~ FIGHTING FANTASY BO
Over 12 million copies sold worldwi !

SS

A PUFFIN BOOK
ISBN 0-14-031603-

U.K. £3.99 |
CAN. $4.99 9301 6¢

5

y

SMOV{ AALS

+f
iy

THE
CITADEL OF CHAOS

‘Deep inside the Cuda of Chacs the dread sorcerer, Bakhus
Dire is pling and scheming the downfall ef the grads
‘he Vale of Wilow. His bats plans are ll, his aveccome
‘emi equiped, an atic sully ium

Semmoned by a desperate pls forkelp, YOU are the Vale ot
‘Willow's ealy hope: Sie pup of te Geand Wizaed of Ye

Cees Eee ee tents ot
‘hich cues at the very hevet of Baave Dis'ssghtonare
(Woekl, Whe! eves tomes eaters twatojou

Steve jacsos fas cated a Geling adventure uf sword and

Soucy for you, with aa elaborate combal yslem, a dazling

ray of iets to ee aed oes chet H cece your galne
losses. All yeu nad isto dic, a poll and an cre

Many cengers fe shosd and your meer & by no means
sertaln. Powedu: adversaries are rangod agnins! sou and
(cs yous only Gare Ll de bela!

‘tess Tachon Ise co-founder (ith Tan Livingstone) of the
Iapaly suoafal Gomes Wockehor cin
Fighting Mutuss Canicions

L THE WARLOCK K DM 1RITTL
RAUILINTLATIN
3.1 tivated CrcHars
J Te RTE 900%
4ST AR URAL LEK
“TY Of THIEVES
NATH ILA SCNCEON
+. ISLAND OF THE LASS KIS
K SCORFION SWS
© CANESNE OF TES NTT
If. HOUSE CF HELL
1). TALSSAN OF DEATH
ID SPACS ASSASGIN
12 FREEWAY HUNTER
14 TEMILE Le TRH
1D THE ORK RIT
1 Seas RMD
17 AVIIROMERT HHH REAR
1A LANE
‘4. LING CF THE DEEP
2). SACK OF THE SA MLR
2. 1C4L OF CHAMPIONS
1... ST COMMANDO
~* MARKS OF MAYHEM
-+. CREATURE OG TiA"OC
. BENE STI NICLIDAARE Cactit

“IRL

2 GOTTUrmirseaia«

27. STAR STRNITZ

2h THANTI ACTA

c¥ MANIK INSEL

Th CALA AGT MALE

TA GAT Jat = 2 RGR

Wo AVIS ti THE ABYSS

Ta mS Les

tA SILALER OF SOULE

ts DACCERS OF DASE ESS

A ARMIES OF TEST!

#7 PORIAL OF Eva.

3 VALU CE THE vSnera:

33. FANCSOF FURY

42. DEAD OF NWA

41 MASTFR OY CILATD

12 ULACRATIN SaPHES:

1% TU Kid iw Ht OCH LOFD

44.1450 N11 IHE SHAD
CAHICEES

a. SILI KALSTALRESS

46. “TATA OF DESTRUCTION

47. Tat CXIMSON TIE

% SOONEUNNER

TANT ROSS 1. THE SEVEN SERFENTS
, PEUTIRD De PLAIe L THE CRIMAN TNS
bal NTASY Tea ldulocy Siete Cecu
mu RV SAY Me pce tonics aoc toe
ih fie OTH WARS A” Fat of, Datoes Betees
Hee Oe Dit S yb Fetes Noe
thn Ascenso. Bachting Forvey Syerets
it Sepleow Ross Moser

tite ontier ets

ts ~t descreeluc jean tae thes avd

trevess Pcaprttans bactigae

Steve Jackson

fiver cringe:

~

ie eddApbhreecue Eead I
caer et eae ae

THMHPILON Ale rags

<
-
.
z
.
.
c
+
=
.
-
>.
.
=
-

AST LIL LCTESTICTIED Lae TreilaPiraitl eae sTrruy

yj) Nlenb

HE CITADEL
F CHAOS

Hintstrated by Russ Nicholson

Puffin Books
Who knows w
in wait i

The Citadel holds a dark and dangerous peril for
anyone foolhardy enough to venture through
its gruesome gates. And yet venture you must,
for your mission lies at the heart of the Citadel,
with the dread sorcerer, Balthus Dire!

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all youneed

to make your journey. YOU decide which route

to take, which monsters to fight, and where to
use your special knowledge of the magic arts.

Cover illustration by Ian Miller

A PUFFIN BOOK
ISBN 0-14-031603-5
II
]

UK, £3.99 |
CAN, $4.99 9 |

PUFFIN BOOKS

TEE
CITADEL OF CHAOS

Deep inside the Citadel of Chaos the dread sorcerer, Balthus
Dire, is plotting and scheming the downfall of the goodfolk of
the Vale of Willow. His battle plans are laid, his awesome
army equipped, and attack is surely imminent.

Summoned by a desperate plea for help, YOU are the Vale of
Willow’s only hope. Star pupil of the Grand Wizard of Yore
and a master of magic, only you can undertake a mission
which strikes at the very heart of Balthus Dire’s nightmare
world. Who knows what monstrous creatures await you
there?

Steve Jackson has created a thrilling adventure of sword and
sorcery for you, with an elaborate combat system, a dazzling
array of spells to use and a score sheet to record your gains
and losses. All you need is two dice, a pencil and an eraser.

Many dangers lie ahead and your success is by no means
certain. Powerful adversaries are ranged against you and
often your only choice is to kill or be killed!

Steve Jackson is the co-founder (with Ian Livingstone) of the
hugely successful Games Workshop chain.
Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks

1. THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP
MOUNTAIN
2. THE CITADEL OF CHAOS
3. THE FOREST OF DOOM
4, STARSHIP TRAVELLER
5, CITY OF THIEVES
6, DEATHTRAP? DUNGEON
7. ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING
8, SCORPION SWAMP
9, CAVERNS OF THE SNOW WITCH
10, HOUSE OF HELL
11. TALISMAN OF DEATH
12. SPACE ASSASSIN
13. FREEWAY FIGHTER
14, TEMPLE OF TERROR
15, THE RINGS OF KETHER
16, SEAS OF BLOOD
17, APPOINTMENT WITH F, E. A. R.
18. REBEL PLANET
19. DEMONS OF THE DEEP
20, SWORD OF THE SAMURAI
21, TRIAL OF CHAMPIONS
22. ROBOT COMMANDO
23. MASKS OF MAYHEM
24, CREATURE OF HAVOC
25, BENEATH NIGHTMARE CASTLE

Steve Jackson's SORCERY!
1. THE SHAMUTANTI HILLS
2, KHARE - CITYPORT OF TRAPS

26, CRYPT OF THE SORCERER

27. STAR STRIDER

28. PHANTOMS OF FEAR

29. MIDNIGHT ROGUE

30. CHASMS OF MALICE

31. BATTLEBLADE WARRIOR

32, SLAVES OF THE ABYSS

33, SKY LORD

34, STEALER OF SOULS

35. DAGGERS OF DARKNESS

36. ARMIES OF DEATH

37. PORTAL OF EVIL

38, VAULT OF THE VAMPIRE

39, FANGS OF FURY

40. DEAD OF NIGHT

41. MASTER OF CHAOS

. BLACK VEIN PROPHECY

, THE KEEP OF THE LICH-LORD

44, LEGEND OF THE SHADOW
WARRIORS

5, SPECTRAL STALKERS

46, TOWER OF DESTRUCTION

47, THE CRIMSON TIDE

48. MOONRUNNER

> =
wo nv

r—
ao wu

3. THE SEVEN SERPENTS
4. THE CROWN OF KINGS

FIGHTING FANTASY - The Introductory Role-Playing Game
THE RIDDLING REAVER - Four thrilling adventures
THE TROLLTOOTH WARS - A Fighting Fantasy Novel

Steve Jackson

bathe id ulbdaehee

wa

a

li

Hitdnbiontes gpptedl

yerteay RET gD

TS a i

THE CITADEL
OF CHAOS

Illustrated by Russ Nicholson

DEMONSTEALER - A Fighting Fantasy Novel

The Advanced Fighting Fantasy System

OUT OF THE PIT: Fighting Fantasy Monsters

TITAN; The Fighting Fantasy World

DUNGEONEER - An Introduction to the World of Role-Playing Games
BLACKSAND!: Advanced Fighting Fantasy

Puffin Books
For Ken, Lilian and Vicki

PENGUIN BOOKS

Published by the Penguin Group
Penguin Books Ltd, 27 Wrights Lane, London W8 5TZ, England
Penguin Books USA Inc., 375 Hudson Street, New York, New York 10014, USA
Penguin Books Australia Ltd, Ringwood, Victoria, Australia
Penguin Books Canada Ltd, 10 Alcorn Avenue, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M4V 3B2
Penguin Books (NZ) Ltd, 182-190 Wairau Road, Auckland 10, New Zealand

Penguin Books Ltd, Registered Offices: Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England

First published 1983
27 29 30 28 26

Copyright © Steve Jackson, 1983
Illustrations copyright © Russ Nicholson, 1983
All rights reserved

Printed in England by Clays Ltd, St Ives ple
Filmset in Palatino

Except in the United States of America, this book is sold subject
to the condition that it shall not, by way of trade or otherwise, be lent,
re-sold, hired out, or otherwise circulated without the publisher's
prior consent in any form of binding or cover other than that in
which it is published and without a similar condition including this
condition being imposed on the subsequent purchaser

CONTENTS

HOW TO FIGHT CREATURES
WITHIN THE CITADEL

7
USING MAGIC

14
MAGIC SPELLS
16
EQUIPMENT
19
ADVENTURE SHEET
20
HISTORY
a2
THE CITADEL OF CHAOS
HOW TO FIGHT CREATURES
WITHIN THE CITADEL

You are the star pupil of the Grand Wizard of Yore,
You have a knowledge of magic which is not per-
fect, but with a little luck will be adequate for this
quest. You also have in your possession a sword
and you are well practised in swordplay. You are
quite fit and you have beer exercising to build up
your stamina.

Asin The Warlock of Firetop Mountate, you must first
determine your own strengths and weaknesses be-
fore sctiing off. Readers of The Warlock of Firetop
Mowntam will be familiar with most of the following
rules, but are advised to skim through them as there
are several points where the two books differ be-
cause of the use of magic in The Citadel of Chaos.

First of all, you must use the dice to determine your
initial SKILL and STAMINA Scores. On pages 20-21
there is an Adventure Sheet which you may use to
record the details of an adventure. On it you will
find boxes for recording your sKitt and STAMINA

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter this
total in the skriu box on the Adventure Sheet,
Roll both dice. Add 12 to the number rolled and
enter this tolalin the sramMImNa box.

There is also a LUCK box, Roll one dic, add 6 to this
number and enter this total in the Luck box.

Fur reasons that will be explained below, sx1tt.,
STAMINA and tucK scores change constantly during
an adventure. You must keep an accurate record of
these scores and for this reason you are advised
vither to write smallin the boxes orto keep an eraser
handy. But never rub out your /mifal scores.
Although 4 you may be awarded additional sx 1,

STAMINA and LUCK points, these totals may never
exceed your initial scores, except on very rare occa-
sions, when you will be instructed on 2 particular

Your sx11.t. score reflects your swordsmanship and
general fighting expertise; the higher the better
Your sTAMINA score reflects your general constitu-
tion, your will to survive, your determination and
overall fitness; the higher your stamINa score, the
longer you will be able to survive. Your LucK score
indicates how naturally lucky a person you are.

Luck — and magic — are facts of life in the fantasy
kingdom you are about to explore.

Battles

You will often come actuss pages in the book which
instruct you to fight a creature of some sort. An

$

option to flee or use mayic spells may he given, butif
not—orif you choose to attack the creature anyway —-
you must resolve the battle as described below.

First record the creature's $kiLL and STAMINA
scores in the first vacant Monster Encounter box an
your Adventure Siwet, The scores for each creature
are given in the book cach time you have an encoun-
ter.

The sequence of combat is then:

t Roll both dice once for the creature. Addits sk1LL
score. This total is the creature's Attack Strenyth.

2 Roll both dice once for yourself. Add the number
rolled to your current SKILL score. This tatal is
your Aftack Strength,

3 Lf your Attack Strength is higher than that of the
creature, you have wounded it. If the creature’s
Attack Strength is higher than yours, it has wound-
ed you. IFboth Alack Strength totals are the same,
vou have avoided each other's blaws — start the
next Affack Round from step 1 above.

4 If you have wounded the creature, subtract 2

points from its sTasiNa score. You may use your

LUCK here to do additional damage (see over).

If the creature has wounded you, subtract 2

points from your Own STAMINA score. Again you

may use LUCK al this stage (see over).

Make the appropriate adjustments to either the

creature's or your OWN STAMINA Scores (and your

LUCK score if you used Luck —see over}.

7 Begin the next Allack Rourtd by returning to your
current sxti.J. score and then repeat steps 1-6.

‘wt

OV

»
This sequence continues until the STAMINA score
of cither you or the creature you are fighting has
been reduced to zero (death).

Escaping

On some pages you may be given the option of
running away from a battle should things be going
badly for you. However, if you do run away, the
creature automatically gets in one wound on you
(subtract 2 STAMINA points) as you flee. Such is the
price of cowardice. Note thal you may use LUCK on
this wound in the normal way (see below). You may
only Escape if that option is specifically given to you
on the paye.

Fighting More Than One Creature

If vou came across more than onc creature in 2
particular encounter, the instructions on that page
will tell you haw to handle the battle. Sometimes
you will treat them as a single monster, sometimes
you will fight each one in at

Luck

At various times during your adventure, cither in
battles or when you come across situations in which

you could either be lucky or unlucky (details of

these are given on the pages themselves), you may
call on your luck to make the outcome more layour-
able. Bul beware! Using luck isa risky business and

ai?)

if you are unlucky, the results could be disastrous.

The procedure for using your luck is as ons roll
two dice. If the number rolled is eyual te ur less than
Four current LUCK score, you have been ay and
the result pill go in your favour. If the number
rolied is Aigher than your current LUCK score, you
have been rrlucky and you will be penalized.

This procedure is known as Testing your Luck, Each
time vou Test yeur Luck, you must subtract one point
from your current tuck score. [hus you will sawn
realize that the more you rely on your luck, the more
risky this will become.

Listing Luck in Baliles

On certain pages of the book you will be told to Tes!
vour Luck and will be told the consequences of your
beins lucky or unlucky. However, in battles, you
alwars have the opfion of using your luck either to
inflict a more senious wound ona creature you have
just wounded, or lo minimize the effects of awound
the creature has just inflicted on you.

if you havejust wounded the creahyre, you may Test

yorr Luck as described above. If you are lucky, you

have inflicted a severe wound and may subtract an
exira 2 points from the crealure’s STAMINA score,
However, if you are unjucky, the wound was a mere
graze and you must restore 1 point to the creature's
Stamina (Le. instead of scoring the normal 2 paints
ol damage. you have now scored only 1).

it the creature has just wounded you, you may Tes?

11
your Luck to try to minimize the wound. If you are
becky, you have managed to avoid the full damage of
the blow. Restore 4 point of sta mina (ie. mstead of
doing 2 points of damage it has done only 1). If you
are wulucky, you have taken a more serious blow-
Subtract 1 extra STAMINA point.

Remember that you must subtract 1 point from your
OWN LUCK score each time you Test your Lick.

Restoring Skill, Stamina and Luck
Skill

Your SKILL score will not change much during your
adventure. Occasionally, a page may give imstruc-
tions to increase or decrease your SKILL score. A
Magic Weapon may increase your Skiit, but re-
member that only one weapon can be used aia time!
You cannot claim 2 skiti bonuses for carming fro
Mavic Swords. Your SKILL score can never exceed
its Tie! value unless specifically mstructed. You
may only restore your SKILL score by using a Skill
Spell (see over}.
Siamuna

Your STAMINA score will change a lot during your
adventure as you fight creatures and injure your-
self. You may only restore your STAMINA score by
casting a Stamina Spell (see vsinG MAGIC}. You are
well advised to ensure that you include several

12

Stamina Spells in your original choice of spells.
Remember also that your STAMINA score May never
exceed its Initial value.

Luck

Additions fo your LUCK score may be awarded
through the adventure when you have been par-
ticularly lucky. Details are given on the pages of the
book. Remember that, as with sKILL and STAMINA
scores, your LUCK score may never exceed ils Jritial
value. You may otherwise only restore your LUCK
score by using a Luck Spell (see UsING MAGIC).

AS
USING MAGIC

In addition to SKILL, STAMINA and LUCK scores,
you must also determine your MACIC score in a
similar way.

Roll two dice. Add 6 to the number rolled and enter
this totalin the wactc box on your Adreniure Sheet.

Your mMaAGiIc score determines how many Magic
Spells you may use during your quest. These spells
may be chosen fram the list following this section.
After considering the spells available, enter your
choices in the Magic Spells box on your Adventure

loaned
Shiwet.

lf, for example, you roll a 4 and a 3, your MAGIC
score sill be 13 fie. 4+3—-6}, which means you will
be able to use thirteen spells during your adventure.
Fram the list of spells given below, you may choose
thirteen spells as you please. Perhaps you would
like to take three Stamina Spells, five E.S.P. Spells
and five Fire Spells—or maybe you would preler one
vach of the twelve spelis plus an extra Creature
Copy Spell. The choice is yours.

Each lime, during the adventure, that you use a
spell, you must cross it off your list (even if itis not
effective), If you have taken more than one of any
spell, you must reduce the remainder available by
one each time vou use il. You will sometimes be

given the option lo use spells and find that vou have
not sot them with you, or have used them all up. In
these cases, you may not choose these options.

As you will have no idea of the dangers lurking
within the Citadel the first time you enter, you will
no doubt choose spells which will not be as effective
as you would like. But on subsequent adventures,
you will choose your spells more wisely. Also, don't
worry if your MAGIC score is low, Even the lowest
possible score will provide you with enough spells
to complete your quest if you make the nght choices
and are blessed with a little luck!

15
MAGIC SPELLS

Creature Copy

This spell will allow you to conjure up an exact
duplicate of any creature you are fighting. The
duplicate will have the same SKILL and STAMINA
scores, and the same powers, as its original. But the
duplicate will be under the control of your will and
you may, for example, instruct it to attack the origi
nal creature and then sit back and watch the battle!

ESF

With this spell you will be able to tune in to psychic
wavelengths. It may help you to read a Geature’s
mind or may tell you what is behind a locked door.
However, it is sometimes prone to give misleading
information if more than one psychic source is
close to another.

Fire
Every creature is afraid of fire, and this spell allows
you to conjure up fire at will. You may cause a small
explosion on the ground which will burn for several
seconds or you may create a wall of fire to keep
creatures at bay.

Fool's Gold

‘This spell will turn ordinary rock into a pile of what
appears to be gold. However, the spell is merely a
form of illusion spell — although more reliable than

the Hlusion Spell below — and the pile of gold will
soon tum back te rock.

Hiusior

This is a powerful spell, but one which is a little
unreliable. Through this spell you may create a
convincing illusion (e.g. that you have turned into a
snake, or that the floor is covered in hot caals) with
which to fool a creature. The spell will immediately
de cancelled if anything happens which dispels the
ihasion (e.g. vou convince a creature that you have
turned into a snake and then promptly crack il over
the head with your sword!}. It is most effective
against intelligent creatures,

Levilatior

You may cast this spell onto objects, opponents and
even yourself. It frees its receiver from the eftects of
gravity and as such will cause that receiver to float
freely in the air, under your control.

Leck

This spell, along with the Skilland Stamina spells, is
special in that it may be cast atany Hime during your
adventure, except in a battle. You need not wait for
2 choice to appear on the page- Once cast, it will
restore your Luck score by half your Initid Luck
score fif your fmifiad LUCK is an odd number, deduct
the extra 44). This spell will never lake your LUCK
score over its [nilial level. Thus if you cast two Luck
Spells together, your tUcK score will only be res
tored to its Initial level.
Shiciding

Casting this spell creates an invisible shield in front
of you which will protect you from physical objects,
cp. arrows, swords or creatures. The shield is not
effective against magic and, of course, if nothing
outside it can touch you, you will not be able to
touch anything outside it.
Stall

This spell will replenish your sxiLt score by half its
Iniiial valuc, and may be cast at any time during
your adventure, except ina battle. For full rules, see

the Luck Spell above. The Skill Spell works in exact-
ly the same way.

Stamina

This spell vill replenish your STAMINA score by halt
its Initiz! value and may be cast atany time, exceptin
a battle. See the Luck Spell for full rules.

Siren git

This spell has the effect oi increasing your strength
greatly and is very useful when battling strong
creatures. However, it must be exercised with cau-
tion as it is difficull to control your own strength
when it is suddenly increased by so much!

\icakniess

Strong creatures are reduced by this spell to miser-
able weaklings. It is not sucresstul against all crea-
tures but when effective, those creatures become
puny and much less of a challenge in a battle.

18

EQUIPMENT

You will start your adventure with a bare minimum
of equipment. You are armed with a sword and
dressed in leather armour. You carry a lantern to
light your way, and a backpack tv hold any treasure
or artefacts you may find on your way, Be sure to
record all your finds in the Equipment box on your
Adventure Sheet. When these are used in any particu-
lar encounter, the story will tell vou whether that
item is destroyed or left behind. I it is lost in this
way, you must cross it off your hst of Equipment
and rou may not use it later in the adventure.
“LADVENTURE SHEET

STAMINA

freee
|
|

{|
es

] [eos

as

MAGIC SPFIIS| ME OF

UIPMENT

HISTORY

The lawtul goodfolk of the Vale of Willow have lived
for some eight years in awe and fear of the demi-
sorcerer Balthus Dire. In awe — since his power is
truly awesome — and in fear ever since word leaked
from his domain that his ambitiaus plans of con-
quest were to commence with the Vale itself.

A faithful half-elf sent on a spying mission to the
Black Tower came galloping back to the Vale three
days ago with a frantic warning. From within the
caverns of Craggen Rock, Balthus Dire had re-
cruited an army of Chaotics and was preparing
them to attack the Vale within the week.

The good King Salamon was a man of action. Mes-
sengers were sent throughout the Vale that day to
prepare defences and to summon the menfolk to
action. Riders had also been sent to the Great Forest
af Youre to warn the hali-elves that lived there and to
make an appeal for allied forces. King Selamon was
also a wise man. He knew well thai the news would
inevitably reach the Grand Wizard of Yore. a white
sorcerer of great power, who lived deep within the
forest. The wizard was old, and would not last
throush a battle of this magnitude- But he schooled
a Number of young magicians, and perhaps one of
his students in the magic arts with courage and
ambition would aid the king and his subjects . . .

You are the star pupil of the Grand Wizard of Yore.
Ile has been a difficult Master and your own impa-
ticnee has often got the delter of you. Perhaps a little
too headstrong, you left immediately fat Salamen’s
court. The king welcomed you enthusiastically and
explained his plan. The battle could be avoided
without bleodshed if Balthus were to be assassin-
ated before his army could be amassed.

lhe mission ahead of you is extremely perilous.
Balthus Dire is surrounded, in his Citadel, by a
multitude of appalling creatures. Although Magicis
your strongest weapon, there will be mes when
you must rely on your sword to survive.

King Salamon has briefed you on your mission and
warned you of the dangers that lie ahead. One way
through the Citadel is the best for you tu take. If you
discover it, you will be successful with a minimum
of personal risk, It may take you several trips to find
the easiest way through.

You leave the Vale of Willow on the long hike to the
Black Tower. At the foot of the hill of Craggen Rock,
you can see its outline against the dark sky . _ .

Now turn over.

23
fey

, es Sr ay ee
1 You fecr ncuiliad qruntazes as wo approsicn me 1200 WES See
creatures sigp forsacnl.

1
Thesun sets. As twilight turns to darkness you start
your climb up the hilltowards that forbiddiny shape
silhouetted against the night sky. The Ciladelis less
than an hour's climb.

Some distance from its walls you stop to rest — a
mistake, as it seems 2 fearful spectre from which
there is no escape. The hairs on your neck prickle as
you look towards it,

Bul vou are ashamed of your fears. With grim
resolve you march onwards towards the main gate,
where yuu know guards will be waiting. You con-
sider your options. You have already thought about
claiming to be a herbalist, come to treat a guard with
@ fever. You could pose as a trader or an artisan —
perhaps a carpenter. You could even be a nomad,
seeking shelter for the night.

As you ponder the possibilities, and the yarns you
will have to spin to the guards, you reach the main
trail leading up to the sates. Two lanterns bum on
either side of the portcullis.

You hear muiiled gruntings as vou approach, and
tivo mus-shapen creatures step forward. On the left
stands an ugly creature with the head of a doy: and
the body ofa vreat ape, flexinyits powerful arms. Its
opposite number is indeed its opposite, with the
head of an ape on the body ofa large dog, This latter
guard approaches vou on all fours. [t stops some
2-3
metres in front of you, raises itself on ifs hind legs
and addresses you.

Which story will you opt for?

Will vou pose as a herbalist? Turn to 261
Will you claim to bea

tradesman? Turn to 230
Will you ask for shelter for

the mpht? Turn to 20

2

A little way up the passage there is a doonvay on the
right-hand side, This door has some strange scrawl
inis on il, but they are ina language that you dv nol
understand. Will vou iry opening the door (tum to
142}, or will you continue up the passage (furn to
343)?

3

What will you offer them:
A Pocket Myriad? Tum to 327
A Spider ina Jar? lurn t 59
A handful of Small Berries? Turn to 236

If vou cannot offer any of these, you can either draw
your sword {lum to 286) or head for the far door
{turn Lo 366}-

4-6

4

You conjure up a fireball and send it flying at the
creature’s face. You watch in dismay as it bounces
off with no effect! You may either cast a quick
Creature Copy Spell (turn to ago), or draw your
sword (turn to 303).

oe -—= Se

5

You try the handle of the door and it turns, opening
imto another halbvay. Some distance along, the
passageway turns to the right and ends shortly in
another door, On this door is a sign, which reads
‘Please Ring for Butler’. A rope —evidently the bell—-
hangs br the door. Will you ring as instructed (turn
to 40), or try the door handle (turn to 361)?

The path runs alongside the river for several metres
and then cuts back into the rock. You follow the
path for some ime. Turn to 367.

7-9

7
The coor is locked. You may try lo break it down by
charging it with your shoulder (turn to 268), or you
may cast a Strength Spell on yourself and try to
wrench the door off its hinges (turn to 176).

She watches in astonishment as an exact duplicate
of herself appears between the lwo of you. She
hacks off a little and you instruct your creation to
attack. But as they get dose to one another, a
strange thing happens. They seem unable lo get
close to one another, like hyo spinning tops, and
keep bouncing apart. But your own copy has atleast
forced the creature back some distance away from
you, allowing you to min to the Citadel's main
entrance. Tum to 218,

Under your Ilusion Spell, the crowd of onlookers
see you start playing the game. You watch lor a
couple of rounds and the tension mounts. You
decide it prudent to leave-the room without wasting
more time. [um to 32-

TO—-12

To

You feel around in the rock and eventually find a
small lever. As you pull this lever, the rock face
crumbles slightly and a narrow opening appears.
You climb through this opening and find yourself in
2 passageway. Down the passageway Lo the left you
can see 2 doorand decide toinvestigate. Turn to 249.

= Se
it
You may use either:
A Fool's Gold Spell Turn to 36
A Creature Copy Spell Turn to 262
An E.S.P. Spell Turn ta 128
A Weakness Spell Turn to 152

if you have none of these, you will have to draw
vour sword and ficht (turn &) 16}.

12
Hie stands in front of you breathing heavily, Tis .
Spell was evidently quite exhausting. You may use
this as an opportunity tu:

Nip over to the armoury

cupboard
Spring under the table
Rush to the window

Turn ta 274
Turn to 335
Turn to 78
33-15
13

The handle tums and you open the door inte
another room, where there is plenty of activily.
Three ugh; old women with long noses and chins
are scooting around the room — which seems to bea
kitchen of some sort — taking various ingredients
trom the cupboards and adding them toabrothina
large kettle. Therets a jomtof meat roasting ona spit
under a large chimney. As you look more carelully
you can tell that the meat is not, in fact, an animal,
but a whole Dwarf, turning black in the fire. One of
the women glances af you and says, “Ah, you must
be the new servant... or are you the next meal?’
whereupon they all begin to cackle and shrek with
laughter, Will vou let them believe you are the new
Servant they are expecting (turn & 302), or do you
want to investigate the room further (turn to 215)?

14

fhe shadow of the wall makes it very difficult to see.
\ loose stone slips and vou lose your balance,
teeterme on the edge of what you realize must he a
deep pit. Test your Luck. Le youare Lucky, you regain
your footing and step back to safety. Yoni can then
walk round the pit and continue (Lurn lo 79). Ll you
are Unlucky, you fallin (tum to 190).

a5
ee es eee The dagger is indeed a work of art and was un-
13 Thrye 1igty oid snen Tete ONS SOS Se eee 3 Reels reek sir on 4 Toes
arownd the roaim coubtedly worth a fair price. The blade is made ut

shiny metal and the hilt is a peculiar green leather,
with inlaid stones. You read an inscription which
16-17

tells you that itis an enchanted throwing dagger
swhich never misses, In a future combat, you may
use this dagger to throw at an opponent. It will
automatically inflict 2 STAMINA points of damage
without the need to roll for Attack Sirengih, But you
may use it only once, You pul the dagyer into your
bell and set off towards the Citadel. Turn to 245-

16
Resalve your Dattle:

GARK

After four Attack Kounds, you may Escape through
one of the doors at the far end of the room (tum t
gg). If you wish to continue the battle, do so and

turn to 180 if you win.

SKILL 7 STAMINA 11

17

All manner of strange foodstuffs are in the cup-
boards, Fyeballs, tongues, small lizards, vials of
liquids, herbs and berries of all different shapes and
sizes, One particular bottle, of a translucent green
liquid, catches your eye. You have no lime to read
the label there and then, so you put it quickly into
your pocket while they are not looking. You tell
them that their kitchen appears to be in order and
leave through the door al the farend of the kitchen-
Turn ta 93.

18-19

18

He points to 2 section just above the floor, which
you peruse. Eventually you choose one volume and
settic down to read through it. Balthus Dire is
apparently third in a line of Sorcerer-Warlords
ruling over the Black Tower and the Kingdom of
Craggen Rock. He rose to power after the death of
his father, Craggen Dire, some years ago. The Dires
have been masters of Black Sorcery for generations,
but their strength and power last during the night-
ime only; sunlight is like a poison to them. Shortly
after his father’s death, Balthus Dire married the
Lady Lucretia, herself a Black Sorceress, and since
that time they have ruled together over the King-
dom of Craggen Rock. As you finish the book, you
notice that the libranan is holding his hand tv his
ear, apparently listening to something. [Te glances
up at you, guizzically. You may either look for
another useful book which may aid you on your
quest (turn to 84), or attempt to leave the library
through the door behind him (tur te 31).

19
The staircase creaks as your foot falls on it. You try
to ascend as quietly as possible, but the old timbers
groan under vour weight. Suddenly one of the stairs
clicks as if to tigger a switch of some kind. To your
surprise, all of the stairs flick downwards! You are
now standing on a smooth, steep slope! Try as you
might, vou cannot keep your balance and you fall
Gown the slope, tumbling head-over-heels. If you
20-21

wish to use a Levitation Spell, you may fly up and
out of danger, to land on the balcany above (furn to
363); otherwise turn to 254-

20

the Ape-Dog tells you thal no one is allowed into
the Black ‘lower after dark — vou will have to look
elsewhere for shelter. You may either resign your
self to a fight (turn to 288). Or you may pick up 4
stone and cast a Fool’s Gold Spell on il, offering
them a nugget of suld as a bribe to let you in (furn to
96). Deduct the Fool's Gold Spell from your Spells if
you use it.

21

‘What brings you to these parts?’ she demands. You
tell her your story, carefully avoiding telling her of
your real mission, She advises thatif you know any
ma wic, you should flee from this place. The crea-
lures vou have mel so far do not compare with those
you will come across within the Citadel Tower itself.
She tells vou you will never meet the master without
finding: the Fleece first, and bids you luck on your
mission. Add 2 Luck points for the information you
have learned and set off onwards. Turn to 6-

22-24

You open the door and step out into a long, dark
corridor. furn to 188.

=
You open the door and see out into a passageway
which continues straight onwards lor some time. It
=wings to the left, then back to the night, until you
can seean archway ahead that opens outinte a large
room. You head forwards into the room. Turn to

169.

24

You taste the wine and, as you are considering ils
flavour, you hear a clinking noise, You turn to loak
in the direction that the noise is coming from ancl
vou are horrified to see that the bottles in the racks
are moving on their own. One buttle flies from its
place and hurtles towards you, narrowly missing
your head and smashing on the wall behind you.
Another ties at vou, then another, until you are
seing pelted by bottles fram all directions. You
realize that your unly defence ts to use a Shielding
Spell. Cast this Spell if vou can and turn to 372. If
you cannot cast this Spell; turn tu 219.
ie he ed

25 Tite trenciz is Aap andes te Funny Bins ts OTS ee,

257-27

25
The door opens, allowing you into a large, circular
room. You scratch your head quizzically. In the
centre of the room you can see a small ‘island’,
surrounded by a wide trench, on which stands a
chest, locked with metal fastenings. The trench is
too wide ta jump and is very deep. Just inside the
doorisa length of rope. A doorleads from the room,
opposite the door you came in through. Will vou:

Ignore the box and walk round
the trench to the other door?
Cast a Strength Spell and leap

Turn & 206

across the trench? Turn to 133
Pick up the rope and formulate

a plan? Turn to 239

26
Will vou casé:

A Tire Spell? Turn to 87
A Weakness Spell? Turn te 345
A Creature Copy Spell? Turn to 104

If you have none of these, return to 304 and chagse
again.

27
As you hold out the Gold Pieces, the three creatures
stop in their tracks. They gasp as they look at your
coins. An invisible hand snatches them from you
and lays them onthe ground. They lookatyouanda
voice demands more. You pull out ail your Gold
24-29

Pieces and throw them into the centre of the room.
A voice rings out: "Well, stranger, you are indeed
welcome here in the house of the MIKS. We thank
you for your gift. If you are heading on, take the
door ahead of you, but beware of the Ganjees. We
wish you luck with yourjourney~ You may add one
Luck point for the Miks’ good wishes, and leave
throurh the door ahead of you. Turn to 206-

You cast the Spell and conjure up a ball of ire in
- your hands. They stop in their tracks and watch you
carefully. You toss the ball towards them and they

shrick in fright, rolling away in terror irom your”

obvious powers. While you still have control over
the Spell, you create three smaller firebalis and pitch
one at each of them. They howl and scatter, rolling
up the corridor away {rom you. You may now
proceed up the left-hand passageway {lum to 243),
ar up the right hand passageway (turn to 2}.

2
Cautiously, you approach the little man. As you get
close, a single eye opens and looks you straight in

|

30-32
the face. A wide grin spreads between the creature's
cars and he disappears! “Good mormin’ to yer!” says
2 chirpy little voice behind vou, and you swivel
round to see him standing there, sill erinniny. ‘I’m
O’Seamus, the Leprechaun! he chuckles, and holds
his hand out to you. He seems friendly enough —
will you shake his hand and try to betriend him
(turn to 272), or draw your sword (turn ta 131}?

30
The beast is immensely powerful. You draw your
sword and the battle starts:

CTAWBEASI

When you have inflicted your fourth hit on the
creature, turn to 241.

SKILL Q STAMINA 14

31

You leave the room through the door at the far end,
which opens into a short’ passageway ending at
2 large wooden door. The handle on this door turns,
letting you into a large chamber. Turn to 169.

32

Stepping over the bodies, you approach the gate
and call for the gatekeeper, hiding in the shadows as
he approaches. He sees the bodies and comes out to
investigate, whereupon you nip inside the gate and
lock him out. Turn to 251.
33
As you try to rise, the Orc and the Goblin grab you
and hold you down, whilethe Dwarl advances with
his club. Turn to 213.

34
The key turns and, removing the lock, you open the
box to find another key, this time cut in a glowing
green metal. Will you try this new key on the third
box (turn to 89} or leave the reom with the two keys
(turn bo 237)?

You concentrate on your Illusion. You can either
convince him that he is being attacked by an cnemy
{turn lo 364}, or make yourself disappearin the hope
that he will come looking for you {turn to 246).

36

‘Pah’ says the Gark, ‘Ido not fool thateasily. Throw
your lumps of brass away.’ It dawns on the creature
that, if you are offering a bribe, you must be an
intruder which — for a Gark — is quite a stunning
piece of logical thinking! It slaps you hard with its
great hand, knocking you unconscious onto the
floor. The last words you hear before you pass out
are the proud Gark’s: ‘Into the jail for this one!’ Turn
ta 234. And don’t forget to deduct your wasted
Fool's Gold Spell.

37-38
37

You draw out the skin and the creuture hisses
loudly. All its heads retreat and it remains sul,
watching you. There is a door on the far side of the
room and you slowly make your way towards it.
Halfivay across the room, a head darts out and
snatches the fleece from your hands. Bul instead of
attacking you, the Hydra slinks back into a corner.
You move on to the door cautiously. Lurn to 229,

38
The door opens into a short passageway which is
paved with small stones. A short distance further
on, an omately carved door marks the end of the
passageway. But just before the door, aside passage
leads off to the left. You approach the door, listen-
ing forany signs of life inside. As your hand touches
the handle, a voice says: “Do not knock; just enter!’
from inside. Will you enter the room as instructed
(tum to 132) or will you decide against this room and
take the passage leading off to the left (turn to 306)?

=. ; 2 Med Tal o. 4 i: (iae™ Fs iv
$0.4 isnchhrched, eas-shapen creaizre wre es tertic, SEE TAT ea
ind teticrad clothes stands i7 trun! of yor

———

39-40
39

You take out the Jar and, as you do so, the Ganjees
gasp. “Racknee!’ says a voice. ‘You haye returned!’
And with those words, an invisible hand snatches
the jar from you, lays it onto the ground anc opens
the lid. The Spider-Man turns towards vou and
growls a litte growl. You draw your sword as the
beast scuttles towards you angrily. You must fight
the creature:

SPIDER-MAN SKILL 7 STAMINA 5

As soon as the Spider-Man gets its first hit on you,
turn to 208. Lf you win without it wounding you,
you must now face the Ganjees with your sword,
Turn to 248.

40

After several moments the door opens slowly anda
hunchbacked, mis-shapen creature with rotten
tecth, ragyed hair and tattered clothes stands in
front of you. ‘Yes, sir (heh, heh} — what can 1] do for
vou?’ growls the half-human creature. “I am ex-
pected,” you reply, and walk past him through the
door with confidence. Fle ts a little bewildered by
your manner and stammers, nol knowing whether
to challenge you ornpt. “Which way to the recepton
room?’ you demand. He squints at you through one
eye and motions towards a left fork in the passage-
war 2 short distance ahead. Will you believe him
and take the left fork (turn te 243), ordo vou distnist
this shifty creature and take the right fork (turn
tu 2)?
qi-—42
41

{he three women shulfle together in a huddle and
mutter under their breath to one another. With a
little chuckle, one of them turns to you and says,
‘Yes, stranger, we'll help you on your way’ She
fixes you with ice-cold eyes, and pomts her linger
first at you, then at the wall behind her. The room
goes dark, you feel a rushing sensation and, when
the darkness clears, you are in another room. Tum
fo 257-

a -
She blinks and the jets of fire disappear. What will

you offer her?

A Silver Mirror? Turn to 138
A airbrush? Tum fo gi
A Jar containing a Spider-Man? Turn to 223

If you have none vf these, you must make some
excuse about losing your gift and go back onto the
balcony where you may take cither the middle door
(turn to 64) or the far door {turn to 304).

ce a es

43-45

43
As you cast the spell, his grip loosens. Gradually his
strength ebbs until eventually he releases his grip
and slumps back, panting, on the ground. Tose 1
more STAMINA point as you nurse your wounded
arm, and cross the Weakness Spell off your list. You
can continue on your way. Turn tu 14.

+H
the room stops shaking and you drop to the
ground. The armoury cupboard is lockecl, bul you
may smash the lock. Or you may take off your
backpack and look for a weapon te use. Which will
you do:

Choose a weapon from the

cupboard? Turn tu 353
Take an artefact from your
backpack? Turn to 277

If vour stomach will bear it, you may try:

Some of the meat hanging up ‘Turn to 166

A piece of fruit Turn to 313
A slice of cheese ‘Turn to 253
A loaf of bread Turn t3 97

46-48
46

With a motion, you fling your hand forward and
point to the floor beneath the sorcerer. Smoke and
flames burst fram the graund. Balthus Dire jumps
back a little, startled, then closes his eyes to concen-
trate. As they open, you can see a fire burning
within the pupils themselves, and he steps forward
into the flame you created. Taking 2 handful of
flaming rubble, he throw’s this at you. Will you duck
ta avoid it (har tv 195), or jump out of the way (turn
10 74)?

47

i

What Spell will you use:

Creature Copy Spell? _Tumtos
Tiusion Spell? fur to 173
Levitation Spell? Turn to 259

If you have none of these spells, you will have to
retreat towards the monument in the centre of the
courtyard and hide from her (turn to 209).

‘Never!’ screams the sorcerer, spinning round from
the shadows to face you. This time it is vou who

49-52
feels the quake of fear as you see that he has also
changed himself — but inte a creature which mit
cause a Fire Demon to stop in its tracks, Balthus
Dire’s face has become ugly and wiich-like and his
hair now seethes and squirms with small, hissing
snakes. Will you retreat from this creature [turn to
232) or leap forward with your Trident (him to 199)?

49
The creature pazes at you quizzically as tf it is
uncertain about you. Turn to 255.

51

You slash about madly with vour sword but cannot
hit the creature. Either it is extremely quick, or it has
ne solid body for you fo hit! Its teeth are now tearing
at your flesh and you can feel blood on your leg. You
will have to protect yourself with your magic, or face
certain death from this unseen creature. Will you
casta Strength Spell (turn to 301), a Weakness Spell
(curn to 159}, or, if you cannot or will not cast either,
turn to 280.
‘= >.

- .

> ’

t. : ae '
YY: x
Re.

at:

BP

Naan (drs

a : HID
i “=
{ f. =
ex
if. i
‘ é:
ey —"
' \ |
& fk iv Se J)
pe

52 Yur cw hea! iaveister and merriment on the sthrr sade of the aour-

52-53
52

The door opens and you stride onwards, slaruning
it shut behind you. A short distance ahead, you
reach a three-way junction, where you lake the
northwards passage. This continues for several
mctres leeding to another door. You can hear laugh-
terand merriment on the otherside, Cautiously you
open the door into a large room where a party of a
deven or so creatures, of all shapes, sizes and
colours, are playing games. As rou step into the
mam, a roice shouts, ‘Look, this must be Glaz-Duz-
Fut! whereupon they all welcome you, inviting you
tu jom the fun. Evidently they are expecting some
one and have mistaken vou for their missing guest.
Will vou play along and fain them (turn lo 385}, or
will you tell them they are mistaken and try te make
your wey over te the door on the other side of the
room {turn to 227)?

t——— fy

53
‘What do I want with vour berries?’ she laughs. ‘My
appetite died with my bode!’ And as you lock closer
you can see that she too is nothing buta Ghost. She
floats across tn the wir towards you. [umm to 194,

54-56

54
You seatch through your backpack. What will you

pull out:

A Jar of Ointment? Tum to 287
‘A Pocket Myriad? Turn to 160
Gold Pieces? Turn to 27

if you have none of these, you will have to return to
104 and choose again.

: aes as eI ene

55
You follow the passageway for some time. It turns
to the right and eventually reaches a dead end. You
may either return to the fork and take the other
passage (turn te 249) or you may look for secret
passages (Lurn to 10}-

The BLACK ELF approaching you is skinny and
ragged, He asks whether you are a guest or an
adventurer. You tell] him vou are a guest, come
down to sample the sine he keeps in his famous
Wine Cellar. With a certain pride, he shows you the

57-58
vintage bottles he keeps for his Lord, the Demi
Sorcerer. Some of them, he claims, have magical
powers. [Te offers to let you sample the wine. Will
you Lry a sample of:

The Red Wine? Turn ter 120
the White Wine? ‘Turn lo 163
The Rose Wine? Turn tc 334
Decline his offer and make
your way onwards? Tum ta 95
is = ee — =~ = et

57
Test your Luck. lf you are beers turn to 150. Lt you
are Unlucky, harn to 2

As you enter, the cenine flutter and squeak ex-
atedly, then fly past you, throusth the dopr and out

into the night. ‘You are now alone with the chalices,
Will vou risk taking a drink? IF sa, wall you choose:

The clear liquid? lurn to 298
The red liquid? Turn ki) 267
The milky liquid? ‘Turn lo g2

Or wall you leave and head for the Citadel (turn Lo
156)?
59-61

5
They are revolled by your gift and run over to the
comer of the room, hiding under the beds. Same-
what puzzled by their behaviour, you leave the Jar
on the floor and make for the door on the far side of
the room, Turn to 140.

The creatures become suspicious as you press them
for information, The Dwarf springs to his feet bran-
dishing a wooden dub, while the Goblin and the
Ore grab ssvords and glare at you. The Goblin‘s
mistress shrieks and steps back several paces as the
others advance lowards you. You will have to light
them. You may use a Magic Spell:

Turn to 33
‘Turn fo 295

Levitation Spell
Mlusion Spell

Or youmay draw yourswordand fight (turn to213)-

% -=— oe

61
You advance with your sword. The Devlin stops
_.. then springs at you! You slash with your sword
but cannot harm the creature, which is now on top

62-63

of vou. Its flaming body is burming your flesh and
you are inagony. Siillithoids onand you pass outin
shock. You fall te the ground never to wake ayuin as
the Devlin makes sure that your body is scorched
beyond recovery. You will, after all, be the next
meal for the creatures of the Black Tower - . -

With the Gargoyle out of action, you decide to
imvestigate the box in the creature's pedestal. Fest
your Luck. you are Lucky, you may take the pauch
of 10 Gold Pieces locked inside. If you are Unlucky,
you do not manage to open the box. Leave the room
oy turning to 240.

63
You tum to the index and look up the reference.
Turning to the correct page. vou are dismayed Lo
find that the section has been ripped out of the book!
You may cither turn to the Calacorms (turn to 263), of
look up the Miks (turn to 135).

6y Jewiking wp ata quizccally are three smi cramtres.

64-66

64

You listen at the door and can hear squeaky voices
laughing and squabbling. You try the handle and
the door opens. Inside is a brightly coloured room.
A few smail beds are in one corner, and strewn
about the floor are small mannequins of various
brutish creatures. Along the right-hand wall is a
large box and just beyond the box is a door. In the
centre of the floor, and loaking up at you quizzical-
ly, are three small creatures. They are human-like
bul have green skin, pointed ears and slil-like eyes.
What will vour approach be? Will vou:

Draw your sword and prepare

te fight them? Turn tv 286
Look in your pack for something
to offer them? Turn to 3
Walk confidently acrass the
room to the tar door? Turn to 366
65

You kneel before him and bow- Tle is indeed your
master now. You have failed in your mission,

6h
They look af each other and chatter. One steps
fomnvard and halds aut a small cube which louks as
though it has been made of some kind of bread or
cake. At his request, you pop itinto your mouth and
chewit, As vou swallow it, you teel suddenly strong
again. Restore your $xt1i. and STAMINA scures Lo
their Initia! levels and add 1 tuck point. You thank
67-69

him for the food, thank them all for their company
and head for the doors. Turn to 270.

60

You begin your fight with the creature. Your first
blow is lucky and severs one of its six heads. The
other five strike at you and, to your horror, two
more heads graw where the other anc died! One of
the heads bites deepinto your arm. Lose 4 STAMINA
points. Your sword is obviously going to be of little
use. Will you use a Creature Copy Spell (turn to143)
or something from your backpack (turn to 226)?

68
‘Which wauld | take, eh?’ he muses. ‘Let's see. . -1
would not take the one two doors ta the left of the
copper-handled one, nar the door to the nght af the
bronze-handled one.’ Which one will you choose:

The brass-handled daor? Turn to 207
The copper-handled door? Turn to 22
The bronze-handled one? Turn to 354

69

The creature is not very talkative, bui you do dis-
cover that you are in the dungeons beneath the
Black Tower and you will probably never be re-
leased, unless you are given to the Ganjees for
sport. When you question him about Balthus Dire,
he goes silent. You had better try a Spell to get you
out of this prison. Turn to 193.

70-72

You fly up and away from his lunges but he stands
his ground and there is no way for you to fly around
Sim to the door. Eventually the Spell wears off and
you must face him once again. Will you:

Use a Weakness Spell? Furn to 307
Use a Strength Spell? Turn to 264
Draw your sword? Turn to 325

71

You draw your sword and hack at the tentacle. The
Sntacle will not fight back as willa normal creature,
Sut instead is trying to drag you into a large hole in
she ground which is opening around its base. You
do not need to roll for the tentacle, asithas an Attack
Strength of 15 and a stamina score of 2. Throw for
combat in the normal way, but if your own Attack
Strenglt comes to less than 15, da not subtract any
Soints from your own STAMINA. However, if you
éo not defeat the creature within 3 Attack Rourus, it
secceeds in dragging you into ils lair and your
edventure is over. If you do defeat it, you can peel
Se tentacle off your leg and proceed to the main
entrance to the Black Tower. Tum to 228-

72
Luck is not with vou. Your first glance at the ser-
pent-headed creature was enough to seal your fate.
You cry out in anguish as you feel your joints begin
® seize and your limbs become heavy and uncon-
73775

trollable. As the Gorgon’s stony stare takes effect,
you fight for balance — but lose it and crash t the
floor. Your petrified body cracks on impact and you
now lic in several preces ‘before Balthus Dire.

You have failed in your mission.

73
Either vou may try to cut yourself fee from the

Sewer Snake, or You may ward it off witha Spell. If
you will fight the creature, resolve this battle:

SEWER SNAKE

IF you win, turn Lo 112,

SKILL 6 STAMINAT

If you wish to cast a Strength Spell, add 3 to your
dice: roll on your Attack Strengtit. you wish t caste
Fire Spell, turn to 282.

74
As you jump lo the side, the sorcerer’s eyes follow
you and sa dors his fireball! It hits you in the chest,
knacking you over. The scorching svill cost you 4
STAMINA points. If you are still alive, you may
prepare another Spell for your counter-attack. Turn

to 377-

7

You step through the doorway, close the door be:
hind you and wait for some time. You hear the
foutsteps run claser and reach the door. TIncompre:
hensible chatterings on fhe other side al the door

76-77

eventually die down and again you hear footsteps,
this ime moving away from you. You ring for the
Sutler. Turn to go.

While you were pulling out your Berries, Balthus
Dire has been concentrating on 2 Spell. He looks up
and bursts out laughing. ‘Slumberberries!” he cries.
And what are you expecting me to do? Pop them
mio my mouth? He snaps his fingers and his Spell
materializes. Turn to 191.

Salthus Dire is surprised at your success. “So! he
exclaims. “You think yourself stronger than the
rest, eh?’ You may act quickly and cast a Spell at
Sim. Which will you choose:

An E.S.P. Spell? Turn to 187
4 Fire Spell? Turn to 46
A Creature Copy Spell? Turn to 349

E you have none of these, or would prefer not locas
2 spell, turn to 355.
79 A yaculiar bush with brenches tenstozg oun from Pec eoatrel alk,
ae fn azoNy.

78—8o0
78

His eves follow you to the window. His pupils have
turned milky white. He leans his head back, blinks
once and moans. Snapping his head forwards, he
mow glares at you with eyes that have turned ta
shining silver! His gaze is hypnotic, and you will
have to act quickly. Will you:

Hide yourself behind one of

the drapes? Turn bo 324
Pull one of the drapes down and
throw it over his head? Turn to 124

Look through vaur backpack for

something to use? Turn to 277

in the far corner of the coetyand: ¥OU COME aACTOSS a
peculiar bush svith branches twisting out from the
central stalk, as ifin agony. Theleaves are diamond-
shaped, with small berries underneath, Mat and
tabict-like. You may take some bernes with you on
your adventure and creep further along the wall lo
the main entrance ta the Citadel. Turn t) 218.

’ u

So

As you leap across the table, the sorcerer spins
sound. You stumble and crash tu the ground as vou
see that he has changed into a creature much more
S2ngzerous than vou, Eis face is now that ofa witch,
end his hair is now a mass of snakes, writhing and
missing at vou. Will you continue your attack (turn
® 199) or retreal from him (turn to 232)?
81-84

81
The Ape-Dog laughs and tells you that Kylltrog is &
lazy good-for-nothing and is not worth saving. You
breathe a sigh of relief as he walks back and shouts
for the gatekee per. Moments later, the gatekeeper
appears and opens a small doorway to let you in.
‘Turn lo 251.

82
You Jall into the trench. Frantically, you try to grasp
the edie as you tumble over, but without success.
Head over heels you tumble down the pit. and your
last memory is your final crash as you hit the ground
below, which kills you instantly.

You have failed in vour mission,

83
The man is a- merchant. You tell him you are of the
same profession and you chat for some me about
prices and profits within the Black Tower. He says
he has never been alluwed above the ground floor of
the Citadel, as merchants are rather despised m-
side, You bid him farewell and press onwards. Tur

to 245.

As you study the shelves, you hear 2 commotion
behind you. You wheel round in iime to see Orc-hke
creatures, armed and on guard, materializing one
after the other behind you. They advance and sur
round vou. The tallest one moves his face clase te

85-87
yours and blows a puff of breath straight into your

=yes. The room spins and you slump to the ground,
snconscious. Tur to 234-

85 :

You cast vour Spell and wail fora fireball to appear
on the end of your torch. The torch flickers, just
enough for you to see that there is a door on the far
side of the room, but then foes out again. The
Genjees laugh once more at your efforts to thivart
them. You feel a blow on the head which knocks
you to the ground again. Lose 2 sramina points.
Wil you:

Try an Mlusion Spell? Turn te 395
Take something from your

backpack? Turn to 322
Draw your sword? Turn to 248

36

4s you cast the spell, the two creatures watch in
amazement as you rise in the air, float over their
meads towards the gate. over the wall ancl into the
Sttedel. You land on your feet inside the pate and
ook around. Lurn to 251. But beware! They will be
Sure to alert the Citadel guards. Cross the Levitation
Spell you have just used off your Adventure Shiret,

tou create a large fireball in your hands and throw il
= the creature. lt has no effect. The Gargoyle
Swipes al you and the blow knocks you off your feet.
S38—go

Losé 2 STAMINA points. You had better avoid this
beast by leaving the room and trying the middle
door on the balcony. Turn to 64.

85

the door ts extremely strong, but cracks a little
under rour charge. You may try charging it as often
23 you wish until vou break it. Roll a die for cach
attempt. IF you roll a six, you succeed {tum to 292).
ror each unsuccesstul allempt, you must Jose 1
stTAMINA point. IF you decide avainst this course of
action, you may use a Strength Spell (turn lo 170), or
try either the middle doar {tum to 44) or the dour at
the far end ol the balcony (turn to 304) instead.

89

The key turns, the lock clicks apen and you louk
inside the box, Inside the box is a glass jar, and in
Uus jar ts a spider. But not a normal spider; this
creature has the face of an old man. He is talking to
you. but you cannot make out what he is saying. A
noise startles you and you spin round to see that the
coor, the one you came through, is beginning to
open. You put the jarin vour bay and make for the
other door. furn to 237.

go

90 just aluand, @ rooms sevens fo be mrxtiisg clots the passageway widens and you are now walking
ziongside a Howine river. Just ahead, a woman

seems to be washing clothes. She has a basket of

hese clothes beside her, and several sets of long

Trea

91
johns are hanging on a line behind her. Will you:

Draw out your sword and advance

ready fora fight? Turn to 176
Hail her and try to make

conversation? Turn to 23
Use an £.5.P, Spell to find out

who she ts? Turn to 329

She looks at your offering and her eyes widen. ‘Tet
me see that,’ she commands. You carefully advance
towards her and hold out the brush. She snatches it
and spends several moments admiring it. This is
indeed a work of att,’ she says, and she gets out of
bed to try it in front of her mirror. As she brushes
her hair with it, her hair takes on an unusual sheen,
glimmering softly. She is fascinated with your gift
and now is your chance to leave unnoticed through
a door in the far corner. You may try to lake with
you a Golden Fleece which is lying on the bed. fest
vour Luck. If you are Lucky, you manage to snatch il
quickly and can leave through the other door (tum
to 140). 1f vou are Unlucky, vou may Tes! your Luck
ayain until you are finally Lucky. Or, if Tuck is not
with you, you may ignore the cumbersome thing
and leave anyway {tum to 440).

92595
92

The milky liquid smells sweet. You take a sip and
start to gigele! You take a gulp and bust out
laughine — for ne reason at all! No wonder the little
Gremlins were enjoring it so much. Light-headed,
and in fine spirits, you leave the chamber ta make
your way onwards towards the Citadel. Turn to 156
and add 2 Stamina peints for this refreshing ina-
dent.

Outside the door vou look at vaur battle. [tis a bottle
of Hogweed Essence, apparently usctul for repel

lms stone-based creatures, This may be useful and
you put itcaretully into your backpack. Heading on
up the corridor, you come to another door, which
opens, letting you pass into a large ragm. Turn te

269.

94
You feel your own growing power. Running at the
door you hit it hard with your shoulder... but it

does not budge! Lease 1 stamina point for your
bruise and Knock loudly to summon the guard.
Turn to 128.

Al the tar end ot the Wine Cellar is a wooden door,
which you try. It opens out into a passageway
which leads onwards for several metres. Tum ta
367-
96-97

They accept your offering and summon the
gatekecper, who opens a small doorway m the
poricullis te Iet you in. You leave them squabbling
over the gold nugget. Turn to 252-

97

The bread is rather tasteless and dry. In factitis very
dry —so dry that you are soon desperate fora dink!
Your mouth is parched and you frantically search
thraugh the food in the room for something t
drink. But there is nothing te quench your thirst.
You must deduct 1 SKILL point until you find liquid
of some sort which you may drink (dnnking this
liquid need not necessarily be given as an option —it
may just be described as being present in a room).
You may now leave the room, either through the
door in the left-hand wall (tum to 43) or through the
one opposite the door you entered through (turn to
281}.

g8—100

95
ihe GOLEM advancing towards you is a slow-
moving creature, and you reach the boxes casily-
You curse as you find they are all lacked, As you
struggle with the locks, the Golem closes on you.

You may:

Draw your sword and fight the

creature Turn to 303
Cast a Fire Spell Turn tu 4
Casta Creature Copy Spell Turn to 190
Forget the boxes and race lor

the daor turn to 237

99
Will vou take either the teft-hand door (turn to 52) or
the mght-hand door (turn to 38)?

109
Do vou havea Levitation Spell? Ifsa, you had better
use if now to float out of the pit. If vou levitate
yourself, vou can continue down the wall towards
the comer of the courtyard (turn to 79). If not, turn
10 276.

101-102

101
A duplicate of the creature materializes between the
two of you. At your command, the battle com-
mences:

GARGOYLE
IF your creation wins, turn to 62. Lf your created
Gargoyle loses, you decide against facing the Gar-
goyle on your own and leave the room, trying the
door in the middle of the balcony, Turn to 64,

SKIIEg STAMINA 10

102
They sympathize with your request. Three of them
turn tawards the other one and, with obvious re-
luctance, this ane takes an amulet from around his
neck. ‘This,’ he says, ‘is a Charmed Amulet. It is
made of metal but a Jewel of Light is sect inte it-
Ganjees fear this talisman, but they willno doubtiry
to trick you into losing it. This has been my own
proud possession for some time but we Scouts are
obliged by our gods to offer help, sol give it to you.’

103

You thank him and place the Charmed Amulet
around your neck. You may now leave the room,
but you max feel obliged, because of his great gift, to
2ive him something in retum. If you have any Gold
Pieces, decide haw many you will give him, cross
these off your list, and tum to 183. Tf you have no
gold but will give him an artefact you have picked
up, cross this off your list and him > 396. If you
cannot, or will not, sive him a gift in return, turn ta

270.

103
You cast your Spell — but nothing happens! You fall
down and down from the tower, finally lancling
with a fatal crash on the floor below. The fearsome
creatures have robbed you of your mapic, and now
of your life

You have failed in your mission.

104-105

1

You try the handle and it tums. The door is stiffand
you must shove it open. The room inside is some
sort of living aboue, with tables, chairs, shelves and
a collection of animal heads on the wall. There is a
plush pile carpet on the floor. Suddenly, one of the
animal heads turns and looks towards you. It is
some kind of dog, and it barks loudly in a tone
which is a warning, both to you and to any of its
cronies which may be within earshot. As you watch
the head, you do not notice a carpet, which flies
up off the floor and swhisks past you, clipping your
ear. You spin round in time to see one of the chairs,
slowly re-forming itself into a tall man- “What busi-
ness have you here?’ he booms. Will you:

Tr to talk with him? turn to 266
Use one of your Spells? Turn to 310
Search through your backpack
fora weapon ora gift? Tum to 54
Leave the room quickly and try
the other door? Tum to 25
1

—

105
The svine is rather bitter and, as you savour it in
your mouth, you feel a buming sensation. You Spit
the wine to the ground and, to your amazement, a

106-108

‘et of Flame flies from your lips! You may take a
sample of the wine with you and use it instead of
casting a Fire Spell, whenever the Fire Spell option
S given. Your sample will be enough for a single
esage. You head onwards towards a door leading
further inte the cellar. Tum ta 95.

106
She laughs again and tells vou she likes to see
people getting angry. In good humaur, she accam-
panies you for several metres. Conversalion is dil-
Scult. She sees something in the distant shadaws
2nd nips off to investigate, allowing you to advance
to the Citadel's main entrance. Tum to 218.

107
You have caught either £, 2, 3 or 4 heads in your
noose. These heads struyele to free themselves, but
the creature continues its advance. You begin to
panic as vou try to decide what t do next, Tum to

754.

108

tou grasp the rope firmly, step back, and take a nun
3t the putrid river. Suddenly, the rope snatches and
witps with a mind of its own! You quickly let go and
drop down to the ground. The rope drops on lop of
you and tanglesitself around you. You realize that it
S not a rope but, in fact, a long SEWER SNAKE,
which wraps itself around your body and neck,
Tum to 73.
—
=

109-112

tmp
The creature strains against the bamer of your
Shielding Spell. To your horror, itis se strong thatit
actually breaks through! Itis now on top of yuu and
you must draw your sword. um to 30.

110
Tesi your Luck. 1f you are Lucky, you choose another
name which is familiar to them and they summon
the gatekeeper, who eventually appears tu let you In

(turn to 254). If you are Unlucky, this was anather

poor guess and they advance towards you with
their weapons at the ready. You will have to fight
them (fuarn to 288).

im

You have managed to ayert your cyes from the

creature and you now back into the comer, shield-
inv your face with yourarm. But whatcan you do? li
vou have a Polished Silver Mirror, vou may pull it
out of vour backpack and hold it towards the sorcer-
er (turn to 347). Wf not, turn to 153.

112

You disentangle yourself from the dead Sewer

Snake and try crossing the water, You get across
without any further incidents, but you are certainly
looking forward to your next bath! You continue
alung the passageway until you reach a junctiun
where you can either go straight on or take 2 pas
sage off to the left. H you fork left, turn to212. Ifyou
wish ta yo straight on, turn to 367-

113-116
i113

You cast the Weakness Spell at the sorcerer. He
stops in his tracks and looks at you. His expression
changes to one of pain and his shoulders shudder.
Some sort of terrible internal turmoil is taking place
within him. Will you wait and see what happens
turn to 388) or draw your sword and advance (turn
145}?

114

You point to the base of the tentacle and cast your
spell. A puff of smoke and flash of light burst from
the hole in the ground. A shudder nuns through the
tentacle and, thankfully, it releases its grip. As il
retreats back into the ground, you rub your leg to
get the crenlation back and then set off towards the
main entrance to the Citadel again. Remember to
Geduct your Fire Spell and turn to 218,

115
tour situation is not yood. Balthus Dire strides

towards you and is almost upon you, ‘Turn to 373.

116
Your super-powered hands grip the handle and
tug. If comes off in your grip. You bunch up a fist
and slam it inte the centre of the door. The wood
cracks and breaks, allowing you to break through
mio the room bevond. Turn to 210.
~
i
i
‘
|

vi

}

SS
i ——

A)

118 The dace openz aed a lange, brutist crectere Siers ont.

117-120
447
As you draw your weapon, the sorcerer does like-
wise. You are now too close for cither of you to use
magic and you will have to finish off your battle in
the most difficult sword fight you have had. Turn ta
337.

118

fhe door opens and a large, brutish creature steps
gut. lt hasa sharp horn in the middle ofits forehead
and it skin appears to be armour-plated. It grunts
to ask you what you want and demands the pass-
word before letting you in. Do you know the pass-
word? If so, turn te 273. If not, you will have to bluff
your way in (fun to 198).

119

You turn to face the powerful sorcerer. But he has
disappeared! You spin round to see him standing
behind vou with a sharp dagger poised to strike,
You Ley to spring out of the way, but itis tou late.
The blade sinks into your back . . .

tou have failed in your mission.

120
You taste the wine and nod. The vintage is indeed
excellent with a refreshing, fruity taste. You try a
nttle more and start to feel light-headed. You may
add 2 STAMINA points and 3 LUCK points for finding
such an excellent beverage. You thank the Elf and
press onwards. Tum to 95.
421-124

i21
As you runat the door, it suddenly opens in front of
-¥ou. Unable te stop yourself, you rush headlong
forwards into the room, eventually Loipping over
and rolling to a stop. Lose 1 STAMINA point for
wrazing your knee on the rocky floor. Turn to 257.

122
You try a simple ruse to fool her, but she does not
fall for it. She will stop you getting any further
unless you use your magic. [um te 47-

123
You concentrate and imayes from the Calacorm
flash through your mind. You seea plate full of deac
snakes, then a similar-lopking creature with grevish
skin — possibly the female of its spears — then rou
feela great sense of pleasure as you see an unforiun

ate creature bound to the wall having its toes tickled
with a burning torch. Then you see the plate ot
snakes ayain. Evidently this creature thinks about
little but the simple pleasures of its miserable life
and you will not learn much about how to escape.
You had better try a Foo!’s Gold Spell (turn to 222) of
an Iiusion Spell (turn te 35). If you have neither,
lurn to 283.

124
As the drape falls, daylight streams in through the
window, You realize that vou haye lost all track of
time since entering the Gitadel. The sun is a wel
come relief after your many hours of darkness. A

125-127
thump makes you turn back towards your aclver-
sary. He is lying i ina heap onthe ground. You take a
step forwards “and he lets out a blood-curdling
scream! "The curtain! . . . You fool!. . ~ he gaspsin
2 voice that is obviously weak and dying, Evidently
the daylight vou have let in is sapping his strenyth
rapidly, and he is trying desperately to crawl into
the shadows. But he is too weak to move far and he
slumps to the ground, face downwards. Turn to
200.

12

As you break into a mum, aes arrows fly out to-
wards you from nowhere. Tes! your Luck. If you are
sae they all miss and you arrive at the monu-

ment, ducking behind the stone. If you are Un-
bucky, one of the arrows sinks into your shoulder
causing you 5 STAMINA points of damage belore
you reach the shelter of the monument. Turn to 209.

126
You pause to consider, in a state of panic. Ahead,
he passageway forks tu the left and to the riyht. As
you are trying to decide which direction to take,
Sree creatures emerge from the left-hand passage.
Calling the noises vou heard ‘footsteps’ was not
entirely accurale, as you will see. Turn tv 326.

127
She lifts her head and calls into the air. You stop in
~our tracks as you see the washing on the line rustle
and kickaboutin theair_ Freeing themselves fram the
128

line, several pieces of clothing wisp through the air
towards you and, as they get clase, you can make
out ghostly bodies with long-dead faces inside the
clothes. ‘Protect me, my sons and daughters! she
cries — and suddenly the clothes are all around you.
Same ship their sleeves at you, stinging you pain
fully. One pair of arms wraps itself around your
neck, making it difficult to breathe and lightening
iis grip. You are flailing aboul with your sward, but
doiny littl: damage to the GIMOSTS_ The strangle-
hold is tightening and you will have ta use your
magic to get free, unless vou have something in
your backpack to offer the woman. Will you:

Olfer her some Small Berries? Turn tr 53
Offer her a Silver Mirror? Turn to 387
Use a Fire Spell? Turn te 240

If vou have none of these turn t) 194.

128
‘As the Spell takes its effect, you begin to get various
thoughts as they flash through the creature's mind.
Apart from a feeling of fear thal its captam might
find out it was asicep at its past and ict an intruder
in, it holds some strange reverence for a carved
airbrush which is apparently in the room some-
where. But this is all you receive and you must now

129-131
defend yourself from its attack with something, Will
you use:

Your sword? Turn ta 336
A FooFs Gold Spell? Furn to 36
A Creature Copy Spell? Tur ta 262
A Weakness Spell? Turn lo 152

12
You struggle with the Eos foe some time, trying tk
open it. lt will not open. You take out your sword
2nd strike the box, but you succeed only in blunting
your sword — from now on you must deduct 1 point
frum your SKILL score. You do not manage to open
the box. Will you:

Try & open the first box? Turn to 260
Tre to open the third box? Tum to 370
Leave the boxes and press

onwards? Turn to 237

130
ihe spell has no effect. Cross it off your list and
draw your sword, Turn to 333.

331
You quickly unsheathe the sword, pointing it lo-
wards the Leprechaun. He throws a glance at the
Dlade and to your horror it droops limply from the
hilt, hanging downwards like a leather belt. [tseems
that vou won't get too far acting ageressively.
Perhaps vou had better ask him the way onwards.
Turn to 348.
132-134

132
You enter a room which is evidently a library of
some sori. Books stretch from ceiling to floor on
vach wall and several fables and chairs are lincd
down the centre of the room. At the far end sits 4
dark-skinned man who looks up at vou from a book
over narrow cyeglasses. Behind him is a door. “Yes,
what is it?’ he snaps. “Which baok are you looking
for?’ You scan the various shelves, which are
labelled. Will you ask him for:

Biographies of Balthus Dire? Turn to 18
Sectets of the Black Tawer? Tum to 238
Creatures of the Kingdom of
Craggen Rack? Tum to 375
133

You cast your Spell. With your new-found strength
you leap easily to the centre of the room over the
trench and break open the lock on the chest. You
curse as you find nothing inside but a good weight
of lead shot. Quickly, you leap back across the
trench towards the other door, as the spell is wear-
ing off. Test your Luck. If you arc Lucky, turn to 206.
If you are Unlucky, tum to 82.

134
They are taken aback by your audacity. Rather than
waiting for them to talk, you act ageressively and
demand to know how ta get into the Citadel_ They
point to the main entrance, obviously a little be
wildered by yvaur confident manner, and w hisper

135-136
amongst themselves. The Orc tells you that you will
need the password, ‘Scimitar’, to gel in. You ask
about the vial of liquid within the box, whereupon
they get agitated. Will you press them for more
information about the vial (turn to 60), leave them
and head for the two men you saw earlier (turn to
269), or press on towards the Black Tower (turn to
245)?

135

“Miks are masters of illusion, able to change them-
selves into any shape or form they wish. It is not
certain what their true nature is, as few have seen
them in their natural form, but they have been
described by fairly reliable sources as a thin, Elf-like
race. They are an aggressive lot, but their favoured
weapon is a Needleknife (a thin stiletto-like dagger}
with which they can only attack from close range.
Although they can change themselves into any form
—man, beast or object—they are unable to use metal
m their disguises. Thev are also unable to cast their
ilusions over other objects. Turn &) 326-

136
Thev all protest strongly, but you expiain that you
have your orders and begin te snap around the
sitchen. Will you investigate:

The cupboards? Turn te 17
The broth in the kettle? Turn to 167
The roasting spit? Turn to 389
137-140

137
The manis old and Fiasbeen hit about the head with
a club of some surt. He asks for medicine but you
have none. You could use a Stamina Spell to fix him
up and he offers to help you if you will. If vou will
use your magic, tim to 383. If not, you will have to
leave him and continue along the wall (turn to 14).

138
‘What do l want with shat? she exclaims. Avain her
eyes turn deep red and the jets of fire shoot towards
you. Will you cast a Shielding Spell (turn to 376) or
leave the roum and head down the corridor for the
middle room (turn to 64}?

139
All three knives miss and stick deep into the dour
behind you. The Wheelies are almost on you and
you must decide quickly whether to ight them (hum
te 346) or cast a Spell. You may cast either:

Turn to 244
turn to 28

An Illusion Spell
A Fire Spell

140

You leave the room and head down a short comdar-
Some metres dawn vau find yourself al the foot of a
staircase. This is a spiral staircase which leads neht

1g1—142

up into the Citadel Tower. You climb the stairs
cautiously and eventually arrive on a small landing
with two doorways in front of you. Will you take the
left-hand door {turn to 25) or the right-hand door
{turn to 104)?

141

The liquid tastes salty and vou break into a cold
Sweatas it goes down. You begin to tremble and try
to steady yourself on the altar. However, you Lrip
forward, knocking the other two chalices onte the
floor, spilling the other liquids. You slump to the
floor vourself, fecling extremely illand hazy, Asifin
a dream, you see a vision of a strange, muscular
creature with two heads, a long tail, and scaly prey
sxin. In its hand it holds a large bunch of keys. A
mouse runs across the table at which itis sitting and
it shrieks loudly . . . The cry wakes you up witha
Start and you realize where youare. You pick your-
self up and prope for the door handle — you must
have some fresh air! You leave the chamber, rest for
alew moments outside, and set off for the Citadel.
Turn to 156-

142
You try the handle and it turns. You can hear
nothing coming from inside the room, so you open
the door te look around. Lhe room is small, with a
golden candlestick ona table. - . but suddenly, vou
hear a creaking sound coming from the floor! ‘loo
te, you realize that the stones beneath your feet
are shifting to reveal a trap! You fall feet first intoa
ae = 4 — - —

Sa > 2 Tie

144 Poking toute head round ihe door, YO0 CAN 58 TOES codroxs at
nicks {util of Postizs

143-144

pit. As you hit the bottom vou roll sideways, down
another passage, and continue rolling downwards.
Try a5 vou might, you cannot stop yourself rolling
head-over-heels until eventually you come tea halt
in 2 small chamber. But the shock has been too
much for you. As the world goes black around you,

you hear excited chattetings, then you pass oul.

lurn to 234.

L§3
You concentrate and cast vour Spell. A Hydra's
torso appears, but that is all. The creatureis so large
that a single Spell will not create a duplicate. Lf
you have another Creature Copy Spell, you may
use it {turn to 360), otherwise you may look in your
backpack for something to use (tum to 226).
if you cannot, or will not use either of these, turn
to 184.

144
The door opens and you enter a narrow corridor,
You follow it for some fime until you finally come to
another door: this time a wide, carved door with
the inscription “Wine Cellar’ set into it. You try the
handle: and it opens. Poking your head round the
door rou can see rows and rows of racks [ull of
_.. full of wine? The room is dimly lit by
several candles. Your opening the door has causeda
ttle bell toring, and a figure is limping towards you
up one of the aisles. Will vou draw your sword and
prepare to defend yourself { {turn 10154), or see what
this fellow might have to say (turn ta 56)?

iN bottles
145-147

145
You draw your sword and leap across the table at
him. He, meanwhile, is evidently straining to fight
off your Weakness Spell, . . oris he? Te bumes his
head in his hands and turns away from you. lurnto
So.

146
You may ask one favour of them. Will you:

Ask how you may defeat Balthus

Thre? Turn to 247
Ask where the doors ahead lead

to? Turn to 203
Ask how to avoid the Ganjees? Turn ta 102
Tel] them you area little

weary — is there anything they

could da? turn to 66

147
The Golem crashes to the ground and breaks into
pieces. With relief, you walk over to the boxes to
exatnine them. Wull you trv to open:

The first box? Turn to 260
The second box? Turn fo 129
The third box? Turn to 370

148-150
148
The sorcerer snorts with contempt. ‘Then you can
blame your death on those same country folk who
sent you on this task!’ With these words, he pulls a
sharp dagger from his belt and drives i into your
chest. You have failed in your quest.

149
They are not interested in your company and bid
you on your way. You may either carry on tow ards
the Tower (tum to 245), turn to the left to investigate
the monumentin the centre of the courtyard (tum to
209), or sit down at the fire anyway (turn to 389).

150
You duck quickly te avoid the Trident. It misses
your neck but glances off vour forehead. Lose 2
STAMINA points and turn to 374-

151-152

151
The suits of armour area variety of shapes and sizes
and ¥ou shiver lo think of the strange crealures ther
must have been made for; perhaps you may yet
come across some of them. As you examine one
particularly grand suit, its hand suddenly Tises and
whacks you across the face’ You stagger back, spil-
tin blood, Lose 2 S1aMINA points. But the armour
makes no further move, and you decide it may be
prudent ta continue upstairs, either up the left-
hand slaircase {lurn lo 19), or up the right-hand
staircase (furn to 197}-

s—

152

You cast your Spell and the creature stups in its
tracks, nol quite sure what has happened to it. With
same effort it picks up its axe and comes towards
you, bul is evidently not such a strong adversar¥ as
betore. You draw out your sword to finish the Gark

off.
GARK
If you defeat the creature, turn to 186.

SKILL 5 STAMINA 5

153-155
153

You are powerless against the Gorgon. You slump
helplessly in the corner, while the sorcerer sum-
mons his guards, who appear several minutes later.
They pick you up and march you out of the room.
Their leader asks the sorcerer for instructions. “Exe-
cute the peasant? is his reply.

You have failed in your mission-

= = Toe —- —
é Zs a Sa

re
As you draw your sword te figgure stops and takes
something from the pouch at his waist. As he limps
closer you can see that this creature isa BLACK ELF;
tall and thin, with arrowhead ears and one lame leg.
In his hand he holds a small device of some sort. He
sees you, manipulates the device, and suddenly it
becomes a stiletto sword in his hand! Will you
advance and fight (turn to 275) or lower your sword
and talk to him (turn to 56)?

155
Your hand goes for your sword hilt. You draw out
the blade. But you do not strike the soreerer. Your
own will compels you to offer him the weapon,
which you do. He accepts. Turn to 65-
=
on

PAL)
wey .

7 MRT

156A lane, creu tentacie iuwred 0 tearil growers Gursts out of the
ground amd wraps isclf enmol wner leg.

156-158

156

4s you side across the open courtyard, you notice
Mat you are walking alongside a small mound,
aimost like a buried pipeline running from the Black
Tower to the temple. You bend over to investigate it;
sould it perhaps have been made by a mole of sume
lind? As you touch the mound, it caves in and, to
sour horror, a long, grey tentacle covered in warty
crowths bursts out of the ground and wraps itself
sound your les! How will you fight this ‘thing’:

Draw your sword? Tum to 74

Cast 2 Levitation Spell? ‘Turn to 284

Cast a Fire Spell? Turn to 114
157

The sorcerer cries out in anguish and Lurns away
Som you, holding his head. You rush forward and
be wheels round to face you. You gasp! He is no
enger the demi-sorcerer but has changed inte a
wicked-faced hag with wonkled skin. His — or
sather ker — hair is now a squirming mass of hissing
Serpents! Will you press an attack (turn to 199), oT
setreat quickly (turn to 232)?

1538
The beast whimpers as the spell takes effect. The
Eamense weight is indeed a burden without its

S hft itself fom the sround. You step over ancl run
your sword through its chest. The unfortunate crea-
tore hes dead at your feet. Turn to 77.
ee

159-162 163

4
You cast your Weakness Sell Hopefully, vou wa
for the creature's strength to fade, But as its t
still maul you, you ate dismayed t» find that i
attack is becoming more ferocious. You cannot f
your leg now. The painis intense. You feel feinta
Jose consciousness as the jaws close on your
Turn to 323.

S2bs at your sword hilt and you whip out your
ade. Bul to your despair, your new strength is
‘Shcult to control and your frst slash with the
Sword sends the blade flying through the air to Janel
veral metres away! The creatures grin at each
wther and advance. You will now have to face them
Ser=-handed, or you may use your new strength to
Round away down the hillside.

= you wish to fight, the creatures’ scores are (fight

360 Sem in turn):

The Dog-Head flics towards you and snatches the

gadget from your hand. Examining it, the other tw SKILL STAMINA
creatures gather round. They seem fascinated byt W APE-DOG 7 4

i 7 , . *
While they are so preoccupied, vou may cree S0C-APE é é

through the room te the door in the farcorner. T
lo 206. treet your scores as normal, You may indeed have
super-streneth, but you are unarmed. JE you win,
you may retmeve your sword. Your strength returns
normal Turn to 32.

163
She is deeply insulted by your inditierence.
Whirlwind rises once more and this time she knoc
you off your feet. You try crawling fonward, buts
positions herself in front of you in whichever direc
tion you turn. You will have to try to outwit her, but
how will vou start:

= you wish toe run away, do so, and start again
Smorrow night. Whichever you chaose, remember
So cross off the Strength Spell you have just used.

163
tou take a sip and gag. This wine is awful! The Flfis
oking on expectantly and you must nol insult him,
=o you take another sip, grimacing as the liquid
ees down. You thank him very much but explain
@uickly that you must be vetting back. You head
‘x the far end of the room but your stornach will
Sexe the hormd taste no longer. You are violently ill

Make your anger obvious to her? Turn to1
‘Talk to her to try to pacify her? Tum to

162
You feel poswver surge through your body. Thee
tures see your rippling muscles harden in front
their eyes and stop dead in their tracks. Your ha
164-166

on the way out. Lose 1 SKILL and 2STAMINA points
for your nausea and furn to 95-

164
The door is solid metal and no amount of charging,
even with a Strength Spell, will budge it. You fal to
your knees. After haying come so far, your mission
has failed. Unable ta go on, you will have to try
ayrain; this time looking for the combination on the
way through. You may, if you have one, use 4
Levitation Spell to take you away out of the Citadel-
You will have to try again, tomorrow night - - -

165
As you feel the strength surging through your body,
you draw oul your sword and dig into the earthy
walls. By making a fouthole, then stepping on to it
as you dig the next, you make your way up the shaft
quite quickly with your boost of power. Haliway-
up, however, your strength begins to ebb and you
realize you are retuming to normal. If you allow this
to happen, you swill fall backwards into the pit once
more. You may either cast another Strength Spell to
give you the eneriy to complete your staircase (turn
to 398}, or vou may shout for help (tum to 202)-

166
AAs you bite into the meat, you hear a faint squeal at
pain coming from somewhere distant. The meat is
tough and salty, but does nol taste too bad, so you
take another bite, Again you hear a cry and this lime
the joint of meat flies from your hand! As you pick it

167-168

up it pulls at your grip. You realize that this meat is
sill alive, and is screaming as you eal il! You feela
stab of pain in your stomach, then another. The two
mouthfuls vow have caten are trying to light their
ray out of your body! You fall to the ground,
cd utching your belly.

The meat will have three ‘attacks’ on your stomach
before it is digested. Throw two dice three times.
Each time the number thrown is higher than yuur
SKILL score, deduct 2 STAMINA points. Lf ai! three
throws exceed your ski. Score, then the damate it
does will be fatal and this is the end of your adven-
ture. If you survive, you may leave either by the
door mm the left-hand wall (turn to 13), or the door
opposite the one you came through (tum to 281}-

167

You bend over the broth and take a sniff. Phew! It is
revolting! You ask them what on earth il is, and as
vou look up, vou can see that one of them has been
guietly waving her hands at the broth. You pul
your head back, but toolate. Alarge SNAPPERTISEI
nises from the broth and snaps its sharp teeth at your
head. Tes! vour Luck. Lf you are Lucky, tum to 224. If
you are Unlucky, turn to 331-

168
You take out the Amulct and place it over your
head. The Ganjees gasp! “Begone stranger,’ says a
voice. “We wall not bother you. Take the cloor in the
far corner.” With those words, a doorin the comer of
169 A loag table, large enangit to seal forty or iftw people, stand: 2
tie centre. -

169-170

the room glows slightly. You walk over to it and
epen the door, Turn tp 328.

169

The room you are in is some sort of yrand dining
hall. A long table, large enough to seat some forty or
litty people, stands in the centre, edged with chairs.
Various doors and passageways lead from the
room, but you are particularly interested in two
wide staircases which lead upwards to either end of
@ balcony overlooking the hall. Pamtings and suits
of armour decorate the walls. The room is empty.
Will you:

Take the left-hand staircase

upiwards? Turn to 19
Take the right-hand staircase
upwards? Turn to 197
Investigate the paintings? Turn ta 317
investigate the suits of
armour? ‘Turn to 151
170

As the strength surges into your body, you charge
the door with all vour might. Roll one die. Lf you roll
21, 20r3, the door does notbreak and you must lose
> STAMINA points. If you roll a 4, 5 or 6, you break
the door down (turn to 292). Confinue this until you
succeed, or you may decide to try either the middle
door {turn to 64), or the far door (tum te 304)
mstead.
171-273
A7A

For this game vou will need at least 1 Gold Piece. E
you haven‘t any Gold Pieces, vou may use 2 Fool's
Gold Spell and take your Foo!’s Gold to the Games
Master, who will give you 19 Gold Pieces for it. (Tf
you have no Gold Pieces or Fool's Gold Speils, vou
cannot play the game.) Choose any numbers rou
wish between 1 and 6 and stake any number of your
Gould Pieces on each one. Write your selection(s) and
stake(s) down. Then roll one dic. HW the number you
rall is one of your choices, you win five times the
stake you have placed on that number. You may
continue as Jang as you like, or you may switch to
playing Knifey-Knifey (turn to 365), or Runestones
(turn to 278). IF you are bored sith playing games,
turn Lo 31. Bul you must play atleast one game of Six
Pick, if you have Gold Pieces or a Fool's Gold Spell.
before you move on.

172
You advance and take a swing at the creature. With
a clang, your siword bounces off it stone body.
Realizing that you cannot harm it with your
weapon, you may either cast a Spell (turn to 26), ar
use something from your backpack (turn to 289).

173
You concentrate hard, and a green, fuming gas jets
out of your finger towards the creature. She realizes
that her own spinning will suck the yas inside her

Whirlwind and begins to back off. When she has

174-176
retreated far enough, you make a dash for the Black
Tower. Turn toe 218.

174

The passageway twistsand tums, eventually ending
=m a flight of stairs going upwards. You climb the
stairs and find yourself in a short passage ending at
2 dead end- As you examine the wall, vou discover a
short lever, which you pull. The rock face ahead
opens slightly and closes behind you as you walk
through. You are now standing in front of a door,
which is locked. Will you try to break it down (turn
to 268) or will you cast a Strength Spell to smash il lo
bits (harn ty 116)?

The creature has never heard of a Pincus within the
Citadel. The Dog-Ape halding the mace growls and
Steps forward. You may quickly choose another
name (tum to 110) or may prepare to fight them
(turn to 288).

176
As you get closer, she turns ty lnuk at you. Not in
the least perturbed by vour weapon, she says, “Put
down your weapon, voung stranger. Lam bulan old
177-178
woman. Ill do you no harm.” Will you do as she
asks?

lf you ignore her words and

continue advancing Turn to 127
If you pul away your sword

and talk to her Turn to 22
If you stop and use an E.5.P.

Spell Turn ta 329

177
You are in a narrow hallway. This continues for
several metres and ends in a doorway. Halfway
along the passage you can see an archway where
some steps lead downwards. Will you go forwards
to the door (turn to 5), orcreep down the steps (furn
bo 344)?

178
You run around the kitchen, followed by the
Devlin. You throw chairs, food, knives and bows at
it, but all have no effect. You sling a cup of liquid
across the room and, to your surprise, the Devlin
shrieks as it hits its flaming body! Then you get an
iclea. Nipping over to the kettle of broth, you dodge
the creature until the hvo of you are ninning round
the kettle, just out of each other's reach. You both
stop, facing each other across the steaming brew-
With a great heave, you tip the contents of the Kkeitle
ouf — all over the creature, which screams and
disappears as its flames are extinguished. Now you
may either check the cupboards (turn ta 17), orleave

179-180

through the door at the far end of the kitchen (turn
> 265).

179

As you step out of the shadows towards the centre
of the courtyard, a voice in the wind cries, ‘TTalt!
Stand your ground’ You whirl about but can see
no-one addressing you. You take another couple of
steps. Again, the eerie voice orders you to stop, and
this me an arrow zings through the air and lands
close to your left foot. You jump back. Still you can
see no-one. But now you are stuck. Pill you:

Press on forwards, very

cautiously? Turn to 378
Make a dash for the monument

in the centre of the yard? Turn to 125
Cast a Shielding Spell around

yourself and advance?

Turn to 341

180

The great Gark lies dead on the ground. You wait for
2 minute to see whether the commotion will attract
2n¥ guards, but all appears to be safe. You go
through the creature's effects, but find little of
value. Inside a pouch strung around its waist are 6
Gold Pieces and an ornate Hairbrush. You may lake
these with you if vou wish. You decide to continue
onwards. Turn to 99.
181-182

131

You cast the Spell into the air. As you do so, the
Flying Carpet sails past you and, to your consterna-
aon, a second, identical carpet appears and begins
to fly around the room. Suddenly the air is awhurl.
The Dog Tlead flies off the wall and bites your arm
savagely. Lose 2 STAMINA points. The man, who
has tured inte a Snake, slithers up to you and
lunging forwards, strikes at yourleg- Test your Luck.
if vou are Lucky, the Snake's langs merely graze
you. Lose another 2 sramina paints. If you are
Unlucky, its fangs sink deep into your calf and your
lee begins to throb with pain. In a blinding flash you
realize that the bite is deadly and you sink to the
ground clutching your wound and writhing in
agony. As the poison takes effect, your head swims
and consciousness fades. You have failed in your
mission. If vou have survived, though fortunate,
you are not unscarred, Your body is wracked with
pain and you must either offer your opponents a gift
from your backpack (fun to 54), or leave the room
quickly by the other door (turn to 25).

182
You feel yourself sucked int) the raom. As if by
magic, your torch flickers and dies. The room is
pitch black. From nowhere, yet everywhere, comes
2 mocking laugh which Hills the room. ‘Paolish
adventurer,’ says another voice, which changes ils
tone from high to low as it speaks, “Welcome to the
home of the GANJFES! Unfortunately, it will be the
last room you will ever see... Ah, but of course,

"

192 Suddeuiv, 7 ghostly white lm

183-185

vou cannot see, can you? But wr can sec vow, can’t
we brothers?” And laughing voices come from all
around you. Suddenly a ghostly white luminous
face flics Lowards you- You recoil in horror, throw-
ing yourself cm the ground, and begin to feel very
fristhtened. Lose f SKILL, 2 STAMINA and 1 LUCK
point for vaur fear. What can you do here:

Creale 4 Fire Spell? Turn lo 85
Try an Illusion Spell? Turn to 395
Feel in your backpack foran

artefact? Tum to 322
Draw your sword? Turn to 245

183
He thanks you profusely. You have made a friend
here. Turn to 270

184

While you are deliberating your next move, the
Hydra advances. Iwo of its heads dart out and vite
you; one on yourarmand the otheron your neck. Its
sharp tecth pierce your skin and bite deep. All is
lost, You have failed in your mission-

185
The dour opens into a narrow corridor which bends
round sharply te the left, continues for several
metres, then ends finally at a door. You grasp the
handle, Turn to 13.

186-187

186

the tall man agrees and persuades the shorter man
that this is a fair price. The short man mumbles and
curses, offering 6, then 7, Gold Picces but the price
has been fixed at S. You mar, if you wish, offer the
tall man 8 Gold Pieces yourself, although vou will
have to conjure up some Fool's Gold to give to him,
[If you want to do this, use upa Fool’s Gold Spell and
turn to 15. [fnot, the short man eventually agrees to
the price, buys the dagger and leaves. You may
remain to talk to the tall man (turn to 83), or may
continue on your way (turn to 245}.

187
You concentrate on the sorcerer’s mind. Images
and words flash through your head. A couple of
seconds later, there is nothing. You Ivak up at
Salthus Dire, who is glaring at you. “Do not try to
probe the mind of Balthus Dire! he commands. You
concentrate again, but sull receive nothing as he is
now blocking your Spell. You reflect fora second on
the images you did receive: a chart under the battle
plan table - . . a sense of horror at a high-pitched
screech . . . a blinding light. . . a ring on his finger
. -a Tazor-edged sword . . .and you.

He is now mumbling under his breath, watching
you with one eye. He raises one hand in the air and
concentrates his gaze onit. Then helooks atyou- He
waves his hand in the air, backwards and lorwards
and side to side, faster and faster. With a crash he
rings his hand down on the table. You fall to the
188-189

float — not in surprise, but because the ground
beneath you is shaking violently. The whole roam
seems to be tossing like a ship in a tempest.
Although he has a firm footing and is now walking
towards you, you cannot rise to vour feetatall. Your
only chance isa Spell, if you have any leit. Ifso. will
you use:

Turn 10 279
Turn to 314

A Levitation Spell?
An Ihasian Spell?

Bul if you have neither of these, turn to 115.

188
A sudden intense flash of light bursts out in front of
you. You shield your eves and then rub them — but
you cannol see! Panic hits you as you hear a low
growling noise. Padded footsteps come closer and
you cry outin pain as this unseen creature roars and
embeds its sharp teeth in your leg. Will you:

Cast a Strength Spell? Turn to3m
Cast a Weakness Spell? Turn to 159
Dray your sword and slash out

at the creature? Turn to 51

189
You may use any of the following Spells:

Iusion Spell Turn to 319
Shielding Spell Turn to 130
Weakness Spell Tur to 45

Lf you have none of these, you will have to use your
sword. Turn to 333.

190-192

190
A perfect copy of the Golem forms in front of you.
You command it te attack the real Golem, which is
now almost upon you. Resolve the battle of the
Golems:

GOLEM SKILLS

if your creation beats the original, turn to 147. Lf il
does not, you will have to finish off the fight your-
self. lf you win, you may also turn to 147.

STAMINA 10

191

You gasp as the Spell materializes itself in front of
you. A perfect replica of yourself, armed as you are,
now stands in front of you. At the serverer’s curn-
mand, your twin advances and you must fightit, it
has the same SKILL, STAMINA and 1.UCK scores as
you have. The only advantage you may have is by
using your LucK lo do extra damage or minimize
wounds — your win will not use its Luck here. If
you win, turn to 119.

192
You cast the Spell just in time. The missile hits your
magica! shield and splatters against it, dribbling on
to the floor. You test the resulting mush ta see what
itwas. You were nearly hit by a tomato! In the centre
of the room, the sleeping figure is stirring- Turn ta
29.
193-196

. 193
Choose a Spell:
Fool's Gold ‘Turn to 211
E.S.P. Turn tk? 123
Thiasion ‘Turn to 35

if you have none of these, turn to 283.

194

The stranglehold around your neck tightens and
your last living memory ts one of fear — of these
non-human creatures with their long-dead faces,
gloatine over your death.

You have failed in your mission.

295
Balthus® eyes follow you as you duck but you are
obscured by the battle plan table. Ehe miniature
fireball dips in the air but shoots over your head.
You may quickly use another Spell to attack. Turn lo

377-

196

The room is indeed a fewod store. At first, the strange
smells —a mixture of sweet, spicy and stale food —
take you by surprise. Various meats hang on haoks
alons one wall. In one cornerisa barrel, full of exotic
truits. A cheese rack holds a dozen or su varieties uf
cheese and your nose turns up in lisgust at the
strong smell! of the, shall we Say, ‘Over-Tipe’ ones.

Six loaves of black bread stand on a table, next loa

196 Af first sigit,! the strane singiis— < midture of Roe, say aes
file fad — take wow hy serprsse.

197-199

bread knife and cutting board. Tiwo other doors lead
from the room. If youlare hungry, you May fy some
of the food {turn to 45), otherwise you may leave
either thraugh the door in the left-hand wall (turn to
13), or the door in the right-hand well (tum to 282).

197
The stairs are well-worn and creak under your
weight. Cautiously you cimb up te the balcony-
Turn to 363.

198
You think quickly. You reach into your bag and pull
oul a handful of weeds. Showing them to the crea-
ture, you explain thal you are 2 herbalist and hare

come to treatthe Lord’s librarian, whois critically ill.

The messenger never told you of any passwords.
Will he believe you? Test your Lick, Ifyou are Lucky.
he believes you and Icts you in (turn to 177). if you
are Unlucky, he doesn’t care who you are, you may
not enter without the password, and he advances
towards you with his pike (turn to 2g).

199
The sorcerer has transformed himself into a GOR-
GON, an extremely dangerous creature with the
power to turn to stone any who catch her gaze. As
you lunge forward you stare directly into her face

200-202

and her Spell is cast. You can feel your joints stiffen-
ine. You fall to the floor. Your consciousness fades
a5 you turn into a stune statue, dead at the feet of
Baithus Dire . . -

You have failed in your mission.

200

At your first movement, the creature seems to break
from its trance and steps towards you, Seeiny this
you may either run for the door at the far end of the
room (turn to 237), or make for the boxes and risk
taking on this silent giant (turn to 98).

201
They point towards the two doors. lhe one on the
left, they say, takes you into the kitchen, where the
cooks will be preparing the supper. The door on the
right leads into the Great Hall, where all the ban-
quets are held. Turn to 270.

202
After several minutes of shouling, you hear voices
ina strange tongue coming closer. Tu your relief you
see four heads peering into the pit, silhouetted
against the sky. You yell at them to get some rope.
Ther chatter and disappear. Eventually you hear
their scurrying footsteps returning. They stand
once more at the top of the pit and throw down to
you, Not a rescue rope, bul the contents of a caul-
dron of boiling oil! You will have to watch your
footing on your next adventure, for this one is aver.
203-205

And remember - strangers are not welcome at the
Citadel of Chaos . ..

203

As you race for the dvars, vou stumble, allowing the
creature to yrain ground. It grabs your arm with one
hand and throws you across the room; you land with
a crash against the wall under the mirror. You will
now either have to draw your sword (turn to 16}, or
prepare to use a Spell (turn te 12).

204

You hold your nose and step forward into the slimy
water. A cauple of steps in, you feel a pulling on
your Jeg. Lifting it out of the water you find that
some sort of vine has coiled itself around your leg-
You leap back to the bank and the vine remains
fixed. Fram out of the waler, one end of the vine
rises, Moves around in the air as if looking al you,
and then falls back with a splash. You realize that
this is nota vine, but along SEWER SNAKE. which
is now pulling itself towards you. Lum to 73-

205
The tall man is outraged by your pnce, bul the other
agrees, The arjuument becomes more intense and
the taller man draws his sword. The shorter man
does likewise and, as you arc threatened, soda you.
Tt is you and the shorter man against the tall man.
You must resolve this battle. Before starting each
Attack Resend, roll one die. If the number is odd, the
tall man will attack the shorter man first and you

206-207

personally may ignore thal Attack Round (although
you must still roll for the short man). If the number
is even, the tall man goes for vou (and the shorter
man can ignore that Atfack Round}. If the shorter
man dies during the battle, the taller man will finish
off the battle with you.

SKILL STAMINA
TALLMAN & 8
SHORT MAN 7 6

When the battle has been resolved, turn lo 309 if the
shorter man is still alive, If he has been killed, turn
tr 368.

206
You leave through the door and find yourself at the
foot of another spiral staircase leading up into the
Black Tower. Climbing the stairs, you eventually
come to a landing where a single door is the only
way onwards. You try the door. It opens slowly.
Tien ft 182-

207

You open the door and peer through inte the dark-
ness beyond. You walk a couple of paces forward,
allowing your eyes to accustom themselves to the
blackness. You clase the duor behind you, bidding
the Leprechaun farewell. Turn to 188,

* ~ —
eee
nae ae
210 Heivring above the tails . fast asleep — Ea tery small nae
resid On 2 green shirt cmd yanctolooes.

208—210

208
The Spider-Man's weapon is its bite, which is highly
poisonous. As it bites vou, you feel the poison
spreading through your system, numbing your
nerves. As you stumble and fall to the grounel, it
atlacks you again and again. Your last memory is its
ugly little face biting inte your neck.

You have failed in your mission.

209
You cast your eyes over the slrange structure. It
appears not to be a fountain, but a temple of some
sort. To one side there is a door, which you may
investigate, or you May press onwards towards the
Citadel itself. IF vou wish to press onwards, turn to
156. if you wish to investigate, turn to 362.

210

You now stand in a large, round room. Itis lit by a
single torch. fixed into one wall. There is no frmi-
tute in the room, save fora rough wooden table and
chair in the centre. Hovering above the table — fast
asleep —is a yvety small man dressed in a green shirt
and pantaloons. He cannot be more than a metre tall
and you cannot believe that he is still asleep after
your noisy entrance! You hear a creak and turn to
yournghtin time to see a small catapult fire a missile
of some sort straight at you. It is going to hit you
unless vou use a Shielding Spell! If you use this
Spell, turn io 192. Lf you cannot (or will not), turn to
339-
211-213

241
You offer him the pebbles you have turned into
gold. ‘Everything I want is down here,’ he says. ‘I
am led, 1 have a job to do and, if I get bored | am
allawed toa torture the prisoners for amusement
What do { want with gald? You had better try
another Spell. Will you go foran E.S.P. Spell (tum to
123), or an iNusion Spell (turn to 35)? Hf you have
neither of these, turn Lo 283.

2i12
aking the left fork, you follow a path which even-
tually joins another passageway leading on north-
wards. You follow this new path for some distance
until it eventually widens oul. Turn to ge.

213
You draw your sword just in time, as the Dwarf is
almost upon you. bight each in turn:

SKILL STAMINA
DW ARE 5 6
GOBLIN : 4

if you win, turn to 235. You may Esoipe during the
battle by making off for the monument in the centre
of the courtyard (turn to 209).

214-217
214

You take the stopper off the Vial and spray the
cTeature with the green liquid. It growls and
screams in the air, clutching itself around the neck.
The liquid appears to be burning into the Garzayle
and fumes rise into the air. Moments later, the
creature fies dead on the ground. Tum ta 62.

ae

5 be

ee ee

Sat z= a Sa er

215
You will have to make up some story for these ugly
women. Will vou tell them that the Captain of the
Guard has ordered an inspection of their kitchen
after a couple of cases of food poisoning (turn to
136), or will you tell them you have taken a wrong
tum and you are looking for the way onwards (ture
to 41}?

216
What will your approach be? You may either tell the
creature that you are a guest (turn to 294), or you
may try to bribe the Gark by offering it 3 Gold Picces
~rea Gold Pieces — (turn to 394), or by using a Fool's
Gold Spell to create some gald to offer it (furn tu 36).

217
You turn the handle as carefully as possible so as to
surprise whatever awaits you. Slowly, the dour
opens and vou enter the room, which is dark and lit
218—219

by a single flickering candle. Your blood drains a5
you see a three-pronged TRIDENT heading direcily
for your throat! In a flash you must decide what to
do, Will you:

Immediately cast a Shielding

Spell? Turn to 293
Try quickly to side-step the
weapon? Turn to 57
218

In front of you is a large wooden door, firmly
locked. You may cither knock three times for the
guard (turn to 118), ar you may use a Strength Spell
to try to open it (turn to 94).

219
You duck and cover your head. A bottle hits you.
then another, then another — but you don’t feel a
thing! How could this be? Then you realize what is
happening. The wine must have contained some
hallucinatory potion that is making you imagine the
bottle attack. In an instant, the noise ceases. You
look up lo see that, as vou suspected, all the bottles
are in place on their racks. With great relief, you
press onwards and leave the Wine Cellar. Tum to

220-221

220
The knives hit your magic shield and drop to the
ground. The Wheelies likewise bumpinto the shield
and bounce off, somewhat mystified. They chatter
ty each other, holding you at bay while your Spell
wears off. They seem to reach some sort of agree-
mentand one rolls aff back up the corridor, presum-
ably to fetch help. The other two reach for their belts
and pull out small blowpipes. Putting some kind of
pellets in their mouths first, they prepare to aim.
‘ou will have to leap on them first with your sword.
Resolve this battle (fight each in turn):

SKILL STAMINA
First WHEELIE 7 6
Second WHEELIE 6 5

if you win, you may take either the left-hand pas-
sage (turn to 243), or the right-hand passage (lurn
fc 2).

221
As you move forwards, she makes a peculiar ges-
ture with herhands and lowers her head, mumbling
quietly. Turn tu 127.

pe tT eet ae o3

«
ee

e

f-=

Py 5 = inane peek
, * . ,
,° * 44

222.As yor get Chaser, wnt 20k iaake Owl Me SATE OF 4 Tae
Sram, clreasty D2 pao.

222-225

222

As you creep around the wall, vou hear a low
moaning noise a few metres ahead. As you pet
closer, vou can make out the shape of a man.on the
ground, obviously in pain. Fe calls out for help.
Will you approach hinv to see whal you can do (turn
to) 237) or ignore him and continue alcng the wall
(turn 20 14)?

223
She srimaces a5 she looks at the ugly little thing,
pulling the bedclothes up around her neck. Turn to
138.

39.

You quickly whip your head back and narrowly
avuid the Snapperfish’s jaws. But you crack your
head on the handle on which the kettle is hanging.
Lose 2 STAMINA potnts. You reel from the blow and,
a3 Fou try to collect rour senses, the three old
women shove you off towards the door at the far
end of the kitchen. “Good riddance, scab!’ they
shout as ther shove you through the door. Turn to
265.

225
He agrees entirely. This artefact is extremely valu-
able. The shorter man explains that he just doesn't
have that kind of money, and wanders off into the
darkness. The tall man offers the dagger to you at
the bargain price of g Gold Pieces. You may use a
fool's Gold Spell to conjure up enough gold ta buy
226—227

the knife (deduct this spell and turn to 15) or you
may apologize and press onwards (turn to 245)-

226
You may pull from your backpack any one of the
following, if you have callected them:

A Silver Mirror Tum to 312
A Galden Fleece tum to 37
A Pocket Myriad Turn to 3843

If you have none of these, turn to 184.

>;
They begin to gel very angry at your manner. Tem-
pers rise and they start to shout. Suddenly you are
overwhelmed by them. You struggle, but one of
them cracks you un the head with a sword hilt. Your
head swims and the room goes black as yau lose
consciausness. Turn to 234.

228—229

228
The locked door is very strong and made otf solid
oak. [tis unlikely you will break it down, but you
may try. Otherwise you could use a Strength Spell
to smash it. The lock is copper and you could try
using a Copper Key if you have one. Which will you
choose:

Tr¥ to smash it down? Turn ta 88
Cast a Strength Spell? Turn to 1790
Use a Copper Key? Turn to 296

229
You slam the door shut behind you. You follow a
short, narrow passage, which winds round and
brings you tp the foot of another staircase, reachiny
nght up into the apex of the Citadel. A sign on the
wall reads “HALT. None may pass but by order af
Balthus Dire.” You realize you are nearing your goal.
Coutiously you climb the stairs to the next landing,
night up in the belfry of the Citadel. In front ol youis
asolid metal door. You try the handle but the door is
locked. You lift a small flap and can see small
tumblers underneath, [his is a combination lock
230-231

which can only be opened by those who know the
combination. Do you know the combination? If so,
turn ta the section of the book with that same
number. If not, you may either try to break the door
down {turn to 50), or use a Strength Spell (turn to

164}-

230

‘Come ta make some money, ch?’ says the Ape-
Dog. ‘Well you can share some of your profits with
us!” As you have nothing to offer them, you can pull
a rock out of your pouch and casta Fool's Gold Spell
on it, offering them a gold nugget (turn to 96}, or
you can prepare yourself for battle (furn & 288).
Deduct the Fool's Gold Spell from your Spells if you
use it.

231

You barge the door ei your shoulder. Tes! your
Luck. IF vou are Lucky, the door breaks open (turn to
196). L you are Unlucky, you bruise your shoulder—
lose 7 STAMINA point—and rou must Tes? your fuck
again, repeating this procedure until you are Lucky.

232-233
Lose £ STAMINA point for each unsuccessful
attempt. When you do eventually break the door
open, turn to 196. Otherwise, if your shoulder is
2ctting a little too painful, you may return to the
first fork you came to and take the ather passage at
any fime fturn tis 243}.

232
You back off im horror from the hideous creature
standing belore you. From the legends vou have
been told i in your youth you realize that you are
facing a GORGON, whose gaze has the power to
turn yon to stone! Test your Lack. If you are Lucky,
turn to 11t. If you are Unlucky, tum to 72.

233
You avoid the full impact of the Trident, but one of
its prongs embeds itselfin your shoulder. Tackily it
is not your sword arm. You grab the shaft and
wrench if from vour shoulder, crying out m pain as
you do so. Lose 5 5TAMINA points for your injury
and turn t 374-

a a:
i Ser oy KS — ” lar
ae ak oo 4,

vr

PIPES A ROTWILILAr OVEN AP heey

=a a hy Le REAR, EASES
lic HS) BW, GY ESN (isi

234 You can seen feared bite crete shafilazg Goon the cersacr
orring @omug ene bazri.

234-235
234
You wake up in a dirty room with rough walls cut
into the rock. Iron bars in the window and the door
confirm VOour suspicion that you areind prison cell
of some sort. There is not much you cando butsiton
the straw mattress in one corner until someone
appears. An hour or so later, you hear a shuffling
noise outside. Looking through the bars in the door
you can see a lizard-like creature shuffling down the
corridor, carrying a muy and bowl. The beast has
two heads which talk to each other as he walks. Tes
skin is grev and sealy and a long tail lollows it up
the passage. It stops al your door and pushes the
baw] and mug through a small opening into your
cell, then shambles off to sit ata table acrass the hall.

You have been given bread and broth. Will you cat
and drink, or will you call out t this creature, a
CALACORM? To take your food, turn to 397. If you
wish to shout to the Calacotm, turn fk) 69.

235
Afraid that the commotion may have attracted

attention, you peer out into the darkness. Nothing
seems to be happening. Going through the pockets
of the creatures you find § Gald Pieces, a copper-
coloured key, and a jar of a dark, creamy ointment.
You may take any two of these with you. Turning to
the vial of liquid, you can make out aninscription on
the lid. written in mumes. Your heart leaps as you
realize that this is a Potion of Magik andis very rare.
Within the vial is enough liquid for two closes, and
each has the etiect of raising your Macre scare by 1
236-237

point, allowing you the energy to use one extra
spell, You may take this Potion with you to use after
using any Spell. When you drink the Potion, vou
need not cross that Spell off your list. Remember
this Potion will only svork twice. Now you may
carry on, either towards the Citadel (him to 245}, or
o¥er to the two men talking by terchlight (turn to

236

they take your Berries enthustastically, popping
them into their mouths and chewing them. Seconds
later, they fall asleep, one by one. When all three are
asleep, vou walk over to investigate the box. [he lid
opens revealing several more dolls mside, just like
the ones on the floor, and various other wooden
lovs. There seems to be nothing of real value there
and so you leave the roam by the far door. ‘Turn to
140.

237

You open the door and step forwards into a pas-
supe way, which runs eastwards for several metres
and then ends at the foot of a staircase, You climb
the stairs and eventually find yourself in a narrow
passageway. A short distance ahead, you can ste an
opening into a large, well-ht room. You press on
forwards. Turn to 169.

238-239

238

He indicates a section on the shelves and you take a
book to one of the tables to read through it. The
book is most enlightening, tracing the history of the
Citadel. The Black lower was built by Balthus Dire’s
grandfather. As itbecame a sanctuary for the forces
of evil, law and order gradually made way for chaos
as the monstrous creatures battled their way up the
power hierarchy. Dire’s grandfather eventually
found it necessary to protect himself trom his min-
ions by setting up various protective traps between
the creatures and his own dwellings, most notable
of these being the Doompit Trap and a magical
Combination Lock on the door to his own room. Lhe
combination of the luck is 217. You read further
about the various secret passageways that perincale
the Citadel. You may then choose either to ask the
man for the section on Balthus Dire (furn to 18), or
the section on Creatures of Craggen Rock (hum ta
375). or you may leave the room through the door at
the far end (tur te 32).

239
An idea strikes you. You tie the rope into a lwop,
with a slip-knot at the end. Whirling the rope
around your head, you try to snare the chest. After
several throws, your loop gues over the chest and
the slip-knot tightens around it. You pull, and the
chest shifts. You pull once, and it falls over the edge
and down into the trench — but to your dismay, the
weight of the box is enormous and it pulls vou right
240-242
over with it! lt you have a Levitation Spell, use itand
turn to 379- Otherwise turn to 82.

240
You hold up a flaming hand, running 1¢ down the
back of the gown with its arms around your neck
The garment bursts into flames and 2 silent scream
comes from the dead mouth within it. The other
Ghosts back off. You set fire to a couple more as they
retreat. Unluckily they are too close and you lose 2
STAMINA points lor your burns. W. alking carefully
forward you hold the rest of the Ghosts at bay until
you are saicly past the woman. Turn to 6.

241

You hit the creature a damaging blow. But te your
dismay, your sword tangles itself within the Deast’s
long hair, You try to pull, butit slashes at the sword
and knocks it out of your hand across the room. You
are now defenceless. You may either continue the
fight with your bare hands, or cast a Strength Spell.
If you fight at normal strength without 2 weapon,
deduct 3 points from your SKILL score for the rest of
the fight. If you use a Strength Spell. you may
continue at normal SKILL. If you win, you may
retrieve your sword and turn to 77.

242
The bottles and caskets contain hundreds of differ-
ent types of wine. Some are exceedingly old and
valuable, In one corner of the room there is a table
laid uut for sampling, with two bottles and glasses.

243-244
Will you try a sample of the Red Wine (furn to 24), or
the White Wine (hirn to 105) or wall you Ery netther
and press ontwards {turn to 95)? If you decide to
leave, you may take a bottle of wine off one of the
racks with you for your journey,

243
The passage runs along for several metres and then

ends ata door. You listen at the door and can hear a
deep heavy breathing coming from inside, as t
some large creature were asleep in there. Cautiously
you tr¥ the handle and the door opens. Just inside;
althoush the room is dark, you can see that a very
large Goblin-like creature is asleep on the floar. You
may either risk tiptowing into the room (Lurn lo
352), OF you may retum to the fork and try the
right-hand passage (turn to 2)-

As you concentrate on vour Spell, the Wheelies
stop. Evidently they are a little apprehensive about
what you are planning. Suddenly, in front of their
hairy eyes, you disappear! Again they chatter ex-
citedly. Where have yougone to? Under our Invisi-
tility ‘Thision, you may continue, choosing oither
the right-hand passageway {turn to 2), or the left-
hand passageway (furn to 243} leaving the Wheelics
to Search around for you in vain.

vi —ss

4.
»

-~*7
-_*~

< =
-_—=—-

—
- ——-_

245 You ssva chhastly fomric face eside wha? appears fe iva

toni iain.

245-246
245

You set off towards the Citadel. Although the nivht
air is calm, you hear 2 faint whistling, which rapidly
sets louder and louder, until a strong: srust af wind
suddenty hits you with such a lorce thal you can
barely move against it. You shield your eyes until
the blast retreats slightly and, as you open them,
you see a ghostly female face inside what appears to
de a living Whirlwind. She mouths words at you
which vou cannot make out, but some seconds after
she has finished talking, the message reaches you.
She seems to find your appearance offensive and is
challenging you with words of abuse. You grab at
your sword, but she laughs. Wall you ignore herand
continue (turn to 162}, talk to her (turn t 390), or
use your magic to see her off (turn to 47)?

246

You disappear. You can, however, still watch the
Calacorm from your cell, To your consternalion, the
Deast has not noticed that you have pone! You wait
patiently, but to noavail, and now you start to worry
that the Spell will soon be wearing off. You kick the
dust at your feet. [he creature looks up and rushes
over to your cell door. You are nowhere to be seen! It
opens your door and enters the cell, but as it does
50, your Spell besins te wear off. ‘Try to trick me,
eh? sa¥s the Calacorm as it grabs you. You will now
have to isht the creature:

CAT ACORM SKILL Q STAMINAS
You may cast 4 Weakness Spell on il, which will
—— ee

247-248

reduce its SKILL to 5, If you defeat the creature, you
may leave the jail along a passageway which runs
northwards (turn to 174).

_— A Aa
eee te
Se

247
They are shocked by your request. You curse as you
realize you should not have let them know about
your real mission. They all chatter excitedly tor
some time, then turn towards you. Together, they
all blow hard, Ta your amazement, their breath is
like a gale-force wind and you are hurled backwards
avainst the wall. Your head cracks on the rough
rocky wall and you lose consciousness. Turn to 234.

— =.

A silence spreads over the room, Suddenly, a bleod-
curdling scream comes from one corner and a
hideous face appears in the air, shooting towards
you, screaming as it comes. Your hairstands on end
and your legs turn ta jelly. Somehow, you manage
io reach the door, fling it apen and race through.
However, you have forgotten that you are high ina
towerand the balcony hasnv railing. . -Youtumble
over the ledge and fall straight down. If you havea
Levitation Spell, turn to 103. Otherwise you land in
a crumpled heap at the base of the tawer and your
broken body breathes its last breath - - -

249-251
249

The passageway ends ahead of you at 2 wooden
door. A sign reading ‘PANTRY’ is fixed to it. You
listen but hear nothing. Lhe door is locked, IF you
have a Copper Key you may try using it here (turn lo
392), otherwise you may either try to charge the
door down (turn to 231), or return Eo the fork and
take the other passage (turn to 55).

250

You concentrate and, before your eyes, a hurricane
begins to swell up and ravage the room. Chairs,
books and all sorts of things fy up into the air and
are swirled around the raom, leaving you un-
touched by the Illusion. You lake a step forward but
stop suddenly when you hear a loud laughing
sound. You look into the room Lo see that the Flying
Carpet and the Dog Head have changed intu stone
Statues. One of them taunts you. “We, my dear
adventurer. are MIKS. We are masters of illusiun.
Your crude tricks cannot fool us!’ Phe man, who has
now turned into 2 Snake, has meanwhile slithered
across the carpet, wrapped himself around yourleg
and is sinking his fangs into your rump. The pain is
unbearable and you sink to the ground, realizing
that the bite was poisonous. Beware of Miks in your
next adventure. This one has ended here...

251
You walk forward into a spacious open courtyard
sutrounded by large walls. Various lights are burn-
252-253

ing and groups of figures are shuffling around im the
darkness. In the centre of the courtyard is a large
monument of some kind — perhaps a fountain.
Looking across the yard you can see whalappears to
be the main entrance to the tower. Will vou:

Creep around the wall towards
the lower?

Stride boldly across the court-
yarel? Turn to 179

Tiptne through the shadows towards
one ol the groups?

Turn t» 222

Turn to 321

252
You have snared either 5 or 6 of its heads! lt
struyeles to free itself from the noose. With a
snatch, the Myriad is wrenched from your hand.
But nevertheless, the ercature has been diverted
enough to let youjump for the doar on the far side of
the rekon. Turn ti 229.

253

‘The cheese is indeed over-npe, but as you catit, you
feel stranyely refreshed. The taste. once inside your
mouth, is most enjoyable and you take several
mouthfuls. You muy adel 1 SKILL point, 3 STAMINA
points and 4 Lvck point for this meal and then you
can leave. If you will try the door in the left-hand
wall, turn to 13. Lf you wish to try the door opposite
the one you came in through, turn lo 281.

254-256
254
You roll down the stairs, across the room and finally
crash into the svall on the far side of the hall. You
twist vour elbow badly. Lose 1 sKILL and 2
STAMINA points for your injuries and then take the
other staircase up. Tum tv 197-

255

the creature looks at you. Its eyes narrow. In its
hand is a long pike, which it quickly points towards
you. “Ihatis not the password!’ it bellows and steps
cut to do battle. Test your Lueck. If youare Lucky, you
think of a bluff quickly (tum to 198). Tf you are
Unlucky, you stammer and the creature advances lo
ficht {turn to 290).

256

The sorcerer smiles. ‘Then you shall join me! he
laughs. “But first | must secure your genuine fayal-
ty Tis hand settles on your forchead. He closes his
eyes and concentrates. You feel your will draming.

Your fighting spirit is leaving you. After several
moments he releases his grip. You stand free in
front of him. Will you bow down ancl salute him as
Four master (turn (0 65), or grab your sward and run
him through (furn t 155)?

257-258

257

You look round the room. tis litonly by your torch.
Although a fairly large room, it has little furniture in
it, although a large boulder, sliced flat, resembles a
table and a smaller rock forms a sort of stool behind
it. In one corner, a pile of rocks are held together
with mud. You cannot imagine their purpose,
although they support three wooden chests, Then
you jump with frieht as your torch lights up a large
creature, seemingly made of rock itself, standiny: by
adoor. itis roughly human-shaped, although some:
what larger. Its eyes are staring straight at you, but
you cannot be sure it is actually seeing vou!

Will you:

Run for the other dour? Turn te 237
Attempt to speak with the
creature? Turn k) 357
Move slowly towards the boxes
in the comer? Turn t 200
258

None of your offerings are of any particular interest
to these creatures, who are much more interested in
you than vour gifts. You try to impress them with an
illusion Spell, creating a colourful rainbow across
the centre of the room. They are fascinated and
allow vou to pass through to the far door —lurn to

257 Yusr donee lights up a targe creator, senouingly mace of rack 140. If ¥ou do not have an Llusion Spell, you must
éteell. standing Fy thee door use one of your other Spells te impress them, HU you

have no other Spells, you must approach them —
turn to 366.

259
Dismayed, she watches as you float inte the air
abave her. She spins herself frantically, trying to
suck you down, bul you are out of reach. You taunt
her with a smile and a wave and float over towards
the Black lower, setting yourself down outside the
main entrance. Turn & 218.

OS E Oo

26n

After some struggling, the box opens. Inside ts 2
silver key. Will vou:

Try to use the key on the

second box? Turn to 34
Try to use the key on the

third box? lum to 299
Take the key and make for

the exit door? Tum to 237

261
The Ape-Dog asks to see vour herbs. Luckily, you
crabbed a few handfuls of weeds on your way anc
yau show them. Cocking its head te one side, the

262~263
creature eyes you suspiciously. Tt asks you for the
name of the guard you have come to treat - some-
thing you hadn't planned on! You quickly think ofa
name to bluff the creature with:

Kylitros Turn tu B4
Pincus Turn to 175
Blag Turn te? 394

262
As rou cast the spell, an identical Gark, similarly
armed, appears before you. At your command, the
battle starts:

GARK SKILL?

Ui Your creation loses, you will have to finish the
hattle to the death on vour own with your sword. Tf
either you or your Gark defeat the creature, turn to
25a.

STAMINA IT

263

Calacormes are reliable and contented creatures.
Ther are large reptilian beasts, with grey skin, long
tails and two heads, which chutter at cach other
incessantly. They want for little, having na great
smbitions in life beyond their jobs, their food {they
live on dead snakes) and their home comforts.
Rather out of character with their placid. nature is
their great delight in the screams and pain of torture
and, strangely enough, these creatures are for some
reason scared to death by mice, in spite of their hue
size. Lurn to 326.
Your great muscles flex and grip your sword hilt
lightly. You stand and face the RHINO-MAN ready
for battle. In view of your extra strength, you may
roll one of the dice again when rolling for your
Attack Strength (i.e. your Attack Strengil: will be your
SKILL score plus the roll of three dice instead of the
normal two}:

RITINO-MAN

[If you win, you may enter the Black Tower. Turn to

SKILL § STAMINAO

>
You ate in a short corridor, which ends at a large
wooden door ahead. You try the handle and the
door opens into a large room. Turn to 169-

266-268

266

He is not interested in your chat, or your stories,

and questions 5 your authority to be there. Without
warning, he turns into a Snake, hissing at you, and
slithers across the floor towards you. Meanwhile,
the Dog Head on the wall has detached itset{ and is
now floating through the air towards you, Will you
use a S against them (turn to 320) or search
through your backpack for something te use (hirn to

34)?

267
As you grasp the chalice, the liquid turns preen,
then a dirty brown in front of your eyes, lt smells
putrid, but you take a sip. With a grimace you spit it
out — you are drinking muddy + water! You leave the
chamber and head for the Citadel. Turn te 156, and
los¢ One LUCK point.

268
As you hit the door, the wood cracks a little but does
not give. You ry it again and this time the woud
splits down the middle. You break your way
through into the room behind it. Furn to 210.

Ice LO

269 As wor approsech, yn cn hear Gient arguing iowdly
price of a dagger

s aixcu? oh

26g-271
269

The two men are dirty and unkempt. As you
2pproach you can hear them arguing loudly about
the price of a dagger. The taller of the two is
obviously trying to sell the dagyer to the other, He
argues that the dagger is enchanted and is warth
more than the other is willing to pay forit. As you
come closer, he grabs you by the arm and asks you
*or Your opinion on the price of the weapon. Whal
will vou say:

5 Gold Pieces? Turn to 205

8 Gold Pieces? Turn te 184

to Gold Picces? Turn lo 225
270

tou may take either the door on the left or the ight,
If you take the door on the left, turn lo 185. Uf you
want to try the other door, turn tu 23.

272

Tou grasp his hand and introduce yourself—and cry
gat as the nerves dawn your arm go numb!
O’Seamus bursts out laughing. Lose 1 SKILL pvint,

25 YOU Were using your sword arm. You are becom- -
fg angry, but the litte man continues to shake your
Sand and laush. A laugh comes from behind you
2nd vou look round to see him floating in the air,
sinning. But vou are still shaking his hand in front
you... orare you? In fact, you now realize you
are frantically shaking hands with a stuffed dummy
which is flopping yaroumnd on the end of your arm as

aie ee a ee

_ =__——@“—

272-273

you shake it. You throw it to the ground — but it ts
stuck to your hand! The situation is ludicrous, ana
au are becoming very angry. ‘Justa little joke,’ says
the Leprechaun, who snaps his fingers. The dum-
my disappears. ‘Now, what can I do for you?’ Will
vou ask him the way onwards {turn to 348), or draw
your ssord (turn to 131)?

272

You go through his pockets and find $ Gold Pieces.
The Pocket Myriad has, unfortunately. been dam-
aged in the light, butyou may be able to find some
use for it and may take it with you. Now you may
either investigate the Wine Cellar (turn to 242), or
press on through it to the door at the far end of the
roum (turn £0 95}.

273
is the password:
Scimitar? Turn to 372
Ganjees? Turn t 255
Kraken? Turn to 49
i eravan ae —$—$—_—— =>

a —_— —-
<p PCE cee SS ee
_—< Seas en eet

274-276
274
The armoury cupboard is locked, but can easily be
smashed. Inside are various swords and pikes. Will
you smash the lack and choose a weapon (tum to
353). OF rummage through your backpack for an
artefact to use (hurn to 277)?

275
You recognize the device as a Pocket Myriad, an
enchanted gadget which can become any one of a
number of weapons or useful artefacts. You both
close for battle. You may fight him with vour sword:

BLACK ELF

Or you may cast a Spell. [f vou cast a Weakness
Spell, his sxiiiis reduced to 5. LPyoucasta Creature

SKILL STAMINA 4

Copy Spell, an identical Black Elf with a Packet

Mymiad will fight the Elf (resolve the battle between
them and if the original Black Elf wins, you must
amish him off yourselt). If you wish to cast an

_ilusion Spell, turn to 399. If you fight him and win,

tum to 272.

276
Tou fall to the bottom of a deep pit — possibly a
alled-in well. You pick yourself up and you appear
+» be intact. But how are you going lo gel out? To dig
iootholes up the sides of the pit with your sword
would take far too long. You could cast a Strength
Spell te assist you in this (tum to 165), or you could
shout for help (turn to 202). Which will you choose?
277-278

277
You no doubt have collected several artefacts om
your way through the Citadel. Do you have any of
the following? If so, you may use one now:

A Spider ina Jar Turn to 339
A Pocket Myriad Turn to 315
Small Berries Turn to 7

lf you have none of these, turn to 229.

278
Runestones is a somewhat dangerous game, but the
prizes are high, Before the game begins, your
Gaines Master, who is an apprentice sorcerer, casts
a Spell on a rock, which will cause it to explode some
time later. The players stand in a circle and toss the
rock from one to another around the circle. When
the rock explodes, the player holding it is out of the
vame ~ and winds up with badly bumed hands! Th=
remaining players are given another Runestone to
toss around again and the game continues unt
there is only one player left. Onlookers bet on the
players but, before they can bet, they must contr
bute 3 Gold Pieces each to the prize money. In thie
game you will sland to win 36 Gold Pieces, at the
risk of myjuring your hands. Having chosen this
option, you must play the game at least once, but
you may continue to play for as long as you like. E
you win, you will claim 36 Gold Pieces for each
game you play. Ifyou lose, you mustdeduct 2 skit
and 4 STAMINA points for each game.

279

Play the game like this: roll one die to see how many

other players will join you. Give each player a letter
A. B,C etc. — you are player A) and write them
down on a piece of paper, in a circle. ‘Then throw

other die for each player to see who starts with
the stone (highest throw starts). ‘l'hrow two dice tor
the starting player, who must throw less than 12.
Move on to the next plaver, clockwise round the
drcle, whoa must throw less than 11. The third
player must throw less than to, and so on. Move
your pencil from letter to letter around the circle to
seep track of who has the Runestone. As soon as
one player throws higher than the target number,
the stone explodes and that plaver is out. Then start
the whale thing again (i.e. the target number goes
Sack to 12), without the loser. Keep on going until

just one player remains. If any player throws the

same as the target number, the stone explodes in
mud air and you must repeat the round.

When vou have had enough you may cither play Six
Pick (turn to 172), Knifey-Knifey (turn to 365), or
you ma¥ leave the gaming room (turn to 34).

279
You rise into the air. The room continues to shake
2round you but you can float freely. You may fly to
wherever you wish in the raom:

To the armoury cupboard? Turn to 44
Quickly nip behind the sorcerer? =—- Turn to 318
Over to the window? Turn to 78
Under the table? Turn to 335
281 You surprise four small crveiarss silling ea the bare Noor

280-282

280

The creature is savaging you mercilessly and you
ate powerless to prevent it. Your leg is covered in
blood and the pain is sickening. fo no avail you
struggle with the unseen head_. You are in agony,
The creature lunges at your neck, and your last
memory, before losing consciousness, is of its jaws
closing around your throat, Tur to 323-

231
You open the door inte anather room and surprise
four small creatures sitting on the bare floor. They
spring to their feet, shocked at your arrival. Will
you:

Draw vour sword and make

ready for an attack? Turn to 382
Tell them you are just passing
through? Purn te 2B5
Try to make conversation with
them? Turn ta 356
282

You cast a small fireball directly at the Sewer Snake,
which burns through its body cutting it into two
halves. Both halves now attack vou and are
crushing vour chest. Lose 2 STAMINA points. Tryin
2 different strategy, you create flames which burnin
each hand and nib them over the Snake's coils. The
creature twitches violently and releases its grip! You
find its head and smother it in vour flaining hands,
bumming it to death. Turn to 122.
283-285

283
Without magic, your fate is sealed. You are doomed
to spend the rest of your days as a prisoner in the
Citadel of Chaas.

You have failed in your mission.

284
You cast the Spell (cross it off your Spell List) and
slarl lo rise into the air- The tentacle will not let go
and the pain in your leg becomes excruciating, You
decide to return to earth before your legis wrenched
from its socket. You will have to either fight it with
your sword (turn lo 71), or cast a Fire Spell (turn to

114).

You tell them you mean them no harm, you are just
on your way onwards, They sigh with relief. The
revm is sparsely decorated with bits of foliage and a
small fire burns under a hole in the ceiling in ene
corner. In the wall opposite there are two doors. The
little creatures tell you you can make your way
onwards through either ‘of these doors. Will you
choose the door on the left (furn to 185), or the door
on the right (turn te 23)?

286-287

286
The bttle creatures squeal and huddle together as
you approach. You run them all through with your
sword, but they put up no resistance! You feel a little
wary al such an easy battle and make for the door at
the far end of the room. Turn to 140.

287

You offer the Jar of Ointment. Something invisible
whisks it out of your hand and over to one of the
animal heads. Unseen hands unscrew the top and
the head sniffs the ointment inside. Turning to you,
the head snorts, ‘Why this is naught but an alchem-
ist’s healing balm! What use have we for this?’ The
Jar falls to the floor and smashes. You may either:

Offer a Pocket Myriad ‘Turn lo 160
Offer some Gold Pieces Tum to 27
Or beat 2 hasty exit and try

the other door Turn &) 25

288-289

288

The two creatures advance. The Ape-Dog attacks
you first, follawed by the Dog-Ape. Will you cast a
spell or stand and fight?

You may cast:

A Strength Spell Turn to 162
A Levitation Spell Turn to 86
Or you may fight them in turn:
SKILL STAMINA
APE-DOG 7 4
DOG-APE 6

If you kill thern both in battle, turn fo 32-

—\ AS
ti) bavractau m—- > —

aioe AF ae
289
What will you take from your backpack?
A Silver Mirror? Turn to 340
A Vial of Hogweed Essence? Turn to 214
A Jar of Ointment? Turn to 305

If you have none of these, retum to 304 and choose
again,

290-291
290

The RHINO-MAN steps fonvards and jabs at you
with its pike. You leap quickly out of the way-
Although it is not wearing armour, its thick hide
looks protection enough. You must decide whether
to take it on in combat orto use your magic. Will you
draw your sword (turn to 325), or try a spell? You
inay use:

A Weakness Spell Turn to 307
A Levitation Spell Turn to 70
A Strength Spell Turn to 264

291
“What is that?’ demands a ghostly yoice. You bar-
gain with them. You will allow them to take the
ointment if they will allow you through the room;
you have no business with them, A ghostly hand
appears from nowhere and tries tu snatch the Jar
from your hand, but you whip it away quickly. ‘Itis
indeed the Cintment of Healing,’ you hear one of
the voices say quietly, We accept your offer,’ saysa
voice. “Leave the Jar where you are and leave
through this door.”A door in the far corner glows
softly. You do not trust them and take the Jar with
you to the door. As you open the door you fling the
Jar across the room and leave quickly. Turn te 328.
Ac i

: ‘i i Le

292 The rrmm is an clevant hai-chanber. plushly dewnitel exth Ene
hice 2rd + fare uae,

292-294

=

The room is an elegant bed-chamber, plushly decor-
ated with fine lace and a fur carpet. In the centre of
the room is a large four-poster bed. Sitting up in the
ded, evidentl: awakened by all the commotion, is a
beautiful, sviphlike woman with long dark hairand
deep piercing eves. “What right have you in here?’
she screams at you. With those words her eves tum
blood-red and two jets of liquid fire shoot from them
directly at you. Will you:

Create 2 Shielding Spell to

protect yourself? ‘Turn to 376
Leave the room quickly and try

the next door? Turn te 64
fell her you have 2 special

gift for her? ‘Turn to 42

293
in the nick of time, your Spell stops the Trident in
mid-flight, horribly close to your neck. Lt drops to
the ground. Tar to 374.

294
The Gark straightens up, lowers its axe and begins
apologizing to you for being asleep atits post. At its
insistence you 2erce nut to tellanyone, The creature
olfers to take your tunic, but you decline its offer
and press onwards. Turn to gg.
295-298

295

You concentrate and begin to turn yourself into a
Giant Scorpion, The Dsvarf and the Goblin stop in
their tracks, bul the Orc behaves as if nothing has
happened, The other two see you sting the Ore with
your tail, but the Orc does not flinch and calls the
other two on, Seeing that you have dane no dam-
aye, they shake their heads and look again to see the
real you. The Orc tries to grab you. Turn t 243.

296
The key turns and the door opens. Turn to 292.

297

You slam the door shut behind you and, above the
clanging bell, you can hear the sound of footsteps.
running quickly and getting claser. The corridor
ahead forks two ways. Will you spring ahead and
take the right fork (turn to 2), or the left fork (turn to
316) — or will you go back through the doorand nng
for the butler (turn to 75)?

298
As your hands close around the chalice, it begins to
fizz and foam, spitting at you as you raise it to your
lips. Are you sure you want to taste it? If not, turn
back te 58 and make another choice — but if you are
determined, turn to 141.

299-302

The key will not tum, no matter how hard you try.
in your frustration, you throw the box on the
sround —and it vanishes! You grope around for the
invisible box but cannot feel it anywhere. In total
despair, you turn towards the door and set off once
more towards your goal. Turn to 237-

00
Throw one die. lf you voll a1, 2 or 3, then this
mumber of knives hit vou (each knife does 2
STAMINA points’ worth of damage). If you rolla 4, 5
or 6, then they miss you. You must prepare to
counter-attack either with an Mlusion Spell (turn to
244), or by drawing your sword (turn ta 346),

301
You feel strength surging through your body. You
try to wrestle with the head of this creature but its
Own strength seems also to have increased lo match
yours, Your les is now useless and covered in blood,
Your strength begins to fade, and as it does so, the
creature's jaws clase on your throal. Consciousness
fades. Turn to 323.

302
They order you tu take a trax of food Lhrough a door
in the far wallinto the Great Hall and leave it on the
table, as the Ganjees will soon be down for their
supper. They also warn you net & wait for the
Ganjees, or you are likely to wind up as the next
meal You take the tray and leave through the far
3N43 As gua enter the romnt, ie cramture Creaks as its hand toms
treads ud.

5035304
door, Glad to be out of their repulsive kitchen, you
follow a passageway onwards, pause to leave the

tray behind, and continue to another door. You bry
the handle and it opens. Turn te 169.

393
The Golem advances and you slash at it with your
sword. Your sword hits solid rock and clangs noisi-
ly. You will have to resolve this battle and deduct 1
SKIL1. point during the fight:

GOLEM SKILLS STAMINA 10

if you defeat the creature, turn to 147.

304
The door opens and you enter the room. [t is quite

large and is decorated with various carvings. It
looks something like an artist's studio and a number
of unfinished stone statues line one wall. In the
centre of the room, a large stane GARGOYLE is
standing on a stone-carved box. As you enter the
room, the creature creaks as its head turns towards
vou. Slowly it comes alive, hopping down off its
pedestal. It blocks your way through the room toa
door on the far side. What will you do:

Draw your sword and advance? Turn to 172
Prepare to cast a Spell? Turn tu 26
Look through your bag for

something to use? Turn tu 289
Nip out of this room and try

the middle door? Tum tu 64
agate

305-307
395

You throw the Jar at the Gargoyle. lt smashes but
does no damage. The creature swipes outat you and
hits you in the chest, knocking you over. Lose 2
STAMINA points, You had better leave this room
quickly and head along the balcony to the middle
door. Turn to 64.

'
a
Vr rion. —— —_—_—_ —
whe —— — —_—_—

a

306
A short distance further on, a door blocks the pas-
sareway. Ln fact, thisis only a hali-door and is about
waist-high to you. A sign by the door points on-
wards and says ‘Players Only’. Will you push open
this door {turn tu 52), or turn back ard enter the
roam with the fancy door (tarn to 132)?

307
As you cast the Spell, the creature lunges at you and
clips your arm with its pike. Lose 2 51 AMTNA points.

308-310
Then the Weakness Spell takes effect. ‘The creature
slows down and starts puffing and panting. You
draw your sword and advance to finish him oif.

REINO-MAN SKILt

If you defeat him, you may enter the Citadel. Turn
tc) 177-

STAMINA F

308
The handle turns and you slep into a dark room.
Turn to 257-

309

You both go through the tall man’s pockels. You
find 20 Gold Pieces, which you split equally, and
You toss up for the dasger; heads you getit, tails he
does (foss acoim for {his}. lf you get the dagger, turn to
15- lf not, tum to 245.

310

Will vou use:
A Creature Copy Spell? Turn to 182
An Illusion Spell? Tum to 250
An E.S.P. Spell? Turn to 393

if you have none of these, return to 104 and choose
again.
311-312

311
You concentrate hard, mumbling your Spell’s m-
cantations. One of the old women notices you and
shouts to the other two. You cast your Spell — but
nothing happens! You glance at the old hags, who
are smiling al you. ‘We cannot allow vou to use
Magic azainst our pet,’ says one of them. You have
wasted a Spell. Cross one (of vour choice) off your
Spells. Now the Devlin ts almost on you and you
wil] have to either dive for cover (turn to 178), or
draw your sword (turn to 62).

312
You’ hold up the Mirror. This seems to have little
effect on the creature, which continues its advance.
One head springs forwards and knocks the mirror
from your hands, smashing it on the floor. You try
ta decide what to do next. Turn to 184.

313-315 |
333

The fruit is sweet and juicy. You eat one, then
another —it tastes delicious! Gain 2 STAMINA points.
But to rour surprise, a5 you try to clear your throat
afterwards, not a sound comes from your mouth.
You have eaten a Fruit of Silence. Its peculiar effect
is only temporary, but you wall not be able to speak
properly for some time although you will be able to
make yourself understood with difficulty. This
means, in effect, that you will not be able to use your
magic (the next time a Spells option is given) but
after this you will return to normal. You may con-
tinue either through the door in the left-hand wall
(turn to 13), or through the door opposite the one
vou have just come through (turn to 287).

314
You try to concentrate, creating the illusion that the

sorcerer is likewise in a shaking room. The Spell is
cast (and you must cross it off your list) but it has no
effect; you cannot concentrate fully. Balthus Dire is
almost upon you. Tum ta 373-

345

Balthus Dire falls into a state of concentration as you
fiddle with your Pocket Myriad. You press one
button and a shimmering light comes from it, ex-
tending to about sword- ‘length. This is a Sun-Sword
and will add < points te your skiLL when you fight
with it! You firm to face the sorcerer, who has been
concentrating on a Spell. urn to 191.
Fiesies TATE 7

316 Tisey nai fry curtioherding slong ot guste 2 roped ray

316-317

316

the footsteps you heard — which really ought to be
called ‘handsteps’ — belong to three WHEELIES
which now roll down the passageway towards you,
forcing you back to the door. These creatures are
peculiar beasts having, instead of legs, an extra set
of hands. They move br cartwheeling along at quite
a rapid pace. Their heads—orat least their faces—are
set in the centre of their chests, While they are not
well-practised at swordsmanship piven their awk-
ward means of movement, they are excellent knife-
throwers. Grasping knives from their belts as they
spin along, they can launch them at a rapid-fire
pace, like large catherine wheels. At the moment,
three such knives are speeding their way towards
you. You may either use a Shielding Spell to protect
you (furn to 220) or fest your Luck. If you opt for the
latter and are lucky, turn to 139- If you are Unlucky,
turn to 300.

317

The paintings are portraits of various Lords and
Earls prominent in the Kingdom of Craggen Rack.
Behind a chair at the head of the table is a portrait of
Balthus Dire himself. He does indeed look a power-
ful adversary. Add 1 LUck point for the warning of
his appearance, but lose 1 STAMINA point for the
feeling of fear he instils. You may now continue
either up the left-hand staircase (tum tc 19}, or the
right-hand staircase (tum to 197).
318-320

318

the sorcerer is showing signs of mental exhaustion
and is slaw to react as you stop behind him. You
notice he is wearing a eold nny with a large ruby set
in it on the index finger of his right hand, which
hangs by his side. You may either try to grab the
rings from his finger (Lurn to 381), draw your sword
quickly (turn to 117), or search through your back
pack for an artefact to use (turn Lo 277).

319
You concentrate on your arm. It begins ta harden
and tums the dull metallic colour of iron. The old
man’s eves widen as he sees your iran forearm. You
wrestle to free yourself but still his iceth keep their
grip. Lose 2 STAMINA pvints and cross off your
Musion Spell. Your illusion obviously wasn’t con-
vincing cnough. You go for your sword. Turn to

333:-

a,

Gane — —— —. —

ares a
allie gin oe oem

320
You concentrate hard, bul try as you migh?, you
receive none of Balthus Dire’s thoughts — he is
blocking your Spell! You may continue with an
llusion Spell (turn tu 332), a Weakness Spell (tum to
113), Or you ma¥ draw your sword to attack him
(turn to 352}.

322529

Cautiously. and keeping well out of sight, you creep
through the darkness around the edge of the court-
vard. There are two groups of creatures in front af
you. To the right, you can see Gvo human-like
figures talking under a torch fastened to the wall. To
the left, a group of four creatures, ol varying shapes
and sizes, are sitting around a fire, eating. Will you
approach the two by the torch (Lurn to 269), or the
group around the fire (turn ter 33g)?

322

What will you pull from your backpack?
A Spider ina Jar? Turn &> 39
A Charmed Amulet? Turn to 168
A Jar of Ointment? Tum to 291

if you have none of these, you will have to draw
your sword and face them (turn to 248).

323
You awake and look armund. As your memory
returns, you are amazed thal you can see! Your leg
feels tender, but is uninjured! You hear a small
chuckle coming from above you and suddenly the
whole thing makes sense: -

Floating above you is O’Seamus, now laughing
loudly. The whole thing has been one big practical
joke! You are enraged and leap to your feet, but as
you glare at the funny little man rolling about in the
air in hysterics, you can’t help but see the funny side
324

too. You chuckle, then giggic, then laugh loudly.
For some time the two of you roar with laughter
until tears stream down your faces.

When you are both able ta contral yourselves, you
eventually settle down to chat. He isa pleasant little
man. Before you leave, he says, ‘Indeed you are a
good sport. Your way ahead is fraught with danger,

though. But perhaps these will help you.” With a
wave of his hand, a sword anda plate appear on the
table, The swordisa Magic battlesword and willadd
1 point to the dice roll when throwing for your
Attack Sireneth. The plateis, in fact, a Silver Mirror of
fine workmanship. You may take these with you,
but you will have to leave your old sword behind.
Leave the room through either:

The brass-handled door Tum to 356
ihe copperhandled door Turn to 144
The bronze-handled door Tum to 338

‘You cannot hide from me!’ he cries. This is indeed
true, and you realize you could be in some danger
while you cannot see him. Turn to 369-

Se ak Lf

325
The creature is somewhat bulky and clumsy, snort-
ing furiously as you avoid his blows. You draw your
sword and fight:

RHINO-MAN SKILL &

If you defeat him, vou may enter the Citadel. Turn
i) 177.

STAMINA G

You replace the book. Will you continue browsing
through the books {turn to 84}, or will you leave
through the door at the far end, behind the librarian
(turn to 31}?

327
They take your Pocket Myriad and play with it
gleefully. While they are suitably distracted, you
can creep past them to the doar on the far side of the
room. Turn to 366. Cross your gift off your Equip-
ment List.
328 A tue, sixheaded Hydni smuikes iccearas ew!

328-329

328

You close the door behind you and find yourself at
the foot of yet another staircase, spiralling up into
the tower. Climbing the stairs, you arrive at another
balcony where a single door is the only way on-
wards. Irying the door, it opens easily. But, as you
push the door, a loud hissing noise comes from
within. You step inside and turn cald as a huge,
six-headed HYDRA snakes towards you over the
bodies of its previous victims! Its six serpent-like
heads dart at you, with vicious pointed teeth. You
cower into the corner. What sill you do:

Draw your sword and fight the

creature? Tum tu 67
Use a Creature Copy Spell? Turn to 143

Use something from vour backpack? Turn ta 226

329

You concentrate on her mind and rou are shocked
to find that she is not alive, as she seems, but has
been dead for many years. Eyer since a raging lire —
a curse put on her by Balthus Dire himself for failing:
to launder his robes in time for an important meet-
ing — burned her and her children to death, her
ghostly body has been doomed to wash clothes for
eternity. Sheis indeed a miserable wretch. You now
notice that she is growing angry and suspicious
with your presence. She is chanting something
under her breath. Will vou attempt fo talk to her
(turn fo 21}, or will you try to move quickly on past
her along the path (turn te 221)?
330-331

The sorcerer shrieks in horroras you pull out the Jar.
Sensing that this little creature mav be a valuable
ally,.you open the Jar and release it. The sorcerer’s
expression changes to a sly smile and, as you watch.
the little Spider-man advances not towards Balthus

Dire, but towards you! You must fight it:
SPIDER-MAN SKILL 7 STAMINA 5

As soon as the creature inflicts its frst wound on
you, turn to 208. If vou defeatit without injury, turn
ti) 119-

334

The Snapperfish’s sharp teeth catch your face and
nose as you try to pull back. Lose 1 SKILL and 3
STAMINA points as you nurse your bloody face. The
three old hags shuffle round the kettle to you and
bundle you off towards the door at the far end of the
kitchen. Shoving you through the door, they taunt
andinsult you, closing the door behind vou_ Turn &
265.

332-333

332

Balthus Dire’s jaw drops as 2 transformation lakes
place in front of his eyes. Your body grows in size
and strength. Your skin hims a deep red and horns
crack through the light skin on your forehead. Your
teeth are sharp black spikes and your tongue, now
forked, hisses menacingly at him. You now stand
before him as a FIRE DEMON and you grab the
Tndent from the ground as a weapon. The sorcerer
TUS away from you in horror. You may either
spring across the table at him {turn to 80}, or com-
mand him to cull off his plans of conquest and
Surrender to rou (turn to 48).

333

You draw yvoursword and prepare to chop him with
it. He glances up at you with a lak thatleads you ta
belies that he is not completely in contro! of his
own actions. With pity, you crack him on the head
with your sword hilt, causing him to howl anc
release his grip. You leave him moaning on the
ground, nursing his head. Lose another 2 STAMINA
pomts for the damage he has done to your arm and
press onwards. Turn fo 14.
334-335

334

You take a couple of sips, Not bad! You take a
mouthful but as you do sv, you wonder why the Elf
is chuckling. Suddenly he asks whether you really
are a guest. Although your mind is confirming that
you are indeed a visitor, your voice is telling him
that you are not; you have come t) put an end to
Balthus Dire‘s plans of conquest! You curse as you
realize that the wine must be spiked with a Truth
Serum. The Black Elf now knows of your mission
and must be prevented from telling others. You
draw your sword and, as you do so, he pulls a small
metallic device from the pouch tied around his
waist. With a touch, it turns into a saw-edged
weapon. Turn to 275.

335
Fixed under the table is a secret drawer, slightly ajar,

and poking oul of the drawer is a scroll of parch-
ment. You grab the scroll and thrust it to yaur
tunic. But you can hear Balthus murmuring under
his breath. A Spell! But what svill this one be? And
what can you do about it? Suddenly he is running
around the table, touching each side as he goes. At
his touch, the table responds with a cracking noise.
‘Turn lo 342.

336-338

336
Resolve your battle with the creature:
GARK SKILL 7 STAMINA EJ

After four Attack Rounds you may Escape through
one of the dours at the far end of the raom (him to
99}, otherwise you may continue and [ight to the
death. If you do so and win, tum to 180-

337
The sorcerer is indeed as great a swordsman as heis
2 wizard. Resolve your battle:

BALTHUS DIRE

li you have managed to steal the sorcerer’s ring, you
may deduct 2 points from his sxILt, as he was
wearing a Ring of Swordsmanship.

lf you defeat Balthus Dire, turn to goo,

SKILL 12 STAMINA 19

338
the door opens into a passageway- You follow the
passageway onwards for some time and it twists
and turns through the rock, You pass another pas-
sageway joining from the right and carry straight
on. Eventually the path widens out. Tum to 90.
‘ é *. = ‘ “7,
339 As vow apsraach, Wiey stor ana ten: to lage at a woe
UMUMIOONMAD feces.

339-341

339

A motler crew sit around the fire. A warty-laced Ore
is handing out scrazey chunks of halfcoaked meat
to the others. A snarling Dwarf with green skin is
complaining about the sive of his piece, while twa
scmuify Goblins—a man and a woman-—are cuddling
each other. They gigple and laugh, and every so
often she slaps his ugly face causing more mern-
ment As you approach they stop and turn round to
look at you with unwelcoming laces. They sneer at
your neat appearance and the female Goblin whis-
pers some comment te her mate. In front of the
Dwarf you can see an open box. You can just make
out 2 vial of liquid within if. Will vou:

Sit down with them around the

fire? Turn ta 134
Ask them whether you may join
them? Tum ta 149
349

You hold up the mirror, but the creature merely
swings al it and smashes it into pieces. You had
better leave the room quickly and try the middle
door on the balcony. Turn to 64.

341
You cast the Spell around yourself and advance.
Four or five arrows sing towards you but stap in the
ait a metre before they reach you, dropping harm-
lessly to the ground. You reach the monument.
Remember to cross the Shielding Spell off your list.
lurn to 209g.
342

The sorcerer stands back from the table and laughs.
‘Now ] have vou, peasant!” he gloats. Cautiously,
you step out from beneath the table. That is, you fry
to step out. But you cannot reach out further than
the table's edge. He has created invisible walls
which now trap you underneath! Try as you might,
you cannot break throuysh his barriers.

You are now his prisoner, You have failed in your
mission , , -

343
A little further along the passage, you arrive at

another fork where you may go cither left (turn to
55), or night (turn to 249).

You follow the stairs downwards. The air is cooland
stagnant. At the foot of the stairs is a door. Will vow
try the door (turn to 7), or climb the stairs again and
go up to the door to the ground floor (turn to 5)?

345-387

345
The creature groans as the Spell takes effect. Its

enormous weight is now a great burden & it. It
shambles towards vou still, but you are able to
sidestep it and head for the door on the far side of
the roam. Turn to 140.

346
As the Wheelies see you draw your sword, they
stop and chatter excitedly, One of them — evidenuly
the leader — sends the smallest one back up the
passasre (presumably to fetch help}. The other two
draw Knives and roll slowly towards you. Resolve

this battle (Aight each in turn):

SKILE STAMINA
First WEIRELIE 7 6
Second WHEELIE 6 5

Ifyou win you may take cither the left-hand passaye
(turn to 243), or the right-hand passage (turn Lo 2).

47
fhe Gorgon sees the mirror and shrieks. You chance
a look at the creature, your yave rising upwards
from its feet. But the Gorgon has disappeared and
mstead Balthus Dire stands once mare before you.
Turn &) 142.
345-349

348

‘Oh, I shouldn't go this way,’ says O'Seamus-
“These are not pleasant parts.” These three doors are
the only ways onward. Tivo of them are vem dan-
geraus and the other is very smelly. On the opposite
side of the room are three doors. One has a brass
handle, one has a copper handle and one has 2
bronze handle. Which will you choose:

The brass-handled door? Turn to 207
The copper-handled door? Turn to 22
The bronze-handled door? Turn to 354
Or will you ask his advice? Turn to 68

349
A replica of Balthus Dire materializes in front of you.
Dire himself raises an eyebrow. ‘Attack!’ you com:
mand the duplicate, who turns towards the centre
of the room and advances. Two metres from the
sorcerer, it stops and clutches its head. It looks up
from its hands, turns and comes tvards you! The
sarcerer laughs. “Two can play at this game! says
Dire. You concentrate and will the replica back
towards Dire. Eventually it ceases iis approach and
turns back as you command. For some moments
this goes on, and you realize that you both have the
power to command this creature, buf only within a

350-352
certain range. Backwards and forwardsit sues, until
the Spell begins to wear off. It gradually fades from
view, The concentration has been somewhat stren-
uous for you. You look up to see Balthus Dire
holding his hands in the air and then bring them
down hard on the table. What magic is he using
now? Turn to 157.

350
You try a simple ploy to get rid of her, hoping that
she is not too intelligent. Looking inty the shadows,
you claim to see another similar creature. She claims
you are mistaken, but you are convincing. She nips
olf to investigate, allowing you to rush to the Citadel
entrance. Turn to 228-

354
As you advance with yoursword drawn, the sorcer-
er pulls a scimitar from his belt. *Yes,’ he gloats, ‘I
will take great delight in finishing this off with
weapons? And with those words he leaps over the
table towards you. The battle to follow will bea fight
to the death:

BALTHUS DIRE

¢ you slay the sorcerer, turn to 4oo.

SKILL. 12 STAMINA 19

.
- . ’

.o A

,
.
° 4
< eee
>>
7 _ 7 2 >
= .
£ Se =
. ] 5
at
+s *
- “

’
ns
a

~

352 One eye opens, Mien anothey ane, sary yee, the crealare
sprites 10 its feet!

352-353
be

You tiptoe into the room. The room is gloomy and
the air is damp. A crude wooden post is nailed to
one wall with several hooks on it. There are twa
doors in the far wall leading onwards, On the
post, hanging on the wall, is a makeshift mirror but
as your torch lights up the mirror, its reflection is
thrown across the eyes of the sleeping giant, wha
erunts and stirs. One eye opens, then another and,
seeing you, if springs to its feet! It prabs an axe,
which it was using as a pillow, and quickly undoes
the leather sheath to reveal a sharp bronze head.
This giant creature is a GARK! Large and brutish,
Garks are half-Goblin, half-Giant, bred by master
sorcerers for their ageressive character. Although
somewhat stupid, they are rather tough beasts with
2 war-like nature. Will you:

Make a dash for the doors? Turn to 203
Draw your sword, ready fora
fight? Turn tu 16
Apologize for disturbing the
creature? Turn to 216
Prepare to use a Spell? ‘Turn to 12
353

Many deadly weapons are inside the cabinet, buta
blue-honed sword takes vour eve. Balthus Dire sees
you take this sword and flies into a rage. “Do not
touch that weapon!’ he screams. But he is tao late;
you have it in your hands. ’So be it,’ he says, sliding
@ Scimitar from his own belt and advancing towards
354-356
you. The battle to follow will, you realize, be a fight
to the death.

BALTHUS DIRE

Your new weapon is an enchanted sword which will
add two points to your dice roll when determining
your Attick Sfrengii.

SKILL 12 STAMINA 19

If you win, turn to 400.

354
You open the door and step into another room, glad

to have left the annoying little creature behind. Turn
to 188.

355
If you will not (or cannot) use your magic, you will

have to rely on your sword. Draw your sword and
turn to 351.

They are somewhat relieved thal you mean them no
harm, and settle back on to the floor, inviting you to
join them. [he room is small and plain and bits of
greenery have been mounted on the wails, presum-
ably for decoration, although the leaves are now
wilted and long-dead. A small fire burns in one

356

comer, under a hole in the ceiling. Pwo doors are in
the wall opposite vou; one on the left, the other on
the right. You sit down fora chat. You discover that
these small. skinny creatures call themselves
SCOUTS and they are indeed a likeable lot, joking
and laughing with you. You decide not to risk
telline them too much of your mission, but you ask
general questions about the place. Balthus Dire is
the master of the house and spends most of his time
high up im the Citadel. Ilis ladywife is a beautiful
sorceress who is very vain and who enjovs the
things that money and power can buy. There are
many evil creatures within the Citadel, but you
must be particularly careful of the Ganjees, who
roam the Tower at night. Eventually you get up,

thank them for the chat and prepare to press on,
You may add 2 STAMINA and 1 LUCK point for the
rest and information you have gained. The Scouts
also offer to daa good deed for you betore you fo, as
ther have also enjoyed your company. You may
either-

Take them up on their offer Tum to 146
Decide not to risk it and

leave through the door on

the left ‘Turn to 185
Leave through the door on the

right Turn to 23

357-359

357
‘The creature is apparently deaf-mute. You hail itm
all the languages you know, but it continues to
stand silently. You make a move towards the centre
of the room. Turn to 200.

wa =
wwe ike me —

a Pe
oe

358
Unfortunately, you are not in much of a position
issue idle threats, The sorcerer merely laughs loudly
and tithtens his hold. He tells vou to reconsider, or
your death is certain. Will you continue to refuse his
offer, not wishing to turn traitor to vour country:
men (turn to 148), or will you agree to come under
his command [turn to 256)?

359
You try te duck, but cannot avoid the full impact ot
the missile, which hits vou on the forehead end
splatters all over your face, You brace yourself,
waiting perhaps for an acidic reaction to take place,

360-361

but the mushy liquid merely drips off your face on to
the ground. Cautiously vou test it, first with your
inger, then with your tongue. You have just been
hit by a ripe tomato! You turn to face the sleeping
igure once more. Tum to 29.

ee

Am.

360
You cast another Spell, Your partially-formed
Hydra grows a little more, but is still not complete.
You will need one more Creature Copy Spell to form
a whole creature. If you svish to cast this third Spell,
do so and let the Hydras fight to the death:

HYDRA

ii vour creation wins, turn to 229. If your creature
loses, or if you did not have enough Spells to
complete the creation, you must decide what to do
next (turn to 284).

SKILL 10 STAMINA 17

-\gem the door opens but as you open it, you hear
the deafening clanging of an alarm bell! Test your
fuck. If you are Lucky, turn to 297, If you are
Unlucky, tum to 126, ;
abst Ald hae »
SCG at

462 Fluttering araund the 2iter are fires ua mgt
gremlin Ape creuhines.

362-364
362

The door opens and the small room inside is lit by
candiclight. Cautiously you look inside to see a
strange sight. On a stone altarin the middle of the
chamber are three silver chalices, each containing a
different-coloured liquid; one clear, one red and one
milky. Fluttering around the altar are three small
winged gremlin-type creatures, all chirping excited-
ly. Every so often one lands on the altar and takes a
sip of the milky liquid. The open door creaks on its
hinges and startles them. They whirl round to see
you and become very excited. You may either enter
the chamber (turn to 58), or close the door quickly
and press onwards towards the Citadel (turn to
156).

363
Along the balcony are 3 doors. Will you try:
The door te the leit? Turn to 228
The door im the centre? Turn to 64
The door to the right? Turn to 304
364

As your Spell takes effect, you see a small mouse
run tuwards the table, You curse as you realize that
the Spefl cannot have worked properly. But hope
returns as one of the Calacorm’s heads sees the
mouse and leoks horrified! The other head sudden-
ly nofices it, and both throats shriek together! The
creature jumps up on to the table, and the Calacorm
scrcams in terror as the harmless little mouse
365

approaches, sniffing fastidiously at the ground on
the way. You let the Calacorm suffer for some
moments and then call out that you will get rid of
the mouse for him, if he will release you. Me agrees
quickly and throws you the keys. You lel yourself
out, grab your sword which was leaning against the
wall and set off down the passageway. A sate
distance away, you break your Spell and the mouse
disappears. Tim to 174.

365

Yau have chosen a deadly gambling game which is
outlawed in most kingdoms. Since you have chosen
to play, you must play at least one game, bul you
may play more if you wish. Your Games Master is

an apprentice sorcerer and he has selected a choice
of prizes for you. Lf you survive, you may claim
either: two extra Spells (which you may choose from
the list at the beginning of the book}, 50 Gold Pieces,
or an Enchanted Breastplate {svhich will allow you
to deduct 2 points from a creature’s dice roll when
throwing for its Allack Strengiti).

‘The game is played like this: six daggers lie on a
table, Oneis a real weapon while the other five have
spring-loaded blades and will do you no harm. You
are playing the game against one of the other crva-
tures in the rexom and only one of you will survive
In turn, you must select one of the daggers and stab
yourself in the chest with it. If the dagger is real,
death is certain. Witis adummy, it mustbe retumed
te the table te be shuffled back in with the other five.

366-367

The game continues until one of you selects the rea]
dagserand stabs vourself through the heart, where-
upon the survivor can claim the prize. Your oppo-
nent will make the first selection. Throw one dit for
him. Then do the same for yourself. As s00n as one
of you rolls a 6, the real dagyer has been chosen. If
this is you, vou will have killed yourself!

Now knowing the rules of the game, you can only
set out of playing at least once by casting an Mlusion
Spell (turn te gj. Otherwise you must play. After
vou have played, you may either play Six Pick (turn
to 172), Runestones (turn to 278), or you may bid
your ‘Iriends’ farewell and leave the room (turn to
32).

366
AS ¥ou Stride past them, the little creatures watch
you silently. They seem merely to find you interest-
ing. You feel that something is not quite right here.
Turn to 140.

367
Some way along the passage, you arrive at a four-
way junction. You take a path to the north, which
eventually leads you to a large wooden dopr. You
can hear nothing by listening al the keyhole. Will
you fry to open the door slowly and quietly (turn to
308), or charge the door down (turn to 121)?

- ———— —

sees =—* a

wt
368-370

368
You go through both their pockets and find 28 Gold
Pieces, which you take with you. As you are about
tu press on, you remember the dagger — the source
of the argument— and pickit up. Turn to 4s.

369

You must see what he is doing. As you fry to peck
around the curtain, you feel it flapping around you
as if in a wind — although no wind is blowing. The
curtain is tightening itself around you. You
struggle, but the heavy drape is engulfing you- Itis
around your throat and head, and yim are gasping
for breath, Still vou struggle on, but to no avail- You
begin to feel faint, knowing that once you lose
consciousness, the battle will be his. But there is
nothing you can do. Your world goes black -

You have failed in your mission.

370
The box is solidly made and you cannot break the

lock with your hands. You draw’ yoursword to trr to
hack it off and, as you do so, the box falls on your
shin, causing a nasty cut. Deduct 2 sTaMINa points.
Your sword will not break the lock. Will you:

Try to open the first box? Tum to 260
Try to open the second bex? Turn tu 129
Forget the boxes and press

onwards? Turn ta 237

371-373

The creature grunts and opens the door tolet vou in.
Tum to 177.

372

As you cast your Shielding Spell, a bottle hits you on
the shoulder. You feel nothing. Something is nat
quite right, and you try t cancel your Spell. Unfor-
tunately it has already been cast and you can see the
bottles smashing into the magic shield vou have
created. Ihe bottle which has hit you has dis-
appeared. You curse as you realize that the wine
you just tasted must have had some hallucinatory
properties and you are imagining the bottle attack.
As this idea dawns on you, the bottles cease pelting
you. You blink and look again. All the bottles are in
place on their racks as normal! You decide to press
onwards, Turn to 95.

373
Balthus Dire kneels down beside you. He grabs

your wrists with one hand and you can feel his
great physical power, matching his obvious powers
of sorcery. ‘Peasant,’ he says, ‘you are indeed a
worthy adversary. Your power exceeds thal of most
wizards, ltisa shame to let such talent ga ta waste. |
may kill you now, or E can offer another option. Join
with me in my plan to conquer the Yale of Willow, It
shall be yours to govern when we succeed. What
say you?’

eumtimend! nerriot
374

Whatis your reply?

—

“Never, I will not turn against

my countryfolk!’ Turn to 148
‘Taccept vour offer.’ (You plan to

outwit him when he releases

you.) Turn to 256
“‘Balthus Dire, you are evil! Tam not

Si defeated yet! (You plan to cast
Biers another Spell at him.} lurn to 358
Sqh || : 374

As you compose yourself after your fright, you
glance around the room. Itis obviously some sort of
Military Headquarters. Scrolls with strategic maps
hang from the walls, as do portraits of past generals.
A bookcase in one corner holds hundreds of leather-
bound volumes, Ornate drapes are drawn across a
large window. A cabinet along pne wall halds pikes
and swords of a variety of deadly shapes and sizes.
In the centre of the roum is a model landscape which
you recognize as the Vale of Willow. Armics of
miniature troops are positioned on the made], This
must be the invasion plan!

ne

ole eS
. rie i,
Ph hip '
. Po Lae

Ry ined
Rl of @e lan

oct

<

Sib ——

>
—
—=-
—
—

tae
Hetil -
i va
' ij ri}
| ad

<=
Niks =

PRS
= ts
4

pas } } Leaning against the table, with eyes fixed on you; is
oy Tf St Balthus Dire himself! His very stature is formidable.
Se Psp ; a a7 :
Scat See Well ovef two metres tall, he is built like an ox, with
474. Laating agaist the tublle, with bis cues fred ox wow, is Balthos broad shoulders and muscular arms. In his battle
BP) ates, ag © #e08. -=t, 5 wets " ie L. - = x z 7 :
Use Teimel! tunic ol leather with wide, studded wristbands, he
looks more a soldier than the demi-sorcerer he
really is.

continued overienf
375-376

Tmpudent peasant! he growls, ‘Do you think you
are any match for Balthus Dire?’ With these words
he snaps his fingers and you hear a grunting from
behind. You swing round to see a grotesque crea-
ture shambling towards you. Its hairy body has four
arms, each ending im yicious- looking hooks. As it
approaches, it slashes the airin front of it. “Why,
wager you are not even a match fora CLAWBEAST®
laughs Dire. Will you:

Draw your sward to defend

yourself? lurn to30
Casta Shielding Spell? Tum to 109
Cast a Weakness Spell? Turn to 158

375
He indicates a bouk on the shelf which is an
alphabvtical listing of all sorts of creatures. Will you
turn to the section on:

Calacorms? Turn to 263
Miks? Tum to 135
Ganjecs? Turn to 63

376
You cast your Shielding Spell. Alas and alack, this
Spell is inettective against magical weapons! The
jets of fire sear straight through your shield and
burn into your own eyes. Screaming in pain you
drop to the flovr. The curtain of death drops over
you.

You have failed in your mission.

377-379

377
You pick yourself up and concentrate, What will

your next attack be?
An Ilusion Spell?
A Weakness Spell?
An ESP. Spell?
None of these?

Turn tu 332
lurn to 113
Tum to 320
Turn lo 355

378

You take a few steps forwards and another arrow
narrowly misses your foot. Afew more steps andan
arrow rips through vour tunic, grazing your fore:
arm. You can still see ne-one at all, nor can you see
where the arrows are coming from. After another
few steps, another arrow appears, but this one
pierces your calf. You cry out loud — and you must
lose 4 STAMINA points — but you are almost al the
monument, which sill provide shelter, You leap
forward and duck behind it until the arrows cease.

Turn ti 209.

379
You release the rope and float into the air. Dropping
back on te the ground on the rim of the trench, you
curse at the fiendish trap that had been laid lor
greedy adventurers like yoursell. You move an to
the door opposite your entrance and try the handle,
Turn to 206.

380-383

380
As you sit down they rise to their feet. The Dwarf
picks up a club and springs at you, while the Goblin
and the Ore grab swords. The Goblin’s mistress
gives a cry and jumps outof the way, retreating back
intu the darkness. Turn to 213-

381
fest your Lick. If you are Lucky, the ring slides off
his finger and you now hold it in your hand. If you
are Untucky, the ring sticks and does not come free.
Your snatch fires Balthus Dire into action and he
turns on you with his sword, Turn to 337.

382
They rush round the floor in panic, bumping into
each other and crying, ‘Oh my, oh dear, this
straner lonks nasty, where are our weapons?’ You
laugh at their disorder and put away your sword.
They calm down and stare at you. You may either
press onwards (turn to 285), or talk to them (turn to

356)-

83
The old man’s nek begins to return as the
Stamina Spell takes effect (deduct this spell from
your Spells), He tells you he was beaten about the
head by cruel Ganjees, who delight in thuggerv-
You bring the conversation round to the Citadel
itself. Suddenly, for no apparent reason, 2 stab oF
pain from within grips him. His eyes narrow to slits
and he throws himself forward, sinking his teeth —

384-386
sharp teeth at that — into your arm. Deduct 2
STAMINA points. Will you beat him olf with your
sword (turn to 333), or use a Magic Spell ta free
yourself (turn to 189}?

You fiddle with the gadget and suddenly a lony,
thin line unwinds itself from the shaft. You decide
to try to snare the creature’s heads with the line,
which has a hook ononeend. Youcast the line at the
creature. Throw one die. If you throw a 5 or 6, turn
to 252. If you throw 2 1, 2, 3 or 4, turn to 107.

385
They clap you on the back and welcome you in. A
dark-skinned, wiry creature thrusts a mug of grog
into your hand. You drink the ale down in one.
Another mug comes. Add 2 STAMINA points, as the
ale is quite refreshing. Then they invite you tv jain
in their games. Will you play:

Knifey-Knifey? Turn to 365
Runestones? Turn to 278
Six Pick? Turn to 172

386
Outside the door, the passage slopes downwards
and vou follow it for several minutes. You notice an
unpleasant smell which gets stronger and stranger
as you go. Eventually you come to an opening.
connines suerlant
“eases

sho
‘

=a ete li | Mitts.

ita iy ae

é

"bas.

386 Yin oo; sees derse open seceer Howie across the pussagewey.

387-339

Looking through it, holding your nose, you can sce
a large open sewer flowing across the passageway.
A rope hangs down from the ceiling. Will you wade
across the sewer (turn to 204), or try to grab the rope
and swing across (turn to 108)?

387
Atthe mention ofa Silver Mirror, she rises, holds up
her hands, and commands her Ghosts te stap. You
give her the Mirror and she bids you on your way,
You are lucky to be alive. Turn to 6-

388

His whole body strains with effort. Several mo-
ments later he regains his composure and once
asain looks at you. “Weakness!” he mocks, ‘Surely
you don’t think ! could be defeated with a mere
Weakness Spell.” He has obviously managed to
fight it off and now prepares to launch a caunter-
attack. Tur to 157.

389
As you approach the spit, one of the old women
throws some powder on to the tire, and the three of
them step back, cackling. You are on your guard. As
you watch, the fire begins lo roar and the flames
grow menacingly. Suddenly, several of the flares
spring from the fire and take the shape of a DEV-
LIN, a Dwarf-sized creature, made of fire itscli!
The three hays point towards you and the Devlin

advances.
confined overeat
399-393

Will you:
Draw your sword and prepare to
fight it? Turn to 61
Look for caver? Tum to178
Prepare a Spell? Turn to 313

390
She begins to torment you, blowing you off your
feet each time you rise. Test wour Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 350. If you are Unlucky. turn t 122.

394
The Gark takes your 3 Gold Pieces, puts them into a
pouch around its waist and shows you onwards to
the doors. It asks you whether you would like to go
to the Library (right-hand door} or the Games Room
(left-hand door). Turn to go.

392
The key turns and the door opens. ‘Turn to 196-

393
You cast your Spell and concentrate on the three

changing creatures. Images flash before you. As
vou fit them together, you realize these creatares
are MIKS, and ate able to transform themselves into
anyone, or anything, they wish. They are thinking
of you and are not the least bit worned by your
presence — more likely they see you as sport. Every
so often, though, they are thinking of gold and their
emotions indicate a great greed. Perhaps this will be
your passport to safety. Ifyou have any Gold Pieces,
tum to 27. Lf you have no gold, you had better leave

394-397
the room quickly and try the other dar. Tum to 25-

The creatures look at each other as if the name
sounds familiar but they can’t quite place it. You
quickly add that he is on the first floor watch. ‘They
shrug and eventually decide you may be telling the
truth. The Ape-Dog summons the gatekeeper who
cventually appears to let you in. Turn to 257,

395

You cast your Spell and concentrate, creating: the
Hhasion that you are a powerful sorcerer and you are
becoming fired of their pranks. But nothing hap-
pens! Again a mocking laugh comes at you from all
sides. ‘We are magical creatures ourselves,’ says a
voice, “though not such amateurs as you!’ Sud-
denly you feel a blow in the middle of vour back
which knocks you inta the middle of the roam, Lase
2 STAMINA points, Will vou fumble in your back-
pack for something to use (turn ta 322}, or draw
your sword {turn to 248)? If you have nol yet tricela
Fire Spell on them you may clo su (turn ta 45)-

396
Turn to 183.

397
This is notmuch ofa meal, butvou were hungry and
thirsty and this offering restores 2 STAMINA points.
Now vou may either call out the Calacorm (turn to
69), or choose a Spell to try Lo get vou out of this
Situation {turn ta 1g3)-
398-400

You cast the spell and your strength returns to en-
able you to finish off the steps. As you reach the top
the effects wear off once more. You may now set off
along the wall towards the Black Tower. Turn to 79-

399
You cast the Spell. The Elf approaches and, as he
does sa, the Pocket Myriad disappears from his
hand! He stands before you, apparently defence-
less, nervously deciding whether to fight on or run.
You can nip in quickly and cut him down:

BLACK ELF SKILL 4 STAMINA 4
if you win, turn te 272.

400

Balthus Dire, lying at your fect, is dead. Your mis-
sion has been completed! The Vale of Willow is safe
from altack — for the time being al least.

Ta make sure his plan is destroyed, you take the
drapes from the window and spread them across
the table on which his battle pian is laid out. Taking
a candle, you set fire to the rich curtains. As the
flames lick the table you consider your own escape.
Do you have a Levitation Spell left? If so, you may
east it and float out through the window to the
safety of the ground below. If not, then you will
need to recall your teserves of skill and cunning to
avoid the guards and dangers of the Citadel on your
escape. But thatis anuther story. ..
