Only the foolhardy would risk an
counter with ne unknown perils t
lurk in the murky*depths of Dark
Forest. Yet there is no alternative, for
= quest ts a desperate race against
to find the missing pieces of the
ry Hammer of Stonebridge —
joned by Dwarfs to protect the
illagers of Stonebridge against their
seers /
ik ead cil and an eraser are all
to take your journey, YOU
decides wide paths to take, which
il to. risk and which monsters to

et al)

lan Livingstone

The FOREST
OF DOOM

Ln oniinal lantasy adventure in which YOU
oce the hero! Complete with
eombal svstem, monster
vneaunters anc score sheet

PUFFIN BOOKS

THE
FOREST OF DOOM

Only the foolhardy or the very brave would willingly risk a
journey into Darkwood Forest, where strange, twisting
paths wind their way into the eerie depths, Who knows
what monstrous creatures lurk in the threatening shadows,
or what deadly adventures await the unwary traveller? Do
YOU dare to enter?

In a desperate race against time, deep within Darkwood,
your quest 1s to find the missing pieces of the legendary
Hammer of Stonebridge, which was fashioned by Dwarfs to
protect peaceful Stonebridge against its ancient doom

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you need to embark
on this thrilling adventure of sword and sorcery, complete
with its elaborate combat system and a score sheet to record
your gains and losses

Niany dangers lie ahead and your success is by no means
certain. Powerful adversaries are ranged against you and
often your only choice is to kill or be killed!

Two more Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks are published in
Puffin: The Warlock of Firetoep Mountain and The Citadel of
Chaos.

Jan Livingstone

The FOREST
OF DOOM

Illustrated by Malcolm Barter

Puffin Books

For Liz and Carol

Puffin Books, Penguin Books Lid, Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England
Penguin Books, 4o West 23rd Street, New York, New York Tonto, USA
Penguin Books Australia Ltd, Ringwood, Victoria, Australia
Penguin Books Canada Ltd, 2801 John Street, Markham, Onrariv, Canada L4R Ip4
Penguin Books (NZ) Ltd, 182-190 Wairau Road, Auckland 10a, New Zealand

First published 1983
Reprimed 1983 (four times)

Copyright © lan Livingstone, 1983
Illustrations copyright (¢; Malcolm Barter, 1983
All nights reserved

Ser in Linotron Palating by
Rowland Phatotypeseting Ltd,
Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk
Printed and bound in Great Britain by
Cox & Wyman Ltd, Reading

Except in the United States of America.
this book is sold subject to the condition
that it shall not, by way of trade or otherwise,
be lent, re-sold, hired out, or otherwise circulated
withoul the publisher’s prior consent in any form of
binding or cover other chan that m which jr is
published and without a similar condition
including this condition being imposed
on the subsequenc purchaser

CONTENTS

HOW TO FIGHT THE CREATURES OF
DARKWOOD FOREST

9
EQUIPMENT AND POTIONS
16
HINTS ON PLAY
17
ADVENTURE SHEET
18
BACKGROUND
20

THE FOREST OF DOOM

HOW TO FIGHT THE CREATURES
OF DARKWOOD FOREST

Before embarking on your adventure, you must first
determine your own strengths and weaknesses.
You have in your possession a sword and a back-
pack containing provisions (food and drink) for the
trip. You have been preparing for your quest by
training yourself in swordplay and exercising vigor-
ously to build up your stamina.

To see how effective your preparations have been,
you must use the dice to determine your initial
SKILL and STAMINA scores. On pages 16—19 there is
an Adventure Sheet which you may use to record the
details of an adventure. On it you will find boxes for
recording your SKILL and STAMINA Scores.

You are advised to either record your scores on the
Adventure Sheet in pencil, or make photocopies of
the page to use in future adventures.

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter this
total in the sKILL box on the Adventure Sheet.

Roll both dice. Add 12 to the number rolled and
enter this total in the STAMINA box.

There is also a LucK box. Roll one die, add 6 to this
number and enter this total in the LucK box.

9
For reasons that will be explained below, sKILL,
STAMINA and LUCK scores change constantly dur-
ing an adventure, You must keep an accurate record
of these scores and for this reason you are advised
either to write small in the boxes or to keep an eraser
handy. But never rub out your Initial scores.
Although you may be awarded additional sxKILL,
STAMINA and LUCK points, these totals may never
exceed your Initial scores, except on very rare occa-
sions, when you will be instructed on a particular
page.

Your SKILL score reflects your swordsmanship and
general fighting expertise; the higher the better.
Your STAMINA score reflects your general con-
shtution, your will to survive, your determination
and overall fitness; the higher your STAMINA score,
the longer you will be able to survive. Your Luck
score indicates how naturally lucky a person you
are. Luck~ and magic ~ are facts of life in the fantasy
kingdom you are about to explore.

Battles

You will often come across pages in the book which
instruct you to fight a creature of some sort. An
option to flee may be given, but if not — or if you
choose to attack the creature anyway — you must
resolve the battle as described below.

First record the creature’s SKILL and STAMINA
scores in the first vacant Monster Encounter Box on

19

Se

your Adventure Sheet. The scores for each creature
are given in the book each time you have an encoun-
ter.

The sequence of combat is then:

i. Roll both dice once for the creature. Add its SKILL
score. This total is the creature’s Attack Strength.

2. Roll both dice once for yourself. Add the number
rolled to your current SKILL score. This total is
your Attack Strength.

3. If your Attack Strength is higher than that of the
creature, you have wounded it. Proceed to step
4. If the creature’s Attack Strength is higher than
yours, it has wounded you. Proceed to step 5. If
both Attack Strength totals are the same, you
have avoided each other's blows — start the next
Attack Round from step 1 above.

4. You have wounded the creature, so subtract 2
points from its STAMINA score. You may use
your Luck here to do additional damage (see
over).

5. The creature has wounded you, so subtract 2
points from your own STAMINA score. Again you
may use LUCK at this stage (see over).

6. Make the appropriate adjustments to either the
creature’s or your OWN STAMINA scores (and
your LUCK score if you used LUCK — see over).

7. Begin the next Attack Round by returning to
your current SKILL score and repeating steps 1-6.
This sequence continues until the STAMINA score
of either you or the creature you are fighting has
been reduced to zero (death).

17

Escaping

On some pages you may be given the option of
running away from a battle should things be going
badly for you. However, if you do run away, the
creature automatically gets in one wound on you
(subtract 2 STAMINA points) as you flee. Such is the
price of cowardice, Note that you may use Luck on
this wound in the normal way (see below), You may
only Escape if that option is specifically given to you
on the page. .

Fighting More Than One Creature

If you come across more than one creature in a
particular encounter, the instructions on that page
will tell you how to handle the battle. Sometimes
you will treat them as a single monster; sometimes
you will fight each one in turn.

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either in
battles or when you come across situations in which
you could either be lucky or unlucky (details of
these are given on the pages themselves), you may
call on your luck to make the outcome more favour-
able. But beware! Using luck is a risky business and
if you are unlucky, the results could be disastrous.

The procedure for using your luck is as follows: roll
two dice. If the number rolled is equal to or less than
your current LUCK score, you have been lucky and

i2

the result will go in your favour. If the number
rolled is higher than your current LUCK score, you
nave been unlucky and you will be penalized.

This procedure is known as Testing your Luck. Each
time you Test your Luck, you must subtract one point
from your current Lucx score. Thus you will soon
realize that the more you rely on your luck, the more
risky this will become.

Using Luck in Battles

On certain pages of the book you will be told to Test
vour Luck and will be told the consequences of your
being lucky or unlucky. However, in battles, you
always have the option of using your luck either to
inflict a more serious wound on a creature you have
just wounded, or to minimize the effects of a wound
the creature has just inflicted on you.

If you have just wounded the creature, you may Test
your Luck as described above. If you are lucky, you
have inflicted a severe wound and may subtract an
extra 2 points from the creature’s STAMINA Score.
However, if you are unlucky, the wound was a mere
graze and you must restore 1 point to the creature’s
STAMINA (i.e. instead of scoring the normal 2 points
of damage, you have now scored only 1),

If the creature has just wounded you, you may Test
vour Luck to try to minimize the wound. If you are
lucky, you have managed to avoid the full damage
of the blow. Restore 1 point of STAMINA (i.e. instead
of doing 2 points of damage it has done only 1). If

43
you are unlucky, you have taken a more serious
blow. Subtract 1 extra STAMINA point.

Remember that you must subtract 1 point from your
own LUCK score each time you Test your Luck.

-

Restoring Skill, Stamina and Luck
Skill

Your SKILL score will not change much during your
adventure. Occasionally, a page may give instruc-
tions to increase or decrease your skILt score, A
Magic Weapon may increase your sxrtt, but re-
member that only one weapon can be used ata time!
You cannot claim 2 sxtut bonuses for carrying two
Magic Swords. Your sKILt score can never exceed
its Inttial value unless specifically instructed. Drink-
ing the Potion of Skill (see later) will restore your
SKILL lo its Initial level at any time.

Stamina and Provisions

Your STAMINA score will change a lot during your
adventure as you fight monsters and undertake
arduous tasks. As you near your goal, your sTAMI-
Na level may be dangerously low and battles may be
particularly risky, so be careful!

Your backpack contains enough Provisions for ten
meals. You may rest and eat at any time except
when engaged in a Battle. Eating a meal restores 4
STAMINA points. When you eat.a meal, add 4 points
to your STAMINA score and deduct 1 point from

14

your Provisions. A separate Provisions Remaining
hox is provided on the Adventure Sheet for recording
details of Provisions. Remember that you have a
long way to go, so use your Provisions wisely!

Remember also that your STAMINA score may never
exceed its Initial value unless specifically instructed
on a page. Drinking the Potion of Strength (see
later) will restore your STAMINA to its Initial level at
any time.

Luck

Additions to your LUCK score are awarded through
the adventure when you have been particularly
lucky. Details are given on the pages of the book.
Remember that, as with SKILL and STAMINA, your
LUCK score may never exceed its Initial value unless
specifically instructed on a page. Drinking the Po-
tion of Fortune (see later) will restore your LUCK to
its Initial level at any time, and increase your Initial
LUCK by 1 point.

35

EQUIPMENT AND POTIONS

You will start your adventure with a bare minimum
of equipment, but you may find or buy other items
during your travels. You are armed with a sword
and are dressed in leather armour. You have a
backpack to hold your Provisions and any treasures
you may come across.

In addition, you may take one bottle of a magical
potion which will aid you on your quest. You may
choose to take a bottle of any of the following:

A Potion of Skill - restores sx1L points

A Potion of Strength — restores STAMINA points
A Potion of Fortune — restores LUCK points and
adds 1 to Initial Luck

These potions may be taken at any time during your
adventure (except when engaged in a Battle). Tak-
ing a measure of potion will restore SKILL, STAMI-
NA Or LUCK scores to their Initial level (and the
Potion of Fortune will add 1 point to your Initial
LUCK score before LUCK is restored).

Each bottle of potion contains enough for one mea-
sure, i.e. the characteristic may be restored once
during an adventure, Make a note on your Adven-
ture Sheet when you have used up a potion.

Remember also that you may only choose one of the
three potions to take on your trip, so choose wisely!

16

L

HINTS ON PLAY

There is one true way through Darkwood Forest
and it will take you several attempts to find it. Make
notes and draw a map as you explore — this map will
be invaluable in future adventures and enable you
to progress rapidly through to unexplored sections.

Not all areas contain treasure; many merely contain
traps and creatures which you will no doubt fall foul
of. There are many ‘wild goose chase’ passages and
while you may indeed progress through to your
ultimate destination, it is by no means certain that
vou will find what you are searching for.

It will be realized that entries make no sense if read
in numerical order. It is essential that you read only
the entries you are instructed to read. Reading other
entries will only cause confusion and may lessen the
excitement during play.

The one true way involves a minimum of nsk and
any player, no matter how weak on initial dice rolls,
should be able to get through fairly easily.

May the luck of the gods go with you on the adven-
ture ahead!

17
18

ADVENTURE ShEE

MEONSTER ENCOUNTER BOXES

SKILL STAMINA] | LUCK a= Shit'= Skill=
Initial tnilial Initial Shem ina Stanum= Stamina=
Suis Slamine= Luck=
EQUIPMENT GOLD S- Skifl= Skii=
LIST Srna Stamtina= Stanmitg=
JEWELS
Se1//- Skills Skifll=
POTIONS ina Staniiia= Stantina=
PROVISIONS
REMAINING
Si /(= Skil Skill=
Shairsnta= Stameint= Stamina=

19
BACKGROUND

You are an adventurer, a sword for hire, and have
been roaming the northern borderlands of your
kingdom. Having always spurned the-dullness of
village life, you now wander the lands in search of
wealth and danger. Despite the long walks and
rough outdoor life you are content with your un-
known destiny. The warld holds no fears for you a

you are a skilful warrior, well practised in the art of
slaying evil men and beasts with your trusty sword.
Not once during the last ten days since entering the
northern borderlands have you set eyes upon
another person. This does not worry you at all, as
you are happy with your own company and enjoy
the slow, sunny days hunting, eating and sleeping.

It is evening, and having feasted on a dinner of
rabbit, spit-roasted on an open fire, you settle down
to sleep beneath your sheepskin blanket. There’s a
full moon, and the light sparkles on the blade of
your broadsword skewered into the ground by your
side. You gaze at it, wondering when you will next
have to wipe the blood of some vile creature from its
sharp edge. These are strange lands, inhabited by
weird and loathsome beasts — goblins, trolls and
even dragons.

As the flame of your camp fire gently dies, you

20

Degin to drift asleep, and images of screaming,
zteen-faced trolls flicker through your mind. Sud-
denly, in the bushes to your left, you hear the loud
crack of a twig breaking under a clumsy foot. You
‘eap up and grab your sword from the ground. You
stand motionless but alert, ready to pounce on your
unseen adversary. Then you hear a groan, followed
oy the dull thud of a body falling to the ground. Is it
a trap? Slowly you walk over to the bush where the
noise is coming from and carefully pull back the
branches. You look down to see a little old man with
a great bushy beard, his face contorted with pain.
You crouch down to remove the iron helmet cover-
ing his balding head and notice two crossbow bolts
protruding from the stomach of his plump, chain-
mail-clad torso. Picking him up, you carry him over
to the fire and stir the dying embers into life. After
covering him with the sheepskin blanket, you man-
age to get the old man to drink a little water. He
coughs and moans. He sits up rigid, eyes staring
tixedly ahead, and starts to shout.

Tl get them! I'll get them! Don’t you fear, Gillibran,
Bigleg is coming to bring you the hammer. Oh yes,
indeed lam, Oh yes. . .’

The dwarf, whose name you presume to be Bigleg,
is obviously delirious from the poison-tipped bolts
lodged in his stomach. You watch as he slumps
down again to the ground, then whisper his name
in his ear. His eyes stare unblinkingly at you, as he
again starts to shout,

21
‘Ambush! Look out! Ambush! Aagh! The hammer!
Take the hammer to Gillibran! Save the dwarfs!’

His eyes half close and the pain seems to ease a litile,
and as the delirium subsides, he speaks to you again
ina low whisper.

‘Help us, friend . . . take the hammer to Gillibran
only the hammer will unite our people against
the trolis. . . We were on our way to Darkwood in
search of the hammer . . . ambushed by the little
people. . . others led .., the map in my pouch
will take you to thethome of Yaztromo, the master
mage of these parts. . . he has great magics for sale
to protect you against the creatures of Darkwood
take my gold. . . 1 beg you to find the hammer
and take it to Gillibran, my Lord of Stonebridge
vou will be well rewarded. . .’

Bigleg opens his mouth to start another sentence,
but nothing comes out except his last dying breath,
You sit down and ponder Bigleg’s words. Who is
Gillibran? Who is Yaztromo? What is all the fuss
about the dwarfish hammer? You reach over to the
still body of Bigleg and remove the pouch from the
leather belt around his waist. Inside you find 30
Gold Pieces and a map (opposite).

ga

Jingling the coins in your hand you think of the
possible rewards which may await you just for
returning a hammer to a village of dwarfs. You
decide to try to find the hammer in Darkwood
Forest; it’s been a few weeks since your last good
battle, and, what is more, you are likely to be well
paid for this one.

With your mind made up, you settle down to sleep,
having taken back the sheepskin blanket from poor
Bigleg. In the morning you bury the old dwarf and
gather up your possessions. You examine the
map, look up to the sun, and find your bearings.
Whistling merrily, you head off south at a good
pace, eager to meet this man Yaztromo and see
what he has to offer.

NOW TURN OVER

1 The tower is set back on the cdge of Darkwwood, some fifty metres
acoay from tre path

i

Your walk to Yaztromo’s takes a little over half a
day, and you arrive at his stone tower home dirty
and hungry. As the tower is set back on the edges of
Darkwood some fifty metres away from the path
vou have been following, it is difficult te find.
Finally you walk up to the huge oak door, some-
what relieved to find that it does exist and that
Bigleg had not been speaking wildly in his delirium.
A large brass bell and gong hang from the stone
archway. As you ring the bell, a shiver runs down
your spine and you realize that the loud ‘bong’
invades a deep silence, which you had not noticed
Defore. There are no sounds of birds or animals to be
heard. You wait anxiously at the door and hear slow
footsteps descending stairs from the tower above. A
small wooden slot in the door slides open, and two
eves appear and examine you.

‘Well, who are you?’ demands a grumpy voice
through the hole.

You answer that you are an adventurer in search of
the master mage Yaztromo, intending to purchase
magical items from him to combat the creatures of
Darkwood Forest.

‘Oh! Wellin that case, if you are interested in buying
some of my merchandise, you had better come up. I
am Yaztromo.’
2-5

He then turns and slowly climbs the stone stairs.
Will you:

Turn to 261
Turn to 54

Follow him up the stairs?
Draw your sword and attack him?

2
Your adventure ends here as your tasty fresh flesh is

about to become a savoury feast for the victorious
Ghoul.

3
You follow five more arrows to the trunk of an old

dead tree still rooted in the ground. You see that the
trunk ts hollow and that the hole continues through
the trunk into the ground to make a tunnel. It is dark
down the hole and you cannot see how faritis to the
bottom. Do you have a Ring of Light? If you do, turn
to 322. If you do not possess this item, turn to 120.

4
Lose 4 STAMINA points. If you are still alive you

manage to pull the arrow from your shoulder
although the pain is agonizing. If you still wish to
enter the cave, turn to 49. If you wish to crawl back
to the junction, turn to 93.

Sitting in the ornate throne you feel strangely un-
comfortable. The two Clone Warriors grovel on the
floor in front of you in complete subservience. Do
they expect you to become their new master? If you

. 6-9

wish to place the gold crown on your head, turn to
333. If you wish to leave the alcove and climb up the
rest of the steps to the roof of the cavern, turn to 249

6
As you walk past the Goblin he growls unlike
anything you have ever heard before, a growl that
you would not expect a Goblin to make. Feeling a
ttle nervous you head quickly north. Turn to 148.

7
You draw your sword and prepare to meet the

yvellow- and black-striped attackers. They are KIL-
LER BEES and will attack in separate droves, each
drove counting as a single creature.

SKILL STAMINA
First KILLER BEES 7 3
Second KILLER BEES 8 4
Third KILLER BEES 7 4

If you win, turn to 23.

8
Walking along the path, you hear footsteps and
arpuing voices ahead of you. If you wish to meet
their owners, turn to 317. If you would rather hide
in the bushes to let them walk by, turn to 392.

You unlock the door and step back, drawing your
sword in case the Goblin tries to attack you. He
picks up a wooden stool and, waving it in the air,

10-12

kicks the door open and charges at you screaming.
You must fight.

GOBLIN
If you win, turn to 176.

SKILL 5 STAMINA 4

10
You pick up a good-sized rock off the floor and take
aim. You throw the rock with all your might at the
Ogre but are dismayed to see it fly past his head and
crash against the far wall of the cave. You curse, but
decide nevertheless to rush into the cave to attack
the Ogre (turn to 290).

11
You start to lose your balance as the illusion distorts
your mind. You close your eyes and hold your head
in your hands but it makes no difference. You reel
around the room and then fall to the floor uncon-
scious. Turn to 353.

12
You tell the Gnome that perhaps you had been a
little hasty in drawing your sword, but you had to be
prepared for anything within the evil boundary of
Darkwood Forest, He replies that that is no excuse
for drawing your weapon on a defenceless old man
and, if you want your sword back, it will cost you 10
Gold Pieces or two items of treasure from your
backpack. You pay him what you will and, to your
relief, your beloved sword is returned. If you wish
to continue the conversation with him, turn to 271.

13-14
4# you have had enough of the Gnome and would
rather head west along the path, turn to 67.

x3

The vibrations feel like shock waves which seem to
hammer your body. Your legs feel like lead and you
are unable to move them. Suddenly the hut col-
lapses and crashes to the ground. The sky darkens
and a wind starts to how] all about you. The wind
dlows harder and becomes as strong as a gale, its
torce knocking you to the ground. You cling to the
porch and shield your face from the dirt and debris
thrown up by the gale. Above the deafening noise of
the wind you hear laughter followed by a deep voice
rejoicing, ‘I’m free! I’m free!’ You have released an
EARTH ELEMENTAL on to the world - lose 3 Luck
points. Gradually the howling wind dies down and
the skies brighten. You pick yourself up from out of
the rubble and walk slowly back to the path to head
north again. Turn to 149.

14
The pit is circular with smooth sides and you are too
weak from your fall to climb out. You call for help,
but nobody comes to your aid. You sit down and
ponder your fate. After about an hour you hear a
noise overhead. You look up to see the bearded face
of a stocky man wearing a fur hat. He looks
annoyed. He is a fur trapper and you have mined
his trap. He shouts down to you that if you expect
him to throw a rope down to rescue you, it is going
to cost you 3 Gold Pieces. Failing that, he will take
15 You see the shiny tip of the poison barb of a huge Sting Worm
coming straight af you.

‘_e

15-16

any magical item you care to give him from your
backpack. After you agree to pay off the angry fur
trapper he throws down a rope to you and you climb
out of the pit. You hand over the fee, crossing it off
vour Equipment List, and glare at the unfriendly fur
trapper before setting off north again down the
gorge. Turn to 255.

55

The slope is steep and you slip on the slime, tum-
bling head over heels down the hole to the bottom,
into a large earthen cavern. You jump to your feet
and are alarmed to see the shiny tip of a poison barb
on the tail end of a huge STING WORM coming
straight at you. The Sting Worm is about five metres
long and has huge yellow segments, but all you care
about is protecting yourself from the barb. There is
no time to scramble out of the hole — you must draw
your sword and fight.

STING WORM SKILL 8 STAMINA 7

If you win, turn to 217.

16

You shout at the three humanoids who are tending
a patch of red-topped fungi. Again they ignore you,
continuing with their work. You take hold of a
fungus top, breaking a piece off, and start to eat. It
tastes good but a terrible pain grips your stomach.
The fungus is poisonous. Do you have a Potion of
Anti-Poison? If you do, turn to 211. If you do not
have this potion, turn to 345.
17-18

17
A ladder runs down the inside of the well to the
water below. However, there appears to be a tunnel
just above the surface of the water, running north, It
is circular and has a diameter of one metre. You
may:

Toss a Gold Piece into the well

to make a wish Turn to 89
Descend the ladder to look down

the tunnel Turn to 256
Return to the path to head west Turn to 238

18
Your plan works and the fever dies down. Merciful-
ly the hair on the back of your hands disappears and
you slump back to sleep again, exhausted. In the
morning you collect your belongings and head
north along the path into the hills. Turn to 198.

19-21

19
Although weak from the fever, you manage to sit
up. You take hold of your sword and, grilting your
teeth, cut yourself where the Werewolf bit you.
Blood runs quickly from the wound, and, hopeful-
ly, the disease with it. Lose 1 STAMINA point due to
loss of blood. If you are still alive, turn to 18.

20
Walking east you come across a branch in the path
heading south. You decide to ignore it and continue
east. Turn to 277.

21

The pain increases and you quickly reach into your
backpack to pull out the small bottle labelled Potion
of Anti-Poison. You gulp down its contents. Your
bedy relaxes and the effects of the poison wear
away. You ponder what else might be in store for
you in this forest and turn north up the path. Turn
to 226,

22-24

22

The gas is toxic and your eyes start to water. You
cough and hold your breath, running round the
cave trying to escape from the gas cloud which
envelops your face. Your lungs feel as though they
are bursting and you are forced to inhale. Reduce
your SKILL by 2and your STAMINA by the amount
of one die roll. If you are still alive, you are relieved
to see the gas cloud fade away. You put the silver
box in your backpack ar:d leave the cave immediate-
ly to continue your quest northwards. Turn to 358.

23
You wipe the sweat from your forehead and wonder
what else these evil lands have in store for you. You
sit down and rest for a while. Later you set off
towards the sound of the flowing water. Turn to

339-

24

The muscles in your neck start to stiffen and you feel
the effects of poison from the darts running through
your body. You reach quickly into your backpack
and pull out the small bottle labelled Potion of
Anti-Poison and gulp down its contents. Your body
relaxes and the effects of the poison wear away. On
seeing this, the Pygmies turn and run off into the
grasses. Wil] you:

Draw your sword and run into the
grass after the Pygmies?
Continue north along the path?

Turn to 377
Turnto 92

25-28

25
=ventually the path levels out and you find yourself
ona valley floor. The path continues north but also a
sew path leads off to the west.

Turn to 369
Turnto 56

To continue north
To go west

26

tou decide to start your search at the wooden
shelves. All the books are written in a language
sntamiliar to you and contain strange diagrams.
The charts and scrolls are also unintelligible to you.
‘ou open cupboards and drawers but all you find
:te more books, leather-bound and dusty. You are
zDout to give up searching the room when you
satice one more book on the floor, acting as a
support for a broken table leg. Will you:

Pick up the book?

Give up your search and return
to the path to head north?

Turn to 91

Turn to 220

27
“Viping the thick green sap-blood from your sword
vou set off north again. You are relieved to see that
cne trees are at last beginning to thin out and appear
“28s threatening. Turn to 329.

28
‘f vou possess an Armband of Strength, turn to 52. If
vou do not possess this item, turn to 266.
a

29 Ina small clearing anidst the trees you see two small creatures
wrth warty skirt

29-32
29

in a smail clearing amidst the trees you see two
small creatures with warty skin, dressed in leather
armour. They appear to-be arguing over who should
be in charge of the rabbit which is being spit-roasted
over an open fire, On seeing you, they cease their
argument and draw their short swords. You are
going to have to fight the ORCS advancing towards
you.

SKILL STAMINA
First ORC 5 5
Second ORC 5 6

If you win the battle, turn to 383. If you wish to
Escape during the battle, you may do so by running
back to the path and heading north. Turn to 254.

30
Lose 2 STAMINA points for the deep cut on your
forehead. If you are still alive, turn to 225.

31
You crawl out of the tunnel and step on to the ladder
on the wall of the well. You climb out of the well and
return to the path. Turn to 362.

32
You reach into your backpack and hand over 10
Gold Pieces and two objects to Arragon. Make the
necessary deductions to your Equipment List. Arra-
zon then commands you to leave and you run out of
‘he cottage back to the junction in the path. Lose 1
33-34

LUCK point and head north along the path. Tur to
1590.

33
The friar shakes his head, saying, ‘There doesn’t
seem to be any charity in the world any more.’ With
a shrug of the shoulders he sets off south again. You
watch him disappear before continuing your jour-
ney north. Turn to 390.

34
As you rub the lantern, green smoke slowly starts to

nse from the wick and take shape. It forms the
outline of a fat old man with a bald head sitting ona
cushion. His mouth opens slowly and in a deep
voice he says, ‘Well, what do you want?’ You tell
him of your quest but he tells you he is unable to
offer you material gain or wealth. He cari only offer
you personal well-being. You may restore your
SKILL, STAMINA OF LUCK Score to its Initial level. As
soon as you make your choice, the genie disappears
and the lantern turns black. You throw it to the
ground and head north. Turn to 231.

35-37

35
Lose 4 STAMINA points for the injury caused by

the terrible burn. If you are still alive turn to 132.

36

Thinking about the robed stranger you feel a little
uncomfortable. There was something about his
manner that you did not trust. You stop to take a
look in your backpack and are annoyed to find
something is missing. The man was a thief! Deduct
either all your remaining Gold Pieces or two of the
magic items you may have purchased from Yaztro-
mo from your Adventure Sheet. You are in two minds
whether or not to run after the thief but you sense
that he will not be where he said he was going. You
curse and start off north again. Turn to 187.

7
You reach into the tree and pluck a pear-shaped
truit which is purple in colour. You take a small bite
and it tastes very bitter. lf you wish to spit it out and
continue north up the path, turn to 226. If you
would rather swallow the fruit, turn to 336

38 You can see an old wontan in grubby clothes readitg one of several
bouks by the fireside

38-40

38

You peer through the small dirty window of the hut
*% see an old woman in grubby clothes with a
wrinkled face and warty nose reading one of several
>0oks by the fireside on the far wall of the hut. A
nunchbacked servant is carrying more books to her
tom shelves crammed with old books, charts and
scrolls. If you want to enter the hut, turn to 315. If
vou would rather return to the path and head north
again, turn to 220.

3

You spread the net out and then whirl it around
your head. You release it in the direction of the Cave
Troll and watch as it flies silently through the air to
land on its stationary target. It wraps itself around
the Cave Troll, who wakes quickly from his sleep,
growls loudly and tries to struggle from the net. You
rush to the stone chair and take the leather bag from
the enraged Cave Troll. You rin out of the cave
leaving the Cave Troll to fight his way out of the net.
Turn to 287.

40

You get to your feet and curse, brushing the dirt
trom your clothes with your hands. You are
tempted to wait around to discover who set the trap,
but decide against it. To continue northwards, turn

to 274.

41-44

41

You run back down the path to the junction where
the crow is stil] sitting on the signpost. You turn left,
and run eastwards, shouting, ‘Good afternoon!’ to
the crow as you pass him. Turn to 239.

42

The old woman throws back her head and roars
with laughter as you start to make conversation. She
is an evil woman. Lose 1 LUCK point and draw your
sword. Turn to 342.

43
You draw your sword and charge the Wild Hill

Men, who stop their argument and turn towards
you, screaming and wielding axes.

SKILL STAMINA
First WILD HILL
MAN 7 5
Second WILD HILL
MAN 6 4

Fight them one ata time. If you win, turn to 50. You

may Escape by running north along the path. Turn to
188.

44
Lose 2 STAMINA points. If you are still alive, you

find your Nose Filters in a side pocket of your
backpack and hastily slip them inside your nostrils.
You slowly inhale the poisonous air around you, but

45-47

all is well and you are able to breathe freely. After
a while the gas cloud fades away. However, there
does not seem to be much point in staying here any
longer and you walk over to the steps on the far wall

Turn to 293.

45
Lose 2 STAMINA points. If you are still alive, turn to

165.

46

The carrot flies through the air but before it reaches
the Gnome it changes into a butterfly and flutters
away on the breeze, The Gnome starts to whittle 4
piece of wood with a small knife and has a bored
expression on his face. Lose 2 Luck points. You
decide that you ought to treat him with a little more
respect and apologize to the Gnome. Turn to 12.

47
While you are distracted by the servant the Witch

shouts some strange words into the air. Suddenly
she vanishes in a bright flash and reappears as a
small bat which flies out of the open door. On seeing
this, the hunchback slumps to the floor and starts to
cry. You may:

Search the hut for something

useful Turn to 26
Leave the hut and return to the
path to head north Turn to 220

49 Standing in the ntiddle of the cave are two green-skiuned creatures
with small bodies and large heads.

48-49

48

You lift the chest above your head and send it
crashing to the floor. It bursts open and amidst the
splintered wood lies a large, light blue egg nearly a
metre round. You tap it with your finger. It is cold
and hard, and feels like marble. Suddenly a crack
appears and before you can move the egg explodes,
sending fragments of razor-sharp shell flying
‘hrough the air. Rolt one die to determine how
many splinters of shell stick in you, and lose 1
STAMINA point for each. If you are still alive, you
stagger out of the room and continue north along
the path. Turn to 288.

49
You press on down the tunnel into the cave

entrance. The roof of the cave is no higher than the
tunnel and you are unable to stand up. The cave is
very small and filled with tiny bits of furniture and
all manner of objects and curios. Standing in the
middle of the cave are two green-skinned creatures
with small bodies and large heads; they have
pointed ears and long noses and their clothes are
made from sacks. They appear very alarmed and
charge at you with their daggers. You must fight the
GREMLINS as you are unable to turn round and
escape.

SKILL STAMINA
First GREMLIN 4 3
Second GREMLIN 3 2

58=52
You fight the Gremlins one at a time but must
reduce your Attack Strength by 3 for each round of

combat because you are fighting on your hands and
knees. If you win, turn to 371.

50

Around the neck of one of the Wild Hill Men you
find a small silver key hanging on a small leather
cord. You untie the leather cord and put the key in
your backpack. You set off north again — turn to 188.

51
Your walk along the green valley floor brings you to
a junction in the path. If you want to head north,
turn to 199. If you wish to continue east, turn to 397.

52

Quin explains that he will wager some Dust of
Levitation against an item or coins to the value of 10
Gold Pieces. As you sit down at the table opposite
him, you deftly slip the Armband of Strength on to
your arm. You put your elbow on to the table and
lock hands with him. His grip is like an iron jaw and
his dark slanted eyes look confident. His biceps

53-54
bulge and he gives the signal for the contest to
begin. You start to push his arm down and are
amazed at your own strength. Sweat breaks out on
his forehead and you can see the disbelief and pain
on his face. You push harder and force his arm on
to the table in defeat — turn to 78.

53
The muscles in your neck start to stiffen and you feel

the effects of the poison from the darts running
through your body. You pluck the darts from your
neck, but it’s too late. You sink to your knees and
then roll over unconscious. When you wake up, you
find that you still have your sword and possessions,
but all your gold is gone. The Pygmies have stolen it
all. You shake your fist at the unseen thieves and
start to walk north again along the path. Turn to 92.

54
As you draw your sword, Yaztromo turns round

and casually advises you not to be foolish as his
magic is great. If you still wish to attack him, turn to
399. If you change your mind and decide to follow
him up the stairs, turn to 261.

57 You hear a loud roar and look up to see a dragon-like creature
flying down to its tarr.

55757

55
You reach into your backpack and pull out the

purple silk glove. It fits snugly on your hand. Then
you bend down and pick up a good-sized rock and
take aim. You throw the rock with all your might at
the Ogre and it flies like an arrow to hit him on the
side of the head, knocking him unconscious. The
creature in the cage jumps around even more
frantically than before. Do you:

Take a closer look at the

creahure in the cage? Turn to 168
Search through the contents

of the cave? Turn to 313
Leave the cave immediately

and continue northwards? Turn to 358

56
Walking along the tranquil valley floor, you arrive at
a junction in the path. You see that the way south
leads back to the hills so decide to dismiss that
option. If you wish to continue west, turn to 233. If
you wish to head north, turn to 163.

57
You walk over to investigate the lair but are sudden-

ly aware of a dark shadow being cast all about you.
You hear a loud roar above you and look up to see.a
dragon-like creature with two legs and green scaly
skin flying down to its lair. A bolt of fire shoots from
its mouth towards you. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, the fire bolt misses you and explodes by your
58

feet — turn to 132. If you are Unlucky, the fire bolt
slams into your back, knocking you to the ground -
turn to 35.

58

You reach into your backpack and pull out the small
bottle of Holy Water. Quickly removing the cork
you throw the water at the advancing GHOUL.
Thick smoke rises into the air from the burn marks
made by the Holy Water on the putrid flesh of the
Ghoul. The Ghoul appears to be in great pain but
through its wide-open mouth no sound is heard. It
crawis into a corner of the room, desperate to escape
your goodly weapon. You walk over to the coffin
and look inside. You are overjoyed to see, as well as
25 Gold Pieces, an object that the Ghoul was using
as a head rest - a bronze hammer head with the
letter G inscribed in it. You happily put your
findings inte your backpack and walk back up the
stairs to leave the crypt and return to the path to
head north. Turn to 112,

59-62

You arrive at another junction in the path. Ignoring,
the way south, you continue east — turn to 171.

60

You hold your breath and reach into your backpack,
frantically searching for your Nose Filters, Tes? your
Luck. If you are Lucky, you find them straight away
and slip them inside your nostrils — turn to 183. I!
you are Unlucky, you are unable to find them
quickly enough and are forced to inhale the poison-
ous gas — turn to 44.

61
Soon you are back at the first junction. If you wish to
crawl south back to the well, turn to 398. If you wish
to continue east, turn to 151.

62
As you draw your sword from your last opponent
the white stallion gallops off east along the pa th out
of sight. You turn and set off west again. Turn to
208.

63-65

63

On seeing the arrow fly past you the Centaur rears
up on his hind legs and then charges into a gallop
straight at you. You have to jump back to avoid
being run down. He gallops past you in a cloud of
dust and stops some ten metres away down the
path you have just come along. Maybe fighting the
noble Centaur is not such a good idea after all. You
sheathe your sword and decide to wade across the
river. Turn to 178.

04.

Before the Tangleweed cart drag you to the ground
you manage to grab the bottle containing the Potion
of Plant Control from your backpack and gulp down
its contents. As if touched by flame the Tangleweed
releases your limbs and retreats from the path. You
decide to run quickly along the path while the
effects of the potion still last. Turn to 142,

65
The bridge is in a terrible state of repair, but you
manage to cross it safely. You are at the foot of some
hills and it is getting darker as night doses in. You
pitch camp behind some rocks to the left of the path
and settle down to sleep with your sword by your
side. Turn to 330,

Boe

66—68

66

You step carefully along the slippery stones to the
other side of the river. You see that the path con-
tinues north into the hills but as itis getting dark you
decide to make camp for the night under a large
solitary tree to the right of the path. You build a
large fire and settle down to sleep with your sword
by your side. Turn to 325.

67
You arrive at another junction in the path. The way
south leads back into the hills so ignore it and

continue west (turn to 113).

68
You drink the clear liquid slowly from the bottle. It
tastes very bitter and you are apprehensive about
what you have done. But then a glow radiates
through your body and you feel invigorated. You
have drunk a health potion — add 3 STAMINA points
to your score. You set off east along the path. Turn

tO 59.

|

=

a

—

69 Small, pale-skinned humanotds appear to be tending crops of

2a

Pre c oT i; Al) }
— 1

—

| Wires
i Pi,

Mh

a a!
= ae 2 — “a

_ Allie Ee

, r if *,
.*
‘=
-
7

different-coloured fungi.

69-70

The tunnel goes deeper underground, heading
west some sixty metres before opening out into a
vast cavern with green slimy walls. A shaft of day-
light shines down from the roof of the cavern illumi-
nating the floor. Small, pale-skinned humanoids are
scattered about and they appear to be tending crops
of different-coloured fungi. A stream trickles
through the cavern. Stone steps rise past alcoves on
the far wall to a hole in the roof through which the
daylight streams. You draw your sword and
approach one of the small humanoids. As you get
nearer you see that they are hairless and their eyes
are blank. They seem totally uninterested in your
presence, walking slowly between their rows of
fungi and bending down occasionally to remove
unwelcome insects and weeds from the crops. You
may:

Attack oneofthesmallhumanoids Turn to264
Chop down one of the fungi Turn to143
Demand to eat a green-topped fungus Turn to 269
Demand toeata red-topped fungus Turmto 16

70
The sword is magnificent and was obviously made
by a master craftsman. It feels powerful in your
hand. Add 2 points to your current SKILL score for
your enchanted sword. Cutting your new weapon
through the air you set off north down the gorge

(turn to 334).
71573

71

On pulling back the curtain you see a tiny green-
skinned creature with a large head. He has a long
nose and pointed ears and wears brown canvas
clothing. A large medallion hangs from his neck ona
silver chain. The creature is sitting at a table examin-
ing a red clay figure of a human hand. On seeing
you enter the cave he takes a stone hammer and
smashes the clay hand. He isa GREMLIN chief and
jumps to his feet to face you with his hammer. You
must fight him.

GREMLIN

During each Attack Round you must reduce your
Attack Strength by 3 because of your cramped
fighting position. If you win, turn to 273.

SKILL 5 STAMINA 5

72
The path ends at a junction. The way south leads
back to the forest so you decide to head north (turn
to 138).

73

You step back and then charge at the door. Roll two
dice. If the number rolled is equal to or less than
both your tuck and SKILL scores, the door flies
open — turn to 327. If the number rolled is greater
than either your LUCK or SKILL score, you bounce
off the door and rub your bruised shoulder. You
decide against risking any further injury to yourself
and return to the path to head north (turn to 112).

74-76

74
You lift the leather bag off the back of the stone chair
and tiptoe out of the cave. Outside you stop to
examine the contents of the bag. Inside you find 5
Gold Pieces and a small brass bell. You put these in
vour backpack and walk back to the junction in the
path to head north. Turn to 25.

Your legs feel very vulnerable and you half expect
them to be bitten any moment by some unseen river
creature. However, nothing happens and you man-
age to cross safely. You are now at the foot of some
hills and it is getting darker as night closes in. You
decide to camp behind some rocks to the left of the
path and settle down to sleep with your sword by
your side. Turn to 330.

76
The path turns suddenly to the right and proceeds
northwards into the dense undergrowth. Turn to
206.

77-793

77
The Pygmies quickly turn and run off into the
grasses. Will you:

Draw your sword and run into the
grass after them?

Turn to 377
Continue north along the path?

Turnto 92

Quin stands up and walks silently to a wooden
chest at the back of the hut. He lifts the lid and pulls
outa small glass phial, He hands it to you and walks
back to the table, where he slumps in his chair
looking thoroughly dejected, The dust in the phial
sparkles in the light and you put it into your back-
pack and leave the hut. Outside you walk back to
the junction in the path. Turn to 349.

se

You stand with your back to the tree and Prepare to
fight the Vampire Bats. You fight them one ata time
as they swoop down on you.

SKILL STAMINA
First VAMPIRE BAT

5
Second VAMPIRE BAT 6 5
Third VAMPIRE BAT 5 7

If you win, turn to 386.

80-83

80
There does not seem to be much point in staying
here any longer and you walk over to the steps in
the far wall. Turn to 293.

81
Ahead you hear high-pitched voices frantically call-
ing to each other. The tunnel ends at a small cave
entrance. Suddenly an arrow flies out of the cave
towards you. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, the
arrow whistles past your head (turn to 49). lf you are
Unlucky, it lodges in your shoulder (tum to 4).

82
Do you possess a Potion of Stillness? If you do, turn
to 235. If you do not, turn to 13.

83
You reach for your backpack and take out the bella-
donna. It is poisonous but its effect will stop you
from turning into a Werewolf yourself. Lose 2
STAMINA points for the effects of the poison. If you
are still alive, turn to 139.

84-86

84

As you approach the boulder you are even more
surprised to see it suddenly rise up on what appear
to be two stumpy stone legs. Then two stone arms
with huge club-shaped fists spring out of its sides.
You stare in disbelief as the boulder lumbers to-
wards you and raises one of its great stone fists. You
snap out of your bewilderment and draw your
sword to fight the BOULDER BEAST.

BOULDER BEAST SKILL 8

If you win, turn to 146. You may Escape after three
Attack Rounds by running north down the path
into the valley. Turn to 245.

STAMINA 11

85

Inside the cage a small, sinewy creature with
brown, scaly skin is jumping up and down. He is a
GOBLIN, and he has a black shiny rod hanging ona
leather cord round his neck. ff you want to unlock
the cage door, turn to g. If you want to ignore the
creature and leave the cave to continue your journey
northwards, turn to 358.

86

As you crouch down in the tall grass you hear the
sound of galloping hooves amidst the barking. Then
you see the legs of four hounds and one horse race
past you in a cloud of dust. The sound of the hunt
quickly fades into the distance and you step out on
to the path again. Wondering about the poor old fox
you set off west once more. Turn to 208.

87-89

87
The path leads along a ridge of the hill and comes to
another junction. You see that the way south leads
back to the river, so you decide to head north again.

Turn to go,

88
Climbing the steps you soon reach the second
alcove. You see vague shapes in the dark and hear
the sound of shuffling feet. If you wish to enter the
alcove, turn to 212. If you wish to continue climbing,

turn to 107.

89
The coin lands in the water with a gentle plop (make
the deduction to your Equipment List). You wish for
more Gold Pieces but nothing happens ~ this is nota
wishing well. You may:

Descend the ladder to look down

the tunnel Turn to 256
Return to the path to head

east Turn to 281
Return to the path to head

west Tur to 238

90 Two sinewy nicn with long hair and beards spring from behind a
boulder

go-91
90

The path runs north down the hill between large
boulders and rocks. You have an uneasy feeling that
you are being watched, Then, from behind one of
the larger boulders to the left of the path, spring
two sinewy men with long hair and beards. They
are wearing animal furs and look menacing. One
notches an arrow to his bow and lets it fly. Test
your Luck. If you are Lucky, the arrow misses you
and flies past your head (turn to 210). If you are
Unlucky, the arrow lodges itself in your shoulder
and you suffer the loss of 3 STAMINA points. it you
are still alive, turn to 348

gt

You open the book and are surprised to see that the
pages are hollowed out in the middle. Lying in the
cavity is a small jewel on a silver chain. Beside itis a
parchment which reads:

EYz oF AMBER

Instructions for use = __-

Place the necklace around your neck
and question those you fear;

No matter what they try to say,

it’s only truth you'll hear.

92-94

You place the necklace around your neck and pre.
sume your find will come in useful in this evil forest!
Add 1 Luck point. Leaving the hut you return to the
path and head north - turn to 220.

g2
As the path proceeds northwards, the grass be-
comes shorter and the ground starts to rise gently.
Ahead you can hear the sound of flowing water.
However, much more ominous, you also hear
another sound, above you in the sky — a loud
buzzing noise. Suddenly a swarm af large bees,
each bee some ten centimetres long, is hovering
directly above you. You may:

Try to run to the water ahead and

divein Turn to 299
Stand and fight Tumto7
Drink a Potion of Insect Control

(if you have one) Turn to 100

93
Back at the junction you may either go east (turn to

61) or keep going south (turn to 270).

94
You take the Rope of Climbing out of your back-
pack. As if it knows what to do, it wraps itself round
the top of the tree trunk and descends the hole into
the tunnel below, inviting you to climb down. If you
wish to climb down the rope, turn to 136. If you

95-96
wish to change your mind and return to the path to
head north again, turn to 144.

95
You try with all your might to move the stone slab,
but it will not budge. Do you have any Dust of
Levitation? If you do, turn to 173. If not, turn to 368.

96
As you lift your arm to strike the dog it growls
fiercely and leaps at you.

HUNTING DOG SKILL 7

If you defeat the Hunting Dog, you must now fight
the other three dogs and their master in pairs. Both
members of a pair will have a separate attack on you
in each Attack Round, but you must choose which
of the two you will fight. Attack your nominated
target as in a normal battle. Against the other you
will throw for your Attack Strength in the normal
way, but you will not wound it if your Attack
Strength is greater — you must count this as though
you have just parried its blow. Of course if its Attack
Strength is greater, it will have wounded you in the
normal way.

STAMINA 6

SKILL STAMINA

First pair: HUNTING DOG 6 6
HUNTING DOG - 5 6
Second pair: HUNTINGDOG 6 5
MASKED MAN 8 7

If you win, turn to 62.
99 You see a large man with dark skin sitting at a table in the middle
of the hiutt

97-99

The path leads ever northwards but at last the trees
are beginning to thin out and appear less menacing
as daylight streams through between them. On the
right-hand side of the path you see an old oak chair
covered with moss. If you wish to sit in the chair to
rest and eat, turn to 328. If you would rather press
on northwards, turn to 118.

98

On your long walk around Darkwood Forest you
are attacked by a large group of Wild Hill Men,
probably the same group who attacked Bigleg and
his party two days earher. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, you manage to run away from them without
being hit by the rain of arrows which falls all about
you; turn to 1. If you are Unlucky, you slip and fall
as you run, pierced by many arrows. Your adven-
ture ends here.

99

Ahead you see that the path ends at the door of a
large hut made of dried mud. [t has a domed roof
and a single window. You peer through the window
and see a large man with dark skin sitting at a table
in the middle of the hut, He is bare-chested and 1s
flexing the muscles of his arms. If you wish to enter
the hut, turn to 209. If you would rather return to
the junction in the path, turn to 349.
100-103

100
As you reach into your backpack, you realize with
horror that the large, buzzing insects above you are
KILLER BEES. You grab the bottle marked Potion
of Insect Control and gulp down its contents, The
Killer Bees dive down to attack you, but are sud-
dently repelled as though they have hit an invisible
screen. They hover all around you buzzing loudly
but do not sting you. With new heart you draw your
sword and swing it through the air. You catch one of
the Killer Bees and it falls to the ground. You step on
it with your leather sandal. The others then fly off
into the distance. You continue northwards to-
wards the sound of flowing water. Turn to 339.

101
You lift the leather bag off the stone chair and walk
outside. Examining the contents of the bag you find
5 Gold Pieces and a small brass bell. You put these in
your backpack and walk back to the junction in the
path to head north. Turn to 25.

102
Walking along the path you notice marks in the
ground made by the hooves of a horse heading vast.
You soon arrive at another junction in the path. The
hoof marks lead south, back to the forest. You
decide to head north. Turn to 105.

103
The path opens out into a small clearing. To your
right you see a pile of branches, grass and pieces of

104

rag, the lair of some large creature. Amongst the
debris and old bones scattered about you catch sight
of something glittering. If you want to look more
closely, turn to 57. If you wish to hurry north along
the path, turn to 360.

104
The BANDIT woman steps forward with her sword
raised, shouting ‘Death to the intruder" She is their
leader and you must fight her first.

BANDIT SKILL 8

If you manage to defeat her, you must now fight the
other four Bandits in pairs. Both members of a pair
will have a separate attack on you in each Attack
Round, but you must choose which of the two you
will fight. Attack your chosen Bandit as in a normal
battle. Against the other you will throw for your
Attack Strength in the normal way, but you will
not wound it if your Attack Strength is greater;
you must count this as though you have just fend-
ed off his blow. Of course if his Attack Strength is
greater, he will have wounded you in the normal
way.

STAMINA 6

SKILL STAMINA
First pair: BANDITA 7 6
BANDITB 6 4
Second pair: BANDITA 7 5
BANDITB 5 6

If you win, turn to 311.
\ ,
( \ a >
Ks
'
cm
“@e
_
~
Ei, eh
, e- *. fh : 1 .
“" —_ r< :
= t —_
Ze | iano ee
' ' ™ %, ? f 7
i ‘wie
iy
$07 A ruge dark stipe steps out from thy alcove with Hirer straustinry

rein ils tiistrifs

105-107

105
in the distance to the right of the path you see large
Sirds circling in the sky, As you get closer you
recognize them as vultures. If you wish to step
otf the path to see what or whom the vultures
are interested in, turn to 384. lf you wish to ignore
the vultures and continue walking north, turn to

394.

106

There is a fire-blackened copper kettle in the ashes
of the fire which you pick up to inspect. You remove
the lid and find a gold ring with a large emerald set
in it. It has a value of 15 Gold Pieces, You are very
tortunate and may add 2 LUCK points. Happy with
your new treasure you decide to ignore the wooden
chest and leave the room to continue northwards.
Turn to 288.

107
Just as you reach the last steps before the next
alcove, a jet of flame shoots out to bar your way.
Then a huge dark shape steps out from the alcove
with flame shooting from its nostrils. Black smoke
curls up into the air. The beast is shaped like a man,
but has wings and carries a flaming sword in one
hand and a whip in the other, A golden crown sits
on its head. It faces you motionless on the steps
above you. Suddenly it cracks its whip and raises its
fiery sword, The only way out of this cavern lies
before you at the top of the steps. To get there, you
108-109

will have to fight the FIRE DEMON, master of the
clones:

FIRE DEMON

In addition to its normal attack with its fiery sword,
throw one die every Attack Round for its whip. Ona
roll of 1 or 2, the whip will lash you and 1 point must
be subtracted from your sTAMINA. A roll of 3 to 6
means the whip misses you, It is possible to use
your LUCK against the whip. If you win turn to 152,

SKILL 10 STAMINA 10

108

The pain increases and becomes almost unbearable.
You grip your stomach with your arms and fall to
your knees, foaming at the mouth. Eventually the
pain subsides but you are very weak after your
ordeal. Lose 3 STAMINA points, You ponder what
else might be in store for you in this forest and
decide to turn north up the path. Turn to 226.

10g
Soon the path leads out of the trees on to a large
plain with tall grasses. Beyond it you see rising
ground and, further off, some low hills. The path
Splits and goes in three directions.

If you want to go west Turn to124
If you want to go east Turn to 72
If you want to continue north Turn to 309

a= ——

110-112

110
{f you wish to search through the Gremlin’s leather
backpack, turn to 257. If you wish to leave the
‘tunnel without any further delay, turn to 31.

111
The expression on Arragon’s face changes from
confidence to fear. Perhaps he is not all that he
makes himself out to be. Suddenly he apologizes for
being so aggressive but explains that these lands are
filled with bandits and murderers and he has to
protect himself by pretending to be a wizard of
supreme power. He begs forgiveness and offers you
5 Gold Pieces if you will leave him in peace and tell
nobody of his disguise. You accept his offer and
leave the cottage. You walk back to the junction in
the path and head north; turn to 150.

112
The path presses on northwards through the dense
trees, Then it makes a sudden turn to the right and
heads east, The path is so overgrown in places that
you have to use your sword to cut through it. Your
walk east is long and tiring. At last you reach a
junction in the path. Looking at Bigleg’s map you
decide to head north again in the direction of
Stonebridge and ignore the narrow path continuing
east. Turn to 103.
413-115

113
The path makes a sudden turn to the right and
heads north across the valley floor. To the left of the
path you see a large pond with a small wooden hut
with a thatched roof by its edge. If you want to
investigate the hut, turn to 324. If you wish toignore
the hut and continue north along the path, turn to

149.

The Treeman lumbers slowly towards you on large,
splayed roots. If you possess Fire Capsules, turn to
350. If you do not possess them, draw your sword
and turn to 123.

115
The path soon comes toa junction. If you wish to go
west, turn to 382. If you wish to go east, turn to 277.

116-117

116

Eventually you manage to get back to sleep but are
awake early. In the morning light you notice a
gold-studded leather collar round the neck of the
largest Wolf. It must be worth 15 Gold Pieces.
Putting the coliar in your backpack you wonder who
the Wolf’s owner might be. You collect your belong-
ings and head north along the path. Turn to 314.

117
You unlock the door and step back, drawing your
sword in case the Goblin tries to attack you. He
picks up a wooden stool and, waving it in the air,
kicks the door open and charges at you screaming.
You must fight.

GOBLIN SKILL 5

STAMINA 4

If you win, turn to 232.

HG

118 A large brown pig-like creature bursts out on to the path and
halts there.

118-119

118

The path eventually emerges from the trees on toa
vast plain. Beyond you see rising ground leading to
low hills. The waist-high grasses on either side of
the path sway gently in the warm breeze. All is
peaceful and the dangers ahead seem unimportant.
You are enjoying your walk when suddenly the
silence is broken by the sound of squealing and
grunting to the right of the path. You can see a path
being made through the grass by an unseen beast
moving quickly towards you. You draw your sword
in readiness. A few yards ahead of you a large
brown pig-like creature bursts out on to the path
and halts there. It has two long tusks protruding
from a short stubby snout. Steam rises into the air
from its sweating body. Its small eyes look at you
before it puts its head down to charge at you. You
must fight the WILD BOAR.

WILD BOAR SKILL 6 STAMINA 5

If you win, turn to 174.

119
The ground is quite steep as the path wends its way
into the hills. By the time you reach the top the sun
is quite hot. Aili around in the distance you see the
green circle of Darkwood Forest. Mist still hangs in
the tall grass behind you, but ahead you see a valley
floor bathed in sunlight. All is quiet. As you start
down the far side of the hill you see a junction in the
path. You may either continue north down the hill
120-123

(turn to go) or head west along the new branch (turn
to 216).

120
You drop a stone down the hollow tree trunk to the
tunnel below. It must be some five metres to the
bottom. Do you possess a Rope of Climbing? If you
do, turn to 94. If you do not, turn to 380

421
Back at the junction you may either go east (turn to
61) or keep going north (turn to 81).

122
At the bottom of the ladder you see that the tunnel
runs quite a distance north. You are surprised to see
that it is lit by torches at regular intervals along its
length. If you wish to crawl along the tunnel, turn to
135. If you wish to climb back up the ladder and
return to the path, turn to 362.

123
The Treeman lashes out at you with two of its main
branches and you leap into the attack

TREEMAN

You must defeat the Treeman twice, once for each
main branch, before it will die, If you win, turn to
27. You may Escape during battle by running back to
the junction in the path — turn to 234.

SKILL 8 STAMINA 8

124-127

124
The path ends at another junction. The way south
leads back to the forest so you decide to head north.

Turn to 180.

125
As you descend into the hole, you notice large
amounts of slime secreted by some huge creature. If
you wish to climb back out of the hole and continue
walking northwards up the path, turn to 337. If you
wish to carry on down the hole, turn to 15.

126
You gently prise the lid off the box, but as you do so,
a yellow gas escapes and envelops your face. If you
possess Nose Filters, turn to 365. If not, turn to 22.

127
You climb on to the Centaur’s back and he turns and
walks into the river. The water is a dark green colour
and you wonder what kind of creatures might be
lurking in its depths. Soon you reach the other side
and you pay the Centaur his 3 Gold Pieces. He
thanks you and waves goodbye, wishing you good
luck, You are now at the foot of some hills and it is
beginning to get dark. You see the path winding its
way north up into the hills. You decide to camp
under a great, old oak tree to the right of the path
and settle down to sleep with your sword by your
side. Turn to 298.

— =
130 A creature which appears to be half-cat and half-gut is lying on a
branch over the patls,

128-130

128
You cut the thick ropes holding the Barbarian. He
grunts, and sits up to rub his wrists and ankles. He
looks at you and sneers. He is either delirious or
ungrateful, for he pulls out one of the wooden
stakes from the ground and turns to attack you!

BARBARIAN SKILL 9 STAMINA 7

If you win, turn to 272.

129
Your arm is sore from the effort and the loss of gold
to Quin makes you dejected. Lose 2 LucK points.
You leave the hut and the smiling Quin. Outside
you walk back to the junction in the path. Turn to

349,

130
The path forces its way through the gnarled trees
and thorny bushes. You hear growling above you
and look up to see a creature which appears to be
half-cat and half-girl lying on a branch over the
path. It has short black shiny fur like a panther but
there are paws at the end of its arms and legs with
sharp claws, Its face has human features with
slanted eyes and long teeth. It looks as if it is about
to pounce. If you wish to draw your sword and
fight the CATWOMAN, turn to 153. If you wish
to run quickly ahead, lose 1 LUCK point and turn
131-133

131
You drag yourself out of the water on the far bank of
the river, You see that the path continues north into
the hills but as it is getting dark, you decide to make
camp for the night under a large solitary tree to the
right of the path. You build a large fire and settle
down to sleep with your sword by your side. Turn
fo 325.

132
The creature landing in front of you isa WYVERN.
It looks at you and opens its huge mouth to let out
another burning roar. Itis about ten metres long and
its thick scales look hard to penetrate with your
sword. Do you possess a flute? If you do, turn to
258. If you do not, turn to 167.

133
Slipping the ring on to your middle finger you are
suddenly gripped by an agonizing pain. Eventually
the pain subsides but you are unable to take off the
ning. You are wearing a cursed Ring of Slowness
which will force you to subtract 2 points from all
future dice rolls when computing your own Attack

134-137

Strength during combat. Note this on your Equip-
ment List. Lf you wish to try on the gauntlet, turn to
374. If wish to ignore the gauntlet (or have already
tried it on) you must walk north again along the
path — turn to 360.

134
You make a wish but nothing happens. Lose 1 LUCK
point. If you wish to rub some hot mud on to your
wounds, turn to 283. If you wish to set off north

along the path, turn to 303.

135
The tunnel continues north until at last you arrive at

a junction. If you wish to crawl west, turn to 284. If
you wish to crawl east, turn to 151.

136
You climb down the rope to the tunnel below. Soon
your eyes become accustomed to the dark and you
see that the tunnel is only one metre high. You must
craw] along on your hands and knees to explore it.
Turn to 69.

137
If you possess a Glove of Missile Dexterity, turn to

55. if you do not,turn to 16.

138-140

138

As you walk along the path through the waist-high
grasses you watch the grass rippling in the wind
Soon you get the uncomfortable feeling that the
grass has a will of its own and is moving indepen-
dently of the wind. Suddenly a clump of grass
stretches out across the path and wraps itself
around your ankie. Other clumps of grass try to
grab your arms and legs. You realize that you are
surrounded by TANGLEWEED. If you have a Po-
tion of Plant Control, turn to 64. If you do not, turn
to 159.

139
The effects of the belladonna and the bite of the
Werewolf wear off and you finally manage to get
back to sleep. In the morning you collect your
belongings and head north along the path into the
hills. Turn to 198.

140
You step around the bulbous mass of the Giant
Spider and settle down again to a nervous sleep.
You awake early in the morning and set off north
along the path. The ground is quite steep now as the

-_ ——m

-

141

path wends its way up into the hills. By the ime you
reach the top the sun is quite hot. All around in the
distance you see the tight green circle of Darkwood
Forest. Mist still hangs in the tall grasses behind you
but ahead you see a valley floor bathed in sunlight.
Allis quiet. As you start down the far side of the hill,
you see a junction in the path. You may:

Tum to 25
Turn to 267

Continue north down the hill
Go east along the new path

141
You ask the Dwarf if he comes from Stonebridge.
He glares at you and jumps to his feet, grabbing
his axe. He tells you that he hates the dwarfs of
Stonebridge and that he is searching Darkwood
Forest for Gillibran’s war-hammer to take it back to
his village, Mirewater, in the west. He tells you that
his name is Trumble and that his favourite eagle has
been lost while attempting to seize Gillibran’s war-
hammer. You realize that you are talking to an
enemy of Stonebridge; lose 1 LUCK point. If you
wish to attack Trumble, turn to 347. If you wish
to tell him that you are unable to help him, bid
him farewell and continue east along the path -
turn to 59.
142 Standing proudly in front of you is a magnificent white beast,

haif-man, half-horse.

142-144
142

As the path proceeds northwards, the grass be-
comes shorter and the ground starts to rise gently.
Ahead you can hear the sound of flowing water.
You soon reach the bank of a gently flowing river.
There is no bridge but you see that the path con-
tinues north on the other side of the river. Standing
proudly in front of you is a magnificent white beast,
half-man, half-horse. A bow and a quiver of arrows
are slung behind his back. He isa CENTAUR. Will
you:

Try to start a conversation with

him? Turn to 366
Walk around him and wade into
the river? Turn to178

Draw yourswordandattackhim? Turn to251

143
Your sword cuts through the metre-high fungus as
easily as if it were butter. A great cloud of spores is
released from the stem making it difficult to breathe.
You start to cough and splutter. Lose 2 STAMINA
points. If you are still alive, turn to 80.

Continuing your walk along the valley floor you see
the dark wall of Darkwood Forest looming up before
you once again. The path leads directly into the thick
undergrowth and soon you are walking between
tali trees and crowded thorn bushes. It is dark and
quiet. Before long, the path comes to a junction. If
145-147

you wish to head west, turn to 213. If you wish to
head east, turn to 387.

145

You untie the boat and start to row across the river
to the far bank, You are about half-way when you
notice that the bottom of the boat is beginning to fill
with water. Leaks appear everywhere. The boat is
rotten and starts to sink. You grab your possessions
and swim across to the other side. You climb out of
the river and are dismayed to see that all the remain-
ing Provisions in your backpack (if you have any)
have dissolved in the water. It is getting dark as
night closes in and you decide to camp behind some
rocks to the right of the path, You build a large fire
and settle down to sleep with your sword by your
side. Turn to 285

146

You look at the broken rock pile around your feet
and wonder how such a beast ever came into being
- perhaps from the misused power of an evil
elementalist? You will never know, If you wish to
take a piece of stone that was part of the Boulder
Beast for later examination, note it on your Equip-
ment List. You now return to the path and head
north down into the valley. Turn to 245.

147
The path heads north into the thick forest. In one of
the few clearings between the trees you see smoke
rising from the chimney of a wooden hut to your

148-151

right. If you want to look through the window of the
hut, turn to 38. If you wish to keep walking north,
turn to 220.

148
The path continues north and you soon reach
another junction. If you wish to continue north,
turn to 97. If you wish to go east, turn to 20.

149

As you walk across the valley you see the dark green
wall of Darkwood Forest looming up before you.
The path leads directly into thick undergrowth and
soon you are walking between tall dark trees and
thorny bushes. It is dark and quiet. The path forks.
If you wish to walk east, turn to 130. If you would
rather continue north, turn to 306.

150
Walking north across the green valley you see the
dark green wall of Darkwood Forest looming up
before you. The path leads straight into the thick
undergrowth and soon you are walking between
tall dark trees and thorny bushes. It is dark and
quiet and the path abruptly ends ata junction. [f you
wish to walk west, turn to 357. If you wish to head
east, turn to 171.

151
The tunnel ends at a cave entrance. A curtain hangs
over the entrance and you are unable to see inside. If
you wish to throw back the curtain and enter the

152~154

cave, turn to 71. If you wish to turn round and
return to the junction in the tunnel, turn to 296.

152
In its dying throes the black Fire Demon is engulfed
by its own fire. You step forward and grabits crown
as it shimps to the ground ina smouldering heap. Its
alcove lair is cold and dank. Inside there is a magni-
ficent throne in front of which cower two Clone
Warriors on their hands and knees, bowing to you

in worship. You have defeated their master. You
may:

Place the crown on your head Turn to 333
Sit on the throne Turn to 5
Step over the Fire Demon and

climb up to the roof Turn to 249

153
The Catwoman growls and snarls before leaping
down from the tree to attack you. You step back and
prepare to fight.

CATWOMAN

If you win, turn to 202. You may Escape by running
east along the path — turn to 355.

SKILL 8 STAMINA 5

154
You get to your feet and see that the Lantern has
turned a dull black colour. You decide to have no
more to do with it and set off north along the path
(turn to 231).

155-158

155
You settle down to sleep again but start toshake and

tremble. Sweat pours from your Dody although you
feel very cold. Do you possess any belladonna? If
you do, turn to 83. Otherwise turn to 259.

156
Falling to the ground is becoming a bit of a bad habit!
It is also beginning to hurt. Lose 3 sTAMINA points
for your injuries. If you are still alive, you get up and
continue northwards along the path. Turn to 109.

157
To the left of the path you notice a large hole in the
ground with a diameter of some three metres, Walk-
ing over to the edge of the hole you see it sloping off
into the depths of the earth, If you wish to walk
down into the hole, turn to 125. If you prefer to con-
tinue walking northwards up the path, tum to 337.

158

You start to lose your balance as the illusion distorts
your mind. You close your eyes and reach into your
backpack, pulling out the Headband of Concentra-
tion, which you quickly place on your head. The
spinning sensation in your head subsides and you
open your eyes again to see the old woman who you
now realize isa WITCH. To stop you reaching her,
the servant throws a wooden chair at you. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, the chair misses — turn to 47.
If you are Unlucky, the chair hits you on the side of
the head, knocking you unconscious — turn to 353.
oy
. dy ry
1) PAD

160 You arrive at a moss-covered wooden si ignpost, on top of which
sits @ large crow

159-160

159

Despite your struggles the Tangleweed manages to
grab your limbs and drag you to the ground. You
see the grass begin to curl itself round your neck and
tighten its grip. You choke and try to cough. But
then you realize that the Tangleweed is not trying to
strangle you — it is just trying to make as much
contact as it can with your exposed flesh so that it
can suck your blood! With horror, you see hundreds
of tiny blood-ringed punctures on your arms and
legs. Finally the weed, having drunk enough, re-
leases its grip, Lose 3 STAMINA points. If you are
still alive, you rise to your feet and stand shakily
rubbing your wounds. Relieved to be alive, you
start walking north again. Turn to 142

160
The narrow path continues to cut its way through
the tangled forest. Strange animal cries and noises
echo through the trees. At last the path widens to
approximately a metre across. Soon you arrive at a
moss-covered wooden signpost, on top of which
sits a large crow, The arms of the signpost read
‘North’ and ‘East’. Just as you are deciding which
way to continue, you hear the words “Goad after-
noon.’ You look up in the direction of the voice and
see the crow looking down at you inquisitively.
‘Good afternoon . . .,’ you reply slowly, feeling a
little foolish. The crow speaks again, asking which
way you are headed. You reply that you are
looking for two goblins, small, sinewy creatures

161-162

with brown, scaly skin. ‘1 Gold Piece will buy my
advice,’ states the crow confidently. Will you:

Pay the crow for its advice? Turn to 343
Ignore the crow and turn

north? Turn to 8
ignore the crow and carry on

eastwards? Turn to 239

161
As your hand descends into the inky blackness of
the vase it is gripped by an intense pain. First it feels
as if itis being crushed and then it feels as if it is on
fire. If you wish to pull your hand out of the vase,
turn to 185. If you want to feel around to find out
what is inside the vase, turn to 341.

162
There is nothing of use or value in the Fish Man’‘s
cave, so you walk round to the north side wall.
Steps lead back through the waterfall and up the
north wall of the gorge to the top. You are at the foot
of some hills and can see the path climbing up into
their midst in the north. It is getting dark and night

nl

163-164

is closing in, so you decide to camp behind some
rocks to the right of the path. You build a large fire
and settle down to sleep with your sword by your
side. Turn to 285.

163

Although it is a bright sunny day a tiny grey cloud
appears in the sky. It is very low and appears to be
moving towards you. As it approaches you see that
it is moving very quickly. Finally it hovers above
you some five metres off the ground. Suddenly a
bolt of lightning shoots out from the cloud, hitting
you on the shoulder. Lose 3 STAMINA points. If you
are still alive you see the cloud shoot off to the west
at high speed. You pull yourself together and set off
north again; turn to 375.

164
You climb the last few steps and then you are out of
the cavern standing on the rich green grass of the
valley floor. To the east you see the hollow tree
trunk down which you descended some time be-
fore. You pass it and return to the path, where you
head north again. Turn to 144.

165-167

165
The small Gremlin is agile, being able to run around
you while you have difficulty in moving about on
your hands and knees. You back up against a wall
and draw your sword.

GREMEIN SKILL 5

During each Attack Round you must reduce your
Attack Strength by 3 because of your cramped
fighting position. lf you win, turn to 242.

STAMINA 3

166
The friar smiles and says ‘Bless you.’ He bows and
sets off south along the path, whistling as he goes.
Add 2 LucK points and head north (turn to 390).

167
The Wyvern’s long tail swishes from side to side and
smoke curls up from its nostrils. You draw your
sword and prepare to fight this fearsome monster,

WYVERN SKILL 10 STAMINA 11

If you win, turn to 305.

168-169

168
Inside the cage a small, sinewy creature with
brown, scaly skin is jumping up and down — heisa
GOBLIN. Round his neck hangs a black shiny rod
on a leather cord. If you want to unlock the cage
door, turn to 117. If you want to leave the cave
and continue northwards, turn to 358.

169

The gas is toxic and your eyes start to water You
coueh and hold your breath while running round
the cave trying to escape from the gas cloud which
envelops you. Your lungs feel as though they are
bursting and you ere forced to inhale. Reduce your
SKILL by 2 and vour sSTAMENA by the amount of ane
die roll. If you are still alive you will see the gas
coud fade away, You put the silver box in your
backpack. If you want to walk over to the creature
in the cage, turn to 85. If you would rather ieave
the cave to continue your journey northwards,
turn to 358.
170-172

170
You walk into a well-furnished room adorned with
fine objects and woollen rugs. Sitting at a desk by
. the far wall of the room is an old man wearing

purple robes and a conical hat. He rises from his
| AH iB chair and says, ‘lam Arragon and you are an insig-
yaa \ | | nificant mortal. You have the nerve to walk into my
| household uninvited, no doubt to rob me of my
wealth and treasure. You are wrong, stranger, for |
Wiha t ll will relieve you of your wealth. Unless you give me
| 10 Gold Pieces and two objects from your backpack
2 — to add to my exquisite collection, J will turn you to
Re, | yout stone.’ Are you wearing the Eye of Amber? If you

a aL | | are, turn to 223. If not, turn to 346.

oe | | 7 171

3 The path comes to another junction. The way south
\ ! v } leads back to the valley so you decide to stay in the
\ , } AND . forest and head north. Turn to 190.

S ; Why | A ladder runs down the inside of the well to the
~ : ae nh) water below. However, there appears to bea tunnel
as = . just above the surface of the water, running north. It
a a By Sat is circular and has a diameter of one metre. You
: , f I | HH) : = may:
ey ty AY | Toss a Gold Piece into the well
“ aa eee Oe to make a wish Turn to 89
“ ‘ pH il | SS Descend the ladder to look down

170 Sitting at a desk is an old ma j le robe JO GERI Turn to 256
HW
comical hak eee roves and a Return to the path to head east Turn to 281

173-174

173

You take from your backpack the glass phial con-
taining the sparkling dust and sprinkle it on the
stone slab. Slowly the stone slab starts to rise into
the air. You peer into the box and are horrified to see
a rotting corpse lying there, Ragged clothes cover a
skeletal body with loose flesh hanging from it. You
have lifted the lid off a coffin containing some
cursed undead creature and jump back in horror as
you see its eyes flick open. You are in a crypt made
foul by some unknown follower of darkness. Slowly
the creature rises out of its coffin and moves to-
wards you with outstretched arms. Do you possess
any Holy Water? If you do, turn to 58, If not, turn to
227.

174

As you draw your sword from the carcass of the
Wild Boar you wonder what made it attack you. In
the distance you hear the sound of barking dogs,
Perhaps it was being hunted and, being trapped,
made its last stand against you. Through the nose of
the Boar you see a large gold ring which you cut
loose and place in your backpack. It is worth to Gold
Pieces. Add 1 Luck point and tur to 323,

175-177

175
The iron lock on the chest is old and rusted and will
not open. If you wish to try to lift the chest and
smash it on the floor, turn to 372. If you would
rather leave it and rummage through the fireplace
instead, turn to 106.

176

You bend down over the lifeless body of the mad
Goblin and examine the rod around its neck, The
rod is made of ebony and there ts a screw thread at
one end. You are excited to see the letter G neatly
inscribed at the other end of what must be the
handle of the dwarfish war-hammer. You put your
find in your backpack and leave the cave to continue
your quest northwards. Turn to 358.

177
Outside in the bright light you notice the dead
quietness again. A narrow path leads northwards
from the tall grass surrounding Yaztromo’s tower
into the dense undergrowth of Darkwood Forest. In
a few strides you are surrounded by the dark and
tangled forest; stones and knotted roots seem to

178

hide in the shadows and you can almost believe that
they are trying to trip you up. The light fades
quickly and the air becomes moist and unpleasant.
Deeper and deeper you go, into the gloom. Even-
tually the path forks on either side of a huge old tree,

To go west
To go east

Turn to 289
Turn to 160

178
As you wade into the river the Centaur gallops off
south down the path. The water is dark green in
colour and you wonder if any creatures lurk in its
depths. Although the water only rises to your waist
itis very cold and your legs feel numb. You think
something is touching your legs, maybe weeds, but
it is difficult to tell. Eventually you reach the far
bank and haul yourself out of the river. You look
down at your legs and are horrified to see a bloated
black Leech, some six inches long, clinging to your
thigh. You reach into your backpack and take salt
from your Provisions to rub on to the hideous
Leech. It curls up and falls off your leg. Lose one
portion of your Provisions. You kick the shrivelled

|

179-180

Leech back into the river and look around you. You
are now at the foot of some hills and it is beginning
to get dark. You see that the path winds its way
north up into the hills and you decide to camp under
a huge, old oak tree to the right of the path. Later
you settle down to sleep with your sword by your
side. Turn to 298.

179
You place the helmet on your head. A surge of
power starts to run through your body, making you
feel strong and unafraid. The helmet has magical
properties and will allow you to add 1 point to all
future dice rolls when computing your own Attack
Strength during combat so long as you wear it. Note
this on your Equipment List. You start walking
north again, pleased with your new armour. Turn to

115.

180
Walking quickly along the path through waist-high
grass, you arrive at another junction in the path. If
you want to continue walking north, tum to 105. [f
you wish to go west, turn to 361.

“ wtl. " o = a ee --

181 A strange creature climbs out of the pool

 -

181-183

181

You walk along the steps through the waterfall into
a large cavern where there is a pool of still water.
The steps run round the side of the pool and there is
a stone table and chair on the far side. You go to the
table and see fish scraps lying on it. Suddenly you
hear a noise of splashing behind you. A strange
creature climbs out of the pool and advances to-
wards you armed with a trident. His legs are like a
man’s, but his face and torso resemble a large green
fish with bulbous eyes. His arms are like yours but
are covered with large scales. He is a FISH MAN
and you must fight him.

FISH MAN SKILL 7

if you win, turn to 162.

STAMINA 6

182

You take hold of the sword and place your foot
against the rock. Roll two dice. If the number rolled
is equal to or less than your current SKILL score, the
sword slowly slides out of the rock (turn to 79). If the
number rolled is greater than your current SKILL
score, the sword wil] not move. You tire and are
forced to give up and continue north down the
gorge; turn to 334.

183
You slowly inhale the poisonous air around you,
but all is well and you can breathe freely. After a
while the gas cloud fades away. However, there
does not seem to be much sense in staying here any

184-186

longer and you walk over to the Steps on the far
wall. Turn to 293.

184
You explain to the friar that you took a brass bell
from a Cave Troll in the hills, You show it to himand
he jumps for joy, shouting, ‘Oh mercy, what for-
fine, what fortune.’ He reaches into a leather
pouch on the string belt around his waist and pulls
outa small glass phial. You give him the brass bell
and take the glass phial. You uncork the phial and
drink its contents. Add 4 points to your STAMINA
score, The friar shakes your hand, thanking you
over and over again, At last you part company,
with you continuing north and the friar walking
south, Turn to 390.

185

You are surprised to see no mark or sign of injury on
your hand. You try to put your hand back into the
vase bul an invisible barrier across the Opening
Stops you from doing so. You may either drop the
vase to the ground to smash it (tum to 250) or put it
down on the porch and return to the path to head
north again, Turn to 149.

186
You step into the water and start to wade across the
river. The water is quite murky and although the
level only rises to your waist you feel somewhat
vulnerable to the creatures that may live in the river.
Suddenly your fears are realized — you feel sharp

187-188

teeth sinking into your thigh. You reach down into
the water and fee] the long thin body of a BLOOD
EEL extending from your leg. You draw your sword
and start to stab at the water.

BLOOD EEL SKILL §

If you win, turn to 131.

STAMINA 4

187

Walking along the twisting path you see a small,
sinewy creature with brown, scaly skin sitting on a
log on the right of the path. He has a sullen expres-
sion on his face as he slowly tosses a black shiny
rod on a feather cord back and forth between his
hands. He might be one of the Goblins you are
looking for. Will you:

Draw your sword and attack

the Goblin? Turn to 286
Try to start a conversation

with the Goblin? Turn to 203
Ignore him and continue

walking north? Turn to 6

188

Walking down the hill you sée the valley floor
stretching out ahead and, beyond, a sinister wall of
trees ~ Darkwood! On the other side of the trees lies
Stonebridge, your journey’s end. Arriving on the
valley floor you see that the path comes to a junc-
tion. If you want to head west, turn to 221. If you
want to head east, turn to 359.
189—192

189
The green-topped fungi are being watered by two of
the humanoids. If you want to eat some of the
fungus, turn to 26g. If you wish to leave the cavern
by the steps on the far wall, turn to 293.

190
Ahead you hear the thumping of heavy footsteps
and the noise of branches breaking. It sounds as
though some huge creature is coming down the
path towards you! If you wish to face the oncoming
beast, turn to 265. If you would rather hide in the
bushes off the path, turn to 318.

191

The tnar is very nervous and jittery and shuffles
from side to side as you start to speak, You ask him
why he is so distraught and he tells you that his
sacred brass bell kas been stelen, As payment for its
return he is willing to offer a magic healing potion.
Do you have a brass bell? If you do, turn to 184. If
you do not, turn to 243,

192
You draw your sword but the Gnome sits with his
legs crossed and smiles. You look down at your
hand and see that you are not holding your sword
any longer — it has turned inte a carrot! If you wish
to apologize to the Gnome for being so rash, turn
to 12. If you would rather throw your carrot at him,
turn to 46.

193-194
193
A small green-skinned GREMLIN steps off the
ladder to enter the tunnel. He stands no more than a
metre high and is surprised to see you crouched in
the tunnel. He draws a dagger from a pocket in his
jerkin. You must fight him.

GREMLIN

During each Attack Round you must reduce your
Attack Strength by 3 because of your cramped
fighting position. If you win, turn to 110.

SKILL 4 STAMINA 4

194

The man smiles and takes off his mask, explaining
that he wore it to protect him against the dust and
not to hide the face of a robber. You sheathe your
sword and relax a little. The man tells you that he isa
hunter and that the best game in all the northern
borderlands can be found on this grassy plain with-
in Darkwood Forest. He says that his hounds were
chasing a Wild Boar when they lost its scent and
picked up that of the fox mistakenly. He warns you
of some of the dangerous beasts that lurk in these
parts and finally says, ‘And if you are going to
spend the night in Darkwood, you might need some
of this.’ He drops some belladonna into your hand
and jumps back on his stallion. Then with a sudden
blow of his horn, the dogs run off east. He turns and
waves to you before galloping off in pursuit of his
dogs. You put the belladonna into your backpack
and set off west again. Turn to 208.
195-196

195

You reach the top of the vine and scramble on to a
wooden platform. A sheet made from leaves and
ferns covers the entrance to a smal! covered living
area. As you approach, the sheet is thrown back,
and from behind it steps a large and hairy ape-like
creature wearing only an anima!-hide loin cloth. He
is holding a large bone in his right hand and grunts
at you. He isan APE MAN. You may:

Draw your sword and attack

him Turn to 352
Jump off the platform to the
ground five metres below Turn to 156
196

You step into the dark cavern with your sword
drawn. The air is cold and moist. You hear a loud
snoring and as your eyes adjust to the darkness you
see the large bulk of a CAVE TROLL asleep in a
large stone chair. His skin is brown and wrinkled,
and he is wearing animal hides. A wooden club lies
across his lap and a large leather bag hangs on the
back of the stone chair. Will you:

Creep up and take the leather

bag while the Cave Troll

sleeps? Turn to 376
Take out the Net of Entangle-

ment (if you have it) from

195 The creature ts holding a laree bone tn his hand and grunts at

you. your backpack? Turn to 39
Walk back to the junction and
head north? Turn to 25

J

197-199

197
If you possess a Potion of Anti-Poison, turn to 24. If

not, turn to 53.

198

The ground is quite steep as the path wends its way
into the hills. By the time you reach the top the sun
is quite hot. All around in the distance you see the
dark green circle of Darkwood Forest. Mist still
hangs in the tall grasses behind you but ahead you
see a valley floor bathed in sunlight. Allis quiet. As
you start down the far side of the hill you see a
junction in the path. You may either continue north
down the hill (turn to 278) or head east along the
new branch (turn to 87).

199
To the left of the path you notice a large mud pool

bubbling loudly. Steam rises from the thick bubbles
breaking the surface of the mud, You may:

Throw a Gold Piece in the

mud and make a wish Turn to 134
Rub some hot mud on to your

wounds Turn to 283
Continue north along the path Turn to 303

ee 2

200-202

200
You take the small silver key from out of your
backpack and place it into the keyhole. It fits per-
fectly and you give it a turn. The lock clicks and the
stone door swings open. Stone stairs lead down
from the door into gloomy depths. You cannot see a
thing down the stairs. If you wish to descend the
stairs, turn to 351. If you wish to leave the building,
return to the path and head north, turn to 112.

201

If you have not done so already, you may try toopen
the wooden chest — turn to 389. Alternatively you
may leave the alcove to climb further up the steps -
turn to 88.

202
The eats of the Catwoman are pierced by two gold
studs. They are worth 5 Gold Pieces each and you
put them into your backpack. You set off east along
the twisting path — turn to 355.

203-204

203

As you start to speak the Goblin looks up and
smiles. Then he starts to metamorphose before your
eyes. He becomes taller and turns green. A large
spiny tail extends from his back, his arms thicken
and his hands grow sharp claws. His face distorts
and becomes reptilian with red eyes, a wide mouth
and dozens of razor-sharp teeth. He is not a Goblin
buta SHAPE CHANGER, and you must fight him.

7 eo ZEA Yo SHAPE CHANGER SKILL 10. ~— STAMINA 10
Sa 2 hr ww 4
mies K _———

2g +t ioe ae)

If you win, turn to 373.

oo Pitas =

204
The path leads through the field to a stone bridge
over a clear stream. Beyond the bridge are the small
cottages and wooden huts ofa village. A sign on the
bridge reads ‘Stonebridge’. You cross the bridge
and see two old dwarfs with long white beards
standing by a cottage looking at you. Do you
have the hammer head and handle with the letter
os G inscribed in them? If you do, turn to 4oo. If
204 Beyond the bridge are the small cottages and wooden huts of a you possess neither or only one of these items,
village. turn to 381.

——

205-208

205
Each Pygmy has a small, leather pouch hung
around his neck. You find 3 Gold Pieces in each.
You take the gold and return to the path to continue
your northwards journey. Turn to 92.

206
Suddenly off the path to your left you hear cries for
help. If you wish to go to the aid of the person
in trouble, turn to 253. If you would rather ignore
the cries and continue your journey north, turn to
187.

207

You step over the body of the Ape Man and enter his
living area. Animal bones and rotting fruit litter the
floor, The Ape Man's bed is made of moss and
lichen and seems to be crawling with bugs. You
shudder and step back out on to the platform. You
then notice a copper bracelet around the Ape Man’s
wrist, If you want to put it on your own wrist, turn
to 302. [f you would rather climb down the vine to
the path, and carry on walking northwards, turn to
109.

208
You soon arrive at a crossroads. The way south
leads back to the forest so you decide to ignore it.
You may either keep going west (turn to 99) or head
north (turn to 291).

209-211

209
As you enter the hut the big man smiles. He looks
pleased to see you and starts to speak in a deep
voice. ‘Welcome stranger. My name is Quin and |
earn my living by my arms. Would you care for a
little wager perhaps at arm wrestling?’ Ifyou wish to
accept the challenge, turn to 28. If you wish to
decline his offer, you politely refuse and return to
the junction in the path — turn to 349.

210

The men curse and jump up and down in anger at
having missed you. They start to argue and push
each other around. They seem to forget all about
you. If you want to attack the WILD HILL MEN,
turn to 43. If you want to walk past them along the
path while they are still arguing, turn to 188.

211
You take the small bottle labelled Potion of Anti-
Poison from your backpack and gulp down the
contents. The pain in your stomach gradually fades
away and you relax. There does not appear to be
much sense in staying here any Jonger and you walk
over to the steps on the far wall. Turn to 293.

212 You see four small humanoids wearing leather armour and
carrying long spears

SS

212-214

212
Inside the alcove you see four more of the small
humanoids. But these wear leather armour and
carry long spears. They move to attack you and you
are forced to fight the CLONE WARRIORS. They
come at you one at a time:

SKILL STAMINA

First CLONE WARRIOR 5 5
Second CLONE WARRIOR 6 4
Third CLONE WARRIOR 5 6
Fourth CLONE WARRIOR 6 5

If you win, turn to 321. You may Escape by running
out of the alcove and up the steps. Turn to 107.

213
The path twists and turns between the trees and
bushes, and then comes to another junction. You
realize that the way south leads back to the valley
and so you decide to ignore it and head north — turn
to 306.

214

You reach into your backpack and uncork the small
bottle containing the healing potion. The pain in
your leg is agonizing but rapidly dies down as the
potion takes effect. Soon your leg is fully mended
and you are able to stand on your feet. Your eyes are
now accustomed to the dark and you see that the
tunnel is only one metre high and you must crawl
along on your hands and knees to explore it. Turn to
69.
——————————

215
Inside the barre! you find a heavy iron shield. If you
wish to take it with you, turn to 248. If you do not
wish to touch it, turn to 201,

216
The path leads along a ridge of the hill and ends at
another junction. You see that the way south leads

back to the river, so you decide to head north again.
Turn to 278

217
You walk around the lifeless bulk of the worm to
examine the contents of its lair. There are several
skeletons, perhaps those belonging to other unfor-
tunate adventurers, By the side of one of them you
find a leather backpack. Inside the backpack you
find 4 Gold Pieces and a small, corked bottle con-
tairung a colourless liquid. If you wish to drink the
contents of the bottle, turn to 262 If you would
rather leave the dark cavern and scramble back up to
on path again taking just the gold with you, turn to
37:

218

218

You curse as you wonder who set this infernal trap.
After ten minutes you hear footsteps and begin to
panic, making frantic swaying movements in the air
trying to free your foot from the noose. Thena small
boy dressed in green leather shotts and green shirt
appears. He is chewing on what looks like a chicken
bone. He walks underneath you, looks up and
smiles, saying, ‘Ha, ha, somebody’s caught in the
Ogre’s tree trap.’ You ask him politely to pass you
your sword.

‘That will cost you 5 Gold Pieces — or perhaps you
have a nice magical item for me?’ he says, eyes
widening.

You are in no position to argue and must give the
boy the gold or one of your magical items (if you
have any). Make the necessary deduction on your
Adventure Sheet. The small boy then passes you
your sword and runs away down the path. You cut
the rope holding your foot and fall heavily to the
ground. You get to your feet and brush the dirt from
your clothes. To continue northwards, turn to 274.
219-222

219
You notice that the small dart that protrudes from
the Bear’s chest is made of silver. Its value is 5 Gold
Pieces and you may put it in your backpack if you
Wish, Add 1 tucx point for your discovery. You
now return to the path and head north (turn to 300).

220
Walking along the narrow path you notice a big old
tree to your left with a large hole in its trunk just
above head height. [f you wish to reach up to put
your hand into the hole, turn to 275. If you would
rather continue walking north, turn to 115.

221

The valley flooris covered with lush green grass and
is very flat. You soon arrive at another junction in
the path. You may either continue west (turn to 378)
or head north again (turn to 199).

222
There is no escaping the poisonous gas cloud which
has enveloped you. Your lungs feel as if they are

223

bursting and you are forced to inhale. Reduce your
STAMINA score by the amount of one die roll. If you
are still alive you see the cloud drift away at last and
you are able to breathe freely again. There does not
seem to be much point in staying here any longer
and you walk over to the steps on the far wall (turn

to 293).

223
The jewel hanging round your neck starts to glow.
Perhaps Arragon is not all that he says he is. You
draw your sword and challenge him. The expres-
sion on Arragon’s face changes from confidence to
fear. He then apologizes for being so aggressive but
explains that these lands are filled with bandits and
murderers and he has to protect himself by pretend-
ing to be a wizard of supreme power. He begs
forgiveness and offers you 5 Gold Pieces if you will
leave him in peace and tell nobody of his disguise.
You accept his offer and leave his cottage. You walk
back to the junction in the passage and head north
(turn to 150).

224-226

224
One of the Death Hawks has a silver band around
one of its legs. It has an inscription on it which reads
‘Death awaits you’. You decide to leave the silver
band and head quickly west (turn to 332).

225

You curse and pull yourself out of the water on to
the entrance of the tunnel. You are surprised to see
that it is lit by torches at regular intervals along its
length. If you wish to crawl along the tunnel, turn to
135. If you wish to climb back up the ladder and
return to the path, turn to 362.

226

To the right of the path you hear voices arguing in a
strange language coming through the trees. If you
wish to step off the path to investigate, turn to 29. If
you would rather ignore the voices and press on
north along the path, turn to 254.

227-229

227
The creature about to attack you with its claws is a
GHOUL.

GHOUL SKILL 9

It has the ability to paralyse you if it scores four
separate wounds on you during this battle. If you
defeat the Ghoul, turn to 312. If it kills you or
paralyses you, turn to 2.

STAMINA 7

228

The pit is circular, with smooth sides, and you are
weak from your fall. You reach into your backpack
and pull out the brown leather boots. They are very
light on your feet. You crouch down and in one
mighty leap you are out of the pit. You dust yourself
off and continue your walk north down the gorge.
Turn to 255

229
As you touch the wooden box, the lid flies up
without your having to lift it. From out of the box
leaps a tiny green-skinned creature with a large
head. He has a long nose and pointed ears and his
clothes are made of sacking. You are taken by
surprise and the GREMLIN tries to stab you with
his dagger. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, you
manage to dodge the thrusting blade (turn to 165). If
you are Unlucky, the blade sinks into your thigh
(turn to 45).

230-231

230
Slowly you peer into the cave and see the huge
shape of an OGRE walking slowly over to a wicker
cage with a bowl of water in his great hand. He is
dressed in animal furs and carries a stone club in his
belt, There appears to be a smail creature jumping
around inside the cage. You may:

Pick up a rock and throw it

at the Ogre Turn to 137
Rush in and attack the Ogre
with your sword Turn to 290
Leave the cave and continue
up the path Turn to 358
231

The path twists and turns and then makes a sudden
sharp turn to the west. Following the new course
vou are aware of squawking in the trees all around
you. You hear the flapping of wings and look up to
see three large birds swooping down on you. Their
beaks and talons look razor-sharp. You only have a
second in which to draw your sword to defend
vourself against the DEATH HAWKS.

SKILL STAMINA
First DEATH HAWK 4 4
Second DEATH HAWK 4 3
Third DEATH HAWK 5 -

Fight them one at a time and if you win, turn to 224.
You may escape by running west along the path.
Turn to 332.

“"

Sey

“4
’

230 Ai Ogre walks slowly over to a wicker cage with a bow! of water

m1 tis great hand.

232-235

232
You bend down over the lifeless body of the mad
Goblin and examine the rod around its neck. The
rod is made of ebony and there is a screw thread at
one end. You are excited to see the letter G neatly
inscribed at the other end of what must be the
handle of the dwarfish war-hammer. You put your
find in your backpack. Add 1 Lucx point. If you
wish to search through the contents of the cave,
turn to 263. If you want to leave the cave and
continue northwards, turn to 358.

233
To the right of the path you see a stone well with a
bucket and turning handle. If you wish to take a
closer look at the well, turn to 17. If you would
rather continue your walk west, turn to 238.

234
You arrive back at the junction in the path. Ignoring
the way south you head west. Turn to 382.

235

You reach quickly into your backpack and pull out
the small corked bottle containing the potion, You
gulp down the liquid. Calm spreads through your
body despite the chaos all around you, Suddenly
the hut collapses and crashes to the ground: You
decide it is time to get out of this place and run back
to the path to head north, Add 1 tuck point and
turn to 149

236-239

236
The path ends outside a stone cottage with a
thatched roof. A plaque above the wooden door
reads ‘Arragon the Arch-Mage’. If you wish to enter
the cottage, turn to 170. If you would rather return
to the junction in the path and head north, turn to

150.

237
You land heavily on the ground, and you hear an
ugly snapping sound. Pain shoots through your leg
and you realize it is broken. Lose 2 LUCK points. Do
you possess a Potion of Healing? If you do, turn to
214. If you do not, turn to 304.

238
Walking west along the valley Moor, you pass a
junction in the path, which leads south and back
into the hills. You decide to keep on walking west.
Turn to 224.

239
The path continues to cut its way through the dense
undergrowth and you feel a little claustrophobic
with the trees overhanging you on either side. After
a while the path turns sharply to the left at a tree

240-242

bearing strange fruit. If you wish to stop to eat some
of the fruit, turn to 37. If you wish to proceed north
without stopping to eat, turn to 226.

240
You gently prise the lid off the box, but as you do
so, a yellow gas escapes and envelops your face.
If you possess Nose Filters, turn to 338. If not, turn
to 169.

241
As you wend your way through the trees in the
direction of the growling, you suddenly come face
to face with a huge, brown BEAR. A small dart
protrudes from its chest and it looks mad with pain
and rage. You draw your sword and prepare to

fight.

BEAR SKILL 7 STAMINA 8

If you win, turn to 219.

242
Rummaging through some bedding in a chest of
drawers you find an ingot of gold. It is worth 28
Gold Pieces. However it is very heavy and if you
wish to take it with you, some other object from

243-245

“our backpack will have to be discarded. There is no
other exit from the cave and you have to crawl back
down the tunnel to the junction (turn to 121).

243
You tell him that you are sorry, but you have not
seen his brass bell. The poor old friar frowns and
‘hen asks you if you would like to give him 1 Gold
Piece for a good cause. If you do, turn to 166. If you
do not wish to make the donation, turn to 33,

244
The effects of the fever finally wear off and you
gratefully fall asleep again. In the morning you
collect your belongings and head north along the

path to the hills. Turn to 198.

245
Arriving on the valley floor you find that the path
splits.

To continue north Turn to 163
To go west Turn to 233
Turn to 393

To go east

246-249

246
The BANDIT woman takes the items from you and
steps back to let you pass. You head north again and
soon notice the trees beginning to thin out on either
side of the path. Eventually the path leads out of the
trees into a ploughed field. You are out of Dark-
wood Forest! Turn to 204.

247
The loathsome Pterodacty] lies in a crumpled heap

where it crashed to the floor after the fatal blow from
your sword. Walking over to it you notice a yellow
arrow painted on the grass beside the path, pointing
west. If you wish to follow the arrow, turn to 3. If
you wish to keep going north along the path, turn to
144.

248

You now possess an emperor's shield made long
ago by a master armourer. Add 1 Luck point. The
shield will give you greater defence in all future
battles. Should a creature wound you, throw one
die. If you throw a 4, 5, or 6, its damage to you will
be reduced by 1 point. If you have not done so
already, you may now either try to open the
wooden chest (turn to 389) or leave the alcove to
climb further up the steps (turn to 98).

249
You look back into the strange cavern and see the
humanoid clone workers continuing their labours in

250-252

the fungi field. You shake your head in disbelief and
run up the last few steps to the hole in the cavern
roof. Turn to 164.

250
The vase drops to the ground but does not break
although cracks appear all over it, You begin to feela
vibration and then you notice cracks appearing all
over the porch and the sides of the hut. The vibra-
tions become stronger — your whole body starts to
tremble and your head feels as if it is about to
explode. Lose 2 STAMINA points. If you are still
alive, turn to 82.

251
As you draw your sword the Centaur reaches for his
bow and arrows. Before you can reach him he lets
fly an arrow straight at you. Roll two dice. If the
number rolled is less than or equal to your SKILL
score, you manage to dodge the arrow; turn to 63
If the number rolled is greater than your SKILL
score, you are unable to dodge the arrow which
lodges itself into your shoulder. Lose 4 STAMINA
points. If you are still alive, you pull the arrow,
painfully, out of your shoulder; turn to 260.

252
You arrive at a four-way junction in the path. South
leads back to the forest so you discount that option
If you wish to head north, turn to 309. If you wish to
continue east, turn to 72.

253 A man dressed in long dark robes has his foot caught in a rusted
rabbit snare

253-256

253

Clambering over the gnarled roots of the old trees
you head in the direction of the cries. After a few
minutes you see a man dressed in long dark robes
with his foot caught ina rusted rabbit snare. His face
is masked by the robes and only his dark brown eyes
are visible. If you want to help the man free his foot
from the snare, turn to 344. If you decide against
helping him, return to the path and head north —
turn to 187.

254
Further along the narrow path you hear a deep
growl to your left in the trees. If you want to see
what creature is growling, turn to 241. If you prefer
to ignore the creature and continue north along the
path, turn to 300.

255
Continuing down the gorge you see the handle ofa
sword sticking out from a large rock by the side of
the path. [f you wish to try to pull the sword free
from the rock, turn to 182. If you wish to continue
walking down the gorge, turn to 334.

256
Climbing down the Jadder you do not notice that a
rung is missing. You slip and lose your footing.
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, you manage to hang
on to the ladder with your hands; turn to 122. If you
are Unlucky, you fall off the ladder and plunge to
the water below; turn to 295.
257-259

257
Inside the backpack you find some elven bread
which will restore 4 STAMINA points if you eat it.
Add 1 Luck point and turn to 31.

258

You reach into your backpack and pull out the tiny
brass flute. You have a strange feeling that you must
play it now, before the enraged Wyvern. As you do,
a soft and gentle sound plays out from the flute and
a quizzical look appears on the Wyvern's face. Its
mouth closes and its eyelids start to droop. You are
playing a magical Flute of Dragonsleep and the
Wyvern is powerless to resist its soothing song,
Slowly the Wyvern slumps to the ground and is
soon fast asleep. Turn to 305.

259
You feel a burning sensation inside your body as
you sink into a raging fever. You may be about
to change into a Werewolf yourself! Lose 3
STAMINA points and Test your Luck if you are still
alive. If the number rolled is equal to or less than
your LUCK score, the fever dies down — turn to 244.
If the number rolled is greater than your LUCK score,

260-261

the fever continues to grip your body and you are
horrified to see thick brown hair appearing on the
back of your hands. Shock causes you to lose 2
additional srAMINA points. If you are still alive,
turn to 19.

260

On seeing that the arrow has not killed you the
Centaur rears up on to his hind legs and then
charges you at a gallop. You have to jump back to
avoid being run down. He thunders past you in 4
cloud of dust and stops some ten metres away down
the path you have just come along, Maybe fighting
the noble Centaur is not such a good idea after all,
You sheathe your sword and decide to wade across
the river. Turn to 178.

261
You follow the huffing and puffing old man in his
tattered robes up the spiral staircase to a large room
at the top of the tower. Shelves, cupboards and
cabinets line the walls, all filled with bottles, jars,
weapons, armour and all manner of strange arte-
facts. Yaztromo shuffles past the general clutter and
slumps down in an old oak chair. He reaches into

his top pocket and pulls out a fragile pair of gold-
rimmed spectacles. Placing these on his nose, he
picks up a piece of slate and chalk from a table next
to his chair and begins to write frantically. He then
hands you the slate.

1TEM COST
Potion of Healing 3 Gold Pieces
Potion of PlantControl + = - ---—2 Gold Pieces
Potion of Stillness. 3 Gold Pieces
Potion of Insect Control 2 Gold Pieces
Potion of Anti-Poison 2 Gold Pieces
Holy Water ——-—___ 3 Gold Pieces
Ring of Light 3 Gold Pieces
Boots of Leaping 2 Gold Pieces
Rope of Climbing , 3 Gold Pieces
Net of Entanglement 3 Gold Pieces
Armband of Strength 3 Gold Pieces
Glove of Missile Dexterity 2 Gold Pieces
Rod of Water-finding - 2 Gold Pieces
Garlic Buds - 2 Gold Pieces
Headband of Concentration 3 Gold Pieces
Fire Capsules —.... 3 Gold Pieces

Nose Filters 3 Gold Pieces

He tells you that all the instructions for use are
written clearly on the labels attached to the items,
together with their suggested use. He sighs and tells
you that unfortunately the magic in the items only
works once, but they are the best you can buy for the
money.

If you decide to buy any of the items, pay for them
by reducing the amount of Gold on your Adventure
Sheet and add the items to the relevant sections on
it. Yaztromo then asks you the reason for the pur-
chase of the items, and you tell him your story and
your decision to continue the quest of the luckless
Bigleg. ‘Ah yes,’ Yaztromo says siowly, rubbing his
chin, ‘I heard that the good dwarfs of Stonebridge
had lost their fabled war-hammer. Without it, their
king is unable to arouse his people, despite the fact
that the hill trolls threaten their village. Rumour has
it that an envious king of another village of dwarfs
sent an eagle to Stonebridge to steal the hammer,
which it managed to do. But as it flew back over
Darkwood, it was attacked by death hawks and the
hammer dropped into the forest and was lost.
Apparently, two forest goblins found the hammer
but could not decide who was to keep it. They
wrestled for hours but gave up. Then they dis-
covered that the handle unscrewed from the head,
and the argument was settled. One kept the head,
the other kept the handle. Then they parted, each
happy with his new treasure. Who knows if they
still have them. So I'm afraid your problems are

262-263

doubled. I can tell you that the head is made of
bronze and the handle is made of polished ebony.
Both head and handle have the letter G inscribed on
them. Your task is not easy. Good luck.’

You thank Yaztromo and leave the room by the
spiral staircase. Turn to 177.

262

You look at the bottle in your hand and then amen
gulp down its contents, You wait several seconds
for some reaction, but nothing happens. However,
when you come to pick up your sword, which you
had put down to examine the backpack, a surge of
confidence runs through your body. The liquid is a
Potion of Weapon Skill which will allow you to add 1
point to future dice rolls when computing your own
Attack Strength during combat. Its effect will last for
your next two combat encounters. Taking the gold,
you scramble up out of the earthen cavern to the
path above and continue your journey northwards.
Turn to 337.

263
There is not much of interest to be found in the cave,
A straw bed, stone jars, a table and a chair are all

264

that is immediately visible, but on a stone shelf
above the bed, a small silver box catches your eye. If
you want to open the silver box, turn to 126. If you
would rather leave the cave and go north up the
path without the silver box, turn to 358.

264

The small humanoid is a clone and has no will of its
own. It puts up no defence. Your sword cleaves its
head from its shoulders and it slumps to the
ground. The others take no notice of you. You
wonder who is controlling them all. Suddenly you
notice that the cloned humanoid that you beheaded
is dissolving into a pool of purple liquid and a new
fungus sprouts out of the soil. As the fungus rises,
the purple pool drains into the ground. The fungus
has a purple top which moves round to face you.
You may:

Stay to watch the purple-

topped fungus Turn to 367
Head towards the green-topped

fungus Turn to 189
Head towards the red-topped

fungus Turn to 282

Nipe Soe eg Ne

265 The Giant appears to be in a hurry and is crashing through the
undergrowth as if if weren't there.

265-266

265

The thumping and crashing gets louder and sud-
denly you see a huge leg appear in front of you.
Looking up you see that the leg belongs to a man
some five metres tall. He is wearing brown canvas
clothing and fur boots. He appears to be in a hurry
and is crashing through the undergrowth as though
it isn’t there. He is a FOREST GIANT. On seeing
you his eyes widen and he raises his great wooden
club. You must fight him.

FOREST GIANT SKILL
If you win, turn to 356.

STAMINA 9

266

Quin explains that he will wager some Dust of
Levitation against an item or coins to the value of 10
Gold Pieces. You sit down at the table opposite him.
You put your elbow on to the table and lock hands
with him. His grip is like an iron vice and his dark
slanted eyes look confident. His biceps bulge and he
gives the signal for the contest to begin. Roll two
dice. If the number rolled is less than or equal to
your SKILL score, you manage with great effort to
push his arm down slightly. He is strong and will
not give in easily. You must roll successfully against
your SKILL score two more times before you are able
to push his arm down on to the table top. If you are
successful, turn to 354. If any of the three rolls
exceeds your SKILL score, your arm gives way to
Quin’s strength and collapses on to the table top —
turn to 129.

—

267-269

267
The path leads to a large cave entrance and does not
appear to go any further east. If you want to enter
the cave, turn to 196. If you would rather return to
the junction and go north, turn to 25.

268

You reach quickly into your backpack and pull out
the Garlic Buds. The Vampire Bats close in on vou
but veer away at the last second, screeching loudly

They hover above you, eager to drink your blood,
but the garlic keeps them at bay. Eventually they fly
off in search of some other prey. Leaving the garlic
by your side, you settle down to sleep again, In the
moming you collect your belongings and head
north along the path, Turn to 119,

269

You shout at two humanoids who are tending a
patch of green-topped fungi, They ignore you, con-
tnumg with their work. You grab hold of a fungus
top, breaking a piece off, and start to eat, It tastes
good and adds strength to your body. You gain 4
STAMINA points. There does not seem much sense
in staying here any longer and you walk over to the
steps on the far wall, Turn to 293.

270-272

270

The tunnel ends at a cave entrance. On entering the
cave you see that the roof is no higher than the
tunnel and you are unable to stand up. The cave is
the lair of an intelligent creature, for it contains
small pieces of furniture. There is a wooden box just
over a metre in length at the back of the cave. If you
wish to lift the lid of the box, turn to 229, If you wish
to turn round and return to the junction in the
tunnel, turn to 121.

271

You approach the Gnome with your arm extended
offering to shake his hand, an offer which he accepts
with a doubtful look on his face. You then tell him of
your quest, how you met poor Bigleg and why you
decided to help the dwarfs of Stonebridge. You
ask him if he has any information which might help
you. He replies that he does not care much for
dwarfs but he does have some information which
might be of use to you. However, that information
will cost you either 5 Gold Pieces or an item of
treasure from your backpack. If you wish to pay the
greedy Gnome for his information, turn to 297. If
you cannot afford to, or do not wish to pay him, you
tell him what you think of him and set off west along
the path — turn to 67.

272
That is the last me you are going to do anybody a
favour for some time! Returning to the path you
head north again. Turn to 394.

273-275

273
You take the medallion from the neck of the fallen
Gremlin. It is made of gold and is worth 9 Gold
Pieces. There is nothing else of use or value in the
cave. There is no other exit from the cave and you
must craw] back down the tunnel to the junction —
turn to 296.

i
You notice a knotted vine hanging down to the
ground froma tree on your left. You look up and see
a roughly made tree house amid the branches. If
you want to climb up the vine to the tree house, turn
to 195. If you wish to continue walking north, turn
to 109.

275

You put your hand slowly into the dark hole. It
comes into contact with something cold and hard. It
feels like a metal bowl. As you start to liftit out of the
hole you wince with pain as the sharp teeth of some
small creature suddenly bite into your arm. You pull
yourarm out quickly, hanging on to your discovery,
Blood drips to the ground from your wound. Lose 1
STAMINA point. You see that you have not found a
meta] bow] after all. Itis a bronze helmet and it looks
about your size. Will you:

Try on the helmet? Turn to 179
Discard it and continue
north? Turn to 115

276

276
As you step back to attack the masked rider, the
largest of the four dogs leaps at you and you are
forced to fight it first.

HUNTING DOG

If you defeat the Hunting Dog, you must now fight
the other three dogs and their master in pairs. Both
members of a pair will have a separate attack on you
in each Attack Round, but you must choose which
of the two you will fight. Attack\your nominated
target as in a normal battle. Against the other you
will throw for your Attack Strength in the normal
way, but you will not wound it if your Attack
Strength is greater — you must just count this as
though you have parried its blow, Of course if
its Attack Strength is greater, it will have wounded
you in the normal way.

SKILL 7 STAMINA 6

SKILL STAMINA

First pair: HUNTINGDOG- 6 6
HUNTING DOG 5 6
Second pair: HUNTINGDOG 6 5
MASKED MAN 8 7

If you win, turn to 62.

277 Suddenly, a branch whips out and knocks you to the ground

277-278
277

The path continues east for some distance and then
turns sharply north, narrowing slightly. The trees
seem to crowd in on the path even more than usual
and a tingling down your spine tells you something
is not right. Suddenly a branch from one of the trees
to your right whips out and knocks you to the
ground. Lose 1 STAMINA point. You stagger to your
feet to see that the tree has moved on to the path,
blocking your way. The tree is old, with thick,
cracked bark. You can just make out its hidden eyes
and mouth in the middle of its trunk and realize you
have been attacked by a TREEMAN. You may:

Escape by running back to the
junction Turn to 234
Fight the Treeman Turn to 114

278
The path runs through a narrow gorge between two
hills. You feel vulnerable and draw your sword,
expecting to be ambushed at any moment. Unfortu-
nately, because you are concentrating on watching
the sides of the gorge, you do not see a small patch
of leaves and branches on the path ahead. Your foot
goes right through the thin covering of a bear trap,
and you plunge four metres to the bottom of a rocky
pit. To add to your misfortune, a wooden stake with
a sharp tip points out of the centre of the pit. Test
your Luck. lf you are Lucky, you manage to avoid
landing on the wooden stake, but fall heavily to
the floor. Lose 2 STAMINA points and turn to 319
279-281

if you are still alive: If you are Unlucky, the point
of the stake pierces your leg as you land. Lose 2
STAMINA points for the fall, and a further 2 stam-
INA points for injury to your leg. If you are still alive
turn to 319.

279
Treat all the items in your backpack as single ob-
jects, including each Gold Piece. Make the neces-
sary deductions to your Equipment List and turn to
246.

280
Your walk west is arduous but uneventful. You pass
two branches off the path leading south which you
ignore, Eventually you arrive at a junction Again
ignoring the way south you head north; turn to 306

281
You arrive at a crossroads. South leads back up into
the hills so you decide against that option. If you
wish to head north, turn to 163. If you wish to
continue east, turn to 393. .

282-284

282
The red-topped fungi are being tended by three of
the humanoids. If you want to eat some of the
fungus, turn to 16. If you wish to leave the cavern by
the steps on the far wall, turn to 293.

283
Your wounds heal before your eyes due to the
magical properties of the mud. Add 4 STAMINA
points to your score. Feeling much better you set off
north again along the path; turn to 303.

284
You soon arrive at another junction in the tunnel. If
you wish to head north, turn to 81. If you wish to
head south, turn to 270.

285 You hear soft footsteps and sniffing, followed by a low growl

285-286

285

You have been asleep for about an hour when the
noise of deep growling wakes you up. You stand up
without making a noise and grab your sword. You
wait and listen. There is a full moon in the sky and
the light casts eerie shadows all around. You hear
soft footsteps and sniffing followed by another low
growl, Then a shape which looks like a man steps
out of the shadows to your right; as he gets closer
you see that his chest, arms and face are covered
with thick brown hair and long teeth protrude from
his mouth. He isa WEREWOLF and you must fight
him.

WEREWOLF SKILL 8 STAMINA Q
If you defeat him, turn to 388.

286

As you raise your sword to make the first blow, the
creature starts to metamorphose before your eyes.
He becomes taller and turns green. A large spiny tail
extends from his back, his arms thicken and his
hands grow sharp claws. His face distorts and be-
comes reptilian with red eyes and a wide mouth
housing dozens of razor-sharp teeth. He is not a
Goblin but a SHAPE CHANGER, and you must
fight him.

SHAPE CHANGER SKILL 10 STAMINA 10

If you win, turn to 373.
287-290

287
Outside the cave you stop to take a quick look inside
the leather bag. You find 5 Gold Pieces and a small
brass bell. You put these in your backpack and run
back to the junction in the path and head north.
Turn to 25.

288

Walking down the hill path you see the valley floor
stretching out ahead and beyond that the sinister
wall of trees — Darkwood! On the other side of the
trees lies Stonebridge, your journey’s end, As you
reach the foot of the hills you see many fa

boulders lying around on either side of the path.
You are amazed to see one of the larger ones gently
rocking from side to side like a leaf in a breeze. If
you wish to investigate the boulder, turn to 84.

if you would rather head north into the valley, turn
to 245.

289
The narrow, overgrown path continues to weave its
way through the crowded forest. Strange animal
cries echo through the trees. It’s not long before you
arrive at another junction in the path. If you wish to
continue westwards, turn to 76. If you wish to turn
north, turn to 147.

290
You draw your sword as you enter the cave. The
Ogre throws down the wooden bowl and lifts the

291-292

large stone club from his belt. He grunts and lopes
towards you. Prepare for battle.

OGRE

If you win, turn to 385. You may Escape by running
back to the path to head north. Turn to 358

SKILL 8 STAMINA 12

291
As you walk further northwards across the plain,
the grass gradually becomes shorter and the ground
starts to rise gently, Ahead you hear the roar of
crashing water. Soon you reach the bank of a wide
river split on two levels. To your nght the water ts
calm and slow-moving but in front of you it tumbles
noisily down a great waterfall to a gorge below
where the river narrows and runs quickly west over
rocks and boulders. Steps lead down by the side of
the waterfall to the bottom of the gorge, although it
is difficult to see where they end because of the
spray thrown up. Across the river you see the path
heading north into the distance. A small wooden
boat is tied to a post to your right where the river 1s
calm. Will you:

Walk down the steps to the

base of the waterfall? Turn to 335
Row the wooden boat across
the river? Turn to 145

292
The light from the candle casts eerie shadows
around the room. In the yellow light you see the face

y,
294 The room does not appear to have been lived in for months

293-294

of an old man carved into the stone slab top of the
box. Then you notice the leg of a skeleton protrud-
ing from the shadows in the far corner of the room.
You walk over to the skeleton to inspect it. The
skeleton is small and the skull has sharp, protruding
teeth. It could be the skeleton of either a goblin or
an orc. You walk over to the stone box. The slab on
top looks as if it could be moved. If you wish to try
to lift the stone slab, turn to 95. If you wish to
ignore the slab, return to the path and head north;
turn to 112.

293

The steps are made of stone, chiselled into the wall
of the cavern. They are wet from the slime which
drips down the walls. You see that there are three
alcoves leading off the steps into the cavern wall at
various intervals up to the roof. They are each three
metres high. You climb the steps and peer into
the gloom of the first alcove, where you see a barrel
and a wooden chest. You may:

Look inside the barrel Turn to 215

Try to open the wooden chest Turn to 389

Continue climbing up the steps Turn to 88
294

The hut consists of one room containing a fireplace,
a wooden bed, a table with two chairs, a washing
bowl, a wooden chest and shelves crammed end to
end with birds’ eggs. There is a lot of dust on the
295-297

floor and the room does not appear to have been
lived in for months. Will you:

Rummage through the fireplace? Turn to 106
Open the wooden chest? Turn to 175
Leave the room and carry on

northwards? Turn to 288

295
You smash your head on the side of the well as you
fall. Are you wearing a helmet? If you are, turn to
225. If you are not, turn to 30.

296
Back at the junction you may either craw] south back
to the well (turn to 398) or continue west (turn to
284).

297

As he accepts his payment, the Gnome smiles and
tells you that he saw the skeleton of a Goblin inside a
stone crypt. Perhaps it was the skeleton of one of the
two Goblins who you are looking for, perhaps not.
He says that the crypt is somewhere north in the
forest but exactly where, he’s not sure. You are
annoyed that the Gnome does not have any more
information and set off west again at a fast Pace —
turn to 67.

298-299
298

You have been asleep for about an hour when a
terrifying howl wakes you up with a start. It seems
to be coming from the west some distance away.
You look up to see a full moon in the night sky.
While looking up you suddenly notice a large black
shape moving in the branches above you. You
forget about the howling and leap to your feet,
grabbing your sword at the same time as a GIANT
SPIDER drops to the ground beside you. Its mas-
sive rounded bady moves slowly towards you on
black spiny legs. Not wishing to leave all your
possessions you are forced to fight.

GIANT SPIDER

If you win, turn to 140.

SKILL 7 STAMINA 8

299
You run as fast as you can towards the noise of the
water with a long trail of KILLER BEES right behind
you. Soon you reach the bank of a river and, with
no time to think, you dive straight in. You hold
your breath as long as you can and stay under
water. When you surface again the Killer Bees have
gone. You drag yourself out of the water and start to
dry yourself out. Examining the contents of your
backpack, you are dismayed to discover that all your
Provisions have dissolved in the water. You look
around and see that the path continues north over
the river via a rickety old wooden bridge. If you
wish to cross the river via the bridge, turn to 65. If
300-302

you do not want to trust the bridge and would
rather swim across the river, turn to 75.

300
Daylight appears through the trees in great white
shafts on either side of the path. The forest is
thinning out. Soon the path leads out of the trees on
to a large plain with tall grasses. Beyond, you see
rising ground leading to low hills. A new branch off
the path leads west. Will you:

Continue north?
Go west?

Turn to 138
Turn to 331

301
You search through the pockets of the Hobgoblins
and find 3 Gold Pieces, a tiny brass flute and two
maggot-ridden biscuits. There is also a necklace
made of mouse skulls around one of their necks. [{
you require any of these items, add them to your
Equipment List. Turn to 157.

You twist the bracelet into place on your wrist. A
powerful feeling surges through your arm and
makes you jump. Your arm feels Strong. You now
possess a Bracelet of Skill which will allow you to
add 1 point to all future dice rolls when computing
your own Attack Strength during combat as long as
you wear it. Note this on your Equipment List. You
now climb down the vine and continue northwards
along the path. Turn to 109,

~303-304

303
High in the sky you see a large flying creature. It is
certainly bigger than any bird you have ever seen.
As it comes closer you draw your sword. It
screeches loudly and you can see its long head and
mouth full of sharp teeth. Its green skin is reptilian
and its wings span some five metres. There is no-
where to take cover on the valley foor and you must
fight the PTERODACTYL swooping down on you.

PTERODACTYL STAMINA 8

If you win, turn to 247.

SKILL 7

304
Your leg is going to take a long time to heal. You find

two branches on the floor and strap them to your
broken leg with the leather belt from around your
waist. You sit back and begin your rest. You will
have to consume five portions of your Provisions
before being strong enough to move on. If you do
not have five portions of Provisions left, you will die
of starvation. If you survive, reduce your SKILL
score by 2 points due to your disability. Your eyes
are now well accustomed to the dark and you see
that the tunnel is only one metre high. You must
crawl along on your hands and knees to explore it.
Turn to 69.

305-308
395

You walk round the motionless Wyvern and start to
rummage through its lair and surrounding debris
You find a gauntlet made of plate iron, a throwing
knife, 10 Gold Pieces and a gold ring. You put the
knife and the Gold Pieces in your backpack. Will
you:

Try on the gauntlet? Turn to 374
Try on the gold ring? Turn to 133
Leave these items and head

north along the path? Turn & 360

306
Amidst the trees to the left of the path you see a
small stone building covered with ivy and moss.
If you wish to examine the building, turn to 391. If
you wish to carry on north along the path, turn to
112.

307
The small man wakes up with a start, loses his
balance and falls off the mushroom. He curses as he
lands on the ground but jumps back on to the
mushroom shouting, “Who did that? Who did that?’
He looks at you and frowns. You may either attack
the GNOME (turn to 192) or attempt to start a
conversation with him (turn to 271).

308
On eating some of the mushrooms you feel a great
turmoil inside your body. You think you might be

309-310
turning into a Shape Changer! At last you are re-
lieved to feel the turmoil dying down - and you
have not become a Shape Changer, But you have
eaten Mix-Up Mushrooms — your SKILL score now
becomes your LUCK score and your LUCK score
becomes your SKILL score. Feeling a little odd you
set off north again. Turn to 148.

309
The path cuts through the grass which is about

waist high. Although your visibility is good, you
feel uneasy about any creatures which may be stalk-
ing you on either side. Suddenly, the grass to your
left moves and two wooden tubes appear, pointing
straight at you. They are blowpipes belonging to
two PYGMIES who blow two darts at you. Test your
Luck twice, once for each dart. lf you are Lucky both
times, neither of the darts hits you. Turn to 77. If
you are Unlucky, then either one or two darts will
lodge into your neck. Turn to 197.

310
The Cave Troll stands up and growls loudly. He is
very annoyed at seeing an intruder in his cave and
walks towards you swinging his club. You must
fight him.

CAVE TROLL

If you win, turn to 101.

SKILL 8 STAMINA 9
311-313

311

A search of their clothing and pouches reveals no-
thing of interest apart from 2 Gold Pieces, which
you put in your backpack. You set off north again
along the path and soon notice the trees beginning
to thin out on either side of the path. Eventually the
path leads out of the trees into a ploughed field. You

are out of Darkwood Forest! Turn to 204. 4

312

You step over the still corpse of the Ghoul and look
inside the coffin. You see 25 Gold Pieces but are
overjoyed to see another object that was being used
as the Ghoul’s head rest - a bronze hammer head
with the letter G inscribed in it, You happily put
your findings into your backpack and leave the
crypt to return to the path and head north; turn to
112,

313

There is not much of interest to be found in the cave.
A straw bed, stone jars, a table and a chair are all the
things that are immediately visible, but on a stone
shelf above the bed, a small silver box catches your
eye. If you want to open the silver box, turn to 240. [f
you clecide to ignore the silver box and walk over to
the creature in the cage, turn to 85. If you decide to
leave the cave immediately without the silver box to
continue your journey northwards, turn to 358.

314-316

314

Fhe ground is quite steep now as the path wends its
way up into the hulls. By the time you reach the top
of the hill the: sun is quite hot, All around im the
distance you see the tight green circle of Darkwood
Forest. Mist still hangs in the tall grasses behind you
but ahead you see a valley floor bathed in sunlight.
Allis quiet. As you start down the far side of the hill,
you notice a small wooden hut to the right of the
path with its door slightly open. If you want to enter
the hut, turn to 294. lf you wish to press on north-
wards, turn to 288.

Ba
You open a rough wooden door and walk into the
middle of a dingy hut. Will you:

Turn to 42
Turn to 342

Talk to the old woman?
Draw your sword?

316
Eventually you manage to get back to sleep but have
a restless night. In the morning you collect your
belongings and head north along the path into the
hills, Turn to 198.

317 Tio tall, spindly creatures, clad in tattered cloth

/
317-320

317
You draw your sword and prepare to meet the
owners of the arguing voices. Two tall, spindly
creatures appear clad in tattered cloth, over which
they wear chainmail jackets. They see you and
instantly stop their argument. They are HOBGOB-
LINS, and draw their swords to attack you.

SKILL STAMINA
First HOBGOBLIN 6 6
Second HOBGOBLIN 5 7

If you win, turn to 301. If you wish to Escape during
the battle, you may do so by turning to 41.

318
You jump into the thick undergrowth by the side of
the path. Peering out from behind the leaves you
see the massive legs of some gigantic man stomp
past you along the path. Soon he is gone and you
creep back out on to the path again and head north;
turn to 231.

319
Do you possess Boots of Leaping? If you do, turn to
228. If you do not, turn to 14.

320
You grab hold of the leg and pull down as hard as
you can. A small green-skinned GREMLIN falls
past you with a loud wail into the water. You seize
your opportunity and climb up the ladder while the

321-324

Gremlin is floundering in the water. You climb out
of the well and return to the path; turn to 362.

321
As each Clone Warrior dies, it dissolves into a pool
of coloured liquid on the rocky floor. Not wishing to
stay in this dank and musty alcove any longer, you
leave and climb further up the steps; turn to 107,
a

322

The light from your ring pierces the murky depths
of the tree trunk and the tunnel below. You see a
gold medallion hanging from a silk ribbon within
your reach on a wooden peg inside the trunk. It is
worth 5 Gold Pieces and you put it in your back-
pack, The bottom of the tunnel is some five metres
below. Do you possess a Rope of Climbing? If you
do, turn to 94. If you do not, turn to 380.

323
Walking north you soon arrive at a junction in the
path. You may:

Continue north Turn to 291
Go west Turn to 99
Go east Turn to 102

324
You walk round to the front of the hut and see ¢
large blue vase standing on a small porch. There is
nobody about. You open the door of the hut but
there is nobody inside, The hut is also devoid of any

=

325-327
furniture or objects. You walk outside again and
inspect the blue vase. You look inside but, despite
the sunlight, are unable to see beyond the rim. The
vase is filled with an eerie blackness. You shake it
and hear a rattling sound. You may:

Drop the vase on the ground Turn to 250
Put your hand inside the vase Turn to 161
Ignore the vase and return
to the path and head north Turn to 149
325

You have been asleep for about an hour when the
soft noise of fluttering wings wakes you up. You sit
up and grab your sword, and in the light of the full
moon you see three large shapes flying towards
you. They look like large bats, but as they swoop in
close you see the unmistakable fangs of VAMPIRE
BATS, If you possess any Garlic Buds, turn to 268, If
not, turn to 79.

326
Standing at the river's edge, there does not appear
to be any way of crossing the river other than the
boat. Turn to 145.

327
Inside you see stone stairs leading down from the
door into gloomy depths. You cannot see a thing
down the stairs. If you wish to descend the stairs,
tum to 351. If you wish to leave the building, return
to the path and head north, turn to 122.
328-330
328

Despite being made of hard oak, the chair is surpris-
ingly comfortable. You start to eat but instead o:
feeling stronger you feel weaker. You are sitting in 2
Chair of Life Draining which drains 4 points fror:
YOUT STAMINA Score despite eating a portion of your
Provisions. If you are still alive you manage to climb
slowly out of the chair and stagger northwards
along the path. Turn to 118, ~

329
Daylight appears through the trees on either side of
the path as the forest thins out more. Soon the path
leads out of the trees on to a large plain with tall
grasses. Beyond you see rising ground leading te
low hills. A new branch off the path leads east.
Continuing your quest you may:

Turn to 180
Turn to 252

Keep on walking north
Go east

330
You have been asleep for about an hour when a
terrifying how! wakes you up with a start. You put
new wood on the glowing embers of the fire and
urge it back to life. You notice that there is a ful!
moon in the sky. With your back to the rocks and the
fire in front of you, you stand and wait with sword
drawn. Soon you are aware of being watched and
then you see three pairs of eyes ahead of you
glowing red by the light of the fire. Another howi
pierces the night air, followed by deep growls.

/ 431-333

Slowly the three pairs of eyes advance towards you.
From out of the shadows step three WOLVES ready
to leap on you. They attack you one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
First WOLF 7 7
Second WOLF 8 7
Third WOLF r 9

If you win, turn to 116.

334
You soon arrive at another junction in the path, You

see that the path leading south heads straight back
into the forest and decide against it. Therefore, you
may:

Turn to 124
Turn to 309

Continue west
Go north

332
You soon afrive at another junction in the path,
Looking at Bigleg’s map you decide to head north
again in the direction of Stonebridge, ignoring the
narrow path which continues west. Turn to 103.

333
The crown fits perfectly on your head. The two

Clone Warriors look up and stare in awe at you.
With the crown on your head you hear talking in
your mind and realize that the Clone Warriors are
trying to communicate telepathically with you
They tell you that you are their new master and they
=

334-335

require instructions, They ask you what should be
done with the new crop of red-topped fungi. You
decide that you do not want to be master of the
Clone Wasriors and workers and raise your hands to
your head to remove the crown, With horror ¥
see that the skin on your hands has withered and
darkened dramatically, You try to take the crown off
your head but it will not move. It is evil and has
found a new host in you. Gradually your features
change as you adopt the shape and colour of a Fire
Demon. Your new destiny is determined and your
adventure ends here.

334
Between the hills you see the flat green valley floor

stretching out ahead and, beyond, a sinister wall of
trees — Darkwood Forest! On the other side of the
trees lies Stonebridge, your journey's end. Arriving
on the valley floor, the path ends at a junction, If
you want to head west, turn to 113. If you want to
head east, turn to 51,

335

You walk down the slippery stone steps to the
bottom of the waterfall. You look up and see a
magnificent rainbow reflected in the spray. It is
dark in the gorge and impossible to see through the
wall of water where the steps end. If you wish
to walk through the sheet of water, turn to 181. [f
you wish to climb back up the stone steps, turn to
326,

~ 336-339

336
A pain starts in your stomach and slowly spreads
through your body. If you have a Potion of Anti-
Poison, turn to 21. If you do not possess this item,

turn to 108.

337
At last the trees begin to thin out and shafts of

sunlight beam down through the gaps on either
side of the path. As the path widens you see a large
cave entrance set a few yards back on the right. If
you want to examine the cave, turn to 230. If you
want to continue northwards up the path, turn to

358.

338

The gas is toxic and your eyes start to water. You
hold your breath long enough to find the Nose
Filters and slip them into place inside your nostrils.
You inhale tentatively, but all is well. After a while,
the gas cloud around your face fades away. You put
the silver box into your backpack. If you want to
walk over to the creature in the cage, turn to 85. If
you would rather leave the cave to continue your
journey northwards, turn to 358.

339
You soon reach the bank of a gently flowing river.
You see that the path continues north over the river
via a rickety old wooden bridge. If you wish to cross
the river by the bridge, turn to 65. If you do not want

=

340 A sinall man wearing an iron helmet and a chainmail coat sittin 1g
on a log.

340-342
to trust the bridge and would rather swimyacross the
river holding your backpack out of the water to keep
the contents dry, turn to 75.

340
Walking along the path you see a small man wéar-
ing an iron helmet and a chainmail coat sitting on a
log by the side of the path. He isa DWARF and he
does not look very pleased to see you. Will you:

Try to start a conversation

with him? Turn to 141
Draw your sword to attack him? Turn to 347
Push him off the log and run

east along the path? Turn to 59

341

The pain in your hand becomes almost unbearable
but you still retain feeling in it. At the bottom of the
vase your hand comes into contact with several
objects. You grasp them and pull your hand quickly
out of the vase. You are surprised to see no mark or
sign of injury on your hand. You examine your
treasure and find 5 Gold Pieces, a dragon’s tooth,
and a glass phial containing a Potion of Strength
which will restore 5 STAMINA points whenever you
decide to drink it. Add 1 Luck point and return to
the path to head north; turn to 149.

342
As you draw your sword, the old woman's face

changes from an expression of disinterest to that
343-344

of anger. From a drawer in a nearby table she pulls
out some dead flowers and proceeds to rub a few
petals on her palms, filling the hut with a sweet
smell. As this happens, the room starts to spin
before your eyes. If you possess the Headband
of Concentration, turn to 158. If you do not, turn
to 114.

343

You put the Gold Piece on top of the signpost as
requested by the crow, after which it says, ‘Go
north.’ You ask the crow why it needs Gold Pieces
and it replies that it needs 30 Gold Pieces to pay
Yaztromo to turn it back into a human again. You
bid the crow farewell. If you want to turn north as
advised by the crow, turn to 8. If you would rather
continue eastwards, turn to 239.

344
You wedge your sword between the jaws of the

snare and puil on it like a lever. The robed stranger
adds his strength and finally the snare springs
open, He thanks you over and over again and
explains that he is in the forest looking for his long
lost brother, who he thinks is living the life of a
hermit somewhere in its depths. Together you
scramble back over the roots of the trees to the path.
You ask him to accompany you north but he politely
declines saying that he believes his brother lives to
the south. You shake hands and bid each other
farewell. Turn to 36.

345-348

345
The pain in your stomach intensifies and sweat

breaks out on your forehead. You start to shake.
Lose 4 STAMINA points. If you are stillalive, the pain
gradually fades away. There does not seem to be
much sense in staying here any longer and you walk
over to the steps on the far wall. Turn to 293.

346
Arragon raises his right arm and spreads the fingers
on his hand, saying, ‘Well, stranger, what is your
decision?’ ff you wish to give Arragon what he
requires, turn to 32. If you wish to ignore his threat
and draw your sword, turn to 111.

347
The Dwarf is a hardy old fighter and swings his axe
wiih great skill

DWAREF

lf you win, turn to 363.

SKILL 8 STAMINA 5

348

The men are jumping up and down with their arms
in the air in fits of glee as they see you struggling to
pull the arrow from your shoulder, You gut your
teeth and tug on the arrow; finally it comes free. The
men are both laughing out loud, uncontrollably

They seem to forgetabout you. If you want {po attack
the WILD HILI. MEN, turn to 43. [f you want to
walk past them along the path while they continue
to laugh, turn to 188.

ay

351 The floor ts thick with dust and there are colnvebs everymtere

349-351

349
You arrive back at the crossroads. Ignoring the way

south back to the forest you may go north (turn to
291) or continue east (turn to 102).

350
You reach into your backpack and pull out a small

cloth pouch containing the capsules, There are five
of them, all shiny red, You take one out and throw it 4

towards the advancing Treeman. It lands in front of

him and explodes in a puff of white smoke. A jet of
flame shoots up from out of the ground and forces
the Treeman to back away. You seize your oppor-
tunity and throw the remaining capsules at the
Treeman. Flames burst out all around him and you
run past him while he is trapped. Soon you are well
away from the Treeman and stop running. Heading
north you notice that the trees are at last starting to
thin out — turn to 329.

351
You step carefully down the stone stairs, feeling
your way as you go. Slowly your eyes become
accustomed to the dark and you begin to make out
shapes at the bottom of the stairs, You are standing
in a smail, square room with a low ceiling. The floor
is thick with dust and there are cobwebs every-
where. In the middle of the room there is what
appears to be a large stone box, measuring approx-
imately two metres by one metre. The top of it is a
great stone slab. Along one of the rough stone walls
you find a small alcove with a candle in it. You may
“

352-354

either light the candle (turn to 292) or walk back up
the stairs, return to the path and head north: turn to
112.

352
The Ape Man is very agile around the tree, and you
have difficulty brandishing your sword. You must
deduct 2 from your Attack Strength during each
round of combat,

APE MAN SKILL 8

If you win, turn to 207. You may Escape by jumping
off the platform to the ground five metres below.
Turn to 156,

STAMINA 7

353
When you awake you find that you are lying on the

ground outside the wooden hut, You sit upand look
inside your backpack. All your Provisions have
been stolen! Luckily nothing else is gone and you
still have your sword. You look inside the hut but it
is deserted. If you wish to search the hut for some-
thing useful, turn to 26, If you would rather leave
the hut, return to the path and head north, turn to
220,

354
Quin shakes his head in disbelief. He stands up and
walks silently to a wooden chest at the back of the
hut, He lifts the lid and pulls out a small glass phial.
He hands it to you and walks back to the table where
he shumps in his chair looking thoroughly dejected

355-358
The dust in the phial sparkles in the light and you
put it into your backpack and leave the hut. Outside
you walk back to the junction in the path, Turn to

349.

355
You arrive at another junction in the path. Ignoring

the way south, you continue east — turn to 3yo.

356 -
Stuffed inside the Forest Giant's clothing you find a
brass lantern with a green wick. There is no liquid
inside it to burn. Perhaps it is a magic lantern. You
may:

Rub the lantern and make a wish Turn to 34
Try to light the wick Turn to 395
Throw the lamp away and head
north Turn to 231
357

As you walk west along the twisting path you pass
another branch leading south to the valley. You
ignore it and press on west. Eventually the path
ends ata junction, Again, ignoring the way south te
the valley, you turn north — turn to 306.

358
Walking along the path, you do not notice a rope
noose hidden beneath some fallen leaves ahead of
you. Your foot catches in the noose and suddenly
you are hauled into the air by the rope which is tied

- Law

es —,

360 The young woman steps forward and tells you that you are
irespuissiny.

359-360
toa sprung tree. Ina second you are hanging upside
down, suspended by your trapped foot. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, your sword remains in its
scabbard, and you are able to use it to cut yourself
down from the man trap. Turn to qo. If you are
Unlucky, your sword slips from its scabbard and
drops to the ground, leaving you dangling helpless-
ly. Turn to 218.

\
359
To the left of the path you see a stone well with a
bucket and turning handle. If you wish to take a
closer look at the well, turn to 172. If you would
rather continue your walk east, turn to 281.

360

Walking along the narrow path you suddenly hear
the sharp crack of a twig breaking and the whisper-
ing of low voices. You draw your sword and wait
anxiously with your back to a large oak tree. Then
from behind the trees opposite you step four men
and a woman dressed in green tunics. Each looks
menacing and they stand with swords and axes in
their hands. The young woman steps forward and
tells you that you are trespassing on their territory
and you must pay a levy of five objects from your
backpack or face the consequences. If you wish to
give them what they want, turn to 279. If you would
rather spit on the ground in reply and fight them,
turn to 104.

LO eee eee

361-364
361

From not too far ahead comes the sharp noise of
barking dogs drawing nearer. Suddenly a brown fox
with eyes wide open in fear dashes past you run-
ning east. The frantic yelping of the dogs gets
louder. If you wish to face the oncoming pack of
dogs, turn to 396. If you would rather hide in the tall
grasses off the path and let them run past in pursuit
of the fox, turn to 86.

362
Which way are you heading? If you wish to continue
east, turn to 281. If you wish to continue west, turn
to 238.

363
You rummage through the Dwarf’s backpack and
find a corked bottle containing a clear liquid. If you
wish to drink the contents of the bottle, turn to 68. If
you would rather leave the bottle and set off east
again along the path, turn to 59.

364
You nod your head at the masked rider and bid
him good-day. He nods back but says nothing.
You tell him of your quest to help the dwarfs of

365-366

Stonebridge; he then jumps down from his mount,
throws back his cape and extends his right arm to
shake your hand. You see that each of his fingers is
adorned by a large gold ring. Will you:

Attack him for his gold?
Carry on the conversation?

Turn to 276
Turn to 194

365

The gas is toxic and your eyes start to water. You
hold your breath long enough to find the Nose
Filters and slip them into place inside your nostrils.
You inhale tentatively, but all is well. After a while,
the gas cloud around your face fadés away. You put
the silver box into your backpack and leave the cave
to continue your quest northwards. Turn to 358.

366

You bid the Centaur good-day, to which he replies
in a similar manner. It is pleasing to meet somebody
who is not attacking you on sight! You ask the
Centaur if he has any information which might lead
you to your goal but he does not know anything. He
says that he does not wander much these days as he
is getting old. He just wants to own a little gold for
his old age. He offers to carry you across the river for
3 Gold Pieces. Will you:

Accept his offer? Turn to 127
Refuse politely and wade into
the river? Turn to 178
367-369

367
There is a soft popping sound as the head of the
fungus splits open followed by the hiss of escaping
gas. You become enveloped by a cloud of poisonous
gas. Do you possess Nose Filters? If you do, turn to
60. If you do not, turn to 222.

368
There is nothing more you can do in this room so
you decide to walk back up the stairs and return to
the path to head north, turn to 112.

The valley floor is green and pleasant and you
wonder why such a tranquil place should be the
home of so many loathsome creatures. Walking
along the path, you see in the distance the portly
shape of a balding man dressed in long brown robes
heading in your direction. As he gets closer you see
that he is a friar. Will you:

Start a conversation with him? Turn to 191
Walk past him with a nod of
the head? Turn to 390

370-372
370

You frantically grope about in total darkness. Slow-
ly your vision retums and you stand up again.
With your own sight fully restored you set off north
again along the path. However, while you were
on the ground an item fell out of your backpack
Make the deduction to your Equipment List and
turn to 231.

“

371
There are many hand-made clay figures of human

hands in different positions covering every avail-
able surface area. They are all painted with bright
red glaze. In a copper vase you find 3 Gold Pieces,
which you put in your backpack. There is nothing
else of use or value to you in the cave. You leave by
crawling back the way you came to the junction,
taking a clay hand with you if you wish; turn to 93.

372

You bend down and try to lift the chest but it is very
heavy. Roll two dice. If the number rolled is less
than or equal to your SKILL score, you succeed —
turn to 48. If the number rolled is greater than your
SKILL, you injure your back — lose 1 STAMINA point.
You may try to lift the chest as many times as you
wish by repeating the above procedure. If you suc-
ceed, turn to 48. If you do not manage to lift the
chest, you decide not to risk any more injury to your
back and leave the room exasperated. Continue
north and turn to 288.
373375

373
You slump on to the log exhausted after your long

battle. Sadly, the black rod was just part of the
Shape Changer’s illusion and it exists no more.
However, you notice some violet mushrooms grow-
ing behind the log. They are unfamiliar to you but
look tasty. If you wish to eat some of the
mushrooms, turn to 308. If you would rather con-
tinue north, turn to 148

374
You shp the gauntlet on to your hand and take hold

of your sword. Slicing the air with it you feel more
than usually skilled with your weapon. You now
possess a Gauntlet of Weapon Skill which will allow

. you to add 1 point to all future dice rolls when

computing your own Attack Strength during com-
bat so long as you wear it, Note this on your
Equipment List. If you wish to try on the gold ring,
turn to 133. If you would rather ignore the gold ring
(or have aiready tried it on) you must head north
again along the path — turn to 360

375
A junction appears in the path. If you wish to

continue north, turn to 150. If you wish to head
west, turn to 236.

376-377

376
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, he does not wake up
— turn to 74. If you are Unlucky, you kick a small
stone which rattles across the cave floor and
awakens the Cave Troll — turn to 310.

377
You quickly catch up with the two brown-skinned

Pygmies. They are wearing grass skirts and as they
stop and turn to face you, you notice that each has a
small bone through his nose. They draw their
daggers and both attack you at once, Both will have
a separate attack on you in each Attack Round, but
you must choose which of the two you will fight.
Attack your chosen Pygmy as a normal battle.
Against the other you will throw for your Attack
Strength in the normal way, but you will not wound
it if your Attack Strength is the greater; you must
just count this as though you have fought off its
blow. Of course if its Attack Strength is greater, it
has wounded you in the normal way.

SKILL STAMINA
PYGMY A 5 5
PYGMY B 5 6

If you win, turn to 205. If you wish to Escape, run
back to the path and turn north. Turn to g2.

—.

378-381
378

To the left of the path you see a small man with a
long grey beard sitting cross-legged on top ofa huge
mushroom. He is wearing a bright red jacket and
cap, and his trousers are black and end athis knees
He is asleep and is snoring Joudly. You may either
give him a gentle push to wake fim up (turn to 407)
or walk quietly past him to continue your journey

west (turn to 67). \

379
You may either try to charge the door down (turn to

73) or return to the path and head north (turn to
112).

380
If you wish to risk jumping down the hollow tree
trunk to the bottom of the tunnel below, turn to 237.
if you wish to return to the path to head north again,
turn to 144.

381
You have failed in your quest to help the dwarfs.
Being unable to face Gillibran, their king, you de-
cide to head east and find a place to rest after your
perilous adventure. Perhaps you may try again? If
you do, you must walk around Darkwood Forest
378 A small man with a long grey beard is sitting cross-legged on top back to Yaztromo’s tower to purchase more of his
ofa large mushroom, magical items — turn to 98

—— ll

384 A huge man with muscles like knotted tron is staked to the
ground

382-384
382
Going west, the path soon brings you to another
junction. You decide to ignore the way south and
head north. Turn to 97.

383
You search through the bags and clothes of the Orcs
and find 2 Gold Pieces and a small wooden whistle.
Add these to your Equipment List if you wish. You
may also eat the spit-roast rabbit and add 2 points to
your STAMINA. Suitably refreshed you return to the
path and head north, Turn to 254.

384

Ahead in the grasses yoy hear alow moan. You look
up to see the vultures patiently waiting overhead. A
few steps further and you see the ugly sight of a
huge man with muscles like knotted iron staked out
to the ground. His arms and legs are tied to four
large wooden pegs driven deep into the ground.
The man is naked except for a small loin cloth and
his skin is badly blistered from the sun. His face and
chest show the bloodied signs of cruel torture, His
captors will not have gained the information they
sought from him because he is a BARBARIAN! If
you wish to cut him free, turn to 128. If you want to
leave him in his agony and return to the path to
head north, turn to 394.

385-387

385
As the Ogre slumps to the ground, the creature in
the cage jumps around even more frantically than
before. Do you:

Take a closer look at the

creature in the cage? Turn to 168
Search through thé contents

of the cave? Turn to 313
Leave the cave immediately and

continue northwards? Turn to 358

386
You settle down to sleep again but have a restless
night. In the morning you wake early. You collect
your belongings and set off north along the path.
Turn to 119.

387
On the ground in front of you lies a single Gold
Piece. You pick it up and toss it in the air with a flick
of your thumb. Then you put itin your pocket, Add
1 LUCK point and turn to 340.

388-390
388
If the Werewolf wounded you during combat, turn
to 155. If you did not receive any wounds, add 1
LUCK point and turn to 316.

389

You raise your sword above your head and smash it
down on the wooden chest. It splinters into tiny
pieces and amongst the broken bits of wood you
find 8 Gold Pieces. Add 1 Luck point. If you haven't
done so already, you may look in the barrel (turn to
215) or you may leave the alcove to climb further up
the steps (turn to 88).

399
In the distance you see the dark brown wall of frees
looming up before you. The path leads directly into
Darkwood Forest and soon starts to twist and turn
between tangled roots and bushes. The path even-
tually splits. lf you wish to continue north, turn to
190. If you wish to head west, turn to 280.

391-393

391

The building measures only three metres by three
metres and has no windows. The door is made of
stone and looks very solid. There is no handle and
there does not appear that there is another way to
enter the building. Then you notice a tiny keyhole in
the stone door. Do you possess a silver key? If you
do, turn to 200. If not, turn to 379

392
As you crouch in the bushes off the path, the voices
get louder. Then two pairs of spindly legs in tattered
cloth shuffle past you quickly, kicking up dirt and
dust. The voices soon fade away into the distance.
You step out on to the path again and press on
northwards. Turn to 157.

393
Leading along the quiet valley floor, the path comes
to an end at a junction. The way south leads back
into the hills so you decide against it and head
north; turn to 369.

394-395

394
Gradually the grass around you becomes shorter as

the ground gently starts to rise. Ahead you can hear
the sound of flowing water. Soon you reach the
bank of a slow-flowing river. The river is very
shallow and stepping stones cross it to the far bank
where the path continues north into the distance.
Will you:

Cross the river by the

stepping stones? Turn to 66
Wade through the shallow water
across the river? Turn to 186

395
Instead of the wick igniting, a blinding flash comes

from the lantern, so bright that you are unable to
see. You stumble and fall to the ground. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, you land without injury, turn
to 154. If you are Unlucky, your head smashes on a
log — lose 3 STAMINA points. If you are still alive,
turn to 370.

396 A iisked rider on a white stallion yallops towards you in a doud
of dust —

396-398
396

You draw your sword and stand to face the pack of
dogs. They come into view in a cloud of dust;
galloping behind them is a masked Tider wearing a
long flowing cloak and riding a white stallion, He
blows a horn and the pack of dogs comes to a
sudden halt in front of you, There are four of them
and you see that they are hunting dogs. The stallion
stands motionless behind them with steam blowing
from its nostrils in two long jets, The masked man
looks at you without speaking. Will you:

Turn to 364
Turn to 96

Start a conversation with him?
Attack the dog nearest to you?

roa

397
You continue your walk along the valley floor,

passing a junction in the path which leads south to
the hills. You soon arrive at another junction. Again
one of the branches Jeads south to the hills. If you
wish to head north, turn to 163. If you wish to carry
on east, turn to 393.

398
You reach the end of the tunnel and are about to

step out on to the ladder on_the wall of the well
when you hear footsteps above you. Somebody is
coming down the ladder, If you wish to reach out in
an attempt to grab hold of the first leg that comes
into view, turn to 320. If you would rather wait for
the visitor to enter the tunnel, turn to 193.

399-490

399

You charge at Yaztromo but only reach the first stair
wher he lifts his right arm and nonchalantly mum-
bles a few words. Time seems to stand still amid
bright flashes, and your body feels like a bubbling
liquid inside. When the turmail subsides, you know
something terrible has happened. The stone stair
feels cold on your body and you realize the prob-
Jems of a life as a frog! Yaztromo bends down and
picks you up, saying with a booming voice:

‘Well, foolish warrior, enjoy your new life!’ With
that, he Jets out a deafening laugh and nearly drops
you. Then he shuffles to the oak door and, opening
it, throws you into the tall grasses outside, Your
adventure ends here

400
You walk up to the old dwarfs and ask them to

take you to Gillibran. They eye you suspiciously but
agree to do so, commenting on your wounds and
torn clothing. ‘You got those in Darkwood Forest I
presume,’ says one of the dwarfs, pointing at va-
rious gashes on your body with his long clay pipe.
‘Some people never learn. Adventurers are all the
same. I can’t see the sense in it myself.’

You walk through the village behind the two
dwarfs and are aware of many dwarfish folk
watching you. They begin to follow you and a
procession builds up behind. There are lots of mut-

terings and whispers amongst the crowd of
dwarfs and expectant looks show on their faces.
Soon you arrive at the foot of stone steps leading up
to a stone building. Outside the building on an
ormate wooden throne sits a small old man with a
long beard. He is wearing a crown but looks miser-
able and holds his head in his hands. Yourun up the
steps, taking the hammer head and handle from
your backpack. At the sight of them the old dwarf’s
eyes light up and he jumps to his feet. Taking them
eagerly from you he starts to shout ‘My hammer!
My hammer! We are saved. Now, my people, we are
ready to fight the trolls.’

The whole crowd erupts into cheering, waving their
axes and swords in the air. You tell Gillibran of
Bigleg’s misfortune and why you decided to con-
tinue his quest, and of all the monsters you have
encountered on your way. Gillibran listens and
frowns at the news of Bigleg his faithful servant,
Then he opens a drawer in the base of the throne
and reaches into it, pulling out a small silver box and
a golden winged helmet, and hands them to you.
The helmet is worth hundreds of Gold Pieces and
you proudly place it on your head. A great roar of
approval comes from the crowd. You open the silver
box and find dozens of jewels and gems. You put
these in your backpack and wave to the happy
dwarfs of Stonebridge. Your quest is over and you
are now wealthy beyond your wildest dreams.

ee

ABOUT THE AUTHOR

lan Livingstone is an internationally well-known figure in
the fantasy games world. Together with Steve Jackson (co-
author of The Warlock of Firetop Mountain) he founded Games
Workshop Ltd, which was set up to promote and distribute
tole-playing games like Dungeons & Dragons, RuneQuest and
Traveller From its tiny beginnings in Shepherd’s Bush,
London, Games Workshop has grown rapidly and is now the
largest UK company specializing in these games

fan Livingstone is also editor of White Divarf, a magazine
devoted entirely to science fiction and fantasy games, creator
of the highly successful Judee Dredd game, author of Dicing
wit Dragons, and co-organizer of Games Day, Britain’s
largest indoor games convention.

TWO MORE FIGHTING FANTASY GAMEBOOKS

THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP MOUNTAIN
by Steve Jackson and Ian Lruingstone

Deep in the caverns beneath the threatening crags of Firetop
Mountain, a powerful Warlock lives, guarding a mass of
treasure — or so the rumour goes. Several adventurers like
yourself have set off for Firetop Mountain, but none has
returned. Do you dare to follow them? Who knows what
terrors you may find.

THE CITADEL OF CHAOS
by Steve Jackson

You are the star pupil of the Grand Wizard of Yore and your
mission is to venture into the dark, doom-jaden tower of the
demi-sorcerer, Balthus Dire. Risking death at every turn of
the passage, will you be able to overcome the six-headed
Hydra, the peril of the Rhino-man and the deadly and
mysterious Ganjees? With only your sword and your magic-
al skills to aid you, your task is truly awesome!

WHAT IS DUNGEONS AND DRAGONS?
by John Butterfield} Phiip Parker and David Honigmann

A comprehensive guide to one of the most astounding
role-playing games ever. Dungeons and Dragons creates a
fantastic and elaborate fantasy world, peopled by trolls and
goblins, giants and vampires, where magic is real and dan-
ger stalks the player in many forms.

What is Dungeons and Dragons? has been written especially
for Penguin by three Eton schoolboys, who have used their
extensive knowledge and expertise to produce a clear, con-
cise and readable introduction to every aspect of the vast and
complex world of Dungeons and Dragons

A Penguin Book

