oa DeateAND »
as Zanbar bone

- > mm pager > p
on Voges hold

: S P 7-—= ese ae es —- Py of aly Sek vate
tie Pp ‘osperous OWT. oO} Silv Ttonr oO
Tansom an adventurer, ana the

mercnar

their hour of need

VP + ad
Your mission takes you along dark
ih 1stince St perc Ar e) rThieve ry cy
Lt ~ : 5 , : ° ~ soxh! .
bonds ana creatures of the night lie in

+ ‘ ; 5 oy: en war4 : ; sli, Ay :
Walt tc rap the unwary traveller ANG
hevond ires the mac oc ‘come adventtire.
peyon ESL TLOSL iCal SOLS aAGCVeIture
or them ati—tne tower stronenoia o
lwo dice a pencil! and < 2 eraser are all you

need decide

‘oO make your journey

which route to take, which

fight and which dangers to:

TIGHTING FANTASY GAMEBOOKS

lLihe Warlock of Firetop NV iountain

d ne Citagel of Unaos
’ _* as 4 , >
3 ne Forest of Voom

Starship lraveller

bh Deathtrap Wungeon
/ island of the Lizard King

Cover illustration

ISBN 0-14-031645-0

uk

90000
{recommended}
Sit 9 "780140'3 16452

—

CAN.

_

ae

‘
\
t

»

oe
™ ye) |
Po a

x¥o
ht oJ

re

-—
(

aK
. Ty
=

iI™w

4

eT

1

» °

JAN GIVINGSTONE’S: /
PUFFIN BOOKS

CITY OF THIEVES

Terror stalks the night as Zanbar Bone and his bloodthirsty
Moon Dogs hold the prosperous town of Silverton to ransom,
You are an adventurer, a sword for hire, and the merchants ol
Silverton turn to you in their hour ot need.

Your task takes you to the dark, twisting streets of Port Blacksa na
in search of vital information without which the ultimate deteat
is Impossible. Thieves, yagabonds and creatures of the night
lie in wait to trap the unwary traveller and often your only
choice is to kill or be killed! Then beyond the port lies the most
fearsome adventure of them all ~ the tower stronghold of the
Prince of Night himself, Za nbar Bone!

lan Livingstone, co-founder of the highly successful Games
Workshop and editor of Witte Dicarf, has created a thrilling,
sword-and-sorcery adventure, complete with an elaborate
combat system and an adventure sheet to record your gars
and losses. All you need is two dice, a pencil and an eraser.

FIGHTING FANTASY IN PUFFIN

tf THE WAKLOCK OF FIRETOP MOUNTAIN
2, THE CITADEL OF CHAOS
3: THE FOREST OF DOOM
4. STARSHIP TRAVELLER
5S. City OF THIEVES
b, DEATHTRAP DUNGEON
7. [ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING
§. SCORPION SWAMP
9, CAVERNS OF THE SNOW WITCH
10. HOUSE OF HELL
1]. TALISMAN OF DEATH
12. SPACE ASSASSIN
13. FREEWAY FIGHTER

lan Livingstone

CITY OF
THIEVES

Ilustrated by lain MeCaig

Puffin Books
Puffin Books, Penguin Books Lid, Harmondsworth, Middlevx, England
Viking Penguits Inc., 90 West 2ard Street, New York: New York 10010, US_A.
Penguin Books Australia Lid. Ringwood, Victoria, Australia
Pesyguin Books Canada Lid, 2501 Jot Sirect, Markhanst, Ontarro, Canada LOR IBA
Penguin Hooks (NZ) Ltd. 182-19) Watrau Read, Auckland 10, Neve Zealand

First published 1953
Repetnted 1583 (five times), 1964 fsix times), 1985

Copyright @) lan Livingstone, 1983
Mustrations copyright ©) lain McCraig, 1933
All rights reserved

Printed and bound an Great Britain by
Cox & Wyman Led; Reading
Set in Linotran Palatine by
Rowland Photutypesctting Lid
Bury St Edenunds, Suffolk

For Lucy

Except in the United States of America
this book is sold sabject to the condition
that it shall not. by way of trade o¢ otherwing,
be lent. re-sold, hired out, or dthenvise crculoted
without the publisher's prior consent in any form of
binding, or cover other than that in wisicl it is
published and without 4 similar condition
including this canditiun being imposed
on the subsequent purchaser

CONTENTS

HOW TO FIGHT THE CREATURES OF
THE CITY OF THIEVES
7
EQUIPMENT AND POTIONS
16
HINTS ON PLAY
17
ADVENTURE SHEET
18
BACKGROUND
20
CITY OF THIEVES
HOW TO FIGHT THE CREATURES
OF THE CITY OF THIEVES

Before embarking on your adventure, you must first
determine your own strengths and weaknesses.
You have in your possession a sword and a back-
pack containing provisions (food and drink) for the
trip. You have been preparing for your quest by
training yourself in swordplay and exercising vigor-
ously to build up your stamina.

To see how effective your preparations have been,
you must use the dice to determine your initial
SKILL and STAMINA Scores, On pages 18-19 there is
an Adventure Sheet which you may use to record the
details of an adventure. On it you will find boxes for
recording your 5KILL and STAMINA scores.

You are advised to either record your scores on the
Adventure Sheet in pencil, or make photocopies of
the page to use in future adventures.

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter this
total in the SKILL box on the Adventure Sheet.

Roll both dice. Add 12 to the number rolled and
enter this total in the STAMINA box,

There is also a Luck box, Roll one die, add 6 to this
number and enter this total in the Luck box.

For reasons that will be explained below, SKILL,
STAMINA and LUCK scores change constantly dur-
ing an adventure. You must keep an accurate record
of these scores and for this reason you are aclvised
either to write small in the boxes or to keep an eraser
handy, But never rub out your Inifial scores.
Although you may be awarded additional $xiL.,
STAMINA and LUCK points, these totals may never
exceed your Ivtitial scores.

Your SKILL score reflects your swordsmanship and
general fighting expertise; the higher the better.
Your STAMINA score reflects your general constitu-
tion, your wil] to survive, your determination and
overall fitness; the higher your stamina score, the
longer you will be able to survive. Your LUCK score
indicates how naturally lucky a person you are.
Luck = and magic — are facts of life in the fantasy
kingdom you are about to explore.

Battles

You will often come across pages in the book which
instruct you to fight a creature of some sort. An
option to flee may be given, but if not — or if you
choose to attack the creature anyway — you must
resolve the battle as described below,

First record the creature’s SKILL and STAMINA
scores in the first vacant Monster Encounter Box on
your Adventure Sheet. The scores for each creature
are given in the book each time you have an encoun-
ter,

The sequence of combat is then:

1. Roll both dice once for the creature. Add its SKILL
score. This total is the creature's Attack Strength,

2. Roll both dice once for yourself, Add the number
rolled to your current skILt score, This total is
your Attack Strength,

9
3. Lf your Attack Strength is higher than that of the
creature, you have wounded it, Proceed to step
4. lf the creature’s Attack Strength is higher than
yours, it has wounded you. Proceed to step 5. If
both Attack Strength totals are the same, you
have avoided each other's blows — start the next
Attack Round from step 1 above.

4. You have wounded the creature, so subtract 2
points from its STAMINA score. You may use
your Luck here to do additional damage (see
over).

- The creature has wounded you, so subtract 2
points from your own STAMINA Score. Again you
may use LUCK at this stage (see over),

6, Make the appropriate adjustments to either the
creature’s or your OWN STAMINA scores (and
your LUCK score if you used LUCK — see over).

7. Begin the next Attack Round by returning to
your current SKILL score and repeating steps 1.
This sequence continues until the sTAMINA Score
of either you or the creature you are fighting has
been reduced to zero (death).

“Jt

10

Escaping

On some pages you may be given the option of
running away from a battle should things be going
badly for you. However, if you do run away, the
creature automatically gets in one wound on you
(subtract 2 STAMINA points) as you flee. Such is the
price of cowardice. Note that you may use LUCK on
this wound in the normal way (see below). You may
only Escape if that option is specifically given to you
on the page.

Fighting More Than One Creature

If you come across more than one creature in a
particular encounter, the instructions on that page
will tell you how to handle the battle. Sometimes
you will treat them as a single monster; sometimes
you will fight each one in turn.

tt
Luck

At various times during your adventure, either in
battles or when you come across situations in which
you could either be lucky or unlucky (details of
these are given on the pages themselves), you may
callon your LUCK to make the outcome more favour-
able. But beware! Using LUcKisa risky business and
if you are unlucky, the results could be disastrous.

The procedure for using your LUCK is as follows: roll
two dice. If the number rolled is equal to or less than
your current LUCK score, you have been lucky and
the result will go in your favour. If the number
rolled is higher than your current LUCK score, you
have been unlucky and you will be penalized.

This procedure is known as Testing your Luck, Each
time you Test your Luck, you must subtract one point
from your current LUCK score. Thus you will soon
realize that the more you rely on your Luck, the
more risky this will become.

Listing Luck in Battles

On certain pages of the book you will be told to Test
your Luck and will be told the consequences of your
being lucky or unlucky. However, in battles, you
always have the option of using your LUCK either to
inflict a more serious wound ona creature you have
just wounded, or to minimize the effects of a wound
the creature has just inflicted on you.

ao

If you have just wounded the creature, you may Test
your Luck as described above. If you are Lucky, you
have inflicted a severe wound and may subtract an
extra 2 points from the creature’s STAMINA score.
However, if you are Unlucky, the wound was a
mere graze and you must restore 1 point to the
creature's STAMINA (i.e. instead of scoring the nor-
mal 2 points of damage, you have now scored only

1).

If the creature has just wounded you, you may Tes?
your Luck to try to minimize the wound. If you are
Lucky, you have managed to avoid the full damage
of the blow. Restore 1 point of STAMINA (i.e. instead
of doing 2 points of damage it has done only 1). If
you are Unlucky, you have taken a more serious
blow. Subtract 1 extra STAMINA point.

Remember that you must subtract 2 point from your
own LUCK score each time you Test yorr Luck,

13
Restoring Skill, Stamina and Luck
Skill

Your SKILL score will not change much during your
adventure. Occasionally, a page may give instruc-
tions to increase or decrease your SKILL score. A
Magic Weapon may increase your SKILL, but re-
member that only one weapon can be used ata time!
You cannot claim 2 SKILL bonuses for carrying two
Magic Swords. Your SKILL score can never exceed
its Initial value. Drinking the Potion of Skill (see
later) will restore your SKULL to its Initial level at any
time.

Stamina and Provisions

Your STAMINA score will change a lot during your
adventure as you fight monsters and undertake
arduous tasks. As you near your goal, your STAMI-
Na level may be dangerously low and battles may be
particularly risky, so be careful!

14

Your backpack contains enough Provisions for ten
meals. You may rest and eat at any time except
when engaged in a Battle. Eating a meal restores 4
STAMINA points. When you eat a meal, add 4 points
to your STAMINA score and deduct 1 point from
vour Provisions. A separate Provisions Remaining
box is provided on the Adventure Sheet for recording
details of Provisions. Remember that you have a
long way to go, So use your Provisions wisely!

Remember also that your STAMINA Score may never
exceed its /uitial value. Drinking the Potion of
Strength (see later) will restore your STAMINA to its
initial level at any time.

98 he 7 a-sta urs hile et >

Luck

Additions to your LUCK score are awarded through
the adventure when you have been particularly
lucky. Details are given on the pages of the book.
Remember that, as with skiLL and STAMINA, your
LUCK score may never exceed its Initial value. Drink-
ing the Potion of Fortune {see later) will restore your
LUCK to its Initial level at any time, and increase your
Initial LUCK by 1 point,

15
EQUIPMENT AND POTIONS

You will start your adventure with a bare minimum
of equipment, but you may find or buy other items
during your travels. You are armed with a sword
and are dressed in leather armour. You have a
backpack to hold your Provisions and any treasures
you may come across.

In addition, you may take one bottle of a magic
potion which will aid you on your quest. You may
choose to take a bottle of any of the following:

A Potion of Skill - restores sKILL points

A Potion of Strength — restores STAMINA points
A Potion of Fortune — restores LUCK points and
adds 2 to Initial LucK

These potions may be taken at any time during your
adventure (except when engaged in a Battle), Tak-
ing a measure of potion will restore SKILL, STAMINA
Or LUCK scores to their Initia? level (and the Potion of
Fortune will add 1 point to your Initia! LucK score
before Luck is restored).

Each bottle of potion contains enough for one mea-
sure, i.e. the characteristic may be restored once
during an adventure, Make a note on your Adven-
ture Sheet when you have used up a potion.

Remember also that you may only choose one of the
three potions to take on your trip, so choose wisely!

HINTS ON PLAY

There is one true way through the City of Thieves
and it will take you several attempts to find it. Make
notes and draw a map as you explore — this map will
be invaluable in future adventures and enable you
to progress rapidly through to unexplored sections.

Not all areas contain treasure; some merely contain
traps and creatures which you will no doubt fall foul
of. You may make wrong turnings during your
quest and while you may indeed progress through
to your ultimate destination, it is by no means
certain that you will find what you are searching for.

It will be realized that entries make no sense if read
in numerical order, It is essential that you read only
the entries you are instructed to read. Reading other
entries will only cause confusion and may lessen the
excitement during play.

The one true way involves a minimum of risk and
any player, no matter how weak on initial dice rolls,
should be able to get through fairly easily.

May the luck of the gods go with you on the adven-
ture ahead!
— - emt —/7— f= = (— ¢
ADVENTURE SHEET. MONSTER ENCOUNTER BOXES
. P = “ial Witp Pe WILD PG
SKILL» as| | STAMINA | LUCK | Bee SuN= SkIN= by
treétind 1 initial DL) | Snitiat H P| Stamina Siamina= 2 Stamina=4 ‘
Skill= 1 pH \s Stantinaw 22 Luck= Wi | oes AS =12v 17? is 716
IS he MEM Ad=ly 12 '
4S=|by Ui
oo TERE -HERST:
EQUIPMENT COLDEY# AV) FE | sxilles | Skilf= 6
List Vel v a Siemina =f Stenrinf Stamna=6 70
ee lis¥ 13 2Oy IF Ua ah |
A) AE ie ie rij2 ,
PAC KIN JEWELS | Hy V3
Li late 2 Heuaz | .
Qt Petia LBL IY WET ICTs pia S AEE
Ei ‘ae | Skll= yp Skill= 6 a
ae a) Kon ies pete Sha ; 1 Shanoeetin } peed fr 5 Staminaae 2 cy)
LANTERN ee emi ,i5 x2 192/)3 $v215
CLOVE DE Garey, 1h 43 IS¥ 2h eVV4 2
ACAI UCMKLE F Oars : 4 “16 i
AIRROR PROVISIONS . iy 23
cha . ia REMAINING noes ee eee:
if ear ioe b | Staminaet) Siamina-Z } | Staina=
iy mene hae sani et | es
SHEILP fev tg ryv23 3
2 Nags Harm ' 5 ¥ 28 3
is PLALK PEARLS 1G vig
ia SKELETON EY ' it
ie RING HE THE EAE ETS
5 ’ br
£ f
ro fie LS ee dans - sje)

BACKGROUND

You are an adventurer in a world of monsters and
magic, living by quickness of wit and skill of sword.
You earn your gold as a hired warrior, usually in the
employ of rich nobles and barons on missions too
dangerous or difficult for their own men. Slaying
monsters and fearsome beasts in pursuit of some
fabled treasure comes as second nature to you.
Being an experienced and highly trained swords-
man, you allow nothing to stand in your way on
your quests. Your success on a mission is always
assured and your reputation has spread throughout
the lands. Whenever you enter a village or town, the
news of your arrival spreads through the citizens
like wildfire, as few of them have ever met: a dragon-
slayer before.

One evening, after a long walk through the out-
lands, you arrive at Silverton, which lies at the
crossroads of the main trading routes in these parts.
Great wooden wagons hauled by teams of oxen are
often seen rumbling slowly through the town laden
with herbs, spices, silks, metalware and exotic
foods from far-off lands.

Over the years Silverton has prospered as a result of
the rich merchants and traders stopping there en
route to distant markets. Its wealth is quite apparent,
with ornate buildings and richly dressed people

aplenty. But as you enter the town gates, something
strikes you as being not quite right. The peaple look
nervous and on edye. Then you notice that all the
windows on the buildings have great iron grills
bolted over them and the doors have been strength-
ened too. Although you prefer your own company
to that of others, you decide to stay in Silverton for
the night to find out who or what is troubling the
people,

As you walk down the main street, a single note
from a bell rings out from a tall tower ahead. Then a
man shouts, almost desperately, ‘Nightfall! Night-
fall! Everybody indoors!’ You see people scurrying
around with anxious faces, and looking surprised
when they see you. Across the street you sce a
tavern with the words ‘The Old Toad’ painted on its
signboard. As you enter the favern, a whisper runs
through the locals as they recognize you - some put
down their mugs and stare. You are somewhat
surprised that none come over to you to hear tales of
adventure. Walking over to the counter you ask the
ald innkeeper for a room and a hot tub, but he
ignores you and shuffles over to the great oak door,
pushing six large iron bolts into place. Only then
does he turn to you and say quietly, ‘That will be
five copper pieces for the room and one more for the
tub, in advance if you please.’ You reach into a
leather pouch on your belt and toss the coins on the
counter. He hands you an iron key, but at that very
moment there is a loud knocking at the door fol-
lowed by a voice shouting, ‘Open up! Open up! This

21
is Owen Carralif.’ The old innkeeper shuffles over
to the oak door again and slides open the bolts.
Then a fat and balding man dressed in rich scarlet
robes bursts into the tavern, looking around franti-
cally. He sees you and walks quickly in your direc-
tion, huffing and puffing. He is a man certainly not
used to haste — you notice great beads of sweat on
his forehead in the pale candlelight of the room. As
he nears you, he calls out urgently, ‘Stranger, [must
speak with you. Please sit down. Itis important that
I speak with you,’

When he turns to the innkeeper to snap his fingers
for food and drink, you can see that he is obviously
of some standing in the town, but his face is full of
anguish and sorrow. Being curious, you decide to
hear what the man has to say. He pulls out a chair
for you at a table, bidding you to sit dawn and the
innkeeper bustles in with a tray laden with hot
broth, roast goose and mead. The man in the scarlet
robes sits opposite in silence, watching you as you
feast as though examining you for some purpose of
his own. Finally, as you push your plate away, the
man Jeans forward and says, in a low but anxious
voice, ‘Stranger, | know of you and seek your aid.
My name is Owen Carralif and I am the mayor of
Silverton, We are in great trouble and danger. We
are living under a curse and it is l who must rid us of
it. Ten days ago two messengers of evil rode into
town on huge black stallions. Stallions with fiery red
eyes! It was impossible to see the faces of the riders
for they wore long black cloaks with hoods pulled

22

over their faces. Their voices were cold arid each
word spoken ended with an unnerving hiss, They
asked for me by name and when | came to greet
them, they wanted to take my beloved daughter
Mirelle to stay with their master, Zanbar Bone! No
doubt you know that he is the Night Prince. Of
course | refused their demand and without another
word they turned and rode slowly out of the town,
heads down and shoulders hunched. I knew then
that beneath the cloaks were hidden the skeletal and
soulless bodies of Spirit Stalkers. Zanbar Bone al-
ways uses them as his messengers as they will
complete their mission or die in the attempt - and
they do not die easily. Only a silver arrow through
the heart will release those evil beings from their
eternal twilight existence. Who knows what it
would take to kill Zanbar Bone! Anyway, that same
night after the Spirit Stalkers left, our troubles be-
gan. The Night Prince was angry and determined to
harm us. Six Moon Dogs came, each stronger than
four men, each with razor-sharp fangs. They
stalked through the town, entering homes through
open windows, and killing the poor people inside.

In the morming we counted twenty-three dead, So
we barred our windows and bolted our doors, yet
each night the Moan Dogs return and we are unable
to sleep for fear that they might find a way into our
homes, Some people are now talking of sending
Mirelle to Zanbar Bone. Those whimpering traitors,
| should have them flogged! But what good would
that do? There is but one hope and that rests with

23
you, stranger. There is a man called Nicodemus
who, for reasons I'll never understand, lives in Port
Blacksand. The place is commonly called the City of
Thieves as it is the home of every pirate, brigand,
assassin, thief and evil-doer for hundreds of miles
around. I think he lives there just to get some peace
from the likes of us. He is a wise old wizard and is
unlikely to come to much harm even in Port Black-
sand, for his magical powers are great. He alone is
capable of defeating Zanbar Bone, He used to be a
friend of mine many years ago. We need him and |
beg you to bring him to us — none here dares enter
Port Blacksand. You will be well rewarded if you
help us, stranger. Take these 30 Gold Pieces for your
journey, and take this sword to use and keep.’

As Owen Carralif rises, he pulls back his scarlet
robe, revealing the finest broadsword you have ever
seen. He hands it to you and, touching the edge of
the blade, you are surprised to see a droplet of blood
fall from your finger. You then examine the marvel-
lously ornate gilded serpents twining round the
hilt. You have never wanted anything so badly in
your life before, You stand up and hold out your
right arm to Owen. He shakes it eagerly, saying,
‘You must set off at the first light of dawn — the
Moon Dogs will be gone by then. I shall be forced to
stay the night here also, so let's drink to our destiny
and may the gods be with us.’

For the next hour Owen talks about your coming
journey, explaining in detail how to reach Port
Blacksand. Later you gather up your backpack and

24

furs and climb the wooden stairs to your room. You
sleep uneasily despite the security afforded by your
new broadsword as you are more than once woken
by the sniffing, scratching and howling of the ream-
ing Moon Dogs outside. By dawn, you are already
awake and dressed, and determined to reach Port
Blacksand quickly to find this man Nicodemus. As
you leave the tavern, a black cat scurries past your
feet and you almost trip; a bad omen perhaps?

NOW TURN OVER
‘The walk to Port Blacksand takes you west some
fifty miles across plains and over hills; fortunately.
without any harmful encounters. Eventually you
reach the coast and see the high city wall surround-
ing Port Blacksand and the cluster of buildings
projecting into the sealikean ugly black mark. Ships
lie anchored in the harbour and smoke rises gently
from chimneys. It looks peaceful enough and itis.
only when the wind changes that you smell the
decay in the breeze to remind you of the evil nature
of this notorious place. Following the dusty road
north along the coast to the city gates, you begin to
notice fearful warnings — skulls on wooden spikes,
starving men in iron cages suspended from the city
wall and black flags everywhere. As you approach
the main gate a chill runs down your spine and you
instinctively grip the hilt of your broadsword for
reassurance, At the gate you are confronted bya tall
guard wearing a black chainmail coat and iron hel-
met, He steps forward, barring the way with his
pike, saying, ‘Who would enter Port Blacksand.
Uninvited? State the nature of your business or go
back the way you came.’ Will you

Tell him you wish to be

taken to Nicodemus? Turn to 202,
Tell him you wish to sell
some stolen booty? Turn to33

Attack him quickly with your
sword? Turn to49
24

2
You remove the bracelet from your wrist and toss it
at the oncoming monster. Itlands on its armour-like
shell and sticks toit like glue. You then watch as the
bracelet starts to burn its way through the shell into
the body of the Giant Centipede, Smoke rises from
the neat round hole and as the bracelet burns deeper
you can see from the frantic movements of the
Centipede that it is in its death throes. Finally it is
still and you manage to squeeze yourself between
its body and the roof of the tunnel. You walk
further down the tunnel, svhich ends at an iron grill
through which the sewage runs. If you wish to
remove the grill, turn to 377. If you wish to walk
back to the entrance hole, turn to 174.

3
The man stops playing and tells you that he can
bring you good fortune, For the sum of 3 Gold
Pieces he will sing you a song that will bring you
luck. If you wish to pay the musician, turn to 37. If
you do not believe him, you may walk to the next
stall (turn to 398).

You hear a bell ring on the other side of the doorand
a few minutes later the door is opened by a thin,
pale-skinned man with dark, hollow eyes, who is
wearing a servant's uniform. Ina cold, hissing voice
he says, “Yes?’ If you wish to tell him you are a lost
traveller, turn to 339. If you wish to attack him with
your sword, furn to 35-

5-7

Drawing your sword you leap over the counter to
attack the MAN-ORC, who swiftly grabs his hand-
axe. You soon realize that the Man-Orc has used his
weapon before.

MAN-ORC

[f vou win, turn to 371.

SKILL§& STAMINA §

6

Her tone, becomes unpleasant and she tells you to
get out of her house because there are certainly no
rags in it, nor any other kind of jumble for that
matter, If you wish to obey her, leave the house and
head further north along Stable Street, turn to 333. If
you wish to go through the curtains and see who is
being so rude to you, turn to 88.

7

You tiptoe quietly out of the room and close the
door. In the corridor you apen the pouch and find
six black pearls. Add 2 Luck points. If you have not
already done so, you may open the other door (turn
to 232), or leave the ship to continue your search of
Port Blacksand by walking north up Harbour Street
(turn to 78).

$-—11

8
The creature pins the golden brooch to your leather
tunic and you pay the price demanded. You have
bought a lucky charm — add 2 Luck points to your
total. Pleased with your purchase you leave the
house and head north (turn to 334).

You step back from the vile body of Zanbar Bone,
waiting for him to decay, However, you have
chosen wrongly! He pulls the arrow from his chest
and rubs the compound from his eyes. He sees you
and laughs. You are mesmerized by his power and
are unable to move. He walks up to you and touches
your face with his skeletal fingers. Your life is drain-
ing; quickly away and you will soon begin your
undead existence as a servant of Zanbar Bone.

10
The GUARD is really annoyed and charges at you
with his pike.

CITY GUARD SKILL 8 STAMINA 7

[f you win and the fight lasts six Attack Rounds or
less, turn to 212. If the fight lasts longer than six
Attack Rounds, turn to 130.

11
The Trolls see what you are doing and run towards
the tree, You are forced to leave your shield behind.
Lose 4 SKILL point. After climbing quickly up the
tree you realize that you must jump a distance of

12-13

two metres between the branch and the top of the
wall. If you are wearing a chainmail coat you will
nave to take it off in order to jump Safely across to
the wall (lose 2 SKILL points). Below, you see the
two Trolls running round the tree waving their
swords at you. There is no alternative but to jump
‘turn to 358).

12
After a few minutes you hear footsteps coming
down the corridor, The door opens and a man walks
into the room wearing nothing buta towel round his
fat stomach. You watch as he drops the towel and
lowers himself gently into the tub with a loud sigh.
if you wish to surprise him by drawing your sword
and uttering a loud ‘Ahem!’, turn to 176. If
you would rather creep out of the room back
into the corridor while he submerges himself, turn

to 383.

13
Inspecting the scorpion you see that it is a brooch.
You decide to pin it to your leather tunic. The
brooch has magic healing properties; after any bat-
tle, the brooch will immediately restore 1 STAMINA
point to your total.

What will you do next? You may, if you have not
already done so, pick up the golden scorpion (turn
to 273). Lf you would rather ignore it, you may either
climb the stairs (turn to 80), or leave the house and
head north (turn to 334).

14-18

44
As soon as you pluck one of the flowers you hear the
noise of rustling leaves. Three of the animal-shaped
nedges have uprooted themselves and are closing in
on you. Do you havea Ring of Fire? If you have, turn
to 237. lf not, turn to 191,

15
You leap over the snakes and run for the door. Test
your Luck, If you are Lucky, you reach the door
safely (turn to 75). lf you are Unlucky, one of the
snakes strikes out and bites you on the leg (turn to
295).

16
The bag holds 12 Gold Pieces. Add 1 Luck point.
You leave the house quickly before the owner dis-
covers you are not who you say you are. You then
walk further north along Stable Street (turn to 333),

17
Walking along the narrow street you see a man
wearing tattered rags sitting in the gutter, His head
rests on his hands and he looks thoroughly miser-
able. If you wish to stop to talk to him, turn to 331. lf
vou would rather continue walking east, turn to
161.

18
You take aim carefully and throw the knife at the
leading vagabond. Roll two dice, If the total is the
same or less than your SKILL score, the knife sinks
ag-at 2233

cleep into the vagabond’ chest, stopping him dead | comfortable, made-up bed. If you wish to lock the
in his tracks (tuen to 202). Ifthe total is greater than | door and go to sleep for the night, turn to 288. Ifyou
your SKILL seore, the Knife Mies past its target and | wish to explore the tower further, tum 077

‘you must fightall three vagabonds with your sword

(turn to 235).

D
Continue picking the lock, tur to 340. If you would |

Asyousit down atthe table the GOBLINS stop their
guarelling and stare at you coldly. You see hatred
in their brown warty faces, Suddenly they stand up
and draw their swords. You must fight them one at
atime.

SKILL STAMINA
Fi | First GOBLIN 4 5
| Second GOBLIN = 5 3

‘The pirate's pockets contain nothing apart from a
piece of stale bread. You leave him to start a search | If you win, turn to 198,
ff the wooden boxes and barrels on the ship's deck

(turn to 89). 23
‘The man geabs a wooden chub from behind a chair

and prepares to fight you. He is strong but not a

Looking up, you see that the staircase goes all the
‘way up to the top of the tower. You stap off at the
first floor and walk along the landing to a door. The
door opens into a large room which contains a If you win, turn to 146.

ILVERSMITH SILL 4 STAMINA 8
24-25

24

There is another shop on the left side of the street.
An iron grill over the window prevents you seeing
what kind of shop it is, You try the handle on the
door and it turns. If you want to enter the shop, turn
to 336. If you wish to continue west, without look-
ing into the shop, turn to 196,

25
You soon realize you are in a stable when you see a
large, bare-chested man wearing a grubby white
apron busy at work at an open fire. He takes a
red-hot iron bar from the fire with his gloved
hand and starts to hammer it into the shape of a
horseshoe on his anvil. Sweat pours from his brow
as he toils with the hammer, Will you:

Make conversation with the

blacksmith? Turn to 169
Attack him with your sword? Turn to 323
Leave him to his labours and

continue north? Turn to.115

You sheathe your sword and look round at the
circle of spectators. Having witnessed your excel-
lent swordsmanship each goes quietly back to his
table, not wishing to anger you any further. The
innkeeper apologizes for his unfriendliness and
invites you to sit at the bar and enjoy a drink at his
expense. You ask him if he knows the whereabouts
of Nicodemus. The innkeeper frowns and looks at
you inquiringly. Then he says, ‘I don't know what
you want from that wily old wizard. He keeps
himself to himself and lives alone in a small hut
under Singing Bridge. Keep walking north along
Market Street, through the market-place, and you'll
come toa bridge that crosses Catfish River and leads
to the old part of the city and the harbour. Nico-
demus won't talk to you and he knows enough
magic to keep even the toughest away from his
door,’ You tell the innkeeper not to be so discour-
teous to strangers next time, and leave the tavern to

head north (turn to 296).

24-25

24
There is another shop on the left side of the street.
An iron grill over the window prevents you seeing

what kind of shop it is. You try the handle on the!

Goor and it turns. If you want to enter the shop, turn
to 336. If you wish to continue west, without look-
ing mito the shop, turn to 196,

25

You soon realize you are in a stable when you see a
large, bare-chested man wearing a grubby white
epron busy at work at an open fire. He takes a
red-hot iron bar from the fire with his gloved
sand and starts to hammer it into the shape of a
horseshoe on his anvil. Sweat pours from his brow
as he toils with the hammer. Will you:

Make conversation with the

blacksmith? Turn to 169
Attack him with your sword? Turn to 323
Leave him to his Jabours and

continue north? Turn to 145

_—

You sheathe your sword and look round at the
circle of spectators. Having witnessed your excel-
lent swordsmanship each goes quietly back to his
table, not wishing to anger you any further. The
innkeeper apologizes for his unfriendliness and
invites you to sit at the bar and enjoy a drink at his
expense. You ask him if he knows the whereabouts
of Nicodemus. The innkeeper frowns and looks at
you inquiringly, Then he says, ‘I don't know what
you want from that wily old wizard. He keeps
himself to himself and lives alone in a small hut
under Singing Bridge. Keep walking north along
Market Street, through the market-place, and you'll
come toa bridge that crosses Catfish River and leads
to the old part of the city and the harbour. Nico-
demus won't talk to you and he knows enough
magic to keep even the toughest away from his
door.” You tell the innkeeper not to be so discour-
teous to strangers next time, and leave the tavern to
head north (turn to 296),

le tee

27-29

27
oe

You enter a small candlelit room with no windows.
ltis empty apart froma table and two chairs. A man
wearing black robes and a skullcap ts standing ina
corner. He smiles and asks you to sit down at the
table. He sits opposite you and, after placing six
white pills on top of six skulls on the table, looks up
to you and says, ‘One of the pills before you is
deadly poisonous, the others are harmless. Swallow
one of your choice. If you live, | will give you 20
Gold Pieces. If you die, I keep all your possessions.’
If you wish to play this deadly game, turn to 223. If
you would rather leave this room and walk back up
the alley to Candle Street, turn to 165

28
While you were fighting the Giant Rats, you
thought you saw someone or something skulking
in the shadows ahead. If you wish to continue
further north along the tunnel, turn to 265. If you
would rather turn round and walk back to the
entrance hole, turn to 104

29
You squat down on the mattress and consider what
to do next. Lf you wish to feign illness and throw the
iron pail against the bars of the cell to attract the
guards’ attention, turn to 143. If you wish to inspect
the cell closely in the hope of finding a secret escape
route, turn to 230.

39-32

30

Tower Street soon ends at a junction, where it meets
Stable Street running north and south. You decide
to go north (turn to 76).

31

Ahead you see a wooden bridge stretching over a
dirty river. Various bits of rubbish are floating down
to the sea on its black surface, and you squirm at the
sight of a human hand passing by. The bridge
supports and columns reach high above and you
see skulls, both human and non-human, tied to
them. The wind makes an ecrie noise as it whistles
through the bridge structures, reminding you of
tortured souls crying out for help. Almost hidden
from view is a small flight of steps going down
underneath the bridge from where you are stand-
ing. A one-legged man carrying a sack is crossing
the bridge from the northern bank, If you wish to
climb down the steps, turn to 329. If you wish to
wait to talk to the man, turn to 364.

Betore you reach the door, the Serpent Queen ex-
tends her head and bites you on the neck, causing
the loss of 4 STAMINA points and 1 SKILL point. If
vou are still alive, you draw your sword to attack the
Serpent Queen (turn to 249).

—————————— _

33735

You tell the guard that you wish to sell some silver
chalices that you stole from a tavern in Silverton and
that you will pay him a Gold Piece for his advice as
to where to go for the best price. The guard looks at
you suspiciously, saying, ‘Let me look at these
chalices in your backpack before | admit you.’ Will
you:

Tell him that you know the
chalices are cursed and should

only be examined by a mage? Turn to 381
Try to run past the guard into the

main street? Turn to 291
Attack him quickly with your

sword? Turn to 49

34
The carriage thunders by and you see its driver
urging on the four horses as though his life de-
pended onit, As the noise of the carriage fades into
the distance, you step out on to the street and
continue west (turn to 171).

35
You push the man through the doorway and run
him through with your sword. Much to your sur-
prise he is unaffected by the wound. Slowly he
advances towards you, trying to touch your skin
with his skeletal, decayed hands. He grabs yourarm
but you manage to kick him away. He has left a
mark on your arm which looks like a burn, but it

36-37

emits a revolting smell of putrid flesh. Lose 2 staM-
INA points. Then you realize that before you stands
2 Spirit Stalker, one of the faithful servants of Zan-
bar Bone. As he advances towards you again with
his arms outstretched, you try to remember what
you must do, Will you:

Fire the silver arrow at him? Turn to 189
Reflect his stare in your mirror

(if you have one}? Turn to 305
Fire your Ring of Ice at him

(if you have one)? Turn to 382

36
The man leans on the counter and tells you that a
Ring of Invisibility costs 10 Gold Pieces, a Ring of
Fire costs 8 Gold Pieces, and a Ring of Ice costs 7
Gold Pieces. If you wish to buy one of the rings,
make the necessary deduction on your Adventure
Sheet. Bidding the man farewell, you slip the ring on
your finger and leave the shop to head west (turn to

196).

The man strums his lyre and sings a merry song all
about you and your good fortune — he does have the
power to make you lucky. Add 2 Luck points and
walk on to the next stall (turn to 398).

38-40

38
One of the men reaches into a pocket inside his
green jacket and produces a thin silver bracelet. He
zives it to you and you see the outline of an insect
etched into its surface. The man explains that the
insect bracelet has the power to kill even giant
insects, After placing the bracelet on your wrist you
leave the tavern and head north again (turn to 296).

39
You open your backpack and pretend to search for

the silver item. The Serpent Queen starts to fidget
and you can see her becoming increasingly impa-
tient. You cannot think of a good plan and start to
panic. If you wish to run to the front door, turn to
32. If you wish to draw your sword to attack the
Serpent Queen, turn to 249.

From the top of the wall you see that it encircles a
group of brown creatures playing some kind of
game with a wooden stick and a small leather ball.
One of the creatures has just hit the ball and is
running towards a creature from the other team
who has his foot on a cloth bag. You realize that
these creatures are Bays playing their favourite
game, Bays’ Ball. Lf you wish to ask to join in their
game, turn to 168, If you would rather climb back
down the wall, return to the junction and head west
down Harbour Street, turn to 91.

41-42

41
The two guards holding you look at each other and
then at the other guard for a decision, He nods at
them and they release their stip on you. As you pay
him the 15 Gold Pieces he gives you a piercing
look, saying, ‘If Lord Azzur finds out that you are in
the city without a pass, you are as good as dead. I'd
get one if I were you. And as for Nicodemus, find
him yourself.” Repressing an urge to draw your
sword you turn and walk into the city (turn to 74).

42
You tell the man that you cannot pay the price he is
asking. He shrugs his shoulders and says, ‘Well, do
you have any food?’ You open your backpack and
he takes all your remaining Provisions. He then
starts to cast the silver arrow and you wait patiently
as he makes it. Finally he presents you with it and
assures you that it will be accurate in flight. You
thank him for his trouble and leave his shop. Out
side you set off east once again (turn to 100).

43744

You cry out in pain as the goblet changes into a

Surning coal in your hand. You are badly burnt.

Lose 2 SKILL and 2 LucK points. If you have not
done so already you may lift goblet A (turn to 175) or
zoblet B (turn to 209). If you are not interested in the
soblets, you may either walk through the archway
‘turn to 107) or climb the stairs (turn to 69).

44
Standing ina line across the street are three tall men

each armed witha spiked club. You notice that each
has a red star tattooed on his forehead. They are
vagabonds intent on robbing you. If you have a
Throwing Knife you may be able to cut one down
defore they reach you (turn to 18). Ifyou do not have
2 Throwing Knife you will have to fight all three
with your sword (turn to 225).

45-47

45
The glass ball shatters on impact with the cobbled

street. On contact with the air the smoke turns a_

golden colour and begins to take the shape of a
winged helmet. The helmet solidifies and rests on
the street, sparkling in the sunlight. It is the most
magnificent helmet you have ever seen, If you wish
to place it on your head, turn to 376. If you would
rather leave it alone and set off east again, turn to
161.

The blacksmith takes your money and walks over to
some bales of hay in the corner. He lifts one up and
underneath it you see the chainmail coat. He turns

to you and says, ‘You have to hide everything in this

place. You can’t trust anybody.’ The coat fits per-
fectly and its workmanship is excellent, Add 2 $k1L1.
points. You leave the stables with your new armour
and continue north (turn to 115).

47
The lightning bolt slams into your chest and knocks
you to the floor. Lose 3 sTAMINA points. If you are
still alive you see the fat man roaring with laughter.
Perhaps he is off his guard? You decide to throw

48-49

your sword at him from your prone position. Roll
«wo dice. If the number rolled is less than or equal to
your SKILL score, the sword pierces the chest of the
man and kills him (turn to 313). If the number is
creater than your SKILL score, the sword flies past
tim and clatters on to the marble floor (turn to 81).

48
There is an iron ladder secured to the rim of a hole,
descending into a tunnel below, It is dark, and a
very unpleasant smell rises up from below. If you
wish to climb down the ladder, turn to 321. If you
wish to replace the manhole cover and continue
east, turn to 205.

49

As you draw your sword the guard leaps to his right
and attempts to ring a small bell on the wall of the
suardhouse. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, he
misses the bell, curses, and turns to fight you with
his pike (turn to 10). If you are Unlucky, he manages
to grab the bell and rings it loudly before turning to
Sight you with his pike (turn to 314).

50-51

50
The stairs lead down into the ship's cargo hold. It is
empty, Opposite you a corridor leads from the hold
to two closed doors. You walk along the corridor
and listen at the doors. From the door on your left
you hear loud snoring. From the door on your night
you hear nothing. If you wish to open the door on
the left, turn to 271. If you wish to open the door on
the right, turn to 232.

51

You walk over to the old man and help him to his
feet. Heis very grateful and offers to buy youa drink
ata nearby tavern. If you wish to go fora drink, turn
to 325. If you would rather continue your quest,
turn to 348.

52753

52

Behind the next stall is a young man selling small
weapons and items of equipment. The prices of his
wares are chalked up ona slate:

Throwing Knife 4 Gold Pieces
Climbing Rope 2 Gold Pieces
Butcher's Meat Hook 2 Gold Pieces
fron Spike i Gold Piece

Lantern 3 Gold Pieces

If you wish to buy some or all of the items, make the
necessary adjustments on your Adventure Sheet. You
then walk north (turn to 200).

The silk curtains in front of the archway are pulled
aside and a strange creature steps into the room, It
has a snake's head, which sits oddly atop the body
of a young woman wearing a lavish gown, Its
mouth opens and a forked tongue darts in and out
as the Serpent Queen says, ‘Don’t try to fool me, |
know that scoundrel Borryman never sends flow-
ers. What silver gift have you brought me?’ If you
have a silver item in your backpack that you wish to
give to the Serpent Queen, turn to 328. If you have
not gota silver item that you wish to give away, turn

to 39.

*
|
— —
err ee ry
— oe _—_ .
eS esi Tote ek eS te seen . » he eo
54
You search the guardhouse and find 2 Gold Pieces
and a merchant's pass permitting the holder to trade
in Port Blacksand. Taking your findings with you,
you creep outside, The guard at the main gate does
notsee you and you walk into the city (turn to 74).

55
You dip the petals of the flower in the spilled blood
of the dead dogs. On contact with blood the petals
sparkle and make a popping noise. On the floor are
10 Gold Pieces. You pick up the gold and walk back
up the alleyway to Harbour Street, where you tum

left (turn to 180).

56-57

56

There are over twenty guards coming to get youand
itis useless to put up a fight. They drag you off toa
room at the bottom of the tower and chain you toa
wall. To your horror you see the two Trolls enter the
room. They take it in turns to beat you before
passing a sentence of five years’ solitary confine-
ment in a dungeon cell. A few minutes later a
hunchbacked jailer arrives carrying a bull-hide
whip. He fixes a ball and chain to your leg before
leading you downstairs to begin your jail sentence.
You have failed in your mission.

57

The Dwarf jumps up off his stool, his face full of
hatred. He calls out two names loudly and two huge
black dogs immediately appear from under a table
with long fangs protruding from their slavering
mouths. Wraggins points a finger at you, shouting
‘Kill the friend of Nicodemus!’ and the dogs leap at
you, barking wildly. You must fight them for your
ife, one ata time.

SKILL STAMINA
First WOLF DOG 7 7
Second WOLF DOG 7 5

if you win, turn to 360,

58-59

58
As the carriage thunders by, the driver lashes out at
you with his whip. Lose 1 STAMINA point, You
curse the driver of the carriage as it races out of
view, rubbing your neck where the whip has raised
a weal, You set off west again (turn to 271).

59
The Hag laughs as she watches you in the throes of

your nightmare. Then trom out of her clothing she
pulls a dagger with a long shimmering blade. You
are helpless and unable to stop her plunging the
dagger into your chest. Tonight her stew-pot will

contain more than rat meat, Your adventure ends

here.

60-61

60

At the top of the stairs you reach a landing with two
closed doors. As you are deciding which door to
enter, you hear a noise from downstairs — somebody
is entering the front door. Then you hear a man’s
voice saying, ‘Off you fly, my little beauty, find the
imtruder.’ If you wish to draw your sword in readi-
ness, turn to 349. If you would rather make a break
for it, you may jump out of the window at the head
of the landing into the street below (turn to 192).

61

The silk curtains in front of the archway are pulled
aside and a strange creature steps into the room. It
has a snake’s head, which sits oddly atop the body
of a young woman wearing a lavish gown, You feel
uncomfortable and are undecided whether or not to
draw your sword, Then the snake’s mouth opens
and a forked tongue darts in and out as the Serpent
Queen asks to see the flowers sent to her by Lord
Azzur. If you havea bunch of flowers, turn to 172, lf
you do not have a bunch of flowers, turn to 350.

62-63

62

The old wooden doors open into a dingy, smoke-
filled room. There are eight round tables in the
centre of the room with some of the most mean and
shitty-looking rogues you have ever seen sitting at
them. At the back of the tavern is a long wooden bar
covered with bottles and mugs. Behind the bar
stands the innkeeper wearing a grubby apron. He is
guite old, bald and has an ugly black scar running
down his right cheek. Not all the customers are
human. Will you:

Walk to the bar to talk to the

innkeeper? Turn to 136
Sit down ata table with three

Dwarfs who are playing a dice

game? Turn to 173
sit down ata table with twa
Goblins who are arguing? Turn to 22

sit down with three men who are
sticking daggers quickly between

their fingers on the table? Turn to 190
Leave the tavern and walk north? Turn to 296
63

The Elf leads you into a room lit by purple candles,
which give a strange glow, You stand and stare
dlankly at the candles and drift off into a world of
vivid dreams, While you are in this trance, the Elf
takes two items and 5 Gold Pieces from your back-
pack (if you have them). When you awake, you

64-65

have no recollection of the theft and leave the shop
thanking the Elf for showing you his beautiful can-
dies. Outside you head east again (turn to 280).

64
You hear growls and loud barking coming from
inside the kennel, and suddenly an enormous black
wolf rushes out of the kennel straight at you. A long
chain is attached to its collar and this may stop it
from reaching you. Test your Lick, If you are Lucky,
the chain pulls taut and the wolf jerks toa halt (turn
to 353). If you are Unlucky, the chain remains slack
and the wolf leaps up and bites your arm. Lose 1
STAMINA point and turn to 309.

65

On the next floor there are two doors adjacent to one
another on the landing. One is painted white and
the other black. Suddenly a voice calls out from
nowhere, saying, ‘Oh foolish adventurer, why do
you even consider it a remote possibility that you
can defeat me, the almighty Zanbar Bone. | am
following your every move, but you do not know
where I am. Ha! Ha! Hal’ Will you:

Open the white door?
Open the black door?
Carry on up the stairs?

Turn to 319
Turn to 96
Turn to 197

66-68

66
The Dwarf smiles and boasts that he can make a key
to open any lock in Port Blacksand, He says that his
special keys are priced at 10 Gold Pieces each. If you
want to buy a key, make the necessary deduction on
your Adventure Skeet. Whether or not you buy a key
you leave the shop and continue west (turn to 300),

The woman’s voice sounds excited as she calls
through the curtains, ‘Oh, | wonder which kind
dear has sent me flowers? Can you tell me who they
are from?’ If you wish to tell her a name, turn to 195.
if you wish to tell her that you do not know who
they are from, turn to 79-

68
The soup tastes absolutely disgusting. If you wish to
sivallow it, turn to 380. If you wish to spitit out, turn
to 262.

69-71
69

Just as the guards are about to lead you away, you
try with all your might to pull your arms from their
grip- Roll two dice. If the number rolled is less than
or equal to your SKILL score, you succeed — turn to
355- If the number rolled is greater than your SKILL,
you fail to release yourself, and are led away, strug-
gling violently (turn to 151),

70
As you reach the chest it disappears before your
eyes. You hear laughter behind you and suddenly
see in the mirror the hideous reflection of a black-
robed skeleton with green, translucent eyes, wear-
ing a golden crown on its skull. You spin round but
it’s too late. Zanbar Bone’s skeletal fingers are
touching your flesh and are draining your life away-
You are now one of his undead servants.

71
The Ogre’s room is full of clutter and discarded bits
and pieces. It does not appear to have been tidied
for years. Rummaging through the jumble, you find
a polished wooden box with a hand made of white
shell inlaid on the lid. The box is locked and you
cannot find the key to open it, If you wish to smash
it open with your sword, turn to 324. If you wish to
leave the house to continue north, without trying to
open the box, turn to 282.

72-73

72
As you bend down to help the injured boy, he
suddenly rolls overand you see the flashing blade of
2 dagger before your eyes. The boy is in fact a
GOBLIN thief and you must fight him for your life.

GOBLIN

if you win, turn to 208.

SKILL 5 STAMINA 4

73
You draw your sword and stand ready to fight the

Trolls. They seem pleased that you are going to give
them a chance to practise their beloved sport of
killing humans, and advance towards you swinging
their battle-axes. Sourbelly snarls and says, ‘Stand
back, Fatnose — let me deal with this dog alone.’
Fight them one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
SOURBELLY 10 11
FATNOSE 9 10

if you win, turn to 110. You may Escape after killing
Sourbelly by throwing your shield at Fatnose and
running off west along Mill Street. Lose 1 SKILL
point and turn to 239.

74-77

74
Through the main gates you see that the rubbish-

filled streets of the portare narrow and cobbled, Old
and decrepit buildings line them closely, with their
upper storeys overhanging menacingly. You may:

Turn to 95
Turn to 116
Turn to 17

Go west down Key Street
Head north along Market Street
Go east down Clock Street

75
Outside the rain has stopped and you set off north
again (turn to 31),

To your left you see a large wooden barn set back
from the houses, Two horses are tied to a post
outside the barn, and smoke rises from a crooked
chimney on top of its low flat roof. If you wish to
walk through the barn doors, turn to 25. If you
would rather continue north, turn to 115,

77
You walk quietly back to the staircase and climb up
to the second floor, Again there is a door at the end
of the landing. If you wish to open the door, turn to
292. If you wish to climb up to the third floor, turn to
310.

78-79

The street runs north along the quayside for a few
hundred metres before arriving ata junction. lf you
wish to continue north up Harbour Street, turn to
256. If you wish to walk east along Clog Street, turn
t 216,

The silk curtains in front of the archway are sudden-
ly pulled aside and a strange creature steps into the
room, It has a snake’s head, which sits oddly atop
the body of a young woman wearing a lavish gown.
Its mouth opens and a forked tongue darts in and
out as the SERPENT QUEEN challenges you,
saying, ‘Do not lie to me, scoundrel, No doubt you
are an assassin come here to kill me. But you shall
die instead!’ Suddenly the Serpent Queen stretches
out her head and bites you on the neck. Lose 4
STAMINA points and 1 skit point. If you are still
alive, you draw your sword to defend yourself,

SERPENT QUEEN

if you win, turn to 295.

SKILL STAMINA 7
.
;

80-82

80

The stairs lead into a small room, again painted red-
Sitting at a table is a strange creature with a long
snout and deep red, scaly skin. From its jaw pro-
trude rows of sharp teeth and a Jong pink tongue
darts quickly in and out between them. The creature
looks up and stares at you. Are you wearing a
scorpion brooch? If you are, turn to 392. If not, turn
to 215.

81
The man laughs even louder and mocks your at-
tempt to kill him. You decide to leap up and make a
dash for the front door, picking up your sword as
vou run. The man sees what you are doing and fires
another lightning bolt at you. Test your Luck. LE you
are Lucky, the lightning bolt misses you, and you
manage to open the door and run north up the street
(turn to 304). If you are Unlucky, the lightning bolt
thuds into your back and you cry out in pain (turn to

243).

$2
Before the Hag can complete her spell, you reach
into your backpack and take out the bottle contain-
ing the potion, You gulp down the liquid and fee] its
effects immediately, The Hag is still mouthing her
vile sorcery but you cannot hear her. Safe from her
evil, you draw your sword and step forward. You
grab hold of her matted hair and cut a clump from
her head. She writhes and kicks and spits at you. At
this close range you can see fresh blood on her face—
83-84

no doubt she could not wait to cook some of the
rats she had killed. Despite your repulsion you are
excited about having gained one of the items neces-
sary to defeat the Night Prince, You throw the Hag
into the sewer and walk back to the entrance hole
(turn to 104).

83

Fortunately, the contents of the jar are as the label
reads, although the strength of the mixture is un-
predictable. Roll 1 die, The number rolled is the
number of sTAMINA points that will be restored. If
you wish to continue searching the shop, turn to
322, If you would rather leave the shop to head
north, turn to 93.

84
The barrels all contain rotten fruit and the boxes
contain manacles and leg irons. Perhaps this is a
slave-trading ship. There is nothing else of interest
to you on deck. If you wish to walk over to the deck
cabin to climb down the stairs to the lower decks,
turn to 50. If you would rather leave the ship, walk
back along the jetty, turn left and walk north up
Harbour Street, turn to 78.

85-87

85
You pay the silversmith and wait patiently while he
makes a silver arrow for you. Finally he presents
you with it and assures you that it will be completely
accurate in flight. You thank him for his trouble and
leave his shop, Outside you set off east once again
(turn to 100).

86
A leather pouch hanging round the neck of the man
contains a small glass ball containing what looks like
swirling smoke. Will you:

Smash the ball on the ground? Turn to 45
Put the ball in your backpack? Turn to 194
Leave the ball behind and

continue east? Turn to 161

You reach the top of the ladder and peer over the
handrail to survey the ship's deck. There are two
large masts rising into the air from the deck.
Wooden boxes, barrels and coils of rope lie all
around, and one of the ship’s crew stands on guard
at the top of the gangplank. In the centre of the deck
there is a small cabin with an open door. Through
the door you see stairs leading down to the lower
decks. If you wish to inspect any of the wooden
boxes and barrels, you will have to deal with the
pirate on guard (turn to 120). If you wish to creep
along the deck to the stairs, turn to 50.
88-89

88

You pull back the curtains and walk into a very
lavish boudoir. In itis a young woman with her back
towards you, As you approach her she spins round
and you are stunned to see, not the young woman's
face you are expecting, but a large snake's head. It
extends out from the shoulders and bites you on the
neck. You are caught somewhat off-balance by the
SERPENT QUEEN and suffer the loss of 4 STAMINA
points and 1 $kiLL point before you can draw your
sword to defend yourself.

SERPENT QUEEN _ SKILLQ STAMINA 7

If you win, turn to 295. You may Escape after three
Attack Rounds by running out of the house and
north along Stable Street (turn to 333).

As you slide your hand into the glove, it seems to
come alive and cling tightly to your hand, Then it
changes texture and becomes hot and you feel as
though your hand is covered with burning tar
which you are unable to shake off. Mercifully it
cools down, but a thin white film remains on your
hand, making it difficult to open and close. Lose 2
SKILL points. You curse and leave the house to head
north (turn to 282).

90-93

go

You swing your sword with all] your strength and
bring it down on the heavy chain. Much to your
surprise it bounces off, Before you have time to try
again, you are surrounded by four town guards
who are pointing their pikes at you. Will you:

Tell them you have caught the

escaped prisoner for them? Turn to 199
Offer them a bribe to Jet you and
the prisoner go free? Turn to 187
91

You pass a beggar in the street. He is sitting in
the gutter and holds an empty tin in his hand.
If you wish to toss a Gold Piece into his tin, turn
to 332. If you would rather walk past him, turn to

124.

gz

You are slowly feeling your way along the bricks
when your hand comes into contact with a smooth
flat object. You pull it out and see that you are
holding a mirror. You pack itaway and walk back to
the entrance hole (turn to 174).

93
On the right-hand side of the street you see a tavern
called the Spotted Dog. If you wish to enter the
tavern, turn to 62. If you would rather continue
north, turn to 296.

94-96

94
The little man smiles and says, ‘Easy.’ He reaches

into his pocket and produces some sparkling dust
which he throws up at you. As it settles on your
clothes, a feeling of strength surges through your
body. Add 6 sTAMINA points. He then tells you that
as heis feeling particularly grateful he will grant you
another wish. With your strength returned you feel
you can now deal with Zanbar Bone and ask the
little man of his whereabouts (turn to 234),

95
On the left side of the street you see a large iron key
hanging over the doorway of a small shop. A signin
the window reads ‘J, B. Wraggins, Locksmith’. If
you want to enter the shop, turn to 224, If you
would rather continue walking west, turn to 300.

96
You open the door and enter a room which is
adorned with macabre objects and paintings. A
black cat is sitting in front of a table covered in black
cloth. Two black candles are burning on either side
of a mirror on the far wall, On the table lies an open
chest containing a golden skull, Will you:

Walk over to the chest?

Close the door and open the white door
(if you have not done so already)? Turn to 319

Close the door and walk back to
the staircase to climb up to the
next floor?

Turn to 257

Turn to 197

97-100

97
You decide to take a quick look inside the kennel.
Hanging on a hook is an iron key which you place in
your pocket. Add 1 Luck point and turn to 353.

98
You uncork the bottle with your teeth and take a
long gulp of the liquid. Fortunately the liquid is
what the man claims it to be. Add 3 STAMINA points
and 1 Luck point. Well-refreshed, you set uff east
again, bidding the old man farewell (turn to 363).

You are unable to explain why you are in Port
Blacksand and the guards draw their swords, telling
vou that you are under arrest. You draw your sword
and fight them one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
First CITY GUARD 7 4
Second CITY GUARD 6 6
If you win, turn to 285.
100

You soon arrive at a junction. If you wish to turn
north into Tower Street, turn to 127. Lf you wish to
continue east into Stable Street, turn to 246.

oo i

101-104

101
You enter the shop and see the Man-Orc standing
behind the counter. He is smiling at your misfor-
tune and says, ‘Huh, can’t even take Old Trollborn.
And don’t think | am going to give you your money
back.’ If you wish to attack the impudent Man-Orc,
turn to 5. If you would rather leave the shop and
head north again, containing your anger, turn tog3-

102

The other two vagabonds stop to aid their friend,
but it is too late, as he is already dead. They seem
undecided as to what to do next, After a brief
conversation they pick up their dead friend and
carry him off down a narrow alleyway to your right.
You walk quickly north before they have time to
reappear with more of their gang (turn to 372).

103

You arrive at a four-way junction in the street, The
street continuing east changes its name to Clock
Street and the street running north and south is
called Market Street, Looking north you see a crowd
of people walking up the street cheering loudly and
waving their arms in the air. You decide to follow
them (turn to 148).

104

Back at the entrance hole you may either climb up
the ladder to the street in order to continue east
(turn to 205) or, if you have not done soalready, you
may walk south along the sewer (turn to 118),

105-108

105

Most of the houses in the street are joined in a long
terrace, but you see one on the left side that stands
alone and is set back. There appears to be a large
waoden kennel outside the heavy oak front door. If
you wish to approach the front door, turn to 64, If
you wish to keep walking north, turn to 304.

106
The Lantern breaks on impact with the Mummy and
covers it with burning oil. Flames spread quickly
along the dry bandages and the Mummy is soon
consumed by fire. If you wish to inspect the open
sarcophagus, turn to 163. If you wish to leave the
room immediately, turn to 231.

107
The back room is as lavishly furnished as the front
room. In the far corner you see a wooden chest
bolted to the floor, It is securely locked. If you wish
to try to pick the lock, turn to 128. If you wish to
leave the room and climb the stairs to the floor
above, turn to 60.

108

You lower yourself slowly to the ground. Above
you the guards are waving their fists at you from the
battlements. You are now outside Port Blacksand.
Do you have all the necessary items required to slay
the Night Prince? If you have them all and have
been tattooed, turn to 201. If you lack any of the
items or have not been tattooed, turn to 299.

109-111

109

The guards look at each other and burst out
laughing. Then one says, ‘Do you think we would
risk letting you in Port Blacksand for the sake of 5
Gold Pieces? If Lord Azzur found out that we let you
in without a pass, we would be dead men. Let's hear
no more about bribes, it’s the dungeon for you.’
Turn to 151.

110

Your fight attracted a group of onlookers. Some of
the beggars even cheered when you cut down old
Sourbelly. But one sly-looking character sloped off
with the obvious intention of finding more guards.
It is dangerous to stay here any longer, so you run
off west along Mill Street (turn to 239).

111
You cut the pouch from round the pirate’s neck and
open it. Inside you find six black pearls. Add 2 Luck
points. You leave the room with your valuable
treasure, Outside in the corridor you may either
open the other door if you have not done so already
{turn to 232) or leave the ship and continue your
search of Port Blacksand, walking north up Harbour
Street (turn to 78).
112-114

112

While most of the houses in the street are small,
cramped and dark, you see one ahead that stands
alone and is painted bright red. The door has a
‘Welcome’ sign hanging from it. If you wish to enter
the house, turn to 154. If you prefer to keep walking
north, turn to 334,

113

You enter the house and find yourself standing ina
room full of toys. But they are not ordinary toys.
These are stuffed creatures with nails through their
heads, dolls’ houses that are made to look as if they
are on fire, and many other unpleasant objects. In
the middle of the room stand two old women dres-
sed as though they were little girls. They are squab-
bling over a carved wooden duck. Each looks eager
to destroy the duck with the knives they are hold-
ing. On seeing you the women both start to shout,
‘Give us toys! Give us toys!’ If you wish to give them
something from your backpack, make the necessary
deduction on your Adventure Sheet and turn to 141. If
you would rather leave these strange old ladies and
continue east, turn to 375.

114

There are three bejewelled rings under the counter
and 13 Gold Pieces in a drawer. Take what you will
and leave the shop to continue west (turn to 196).

115-116

115
Coming towards you as fast as he is able is a man in
tattered rags with a ball and chain attached to his
leg. He is exhausted and collapses in your arms. His
face is dirty and unshaven. With great difficulty he
manages to speak, saying, ‘Please cut me free. The
town guards are not far behind me. I have been
locked in a dungeon for two years but managed to
tunnel my way out, I was robbed and unable to pay
my taxes, so Lord Azzur ordered I should be jailed
for five years. Please help me.’ Farther up the street
you hear shouting voices and then armed men come
into view, [If you want to cut through his chains with
your sword, turn to go. If you want to hand him over
to the town guards, turn to 274.

116

Walking north along the street you see the entrance
to a small herbalist’s shop to your left. Looking
through the window you see a wooden counter
with a pair of scales upon it, and many sacks of
different herbs crowding the floor. There is a small
archway leading out of the back of the shop to
another room, There is an ‘Open’ sign on the door
but the shop is empty. If you wish to enter the shop,
turn to 250. If you would rather continue walking
north up Market Street, turn to 93.

: tlie -

a com

hi AO age A oat

Ne a METAS eda
_ : 4 a

Se: te ¥- Lor,

a  « a
~~ s &

“3 =

117-118

11
At the end of the nae. a Street named Bridge
Street runs north out of the square, You decide to
walk down it in the hope of finding the elusive
Nicodemus. It starts to rain and the tumbledown
houses huddled together on either side of the street
look as if they need shelter themselves. Most have
their windows boarded up and are empty. The door
to one flaps noisily in the wind. If you wish to take
refuge in the derelict house until the rain stops, turn
to 188. If you would rather press on ahead, turn to

31.

h~% { ’ s?
= Res od

‘
" es 6%

Cran! b=
> pee

<i> An /
¢

fs

'

esl iv

118

You can hear some scratching sounds in the tunnel
ahead. Then you see a long shadow appear on the
curved brick wall. In the dim light you can just make
out the large shape of something black and shiny
moving towards you. Thescratching becomes louder
and you also hear clicking sounds. The monster is
only a couple of metres ahead of you when you
recognize it as a Giant Centipede, Do you possess
an insect bracelet? If you do, turn to 2. If not, turn to
166.
119~120

119

The small boy smiles and thrusts a tin mug into your
hand. He tells you the barrel contains sparkling
water which cures ills, wounds and diseases. To fill
the mug costs 3 Gold Pieces. If you wish to drink the
water, turn to 233. If you would rather keep your
gold and walk north, turn to 247,

You pick up a piece of wood and run as quietly as
possible over to the pirate to try to knock him
unconscious. Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, he
does not hear you approach and you hit him on the
back of the head. He falls to the deck unconscious
and you begin your search (turn to 84). If you are
Unlucky, you stumble on a coil of rope and the
pirate turns to face you (turn to 152).

121-122

121

The Ogre gulps down the food in no time at all.
Licking his lips, he turns to you and tells you to get
out of his home. If you wish to obey the ungrateful
Ogre, and leave the house heading north, turn to
282. If you wish to draw your sword to teach hima
lesson, turn to 140,

122

The room you enteris full of debris and rotting food.
Standing in the middle of all the mess are two men
wearing tattered clothing. They have hollow eyes
and vacant expressions. On seeing you, they pick
up wooden sticks and advance towards you, If you
wish to back out of the room and shut them in, turn
to 277. Lf you wish to attack them, turn to 361.
123-126

123

Inside a box on a wooden shelf you find 3 Gold
Pieces and an iron key, On examining it you realize
that it is a very special key. It is a skeleton key that
will open just about any lock you care to try, Add 1
LUCK point and leave the shop to head west. Turn to
300.

124
A narrow alleyway runs south off the street be-
tween two houses. If you wish to walk down the
alleyway, turn to 326. If you would rather continue
along Harbour Street, turn to 180.

125
This shield is cursed by Zanbar Bone. Anybody who
is not undead will suffer if they use it, Lose 1 SKILL
point. Unable to rid yourself of this handicap, you
walk over to the spiral staircase and climb up it (turn
to 24).

126
The little girl grabs hold of your arm and leads you
into a back room. Saying nothing, she motions you
to lie down on a sheepskin rug. Suddenly you are
aware of a very old man sitting opposite. He rises
slowly from his rocking chair and walks over to you.
You watch transfixed as he takes hold of an arrow
protruding from your arm and gently pulls it free
without causing you any pain. The wound made
by the arrow disappears before your eyes. Other
arrows are treated similarly if you suffered more

127-128

than one wound. You may restore 2 STAMINA
points for each arrow pulled free by the old man,
Then in a slow and almost inaudible voice he tells
you that he wants the broadsword that Owen Cara-
lif gave you in payment for the healing. You feel
obliged to give him your sword, though reluctantly.
In exchange he gives you an ordinary fighting
sword, Reduce your SKILL score by 1. You leave the
house and head north (turn to 112).

127

Just ahead of you, three men are involved ina fight —
the two younger men appear to be attacking an
older man with iron bars. If you wish to help the old
man, turn to 177. If you would rather avoid the
brawling men and continue north, turn to 348.

128

As you try to turn the lock with a piece of bent wire,
you are alarmed by the sound of two clicks. Two
tiny panels in the chest flick open to expose two
needle darts which shoot out at you, Test your Lrok
twice, once for each dart. If you are Lucky both
times, the darts bounce harmlessly off your armour
(turn to 340). If you are Unlucky once, a dart flies
into your hand (turn to 149), If you are Unlucky
twice, both darts fly into your hand (turn to 19).

129-130

129
You step back from the vile bady of Zanbar Bone,
waiting for him to decay. However, you have
chosen wrongly! He pulls the arrow from his chest
and rubs the compound from his eyes. He sees you
and laughs, You are mesmerized by his power and
are unable to move. He walks up to you and touches
your face with his skeletal fingers. Your life is being
guickly drained away, and soon you will begin your
undead existence as a servant of Zanbar Bone.

130

As the guard slumps to the ground, two more
armed men appear from a stone guardhouse by the
_ gate, obviously attracted by the noise of your battle.
There is no time to run so you must fight them one at
atime.

SKILL STAMINA
First CITY GUARD 6 6
Second CITY GUARD 7 5

If vou win, turn to 74.

131-133

131
You walk into a room with sparse furnishings and a
polished wooden floor. Silk curtains hang down
over an archway on the far wall, As you start to walk
across the waoden floor, a woman’‘s voice calls out
‘Who is it?’ You may:

Tell her you are delivering flowers Turn to 67
Tell her you have come to collect
old rags Turn to 6

Tell her you are a tax collector Turn to 179

132

Che creature pins the silver broach to your leather
tunic and you pay the price demanded. You have
bought an item with healing properties. After sur-
viving any battle, the brooch will immediately res-
tore 1 STAMINA point to your total. Pleased with
your purchase, you leave the house and head north
(turn to 334).

133

The street ends at a junction with Mill Street, which
runs east and west along the city wall, Looking east
you see a group of town guards marching towards
you and you decide to walk quickly west along Mill
Street. On your left you see a narrow lane and ahead
you see a young lad coming towards you pushing a
barrow laden with fruit. If you wish to walk down
the lane, turn to 182. If you wish to buy some fruit
from the barrow-boy, turn to 160,
134-136

134
You wake up feeling dazed, with a large lump on
your head. Your backpack lies open by your side
and you are annoyed to discover that all your gold
has been stolen. Those thieving Dwarfs! You stand
up and set off west down the street (turn to 396).

135
When you draw your sword the man cries out and

runs into a back room, You follow him into the
room. He is apparently unarmed, but is holding an
egg and a small key in his hands. He warns you that
the egg contains a deadly gas and he will throw it at
you. He also threatens to swallow the key to his
silver cupboard. If you still wish to attack him, turn
to 22g. If you wish to run out of the shop and go
further up Clog Street, turn to 100,

136
You walk over to the bar and order a drink. The old
innkeeper scow'ls and tells you that he doesn’t serve
people from out of town. He pulls a dagger from his
belt and, stabbing it in the bar top, tells you to leave.
If you want to fight the innkeeper, turn to 270, If you
want to leave the tavern and head north, turn to 296.

137-139

137

As you take your first step forwards you are alarmed
to hear the familiar whistle of arrows flying through
the air. They are coming from windows on either
side of the street. Roll one die. This is the number of
arrows that will hit you and each will cause you to
lose 3 STAMINA points. If you are still alive, lose 2
LUCK points and turn to 327.

138
If you fought the Ape Man, turn to 312. If you
fought any of the other creatures, turn to 283.

139

Walking along the street you are suddenly halted by
a plant pot smashing on to the cobblestones in front
of you. You look to the left and see an open window.
Inside, voices can be heard arguing. The door to the
house is open. If you wish to enter the house to find
out what the argument is about, turn to 123. If you
would rather ignore the argument and continue
east, turn to 375-

— ee ee

140-142

140

The OGRE looks unimpressed by your aggressive
action and, picking up a large bone as a weapon,
lumbers towards you. You must fight him.

OGRE SKILL 8

If you defeat him, turn to 71, After the third Attack
Round, you may Escape by running out of the house
to head north (turn to 282).

STAMINA gt

141

The women immediately start arguing again over
your gift to them, ignoring you completely. You
look around the room and see a table set for a meal.
There are two bowls of hot soup on top of the
table waiting to be drunk. If you wish to pick up a
wooden spoon and drink some of the soup, turn to
68, If you would rather leave the old ladies and
continue east, turn to 375.

142
The crossbow bolt has a poisoned tip. You stagger
back from the force of the bolt and fall to the ground.
The poison spreads through your body quickly and
you sink into a deep sleep from which you will not
awaken,
1437144

143
When you hear the guards coming down the stairs,
vou lie on the floor and start to groan. They unlock
the cell door and enter. If you wish to continue with
your feigned illness and tell them that you think
you've got the plague, turn to 306. If you wish to
fight them unarmed, turn to 157.

I44
The Hag screams as your sword cuts deep into her
arm. Her concentration is lost and the spell is
broken. Your mind clears and you are able to face
her with your senses acute again. From out of her
clothing the Hag pulls a dagger with a long shim-
mering blade. You are eager to fight her:

HAG SKILL 7

lr vou win, turn to 303.

STAMINA?

145-147

145

Inside the shop an old woman is busily watering the
flowers and plants. She looks up and smiles, saying,
‘Good afternoon, my name is Mrs Pipe. Can I in-
terest you in one of my special flowers?’ If you wish
to see what she has to offer, turn to 293- If you wish
to leave the shop, refuse politely and head west
(turn to 24).

You walk back into the shop. You try to open the
glass cupboard but it is locked. Inside you see two
silver goblets, a silver chalice and a silver spoon. Do
you have a skeleton key? If you have a key, turn to
220. If you do not have a key, turn to 388.

147
A search through the leather bags of the thieves
produces 16 Gold Pieces and a glass phial contain-
ing a green liquid. If you wish to drink the liquid,
turn to 338. If you would rather just take the gold
and press on northwards, turn fo 105.
148-150

148

As you catch up with the chanting crowd, you see
that they are carrying eggs and rotten tomatoes.
Soon the street opens out into a large market square,
All round the edge are stalls with vendors, hawkers,
musicians and entertainers carrying on their busi-
ness. In the middle of the square is an elevated
pillory, Above the noise of the crowd a trumpet
sounds and the crowd start to pelt the man in the
pillory with rotten food. An old woman standing
next to you offers you two eggs to throw. Not
wishing to appear to be an outsider, you take the
eggs and hurl them, But as you do so, the old
woman picks your pocket without you noticing.
Lose 1 Gold Piece or any one item you may have,
Unaware of your loss, you walk away from the
crowd to look at the various stalls (turn to 287).

149
The dartis poison-tipped. Lose 2 STAMINA points. If
you are still alive and wish to continue picking the
lock, turn to 340. If you would rather leave the room
and climb the stairs to the floor above, turn to 60,

150
The Troll bursts out laughing and says, ‘Fooled you!
There isn't a Pepper Street in Port Blacksand!’ His
face folds into a sickly grin and he tells you that you
are under arrest for being in Port Blacksand without
authorization, He tells you that he is feeling gener-
ous, however, and offers you a choice. You can pay
a fine of all the gold in your backpack and be thrown
lili tilt itat

~~. “oes

151

out of the city, or spend a year with rats and
cockroaches in a dirty dungeon cell. The other Troll
bursts out laughing, saying, “Generous? Ho! Ho!
Ho! Ah, Sourbelly, you've got such a sense of
humour!’ If you wish to pay the fine and be thrown
out of the city, turn to 367, If you wish to resist
arrest, turn to 73.

151
The two guards lead you into the guardhouse and
take you immediately downstairs to the cells below.
There are four cells and all are empty except for one
which houses a frail, white-haired old man. The
guards unlock the cell next to the old man’s and
throw you in, placing your sword ona table outside.

_ The only contents of the cell are a strasv mattress

and a pail of water. The guards go back upstairs and
as they disappear the old man gets up off his bed
and starts to speak. ‘You're an outsider, aren't you?
Don’t reply, it’s obvious, Do you want me to set you
free? Give me 10 Gold Pieces and I'll have you out in

_ five minutes.’ The old man then puts his arm

through the bars of your cell with the palm of his
hand upturned, If you wish to give the ald man 10
Gold Pieces, turn to 351. If you would rather ignore
the old man, turn to 29,

152-154

152
The PIRATE draws his cutlass. As he approaches,
his toothless grin unnerves you a little.

PIRATE

You do not have time to draw your sword and must
fight the pirate with the wooden stick, During each
Attack Round you must deduct 2 points from your
Attack Strength. If you win, turn to 20.

SKILL 7 STAMINA 5

153

Holding the golden owl in your hand, you are able
to see into the pitch-black room. Just in time, you
see the trip-wire across the doorway at your feet and
the large crossbow pointing at you on the opposite
wall. There is nothing else in the room. You decide
to walk back to the staircase to climb up to the next
floor (turn to 65).

154
Inside the house you find yourself ina room painted
red and empty apart froma table on top of which are
two glass bowls. In one there is a small golden
scorpion and in the other lies a silver scorpion. In
the far corner of the room there are stairs that lead
up to another floor. You may:

Pick up the golden scorpion Turn to 273
Pick up the silver scorpion Turn to 13
Climb the stairs Turn to 80

Leave the house and head north Turn to 334
1§5-157

155
Lose 3 STAMINA points. If you are still alive, you

stand up and brush yourself down, The carriage
races out of view and you set off west again, hoping
that you will have another opportunity to meet the
infamous Lord Azzur (turn to 171).

156

Standing on either side of you, the Trolls march you
along Mill Street until you reach the city’s North
Gate at the junction with Goose Street. They tell the
two guards on duty not to let you back into Port
Blacksand. They give you a forceful boot up the
backside and you land sprawling on the dusty road
outside. Do you have all the items required to slay
the Night Prince? If you have them all and have
been tattooed, turn to 201. If you are missing any of
the items or have not been tattooed, turn to 299.

157
You leap up and punch the first guard. He staggers

back and draws his sword, You fight them one at a
time in the small cell.

SKILL STAMINA
_ First CITY GUARD 6 A
Second CITYGUARD 7 5

During each Attack Round you must deduct 3 from
your Attack Strength because you are fighting bare-
handed. If you manage to defeat the guards, you
leave the cell and climb the stairs, picking up your
sword off the table (turn to 54).

158-160

158
You must react quickly to escape the advancing Suit
of Armour. If you wish to open the door in front of
you, turn to 122. If you wish to run back to the
staircase and climb up to the next floor, turn to 207,

159
The owner of the house is obviously quite wealthy.
Lavish furnishing and fine objets d‘art adorn the
marble-floored room in which you stand. An arch-
way leads into a back room and stairs to your right
lead up to another floor, Will you:

Search the room you are in? Turn to 278
Walk through the archway? Turn to 107
Climb the stairs? Turn to 60

160
The boy puts down his barrow and asks you what
you would like to buy. He recommends his plumsas
being particularly refreshing. If you wish to pay 1
Gold Piece for a bag of plums, turn to 211, If you
wish to buy a bag of red apples for 1 Gold Piece, turn

to 242.
161

The street makes a sudden left turn and continues
north as far as you can see, However, you notice
that round the comer the houses are much bigger,
with doorways some four metres high. On the left
side of the street you see that a door to one of the
houses is open. If you wish to enter the house, turn
to 245, [f you wish to keep going northwards, turn
to 282.

162
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, you manage to cut
the pouch loose without waking the pirates (turn to
7). If you are Unlucky, the man’s eyes flick open as
you try tocut the cord and he grabs hold of yourarm
while calling out to his mates for help (turn to 226).

163
The sarcophagus contains a gold ring which has an
eye etched into its top. You have found the long-lost
Ring of the Golden Eye, fabled for its ability to allow
its wearer to detect illusions. Add 2 LucK points and
leave the room (turn to 231).

164-166

164
You stagger forward beyond the angle of fire of the
unseen archers. Ahead you see some sacks lying
outside a house and you slump down on top of
them. Slowly and painfully you pull the arrows
from your body. After bandaging your wounds you
rise to your feet and continue north (turn to 112).

165
You may either turn nght down Candle Street (turn
to 139) or walk back to the junction and go down
Harbour Street {turn to 92).-

166
You will have to swing your sword with all your
might to pierce the armour-like shell of this mon-
ster,

GIANT CENTIPEDE SKILL 10 STAMINA 5

If you win, turn to 272.
167-168

1
When you have paid the Man-Orc the 4 Gold Pieces,
he explains that placing the herbs on a wound will
help to heal it. Unfortunately the strength of the
mixture varies. When required, roll 1 die. The num-
ber rolled is the number of STAMINA points that will
be restored. Somewhat surprised at your good for-
tune you leave the shop and walk north. Add 1
LUCK point and turn to 93.

168

The Bays have difficulty in explaining themselves,
but you manage to understand that one of the other
team is going to throw the ball at you. You are
handed the wooden stick and told that if you hit the
ball over the wall, you will win the game for them.
Roll two dice. If the number rolled is equal to or less
than your SKILL score, you hit the ball powerfully in
the middle of the bat and watch it soar over the wall
(turn to 359). lf the number rolled is greater than
your SKILL score, the ball goes whistling by your
midriff as you swing, and a voice behind you calls,
‘You're out!’ (turn fo 266).

169-170

169

The blacksmith removes his gloves and wipes his
hands on his apron before asking you what you
want, You answer by asking if he makes anything
besides horseshoes. He replies that in his spare time
he enjoys making chaim-.-+i] coats. In fact if has
become quite a profitable sideline of his, especially
in a place like Port Blacksand. He tells you in great
detail of the skill and labour that goes into making
one and finally inquires if you are interested in
buying one. They are not cheap. If you wish to pay
20 Gold Pieces for a chainmail coat, turn to 46. If you
wish to leave the stables without buying a coat, turn
to 115.

170
The man sees you drawing your sword and snatch-
es his battle-axe off the wall. He walks around the
counter to fight you.

JEWELLER SKILL 9

If you win, turn to 114. You may Escape by running
out of the shop and west along the street (turn to

196),

STAMINAS ~

171173

171

The street gradually starts to run downhill. The
houses end at a tavern called the Black Lobster and
the street opens out on to a quayside. A stone jetty
runs out to sea and tied to it is an old galleon. It is
flying the skull and crossbones and is probably one
of the many pirate ships that anchor in Port Black-
sand to off-load their booty, Harbour Street turns
right at the jetty and runs north parallel to the shore
as far as you can see, If you wish to walk down the
jetty to climb on board the ship, turn to 399. If you
wish to walk north up Harbour Street, turn to 78.

172

You take the bunch of flowers out of your backpack
and hand it to the Serpent Queen. She thanks you
and hands you a tip of 2 Gold Pieces before showing
you to the front door, Outside you set off north
along Stable Street (turn to 333).

173

The three old bearded Dwarfs are so involved with
their game that they pay you no attention as you sit
down at their table. Finally, one turns to you and
asks if you would like to join in their game. If you
wish to gamble some of your Gold Pieces, turn to
206. If you would rather leave the smoky tavern and
walk north, turn to 296.
174-176

174
Back at the entrance hole you may either climb up
the ladder to the street in order to continue east
(turn to 205) or, if you have not done so already, you
may walk north along the sewer (turn to 356}.

175
Slowly lifting the goblet, you are surprised to see a

yellow scorpion underneath. It darts forward and
tries to sting you on the hand with its poisonous tail.
Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, the tail stabs the
goblet (turn to 204). If you are Unlucky, the barb on
its tail sinks into your hand (turn to 373).

176
You tell the worried bather that, despite your hatred
for pirates, you will not harm him if he cooperates
with you. You ask him if he has any of the items that
you are searching for, but he replies that as captain
of a pirate ship he does not need such things. You
press the blade of your sword against his fat neck to
make sure he is not lying. He looks terrified and
assures you that he is telling the truth. Then he says,

|

177

‘But! do know where you can geta silverarrow. Ben
Borryman the silversmith will make anything in
silver at a price, You will find him in Clog Street.’
Making a mental note of the information you leave
the shivering captain alone in his room, locking the
door behind you. Outside in the corridor you may
either open the other door if you have not done so
already (turn to 271) or leave the ship and continue
your search of Port Blacksand by walking north up
Harbour Street (turn to 78).

177
You draw your sword and rush to help the old man.
He is lying on the ground and the other two men are
beating him and trying to take his leather bag. You
call out and they turn and attack you.

SKILL STAMINA
First ROBBER - 8
Second ROBBER 8 6

Fight them one at a time. If you win, turn to 51.

178-181
178

The archway leads into a large room in the centre of
which crouches a human-like creature, some three
metres tall. He looks very worried and is muttering
to himself. The lumps on his face are the distin-
guishing marks of an Ogre, Will you:

Attempt to speak with him? Turn to 264

Attack him with your sword? Turn to 140

Leave the house to head north? Turn to 282
179

The silk curtains in front of the archway are pulled
aside and a brown leather bag flies out and lands in
front of you, making a dull jingling sound. If you
wish to open the bag, turn to 16, If you wish to leave
the house without opening the bag and continue
north along Stable Street, turn to 333.

180
Ahead you hear the noisy clatter of galloping
hooves on the cobblestones, You hear the noise of
wooden wheels and an urging voice followed by the
crack of a whip. Someone is rapidly approaching in
a horse-drawn carriage; if you wish to see who it is,
turn to 344. If you would rather hide out of sight
behind a barrel and watch the carriage pass by, turn

to 34.

181
The key fits the lock and the handle turns. Turn to

159.
182-184

182

The lane ends at a small shop. On the glass-paned
door is painted a sign: ‘Jimmy Quicktint, Best Tat-
tooist in Town’, A tiny bell rings as you push the
door open and a fat man wearing purple silk smiles
in greeting. You are surprised to see that his arms,
hands, feet and even his face are completely co-
vered in colourful tattoos, He grins and says, ‘Prac-
tise what you preach!’ You tell him that you require
a yellow sun to be tattooed on your forehead witha
white unicorn in the centre of it. He replies thatitisa
simple task but it will cost you 10 Gold Pieces. If you
can afford his high price, turn to 279. [f you cannot,
turn to 354.

183
You are told that smoking mixture and a pipe costs 1
Gold Piece, and healing mixture costs 4 Gold Pieces
per portion. You may:

Buy some smoking mixture Turn to 366
Buy some healing mixture Turn to 167
Leave the shop and head north Turn to 93

184
Do you have any of Mrs Pipe’s golden flowers? If
you do, turn to 55. If not, turn to 308.

185-188

185
The suit of armour breaks up as it crashes on to the
floor, Itis no threat to you and you may either open
the door in front of you (turn to 122) or walk back to
the staircase and climb up to the next floor (turn to

207).

186
On top of the Lizardine’s table you find 4 Gold
Pieces and a scorpion brooch made of copper. If you
wish to pick up the brooch and pin it to your tunic,
turn to 387. If you would rather just take the gold, go
back down the stairs and leave the house, heading
north, turn to 334.

187
You tell the town guards that you have something
special for them if they let the two of you go. They
reply that the prisoner is a murderer and that you
should not help him, but they insist that you bribe
them or else you too will be taken to the jail. They
say they are interested in any of the following items:
magic armour, magic rings or magic potions. If you
wish to give them one of the items they require, turn
to 260. If you do not have any of the items that the
guards require, turn to 341.

188
It is gloomy in the house but you can make out the
shapes of abandoned furniture. Litter and rubble is
strewn all over the floor, You find a broken chair
and slump down in it to rest. Suddenly you notice

ee ee ee ee

189

something slither across the floor, and before you
can get to your feet you see in the half-light that you
are encircled by six snakes, each a metre long. If you
wish to hack at them with your sword, turn to 253. If
you would rather make a dash for the door, turn to

189
You take aim with your bow and fire the arrow at the
Spirit Stalker. The arrow plunges into its chest and
the agonized look on the face of the Spirit Stalker
tells you that the arrow has pierced its heart. It falls
to the floor, and smoke starts to rise from its rotten
flesh. Its mouth opens to release a deafening how!
that echoes around the hallway and makes you
shudder, Finally it is still, and you retrieve your
silver arrow. You see that you are in a beautiful
marble-floored hallway. On three of the four svalls
hang portraits of evil-looking men and women, but
on the far wall hang two iron shields. The crest on
one is a tower, and on the other a unico. A spiral
staircase leads up from the centre of the hallway to
the floor above. Will you:

Take the shield with the towercrest? Turn to 125
Take the shield with the unicorn

crest? Turn to 374
Climb the spiral staircase? Tumto 21
190-191

Sitting down at the table the men invite you to join
in their game of pin-finger. You feel obliged to
accept their challenge and take hold of a dagger
offered to you. The men tell you that you must stick
the point of the dagger back and forth between your
fingers into the table top as fast as you can for a
minute. If you manage not to stab yourself they will
give you a magic item. lf you do stab yourself you
must give them 5 Gold Pieces. Roll two dice. If the
number rolled is less than or equal to your $KILL
score, you succeed (turn to 38). If the number rolled
is greater than your SKILL, you are unable to control
the fast movement of the dagger and stab one of
your fingers. You toss 5 Gold Pieces on the table and
stand up to leave the tavern. Outside you head
north again (turn to 296).

191
You draw your sword to defend yourself against the
advancing LEAF BEASTS. They all attack you at
once, seemingly trying to crush and smother you.
Treat the Leaf Beasts as a single creature.

LEAF BEASTS

If you win, you run back to the turnstile still clutch-
ing the lotus and make your getaway into Stable
Street (turn to 133).

SKILL 6 STAMINA 6

192-195

192
It is a drop of some five metres to the ground and
you land heavily. Test your Luck, If you are Lucky,
you escape injury and set off north again (turn ta
304}. If you are Unlucky, you twist your sword arm
badly. Lose 1 skitu point. Once again, you head
north (turn to 304).

193
if you have a Ring of Fire, it will be the best weapon
against the Mummy (turn to 286). Otherwise you
must use your sword.

MUMMY

[f you win, turn to 163.

SKILL 7 STAMINA 12

194
The smoke in the glass ball appears to vanish as you
place it carefully in your backpack. Feeling slightly
uneasy about your new treasure you set off cast
again (turn to 162).

— ee ee OO
spicing A FAM UO FN Eee SNS Poe ,

© a te

195
Which person will you say sent the flowers? You
may:

Tell her itis Lord Azzur Turn to 61
Tell her it is Mrs Pipe Turn to 268
Tell her it is Ben Borryman Turn to 53
196-198

196

You arrive at a forr-way junction in the street, The
street continuing west changes its name to Key
Street, and the street running north and south is
called Market Street. Looking north you see a crowd
of people walking up the street cheering loudly and
waving their arms in the air, You decide to follow
them (turn to 148).

197
On the next Janding there is a door with a black
tower carved in ebony attached to it. There is alsoa
black suit of armour standing outside the door, Will
you:

Inspect the suit of armour? Turn to 301
Open the door? Turn to 122
Carry on up the stairs? Turn to 207

198
You look around at the rest of the crowd but they
remain seated out of respect for your swords-
manship, You search through the dirty clothing of
the Goblins and find 9g Gold Pieces and a small
carved ivory skull on a silver chain. You take your
findings and leave the tavern to head north (turn to

296).

199-201

199
You tell the town guards that you are a bounty
hunter, They seem pleased that you have caught
their wanted man. The chief guard walks over to
you and hands you 5 Gold Pieces, saying, ‘This
murderer won't escape again. Here’s your reward.’
He then rejoins the other guards who are busy
chaining up the escaped murderer. You decide to
head quickly north in case the murderer tries to
implicate you (turn to 222),

200
[In the next stall area there is a small, brightly col-
oured tent. Attached to it is a small sign which
reads, ‘Madame Star, Clairvoyant’. If you wish to
enter the tent, turn to 394. If you would rather
continue north, turn to 117.

201
Following Nicodemus’s map, you Start your long
walk north to the guarded tower of Zanbar Bone,
the Night Prince. You walk through woods and
fields. You are able to relax a little in the pleasant
countryside and breathe the fresh air with its
wonderful scents. As the light fades you decide to
camp under a huge elm tree. You cook a meal of
stewed rabbit and mushrooms before settling down
toa long, deep sleep (add 2 STAMINA points). In the
morning you look around for a yew tree and cuta
long branch from it with which you make a bow to
fire the silver arrow. As you test the bow for accur-
acy, you are suddenly aware of a white dove sitting
on a low branch near by. There is a small piece of
paper attached to its foot which it lets you remove
without flying off. There is a message on the paper
which reads:

Dear Friend,
Lam afraid | must be getting too old to be of use to
anybody. [regret that [ have misinformed you
about the compound needed to kill Zanbar Bone.
You must use only two of the three ingredients !
told you, but [ cannot remember which two, I can
only suggest you try Hag’s hair and black pearls
together, or the Hag’s hair and lotus flower
together, or the black pearls and lotus flower
together. Apologies-
Good luck,

NM.

fy >. - is e
4 st eee
t
pole i ed

You throw the message on the ground and curse.
You change your mind a dozen times before making
a decision. Finally you make your choice, and grind
the two ingredients together on a flat stone. You
place the compound in a leather pouch, hoping
you have made the correct decision. You set off
again, but it is not long before your surroundings
become less welcoming, the trees are twisted or
stunted and there are no birds to be heard — you
must be approaching the domain of the Night
Prince. Suddenly to your left you hear rustling and
grunting in the bushes. It is a wandering monster

202

which has been attracted by your scent. Roll one
die and consult the table below to see what creature
has appeared. Fight this creature as usual,

Die roll Creature SKILL STAMINA
1 ORC 5 4
2 GIANTSNAKE 6 6
3 WOLF 5 5
4 PYGMY 4 4
5 APE MAN 7 6
6 CAVE TROLL 8 7

if you win, turn to 138.

The guard replies that he will send for an escort to
take you to Nicodemus. He reaches up to a small
bell on the wall of the guardhouse and rings it three
times. Almost immediately two other guards come
running out of the house, and you are surprised
when they each grab hold of one of your arms. The
guard with the pike looks up to the sky and laughs,
saying, ‘So you want to see Nicodemus, do you?
How would you like to see the inside of a dungeon
cell instead? Guards, take this fool away to be
shackled, and throw away the key.’ Will you:

Allow yourself to be taken away? Turn to 151
Attempt to fight the guards? Turn to 69
Try to bribe the guards? ‘ Turn to 276
203205

203
Zanbar Bone walks towards you, trying to touch
your exposed skin. You throw down your sword
and notch the silver arrow to your bow, You have
only one chance. You take aim and release the bow-
string. Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, the arrow
finds its mark and pierces the Night Prince through
his robed chest (turn to 244). If you are Unlucky, the
arrow misses the Night Prince and he advances to
touch your arm, His skeletal fingers are draining
your life away. You are now one of his undead
servants.

204

You drop the goblet and pull your hand away. The
scorpion scurries a metre across the floor before you
step on it with your boot. If you have not done so
already, you may lift goblet B (turn ta 209) or goblet
C(turn to 43). [Ifyou have lostinterest in the goblets,
you may either walk through the archway (turn to
107) or climb the stairs (turn to 60).

205

After replacing the manhole cover you set off east
again. Everything seems a little too quiel and you
begin to feel nervous. Ahead you see that Stable
Street turns sharply to the left. If you wish to walk
round the corner, turn to 44. If you wish to walk
back to the junction and turn right into Tower
Street, turn to 127.
206-207

206

The Dwarf explains that they are playing a simple
winner-takes-al] dice game, The stakes are 2 Gold
Pieces. Each person will stake 2 Gold Pieces and roll
two dice. The person rolling the highest number
collects the 8 Gold Pieces. To play, roll two dice
three times for the three Dwarfs and make a note of
each total. Next, roll two dice for yourself. If your
own total is higher than each of the other three
totals, you win 6 Gold Pieces from the Dwarfs. If the
total is less than any of the other three totals, you
lose 2 Gold Pieces. You may play four times if you
wish to before the Dwarfs get bored and leave the
tavern, At the end of the game vou leave the tavern
yourself to head north (turn to 296).

The staircase ends at a door, You turn the handle
slowly and the door opens, much to your surprise,
into open air. You walk outside on to the flat roof of
the tower, Suddenly you are aware of movement in
the sky and look up to see two large birds in the
moonlight with long beaks and talons swooping
down on you. There is no time to run for cover, and
you must fight the DEATH HAWKS.

SKILL STAMINA
First DEATH HAWK 4 5
Second DEATHHAWK = 4 4

Fight them one at a time. [f you win, turn to 314.

208=211

208
The Goblin’s pockets contain 2 Gold Pieces, a clove
of garlic and some old knucklebones. Take what you
wish and head east again along Clog Street (turn to

317).

209
Underneath the goblet lies a small pile of Gold
Pieces. You count 12 in all and put them in your
backpack. If you have not done so already, you may
lift goblet A {turn to 175) or goblet C (turn to 43}. If
you are not interested in the goblets, you may either
walk through the archway (turn to 107) or climb the
stairs (turn to 60).

210

Her gaze is so hypnotic that you are unable to look
away. You are defenceless and cannot resist as she
embraces you and slowly sinks her fangs into your
neck to drink your blood, You drift into an uncon-
scious sleep, and when you awake you are unaware
of your previous existence = you have become a
Vampire yourself!

211
The plums are sweet and juicy and taste delicious.
Add 1 STAMINA point. You wipe your mouth with
the back of your hand and continue west (turn to

307).

sy
212—215

212
You are relieved that the noise of your fight did not
attract any more guards, but not wishing to tempt
providence you dash into the city (turn to 74).

213
A man wearing a white apron is sitting at a bench
busily polishing a silver goblet. There are several
silver objects in a glass cupboard secured by an iron
grill at the back of the shop, You may:

Talk to the silversmith Turn to 248
Attack him with your sword Turn to 135
Leave the shop and continue east Turn to 100

214
As soon as you touch the battle-axe, the Suit of
Armour starts to move. In a series of quick, jerky
movements it swings the battle-axe in an attempt to
strike you. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, you
manage to jump back out of reach of the swinging
axe (turn to 158). If you are Unlucky, the blade cuts
into your left arm (turn to 379).

215
The lizard-like creature starts to speak in a low,
hissing voice by asking whether you would like to
buy one of its famous scorpion broaches. If you
wish to buy one, turn to 315. lf you would rather
refuse politely, go back down the stairs and leave
the house to head north, turn to 334,

216-217

216

Clog Street is very narrow and lined with terraced
cottages and the occasional shop. To your left you
see what looks like a small boy lying face down on
the cobblestones, groaning loudly. A hood is pulled
over his head and you cannot see his face. A
wooden hoop and stick lie by his side. If you wish to
stop to help, turn to 72. If you would rather walk on,
turn to 317,

217
You walk all day until you reach the hill shown on
Nicodemus’s map upon which the Night Prince’s
tower stands. All is quiet and there is an unpleasant
smell of decay in the air. Shadows start to creep
along the ground as the moon rises into the night
sky and you see the foreboding silhouetted shape of
Zanbar Bone’s tower pointing up into the sky like a
black finger, You check all your possessions before
drawing your sword and marching towards the
arched wooden entrance door. Suddenly you heara
shrill how! and swing round to see two pairs of eyes
Staring at you, They belong to MOON DOGS, Zan-
bar Bone’s trained killer hounds. Fight them one ata
time.

SKILL STAMINA
First MOON DOG 9 10
Second MOON DOG 11 g

If you win, turn to 259.
218—220

218

The Dwarf smiles and extends his arm to you, say-
ing, ‘An enemy of Nicodemus is a friend of mine.
Welcome stranger.’ You tell Wraggins that you do
not know where Nicodemus lives and he explains
that the wizard lives alone in a small hut under
Singing Bridge, which crosses Catfish River to the
old part of the city and harbour. He explains that the
bridge is in the middle of the city and that most
streets lead to it. You thank the Dwarf for his
information and leave his shop to continue west
along Key Street (furn to 300),

219
The larger of the two Trolls tells you that his name is
Sourbelly and it is his duty to track down unwel-
come visitors to Port Blacksand. He looks at the pass
and says, ‘You don’t look much like a merchant to
me. Are you one of those fancy folk who have been
attending the spice sales in Pepper Street?’ If you
wish to answer ‘Yes’, turn to 150, If you wish to
answer ‘No’, turn to 393.

220
The key fits the lock securing the grill enclosing the
glass cupboard. It clicks open and you are able to
take any of the items you wish. You find nothing
else of interest in the shop, so you walk outside and
continue east (turn to 100).

——- -=- ——— tie we

221

The alley is narrow and dark and runs south some
twenty metres before coming toa dead end ata wall.
The Dwarfs are nowhere to be seen. You start
walking slowly back up the alley when suddenly a
large net falls on you from above, It is weighted
and you stumble to the ground, completely en-
tangled. Then you become aware of the three
Dwarfs standing above you, chuckling to them-
selves, Their hands reach through the netting and
you watch helplessly as they rummage through
your backpack. They seem interested only in your
gold. Eventually they walk off and leave you to
wriggle free. You have lost all your gold. Lose 2
LUCK points. Returning to the street, you turn left
and head west (turn to 396),

222
On the right-hand side the houses are separated
from the street by a wooden fence with shrubs,
trees, bushes and flowers behind it. There is a turn-
stile in the middle of the fence, by the side of which
is a sign reading: ‘Public Gardens. Entry Fee 1 Gold
Piece’. If you wish to go into the gardens, turn to
370. If you would rather keep on walking, turn to

133.
223-225

223

Sweat breaks out on your forehead — you choose a
pill and swallow it. Roll one die. [f you roll any
number between 2 and 6, you have chosen a harm-
less pill. The man reaches into a pouch on his cord
belt and hands you 20 Gold Pieces. He then bids you
farewell and tells you to come back soon. You leave
the room and walk back up the alley to Candle Street
(turn to 265). A roll of 1 means you die quickly from
the poisoned pill and your adventure ends here.

224

Sitting on a stool at the back of the shop is an old
bespectacled Dwarf. He is busy cutting a key on a
cast-iron treadle machine which squeaks and
grinds noisily. You cough to get his attention, but he
does not look up from his work, Finally the machine
comes to a halt and the Dwarf asks you what you
want. You may either ask him if he has any skeleton
keys for sale (turn to 66) or ask him if he knows
where Nicodemus lives (turn to 236).

225
Each VAGABOND boasts that he can kill you
singlehanded. They decide to fight you one at a
time,

SKILL STAMINA
First VAGABOND 7 5
Second VAGABOND 6 7
Third VAGABOND 5 6

If you win, turn to 397.
226-228

226
You manage to break free from the pirate’s grip and
draw your sword, You step backwards towards the
door as the PIRATES leap from their bunks to grab
their cutlasses. The room is cramped and you fight
them one ata time.

SKILL STAMINA
First PIRATE 6 6
Second PIRATE 5 4
Third PIRATE 7 4

If you win, turn to 111, You may Escape by backing
out through the door and fleeing from the ship
north up Harbour Street (turn to 78).

227
The street soon makes another sharp turn to the
right and you find yourself walking east. Outside
one of the houses to your left is a pile of rubbish and
broken objects. On top of the pile is a pair of old
boots that look about your size. If you wish to try
them on, turn to 362. If you wish to keep walking
east, furn to 103.

228
The key fits the lock, which clicks. open as you turn
it, You open the door and enter a beautiful marble-
floored hallway. On three of the four walls hang
portraits of evil-looking men and women, bufon the
far wall hang two iron shields. The crest on one is a
tower and on the other a unicorn, A spiral staircase

229-230

leads up from the centre of the hallway to a floor
above. Will you:

Take the shield with the tower

crest? Turn to 125
Take the shield with the unicorn
crest? Turn to 374

Climb the spiral staircase? Turn to 21°

229

As you advance towards him the man swallows the
key and throws the egg at you, Test your Luck. If you
are Lucky, the egg misses you and breaks against a
wall to release a green-coloured gas (turn to 23). If
you are Unlucky, the egg breaks against your chest
and you breathe in some of the green-coloured gas
released (turn to 343).

230
You scratch around in the cracks in the wall and find
a loose stone, The old man watches intently as you
pull the stone out of the svall, Peering into the hole
you see an iron key. You place it in the lock of your
cell and are amazed to feelit turn. Add 1 Luck point.
With the cell door open you put the key back in the
hole in the wall and replace the stone, You leave
your cel] and pick up your sword off the table. Then
you call out to the guards, telling them that you
think they are stupid and that you have seen more
life on a Troll’s breakfast plate than in them. Quickly
provoked, the GUARDS rush down the stairs and
231-234

are surprised to see you waiting for them, sword
drawn. You fight them one ata time,

SKILL STAMINA
First CITY GUARD 6 6
Second CITY GUARD v1 5

If you win, you climb the stairs (turn fo 54).

231
Outside on the landing you may either enter the
black door (turn to 96) or walk back to the stairs to
climb up to the next floor (turn to 197).

232 |
The door opens into a small room, in the centre of
which stands a steaming tub of hot water, If you
wish to hide behind the door inside the room to see
who is about to take a bath, turn to 12. If you would
rather close the door, turn to 383.

233
The sparkling water is refreshing but not as medic-
inal as the small boy claimed. Add 1 STAMINA point
to your total. You shake your fist at the boy in mock

anger, and set off north (turn to 247).

234
The tiny man smiles and says, ‘Ah well, if that’s all
you want, then that's simple enough. He’s on the
fourth floor in the room with the black door." Then
he waves his arms at you and disappears in a small
puff of smoke. You stand up and walk back down

235-237

the stairs to the floor where there are two doors
adjacent to each other on the landing. You breathe
in deeply and turn the handle of the black door (turn

ta 96),

235
You decide not to risk any further possible danger to
yourself and craw! out of the room. You stand up,
walk over to the staircase and climb up to the next
floor (turn to 65).

236

Your question produces a suspicious look on the
face of the Dwarf and he raises one eyebrow. Then
he says, ‘Il know Nicodemus but what do you want
of him?’ You may reply by telling him either that
you are on a mission from Silverton and need the
help of Nicodemus (turn to §7), or that you want to
kill Nicodemus (turn to 218).

237
You rub the jewel in the ring and pointit at the Leaf
Beasts. A blast of fire shoots out of the ring and
burns a large hole in the nearest Leaf Beast. It makes
a whistling cry and backs away. You seize your
opportunity and dash through their broken de-
fence. You run to the turnstile clutching the lotus
and make your escape into Stable Street (turn to

133).

238-239

238
On the right side of the street you see a small
alleyway between two houses, The alley soon ends
ata doorway with six skulls painted on it; one black
and five white. If you wish to walk down the alley
and open the door, turn to 27. If you would rather
continue east, turn to 139,

239
Behind you comes the sound of running feet. You
look round and see a group of town guards chasing
after you. As you stop to think where to run next, a
boy runs out of a house and shouts, ‘Follow me!’
You have no better plan in mind so you run after
him. The boy races down to the bottom of Mill Street
and turns left into Goose Street. He stops at a cart
laden with hay and starts to talk frantically to a
kind-faced old man, saying, ‘Uncle! Uncle! This
brave person killed Sourbelly. We must help him to
escape.” The old man speaks calmly to the boy,
saying, ‘Indeed we owe our friend a favour. Quick,
jump into the cart,’ You climb into the cartand cover
yourself with hay. You lie completely motionless as
you hear the running guards approach. They stop to
speak to the old thatcher, but he sends them run-
ning off down Goose Street. After they are gone he
whispers to you that he will take you to safety. You
hear him climb on to the cart and urge his horse into
a slow trot. The cart bounces noisily along the
cobbled street but you feel comfortable in the hay.
The cart stops and starts a few times, and you hear
questioning voices, About half an hour later the cart
240-241

stops again and the thatcher calls out, “You can
come out now,’ You poke your head out of the hay
and are surprised to see that you are on the edge of a
wood. To the west you can see the daunting shape
of Port Blacksand. You jump out of the cart and
thank the thatcher for his trouble. He says goodbye
to you and wheels his cart round to return to Port
Blacksand. Do you have all the items required to
slay the Night Prince, and have you been tattooed?
If you have, turn to 201. If you are missing any of the
items, or have not been tattooed, turn to 299-

240
The man hands you the gold and puts the gems
under the counter. If you now wish to inquire about
the price of his rings, turn to 36. If you have had
enough of transactions for the time being, you leave
the shop and head west (turn to 196).

241
Inside the shop yau see a tall, thin man with pointed
ears and fair hair, pouring hot wax from an iron pan
into a mould. The candle-maker isan Elf, As he turns
to you to speak, you notice his slanted eyes, which
are ice blue. For some reason they appear very cold
to you. He tells you that all his coloured candles cast
1 Gold Piece each. You may buy as many as you
wish. He then asks you if you would like to see one
of his magic candles in the back room. If you wish to
see one, turn to 63. If you would rather leave the
shop and head east, turn to 280.

242-243

242
The boy hurriedly picks up his barrow and dashes
off, saying he is late for market. You eat an apple but
itis sour. Your stomach starts to hurt and the pain
develops into cramp. You do not feel very well at all.
Lose 1 STAMINA point. You throw the other apples
away and continue west (turn to 307).

243

You have suffered a terrible burn. Lose 5 sTAMINA
points. If you are still alive, you decide to lie stilland
feign death. Behind you the fat man is still chortling
to himself. You hear him walk over to you and then
feel a sharp pain as he kicks you in the ribs. Satisfied
that you really are dead, he walks up the stairs. In
considerable pain, you crawl along the floor to the
door. Without making a sound you crawl outside.
Hauling yourself to your feet you stagger off up the
street (turn to 304).

244-246

244
The Night Prince is paralysed, but not for long. He
can summon unearthly powers to defend himself,
and you must act quickly, What compound will you
rub into his eyes? Will you try:

Hag’s hair and black pearls? Turn tog
Black pearls and lotus flower? Turn to 129
Lotus flower and Hag’s hair? Turn to 337

You enter a large room with brown walls and a
straw-covered floor, There is a musty smell hanging
in the air which reminds you of the dirty old Cave
Trolls that live on the northern borders. In the
middle of the room is a table made from half a barrel
with some roughly made stools round it. A high
archway leads through the room to the back of the
house, from where you hear a low murmuring
voice. If you want to walk through the archway,
turn to 178. If you wish to leave the house and
continue north, turn to 282,

246
As you walk warily down the narrow cobbled street,
you are suddenly confronted by a little old man who
dashes out of one of the houses, He pulls a dirty

247-249

bottle out of a canvas bag. As he speaks, you can’t
help staring at the large wart on his nose, with its
tuft of hair. He smiles and asks if you would like to
pay 2 Gold Pieces for a drink of his wonderful
healing potion. lf you wish to pay fora drink, turn to
98. lf you would rather keep going east, turn to 363-

247
The street makes a sharp tum to the left and con-
tinues west for some distance. Turning the corner,
you are suddenly jumped on by three short, stocky
assailants who were hiding down an alley. Two
grab your legs and one tries to knock you out with a
cudgel. Tesf your Luck. If you are Lucky, you manage
ta duck to avoid the blow (turn to 384). If you are
Unlucky, the cudgel lands heavily on the back of
your head, knocking you unconscious (turn to 134),

248
You ask Ben Borryman if he has any silver arrows
for sale. He replies that he does not, but will make
one for you ata cost of 10 Gold Pieces or two magic
items. [f you can afford his asking price, turn to 85. If
you cannot afford to pay the price, turn to 42.

249
The Serpent Queen‘’s head darts about you very

quickly as she tries to bite you with her poisonous
fangs. She sill be difficult to defeat.

SERPENT QUEEN SKILL 9

[f you win, turn to 295.

STAMINA F
250-251

250

A small bell rings as the door opens and a creature
wearing a brown apron over his clothing hurries
through the archway from the back room into the
shop to stand behind the counter. He appears
human-like but has very ugly facial features and
pointed teeth. You realize he is a crossbreed, half
man, half ore. A sharp hand-axe hangs from his belt
to remind you that Port Blacksand is unlikely to bea
friendly place in which to do business. Will you:

Inquire about the herbs? Turn to 183
Ask if the Man-Orc knows of
Nicodemus? Turn to 342
Attack the Man-Orc? Turn to5
251

One of the small people stops and looks down at
you. He mistakes you for a town guard and calls out
to his accomplices to run for cover. Then he points
a short crossbow at you and fires a bolt. Test your
Luck. lf you are Lucky, the bolt thuds into the ground
at your feet (turn to 269). If you are Unlucky, the
bolt lodges deeply in your shoulder (turn to 330).

252-254

252
The carriage is not going to stop! Suddenly the four
horses, their eyes wide with terror, are almost on
top of you. You must dive to one side to avoid being
run down. Test yotr Luck. If you are Lucky, you
escape injury from the horses as you land in the
gutter (turn to 275). If you are Unlucky, you are
trampled underfoot by one of the horses (turn to

155),

253
The SNAKES are not very tough opponents for a
person trained in the art of swordsmanship. Treat
them as a single creature. However, each Attack
Round that they inflict a wound on you, 4 points
must be subtracted from your sTAMINA score be-
cause of their poisonous bite.

SNAKES SKILL 5

If you win, you may leave the house by the front
door (turn to 75).

STAMINA 5

254

A horrified look spreads across the Vampire’s face
when she sees the clove of garlic in your hand. She
retreats into a corner of the room trying to escape
the pungent smell, which negates her blood-
sucking powers. You back out of the room taking the
key to the door with you, and lock it from the out-
side, You then run over to the staircase and climb
the stairs to the next floor (turn to 310).

255-258

255
The guards eye you suspiciously but let you walk on
after seeing your pass. You walk on quickly north
(turn to 227).

256

The houses on the right-hand side of the street are
small and weather-beaten. Old women sit outside
on the front steps cleaning fish and mending fishing
nets. They are large and jolly, talking to each other
and frequently rolling about, bellowing with laugh-
ter. The fishermen do not appear to be at home. The
street and the quayside come to an end at a great
iron anchor. You turn round and walk back towards
the junction. If you wish to stop to talk with the
women, turn to 320. If you wish to ignore them and
walk straight back to the junction, turn to 369.

257
If you are wearing the Ring of the Golden Eye, turn

to 385. If not, turn to 70.

258
Stepping over the Fire Imp, you walk back to the
stairs to see if its master is stil] in the house. You
descend the stairs slowly, sword drawn, When you
reach the bottom you are somewhat surprised to see
a fat man, richly dressed, sitting in an ornate chair
looking directly at you. He appears very relaxed,
quite unperturbed by your drawn sword. Then he
speaks, slowly and coldly, saying, ‘For killing my
259-260

pet you shall pay with your life.‘ He raises his right
hand in the air and from his outstretched fingers
shoot ragged white bolts of lightning. If you are
wearing an ivory skull around your neck, turn to
318. If you do not have this item, turn to 47.

259
You wipe the blood from your sword and walk to
the wooden door, You try the handle, but it is
locked. If you have a skeleton key, turn to 228.
Otherwise you may either pull on a cord hanging
down in front of the door (turn to 4) or attempt to
charge the door open with your shoulder (turn to

365).

260
The guards take their bribe and let you go. As you
walk north you hear the angry shouts of the cap-
tured murderer behind you. You hurry onin case he
tries to implicate you (turn to 222).

261-264

261

‘This city is ruled by Lord Azzur and he is a mean
man. When you preside over the chaoticinhabitants
of Port Blacksand you have to be mean. And he’s the
meanest. | should warn you that if you are found
without a pass, you are as good as dead. I would get
one if 1 were you, pretty quickly,” He then makes a
sweeping gesture of the arm and you walk past him
into the city (turn to 74),

262
Wiping the foul-tasting soup from your lips with the
back of your hand, you storm out of the house,
leaving the crazy ladies to their argument. Once
outside you set off east again (turn to 375).

| 263
Despite the light from the burning lanterns on the
landing, you are unable to see anything inside the
room; it is completely black. If you have a golden
owl, turn to 153. If you do not, turn to 281.

264
Before you are able to speak a word, the Ogre's
voice booms out, saying, ‘Somebody has stolen all
my food. Will you give me some of yours?’ If you
wish to give the Ogre some of your food, deduct 2
from the Provisions on your Adventure Sheet and
turn to 121. If you wish to refuse his request, turn to

357:
. 2

265-267

, 265

. With your sword still dripping with the blaod of the
Rats you walk further along the tunnel. The ledge
you are walking along is narrow and slippery, and
you have to tread carefully so as not to fall into the
slow-flowing sewage channel. The tunnel gradually
bends round to the right and as you fallow it round,
the silence is suddenly shattered by the sound of
running feet and a wailing scream. Coming straight
at you, wild-eyed, with flailing arms and contorted
face, uttering demon sorcery, is a white-haired old
woman dressed in rags, She is a Hag. Do you pos-
sess a Potion of Mind Control? If you have this item,
turn to 82. If you do not, turn to 390.

266

The Bays on your side are angry with you for
losing the match. Some of their supporters rush
over and start to jostle you. By the time you manage
to drag yourself over to the wall, everyone in the
_ arena seems to have pushed you around. Lose two

items from your backpack. Eventually you climb

back over the wall and walk to the junction to head
_ west along Harbour Street (turn to gz),

267
| The two guards holding you look at each other and
then at the other guard for a decision. He nods at
_ themand they release their grip on you. As you pay
| him the 10 Gold Pieces he gives you a piercing look,
saying, ‘If Lord Azzur finds out that you are in the
city without a pass, you’re as good as dead. And as

268

for Nicodemus, find him yourself,’ Suppressing an
urge to draw your sword, you turn and walk into
the city. Turn to 74.

268

The silk curtains in front of the archway are pulled
aside and a strange creature steps into the room. It
has a snake’s head, which sits oddly on the shoul-
ders of a young woman wearing a lavish gown. Its
mouth operis and a forked tongue darts in and out
as the Serpent Queen starts to accuse you, shouting,
‘l ordered no flowers from Mrs Pipe, and she cer-
tainly would not send any as a gift, What trickery is
this, rogue?’ You start to panic, deciding what to do
next, If you wish to run to the front door, turn to 32.
If you wish to draw your sword to attack the Serpent
Queen, turn to 249.

269-270
269

The little man with the crossbow curses before run-
ning into the building on your left. There does not
appear to be an easy way to catch him, so you walk
under the bridge and continue east (turn to 30).

270
As you draw your sword the innkeeper lets out a
loud whistle. A trap-door behind the bar flies open
and you hear low grunting. An ugly head pops
up through the door and you watch as the large
green bady of a TROLL emerges from a cellar. He is
carrying a wooden club. The innkeeper points at
you and the Troll lumbers slowly round the bar
ssvinging his club in the air, All the tavern’s custom-
ers start to chant, ‘Fight! Fight! Fight!’ and stand up
to form a ring round you and the Troll. You are
forced to fight.

TROLL
If you manage to kill the Troll, turn to 26.

SKILL8 STAMINA S
a a -
i
uM
5

\

vw,

CA

271-273

271
Asleep in their bunks are three pirates, Their room
is small and contains only clothing and a few per-
sonal possessions. It looks as if the pirates have
been drinking and gambling — there is an uncorked
bottle of rum, a mug and a pack of cards on top of a
barrel in the centre of the room. You see that one of
the pirates is wearing a small leather pouch around
his neck. If you wish to creep up and try to cut it
loose, turn to 162. If you would rather close the door
again, and not take any risks, turn to 284.

272
You manage to squeeze yourself between the dead
Centipede and the roof of the tunnel. You walk
further down the tunnel and see that it ends at an
iron grill through which the sewage water runs. If
you wish to try to remove the grill, turn to 377. If you
wish to walk back to the entrance hole, turn to 174.

273
Inspecting the scorpion you see that it is a brooch,
You decide to pin it to your leather tunic. It isa lucky
charm, Add 2 Luck points to your total. What will
you do next? You may, if you have not already done
s0, pick up the silver scorpion (turn to 13), If you
would rather ignore it, you may either climb the
Stairs (turn to 80), or leave the house and head north

(turn to 334)- .
274-277

274

The guards are pleased that you have caught their
wanted man. They tell you that he is an escaped
murderer, The chief guard hands you 5 Gold Pieces,
saying, ‘Here’s your reward. But you won't be
getting another one — he won't escape again.’ You
watch for a short while as they lead the shouting
murderer away, before continuing north along
Stable Street (turn to 222),

275
You stand up and brush yourself down, thinking
that you would like to meet this Lord Azzur another
day. The carriage races out of view and you set off
west again (turn to 171),

276
You tell the guards that you will make it worth their
while if they release you and allow you entry into
the city. How much will you offer them?

Five Gold Pieces? Turn to 109
Ten Gold Pieces? Turn to 267
Fifteen Gold Pieces? Turn to 41

277
You walk quickly over to the staircase and climb up

to the next floor (turn to 207).

278

Although many of the items in the room are ex-
tremely valuable, they are not of much use to you on
your quest. However, something strange catches
your eye. On a mahogany card table lie three up-
turned silver goblets. One is inscribed with the
letter A, another with B and another with C. Will
you:

Pick up goblet A? Turn to 175
Pick up goblet B? Turn to 209
Pick up goblet C? Turn to 43
Walk through the archway? Turn to 107
Climb the stairs? Turn to 60

279

He takes the money and motions you to sitdown on
a wooden stool. After a long and painful process of
repeatedly pricking your forehead with a sharp
needle he applies the indelible inks. You look in a
mirror on the wall and find your new appearance
somewhat strange. You shrug your shoulders and
leave the shop; you then walk back up the lane and
turn left into Mill Street (turn to 307).
20-282

280
Further along the street on the left is another shop.

A sign outside reads Ben Borryman, Silversmith’. IF
‘you wish toenter theshop, turn to243. you would
rather keep going east, turn to 0.

281
Ifyou wish togrope your way into the room, turn to
361. If you wish to walk back to the staircase to climb
to the next floor, turn to 65.

283-285

283

There is nothing useful to be found on the dead
creature, so you decide to press on northwards
(turn to 217),

=

1f you have not done so already, you may either
‘open the other door (turn t0232) or leave the ship to
continue your search of Port Blacksand, walking
north up Harbour Street tum to 78)

282
On the right-hand side of the street you see a large
wooden barrel and a small boy sitting beside it on.a
stool. If you wish to talk to the boy, turn to 439. If
{you wish to keep walking north, turn to 247.

285
‘You make a rapid search through the guards’ pos-
sessions and find 7 Gold Pieces, a set of keys and a
piece of stale bread. Make a note of what you wish to
keep and set off north again (turn to 227),
286-288

286
You point the ring at the advancing Mummy and
rub the jewel, A jet of fire flies out of the ring and the
Mummy is consumed by flames. It drops to the floor
and in a few moments there is nothing left but a few
charred fragments. Turn to 163.

287

The food stalls are selling fruit, vegetables, meat
and hot soup, com and chestnuts for hungry shop-
pers. You may eat some hot food if you wish. Pay 1
Gold Piece and increase your STAMINA by 2 points.
Walking north along the west side of the square you
see a man dressed in purple velvet playing a lyre. If
you wish to stop and listen, turn to 3. If you would
rather walk past him, turn ta 398.

288
Nobody spends a night asleep at Zanbar Bone’s
tower and lives. In the middle of the night a jet of
gas, which poisons you almost immediately, is re-
leased from the headboard on the bed. Then Zanbar
Bone’s witches and servants raise you into an un-
dead world in which you will serve for ever as a
Spirit Stalker, .

Ng)

*

a

289-291

The Man-Orc takes your Gold Piece and spins it in
the air with a flick of the thumb, catching it in the
pocket of his apron. He then starts to pick his teeth
with a sharpened twig and finally says, “I know
nothing about him.’ If you wish to fight the impu-
dent Man-Orc, turn tos. If you would rather contain
your anger, leave the shop and head north again,
turn to 93.

290
You try to walk nonchalantly past the Trolls, but
they suspect something odd about you and call you
over to them. They ask you where you live and you
reply that you are in Port Blacksand on a trading
mission, The Trolls laugh scornfully and ask to see
your pass. If you have a merchant's pass, turn to
219, If you do not, turn to 335,

291
As the guard realizes what you are doing he thrusts
his pike at you. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, he
musses and you are able to nin past him into the city
(turn to 74). If you are Unlucky, the pike pierces
your arm. Lose 2 STAMINA points and turn to 10.
292-293

292
You walk into a lavishly furnished room containing
objets d’art and curios. Standing before you is a
young woman dressed in a black silk gown, She has
long black hair and bright red lips. She smiles and
motions you to sit down in one of the armchairs.
You refuse to sit down, only too aware that she is
one of Zanbar Bone’s servants. She walks towards
you open-armed as though she is about to embrace
you, and when she smiles again, you see two fang-
like teeth which can only belong toa Vampire. If you
have some garlic, turn to 254. If you do not have any
garlic, turn t 210.

293
She explains that she has just picked one of her
golden flowers. There are ten golden petals on the
flower, and you are told that if dipped in dog's
blood, each petal, plucked and thrown on the
ground, will change into a Gold Piece. Mrs Pipe asks
for any magic item, piece of armour or food (two
portions of your Provisions) in exchange for the
golden flower. lf you wish to trade with Mrs Pipe,
make the necessary changes to your Adventure Sheet.
Whether you trade or not, you then leave the shop
and head west (turn to 24)-

294-296

294
At the top of the gangplank stands one of the ship's
crew, On seeing you he draws his cutlass and tells
you to get off the ship. If you wish to walk back
down the gangplank, along the jetty and turn left up
Harbour Street, turn to 78. If you wish to draw your
sword to deal sith this pirate, turn to 386.

295
You sheathe your sword and start to search the
Serpent Queen’s house. You find a brown leather
bag which you pick up and shake. The contents
make a jingling sound. Inside you find 12 Gold
Pieces. Add 1 Luck point. You leave the house and
continue your walk along Stable Street (turn to 333).

:
‘

296
Walking towards you down the street are two men
wearing black robes which cover them completely
except for their eyes, On seeing you they nod at
each other and draw their swords; they are
THIEVES hoping to rob you of your possessions
and you must defend yourself. Fight them one ata
time.

uyl

SKILL STAMINA
First THIEF 7 7
Second THIEF 8 6

If you win, turn to 147.

297-300

There is nothing of use to you in the room. The smell
of the Zombies and the debris is terrible, so you
decide to leave immediately. You walk back to the
Staircase to climb up to the next floor {turn to 207),

298
You feel the effects of poison creeping through
your body. Lose 4 STAMINA points. [f you are still
alive you manage to reach the door to escape (turn

to 75).

299
It would be extremely dangerous for you to enter
Port Blacksand again, especially as many of the
town guards would recognize you. There is nothing
else you can do but to make the long walk back to
Silverton to report that you have failed in your
mission.

300
The street makes a sudden right turn and heads
north. You pass a cluster of small houses and are
aware of unseen people watching you walk by.
Then the door to one of the houses opens and a
small boy dressed in rags runs out and hands you a
piece of paper. Without stopping, he runs off and
disappears round the corner. The paper has a mes-
sage on it which reads ‘Arrows from six bows are
pointed at you. Leave 10 Gold Pieces in the middle
of the street and keep walking.’ If you want to obey
the instruction, make the necessary deduction on
OO OL —

301-303

your Adventnre Sheet, lose 2 LUCK points and turn to
347. If you want to keep walking without leaving the
gold, turn to 137.

301

There is a battle-axe held in the iron-plated glove of
the armour. If you wish to take the battle-axe, turn
to 214. If you wish to push the suit of armour on to
ee floor to make sure it is not a booby-trap, turn to
185,

302
You show the man the two gems. Holding them up
to the light he examines them carefully with a small
magnifying glass, He turns to face you and offers
you 9 Gold Pieces for the tio. If you wish to accept
the offer, turn to 240. If you wish to haggle for a
better deal, turn to 345.

393
You bend over the motionless body of the dead Hag
and you cut off a tuft of her hair with your sword,
You put the hair safely in your backpack and walk
ae down the tunnel to the entrance hole (turn to
104).

304-306

304

You arrive at a four-way junction in the street. The
street leading west is called Key Street and the street
leading east is called Clock Street. Ahead you see
that Market Street continues north and a crowd of
people are walking up it cheering loudly and wav-
ing their arms in the air. You decide to follow them
(turn to 148}.

305
You point the mirror at the Spirit Stalker, but it does
not stop him advancing. Again he manages to touch
your flesh and burn you, Lose 2 staMINA points. If
you are still alive, you may either fire your silver
arrow at him (turn to 189) or fire your Ring of Ice at
him {turn to 382).

306

The two guards look at each other in horror and run
out of the cell up the stairs, screaming ‘Plague!’ at
the top of their voices. Smiling to yourself you walk
calmly out of the cell and pick up your sword off the
table. Upstairs you find that the guards have fled; a
search of the room reveals 2 Gold Pieces and a
merchant's pass to trade in Port Blacksand. Taking
your findings, you move over to the door and creep
outside into the city (turn to 74).

307-310

307
Walking towards you along the street are two huge

guards wearing the black uniform of Lord Azzur. As
they get closer you see that they are Trolls, brutal
mercenaries employed by Lord Azzur as Imperial
Elite Guards. To your right there is a tree which
reaches almost to the top of the city wall. [f you wish
to risk walking past the Trolls, turn to 2go, If vou
wish to climb the tree in order to get over the wall,
turn to 14.

308
There is nothing to be found in the alleyway so you
return to Harbour Street ancl turn left (turn to 180).

You shake the WOLF off your arm and draw your
sword. The wolf snarls and leaps at you again.

WOLF SKILL § STAMINA 5

If you win, turn to 97.

310
You climb up to the third Hoor and see another door
at the end of the landing. If you wish to open the
door, turn to 263. If you wish to climb to the next
floor, turn to 65.

311-312

311
As you start your fight with the GUARD, you see
two more armed men appear from a stone guard-
house by the gate. They draw their swords and
await the outcome of your battle.

CITY GUARD SKILL8

if you defeat the first city guard, you must now fight
the other tivo as a pair. Both will have a separate
attack on you in each Attack Round, but you must
choose which of the two you will fight. Attack your
nominated target as in a normal battle. Against the
other you will throw for your Attack Strength in the
normal way, but you sill not wound him if your
Attack Strength is greater— you must just count this
as though you have parried his blow. Of course if
his Attack Strength is greater, he will have wound-
ed you in the normal way.

STAMINA 7

SKILL STAMINA
CITY GUARD 6 6
CITY GUARD 7 5
If you win, turn to 74.
312

You notice that the Ape Man’‘s left hand is curled
into a fist. You prise open the fingers and find a tiny
gold trinket in the shape of an owl. Jt is a magic
talisman which will allow you to see in the dark,
You place the owl carefully in your pocket and
continue your journey (turn to 217).

313-3415

313
You retrieve your sword from the dead man’s chest
and hurry out of the house. Relieved to be in the

open air again you set off north (turn to 304).

314
You sit down to rest and plan what to do next. As

you slump down on the cold stone floor, you in-
advertently knack over a glass jar you hadn't seen
before, which rolls against the wall and shatters.
From the broken jar a small man some fifteen cen-
timetres high steps out and walks over to you. He
looks up at you with his hands on his hips and ina
barely audible voice says, ‘Thank you very much.
I've been trapped in that infernal jar for the last
hundred years, Now how can I repay you?’ If you
want to ask the whereabouts of Zanbar Bone turn to
234. If you wish to ask if he can heal some of your
wounds, turn to 94.

15

The creature leads yok downstairs to the room
below and asks if you require fortune or good
health. [It takes the gold and silver scorpions out
of their bowls and tells you that they are magic
brooches, Each costs 6 Gold Pieces but you may only
buy one. If you wish fortune, turn to 8, If you wish
good health, turn to 132.
326-319

316
Once again you walk into the tattoaist’s shop and
are greeted by Jimmy Quicktint. He is obviously
pleased that you are back to give him some business
(turn to 279).

327
One of the shops to your left is a candle-maker’s.
There are many different coloured candles burning
brightly in the window. If you wish to enter the
shop, turn to 241. lf you wish to continue east, turn
to 280.

318
The skull somehow attracts and absorbs all the
power of the lightning bolt, leaving vou unharmed.
The fat man is angry but powerless and you are able
to leave the house by the front door. Once outside
you set off north again (turn to 304).

319
You enter a room which is dark and very cold. The
walls and floor are made of rough stone and the
room is empty except for a decorated sarcophagus.
There is a strong musty smell in the air. If you want
to open the sarcophagus, turn to 352. If you wish to
walk outside again, turn to 231.

ae

320-322

320
The jolly fishwives’ plump cheeks are as round and
shiny as red apples. You ask if they own any of the
items you need, but they all frown and shake their
heads together. Then one tells you that there isa tale
that Hags have been seen disappearing down sew-
ers to catch rats for their stew-pots. However, she
has never seen a Hag herself. You decide to leave
the ladies; you then walk back to the junction and
turn left into Clog Street (turn to 216).

321
At the bottom of the ladder you realize, much to
your disgust, that you are standing in a sewer.
There are torches along the tunnel wall, giving a
very dim light, and droplets of water make eerie
sounds as they fall into the sewage water. If you
wish to walk north along the tunnel, turn to 356, If
you wish to walk south, turn to 118.

322

You walk back into the shop; behind the counter
you find a small wooden money box. Inside it are 11
Gold Pieces, which you putinto your backpack. You
decide that it is time to leave the shop and head
north (turn to 93).

323-325

323
The blacksmith looks surprised at your unprovoked
aggression and pulls another red-hot iron bar from
the fire with his gloved hand. He is very angry and
lunges at you with the bar.

BLACKSMITH

If the blacksmith wounds you during any Attack
Round, you must subtract 3 points from your sta-
MINA score because of the burn caused by the iron
bar. If you win, turn to 395-

SKILL9Q STAMINAYG

324
The box shatters and you see two gems, 15 Gold

Pieces and a white silk glove lying amidst the
broken pieces of wood. If you wish to try on the
glove, turn to 89. If you wish to leave the house,
taking only the gems and the gold, and continue
north, turn to 282.

325
You follow the old man through the swinging doors
of the Hog and Frog tavern. He tells you to sit down
at a small table in a corner while he shuffles over to
the bar to buy the drinks, There are several shifty-
looking characters sitting at nearby tables but they
do not seem interested in you, Soon the old man
comes back to the table carrying two wooden mugs
Ce nee ee ee So

326

filled to the brim with cider. Once seated, he opens
his leather bag and places two smal] pots on the
table. He opens one and rubs the white cream in the
pot on his wounds, He smiles and tells you that he is
a chemist by trade and that you should rub some of
the cream on your wounds too. You take his advice
and are surprised to feel the healing effect of the
cream work quickly. Add 5 sTAmMiINA points. After
finishing your drink, you say goodbye to the chem-
ist, leave the tavern and head north (turn to 348).

326
Ahead the alleyway is strewn with rubbish and
discarded possessions, Suddenly you hear grow/-
ing and you see movement amongst the rubbish,
You draw your sword just in time as two WILD
DOGS, each a metre and a half long, leap at you,
Fight both dogs at the same time.

SKILL STAMINA
First WILD DOG 4 4%
Second WILD DOG 4 34

Both dogs will make a separate attack on youin each
Attack Round, but you must choose which of the

3277-328

two you will fight. Attack your chosen dog as in a
normal battle. Against the other you will throw for
your Attack Strength in the normal way, but you
will not wound it if your Attack Strength is greater;
you must just count this as though you have de-
fended yourself against its bite, OF course if its
Attack Strength is greater, it will wound you. If you
win, turn to 184. You may Escape by running back up
the alleyway and turning west into Harbour Street
{turn to 180).

327

You feel like a pincushion and although the pain is
almost unbearable, you manage to stagger on down
the street. Ahead to your right you see the door of
one of the houses opening and a little girl looking
out apprehensively. She beckons you to enter the
house. If you wish to enter the house, turn to 126. If
you wish to continue walking north, turn to 164.

328
You take the silver item out of your backpack and
hand it to the Serpent Queen. She is delighted and
thanks you for delivering it to her. She shows you to
the front door and tips you 2 Gold Pieces. Outside
you set off north along Stable Street (turn to 333}.

—————oo

329

329
The smell by the water's edge is terrible. Above, you
hear the sound of footsteps crossing the wooden
bridge. Built into the foundations of the bridge is a
wooden hut. Drawn curtains obstruct your view
into the hut but you know you are not welcome
when you read the words ‘Keep Out’ painted on the
door in large red letters. You draw in a deep breath
and knock on the door. You hear muttering and the
shuffling of feet and suddenly the door is thrown
open. Before you stands a white-haired old man
with a long beard, wearing long white robes. He
looks at you sternly and says, ‘Explain yourself to
Nicodemus,” You are elated at finding Nicodemus
and tell him about Zanbar Bone’s reign of terror
in the town of Silverton and why Owen Carralif
asked you to find his ald friend to help them.
Nicodemus frowns and salks back inside his hut,
telling you to follow him. He sits down ina rocking
chair and starts to speak in a calm voice. ‘I am old
and tired and wish for no more adventure. | live
here under Singing Bridge in Port Blacksand to
escape the pleas for aid from people fallen on hard
times. Hence no one bothers me, But I do wish to
help my old friend Owen. I will tell you how to
defeat the Night Prince, Zanbar Bone. Listen care-
fully. Remember, you may defeat him only after
sunset. In daylight hours he exists on another
plane. No doubt he will have his servants to protect
him, but should you get past them, you will need
something special to deal with Bone himself, To
protect yourself from his entrancing stare, you must
330

have a white unicorn in a yellow sun tattooed on
your forehead. Normal weapons will not harm him.
First, you must shoot him through the heart with a
silver arrow. This will paralyse him but not kill him.
Then you must quickly rub the ground compound
of black pearl, Hag’s hair and a lotus flower in his
open eyes. With luck, he will decay before you in
seconds. If your arrow misses, I’m afraid you will
die the moment he touches you, The items for the
compound can all be found in Port Blacksand if you
search hard enough. | regret | cannot accompany
you.’ Nicodemus then draws you a map of how
to reach Zanbar Bone’s guarded tower from Port
Blacksand, He stands up, shakes your hand and
wishes you well. You leave his hut, climb the steps
and cross the bridge over Catfish River. Bridge
Street continues north a short distance before end-
ing at a junction. If you wish to walk west down
Harbour Street, turn to 91, If you wish to turn east
down Candle Street, turn to 238.

330

Lose 3 STAMINA points, If you are still alive you
manage with great pain to pull the bolt from your
shoulder. As you bandage your wound the little
man runs off into the building on your left. There
does not appear to be an easy way to catch him so
you walk under the bridge and continue east (turn
to 30).

331~333

334
As you approach the man, he suddenly springs up
and screams at the top of his voice. He produces a
dagger from his ragged clothing and leaps at you.
His wild eyes belong to a man insane or possessed
and you must fight him.

MAD MAN

If you svin, turn to 86.

SKILL 5 STAMINA 5

332
The beggar tips his hat in gratitude and mumbles a
few words. Add 1 Luck point before continuing
west (turn to 124).

333
You soon reach a junction in the street, Stable Street

continues north and to your left you see Tower
Street leading west. You decide to keep going north
(turn to 76).

a 2
es

eee aS

334-336

334
Walking towards you down the street are two town

guards. They stop in front of you and demand to see
your papers. If you possess a merchant's pass, turn
to 255. If you do not, turn to gg.

The Jarger of the two Trolls tells you that you are
under arrest for being in Port Blacksand without
authorization. He tells you that he is feeling gen-
erous, however, and offers you a choice. You can
pay a fine of all the gold in your backpack and be
thrown oul of the city, or spend a year with rats and
cockroaches in a dirty dungeon cell. The other Troll
bursts out laughing, saying, “Generous? Ho! Ho!
Ho! Ah, Sourbelly, you’ve got such a sense of
humour!’ If you wish to pay the fine and be thrown
out of the city, turn to 367. If you wish to resist
arrest, turn to 73.

336

Once inside the shop you realize why the windows
are barred — itis a jeweller’s shop, Standing behind
the glass counter is a huge bald-headed man withan
eye-patch covering his left eye. He gives you a
welcoming smile but the sight of his ugly mouth
with its few black-stained teeth does not inspire
confidence. A large battle-axe hangs conveniently
behind the man to deter any would-be robbers.
On display are several ornate rings inset with
diamonds, emeralds and rubies. The man asks
whether you are buying or selling. Will you:

337-339

Ask the price of the rings? Turn to 36
Offer to sell him gems (if you

have them)? Turn to 302

Attack him with your sword? Turn to 170

3
Congratulations — you have killed Zanbar Bone, the
infamous Night Prince. He decays before your eyes,
becoming nothing more than a small pile of powder
on the floor (turn to goo}.

338
You have just swallowed a Potion of Misfortune.
Reduce your LUCK by 3 points. Hoping for better
luck ahead you set off north again (turn to 105).

339
The man looks at youand smiles, saying, ‘We do not

get many visitors in these parts, buf ] am sure my
master would wish you to have a room for the night.
Do come in.’ He steps back and you follow him into
a beautiful marble-floored hallway. There are por-
traits and shields hanging on the walls and a spiral
staircase leads up to the floor above. He asks you to
follow him up the staircase and offers to carry your
backpack for you, which you allow him to do. You
can see that the staircase winds its way all the way
up to the top of the tower, but the man steps off at
the first floor and walks along the landing toa door,
He opens it and walks into a large room, placing
your backpack on a made-up bed. He tells you that
this is your room for the night and walks out, telling

i

349-341

you that you will meet his master at breakfast. If you
wish to lock the door and go to bed, turn to 288. If
you wish to explore the tower after waiting a few
minutes, turn to 77.

340
Once more you poke the wire inside the lock and
finally it turns. Add 1 Luck point. Raising the tid of
the chest you see, to your delight, 25 Gold Pieces
and a magnificent shield. If you use this shield in
battle, it will increase your Attack Strength by 1
during each Attack Round, You may now either
climb the stairs to the floor above (turn to 60) or
leave the house to head north (turn to 304}.

341
You decide that you are going to have to make a run
for it or risk being put in jail. You take 5 Gold Pieces
out of your backpack and throw them on the floor.
The guards bend down to pick them up and you nin
north as fast as you can. As you run off, the escaped
murderer starts to yell and two of the guards chase

342-243

after vou, In an alleyway to your left you see a large
open barrel which you dive into. You hear the
guards run past but you wait a few minutes before
climbing out of the barrel. You look up and down
Stable Street and all is clear. Once more you set off
north (turn to 222).

342
The Man-Orc tells you that for 1 Gold Piece he will
tell you all he knows, If you want to pay for his
information, turn to 289. lf you would rather leave
the shop and continue your walk north, turn to 93.

343
You fall to the floor, unconscious. Lose 3 STAMINA

points, If you are still alive, you awake to find your-
self lying outside the shop in Clog Street. You will
find that any silver items you had are now missing.
You stand up and set off angrily along the street
(turn to 100),

=
344-347

344
You step out into the middle of the street and wait.
Suddenly a pair of horses come galloping into view
pulling an ornate gold carriage. The driver sees you.
and, cracking his whip, yells, ‘Make way for Lord
Azaur!’ If you wish to step cut of the path of the
‘oncoming carriage, tur to 58, If you wish to stay
where you are, turn to 252.

345
‘Theman frowns and thumps his ist down on top of
the counter, shouting, Thisisnota bazaar! Ifyou do
not like my prices, take your custom elsewhere
Now get out of my'shop before I slice you in two.’
Will you:

Calm him down and accept his offer? Turn to 240
Walk out of the shop and head west? Turn 10196
Attack him with your sword? Tur to70

348
‘The distance to the ground is too great even for a
great warrior like yourself. You land badly and
break your neck. Your adventure ends here,

47
‘You hurry on down the street but glance back after
heating cries of jubilation behind you. Some people
are linked arm in arm and are dancing in a circle
round your 10 Gold Pieces. You curse this thieving
city and press on north (turn to-142).
348-350

348

Tower Street makes a sharp turn to the right, going
east between tall buildings. An iron bridge crosses
overhead between two of the buildings and you see
movement on it. Small cloaked people are carrying
laden sacks between the buildings, apparently in a
great hurry. [f you wish to call out to them, turn to
251. If you wish to walk under the bridge and
continue east, turn to 30.

Suddenly you are confronted by a small winged
creature, no more than a metre in length, hovering
before you. It is red in colour and has two horns
protruding from its head and a small tail hanging
down from its back. It will be difficult to defeat as it
flies quickly about your head spitting fire at you!

FIRE IMP SKILL 9 STAMINA 4

if you win, turn to 258. You may Escape by jumping
out of the window to the street below (turn to 192).

350

You open your backpack and pretend to search for
the flowers. The Serpent Queen starts to fidget and
you can see her becoming increasingly impatient.
You cannot think of a good plan and start to panic. If
you wish to run to the front door, turn to 32. If you
wish to draw your sword to attack the Serpent
Queen, turn to 249.
EE

351-352

351

You take 10 Gold Pieces out of your backpack and
place them on the palm of the hand outstretched
before you. The old man then reaches into his inner
clothing and pulls out aniron key, telling you thatit
will unlock your cell. Almost in disbelief you take
the key and place it in the lock. Incredibly, the lock
turns. You look back at the old man and ask him if
he wishes to escape with you. He smiles and shakes
his head, saying that he is happy where he is. You
leave the cell and, picking up your sword, climb the
stairs to the floor above. The two guards are relaxing
over a game of cards. You wave your sword in the
air and charge at them. They grab their swords to
defend themselves and fight you one ata time.

SKILL STAMINA
First CITY GUARD 6 6
Second CITY GUARD 7 5
If you win, turn to 54.
352

You lift the lid of the sarcophagus and see a
human body completely encased in old bandages.
The light, although dim, has disturbed the sleep of a
MUMMY, anditsits up, turmningits head from side to
side. It senses where you are and starts to climb out
of its sarcophagus. It walks towards you with its
arms extended, If you wish to fight the Mummy,
turn to 193. If you have a Lantern, you may throw it
at the Mummy (turn to 106).

353-354

353
You try to turn the large brass handle on the door
but itis locked. If you have an iron key, turn to 181-
if you do not, you may either try to force the door
open (turn to 389) or return to the street to head
north (turn to 304).

The tattooist looks at you with a bored expression
on his face and says, ‘Well, you don’t expect me to
do it for free, do you? If you've got anything worth
selling, go next door. My step-brother lives there
and he’s a pawnbroker. Tell him | sent you and
maybe he'll give you a good price.’ You walk out-
side and knack on the wooden door of the next
house. A squint-eyed man opens the door and you
tell him that you want to sell some items so that you
can afford to have a tattoo. The man asks you to
come into his house and you enter a room piled high
with all kinds of objects, furniture, armour, curios
and pottery, He explains that he has a stall in the
market which he rents once a week. He then tells
you what he is currently interested in buying, and
the prices he is offering:

Silver goblet 8 Gold Pieces
Skeleton key 15 Gold Pieces
Scorpion brooch 10 Gold Pieces
Magic ring 12 Gold Pieces
Silver bracelet 3 Gold Pieces

anu cuiesy

3557356

Helmet 7 Gold Pieces
Silver flute 5 Gold Pieces
Eye-patch 1 Gold Piece
Knucklebones 1 Gold Piece
Mirror 1 Gold Piece

You may sell the pawnbroker any of your posses-
sions. You bid him farewell and walk outside. If you
have enough money for the price of a tattoo, turn to
316. If you still cannot afford one, you will have to
come back again later. You walk back up the lane
and turn Jeft into Mill Street (turn to 307).

355
You turn on the two guards who were holding you

and, before they realize what is happening. you
smash their heads together, knocking them uncon-
scious. You dash into the city (turn to 74).

356
Ahead you hear the sound of squealing and frantic
splashing. Long shadows are cast by moving ob-
jects coming towards you. Then you see the sleek,
glistening shapes of three GIANT RATS only a
few metres away from you, You draw your siw ord
hastily and fight each of the Rats in turn.

SKILL STAMINA
First RAT 4 4
Second RAT 5 4
Third RAT 5 5

If you win, turn to 28.
357-358

357
The OGRE is mad with hunger and picks up a large
bone off the floor, He raises it above his head and
lumbers towards you. You must fight him.

OGRE SKILLS

If you defeat him, turn to 71. After the third Attack
Round, you may Escape by running out of the house
and heading north (turn to 282),

STAMINA 9

358

It's a close shave, but you just manage to grip the
edge of the wall with your fingertips. You pull
yourself up and climb on to a stone walkway along
the top of the city wali. On either side of you are
stone towers rising above the battlements, spaced
some hundred metres apart. There are doors in
the towers, both of which are suddenly flung open
as more guards run out to capture you, There is a
twenty-metre drop on the other side of the wall,
Will you:

Jump to freedom? Turn to 346
Fix a Climbing Rope (if you have one)

to the wall and climb down the

other side? Turn to 108
Face the oncoming guards? Turn ta 56

we bal eS a
ee” 8 eee

359

359
All the Bays on your side rush over to you and

slap your hands with theirs. They are overjoyed at
their victory. Supporters run overand start handing
you gifts. Eventually you manage to wriggle free
from your admirers and find a place to sit down to
inspect your gifts. You have been given 8 Gold
Pieces, a bottle containing a clear liquid labelled
‘Potion of Mind Control’, a silver flute, a bunch of
bananas, a piece of chalk and an eye-patch. You eat
the bananas (add 2 STAMINA points) and place the
rest of the items in your backpack. You climb back
over the wall before the Bays start another game,
walk back to the junction and head west along
Harbour Street (turn to 91).

360-362

360
During your fight with the Wolf Dogs, Wraggins
runs out of the front of the shop, perhaps to fetch
help. If you wish to stay and search the shop, turn to
123. If you would rather hurry out and continue
west along Key Street, turn to 300.

361
The mindless ZOMBIES step slowly towards you
with their sticks raised in the air, Fight them one ata
time.

SKILL STAMINA
First ZOMBIE 6 6
Second ZOMBIE 6 ”
If you win, turn to 297.
362

The boots fit perfectly and walking about you feel
very sure-footed. They are magic elven boots. Add 1
SKILL point to your total and set off east again (turn
to 103).

-_

363-364

363
In the middle of the street you see a Jarge manhole
cover. If you wish to lift the manhole cover to see
where it leads ta, turn to 48. If you wish to keep
walking east, turn to 205,

364

The gaunt-faced man looks thoroughly miserable.
He sees you and shrinks back, telling you that it is
not worth robbing him because he has no money.
You tell him that you do not wish to rob him but are
seeking an old wizard named Nicodemus, He stares
at you with a surprised expression on his face and
says, ‘For 2 Gold Pieces, I'll tell you where he is.’
You decide to trust the man and pay him for his
information. He pockets the gold and says, ‘You are
standing on top of him! Nicodemus lives in a hut
underneath this bridge.” He throws back his head
and lets out a shrill laugh before hobbling off on
his crutches, obviously pleased with himself. You
shake your head and walk over to the steps that lead
down beneath the bridge (turn to 329).
365-367

365

You charge the door several times before it splin-
ters. Unfortunately, you injure your shoulder in the
process. Lose 1 SKILL point. Through the broken
door you see a thin, pale-skinned man with dark,
hollow eyes, wearing a servant's uniform. Ina cold,
hissing voice he says, ‘Really, do you have to make
such a dramatic entry? Could you not have pulled
the bell cord like everybody else?’ [f you wish to
apologize and tell him that you are a lost traveller,
turn to 339. If you wish to attack him with your
sword, turn to 35.

366

You pay for the smoking mixture and leave the
shop. Outside you pack your pipe with the smaking
mixture and light it, The smoke is dark and tastes
awful. You start to cough and your chest is gripped
by a terrible pain. Lose 2 sTAMINA points. You
are unable to stop coughing, so you sit down on the
street and try to calm down. You slump down
against a wall between two barrels and gradually
the coughing subsides. If you want to go back to the
herbalist to complain, turn to 101. If you would
rather walk north again, turn to 93.

367
The Trolls watch carefully as you open your back-
pack. You give them all your gold except for 1 Gold
Piece which you manage to palm without their
noticing. They then place themselves on either side
of you and march you along Mill Street until you

368-369

reach the city’s North Gate at the junction with
Goose Street, They tell the {vo guards on duty not
to let you back into Port Blacksand. They give you a
forceful boot up the backside and you land spraw!-

_ ing on the dusty road outside. Do you have al] the

items required to slay the Night Prince, and have
you been tattooed? If you have, turn to 201, If you
are missing any of the items, or have not been
tattooed, turn to 299,

368

Looking into a crystal ball, she seems to ga into a
trance. She tells you that you are searching for a
man, a wise man with magical powers. She pauses
for a moment and then draws in a deep breath
before going on to tell you that the man you are
looking for lives in a hut beneath a bridge to the
north. She warns you to be careful when ap-
proaching the man, for he does not welcome stran-
gers. Then she looks away from the crystal ball and
asks you to leave. Her face seems to be hiding
something. Has she seen some dreadful fate await-
ing you? You decide to leave the tent and head north
(turn to 117}.

369
Back at the junction you tum left into Clog Street

and walk eastwards (turn to 216}. =

379-37

370

You place the coin in the slot and walk through the
turnstile. Although the flowers and shrubs are not
outstanding, you are nevertheless surprised that
such a place exists in Port Blacksand. The gardens
are not very large, extending back some sixty metres
to where some houses back on to them, There are
two paths to follow, one of which runs around the
edge of the gardens and one that leads directly into
the centre, where there is some topiary - each shrub
has been cut into the shape of an animal - and you
decide to take a closer look. The path leads into a
small paved area surrounded by the animal-shaped
shrubs. In the middle there is a stone plinth upon
which sits a large earthen bow] containing lotus
flowers! There is a painted sign which reads Do Not
Pick the Flowers’. The gardener is nowhere to be
seen and there is nobody else about. It vou wish to
risk picking one of the flowers, turn to 14. If you
would rather leave the gardens and continue north,
turn to 133.

371
In the back room of the shop vou find a glassjarona
dusty shelf labelled ‘Healing Mixture’. lt you wish
to apply some of it to your wounds (if you suffered
any), turn to 83. [If you would rather continue
searching the shop, turn ta 322

372
The houses in this section of Stable Street consist of
two rows of terraces. They are all made ot

'
-_—
=

Sstormne

f
373-375

apart from one in the middle of the terrace to your
right, which is made of brick and is painted white,
The door is made of oak and a serpent’s head is
carved into it. If you wish to enter the white house,
turn to 131. If you wish to keep walking north, turn

to 333-

373
You grimace as you feel the poison creep up your

arm. Lose 4 STAMINA points and 1 SKILL point. If
you are still alive, you may (if you have not done so
already) lift goblet B (turn to 209) or goblet C (turn to
43). If you have lost interestin the goblets, you may
either walk through the archway (turn to 107) or
climb the stairs (turn to 60)}-

374
The shield was taken froma goodly knight who died
at the hand of Zanbar Bone, It was forged with good
magic. Add 1 SKILL point. You walk over to the
spiral staircase with your new shield and climb to
the floor above (turn to 21).

Eventually the street comes to a dead end ata high
stone wall. There are stone steps leading to the top
of the wall. On the other side of the wall you can
hear grunts, growls and cheering. If you wish to
climb over the wall, turn to go. If you wish to walk
back to the junction and head west down Harbour
Street, turn to 91.

The helmet fits on your head perfectly, as though it
had been specially made for you. It has magse pro-
perties also, and will allow you to add 1 point to all
future dice rolls when computing your Attack
Strength during combat as long as you wear =—edd
1 LUCK point. You set off east again (turn to 162

The iron grill is securely bolted to the buck wall
and you are unable to remove it. However, above
the prill you notice a dark recess where some Srcks
have been removed from the wall. It is too Gark to
see deep inside the recess. If you wish to put your
hand into the dark hole, turn to a2. Lf you wou
rather walk back to the entrance hole, turm to 272

378

Roll one die alternately for yourselt anc tor the
bare-chested man, to represent the canmom-Del pas-
sing between you. Repeat this process umm a7:
thrown, in which case the cannon-bell wall hay
been dropped and the loser must pay the wemmer
Gold Pieces. After finishing the game you walk on
bit further (turn to 52),

f

3797381

379
Lose 2 sTAMINA points. Despite the pain in your

arm you must act quickly to escape the advancing
Suit of Armour, If you wish to open the doorin front
of you, turn to 122, If you wish to run back to the
staircase to climb up to the next floor, turn to 207-

380
Despite its rotten taste, the soup includes herbs
blended in an ancient tradition which are beneficial
to health. Add 4 sTAMINA points. Feeling some-
what revitalized you decide to leave the ladies to
their argument and head east (turn to 375).

381

The guard frownsand says, ‘A likely story, I'm sure.
But I suppose you are just the same as all the rest
inside this city. You may enter at your own peril or
buy my advice for 3 Gold Pieces.’ If you wish to head
straight into the city, turn to 74. If you wish to buy
the guard’s advice, make the necessary deduction
on your Adventure Sheet and turn to 261,

352-354

382

A jet of gas shoots out of the ring and turns to ice on
contact with the Spirit Stalker, covering him com-
pletely. It does not stop him advancing towards
you, but it slows him down. You have time either to
fire your silver arrow at him (turn to 189) or to reflect
his stare in your mirror (turn to 305), as your Ring of
Ice is useless.

383
if you have not done so already, you may open the
other door (turn to 271) or leave the ship to continue
your search of Port Blacksand, walking north up
Harbour Street (turn to 78),

As the cudgel swings through the air above your
head, you punch the Dwarf holding it. He lets outa
scream and drops the cudgel. Feeling his bleeding
nose and seeing the blood on his hand, he screams
again and runs off down the alley, The other two
Dwarfs holding your legs realize that vou are not an
easy Victim and run off after their fellow-robder. It
you wish to chase them down the alley, turn to 221-
If you wish to set off west again, turn to 396,

385
A voice in your mind tells you that the Gaest & an
illusion and does not exist. Also you == Sat tte
black cat is not what you thought it wes Seem pee
stands a black-robed skeleton with cree= Stamsi>
cent eyes, wearing a golden crown om its seal -
Zanbar Bone! Before you have time c mesticin pom
arrow, the Night Prince pulls three teet> ewe es
mouth and throws them on to the floor. Thew es
plode in puffs of smoke and out of them step Sree

SKELETONS armed with swords. eeht Seetp ome at
a time.

SKILL STs
First SKELETON ' -
Second SKELETON s e
Third SKELETON ; >
If you win, turn to 203.

386

The PIRATE seems pleased that vou wist S» fier
him and grins, revealing a toothless ouch sett
unnerves you a little.

PIRATE SKILL 7 Tama >

If you win, turn to 20,

387-390

3
You are now wearing a brooch that slows you down
in combat without your realizing it. Reduce your
SKILL by 1 point. Finding nothing else of interest in
the room you decide to go back down the stairs and
leave the house to head north (turn to 334).

388
You try with all your might to bend the bars secur-
ing the glass cupboard but you are unable to open it.
Finding nothing else of interest in the shop, you
walk outside and continue east (turn to 100}.

389

You push the door with your shoulder with al] your
might. Roll two dice. If the number rolled is less
than or equal to your SKILL score, the door flies
open (turn to 159). If the number rolled is greater
than your SKILL, the door remains firmly shut. You
decide not to risk injury to yourself and walk back to
the street, continuing northwards (turn to 304).

390
The HAG is conjuring a spell which instils terrible
fear in you. Your mind is full of illusions and you
think you are being burned alive with a crowd of
skeletal faces looking on gleefully. You swing your
sword around blindly trying to hack at the faces
laughing at you. Test your Luck. [f you are Lucky, a
swipe from your sword cuts into the Hag (turn to
144). If you are Unlucky, your sword merely cuts
through the air (turn to 59}.

391-392

391
Unbeknown to you, there is a trip-wire across the

doorway at your feet and a crossbow on the wall
opposite, so that as you walk into the room vou
trigger the wire and this releases the crossbow Dealt
straight at you. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky. you
trip over the wire and fall on the floor; the crossSow
bolt flies over your head and through the door (term
to 235). If you are Unlucky, the bolt sinks into your
chest (turn to 142).

392
The creature is outraged that you have stolen ome of
its brooches. It jumps up and you notice smoke
curling up from its nostrils as its fury mounts.
Suddenly a blast of fire shoots from its jaw and &
moves towards you with outstretched claws. The
blast misses you but you must fight the creature

LIZARDINE SKILL 8

As well as following the usual rules of battle, throw
one die every Attack Round for the Lizardine’s
fiery breath. Ona roll of 1, 2 or 3, it burns you for:
point of damage to be subtracted from vour stTaMi-
Na. Ona roll of 4, 5 or 6 you manage to dodge the
blast. You may use your LUCK against-the fire anc
you may Escape by running back down the stairs ame
out of the house to head north (turn to 334). If vow
stay and win the battle, turn to 186.

STAMINAS

393-394

393
You tell the Trolls that you are a weapon-maker and

have been to the market to sell daggers to a stall-
holder there. Sourbelly sneers at you and says,
‘Well in that case you have finished your business in
Port Blacksand. Allow us to escort you to the city
gates.’ If you wish to let them throw you out of the
city, turn to 156. If you wish to attack the Trolls, turn

394
Sitting behind a small table is a plump woman
wearing bright yellow clothes and a shaw! over her
head. She smiles as you enter, bidding you to sit
down, She tells you that a glimpse of the future will
cost you 2 Gold Pieces. If you wish to pay to hear her
predictions, turn to 368. If you would rather carry
on unaided, leave the tent and head north (turn to

117).

395
The blacksmith was a good man. Lose « toes

points. Feeling extremely guilty, you leave the
stable and continue north (turn to 115),

396
On the left side of the street is a flower shop. The

window is filled with exotic and colourful flowers. If
you wish to enter the shop, turn to 145. If you preter
to keep walking west, turn to 24,

397
No wonder the vagabonds wanted to ro sem -

they only have 1 Gold Piece between them. Yow ima
nothing else of interest in their pockets and se
decide to set off north along Stable Street (car =
372),

ee

=o — — ee

398
A small circle of people is standing around ® ham
chested man. He is enormous and his muscles se
as hard as iron. He is asking the crowd toc 2 wattle
teer to play catch with a cannon-ball, He stames sina
whoever drops the cannon-ball must pay theaters
Gold Pieces. If you wish to take him on at t+ Game.
turn to 378. If you would rather walk on, tuzm Seg=

A rope ladder hangs down from the stern of tnesmmp
to the jetty. There is also a gangplank leacene um ie
side of the ship, If you wish to board the stp De
climbing the rope ladder, turn to 87. lt vou »essn m@
walk straight up the gangplank, turn to sae
400

4oo

You leave Zanbar Bone’s black tower as quickly as
you can, not wishing to spend another moment in
the infernal place, Before leaving, however, you set
it alight so that no evil entity may ever again use it
for foul deeds. You sleep the rest of the night and
long into the next morning in a hayfield, before
setting off for Silverton in the afternoon. Battle-
weary and hungry, you arrive in Silverton the same
evening. You are given a hero's welcome and gift
after gift is bestowed upon you. A feast is arranged
and there is laughter, music and drinking in all the
streets, Finally, Owen Carralif makes a speech and
presents you with a gold orb worth hundreds of
Gold Pieces. The people of Silverton are joyous once
again.

