lan Livingstone

iN

A thrilling fantasy adventure in which YOU
are the hero! Complete with combat system
and score sheet,

Part story, part game, this is abook with
aditierende one in which YOU become

thy hero!

Down in the twisting labyrinth of Fang,
unknown horrors await you. Counties
adventurers before you have taken up
the challenge of the Trial of Champions,
but not one has survived. Devised by the
devilish mind of Baron Sukumvit, the
labyrinth is riddled with fiendish traps
and hidvous creatures of darkness to
trick and test you almost beyond the
limits of endurance!

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all
you need to make vour journey. YOU
decide which route to follow, which
dangers to risk and which mansters to

fight.

FIGHTING FANTASY GAMEBOOKS

1 The Warlock of Firetop Mountain
2 The Citadel of Chaos
3 The Forest of Doom
4 Starship Traveller
5 City of Thieves
6 Deathtrap Dungeon
7 Island of the Ligand King

—— me

upssuny] Geyineag ANOILSONIATI NVL-

ACTING
NTS ¥
" GAMEAOGR
>

PUFFIN BOOKS
DEATHTRAP DUNGEON

Down in the dark, twisting labyrinth of Fang, unknown
horrors await you. Devised by the devilish mind of Baron
Sukumvit, the labyrinth is riddled with fiendish traps and
bloodthirsty monsters, which will test your skills almost
beyond the limit of endurance. Countless adventurers
before you have taken up the challenge of the Trial of
Champions and walked through the carved mouth of the
labynnth, never to be seen again. Do YOU dare enter?

Tempted by the promise of a fabulous prize — and the lure
of the unbeaten challenge - YOU are one of six seasoned
fighters prepared to take on the labyrinth. Only one of you
may win through - the rest will perish. But which of you
will it be?

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you need to embark
on this thrilling adventure of sword and sorcery, complete
with its elaborate combat system and a score sheet to record
your gains and losses

Many dangers lie ahead and your success is by no means
certain. Powerful adversaries are ranged against you and
often your only choice is to kill or be killed!

Other Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks published in Puffin
are: The Warlock of Firetop Mountain, The Citadel of Chaos, The
Forest of Doom, Starship Traveller, City of Thieves and Island of
the Lizard King,

Ian Livingstone

Illustrated by lain McCaig

Puffin Books
Puffin Books, Penguin Books Ltd, Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England
Penguin Books, go West 23rd Sirect, New York, New York 10010, US A
Penguin Books Australia Ltd, Ringwood, Victoria, Austraha
Penguin Books Canada Lrd, 2801 John Screet, Markham, Onrario, Canada L3Rr 1Bq4
Penguin Books (N Z } Lid, 182-190 Wairau Road, Auckland 10, New Zealand

Firsc published 1984
Reprinted 1984

Copyneghbt € Ian Livingstone, 1984
Illustrations copyright © Iain McCaig, 1984
All rights reserved

Printed and bound in Greac Rrtain by
Cox & Wyman Lid, Reading
Set in 11/13 pc Linotron Palaano by
Rowland Phototypeseuing Ltd
Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk

Except in the Unired States of America,
this book is sold subject to the condirion
that it shall not, by way of crade or otherwise,
be lent, re-sold, hired ouc, or otherwise circulared
withour che publisher's prior consent in any form of
binding or cover other chan thar in which ir is
published and withourc a similar condition
including this condition being imposed
on the subsequent purchaser

For Jacques and Octavie Gelaude
CONTENTS

HOW TO FIGHT THE CREATURES OF
DEATHTRAP DUNGEON

9
EQUIPMENT AND POTIONS
16
HINTS ON PLAY
17
ADVENTURE SHEET
Bas)

BACKGROUND
20
DEATHTRAP DUNGEON
29
HOW TO FIGHT THE CREATURES
OF DEATHTRAP DUNGEON

Before embarking on your adventure, you must first
determine your own strengths and weaknesses.
You have in your possession a sword and a back-
pack containing provisions (food and drink) for the
trip. You have been preparing for your quest by
training yourself in swordplay and exercising vigor-
ously to build up your stamina.

To see how effective your preparations have been
you must use the dice to determine your initial
SKILL and STAMINA scores. On pages18—19 there is
an Adventure Sheet which you may use to record the
details of an adventure. On it you will find boxes for
recording your SKILL and STAMINA scores.

You are advised to either record your scores on the
Adventure Sheet in pencil, or make photocopies of
the page to use in future adventures.

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter this
tota! in the SKILL box on the Adventure Sheet

Roll both dice. Add 12 to the number rolled and
enter this total in the STAMINA box.
There is also a LUCK box. Roll one die, add 6 to this
number and enter this total in the LUCK box.

For reasons that will be explained below, skILL,
STAMINA and LUCK scores change constantly dur-
ing an adventure. You must keep an accurate record
of these scores and for this reason you are advised
either to write small in the boxes or to keep an eraser
handy. But never rub out your Initial scores.
Although you may be awarded additional SKILL,
STAMINA and LUCK points, these totals may never
exceed your Initial scores, except on very rare occa-
sions, when you will be instructed on a particular
page.

Your SKILL score reflects your swordsmanship and
general fighting expertise; the higher the better.
Your STAMINA score reflects your general con-
stitution, your will to survive, your determination
and overall fitness; the higher your STAMINA score,
the longer you will be able to survive. Your Luck
score indicates how naturally lucky a person you
are. Luck —- and magic —are facts of life in the fantasy
kingdom you are about to explore.

Battles

You will often come across pages in the book which
instruct you to fight a creature of some sort. An
option to flee may be given, but if not — or if you
choose to attack the creature anyway — you must
resolve the battle as described below.

10

First record the creature’s SKILL and STAMINA
scores in the first vacant Monster Encounter Box on
your Adventure Sheet. The scores for each creature
are given in the book each time you have an en-
counter.

The sequence of combat is then:

1. Roll both dice once for the creature. Add its
SKILL score. This total is the creature’s Attack
Strength.

. Roll both dice once for yourself. Add the number
rolied to your current SKILL scere, This total is
your Attack Strength.

3. If your Attack Strength is higher than that of the

creature, you have wounded it. Proceed to step
4. If the creature’s Attack Strength is higher than
yours, it has wounded you. Proceed to step 5. If
both Attack Strength totals are the same, you
have avoided each other’s blows — start the next
Attack Round from step 1 above.

4. You have wounded the creature, so subtract 2
points from its STAMINA score. You may use
your LucK here to do additional damage (see
over).

5. The creature has wounded you, so subtract 2
points from your Own STAMINA score. Again
you may use LUCK at this stage (see over).

6. Make the appropriate adjustments to either the
creature’s or your own STAMINA scores (and
your LUCK score if you used LUCK — see over).

7. Begin the next Attack Round by returning to
your current SKILL score and repeating steps

lv

il
1-6. This sequence continues until the sTAMINA
score of either you or the creature you are
fighting has been reduced to zero (death).

Escaping

On some pages you may be given the option of
running away from a battle should things be going
badly for you. However, if you do run away, the
creature automatically gets in one wound on you
(subtract 2 STAMINA points) as you flee. Such is the
price of cowardice. Note that you may use LUCK on
this wound in the normal way (see below). You may
only Escape if that option is specifically given to you
on the page.

Fighting More Than One Creature

If you come across more than one creature in a
particular encounter, the instructions on that page
will tell you how to handle the battle. Sometimes
you will treat them as a single monster; sometimes
you will fight each one in turn.

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either in
battles or when you come across situations in which
you could either be lucky or unlucky (details of
these are given on the pages themselves), you may
call on your luck to make the outcome more favour-

12

able. But beware! Using luck is a risky business and
if you are unlucky, the results could be disastrous.

The procedure for using your luck is as follows: roll
two dice. If the number rolled is equal to or less than
your current LUCK score, you have been lucky and
the result will go in your favour. If the number
rolled is higher than your current LUCK score, you
have been unlucky and you will be penalized.

This procedure is known as Testing your Luck. Each
time you Test your Luck, you must subtract one point
from your current LUCK score, Thus you will soon
realize that the more you rely on your luck, the more
risky this will become.

Using Luck im Battles

On certain pages of the book you will be told to Test
your Luck and will be told the consequences of your
being lucky or unlucky. However, in battles, you
always have the option of using your luck either to
inflict a more serious wound on a creature you have
just wounded, or to minimize the effects of a wound
the creature has just inflicted on you.

If you have just wounded the creature, you may Test
your Luck as described above. If you are lucky, you
have inflicted a severe wound and may subtract an
extra 2 points from the creature’s STAMINA score.
However, if you are unlucky, the wound wasa mere
graze and you must restore 1 point to the creature's
STAMINA (i.e. instead of scoring the normal 2 points
of damage, you have now scored only 1).

13
If the creature has just wounded you, you may Test
your Luck to try to minimize the wound. If you are
lucky, you have managed to avoid the full damage
of the blow. Restore 1 point of STAMINA (i.e. instead
of doing 2 points of damage it has done only 1). If
you are unlucky, you have taken a more serious
blow. Subtract 1 extra STAMINA point.

Remember that you must subtract 1 point from your
own LUCK score each time you Test your Luck,

Restoring Skill, Stamina and Luck
Skill

Your SKILL score will not change much during your
adventure. Occasionally, a page may give instruc-
tions to increase or decrease your SKILL score. A
Magic Weapon may increase your SKILL, but re-
member that only one weapon can be used ata time!
You cannot claim 2 SKILL bonuses for carrying two
Magic Swords. Your SKILE score can never exceed
its Initial value unless specifically instructed. Drink-
ing the Potion of Skill (see later) will restore your
SKILL to its Initial level at any time.

Stamina and Provisions

Your STAMINA score will change a lot during your
adventure as you fight monsters and undertake
arduous tasks. As you near your goal, your sTAM-
INA level may be dangerously low and battles may
be particularly risky, so be careful!

14

Your backpack contains enough Provisions for ten
meals. You may rest and eat at any time except
when engaged in a Battle. Eating a meal restores 4
STAMINA points. When you eat a meal, add 4 points
to your STAMINA score and deduct 1 point from
your Provisions. A separate Provisions Remaining
box is provided on the Adventure Sheet for recording
details of Provisions. Remember that you have a
long way to go, so use your Provisions wisely!

Remember also that your STAMINA score may never
exceed its Initial value unless specifically instructed
on a page. Drinking the Potion of Strength (see
later) will restore your STAMINA to its Inifial level at
any time.

Luck

Additions to your LUCK score are awarded through
the adventure when you have been particularly
lucky. Details are given on the pages of the book.
Remember that, as with SKILL and STAMINA, YOUT
LUCK score may never exceed its Initial value unless
specifically instructed on a page. Drinking the
Potion of Fortune (see later) will restore your LUCK
to its Initial level at any time, and increase your
Initial LUCK by 1 point.

15
EQUIPMENT AND POTIONS

You will start your adventure with a bare minimum
of equipment, but you may find or buy other items
during your travels. You are armed with a sword
and are dressed in leather armour. You have a
backpack to hold your Provisions and any treasures
you may come across. :

In addition, you may take one bottle of a magical
potion which will aid you on your quest. You may
choose to take a bottle of any of the following:

A Potion of Skill - restores skILL points

A Potion of Strength — restores STAMINA points

A Potion of Fortune — restores LUCK points and
adds 1 to Initial LUCK

These potions may be taken at any time during your
adventure (except when engaged in a Battle). Tak-
ing a measure of potion willrestore SKILL, STAMINA
or LUCK scores to their Initia! level {and the Potion of
Fortune will add 1 point to your Initial LUCK score
before LUCK is restored).

Fach bottle of potion contains enough for one mea-
sure, i.e. the characteristic may be restored once
during an adventure. Make a note on your Adven-
ture Sheet when you have used up a potion.

Remember also that you may only choose one of the
three potions to take on your trip, so choose wisely!

16

HINTS ON PLAY

There is one true way through Deathtrap Dungeon
and it will take you several attempts to find it. Make
notes and draw a map as you explore — this map will
be invaluable in future adventures and enable you
to progress rapidly through to unexplored sections.

Not all areas contain treasure; many merely contain
traps and creatures which you will no doubt fall foul
of. There are many ‘wild-goose chase’ passages and
while you may indeed progress through to your
ultimate destination, it is by no means certain that
you will find what you are searching for.

It will be realized that entries make no sense if read
in numenical order. It is essential that you read only
the entries you are instructed to read.-Reading other
entries will only cause confusion and may lessen the
excitement during play.

The one true way involves a minimum of risk and
any player, no matter how weak on initial dice rolls,
should be able to get through fairly easily.

May the luck of the gods go with you on the adven-
ture ahead!

17
ADUENCURE SHEE

TER ENCOUNTER BOXES

SKILL STAMINA |] LUCK i ‘Skil
Initia a) a) ‘toning — |) Stamina =
Shi Sami ieke=

TTEMS OF, Sk i Stil =
EQUIPMENT

siamiw= || Stanin= — } Stamina =
CARRIED

JEWEES

Stamina — |) Stamina =

PROVISIONS
REMAINING

‘SKil= Skill =

nea

BACKGROUND

Despite its name, Fang was an ordinary small town
in the northern province of Chiang Mai. Situated on
the banks of the River Kok it made a convenient
stopover for river traders and passengers through-
out most of the year. A few barges, rafts and
sometimes even a large sailboat could usually be
found moored at Fang. But all that was long ago,
before the creation of the Trial of Champions. Now
once a year the river is crammed with boats as
people arrive from hundreds of miles around, hop-
ing to witness the breaking of an ancient tradition in
Fang and see a victor in the Trial of Champions.

On 1 May each year, warriors and heroes come to
Fang to face the test of their lives. Survival is unlike-
ly, yet many take the risk, for the prize is great ~ a
purse of 10,000 Gold Pieces and the freedom of
Chiang Mai forever, However, to become Cham-
pion is no easy task. Some years ago, a powerful
baron of Fang called Sukumvit decided to bring:
- attention to his town by creating the ultimate con-
test. With the help of the townspeople, he con-
structed a labyrinth deep in the hillside behind
Fang, from which there was only one exit. The
labyrinth was filled with all kinds of deadly tricks
and traps and loathsome monsters. Sukumvit had
designed it in meticulous detail so that anybody
hoping to face its challenge would have to use their

20

wits as well as weaponskill. When he was finally
satisfied that all was complete, he put his labyrinth
to the test. He picked ten of his finest guards and,

fully armed, they marched into the labyrinth. They
were never seen again. The tale of the ill-fated
guards soon spread throughout the land, and it was
then that Sukumvit announced the first Trial of
Champions. Messengers and news-sheets carried
his challenge - 10,000 Gold Pieces and the freedom
of Chiang Mai forever to any person surviving the
perils of the labyrinth of Fang. The first year, seven-
teen brave warriors attempted ‘The Walk’, as it later
came to be known. Not one reappeared. As the
years passed and the Trial of Champions continued,
it attracted more and more challengers and spec-
tators. Fang/prospered and would prepare itself
months in advance for the spectacle it hosted each
May. The town would be decorated, tents erected,
dining-halls built, musicians, dancers, fire-eaters,
ilusionists and every sort of entertainer hired, and
entries registered from hopeful individuals intent
on making ‘The Walk’. The last week of April found
the people of Fang and its visitors in wild cel-
ebration. Everybody sang, drank, danced and
laughed until day broke on 1 May, when the town
thronged to the gates of the labyrinth to watch
the first challenger of the year step forward to face
the Trial of Champions.

Having seen one of Sukumvit’s challenges nailed to
a tree, you decide that this year you will attempt
‘The Walk’. For the last five years you have been

21
attracted to it, not for the rewards, but for the simple
fact that nobody has ever yet emerged victorious
from the labyrinth. You intend to make this the year
in which a Champion is crowned! Gathering up a
few belongings, you set off immediately. Two days’
walk takes you west to the coast, where you enter
the cursed Port Blacksand. Wasting no time in that
city of thieves, you buy your passage ona small boat
sailing north to where the River Kok meets the sea,
and from there you take a raft up-river for four days,
until finally you arrive in Fang.

The Trial begins in three days’ time, and the townis
in an almost hysterical mood of excitement. You
register your entry with the officials and are given a
violet scarf to tie around your arm, informing every-
one of your status. For three days you enjoy Fang’s
greatest hospitality and are treated like a demigod.
During the long merriment, you almost forget your
purpose in Fang; but the evening before the Trial,
the magnitude of the task ahead begins to dominate
your thoughts. Later, you are taken to a special
guest-house and shown to your room. There is a
splendid four-poster bed with satin sheets to help
you rest. But there is little time left for sleep.

Just before dawn a trumpet call awakens you from
vivid dreams of flaming pits and giant black spiders.
Minutes later, there is a knock on your door, and a
man’s voice rings out saying, ‘Your challenge be-
gins soon. Please be ready to leave in ten minutes.’
You climb out of bed, walk over to the window and
open the shutters. Already people are thronging the

22

streets, moving quietly through the morning mist —
spectators on their way to the labyrinth no doubt,
hoping to find good vantage points from which to
watch the competitors. You turn away and walk
over to a wooden table on which your trusty sword
hes. You pick it up and cut the air with a mighty
sweep, wondering what beasts its sharp edge may
soon have to meet. Then you open the door into the
corridor. A small man with slanted eyes greets you
with a low bow as you emerge from your bedroom.
‘Please follow me,’ he says. He turns to his left and
walks quickly towards the stairs at the end of the
corridor. |
f

Leaving your guest-house, he darts down narrow
alleyways between housef, and you have to walk
quickly to keep up with him. Soon you come into a
wide dirt road lined with cheering crowds. When
they see your violet scarf, they cheer even louder
and start showering you with flowers. The long
shadows cast by the people in front of you shrink
as the bright yellow sun rises higher in the morn-
ing sky. Standing there in front of the noisy and
vibrant crowd, you feel strangely alone, aware
of your coming ordeal. Suddenly you feel a tug on
your shirt and see your small guide eagerly beckon-
ing you to follow him. Ahead you see the looming
hillside and the dark mouth of a tunnel disappear-
ing into its inner depths. As you get closer, you
notice two great stone pillars on either side of the
tunnel entrance. The pillars are covered with ornate
carvings: writhing serpents, demons, deities, each

23
seeming to scream a silent warning to those who
would pass beyond them.

You see Baron Sukumvit himself standing by the
entrance, wailing to greet the contenders in the Trial
of Champions. You count five others standing
proudly in line, their violet scarves displayed for
all to see. There are two bare-chested Barbarians
dressed in furs. They stand completely motionless,
legs straight and slightly apart, arms thrust forward
to rest on the hilts of their long, double-headed
battleaxes. A sleek, elven woman with golden hair
and feline green eyes is adjusting the cross-belt of
daggers wrapped around her leather tunic. Of the
two remaining men, one is covered from head to
foot in iron-plate armour with a plumed helmet and
a crested shield; the other is cloaked in black robes,
omy his dark eyes showing between the swathes of
his black face-scarves. Long knives, a wire garrotte

and other silent death-weapons hang from his belt. -

The five contenders acknowledge your arrival with
almost imperceptible nods of the head, and you
turn to face the exultant crowd for the last time.
Suddenly a hush falls over the crowd as Baron
Sukumvit steps forward holding six bamboo sticks.
You draw one from his outstretched hand and read
the word ‘Fifth’. Then the Trial begins.

25

™~,
The Knight is first. He salutes the crowd before
disappearing into the tunnel, and is followed half an
hour later by the elf. Next goes a Barbarian and then
the dark assassin. Now it is your turn to salute the
crowd. Holding your violet scarf aloft, you take one
final deep breath of cool fresh air before turning to
pass between the stone-pillared gateway into
Sukumvit’s corridors of power, to face unknown
perils on ‘The Walk’ through the mighty baron’s
Deathtrap Dungeon.

NOW TURN OVER
1
The clamour of the excited spectators gradually
fades behind you as you venture deep into the
gloom of the cavern tunnel.

Large crystals hang from the tunnel roof at twenty-
metre intervals, radiating a soft light, just enough
for you to see your way. As your eyes gradually
become accustomed to the near darkness, you begin
to see movement all around. Spiders and beetles
crawling up and down the chiselled walls disappear
quickly into cracks and crevices as they sense your
approach; rats and mice scurry along the floor ahead
of you. Droplets of water drip into small pools with
an eerie plopping sound which echoes down the
tunnel, The air is cold, moist and dank. After walk-
ing slowly along the tunnel for about five minutes,
you arrive at a stone table standing against the wall
to your left, On it there are six boxes, one of which
has your name painted on its lid. Ifyou wish to open
the box, turn to 270. If you prefer to continue
walking north, turn 'to 66.

2
The Scorpion manages to hold you in its pincers
long enough to flick its segmented tail forward over
its head and sting you with its poisonous barb. The
effect is fatal and you slump to the ground in the
Arena of Death, wondering whether Throm will
win through.
3-5

3

The Gnome shakes his head and says, ‘I am afraid
you have failed the Trial of Champions. Baron
Sukumvil’s Deathtrap Dungeon will keep its secrets
for another year, as you will not be allowed to leave
here. You are appointed my servant for the rest of
your days, to prepare and modify the dungeon for
future contestants. Perhaps in another life you will
succeed .. .’

In the total darkness you do not see the pipe’s
downward turn. You slip and, unable to get a grip
on the slimy pipe, slide over the edge. Your screams
echo down the pipe as you fall the fifty metres to the
bottom. You have failed the Trial of Champions.

You crawi along the floor and find yourself in the
lair of a tribe of TROGLODYTES. As you creep
past them, your scabbard bangs against a rock on
the floor. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to
185. If you are Unlucky, turn to 395.

6-8

6

Knowing that the Manticore will fire the spikes in its
tail at you, you run for cover behind one of the
pillars. Before you reach it, a volley of spikes flies
through the air and one of them sinks into your arm.
Lose 2 STAMINA points. If you are still alive, you
waste no time and attack the Manticore with your
sword before it has time to unleash more of its
deadly spikes.

MANTICORE
If you win, turn to 364.

SKILL 11 STAMINA I1

Before you have time to reach a doorway, the boul-
der is upon you. You cry out in pain and terror as it
crushes you to the floor. Your adventure ends here.

8

The Mirror Demon grabs you by the wrist. Im-
mediately it starts to pull you towards the mirror. Its
strength is incredible, and, despite ail your efforts,
you cannot prevent it from pulling you relentlessly
towards the mirror. When it touches the mirror, it
seems to disappear straight through it. With horror
you see your own arm disappear, followed by the
rest of your body. You are now in a mirror world
of another dimension, from which you can never
return.
9-10

The Hobgoblins have nothing of any use to you on
them, so you decide to open the bag on the floor.
Inside you find a corked earthenware jug. You
uncork it and sniff the liquid inside. It smells sharp
and acrid. If you wish to drink some of the liquid,
turn to 158. [f you wish to dip a piece of cloth in it,
furn to 375.

10

Still running as fast as you can, you reach into your
backpack and puil out the wooden tube. You plan to
lie under the surface of the water, breathing
through the tube. With luck, the Troglodytes will
assume that you will be swept to your death down-
river as the torrent disappears into the depths of the
mountain. You seize the tube between your teeth
and lower yourself into the water. Holding on to
one of the underwater bridge pillars, you keep
perfectly still for ten minutes. When you finally
think the Troglodytes have gone, you rise to the

10-11

surface and look around. There is nobody to be
seen, so you climb out of the river and cross the
bridge to the northern bank. Any remaining Provi-
sions you may have are now sodden and inedible.
Cross them off your Adventure Sheet. You continue
to walk through the vast cavern until at last you see
a tunnel in the far wall. You walk down it until you
come to a heavy wooden door, which is locked. If
you have an iron key, turn to 86. If you do not havea
key, turn to 276.

11

You look down and see the crumpled bodies of the
Flying Guardians lying motionless on the floor. You
start to prise out the idol’s emerald eye with the tip
of your sword. At last it comes free, and you are
surprised by its weight. Hoping that it may be of use
later, you put it in your backpack. If you now wish
to prise out the right eye, turn to 140. If you would
rather climb down the idol, turn to 46.
12-13

12
The door opens into a large, candle-lit room filled
with the most extraordinarily lifelike statues of
knights and warriors. A white-haired old man
dressed in tattered rags suddenly jumps out from
behind one of the statues and starts to giggle.
Though he looks like a fool, the sparkle in his eyes
makes you think there is more to him than is appa-
rent. In a high-pitched voice he says, ‘Oh good,
another stone for my garden. I’m glad you have
come to join your friends, Now, I’m a fair man and
so f’llask you a question. If you answer correctly, I’
let you go free — but if your answer is wrong, I'll turn
you to stone!’ He starts to chuckle again, obviously
pleased with your arrival. Will you:

Wait for his question? Turn to 382

Attack him with your sword? Turn to 195

Make a run for the door? Turn to 250
13

The tunnel makes a sudden turn to the left and
heads north for as far as you can see. The footprints
you are following start to peter out as the tunnel
becomes gradually drier. Soon you are beyond the
dripping roof and the pools on the floor. You notice
the air becoming hotter and you find yourself pant-
ing even though you are walking quite slowly. Ina
small recess on the left-hand wall you see a section
of bamboo standing on its end. Lifting it down, you
see it is filled with a clear liquid. Your throat is
14-15

painfully dry and you feel a little dizzy from the heat
in the tunnel, If you wish to drink the liquid, burn to
147, If you do not want to risk drinking the liquid
and would rather continue north, turn to 182,

14
The tunnel leads into a dark chamber covered in
thick cobwebs. Clawing your way through them,
you trip over a wooden casket. If you wish to try to
open the casket, turn to 157. If you would rather
continue north, turn to 310.

45
A tickling sensation runs down your spine as you
craw! carefully out of the room. Back in the tunnel
you heave a sigh of relief, throw the skull back into
the room and slam the door shut, Pleased with your
good fortune, you set off west once again. Turn to

74.

16-17

16

You just have time to hear the Gnome say, “Three
skulls’ before a white bolt of energy shoots out from
the lock into your chest, knocking you unconscious.
Roll one die, add 1 to the number and reduce your
STAMINA by the total. If you are still alive, you come
to and are told by the Gnome to try again. You chose
the wrong gems last time, so you won't try that
combination again.

A B Cc

Emerald Diamond Sapphire Tum to 16
Diamond Sapphire Emerald Turn to 392
Sapphire Emerald Diamond Turn to 177
Emerald Sapphire Diamond Turn to 287
Diamond Emerald Sapphire Turn to 132
Sapphire Diamond Emerald Turn to 249

coi!

You are not strong enough to force open the heavy
door. The water is now waist-high and you are
exhausted from your efforts. The water level rises
quickly and you find yourself floating ever upwards
until your face is pressed against the ceiling. You are
soon completely immersed and unable to hold your
breath any longer. Your adventure ends here.
18-21

18
Luckily for you, the cobra’s fangs sink into your
leather wristband. The snake recoils quickly, ready
to strike again, as the Dwarf tells you to have
another try. Roll two dice. If the total is the same as
or less than your SKILL, turn to 55. If the total is
greater than your SKILL, turn to 202.

19
You cannot resist the Medusa’s beguiling gaze as
she looks into your eyes. You feel your limbs begin
to stiffen and you panic helplessly as you turn to
stone. Your adventure ends here.

20
Only your incredible strength could withstand
the poisonous spider’s bite. However, you are
weakened and you notice your hand trembling as
you pocket the Gold Piece. Reduce your skILt by 1
point. You curse the person who dropped the back-
pack and set off north again. Turn to 279.

21
The wound has had no effect on the Bloodbeast, and
it continues to attack you as furiously as before.
Continue your combat and as soon as you win your
next Attack Round, Test your Luck. Ifyou are Lucky,
turn to 97. If you are Unlucky, turn to 116.

22

Although you are slightly uneasy in each other’s
company, knowing that there can only be one win-
ner in the Trial of Champions, you are both content
to share in the benefits of a temporary alliance. You
begin to tell each other of your exploits so far, of the
monsters and traps encountered and the dangers
overcome. Walking along, you soon come to the
edge of a wide pit, It is too deep and dark to see the
bottom. The Barbarian offers to lower you to the
bottom with his rope, saying he has a torch which
he can light for you to use, Will you:

Accept the Barbarian’s offer? Turn to 63
Offer to lower him down if he is so

eager to investigate the pit? Turn to 184
Suggest that you both jump over

the pit instead? Turn to 312
23-26

23
The paper bears a simple warning written in dried
blood: ‘Beware the Trialmasters’. You replace the
papet on its nail and run back down the tunnel to
rejoin the Barbarian. Turn to 154.

24
Set back in an arched alcove in the tunnel wall you
see an ornate wooden chair carved in the shape of a
demon-like bird of prey. If you wish to sit in the
chair, turn to 324. If you would rather keep going
north, turn to 188.

25
Although the temperature in the tunnel is higher
than you could normally tolerate, the liquid from
the bamboo pipe keeps you alive, Turn to 197.

26
The pill makes you feel duil and lethargic. Lose two
SKILL points. The Dwarf tells you that you can now.
progress to the second stage of the test. He reaches
for a wicker basket and tells you that there is a snake
inside it, He tips up the basket and the snake drops
on to the AHoor; itis a cobra and it rears up into the air
ready to strike. The Dwarf says he wants to test your
reactions, You must grasp the cobra bare-handed
below its head, avoiding its deadly fangs, You
crouch down on the floor, tensing yourself for the
moment at which to seize tt, Roll two dice. If the
total is the same as or less than your SKILL, turn to
55. Ifthe total is greater than your SKILL, turn to 202,
27

27

You step up to the frightened man and cleave the
chain with your sword. He drops to his knees and
bows, thanking you over and over again. He tells
you that four years ago he entered the Trial of
Champions but failed. He felt down a pit and had to
be rescued by a Trialmaster, one of Baron Sukum-
vit’s dungeon administrators. He was offered a
choice between death or servitude in Deathtrap
Dungeon as the Trialmaster’s minion. Choosing the
latter, he worked like a slave until he could stand it
no longer and tried to escape. Alas, he was unsuc-
cessful and was captured by the Trialmaster’s
wandering Orc guards. To teach him a lesson, they
cut off his hand and condemned him to a year’s
imprisonment in this cell. You ask him whether he
has any information that might be of use to you. He
scratches his head. ‘Well, I haven't exactly done
very well in here myself,’ he says, ‘but I do know
that you need to collect gems and precious stones if
you hope to get out. I don’t know why, but there it
is.’ Without another word, the ragged prisoner
dashes out of the room, turning left into the tunnel.
You decide to keep heading north and turn right
into the tunnel. Turn to 78.

28-31

28
The Dwarf’s chainmail coat is of finest-quality iron,
obviously made by a master armourer. You strip it
from his body and place it over your head. Add 1
SKILL point. There is nothing else of use to you in
the chamber, $0 you decide to investigate the new
tunnel. Turn to 213.

29
The tunnel leads north for some distance before
coming to a dead end. The mouth of a chute pro-
trudes from the tunnel’s eastern wall. It seems to be
the only way out. You decide to risk itt and climb into
the chute. You slide gently down and come out ina
room, landing on your back. Turn to go,

30
Taking a step forward, you leap towards the far
edge of the pit. Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, tum
to 160. If you are Unlucky, turn to 319.

31
The Gnome smiles and says, ‘Good. Now, have you
a sapphire in your possession?’ If you do have a
sapphire, turn to 376. Jf you do not, turn to 3.
32-33

32
You soon come to another junction in the tunnel
One branch leads east, but the wet footprints you
have been following continue north and you decide
to follow their trail. Turn to 37.

33
It was a mistake to reach into the hole with your

sword arm. It is covered with round sucker marks
and feels as if it has been crushed. Lose 3 sKILL
points. You peer into the hole and see the bleeding
tentacle stump hanging limply. You carefully pull
out the grappling iron and leather pouch, in which
you find a tiny brass bell. You pack away your new
possessions and head north. Turn to 292.

34-36

34

You try to force the point of your sword under the
emerald eye. Much to your surprise, the emerald
shatters on contact, releasing a jet of poisonous gas
straight into your face. The gas knocks you out and
you telease the rope, bounce down the idol and
crash on to the stone floor. Your adventure ends
here. /

35

The tunnel continues west for several hundred
metres, finally ending at some steps leading up toa
closed trapdoor. You climb the steps slowly, hear-
ing muffled voices above you. Jn the dim light you
can see that the trapdooris not locked. If you wish to
knock on the trapdoor, turn to 333. If you wish to
burst through the trapdoor with your sword drawn,
turn to 124.

36
You run faster than you have ever run in your life
before, but still the boulder is catching up on you.
Roll two dice. If the total is the same as or less than
both your SKILL and STAMINA scores, turn to 340.
If the total is greater than either your SKILL or
STAMINA scores, turn to 7.
37-39

37
The passage opens out into a wide cavern which 1s

darker but much drier. Ahead you see the footprints
gradually fade, then disappear. There is a large idol
in the centre of the cavern, standing approximately
six metres high. It has jewelled eyes, each as big as
your fist. There are two giant stuffed bird-like crea-
tures standing on either side of the idol. If you wish
to climb the idol to take the jewels, turn to 351. if you
wish to walk through the cavern to the tunnel in the
opposite wall, turn to 239.

38

The man stands by silently while you gulp the water
and wolf down the bread. A sharp pain grips your
stomach and you fall to your knees. The old man
looks at you scornfully and says, ‘Well, if you will
eat poisoned food, what do you expect?’ Lose
3 STAMINA points. He shuffles off, leaving you
writhing in pain on the floor. If you are still
alive, you eventually regain enough of your
strength to continue west. Turn to 109.

39
You manage to evade the outstretched legs of the

diving Giant Fly. Stepping back, you draw your
sword and prepare to fight the hideous insect as it
turns to attack you again.

GIANT FLY SKILL 7 STAMINA 8&

lf you win, turn to 141. You may Escape by running
back into the tunnel to head north. Turn to 267.
40-42

40
You call out to the Dwarf that you are ready to fight
the MINOTAUR. The wooden door rises slowly
and you see the fearsome beast, half man, half bull,
step into the arena. Steam blows from its nostrils as
it works itself up into a rage, ready to attack. Sud-
denly it rushes forward, swinging its double-
headed axe.

MINOTALBR

If you win, turn to 163.

SKILL 9 STAMINA g

41
You walk slowly over to the alcove, carefully check-
ing the floor for any more hidden traps. You see that
the goblet contains a sparkling red liquid. Will you:

Drink the red liquid? Turn to 98
Leave the goblet and walk back to

search the Barbanan (if you have

not done so already)? Turn to 126

Leave the chamber to continue west? Turn to 83

42
The cobra’s fangs sink deep into your wrist and
you feel its poison starting to creep through your
body. Lose 5 STAMINA points. If you are still alive,
the Dwarf has no mercy but tells you to try again.
Roll two dice. If the total is the same as or less than
your SKILL, turn to 55. If the total is greater than
yout SKILL, turn to 202.

43-46

43
The tunnel turns sharply to the right and continues

north for as far as you can see. There is a door in the
‘eft-hand wall which is ajar. You hear someone cry
tor help from the other side of the door. If you wish
-0 Open it, turn to 200. If you would rather continue
north, turn to 316. -

44
You are only a few metres from the doorway when

vou hear the old man behind you utter some strange
words. Instantly your muscies harden and you feel
your skin becoming taut. You start to panic, but
there is nothing you can do to stop the petrifaction
ot your body. Your adventure ends here.

45
The razor-sharp disc thuds into your back with

terrible effect. Lose 1 SKILL point and 4 STAMINA
points. If you are still alive, you struggle to pull the
disc from your back as the Ninja throws yet another
one at you. Turn to 312.

46
You lower yourself carefully down the idol and,
wasting no more time in the cavern, run forward to
the tunnel in the northern wall. Turn to 239.
47-50

Have you got a hollow wooden tube? If you have,
turn to to. If you have not, turn to 335.

4h.

Only your immense strength and grim determina-
tion keep you from falling unconscious to the floor.
You grit your teeth and press on resolutely. Turn to

You peep round the corner and see two small crea-
tures running away from you. Both are dressed in
baggy clothes and wear pointed floppy hats. They
are mischievous LEPRECHAUNS. If you wish to
follow them, turn to 205. If you would rather walk
back to the last junction to head north, turn to 241.

50
You wake to find Throm pulling the ring off your
finger. He puts it on the floor and crushes it with the
head of his battleaxe. Then, grunting to show his
disapproval of you, he strides off east. You stand up
slowly and stagger off after him. Turn to 221.

51-52

51
The Hobgoblins are unprepared for your attack, and
you are able to kill the first one before he can draw
his sword. You turn to face the remaining Hobgob-
lin, who snarls at you with hatred.

HOBGOBLIN SKILL 6

If you win, turn to g.

STAMINA 5

52
As you open the book, it begins to disintegrate and
the pages turn to dustin your hands, You manage to
keep a few fragments and read the handwritten
script. The book appears to be about monsters, and
from what you can make out it contains a full
description of a monster called the Bloodbeast. Itis a
horrific bloated creature with tough, spiny skin and
facial blisters which burst open to become mock
eyes, evolved to hide the Bloodbeast’s only weak
spot — its real eyes. Bloodbeasts usually dwell in
pools of fetid slime which give off a poisonous gas.
This gas is so strong that it can easily knock people
unconscious. The Bloodbeast, although too bulbous
to haul itself out of its slime pool, has a long and

53-54

vicious tongue which it wraps around its victims
before it drags them into its pool. As the victim’s
flesh starts to decompose in the vile slime, the
Bloodbeast will feed from it. You tell Throm about
the grotesque Bloodbeast, but he merely shrugs his
shoulders and tells you to get going. If you have not
done so already, you may open the black book ~
turn to 138. Otherwise you must continue north
with Throm — turn to 369.

The Bloodbeast is too bulbous to climb out of its
pool, butits long tongue whips out and tries to wrap
itself around your leg. Fortunately, you have fallen
beyond its reach. The air at ground level does not
contain any of the poisonous fumes, but you wake
with a pain in your throat. You cover your mouth
with your sleeve so that you can breathe through it,
and decide what té do. If you wish to run round the
pool towards the tunnel, turn to 370. If you wish to
attack the Bloodbeast with your sword, turn to 348.

54
The lasso loosens itself and you are able to shake it

free of the idol’s neck. It falls to the floor with a loud
clatter. You quickly coil the rope up again and put it
in your backpack. Wasting no more time in the
cavern, you run forward to the tunnel in the north-
ern wall. Turn to 239.
55

55
With lightning speed, you thrust your hand out and

grip the cobra just below its open mouth. You lift it
up and, arm outstretched, dangle it in front of the
Dwarf. He doesn’t flinch but says in his calm ex-
pressionless way, ‘Please put the cobra back in the
basket and prepare for the final part of the test.
Follow me.’ You do what he says and follow him
back into the chamber, where Throm is pacing up
and down, obviously ill at ease. You wave to him
while the Dwarf opens a second secret door and tells
you to walk on through and wait for him. Again you
comply, and you find yourself in another circular
room, although this one resembles a small arena,
The floor is covered with sand, and a small balcony
runs around the arena wall. Opposite the secret
door by which you entered is an ominous-looking
wooden door. Suddenly you hear a shout, and you
look up to see the smiling Dwarf standing on the
balcony. He throws two pieces of paper down to
you. On one of them, the words NO CROP JS are
written, on the other, RUIN MOAT. In his ever-
calm voice he says, ‘If you rearrange the letters of
the words, you will find the names of two creatures.
You may choose which one to fight in my Arena of
Death.’ If you can identify the creature by rearrang-
ing the-letters NO CROPS, turn to 143. If you can
identify the creature by rearranging the letters
RUIN MOAT, turn to 40. If you cannot identify
either of the creatures, turn to 347.

56-59

56
You see that the obstruction is a large, brown,
boulder-like object. You touch it with your hand
and are surprised to find that it is soft and spongy. If
vou wish to try to climb over it, turn to 373. If yOu
wish to slice it open with your sword, turn to 215.

57

Although you check the chest carefully for any
hidden devices, you are unable to see the trap inside
it. As you lift the lid, an iron ball hanging on a cord
swings back, shattering the glass capsule fixed in-
side the lid. A cloud of poisonous gas is instantly
released into the air and you stagger back coughing
and spluttering. Lose 4 STAMINA points. If you are
still alive, turn to 198

58
You step slowly between the poles, taking care not
to touch any of them. Roll two dice. If the total is the
same as or less than your SKILL score, turn to 8o. If
the total is greater than your SKILL score, turn to

246

Ahead in the far distance you hear the sound of slow
footsteps coming towards you. Unsure of who or
what might be approaching, you look around for a
place to hide, You find a large crack in the tunnel
wall which lies in shadow. If you wish to stand your
ground with your sword drawn, turn to 341. If you
would rather hide in the shadows, turn to 283.
60

60

The tunnel ends at a large oak door. Throm wastes
no time in testing the handle and is somewhat
surprised to find the door unlocked. He pushes it
open and walks into a torch-lit chamber. Sitting
alone on an ornate chair isa DWARF, who bids you
enter the chamber. As you do so, the oak door
swings shut behind you. ‘Adventurers, you have
done well to get this far,’ says the Dwarf in a deep
voice. ‘However, as you both know, there can only
be one winner in the Trial of Champions. As Trial-
master, itis my duty to Baron Sukumvit to let only
the most able continue. Therefore. I must devise a
test of wits and strength to eliminate one of you.
Please do not attempt to dispose of me. It would be
utterly pointless, for, as you can see, there is no
obvious way out of this chamber and only I know
where the hidden exit lies. Now if you would care to
decide between you who will go first, I shall make
the necessary preparations.’ You look at Throm,
suddenly angry that your effective partnership
might come to an end. He leans over and whispers
in your ear that you should try to kill the Dwarf and
worry about the exit later. If you wish to join Throm
in attacking the Dwarf, turn to 179. If you would
rather persuade Throm to go through with the
Dwartf’s test, turn to 365.
61-62

61
Despite the terrible ringing sound in your ears, you
hear footsteps coming down the tunnel. Your loud
screams have attracted a tunnel guardian. Standing
over you isa HOBGOBLIN. His face bears a sickly
smile as he presses the point of his sword against
your neck. You are unable to defend yourself and
prevent the Hobgoblin from running you through.
Your adventure ends here.

62

The Gnome jumps in the air, yelling, “Well done -
nobody has ever managed to find all three gems
before! Now get ready for the final test, which I will
explain once and once only. As you can see, the lock
on this door has three slots, labelled A, B and C,
each of which is built to accept a specific gem. You
have to put one of your three gems in each of the
slots in the correct order. If you manage this at the
first attempt, fine. However, if you put the gems in
the wrong slots, you will be blasted by a bolt of
energy from the lock, causing you injury. Anyway,
as I said, I am allowed to help you a little. If you
place one gem inits correct slot but get the other two
wrong, I shall shout, “One crown and two skulls.”
If you place all three gems incorrectly, I shall shout,
“Three skulls.” You will be allowed to try again and
again until you either succeed or die. Are you
ready?’ You signal your readiness with a nod of the
head, and walk forward to place the three gems in
the slots. Decide which gems you will place in the
labelled slots on the next page:

63
A B Cc
Emerald Diamond Sapphire Turn to 16
Diamond ‘Sapphire Emerald Tur to 392
Sapphire Emerald Diamond Turn to 177
Emerald Sapphire Diamond Turn to 287
Diamond Emerald Sapphire Turn to 132
Sapphire Diamond Emerald Turn to 249

63

You tie the rope around your waist and take hold of
the lighted torch given to you by Throm, as your
Barbarian ally calls himself. Taking hold of the slack
Tope, Throm lowers you slowly over the edge of the
pit and down into the dark depths below. You can
see by the light of the torch that the sides of the pit
are extremely smooth. You drop about twenty
metres before hitting the bottom of the pit. There
you see another tunnel heading north and you call
up to Throm and tell him of your discovery. He calls
back, saying that he is going to tie the rope around a
protruding rock on the edge of the pit and will come
down and join you. You hear him climbing down
and soon you are together again. Throm retrieves
his rope by shaking it off the rock, and you set off
north along the new tunnel. Turn to 194.
64-66

64
As soon as you put the ring on your finger, your
whole body starts to shake. Roll two dice. If the total
is the same as or Jess than your SKILL score, turn to
115. If the totalis greater than your SKILL score, turn
{0 1990.

Have you drunk a Potion found inside a black
leather book? If you have, turn to 345. Lf you have
not drunk it, turn to 372.

66

After walking down the tunnel for a few minutes,
you come to a junction. A white arrow painted on
one wall points west. On the floor you can see wet
footprints made by those who entered before you. It
is hard to be sure, but it looks as though three of
them followed the direction of the arrow, while one
decided to go east. [f you wish to head west, tur to
293. If you wish to head east, turn to 119.

67-68

You grab one of the underwater bridge pillars and
cling to it, holding your breath. Meanwhile the
Troglodytes reach the river bank and decide that
you must have been swept to your death down-
river as it disappears into the depths of the moun-
tain. By now your lungs are bursting for air, Test
your Luck again. If you are Lucky, turn to 146. If you
are Unlucky, turn to 219

68
You walk down the passage and soon find yourself
standing at the edge of a deep, dark pit. The passage
continues east on the other side of the pit You think
you could probably jump over the pit, but you are
not sure. There is a rope hanging down from the
ceiling over the centre of the pit. Will you:

Throw your shield over the pit

and jump after it? Turn to 271
Jump over the pit carrying all

your possessions? Turn to 30
Reach for the rope with your sword

to enable you to swing across

the pit? Turn to 212
69-70

69
[vy does not notice you opening the door. You slip
out of her room, close the door quietly behind you
and find yourself at the end of another tunnel. Turn

tO 305.

70
You just manage to dive to the side before the
boulder smashes into the tunnel floor, splitting the
stone. As you dust yourself off, you suddenly notice
daylight at the end of the tunnel. You run forward
towards a beautiful sight of blue sky and green
trees. Running out of the tunnel, you expect to be
greeted by cheering crowds, but are horrified at
what you do see. There is no hero’s welcome from
the people all around you. All are dead. You are in
fact standing in a cold chamber littered with
armoured skeletons and bodies — the exit to victory
was just an illusion! Only the corpses of past adven-
turers are real. You run back towards the tunnel, but
hit an invisible barrier. You are trapped and des-
lined to end your days in the chamber of the dead.

71-72

71
Once again you reach for the parchment, only this
time it is lying amidst a pile of broken bones. Un-
folding it, you see a map of a room with a drawing of
a hideous creature inside it. Beneath the monster is
arhyme which reads:

‘Should you meet the Manticore,
Of its tail beware.

Shield yourself against the spikes
Flying through the air.’

You fold up the piece of parchment and put it in
vour backpack, Repeating the rhyme over and over
to yourself, you walk across to the alcove, Turn to
128,

72
The Mirror shatters, sending fragments of glass
flying everywhere. The Mirror Demon’s four faces
cry out in agony, and cracks appear all over them,
Then they too shatter and fall to the floor in a pile of
broken glass. Unfortunately, you cut your sword
arm badly while smashing the mirror, Although
your strength is unaffected, your weaponskill is
diminished. Lose 2 SKILL points before continuing
your journey north. Turn to 122.
73-75

73
If you have not done so already, you may walk back

to search the Barbarian — turn to 126. Otherwise,
leave the chamber to continue west — turn to 83.

74
The tunne] takes a sharp right turn and you find

yourself in a sort of gallery lined with mirrors for
some twenty metres. A human skeleton appears to
be pulled halfway through the mirror along the
right-hand wall. Suddenly a grotesque being with
four arms and four screaming faces emerges from
the mirror, barring your way ahead. It walks slowly
towards you, each arm outstretched to grab you. It
is a MIRROR DEMON from another dimensional]
plane, come to take your spirit. Will you:

Make a wish (if you are wearing a

Ring of Wishes?) Turn to 265
Try to smash the mirrors? Turn to 300
Attack the Mirror Demon with

your sword? Turn to 327

75
You rub the liquid into your wounds, but they do

not heal. Staring into the empty bottle, you wonder
what exactly the liquid was. If you have not done so
already, you may open the red book = turn to 52.
Otherwise, you must continue north with Throm —
turn to 369,
76-78

76

You step round the great bulk of the dead Rock
Grub and peer into the darkness of its borehole. You
can only see a few metres, but are able to make out
that it inclines slightly and is wet from the secreted
slime of the Rock Grub. If you wish to explore the
borehole, turn to 317. If you would rather walk west
along the tunnel, turn to 117

You stagger through the open doorway into another
tunnel, at the end of which is the welcome sight of
daylight. Much to your surprise, you see the Gnome
lying dead halfway down the tunnel. A crossbow
bolt protrudes from the side of his head. The
Gnome, in his bid for freedom, has fallen foul of
Baron Sukumvit's final trap. You walk past him and
out into brilliant sunshine. Turn to goo

78
There is an open pipe in the right-hand wall, about a
metre in diameter. It is too dark to see far down it.
You shout into it and hear your voice echoing down
the iron pipe until eventually the sound fades away.
If you wish to crawl down the pipe, turn to 301. If
you would rather continue north, turn to 142.

79~82

79
You grip the arms of the chair tightly, half expecting

a surge of energy or pain to rush through your body.
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 106. If you
are Unlucky, turn to 383.

0
You take your time and manage to step over the last
pole without having touched any of them. You
hurry on east, still following the two pairs of foot-
prints. Turn to 313.

81

The only furniture in the Goblin’s room is a table,
two chairs and a cupboard on the wall. There are
two closed doors, one in the west wall and the other
in the north wall. Will you:

Open the cupboard? Turn to 307

Open the west door? Turn to 263

Open the north door? Turn to 136
82

As the Pit Fiend slams its body against the wall, you
let go of the rope and drop safely to the floor. You
run towards the double doors and are relieved to
feel them swing open as you push on them, You let
them swing shut behind you and head north along
the tunnel. Turn to 214.
83-85

83
The passage soon leads to a junction. You notice
more footprints on the floor, possibly as many as
three pairs, heading north from the south passage
You decide to follow them. Turn to 37

84
Roll two dice. If the total! is more than eight, turn fo
152. If the total is eight or less, turn to 121.

85
Before you are able to do anything else, the old man
mumbles a few strange words into the air. You feel
your muscles harden and your skin go taut. You
start to panic, but there is nothing you can do to stop
the petrifaction of your body. Your adventure ends
here.

86-88

86

The key turns in the lock and the door opens into a
four-way intersection of the tunnel. There is noth-
ing to be seen either to east or to west apart from the
now familiar ceiling crystals giving off their dim
hight. Suddenly you hear a voice calling you, ‘This
way, this way. You are on the right track.’ It seems
to be coming from somewhere directly ahead of
you. Your cunosity gets the better of you and you
decide to walk towards the beckoning voice. Turn to
187.

87
The door opens into a large room. Turn to 381.

88

As soonas they see you, the TROGLODYTES raise
their bows and run to surround you. To your hor-
ror, their leader then steps forward and declares
that you are their prisoner and must subject yourself
to trial by their ancient rite, the Run of the Arrow. If
you are willing to take part in the Run of the Arrow,
turn to 343. If you would rather try to fight your way
out, turn to 268.
89-90

89
Back on solid ground once again on the cavern floor,
you try to shake the rope off the idol’s neck. Test
your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 54. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 261,

go
As soon as you stand up, you are confronted by the
most repulsive sight you have ever laid eyes on.
here in front of you, wallowing ina circular pool of
fetid slime, is a bulbous creature too horrible to be
believed. Its body is green and covered all over with
fearsome-looking spikes. Its face is a mass of crim-
son blisters, one of which suddenly bursts to reveal
yet another of its many sinister, all-seeing eyes. A
narrow path runs around the edge of the pool and
leads into another tunnel in the far wall. If you
have previously read details about the loathsome
BLOODBEAST in a leather-bound book, turn
to 172. If you have not read this book, turn to 357.

gi-g2

gi
The Orc’s morning star thuds into your arm, knock-
ing your sword to the floor. You must fight them
bare-handed, reducing your sxiLt by 4 for the
duration of the combat. Fortunately, the tunnel is
too narrow for both Orcs to attack you at once, Fight
them one ata time.

SKILL STAMINA
First ORC ~ 5 5
Second ORC 6 4

If you win, turn to 257.

g2
Summoning all your strength, you deal the Mirror
Demon one final blow with your sword. With an
ear-spliiting sound, cracks begin to run across its
faces and limbs. Its many mouths cry out in the
agony of its death throes before the Demon shatters
completely and falls to the ground in a pile of tiny
fragments. You heave a huge sigh of relief and then
hurry on past. Turn to 122.
93-94

93
The door opens into a small dark room, which is

empty apart from a sturdy wooden chest lying ona
shelf on the far wall. The floor is thick with dust, and
you can clearly see fresh footprints leading from the
door to the chest and back again. You wonder
whether one of your rivals is still ahead of you on
‘The Walk’, or whether the chest has only recently
been placed on the shelf by one of the Trialmasters.
If you wish to enter the room and open the chest,
turn to 284. If you would rather keep walking down
the tunnel, turn to 230

94
Taking a deep breath, you lean over the pit and

plunge your forearm into the mass of wriggling
worms. They are cold and clammy and feel extreme-
ly nasty, but at least they are harmless and you are
able to seize the dagger by the hilt. You give it a hard
tug and it comes away from the crack in which the
ip was embedded. Admiring its beauty, and
wondering whether it might once have belonged to
some luckless contestant, you put the opal-studded
dagger firmly in your belt and leave the cavern.
Turn to 174
ap ee ee en -

OS OS eee ss «COS

95-97

The iron ring is attached to a small trapdoor. It lifts
up easily, and inside a small compartment you find
a finely crafted shield made of the purest iron.
Marvelling at its splendour,you strap it on to your
arm. Add 1 SKILL point. You walk towards the
double doors and push them open. Turn to 248.

96

Your second blow also fails to smash the mirror. The
Mirror Demon reaches out, grabs your wrist and
starts pulling you towards the mirror. Its strength is
incredible, and, despite all your efforts, you cannot
resist. With every second you come closer to the
mirror. When the Mirror Demon touches the mir-
ror, it seems to disappear straight through it. With
horror you see your own arm disappear through the
mirror too, and the rest of your body soon follows.
You are now in a mirror world of another dimen-
sion, from which you can never return.

97
Unknown to you, the Bloodbeast has only one

weakness: its real eyes. More by chance than by
design, you plunge your blade deep into one of
them, and the Bloodbeast immediately slumps back
into its pool. After a few massive convulsions, it
sinks beneath the oily surface of the pool. Not
waiting to see whether it will recover, you run into
the tunnel, anxious to get away from the Blood-
beast’s toxic chamber as fast as possible. Turn to

134.

g8—100

98
Lifting the goblet releases a sprung catch, and a dart
shoots out of the wooden table leg, Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, turn to 105. If you are Unlucky, turn
tO 235.

99

Smiling, you tell Ivy that you think she and Sour-
belly look very alike. Then, while she stares admur-
ingly at the painting, you pick up a broken stool,
creep up behind her and smash her over the back of
the head with it as hard as you can. To your im-
mense relief, she slumps unconscious to the floor. If
you wish to search her room, turn to 266. If not,
leave by the door in the east wall. You find yourself
standing at the end of a tunnel. Turn to 305.

100

Only a few metres further down the passage, you
see another closed door in the left-hand wall. The
letter X is scratched into its centre panel. Putting
your ear to the door, you listen intently but can hear
nothing. If you wish to open the door, turn to 87. If
you would rather keep walking north, turn to 217
101-103

101

The river current is quite strong and, encumbered
by your armour and backpack, you are unable to
swim against it. Within seconds you are swept
under the bridge, Standing on the river bank, the
Troglodytes look on laughing and jeering as you
drift to your death down-river in the depths of the
mountain.

102
You enter a room which is small and completely
empty. As soon as you are inside, the door slams
shut behind you. Suddenly a voice booms out
of nowhere, shouting, ‘Welcome to Deathtrap
Dungeon, the ingenious killer labyrinth of my mas-
ter. Adventurer, I trust you will pay your respects to
my master by shouting out his name?’ Will you
shout:

Hail, Sukumvit?
Sukumvit is a worm?

Turn to 133
Turn to 251

103
You breathe in the poisonous gas and start to choke.
Lose 3 STAMINA points, If you are still alive, turn to

77°

104-106

104
Reacting quickly, you manage to jump over the
outstretched tongue and run into the tunnel, leav-
ing the Bloodbeast wallowing in its pool to await
another victim. Turn to 134.

105

Your reflexes are sharp and you quickly jump aside
The dart whistles past, only just missing you, and
thuds into the opposite wall. You see the goblet
lying on the floor and the red liquid running away in
rivulets over the grey stone. At least the goblet may
be of use, so you put it in your backpack. If you have
not done so already, you may walk back to search
the Barbarian - turn to 126. Otherwise, leave the
chamber to continue west — turn to 83.

106

Squeezing the arm of the chair triggers a secret
panel which springs into the air. You find a glass
phial lying im a cavity. You pick it up and read the
label: ‘Doppelganger Potion — one dose only. This
liquid will make your body take on the shape of any
nearby being.’ You place the strange potion in your
backpack and continue north. Turn to 188
107-109

107
You come to an arched doorway set in the right-
hand wall of the tunnel, The heavy stone door is
closed, but there is an iron latch and a round handle.
[If you wish to try the door, turn to 168. Ifinstead you
wish to continue along the tunnel, turn to 267.

108

There is a large panel of glass in the left-hand wall of
the tunnel. Through it you can see a bright, torch-lit
room teeming with GIANT INSECTS of every
possible description. Bees, wasps, beetles, ticks —
even the mites are over six centimetres long. The
noise is threatening. In the middle of the room, a
jewelled crown lies on top of a small table, What
looks like a large diamond is set in the middle of the
crown. Will you:

Break the glass and try to snatch

the crown? Turn to 394
Continue west? Turn to 59
Return to the junction to head north? Turn to 14

109

You arrive at another junction in the tunnel. If you
wish to keep heading west, turn to 43. If you wish to
go north, turn to 24
110-112

110
The tunnel soon takes another sharp right turn
Following it east, you arrive at a strange obstruction:
a line of twelve wooden poles across the tunnel,
They are fixed to the walls about half a metre off the
floor and spaced a metre apart. If you wish to step
between the poles, turn to 58. If you wish to walk
across the top of the poles, turn to 223.

111
You wipe the vile yellow slime from the blade of
your sword and walk quickly to the door, back into
the tunnel and head north. Turn to 267.

112

Apart from two portions of your Provisions which
were saturated and are now inedible, all your other
possessions remain intact. You repack them care-
fully inside your backpack and set off north again
Turn to 356.

113-116

113
The wooden ball whistles past the skull, hitting the
far wall with a loud ‘crack’. If you wish to try again
with the other ball, turn to 371. If you have already
thrown twice, or do not wish to throw again, you
may decide to close the door and continue west
along the tunnel — turn to 74.

114
The Caveman is wearing a leather wristband with
four smail rats’ skulls hanging from it. If you wish to
put it on your own wrist, turn to 336. If you would
rather set off north again, turn to 298.

115

Your body continues to vibrate intensely and you
feel as if you are about to pass out. But your strength
is great, and you manage to withstand the
tremendous shock to your system. Finally you calm
down and begin to feel the ring’s beneficial powers
working on you. Add 3 STAMINA points. You see
Throm looking at you anxiously, so you reassure
him that you are fully recovered. He strides off east
and you follow him eagerly. Turn to 221.

116
You cannot believe that the Bloodbeast is unaffected
by its new wound. You hesitate a moment too long
and it lunges forward, cracking your skull with its
jaws. Then it drags you into its pool, where you will
be predigested and later consumed by the hideous
creature,
117-118

117
After a long walk down the tunnel, you come to a
dead end. A large mirror reaching from the ceiling
to the floor hangs on the end wall, and in the dim
light you can just about make out your own reflec-
tion. If you wish to take a closer look in the mirror,
turn to 329. If you would rather make the long walk
back to the last junction in the tunnel in order to
head east, turn to 135.

118

Despite the stalactites crashing all around, you
manage to dash through the archway without in-
jury. You look round and see Throm thundering
towards you, one arm held over his head for protec-
tion. He dashes into the tunnel and leans against the
cold wall, panting heavily. He apologizes for start-
ing the rock-fall and offers you his hand to shake.
You tell Throm that maybe he should use sign
language in future, even for laughing! You both
smile and head east once more. Turn to 60.

119-121

119

Ahead you can see a large obstruction on the tunnel
floor, although it is too dark to make out exactly
what it is. The wet footprints you have been follow-
ing carry on towards the obstruction. If you want to
continue east, turn to 56. If you would rather go
back to the junction and head west, turn to 293.

120

Lying in a hole about a metre deep, you see a
grappling iron and a leather pouch. If you wish to
reach down for them, turn to 228. If you would
rather ignore them and continue north, turn to 292.

121

The Dwarf looks at the dice. ‘Not very good at
playing the odds, are you?’ he sneers. ‘I regret you
must suffer a penalty before you can continue.’
From out of his pocket he produces two pills, One is
stamped with the letter S and the other stamped
with the letter L. He asks you to choose one and
swallow it. If you wish to swallow the pill stamped
with the letter S, turn to 26. If you wish to swallow
the other pill, turn to 354.
122-124

122

In front of you are two flights of stone steps sep-
arated by a banister of rat skulls. You may climb
either the left-hand flight of steps — turn to 176 — or
the right-hand flight — turn to 384.

123
The necklace is an amulet of strength. Add 1 SKILL
pointand 1STAMINA point and continue your quest
north. Turn to 282.

124
You throw the trapdoor open and run up the steps
into a bright, lantern-lit room. Two GOBLINS are
sharpening their short swords on a stone set in the
middle of the floor. You catch them momentarily off
guard, but they quickly recover and both rush for-
ward to attack you.
SKILL STAMINA

First GOBLIN 5 4
Second GOBLIN 5 5

Both Goblins will have a separate attack on you in
each Attack Round, but you must choose which of
the two you will fight. Attack your chosen Goblin as
in a normal battle. Against the other you must
throw for your Attack Strength in the normal way,
but even if your Attack Strength is greater you will
not wound it. You must just count this as though
you have defended yourself against its blow.
However, if its Attack Strength is greater, it will
have wounded you in the normal way. If you win,
turn to 81.
125-127

125
You tiptoe towards the door while Ivy prattles on.
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 69. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 139.

126
The pouch on the Barbarian’s belt is empty apart
from some strange-looking dried meat wrapped ina
cloth. Will you:

Eat the dried meat? Turn to 226
Leave the meat and walk over to

the alcove (if you have not

done so already)? Turn to 41
Leave the chamber and head west? Turn to 83

127
The only possible way out of the hall as far as you
can see is by using the chute in the northern wall

You decide to give it a go and climb into the chute.
You slide gently down and emerge into another
room, landing on your back. Turn to go.

128-129

128

At the back of the alcove are some steps leading
down into a cellar. Cobwebs brush your face as you
descend. The cellar ceiling is quite low, and the floor
is strewn with rubbish and debris. In the middle of
the wall opposite you is an archway which leads
into another crystal-lit tunnel. There are large
mushrooms growing on the rubbish to your right. If
you wish to step through the archway, turn to 35. If
you wish to stop to eat some of the mushrooms,
turn to 233.

129
You tie the rope to the grappling iron and hurl it
over the top of the wall. Its hooks dig into the stone
and you begin to haul yourself up. Peering over the
top of the wall, you see an enormous dinosaur-like
monster thrashing about in a sand-covered pit. Its
tough hide is a mottled green colour, and it stands
some ten metres tall on its muscular hind legs, Rows
130

of razor-sharp teeth line its gigantic jaws, which
open and close with bone-snapping power. There is
a large double door in the wall on the far side of the
pit, which appears to be the only way out of this
section of the dungeon. Will you:

Lower yourself down on the rope
into the pit to fight the
PIT FIEND?

Throw your bone monkey charm into
the pit (if you have one)?

Try to hook the PIT FIEND with the
grappling iron while sitting on
top of the wall?

Turn to 349

Turn to 361

Turn to 167

130
The Hobgoblins stop their fight immediately. They
do not understand what you are saying and snarl at
you viciously. Then they draw their short swords
and run forward to attack you. Fight them one at a
time.

SKILL STAMINA

First HOBGOBLIN 7 5
Second HOBGOBLIN 6 5

If you win, turn to 9.

131-132

131
The crossbow bolts fly over your head and thud
into the opposite wall; fortunately, you are still
crouching on the floor. Now that the trap has been
sprung, you can leave the room by the door through
which you entered. Back in the tunnel you head on
west, Turn to 74.

132
You just have time to hear the Gnome say, ‘One
crown and two skulls’, before a white bolt of energy
shoots out from the lock into your chest and knocks
you unconscious. Roll one die, add 1 to the number
and reduce your STAMINA by the total. If you are
still alive, you come to and are told by the Gnome to
try again. You know you placed one gem in the
correct slot, but which one? You sigh and tentatively
try a new combination

A B Cc

Emerald Diamond Sapphire Turn to 16
Diamond Sapphire Emerald Turn to 392
Sapphire Emerald Diamond Turn to 177
Emerald Sapphire Diamond Turn to 287
Diamond Emerald Sapphire Turn to 132
Sapphire Diamond Emerald Turn to 249

133-135

133

Once again, the mysterious voice calls out, only this
time its tone is full of contempt and derision. ‘So, we
have a snivelling weed in our midst, do we?’ sneers
the voice. ‘My master has a special gift for you,
loathsome creep.’ Suddenly water starts pouring
into the room through a hole in the ceiling. It soon
rises above your ankles, and there is no apparent
way of escape. You wade back to the door. It is
firmly locked, but in desperation you try ramming it
with your shoulder. Roll two dice. If the total is the
same as or less than your SKILL score, turn to 178. If
the total is greater than your SKILL score, turn to 17.

134

The tunnel leads into a large room, its ceiling sup-
ported by several marble pillars. As you enter the
room, you suddenly see a strange beast to your
tight. It has the body of a lion with dragon-like
wings attached to it, but its head is like that of an old
bearded man. If you have read the poem written on
the Skeleton Warrior’s parchment, turn to 222. If
you have not read this poem, turn to 247.

135
Passing the Rock Grub’s borehole on your left, you
soon arrive at the junction. You take a quick look
down the tunnel leading south, but do not see
anybody approaching. Quickening your step, you
hurry on east. Turn to 68.
136-138

136
The door opens into another tunnel, which rises
gently into the distance. After walking uphill for a
while, the tunnel levels out and you soon arrive ata
door in the right-hand wall, to which a withered
hand is nailed. If you wish to open the door, turn to
210. If you would rather continue north, turn to 78,

137
Walking along the tunnel, you are surprised to see a
large iron bell hanging down from the ceiling. If you
wish to ring the bell, turn to 220. If you would rather
walk round it and continue west, turn to 362.

138

The book’s pages are sealed together, but a small
hole has been cut out in the middle of them, just
large enough to hold a small corked bottle contain-
ing a clear liquid. You show it to Throm, who holds
up his hand, indicating that he does not want you to
come anywhere near him with it; his distrust of
things unknown is strongly evident. Will you:

Drink the liquid? Turn to 397
Rub the liquid into your wounds? Turn to 75
Open the red book (if you have

not done so already)? Turn to 52

Leave the bottle and book to

continue north with Throm? Turn to 369

139-142

139
As you try to escape, Ivy whirls round and picks up
@ broken stool. She is angry and attacks you fer-
ociously, Lose 2 STAMINA points. If you are still
alive, you manage to draw your sword and fight
back.

IVY SKILL g STAMINA 9

If you win, turn to 201.

140
You try to force the point of your sword under the
emerald eye. Much to your surprise, it shatters on
contact, releasing a jet of poisonous gas straight into
your face. The gas knocks you out and you fall
backwards, bouncing down the idol to land on the
stone floor. Your adventure ends here,

141
The Mirror Demon is almost on top of you when,
summoning all your strength, you strike one final
blow against the mirror with your sword, Roll two
dice. If the total is the same as or Jess than your
SKILL, turn to 72. If the total is greater than your
SKILL, turn to 96.

142
There is a new branch in the tunnel on your left, and
ahead you see two bodies lying on the floor. You
stop and peer down the new tunnel, but seeing no
doors or creatures you decide against walking down
it. With your sword drawn, you walk over to where
the bodies lie. Turn to 338.
143

143

You call out to the Dwarf, telling him to send in the
SCORPION because you are ready to fight. Slowly
the wooden door rises, and a huge, grotesque black
Scorpion squeezes underneath it and enters the
room. You draw your sword in readiness and pre-
pare to fight the sinister creature with its huge
pincers and deadly sting

GIANT SCORPION SKILL 10 STAMINA 10

The Seorpion attacks you with both pincers, and
you must treat each pincer as a separate creature as
though you were fighting two creatures. Both pin-
cers have a SKILL of 10 and will attack you separately
in each Attack Round, but you must choose which
of the two you will fight. Attack one pincer as ina
normal battle. Against the other pincer you must
throw for your Attack Strength in the normal way,
but you will not wound it even if your Attack
Strength is greater; you must count this as though
you have just fended off its blow. Of course, if its
Attack Strength is greater, it will have wounded you
in the normal way. If, during any of the Attack
Rounds, the Scorpion’s Attack Strength totals 22,
turn to 2. If you manage to kill the Scorpion without
it scoring an Attack Strength of 22, turn to 163.
144-145

144
Still smiling, the old man looks at you and says

quietly, ‘Wrong.’ Turn to 85.

145

The Dwarf is expecting your move. Furthermore,
you are not as fast as you should be because of your
recent ordeal, so he easily evades your punch,
saying, ‘I could kill you now if wished, but I yearn
for a hand-to-hand fight.’ Then he throws down his
crossbow and draws an axe from his belt. Despite
your fatigue, you think only of vengeance.

DWARF SKILL 8

During each Attack Round you must reduce your
Attack Strength by 2 because of your condition. If
you win, turn to 28.

STAMINA 6

146-147

146

The pain in your lungs forces you to rise to the
surface for air. Fortunately, none of the Troglodytes
see you and they al] disperse. You climb out of the
nver and cross the bridge to the northern bank. Any
remaining Provisions you may have are now ined-
ible. You continue to walk through the vast cavern
until at last you see a tunnel in the far wall. You walk
down it until you come to a heavy wooden door
which is locked. If you have an iron key, turn to 86.
If you do not have a key, turn to 276.

147
The water in the bamboo pipe is welcomingly re-
freshing. Add 1 STAMiNA point. It also contains a
magical solution which will enable you to be ex-
posed to melting-point temperatures without harm.
Discarding the bamboo, you start off north again in
good spirits. Turn to 182.
148-149

148
There is nowhere to go except down the steps
towards the barking dogs. You reach the bottom
and, with your sword drawn, face the two huge
black GUARD DOGS, which leap at you one at a
time,

SKILL STAMINA
First GUARD DOG 7 7
Second GUARD DOG 7 8

If you win, turn to 175. You may Escape after killing
the first Guard Dog by running east down the
tunnel. Turn to 315.

149
You let go of the rope and hear it fall to the bottom of
the pit. The Barbarian curses, promising to kill you if
your paths should cross again. You step back and
take a running jump. You land safely on the far side
of the pit and continue west. Further down the
tunnel, you step on a floor stone which tilts for-
ward, triggering a trap which releases a boulder
loosely set in the ceiling. You look up just as it is
about to crash on top of you. Test your Luck. If you
are Lucky, turn to 7o. If you are Unlucky, turn to

353:

150-151

150

Having had the sense not to put your sword arm
into the hole, the effects of the tentacled arm are not
too serious. Lose 1 SKILL point. You reach back into
the hole and pull out the grappling iron and the
leather pouch. Inside the pouch you find a tiny
brass bell, You pack away your new possessions
and continue north. Turn to 292.

151
As you touch the idol’s emerald eye you hear a
creaking sound below you. Looking down, you are
shocked to see the two stuffed birds flying off. Their
wings flap in jerky movements, but they are soon
above you and look set to attack. Fight the FLYING
GUARDIANS one ata time, but reduce your SKILL
by 2 during this combat because of your restricted
position.

SKILL STAMINA
First FLYING GUARDIAN 7 8
Second FLYING GUARDIAN 8 8

If you win, turn to 240.
152-153

152

The Dwarf congratulates you for guessing correctly.
He tells you that you must now progress to the
second stage of the test. He reaches for a wicker
basket and tells you that a snake is held within it. He
tips up the basket and the snake drops on to the
floor; it is a cobra, and it rears up in the air ready to
strike. The Dwarf tells you that he wishes to test
your reactions. Bare-handed, you must grasp the
cobra below its head, avoiding its deadly fangs. You
crouch down on the floor, tensing yourself for the
moment to seize it. Roll two dice. If the total is the
same as or less than your SKILL, turn to 55. If the
total is greater than your SKILL, turn to 202.

153
The door opens into a small room in which there is a
human skull with jewelled eyes resting on top of a
marble plinth. A row of loaded crossbows is fixed to
the left-hand wall, and two small wooden balls lie
on the floor just inside the door. Will you:

Walk into the room and pick up

the skull? Turn to 390
Throw a wooden ball at the skull
from the doorway? Turn to 371

Close the door and continue west,
taking the wooden balls with you? Turn to 74
154-156

154
Running down the tunnel, you soon catch up with
the Barbarian and tell him that the eastern passage
comes to a dead end. He nods his head in silent
understanding and sets off towards the west with
you at his side. Turn to 22.

&

\

155

The words of her poem flash through your mind:
‘When corridor doth water meet, do not make a
quick retreat. . .’ Of course, it is here that she wants
you to dive into the water. Now you must decide
what to do, If you wish to dive into the water, turn
to 378. If you would rather walk back down the
tunnel, turn to 322.

156

The small plate slides open easily, and you find
yourself peering into a room with a deep pit in the
floor behind the door. On the opposite wall there
are two iron hooks, on one of which hangs a coil of
rope. If you wish to open the door, jump over the pit
and take the rope, turn to 208. If you would rather
continue north along the tunnel, turn to 326.

157-160

157
The casket opens easily, and inside there is a black
velvet bag containing a large pearl. Add 1 LUCK
point. After putting the pearl in your pocket, you
press on through the cobwebs. Turn to 310.

158
You lift the jug to your lips and take a swig of the
liquid. It burns so much that you drop the jug and
grab your throat in agony. You have swallowed
acid! Lose 1 SKILL point and 4 sTAMINA points, If
you are still alive, turn to 275.

159
Your reactions are still slow because of the poison in

your system, and although you try to jump over the
outstretched tongue, your legs let you down. The
sticky tongue wraps itself around your leg, flipping
you over, and starts to pull you towards the pool.
Your sword has slipped out of your hand and you
start to panic. If you have a dagger, turn to 294. If
you do not have a dagger, turn to 334.

r

——-» -
160
Your armour and sword weigh you down, but you

just manage to land safely on the far edge of the pit
You waste no time and head east. Turn to 237.
161-163

161

You push past the two Leprechauns and head off
north, the noise of jeering and laughter ringing in
yourears. Further up the tunnel you stop to restand
check your belongings. Lf you had any gems, they
are now gone; the Leprechaun who landed on your
back stole them from your backpack, You curse the
thieving Leprechauns and set off north again. Turn
to 29.

162
Removing the box lid by the light of the tunnel, you
find an iron key and a large gem. It is a sapphire.
Add 1 Luck point. Placing the items carefully in
your backpack, you set off north once again. Turn to

142

163

The Dwarf calls down from the balcony, congratu-
lating you on your victory. He throws a sack down
into the arena and tells you to relax and regain your
strength for the final part of the test. Then he walks
off, saying he will return in about ten minutes. You
open the sack and find a jug of wine and a cooked
chicken. If you wish to eat and drink the Dwart’s
offerings, turn to 363. If you would rather just sit
down and await his return, turn to 302,

164-166

164

As you walk along, droplets of water again start
falling from the tunnel ceiling. You see wet foot-
prints, made by the same boots that you followed
earlier, heading west. The footprints lead to a closed
iron doorin the right-hand wall of the tunnel], but do
not seem to go any further. If you wish to open the
door, turn to 299. If you would rather keep going
west, turn to 83,

165
There is a slot in the padlock into which you place
the coin. Immediately the lock clicks apart, and you
are able to unchain the stilts. You place them on
your shoulder and once again set off north. Turn to

234.

166

As you touch the emerald eye of the idol, you heara
creaking sound below you. Looking down, you are
shocked to see the two stuffed birds taking flight.
Their wings flap in jerky movements, but they are
soon above you and look set to attack. Fighi the
FLYING GUARDIANS one at a time, but reduce
your SKILL by 3 during this combat because of your
restricted position.

SKILL STAMINA
First FLYING GUARDIAN 7 8
Second FLYING GUARDIAN 8 8

If you win, turn to 11.
167-168

167
You swing the grappling iron around your head and
hurl it at the beast below. The Pit Fiend’s huge jaws
snap tight over the grappling iron, then it jerks its
head back. Still holding the rope, you are pulled off
the wall and tumble to the bottom of the pit. Lose 4
STAMINA points. If you are still alive, turn to 203.

168

Lifting the latch and pushing the heavy stone door
open, you find yourselfina large cavern. The light is
dim and murky, but as your eyes begin to adjust,
you see that the walls are covered in green algae and
running with moisture. The floor is strewn with
straw. The atmosphere is warm, damp and fetid,
and a soft humming sound fills the air, You step
gingerly through the straw towards a corner of the
cavern, where there appears to be a shallow pit.
Peering warily into the pit, you are disgusted to see
a mass of pale writhing worms, some as much as
half a metre long. Utterly nauseated, you are about
to turn away when you notice that their undulating
bodies are swarming round a dagger, its point held
fast in a crack in the pit floor. The hilt is cased in
black leather studded with opals, and the blade is
fashioned from a strange reddish-black burnished
metal you have never seen before. You long to touch
the dagger, but this would mean plunging your
hand in among the writhing worms. Do you reach
for the dagger — turn to 94 — or back away in disgust
and leave the cavern — turn to 267?
171-172

171
The door swings open into a smal! room, but before
you know what is happening, you find yourself
falling through thin air —there was a pit behind the
door which you did not see. You land heavily at the
bottom and wince with pain. Lose 4 STAMINA
points. The pit walls are roughly chiselled and have
plenty of toe- and finger-holds, so you are able to
clamber out quite easily, You curse your own eager-
ness and tell yourself to be more careful in future
when entering rooms. Inside the room you see two
iron hooks on the wall opposite the door. A coil of
rope ts hanging on one of them, You put it in your
backpack, jump back over the pit to leave the room
and head north. Turn to 326.

172 |

Remembering the description of the vile Bloodbeast
and the warning about toxic gas rising from its pool,
you cover your mouth with your sleeve and step
forward with your sword drawn, wary of the Blood-
beast's tongue. As you step round the side of its
pool, it rolls forward and flicks out its tongue, but
you are ready for it and cleave it with one swipe of
your sword, The beast howls in pain and stretches
forward frantically, trying to clasp you between its
blood-filled jaws. You start hacking at its hideous
face in an attempt to pierce its real eyes,

BLOODBEAST

As soon as you win your second Attack Round, turn
to 278.

SKILL 12 STAMINA 10

173-174

173
The cool water is refreshing and comes from a
source which has been sprinkled with Pixie dust.
Add 1 STAMINA point and 2 sKILL points. If you
have not done so already, you may either drink
from the other fountain — turn to 337 - or continue
north — turn to 368.

174

As you make your way back to the doorway, the
buzzing sound increases in intensity, and you look
around desperately to discover where it is coming
fram. Glancing up in the nick of time, you see the
huge and grotesque black shape of a GIANT FLY
emerging from a recess high up in the cavern wall.
As it gets closer, you realize that it is at least one and
a half metres long, Its opaque wings vibrate, making
the sickening buzzing noise you can hear, and its six
black hairy legs are poised to gtasp your body,
Below its multi-faceted eyes is a lang, shiny, black
proboscis, which darts in and out venomously. You
have stolen the Giant Fly’s treasure from her brood
of maggots, and you must take the consequences,
Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 39. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 350.
175
Attached to the collar of one of the Guard Dogs is a
metal capsule. You prise off the top and find a small
tooth inside. It is a Leprechaun’s tooth which will
bring you good fortune. Add 2 Lucx points. You
put the tooth in your pocket and set off east along
the tunnel. Turn to 315.

176
Treading carefully, you slowly make your way up
the steps. You soon reach the top without mishap.
Continue along the new tunnel. Turn to 277.

aa
ra
_

ine)
177

You just have time to hear the Gnome yell, “Three
crowns!’, before the lock clicks open. As the heavy
door swings slowly outwards, the Gnome rushes
towards it, hurling the glass ball at your feet. Green
gas escapes from the broken glass, and you try to
avoid inhaling it. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 243. If you are Unlucky, turn to 103.

178
The door cannot withstand the furious battering
you are giving it. The centre panel cracks and splin-
ters, enabling you to kick a hole in it large enough
for you to squeeze through. Wet but happy to have
survived your ordeal, you set off north again. Turn

to 344.

179

179

As you rush towards the Dwarf, he pulls two hand
darts from his belt and he throws them at you and
Throm, hitting both of you in the leg. You are both
instantly paralysed by the poison on the tip of the
dart, Lose 2 STAMINA points. As though glued to
the floor, you can only watch as the Dwarf retrieves
his dart from your thigh. He asks you whether you
are willing to enter his contest now. You strain to
nod your head. Slowly, the effects of the poison
wear off and mobility returns. The Dwarf beckons
you to follow him, telling Throm to await his return.

He opens a secret door in the chamber wall and you
follow him into a small circular room. He closes the
door behind you and hands you two bone dice,
telling you to throw them on the floor. You roll a six
and a two, a total of eight. The Dwarf asks you to roll
again, but this time you must predict the total: wil] it
be the same, or higher or lower than eight? If you
wish to guess that it will be the same, turn to 290. [f
you wish to guess that it will total less than eight,
turn to 191. If you wish to guess that it will total
more than eight, turn to 84.

180-181

180
As you make a lunge at the Bloodbeast, you sud-
denly start to feel faint. The gas rising up from the
pool is highly toxic and you slump to the floor
unconscious. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn
to 53. [If you are Unlucky, turn to 272,

181

The tunnel leads into a marble-floored hall with
pillars rising right up to the ceiling. As you cross the
floor, your footsteps echo through the hall. The
hairs on the back of your neck start to prickle as you
sense unseen eyes watching you. Unknown to you,
one of your rivals is hiding behind a pillar. It is the
NINJA, the deadly assassin dressed in black robes.
Without a sound, he steps out from behind the pillar
and throws a star-edged disc at your back. Instine-
tively, an inner voice tells you to duck. Test your
Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 312. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 45.

162-183

182

The temperature continues to rise and you find
yourself dripping with sweat. As you struggle on,
the heat intensifies until it feels like white heat and
becomes so unbearable that you begin to pass out. If
you drank the liquid from the bamboo pipe, turn to
25. If you did not stop to drink, turn to 242.

183

You climb on to your stilts and take a few tentative
steps across the floor. Your confidence grows, and
you soon feel able to tackle the walk across the
slime. Smoke rises from the base of the stilts as the
slime starts to burn them away. Ygu plod stolidly on
and finally reach firm ground again. Unfortunately,
the stilts are still covered in slime and you are forced
to dump them. Setting off north, you come to a
junction. If you wish to go west, turn to 386. If you
wish to continue north, turn to 218.

- 184

184

The Barbarian, who tells you he is called Throm, ties
the rope around his waist, giving you the free end.
As he lights the torch, you see a look of distrust in
his eyes. Slowly, he climbs over the edge of the pit
while you brace yourself and take the strain of the
rope. As you lower him little by little, you see the
smooth sides of the pit illuminated by Throm’s
torch. He finally reaches the bottom and calls up to
you, saying that there is another tunnel running
north. He tells you to secure the rope around a rock
protruding from the edge of the pit and lower
yourself to the bottom. If you wish to stay with the
Barbarian and head north down the lower tunnel,
turn to 323. If you wish to abandon him by jumping
over the pit to head west, turn to 149.

185-186

185
The Troglodytes are too involved in their tribal
dancing to hear the clatter of your sword, and you
crawl past. When you think you are far enough
away, you stand up and run across the cavern floor.
Ahead you see an underground river running east
to west through the cavern with a wooden bridge
crossing over it. Hearing a noise, you glance back
and realize you have been spotted. The Troglodytes
are chasmg you. If you wish to run over the bridge,
turn to 318. lf you wish to dive into the river, turn to

47.

186

Slowly and carefully, you begin to climb the idol.
You are about to grab hold of its large ear when
suddenly your foot slips. Test your Luck, If you are
Lucky, turn to 260. If you are Unlucky, turn to 358.
187-188

187

The tunnel bends sharply to the right, and around
the corner you see a little old man witha long beard,
cowering behind a large wicker basket. The basket is
tied to a rope, the other end of which disappears
into the ceiling. The old man sounds very worried as
he says, ‘Do not attack me, stranger. I pose no threat
to you. Iam here simply to help you. If you would
be so kind as to offer me some sort of remuneration,
I will gladly haul you up in the basket to the upper
level. And believe me, that is where you ought to
be.’ If you wish to give the man something from
your backpack for his services, turn to 360. If you
would rather walk past him down the tunnel, turn
to 280.

188
The tunnel starts to slope downwards and finally
comes to an end at a deep pool enclosed by the
tunnel wall. If you can remember the spirit girl’s
poem, turn to 155. If you have not seen the spirit
girl, turn to 224,

189-190

189
The Orc’s morning star sinks agonizingly into your
left thigh. Lose 3 STAMINA points, You stagger
backwards, but manage to regain your balance in
time to defend yourself. Fortunately, the tunnel is

too narrow for both Orcs to attack you at once. Fight,

them one ata time

SKILL STAMINA
First ORC 5 5
Second ORC 6 4

If you win, turn to 257.

190
Your body vibrates wildly and you are unabie to
stop yourself passing out. Lose 3 STAMINA points,
if you are still alive, turn to 50.

191-194

191
Roll two dice. If the total is less than eight, turn to
152. If the total is eight or higher, turn to 121.

192
Walking along the tunnel, you notice an iron grille
in the floor. If you wish to stop and lift it up, turn to
120. If you prefer to keep walking, turn to 292.

Me,
The acid burns through your stomach wall, eating
its way into your vital organs, You collapse uncon-
scious, never to recover, Your adventure ends here.

194
On a stone ledge in the tunnel wali you see two
dusty Jeather-bound books. Throm grunts his con-
tempt for the written word, urging you to leave the
books and hurry on. Will you:

Open the red leather book? Turn to 52
Open the black leather book? Turn to 138
Continue north along the tunnel? Turn to 369
195-196

195

You draw your sword and rush towards the old
man. He raises his left arm and suddenly you hit
and bounce off an invisible shield. ‘Do nat be fool-
ish, my powers are great,’ the old man says calmly.
‘If you do not believe me, watch this,’ From out of
nowhere a flying fist appears, which smashes into
your face before you can duck. Lose 1 STAMINA
point. You shake your head and rub your jaw. You
appear to have no alternative but to try to answer his
question, Turn to 382.

196
You raise your shield in front of you just in time to
protect yourself from a volley of spikes released
from the Manticore’s tail and aimed straight at your
heart. They sink into your shield and you remain
unharmed. Swiftly you draw your sword and ad-
vance on the Manticore.

MANTICORE SKILL 11

If you win, turn to 364.

STAMINA II

197-199

7
Mercifully, the temperature now starts to drop

rapidly, and soon it feels almost cool again. On the
left-hand side of the tunnel is a closed door. It has a
small iron plate in it, which might possibly slide
open. Will you:

Try to open the door? Turn to 171
Try to slide the iron plate? Turn to 156
Continue north up the tunnel? Turn to 326

198
Once the gas has cleared, you walk back to the chest
and look inside. There is a pendant chain lying in
the bottom of it, but somebody has already removed
the stone from its setting. This annoys you so much
that you throw the chain an to the floor and storm
out of the room and up the tunnel. Turn to 230.

199

The crossbow bolts are far too many to evade. Roll
one die to determine the number of bolts that sink
into your body, and lose 2 STAMINA points for each
one. If you are still alive, you must rest here a long
time to recover from your wounds. Lose 1 LUCK
point. When you eventually feel strong enough to
carry on, you leave the room and continue west
along the tunnel. Turn to 74.
200-202

200
The door opens into a small room with a straw-
covered floor. In the centre of the room there is a
large draped cage standing some two metres high.
There is a cord fixed to the top of the drape which
runs up through an iron ring in the ceiling and
hangs down to the floor. If you wish to pull the
drape up, turn to 321. If you would prefer to leave
the room and head north along the tunnel, turn to
316,

201
You search through the cupboards and boxes in
Ivy’s room, but you find nothing except for an old
bone. A door lies in the east wall of the chamber and
you decide to leave, taking the old bone with you if
you wish. You now find yourself standing at the
end of another tunnel. Turn to 305.

202

The cobra’s reactions are quicker than yours, and its
hooded head shoots forward to bite you. Test your
Luck, lf you are Lucky, turn to 18. If you are Un-
lucky, turn to 42 !
203-205

203
You stagger to your feet and draw your sword, You
are only just in time, for the fearsome beast is
closing in on you fast. This is going to be one of the
toughest fights of your life.

PIT FIEND

If you win, turn to 258.

SKILL 12 STAMINA 15

204
There is an unseen pressure plate on top of the
plinth, and as soon as the skull is put back on it, the
device is sprung. Immediately the crossbows re-
lease a shower of bolts across the room. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 131. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 199.

205
Running after the Leprechauns, you hear more
laughter, only now it is behind you. You look round
and see six more Leprechauns emerging from be-
hind a hidden door in the tunnel wall, Suddenly,
yet another Leprechaun drops on your back from a
ledge fixed to the ceiling. Shaking him off your back,
you draw your sword, whereupon the Leprechauns
laugh even louder. If you wish to attack them, turn
to 306. If you would rather try to walk past them,
turn to 161.

206—207

206
The stalactites continue to fall all around you, but
you haven't enough strength to do more than crawl
towards the archway, Suddenly you feel an arm
around your waist picking you up, and realize in
your semi-conscious state that Throm is carrying
you. He lays you down in the safety of the tunnel
and tends your wounds. You decide to eat some of
your Provisions to help regain your strength, and
you also give one portion to Throm in gratitude for
his rescuing you. He apologizes for starting the
rock-fall and offers you his hand to shake. Despite
the pain, you manage a smile and shake his hand.
When you have finally recovered, you stand up and
head east, with Throm leading the way. Turn to 60.

207
You take off your shirt and tear itin half. You wrap a
piece around each foot to give yourself some sort of
protection against the corrosive slime, and dash
across it in giant leaps. On the firm ground beyond
the slime, you frantically try to rip the burning shirt
off your feet with your sword. However, some of
the slime has eaten its way through to your ankle.
Lose 3 STAMINA points. Setting off north again, you
come to a junction. If you wish to go west, turn to
386. If you wish to continue north, turn to 218.
208-210

208

The door swings open into the room, and you step
back and jump over the pit. You put the rope m your
backpack and jump back over the pit to leave the
room and head north. Turn to 326.

209

You are dismayed to find that not only are all your
remaining Provisions saturated and inedible, but
one of the treasures you found is missing. Cross off
one item on your Equipment List, or one of your
jewels or potions. You carefully repack your re-
maining possessions and set off north again. Turn
to 356.

210
You enter a room in which a manin tattered clothing
is standing chained to the wall by his left arm. You
see that his right hand is missing and realize that his
must be the hand nailed to the door, Pleading for
mercy, he cowers back from you as far as his chains
will allow, If you wish to cut him free from his
chains, turn to 27. If you would rather leave the
room to head north, turn to 78
211-213

211
You manage to free yourself from Ivy's grip and
draw your sword, Picking up a broken stool as a
weapon, she advances towards you.

IVY SKILL 9 STAMINA 9

If you win, turn to 201.

212

Gripping the rope firmly, you step back to take a
running jump. However, in the dim light you donot
notice that someone has cut the rope almost in two
just a little way above the section you are holding.
As you swing out across the pit it suddenly breaks,
and you scream with fear as you plunge headlong to
the depths below. Turn to 285.

213

The tunnel soon divides into two. You hear a buzz-
ing sound coming from the western branch. If you
wish to walk west to investigate who or what is
making the noise, turn to 108. If you would rather
continue north, turn to 14.

214-216

214

Walking along, you see a red line painted across the
tunnel floor and notice a sign on the wall which
reads: ‘No weapons beyond this point’. If you wish
to abandon any weapons before continuing north,
turn to 389. If you would rather ignore the notice
and carry on north, turn to 181.

245

Your sword easily pierces the thin outer casing of
the giant spore ball. A thick brown cloud of spores
bursts out of the ball and envelops you. Some of the
spores stick to your skin and start to itch terribly.
Great lumps come up on your face and arms, and
your skin feels as if it is on fire. Lose 2 STAMINA
points. Frantically scratching your itching lumps,
you step over the now deflated spore ball and head
east, Turn to 13.

216

Recognizing the snake-like head of the Medusa, you
close your eyes to avoid her deadly stare that would
turn vou to stone. If you wish to enter her cage with
your eyes closed to dispose of her with your sword,
turn to 308. If you would rather retreat out of the
room with your eyes closed to continue north, turn
to 316
217-215

217

The passage slowly starts to climb, leading you
relentlessly northwards. You do not come across a
single junction. There are no doorways or even an
alcove to investigate, and you become less guarded
as you plod on. After a while you become so non-
chalant that you fail to notice a thin tripwire stretch-
ed low across the passage. It is only when your foot
catches it and you hear a distant rumble that you
realize your mistake. The rumbling sound swells to
an almost deafening level, and suddenly out of
the gloom of the tunnel ahead you see a massive
boulder roiling towards you, gathering speed with
every second. Dropping your shield if you have one
(lose 1 SKILL point), you turn to flee the oncoming
boulder. Turn to 36

218

You soon arrive at a double door in the left-hand
wall, You listen at the door but hear nothing. You
try the handle, it turns and you open the left door
slightly and peer through the crack, An armed
warrior is lying face down on the floor of a bare
room with smooth walls and a low ceiling. He is
presumably dead, for he makes no movement even
when you call out to him. A large jewel, perhaps a
diamond, lies just beyond his outstretched arm. If
you wish to enter the room and take the jewel, turn
to 65. If you would rather continue north, turn to
252
219-221

219

The pain‘in your lungs forces you to rise to the
surface for air. Unfortunately, one of the Troglo-
dytes sees you and yells to his comrades. You watch
helplessly as the bowmen take aim, and a hail of
arrows falls on you with fatal impact. Your lifeless
body floats down-river, down into the hidden
depths of the mountain.

220

A dull ‘bong’ sounds from the bell like a death toil.
Everything around you starts to vibrate, and you
grit your teeth as your head too starts to shudder.
Your whole body is trembling and you fall to the
floor. You quiver and shake, writhing convulsively
on the floor as the vibrations intensify. Lose 2 SKILL
points and 2 STAMINA points. You search desper-
ately for a way of stopping the bell. Will you:

scream as loud as you can? Turn to 61
Try to deaden the bell with
your boot? Turn to 346

221

The tunnel leads into a damp, high-ceilinged cavern
with a rock-strewn floor. Long dripping teeth-like
stalactites hang down threateningly, their constant
dripping creating milky pools on the floor. The
tunnel carries on through an archway carved in the
shape of a demonic mouth. If you wish to search the
chamber, turn to 374. If you would rather head
straight for the archway, tum to 60.

222-224

222
You recognize the beast — it is a MANTICORE,
Taking heed of the poem’s warning, you watch out
for its tail which sprouts a profusion of sharp spikes,
thick and hard as iron bolts, at its tip. If you have a
shield, turn to 196. If you are not carrying a shield,
turn to 6.

223
You step confidently on to the first pole and stride
across to the next. As you land on the third pole, it
immediately releases a shower of sharp splinters,
each several centimetres long. Lose 2 Luck points.
They fly out in all directions at great speed, and you
cannot avoid being hit. Roll two dice for the number
of splinters that sink into your flesh. Each one
reduces your STAMINA by one point. If you are still
alive, you manage to scramble over the remaining
poles and sit down to the painful task of removing
the splinters from your body. After resting for a
while, you set off east again. Turn to 313.

ae
There does not appear to be any way of travelling
further north. You turn around and walk back down
the tunnel, passing the wooden chair. You soon
arrive at the junction and turn right to head west.
Turn to 43.
225-227

225
You react quickly and manage to cleave the Blood-
beast’s outstretched tongue with one swipe of your
blade. The beast screams in pain and hurls itself
forward to try and clasp you between its blood-filled
jaws. This will be a fight to the death.

BLOODBEAST

As soon as you win your first Attack Round, Test
your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 97. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 21.

SKILL 12 STAMINA 10

226

The meat contains herbs which will increase your
strength. Add 3 to your STAMINA score. You may
either walk over to the alcove if you have not done
so already ~ turn to 41 — or leave the chamber to
continue west — turn to 83

227
Still smiling, the old man looks at you. ‘Wrong,’ he
says quietly. Turn to 85.

228-229

228

You reach down into the hole. Suddenly your blood
tuns cold as you feel something warm and sticky
wrapping itself around your arm. You manage to
pull your arm out of the hole, but a hideous ten-
tacled limb with unbelievably strong suckers is
clinging to your arm. By the time you manage to cut
yourself free, your arm is trembling with pain. Test
your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 150. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 33.

229
As soon as your head goes under the blue light, you
hear the sound of muffled voices. The faces are
no longer laughing, but have changed their ex-
pressions to ones of despair and anguish. A young
girl’s sad face hovers in front of you, and she
begins to whisper a poem. Transfixed you listen
intently, believing that she has a special message
for you as she recites:

‘When corridor doth water meet,
Do not make a quick retreat.
Take a breath and jump deep in
If your Trial you hope to win.’

Memorizing the spirit girl’s poem, you step through
the shaft of light and quickly head on north, Turn to
107.
230-232

230
The tunnel starts to widen, and ahead you see it
open into a huge cavern from where you can hear
the sound of many high-pitched voices. You creep
up to the entrance and take a look inside. There are
about twenty tiny people with long noses and ears
running in a circle around a large golden effigy. Will
you:

Walk up and talk to them? Turn to 88
Try to creep past them? Turn to 5
Drink a Doppelganger Potion
(if you have one)? Turn to 385
231

You find a pool behind the dead Hobgoblins and
take great gulps of the coo] water as fast as you can.
This neutralizes the acid and slowly you begin to
recover. Stillin pain, you stand up and set off north.
Turn to 110

232
if you are unarmed, turn to 286. If you still have
your weapons, turn to 320.
233-235

233 .

You break off a large piece of the mushroom and bite
into it eagerly. Immediately your stomach feels
bloated and you can even see it beginning to bulge
below your belt. Your whole body starts to expand,
bursting out of your clothes with a loud ripping
sound. You grow bigger and bigger, and soon your
face is pressed against the ceiling. The mushrooms
you have eaten are much sought after by wizards for
their growth potions, but to you they spell doom.
You are too large ever to leave the cellar, and your
adventure ends here,

234

A little farther on you come to a section of the tunnel
which is covered with thick green slime. [t looks
threatening, so you decide to test it first with a piece
of cloth. The slime’s corrosive jelly burns the cloth
instantly, leaving no trace. If you are carrying a pair
of stilts, turn to 183. If you do not have them, turn to
207.

235
You have no time to react before the dart thuds into
your thigh. Lose 2 STAMINA points. If you are still
alive, turn to 73.

236-238

236
The fist retracts and prepares to strike again. With
your free hand you draw your sword and try to cut
the handle of the door. Although you do not recog-
nize it, you are being attacked by the fluid form of an
IMITATOR. .

IMITATOR

As soon as you win your first Attack Round, turn to
314.

SKILL 9 STAMINA 8

237
The tunnel makes a sudden left turn and continues
north for as far as you can see. You soon arrive at a
closed wooden door in the left-hand wall. If you
wish to open the door, turn to 12. If you would
rather keep going north, turn to 100.

238

As you fall, you manage to grab the rope with your
hands. Slowly you haul yourself over to the far side
and scramble up on to the floor, You lift the helmet
off the pole and put it on your head. It has been
made by a highly skilled ironsmith. Add 1 sKILL
point. Not wishing to risk walking back across the
tightrope, you decide to crawl along it. Safely back
on firm ground, you step through the archway and
head north up the tunnel. Turn to 291.
239-241

239
Not much farther down the tunnel you come to a
closed door on your left. Putting: your ear to the
door, you listen intently but hear nothing. If you
wish to open the door, turn to 102. lf you wish to
keep walking north, turn to 344.

240
You look down and see the crumpled bodies of the
two Flying Guardians lying motionless on the floor
You start to prise out the idol’s emerald eye with the
lip of your sword. At last it comes free and you are
surprised by its weight when it falls into your hand.
Hoping it may be of use later, you put it in your
backpack. If you now wish to prise out the right eye,
turn to 34. lf you would rather climb down the idol,
turn to 89

241
A brown velvet curtain is draped over an archway in
the eastern wall of the tunnel. If you wish to pull
back the curtain and walk through the archway,
turn to 393. If you would rather continue north, turn
to 291.

242-244

242
You shake your head, trying desperately to stop
yourself from blacking out, but the heat is too much
for you and you fall unconscious to the floor. Roll
two dice. If the total is the same as or less than your
SKILL, turn to 48. If the total is greater than your
SKILL, turn to 366.

243

Covering your nose and mouth with your hand to
avoid breathing in the gas, you follow the Gnome
through the open door, You enter another tunnel, at
the end of which is the welcome sight of daylight.
Much to your surprise, you see the Gnome lying
dead halfway down the tunnel. A crossbow bolt
protrudes from the side of his head. The Gnome, in
his bid for freedom, has fallen foul of Baron Sukum-
vit’s final trap. You walk past him and out into
brilliant sunshine. Turn to goo.

244

He takes your Gold Piece and tells you that in a
northern tunnel there is a wooden chair carved in
the shape of ademon bird. In the arm of the chairis a
secret panel which contains a potion ina glass phial
‘It's a Doppelganger Potion, if I remember right.
Good luck. I hope we meet again outside these
infernal tunnels.’ The man shuffles off and you
continue your journey. Turn to 109.
245-246

245

You have no choice but to open the door, as the wail
$ foo smooth to climb. Taking a deep breath, you
turn the handle and enter a sand-covered pit. There,
standing some ten metres tall on its huge hind legs
in front of large double doors in the opposite wall,
Is an enormous dinosaur-like monster. It has a
tough, mottled green hide and a mouth lined with
razor-sharp teeth, Its jaws open and close with
bone-snapping power, and even you cannot help
trembling as you approach it with your sword
drawn.

PIT FIEND SKILL 12 STAMINA 15

If you win, turn to 258

246

Despite being as careful as possible, your leg
brushes against one of the poles. It immediately
releases a shower of sharp splinters, each several
centimetres long. Lose 2 LUCK points. They fly out
at great speed and in all directions, and you cannot
avoid being hit, Roll two dice for the number of
splinters that sink into your flesh. Each splinter
reduces your STAMINA by one point: If you are still
alive, you sit down to the painful task of removing
the splinters from your body before setting off east.
Turn to 313.
247-248

247

The beast before vou is the dreaded MANTICORE.
The tip of its tail sprouts a profusion of sharp
spikes, thick and hard as iron bolts. Suddenly it
flicks its tail, sending a volley of spikes flying to-
wards you. Roll one die. This is the number ot
spikes that sink into your body. Lose 2 STAMINA
points for each spike. If you are still alive, you
stagger forward to attack the Manticore with your
sword before it has time to unleash any more of its
deadly spikes.

MANTICORE

If you win, turn to 364.

SKILL 11 STAMINA It

248
The doors open into a tunnel running north. You
close the doors behind you and set off once again.
Turn to 214.

249-250

249

You just have time to hear the Gnome say, ‘One
crown and two skulls’, before a white bolt of energy
shoots out from the lock into your chest, knocking
vou unconscious. Roll one die, add 1 to the number
and reduce your STAMINA by the total, If you are
still alive, you come to and are told by the Gnome to
try again. You know you placed one gem in the
correct slot, but which one? You sigh and tentatively
try anew combination.

A B C

Emerald Diamond Sapphire Turn to 16
Diamond Sapphire Emerald Turn to 392
Sapphire Emerald Diamond Turn to 177
Emerald Sapphire Diamond Turn to 287
Diamond Emerald Sapphire Turn to 132
Sapphire Diamond Emerald Turn to 249

250

As you run for the door, the old man calls out
behind you, ‘Do not run, nobody escapes me. Stop,
or] shall turn you to stone this instant!” Will you:

Keep on running? Turn to 44
Turn to attack him with your

sword? Turn to 195
Tell him you will answer his

question? Turn to 382
251-253

251
Once again the mysterious voice calls out, only this
time, to your great surprise, in a far less threatening
tone, ‘Good, my master likes those who show spirit

Take this gift to help you. It will grant you one wish,
but one wish only. Farewell.’ A gold ring magically
appears out of nowhere and landsat your feet witha
gentle tinkle. You pick it up and put it on one of your
fingers. The door opens and you step back into the
tunnel to continue north. Turn to 344.

252

The tunnel continues north for quite a distance
before coming to a dead end. The mouth of a chute
protrudes from the western wall, and it appears to
be the only alternative to turning back. You decide
to risk it and climb into the chute. You slide gently
down and emerge into a room, landing on your
back. Turn to go.

253

You take the bone out of your backpack and throw it
down the stairs. The barking grows louder, chang-
ing to snarls and growls when the bone lands on the
floor. You walk slowly down the steps with your
sword drawn and see two huge black GUARD
DOGS fighting over the bone. You run quickly past
them and on down the tunnel. Turn to 315,

254-256

254
You draw your sword and advance slowly towards
the huge, slimy Rock Grub.

ROCK GRUB

If you win, turn to 76. You may Escape after two
Attack Rounds by running west down the tunnel.
Turn to 117,

SKILL 7 STAMINA 11

255

As you run round the narrow path, you suddenly
start to feel dizzy. The gas from the pool is taking
effect: your vision starts to blur and you lose your
balance. You are only half aware of the Bloodbeast’s
tongue as it wraps itself around your leg and drags
you into the pool of slime. After being predigested
by the vile slime, the hideous Bloodbeast will con-
sume you at its leisure.

256
Remembering the old man’s advice, you search the
arm of the chair for a secret panel. You find an
almost invisible crack in the arm, which you start to
press and squeeze. Suddenly a tiny panel springs
out of the arm and you see a glass phial lying in a
cavity. You pick it out and read the label: ‘Doppel-
ganger Potion - one dose only. This liquid will make
you assume the shape of any nearby living being.’
You place the strange potion in your backpack and
continue north, Turn to 188
257-260

257
Inside one of the Orcs’ pockets you find one Gold
Piece and a hollow wooden tube. You put your
findings in your backpack and set off west. Turn to

164.

258
You are exhausted and sit down for a rest on the tail
of the dead beast. Looking down at your feet, you
suddenly notice an iron ring poking up through the
sand. If you wish to pull the ring, turn to 95. If you
would rather leave the pit via the double doors, turn
to 248

259
Ignoring the pain, you run on, Ahead you see an
underground river running east to west through the
cavern, with a wooden bridge crossing over it. You
look behind and see the Troglodytes in hot pursuit
If you wish to run over the bridge, turn to 318. If you
wish to dive into the river, turn to 47.

260
You just manage to grab the idol’s earlobe and
regain your footing. You scramble over its face and
sit down on the bridge of its nose. You draw your
sword and consider which jewelled eye to prise out
first. If you wish to prise out the left eye, turn to 166
If you wish to prise out the right eye, turn to 140

261-263

261
Despite all your efforts, you cannot get the lasso off
the idol’s neck. Finally you give up and abandon it
to Whoever may come after you. There is nothing
else of interest in the cavern, so you walk over te the
northern wall and enter the tunnel. Turn to 239.

262

The door opens into another tunnel running north.
Ahead you see two stone fountains, one on either
side of the tunnel, carved in the shape of cherubs.
Water spouts from their mouths and cascades into
small bowls at their feet. Will you:

Drink at the fountain on your

left? Turn to 337
Drink at the fountain on your
night? Turn to 173

Continue your walk north? Turn to 368
263

The door opens into another tunnel. Walking west,

vou soon arrive at a door in the north wall, If you

wish to open the door, turn to 153. If you would

rather continue west, turn to 74.
264-267

264
Ahead in the dim light you see two HOBGOBLINS
fighting, punching and kicking each other furi-
ously. There is a Jeather bag lying on the floor, and it
seems to be this that they are fighting over. Will you:

Try to talk to them? Turn to 130

Attack them with your sword? Turn to 51

Try to slip by them unnoticed? Turn to 355
265

You rub your magic ring and wish for the Mirror
Demon to be transported back to its own world,
never to return. Still advancing towards you, it
starts to shimmer and fade away. Then it vanishes
completely, and you are able to continue your quest
north. Turn to 122.

266
You search through the cupboards and boxes in
Ivy’s room, but you find nothing except an old
bone, which you may take with you if you wish.
Leaving the chamber by the east dvor, you now find
vourself standing at the end of another tunnel. Turn

to 305.

267
The tunnel ends shortly at a junction, Looking left
and right, you see a narrow passage disappearing
into the dim distance. If you wish to head west, turn
70 352. If vou wish to go east, turn to 68.
268-270

268

You leap forward and try to grab the leader to use as
a hostage. However, the Troglodytes are ready for
your move, and six of their bowmen immediately
shoot their arrows at you. Their aim is deadly accu-
rate and all six arrows find their mark. Lifeless, you
fall to the floor. The Troglodytes have ended your
journey abruptly.

269

You empty the contents of the jar into your hand
and apply them to your wounds. Their healing
powers take immediate effect and you feel yourself
erowing stronger. Add 3 STAMINA points. If you
have not done so already, you may either eat the rice
and drink the water -— turn to 330-— or leave the hall,
taking just the diamond with you — turn to 127

270
The lid of the box lifts off easily. Inside you find. two
Gold Pieces and a note written on a small piece of
parchment addressed to you. After placing the gold
in your pocket, you read the message, which says:
‘Well done. At least you have the sense to stop and
take advantage of the token aid given to you. Now |
can advise you that you will need to find and use
several items if you hope to pass triumphantly
through my Deathtrap Dungeon. Signed Sukum-
vit.’ Memorizing the advice on the note, you tear
it into tiny pieces and continue north along the
tunnel. Turn to 66

271~272

271

Just as you are about to release the shield and throw
it over the pit, it slips from your fingers and rolls
away. You are unable to catch it before it falls over
the edge of the pit, clattering down its sides to the
bottom. The loss of your shield reduces your
fighting ability —lose one sxr1.t point. Cursing your
own clumsiness, you step forward, leap across the
pit and land safely on the other side, You waste no
time but head off east. Turn to 237.

272
Although the Bloodbeast is too bulbous and heavy
to climb out of its pool, its long tongue stretches and
wraps itself around your leg. Still unconscious, you
are dragged into its pool of slime. After being pre-
digested by the vile slime, the hideous Bloodbeast

will consume you at its leisure.
273-274

273

The wooden ball smashes into the skull, knocking it
off the plinth and on to the floor. Much to your
surprise, the crossbows do not release their deadly
bolts. You step into the room cautiously and pick
the skull up off the floor. You recognize the yellow
jewelled eyes as topaz, and eagerly pluck them from
their sockets. You put them in your backpack,
wondering whether or not a trap still awaits you in
the room. Will you:

Get down on all fours and craw] out

of the room holding the skull? Turn to 15
Replace the skull on the plinth
before leaving the room? Turn to 204

274
You step nervously on to the rope, not daring to
look down. Halfway across, you start to panic and
lose your footing, Roll two dice. If the total is the
same as or less than your SKILL, turn to 238. If the
total is higher than your SKILL, turn to 359.

275—277

275
Thick smoke rises up from the floor where the acid
has fallen from the broken jug. You craw] along the
floor desperately trying to find drinkable water in
the shallow pools of the dripping tunnel. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 231. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 309.

276

As you try to charge down the door with your
shoulder, you hear the shrieking voices of the
Troglodytes coming down the tunnel. You are
trapped and draw your sword. The Troglodytes
approach you, their bows drawn, and a hail of
arrows strikes you with fatal impact. Your lifeless
body slumps to the ground in the depths of Death-
trap Dungeon.

277
The tunnel takes a sharp right turn and then, a
hundred metres ahead, comes to a junction. Look-
ing left, you see two bodies lying on the floor. You
decide to go and investigate. Turn to 338.
278-280

278
Your blade strikes one of the Bloodbeast’s real eyes
with devastating effect. It slumps back into its pool,
thrashing about in a frenzy. You seize your oppor-
tunity and run round the side of the pool to the
tunnel exit, Turn to 134.

279
You arrive at a junction in the tunnel, A new branch
leads west, but the wet footprints you have been
following continue north. You decide to keep fol-

lowing the footprints. Turn to 32.

280
The tunnel continues east for quite a long way
before reaching a junction. The walls, ceiling and
floor of the tunnel leading south are covered witha
thick green slime, You decide it would be safer to
head north. Turn to 218.

~

281

281

With one swipe of your trusty blade you behead the
Boa Constrictor. You uncoil its massive body from
around the Elf and try to resuscitate her. Her eyes
open a little, but you can see that there is no hope
She looks at you and smiles, then says in a whisper,
‘Thank you. I know it’s too late for me, but I will tell
you what I have learned. Your way out lies ahead,
but you need gems to unlock the final door. One of
them is a diamond, but I do not know what the
others are. Alas, I have not found a diamond, but
would urge you to look for one. Good luck.’ Her
eyes close and she slumps down on to the cold floor.
You watch sadly as she breathes her last. Knowing
she would not mind, you take two of her daggers
and search her leather backpack. Inside you find
some unleavened bread, a mirror and a bone charm
in the shape of a monkey. If you wish to eat the
bread, turn to 399. If you would rather just take the
mirror and charm and return to the tunnel to head
north, turn to 192.

282-284

282

The tunnel soon ends at a junction. Standing there
alone and wondering which way to go is one of your
rivals. Itis one of the Barbarians. You call out to him,
but at first he does not answer, he merely stares at
you coldly, his hands firmly gripping his axe. You
walk up to him and ask which way he ts heading. He
grunts his reply, saying that he is going west, and
you may go with him if you wish. If you would like
to head west with the Barbarian, turn to 22. If you
would rather decline his offer and head east alone,
turn to 388.

_ 283
You have to squeeze yourself deep into the crack to
conceal yourself completely. From this cramped
position you are unable to see the owner of the feet
that shuffle slowly by. A minute later all is quiet
again, so you pull yourself back out into the tunnel
and head west. Turn to 109.

284
Have you drunk a potion found in a black leather
book? If you have, turn to 398. If you have not
swallowed this potion, turn to 57.
285-287

285

You land heavily on your back, but luckily your
backpack cushions your fall. Lose 1 SKILL point and
2 STAMINA points. The darkness is almost pitch
black at the bottom of the pit, and you craw] along
the floor, groping in front of you. Suddenly your
hand touches something cold, hard and smooth.
The object is small and round, but you cannot figure
out what itis. You place itin your backpack, hoping
to see what it is once out of the pit. You continue to
crawl forward and soon reach the pit wall. It is too
smooth to climb, and you have to cut hand- and
toe-holds in it with your sword. This takes a long
time, but finally you climb out of the pit on the east
side. You immediately check out the object in your
backpack, and discover that you have found an orb
of blood-red ruby. You are absolutely delighted and
head off east in high spirits, whistling softly under
your breath, Turn to 237.

286

It was obviously a mistake to drop your weapons
earlier, but at least you can now take those of the
dead Ninja. You select one of his long knives and his
long curved sword. Its steel cutting edge is excep-
tionally hard, and you cannot help but admire its
awesome beauty. Add 4 sKILL points and turn to
320,

287
You just have time to hear the Gnome say, ‘One
crown and two skulls’, before a white bolt of energy

288

shoots out from the lock into your chest, knocking
you unconscious, Roll one die, add 1 to the number
and reduce your STAMINA by the total. If you are
still alive, you come to and are told by the Gnome to
try again. You know you placed one gem in the
correct slot, but which one? You sigh and tentatively
try anew combination.

A B Cc

Emerald Diamond Sapphire Turn to 16
Diamond Sapphire Emerald Turn to 392
Sapphire Emerald Diamond Turn to 177
Emerald Sepphire Diamond Turn to 287
Diamond Emerald Sapphire Turn to 132
Sapphire Diamond Emerald Turn to 249

288

You look to your left and see Throm standing over
the Cave Troll he has slain. Blood is pouring out
from a deep cut in his shoulder, but it does not seem
to worry him. You search the bodies of the Cave
Trolls, but find nothing apart from a bone ring on a
leather cord hanging round the neck of one of them.
The ring is engraved with a symbol which Throm
recognizes. He explains that it must have belonged
to druids of the north and that an ancient talisman
such as this will increase your powers if your body is
able to accept it. Throm will not touch it, and advises
you to leave it well alone. If you wish to put the ring
on, turn to 64. If you would rather continue east
with Throm, turn to 221,
289-291

289
The drape rises to the top of the cage and there, to
your horror, you see the face of an aged woman
whose hair is a mass of seething snakes. It is the
dreaded MEDUSA! Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 216. If you are Unlucky, turn to 19.

290
Roll two dice. If the total is eight, turn to 152. If the
total is any number other than eight, turn to 121

291
The tunnel continues north a long way before turn-
ing sharp right. Around the corner you come to a
dead end. Only the mouth of a wooden chute in the
wall offers any hope of further progress. You decide
to take a chance and climb into the chute. You slide
gently down and emerge into a room, landing on
your back. Turn to go.

292-293

292
A door comes into view in the left-hand wall of the
tunnel. You listen carefully at the door but hear
nothing. The door is not locked and the handle
turns easily. If you wish to open the door, turn to 93.
If you would rather keep walking along the tunnel,
turn to 230.

293
Following the three sets of wet footprints along the
west passage of the tunnel, you soon arrive at a
junction. If you wish to continue west, following
two sets of footprints, turn to 137. If you wish to
head north, following the third set of footprints,
turn to 387.

294-295

294

You pull the dagger from your belt with your free
hand and hack at the Bloodbeast’s tongue. The
beast screams in pain and rolls forward as far as it
can to try and clasp you between its blood-filled
jaws. You must fight it from the floor with your
dagger. Reduce your sk1L1 by 2 during this combat
because you are not fighting with your sword.

BLOODBEAST

As soon as you win your first Attack Round, Test
your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 97. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 21.

SKILL 12 STAMINA 10

295
Running towards the archway, you stumble over a
rock and lose your footing. You land sprawled on
the floor, and before you have time to get upagain, a
stalactite crashes down on top of you, its pointed ti p
piercing your leg. Lose > 5TAMINA points. Ifyou are
still alive, turn lo 206.

296-298

296

Ahead you see that the tunnel turns a corner,
beyond which it continues north. You stop before
the corner, startled by the sound of high-pitched
voices whispering and sniggering. If you wish to
draw your sword and took round the corner, turn to
49. If you would rather walk back to the junction to
head north, turn to 2414.

297
Losing your hard-earned possessions is becoming a
bit of a problem. Lose 1 Luck point. Without even
pausing to thank you, Ivy pushes you out of her
chamber through a door in the east wall, and you
find yourself standing at the end of another tunnel.

Turn to 305.

298
You see a backpack propped up against the tunnel
wall. You wonder if it belongs to one of your rivals
If you wish to look inside the backpack, turn to 304
tf you would rather continue north, turn to 279
299-300

299

The door opens into a large chamber, where you are
shocked to see one of your rivals, who has obviously
meta sudden gory death. It is one of the Barbarians,
and he is impaled on several long iron spikes which
are fixed to a frame that has sprung out of the floor
A lot of rubbish and debris litters the floor, conceal-
ing a hidden trip-wire which he must have stepped
on and thus released the spiked frame. In the far
wallis an alcove, in which you can see a silver goblet
standing on a small wooden table. Will you:

Walk over to search the Barbarian? Turn to 126
Walk towards the alcove? Turn to 41
Close the door and continue west? Turn to 83

300
You swing your sword against the mirror with all
your might, but to no effect. the mirror does not
break, and the Mirror Demon keeps advancing. If
you wish to try and smash the mirror again, turn to
141. If you would rather attack the Mirror Demon
instead, turn to 327.
301-302

301
The pipe is wet and slimy, but you crawl on into the
dank darkness, slithering and sliding as you go.
Suddenly your hand touches something hard and
square which feels as if itis made of wood. It rattles
as you shake it, and you decide you must be holding
a box. If you wish to crawl back out of the pipe and
examine your find, turn to 162, If you would rather
press on further down the pipe, taking the box with
you to examine later, turn to 4.

302
After about twenty minutes the Dwarf reappears on
the balcony. He calls down to you, saying, ‘Well, I
do have an interesting problem on my hands. Pre-
pare to fight your next opponent.’ The wooden door
rises once again and you are surprised to see a
familiar face. It is Throm! He is cut and badly
bruised, and doesn’t seem to recognize you. He is
clearly delirious as he staggers forward with his axe
raised to attack you. The Dwarf laughs and says,
‘The cobra bit him, but he has the strength of an ox
and managed to carry on, even though most men
would have died. Now you must fight him to decide
finally which of you will continue the Trial of Cham-
pions.’ You shout abuse at the Dwarf, protesting
against the cruelty of such a contest. He merely
laughs, and you have no option but to defend
yourself against poor Throm.

THROM SKILL 10 STAMINA 12
Despite his wounds, Throm is immensely strong. If
you win, turn to 379.

303-394

393

With your free hand, you reach into your backpack
and take out the jug. Uncorking it with your teeth,
you pour the acid over the door, which is in fact
the fluid form of an IMITATOR. A jet of smoke
rises from it with a loud hissing sound as the
acid immediately starts to burn the Imitator. It
melts rapidly and you are able to step away
unharmed. Having no other choice, you some-
what apprehensively turn the handle of the other
door. Turn to 262

304

There is a single Gold Piece lying in the bottom of
the backpack. As you reach for it, you suddenly feel
a light tickling movement on the back of your hand.
You withdraw your hand slowly, trying to control
your mounting panic, and are horrified to see a
BLACK WIDOW SPIDER. Before you can shake it
off, it sinks its poisonous fangs deep into your wrist.
Lose 6 STAMINA points. If you are still alive, turn to
20.
305-306

395
The tunnel ends at a flight of stone steps leading
downwards. From the floor below you can hear the
sound of barking dogs. Have you got an old bone
with you? If you have, turn to 253. If you have not,
turn to 148

306

Before you can take a single step towards the Lep-
rechauns, one of them throws some sparkling dust
at you. You are immediately frozen to the spot,
unable to move a muscle. You watch helplessly
as the Leprechauns rummage through your back-
pack and run off with all your possessions, leaving
your backpack empty. Lose 2 LUCK points. About
an hour later the freezing effect of the dust wears off
and feeling returns to your limbs. You are angry at
your loss and stomp off north, determined to have
your revenge. Turn to 29,

307-310

307
The cupboard contains a wooden mallet and ten
iron spikes, which you put in your backpack while
wondering which door to open. If you wish to open
the west door, turn to 263. If you wish to open the
north door, turn to 136.

308

The Medusa shrieks as you enter her cage, keeping
your eyes firmly closed and slashing your sword
wildly from side to side. You feel the blade sink
deep into her side and hear a loud thud as she
slumps heavily to the ground. You open your eyes
again and shudder at the sight of the prostrate
figure of the Medusa. Her gown is fastened by a
large brooch bearing a single bright red gem, Itis a
garnet, and you prise it out of its setting, put it in
vour pocket and leave the room to head north. Turn
to 316.

309
You scramble frantically around the floor in search
of a pool of water, but do not find one. The acid
burns with a searing pain deep down in your throat,
Lose 3 STAMINA points. If you are still alive, Test
your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 231. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 193.

310
You reach the far wall of the chamber and see two
doors. If you wish to open the door to vour leit, turn
to 339. If you wish to open the door to your right,
turn to 262.
311-314

311
The Barbanian reluctantly agrees to your alternative
suggestion. You both step back and take running
jumps over the pit. Landing safely on the other side,
you continue down the tunnel. The Barbarian, who
is leading the way, suddenly stumbles on a floor
stone which tilts forward, triggering a boulder
loosely set in the ceiling. It crashes down on top of
him, knocking him to the floor and crushing his
skull. You must continue your quest alone. Turn to

325:

312
The razor-sharp disc whistles past your head and
bites deep into one of the pillars. Turning to face
your would-be assassin, you prepare yourself as he
advances, his long sword drawn.

NINJA SKILL 11 STAMINA 9

If you win, turn to 232.

313
The tunnel ends at a junction. The footprints you
have been following turn north and you decide to

stay with them. Turn to 32.

314
Your sword cleaves the handle and, being separated
from its parent body, you watch the membrane
shrivel away and drop on to the floor. Having no
other choice, you somewhat apprehensively turn
the handle of the other door. Turn to 262.
315-317

315

The tunnel veers sharply to the left and comes to an
end at a high wall in which there is a door. You hear
a ferocious roar from the other side of the wall and
you wonder what gargantuan beast could make
such a noise. If you have a coil of rope and a
grappling iron, turn to 12g. If you do not have these
items, turn to 245.

316
The tunnel continues for quite a distance before you
reach a junction, If you wish to head west into the
new tunnel, turn to 296. If you would rather con-
tinue north, turn to 241.

317

Tapping the side of the borehole with your sword,
you tread your way blindly through the sticky
slime. You follow its twisting and turning course for
what seems an age and begin to wonder where it
might lead. Suddenly you hear a slithering sound
up ahead. You freeze with fear, your eyes desper-
ately trying to pierce the pitch-black darkness. Be-
fore you realize what is happening, you are gripped
round the neck by the powerful mandibles of
another Rock Grub. It is the mate of the Rock Grub
you killed and has been attracted by the smell of
blood on your sword. It squeezes harder until your
neck snaps like a small twig. Your adventure ends
here.

318-320

318
After crossing the bridge, you run across the cavern
floor. At last you see a tunnel in the far wall, which
you race down until you reach its end at a heavy
wooden door. The door is locked. If you have an
iron key, turn to 86. If you do not havea key, turn to
276.

319
Your armour and sword weigh you down more than
you think. In mid-air you realize with horror that
you are not going to reach the other side of the pit.
You crash into the side of the pit, some two metres
below the rim, and tumble head over heels to the
bottom. Turn to 285.

320
You decide to search the Ninja and find a cloth bag
in the folds of his robes. Inside it is a flask of water,
some rice wrapped in a palm leaf, a jar of ointment
and a beautiful diamond. Will you:

Eat the rice and drink the water? Turn to 330
Rub some of the ointment into

your wounds? Turn to 269
Take only the diamond.and

leave the hail? Turn to 127
321-323

321
You pull the cord and watch the drape as it rises up
the sides of an iron cage. The woman's voice urges
you to be quick, telling you that the room is booby-
trapped so that the floor will fall away in one minute
because of your extra weight. If you still wish to help
her, turn to 289. If you would rather leave the room
and head north up the tunnel, turn to 316

322
You pass the wooden chair and soon get back to the
junction, lurning tight to head west, Turn to 43

323
After tying the rope around the rock, you lower
yourself sluwly to the bottom of the pit. Throm
retrieves his rope by shaking it off the rock, and you
set off together down the new tunnel, Turn to 194,

324-325

324
Have you talked to the crippled servant of the

Trialmasters? If you have, turn to 256. lf you have
not, turn to 7g

325

You stand up and carry on down the tunnel. Sud-
denly you see daylight at the end of the tunnel, You
run forward towards the most beautiful sight you
have seen for a long ume, a clear blue sky and green
trees. You walk as fast as you can towards the end of
the tunnel and emerge expecting to see the welcom-
ing sight of cheering people. But there is no hero’s
welcome from the people all around you. They are
all dead. You are standing in a cold chamber littered
with armoured skeletons and bodies, The exit to
victory was just an illusion. Oniy the corpses of the
past adventurers are real, Utterly dejected, you
walk back towards the tunnel, but hit an invisible
barrier. You are trapped in this ghoulish place and
destined to end your days in the chamber of the
dead.
326-327

326

Ahead you see that the tunnel turns sharply to the
left. You turn the corner and almost bump straight
into two flerce-looking ORCS, armed with morning
stars and wearing leather armour, You are totally
imprepared, and as you draw your sword, one of
them swings its morning star at you. Roll one die. lf
you roll a1 or 2, turn to g1. If you roll a3 or 4, turn to
189. If you roll a5 or 6, turn to 380.

327
The Mirror Demon, being solely intent on grabbing
your arm, makes no attempt to defend itself.

MIRROR DEMON ) sxkikt 10 STAMINA 10

If, during any Attack Round, the Mirror Demon’‘s
Attack Strength is greater than your own, turn to 8.
if you manage to defeat the Mirror Demon without
it ever winning an Attack Round, turn to 92.
328-329

328

You gaze round Ivy’s room. Seeing a painting of
another Troll hanging on the wall, you ask her if he
is any relation. Suddenly her mood and expression
change. She loosens her grip on you and smiles,
saying, ‘Oh yes. That is my dear beloved brother,
Sourbelly. He has done very well for himself down
south in Port Blacksand. He is now an Imperial
Guard in Lord Azzur’s elite troop. I’m very proud of
him.’ lvy stares at the painting and continues to
praise her brother. If you wish to slip out of the
chamber through the door in the east wall, turn to
125. If you would rather continue the conversation,
turn to gg.

329

You step up to the mirror and are amused by your
distorted reflection. Your head looks as large as a
pumpkin and your face is exceedingly strange. Sud-
denly, without warning, a terrible pain pounds
through your head and you try to look away from
the mirror, but you are unable to. Some evil force is
keeping your eyes glued to your own reflection.
You grip your head with your hands and realize
with horror that it is expanding. You can withstand
it no longer and, blacking out with the pain, you fall
unconscious to the floor, never to wake.

330-332

Bee
The Ninja’s rations are basic but welcome. Add 1
STAMINA point. If you have not done so already,
you may either rub some of the ointment into your
wounds — turn to 269 — or Jeave the hall, taking just
the diamond — turn to 427

331
Touching the parchment has precisely the effect you
had feared. The skeleton lurches forward and, ris-
ing from its chair in a series of jerky movements,
raises its sword to strike you. Lunging sideways,
you draw your sword to defend yourself.

SKELETON WARRIOR SKILL 8 STAMINA 6

If you win, turn to 71.

332
Your gem drops into the pool with a dull ‘plop’. As
you wait for something to happen, you start to feel
faint. The gas rising from the pool is toxic, and you
slump to the floor unconscious. Test your Luck. If
vou are Lucky, turn to 53. If you are Unlucky, turn
tO 272.
333-334

333
You hear footsteps and suddenly the trapdoor is

thrown back. For a few seconds you are completely
blinded by the bright light from the room above and
do not see the Goblin thrusting his spear down-
wards, or hear his sadistic laughter as the point
pierces your neck, Your adventure ends here on the
stone steps of the tunnel

334
You try to wrench the tongue from your leg with

your bare hands, but fail, Slowly you are dragged
:nlo the pool of slime, where you will be pre-
digested and Jater consumed by the hideous Blood-
beast.

335-338

335

Still running as fast as you can, you dive into the
river. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 67. If
you are Unlucky, turn to 101.

336
The wristband was made and cursed by a Hag. lt
slows down your reactions and dulls your senses
Reduce your sKILL by 4 points. You kick the tunnel
wall in anger and stomp off north. Turn to 298.

337

The cool water is refreshing, but comes from a
source which has been cursed by a Hag. Add 1
STAMINA point and lose 2 Luck points. If you have
not done so already, you may either drink from the
other fountain — turn to 173 — or continue north —
turn to 368

338

The bodies are those of two Orc guards. Atleast one
of your rivals in the Trial of Champions must still be
ahead of you, A quick search of the bodies produces
nothing apart from a necklace of teeth hanging
around the neck of one of the Orcs. If you wish to
wear the necklace yourself, turn to 123. If you would
rather set off north without the necklace, turn to
282.
hn

\

£

c
<

339-340

339
As you touch the door handle, it goes soft in your

hand, and when you try to pull your hand away,
you find it is glued to the handle. A giant fist then
forms in the centre of the door panel and shoots
forward, punching you in the stomach. Lose 1
STAMINA point. If you have a jug of acid, turn to
303. If you do not, turn to 236

340

Your fear gives you a new surge of energy and
somehow your tired legs manage to keep you in
front of the boulder. Ahead on your right you see
the welcome sight of a doorway. You lunge at the
door and mercifully it flies open. The boulder thun-
ders past and you are left lying exhausted on the
floor of a large room. Turn to 381.
341-342

341
A crippled man with shackled feet shuffles into

sight carrying a wooden tray laden with bread and
water. He looks tired and miserable and, quite
unmoved by the sight of you, tries to walk past. Will
you:

Talk to him? Turn to 367
Take the bread and water off

his tray? Turn to 38
Offer him some of your provisions

(if you have any left)? Turn to 169

342

Your reactions are slow because of the poison in
your system, and although you try to jump over the
outstretched tongue, your legs will not lift you high
enough. The sticky tongue wrapsitself around your
leg and starts pulling you towards the pool. You are
dragged to the ground and are unable to unsheathe
your sword. If you have a dagger, turn to 294. If you
do not have a dagger, turn to 334

343

343
In their twittering voices, the Truglodytes explain

the rules of Run of the Arrow. They will shoot an
arrow into the distance, and you will be allowed to
walk unharmed to the point where it lands. How-
ever, you must walk barefoot, and you can see that
the floor of the cavern is littered with sharp stones

As soon as you reach the arrow, the Troglodytes will
start to chase you, and if they catch you, they will
kill you. Suddenly one of the Troglodytes releases
an arrow high into the air, It lands a long way away,
and immediately the Troglodytes urge you to walk
towards it. As you walk slowly towards the arrow,
you hear the Troglodytes screaming excitedly be-
hind you. On reaching the arrow, you look round to
see the Troglodytes wave their arms in the air and
set off after you. You start running as fast as you
can, your feet bleeding from the cuts inflicted by the
sharp stones and rocks. Lose 1 STAMINA point.
Ahead you see an underground river running east
to west across the cavern floor, with a wooden
bridge crossing it. If you wish to run over the bridge,
turn to 318. If you wish to dive into the river, turn to

47.

344-346

344
The tunnel twists and turns but keeps steadily

north, Ahead you see a thin shaft of blue light
streaming down from the ceiling to the floor. It
sparkles and shimmers, and you can see images of
laughing faces in the light. If you wish to walk
through the light, turn to 229. If you would rather
walk round the lighL, turn to 107.

345
You are about to enter the room when the Potion of

Trap Detection begins to work and you are filled
with a ternble premonition of danger. The room is
set with a deadly trap. You decide not to go in and
continue north along the tunnel, Turn to 252.

346

You pull your boot off your foot and force yourselt
to reach up and hold it against the bell. Slowly the
bell stops vibrating and the pain in your body
gradually eases. You manage to stand up, but you
do not release your boot from the bell until it be-
comes completely still, You put your boot back on
your foot and then continue your journey west
furn to 362.
347-349

347

The Dwarf shakes his head, saying, ‘All brawn and
no brain is not enough to master the Trial of Cham-
pions. I regret you have failed. You will not be
allowed to leave in case you impart its secrets to
others. However, you have done well to get so far
and | will appoint you my servant for the coming
years to prepare the dungeon for its new con-
testants.’

348
You lunge at the Bloodbeast, -trying to avoid the
tongue which flicks out to grab your leg. Roll two
dice. If the total is the same as or less than your
SKILL, turn to 225. If the total is greater than your
SKILL, turn to 159.

349
You lower yourself down the rope into the pit with

one hand, using the other to grip your sword. The
Pit Fiend is one of the most fearsome beasts you
have ever seen, and you know this is to be one of the
hardest fights of your life.

PIT FIEND

If you win, turn to 258.

SKILL 12 STAMINA 15

350-351

350

The Giant Fly dives down and seizes you with four
of its legs. It climbs quickly back to the roof of the
cavern and you find yourself dangling helplessly in
its grasp. Then, to your horror, it suddenly releases
its grip and you fall ten metres to the floor, landing
heavily, Roll one die and deduct the number from
yout STAMINA score. If you are still alive, you draw
your sword just in time as the Giant Fly swoops
down to try and recapture you. Turn to 39.

351
The idol is very smooth and will be difficult to climb.
Do you have any rope? If you do, turn to 396. If you
do not, turn to 186.
ret =

Fare

352-353

352

Ahead you hear the sound of rocks being ground
and crushed. The noise grows louder and suddenly
you realize that the wail on your right is starting
to collapse. Terrified, you watch asa large, hideous
worm-like creature with a gaping mouth and
extraordinarily powerful mandibles slithers through
a hole in the wall. Its great jaws continue to crunch
the rock as it turns its head slowly from side to side,
feeling the cool air in the tunnel, It appears to be
totally blind, but seems to know of your presence,
perhaps sensing the heat of your body. It starts to
slither towards you with its mandibles wide apart to
attack. If you wish to fight the ROCK GRUB, turn
to 254. lf you would rather run back down the
tunnel to the junction to head east, turn to 68.

353
Before you have time to get out of the way, the

boulder smashes into your shoulder. Lose 1 SKILL
point and 4 STAMINA points. If you are still alive,
turn to 325.

354-356

354
The pill makes you feel as though the whole world is

against you, Lose 2 Luck points. The Dwarf tells
you that you can now go on to the second stage of
the test. He reaches for a wicker basket which, he
informs you, contains a snake. He tips up the basket
and the snake drops out on to the floor. It is a cobra
and it rears up in the air, ready to strike, The Dwarf
tells you that he wishes to test your reactions. You
must grasp the cobra bare-handed below its head,
avoiding its deadly fangs. You crouch down on the
floor, tensing yourself for the moment at which to
seize it. Roll two dice, If the total is the same as or
less than your SkI1.1, turn to 55. Hf the total is greater
than your SK1LI, turn to 202,

355
You creep up behind the fighting Hobgoblins and,

leaping out of the shadows, push them into the wall
as you run by. You look back to see them sprawled
on the floor and chuckle to yourself as you hurry on
north. Turn to 110.

356

There is an opening on the left-hand side of the
tunnel wall. You are standing at the entrance of a
large cavern, from which you hear a girl's voice
crying for help. You can just make out the shape of a
human figure rolling about on the floor at the back
of the cavern. If you wish to enter fhe cavern and
investigate, turn to 170. [f you would rather con-
tinue north along the tunnel, turn to 192,

357-358

357
The Bloodbeast flops around awkwardly in its pool,

and the smell of the poisonous fumes makes you
reich as gas bubbles break the surface and con-
taminate the atmosphere. Will you:

Run round the side of its pool
towards the tunnel?

Throw a gem into its poal
(if you have one)?

Attack it with your sword?

Turn to 255

Turn to 332
Turn to 180

358
You Jose your balance and tumble headlong to the
floor. Lose 2 STAMINA points, You decide against
trying to climb the idol again, and run forward to the
tunnel in the northern walt, Turn to 239.

359-360

35
You fall off the rope and tumble head over heels into
the chasm. You smash your head on a rocky out-
crop, and by the time you hit the bottom of the
chasm you are already dead.

360

After paying off the old man, you climb into the
wicker basket and watch as he tilts his head back
and shouts, ‘Pull it up, Ivy!’ The rope goes taut and
the basket rises jerkily off the ground. As you are
hauled higher and higher, the old man calls out to
you, saying, ‘You'll tike Ivy, she’s a nice girl. We call
her Poison Ivy!’ He starts to laugh uncontrollably
and you wonder somewhat apprehensively just
who is hauling you up. The basket goes through the
ceiling and you find yourself in a small chamber,
face to face with an ugly old female TROLL. Her
face is hairy and covered with warts. With a huge
hand she reaches forward and hauls you out of the
basket, which she then !ets fall to the floor below.
She grabs you round the throat and says in a husky
voice, ‘I want paying too!” Will you:

Offer her something from your

backpack? Turn to 297
Try to talk your way out of

giving her anything? Turn to 328
Attack her with your sword? Turn to 211

361-363

361

The Pit Fiend’s jaws snap at the monkey charm and
pluck it out of the air. Suddenly its jaws spring open
again, forced apart by the charm, which has ex-
panded to fill its mouth. While the Pit Fiend
thrashes around in the pit, trying to get rid of the
charm, you lower yourself down into the pit to
reach the double doors. In its mad rage, the Pit
Fiend tries to crush you against the side of the wall
with its massive body. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 82. If you are Unlucky, turn to 377.

362
The tunnel veers sharply to the right and continues
north for as far as you can see. You hear a
tremendous commotion in the distance, growling
and snarling and howling. You draw your sword
and set off in the direction of the noise. Turn to 264.

363
The food and drink are excellent, and you feel much
better. Add 2 stamina points. Fully satisfied, you
sit down and await the Dwarf’s return. Turn to 302.
364
364

As you are wiping the Manticore’s blood from your
sword, you are surprised to see a smal] man with a
large nose suddenly jump out from behind one of
the marble pillars. He is dressed in a tight-fitting
green tunic and looks quite harmless, although you
are wary of the way he is holding an opaque glass
ball with a shimmering green light. ‘Greetings,’ he
says cheerfully. ‘My name is Igbut the Gnome, and 1
am the Trialmaster for your final test. Needless to
say, my magical powers are great, so you should not
try to attack me. You may have learnt during your
quest that gems play an essential part in the Trial of
Champions. The iron door in front of you is the
victory exit, but there is only one way of opening it.
Three gems have to be put into the lock mechanism,
in a particular order, for the door to open. Each gem
radiates a unique energy which will trigger the
mechanism — if you doit correctly, that is. I will help
you to a degree, but first we need the correct gems.
Have you an emerald?’ If you possess an emerald,
turn to 31. If you do not possess an emerald, turn
to 3.
365-366

365

You tell Throm that there is no point in killing the
Dwarf as you will never find your way out of the
chamber alone. You argue that an opportunity of
tricking the Dwarf might arise Jater, once you have
found the exit from the chamber, so you intend to go
through with the Dwarf’s test. You tell the Dwarf
that you are ready and he beckons you to follow
him, telling Throm to wait for his return. A secret
door opens in the chamber wall and you follow the
Dwarf into a small circular room. He closes the door
behind you and hands you two bone dice, telling
you to throw them on to the floor. You roll a six and
a two: a total of eight. The Dwarf asks you to roll
them again, but this time you must predict whether
the total wilt be the same as, or less or more than
eight. If you wish to guess that it will be the same,
turn to 2g9e. If you wish to guess that it will total less
than eight, turn to 191. If you wish to guess that it
will total more than eight, turn to 84.

366
The temperature continues to rise steadily, far
beyond the limits of human tolerance. Lying on the
near-molten floor of the tunnel, you fail to regain
consciousness. Your adventure ends here.

367

He looks at you warily when you tell him you are a
contestant in the Trial of Champions. You ask him
what he is doing in the tunnels, and he replies
father reluctantly that he is a servant of one of the
Trialmasters, Baron Sukumvit’s appointed control-
lers of sections of his dungeon. After chatting for a
while, he admits that he would like to escape, but no
one ts allowed to leave the dungeon in case they
reveal the secrets of its construction, He tells you
that he hopes one day to bribe his way out, and that
for one Gold Piece he will tell you where some
treasure is hidden. If you wish to pay for the old
man’s advice, turn to 244. If you would rather just
wish him well and continue west, tur to 109.

368

Leaning against the left-hand wall of the tunnel,
you see a pair of bamboo stilts. They are securely
chained, and you see a label attached to a padlock
which reads: ‘The price of these stilts is one Gold
Piece, Place the coin in the slot to release the lock.’ If
you wish to buy the stilts, turn to 165, If you would
rather keep walking north, turn to 234.
369-370

369
The tunnel turns sharply to the nght, continuing

east for as far as you can see. Throm stops and tells
you to halt as well. He tums his head slowly from
side to side, listening. ‘I hear footsteps coming
down the tunnel towards us,’ he whispers. ‘Draw
your sword.’ You both crouch down to hide in the
shadows, and not a minute too soon, for a moment
later you see the silhouette of two armed figures
approaching. Throm jumps up and dashes forward,
screaming a loud battle-cry, There are two CAVE
TROLLS in front of you. Throm attacks the first one
with his battleaxe, and you run to his aid and attack
the second Cave Troll.

CAVE TROLL

If you win, turn to 288.

SKILL 10 STAMINA 11

370
As you run round the side of the pool, the Blood-
beast flicks out its long tongue once again. Roll two
dice. If the total is the same as or less than your
SKILL score, turn to 104. If the total is greater than
your SK1LL score, turn to 342.

371-372

371
You take aim and hurl the wooden ball at the skull.

Roll two dice. If the number rolled is the same as or
less than your SKILL score, turn to 273. If the num-
ber rolled is greater than your SKILL score, turn to
113

372

You finally reach the warrior’s body, but as soon as
you touch the jewel, both it and the warrior vanish
into thin air. You hear the door slam behind you,
followed bya sudden ominous rumbling above you.
You look up and see the ceiling start to lower. You
run to the door to try to escape, but it is locked and
there is no handle on the inside. The ceiling gradu-
ally drops, until you are forced to lie on the ground,
trying to halt the ceiling’s progress with your hands
and feet. But it is a hopeless task, and you are
crushed to death in the stone vice.
373-374

373
You clamber on to the soft boulder, half expecting to

be engulfed by it at any moment. Getting over it is
difficult, as your limbs sink into its soft casing, but
eventually you manage to struggle over it. Relieved
to be back on firm ground, you head east. Turn to

13.

374
You walk around the cavern, but find nothing of

interest. Throm calls out behind you, saying that he
has found a leather pouch under a pile of rocks,
Opening the pouch he laughs out loud as a tiny
mouse runs through his fingers and scurries off into
a crevice between two boulders. Suddenly you hear
the sound of cracking rock above you, and Jook up
to see stalactites breaking off the roof. Throm’s
booming laugh, which still echoes through the
chamber, has made the stalactites vibrate and break
off. You yell at Throm to run through the archway as
the stalactites slart to crash to the floor. Test your
Luck. lf you are Lucky, turn to 118. [f you are
Unlucky, turn to 295.

375-377

37>
Acrid smoke rises from the jug as you lower the

cloth into it. The liquid is unmistakably acid. You
recork the jug and place it in your backpack, hoping
it may be of use later. You sheathe your sword and
press on northwards. Turn to 110.

376
The Gnome, still smiling, says excitedly, ‘Excellent!
just one to go. Do you possess a diamond?’ If you
have found a diamond, turn to 62. If you have not
found a diamond, turn to 3.

377
The huge beast slams its body against your arm, and

you lose your grip on the rope. Crying out in pain,
you tumble to the bottom of the pit. Lose 5 sTAMINA
points. If you are still alive, turn to 203.
378~379

378
Somewhat nervously, you take a deep breath and

dive into the dark pool. The northern wall does not
project very far beneath the surface of the water,
and you decide to take the risk and swim under it
You soon start gasping for air, and are forced to
swim upwards. You try not to think that you may be
trapped in an old submerged tunnel and are very
relieved when you surface into cool air. You are on
the other side of the wall, and can see the tunnel
rising out of the water and continuing north into the
distance. You wade out of the water and check the
contents of your wet backpack. Test your Luck, If you
are Lucky, turn to 112. If you are Unlucky, turn to
209,

379
Exhausted by your long duel, you fall to your knees.

As you stare at Throm’s stil] body, a bitter loathing
for the Dwarf fills your heart. Somehow you will
avenge Throm. Engulfed in vour hatred, vou do not
notice the Dwarf enter the arena until he is standing
right in front of you, a loaded crossbow aimed at
your chest. ‘I know what you are thinking,’ he says

calmly, ‘but remember that only I know the way out
of here, Get up, it’s time for you to leave.’ Once on
your feet, the Dwarf indicates that you should walk
ahead of him. Back in the chamber, he crosses over
to the northern wall and pushes against one of its
stones. A door-like section of the wall swings out,
Opening into another crystal-lit tunnel. With his
crossbow stil aimed at your chest, the Dwarf
smiles, saying, ‘Good luck.’ If you wish to walk
Straight into the tunnel, turn to 213. If you would
rather take a punch at the Dwarf, turn to 145.

380
The Orc’s morning star crashes into your shield and
bounces off harmlessly. The tunnel is too narrow for
both of them to attack you at once, so you are able to
fight them one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
First ORC 5 5
Second ORC 6 4

If you win, turn to 257.
381-383

381

You look round the room and see nothing of interest
apart from an alcove in the west wall and a stone
chair in the middle of the room. Sitting in the chair is
the skeleton of an armed warrior, possibly a contest-
ant from years gone by. The skeletal fingers of its
right hand are gripped round a piece of parchment.
If you wish to take the parchment from the skeleton,
turn to 331. If you would rather walk over to the
alcove, turn to 128.

. 382

The old man points at one of the statues, and you
recognize it immediately. lt is the knight who
started the Trial of Champions, the agonized look
on his face locked in stone for eternity, The old man
smiles, saying, ‘This man weighs 100 pounds plus
half his weight. How much does he weigh?” What
will you answer?

100 pounds? Turn to 144

150 pounds? Turn to 227

200 pounds? Turn to 391
383

Much to your surprise, nothing extraordinary hap-
pens to you while you are sitting in the chair. There
is nothing else to do but continue north up the
tunnel. Turn to 188.
384-385

384
The fourth step suddenly gives way under your
weight. Your leg sinks into a deep hole, and before
you have time to pull it out, you feel a pain in your
foot as unseen sharp teeth sink into it. The high-
pitched squeaking you hear below is being made by
rats. They are starved, and rip into your foot, hun-
ery for your flesh. Lose 2 STAMINA points. You
regain your balance and manage to pull your leg out
of the hole. Three rats are still hanging on to your
foot with their teeth. Kicking frantically, you smash
their heads against the banister until they let go.
You then wrap crude bandages torn from your shirt
around your bleeding foot and climb the steps to set
off north again. Turn to 277.

385
You pour the contents of the glass phial into your
mouth and swallow the clear hquid. Although you
do not feel any immediate change, you hope that
the potion will create the illusion that you are a
TROGLODYTE just like the ones in front of you.
Taking a deep breath, you step boldly into the
cavern. The Troglodytes continue their tribal dance,
believing you to be one of them. You walk past them
casually and head north. Unfortunately, the effects
of the potion are short-lived. Suddenly you hear a
shriek behind you as one of the Troglodytes spots
you, and you are forced to run across the cavern
floor. Ahead you see an underground river running
east to west through the cavern and a wooden

386-387

bridge crossing over it. If you wish to run over the
bridge, turn to 318. If you wish to dive into the river,
turn to 47.

386
You walk no more than three metres west before
you hit an invisible barrier. It starts fizzing and
crackling, and you are thrown back. You have hit an
energy screen. Lose 1 STAMINA point. There is no
alternative but to walk back to the junction and head
north. Turn to 218.

387
Ahead you hear the thud of heavy footsteps
approaching. Out of the gloom steps a large, primi-
tive being dressed in animal hide and carrying a
stone club. On seeing you, he grunts and spits on
the floor, then raises his club and lumbers on to-
wards you, looking anything but friendly. You
draw your sword and prepare to fight the CAVE-

MAN.
CAVEMAN SKILL 7 STAMINA 7

If you win, turn to 114.
388-390

388
The tunnel soon comes to a dead end. A piece of
paper, brown and curled with age, is pinned to the
end wall, If you wish to pull it off the wall to see
whether there is a message written on it, turn to 23.
If you would rather hurry back down the tunnel to
join the Barbarian, turn to 154.

389
Without your weapons you are more vulnerable,
and the loss of your sword leaves you feeling almost
naked. Lose 4 SKILL points. Wondering whether
you have made the right decision, you follow the
tunnel north. Turn to 181.

390

You crouch down beside the plinth below the cross-
bows’ line of fire. You reach up and pull the skull off
the plinth, expecting your action to trigger off the
crossbows, Much to your surprise, nothing hap-
pens. Add 1 Lucx point. Still crouching, you pluck
the jewelled eyes out of the skull. You recognize the
yellow stones as topaz, and place them in your
backpack. Looking at the row of crossbows, you
wonder whether a trap still awaits you in this room.
Will you:

Crawl out of the room holding
the skull?

Replace the skull on the plinth
before crawling out of the room? Turn to 204

Turn to 15

391-392

391

Still smiling, the old man looks at you and says,
‘Well done, Stranger. You have answered correctly.
I wish you good fortune during the rest of the Trial
ot Champions, and, to this end, I shall increase vour
powers.” He then mutters a few more unintelligible
words and you feel a powerful surge soar through
your body. Add 1 to each of your SKILL, STAMINA
and LUCK scores. You bid the old man farewell and
leave his room to continue north along the passage,
Turn to 100.

392
You just have time to hear the Gnome say, ‘Three
skulls’, before a white bolt of energy shoots out from
the lock into your chest, knocking you unconscious.
Roll one die, add 1 to the number and reduce your
STAMINA by the total. If youare still alive, you come
to and are told by the Gnome to try again. You
didn’t get any of the gems right, so you won't try
that combination again.

A B C

Emerald Diamond Sapphire Turn to 16
Diamond Sapphire Emerald Turn to 392
Sapphire Emerald Diamond Turn to 177
Emerald Sapphire Diamond Turn to 287
Diamond Emerald Sapphire Turn to 132
Sapphire Diamond Emerald Turn to 249
393-394

You enter a cold room divided by a deep chasm. A

rope is stretched taut across the chasm to the far
side, where a magnificent winged helmet rests on
top of a pole. If you wish to walk across the tight-
rope to reach the helmet, turn to 274. If you would

rather return to the tunnel to continue north, turn to
291,

394

You smash the glass with the hilt of your sword,
making a hole big enough to climb through. Im-
mediately the Giant Insects start swarming and
jumping towards you. Wasting no time, you clam-
ber into the room, grabbing one of the lit torches to
defend yourself. The fire keeps most of the Insects
at bay, but by the time you have snatched the crown
and climbed back into the corridor, some will cer-
tainly have stung you. Roll one die and add 2 to the
total. This is the number of stings you have suffered
and you must reduce your STAMINA by 1 for each
sting. The Giant Insects do not chase you, prefer-
ring the bright light of the room they are in. You
examine the crown, and see with disgust that it is
merely painted iron, and the ‘diamond’ is just glass
and totally worthless. You throw it on the ground in
a rage and wonder which way to go next, If you
wish to head west, turn to §9. If you would rather
return to the junction to head north, turn to 14.
395-396
395

On hearing the noise of your scabbard, one of the
Troglodytes raises the alarm, You stand up and run
as fast as you can through the cavern. One of their
bowmen lets fly an arrow as you run. It pierces your
shoulder with deadly accuracy. Lose 3 STAMINA
points. [f you are still alive, turn to 259.

You make the rope into a lasso, whirl it above your
head and throw it at the idol’s head, smiling happily
as it falls around its neck. You then tighten the
noose and start to climb, hauling yourself up the
rope. You are soon at the top of the idol, sitting on
the bridge of its nose and holding on to the rope.
You draw your sword and wonder which jewelled
eye to prise out first. If you wish to prise out the left
eye, turn to 151. If you wish to prise out the right
eye, turn to 34.

397-398

397
The liquid is a magical potion which will enable you

to detect hidden traps. Add 2 Luck points. If you
have not done so already, you may open the red
book — turn to 52 , otherwise, you must continue
north with Throm — turn to 369.

398

Although you cannot see any visible trap, you have
a strong feeling that the chest contains a hidden
danger. The Potion of Trap Detection is working
well. You stand to one side of the chest and lift the
lid with your sword, holding it at arm’s length. As
the lid rises, an iron ball hanging on a cord swings
back and breaks a glass capsule fixed inside the lid,
instantly releasing a gas. Fortunately, you have time
to jump back without inhaling the poisonous
fumes. Once the gas has cleared, you walk back to
the chest and look inside it. There is a pendant chain
lying in the bottom, but somebody has taken the
stone from its setting. You feel so annoyed that you
throw the chain on to the floor and storm out of the
room up the tunnel. Turn to 230.

399-400

399
The bread contains secret elven healing herbs, Add
3STAMINA points, Feeling sad yet strong, you pack
away the mirror and the charm and leave the cavern
to head north. Turn to 192.

400

As soon as you appear at.the tunnel exit, a large
crowd of people begins to cheer and shout. You
walk down a path lined with jubilant people to
wards a small rostrum, and there, sitting under a
colourful bamboo umbrella, is Baron Sukumvit. He
looks astonished, as if he never expected anybody
to come through his Deathtrap Dungeon alive. Now
the secret of Fang is known. As the Baron rises from
his chair, you climb the steps to the rostrum, bow
down before him and watch as his cold eyes stare at
you in utter disbelief. You smile grimly as he offers
you his outstretched hand, To the deafening noise
of the cheering people of Fang, Baron Sukumvit
opens the chest containing your prize of 10,000 Gold
Pieces. Then he places a laurel crown on your head
and prodaims you the Champion of Deathtrap
Dungeon.

More Fighting Fantasy in Puffins

1. THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP
MOUNTAIN

Steve fackson and Imi Livtugstone

Deep in the caverns beneath the threatening crags of
Firclop Mountain, a powerful Warlock lives, guarding a
mass Of treasure — or so the rumour goes. Several adven-
turers like yourself have set off for Firetop Mountain,
but none has returned, Do vou dare to follow them? Who
knows what terrors you may find!

2. THE FOREST OF DOOM
fait Livingstone

Only the foolhardy would risk an encounter with the
unknown perils that lurk in the murky depths of Darkwood
Forest. Yet there is no alternative, for vour quest is a
desperate race against time to find the missing pieces of the
legendary Hammer of Stonebridge - fashioned by Dwarts
to protect the villagers of Stanebridge against their ancient
doom.

3. THE CITADEL OF CHAOS
Steve Jackson

You are the star pupil of the Grand Wizard of Yore and
your mission is to venture into the dark, doom-laden
tower of the demi-sorcerer, Balthus Dire. Risking death
at every turn of the passage, will you be able to overcome
the six-headed Hydra, the peril of the Rhino-man and the
deadly and mysterious Ganjees? With only your sword
and your magical skills to aid you, your task is trulv
awesome
4. STARSHIP TRAVELLER
Steve Jackson

Sucked through the appalling nightmare of the Seltsian
Void, the starship Traveller emerges at the other side of the
black hole into an unknown universe. YOU are the captain
of the Traveller and her fate lies in your hands. Will you be
able to discover the way back to Earth from the ahen
peoples and plancts you encounter, or will you and your
crew be doomed to roam uncharted space forever?

5. CITY OF THIEVES
lan Livimestone

Terror stalks the night as Zanbar Bone and his bloodthirsty
Moon Dogs hold the prosperous tewn of Silverton to
ransom. YOU are an adventurer, and the merchants of
Silverton turn to you in their hour of need. Your mission
takes you along dark, twisting sirects where thieves,
vagabonds and creatures of the night lie in wait to frap
the unwary traveller.

7, [ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING
lau Lremesfone

IGdnapped by a vicious race of Lizard Men from Fire
Island, the young men of Oyster Bay face a grit future of
slavery. starvation and a lingering death. Their master will
be the mad and dangenmes Licand King, who holds sway
Over his land of mutants by the strange power of black
magic and voodoo. Will you risk alf in an altermpt 10 save
the prisoners?

FIGHTING FANTASY
Steve facksor

The workd of Fighting Fantasy, peopled by Ores, dragons,
zombies and vampires, has captunad the imagination of
millions of rooder world-wide, Thrifling adventures of
sword and sorcery cane to life in the Fighting, Fantasy
Gamebooks, where the eeader is the hero, dicing with
death and demos, in search of villains, treasure ‘or
treed

Now YOU can create your own Fighting Fantasy adven-
tures and send your friends off on dangerous missions!
In this clearly written handbook, Steve Jackson has put
together cverything you need to become a successful
GamesMaster. ‘here are hints on devising challenging
combats, monsters to use, tricks and tactics, as well as
two mini-adventures compicte with GamesMaster’s notes
for you to start with. The tdeal introduction to the fast-
growing world of role-playing games, and _ lilcrally
countless adventures ]
