FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS

Over 8 million copies sold worldwide!

Can you save the young men of Oyster Bay
* from the evil Lizard Men?

Kidnapped by a vicious race of Lizard Men from
Fire Island, the young men of Oyster Bay face a
grim future of slavery, starvation and a linger-
ing death. Their master will be the mad and
dangerous Lizard King, who holds sway over
his land of mutants by the strange powers of
black magic and voodoo. Will you risk all in an
attempt to save the prisoners?

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser arc all youneed

for this adventure, YOU decide which route

to follow, which dangers to risk and which
monsters to fight.

Cavertilasteation by fan MoCaig

lil

9 "7801409317435"

I i
CWYPS ORT:
SORTASE
J - ) c

CTT AACELO® AD Ar WRIT)

TITA

THE FIGHTING
FANTASY WORL

PUTTIN BOOKS

ISLAND OF
THE LIZARD KING

Kidnapped by a vicious race of Lizard Men from Fire Island,
the young men of Oyster Bay face a grim future of slavery,
starvation and a lingering death. Their new master is the
mad and dangerous Lizard King, who holds sway over his
land of mutants by the eerie powers of black magic and
voodoo. YOU are the only one who can hope to rescue the
suffering prisoners, but do you have the courage to risk
this dangerous mission?

lan Livingstone, co-founder of the highly successful Games
Workshop and editor of White Dwarf, has created a thrilling
sword and sorcery adventure, complete with an elaborate
combat system and an adventure sheet to record your gains
and losses. All you need is two dice, a pencil and an eraser.

Many dangers lie ahead and your success is by no means
certain. Powerful adversaries are ranged against you and
often your only choice ts to kill or be killed!
Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks

THE CITADEL OF CHAOS

THE FOREST OF DOOM
STARSHIP TRAVELLER

CITY OF THIEVES

DEATHTRAP DUNGEON
ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING °
SCORPION SWAMP

CAVERNS OF THE SNOW WITCH '
10, HOUSE OF HELI

ll. TALISMAN OF DEATH

12. SPACE ASSASSIN

13. FREEWAY FIGHTER

14. TEMPLE OF TERROR

15. THE RINGS OF KETHER

l6. SEAS OF BLOOD

17. APPOINTMENT WITH F.E.A.R. *
18. REBEL PLANET

19 DEMONS OF THE DEEP

20. SWORD OF THE SAMURAI

21. TRIAL OF CHAMPIONS

22. ROBOT COMMANDO

23. MASKS OF MAYHEM

-~wre—

J

ces

—

Steve lackson's SORCERY!

1. The Shamutanti Hills

2. Khare - Cityport of Traps
3, The Seven Serpents

4. The Crown of Kings

FIGHTING FANTASY ~ The Introductory
Role-playing game

OUT OF THE PIT — Fighting Fantasy Monsters

THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP MOUNTAIN |

lan Livingstone

ISLAND OF THE
LIZARD KING

Illustrated by Alan Langford

Puffin Books

Pullin Bouks, Teagein Hooks Ltd, Muarmendeworth, Midkieses, England
Vikirgy Merguin Inc., 42 West 230d Street, New York, New York 10070, LLS.A
Posquin Books Australia Lid. Ringwood. Virioeia, Australia
Nerguin Books Canods Limited, 280) Johet Strevt, Markhare, Ontario, Canade LOR 104
Penguta Books (NZ) Lid. 182-390 Walrau Read. Auckbead If New Zoulead

First pottished 1534
Repeirned 1994 (six tirres) 1965. 1984, 10m7

Copyright (> len Livingstone, 194
Tustrations copynght &> Alan Langford, 144
All rigs reserved

Printed ana bound in Coreat Mintatn by
Cox & Wyrean Lid, Roading
Typeset it Linctrorn Meletien bp
Roslin Phoeotypetetiing Led.
Bary Mt Uderweds, Sutholk

Esseprt in the United Seatca of America
this Dook o tofd subpert to the ereditian
that it shall nor. Dy way of trode ur utherwise,
be lent, re-sndd, hired cut, oc otherwise clroulaied
wehout the publisher's priar consent in any forre of
bifsling Of Curver other than thal in which it le
publehed sod without 4 steiler crndition
incleding this condition being imposed
on the subsequent purchaser

For Roy Coleman
CONTENTS

HOW TO FIGHT THE CREATURES OF
FIRE ISLAND

9
EQUIPMENT AND POTIONS
6
HINTS ON PLAY
"7
8
BACKGROUND

ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING
—

For reasons that will be explained below, sKiLt,
STAMINA and LUCK scores change constantly dur-
ing an adventure. You must keep an accurate record
of these scores and for this reason you are advised
either to write small in the boxes or to keep an eraser
handy. But never rub out your Initial scores.
Although you may be awarded additional sKILL,

STAMINA and LUCK points, these totals may never
exceed your Initial scores.

Your SKILL score reflects your swordsmanship and
general fighting expertise; the higher the better.
Your STAMINA score reflects your general constitu-
tion, your will to survive, your determination and
overall fitness; the higher your STAMINA score, the
longer you will be able to survive. Your LUCK score
indicates how naturally lucky a person you are.
Luck — and magic — are facts of life in the fantasy
kingdom you are about to explore,

Battles

You will often come across pages in the book which
instruct you to fight a creature of some sort. An
option to flee may be given, but if not — or if you
choose to attack the creature anyway — you must
resolve the battle as described below.

First record the creature’s SKILL and STAMINA
scores in the first vacant Monster Encounter Box on
your Adventure Sheet. The scores for each creature
are given in the book each time you have an encoun-
ter.

10

The sequence of combat is then:

as

c 2

Roll both dice once for the creature. Add its SKILL
score. This total is the creature's Attack Strength.
Roll both dice once for yourself. Add the number
rolled to your current SKILL score. This total is
your Attack Strength.

. If your Attack Strength is higher than that of the

creature, you have wounded it. Proceed to step 4.
If the creature's Attack Strength is higher than
yours, it has wounded you, Proceed ta step 5. If
both Attack Strength totals are the same, you
have avoided each other's blows — start the next
Attack Round from step 1 above.

. You have wounded the creature, so subtract 2

points from its STAMINA score. You may use your
LUCK here to do additional damage (see over).

. The creature has wounded you, so subtract 2

points from your own STAMINA score. Again you
may use LUCK at this stage (see over).

. Make the appropriate adjustments to either the

creature’s or your own STAMINA scores (and your
LUCK score if you used LUCK = see Over).

. Begin the next Attack Round by returning to your

current SKILL score and repeating steps 1-6. This
sequence continues until the STAMINA score of
either you or the creature you are fighting has
been reduced to zero (death).

I

——— SEE EES ——————an——nnml——=—==—==
Escaping

On some pages you may be given the option of
running away from a battle should things be going
badly for you. However, if you do run away, the
creature automatically gets in one wound on you
(subtract 2 STAMINA points) as you flee. Such is the
price of cowardice, Note that you may use LUCK on
this wound in the normal way (see below). You may
only Escape if that option is specifically given to you
on the page.

Fighting More Than One Creature

If you come across more than one creature in a
particular encounter, the instructions on that page
will tell you how to handle the battle. Sometimes
you will treat them as a single monster; sometimes
you will fight each one in turn.

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either in
battles or when you come across situations in which
you could either be lucky or unlucky (details of
these are given on the pages themselves), you may
callon your LUCK to make the outcome more favour-
able. But beware! Using Luckisa risky business and
if you are unlucky, the results could be disastrous.

The procedure for using your Luck is as follows; roll
two dice. If the number rolled is equal to or Jess than
your current Luck score, you have been lucky and

12

the result will go in your favour. If the number
rolled is higher than your current LUCK score, you
have been unlucky and you will be penalized.

This procedure is known as Testing your Luck, Each
time you Test your Luck, you must subtract one point
from your current LUCK score, Thus you will soon
realize that the more you rely on your LUCK, the
more risky this svill become.

Using Luck in Battles

On certain pages of the book you will be told to Test
your Luck and will be told the consequences of your
being lucky or unlucky. However, in battles, you
always have the option of using your Lucx either to
inflict a more serious wound on a creature you have
just wounded, or to minimize the effects of a wound
the creature had just inflicted on you,

If you have just wounded the creature, you may Test
your Luck as described above. If you are Lucky, you
have inflicted a severe wound and may subtract an
extra 2 points from the creature’s STAMINA score.
However, if you are Unlucky, the wound was a
mere graze and you must restore 1 point to the
creature’s STAMINA (i-e. instead of scoring the nor-
mal 2 points of damage, you have now scored only

1).

If the creature has just wounded you, you may Test
your Luck to try to minimize the wound. If you are
Lucky, you have managed to avoid the full damage
of the blow, Restore 1 point of sTAMINa (i.e. instead

13

eee ee_—_—_—
— Ee

of doing 2 points of damage it has done only 1). If
you are Unlucky, you have taken a more serious
blow. Subtract 1 extra STAMINA point.

Remember that you must subtract 1 point from your
Luck score each time you Test your Luck.

Restoring Skill, Stamina and Luck

Skill

Your SKILL score will not change much during your
adventure. Occasionally, a page may give instruc-
tions to increase or decrease your SKILL score. A
Magic Weapon may increase your SKILL, but re-
member that only one weapon can be used ata time!
You cannot claim 2 skit bonuses for carrying two
Magic Swords. Your SKILL score can never exceed
its Initial value. Drinking the Potion of Skill (see
later) will restore your SKILL to its /nitial level at any
time.

Stamina and Provisions

Your STAMINA score will change a lot during your
adventure as you fight monsters and undertake
arduous tasks. As you near your goal, your
STAMINA level may be dangerously low and battles
may be particularly risky, so be careful!

Your backpack contains enough Provisions for ten
meals. You may rest and eat at any time except
when engaged in a Battle. Eating a meal restores 4

14

STAMINA points. When you eat a meal, add 4 points
to your STAMINA score and deduct 1 point from
your Provisions. A separate Provisions Remaining
box is provided on the Adventure Sheet for recording
details of Provisions. Remember that you have a
long way to go, so use your Provisions wisely!

Remember also that your STAMINA score may never
exceed its Initial value. Drinking the Potion of
Strength (see later) will restore your STAMINA to its
Initial level at any time,

Luck

Additions to your Luck score are awarded through
the adventure when you have been particularly
lucky. Details are given on the pages of this book.
Remember that, as with SKILL and STAMINA, your
LUCK score may never exceed its /nitial value. Drink-
ing the Potion of Fortune (see later) will restore your
LUCK to its Initial levelat any time, and increase your
Initial LUCK by 1 point.

35

Erg ———— Sr OEElEyrEE>_—E~_m_ > EE EES
EQUIPMENT AND POTIONS

You will start your adventure with a bare minimum
of equipment, but you may find or buy other items
during your travels. You are armed with a sword
and are dressed in leather armour. You have a
backpack to hold your Provisions and any treasures
you may come across.

In addition, you may take one bottle of a magic
potion which will aid you on your quest. You may
choose to take a bottle of any of the following:

A Potion of Skill— restores SkILt points

A Potion of Strength — restores sTAMINA points
A Potion of Fortune — restores LUCK points and
adds 1 to Jnitie! Luck

These potions may be taken at any time during your
adventure (except when engaged in a Battle). Tak-
ing a measure of potion will restore SKILL, STAMINA
or LUCK scores to their Initial level (and the Potion of
Fortune will add 1 point to your Initial Luck score
before LUCK is restored).

Each bottle of potion contains enough for ove mea-
sure, i.e, the characteristic may be restored once
during an adventure. Make a note on your Adven-
fure Sheet when you have used up a potion.

Remember also that you may only choose ore of the
three potions to take on your trip, so choose wisely!

16

HINTS ON PLAY

There is one true way through to the Lizard King
and it will take you several attempts to find it, Make
notes and draw a map as you explore -—this map wvill
be invaluable in future adventures and enable you
to progress rapidly through to unexplored sections.

Not all areas contain treasure; some merely contain
traps and creatures which you will no doubt fall foul
of, You may make wrong turnings during your
quest and while you may indeed progress through
to your ultimate destination, it is by no means
certain that you will find what you are searching for.

It will be realized that entries make no sense if read
in numerical order. It is essential that you read only
the entries you are instructed to read. Reading other
entries will only cause confusion and may lessen the
excitement during play.

The one true way involves a minimum of risk and
any player, no matter how weak on initial dice rolls,
should be able to get through fairly easily-

May the luck of the gods go with you on the adven-
ture ahead!

17
ADVENTURE St

e~
7 ‘.

~ -
SS) <

Coe
Le 5
—— - » me -

‘

= fp

AD

MONSTER ENCOUNTER BOXES

f
SKILL STAMINA LUCK Skill= Skill= Shill=
Instial duitial Fisititl | | Stevrina= Stantina= Stavrine=
Skill= fo Stavtina=e * Laek= 15
i
EQUIPMENT GOLD Siiil= Skili= Skitl=
I. | ST : Slain Slaie= Stavrtue=
SA AP ;
JEWELS |
|
Skill= 1 Skiil= Skill=
POT] ON 0. ae | Sfmeina= Sfanine= Stamiu=
|
PROVISIONS }
REMAINING :
if | |
Shill= Skill= Shill=
Stamniae Stamiia= Stamina=

.

BACKGROUND

Oyster Bay is a quiet fishing-village some sixty miles
down the coast from the notorious Port Blacksand.
Because it is at the end of a long peninsula reached
only by a steep and winding path, the fishermen
and their wives are left to lead a simple but content
life, away from the monsters and sorcery of the
hinterland,

Journeying south from Fang, you decide that you
could do with a few days’ rest, and knowing of no
more peaceful place than Oyster Bay, you urge your
horse towards the coast. Besides, an old adventur-
ing friend of yours called Mungo lives there now,
and it has been years since you last saw him,

Two days later you arrive at the edge of the cliffs
overlooking Oyster Bay. It is a beautiful sunny
morning and everything looks tranquil below. No-
thing seems to have changed. The cluster of stone
cottages nestles between the foot of the cliffs and the
jetty, where a dozen fishing boats lie at anchor. You
jump off your horse and walk it down the winding,
path to the village. The first people you see are a
group of crying women, As you approach them,
several men step out of a cottage and run towards
you. One of the four is your old friend Mungo. His
weather-beaten face is full of anger, He looks sur-
prised to see you but wastes no time with words of

20

welcome. He recounts the sad events that have
befallen the village.

Having no gold or material wealth, the people of
Oyster Bay thought themselves safe from raiders
attacking their village. But several weeks aga, while
most of the men were out at sea, the Lizard Men of
Fire Island landed their boats in Oyster Bay and
kidnapped several young men. Mungo believes that
they are now enslaved on Fire Island and working in
chain gangs in the gold mines. Since the kidnap-
ping, two men were left to guard the village while
the rest went out to fish, Despite this, the Lizard
Men attacked again this very morning, overpower-
ing the guards and taking away more young men.
Mungo tells you that he is about to set sail for Fire
island alone because the other fishermen are too
scared to set foot on the island. He stares at you in
silence until you smile and say that you will aid him
in his quest. He slaps you on the back and shakes
your hand in gratitude, For the moment the poor
fishing folk forget their grief and crowd round yau,
eager to thank you. Mungo then invites you to dine
with him and rest awhile, as the voyage ta Fire
[sland will take several hours. Over a delicious feast
of boiled lobster and salad, you discuss your plans.

Mungo tells you that he does not think that humans
live on Fire Island any longer, but his knowledge is
fairly limited. These are just rumours that pass
between fishermen from other coastal villages;
however, it is known that Fire Island usecl to be a
prison colony, guarded by a tribe of paid Lizard

21

Men. This was a rather futile attempt by Prince Olaf
to rid his land of undesirable characters. The goad
prince soon learned that it would have been simpler
to put his lawful citizens on Fire Island and leave the
evildoers on the mainland; there were just too
many of them. He gave up his attempt and aban-
doned the prison colony. When the Lizard Men
received no pay, they took their vengeance out on
the prisoners and the island became a place of terror
ruled by a Lizard Man prison-guard who pro-
claimed himself King. The prisoners were forced to
dig mines in the hope of finding gold for the Lizard
King. They were underfed and ill-treated and many
died; that is presumably why the Lizard King is
sending out his men to find new slaves. It is known
that in order to assert his authority, the Lizard King
began practising voodoo and black magic. He also
started genetic experiments in an attempt to breed
an invincible race of Lizard Men. Most of the experi-
ments went wrong. Grotesque mutants were cre-
ated, and some of the harmful potions found their
way into the water drains, with terrible con-
sequences. The local flora and fauna were affected,
with the result that man-eating plants developed
and giant beasts evolved. A few of the prisoners
managed to escape the island on rafts and were
picked up by fishermen, but what has happened in
the last few years, nobody knows. Fire Island had
almost been forgotten until the recent raids, Success
in your quest to assassinate the Lizard King and
rescue the kidnapped victims is doubtful, but you
must try.

22

You stand up and walk down to the jetty with
Mungo, stepping aboard his small fishing boat. In
the sight of cheering villagers, you untie the boat
and push out to sea, wondering if you will ever
return.

NOW TURN OVER

23

1

Mungo’s years with the fishermen of Oyster Bay
have made him a skilful boatman, He swiftly hoists
the sail of the small boat and sets a course due west
across the silvery-blue sea. The land soon recedes
into the distance, and you sit back on the deck,
relaxing in the afternoon sunshine. From the stern
you hear merry whistling, the creak of the rudder,
and Mungo occasionally calling out to a seabird
passing overhead, You think about the good times
you used to have with Mungo, his constant cheerful
nature and willingness to help people in need. You
find it difficult to believe that so much evil exists in
the land when there live the likes of Mungo. As the
hours drift by, you talk and laugh, trying to ignore
the dangers ahead. Mungo is always one to tella tale
and he is now telling you about his father and how
he used to work ina travelling circus. ‘He was a big
man, big as a mountain,’ laughs Mungo, ‘and he
would do just about anything for a paying crowd.
Wrestle Trolls, have elephants stand on him, and
even let a Killer Bee sting him! He was a tough old
customer, but he finally met his match in the north.
The circus was in Fang as one of the attractions
during the festivities surrounding the Trial of
Champions, and my father decided on a whim to
enter. He walked into Deathtrap Dungeon and,
alas, was never seen again. He was really too old for
such an ordeal, although there was no telling him
that. But at least he tried.’

Just as Mungo is about to tell you his next tale, he
jumps up and shouts ‘Land ahoy"" at the top of his

Bo ees se __”

— =<. o-oo

en

23

voice, as though he were yelling the ness to the
crew of a galleon. You look to where he is pointing
and see Fire Island in the distance, The island sits on
the sea like a green cushion, with a jagged mountain
protruding from it. Smoke gently curls up from its
top: a voleano’s fuming anger waiting to explode.

Mungo steers the boat towards a small inlet at the
eastern tip of the island, hoping that it will remain
concealed between the high rocks. You both put on
your backpacks and‘clamber out of the boat to begin
your quest to find the Lizard King. If you wish to
scramble round the rocks to the beach in the cove lo
your left, turn to 24. If you wish to clamber over the
rocks on the other side of the inlet to the beach in the
cove to your right, turn to 33.

2

The Shaman places three nutshells on the ground
and explains that under one of them lies a bead and
you have to choose the correct one, Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, turn to 358. If you are Unlucky, turn
to 326. -

The Dwarfs, suddenly encouraged by the possibil-
ity of freedom, turn to help you slay the guard with
their hammers. The Lizard Man falls to the ground
under a barrage of blows and the Dwarfs begin to
cheer. They smash open their shackles and gather
round to thank you and to quench their thirst with
the water in the pail. You tell them of your quest to

4-6

kill the Lizard King and they all offer to help. You
ask them where the other prisoners are, and hear
that they are working in other chambers deeper in
the mine. You tell the Dwarfs to lead you there as
quickly as possible (turn to 161).

The tunnel gradually widens and your feeling of
claustrophobia recedes. Before long you are back at
a T-junction. If you wish to turn left, turn to 101. If
you wish to turn right, turn to 44.

5

Thrusting your sword into the Rattlesnake’s dark
lair, you hear the dull clang of metal striking metal,
You forget about the Rattlesnake and try to scrape
the metal object out of the hole with your sword, In
the sunlight you see a magnificent golden winged
helmet. If you wish to place the helmet on your
head, turn to 292. If you would rather leave the
helmet and walk carefully down into the gorge to
head west, turn to 119.

6
Drinking the liquid makes you feel dizzy, but your
body feels charged with energy. Add 1 SKILL point
7-9
and 2 STAMINA points for drinking water brought

from an enchanted stream. Refreshed, you walk
over to the door in the far wall (turn to 353).

7

Pressing on further west, you notice that the ground
is becoming wetter and softer, Soon you are ankle-
deep in water. The trees thin out and you find
yourself wading through thick black mire, The
marshland stretches out in front of you as far as you
can see. Suddenly you hear the sound of squelching
behind you and are surprised to see a strange crea-
ture run past you. It is small with green reptilian
scales. Its arms are long and hang down to the
ground, and it moves rapidly over the marsh on its
webbed feet. It pays you no attention. If you wish to
call out to the creature, turn to 317. If you prefer to
keep trudging west, turn to 158.

§
You reach the corner and look down the corridor. It
ends ata doorway, but a hunch tells you to climb the
spiral staircase (turn to 82),

9
You whisk the iron bar out of your backpack and
thrust it between the jaws of the vicious Crocodile.
It is now helpless, with its jaws wedged open, and
you are able to push your raft away from it (turn to
399).

10-13

10

lt is so dark inside the bore-hole that you cannot
even see your hand in front of your face, If you still
wish to craw! down if, turn to 34. If you are having
second thoughts, and would rather back out and
carry on down the tunnel past the hand-cart, turn to
321.

11
The Dwarfs have dealt with the other Orc and turn
to help you in your struggle. The Ore is soon de-
feated (turn to 121).

12
You struggle on through the dense jungle, and
suddenly stumble over a human skeleton, The mag-
gots and insects have long since devoured the
flesh, but the clothing looks like that of a prisoner
who must have tried to escape. You wonder how he
or she died. There isa hand-axe and some rope lying
by the prisoner which you decide to take before
continuing north-west (turn to 105).

45

You do not see a TARANTULA crawling down the
trunk of the banana tree in the semi-darkness. Your
hand presses down on its plump, furry body, and
before you realize what you have done, the spider
has bitten you. Lose 3 STAMINA points. The shack
makes you slip. Roll two dice. If the total is the same
as or Jess than your SKILL score, turn to 381, If the
total is higher than your SKILL score, turn to 118.

147-16

The river meanders gently through the low hills. As
you sweep round the next bend, you see a group of
mud huts close to the left bank. You steer the raft
into the bank to avoid being seen by any of the huts’
inhabitants. Jumping off, you creep forward
through the trees to get a better view of the huts.
Standing behind one of the huts, you see two tall
reptilian creatures wearing armour and carrying
whips and curved swords —- LIZARD MEN! If you
have read the message in the snuff-box, turn to63. If
you have not read the message, turn to 270.

15
Your constitution is strong enough to shrug off the
disease, and your temperature soon returns to nor-
mal, You untie your raft and push your way up-
river (turn to 379).

16
You pull off your backpack and throw it down the
log. You crawl quickly inside and lie perfectly still,
bleeding and exhausted. Lose 1 STAMINA point. |
Moments later, you hear the Headhunters running
by. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 380. If
you are Unlucky, turn to 313.

SE rear ART h paee emer be | oh | Aig
a

ES

1719

17
You walk back down the hill and turn left towards
the volcano (turn to 303).

18
The nuts and berries taste delicious. The Pygmies
know what is good to eat in the jungle. ‘Add 2
STAMINA points. Suddenly one of them utters a
shrill cry and they all vanish into the undergrowth,
You breathe a sigh of relief and begin again to hack
your way west (turn to 7),

19

This section of the tunnel looks as if it has been
disused for a long time. The beams supporting the
ceiling are cracked and look unsafe. You arrive at
the edge of a vertical downward shaft, not far
beyond which the tunnel ends. There is no ladder
running down its side for you to descend. If you are
wearing red leather boots, turn to 392. If you have
not found these boots, turn to 246. ;

20-23

20
You crush the other egg with your boot before
climbing up the volcano as you cannot walk across
the sulphur pool (turn to 178).

21
You sheathe your sword and walk over to the edge
of the pool. If you still wish to drink the water, turn
to 92. If you would rather head off west again, turn
to 222,

22

The Lizard King is so terrified that he drops his fire
sword, You leap forward and pick it up to attack the
Lizard King with his own destructive weapon. Add
2 SKILL points. He can hardly overcome his fear to
detend himself, but the Gonchong finally forces him
to fight.

LIZARD KING

lf you win, turn to 153.

SKILL10 STAMINA 15

23
You pick up the Lizard Man's pail, as it contains
water which you imagine would be very welcome to ©
the thirsty slaves. You walk on until the tunnel
opens out into a chamber (turn to 223).

24-26

|

24
It does not take you long to reach the beach, which is
small and covered with golden sand. A few rocks jut
into the sea, ancl at the far end of the beach you see a
tiny hut made of white stone. The roof has collapsed
and the hut looks deserted. There are some long
tracks in the sand, criss-crossing the beach. If you
wish to walk across the beach to the hut, turn to 221,
If you would rather climb back to the inlet and over
to the beach in the other cove, turn to 33.

25
Three more Grannits uncurl themselves and shoot
forward to bite your legs. You manage to jump over
them, but the first is still clinging to your shin by its
teeth. You hack at it with your sword.

GRANNIT

[f you win, turn to 85,

SKILL 4 STAMINA 3

26
You open the pouch and look inside but cannot see
anything; it is totally black inside. You decide to
drop a stone into the bag to see what happens, The
stone disappears from view and the pouch does not

27-28

become any heavier. You have found a Pouch of
Unlimited Contents. Add 1 Luck point, The pouch
will enable you to carry large and heavy objects
simply by placing them inside, These objects are
actually transported ta another dimension and will
weigh nothing inside the pouch, but can be re-
trieved at any time. If you have not done so already,
you may:

Dnink the liquid in the phial Turn to 311
Try on the boots Turn to 94
Put the ring on your finger Turn to 297

[f you do not wish to carry out any of these actions,
you may continue your way west again across the
grassy plain (turn to 222).

27

As the day wears on, the sun gradually sinks into
the western horizon. It sits like a big red balloon on
the sea next to the volcano before falling out of sight.
The sunset shades of pink and purple radiate across
the sky and soon the air is filled with the noisy
sound of thousands of insects. You decide to camp
down for the night between two bushes, hoping to
remain hidden from any nocturnal predator. Test
your Luck. lf you are Lucky, turn to 388. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 348.

28
Again the tunnel splits at a junction. If you wish to
turn left, turn to 226. If you wish to carry on straight
ahead, turn to 104.

ake
a:

| ae x ae vit

uN dp

5M sa

29-30

29
As the Hydra closes in on you, you reach for your
sword and prepare to fight.

SKILL STAMINA
HYDRA (left head) 9 9
HYDRA (right head) 9 u

Both heads will make a separate attack on you in
each Attack Round, but you must choose which of
the two you will fight each time. Attack your chosen
head as in a normal battle. Against the other you
will throw for your Attack Strength in the normal
way, but you will not wound it if your Attack
Strength is greater; you must just count this as
though you have defended yourself against its bite.
Of course, if its Attack Strength is greater, it will
wound you. If you win, turn to 389.

30

You are walking in a determined way towards the
volcano, when a large creature springs out in front
of you from behind a large rock. lts grotesque torso
is covered with ugly warts and saliva drools down
its long chin. You have been ambushed by a HILL
TROLL.

HILL TROLL SKILLG STAMINA

Unless you are wearing Sog’s helmet, you will lose
the first Attack Round. If you win, turn to 65.

31-34

31
You pick up your pole and push your raft away from
the floating carcass of the Crocodile. Unless you
possess a Pouch of Unlimited Contents, into which
you put them, your spear and your axe (if you have
either of these) will have rolled off the raft during
the battle with the Crocodile. You curse your loss,
but push on up-river (turn to 390).

By the time you have found all the prisoners and
released them, you have become leader of sixty-
three dedicated followers, eager for revense (turn to
201).

33

You soon reach the beach but duck back down
behind the rocks when you see what is happening
on it. A rowing-boat has been dragged on to the
beach, obviously by the six PIRATES who are
standing around a large chest. You look at Mungo
and discuss what to do. If you wish to attack the
Pirates, turn to 340. If you would rather climb back
to the inlet and over to the beach in the other cove,
turn to 24.

You carry on crawling down the tunnel but decide it
is leading nowhere, There is not much room to turn,
and you have to tuck your head between your legs
and flip over, You scramble back down the bore-
hole and are relieved to reach the main tunnel,

35-37

However, when you flipped over in the bore-hole
something fell out of your backpack, Deduct one
item from your Equipment List and lose 1 Luck
point. You clamber out of the bore-hole and turn left
down the tunnel (turn to 322).

The words form a stark warning which reads ‘Turn
Back or Die’. But you cannot tell whether the warn-
ing is for those entering the gorge or for those
leaving it, as the boulder faces both ways, equally.
However, not wishing to take chances, you grip
your sword and walk stealthily down the gorge
{turn to 119).

36
The Lizard King closes in on you. Are you holding a
fire sword as your weapon? If you are, turn to 111. If
you must fight the Lizard King with an ordinary
sword, turn to 346.

37
Although you are expecting some terrible beast to

rise out of the water, everything remains calm.
Gradually the ground becomes firmer underfoot
and soon you are out of the water and walking
through thick mud. Keeping a watchful eye on the
terrain and sky, you are unaware of the disgusting
soft bodies clinging to your legs. It is only when
you notice some discomfort that you look down to
see the GIANT LEECHES wrapped around your
calves. Roll one die and add 1 to the number rolled.

38-40

This is the number of Giant Leeches clinging to you.
Lose 1 STAMINA point for each and a portion of your
Provisions: you need salt to get them off your leg. If
you are still alive, turn to 280.

38
The Lizard Man must be almost deaf as it does not
hear your sword drop and continues walking up the
tunnel. You pick up your sword and follow (turn to

51).

39
The floor of the tunne! is strewn with rocks the size

of coconuts. They are all surprisingly smooth, Some
appear t move slightly, but you suspect it must be
the dim light playing tricks on your eyes. Then
suddenly one uncurls and shoots forward on tiny
legs tow ards you, and you feel a sharp pain in your
leg, as though teeth are tearing at your flesh. Lose 1
STAMINA point, You realize with horror that you are
surrounded by GRANNITS, vicious armadillo-like
man-eaters, If you have been bitten by a Rattle-
snake, turn to 207; if you have not, turn to 25.

qo

You walk down the gorge and into shadow, the
sunlight being cut off by the southern hills. As the
gorge narrows, you suddenly hear a rumbling
above you. It is the sound of a Jandslide, and soon
rocks and boulders are crashing down all around
you. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 253. If
you are Unlucky, turn to 107.
41-42

41
Inside the snuff-box you find a small gold nugget
and a piece of paper with a message scrawled in
charcoal which reads: ‘If you read this, it will mean
that I have failed in my attempt to escape from the
slave mines of the Lizard King. My raft is hidden
beyond the gorge where the plain meets the river. If
you are here to help us, please follow the river
upstream until you see the mud huts. The slave
mines are near by, but beware the Lizard Man
guards,’

You fold up the piece of paper, put it in your
pocket together with the gold nugget, and continue
to follow the footprints (tum to 325).

42
With your sword raised high, you lunge at your
nearest foe. lt is a HOBGOBLIN,
HOBGOBLIN SKILL 6

[f you win, turn to 341.

STAMINA 5

43

The Lizard Men see you and react quickly, You must
fizht them both at once.

SKILL STAMINA
First LIZARD MAN 9 8
Second LIZARD MAN 8 8

During combat, both Lizard Men will have a sepa-
rate attack on you in each Attack Round, but you
must choose which of the two you will fight. Attack
your nominated target as in a normal battle. Against
the other you will throw for your Attack Strength in
the normal way, but you will not wound it if your
Attack Strength is greater — you must count this as
though you have just parried its blow. Of course, if
its Attack Strength is greater, it wil] have wounded
you in the normal way. As soon as you have killed
one of the Lizard Men and wounded the other
twice, turn to 284.

44-45

44
You soon arrive at another junction. Looking left,

you see daylight at the end of the tunnel and re-
member that itis the entrance. You decide to walk
straight past it (turn to 274).

Your sword rebounds off the Lizard Man’s armour.
He whirls round to face his would-be assassin and
thrusts af you with his scimitar.

TWO-HEADED
LIZARD MAN SKILL

If you win, turn to 173.

STAMINAG

Poe ti

46-47

46

The man’s eyes light up at the mention of food; he
puts down his pole and beckons you to sit down, As
he devours your offerings (lose 1 portion of your
Provisions), you tell him of your quest. He tells you
that he was once a thief on the mainland who was
caught and sentenced by Prince Olaf to five years’
imprisonment on Fire Island. After the Lizard Men
began their rule of the island, he was forced to work
in the gold mines. One day, however, he managed
to escape and has lived in hiding in the jungle ever
since. He thinks he is too old to brave a journey by
raft to the mainland and is happy enough to live in
his tree den. You ask him if he has any information
which may be of use to you and he replies that he
will willingly tell you all he knows in exchange for
some more food. If you wish to give him another
portion of your Provisions, turn to 149. If you would
rather threaten him, turn to 69.

47
As you walk down the main tunnel, you pass a

branch on your right and the entrance tunnel on
your left. You come to the edge of a vertical down-
ward shaft, to the side of which is secured a wooden
ladder. You look down the shaft and although you
cannot see the bottom, you decide to climb down
(turn to 315).

48-51

48

As you bend down to look at the strange eggs, one
of them splits open. Clear, viscous liquid seeps out
of the crack and thena hole appears in the side of the
ege. You see a long jaw lined with spiked teeth poke
through the hole followed by a smooth eyeless
head, deep green in colour. The beast sniffs the air—-
and then instinctively leaps at your throat, You have
unfortunately found the nest of a RAZORJAW, a
hideous creature that has evolved to kill all other
species. If you are wearing Sog’s helmet, turn to 56;
if you are not, turn to 304,

49
You sheathe your sword and set off west again.

Gradually the ground becomes firmer underfaot,
and soon you are out of the water and walking
across a muddy plain. Ahead you see two hills and
you decide to walk towards the gorge dividing them
{turn to 362).

50
You charge at the door with your shoulder. Roll two
dice. If the number rolled is Jess than or equal to
your SKILL score, turn to 356. [f the number rolled is
greater than your SKILL, turn to 266.

51
The noise of singing voices and iron hitting rock is
quite loud; you must be close to where the slaves are
working, You decide to run quietly up behind the
Lizard Man and deal with it. You pick up a large
——————=—_——

52-54

stone and run forward. The Lizard Man hears you -
but too late to stop you from bringing the stone
down hard on the back of its head. As it crashes to
the floor you catch its pail, thinking it might contain
much-needed water for the thirsty slaves. You walk
on until the tunnel opens out intoa chamber (turn to
223),

eS

The poison in the Giant Wasp's sting has affected
your co-ordination. Lose 1 SKILL point. Turn to 141.

52

53

A sweet smell floats down from the upper foliage of
the tree which makes you fee] relaxed and drowsy.
As your eyelids droop, you do not see a thick vine
lower itself down from the branches above. It silent-
ly wraps itself around your neck and starts to
squeeze. You awaken, choking, and try to grasp
your sword which is lying by your feet. Test your
Luck. lf you are Lucky, turn to 256. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 132.

As you bend down to search the Lizard King’s
clothing, you see the Gonchong withdraw its pro-
boscis from its host's forehead. It springs forward
on its long legs in an attempt to land on your head,
Roll two dice. If the total is the same or less than

55-58
your SKILL, turn to 244. If the total is greater than
your SKILL, turn to 260.

Your constitution is strang, and the snake’s venom
does not affect you too badly. Lose 2 sTAMINA
points. You bandage the wound with a piece of
cloth and rest awhile. If you wish to drive the
Rattlesnake out of its hole with your sword, turn to
5- If you would rather walk carefully down into the
gorge to head west, turn to 119.

56
You turn your head away from the leaping Razor-
jaw which blindly crashes into the neck-guard of
your helmet. It bounces off and you draw your
sword to slay the vile thing.

RAZORJAW SKILL6

If you win, turn to 20.

STAMINAS

37
Back at the junction you may either turn left (to 361)

or continue straight along the tunnel (to 19).

58
Sinking knee-deep in the slimy marsh, you struggle
to keep up with the agile Marsh Hopper. Suddenly
it turns south and once again beckons you to follow
it. If you wish to keep following the Marsh Hopper,
turn to 235. If you wish to keep heading west, turn

to 37-

Be Li

59-60

59
Climbing up the hill, your foot catches an unseen

piece of twine tied between two small piles of rocks,
The rocks tumble over, alerting the occupant of the
cave to the presence of an intruder, A wild-eyed
CAVE WOMAN appears at the mouth of the cave
wearing furs and carrying a spear and a stone club.
She steps forward and hurls her spear at you. Test
your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 108. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 255-

60
You miss all three of the quick-moving Grannits and
must fight them one ata time.

SKILL STAMINA
First GRANNIT 4 3
second GRANNIT 3 2
Third GRANNIT 4 3

If you win, turn to 192.

61—63

61

You look round to see Mungo fighting the last
remaining pirate — the captain! Before you can help
him, the captain lunges forward, piercing poor
Mungo through the chest. He lets out an anguished
cry and drops on to the golden sand in a crumpled
heap. The captain turns to face you, a grotesque
sneer on his face, distorted by a long black scar
running down the left side. You charge at the cap-
tain, seeking to avenge Mungo.

PIRATE CAPTAIN

If you win, turn to 165,

SKILL 10 STAMINA 6

62

The pike misses you and the Hobgoblin runs away
panic-stricken. You cross the archway quickly to
stand on the other side of the ravine (turn to 139),

63
Mud huts and Lizard Men guards; you realize that
the gold mines must be near by! If you wish to walk
past the huts to find the mines, turn to 147, If you
would rather deal with the Lizard Men first, turn to

329,

64-65

Unknown to you, the ring also has a useful func-
tion. It helps its wearer to see through illusions. The
maggots fade away before your eyes, the spell of the

Shaman broken, You have passed the test. If you

have now passed three tests, turn to 214. If not,
which will you try next?

Luck Turn to 2

Fear Turn to 75

Pain Turn to 151

Strength Turn to 220

Dexterity Turn to 335
65

You set off again, hoping to find the Shaman soon.
You notice a few tufts of grass tied in knots and
guess that he is not far away. You wonder if he
knows you are near and stop to look around. There
is no sign of life, merely a dead seagull lying on a
rock to your right. If you have read the Shaman’s
chalk marks, turn to 8g. If you have not read his
message, turn to 365.

66-67

66
You pick up the chief's spear and run back into the
jungle the way you came. You are soon well away
from the village and slow down to a walk. Once
again you are alone on your quest (turn to 113).

The Shaman takes the bones from you and the pain
immediately stops. However, you have failed the
test and the Shaman will not now divulge his sec-
rets. He points south-east, saying that the prison
colony lies in that direction and that you must face
the Gonchong without his help. You turn around
and walk down the side of the volcang towards the
Lizard King’s stronghold (turn to 168).

68-70

68
The tunnel] is now very narrow and the beams
supporting the roof are cracked and dislodged in
places. You feel very claustrophobic in the dim
light, but you press on, often being showered with
dust and small stones. The tunnel ends again at
another junction. Will you:

Turn left? Turn to 278

Turn right? Turn to 70

Turn back? Turn to172
69

The old thief jumps to his feet and climbs higher up
the tree, cursing you out loud, He is very agile and
you will not catch him up, carrying your backpack
and sword. You decide to leave him alone and climb
down the vine to continue north-west (turn to 375).

70

The tunnel makes a sharp right turn, continuing on
as far as you can see. As you start to walk down it,
you are suddenly stopped in your tracks by the
sound of rumbling above you. A beam cracks and
suddenly the whole ceiling comes crashing down
on top of you, Lose § sTaMINA points, If you are still
alive, Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 345. If
you are Unlucky, turn to 175.

ears etcetera hs |oh i A>
“a.

71-73
71

As you continue to hack your way noisily through
the lush vegetation, you are unaware of the six
PYGMIES you have attracted, who are now follow-
ing you. They surround you before coming into
view, their blowpipes aimed at your exposed flesh.
if you wish to communicate with them, turn to 276.
lf you would rather fight them, turn to 359.

72
The marks are a simple request, written by the
Shaman you are seeking. They ask you to find a
feather and tie it in your hair, if you wish peaceful
contact with him. You wonder how the Shaman
knows you are looking for him, and realize it is
important to find a feather. You set off immediately
to find one (turn to 30).

73
Although you try to stab the Spit Toad as it leaps at

you, your blade fails to find its mark. Terrified, you
are knocked to the ground by the huge amphibian.
Its spiked teeth sink into one of your arms. Test your
Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 217. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 396.

76

4
The approaching Lizard Man is not suspicious of
you and your gang of Dwarfs and you pass by
‘without any trouble (turn to 134).

B
‘The Shaman walks over fo you and touches your
head with his fingertips. Your mind fills with ter-
rible and threatening images, so real that you want
toscream out in terror. Are you wearing red powder
‘on your face? If you are, tum to 455. Ifyou are nol,
turn to334,

76
‘The spear flies through the air, striking you in the
shoulder and sending you crashing to the ground.
Lose 3 stantina points. Ifyouaresillalive, yousee
the man that you rescued come to your side and pull.
the spear from your shoulder. He picks you up and.
helps you run forcoverinside one of the huts, as the
other Headhunters turn to attack you. Inside the

aid
hut, the rescued man arms himself with a spearand
a stone-headed club, His gratitude shows ina smile
and suddenly he runs out of the hut, screaming at
the top of his voice. You watch as he charges into a
group of advancing Headhunters, stabbing and
hacking at them in a mad frenzy. Before he finally
succumbs ta their blows, he manages olay three of
them. You stagger out of the hut to ght the remain-
ing Headhunters, but only one, the chief, steps
Forward to fight; the others turn and fle.

CHIEF
HEADHUNTER ski

Ifyou win, turn t0 66,

stammva®.

7
The door flies open and youseea Dwarf shackled by
his arms and legs being pushed into the laboratory
by a grotesque two-headed LIZARD MAN. It
pushes the poor Dwarf towards the door leading to
the storeroom. If you wish to leap out from your
hhiding:place to attack the mutant, turn to 289. Ifyou
‘would rather wait to come out after they have gone
into the storeroom, turn to 91

Fd
‘You crouch down in the darkest recess you can find
in the wall. The footsteps draw nearer and then you
seea LIZARD MAN earrying an iron pail. It walks.
past without noticing you, complaining to itself
‘about the weight ofthe pail, You follow itdown the
tunnel ata safe distance. Ifyou have drank Potion

79-80

of Clumsiness, turn to 154. If you have not drunk
this potion, turn to 184.

79
You walk up the hill and step inside the cave. It

smells of rotten food and stale body odour, The few
possessions are strewn all over the floor amidst the
rubbish, You are about to leave the cave when you
catch sight of a small clay bow] almost hidden in a
recess beside the Cave Woman's fur bedding. The
bow! contains red powder. Will you:

Dab some on your face? Turn to 332
Swallow some of it? Turn to 97
Leave the cave without
touching it? Turn to 47
80

You cut off a bunch of bananas and climb back down
the tree, The bananas are sweet and juicy. Add 2
STAMINA points. Feeling quite content, you crawl
into your shelter to settle down for the night. Look-
ing up, you see wispy clouds in shades of pink and
purple gradually deepen in colour as night takes
over from day. Despite the deafening noise of
thousands of insects enjoying the coo] night air, you
are soon fast asleep. Tesf your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 388, If you are Unlucky, turn to 348.

CE

$1

As you push your way slowly through the under-
growth, the hairs on the back of your neck start to
prickle and you feel that you are being watched.
You stand back, sword ready, watching the leaves
for any sign of movement. Then three dark-skinned
men step into view, each wearing only a crude
loin-cloth. They are armed with stone clubs and
long spears, but you are more alarmed to see that
each wears a belt of shrunken human heads. The
HEADHUNTERS start to argue about who should
kill you and earn the right to wear your head on his
belt. Finally one steps forward. Fight them one ata
time.

SKILL STAMINA
First HEADHUNTER 6 6
Second HEADHUNTER 7 6
Third HEADHUNTER 6 -

If you win, turn to 177.

82-83

82

You run up the staircase until you reach a wooden
door. Turning the handle slowly, you open it slight-
ly. There, in the open air, standing feet astride on
the battlement, is the infamous LIZARD KING
waving a clenched fist and calling to his troops. A
strange BLACK LION sits obediently at his side,
but it is the sight of the Gonchong on the Lizard
King’s head that makes you tremble. You breathe in
deeply and step out on to the battlements, You
wave to your own troops and call out to the Lizard
King. He does not even bother to look at you, anda
merely snaps his fingers to send the Black Lion
bounding at you.

BLACK LION SKILL 11 STAMINA II

if you win, turn to 203.

83
The side of the hill is quite steep and you lose your
footing on some scree. You tumble over and slide
down the hill. Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn
to 334. If you are Unlucky, turn to 281,
84—86

84

The door opens into a corridor which runs left and
right. Looking night, the corridor comes to a dead
end, so you turn left. There is another door in the
right-hand wall with the word ‘Jailer’ painted on it.
Further ahead, the corridor turns sharply left where
it meets a spiral staircase, If you wish to open the
door, turn to 195. If you would rather walk on to the
Staircase, turn to 8.

85
As each of the other three Grannits run at you, you
try to cleave their bony shells before they sink their
teeth into your leg. Roll one die. If you roll 1 or 2,
turn to 60. If you roll 3 or 4, turn to 239. If you roll 5
or 6, turn to 112,

86
The Pygmies look surprised at your audacity and
begin to laugh. One of them steps forward and
offers you some nuts and berries. If you wish to eat
them, turn to 18. If you do not wish to eat them, turn

to 295.

87-90

87

As soon as you are close enough, the man leaps on
to your raft. His eyes look wild and he is sweating
profusely. He is delirious with fever and it is im-
possible to communicate with him. Suddenly he
pulls a dagger from his clothing and tries to stab
you. You do not have time to draw your sword and
are forced to fight him with your bare hands.

DELIRIOUS
PRISONER SKILL6 STAMINA 5

During each Attack Round you must reduce your
Attack Strength by 3 because youare fighting empty-
handed. As soon as you win your second Attack
Round, turn to 130.

88
You decide to build a raft and punt your way
up-river. The river is not very deep and you have no
difficulty in wading across it to some small trees on
the far bank. If you possess an axe, turn to 179, If
you do not have an axe, turn to 305.

89
You walk over to the seagull and pluck a feather
from its wing. Using twine from your backpack, you
tie the feather to the back of your head and walk on
feeling a little self-conscious (turn to 269).

go
The old man pulls a piece of bent wire out of his
pocket and proudly hands it to you, He sees the

9192

puzzled expression on your face and explains, ‘It's a
picklock’s wire and | used it to unlock my leg irons
before escaping from the mines. It might come in
handy if you are captured.” You thank the old man
and climb down the vine ta continue north-west
{turn to 375).

gi
As soon as the mutant and his prisoner have left the

laboratory, you craw! out from under the bench and
walk through the open doorway ahead (turn to 180).

92

The water is refreshing to drink, Add 1 STAMINA
point. While drinking, you notice a wooden casket
lying on the bottom of the pool. If you wish to wade
into the pool to reach the casket, turn to 259. If you
would rather head off west again, turn to 222.

93-94

You take careful aim and release the dagger. It flies
perfectly straight and sinks into the orange, knock-
ing it off the rock. You have passed the test, If you
have now passed three tests, turn to 214. If not,
which will you try next?

Luck Turn to2

Fear Turn to 75

Pain Turn to 151

Revulsion Turn to 183

Strength Turn to 220
94

The boots fit your feet perfectly. You runaroundina
circle but nothing good or untoward happens, so
you decide to leave them on. If you have not done so
already, you may:

Drink the liquid in the

phial Turn to 314
Open the pouch Turn to 26
Put the ring on your

finger Turn to 297

If you do not wish to do any of these things, you
may continue your way west again across the grassy
plain (turn to 222).

—

|

4

95-97

95
The mutant Lizard Man jumps off the dead Styraco-
saurus and lumbers over to you with his halberd
outstretched.

MUTANT LIZARD
MAN SKILL 9: STAMINA Q

If you win, turn to 133.

96
You stand on guard, waiting for the other Pygmies
to attack, But they simply pick up their dead com-
rade and vanish into the undergrowth in silence.
Once again you are left alone to continue your
journey west (turn to 7).

97

The powder is almost impossible to swallow. You
inhale some into your lungs and start to cough. It
feels as if your lungs are burning. Lose 2 STAMINA

ints and 1 LucK point. Eventually the pain sub-
sides. Will you now either dab some powder on
your face (turn to 332) or leave the cave without the
powder (turn to 17).

98-100
98
Slowly but surely you lift the huge boulder off the
ground. The Shaman signals for you to drop it,
satisfied with your strength, You have passed the
test. If you have now passed three tests, turn to 214.
If not, which will you try next?

Luck Turn to2
Fear Turn to 75
Pain Turn to 151
Revulsion Turn to 183
Dexterity Turn to 335

The Ogre is not carrying anything of use to you and
so you carry on building your raft. About an hour
later you finally have enough logs to make a small
raft, You tie them together with vines and drag your
raft into the river, Using a long thin branch, you are
soon punting your way up-river (turn to 387).

100
The fruit is juicy and tastes delicious. Add 1 sTaM-
INA point. Feeling refreshed, you set off again, still
wiping the sticky juice from around your mouth.
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 352. If you
are Unlucky, turn to 160.

101—103

101

You see a hand-cart with wooden wheels lying on
its side in the middle of the tunnel, blocking your
way. A short broken skeletal body, perhaps that of a
Dwarf, lies beside it, A round bore-hole opens out
into the tunnel and you wonder whether a Rock
Grub might have attacked the unfortunate Dwarf.
The tunnel continues on as far as you can see,
although there is no sign of life ahead. If you wish ta
crawl down the bore-hole, turn to 10. If you wish to
climb over the cart and continue down the tunnel,
turn to 321.

102

You run back through the undergrowth the way
you came, oblivious of the sharp branches and
thorns cutting into you, Ahead you see a hollow log,
into which you think you might be able to squeeze.
If you wish to risk hiding in the log, turn to 16. If you
wish to keep on running, turn to 169.

103

Although the itching is almost unbearable, some-
thing worse is happening. You break out in a sweat
and then start to shiver. You are in the early stages
of malaria. Lose 3 STAMINA points, If you are still
alive, check your STAMINA, If itis 12 or above, tum
to 15. lfitis 11 or below, turn to 316.

4 =>
pS ean

Le

104-107

104
You stand up and look inside your backpack. Your
Provisions (if you have any remaining} have disin-
tegrated and are no longer edible, but all your other
possessions are still intact, You have no choice but
to continue your journey on foot (turn to 197).

105
Being very wary of the vegetation, you stay alert,
constantly looking about. Half-way upa tree to your
left you see a crude platform and a vine hanging
down from it. If you wish to climb up to the plat-
form, turn to 286, If you would rather press on, turn

tO 375-

106
After saying a few words, you realize that the girl
cannot understand you. Perhaps she was left on
Fire Island as a child and has become as wild as the
animals. She cowers back, uttering a few sounds to
the Tiger. It is obviously wise to leave her alone and
so you back off slowly, hoping not to scare her. Ata
safe distance you turn and walk quickly into the
valley to reconnoitre with the freed slaves (turn to

279).

107

The boulders fall down like rain, and inevitably one
hits you. Roll one die. If you roll 1 or 2, turn to 220. If
you roll 3 or 4, turn to 336. If you roll 5 or 6, turn to
245.

108-110

108
The spear whistles past your head, clattering on to
the rocks behind you. The Cave Woman grunts in
anger and runs forward to attack you with her club.

CAVE WOMAN = SKILL5

if you win, turn to 79.

STAMINA 5

You put your lips to the mouthpiece of the horn and
blow as hard as you can. The tide of the battle
suddenly turns as your companions rally to the
sound of the horn, A gap appears in the ranks of the
Lizard King’s troops as they fall back, and you run
through. You reach the wooden gates of the fort,
and run through them into the inner courtyard. If
you wish to walk through the double doors in the
wall to your left, turn to 268, If you would rather try
the doors straight ahead in the far wall, turn to'84.

110
Not only is your skin allergic to the fungus spores,
but vour stomach does not take kindly to it either.
You are violently sick, as the fungus you have eaten
is poisonous. Lose 3 STAMINA points and 1 LUCK
point. If you are still alive, you gradually bein to
feel better and set off again through the under-
growth (turn to 224).

111-113

The ferocity with which the Lizard King attacks you
is staggering. Blow after blow of his fire sword
crashes down on you and it is all you can do to
defend yourself.

LIZARD KING SKILL 12

If you win, turn to 153.

STAMINA 15

112
You manage to stop two of the quick-moving Gran-
nits, but must fight the remaining one,

GRANNIT SKILL 4

If you win, turn to 192.

STAMINA 3

113

Slowly you hack your way through the dense jun-
gle, not really certain of the direction in which vou
are heading. Later, you catch a brief glimpse of the
sun through the trees, enough to orientate yourself,
ancl turn to head west (turn to 7),

114-115
114

The Dwarfs walk quickly through the tunnels, their
knowledge of the complex network acquired
through months of slavery. They finally come to a
halt and one of them whispers to you that another
group of prisoners is working around the next
bend. You hear the dull sounds of picks and ham-
mers hitting rock and tell the Dwarfs that they
should walk on and that you will signal to them the
moment they should attack the prisoners’ guards.
They walk round the bend and you see a group of
men and Elves chained together working at a rock-
face, Two ORC GUARDS are yelling at them to
work faster. They look surprised to see you but do
not see through your disguise until you are almost
alongside them. They scream a battle-cry and drat
their swords. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn
to 265. If you are Unlucky, turn to 138.

115

The spear skewers the pig and brings it to an abrupt
halt. You gather some wood and build a fire, eager
to roast the pig. When it is finally cooked, you sit
down on the ground to enjoy a much-needed feast.
Add 3 STAMINA points. With your strength re-
newed, vou set off west again (turn to 170).

oe
, ae
She

116-117

116

The food is very appetizing and you sit down to
enjoy it. Add 2 STAMINA points. As you are
finishing the last of it, you suddenly hear a rustling
in the bushes behind you. There was a good reason
for the owner of the food to hang it in the tree: to
keep it out of reach of the BEAR which is about to
attack you,

BEAR SKILL 10 STAMINAG

if you win, turn to 247, You may Escape after two
Attack Rounds by running away from the Bear (turn
to 27).

117

As you continue your climb, the old man jumps into
defensive action. A barrage of coconuts is hurled
down at you, and although you tell him that you
mean no harm, he continues throwing down what-
ever is to hand, shrieking ‘Go away" at the top of his
voice. By the time you reach the platform, you have
a few painful lumps on your head (lose 1 STAMINA

118-119

point). Now you see the man at the far side of the
sheltered platform, standing nervously with a bam-
boo pole in his hands, wearing nothing but canvas
shorts. Will you:

Offer him some of your
Provisions?

Leave him alone and continue
north-west through the under-
growth? Turn to 375

Step on the platform and pull
his bamboo pole away from him? Turn to 349

Turn to 46

118
You fall back, clutching madly at the air, to land
heavily on the ground. Lose 1 STAMINA point. You
climb back up the tree immediately, flicking the
Tarantula off with your sword. Turn to 80.

. 119

In the fine sand on the ground you notice traces of
old footprints leading out of the gorge. They end
abruptly in front of you, and there are signs of a

120-121

struggle. Two pairs of footprints lead back down the
gorge, with two straight lines behind them as
though their owners have dragged a body behind
them. As you follow the trail of the footprints, you
catch sight of a shiny object in the sand. You prod it
with your foot and see an oval snuff-box made of
brass, Picking it up you see that it has a hinged lid. If
you wish to open the snuff-box, turn to 41. If you
would rather throw it back into the dust and con-
tinue to follow the footprints, turn to 325,

120

The word ‘Gonchong’ strikes fear into the Hobgob-
lin. He shrieks in terror and hurls his pike at you.
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 62. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 240.

121

The Elves and men cheer when the second Orc is
slain. The Dwarfs break their chains and now you
have fourteen friends to help you finish your quest.
One of them is from Oyster Bay, and despite his joy
at the prospect of freedom, he is saddened by the
news of Mungo’s death. Armed with their own
tools of slavery, the prisoners ask you to lead them
to attack the stone fort used as the prison camp
where the Lizard King still resides, protected by his
mutant slaves and élite guards. You agree to da so
and set off again through the tunnels to release the
rest of the slave miners. Roll one die. [f you roll 1 or
2, turn t) 251. If you roll 3 or 4, turn to 293. If you roll
5 or 6, turn to 32.

a a ee
122-125

122
You wipe the thick blood off your sword and trudge
off west again, wondering what other creatures
might be lurking in the black waters of the marsh-
land. Turn to 37.

123

Despite the Lizard King’s terror, the Gonchong
forces him to attack you with his lethal fire sword.
Frightened by the flame, your monkey jumps off
your shoulder and disappears. The Lizard King
immediately attacks you with staggering ferocity,
now that his fear is gone (turn to 346}.

124
The snake's venom is too strong for your system to
endure and you lose consciousness. Test your Luck.
If you are Lucky, turn to 156. If you are Unlucky,
turn to 357.

; 125
You are about to pass out from the pain when the
Shaman steps forward and takes the bones from
you. You have passed the test. If you have now
passed three tests, turn to 214. If not, which sill you
try next?

Luck Turn to 2
Fear Turn to 75
Revulsion Turn to 183
Strength Turn to 220
Dexterity Turn to 335

126-127

126

You reach into your backpack and take out three
portions of your Provisions and divide them among
the Pygmies. They each smell the food before trying
it. They look at each other and all stop chewing at
once, They spit out the food, noisily expressing
their disgust. One of them signals to the others to
attack you, but just as he pulls his stone club from
his belt, he falls over clutching his stomach, The
others too begin to stagger; your food has made
them ill. You waste no more time and head off west
into the undergrowth as fast as you can (furn to 7).

127
The Hobgoblin is obviously very stupid as he be-
lieves you to be one of the Lizard King’s guards. He
thrusts out his pike and says in a deep voice, ‘What
is the password?’ What will you reply?

‘What?’ Turn to 193
‘Gonchong.’ Turn to 120
‘Fire Island.’ Turn to 287

128-130

128

The water in the pool looks cool and refreshing,
although you are a little perturbed at the layer of
green algae which floats on the surface. As you
bend down to drink, a jet of liquid shoots out of the
pond towards you from a wide green mouth which
suddenly appears in the water. Roll two dice. If the
number rolled is the same or less than your SKILL,
turn to 248. If the number rolled is greater than your
SKILL, turn to 351.

129

You grab the pole from the medicine man, but at the
same instant it becomes an iron bar, as hot as if it
had just been pulled from a blacksmith’s fire. Lose 2
STAMINA points, 1 SKILL point and 1 LUCK point for
your foolish aggression towards the powerful Sha-
man. You drop the iron bar on the ground, staring at
itin disbelief. If you now wish to talk to the Shaman,
turn to 324. If you would rather attack him with your
sword, turn to 157.

130

You punch the man full in the face and knock him
into the river. He screams but does not try to climb
back on to the raft. You feel guilty about leaving him
behind, but you must press ahead with your mis-
sion (turn to 14).

Er

Sie eae hr emma erry Wi PHL)

131-133

131
Your mind is out of control and you are unable to
stop yourself from screaming out, You have failed
the test and the Shaman will not now divulge his
secrets. The vile images fade away and the Shaman
points south-east, saying that the prison colony lies
in that direction and that you must face the Gon-
chong without his help. You turn around and walk
down the side of the volcano towards the Lizard
King’s stronghold (turn to 168).

132
You stretch out as far as you can but are unable to
reach your sword, The vine’s grip becomes tighter
and tighter and you soon lose consciousness. You
have fallen prey to a carnivorous tree.

133
The mutant has a shield which you decide to take, as
it is light yet strong. Add 1 SKILL point. The prison
colony cannot be too far away and you waste no
more time in setting off again (turn to 218).

134-138

134
Gradually your vision returns and you sheathe your
sword, If you still wish to drink at the pool, turn to
g2. If you would rather head off west again, turn to
222.

135
At the junction you may either continue straight on

(turn to 39) or turn right (turn to 361),

136
You put the whip in ur bel and decide what to do
next, [f you wish to pick upa rusty knife, turn to 275.
[f you would rather head directly over to the door in
the far wall, turn to 312.

137
You gesticulate to the Pygmies, to tell them that you
will not give them anything. They look annoyed
and each blows a dart at you. Roll one die to
determine the number of darts that stick into your
flesh and deduct 1 STAMINA point for each. If you
are still alive, turn to 373.

138
One of the Orcs swings at you with its sword and
you must fight it.

ORC GUARD SKILLI

If you win, turn to 121. You may Escape by backing
off towards the Dwarfs (turn to 11).

STAMINA 7

ee ees
1397143

139
Once again you head off south-east, walking over

sand and rock, Riding towards you on a dinosaur-
like steed is a heavily armoured reptilian. It is a
mutant LIZARD MAN riding a STYRACOSAUR-
US. The Lizard Man urges his mount into a trot to
attack you.

STYRACOSAURUS § sxiLi1i1 STAMINA 10

if you win, turn to.95.

140
You fall on to the floor, but do not injure yourself.
You stand up but do not get much further as the
tunne] comes toa dead end. You have no option but
to return to the last junction (turn to 378).

141
You set off again in search of the Shaman (turn to
399).

142
You look over your shoulder as you run, to see if
the girl and her Tiger are giving chase. Fortunately,
they are nowhere to be seen. You slow down and
walk down the valley to reconnoitre with the freed
slaves (turn to 279).

143
You pluck a few lush leaves from a funnel-shaped
plant and rub them furiously on to your lumpy face.

144-145

The relief is instantaneous and the itching mercifully
stops. If you still wish to eat the fungus, turn to 170,
If you would rather set off again through the under-
growth, turn to 224.

144
Your sword pierces the heart of the Lizard Man,
killing it instantly (turn to 173).

145

As you slowly put your hand into the hole, fear
grips you on hearing a familiar rattling sound. You
try to retract your hand before the fangs of the
RATTLESNAKE sink into your arm, but it is too
quick: its poison is in your blood. You waste no time
and cut the wound with your own sword to draw
the blood. If your STAMINA score is 18 or below,
turn to 264. If it exceeds 18, turn to 55.

146
The bush has poison-tipped thorns. Lose 3 sTAM-
INA points, If you are still alive, you stagger on
resolutely towards the prison colony (turn to 291).

147

Behind the huts, a path leads through the trees to
the rocky face of a steep hill. In the centre of the
tock-face you see the square shape of a mine en-
trance leading into the hill. There are many foot-
prints leading in and out of the mine. You step
carefully inside, keeping close to the wall. The
tunnel is lit by torches which cast eerie shadows all
around. You sense that you are walking downhill,
and soon arrive at ajunction. If you wish to turn left,
turn to 274. If you wish to turn right, turn to 28.

148
Not far away from your shelter you find a cluster of
banana trees. The fruit is out of reach and you have
to climb up to get it. Test your Luck. If youare Lucky,
turn to 8o. If you are Unlucky, turn to 23.
449-151

149

The old man takes the food and begins to draw a
rough map of the island on a piece of cloth with
some charcoal. He points to where you are now and
also marks the sites of the mine and prison colony
which is where the Lizard King lives. You fold the
map up and put it in your backpack, Just as you are
about to climb down the vine, the old man says,
‘And for just a little bit more of your delicious food |
will give you something really useful.’ If you wish to
give him yet another portion of your Provisions,
turn to go. If you would rather climb down and
continue north-west, turn to 375.

150
You somehow manage to escape the raging torrent
and fall breathless on to the right-hand bank. The
Water Elemental’s fury subsides behind you as you
lie exhausted in the mud. Tes! your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 104. If you are Unlucky, turn to 159.

151

The Shaman hands you his two bones, telling you to
hald one in each hand. All your muscles immedi-
ately start to bulge and then you feel as though your

rr SS eae

152-153

insides are expanding. You believe you are going to
burst and the pain is excruciating. If you beg the
Shaman to stop the pain, turn to 67. If you grit your
teeth and try to bear the pain, turn to 125.

152
Behind the hut you see a narrow goat-track leading
up the side of the cliff. You wend your way upitand
are quite exhausted by the time you reach the top.
You take a swig of water from your flask and realize
that water shortage could be a problem for you on
this island. Looking west you see the daunting sight
of the sleeping volcano standing above the trees,
but no sign of life — although you can certainly hear
it; a cacophony of bird and insect noise. With the
light quickly fading, you decide to camp for the
night behind some rocks. You do not sleep very well
and are awake at first light, eager to set off. You
decide to head directly west into the trees (turn to

391).

153
Your last fatal blow sends the Lizard King crashing
on to the stone floor. Will you:

Turn to salute your troops? Turn to 188
Sever the Gonchong’s proboscis? Turn to 384
Search through the Lizard King’s

clothing? Turn to 54

— a A A A

154-156

154
You stumble overa stone on the floor and drop your
sword as you try to stop yourself from falling. Test
your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 38. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 319.

155
The magical properties of the red powder help you
to control your mind and you gradually overcome
the terrible nightmare. You have passed the test. If
you have now passed three tests, turn to 214. If not,
which will you try next?

Luck Turn to2

Pain Turn to 151

Revulsion Turn to 183

Strength * Turn to 220

Dexterity Turn to 335
& <4 =

as

156

Although you come close to death, you survive the
snake's venom, However, the poison has seriously
weakened you. Eventually, you regain conscious-
ness and rest, but your attributes now consist of a
SKILL score of 5 and a STAMINA score of 4. If you
wish to drive the Rattlesnake out of its hole with
your sword, turn to 5. If you would rather walk
carefully down into the gorge to head west, turn to
119.
157-158

157
It is a fatal mistake to attack the powerful medicine

man. A simple chant from his lips turns your sword
into a writhing SERPENT which wraps itself
around your arm, You scream in terror and try to
shake it off. Your brief struggle is futile as the
Serpent's fangs are filled with deadly poison which
kills you almost instantly.

The ground under your feet becomes softer and
softer, until with each step you are sinking into
black mire up to your knees. It is very tiring to keep
going, and you begin to worry; the whole landscape
is water-covered with only the occasional clump of
reeds breaking the surface. Still, you press on re-
solutely until brought up short by the sight of a
flaying tentacled arm unfolding out of the black
water in front of you. Another arm reaches out
before a hideous octopus-like beast with dark-green
lumpy skin rises slowly into the air on its six arms, It
is the loathsome SLIME SUCKER and you must
fight it. If you havea spear, turn to 394. [f you do not
have a spear, you must fight it with your sword.

SLIME SUCKER SKILL 10 STAMINA 9

During each Attack Round you must reduce your
Attack Strength by 2, because of your tiredness and
lack of mobility. If you win, turn to 122.

159

Although you were too concerned with swimming
for your life to notice, the force of the water ripped
your backpack off your back. All your Provisions
and possessions have been washed away, Lose 2
LUCK points. Fortunately, your sword remains in its
scabbard. You have no choice but to continue your
journey on foot-(turn to 197).

160
You hear buzzing above you and look up to see a
GIANT WASP diving down at you, attracted by
the sweet scent of the fruit juice. You draw your
sword just in time to defend yourself.

GIANT WASP SKILL 6 STAMINA 6

If you win without losing any Attack Rounds, turn
to 141. If you win but have lost at least one Attack
Round during combat, turn to 52.

161-162

161

Taking the Lizard Man’s cloak to disguise yourself,
you form the Dwarfs into a line so that it appears
that you are a guard in charge of a chain gang of
slaves. You crack the whip with a smile and set off
down the tunnel, You follow the Dwarfs down
endless tunnels, deeper and deeper into the mine.
As you pass by another tunnel branch, you see a
Lizard Man walking along it towards you. Tesf your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 74. If you are Un-
lucky, turn to 262.

162
No amount of tugging at the handle is going to open
the door. If you wish to try to charge it down, turn
to 50. If you would rather walk back into the court-
yard and try to open the other doors leading off it,
turn to 84.

Pea

163-164

163
The Lizard Men see you and react quickly. You must
fight them both at the same time.

SKILL STAMINA
First LIZARD MAN — .
Second LIZARD MAN 8 8

During combat, both Lizard Men will have a sepa-
rate attack on you in each Attack Round, but you
must choose which of the two you will fight. Attack
your nominated target as ina normal battle. Against
the ather, you will throw for your Attack Strength in
the normal way, but you will not wound it if your
Attack Strength is greater — you must count this as
though you have just parried its blow. Of course if
its Attack Strength is greater, it will have wounded
you in the normal way. If you win, turn to 368.

164
The Goblin merely grunts in his sleep and does not
wake up. You leave the room quietly, taking the
breastplate with you. You try it on in the corridor
and just manage to squeeze into it. Add 1 sKILL
point. You close the Goblin’s door and walk to the
spiral staircase (turn to 8).

The sand all around Mungo is red with blood. You
kneel down beside him and gently lift his head in
your arms. His eyes open a little and he manages a
half-smile despite his agony. In a whisper he says,
‘Well, we got them, but a lot of good itdid me, Make
sure you get the Lizard King for me, won’t you?’
Then his eyes close and he slumps down dead. You
bury him on the beach near the cliff, marking the
grave with his sword skewered into the sand. You
see a narrow goat-track leading up the side of the
cliff and then look back at the chest lying on the
beach, If you wish to walk up the goat-track, turn to
200. If you wish to open the chest, turn to 398.

166
As you enter his cell, you are surprised that the old
man remains silent. If you are wearing a Ring of
Confusion, turn to 294. If you are not wearing this
ring, turn to 318.

167
You run after the pig waving your sword in the air,
but it is tao agile. It scurries off across the plain and
is soon out of view, You slow down to walking pace
and continue west still thinking about the succulent
roast dinner you might have had (turn to 179).

168-170

168

You walk quickly south-east, eager to meet up with
the freed slaves. You soon arrive at the edge of a
ravine which is too wide for you to jump over. You
walk east, infuriated by the time you are wasting.
Ahead you see a stone arch traversing the ravine,
but an armoured HOBGOBLIN is standing guard
by it. Will you:

Try to bluff your way across the

stone archway? Turn to 127
Offer him a gold nugget (if you
have one) to let you cross? Turn to 252
Attack him with your sword? Turn to 328
169
The Headhunters are more adept at running

through the jungle than you, and are quickly catch-
ing up. You decide to turn and fight. Fortunately,
the path through the undergrowth is too narrow for
more than one Headhunter to fight you at once.

SKILL STAMINA
First HEADHUNTER 7 5
Second HEADHUNTER 6 6b
Third HEADHUNTER 6 7

Fight them one ata time, and if you win, turn to 261.

170

In the distance you see rising ground, and, beyond
in the north-west, the ever-daunting shape of the
sleeping volcano. It is not long before you reach the
bushy bank ofa river running slowly south-east. On

PC Cee ee

a

171-175

the far side the ground is quite steep and tree-
covered. If you have read the message in the snuff-
box, turn to 288. If you have not read this message,
turn to 88.

171
You craw! towards the fire, hoping that the
Headhunters will be too engrossed in their ritual to
notice you. Tes! your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to
215. If you are Unlucky, turn to 302.

172
You are soon back at another junction. If you wish to
keep walking straight ahead, turn to 383. [If you
wish to turn right, turn to 4.

173
The Dwarf shouts for joy as the Lizard Man slumps
to the floor. If you have a picklock’s wire, turn to
393. If you do not own this thief’s tool, turn to 216.

174
The paste tastes bitter and your mouth starts to go
numb. Your body begins to glow and you feel full of
energy. Add 2 sTAMINA points. You grab your
sword and start to hack your way west again, with
renewed vigour (turn to 113).

175
You manage to crawl out backwards from under-
neath the rubble. You dust yourself down and walk
back to the last junction; you cannot go forward

176-177

because the tunnel is blocked. Back at the junction,
you may either turn left (turn to 172}, or head
straight on (turn to 278).

176
The Shaman starts to shake his feathered pole
which makes a rattling sound. He presumes you are
an enemy, as you have not displayed your sign of
friendship. Will you:

Try to talk to him? Turn to 324
Try to knock the feathered pole out

of his hand? Turn to 129
Attack him with your sword? Turn to 157

._ «
° - ~~ ae 4
aa a. tai
a

177
The Headhunters have no items of equipment on
them, but have a hide bag containing bananas and
caconuts. You save your own Provisions and eat the
Headhunters’ food. Add 1 STAMINA point. You
wonder if their village is nearby, and decide to climb
a tree to get a better view, From the top you see
smoke rising not far away in the south-west;
perhaps from a village, Directly west, you see the
trees gradually thin out, and away in the far north-
west, you see the daunting shape of the volcano.
178-181

You climb down from the tree and plan which way
to head. If you wish to keep going west, turn to 229.
If you wish to go north-west in order to circumvent
the smoke, turn to 12.

178

On a level piece of ground you see a circle of
polished stones which contains a pile of artefacts: a
bracelet, a clay doll, a tin mug and a buckle are just
some of the things lying on the ground. Perhaps it is
a collection place for gifts to the Shaman from his
visitors. If you wish to place one of your own items
in the stone circle, turn to 233. [f you would rather
take any of the items from the circle, turn to 306.

179
It does not take you long to chop down enough trees
to make a small raft. You tie the logs together with
vines and drag your raft into the river, Using a long
thin branch, you are soon punting your way up-
river (turn to 387).

180
You find yourself in a corridor which turns sharply
to the right. On the corner is a spiral staircase
winding up the centre of a tower. You have a feeling
that you should climb up the staircase (turn fo 82).

181
It is a slim chance, but you decide to try and capture
the Water Elemental in your magical pouch. You
open it as wide as possible and wait for the Water

182-184

Elemental to come crashing down on top of you.
Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 230. If you
are Unlucky, turn to 257.

182
You run at the Giant Crab with your sword drawn.
It drops Mungo into the sand in order to attack you
with both pincers,

GIANT CRAB SKILL 10

If you win, turn to 366,

STAMINA 11

. 183
The Shaman taps you with the end of his pole and
suddenly your whole body is crawling with mag-
gots. You feel them writhing around inside your
mouth and ears. lf you are wearing a Ring of Con-
fusion, turn to 64. If you are not wearing this ring,
turn to 283.

184
You stumble overa stone on the floor but manage to
stop yourself from falling over and making any
noise, Add 1 Luck point. You breathe a sigh of relief
and continue to follow the Lizard Man (turn to §1).

185-187

185
With your sword raised high, you lunge at your
nearest foe, Itis a mutant LIZARD MAN.

MUTANT LIZARD

MAN SKILL9 STAMINA &

If you win, turn to 341.

186

As you reach into your backpack, you are almost
trembling with hunger. You devour a portion of
your Provisions and craw! into your shelter to settle
down for the night. Looking up, you see wispy
clouds in shades of pink and purple gradually
deepen in colour as the night sky takes over from
the day. Despite the deafening noise of thousands
of insects enjoying the cool night air, you are soon
fast asleep. Test your Luck, lf you are Lucky, turn to
388, If you are Unlucky, turn fo 348.

187
The bag contains merely a few broad leaves wrap-
ped in small bundles, You squeeze the bundles and
they feel as if they contain some paste or dough.
You unwrap the leaves and find a bright green paste
inside, Will you:

Rub some of the paste into your Turn to 377
wounds?

Eat some of the paste?

Leave the paste and head off west
again?

Turn to 174
Turn to 113

188

188
Turning your back on the dreaded Gonchong is a
mistake, Your troops hardly have time to enjoy the
slaying of the Lizard King before the Gonchong
withdraws its proboscis and jumps on to your head.
Itsneedle-like proboscis skewers itself through your
forehead and implants itself in your brain. You are
now controlled by the Gonchong and can only
watch helplessly as the Lizard King’s army an-
nihilates your demoralized troops. The battle is lost.

189-191

189

Before the unconscious Lizard Man comes round,
you rummage through its pockets and find three
iron keys which you put in your own pocket. You
then tie its arms together behind its back and drag it
into the hut. As soon as it regains consciousness,
you demand information about the slave mines. It
replies that the entrance to the mines is not far away
~about a hundred metres beyond the huts. You tie
the Lizard Man toa postand leave the hut to find the
mines (turn to 147).

190
As soon as you touch the hilt of your sword, the
native girl lets go of the rope. The Tiger is on top of
you in one leap and you lose the first Attack Round,
if you are stillalive, you manage to draw your sword
to defend yourself,

SABRE-TOOTHED
TIGER

If you win, turn to 343.

SKILL i1 STAMINAS

191
Your hands are slippery with mud: you miss the
huge Slime Sucker, and the spear falls harmlessly
into the water. Now you must fight the Slime Sucker
with your sword alone.

SLIME SUCKER — skILL1Ww STAMINAQ

If you win, turn to 122,

192
You decide to walk on down the tunnel, but you
soon arrive ata dead end, You have no option but to
turn round and walk back to the junction (turn to

57}.

193
The Hobgoblin stares at you dumbly and says, “Yes,
that’s right, “What” is the password. You may
cross.’ He steps to the side and you walk quickly
over the archway to the other side of the ravine (turn

to 139).

194

You walk along the side of the hill following the
route of the gorge. Looking over to the hill on the far
side of the gorge, you suddenly see a landslide start,
sencling rocks and boulders crashing into the gorge-
Although you are not enjoying the tiring climb, you
are relieved that you were not in the gorge. Add 1
LUCK point. If you still wish to walk along the side of
the hill above the gorge, turn to 83. If you now wish
to risk walking down the gorge, turn to 382.

195-196

195

The door opens into a dingy room. Sunlight streams
through a single barred window in the far wall. A
straw mattress fills one comer of the room on which
there lies a GOBLIN snoring heavily. An iron
breastplate hangs ona nail over his bed. Lf you wish
to tiptoe into the room to steal the breastplate, turn
to 333. If you would rather close the door and walk
lo the spiral staircase, turn to 8,

196
You step round the huge body of the Giant Lizard
and press on down the gorge. At last the gorge
widens out to become a grassy plain, and the hills
are soon behind you. Not faraway, some ten metres
to your left, you see a pond where many birds are
drinking. If you want to drink at the pond, turn to
128, If you would rather continue west, turn to 222.

197-199

197

Looking west, you see the sun slowly sinking until it
looks like a big red balloon sitting on the sea. Soon it
will be dark and so you decide to camp down for the
night between two rocks which you cover over with
branches and leaves, You are very hungry after your
ordeal in the river and realize that you must eat
something soon, If you have any Provisions left,
turn to 186. If you do not have any food left, turn to
148.

1
The abandoned hut is titered with broken furni-
ture, smashed pottery and a few bits of torn cloth-
ing. You kick away a dirty rug and see the handle
of a trapdoor in the floorboards. If you wish to lift

the trapdoor, turn to 267. If you would rather leave
the hut, turn to152.

19

The Shaman listens intently as you explain about
the Lizard King and your mission to destroy him.
You tell him that you wish to know how to kill the
parasitic Gonchong, thus reducing the Lizard
King’s power. The Shaman jumps in the air on
hearing the word Gonchong, obviously not realiz-
ing that there was one on the island. In fractured
sentences the Shaman explains that for him to share
some of his secret magic with you, you must first
earn the right, no matter how noble your mission is.
He tells you that the test will be disturbing and
painful. lf you agree to the Shaman’s terms, turn to

200-201

397. If you would rather face the Lizard King with-
out the Shaman’‘s knowledge, turn to 237.

200

You wend your way up the goat-track and are quite
exhausted by the time you reach the top. You take a
swig of water from your flask and realize that water
shortage could be a problem for you on this island.
Looking west, you see the daunting sight of the
sleeping volcano standing above the trees, but no
sign of life — although you can certainly hear it: a
cacophony of bird and insect noise. With the light
quickly fading you decide to camp down for the
night behind some rocks. You do not sleep very well
and are awake at first light, eager to set off. You
decide to head directly west into the trees (turn to

391).

201

You lead your band of fighters out of the mines and
attack the mud huts where the guards live. The last
of them is soon slain and the former prisoners begin
to celebrate by cheering and singing. An old Dwarf
begins a jig and is soon encircled by a clapping,
happy audience, For the moment, all sufferings and
troubles are forgotten. While everybody is still re-
velling in their freedom, an Elf comes up to you and
asks to speak with you alone. You walk away from
the others to listen to what the Elf has to say, Witha
worried expression on his face, he tells you that an
attack on the Lizard King’s fort would be suicidal.
For the sake of power and near-immortality, the

202

Lizard King has allowed a hideous parasite, the
Gonchong, to attach itself to his head. With the
Gonchong’s proboscis implanted firmly in his brain,
the Lizard King remains invincible, telepathically
controlling his mutant warriors. To kill the Lizard
King, the Gonchong must first be destroyed. But
only the island’s Shaman knows the secret of its
mayical powers. It cannot be harmed without the
knowledge of how to break the link with its host,
Alas, the Elf has never seen the Shaman in his four
years on the island. Shamans lead solitary lives,
away from other natives, practising their elemental
craft. You thank the Elf for his information and walk
back to the others, raising your arms to silence
them. You explain about the Gonchong and tell
them that you are going to find the Shaman alone; it
would be impossible to track him down in a group.
You tell them to make their own way to the fort and
that you sill meet them there to lead the attack in
one or two days’ time. They reluctantly agree to the
plan and you set off immediately to find the Shaman
(turn to 363).

202
The spear finds its target, plunging deeply into the
soft green flesh of the huge Slime Sucker. Although
weakened by its wound, the Slime Sucker still man-
ages to lunge forward in attack.

SLIME SUCKER  sxiLL8 STAMINA 5

If you win, turn to 122.

203-205

203
The Lizard King finally turns to look at you, staring
in disbelief at the sight of his dead pet. He steps
towards you angrily, cleaving the air with his fire
sword. If you are carrying a monkey on your shoul-
der, turn to 314. If you are without a monkey, turn
to 36.

204
Standing precariously on the racking raft, you draw
your sword to attack the vicious Crocodile.

CROCODILE SKILL 6

if you win, turn to 31.

STAMINA F

205

Your sudden movement scares the girl, and she
lets go of the rope holding the Tiger. It is on top
of you in one leap and you lose the first Attack
Round. If you are still alive, you manage lo draw
your sword to defend yourself.

SABRE-TOOTHED
TIGER

if you win, turn to 343.

SKILL 11 STAMINAS

206-208

206
He grabs the hand-axe from you, looking very ex-
cited. The others gather round him and start to
chant. They seem jubilant with their new acqui-
sition which they seem to regard as a religious
artefact. Will you:

Leave them and disappear west

into the undergrowth? Turn to 7
Askthem forsomethinginretum? Turn to 86
Attack them with your sword? Turn to 359

207

The Grannit suddenly releases its grip on your shin
and drops to the ground. You give ita hefty kick and
watch it roll down the tunnel. The residual Rattle-
snake poison in your system has killed it. The other
Grannits sense what has happened and retreat into
the shadowy recesses of the tunnel wall. If you
possess a Pouch of Unlimited Contents, turn to 371.
If you do not have this pouch, turn to 192.

208
He looks at you mistrustfully, telling you that you
should have spotted his warning sign by the water
pool. Nevertheless, he offers you the chance to
redeem yourself and establish friendship by giving

209-210

him something from your backpack in exchange for
a feather from his hair. You have no choice but to
comply with the request of the Shaman (make the
necessary deduction on your Adventure Sheet). With
your feather in place, the Shaman is now ready to
listen to you (turn to 199).

209
You miss! The spear falls harmlessly into the water
beyond the Hydra and now you must fight it with
your sword,

SKILL STAMINA
HYDRA (left head) 9 9
HYDRA {righthead) 9 9

Both heads will make a separate attack on you in
each Attack Round, but you must choose which of
the two you will fight each time. Attack your chosen
head as in a normal battle. Against the other you
will throw for your Attack Strength in the normal
way, but you will not wound it if your Attack
Strength is greater; you must just count this as
though you have defended yourself against its bite.
Of course, if its Attack Strength is greater, it will
wound you. If you win, turn to 389.

210

A large boulder lands heavily on the shoulder of
your sword arm. Lose 4 STAMINA points and 2
SKILL points. If you are still alive, you shield your
head with your good arm and flee down the gorge
as fast as you can (turn to 253).

211-213

211
You are about half-way across the beach when
suddenly a large mound of sand by the sea’s edge
starts to rise into the air. Then you see six large spiny
les and a pair of pincers, and as the sand slides off
its huge shell, your eyes widen at the daunting sight
of the GIANT CRAB before you, It scuttles across
the sand, picking up Mungo with one of its pincers;
Mungo cries out in pain, unable to free himself from
the vice-like grip. If you wish to help Mungo, turn to
182. If you would rather run to the stone hut, turn to

307.

212
[tis soon hot and you are a little concerned that your
water bottle is nearly empty. You search for water
and eventually find a shallow pool of rain waterina
rock basin. You drink your fill and top up your
water bottle. You are about to set off again when
you notice some chalk marks on the rocks by the
pool. If you wish to read them, turn to 72. If you
would rather set off immediately, turn to 30.

213
You soon arrive at yet another junction. lf you wish
ta turn left, turn to 68. If you wish to turn right, turn

ta 383.

SEF

=

——— a

214

214

The Shaman is satisfied that you have earned the
right to learn his secrets. He rolls his eyes up into his
head and stands perfectly still with his arms out-
stretched. In a trance, he begins to describe the
parasitic Gonchong. Its appearance is like a giant
harvest spider, only its proboscis connects into the
brain of its host; in this case the Lizard King. To kill
it, the proboscis must be severed within seconds of
its host being killed, otherwise it might leap on to its
assailant in a desperate attempt to find a new host,
But while it controls him, the Lizard King remains
almost invincible, unharmed by normal weapons.
Only fire swords can injure the host of a Gonchong.
The Lizard King uses them himself, but his collec-
tion has an illusion spell cast on them to make them
appear as rusty old knives that no one would steal.
Using a fire sword and controlled by the Gonchong,
the Lizard King is a deadly fighter. Only one crea-
ture can scare him — a monkey! Lizard Men suffer
from an innate fear of monkeys, even if controlled
by a Gonchong. The Shaman slowly comes out of
his trance and points to the south-east, saying that
the prison colony lies in that direction, You bid him
farewell and walk down the side of the volcano
towards the Lizard King’s stronghold (turn to 168),

215

Grabbing one of the burning brushes, you dash
behind one of the huts and set it alight. Then you
run to the next hut and set it on fire as well. The huts
are soon blazing away, and you watch from behind
the next hut as the Headhunters run around the
clearing, shouting instructions to each other in total
confusion. The man tied to the post is temporarily
left unguarded, and you min to him to set him free.
With one swipe of your sword, you cut through the
vines holding him to the post, and run off towards
the jungle, yelling at the man to follow. As you are
running, one of the Headhunters sees you and
throws his spear at you. Roll one die. If the number
rolled is 4 or 2, turn to 76. If the number rolled is 4 or
4, turn to 250. If the number rolled is 5 or 6, turn to

323.

216

You tell the Dwart that you are leading the attack on
the fort and ask where the Lizard King is hiding. He
tells you that the Lizard King is on the fort's front
battlement, urging on his troops. You tell the Dwarf
that you will deal with the Lizard King and come
back to free him later. You say farewell and run
through the open doorway ahead (turn to 180}.

217-218

217

The Spit Toad’s teeth sink painfully into your
arm, but fortunately not your sword-arm. Lose 2
STAMINA points, You manage to force the Spit
Toad‘s mouth open with your sword and roll out
from under its massive belly. You stand up and
lunge atit blindly.

SPIT TOAD SKILL 5

During each Attack Round you must reduce your
Attack Strength by 3 because of your blindness. If
you win, turn to 134.

STAMINA 6

218
Your legs brush against a thorny bush, instantly
drawing blood. Have you drunk the aniseed-tasting
liquid from the jug in the hut on the beach? If you
have, turn to 258. If you have not drunk this liquid,
turn to 146,

219-222

219

The spear flies past the pig to land harmlessly on the
grass. You watch disheartened as your potential
roast dinner disappears into the distance. You pick
up your spear and continue west (turn to 179).

220

The Shaman points at a boulder and ask you to liftit,
You wrap your arms around it as far as you can and
heave, Roll two dice. If the total is the same or less
than your STAMINA Score, turn to 98. If the total is
higher than your STAMINA score, turn to 369,

221

Close to where the Giant Dragonfly now lies in a
crumpled heap, you see a patch of clam-shaped
fungus attached to a rotting log. If you wish to eat
some of the fungus, turn to 385. If you would rather
set off again through the undergrowth, turn to 224.

222

To your left you see movement; a small creature is
Tunning across the plain. As it approaches, you see
that it is a small pig. The thought of roast suckling
pig makes your mouth water. If you have a spear,
turn to 342. If you do not have a spear, turn to 167,

7

223-225

223

What you see inside the chamber fills you with rage.
Six Dwarfs stripped to the waist and chained
together like animals are toiling with hammers at a
rock face. An armoured LIZARD MAN urges them
to work faster, occasionally lashing one of them
across the back with its bullwhip. You put the pail
down and run forward to attack the Lizard Man.

LIZARD MAN SKILL8 STAMINA 7

if you are still alive after two Attack Rounds, turn to
3:
224

You decide that you have gone far enough north-
west to avoid the Headhunters’ village and begin to
cut your way directly west through the jungle. You
have not gone far when you are surprised to entera
small clearing, completely free of vegetation. A
large green crystal lies in the centre of the clearing,
glowing and radiating heat. Will you:

Walk round the crystal and

continue west? Turn to 71
Touch the crystal? Turn to 232
Try to chip a piece off the crystal

with your sword? Turn to 370

225

[The Shaman’s eyes narrow as he utters a single
word — ‘Liar!’ Suddenly the ground begins to quake
and then a huge crack opens up beneath your feet.
— [a

226-227

Steam rises out of it, scalding your leg badly. Lose 3
STAMINA points. You apologize to the Shaman for
lying to him, explaining that you were only trying to
gain his acceptance. You did not realize that a
feather was the Shaman’s symbol of peace. He
grunts and touches your legs with his pole and the
pain immediately disappears, Turn to 301.

226
The tunnel narrows and you have to stoop because
of the low ceiling. You appear to be ina disused part
of the mine. If you wish to carry on walking down
this tunnel, turn to 213. If you would rather walk
back to the last junction and turn left, turn to 101,

227
If you possess three iron keys, turn to 273. If you do
not have any keys, turn to 162.

228-230

228

There are several large rocks jutting out of the water
which you have to steer around. Itis hard work and
vou grow tired. You decide to pull into the bank for
awhile to rest. Under the shade of some trees you lie
down and fall asleep, When you wake up you see
that you are covered with huge mosquito bites. Test
your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 236. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 103.

229
As you hack your way through the thick under-
growth you hear the distant sound of drums coming
from where you saw the smoke rising. If you wish to
head south-west towards it, turn to 337. If you
prefer to keep heading west, turn to 113.

230

The force of the water crashing down on top of you
is so powerful that you are almost knocked off your
raft. Fortunately, you manage to stand firm, hold-
ing the pouch open. Water disappears inside it and
more is drawn into it as though it is a huge blob of

SS ———— >

231

jelly. As quickly as it started, the turbulence dies
down and the whirlpool disappears; you have
caught the Water Elemental in your incredible
pouch. Add 2 Luck points. Unfortunately, your raft
is breaking up and so you decide to wade over to the
right-hand bank, You cannot risk releasing the
Water Elemental, so you dig a hole and bury your
Pouch of Unlimited Contents (make the necessary
deduction on your Adventure Sheet). You have no
option now but to continue your journey on foot
(turn to 197).

231

The barrel is full of pineapples, all rotten and cov-
ered with fruit flies. But hidden behind the barrel
you see a water bottle lying on the floor. You pull
out the cork and sniff the contents; it might be water
but there is a musty smell rising out of the bottle. If
you wish to drink the liquid, turn to 6, If you would
rather walk over to the door in the far wall, turn to

353:

232-234

232

Slowly and nervously you touch the glowing crys-
tal. A warm glow radiates through your body and
you feel invigorated. Add 3 sTAMINA points for
having benefited from the effects of the regenera-
tion crystal. If you have not done so already, you
may try to chip a piece off the crystal with your
sword (turn to 370). Alternatively, you may leave
the clearing and continue west through the under-
growth (turn to 71).

233
A line of rocks suddenly turns red, leading up the
side of the volcano. You decide to follow the trail of
the red rocks {turn to 249}.

234
You struggle against the raging torrent but are
unable to escape from the whirlpool made by the
Water Elemental, You become weaker and weaker
until you can swim no longer. You black out and are
engulfed by the Water Elemental to share its watery
world for ever.

235-237

235

After a short while the Marsh Hopper turns west
again and you wonder whether itis tinng you out to
lead you into a trap, or whether it is picking the
safest path through the marsh. Your thoughts are
soon answered, as a massive beast rises out of the
mire in front of you, [It is a fwo-headed HYDRA
which slithers towards you on its giant slug-like
body, both of its heads stretching forward to bite
you. If you have a spear, turn to 272. If you do not
have a spear, turn to 29.

236
Although the itching is almost unbearable, there are
no tell-tale signs of fever. You jump back on your
raft and head up-river once again (turn to 379).

237
The Shaman shrugs his shoulders and tells you to
leave immediately, He points south-east, saying
that the prison colony lies in that direction. You turn
around and walk down the side of the volcano
towards the Lizard King’s stronghold (turn to 168),

238-240

238
The liquid tastes of aniseed and is milky in colour.
You gulp it down but feel no effects and can only
presume that it will protect you on the journey
ahead. You put down the jug and leave the hut (turn
to 152).

239
You only manage to stop one of the quick-moving
Grannits and must fight the remaining two one ata
time,

SKILL STAMINA
First GRANNIT 4 3
Second GRANNIT 3 2

If you win, turn to 192.

240
The pike pierces your shoulder, knocking you to the
ground. Lose 2 STAMINA points and 1 SKILL point.
The Hobgoblin surprisingly runs away panic-
stricken rather than finishing you off. When you are
well enough to walk, you stand up and cross over
the archway to the other side of the ravine (turn to

139).

241-243

241
Both the Lizard Men are standing with their backs to
you as you run at them. You are able to hit one of
them on the back of the head with the hilt of your
sword to knock it unconscious, but you must fight
the other.

LIZARD MAN

if you win, turn to 189.

SKILLQ STAMINAS

242
The girl stands motionless as you run away trom
her, Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 142,
if you are Unlucky, turn to 205.

One of the Pygmies steps forward and snatches the
hand-axe away from you. The others gather round

244-245
him and start to chant. They seem very pleased with

their acquisition which they seem to regard as a
religious artefact. Will you:

Leave them and disappear west

into the undergrowth? Turn to 7
Ask them for something inreturn? Turn to 86
Attack them with your sword? Turn to 359

4
You thrust your sword at the leaping Gonchong,
skewering it through its bulbous abdomen. Both the
Lizard King and the Gonchong are slain (turn to

400).

Asmail boulder lands on your shoulder but it strikes
only a glancing blow. Lose 2 STAMINA points. You
shield your head with your arms and flee down the
gorge as fast as you can (turn to 253).

Apart from jumping, there is no way down the
vertical shaft. You decide not to risk it and tum
round to walk back to the junction (turn to 135).

247
The Bear is wearing a leather collar from which

hangs a tiny brass whistle. You put the whistle in
your pocket and set off in search of the Shaman
(turn to 27).

248
You duck below the jet of liquid and jump back to
draw your sword. You stand ready to dodge the
next jet of sticky acid being spat at you by the huge
SPIT TOAD in the pool. Suddenly it leaps out of
the water in an attempt to kill you with its spiked
teeth.

SPIT TOAD

IE vou win, turn to 24.

SKILL § STAMINA6

249-252

249
The head of a man suddenly pops up from behind a

boulder, his hair adorned with coloured beads and
feathers. He steps warily from behind the boulder
holding a feathered staff in one hand and two
animal bones in the other. It is the island’s medicine
man — the Shaman you are seeking. Are you wear-
ing a feather in your hair? If you are, turn to 199. IF
you are not, turn to 176.

250

The spear flies through the air and strikes the poor
man you have just rescued in the middle of his back,
He falls to the ground with an anguished cry, now
beyond any help you can give him. As the other
Headhunters realize what is happening, you run
back into the jungle, the noise of their shrieking
voices not far behind you (turn to 102).

251

By the time you have found all the prisoners and
released them, you will have lost 4 STAMINA points
in battle. [f you are still alive, you are now the leader
of sixty-three dedicated followers, eager for revenge
(turn to 201).

252

The Hobgoblin's eves light up at the sight of the
gold nugget, He thrusts out his hand, eagerly await-
ing your bribe. You place the nugget in his hand and
cross over the archway to the other side of the ravine
(turn to 139}.
2537255

253
You run down the narrow gorge, hopeful that

another rockfall will not occur. The gorge once again
widens out and you slow down to walking pace as
your claustrophobia dies down (turn to 382),

254

The battle is going badly for you as more of your
men fall under the onslaught of the Lizard King’s
fanatical troops. You see their leader behind the
line, urging them on with howling battle cries. Itisa
huge CYCLOPS wearing plate mail and carrying a
mighty battleaxe, and you must defeat it in order to
rally your men.

CYCLOPS SKILL 10 STAMINA 10

If you win, turn to 299.

255

You slip on some loose stones as you try to dodge
the spear. It sinks into your thigh with a sickening
thud. Lose 3 STAMINA points. The Cave Woman
Screams with delight and runs down the hill waving
her club. You clench your teeth and pull the spear
out of your thigh and draw your sword to defend
yourself.

CAVE WOMAN © skis STAMINA 5

During each Attack Round you must reduce your
Attack Strength by 2 because of the injury to your
leg. If you win, turn to 79.

256-257

256

You stretch out and your fingertips just manage to
reach your sword, By now you cannot breathe and
your face is crimson with the veins bulging in your
neck. You desperately hack at the vine until you cut
through it and roll away out of its lethal range. You
cough and rub your neck and watch the hideous
vine drip purple sap. Although you are lucky to
have escaped the clutches of the carnivorous tree,
you have not escaped injury. Lose 1 sKILt point and
2 STAMINA points. Although still weary, you decide
that itis better to keep on the move (turn to 81).

257

Your plan does not work. The force of the water
crashing down on you is too strong and the pouch is
knocked out of your hand and swept away. The raft
breaks up and above the roar of the water, you hear
the gurgling laughter of the Water Elemental. You
gasp for air as you are forced under the pounding
water. You summon all your strength and try to
swim to the bank. Roll two dice. If the total is the
same or less than your SKILL score, turn to 150. If the
total is higher than your SKILL score, turn to 234,

258-261

258
Although the bush has poison-tipped thorns, you
come to no harm. You walk on, oblivious to the
danger which has passed (turn to 291),

259

Knowing that Spit Toads never share their watery
domain with others, you wade confidently into the
pool and pick up the casket. Back on dry land, you
prise the lid off with your sword and tip the contents
on to the grass. They are a glass phial containing a
coloured liquid, a velvet pouch, a pair of red leather
boots, and a gold ring. Will you:

Drink the liquid in the
phial? Turn to 311
Open the pouch? Turn to 26
Try on the boots? Turn to 94
Put the ring on your
finger? Turn to 297
260

You try to stop the leaping Gonchong with your
sword, but fail. [t lands on your head and skewers
its proboscis into your brain. You are now control-
led by the Gonchong and can only watch help-
lessly as the Lizard King’s army annihilates your
demoralized troops. The battle is lost,

261
The remaining Headhunters think you are an in-
vincible God-empowered warrior. They turn and

262-263

flee, crying out at the top of their voices. If you wish
to open the hide bag lying beside the body of one of
the Headhunters, turn to 187. If you would rather
head off west again, turn to 113.

262
The approaching Lizard Man calls out to you,
asking where you are heading. You cannot hope to
impersonate a Lizard Man at close range and are
forced to draw your sword.

LIZARD MAN SKILL?

As soon as you win your first Attack Round, turn to
386.

STAMINAS

263
You remembered not to put your sword-arm into
the stone circle and so your crippled hand is not too
much of a disability, Lose 1 SKILL point. You reluc-
tantly toss one of your own items into the circle and
wait to see what happens (turn to 233})-

264-267

Your constitution is weak and the poison runs
quickly through your system. Your arm starts to
throb and you break out in a sweat. Your vision
blurs and you have difficulty retaining conscious-
ness. Lose 5 STAMINA points. If your STAMINA
score is now g or below, turn to 124, If it is above 9,
turn to 364.

265
The Dwarfs attack the Orcs, spurred on by their
hatred. The fight is soon over, the Orcs being no
match for the embittered Dwarfs. Turn to 121,

266
The door remains firmly shut. There is nothing you
can do except walk back into the courtyard and try
to open the other doors leading off it (turn to 84).

267
You pull on the handle and lift up the trapdoor. Ina
small compartment you see a wooden box which
you lift out and place on the floor, The lid is covered
with candle-wax. If you wish to open the box, turn
to 354. If you would rather leave the hut, turn to 152.

263-270

= NE: hers ME em 268

Abs
~

The doors open into a corridor which runs to the left
and right of you. Prison cells with iron-barred doors
line the far wall of the corridor, Looking left, the
corridor comes to a dead end and so you turn right.
In the end cell by a wooden door you see a frail old
man sitting on a wooden bench, his leg chained to
the wall, His cell door is open but the wooden door
leading out of the corridor is firmly locked. Will you:

Free the old man? Turn to 166
Try to open the wooden door? Turn to 227

269
Half-way up the side of the hill to your left you see
the entrance to a cave. The rocks all around the
mouth of the cave are painted in bright colours, but
each one has a skull resting on top of it. If you wish
to climb up to the cave, turn to 59. If you would
rather walk on towards the volcano, turn to 303.

ys

) Fae.
fl

Uy

270
You decide to attack the Lizard Men, hoping to keep
one alive so that you can get some information out
of it. You slip quietly out of the cover of the trees to
the corner of the hut. You peep round to see the
Lizard Men still talking. Drawing your sword, you

A —_-_  -

271-274

charge round the corner to gain the initiative. Test
your Luck. lf you are Lucky, turn to 241. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 43.

a7
The Lizard King suddenly halts as he catches sight
of your monkey. He starts to shake, his fear of
monkeys quite evident. Test your Luck, If you are
Lucky, turn to 22. If you are Unlucky, turn to 123.

272
As the Hydra closes in on you, you hurl the spear at
one of its heads. Roll one die. If the number rolled is
1, 2,3 or 4, turn to 209, If the number rolled is 5 or 6,
turn to 344.

273
One of the keys fits the lock and you push the door
open (turn to 395)-

274
The tunnel continues straight ahead until you arrive
at the edge of a vertical downward shaft. A wooden
ladder is secured to the side of it, but you cannot see
down to the bottom. If you wish to climb down the
ladder, turn to 315. IF you would rather return to the
junction and walk past it to the other end of the
tunnel, turn to 28.

275-278

275

As soon as you touch the handle of one of the
knives, it changes in appearance. Instead of a dull
old knife, you find yourself holding a magnificent
sword with a flaming blade; it is one of the Lizard
King’s own fire swords. Add 2 sxiL1 points and 2
LUCK points. Cutting your new weapon through the
air, you make your way over to the door in the far
wall (turn to 322).

276
The Pygmies grunt and shout at you, but you do not
understand their language. They obviously want
something from you, but you are not sure shat.
What do you have that you wish to give them?

A hand-axe? Turn to 243
An iron bar? Turn to 327
Provisions? Turn to 126
None of these? Turn to 137

277
It is your sword-arm which is damaged, Lose 3
SKILL points. You reluctantly toss one of your own
items into the stone circle and wait to see what
happens (turn to 233).

278
The tunnel comes toa dead end quite suddenly and
you begin to worry that you may get last. Lose 1
LUCK point. You turn around and walk back to the
previous junction, lf you wish to continue straight
on, turn to 70. If you wish to turn night, turn to 172.

279-281

279

Once on the valley floor, you make your way over to
a copse of trees. As soon as you enter the copse,
familiar faces suddenly appear from behind the
trees. The Dwarfs, Elves and men that you rescued
from the mines are waiting here for your arrival.
Pleased to see them again, you tell them of what has
happened since you saw them last. You tell them
that the fort should be attacked immediately and
that you will deal with the Lizard King. You call
them all together and lead them out of the copse into
the valley. As you run towards the stone fort, you
see its wooden gates open. The Lizard King is
sending a battalion of guards and mutants out to
fight you. Your small army has soon locked swords
with the Lizard King's soldiers. Roll one die. Lf you
roll 1 or 2, turn to 185. If you roll 3 or 4, turn to 308. If
you roll 5 or 6, turn to 42.

280
After checking yourself carefully to make sure you
are finally rid of the parasites from the marsh, you
continue west across the muddy plain. Ahead you
see tivo hills and you decide ta walk towards the
gorge dividing them (turn to 362),

281
Gathering momentum, you cannot stop yourself
from rolling over and over into the gorge below.
You land heavily with a sickening thump. Lose 2
STAMINA points. You stand up, dust yourself off,
and decide to walk down the gorge (turn to 119}.

282-284

282
You open the sack carefully, in case it contains a
poisonous snake. But you are surprised and pleased
to see food inside: honeycomb, wheatcakes and
fruit. If you wish to eat the food, turn to 116. If you
would rather save it for later and set off again, turn
to 27.

283

The ordeal is tag much for you to bear, and you
signal the Shaman to stopit. You have failed the test
and the Shaman will not now divulge his secrets, He
points south-east, saying that the prison colony lies
in that direction and that you must face the Gon-
chong without his help. You turn around and walk
down the side of the volcano towards the Lizard
King’s stronghold (turn to 168).

284
You draw back from the wounded Lizard Man,
offering it the chance to surrender. It throws down
its sword and whip and slumps on to the ground,
panting heavily. You tie its arms together behind its
back with its own whip and drag it into the hut. You
demand information about the slave mines, and it
tells you that the entrance is not far away; about a
hundred metres beyond the huts. You tie the Lizard

285-288

Man to a post and leave the hut to find the mines
(turn to 147).

285

The Goblin wakes up with a start. He reaches up
and tries to grab you around the throat with his
scrawny hands. If you are wearing Sog’s helmet, he
will not succeed, but you will have to fight him (turn
to 322). [fyou are not wearing a helmet, the Goblin’s
sharp fingernails will dig into your throat. Lose 1
STAMINA point and fight the Goblin (turn to 322).

286

You have climbed about half-way up the vine when
you see a head pop out over the edge of the plat-
form. It belongs to an old man with grey hair who
glares down at you, looking very angry. ‘Go away,’
he cries, ‘or you'll be sorry.’ If you wish to continue
climbing up the vine, turn to 117. If you wish to take
his advice and slide down the vine fo continue
north-west, turn fo 375.

287
The Hobgoblin takes a long time to decide that you
have said the wrong password. Finally it sinks in
and he charges at you with his pike (turn to 328).

288
You start to search amongst the bushes for the
hidden raft and before long you find it. You drag it
into the river and climb aboard. The river is not deep
and you are able to push the raft up-river against the

289-292

light current quite easily with the long pole you
have (turn to 387).

289
You jump behind the hideous mutant and plunge
your sword into its back. Test your Luck. Lf you are
Lucky, turn to 144. If you are Unlucky, turn to 45.

| 290
The irritation becomes almost unbearable and you
cannot help but scratch at the lumps on your face.
Lose 1 STAMINA pointand 1 Luck point. If you wish
to rub your face with leaves from a nearby plant,
turn to 143. If you wish to chance eating the fungus,
turn to 110.

291
Lying dead face-down in the scrub is a seaman,
perhaps one of the crew ofa pirate ship killed by the
mutant Lizard Man, A monkey strains to escape
from a chain held by the dead man's hand. If you
wish to take the monkey with you, turn to 330. If
you would rather just let it go and carry on walking,
turn to 350.

292
The helmet is over one hundred years old and once
belonged to a fabled warrior named Sog, who also
practised sorcery. Wearing the helmet will cause
any adversary to fear you so much that you will be
able to win the first Attack Round of any battle. The
adversary will only raise sufficient courage to fight

293-295

back during the second Attack Round. Wearing
your new armour with pride, you walk carefully
down the hill into the gorge to continue west (turn
to 119).

293
By the time you have found all the prisoners and
released them, you will have lost 2 STAMINA points
in battle. If you are still alive, you are now the leader
of sixty-three dedicated followers, eager for revenge
{turn to 201).

294

The unknown power of the ring flashes a warning
through your mind, telling you that the old man is
an illusion projected by a fearsome Shape Changer.
You dash out of the cell and slam the door shut just
as the beast starts to metamorphose, Green spikes
burst through its clothing and its slavering jaws
open to reveal rows of razor-sharp teeth, The Shape
Changer is trapped in the prison cell and you can
now try to open the wooden door (turn to 227).

295
The Pygmy is insulted that you have refused his

gift. He stamps on the ground and throws down his

296-297

blowpipe, The other Pygmies quickly form a circle
around the two of you; honour can only be restored
by a duel to the death, You raise your sword to
defend yourself against the enraged Pygmy.

PYGMY SKILL 6
If you win, turn to 96.

STAMINA 5

296
The Lizard King suddenly halts as he catches sight
of your monkey. He starts to shake, his fear of
monkeys quite evident. He is so terrified that he can
hardly raise his sword to defend himself as you rush
forward, Only the mental urging of the Gonchong
forces the Lizard King into token resistance.

LIZARD KING SKILL6
If you win, turn to 153.

STAMINA 15

The instant you put the ring on your finger, you feel
very dizzy. You try to pull the ring off, but it will not
move. The ring is cursed with a Confusion Spell.
Lose 2 SKILL points. If you have not done so
already, you may:

Drink the liquid in the phial Turn to 311
Open the pouch Turn to 26
Try on the boots Turn to 94

[f you do not wish fo do any of these things, you
may continue your way west across the grassy plain
{turn fo 222).

298—300

298

It is pitch-black inside the bore-hole, which seems to
go on for miles, You decide that it is leading no-
where, There is not much room to turn round and
you have to tuck your head between your legs and
flip over. You scramble back down the bore-hole
and are relieved to reach the main tunnel. However,
when you flipped over in the bore-hole, something
fell out of your backpack. Deduct one item from
your Equipment List and lose 1 Luck point. You
clamber out of the bore-hole and turn right down
the tunnel (turn to 47).

299

Your men are encouraged by the death of the Cyc-
lops and push forward with new heart. As the
Lizard King’s troops start to fall back, you break
through their line and nan to the wooden gates of
the fort. You enter the inner courtyard and see two
sets of doors leading into the building. If you wish to
walk through the double doors to your left, turn to
268. If you would rather try the doors straight
ahead, turn to 84.

300

The Water Elemental crashes down on top of you,
smashing, the raft to pieces. Above the roar of the
water you can hear the gurgling laughter of the
Water Elemental. You gasp for air as you are forced
under the pounding water. You summon all your
strength and try to swim to the bank. Roll two dice.
If the total is the same or less than your SKILL score,

301-303
turn to 150. If the total is higher than your SKILL
score, turn to 234.

O14

Although the Shaman "has difficulty in speaking
your language, he seems to understand perfectly
everything you say to him. However, before he will
listen to your request for help, he insists that you
wear a feather in your hair. He offers you one from
his own hair, asking for something in exchange for
it. You have no choice but to comply with his
request (make the necessary deduction on your
Adventure Sheet). He smiles at last, and is ready to
listen to you (turn to 199).

302

Just as you are about to take the branch, a small dog
runs up to you and starts to bark. The Headhunters
whirl round and shriek excitedly on seeing you.
They wave their spears and clubs in the air and run
towards you. If you wish to fight them, turn to 3312.
[f you wish to ran back into the jungle, turn to 102.

303
You eventually reach the foot of the volcano, but
still see no sign of the Shaman. You look up and see
the gigantic black mountain reaching up towards the
sky and wonder when next it might erupt into life,
belching out clouds of ash and streams of red-hot
lava. You banish the thought from your mind and
decide which way to head, If you wish to climb
straight up the side of the volcano, turn to 178. If

304-306

you wish to walk around the foot of the volcano,
turn to 355.

304
Sharp teeth bury themselves in your neck as the

sleek Razorjaw frantically tres to kill you, Lose 2
STAMINA points. If you are still alive, you try to cut
the hideous creature from your neck with your
sword,

RAZORJAW SKILL 6 STAMINA 5

If you win, turn to 20.

395

Cutting down the trees with your sword is slow and
tiring work. You begin to worry that the noise of the
wood being cut might attract a predator, and your
fears are soon realized. Standing between two trees
behind you is an OGRE. He was sleeping and you
have woken him. He grunts and advances towards
you holding a large branch as a weapon.

OGRE SKILL § STAMINA 8

lf you win, turn to 9g.

06
When your hand ness into the circle, you feel a
pain as though it was being crushed under a cart-
wheel. You withdraw it, but it is all disfigured and
bent. Roll one die. If you roll 1-5, turn to 277. If you
roll 6, turn to 263.

307-399

397

In your desperate attempt to flee from the Giant
Crab you do not pay much attention to the sand you
are running across. Suddenly, your feet land in soft,
wet sand and you quickly start to sink in. You are
stuck in quicksand and as you struggle you sink in
faster. You scream in terroras the’sand reaches your
neck and the last sight you see is poor Mungo being
devoured by the Giant Crab.

308
With your sword raised high, you lunge at your
nearest foe. It is a LIZARD MAN.

“LIZARD MAN SKILL 8 STAMINA 7

If you win, turn to 341,

399
Both the Lizard Men are standing with their backs to
you as you run at them. You are able to slay one
before they realize they are being attacked, but you
must fig ght the other.

LIZARD MAN SKILL G
If you win, turn to 368.

STAMINAS

310-311

310
You fall against one of the roof-supporting beams. It
is rotten and breaks under your weight. The roof
caves in on top of you. You nearly asphyxiate under
the debris, and are almost buried alive. Lose 4
STAMINA points. If you survive the cave-in, you
manage to wriggle out of the sand and stones but
are forced to return to the last junction (turn to 378).

311
You have swallowed a Potion of Clumsiness. At the
beginning of any future combat, there is a possibil-
ity that you might drop your sword as you un-
sheathe it. Before you start the first Attack Round,
roll one die. If you roll 1, you will drop your sword
and automatically lose the first Attack Round, If you
have not done so already, you may:

Open the pouch Turn to 26
Try on the boots Turn to 94
Put the ring on your finger Turn to 297

lf you do not wish to carry out any of these actions,
you may continue your way west again across the
grassy plain (turn to 222).

312-314

312
The door opens into a small storeroom stacked with
barrels and sacks, If you wish to look inside one of
the barrels, turn to 231. If you would rather make
your way over to the next door in the far wall, turn

to 353.

313
Unfortunately for you, the Headhunter at the rear of
the group decides to investigate the log in which
you are hiding. He pokes his head into the end of
the log and calls out gleefully to the rest of the
hunting party. You are trapped and your head will
soon be added to their collection.

314
Are you holding a fire sword as your weapon? [f you
are, turn to 296. If you are going to fight the Lizard
King with an ordinary sword, turn to 271.

315-316
315

Stepping carefully down the ladder, you eventually
reach the bottom of the shaft, In the dim light you
see a new tunnel, from which you hear the faint
sound of singing. As you walk down the tunnel, the
singing grows louderand you also hear the sound of
stone being hammered, Suddenly you hear foot-
steps behind you. Will you:

Hide in the shadows? Turn to 78
Turn to face whoever is
approaching? Turn to 347

316
The malaria grips your bady and you become racked
with fever. Lose another 3 STAMINA points and 1
SKILL point. You lose track of time as you sink into a
delirious nightmare. When you finally recover from
the disease, you have no idea how long you have
been ill, You check your backpack and find that all
your Provisions are gone, perhaps eaten by ants or
maggots. You wash yourself in the river and climb
on board your raft to continue your quest {turn to

379).

317-318
317

The creature halts suddenly and looks over its
shoulder to stare at you in bewilderment. Its
wide mouth opens and a pink forked tongue
darts out and recoils just as quickly. Its big eyes
look full of sorrow, but then you realize that the
creature is a cunning MARSH HOPPER. Despite.
their pathetic appearance, Marsh Hoppers will
often lead unwary victims into the lairs of carnivor-
ous marsh beasts for the price of a few scraps of
meat, However, no creature knows how to cross
treacherous marshlands better than a Marsh Hop-
per. The Marsh Hopper beckons you with its head
to follow it across the marsh. lf you wish to follow it,
turn to 58. lf you wish to continue west alone, turn
tois8.

As you reach the ald man, he starts to metamorph-
ose before your eyes. Green spikes burst through
his clothing and his mouth becomes a pair of slaver-
ing jaws lined with razor-sharp teeth. He is nota
man buta SHAPE CHANGER, and you must fight
him.

SHAPE CHANGER SKILL 10 STAMINA 10

lf you win, turn to 372.

DL —— <<< === ==

319-322
; 319

The Lizard Man turns round to see who is behind it
and catches sight of you sprawled on the floor. It
puts down its pail and runs towards you, sword
in hand. You jump up and grab your sword to fight
it.

LIZARD MAN

[f you win, turn to 23,

SKILL7 STAMINA 7

320
You take careful aim and release the dagger. Unfor-
tunately, it flies just over the top of the orange. You
have failed the test and the Shaman will not now
divulge his secrets. He points south-east, saying
that the prison colony lies in that direction and
that you must face the Gonchong without his help.
You turn around and walk down the side of the
volcano towards the Lizard King’s stronghold (turn
to 168).

321
The tunnel comes to an end at a junction. If you
wish to turn left, turn to 19. If you wish to turn right,
turn to 39.

322
The Goblin is a tough fighter, using anything that
comes to hand to strike at you.

GOBLIN
If you win, turn to 367.

SKILL 5 STAMINA 6

323-324

323

The spear flies through the air but misses both of
you. You run on as fast as you can into the jungle to
escape the Headhunters. You crash through the
undergrowth, oblivious to the sharp branches and
thorns cutting into you. Finally, totally exhausted,
you stop and lean against a tree, panting heavily.
The man you have rescued is too exhausted to speak
but smiles at you in gratitude. When he at last gets
his breath back, he tells you that his name is Sama
and he escaped from the gold mines of the Lizard
King, hoping to build a raft and sail to the mainland.
You tell him of your mission and he advises you to
turn back, as the Lizard King is said to be invulner-
able. You tell Sama that you do not fear the Lizard
King and are determined to kill him. Sama replies
that although he is eternally in debt to you for
saving his life, he cannot face meeting the Lizard
King again. You tell him that he is under no obli-
gation and that you will fulfil your mission alone.
Before shaking your hand to say goodbye, Sama
hands you a bone charm which he was wearing
round his neck on a Jeather cord. ‘It will bring you
good fortune,’ he says calmly. Your Luck score will
now never fall below 7, Then he disappears into the
undergrowth and once again you are left alone to
continue your quest (turn to 113).

324
You tell the Shaman that you are not his enemy but

that you have come to him for help, He stares at you
coldly and says, ‘Why you no wear feather if you are
Lis

¢ ger? +e . f

vp iF

~

“ve

=

525-347
frend?’ If you wish to tell him that you have lost it,

turn to 225. If you wish to tell him that you did not
snow that it was important, turn to 208.

32

sround underfoot Fa rans rockier and the
Print trail you have been following disappears.
i the distance you hear a faint rumbling — could it
be the yawning of an awakening volcano? You
hurry on down the gorge, but are stopped in your
tracks by the sight of a huge reptile blocking your
path, You stare incredulously at the armoured beast
which appears some six metres in length. It ts a
GIANT LIZARD, and it sees you as a source of
food. You must fight it.

GIANT LIZARD SKILLS

If you win, turn to 196.

STAMINA Q

326 .

You point at the first shell. The Shaman lifts it but
there is nothing underneath it. You have failed the
test and he will not now divulge his secrets, He
points south-east, saying that the prison colony lies
in that direction and that you must face the Gon-
chong without his help. You turn around and walk
down the side of the volcano towards the Lizard
King’s stronghold (turn to 168).

327
One of the Pygmies steps forward and snatches the
iron bar away from you. He sniffs it and licks it, but
328-331

does not seem very pleased with it. He gestures for
you to give him something else. Will you give him;

A hand-axe? Turn to 206
Provisions? Turn to 126
Neither of these? Turn to 137

328
You quickly draw your sword and leap at the HOB-
GOBLIN.

HOBGOBLIN
If you win, turn to 338.

SKILL6 STAMINA 6

329
You slip quietly out of the cover of the trees to the
corer of the hut. You peep round to see the Lizard
Men still talking. Drawing your sword, you charge
round the corner to gain the initiative. Test your
Luck. lf you are Lucky, turn to 309. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 163.

330
The monkey happily sits on your shoulder and you
set off again in the company of your new friend

(turn to 3450).

331
Despite your great fighting ability, there are just too
many Headhunters for you to overcome. You man-
age to slay four of them before a spear is thrust into
your back to end your quest.

332-335

332

The powder is not only decorative, butalso magical.
It belonged to a wizard who was press-ganged into
slavery by the Lizard Men. However, before he
went into the mines, the wizard discarded the bottle
containing the powder, hoping that somebody
might find it. It was discovered by the Cave Woman
who did nothing with it except empty it into her clay
bow. The powder will protect you from any person
or being who tries to control your mind. Add 2 LucK
points. There is nothing else of interest in the cave,
so you decide to leave (turn to 17),

333
As you lift the breastplate off the nail, it scrapes
against the wall. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 164. If you are Unlucky, turn to 285.

334
You stretch out your arm and manage to graba bush

to stop yoursell rolling down the hill. Lying on the
ground you see a hollow under a rock, but it is too
dark to see inside. If you wish to reach into the
hollow, turn to 145. If you would rather walk care-
fully down into the gorge to continue west, turn to
119.

335
The Shaman hands you a dagger and tells you to

throw it at an orange which he places on the top ofa
rock, Roll two dice. If the total is the same or less
than your SKILL score, turn to 93. If the total is
higher than your SKIL score, turn to 320.
336-337

336
A large boulder lands heavily on your shoulder,
fortunately not that of your sword-arm. Lose 3
STAMINA points and 1 SKIL1. point. If vou are still
alive, you shield your head with your good arm and
flee down the gorge as fast as you can (turn to 253).

337
The beating of the drums grows louder as you

scramble through the undergrowth towards them.
You also hear chanting voices and deep humming.
You crawl forward as quietly as you can until you
reach the edge of a small clearing. There are several
bamboo huts in a circle around the edge of the
clearing. In the centre of the clearing you see twelve
Headhunters standing around a half-naked man
tied to a post. One of the Headhunters, who is
wearing a face-mask and head-dress, steps for-
ward, his arms raised in the air, The drums instantly
stop beating. Then a woman hands him a bone
knife — the Headhunters are about to gain a new
trophy. There are too many of them for you to fight
al once, and you feel helpless. There is only one
plan you can think of to distract the Headhunters,
but it is dangerous. If you wish to take a burning
branch from the fire in front of you and set some of
the huts on fire, turn to 171. If you would rather slip
back into the jungle and continue west, turn to 113.

338-340

338
There is a leather pouch hanging from the Hobgob-
lin’s belt. If you want to open it, turn to 374. [f you
would rather hurry across the ravine, turn to 139,

The Spit Toad leaps at you at the same instant that
you thrust your sword out in front of you. The
weight of the Spit Toad knocks you to the ground
but your sword has found its mark; the blade is
lodged up to the hilt in the Spit Toad’s throat. It
shudders in its death throes, while you craw! out
from under its massive belly, Gradually your vision
returns and you retrieve your sword. If you still
wish to drink at the pond, turn to 92. If you would
rather head off west again, turn to 222,

340
You draw your swords and run down on to the
beach hoping to catch the Pirates off guard. You
manage to cut two down before they are able to
draw their cutlasses and then you each fight two of
the remaining four at the same time.

SKILL STAMINA
First PIRATE 7 7
Second PIRATE 8 6

Both Pirates will make a separate attack on you in
each Attack Round, but you must choose which of
the two you will fight, Attack your chosen Pirate as
in a normal battle. Against the other you will throw
for your Attack Strength in the normal way, but

LE

341-343

you will not wound him if your Attack Strength is
greater; you must just count this as though you
have defended yourself against his blow. Of course,
if his Attack Strength is greater, he will wound
vou, Ifyou defeat them both, turn to 61.

341
You look round to see how the battle is going. Many
of your fellow fighters are slain and the rest are in
retreat. If you have the Horn of Valhalla, turn to 109,
If vou do not have this horn, turn to 254.

342
The pig is running very swiftly and you have to
throw fast. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to
115. If you are Unlucky, turn to 219.

343
The girl starts to cry and you are suddenly filled

with remorse for having killed her Tiger. You think
about consoling her, but she runs away up the
hill as fast as a gazelle. Lose 2 Luck points. You
sheathe your sword and descend into the valley to
reconnoitre with the freed slaves (turn to 279}.

344-34"

344
A perfect throw! The spear flies up into the open jaw
of one of the Hydra’s heads and reappears at the
back. The head slumps forward completely lifeless,
but the Hydra still attacks you with its surviving

head,
HYDRA
if you win, turn to 389.

SKILL 9

345

You manage to craw] out backwards from under-
neath the rubble. Lying amidst all the rocks and
stones is a small wooden box. You prise the lock

open with your sword, and shout for joy when y
see what is lying inside. Itis a hunting horn, but &
runes carved on it tell you itis no ordinary hom
the legendary Horn of Valhalla. When blown, it w
fill its player and all his friends sho can dear jt with
strength and courage, Add 2 Luck points. You sling
the horn round your neck and walk back to the last
junction. If you wish to turn left, turn to 172. If you
wish to head straight on, turn to 278, :

346
The strength with which the Lizard King attacks
you is overpowering. Blow after blow of his fire
sword crashes down on you and it is all you can do
to defend yourself. Your own sword is useless,
unable to make even a scratch on the Lizard King.
You are forced to back off and as you tire, the Lizard
King finds a gap in your defence. His fire sword cuts

STAMINAG

347-349

a terrible gash into your ann, forcing you to drop
your sword, He picks you up and hurls you over the
battlements to the delight of his troops below. The
day is lost and the Lizard King will remain ruler of
Fire Island for ever.

Walking down the tunnel towards you is a
LIZARD MAN carrying a pail. It looks surprised to
see you and drops its pail to the ground. With a
guttural cry it runs forward to attack you with its
scimitar.

LIZARD MAN

& you win, turn to 23.

as

nile you are asleep, a Vampire Bat flutters down
10 feast on your blood. You do not fee) its fangs sink
into your ankle and it is only when you awake that
you see the punctures in your skin. Lose 2 STAMINA
points. You shudder at the sight of the wound and
pack your belongings quickly before starting off
again (turn to 212),

SKILL? STAMINA 7

349
As you climb on to the platform, the old man throws
down his pole and climbs higher up into the tree. He
is very agile and you will not catch up with him
carrying your sword and backpack. You decide to
leave him alone and climb back down the vine to
continue north-west (turn to 375).
ike

iu ¥
=i

4

.
:
'

_

‘
?

i?

359-351

350

Over the scrubland and one more hill, and you find
yourself overlooking a green valley. A stone fortress
lies in the middle of the valley, its striped flag
fluttering in the breeze. At last you have found the
prison colony, You are about to walk down into the
valley when you hear a grow! behind you. Itisa
huge SABRE-TOOTHED TIGER held ona rope by
a blonde girl with wild feline eyes. She stares at you
inquisitively as the Tiger strains on its leash, Will
you:

Try to communicate with her? Turn to 106

Attack the Tiger with your sword? Turn to 190

Run away into the valley? Turn to 242
351

The liquid hits your face and your eyes Start to sting.
You have been temporarily blinded by the sticky
acid of a SPIT TOAD. You realize what is happen-
ing and draw your sword, You know the Spit Toad
will try to leap on you and kill you with its spiked
teeth. You cut your sword blindly through the air
and step back from the pond, rubbing your eyes
with your free hand. Although you cannot see it,
the Spit Toad suddenly leaps at you, Test your Luck.
If you are Lucky, turn to 339. If you are Unlucky,
turn to 73-

352-354

2

On the side of the volcano, you see a flash of light
which could be sunlight reflected on a mirror or
polished blade, Could it be the Shaman or one of the
Lizard King’s patrols? You intend to find out and
hurry on (turn to 399).

3
The door is not locked and opens into a room which
is filled with benches and stools. Glass beakers,
flasks and tumblers sit on top of the benches, and
shelves on the wall are lined with jars containing
curious compounds. You are standing in the Lizard
King’s laboratory, Suddenly you hear footsteps
coming from the other side of a door in the far wall.
If you wish to draw your sword to meet whoever is
about to enter the laboratory, turn to 360. If you
would rather hide under one of the benches, turn to

77-

354
The lid lifts up easily and inside you find a corked

earthenware jug and a note which reads: ‘Many
years ago | came to Fire Island for peace and soli-
tude. But since the Lizard Men have dwelt here,

355-357

such an existence is no longer possible, | have now
returned to the mainland. Many of the plants and
bushes here are poisonous; a scratch can kill you.
Drink my potion from this jug and you will come to
no harm. I wish you well for whatever reason vou
are here. Farewell, Baskin.’ If you wish to drink the
liquid in the jug, turn to 238. If you would rather
leave the hut immediately, turn to 152.

355
As you walk along, you become aware of a strong

smell of sulphur in the air, You svon arrive at the
edge of a giant pool of thick yellow mud with large
gas bubbles breaking through its surface and mak-
ing unpleasant plopping sounds. The poo! must be
quite hot judging by the heat radiating from it.
Lying in a strange nest of stones and sticks, you see
two large eggs that look like melons. Their shells are
yellow and wrinkled, and you have no idea what
creature might have laid them by the side of the
sulphur pool to incubate. [f you wish to take a closer
look at the eggs, turn to 48. If you would rather
climb up the volcano, turn to 178,

356
The door flies open (turn to 395).

357
The snake bite is fatal. There is nathing you can do
to stop the effects of the poison, and there is nobody
around to help you. Your adventure ends on a
barren hill on Fire Island.

358-360

358
You point at the middle shell. The Shaman lifts it
and you are relieved to see the bead lying under-
neath it. You have passed the test. If you have now
passed three tests, turn to 214. If not, which will you
try next?

Fear Turn to 75

Pain Turn to 151

Revulsion Turn to 183

Strength Turn to 220

Dexterity Turn to 335
359

You do not advance more than two steps before the
Pygmies raise their blowpipes to their mouths to fire
six darts at you. Roll one die to determine the
number of darts that stick in your flesh and deduct 1
STAMINA point foreach, If you are still alive, turn to

373:

360
The door flies open and a Dwarf shackled by his
arms and legs is pushed into the laboratory by a
grotesque two-headed LIZARD MAN, The mutant
sees you and snarls. He hurls the poor Dwarf to one
side and strides forward to attack you with his
scimitar.

TWO-HEADED
LIZARD MAN SKILL STAMINAQG

If you win, turn to 173.
361-364

361
You arrive back at the bore-hole where the unfor-
tunate Dwarf still lies beside his hand-cart. If you
now wish to climb into the bore-hole, turn to 298. If
you would rather walk past it, turn to 47.

362

The ground rises and you are at last away from the
difficult terrain — the jungle and marsh are behind
you, Grass and flowers make the island appear lush
and beautiful, but you know you cannot afford to
relax. It is not long before you reach the gorge and
see that it rans between several hills in a westerly
direction. If you wish to walk down the gorge, turn
too. If you would rather climb the hill to your right,
turn to 194.

363
You walk down to the river and jump on your raft.
Progress against the current is slow as the river
narrows and the water runs faster, If you still wish
to journey by raft, turn to 228. If you would rather
walk overland, turn to 376.

364
Although you are dangerously weak from the
effects of the poison, you survive. You rest until
finally you feel strong enough to continue your
quest. lf you now wish to drive the Rattlesnake out
of its hole with your sword, turn to 5. If you would
rather walk carefully down into the gorge to head
west, turn to 119,

eee eee

365-367

3
There is no other evidence of the Shaman‘s where-
abouts and so you follow your hunch and walk on
towards the volcano (turn to 269).

366

Kneeling down beside the crushed body of Mungo,
you gently lift his head in your arms. His eyes open
a little and he manages half a smile despite his
agony. In a whisper he says, ‘Well, old friend, it's
the end of the road for me. A lot of use I’ve been,
Make sure you get the Lizard King for me, won't
you?’ Then his eyes close and he slumps down
dead. You bury him on the beach near the cliff,
marking the grave with his sword skewered into the
sand. More determined than ever, you set off on
your quest and walk to the stone hut (turn to 198).

367
You take the breastplate and just manage to squeeze
into it. Add 1 SKILL point. You leave the Goblin‘s
room and ‘walk to the spiral staircase (turn to 8).
368
You quickly search the bodies of the Lizard Men. In
one of their pockets you find three iron keys which
you put in your own pocket. Not wasting any mare
time, you run off to find the slave mines (turn to
147).

369

The boulder is too heavy for you to lift and you are
forced to give up trying. You have failed the test and
the Shaman will not now divulge his secrets. He
points south-east, saying that the prison colony lies
in that direction and that you must face the Gon-
chong without his help. You turn around and walk
down the side of the volcano towards the Lizard
King’s stronghold (turn to 168).

: 370
You swing your sword and bring it down heavil yon
to the rock. To your dismay, the blade snaps in two,
leaving you with a much-shortened sword. Lose 2
SKILL points, If you have not already done so, you
may touch the crystal (turn to 232). Alternatively,
you may leave the clearing and continue west
through the undergrowth (turn to 72).

374-373

371
You decide to put a Grannit in the pouch, hoping

that it might be a useful decoy for you later. You
poke around the wall and prise one away and drop
itinto the pouch. Walking on down the tunnel, you
finally arrive at a dead end. You have no option but
to turn around and walk back to the junction (turn to
57).

372
You leave the cell and its gruesome inmate and try
to open the wooden door (turn to 227),

373
The darts are tipped with a tranquillizing com-

pound. You fall unconscious to the ground, and
when you wake up again the Pygmies are nowhere
to be seen. Your sword is still in your hand, but your
backpack is empty. You have lost all your posses-
sions and Provisions. Lose 2 Luck points. You curse
the Pygmies and set off west again (turn to 7). .

374-375

374
Inside the pouch you find a tiny clay doll. It was

made by a witch doctor and is cursed. Lose 2 Luck
points. You throw the doll down the ravine and
cross the archway (turn to 139).

375
Hacking your way through plants and shrubs, you

become aware of a buzzing sound above you.
Hovering over you is the colourful but threatening
shape of a GIANT DRAGONELY, its iridescent
wings beating fast, yet keeping the Dragonfly per-
tectly still, Suddenly it plunges down to attack you.

GIANT
DRAGONFLY SKILL 8

If you win, turn to 221,

STAMINA 4

SS SSS SS ee

376-378

You steer the raft over to the right-hand bank and
jump off, The terrain all around is tree-covered
hillside with plenty of rocks and bushes to make
walking quite arduous. You look around and decide
to set off towards the volcano in the north-west as it
might be an ideal place for the Shaman to hide. After
trudging your way through the undergrowth, you
suddenly notice a strange-looking bush. It has wide
leaves with crimson tips and fruit like giant rasp-
berries hanging from its branches. If you wish to eat
some of the fruit, turn to 100. If you would rather
keep walking, turn to 399.

377
The paste stings mildly, but has no beneficial or
detrimental effect. There is none left to try eating, so
you take your sword and start to hack your way
west again (turn to 113).

| 378
At the junction you may either continue straight on

(turn to 68) or turn left (turn to 4).

—<—<_ s. °° &4 4

379-380

379
For no apparent reason, the water becomes very

turbulent. A whirlpool forms in front of the raft and
you have to cling on to stop yourself from being
flung off. Suddenly a great wall of water rises out of
the whirlpool, forming itself into a vague humanoid
shape. You are about to be engulfed by a
WATER ELEMENTAL. If you possess a Pouch of
Unlimited Contents, turn to 181. If you do not have
this item, turn to 300.

380
You wait about fifteen minutes before chancing
leaving the safety of the log. Fortunately, the
Headhunters are nowhere to be seen. You waste no
time in drawing your sword to cut a new path west
{turn to 113).

381-382

381

You manage to cling on to the tree with one hand
and knock the Tarantula off the trunk with your
other hand. You continue your climb and cut off a
bunch of bananas. Back on the ground you devour
them quickly and walk back to your shelter, Add 2
STAMINA points. You crawl into your shelter to
settle down for the night, wondering what events
the next day will bring. Looking up, you see wispy
clouds in shades of pink and purple gradually
deepen in colour as the night sky takes over from
the day. Despite the deafening noise of thousands
of insects enjoying the cool night air, you are soon
fast asleep, Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to
388. If you are Unlucky, turn to 348.

382
Ona large boulder to your right you see some words
which seem to have been carved out of the stone. If
you want to walk up to the boulder and read the
words, turn to 35. If you would rather continue your
trek down the gorge, turn to 119,

383

The tunnel is now very narrow and the beams
supporting the roof are cracked and dislodged in
places. You feel very claustrophobic in the dim
light, but you press on, often being showered with
dust and small stones. You do not see a rock on the
floor and stumble over it. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 140, If you are Unlucky, turn to 310.

Before the Gonchong can withdraw its probascis
from the Lizard King, you slice through it with your
sword. Both the Lizard King and the Gonchong are
slain (turn to 400).

385-387

385
As you reach out to break off one of the fungi, its
clam-like top opens up and releases a jet of spores
into your face, They irritate your skin and lumps
appear on your face. Your eyes start to close as the
irntation increases. Will you:

ignore itand hopeit will gaaway? Turn ta 290

Rub your face with leaves from a
nearby plant?

Eat the fungus?

Turn to 143
Turn to 110

386
The Dwarfs run to help you and the Lizard Man is
soon overpowered. You line up the Dwarfs again
and set off along the tunnel (turn to 114).

387

You have not gone far before you realize that you
are not safe even aboard your raft. You see a pair of
eyes protruding from the water ahead of you, and
suddenly a huge jaw lined with sharp teeth gapes
open, With great force, the CROCODILE slams
into your raft, almost knocking you off it. The
Crocodile thrashes around in the water, its jaws
opening and snapping shut in its desperation to bite
you. If you have an iron bar, turn to g. If you do not
have an iron bar, turn to 204.

as

388-389

The night passes without incident and you wake
early to continue your quest (turn to 242).

9
As the Hydra sinks down into the black mire, the
Marsh Hopper takes flight, his treachery revealed.
He runs off in great loping strides and is soon out of
sight. There is nothing else to do except to trudge
your way west. However, you have gone not more
than a hundred metres when you notice turbulence
in the water to your right. That infernal Marsh
Hopper has led you into a section of the marsh
seething with carnivorous life. Swimming quickly
towards you isa GIANT WATER-SNAKE and you
must fight for your life in the marshlands yet again.

GIANT WATER-
SNAKE SKILL6

During each Attack Round you must reduce your
Attack Strength by 2 because of your tiredness and
lack of mobility compared with the Snake. If vou
win, turn to 49.

STAMINA 5
399-392

On the right bank of the river you see a man dressed
in tattered clothing. He is waving his arms around
frantically and calling out to you. He looks as if he
could be an escaped prisoner. If you wish to steer
your raft over to the man, turn to 87. If you would
rather keep pushing up-river, turn to 14,

391
The undergrowth between the trees is dense; plants
with long or broad leaves, some with spiny tips,
vines, creepers, fungi, roots and flowers of all sizes,
shapes and colours fighting for light and space in
the humid jungle thicket. You have to use your
sword to cut your way through it, and it is a long
and slow business. If you wish to sit down and rest
at the base of a great tree, turn to 53. If you would
rather continue hacking your way west, turn to 81,
392

392

A thought suddenly crosses your mind that perhaps
the boots you are wearing might be enchanted. You
put your foot up against the wall and try to walk up
it. Sure enough, it works. You are wearing a magical
pair of Boots of Climbing. Add 1 Luck point. You
climb down the wall and somewhat apprehensively
step over to the edge of the shaft. It feels very
strange to be walking vertically down the wall like a
fly. The shaft is deep but you eventually reach the
bottom. It is almost totally dark. You feel your way
along the wall but cannot find another tunnel lead-
ing off the abandoned shaft. You are about to step
back up the side of the shaft when your foot comes
into contact with something. You bend down and
feel the blade of a sword, You step back up to the
tunnel above to examine your discovery. In the
yellow light of the torches you admire the superbly
crafted sword you are holding. Add 2 sx1L1 points.
You throw your old sword down the shaft and walk
back to the junction (turn to 135).

on —-

393-394

393
The Dwarf’s shackles are soon undone by the pick-

lock’s wire. Add 1 LUCK point. You tell him that you
are leading the attack on the prison colony and ask
where the Lizard King is hiding. He tells you that
the Lizard King is on the fort's front battlement,
urging on his troops. You tell the Dwarf to take the
mutant’s scimitar and help his fellow men outside.
You wish him good luck and run through the open
doorway ahead (turn to 180).

4
Before the Slime Sucker is close enough to attack
you, you throw the spear at it. Roll one die. If the
number rolled is 1 or 2, turn to 192, If the number
rolled is 3, 4, 5 or 6, turn to 202.

395-396

395
You find yourself standing in a dingy torture cham-
ber. It is full of terrible instruments of pain; racks,
thumbscrews, iron maidens and whips, You also
see some rusty knives lying on a table in the corner
of the chamber, Will you:

Pick up a whip? Turn to 136
Pick up a rusty knife? Turn to 275
Ignore everything and head for

the door in the far wall? Turn to 312

396
The Spit Toad‘s teeth sink painfully into your
sword-arm. Lose 2 STAMINA points and 2 SKILL
points, You grab your sword with your other hand
and manage to force open the Spit Toad’s mouth
with it. You roll out from under its massive belly and
Stand up to lunge at it blindly,

SPIT TOAD

During each Attack Round you must reduce your
Attack Strength by 3 because of your blindness, If
you win, turn to 134.

SKILL 5 STAMINA 6

397
The Shaman tells you that you must pass three

different tests from a choice of six and asks you
which you wish ta take first, Which will you try?

Luck Turn to 2
Fear Turn to 75
Pain Turn to 151
Revulsion Turn to 183
Strength Turn to 220
Dexterity Turn to 335

You prise open the chest and are surprised at its
contents — iron bars! The captain must have tricked
his crew into believing they were burying treasure
and the real treasure is probably still on board his
ship, not that it will do him much good now, You
decide to put one of the iron bars in your backpack
and walk over to the goat-track to climb the cliff
(Eurn tO 200).

You notice a bulging sack hanging from the branch
of a tree on the end of a piece of rope. If you wish to
cut the sack down, turn to 282. If you would rather
keep walking, turn to 27.

400

400
‘You throw the vile Gonchong over the wall and
stand on the battlements in full view of yourmen. A
‘cheer rises from below and you watch with satisfac-
tion as they easily defeat the Lizard King’s demoral-
ized troops. The batlle is over and victory is yours.
‘The Elves, Dwarfs and men can now return to th
homes on the mainland and the slave mines of Fire
Island will close for ever. Mungo would have been
proud of you.

FIGHTING FANTASY
‘The Introductory Role-pls

Steve jacks

“The wos of Fighting Fantay, peopled by Oss dragon,
‘Gamebooks, where the reader i the hero, dicing with
freedom

Game

Inv this clay wtien handbock thete ae Rats o4

WHAT Is DUNGEONS AND DRAGONS?

Jolin Butterfield, David Honigmann
snd Philip Parker

Here ip «fascinating puide to the geste of all ro
Biyng games whuch rude dated. begun
tactics and which wil prove tvalesble for payers and
Deginner alike Take the plonge ino advestune and see
Fantasy Questbooks — 32 pages, ful colour

‘THE PATH OF PERIL
David Fickling ond Perry Hinton
iustrated by Rachel Bcket

‘The famous explorer Edmund Mallory has been fully
murdered and the legendary Bloodstone, which Ae 3.
Gulred “under mysterious circumstances on his ast.
{aves is missing All hat emaine ae he scatlezed fag
‘ents ofthe explorer’ dlary, his personal notebook and
Tost of the contents of hie cansoeked study An alin,
Usolvable meter. Yeti eseme thatthe explorer ie
Self expected fo mecta Violent end and prepared the Way
for YOU to track down hie murderer and recover the
Bloodstone, Unfortunately, the clues he laid have been
Scattored th the tuzmoll of his terible death All the
Information you need is here, ingeniously hidden in
‘both text and pictoes, and each strand ofthe mystery
‘unravls to reveal the next. Are YOU sharp enough (@
cai?

STARFLIGHT ZERO
David Fickling end Perry Hinton
lusrated by Poter Andee Jones

One by one the Free Planets have fle to the eentess
advance of the Dark Ships nil only Caldorsn ard
Palomar remain, Then ls. despaiing message comes
feom Palomar and Coldoren ison He ov seems that
the invaders, armed swith the potwer of the iavinable
Blsck Light, wil son congue the last utpost of resist
Inst desperste mission by 9 small wroup of star fighters to
slrkeathe sours ofthe Black Light An YOU ae part
ofthe miss
THE CRETAN CHRONICLES
Jolin Butterfield, Dasiz
land Phisp Porter

1. Bloodfeud of Altos

ivce-book epic brings an exciting os
{o Adventure Gamebooks. YOU a=
svenge the death of Theseus, your =
body les tapped is the Isbyrints of Kine Sse The
fomtbat system has been extended to snorvorsse

fps of Ronour and share

MAELSTROM
Alexarier Scott

Complete with bapinners' and advances roles seieree'=
oles, saps and chars, Mason ies Sl le piayoog
game for several players. YOU choose the characters
YOU choose the missions nd YOU nave the sdveniuree
{nthe tabslentoridof Bop in the sateenth ceotan

