“FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS

| Over 8 million copies sold worldwide!
=

“ LIVINGSTONE -
AVERNS

ITM MOUS 943 jo SUTDAPD ANOLSONIATTI NVI

co

=

INIA an e:

£1.95 | | oo a

AUST. 64.96 3°
(rocummended) me
ject, = GST) ! REE Le
CAN, $2.35 ¥ PROTVSL(" 47830. ' y

pe REArs, CAYET ODN

WOHTMARe | SORIA
EB
a

THE FIGHTING
FANTASY WORL

PUFFIN BOOKS

CAVERNS OF THE SNOW WITCH

Deep within the Crystal Caves of the lcefinger Mountains, the
dreaded Snow Witch of Allansia is using her dark powers to
bring on a new ice age and thereby hold the world under her
dominion. You know nothing of this until a brave trapper dies
in your arms, having fallen victim to the terrible creature you
are hunting, and lays the burden of his mission on your
shoulders, But time is running out and YOU must take up the
challenge without delay.

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you need to embark on
this thrilling adventure of sword and sorcery, complete with its
elaborate combat system and a score sheet to record your gains
and losses.

Many dangers lie ahead and your success is by no means
certain, Powerful adversaries are ranged against you and often
your only choice is to kill or be killed,

A shortened version of Caverns of the Snow Witch was first
published in WARLOCK magazine. This new and expanded
adventure takes you beyond the Crystal Caves and into the
most terrifying adventure of them all!

lan Livingstone’s
Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks

THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP MOUNTAIN
THE CITADEL OF CHAOS

THE FOREST OF DOOM
STARSHIP TRAVELLER

CITY OF THIEVES

DEATHTRAP DUNGEON
ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING
SCORPION SWAMP

CAVERNS OF THE SNOW WITCH
HOUSE OF HELL

TALISMAN OF DEATH

SPACE ASSASSIN

FREEWAY FIGHTER

TEMPLE OF TERROR

THE RINGS OF KETHER

SEAS OF BLOOD

APPOINTMENT WITH F.E.A.R.
REBEL PLANET

DEMONS OF THE DEEP

SWORD OF THE SAMURAI

— THE SNOW WITCH

The Seven Serpents

Se SI bY pH

-_ = = Fe et tl
DAYS SO

_- =
bo

NH oe
“so”

> w he

The Crown of Kings Illustrated by
FIGHTING FANTASY ~ The Introductory Role-playing Game Gary Ward and Edward Crosby
OUT OF THE PIT - Fighting Fantasy Monsters

Puffin Books

tna mina te a,

For Dave, John, Maurice, Rob, Skye
and Steve ofthe Lads’ Night Inn
CONTENTS

FIGHTING MONSTERS

9
EQUIPMENT AND POTIONS
16
HINTS ON PLAY
7
ADVENTURE SHEET
8
BACKGROUND

CAVERNS OF THE SNOW WITCH
FIGHTING MONSTERS

Before embarking on your adventure, you must
first determine your own strengths and weak-
nesses. You have in your possession a sword and
a backpack containing provisions (food and drink)
for the trip. You have been preparing for your quest
by training yourself in swordplay and exercising
vigorously to build up your stamina.

To see how effective your preparations have been,
you must use the dice to determine your initial
SKILL and STAMINA scores. On pages 18-19 there is
an Adventure Sheet which you may use to record the
details of an adventure. On it you will find boxes for
recording your SKILL and STAMINA scores.

You are advised to either record your scores on the
Adventure Sheet in pencil, or make photocopies of
the page to use in future adventures.

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter this
total in the skit box on the Adventure Sheet.

Roll both dice. Add 12 to the number rolled and
enter this total in the STAMINA box.

There is also a Luck box. Roll one die, add 6 to this
number and enter this total in the LUCK box.

For reasons that will be explained below, SKILL,
STAMINA and LUCK scores change constantly dur-
ing an adventure, You must keep an accurate record
of these scores and for this reason you are advised
either to write small in the boxes or to keep an eraser
handy. But never rub out your Initial scores.
Although you may be awarded additional sKrLt,
STAMINA and LUCK points, these totals may never
exceed your nitial scores except on very rare occa=
sions, when you will be instructed on a particular

Your SKILL score reflects your swordsmanship and
general fighting expertise; the higher the better.
Your STAMINA score reflects your general constitu-
tion, your will to survive, your determination and
overall fitness; the higher your STAMINA score, the
longer you will be able to survive. Your LUCK score
indicates how naturally lucky a person you are.
Luck — and magic - are facts of life in the fantasy
kingdom you are about to explore.

Battles

You will often come across pages in the book which
instruct you to fight a creature of some sort. An
option to flee may be given, but if not — or if you
choose to attack the creature anyway — you must
resolve the battle as described below.

First record the creature’s SKILL and STAMINA
scores in the first vacant Monster Encounter Box on
your Adventure Sheet. The scores for each creature

10

are given in the book each time you have an encoun-
ter.

The sequence of combat is then:

1, Roll both dice once for the creature. Add its SKILL

score. This total is the creature's Attack Strength.

2. Roll both dice once for yourself. Add the number

rolled to your current SKILL score. This total is
your Attack Strength.

3. If your Attack Strength is higher than that of the

creature, you have wounded it. Proceed to step
4. if the creature‘s Attack Strength is higher than
yours, it has wounded you. Proceed to step 5. If
both Attack Strength totals are the same, you
have avoided each other's blows — start the next
Attack Round from step 1 above.

4. You have wounded the creature, so subtract 2

points from its STAMINA score. You may use

your LUCK here to do additional damage (see
over).

The creature has wounded you, so subtract 2

points from your own STAMINA score. Again you

may use LUCK at this stage (see over).

6, Make the appropriate adjustments to either the
creature's or your own STAMINA scores (and
your LUCK score if you used LUCK — see over).

. Begin the next Attack Round by returning to
your current SKILL score and repeating steps
1-6. This sequence continues until the STAMINA
score of either you or the creature you are
fighting has been reduced to zero (death).

|

“I

ii
Escaping

On some pages you may be given the option of
running away from a battle should things be going
badly for you. However, if you do run away, the
creature automatically gets in one wound on you
(subtract 2 STAMINA points) as you flee. Such is the
price of cowardice. Note that you may use LUCK on
this wound in the normal way (see below). You may
only Escape if that option is specifically given to you
on the page.

Fighting More Than One Creature

If you come across more than one creature in a
particular encounter, the instructions on that page
will tell you how to handle the battle. Sometimes
you will treat them as a single monster; sometimes
you will fight each one in turn,

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either in
battles or when you come across situations in which
you could either be lucky or unlucky (details of
these are given on the pages themselves), you may
call on your Luck tomake the outcome more favour-
able. But beware! Using Luck is a risky business,
and if you are unlucky, the results could be dis-
astrous.

The procedure for using your LuckKis as follows: roll
two dice. If the number rolled is equal to or less than

12

your current LUCK score, you have been lucky and
the result will go in your favour. If the number
rolled is higher than your current Luck score, you
have been unlucky and you will be penalized.

This procedure is known as Testing your Luck. Each
time you Test your Luck, you must subtract one point
from your current LUCK score. Thus you will soon
realize that the more you rely on your Luck, the
more risky this will become.

Using Luck in Battles

On certain pages of the book you will be told to Test
your Luck and will be told the consequences of your
being lucky or unlucky. However, in battles, you
always have the option of using your Lucx either to
inflict a more serious wound ona creature you have
just wounded, or to minimize the effects of a wound
the creature has just inflicted on you.

if you have just wounded the creature, you may Test
your Luck as described above. If you are Lucky, you
have inflicted a severe wound and may subtract an
extra 2 points from the creature's STAMINA score,
However, if you are Unlucky, the wound was a
mere graze and you must restore 1 point to the
creature’s STAMINA (i.e. instead of scoring the nor-
mal 2 points of damage, you have now scored only
i).

if the creature has just wounded you, you may Test
your Luck to try to minimize the wound. If you are
Lucky, you have managed to avoid the full damage

13

of the blow. Restore 1 point of STAMINA (i.e. instead
of doing 2 points of damage it has done only 1). If
you are Unlucky, you have taken a more serious
blow. Subtract 1 extra STAMINA point.

Remember that you must subtract 1 point from your
LUCK score every time you Test your Luck.

Restoring Skill, Stamina and Luck

Skill

Your skiL. score will not change much during your
adventure. Occasionally, a page may give instruc-
tions to increase or decrease your SKILL score. A
Magic Weapon may increase your SKILL, but re-
member that only one weapon can be used ata time!
You cannot claim 2 skiLL bonuses for carrying two
Magic Swords. Your SKILL score can never exceed
its Initial value. Drinking the Potion of Skill (see
later) will restore your SKILL to its Initial level at any
time.

Stamina and Pravisions

Your STAMINA score will change a lot during your
adventure as you fight monsters and undertake
arduous tasks. As you near your goal, your STAMI-
sa level may be dangerously low and battles may be
particularly risky, so be careful!

Your backpack contains enough Provisions for ten
meals. You may rest and eat at any time except

14

when engaged in a Battle. Eating a meal restores 4
STAMINA points, When you eat a meal, add 4 points
to your STAMINA Score and deduct 1 point from
your Provisions. A separate Provisions Remaining
box is provided on the Adventure Sheet for recording
details of Provisions. Remember that you have a
long way to go, $o use your Provisions wisely!

Remember also that your STAMINA score May never
exceed its Initial value. Drinking the Potion of

Strength (see later) will restore your STAMINA to its
Initial level at any time.

Luck

Additions to your Luck score are awarded through
the adventure when you have been particularly
lucky. Details are given on the pages of this book.
Remember that, as with SKILL and STAMINA, your
LUCK score may never exceed its /nitial value. Drink-
ing the Potion of Fortune (see later) will restore your
LUCK toits Inifial level at any time, and increase your
Initial LUCK by 1 point.

15

EQUIPMENT AND POTIONS

You will start your adventure with a bare minimum
of equipment, but you may find or buy other items
during your travels. You are armed with a sword
and are dressed in leather armour. You have a
backpack to hold your Provisions and any treasures
you may come across,

In addition, you may take one bottle of a magic
potion which will aid you on your quest. You may
choose to take a bottle of any of the following:

A Potion of Skill — restores skIL1 points

A Potion of Strength — restores sTAMINA points
A Potion of Fortune — restores LUcK points and
adds 1 to Initial LUCK

These potions may be taken at any time during your
adventure (except when engaged in a Battle). Tak-
ing a measure of potion will restore SKILL, STAMINA
or LUCK scores to their Initial level (and the Potion of
Fortune will add 1 point to your Initial LucK score
before Luck is restored).

Each bottle of potion contains enough for one mea-
sure, i.e, the characteristic may be restored once
during an adventure, Make a note on your Adven-
ture Sheet when you have used up a potion,

Remember also that you may only choose one of the
three potions to take on your trip, so choose wisely!

76

HINTS ON PLAY

Your journey will be perilous and you are likely to
fail on your first attempt. Make notes and draw a
map as you explore — this map will be invaluable in
future adventures and enable you to progress rapid-
ly through to unexplored sections.

Not all areas contain treasure; many merely contain
traps and creatures which you will no doubt fall foul
of. You may make wrong turnings during your
quest and while you may indeed progress through
to your ultimate destination, it is by no means
certain that you will find what you are searching for.

It will be realized that entries make no sense if read
in numerical order, It is essential that you read only
the entries you are instructed to read. Reading other
entries will only cause confusion and may lessen the
excitement during play.

The one true way involves a minimum of risk and
any player, no matter how weak on initial dice rolls,
should be able to get through fairly easily.

May the luck of the gods go with you on the adven-
ture ahead!

17

ADVENTURES sheer MONSTER ENCOUNTER BOXES

SKILL SN Ee LUCK “Skilt ; ; %
Initial tnitiot Tf | initial S|” ela ella
ASS Stamtin nao Luck= 4 Stamina= Sfamina= Stamina=
Taz | lege 25 ||20 7% |
lo, 16 i34|| 263
= 3h AZ) LFS 4 |
= j
EQUIPMENT GOLD ;
LIST 7 Skill= Skill= Skill=
) Stantina= Stamina= Stamina= .
SIwoLD
Sieve 'EWELS
(Lon Shed SIFKOS
Tie
(ge STA Tree POTION S Skill= Shiil= Skill=
0 oe Sneath Stamina™ Stamina= Staniina=
PROVISIONS
REMAINING 4
a
8 Skill Skill= Skill=
7 Stamina= Stamina= Stantina=
E
S
st f
L

19

= RATAN sible

” :

BACKGROUND

Winters in northern Allansia are always cruel and
bitter, The snow falls thick and the icy wind blows
hard, chilling everybody to the bone. For the past
few weeks you have been hired by a merchant called
Big Jim Sun to protect his trading caravans as they
roll their way slowly north to the frozen outposts.
The horse-drawn carts are laden with cloth, uten-
sils, weapons, salted meats, spices and tea, which
are traded for furs and ivory carvings made from
mammoths’ tusks, Big Jim is not usually worried
about travelling north, as bandits only attack his
caravans on the return journey — he is not alone in
recognizing the value of the northern goods.

On this particular trip you are walking ahead of six
carts across a frozen lake. In the distance you can see
the snow-capped peaks of the Icefinger Mountains
jutting out of low cloud. Your destination lies at the
base of the mountains where the Northmen meet to
trade, Snow is falling, but not too heavily, You stop
to prod the ice with your sword to make sure it can
bear the weight of carts, when suddenly the shrill
call of a hunting horn breaks the silence. You stand
up and run back to the carts to talk to Big Jim. He is
sitting next to the driver of the second cart, puffing
ona long briar pipe, A huge man, witha great bushy
beard, Big Jim is obviously a man to be reckoned
with, His bright blue eyes scan the horizon, search-

21

ing for signs of life. In a deep voice he says, ‘Sounds
like it came from the outpost. Reckon you better go
and investigate. Could be trouble. And get back

quick.’

You set off straight away towards the outpost at the
base of Icefinger Mountains. You arrive two hours
later ata scene of ugly carnage. The snow is red with
blood and all the wooden huts are smashed and tom
down. Six men lie dead, their bodies slashed, their
axes at their sides in the snow. Judging by the size of
the footprints, the creature that attacked the outpost
must have been enormous. There is nothing you
can do for the unfortunate Northmen, so you head
back towards Big Jim’s caravan to report the news.
You reach them in an hour, just as the daylight is
fading, and relate the terrible events that have befal-
len the outpost. Big Jim orders the carts to be drawn
into a circle to protect his men during the night. A
large fire is built into the centre of the circle and you
sit down beside it to talk to Big Jim. Everybody is
nervous and a guard is posted to watch for signs of
movement outside. In a low voice, Big Jim asks you
if you will hunt the terrible creature, for otherwise
his business will be ruined forever. You smile and
reply that you will track down the beast, but only
for a purse of 50 Gold Pieces. Big Jim’s jaw drops
open, and it takes a great deal of persuasion before
he agrees to your demand. The snow finally stops
falling as you settle down for the night; sleep is a
long time coming, for your mind is active with
thoughts of the impending hunt.

=

When you wake just after dawn, the fire is reduced
to dying embers. Wisps of smoke rise gently into the
morning mist and not a sound is to be heard. You
walk over to where Big Jim is sleeping and tap him
on the shoulder. He wakes with a start and you tell
him that you are setting off and hope to be back later
in the day. You wave to the guard as the snow starts

to fall again, and make your way back to the out-
post.

NOW TURN OVER

23

1

By the time you reach the outpost again, the bodies
are blanketed with snow and the beast’s footprints
are covered over, The visibility is poor as you set off
towards the mountains where you hope to find the
abominable killer beast. The snow on the mountain-
side is soft and you sink in up to your Knees as you
climb slowly up. You soon find yourself at the edge
| of a crevasse which is spanned by an ice bridge.

If you wish to cross the crevasse by the ice bridge,
turn to 335. If you would rather walk around the
crevasse, turn to 310.

if you rescued the Genie from the prism, you may
call on him now (turn to 14). If you did not rescue
the Genie, you have no defence against the crushing
blows of the Crystal Warrior and your quest is over.

4

3
5y some miracle, you are not hit by the heavy
chunks of falling ice. When they finally stop

crashing around you, you are surprised to see the.

welcome sight of blue sky above. The three of you
waste no time clambering out of the ice cavern, and
you find yourselves on the side of the mountain. Itis
not even snowing and everything looks tranquil. As
you climb down the mountain, you tell your friends
about Big Jim Sun and the circumstances that led
you to enter the caverns of the Snow Witch. You
realize that Big Jim would have presumed you were
dead; and you decide it is not worth chasing after
him to collect your reward for killing the Yeti.
Without any further ado you agree to accompany
Redswift and Stubb to Stonebridge (turn to 104).

4
The stake pierces the Snow Witch’s heart and her
death wail makes you shudder. She starts to decom-
pose, and soon all that is left is a pile of dust on the
floor. You see a vague shape in the wall of ice at the
end of the chamber, and decide to investigate (turn

to 235).

5-7

5
You instinctively clutch the hilt of your sword, as
the Healer’s words of warning echo through your
mind. Roll two dice. If the total is the same or less
than your SKILL score, turn to 68. If the total is
greater than your SKILL score, turn to 185.

6
Straining with all their might, your friends manage
to force your hand against the door. The tip of the
dagger sinks into the wood and you are able to
release the handle. Feeling quite relieved, you open
the door (turn to 285).

7
Taking the stick from your backpack, you thrust it at
the heart of the Snow Witch. If your sKILt is higher

than 10, turn to 4. If your SkILt is 10 or less, turn to
380,

S—10

8
You quickly gather your thoughts and remember
that a Vampire can only be killed by driving a stake
through its heart. If you possess a carved rune stick,
turn to 7. If not, turn to 121.

9
The arrow thuds into the side of the boat. You row
as hard as you can towards the far bank, but you are
still within the range of the Dark Elf’s arrows. You
watch him string his bow again and fire. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 32. If you are Un-
lucky, turn to 239.

; MITE TELS ELI TL asim

10

You panic when you realize that you are not car-
rying the weapons needed to slay a Vampire. The
Snow Witch slowly overcomes her fear of the garlic
and gradually gains control of your mind, forcing
you to bare your neck in readiness for her to drink
your blood. You will be her servant forever in the
world of the undead.

11-12

ell

Se l&

11

As soon as you step on to the white footprints, large
hailstones the size of walnuts rain down on you. It
is impossible to avoid being battered by the heavy
ice balls. Lose 2 STAMINA points. The shower stops
as abruptly as it started when all three of you get
past the footprints. Cursing the bewitched caverns
you press on down the tunnel (turn to 207).

12

The iron ball flies through the air and hits the Frost
Giant on the temple. His huge frame crumples to
the floor like a house of cards. The wooden chest he
was lifting breaks open, spilling its contents. You
find three ornate rings and a cracked bottle which
emits a sweet, scented odour. If you wish to try on
any of the rings, turn to 65. If you would rather walk
through to the next tunnel, turn to 338.

_

13

13

By mid-morning Stubb has become quite excited,
knowing that he will soon be home. Seconds later,
the thought of his dead friend Morri depresses him
and he shakes his fist at the unseen Hill Trolls. An
hour later you see distant wisps of smoke rising into
the sky, ‘Stonebridge!’ yells Stubb, He starts to run
ahead of you, but suddenly stops when he sees a
party of six HILL TROLLS marching towards his
village. Screaming a dwarfish battle-cry, he raises
his axe and charges at them. You cannot leave your
friend to fight them on his own and run forward to
fight at his side. Two of the Hill Trolls turn to fight
you,

SKILL STAMINA
First HILL TROLL 9 10
Second HILL TROLL g 9

Fight them both at the same time. During each
Attack Round, they will both make a separate attack
on you, but you must choose which of the two you
will fight. Attack your chosen Hill Troll as in a
normal battle, Against the other you will throw for
your Attack Strength in the normal way, but you
will not wound it if your Attack Strength is greater;
you must just count this as though you have de-
fended yourself against its blow. Of course, if its
Attack Strength is greater, it will wound you. If you
defeat them both, turn to 211.

24-15

14
The Genie appears, hovering above the Crystal War-
rior. He snaps his fingers and you immediately
become invisible. The Crystal Warrior punches the
air with his rough quartz fists, but you are able to
slip by him unnoticed. By the time the invisibility
spell wears off, you are well away from your adver-
_ Further on, the tunnel ends at a T-junction. If
you wish to go left, turn to 150. If you wish to go
right, turn to 368.

15

The Snow Witch stares at you for a long time before
calling out ‘Circle.’ You smile and unfold your
clenched fist, revealing the square metal disc, You
have outwitted her and she realizes the consequ-
ences, The globe starts to fill with white smoke and
suddenly it shatters, the image of the Snow Witch
disappears. Her shrill cry fills the cavern, but she is
defeated. The three of you slap each other's hands
in celebration. However, your joy is short-lived as
you hear an ominous rumbling. The ground be-
neath your feet starts to tremble and huge cracks
appear in the ice walls. The roof starts to cave in. Is
this the chance to escape that the Snow Witch
promised? Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 3.
if you are Unlucky, turn to 358.

~

16—18

16
You take careful aim again and throw the dagger at
the knob. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to
120. If you are Unlucky, turn to 153.

47
As you draw your sword, the Mountain Elflets outa
shrill battle-cry, pulls back his cloak and grips his
sword.

MOUNTAIN ELF _ sxit_6
If the Mountain Elf’s stamina falls to 2, turn to 305.

STAMINA 6

ae OM Ee aipiere nse eatsz eye

The other Bird-men, who were circling above you,
fly east after seeing the first Bird-man killed. Fright-
ened that they might return with a huge flock, you
decide to run across the plain. The sun is now
overhead and you begin to sweat profusely. You
become unbearably thirsty and curse the fact that
you have not got a water-bottle. You finally reach a
water-hole, but you feel like screaming when you
see the body of an OGRE lying face down in the
water. If you wish to drink the water, turn to 301. If
you would rather resist the temptation to drink,
turn to 63.

19

19

The Healer is right behind you, urging you to hurry
through the cave. You walk on in silence until you
see sunlight streaming through a crack at the end of
the cave. You see that the crack is just wide enough
for you to squeeze through, and you ask the Healer,
‘What will happen next?’ He calmly replies, ‘This is
as far as 1 go. The final part of your ordeal you must
face alone. Wearing your mask, you must be at the
summit of Firetop Mountain before dawn to watch
the sunrise. You must sit cross-legged facing east —
you will be totally cured the moment the first rays of
sunlight come up over the horizon. If you have
something made of silver, we will be able to attract a
PEGASUS to fly you there.” If you possess any
silver object, turn to 328, If you do not have any
silver, turn to 206.

ee: Se

20-21

20

The tunnel soon ends ata T-junction. Stepping into
the cross passage you almost bump into a primitive-
looking man wearing furs and carrying a large stone
club. He is a CAVE-MAN. You draw your sword
and tell Redswift and Stubb to head quickly down
the right-hand tunnel while you deal with the Cave-
man.

CAVE-MAN

If you win, turn to 141, You may Escape after two
Attack Rounds by running along the tunnel to catch
up with Redswift and Stubb (turn to 365).

SKILLS STAMINA S&S

24

You are now wearing a magic ring which will enable
its wearer to resist the effects of freezing cold. Add 1
LucK point. If you have not done so already, you
may put on either the silver ring (turn to 159) or the
copper ring (turn to 130), Alternatively, you may
walk through to the next tunnel (turn to 338).

22-23

22
The Mountain Elf shrugs his shoulders and says,
‘Well, don’t say I didn’t warn you — you won't geta
chance to change your mind once you are wearing
the obedience collar. Follow the tunnel to where it
branches and take the nght fork, Good luck.’ You
thank the Elf for his advice and set off again (turn to

136).

23

The Snow Witch looks surprised and displeased by
the defeat of her Zombies. Suddenly she says, ‘The
game we are going to play is called Discs. You will
not win, of course. Butin the unlikely event that you
do, I will give you the chance to escape. | hope you
have remembered to bring along your discs. With-
out them you lose!’ She laughs sadistically at the
thought of making up the rules on the spur of the
moment. Nevertheless, you must play as directed,
if you have any small metal discs, turn to 113. If you
do not possess any discs, turn to 40.

24-25

24
The liquid sends a glow through your body and you
feel wonderfully warm. You have swallowed a po-
tion made by the Snow Witch that keeps her follow-
ers from feeling the cold. Add 3 stamina points.
The potion also cures frostbite, Any SKILL points
that you may have lost because of frostbite are now
restored. With renewed vigour you walk back out of
the cavern (turn to 56).

25
Now that the snow has stopped falling, the sky is
clear and blue. The air is cold and crisp and the snow
crunches beneath your feet. Slowly you make your
way up the mountainside looking for the cave en-
trance marker left by the fur trapper. Suddenly you
hear a distant rumbling from above — the terrifying
sound of an avalanche. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 163. If you are Unlucky, turn to 109,’

26-28

26

You climb into the boat and push off from the bank.
You are about half-way across the river when you
hear someone shouting angrily behind you. Loak-
ing round you see the irate owner of the boat, a
DARK ELF wearing his familiar black hooded
cloak. He puts an arrow in his bow and fires it at
you, Test your Luck, Ifyou are Lucky, turn tog. If you
are Unlucky, turn to 227.

27

When you reach the hut, you kick open the door
and walk in with your sword drawn. Unfortunately,
the hut is empty. The herbalist must have packed
hurriedly and fled with your gold. Lose 1 Luck
point. You walk back down the path and up the
river valley, hoping that you will live long enough to
meet the herbalist again (turn to 205).

28
Time passes slowly but no Goblins appear; the rebel
slaves must be winning the battle of the caverns.
Eventually you feel fit enough to walk, and, with
the help of Stubb, you manage to hobble down the
tunnel (turn to 166).

rm ee Weis) cre

-
29-30

29
You are soon back at the fork and you turn left into
the other branch of the tunnel (turn to 106).

30

The Death Spell is not working as quickly on you as
it is on Redswift. You help him to his feet, apologiz-
ing that you made him read the infernal spell. He
tells you not to worry about it, he was as good as
dead anyway as a slave in the ice caverns. You
manage to struggle on for another hour, carrying
poor Redswift on your back. Suddenly his fingers
dig into your arm and then his whole body relaxes;
the Death Spell has won. After burying your elfin
friend in a leafy glade, you set off as quickly as you
can towards the Moonstone Hills, But you are weak
and cannot walk very fast. Lose 1 SKILL point and 1
STAMINA point, The ground becomes steeper as
you approach the foothills, and you wonder which
way you should go to find the Healer. If you wish to

31-32

continue east following the river into the hills, turn
to 46. If you would rather cross the river by the rope
bridge ahead of you, and walk south along the base
of the hills for a while, turn to 385.

31
Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 295. If you
are Unlucky, they realize that you are lying and
close in on you (turn to 143).

32

The arrow flies overhead and you reach the far bank
before the Dark Elf has time to fire again. You jump
out of the boat, gesture at the Dark Elf and set off
south across the Pagan Plain towards Stonebridge
(turn to 278).

a

33H

The followers are a group of Goblins, Orcs and
Neanderthals. As you make a run for it, the two
creatures who are nearest try to stop you, One
ccacks his whip, trying to wrap it round your legs,
while the other aims a dart at you. Test your Luck. If
you ate Lucky, turn to 226. If you are Unlucky, turn

to 3.40.

34
Taking the stick from your backpack, you thrustitat
the heart of the Snow Witch. If your SKIL is higher
than 10, turn to 4. If your skiLLis 10 or less, turn to
123.

ee Seer elite

35-36

35
Once again your friends fail to overcome the power

of the dagger. You watch with horror as your arm
rises and plunges the dagger into your own chest.
Your adventure ends here.

36

The front door of the hut is frozen shut and you
have to batterit with your shoulder to open it. There
is only one room inside the hut containing the
belongings of a fur trapper. Traps, furs and sacks
are stacked in acorner of the room. A wooden bed, a
table and chairand some cooking utensils show sign
of recent use, and the ashes in the fire are still warm.
If you wish to put some logs on the fire and warm up
the cold stew in one of the pans, turn to 118. If you
would rather leave the hutand continue your quest,
turn to 192.

37-38

The figure in front of you steps forward again; it is
holding a lantern and when it gets closer you see its
horrific features. Its face is ashen and its eyes are
just two grey folds of skin sunken in their sockets.
You have entered the dark domain of a NIGHT
STALKER and you must fight it.

NIGHT STALKER sKILL11 STAMINA §

During each round of combat, you must reduce
your Attack Strength by 2 because you are not used
to fighting in the dark. If you win, turn to 306.

38
Even though it is quite cool walking along the bank
of the Red River, you start to sweat and feel dizzy.
You look at Redswift and he, too, looks far from
well. His face is white and his eyes look dark and
sunken. ‘Sit down,’ says Redswift in a laboured
voice. You gratefully stop and collapse on to the
grass, quite worried now as your heart is beating
very fast. ‘Do you remember walking through the
caverns of the Snow Witch and arriving at a door
with a piece of parchment nailed toit? You could not

—

— S

39-40

understand what was written on it and asked me to
read it. It was a Death Spell and we are now both
doomed. It is starting to work on us sooner than I
expected. We have to find the old man of the hills
that they call the Healer. Only he can save us now.
But I fear it may be too late already, My legs are so
weak, I don’t know if I'll be able to stand again.’ If
you drank the Potion of Health that belonged to the
Dark Elf, turn to 30. If you did not drink this Potion,
turn to 367.

39
Thrusting your leg out to the side, you kick the
nearest Goblin in the stomach. He doubles up, and
an upper-cut to the jaw sends him crashing to the
floor. The other Goblin lunges forward and tries to
stab you with his dagger. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 240. If you are Unlucky, turn to 386.

40
Feeling cheated because you have lost the game
before it even started, you draw your sword, intent
on smashing the Snow Witch's globe (turn to 244).

41-43

41
You tread carefully over the bridge. Safely across
the crevasse, you continue your slow trek through
the snow (turn to 212).

42
You pull the straps off your shoulders and watch
your backpack disappear under the water. You have
lost all your gold, your possessions and any remain-
ing Provisions. Lose 2 LUCK points. The strong cur-
rent drags you down river, and all you can do is try
to save yourself from drowning. Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, turn to 201. If you are Unlucky, turn
to 280.

43
You pick up your sword from the floor and search
through the clothing of the Goblins. You find and
take their two daggers, some salted fish, a candle
and 2 Gold Pieces. The metal collars round their
necks have stopped glowing, but you cannot re-
move them. Wondering if any more traps lie beyond
the ice pit, you try to decide which way to head. If
you wish to continue down the tunnel, turn to 88. If
you would rather walk back to where the tunnel
forked and turn left along the other branch, turn to

29.

44-46

44
The energy bolt which hits you is too much of a

shock for your body to bear. You are knocked to the
ground and black out. You do not wake up again
and your adventure ends here.

45
You examine the wooden chest lying on the floor
and decide to prise it open with your sword. Inside
you find three ornate rings and a cracked bottle
which emits a sweet odour. If you wish to try on any
of the rings, turn to 65. If you would rather walk
through to the next tunnel, turn to 338.

46

The river narrows and the ground becomes steeper.
As you climb, you feel yourself becoming weaker by
the minute. Lose 1 STAMINA point. You walk past a
large hollow tree stump, paying it no attention,
until you notice a thick vine, which is tied to its roots
and runs up over the edge of the stump. You look
inside the hollow stump and see the vine disappear-
ing into its black depths. Will you:

Pull the vine? Turn to 312
Climb down the vine? Turn to 394
Keep on walking up the river

valley? Turn to 119

47-49

47
It takes half an hour of hard walking to reach the end
of the crevasse, You are now able to climb further up
the mountain. The steep climb and the swirling
snow combine to make the going slow (turn to 337).

eho Erpererse cue aetatn! |r

48
When you pick it up, the orb starts to get warmer
and its colours change rapidly and swirl around.
Redswift and Stubb back away, telling you to put it
down. Will you:

Keep hold of the orb? Turn to 275

Place it gently on the floor? Turn to 117

Throw it down the tunnel? Turn to 318
49

As soon as you step into the tunnel, an iron grille
drops down behind you, barring your retreat. It is
impossible to lift and there is nothing you can do but
find out what lies at the end of the tunnel. You soon
arrive at another iron grille which blocks your way
forward. Beyond the grille the tunnels tum left. On
the wall opposite, you see a knob which you realize
must be pressed to lift the iron grille, Unfortunately
it is beyond your reach, even if you stretch out with
your sword. If you have one or more daggers, turn
to 234. If you have no daggers, turn to 393.
ANT es 7 Fp
1‘ Sh ¥

1A

\ »,/

‘ . ,
fs ree, he
fs Sy i
‘)

50-52

50

As you approach the fire, you smell the delicious
aroma of a duck being roasted. You draw your
sword and walk warily forward. Suddenly a sinewy
man with long hair and a beard jumps out from
behind a rock, screaming at the top of his voice.
He is wearing animal furs and carrying a stone
club which he raises to attack you. You must fight
the WILD HILL MAN.

WILD HILL MAN _ skxiLL6

If you win, turn to 320. You may Escape after two
Attack Rounds by running back across the rocks to
the north bank of the river (turn to 364).

STAMINA 5

51

The energy bolt gives your system a terrible shock.
You are knocked to the ground by its force. Lose 1
SKILL point and 4 STAMINA points. If you are still
alive, turn to 336.

52

You remember an old legend that ground minotaur
horn is the only substance that can stop a meta-
morphosis spell from working. You quickly sprinkle
some on the growing creature, and relax a little as it
shrinks back to a white rat again. The legend was
true! Intrigued by the open sarcophagus, you de-
cide to walk over and examine it {turn to 297),

53755

53
Nobody replies to your call. If you wish to enter the
cave, tum to 246, If you would rather go back down
into the gorge, turn to 355.

54
You light the candle and look across the pit. It is
about 15 metres wide and the log is quite narrow.
The Healer tells you to walk across it as soon as you
are ready, Roll two dice. If the total is the same or
less than your SKILL score, turn to 91. If the total is
greater than your SKILL score, turn to 78.

55
When you pull the dagger from the door, it sudden-
ly takes on a will of its own. Involuntarily you start
to stab at your own leg with the wild dagger in your
hand. Lose 2 sTAMINA points. Redswift and Stubb
run to your aid and try to force your hand to stab the
door in order to trap the dagger. Test your Luck. If

you are Lucky, turn to 6. If you are Unlucky, turn to
236.

56-58

56
You walk past the entrance tunnel on your left and
continue on down the main tunnel (turn to 395).

57
As you walk away the Dwarf calls out to his god to
curse you. Lose 2 LUCK points. You walk past the
junction and along the other branch of the tunnel,
the cries of the Dwarf ringing in your ears (turn to
125).

58

Lying between the stunted bushes, you listen to the
noise of the thundering hooves growing louder,
Bending back a branch, you see four CENTAURS
gallop by, each armed with a bow and a quiver of
arrows. You lie quite still until the sound of their
hooves fades. When you are certain that they are
out of sight, you stand up and continue your jour-
ney south (turn to 278).

\ } Via i)
MY
Hi)

~

i“
.

-S&
\ ee

ial

eM

nae
“at

ee

aT

x 'riblbny iyi
Dye

Ne)

“Wilt

|
yy

\\S

THAN

N

ta

“

WN

WY

in AY veh

“A

il

«4

Pear) YH

' ‘ “A
Pri
= Let.

wt
es 3d

» we

PERV Db senstebnine’ tas.

59-60

59

Before you stands a CRYSTAL WARRIOR, one of
the Snow Witch's personal guardians who has been
sent to deal with you. He is made of quartz which
has been animated by the Snow Witch's sorcery.
Edged weapons will not harm the Crystal Warrior —
your sword is useless! If you possess a war-hammer
you may succeed in smashing the Crystal Warrior to
pieces.

CRYSTAL
WARRIOR

If you do not possess a war-hammer, turn to 2. If
you win, turn to 148.

SKILL i1 STAMINA 13

The Snow Witch climbs out of the sarcophagus and
walks towards you with her mouth wide open. Her
gaze is powerful and you hear a voice in your mind
telling you to drop your sword and loosen your
collar. Roll two dice, If the total is the same or less
than your SKILL score, turn to 8. If the total is higher
than your SKILL, turn to 116-
61-62

61

As you walk along, the Elf introduces himself. ‘My
name is Redswift, and he is known as Stubb,’ he
says, pointing to the smiling Dwarf. ‘We met here
as slaves in the service of the vile Snow Witch. We
both now hope to return to our villages. I live
in the Moonstone Hills and Stubb comes from
Stonebridge. If we manage to escape from these
infernal caverns, you are more than welcome to
come and stay with us. Stonebridge is on the way to
my village in the hills. It’s also a long way off.’
Before Redswift can continue, Stubb shouts and
points to an orb lying on the floor. It is made of glass
and in the torchlight it seems to glow with swirling
colours. ‘Leave it,’ commands Redswift, ‘we do not
need it and it could be a trap.’ If you wish to ignore
Redswift’s advice and pick up the orb, turn to 48. If
you would rather keep on walking, turn to 166,

62
The Zombie picks up a club from behind the door
and shuffles forward to fight you,

ZOMBIE

If you win, turn to 200. You may Escape after two
Attack Rounds by running back to the junction and
going straight on down the tunnel (turn to 150).

SKILL 6 STAMINA6

63-65

63
Your thirst makes you weary. Lose 1 STAMINA
point. However, you do not wish to risk drinking
the water (turn to 96),

The great wall of snow sweeps you down the moun-
tain. Your head smashes against a rock, knocking
you unconscious. By the time the avalanche comes
to a halt in a gully, you are buried deep under the

snow, Icefinger Mountains have claimed another
victim.

Having rubbed the bottle and sniffed your fingers,
you decide that it is only perfume inside. You
examine the three rings and decide which one to put
on your finger. Will you:

Put on the gold ring? Turn to 21
Put on the silver ring? Turn to 159
Put on the copper ring? Turn to 130

5-67

66
Taking the shield has unleashed the fury of an AIR
ELEMENTAL. An expanding whirlwind thunders
down the tunnel. You try to stand your ground,
awaiting its terribie impact. Seconds later its fero-
cious power hits you, and debris caught up in it
hurtles towards you, Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 294. If you are Unlucky, turn to 160.

You kneel down beside the fur trapper and turn him
over slowly. His eyes are barely open and blood
trickles down from the corner of his mouth. The Yeti
has gouged deep wounds in his chest and you
realize that there is no hope of saving him. With a
great effort he reaches up and grabs you round the
neck, pulling you down so that you can hear his
dying words. He thanks you for trying to save him,
and insists on telling you his secret. In terrible pain

he struggles to whisper his story. He tells you that

he has lived in the mountains for most of his life,
hunting animals and trading their furs, but for the
last five years he has been searching for the legen-
dary Crystal Caves. These caves have been cut out
of a glacier by the followers of the Snow Witch, a
beautiful yet evil sorceress, who is trying to use her
dark powers to bring on an ice age so that she can
rule supreme over the whole world. The entrance to
the Crystal Caves is high up on this very mountain.
It is open, but hidden by an illusion. The unfortun-
ate fur trapper found it by accident only yesterday,
when he saw one of the Snow Witch's warriors
seemingly walk straight through an ice wall and
disappear. The trapper left a piece of fur hanging
over the entrance so that he could find it again the
next day. Sadly, the Yeti has put an end to his
hopes. He asks you to enter the caves to slay the vile
Snow Witch and leave her followers without their
leader, There are legends about great treasures
being frozen into the wall of the Snow Witch’s lair
which would provide ample reward. The fur trap-
per suddenly grips you hard and then falls back
silently into the snow — he’s dead. You cover him
with snow, before deciding what to do. 50 Gald
Pieces await you if you return with evidence of the
Yeti’s death to Big Jim Sun; but the thought of a
quest through the Crystal Caves beneath Icefinger
Mountains excites you, and you decide to set off to
find thern (turn to 25).

Setween her screams the Banshee tells you that you
are going to die. However, the Healer’s concoction
enables you to resist the temptation to draw your
sword to silence her, and you manage to pass by her
unharmed (turn to 19).

After putting the coins carefully into a hidden pock-
et, the old man tells you to be careful of two things if
you are travelling south to Stonebridge. Firstly, the
nearest water-hole has been poisoned; and second-
ly, there are lots of Hill Trolls gathering to the north
of Stonebridge. He bids you good luck and farewell
and walks off. Stubb urges you to set off as quickly
25 possible, worried about the possible attack on
Stonebridge by the Hill Trolls (turn to 348).

|

70-71

70
The Mountain Elf laughs and says he never puts on
any weight, but if he was fortunate enough to be
able to take off his collar he might try to run away.
He has hardly finished the sentence when he
screams in pain. He tries in vain to pull the obedi-
ence collar from his neck, begging forgiveness at the
top of his voice from an unseen master. He finally
Stops screaming and slumps to the floor, his face
dripping with sweat. You ask him if he is all right,
but he does not respond. Lose 1 tuck point. You
decide to leave him and press on down the tunnel
(turn to 241),

71

The man springs out of his chair and says, ‘Indeed |
am. What ails you, stranger?’ You tell the old man
about your adventures in the ice caverns and the
spell that is slowly destroying you. The old man
smiles and says, ‘Death Spells? They are easy to
counteract. You just need a jar of my special mixed
herbs, a bargain at only 50 Gold Pieces.’ You are
surprised that the man wants to charge you money
to save your life, but he seems quite adamant. If you
wish to pay the man for the herbs, turn to 149. If you
would rather threaten him, turn to 390.

—T

72

You pretend to give up the fight and then suddenly
leap at the Illusionist. Catching him momentarily off
guard, you manage to snatch the prism out of his
hands and throw it on to the floor. It shatters into
tiny pieces and the Illusionist turns and flees into
the skull mouth, screaming at the top of his voice.
Smoke rises from the shattered fragments of the
prism, and forms itself into the shape of a bald fat
man — a Genie! Hovering in mid-air, he bows and
thanks you for releasing him. He tells you thatif you
call on him, he will make you invisible, just once, as
a token of his gratitude. Without saying another
word, the image shimmers and disappears. You
now have to decide which way to head. Will you:

Enter the tunnel to your left? Turn to 266
Enter the tunnel with the skull

mouth? Turn to 288
Enter the tunnel to your right? Turn to 49

aint A mm

a _— «= —

73-74

73

Unfortunately you draw the short straw. Lose 1
LUCK point. As soon as you touch the casket’s
handle, it comes to life. An ASP wraps itself around
your hand and, before you can shake it off, it sinks
its poisonous fangs into your wrist. Lose 4 STAMINA
points and 1 sKrxL point. If you are still alive, you
manage to stagger down the tunnel (turn to 20).

74
You blow into the flute and a jolly tune comes from

it without your having to play a note. You decide to
put the magic flute in your backpack. If you have not
done so already you may:

Read the runes on the stick Turn to 345
Smell the rose Turn to 317
Read the book Turn to 356

If you do not wish to do any of the above, you may
leave the cave and turn left into the tunnel (turn to

198).

73

Peering into the cave, you see that it runs deep into
the side of the hill. Torches cast an eerie light inside
the cave, illuminating wooden carvings and masks
that are hanging on the walls. You step inside and
see a robed figure sitting on the floor with its back to
you. Without turning round, the mysterious person
says, ‘I am the Healer. If you have come to be
healed, stand before me now.’ Your heart beats
faster as you walk over to stand in front of him.
Before you is a man who is horribly disfigured; his
body is terribly twisted, but he sits there proudly,
although pain registers on his face. You tell him that
you have been cursed with a Death Spell and have
come to be cured. The Healer nods his head and
says, ‘The power of a Death Spell is difficult to
destroy. I have only managed to break it once, and it
wasn't easy. A ritual has to be performed which you
might not survive. Still, you must try, I will help you
as much asIcan. First, you must place a Mask of Life
over your face to halt the spread of the Death Spell.
If you survive the initial battle between life and
death, you will be able to face the second stage of the
reversal process.’ The Healer then takes a strange
mask off the wall, carved to symbolize the sun. As
you place it over your face, you feel as though your
body is being torn apart. Roll 1 die and subtract that
number from your STAMINA score. If you are still
alive, turn to 258.
78-77

As soonas they see that their leader has been killed,
the other Centaurs retreat. You stop Redswift and
Stubb from chasing after them. If you do not already
possess a shield, you may take the one lying on the
round next to the Centaur leader. Add 1 SKILL
point. If you wish to try on the Centaur's helmet,
turn to 362. If you would rather leave it and set off
immediately for Stonebridge, turn to 278.

77
Are you carrying a spear? If you are, turn to 392. Lf
you do not have a spear, turn to 378.

73-79

You are half-way across the log when suddenly you
panic and start to wobble from side to side. Losing
your footing, you fall off the log and plunge head-
long down into the deep pit. You hit the stone floor
at considerable speed and are killed instantly.

\OEALEA HS fravirep raza eave pis | leas

The water looks harmless enough, but you do not
relish the thought of being wet as well as cold. But
you have no choice, you must walk under the gentle
waterfall. As you do so, you suddenly notice your
clothes are beginning to smoulder. You start to run
as you realize that itis not water dripping down, but
deadly acid; a trap no doubt devised by the evil
Snow Witch to deter runaway servants or slaves.
You cry out in pain as the acid burns into your skin.
Lose 4 STAMINA points. If you are still alive, turn to
383.
So

80

The Minstrel looks amazed that you are interested
in his music, He stops playing and says, “You must
be new here, as the ignorant scum who live round
here — apart from our beloved Snow Queen of
course — will not listen to my music. The fools, if
only they knew what fortune I could bring them
with my songs. Stranger, I can play a song for you
that will heal your wounds, Listen carefully and
watch. Later tell that rabble about it and perhaps
they will come to respect me and my music." The
Minstrel then starts to play a soothing tune and you
watch amazed as one of your wounds heals. Add 4
STAMINA points. ‘Come back again for more treat-
ment some time,’ he says, looking pleased with
himself. You thank him and leave his cave to con-
tinue along the tunnel (turn to 111).

o-

81-82

81
You dive under the outcrop as the snow crashes
down all around. Pressing yourself as close as you
can against the ice-covered wall of your shelter, you
wait until the avalanche has passed by. With a sigh

of relief you set off again in search of the Crystal
Caves (turn to 363).

82
You just manage to keep your head above the
surface of the water, but you are unable to swim to
the bank. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to
201. If you are Unlucky, turn to 280,
83-84

83
A man comes to the door. His skin is a sickly
grey-white colour. His vacant eyes and slow move-
ments are definitely those of a mindless ZOMBIE. If
you wish to attack him, turn to 62, If you wish torun
back to the junction and head straight on, turn to
150,

The energy bolt slams into your chest. If your sta-
MINA total is 10 or less, turn to 44. If it exceeds 10 in
| total, turn to 51.

85-86

85

By the time you reach the top of the hill, you are
panting very heavily, Lose 1 STAMINA point, You
are so exhausted, that you do not look about you,
and only hear Ash’s warning cry as a DEATH
HAWK dives down to attack you. Ash fires an
arrow at the bird of prey. Ash’s sx1L1 is 9. Roll two
dice. If the total is the same or less than Ash’s SKILL,
turn to 175. If the total is greater than Ash’s skILL,
turn to 238.

86
The Goblins release the rope and stand at the top of
the pit, laughing at your useless attempt to trick
them. Your predicament is now worse than ever;
trapped at the bottom of an ice pit without even
your sword. Lose 2 LUCK points. You sigh and call to
the Goblins, asking them to catch the rope as you
throw it up to them again. They take hold of it and
you climb up out of the pit. The Goblins are dressed
in furs and are also wearing glowing metal collars

57

round their necks. They motion you to walk back
down the tunnel, urging you on with the points of
their daggers. You realize that you are doomed
unless you try to escape. If you wish to fight them
with your bare hands, turn to 39. If you would
rather try to nin away, turn to 102.

87

As soon as you step on to the black footprints you
feel a strange sensation. Your whole bady starts to
vibrate and your legs feel so weak that you think
you are about to collapse. You press on resolutely,
but when you step past the final footprint you still
feel as though your body has been drained of some
of its strength. Lose 1 SKILL point and 3 STAMINA
points. Cursing the bewitched caverns you press on
down the tunnel (turn to 207).

88

88

The tunnel continues for some distance before
opening out into a circular cave. Another tunnel
leads out of the cave directly opposite. You are
suddenly met by a strange sight — there are two
small pools in the floor with steam gently rising
from them; protruding from one pool is the hilt of a
sword and, from the other, the shaft of a spear. The
frozen body of an Orc lies against the wall, its arm
rigid and pointing towards the sword. As you
approach the pools you see a rhyme carved in the ice
floor which reads:

Sword or spear
Strength or fear
How to choose

Win or lose.

You stand and ponder the rhyme, trying to decide
what to do. Will you:

Draw out the sword from its

pool? Turn to 237
Pull out the spear from its
pool? Turn to 250

Walk directly through the cave
into the tunnel opposite? Turn to 221
89-90

89
Test your Luck, Lf you are Lucky, turn to 331. If you
are Unlucky, turn to 103.

anh 3
foe PPT i hee

90
Redswift and Stubb are not injured by the falling ice
and they help you to your feet. Above, you are
surprised to see the welcome sight of blue sky. The
three of you waste no time clambering out of the ice
cavern, and you find yourselves on the side of the
mountain. It is not even snowing and everything
looks tranquil. As you climb down the mountain,
you tell your friends about Big Jim Sun and the
circumstances that led you to the caverns of the
Snow Witch. You realize that Big Jim would have
presumed you were dead; and you decide it is not
worth chasing after him to collect your reward for
killing the Yeti. Without any further ado you agree
to accompany Redswift and Stubb to Stonebridge
(turn to 104),

=>

gi-g2

gi
Walking slowly and carefully, you reach the other
side of the pit, much to your relief. The Healer walks
casually across the log as though the pit was not
there. ‘Good,’ he says, ‘now you must prepare
yourself for the next stage. In order to survive, you
must be totally calm. If you have a dragon's egg, I
can make you a relaxing concoction.” If you possess
a dragon's egg, turn to 359. If you are not carrying a
dragon's egg, turn to 271.

g2
You walk round a large boulder and see a huge man
sleeping in the shade. He is lying on top of some
animal skins, snoring loudly, His two-handed
battleaxe lies propped up against the boulder. He is
a BARBARIAN and it would be foolish to wake him
up, so you decide to tiptoe past him. If you are
wearing elfin boots, turn to 128. If you are wearing
ordinary boots, turn to 374.

93-94

93
You manage to step out of the way of the chest

which comes flying towards you. It smashes against
the wall and breaks open, spilling its contents on the
floor. The Frost Giant lumbers towards you, intent
on killing you, but you are ready with your sword.

FROST GIANT SKILL 10

You may Escape after two Attack Rounds by running
out of his lair into the next tunnel (turn to 338). Lf
you win, turn to 182.

STAMINA 10

You stumble to the left and inadvertently step on
one of the white footprints (turn to 11).

:
>.
--
&
=
=
3
“
<
-
s
S
=
>
-
*
’
\
"
}
‘

95

95

The Gnome runs up to you and shouts, ‘Get out,
dinner will not be ready for another two hours.
You'll hear the bell. Mind you, you look a little
worse for wear, so you can have this stale cake if you
wish.’ The Gnome points at a piece of cake lying on
the table. If you wish to take the cake and leave, turn
to 290. If you would rather attack the Snow Witch's
servants, turn to 187.

96

The three of you set off to the south, worried about

_ the shortage of water. Stubb tries to offer some
comfort by saying that you should reach
Stonebridge in less than a day. He says that he is
surprised that he hasn't seen any of his fellow
Dwarfs by now. ‘Oh yes we have,’ says Redswift
solemnly, ‘but you won't want to see them like
that.’ He points to a boulder about 50 metres west.
The bloodied body of a Dwarf lies propped up
against it, his head has slumped forward, and he is
motionless. His axe is still in his hand, and whoever
or whatever attacked him cannot be faraway. Stubb
runs up to the Dwarf wailing in grief. ‘It’s Morri the
lronsmith,’ he says. ‘This looks like the work of Hill
Trolls. Let’s bury Morri and get to Stonebridge as
quickly as possible to tell them this terrible news.
Here, take Morri’s water-bottle. He won’‘t need it

LN Seieisore! now.” You gulp down the water and are at last
SURO ORR refreshed. Add 1 sTaMiNa point, After marking
PIM. Sp Morri’s grave with his axe and helmet, you set off

again for Stonebridge (turn to 110),

PLP.

- —/
- -

ny
N s
4

es

| ¢ ui q°
97-98

97
There is no writing in the book, just a recess cut in
the pages which holds a talisman ona golden chain.
The talisman is a jade frog. If you wish to put the
chain around your neck, turn to 327. If you would
prefer to leave it in the book, you may, if you have
not done so already, do one of the following:

Blow the flute Turn to 74
Read the nines on the stick Turn to 345
Smell the rose Turn to 317

If you do not wish to do any of the above, you may
leave the cave and turn left into the tunnel (turn to

198).

Still suffering from the effects of the energy bolt,
you have to decide quickly what to do next. If you
wish to stand up and run on, turn to 262. If you
would rather try to smash the globe with your
sword, turn to 244.

99-100

99
The Illusionist laughs out loud as your sword mere-

ly cuts through one of his images and his dagger
plunges into your shoulder. Lose 2 sTAMINA
points. Turn to 279.

100

The Elf asks you why you are looking for the Healer.
You tell him about your battles in the ice caverns,
the Death Spell and how poor Redswift met his end.
‘Redswift!’ cries the Elf. ‘He’s my brother!’ He ex-
plains that his name is Ash and he never knew that
his brother had been enslaved by the Snow Witch.
Suddenly, saddened by the news of Redswift’s
death, he walks away and stands silently in the
sunlight. After a few minutes, he says, ‘I will help
you to find the Healer but you will have to face him
alone, because he will only make contact with the
sick, He was disfigured and cursed with disease and
pain by The Dark Ones, the evil spirits of the night,
for ridding a wizard named Nicodemus of a Death
Spell they had cast on him. Now he practises his
work in the solitude of the hills. Follow me, it looks
as if we have no time to lose,’ Ash walks ahead of
you, constantly alert for danger. You climb up the
valley for an hour before reaching a rope bridge
which spans the river. Ash says that you will have to
==

101

cross the bridge. You tell him that you will have to
rest first as the Death Spell continues to drain your
life force. Lose 1 STAMINA point. Later you tell Ash
that you are ready to continue and step on to the
bridge. You are about half-way across when you
suddenly hear voices shouting. You look around
and see two HILL TROLLS cutting the ropes which
secure the bridge to its supports. You hurry as fast
as you can towards the far bank. Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, tui to 273. If you are Unlucky, turn
to 181.

101

Lying at the bottom of the red pot is a square metal
disc which you decide to put in your backpack. If
you now wish to look inside the grey pot, turn to
344- If not, you may leave the cavern by the opposite
door (turn to 176).

102~103

102
The Goblins call ‘Halt!’ But you keep on running.
They both take aim and throw their daggers at you.
Roll one die. If you roll a 1 or2, turn to1go. Ifyou roll
43 Or 4, turn to 330. If you roll a 5 or 6, turn to 245.

103

The Mountain Elf looks surprised, and asks why
you are not wearing your obedience collar, You see
that he is wearing a metal collar round his neck
which glows in the semi-darkness, and realize that
it must be the collar he is talking about. If you wish
to reply that you have put on weight recently and
are having your collar widened, turn to 70. If you
would rather attack the Elf before he raises the
alarm, turn to 382.
104

104

Your journey south is long and arduous, but your
determination to leave Icefinger Mountains behind
you spurs you on. Two days after leaving the ice
caverns, you reach the River Kok. Fifty miles up-
river lies Fang, the town where Baron Sukumvit’s
notorious Deathtrap Dungeon awaits its challen-
gers each year for the Trial of Champions. However,
at this time of year Fang is unlikely to be more
interesting than any other river town. You decide
against going there and walk down-river to find a
bridge or a boatman. After walking for half an hour
along the bank of the wide, dirty-brown river, you
see a man asleep aboard a raft moored to the bank.
You shout to him and ask him to ferry you across.
He tells you to go away as he is too tired to work
today. If you wish to offer him 10 Gold Pieces to
make him change his mind, turn to 315. If you
would rather walk on, turn to 131.

(Nall rat

bt fie’ *™

105

paqrseseined

105

Ash waits for an opportunity to shoot and fires
another arrow at close range. This time he does not
miss, and the Death Hawk plunges to the ground
with an arrow protruding from its breast. The other
side of the hill slopes down into a gorge and Ash
tells you that you must now journey alone to meet
the Healer. He tells you to walk east up the gorge
until you see the head of a Phoenix carved in the
rock. The Healer lives in a cave in the side of the hill
above the carved rock. You thank Ash for his help
and walk slowly down the hill into the gorge. At the
bottom you follow Ash’s instructions and turn left
up the gorge (turn to 252).

106-107

106

Further ahead, in the left-hand wall of the tunnel,
you see a gap. You walk up to it and peer round to
see a cave in which a NEANDERTHAL is stripping
the skin off a moose making it ready for the large
simmering stew-pot behind him. He is working
very slowly and is being yelled at by the GNOME
cook who is wearing a white apron and waving a
wooden spoon in the air. If you wish to enter the
crude kitchen, turn to 95. If you would rather creep
past the entrance, turn to 267.

107
You stumble, but manage to avoid treading on
either the white or the black footprints. Regaining
your balance, you walk on between the footprints
(turn to 207).

108

108
The followers pick you up and carry you over to a
circle of ice, dyed blue, in which the effigy stands.
Amid wails and wild shouting, they throw you into
the blue circle. The effigy immediately jerks its
frozen limbs into motion — you have unleashed the
power of an ICE DEMON.

ICE DEMON SKILL

in addition to its normal attack, throw one die every
Attack Round for the jet of freezing gas that shoots
out from its nostrils, Ona roll of 1, 2 or 3, the gas will
hit you and reduce yoursTAMINA by 1 point, but on
a roll of 4, 5 or 6, the gas will miss you. If you win,
turn to 184.

STAMINA TI

109-110

Nall TATTLE ed aa
ed eds “ t=

109

You look up and see great cascades of snow tumb-
ling down the mountainside. With horror you
realize that you are standing in the path of the
avalanche. You look around and see an outcrop
under which you could shelter. The approaching
mass of snow is no more than a hundred metres
away and you struggle to run for cover. Roll two
dice. If the total is the same or less than your sKILL
score, turn to 81. If the total is greater than your
SKILL score, turn to 371.

110

Night is approaching and you decide to camp in the
shelter of some rocks and bushes, despite Stubb's
plea to carry on. You build a fire and settle down to
sleep. Redswift takes the first watch. Test your Luck.
If you are Lucky, turn to 399. If you are Unlucky,
turn to 251,
111-112

111
In the distance you can hear chanting voices; soon
the tunnel ends at the entrance to a large cavern.
Kneeling down before an ice effigy in the shape of a
demon, with their hooded faces pressed to the ice
floor in worship, are ten of the Snow Witch's follow-
ers. There are two exits from the cave, one straight
ahead and one to your right. If you wish to pretend
to be one of the worshippers and walk boldly into
the cavern, turn to 300. If you would rather creep
cautiously into the cavern, turn to 283.

112
If you have a sling and wish to use it against the
Frost Giant, turn to 373. If you would rather fight
him with your sword, turn to 292,

113-114

113
The Snow Witch quickly explains the rules of her
game; she tells you to choose a disc and conceal it in
your clenched fist. She will call out a shape. A
square beats a circle. A circle beats a star. Anda star
beats a square. If you win, you will be given a
chance to escape. If you lose, you will die. If you
both choose the same shape, you will play again.
Your life depends on your next decision. Now you
must make your choice. Of course, if you do not
possess all three discs, your choice will be limited.
Will you:

Conceal the square disc? Turn to 15

Conceal the circular disc? Turn to 152

Conceal the star disc? Turn to 392
114

You manage to keep control of your mind and pick
up the stick again. This time you thrust it at the
Snow Witch's heart with even more determination
(turn to 4).

115-117

115
Through the trees to your left, you see a tall man
with pointed ears and fair hair. He is wearing a
green cloak and heis busy carving arrow shafts with
his knife. He is an ELF, similar in appearance to
Redswift. If you wish to ask him if he knows where
the Healer lives, turn to 100. If you would rather
attack him with your sword, turn to 397.

116
You find yourself obeying her command. You
fam Noe loosen your collar and bare your neck in readiness
N RE a aT er for her to drink your blood. You will be her servant

(ny SEV es

r s
’.
LSN=|l''
“a ~2 cx ‘ \.
eS :
a 2 A

ZED eens forever in the world of the undead.

117
Expecting something disastrous to happen, Red-
swift and Stubb shrink back when you place the orb
on the ground. But nothing happens except that the
orb starts to glow again. You shrug your shoulders
and soon catch up with your two companions (tum
to 166).

i* 2
ty 19
2¢

Wf

118-120

118
The fire is soon roaring and crackling in the hearth,
The heat of the flames radiates through your body
and you revel in the warmth. The stew is delicious
and you feel your strength returning. Add 3 STAMI-
NA points. With renewed energy, you decide to
leave the hut to continue your quest (turn to 192).

119
To your left, you see a narrow footpath leading from
the bank of the river into the trees. If you wish to
walk up the footpath, turn to 168. If you would
rather go on up the valley, turn to 205.

120

The dagger hits the knob and the iron grille slowly
starts to rise. Add 1 LucK point. You waste no time —
you run under the grille, turn left and keep going
until you arrive ata crossroads. There are no signs of
life either from straight ahead or from the branch to
your left, but advancing towards you along the
right-hand tunnel is a strange humanoid (turn to

59}.

121-124

121

You panic as you realize that you are not carrying
the weapons needed to slay a Vampire. The Snow
Witch gradually gains control of your mind and
forces you to bare your neck in readiness for her to
drink your blood. You will be her servant forever in
the world of the undead.

122

The energy bolt which hits you, gives your system a
terrible shock. You are knocked to the ground by its
force. Lose 1 SKILL point and 4 STAMINA points. If
you are still alive, turn to 322.

123

The Snow Witch manages to overcome her fear of
garlic and knocks the stick out of your hand. Her
gaze is powerful and you hear a voice in your mind
telling you to drop the garlic and loosen your collar.
Roll two dice. If the total is the same or less than
your SKILL score, turn to 114. If the total is higher
than your SKILL, turn to 134.

124
When you land on the third rock, your foot slips and
you fall into the river. You are swept downstream
and you are too weak to swim against the fast-
flowing current. If you are carrying 400 or more
Gold Pieces, turn to 381, If you are carrying less
than 400 Gold Pieces, turn to 82.
125-126

125
“tif Yi ed Be The tunnel through the glacier soon leads into the
Ages ee * et’ AN mountainside itself and the walls change from ice to

bare rock. You enter a large cavern which has three
other exits leading from it; one to your left, one to
your right and the main one, carved asa giant skull,
lying directly opposite. As you enter, an ugly robed
man steps out of the mouth of the skull, holding a
glass prism in his outstretched hands. He com-
mands you to turn back as only the Snow Witch’s
personal servants are allowed inside the mountain.
If you have a magic flute you may wish to tell him
that you have been asked to come and play it for the
Snow Witch (turn to 299); or you may attack him
with your sword (turn to 156).

126

The Brain Slayer’s disgusting tentacles flail frantic-
ally as it concentrates its mental power in an effort to
draw you towards it. Unable to resist, you walk ina
trance towards the hideous creature. You can only
watch helplessly as it wraps one of its tentacles
around your head. You feel weak and soon black
out as the Brain Slayer begins to feed on your
brainpower. Lose 2 SKILL points and 6 STAMINA
points. If you are stil] alive, turn to 213.

\ “
=} -
.
aa
<a
; :
‘hr =
£ Lot
:
«
. =
‘ Tr
8
"ke

e

127-130

127
Once again your sword fails to find its mark and the
dagger cuts into your sword arm. Lose 2 STAMINA
points and 1 skitu point. In desperation you hack
frantically at the three images that lunge at you with
daggers drawn. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 232. If you are Unlucky, turn to 361.

128
You are able to walk silently past the sleeping
Barbarian and continue up the gorge (turn to 319).

129
You are knocked unconscious by the blow to your
head. Already weakened by the Death Spell, the
injury is more than you can withstand. Your adven-
ture ends here.

130
You are now wearing a magic ring which has the
power to summon a warrior to your aid once only,
Add 1 Luck point. If you have not already done so,
you may either put on the gold ring (turn to 21) or
put on the silver ring (turn to 159). Alternatively,
you may walk through to the next tunnel (turn to

338).

131-133

131
Further along the bank you find a small wooden
boat tied to a tree. You look around but you cannot
see its owner. If you wish to take the boat and row
across the river, turn to 26. If you would rather wait
for its owner to arrive, turn to 289.

132
The dagger just misses the knob, bouncing off the
stone wall. If you have another dagger, turn to 16. If
you do not possess another dagger, turn to 393.

133

You thrust out your hands and luckily manage to
land on the floor without hurting yourself. As you
pick yourself up, you suddenly hear footsteps com-
ing from the depths of the cave. In the distance you
can see a swaying light and the vague outline of a
hunched, sinewy figure, who skulks slowly for-
ward. If you wish to see who is coming towards
you, turn to 37, If you would rather run out of the
Cave, turn to 355.

134-135

134
Your mind is completely controlled by the Snow
Witch and you find yourself obeying her command,
You drop the garlic and bare your neck in readiness
for her to drink your blood. You will be her servant
forever in the world of the undead.

me | OU avpeerespagyauag ie! We .

135

The tunnel ends at another door, an old piece of
parchment is pinned on it. There is faded writing on
the parchment, but you do not understand the
language. Knowing that elves speak many lan-
guages, you ask Redswift to try to read it. As he
reads, his eyes widen with terror. You ask him what
is wrong, but he refuses to reply. He rips the parch-
ment off the door and tears it into tiny pieces. He
turns the door handle and says, ‘Let's get going,
there is no time to lose.” You and Stubb look at each
other and shrug your shoulders, deciding simply to
obey the troubled Redswift. The door opens into
another tunnel. After walking down it for a few
metres, you come toa place where water is dripping
down continuously from stalactites overhead. If
you have a shield, turn to 230. If you do not possess
a shield, turn to 79.

136-139

136
You soon arrive at the fork in the tunnel that the
Mountain Elf mentioned and, deciding to take his
advice, you enter the tunnel to your right (turn to
106).

137
The tunnel ends quite soon at a T-junction. To your
left you can hear cries for help. If you wish to tum
left, turn to 311. If you wish to turn right, turn to
125,

138

The Snow Witch stares at you again before making
her choice. This time she calls out ‘Star!’ Terror
spreads across your face as you unfold your clench-
ed fist, revealing the star-shaped metal disc. The
Snow Witch laughs and another energy bolt shoots
out of her globe, It slams into your chest, killing you
instantly, Your adventure is over.

139
Intrigued by the open sarcophagus, you decide to
walk over to examine it (turn to 297).

140-142

140
The Goblins are well practised in the art of dagger-
throwing and both hit you, one in the shoulder and
one in the back of your thigh. Lose 4 STAMINA
points and 1 SKILL point. You stop briefly to pull the
daggers out and throw them back at the Goblins
before running painfully on (turn to 29).

141
A pouch on the Cave-man’‘s belt contains a star-
shaped metal disc which you decide to put in your
backpack. Not wishing to meet any more Cave-
men, you run along the tunnel to catch up with
Redswift and Stubb (turn to 365).

142

Ashis strong enough to keep hold of the rope bridge
with one hand and to grab you with his other hand
to stop you from being swept away downstream.
He manages to drag you up on to the far bank, but
the ordeal costs you 1 STAMINA point. Without
waiting for you to recover, he urges you to follow
him along the footpath which leads up the side of
the hill away from the bridge (turn to 85).

-

143-144

143
The followers are a group of Goblins, Orcs and

Neanderthals. There are too many of them for you
to overcome and you are soon captured. They drag
you over to a circle of ice, dyed blue, in which the
effigy stands, Amid wails and wild shouting, they
throw you into the blue circle. The effigy im-
mediately jerks its frozen limbs into motion - you
have unleashed the power of an ICE DEMON.

ICE DEMON

In addition to its normal attack, throw one die every
Attack Round for the jet of freezing gas that shoots
out from its nostrils. On a roll of 1, 2 or 3 the gas will
hityou and reduce yoursTaMINa by 1 point, but on
a roll of 4, 5 or 6 the gas will miss you. If you win,
turn to 184.

SKILL STAMINA 11

144
You ask the Centaurs if they saw any monsters
during their gallop north across the Pagan Plain.
Their leader looks at you sternly and says, ‘No.’
Seeing your wounds and bulging backpack, he asks
if you have just returned from a treasure hunt. If
you wish to reply that you have, turn to 272. If you
wish to reply that you were attacked by Dark Elves
crossing the River Kok and your backpack contains
merely their helmets and broken weapons, turn to
233.
1457146

145
You draw your sword and head down the tunnel.
Two GOBLINS with ugly faces run into view, both
wearing glowing metal collars round their necks.
They see you and advance, snarling, with daggers
drawn.

SKILL STAMINA
First GOBLIN 5 5
Second GOBLIN 5 4

Fight them one at a time in the narrow tunnel. If you
win, turn to 347.

14
The image of the bird fills your mind. While you are
still asleep, you sit up and shout the word ‘Phoenix’
at the top of your voice. You wake up startled,
wondering why itis dark. Then you realize that you
have been asleep for hours and that the sun will rise
atany moment. Adjusting your sun-mask, you turn
to face east, hardly daring to blink in case you miss
the first rays of sunshine. A red glow appears on the
horizon and then you see the sun slowly creep up
into view. You are cured of the Death Spell (turn to

400),

147-148

147
Before the writing fades away, you learn a spell

which will protect you against an attack by an Air
Elemental. Add 1 Luck point. You memorize the
words ’Gul Sang Abi Daar’; and then decide what to
do next. If you have not done so already, you may
either look inside the red pot (turn to 101) or leave
the cavern by the door opposite (tum to 176).

148
You step over the pieces of broken quartz that were
once the Crystal Warrior, and carry on along the
tunnel until it ends at a T-junction, If you wish to go
left, turn to 150. If you wish to go right, turn to 368.

149~151

149

You open your backpack and reluctantly pay the
man 50 Gold Pieces. Still smiling, he takes a jar
from a shelf and pours the contents into a pan of
soup which is simmering on an open fire in his
kitchen. He fills a bow! with his herbal remedy and
hands it to you, saying, ‘That should do the job. It
will take about an hour to work, soI suggest you go
and lie down in the sun by the river. You'll soon be
feeling much better.’ You gulp down the soup,
thank him curtly, and walk back down the footpath
to find a spot to rest (turn to 209).

150
The tunnel ends at a wooden door which opens
when you turn the handle. You walk into a massive
high-ceilinged chamber which ends in a wall of ice,
In the centre of the chamber is an open marble
sarcophagus with its lid propped up against its side.
A white rat suddenly jumps out of the sarcophagus
and runs towards you, It stops in front of you and
starts to grow and change shape. If you possess any
ground minotaur hom, turn to 52. If you do not,
turn to 223.

151
You are too weak to keep your head above the
surface, You are dragged under and breathe in some
water. Lose 2 STAMINA points, If you stil wish to
keep your backpack on, turn to 360. If you wish to
take it off, turn to 42.

1527153

152

The Snow Witch stares at you for a long time before
calling out ‘Circle.’ You exhale loudly and unfold
your clenched fist, revealing the circular metal disc.
The Snow Witch is angry and tells you that the rules
have changed, She now wins if the next result is a
draw as well. You curse her, but you have to choose
again. Will you:

Conceal the square disc? Turn to 270
Conceal the circular disc? Turn to 292
Conceal the star disc? Turn to 138

153
Your escape plan has failed and you are trapped
inside the mountain tunnels. You know it will not
be long before the Snow Witch’s guards discover
you and condemn you toa life of slavery. You have
failed in your mission.

154

154

You suddenly hear a woman howling terribly in the
depths of the cave. Her mournful wail rises to a
horrible, bitter scream. The Healer whispers to you
that the cries come from a BANSHEE, a hideous
spectre whose face and hands are shrivelled and
who only has one large nostril and a single tooth. He
tells you that if you walk by her without fear, you
will come to no harm. ‘Do not speak to her, touch
her or even acknowledge her presence. She cannot
harm you if you obey my instructions. I will be right
behind you, but do not worry about me,’ the Healer
says calmly, You walk further into the cave until the
dreaded Banshee comes into view, She looks even
worse than the Healer’s description with her red-
rimmed eyes and stooping posture. You try to re-
main calm but feel the blood racing through your
veins. She stands immediately in front of you as you
try to walk by, letting out the most doom-laden
howl you have ever heard in your life. You are
tempted to look into her face and cut her down with
your sword. If you have drunk the dragon's egg
concoction, turn to 5. If you have not drunk this
concoction, turn to 185
155-157

155

You look round and are relieved to see that Redswift
and Stubb have both dispensed with their adversar-
ies. You rummage quickly through the pouches on
the Goblins’ belts, but find only stale bread and
charcoal sticks. However, if your sword is broken,
you may take another one from the Goblins, Add 1
SKILL point. Despite the pain from your burns, you
tell Redswift and Stubb that you are ready to move
on. Leaning on Stubb, who always looks cheerful,
you manage to hobble down the tunnel (turn to
166).

156
The ugly man sneers as you draw your sword; he
rubs the prism, and suddenly three identical images
of himself appear. They walk towards you, each one
has a dagger raised in his right hand. Two of the
images must be illusions, but which will you strike

with your sword? Will you:
Strike the man to your left? Turn to 99
Strike the man in the middle? Turn to 307
Strike the man to your right? Turn to 232
157

The shaft is icy and it slips from your grip as you
release it. The spear misses the Yeti, plummeting
harmlessly into the snow. Turn to 378.

158-159

158
You breathe in and take a gulp of the green liquid.
Feeling no ill effects, you quickly finish it off. Slowly
the tiredness and pain in your body fade away and
you feel revitalized. You have drunk a Potion of
Health. Add 1 SKILL point, 4 sTAMINA points and 1
LUCK point. Turn to 273.

159

You are now wearing a ring which drains your life
force. Roll one die and deduct the number from
your SKILL score. Roll two dice and deduct the total
from your STAMINA score. If you are still alive, you
pull the cursed ring off your finger and crush it
beneath your foot. If you have not done so already,
you may either put on the gold ring (turn to 21) or
the copper ring (turn to 130). Alternatively, you may
walk through to the next tunnel (turn to 338).
160-163

160
The force of the Elemental picks you up and slams
you against the wall. Lose 1 SKILL point and 4
STAMINA points. If you have any dragon’s eggs in
your backpack, they are now broken and must be
crossed off your Equipment List. If you are still alive,
turn to 372.

161

You finally reach the end of the gorge and wonder
where to head next. The effect of the Death Spell is
accelerating —lose 2sTAMINA points, You are begin-
ning to lose hope of finding the Healer. If you wish
to continue walking east over the edge of the gorge,
turn to 302. If you would rather walk back down the
gorge, turn to 269.

=the fienipresseeaesa etic.

162
You nearly slip off a couple of the rocks, but manage
to reach the far bank safely (turn to 50).

163
You look up to see great cascades of snow tumbling
down the mountain. Fortunately the avalanche
sweeps down a ridge adjacent to the one you are
climbing (turn to 363).

164-167

164

You find a magnificent sword clenched in the hand
of one of the dead Trolls. You unbend its fingers and
take the finely crafted weapon. Its edge is keen and
without any effort you slice through a nearby
branch. Add 1 sxitt point, Redswift urges you to
= in case there are more Trolls nearby (turn to
38).

165
The key fits the lock and turns. Add 1 Lucx point.
You continue down the tunnel, turning right, and
$00n arrive at a crossroads, There are no signs of life
either from straight ahead or from the branch to
your right, but advancing towards you along the
left-hand branch is a strange humanoid (turn to 59).

166
After walking for another five minutes, the tunnel
turns sharply right and right again a few metres
further on. You soon arrive at a junction and after a
discussion you decide to turn left rather than con-
tinue straight on (turn to 259),

167
The Rattlesnake bites you on the leg just above the
tim of your boot. Before you can cut off its head it
empties the poison from its fangs into your leg. Lose
4 STAMINA points. Lf you are still alive, you drain off
the poison and limp up the gorge (turn to 252).
168-169

168

The footpath twists and turns through the trees
before ending outside a wooden hut. You creep up
to the hut and look through the window. An old
man wearing purple robes and a grey skull cap is
asleep in an ornately carved rocking-chair. The
shelves on the wall behind him are lined with jars of
herbs and berries. If you wish to enter the hut, turn
to 344. If you would rather walk back down the path
to continue up the valley, turn to 205,

169

Underneath an overhanging rock, you see a smal]
wooden hut built against the side of the mountain.
Its roof is piled high with snow and long icicles hang
down from the window ledges. You see a set of
deep footprints leading from the hut up the side of
the mountain. If you wish to enter the hut, tum to
36. If you would rather follow the footprints in the
snow, turn to 190,
170-171

170
You scramble up the side of the gorge to reach the
cave entrance, It is too dark to see inside and you do
not have a Jantern. If you wish to shout in the hope
that the Healer lives there, turn to 53. If you would
rather just enter the cave, turn to 246,

171
The guardian of the Snow Witch's treasure is dead
and you are free to help yourself to her riches,
although there is a limit to how much you can carry.
You decide to fill your backpack with Gold Pieces,
and you count 600 in all. However, for each 50 you
take, you will have to remove one item from your
backpack and leave it behind. Adjust your Equip-
ment List accordingly. Just as you finish filling your
backpack, you hear the sound of running feet com-
ing down the tunnel towards. the chamber. You
stand up and draw your sword, wondering if you
can survive much more hard combat. Two men
suddenly appear at the door, a Dwarf andan Elf, but
they do not look as though they are about to attack
you. They are smiling broadly and they both try to
speak at once, the Elf finally taking command. “You

172

have killed her! We are free! We will soon be able to
take off our obedience collars! Now we wish to
repay you, friend, by helping you to escape. You
cannot leave the caverns by the way you came,
because the Snow Witch's followers are waiting for
you, and the tunnels are alive with Goblins. Our
fellow Elves and Dwarfs are battling against them
now, to give you time to flee - we must waste no
more time.’ To your surprise the Elf walks straight
towards the cavern wall opposite the door, and
appears to pass right through it. ‘Another of the
Snow Witch's illusions,’ comments the Dwarf, ‘an
escape route she never got the chance to use. The
trouble is, we've never used it either.’ The Dwarf
laughs to himself and walks towards the wall, you
following behind. Walking through the illusion you
find yourself in a narrow torchlit tannel which you
walk down in single file, It soon ends at a junction
and you discuss which way to turn. If you wish to
turn left, turn to 61. If you would rather turn right,
turn to 388,

172
Ignoring a dark cave entrance at the fout of the
mountain, you begin the difficult climb up the steep
face, You suddenly slip and fall when a piece of rock
comes away in your hand. Test your Luck. Lf you are
Lucky, turn to 284. If you are Unlucky, you will
plunge to your death down the side of Firetop
Mountain.
173-175

173

It is not long before Stubb returns, laden with nuts,
roots, greens and a fat rabbit. Using a pan he found
in the bottom of the boat, he sets about making a
delicious stew, while Redswift brags about his fight
with the Dark Elf, Soon you are all enjoying the
nourishing meal, telling each other stories and put-
ting the terrible memories of the Snow Witch out of
your minds. Add 4 STAMINA points. Later you
climb into the Dark Elf‘s boat and push off from the
bank. It does not take long to reach the other side
and you set off south across the Pagan Plain for
Stonebridge (turn to 278).

174
You are tempted to turn round and walk back to Big
Jim Sun’s caravan - but your reputation is at stake,
and you have no choice but to carry on with the grim
trek up the mountainside (turn to 169).

175
Ash fires a perfect shot: his arrow pierces the head
of the diving Death Hawk. Its wings stop beating
and it crashes into the side of the hill. The other side
of the hill slopes down into a gorge and Ash tells
you that you must now journey alone to meet the
Healer. He tells you to walk east up the gorge until
you see the head of a phoenix carved in the rock,
The Healer lives in a cave in the side of the hill above

176-179

the carved rock. You thank Ash for his help and
walk slowly down the hill into the gorge. At the
bottom you follow Ash’‘s instructions and turn left
up the gorge (turn to 252).

176

The door opens into yet another tunnel and you
begin to wonder whether you will ever find your
way out of the caverns of the Snow Witch. You look
at Redswift and Stubb, but they do not appear to be
very concerned. The tunnel soon ends at another
door and you notice a dagger sticking out of its oak
panelling. If you wish to pull the dagger out of the
door, turn to 55. If you would rather open the door,
turn to 285.

477
Pulling the dart from your arm, you flee from the
followers and run into the tunnel (turn to 137).

178
You fall to the ground, hitting your head ona rock.
If you are wearing a helmet, turn to 324. If you are
not wearing a helmet, turn to 129.

179
The Gnome does not want to end up like the Nean-

derthal and runs out of the cave shouting for help. If
you wish to search through the cupboards and risk
the Gnome returning with reinforcements, turn to
194. If you would rather leave the cave immediately,
turning left into the tunnel, turn to 198.

180-184 .

180
The thundering noise of galloping hooves grows
louder and four CENTAURS come into view. Each
one is armed with a bow and quiver of arrows. They
stop almost at once in a line before you, keen-eyed
and ready for any move on your part. Their leader is
obviously the one with the ugly blue scar running
down his face and chest, as he is also proudly
carrying a spear and a shield, and wearing a homed
helmet. If you wish to offer to pay them to take you
to Stonebridge, turn to 329. If you would rather just
talk to them briefly and be on your way, turn to 144.

181
Before you can scramble on to the far bank, the
bridge collapses under you and crashes into the
river, Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 142. If
you are Unlucky, turn to 277.

~S ‘ fy
is
+ .
. rs
: yes —
We -
Y/
4}

SASS

Th

»

ot | Sea Fn sinieteRrues nt oe

182
You walk over to the broken chest and examine its
contents: three ornate rings and a cracked bottle
which emits a sweet odour. If you wish to try on any
of the rings, tum to 65. If you would rather walk
through to the next tunnel, turn to 338,

183

As soon as you touch the shield, a howling wind
starts to blow down the tunnel towards you, almost
knocking the three of you off your feet. Then you
see a whirlwind coming down the tunnel, gathering
up all rocks and stones in its path, If the words ‘Gul
Sang Abi Daar’ mean anything to you, turn to 253. If
they mean nothing to you, turn to 66.

184-185

184
The Ice Demon crashes to the floor in a pile of
broken ice. The Snow Witch's followers fall back in
terror, afraid that you might now possess the De-
mon’s powers. Add 1 tuck point. Unchallenged,
you are able to leave the cave by the tunnel exit (turn

to 137).

185
Between her screams the Banshee tells you that you
are going to die, You are unable to resist the tempta-
tion to draw your sword and silence her.

BANSHEE SKILL 12

Before each Attack Round, you must roll two dice. If
the total is the same or less than your SKILL, you will
not be paralysed by fear and you will be able to
fight. If the total is greater than your SKILL score,
you will automatically lose that Attack Round. If
you win, turn to 19,

STAMINA 12

186-187

186
The energy bolt which hits you gives your system a
terrible shock. You are knocked to the ground by its
force. Lose 1 SKILL point and 4 STAMINA points. If
you are still alive, turn to 98.

DP GA TTT TIT ENS Tt ea Y ns

As you draw your sword, the Gnome yells an order
to the dull-witted NEANDERTHAL, telling him to
kill you. The Neanderthal grunts and stands up,
pushing the table away from him. He picks up a
carving knife and a stool as a shield and lumbers
forward to attack.

NEANDERTHAL - SKILL7 STAMINA 8
If you win, turn to 179.

188—189

188

Neither of the Goblins releases the rope and both
tumble headlong into the pit. Only one of the two
picks himself up, the other remaining face down on
the ice floor, With blood streaming from his nose,
the angry Goblin pulls a dagger from his belt and
tries to stab you. In the confined space of the pit,
you must defend yourself with your bare hands,

GOBLIN SKILL 5 STAMINA 4

During each round of combat, you must reduce
your Attack Strength by 3 as you are without your
sword. If you win, turn to 366.

189
The Brain Slayer’s disgusting tentacles flail frantical-
ly as it tries to draw you towards it. Fortunately the
amulet gives you the courage to resist its attempt to
hypnotize you. You draw your sword to attack the
foul creature. It releases Redswift and Stubb who
fall to the floor clutching their heads in agony.

BRAIN SLAYER SKILL 10

If you win, turn to 309.

STAMINA 10
190192

190

The high altitude and thin atmosphere make you
pant for breath as you continue your steady climb.
Lose 1 STAMINA point. Suddenly you hear the cry of
a human voice followed by a ferocious roar. Not far
ahead you see a fur trapper fighting for his life
against a gigantic bear-like beast with long white fur
and sharp teeth protruding from its jaws. It is the
killer beast that you have been hunting — the abom-
inable YETI. You watch the unfortunate trapper
being gashed by the Yeti’s claws and falling face
down in the snow. Incensed by the vicious attack,
you scream at the Yeti and run through the snow to
attack it (turn to 77).

191

You are so weak that the effort of trying to haul
yourself up the vine is too much for you. You lose
yuur grip and fal] headlong ten metres down on to
the dirt floor and land on a pile of bones. Unable to
move and semi-conscious, you feel helpless as hun-
dreds of Flesh Grubs crawl on to you to begin their
feast. Your adventure ends here.

192

As you are about to leave the hut, you catch sight of
some weapons lying under the bed. If you wish to
take a couple of them with you, turn to 255. Ifyou do
not wish to be encumbered by the additional weight
and would rather leave without the weapons, turn
to 263.
193~195

193
You quickly dive on to the floor and watch the
energy bolt pass overhead and slam into the cavern
wall behind you (turn to 336),

194

The cupboards are full of pots, pans, bowls and
spoons. One cupboard is locked and you have to
prise it open with your sword. It contains the
Gnome’s personal possessions — a silver flute, a
runeé-carved wooden stick painted with blue and
yellow hoops, an old withered rose and an old
leather-bound book entitled ‘The Secrets of Toads’,
Will you:

Blow the flute? Turn to 74
Read the runes on the stick? Turn to 345
Smell the rose? Turn to 317
Read the book? Turn to 356
Leave the possessions and turn

left back into the tunnel? Turn to 198

195
Your hand is too numb and painful for you to grip
the spear. You curse and hurl it into the snow,
drawing your sword with your other hand to fight
the hage white beast,

YETI SKILL 11

If you win, turn to 67.

STAMINA 12

196-197

196
Stubb draws the short straw and reaches for the
handle, cursing his luck. As soon as he touches it, it
comes alive. An ASP curls itself around his hand,
and before he can shake it off, it sinks its poisonous
fangs into his wrist. He falls on to his knees clutch-
ing his wrist with his other hand. Redswift quickly
draws off the poison with his knife: luckily the
Dwarf has a strong constitution, and he soon recov-
ers enough strength to continue (turn to 20).

197

You fall headlong down the crevasse, landing
heavily on an icy ledge some ten metres below. Roll
1 die. Deduct this number from your current $TAMI-
NA score. Using your sword, you cut hand- and
toe-holds into the side of the crevasse and haul
yourself up. Plodding your way through the thick
snow, you continue your quest (turn to 212),

198-199
198

In the distance you hear chanting voices; before
long the tunnel ends at the entrance to a large
cavern. Kneeling down before an ice effigy in the
shape of a demon, their hooded faces pressed to the
ice floor in worship, are ten of the Snow Witch’s
followers. There are two exits from the cave, one to
your left and one to your right. If you are wearing a
cloak, turn to 384. If you are not wearing a cloak,
turn to 260.

199
After the ordeal with the Werewolf you cannot
settle down to sleep again. You are pleased when
Stubb completes the second watch and asks you to
take over. The rest of the night passes peacefully
and in the morning you are able to continue your
journey to Stonebridge (turn to 13).

=e lcegurarseyaniiaisl lt.

200-202

200

The Zombie was probably in charge of the store-
room that the door opens into. Jars and bottles of
various shapes and sizes line the walls and many
boxes and barrels are stacked up on the floor. You
search quickly through them and find little of in-
terest except for a jar of ground minofaur horn,
some garlic, a box full of teeth, a jar of pickled
lizards’ tails and four large dragon eggs. As you will
not be able to fit everything into your backpack, you
may only take three of the items. Leaving the room,
you walk back to the junction and head straight on
down the tunnel (turn to 150).

201

You see an overhanging branch and just manage to
grab it with one hand. If you are carrying a shield,
you will have to let it drop into the river (lose 1 SKILL
point) so that you can haul yourself out. Summon-
ing all yourremaining strength, you manage to pull
yourself up on to the south bank of the river, You
feel totally exhausted. Lose 2 STAMINA points. You
curse the Snow Witch and set off east, back towards
the place where the fire was burning (turn to 50).

202

You step past the still badies of the Wolves and
continue your journey through the swirling snow,
The climb becomes steeper and the going is slow.
Turn to 337.

203-204

203

Stubb draws the short straw and chuckles With
pleasure. He kicks off his old boots and eagerly puts
on the magical elfin boots. To test them out, he
jumps up and down on the stone floor, and makes
no noise when he lands. Impatient to walk in his
new boots, he heads off along the tunnel svith you
and Redswift following (turn fo 20).

204

The Elf slumps on to the floor and pulls back his
hood. You see a metal collar around his neck, glow-
ing in the semi-darkness. ‘Obedience collar,’ he
stammers in pain. ‘Makes us do whatever she
wishes. If I die it will lose its energy but she will
know and send others to investigate. Elves, even we
Mountain Elves, would not serve that vile witch of
our own free will. Kill her and free us. I bear you no
grudge for attacking me, for you knew no better,
Take my cloak to disguise yourself and follow this
tunnel to where it branches. Take the right-hand
fork. Now I must rest.’ You put the Elf’s cloak round
your shoulders and make him as comfortable as you
can. You shake his hand and run off down the
tunnel (turn to 136).
205-206

205
You spot a small open space between the rocks and
trees on the far bank of the river. Something is
cooking over a fire, you can see the smoke rising;
but there is no one to be seen — perhaps they saw
you first and are hiding. The river runs fast and is
quite narrow at this point. Large rocks jut out of the
river and it would be possible to cross over by
leaping from rock to rock. If you wish to cross, turn
to 268. If you would rather keep on walking up the
river valley, turn to 115.

206

The Healer looks concerned and says, ‘Then you
have no alternative, you must walk to Firetop
Mountain and climb it alone. This is where we say
goodbye. Good luck, I hope you make it.’ You shake
the Healer’s hand, thanking him for his help. Then,
waving goodbye, you squeeze through the crack
into the daylight. Knowing that the effect of the
Death Spell has been temporarily halted, you jour-
ney north at a fast pace. You are quite close to the
foot of the mountain when an ugly creature jumps
out from behind a rock to challenge you. It is a
HOBGOBLIN and you must fight it.

HOBGOBLIN SKILL 6 STAMINA 7

If you win, turn to 172.

207

The tunnel soon turns sharply left, As you turn the
comer you see something on the floor, sparkling in
the dim light. You bend down and pick up a circular
metal disc. Hoping that it might be useful, you put it
in your pocket. It’s not long before the tunnel turns
sharply left again and you soon arrive at a junction,
After some discussion, you decide to turn right
rather than continue straight on (turn to 259).

208
As the Mountain Elf slumps on to the floor, his
Strange metal collar stops glowing. You wonder
what is happening and decide to hurry down the
tunnel (turn to 247).

209

Feeling ill, you lie down in the sun and soon fall
asleep. You wake up an hour later but you do not
feel any better ~ in fact, you feel worse. You realize
that the man who sold you the herbs was not the
Healer, but an opportunist sham. The hour you
have wasted waiting for the fake remedy to work
has cost you dearly. Lose 3 STaMINa points. If you
wish to go back to the herbalist’s hut, turn to 27. If
you would rather not waste any more time and
continue up the river valley, turn to 205.

210-211

210
The Snow Witch recoils from the garlic, giving you
time to think. You know that a Vampire can only be
killed by driving a stake through its heart. If you
possess a carved rune stick, turn to 34. If not, turn to
10.

211

Stubb’s desire for revenge spurs him on and he
quickly defeats two of the Hill Trolls, and then helps
Redswift dispatch the remaining two, He does not
stop to search through the Trolls’ belongings, but
heads straight for Stonebridge. You follow him into
the village where he is greeted by all his old friends.
However, you soon discover that an air of gloom
hangs over the Dwarfs. Even though they know that
the Hill Trolls are gathering to attack their village,
they have lost their will to defend themselves since
their fabled war-hammer was stolen from King Gil-
libran. Stubb is concerned by their loss of morale

and takes you to-the inn to meet his friend Bigleg.
He learns from Bigleg that an eagle took the war-
hammer but dropped it over Darkwood Forest.
‘Then we must find it. Bigleg, we must leave im-
mediately,’ says Stubb, forgetting his own troubles.
He stands up and extends his hand to you, saying,
‘Well, friends, I’m sorry, but I will not be able to offer
you our hospitality after all. | hope you under-
stand.’ He walks out of the inn with Bigleg and that
is the last that you see of the jolly old Dwarf.
Redswift sighs and suggests that the two of you
leave for Moonstone Hills straight away. Besides, he
says, he has something important to tell you and in
a Way it is fortunate that Stubb will not be around to
hear what he has to say. Intrigued by Redswift’s
words, you leave Stonebridge, heading east along
the bank of Red River, While keeping a lookout for
Hill Troll patrols, you cannot help wondering what
itis that Redswift has to tell you. Hidden among the
trees to your left, Redswift suddenly spots three Hill
Trolls sharpening their weapons on a stone. Test
your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 218. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 296.

212-213

212
The wind starts to how], blowing gusts of snow into
your face. You put your head down and stride into
it, Above the how! of the wind you suddenly be-
come aware of another sound — the howling of
ea aA wolves. You draw your sword while trying to peer
TER | AP : ” ale through the snow. As if out of nowhere, two
SNOW WOLVES appear in front of you, hunched
ready to pounce. They are completely white except
for their blood-red eyes. Suddenly one leaps at you.
Fight them one ata time.

. 22 ere . - x t
TuLLA | i ry ae
ee

HA

ee 2
¥

STAMINA SKILL
First SNOW WOLF 7 8
Second SNOW WOLF 7 7

If you win, tur to 202.

213
You wake to find Redswift and Stubb lying uncon-
scious on the floor. There is no sign of the Brain
Slayer. You groan as you try to sit up, the pain in
your head is almost unbearable. Your two compan-
ions eventually come round, they are obviously
suffering too. They explain that the Brain Slayer
drew them into the cavern and they were powerless
to resist. You examine the chamber and see another
door opposite in the far wall. There are also two clay
pots in a recess in the wall, one red and one grey.

Will you:
Open the door? Turn to 176
Look inside the red pot? Turn to 101
Look inside the grey pot? Turn to 344
214-216

214

As soon as you step into the tunnel, an iron grille
drops down behind you, barring your retreat. The
man laughs out loud and says, ‘You were foolish to
think you could trick me so easily when all the world
can see you are not wearing your obedience collar.
Now, intruder, you are trapped.’ There is nothing
you can do but find out what lies at the end of the
tunnel (turn to 323).

215
The tunnel opens out into a small cavern which is
empty apart from a brass bow! resting on top of an
ice plinth. The bos] contains a yellow liquid and a
wooden ladle, If you wish to drink some of the
liquid, turn to 24. If you would rather walk back out
of the cavern without drinking the liquid, turn to 56.

216
You quickly load your sling and aim at the globe.
Roll two dice, If the total is the same or less than
your SKILL, turn to 282. If the total is greater than
your SKILL, turn to 375.

*17

217

The red leaves all around you emit a sweet smell
which you find very pleasant. You feel very relaxed
and suddenly have trouble keeping your eyes open,
even though it is only early evening. You are una-
ware that you are lying on SLEEPING GRASS. You
sink into a deep sleep, full of vivid and exciting
dreams, Night falls and time passes by, but you
cannot wake up. The moon drifts slowly across the
clear night sky until dawn is only minutes away. A
tiny image disturbs your dreams but it is difficult to
make out; it grows steadily larger, until the flashing
image fills your mind. A bird with a long beak and
fine plumage is trying to fly out of a circle of flames.
The Healer is trying to wake you. If you can focus
your mind and remember the name of this bird,
which is the symbol of the Healer’s power, your
dreams will end and you will be able to rouse
yourself. If you believe the bird to be a Phoenix, turn
to 146. If you believe the bird to be a Griffin, turn to
228.

’
diaigurerssa

218-220

218
The Hill Trolls do not see you and you are able to slip
by them unnoticed (turn to 38).

219
The spear flies through the air and thuds into the
Yeti’s shaggy chest. It roars in pain but does not fall.
You quickly draw your sword to fight the enraged
beast.

YETI SKILL 10
If you win, turn to 67.

STAMINA g

Stepping carefully between thé footprints, you ex-
pect something sinister to happen at any moment.
However, nothing happens until Stubb sneezes
loudly and startles you. Roll die. If you rolla 1 or2,
turn to 94. If you rolla3 or 4, turn to 326. Ifyou rolla
5 or 6, turn to 107.

221-222

221

The tunnel turns sharply to the right at the entrance
to another cave, from which you can hear a stringed
instrument playing gentle music. Your view into the
cave is partially blocked by an old tattered animal
skin hanging down over the entrance, but you can
see the lower torso of a man wearing green and
purple hose and pointed red slippers. If you wish to
throw back the animal skin and enter the cave, turn
to 303. If you would rather keep walking along the
tunnel, turn to 111.

222
You manage to haul yourself out of the hollow tree,
but some Flesh Grubs are clinging to your body. Roll
1 die to determine how many are buried in your
flesh and deduct 1 sTAMINA point for each. If you
are still alive, turn to 242.

Sy

t
,

“wy
Uy

G

223-224

223

The creature soon towers above you and develops a
rough white reptilian skin. Its neck extends to sup-
port a giant head with smoking nostrils, and wings
protrude from its back. Before you stands an ancient
WHITE DRAGON. If you are wearing a copper
ring, turn to 313. If not, you must fight the mighty
beast as you stand.

WHITE DRAGON SKILL 12 STAMINA 14

In addition to its normal attack, throw one die every
attack round for its freezing cold breath. Unless you
are wearing a gold ring, a roll of 1 or 2 will reduce
your STAMINA score by a further 2 points. A roll of
3~6 will mean the icy blast misses you. If you win,
turn to 139.

224
As soon as you begin reading the scroll, the writing
Starts to fade. Roll two dice. If the total is the same or
Jess than your SKILL, turn to 147. If the total is
greater than your SKILL, turn to 396.

2257227

225
The blizzard has affected you badly. Your sword-
hand is frostbitten and you are very weak, You will
now have to use your other arm to fight. Lose 3
SKILL points and 4 STAMINA points. If you are still
alive, turn to 174,

226
Both the dart and the whip fail to find their mark
and you are able to run through the tunnel (turn to

137).

227

The Dark EIf is an excellent shot. The arrow thuds
into your shoulder and you let out a painful cry.
Lose 2 STAMINA points. Stubb quickly takes hold of
the oars and continues to row the boat towards the
far bank. However, you are still within the range of
the Dark Elf’s arrows. You watch him pick another
arrow and fire again. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 32, if you are Unlucky, turn to 239.

228-229

228

The image of the bird starts to fade as vivid dreams
fill your mind again. You have failed to recognize
the fabled bird that the Healer so admires, and he no
longer thinks you are worthy of his help. When
dawn breaks you are still fast asleep, your oppor-
tunity to break the Death Spell has gone. It is the
beginning of a beautiful day, but one that you will
never see. Firetop Mountain has provided more
food for its hungry vultures.

229

The temperature is well below freezing point and
the howling blizzard chills you to the bone. You
Struggle to walk through the snowstorm, but it
drains your energy. Lose 2 STAMINA points. If you
still wish to walk through the blizzard, turn to 387. If
you would rather dig yourself a shelter in the snow
with your sword, turn to 281.

230-231

230
The water looks harmless enough, but you do not
wish to get cold and wet. You place the shield over
your head and walk under the gentle waterfall. You
throw the shield back for your companions to use,
and you are soon on your way again (turn to 339).

231
By the time you reach the top of the hill, you are
panting heavily, Lose 1 STAMINA point. Feeling
exhausted, you stand and look around you. The hill
slopes down into a gorge which runs east to west.
You walk slowly down the hill into the gorge and
turn left. After walking for a while, you see the
entrance to a cave half-way up the left-hand side of
the gorge. If you wish to climb up to the cave, turn to
170. If you would rather keep on walking up the
gorge, turn to 377-

232-234

232

The Illusionist screams in pain as your sword cuts
into his side. He drops to the floor as his other two
images fade away. As you step over him, hestarts to
laugh and stands up, his wound completely healed.
If you wish to thrust your sword at him again, turn
to 261. If you wish to try to smash his prism, turn to
72.

233
The leader slowly nods his head. He believes your
story and signals to the group to move on, You
watch them gallop away, and, relieved at their
departure, you march off together towards
Stonebridge (turn to 278).

2
You aim carefully between the iron bars and throw
your dagger at the wooden knob. Test your Luck. If

you are Lucky, turn to 120. If you are Unlucky, turn
to 132.

235-237

235
You see frozen into the ice wall an ornate trunk

open and filled with gold and jewels. You hack
away at the ice until you reach the trunk. A golden
idol is the first thing you pick up, but suddenly it
bursts out of your hands and changes into a golden
warrior —a SENTINEL left to guard the treasure.

SENTINEL SKILL STAMINAQ

If you win, turn to 171,

236

Despite straining with all their might, your friends
are unable to force your hand against the door. The
dagger’s power makes your hand tum again and
this time you plunge the blade into your side, Lose 1
SKILL point and 4 STAMINA points. If you are still
alive, your friends try again to force the dagger into
the door, Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn ta 6,
If you are Unlucky, turn to 35.

237

Gripping the hilt firmly, you tug hard at the sword.
it comes free with surprising ease, You have chosen
the Sword of Speed, analmost weightless yet strong
and sharp sword. Add 1 sx:L1 point. If you wish to
rummage through the Orc’s backpack, turn to 354.
If you wish to walk directly through to the tunnel
opposite, turn to 221,

ante
. iilety, 4 r =

—-.
” nae
7

238-239

238
Ash’s arrow just misses the diving Death Hawk.
Before he is able to fire again, the Death Hawk
attacks you.

DEATH HAWK SKILL 4

If you manage to survive two Attack Rounds, turn
to 105,

STAMINA 5

239

Even at long range the Dark Elf is an accurate
bowman. His arrow sinks painfully into your thigh.
Lose 25TAMINA points. With Stubb rowing furious-
ly, you at last reach the far bank before the Dark Elf
has time to fire again. You jump out of the boat,
gesture at the Dark Elf and set off south across the
Pagan Plain towards Stonebridge (turn to 278).

240-241

240
You just manage to jump out of the way of the
plunging dagger. You stand, feet apart, ready to
fight the enraged Goblin with your bare hands.

GOBLIN SKILL 5

During each round of combat you must reduce your
Attack Strength by 3, because you are without your
sword. If you win, turn to 43.

STAMINA 5

241
The tunnel forks and you must decide quickly
which way to go. You can hear the sound of running
feet coming down the branch to your right. If you
wish to run down the left branch, turn to 321. If you
would rather head down the right branch to face
whoever is coming towards you, turn to 145.

8 —
242-244

242
You pull the hideous Grubs out of your flesh and
crush them underfoot. Realizing that the Healer
obviously does not live in the hollow tree, you
continue to walk up the river valley (turn to 119).

243
You wait until the Frost Giant has his back to you

and then run through his lair. You reach the next
tunnel before the slow-moving Giant realizes what
is happening, but you do not stop running (turn to

338).

244
Just before your sword hits the globe, a bolt of white
light shoots out, trapping your blade. A searing
pain rushes up your arm and the image of the Snow
Witch laughs at your unsuccessful attempt to defeat
her, You are unable to release your grip on the
handle, and drop to your knees as the intensity of
the charge increases. You black out and do not wake
again. Your adventure ends here,

——

245-248

245
Both the daggers miss you, flying past on either side
of your head. Add 1Lucx point. Yourunon without
stopping to look back (turn to 29).

246
Inside the cave it is so dark that you can hardly see
your hand in front of your face. As you walk on
blindly, you stumble and trip. Test your Luck. Lf you
are Lucky, turn to 133. If you are Unlucky, turn to

178.

247
You break the loaf in two and, to your surprise, find
an iron key in its centre. Add 1 LUcK point. You put
the key in your pocket, change your mind about
eating the loaf and walk into the tunnel opposite
(turn to 221).

248

You regain consciousness to find Redswift and
Stubb attending to your burns. ‘I don’t like to say L
told you so,’ Redswift says sarcastically. You try to
walk but the pain is too severe. ‘We'll have to rest
here,’ says Stubb, looking concerned, “but it won't
be long before the Snow Witch’s Goblins find us.’
There is nothing you can do but lie down again. Test
your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 28. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 332.

249-251

249
Gripping the shaft tightly, you pull back your arm
and hurl the spear at the snarling Yeti. Roll one die.
If you roll a 1, turn to 157. If you roll a 2 or greater,
turn to 219.

250
Gripping the shaft of the spear firmly in your hands,
you tug as hard as you can. The spear does not come
free and your mind becomes filled with horrific
images, making you scream out in terror. You re-
lease the spear; but the images remain, affecting
your mind. Lose 1 SKILL point. If you wish to
rummage through the Orc’s backpack, turn to 354.
If you wish to walk directly through to the tunnel
opposite, turn to 221.

251
You have been asleep for only two hours when an
eerie howl pierces the night air, waking you up. You
see Redswift immediately stoke up the fire and
Stubb run to his side, ready for battle. Suddenly you
hear a twig snap behind you and you turn round to
see a large beast about to leap on you. Its long hair
and sharp teeth glisten in the firelight, and you
realize itisa WEREWOLF, You must fight it.

WEREWOLF

If you win, turn to 199.

SKILL8 STAMINA 10

2527-253

252
You see a rope-ladder hanging down from one of
the trees on the left side of the gorge. Looking up,
you can just make out the frame of a wooden hut,
almost hidden among the branches. If you wish to
climb up the ladder to the tree-house, turn to 398. If
you would rather continue up the gorge, turn to g2.

253

Taking the shield has unleashed the fury of an AIR
ELEMENTAL. Fortunately you remember the
words on the scroll and utter them as the Elemental
draws near. It disappears as quickly as it appeared,
and allis calm again, You sling the shield on to your
arm (add 1 Skrtu point) and walk together back
down the tunnel and past the last junction (turn to
135).
254-256

254

You groan with pain and try to stand up. Looking
up to see how far you have fallen, you are dismayed
to see two ugly faces staring down at you. A rope is
thrown down to you and you are ordered to throw
your sword up to the GOBLINS before climbing up
the rope, You are trapped in the pit and reluctantly
comply with their orders. As you are about to climb,
you notice that both the Goblins are holding the
rope. If you wish to climb up, turn to 276. If you
wish to pull hard on the rope in an attempt to pull
them down into the pit, turn to 314,

255
You take a war-hammer and a spear before leaving
the hut (turn to 263).

256
You just manage to draw your sword in time to
defend yourself against the diving Bird-man. It
veers away slightly but turns to attack again.

BIRD-MAN SKILL 12 STAMINA §

If you win, turn to 28.

EEE SIISS=Se EE ii

257-258

257
You roll down the mountain but the avalanche soon
runs out of momentum in a gully. Luckily, you are
not buried in the snow and find yourself dazed but
able to sit up. Lose 1 SKILL point. Still feeling dizzy,
you stand up and start your climb again (turn to

363).

258

The Healer walks over to you and puts his hands on
your forehead. He mutters some strange words and
stands back, saying, ‘Later stages of the reversal
process are also dangerous, but the danger can be
reduced if you possess certain things. My help from
now on will be limited as you will have to journey to
another place to break the Death Spell completely,
Please follow me.‘ The Healer walks further into the
cave leading you to the edge ofa pit. There is almost
no light and you have to strain your eyes to see the
outline of the Healer moving about. ‘A log spans the
pit before you and you must cross it to reach the
inner cave. It will obviously be easier to cross it if
you can see where you are going. Do you have a
candle?’ asks the Healer, If you possess a candle and
tinder-box, turn to 54. If you do not possess these
items, turn to 343.

259-261

259
Placed against the left-hand wall of the tunnel, you
see a large iron casket with a brass handle in the
shape of a serpent. No one yolunteers to open the
casket, so you decide to draw lots. Roll 1 die. If you
rolla 1 or 2, turn to 73. If you roll a3 or 4, turn to196.
[f you roll a 5 or 6, turn to 353.

260
You breathe in deeply and walk casually through
the cavern towards the tunnel to your right (turn to
379).

261

The Illusionist makes no attempt to block your
sword as it cuts down through the air. Your sword,
instead of striking the Illusionist, hits an invisible
barrier and shatters, leaving you with the hilt and a
short broken blade. Lose 1 Luck point and 1 SKILL
point. There is nothing you can do except try to grab
his probable source of power — the prism, Turn to
72.

262

262

As you try to stand up, the Snow Witch concen-
trates her powers on Redswift and Stubb. Their
metal collars tighten and they both clutch their
throats as if gasping for breath. You struggle to your
feet, yelling insults at the Snow Witch, mocking her
cowardly way of dealing with defenceless slaves.
You challenge her to a combat, of whatever type she
wishes. She laughs, saying, ‘Even though I have
beaten you, I enjoy games. | will play!’ She releases
her stranglehold on Redswift and Stubb and falls
silent, obviously devising some fiendish contest.
Suddenly you hear the sound of shuffling footsteps
coming from the tunnel opposite. An Elf and a
Dwarf enter the cavern: they look almost identical to
Kedswift and Stubb except that their vacant looks
and putrid white flesh indicate that they are both
ZOMBIES. The Snow Witch tells you to fight them
while she invents a game for you to play, The
Zombies lumber forward and you are forced to fight
the terrible replicas of your friends.

SKILL STAMINA
DWARF ZOMBIE 8 9
ELF ZOMBIE 9 9

mm) \\ Fight both the Zombies at the same time. Each will
oi}) \ \ have a separate attack on you during each Attack
Hl
(i

‘
;

Vy Round, but you must choose which of the two you
eS at will fight. Attack your nominated target as in a
Vii i normal battle. Against the other, you will throw for
FY) Wo. Wht your Attack Strength in the normal way, but you
will not wound it if your Attack Strength is greater;

he

263-264

you must count this as though you have just parried
its blow. Of course, if its Attack Strength is greater,
it will have wounded you in the normal way. If you
win, turn to 23.

= at rea) » a‘)

et Suequernes.

263
Outside again in the deep snow, you set off on your
trek up the mountainside, following the footprints
in the snow (turn to 190).

264
The Mountain Elf looks at you and smiles, ‘Now
you're talking,’ he says. ‘Kill her and free us. Here,
take my cloak to disguise yourself and follow this
tunnel until it branches. Take the right-hand fork.
Good luck.’ You shake the Elf’s hand and run off
down the tunnel (turn to 136).

265-268

265
Redswift draws the short straw and smiles. He kicks
off his old boots and puts on the magical elfin boots.
He strides off down the corridor making not the
slightest sound. You and Stubb are forced to follow
him, feeling more than a little jealous (turn to 20).

266
As soon as you step into the tunnel, an iron grille
drops down behind you, barring your retreat. It is
impossible to lift and there is nothing you can do but
find out what lies at the end of the tunnel (turn to

323).

267
You wait until the Gnome and the Neanderthal look
away, before running past the cave opening and on
down the tunnel (turn to 198).

268
The rocks are slippery and far apart. In your present
condition, you find it difficult to jump from rock to
rock. Roll 1 die. If you roll a 1, 2 or 3, turn to 124. If
you roll a 4, 5 or 6, turn to 162.

269-270

269
You soon arrive back at the carved rock slab and
decide to climb up the stone steps that lead to the
cave (tum to75).

270
‘The Snow Witch stares at you again before making
hher choice. This time she calls out ‘Star.’ Terror
‘spreads across your face as you unfold your clench-
ced fist, revealing the square metal disc. The Snow
Witch laughs and another energy bolt shoots out
from her globe. Itslams into your chest, killing you
instantly. Your adventure is over,

area

a7
‘The Healer shakes his head and warns you that the
next stage is going to be very difficult for you. He
then ells you fo walk ahead of him (turn to 354).

ap
‘The Centaur suddenly rears and charges forward,
thrusting his spear at you. The other Centaurs,
follow his lead and charge at Redswift and Stubb.
‘You have to react quickly to defend yourself against
the Centaur bandit

‘CENTAUR

Ifyou win, turn 8076

SKILL 0 STAMINA 30
273-274

273
You just manage to scramble up on to the far bank as
the bridge crashes down into the river. Ash urges
you to follow him as quickly as possible along the
footpath which leads up the side of the hill away
from the bridge (turn to 85).

274

The Mountain Elf looks at you in disbelief and says,
‘Nobody of good heart would wish to join the Snow
Witch. f am only here because of this!’ Throwing
back his hood, the Elf reveals a metal collar around
his neck which glows in the semi-darkness. ‘Only
the obedience collar makes me serve her,’ he con-
tinues in a dour voice. If you wish to reiterate your
desire to join the Snow Witch, turn to 22. If you
would rather change your story and tell the Elf that
you intend to slay her, turn to 264.

275-277

2
Determined to discover the secret of the orb, you
hold itin your outstretched hands. Its warmth starts
to creep up your arms and soon you are glowing all
over, and feeling warmer than you have been for
weeks. Add 3 STAMINA points and 1 LucK point.
You assure Redswift and Stubb that this orb of
energy will warm them too and they nervously pass
it between them. In good spirits, you place the orb
back on the floor and continue down the tunnel
(turn to 166),

276
You take hold of the rope and haul yourself out of
the ice pit. The Goblins are dressed in furs and are
wearing glowing metal collars around their necks,
They motion you to walk back down the tunnel,
urging you on with the points of their daggers. You
realize that you are doomed unless you try to
escape, If you wish to fight them with your bare
hands, turn to 39. If you would rather try to run
away, furn to 102.

277
Ash is strong enough to keep hold of the rope
bridge, but he cannot-reach you. You are thrown
into the water and swept away downstream. You
are too weak to survive the white-water rapids, and
your adventure ends here.
—

278-279

278

Marching quickly across the plain you do not en-
counter any evil creatures. To the east, you see the
forbidding shape of Firetop Mountain reaching into
the sky. ‘Does the Warlock still rule the depths of
Firetop Mountain?’ Stubb asks inquisitively. You
are just about to reply when you see somebody
walking towards you. You draw your sword, but
when the person gets closer, you see that it is a
little old man carrying a sack over his shoulder. He
stops in front of youand says, ‘Put that sword away,
there’s no point in killing me. The only thing I have
to offer is information — and that costs money. Pay
me 2 Gold Pieces and you won't regret it.’ If you
wish to pay the old man for his information, turn to
69. If you would rather ignore him and continue
south, turn to 348.

279
The Illusionist withdraws his dagger and his three
images prepare to strike you again. You decide to
swipe your blade across all of the images in an
attempt to strike the real Ilusionist. Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, turn to 232. If you are Unlucky, turn
to 127.
280-281

280

You see an overhanging branch, but just fail to grab
it, You are carried further down the river before
being pushed into an inlet where you come to a
welcome halt, If you were carrying a shield, you
would have lost it (lose 1 SKILL point). You have
swallowed lots of water and are completely ex-
hausted; you just have enough strength to clamber
out of the river on to the south bank. Lose 4 STAMtI-
NA points. You curse your bad luck and set off east,
back towards the place where the fire was burning
(turn to 50).

281
You hurriedly cut blocks of ice out of the mountain-
side and build a makeshift igloo. You crawl into it as
the blizzard blows down the mountain with fero-
cious power. Your body-heat is retained inside the
igloo and you keep warm. However, you must eat
two portions of your Provisions to regain your

282-283

strength after the tiring walk and the effort of build-
ing the igloo (this does not increase your STAMINA).
An hour later, the blizzard dies down and you crawl
out of your shelter to continue your quest (turn to

169).

The iron ball flies straight and true. When it hits the
Snow Witch's globe, a bolt of white light shoots out
from the globe towards you. Test your Luck. If you
are Lucky, turn to 193. If you are Unlucky, turn to
84.

283
You breathe in deeply and walk stealthily behind the
effigy towards the tunnel opposite (turn to 370).

=r Pipeepe ease oereguerd

284-285

You only fall a few metres, landing on a grass-
topped outcrop. You continue the arduous climb
and it is not long before you reach the top of the
mountain, which is covered by strange red vegeta-
tion, After the long climb, you sit down to rest and
wait for the sunrise (turn to 217).

285

The door opens into another tunnel which leads off
into the distance, Stubb begins to complain about
being tired and hungry, so you decide to sit down
and rest, If you still have three portions of your
Provisions, you eat one yourself and give one each
to Redswift and Stubb. After resting for half an
hour, you set off again and eventually the tunnel
ends at a T-junction. If you wish to go left, turn to
298. If you wish to go right, turn to 135.

286—287

286

The Barbarian’s only interesting possessions are an
engraved copper armband and a leather pouch con-
taining three silver arrow heads, You take the arrow
heads and look at the engraving on the armband.
On it you can just read the words ‘Strength is
Power’. If you wish to wear the armband, turn to
293. If you would rather place it in your pocket and
continue walking up the gorge, turn to 319,

287
If your STAMINA score is 10 or less, turn to 151. If
your STAMINA Score exceeds 10, turn to 82,

ie

‘
Pe 2
‘ tf 7
ln “—:
‘ a P

BO

288-289

288

The tunnel soon leads into another cavern where
you see a huge, swhite-bearded man wearing white
furs, lifting a wooden chest on toa high shelf. Heisa
FROST GIANT, There is only one other exit out of
his lair, via a tunnel in the opposite wall. If you wish
to nun through his lair into the tunnel opposite, turn
to 243. If you wish to attack him, turn to 122,

289

Feeling tired after the strain of recent events, you sit
down and rest. Stubb decides to go off to forage for
food and Redswift begins to make a fire. You drift
off into a deep sleep which your body welcomes.
Add 2 STAMINA points. You are woken up an hour
later by the ringing sound of clashing swords. You
leap up and see Redswift engaged in combat with
somebody wearing a hooded black cloak. When he
turns, you realize he is a DARK ELF, the natural
enemy of Redswift and his fellow wood elves. You
run to help your friend but you are not needed.
With a forward thrust of his sword, Redswift dis-
patches his adversary, ‘Whose idea was it to wait for
the boatman?’ asks Redswift with a wry smile.
Refusing to be baited, you suggest that you search
through the belongings of the Dark Elf. A pouch on
his belt contains a glass phial filled with a green
liquid. Redswift takes out the stopper and sniffs it,
but he does not recognize the smell. If you wish to
drink the liquid, turn to 158. If you would rather
pour it on to the ground, turn to 173.

290-291

290
You leave the cave and turn left, back into the
tunnel, eating the cake as you go, It is stale and
virtually tasteless, but gives you a little energy. Add
1 STAMINA point. Turn to 198.

291
The Snow Witch stares at you again before making
her choice. This time she calls out ‘Star.’ You smile
and unfold your clenched fist, revealing the circular
metal disc, You have outwitted her and she realizes
the consequences. The globe starts to fill with white
smoke and suddenly it shatters, the image of the
Snow Witch disappears completely. Her shrill cry
fills the cavern, but she is defeated. The three of you
slap each other's hands in celebration. However,
your joy is short-lived as you hear an ominous
rumbling sound. The ground beneath your feet
starts to tremble and huge cracks appear in the ice

292

walls. The roof starts to cave in, Is this the chance to
escape that the Snow Witch promised? Test your
Luck. Ifyou are Lucky, turn to 3. If you are Unlucky,
turn to 358.

292
The Frost Giant turns to face you with the wooden
chest raised above his head. He grunts with the
effort and hurls the chest at you. Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, turn to 93, If you are Unlucky, turn

to 357.

ila

AMER CUES

293-295

293
The armband is charmed with magical power. Add
1 SKILL point. You realize that you must hurry on up
the gorge before the Death Spell muns its fatal course
(turn to 329).

294
The force of the Elemental picks you up and slams
you against the wall, but luckily your backpack
takes the brunt of the impact. Lose 2 STAMINA
points. If you are still alive, turn to 372.

eal psayerensaea ssa tl —

None of the worshippers suspects that you are an
intruder and you are able to walk through their
temple without trouble, into the other tunnel (turn

to 237).

296

296
One of the Hill Trolls looks up and sees you walking
by. He gives a cry of alarm and the three of them run
out of the trees to attack. You have to fight two of
them.

SKILL STAMINA
First HILL TROLL 8 9
Second HILL TROLL 9 9

Fight them both at the same time. During each
Attack Round, they will both make a separate attack
on you, but you must choose which one you wiil
fight. Attack your chosen Hill Troll as in a normal
battle. Against the other one you will throw for your
Attack Strength in the normal way, but you will not
wound it if your Attack Strength is greater; you
must just count this as though you have defended
yourself against its blow. Of course, if its Attack
Strength is greater, it will wound you. If you defeat
them both, turn to 164.

ee"
297-299

297

As you approach the sarcophagus, a woman's eerie .
laughter echoes round the chamber. A beautiful
woman wearing white fur slowly rises out of the f
sarcophagus, and when she smiles you see the
tell-tale fangs and realize with horror that the
SNOW WITCH is a vampire! If you have some

garlic, turn to 210. If you do not have any garlic, turn

to 60.

«

298
The tunnel soon comes to a dead end. An ornate
shield hangs from an iron nail on the end wall. If |
you wish to take the shield, turn to 183. If you would
rather turn round and walk down the tunnel past ?
the last junction, turn to 135. .

299
The man nods his head and tells you to follow him.
He walks towards the left-hand exit and points
down the tunnel, telling you that the Snow Witch’s
chamber is at the end. If you wish to walk into the
tunnel, turn to 214. If you would rather draw your
sword to attack him, turn to 156.

someb-  Stenmersaaraise thy

300-302

300
You breathe in and stride confidently into the
cavern, hoping not to attract attention. You walk
behind the effigy towards the tunnel opposite. Tes!
your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 295. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 370.

301
You kneel down beside the water-hole and drink
your fill of the cool water. However, the water-hole
has been poisoned and you are soon gripping your
stomach as the poison starts to take effect. Lose 4
STAMINA points. If you are still alive, turn to 96.

302
Your head begins to spin and you get double vision.
You stagger on, over the edge of the gorge, slipping
and sliding on the loose stones. When your legs
cannot support your weightany longer, you fall face
down, and never get up. The Snow Witch's Death
Spell has run its fatal course. Your adventure ends
here.

303-306

393
The man you see before you isa MINSTREL. He is
wearing a green and purple checked tunic over his
hose and continues to play his lute despite your
intrusion, Two large clay pots are the only other
things in the cave. Will you:

Attack him with your sword? Turn to 316
Ask him about his music? Turn to 80
Nod politely and leave the cave

to continue along the tunnel? Turn to 111

304
As you run past the globe, a bolt of white light
shoots out from it, hitting you in the back. If your
STAMINA fotalis 10 or less, turn to 44. Ifit exceeds 10
in total, turn to 186.

305
The wounded Mountain Elf calls out for mercy, If
you wish to slay him, turn to 351. If you wish to
spare his life, turn to 204.

306
You scramble out of the cave now that you know the
Healer does not live there (turn to 355).

OL, EEE <_< | —_

397-399

307
The Illusionist laughs out loud — your sword merely
cuts through one of his images and his dagger
plunges into your shoulder. Lose 2 sTAMINA
points. Turn to 279.

308
Fortunately it is not your sword-arm which is
affected by frostbite, but nevertheless the blizzard
has taken its toll. Lose 1 SKILL point and 3 STAMINA
points. If you are still alive, turn to 174.

ce, ae)

309

As you withdraw your sword from the vile Brain
Slayer you hear your two companions groaning as
they slowly come round. They explain that the Brain
Slayer drew them into the cavern and they were
powerless to resist, You examine the chamber and
see another door in the opposite wall, There are also
two clay pots in a recess in the cavern wall, one red
and one grey. Will you:

Open the door? Turn to 176
Look inside the red pot? Turn to 101
Look inside the grey pot? Turn to 344

310-311

310
As you walk along the edge of the crevasse, the
wind starts to how], blowing flurries of snow into
your face. You put your head down and stride into
the wind. A dark shape suddenly looms out of the
curtain of snow —a huge hairy MAMMOTH stands
before you, its long tusks curving out threateningly,
Trumpeting loudly, it lumbers forward to attack.

MAMMOTH
If you win, turn to 47.

SKILL 10 STAMINA II

311

The tunnel ends at the edge of a pit, out of which a
Dwarf is trying to climb, but he keeps on slipping
back. The floor of the pit is covered with large ice
boulders which have crashed down from a shaft
above the pit. One lands on the Dwarf’s shoulders
and you hear wild cheers from the top of the shaft as
he tumbles on to the floor. The Dwarf sees you and
shouts, ‘Curse you, stranger, if you do not aid me. I
see that you are not wearing a collar.’ If you wish to
help the Dwarf out of the pit, turn to 376. If you
would rather ignore his pleas and walk back to the
junction, turn to 57.

312-313

312
As you pull up the vine into the light, you see thatit
is crawling with revolting FLESH GRUBS, their
blind heads writhing around in search of living flesh
in which to burrow. You release the vine, but one of
the Grubs crawls on to the back of your hand.
Fortunately you manage to pull it off and stamp it
underfoot, Add 1 Luck point. You will not find the
Healer in the tree stump so you decide to carry on
walking up the river valley (turn to 119).

343
As the White Dragon prepares to strike, you rub the
copper ring vigorously. A warrior begins to take
shape in front of you. Roll one die to see which
warrior is summoned,

DIE ROLL WARRIOR SKILL STAMINA
1 Knight 9 10
2 Barbarian 8 8
3 Dwarf 7 6
4 Elf 7 5
5 Ninja 6 6
6 Axeman 6 7

a 6 ee >

34

The summoned warrior will fight the White Dragon
first.

WHITE DRAGON SKILL 12

if the warrior wins the fight, he will disappear
immediately (turn to 139). If he loses, you must
continue to fight yourself. If you win, turn to 139.

STAMINA 14

344
You tug down hard on the rope, hoping that the
Goblins are as stupid as they look. Test your Luck, If
you are Lucky, turn to 188, If you are Unlucky, turn
to 86.

315-316

315

The boatman jumps up and says, ‘For 10 Gold
Pieces, I'll ferry you all the way to Fang — jump
aboard!’ You pay the greedy boatman his money
and he soon ferries you across the river. From the far
bank you set off south across the Pagan Plain for
Stonebridge. You have not been walking for long
when you see dust rising in the distance. Redswift
puts his ear to the ground and says, ‘Horses or
Centaurs, I can’t tell which.’ If you wish to wait and
see who or what is approaching, turn to 180. If you
would rather lie down in the scrub to hide, turn to
58.

316

As soon as you touch your sword, the Minstrel
Starts to play a strange high-pitched melody. You
are immediately paralysed by the magic notes and
can only watch helplessly as the Minstrel reaches
into one of the pots to pull out a metal collar, an
obedience collar, which he fits around your neck;
now you will have to serve the Snow Witch for the
rest of your life!

347
Despite being withered, the rose smells fresh and
fragrant. As you inhale, you feel as though you are
breathing new life into your lungs. Add 3 sramina
points. If you have not done so already, you may:

Blow the flute Turn to 74
Read the runes on the stick Turn to 345
Read the book Turn to 356

If vou do not wish to do any of the above, you may
leave the cave and turn left into the tunnel (turn to
198).

318

You hurl the orb as hard as you can down the
tunnel. It shatters when it hits the ground, and
there is a blinding flash of light followed by a ball of
white heat which rushes up the tunnel. The heat is
so intense that a scorching blast reaches you before
you can move. Roll two dice and reduce your sta-
MINA by the total. If you are still alive, turn to 248.

519-321

319
To your right you see a huge slab of rock; carved into
it is the head of a fabulous bird surrounded by
flames, Rough steps lead up the side of the rock slab
to the mouth of a cave, If you wish to enter the cave,
turn to 75. lf you would rather keep on walking up
the gorge, turn to 161,

320
The Wild Hill Man carried nothing of interest to
you. However, the duck is ready to eat and you
enjoy a delicious and nourishing feast. Add 4 STA-
MINA points. You may now either go back across the
river over the rocks (turn to 364); or follow a goat
path up the side of the hill behind the clearing (turn
tO 231).

321
You have only gone ten metres down the tunnel
when the ice floor suddenly cracks and gives way
under your weight. You fall down into an ice pit, a
trap made by the Snow Witch’s followers, Roll 1 die
and deduct the number rolled from your STAMINA
score. If you are still alive, turn to 254.

322-324

322
Still suffering from the effects of the energy bolt,
you have to decide quickly what to do next, Will
you:

Use the sling again? Turn to 216
Try to smash the globe with

your sword? Turn to 244
Try to Escape? Turn to 262

323
You soon arrive at an iron door which blocks your
way forward. Beyond the iron door the tunnel turns
to the right. If you possess a key, turn to 165. If you
do not possess a key, turn to 393.

324
Although you get a headache, you are not injured
by the fall. As you pick yourself up off the floor, you
suddenly hear footsteps coming from the depths of
the cave. In the distance you can see a swaying light
and the vague outline of a hunched, sinewy figure

who skulks slowly forward. If you wish to see who

is coming towards you, tum to 37. If you would
rather run out of the cave, turn to 355.

325-327
325

You notice that round its neck the Elf has a strange
metal collar which glows in the semi-darkness of the
tunnel. Suddenly it stops glowing and turns black.
You wonder what is happening and decide to hurry
on down the tunnel (turn to 241).

326
You stumble to the right and accidentally step on
one of the black footprints (turn to 87).

327
You are now wearing an Amulet of Courage. Add 2
SKILL points. If you have not done so already, you
may:

Blow the flute Turn to 74
Read the runes on the stick Turn to 345
Smell the rose Turn to 317

If you do not wish to do any of the above, you may
leave the cave and turn left into the tunnel (turn to
198).

Ee

328-329

328

You hand the Healer your silver object. He throws it
through the crack and whistles loudly through his
fingers. A few moments later you hear the noise of
flapping wings outside and see the Healer smile
briefly. ‘Tie the silver to its mane and command it to
take you to Firetop Mountain,’ says the Healer. ‘A
Pegasus will fly you anywhere for silver. This is
where we say goodbye, Good luck, I hope you make
it." You shake the Healer’s hand, thanking him over
and over again. Then, waving goodbye, you
Squeeze through the crack into the daylight. Before
you stands a magnificent beast. It looks like a white
stallion but it has wings. You tie the silver to its
mane and climb on to its back. You shout your
destination and suddenly you are flying through
the air, clinging on to the neck of the mighty Pega-
sus. It is not long before you reach the mountain
and land safely on the summit, which is covered in
strange red vegetation. You jump down from the
Pegasus and watch it fly off into the distance. You sit
down to rest and wait for sunrise (turn to 217),

— ** ~

iG
bet

‘

,

Mi,
Ike

-_“
1 .
\o ¥,
is
) ‘
Aa > *
A - =

———_.

329
Opening your backpack, you offer the Centaurs 10
Gold Pieces if they will take you to Stonebridge.
Their leader's eyes light up at the sight of the gold
and he realizes that you may be carrying lots more.
Turn to 272.

339-332

330
One of the daggers flies past your head, but the
other sinks into your shoulder. Lose 2 sTAMINA
points. You stop briefly to pull the dagger out and
throw it back at the Goblins before running painful-
ly on (turn to 29).

331
The Mountain Elf does not suspect that you are an

intruder and you are able to walk casually past him
(turn to 241).

332

Redswift and Stubb pace around nervously, waiting
for you to recover, and it is not long before their
worst fears are realized. Three GOBLINS come
running down the corridor, waving their swords
and yelling for revenge. Despite the pain you are
forced to join your friends in combat against one of
the Goblins.

GOBLIN

During this combat, reduce your SKILL by 3 points
because of your injuries from the fireball. [f you win,
turn to 155.

SKILL 6 STAMINA 6

333-336

333
You instinctively clutch the hilt of your sword as the
Healer’s words of warning echo through your
mind. Roll two dice and add 2 to the total. If the total
is the same or less than your SKILL score, turn to 68.

If the total is greater than your skIvt score, turn to
185.

334
The robed man tells you that he is a herbalist and

has only just moved into the hut. You ask him
guardedly if he has heard of a man called the Healer.
He rubs his chin and shakes his head, saying, ‘No,
can’t say that I have." You decide to leave the
herbalist, having already wasted too much of your
limited time. Lose 1 STAMINA point. You walk back
down the path and up the river valley (turn to 205).

335
The bridge is quite narrow and very slippery. Test

your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 41. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 389.

336
You sit up and see that the Snow Witch's globe is
cracked, but she appears to have come to no harm.
She watches you carefully, ready for your next
move (turn to 262).

_ =
it te
= ~*~

eo

0
337-339 34

337
The snow is beginning to fall very heavily, swirling
around in the strong wind. A blizzard is starting. If
you wish to use your sword to dig a shelter in the
snow, turn to 281. If you would rather press on, turn

to 229,

338
You soon arrive at a crossroads in the tunnel.
However, you have no time to examine the left and
right branches, as a strange humanoid is advancing
towards you from straight ahead (turn to 59).

339
The tunnel runs straight on until it opens out into a

cavern. The walls are covered with ice and a large
glass globe stands on an ice plinth in the centre,
Suddenly an ORC runs into the cavern from the
tunnel opposite and the globe immediately starts to
radiate light. The outline of a face takes shape in the
globe, one which you recognize ~ the Snow Witch!
Her encased head starts to laugh and then you hear
her speak. In a chilling voice she says, “Although
you killed me, you have not defeated me. My spirit

can still defeat you. Watch carefully.’ The Orc, who
is standing by the globe, grips the metal collar round
his neck and cries out, gasping for breath. His green
face bulges as he desperately tries to stop the collar
tightening. His efforts are futile and he soon falls
silently to the floor. The Snow Witch's image sneers
contemptuously and says, ‘I have no use for ser-
vants any longer, and 1 know that two of you are sill
wearing my obedience collars. | will enjoy watching
you die next, as a forerunner to the agony I have in
store for your impudent warrior friend.’ You refuse
to watch Redswift and Stubb die helplessly, and you
rack your brain to think of a way to overcome the
Spirit of the Snow Witch. Will you:

Try to smash the globe with

your sword? Turn to 244
Fire an iron ball from your sling

at the globe (if you have one)? Turn to 216
Try to run through the cavern

into the opposite tunnel? Turn to 304

340
If the number you rolled was odd, the dart misses
you but the whip curls itself around your left ankle,
sending you crashing to the floor (turn to 108). If the
number you rolled was even, the whip misses you
but the dart plunges into your arm. Lose 3sTAMINA
points, If you are still able to run, turn to 177.

- *. eee

ee Se

344-H44

341
When you open the door, one of the man’s eyes
flicks open. He seems, however, unconcerned at
your intrusion and remains stretched out in his
rocking-chair. If you wish to ask him if he is the
Healer, turn to 71. If you would rather just tell him
you are lost, turn to 334.

342
The only items you find that might be of use are a
candle and a tinder-box. You take them and climb
back down the ladder to continue walking east up
the gorge (turn to 92).

343

‘Never mind,’ says the Healer, ‘you will just have to
concentrate more. When you are ready, step
across.’ He tells you that the log is quite narrow and
the pit is about 15 metres across. You take a deep
breath and step on to the log and into the darkness.
Roll two dice and add 2 to the total. [f the total is the
same or less than your SKILL score, turn to 91. If the
total is greater than your SKILL score, turn to 78.

344
Lying at the bottom of the grey pot is an old parch-

ment scroll with an unbroken wax seal. If you wish
to break the seal and read the scroll, turn to 224. If
not, you may either look inside the red pot (turn to
101), Or leave the cavern by the door opposite (turn

to 1:76).

—

345-347

345
Your knowledge of runes is limited and you put the
stick in your backpack, hoping to decipher it later. If
you have not done so already, you may:

Blow the flute Turn to 74
Smell the rose Turn to 317
Read the book Turn to 356

if you do not wish to do any of the above, you may
leave the cave and turn left into the tunnel (turn to

198).

346
The herbalist was true to his word. The pills reduce
the pain and you feel marginally better. Add 4
STAMINA points. Intent on finding the real Healer,
you walk back down the path and up the river valley
{turn to 205).

347

You search through the clothing of the Goblins and
find some salted fish, a candle and 2 Gold Pieces,
which you decide to take, along with their daggers.
The metal collars around their necks have stopped
glowing, but you cannot remove them. After put-
ting the Goblins’ possessions in your backpack, you
set off further down the tunnel (turn to 106).

_  .
~~ ‘ < JAA
YY

x
gg

348-350

348

The flatness of the plain becomes monotonous and
you forget to keep a constant lookout. The reflection
of the sun on your armour has attracted a group of
flying predators that you do not notice circling
above you. They are green, with membranous
wings, and they swoop down on their prey to kill
them with their sharp claws. There are four of these
BIRD-MEN above you and one of them suddenly
lets out a shrill cry and swoops down to attack you.
Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 256. If you
are Unlucky, turn to 369.

349
You fall a couple of metres only before landing on an

icy ledge protruding from the side of the crevasse.
You are lucky to escape with only a twisted ankle.
Lose 1 STAMINA point. Using your sword, you cut
hand- and toe-holds into the side of the crevasse
and haul yourself up, Plodding your way through
the thick snow, you continue your quest (turn to
212),

350°
The Rattlesnake bites the leg of your boot and
empties its poison harmlessly on to the hardened
leather. With one swipe of your sword, you cut off
its head and continue your trek up the gorge (turn to

252).

354-353

351
Continue your sword fight to the bitter end.
MOUNTAIN ELF
If you win, turn to 325.

SKILL6 STAMINA 2

352
The iron ball flies through the air but whistles past
the Frost Giant’s head. You have no time to reload
and must rely on your sword-arm again (turn to

292).

353
Redswift draws the short straw and reaches for the

handle. Just as he is about to touch it he draws his
hand away, his elfin intuition telling him that there
is a trap. He inspects the casket more closely and
finds a hidden catch underneath the handle. He
presses it with his finger and the lid clicks open.
Inside the casket is a pair of grey skin boots. ‘Boots
of the elder elves,’ he says with glee, ‘what treasure
— nobody knows how to make these any more. No
matter what surface you are walking on, no one will
hear you, if you are wearing these boots. Let us
draw lots again to decide who shall wear them.’ If
you roll a 1 or 2, turn to 203. If you rolla 3 or 4, turnto
265. If you roll a § or 6, turn to 379.

=

354-356

354
Inside the backpack you find a pair of old leather
sandals, a stuffed rat and a mouldy loaf. If you wish
to eat the loaf, turn to 247. If you would prefer to
leave the cave immediately through the tunnel
Opposite, turn to 2214.

355
Half-running, half-sliding, you land back on the
floor of the gorge. However, you are getting weaker
by the minute. Lose 1 STAMINA point. Walking
uphill, you follow the gorge east (turn to 377).

356
Flicking up the clasp which keeps the book shut, a
tiny hidden needle grazes your finger. There is
poison on its tip to trap unwary thieves. Lose 4
STAMINA points. If you are still alive, you may open
the book (turn to 97) or, if you have not done so
already, you may:

Blow the flute Turn to 74
Read the runes on the stick Turn to 345
Smell the rose Turn to 317

lf you do not wish to do any of the above, you may
leave the cave and turn left into the tunnel (turn to

198).

357-358

You react slowly to the improvised missile and the
full force of the flying chest hits you in the stomach.
You are winded and stagger back against the wall.
Lose 2 STAMINA points, The Frost Giant lumbers
towards you intent on finishing you off.

FROST GIANT

During each round of combat you must reduce your
Attack Strength by 2 because you are winded. You
may Escape after two Attack Rounds by running out
of his lair into the next tunnel (turn to 338). If you
win, turn to 45.

SKILL10 STAMINA 10

A massive lump of ice crashes down on top of you.
Lose 4 STAMINA points. If you are still alive, turn to

go.

359-360

359

The Healer takes the egg from you and breaks off
the top of the shell. He takes some powder out of a
pendant hanging round his neck, and pours it into
the egg. After stirring it with a stick, he hands it to
you, telling you to drinkit. You swallow the raw egg
concoction, trusting the Healer’s knowledge. He
then tells you to walk ahead of him (turn to 154).

360
Once again the current drags you under the surface
of the water, This time the weight of the gold in your
backpack keeps you under, because you are too
weak to swim. Your adventure ends here.

ee
a NE eee ee ee

361-362

362
Lose 1 LUCK point. Turn to 127.

362
The horned helmet fits you perfectly and it is a fine
addition to your armour. Add 1 SKILL point. Red-
swift takes the Centaur’s spear, before the three of
you set off for Stonebridge (turn to 278).

Hom EIT YI hE) ad hee

363-364

363

You make your way slowly up the mountain until
you reach a rock face that is too steep to climb. You
walk round the side until you see a massive wall of
ice which completely blocks a gully between two
peaks of the mountain —the glacier. Your heart leaps
as you catch sight of the piece of fur left hanging on
the wall of ice by the trapper. Although you cannot
see the entrance, you walk straight ahead. You shut
your eyes as you think you are about to walk into the
wall of ice, but you walk straight through the illu-
sion and find yourself inside a long tunnel carved
into the ice, You walk down it and soon arrive at a
T-junction. If you wish to turn left, turn to 395. If
you wish to turn right, turn to 215.

364
You manage to hop over the rocks without falling in-
to the river. However, the Death Spell continues ta
take its toll. Lose 1 stamina point. You tum right
and walk up the river valley (turn to 115).
365-366

365

The tunnel ends at a door which swings open before
you even touch it. You look into a cavern and are
surprised to see Redswift and Stubb kneeling in
submission to a horrible robed creature with an
octopus-like head. Two of its tentacles are wrapped
around your friends’ heads and they are trapped by
the hypnotic powers of the BRAIN SLAYER. If you
are wearing an Amulet of Courage, turn to 189, If
you are not wearing this item, turn to 126,

366
You search through the clothing of the Goblins and
find some salted fish, a candle and 2 Gold Pieces,
which you decide to keep. Both Goblins are wearing
metal collars round their necks which you cannot
remove, Taking the dagger from the Goblin you
slew, you cut hand- and toe-holds into the side of
the pitand haul yourself up. Picking up your sword,
you decide which way to head, wondering if there
are any more traps further down the tunnel. If you
wish to continue down it, turn to 88, If you would
-  tather walk back to where the tunnel forked and
turn left along the other branch, turn to 29.

.*
" “
% ON

.

<

y a
‘ . a)
és .
ay a4
Ee \

7
7
c¢
‘f ~
= ~ ‘
nam ,

. ,
™”~
“er
*

1 ov
1 \ . as Oe ;
it , ae Pa
Ld ete prey We” 4

367-368

367
You try to stand up, but your legs feel as stiff and
heavy as iron. You look at Redswift; he also tries to
stand up, alas without success. As you begin to lose
consciousness, you realize that the Snow Witch has
had her revenge. Your adventure ends here,

368
The tunnel ends at a wooden door which is locked.
You press your ear to it and hear the sound of feet
slowly shuffling across the floor, If you wish to
knock on the door, turn to 83. If you would rather
return to the junction and head straight on, turn to

150.

369-370

You are slow in drawing your sword and the BIRD-
MAN is able to rip you with its claws. Lose 2
STAMINA points. You watch as it climbs into the sky
but you are now ready to meet it as it dives down
again to attack,

BIRD-MAN

If you win, turn to 18.

SKILL 12 STAMINA S

370
You are almost at the entrance to the tunnel! when

the worshippers stop their chanting. They stand up
and one of them calls out to you asking why you did
not stop to sing the praises of The Frozen One. If
you have a magic flute, you can tell them that you
have been ordered to go and play it for the Snow
Witch (turn to 31). Otherwise you may either fight
them (turn to 143), or try to run for the tunnel (turn

to 33),
371-372

371
Before you can reach the safety of the outcrop, the
avalanche descends upon you, sweeping you down
the mountain. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn
to 257. If you are Unlucky, turn to 64.

ORO cayyaye ease ata yes |e

372

The Elemental disappears as quickly as it appeared,
and allis calm again. Although quite badly injured,
Redswift and Stubb are still alive. Despite his pain,
Stubb manages to make a sarcastic remark about
your rash desire to touch everything in sight. Ignor-
ing his jibe, you sling the shield on to your arm (add
1 SKILL point) and walk together back down the
tunnel and past the last junction (turn to 135).

373

373
You place an iron ballin the sling and twirlit around

your head before releasing it at the Frost Giant. Roll
two dice. If the number of the total is the same or
less than your SKILL score, turn to 12. If the total is
higher than your SKILL score, turn to 352,

tt Ot Oi 2 aie

SAL

«

i '

z

> ar
eZ =

374-375

374
Barbarians are used to people creeping up on them,

and the noise of your boots on the stony ground
wakes him up. Barbarians also fight first and ask
questions later. He jumps up and grabs his battleaxe
to attack you.

BARBARIAN SKILL9Q STAMINA8

If you win, turn to 286.

375
You curse as the iron ball misses its target. Lose 1

LUCK point. A bolt of white light shoots out from the
globe, hitting you in the chest. [If your STAMINA
total is 10 or less, turn to 44. If it exceeds 10 in total,
furn to 122.

376-377

You lie down and lean over the edge of the pit, and
tell the Dwarf to grab your arm. Much to the
annoyance of the spectators above, the Dwarf
escapes from the pit. You run together back to the
junction where the Dwarf turns right. You tell the
Dwarf that you intend to carry straight on to find the
Snow Witch, as turning right will lead you back to
the hall of worship. The Dwarf tells you that he
must escape quickly and return to his village now
that he is free. He thanks you for helping him and
hands you a leather bag, then runs off; but before
he disappears, he turns and shouts, ‘Beware the
White Rat.’ You open the leather bag and find a
sling and three iron balls. You pack them away and
set off along the tunnel (turn to 125),

377
You get very tired walking up the gorge and do not

pay attention to where you are treading. You
accidentally step on a RATTLESNAKE, which
strikes at you with its deadly fangs. Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, turn to 350. If you are Unlucky, turn
to 167.

378-379

You draw your sword and lunge at the huge white
beast.

YETI SKILL 11
if you win, turn to 67.

STAMINA 12

You draw the short straw and cheer at your good
fortune. Add 1 tuck point. You kick off your old
boots and put on the magical elfin boots. Striding off
down the corridor without making the slightest
sound, you cheerfully lead the way, and your
jealous-looking companions follow (turn to 20).
380-382

380

The Snow Witch is strong and she manages to
snatch the stick from your hand and throw it on to
the floor. Her gaze intensifies and your mind comes
completely under her control. You loosen your col-
lar and bare your neck in readiness for her to drink
your blood. You will be her servant forever in the
world of the undead.

381
The weight of the gold in your backpack keeps
dragging you underwater. If you wish to take off
your backpack, turn to 42. If you would rather keep
it on and struggle to breathe, turn to 287.

382
As you draw your sword, the MOUNTAIN ELF,
with a shrill battle-cry, pulls back his cloak and grips
his sword.

MOUNTAIN ELF — SKILL6

if you win, turn to 208,

STAMINA 6

=~ #

383-385

383
By the time all three of you have run through the
acid shower, you are very demoralized. Lose 1 LUCK
point, Nevertheless, you press on resolutely (turn
to 339).

384

You pull down the hood of your cloak as far as
possible and walk towards the tunnel exit on your
right. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 295. If
you are Unlucky, turn to 370.

385

You feel yourself growing weaker by the minute.
Lose 1 STAMINA point. Ahead you see a gorge
running east between two hills and you decide that
you may as well walk up it, in the hope of finding
the Healer. Half-way up the left-hand side of the
gorge you see the entrance to a cave. If you wish to
climb up to the cave, turn to 170. If you would rather
keep walking up the gorge, turn to 377.
EO

386-387

386
You are unable to move out of the path of the dagger
quickly enough and it cuts a deep gash in your side.
Lose 2 STAMINA points. You have no time to recover
as the Goblin raises his arm to strike you again. You
must fight him with your bare hands.

GOBLIN

During each Attack Round you must reduce your
Attack Strength by 3 as you are without your sword.
If you win, turn to 43."

SKILL 5 STAMINA 5

387

The cold is almost unbearable. Your hands and feet
are numb and you wonder if you will be able to grip
your sword should danger arise, By the time the
blizzard finally dies down, you realize that you
should have taken shelter; one of your hands has
become frostbitten. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 308. If you are Unlucky, turn to 225.

oe ee -

ee

388

388

As you walk along, the Elf introduces himself. ‘My
name is Redswift, and he is known as Stubb,’ he
says, pointing to the smiling Dwarf. ‘We met here
as slaves in the service of the vile Snow Witch, We
both now hope to return to our villages. I live in
the Moonstone Hills and Stubb comes from
Stonebridge. If we manage to escape from these
infernal caverns, you are more than welcome to
come and stay with us. Stonebridge is on the way to
my village in the hills. It's also a long way off.’ Just
as Redswift is about to continue, you notice some-
thing strange about the floor and tel] them to look
down. There are two pairs of parallel footsteps
running down the tunnel for approximately 20
metres. One pair is painted white and the other is
painted black. You wonder why they are there, but
cannot come up with an answer. Will you:

Walk on the white footprints? Turn to 21
Walk on the black footprints? Turn to 87
Walk between the footprints? Turn to 220

389-390

389
You are almost over the bridge when you suddenly
slip and fall over the edge. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 349. If you are Unlucky, turn to 197.

3990

You draw your sword and advance towards the old
man, asking him why he is so eager to acquire
blood-money. You pin him against the wall holding
the point of your sword under his chin and ask him
to explain why a so-called philanthropic Healer
requires 50 Gold Pieces for saving a life. The old
man starts to tremble and says, ‘All right, I’m sorry,
I'm not the Healer. I am only a simple herbalist,
down on my luck. I figured that soon you wouldn’t
be needing your gold anyhow, so you wouldn’t
mind me having some of it. I realize that it was a
foolish thing to do. Listen, you can have some of my
own pills that stop my aches and pains, They might
help. No charge of course,’ With your sword tip still
pinning him up against the wall, he reaches into his
robes and pulls out a small bottle. He opens it and
hands you three green pills. You grab the pills and
leave the hut, telling the old man that he is lucky to
be alive. Outside, you have to decide what to do. If
you wish to swallow the pills, turn to 346. If you
would rather walk back down the path and up the
river valley, turn to 205.

eo

392~393

If you have frostbite in your sword-arm, turn to 195.
If not, turn to 249.

392

The Snow Witch stares at you for a long time before
calling out ‘Circle,’ Terror spreads across your face
as you unfold your fist, revealing the star-shaped
metal disc. The Snow Witch laughs and another
energy bolt shoots out from her globe, It slams into
your chest, killing you instantly. Your adventure is
over.

393
You are trapped inside the mountain tunnels. You

know that it will not be long before the Snow
Witch’s guards discover you and condemn you to
a life of slavery. You have failed in your mission.

a
‘= — —

394-395

394

As you climb down inside the dark depths of the
hollow tree, you suddenly feel cold, clammy,
maggot-like larvae slithering up the vine. They are
as big as your finger and they craw! on to your body
and bare arms, but you cannot brush them off for
fear of falling. In the dark, you don’t see their blind
heads writhing about, but you feel the pain when
one burrows its hook-like teeth into your arm. You
are covered with FLESH GRUBS. In blind panic,
you try to haul yourself up the vine, the effect of the
Death Spell making it a terrible effort. If your stam-
INA is 6 or less, turn to 191. If your STAMINA is
greater than 6, turn to 222.

395
The tunnel bends round to the right. As you turn
the corner you almost bump into a tall pale-skinned
humanoid coming the other way. He is wearing a
white cloak with a hood pulled over his head. Heisa
MOUNTAIN ELF, one of the Snow Witch's follow-
ers. Will you:

Nod your head at him and walk

by nonchalantly? Turn to 89
Tell him you have come to join

the Snow Witch's followers? Turn to 274
Attack him with your sword? Turn to 17

396-397

The writing fades away before you have time to read
it. Lose 1 Luck point. If you have not done so
already, you may either look inside the red pot (turn
to 101) or leave the cavern by the door opposite (turn

to 176).

397
The Elf sees you draw your sword and advance

towards him. He calmly strings his bow and fires an
arrow at you with deadly accuracy. Redswift’s
brother is an expert bowman: his arrow kills you
instantly when it pierces your heart.

NS  — .....e

398~400

. 398
val $ Neat | VUES iif As you climb the rope-ladder, you hear the noise of
SWeh te f Y : shuffling feet on the platform above you. You climb
vee” -

through a hole in the platform, but you are not
greeted by the Healer — you have intruded into the
hideaway of a vicious MAN-ORC. You draw your
sword as it reaches for its axe.

MAN-ORC SKILL 8 STAMINA 6

If you win, turn to 342.

ute

nS Py ve |
s

)

the a

vase
tif

HM i

4 il

i iy

_—

399
Stubb wakes you in the middle of the night after
completing the second watch. The rest of the night
passes peacefully and in the morning you are able to
continue your journey to Stonebridge (turn to 13).

a
~

400
Itis the beginning of a beautiful day. A day whichis
probably going to be the most enjoyable of your life.
The spirit of the evil Snow Witch has been destroyed
and you are cured of her terrible curse. As you climb
down the mountain, you think about the kind,
unselfish Healer, and of your friends Redswift and
Stubb. You are suddenly eager to meet the jolly old
Dwarf again and set off towards Stonebridge as fast
as you can, hoping that he will have returned from
Darkwood Forest. You have earned yourself a wel-
| come rest, although whether or not you will get itis
| another story . . .

Vi Melt

ee

‘Steve Jackson's
SORCERY!

a. THE SHAMUTANTI HILLS

‘Your search forthe legendaey Crown of Kings lakes you
to the hamutant Hil live ith el creatures, less
‘wanderers and bloodthiesty monster, the land is ded
hh taps and teks wating for the unwary travel
‘Wil you be able to erose the bls safely and proceed to
the second part of the adventure or vill you perish in
the stempt?

2. KHARE — CITYPORT OF TRAPS

Asa warrior elvng on fore of ams, o & wizard trained
Jn maple, you must brave te teror ofa ety bul o fp
the unwary. You wil need all your wits bout you To
survive the unimaginable hoor ahead and to make
Senue of the clues whch ay lead to Your susie orto
your doom!

3. THE SEVEN SERPENTS

Seven deadly and magical smpents speed ahead of you to
‘vam the eil Archmage of your coming, Wil you beable
focateh them botore thy pet there?

4. THE CROWN OF KINGS

At the end of your long trek. you fce the unknowa
{errs of the Mazipang Fortes. Hidden inaide the keep
Ib the Crown of Kings ee ultimate goal othe Soret
pie, ut beware! For if you have not defeated the Seven
Seepents, your aval has been salicpated

Complete with all the magical spells you wil
reed, each book ean be plajed ether on sown ot
25 par of the whole epi
Fantasy Questbooks — 32 pages, full colour

THE PATH OF PERIL
Dawid Fickling and Perry Hinton
Illustrated by Rachel Birkett

The famous explorer Edmund Mallory has been foully
murdered, and the legendary Bloodstone, which he
acquired under mysterious circumstances on his Last
travels, is missing. All that remains are the scattered frag-
ments of the explorer’s diary, his personal notebook and
most of the contents of his ransacked study. An almost
unsolvable mystery. Yet it seems that the explorer himself
expected to meet a violent end and prepared the way for
YOU to track down his murderer and recover the
Bloodstone. Unfortunately, the clues he laid have been
scattered in the turmoil of his terrible death, All the infor-
mation you need is here, ingeniously hidden in both text
and pictures, and each strand of the m tery unravels to
reveal the next, Are YOU sharp enough to crack it?

STARFLIGHT ZERO
David Fickling end Perry Histon
Ilastrated by Peter Andrew Jones

One by one the Free Planets have fallen to the relentless
advance of the Dark Ships until only Caldoran and
Palonar remain. Then a last, despairing message comes
from Palonar and Caldoran is on its own. It seems that
the invaders, armed with the power of the invincible
Black Light, will soon conquer the last outpost of resist:
ance. The only hope for the survival of Caldoran is one
last desperate mission by a small group of star fighters to
strike at the source of the Black Light, And YOU are part
of the mission,
MAELSTROM
‘Alexander Seott

Imagine a Band of tavelers on the long 8d fom St
‘Abang 19 Landon <a dangateu Journey tue
tenon. YOU choose the charters you pny, YOU decile
the misons.and YOU have te adventures the are
Tene oe of Europe in the sbtcenn century ether os
Complete with Beginners’ and Advanced Rules, Refere’s
Note, maps, charts snd sol adventure To ge You
stared ‘ecbtvom is gre game for tee oe more

players.

OuT.OF THE PIT
Fighting Fantasy Monsters
‘Steve Jackson an lan Livingstone

From she darkest comer, ftom the deepest pools and
fom dungeons thought ony to east insights come
the Fighting Fancy monstrs the dovnal of ny
brave warn Two hundred and ity tae ethene
reat rm thew ad dangers words ef Fight

Fantasy ae calleced here = some are id adver
any jou have Jett met — ena of them dessbed ih
Finite deta An “indlapensabe guise ior Fighting

FIGHTING FANTASY
‘The introductory Role-playing game
Steve jackson

‘The word of Fighting Fantasy peopled by Orcs, dragons,
Inlions of readers worded. Thang adentutes of
Sword and sorery come tile inthe Hghling Fantasy
Gamebooks, where the reer is Ihe her. dieing wath

Now YOU can ceate your own Fighting Fantasy adven-
tures and send your Blends olf on dangerous missions!
In this elenty Water handbook, these ave hints on
devising combat, monsters to ase, tricks and fast,
5 well as to mint-adventusrs complete with Comes.
Masters notes for you to start with Literally countless
Adventares avait yout

WHAT IS DUNGEONS AND DRAGONS?
ohn Butterfield, Philip Parker, David Honigonann
A foveinatng. guide to the greatet ofall roleplaying
omes: It Incudes detaled Background note, hunts Of

Play and dungeon design, strategy and lacs, and will
prove invaluable for players and beginners alike
THE CRETAN CHRONICLES:
Bloodfeud of Althews
At the Court of King Minos
Return of the Wanderer
Iolo Buterfield, Pip Parker, David Honigmann

Faled by a treacherous blowin the labyrinth of King
‘Minos, your brother Theses tes dead and unsvenged
‘The spirits of your ancestors ry out from Hades in anger,
nd Hlermes, the messenger ofthe gods, eppears to speed
Yyou.on your way: For YOU are Alpes, the Brother on
‘whom thls heroic ak fall. YOU ehiet for ation, YOU.
Imust tavel across the wild seas and lands of Ancient
Greece, batting with demons, mythical creatures and
Powerful leader, Brave Athens wil the gods be on
yourside?

All you noe ia twa dice a pencil and an eraser to embark
6 thi heroic adventure In the lands af siythe and
{sens Each book can be played om it ven os part of
‘he whale Cretan Chronicles epi adventure

