STEVE JACKSON'S

Ten

hell Rgyfantasy frit n

Steve Jackson

Illustrated by Tim Sell
Puffin Books
Puffin Books, Penguin Books Ltd, Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England
Viking Penguin Inc., 40 West 23rd Street, New York, New York too10, U.S.A.
Penguin Books Australia Ltd, Ringwood, Victoria, Australia
Penguin Books Canada [.td, 2801 John Street, Markham, Ontario, Canada L3it 184
Penguin Books (N.Z.) Ltd, 182-190 Wairau Road, Auckland 10, New Zealand

A short version of House of Hell was
first published in WARLOCK 3 magazine, 1984

First published 1984
Reprinted 1985 (three times)

Copyright © Steve Jackson, 1084
Mlustrations copyright © Tim Sell, 1984
All nights reserved

Printed and bound in Great Britain by
Cox & Wyman Ltd, Reading
Set in Linotron 13/13 pt Palatino by
Rowland Phototypesetting Ltd
Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk

Except in the United States of America,
this book is sold subject to the condition
that it sball not, by way of trade or otherwise,
be lent, re-sold, hired out, or otherwise circulated
without the publisher's prior consent in any form of
binding or cover other than that in which it is
published and without a similar condition
including this condition being imposed
on the subsequent purchaser

CONTENTS

HOW TO SURVIVE THE HOUSE OF HELL

9

HINTS ON PLAY
17

ADVENTURE SHEET
18
BACKGROUND

20

HOUSE OF HELL
HOW TO SURVIVE THE HOUSE OF
HELL

The House of Heil is a little different from previous
Fighting Fantasy adventures. You start your adven-
ture unarmed, with no provision or potions; and you
have to avoid being frightened to death!

Before embarking on your adventure, you must first
determine your own strengths and weaknesses. To
see how brave, lucky and resourceful you are, you
must use the dice to determine your initial sKILL,
STAMINA and LUCK scores. On pages 18—19 there is
an Adventure Sheet which you may use to record the
details of an adventure. On it you will find boxes for
recording your SKILL, STAMINA and LUCK scores.

You are advised either to record your scores on the
Adventure Sheet in pencil, or, make photocopies of
the page to use in future adventures.

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter this
total in the sK1Lt box on the Adventure Sheet. This is
your Initial sx1Lv. In this adventure, your Starting
SKILL is less, because you are unarmed, but you will
have the opportunity to arm yourself (see Weapons,
P13).

Roll both dice. Add 12 to the number rolled and
enter this total in the sramINa box.
There is also a Luck box. Roll one die, add 6 to this
number and enter this total in the Luck Box.

For reasons that will be explained below, sKILL,
STAMINA and LUCK scores change constantly dur-
ing an adventure. You must keep an accurate record
of these scores and for this reason you are advised
either to write small in the boxes or to keep an eraser
handy. But never rub out your Initial scores.
Although you may be awarded additional sK1L1,
STAMINA and Luck points, these totals may never
exceed your Initial scores, except on very rare occa-
sions, when you will be instructed on a particular
page.

Your SKILL score reflects your general fighting ex-
pertise; the higher the better. Your STAMINA score
reflects your general constitution, your will to sur-
vive, your determination and courage; the higher
your STAMINA score, the longer you will be able to
survive. Your LUCK score indicates how naturally
lucky a person you are. Luck - and evil - are facts of
life in the devilish domain you are about to explore.

Battles

You will often come across pages in the book which
instruct you to fight ghosts, ghouls, men and
beasts. An option to flee may be given, butif not - or
if you choose to attack the creature anyway — you
must resolve the battle as described below.

First record the creature’s SKILL and sTAMINA

10
scores in the first vacant Evil Encounter Box on your
Adventure Sheet. The scores for each creature are
given in the book each time you have an encounter.
The sequence of combat is then:

1. Roll both dice once for the creature. Add its skrLL
score. This total is the creature’s Attack Strength.

2. Roll both dice once for yourself. Add the number
rolled to your current sxkILt score. This total is
your Attack Strength.

3. If your Attack Strength is higher than that of the
creature, you have wounded it. Proceed to step
4. If the creature's Attack Strength is higher than
yours, it has wounded you. Proceed to step 5. If
both Attack Strength totals are the same, you
have avoided each other’s blows — start the next
Attack Round from step 1 above.

4. You have wounded the creature, so subtract 2
points from its STAMINA score. You may use
your Luck here to do additional damage (see
below).

5. The creature has wounded you, so subtract 2
points from your own STAMINA score. Again you
may use LUCK at this stage (see below).

6. Make the appropriate adjustments to either the
creature’s or your own STAMINA scores (and
your LUCK score if you used Luck — see below).

7. Begin the next Attack Round by returning to
your current SKILL score and repeating steps
1-6. This sequence continues until the sraMINA
score of either you or the creature you are
fighting has been reduced to zero (death).

Ww
Fear

As well as surviving your adventure by ensuring
that your STAMINA never drops to zero, in The House
of Hell you must also avoid being frightened to death.
Before you begin your adventure, roll one die and
add 6 to the result. This total will give you the
maximum FEAR score you can bear. Your FEAR score
is the number of points you can take before being
frightened to death. During your adventure, you will
come across situations where you must, for exam-
ple, ‘Add one (or two, etc.) FEAR points.’ Your FEAR
score starts at zero and you must add FEAR points as
instructed in the text. If your FEAR score reaches the
maximum {as rolled initially — see above), then you
are frightened to death and must end your adventure.
Note that FEAR works in the opposite way to normal
SKILL, STAMINA and LUCK scores; you start with
zero and increase your FEAR score towards your
maximum, rather than subtracting, as you do with
the other scores.

Escaping

On some pages you may be given the option of
running away from a battle should things be going
badly for you. However, if you do run away, the
creature automatically gets in one wound on you
(subtract 2 STAMINA points) as you flee. Such is the
price of cowardice. Note that you may use LUCK on
this wound in the normal way (see below). You may

2
only Escape if that option is specifically given to you
on the page.

Fighting More Than One Creature

If you come across more than one creature in a
particular encounter, the instructions on that page
will tell you how to handle the battle. Sometimes
you will treat them as a single monster; sometimes
you will fight each one in turn.

Weapons

You begin The House of Hell adventure with no
weapon. As with other Fighting Fantasy adven-
tures, your SKILL score reflects your combat ability
with a weapon. So, before you start off on your
adventure, deduct 3 points from your SKILL score
and note this ‘Starting sxitt’. Do not, however,
change your Initial skILL, as this is still used to
determine the maximum SKILL you have, andis also
used if you must make rolls against your sKIL. If
you find a WEAPON (which will be identified with
capital letters) during the adventure, the text will
tell you how many skILL points the WEAPON
allows you to add. These points are added to your
‘Starting SKILL’, not your Initial SKILL.

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either in
battles or when you come across situations in which

13
you could either be lucky or unlucky (details of
these are given on the pages themselves), you may
call on your LUCK to make the outcome more favour-
able. But beware! Using Luck is a risky business and
if you are unlucky, the results could be disastrous.

The procedure for using your Luckisas follows: roll
two dice. If the number rolled is equal to or less than
your current LUCK score, you have been lucky and
the result will go in your favour. If the number
rolled is higher than your current LUCK score, you
have been unlucky and you will be penalized.

This procedure is known as Testing your Luck. Each
time you Test your Luck, you must subtract one point
from your current LUCK score. Thus you will soon
realize that the more you rely on your luck, the more
risky this will become.

Using Luck in Battles

On certain pages of the book you will be told to Test
your Luck and will be told the consequences of your
being lucky or unlucky. However, in battles, you
always have the option of using your Luck either to
inflict a more serious wound ona creature you have
just wounded, or to minimize the effects of a wound
the creature has just inflicted on you.

If you have just wounded the creature, you may Test
your Luck as described above. If you are lucky, you
have inflicted a severe wound and may subtract an
extra 2 points from the creature’s STAMINA score.

14
However, if you are unlucky, the wound was a mere
graze and you must restore 1 point to the creature's
STAMINA (i.e. instead of scoring the normal 2 points
of damage, you have now scored only 1).

If the creature has just wounded you, you may Test
your Luck to try to minimize the wound. If you are
lucky, you have managed to avoid the full damage
of the blow. Restore 1 point of stamina (i.e. instead
of doing 2 points of damage it has done only 1). If
you are unlucky, you have taken a more serious
blow. Subtract 1 extra STAMINA point.

Remember that you must subtract 1 point from your
own LUCK score each time you Test your Luck.

15
fF

Restoring Skill, Stamina, Luck and Fear

Your SKILL, STAMINA and LUCK scores may change
during your adventure. Your sx1Lt will increase
(from ‘Starting sKILv’) if you finda WEAPON. Your
STAMINA will drain as you fight creatures, and may
be restored by eating or resting as instructed by the
text. Your Luck will run out as you must deduct
one LUCK point each time you Test your Luck. Oc-
casionally a particularly lucky find or encounter
may restore some of your LUCK. Your FEAR score
is built up as you go through the adventure; each
time you get frightened, you will add to your FEAR
score. Occasionally, when you get the opportunity
to relax, the text may instruct you to deduct points
from your FEAR score.

Note that any bonuses you are awarded can never
be used to exceed your Initial sKILL, STAMINA and
LUCK scores, nor make your FEAR score a minus
number.

16
HINTS ON PLAY

There is one true way through the House of Helland
it will take you several attempts to find it. Make
notes and draw a map as you explore — this map will
be invaluable in future adventures and enable you
to progress rapidly through to unexplored sections.

Remember to make a note of any advice you receive;
and write down any messages or special reference
numbers you are given. Some rooms are death traps
and others are chambers of horror — be warned!

It will be realized that entries make no sense if read
in numerical order. It is essential that you read only
the entries you are instructed to read.

The one true way involves a minimum of risk and
any player, no matter how weak on initial dice rolls,
. should be able to get through fairly easily.

May the power of good go with you!

17
ADOEDTURE SHEET

SKILL STAMINA LUCK
Initial Initial Initial
Skill = Stamina = Luck =
Starting
Skill =
(Initial Skill
=3)

ITEMS OF EEAR

Current Fear

(Starts at zero):

NOTES

———

EVIL ENCOUNTER BOXES

Skill = Skill = Skill =
Stamina = Stamina = Stamina =
Skill = Skill = Skill =
Stamina = Stamina = Stamina =
Skill = Skill = Skill =
Stamina = Stamina = Stantina =
Skill = Skill = Skill =
Stamina = Stamina = Stamina =

Background

The rain spatters the windscreen relentlessly. You
can see no more than a watery gloom as you strain
forwards over the steering-wheel to see the road
ahead. Although the wipers flap valiantly, they are
fighting a losing battle, as the rain drives harder and
harder. Your foot eases off the accelerator; the head-
lights struggle to light up the road.

Danm! You curse the white-haired old man who
sent you off along this bumpy track. Probably he
meant the second turning on the left— or even a right
turning. The old fool. Perhaps this is his idea of a
joke. After all, didn’t you notice a mischievous glint
in his eye? Something vaguely sinister?

But what sort of nonsense is this? So you’ ve taken a
wrong turn and got caught in a downpour in the
night. The rain will ease off soon — it can’t possibly
keep up this deluge for long -—and then you'll be able
to... WATCH OUT!

You spin the wheel frantically to the left to avoid the
figure who, from nowhere, shows up in the head-
lights. The car bumps and jolts as it bounces over
the rocky roadside and thumps into a ditch.

You collect your thoughts. You are unhurt, but
shaken. Then you remember what has happened.
The body! You must have hit the figure which
appeared; there was no way you could have
avoided him. You spring out of the car, praying that
he is still alive.

20
Your clothes soak up the rain as you hobble back to
the road. In the darkness it is difficult to see any-
thing. But there is no sign of a body!

You consider the situation. Are you certain that it
was someone and not a trick of the light? Yes. You
can remember the arms held up in fright as the car
collided, and the look of anguish on his face. His
face! There was something familiar about that face. A
man you recognized. An old man; with white
hair...

Your heart leaps: no, impossible! With a shiver of fear
you race back to the car, jump inside, force the key
into the ignition and twist it violently! The starter
coughs, splutters and dies.

You hit the key again but this time a single shudder
is all the engine can manage. You grasp the wheel
with your hands and shake it desperately as if to
force some life into the car. But the battery is dead.
Your car is certainly not budging from the ditch
tonight.

Your situation is hopeless. But now the plight of
your car is paramount. Where can you get help? You
passed a garage at Mingleford, but that was some
twenty miles away.

21
As if in answer, a light appears in the distance.
Someone has switched on a bedroom light. What a
stroke of luck! It was at least fifteen miles back that
you passed the last house and you happen to have
broken down just a short distance from someone's
home.

You button up your coat and open the door. From
outside the car, you can see the building more
clearly. Just ahead, on the left, a drive winds up toa
large house. It is a good five minutes’ walk away.
And by the time you reach it, you will be drenched.
But how else can you call the garage? You can’t
afford to miss tomorrow’s appointment. No, go you
must. Anyway, you'll probably be able to dry off
inside after phoning the garage.

22
You slam the door, turn up your collar and set off for
the house. A flash of lightning lights it up clearly for
you but, in your preoccupation with the rain, the
warning from above is wasted on you. The house is
old—very old—and ina shocking state of repair. The
light in the window is flickering. Most likely an oil
lamp - certainly not electric. And you don’t notice a
fact that might have turned you back anyway: there
is no telephone line going to the house.

As you climb the steps to the front door, little do you
realize what fate has in store for you.

Tonight is going to be a night to remember . . .

NOW TURN OVER

23
1

You climb the creaking steps up to the front door
and pause to catch your breath. Even though you
ran all the way up the drive from the car, you are
soaked through; your feet are particularly wet.
Judging by the number of puddles you stepped into
in the dark, the drive needs a small fortune spend-
ing on repairs. But under the porch, you are out of
the storm, and you brush the rain from your clothes
before turning towards the door.

The rain is still pelting down, but an eerie silence
hangs in the air. No lights are on downstairs. You
step back off the porch to check the upstairs window
which attracted your attention earlier. Nothing. No
lights. The whole place seems to be deserted. But
then you remember the time - five minutes to
midnight. Everyone in the house has probably gone
to bed. An owl hoots in the distance and a shiver
runs down your spine. The situation is a little scary.
Here you are, in the middle of nowhere, at some
strange, run-down old house about to wake up
whoever lives inside, at midnight. They certainly
won't be too pleased. But you have no choice if you
are going to make your appointment tomorrow —
you must reach a telephone to call for help. You step
up to the front door.

From the left-hand side of the house, a dull glow
catches your attention. A light has been turned on!
You breathe a sigh of relief; at least someone is
awake. You consider your options: there is an elabo-
rate knocker in the middle of the door and a bell-pull
2-4

hanging down to the right. Will you rap the door
with the knocker (turn to 357), pull the cord (turn to
275), or creep round the house to investigate the
light (turn to 289)?

2
You may now proceed either by turning right and
trying the door of the Shaitan room (turn to 200), or
by turning left and following the passage, which
bears right past two rooms labelled Asmodeus and
Eblis and then rejoins the landing (turn to 272).

3

You grab the box and walk up to the mirror. You put
your hand through again and pull it back. It seems
safe enough. You step through. . . just in the nick
of time, for as you disappear into the mirror, you
hear the door open behind you. You find you are in
a small room behind the mirror. You decide to open
the leather box. Inside is a Golden Key, which you
putin your pocket. Now turn to 160.

4
‘Oh, a casual visitor, eh? Well, how do you like our
dungeon, friend? Pleasant enough for you, is it?
Having a good time? Bah! Into the cage with this
miserable wretch!’ The torturer’s men tighten their
grip on your wrists and frog-march you over to the
left-hand wall. ‘And we'll show our friend just how
hospitable we are,’ continues the torturer. ‘What
sort of accommodation would you like, friend? Do
you want to spend the rest of your life crouching
5-6

down or standing up?’ The torturer’s evil laugh
resounds around the room. What will your answer
be? Will you choose the tall cage (turn to 396) or the
box cage (turn to 201)?

5

The bedroom has been prepared for you. The room
is not large, but a huge mirror appears to double its
size. Crisp white sheets have been folded back on
the bed, and a warm fire burns in the fireplace. The
door closes as the butler leaves the room and you
walk over to the fire. Your situation is a little
worrying. If you don’t get going quickly, you will
never make your appointment; but if it is true that
there is no phone you can use, what else can you
do? Maybe you should just hang your wet clothes in
front of the fire and climb into bed (turn to 23); or
would you rather leave the room (turn to 59)?

6

The door slowly opens and you hold yourself close
to the wall. The man who enters is short and stocky
and appears to be bent double. He is not armed. He
peers into the room and scratches his head. Evident-
ly he has heard something and is perplexed at
finding nothing in the room. Will you step forward
and announce yourself (turn to 367) or keep hidden
and hope he leaves (turn to 25)?
79

7

The bell-push does not open a hidden panel, nor
reveal any other means of escape. As you touchit, a
joud bell starts ringing throughout the house! You
bury your head in your hands. In a few moments
you will be captured by the evil Earl of Drumer, his
devil-worshippers and servants. And this time you
will not escape . . .

8

You sit down in a solid, carved chair and look
around. The reception hall is certainly not what you
would have expected from the outside. It is elegant-
ly decorated with rich tapestries and fine oak
panels. A number of portraits line the walls. A
sturdy sixteenth-century table is set against one
wall. Will you wait for your host to arrive (turn to
277), study the paintings (turn to 304) or hunt for a
telephone (turn to 238)?

9
Resolve your battle with the Fire Sprites. They
attack you one ata time:

First FIRE SPRITE SKILL 7 STAMINA 4
Second FIRESPRITE = skILt7 STAMINA 3

Each time they wound you, you risk the added
danger of their flames touching you. You can either
deduct 3 STAMINA points instead of the normal 2, or
you may Test your Luck after each wound. A Lucky
roll means you manage to put out the flame before it
burns you (no stamina damage). An Unlucky roll
10

means you lose 4 STAMINA points instead of 3. If
you wish to Escape during the battle, turn to 218 —
but the Sprites will get in a last hit as you leave. If
you stay and fight them, turn to 375 if you win.

10
The Golden Key fits the lock and turns. The door
opens to let you into another small room. The dust
and cobwebs suggest that this room is very rarely
used, and it certainly looks fairly uninteresting. But
in the thick dust on the floor, you notice one foot-
print, then another. Someone has been in here

um

recently! The footprints lead towards the right-hand
wall, around the door. Behind a loose stone in the
wall, you find what it was that this visitor came to
hide — a large cast-iron key. You pick it up and
examine it. It is heavy and fairly crudely made, and
has the number 27 cast into it. You put this in your
pocket. Nothing else of interest seems to be in the
room, but you may add 2 Lucx points for this find.
Now you must leave the chamber. Turn to 204.

mW
As you pull the door to, your ears catch the sound of
another door opening. Someone is coming! You
grab the handle and nip into the room, closing the
door quietly behind you. You wait in the darkness.
The door you heard closes and all goes quiet. Is
someone lurking nearby? Turn to 385.

12-13

12

You rummage through the box but there is nothing
else hidden inside. The walls all feel solid except for
the one on the left-hand side, adjacent to the secret
entrance. You feel around and locate another secret
door, but you cannot feel a catch. Perhaps the same
password opens it. You try this, and the door starts
to open slowly, revealing another room. You stare
into this other room; it is almost an exact replica of
the one in which you are standing! It is completely
bare except for a table with a box resting on it.
Fascinating! Do you wish to step into this other
room (turn to 133) or leave it and return through
your original door to go upstairs (turn to 293)?

You step into the room and close the door behind
you. The room is empty and you heave a sigh of
relief, falling back against the door to catch your
breath. Will you rest in the room (turn to 372) or try
the window for a means of escape (turn to 107)?
14-16

14
The smell from within the room ‘catches you off
balance and stops you dead in your tracks. The
room itself is unexciting, with bare rocky walls and
floor. But strewn around the floor are the headless
bodies of five goats. Standing over the goats, feed-
ing ravenously on them, are three huge Great
Danes! As you enter the room, they turn towards
you, angry at having their meal interrupted. Their
mouths curl back and they snarl. The nearest dog
leaps towards you and you must fight it:

GREAT DANE SKILLZ STAMINA 5
If you defeat the dog, turn to 94.

15
You tug at the handle, but the door is locked. If you
have a key, turn to 212. If you do not have a key,
turn to 47.

16
‘A friend of the Master?’ snarls the torturer. ‘I have
not seen you before. And I know ali the Master's
friends.’ You teil him that you are new to this house,
and that is why you are wandering about, lost. The
torturer is not convinced by your story, but cannot
risk harming one of the Master's friends. ‘T'll tell you

17-18

what I'll do,’ he announces. ‘Idon’t believe you. But
I'll give you a chance. If you can convince me that
you are one of the Master's friends, I'll let you go.
But first you'll have to pass alittle test. Tie our friend
down, lads!’ The torturer’s assistants bundle you off
to the middle of the room and tie you on to the rack.
Turn to 381.

17

The two men snatch the box from you. One of them
pulls out a dagger! He snarls and lunges at you with
it. Although you leap out of the way, you must add
2F£aR points for the fright. The other man grabs his
friend’s wrist. ‘Do not waste your time. Hide the
box for the Master and I will deal with our visitor!’
The man with the dagger grunts in agreement and
backs towards the door. As he leaves the room, the
other advances. Resolve your fight with him:

THE MASTER’S SERVANT  sxILL8 STAMINA

If you defeat him, you may leave the room (turn to
131).

18
He tells you that there are all sorts of secrets in the
cellars. ‘. . . And some of them I just couldn’t tell

you. It would be more than my life’s worth. For the
Master would punish me. And I wouldn't like that.’
Needless to say, this only makes you more intri-
gued. But he will not be pressed on the subject. If
you have a weapon, you may draw it out and
threaten the Hunchback (turn to 191). If you have
19-20

any brandy, you may offer him a drink (turn to 93).
If you have neither of these, turn to 347.

19

You search the room, while the old woman
threatens you from her bed. You recognize some of
the plants, as most of them are common house-
plants. The woman's voice grows frantic as you
poke around in a herb garden by the window. A
thought dawns on you and you turn to her, threat-
ening to destroy her plants unless she is able to give
you the information you require. She shrieks at the
thought of you harming her plants and agrees.
What will you ask her:

How to find the man in grey? Turn to 388
About the secret rooms in
the house? Turn to 321
What tonight's ‘festivities’
are? Turn to 283
20

As his slaves fall dead on the floor, the Vampire
tises to his feet, ready to finish you off. You quickly
hold up your garlic and he stands his ground. But
what can you do now? You may either try the other
door (turn to 270) or head back for the entrance door
(turn to go).

21-24

21
You walk along the passageway. Do you want to try
the door on the left (turn to 259) or the door on the
right (turn to 118)?

22
‘Lies!’ he snarls, in response to your explanation.
‘You are like all the others in this house. I must
destroy you all!’ Shouting this warning, he leaps
towards you. Turn to 271.

23
The bed is warm and comfortable and you soon drift
off to sleep. Strange and disturbing thoughts drift
through your mind and you wake suddenly in a
cold sweat. A noise has disturbed you and you
realize that it was the sound of the door closing. You
look around the room and notice a glass containing
a clear liquid by the side of your bed. Someone has
brought you a bedtime drink! You spring out of bed and
try the door, but itis locked. Do you wish to swallow
the drink that has been brought for you (turn to 45)
or will you try to break down the door (turn to 128)?

24
The door opens and you find yourself in a small
room. There is another door leading off the room.
But in front of you is a strange sight which catches
your attention. A shimmering haze seems to be
hanging on the wall, almost like a curtain of spark-
ling water. You step up to investigate and gingerly
hold out your finger to touch it. Your finger passes
25-26

tight through! Plucking up your courage, you poke
your head into the haze. On the other side, you
realize what has happened. Your head has emerged
through a large mirror into a reception room. On the
wall opposite is a huge mural of a country scene and
standing in the middle of the room are a table and
six chairs. The sound of voices outside the door
startles you and you draw your head back. Will you
wait until the way is clear and step through the
mirror (turn to 349), try the other door in this little
room behind the mirror (turn to 294) or will you
instead go back to the stairs and follow them down
(turn to 216)?

25
The little man stares once more into the room,
shrugs his shoulders and leaves, closing the door
behind him. You are alone again. After waiting a
few minutes, you decide to leave the room. Turn to
116.

26
There is another door a couple of metres up the
landing on the left. This is the door to the Mephisto
room. If you wish to enter, turn to 298. Otherwise
you may pass it and head towards two doors in the
corner of the landing (turn to 287).

27-28

27

You draw back the curtains and peer outside. The
light in the room makes it difficult to see, so you pull
the curtains behind you. With your face pressed
against the bars, you look through the window.
There is a rumble of thunder in the distance and the
rain is still beating down, making it difficult to see
anything. A fork of lightning flashes down from the
sky and lights up a sight which makes you cry out
loud! Outside your window, dripping wet and
swaying in the wind, is a ghastly face! A long-dead
figure, hanging in a noose, is staring at you with
lifeless eyes. You step back and fling the curtains
shut to hide the horrendous sight. The face is famil-
iar. The old man in the village! You must add 3 FEAR
points. What will you do now? Will you dive into
bed and sleep through the night (turn to 231) or run
out on to the landing (turn to 121)?

28
The Ear] of Drumer is the last survivor of his family.
His estate stretches for miles around the house. At
one time the estate was prosperous, with many

| 29-30

tenant farmers cultivating his land and providing a
healthy income for his family. But things started to
change. His sister died at the age of thirty-two
under mysterious circumstances. She was found
dead in a clearing in the woods with strange marks
on her neck. News travelled fast, and the ignorant
peasants started muttering about witchcraft and
black magic. In their eyes, the house was cursed.
Pure superstitious nonsense, of course, but gra-
dually the farmers moved to new pastures, avoiding
the estate.

By now you have finished your meal. Franklins
returns to offer you fruit, cheese, coffee and brandy.

Will you take:
Fruit, coffee and brandy? Turn to 224
Cheese, coffee and brandy? Turn to 74
Just cheese and coffee? Turn to 319

29
As the Ghoul slumps to the floor, it falls against a
rack of pans hanging on the wall. The pans clatter to
the floor; the noise is deafening! Have you been
heard? Turn to 254 to find out.

30

Resolve your battle with the Earl of Drumer. If you
are using the Kris knife, add 3 points to your SKILL
during the fight:

THE EARL OF DRUMER sKILL9 STAMINA 10

If you win, turn to 288.
31-34

31
As you scramble for the door, you slip in a poot of
goat’s blood and slither on to the floor. The dogs
seize their chance and spring on top of you. Turn to
78 and fight the dogs. But because you are at a
disadvantage, having fallen over, you must deduct
2 from your Attack Strength for the first four Attack
Rounds.

32
You draw your weapon and advance. The man
jumps back at the sight of it, but you stride closer.
As you prepare to strike, a sly smile spreads across
his face. Turn to 326.

33
A short distance further along the balcony you
arrive at a door with Azazel written on the name-
plate. If you wish to try this door, turn to 358. If you
would prefer to continue, turning to the left and
following the landing, turn to 229.

34
How good are your powers of persuasion? Throw

two dice and compare the total with your skILL
score. If you roll a number equal to or less than your
SKILL score, turn to 177. If you roll a number greater
than your SKILL score, turn to 22.
357-37

35
Your eyes light up as the lid falls back. The box is
lined with red velvet and there in the middle is a
pearl-handled dagger. Its silver blade is wavy but it
is finely polished and razor-sharp. An inscription in
the wooden top reads:

The Kris Knife
A blade fashioned for the glorification and pleasure of the
Demons of Hellfire — our true Masters. To be used only by
Initiates. Never to be wielded in the presence of the
Masters.

A sense of awe fills you as you pick up the knife.
You turn it over tenderly in your hands and then
place it in your pocket. For this find you may add 3
LUCK points. Now you must decide what to do next.
Will you leave the way you entered and climb the
stairs to the ground floor (turn to 293) or will you
search the room thoroughly first (turn to 12)?

36
You may now leave the food store. Will you try the
door opposite (turn to 305) or retrace your steps
along the passageway (turn to 366)?

37
You study the portrait of ‘The Duke of Brewster:
1763-1828’. A rather elegant sort of chap, you think
as you stare at him. But suddenly you jump back!
You could swear you saw his eyes move! A moment
38-40

later, your suspicions are confirmed. His eyes are
definitely moving, directing your attention towards
one of the doors in the hall. What is happening?
Your car breaks down and suddenly you are in an
elegantly decorated derelict house, with moving
portraits! Will you sit back in the chair and wait for
your host to return (turn to 277) or try the handle on
the door that the portrait is looking at (turn to 391)?
You may, if you wish, look at another painting by
turning to 250.

38
The first letter Orville gives you is D. You must start
writing straight away, or you will have to deduct 1
point from your sraMINA score as Dirk tightens the
rack, When you are ready, turn to 352.

39
With a superhuman effort, you beat down the
hypnotic power of the eye and slam the book shut.
Replacing it on the shelf, you rub your eyes.
Although a little dazed, you are safe. But you decide
to leave this room without delay. Turn to 54.

40
The box rattles when you touch it. There is some-
thing solid inside. You undo the catch and open the
lid. Inside you find a small key. You try the key in
the door and it fits! The key turns and unlocks the
door, allowing you to leave the room. You find you
41-42

are in the corner of the landing, and there is an
unmarked door to your left. If you wish to go
through it, turn to 86. Straight ahead, you can see
the main staircase leading downwards. If you wish
to go this way, turn to 193.

41
Starting at the far end, you examine the cupboards.
You open the first door and find it is a wardrobe
with dresses and blouses hanging inside. You open
the second door — and spring backwards in fright!
For inside, partly dressed in tattered clothes, are
two SKELETONS. Having disturbed them by
opening the door, they are coming to life before
your eyes and advancing to attack! You must add 2
FEAR points for the fright and then fight them, one
ata time:

First SKELETON SKILL6 STAMINA 6
Second SKELETON SKILL 7 STAMINA 6

If you defeat the Skeletons, you may either look
around the room (turn to 338) or leave (tum to 243).

42
The hallway narrows by the stairs and widens again
further on. You may turn left here (turn to 316), or
follow the hallway round to the right and try the
first door on the right (turn to 217).

43-45

43

Starting at the far end, you examine the cupboards.
You open the first door and find it is a wardrobe
with dresses and blouses hanging inside. You open
the second door — and spring backwards in fright!
For inside, partly dressed in tattered clothes, are
two SKELETONS. Having disturbed them by
opening the door, they are coming to life before
your eyes and advancing to attack! You must add 2
FEAR points for the shock and you must now fight
them, one at a time:

First SKELETON SKILL 6 STAMINA 6
Second SKELETON SKILL 7 STAMINA 6

If you defeat the Skeletons, you may look through
the cupboards before you leave. Turn to 368.

44

The door is not locked. You open it cautiously and
poke your head inside. You have found a food store
of some kind; the room is lined with shelves with
various foodstuffs on them. Bread, dried meats,
cheese, fruit, dried fish, wine (red and white) and
cakes are all neatly stacked on the shelves. If you
need to restore some of your STAMINA, you may
choose any of these to eat. Note which you take,
then turn to 227. If you would rather not risk taking
any of them, turn instead to 36.

45
The liquid has a slightly sweet taste, like water with
a spoonful of sugar dissolved in it. But your mouth
46-48

is dry from your sleep and you drink it down. You
lie back, thinking about your visitor. You decide it
was probably Franklins, the butler. It was nice of
him to bring you a drink, but why has he locked the
door? Again, you start to feel tired, and you curl up
on the bed. Your head starts to swim and the room
spins round. Too late, you realize that you have
been drugged! Although you try your best to fight
the feeling, it is no use. Consciousness fades . . .
Turn to 173.

46
Do you have any garlic with you? If so, turn to 361. If
you have a gold ring edged with rubies, turn to 135.
If you have both of these, you may choose to use
either. If you have neither, choose another weapon
and turn to 32.

47
Where would you like to go next? The Shaitan room
at the end of the passage (turn to 200), the Mammon
room opposite (turn to 123), or would you rather
turn back down the passageway and follow the
landing round (turn to 272)?

48
You step into the small room. Glancing round to
make sure you are safe, you walk up to the table.
The rest of the room is bare, except for the table and
the box which rests on it. Could this be the one you
are looking for? It is a handsome rectangular box
made of wood with brass fastenings. It looks like a
49-52

case for a pair of duelling pistols. You undo the
catch and flip back the lid. Turn to 35.

49
You have a choice of three doors here. Will you go
through the door at the end of the passageway (turn
to 195), try the door on the left (turn to 307) or try the
door on the right (turn to 217)?

50
Your groping hand touches a piece of wood. You
feel it and find that it is a length of branch about the
size of a baseball bat. If you use this in a fight, it will
countas a WEAPON (add 3 ski11 points). Now you
must return to the matter of your visitor. Will you
attack as soon as the door opens (turn to 183) or will
you keep the stick hidden and wait to see what
comes through the door (turn to 263)?

51
If you wish to look for secret doorways, turn to 276.
Otherwise return to the last reference and choose
again.

52
The Hell Demon steps forward and slashes at you
with its claws, catching your arm with such force
that it breaks. You shriek and clutch your injured
arm, now useless in the battle. But your agony will
be short-lived. For nothing you can do will defeat
this unearthly creature. The battle - and your life —
will shortly come toanend...
53-55

53
You try to spring aside, but the chair is too quick for
you. It smacks into your shin, causing you to howl
in pain. Lose 2 STAMINA points and also add 1 FEAR
point for the unnerving experience. You had better
leave the room before the POLTERGEIST injures
you more seriously! Turn to 2.

54
There are two doors leading out of the study. Did

you enter from the drawing-room? If so, you can
leave through the other door (turn to 247). If you
entered from the hallway, you may now leave
through the other door by turning to 353.

55

‘Tonight?’ she croaks. ‘Let's see. Ah yes, there is a
ceremony tonight. Brother Samuelson — no, I think
it’s Isaacson — will be receiving the Master's bless-
ing. If I were you I'd stay well away from the
ceremony, though. They don’t like onlookers.’ She
coughs a little and her eyes close, as if the strain of
talking was too much for her. You consider her
words and leave her in peace, heading for the door.
Turn to 159.

om = -. . .
sion adi
Renee rem Ts

56-59

56
As the fight starts, you can see that he is not bent
double at all - he is a HUNCHBACK! Now resolve
your battle with him:

HUNCHBACK SKILL7 STAMINA 7
After three Attack Rounds, turn to 72.

57
‘Come, come, Orville. Let’s have another.’ Orville
thinks again and this time says ‘K!’ Write your
answer quickly, or deduct another stamina point.
Turn to 333.

58
The hallway widens. You walk across to another
hallway and continue in the direction you were
walking until you reach two doors opposite each
other. Will you try the door on the right (turn to 118)
or the door on the left (turn to 323)?

59
The door is locked! It seems that your hosts certainly
don’t want you prowling around the house. Do you
want to try to break down the door (turn to 79), or
climb into bed (turn to 23)? If you prefer, you could
pretend to go to bed, switch out the light and wait to
see what happens (turn to 63).

60-62

60
There seems to be no other way out of the passage.
Even the panel through which you entered has now
closed up. A bell-push is set in the wall and, hoping
that this will reveal some way out, you push it. Turn
to7.

61
There is nothing unusual under the stairs, although
some of the bricks in the wall look as if they have
been replaced recently. You may either look in the
bats’ corner (turn to 165), along the back wall (turn
to 356) or climb the stairs to the door above (turn to

293).

62

The collection contains many invaluable first edi-
tions and obscure works in strange languages. The
Earl of Drumer has a disturbingly large collection of
books on black magic and many volumes on hyp-
notism. Do you want to look at any of them? If so,
will you choose a book on Black Magic (turn to 156)
or a book on Hypnotism (turn to 384)?

63-64

63

You wait in the darkness. Apart from the rain
driving against the window, the house is silent.
How long will you have to wait before someone
appears? All night? The thought of sitting in the
darkness all night makes you a little uneasy and you
must add 1 FEAR point. But then you hear a shuf-
fling noise in the corridor outside your room. Turn
to 158.

64

The Fire Sprites follow you as you back towards the
window. Pretending to be terrified, you make for
one of the plant-pot stands and attempt to hide
behind it. But when the Sprites are near enough,
you strike! Grabbing the large plant-pot on top of
the stand, you hurl the contents over the little
creatures! The soil covers them and douses their
flames; in an instant they have disappeared. Turn
now to 375.
65-66

65

‘The man in grey? Who is he? You'll have to forgive
me, stranger. As you can imagine, it is some time
since I wandered round the house. I don’t even
know who is here any more. Except, of course, the
Earl and his manservant, Franklins. But a man in
grey ... Wait! I know who he might be! In the
cellars, a man is being held captive in a room oppo-
site the food store. Could this be the man in grey? I
thought he wore white. Perhaps he’s a little dirtier
now.’ Her voice fades, as if the conversation was too
much of a strain for her. You decide to leave her and
head for the door. Turn to 159.

66
You hold up your pentacle before them and com-
mand them to step back to allow you to pass. Gasps
come from the crowd as they see the pentacle. But
its power cannot be denied. They watch power-
lessly as you back down the other passageway and
open the door at the end. Turn to 232.

67

The dagger is no use to you in this predicament; but
what about the flask of liquid? You hold it up and
study the contents. The swirling black liquid is thick
and oily. Rainbow patterns and reflections play
tricks on your eyes. You could swear you were
looking straight into a pair of dark eyes inside the
flask! But you swirl the liquid once more and the
image disappears. You imagine that you have no-
thing to lose by opening the flask, so you remove
the stopper. What happens next is instantaneous!
As soon as the stopper leaves the neck of the flask,
the liquid turns into a billowing black smoke, which
hisses out and fills the room. The room goes black
instantly, Just as quickly, the smoke is sucked back
into the flask and the stopper reappears in position.
All is as before, with one exception. You are no
longer in the room! Your body has been sucked into
the flask by the NANKA ~ a type of Evil Genie —
living inside it. Your adventure ends here.
68

68

The younger man turns to the older one and angrily
says, ‘The Master's teachings are not for the faint-
hearted. You know of his power and his promises to
us all. Perhaps you are no longer strong enough to
stay with us.’ The older man turns away, towards
the window. He is hiding the look on his face, which
is one of nervousness and fear. He realizes that he
has said the wrong thing. ‘No,’ he stammers, ‘I'll be
all right. Just a momentary weakness. Come, let us
get on with the preparations.’ Together the two men
leave the kitchen, blowing out the candles on the
way. You wonder what they were talking about.
Now you must choose your next move. Will you try
the kitchen door to see whether you can sneak
inside (turn to 306) or go back round to the front and
knock on the door (turn to 357)?

69-70

69

You step inside and close the door quietly behind
you. A soft click comes from the lock. As you step
forward, a voice greets you. You look around but
you can see no one! The voice continues: ‘So! Our
visitor is inquisitive, eh? Or are you trying to leave
the house? Perhaps our hospitality is not to your
liking. Maybe you would like to see some more —
shall we say — amusements?’ The eerie voice makes
younervous. Add 1 FEAR point. Do you wish to stay
and talk to the voice (turn to 291) or will you make a
hasty exit back through the door (turn to 120)?

70

You walk over slowly and reach out for the sheet. It
now hangs in the air well above the box it was
covering. You grip it in your hand and tug it down-
wards. It snaps, confirming your suspicions. The
sheet was being pulled by a thin strand of string.
You breathe a sigh of relief (you may deduct the
FEAR point you had just taken). But who, or what,
was pulling the sheet? You decide not to wait to find
out. Leave the room by turning to 329.
71-73

71
You open the door and cast your eyes over the room
inside. The floor is dusty and the rocky walls are
bare. A rough wooden table and chair are placed
against one wall. Sitting at the table is a worried-
looking man wearing a white robe. A goat’s head
mask lies on the table. ‘Hello,’ he says, nervously.
‘All hail the Master, Iam ready to repent. How is the
ceremony progressing? Er, um, is it my turn yet?’
Then he leans forward and whispers to you: ‘Iam not
4 poor man. Help me to escape from this house and you will
be generously rewarded.’ What do you make ofall this?
Will you tell him the truth about yourself (turn to
214), or will you remain emotionless and let him
continue (turn to 334)?

72
Have you come across this Hunchback before? If so,
turn to 138. If not, turn to 164.

73
To enter the room, she passes right through the
door! You, of course, must use more traditional
methods; you turn the handle and walk into the
Apollyon room. It is an elegant bedroom. Fine
floor-length curtains hang along one wall. An enor-
mous bed with lace coverings is against another
wall; and opposite stands a beautiful dressing-table
with a huge mirror. The woman hovers in the centre
of the room and bids you to sit down on the bed.
“Your coming here has been no accident,’ she starts.
‘And I must warn you of the terrible dangers you
73

will face here. This house is ruled by the Master, a
powerful Black Priest of the Night, named Kelnor,
Earl of Drumer. I would guess that you are to be
offered to the Demons of Hellfire, if you survive that
long. Yesterday they trapped a girl, a pretty young
district nurse who happened to call. She is to be
offered tonight. I cannot let this devilry continue!
There must be some way it can be stopped! If you
can find the Kris knife, you might defeat Kelnor, for
this weapon is his only weakness. Please help me!
You will probably find itin . . . No! Quick! We are
discovered. I can hear the Hounds. Go! Leave this
room!’ You stand up. She was right! You can hear
barking getting rapidly closer. She motions to you,
pointing at the door. You run to the door and peer
outside. Nothing. The barking gets louder and you
turn back towards the Ghost, who seems to be
struggling with something. She is involved ina fight
with two huge ghostly Great Danes which are snap-
ping and clawing at her. You take a step forwards,
but it is hopeless. You cannot help, as you cannot
even touch the beasts. And your help would have
been very welcome, because the dogs are much too
powerful for her. She is weakening and, as she does
so, her image fades. Moments later she disappears
completely. Satisfied that their job has been done,
the two Great Danes disappear also. You are alone.
Now what will you do? Do you want to help her as
she asked (turn to 257), or would you rather just
escape from the house (turn to 346)?
74

74

You finish off your meal. The Ear! rises to his feet,
saying: ‘Our conversation has been most enjoyable,
but now you must be very tired. Franklins will show
you to your room. Let us retire.’ You stand up. He’s
right, youare tired, and it is well past midnight. You
stumble and reach out to steady yourself against the
table. Phew! You didn’t realize you were that tired.
Or have you had a little too much to drink? Your
head is spinning; and the voice of your host be-
comes part of a background noise which is getting
louder and louder in your ears. Eventually you
collapse to the ground and lose consciousness . . .
Turn to 173.

75-76

75
‘Escape from this house?’ he laughs. ‘Would that we
could both escape from this place! I will find my own
way out, as I have a mission to complete before I
leave. You may choose your own escape-route,
though none is safe. The front door is at the foot of
the staircase. As you no doubt entered that way,
you could try leaving by it; or perhaps you could
leap from the window? Unfortunately most of them
are barred. There is a secret passageway through
the cellar which leads outside, but the chances of
finding it are slim. Anyway, my thanks forreleasing
me. We will part company here.’ The man peers
round the door to check the passageway, then
leaves the room. You may either leave after him
(turn to 378) or walk over to the table and boxes to
examine them (turn to 213).

76
Orville has been practising his next letter and blurts
it out excitedly. Sis his choice. Write immediately or
lose a STAMINA point, then turn to 345.
77-79

77
You try the doorknob, but it will not move! You are
locked in the room. A shiver of anxiety comes over
you. Add 1 Fear point. Unless you can find a way
out, you are trapped. Perhaps there may be a clue in
the box on the mantelpiece. Turn to qo.

78
Resolve your fight. The dogs attack one at a time:

Second GREAT DANE SKILL6 STAMINA 6
Third GREAT DANE SKILL 6 STAMINA 5

If you defeat both of them, turn to 383.

79
Roll two dice and compare the total with your sKTLL
score. If itis higher than your sKILL score (use your
Initial sxiL1 score), turn to 106. If it is equal to or
lower than your SKILL score, turn to 128.

80-81

80
You look around the chamber. Another passageway
leads from the chamber. If you choose your moment
carefully, you may be able to reach it without being
noticed. Will you move quietly along the wall to-
wards it (turn to 187) or will you instead watch the
proceedings (turn to 314)?

81

In a drawer underneath the bench you find a few
ornate letter-openers. Perhaps they are someone’s
collection? You are particularly interested because
they are strong and dagger-like. In fact they could
easily make dangerous weapons. You may take one
of them if you wish, and asa WEAPON it will allow
your SKILL score to increase to its Initial value if you
use it in a fight. Now turn to 385.

82-84

82
There is no way you will find of opening the door, as
it will only open and shut at the command of the
Earl of Drumer. You are now his prisoner and will
remain trapped for the rest of your life within these
four walls.

83
Various items of crockery, cutlery and food are kept
in the storeroom, including a sharp meat-knife,
which you might like to hide under your coat to use
as a WEAPON in the future. This sharp knife will
allow you to add 3 sKILL points in a fight. On one
shelf you find several cloves of garlic which you may
also take. There is also an unlabelled bottle of white
liquid on another shelf. If you wish to drink the
liquid, turn to 362. If you would prefer to ignore the
liquid and try the door at the back of the storeroom,
turn to 255. Your only other alternative is to leave by
the door you entered and return to the landing (turn

to 233).

84
There is nothing special about this food. Turn to 36.
85-86

85

The little carving moves to reveal a button set in the
mantelpiece behind it. You consider whether or not
to press the button. As you are deep in thought, you
do not notice what is happening to the fire. In the
grate, the fire has come back to life! Strong flames
are licking the chimney and considerable heat is
being given off. You feel the heat and step back-
wards. As you do so, two small figures leap from the
fire and face you. These FIRE SPRITES are small —
they come up to your knees — but their flaming
bodies burn with the vigour of the fire from which
they arose. They hover in the air just above the
carpet; for if they touch anything, it bursts into
flame. Do you wish to fight these creatures (turn to
9) or will you try another approach (turn to 145)?

86

The door opens into a narrow passageway which
ends at a window. There is a door half-way along
the left-hand side, and a sign on the door identifies
it as the Diabolus room. If you wish to try this door,
turn to 13. If you wish to investigate the window
instead, turn to 110. If you’re not keen to do either
and would prefer to go back through the door and
continue along the landing, turn to 193.

87-88

87
The door bursts open! Two white-robed men enter.
At least, you presume they are men, but their faces
are hidden behind masks made out of goats’ heads.
They carry knives and leap forward to attack; one
attacks you and the other attacks your comrade.
Resolve your own fight first:

DEVIL-WORSHIPPER SKILL 8 STAMINA 7
If you defeat him, turn to 178.

88
She curses. ‘Damn you, stranger,’ she hisses. ‘All

right then, I will answer your question.’ Which
question did you ask her?

How to find the man in grey? Turn to 65
About the secret rooms in
the house? Turn to 295

What tonight's ‘festivities’
are? Turn to 55

89-92

89

You follow the stairs downwards. Running across
the bottom is a passageway. You turn right and
follow it until you reach a dead end with two doors
facing each other on opposite sides of the wall. Will
you try the door on the left (turn to 305), the door on
the right (turn to 44) or will you turn around and
head back the way you came (turn to 366)?

go
You fling your garlic at the Vampire and dash for the
door. He shrieks as he tries to brush it off, but this
will at least keep him occupied for a few moments
more. However, your luck is out. The door is lock-
ed! And the Vampire is now striding towards you,
his eyes firmly fixed on yours. Do you have a gold
ring edged with rubies? If so, turn to 135. Other-
wise, turn to 326.

91
Further up the passage is another door in the right-
hand wail. If you wish to try this door, turn to 112. If
you want to pass it and continue along the corridor,
turn to 393.

92
The door opens on to a dark landing. A flight of
stairs arrives at this landing and continues down-
wards. Will you follow the stairs down (turn to 216)
or would you rather close the door and step back
through the mirror (turn to 349)?
93

93
His eyes light up at the sight of the brandy. You

poura little into the cap of the hip-flask and pass it to
him. He gulps it down and licks his lips. After two
more capfuls, he is definitely slurring his speech.
You tell him that you have heard of secret passage-
ways in the cellar and that you would be very
interested in being shown around by someone as
knowledgeable as he is. Your flattery, and the bran-
dy, have their desired effect. Proudly he tells you all
about his cellars — much more than he should. ‘Of
course, not everyone can get round these cellars,’ he
boasts. ‘You've got to know the password to get
through some of the secret doors. And the Master
keeps changing the password to protect his secrets.
In fact only yesterday he changed the password
from Pravemi to. . . Oh, what was it now? It’s on
the tip of my tongue. Ach, | should remember it
because itis like the name of the house, but mixed up!
My mind’s mixed up! It must be you and your
brandy!’ He steps back, realizing that he’s said
enough. You try asking him more, but he will not
speak. Instead he turns towards the door in the
left-hand wall and leaves you, pointing down the
passageway and mumbling something about up-
stairs. Turn to 393 to follow the passageway or 166 to
look around.

94-95

94
The other two Great Danes snarl and advance to-
wards you. If you wish to fight them, turn to 78. If
you wish to escape, you must Test your Luck, If you
are Lucky, turn to 240. If you are Unlucky, turn to
31.

95
The door opens wide and the older man peers out at
you before inviting you in. The two men listen as
you tell them of your accident. ‘Well, that is a stroke
of bad luck,’ says the older man, ‘but I dare say
Franklins will be able to help. Go and fetch him,
Brother William.’ At the mention of his name, the
younger man glares at his companion, but never-
theless leaves the kitchen. You ask your host what
sort of place this is and whether he and Brother

95

William are members of a religious group. ‘Some-
thing like that,’ he replies. ‘In fact you have arrived
at an awkward time. For tonight . . .’ he hesitates
nervously, ‘tonight is . . .’ His sentence is inter-
rupted by the arrival of Brother William and a tall
man dressed in a black suit with long tails. You
explain your arrival to Franklins. ‘We do not wel-
come visitors here,’ says Franklins solemnly, ‘but I
will introduce you to the master of the house who
will decide whether we can help. Follow me.’ He
leads you out through the kitchen along a hallway to
a reception hall and points to a seat. ‘Wait here
while I tell the Earl,’ he orders, then he disappears
through a doorway. Turn to 8.

96-97

96

The Earl rings for his butler, who appears in the
room immediately. ‘Franklins, our guest has de-
cided not to eat. Our hospitality has been refused.
Deal with the situation!’ The butler nods and
touches a button on the back of your chair. Clasps
appear from the arms and snap closed across your
wrists, holding you in place! You squirm to free
yourself, but you cannot break their grip. Mean-
while, the butler has pulled a handkerchief out of
his pocket and is shaking a pungent liquid into it
from a glass bottle. You cannot avoid it as he holds
the cloth over your mouth. Chloroform! You begin to
lose consciousness. . . Turn to 173.

97
You try the handle without success. The door is

firmly locked and you decide to follow the hallway
instead. Where the hallway widens, you may either
turn left (turn to 316) or follow the hallway round to
the right and try the door immediately on the right
(turn to 217).
98-100

98

You open the door cautiously at first, but all you can
see is darkness, so you swing it wide open.
Aaatieeeee! You scream out loud as a body tumbles
forward on top of you! The body is that of an old
man and, judging by the expression on his face, his
death was not a pleasant one. You must add 3 FEAR
points. You panic and run off round the landing.
Turn to 374.

99

As the lid falls back, your eyes light up. Inside the
box is a pearl-handled dagger! You reach down and
pick up the dagger, admiring its workmanship. But
the dagger was not the only thing in the box. Lying
underneath it is a flask, which contains a black
liquid. You can take this with you if you wish. You
slide the dagger into your pocket and turn towards
the door. But your heart sinks as the door slams shut
in front of you! You try to open it, but there is no
handle. Will you search the room for a way of
opening the door (turn to 82) or will you see
whether the dagger or the flask of liquid can help
(turn to 67)?

100
You shut the secret compartment and nip quickly
behind the curtains. Moments later the door opens
and your hear footsteps coming into the room. Two
men enter, in the middle of a heated discussion.
Although you can hear only part of the conversa-
tion, they are talking about a ceremony which
101-103

involves a human sacrifice! You swallow hard and
hope that you are not likely to get involved in it; but
add 1 FEAR point for the thought. You keep motion-
less behind the curtains. Sure enough, the men
walk up to the table. You hear a faint click and a
drawer slides open. Then the men turn and leave
the room. When it is safe, you come out of your
hiding-place and check the compartment. They
have taken the leather box with them. Will you now
leave through the door (turn to 131) or through the
mirror (turn to 160)?

101
In the nick of time, you spring aside as the chair
speeds past you and crashes into the wall behind.
You escape injury, but you must add 1 FEAR point.
You had better now leave the room before the
POLTERGEIST inside does you some real damage!
Turn to 2.

102

The passageway is narrow and only the faintest
glow lights your way. After a short distance you
come to a staircase which leads downwards. Slowly
and cautiously you go down the stairs. After a
dozen or so steps, you reach another landing. The
stairs continue downwards at the landing and you
may either follow them down (turn to 216), or you
may try a door in the wall of the landing (turn to 24).

103
You open the door slowly and carefully. The room
104-105

you enter is a bedroom which looks as though it is
waiting for someone to come in and go to bed! The
sheets are folded back, the fire in the fireplace is
warm but dying. On the bedside table a candle is
burning and next to it is a silver tray with a bedtime
snack on it. Velvet curtains are pulled across the
window, and along the left-hand wall are fitted-
cupboards. The overall picture is quite cosy. Will
you enter the room and investigate the bedside table
(turn to 163) or the cupboards (turn to 41), or are you
a little suspicious of the apparent tranquillity of this
room and would prefer to leave (turn to 243)?

104

You feel a stab of pain in your back. You reach out to
grip the wound and blood oozes through your
fingers! Even though his master is dead, Franklins
will fight on! You turn round to face the butler
before he can attack again with his knife. Deduct 4
STAMINA points and turn to 180.

105

‘Defeat the Master, eh?’ he says, watching you
carefully. ‘My word, our friend certainly cannot be
said to have modest ambitions! You will never de-
feat the Master, for he has only one weakness. He
may only be killed with the Kris knife, and that is
hidden in a room witha secret entrance. I know only
that the room is downstairs and that you will needa
password to open it. But I do not know what the
password is. Old Mordana knew the password, but
she died some time ago. If you know what's best for
106-107

you, you will leave while you can.’ You ask him
whether the two of you should leave together, but
he shakes his head. ‘I cannot leave here without
seeking my revenge — or dying in the attempt. I
must leave you now.’ He checks the passageway,
then nips out. Will you follow him (turn to 378) or
will you first check the table and the boxes (turn to
213)?

106
You charge at the door with your shoulder. The
door shudders but holds firm and you are left
nursing an aching shoulder. Deduct 2 sTaMINA
points. You realize that the door is made of solid
wood and you are unlikely to break it open without
doing yourself an injury. Turn to 158.

107
You walk over to the curtains and part them slowly.
Outside, the storm is still raging. Thunder rolls
across the sky and rain rattles against the window.
The window is barred. There is no way out here.
Turn to 168.

108-109

108

The hallway widens. To your left, there is a passage
with two doors facing each other across it. To go this
way, turn to 21. If you don’t want to go this way,
you can walk on a couple of metres and turn right
into a passageway which runs past two doors facing
each other and endsat another door. To go this way,
turn to 49.

109
Can you defeat the demon which now stands before
you? If not, it will certainly kill you. But you have
with you the Kris knife, the only weapon which will
harm the creature. You may add 6 points to your
SKILL score while using this weapon. Now resolve
this battle:

HELL DEMON SKILL 14 STAMINA 12
If you win the fight, turn to goo.
110

110

Curtains are drawn across the window, and you
approach cautiously. You gingerly pat the folds in
the curtain and are relieved to find nothing there.
Although they seem to be safe, you are still on your
guard as you draw them apart. As you do so, a
thunderclap booms outside and makes you jump.
But you are safe; a perfectly ordinary window is
uncovered. However, the heavy iron bars on the
outside are a little worrying. Through the window
you can see nothing but the rain running down the
pane of glass. But curiously, the rain is avoiding one
area, Could it be that the wind is blowing the rain
away from this corner? You bend down to take a
closer look. Written in the condensation which has
formed on the glass is a message! You read three
words: ‘Mordana in Abaddon’. You repeat this mes-
sage to yourself and then rub it off the window, in
case anyone else should see it. This message may be
useful to you (and you will realize when it is). If,
later in the adventure, you want to use the message,
turn to reference 88. Do not turn to 88 now! Now you
must head back to the landing and turn left. Turn to

193.

111

111

Your host is a little annoyed by your nervousness.
‘Come, come,’ he says, ‘there’s no need to be afraid.
Has your little accident caused you to lose your
nerve? Drink your brandy. You'll soon forget your
fears.’ As you watch him, your mind begins to play
tricks on you. Is his expression one of genuine
concern for your welfare, or is there a hint of some-
thing secretive in his eyes and smile? You shiver,
and your fear of the situation is evident. Add 1 FEAR
point. A short while later, Franklins appears. ‘Your
mealis served, sir,’ he says to the Earl. You both rise
and go through to the dining-room. Turn to 309.

112-113

112

The door opens wide. You are about to step inside
but hesitate when you see what lies within: You are
entering an underground torture room. In one cor-
ner stands a formidable iron maiden, its deadly door
standing ajar. A stretching rack is in the centre of the
room. Hanging from the ceiling along the left-hand
wall are two cages. One is just about large enough
fora man to crouch in and the other willallow aman
to stand up but not move about. A shiver runs down
your spine. Suddenly, two pairs of hands grab your
wrists and you are shoved forward into the room!
From behind the door steps a broad-shouldered
man with powerful arms. He is dressed in a leather
apron and trousers and wears a patch across his left
eye. ‘So!’ he exclaims. ‘And who do we have here,
trespassing in our house? Come on, speak up. Have
you lost your tongue?’ What will your answer be?
Will you tell him you are trying to find your way out
and will be happy to leave straight away (turn to 4)
or will you claim to be one of the Master's friends
(turn to 16)?

113
The room you enter is a reception room. A table and
six chairs stand in the centre of the room. At one end
is an enormous mural of a country scene, perhaps
painted of the area, many years ago. On the oppo-
site wall, stretching from the floor to the ceiling, isa
full-length mirror. Velvet curtains line the wall
Opposite the door. You walk over to admire the
painting, then turn to face the mirror. A shock is in
114

store. Your eyes widen as you turn towards the
mirror and stare into it. It casts no reflection of you!
Add 1 FEAR point. You walk closer to the mirror but
still no reflection appears although you can see the
table and the wall behind you clearly. You walk
right up to it and feel its surface. Your hand passes
right through the glass! Pulling it back quickly, you
consider the situation. Will you leave this room
(turn to 131), step through the mirror (turn to 160) or
investigate the room further (turn to 324)?

114

Do you wish to leave the room (turn to 77) or
investigate the box on the mantelpiece (turn to 40)?

g

115-117

115
Your mouth waters as a roast duck is laid before
you. The Earl is having the same, and you both chat
as you eat. He wants to know how you came to be
driving along this road in the middle of the night,
and you tell him about the old man’s directions. You
ask him about himself and his family. Turn to 28.

116

Outside the room, the passageway runs onwards,
pasta door on the left. If you wish to continue along
the passageway, turn to 91. If you wish to explore
the area, turn to 166.

117
You step into the room and close the door behind
you. A squeaking noise from one corner makes you
118

jump, but when you walk over you are relieved to
find that the squeaking comes from three rats in a
cage. You keep your ears peeled for sounds of
visitors as you investigate the contents of the room.
Do you wish to look through the drawers (turn to
81), examine the liquids in the glass vials (turn to
341) or look through the cupboards (turn to 371)?

118

The door opens and you enter the kitchen, The
room is empty and immaculately tidy, with all the
knives, pots and pans hanging in neat rows along
the walls. A double sink is set under a window, next
to a large cooker and fridge. A great square table
stands in the centre of the room, There are two
doors; one leads outside and the other looks like a
pantry door. A large bunch of keys lies on top of the
cooker. Do you want:

To try the back door
leading outside? Turn to 327
To try the other door? Turn to 126

To grab the bunch of keys
on the cooker? Turn to 148

119-122

119
Will you start by looking through the ornaments on
a corner shelf (turn to 192) or will you examine the
fire and the mantelpiece (turn to 303)?

120
You grab the door-handle and twist it. The door is
locked! The voice laughs at your futile attempt to
escape. ‘No, my friend,’ it chuckles, ‘you cannot
escape from this room. The only escape you are
going to make now is from life itself!’ Add 1 FEAR
point and turn to 291.

121
You open the door quickly and step out on to the
landing. Luckily there is no one about. Turning left,
you follow the passage round until you reach a
wood-panelled wall where the passage turns left.
Turn to 175.

122
The passageway leads into a large chamber with
rocky walls. Mystical symbols are painted on the
walls and four goats’ heads, mounted on spikes,
mark out the central area. In the centre of this area is
an altar draped with a black cloth and a hooded
figure stands by the altar. This figure wears a gown
like the others, but his goat’s head is dyed purple.
You presume he must be their leader. You follow
the congregation, who surround the altar, and
stand at the back. A few minutes later, another
sound comes from the passage; this time you hear
PR

123

the screams of a young woman. Two of the masked
characters emerge from the passageway pulling a
pretty fair-haired girl, who is fighting furiously to
break free and screaming at the top of her voice. She
is dragged to the altar and tied down on it. The
congregation, led by their leader, chant for a short
time, then the leader motions for Brother Isaacson
to step forward. The two exchange masks and
Brother Isaacson steps up to the altar. Drawing a
sharp dagger from his gown, he raises it above the
woman. Excited mutterings run through the crowd.
But what will you do? Will you watch what will
happen (turn to 314), will you try to find a way out
(turn to 80) or will you try to rescue the young
woman (turn to 328)?

123
The room you enter looks well lived in. It is a
bedroom, and a large bed covered with a yellow
bedspread dominates the room. Clothes are strewn
about the floor and a tap is running in a wash-basin
in the corner. The clothes suggest it is a woman's
room, but no one is about. Will you call out to
announce yourself in case anyone is in the room
(turn to 386), search around to see what you can find
(turn to 337) or leave the room (turn to 2)?
124-125

124

The disembodied head speaks: ‘Prepare yourself for
death, miserable mortal! it gloats. ‘For the evil that
is in this place cannot be escaped. The House of
Drumer has drawn you here for one purpose. Be-
fore the night is out you will join me and my
companions in the nether world. Our fate will be
yours. You will forever haunt the place that has
caused your death!’ With these words, a mocking
laughter fills the room. The apparition turns back
through the wall and as it does so, the laughter
fades. But the fright will give you 2 FEAR points.
Add these to your total and leave the room. Turn to
382.

125
You enter a dimly lit bedroom and close the door
behind you. The room is empty apart from a
dressing-table and a large bed, but you can hear
music playing. Do you wish to search the room to
make sure it’s safe (turn to 239) or leave straight
away and head back to the landing (turn to 272)?

126-127

126

You reach for the door handle and open it wide. But
the sight that greets you makes you step back
aghast! Inside the pantry, standing motionless, is a
hideous figure in tattered clothes. Its face and hands
are ina state of semi-decay, and the odour of death
fills your nostrils. Your intrusion has woken it. Its
eyes open and a hissing noise comes from its throat.
A long tongue flashes out at you and the creature
steps forward. Add 2 FEAR points. You must fight
this GHOUL! But you may grab a knife from the
wall to use as a WEAPON (add 3 sxILt points).

GHOUL SKILL 8 STAMINA 7

As soon as it inflicts its second wound on you, turn
to 186. If you manage to defeat it, turn to 29.

127
‘Come on, then,’ he says cheerfully. ‘Let's go. I’m
ready.’ You are not sure whether to play along with
him or not. You ask him whether he’s sure he
knows where he’s going. ‘Oh, that I do, that I do,’
he laughs, walking up to you. ‘Buf sure as heaven I'm
not going down there without a fight!’ And with those
words he pulls a knife from his gown and attacks
you. Resolve this battle:

MAN IN WHITE SKILL 7 STAMINA9Q

If you wish to spare his life, you may turn to 359
when you have reduced his sraMINa to 2 points. If
you decide to finish him off, turn to 366.
128-130

128

You take a short run and charge at the door. It
shudders, and the noise reverberates through the
house. But the lock holds firm and you bounce off,
clutching a sore arm. Deduct 2 STAMINA points for
the pain. If you wish to try charging again, turn to
106. If you feel that the door is too strong and you
are unlikely to break it down, turn to 158.

129
You tiptoe quietly along the wall towards the other
passageway. Keeping your eyes on the ceremony to
make sure you are not noticed, you edge along until
you reach the passage and nip smartly along it. You
have escaped! At the end of the passage is a door
which is unlocked. You open it. Turn to 232.

130
Score the points indicated for any of the following
choices:

Kelnor 5 points
Kris 3 points

You score no points for any other choice. Now turn
to 297.
131-133

134
You leave the room cautiously and look around in
the hallway. There is no one in sight. There is a door
to your left, which you may try by turning to 211.
Otherwise you may turn right and follow the hall-
way round (turn to 58).

132
You walk down the stairs cautiously, looking in
every direction. There is no one about. In the hall-
way below you may choose to try either a door on
the left (turn to 353) or a door on the right (turn to
285) or you can walk up to the front door and open it
(turn to 222).

133
You step into the small room, which is bare except
for a table. Glancing round to make sure you are
safe, you walk up to the table. The box which rests
on it is a handsome wooden one with brass fasten-
ings. It is long and thin and looks as if it should hold
a pair of duelling-pistols. You undo the catch and
flip back the lid. Turn to 99.

134-135

134

You bend down and grasp the crate by its corners.
With a heave, you liftitinto the air. The sight at your
feet horrifies you and you must add 2 FEAR points
for the fright! Out of the upturned box drops the
limp body of a lifeless animal! The creature is
perhaps a well-shorn sheep or, more likely, a goat,
but it is difficult to identify as it has been decapi-
tated. You turn away, fighting down a feeling of
nausea and make for the door. Turn to 378.

135

You place the ring on your finger. As you do so, the
man starts to smile. ‘Well,’ he says, ‘that should
certainly make my joba good deal easier! Come over
here.’ You shiver as you realize that you have done
the wrong thing! Your fingers desperately try to
reach the ring to pull it off, but your mind will not
allow them to do so. The ring has brought you
directly under the control of your host's will. Turn
to 326.

136-138

136
Were you Lucky or Unlucky? If you were Lucky,
you managed to escape the splintering glass with-
out harm. If you were Unlucky, the glass cut your
wrist - lose 2 STAMINA points. Turn now to 317.

137
You walk up to a large window which looks as
though it may not be quite closed. But there are
heavy bars across it. Even if you were able to open
the window, you would never manage to squeeze
through the bars. The house is certainly well pro-
tected from intruders! Do you want to continue
round the house to see where the light is coming
from (turn to 345) or return to the front door and
either pull the rope (turn to 275) or use the knocker
(turn to 357)?

138
You recognize the Hunchback; he is the man who
brought you a drink upstairs, but you cannot be
sure he has recognized you. Do you want to stop
fighting and jog his memory (turn to 198) or would
you iather just kill him (turn to 164)?

pT 7 oe
nf, it ‘

aie

139-141

139

You step over to the bed and shake the old woman
gently. But as soon as you touch her withered skin,
you jump back in horror. She is stone-cold! Dead!
Add 2 FEAR points for the shock. As you stand by
the bed, shivering, a low moan comes from the
body. Its eyelids flick open and pure white eyes
stare up at the ceiling. She has no pupils! Do you
wish to wait to see what will happen next (turn to
246), or will you beat a hasty retreat and return to
the passageway (turn to 159)?

140
You grasp the handle and turn it. The door is
locked, and it looks too sturdy for you to break
down. Will you turn towards the door at the end of
the corridor (turn to 332) or go back the way you
came, carrying on past the room from which you
originally appeared (turn to 287)?

141
Score the points as indicated for any of the following
choices:

Shekou 5 points
Shaitan 3 points

You score no points for any other choices. Now turn
to 280.

142-143

142

The footsteps get louder and then they stop. You
cannot see anything! By the sound of the footsteps,
whoever was coming should be standing right in
front of you! You start to sweat, and must add 1
FEAR point. A pain grips your chest and starts to
grow. It is as if an invisible enemy is grasping your
heart and squeezing! But you still cannot see any-
thing. You fight the pain and resounding laughter
echoes in your ears. Something is standing there!
You struggle to escape. Fight this INVISIBLE
ENEMY. Although you will do him no harm, his
STAMINA score reflects the grip which he has on
you; if you reduce his staMINA to zero, you will
break free and can escape by running down the
hallway and turning right. Turn to 257 if you escape:

INVISIBLE ENEMY SKILL 10 STAMINA 4

143
You step over to the next cell. The sound of foot-
steps outside the door makes you turn quickly, Four
men dressed in white gowns and wearing goats’
heads appear at the door. ‘I told you!’ says one. ‘1
144-145

knew I could hear something. Looks like someone
wanis to free our prisoners. Come on, brothers!’
They rush towards you and you must resolve your
battle with their leader, who attacks you first:

LEADER SKILL 8 STAMINA Q

If you win, turn to 301.

144
‘Who's that?’ asks a voice from behind the door. The

door is unlocked, so you could walk in, but perhaps
you don’t want to be discovered just yet. Will you
open the door and take a chance with whoever is in
the room (turn to 71) or will you mumble something
like, ‘Sorry, wrong door,’ then try elsewhere (turn
to 278)?

145
How will you hold off these advancing creatures?
Will you pick up the brandy decanter (turn to 169) or
move slowly backwards towards the window (turn
to 64)?
146-148

146
The rock creaks and dust rises as the wall starts to
move. A crack appears in the brickwork and slowly
a secret door opens. But to your surprise, the door
opens on to one side of the hollow area you found.
Perhaps this was merely a decoy. Moments later the
door has opened wide enough to let you see inside.
You can see a small chamber with a table standing in
the centre. On the table is a box. If you wish to enter,
turn to 133. [f you would rather leave, you can climb
the stairs and go through the door at the top (turn to

293).

147
Where will you hide? Will you nip behind the
curtains (turn to 184) or quickly dive through the
mirror (turn to 3)?

148
You pick up the bunch of keys and start to flick
through them. Aagarrgghhh! You scream loudly and
drop the keys on the floor. For they are red hot, and
you have severely burnt your hand! You were using
149-150

your weapon-hand, and must lose 3 STAMINA and 2
SKILL points; but if you wish, you may Test your
Luck. A Lucky roll means that you weren’t using
your weapon-hand after all, and you only lose 1
STAMINA point. The scream and clatter of the falling
keys have made quite a noise. Turn to 254.

149
You take the stopper off the vial and sniff the liquid.
It is odourless. Raising the neck to your lips, you
take a sip and wait for something to happen — but
nothing does. You feel no strange effects at all. Turn
to 385.

150
As you are puzzling over the curtains, you reach out
to lean on the bed. But as you rest your weight on
the bedpost, the whole bed shifts aside and you
crash down on to the floor! This is all very strange —
and a little scary. Add 1 FEAR point and take 1
STAMINA point of damage. A rumbling from the
opposite side of the room breaks into your
thoughts. Sliding over the carpet towards you, and
accelerating rapidly, is one of the chairs. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 101. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 53.

151

151

A plaque beneath the painting reads ‘Lady Margaret
of Danvers: 1802-1834’. You stand and admire her
beauty and wonder why she died so young. As you
are staring at her face, you suddenly blink and look
again. Didn’t you just see her lips moving? Surely
not! A whisper reaches your ears but you cannot
make out its message. You lean forwards and put
your ear to the lips. A soft woman’s voice is speak-
ing to you: ‘Stranger, beware of this place, for it is
cursed! Many have succumbed to its power, myself
included. The evil Lord Kelnor will already be plot-
ting your death. Drink not his white wine. Or if you
can, begone. Escape while you may!’ You step back,
aghast! What sort of place is this? A creepy, run-
down old building filled with priceless antiques -
and paintings which talk? A cold prickle runs down
your neck and you must add 1 FEAR point. Will you
now run for the door (turn to 391) or wait to see what
happens (turn to 277)?
152-153

152
You try the door-handle. It will not turn; the door is
locked! A rush of anxiety comes over you. How will
you leave this room? Add 1 FEaR point. Again you
try the doorknob, but it will not budge. A noise
comes from behind you and you swing round. Did
that rustling sound come from the window? You
step over to investigate. Turn to 236.

453
‘Is that so?’ he asks. ‘Then why are you here?’ Will
you tell him that you are an outsider trying to escape
from the house (turn to 208) or will you pretend to
be a servant of the Earl of Drumer (turn to 268)?

_

y)

y
S-

154-155

154

You try the door of the Asmodeus room. It is locked,
but the key is in the lock. You turn it and step intoa
dimly lit room. A single candle is burning on a table
on the far side of the room, in front of a window.
Two packing crates have been turned upside down
to make seats on either side of the table and there is
no other furniture. Your ears prick up ata shuffling
sound behind you and you wheel round towards
the door. A loud cry comes from behind the door
and a man with thick white hair launches himself at
you! He is dressed in a long robe of a dirty grey
colour and before you can avoid him, he is on top of
you! Add 1 rear point. Resolve your battle with
him:

WHITE-HAIRED MAN SKILL7 STAMINA

When you have inflicted your first wound on him,
turn to 162.

155
You step into the room. It is a stylish bedchamber,
beautifully decorated. But one thing disturbs you
immediately. The windows are barred. Perhaps, being
so far from anywhere, they are designed to keep
intruders out, rather than to keep guests in! In the
centre of the room is a four-poster bed. You walk
over and test the mattress; it feels very comfortable.
By now you are in need of a rest. Will you climb into
bed (turn to 231) or walk over to the window to take
a look outside (turn to 27)?
156-158

156

You take a book off the shelf entitled: Mystical
Symbols and Their Part in Magic Rituals. You open the
cover and something drops out of the book on to the
floor. You bend down to pick it up. It is a pentacle,
fashioned in metal and hanging ona long chain. The
book itself is hollowed out to take the charm and a
piece of paper lies underneath it. The paper de-
scribes the pentacle as having powers over devil-
worshippers. Cast into the pentacle is the number
66. If you wish to take the pentacle, you may use it at
any appropriate time by turning to reference num-
ber 66. Add 2 Luck points for your find. Do younow
wish to look for other interesting books (turn to 286)
or would you prefer to leave the room (turn to 54)?

157
‘Hmmm,’ grunts the torturer, ‘I am still not con-
vinced. Nevertheless, you may be a friend of the
Master.’ You hold your breath as he pauses to make
up his mind. ‘All right, stranger, I will give you the
benefit of the doubt. Release the rack, Dirk.’ You are
set free and allowed to leave the room. Turn to 248.

158
You can hear slow footsteps approaching your
room. They stop outside the room and a key rattles
as it unlocks your door! You must quickly decide
whether to jump into bed and pretend to be asleep
(turn to 179) or to hide behind the door to surprise
whoever is about to come in (turn to 373).
159-161

159
Having explored most of the rooms upstairs, you
decide to risk searching the ground floor. You fol-
low the landing back round to the staircase and
creep downstairs. Turn to 132.

160
Behind the mirror is a small chamber, just large
enough for you to turn around in. There are two
doors in the chamber. Do you want to try the
left-hand door (turn to 92) or the right-hand door
(turn to 294)? Or would you rather step back
through the mirror (turn to 349?

161

You unstopper the vial and sniff the liquid. Jt smells
of lemon. You raise the neck to your lips and take a
sip. It fastes like lemon juice! You swallow it down
and wait anxiously for any effects. Nothing hap-
pens. But this is understandable, as the effects of
this liquid will not become apparent until you have
your next fight. For the liquid has healing powers
and will protect you from injury. The sip you took
was strong enough to heal the next two wounds you
take; do not deduct any stamina points for these
wounds. Now turn to 385.

162-165

162
Your attacker reels from the blow and you have a
moment to catch your breath and consider what to
do next. Will you:

Leap in and finish him off? Turn to 271
Hold up your hands to indicate
you mean no harm? Turn to 313
Run for the door opposite? Turn to 378
163

On the bedside table are a candle, which lights the
room, and a silver tray. On the silver tray is a
night-time snack: bread, jam and tea. You can, if
you wish, eat this snack (turn to 226). Otherwise
youcan leave it and either investigate the cupboards
(turn to 43) or leave the room (turn to 243).

164
You knock him to the ground and are able to get a
vicious kick in before the Hunchback can recover.
Deduct an extra 2 STAMINA points from him and
resolve the battle. If you win, turn to 116.

165

You search around the corner but can find nothing
unusual. You can hear some bats squeaking and the
overwhelming smell of their droppings forces you
to cut short your search. You must decide what you
want to do next. Will you search under the stairs
(turn to 61), look along the back wall (turn to 356) or
climb the stairs (turn to 293)?
166-167

166
Exploring the area, you find nothing particularly
unusual. You see a wooden door on the left of the
passageway, which you may try by turning to 221,
or you can walk a little further up and try another
door in the right-hand wall (turn to 209). If you
would prefer to ignore the doors and continue up
the passageway, turn to 91.

167
The sheets do, in fact, cover up furniture and boxes.
There are several easy chairs and a stylish chaise-
longue, and the boxes contain household bits and
pieces. One box contains ornamental crockery
wrapped upin newspaper. Thereis nothing unusual
about any of this. Turn to 380.

168-170

168
A soft voice is calling your name! You leap back
against a wall, while across the room a strange
shape is forming. A human figure is passing
through the very wall itself and entering the room.
At least, the figure is almost human, but its head is
missing. As it materializes before you, the voice
becomes clearer. It comes from a head that is car-
ried, not on the apparition’s shoulders, but in its
hand which hangs down at its side! The sight is
horrible and ghostly blood drips on to the carpet
from the severed head. You must add 2 FEAR points.
Will you stay to hear what the ghost has to say to
you (turn to 124), or run from the room (turn to 382)?

169
You grab the decanter and splash brandy quickly
over the two creatures, hoping to douse their
flames. But to your dismay, the brandy burns fierce-
ly! In fact it seems to nourish the Fire Sprites rather
than weaken them. Turn to g.

170
‘What business of yours is this house?’ she screams.
‘If you will not go of your own accord, then my
hounds will see you off. And if they cannot, I willdo
it myself!’ With these words, a wooden panel slides

171-173

open in the wall. Two huge GREAT DANES spring
out and attack. Resolve your battle with the dogs
(fight them one at a time):

First GREAT DANE SKILL 7 STAMINA 6
Second GREAT DANE SKILL 6 STAMINA 6

If you defeat the dogs, you may either leave the
room (turn to 159) or remain to search it (turn to 19).

174

Your struggles are wasted. You cannot free yourself
from the sheets and the pillow, which are wrapping
themselves around your body and face. Eventually,
you drop back into the bed. You have fallen victim
to the evil within the House of Drumer.

172

Caution should have overruled your appetite. Forin
the House of Drumer, cheese and white wine are
not recommended, for the simple reason that any-
one who eats cheese or drinks white wine will pay
the penalty. They are poisoned! This is the end of
your adventure.

173
You open your eyes. Your head is spinning and it is
some time before you are fully aware of the fact that
your hands and feet are bound. The room you are in
is empty, but you work outa plan. You will hop over
to the window, break the glass, and use it to cut
yourself free. Pulling yourself to your feet is awk-
ward, but you manage it and with a mixture of hops
174-175

and shuffles you arrive at the window. Outside the
wind is blowing the rain against the window panes.
Will you go ahead and smash the window with your
hands - something of a risky business ~ or will you
instead Test your Luck? If you want to Test your Luck,
turn to 136. If you do not wish to use your Luck
here, turn to 360.

174
The rock creaks and dust rises as the wall comes to
life. A crack appears in the brickwork and slowly a
secret door opens. But to your surprise, the door
opens to one side of the hollow area you found.
Perhaps this was merely a decoy. Moments later the
door has opened wide enough to let you see inside.
You can see a small chamber with a table standing in
the centre. On the table is a box. If you wish to enter,
turn to 48. If you would rather leave, you can climb
the stairs and go through the door at the top (turn to

293).

175
You follow the passageway round the corner to the
left. Two doors face each other across the passage
and you may either try the door on the left, to
the Belial room, or the door on the right, to the
Abaddon room. Straight ahead, the passageway

176-178

continues for a few metres before ending at an
unmarked door. Will you:

Try the door of the Belial
room? Turn to 312
Try the door of the Abaddon
room? Turn to 335
Try the unmarked door ahead? Turn to 103
Turn back and go downstairs? Turn to 132
176

‘Enough’ shouts the torturer. ‘Undo the imposter’s
ropes. Our friend is no more a friend of the Master
than is the Chief of Police!’ You are bound to admit
he is right, and you try to excuse yourself by saying
that you thought you must try that story, otherwise
you would have been killed. You tell him the real
story of your arrival. Turn to 4.

177

He frowns and considers your story. ‘It is impossi-
ble,’ he says, ‘that your story is true. But somehow
you are not like the others. Perhaps there is some
truth in what you say — and I would dearly like to
find a friend in this evil house. All right, stranger, I
believe you.’ You breathe a sigh of relief and you can
now ask him either how you can escape from the
house (turn to 75) or how you can defeat the Master
(turn to 105)?

178
You immediately turn to aid your comrade, but you
179-180

are too late. A thrust from the Devil-Worshipper’s
knife pierces his chest. You slam your fist into the
back of the man’s neck and he slumps to the floor.
But you have lost your ally and must leave without
him. Turn to 366.

179
You spring into the bed and wrap the sheets around
you, keeping one eye open just wide enough to see
what is going on. A shambling figure enters the
room. It looks like a man who is bent over double
and he is carrying a glass of liquid in his hand.
Placing the glass on your bedside table, he turns to
leave the room. Do you want to leap out of bed and
attack him (turn to 399) or will you wait until he has
gone and swallow the drink he has left for you (turn

to 45)?

180
The sight before you is the last you will ever see. The
wound you have just suffered and the butler’s
terrifying transformation are more than you can
bear. Franklins is no more. His human shell has
dissolved and he now stands before you as his true
self - a hideous demonic form surrounded by a
cloud of vapour. Steam hisses from its mouth and
blood — your own blood — drips, not from a knife,
but from a huge savage claw that is its right hand.
As you drop dying to the floor, this creature from
hell steps forwards to crush you with its goat-like
hooves. You may have defeated the Earl of Drumer,
butnot THE MASTER...
LU

181-182

181

The butler screams as your blow strikes him. The
man is obviously not the violent type, as the agony
in his voice is certainly not warranted by your
modest hit. His cry continues! Jt becomes deafening
and you are forced to step back and cover your ears
with your hands. But this is not the anguish of an
injuredman.. .

Steam begins to rise from the floor and it engulfs the
butler. His expression changes from a scream to a
vicious snarl and his eyes widen. A transformation
is taking place! Before your eyes, the form of Frank-
lins melts away and is replaced by a hideous demon-
ic beast! Steam hisses from its mouth. Its scaly skin
is dark. Its hands are now two vicious claws which
slash the air before you. Its feet have become hooves
- goat-like hooves. You must add 3 FEAR points as
you witness the creation of this demon from the
depths of hell. If you are still alive, turn to 109 if you
are using the Kris knife, or 52 if you are not.

182
The man looks away as you pull out your knife and
prepare to strike him with it. ‘Again, my thanks,’ he
says. ‘I will not get another chance to thank you.’
Your hand comes down and even you must close
your eyes as you strike him. But your knife never
reaches its target. A strong hand catches your wrist
inches from the man’s chest and squeezes hard. You
open your eyes and see the man smiling at you
devilishly. He has tricked you! He had no wish to
183-184

end his life. He simply wanted a weapon to use
against his jailers, a weapon which you have now
provided for him! He slams your wrist against the
bars, forcing you to drop the knife inside his cell.
Your anger turns to fear when he does not release
his grip, but instead bends down to pick up the
knife and holds it against your throat. ‘] am sorry,
my friend,’ he says, ‘but I cannot risk your telling
the others that I am now armed. My friends and I
must have our freedom at any cost. We shall have it
when our jailer returns with our next meal. | am
deeply sorry that the price of our freedom is so high
— for you.’ And with those words his blade bites
deep. Your adventure ends here.

183

The door opens slowly. A small, stocky man steps
into the room. He appears to be bent double and as
he peers into the room, you leap on him to attack.
Turn to 56 to resolve the battle, but since you leapt
on him siraight away, you may cause him 2
STAMINA points of damage immediately for your
surprise attack.

184
You hide behind tie curtains, clutching your box,
and wait for your visitors to leave. The door opens
and you can hear two voices talking. They are
discussing a ceremony which involves goats and
priests. You hear a click and a moment later, the
voices start shouting. They have discovered that the
185-186

box is missing! You hear angry footsteps stomping
about the room and your mouth dries as you wait
anxiously to see whether you will be discovered.
Suddenly the curtains are flung apart! Sheepishly
you stand there holding your box while two men,
wild-haired and furious, glare at you. Will you
apologize and offer them their box back (turn to 17)
or leap forward and attack them (turn to 215)?

185
There are no signs of traps in the room. If you wish
to double-check, you may Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 379. If you are Unlucky, turn to 206. If
you do not wish to Test your Luck, pull the rope and
turn to 318.

186
This Ghoul has the ability to paralyse you if itis able
to inflict four wounds during one fight. You are
half-way there and you must be very careful as you
continue the battle; two more wounds and you will
die. Now return to 126 and finish the fight.

187-188

187
As you creep along the wall, someone in the group
cries out. You have been spotted. All eyes turn
towards you and the unholy gathering advances to
surround you. You are trapped. Will you attempt to
fight your way out (turn to 365), or do you have
something else you can use? If so, use it.

188

The rock creaks and dust rises as the wall comes to
life. A crack appears in the brickwork and slowly a
secret door opens. But to your surprise, the door
opens on to one side of the hollow area you found.
Perhaps this was merely a decoy. Moments later the
door has opened wide enough to let you see inside.
You can see a small chamber witha table standing in
the centre. On the table is a box. If you wish to enter,
turn to 133. If you would rather leave, you can climb
the stairs and go through the door at the top (turn to

293).
189-190

189

The Vampire's eyes light up as you open the door.
Although you didn’t know it, this was just what he
was hoping for! As the light from the room falls on
to the faces of the Vampire’s two undead slaves,
their eyes open and they step out of the cupboard
towards you. The hideous, grey-green, decaying
faces of two ZOMBIES follow you as you step away
from them. ‘Attack! Attack!’ yells the Vampire.
They obey. Resolve your combat with them, one ata
time:

First ZOMBIE SKILL7 STAMINA 6
Second ZOMBIE SKILL 6 STAMINA 6

If you defeat the Zombies, turn to 20.

190
You knock loudly and watch the window. A few
seconds later, the two men reappear and light the
candles, The older man walks towards the door.
Turn to 207.

191

191

As you pull out your weapon, he steps backwards in
fear. You demand that he tells you the secrets of the
cellars. ‘All right, all right,’ he pleads, ‘I'll tell you.
But I will be in terrible trouble if the Master finds out
that | am giving away his secrets.’ You tell him that
he will be in even worse trouble if he doesn’t tell you
what you want to know. ‘The cellar rooms,’ he
starts, ‘are connected by secret doors. Some of these
are simply hidden, but a few — the most important
ones — need a password to open them. The Master
keeps on changing the password to keep his secrets
safe.’ Youask him what the current password is, but
he says he doesn’t know. You threaten him again,
and he starts to fight:

HUNCHBACK SKILL 7 STAMINA 7

When you have inflicted your first wound on him,
turn to 284.

192-194

192
There are several delicate items of pottery and a few
silver pieces on the shelf. One of the silver orna-
ments is a short dagger, and you may take this with
you if you want. It is rather too short to be a really
useful WEAPON, but nevertheless, you may add 2
SKILL points if you use it in a fight. There is also a
silver hip-flask. If you have not already done so, you
may take this flask and fill it with brandy, Now you
may either examine the fireplace (turn to 303) or
leave the room (turn to 218).

193
A short distance further on, you come to the top of
the main staircase which leads downwards. Im-
mediately opposite the staircase is an unmarked
door. Do you wish to go downstairs (turn to 132), try
the unmarked door (turn to 377), or will you con-
tinue round the landing (turn to 233)?

194
Score the points as indicated if you wrote down any
of the following words:

Azazel 3 points
Abaddon 5 points
Asmodeus 3 points
Apollyon 3 points

You score no points for any other choice. Now turn
to 130.
195-196

195
The room is a study. Old leather-bound books line
the walls and the only source of light comes froma
single candle burning on an antique desk. You walk
over to examine the desk, which is made from
beautiful wood and has brass-handied drawers. A
piece of paper rests on the blotter. As you look at it,
you are suddenly aware that something strange is
happening. A large brown letter F is forming in the
top left-hand corner! You gasp as the word ‘Find’
appears in a child’s handwriting across the top of
the paper. For this you must add 1 FEAR point.
Slowly the complete message forms: ‘Find Shekou.’
Who or what is Shekou? You pick up the paper and
move round the desk to see it more clearly in the
light. But as quickly as it appeared, the message
disappears. Do you wish to look over the collection
of books (turn to 62) or will you leave this room (turn

to 54)?

196
A rack of lamb is brought in ona silver platter. The
smell is delicious! You both start to eat and talk. The
Earl asks you about your job and your reason for
being in such an out-of-the-way place in the middle
of the night. In turn, he tells you about himself and
his family. Turn to 28.

197-199

197
You walk up to the mantelpiece and pick up the box.
A catch is holding it shut. But before you open the
box, a rustling from the window attracts your atten-
tion. Something is happening! You place the box back
on the mantelpiece and walk over to the curtains.
Turn to 236.

198

‘The dull-witted Hunchback seems to vaguely re-
member your face. You start to chat to him and find
that he is quite flattered that someone wants to talk to
him. He tells you his name is Shekou and he lives in
the cellars beneath the house. Do you wish to ask
him about the secrets of his cellars (turn to 18) or, if
you have any brandy with you, you may pull it out
and offer him a drink (turn to 93).

199
You sit on your haunches and teach for the photo-
graph. As you pick it up, you feel a heavy thud on
the top of your head! You slump to the floor, dazed,
and the plant-pot, which came crashing down on
your head, smashes on the floor. You must lose 3
STAMINA paints for this accident. Now turn to 290.

200-201

200

You open the door and peer round. The room is a
large, elegantly decorated bedroom, with a four-
poster bed in one corner. There is a three-piece suite
in the centre of the room, facing a fireplace. A fire is
smouldering, but the room appears to be empty. On
the far side of the room are two more doors. Do you
wish to go in (turn to 69) or quickly close the door
and leave the room (turn to 389)?

201
You are bundled inside the small cage and hoisted
into the air. What a dreadful place to spend your
days. The cage is big enough for you to sit inside,
with your knees close up to your chest. But you are
unable to stretch at all. When cramp sets in, your
fate will be long, slow and painful, much to the
delight of the torturer and his assistants . . .
202-207

202

You tell the man you have no wish to team up with
him. The door is unlocked and he is free to go
whenever he pleases. Now where will you go? Turn
to 278.

203
There is only one hiding-place in the room, but you
will have to be lucky to find it. Test your Luck. If you
are Lucky, turn to 376. If you are Unlucky, you will
have to wait to see who — or what — your visitor is.
But you may decide to wait behind the door, instead
of in plain view (turn to 369).

204

Do you wish to try the other door (turn to 92) or
would you prefer to step back through the mirror
(turn to 349)?

205
The door is firmly locked. Try the door opposite by
turning to 118.

206
You can find no signs of any traps. Ring for the
butler by turning to 318.

207
‘What's this?’ you hear the older man ask. ‘Someone
knocking at the door at this time of night? Could it
be one of the brethren? I thought everyone was
here.’ Then the two men start whispering to each
208

other in voices too low for you to hear. You wait
patiently outside in the rain until eventually, the
door opens and a voice asks, ‘Whois it?’ Will you tell
them about your predicament and ask to use the
phone (turn to 95) or will you claim to be one of the
brethren that you heard them talking about (turn to
267)?

208

‘I don’t believe it!’ he exclaims. ‘Have my prayers
been answered? Can I join you? Please, you must
allow me to come with you. I can be of great help to
you.’ You tell him he is certainly welcome to help in
your escape, and ask him how he came to be in this
hidden area. ‘Do you know about the sacrifices?’ he
asks. ‘Well, lam to be saved for the next ceremony. I
was part of the Master’s coven but my conscience
will no longer allow me to live with the evil it entails.
But the coven cannot allow defectors. I was sent-
enced to death - death by sacrifice! Together we
must destroy Kelnor, the Master. I know how it can
be done! Kelnor can only be killed with the Kris
dagger which is hidden somewhere in the house.
And he must be summoned in a red room. Let us
agree to rid the world of this human monster and his
evil sect!’ You would be foolish to refuse the help
and agree. You may add 1 Lucx point for this
information. A noise outside cuts the conversation
short — someone is coming! Turn to 87.

209-210

209

This room seems to be a dungeon of some sort, for
along one wall are four cells with heavy iron bars
locking their occupants in. No one seems to be on
your side of the bars, so you walk in to have a look. A
twig cracks as you step forward and immediately
three bodies spring to life in three of the cells. They
are a ragged lot — clothes in tatters, hair dishevelled
and grubby. They all reach forward through the
bars and plead with you to release them. Each one
has been captured by the Earl of Drumer’s servants
and imprisoned to await some horrendous fate.
Nearest to you is a pretty young girl; her face and
fair hair are dirty and she isin tears. She desperately
wants to be released. In the second cell is a tall man
with strong features. He has accepted that he is
about to die and bravely asks you to kill him now, to
deprive the evil Earl of his pleasure. In the third cell
is a balding man ina grey gown who says nothing.
Do you wish to try to help these prisoners? You may
talk to one of them if you wish. Would you like to
talk to the young girl (turn to 322), the dark man
(turn to 266) or the balding man (turn to 363). If you
would rather not talk to any of them, you may leave
the room and walk away (turn to 91).

210
As you leave the room, the Hunchback limps along,
muttering to himself, ‘I wish the Master's friends
would not just drop in on me like that,’ he mumbles,
‘giving me sucha frightand all. Especially on a night
like tonight...’ He leads you along until he
211-214

teaches a door on the left. ‘Keep on going until you
reach a staircase, then go up into the house. I’ve got
work to do down here.’ Do you recognize this
Hunchback? Have you met him before? If so, you
may turn to 230. If not, you may either follow his
directions (turn to 393) or wait until he has gone and
explore the cellar (turn to 166).

211
The door is locked and you will not be able to open
it. You turn round and follow the hallway (turn to

58).

212
Your key does not fit in the lock. The door remains
firmly closed. Turn to 47.

213
The table is quite ordinary. You feel around under-
neath it, but can find nothing exceptional there. The
packing crate on the left feels light. You tip it up to
havea look underneath and find nothing inside. But
the crate on the rightis heavy. You kick it with your
foot arid it does not move. Do you want to lift it to
see what is hidden inside (turn to 134) or leave it
alone and walk back out into the hallway (turn to

378)?

214

You tell him who you are and that you wish to
escape from the house too, preferably destroying
the Earl of Drumer’s cult of terror on the way. The
215

man begins to get quite excited. ‘My name is Raffer-
ty,’ he says. ‘I have seen enough of the evil in this
place and wish to wash it out of my life for ever.
Perhaps we can escape together. There is a secret
trap-door in the ceiling in this corner of the room. If
you will be so kind as to bend over, I will climb on
your back; and when I'm through I can haul you
up.’ Will you help him with his plan to escape (turn
to 245) or do you suspect this character and decide
you would rather continue alone (turn to 202)?

235 i

The two men are as startled as you are by this
encounter, but you are ready to attack. You drop the
leather box and leap forward. Resolve this battle
(fight the men one ata time):

First MAN SKILL 7 STAMINA 8
Second MAN SKILL 8 STAMINA 9

If you wish to Escape at any time during the battle
after the first four Attack Rounds, you may only do
so by throwing yourself through the mirror while
they are not looking {turn to 160). If you defeat the
two men, turn to 273.

216-217

216
The narrow stairway splits and offers you two ways
down. Will you choose the left-hand stairs (turn to
398) or the right-hand stairs (turn to 89)?

217
The door opens at the top of a staircase which leads
down into the cellars underneath the house. You
walk downstairs slowly to allow your eyes to be-
come accustomed to the darkness. At the foot of the
stairs, a twittering noise catches your attention.
Suddenly you feel something land on your head
and dig sharp claws into your scalp! You swat it
away and your hand touches a small, leathery body.
BATS! A number of them are flapping around your
head, darting and scratching with their claws. You
must add 1 FEAR point for the shock, and you may
now:

Run back upstairs Turn to 370
Hide under the stairs Turn to 320
Fight the bats Turn to 343
218-219

218
Did you enter this drawing-room from the hallway
or the study? If you entered from the hallway, you
take the door which leads into the study — turn to
195. If you entered from the study, you go through
the other door into the hallway. Turn to 251.

219
As the others set off along the passageway, you
remain at the back of the crowd. As the last few are
leaving the room, another man bursts in through
the door, puffing and panting. ‘Good, I’m not too
late,’ he gasps. ‘For a minute I thought I’d miss it!
Now let’s see. Where is my gown and mask?’ Your
blood chills as the man starts looking in the area
219

where you took your costume. ‘Gone!’ he says.
‘Wait, Brothers, someone has taken my dress. Ah,
there is my mask. Sorry, Brother, you must have
taken mine by mistake. | can recognize it quite
clearly by the broken tooth. Here, let me have it.’
The man snatches the mask from your head and all
attention is focused on you. ‘Here, who are you?’
someone asks. Your hesitant reply gives the game
away. ‘Back, Brothers!’ shouts a voice. ‘We seem to
have an intruder in our midst.’ A dozen men come
back into the room and surround you. You have no
choice but to go with them to the celk where they
lock you in. This is a cell from which there is no
escape; your adventure is over.

220-221

220
The poor, miserable creature pleads for mercy. He is
such a pitiful sight that you step back as he grovels
on the floor. He will do you no harm and thanks you
continually for sparing his life. Do you now wish to
leave the room, locking him in behind you (turn to
350) or will you try to force him to answer your
questions (turn to 234)?

221
You can hear gruff noises coming from within the
room. Whoever, or whatever, is in there certainly
doesn’t sound too friendly. Will you try the door
anyway (turn to 344) or will you open the door in the
wail opposite (turn to 209) or continue along the
passageway (turn to 91)?

222-224

222

You grip the handle, turn it and slowly pull the door
open. The noise of the storm raging outside be-
comes louder. You start to walk through the door-
way, but stop and gasp, your eyes frozen wide
open! Standing in the doorway before you is a
hooded figure! But its face is not human. Instead,
the head is that of a goat and its mouth is red with
blood, which is dripping on to the ground. Its dead
eyes stare vacantly upwards. The sight is terrifying
and you must add 3 FEAR points. You slam the door
in its face and turn around. Where will you run —
through a door on the right (turn to 353), through a
door on the left (turn to 285) or back down the
hallway (turn to 108)?

223

The rock creaks and dust rises as the wall starts to
move. A crack appears down the wall in the brick-
work and slowly a secret door opens. But to your
surprise, the door opens on to one side of the hollow
area you found. Perhaps this was merely a decoy.
Moments later, the door has opened wide enough
to let you see inside. You can see a small chamber
with a table standing in the centre. On the table is a
box. If you wish to enter, turn to 133. If you would
rather leave, you can climb the stairs and go through
the door at the top (turn to 293).

224
Franklins brings them to you and you finish off your
meal. ‘Well, my friend,’ says the Earl, ‘you must
225-227

now be quite tired; it is well past midnight. Frank-
lins will show you to your room.’ You thank him
and follow the butler out of the dining-room. ‘This
way, if you please,’ he says as he leads you up a
magnificent wide staircase with carved wooden
banisters. A landing at the top leads to various
different rooms, each with a name-plaque on the
door. He takes you to one which reads ‘Erasmus
Room’ and opens the door, wishing you a good
night's sleep. Turn to 5.

225
You press the button. It clicks and you can hear a
rumbling from behind the bookcase. Slowly, the
bookcase slides aside to reveal a passageway behind
it. If you wish to go down the passage, turn to 241. If
you would rather not risk exploring the passage,
leave the study by turning to 54.

226
You examine the tray carefully, but there seems to
be nothing suspicious about it. The snack is just
what you needed! You may add 4 staMINA points
and 1 Luck point for this find. When you are ready,
you may either leave the room (turn to 243) or
investigate the cupboards (turn to 43).

227

What food did you take? Bread and cakes will
restore 2 STAMINA points each; dried meats, dried
fish and cheese will restore 1 STAMINA point each;
fruit and wine will not restore any. Wine will lose
228-231

you 1 SKILL point, but if you drank wine you may
deduct 2 FEAR points (Dutch courage!). If you ate
cheese or drank white wine, turn to 172. If you ate
neither of these, but ate dried fish or drank red
wine, turn to 84. If you ate none of these, turn to 36.

228
How will you attack the man? Will you use a
weapon (turn to 32) or do you have anything else
you can use (turn to 46)?

229
You follow the landing round until you reach
another door on the right-hand side. A name-plate
identifies it as the Erasmus room. If you wish to
enter this room, turn to 140. Ahead of you, at the
end of the passageway, is another door. If you wish
to go there, turn to 332.

230
You recognize the Hunchback as the man who
brought you a drink upstairs. Will you jog his
memory (turn to 198) or would you rather have your
revenge and attack him (turn to 302)?

231
You climb into bed and blow out the candle.
Anxious thoughts race through your mind. The old
man who gave you wrong directions, your accident,
the sinister atmosphere in the house . . . Soon your
weariness gets the better of you and you drift off to
sleep. In a disturbed slumber you begin to dream.
232

You are being chased by a swirling cloud of gas. You
are trying to run from it but the faster you run, the
slower you go. The cloud is catching you. As you
desperately try to avoid it, it engulfs you. You begin
to cough and choke. It is stifling your breath! You
wake with a start. Your head is buried in the pillow
and the bedclothes are holding you down! They feel
heavy and you must strain to fight for air. Add 2
FEAR points as you realize that something super-
natural is happening here. To determine whether or
not you escape from the pillow, roll two dice. If the
total is Jess than or equal to your SKILL score, turn to
348. If itis higher than your SKILL score turn to 171.

232

The door opens into a small room which is pitch-
black. There seems to be no exit from the room, but
you feel around the walls. Eventually your hand
touches a small button in one corner and you press
this. A panel in front of you slides aside and lets you
out into a passageway. There are two doors oppo-
site each other, one on the left and one on the right.
There is no other way through. Will you try the door
on the left (turn to 342) or the door on the right (turn
to1q4)? *

233-235

233
A few steps past the unmarked door is another
unmarked door. If you wish to try this one, turn to
98. If you wish to ignore it and go on, turn to 374.

234
He is terrified of you and agrees to answer your
questions in exchange for his miserable life. Do you
wish to ask him:

How you can escape from

the house? Turn to 258
About the people in the

house? Turn to 308
What is happening in the

house? Turn to 325

235
If you wrote down any of the following words, you
can score the points indicated:

Diabolus 3 points
Drumer 5 points

Any other choice is not worth any points. Turn to
194.
236-237

236

From behind the curtain, a heavy blow hits you in
the chest and knocks you backwards on to the floor.
Lose 2 STAMINA points and add 2 FEAR points. You
pick yourself up quickly and the curtain slides to
one side. A human figure steps out. Its skin is a
dirty-green colour. Its wide eyes stare at you, yet
through you. Its jaw gapes open to reveal a mouth
half full of rotten teeth. It wears ragged clothes. And
itis advancing towards you! Resolve your fight with
this ZOMBIE:

ZOMBIE SKILL 7 STAMINA 6
If you defeat the Zombie, turn to 114.
237

You stand back from the secret door and say your
password. Which word will you choose?

Pravemi Turn to 223
Goathead Turn to 188
Murder Turn to 174

Kris Turn to 146

238-240

238
There is no telephone in the hall and you feel uneasy
about venturing into any of the rooms. While you
are wondering what to do, you hear a noise coming
from behind one of the doors. You rush back to the
chair and sit down. Turn to 277.

239
There are no hiding-places in the room. The bed is
solid and reaches down to the floor. You appear
to be safe. But suddenly your ears prick up as
you hear a shuffling sound outside. Footsteps
are approaching along the passageway. With ears
peeled, you listen. The shuffling stops outside your
door! Will you wait to see who is there (turn to 369)
or make other plans (turn to 281)?

240
You manage to scramble to the door and slam it shut
before the dogs can spring at you. Now out in the
passageway, you must look for another way to leave
this area. Turn to 60.

241-242

241
The passageway you are in has rough stone walls
and must run along the outside of the house. Rocky
stairs lead downwards and you follow them until
you reach the bottom. The air is cooler down here
and you realize you must be in the cellars beneath
the house. A half-hidden wooden door is standing
ajar; you poke your head round it and peer into the
room. Across the room is another door, but what
you see in front of you fills you with alarm. Turn to
209.

242
The boxes contain jewellery. Most of it is quite
gaudy, but one ring in particular looks as though it
might be valuable. It is a gold band with rubies inset
around it. You bend over and hold it up to a candle
to try to read an inscription running around the
inside rim. It says: ‘To dearest Margaret from
George: 1834’. You may slip this into your pocket if
you wish. Then turn to 290.

243-245

243
A few steps further back down the passageway, two
doors face each other. On the right is the Belial
Room, which you may enter by turning to 312. On
the left is the Abaddon Room and you may try this
door by turning to 335. Otherwise you can continue
round the passageway and walk downstairs (turn to

132).

244

The Earl is outraged! How could you allow him to go
to all the trouble of preparing a meal and then refuse
to eat it? Will you apologize and take the duck (turn
to 115) or the lamb (turn to 196), or will you apolo-
gize for the inconvenience, but still refuse to eat
{turn to 96)?

245
You bend down in the corner of the room to allow
him to stand on your shoulders. Suddenly a
thought occurs to you. Why has Rafferty not

246-248

escaped already by standing on the table? You turn
round to ask him — just in time to see his fist slam
into your chin! You slump to the floor and Rafferty
smiles. Capturing you will gain him the Master's
favour once more. He has saved his own miserable
hide, but you are about to be taken prisoner. You
will spend the rest of your days beneath the House
of Drumer until the Master tires of you.

246

You hear words coming from the old woman, yet
her lips do not move. ‘Stranger, how dare you
invade the private bedchamber of the woman of the
house?’ she asks. You stammer an apologetic reply.
She orders you: ‘Begone, intruder. Leave an old
woman to die in peace!’ Will you leave her as she
wishes (turn to 159) or ask her for information abcut
the house (turn to 170)?

247
Outside the study there are two doors in the hall-
way opposite each other. If you wish to try the door
on the left, turn to 217. If you would rather try the
door on the right, turn to 307. Otherwise you can
continue along the hallway, following it round (turn
to 316).

248
You leave the torture room and can now continue
along the passageway. Turn to 393.
249-250

249

Slowly and quietly you walk up to the curtain. There
is no movement from it. You grab the left-hand
curtain and fling it open! There is a full-length
window behind, which is barred on the outside. But
nothing is hiding there. You take hold of the other
curtain. But before you can move it, the bulges you
noticed come to life! Turn to 236.

250

You step up to a portrait of ‘The Duchess of Brews-
ter: 1777-1845’. She looks a stern old woman, with
an icy stare; a lady of the nobility, no mistake. Butas
you stare, her image seems to shimmer. You blink,
and try to look away. But you cannot! Within the
shimmering face, you can see small movements and
your jaw drops as the portrait’s eyes turn towards
you. Add 1 FEAR point for the fright. The woman’s
lips start to move and you hear a voice saying,
‘Stranger, you have innocently stumbled into a
cursed place. Would that I could bid you escape. But
alas you cannot. There is evil and suffering within
these wails and you may only escape by destroying
it. But that is almost impossible. J can tell you this,
though: you have an ally close by who may be able
to help. This man is dressed in a grey robe. If you
can find him, you may together free this house from
the evil that controls it.’ With these words, the
shimmering stops. You rub your eyes and look
again. The painting is still. Turn to 277.
251-253

251

Across the hallway is another door. If you wish to
try this door, turn to 97. Otherwise you can turn
right and follow the hallway (turn to 42).

252

The corridor ends at a stout wooden door with
Shaitan written on the name-plate. To your right is
the Mammon room. And to your left is another
door, but this one has no name. Do you wish to try
any of these doors?

The Shaitan Room Turn to 200
The Mammon Room Turn to 123
The nameless door Turn to 15
Turn back and follow the

landing Turn to 272

253

For fifteen minutes you try every loose brick in the
hall. But you find nothing which will open the secret
door. Perhaps that particular door can only be
opened from the other wall, You must now choose
your next plan. Will you go upstairs through the
door at the top (turn to 293) or look in the corner
where the bats came from (turn to 165)?
254-256

254
Your fears are confirmed when the door opens. The
noise has attracted the attention of some mysterious
friends of the Earl of Drumer. Four men enter the
room, all dressed in white gowns and wearing
goat’s heads to conceal their faces. They are armed
with knives and lengths of wood. It would be fool-
ish to resist them. Grabbing your wrists, they take
you downstairs into the cellars. There you enter a
room in which there are four prison cells. Three are
already occupied, but the fourth is empty. You will
be detained here at the Earl's pleasure. Your adven-
ture has ended.

255
You step out of the storeroom into a hallway. To
your left, the hallway ends at a door which leads in-
to the Shaitan room. If you wish to try the door, turn
to 200. Almost opposite is the Mammon room which
you may enter by turning to 123. If you are not
interested in either of these, go back to the landing
through the storeroom (turn to 233).

256
You grab the vial boldly, remove the stopper and
take a sip of the liquid inside. You wash it round
your mouth to test the taste. It is thick and syrupy;
not at all unpleasant. You swallow hard and wait
with baited breath for it to take effect. For several
moments nothing happens. Perhaps it will have no
effect. You move over towards the cupboards and
that is when you first notice a difference. Each step
257

you take is an effort! Your feet feel like lead weights
and your movements are sluggish. This liquid is a
poison which saps the strength of those who take it.
You must reduce your sKILL by 1 point and your
STAMINA by 3. Continue by turning to 385.

257

You consider your best plan as you walk down the
passageway. You turn right along the landing and
two doors are on your left. The first has Azazel
written on its name-plate and the second, Mephis-
to. Do you want to try either of these rooms? If so
you may enter the Azazel room by turning to 358 or
the Mephisto room by turning to 298. Otherwise
you may pass both these rooms and walk along to
where the landing turns right by turning to 287.

258
‘Escape?’ he whimpers. ‘You can only escape if the
Master will allow it. But you have been kind to me.
Yes, very kind. Shekou will help you leave. But the
Master must not know. Please promise me that you
will not tell the Master?’ You agree and he leads you
out of the room on to a landing. He points to a
staircase across the landing. ‘If you go down there,
you will end up by the front door,’ he says. ‘The
Master may have locked it, but | don’t think so. Go.
Quickly!’ You walk cautiously round the landing
towards the staircase. Shekou cannot walk as quickly
as you and you leave him behind. You turn right
and then right again. You are now across the land-
ing from the Erasmus room and you look for the
Hunchback. He has disappeared! You have passed
a couple of rooms, but where has he gone? Is he
letting the Master know of your whereabouts? Now
259-261

you must decide what to do. Will you go downstairs
(turn to 132) or would you rather try a room near by
on the first floor (turn to 282)?

259
The door is locked. You may either try the door
across the hallway (turn to 118) or go back along the
hallway (turn to 49).

260
The door is locked. You will not be able to goin. You
turn and set off down the hallway. Will you enter a
room on the right (turn to 113) or will you carry on
along the hallway (turn to 316)?

261
You walk over to a corner where you can watch
everything and catch your breath. You may add 4
STAMINA points for the rest. Now turn to 380.
262-263

262

You climb into the bed and lie still. You can hear
nothing, but then there is a single faint click as you
shift your weight. You must have released a small
catch, because you are suddenly flung upwards.
Like a gigantic jaw, the bed has snapped up into the
wall, swallowing you! It is pitch-black and the bed-
clothes are thrown off you as you fly downwards for
several metres before landing on something hard.
Take 2 STAMINA points of damage and turn to 241.

263
You step into a corner of the room and wait. The
door opens slowly and a small, stocky man enters.
His face is dumpy and dirty and he appears to be
bent double. He squints into the room. Will you step
forward and greet the man (turn to 367) or leep
across the room and attack (turn to 56)?

264-265

264

You nurse your bruises and look around. All is
pitch-black apart from a point of light coming from
the end of a long tunnel. You walk down the tunnel
cautiously and your pace slows even further when
you hear the sound of voices in the distance. Hu-
man voices are chanting in a long, monotonous
drone. Soon you are able to see what is happening.
A group of people, perhaps forty of them, are
gathered around a large fire. On the far side of the
fire is an altar, and stretched out on the altar is a
young woman. She is bound hand and foot. You
cannot make out the faces of the onlookers, as they
are all wearing goat-head masks. In the centre,
standing over the altar, is a tall man dressed in
robes, whose goat mask has been dyed purple. He
holds in his hands a sharp dagger and is preparing
to sacrifice his young victim. Do you wish to watch
the proceedings (turn to 314), try to find a way out
(turn to 80) or try to rescue the young woman (turn
to 328)?

265

‘My humble apologies,’ stammers the torturer. ‘I
did not realize you were one of my Master's
brethren. Can I make amends? Can [help direct you
onwards?’ If you refuse his help, you may just leave
the room (turn to 248). If you want to ask the
torturer how to get back upstairs, he will give you
directions. If you follow them, you will end up back
on the ground floor (turn to 293).
266-267

266
The dark man courageously bares his chest and asks
you to plunge a knife into his heart to end his
suffering. If you have a knife, you can do as he
wishes (turn to 482) or you can refuse and talk to one
of the other prisoners (turn to 143).

267

The door opens wide and you are invited in. ‘We
thought everyone was here already,’ says the older
man. ‘That's cutting it a bit fine. The others are . . .’
He pauses when he sees your face and the two men
look at each other. ‘Er, ahem . . . what delayed
you?’ You are feeling a little uneasy about the situa-
tion and mumble some excuse about your car break-
ing down. ‘Your car,’ says the man slowly. ‘What a
shame — | hope it’s not too bad.’ From their reac-
tions, you get the distinct impression that you have
said the wrong thing. Then it dawns on you that
there are no other cars around the house although,
according to these two, everyone has arrived. You
try desperately to think of what to say next and you
do not notice that the younger man has crept round
behind you. You feel a heavy blow on the back of
your head, which knocks you unconscious. Lose 4
STAMINA points and turn to 173.

268-270

268
“One of the Earl's servants?’ he asks. ‘I don’t believe
you. You don’t look like one of his henchmen. Who
are you?’ Will you admit that you are an imposter
(turn to 208) or will you become angry and switch
your story, pushing him out towards the door (turn
to 127)?

269

The wine is dry and light; obviously a very expen-
sive vintage. But there is a puzzling aftertaste which
you cannot place. Perhaps there is a little sediment
in the decanter. No, the taste is more like. . . aspirin!
Too late, you realize that your wine has been drug-
ged. You start to raise yourself from the table, but
the effects are already taking hold. You stumble, fall
back and crash to the floor. Consciousness fades.
Turn to 173.

270

You hurl the garlic at the Vampire and dash for the
door. He shrieks, trying to brush off the garlic, as
you fling it open. It opens into a cupboard — but a
rather unusual one. The back wall has slid aside,
revealing a secret passageway. The Vampire is ris-
ing to his feet again, so you decide to risk what lies
ahead and step through into the passageway, slam-
ming both doors behind you. Turn to 102.
271-273

271
Continue your battle with him. If you win, you may
either leave the room (turn to 378) or check the table
and the boxes (turn to 213).

272
You follow the landing round, past a wooden door
which bears the name Tuttivillus. You may try this
door by turning to 155. Straight ahead, the landing
ends ata panelled wall and the passageway turns to
the left. To follow the passage round, turn to 175.

273
You collect your thoughts. The box! What is in the
box that made it worth such a great deal of trouble?
You pick it up and open it. Inside is a Golden Key.
Do you now wish to leave the room (turn to 131) or
do you want to step through the mirror to see what
lies behind (turn to 160)?

274-276

274

You remove the stopper from the neck of the vial
and sniff the contents. A strong, acrid odour hits
your nostrils and you sneeze loudly and shake your
head to drive away the smell. Quickly, you put the
stopper back on the vial and too late, you see the
sign etched into the glass. A skull and crossbones! You
have sniffed a deadly poison which is now working
its way through your system. You feel dizzy and the
room starts to spin. Coughing violently, you slump
to the floor. Consciousness fades as your last mo-
ments pass. But perhaps this is a merciful escape
from the terrors of the House of Hell.

275
You grasp the rope and pull. From the depths of the
house you hear a tinkling noise and the light coming
from the side window goes out. Turn to 357.

276
You feel around the wall, rapping the brick with
your knuckles. Your heart leaps as you find a hollow
area! You trace it with your fingers and the area is
roughly the shape of a small door. Do you wish to
look for a catch which will open the door (turn to
253) or will you try a password (turn to 237)?
277-278

277
Footsteps! Someone is coming! The tall man you met
earlier walks in, opening the door for another tall
man dressed in a purple smoking-jacket. ‘May I
present Lord Kelnor, the Earl of Drumer,’ the butler
announces. The Earl holds out his hand and you
shake it. His grip is strong and his eyes pierce yours.
His lips widen to a soft smile. You begin to tell him
of your predicament, but he holds up his hand.
‘Please; I can see that you have been caught in this
filthy storm. Let us sit by the fire and we will see
whether we can help. Franklins, tell the cook to
prepare some food for our visitor.’ You protest that
you do not wish to be any trouble, but your host
ignores you and leads you into a drawing-room
where a fire is burning. You take off your coat and
sit down. The heat of the fire makes you feel com-
fortable once more. Franklins returns with two
glasses of brandy. Will you relax, drink the brandy
and ask if you can use the telephone (turn to 394) or
will you wait to see what he asks you (turn to 111)?

278
Where will you try now? The door opposite (turn to
342) or will you look for another way out of this
corridor (turn to 60)?

279-281

279
You turn to go the other way, but stop at the sound
of definite footsteps coming along the corridor to-
wards you. You must decide quickly what to do.
Will you turn back and follow the Ghost into the
room at the end of the corridor (turn to 73) or take a
chance and wait to see who is coming (turn to 142)?

280
How many points did you score in total? If you
scored 12 points or more, turn to 265. If you scored
8-11 points, turn to 157. If you scored less than 8
points, turn to 176.

281
You can either step behind the door, ready to
pounce on anything that comes through (turn to
369), or you may try to hide from your visitor (turn
to 203).

282-284

282
You look over the landing and then turn round to
consider your choices. There are two doors in front
of you, both unmarked. If you wish to go through
the door on the left, turn to 377. If you wish to go
through the door on the right, turn to 98. If you
would rather continue along the landing, turn to

374-

283
“Before I will answer your question,’ she says, ‘you
must tell me something — what is my name?’ Do you
know what her name is? If so, you will have noted
down a reference number to turn to, should you be
asked this question. Turn to this reference. If you do
not know her name, she will not answer your
question no matter what you threaten to do to her
plants; you will have to leave the room by turning to

159.

284

The Hunchback cringes as you strike him. ‘Enough!
Mercy! Please! I'll tell you the password! It is
Pravemi. A member of the Earl's family, or some-
thing. Now leave me alone.’ You step back from the
miserable creature. Shekou scampers off through
the door in the left-hand wall and leaves you alone.
Will you walk on along the Passage (turn to 393) or
would you prefer to explore the area around you
(turn to 166)?
285-287

285
The door is locked. You may either try the door
opposite (turn to 353) or creep back along the hall-
way (turn to 108).

286

Another section of books is concerned with medi-
eval portraits. You pull a large book down from the
shelf. A book next to it falls over and reveals a small
button set in the back of the bookcase. Do you wish
to press this button? If so, turn to 225. If not, you
may look at the book you have chosen by turning to
311.

287

You walk up to the two doors in the corner of the
balcony. The one on your left is named Balthus and
the one in front of you has no name. If you wish to
enter the Balthus room, turn to 299. If you would
rather go through the other door, turn to 86. If you
choose to ignore these doors and continue round
the landing, turn to 193.

288-290

288
The Earl of Drumer drops to the floor, dead. You
breathe a heavy sigh of relief, for you have defeated
the evil Master of the House of Drumer. But what of
Franklins? Must you also destroy the butler? Turn to
104.

289

You walk from the porch round the side of the
house. A light is indeed on, and it’s shining through
a window at the back of the building. Do you wish to
go round to see if you can see anything at this
window (turn to 345) or will you walk up to one of
the other windows along the side wall to see
whether you can enter the house without anyone
knowing (turn to 137)?

290
You hear a rustling from the curtains and straighten
up to look towards the window. You shudder with
fright as the curtains open before you! Just as quick-
ly, they shut again. Then there is silence. You walk
slowly over and grab them! But they are perfectly
ordinary curtains! You must add 1 FEAR point forthe
shock. Now do you wish to leave the room (turn to
2) or will you try to work out the mystery of the
curtains (turn to 150)?
291-292

291
In front of you is a high-backed armchair facing the
fire, with its back towards you. A figure raises itself
from the chair and turns to face you. The man is tall
and pale, with jet-black hair. He wears a long black
cape, fastened across the neck with a gold clasp.
‘Yes,’ he says, ‘so far you have fared well against the
occupants of the house. But I believe you will find
that your run of luck has come to an end. Step
forward so | can see you.’ Will you step forward as
he asks (turn to 326) or will you prepare to attack the
man (turn to 228)?

292
You pour a measure of the deep brown liquid into
one of the glasses and hold it up. It looks safe
enough, so you take a sip. Delicious! The brandy
warms you inside as it slips down and you may add
3 STAMINA points. You spy a hip-flask on a shelf in
one corner and you may take some of the brandy
with you if you wish. Now you can look around the
room. Do you wish to examine the corner shelf
where you found the hip-flask (turn to 192) or the
fireplace and the mantelpiece (turn to 303), or will
you leave this drawing-room (turn to 218)?

293-295

293
You open the door at the top of the stairs. Facing
you is a door, and to your right the hallway ends at
another door. Do you wish to enter the door oppo-
site (turn to 113), the door to your right (turn to 260)
or turn left into a main hallway (turn to 316)?

294
The door is locked. If you have any keys with you,
you may try them in the lock. Do you have a Golden
Key? If so, you can try it by turning to 10. If not, turn
to 204.

295

‘Secret rooms?’ she laughs. ‘Why this house is
riddled with secret passageways and secret rooms.
Most are in the cellar though, but some of the
upstairs passages lead to them. The most cunning
secret room is the Master’s most trusted hiding-
place. It can only be reached by one way, and that is
from under the stairs in the cellar. A password is
needed and 1 knew the old one, but it has recently
been changed. Shekou will know the new pass-
word .. .’ The woman’s eyes close, as if the con-
versation has been a great strain. You leave her be
and consider the information you have been given.
296

When you are in a position to find the secret door in
question (under the cellar stairs), you may try to
find it by deducting 10 from the reference you will be on at
the time, and turning to the new reference. No other clue
as to its location will be given. But first you must
find the password! Leave the room by turning to

159.

296

The key turns and the door opens. You step into the
dining-room. The long table is set for two with fine
silver. A sparkling chandelier, festooned with
candles, lights the room. The walls are covered with
plush red wallpaper. Full-length curtains are drawn
along one of the walls. You are prepared for your
battle. A rope hangs down by the curtains. You can
pull this, if you wish, to ring for the butler (turn to
318). Otherwise you can check round the room for
signs of any traps (turn to 185).

297-298

297
Score the points indicated for any of the following
choices:

Mammon 3 points
Man in white 2 points
Mordana 5 points
Man in grey 2 points

You score no points for any other selection. Now
turn to 141.

298
The handle turns and the door opens a little, but itis
caught on something and will not open any further.
Do you wish to try to force the door (turn to 390) or
will you leave it and continue along the landing
(turn to 287)?

299-300

299
The room you have entered is bare. Pin-striped
wallpaper covers the wall. A hearth is set in the
centre of one wail and on the mantelpiece there is a
small wooden box. Curtains are pulled together
along another wall, but they hang awkwardly, bulg-
ing at unnatural places. Do you wish to:

Investigate the bulging

curtains? Turn to 249
Open the box on the

mantelpiece? Turn to 197
Leave the room? Turn to 152

300

‘Ha!’ he laughs, continuing to advance as you back
towards the window. ‘All right, then. If you really
are not one of the Master’s brethren, make the sign of
the cross!’ You consider this harmless request. You
touch your forehead, then your chest, then each
shoulder, and look back at him. His eyes open wide.
‘Tt is true!’ he exclaims. ‘You really are an outsider!
Oh; my friend, how can you forgive me for my
inexcusable attack? How was I to know? For none of
301-302

the Master’s followers would dare to cross them-
selves!’ You tell him that you accept his apologies
and ask him whether he can help you. Do you wish
to ask him how you can escape from the house (turn
to 75) or how you may defeat the Master (turn to
105)?

301

Although you defeat their leader, you cannot hold
off the other three men, who surround and capture
you. One of them runs off to get the keys to the cells.
When he returns you are locked into the fourth cell.
Your adventure ends here . . .

302
You spring on the Hunchback and attack. Resolve
your battle:

HUNCHBACK SKILL 7 STAMINA 7

If you win, you may either head for the staircase
(turn to 393) or explore the cellar (turn to 166).

303-304

303

A fine carriage-clock sits in the centre of an elabor-
ately carved wooden mantelpiece. A number of
letters are jammed in behind the clock and you
reach for them. As you do so, your sleeve catches
one of the carved images in the woodwork and it
moves! You lean forward to examine it. It is a small
carved demonic face which can be moved sideways.
Do you wish to see what lies behind the wooden
face (turn to 85) or will you read through the letters
(turn to 364)?

304
Three portraits are particularly interesting. Will you
look at a beautiful young woman wearing a tiara
(turn to 151), a middle-aged, portly gentleman
wearing half-moon glasses (turn to 37) or an elderly
woman with grey hair and a cold expression (turn to

250)?

305-307

395

The door has a bolt on the outside. You undo the
bolt and open the door, peering cautiously into the
room. The walls are bare and it is sparsely fur-
nished, with only a table and chair. Sitting in a
corner asleep is aman ina white gown. As you open
the door he wakes with a start. ‘Oh, hello!’ he says.
‘suppose you’ve come for me, have you?’ Will you
say yes (turn to 127) or no (turn to 153)?

306

The door is firmly locked. You will not enter the
house this way. If you wish, you can knock at the
door to try to attract the attention of the two men
who were talking. If you decide to do this, you must
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, they will hear you
and come to investigate (turn to 190). If you are
Unlucky, they are out of earshot and you will not get
through this way. If you decide against knocking at
the door, or if you have been Unlucky, you will have
to go back to the front door and either knock (turn to
357) or pull the bell-pull (turn to 275).

307
You try the handle. It turns; the door is unlocked,
but the sound of voices puts you on your guard. You
inch the door open and look through the crack. It
reveals an elegant room with a polished wooden
floor. At one end is an enormous full-length mirror.
You can see the rest of the room reflected in this
mirror. A mural, depicting a tranquil country scene,
covers the wall facing the mirror. The reflection
308-309

shows the room to be empty, apart from a table and
chairs in the centre of the floor, but you can definite-
ly hear voices coming from inside the room. This is
all very puzzling, but you decide against entering
the room when one of the voices calls out, ‘Who's
that at the door?’ Instead you decide to leave quick-
ly! Will you go through the door opposite (turn to
217) or nip along the hallway (turn to 316)?

308
‘The people?’ he asks. ‘Ah, yes, the people. Of
course, Tonight is the night. There are many people
here. The Master is holding a special occasion
tonight and his friends are here. All are friends of
the Master. Thatis, all except the one in grey. For he
has betrayed the Master’s trust and he will be
punished. Yes, punished, before the night is out.
The Master put him in the Asmodeus room - and
he’s promised to let me watch. But you have no-
thing to fear if you are a friend of the Master. You are
a friend of the Master, aren't you? Perhaps he'll let
you watch, too!’ The Hunchback is giggling with
glee at the thought of the night’s activities. You have
gained all the useful information you wiil get out of
him, so you leave the room, locking him in. Turn to

350.

309
The dining-room looks magnificent. A long table
stretches between two fine chairs and is laid with
gleaming silvery cutlery. A rich red wallpaper cov-
ers the walis and the room is lit by a sparkling
310-313,

chandelier, bristling with candles, which hangs
from the ceiling. You take your seat and the butler
moves behind you to offer you wine. Will you take
white wine (turn to 269) or red (turn to 395)?

310
If you wish to look for secret doors, turn to 276.
Otherwise, return to the last reference and choose
again.

311
The book contains a collection of portraits of the
nobility painted many centuries ago. It is un-
doubtedly worth a small fortune. You may take it
with you if you wish, then leave the study by
turning to 54.

312

You enter the room and study its contents. It seems
that this room is used very little and is perhaps a
storeroom. White sheets are covering the furniture
and several large, square shapes which look like
boxes. Do you wish to rest here (turn to 261) or look
under the sheets to see what they are hiding (turn to
167)?

313
The man hesitates and eyes you suspiciously. You
tell him you mean him no harm and that you are
only looking for a way out of the house. ‘Fool!’ he
screams. ‘Do you expect me to believe your feeble
lies? You are one of them. And if they are to punish
Be

314

me, they will find that I will not give in without a
fight!’ With these words he advances towards you.
Do you wish to:

Try to persuade him that

you are not one of them? Turn to 34
Ask him how you can convince

him that he is wrong? Turn to 300
Spring at him quickly to

get in the first blow? Turn to 271

314

The pitch increases as the onlookers join hands and
circle the altar. The priest raises his knife into the air
and lets out a frenzied scream as he brings it down.
You force yourself to look away and suddenly, you
notice another passageway leading off from the
room. You look back at the gathering. They are all
busy with the sacrifice, smearing the unfortunate
victim’s blood ail over themselves. You seize your
opportunity and run for the passage. Test your Luck.
If you are Lucky, turn to 129. If you are Unlucky,
turn to 187.

315-317

315
‘All right, Orville, that will do for now,’ says the
torturer. He turns to you. Have you been convinc-
ing enough for him? Over the next five references,
some of the answers that he would have been
expecting are listed. Each one scores a number of
points. If you choose one of the words listed, record
how many points you score. When you have been
through all five references, you will have convinced
the torturer if your score is high enough. Now turn

to 235.

316
Two doors face each other across the hallway just
before it ends at a wall. Do you want to try the door
on the left (turn to 205) or the door on the right (turn
to 118)?

317
You cut yourself free and massage your wrists to get
the circulation moving again. Then you walk over to
the door to try it. Itis not locked! You try the handle,
open it a little, and look outside. Your room is on a
first-floor landing. Facing the door is a balustrade,
and looking over the banisters you can see the
entrance hall below. To your left, there are two
doors in the corner of the landing, which runs along
to the right. If you wish to go this way, turn to 287.
Looking to your right, the landing runs past another
door and then turns to the left. To go this way, turn

to 33.
318-320

318

A few moments later, Franklins, the butler, enters
the dining-room. He is startled to see you. You
demand to talk to the master of the house and he
agrees to pass on your request. Ten minutes later,
the Earl of Drumer comes storming angrily into the
room, with Franklins following close behind. They
stand facing you across the table, watching you
carefully. ‘Why have I been disturbed in the middle
of the night?’ he demands. You tell him that you
know of the evil that goes on in the house and that
you are determined to destroy it. The two men look
at each other, they nod and look back at you, then
they step apart and advance round the table to-
wards you, the Earl to your left and his butler to
your right. You must choose quickly whom you will
attack first. If you fight the Earl first, turn to 30. If
you attack Franklins first, turn to 351.

319
The butler brings in a plate of cheese and a steaming
pot of coffee. He cuts you a portion of cheese and
pours your coffee into a china cup. The conversation
continues. Turn to 74.

320
You shelter under the stairs and fend off the bats
with your hands. They soon discover that they
cannot get at you while you are tucked away; and
they flap off back to the corner from which they
came. When all is quiet again, you may decide your
next move. Will you head up the stairs and open the
321-323

door at the top (turn to 293) or will you remain to
explore the bats’ chamber (turn to 330)?

321

‘Before I will answer your question,’ she says, ‘you
must tell me something — what is my name?’ Do you
know what her name is? If so, you will have noted a
reference number to turn to, should you be asked
this question. Turn to this reference. If you do not
know her name, she will not answer your question
no matter what you threaten to do to her plants, and
you will have to leave the room by turning to 159.

322

The girl is hysterical. It seems that she is a district
nurse who has just been assigned to the area. She
knocked on the door, was invited in and then
captured. She pleads with you to help her and her
voice rises to a scream. But what can you do? The
keys to the cells are nowhere to be seen. You begin
to get worried that her hysterics may attract the
attentions of the occupants of the house and you try
to calm her down. Do you want to talk to one of the
others as well (turn to 143) or will you leave the
room quickly (turn to 91)?

323
The door is locked. The handle and lock are part of
an ornate metal plate. Do you have a cast-iron key
with you? If so, deduct the number on the key from
this reference number and turn to the resulting
reference to open the door. Otherwise, you must try
324-325

the door opposite — and quickly, because you can
hear footsteps approaching from the hallway. Turn
to 118.

324

The underside of the table forms a closed box, and
this arouses your suspicions. You knock on it. It is
hollow. Perhaps itis a secret compartment? You feel
around underneath and, sure enough, your fingers
find a small catch which releases a hidden drawer.
Inside this drawer is a leather box. But wait! What is
that noise? You can hear footsteps outside the door.
You will have to hide quickly. Will you grab the case
and take it with you (turn to 147) or will you leave it
behind and close the drawer (turn to 100)?

325
‘What is happening?’ he asks. ‘But surely you
know. Is that not why you are here? Tonight Brother
Isaacson is to receive the Master's blessing.’ Your
quizzical look takes the Hunchback by surprise. He
realizes he’s said the wrong thing. ‘You are not one
of the Master's friends, are you? A curse on me. I
should have realized,’ he moans. ‘The Master will

326-328

punish me for this. | must warn him!’ He hobbles
towards the door to try to escape, but you are too
quick for him. You force him out of the way and
spring outside the room, locking the door behind
you. Turn to 350.

326

The tall man spreads his cloak. He is staring directly
into your eyes and his dark pupils seem to pierce
your mind. At the last minute you panic and try to
break his gaze, but it is no use. You are under his
control. He covers you with his cape and your last
memory is a sharp stab as his teeth sink into your
neck.

327
You step over to the back door and grasp the
handle. The handle turns, but the door will not
open. It is locked and the key is nowhere about
— or is it? Do you want to grab the bunch of keys on
the cooker (turn to 148) or try the other door (turn
to 126)?

328

You leap into the centre of the ceremony with a loud
war-cry. The young woman looks up at you hope-
fully. Your daring rescue is commendable for its
bravery, but unbelievably stupid. For how can you
hope to stand your ground against forty opponents.
They surround you, grab you and the priest cuts
your throat with his knife. You deserved to die!
F
3297331

329
Outside the Belial room you have two options. Do
you wish to try the Abaddon room across the way
(turn to 335) or would you rather now head to the
staircase and creep downstairs (turn to 132)?

330
Where do you wish to look?
In the corner from which
the bats came? Turn to 165
Along the back wail? Turn to 356
Under the stairs? Turn to 61

331

Although you fight the power that draws you to the
book, its force is greater than your resistance.
Gradually your will is overcome. As you collapse on
the floor, your spirit is sucked out of your body and
into the eye. Like the other weak-willed victims who
have already come under the book's power, you are
doomed to an eternal life of agony trapped within
the pupil of the Hypnotic Eye.
332-334

332

At the end of the corridor ahead of you is a stout
wooden door. While you are considering whether
or not to try this room, a noise behind you startles
you. You spin round, only to find that the wind is
rustling wall-hangings; there is nothing to be afraid
of. You turn back, and are amazed to find a faint,
white figure has appeared in front of you! This
apparition is a young woman in her early twenties,
with long flowing hair. She is dressed in a white
bridal dress which has seen better days; it is ripped
and torn. ‘Oh, thank God I have found you in time!’
she says. ‘I must talk to you immediately! Come, let
us go into this room.’ Will you follow her into the
room (turn to 73) or do you suspect a trap and would
rather turn back (turn to 279)? Whichever you
choose, you must add 1 FEAR point for your encoun-
ter.

333
Orville is now getting the hang of this game and is

enjoying himself. M is his next letter. Write im-
mediately or lose another stamina point. Then
turn to 76.

334
Your cold stare frightens the man. ‘I see you really

are one of the Master's loyal friends,’ he whimpers.
‘Ler. . . merely suggested that to make sure I was
talking to an honourable person. | expect my time
has come, has it?’ He looks at you pitifully and
drops to his knees. Again you merely glare at him
i ee

335-336

silently. Suddenly he reacts! Before you can stop
him, he has pulled a short dagger from his robe and,
with both hands, has plunged it into his stomach!
You watch, horrified, as the man slumps to the
floor, face downwards. Any knowledge that you
could have gained from him has now been lost. You
curse silently and leave the room. Turn to 278.

335
You enter a bedroom which is lit by a single candle

burning by the bedside. A heavy, musty odour
hangs in the air, which could come from all the
plants which are standing in pots on the mantel-
piece, bedside table, dresses and shelves. Whoever
used this room certainly liked plants! But another
sight catches your attention; and stops you in your
tracks. Asleep in the bed is an old woman! It seems
that she has not heard you, for she has not moved
since you entered the room. Do you wish to leave
her in peace (tum to 159), walk over and wake her
(turn to 139) or will you instead spring over and
attack her before she can wake (turn to 354)?

336
You catch up with the butler in the corner of the
room. Resolve your fight with him and, if you are
attacking with the Kris dagger, add 3 points to your
SKILL during the battle:

FRANKLINS SKILL 8 STAMINA 8

When you have inflicted your first wound on Frank-
lins, turn to 181,
337-338

337
You walk over to the mantelpiece and study the

trinkets scattered along it. A couple of lacquer boxes
and a picture-frame (with no picture) flank a large
plant-pot with a broad-bladed plant growing init. In
the grate below are several lumps of coal resting ona
bed of paper—a fire all ready to light. But something
else is in the grate. A black-and-white photograph
has been thrown on to the coals. Do you wish to
check the contents of the boxes (turn to 242) or pick
up the photograph to look at it (turn to 199)?

338

The bedside table catches your attention; particular-
ly the silver tray. Laid out on it is a bedtime snack of
bread, jam and tea. You examine it carefully and
decide it should be safe enough. You sit down on
the bed and help yourself. It is delicious! You may
add 4 sTAMINA points and 1 Luck point for this
find. When you are ready, leave the room by turn-
ing to 243.

338-341

339
You are standing by two doors, and each has a

name-plate. Ahead of you is the Asmodeus room.
You may try this door by- turning to 154. To your
right is the Eblis room, which you can enter by
turning to 125; or you can follow the corridor until it
turns left by turning to 252.

340
You feel around on the floor, but come across only
earth and straw. A shuffling at the door reminds
you of the visitor approaching. Turn to 263.

341 -
At the end of the bench is a rack which holds four
glass vials, and each vial contains a coloured liquid.
They look like the results of someone’s experiment.
Are you willing to risk taking a sip of one of these
liquids? If so, which colour will you choose:

Green? Turn to 149
Red? Turn to 274
Clear? Turn to 256
Yellow? Turn to 161

If this seems a little too dangerous, you may instead
look through the drawers (turn to 81) or the cup-
boards (turn to 371).

342-344

342
The door is not locked, but the shufflings and

yelpings that you can hear inside suggest that you
ought to proceed with caution. Will you decide
against entering and examine the passageway you
are in (turn to 60), or will you fling the door open
wide and stride boldly in (turn to 14)?

343
Fight the bats as a single creature:

BATS SKILL 4 STAMINA 4

If you defeat the bats, you may either climb the
stairs and open the door at the top (turn to 293), or
you can explore the bats’ chamber (turn to 330).

344
The door is firmly locked. Whoever is in there
doesn’t want to be disturbed. Will you now open
the door on the right-hand wall (turn to 209) or press
on (turn to 91)?

345-346

345
The lit window is next to a back door which leads

into a kitchen. Voices are coming from the kitchen,
but you cannot see anyone. Whoever is in there
must be standing by the back wall, out of sight. You
strain to hear what is being said. There appear to be
two people in the kitchen, and they are talking
excitedly. ’. . . Master is getting ready. I'm starting
to get excited. I’ve never been to one before. Do you
really think we may be visited?’ Another man’s
voice, rather more controlled, replies: ‘You know,
I'm having doubts about this whole affair. She is so
young and she came here in all innocence. I just
don’t know.’ The two men walk around the kitchen
and you can see them more clearly. They are both
dressed in white gowns. One is a good deal younger
than the other. Do you wish to knock on the door to
see whether they will let you in (turn to 207), or will
you wait and listen for a little longer (turn to 68)?

346
How will you try to escape? You must go back down
the corridor and turn right, But will you proceed
cautiously, ready to nip into the rooms you pass if
you hear anyone (turn to 257), or will you race for
the staircase and run back downstairs (turn to 132)?
347-350

347
The Hunchback has had enough of your chat and
turns to go through the door on the left. He points
down the passageway, saying, ‘Head on down here
for the stairs.’ Turn to 91.

348
You force yourself free from the pillow and leap out
of bed, gasping. Was it just your imagination, or
were the bedclothes really trying to suffocate you?
In any case, you decide that you are definitely not
welcome in this room. You get dressed and walk out
of the room back on to the landing. Turn to 121.

349
You wait until there is silence in the drawing-room

and step carefully back through the mirror into the
room. The coast is clear. You walk over to the door
and leave the room. Turn to 131.

350
You are ona landing overlooking the entrance hall.

To your right, the passageway ends ata door. To the
left, the landing turns right past a couple of doors.

351-353

Do you wish to turn to the right (turn to 332), or
would you prefer to follow the landing round to the
left (turn to 257)?

351

You turn towards the butler. He stops and takes a
step backwards; you step forwards. Franklins runs
round to the other side of the table. ‘Franklins!’
screams the Earl. ‘Move in, man! Step up and
attack!’ The butler twitches nervously. Will you
continue pursuing him (turn to 336) or will you
leave the cowardly butler for the time being and
concentrate on the Earl (turn to 30)?

352
‘Next letter, Orville’ shouts the torturer. Orville
thinks, and says: ‘A’. Write down your answer
straight away or lose a point of STAMINA. Then turn

to 57.

353
The door opens into a large, but cosy, drawing-

room. The dying embers of a warm fire burn in the
hearth. Comfortable chairs are arranged around the
fireplace. Two glasses and a decanter stand on a
glass-topped table between the chairs. There are
plants in tall stands on either side of the windows,
and there is another door next to the one you came
in. Do you wish to explore the room further (turn to
119), leave through the other door (turn to 218) or
354-355

will you have a little tipple from the decanter (turn
to 292)?

354
You creep over to the bedside. She does not move.
You raise your hands over your head, ready to
strike. You take a deep breath and tense your
muscles . . . Her eyes flick open! She stares vacantly
up into the air with milky-white eyes and the sight
makes you shudder with horror. Her blank eyes have
no pupils! A cold sweat breaks out on your brow and
your hands drop to your sides impotently. You
must add 3 FEAR points for the shock. Will you turn
and run through the door back into the passageway
(turn to 159) or wait to see what happens next (turn

to 246)?

355
You grope around in the blackness and find no-
thing. If you wish, you may Test your Luck — if you
are Lucky turn to 50; if you are Unlucky turn to 340.
Otherwise you can wait to see whether the
approaching figure will be able to help you (turn to

263).

350-357

356

You feel along the wall for any sign of a secret
entrance, but find nothing. Just as you are begin-
ning to think you are wasting your time, your left
hand dislodges a brick. Behind the brick is a lever.
You pull the lever and a rumbling noise comes from
the wall near by. A section of the wall slides to one
side, revealing a small entrance just large enough
for you to climb through. You look inside, but it is
pitch-black. Do you want to step through this door-
way (turn to 387) or would you rather not risk it and
climb the stairs instead (turn to 293)?

357
A few moments later, the door-handle turns slowly

and the door opens. Standing in the doorway is a
tall man dressed in a dark suit with tails. His long
face is solemn. ‘Yes?’ he asks, indignantly. You
smile nervously and explain your situation. Your
car has broken down, you need to reach a telephone
and you are soaked to the skin. The man’s face
remains expressionless. ‘Come in,’ he orders. ‘The
Master is expecting you. Follow me.’ He leads you
into a reception hall and tells you to sit down while
he informs his master of your arrival. Turn to 8.

358-360

358

The door opens and you peer into the room. You
quickly check that there is no one inside and are
relieved to find it’s empty — but full of clutter. It
seems to be a crude scientific laboratory of some
sort. A brass telescope points through the window
towards the sky. Charts and mathematical tables are
pinned to the walls. A human skeleton hangs froma
hook, and a bench is covered with glass vials and
apparatus. They look like priceless antiques, and
they were probably all made in the last century.
Do you wish to investigate the room further (turn
to 117), or would you prefer to leave (turn to 11)?

359
You explain that you have no wish to kill him and he
steps back, puzzled. ‘Do you mean you're not one of
the coven? You’re an outsider?’ You nod. An elated
expression spreads across his face. Turn to 208.

360

You grit your teeth and shove your bound hands
against the window-pane, rope first. Your first blow
is not hard enough to break the glass, so you try
again. This time the glass shatters and some large
pieces fall on to the floor. But your desperate action
does not leave you unhurt. You receive a nasty gash
on your left wrist. Deduct 2 stamina points and
turn to 317.
361-363

361

You pull the garlic out of your pocket and hold it up
before the man. His expression changes from one of
confidence to a look of fright. As you suspected, this
VAMPIRE cannot bear to be near raw garlic. Sweat
breaks out on his forehead and he backs off towards
the bed. He is heading for one of the other doors in
the room. You hurriedly look round, trying to de-
cide the best way out. Will you try the door on the
left (turn to 189), the door on the right, which he was
heading for (turn to 270), or will you turn round and
dash quickly for the door you came in through (turn.
to go)?

362

You taste the liquid. It is white wine! You drink
some more and it warms you. You start to feel a little
light-headed and dizzy; then suddenly you feel a
stab of pain in your stomach and you double over.
But there is no relief from this pain, because you
have drunk a bottle of poisoned wine! In a few
moments you will lose consciousness and in five
minutes you will be dead. You will never make
tomorrow’s appointment after all . . .

363,
You step up to the balding man’s cell. ‘Do not waste
your time in here,’ he says, ‘for you cannot help us.
Our only hope is that you can destroy the evil in this
house before it destroys us. But that is unlikely,
because you would have to destroy the Master first.
He may only be killed with the Kris knife and the
364

battle may only take place in a red room — to symbol-
ize a battle taking place in hell itself. The dining-
room upstairs has red walls, but it is always locked
and the key is hidden behind the mirror when
ceremonies are taking place. If you can find the Kris
knife and the key, then you may save the world
from the devilry that is brewing within these walls.
But as for us, we will all be dead before the night is
out. Don’t waste your time with us.’ You listen to
his advice and consider whether you ought to leave
immediately, as he suggests (turn to 91) or whether
you should talk to the others (turn to 143).

364

The letters are not particularly interesting except for
one from a foreign address, written in immaculate
handwriting with a broad-nibbed black pen. It is
addressed to the Earl of Drumer and appears to
warn him of possible dangers. It starts by describing
araid of some sort on the writer’s house and how he
narrowly escaped being caught. It ends with a P.S.
which says: ‘also suggest you further protect your-
self by changing the password on your own cache
room. I for one know it is Goathead. How many
others know the same? Why not change it to some-
thing which will remind you of the sound advice of a
good friend?’ The letter is signed by ‘Count
Pravemi’. You read this through again and replace
the letter. Do you now wish to leave the room (turn
to 218) or will you tum your attention back to the
small wooden face on the mantelpiece (turn to 85)?
Fe

365-366

365
You put up a good fight, but the sheer numbers of
the devil-worshippers overwhelm you. You are cap-
tured and will remain so until you feel the priest's
knife on the sacrificial altar— for you will be the next
victim.

366

You head back down the corridor until you reach
the stairs again. The passageway runs past the stairs
and you decide to continue this way. A little further
along you come to a small flight of stairs; but the
passageway is so dark that you do not notice them
in time. You tumble down and land in a heap at the
bottom. Lose 1 STAMINA point. Turn to 264.

367-368

367

You cough lightly and step forward. The man turns
towards you and jumps back, startled. You apolo-
gize for frightening him and explain your situation.
He eyes you suspiciously and calms down, saying:
‘Ofcourse I'll help you! Er, ahem. . . follow me.’ As
he turns and walks through the door you can see
that he is not bent over double, but has a hunched
back. You follow him from the room. Turn to 210.

368
There is nothing of interest in the cupboards. You
may now leave the room by turning to 243.

369-370

369

You watch the door-handle cautiously, preparing
yourself for whoever or whatever should appear. The
handle turns . . . and then it’s released. The shuf-
fling noise disappears down the passageway. Your
visitor has decided to leave this room alone! Breath-
ing a sigh of relief, you sit down on the bed. But
what will your next plan be? Would you like to take
a short nap and perhaps gain some STAMINA (turn
to 262) or would you rather leave the room and
either follow the passage round (turn to 252) or
return to the landing (turn to 272)?

370

The bats claw at you as you run up the stairs, but
you manage to reach the top without any serious
wounds, Deduct 1 sTAMINA point for the cuts and
scratches. At the top of the stairs is a door. Light
shines under the door and frightens the bats away.
You may open it, but be careful to do so slowly.
Turn to 293.

371-372

37

You step over to the cupboards and try the doors.
They are not locked. You grasp the handles and
open the cupboard doors wide. Just as quickly, you
slam them shut! Shaking nervously, you step away,
holding your hands up to your gaping mouth, For
the sight inside has given you a terrible shock, and
you must add 2 FEAR points. Hanging from hooks
inside the cupboards are two corpses which have
evidently been used for experiments of some kind.
The blood has not yet dried on these corpses — and
they are still warm! You lean back against the bench
to compose yourself. Turn to 385.

372

You sit on the bed, trying to work out how on earth
you can escape from this place. The room you are
now in seems safe enough and the rest refreshes
you ~ add 2 stAMINa points. But a few moments
later, the wind whistling through the curtains
attracts your attention. You glance over towards the
window. Turn to 168.

373-376

373
The door opens slowly and a man shuffles into the

room carrying a glass containing a clear liquid. He
appears to be bent double and his movements are
slow. As he gets nearer to the bed, you realize he
will soon notice that you are not there. Do you want
to nip out of the room quickly and lock the door
behind you (turn to 350) or will you leap on the man
and attack him (turn to 399)?

374
The landing turns right and a passage branches off.

You may either turn left down the passageway and
past a couple of doors before turning left again (turn
to 339); or turn right, following the landing (turn to
272).

375
You step back up to the fireplace and examine the

secret button again. Will you press it (turn to 392) or
will you leave the drawing-room (turn to 218)?

376
You glance at the bed and an idea dawns on you.
Perhaps you could hide under the bedclothes —
there is nowhere else in the room to hide. If you
wish to try this, turn to 262. Otherwise turn to 369.
377-380

377
You step into a small storeroom and close the door

behind you. There are shelves on the left and right
walls, on which various household objects are
stored. In front of you, in the wall facing the door, is
another door. What do you want to do? Will you
search through the things on the shelves (turn to
83), try the door opposite (turn to 255) or return to
the landing (turn to 233)?

378
The hallway outside is clear. You decide against
turning right and following the passageway, which
is a dead end. You may enter the Eblis room to your
immediate left (turn to 125) or you may continue
back towards the landing and follow it (turn to 272).

379
You still find no signs of any traps. Ring for the

butler by turning to 318.

380

You keep a suspicious eye on the room while you
consider your next move. Suddenly, one of the
sheets flaps. Was it the wind? No, you think, the air
is perfectly still. You watch the sheet. Slowly, it rises
into the air as if it was being pulled up on a rope!
Add 1 FEAR point and decide quickly what to do.
Will you grab the sheet (turn to 70) or leave the room
and slam the door firmly behind you (turn to 329)?
381-382

381

‘Right, then!’ says the torturer. ‘Let’s see if you
really do know the Master or not. Orville here will
give you a letter. You tell me the first word that
comes into your head beginning with that letter. If
you take your time and think too long about your
answer, Dirk will tighten the rack. Got that? All
right, let’s start.’ Each time the torturer’s assistant
gives you a letter, you must write down ona piece of
paper the first word you can think of which begins
with that letter and relates to the house. After your
test is complete, the torturer will consider your
answers and then decide whether or not he believes
your story. To start (when you have pencil and
paper ready), turn to 38.

382
You leave the Diabolus room and are standing once
more in the narrow corridor outside. Do you wish to
turn left to investigate the window (turn to 110) or
would you rather return to the landing and follow it
round (turn to 193)?

383-384

383

You step back from the battle, nurse your wounds
and look at the eight dead bodies on the floor. You
shake your head at the senseless waste of life.
Searching round the room, you find nothing of any
value. But if you are thirsty, there is a jug of water in
one corner of the room. Presumably this is drinking-
water for the dogs. You may drink from it if you
wish. If you do, you may gain 2 STAMINA points if
your STAMINA score was less than 12. If it was more
than 12, you will gain no sTAMINA points, as you
were not thirsty, You decide to leave the room and
explore the passageway outside. Turn to 60.

384

You pull out a heavy book with a large eye em-
bossed on the spine. The cover has no title and you
flick the book open. The frontispiece is an elaborate-
ly detailed drawing of a symbolic eye. You cannot
help staring at the illustration and, as you do so, the
dark pupil seems to glint as if it were made of glass.
Shapes start to appear and faint sounds reach your
ears. The sounds are screams of agony! The shapes
in the eye are contorted human faces racked with
pain! You shiver with fright as you look at the poor
wretches, and you must add 2 FEaR points, Realiz-
ing what is happening, you try to close the book, but
something is compelling you to keep on staring at
the eye. Roll two dice and compare the total with
your SKILL score. If your roll exceeds your skill, turn
to 331. Otherwise turn to 39.
385-386

385

Suddenly your ears prick up at the sound of foot-
steps coming closer. You nip into the shadows and
wait. The footsteps stop outside the door and you
can hear two voices talking: ‘Hadn’t we better ask
the Master’s permission?’ one asks. ‘Hmm. Maybe
you're right. And we'd better get a light for the
lamps.’ You breathe a sigh of relief as the footsteps
disappear off in the direction you approached the
room. You decide it is best to leave before they
return and you open the door on to the landing. The
safest way to go, it strikes you, is away from the two
visitors, who may return at any moment. If you
approached this room from the left, turn to 229; if
you came from the right, turn to 26.

386

You clear your throat and call out softly; you certain-
ly don’t want to disturb anyone else in the house.
There is no reply. You step forwards, stumble over a
chamber-pot and crash to the floor. That's strange,
you think ~ surely you would have seen right in
front of you. You rise to your feet and wince. You
have banged your knee badly. Deduct 2 STAMINA
points and turn to 290.

387-388

387

You find yourself in a dark tunnel. It is quite short,
and ends at a door. You open the door slowly and,
when you are sure there is no one inside, you step
into the room. It seems to be some sort of ceremonial
ante-room or dressing-room. Hanging from hooks
around the walls are thirty to forty white gowns,
and resting on shelves underneath the gowns are
macabre masks, made from goats’ heads. A single
passageway leads off to the left. While you are
wondering where to go next, a sound sends a chill
down your spine. Someone is coming! A hubbub of
voices grows louder as a group of people come
towards the room. You look quickly round for
somewhere to hide and decide to nip behind the
door. Suddenly the door opens and about forty
people come into the room, all chattering excitedly.
You mingle with them and merge unnoticed into
the crowd. They are ribbing a man called Brother
Isaacson. It seems that tonight is a very significant
night for him. You copy what they are doing,
laughing and smiling, and even getting dressed up
in a gown and mask. Eventually, when they are
dressed, they all move off along the other passage-
way. Will you go along with them (turn to 122) or
will you hang around at the back, hoping to stay
behind unnoticed in the room (turn to 219)?

388
‘Before I wil] answer your question,’ she says, ‘you
must tell me something — what is my name?’ Do you
know what her name is? If so, you will have noted
389-394

down a reference number to turn to, should you be
asked this question. Turn to this reference. If you do
not know her name, she will not answer your
question no matter what you threaten to do to her
plants and you must leave the room by turning to

159.

389
You step into the passageway and follow the hall
round to the right; back to where it rejoins the
landing. You carry straight on. Turn to 272.

390

You heave the door with your shoulder. The wood
creaks and it opens a little further; enough to let you
into the room. It is small and bare; and a cold, damp
wind swirls through it, billowing the curtains. The
window pane is smashed and the floor beneath the
window is sodden from the rain. You look around,
but there is nothing unusual in the room, apart from
a frayed length of knotted rope. You may take this
with you if you wish and leave. As you pull the door
to you find a piece of glass wedged underneath it,
which was making it stick. You turn left out of the
room and continue along the landing. Turn to 287.

39%
You race across to the door and twist the handle.
Aaaadh! You stifle a scream and release the handle
immediately as an electric shock runs up your arm.
Lose 2 STAMINA points and turn to 277.
392-393

392

You press the button and hear a small click. Then
you hear another sound and you swing round to
face the corner shelf. Beside this shelf, a sliding
panel has opened in the wall. You walk over to
investigate and bend down to look at the opening.
Too late, you realize that the panel has revealed, not
a tunnel at all, but a false opening. The wall behind
is solid. But it has servediits purpose: you have been
lured into a trap! You are standing on a trap-door
which opens beneath you and you fall downwards.
Turn to 397.

393
The passageway widens into a small chamber.

Although it is dark, you can see a staircase going up
a few metres ahead of you. To your right, the
chamber opens out into a wide area. You step
forwards and, almost immediately, a twittering
noise puts you on your guard. Suddenly you feel
394-395

something land on your head and dig sharp claws
into your scalp! You gasp and swat it away. Your
hand touches a small, leathery body and a pair of
wings start to flap as it rises from your head. BATS!
A number of them are flapping around your head,
darting and scratching with their claws. You must
add 1 FEAR point for the shock. Do you wish:

To run up the stairs? Turn to 370

To hide under the stairs? Turn to 320

To fight the bats? Turn to 343
394

The fire and the brandy warm you and you begin to
feel more relaxed. You may deduct 1 FEAR point if
you have any. You explain to the Earl what hap-
pened on the road and that you would like to use his
telephone to call the local garage. ‘I’m afraid our
telephone line came down tonight in the storm,’ he
replies. ‘We will have it repaired tomorrow morn-
ing. In any case, the garage would not come out
here at this hour. But don’t worry. You are perfectly
welcome to spend the night here; I am glad of the
company. Tomorrow Franklins will take you into
town. Ah! Here is Franklins now.’ The butler comes
back in to announce that a meal is ready. You both
rise to go into the dining-room. Turn to 309.

395
The wine is impeccable; a fine vintage. Soup fol-

lows, and then you may choose either lamb (turn to
196) or duck (turn to 115) for your main course. Or
396-397

you can tell your host that you have already eaten
and you are not hungry (turn to 244).

396

The tall cage is lowered from the wall. The back
opens and you are shoved inside. It is a tight fit and
you are forced up against the bars as the door is
locked behind you. One of the torturer’s assistants
winches you up in the air. You will hang, sus-
pended from a rope until your STAMINA runs out
from starvation. If hunger does not take its toll
quickly enough, the cramps probably will. For
although you are standing up, you may not sit or
lean in the cage. Your adventure is as good as
over...

397

Down you fall for several metres until you finally
land in a heap on something soft. Add 1 FEAR point
for the fright and Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
you are unhurt. If you are Unlucky, you have
twisted your wrist — deduct 1 SKILL point. You pick
yourself up and verify there is no serious damage.
You have landed on a mound of earth and hay and
you realize that you are in a cellar underneath the
house. The room is fairly small, with one door.
Outside you can hear a shuffling noise coming
closer. Will you spring behind the door to surprise
whatever is approaching (turn to 6), or will you
quickly search the room for a weapon in case you
need to defend yourself (turn to 355)?
398-400

398
The stairs are very dark. You take a few steps down,
trying desperately to see the stairs below you. Sud-
denly your foot slips and you lose your balance.
Lose 3 STAMINA points as you tumble down the
stairs, landing in a heap at the bottom. Turn to 264.

399
Your visitor is a HUNCHBACK and he is both
surprised and frightened as you leap on him. Re-
solve your battle:

HUNCHBACK SKILL 7 STAMINA 7

When you have reduced his staMrNa to 4 points or
less, turn to 220.

400
The creature howls as you strike the final blow. It
totters on its hooves and crashes down on to the
table. As it falls, its flailing arms smash into the
chandelier in the centre of the room, scattering
candles on to the floor. From behind you another
cry goes up and your other attacker, whom you
have forgotten about completely, springs over to
the table to hug the beast pitifully. You ought to kill
both of them; but the pathetic, sobbing creature

hunched over the huge bulk is hardly worth con-
sidering. In any case, something else, much more
dangerous, has caught your attention. One of the
candles which was knocked from the chandelier
has rolled across the floor and set light to the heavy
curtains. The fire is spreading rapidly — you must
escape quickly!

Smoke is beginning to creep out of the room as you
close the front door behind you. Walking down the
drive you glance back to see the fire making rapid
progress through the ground floor. Flames are lick-
ing along the wooden beams. In an hour or so, the
place will be beyond rescue. From a safe distance
you watch the fire destroy the house.

A fitting end, you think, for a house of hell.

Part story, oo game, this is a book in
which YOU become the hero!

Taking refuge in the infamous House of
_ Hell has to be the worst mistake of your
life! The dangers of the torrential storm
outside are nothing compared to the
blood-curdling adventures that await
you inside. Who knows how many
hapless wanderers like yourself have
perished within its gruesome walls? Be
warned! roe is going to be a night to
remember . .

Two ico. a pencil and an eraser are all
you need to make your journey. YOU
decide which way to go, which dangers to
risk and which monsters to fight.

A short version of House of Hell was first published in
WARLOCK magazine.

FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS

a world-wide sensation

? ae eeMige: 0 Papa ee

Cover illustration by Ian Miller

