Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone present:

Jamie Thomson and Mark Smith
Hlustrated by Bob Harvey

Puffin Books
Puffin Books, Penguin Books Ltd, Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England
Viking Penguin Inc., 40 West 23rd Street, New York, New York 10010, U.S.A.
Penguin Books Australia Ltd, Ringwood, Victoria, Australia
Penguin Books Canada Ltd, 2801 John Street, Markham, Ontario, Canada L3R 1B4
Penguin Books (N.Z.) Ltd, 182-190 Wairau Road, Auckland 10, New Zealand

First published 1984
Reprinted 1985 (twice)

Concept copyright © Steve fackson and lan Livingstone
Text Copyright © Jamie Thomson and Mark Smith, 1985
Mustrations copyright © Bob Harvey, 1985
All rights reserved

Printed and bound in Great Britain by
Cox & Wyman Ltd, Reading
‘Typeset in 11/13 pt Linotron Palatino by
Rowland Phototypesetting Ltd
Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk

Except in the United States of America,
this book is sold subject to the condition
that it shall not, by way of trade or otherwise.
be lent, re-sold, hired out. or otherwise circulated
without the publisher's prior consent in any form of
binding or cover other than that in which it is
published and without a similar condition
including this condition being imposed
on the subsequent purchaser

CONTENTS

HOW TO FIGHT THE CREATURES OF ORB

7
EQUIPMENT AND POTIONS
45
HINTS ON PLAY
17
ADVENTURE SHEET
18
BACKGROUND
20
- TALISMAN OF DEATH

25
HOW TO FIGHT THE CREATURES
OF ORB

Before embarking on your adventure, you must first
determine your own strengths and weaknesses.
You have in your possession a sword, a backpack
containing provisions (food and drink), and fire
flares to combat the dark terrors of Orb. After weeks
of intensive training, your sword-play is swift and
deadly.

To discover the strength of your courage and the
power of luck, -you must use the dice to determine
your initial sraMINA and LucK scores. On pages
18-19 there is an Adventure Sheet which you may use
to record the details of an adventure. On it you will
find boxes for recording your SKILL and STAMINA
and LUCK scores.

You are advised either to record your scores on the
Adventure Sheet in pencil or to make photocopies of
the page to use in future adventures.
Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter this
total in the sk1LL box on the Adventure Sheet.

Roll both dice. Add 12 to the number rolled and
enter this total in the sraMINA box.

Roll one die, add 6 to this number and enter this
total in the Luck box.

For reasons that will be explained below, sxILu,
STAMINA and LUCK scores change constantly dur-
ing an adventure. You must keep an accurate record
of these scores and for this reason you are advised
either to write small in the boxes or to keep an eraser
handy. But never rub out your Initial scores.
Although you may be awarded additional skILt,
STAMINA and LUCK points, these totals may never
exceed your Initial scores.

Your SKILt score reflects your swordsmanship and
general fighting expertise; the higher the better.
Your STAMINA score reflects your general constitu-
tion, your will to survive, your determination and
overall fitness; the higher your sraMINa score, the
longer you will be able to survive. Your Luck score
indicates how naturally lucky a person you are.
Luck ~ and magic — are facts of life in the fantasy
kingdom you are about to explore.
Battles

You will often come across pages in the book which
instruct you to fight a creature of some sort. An
option to flee may be given, but if not - or if you
choose to attack the creature anyway - you must
resolve the battle as described below.

First record the creature’s skILL and STAMINA
scores in the first vacant Monster Encounter Box on
your Adventure Sheet. The scores for each creature
are given in the book each time you have an encoun-
ter.

The sequence of combat is then:

1. Roll both dice once for the creature. Add its
SKILL score. This total is the creature’s Attack
Strength.

2. Roll both dice once for yourself. Add the number
rolled to your current SKILL score. This total is
your Attack Strength.

3. If your Attack Strength is higher than that of the
creature, you have wounded it. Proceed to step
4. If the creature’s Attack Strength is higher than
yours, it has wounded you. Proceed to step 5. If
both Attack Strength totals are the same, you
have avoided each other's blows - start the next
Attack Round from step 1 above.

4. You have wounded the creature, so subtract 2
points from its STAMINA score. You may use
your Luck here to do additional damage (see
over).
5. The creature has wounded you, so subtract 2
points from your own STAMINA score. Again
you may use LUCK at this stage (see over).

6. Make the appropriate adjustments to either the
creature’s or your Own STAMINA scores (and
your LUCK score if you used LUCK -— see over).

7. Begin the next Attack Round by returning to
your current SKILL score and repeating steps
1-6. This sequence continues until the STAMINA
score of either you or the creature you are
fighting has been reduced to zero (death).

Escaping

On some pages you may be given the option of
running away from a battle should things be going
badly for you. However, if you do run away, the
creature automatically gets in one wound on you
(subtract 2 STAMINA points) as you flee. Such is the
price of cowardice. Note that you may use LUCK on
this wound in the normal way (see below). You may
only Escape if that option is specifically given to you
on the page.

Fighting More Than One Creature

Sometimes you will find yourself under attack from
more than one person or creature. When this hap-
pens, each will have a separate attack on you in each
Attack Round but you must choose which one you
will fight. Attack your chosen target as in normal
battle. Against the other, you must throw for your

10
Attack Strength in the normal way but, even if your
Attack Strength is greater, you will not inflict a
wound. Just count this as though you have parried
an incoming blow. However, if your Attack
Strength is lower, you will have been wounded in
the normal way.

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either in
battles or when you come across situations in which
you could either be lucky or unlucky (details of
these are given on the pages themselves), you may
call on your LUCK to make the outcome more favour-
able. But beware! Using Luckisa risky business and
if you are unlucky, the results could be disastrous.

The procedure for using your LucKis as follows: roll
two dice. If the number rolled is equal to or less than
your current LUCK score, you have been lucky and
the result will go in your favour. If the number
rolled is higher than your current LUCK score, you
have been unlucky and you will be penalized.

This procedure is known as Testing your Luck. Each
time you Test your Luck, you must subtract one point
from your current LUCK score. Thus you will soon
realize that the more you rely on your Luck, the
more risky this will become.

iu
Using Luck in Battles

On certain pages of the book you will be told to Test
your Luck and will be told the consequences of your
being lucky or unlucky. However, in battles, you
always have the option of using your Luck either to
inflict a more serious wound on a creature you have
just wounded, or to minimize the effects of a wound
the creature has just inflicted on you.

If you have just wounded the creature, you may Test
your Luck as described above. If you are Lucky, you
have inflicted a severe wound and may subtract an
extra 2 points from the creature’s STAMINA Score.
However, if you are Unlucky, the wound was a
mere graze and you must restore 1 point to the
creature’s STAMINA (i.e. instead of scoring the nor-
mal 2 points of damage, you have now scored only

1).

If the creature has just wounded you, you may Test
your Luck to try to minimize the wound. If you are
Lucky, you have managed to avoid the full damage
of the blow. Restore 1 point of stamina (i.e. instead
of doing 2 points of damage it has one only 1). If you
are Unlucky, you have taken a more serious blow.
Subtract 1 extra STAMINA point.

Remember that you must subtract 1 point from your
own LUCK score each time you Test your Luck.

12
Restoring Skill, Stamina and Luck

Skill

Your SKILL score will not change much during your
adventure. Occasionally, a page may give instruc-
tions to increase or decrease your SKILL score. A
Magic Weapon may increase your SKILL, but re-
member that only one weapon can be used ata time!
You cannot claim 2 SKILL bonuses for carrying two
Magic Swords. Your SKILL score can never exceed
its Initial value. Drinking the Potion of Skill (see
later) will restore your SKILL to its Initial level atany
time.

Stamina and Provisions

Your STAMINA score will change a lot during your
adventure as you fight monsters and undertake
arduous tasks. As you near your goal, your sTA-
MINA level may be dangerously low and battles may
be particularly risky, so be careful!

Your backpack contains enough Provisions for ten
meals. You may rest and eat at any time except
when engaged in a Battle. Eating a meal restores 4
STAMINA points. When you eat a meal, add 4 points
to your STAMINA score and deduct 1 point from
your Provisions, A separate Provisions Remaining
box is provided on the Adventure Sheet for recording
details of Provisions. Remember that you have a
long way to go, so use your Provisions wisely!

33
Remember also that your STAMINA score may never
exceed its Initial value. Drinking the Potion of
Strength (see later) will restore your sTA MINA to its
Initial level at any time.

Luck

Additions to your Luck score are awarded through
the adventure when you have been particularly
lucky. Details are given on the pages of the book.
Remember that, as with skIL. and STAMINA, your
LUCK score may never exceed its Initial value. Drink-
ing the Potion of Fortune (see later) will restore your
LUCK toits Initial level at any time, and increase your
Initial LUCK by 1 point.

EQUIPMENT AND POTIONS

You will start your adventure with a bare minimum
of equipment, but you may find or buy other items
during your travels. You aré armed with a sword
and are dressed in leather armour. You have a
backpack to hold your Provisions and any treasures
you may come across.

In addition, you may take one bottle of a magic
potion which will aid you on your quest. You may
choose to take a bottle of any of the following:

A Potion of Skill - restores skIL1 points

A Potion of Strength — restores STAMINA points
A Potion of Fortune — restores Luck points and
adds 1 to Initial Luck

These potions may be taken at any time during your
adventure (except when engaged in a Battle). Tak-
ing a measure of potion will restore SKILL, STAMINA
or Luck scores to their Initial level (and the Potion of
Fortune will add 1 point to your Initial Luck score
before Luck is restored).

Each bottle of potion contains enough for one mea-
sure, i.e. the characteristic may be restored once
during an adventure. Make a note on your Adven-
ture Sheet when you have used up a potion.

15
Remember also that you may only choose one of the
three potions to take on your trip, so choose wisely!

To explore the network of caves and tunnels and to
combat the terrors of the night, you are also equip-
ped with five torches. To light them you have a flint
and tinder — guard them with your life!

16
HINTS ON PLAY

There is one true way through the mysterious world
of Orb and it will take you several attempts to find it.
Make notes and draw a map as you explore — this
map will be invaluable in future adventures and
enable you to progress rapidly through to unex-
plored sections.

Not all areas contain treasure; some merely contain
traps and creatures which you will no doubt fall foul
of. You may make wrong turnings during your
quest and while you may indeed progress through
to your ultimate destination, it is by no means
certain that you will find what you are searching for.

It will be realized that entries make no sense if read
in numerical order. It is essential that you read only
the entries you are instructed to read. Reading other
entries will only cause confusion and may lessen the
excitement during play.

The one true way involves a minimum of risk and
any player, no matter how weak on initial dice rolls,
should be able to get through fairly easily.

May the luck of the gods go with you on the adven-
ture ahead!

17
STAMINA
Initial
Stamina=

EQUIPMENT GOLD
LIST
. JEWELS

PROVISIONS
REMAINING

Skill=
Stamina=

Skill=
Stamina=

Skill=
Stamina=

Skill= Skill= Skill=

Stamina=

Stamina= Stamina=

Skill= Skill=
Stamina= Stamina=

Skill=
Stamina=

Skill= Skilt= Skill=
Stamina= Stamina= Stamina=

BACKGROUND

You are regaining consciousness. Your eyes flutter
open to the sound of a songbird, trilling joyously.
You are lying on a couch of green velvet, set on the
topmost turret of a great white castle hanging in the
clouds. Rising to your feet you look around. The
songbird, whose sleek feathers are a warm bur-
nished gold, is perched on the battlements, resplen-
dent against the ocean-blue canopy of a sky in
which there is no sun.

You are clad in strange, outlandish clothes,
breeches of dark-green leather and a thickly quilled
leather jerkin. On your feet are russet-red calfskin
boots, supple and comfortable, into which the
breeches are tucked at mid-calf. A heavy sword is
belted at your side and, with a shock, you realize
that somehow you know how to use it skilfully and
with deadly force. As the songbird trills you try, in
vain, to recall memories of Earth but everything is
hazy and distant. You have been taken from the
world you know and trained in the art of sword-
play. You cannot remember even who trained you
or why, but the hilt of the sword fits your hand
snugly. Drawing it, you lunge and parry, marvel-
ling at how the sword cuts through the air faster
than the eye can follow.

The songbird seems unperturbed by your fine

20
display of swordsmanship, but you are surprised
when it cocks its head and speaks to you, its voice
fluting merrily.

‘Welcome, Champion of Fate. Do not be dis-
mayed, you are not yet in danger.’

‘Where am 1?’ you ask, feeling as if you are ina
dream.

‘Far, far from your home, I fear to say. This is the
world of Orb and you are in the Garden of the
Gods.’

‘What is Orb?’ you demand.

“You will find it most strange and full of wonder,
for it is very different from Earth. Men must share
it not just with talking creatures such as I but
with weird and fell monsters, giants, dragons and
demons. There are warlocks and sorcerers, too,
great wielders of magic, in the cities. But do not fear,
you have been chosen to be our champion, for you
are more likely to succeed than any other on Earth.
Now I must complete my task. Come, my masters
bid you join them in the chamber .below. Please
follow me.’

With that the golden songbird flutters away downa
spiral staircase. Shaking your head in confusion you
descend the stone steps into a large circular room
where two beings turn towards you. ‘Welcome,’
says one, a pale female figure enfolded in a swirling
robe of many colours above which you can only see
a perfectly smooth and hairless head. The robe
shimmers, its colours shifting as she steps towards
you, catching your mind before you realize what is

a1
happening. Looking into her face, you see an image
of yourself, fighting for your life inside a huge
temple. Then the image shifts and you see yourself
leaving a walled city, hastening alone across a deso-
late moor, only to find yourself deep in a jungle,
surrounded by devils with blue skins. Your nape
bristles as you realize that she is revealing glimpses
of your destiny. It is only when they are over that
you notice she has no eyes in her smooth pale face.

The other figure changes even as you look at him. At
one moment he is an ancient white-haired man,
heavy with knowledge, at another an infant, wise
beyond his years. The metamorphosis through
youth to age takes but a few instants, yet flows so
smoothly you cannot see the features change. His
voice is soft and ageless. ‘We have summoned you
here to the world of Orb because we wish to prevent
a fatal upset in the balance of nature. The cosmic
scales have been tipped too far and you must play a
partin righting them. Itis not for usin the Garden of
the Gods to set things right. We cannot fight him
who would bring chaos to Orb, Rather we use men
as our tools. I shall not say whether you will
succeed.’

The floor of the room upon which you are standing
is the most realistic and detailed map imaginable.
You can even see small figures tilling the fields and
walking the streets of an entire world; a world of
pinnacled castles; knights on horseback, their men-
at-arms bearing banners which stream in the wind;
and strange high-walled cities with towers and
spires, concealing the dives of assassins and thieves
amongst the splendour. The eyeless immortal steps
forward, her robe now the colour of the deep sea,
and caresses your cheek.

‘We are sending you down to the surface of Orb.
If you fall into the clutches of Death we cannot aid
you. Do not fail us!’

‘Fail in what?’ you begin to ask. But just then, to
your horror, you find yourself being drawn inexor-
ably towards a black crack in the map. The realiza-
tion that your destiny is being tampered with angers
you, and you resolve to find a way back to Earth and
your home at any cost. As the world of Orb rises up
to engulf you, the awesomeness of what is happen-
ing overwhelms you and you lose consciousness.

NOW TURN OVER

23
1

When awareness returns you look around. You are
standing in a huge vaulted chamber, deep under-
ground. In the chill air you wonder what terrible
fate may be in store for you. You are utterly alone,
without a friend in the world, and you have no idea
what fiendish horrors may exist here, so far from
home. There are no windows in the chamber, nor
natural light, only the ruddy glow of flaming torches
that are fixed to pillars soaring beyond sight. The
walls are running with damp, the air musty and
heavy with age. There are two archways at the back
of the cavern. Before you can investigate further,
the torchlight flickers, and a cool gust chills you to
the marrow; something in the unseen darkness is
causing the air to move. A light flashes briefly ahead
and an infernal howling echoes across the vast
vault. No living thing could possibly have made that
dreadful sound, you think to yourself, but then you
remember that you know nothing of the dreadful
denizens of Orb. You hear the sound of running
footsteps approaching rapidly; you cannot yet see
who or what is coming. Will you run through the
nearest archway (turn to 17), or hold your ground
and draw your sword (turn to 30)?
There is an uneasy silence in the ale cellar. Tyutchev
looks across at you and says, ‘I don’t like your face.’
Cassandra nods agreement. If you retort, ‘At least,
unlike you, I am wholesome to look upon,’ turn to
294. If you meekly reply, ‘I’m sorry, I was born that
way,’ and leave the ale cellar, turn to 305.

3
You ask the barman for a mug of ale. While he pours

you your drink, your eyes adjust to the gloom and
you survey his customers. You have never seen a
more disreputable bunch of villainous-looking cut-
throats. The barman says, ‘That will be a piece of
gold.’ You hand over the money. As you replace
your money-pouch a dozen pairs of eyes watch
closely. The only one who doesn’t watch is a
stooped old man, cleaning slops off an empty table.
Will you:

Talk to the barman? Turn to 88

Walk over to the old man? Turn to 19

Approach six surly-looking men,
who look like thieves? Turn to 280

4-5

4
The Pteranodon, mortally wounded, crashes into

the undergrowth. You struggle on; the heat is
oppressive and you are plagued by flies, which
circle between the tall straight conifers. Creepers
trail from the overhanging branches and great ferns
cover the ground. The air is alive with strange
noises, and huge dragonflies, vibrantly coloured,
hum from flower to giant flower. Suddenly, with a
report like a rifle, a tree-trunk snaps. The ground
shakes as a huge prehistoric monster charges at
you. Three long horns project from the bony cara-
pace which protects its neck. You must fight . . .

TRICERATOPS SKILL 8 STAMINA 30

After three rounds of combat you hear shrill cries of
alarm as another great beast thunders towards you.
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 40. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 25.

5
You charge at the Shieldmaiden. She coolly takes

aim and unleashes a crossbow bolt. It slams into the
shoulder of your sword-arm, crippling it with a
searing pain. Lose 1 SKILL point and 2 STAMINA
points. As you fall, the Shieldmaiden places her
sword at your throat. ‘Don’t make a move if you
wish to live,’ she says. Turn to 75.
6

The servant says, ‘Ah yes, you are expected. Please
come in.’ You follow him into the parlour. The
dining-table is laid for three. Apothecus rises to
greet you and introduces you to his friend, Dio-
dorus, a Sage who is an expert on travel between the
planes of existence. He tells you that there are
portals or gates, allowing travel between Orb and
other worlds. He suspects that you may have been
brought from Earth to Orb by means of such a
portal. ‘When you recover the Talisman,’ he says,
‘you must leave Greyguilds and walk south-east
until you come to the Great Plateau. Mount Star-
reach, the tallest mountain on the plateau, has, atits
summit, one of these portals, through which you
must pass if you wish to return to Earth.’

‘And now to more immediate matters,’ says
Apothecus. ‘You can leave the city by the postern
gate in the cemetery. If you get into serious trouble
you may be able to call on the All-Mother for aid. To
do so cry, “All-Mother, nature herself, preserve
me.”’ He makes you repeat the words and you
commit them to memory; note them on your
Adventure Sheet. He explains that the All-Mother is
the Fountain of all Life, the opposite of Death. She
may be prepared to help you, but only once, at the
time of your greatest need. ‘However, remember
this: no deity can intervene in another's temple.’
You thank them both and turn in early after the
sumptuous meal of peacock basted in Spirits of Ra,
and other exotic dishes. You wake up refreshed —
7

gain 4 STAMINA points. You bid Apothecus fare-
well, thanking him for all his help and hoping that
you won't let him down. You set out to find the
Thieves’ Guild. Turn to 64.

You light a torch and enter the cavern, which
stretches away into blackness. You scramble across
the cavern floor until you see a small smooth-walled
tunnel branching off from the main tunnel. The
strong smell of sulphur seems to pervade both. Wilt
you walk down the wide and rocky main tunnel
(turn to 378), or investigate the narrow tunnel (turn

to 48)?
You put several miles between yourself and
Greyguilds and sleep the night in a hayrick. You
awake refreshed. Gain 2 STAMINA points. Which
direction will you take towards the plateau? You
could take the direct route, south-east, across rough
moorland; continue along the old trade road, due
south for a while and then strike east; or head east
across the heath to the hills before turning south.

South-east Turn to 287
South, then east Turn to 300
East, then south Turn to313,
9-10

9
You lie still, enfolded in the Roc’s talons, as it wings

its ponderous way to the purple mountains. Soon
you are spiralling up the mountainside to the Roc’s
eyrie. The Roc lets you fall on to the feather-soft nest
and prepares to dismember you before feeding you
to its two enormous chicks. You must fight the Roc.
Each time you make a successful attack, roll one die.
If you throw a1 turn to 55.

ROC SKILL 10 STAMINA 16
If you win, turn to 84.

10

You attack the Dragon! ‘I shall rend you limb from
limb,’ it roars. The great claws swipe at youas it tries
to crush your head in its enormous jaws.

RED DRAGON SKILL 12 STAMINA 20

If you reduce the Dragon’s sraMINa to 5 or less,
turn to 29.
iu

il

You stop at the bar and are about to ask the barman
what there is to drink, when you hear yourself
saying, ‘You fat pig, pour me a drink before the
sight of your squalid pus-ridden face makes me
vomit.’ The barman stiffens, astonished and in-
censed. He gives a strangled cry of rage, grabs his
club and hurdles the bar. You step back, drawing
your sword. Your eyes have adjusted to the gloom
and you notice that some of his customers are rising
to their feet. They are the most disreputable bunch
of villainous-looking cut-throats you have ever
seen; one has a scar running from his ear to his chin.
You must fight the barman and one other.

SKILL STAMINA
BARMAN 7 8
First CUT-THROAT 8 9

If you reduce the barman’s sTAMINA to 4 or less he
scuttles back behind the bar. If you can then reduce
12

the First Cut-throat’s staMINa to 5 or less, Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 200. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 181.

12
Your first blow is fatal. Blood spurts from a gaping
wound and the old man falls to the ground. You
step back as he turns once more into his normal
form, that of a huge Red Dragon. The Guardian
Dragon of the portals is dead. You step towards the
silver shimmering portal. Turn to 400.

33

13
A woman wearing chainmail and carrying a loaded
crossbow bursts into the torchlight ahead of you.
Seeing you, she immediately points the bow in your
direction. Three men, panting heavily, appear be-
hind her. The first, a tall and handsome man, is
dressed in shining silver armour and the blade of his
two-handed sword glows with a faint white
radiance. The next is dressed in a flowing robe of
cloth of gold and wears a smiling golden mask. He
carries an ivory staff. The lastis a thick-set man with
a white surcoat over chainmail. A red cross adorns
his breast and a spiked mace hangs at his side. They
stop. Once again you hear a wailing, louder than
before. ‘They are almost upon us,’ cries the man
with the glittering sword. The Shieldmaiden calls to
you, ‘Who are you and what are you doing here in
the Rift, the spawning place of all evil?’ Will you:

Say you have come from

another world? Turn to 247
Say that you are on a quest

against evil? Turn to 60
Try to play for time? Turn to 75

Attack the Shieldmaiden? Turn to5
14-15

14

You camp for the night, but some large black flies,
which had just seemed a nuisance, are now objects
of fear, since their eggs have hatched and you are
food for their larvae. You get no rest, and don’t
regain any STAMINA as a result. At dawn you
plunge into an algae-covered pool and the larvae fall
from you. Feeling better you begin the march to-
wards the foothills of Mount Star-reach. Soon you
are elimbing the mountain itself, grasping at the
stunted bushes which grow on its slopes. You
notice that the air is becoming thinner, and you are
short of breath when you reach a wide cave mouth,
which smells faintly of sulphur. Intrigued, you de-
cide to enter the cave. Turn to 7.

15
The taproom of the inn is empty. You ask for a hot
meal and a room for the night. The innkeeper tells
you that this will cost you three pieces of gold, but
says that he is short-handed and that if you will do
the washing-up he will let you stay for nothing. The
choice is yours. You have a delicious meal of roast
hippogriff in cream sauce. After your meal you
sleep like a log and wake up feeling refreshed. Gain
4 STAMINA points. You set out in search of the
Thieves’ Guild. Turn to 64.
16

16

The doors open easily. It seems the magic has faded
now that Hawkana is truly dead. The thieves have
been spying on you through the keyhole. Scarface
says, ‘The door was locked and we couldn’t get in.’
He leads the way back up to the skylight. If you still
have Hawkana’s ring, you feel it grow cold and see
that it has tarnished to a dull grey metal. Its magic
only works within the Inner Sanctum. Suddenly,
the alarm bell tolls loudly. As you reach the top
landing, a group of warrior-women appears on the
stairs behind you in hot pursuit. You all run for the
rope hanging from the skylight. As you reach it, you
sense a movement at your side and dodge the
murderous thrust of Bloodheart’s dagger just in
time. Before he can strike again, the warrior-women
let loose a volley of crossbow bolts. Bloodheart’s
body is peppered with quarrels, shielding you as
you climb the rope. Leaving the stricken Bloodheart
to his fate, the remaining thieves jump agilely from
the temple roof to the roof of a nearby house. You
will have to jump, too. Roll two dice. If the total is
less than or equal to your SKILL score, turn to 163. If
it is greater than your SKILL score, turn to 56.

47-19

17
As you dash towards the forbidding blackness of
the archway, you hear a click followed by a rum-
bling sound ahead. The floor beneath your feet
begins to tremble. Do you want to hurl yourself
through the archway, into the darkness (turn to 41),
or stop your headlong flight (turn to 21)?

18
The Roc appears not to notice your futile attack and
you are swept upas the Roc begins to climb towards
the purple mountains. You are too high to risk
struggling. Turn to 9.

19
The toothless old man mutters at you. He tells you
that this ale cellar is a dangerous place. Having
given his warning, he shuffles fearfully away. Will
you go back to the bar (turn to 88), or go over to the
table where six surly-looking men are sitting (turn
to 280)?

20-21

20
At last the steep cliffs surrounding the plateau
tower above you. Steps have been cut into the face
of the reddish rock, which you begin to climb. By
midday your legs ache abominably and you are glad
to reach a ledge where you are welcomed by a cool
fine spray rising from a waterfall. It cascades down
the side of the plateau, casting small rainbows in the
sun, and the thunderous roar is almost deafening.
Will you climb on up the steps (turn to 328), or
examine the waterfall (turn to 33)?

21

You stop just in time — a slab of smooth rock slams
down from above with a crash that reverberates
around the cavern. It blocks the arch completely.
The other one is similarly sealed. Realizing that you
have no choice, you turn to face the oncoming
footsteps and draw your sword. Turn to 13.
You walk down the winding tunnel for some time.
It bends gently to the left and downwards and
eventually opens out into the large cavern. The
dragon lies before you, but this time you are behind
it. A few of its old scales lie littered around it. Will
you: :

Thrust your spear, if you have one,

into its scaly back? Turn to 285
Try to grab some scales? Turn to 269
Try to grab some of the treasure? Turn to 38
Leave the cavern? Turn to 369

23

She strikes you down, before helping you to your
feet. You walk together into the Valley of Death,
where your spirit will wander alone until the end of
time.

24
You go down the steps and emerge into a long low

cellar, set-with tables and stools. The only light part
is the bar, behind which stands the bulky proprietor
of the inn. Turn to 3.
25-26

25

As you step back to lunge again at the wild monster,
you see a huge carnivore appear behind it. This
must be what the Triceratops was running from.
Now it shuffles round to face the TYRANNO-
SAURUS, which is as tall as a house, with massive
jaws. A gargantuan battle ensues. Finally the torn
and bleeding Triceratops is knocked on to its side.
The end is swift, as the foot-long incisors of the
Tyrannosaurus bury themselves in the throat of the
fallen monster. The victorious creature swivels its
glassy eye to face you and raises its head. Seeing
new prey it leaps towards you to snap you up. You
must fight.

TYRANNOSAURUS | sxkILL11 = STAMINA 18

If you win turn to 14.

With a mighty blow, your sword cuts through one
of the Willow’s branches and some sap from the tree
falls on to your arm. The Willow gives a low moan,
stops attacking and pulls its branches back from
you. Will you plunge your arm into the pool (turn to
161), or beat a hasty retreat (turn to 39)?
27-28

27
The ‘Roc misses you and soars up into the sky.
Luckily, its attention is distracted by larger prey.
The Roc swoops again, with a roar of wind, and
carries off a wild horse. Grateful for your luck you
hasten on towards the plateau. Turn to 20.

You turn down Carriage Street and see the sign of
an inn, the Silver Trinket. It is next to a large stable
and work-house. It seems a much more pleasant
place than the Red Dragon Inn and, as it is growing
late, you decide to goin. Turn to 15.
29-30

. 29

Suddenly, your weapon is flailing at air. The Dra-
gon has changed into an old man, with long white
hair, wearing a white robe. ‘Spare me, I beg you,’ he
implores, in a thin reedy voice. ‘At last you have
lifted the curse that was upon me. Only a strong
warrior like yourself could have done it. When I
came through the portal, many centuries ago, | was
doomed to stay in the form of a dragon until I was
beaten in combat. Now that ] am myself again I can
return to my world. Will you step through the portal
with me?’ Will you agree and walk with him into the
silver shimmering portal (turn to 77), or attack him
(turn to 12)?

30

The footsteps are coming closer; suddenly, a sound
like a clap of thunder reverberates around the cham-
ber. You look round and see that both the archways
have been sealed by huge stone blocks. You are
trapped. Turn to 13.

31-32

31 .
The doors are still magically sealed shut. You cannot
force them open. You turn to see that Hawkana has
risen to her feet and taken up her sword again. Her
eyes are filled with malice. ‘You cannot kill me. This
time I will carve out your spleen.’ She is slower than
before but you must fight her again.

HAWKANA SKILL 9 STAMINA 6
If you win, turn to 54.

32
The brass tiger has a mischievous grin. You hang it

round your neck, hoping it will bring luck or protec-
tion. Turn to 156.

33-34

33
You approach the waterfall and within moments are

soaked through. Looking closer, you see a dry space
behind it, under the jutting cliff-face. When you
jump through, a cave entrance is revealed. Will you
enter the cave (turn to 42), or leave and continue up
the steps (turn to 328)?

34
Deftly you dodge the flailing caw and move in to

the attack. Do you have a spear? If you do, turn to
51. If not, turn to 10.
35-36

35
You make some unintelligible signs and grunts,

pointing to your mouth and ears. For a moment
some of them think that you are casting a spell and
draw their swords, but soon you hear one of them
saying, ‘A deaf warrior — well, there’s a turn-up for
the scrolls!’ The Captain motions you to mount
behind one of the younger women, Elvira, who
does not seem pleased at having to share her horse
with. you. You ride for some time and after a while
the women resume their normal conversation. You
realize they are members of the Watch, or law-
enforcers from Greyguilds-on-the-Moor. You also
realize that there is rivalry between them and the
Priestesses of the All-Mother in that city. It appears
that the leniency of the Priestesses has annoyed
them. Turn to 197.

36
You struggle to overcome the drowsiness and the
spell is broken. Looking up you can see two large
green eyes staring at you from the trunk of the
willow. Before you can step back you are attacked
by the branches of the enraged tree. You must fight
the WILLOW WEIRD.

WILLOW WEIRD SKILL 8 STAMINA 20
If you make four successful attacks, turn to 26.
37-38

37
The ROC’s eyesight is as sharp as any eagle’s. You

are plucked from the ground like a harvest-mouse.
The Roc begins to climb towards the purple moun-
tains and away from the plateau. You are soon too
high to risk struggling. Turn to 9.

You make a grab for a jewel-encrusted helmet but
trip, in your haste, over a golden chest full of black
pearls. The Dragon hears you, turns and breathes
on you as you are struggling to your feet. Rolling
jets of flame consume you and you are charred to a
cinder. Turn to 43.
39-40

39
You wend your way along the bank of the river that

runs west from the spring and leave the ferns
behind. The terrain has become a little more open
now. Looking back, your heart quickens as you
catch sight of one of the Dark Elves sniffing at your
trail. He moves with a lithe swiftness which would
seem graceful, if it wasn’t for his spiked black
armour, and deadly expression. While you are
watching, he stands upand points in your direction;
they are not far behind. You must decide quickly.
Will you:

Run along the river bank? Turn to 359
Plunge into the river and
run along for some distance
before scrambling up the
bank? Turn to 253,
Hide in a clump of bushes? Turn to 307
40

As you step back to lunge again at the wild monster
you see a huge carnivore appear behind it. This
must be what the Triceratops was running from.
Now it shuffles round to face the TYRANNO-
SAURUS and a gargantuan battle ensues. Finally, —
the torn and bleeding Triceratops thrusts forward,
goring the Tyrannosaurus, which then crashes to
the ground, fatally wounded. The Triceratops limps
away and, breathing a sigh of relief, you move on
towards the mountain. Turn to 14.
41-42

41
Before you can charge through the archway a slab of
smooth rock slams down from above, with a sound
like a clap of thunder that reverberates around the
cavern. It blocks the archway completely. Unfortu-
nately you cannot stop in mid-leap; you crash sick-
eningly into the stone with bone-jarring force. Lose
2 STAMINA points. Feeling somewhat groggy, you
pick yourself up and realize that the other archway
is similarly sealed. Seeing you have no option you
turn to face the oncoming footsteps and draw your
sword. Turn to 13.

You manage to light a damp torch, which reveals a
door at the back of the cave. The door is made of a
black wood, inlaid with alabaster. A raised frieze in
the centre panel depicts a red dragon, a great flame
shooting from its jaws, and an ivory spear. The door
creaks as you open it gingerly. You step into a
passage. The musty air reeks of decay. You come to
a place where four tunnels cross. Will you:

Advance down the tunnel ahead? Turn to 71
Take the left-hand tunnel? Turn to 53
Take the right-hand tunnel? Turn to 80
43

43
Your spirit floats gently towards the Valley of

Death. The featureless, wind-blasted plain stretches
away endlessly, beyond the horizon. The souls of
the dead wander there aimlessly, in solitude. Just as
you approach the edge of the valley, an ethereal
wind gets up and your soul is wafted away. Soon
you feel yourself in the presence of the two who
summoned you to this fantastic world of magic. The
eyeless being in robes of shifting hues says, ‘All is
not yet lost.’ You understand the words without
hearing them. ‘If your spirit is willing we will
reunite it with your body and turn back the wheels
of time.’ The other being offers you a choice: ‘If you
wish it, I will send you back in time. You will be
leaving Greyguilds.’ Do you wish to go back in time
to attempt the quest again? If you do, the being lays
a hand on your shoulder. They disappear. You are
alive again. You have 15 STAMINA points and all of
the equipment you carried with you when you died,
apart from the following, if you had picked them up:
the Gum of an Amber Pine, the Feather of a Roc, the
Spear, or the Scales of a Dragon. Cross these off
your Adventure Sheet. You find yourself outside
the city of Greyguilds. Turn to 8.
44-45

4
Hawkana collapses to the floor, lifeless. You walk to

the altar and take the Talisman of Death. It is cold
and heavy. At last you have regained it. Gain 1 LUCK
point. You look back at Hawkana and your scalp
crawls. Her wounds are healing. Even as you watch
she tries to raise herself from the pool of blood in
which she lies. Will you go back to Hawkana (turn to
54), or run to the double doors (turn to 31)?

45
You fight Harg. Your blows cause black blood to

flow, but the wounds close up as fast as you can
inflict them. Harg’s hammer catches you on the
shoulder — lose 2 STAMINA points. At this Thaum
snaps his fingers and Harg, an illusion after all,
disappears. Turn to 171. :
46-47

46

You raise the Talisman above your head. It glows as
you shout: ‘Begone! Trouble me no more!’ Enthral-
led, they strain towards it, but your words have an
immediate effect. One of them cries, ‘Others will
take it from you and we Faceless Ones will return as
lords under the reign of our God, Death.’ His words
fade as they are swallowed by the darkness. The
Talisman feels lighter and its glow has dimmed. You
sléep deeply, and gain 2 STAMINA points. The next
day you set off again, feeling more hopeful now that
you have banished the minions of Death. The
plateau looms before you. Turn to 20.

47
The angry young man turns to you, a puzzled

expression on his face. He thanks you and says, ‘I
don’t know why we are quarrelling really.’ He takes
the charm from you and you walk on. Fortune will
smile on you for being so honest (gain 1 Luck
point). Soon afterwards you hear the fight breaking
out again. ‘You’re always making trouble,’ shouts
the other young man. You leave them to it. Turn to
156.

48-49

48

You walk down the winding tunnel for some time,
until it opens out into a large cavern. In front of you
is the ridged back of an immense Dragon. It is about
eighteen metres long and is covered in thick red
scales. Its long tail is curled round a vast hoard of
treasure ~ gems, gold, goblets and vases — which lies
higgledy-piggledy beneath its bulk. A few of its old
scales are littered around it. Will you:

Thrust your spear, if you have

one, into its scaly back? Turn to 285
Try to grab some of its scales? Turn to 269
Try to grab some of the
Dragon’s treasure? Turn to 38
Leave the cavern? Turn to 369
49

You walk through the front door, which is glisten-
ing with frost. A trail of frost leads from the door toa
large pentacle chalked on the floor. Sand is strewn
where the frost crosses the edge of the pentacle. On
a table lie various strange pieces of equipment. On
the floor next to it lies an Amulet, made from the tip
of a Unicorn’s Horn, with strange runes engraved
on it. You may take it if you wish. There appears to
be nothing else of any use to you, so you leave. Turn
to 28.
50-51

50

Hawkana draws her sword and advances on you,
snarling with tigerish ferocity. You must fight the
High Priestess.

HAWKANA SKILL-12 STAMINA 14
If you win, go to 44.

51

You attack the dragon. ‘I shall rend you limb from
limb,’ itroars. The great claws swipe at you as it tries
to crush your head in its enormous jaws. You dodge
to one side as it leaps at you and thrust your spear at
its soft underbelly.

RED DRAGON SKILL 12 STAMINA 20

Each time you make a successful attack deduct 5
STAMINA points from the Dragon's total, as the
magical spear seems to bite deep into its flesh. If you
reduce the Dragon’s STAMINA to 5 or less, turn to

29.
52

52
Cross one of your Provisions off your Adventure
Sheet. Crouching on one knee, you toss the dried
meat to the wolf, speaking in soothing tones as you
do so. The wolf accepts your gift. Then a green-
robed figure steps into the clearing. He has an oak
staff in one hand and a silver sickle in the other. A
crown of mistletoe rests on his head. He smiles at
you and says, ‘My name is Wodeman. I am the
Guardian Druid of this Sacred Grove. My friend,
Snowmane, thanks you for the gift of food. Such
gentle generosity deserves reward. The Blessing of
the Druids will go with you. May fortune smile on
you.” You gain 1 Luck point for the Druid’s Bless-
ing. ‘You look weary,’ he says. ‘Here, have this.’ He
takes a golden apple from his robes and hands it to
you. Note it down on your Adventure Sheet - such
apples are wonderfully refreshing and will restore
up to 4 STAMINA points when you eat one. You
thank him, and knowing you must continue on
your quest, reluctantly leave the idyllic peace of the
Sacred Grove. Turn to 159.

~—

53-55

53
You take the left-hand tunnel, which soon turns to

the right, and leads into a bare stone room with a
small rectangular pillar in the middle. The tunnel
continues on the other side of the room. Will you:

Examine the pillar? Turn to 136
Go straight through to the tunnel

opposite? Turn to 89
Return to where the tunnels

crossed and choose again? Turn to 42

54
You notice that a ring on Hawkana’s finger is glow-

ing with a green light as her wounds close up.
Quickly you take it off before she comes fully back to
life. You place it on your own finger. It is a Ring of
Regeneration; regain 6 STAMINA points. Will you
now try to leave through the double doors (turn to
16), or search the Inner Sanctum (turn to 137)?

55
You manage to drive your sword into one of the

Roc’s huge eyes. It screeches in pain and flies away
from the eyrie. You seize your chance to escape.
Turn to 84.
56-57

56

You fly through the air, but not far enough. You
slam into the side of the building with bone-
shattering force and plummet to the street below.
Luck has not deserted you completely, for you land
ina stinking pile of refuse, which breaks your fall a
little. Lose 3 sraMrNa points. If you are still alive,
you drag yourself off down an alleyway which leads
towards the safe house. Near the safe house you
pause to rest before leaving the city. Turn to 235.

57
You take a side-street which leads towards the

Street of Seven Sins and are almost pushed aside by
a couple of students in blue togas. They are quarrel-
ling and begin fighting in front of you. It seems
one of them disagrees violently with something the
other has said. As they tussle, you notice that the
angry young man has dropped a small brass tiger
charm. Will you:

Interrupt the quarrel and give the

charm back? Turn to 47
Ignore them and goon your way? = Turn to 156
Pick up the charm? Turn to 32
58-59

58

You hurl yourself at the rolling shield and just
manage to grasp its rim. You cover yourself with it
as you lie there. The dragon breathes on you again
and one of your legs, left unshielded, is badly
burned. Lose 4 sTaMINa points. If youare still alive,
you get up and attack once more. If you have a
spear, turn to 51. If you have not, turn to10. .

. 59
After that display of power, you hurriedly use your

Scroll of Agonizing Doom. Hawkana draws her
sword and advances on you, snarling with tigerish
ferocity. But the spell works and a crackling electric-
blue aura surrounds her. She throws back her head
and howls with agony. She is very badly hurt and
staggers, but then exerts her will and recovers. You
must fight the High Priestess.

HAWKANA SKILL 12 STAMINA 6
If you win, turn to 44.

60-61

60

‘Alone?’ asks the Shieldmaiden in disbelief. The
man in gold turns to the Priest. ‘Is it true?’ he asks.
Knowing your story to be a lie you wait anxiously
while the Priest casts a spell. ‘It is a lie,’ says the
Priest. The Shieldmaiden turns to you accusingly.
‘Why are you lying to us? [ ask you again, who are
you and what are you doing here?’ Will you tell
them the truth (turn to 70), or ask them what busi-
ness it is of theirs (turn to 75)?

61

You have banished the Ice Demon to the plane from
which it came, through defeating it in combat. The
shards of broken glass crunch underfoot. Will you
enter the house it came from (turn to 49), or con-
tinue down Cobbler’s Walk (turn to 28)?

62-63

62

With a clatter of armour the Death-knight folds at
the knees and vanishes. A vision of the Paladin
appears. ‘Well done. You are a valiant warrior,
worthy of the quest. Here, take my Holy Sword: it
will aid you, for I no longer can.’ He hands you his
glittering sword and the vision fades. The sword
feels real enough and its glow lights up the stable.
Your wounds are healed magically as you touch it
(regain up to 6 sTAMINA points) — a gift from the
Paladin. You may add 1 to your sKILL when using
the Holy Sword. Turn to 121.

‘ 63
You run as fast you can along the rocky ground.
Your lungs are burning with the effort. As you
approach the hills, you look back and see that both
groups are now roughly the same distance behind
you. The Elves coming from the north are in a tight
pack, while the Orcs to the south are beginning to
string out. Will you:

Head north to meet the Elves? Turn to 214
Climb a hill to the south, to face the
Orcs? Turn to 282

Run on? Turn to 227
64

As you set off, you see a small group of people
clustered around a man wearing a flowing grey
cloak and one dangling gold ear-ring. He is making
huge bunches of flowers appear and disappear to
cries of delight and amusement from the crowd.
Will you:

Try to find a way into the Thieves’

Guild? Turn to 83
Try to regain the Talisman on your
own? Turn to 383

Stay and watch the magic? Turn to 106
65

65
Eventually, the hills give way to a desolate grey

moor stretching out to the west. After half an hour
or so, you see a cloud of dust ahead. You can soon
make out a group of twenty horsemen. They wheel
their steeds towards you and the drumming of
hoofs carries to you over the breeze. As they get
nearer, you can see that this is a band of warrior-
women, clad in chainmail and studded leather
armour. Their faces look grim and unwelcoming as
they wheel around you, forming a closed circle.
Their Captain spurs her horse forward and tersely
demands what you are doing out here, alone on the
edge of the moor. Will you:

Tell them about your quest? Turn to 101
Say that you are from another

world? Turn to 73
Tell them that you are the last

survivor of an ambushed

caravan? Turn to 322
Pretend that you are deaf and

dumb? Turn to 35

Demand they escort you to
Greyguilds-on-the-Moor? Turn to 95

66

66
‘Here's your share of the loot, you insolent dog’,
shouts the biggest thug, attempting to bury his
sword in your stomach. You jump aside and meet
the attack of the two bruisers. As you do so, the
weaselly thief mercilessly kills the jeweller. You
must fight both thieves.

SKILL STAMINA
First THIEF 6 7
Second THIEF 5 6

If you kill the first thief, turn to 320.

67
The rolling shield eludes your grasp. The Dragon
chuckles and exhales a mighty breath. As the air
rushes from its cavernous lungs, it ignites. You are
consumed by rolling jets of flame and charred to a
cinder. Turn to 43.

68

You runacross the rough ground towards the Ores,
drawing your sword. Unfortunately, as you close
with them their Captain, a huge and hulking Orc
with yellowed tusks, crashes into you. You grab
him but lose your balance and topple over the edge
of the chasm. You fall for what seems like an eter-
nity. At least you won't die alone.
69

69
You climb on, gasping for breath in the thin air. At

last you reach the flat summit. The panorama is
incredible. The whole plateau lies below you like a
table, a collage of tropical forests, mountains and
huge lakes, which glisten in the sun. Thirty metres
away is a rectangle of shimmering silver, hanging in
the air, unsupported. You realize that this is the
portal. As you step towards it you hear the rushing
of wind. Looking up you see the ancient Red Dra-
gon coming in to land beside the portal. Outside its
lair the Dragon is even more impressive and fear-
some: warmth and power seem to radiate from its
body. ‘Iam bound by the Gods to guard the portal,’
it says in its rich, mellow voice. Will you:

Run to attack the Dragon? Turn to 382
Tell him that Death threatens Turn to 358
the world?

Threaten it? Turn to 275

70-71

70
Her eyebrows rise in surprise. All four of them look
at you doubtfully. The Priest pauses, then says, ‘Itis
the truth and spoken from a true heart.’ The Shield-
maiden lowers the bow and turns to guard the
entrance of the cavern.

‘What are we to do? The exits are blocked and I
only have enough power to teleport one of us out
now,’ asks the man in gold.

The man with the glittering sword, a Paladin,
says gravely, ‘Then we will die together, Wizard,
and they will pay dearly.’

‘But what of the Talisman?’ asks the Priest.
‘Perhaps this warrior has been sent by the gods to
continue the quest? Sensing the goodness in these
people you wait to hear how you can aid them. Turn
to 100.

71
You walk down the tunnel which soon leads into a

circular room of bare stone. In the centre stands a
small round pillar. The tunnel continues on the
other side of the room. Will you:

Examine the pillar? Turn to 184
Go straight through to the tunnel
opposite? Turn to 204

Return to where the tunnels
crossed and choose again? Turn to 42
72-73

72
A deep dry moat and spiked palisade surround
several elegant wattle-and-clay buildings. You are
led through the village to what must be the Head-
hog’s dwelling: a two-storeyed building, part of
which is built out of crumbling green stone. A huge
mud wallow lies nearby. The Headhog sits on a
carved stone throne, his muscles rippling under his
blue-black skin. He wears a red robe fastened at his
thick neck with a necklace of amber. He introduces
himself as the lord of the plateau and you are
pleased to discover that you can understand his
guttural language quite easily. He seems at ease
and, thanking .you for the ruby, asks if there is
anything you wish to know about the plateau. You
ask him about the portals of Mount Star-reach. Turn
to 110.

73
The Captain’s brow furrows as you tell your story.
There is some muttering from her companions,
which she silences with a quick gesture. ‘We must
take you to Hawkana, in Greyguilds. She will want
to speak with you. Climb up behind Elvira here, and
give me your sword.’ She points to one of the
younger women. Will you hand over your sword
and get on the horse (turn to 155), or refuse, saying
that you would rather make your own way (turn to

142)?
74-75

7
You stumble off through the darkness, looking for

somewhere safer to rest. At last you see an empty
stable. You bed down in the straw. Turn to 1.

75
‘We have no time to dally with the likes of you,’ says

the man in gold. Turning to his companions, he
continues. ‘What are we to do? The exits are blocked
and I have only enough power to teleport one of us
out now.’

The man with the glittering sword, a Paladin,
says gravely, ‘Then we will die together, Wizard,
and they will pay dearly.”

‘But what of the Talisman? asks the Priest.
‘Perhaps we can use this warrior to continue the
quest.’ He steps forward and, before you can act,
casts a spell. You feel a trance coming over you - the
man has hypnotized you — and you tell them every-
thing. Lose 1 Luck point. Turn to 114.

78-77
76

Hawkana draws her sword and advances on
you, snarling with tigerish ferocity. You have just
enough time to take out the Vial of Vapours of
Speed and inhale. There seems to be no effect — the
alchemist has sold you fresh air! With the speed of a
cobra Hawkana is upon you and her sword pierces
your arm as you drop the empty vial. Lose 2 sram-
INA points. If you are still alive you must fight the
High Priestess.

HAWKANA SKILL 12 STAMINA 14
If you win, go to 44.

You both walk towards the portal. Suddenly the old
man grasps you round the chest. Before you know
what is happening he reverts to his normal form,
that of a Red Dragon. You are held tightly in his
powerful claws. ‘You foolish man-thing, never trust
a dragon.’ So saying, he bites off your head and
tosses your corpse down the mountainside. Turn to

43-
78-79

78
After a short delay, you are taken into a large office.

Inside isa tall, striking, raven-haired woman, dress-
ed in a long black cloak which parts to reveal the
polished hilt of a longsword. Her bearing suggests
great personal power. She stands and greets you. ‘I
am Hawkana, High Priestess of the temple of Fell-
Kyrinla and Marshal of the Watch. You have been
telling some unusual stories.’ She nods and the
guards begin to search you. You try to resist but are
held powerless. The Talisman is ripped from its
place of concealment and handed to Hawkana. She
recognizes it immediately, and she laughs with
rapturous delight. She turns away and says, ‘I am
going to the temple. Throw this fool out into the
street.’ You are hustled out and the door of the
watch-house slams shut behind you. You have lost
the Talisman! What will you do next:

Go back down Guard Street to

Store Street? Turn to 357
Turn down Smith Street? Turn to 303,
Walk down the Street of Seven

Sins? Turn to 264

79

The shield is wrenched from your grasp. Realizing
that without it you have no chance, you make a
desperate dive for it as it rolls across the rocks. Test
your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 58. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 67.
80-81

80
You take the right-hand tunnel which soon turns
left. You come out into a bare stone room with a
small square pillar in the centre. The tunnel con-
tinues on the other side of the room. Will you:

Examine the pillar? Turn to 302
Go straight through to the tunnel
opposite? Turn to 260
Return to where the tunnels
crossed and choose again? Turn to 42
81

‘Lies,’ it hisses, and strikes you with its daw before
you can move. A chill numbness spreads from the
wound and you feel as if your life-blood is being
drained away. Lose 1 SKILL and 2 STAMINA points.
Now you must fight the MINION OF DEATH.
Each time it strikes you, you lose 1 SKILL point as
well as the normal sTAMINA loss.

MINION
OF DEATH SKILL 7 STAMINA 7

If you win, turn to 175.

82-84

82

Drawing back your arm you throw the heavy spear,
Dragonsbane, with all your might. Unfortunately,
it glances off the heavily armoured scales of the
Dragon’s back. The Dragon awakes and its yellow
slitted eyes hold yours. ‘Who are you?’ it asks. Fear
grips you. You stutter a reply as the Dragon draws a
deep breath. Turn to 146.

83
Have you been told about the storm-drain? If you
have, turn to 183. If not, turn to 149.

You take the smallest feather you can find as a
memento of your monumental battle and hurry
down the steep mountainside. You reach the bot-
tom of the mountain some hours later and set off
across the wilderness once more, towards the
plateau which looms ahead. You spend the night in
a copse of rowan trees and you wake feeling ready
to scale the plateau. Add 2 stamina points and
turn to 20.
85
Turning down Silver Street, you are startled by
what sounds like men’s voices, whispering near by.
You soon realize that a trick of the wind is carrying
their words to you through a broken piece of pipe,
which connects a ramshackle house to an open
drain. There are three of them and it seems that they
are planning to rob the jeweller’s, which you can
plainly see on the bend of Silver Street. There is a
shabby staircase leading up to the house, and you
creep towards it. Will you:

Go up the staircase? Turn to 245
Walk quickly to the jeweller’s? Turn to 278
Ignore this and turn into Store

Street? Turn to 243
86

86

You straddle the Griffin’s back. It leaps into the air
and takes flight towards the plateau. It flies strong-
ly, higher and higher. The rush of the wind and the
sensation of flight is exhilarating. After a few hours
the plateau gives way to a thick prehistoric rain
forest. Suddenly the Griffin caws a warning. A giant
flying reptile is diving to the attack. It crashes into
the Griffin, forcing you to lose your grip. You drop
some twelve metres but, luckily, a giant fern breaks
your fall. You are up to your waist in a pool of water
which has collected in the centre of the fern’s giant
fronds. The flying reptile, a Pteranodon, leaves the
Griffin and flies,towards you. You must fight it.

PTERANODON SKILL 7 STAMINA 15

If you win turn to 4.

87-88

87
You touch the Amulet as Hawkana draws her sword
and advances, snarling with tigerish ferocity. Itis an
Amulet of Strength against Evil and it increases
your SKILL by 2 points, in this battle only. With the
speed of a cobra Hawkana is upon you. You must
fight the High Priestess.

HAWKANA SKILL 12 STAMINA 14
If you win, go to 44.

88
The barman says, ‘You're not like my usual cus-
tomers. A rough lot comes in here, most days.
These fellows don’t rely on charity for a crust, you
know.’ Will you try to make friends and ask him
how he keeps order (turn to 119), or ask him how
they get their money (turn to 102)?

89-90
89

You walk down the tunnel which turns right again.
As you round the corner you hear an ominous
sound from the room you have just left. You dart
back to see the room filling with sand, and a slab of
rock coming down over the entrance. It slams to the
floor with a crash and then all is quiet. You can only
go on. Turn to 120.

go
He orders you to leave the village, never to return.
He directs you north towards an old temple to Nil,
the God who gave rise to the awful progeny known
as the Sons of Nil, or Sons of the Void. You thank
him and hurriedly leave the village. As soon as you
have left it some way behind you, turn back towards
Mount Star-reach. Turn to 14.
gt

91
You fall into deep slumber and then begin to dream.
The Paladin crusader you saw in the Rift appears to
you and seems to be giving advice. The shimmering
that once limned his sword now surrounds him like
a halo. He urges you to enlist the help of the
Thieves’ Guild, ‘though it grieves me to suggest you
should have dealings with such people. You may
find them in the Red Dragon Inn. They may help
you to recover the Talisman from Fell-Kyrinla’s
temple, where it now lies.’ Suddenly the dream
seems even more real and the Paladin is shouting,
‘Awake, awake! You are in grave danger.’ You
wake; everything is silent. By the light of the moon
you see tendrils of mist curling round the door-
jamb. The door crashes open. A pall of mist spills
into the stable and a warrior clad in full plate
armour, as black as night, and wielding a cruelly
spiked mace steps forward. He raises his visor. You
can see nothing inside the helmet. Your gaze is
held. Now it seems you are looking upon the fires of
hell. You are filled with despair as the black mace is
raised to crush you. You must fight the DEATH-
KNIGHT.

DEATH-KNIGHT SKILL 10 STAMINA 15

If your STAMINA is reduced to 6 or below, turn to
193. If you win turn to 62.
92-94

g2
“Well if you won’t trust me you must go your own
way,’ he says brusquely. ‘If you have lost something
and wish to regain it you should contact the
Thieves’ Guild. That type often frequents the Red
Dragon Inn, on the Street of Seven Sins.’ You thank
him and gather up your belongings. As you leave he
calls after you, ‘And don’t come back, you'll only
bring trouble.’ You go on your way wondering
whether you have made a mistake: could he have
helped you? You check your belongings and to your
surprise find a pouch you have never seen before,
containing five gold pieces. Will you go to the Red
Dragon Inn (turn to 57), or head for the temple to
Fell-Kyrinla (turn to 221)?

93
The wind whips under your shield and you only

just manage to keep your grip on it. You run to
attack before the Dragon can cast any more spells.
Turn to 382.

94
You have subdued the Griffin, which crouches on

the ground before you. You are surprised to hear it
speak. ‘Spare me, and | will bear you whither you
will.’ Will you tell it to carry you to the plateau (turn
to 86), or leave it and head south-east, away from
the hills (turn to 287)?
95-96

95
The Captain sneers at you and says sarcastically,

‘Why yes, mighty warrior, we shall be glad to do as
you ask. You shall dine with our leader, Hawkana,
tonight. Mount yourself behind Elvira here,’ she
says, pointing at one of the younger women. The
women begin to chuckle and then the Captain says,
‘But first we must take your weapon.’ Turn to 142.

96
You catch it by surprise and strike it a mighty blow.

It hisses in rage and pain and comes at you with its
claws. You must fight the MINION OF DEATH.
Each time it strikes you, it draws your life-force,
so you lose 1 SKILL point, as well as the normal
STAMINA loss.

MINION
OF DEATH SKILL 7 STAMINA 5

If you win, turn to 175.
97

97
You have run into the gothic building you saw from

the road. It is the temple of Death and a huge

_ congregation is taking part in a religious ceremony.
Hundreds of black-cowled figures kneel at prayer in
the dark, vaulted church. The black candles shed
enough light for you to see that many of them have
embraced Death already. Quickly, you swathe
yourself in one of the black robes of worship hang-
ing ‘by the arch. The organ sounds a loud and
doleful chord and the high priest, Somnus, is in-
vited to begin. He raises his arms and his voice
echoes round the vaults as he chants an invocation
in the same doleful tones. The altar is suffused with
red light and a phantom lake of boiling blood
appears. Emerging from the lake are six mounted
wraiths, hunched figures cloaked in a pall of evil.
The blood pours from them as they spur their black
hell-steeds into the aisle. Somnus cries, ‘I charge
you, Instruments of Death, to recover the Talis-
man!’ In unison the long-dead lords reply, their
voices harsh with the hatred of ages, ‘It shall be
done.’ The congregation sighs with a mixture of fear
and awe. You notice one of them walking to the
back of the church where he places a helmet on his
head and disappears completely. Will you:

Melt into the congregation and

kneel down? Turn to 157
Make a run for the door? Turn to 188
Put on one of the helmets? Turn to 165
98

98
You tell him everything and he listens with growing
amazement. He introduces himself as Apothecus, a
sage of history. ‘I have heard of the Talisman of
Death. You must recover it at all costs.’ He suggests
that you enlist the help of the Thieves’ Guild, as he
doesn’t think you can recapture it alone. ‘It willbe in
the temple to Fell-Kyrinla by now, I'll warrant.
Hawkana, the High Priestess, will be holding it
there. Go to the Red Dragon Inn on the Street of
Seven Sins. It is dangerous, but you may make
contact with the thieves there.’ He gives you a
breakfast of savoury pancakes and invites you to
dinner that evening, saying that he will try to dis-
cover more to aid you. ‘In the meantime,’ he says,
‘take these.’ He hands you five pieces of gold and a
ring. ‘It is a ring which increases your skill at arms.’
Add 2 to your skILL score while wearing this ring.
As you leave he gives you a jade rose. ‘When you
return this evening show this and I will know that
you are nota shape-changer.’ You thank him for his
help and leave the bungalow. Will you go to the Red
Dragon Inn (turn to 57), or head for the temple (turn
to 221)? .

99-100

99
You continue along the wall and, to your relief, find

the postern gate. You duck through and out into the
night beyond. Gain 1 Luc« point for escaping the
city. Turn to 8.

100

The Priest steps towards you and tells you this
story. ‘Long ago the minions of the God Death, in
the City of the Runes of Doom, fashioned a Talis-
man that would allow them, if the time was right, to
summon their God to the surface of this world. That
time has now come. If Death is summoned ail life
will cease. Only Death’s minions will continue to
exist in an awful half-life. His presence will spread
like a grey shadow across the world of Orb. Every-
thing will turn to dust and the balance of nature will
be disrupted for ever. The Loremasters of Serakub,
a group of holy people, have striven to prevent this.
They sent a group of Crusaders, of which we four
alone survive, on a quest to steal the Talisman. The
Fleshless King of the minions of Death had sent the
Talisman to the depths of the Rift for safe-keeping.
100 ,

We have entered this pit of evil and seized it.’ He
pulls a necklace out from under his surcoat. On it
hangs a disc of obsidian, in the middle of which is a
skull carved in ruby — the Talisman of Death! He
hands it to you. ‘Here. For the sake of all Orb you
must take this Talisman and continue the quest. It
cannot be destroyed, but if you can take it to your
world, it will be beyond the reach of the claw of the
Fleshless King.’

You are impressed by the courage and unselfish
fortitude of these people and resolve to continue the
quest. You take the Talisman. It feels cold and heavy
around your neck. The Wizard turns to you and
says, ‘I am gojng to use the powers of magic to
transport you to the surface. Head west until you
come to the city of learning, Greyguilds-on-the-
Moor, where you may discover a way to return to
your own world. Do not fail us! Here, take this gold,
it may be of use.’ He gives you a purse with 10 gold
pieces in it. As the Wizard prepares his spell, a
horde of creatures boils into the cavern. Turn to.125.

102-102

101

The Captain and other members of the patrol start to
laugh at you. She throws her head back with her
hands on her hips and stares at you. ‘Give me your
sword and climb up behind Elvira here.’ She points
to one of the younger women. ‘We must take you
back to Greyguilds.’ Will you hand your sword to
her (turn to 155), or refuse to give it up (turn to 142)?

102
The surly men around the ale cellar scowl at you.
The barman says, ‘Don’t know I'm sure. Why don’t
you ask them” and then shuts up. One of the men
at the table of six says menacingly, ‘Yes, come on-
and ask us.’ Turn to 280.

103

103 :
You roll through just as the rock slams down with a
reverberating crash, inches from your face. You
walk down the tunnel until you come toa dark iron
door. A message has been painted in shimmering
letters upon it - ‘One only can be read.’ You swing
the door open and enter a rectangular room with an
iron door in each wall. In the centre of the room
stand three pillars, one rectangular, one circularand
one square. Will you:

Leave the room through one of the

other doors? Turn to 339
Examine the rectangular pillar? Turn to 290
Examine the circular pillar? Turn to 321

Examine the square pillar? Turn to 345

104-105

104

You continue on down Smith Street. There are no
shops here and the street is deserted except for a
stooping, cowled figure, who looks like a beggar.
He comes up to you and suddenly draws himself up
to his full height. Inside the cowl there is noth-
ing — no face, just two glowing coals suspended in
blackness. Your horror at this apparition turns to
dread as it hisses in a sibilant whisper, ‘Did you
think you could run from Death? Give me the
Talisman.’ A black-gloved claw reaches out towards
you. Do you say that you no longer have the Talis-
man (turn to 81), or attack this thing immediately
(turn to 96)?

105
You jump aside at the last moment but are still
caught by the heat of the blast. Lose 3 STAMINA
points. If you are still alive you may wish to use one
of the following, if you have any of them:

A Vial of Vapours of Speed Turn to 76
An Amulet made from the Horn of

a Unicorn Turn to 87
A Scroll of Agonizing Doom Turn to 59

None of these things . Turn to 50
106

106

The magician conjures up a cloud of blue, green and
pink smoke, which engulfs the spectators. While
you watch, Tyutchev, the man from the Red Dragon
Inn, appears from the shadows and enters the
smoke. By the time it clears neither he nor the
magician in the grey robes are anywhere to be seen,
but the members of the crowd are accusing one
another, between coughing fits, of being cutpurses.
You realize that Tyutchev and the magician are in
cahoots. As you turn to leave, a servant places a
silver salver under your nose. It bears a gold-
embossed card inviting you to take sherry with one
Mortphilio. ‘This way if you please,’ says the man.
You ask who Mortphilio is and he replies, ‘One of
the elders of the city,’ but says no more. Will you go
with him (tum to 144), or decline the invitation (turn
to 83)?
107~108

107

You walk off in the opposite direction. Your leg
aches where the man-trap wounded you and you
cannot find an inn. Unable to go any further, you
curl up in an alley and sleep, despite the cold. Your
awakening is rude indeed, for you are being
dangled in front of the face of a huge OGRE! He
grins evilly as he swings your head against the wall
and drops you. Lose 2 STAMINA points. If you are
still alive you must fight the Ogre.

OGRE SKILL 8 STAMINA 10

If you win, turn to 74.

108
You wake up witha start. Itis dawn. You regain any
STAMINA points you lost fighting Hawkana in the
spirit world. However, you feel as if you had actual-
ly fought her and your sleep has had no restorative
powers. You gather up your belongings and trudge
onward. Turn to 326.

109

109
Your spirit floats gently towards the Valley
of Death. The featureless, wind-blasted plain
stretches away endlessly, beyond the horizon. The
souls of the dead wander there aimlessly, in soli-
tude. Just as you approach the edge of the valley, an
ethereal wind gets up and your soul is wafted away.
Soon you feel yourself in the presence of the two
who summoned you to. this fantastic world of
magic. The eyeless being in robes of shifting hues
says, ‘Allis not yet lost.’ You understand the words
without hearing them. ‘If your spirit is willing we
will reunite it with your body and turn back the
wheels of time.’ The other being offers you a choice:
‘If you wish it, I will send you back in time. You will
beat the lip of the Rift again.’ Do you wish to go back
in time to attempt the quest again? If you do, he lays
a hand on your shoulder. They disappear. You are

alive again. Your wounds are healed and you have
~ 10 Provisions. You have only the equipment with
which you began the adventure, including the Talis-
man of Death, if you had lost it. Anything else you
picked up on the way has disappeared and will have
to be crossed off your Adventure Sheet. Your SKILL,
STAMINA and LUCK are at their Initial levels. Sud-
denly you are on the surface of Orb once again. Tum
to 125.
i10-111

110
The Hoglord says, ‘I will help you, man-thing, for
you may help me. Anancient Red Dragon hasits lair
within Mount Star-reach. It is the guardian of the
portals. The last time itawoke, which was before my
children were born, it despoiled our villages. You
must slay it before you can go through the portals. It
breathes fire which one cannot withstand, save
when one is sheltered by scales from the Dragon
itself. You must steal three of the scales from its lair
and fashion a shield out of them.’ He gives you a
parting gift, a stoppered gourd containing the Gum
of an Amber Pine, with which to make the shield.
You dine with,them on mangoes, nuts and guavas
(gain 2 STAMINA points). You thank them and
leave. After a long climb you come to a wide cave
mouth reeking of sulphur — the Dragon's lair. You
decide to enter. Turn to 7.

111

When they see that you have overcome their leader
single-handed, the rest of the Orcs turn tail and run.
You hurry on down the far side of the hill. Before
you lies a steep-sided valley deep in ferns. You
decide to head down into it, hoping to elude the
Elves. Turn to 203.
412-113

112
The wind whirls under your shield, whips it out of
your grasp and, to your dismay, hurls it over the
summit. The Dragon chuckles and exhales a mighty
breath. As the air rushes from its cavernous lungs it
ignites. You are consumed by rolling jets of flame
and charred to a cinder. Turn to 43.

113
You step over the fallen guard and, pushing open
the double doors, enter the Inner Sanctum of the
temple. A tail raven-haired woman, Hawkana, the
High Priestess, is praying at the altar, upon which
lies the Talisman of Death. Beyond the altar is a
large marble statue of the Goddess wearing chain-
mail, her expression arrogant and cruelly beautiful.
Hawkana rises and turns. She resembles the statue
and is wearing a long dress of black chainmail. Turn
to 222.
14

114
The Priest steps towards you and tells you this
story. ‘Long ago the minions of the God Death, in
the City of the Runes of Doom, fashioned a Talis-
man that would allow them, when the time suited
their evil designs, to summon their God to the
surface of this world. That time has now come. If
Death is summoned, all life will cease. Only Death’s
minions will continue to exist in an awful half-life.
His presence will spread like a grey shadow across
the world of Orb, which is where you are now.
Everything will turn to dust and the balance of
nature will be disrupted for ever. The Loremasters
of Serakub, a group of holy people, have striven to
prevent this. They sent a group of Crusaders, of
which we four alone survive, on a quest to steal the
Talisman. The Fleshless King of the minions of
Death had sent the Talisman to the depths of the Rift
for safe-keeping. We have entered this pit of evil

114

and seized it.’ He pulls out a necklace from under
his surcoat. On it hangs a disc of obsidian, with a
ruby skull carved at its centre ~ the Talisman of
Death! He hands it to you. ‘Here. For the sake of all
Orb you must take this Talisman and continue the
quest. It cannot be destroyed but, if you can return
to your own world with it, it will be beyond the
reach of the claw of the Fleshless King.’

The hypnotic spell binds you — your whole being
is given over to the completing of the quest. The
Talisman feels cold and heavy around your neck.
The Wizard turns to you and says, ‘lam going to use
the powers of magic to transport you to the surface.
Head west until you come to the city of learning,
Greyguilds-on-the-Moor, where you may discover
a way to return to your own world. Do not fail us!
Here, take this gold, it may be of use.’ He gives you
a purse with 10 gold pieces in it. As the Wizard
prepares his spell, a horde of creatures boils into the
cavern. Turn to 125.

115-116

115
You tiptoe stealthily towards the Dragon. Its nos-
trils twitch and a great yellow slitted eye flutters °
open and fixes you with its gaze. Will you:

Run out of the cavern and up the

mountain as fast as you can? Turn to 335
Stand your ground? Turn to 170
Run back, hoping to explore the

narrow side-tunnel? Turn to 22

116

You trudge on beneath oppressive grey skies. The
Talisman seems to weigh you down, like a millstone
round your neck. At last you can see the plateau
looming ahead of you, but this does nothing to
dispel the nervousness you feel. At dusk you make
camp and the dark pall of night engulfs you.
Exhausted, you fall asleep. A more vivid dream
disturbs your rest. Hawkana appears again, but
her outline is hazy and insubstantial. She beckons
once more ~ the void that separates you is neither
time nor space. You feel yourself moving towards
her and everything around you becomes misty
and ethereal. You have been drawn to the edge of
the Valley of Death. You must fight her.

HAWKANA'S
SPIRIT SKILL 10 STAMINA 12

If you win, turn to 108. If you lose this combat in
the spirit world, turn to 23.
117-118

117
You walk with the Priestess into a small grassy
square. On the far side of the square stands a
magnificent tiered temple, covered by a wonderful
hanging garden. A flock of many types of small
coloured birds takes flight as you pass two guards
and enter through the wide green doors. Inside is a
long hall, decorated with flowers. You both kneel in
prayer before the altar, which is loaded with grain
and fruit. She prays for the protection of all living
things. After a few moments of reflection, she takes
your hand in hers and leads you into a small room at
the side of the hall. On a stand is a suit of silvery
chainmail. Lillantha says, ‘The All-Mother has
spoken to me of your quest. She wishes you to take
this — it may be of help.’ Thanking her, you put on”
the chainmail which is miraculously light. It is
obviously magical — gain 1 SKILL point. ‘One final
thing: the gates are guarded by followers of the
All-Mother on the evenings of market-days and for
the three days following. If you wish to leave the
city without others knowing, leave then.’ You thank
her and, leaving the peace of the temple, return to
the hubbub of Store Street. Turn to 130.

118
You have come under the Dragon’s spell. He urges
you to approach the portal. When you get closer he
says, ‘You man-things are so easily tricked.’ He
jumps upon you and rends you limb from limb.
Turn to 43.
119

119
‘Imanage, mostly,’ he says; ‘but it puts me in mind
of one time not so long ago when things really got
out of hand.’ He goes on to tell you a story about
Heimdol the Mighty. It seems that Heimdol was one
of the strongest and most unpleasant men ever to
have swilled beer in the Red Dragon. One day a
stranger, Tyutchev, accepted his invitation to a bout
of arm-wrestling. Heimdol lost for the first time in
his life. He was furious and threatened awful
reprisals if Tyutchev ever returned. A few nights
later Tyutchev did return and began methodically to
insult Heimdol and two of his friends. In the inevi-
table fight which followed Tyutchev killed them all
and carved his initials on Heimdol's forehead. ‘He
worships the God of insane chaos, Anarchil, and
since then none has dared gainsay him here, even
though they are all thieves and murderers.’ You
decide the time has come to introduce yourself to
the thieves, and you walk over to their table. Turn to
280.

120

You walk down the tunnel until you come to a dark
iron door. A message has been painted in shimmer-
ing letters upon it - ‘One only may be read.’ You
swing the door open and enter a rectangular room
with iron doors in each wall. In the centre of the
room stand three small pillars, one rectangular, one
circular and one square. Will you:

Leave the room through one of the

other doors? Turn to 339
Examine the rectangular pillar? Turn to 290
Examine the circular pillar? Turn to 321
Examine the square pillar? Turn to 345

121

You sleep again, until the late morning sun, shining
into the stable, wakes you. You stretch and your
hand touches something cold lying in the straw. Itis
a gold piece, which you decide to pocket before
leaving the stable. If you want to go down one of the
side-streets that leads to the Street of Seven Sins and
the Red Dragon Inn, turn to 57. If you decide against
mixing with thieves and try to take the Talisman
from the temple on your own, turn to 221.
122-124

122
They accept the ruby, showing their appreciation
with bows and snorts. In a friendly manner they
motion you to go with them to their village. Will you
thank them, but decline and go on your way (turn to
14), or accompany them to their village (turn to 72)?

; 123

The arrogance of the warrior-women is ruffled at
your mention of the City of the Runes of Doom. The
Captain hesitates, narrowing her eyes. There is a
flicker of fear in the eyes of some of the younger
women. The Captain clears her throat and says, ‘We
must take you to Hawkana, Marshal of the Watch at
Greyguilds.’ Turn to 152.

124
The guards come back down the stairs and you are
attacked from all sides. You fight valiantly but there
are too many of them. You are overwhelmed and
slain. Turn to 109.
125-126

1235

Dark Elves and Cave Trolls are pouring into the
cavern, attacking the Shieldmaiden. As the Paladin
and Priest rush to her aid, you see a huge shadowy
form looming behind the sea of Elves and Trolls.
The Paladin’s glittering sword cuts through the
horde but the Dark Elves are using magic and the
Shieldmaiden is unable to turn back their attack.
She falls beneath their onslaught. The huge fiend
howls triumphantly, just as the wizard completes
his spell. Turn to 185.

126

At nightfall you set off for the Moorgate hoping that
the followers of the All-Mother will now be on -
guard. As you leave Store Street, a figure steps from
the shadows. He wears a hood which conceals his
features but you recognize the ornately spiked
armour and black-steel sword of a Dark Elf. One of
those who attacked the Crusaders in the Rift must
have infiltrated the city! He doesn’t waste words but
swings his sword. You must fight the Dark Elf.

DARK ELF SKILL 8 STAMINA 8
If you win, turn to 249.

127

127
You force yourself on through the wilds of nature’s
creation. But the singing of the birds sounds hollow
to you and premonitions of death haunt you as you
stumble on in a waking dream. At nightfall you
build a large fire and set torches around it. Unable to
sleep, you wait and listen. The Talisman grows
heavy. Soon the wild neighing which disturbed
your sleep yesterday peals again, rending the peace
of the night..The chilling challenge is answered,
again and again. Soon, to your horror, six of the
nightmarish horses, eyes and nostrils aflame,
appear, each bearing the crooked, life-hating spirit
of a Wraith, They form an arc, all staring at you

- intently. In unison their cracked voices cry, ‘We are
the instruments of Death. We have come to claim
you for our master and to take back his Talisman.’
You stand with the fire between yourself and them,
but they urge their horses through the flames.
Under their attack you feel your life-force ebbing
away. You become like them, a travesty of life, for
ever doomed to an existence filled with hatred and
jealousy of all living things.

128-129

128

You are left alone to wonder how the law-keepers of
this city could be so cruel as to leave an innocent
person in such dire straits. You tear feverishly at the
trap, terrified of some footpad slitting your throat
for his own vile amusement. Soft footsteps
approach. You look over your shoulder and see a
man approaching. ‘Here,’ he says, ‘let me rescue
you from this trap.’ He steps on the release catch,
which had been out of your reach and the trap
springs open. You step free and he walks along by
your side. ‘Have you a place to stay tonight?
Perhaps you would like to sleep in my humble
abode?’ he asks, looking sideways at you. You are
curious that he should be walking the streets alone
at night, but you are also exhausted. Will you accept
his offer and go home with him (turn to 143), or
decline his offer (turn to 107)?

129
You realize that the Dragon is beguiling you and
that you should never allow a Dragon to engage you
in conversation. You run forward to attack him.
Turn to 382.
130

130

As you walk along Store Street once more, you
notice that the stores are closing. The throng of
people hurrying home parts, to make way fora large
black carriage drawn by two black mares. They
plumed headdresses made of long black feathers.
The cloaked coachman stares grimly ahead. You
step into the gutter to let the coach pass and, as you
do so, the coachman reins in. Inside you see an
empty black coffin, but the name inscribed in silver
letters on the lid is your own. The door of the funeral
carriage opens and a handsome man with a silver
cane steps down. He is dressed in the finest silver
satin and sable furs. A storekeeper greets him. He
smiles and nods, then turns to you. ‘I am the envoy
of Death; I have come for the Talisman,’ he saysina
voice of doom. As you prepare to resist, a startling
transformation takes place, which seems to be
ignored by all around. His magnificent furs turn to
rags. Where once blue eyes looked out from a finely
featured face, now hollow sockets gaze at you from
a blackened and cracked skull. His skeletal hand
now grips a tarnished rapier. You realize that no-
body else can see this transformation. ‘Give it to
me,’ he says. Will you:

Give him the Talisman (if you
have it)? Turn to 179
Attack him immediately? Turn to 271

Deny that you have it? Turn to 220
131-133

131
Realizing that you cannot stay with the Sage, you
set out to find a bed for the night. Turn to 28.

132

You are engulfed in flame. The pain is terrible and
you can hardly see. Lose 6 sraM1NA points. If you
are still alive you may wish to use one of the
following, if you have any of them:

Vapours of Speed Turn to 76
Unicorn Amulet Turn to 87
Scroll of Agonizing Doom Turn to 59
None of these things Turn to 50

133
Deduct one unit of Provisions from your Adventure

Sheet. Too late, you realize you are handing them
salted pork. The Hogmen are offended. They de-
mand in grunts that you go with them to their
village. Will you go with them (turn to 365), or
refuse (turn to 172)?
134

134
You set off across the rocky broken ground towards
the hills. After a short while you notice two armed
bands running towards you. The group to the south
consists of twenty or more Orcs, snarling as they
lope purposefully towards you. They are hunched
and misshapen, dressed in greasy, blackened
leather and carrying saw-toothed scimitars. Their
shields are emblazoned with a purple claw. To the
north, you can make out a small group of Dark
Elves, similar to those which killed the Shield-
maiden. They are tall and lithe, wearing ornately
spiked armour and carrying longswords of a dull
black metal. They are some way off but are closing
fast. Will you:

Head for the Orcs? Turn to 68
Head for the Elves? Turn to 214
Run for the hills? Turn to 63

Hide? Turn to 148
135-136

135
Treading on some dry leaves, you are unlucky to

snap a hidden twig. As the BASILISK turns its gaze
upon you, your body grows heavy. You fling your-
self into the undergrowth as your skin begins to
turn a stony grey colour. You have just avoided
being turned to stone by the reptile’s gaze, but the
effects of partial petrification have damaged your
muscle fibres. Lose 1 SKILL point. Hastily, you cuta
path through the undergrowth and leave the slug-
gish but deadly monster behind, rejoining the path
further on. Turn to 270.

136
An inscription on the rectangular pillar reads:

Put yourself in the place of the monkey.
To the left is danger; the idle shall act.

As you ponder the meaning of the strange message,
a trickle of sand falls on your head. You look up to
see the roof cracking and an avalanche of sand starts
pouring down. With a grating rumble, a slab of rock
starts to fall across the exit ahead. Your only hope is
to hurl yourself through the narrowing gap. Roll
two dice. If the total is equal to or less than your
SKILL score turn to 103. If the total is greater than
your SKILL score turn to 215.
137-138

137
You begin rummaging through the trappings of the

temple. You feel a tingling sensation in your finger,
followed by a sharp pain. Looking at your hand you
see that Hawkana’s ring is shrinking. You try to pull
it off but it is too late. You can only watch as the ring
constricts to a solid ball and severs your finger. Lose
1 SKILL and 2 STAMINA points. You can feel the
dreadful malice of the Goddess directed against you
and you decide to try the doors. Turn to 16.

138
You take out the Talisman and examine it carefully.
For the first time you notice a glowing inscription, as
if the nearness of the minions of Death was lending
it power. I am Death's Talisman. I am protected by the
Faceless Ones who serve my wielder. At nightfall, you
build a large fire and set torches around it. Unable to
sleep, you wait and listen. The Talisman grows
heavy. Soon the wild neighing which disturbed
your sleep yesterday peals again, rending the peace
of the night. The chilling challenge is answered,
again and again. Soon, to your horror, six of the
139

nightmarish horses, eyes and nostrils aflame,
appear, each bearing the crooked life-hating spirit of
a Wraith. They form an arc, all staring at you intent-
ly. In unison, their cracked voices cry, ‘We are the
instruments of Death. We have come to claim you
for our master and to take back his Talisman.’ Will
you:

Threaten to cast the Talisman into

, the fire? Turn to 388
Try to break through the circle? Turn to 164
Try to use the power of the

Talisman? Turn to 46
139

Inside, working at an anvil, is a brawny man,
glistening with sweat. He is fashioning the hilt of a
sword. Other finished swords stand in a rack along
one side of the shop. ‘Take your pick. Seven gold
pieces,’ he says, without looking up. You may buy
one if you wish (turn to 160), or thank him and
leave (turn to 104).

140-142

140
You can hear the clank of armour as a group of
guards rushes past the arras, heading up the stairs.
You continue down until you reach the double
doors at the bottom. A guard remains on duty
before them. She shouts a warning and runs for-
ward to attack you. You must fight her.

TEMPLE GUARD SKILL 7 STAMINA 8

If she is still alive after five combat rounds, turn to
124. If you win within five combat rounds, turn to
113.

141
Harg disappears before the hammer lands. ‘Very
good,’ says Thaum. ‘Now, what about this?’ Turn to
171. .

142
Ata command from the Captain, the circle of horses
closes in on you. You draw your sword and manage
to wound one of the womten before you are attacked
from all sides. They are strong fighters and use the
flat blades of their swords to stun you. You drop
your sword and fall to the ground. Lose 2 SKILL
points. When you acquire another sword, you may
restore them. There are too many warriors to resist,
so you decide to do as you are told for a while and
accept a helping hand on to Elvira's horse. She does
not look too pleased that you are going to sit behind
her all the way to Greyguilds. You console yourself
with the thought that at least you are going in the
tight direction. Turn to 257.
3143-144

143
The man’s house is a small stone bungalow. He

leads you into his bedroom and offers you a straw-
filled mattress behind a curtain. Thankful for the
chance to rest, you go to sleep without asking any
questions. You sleep deeply and regain 4 STAMINA
points. You wake to find that your host is sitting
watching you. ‘I hope you are well rested. You
talked in your sleep.’ He smiles at you and says, ‘Do
you need help? Has someone stolen something
from you? How did you come to be trapped, alone
on the street late at night?’ If you want to tell him the
whole story and ask him for advice, turn to 98. If you
would prefer to say that you cannot answer, turn to.

92.

You are led along tree-lined avenues, through a

- quarter of the city you have not yet visited. Ahead of

you is a large gothic building with pinnacles sur-
mounted by bat-like gargoyles. Before you reach it,
the servant leads you into a nearby house. You
follow him through to a dark parlour at the back.
145

The walls are made of pale bamboo and ina gloomy
corner a decrepit-looking invalid is sitting in a bath-
chair, most of his form hidden under blankets. The
servant lights four large black candles before leaving
you alone with Mortphilio. ‘Thank you for coming.
It is seldom that I entertain anyone who looks so
vital and full of life.’ His voice is hoarse and he finds
it an effort to speak. The smoke from the candles
makes you feel sleepy, but you are startled back to
full awareness when a human skull on the mantel-
piece starts to talk. ‘This is the one, master.’ At a
command from Mortphilio, the skull lifts off the
mantelpiece and hovers, shadowy wings holding it
aloft. ‘Kill,’ says the necromancer and the skull
hurtles towards you, jaws snapping. You must fight
the WINGED SKULL

WINGED SKULL SKILL 7 STAMINA 6
If you win turn, to 396.

145
Scarface says, ‘What do you mean? Are you sug-

gesting we are thieves?’ There is an edge in his voice
and a tension among his comrades, two of whom
have their hands upon their daggers. Will you:

Hotly deny it? Turn to 272
Say that you are? Turn to 281
Ignore this, and say you have

valuable information forthem? Turn to 246
146-147

146
The Dragon exhales a mighty breath. As the air
tushes from its lungs it ignites and rolling jets of
flame fill the cavern. You are charred to a cinder.
Turn to 43.

147
You hide in the middle of a clump of bushes and
peer out into the clearing. After a while, the Druid
reappears in front of you. ‘Since you have chosen to
further defile the Sacred Grove by remaining here, I
shall assume you have no wish to leave.’ Before you
can move, he utters some strange words and the
bushes begin to grow around you. The leafy tendrils
which wrap themselves around your limbs are sur-
prisingly tough. You are held fast. You plead with
him to free you but to no avail. After three days
without water you slip from delirium into a coma,
from which you never recover.

3 148
You dart down a gully and conceal yourself as best
you can ina crack in the rock that reeks of sulphur,

“hoping that the stream of pebbles you dislodged
will not give you away. Soon you can hear the
ominous sounds of snuffling as the Orcs try to sniff
you out. Suddenly one of them cries out — you have
been discovered! You struggle out of your hiding-
place and draw your sword but you are bowled over
in the rush. One of them grabs your pouch of gold.
The coins fly out into the air. Immediately they
begin to squabble over the spoils. They do not notice
that the group of Elves have appeared at the top of
the gully and are looking down. Without a word,
the five Elves descend upon the Orcs and, thanks to
their magic, soon prevail. Seizing your opportunity,
you grab your empty pouch and flee over the hill
into the valley beyond. Turn to 203.
149-150

149
You turn left down Hornbeam Road, looking for the

coal-hole. You see what looks like a coal-cellar at the
back of a dilapidated warehouse. You duck into it
and find a small crawl-way hidden on the other side
of the pile of coal. You craw! down a chute and out
into a small passageway that winds for some dis-
tance beneath the city. You come toa door and push
it open. You step into a magnificently furnished
room; evidently the Thieves’ Guild lacks nothing. A
group of men is waiting for you, lounging on sofas.
Some of them you recognize from the Red Dragon
Inn, in particular the one with a scar running from
ear to chin. Turn to 209.

150

‘We are the priesthood of Death,’ says one of the
figures. ‘We have come for what is ours.’ Your arms
are held and you are searched. Realizing that you
are not carrying the Talisman, they step back. One
of them strikes you across the face. ‘Where is it
hidden — worm?’ Suddenly, the clatter of hooves
disturbs the menacing priests. A large group of
riders carrying torches comes into sight and the
priests melt back into the shadowsas silently as they
came. The riders of the Watch halt before you.
‘You're in a pretty pickle. That's one less problem
for us tonight, eh, girls?’ This provokes a gale of
laughter but you fail to see the funny side as they
ride off, leaving you held fast in the jaws of the trap.
Turn to 128.
151-153

151
They stare and you cannot be sure what effect your
gestures are having, or even if they can understand
you at all. Will you:

- Offer them some dried meat, if you

have any left? Turn to 133
Offer them a ruby, if you have
one? Turn to 122
Attack them? Turn to172
152

The Captain of the patrol demands that you surren-
der your sword, and says, ‘Climb up behind Elvira
there.’ She points to one of the younger women.
Will you obey (turn to 155), or refuse (turn to 142)?

153
With a shock, you realize that your foot is poking
out under the arras. You pull it back as fast as you
can, but you hear footsteps stopping on the other
side. A woman's voice rings out, ‘Ha! A rat, dead for
a silver.’ She plunges her sword through the arras
and into your stomach. Within moments you are
dead. Turn to 109.

154-155

154

As the sun rises, you set off once more across the
wild plains. With every hour that passes, the Talis-
man seems to grow heavier. You realize that it is
registering the presence of the minions of Death. Do
you wish to examine it again (turn to 138), or keep it
hidden in case it may draw them to you (turn to
127)?

155
Elvira helps you up behind her. She appears none
too pleased at the prospect of sharing her horse with
you and you ride in silence across the wilderness.
Lose 2 SKILL points until you acquire another
sword. Turn to 257.

156-157

156

You come out into the Street of Seven Sins and soon
find the Red Dragon Inn. Steps lead downwards
and the sound of raucous laughter floats up from
the smoke-filled gloom below. You enter and walk
over to the only part of the dive where it is light
enough to make anything out. Passing tables and
stools, you come to the bar, behind which stands
the bulky proprietor of the inn. Do you have the
brass tiger charm? If you do, turn to 11. If you do
not, turn to 3.

157

You kneel at the. end of a row of worshippers. A
golden chalice is being passed along and each mem-
ber of the congregation drinks from it. Your neigh-
bour drinks with relish and then turns to you; his
face is waxen and white, but his eyes are crimson
and bloodshot. Blood drips from his vampire fangs.
He hands you the chalice and you have to drink. It is
human blood, cursed in Death’s name. It curdles in
your stomach, and you are seized by a palsy and
lose 4 STAMINA points. If you are still alive, you see
the wraiths ride into the inner chapel, accompanied
by Somnus, and the congregation begins to file out.
You manage to gain the street without being noticed
and, flinging the black robe away, you set out in
search of the Thieves’ Guild. Turn to 83.
158~159

158

You ask the scholars to use their spell. ‘Something
appears to be wrong,’ mumbles Moreau guiltily.
The spell is not working. Out of the corner of your
eye you can see him gesticulating as if casting a
spell, but the beast is unaffected. You must fightit to
the death. Return to the paragraph you came from.
You may not appeal for help again.

159

You force through heavy undergrowth for some
time, making your way over the hill and into the
thick, wooded valley on the other side. You then
take a trail heading west and are making good speed
until, rounding a corner, you see a huge brown-
scaled lizard with eight legs, basking in the sun. Its
heavy homed jaw is filed with long pointed teeth.
You may Test your Luck to see if you can slip past
without waking it. If you are Lucky, turn to 267. If
you are Unlucky, turn to 135. If you prefer not to
take this risk and leave the path to cuta way through
the undergrowth, turn to 384.

160-161

160
You choose a sword which feels well balanced. Itis a
well-crafted longsword, similar to those used by the
warrior-women. You may restore the 2 SKILL points
you lost if you had your sword taken. You pay the
man and leave. Turn to 104.

161

Before you plunge your arm into the water, you
notice that the sap from the tree is healing a small
graze on your wrist. You realize it has healing
powers and decide to collect some more sap from
the branch you cut from the tree. You may use the
Sap of the Willow to restore 4 STAMINA points once,
when you think it will help you most. Moving
quickly away from the spring you decide to follow
the small river that runs through the valley, heading
west. Turn to 39.
162

162

‘We are the priesthood of Death,’ says one of the
figures. ‘We have come for what is ours.’ Your arms
are held and you are searched. The Talisman is torn
from you by their leader. ‘I have it, brothers, I have
it,’ he exclaims in triumph. ‘Now may our Lord
enter his kingdom.’ They cheer loudly, oblivious to
the approach of a large group of riders. ‘Stand,
make no move,’ a woman’s voice rings out. It is the
Watch. One of the priests mumbles an unholy in-
cantation. You see a wave of fear break over the
women and their steeds. Some cannot control their
horses, others flee, but the bravest charge the
priests with loud cries of battle. The priests are
unprepared: some are knocked to the ground,
others make good their escape, as silently as they
came. The Talisman falls to the ground, its bearer
decapitated as he turns to flee. It is caught up by
one of the Watch, who announces her intention of
taking it to the temple of Fell-Kyrinla. They wheel
their horses and ride away, leaving you to rot. You
have lost the Talisman. Cursing bitterly, you re-
solve that if you escape you will not rest until you
have regained it. Turn to 128.
163-164

163

You land safely next to the thieves. Scarface looks
surprised to see you. ‘Bloodheart?’ he inquires.
‘Failed, you treacherous dogs,’ you reply, bran-
dishing your sword. Jemmy the Rat turns tail and
flees across the roof-tops. Lord Min looks at Scarface
and shrugs. ‘I’m not fighting the killer of Hawkana,’
he says. They swing under the eaves and climb like
spiders to an open window. Not wishing to attempt
this climb, you make your way back to’the safe
house across the roof-tops, and climb down to the
street, where you stop to regain your breath before
leaving the city. Turn to 235.

164
You thrust the torch at the head of one of the
nightmarish steeds; the flames flicker, but earthly
fire cannot harm them and their riders urge them at
you. Under their attack you feel your life-force
ebbing away. You become like them, a travesty of
life, for ever doomed.

165-166

165
Worshippers make way for you as you walk to-
wards the helmet, your face shrouded in the cowl of
the black robe. It is standing on a table and is made
of interwoven silver bands. You place it in your
head and find yourself outside in the street. The
helmet bestows quickness of thought and reaction
to its wearer. Add 1 to your SKILL score. You guess
that powerful Priests of Death use the helmets to
come-and go from the temple without being seen.
Feeling lucky to be alive you set out to find the
Thieves’ Guild. Turn to 83.

5 166

Smiling delightedly, she asks about Wodeman. You
tell her what happened in the Sacred Grove. ‘Then
you are welcome at the temple. I am Lillantha, a
Priestess of the All-Mother, Fountain of Life. I am
on my way to prayer. Perhaps you would like to join
me?’ Will you accompany her (turn to 117), or
decline and say you must be on your way (turn to
130)?

167-168

167

Their eyes narrow and suddenly a terrible pain
shoots into your kidneys. A thief has crept up
silently behind you and knifed you in the back (lose
6 STAMINA points). If you are still alive, you whirl
round and back to the bar. You see a wiry young
man holding a dagger dripping with your blood.
The thieves close in but with your back to the bar
only three can attack you. You must fight all three at
once. *

SKILL STAMINA
BACK-STABBER 6 6
SCARFACE 7 9
Second CUT-THROAT 7 8

If you kill Back-stabber and reduce Scarface’s
STAMINA to 5 or less, turn to 259.

168
As you touch the door, the SERPENT comes to life.
It strikes like lightning, sinking its venomous fangs
into your neck. The poison is deadly. You stagger,
your blood boiling, but you are paralysed and can-
not even inhale. You die of suffocation. Turn to 43.
169-170

169 :
Two newcomers enter.the Red Dragon ale cellar.
The first is a very tall, wiry, man whose frame is
draped in a black cloak. The only hint of colour is his
hair, very curly and dyed bright corn-yellow. The
second is a handsome young woman dressed in a
bizarre patchwork of armour. The barthan mutters
under his breath, then forces his face into a smile.
‘Tyutchev, Cassandra, welcome!’ he shouts obse-
quiously. The thieves move away from you to sit at
another table. Tyutchev strolls to the bar and orders
a drink. Cassandra sits opposite you, at your table.
She ignores you and Tyutchev joins her. Will you:

Say nothing? * Turn to2

Get up and leave the ale cellar? Turn to 363

Introduce yourself? Turn to 374
170

The Dragon raises its head, ‘Good-day to you, man-
ling.’ It speaks! Its voice is as soft as honey. It
appears to smile and you feel it may be friendly to
you. ‘Welcome to my lair. Are you looking for
something? Can help?’ Will you try to make friends
with the Dragon (turn to 317), or tell it of the
Talisman and your need to pass through the portal
(turn to 356)?

171-172

171
While Tyutchev draws his sword, Thaum points at
you. From his finger a ball of multi-coloured fire flies
towards you. Will you try to avoid the fireball by
running at Tyutchev (turn to 244), or hold your
ground (turn to 225)?

172
They lower their heads and charge at you. You
wound two of them before another catches you with
his tusks. The tremendous momentum of his charge
pitches you on to your back. Lose 2 STAMINA
points. If you are still alive, they pin you down and
drag you off to their village. Turn to 365.
473-174

173
‘Impossible,’ snaps the Captain, ‘The Spires lie to
the west of Greyguilds and you are going towards it
not coming away from it. You are under arrest.’
Turn to 152.

174
The Wraith and its hell-steed seem to disappear in
the wind. It may bea trick of the wind, but you seem
to hear a ghostly voice whispering, ‘We shall re-
turn.’ The Talisman feels lighter again. With a sigh
of relief, you lie down to sleep. You awake, feeling
better. Gain 2 STAMINA points and restore all but 1
of the skKILL points you have lost fighting the
Wraith. Turn to 154.

175-176

175
Your last blow meets no resistance. The grey cloak

billows to the ground in a heap. All is silent except
for a sudden keening of the wind. You rest and
begin to overcome the shock to your system. If you
have lost any sKILt points, all but 1 are restored.
Cautiously, you move on, coming to Silver Street.
Turn to 85. ,

: 176

The vile monstrosity sinks to the ground, squelch-
ing ina pool of blood and green ichor. The stench of
its spilled entrails is nauseating. The sages are
woebegone at the death of their creation, but they
help you out of the pit. ‘I’m sorry,’ says Moreau,
‘my spell did not work. Whata shame you had to kill
her.’ You shake your head at their madness and ask
for your gold. Polonius dives his hands into various
pockets and folds of his robes, a look of consterna-
tion crossing his features. He is about to make some
excuse, when he sees your growing anger. Eventu-
ally, he offers you a magic scroll as payment instead.
It contains a Spell of Agonizing Doom, which you
can use once only. You accept, take your leave, and
head for the house of the Sage. Turn to 273.
177-178

177

You charge at the Druid, your sword raised. Before
you can strike, your jaw drops in amazement.
Where once there was a man carrying an oak staff,
there is nowa skylark. Trilling shrilly, it flies around
you and away. After a few minutes you see the
skylark wheeling above you again. It could be trying
to draw attention to you, or perhaps it is preparing
to attack you itself. If you leave the clearing, turn to
187. If you wish to stay and hide, turn to 147.

178

The Dragon says, ‘You must believe me. If you do
not, you will die trying the portal, and cannot carry
the Talisman through.’ Its honey-smooth voice
beguiles you with its gentle charm. Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, turn to 129. If you are Unlucky, turn
to 118.
179-180

179
You hastily hand the Talisman to the skeletal envoy
of Death. As he receives it, he seems to draw unholy
strength from it. ‘You fool,’ he mocks, his voice
deep and resonant, full of malice. He touches you
with the Talisman uncannily quickly. Itis as if Death
himself had touched you and your heart beats no
more. Nothing can save you. Your quest ends here.

180
You run down the stairs four at a time. You reach
another landing before you hear the tramp of feet
coming up from below. Thinking quickly, you hide
behind an arras. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 140. If you are Unlucky, turn to 153.
181

181

The cut-throat yields and you are looked at with
some admiration and respect. The barman tries to
make light of things saying, ‘You are truly a mighty
warrior — you could even be a match for Tyutchev.’
He tells you the story of Heimdol the Mighty. It
seems that Heimdol was one of the strongest and
most unpleasant men ever to swill ale at the Red
Dragon. One day a stranger, Tyutchev, accepted his
challenge to a bout of arm-wrestling. Heimdol lost
for the first time in his life. He was furious and
threatened awful reprisals if Tyutchev ever re-
turned. A few nights later Tyutchev did return and
began to insult Heimdol and two of his friends. In
the inevitable fight which followed, Tyutchev killed
them all and carved his initials on Heimdol’s fore-
head. ‘He worships the God of insane chaos, Anar-
chil, and since that night none has dared gainsay
him here.’ If you want to ask the whereabouts of the
Thieves’ Guild, turn to 210. If you would rather ask
the cut-throats for aid in completing some un-
finished business, turn to 223.

182

182

‘We are scholars,’ says Moreau excitedly. ‘Vivisec-
tion is our field of study. We use surgery and magic
to create new forms of life. Just wait till you see our
creation.’ They take you to a large sunken pit in the
middle of the massive greenhouse. The pit is ringed
at the top with downward pointing spikes. They
lower a ladder and you all descend into it. In a
barred cage at the edge of the pit is a most loathsome
sight. The scholars’ creation is a massive beast with
the body of a giant cockroach, six giant arms for legs
and two heads, one above the other. The top one is
the head ofa crocodile and below is the warty face of
an ogre. ‘Isn't she beautiful?’ says Moreau. Polonius
says, ‘We need a valiant warrior to test her. We want
her to be used as a war-beast. Do not worry, though;
the minute she looks like harming you, Polonius
here will put her to sleep with a special spell.’ The
ogre face, which looks distinctly male, roars and
slavers. If you want to say, ‘Thank you, no, I’m not
fighting that,’ and leave immediately, turn to 201. If
you would rather say, ‘This should be interesting,’
and prepare to fight the beast, turn to 189.

183-184

183

You turn right, down Trader's Row, and walk for
some way, looking for the storm-drain. Eventually
you see it and, checking that you are unobserved,
jump down it. You land up to your ankles in slime.
You wade down the huge drain until you come toa
small round door set in the left-hand wall. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 238. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 205.

184
An inscription on the circular pillar reads:

Behind the symbol on the first door
lies that which you risk your life for.

As you try to work out the meaning of this strange
message, a pool of water forms around your feet.
You look up just as a crack splits the ceiling. A
torrent of water pours down. You jump forward as,
with a grating rumble, a slab of rock starts to fall
from the roof across the exit ahead. Your only hope
is to throw yourself through the narrowing gap. Roll
two dice. If the total is equal to or less than your
SKILL score, turn to 103. If the result is greater than
your SKILL score, turn to 215.
185-186

185

Suddenly, you are in blinding sunshine. You are
standing at the lip of an immense chasm. You
realize that this must be the Rift the Crusaders
spoke of. The rocky earth is blackened and cracked,
full of pits and fissures, and noisome fumes rise
from the depths of the chasm. To the west you see a
range of green hills partially covered in trees and
thick woodland. A few hundred metres to your right
you can‘see where a forest begins, extending all the
way to the hills. You realize that you must head in
the direction of the hills to reach Greyguilds — but
which route will you take? If you go through the
forest, turn to 256. If you would rather take the more
direct route across open ground, turn to 134.

186

You leave the building and continue on down Book-
er’s Walk. The streets are already deserted and there
are few lights in this part of the city. You search for
the welcoming light of an inn. Then, without warn-
ing, the steel teeth of a hidden man-trap snap shut
round your leg, ripping your flesh. You are in
terrible pain. Lose 2 sTAMINA points. Shadowy
figures loom out of the murk all around you. Their
faces glow with a sickly pallor in the moonlight.
They are wearing black robes clasped at the neck by
shrunken human skulls. Do you still have the Talis-
man of Death? If you have, turn to 162. If you have
not got it, turn to 150.
187-188

387

You leave the clearing, anxious that you should not
anger the Druid further by staying in the Sacred
Grove. Turn to 159.

188

You run for the door to the street at the back of the
church. Somnus sees you and points majestically.
‘Die,’ he whispers. A huge dark figure appears
before you, a great black sword in its hand. It has
black wings of shadow and a tall white crest sweeps
back from the black helmet which hides its features.
Your heart palpitates wildly and then stops beating.
The mere sight of the ANGEL OF DEATH destroys
you. You will wander the barren plain of the Valley
of Death until the end of time.

189-190

189
‘Excellent, excellent,’ enthuses Moreau. They climb
the ladder and draw it up behind them. Witha clang
the bars of the cage slide into the ground. The beast
comes towards you, intent on making you its next
meal. You must fight the VIVISECT. The Sages
produce wax tablets and begin to take notes.

VIVISECT SKILL 8 STAMINA 12

You may appeal for help at any time. If you do,
remember this reference number and turn to 158. If
you do not appeal and win, turn to 176.

190
When you have laid your weapons aside, the Dra-
gon beckons you to the portal. When you get close it
says, ‘You man-things are so easily tricked.’ It
jumps upon you and rends you limb from limb.
Turn to 43.
191-192

191

The Captain nods and says, ‘We will escort you
safely to Greyguilds. These moors are well known
for brigands. Perhaps you would like to ride behind
Elvira here.’ She points to one of the younger
women. You thank her and accept a helping hand
up, thankful to rest your legs. Elvira does not seem
too pleased at having to share her horse with you
and you ride across the wilderness in silence. Turn
to 268.

192

At last you reach the floor of the plateau itself. It
seems your aching legs have forgotten how to walk
on level ground. The vegetation is lush, like a
tropical rain forest, and your clothes cling to
you, damp with perspiration. As you pause to
listen to the screech of a scarlet macaw a group of
HOGMEN burst from the vegetation in front of
you. They are blue-grey, hairy and have heads like
tusked boars. Will you tell them that you mean no
harm (turn to 151), or attack them (turn to 172)?
193-194

193
You are weakening. You realize you are close to
death. A sudden blinding light halts the Death-
knight's onslaught. To your amazement the Paladin
crusader stands before you, bathed in a silvery
radiance. The Death-knight steps back, shielding its
face. The Paladins’ Holy Sword hums through the
air and cuts the Death-knight in two. As abruptly as
he came, the Paladin disappears. There is no sign of
your adversary but the Holy Sword remains, casting
a glow where it lies on the straw. You pick it up,
realizing that it is meant for you to use in your
struggle against Death. As you grasp it, your
wounds heal magically. You regain 6 STAMINA
points. You may add 1 to yourskILL when using the
Holy Sword. Turn to 121.

194
You drive your sword into his back. He lets out a
scream of pain as he dies. Lord Min, a small, agile
young man is behind you. He says, ‘Sloppily done.
We may all pay for that. Now, hurry!’ Turn to 283.

1195

195
You continue along Cobbler’s Walk, turning a cor-

ner or two. Suddenly, a body comes crashing
through a nearby window into the street. Splinters
of glass fly everywhere, but you are unharmed.
Moving closer you see the mangled corpse of a man
dressed in black robes covered with odd symbols. A
door to the nearby house bursts open and a man
dressed in a silver robe with black symbols, runs
into the street screaming, ‘Flee! Run for your life!’ as
he disappears. In the open doorway a monstrous
figure now stands. It springs at you with a demonic
howl. It is three metres high, with the head and
hind legs of an-elk. Its bloated humanoid torso is
mottled blue and grey and its breath clouds the air
with crystals of ice. It points at you and a gale of
freezing sleet hits you. The chill is almost crippling —
lose 3 sTAMINA points. If you are still alive, the
Demon reaches for you with its powerful talons.
You must fight it.

ICE DEMON SKILL 8 STAMINA 10

If you win, turn to 61.

196

196
The Sage shows you to a side room, full of reading
desks. A few are occupied by students of history,
young and old. With an expansive gesture he points
to a wall lined with shelves, which are filled with
scrolls and tablets. You choose a set of scrolls called
Greyguilds Revisited, by Nyleve. It is the story of a
dissolute young nobleman who failed to take
advantage of the education offered by the Guilds of
Learning. You are able to glean much interesting
information about the city. The religious orders
hold all the power. You are astonished to find that -
Vagar, the God of thieves, liars and cut-throats, has
most followers within the city. There is a temple to
Death in the city as well. Indeed it seems that
Greyguilds is not the tranquil city that it once was.
The armed forces protecting the city come from two
groups, the warrior-women who worship the evil
goddess Fell-Kyrinla, and the followers of the All-
Mother. Greyguilds lies on the edge of a large plain,
called the Manmarch, or lands of men. It is just one
of many cities in this part of the world. As you are
wondering whether you will ever visit Doomover,
or the Spires of Foreshadowing, the other students
begin filing out. With a start you realize it is already
dark and you leave quickly, looking for a safe place
to sleep. Turn to 186.
197-198

197
Suddenly, from behind you, the Captain shouts,
‘Look out! Ambush! Everybody duck!’ You hear the
sound of an arrow whistling through the air as
Elvira ducks in front of you. Will you duck (turn to
240) or wait to see what happens (turn to 224)?

198
“You have come across the wilderness? Did you by
any chance come across a man dressed in green
robes similar to my own? He would have carried an
oak staff and worn a crown of mistletoe; he would
have told you his name.’ Will you answer:

‘I did not meet him’? Turn to 226
‘His name was Dwithian’? Turn to 212
‘His name was Wodeman’? Turn to 166
199

199

As you are looking around you, checking that there
is no mate near by to avenge her death, a green-
robed figure appears in the centre of the clearing, as
if by magic. He has an oak staff in one hand and a
silver sickle in the other. A crown of mistletoe rests
on his head. Striking the ground with his staff, he
says, ‘lam the Guardian Druid of this Sacred Grove
and you have slain my friend, Snowmane, and left
her cubs motherless. May the hand that killed her
never be still.’ You feel a tremor running down your
arm ~ your sword-hand begins to shake. Lose 1
SKILL point for the Druid’s curse. If you attack the
Druid in order to force him to lift the curse, turn to
177. If you decide not to risk further dealings with
this man and leave the clearing, turn to 159.

200

During the fight the brass tiger charm falls to the
floor. Now that it is gone you realize that it was
cursed and that it forced you to insult the barman.
You make no attempt to recover it. The cut-throat
yields and you are looked at with some admiration
and respect. The barman tries to make light of
things saying, ‘You are truly a mighty warrior ~ you
could even be a match for Tyutchev.’ He tells you
the story of how Tyutchev beat Heimdol the
Mighty. It seems that Heimdol was one of the
strongest and most unpleasant men ever to swill ale
at the Red Dragon. One day a stranger, Tyutchev,
accepted his challenge to a bout of arm-wrestling.
Heimdol lost for the first time in his life. He was
furious and threatened awful reprisals if Tyutchev
ever returned. A few nights later Tyutchev did
return and began to insult Heimdol and two of his
friends. In the inevitable fight which followed,
Tyutchev killed them all and carved his initials on
Heimdol’s forehead. ‘He worships the God of in-
sane chaos, Anarchil, and since that night none has
dared gainsay him here.’ If you want to ask the
whereabouts of the Thieves’ Guild, turn to 236. If
you would rather ask them for aid in completing
some unfinished business, turn to 246.
201-202

201
‘Ah well, that’s a pity,’ says Polonius, and presses
the far wall of the pit. With a great clang bars spring
up between you and the two scholars. To your
horror you see that at the same time the bars separ-
ating you from their awful creation have slid into
the ground. The beast comes towards you, intent
on turning you into a meal. You must fight the
VIVISECT. The scholars produce wax tablets
and begin to take notes.

VIVISECT SKILL 8 STAMINA 12

You may appeal for help at any time. If you do,
remember this reference number and turn to 158. If
you do not appeal, and win, turn to 176.

202
The guard beckons you inside the temple. Just as
you enter you almost bump into Hawkana, the tall,
raven-haired High Priestess. ‘Who is this?’ she
barks. The guard explains that you claim to be a
secret messenger, but have failed to give any pass-
word. Hawkana says, ‘This person is no messenger.
Die, desecrator!’ Cursing your ill luck at meeting
Hawkana so soon after entering the temple, you
turn to run. Hawkana lets out a scream of invoca-
tion, calling on the powers of her Goddess. A pillar
of flame engulfs you as the power of Fell-Kyrinla is
unleashed. You are burnt to a cinder. Turn to 109.
203-204

203

When you reach the floor of the valley, you find a
pool into which a spring is bubbling. Feeling thirsty
after having come so far, you step forward to the
pool to drink where the branches of a gnarled old
willow meet the water. Almost immediately you
begin to feel strangely sleepy and realize that you
are swaying, about to topple into the pool. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 36. If you are Un-
lucky, turn to 319.

204
Just as you approach a door ahead, you hear a crack

and the sound of rushing water behind you. A slab
of rock is slithering down, slowly blocking the exit
from the room you have just left. It suddenly slams
to the floor with a crash, before much of the water
that is filling the room can flow into the tunnel
towards you. You can only go on. Turn to 120.
205
As you are about to open the door, you hear a click
and something thumps you on the back. Looking
down you see the bloody head of a harpoon pro-
truding from your stomach. Your hands clutch at
the gaping wound as you try to stop your entrails
spilling into the slime of the sewer. Mercifully,
death takes you swiftly. Turn to 109.

206

You strike the old temple-servant across the back of
his neck with the pommel of your sword. He col-
lapses soundlessly. You go to tie him up. ‘Good
work,’ says Lord Min, a small, agile young man.
‘Now I'll finish it.’ He steps forward with his dag-
ger, meaning to slit the old man’s throat. Will you
stop him (turn to 251), or let him kill the old man
(turn to 239)?
- 207-208

207
Your pitch-soaked torch flares brightly. The

WRAITH reins its hell-steed in before you. It
carries an aura of fear but you stare defiantly into the
black emptiness of its face. It hisses with frustration
and, in a voice hoarse with age, says, ‘Death will
take what is his and you shall become one of us. For
we shall return with our full strength — we are the
instruments of Death.’ It turns its nightmarish steed
and disappears into the night. Your rest thereafter is
troubled and you regain only 1 staMmtNa point.
Turn to 154.

208

The footsteps come on and from the air above youa
dull rasping voice intones: ‘Iam a spirit of the dead
and we are beyond number.’ Suddenly a terrible
blow knocks you backwards. Lose 2 STAMINA
points. You must fight the UNSEEN STALKER,
striking out blindly and hoping your thrusts will
harm it.

UNSEEN STALKER SKILL 9 STAMINA 8

If you win, turn to 250.
209-210

209

Scarface looks you up and down for a moment.
Then he says, ‘Right, I'll get the Guildmaster, we'll
see what he has to say.’ There is an uneasy silence
before he returns with another man. Scarface says,
‘This is Vagrant, Guildmaster of Thieves.’ Vagrant
isa handsome, middle-aged man wearing an ermine
jacket. Twirling his moustache, he asks you the
purpose of your visit. What will you say:

You need help to steal
something? Tum to 315
You want to steal the Talisman of
Death? Tur to 276
You will lead them to a hoard of
priceless jewellery? Turn to 291
210

Your request comes out more like a demand,
spoken tersely and loudly. Nevertheless, one of
them tells you that the entrance to the Thieves’
Guild is through an open storm-drain which leads
into the sewers near Trader’s Row. You gruffly tell
them to meet you there at midday tomorrow. You
decide to leave straight away, before you insult
anyone else. On your way to the door the gloom
darkens as two people come down the steps from
the street. The first has to stoop to avoid hitting his
head. His tall wiry frame is wreathed in a cloak that
seems to deepen the darkness about him. The only
hint of colour is his hair, very curly and dyed bright
corn-yellow. The second is a handsome young
210

woman, dressed in a bizarre patchwork of armour.
“Tyutchev, Cassandra, welcome!’ cries the barman
obsequiously. They wait for you to step out of their
way. ‘Get out of my way, Orc breath,’ you say
before you can stop yourself. With a flash of insight
you realize the brass tiger charm must be cursed.
Tyutchev smiles. They step to either side of you,
drawing their swords. Together they strike with the
speed and grace of panthers. Tyutchev’s sword is
almost as tall as you are and he wields it negligently
in one hand. Cassandra’s glows coldly. Every time
she hits you, subtract 3 STAMINA points.

SKILL STAMINA
TYUTCHEV © 10 12
CASSANDRA 9 10

If you reduce Cassandra’s STAMINA to 4 or less she
drops back and Tyutchev moves in to cover her. If
you reduce Tyutchev’s sTaMINA to 4 or less, turn to

355-

211-212

241
The Dragon says, ‘This is a grave matter indeed. The
Talisman must go through the portal. I will tell you
something: I cannot pass through the portal. As you
can see, it is too small for my bulk. You can pass
through, but only if you leave behind any metal you
are carrying. The gods have set a powerful magic to
stop weapons being brought through from the other
side. I will let you pass but, for your own sake you
must do as I suggest.’ Will you lay down any
weapons and money before stepping through (turn
to 190), or ask him if he takes you for a fool (turn to

178)?

212 -

‘Isee,’ she says shortly and turns away. She walks
off and is soon lost in the crowd. You shrug your
shoulders and walk on. Turn to 130.
213-215

213
You fun back into the room with the skylight, but
there is nothing to be seen. The rope is gone and the
skylight is shut. You hear the tramp of feet coming
up the stairs. You look around desperately but there
is nowhere to hide. Ten of the warrior-women burst
in. You fight valiantly but there are too many of
them. You are overwhelmed and slain. Turn to 109.

214
As you close with the Elves, one of them makes a
strange gesture. You realize with horror that he is
using magic. A drowsy paralysis seizes your limbs
and you are unable to move. Laughing cruelly, they
bind you hand and foot. You are to be taken down
into the Rift and you will never see daylight again.
Your quest ends here.

215
Too late. The descending rock traps you and your
ribcage collapses like a concertina. Turn to 43.
216-217

216
The boy leads you to the Guilds of Learning. You
hurry down a cloister, which surrounds a square of
tall grass speckled with scarlet poppies, and on
towards a huge greenhouse made of tarred wood
and glass. Two scholars wearing the pale blue robes
of the Sages come out to greet you. One is spindly
and bald, the other is very chubby and peers at you
through his pince-nez. They are obviously pleased
to see you and introduce themselves as Moreau and
Polonius. The fat one, Polonius, asks you to come
with them, if you would like to earn twenty gold
pieces for twenty minutes’ work. Will you go with
them into the greenhouse (turn to 182), or politely
decline and go back to the Sage’s house (turn to

273)?

217
You creep up behind the old man as he shuffles
along the corridor. Will you use the pommel of your
sword and try to knock him out (turn to 206), or
strike him down with your sword (turn to 194)?

218-219

218
Hastily, you leave the clearing. Luckily, it seems she
was interested only in protecting her cubs. You
press on through the wood towards the hills, skirt-
ing the clearing. Turn to 159.

219

As you run through the darkness the Talisman
grows heavier, weighing you down. You cannot
keep ahead of your pursuer. A flaming hoof strikes
you down. Lose 2 STAMINA points. If you are still
alive, you must fight this monstrous WRAITH.
Whenever it hits you, you feel a cold, numbing
sensation as it drains your life-force. Lose 1 SKILL
point each time it strikes you.

WRAITH SKILL 9 STAMINA 10

If you win, turn to 174.
220

220

‘Lies,’ it hisses, and lunges at you with its rapier
before you can move. A chill numbness spreads
from the wound and you feel as if your life-blood is
being drained away. Lose 1 SKILL and 2 STAMINA
points. Now you must fight the ENVOY OF
DEATH. Each time it strikes you, you must lose 1
SKILL point as well as the normal stamina loss.

ENVOY
OF DEATH SKILL 8 STAMINA 6

If you win, turn to 254.

221
You spot one of the warrior-women who you know
are members of the temple of Fell-Kyrinla. Hoping
she is on her way to the temple, you follow her ata
distance. Eventually, you come to a building made
ofa white stone, with dark grey columns. Steps lead
up to the entrance between two pillars and there is a
guard at the top. What will’you do:

Attack the guard? Turn to 234
Tell her you have a message for the
High Priestess? Turn to 202

Give up and go to the Red Dragon
Inn Turn to 24
222-223

222
‘How dare you desecrate the temple. How dare you
interrupt me when I'm speaking with the Goddess,’
she says softly, white with rage. ‘I dedicate your
soul to the Goddess.’ She drives her fist into the air
and chops it downwards. A pillar of flame descends
from the vaulted roof. Roll one die. If you score 1-4,
turn to 105. If you score a 5 or a 6, turn to 132.

They appear interested and offer you some ale. You
accept a mug and do not drink. You suggest that in
helping you they might gain a great deal. They
“agree to meet you and tell you to come to the
Thieves’ Guild at midday tomorrow, via the dis-
guised coal-hole in Hornbeam Road. You are begin-
ning to chat to them when two newcomers enter the
ale cellar. ‘Ah! Tyutchev, Cassandra, welcome!’
cries the barman obsequiously. The thieves with
whom you are sitting move quickly to another table.
The first stranger is a very tall, wiry, man whose
223

frame is wreathed in a black cloak which seems to
deepen the darkness around him. The only hint of
colour is his hair, very curly and dyed bright corn-
yellow. The second is a handsome young woman
dressed in a bizarre patchwork of armour. The man,
Tyutchev, strolls to the bar, but the woman called
Cassandra comes over and sits at your table, looking
you over. ‘Find your own table, wrinkled hag,’ you
say before you can stop yourself. With a flash of
insight you realize that the brass tiger charm must
be cursed. Cassandra spits in your face and moving

- with the grace of a panther, draws her sword. It
glows coldly and is rimed with frost. Each time she
attacks successfully you lose 3 STAMINA points as
biting cold sears your wound. Tyutchev merely
looks on, grinning.

CASSANDRA SKILL 9 STAMINA 10

If you reduce Cassandra’s sTAMINA to 4 or less turn
to 342.
224-225

224
Realizing that the whole thing was a trick designed

to test you, you make no move and the arrow, fired
by one of the women, thuds harmlessly into a tree.
They now believe that you are truly deaf and dumb.
You ride on into the late afternoon, moving from the
wilderness to a grey and desolate moor. Ahead you
can see the walls of a large city. A salute is given as
you approach the huge arched gate in the fortified
wall. The Captain gestures to you to dismount and
waves you into Greyguilds itself. Thankful for your
escort, you wave farewell and set out to discover if
there is any way of returning to Earth. Turn to 296.

225
The fireball erupts around you. The excruciating
pain and the smell of your burnt flesh tells you that
it was real. Lose 6 STAMINA points. If you are still
alive, you hear Thaum laughing cruelly as Tyutchev
moves to attack. Turn to 265.
226-227

226
‘Ah, it is a long time since we had news. I am a
Priestess of the All-Mother, the Fountain of Life.
The Druids are our friends. I trust you will enjoy
your stay in Greyguilds. Goodbye, stranger.’ She
walks on and is soon lost in the crowd. You continue
on down Store Street. Turn to 130.

227

Your legs are beginning to grow heavy as you reach
a gap between two hills. You are slowing now, and
wonder how much longer you can keep this up.
Looking back, you are pleased to see that the Elves
and Orcs have met and are engaged in bloody
battle. The Elves are making short work of the
Orcs — strange sparks leap from their hands, killing
the Orcs instantly. You realize that any respite you
have gained will be short-lived, and press on. Over
the hill you come to a verdant valley, deep in ferns.
Turn to 203.
228-230

228
You hurry on down the stairs but the old man has
seen you. Turn to 283.

229
On your way towards the Sage’s house a small boy
runs up to you and asks if you would like to help a
very clever scholar and make some money doing it.
‘It won't take long,’ he adds, tugging at your sleeve.
Do you want to thank him, but decline and go on
your way (turn to 273), or will you go with the boy
{turn to 216)?

230
You wade carefully into the scum-covered pond and
hold out your hand to the old woman. There is a
sudden churning in the water and slimy tentacles
slither around your thighs. The old woman's head
rears up at you, revealing a huge, horny beak
where her chest should have been, above a bloated
body, sprouting six tentacles. You must fight the
GRENDEL.

GRENDEL SKILL 8 STAMINA 9
Tf you win, turn to 65.
231-232

231

Instead of plummeting right down to the plateau,
the magical Roc’s feather holds you up and you drift
gently down to land on the steps seventeen metres
below. You start to climb up again, keeping a careful
look out. Turn to 192.

232
Drawing your sword, you run forward to attack.

WHITE
SHE-WOLF SKILL 8 STAMINA 9

If you win, turn to 199.

233-234

233
The alchemist gives you the Vial of Vapours of

Speed in exchange for the gold, telling you to inhale
the Vapours when you wish to speed up your
actions. If you have any money left, you can buy any
of his other wares which you haven't tried:

Barkskin — 7 gold pieces. Turn to 306
Fortunate Luckstone —

10 gold pieces. Turn to 266
Elixir of Life - 12 gold pieces. Turn to 360
Or are you ready to leave and

continue on your way? Turn to 28

234

As you rush up the stairs, the guard strikes a hidden
bell and attacks you. You must fight her.

TEMPLE GUARD SKILL 6 STAMINA 8

If you win turn to 255.

235-236

235

As you catch your breath three shadows appear on
the road before you. Looking up, you see Tyutchev
and Cassandra, with a hideous squid-like creature
hovering in the air between them. One of the
squid’s tentacles is curled loosely around Cassan-
dra’s waist. ‘We meet again,’ says Tyutchev. ‘Young
Lord Min tells me you have been successful. Con-
gratulations, you have done usa favour. Now you'll
be glad. your peril is over. We are taking the Talis-
man.’ Grimly, you draw your sword. ‘I see,’ says
Tyutchev. ‘Then let me introduce Thaum,’ he con-
tinues, gesturing towards the squid-like monster.
Its form dissolves and becomes the man with the
gold ear-ring and flowing grey robes you saw pro-
ducing flowers out of the air for the crowds. He is a
Master of Illusion. At that moment a huge and ugly
Troll appears from within the safe house. ‘Here is
Harg,’ says Thaum. Harg raises a huge hammer
ready to strike you. Is he real, or is he one of
Thaum’s illusions? If you attack the Troll, turn to 45.
If you allow his hammer to strike you, turn to 141.

236
They invite you to join them for a drink, which you
do. One of them tells you that the entrance to the
Thieves’ Guild is through an open storm-drain
which leads into the sewers near Trader’s Row.
They will meet you there at midday tomorrow. Turn
to 169.
237-238

237

Coming along Moorgate you realize that the guards
on the gate have been doubled, following the death
of Hawkana. To your dismay, a mounted patrol
enters Moorgate from Smith Street and you are
trapped between the cavalry and the guards at the
‘gate. As you slip through the gate, one of the
warrior-women recognizes you. They scream for
your blood. You flee across the wilderness, but the
cavalry: are swifter and there is nowhere to hide.
You turn and fight, but there are too many of them
and they are hungry for revenge. The end is merci-
fully swift. Turn to 109.

238 aa

As you open the door you slip on the slime under-
foot. A glancing blow catches you on the side as a
harpoon thuds into the door. Lose 2 sTAMINA
points. If you are still alive, you look behind and see
the firing mechanism of the trap. You open the door
and step into a magnificently furnished room.
Evidently the Thieves’ Guild lacks nothing. A group
of men, some of whom you recognize from the Red
Dragon, are lounging on sofas. They leap to their
feet in surprise and reach for their swords. Will yqu
place your back to the wall and draw your sword
(turn to 242), or calmly tell them that you have been
invited (turn to 252)?
239-240

239

The old man gurgles softly and dies. Lord Min grins
wolfishly. Lose 1 Luck point for your callous action.
You hurry on down the stairs which lead to a set of
double doors. A guard is on duty but she is over-
whelmed before she can make a sound. Inside the
Inner Sanctum of the temple a tall raven-haired
woman is praying at the altar, upon which lies the
Talisman of Death. She appears to be talking to her
goddess, Fell-Kyrinla. Beyond the altar is a large
marble statue of the goddess, wearing chainmail,
her expression arrogant and cruelly beautiful. The
tall woman rises and turns towards you. ‘Hounds of
Hell! It’s Hawkana, the High Priestess!’ breathes
Jemmy the Rat. ‘I’m off.’ You look around to see the
thieves have disappeared. Before you can try to
follow, Hawkana casts a spell and the doors fly
shut. Turn to 222.

240

You duck and hear the sound of an arrow embed-
ding itself in a tree some way off. ‘Oh ho!’ you hear
the Captain crow. ‘Suddenly regained our sense of
hearing, have we? A truly miraculous recovery.’
She shouts a command and Elvira twists in the
saddle and throws you to the ground. Landing on
top of you, she knocks the breath out of you and
overpowers you. Your hands are tied behind your
back and your sword is taken. From now on you
must fight with your dagger. Lose 2 SKILL points.
When you acquire another sword you may restore
them. Turn to 257.
241-242

241
Scarface leads you through a maze of back alleys
into a building that Jemmy the Rat tells you is a safe
house. You climb on to the roof and continue run-
ning across the roof-tops of the city. Soon you are on
top of a tall house, just below the top of the temple
to Fell-Kyrinla. Bloodheart, a hulking, silent fellow,
takes a rope and grappling hook from his shoulder.
He effortlessly throws it round the top of one of the
temple columns. He secures his end to a chimney-
stack and walks across on the tightrope he has
created. You all manage to cross hand-over-hand
and join him in the temple eaves. Jemmy the Rat, a
wiry man with fingers like spider’ s legs, finds a
skylight and, true to his name, prises off the bars
and picks the lock. Reaching inside he disarms a
trap containing a poisoned dart. You marvel at his
nimble-fingered skill. They lower a rope and you all
drop down to the top of a staircase. You catch sight
of an old serving-man passing a doorway on the
landing. The others have not noticed him. Will you
silence him, in case he has seen you (turn to 217), or
ignore him, hoping he didn’t see you (turn to 228)?

242
As they move towards you, one of them produces a

crossbow and fires. You duck but he was aiming at
your leg and the bolt slams into your thigh, spin-
ning you sideways. You feel as if your veins are on
fire. The bolt was poisoned, and you soon sink into
the oblivion of death. Turn to 109.
243-244

243
You continue along Store Street and then down a

tree-lined avenue called Booker’s Walk. Two very
grand buildings, built of blocks of grey stone, stand
on either side of the road. A group of young people
in blue togas, escorted by a white-haired old man in
pale blue robes, enters the building opposite. A flag,
showing books and scrolls, is flying from the
nearest building; it appears to be a library. Will you
see what information the library has to offer (turn to
346), or investigate the other building, to find out
what the young people are doing (turn to 279)?

The fireball bursts behind you, but a burning pain
sears your back and you smell charred cloth. Lose 3
STAMINA points. If you are still alive, you press
home your attack on Tyutchev. Turn to 265.
245

245
Just as you are about to enter the bare, roofless

room, a rotten stair breaks, betraying your pres-
ence. Realizing that they may have been overheard,
one of the thieves runs off across a nearby roof-top.
The other two, mean-looking thugs in brown
breeches, attack you. They try to come at you from
different sides, but after springing up the last stairs
your footwork is too good for them and you hold the
stairway, where they can only come at you one at a
time. You must fight them in order.

SKILL STAMINA
First THIEF 6 7
Second THIEF 7 6

If you win, turn to 329.

246-247

246

They appear interested and offer you some ale. You
accept a mug and do not drink. You suggest that in
helping you, they might gain a great deal. They
agree to meet you and tell you to come to the
Thieves’ Guild at midday tomorrow, via the dis-
guised coal-hole in Hornbeam Road. You begin to
chat to them. Turn to 169.

247
Her eyebrows rise in surprise. All four of them look

at you in disbelief. The man in gold turns to the
Priest in the white surcoat and asks, ‘Is it the truth?’
Knowing your story to be true, you decide to wait
while the Priest casts a spell. ‘It is the truth,’ he says,
‘and spoken from a true heart.’ The Shieldmaiden
lowers the bow and moves over to guard the en-
trance of the cavern. ‘What are we to do? The exits
are blocked and I have only the power to teleport
one of us out now,’ says the man in gold. ‘Perhaps
this warrior has been sent by the gods to continue
the quest.’ Sensing the goodness in these people,
you wait to hear how you can aid them. Turn to 100.
248-249

248

You are swept up in the talons of a great white eagle.
Your assailants are soon specks below you on the
street. Rising high above the roof-tops you look to
the south-east and see, far away, a mountain on top
of a large plateau. A voice speaks in your head - the
voice of the All-Mother. ‘That is Mount Star-reach,
your goal. At its summit lies the portal that will take
you back to your own world.’ Fora moment it seems
the eagle will bear you to the mountain, but the
Talisman seems to weigh like a ball of lead around
your neck and the eagle is forced to land in a
deserted alley of Store Street. Before you can thank
it, it takes to the air again and is soon soaring far
above the city. Are you wearing magical chainmail?
If you are, turn to 375. If not, turn to 258.

249
You hurry along to the Moorgate itself. There is a

group of warriors on guard, men and women, in
green livery. They are followers of the All-Mother
who have been given your description by Lillantha.
They wave you through the gate and you walk out
into the night. Gain 1 Luck point for escaping the
city. Turn to 8.

250-251

250
Exhausted from the rigours of the day, you stop and
draw breath. The attack by an unseen foe has left
you unnerved. You look around, then listen care-
fully in case another attack should be imminent. As
night falls you are thankful to find an empty stable.
You go in and curl up in a heap of straw, ready for
the night. Turn to 91.

¢ 251
You reach out and knock the young thief’s hand
away. He drops his dagger, which clatters noisily all
the way down the stairs. ‘Sentimental fool!’ he
snaps. ‘The guards will have heard that.’ He draws
another dagger from his boot. ‘Hurry, we have little
time now,’ says Scarface. You hurry on. Turn to 283.

252-253

252

‘If we had really wanted you to come, don’t you
think we would have told you the safe route?’ says a
thief with a scar running from ear to chin, whom
you recognize from the Red Dragon. They move
towards you purposefully. ‘This is the welcome we
give to the likes of you,’ he continues. Will you place
your back to the wall and draw your sword (turn to
242), or sit down, telling them to kill you if they like,
but they'll miss out on an attractive proposition
(turn to 209)?

253
The river winds between the hills. You wade along
it, knowing that the Dark Elves will lose your scent
in the water. After a while, you climb out on the
other side of the river and continue on your way.
Turn to 331.
254

254
Your last blow meets no resistance. The skeletal

form collapses to the ground in a heap. Allis silent
except for a sudden keening of the wind. You rest
and begin to overcome the shock to your system. if
you have lost any SKILL points, all except 1- are
restored. Cautiously, you continue along Store
Street and then down a tree-lined avenue called
Booker’s Walk. Two very grand buildings, built of
blocks of grey stone, stand on either side of the
road. A group of young people in blue togas,
escorted by a white-haired old man in pale blue
robes, enters the building opposite. A flag showing
books and scrolls is flying from the nearest building;
itappears to be a library. Will you see what informa-
tion the library has to offer (turn to 346), or investi-
gate the other building, to find out what the young
people are doing (turn to 279)?

255-256

255

As the stricken woman slides down the temple
steps, leaving a trail of blood behind her, you are
dismayed to see Hawkana, the raven-haired High
Priestess. She lets out a scream of invocation, calling
on the powers of her Goddess. A pillar of flame
engulfs you as the power of Fell-Kyrinla is un-
leashed. You are burnt toa cinder. Turn to 109.

256
You enter the green, gloomy shade of the woods.
After a while, you stumble into a clearing and stop
in surprise at the sight that greets you. A huge,
white SHE-WOLF, almost as large as a pony, is
suckling two cubs. She pushes them aside and
crouches, snarling. Will you:

Back off and leave? Turn to 218
Offer the wolf some dried meat? Turn to 52
Attack her? Turn to 232
257-258

257
You ride on into the late afternoon, moving from the

wilderness to a grey and desolate moor. Ahead you
can see the walls of a large city. A salute is given as
you approach the huge arched gate in the fortified
wall. The Captain details half her patrol to remain
on guard at the gate. Turning to you she says, ‘We
are taking you to Hawkana — she will want to ask
you some questions.’ Do you want to seize the first
opportunity to fight your way out (turn to 318), or
go quietly and see what happens (turn to 334)?

258
Store Street is an extension of Moorgate. Will you
hurry down Store Street to the end of Moorgate
(turn to 237), or, if you had dinner with a Sage, ask
the way to the cemetery (turn to 261)?

259-260

259
The cut-throats yield. ‘It seems you are a match for

us, warrior,’ says Scarface. The thieves look at you
with admiration and respect. Will you demand that
they tell you how to get to the Thieves’ Guild (turn
to 236), or say you have some unfinished business
they might like to help you with (turn to 246)?

You walk down the tunnel which turns left again.
As you round the corner you hear an ominous
sound from the room you have just left. You dart
back to see the ceiling crashing down, a set of
vicious spikes protruding from it. A slab of rock is.
sliding down, gradually blocking the entrance. It
slams to the floor with a crash and then all is quiet.
You can only go on. Turn to 120.
261-263

261

You stop a passing student who directs you to the
cemetery. You run down Pallbearer’s Row, anxious
to escape from the city. As you approach the cem-
etery, an ox-cart, returning from the market, loses a
wheel and overturns, almost blocking the road. You
tun for the gap between it and the cemetery wall,
but it is blocked by a man with a shaven head, He
wears baggy scarlet trousers which end just below
the knee and a loose scarlet jacket tied with a black
cotton belt. On his forehead is a tattoo of a scarlet
praying mantis. He doesn’t seem inclined to let you
pass. Will you:

Ask him politely to let you
through? Turn to 338
Tell him to get out of your way? Turn to 311
Attack him? Turn to 288
262

As you open the book, the scales glitter and seem to
change colour. Its title is Tome of Misfortune and the
letters on the page seem to glow ominously. You
shut the book, but it is too late. You can feel the
malice of evil magic. You are the victim of some
ancient curse! Lose 1 Luck point. You leave the
Guilds of Learning in disgust. Turn to 186.

‘. 263
You fall all the way down the cliff-face, bouncing a
few times against the rock. You are dead long before
you land at the base of a violet creeper. Turn to 43.
264-265

264

As dusk comes, you walk on down the Street of
Seven Sins until you reach the Red Dragon Inn. A
thick-set man opens the door and flings a pail of red,
stained sawdust across the road. ‘Sorry, closed,’ he
growls at you and slams the door again. Before you
can move you notice the pile of sawdust being
disturbed. Footsteps appear, one by one, leading
from the sawdust towards you. Will you:

Shout loudly, to attract attention? Turn to 297
Scoop up some dirt and fling it at

the footsteps? Turn to 348
Wait to see what happens? Turn to 208

265
Tyutchev’s bastard sword, almost as long as you,
hums through the air as he parries your first attack
with the agility of a cat. The black cloak he wears
makes it difficult for you to tell exactly where he is.
Cassandra and Thaum, looking confident, stand
back to watch. You fight Tyutchev.

TYUTCHEV SKILL 10 STAMINA 12
After your first successful attack on him, turn to 301.
266-268

266
The alchemist gives you the Fortunate Luckstone in
exchange for the gold. You can feel its power when
he hands it to you. Add 1 to your Luck score. If you
have not tried them already, you can buy any of his
other wares:

Barkskin — 7 gold pieces. Turn to 306
Vapours of Speed—1o gold pieces. Turn to 233
Elixir of Life — 12 gold pieces. Turn to 360
Or are you ready to leave and
continue on your way? Turn to 28
267

Creeping stealthily, you barely rustle the dried
leaves underfoot. The soporific BASILISK does not
even notice you, which is just as well. Its eyes flicker
open for a moment and a small mouse which hap-
pens to be running across its line of vision slows and
turns to stone. You hurry quickly on your way, lest
you suffer the same fate. Turn to 270.

268
You ride on into the late afternoon, moving from the
wilderness to a grey and desolate moor. Ahead you
can see the walls of a large city. A salute is given as
you approach the huge arched gate in the fortified
wall. The Captain tells you to dismount and sends
you on your way. Turn to 296.
269-271

269
You tiptoe forward stealthily and pick up three of
the scales which the dragon has shed. Each is as
long as a man’s forearm. Cautiously, you tiptoe out
of the cave and continue up the mountain. Turn to
310.

270
The trail winds between the spurs of two hills and
plunges down into a moist and mossy dell. At the
bottom, a large dew pond, covered with algae, is
shaded by the boughs ofa horse-chestnut tree. Your
attention is caught by a weak cry. An old woman is
up to her neck in the middle of the pool. Her matted
hair is streaked green with the scum of the pool. ‘I’m
drowning! Help me, I’m tangled in the weeds!” she
begs piteously. If you help her, turn to 230. If you
decide to ignore her and hurry on, turn to 65.

271
You catch it by surprise and strike it a mighty blow.
It hisses in rage and pain and lunges at you with its
rapier. You must fight the ENVOY OF DEATH.
Each time it strikes you, you lose 1 SKILL point as
well as the normal sTAMINA loss.

ENVOY OF DEATH SKILL 8 STAMINA 4

If you win, turn to 254.
272-273

272
‘Well, how would we know, then?’ says Scarface.
The others laugh at you and turn their backs. If you
want to go back to the barman and ask him the way
to the Thieves’ Guild, turn to 295. If you would
rather tap Scarface on the shoulder and say, ‘Come
on now, I won’t tell anyone,’ turn to 167.

273
You come to the door of the Sage’s house and
knock. After a few moments a manservant opens
the door. You explain that you have come to see the
Sage. The manservant asks you for the token. Do
you have the token? If you do, turn to 6. If not, turn
to 131.

274-275

274
You thread your way through the moss-covered
tombs and headstones. As you approach the light, it
shimmers and moves towards you, floating in the
darkness. You are entranced. The will-o’-the-wisp
draws you, mesmerized, towards a large grey tomb.
A withered hand thrusts through the earth beneath
your feet and grabs your ankle. You hack at it but yet
another mouldering arm grips you. There is a grat-
ing noise as a fiendish GHOUL staggers from the
tomb before you. Other zombies erupt from their
earthy graves around you. In your panic, you find
the strength to rip yourself out of the ghastly grasp
of the zombies — but the ghoul is almost upon you!
You must fight it.

GHOUL SKILL 7 STAMINA 8

If you defeat the Ghoul within five combat rounds,
turn to 343. If it is still alive after five rounds turn to
298.

275
‘You dare to threaten the Lord of the Skies, puny
man-thing?’ he bellows. Before you can reply he
utters a word in a strange language. A powerful
gust of wind suddenly blows up and hits you. Test
your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 93. If you are
Unlucky, tur to 112.
276

There is a hushed silence, broken by Vagrant. “That
is indeed beyond price.’ He suddenly barks out an
order: ‘We'll mount an expedition before they move
the Talisman. It is market-day ~ a good time. Scar-
face, Jemmy the Rat, Bloodheart and young Lord
Min, you will accompany our friend here.’ Some
hours later, when they have finished their prepara-
tions, you set off. As you leave, you see a piece of
graffiti scrawled in blood ona wall: There is no honour
among thieves! You resolve to be on your guard. Turn

to 241.

277-278

277
Asmall boulder catches you and knocks you off the
narrow steps. Lose 2$TAMINA points. If youare still
alive and have a Roc’s feather, turn to 231. If you

haven’t gota feather, turn to 263.

278
You enter the jeweller’s. It seems to be curiously
lacking in things of real value. The jeweller, a small
man with a monocle, is just locking the large safe
behind his counter. As he reaches for the closed
sign, before you have the chance to speak, the three
thieves you overheard burst into the shop, bran-
dishing swords. Will you seek to get in with the
thieves by capturing the jeweller (turn to 309), or
leap to the jeweller’s aid and attack the thieves (turn
to 286)?
279

279
You slip inside the huge building and walk
cautiously down empty corridors. You find a
reading-room and decide to look at some of the
scrolls. You find one which tells you that the women
who brought you to Greyguilds worship Fell-
Kyrinla. Another lists the different types of magic
and the names given to those who practise them:
warlocks, shamans, witches, necromancers, ele-
mentalists, thaumaturgists, demonists, cabalists,
spellbinders and many more. The necromancers’
Magic interests you, for these are the death-
magicians who perform human sacrifices and other
unspeakable abominations in their pursuit of pow-
er. Then you notice a red book bound in strange
multi-coloured scales. It seems to beckon you. Will
you open the tome (turn to 262), or leave before you
are discovered (turn to 186)?

280-281

280

You introduce yourself to the motley group of vil-
lains. They do not reply. You persevere, saying that
you only wish to speak to them for a few moments.
One of them, whose face is marked by a jagged scar,
running from ear to chin, fixes you with a stare and
grates, ‘We don’t care for the law, so watch yourself.
You could be dead before you knew we’d moved.’
Will you:

Ask them the way to the Thieves’

Guild? Turn to 145
Say you need help with some
unfinished business? Turn to 246
Boldly retort that their threats
don’t scare you? Turn to 167
281

Scarface laughs. They remove their hands from
their daggers and a young man appears from be-
hind you and sits down. ‘Of course we are thieves,”
he says. ‘What is the Red Dragon if not a den of
thieves?’ They invite you to join them for a drink,
which you do. One of them tells you that the
entrance to the Thieves’ Guild is through an open
storm-drain which leads into the sewers near
Trader's Row. You ask if it is possible to go there
right away, but they say no and you agree to meet
them there at midday tomorrow. You begin to chat.
Turn to 169.
282-284

282

You struggle up the nearest hill and halt at its
summit. You have a few moments to catch your
breath, before the first Orcs are upon you. Luckily,
being no more than an undisciplined mob, they run
at you one at a time. You must fight the first three in
order. The third is apparently their leader, a huge
broad brute with curving yellow tusks and a jagged-
edged scimitar.

SKILL STAMINA
First ORC 5 6
Second ORC 5 4
Leader ORC 7 7
If you win, turn to 111.

283

You are padding silently along the landing towards
the stairs which lead down, when a loud pealing of
bells fills the air. ‘The alarm,’ snarls Scarface. You
freeze. Looking back you are astonished to find that
you cannot see the thieves, who you thought were
behind you. All you can see are shadows. You are
on your own. Will you go back to find the thieves
(turn to 213), or run down the stairs ahead of you
(turn to 180)?

284
Nothing happens. Turn to 292.
285-286

285

The Dragon bellows with pain but the thick scales
on its back give it some protection even from
Dragonsbane. Its tail whips round and catches you
across the shoulder. Lose 2 STAMINA points. A
wave of fear hits you as the Dragon turns its head,
its yellow slitted eyes glinting with malice and
pain. ‘For that cowardly blow you shall die,’ it
roars. Will you:

Run back down the tunnel Turn to 335
Try to grab some scales? Turn to 398
Try to grab some of the dragon's

treasure? Turn to 38

286
Two of the thieves, thick-set bruisers in brown
leather breeches, turn to face you, while the third, a
thin weasel-faced man, goes for the jeweller. You
must fight the two thieves together.

SKILL STAMINA
First THIEF 6 7
Second THIEF 5 6

If you kill one of the thieves, turn to 299.
287-288

287
The going is difficult and the darkening skies do

nothing to raise your spirits. The Talisman becomes
heavier with every step and the pouring rain soaks
you to the skin. You are almost thankful when night
comes and you can burrow down in the dead
bracken. Unfortunately, your sleep is broken by a
wild neighing. You jump up to see a massive black
stallion, its eyes pits of fire, galloping towards you.
It snorts clouds of glowing cinders as it strains at the
bit. Its rider, a dark spectral figure, is hunched and
twisted and seems to have no substance. You can
sense the hatred it feels for all living things. Will you
run from it, hoping it cannot charge across the
broken ground (turn to 219), or light a torch and
stand your ground (turn to 207)?

288
The man is a monk of the Order of the Scarlet
Mantis, an expert in unarmed combat. He kicks and
punches with deadly force. Each time he wins an
attack round roll one die — if you throw a 5 or a6
turn to 366.

MONK OF THE
SCARLET MANTIS - skit1 9 STAMINA 8

If you win, turn to 325.
289-290

289
You step out, squinting against the bright light of
the late afternoon sun. Add 1 tuck point for visiting
the Red Dragon Inn and living to tell the tale. You
are back in the Street of Seven Sins. If you have met
a Sage and he has invited you to dinner, you may
turn to 229. If you have not been invited, or do not
wish to go, you may go down a side street called
Cobbler’s Walk, heading west (turn to 195), or go
down Merchant Street, heading north-west (turn to

394).

290
In the flickering torchlight you read an inscription
on the rectangular pillar.

Put yourself in the place of the monkey.
To the left is danger; the idle shall act.

Suddenly the three pillars disappear. You step back
in amazement. The room remains empty and no-
thing else untoward happens, so you decide to
leave. Turn to 339.
291-295

291

‘Where is this priceless jewellery stashed?’
demands Vagrant. If you tell them to follow you and
you'll show them, turn to 349. If you tell them that it
lies in the temple to Fell-Kyrinla, turn to 333.

292
A spray of brightly coloured light speeds from
Thaum’s hands into your eyes, dazzling you. Cas-
sandra stabs you neatly in the heart as Tyutchev
cleaves your head from your shoulders. Turn to 109.

293
You wait for some time, trying to ignore the grow-
ing ache in your muscles. Nothing happens. You
decide to risk breaking cover and cross the river.
Turn to 334.

294
At this they leap up, whipping out their blades, and
move to attack. Turn to 368.

295
The barman says, ‘I will tell you, but it will cost you

six gold pieces and not a silver less.’ If you have the
money and wish to pay him, turn to 323. If you do
not have the money or do not wish to pay him, turn
to 312.
296-298

296

You walk into the city along a street called Moor-
gate. Many of the buildings are quite grand, built of
light grey stone. The streets are crowded with a
mixture of people shopping and young men and
women carrying books and scrolls. Will you walk
down a continuation of Moorgate, called Store
Street (turn to 357), or turn left into Smith Street
(turn to 303)?

297
The only people in sight hurry away, not looking at
you. The footsteps come on and a dull, rasping
voice intones, .I am a spirit of the dead. We are
beyond number.’ Suddenly, a terrible blow knocks
you backwards. Lose 2 STAMINA points. You must
fight the UNSEEN STALKER.

UNSEEN STALKER SKILL 9 STAMINA 8

If you win, turn to 250.

298
You are still struggling with the Ghoul when you
see the other Zombies closing in on you. Soon you
are surrounded. A score of cold, dead hands grasp
you and you are laid struggling in a newly dug
grave. You scream as the earth is piled upon you.
You are entering the wastelands of Death.
299

299

With a shout of victory, the jeweller steps back from
the fallen body of his assailant, a bloodied short-
sword in his hand. You are surprised that such a
small old man is so skilful. Seeing this, your other
opponent throws down his sword and runs out of
the shop. You may pick up the thief’s sword. The
jeweller turns to you, his monocle swinging at his
waist, and thanks you. He reaches behind the coun-
ter and hands you a leather pouch containing 10
gold pieces and a small velvet-covered box. Inside
the box is a magnificent ruby. ‘No one can call Oliol
the Jeweller a miser,’ he says. Scarcely believing
your good fortune, you thank him and leave. Gain 1
LUCK point. Turn to 304.

300-301

300
As you walk on down the road, leaving all human
habitation behind, it begins to rain heavily, trans-
forming the dirt road into a morass of mud. By
afternoon you decide to leave the road and head
east, through the wilderness. After a hard day’s
trek, you camp for the night. Your sleep is fitful.
You dream of Hawkana, clad in a funeral robe, her
wounds still bleeding. She is standing at the edge of
the Valley of Death, her hair streaming in a howling
wind. She beckons you to follow, then turns and
walks down into the blasted desolation of the val-
ley. You wake up feeling on edge and drained of
energy. Lose 2 STAMINA points and turn to 116.

301
As soon as you wound Tyutchev, you notice Thaum
gesturing. Tyutchev becomes invisible. As you start
back in surprise, Cassandra is upon you, her sword
darting at you. Tyutchev reappears behind you,
raising his sword to strike and Thaum is gesturing
again. You feel threatened from all sides and you are
hard pressed to defend yourself. Do you wish to call
upona God for aid (turn to 330), or do you think you
can triumph by the skill of your own hand (turn to
292)?
302-303

302
You step forward and in the flickering torchlight
read an inscription on the square pillar:

Furthest from the poison of the scarab beetle,
You will find a venom more deadly than dragon fire.

As you ponder the meaning of this strange mes-
sage, a trickle of dust falls into your hair. As you look
up, the ceiling begins to descend with a roar. Oiled
spikes slide down towards you, protruding from
the rock. A crushed skeleton is impaled on one of
them. You jump forward as, with a grating rumble,
a slab of rock starts to fall across the exit ahead. Your
only hope is to throw yourself through the narrow-
ing gap. Roll two dice. If the total is equal to or less
than your SKILL score turn to 103. If the total is
greater than your SKILL score turn to 215.

303
You stride down Smith Street. Next door to a
tinker’s shop you see what appears to be an arm-
ourers. Do you wish to go in (turn to 139), or pass by
(turn to 104)?
304-305

304
You continue down Silver Street, past the jewel-

ler’s, which is closed, and tur left into a tree-lined
avenue called Booker’s Walk. Two very grand build-
ings, built of blocks of grey stone, stand on either
side of the road. A group of young people in blue
togas, escorted by a white-haired old man in pale
blue robes, enters the building opposite. A flag
showing books and scrolls is flying from the nearest
building. It appears to be a library. Will you see
what information the library has to offer (turn to
346), or investigate the other building to find out
what the young people are doing (turn to 279)?

305
As you walk across the sawdust-covered tiles

towards the door, you hear Tyutchev say to the
barman, ‘Who was that frightened rabbit?’ He walks
over to the thieves. Do you want to hurry out of this
den of thieves, thankful to be alive (turn to 289), or
draw your sword and shout ‘Who's frightened?’
(tum to 294)?

306

306

The alchemist gives you the jar of ointment in
exchange for the gold. ‘Rub it into your arms and
chest right away. It will make your skin as tough as
bark for a week.’ You take his advice. As soon as you
have rubbed on all the ointment, your skin begins to
burn. The pain is excruciating and your skin blis-
ters. Lose 2 STAMINA points. If you are still alive,
Alembic says, mildly concerned, ‘Alas, something
must have curdled. It will pass. I am a fair man.
Here are your seven gold pieces. Perhaps you
would like to try something else?’ You accept your
money back. If you have not tried them already, you
can buy any of his other wares:

Fortunate Luckstone — 10 gold

Pieces. Turn to 266
Vapours of Speed - 10 gold pieces. Turn to 233
Elixir of Life - 12 gold pieces. Turn to 360

Or would you rather leave his
shop in disgust? Turn to 28

307-308

307
You hide yourself in the bushes, hoping that the
Elves will be unable to follow your trail. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 293. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 344.

308
You flatten yourself against the cliff just in time. The
boulders hurtle past and explode as they hit the step
just below you. You carry on, warily climbing up the
steps. Turn to 192.

309-310

309

The jeweller reaches for a sword behind the counter
but you are too quick for him. You grab the sword
and hold its edge to his throat. He tenses up and
says, ‘There's my safe. Take it all but don’t hurt me!’
He points to the safe at the back of the room. One of
the thieves, a thin weasel of a man, binds the
jeweller. You may keep the jeweller’s sword, if you
wish. The other two, mean-looking thugs in brown
breeches, look you over coolly. Will you demand
your pick of the loot (turn to 66), or-ask for a small
share of the booty (turn to 354)?

310
Do you have a gourd filled with Gum of an Amber
Pine? If you do, turn to 385. If you do not, tum to

369.
311-312

311
The man is a monk of the Order of the Scarlet
Mantis, an expert in unarmed combat. He attacks
you without hesitation. He kicks and punches with
deadly force. Each time he wins an Attack Round,
roll one die — if you throw a 5 or a 6 turn to 366.

MONK OF THE
SCARLET MANTIS SKILL 9 STAMINA 8

If you win, go to 325.

312
Unfortunately the thieves have overheard you. The
youngest moves soundlessly behind you, hidden
by one of the tapestries. A searing pain rips into
your back. He has stabbed you with a poisoned
dagger. You sink to the floor, unable to move. The
young thief callously pockets your purse. Turn to

109.
313-315

313

As you walk across the barren heath, the sky turns
grey and specks of rain interrupt your thoughts.
You press on as the rain becomes heavier, head
bowed to keep your face dry. You fail to notice a
winged monster swooping down towards you. You
are knocked to the ground — lose 2 STAMINA points.
If you are still alive, you pick yourself up and find
yourself face to face with a winged lion with the
head of ar eagle. It is bent on making a meal of you.
You must fight the GRIFFIN.

GRIFFIN SKILL 8 STAMINA 14
If you reduce its sfAMINA to 6 or less, turn to 94.

314
You make a grab for some of the scales, but trip, in

your haste, over a golden chest filled with black
pearls. The Dragon turns and as you are struggling
to your feet it breathes on you. Rolling jets of flame
consume you and char you to a cinder. Turn to 43.

315
‘Oh yes?’ says Vagrant. ‘What is this thing?’ If you
say you're not prepared to tell whatitis, butitlies in
the temple of Fell-Kyrinla, turn to 370. If you tell
them it’s the Talisman of Death and you are pre-
pared to share the spoils when you get it, turn to

276.
316-318

316
‘You don’t walk out on Tyutchev!’ They leap up,
whipping out their blades, and move to attack. Turn
to 368.

337

The mellow voice of the Dragon is pleasant and you
find yourself speaking freely to it. The Dragon
explains that it is the guardian of the portal and you
tell it of your need to pass through. Its beguiling
charm carries you away and when it tells you to
leave your weapons before setting off to the portal
you do as it suggests. As you turn your back, the
Dragon pounces and snaps your neck like a twig.
Turn to 43.

318

Still seated behind Elvira, you are riding into the
City of Learning, Greyguilds, along a street called
Moorgate. Many of the buildings are quite grand,
built of a light grey stone. You see a mixture of
people. There are men wearing light blue togas who
are Sages and professors from the Guilds of Learn-
ing. Other groups of young men and women are
carrying books and scrolls. There are eight of the
warrior-women still with you. Will you jump down
and try to fight your way free (turn to 362), or
change your mind and go quietly to meet Hawkana
(turn to 351)?
319-320

319

You struggle to tear yourself away from the pool,
but a gentle and soothing voice suggests that you
fall into a peaceful sleep. You feel nothing as you
enter the cool green water. You are charmed by the
WILLOW WEIRD. It thrashes you with its bran-
ches as you sink beneath the water. Lose 4 STAMINA
points. The pain shocks you out of your reverie and
you struggle out of the pool. Looking up, you can
see two large green eyes staring at you from the
trunk of the willow. You must fight it.

WILLOW WEIRD SKILL 8 STAMINA 12

If you make four successful attacks, turn to 26.

320

The other two thieves run for it when they see how
skilfully you dispatched their ferocious friend. You
are left alone in the shop with the dead jeweller. His
eyes seem to gaze at you in mute reproach. Will you
put up the closed sign and try to open the jeweller’s
safe (turn to 341), or leave immediately in case you
are accused of murder (turn to 304)?
321-323

324
In the flickering torchlight you can see an inscrip-
tion on the circular pillar.

Behind the symbol on the first door
Lies that which you risk your life for.

Suddenly the three pillars disappear. You step back
in amazement, but nothing else untoward happens
and the room remains empty, so you decide to
leave. Turn to 339.

322

‘Where did the caravan come from - the Spires of
Foreshadowing, perhaps?’ demands the Captain
of the patrol. Where will you say it came from?

The Spires Turn to 173

The City of the Runes of Doom Turn to 123

Serakub Turn to 191
323,

He takes the money greedily and says, ‘The entrance
lies through an open storm-drain which leads into
the sewers near Trader's Row. I wouldn't go there
now, if I were you, but it will be safe around midday
tomorrow.’ You thank him and prepare to leave.
Just then, two new customers enter the gloomy ale
cellar. The first is a very tall, wiry, man whose frame
is wreathed in a black cloak which seems to deepen
the darkness around him. The only hint of colour is
his hair, very curly and dyed bright corn-yellow.
The second is a handsome young woman dressed in
a bizarre patchwork of armour. The barman mutters
324-325

under his breath and then forces his face into a
smile. ‘Tyutchev, Cassandra, welcome!’ he shouts
obsequiously. He moves to the other end of the bar
to serve Tyutchev, who orders a carafe of Spirits of
Ra. Cassandra sits at a nearby empty table and
Tyutchev joins her. Will you:

Turn away from the bar and leave? Turn to 363

Sit down and finish your ale? Turn to2
Introduce yourself to Tyutchev
and Cassandra? Turn to 374
324

You make a grab for one of the scales but trip over a
golden goblet studded with fire-opals. Recovering
your balance, you snatch up three of the scales
before the Dragon can turn round and run back
down the narrow twisting tunnel. You leave the
cave as fast as you can and continue up the moun-
tain. Turn to 310.

325
Your blade slashes him across the chest and he

slumps to the ground. You step over his body and
walk past the cart. Looking back, to your surprise
you see the monk has risen to his feet and is running
away! Obviously he was feigning death. You shrug
your shoulders and go on. Turn to 392.
326-329

326
You are nearing mountains which stretch away ina
haze of purple to the south. Ahead of you lies the
plateau. Suddenly, a dark shadow falls around you.
Looking up you see an enormous bird swooping
down towards you. Its beak alone is larger than you.
Will you:

Stand to fight it? Turn to 18

Kneel to fight it? Turn to 27

Lie prone? Turn to 37
327

They betray a flicker of interest. Tyutchev calmly ©
says, ‘I have no-time for such adventures,’ but his
curiosity is obvious. You begin to think you may
have made a mistake in telling them and get up to
leave. As you climb the steps to the street you see
Tyutchev walking over to the thieves. Turn to 289.

328

As you climb the steps the temperature and humid-
ity increase. Dripping with sweat, you look up and
see that the lip of the cliff is only sixty metres above
you. Suddenly, several boulders crash down from
the top. Roll two dice. If the total is less than or equal
to your SKILL score, turn to 308. If the total is greater
than your SKILL score, turn to 277.

329
You search the two thieves and find 6 gold pieces.
Turn to 304.
330-331

330

Which god will you call on?
Avatar the One Turn to 347
Lifespirit Turn to 284
Rocheval, God of the Paladins Turn to 361
The All-Mother Turn to 248
Fate Turn to 389

331

The river flows out of the hills into a wide plain,
where it turns north. You strike out west across the
wild grasslands. Just when you think you have
finally lost your pursuers, you notice a group of
figures closing fast. Cursing under your breath, you
realize that they are on to you again. Doggedly, you
force yourself on, but the strain takes its toll. Lose 2
STAMINA points. Just as you are stealing yourself to
turn and face your fell adversaries, you see a cloud
of dust ahead. You can soon make out a group of
twenty horsemen. They wheel their steeds towards
you and the drumming of hoofs carries to you over
the breeze as they canter in your direction. Seeing
this, the Elves seem to give up the chase and fall
back, obviously unwilling to encounter the riders.
You are thankful to see the back of them and decide
to wait for the riders to approach. As they get
nearer, you can see that this is a band of warrior-
women, clad in chainmail and studded leather
armour. Their faces look grim and unwelcoming
as they wheel around you, forming a close circle.
Their Captain spurs her horse forward and tersely
332

demands what you are doing out here, along the
edge of the moor. What will you do:

Ask them toaid youin yourquest? Turn to 101

Say you are from another world? Tum to 73
Say you are the sole survivor of an

ambushed caravan? Turn to 322
Pretend that you are deaf and

dumb? Turn to 35
Demand they escort you to

Greyguilds-on-the-Moor? Turn to 95

332
The wall opens to reveal a blank wall of rock. It is a

false door. You close it and the monkey's grin seems
to mock you. You may choose another door. Which
will you choose?

The serpent door Turn to 168
The scarab beetle door Turn to 377
The dragon door Turn to 352
333-335

333
Vagrant replies, ‘Are you mad? Nothing is worth
raiding the temple of Fell-Kyrinla for.’ If you tell.
them about the Talisman of Death, turn to 276. If
you decide to call their bluff, saying that you will
find someone else to share the spoils with, turn to

367.

334

You ride into the City of Learning, Greyguilds,
along a street called Moorgate. Many of the build-
ings are quite grand, built of light grey stone. You
see a mixture of people in the streets. There are
some men wearing light blue togas who are Sages
and professors from the Guilds of Learning. Other
groups of young men and women are carrying
books and scrolls. You realize that, unarmed as you
are, you are no match for these women and have no
alternative but to go with them. Turn to 351.

335
The Dragon makes no attempt to follow you and

you run out of the cave and climb towards the
summit. Turn to 369.

336-338

336
The sage directs you to The Book of the Gods, a large

leather-bound tome, inlaid with gold leaf. Turning
the gilt-edged pages you realize the Gods of Orb are

many. You recognize a symbol on one of the pages
as being the token borne by the warrior-women.

Their goddess is Fell-Kyrinla, swordsmistress of the
heavens. She is sworn to oppose Rocheval the
Good, God of Paladins. To your excitement you
discover.a reference to the Talisman: Some believe that
it can be used to command the undead minions of Death.
Turning the page you come to a reference to the
All-Mother, Nature herself, preserver of life, who cares
for all. Then you see a bizarrely illustrated page
dealing with Anarchil, breaker of edifices, who spurns
order. You are just learning of Avatar the One, essence
of light, when you realize that it has grown dark
while you were reading. You thank the Sage and
leave quickly, hoping to find a safe place to sleep.
Turn to 186.

337
They seem to lose interest in you and leave your

table to talk to the six thieves. You decide to leave
the Red Dragon, while you still can. Turn to 289.

338
He does not let you pass. Will you step aside and

invite him to pass first (turn to 379), or ask him less
politely to move out of the way (turn to 311)?
339-340

339
You try ail the doors, but you can only get one of

them to open. You seem to have no choice and you ©
go through into the room beyond. It is a wide hall,
stretching away to the left and right. In the centre of
the room stands a hideous idol. Its base is the coiled
tail of a huge serpent. Its muscular torso sprouts
four clawed arms, two gruesome heads and bat-like
wings. An inscription on the floor reads, Damolh,
son of the God Nil, Mouth of the Void. In the opposite
wall are four doors, two to the left and two to the
tight. Each door bears a symbol. Furthest from you
on the left is a green serpent. The next door bears a
grinning monkey; the third, a black scarab beetle
and the fourth, furthest to your right, a red dragon,
breathing fire. Which door will you open:

The serpent door? Turn to 168

The monkey door? Turn to 332

The scarab beetle door? Turn to 377

The dragon door? Turn to 352
340

‘Lam a thief, among other things,’ says Tyutchev.
‘Why do you wish to meet thieves?’ You tell him
that you have some unfinished business and need
some help. ‘Ah yes,’ he says, ‘but ]am needed at my
temple. I am not interested.’ Will you take your
leave and go up the steps out into the street (tum to
289), or mention that the business involves the
Talisman of Death (turn to 327)?
341-343

: 341
As you reach for the safe, a blinding sheet of flame
envelops you. The safe was fire-trapped and you
have been fried. Turn to 109.

342
Tyutchev steps between you. His sword is almost as

tall as you and he hefts it negligently in one hand.
Cassandra steps back, clasping her arm. ‘You've a
difficult fight on your hands, Tyutchev,’ she gasps.

TYUTCHEV SKILL 10 STAMINA 12

If you reduce Tyutchev's sTAMINa to 4 or less turn
to 355.

343
With a mighty slash, your sword bites into the pale,

slimy neck of the Ghoul, decapitating it. It slumps to
the floor, truly dead at last. As fast as you can, you
spring past the questing arms of the lumbering
zombies and dash back to the wall, knowing you
must find the postern gate as soon as possible. Turn

to 99.
344-345

344
Within moments you can hear the Elves swarming

round you. They begin driving their swords into the
bushes. Realizing you have little choice but to face
them, you stand up and rush at them with your
sword drawn. One of them makes a strange ges-
ture. A sudden pain grips you and you fall to the
ground. The Elves are using foul sorcery. Unable to
resist, you watch helplessly as they bind you hand
and foot. You are to be taken back to the depths of
the Rift, never to see daylight again. Your quest
ends here.

345
In the flickering torchlight you can see an inscrip-

tion on the square pillar:

Furthest from the poison of the scarab beetle
You will find a venom more deadly than dragon fire.

Suddenly the three pillars disappear. You step back
in amazement. The room remains empty and

nothing else untoward happens, so you decide to
leave. Turn to 339.
346-348

346

The entrance hail of the library is filled with desks at
which scribes are working, copying books and
scrolls. Reclining on a plush window-seat is a
wrinkled old fellow in the pale blue robes of a
scholar. You feel out of place, wearing armour in
the quiet of the library, where the stillness is broken
only by the scratching of pens. ‘Welcome to the
largest library in the Manmarch,’ says the Sage.
‘Choose any tome or scroll you may wish to peruse.
Perhaps I may be of assistance. What is your field of
study?’ Will you ask to read something about the
Gods (turn to 336), or ask to read about the history of
Greyguilds (turn to 196)?

347
Nothing happens. Turn to 292.

348
The dirt you have thrown splatters across an invis-

ible form. It outlines the shape of a thin man-like
being about three metres tall. It moves towards you,
almost mechanically, until it towers above you and
you realize it is about to attack. You must fight the
UNSEEN STALKER.

UNSEEN STALKER SKILL 7 STAMINA 8
If you win turn to 250.
349-351

349
Vagrant sneers, ‘Who do you think you are —a God?

Vagar the Deceiver himself? Get thee gone.’ He
waves his arm dismissively. Turn to 367. .

350

You notice that the base of the sarcophagus is
hollow and you break through it to find a tunnel
below. You jump down and feel your way along its
damp-walled windings. At last, you see a circle of
daylight ahead. You emerge on to the steps again,
some way above the roaring waterfall, and begin to
climb. Turn to 328.

351
You are taken along Moorgate, past various food
and pottery shops, and then down bustling Store
Street. They turn right down Guard Street and come
to a halt outside a squat grey building. It is the
watch-house. The patrol dismounts and you are
ushered inside. Turn to 78.

352-353

352
You open the door and step through into a passage.

You have only gone a few steps when you hear the
rattle of a falling chain as a portcullis drops behind
you, blocking the tunnel. You can only go on intoa
small room ahead of you. It is a dank crypt, at the
end of which lies a sarcophagus, thickly covered in
grey mould. You search every nookand cranny, but
you cannot find a way out. You are trapped. Even-
tually you decide to lift the lid of the sarcophagus.
The rank and fetid air, trapped inside since time
immemorial, smells sickly sweet. Inside lie the
mummified remains of a warrior, his skin stretched
taught over brittle bones. His skeletal hand is curled
around an ancient scimitar encrusted with emeralds
and an ebony spear with an ivory tip lies across his
chest. Will you take the sword (turn to 387) or the
Spear (turn to 395)?

353
Your last.blow has drawn a gout of blood from

Tyutchev’s side. He jumps back and says, ‘Anar-
chil, breaker of edifices, aid me.’ He is calling upon
his God. Before you can strike the killing blow the
cellar starts to shake. An earthquake opens great
cracks in the floor. There is a roar of tumbling
masonry and the inn is filled with dust. In the
confusion, Tyutchev and Cassandra make good
their escape. When the quake has stopped you
climb the steps and leave. Turn to 289.
354-355

354
The weasel-faced thief buries his sword in the un-

fortunate jeweller’s back and says to you, as if
nothing had happened, ‘Well, I don’t know — you're
not even a member of the Guild. I’! tell you what,
though, if you open the safe we'll give you a share.
It is protected by a magical Glyph of Warding. You
must say, “I am undone”, to cancel the power that
guards the safe.’ If you go to the safe and do as he
says —-hoping to get first pick of anything inside -
turn to 341. If you refuse and invite him to try it, turn
to 364.

5 355
Your last blow has drawn a gout of blood from

Tyutchev’s side. He jumps back and cries, ‘Anar-

. chil, breaker of edifices, aid me.’ Before you can
strike the killing blow the cellar starts to shake. An
earthquake opens great cracks in the floor. There isa
roar of tumbling masonry and the inn is filled with
dust. In the confusion Tyutchev and Cassandra
make good their escape. When the quake has stop-
ped you climb the steps, throwing the cursed tiger
charm to the ground, and head out into the blinding
sunlight. Turn to 289.

356-358

356
The Dragon says it is guardian of the portal and that
it will allow you to pass through with the Talisman.
Inits rich mellifluous voice it says, ‘You will have no
further use for your weapons, leave them here.’ Will
you:

Doas it bids and lay down your

weapons? Turn to 373
Run forward to attack? Turn to 146
Run for your life? Turn to 380

357

You are now in Store Street. It is crowded with
shoppers but your attention is drawn to a woman in
green robes, who is looking at you speculatively.
Her straight hair is cut fairly short and she is wear-
ing no ornaments. She crosses the street, and asks
politely, in a quiet but clear voice, ‘I believe you area
stranger in this city. Who are you and where have
you come from?’ Will you tell her that you are on a
holy quest and have crossed the wilderness (turn to
198), or say that you are just passing through and
start to walk briskly on (turn to 130)?

358
Its mellow voice carries across the wind: ‘I know
nothing of Death; he cannot touch me. I am the
guardian placed here by the Gods, nothing more,
nothing less.’ Will you tell it about the Talisman and
its importance (turn to 211), or run to attack the
Dragon (turn to 382)?
359-360

359
You run as fast as you can but your exertions have

left you exhausted. Unable to find a hiding-place,
you have to turn to face the Dark Elves who are
almost upon you. One of them gestures strangely.
Asudden pain grips you and you fall to the ground.
The Elves are using foul sorcery. Unable to resist,
you can do nothing as they bind you hand and foot.
You are to be taken back to the depths of the Rift,
never to see daylight again. Your quest ends here.

360
The alchemist gives you the bottle in exchange for

the gold, telling you to drink it while it is fresh. You
decide to do so there and then. It has the pungent
odour of wild garlic. Drinking it, you feel invig-
orated. Increase your Initial stAMINA score by 2
points. You can now restore your STAMINA to this
new maximum. You feel your money has been well
spent as you have been given a new lease of life. If
you have any money left, you may purchase any
other items which you haven't tried:

Barkskin - 7 gold pieces. Turn to 306
Fortunate Luckstone — 10 gold
pieces. Turn to 266

Vapours of Speed—10 gold pieces. Turn to 233
Or are you ready to leave and
continue on your way? Turn to 28

361-364

361
Nothing happens. Turn to 292.

362
You jump down and back intoa corner between two
shops, so that they cannot all attack you at once. The
Captain and Elvira dismount and draw their swords
while another turns and gallops back to Moorgate.

You must fight these two first.

. SKILL STAMINA
CAPTAIN 8 10
ELVIRA 6 8

In any round, if the Captain’s Attack Strength is 10
or more and she wounds you, turn to 393. If you
win, turn to 376.

363
‘Stay!’ says Tyutchev, arrogantly gesturing you
back to your seat. Will you keep going (turn to 316),
or doas he bids and return to your stool (turn to 374)?

. 364
‘Shame,’ he says, ‘you would have been killed.’ At

this the two large thieves attack you. You must fight
them.

SKILL STAMINA
First THIEF 6 7
Second THIEF 5 6

If you kill one of the thieves, turn to 391.
365-366

365

Their village is composed of several elegant build-
ings made from wattle, daubed with clay. A deep
dry moat and spiked palisade surround it. You are
led through the village to what must be the
Headhog’s dwelling, a two-storeyed building, part
of which is built from crumbling green stone. A
huge mud wallow lies nearby. The Headhog sits
on a carved stone throne, his muscles rippling
under his blue-black skin. He wears a red robe
fastened at his thick neck with a necklace of amber.
He seems at ease but he demands to know why
you, a human, are on the plateau. If you say that
you mean no harm - you are searching for the
portals on Mount Starreach — turn to 110. If you
tell him you are looking for a lost city, turn to go.

366

With a grunt of effort, the monk kicks your wrist,
disarming you with his left foot, and scissors his
tight foot into your chin before his other foot has
touched the ground. You go out like a light. You
regain consciousness when water is splashed on to
your face by the driver of the ox-cart. Your head is
still ringing. ‘I’m afraid he robbed you,’ says the
peasant. Frantically, you check for the Talisman,
but the monk has only taken the ring you found on
Hawkana. Turn to 392.
367-368

367
‘Good luck to you, then,’ says Scarface. The thieves

are still pointing their crossbows at you. Vagrant
leaves and you decide it would be prudent to do the
same. There seems to be nothing else you can do
except tackle the temple to Fell-Kyrinla alone. You
set off in search of it. Turn to 383.

Tyutchev’s sword is almost as tall as you are and he
wields it negligently in one hand. Cassandra’s
glows coldly. Each time she hits you must subtract 3
STAMINA points.

SKILL STAMINA
TYUTCHEV 10 12
CASSANDRA 9 10

If you reduce Cassandra’s STAMINA to 4 or less she
drops back and Tyutchev moves in to cover her. If
you reduce Tyutchev’s sTAMINA to 4 or less turn to

353:
369

369
You climb on, gasping for breath in the thin air. At

last you reach the flat summit. The panorama is
incredible. The whole plateau lies below you like a
table, a collage of tropical forests, mountains and
huge lakes, which glisten in the sun. Thirty metres
away isa rectangle of shimmering silver, hanging in
the air, unsupported. You realize that this is the
portal. As you step towards it you hear the rushing
of wind.:Looking up you see the ancient Red Dra-
gon. It lands beside the portal. Outside its lair the
Dragon is even more impressive and fearsome.
Warmth and power seem to radiate from its body. ‘I
am bound by the Gods to guard the portal. I will live
until the day that somebody passes through. It is a
shame, but! cannot allow you to pass,’ he says with
- relish. You step forward to do battle, as he draws a
deep breath. With a bellow he empties his caver-
nous lungs. Rolling jets of flame engulf you, before
you can attack him. You are charred to a cinder.
Your quest ends in sight of your goal. Turn to 43.

370-374

370
‘Thank you,’ says Vagrant. ‘Now that we know
where to go we have no further need of you.’ He
snaps his fingers. A volley of crossbow bolts find
their mark and you crash to the ground, dead. Turn
to 109.

371
The mummy ‘collapses into a pile of splintered

bones and ragged linen. You examine the scimitar
and the spear. The spear has the word ‘Dragons-
bane’ carved on its shaft and is obviously magical.
You decide to take it and you may add 1 to your
SKILL score when wielding it in battle. Turn to 350.

;
|

372-373

372
Alembic greets you and says cheerfully, ‘You look

like an adventurous person. Would you like to buy
something?’ You inquire what he has to offer. He
shows you the following things, each marked witha
price. Do you want to buy:

Asmall potion-bottle marked s

‘Elixir of Life’ for 12 gold pieces? Turn to 360
Ajar of ointment labelled

‘Barkskin’ for7 gold pieces? Turn to 306
A Fortunate Luckstone’ for

10 gold pieces? Turn to 266
Asmall vial labelled ‘Vapours of

Speed’ for 10 gold pieces? Turn to 233

If you decide you would rather turn and leave, turn
to 28.

373
The Dragon allows you to leave but, as you go, you

fancy that you see a glint of malice in its eye. Fear
spurs you on. You hurry quickly out of the cave and
continue the climb to the summit. Turn to 369.
374-375

374
They tell you their names are Tyutchev and Cas-

sandra. Tyutchev says, ‘You are a newcomer —
what brings you to the Red Dragon?’ The beautiful
Cassandra takes a dagger from her boot and starts to
toss it end over end, catching it each time by the tip.
As you consider your answer she tosses it again but
does not catch it. It buries itself in the table, a centi-
metre from your hand. Will you:

Say that you wish tomeetsome

thieves? Turn to 340
Say you came in fora drink? Turn to 386
Tell him to mind hisownbusiness? Turn to 397

375
Store Street is an extension of Moorgate, the road

leading to the arch through which you entered the
city. The market-day crowds are thronging the
streets and you look around nervously. Will you:

Hasten down Store Street to the

Moorgate arch? Turn to 237
Lie low in analley until evening? Turn to 126
Or, if you had dinner with a Sage,

ask the way to the cemetery? Turn to 261
376-377

376

The others ride away from you, raising a hue and
cry as they go. You run along Store Street and then
double back along a dark alley that parallels Moor-
gate, and conceal yourself behind some old barrels.
After waiting for some time you dare to come out of
hiding and walk carefully back on to Moorgate. Will
you go down Store Street (turn to 357), or turn left
into Smith Street (turn to 303)?

377
The door will not open. As you try again you hear a

noise behind you. You wheel round in time to see
the idol cracking open like an egg, scattering a
thousand shards of rock across the room. Out
writhes Damolh, the monstrous son of the God Nil,
Mouth of the Void. He moves slowly but pur-
posefully towards you. You fight him but he is
invulnerable. Your sword makes no impression and
you cannot do him harm. You realize your only
chance is to escape through one of the doors. You
jump back. Which door will you try:

The serpent door? Turn to 168
The monkey door? Turn to 390
The dragon door? Turn to 352
378-380

378
The tunnel goes on, turning left and downwards.

As you round the corner you come face to face with
an immense Dragon. The heavy lids of its eyes are
almost closed and small puffs of sulphurous smoke
billow from its nostrils. It is about eighteen metres
long and covered in red scales. Its long tail is curled
around a vast hoard of treasure — gems, gold, gob-

lets and vases lie higgledy- Piggledy beneath its
drowsy bulk. Will you:

Creep towards the Dragon? Turn to 115
Cast your spear at it, if you have

one? Turn to 82
Go back to explore the

side-tunnel? Turn to 22
Leave the cave and carry on up the

mountain? Turn to 369
Try to steal some of the Dragon’s

treasure? Turn to 38

379

You step back and wave the monk through. He
walks past arrogantly, without a word of thanks.
Turn to 392.

380
You run and a wave of fear hits you as the Dragon
roars evilly, ‘Until the portal then, manling.’ You
arrive safely at the cave mouth and continue the
climb to the summit. Turn to 369.
381-383

381
As you say the words and reach for the safe, a
blinding sheet of flame envelops you. The safe was
fire-trapped and you have been fried. Turn to 109.

382

As you charge at the Dragon it breathes a tongue of
rolling flame at you. You crouch behind your shield
which protects you from the fiery blast. Before you
can attack, the Dragon, roaring in anger, swipes at
the shield with a massive claw. Roll two dice; if the
total is less than your SKILL score, turn to 34. If the
total is equal to or greater than your SKILL score,
turn to 79.

383

You spot one of the warrior-women who you know
are members of the temple of Fell-Kyrinia. Hoping
she is on her way to the temple, you follow her ata
distance. Eventually, you come to a building made
of a white stone, with dark grey columns. Steps lead
up to the entrance between two pillars and there isa
guard at the top. What will you do:

Attack the guard? Turn to 234
Tell her you have a message forthe
High Priestess? Turn to 202
384-386

384
You hack your way through the undergrowth but

dense thorn bushes make progress slow and dif-
ficult. You are soon panting for breath, and exertion
has made you hungry. You must eat ~ cross one
Provision off your Adventure Sheet. You do not
gain any sTAMINA from this meal. You battle on.
Turn to 65.

385
Pausing in a gully, you examine the scales. You fit
them together to form a shield and, using the gum
of the amber pine, you bond them together. Turn to

69.

386
‘Alone?’ inquires Tyutchev. ‘Strangers don’t come
to the Red Dragon just for a drink. Don’t you know
we're all thieves? What are you up to?’ Will you tell
him to mind his own business (tum to 397), or
apologize, say you must have made a mistake and
leave (turn to 289)?
387-389

387

As you try to draw the sword from the MUMMY’s
grasp, the fingers suddenly tighten into a grip of
iron. The ancient corpse sits upright with a rustle of
falling dust. You step back in horror as the Mummy
rises from the sarcophagus clutching the scimitar
and spear. It lumbers to attack you, for trying to rob
its tomb. You must fight it.

MUMMY SKILL 9 STAMINA 10
If you win, turn to 371.

388

They ignore your threat and spur their horses
through the fire at you. You cast the Talisman into
the flames, but it remains untarnished. One of the
Wraiths picks it from the glowing embers and
touches you with it. Your soul is sucked into the
Talisman and your body crumbles to dust. You are
now just a part of the power of the Talisman.

389
You hear a voice speaking in your head, ‘I will help

you but, for now, Death will take you. What is
destined to happen, must come to pass.’ Turn to

292.
390-394

390
The door opens to reveal a blank wall of rock. It is a

false door. The monkey’s grin seems to mock you.
Before you can move, a heavy green coil loops itself
around your chest. You are thrown on the floor and
crushed by Damolh’s powerful tail. His jackal heads
start to feed off you while you are still alive and your
spirit is sucked into the blackness of the void. Your
quest ends-here.

39
Seeing your deadly sword-play, the third thief bolts

into the street. The other one pleads for mercy,
throwing down his sword. ‘Tl teil you what the
right words are,’ he gabbles. ‘Just say, “Iama casket
of iron and fire’!’ Will you try the safe, using these
words (turn to 381), or order him to try the safe (turn
to 399)?
392-393

392

Dusk is deepening as you enter the cemetery. You
begin to explore the city wall, looking for the post-
ern gate. You do not look at the headstones for fear
of finding your name at the head of an open grave.
Your eye is caught by what looks like a lantern,
hanging from a post in the midst of the graves. Will
you walk over to the lantern (turn to 274), or ignore
the lantern and continue searching along the wall
(turn to 99)?

393
Wanting to take you alive, the Captain closes with

you and slams her shield into your sword-arm.
Before you can strike again she brings the hilt of her
sword crashing into the side of your neck; you
slump to the floor, stunned. Your arms are tied
behind you and you are pushed on your way once
more. Turn to 351.
394-395

394
You pass several markets where grain-merchants

are dealing, but one small, drab shop looks more
interesting —- a board announces ‘Alembic the
Alchemist’. There is nothing in the window but a
small plate with what look like five hazel nuts on it,
and a stuffed lynx. Peering in, you see a man
dressed in a white, sleeveless robe with a phoenix
rising from flames embroidered on it. Will you enter
the shap (turn to 372), or go on your way (turn to
28)?

395
You take the heavy spear and, looking closer, see

that the word ‘Dragonsbane’ is carved onits shaft. It
is obviously magical and you may add 1 to your
SKILL score when wielding it. With a creak of old
bones the MUMMY rises from the sarcophagus. It
jumbers drunkenly towards you, clutching its
scimitar, bent on destroying the despoiler of its
tomb.

MUMMY SKILL 8 STAMINA 10

If you win turn to 350.

396-398

396
You smash the skull into splinters of bone, but

Mortphilio has not been idle. The walls of the par-
Jour are not bamboo but are made from the bones of
the necromancer’s victims. He summons them forth -
to attack you. He is soon surrounded by skeletal
warriors and you decide to run before you are
overwhelmed. The only clear way is down a long
stone corridor that leads to an archway across which
a black blanket is draped. You run through, pushing
the blanket aside and catch your breath in amaze-
ment. Turn to 97.

3 397
‘I think you're going to regret that,’ says Tyutchev
between gritted teeth. Cassandra says, softly, ‘I
think, stranger, it would be better if you begged his
pardon, don’t you?’ What will you say: ‘I'll not
apologize to the likes of him’ (turn to 294), or ‘Oh
yes, I beg your pardor’ (turn to 337)?

398
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky turn to 324. If you
are Unlucky turn to 314.

399-400

399
The thief says, sullenly, ‘If I must,’ and moves over

to the safe. Suddenly he leaps acrobatically over the
counter and is out of the shop like a flash. Will you
try to open the safe saying, ‘Iam a casket of iron and
fire’ (turn to 381), or leave the shop in case the thug
tells the Watch you have killed the jeweller (turn to

304)?

400
Before you step through the portal you drink in the
splendid view of this fantastic and magical world for
a little longer. The glittering lakes and emerald
forests shimmer in a haze of heat. The Talisman is
heavy at your chest. With a final prayer to the
All-Mother you step into the silvery screen of the
portal, remembering the four crusaders who gave
you your quest. You meet no resistance as you pass
through the screen. All goes dark and then a very
different landscape lies before you. You are within a

400

circle of standing stones. The smells, the air, the
birdsong — everything seems strange but you know
that you have found your way back to Earth. You
are a hero, saviour of the world of Orb, but there is
no one here to herald your return. As you step away
from the standing stones, voices speak within your
head. The two beings who summoned you to Orb
are thanking you for saving the world. At last they
tell you who they are. Time, Eldest Father,
Youngest Son, and Fate, Keeper of the Balance,
both Gods of Orb. As you leave this sacred place,
their final words ring in your ears.
“We may call upon you again!”

wl

NZ,

Part story, part game, this is a book in which
YOU become the hero!

The once-peaceful world of Orb is in
terrible danger. Dark forces are at work to
unleash the awesome might of the Evil One
— and only YOU can stop them. YOUR
mission is to destroy the Talisman of Death
before the dark lord’s minions reach you.
But beware! Time is running out...

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you
need to make your journey. YOU decide
which way to go, which dangers to risk and
which monsters to fight.

FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS

a world-wide sensation!

Cover illustration by Peter Andrew Jones

ISBN 0-14-031859-3

| 90000

$5.

+

