A» Los Lien
Se ee Oe =
23 STEVEJACKSON (4 -
E3 and IAN Seema ney |
Part story, part game, this is a book in sé PRESENT
which YOU become the hero! 7
Looming above your home planet is the S

vast hulk of the starship Vandervecken.
Aboard, the crazed scientist ‘Cyrus is plan- th
ning to unleash a gruesome experiment _ my
upon your world, which will destroy all é.
- life as it is known, leaving only hideous — |

mutations in its wake. YOU are an assassin” bo.
and your mission is to stop him — before it v.
is too late! p,
Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you wh
need to make your journey. YOU decide 3
which way to go, which dangers to risk and 5
which monsters to fight. | f

FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS
a world-wide sensation!

Caves illustration by Christie Actillews

‘ISBN O-14-0318b1-5

9000
UK. (1.75
AUST, 33.95
(recommended)
NZ. Sh
140°318616 .

CAN. $298 9 "780

‘~- wignesi

A thrilling futuristic adventure in which”
YOU are the hero!

'

wees F195) C0

=
PUFFIN BOOKS
SPACE ASSASSIN

‘Looming above your home planet & the vast hulk of the
starship Vandereeten. Aboard, the crazed scientist, Cyrus, is
planning to unlessh a greesome experiment upon your world,
Aestroying all fe as is known and leaving only hideous
‘mutations ints wake,

‘YOU are an assassin, ahighy-tined fighting machine, expert
fn the martal ars of twenty-seven different human and alien
species. YOU have heen chosen to seek out Cyruson board the
Vanderecten and bring his evil plans to an end. But beware
Terrifying creatures avait you there—partrebots, par mutants
all prot of the scientist's earir experiments

‘Two dice, a pencil and an eraser ate all you need to embark on
‘his ling sclence-etion adventure, complete with ts elabo-
rate combat system and a score shet fo record your gains ana
losses,

‘Many dangers lie ahead and your success is by no means
‘erlain, Posterfuladversases are ranged against you ad often
$youroniy choices oll orb led!
—
_ |

we
M

BP ND We SP ~

The Fighting Fantasy Gameboaks

THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP MOUNTAIN
THE CITADEL OF CHAOS

THE FOREST OF DOOM

STARSHIP TRAVELLER

CITY OF THIEVES

DEATHTRAP DUNGEON

ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING
SCORPION SWAMP

CAVERNS OF THE SNOW WITCH

» HOUSE OF HELL
. TALISMAN OF DEATH
. SPACE ASSASSIN

Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone
present

Andrew Chapman

Illustrated by Geoffrey Senior

Puffin Books

Purif Bouks, Pengrein Bucks Lod, Harancetd sre perth. Midticses, Engivad
Viking Penguin Inc., 49 West ard Street, New Yirrk, New York wood, LS.A.
Penguis Books Austriis Lid, Rlogwoud, Victorhy, Australia
Porgpuz: Books Canadas Ltd, 28ur Juha Street, Marian, Ontario, Candy 03n ity
Ponguin feats (M2) bid, 12-100 Waires Reed, Auckland in, New Zealeral

First putdistens 98s

Concept copyright © Steve Jecksonand lan Uringstoen, g%5
Test copyright & Andrew Chapman. 9985
Mus trations copyraght 2) Goallrvry Senicr. 298

Made ard printed in Great Britain ty
Con & Wyreen Lil, Reading
NWiteeet ie rergpt Cinotmn Palatina bry
Rowtand Phototypesetting Lat
Bury St Edssurnchs, Sulfitk

Escept in the United States of Aimenca,

this book is sold subgext ty the cundition
Chor it shall mot, By weay ef trade of oherwise,

be bent, reanild, hired wut. ce otherw ine cecelated
wthout the publisher's price cunsent in any form of
Binding oe carrer other than that im which itis
published ard withoot asineder condisun
mcloaing this comftios Being imposed
et thw subsequent purchaser

Fer
Keith A., Martin A., Virginia A., Jan B., Mark B.,
Steve B., Frank C., Rosemary C,, Sonia C., Ron E.,
Andrea G., Richard G., Kart M., Mary M., Svetlana P.,
Claire S., Stephen S., Linda T.-M., Mick U., Malcolm W,

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION
9

Your ABILITIES

usING LUCK

SELECTING WEAPONS

HAND-TO-HAND COMBAT
u
GUNFIRE
5
[RECOVERING STAMINA,
7

CARRYING EQUIPMENT.
a
ADVENTURE SHEET
18

MISSION BRIEFING
20

SPACE ASSASSIN
23

INTRODUCTION

In this book you play the part of a futuristic assassin
sent to capture a tyrannical despot bent on the
destruction of your world, You must find the way
through the mazes and hazards of his giant
spacecraft, the Vandervecken, and eventually com-
front and capture him.

Before you can begin, however, you must deter-
mine your strengths and weaknesses, and select
your weapons and armour. For this you will require
two dice and a pencil to record scores on the Adven-
ture Sheet on pages 18-19. As it is possible that you
will not complete your mission on your first
attempt, you may wish to take photocopies of the
Adventure Sheet for future use.

Your Abilities

Your ability to fight, withstand damage and escape
from tricky situations is determined by your SKILL,
STAMINA and LucK. On your Adventure Sheet you
will see sections where these attributes are to be
recorded. They are derived as follows:

Roll one die. Add 6 to the result. Enter this total as
your SKILL score,

Roll two dice. Add 12 points to the result, Enter
this total as your STAMINA score,

Roll one die. Add 6 to the result. Enter this total as
your LUCK score.

Using Luck

On occasion, you will be called upon to Test your
Luck. When this occurs, roll two dice. If the result is
equal to or less then your current LUCK score, then you
have been Lucky. If the result exceeds your current
LUCK score, then you have been Unlucky. Each time
you Test your Luck, reduce your current LUCK score
by 1 point. Thus, the more you use your Luck, the
riskier it becomes.

10

Armour

Being a high-technology assassin you are equipped
with the latest in protective equipment -—this being a
sensomatic armoured pressure-suit which may
absorb damage from blasters, grenades or similar
weapons. To determine the strength of your
armour, roll] one die, add 6 to the result and enter
the total under the appropriate section on your
Adventure Sheet.

Whenever you engage in a gunfire duel with an
opponent and receive a hit, roll two dice. If the
result is equal te or less than your current ARMOUR
score, then your opponent's shot has not pene-
trated your armour and thus does not wound you. If
the result exceeds your current ARMOUR score, then
your opponent's shot penetrates your armour and
wounds you (see the weapons list below for the
effects of wounding).

Each time you roll two dice to determine if an
opponent's shot has penetrated your armour, re-
duce your ARMOUR score by 1 point. Note the
similarity of the above procedure to Test your Luck,

11

Selecting Weapons

Koll one die: this represents how many points you
have to spend on weapons and to gain additional
ARMOUR points. Consult the lists below for the cost
and effect of arms and armour,

WEAPON/ARMOUR COST

Electric lash i+

Assault blaster 3

Grenade 1 each

Gravity bomb 3

Armour ¥ per additional point ~~

Note that you must buy either an electric lash or

assault blaster before purchasing anything else. So,

for instance, if you roll 3, you may acquire one

assault blaster or an electric lash, a grenade and 2

additional ARMouR points. The effects in combat of

the different weapons are as follows:

Electric lash — a small hand-gun which projects an
electric pulse, inflicting 2 points of damage on
your opponent's STAMINA.

Assault blaster — a heavy-duty military weapon
which inflicts varying amounts of damage. The
amount is determined by rolling one die and
deducting the result from your opponent's sTa-
MINA. Thus an assault blaster will cause from 1 to
6 points of damage against a target's STAMINA,

Grenade ~ an area-effect weapon which will cause
varying amounts of damage on all your oppo-
nents in the blast area, The amount of damage is
determined by rolling one die for each target and

12

deducting the result from that target’s STAMINA.
Grenades can be used only when the book spe-
cifies that it is possible.

Gravity bomb — a heavy-duty demolition bomb for
blasting doors, immovable objects, etc. It consists
of a microscopic black hole suspended in a time-
stasis field. When the stasis field is switched off at
detonation, the black hole sucks in and annihi-
lates everything within a ten-foot radius, The black
hole then evaporates into hyperspace, leaving the
blast area completely safe.

Hand-to-hand Combat

Hand-to-hand combat is conducted the same as in
other Fighting Fantasy books, If you are already
familiar with this system you can skip this part of
the rules. Otherwise:

1. Combat is simultaneous. Hand-to-hand fighting
is a series of clashes in which one combatant will
do damage to the other.

2. Roll two dice. Add your opponent's sKILL score
to the roll. The total is your opponent’s Attack
Strength.

3. Roll two dice again. Add your skIL1 score to the
roll. The total is your Attack Strength.

43

. Ifyour opponent's Attack Strength is higher than

yours, the opponent has inflicted damage on you
— deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA.

. If your Attack Strength is higher than your oppo-

nent’s, you have inflicted damage upon your

opponent — deduct 2 points from your oppo-
nent’s STAMINA.

- If both Attack Strengths are equal, both attacks

have missed. Start the next Attack Round from
step 2 above.

. Continue this combat until either your oppo-

nent’s or your STAMINA is reduced to zero.

Note: if you are fighting more than one opponent,
you fight them one ata time.

14

Gunfire

The combat sequences for blasters, grenades and
electric lashes are as follows:

1.

ts

‘vi

If you are instructed by the book that itis possible
to throw a grenade, you may do so. Ifso, rol] one
die for each opponent in the target area and
deduct any damage inflicted.

. After throwing a grenade, if any of your oppo-

nents are still alive, you engage them in gunfire
or hand-to-hand combat (whichever the book
specifies).

A gunfire combat round is conducted as follows:

. Roll two dice. If the result is greafer thant or equal to

your SKILL, you have missed. If the result is less
than your SKILL, you have hit your opponent and
inflicted damage on it - deduct as much damage
as the weapon you are using causes (see the list
under Selecting Weapons, page 12).

. If your opponent's stamina has reached zero,

then your opponent has died.

a5

6. If your opponent is still alive, then your fire will
be returned: roll two dice. If the result is greater
than or equal to your opponent's SKILL, your
opponent has missed. If the result is less than
your opponent's SKILL, your opponent has hit
you -—if the blast penetrates your armour, deduct
as much damage as your opponent's weapon
causes from your STAMINA. If your opponent's
weapon is not specified, then treat it as if it were
armed with an assault blaster.

7- Repeat step 6 for each opponent still alive (if you
are faced by more than one opponent).

8. If you have not been killed, a new combat round
starts from step 4.

Note; if you are faced by more than one opponent
you must direct your fire against the first listed until
it is killed, then change to the second listed, and so
on. Also, if you are involved in a gunfire battle
without a weapon, then the amount of damage you
inflict on your opponent will be 1 point per hit: you
are expert in unarmed combat as well.

16

Recovering Stamina

If you become involved in any gun battles or other
combat you vill almost certainly lose some sTAMI-
NA points. These may be recovered by taking Pep
Pills. Each Pill will restore 5 points to yourSTAMINA
and can be taken at any time. You begin the adven-
ture with 4 Pep Pills— note that there is a section on
the Adventure Sheet for keeping a record of the
number of Pep Pills you have left. Your STAMINA
score can never be made to exceed its /ritial level.

_—_

Carrying Equipment
During the course of your adventure you are likely
to come across certain items which you may wish to
take with you. The maximum number of items (not
including weapons) that you can carry at one time Is
five.

17

ADVENTURE SHEET

18

ENCOUNTER BOXES

r

SKILL STAMINA LUCK
Initial Initial Initial

Skill= 10 Stamina= 7!) | Luck= 4
ITEMS OF ARMOUR
EQUIPMENT Initial Armour = (4.

CARRIED

tr? Dine Peach far

-<+
'

~*HE | | PEP PILLS

WEAPONS

é~ aD

,
he Pee as
i’

2) Jrer
Rid

Skill= Skiil= Skill
Stamina= Stamina=> Stamina=~-
Skill= | skin= Skill=
Stamina= Stantina= 12 Staminas
i

Skill= Skill= Skills
Stamina= Stamine= Stantina=
Skill= Skill» Skill=
Stamina= Staninaes Stantina™

19
po

MISSION BRIEFING

For some time, Cyrus, the tyrannical ruling scientist
of Od (your local sector), has been harassing your
home planet with his warped minions — destructive
robots and evil creatures almost certainly of mutant
origin. His most usual crime has been to descend
upon your planet and kidnap innocent victims upon
whom, it is reputed, he practises his malign experi-
ments and surgery. In any event, his victims are
never seen again.

Now, however, word has been received that he
intends to use your entire world for one gruesome
biological experiment in which he will cover the
surface of the planet with radioactive isotopes while
showering deadly viruses upon all living creatures.
The time has obviously come to stop him. To this
end, the authorities have appealed to the planetary
Assassins’ Guild, which has selected you to pene-
trate into Cyrus’s huge starship, the Vandervecken,
capture him and bring him to justice.

20

So, armed with the latest and deadliest weapons,
trained in twenty-seven different schools of alien
and human martial arts, protected by the best in
sensomatic armoured pressure-suits, you set off,
searching for the Vandervecken throughout the local
star systems and eventually catching up with itin a
relatively isolated system some light years from
your home world. It seems to be in the process of
refuelling and taking on supplies, You decide that
your best bet is to smuggle yourself on board the
ship’s supply shuttle and let that take you to the
Vandervecken.

NOW TURN OVER

ee ee

1

Secreting yourself aboard the Vandervecken’s supply
shuttle, you travel from the planet's surface to dock
with the main ship. As the shuttle approaches the
enormous spacecraft you clamber into an emergen-
cy escape airlock and await the sounds of contact,
You check your spacesuit and weapons, then rest
vour hand upon the door release — its hair-trigger
mechanism ready to snap down and hurl you into
the void. In your headset you can hear the ship’s
computer counting off the seconds until contact.
When it reaches zero you pull the door release and
fly out low over the Vandervecken’s silver hull, while
behind you the shuttle rests like a tiny dart beside
the bloated ovoid of its mother ship.

As you skim a few metres over the hull you notice a
small iris airlock — your target — ahead of you,
protruding slightly like a black disk. Throwing outa
magnetic clamp you bring yourself toa halt, floating
lazily over the airlock, your shadow cast starkly in
front of you. After a few deft movements on the
airlock mechanism the iris dilates. You step inside,
seal the entrance and fill the airlock with air.

You are in the Vandervecken. Stepping out of the
airlock, you find yourself at the end of a short
corridor which is blocked in front by an impassable
security door. Each wall has a small maintenance
hatch, across which the legend cauTron is boldly
stencilled. On the steel floor, by the security door, is
2 small pile of what seems to be organic refuse. If
vou have a gravity bomb you could use it to blast

a~3

your way through the security door (turn to 20);
otherwise you could examine the left (turn to 58) or
right (turn to 77) maintenance hatch, or take a look
through the pile of refuse (turn to 39).

2
You reach another maintenance hatch set at the end
of the tunnel.

T MINUS ONE MINUTE

You fling it open. Turn to 120.

Through the hatch is a small room with several large
steel conduits rising out of the floor and disappear-
ing into the ceiling. It is from these conduits that the
heat you could feel through the hatch emanates.
Crossing the room, you come to a sliding door,
which you open a fraction and peer through the
gap. Before you is a large and (for aliens) fashion-
ably furnished room — odd couches and chairs,
tables at just the wrong heights and lights set to just
this side of too blue. Seated, reading from electronic
resource-sheets, are two rodent-like Fossniks; their
white lab coats and tiny pince-nez (for their equally
tiny eyes) betray them as being technical types. Wilf
you enter the room and either threaten (turn to 60)
or attack (turn to 41) these hench-beings of Cyrus, or
leave them alone and return to the access tunnel
(turn to 172)?

4

After just one hit the globe goes out of control and
spins wildly around the room before disintegrating
against one of the walls. Looking around, it becom-
es apparent that this laboratory is used primarily for
biological research: there are the usual instruments
of vivisection, electronic monitoring devices and, of
course, water-tanks and cages for, respectively,
amphibious and terrestrial victims. You find a num-
ber of items that may be of some use: a very light can
of aerosol labelled NERVE GAS, a packet of three
tablets (unlabelled) and a rather huge dead, but
fresh, crab. Bearing in mind that you do not wish to
become overladen, you may take any two of these
items. lf you want to try one of the fablets, turn to
42; otherwise you leave the lab via the door you
entered by and proceed through the other door at
the ‘inspection point’. Turn to 80.

5-6

5
The door slides open and, to your consternation,

you find yourself confronted by no less than half a
dozen robots of various designs and functions.
Several are armed. The room they are standing in is
full of tools, hoists and computer-driven work-
benches. Several dismantled androids and cyborgs
are scattered about in odd places, The robots facing
you are quite impassive, but then machines aren't
very expressive at the best of times. Will you:

Fight them?

Try to talk to them?

Assume they are inoperative and
enter the room?

Turn to 43
Turn to 157

Turn to 24

You leave the armoury and inspect the other doorin
the room where you fought the Pillboxes. Turn to
213,

7-8

Roll three dice. [f the result exceeds your STAMINA,
turn to 45. Otherwise you have made it safely across
to the western bank — turn to 214, In either case,
deduct 1 point from your STAMINA.

8
Having escaped the plant, will you devote some
time to having a closer look through this forest (turn
to 46) or just attempt to find your way out of it by
heading either north (turn to 78), west (turn to 323),
south (turn to 179) or east (turn to 84)?

+.

Poe LD, Was

t 75

~

——* —_
9-10

The enemy vehicle appears in front of you, exposing
its more vulnerable armour. You fire without fear of
it retaliating — roll the dice (as previously specified).
If you have destroyed your opponent turn to 190
now; otherwise the other tank turns around and
drives straight at you. Add 1 to your status. Turn
back to your previous location to select your move,
but ignore the directions to check your STATUS.

a SM

10

The door opens into an alcove in the side of a
corridor which runs to the left and right. There are
no arrows or directions indicating which path
should be taken. Will you go left {turn to 200) or
right (turn to 48)?

11-13

1

As soon as you drift over the landing, the ant-
gravity force cuts out fora moment, enabling you to
scramble away from the centre of the tunnel, You
walk down the landing and through the door. As
the door shuts, you notice that it seems to melt into
the wall and become invisible. Turn to 201.

12

He glares at you, then faints. You make a cursory
examination of the room but, finding nothing, head
for the door. Turn to 327.

a3
The Tharn Doppelganger is vanquished. lf you
haven't already, you may open the first sleep cap-
sule (turn to 31); otherwise you leave the room (turn
ta 126).
14

ns ; —

After a short walk down a corridor you find yourself
_ in a room occupied solely by seventy or eighty
floating black spheres — so black that they look like
holes in the air. They drift about the room in a lazy
circular motion, touching nothing. On the other
side of the room, through the spheres, you can see a
door. If you have the Pan-Dimensional Homing
Device you can use it, if you want (turn to 128).
Otherwise, will you:

Ignore the spheres and walk
straight through the middle of

the room to the other door? Turn to 382
Try to reach the other side by
dodging past the spheres? Turn to go
Go back to the room you just came
from and take the left door? Turn to 381
| Or go back and take the
right door? Turn to 34

15

‘What's the question?’ you ask. ‘This,’ answers the
alien, ‘What is the next letter in the following sequ-
ence: O TT FF SSE?’ When you have decided what
the next letter in the sequence should be, determine
the uenber of that letter (A = 1, B=2,C =3, D=4,
etc.), multiply that number by ten (A = 10, B = 20,
etc.), and that is the number you should turn to. If
the page you turn to doesn’t make sense (in con-
text), then you have obviously made a mistake and
are destroyed by the creature's disintegrator.

16
If you have either of the items below you could offer
one of them to the aliens:

The head of the drink-offering
android
The aerosol can of nerve gas

Turn to 242
Turn to 314

If you do not possess either of these, then you will
have to offer them something else, such as a
weapon or a piece of armour (turn to 206),

17-19

17
You offer the jaws to the chief, anact which seems to
please both him and his tribe. They perform another
short dance and sing what you presume to be their
equivalent of ‘For He’s a Jolly Good Fellow’. Turn to
368.

18

‘Come in, come in,’ it urges amiably, waving you
forward. ‘Tell me,’ it continues, ‘since you're a
person who deals with life and death, conscious-
ness and non-consciousness, do you think that it is
possible that one of us is simply the creation of the
other’s mind? Do you think that you could be
dreaming me, or that I could be dreaming you?’
What a question! Will you hazard an answer (turn to
132) or tell the pilot that you really don’t know (turn
to 170)?

19
He steps away from you and walks to the other side
of the room, Hitting a switch on the wall, he plunges
the room into darkness. If you have the infra-red
goggles, turn to 298; otherwise turn to 334.

os
e

20-21

20
The gravity bomb blacks out the door for a mic-
rosecond with its sphere of annihilation, and creates
in soundless destruction a perfectly round hole to
the room beyond. Standing on the other side of this
newly created entrance is a faceless humanoid robot
armed with an assault blaster. It takes in the scene of
destruction with seemingly placid detachment,
then raises its weapon and takes aim. You will have
to fight it.

GUARD ROBOT _ SKILL5 STAMINA 5

If you defeat it, turn to 300.

21
You run down the tunnel, dodging pipes and con-
duits, while the machine's voice follows you:

T MINUS FIVE MINUTES

Turn to 353.

22-24

22
If you have just turned to this location, add 1 to your
status. Your vehicle is at point E, facing south.
After checking your status below, if you want to
move ahead to point H you can turn either to 265 (to
finish facing east) or to 193 (to finish facing west); if
you want to turn on the spot (E), then turn to 216 to
face west, or to 386 to face east. sTaTus: if STATUS
equals 7, turn to 261; if it equals 6, 13 or 14, turn to
66; if it equals 5 or 12, turn to 188, (Remember to
return to 22 though.)

Turn to 166.

The robots do not respond in any way to your
intrusion into the room. They are obviously not
working. Turn to 62.

25

During your wander among the hills you come
upon the granite entrance of what seems to be a
large cave. Huge rocks press over it and a narrow
path twists into its darkness. Will you enter this
cave (turn to 210) or abandon your search and go
either north (turn to 64), west (turn to 78), south
(turn to 84) or east (turn to 214)?

26
You are on a grass-covered plain which extends to
the south, west and east, while to the north it
develops into scrubby and broken badlands. Will
you go north (turn to 235), west (turn to 159), south
(turn to 78) or east (turn to 64)?

27
You are in a choked and stifling forest; huge creep-
ers hang from monstrous trees and the ground is
covered in ferns, bushes and other thick under-
growth. You fight your way through it with some
difficulty. Roll one die. If the result is even, turn to
65. If the result is odd, turn to 173.

28

The enemy vehicle is in front of you, exposing its
more vulnerable armour. You fire without fear of it
retaliating — roll the dice {as previously specified). If
you have destroyed your opponent turn to 190 now;
otherwise the other tank takes a left turn two blocks
ahead and disappears from sight. Add 1 to your
STATUS. Turn back to your previous location to
select your move, but ignore the directions to check
your STATUS.

The container is full of ball-bearings. Turn to 181.

30
The hatch gives way into a small, hot, smelly room,
full of pipes and wiring. The most noticeable thing,
though, is a tiny, emaciated, quadrupedal alien
cowering in the furthest corner from you. Its three
eves roll as if in fear and its innumerable joints
knock. It certainly looks terrified of you — but who
can tell the ways of aliens? Maybe it's a warning, ora
greeting. Will you greet the alien and try to talk with
it (turn to 68), or assume it to be dangerous and
either threaten it (turn to 106) or kill it (turn to 144)?

31-32

31

You start the revive cycle, After a few minutes some
sounds of activity arise from within the capsule,
which then swings open, letting out a monstrous
spider-like creature — a bit bigger in the head (re-
jatively) and smaller in the abdomen than most
spiders, but nevertheless a spider. Will you fight it
(turn to 69), run away (turn to 126), attempt to
communicate with it (turn to 107), or search through
your pack for some alternative (turn to 183)?

De o rw

ial f

brunet

y.

s ee rr i —

(he security door is featureless and impassable. The
only hint of a means of opening itis given by a small
hole to the side. Turn to 155.

33-35

33

The enemy vehicle is driving straight at you, aiming
to kill with its phaser. It fires - roll one die. If the
resultis not 1, thenit has hit you, stripping 1 SHIELD
from your defence level. Add 1 to your status. If
you have not been destroyed, then you fire back —
Toll the dice {as previously specified). If you have
eliminated your opponent turn to 190 now; other-
wise turn back to your previous location to select
your move, but ignore the directions to check your
STATUS.

The door leads you down a long and ill-kept corri-
dor; everything is covered in dirt and grime, and
quite a few of the lights are missing. A sense of
gloom pervades. Eventually the corridor forks; one
of the paths has an ageing WARNING sign dangling
in front of it, while the other just continues until it
disappears into dim reaches, Will you go down the
path which has the WARNING sign in front (turn to
378) or take the other fork (turn to 44)?

35
When you offer the fruit to the chief he takes a piece,
bites it and promptly falls over dead. The rest of the
aliens are appalled, and leap at you with needle-
sharp spears; the ferocity of the attack breaches your
armour, You collapse under the wave of bodies,
never to rise. You have failed.

36
Will you engage the Sentinels in a fight (turn to 74)
or jump for the hanging girders of the ceiling and,
using them as cover, attempt to approach the exit at
the other end of the room (turn to 150)?

37
‘Oh,’ says the disappointed pilot, ‘perhaps you're
not really such an interesting person after all. Quite
boring, actually.’ It sighs and turns away. ‘I think
you should leave now,’ it says. Turn to 75,

38
The chute ends in a vast hangar, empty now bar a
small starship which is slowly drawing away from
its dock. Presently it pulls free of the mother ship
and accelerates away into hyperspace. Cyrus has
escaped, and you have failed.

if aii °
¥
|

it \ { ain _

\ ‘

<

2 ee seme

39-41

The pile of refuse, on closer examination, turns out
to be the body of a tiny, hunchbacked, alien critter;
rags that were once clothes wrap its skin, and its six
bony limbs lie tangled beneath it, A trail of blood
indicates that it must have crawled out of the right
hand maintenance hatch. Rolling the creature over,
you notice that it has an electronic device clasped in
one hand; its finger is on the button, and bright
wires lead up the arm and disappear into the rem-
nants of a sleeve. Will you remove this device from
the body (turn to 141) or leave it alone (turn to 234)?

40

You find yourself in a circular room, In the opposite
wall] is an airlock door on which is written ESCAPE
POD in bold yellow letters. Will you attempt to get
through to the pod (turn to 116) or search the room
(turn to 154}? ;

41

You fling the door open and begin firing into the
two Fossniks, They are unarmed and unprepared,
so you, being a trained assassin, gun them down
easily. Looking about the room you discover a
security door hidden behind a decorative screen.
Will you go through this (turn to 79) or search the
aliens’ bodies (turn to 117)?

a SS

42-44

42

The tablet produces a momentary light-headedness
followed by a sensation of returning energy. Res-
tore 5 points to your STAMINA. You now have two
tablets left, which you may take at any time to
restore (per tablet) 5 points to your STAMINA. Leav-
ing the lab via the door you entered by, you proceed
through the other security door at the ‘inspection
point’. Turn to 80.

As you are standing in the cover of a doorway you
may throw a grenade in, if you have one. If you
decide to do this, turn to 81; otherwise turn to 119.

The corridor twists into increasing darkness as more
and more of the overhead lights fail. It ends at the
bottom of a vertical tunnel. Peering up into the dim
circular tunnel, you can make out some recessed
handholds Jeading up. Out of the wall by yoursidea
large hoop-shaped lever projects into the corridor —
it may be an operating lever for an anti-gravity
elevator to take you up the tunnel. Will you pull this
lever (turn to 86) or climb up the tunnel using the
handholds instead (turn to 360)?

45-47

45
You lack the strength to get across, and the fast-

flowing current drags you along with it. Presently
you hear the sounds of some approaching rapids.
Unable to leave the water you are swept down
through a series of water-slides, small waterfalls
and jumbled rocks. Despite your best efforts you
cannot avoid all the hazards: you get wounded by
the continual jarring. Roll one die and deduct the
result from your STAMINA. Eventually the rapids
end and you are swept down the centre ofa gigantic
chasm, Turn to 324.

46
You don’t find anything other than various exotic
forms of vegetation and wildlife. Turn back to 8 and
make another choice.

4

The knowledge you have gained from reading the
book will allow you to inflict an extra point of
damage on the Bivalve every time you hit it. Turn to
85.

ees
48-49

48

The corridor, after a long straight, takes several tight
turns and ends at a door, Opening this, you find
yourself in an electronics laboratory or workshop;
there are small computers, holographic diagnostics
and the like set about the room. You don’t have time
to take much in, though, as a small hovering
machine — no bigger than a football, but covered
with spinning rotors, sensors and legs — rises out of
cover and shoots several electric-blue bolts of
energy towards you. You will have to fight it. If the
machine hits you, roll one die and subtract the result
from your STAMINA.

MICRO-
HELICOPTER SKILLS STAMINA 2

if you defeat it, turn to 124.

49
The anti-gravity force cuts out for a moment as you

pass over the landing. If you had wanted to stop
here you could have, but as you make no move to go
down, the force starts up again and carries you off
into the darkness. After a short period another
landing appears in front of you, this one leading off
into a corridor, You realize that it is the place you
began from — the tunnel is a ring! Will you alight
here and go through the maintenance hatch pre-
viously mentioned (turn to 125) or will you continue
with the current and get off at the landing you
passed over before (turn to 87)?

59-51

50

After a number of kilometres you see that the path
ends ina large aluminium cube also floating, rather
paradoxically, in thin air. As you get closer, you see
there is a door in the side of the house-sized cube.
You cannot see if the path continues out the other
end. Will you go through the door (turn to 88) or
turn back and proceed down the left-hand branch of
the path (turn to 345)?

51

The gravity bomb blacks out the door for a mic-
rosecond with its sphere of annihilation. When light
returns to the scene (having been banished tempor-
arily due to the intense gravitational field around
the bomb), you find that the door and part of the
wall have vanished. You proceed through the open-
ing. Turn to 14.

52

The gravity bomb flies into the Toroid’s mouth and
explodes, or, rather, collapses into a temporary but
infinite gravity field, taking the monster with it.
Turn to 332.

If you have just turned to this location, add 1 to your
STATUS. Your vehicle is at point C, facing south.
After checking your status below, if you want to
move ahead to point F, turn to 136; if you want to
turn on the spot to face west, turn to 365. STATUS: if
STATUS equals 10 or 11, turn to 188; if it equals 15,
turn to 161; if it equals 16, turn to 9; ifit equals 1 or 2,
turn to 33; if it equals 3, turn to 66, (Remember to
return to 53, though.)

54
They run screaming out into the corridor, their

chattering gradually diminishing with distance.
Looking in the open crate, you see that it is almost
full of an orangey-purple fruit. You may try some of
this fruit (turn to 388) or just ignore it, leave the
room and proceed down the corridor (turn to 118),

You offer the jaws to the chief, an act which seems to
please both him and his tribe. However, when it
becomes apparent to them that you want a part of
their totem in return, their mood changes to out-
right hostility. A few of the bigger aliens openly
brandish extremely nasty-looking spears. You de-
cide to quit the village before the scene becomes
violent. Turn to 361.

56-57

56
‘Why, yes,’ you say, ‘if 1 could create a whole world
in my mind, why not give my creations awareness?
But that would mean I would be like a god — an
unwitting god, to be sure, but still. . . you trail off,
unsure whether you have overstepped the bounds
of decency and sanity,

‘Excellent,’ says the pilot, ‘my very own thoughts!
What an amazing brain you have! We must part the
best of friends.’ He takes you by the arm and points
you at a door on which is marked a crescent, ‘See
that?’ he says, ‘Through there lies your aim and
destiny. Go forth, child of my mind? Turn to 75.

57
You cannot find any hidden doors and you do not
know where Cyrus is, except that he is probably
making good his escape. You have failed,
58-59

58
After some difficulty you manage to open the hatch
which, due to an oversight on some technician's
part, falls off and drags a large mass of high-voltage
wiring with it. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn
to 278. If you are Liniucky, turn to 93.

59
The right-hand tunnel is cluttered but straight, en-
ding after a short distance in a small airtight hatch.
Will you open this hatch (turn to 135) or return to the
junction and continue down the left-hand tunnel
(turn to 175)?

60

60

You take them completely by surprise. They fall to
the floor, raise their paws in supplication and beg
for mercy. ‘We are but humble scientists!’ they
squeak. ‘Have mercy: don’t kill us!’ You ask them
where Cyrus is, but they claim ignorance, saying
that they just work in a lab down the corridor (here
they indicate a security door behind a decorative
screen} and that Cyrus seeks them out when he
wants, not they him. You force them to strip, and
then tie them up, While they are stripping, you
notice that each wears a small, narrow cylinder ona
long chain around its neck. When you inquire what
these devices are, they inform you that they are
electronic keys to open the security doors on board
the ship. Using these keys, will you proceed
through the security door in this room (turn to 98) or
will you return to the access tunnel (turn to 172)?

61

61

The wall vanishes to reveal a wide corridor occupied
by three rather odd creatures arrayed with a variety
of domestic cleaning apparatus. The tallest one,
having what look like carrots for ears, nose and
cranium, is busy cleaning the lights in the corridor
with a long hydrovac, while the two shorter crea-
tures, looking like extremely fat bipedal felines with
backpacks, are vacuuming the floor. They stop
when they see you. ‘Looks like an intruder, fellers,’
says the tall one. "Yup, sure does,’ answers the
others. They advance towards you, threatening
with suction tubes. ‘Excitement!’ cries one. ‘Adven-
ture!’ yells another, ‘Charge!’ screams the last. With
that, they attack you, vacuum cleaners sucking,
hydrovac spewing vapour and steam. You engage
them in hand-to-hand combat.

SKILL STAMINA

First CLEANER 8 4
Second CLEANER 9 4
Third CLEANER > 4

[f you defeat them, turn to 290.

62-63

62

The room is obviously a facility for repairing and
maintaining robots, There are hoists in the ceiling,
industrial cutting-lasers and welders by the ben-
ches, and other devices for attending to electronic
problems. There is nothing of much interest other
than the head of an android which you find in a
scrap-bucket. This head insists on continually smil-
ing and offering you a wide range of exotic off-world
cocktails. You may take this simpering device with
you, but its size will cut down the number of addi-
tional items you may carry to two. Leaving the room
you continue down the long corridor, Turn to 100.

The cell is occupied by a battered old man, with
scars covering his arms, and bandages and stitches
the rest. He starts apprehensively when you open
the cell door, but upon seeing the smoking remains
of the robot through the narrow entrance he bright-
ens remarkably, telling you of his kidnap and tor-
ture by Cyrus and giving you words of encourage-
ment. He doesn’t yield much useful information,
though, but he knows a little about the pilot of the
Vandervecken. ‘He's a canny machine, that pilot,’ the
old fellow cackles; ‘worries about the strangest
things — heh, heh. Mind, if he asks you anythin’
‘bout thinkin’ or feelin’, say you don’t know, that’s
the safest course.” If you haven‘t already, you can
look in the other cell (turn to 318), otherwise you
leave the room via the maintenance hatch and tun-
nel (turn to 134).

64-65

64
You are on a grass-covered plain which continues
into the east and west. To the north is a forest and to
the south are some low, rocky hills. Will you go
north (turn to 343), west (turn to 26), south (turn to
158) or east (turn to 102)?

A large vine drifts out of a tree behind you and
tangles your legs. When you stop to extricate your-
self another creeper slides over and wraps itself
tightly around your neck. Other vines follow, aim-
ing unerringly for your throat and gripping with
vice-like intensity and strength. You are in danger
of being choked. Each round that you fight the
vines, you will lose 2 points of stamina from being
choked. You fire at them.

STRANGLING VINES sKILLo
If you defeat them, turn to 173.

STAMINA 12
66—68

66

The enemy vehicle is at point-blank range and driv-
ing straight at you. It fires, Roll one die: if the result
is nof 1, then it has hit you, stripping 1 SHIELD
from your defence level. Add 1 to your status. If
you have not been destroyed, then you fire back —
roll the dice (as previously specified). If you have
eliminated your opponent turn to 190 now; other-
wise turn back to your previous location to select
your move, but ignore the directions to check your
STATUS,

67
The case contains an electronic book. It is an encyc-
lopedia of extra-terrestrial life-forms. Turn to 181.

68

You put your gun aside and make cooing noises.
The alien just looks at you, its joints still knocking.
You try speaking to it ina friendly manner and, after
a while, it seems to calm down a bit. It starts
muttering a few words about how it is hurt. So, it
can speak! When you ask how it got hurt it shrieks
out, ‘The nasty, nasty black blobs — they did it!’ and
here it shows you one of its legs which, you notice,
is badly burnt and torn. The alien then resumes its
terrified shivering and, no matter how you soothe
it, does not speak again. You go back to the tunnel.
Turn to 163.

69-70

You seem to take the beast by surprise; if looks at
you with consternation in its eight eyes while you
shoot at it. After hitting it once or twice it scuttles
back into its sleep capsule, shutting the door after it.
If you haven't already, you can revive the accupant
of the second capsule (turn to 274); otherwise you
leave the room {turn to 126).

70

You make good time. The path curves for a bit and
then ends in a massive grey wall, which seems to
extend down towards the alien countryside. Going
through the door at the end of the path you find
yourself in what is obviously a security nexus. Two
dome-headed guards, dressed in black with match-
ing leather straps, boots and holsters, are seated at a
wide console, engrossed in a direct telecast from
Epsilon-Indi of zero-G fangball which is showing on
all ten security monitors in the room. The guards
leap to their collective feet when they see you, shine
the tops of their scalps and take up assertive post-
ures.

"Who are you?’ they ask suspiciously. Will you fight
them (turn to 108), attempt to bluff them into think-
ing you are part of the ship’s crew (furn to 146), or
look into your pack for some other means of over-
coming this obstacle (turn to 184)?
7-72

71

To your dismay, all but two of the simulacra spring
blasters from their chests, legs, from under their
wings and other unlikely places. You will have to
fight them all! They attack you simultaneously.

SKILL STAMINA

First SIMULACRUM 8 3
Second SIMULACRUM 8 3
Third SIMULACRUM 7 3
Fourth SIMULACRUM 6 2
Fifth SIMULACRUM 6 2
Sixth SIMULACRUM + 2

In the unlikely event that you defeat them, turn to
329.

72

The tunnel is narrow and circular in cross-section,
As you craw! along it you notice, every two metres
or so, a ring which appears to be a type of capacitor.
The academic interest sparked by this observatian is
short-lived. You notice that all the air in the tunnel
has just been evacuated and that the rings — hun-
dreds stretching to front and rear — have started
glowing. Recognition comes instantly ~ you are ina
Mu-Meson projector. The rings flash, sending Mu-
Mesons flying down the tunnel, which crash into
you and fry you. This is the end of your adventure.

73-75

If you have just turned to this location, add 1 to your
status. Your vehicle is at point G, facing north.
After checking your status below, if you want to
move ahead to point D, turn to 374; if you want to
turn on the spot to face east, turn to 355. STATUS: if
STATUS equals 7 or 16, turn to 188; ifit equals g or 10,
turn to 123; if it equals 8, turn to 66. (Remember to
return to 73, though.)

74
As you are quite a distance from the robots you may
throw a grenade — if you have one. They fire at you
simultaneously.

SKILL STAMINA
First SENTINEL 8 9
Second SENTINEL 8 9

If you defeat them, turn to 351.

75
The bridge has three doors leading from it; one is
marked witha star, another with a crescent, and the
third has the legend computer stencilled on it.
Which will you go through: the star door (turn to
189), the crescent door (turn to 208) or the third door
(turn to 113)?

76-77

As soon as you press the buttons an orange light
starts to swim around you. Looking up at Cyrus you
can see him laughing hysterically. Something is
going wrong: the orange light is concentrating on
you and especially on the homing device. Finally it
reaches a crescendo of brightness, and the homing
device collapses into an impenetrable black hole,
sucking you along with it. Pity that you'd never
heard that Cyrus was the inventor of a Pan-
Dimensional Collapser. You have failed.

This hatch opens easily to reveal a long, dark access
tunnel crammed with conduits and aluminium lat-
tice-work cutting through the ship, You climb into it
and work your way slowly forwards, coming, even-
tually, to another maintenance hatch through
which you can hear a muffled gurgling voice. The
tunnel leads on into the darkness. Will you open the
hatch (turn to 103) or continue down the tunnel
(turn to 134)?

78-81
78

You are on a grass-covered plain which rolls on into
the north. To the west and south you can see a
blue-green forest, while to the east some low, rocky
hills rise out of the grass, Will you go north (furn to
26), west (turn to i121), east (turn to 158) or south
(turn to 359)?

9
The door is featureless and impassable. The only
clue to a means of opening it is a small hole beside it.
Will you search the twoaliens for a possible solution
to the door (turn to 117) or will you return to the
access tunnel (turn to 172)?

The door opens on to a long, light corridor. Follow-
ing it, you eventually see another security door on
your left. Will you open this (turn to 137) or continue
down the corridor (turn to 398)?

81
The blast knocks the robots fo the floor like skittles.
As they do not move or show any activity you enter
the room. Turn to 62.

82-84

82

If you have just turned to this location, add 1 to your
STATUS, Your vehicle is at point E, facing north.
After checking your status below, if you want to
move ahead to point B, you can turn either to 167 (to
finish facing west) or to 331 (to finish facing east); if
you want to turn on the spot (E)} then turn to 216 to
face west, or to 386 to face east. sratus: if sTaTUS
equals 4 or 11, turn tog; ifit equals 5 or 12, turn to 33;
if it equals 6, 13 or 14, turn to 66, (Remember to
return to 82, though.)

You are on a grass-covered plain which continues
into the north and west. To the east and south are
forests. Will you go north (turn to 341), west (turn to
250), south (turn to 27) or east (turn to 121)?

84
You are ona grass-covered plain which rolls into the
south and east. To the north low, rocky hills rise,
and to the west is a forest. Will you go north (turn to
158), west (turn to 359), south (turn to 306) or east
(turn to 122)?

85
You engage it in hand-to-hand combat.
BIVALVE SKILL 9 STAMINA 8

if you defeat it, turn to 182.

86
When you pull the lever, the floor drops away from
beneath you, plunging you into a garbage-disposal
chute from which you are eventually ejected into
deep space. You drift away from the Vanderveckert
towards a slow death by suffocation.

87
You drift past the corridor and back into darkness.
Presently the other landing appears. Turn to 11.

88-90

88

Opening the door, you discover that the cube is a
heavily insulated room containing about a hundred
cryogenic sleep capsules —large white sarcophagi in
row after row of frost-encrusted silence, Closer
examination reveals that only two of these capsules
are currently in use. Will you revive one of the
occupants of these (turn to 164) or leave the room
alone (turn to 126)?

)

‘Wrongo, buster,’ says the first. ‘Tough, Chuck,’
says the second. Little panels flick open in their
bodies, revealing multiple blasters. You will have to
fight them, Turn to 71.

go

You walk slowly forwards. As a sphere approaches,
you attempt to dadge to one side. It follows. You
jump back but even more of the globes dive at you.
For all your gyrating you fail to avoid contact: a
sphere touches, bursts and engulfs you in a deadly
black flame which sears your suit off and blasts you
into oblivion. You have failed.

92-93

91
If you have just turned to this location, add 1 to your
status. Your vehicle is at point B, facing south.
After checking your status below, if you want to
move ahead to point E, tur to 22; if you want to
turn on the spot to face west, turn to 167; if you want
to turn on the spot to face east, turn to 331. STATUS:
if STATUS equals 4, 5, 11 Or 12, turn to 66; ifitequals 3
or 10, turn to 188; if it equals 6 or 7, turn to 123; if it

equals 13 or 14, turn to 176. (Rernember to return to

91, though.)

g2

The squirrel-thing sits next to the extra-terrestrial
and says, in a clear musical voice; ‘See that jerk
standing in front of you? He’s a tightwad and a
dummy —I highly recommend that you blast him.’
Not much help there. Will you quickly offer to
answer the creature’s question (turn to 15) or attack
it instead (turn to 383)?

You are a trifle slow in leaping backwards and thus
get lashed by a 77,000-volt cable, Sparks cascade off
your pressure-suit as it absorbs the current. Lose 1
ARMOUR point. This hatch is obviously impassable,
50 you turn your attention to the other maintenance
hatch. Turn to 77.

94-97

94
You fire at it, your blaster tearing gaping holes in its

beautiful chromium shell. It slumps against the
control panel and looks at you with (perhaps) a
quizzical expression. ‘What a strange person.” It
crashes to the floor and bursts into flames. Turn to

75:

95
You fire at Cyrus’s Waldo.
CYRUS SKILL 9
If you defeat him, turn to 400.

STAMINA 12

The boat handles well and is obviously very tough.
You follow the river westwards, hardly having to
paddle, except to steer, because of the strong cur-
rent. Eventually the river describes a wide arc to the
south and the sounds of approaching rapids be-
come apparent. The current quickens. If you decide
to beach the craft, you can land on either the west
bank (turn to 214) or the east bank (turn to 250);
alternatively, you can shoot the rapids (turn to 287).

97
You find the central of the three doors to be locked
and impassable, whereas the doors to the left and
right will open. If you havea gravity bomb, you may
be able to blast your way through the central door
(turn to 51); otherwise you can take either the left
door (turn to 381) or the right door (turn to 34).
98-100

The door opens on toa long, well-lit corridor. After
proceeding down this for a hundred metres or so,
you come across a sliding door on the left, while the
corridor continues into the distance. Will you open
the door (turn to 174) or keep following the corridor
(turn to 229)?

99
Stepping over to the cage, you unlatch the door and,

opening it enough to stick your arm in, reach

around for one of the furry critters. As you do this, a
number of the little fellows start mishing at the crack
in the door. You try to push them back, but before
you know it, a whole save of them have escaped
from the cage and are frantically dashing out into
the corridor, When you try to catch them, things go
from bad to worse, as the rest of them rush out of the
cage and run screaming around the room. You
forget about getting them back into the cage. Will
you concentrate on catching just one of them (turn
to 379) or let them all go (turn to 54)?

100
The corridor continues onwards, eventually leading
you to another door on the left. Will you open the
door (turn to 138) or press on down the corridor
(turn to 267)?

101—103
101
You fight the creature in hand-to-hand combat.
SCALLOPIAN FANG SKILL

You may runaway from the beast at any time for the
automatic loss of 2 points of srAMINA, If you choose
to run away, turn to 139. If you defeat it, turn to 196.

STAMINA 10

102
You are ona grass-covered plain which rolls on in all
directions. Will you go north (turn to 253), west
(turn to 64), south (turn to 214) or east (turn to 178)?

The hatch Jeads into a small lock-up occupied by a
faceless humanoid robot armed with an assault
blaster and guarding two cells — the gurgling voice
you heard is emanating from the first of these. The
robot does not seem to have noticed your intrusion.
Will you ignore the room and continue up the
tunnel (turn to 134} or attempt to destroy the robot
(turn to 228}? Alternatively, you could attract the
robot's attention and try to engage it in a conversa-
tion concerning what it is guarding (turn to 192).
104-106

104
You are on a grass-covered plain which continues
into the west. To the north and east are forests and
in the south some low hills rise. Will you go north
(turn to 27), west (turn to 371), south (turn to 289) or
east (turn to 115)?

105
The cardboard packet contains a deck of playing-
cards, Turn to 181.

106
The alien just shrinks even further into the corner. It
says nothing and does nothing, so, seeing little to be
gained from this fruitless activity, you go back to the
tunnel. Turn to 163.

107-108

107

You wave your arms around, roll your eyes and
make clicking insect noises — but you soon stop
when you remember that spiders often eat insects.
The spider, meanwhile, has been watching your
antics very closely. “Very nice,’ it says, evidently
thinking you were dancing for it. Turn to 145.

108

As you are standing in the cover of a doorway, you
may throw a grenade in at them — however, as they
have a console for cover, deduct 1 from the damage
result of the blast (thus the grenade will do o to 5
points of damage). If the grenade fails to kill them,
they will shoot at you simultaneously, whereas you
may fire at only one of them ata time.

SKILL STAMINA
First SECURITY GUARD 6 4
Second SECURITY GUARD 6 4

If you defeat them, turn to 203.

109-110

109

The exit leads you down a corridor and into a wide
circular raom whose floor-space is almost complete-
ly taken up by a deep, still pool; the only areas not
covered with water are a path leading around the
edge of the room and a very narrow bridge without
handrails which passes over the middle of the pool.
Both of these lead from where you stand to another
opening on the other side of the room, Will you
cross the room by taking the bridge (turn to 147) or
the path (turn to 185)?

110

If you have just turned to this location, add 1 to your
status. Your vehicle is at point F, facing north,
After checking your status below, if you want to
move ahead to point C, turn to 365; if you want to
turn on the spot to face west, turn to 391. STATUS: if
STATUS equals 3, turn to 176; if it equals 1 or 14, turn
to 188; if it equals 2 or 15, turn to 66, (Remember to
return to 110, though.)

111-113

111

The squirre]-thing sits in front of the extra-terrestrial
and begins to speak to it in a clear musical voice:
‘Let's get down to business. First I will outline my
postulates, One: A is greater than B which is greater
than C and so forth. Two: A squared is greater than
B squared which is greater than C squared and so
forth. Three: the square root of Ais. , .’ The extra-
terrestrial becomes deeply engrossed in the little
fellow’s rapid and increasingly complex chatter,
finally becoming so distracted that you find the
opportunity to slip past the two and examine the
three doors beyond. Turn to 97.

112

A blast from the Sentinels smashes through one of
the thin aluminium slats you are standing on and
hits you. Deduct 2 points from your sTaMINA. If
this hasn’t killed you, you continue to run along the
gantry towards the exit. Turn to 207.

113

The door does indeed lead to a computer. There
before you is a large room filled to capacity with still
white cabinets, disk drives and air-conditioning.
You're rather surprised to find that the Vandervecken
is controlled by something so primitive. Notevenan
organic memory! Not even cryogenic cooling!

As you walk through the room you notice another
door. Will you go through this door immediately
(turn to 208) or will you wreak a bit of havoc on the
ship's computer first by shooting at it (turn to 151)?

114-116

114
You take the cylinder of bearings, open it and roll
the contents across the floor towards Cyrus’s Wal-
do, making the device a bit unsteady on its feet, You
will have to fight Cyrus, but reduce his sKiLu by 1
point. Turn to 95.

115
You are in an extensive forest of very tall bluish
trees, all covered by extremely long thorns, Will you
go north (turn to 323}, west (turn to 104), south (turn
to 142) or east (turn to 179)?

116

With just a minute to spare, you open the door of
the escape pod and slide into the crash couch. You
desperately slam the launch button and feel the
gratifying sensation of your departure. You have
escaped! But your mission to capture Cyrus was a
complete failure, and when the Vandervecken ex-
plodes, the deadly viruses meant for your home
planet will be scattered far and wide.

117-119

117

You search the bodies but find nothing of any
possible use or interest other than that each of the
Fossniks carries a small, narrow cylinder on a long
chain around its neck. Each of the cylinders has src
stencilled on it in tiny letters. You take one. If you
have already examined the security door, turn to
155; if you want to look at it now, turn to 32.
Otherwise you return through the sliding door to
the access tunnel {turn to 172).

118
The corridor, after another hundred metres, comes
to a dead end. On the wall responsible for sealing
the passageway off are two large square buttons
side by side, Will you press the left one (turn to 23),
the right one (turn to 61), or both together (turn to
156)?

119

You fire at the robots, your blaster punching holes
into their inanimate shells. They do not respond or
fight back. Realizing that they must be here for
repairs, you cease firing and enter the room, Turn to
62.
120-123

120
You find yourself in a circular room. In the opposite
wall is an airlock door on which is written ESCAPE
pop in bold yellow letters. Leaping forward, you
attempt to open it. The machine voice counts down:
6...5...4...Turnto154.

121
You are in a densely packed forest of very tall,
thorn-covered trees. The forest stretches as far as
you can see in all directions. Will you go north (turn
to 159), west (turn to 83), south (turn to 323) or east
(turn to 78)?

122
You are on the west side of a vast, impassable chasm
which runs to the north and south. In the bottom of
this chasm is a river. The plain you are on extends
into the north, south and west; to the east you can
see the other side of the chasm. Will you go north
(turn to 214), south (turn to 252) or west (turn to 84)?

123

The enemy vehicle is in front of you, exposing its
more vulnerable armour. You fire without fear of it
retaliating — roll the dice (as previously specified). If
you have destroyed your opponent turn to 190 Now;
otherwise the other tank takes a nght turn two
blocks ahead and disappears from sight. Add 1 to
your STATUS. Turn back to your previous location to
select your move, but ignore the directions to check
your STATUS,

124

124

The Microhelicopter crashes to the floor and ex-
plodes into flames. The blaze quickly spreads to a
nearby computer and then a bank of instruments —it
looks as though the whole room could soon be a
raging furnace. You will not have long to search it.
You race about, examining various items as the heat
becomes more and more intense. Eventually, fear-
ing irreparable damage to your spacesuit, you are
forced to leave via the door you entered by. Howev-
er, just before leaving you manage to snatch up tivo
of the items that you had been examining. Choose
two items from this list:

A plastic cylinder that seems to be full of bearings.

A light plastic case about the size of a packet
calculator.

An unopened cardboard packet with an embla-
zoned red heart.

A small bottle of black liquid,

Having written down the two items you have
chosen, turn to 162.

125-128

125

Behind the hatch is a dark and cramped access
tunnel winding into the bowels of the Vanderveckert.
You crawl into and along it, twisting, clambering
and losing all sense of direction in the gloom. Pre-
sently, you come across another maintenance hatch
in the side of the tunnel. Will you open this (turn to
30) or continue down the tunnel (turn to 163)?

126
The only exit from the room is through the door you
entered by. Going through this, you trudge the
kilometres back along the airborne path, past the
T-junction and down the other, left-hand route.
Turn to 345.

127
You are ona grass-covered plain which rolls on in all
directions, Will you go north (tum to 197), west
(turn to 233}, south (turn to 250) or east (turn to 341)?

128
An orange glow pervades the room, reflecting off
everything except the spheres which remain im-
placably black. Little doors materialize in front of
each sphere and swallow them as they drift over
their thresholds; within seconds the entire room is
bereft of the globes. The doors evaporate, leaving
you easy access to the other side of the room. Before
you can stroll across, however, the room vanishes
and you find yourself floating in a starry void, light
years from anywhere. A stone tablet drifts slowly

129-130

into view. It is engraved: ‘We eliminated seventy-
seven spheres of annihilation on your account. As
you do not have the means of paying your bill for
this service we have taken the liberty of foreclosing
and transporting you to this place. Sorry.’

The tablet drifts away, leaving you to spin in the
void. You have failed.

129

The tunnel is short, ending in another, but wider,
tunnel. You clamber down into this and walk along
a bit, becoming aware shortly of a dull vibration in
the floor. You stoop to the ground to feel with your
gloved hand, At this moment a high-speed intra-
vessel transit shuttle tears around a corner in the
tunnel and ploughs straight into you at over three
hundred kilometres per hour, killing you instantly.

130

If you have just turned to this location, add 1 to your
STATUS. Your vehicle is at point D, facing south.
After checking your status below, if you want to
move ahead to point G, turn to 355; if you want to
turn on the spot to face east, turn to 380. status: if
STATUS equals 8, turn to 33; if it equals g, turn to 66.
(Remember to return to 130, though.)

131-132

131
The door opens into a long room occupied by two
robot Sentinels flanking the exit at the far end, As
you enter, they open fire with a blaze of darting,
lasers. You duck back into the cover of the doorway
and contemplate how to get past them. The two
Sentinels are heavily armoured saucer-shaped de-
vices which float about a third of a metre above the
floor and which will almost certainly put up very
stiff resistance. Glancing back into the room for a
moment, you notice that the ceiling is quite low and
constructed in an open criss-cross gantry design
which runs the entire length of the room, If you
have read the book on robotics, turn to 169; other-
wise turn to 36.

132
‘| suppose it might be possible,’ you reply, hesis-
tantly. ‘Well then,’ says the robot, excited, ‘obvious-
ly you think that you are conscious, so we'll take
that as being axiomatic, Given this, do you think
that even though I'm a creation of your own mind 1
might be able to have conscious experiences with-
out your conscious knowledge of such events?
Could I be a sort of sub-self of you?’ Will you tell the
robot that you haven’t the foggiest idea of what it’s
talking about (turn to 37) or run the risk of seriously
offending it by making a very possibly irrelevant
answer (turn to 56)?

133-135

133
You find a secret panel by twisting one of the
paintings that Cyrus has hanging on the walls. ft
pops open, revealing a chute. You dive in and slide
down in darkness. Did you befriend the robot on
the ship’s bridge or shoot at the ship’s ageing com-
puter? If so, turn to 171; otherwise turn to 38,

134

A few metres down thee sania you find another
small hatch, Listening, you can hear nothing — the
hatch just feels rather warm. You may continue
along the access tunnel (turn to 172) or open the
hatch (turn to 3).

135

The hatch gives way easily, opening into an octa-
gonal room full of electronic circuitry in large banks
running from floor to ceiling. There is little room left
among all this paraphernalia for you to squeeze in,
but somehow you manage. The room is a dead end
with no secrets to give away. Your only discovery is
some graffiti next to the hatch: ! hate Cyrus. Perhaps
there is some dissatisfaction among the crew?
Pondering this, you leave the room and head back
to the junction and down the left-hand passage.
Turn to 175.

if you have just turned to this location, add 1 to your
status. Your vehicle is at point F, facing south,
After checking your status below, if you want to
move ahead to point I, turn to 277; if you want to
turn on the spot to face west, turn to 391. STATUS: if
STATUS equals 14, turn to 188; if it equals 16, turn to
9; if it equals 1, turn to 33; if it equals 2 or 15, turn to
66. (Remember to return to 136, though.)

137

The door opens to reveal a comfortable-looking
room, whose walls are completely lined with
ancient bound books, microfilms, electronic re-
source-sheets and journals. On a fable in the centre
of the room you find three microfilm volumes that
have been left out, presumably for someone to read,
One is on the nervous systems of molluscs, the
second is about neurotoxins and the third is an
article on robotics. They are all possibly relevant,
but you only have time to peruse one of them,
Which will it be? Write down on your Adventure
Steet which volume you choose to read, Having
completed this you return to the corridor and pro-
ceed along it. Turn to 398,

ee
138-140

138
Through the door is a room with row after row of
pressure-suits suspended from bright chromium
, tails. As you step across the threshold, a black disk
the size of a plate cuts from behind one of the rows
and flies at you with tremendous speed. You duck
at the last moment but the razor-sharp edge of the
homicidal device slashes one of your helmet anten-
nae off. It banks sharply and comes back for another
pass, aiming directly for your throat. You fire at it.

RAZOR DISK SKILL STAMINA 1

if you destroy it, turn to 195.

139
You run from the cave with the beast in hot pursuit.

In your efforts to outdistance it, you lose 2 points of
STAMINA, Which way will you go now — north (turn
to 64), west (turn to 78), south (turn to 84) or east
(turn to 214)?

140

The answer is, of course, the letter N. ‘Correct,’ says
the extra-terrestrial. “You may pass.” Which door
will you go through: the right (turn to 34), centre
(turn to 14) or left (turn to 381)?

ne

141-144

141

The device is a small black square with a large red
button set into it; the wires leading from itattach toa
portable power source. Nothing happens when you
press the button and, as you can see several other
places where some other widget is meant fo plug in,
you deduce that the device is incomplete. You put it
in your pack. Leaving the alien, will you examine
the left maintenance hatch (turn to 58) or the right
maintenance hatch (turn to 77)?

142 .
You are ona grass-covered plain which continues to

the south, but to the east develops into a broken, .

scrubby wasteland, To the north is a forest and in
the west some low hills rise. Roll one die. If the
resultis even, turn to 180. If the resultis odd, turn to

199.
The bottle simply contains ink. Turn to 181.

144

You take careful aim and pull the trigger. The pathe-
tic little alien whimpers and dies. You go over and
search the broken little body, but it has no passes-
sions. The realization that you have probably mur-
dered an innocent creature fills you with such dis-
gust that you lose 1 point of SKILL. You go back to
the tunnel. Turn to 163-

1457147

145
You strike up a conversation, but the spider really

doesn’t know very much useful information —main-
ly stuff about insects and trees from its home planet
of Ti. It tells a sad tale of being captured by Cyrus for
perverse experimentation and, in gratitude to you
for having effected its release, it gives you a small
sachet of what it calls “Anti-Molluse Formula Four’ -
evidently very popular on the planet Ti. If you
haven't already, you may revive the occupant of the
second capsule (turn to 274); otherwise you leave
the room (turn to 126).

146
They do not look very impressed and, being secur-
ity guards, they are naturally suspicious. They aim
their blasters and tell you to throw down your
weapons. Will you do as they say (turn to 239) or
will you fight them (turn to 108)?

147
You cross the bridge easily, the lack of a handrail
being only mildly disconcerting. You go through
the other exit. Turn to 373.

i ree
ee

148-149

148
If you have the matching piece of this device you
may turn to 296. Alternatively you can attempt to
trade something of your own for the device (turn to
224) or just steal it and threaten the natives with
your superior weapons if they kick up a fuss (turn to

251)-

149
The creature cogitates deeply, looking more dis-

turbed and dumbfounded with every second. Its

eyes glaze over, it sways slightly and then begins to

drool. This deeply distracted state allows you to

sneak past it ta examine the three doors behind.
Turn to 97.

150-151

150

You jumpat the ceiling, grab a low girder and swing
up on toa narrow walkway, while laser blasts skitter
around you. Crouching low, you run along the
gantry, ducking constantly as the fire from below
smashes with great sparks and splashes of molten
metal into the surrounding girder-work. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 207- If you are Uniucky,
turn to 112.

151

You fire into some of the still white cabinets, making
them burst into flames and shower you with sparks.
A gigantic, evil shudder runs through the entire
spacecraft — something essential failing, no doubt.
As you want to be able to get off the Vandervecken
alive, you think twice about destroying more of the
computer. You go through the other door. Turn to
208.

152
If you have either of the items below, you may use
one:

‘

Cylinder of bearings Turn to 114
Pan-Dimensional Homing Device Turn to 76

If you have neither of these (or you choose not to use
them), turn to 95.

153
Will you go north (turn to 359), west (turn to 115),
south (turn to 235) or east — either along the north-
ern side of the chasm (turn to 306) or the southern
side (turn to 227)?

154
Unfortunately you have wasted just a bit too much
time. As sirens scream, the machine voice finishes
the count-down. The Vandervecken is destroyed ina
mighty blast and, as a consequence, you are killed.

155-158

155
‘Aha!’ you cry. ‘The cylinder from the Fossnik is a
key for the door.’ You push the cylinder into the
hole next to the door then watch as the door slides
into the roof with a whoosh, Turn to 9B.

156
Turn to 166,

157
Yourattempts to engage the machines in any sort of
conversation fail. So you tentatively step into the
room; the robots continue to ignore you. As you get
a closer look at them you notice that they are all in
need of repairs. Turn to 62.

158
You are in the midst of low, rocky hills stretching for
kilometres on all sides. Will you have a closer look
around the hills’ environs (turn to 25), or just try to
get out of them by heading either north (turn to 64),
west (turn to 78), south (turn to 84) or east (turn to
214)?

Re ciait
he Win tt

159-161

159

You are On a grass-covered plain which extends to
the north, east and west. To the south is a forest, As
you trek across this plain you see a shaclow gliding
over the grass towards you. Looking up you see a
massive winged scorpion diving at you with its
sting lowered. There is nowhere to nin or hide; you
will have to fight it hand to hand.

WINGEDSCORPION | skILt§ STAMINA 6
If you defeat it, turn to 397.

160

You are on the east side of a vast impassable chasm
which runs to the north and south, In the bottom of
the chasm is a river. To the north and south you can
see flat plains, while behind you, to the east, is a
forest. To the west you can see the other side of the
chasm. Will you go north (turn to 250), south (farn
to 288) or east (turn to 27)?

161

The enemy vehicle appears in front of you, exposing,
its more vulnerable armour. You fire without fear of
it retaliating — roll the dice {as previously specified),
If you have destroyed your opponent turn to 190
now; otherwise the other tank drives away from
you, but remains in sight two blocks ahead. Add 1 to
your sSTATuS. Turn back to your previous location to
select your move, but ignore the directions to check
your STATUS.
ee .

162-164

162
To find out what your items are, turn to the

appropriate page:

The plastic cylinder Turn to 29
The light plastic case Turn to 67
The cardboard packet with

emblazoned red heart Turn to 105

The small bottle of black liquid Turn to 143
163

The tunnel continues ‘for a very long time before

coming to a dead end. There, at your feet in the

floor, is another hatch which you open and drop

through. Turn to 201,

164
The capsules are indistinguishable apart from the
life-signs monitors which indicate that the second
capsule’s occupant has a slightly higher metabolic
rate than the first capsule’s. Which will you attempt
to revive — the first (turn to 32) or the second (turn to

274)?

165-166

165
You fire! If you have not killed the Toroid after three
combat rounds, turn to 384.

TOROID SKILLO

Lf you defeat it, turn to 332,

STAMINA 12

166

Without warning, the floor slides away and sends
you plummeting down a narrow chute. The floor,
now above, moves back into place, plunging you
into darkness. The slide continues fora few minutes
until the darkness gives way and you find yourself
apparently ejected over an alien planet. Strange,
though; it looks ‘very close and rather doughnut-
shaped — not a planetary formation you had been
aware could exist. You plummet down towards it,
absorbing breathtaking views of wide alien vistas,
panoramas and rolling purple hills. Just before you
hit the ground at something like 260 kilometres per
hour, you mysteriously decelerate to land lightly.
You no longer seem to be in the starship but on
another planet. (From now on compass points will
be used for directional reference.} Turn to 78.

If you have just turned to this location, add 1 to your
sTATus. Your vehicle is at point B, facing west. After
checking your status below, if you want to move
ahead to point A, turn to 349; if you want to turn on
the spot to face south, turn to 91. sTATUS: if STATUS
equals 3, turn to 188; if it equals 10, turn to 33; if it
equals 4, 5, 11 or 12, turn to 66. (Remember to return
to 167, though.)

168
Which way will you go; north (turn to 289), west
(turn to 102), south (turn to 83) or east (turn to 159)?

169-170

169
The book that you read earlier actually mentioned
this type of robot; the knowledge you have thus
gained will allow you to inflict 1 extra point of
damage every time you hit one of the devices (if you
choose to fight them). Turn to 36.

-

S os) ease Mette SAN <—
me Li NN Le a

170

‘Oh,’ says the pilot, a little hurt at your reply. ‘But,’
it continues, ‘if it were possible, and we assume,
just for the argument’s sake, that yor are actually the
conscious entity creating this world around you oui
of your own mind, do you think that I—a creation of
yours — might be able to have conscious experiences
without your conscious knowledge of such events?
Could | be a sort of sub-self of you?’ Will you tell the
robot that you don’t know (turn to 37) or ignore the
rather bizarre questioning and change the subject to
something more useful, such as the whereabouts of
Cyrus (turn to 389)?

RASS

FN tt
A

171-173

1

When you reach the end of the chute you find
yourself in a large hangar housing a small starship,
Cyrus, anticipating your pursuit, has climbed into a
stevedore Waldo — an enormously powerful
machine of roughly human proportions with regard
to number of arms and legs but mechanically mag-
nifying the operator's movements to a terrifying
degree. Cyrus, using the Waldo, has picked up an
industrial laser with which to attack you. Will you
fight him (turn to 95} or look in your pack for
another means of defeating him (turn to 152)?

172

The tunnel twists and turns through the ship's
interior for a considerable distance, Eventually you
arrive at a junction, with similar passages dis-
appearing into the darkness to the left and right. To
the front, the tunnel ends in a small doorway which
is marked;

WARNING
EXTREME DANGER
ENTER ONLY WITH AUTHORITY

You may go left (turn to 175), nght (turn to 59) or
through the door (turn to 191).

173
Will you go north (turn to 83), west (turn to 160),
south (turn to 104) or east (turn to 323)?

174-176

174

Through the door is asmall kitchen and dining-area;
once again everything is decorated in an alien style
designed to make human behaviour difficult. The
food that is available on the meal-o-matics is, with-
out exception, unpalatable and raw. You do,
however, find a couple of high-energy bars which
you may take with you (they count as a single item
for pack purposes). When you decide to eat these, 5
points will be restored to your STAMINA. Leaving
the kitchen, you return to the corridor and proceed
along it. Turn to 229.

175

The left-hand passage is long, wide and straight —a
veritable highway in comparison to the tunnels you
have traversed so far. It eventually ends in a couple
of small hatches; one hatch blocks the tunnel, while
the other is set into the wall on one side. Which will
you open, the hatch in front (turn to 194} or the
hatch to the side (turn to 266)?

176

The enemy vehicle appears in front of you, exposing
its more vulnerable armour. You fire without fear of
it retaliating — roll the dice (as previously specified).
lf you have destroyed your Opponent turn to 190
now; otherwise the other tank takes a left turn one
block ahead and disappears from sight. Add 1 to
your STATUS. Turn back to your previous location to
select your move, but ignore the directions to check
your STATUS.

177-179

177
If you have any of the following you may choose one
and employ it against the beast:

Aerosol can of nerve gas Turn to 232
Book of extra-terrestrials Turn to 268
Pan-Dimensional Homing Device Turn to 304

If you have none of these, turn to 340.

178
Aftera shart distance, you come upon a fast-flowing
river which cuts across your path, Will you attempt
to swim east across it (turn to 269), or go north (turn
to 253), west (turn to 64) or south (turn to 214)?

179

You are ona grass-covered plain with a large chasm
running into it from the east, like a huge axe-cut
extending as far as the eye can see. To the north and
west are forests. To the south, the plain you are on
seems to turn into broken, scrubby country. Will
you search for some way down into the chasm (turn
to 198} or go in some other direction (turn to 153)?

er

180-182

180
The ground collapses, sending you into a deep pit
lined with punji stakes. Lose 1 ARMouR point. After
extricating yourself from the stakes you manage to
climb out. Turn to 199.

181
if you have not found out what your second item is,
turn back to 162; otherwise you go back down the
corridor and then along the left-hand path — turn to

a4 - x

“ ee BS pes 3 y tars
5 S\FRS er sae ’
oa Se Ge

182

You dive down to the submarine and climb through
the airlock. Safe! There is only one control for the
submarine: an omoff switch set into the arm of a
chair in the conning tower. You turn this to on. The
submarine moves, gliding into a tunnel in the lake
bed. The journey takes a while and allows you some
much needed rest - restore 4 points to your STAMI-
Na, Eventually you surface into a large room, half of
which is a pool of water for the submarine, while the
other half looks strangely like the interior of the
Vandervecken. Climbing from the conning tower into
the dry half of the room, you see that there is only
one exit, You go through it. Turn to 309.

183-184

183
If you have either of these items, turn to the
appropnate page:

Large fresh crab Turn to 202
Electronic book of
extra-terrestrials Turn ta 238

If you have neither of these, then you must either
fightit (turn to 69), ran away (turn to 126) orattempt
to communicate with it (turn to 107}.

184
If you have any of the items below, choose which
one you will use and turn to the appropriate page:

Aerosol can of nerve gas Turn to 275
Deck of cards Turn to 314
Container of ball-bearings Turn to 347

Pan-Dimensional Homing Device = Turn to 396

if you have none of these you will either have to
fight them (turn to 108) or bluff them into letting you
through (turn to 146).

185-187

185

When you are about halfway around the pool a
series of ripples spreads across the face of the water.
You hurry along but notice, to your horror, that
tentacles are rising out of the pool’s edge and crawl-
ing, like slimy green serpents, towards you. Before
you can run, you are surrounded, Out of the water
rise bloated green bodies, ghastly yellow eyes glint-
ing and hungry beaks clicking. Confronting you are
two creatures which resemble both man and octo-
pus. Will you fight them (turn to 204) or search
through your pack for some other means of defence
(turn to 240)?

186
You give it a piece of fruit. The squirrel-thing bites
into it heartily and produces a low, satisfied purr,
After eating, it climbs on to your shoulder and,
holding on tight, falls asleep. You pocket a couple
more pieces of this fruit for later use, then leave the
room and head up the corridor. Turn to 118.

187
The two pieces plug together to form a black oblong
with two red buttons. Once the two pieces are
together they begin to hum and one edge lights up
with the legend:

PAN-DIMENSIONAL HOMING DEVICE —
EMERGENCIES ONLY

Countit as one item for pack purposes. Turn to 368.

———————————

188-189

188

A blast from the enemy vehicle's phaser smashes
into your tank, stripping 1 SHIELD from your de-
fence level. You can’t be sure which direction the
fire came from because you can't see to the rear or
side, only forwards (and there's nothing in sight
there). Add 1 to your status. Turn back to your
previous location to select your move, but ignore
the directions to check your STATUS.

eh ~ gh) an eee Me.

189
The door leads you toa long corridor which ends in
a blank wall. When you touch the wall, to see if
there are any hidden doors, all the lights go out and
are replaced by an other-worldly blue haze, A high-
pitched whine starts up at the other end of the
corridor, and small electric flashes arc down to-
wards your end, You realize, too late, that you are in
a particle accelerator. A bright cloud of positrons,
accelerating to near light-speed, flies down the cor-
ridor and crashes into you — removing you from this
world in a puff of photons.

nee

190191

190

The lights in your tank go out and you feel your
chair rising. Hatches open overhead and then shut
below you, as you pass upwards. Suddenly, you are
in free fall, in a weightless environment, the chair
left behind. You roll over and over, all sense pf
direction lost. A pinprick of light becomes apparent,
growing by the second until, with a rush, it is
around and past you. The journey has taken you
into a long, light, zero-gravity transit tunnel —
generally pretty fast and safe travel, but in your
case, as the tunnel up ahead is occupied by a man-
eating Toroid, just fast — all too fast. The Toroid
looks pretty much like an enormous eyeless dough-
nut with innumerable fangs set in its inner circle -
an inner circle (or mouth) that you are_ flying to-
wards at great speed, If you have a gravity bomb
you could send this down before you into the
beast’s maw (turn to 52); otherwise you will have to
shoot at it (turn to 165),

191

The hatch gives way easily, and a slight sigh of air
indicates a small difference in pressure between the
tunnel and what lies beyond. Perhaps no one has
been this way for quite some time. On the other side
isa long narrow room —almosta tunnel —garishly lit
by red fluorescent tubes running along all its ver-
tices. In the middle of the opposite wall, in the
centre of a pulsating neon cross, is a box. Will you
investigate the box (turn to 342), or leave the room
and go either right (turn to 59) or left (turn to 175)?

192-194

192
‘I say...’ you say, to attract its attention. Before
you can finish however, the robot spins, aims and
fires — the blast smashes into the tunnel behind you
and showers the area with molten metal. You will
have to fight it. Turn to 228.

193

If you have just turned to this location, add 1 to your
status. Your vehicle is at point H, facing west.
After checking your status below, if you want to
move ahead to point G, turn to 73; if you want to
turn on the spot to face north, turn to 313. STATUS: if
STATUS equals 5, 6, 12, 13 or 16, turn to 188; if it
equals 8, turn to 261; if it equals 7, turn to 66.
(Remember to return to 193, though.)

194
The hatch gives way into a circular airlock with two
doorways — one is labelled Escare Prop and the
other is a security door. If you have picked up a
cylindrical security key from an earlier encounter
you may proceed through the security doar (turn to
356); otherwise you will have to go back to the
tunnel and go through the other hatch (turn to 266).

195-197

195

One good hit smashes the disk into tiny fragments,
which bounce harmlessly off your armour. You
inspect the room, The pressure-suits are not terribly
useful to you, as you already have one, but at the
end of one rack you find something that you im-
mediately recognize as being battle armour, con-
structed of a light fibrous polymer that is extremely
resistant to all forms of attack. If you wish to wearit,
turn to 231; otherwise you lay it aside, leave via the
door you entered by and continue up the corridor
(turn to 267).

196
The beast is vanquished and you are master of its
cave. Looking around, you find very little - only
bones and, in one niche, an enormous pair of carni-
vore jaws which you may take if you wish. Resting
in the safety of the cave you recover 5 points of
STAMINA. Eventually, though, you must leave.
Which way will you go; north (turn to 64), west
(turn to 78), south (turn to 84) or east (turn to 214}?

197
After a short distance you come upon a fast-flowing
river which cuts across your path, Will you attempt
to head north by swimming across this turgid water
(turn to 305), or go east (turn to 341), south (turn to
250) or west (turn to 233)?

198-201

198
You find some very rough-cut and dangerous-
looking stairs hacked into the side of a cliff, which
wind down into the chasm. Will you go down these
any (turn to 270) orin some other direction (turn to
153).

Will you go north (turn to 115), west (turn to 289),
south (turn to 159) or east (turn to 235)?

200
The corridor leads past a door on your right. Will
you continue down the corridor (turn to 308) or go
through the door (turn to 236)? |

201
You are in a very large room with a rather peculiar
floor-space — half of it is taken up by a pool of water
running the entire length of the room. At the other
end of the dry space, which also runs the length of
the room, you can see a door. Will you investigate
the pool (turn to 237) or the door (turn to 309)?

202

You take the crab out and throw it at the spider's
feet. It looks at it, tentatively turns it over with a
claw and says, ‘Why, thanks.’ It eats the crab with
some enthusiasm. Turn to 145.

203

The guards are vanquished, but a red light is
flashing on the video controls — perhaps somebody
or something has been alerted. You had better
hurry. The room has two other exits; one is a secur-
ity door and the other is a simple manual sliding
door, If you don’t already have one, you may take
an assault blaster from one of the guards. Which
door will you go through—the security door (turn to
109) or the sliding door (turn to 257)?

x ————E——————————

204-205

:
=

if you have a grenade you may throw one into the
pool. If you decide to throw a grenade, turn to 276;
otherwise turn to 312.

205
The second button depresses safely. When you
press the third, the dial pops free of the floor,
revealing the contents of the safe — well, not really a
safe, but a booby-trap, for there, sunk into the floor,
is a gravity bomb which would have been set off had
you pressed the wrong sequence of buttons. It is
now safe to handle, though, so you may add it to
your weapon list. Which exit from the room will you
take: the door in front (turn to 80) or the door to the
side (turn to 319)?

206-207

206

You offer the item to the chief, an act which seems to
please both him and his tribe. However, when it
becomes apparent to them that you want part of
their totem in return, their mood changes quite
rapidly to outright hostility. A few of the bigger
aliens openly brandish extremely nasty-looking
spears. You decide to quit the village before the
scene becomes violent. Turn to 361.

207
You reach the end of the gantry on the other side of
the room. Almost directly below are the Sentinels,
busily blasting away the ceiling around you. Be-
tween them, only a couple of metres away, is the
open exit. Will you:

Attempt to swing down from the
ceiling, between the Sentinels

and straight through the exit? Turn to 243
Engage the Sentinels in a fight? Turn to 279
Jump on to one of the Sentinels

to send it out of control

while shooting at the other? Turn to 315

208—210

208

The door opens into a spacious room. There are
deep chairs, paintings, off-world rugs, boaok-
shelves lined with vellum-covered volumes and
there, in one of the chairs, is Cyrus! He looks at you
in a rather startled way. With nervous haste he puts
down the book he was reading and starts to his feet.
‘Er ... welcome,’ he begins. ‘Can I offer you a
drink?’ Will you accept his offer and chat with him
awhile before making the arrest (turn to 244) or will
you move straight in for the kill and capture him
immediately (turn to 280)?

209

As you pull the lever down, all the red lights in the
room begin a long, slow pulsing, A very low,
menacing tone sounds in time with the lights. You
wait breathless for a few minutes but nothing else
seems to happen. The lights and tone continue to
pulse. You can either pull the other lever (turn to
245) or leave the room (turn to 335).

210

Inside the cave you are confronted by a massive
furry many-legged beast with huge teeth, bulging
eyes and razor talons, It roars and rushes forward
when it sees you. It looks so ferocious that you
fumble and drop your blaster. Will you fight it (turn
to 101), run away {turn to 139) or use one of your
pack items (turn to 177)?

211-214

211
In the fight, the robot will fire twice per combat
round, each hit doing 2 points of damage to your
STAMINA.

GUARD ROBOT
If you defeat it, turn to 247.

SKILL7 STAMINA 6

212
Your carefully aimed shot kills the man instantly,
and sends his body sprawling on the floor. Turn to

248.

213

This door has two short black levers protruding
from it, but is otherwise indistinguishable from any
other door on the Vandervecken. The door fails to
open when you use the electronic cylinder key, so
you resort to pulling the levers. Will you pull the left
lever (turn to 10), the right lever (turn to 23) or both
(turn to 156)?

214
You are on a grass-covered plain which rolls to the
south, east and north. In the west some low, rocky
hills can be seen. Will you go north (turn to 102),
east (turn to 286), south (turn to 122) or west (turn to
158)?

— ie a ee

215-217

#15

The structure, as you approach it, turns out to be a
short pier extending out intoa rapidly flowing river.
Moored to the pier are several sturdy-looking
canoes, You may take a canoe and paddle down the
river westwards (turn to 96), or ignore them and
walk north (turn to 289), west (turn to 102), south
(turn to 83) or east (turn to 159).

216

if you have just turned to this location, add 1 to your
sTATus. Your vehicle is at point E, facing west. After
checking your STATUS below, if you want to move
ahead to point D, you can either turn to 374 (to finish
facing north) or to 130 (to finish facing south); if you
want to turn on the spot (E) then turn to 82 to face
north, or to 22 to face south. status: if sTaTUS
equals 5 or 12, turn to 188; if it equals 9, turn to 261; if
it equals 6, 13 or 14, turn to 66. (Remember to return
to 216, though.)

217
The forest is just what it seems to be, a forest. You
abandon your search and go either north {turn to
227), west (turn to 235), south (turn to 64} or east
{turn to 253).

218-221

218

You lean over the prone figure and try to prise open
its claws from the disintegrator it was holding. As
you do this, the Deity explodes violently — roll one
die and subtract the result from your STAMINA. If
you are still alive, you find that the weapons are
now simply useless hunks of debris. You leave the
room via the other exit. Turn to 254.

219

The path runs for quite a few kilometres before
ending at a small aluminium cube which, like the
path, is hanging in mid-air. As you get closer you
see that the path ends at a door in the side of the
cube, while beside the door is parked a rapid-transit
two-seater commuter. Will you enter the cube (turn
to 395) or jump into the commuter and head back to
the T-junction and down the left-hand branch of the
path (turn to 70)?

220
You fight it in hand-to-hand combat.

THARN
DOPPELGANGER

if you defeat it, turn to 13.

SKILL 8 STAMINA 6

221
‘Yeah?’ exclaims the first. ‘We could be out of a job
soon,’ says the other, ‘Better pack then.” You leave
them chatting about their possible futures. Turn to

329.

a ee ———

_—_—

222-224

222

You take the homing device in hand, but a green
tentacle flies from one of the mutants, snatches the
device and flings it into the centre of the pool. Not
much chance of using it now —cross the device from
your Equipment List. You will have to fight the
mutants. Turn to 204.

223

If you have just turned to this location, add 1 to your
sTATUS. Your Vehicle is at point A, facing east. After
checking your status below, if you want to move
ahead to point B, turn to 332; if you want to turn on
the spot to face south, turn to 349. staTUs: if STATUS
equals 3 or 4, turn to 33; if it equals 10, turn to 66; ifit
equals 5, 11 or 12, turn to 261; if it equals 8 org, turn
to 188. (Remember, if you have to turn to one of the
numbers above because of your sTaTus, make a
note of where you are — 223 in this case - so you can
return here to decide where to move.}

224
What will you use to trade for the part:
A piece of technology? Turn to 16
A large set of carnivore jaws? Turn to 55
A few pieces of orangey-purple
fruit? Turn to 35

225-226

225
‘Check,’ says the first. ‘Ditto,’ says the second. They
swivel back on their pedestals and proceed to ignore
you. Passing them, you are confronted by the
second pair of creatures. They turn and speak: ‘Up
is up and down is down.’ ‘But do they really exist or
are they ghosts?’ adds the second, What will you
answer: that they are real (turn to 272) or not (turn to

387)?

te ee

226

He prattles on about how he loves a good bet, a
good card game, He hunts around in the drawer of a
desk, presumably for some cards. Presumably, He
comes out of the drawer, head up, witha gun which
he points at you. ‘So, they thought they could get
rid of me using just one of their so-called assassins,
hey?’ he asks derisively, waving the pistol at you as
he paces up and down the room. ‘A whole planet
couldn’t dispose of me! They will pay, how they will
pay!’ He slams a switch on the wall, plunging the
roam into utter darkness. If you have the infra-red
goggles, turn to 298; otherwise turn to 334-

ee en ee

CC i-

°° ar

227-229

22

You are on the south side of a vast impassable
chasm which runs from the west to east. The bottom
is a flat plain. You are on a narrow strip of grassy
plain, which continues to the west and east. To the
south is a forest and to the north you can see the
other side of the chasm. Will you go west (turn to
179), south (turn to 343) or follow the chasm east
(turn to 288)?

228
As you have the hatch for cover you may lob a
grenade in at the machine,

GUARD ROBOT
If you defeat it, turn to 264.

SKILL7 STAMINA 6

229
The corridor ends in a circular room occupied by a
squat, armless, tripedal robot. This robot, which has
a pair of electric lashes projecting from its chest,
squawks as you approach, ‘Halt: inspection point.’
Will you attempt to bluff your way past the machine
(turn to 301) or simply attack it (turn to 211)?

230-232

230
Opening the door, you step into a room largely
taken up by a glass cage of tiny screaming creatures.
They all have six legs and bulging eyes, and most
have thick black fur— the odd ones out having been
shaved, for no apparent reason. They are all leaping
about their cage in great agitation, swinging from
overhead bars and rattling at the door. The only
other thing in the room is a large open crate some
metres from the cage. Will you try to have a closer
look at one of the creatures (turn to 99) or look in the
crate instead (turn to 372}?

231
You swap your old suit of armour for this new one -
raise your ARMOUR points to 14. However, as this
new suit is bulkier than your own, you will have to
decrease your SKILL by 1 point, You leave the room
— WSS and continue up the corridor. Turn to 267.

232
You spray the beast in the face and, after a fraction
of a second, it rolls over dead. It is a fortunate thing
that you still have your spacesuit on. It is unfortun-
ate, however, that you have exhausted the contents
of the can — cross it off your Equipment List. Turn to
196.

233-235

233
After a short distance you come upon a fast-flowing
river which cuts across your path. Will you attempt
to swim west, to the other side (furn to 305), or go
north (turn to 197), east (turn to 341) or south (turn
to 250)?

234
The alien doesn’t seem to have anything else to
offer, Leaving it, will you examine the right mainte-
nance hatch (turn to 77) or the left maintenance
hatch {turn to 58)?

235
You are ona broken plain covered by rocks, low red
shrubs and large black burnt patches, If you have
been among these red shrubs before, turn to 307;
otherwise turn to 271.

236-237

236

The door leads you into a small room whose walls
are covered with shelves which, for the most part,
are filled with electro-memory cassettes. On a table
set against the middle of the opposite wall is a
machine for copying the contents of these tapes on
to others. You walk across to it and find there is a
cassette already in the machine, waiting to be
copied. If you want to take this item, add it to your
Equipment List. You inspect the cassettes on the
walls, but find' that they all seem to be blank.
Disgruntled at not finding anything more useful,
you return to the corridor. Turn to 308.

237

The pool, on closer examination, reveals itself to be
a swiftly flowing body of water rushing out from
under the wall at one end of the room and dis-
appearing equally rapidly under the wall at the
opposite end, Through the distorted surface you
can see strange metallic shapes — rails, machines
and clamping devices — under the water. Will you
ease yourself into the water to identify these devices
(turn to 273) or leave the room via the door on the
dry side (turn to 309)?

238-239 :

238
You take the book out of its cover and point it at the
spider, The book tells you that the spider is a Vert
from the planet Ti, and that it is intelligent and
probably peaceful. Turn to 145.

239

You put your weapon down at your feet, much to
the satisfaction of the guards. They keep their blas-
ters trained on you while they drag your equipment
away to the centre of the room. They then decide to
kill you, as you are obviously an intruder. What can
you do? You dive for your weapons in the middle of
the room. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, the guards
get ta shoot at you once each before you fire back. If
you are Unlucky, the guards get to shoot at you twice
each before you return fire. They fire at you simul-
taneously.

SKILL STAMINA
First GUARD 6 4
Second GUARD 6 4

if you defeat them, turn to 203.

240~241

240
lf you have any of the items below, choose which
one you will use and turn to the appropriate page:

Aerosol can of nerve gas Turn to 348
Pan-Dimensional Homing Device Turn to 222
Bottle of ink Turn to 258
Anti-Mollusc Formula Four Turn to 394

[f you don’t have any of these, you will have to fight
them (turn to 204}.

241

[f you have just turned to this location, add 1 to your
STATUS. Your vehicle is at point I, facing north.
After checking your status below, if you want to
move ahead to point F, turn to 110; if you want to
turn on the spot to face west, turn to 277. sTATUS: if
STATUS equals 2 or 3, turn to 28; if it equals 15, turn
to 33; if it equals 1 or 16, turn to 66. (Remember to
return to 241, though.)

ee: | is
<< — =

242-244

242

When you take the head out of your pack it smiles at
the chief and says: ‘Good day, sir. May loffer youan
Antares Red?’ It creates a sensation among all pre-
sent. When it becomes apparent to them that you
are actually offering them this for the tip of their
totem pole, they can‘t fall over themselves fast
enough to make the deal. You get the part. If you
have the matching half of this device, turn to 187;
otherwise turn to 368,

243
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 297. If youare

Unlucky, turn to 333.

244
He goes to the drinks’ cabinet, pours you a large

Antares Red, motions you to be seated and then sits
next to you. ‘So, you have come to take me into
custody? he asks, You nod and take a sip of your
drink. You inform him of his crimes against society
and how, if he’s lucky, he'll only get ninety-nine
years instead of the chair, He nods pensively and
seems repentant. It is at this moment that you feel
decidedly ill, You hold your head as waves of
nausea and unconsciousness sweep over you. He's
drugged your drink! Roll three dice. If the result is
equal to or greater than your STAMINA, turn to 316, If
the result is Jess fant your STAMINA, turn to 352.

i

245

245
You pull the lever down — the fatal connection is
made. The red lights begin to flash with a strobe-like
rapidity, a screaming siren starts up and a great
rumbling goes through the ship. From all around
you a deep machine voice booms out:

REACTOR CORE NOW UNSHIELDED
TERMINAL MALFUNCTION IN TMINUS
TWO MINUTES
DESTRUCTION OF VANDERVECKEN WILE FOLLOW IN
T MINUS SIX MINUTES

Realizing that you've really done it this time, you
run from the room, throwing yourself through the
hatchway into the tunnel beyond. Will you take the
= tunnel (turn to 21) or the right tunnel (turn to
281)?

246-247

246

When you are within fifty metres of the nearest hut,
a loud hubbub starts up as about twenty aliens,
looking like fierce little easter eggs with bushes of
hair, come streaming out of the village toward you.
As the aliens near, a higher-pitched chanting and
wailing starts up from an unseen source in the
village, Will you stand fast (turn to 336), open fire on
them (turn to 282) or flee (turn to 361)?

v

t

4 —
——— ss
‘

y

f__+-

247

The robot falls over sideways, thick black smoke
pouring from its shell. The room has two exits: a
security door in front {on the opposite side of the
corridor entrance) and another to the side. Will you
inspect the remains of the robot (turn to 283), or go
through either the door in front (turn to 80) or the
door to the side (turn to 319)?

= - ee ——— ———— -
248-249

248

You climb through the hatch, look around the room
and search the man’s body. The room is full of
electronic measuring-devices of the sort used in the
repair and maintenance of complex electronic sys-
tems. None are of any particular use to you. The
only item of any interest is a small, narrow cylinder
which the man wore around his neck on a long
chain. Thinking this might be a key, you approach
the security door and put the cylinder in a hole next
to it. The door opens. Turn to 356.

The door opens to reveal what is obviously an
armoury. There are racks of guns, boxes of ammuni-
tion and other interesting devices. If you have not
taken a weapon from a robot yet, you may take an
assault blaster from one of the racks and add it to
your weapon list. You also find two small cases,
although, due to their weight, you may take only
one. One looks as if it contains explosives, while the
other seems to contain a strange pair of goggles.
Write down which case you decide to take with you.
This lucky find boosts your spirits - restore 4 points
to your STAMINA and add 1 LUCK point. You leave
via the door you entered by. Turn to 285.

250-251

250
You are on a grass-covered plain which spreads to
the south, east and north. To the distant west you
can see some hills rising. Will you go north (turn to
127), east (turn to 83), south (turn to 160) or west
(turn to 322)?

251

You push past the chief and his advisers, and make
a grab for the totem pole. Instantly, hordes of angry
warriors leap at you with previously hidden spears.
Most of their thrusts are turned by your armour, but
such is the intensity of their attacks that several
spears force their way through and make fatal con-
tact, You collapse under the angry wave, never to
rise. You have failed.

252-255

252

The plain you are on suddenly ends at a precipice.
You are on the edge of the intersection of two vast
chasms, one coming down from the north, the other
from the west, forming a gigantic backward L.
Looking down into the bottom, you see a wide lake
teeming with life; there are also dark submerged
shapes which might be large water animals or
perhaps machines. There is no obvious way to get
down to find out. Will you follow the chasm north
(turn to 122) or west (turn to 306)?

253
You are ona grass-covered plain which extends into
the north and south. To the westis a forest, while to
the east some low hills rise. Will you go north (turn
to 288), west (turn to 343), south (turn to 102) or east
(turn to 289)?

254
A solitary corridor twists past the exit for a while
before ending at a door. You open this and step
through. As the door shuts behind you, you natice
that it blends into the wall—looks like there’s no way
back now. Turn to 201.

255
You stride boldly across the floor, stepping on your
carefully selected tiles and reaching the other side in
one piece, You go through the door. Turn to 131.

256-257

256
If you have either of the items below, you may use
one of them:

Book of extra-terrestrials
Pan-Dimensional Homing Device

Turn to 364
Turn to 328

If you have neither of these, you will fight it (turn to
220).

257
The door leads to a small kitchenette with a delight-
ful aroma — a pot of coffee is sitting, begging to be
drunk, and on a sideboard are some fresh sand-
wiches! Will you stay here for a while to eat (turn to
293) or will you go back into the security nexus and
through the other exit (turn to 109)?

258-260

258
You open the bottle and throw the ink into the pool
where it spreads like a great dark cloud and strikes
some primeval genetic chord in the monsters,
perhaps of panic, At any rate, they dive into the
water and disappear from sight. You run to the exit.
Turn to 373.

259
‘What a stupid question,’ it says, taking steady aim
with its disintegrator. It looks as though you're
going to have to fight it. Turn to 383.

260

lf you do not have a spare piece of high-tech equip-
ment to trade, then you will have to give either a
weapon —if you have a spare — or 2 ARMOUR points,
You offer the item to the chief, an act which seems to
please both him and his tribe. Turn to 368. If you
don’t have anything to give, then you must leave
the village (turn to 362).

261

The enemy vehicle appears in front of you, exposing
its more vulnerable armour. You fire without fear of
it retaliating —roll the dice {as previously specified).
If you have destroyed your opponent turn to 190
now; otherwise the other tank takes a nght tum one
block ahead and disappears from sight. Add 1 to
your $Tatus, Turn back to your previous location to
select your move, but ignore the directions to check
your STATUS.

262

As you lunge over towards him he side-steps and
grabs a mechanical device from a coffee-table.
‘Stop!’ he cries. ‘Don’t move. This device is a very
complicated piece of machinery that I have been
working on of late. It fires a guided armour-piercing
dart, Itnever misses. Now, stand aside,’ Will you do
as he says (turn to 19) or go for him regardless (turn
to 370)?

>

263-265

263
Turn to 209,

264

The robot terminates. If you don’t already possess
one, you may add the machine's assault blaster to
your weaponry. You climb into the room, the only
sounds now being the crackle of small circuits pop-
ping in the robot's chest and the odd stifled cough
from the first cell. Which cell will you look in first,
the one with sounds emanating from it (turn to 63)
or the silent one (turn to 318)?

265

If you have just turned to this location, add 1 to your
STATUS. Your vehicle is at point H, facing east. After
checking your status below, if you want to move
ahead to point I, turn to 241; if you want to turn on
the spot to face north, turn to 313. status: if sTATUS
equals 5, 6, 12 or 13, turn to 188; if it equals 1, tum to
176; if it equals 7, turn to 66; if it equals 16, turn to 33.
(Remember to return to 265, though.)

266

266
Through the hatch isa tiny darkroomluttered with
books, small electronic devices, a bunk and other
furniture. A man in white overalls, an electronic
meter strapped to his waist, is slumped on the bunk
with his face buried in his hands. Hehas not noticed
you, nor is he making any noise. A security door in
the opposite wallis the only exit from the room. Will
you:

Attack him? Turn to 302
‘Threaten him to gain some
information? Turn to 320

Talk to him and try to
befriend him? Tum to 284

267
267

The corridor leads on for a great distance before
making a sharp turn. Following it, you stumble,
immediately after the turn, into a circular chamber
filled by eight Portabot Pillboxes. These little de-
vices stand about a third of a metre high, are
armoured, armed and convenient to carry about in
packs of four to defend areas where more cowardly
sorts would refuse to venture. As you leap back into
the cover of the corridor they pursue you with a
withering fire. You will have to fight them, If you
have any grenades you may throw a couple into the
room; a gravity bomb (if you have one) will ensure a

knock-out on all the devices.
SKILL STAMINA
. First PORTABOT 7 2
Second PORTABOT 7 2
Third PORTABOT 7 2
Fourth PORTABOT 7 2
Fifth PORTABOT 7 2
Sixth PORTABOT 7 2
Seventh PORTABOT 7 2
Eighth PORTABOT 7 2

If you destroy them, turn to 303.

~

268-270

268
You point the book at the charging beast and press a
button. ‘It's a SCALLOPIAN FANG,’ it screams.
‘Run!’ Will you run (turn to 139) or stand and fight
(turn to 101)?

269
Roll three dice. If the result exceeds your STAMINA,
turn to 45. If the result is equal fo or less than your
STAMINA, you have made it safely across to the
other side — turn to 127.

270

As you climb down the stairs, rocks slide from
under your feet and whole steps disintegrate as you
test your weight on them — it is a continual battle to
stay upright. Roll three dice. If the result exceeds
your STAMINA, you slip and tumble down the
Stairs. If you do slip, roll one die and deduct the
result from your sTAMINA. Eventually, however,
you make it to the bottom of the chasm and head
east along the floor, flanked by enormous granite
cliffs. After a few kilometres you arrive at the shore
ofa wide, still lake which has formed across a turnin
the chasm. There is no way to walk past it and no
point in going back, so, having zero risk of drown-
ing in your spacesuit, you decide to swim across it.
Turn to 324.

271-273

273
You accidentally brush against one of the shrubs: it
explodes violently, leaving a large burnt patch on
the ground and burning your spacesuit — lose 1
ARMOUR point. Turn to 307.

272
‘Dear oh dear,’ says the first, ‘What a dope,’ con-
tinues the other. Little panels flick open in their
bodies, revealing multiple blasters. You will have to
fight them. Turn to 71,

273

You climb into the water, lose your grip and get
swept under the far wall. For a long time you are
carried along, here and there, in total darkness.
Eventually, a circle of light appears above you and
begins to grow; you realize that you are actually
moving upwards and that the circle of light is,
paradoxically, sky. Inside a spacecraft? But there is
no doubting it. You pass through the hole and find
yourself in the middle of a rapidly flowing river
under an alien sky. On either side are wide grass-
covered plains. Soon you struggle over to the bank
and leave the river, heading inland a short way.
(From now on compass points will be used for
directional references.) Turn to 102.

274-275

274
You start the revive cycle. After a few moments
some sounds of activity arise from within the cap-
sule, which then swings open, letting free a human
being. Will you try to strike up a friendly conversa-
tion with this person (turn to 346), or be a bit wary
and threatening instead (turn to 310)?

275
You spray the gas into the room. Roll one die and
subtract the result from each of the staminas of the
guards:

First GUARD
Second GUARD

STAMINA 4
STAMINA 4

You use up the entire contents of the can — cross it
off your Equipment List, If the guards are still alive,
you will have to fight them (turn to 108); otherwise
turn to 203.
276
Roll one die. If the result is even, turn to 294. If the
resultis odd, turn to 330.

277

If you have just turned to this location, add 1 to your
STATUS. Your vehicle is at point I, facing west, After
checking your status below, if you want to move
ahead to point H, turn to 193; if you want to tum on
the spot to face north, turn to 241. $TaTUS: if STATUS
equals 7 or 8, turn to 123; if it equals 1 or 16, turn to
66; if it equals 15, turn to 188. (Remember to return
to 277, though.)

278
You retreat in time to avoid the cables and showers
of sparks, Obviously this hatch does not offer a way
through, so you turn your attention to the other
maintenance hatch. Turn to 77.

279-280

279
As you have the steel-work of the gantry for cover,
the machines will have some difficulty in hitting
you.

SKILL STAMINA
First SENTINEL 4 9
Second SENTINEL 4 9

If you defeat them, turn to 351.

280

‘Wait! Wait!’ Cyrus cries, flailing his arms in the air
as you close in.-‘Give a man about to lose his
freedom one last request, a moment of reprieve!
You just look at him distrustfully, ‘I’m a compulsive
gambler,’ he tells you. ‘Will you play just one hand
of cards with me?’ Well, will you play (turn to 226) or
just grab him and finish it now (turn to 262)?
281-282

281
As you race down the tunnel, tripping over the
abundance of pipes, the voice continues:

DESTRUCTION IN T MINUS FIVE MINUTES

You come to another access hatch at the end of the
tunnel, which you desperately fling open. On the
other side is a room full of electronic circuitry rising
from floor to ceiling. There is no obvious exit other
than the hatch you have just opened. Will you
explore the room in the hope of finding some hid-
den means of escape (turn to 317) or turn back and
go down the other tunnel (turn to 353)?

282

As saon as you shoot, the aliens give a horrified
scream and drop to the ground — into the cover of
the thick grass, You approach the village giving the
odd burst of fire into any likely looking clump of
grass, sometimes eliciting a scream but generally
hitting nothing. Without warning, most of the ori-
ginal aliens spring out of the grass only a matter of
feet from you and cast short, needle-sharp spears
with unerring accuracy. Most are turned by your
armour but one or two find a chink to pierce, with
fatal consequences. You stagger back a foot or so
and collapse. You have failed.
283-285

283

The robot is a useless hulk, but directly underneath
where it was standing you see a floor-safe, its but-
ton-covered dial previously hidden by the robot's
feet. Looking closer you see there are three different
coloured bittons to press to open it — blue, green
and red. Intrigued, you decide to open it, Which
colour button will you press first: blue (turn to 399),
green (turn to 385) or red (turn to 376)?

284
‘Ahem,’ you say, clearing your throat, while non-
chalantly leaning against a bulkhead. The man sits
upright with a violent start and stares at you. He
looks very upset. You explain to him your peaceful
intentions and after a few minutes he loosens up
and begins to talk freely, explaining that he is the
technician responsible for maintaining the robots on
board, His hatred for Cyrus is manifest. When you
inquire as to why he dislikes Cyrus so much (espe-
cially as he works for him), he explains that they
have been having ‘problems’ with the command
robot on the bridge. Evidently this robot, a new
experimental type, has developed a conscious per-
sonality and resents taking orders from Cyrus
whom he (the robot) considers to be insane. Cyrus
blames the technician for these problems and has
ordered him to shut the command robot down, but
the technician is especially unhappy about this, as
he considers it would be murder. ‘The machine is
alive!’ he explains. “You only have to talk to him to
see that. He knows he exists.” Finally, after this

285-287

informative chat, the technician shows you how to
open the security doors on the ship with an electro-
nic key which he gives you. You leave through the
other door. Tur: to 356.

285
If you chose the explosives, turn to 321; if you chose
the goggles, turn to 357.

286
After a short distance you come to a fast-flowing
river, which cuts across your path. Will you attempt
to swim east, across the turgid waters (turn to 358),
or walk north (turn to 102), west (turn to 214) or
south (turn to 122)?

287

Rocks appear out of the water and cliffs nse on bath
sides as you hurtle south; ahead, the roar of white
water increases. The boat is swept down through a
series of water-slides, small waterfalls and jumbled
rocks. Roll two dice. If the result exceeds your SKILL,
you have lost control of your boat and fall out of it-
roll one die and deduct the total from yoursTAMINA
as you get dashed against some rocks. Eventually
the rapids enc and you are carried down the centre
of a gigantic chasm. Turn to 324.
288-289

288

You are on the edge of a vast impassable chasm
which runs to the west and north, through the
midst of the plains on which you stand (which
continue to the south and east). In the bottom of the
chasm you can see a wide lake teeming with life;
there are also dark submerged shapes which might
be large water animals or perhaps machines. There
is no way to get down to find out. Will you follow
the chasm north (turn to 160) or west (turn to 227),
or leave the precipice and go south (turn to 253) or
east (turn to 104)?

You climb into the midst of some low, rolling hills
surrounded by a flat sea of grass. Will you explore
these hills for a while (turn to 325) or leave them
(turn to 361)?

290-291

290

Having vanquished the cleaners, you proceed
down the corridor, but reach its end in very short
time. The corridor terminates in the side of an
enormous tunnel of at least twenty metres dia-
meter, which disappears into darkness to the left
and right, There are no lights in it and the only detail
to be seen is a short landing which extends from the
end of the corridor into the centre of the tunnel. The
corridor has no doors leading from it other than one
small maintenance hatch close to the tunnel! end.
Will you examine the hatch (turn to 125) or the
landing in the tunnel (turn to 362)?

291
The man stirs as you approach and looks up with
bleary eyes. He looks as if he has suffered terribly

‘Who are you?’ he croaks through cracked lips. Will
you tell him that you are an assassin sent to get
Cyrus (turn to 363) or that you are one of the crew of
the Vandervecken (turn to 12)?

292-294

292

Under your continually threatening gaze and pro-
vocative language the person suddenly meta-
morphoses into a hideous bat-like creature which
swoops to attack you. Will you fight it (turn to 220)
or look in your pack for some other way out of the
situation (turn to 256)?

293
You sit back and take it easy fora bit—regain 5 points

of STAMINA. After recuperating, you leave the
kitchenette, and go into the security room and
through the exit. Turn to 209.

294
One of the octopus creatures catches the grenade in
mid-flight with a couple of its tentacles and holds it
aloft. The grenade explodes. Roll the usual dice to
see how much damage each creature takes but, in
addition, as the blast was so close to you, deduct 1
point from your own ARMOUR, Turn to 312.
295~297

295
If you have any of the items below, choose which
one you will employ and turn to the appropriate

page:

Pan-Dimensional Homing Device Turn to 377
Deck of playing cards Turn to 367
Book of extra-terrestrials Turn to 326
A Cephalo squirrel Turn to 390

If you don't have any of these, you will either have
to attempt to answer the creature’s question (turn to
15) or fight it (turn to 383).

206

Opening your pack you clasp the matching part and
raise it above your head, shouting: ‘See, its brother
returns!’ The amazed aliens collapse to the ground
and begin wailing. Raising one of the chiefs up, you
convince him, via sign language, that he should
give the part on the totem pole to you. When he
understands, he signals to a younger alien who
climbs the pole and returns with the part, which the
chief then presents to you. Turn to 187.

297
You jump at a stout-looking pipe just above the
opening and swing through the blazing crossfire
out of the room, Safe! Turn to 369.

298-300
298

When you snap the goggles on, the room seems to
light up. You can see Cyrus feeling his way along a
wall (he is, unlike you, still blind in the darkness):
he reaches a hanging picture and gives it a twist. To
your surprise a small secret panel opens in the wall,
through which Cyrus dives. The panel closes, be-
coming invisible. Well, you certainly have no reason
to stay here, so you walk over to the picture, twist it,
and dive through the secret panel when it opens.
Turn to 171.

299
Turn to 209.

300
Stepping through the blast hole you find yourself in
a small lock-up consisting of two cells and the room
occupied by yourself and the now defunct guard. If
you don’t already have one, you may add the
robot's assault blaster to your weaponry. The only
exits from this lock-up are via an impassable secur-
ity door and a small maintenance hatch which
opens, you discover, into a narrow access tunnel
leading into the dark interior of the spacecraft. Will
you look in the first cell (turn to 63), the second cell
(turn to 318) or leave the room via the tunnel (turn to

134)?
301-304

301
You try to pass yourself off as a security guard. ‘Just
on a routine tour,’ you say, ‘checking IDs.’ The
machine muses for a bit before saying, ‘I'll have to
check with central. Just hold on. . .’ It sits silent for
amoment, evidently in contact with another section
in the ship. Then, without warning, it attacks, and
one of the shots slams into you — lose 1 ARMOUR
point. You will have to fight it. Turn to 211.

302
You carefully train your gun on the man — he
remains still and silent. Tes! your Luck, If you are
Lucky, turn to 212. If you are Unlucky, turn to 338.

393

The room, along with the Pillboxes, has been de-
molished. The only recognizable details left are the
two exit doors — one is a standard security door
while the other has two short black levers protrud-
ing from it, Both are a bit pockmarked, but still
serviceable. Which will you take - the standard door
(turn to 249) or the door with levers (turn to 213}?

304
You press the buttons on the homing device. Im-
mediately, the beast decelerates to comic slow mo-
tion, the air glows orange and strange other-worldly
scintillations arc about the cave. A door materializes
in front of the monster which, as it steps across the
threshold, vanishes from view — as if a curtain had
been slowly drawn over it from head to tail. The

395-397

door closes and evaporates, A hole appears in the
ground, out of which a shortish green fellow climbs.
‘One Scallopian Fang eradicated; that'll be either
one weapon, or two grenades, or four pieces of
armour, or any other piece of technology that you
might have upon your person, such as a gravity
bomb, infra-red goggles, nerve gas, etc. Failure to
pay will result in your instantaneous transmission
from this to another dimension.’ If you cannot pay
his price you have failed. If you can pay, delete the
item(s) from your Equipment List and turn to 196.

305
Roll three dice. If the result exceeds your STAMINA,
turn to 45. If the result is equal to or fess than your.
STAMINA, you have made it safely across to the
other bank — turn to 102,

You are on the north side ofa vastimpassable chasm
which runs from the west to east. The bottom is a
flat plain. The plain you are standing on continues
to the north, west and east; to the south you can see
the other side of the chasm. Will you go north (turn
to 84) or west (turn to 279), or follow the chasm east
(turn to 252)?

397
You avoid the shrubs. To the north, west and south
you can see rolling grass-covered plains, To the east
is a forest. Will you go north (turn to 179), west (turn
to 142), south (turn to 26) or east (turn to 343)?

308

308

The corridor takes a sharp turn and thrusts you into
a large room occupied by what appears to bea statue
of an alien deity on a pedestal — strange deity,
though, for it holds, in its six arms, six different
weapons, some of them very modern. Its insectoid
head contemplates you with uncountable eyes
while its many limbs and sinuous body begin to
writhe in a weird stop-go movement. Obviously it is
not a statue! The thing leaps from its pedestal and
attacks. During the battle it will use only one of its
weapons per combat round; which weapon used is
determined each combat round by rolling a die (see
below). You may throw a grenade if you have one.
Use the gunfire rules for all the deity’s weapons.

Bik ROLL WEAPON SKILL STAMINA DAMAGE
DEITY 3 whip rw }
2 bolos 5 2
s spear 7 1
‘é eloctric lash 8 . 2
5 assault blaster 6 tS
6 disentegrator 5 instant
destruction

If you defeat it, turn to 344.

309-310

399

Behind the door is a path, floating in mid-air at a
precipitous height over a wide and distant country-
side. It must be miles below you, yet it is still within
the Vandervecken. The path, looking tenuous and
unreassuring, flies arrow-straight into the distance.
You head across it, eventually arriving at a T-
junction — the path splits and flies off in two new
directions, neither offering a visible end to the pos-
sibility of a fatal drop, Will you follow the path left
(turn to 345) or right (turn to 50)?

310

The occupant of the sleep capsule looks quite hurt,
but, although he pouts a bit, he doesn’t say any-
thing. Will you stop threatening and try to be friend-
ly (turn to 346) or threaten the person some more
(turn to 292)?

311-313

311
You take out your deck of cards and ask the guards if
they would like a game. Turn to 146,

312

You fight them hand to hand. If you have read the
book on molluse nervous systems you inflict 1 extra
point of damage every time you hit the creatures.

SKILL STAMINA
First MUTANT 8 8
Second MUTANT 8 6

If you defeat them, turn to 366.

343

If you have just turned to this location, add 1 to your
status, Your vehicle is at point H, facing north.
After checking your status below, if you want to
move ahead to point E, turn to 82; if you want to
turn on the spot to face west, turn to 193; if you want
to turn on the spot to face east, turn to 265, STATUS:
ifsTATUS equals 4 or 11, turn to 9; ifit equals 14, turn
to 261; ifit equals 16, turn to 188; if it equals 5, 6, 12 or
13, turn to 33; ifit equals 7, turn to 66. (Remember to
return to 313, though.)

314

When you offer the can to the chief he takes it,
fiddles with it a bit, then presses the button on the
top — taking the spray directly in the face. He falls
over dead. The rest of the aliens are appalled and
leap at you with needle-sharp spears; the ferocity of
the attack breaches your armour. You collapse
under the wave of bodies, never to rise. You have
failed.

315
You jump, firing from the hip! Unfortunately, the
Sentinel below skids to one side, causing you to
land heavily on the floor. The ensuing crossfire from
the machines at point-blank range blows first your
armour and then you into atoms. You have failed.

316-317

316
Unfortunately, you succumb to the poison. You do
not recover consciousness.

The voice booms out
T MINUS FOUR MINUTES

as you leap into the room and begin frantically
searching. When the voice announces

T MINUS THREE MINUTES

you give up, jump back through the hatch and run
down the other branch of the tunnel, Turn to 2.

318-319

318

The second cell appears to be empty, but when you
enter, a screaming little ball of fur and legs drops
from above the door on to your shoulder. It is an
Imp! You knock it off with a sharp clout, but not
before it has damaged your armour with its fangs -
lose 1 ARMOUR point. It scuttles back up the wall
and glares down at you with red eyes. Ifyou haven't
already, you can look in the other cell (turn to 63);
otherwise you leave the room via the maintenance
hatch and tunnel (turn to 134).

319
The door slides to the side to expose a large labora-
tory. You don‘t have time to take in details, howev-
er, as a tiny silver sphere descends from a niche in
the roof and hits you with a laser blast — lose 1
ARMOUR point. You will have to fight it.

LASER GLOBE SKILL Q STAMINA 1

[f you defeat it, turn to 4.
320

320

‘Freeze!’ you yell, to attract his attention. He lowers
his hands from his face and glares at you with
red-rimmed eyes, You clamber into the room and
demand of him that he tell you which way to go to
reach Cyrus. He snorts derisively at you. ‘Go
through that door,’ he indicates the security door,
‘turn right and just follow the corridor.’ You turn to
the door, but he calls out, ‘Here, you'll need this,’
and throws you a small, narrow cylinder. ‘It’s a key
for all the security doors.’ You face the door, insert
the key into a hole next to it and step through the
doorway when it opens. Turn to 356,

321-323

321
The case contains two grenades. Add them to your
weapon list, but do not count them towards pack
limitations. Turn to 6.

322
After a short distance you come upon a fast-flowing
river Which cuts across your path. Will you attempt
to swim west, to the other side (turn to 7) or walk
either north (turn to 127), east (turn to 83) or south
(turn to 160)?

323
You are in a wide, open field surrounded by forest.
Will you go north (turn to 121), east (turn to 359),
west (turn to 27) or south (turn to 115)?
324-326

324
You are in the middle of a vast, still lake flanked by

towering cliffs. Looking down into the water you
notice a metallic glint from a large submerged
shape. You dive down to investigate and are con-
fronted by a small submarine, obviously in working
order but currently unoccupied, A tug on your heel
distracts you from your find, especially when you
turn to see that a house-sized octopoid Bivalve hasa
firm grip on your leg with one of its tentacles. It
drags you toward its shell, If you have read the book
on mollusc nervous systems, turn to 47; otherwise
turn to 85.

~~

a

po)
wy
PA :

325

In a shallow dell you come across a small village of
hemispherical adobe huts formed in a ring. In the
centre of this ring you can see a totem pole, There is
no movement or sign of life other than a few im-
probable-looking chickens scratching in the dust. If
you haven't been here before, you may go down
and have a closer look (turn to 246); otherwise you
decide to leave these hills {turn to 362).

VES

326
The book informs you that the creature is a Zark —a
member of a race of extremely intelligent but friend-
less aliens whose greatest interest is, rather strange-
ly, putting small furry creatures into boxes and
trying to prove to them that fhey (the Zarks) are
more intelligent and definitely more fun to be with
than any small furry critter. If the critters beg to

327-328

differ with the Zarks, then they quickly become just
so much salad. Unfortunately, the book continues,
the Zark, either through extreme boredom or short-
sightedness, has chosen to demonstrate these facts
to you. Will you attempt to answer the Zark’s ques-
tion (turn to 15) or take this to be a rather pointless
activity and fight it instead (turn to 383)?

327
You leave the room, leap into the waiting commuter
and zip back down the path, past the T-junction and
along the left-hand branch. Turn to 70.

328
You press the buttons on the homing device. Im-
mediately, the monster slows to an improbable rate,
the air glows orange and strange scintillations arc
and criss-cross the room. A hole materializes under
your foe and, as a consequence, it drops slowly out
of sight. The hole then shrinks to a pinprick and
evaporates, A small wooden hatch then slides out of
the roof and, upon opening, extends an enormous
green arm before your gaze. Its hand is open, as if
asking for something. Looking closer you see this
message tattooed on the palm: ‘One Tharn Doppel-
ganger eradicated; that'll be either one weapon,
or two grenades, or four pieces of armour, or any
other piece of technology that you might have upon
your person, such as a gravity bomb, infra-red
goggles, nerve gas, etc. Failure to pay will result in
your instantaneous transmission from this to

329~331

another dimension.’ If you cannot pay the price you
have failed, If you can pay, delete the item(s) from
your Equipment List and turn to 13.

329

You approach the last pair; they are immobile and
flank two identical doors. One of the devices rolls its
eyes at you and says: ‘The right door is the one yor
want.’ ‘Don’t listen to him,’ advises the other, ‘he
lies.’ ‘Only sometimes,’ retorts the first. Which door
will you go through — the right (turn to 131) or the
left (turn to 375)?

330
The grenade lands in the pool and explodes, send-
ing a huge spout of water to the roof and terrible
shock-waves through the pool. Roll the dice for
damage to the creatures and tum to 312.

33%

If you have just turned to this location, add 1 to your
STATUS. Your vehicle is at point B, facing east. After
checking your status below, if you want to move
ahead to point C, turn to 53; if you want to turn on
the spot to face south, turn to 91. status: if sTATUS
equals 3, turn to 33; if it equals 4, 5, 11 or 12, turn to
66; if it equals 10, turn to 188. (Remember to return
to 331, though.)

|
332-333

332

The tunnel continues forward for a few hundred
metres before ending at a landing. Alighting here,
you find yourself at an opening into a room whose
floor is covered by twenty very large and very odd
tiles set out and decorated in the fashion illustrated
on the opposite page (barring the numbers which,
as you will see, are superimposed for reference
only). You are standing on one side, while on the
other side of the room there is a door which presents
the only way forward. You know these tiles to be
remarkable due to a small message which is en-
graved into the floor at your feet:

STEP ON THE WRONG TILE AND [T’SGOODBYE

Which tiles will you step on to reach the other side?
When you have decided, add up all the numbers of
the tiles you intend to step on and turn to the
paragraph which equals that total. If the description
on that page does not make sense (in context), then
you have been blasted into your constituent atoms
and will have to start the adventure again. Note: the
numbers on the tiles have nothing to do with provid-
ing a solution to your problem,

333
You jump at a metal brace and swing for the open-

ing but, horror of horrors, the brace snaps and
sends you crashing to the floor between the two
Sentinels. Their point-blank crossfire blasts you to
atoms. You have failed.

334-336

You hear Cyrus scuffling around in the darkness.
There is a click followed by silence. Meanwhile, you
are searching for the light-switch. When you find it
and tur it on, you see that Cyrus has disappeared.
He couldn't have left through the door you entered
by, as light would have come through the opening.
There are no other exits ~ no visible exits anyway.
You search for a secret door, Test your Luck. If you
are Lucky, turn to 133. If you are Unlucky, turn to 57.

335
Will you go right (turn to 59) or left (turn to 175)?

336
The aliens halt their rush two metres or so from you,
form into a wide column and begin a complicated
shuffling dance, while another group of aliens,
apparently singing, shuffle slowly out of the village.
After the dance they lead you into the centre of the
village, where a couple of obviously very important
creatures officially welcome you in front of the
totem pole. The pole is made of wood but is topped
by something obviously not of their manufacture—a
small black square indented with a large red button.
If you would like to come into possession of this
device, turn to 148; otherwise turn to 350.

337-340

As you depress the button, your world falls apart in
soundless explosion — you never see what the safe
had hidden. You have failed,

As you cock your gun, a loud click resounds from the
weapon, alerting the man to your presence. His
hands fly from his face and, seeing you, he dives
from the bed into a corner, sending your first shot
astray. He draws a pistol from under a rag in the
corner. You shoot it out.

TECHNICIAN SKILL STAMINA 5
If you defeat him, turn to 248.
‘Nahh. . .’ exclaims one. ‘Don’t lie to us,’ says the

other. Little panels flick open in their bodies, reveal-
ing multiple blasters. You will have to fight them.

Turn to 71.

349
The beast is almost upon you. Will you fight it (turn

to 101) or run away (turn to 139)?

341-344

341
You are ona grass-covered plain which extends into
the west, south and east. In the north you can see
some low hills. A short distance away, in the centre
of the plain, you can see what might be a wooden
structure rising out of the grass. If you want to
investigate if, turn to 215; otherwise you can go
north (turn to 289), west (turn to 102), south (turn to
83) or east (turn to 159).

342
You cross the room and open the box. Inside it are
two large black levers side by side, Will you pull the
left one (turn to 263), the right one (turn to 299) or
leave the room alone (turn to 335)?

343
You are surrounded by a forest of short white trees

with blue foliage. Will you search the forest (turn to
217), or go north (turn to 227), west {turn to 235),
south (turn to 64) or east (turn to 253)?

344
The Deity collapses to the floor, smoke pouring ata
furious rate from the dozen or so holes that you
managed to smash into it. Through the thick atmos-
phere, on the other side of the room, you can see an
exit. Will you inspect the remains of the Deity (turn
to 218) or leave via the other exit (turn to 254)?

345-346

345
The path flies straight fora long while before ending
in another T-junction. Looking down, you can still
see the alien countryside, while to the left and right
the path hangs in the air, precipitous and unending.
Which way will you turn — left (turn to 70) or right
(turn to 219)?

346

You start chatting quite pleasantly, although you
don’t learn anything new. The moment you become
distracted, though, the person you are talking to
metamorphoses into a hideous bat-like creature
which attacks you. As you were taken completely
by surprise the monster hits you, doing 1 point of
damage to your Armour. Turn to 220.

347-349

347
You take out the container of ball-bearings and hold

it above your head. ‘Nobody move. This is a bomb
that'll blow us all to atoms if you just so much as
twitch.’ You then cackle to add effect. Nobody likes
a dangerous madman, least of all these domeheads.
They stand very still. You make them lie down and
throw away their blasters; while they are in this
unprotected state, you easily gag and tie them up.
The room has two other exits; one a security door
and the other a simple sliding door. Which will you
take: the security door (turn to 109) or the sliding
door (turn to 257)?

348
You spray the mutants, but with little effect. In fact,
the only thing you achieve is to empty the aerosol
can — cross it off your Equipment List. You will have
to fight the monsters. Turn to 204.

349
If you have just turned to this location, add 1 to your

status. Your vehicle is at point A, facing south.
After checking your status below, if you want to
move ahead to point D, turn to 130; if you want to
turn on the spot to face east, turn to 223. status: if
STATUS equals 3 or 4, turn to 188; if it equals 8 or 9,
turn to 33; if it equals 10, turn to 66. {Remember to
return to 349, though.)

359-351

350
The creatures seem to be quite friendly, but to
cement their goodwill you decide to give thema gift.
What will you give them:

Aerosol can of nerve gas? Turn ta 314

Enormous carnivore jaws? Turn to 17
A couple of pieces of

Orangey-purple fruit? Turn to 35
A piece of your technology? Turn to 260

If you don't have any of the first three, you will have
to give the fourth.

351
The Sentinels are smoking piles of debris, littering
the floor with smashed and burning parts. You
stride past them and through the exit, Turn to 369.

352-355

352
You struggle against unconsciousness and win! You
stand up, reeling drunkenly. Through the miasma
you see him standing by a table, You reach for your
gun — you're going to get this fellow! Turn to 262.

353
You scramble down into the unexplored passage.

The voice booms:
T MINUS THREE MINUTES

You reach another maintenance hatch at the end of
the tunnel. You fling it open. Turn to go.

354
Turn to 337.

355
If you have just turned to this location, add 1 to your

STATUS. Your vehicle is at point G, facing east. After
checking your status below, if you want to move
ahead to point H, turn to 265; if you want to turn on
the spot to face north, turn to 73. STATUS: if STATUS
equals 1, turn to 28; if it equals 7 or 16, turn to 33; if it
equals 8, turn to 66. (Remember to return to 355,
though.)

356
The door opens on to a long, well-lit corridor
stretching into the distance. Following it for a few
minutes you come across a door set in the left-iiand
wall. Will you open this door (turn to 5) or continue
down the corridor (turn to 100)?

357
The goggles are infra-red goggles. With them you

will be able to see perfectly in the darkest of condi-
tions. Turn to 6,

358
Roll three dice. If the result exceeds your STAMINA,
turn to 45. If the result is Jess than or equal to your
STAMINA, you have made it safely across to the
eastern bank — turn to 250.
359-360

You are in a forest of very tall bluish trees, all
covered by extremely long thorns. There is some
undergrowth in the form of shrubs and flowering
bushes. As you pass by a particularly large shrub, it
sends out a creeper which entwines itself around
your legs. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 8.
If you are Unlucky, you must fight the plant. If you
do not kill the plant after three combat rounds it has
dragged you into its mouth and killed you. The
plant will not damage you unless it gets you into its
mouth,

CARNIVOROUS
PLANT SKILLO STAMINA 6

if you defeat it, turn to 8.

360

You climb into the tunnel and surface in a small
room. It is quite obviously used to store garbage,
which enters via a chute in the ceiling and, when
there’s enough of it, is tipped down the tunnel you
just climbed up. There are two small maintenance
hatches in the room; one is labelled AaccELERATOR
48 while the other has TRANSTUBE 113-24 stencilled
on it. Both open into narrow access tunnels. Which
will you enter: the accelerator tunnel (turn to 72) or
the transtube tunnel (turn to 129)?

pe eeeeeeeeeer—C‘( eee

361-362

361
Will you go north (turn to 104), west (turn to 253),
south (turn to 342) or east (turn to 142)?

362

The tunnel hangs around you like a dark, cavernous
maw, as you walk out along the narrow landing. As
soon as you reach the end, at the exact centre of the
tunnel, you are swept off you feet by what feels like
a powerful current of water, You fly down the
centre of the tunnel, into the darkness, obviously
being supported by an anti-gravity field. The sensa-
tion, after your initial alarm at being swept from
your feet has worn off, is quite pleasant. You fly
along in the dark for only a short period when
another landing, leading to a door, appears in front
of you. Will you attempt to leave the anti-gravity
current at this landing (turn to 11) or will you just
drift for a while longer (turn to 49)?

363-364

363

The man smiles, and tears of joy spring into hi:
eyes: he tries to stroke your hand with a tentacle,
The effort is a bit much though; his eyes start to roll
and he looks as if he is about to lose consciousness.
Before he does, he motions that he wants to whisper
to you. ‘Take the middle, always the middle,’ He
passes out. Turn to 327,

364

You point the book which says: ‘It's a Tharn Doppel-
ganger. Extremely dangerous but easy enough to
get rid of — I'll just produce a random modulated
tone...” A high-pitched whistle then emanates
from the book but, instead of scaring the monster
away, it seems to infuriate iteven more. You fight it
hand to hand.

THARN
DOPPELGANGER — sxi1Lg

If you defeat it, turn to 13.

STAMINA G6

365-366

365

If you have just turned to this location, add 1 to your
sTaTus. Your vehicle is at point C, facing west.
After checking your status below, if you want to
move ahead to point B, turn to 167; if you want to
turn on the spot to face south, turn to 53. status: if
STATUS equals 4, 5 or 12, turn to 176; if it equals 3,
turn to 66; if it equals 10 or 11, turn to 33; ifit equals 1
or 2, turn to 188. (Remember to return to 365,
though.)

366
The bodies of the creatures float gently on the
surface of the pool. You run to the exit. Turn to 373.

367-368

367
You shuffle the cards and try to think of some trick

to confound the creature. ‘If I have fifty-two cards of
normal design here,’ you begin, ‘and I take out two,
one of which you know to be of greater value than
seven ..." ‘Ace high?’ it asks, suspicious. ‘Of
course,’ you continue; ‘I then remove at least five
other cards, of which two are specified by you, two
by me and one or more left up to chance. Furth-
ermore, if I now take out the highest card left in the
pack and place it to one side—whatis the probability
of successfully guessing the value of the card that is
twelfth in value behind the second highest card in
the deck?’ Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to
149. If you are Unlucky, turn to 259.

368

The creatures form a crush around you and lead off
to the south, singing and dancing all the while.
After a number of kilometres you leave the hills and
cTOss a grass-covered plain, arriving, eventually, at
a pierina river. The aliens make it obvious that they
want you to have one of the sturdy-looking canoes
tethered there. Will you take one of the canoes and
paddle downstream (turn to 96) or will you decline
their offer and leave the tribe by foot (turn to 168)?
369
369

The opening leads into a narrow corndor which,
after twisting and winding for a while, ends in a
door, Going through this you find yourself in what
is obviously the ship's bridge; there are panoramic
visuals, holographic plotters and maps, and scores
of comlinks. In front of you, standing before a
control panel with which it is connected by an
umbilical cord, is the ship's pilot — a stunningly
wrought humanoid robot. Its chromium limbs send
reflections skittering across the walls as it turns to
face you. ‘Ah, you've arrived,’ it says, almost smil-
ing. ‘I've been quite looking forward to chatting
with such an interesting person.’ Will you talk with
the pilot (turn to 18) or assume it’s trying to get your
guard down and attack it (turn to 94)?

-

370

As you dive at him again he throws the device in
your face while scuttling nimbly to the other side of
the room, where he gives a hanging picture a sharp
twist. A small secret panel opens and Cyrus dives
through. The panel shuts, You notice that the de-
vice that Cyrus threatened you with is nothing more
than the clockwork mechanism from an ancient
clock. "Must be his hobby,’ you mutter to yourself as
you twist the picture to open the secret panel. When
it obliges, you dive through into a chute, after the
scientist. Turn to 171.

371-374

371
Turn to 288.

372

The crate is almost full of an orangey-purple fruit.
As you stir it around a bit with one hand, you notice
that all the squirrel-things have become silent and
are staring hungrily at you. Will you taste a bit of the
fruit (turn to 388), pocket a few pieces (turn to 393)
or leave everything in the room alone and proceed
along the corridor outside (turn to 118)?

. 373-375

|

373
Through the opening is a chamber occupied by a

brutish-looking extra-terrestrial draped in large
sheets of armour-plate and toting a whopping great
disintegrator — aimed at you. In the wall behind this
unfriendly being are three large circular doors.
‘Stop! it says, peering at you with a pair of close-set
beady eyes. ‘To pass, you must answer my question
.-. if you think you are intelligent enough.’ Will
you attempt to answer the creature's as yet unasked
question (turn to 15), look in your pack for some
other means of passing it (turn to 295), or forget
about niceties and just blast it (turn to 383)?

ui

374
If you have just turned to this location, add 1 to your

status, Your vehicle is at point D, facing north.
After checking your status below, if you want to
move ahead to point A, turn to 223; if you want to
turn on the spot to face east, turn to 380. sTATUSs: if
STATUS equals 8, turn to 188; if it equals 10, turn to
261; if it equals 9, turn to 66. (Remember to return to
374, though.)

You open the door and are engulfed by a fierce,
blue, electric fire. Roll three dice and subtract the
total from your STAMINA. If this hasn’t killed you,
then you slam this door shut and go through the
other — turn to 131.

376-378

376
The button depresses, making the safe’s dial pulsate
with a fluorescent white light. Which button will
you press next — blue (turn to 354) or green (turn to
205)?

You press the two buttons on the device. An orange
light pervades the room as white vapours arc
around the creature. A small cage-like elevator
materializes around the frozen alien which is then
winched away by unseen forces through the ceiling
of the room. The weird light subsides a bit before
this message floats in front of you: ‘One Zark elimin-
ated; payment for this service will be either one
weapon, or two grenades, or four pieces of armour,
orany other piece of technology that you might have
upon your person, such asa gravity bomb, infra-red
goggles, nerve gas, etc. Failure to pay will result in
your instantaneous transmission to the dimension
of our choice.’ If you cannot pay the price, then you
have failed, otherwise cross the item(s) from your
Equipment List and turn to 97.

378
Brushing past the sign and strolling down a short
corridor, you enter a room whose surfaces all glow
with a faint greenish light. Odd. There are large
cracks in all the walls, through which thousands of
shiny granules or pellets have poured, spilling
across the floor. You pick a handful of these up to
have a closer look. You recognize them as being

379-380

plutonium pellets, which means that you have cer-
tainly received a fatal dose of radiation —- enough to
kill you within hours and immobilize you within
minutes. You slump to the floor in despair, awaiting
your doom, You have failed.

You manage to back one of the squirrel-things into a
corner, then, with a leap, you snare it. It squeals a
bit but does not try to escape from your grasp;
instead, it looks at you with wide imploring eyes
and stretches a couple of paws toward the open
crate. Stepping over to this, you see that it is almost
full of an orangey-purple fruit. When the critter sees
the fruit it stretches even harder, asifto graspa tasty
morsel. Will you give the little fellow a piece of the
fruit (turn to 186), try a piece yourself first (turn to
388), or just ignore the crate and, with the squirrel-
thing, leave the room and proceed along the corri-
dor (turn to 118)?

380

If you have just turned to this location, add 1 to your
STATUS. Your vehicle is at point D, facing east. After
checking your status below, if you want to move
ahead to point E, turn to 386; if you want to tum on
the spot to face north, turn to 374; if you want to turn
on the spot to face south, turn to 130. status: if
STATUS equals 8, turn to 188; if it equals 6, turn to
261; if it equals 14 or 15, turn to 123; if it equals 13,
turn to 161; ifit equals 2, turn to 28; ifit equals 9, turn
to 66. (Remember to return to 380, though.)

381

381

You go through the door and into a dark, cluttered
room; all sorts of monitoring equipment, crash
couches, controls and visuals are crammed into the
tiny amount of available space, Seating yourself in
the most comfertable-looking of the eight or nine
chairs present, you cast about for some purpose to
all this. Suddenly, the lights fail, your chair sinks
into the floor and a synthesized voice starts up:
‘Congratulations, you have selected the “Let's fight
to the finish” scenario of the street-fighting war-
game. You will be commanding an XM3 Main Battle
Assault Vehicle armed with a 4000 Bevawatt Phaser
while your opponent will be using the lighter but
faster US11 Tank Destroyer armed with a 6000
Bevawatt Phaser. Good luck.’ The lights come back
on. You are at the controls of an armoured assault
vehicle. Through the single visual scanner in the
cockpit (which, dangerously, only allows you to see
what is to the front of your vehicle and nothing to
the side or rear), you can see a couple of blocks of
flats.

You will now have to learn a few rules of combat.
Turn to the back of the book and you will see a map
of the area in which you will be fighting and a
score-sheet for use with this scenario.

The Vehicles: Instead of using your own ARMOUR or
STAMINA in this battle, you will be using the
SHIELDS of the vehicles. Your vehicle’s defence level
is 5 SHIELDS while your opponent's is only 4. Note
the section set aside on the score-sheet for scoring
381

hits against each other — the numbers are there to
cross off as hits are given or received, Each hit
received will reduce the number of SHIELDS carried
by 1, When the number of SHIELDS carried by a
vehicle reaches zero then that vehicle and its occu-
pant are destroyed. When you fire at your oppo-
nent, roll two dice. If the result is less tha your
SKILL, you have hit your opponent. If the result is
equal to or greater thant your SKILL, then you have
missed. Enemy fire —- when it occurs — will be
explained during the battle.

Status: STATUS is used tO move your opponent's
vehicle around the battlefield. During the course of
the battle you will be instructed to change your
STATUS and to check it against certain values pro-
vided —it is essential that you follow all instructions
regarding it. Its value progresses from 1 to 16; if your
STATUS reaches 17, then reduce it to 1. Every time
you move your vehicle to a new location or turn on
the same spot, you mustadd 1 to yoursTaTus (there
are continual reminders at each location to do this,
so you shouldn’t forget). [f you use the score-sheet,
you should easily be able to keep track of your
STATUS. YOur STATUS now, just before starting, is
zero = circle this value now, and all future additions
for easy reference. This should all become a lot
clearer once you begin.

382

Moving: It is absolutely essential to use the map to
keep track of your location on the battlefield, as
reference to movement is given in terms of the
points on the map (A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I). Your
vehicle must continually move — you cannot sit in
one location and wait for your opponent to appear.
Turn to 223.

382

The spheres part before you as you stride boldly
forward. Over the other side and through the door
you find yourself in a high-ceilinged hall. Down
both sides of this hall, standing on short stone
pedestals, is a small but weird collection of simu-
lated life-forms. They stand, facing one another
across the floor — aluminium birds, tungsten-steel
turtles with six legs, and creatures you don’t even
recognize, There are eight in all, You walk slowly
down the middle of the room. As you draw level
with the first pair they come to life, swivelling
slightly to face you.

‘The moon is red, the sky is pink,’ says the first.
‘Which is faster, light or time?’ asks the second.
What will you answer — light (turn to 89) or time
(turn to 225)?
381

hits against each other — the numbers are there to
cross off as hits are given or received. Each hit
received will reduce the number of sHiELDS carried
by 1. When the number of SHIELDs carried by a
vehicle reaches zero then that vehicle and its occu-
pant are destroyed. When you fire at your oppo-
nent, roll two dice. If the result is less than your
SKILL, you have hit your opponent. If the result is
equal to or greater than your sxtii, then you have
missed, Enemy fire — when it occurs — will be
explained during the battle,

Status: STATUS is used to move your opponent's
vehicle around the battlefield. During the course of
the battle you will be instructed to change your
status and to check it against certain values pro-
vided ~ it is essential that you follow ail instructions
regarding it. Its value progresses from 1 to 16; if your
STATUS reaches 17, then reduce it to 1. Every time
you move your vehicle to a new location er turn on
the same spot, you must add 1 to yoursTATUS (there
are continual reminders at each location to do this,
so you shouldn’t forget). If you use the score-sheet,
you should easily be able to keep track of your
STATUS. Your STATUS now, just before starting, is
zero — circle this value now, and all future additions
for easy reference. This should all become a lot
clearer once you begin,

382

Moving: It is absolutely essential to use the map to
keep track of your location on the battlefield, as
reference to movement is given in terms of the
points on the map (A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I). Your
vehicle must continually move — you cannot sit in
one location and wait for your opponent to appear.
Turn to 223.

382

The spheres part before you as you stride boldly
forward, Over the other side and through the door
you find yourself in a high-ceilinged hall. Down
both sides of this hall, standing on short stone
pedestals, is a small but weird collection of simu-
lated life-forms. They stand, facing one another
across the floor — aluminium birds, tungsten-steel
turtles with six legs, and creatures you don't even
recognize. There are eight in all. You walk slowly
down the middle of the room. As you draw level
with the first pair they come to life, swivelling
slightly to face you.

‘The moon is red, the sky is pink,’ says the first.
‘Which is faster, light or time?’ asks the second.
What will you answer — light (turn to 89) or time
(turn to 225)?

Eee
383-386

383
Note that the extra-terrestrial is armed with a disin-
tegrator which will destroy you instantly with just
one hit.

ZARK SKILL5
If you defeat it, turn to 392.

STAMINA

384
Still firing at the monster, you run out of time,
drifting straight into its cavernous maw. With one
bite of its many teeth it finishes you. You have
failed.

385
Turn to 337.

386

If you have just turned to this location, add 1 to your
status, Your vehicle is at point E, facing east. After
checking your status below, if you want to move
ahead to point F, you can either turn to 110 (to finish
facing north) or to 136 (to finish facing south); if you
want to turn on the spot (E) then turn to 82 to face
north, or to 22 to face south, status: if status
equals 6, 13 or 14, turn to 66; if if equals 5 or 12, turn
to 188; if it equals 2, turn to 176; ifit equals 15, turn to
261. (Remember to return to 386, though.)

387-389

7

‘Right,’ says one. ‘Yup,’ says the other. The turn
away and stare at the ceiling. Walking past these,
you are hailed by the next couple. ‘Hey, you, hel-
met-head .. .’ cries the first. “Yeah, where are you
going?’ asks the other. What will you answer; the
truth, that you are trying to find Cyrus (turn to 221),
or a fabrication, that you are inspecting the ship as
part of a security check (turn to 339)?

Lifting the visor on your helmet, you take one bite
of the fruit and then black out, never recovering
consciousness. You have failed,

‘Yeah, yeah,’ you say, waving aside the robot's
question, ‘Look, all that garbage aside, ] want to
know where ..." ‘Yes,’ cuts in the pilot, icily, ‘I
know what you want, pleb, | know shat you tink
you want, and I know where you can find him. But,
lalso know what you actually want, what you really
need." ‘What?’ you ask, wondering what super-
weapon the pilot is going to reveal for your use,
‘What you really needis. . . tis!’ The robot presses
a switch on the control panel, Instantly, panels in
the floor and ceiling slide away, allowing the stasis
generators hidden behind them to grip you in a
glove of timelessness. Frozen, unconscious and in
enemy hands, you have failed.

390-392

390
The squirrel-thing jumps from your grasp and
bounds over toward the extra-terrestrial. If you fed
the squirrel-thing some of the orangey-purple fruit
earlier, turn to 111; otherwise turn to 92.

391

If you have just turned to this location, add 1 to your
status, Your vehicle is at point F, facing west. After
checking your status below, if you want to move
ahead to point E, turn to 216; if you want to turn on
the spot to face north, turn to 110; if you want to turn
on the spot to face south, turn to 136. status: if
STATUS equals 6, turn to 176; if it equals 9, turn to
123; ifit equals 13, turn to 9; if it equals 1, turn to 188;
if it equals 2 or 15, turn to 66; if it equals 14, turn to
33. (Remember to return to 391, though.)

392-394

392
The Zark is destroyed but, to your disappointment,
no doubt, you find that its disintegrator is designed
in such an unearthly fashion that you cannot use it.
You inspect the three doors in the opposite wall.
Turn to 97.

393
You slip a few pieces of the fruit in your pack, then,

seeing nothing else of interest, you leave the room
and continue along the corridor. Turn to 118.

394
You rip the sachet open and sprinkle the contents

liberally over both mutants. Eyes glaze over, tenta-
cles ripple back into tiny knotted balls and the
clicking increases to a high-pitched squeal. They
both drop into the water and disappear into dense
clouds of smoky-black ink. You run the rest of the
distance to the exit. Turn to 373.

395-396

395

Behind the door is a biological laboratory and,
evidently, museum. There are whole shelves full of
grisly reminders of some of Cyrus’s previous experi-
ments on living creatures: whole organs and limbs
are preserved in jars in long rows reaching to the
ceiling. Not all the remains are human. On an
operating table in the centre of the room, sur-
rounded by instruments of surgery, is the prone
and unconscious figure of a man with tentacles
instead of arms. He is strapped down. Will you go
up to the man (turn to 291) or give the whole nasty
scene a wide berth (turn to 327)?

396
You press the buttons on the homing device. Im-

mediately, the guards are surrounded by a pulsing
orange light which seems to freeze them. After a
moment, a pair of revolving doors materialize
around them and promptly turn, taking the unwit-
ting security officers out of sight.. The doors con-
tinue to turn around a couple of times before eva-
porating. There is no sign of the guards. The floor of
the room (apart from the few tiles you are standing
on) disappears as well, to reveal a truly enormous
giant standing on some hyperspatial mountain. It
speaks: ‘Payment for those two will be either two
weapons, or four grenades, or eight pieces of
armour, or any two other pieces of technology that
you might possess, such as a gravity bomb, infra-
red goggles, nerve gas, etc. Failure to pay will result

397-398

in your instantaneous transmission from this
dimension to another, of my choice." If you cannot
pay this price, then you have failed. If you can pay,
delete the items from your Equipment List and turn
to 203,

397
Will you go north (turn to 142), west (turn to 341),
south (turn to 121) or east (turn to 26)?

398
The corndor continues for a very long while and still
stretches into the distance when you come across

another security door on the side. This one is sten-
cilled:

CEPHALO SQUIRRELS
HANDLE WITH CARE

Will you enter this room (turn to 230) or continue
down the corridor (turn to 118)?

.

399

Turn to 337.

400
You drag the unconscious Cyrus from the Waldo.
Your mission is a complete success. Congratula-
ions.
GAME GRID SCORE SHEET

N YOUR STATUS ENEMY
A B c TANK zero TANK
—
\ } : fe 4: A 5 obs P
| 4 9 10 1F 12 13 14 15 16 .
| 5 Fr ee WAU Cs ML Fer ut zs
s 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 5
erent 5, earns . 1 ; ; = ‘s S oe Fs s destroyed
eeeevecneaprasessseteny Seoateeetes destroved i 4 15
Wor. t F DE welt 235 4 5 67 8
I \ g 10 11 12 13 14 15 16
| | | i 2 3 4 56 7 8
g 10 11 12 13 14 15 16
|
Seerecaen ,
G H 1
a
S
Steve Jackson's

SORCERY! 1

‘Yourscarch forthe legendary Crown of Kings fakes you to
the Shamulanti Hils” Alive with ell eeatures,lwless
wanderers and bloodhirsty monsters, the land fs idea
‘with nicks and tape walling for the unary traveller Will
Yyou be able to cross the hils safely and proceed to the
Second part ofthe adventure ~ or will you perish inthe
attempt

SORCERY! 2
KHARé - crrvrorr oF TRAPS

Asa wareorelng on force of arms, ora wizard tained in
magic your must brave the teror of ty bul fo tap the
tunwary. You will ned ll your wits about you to survive
the unimaginable horrors aesd ae to make sense of the
‘ues which may lad to you sucesso Lo your doom!

SORCERY! 3

Seven deadly and magical serpents speed ahead of yu to
‘warn theevl Archmageof yourcoming. Willyou beable to
catch them before they get there?

SORCERY! 4

_Atthe end of yourlong re, you face the unknown terrors
‘ofthe Mampang Fortes, Hidden inside the Keep isthe
‘Crown of Kings the eltimate goal ofthe Sorcry epi, But
‘beware! For if you have not defeted the Seven Serpents,
yourarsval hasbeen antipated

Complete with all the magical spells you wil
‘need, each book canbe played ether on sown,
bras patof the wholeepic
FIGHTING FANTASY
The introductory Role-playing game
Steve Jackson

The world of Fighting Fantasy, peopled by Orcs, dragons,
zombies and vampires, has captured the imagination of
millions of readers world-wide. Thrilling adventures of
sword and sorcery come to life in the Fighting Fantasy
Gamebooks, where the reader is the hero, dicing with
death and demons in search of villains, treasure or free-
dom.

Now YOU can create your own Fighting Fantasy adven-
tures and send your friends off on dangerous missions! In
this clearly written handbook, there are hints on devising
combats, monsters to use, tricks and tactics, as well as two
mini-adventures complete with GamesMaster's notes for
you to start with, Literally countless adventures await you!

WHAT IS DUNGEONS AND DRAGONS?
Jolin Butterfield, Phitiy Parker, David Honigmann

A fascinating guide to the greatest of all role-playing
games: it includes detailed background notes, hints on
play and dungeon design, strategy and tactics, and will
prove invaluable for players and beginners alike.
Another Adventure Gamebook

MAELSTROM
Alexander Scott

Imagine a band of travellers on the Jong road from St
Albans to London - a dangerous journey in troubled times.
Which will ¥ OU be—an alchemist, skilled in the dark arts of
magick, a rogue on the run from justice, a noble lady on her
way to stir up intrigue at court, a spy disguised as a
herbalist carrying vital messages to the King, or any one of
a host of different characters . . .

Y OU choose the characters, YOU decide the missions and
YOU have the adventures in the turbulent world of
Europe in the sixteenth century ~ either asa player or as the
referee.

Complete with Beginners’ and Advanced Rules, Referee's
Noles, maps, charts and a solo adventure to get you
started, Maelstrom isa great game for three or more players.
