-—

arr,

i

Pe

b system,

> eee

pub
an b

o-

oy adventur

nt. /

All YO! ‘|

FVLP.

an eri set

‘neec i

f After a1 for rue -k qi er viru: |, a Va st, bar-
the world. Surv ivor rs like you eit ther £ liv:
in $c itteres fortified towns or roam
outside as bandits. Life is law less and
dangero us. -
VEU ID? os} Sey | ee eee
YOUR mis 10n ts to cros: the w: ilderne is
to th e far-distant oil-refinery at San
Anglo and bring vil al supplies back to
the p eaceful town o f New Hope. Even in
the 4 es ee ige Interceptor you re

3 3 in extended com-

tw vo dice, a pen ati -
ae = ChE PS - : $ “ .
‘decic ef > which w; iy tog D, which wv y papon:
to use and which da ngers ‘to risk’
TCLITINIG E racy ROOKC
Tis! TING F: NLS YY BOOKS
a world-wide sensation!
mini Mini)

: Sti
780140°31i
ISBN O-1}

‘ ro

2
OORT)
Po yw ™N

d

_+
NW

_

x eo ees

-

Pree
ein
@ \f
x

eed

_

a

ff.

|
.O-4 — .
Ol « a an ” df
—

LO te te

————

a

:
:
.
:

PUFFIN BOOKS
FREEWAY FIGHTER

Devastated by a rogue killer virus, all that remains of the
world you once knew Is a vast, barbaric wilderness. Survi-
vors like yourself either live in scattered, fortified towns, or
roam outside as bandits. Life is lawless and dangerous.

YOUR mission is to cross the wilderness to the far-distant
vil-refinery at San Angelo and bring vital supplies back to
your peaceful hometown of New Hope. Even in the armed
Dodge Interceptor you are given, the journey will be wild
and perilous. Will YOU survive?

lan Livingstone, co-founder of the highly successful Games
Workshop and editor of White Dwarf, has created a thrilling
adventure set in the not too distant future. Freemay Fighter is
complete with an extended combat system and a double
adventure sheet to record your gains and losses. All YOU
need is two dice, a pencil and an eraser.

Many dangers lic ahead and your success is by no means
certain. Powerful adversaries are ranged against you and
often your only hope is to kill or be killed!

———_—

>. eee ee £ Pees: pees

PUFFIN BOOKS
FREEWAY FIGHTER

Devastated by a rogue killer virus, all that remains of the
world you once knew is a vast, barbaric wilderness. Survi-
vors like yourself either live in scattered, fortified towns, or
roam outside as bandits. Life is lawless and dangerous.

YOUR mission is to cross the wilderness to the far-distant
oil-refinery at San Angelo and bring vital supplies back to
your peaceful hometown of New Hope. Even in the armed
Dodge Interceptor you are given, the journcy will be wild
and perilous. Will YOU survive?

lan Livingstone, co-founder of the highly successful Games
Workshop and editor of White Duurf, has created a thnilling
adventure set in the not too distant future. Freetry Fighter is
complete with an extended combat system and a double
adventure sheet fo record your gains and losses. All YOU
need is two dice, a pencil and an eraser

Many dangers lic ahead and your success is by no means
certain. Powerful adversaries are ranged against you and
often your only hope is to kill or be killed!

a~n) Oi +S Ww NF

|
et ee ee ee ee ee ee ee
Ow SN Dat wW Nw OM

1
2,
3

4.

The Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks

THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP MOUNTAIN -
THE CITADEL OF CHAOS ~

THE FOREST OF DOOM -
STARSHIP TRAVELLER —

CITY OF THIEVES —
DEATHTRAP DUNGEON
ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING
SCORPION SWAMP

CAVERNS OF THE SNOW WITCH
HOUSE OF HELL —

TALISMAN OF DEATH ~- ~
SPACE ASSASSIN

FREEWAY FIGHTER = -
TEMPLE OF TERROR

THE RINGS OF KETHER

SEAS OF BLOOD
APPOINTMENT WITH F.E.A.R.
REBEL PLANET

DEMONS OF THE DEEP

TRIAL OF CHAMPIONS

Steve Jackson's SORCERY!
The Shamutanti Hills
Kharé — Cityport of Traps
The Seven Serpents
The Crown of Kings

FIGHTING FANTASY -— The: Role-playing
Game

OUT OF THE PIT Fighting Fantasy Monsters

Ian Livingstone

—1)

WLI OD

Ueastreted by Kevin Bulmer

Puffin Books

opr © te gtene 5
she pra is

met Bp une by

Sins hat yap eerie,

For Ronnie
CONTENTS

PERSONAL ABILITIES
9

CAR SPECIFICATIONS

11

COMBAT
13
CREDITS
17

ADVENTURE SHEETS
18

FREEWAY FIGHTER
22

Personal Abilities

As in previous Fighting Fantasy Gamebvoks, your
abilities will be determined by dice rolls and entered
on your Adventure Sheet on pages 18-21. Your three
abilities are as follows.

Skill
Roll one die, Add 6 to this number and enter the
total in the sKILL box on the Adventure Sheet. Your
SKILL score Is a measure of your driving, mechanical
and fighting abilities. skILL may increase or de-
crease slightly during your journey, but may never
exceed its Initial value.

Stamina

Roll two dice, Add 24 to the number rolled and enter
the total in the sTAMINA box on the Adventure Sheet.
Your STAMINA score is a measure of your physical
fitness and constitution. Your STAMINA score will
reduce as injuries are sustained. The Med-Kit in
your jacket contains ten packs of medical supplies to
help heal wounds. Using the Med-Kit restores 4
STAMINA points. You may use the Med-Kit at any
time except when engaged in combat, but remem-
ber to deduct a pack from your Adventure Sheet each
time you use the Med-Kit. Remember also that your
STAMINA score may never exceed its [nitial! value.

Luck
Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter the
total in the LUCK box on the Adventure Sheet. Your

9

LUCK score is a measure of fate and fortune in your
life, At various times during your journey, either in
combat or when you come across situations in
which you could either be lucky or unlucky (details
of these are given on the pages themselves), you
may call on your Luck to make the outcome more
favourable. But beware! Using Luck is a risky busi-
ness, and if you are unlucky, the results could be
disastrous.

The procedure for using your Lucx is as follows: roll
two dice, If the number rolled is equal to or less than
your current LUCK score, you have been Lucky and
the result will go in your favour, If the number
rolled is higher than your current LUCK score, you
have been Unlucky and you will be penalized.

This procedure is known as Testing your Luck, Each
time you Test your Luck, you must subtract 1 point
from your current LUCK score. Thus you will soon
realize that the more you rely on your Luck, the
more risky this will become. Additions to your LUCK
score may be awarded during your journey when
you have been particularly lucky. Remember that
your LUCK score may never exceed its Initial value.

Car Specifications

Your car's armour and weaponry will also be deter-
mined by dice rolls and entered on the Adventure
Siicet. Its two main features are as follows:

Firepower

Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter the
total in the FrREPOWER box on the Adventure Sheet.
The FIREPOWER score is a measure of the car's
engine power and the effectiveness of its machine-
guns. FIREPOWER may increase or decrease during
your journey, but may never exceed its Initial value.
(The use of the car’s rocket-launcher is explained
below under ‘Vehicle Combat’.)

Armour
Roll two dice. Add 24 to this number and enter the
total in the ARMOUR box on the Adventure Sheet. The
ARMOUR score is a measure of the car's defences.

In addition to its machine-guns and an unlimited
supply of bullets, the car also carries missile
weapons which may be used during combat. You
have at your disposal four rockets (see ‘Vehicle
Combat’), and three canisters of iron spikes and two
rear-mounted oil sprays with one canister of oil
each, which may be used when the option is given.
These missiles must be crossed off your Adventure
Sheet when used.

Fuel may be acquired during the journey and
should be entered on the Adventure Sheet in the

i1

space provided. Other modifications to and acces-
sories for your car, which are acquired during the
journey, should also be entered on the Adventure
Sheet. ARMOUR may increase or decrease during the
adventure as a result of damage or repairs to your
Interceptor, but may never exceed its Jnitial value,

12

Combat

During your journey, you will certainly encounter
some nasty characters who will attack you either
while you are driving or when you are on foot. In
gaming terms, there are three types of simultaneous
combat.

Hand Fighting
Hand Fighting covers all non-missile hand-to-hand
combat including hand-held weapons such as a
baseball bat. The combat sequence for Hand Fight-
ing is as follows:

1. Roll two dice. Add your opponent's sKILL score
to the roll. The resulting total is your opponent's
Attack Strength.

. Roll two dice. Add your SKILL score to the roll.
The resulting total is your Attack Strength.

3. Ifyouropponent’s Attack Strength is higher than

your own, you have been hit. Proceed to step 6.

4. If your Attack Strength is higher than your oppo-
nent's, you have hit him or her. Proceed to step
6,

. If both Attack Strengths are equal, both attacks
have missed, Start the next Attack Round from
step 1 above.

6. A successful ‘hit causes injury which is repre-
sented by deductions from the injured party’s
STAMINA score, A bare-handed punch reduces a
person’s STAMINA by 1 point, but hand-held
weapons such as a baseball bat cause additional
injuries as ruled.

tv

“vl

13

a _ .._) __)_

7. Start the next Attack Round (repeat steps 1-6
above) and continue until either you or your
opponent has suffered the loss of 6 STAMINA
points.

8. If your opponent is the first to lose 6 STAMINA
points, he or she will be knocked outand you will
be able to continue your journey.

g. If you are the first to lose 6 STAMINA points, you
will be knocked out and will learn of your fate at
the next reference you are sent to, Of course, if
during Hand Fighting your sTAMINA is reduced
to zero, you will be dead.

Shooting
Shooting rules cover hand-guns, rifles, throwing-
) knives, bows and arrows, etc. (Your own revolver is
assumed to have unlimited ammunition.) The com-
bat sequence for shooting is as follows:

1. Roll two dice. Add your opponent's SKILL score
to the roll, The resulting total is your opponent's
Attack Strength.
2. Roll two dice. Add your sk!Lt score to the roll.
The resulting total is your Attack Strength,
3. Ifyour opponent's Attack Strength is higher than
your own, you have been hit. Proceed to step 6.
4. [f your Attack Strength is higher than your oppo-
nent’s, you have hit him or her. Proceed to step
| 6.
s. If both Attack Strengths are equal, both attacks
have missed. Start the next Attack Round from
step 1 above.

14

See ee

6. A successful hit causes injury which is repre-

sented by deductions from the injured party’s
STAMINA. Missile weapons cause varying
amounts of injury. Roll one die and deduct this
number from the injured party’s sTAMINA. This
is to reflect the fact that a bullet, for example,
might cause only a minor flesh wound, or could
kill outright,

Start the next Attack Round (repeat steps 1-6
above) and continue until either your own or
your opponent's STAMINA score is reduced to
zero (death).

Vehicle Combat

Yehicle Combat usually refers to machine-gun bat-

]

1.

tles between vehicles. Your Interceptor has a turret-
mounted, computer-controlled machine-gun that
can fire in all directions, The sequence for Vehicle
Combat is as follows:

Roll two dice, Add the FrREPOWER score of your
opponent's vehicle to the roll. The resulting total
is your opponent's Attack Strength,

- Roll two dice, Add the rrrerower score of your

Interceptor to the roll. The resulting total is your
Attack Strength.

. If your opponent's Attack Strength is higher than

your own, your Interceptor has been hit. Proceed
ta step 6.

. If your Attack Strength is higher than your oppo-

nent’s, you have hit his or her vehicle. Proceed ta
step 6.

45
—

5. If both Attack Strengths are equal, both attacks
have missed. Start the next Attack Round from
step 1 above, .

6. A successful hit causes damage to a vehicle
which is represented by deductions from its
ARMOUR score, Roll one die and deduct this
number from the vehicle’s ARMOUR score,

_ Start the next Attack Round (repeat steps 1-6
above) and continue until the ARMOUR score
either of your Interceptor or of your opponent's
vehicle is reduced to zero (destroyed). It is
assumed that the driver of a destroyed car is
automatically killed in the resulting crash or ex-
plosion.

“I

If, during Vehicle Combat, you wish to launch a
rocket at a target instead of firing your machine-gun
at it, you may do so before the start of any Attack
Round, remembering to delete one rocket from your
Adventure Sheet. A hit will be automatic and will
destroy any target.

16

Credits

Credits are the emergency currency units of the
twenty-first century, known familiarly as ‘creds’.
You start your journey with 200 Credits (see your
Adventure Sheet), but are likely to spend and/or
acquire more Credits along the way. However, most
people distrust Credits and prefer to barter. You
may, for instance, have to use some of your Med-Kit
in barter; if so, delete what you spend from your
Adventure Sheet as usual.

17

ADVENTURE SHEETS
. ‘ ‘
DRIVER'S NAME: 3 3
———— o oO
SKILL [12 STAMINA[ZS | Luck (fi)
Current Skill) ae Ye Spare Current Luck: DODGE INTERCEPTOR: SPECIFICATION
2 Ber ? Zh }
{ FIREPOWER [ 72 ] ARMOUR (3 )
| Current Firepower: Current Armour:
| xe 32.
MISSILE WEAPONS Fuel:
| ar Rackets:
EQUIPMENT LIST: MED-KI]
(Delete as used)
PLASTIC TUBING

és Mordikeations: at
EX. CHA eRe

EAA
HRI GE

fron Spikes:

| [sae
CREDITS: 200 | Oil: Gaui
‘go | Wierls

:

Car Accessortes:

L

Ie

=

ENEMY ENCOUNTER BOXES VEHICLE ENCOUNTER BOXES |
DUEticy Tris Birys CO ese yy YEELOW PORD CHARIOT
Skill =9 Skill=t! Skill = Firepower =% | Firepower = || Firepower = 9
Stamina =) Stamina = ¥ Stamina = Armour =-} Armour = x r Armour =t
sy 22 zov tv Sv? bi #9 Sv22

iBV12 il 12799 19413
yar \8 y 20 Ful?
iov?7 ’
¥ Z ; 6 y, ' %
Skill = Skill = Skill= Firepower ={0} | Firepower = Firepower =
Stamina = Stamina = Stamina = Armour =| & | Armour = Armour =
is
I 9
Skill = Skill = Skill = Firepower = Firepower = Firepower =
Stamina = Stamina = Stamina = Armour = Armour = Armour =
Skill = Skill = Skill = Firepower = Firepower = Firepower =
Stamina = Stamina = Stamina = Armour = Armour = Armour =

VID NEWS BULLETIN
DATELINE 21 JULY 2022

The disaster happened just at a time when the world
was beginning to enjoy itself. Nobody could have
predicted such a catastrophe. World War IIT had
been averted and the power blocs of East and West
were now working towards world peace and unity.
Revolutionary farming techniques had all but eradi-
cated hunger, and increased mobility had led to
people’s greater understanding of one another.

The morning of 21 July 2022 had started just like any
other. It was going to be a hot day and the news on
the holovision was good. A governmentspokesman
proudly announced that solar energy now powered
go per cent of homes and 70 per cent of industry, the

three-day working week was now the norm, and
England was to play the United States in the soccer
finals of the World Cup in Sydney. However, there
were only hours to go before the beginnings of the
collapse of civilization.

Later that day, an unknown disease broke out in
New York, and spread with such devastating speed
and fatality that before the government and scien-
tists realized what was happening, half the popu-
lation was dead. The disease spread throughout
the world, carried by aeroplane passengers, and deci-
mated population centres everywhere, All attempts

-

at quarantine were useless. Four days after the

outbreak, 85 per cent of the world’s population were |

22 :
|

dead, Communications, essential services, trans-
port and administration had broken down com-
pletely. There was no one left to try to find the cause
of the outbreak. It might have been a mutated virus
or some lethal germ unknowingly released from a
chemical warfare laboratory. [t was mere specu-
lation and nobody really cared, as survival was the
top priority.

The speed with which civilization fell into ruins was
frightening. Most survivors didn’t know why they
still lived, and didn't know how fo go on living.
Brute force became the law. Riots, looting, destruc-
tion and drunkenness were commonplace. People
would even kill for a can of beans. Large cities were

soon abandoned due to lack of food and risk of
disease.

Six months after the disaster, there remained two
kinds of people — those who wanted order again,
and those who revelled in the disorder. The former
grouped themselves into small towns and built
defences around them. Inside, they appointed lead-
ers and began the task of self-sufficiency. These
fortress towns became the homes of the military,
farmers, doctors and people concerned with the
rebuilding of civilization. The other group lived a
wild and brutal existence outside. They were the
new barbarians. Roaming the land in cycle or car
gangs, they terrorized or wiped out any small pock-
ets of civilization they came across.

You are one of the lucky survivors living ina fortress

23

I -
town which has been named New Hope. You are
working on the design of an early-warning system
to protect the town, when you hear a knock at your
door. It is two members of the town council and
they look very excited. They tell you that their radio
has just picked up a message from a fortified oil
refinery near San Anglo in the south. The people
there are willing to exchange 10,000 litres of petrol
for grain and seeds to improve their food produc-
tion. The inhabitants of New Hope could certainly
use the petrol for generators and agricultural
machinery. Being offered 10,000 litres of this rare
commodity is too good an opportunity to miss,
especially as there are surplus stocks of grain and
seed. The council have agreed to the deal and are
now looking for somebody to undertake the journey
to San Anglo to deliver the sacks — and drive the
petrol tanker back to New Hope. It willbe along and
dangerous journey through lawless country. The
two men tell you that they think you are the best-
trained person to undertake such a mission, and ask
if you would like to volunteer. They tell you that a
Dodge Interceptor will be prepared for the journey.
It will be fitted with machine-guns, radio, roof-
mounted rocket-launcher, ram bars, loudspeaker
and various defences, including rear oil spray, tyre-
shredding spikes, armour-plating and bullet-proof
windows.

You do not need convincing, as the benefit to New
Hope will be enarmous. This pioneer journey might
be the start of the link between the new societies

trying to bring about civilization - if you succeed.
You tell them that you will do the job and begin your
preparations immediately.

Over the next two days, you supervise the modifica-
tions to the Interceptor. When it is finally ready, it
looks like a battle-car. You check it one last time to
ensure that the weapons work and that all your
equipment has been packed away in the various
compartments. You run through the checklist: map,
flashlight, Med-Kit, compass, foad, water, full fuel
canister, two spare wheels, Flat-U-Fix (instant
puncture repairer) and tools. Finally, you put on the
shoulder-holster for your revolver, and leather jack-
et, which carries your bullets and knife. Satisfied
that you are ready, you climb into the driver's seat.
Peering through the narrow steel slit that is now
your windscreen, you see the town's population
gathered to wave you goodbye. You start up the
engine of the Interceptor and craw! forward to the
gates leading to the outside world. It is over a year
since you last ventured beyond the walls of New
Hope, and you are excited at the prospect of what
you will find.

NOW TURN OVER

f 24
re

1
The first thing to strike you as you cruise along the
road js the speed with which everything has fallen
into decay. You hadn’t realized how much mainte-
nance was needed to support civilization. All
around, buildings are falling into ruin, abandoned
cars litter the roads in rusted disarray, grass and
weeds have grown rampant everywhere, with no-
bady to hold them back, and packs of dogs and
other wild animals roam freely. You stop at a small
town some fifteen kilometres from New Hope and
switch off your engine. Suddenly it is deathly silent
apart from the eerie how] of adog somewhere down
the street. You are tempted to get out of the car to
explore, but realize that this is an unnecessary risk,
You are about to start your engine again when
suddenly the sound of a shotgun breaks the silence,
if you wish to get out of the car to investigate, turn to
126. [f you would rather drive out of the town, turn

t0 34.

2
You run to yourcarand tear opena pack of medicine
from your Med-Kit. You inject yourself with snake-
bite serum and dress the wound. However, the
treatment does not increase your STAMINA; it mere-
ly prevents the poison from killing you. You recover
some time later, but are nevertheless weakened by
the ordeal. Lose 1 SKILL point and 2 STAMINA
points. You walk back to the overturned Interceptor
and shoot the snake with vengeful glee. Inside the
374

glove compartment you find a few metres of coiled
plastic tubing which you decide to take with you.
With your arm still throbbing painfully, you drive
off south again (turn to 13)-

You stamp down on the accelerator and release the
clutch at the same time. The back wheels spin,
throwing up dust, but you race off ahead of the
yellow Ford. In your rearview-mirror you see the
anger on your opponent's face as he drives to the
limit along the narrow road to catch up with you.
The Ford must be supercharged: it accelerates up
behind you and rams your car at high speed. Tes!
your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 354. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 247. ‘

4

You pull off the road and park the Interceptor
behind a low wall. When you turn off the engine,
you notice how deathly quiet it is and wonder if
anybody heard you stop. You eat your food quickly
but wait until it is completely dark before settling
down to sleep. In the morning you wake early,
feeling refreshed. Add 2 sTAMINA points. You start
up the Interceptor and are soon heading south (turn

to 254).

ei

5
The front door of the motel is locked and all the
windows appear to be closed. If you wish to force
the lock, turn to 241. If you would rather change
your mind and spend the night inside the tanker’s
cabin, turn to 218.

6
Both bikers are armed with pistols. You reply by
fring your revolver, and the duel begins.

SKILL STAMINA
First BIKER 6 15
Second BIKER 7 17

During this Shooting Combat, both bikers will fire
separately at you during each Attack Round, but
you must choose which of the two you will fire at.
Against the other, you throw for your Attack
Strength in the normal way, but you will not wound
him if your Attack Strength is greater —- you must
just count this as though his bullet missed you. Of
course, if his Attack Strength is greater, his bullet
will wound you. If you win, turn to 307, but reduce
your SKILL permanently by 1 point if you are shot
more than once during the battle with the bikers.

7
Amber urges you to turn off the road and head east
across the stony desert ground. She lets you drive
om until the Interceptor cannot be seen from the
8-10

road. Then she tells you to stop and wait until it gets
dark. ‘We need to be alert for our raid tonight, so
I’ve brought along something to keep us going,’ she
says happily, reaching into her pocket. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 319. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 136.

8
You make as if to pass the Ford on its left-hand side,
but suddenly swerve to overtake on the right. Itis a
successful manoeuvre and you are able to accelerate
away from your opponent (turn to 340).

9
You have made a fatal mistake by ignoring the
warning. The man behind the barricade is the oper-
ator of a laser gun. As you drive forward, he presses
the trigger and the narrow beam burns a hole
through the steel-plated armour of the Interceptor,
killing you instantly.

10
Whatever caused the tail-back certainly created
havoc among the owners of the vehicles, Cars
appear to have lacked into other cars as frustrated
drivers tried to ram their way out of the blockage,
only to make it worse, You squeeze between the
vehicles looking for something useful. You find a
crowbar on a truck and you use it to force open the

11-i2

boats of several cars. Moving up the line of cars, you
suddenly panic at the thought of the Interceptor
being left unguarded. If you wish to run back to
your car, turn to 26q. If you would prefer to keep on
searching through the cars, turn to 359.

11
Any remaining rockets, canisters of oi] and canisters
of iron spikes must be crossed off your Adventure
Sheet. The sky bandits tell you to drive off while they
are feeling in a generous mood — next time they will
Slow up the Interceptor as well as rob you of your
weapons. You curse them under your breath, but
obey and drive off west. Lose 2 Luck points and
turn to 216,

12
You know your chances are slim, but there is no
alternative — this bandit has got you cold, Ignoring
the pain, you roll out from underneath the ambu-
ence and fire two wild shots at your unseen adver-
sery. They both miss, for you suddenly see a scruffy
man wearing a red headband jump up from behind
2 rock, returning fire at you.

HIGHWAYMAN

Resolve this combat using the Shooting rules, but

reduce your SKILL by 1 point for the duration of the

Szht because of your injury, If you win, turn to 131,
| but reduce your skKILL permanently by 1 point if you
are shot more than once during the battle.

SKILLB STAMINA 12

13-14

13

In your rearview-mirror you see a motor bike and
sidecar steadily closing up on you. The passenger is
holding a machine-gun mounted on the nose of the
sidecar, He reminds you of early pilots, with his
goggles and a leather flying-cap. Both men are
wearing black scarves over their mouths to keep the
wind-blown sand out of their lungs. When they are
no more than fifty metres behind, they signal their
imtention by firing a burst from the machine-gun at
the Interceptor. Lose 1 ARMOUR point, Will you:

Drop a canister of iron spikes

(if you have one)? Turn to 127
Release a spray of ail (if you
still have a full canister)? Turn to 361
Return fire with the Interceptor's
machine-gun? Turn to 282
14

The bed is very comfortable and you do not wake up
until well after sunrise. The good night's rest has left
you feeling relaxed and refreshed, Add 3 sTAMINA
points, You run downstairs and out of the door, but
2re stopped in your tracks by the sight of a man
dressed in white robes, emptying a petrol can all
over the Interceptor. Chanting incoherent words,
he steps back and produces a box of matches, strik-
me one and holding it aloft. If you wish to call out to
the man, turn to 260. If you would rather run over to
him to knock the match out of his hand, turn to 217.

157-16

15
You walk over to the man and call out to him. He
calmly turns off the torch and says, ‘This is no job to
be doing in the desert heat. Still, most people leave
me to get on with it and don’t cause me any trouble.
| don’t take sides, and I'll repair anybody’s vehicle.
if you want me to fix the damage on your car, it will
cost you 200 Credits.’ If you can afford the price and
wish to have your car repaired, turn to 169. If you
wish to decline his offer and set off east again, turn

to 259.

16
You wake up early in the morning feeling relaxed
and refreshed. Add 2 sTAMINA points, If you wish
to search the café, turn to 26. If you would rather
drive off immediately, turn to 254.

17

17

You press your foot down hard on the accelerator to
get away from the bikers before the impending
explosion cripples your car. The Interceptor fishtails
as the wheels spin, trying to grip the dirt. You make
it past the road-block and are another hundred
metres down the road before the mine goes off. It
makes no more than a dull thud, but the car starts to
sway all over the road, almost out of control —one of
the rear wheels is virtually blown off the axle. Lose 2
ARMOUR points. You grind to a halt and jump out,
revolver drawn. You see that there is no repairing
this wheel and you will have to use the spare. Back
down the road the bikers are starting up the
armoured cycle, getting ready to attack. You climb
back inside to meet them with the Interceptor’s
machine-guns,

MOTOR CYCLE

During this Vehicle Combat, reduce your FIREPOW-
ER by 2 because of your car's immobility. If you win,
turn to 103.

FIREPOWER 6 ARMOURQ

—-  -.

4 18-20

18
You shout encouragement to the cifizens, but their
spirit is broken. They surrender almost without
resistance, and you realize that your mission will
now never be completed. The Doom Dogs have

their revenge.

19
It does not take long to change the wheel and you
are soon driving east again. Turn to 119.

20

nly the Ford swings out to the left to try to
cagaake but you ae anticipated the driver's
move and block him successfully, Add 1 LUCK
point, You maintain your lead and, as you cross the
finishing-line, the Interceptor is ahead of the Ford
by half a car's length, You have won the Blitz Race

(turn to 111).

21

You do what you can to repair the car. It takes you
about half an hour to clean the spark-plugs, check
the oil, tune the carburettor and make sure that
nothing vital is damaged. You find that three wheel-
nuts are loose on one of the back tyres, and screw
them up tight again, Add 2 ARMOUR points. Sa-
astied that everything is as well as can be expected,
you set off south again (turn to 221).

22

You flash past a road-sign which shows a turning to
the south immediately ahead. If you wish to drive
south, turn to 311. If you would rather keep cruising
east, turn to 203.

23
You approach a railway bridge that you must pass
under, but do not see the laughing man on top of it.
A stone pillar teeters on the edge of the parapet,
held from falling by the man. As he sees you drive
towards the bridge, he giggles like a child and
releases the pillar. It crashes down on to the raad

directly in front of the Interceptor. Roll two dice. If

the total is the same as or Jess than your SKILL, turn
to 137. If the total is greater than your SKILL, turn to
24-25

You drive along the bumpy road until you come toa
wooden gate which bars the way, The gate is co-
wered with barbed wire and a heavily tattooed,
Dare-chested man sits casually astride it, bran-
cishing a machine-gun. In a gruff voice he says, ‘I
con't recognize you. Which gang are you from?’
Slack Rats,’ you reply on the spur of the moment.
Never heard of them,’ the man replies, ‘Still, we'll
race against anybody. Follow the road down to the
Surnt-out house and you'll see the other cars parked
there. The first race will start in about five minutes.
There are some pretty heavy bets being laid today,
Should be lots of fun.’ If you wish to drive through
the gate, turn to 300. If you would rather reverse
quickly and drive back to the main road to head
south, turn to 59.

25
The force of the blast knocks you unconscious. Turn
®t 100.

26-27

26

You push open the back door of the café and see that
the place was looted some time ago. Broken crock-
ery is scattered all over the floor, furniture is strewn
everywhere and all the food cupboards are empty.
A staircase leads up to the living-rooms, which have
also been ransacked, After finding nothing of in-
terest you walk outside but are stopped in your
tracks when you see a man dressed in white robes
emptying a petrol can all over the Interceptor.
Chanting incoherent words, he steps back and pro-
duces a box of matches, strikes a match and holds it
aloft. If you wish to call out to him, turn to 260. If
you would rather run over to him to knock the
match out of his hand, turn to 217.

27
You slam on the brakes and screech almost to a halt.
The Ford swerves around you and is soon accelerat-
ing away from you. As you are not allowed to use
your forward-firing weapons, you decide to ram the
Ford (turn to 139).

28-29

You drive on to Pete’s forecourt and park the Inter-
ceptor inside the workshop. Pete quickly examines
the engine and says that the acceleration of the
Interceptor could be improved by the addition of a
supercharger. He tells you that the cost will be 100
Credits plus some medicine. If you are able to and
wish to give Pete 100 Credits and two packs from
your Med-Kit, turn to 141. If you want to, or have to,
decline his offer and carry on south, turn to 88.

29

One of the stray bullets hits you in the shoulder.
Roll 1 die and deduct the number from your sTamt-
Na score. You wonder how long your Med-Kit is
going to last if the mission is going to continue being
so dangerous. When you are finally fixed up, you
limp back to your Interceptor and burn up the road,
heading east (turn to 22).

30~31

30
The crossbow bolt hits you in the shoulder, and you
slide back down the ladder. Roll 1 die and deduct
the total from your staMINa. If you are still alive,
you ignore the pain and run back up the ladder
before the hijacker has time to reload his crossbow,
Your wounds stop you from using your revolver, so
you move forward to wrestle with the man. Roll 1
die and add the number to your current SkiLL score,
but reduce the total by 1 because of your injury. Roll
the die again and add the number to the hijacker’s
SKILL of 7. If your total is the same as or greater than
that of the hijacker, turn to 74. If your total is lower

The farmhouse is an easy target to compute and you
are able to press the fire button in seconds. The
rocket does not miss. The explosion destroys the
farmhouse, sending fragments of brick and wood
flying through the air. You grab the can of Flat-U-Fix
and repair the puncture. When the dust has settled,
you drive cautiously ahead, one finger against the
machine-gun trigger. You stop alongside the burn-
ing farmhouse, but see no signs of life. You turn off
the engine and wind down the window of the
Interceptor. You hear the desperate cry of a man
calling for help. If you wish to get out of the car to
investigate, turn to 262. If you would rather drive
south out of town, turn to 353.

32-33

32
You pack all your equipment into two backpacks
and set off towards the Doom Dogs’ camp. There is
a full moon and it is not too difficult to make your
way across the desert. Guided by your compass,
you head steadily east. After an hour, you see the
glow of a fire in the distance on high ground. Amber
explains in a whisper that the Doom Dogs live in
tents on top of a low, flat hill where their cars are
parked. When you reach the hill, you find that the
slope is very gentle and you are soon at the top, You
be down and survey the movements inside the
camp. A group of people are sitting around the
camp-fire, drinking and laughing. Two men are
walking slowly around the edge of the camp on
guard duty, eacH armed with a rifle. You decide to
craw! round the side of the hill to the barbed-wire
fence, to put your plan into action. You hear one of
the guards above you close by, and press yourself
against the side of the hill to avoid being seen.
Amber inadvertently kicks a stone which rolls down
the hill a few metres. The sound it makes is very
toud in the quiet of the desert night. Test your Luck. lf
you are Lucky, turn to 76. If you are Unlucky, turn
to 160.

33
it takes a long time to dig your car out of the ditch,

and it is also very tiring work. Lose 1 STAMINA
point. When you are at last free, you drive off south,
passing the burning wreck of the armoured car (turn
© 47).

34-37

34
You are soon out of town, zigzagging around

wrecked cars and fallen trees along the road. Furth-
er ahead you can see that the road joins the main
highway south, There is a small filling-station at the
junction, named Joe's Garage. You stop, as you are
mtrigued by the hot-rod parked around the side,
looking clean and in running condition. A young
girl suddenly comes out of the office, wearing a
T-shirt and blue jeans, She smiles and says, ‘Hi, can
Thelp you?’ If you wish to talk to her, turn to 302. If
you would rather drive up on to the highway, turn
to 167.

35
it is a battle of nerves between yourself and the

driver of the Ford. The two cars race abreast towards
the bridge. Roll one die and add the number to your
SKILL, Making a note of the total. Roll the die again
and add the number to the Ford driver’s sxrit of 8.
i vour total is the same as or greater than that of
your opponent, turn to 379. If your total is less than
that of the Ford driver, turn to 51.

36
the dagger thuds painfully into your side. Rol] one
Se and deduct the number from your sTaMINA. If
you are still alive, turn to 368.

37
A huge boulder crashes down on top of the Inter-

ceptor’s roof, Roll two dice and deduct the total

AY

38-39

from your ARMOUR, If you survive the tmpact, turn
to 261.

38

You open one of the packs inside the Med-Kit and
soon your wound is treated — pellets removed anda
layer of synthi-skin applied, with bandages to caver
it. You stand up and are about to hop back to your
Interceptor, when a huge wild dog appears at the
end of the street. Its furis tattered from many fights
and saliva drips from its open mouth. The chances
are that it is rabid. It stoops down and then starts to
run towards you, growling as it gathers speed. if
you wish to try to shootit, turn to 176. [f you wish to
fight it with your knife, turn to 374-

39
Despite your injury, your reflexes are still fast. In

one quick manoeuvre, you pull the knife from its
sheath and throw it at the sneering man, A sur-
prised expression spreads across his face as he
drops to his knees, clutching the knife handle which
protrudes from his stomach, He falls forwards,
shooting wildly as he dies. Tes! your Luck, If you are
Lucky, turn to 171. If you are Unlucky, turn to 29.

40-42

40

By the time you reach the tanker, the Doom Dog has
already started up the engine. You jump up and
grab hold of the door-handle as the man reaches for
his gun, The man has a sKtiz of 6 and if your own
SKILL is the same or greater, turn to 81. If your SKILL
ts less than 6, turn to 296,

41

The driver of the armoured car is alert and swerves
the car off the road to avoid the spikes. It powers its
way through the overgrown grass verge and
bounces back on to the road to continue the chase. If
you wish to release an oil spray, turn to 165. If you
would rather risk a handbrake-turn to face the
armoured car, turn to 77-

As darkness envelops the countryside, you switch
on your headlights. You drive steadily on, avoiding
obstacles and occasionally picking up the gleaming
red eyes of some wild animal frozen in the light. The
might draws on and you begin to feel very tired. Rall
two dice. If the total is the same as or Jess than your
SKILL, turn to 162. If the total is greater than your
SKILL, turn to 186.

43-46

You breathe in deeply as the Interceptor passes over
the grenade. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to
175. If you are Unlucky, turn to 201,

44
‘Liar! I didn't think you looked like a member of a
gang. Let's hear what the others have to say.” He
waves his machine-gun in the direction of the trees
where his friends are sitting. If you possess a pair of
knuckle-dusters, turn to 273. If you do not have
them, turn to 214.

45
Speeding along the open road, you do not notice the

iron spikes that have been laid down by highway
bandits. You drive straight over them, and only
realize that you have done so when a puncture
makes the steering-wheel start to judder. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 304. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 60,

46
The kilometres roll by and the petrol gauge drops
relentlessly down until it registers empty again. If
you are carrying a full can of petrol inside the
Interceptor, turn to 310. If you have not acquired
one recently, turn to 364.

47-48

47
As the morning wears on, it becomes very hot and

you notice a change in the vegetation the further
south you travel. The overgrown fields turn into
scrubland, and it won't be long before you are
driving across the desert. A few miles further down
the road, you arrive at a major junction. If you wish
to turn right to head west, turn to 117. If you would
rather keep driving south, turn to 23.

Gripping your knife tightly, you crouch down, wait-
ing tor the thug to make his move, Suddenly he
screams and leaps at you.

THUG
Use the Hand Fighting rules to resolve this combat,
Seth your knife and the thug’s crowbar reduce

STAMINA by 2 points, [f you win, turn to 138. If you
tall unconscious, turn to 100.

SKILL 7 STAMINA 10

49-51

Parked in the middle of the road ahead of you is a
bizarre-looking vehicle. Jt looks like a pick-up truck
which has been converted to resemble a Roman
chariot. Iteven has scythes attached toits wheels. A
huge, bare-chested man wearing a gladiatorial hel-
met, which covers his face, is standing at the back of
the truck holding on toa double-barrelled machine-
gun. He signals to his driver to drive forward into
battle. You have no choice but to fight this new-age
gladiator.

CHARIOT FIREPOWERG ARMOUR15

if you win this Vehicle Combat, turn to 91.

50

You dive at the robed man and pull him to the
ground, but are unable to stop him throwing the
match. The Interceptor is immediately engulfed in
flames. Your anger is futile; the fanatic has put an
end to your mission.

You are only a few metres away from the bridge
when your nerves crack. You brake hard and watch
the Ford race over the bridge ahead of you. Pressing
down on the accelerator, you try to catch up. You
see the finishing-line ahead, no more than two
bundred metres away, and realize that the race is
lest. The Ford crosses the finishing-line a car's
length ahead of the Interceptor. Lose 1 Luck point
and tum to 232.

ero

52-54

52

Your rapid-firing machine-gun does not miss its
target and the bike skids off the road, crashing into a
tree. But the rider does not die in vain—his crossbow
bolt pierces your front tyre and sends the tanker into
a frightening skid. Wrestling with the steering-
wheel, you just manage to keep control and slide to
a halt. Trapped inside your cabin, you wait to see
what the other biker sill do next, He parks behind
the tanker and shouts at you to leave the cabin. You
reply ina few words, but leave him in no doubt as to
what you think of his suggestion. ‘How about a duel
then? Winner takes all,’ shouts the man. If you wish
ta agree to his proposal, turn to 164, If you would
rather sit if out, turn to 190.

You press down on the accelerator, steering the
Interceptor towards your attackers. But before you
can reach them, they jump on to motor bikes and
race off, If you wish to chase after them, turn to 78. If
you would rather reverse, drive back to the road and
turn right to head east, turn to 45.

54
You do not stop to celebrate your victory in case

Leonardi isa bad loser. He does not try to follow you
and gradually fades from view behind you. You
pass an articulated truck which looks as if it has only
recently been parked. If you wish to stop and ex-
amine the truck, turn to 104. If you would rather
drive on without stopping, turn to 118.

55757

55
You push open the back door of the café and realize
that the place was looted some time ago, Broken
crockery is scattered all over the floor, furniture is
strewn everywhere and all the food cupboards are
empty. A staircase leads up to the living-rooms,
which have also been ransacked, Finding nothing of
interest, you sit down to eat some of your own
rations as the light rapidly fades. When it is com-
pletely dark, you lie down to sleep on the bed, with
vour revolver under the pillow. Roll one die, If you
rall 1, 2 or 3, turn to 210. If you roll 4, 5 or 6, turn to

14.

56

You slip the knuckle-dusters over your fingers and
spring up as quietly as possible. The expression of
surprise on the guard’s face is barely visible in the
halt-light, as he takes the full force of your blow. The
force of it knocks him out instantly, You catch him
as he falls, hoping that his friends do not notice
what is happening. You tie him up with his own belt
and leave him on the hillside, It won't be long before
he is missed, so you scramble quickly up the hill to
the fence (turn to 198).

57
With incredible speed, you draw your revolver and

have it pointed at the face of the man before he can
even move. You tell him to drop his shotgun. You
explain that you are not the person who killed his
wife and son, and had only lied about being a road
57

warrior to keep the whereabouts of New Hope a
secret in case the man might lead a raid on it. The
man looks suddenly excited and says, ‘New Hope,
you say? That’s where I'm headed. Been cycling in
that direction ever since the ambush, Only stopped
here to get some cans of food from a supermarket
back there, when some crazy dogs attacked me.
Shot one of them and the others ran off. My name's
Johnson, and I'm sorry about threatening you like I
did, but you can't trust anybody these days.’ You
smile and shake hands, and he tells you that he isa
builder by trade. He asks how much further it is to
New Hope and whether he is likely to be let in. You
reply that it is only another fifteen kilometres and
his chances are good ~ they need skilled people, You
also tell him about your mission and he warns you
not to stop at Joe’s Garage, which is about eight
kilometres out of town. ‘They ain't got no petrol.
They just rob people who stop there." You thank
Johnson for the advice, wish him luck and walk back
to the Interceptor. Its powerful engine roars into life
when you turn the ignition key, and you screech off
once again (turn to 34).

58-59

58

You climb the steps into the caravan and, after a
rapid search through the cupboards, you discover a
can of corned beef and a grenade. You put the
grenade in your pocket and decide to eat the corned
beef there and then, as you are feeling very hungry.
Add 2 stamina points. Realizing that you are not
likely to see your attacker again, you return to the
Interceptor to head south (turn to 150),

59
As you drive away, you hear the man on the gate

yell, ‘Chicken!’ In your rearview-mirror you watch
him reach into a leather bag hanging on the gate and
extract a hand-grenade. He pulls out the detonator
pin and hurls the grenade at the Interceptor. Test
your Lick, Tf you are Lucky, turn to 73. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 121.

60-63

60

Both of the rear tyres are punctured and you swerve
toa halt. A man suddenly appears from the ditch by
the side of the road, holding a bottle with a flame-lit
rag at the mouth. You realize with horror that it is a
petrol bomb, but there is nothing you can do to stop
him throwing it at your immobilized car. Roll two
dice and deduct the total from the Interceptor’s
ARMOUR. If you survive the explosion, turn to 135.

61
The road heads directly east and you are able to
travel along it without incident until you reach
another T-junction. Here you decide to turn right in
order to drive south towards San Anglo (turn to

272).

62
You manage to control the speeding Interceptor and
swerve round the overturned truck. Turn to 151.

63
The canister bursts open and spreads iron spikes all
over the road, But the Ford is equipped with a
powerful underbody air-jet which blows all but one
of the iron spikes off the road. The only damage
done is a slow puncture to one of its heavy-duty
tyres, which slows it down just enough for you to
accelerate out of range of its grenade-launcher for
the moment, Up ahead you see the white house
where you must turn around. You jam on the brakes
and turn the steering-wheel sharply to the left, You
reverse back a few metres in a cloud of churned-up

Feet oor!

ee
on of

64-66

dust, and then slam the gear stick forward into first
to race back to the finishing-line. The Ford makes an
equally swift U-turn and is soon just behind you. It
powers alongside you, and the driver pulls down on
his steering-wheel in order to sideswipe the Inter-
ceptor, He looks set to determine the outcome of
this duel by ramming.

YELLOW FORD

A successful ram will reduce a car’s ARMOUR by 2
points. If you survive four Attack Rounds, turn to

334-

FIREPOWERS ARMOUR16

You rummage through the bandit’s clothing, but
find nothing of use. You look at the Interceptor’s
tyres to see if they can be repaired. Test your Luck, If
you are Lucky, turn to 242. If you are Unlucky, turn
to 313.

65
You feel a stab of pain in your arm as one of the
bullets clips you. Fortunately it is only a flesh
wound, Lose 2 sTaMINA points. The Interceptor
starts first time and you screech away down the
rough road to the main road, where you tum nghtat
speed to head south (turn to 207).

66
The road heads directly west and you are able to
travel along it quickly, as it is relatively free of
obstacles. However, your easy drive is shortlived.
The road comes toa river, which it used to cross, but

67-69

the drawbridge, which spans the river, is partly
open, stopping you from driving across it, You
judge thatif you drive over it at about 180 kilometres
per hour, the momentum should carry the Intercep-
tor across the gap to the far side — but then again, it
might not. If you wish to try to drive across the
bridge, turn to 270. If you would rather turn around
and drive east, turn to 159.

67
Like two jousting knights on horseback, the two
vehicles sweep by each other with machine-guns
blazing. After each pass, you turn sharply and
charge at each other again. But suddenly the sta-
tion-wagon swerves to ram the Interceptor. You
turn the steering-wheel to take the Interceptor out
of the path of the station-wagon. Roll two dice. If the
total is the same as or less than your sKILL, turn to
200. If the total is greater than your SKILL, turn to

248.

68
Thanks to your supreme efforts, you manage to
avoid all the obstacles on the road. As the first rays
of the morning sun begin to creep over the horizon,
your weariness departs and you drive on with re-
newed vigour towards San Anglo (turn to 254).

69
The Doom Dogs are defeated and you are able to
rest for the moment. By the ime you manage to free
the Interceptor from the station-wagon, the sun is
nsing above the eastern horizon, bathing you in

poy =

70-73

warm, red light. You suddenly feel optimistic about
completing your mission, and drive off south with-
out any further delay (turn to go).

70

The wheels slam down on the far side of the bridge
and you have to struggle with the steering-wheel to
keep the Interceptor going in a straight line. You are
across the bridge but travelling at high speed to-
wards an overturned truck. Roll two dice. lf the total
is the same as or less than your SKILL score, turn to
62. If the total is greater than your SKILL score, turn
to 133.

71

You press down hard on the accelerator, as the
rocks and boulders crash down on to the road. Test
your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 172. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 37,

72

Opening the door trips a wire which is pulled taut
around the trigger of a crossbow in the far wall. The
bolt is unleashed from the bow and thuds into your
shoulder. Roll one die and deduct the number from
your STAMINA. If you are still alive, turn to 233.

You press down on the accelerator and just manage
to escape the blast of the exploding grenade. If you
still wish to drive back to the main road to head

74-76

south, turn to 207. If you would rather take up the
challenge of the Blitz Race after all, turn to 330,

74

Your attacker is well trained in the art of wrestling,
but you manage to flip him on to his back. You push
him off the top of the trailer and watch him land
heavily on the road below. He is knocked uncon-
scious; you seize the opportunity to drive away. All
day you drive as fast as the tanker will go. Apart
from a disorganized ambush attempt in the late
afternoon, which you easily smash through with
the armoured tanker, there are no incidents on the
road. It is nearly dusk when you reach the outskirts
of New Hope, its high, defended walls a strange but
welcoming sight. lf you were bitten by a rat on your
homeward journey, turn to 275. If you escaped
being bitten, turn to 380.

75

As soon as you release the clutch you hear a loud
bang —a tyre has blown. You curse and get out of the
car. The girl had placed a small mine under your
tront wheel while you were fighting. The wheel is a
wreck and you will have to put on a spare. Lose 1
LUCK point. You resolve not to be so keen to speak to
strangers in future, and drive up on to the highway
(turn to 167).

76

The guard does not pay any attention to the noise of
the rolling stone, being distracted by the jokes that
77-79

his friends are telling around the fire. He walks on
by and you are able to craw! up to the fence (turn to

198).

77

You turn the steering-wheel sharply to the left, at
the same time pulling hard on the handbrake. The
tail end of the car swerves right around, and you
stamp down on the accelerator to halt the skid. Roll
two dice. If the total is the same as or less than your
LUCK, turn to 290. If the total is greater than your
LUCK, turn to 352.

The bikes are suited to driving along the dirt track
and you are unable to catch up with them. In the
distance you see a cluster of houses which must be
Rockville. The bikes drive straight towards the
houses and disappear from view. As you get closer
you hear the sound of gunfire, which seems to be
coming from the nearest farmhouse. Will you:

Fire a rocket at the farmhouse? Turn to 199
Keep on driving towards the

houses? Turn to 377
Reverse, drive back to the road

and turn right to head east? Turn to 45

Your engine is still running and sounds undam-
aged, If you wish to stop and deal with your attack-
er, turn to 281. [f you would rather keep driving
south, turn to 150.

80-81

80
Suddenly the Ford swings out to the right to over-
take; you have anticipated incorrectly and turn to
the left. The Ford accelerates past and, when you
cross the finishing-line, the Ford is ahead of the
Interceptor by half a car’s length. Lose 1 Luck point
and turn to 232,

81
Your reactions are faster than those of the desert
raider. You fling the door open and pull him out of
the driver's seat on to the ground. He is easily
overcome, and then you order him to tell his friends
to call off the attack. He reluctantly agrees to your
demand and the shooting stops almost immediate-
ly. You keep your gun trained on your hostage
while you watch the rest of the Doom Dogs retreat
back into the desert. You let the captured Doom Dog
follow his friends to the jeers and cheers of the
inhabitants of the San Anglo refinery. After helping
with the repairs to the entrance, you tell them that it
is time for you to leave. You climb into the cabin of
the tanker and wave farewell. You feel sad to be
abandoning your faithful Interceptor, but realize
the importance of this mission. Two cars escort you
north along the road, until you reach the edge of the
desert. They turn and drive back to San Anglo,
leaving you alone on the highway once more. You
decide to head directly north, ignoring all turnings
that you come to. The day passes without incident
and you keep on driving well into the night. When
you are too tired to drive any further, you pull into a

82-84

motel car-park, as there are no lights showing in the
rooms. If you wish to sleep inside the cabin of the
tanker, turn to 218. If you wish to go inside the
motel, turn to 335.

82
Roll two dice. If the total is the same as or less than
your LUCK score, turn to 39. If the total is higher than
your LUCK score, turn to 244.

83
You dive inside the Interceptor and fire at the sky
bandits overhead, who return fire immediately.

HELICOPTER

During this Vehicle Combat, reduce your FIRE-
POWER by 2 because of your car’s immobility. If you
win, turn to 305.

FIREPOWER § ARMOUR 11

Unknown to you, the dark and warm environment
of the outhouse is the perfect habitat for redback
spiders. Your disturbed dreams make you toss and
turn, and your arm brushes against one of these
spiders. It instinctively bites you, emptying virulent
poison into your veins. Roll one die and deduct the
number from your STAMINA. If you are still alive,
turn to 258,

-—— > ¢

85-86

85

You quickly snip through the wire and craw! into
the compound. Amber moves from vehicle to vehi-
cle, attaching small limpet mines to their engine
blocks. When she has finished activating them, she
signals for you to leave. You crawl down the side of
the hill and stand up to run when you feel you are
out of sight. The explosions suddenly start, and you
count seven in all. ‘One of the mines must have had
a faulty fuse,” Amber says in a breathless voice as
you run back towards the Interceptor. You hear an
engine start and look behind you to see two beams
of light moving away from the rising flames of the
burning wrecks. The Doom Dogs intend to hunt
down their attackers. If your current STAMINA is 10
or greater, turn to 107. If your current STAMINA Is
less than 10, turn to 326.

86

Your revolver is only halfway out of its holster when
the stranger squeezes the trigger of his shotgun.
You see a puff of smoke at the same time as your
right thigh is gripped with pain. You are knocked
back against the wall, the sound of the blast ringing
in your ears as you slide down to the ground. Roll
one die, add 2 to the number rolled and deduct the
total from your STAMINA. The man turns and walks
away, leaving you for the dogs. If you wish to fix
your wound immediately, using your Med-Kit, tum
to 38. Lf you wish to crawl to the safety of your car,
turn to 256.

87-89

87

The man reacts quickly and dodges your swinging
fst. Suddenly you are staring down the barrel of his
machine-gun: you decide against trying to punch
him again! He tells you to turn round and then
brings the butt of his gun down hard on the back of
your head. You crumple to the ground, uncon-
scious (turn to 100}.

+BBE SA

itis not long before the green vegetation gives way
to more barren terrain, with tufts of dry grass dotted
on top of the stony, brown earth. You soon arrive at
the edge of the desert, where the road is joined by
another main road leading east. If you wish to turn
left, turn to 177. If you would rather keep going
south, turn to 271.

89
You decide that this town is too dangerous to stay in
any longer, and hobble back to your Interceptor.
Back behind the wheel, your spirit returns as you
release the clutch and screech out of town (turn to
34).

I

go

go
Amber becomes increasingly excited as you cross
the desert and see the welcome sight of the San
Anglo refinery burning in the distance. When you
get close, she opens the door and waves to the
guards on the wall. The steel entrance doors are
opened and you are allowed to drive inside. You are
greeted enthusiastically by the citizens and spend
the rest of the day telling them about your adven-
tures in the barbaric outlands, You are treated as a
hero, your wounds are tended and you are given
the most comfortable cabin they have to offer. That
night you sleep well. Add 1 skILt point and 4
STAMINA points. In the morning you wake to the
sound of gunfire. You run outside and are told that
the remnants of the Doom Dogs gang are making a
final assault on the refinery. You climb the steps of
the wall to see what is happening outside. A small
truck is being driven straight towards the steel
doors, and you see the driver jump clear just before
impact. There is a loud explosion and one of the
doors is blown off its hinges. On motor bikes and in
cars, the Doom Dogs drive straight for the breach,
As the gang bursts through the wall, the citizens
start to panic, and you realize you will have to take
command. Roll two dice. If the totalis the same as or
less than your SKILL, turn to 147. If the total is
greater than your SKILL, turn to 18.

91-93

gI

You press on south as quickly as possible and switch
on the radio, hoping to establish contact with San
Anglo. However, no voices are audible above the
crackling static. You decide to leave it on anyway, in
case somebody tries to make contact with you. After
driving a further fifteen kilometres, you come fo
another junction in the road, Somebody has left a
sign there which reads ‘Engine and body repairs’ in
crude writing, and shows an arrow pointing cast. lf
you wish to turn left to head east, turn to 250, [f you
would rather keep going south, turn to 301.

92

You drive a long way east, passing only one junc:
tion on your left —a dirt track leading north. At last
you come to a T-junction where you turn right in
order to drive south towards San Anglo (turn to

272).

You try to restart your stalled engine and get away
before the outlaws arrive to see what they shave
captured. Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to
268. If you are Unlucky, turn to 178.

. . 94
You just manage to swerve round the E-type; then

you press your foot down hard on the accelerator, In
your mirror you see that three cars are chasing you.
if you have a canister of iron spikes left, or one of oil,
turn to 328. If you do not have any spikes or oil left

turn to 284.

: neeiee
Sefore you have time to catch them, they turn

around and drive straight towards you. The
machine-gun above the headlamp blazes red and
white as it spits out bullets at you. You press the
accelerator down hard on the floor and race the
Interceptor towards them, your finger clutching the
machine-gun trigger.

MOTOR CYCLE

if you win, turn ta 249.

FIREPOWER 6 ARMOUR G

96
The kilometres roll by and the petrol gauge is read-
ing almost empty again. If you are carrying a full can
of petrol inside the Interceptor, turn to 180. If you
have not acquired one recently, turn to 364.

97-100

7 .
You stand up and walk over to where the two bikers
are lying crumpled in the ditch. One of them is
carrying a throwing-knife which you slide down the

leg of your leather boot. You rest for a while until
you feel fit enough to continue your journey (turn to

215).

98

Much to your frustration, the canister does not open
and the Ford drives over it without incident. The
driver retaliates by firing a grenade over your car
which lands on the road in front of you. There is a
muffled explosion as the steel-plated underchassis
takes the full blast of the grenade. Roll two dice and
deduct the total from your car's ARMOUR, If you
survive the explosion, turn to 294.

You stop the car and empty the fuel canister into the
petrol tank. You see that the Interceptor is looking
somewhat the worse for wear, and wonder if it will
last the trip, If you wish to carry out some instant
repairs, turn to 21. [If you would rather drive off
immediately, turn to 221,

100

You wake some time later, your head aching worse
than anything you have ever known. Then you
remember — the Interceptor! You sit up and look
around, but it’s gone. You have failed in your
mission,

101-102

101

Miraculously, you drive through the minefield
without triggering off any of the mines. Add 1 Luck
point. Quite unaware of your lucky escape, you
continue your journey south (turn to 303).

102

You signal to Amber to open her door and begin
firing at the Doom Dogs. Your own door is sprayed
with bullets as you open it just when your four
opponents begin their barrage of fire. Behind the
cover of the vehicles, everybody is well protected.

You aim your fire at two of the Doom Dogs, while
Amber shoots at the other two.

103

SKILL STAMINA
First DOOM DOG 7 13

‘

Second DOOM DOG 8 I4

During this Shooting Combat, both Doom Dogs will
lire separately at you during each Attack Round, but
you must choose which of the two you will fire at.
Against the other, you throw for your Attack
Strength in the normal way, but will not wound him
if your Attack Strength is greater — you must just
count this as though you dodged his bullet. Of
course, if his Attack Strength is greater, his bullet
will wound you, If you win, turn to 154, but reduce
your SKILL by 1 point if you are shot more than once

during the shoot-out,

103
You walk over to the wrecked bike, carrying your
revolver in one hand and the Med-Kit in the other.
One of the men is dead and the other is barely alive,
You kick his pistol away from him and see if he can
be saved. He opens his eyes, smiles and says, ‘Fat
Jack and the boys will get you for this,’ Then he

104-106

slumps back and is still, Your Med-Kit cannot help
him. You check the bike over and notice a locked
side-pannier. If you wish to open the pannier, turn
to 206. If you would rather change the wheel on the
Interceptor without wasting any more time, turn to

346.

104

There is nothing of use inside the cabin, and its
wagon is empty. You automatically tap the petrol
tank to see if there is any fuel left in it, and are
surprised to discover that there is. The tank is made
of reinforced steel and you wonder how you can
extract the petrol. If you have a length of plastic
tubing, turn to 306. If you do not have any plastic
tubing, turn to 187.

105
A bullet punctures your front tyre and the car grinds
to a halt, directly in the path of the exploding shell.
Roll two dice and deduct the total from your car's
ARMOUR. If you survive the explosion, turn to 292.

~

106
You circle the burning wreck and then turn south
and accelerate away (turn to 47).

107~109

107

You run like the wind, glancing several times over
your shoulder to watch the vehicle circling the hill,
trying to pick up your tracks. You are less than two
hundred metres from the Interceptor when your
tracks are spotted and the vehicle turns to give
chase, An angry voice booms out over the desert
through a loudspeaker, shouting, ‘Stop! There is no
escape from the Animal.’ The message is repeated
over and over again as the vehicle closes up on you,
The welcome sight of the Interceptor appears before
you, and you both jump inside just as your pursuers
come into view (turn to 158).

108
Much to your relief, the shot is accurate and the dog
is killed instantly. Turn to 89,

109

Whoever was driving the car must have taken
everything with them when they set off on foot after
running out of petrol. You walk round to the back of
the car and try to open the boot, but find that it is
locked. If you have a crowbar and wish to prise the
Soot open, turn to 277, If you would rather give up
on the police car and continue your journey south,
turn to 49.
=~

110-111

110

You wake up early in the morning feeling relaxed
and refreshed. Add 2 STAMINA points. You run
downstairs and climb inside the Interceptor to drive
off south without any further delay (turn to 254).

111

The small crowd of spectators gathers around the
Interceptor to congratulate you. The Ford driver
climbs out of his car, slams the door shut and
stomps away. ‘Looks like he’s a bad loser,’ says one
of the others, ‘and it’s the first time I've ever seen
him lose!’ The girl who started the race hands you
your prize of the can of petrol which you pack inside
the Interceptor. ‘It'll be about half an hour before the
next race starts, so we're going to sit down over by
the trees. Will you join us?’ she says. You decline
her offer, as you are keen to carry on with your
mission. They walk away, leaving you to check over
the Interceptor for any serious damage, While you
are bending over the engine, you feel a tap on the
shoulder. You look up and see the tattooed man
who was sitting on the wooden gate. ‘Which gang
did you say you belong to?’ he asks ina hostile tone,
Will you reply:

112-114

Black Cats? Turn to 44
Black Rats? Turn to 156
Black Bats? Turn to 228

112
Inside the general store you find a can of meat,
which you greedily devour, not having eaten such a
rare delicacy fora long time, Add 2sTAMINA points.
More important, you find a full canister of petrol,
which you stow inside the Interceptor. If you have
not done so already, you may search the nearest
house (turn to 252). If you would rather drive off
south, turn to 353.

113

You fire rapidly at the advancing vehicle, and man-
age to shoot out both of its headlights. In the safety
of darkness, you tell Amber to make a run for the
Interceptor. You hear the occupants of the vehicle
cursing each other as they scramble to find spare
headlight bulbs. By the time they do, you are within
sight of the Interceptor, and the two of you jump

inside just as your pursuers come into view (turn to
158).

114

You continue to make good headway along the
country roads, The untended fields on both sides of
the road have grown wild, and you wonder if they
will ever be ploughed again. Still wrapped up in
your thoughts, you pass by a turning on your left,
but ignore it as you do not want to go north. Turn ta
g2.
115-116

115
You drive for an hour, neither seeing nor hearing
signs of life, until] you notice two trails of dust rising
into the air, one on each side of the road. They draw
closer until you can see what is making the trails -
nwo dune buggies. Both are armed with machine-
guns and open fire on you as soon as they are in
range.

FIREPOWER ARMOUR
First DUNE BUGGY 7 10
Second DUNE BUGGY 8 11

During this Vehicle Combat, both buggies will fire
separately at you in each Attack Round, but you
must choose which of the two you will fire at.
Against the other you will throw for your Attack
Strength in the normal way, but you will not dam-
age it if your Attack Strength is greater — you must
just count this as though its bullets missed. Of
course, if its Attack Strength is greater, the bullet
will cause damage to the Interceptor. [f you win,
turn to 194.

116
The bullet hits you in the shoulder. Roll 1 die and
deduct the number from your STAMINA score. In
Pain, you sit up and return fire.

HIGHWAYMAN © SKILL8 STAMINA 12

Resolve this combat using the Shooting rules, but
reduce your SKILL by 2 points for the duration of the
ight because of your injuries. If you win, turn to
a

—

117-120

131, but reduce your SKILL permanently by 1 pointif
you are shot more than once.

117
You travel about eighty kilometres, and then the
road ends ata T-junction, You decide to turn left in
the direction of San Anglo (turn to 189).

118
The miles slip by and your petrol gauge once again
reads almost empty. If you have filled your petrol
canister recently, turn ta 99- If you do not have any
fuel left, turn to 364.

119
After travelling east for another half hour, you come
to a crossroads which has a main road heading
south. You turn right and press your foot down on
the accelerator, hoping to make good progress
down the open road (turn ft 272).

120
Your shot misses, as the wolves close in to attack.
You draw your knife just in time to defend yourself,

SKILL STAMINA
First WOLF 8 -
Second WOLF 8 8

Use the Hand Fighting rules to fight the wolves one
at a time. Your knife and a wolf's bite both reduce
STAMINA by 2 points. [f you win, turn to 286.

121-122

121
The grenade rolls under the Interceptor and ex-
plodes. Roll two dice and deduct the total from the
Interceptor’s ARMOUR. If you survive the explosion,
turn to 134.

122

Neither of the bikers saw you jump out of the
Interceptor. You are able to walk around and sur-
prise them from behind. It amuses you to svatch
them yelling over to where they think you are. The
time is ripe to tell them where you really are. You
firea warning shot in the air and tell them to drop all
their weapons. They obey immediately, deflated
because you have outwitted them. You walk over to
their motor cycle and notice a pannier strapped to
the side. You tel] them to open it. Inside there is a
pair of handcuffs, a map and 200 Credits. You
handcuff the bikers to their own bike and look at the
map. There is a red circle drawn around New Hope.
Obviously these men come from the same gang that
attacked New Hope. A small town named Rockville
is marked with a red cross and is not far south-east
from where you are now. No doubt it is the tempor-
ary home of the bikers, You decide to leave the
bikers for their friends to find, and change the
damaged wheel on the Interceptor (turn to 346).

123-125

123

You are driving too fast to be able to swerve around
the E-type. The Interceptor goes into an uncontroll-
able spin and rolls over, Unfortunately it comes to
rest on its roof, Suspended upside down by your
seat-belt, you see several pairs of feet approaching
the car. Leonardi and his friends dispense with
formalities and drag you out of your car. They tie
you up and leave you for the vultures. You watch
helplessly as they set the Interceptor on fire. You
have failed in your mission,

124
You are soon back at the T-junction and stop to
decide which way to head, If you wish to turn right,
turn to 203. If you would rather turn left to head
west, turn to 344.

125
You spring up and leap at the guard. In the eerie
half-light, you see a barely visible look of surprise on
his face. You have the initiative and the chance to
silence him before he raises the alarm. Roll two dice.
if the total is the same as or less than your SKILL,
turn to 349. If the total is greater than your SKILL,
turn to 202.

126-127

126
You run across the road and press yourself against
the wall of the building, half expecting another shot
to ring out. Your heart beats fast as you creep
forward slowly to the corner of the building and
look round. There is nobody in sight down the
narrow street. You take one step around the corner
and then a voice shouts out, ‘OK, that’s far enough.
One more step and you'll be full of holes. Where are
you from?’ If you reply that you are from New
Hope, turn to 274. If you reply that you are a lone
road warrior, living nowhere in particular, turn to

155.

127

You press the release button on the dashboard and
watch the canister bounce along the road behind
you, It suddenly bursts open, scattering the pointed
iron spikes all over the road, Roll one die, If you roll
between 1 and 4, turn to 373- If you roll 5 or 6, turn to
220.

128-130

128

Justas you are beginning to enjoy the freedom of the
open road in the early-morning light, you are sud-
denly startled by the sight in your rearview-mirror
of a vehicle closing up on you. It is an armoured car
and you see a jet of flame flash from its gun barrel as
a shell is fired at you. It explodes to your left,
rocking the car, but you are able to keep control.
Will you:

Drop iron spikes? Turn to 312
Release an oil spray? Turn to 165
Carry out a high-speed

handbrake turn and face the

armoured car? Turn to 77

129
Suddenly there is a deafening explosion, and the
Interceptor is blown sideways by the force of a
detonated mine. Roll two dice and deduct the total
from the Interceptor's Armour, If you survive the
explosion, turn to 93.

130

You steer the Interceptor round a sharp bend and
are suddenly aware of an ominous rumbling sound.
Stones fall on to the road in front of you, quickly
followed by a shower of smal] boulders. It is clifficult
to look up the side of the canyon through your
narrow windscreen, but you are only too aware that
a landslide is beginning. If you wish to brake hard in
the hope that the rocks and boulders will fallin front
of you, turn to 324. If you think it better to accelerate
quickly away, turn to 71.

131-133

131

You search through the dead man’s pockets and
find 150 Credits and a pair of knuckle-dusters. You
pocket your findings and, when you feel strong
enough, limp back to your Interceptor, wondering
how long your Med-Kit will last. You turn the
ignition key and burn up the road, heading east
(turn to 22).

132
You just beat your opponent to the draw, and watch
him drop to the ground as your bullet finds its mark,
You climb back inside the driver’s cabin and set off
north. All day you drive as fast as the tanker will go.
Apart from a disorganized ambush attempt in the
late afternoon, which you easily smash through
with the armoured tanker, there are no incidents on
the road, It is nearly dusk when you reach the
outskirts of New Hope, its high, defended walls a
strange but welcoming sight. If you were bitten by a
rat on your homeward journey, turn to 275. If you
escaped being bitten, turn to 380.

133
You are unable to control the speeding Interceptor
and crash into the truck, Roll two dice and deduct
the total from your car's ARMOUR score, If you
survive the crash, turn to 151-

134-138

134
If you still wish ta drive back to the road to head
south, turn to 207. If you would rather take up the
challenge of the Blitz Race after all, turn to 330.

135

As the flames die down, you watch the bandit circle
the car slowly. He calls out to you, making insults
and derisory comments. His only weapon appears
to bea dagger, which he is holding in his right hand.
Trapped inside the car, you have no option but to
climb out and confront the man. You draw your gun
and open the door. As you step out, he immediately
throws his dagger at you, Roll two dice. If the total is
the same as or less than your sKiLt, turn to 193. If
the total is greater than your SKILL, turn to 36.

136
Amber curses and then bursts out laughing. The
tube of energy pills that she was carrying has fallen
out through a hole in her packet. Turn to 32.

137
You swerve sharply to the left, narrowly missing the
stone pillar, and pass under the bridge. If you wish
to stop to deal with your attacker, turn to 281. If you
would rather keep driving south, turn to 150.

138
You stagger back from the thug as he slumps to the
floor; just then the girl starts up the engine of the
hot-rod, In a cloud of burning rubber she screeches

139-141

up the road on to the highway and is gone. If you
wish to chase her, turn to 75. If you would rather
search the garage, turn to 146.

139

The Ford slows down fora bend in the road, but you
keep your foot down hard on the accelerator. You
cash into the back of the Ford, but only succeed in
damaging the Interceptor. Lose 2 ARMouR points.
The Ford has steel-plated crash bars built to sith-
stand ramming. You realize that you will have to
overtake the Ford in order to use your rear missile
weapons, As though he has read your mind, the
Ford's driver starts to swing the car from side to side
%© stop you passing. It will take considerable man-
ceuvring skill to pass him. Roll two dice. If the total
s the same as or less than your SkiLt, turn to 8. If
‘he total is greater than your SKILL, turn to 287.

140
You travel about eighty kilometres before the road
ends at a T-junction. You decide to turn right in the
direction of San Anglo (turn to 23).

141
You settle down to relax in the shade, while Pete
susily sets to work on the engine. He taps and bangs
away, whistling happily; you driftin and out of light
sicep. Two hours later, he slams down the rein-
forced engine cover and says, ‘OK, she's ready to
soll." After giving Pete the 100 Credits and two packs
®¢ medical supplies, you start up the Interceptor and

OE —— Oe

SF

142-144

accelerate away as fast as possible. You can feel the
extra acceleration in your back, and smile con-
tentedly, Pete has done a good job, Add 1 Luck
point and turn to 88.

142

You screech to a halt, but leave your engine run-
ning. Through your loudspeaker, you tell the man
to raise his arms into the air and not to try any tricks.
You notice that his motor bike is lying on its side just
off the road. With your gun drawn, you carefully
step out of the car. Suddenly the man in denim runs
off the road and dives into the ditch just as some-
thing flies through the air and bounces on to the
road between you and the Interceptor. With horror
you see that it isa grenade, You see a blinding flash
and in the same instant a deafening explosion
knocks you off your feet. Test your Luck, If you are
Lucky, turn to 299. If you are Unlucky, turn to 25,

143
Fearing that the two bikers might be part of a gang.
you drive off south straight away in case the other
members appear (turn to 96).

144
Your headlights cut a white path through the night.
On several occasions you have to siverve around
abandoned cars and, as the night draws on, fatigue
makes concentration very difficult. Roll two dice. If
the total is the same or less than your SKILL, turn to
68. If the total is greater than your SKILL, turn to 168.

145-146

145
One of the gang sitting by the camp-fire has a
sudden desire to sit in his beloved car. He stands up
and walks over to the compound — and spots you
crouching down by the fence. He calls out to his
friends, saying, ‘Hey, guess what, everybody —
we've got visitors!’ Pointing his rifle at you, he tells
you to stand up and put your hands in the air.
Within seconds you are surrounded by ten Doom
Dogs, each one holding a gun. Your fate rests with

_ gang of desert outlaws, your mission a certain
failure,

146

Everything inside the garage is either broken or
useless. The office and workshop are filled with
rubbish and a thick layer of dust covers everything.
The man and the girl must just use the place occa-
sionally as a trap for unwary passers-by. The only
tem you find that might be of use is a heavy chain.
You coil it up and pack it inside the Interceptor
Sefore driving off on to the highway (turn to 167).

147-149

147

You shout at the citizens to fall back and take cover
inside the cabins, They obey your command and the
battle commences. Suddenly, one of the Doom
Dogs runs out from behind cover towards the
armoured petrol tanker which has been prepared
for you to drive back to New Hope. You shoot at
him, but miss, and watch him open the driver's
door. You have no choice but to run through the
crossfire to stop him driving the tanker away. Tes!
your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 235. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 279.

148

You stamp down on the accelerator and release the
clutch at the same time. The back wheels spin, but
do not gain any traction. By the time you are mov-
ing, the Ford is already way ahead. Lose 1 Luck
point. Suddenly the Ford brakes hard and you race
by it into the lead. In your rearview-mirror you
watch the Ford accelerating quickly towards you. It
must be supercharged. There is nothing you can do
to stop being rammed. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 354. If you are Unlucky, turn to 247.

149

The country road runs straight ahead far into the
distance and you are able to make good headway, as
it is relatively free from abandoned cars. After an
hour's driving at high speed you arrive at a T-
junction. If you wish to continue driving south, turn
to 225, If you wish to turn left and head east, turn to
114.

150-152

150
It is not long before the green vegetation gives wav
to more barren terrain, with tufts of dry grass dotted
on top of the stony, brown earth, You are soon at 2
major intersection on the edge of the desert. You
stop at the crossroads and see that the road heading
east is blocked with abandoned cars. If you wish to
drive south into the desert, turn to 46. [f you wish to
turn right to head west, turn to 298.

151
You drive off the bridge, heading west again. You
soon come to a T-junction which offers you a choice
of roads. If you wish to keep driving west, turn to
179. lf you would rather drive south, turn to 362.

152
You slam on the brakes and screech to a halt. The
Ford crashes into your rear bumpers as the grenade
explodes harmlessly in front of you. The ram,
however, causes 2 points of damage to your
ARMOUR, You accelerate and then brake again sud-
denly. The Ford swerves around you and acceler-
ates away. As you are not allowed to use your
forward-firing weapons, you decide to try to ram
the Ford (turn to 139),

153-154

153

You continue to make good headway along the
country roads. The untended fields on both sides of
the road have grown wild, and you wonder how
long it will be before they are farmed again, The
road soon ends at a T-junction and you decide to
tu i left to head south towards San Anglo (turn to
225).

154

Amber silences her two opponents, but you do not
realize that you were being watched during your
fight with the Doom Dogs. A fifth person remained
inside the station-wagon — the Animal! On seeing
the last of his gang fall to the ground, he leaps out of
the station-wagon and runs at you unarmed, snort-
ing like an angry bull. He is a terrifying sight in the
moonlight. Huge and bare-chested, he wears a
tight-fitting black face-mask, knee-high boots with
steel toecaps, and his clenched fists are wrapped in
studded leather. Before you have time to react, he
wraps his arms around you ina bear hug and starts
‘0 Squeeze, Lose 2 STAMINA points, Amber dares
not risk shooting in case she hits you, and she looks
eround frantically for a hand-weapon. She grabs a
spanner from the back of the car and runs to your
aid. Roll 1 die. [f you roll 1 or 2, turn to 245. IE you roll
detiveen 3 and 6, turn to 376.

155-156

155

A man suddenly appears out of a doorway and
walks towards you with his shotgun pointed at you.
He looks at you sternly and says, “You look like the
person who shot up my station-wagon, killing my
wife and son last week. Now I'll have my revenge -
only | fight fair. Draw whenever you are ready.” You
realize that it was a mistake to lie to the man. Lose 1
Luck point. If you wish to try to talk your way out of
the problem, turn to 219. If you would rather draw
your gun, turn to 333,

156
‘thought that's what you said, but it’s just that I've
never heard of them before. I hope they aren’tall as
good at racing as you are. | expect I'll see you again —-
I’m going to join the others now,’ says the tattooed
man. Much to your relief he walks away, leaving
you to drive off down the rough road to the main
road where you tum right to head south (turn to

207).

157

The dirt track is rough and bumpy, and you realize
that people for miles around will see the dust that
the speeding Interceptor is throwing up, Neverthe-
less, you are determined to reach Rockville. Sud-
denly, you see a blinding flash on top of a boulder in
the distance, Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to
222. If you are Unlucky, turn to 315.

emailed

ih a

158-160

158

You start up the Interceptor and turn to face your
attackers. Your headlights illuminate a customized
station-wagon which has thick sheets of plate steel
riveted to its body and a pointed ramming bar
protruding from its front grill, Machine-gun nozzles
housed on either side of the ram bar suddenly apen
tire.

STATION-
WAGON FIREPOWER1Q ARMOUR 19

You are too close to the station-wagon to be able to
launch a rocket, even if you have one left, and must
return fire with your own machine-guns. If you
survive three Attack Rounds of Vehicle Combat,
turn to 67.

159
Before too long you are back at the bridge which
crosses the highway. You continue east along the
road (turn to 342).

160
The guard hears the noise caused by the rolling
stone and looks down in your direction. He is only a
few metres above you. If you wish to jump up and
try to silence him before he raises the alarm, turn to
293. If you would rather keep still on the ground,
turn to 367,

161-164

161
You shake your head and concentrate hard on your
driving. After nearly falling asleep at the wheel
several times during the night, your weariness de-
parts as the first rays of morning sunlight creep over
the horizon. You drive on south towards San Anglo
with renewed enthusiasm (turn to 128).

162
You see the look of surprise on Leonardi’s face as
you attempt to swerve round his parked car. Roll
two dice. If the total is the same as or less than your
SKILL, turn to gq. If the total is greater than your
SKILL, turn to 123.

163
You are soon driving at high speed, until you arrive
ata signpost which points down a narrow dirt track
towards a town called Rockville. If you wish to drive
south to Rockville, turn to 157. If you would rather
keep heading east, turn to 45. ‘

164
The hijacker tells you to step down on the road and
prepare to draw your revolver, You jump down
from the cabin and face the fearsome-looking man.
With his crossbow pointed at the ground, he snarls
loudly in order to unnerve you. But you are unper-
turbed by his tactics, and tell him to fire whenever
he is ready. His arm comes up quickly to signal the
start of the duel, Roll 1 die and add the number to

your current SKILL score. Roll the die again and add |

165-166

the number to the hijacker’s skitt of 7. If your total
i the same as or greater than that of the hijacker,
turn to 132. If the total is lower than that of the
hijacker, turn to 205,

165

You lean forward and press the button on the
dashboard which releases the oil spray. The
armoured car drives straight over the oil slick, and
you watch with amusement as the driver struggles
to contro] the skidding vehicle. Roll one die. If the
number is between 1 and 5, turn to 234. If the
number rolled is 6, turn to 280.

166

There is one wheel, in reasonable condition, re-
maining on the Interceptor, The tyre is flat but can
easily be inflated again with the can of Flat-U-Fix. It
does not take long to remove the wheel and store it
inside your own car. If you wish to look inside the
crashed car, turn to 253. If you would rather con-
tinue your journey south, turn to 13,

fi a

167-168

167

Sespite the hazard of having to avoid abandoned
ars, the highway is wide enough for you to gather
plenty of speed. It's exciting to drive so freely,
eithout fear of being hauled in by the police for
solating some traffic regulation or other. You smile
your speed reaches 190 kilometres per hour, but
your joy is shortlived: you suddenly see a red Chev-
molet, heavily reinforced with steel plating, coming
ight towards you. Somebody is sitting in a small
surret on the roof—a machine-gunner. You think to
yourself that maybe having to deal with the police in
the old days wasn’t so bad compared with what is
soming at you now. You breathe in deeply and get

ready to press the machine-gun fire button.

RED CHEVVY FIREPOWER8 ARMOUR15

= you manage to destroy the Chevvy in this Vehicle
Combat, turn to 188,

168
sate in the night, your tiredness slows down your
meactions. A bus appears in your headlights, and
you swerve too late to avoid hitting it. Roll two dice
and deduct the total from the Interceptor’s
akMour. If you survive the crash, turn to 327,

s69~17

16
‘The man works for an hour, welding on extra std
panels and patching up holes where he can. The
Interceptor looks in a very sorzy state, but at least
is better protected. Add 10 armour points. You
thanktheman forhis work, pay him, and setoffeas
again (tur to 259).

370
‘The man does not notice what you are doing and
‘you manage to slip the knuckle-dusters on to your
fingers. You spin round and swing your fist at the
man’s face. Roll two dice. Ifthe total is the same as
co less than your SKILL, turn to 363. Ifthe total is:
‘greater than your sxrLt, turn to 87. °

im
Luckily, none of the stzay bullets hits you. You
‘wonder how long your Med-Kitis going to last if the
mission is going to continue being so dangerous.
‘When you finally feel strong enough to drive, you
limp over to the Interceptor and burn up the road,
heading east (turn to 23),

aa-a74

ap
Miracuously, you manage to drive swiftly through
the falling rocks and boulders without being hit
You breathea sigh of relief when you are clear of the
landslide, and slow down toa safer speed for nego-
tiating the winding road (turn to 353)

173
A second shell is fired from the farmhouse with
devastating effect against your damaged Intercep-
tor. You do not survive the explosion.

74
‘The man makes the mistake of aiming at your chest,
unaware of your protection. The bullet does you no
arm. You do nat give him a second chance and
fling open the door to pull him out of the driver's
seat on to the ground, He is easily overcome, and
then you order him to tell his friends to cal off the
attack, He reluctantly agrees to your demand and
the shooting stops almost immediately. You keep
‘your gun trained on your hostage while you watch
175

the rest of the Doom Dogs retreat back into the
desert. You let the captured Doom Dog follow his
friends to the jeers and cheers of the inhabitants of
the San Anglo refinery, After helping with the
repairs to the entrance, you tell them that it is time
for you to leave, You climb into the cabin of the
tanker and wave farewell. You feel sad to be aban-
doning your faithful Interceptor, but realize the
importance of this mission. Two cars escort you
north along the road until you reach the edge of the
desert, Then they turn and drive back to San Anglo,
leaving you alone on the highway once more, You
decide to head directly north, ignoring al] turnings
that you come to. The day passes without incident
and you keep on driving well into the night. When
you are too tired to drive any further, you pull intoa
motel car-park, as there are no lights showing in the
rooms. If you wish to sleep inside the cabin of the
tanker, turn to 218, If you wish to go inside the
motel, turn to 335.

175
The grenade fails to explode and you are left racing
ahead of the yellow car by some fifty metres (turn to

349).

176
Roll two dice. If the total is the same as or less than
your SKIL! score, turn to 108. If the total is higher
than your SKILL score, turn to 350.

177
You drive along the edge of the desert for about
eighty kilometres until you arrive at a major in-
tersection. The road ahead is blocked with aban-
doned cars so you decide to turn right to head south
again (turn to 46)-

178-179

178

You frantically turn the ignition key and pump the
accelerator, but the engine will not start. You look
inside the engine compartment and notice that the
fuel pipe has come away from the carburettor. You
twist it back on and are about to climb back into the
car when you suddenly feel a tickling sensation
down your spine. You whirl round and see a man
standing motionless, feet slightly apart, pointing a
large-bore hand-gun at you, passibly an old Mag-
num. He is dressed as a cowboy with boots, stetson
hat and even a cigar in his mouth. Ina low voice he
growls, ‘Draw!’

OUTLAW SKILLQ

Resolve this combat using the Shooting rules, but
reduce your SKILL by 2 for the first Attack Round as
the outlaw has the initiative, If you win, turn to 375,
but reduce your SKILL permanently by 1 pointif you
are shot more than once.

STAMINA 12

179
Standing in the middle of the road, waving his arms
frantically, isa man wearing denim jeans and jacket.
A motor-cycle helmet covers his head. If you wish to
stop to talk to him, turn to 142. If you would rather
drive past him, turn to 215.

180-183

180
You stop the car and pour the contents of the can
into the petrol tank. You know that you do not have
enough fuel to reach San Anglo and wonder where
you will find some more in this desert wilderness. It
is a depressing thought, which weighs on your
mind as you set off again (turn to 243).

181
You watch with satisfaction as the front tyres of the
armoured car are shredded by the spikes, forcing
the driver to brake hard. You accelerate away, leav-
ing behind the stranded armoured car (turn to 47).

182

You craw] painfully into the tall grass and wait.
Soon you hear the noise of approaching footsteps.
Through the grass you see a scruffy man, gun in
hand, standing only a few metres away. A cigar
hangs out of the corner of his mouth and around his
head is tied a red headband, He is obviously the
man who set the booby-trap. Suddenly he sees your
trail of blood leading into the grass, He turns and
fires blindly into the grass. Test your Luck. [f you are
Lucky, turn to 227. If you are Unlucky, turn to 116.

183
The Ford driver is anticipating your breakaway, and
calmly presses the button of the grenade-launcher.
The grenade flies over the Interceptor and bounces
along the road in front of you. Will you accelerate
over it (turn to 43) or brake hard (turn to 152)?

184-185

184
e Doom Dogs are too enraged to care about their
word of honour, They draw their weapons, and a
shoot-out begins. You take on two of them while
Amber returns fire at the other two,

SKILL STAMINA
First DOOM DOG 7 13
Second DOOM DOG 8 14

During this Shooting combat, both Doom Dogs will
fre separately at you during each Attack Round, but
you must choose which of the two you will fire at,
Against the other you will throw for your Attack
Strength in the normal way, but you will not wound
him if your Attack Strength is greater — you must
must count this as though you dodged his bullet, Of
course, if his Attack Strength is greater, he will
wound you in the normal way. If you win, turn to
69, but reduce your SKILL permanently by 1 point if
you are shot more than once during the shoot-out.

185

The door opens into a room that has recently been
occupied. There are unfinished cups of coffee on the
table and the front wheel of a motor cycle propped
up against the wall, its inner tube lying on the floor,
Somebody was obviously in the process of mending
2 puncture. There is also a tool-kit on the table,
mside which you find a pair of heavy-duty wire-
cutters which you decide to take with you. If you
have not done so already, you may open the door to
the room opposite (turn to 72); or you may leave the
house (turn to 246).

186-188

186
Yawning almost constantly, you try to concentrate
on driving down the straight country road; but after
the efforts of the day, fatigue makes you fall asleep

at the wheel. You drive straight into the back of an_

abandoned truck which is half blocking the road.
Roll two dice and deduct the total from the Intercep-
tor’s ARMOUR, If you survive the crash, turn to 348.

187
You do not have anything with which to siphon the

petrol out of the tank, and have no alternative but to |

carry on south (turn to 118).

188
You stop your Interceptor to examine the burning
wreck, Who were these people and why did they
attack you without warning? You shake your head |
and hit the accelerator, eager to reach your destine-
tion, You are passing a security truck and thinking
about all the money inside it which is now useless,

189

when suddenly a voice comes through on your
radio above the crackling static, It is one of New
Hope's leaders. She tells you how a gang of bikers
have just attacked New Hope, killing eight people
in the process. After a short battle, they were even-
tually beaten off. She warns you to be on the look-
out for them, as they have kidnapped Sinclair, the
council leader. You acknowledge the message and
say goodbye. After an hour or so of driving without
any further incident, you notice that your petrol
gauge is dropping; the Interceptor is very heavy on
petrol. You stop and pour the contents of the fuel
canister into the tank, realizing that you will have to
find some more petrol soon. A few kilometres furth-
erand you know your luck has really run out. There
must have been a car crash at the time of the disaster
which caused a huge tail-back of now-abandoned
cars. [tis impossible to continue along the highway.
You reverse back to the last exit and drive off the
highway. You must decide which way to head along
the road which crosses over it. If you wish to drive
east, turn to 341. If you wish to drive west, turn to
66,

189
Leading off the road on your right is a rough road
which is marked with several sets of tyre tracks, The
tracks look as if they were made quite recently. If
you wish to drive down the rough road, turn to 24. If
you would rather stay on course for San Anglo, turn
to 207.

190-192

190
It is frustrating just to sit inside the tanker. All is
quiet until you hear the sound of footsteps walking
along the top of the trailer. The hijacker intends to
creep up on you from behind. You open the cabin
door and climb up the metal ladder to meet him. As
soon as your head appears, he fires his crossbow at
you. Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 345. If
you are Unlucky, turn to 30.

191
A bullet punctures one of your front tyres. You
momentarily lose control of the carand hita boulder
at high speed, Roll one die and deduct the number
from the car’s ARMOUR for the crash damage. You
cannot drive on the flat tyre, but it is dangerous to
leave the car while under fire. Suddenly you see
another blinding flash; the bazooka is being fired
through a top-floor window of the farmhouse. You
are a sitting target and the shell does not miss. Roll
two dice and deduct the total from your car's
ARMOUR, If yOu survive the explosion, turn to 292.

192
The tattooed man does not fall for the trick, and
easily sidesteps your attempted karate kick. He
points the machine-gun at you and tells you to walk
on, but as soon as you are in front of him he slams
the butt of the gun against the back of your head.
You crumple to the ground, unconscious (turn to
100).

rr

193-194

193
You duck down behind the car door and the dagger
bounces harmlessly off it. From out of a shoulder-
holster the man pulls a small revolver ready for the
shoot-out.

BANDIT

Resolve this combat using the Shooting rules, but
add 1 point to your own sKILt for the duration of the
battle because of your cover behind the car door. If
you win, turn to 64, but reduce your SKILL per-
manently by 1 point if you are shot more than once.

SKILL? STAMINA 11

194

Both dune buggies are ablaze; you decide to get
away as quickly as possible. Eighty kilometres
further south, you see a range of flat-topped hills
rising out of the desert sand directly ahead, The
road finally ends at the foot of these hills. Looking
left and right, you see the road run straight as an
arrow east to west, If you wish to turn left, turn to
257. If you wish to turn right, turn to 221.

195-196

195

You turn the handle and pull. An explosion, accom-
panied by a brilliant white flash and deafening
naise, sends you reeling backwards. The door was
booby-trapped! Roll 1 die and deduct the number
from your STAMINA score. The door hangs off its
hinges but there is nothing inside the ambulance. Its
owner will probably be on his way now to see who
he has caught. You feel too weak to reach the
Interceptor, and decide to craw! into hiding. If you
wish to hide in the grass, turn to 182. If you wish to
hide under the ambulance, turn to 356.

196
Heeding the man’s advice, you keep a wary eye out

for falling rocks and drive through the canyon very

slowly. Suddenly you hear an ominous rumbling
sound ahead, You steer round a sharp bend and see
a landslide in progress, with rocks and boulders
crashing down on to the road. It soon stops, and
you are able to continue, as the road is not complete-
ly blocked {turn to 351)-

197-199

197

You stop the car and get out to empty the fuel
canister into the petrol tank. The canister does not
hold much petrol and you realize that you will have
to be on the look-out for more, if you hope to reach
San Anglo. By the time you set off again it is early
evening and you watch the setting sun through the
right-hand window, Soon it will be dark and there is
a new decision to make. Will you:

Drive off the road and sleep

inside the Interceptor? Turn tog
Find a building to spend the

night inside? Turn to 3214
Drive on through the night? Turn to 144

198
You reach the barbed-wire fence and see eight vehi-
cles inside its perimeter. The coiled wire is too finely
meshed for you to be able to squeeze through
without becoming entangled. If you possess a pair
of wire-cutters, turn to 85. If you do not, turn to 255-

199
The farmhouse is an easy target and the rocket does
not miss. The explosion destroys the farmhouse.
sending fragments of brick and wood flying
through the air. When the dust has settled, you

200-201

drive cautiously ahead, one finger against the
machine-gun trigger. You stop alongside the burn-
ing farmhouse, but see no signs of life. You turn off
the engine and wind down the window of the
Interceptor. You hear the desperate cry of a man
calling for help, If you wish to get out of the car to
investigate, turn to 262. If you would rather drive
south out of town, turn to 353.

200

You manage to avoid a head-on collision, but are
rammed in the side by the station-wagon, Its
pointed ram bar pierces the Interceptor’s reinforced
panel, locking the two vehicles together. The sta-
tion-wagon’s loudspeaker immediately barks out a
message from the Animal — fight him hand to hand
or shoot it out. If you wish to fight the Animal, turn
to 269. If you wish to shoot it out, turn ta 102.

201

Suddenly there is a dull thud, and the Interceptor
tocks from side to side. Roll two dice and deduct the
total from the Interceptor’s armour. lf you survive
the explosion, turn to 266,

202-203

202

Although you knock the guard to the ground, he
remains conscious, and calls out to his friends. They
all leap up and run over to where you are fighting.

Amber shouts at you to run down the hill to escape.
But before there is time to do anything, you are
mown down by a hail of bullets. Your adventure is
over.

203

The road is open and wrecked cars are an infrequent

hazard, The speedometer reads well above the max-
imum speed-limit that used to control the road, but
you know that there is no chance of getting
speeding-ticket now. Your enjoyment, however, is

short lived: a road-block of upturned cars and trucks.

comes into view. You slow down and survey the
scene, sensing danger. Will you:

Fire a rocket at the road-block? Turn to 372
Try to drive around the

road-block? Turn to 317
Turn around and drive back to the

last junction to head south? Turn to 278

204-206

204
The bullets miss you and you start the engine with-
out delay. Ina cloud of dust you screech away down
the rough road to the highway, where you tum
nght at speed to head south (turn to 207).

205
Your opponent is quicker to the draw than you are.
He fires the crossbow bolt with deadly accuracy,
into the middle of your chest. You sink to the
ground, firing your gun wildly. Your adventure
ends here.

206

You fire at the lock on the pannier. Three shots and
it’s open. Inside you find a pair of handcuffs, a map
and zoo Credits. After putting the handcuffs and
Credits in your jacket pocket, you look at the map.
There is a red circle drawn around New Hope.
Obviously these men came from the same gang that
attacked New Hope. A small town named Rockville
is marked witha red cross and is not too far south-
east from where you are now. No doubt it is the
temporary home of the bikers. You decide to change
the wheel on your Interceptor before any of the
bikers’ friends arrive (turn to 346).

207-209

207 «-

You flash pasta handwritten sign which reads ‘Pete
makes engines sweet. One mile to the left.’ You
slow down as you approach a stone building with a
corrugated iron workshop attached to it which has
the words ‘Spark Plug Pete's’ painted on a billboard
on top of the roof. There are a few cars parked on the
forecourt. As you come fo a halt, a thin pale man
appears from the workshop wearing an oily blue
mechanic’s overall and a baseball cap. He waves
and says, ‘Nice car, Pretty fast, I guess. But not as
fast as old Pete can make it. If you are interested, I
like payment in Credits and goods, Ill doa good jab
for you.’ If you wish to stop to let the mechanic
modify your engine, turn to 28. If you would rather
refuse his offer politely and continue your journey
~ south, turn to 88.

208
The man fells you that it has been an honour
fighting you in such a civilized manner. He goes on
to say that, after the road has passed through the
tunnel, it then winds through a twisting canyon and
you should be on the look-out for landslides. You
thank the strange man for his advice and drive into
the tunnel, once he has reversed the bus out of the
way. Sure enough, you find yourself driving along
the winding road through the canyon (tum to 196).

209
As you hand the keys to the thug, he merely snig-
gers and Junges at you with his crowbar. You are

210-211

knocked unconscious and, when you awake, you
find that the couple and their hot-rod are gone — but
so too is your Interceptor, You have failed in your
mission,

210

Roll one die alternately, once for the E-type and
once for the Interceptor, adding 1 to the number
rolled for the Interceptor because of its superchar-
ger. Continue rolling until one car reaches a total of
24 to cross the finishing-line first. If you win, turn to
54. [f you lose the race, turn to 322.

211

You soon leave the hills behind, but the road con-
tinues to run west. Half an hour later, the engine
starts to misfire, and not much further down the
road it cuts out completely. You get out of the car
and diagnose the problem as sand in the car-
burettor. Just as you have finished cleaning it out,
you hear the deep thumping sound of an engine
overhead. You look up and see a helicopter hover-
ing above you. Itis covered with splashes of fluores-
cent yellow paint and you notice that a gunman is
sitting in the cockpit next to the pilot. Through a
loudspeaker one of them instructs you to empty all
the Interceptor’s missile weapons on to the road. If
you wish to abey them, turn to 11. If you would
rather jump inside the Interceptor and open fire on
the helicopter, turn to 83.

EOE EE ooo, oo Lf |< —  —-— —

212-213

212

The car slides to a halt in a cloud of dust, and you
jump out firing your revolver. The two bikers return
fire as you scramble away from the Interceptor
before the mine explodes, You dive on to the
ground to hide behind a bush, just as the explosion
rips through the air, wrecking a wheel. Lose 2
ARMOUR points. The dust settles and all is silent,
until one of the bikers calls out to you, saying,
‘Throw out your gun and keys. We only want your
car.’ If you wish to obey them, turn to 283. If you
would rather fight it out, turn to 6.

213
The oil sinks into the dirt-covered road and has no
effect on the car behind, Lose 1 LUCK point. The
driver of the Ford retaliates by firing a grenade over
your car to Jand on the road in front of you, There is
a muffled explosion as the steel-plated underchassis
takes the full blast of the grenade, Roll two dice and
deduct the total from your car's ARMouR. If you
survive the explosion, turn to 294.

214-216

214
As you approach the group under the trees, you
realize that you will have to try and make a run [or it.
You pretend to stumble and then suddenly kick
your leg out sideways at the tattooed man. Roll one
die, If you roll between 1 and 4, turn to 192. If you
roll 5 or 6, turn to 347.

215
You travel west looking for a major road going
south, But the decision is made for you when you
arrive at a solid tail-back of cars just beyond a left
turning. The impassable blockade of cars and trucks
stretches into the distance as far as you can see, all of
them long since abandoned. If you wish to head
south, turn to14g. lf you would rather stop and look
inside some of the abandoned vehicles, turn to 10.

216
The road eventually ends at a T-junction and you
are able to turn left to head south once again (turn to

243).
217-218

217

The man appears unperturbed as you run towards
him. He continues to chant about cleansing the
earth and ridding the world of all traces of the
decadent past. You reach him just as he is about to
throw the lighted match on to the Interceptor. Roll
two dice, If the total is the same as or Jess than your
SKILL, turn to 285. If the total is higher than your
SKILL, turn to 50.

218 °

Although you sleep very lightly, waking at the
slightest sound, the night passes peacefully. At first
light you are on the road again. Allis fine for an hour
or so, until you see in your wing mirror two motor
bikes approaching. Unfortunately the petrol tanker
is not armed with rear missile weapons, but it has a
swivel-mounted machine-gun on the cabin roof. As
they draw nearer, you see that both bikers are
carrying crossbows. They accelerate alongside the
tanker, one on each side, and fire their crossbows at
your front tyres. You reply by firing your machine-
gun at the bike on your left. Roll two dice- If the total
is the same as or less than your SKILL, turn to 52. If
the total is greater than your SKILL, turn to 324.

219

You tell him quickly that you did not kill his wife
and son. Test your Luck, lf you are Lucky, turn to 288.
If you are Unlucky, turn to 236.

220

The motor-bike rider somehow manages to steer the
vehicle around the spikes and the passenger opens
fire at you again. You decide to return fire with the
Interceptor’s machine-gun, although the swerving
target is difficult to hit.

MOTOR BIKE
and SIDECAR

lf you win this highway battle, turn to 143.

FIREPOWERQ ARMOUR S

221
The road cuts a straight black line through the
nightmare-red landscape. The desert heat rises
from the sand in shimmering waves and your air-
conditioner rattles in its noisy struggle to keep you
cool. Your radio picks up nothing but static and
crackles away monotonously. You keep the
accelerator pressed to the floor as you speed
through the badlands. Ahead in the distance you
see black smoke curling up into the air. You slow
down and brake alongside a burning car. It’s an old
sports car from the last century; a Corvette with its
200 brake horsepower V8 engine. A beast of the past
abruptly ending its life in a ball of fire. Leaning
casually against a boulder away from the burning
wreck is a blonde woman, wearing black overalls
and holding a shotgun. When she sees the Intercep-
torapproach, she runs out into the road to wave you
down. You stop in front of her, your hand reaching
for your revolver in case she tries to hijack the
Interceptor. You ask her where she is going, andina
stern vaice she replies, ‘South, as far as you are
concerned. | just want a lift— unless you also belong
to that wild gang of road warriors who attacked me.’
You tell her that you are on a mission to San Anglo
and offer her a ride, ‘San Anglo!’ she yells. "You
must be the person we have been expecting from
New Hope!’ She jumps in the car and introduces
herself as Amber. She says that a message went out
to all patrol vehicles to be on the look-out for the
Interceptor, but she had to be sure that you were
who you said you were, She also tells you that there
is a complication. For the last two days, San Anglo

222-223

has been under constant attack from a large gang of
road warriors known as the Doom Dogs, led by a
man they call the Animal. It was the Doom Dogs
who attacked her, less than an hour ago, They are
determined to massacre the inhabitants of San
Anglo to have access to the reserves of petrol. It is
now virtually impossible to leave or enter San Anglo
without being attacked by their heavily armed cars
and motor bikes. There is only one solution — to
break into their camp at night and sabotage their
vehicles. The look of determination in Amber's eyes
convinces you that there is no alternative, and you
agree to help her. She slaps the dashboard in eager
excitement and tells you to drive south as quickly as
possible. Half an hour later, Amber tells you to stop.
In the distance, you can see smoke rising into the
air, ‘San Anglo refinery,’ she says in a proud voice.
"We'd rather die than let the vermin steal the petrol
from us. Turn left off the road. [t will be dark in an
hourand then we'll have to leave the carand walk to
the Doom Dogs’ camp.’ Test your Luck. Lf you are
Lucky, turn to 7. If you are Unlucky, turn to 331.

222
Somebody has fired a bazooka at you, but the shell
explodes harmlessly a few metres to your left. Turn

to 53.

223
You jack the car up and put on the spare wheel. A
few minutes later you are driving east again, care-
fully trying to avoid sharp stones. You drive for an
hour across the bumpy terrain, until you finally

224-226

reach another road running north to south, You
turn right on toit, grateful to be driving ona smooth
road again. You pass an articulated truck which
looks as if it has only recently been parked. If you
wish to stop and examine the truck, turn to 10g. If
you would rather drive on without stopping; turn to
118,

The first race is between a yellow Ford and a red
Porsche; they race off down the road, ramming each
other and using their array of weapons. They return
about six minutes later, the Ford winning by a
couple of seconds. Both cars Jook like wrecks. The
driver of the Ford leaps out of his car and begins
cheering. While he is still enjoying his victory, you
walk back to the Interceptor to drive back to the
main road to head south again (turn to 207).

225
The road cuts through overgrown fields, but there
are no obstructions on the road. You check your
milometer to see how far you have come, and see
that the petrol gauge is reading empty again.
If you have picked up a full fuel canister recently,
turn to 197. If you have not picked one up, turn
to 364.

226
Your attacker is well trained in the art of wrestling.
With one dextrous manoeuvre he flips you on to
your back and then pushes you off the top of the
trailer. You land heavily on the road below and are

227-229

knocked unconscious. You wake some time later,
but the petrol tanker is gone. You have failed in your
mission,

227
The bullet thuds into the ground only a metre away.
You immediately sit up and return fire,

HIGHWAYMAN

Resolve this combat using the Shooting rules, but
reduce your SKILL by 1 point for the duration of the
fight because of your injury. If you win, turn to 131,
but reduce your SKILL permanently by 1 pointif you
are shot more than once.

SKILLS STAMINA 12

228
‘Liar! I didn’t think you looked like a member of a
gang. Let’s hear what the others have to say about
this." He waves his machine-gun in the direction of
the trees where his friends are sitting. If you possess
a pair of knuckle-dusters, turn to 273, If you do not
have them, turn to 214.

229
You crawl on to the bridge, steering carefully to
avoid the wheels coming off the two main beams.
Suddenly there is a loud explosion. Somebody has
detonated the bridge, sending the Interceptor
crashing into the river below, You have failed in
your mission.

230-233

230

Set back about thirty metres from the road is a small
white building which is completely surrounded by
cars in various stages of assembly. Wheels, doors,
bumpers, axles, engines, gearboxes and seats are
strewn everywhere and, in the middle of it all, is a
man working away at one car, He is busy using an
oxy-acetylene torch on a door-panel, causing sparks
to fly everywhere. He is so engrossed in his work
that he doesn’t hear you arrive. If you wish to talk to
him about repairing the Interceptor, turn to a5. If
you would rather drive on, turn to 259.

231

The front wheels slam down on the opposite side of
the bridge, but the rear wheels just miss it. The car
slides backwards and plunges thirty metres into the
river below, You have failed in your mission.

232

The small group of spectators gathers around the
Ford to congratulate the driver. You drive past him
slowly, waving in salute of his victory, but do not
stop. You are bitterly disappointed at losing the race
and are keen to drive back to the main road to head
south (turn to 207).

233
After attending to your wound, you find that there
is nothing apart from rubbish and broken furniture
in the room; it was merely booby-trapped to deter
intruders. Lose 1 LucK point. If you have not done
234-237

so already, you may open the door of the room
opposite (turn to 185); or you may leave the house
(turn to 246).

234
The driver is unable to contro] the skidding
armoured car, and it runs off the road into a ditch.
You smile and accelerate away, leaving behind the
immobilized vehicle (turn to 47).

235
Keeping your head as low as possible, you run
across the open space without being caught in the
crossfire (turn to go).

236
The man looks at you and spits on the floor before
saying, ‘Draw, | said, you murdering scum!’ You
have no choice but to obey him (turn to 333).

237

You manage to drive south only eight kilometres
before the Interceptor becomes bogged down in soft
sand. The wheels spin, sending clouds of sand into
the air, but you only succeed in burying the Inter-
ceptor deeper. You curse your luck, but there is no
hope of extracting the car from the soft sand without
help. You try to dig it out, but it is a futile struggle,
and you realize despondently that you will have to
abandon the Interceptor. With luck you will make it
back to New Hope and try to reach San Anglo again
another time.

238-240

238
The tyre is not badly damaged and you are able to fix
the puncture with the can of Flat-U-Fix. It is not long
before you are driving east again (turn to 119).

239

The Ford races ahead over the bridge as you press
down on the accelerator again to try tocatch up. You
see the finishing-line ahead, no more than two
hundred metres away, and realize that the race is
lost. The Ford crosses the finishing line a car's
length ahead of the Interceptor. Lose 1 LUCK point
and turn to 232.

240
You take 200 Credits out of your pocket and thrust
them towards the man with the scar. He snatches
them from you and says, ‘There's a sucker born
every minute. Get in your car. Let's do it. We race
for eight kilometres down the dirt road, turn around
at the white house, and race back. And remember,
there are no holds barred in a Blitz Race, except
bullets and rockets.’ You climb inside the Intercep-
tor, start it up and craw! forward to the starting-line,
Your opponent draws alongside you in his bright
yellow Ford. You see that it is armed with two
machine-guns and a grenade-launcher. A girl
standing in between the two cars raises a white
towel into the air and then suddenly pulls itdown to
signal the start of the race. Roll two dice. If the total
is the same as or less than your SKILL, turn to 3. If
the total is greater than your SKILL, turn to 148.

241-242

241
Using an iron bar from the tanker's tool-box, you
soon prise the motel door open. You walk cautious-
ly into the reception area, where your nostrils are
filled with a nauseating smell of rotting vegetation,
You shine your torch around and see rubbish and
filth strewn all over the floor. Swing doors open into
the main hallway, and there is a staircase leading to
the upper floor, As you survey the scene, you
suddenly hear the sound of light footsteps above
you, You shine the torch up the staircase and catch
sight of a pair of feet. A sinewy old man dressed in
tattered rags suddenly runs down the stairs holding
a huge rat in each hand. ‘This is the home of the rat
man,’ he shouts in a scratchy voice, ‘and you will
pay for your unwelcome visit!’ Catching you off
balance, he throws the two rats at you. They land on
your chest and you try frantically to brush them off,
You are bitten just once before you manage to get
them off you. Lose 1 STAMINA point. The rat man
laughs manjacally and mins back up the stairs. You
decide that the motel is no place to spend the night
and walk back to the tanker, You drive a few miles
further up the road before finding somewhere else
to park, and remain inside the cabin to sleep (turn to
218).

242

Neither of the tyres is too badly damaged, and you
are able to inflate them with the can of Flat-U-Fix. It
is not long before you are motoring east again (turn
to 119}.

243-247

243
On the right-hand side of the road, you see an
abandoned police car, half-covered by a drift of
sand. If you wish to stop to see if there is anything of
use to you inside the car, turn to 109. If you would
rather keep driving south, turn to 49.

244
Your injury slows down your reflexes, and *your

hand has only just reached the handle of your knife
when the man fires three shots from his gunin quick
succession. He does not miss from point-blank
range, and you are dead before you hit the floor.

245
As Amber tries to strike the Animal with the span-
ner, he rolls on to the ground with you still locked in
his vice-like grip. Lose 2 STAMINA points. Again
Amber tries to strike the giant man. Roll 1 die. If you
roll 1 or 2, turn to 360. If you roll between 3 and 6,
turn to 376.

246
If you have not done so already, you may search the
general store (turn to 112). Otherwise there is no-

thing else to do except drive off south (turn to 353).

The Interceptor swerves to the left, but you steer
into the skid to keep the car under control, The Ford
rams you again, this time doing some damage. Lose
2 ARMOUR points. In your mirror you see the Ford

248-249

closing in again, and you have to think quickly to
decide what tactics to use, Will you accelerate away
(turn to 183) or brake hard to let the Ford pass you
{turn to 27)?

Your reactions are too slow and the driver's door
receives the full impact of the high-speed ram. The
pointed ram bar pierces the reinforced door, killing
you instantly. Your adventure ends in the desert
night.

You walk over to the wrecked bike, carrying your
revolver in one hand and the Med-Kit in the other.
One of the men is dead and the other is barely alive.
You kick his pistol away from him and see if he can
be saved. He opens his eyes, smiles and says, ‘Fal
Jack and the boys will get you for this." Then he
slumps back and is still. Your Med-Kit cannot help
him. You check the bike over and notice a locked
side-pannier. Jf you would like to open the pannier,
turn to 206. If you would rather head off east with-
out wasting any more time, turn to 163.
250-252

250
The man notices you putting your hand in your
pocket and tells you to keep on walking with your
hands on your head. As you approach the group
celebrating under the trees, you realize that you will
have to try to make a run for it, You pretend to
stumble and then suddenly kick your leg out side-
ways at the tattooed man. Roll one die. If you roll
between 1 and 4, turn to 192. If you roll 5 or 6, turh to

347-

251
You check your compass to make sure you are
heading directly east. The Interceptor vibrates as it
crosses the stony ground and suddenly you hear a
loud bang. The Interceptor becomes difficult to
steer, the obvious sign of a flat tyre. You stop to
inspect the damage and find that the tyre has blown
and cannot be inflated by Flat-U-Fix. If you are
carrying a spare wheel, turn to 223. If you do not
have a spare wheel, turn to 343.

252
You open the front door of the house and step
inside. Leading off the hallway there are two doors
facing, éach other, If you wish to open the door on

2537255

the left, turn to 185. If you wish to open the door on
the right, turn to 72.

253

You pull open the driver's door and reach inside to
open the glove compartment. Suddenly you hear a
rattling sound and realize with horror that you have
disturbed the nest of a rattlesnake. The snake strikes
and bites your arm, emptying deadly poison into
your veins. If you still possess a pack of medicine
from your Med-Kit, turn to 2. If you have used up all
the Med-Kit supplies, turn ta 357-

254
The countryside is picturesque in the early-morning
light, but you are unaware of the dangers ahead.
The road has been mined by country outlaws, wait-
ing to rob anybody passing through. Roll one die. If
you roll 1, 2 or 3, turn to 129. If you roll 4, 5 ar 6, turn
to 101.

255
You have no alternative but to crawl round the
perimeter of the barbed-wire fence until you reach
the entrance gate to the compound. Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, turn to 339. [f you are Unlucky, turn
to 145.

eee eae

256-258

256

Although bleeding badly, you manage to reach your
car. Lose 1 extra STAMINA point. You flop down into
the driver's seat and open one of the packs inside
the Med-Kit. Soon your wound is treated — pellets
removed and a layer of synthi-skin applied, with
bandages to cover it. Back behind the wheel, your
spirit returns as you drop the clutch and screech out
of town (turn to 34),

257

Up ahead you see that the road is blocked by a
barricade made of logs taken from an abandoned
truck. The long, thin barrel of some sort of weapon
protrudes from the logs. You decide to stop and
open the door of your car to negotiate with the
gunner to let you drive around the barricade. You
call out stating your request but the reply is curt and
to the point, “Go back. This is a car-free zone. You
have been warned.’ If you wish to heed the advice
and turn around to head west, turn to 337. If you
would rather ignore the advice and press on east,
turn fo g,

258
You run out of the outhouse and grab your Med-Kit
from the car. You use one pack of the medicine, but
this does not restore any STAMINA points; it merely
stops the poison from spreading further through
your system. Not wishing to spend the rest of the
night inside the outhouse, you must decide what to
do. If you wish to sleep inside the car, turn to 297, If

> ae

259-260

you wish to start your engine and drive on through
the night, turn to O144-

259 q

Ahead in the distance looms a range of hills, As you
arrive at the foot of the hills you see that the road
passes under them via a tunnel. Unfortunately
there is a bus blocking the entrance. You stop the car
and walk up to the bus to see whether or not it can
be started and moved out of the way. The driver's
door suddenly opens and a masked man jumps
down on to the road pointing a gun at you. ‘To pass
through this tunnel you must either pay me a toll of
200 Credits or engage me in a pistol duel,’ he says in
a very matter-of-fact tone. If you wish to pay the toll,
turn to 369. If you fancy your chances at a pistol
duel, turn to 291,

260

You shout at the robed man, telling him to move
away from your car, But he continues his chant
which appears to be about cleansing the earth and
ridding the world of all traces of the decadent past.
Paying no attention to you, he drops the lighted
match on to the Interceptor which is immediately
engulfed in flames. Your anger is futile; the fanatic
has put an end to your mission.

261-262

261
The back of the roof is squashed almost flat on to the
rear seats, but the driver's section is left intact. The
landslide is not heavy enough to block the road
completely and you are able to continue as soon as
the rocks stop falling (turn to 351).

262

You walk over towards the sound of the cry for help
and find that it is coming from inside a shack
attached to the general store. You ask who is inside
the shack ~ it’s Sinclair, New Hope’s council leader!
You search round and find an iron bar to prise open
the lock on the door. Soon Sinclair is free. Add 1
LUCK point. Sinclair tells you about the raid on New
Hope and his kidnapping. He asks you to radio to
New Hope to tell them that he will return by motor
bike as soon as possible. There are two bikes parked
in front of the General Store, of which he chooses
the old Harley Davidson. Thanking you for your
help, he waves goodbye and roars off north. Will
you:

Search the general store? Turn to 112
Search the nearest house? Turn to 252
Drive off south? Turn to 353

263-265

263
The bullet hits you in the chest, killing you instant-
ly. Your adventure comes to a sudden end.

Carrying the crowbar, you leap across the roofs of
the cars to hurry back to the Interceptor. Luckily itis
stil] where you left it and you are soon on the road
again, heading south (turn to 149).

265
You do not stop in case some more of Leonardi’s
friends appear. You keep up the same fast pace for
fifteen kilometres, until you pass an articulated

266-268

truck which looks as if it has only recently been
parked. If you wish to stop and examine the truck,
turn to 104. If you would rather drive on without
stopping, turn to 118.

266
The Ford races past you as you struggle to keep the
damaged car going. As you are not allowed to use
your forward-firing weapons, you decide to try to
ram the Ford (turn to 139).

267
You park your Interceptor and walk back to the
ambulance. The driver's cab is empty, although the
ambulance looks as if it has been driven quite re-
cently. If you wish to open the rear door to look
inside, turn to 195. If you would rather get back
inside the Interceptor and head east, turn to 22.

268
Fortunately the engine was not damaged by the
explosion and it starts up straight away. You drive
off hastily, lucky to have survived (turn to 303).

269-270

269

You shout out that you will accept the challenge to
fight the Animal, on condition that you will be
allowed to leave if you win. The Animal agrees to
the terms. You watch two men and two women
climb out of the station-wagon. They start to bang
on the Interceptor with their guns, chanting their
leader's name out loud: ’AN-I-MAL. AN-I-MAL.
AN-I-MAL,’, The station-wagon’s passenger door
slowly opens, and a huge, bare-chested man steps
out wearing a tight-fitting face-mask, His clenched
fists are Wrapped in studded leather and you notice
that his knee-high boots have steel toecaps, When
you step out of the car, he starts to snort like an
angry bull. As you walk forward to fight the Anim-
al, Amber shouts her encouragement to you.

THE ANIMAL SKILL 11 STAMINA 16

Resolve this fight to the death using the Hand
Fighting rules. The Animal's studded fists reduce
STAMINA by 2 points. If you possess knuckle-
dusters, you will also reduce STAMINA by 2 points.
Otherwise only 1 point will be deducted from the
Animal's STAMINA if you win an Attack Round. If
you win the fight, turn to 355.

270
You reverse your car to give yourself a long enough
run-up to the bridge. You tense slightly, and the
adrenalin starts to flow through your veins. The
engine roars as you pump the accelerator; then you
suddenly release the clutch and screech away to-

271-273

wards the bridge. You hit the bridge at 120
kilometres per hour and you watch the dial nse to
130 as the front wheels leave the ground. Roll two
dice. If the total is the same as or less than your
SKILL score, turn to 7o, If the total is greater than
your SKILL score, turn to 231.

274

The landscape turns to a reddish-brown as you
drive further into the desert. The road runs south
straight as an arrow and is virtually clear of aban-
doned cars. As you drive along, something you
recognize catches your eye. It is an overturned
Interceptor which must have veered off the road
and rolled over after its driver died at the wheei. lf
you wish to stop to see if there are any spares worth
taking, turn to 166. lf you would rather keep on
driving, turn to 13.

272
The road cuts through overgrown fields, but there
are no obstructions. You check your milometer to
see how far you have come and notice that the petrol
gauge is reading empty again, If you have picked up
a full fuel canister during your journey, turn to 323.
If you have not picked one up, turn to 364.

273
You walk ahead of the tattooed man and reach into
your jacket pocket for the knuckle-dusters. Tes! your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 170. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 250,

274-275

274

A man suddenly appears out of a doorway and
walks towards you with his shotgun pointed at you.
He looks at you sternly and says, ‘That's where I'm
heading. Been cycling for over a week since my
station-wagon was ambushed and my wife and son
were killed. Stopped here to get some cans of food
from a supermarket back there, when some crazy
dogs attacked me. Shot one of them and the others
ran off, My name’s Johnson. Pleased to meet you."
He puts down his shotgun and extends his hand for
you to shake. He tells you that he is a builder by
trade and asks how much further itis to New Hope,
and whether he is likely to be let in. You reply that it
is only another fifteen kilometres and his chances
are good — they need skilled people. You also tell
him about your mission and he warns you not to
stop at Joe’s Garage which is about eight kilometres
out of town. “They ain't got no petrol. They just rob
people who stop there.’ You thank Johnson for the
advice, wish him luck and walk back to your Inter-
ceptor. Its powerful engine roars into life when you
turn the ignition key, and you screech off once again
(turn to 34).

275
You start to feel dizzy and to shiver uncontrollably.
You are forced to stop, not feeling capable of driving
any further, With horror, you discover swellings on
your body caused by the bites of rat fleas infected
with plague! You know that the plague is acutely
infectious and realize what must be done, You

276-2758

abandon the tanker and set off across country todie,
a lone hero. You leave a note written in shaky
handwriting on the seat, telling the citizens of your
ill fate. A statue in your honour will be erected in the
year to come, but you will never see it.

276

You pull off the road and park the Interceptor
behind a row of bushes. When you turn the engine
off, you suddenly realize how quiet it is outside and
wonder if anybody heard you stop. You decide not
to go to sleep until it is totally dark, and spend a long
time eating your makeshift evening meal. When
you are finally convinced that nobody is now likely
to find you, you stretch out and go to sleep. In the
morning you wake early, feeling refreshed. Add 2
STAMINA points. You waste no time and drive back
on the the road to head south (turn to 128}.

277
The boot flies open and inside you find a bullet-
proof vest. Add 1 Luck pointand 1 SKILL point, You
put it on under your jacket and return to your car to
drive on (turn to 49).

278
Driving back to the junction, you become aware of a
resonating bumping sound coming from the rear of
the car. Steering becomes difficult and you are
forced to stop. You climb out and immediately
discover the problem -—a flat tyre. Lose 1 Luck point.
Reaching into the back of the car, you take hold of

gill

\ 279-281

the can of Flat-U-Fix and repair the tyre. You are
soon driving west again and arrive at the junction,
where you turn left (turn to 311).

279
You are hit in the side by a stray bullet as you run
across the open space. Roll 1 die and deduct the
number from your STAMINA. If you are still alive,
turn to 4o.

280
Much to your surprise and annoyance, the driver of
the armoured car somehow manages to control the
skid and drive through the oil slick. You decide
immediately to risk a handbrake turn and meet your
enemy head on (turn to 77).

281
With revolver in hand, you jump out of the Inter-
ceptor and climb warily up the railway embank-
ment. When you reach the top you look towards the
bridge and see your attacker grab a bag from out of a
caravan abandoned there. He jumps on a motor
bike and roars off east away from you. If you wish to
look inside the caravan, turn to 58. If you would
rather return quickly to the Interceptor to continue
the journey, turn to 150.

282-285

282
The motor bike swerves from side to side and is a
difficult target to hit.

MOTOR BIKE
and SIDECAR

If you win this highway battle, turn to 143.

FIREPOWERQ ARMOURS

283
One of the bikers walks over and pitks up your
revolverand keys. He then tells you to stand up and
turn around. He raises his hand and brings the butt
of the revolver down hard on the back of your head,
knocking you unconscious (turn to 100).

284
The three cars gradually close up on you, and the
one in the lead, a Toyota, begins firing the machine-
guns mounted in its headlight compartments.

FIREPOWER ARMOUR

TOYOTA 9 15
E-TYPE JAGUAR 10 12
COMMODORE 8 13

Fight each car one ata time. If you win this Vehicle
Combat, turn to 265.

285
You dive at the robed man and pull him to the
ground. Rolling over, you put out the lighted match
and prevent the incineration of your car. Add 1
LUCK point. Cursing you at the top of his voice, the

man runs off. You let him go: the protection of the
Interceptor against other possible maniacs is more
important. You waste no more time and drive off
south (turn to 254).

286

When you turn to walk towards the motel again,
you notice a dim light shining in one of the upstairs
windows: your gunfire has disturbed somebody.
You decide not to risk any further confrontation and
walk quickly back to the petrol tanker. You drive a
few miles further up the road before finding some-
where else suitable to park, and stay inside the cabin
to sleep (turn to 218).

287
The Ford driver is watching you carefully, and turns
his car towards the Interceptor as you try to over-
take. His front ram bars smash into the side of the
Interceptor, punching a hole in the door. Lose 2
ARMOUR points. You keep your foot pressed down
on the accelerator and just manage to squeeze in
front of the Ford (turn to 340).

288-289

288

The man looks at you long and hard before saying,
‘OK, I believe you, but tell me some more,’ You
explain that you are not the person who killed his
wife and son, and had only lied about being a road
warrior to keep the whereabouts of New Hope a
secret in case the man might lead a raid on it. The
man looks suddenly excited and says, ‘New Hope,
you say? That's where I'm headed Been cycling in
that direction ever since the ambush. Only stopped
here to get some cans of food from a supermarket
back there, when some crazy dogs attacked me.
Shot one of them and the others ran off. My name's
Johnson, and I'm sorry about threatening you like ]
did, but you can’t trust anybody these days.’ You
smile and shake hands, and he tells you that he isa
builder by trade, He asks how much further it is to
New Hope, and whether he is likely to be let in. You
reply that it is only another fifteen kilometres and
his chances are good—they need skilled people. You
also tell him about your mission and he warns you
not to stop at Joe’s Garage which is about eight
kilometres out of town. ‘They ain't got no petrol.
They just rob people who stop there.” You thank
Johnson for the advice, wish him luck and walk back
to the Interceptor. Its powerful engine roars into life
when you turn the ignition key, and you screech off
once again (turn to 34).

289
You fire rapidly at the advancing vehicle, but cannot
see anything except for the blinding lights. Your

290

bullets fail to hit their target, unlike the Animal’s
machine-gunner. You are an easy target and have
no defence against the deadly salvo. You have failed
in your mission,

2

The wheels spin in a acid of smoke as the rubber
grips the surface of the road. You control the skid
perfectly and are now accelerating towards the
oncoming armoured car, which starts to spit bullets
at you from its machine-gun.

ARMOURED CAR  FirEPOWERG

If you win, turn to 106.

ARMOUR 20

\
f

291-294

|

\ 291
The masked man reaches into the cabin of the bus
and brings out a mahogany box, Inside are two
magnificent pistols. He places one bullet in each
hand and says, ‘Choose your weapon.’ You pick up
one pistol and balance it in your hand to geta feel for
its weight. You both then stand back to back and the
man tells you to walk ten paces, turn, and fire when
ready. You breathe in deeply and count out Joud the
ten paces walked. You then turn and see the
masked man with his pistol pointed straight at you.
Both of you fire at once.

DUELLIST SKILL STAMINAG

Carry out one Attack Round using the Shooting
rules. If you survive the duel, turn to 208,

292
If you have a rocket left to fire, turn to 31. If you do
not have a rocket left in your armoury, turn to 173.

293
If you possess a pair of knuckle-dusters, turn to 56.
If you do not possess a pair of knuckle-dusters, turn
to 125,

294
Still racing, you see ahead of you the white house
where you must turn round. You jam on the brakes
and turn the steering-wheel sharply to the left. You
reverse for a few metres in a cloud of churned-up
dust, and then slam the gearstick forwards into first

———— EE

vr

Te +s. ee ee

to race back to the finishing-line. The Ford makes an
equally swift U-turn and is soon right behind you
again, It powers alongside you, and the driver pulls
down on his steering-wheel in order to sidesswipe
the Interceptor: He looks set to determine the out-
come of this duel by ramming.

YELLOW FORD

A successful ram will reduce a car's ARMOUR by 2
points. If you survive four Attack Rounds, turn to

334-

FIREPOWER 8 ARMOUR 16

295
The car slides to a halt in a cloud of dust. In your
rearview-mirror you watch the two, bikers run for
cover with the mine about to explode. Then it
blows, wrecking a wheel, but sounds no louder
than a dull thud to you sitting inside the car. Lose 2
ARMOUR points, No sooner has the dust settled than
the bikers start to open fire with their motor-cycle
machine-guns. You are a sitting target. Roll 1 die
and deduct the number from your ARMOUR score.
You decide you will have to leave the car to deal
with them. You pull the Interceptor’s own machine-
gun trigger and dive out under the cover of the burst
of fire. You scramble behind a nearby bush, revolver
drawn, wondering if you were seen. Test your Luck.

296-299

If you are Lucky, turn to 122. If you are Unlucky,
turn to 329.

296
The man takes hold of his gun and shoots you at
point-blank range. If you are wearing a bullet-proof
vest, turn to 174. If you are not wearing one, turn to
263.

297
You wake the next morning witha sore arm, but feel
somewhat better. Add 2 STAMINA points. If you
wish to search the café, turn to 26. If you would
rather drive off immediately, turn to 254.

298
You drive along the edge of the desert for about
eighty kilometres, until the road ends at a T-
junction. You decide to turn left and head south into
the desert towards San Anglo (turn to 271).

299
Despite the force of the blast, you only suffer a
minor flesh wound caused by flying shrapnel. Lose
2 STAMINA points. You rall along the ground, tak-
ing cover behind the Interceptor as your assailants
begin shooting. The only way to escape is to shoot it
out,

SKILL STAMINA
First BIKER 7 13
Second BIKER 8 14
300

During this Shooting Combat, both bikers will fire
separately at you during each Attack Round, but
you must choose which of the two you will fire at.
Against the other you will throw for your Attack
Strength in the normal way, but you will not wound
him if your Attack Strength is greater — you must
just count this as though his bullet missed you. If
you win, turn to 97, but reduce your SKILL per-
manently by 1 point if you are shot more than once
in the battle.

300
Following the instructions of the tattooed man, you
drive down the dirt road to the burnt-out house,
Four customized cars are parked in a row, each
sprouting a multitude of weapons. A group of peo-
ple stands in heated discussion, although they all
turn to watch you park. You walk over to the group
and ask them about the forthcoming race. A small
man, with a scar running the length of his face,
smiles and says, ‘Rookie, huh? Never been toa Blitz
Race before? Listen, it's quite simple. Challenge any
of us toa race. You have to bet 200 Creds, but if you
win, the prize is a big can of petrol! If you win, that
is.’ The man then bursts into laughter and the others
join in, If you wish to challenge him to a Blitz Race,
turn to 240. If you would rather just spectate, turn fo

224.

f 301-303

301
After thirty kilometres or so, the road suddenly
ends. Road-construction vehicles stand idle, left to
the ravages of the desert heat and wind; there is no
sign of life. The road you are driving along was
never finished before the catastrophe, Lose 1 Luck
point. To your left, the terrain is flat and stony. To
your right and straight ahead there is nothing but
sand. If you wish to head east across the stony
ground, turn to 251. If you would rather continue
south across the sand, turn to 237.

302
You open the door and climb out of the Interceptor.
As you walk up to the girl, a man with a shaved
head jumps out from behind one of the pumps
holding a crowbar and shouts, ‘Surprise! Let's have
your keys and Creds. No funny business unless you
want to get hurt.’ If you wish to give him your car
keys and Credits, turn to 209. If you would rather
fight him with your knife, turn to 48.

393

As the morning wears on, it becomes very hot and,
the further south you travel, you notice a change in
the vegetation. The overgrown fields turn into
scrubland, and it won't be long before you are
driving across the desert. A few miles further down
the road, you arrive at a major junction. If you wish
to turn left to head east, turn to 140. If you would
rather keep driving south, turn to 189.

304—306

As you slow down, a man suddenly appears from
out of the ditch by the side of the road. He looks set
to throw a bottle at the Interceptor and you can see
from the flame-lit rag that it is a petrol bomb,
Fortunately only one tyre is punctured and you are
able to accelerate and escape the bomber. Further
down the road, however, steering becomes difficult
and you are forced to stop to inspect the flat tyre.
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 238. If you
are Unlucky, turn to 370.

395
The helicopter plunges to the ground and bursts
into flame on impact. There is nothing you can do
but start up your engine and continue west (turn to
216).

~. 306 é

You place an empty petrol canister under the truck's
petrol tank and connect them with the plastic tub-
ing. You suck the tube to start the petrol flowing.
You siphon out all of the tank's petrol, nearly filling
your canister. Add 1 LUCK point. You place the fuel
inside the Interceptor and continue the drive south
(turn to 128),

397-310

3
You walk over to the bikers’ motor cycle and notice a
locked side-pannier. If you wish to open the pan-
nier, turn to 206, If you would rather change the
wheel on your Interceptor, without wasting any
more time, turn to 346,

308
Your shot is accurate and the wolf is dead before it
hits the ground, The remaining wolf is scared off by
the shot and disappears into the shadows (turn to
286).

309

You watch the bike speed away into the distance
until it disappears from view. After waiting fora few
minutes you set off east once again. You soon come
to a signpost which points down a narrow dirt track
towards a town called Rockville. If you wish to drive
south to Rockville, turn to 157. If you would rather
keep heading east, turn to 45-

310
You stop the car and pour the contents of the can
into the petrol tank. You know that you do not have

Kae Ts

= its HT

311-314

enough fuel to reach San Anglo and wonder where
you will find some more in this desert wilderness. It
isa depressing thought which weighs on your mind
as you set off again (turn to 115).

311
A few miles down the road you come to a small,
crudely constructed wooden bridge which crosses a
narrow river. There is a sign nailed to the bridge
warning you not to cross the river. If you intend to
drive across regardless, turn to 229. If you would
rather turn around and drive back to the last junc-
tion, turn to 124.

312
You press the button on the dashboard which re-
leases the canister. The iron spikes are spread all
over the road and you watch the armoured car drive
towards them in your mirror. Test your Luck. If you
are Lucky, turn to 181. If you are Unlucky, turn to

41.

313
You are able toinflate one of the tyres with the can of
Flat-U-Fix, but the other is damaged beyond repair.
If you possess a spare wheel, turn to 19. If you have
already used both spare wheels, turn to 336,

314
You screech to a halt and push the gearstick into

reverse, The rocks and boulders crash down on to
the road in front of you, but none lands on top of the

315-317

car, Add 1 LUCK point. Fortunately the landslide is
not heavy enough to block the road completely, and
you are soon able to drive on (turn to 351).
, 345

Somebody has fired a bazooka at you and it is a
direct hit. Roll two dice and deduct the total from
the Interceptor’s anmMouR, If you survive the blast,
turn fo §3-

316

In silence, the Doom Dogs carry the Animal over to
the station-wagon and place him in the back. By the
time the two vehicles are unlocked from each other,
the sun is rising above the eastern horizon. You are
bathed in warm red light and feel suddenly optimis-
tic about completing the mission. You drive off
south, leaving the Doom Dogs behind (turn to go).

317

You drive off the road on to the rocky scrubland and
are suddenly surprised by the sight of two vicious-
looking leather-clad bikers who jump out from be-
hind a bush. One fires a shot from his pistol to give
cover to the other who slams a limpet mine against
the rear wheel-arch of your Interceptor, Lose 1 Luck
point. They dive for cover before you even think
about firing your machine-gun. Your mind races in
panic as you decide what to do. Will you:

|

Yom 318-320
Keep on driving? Turn to 17
Stop the car and jump out? Turn to 212
Stop the car and stay inside? Turn to 295

318
You press the button on the dashboard which re-
leases the canister. You watch it bounce along the
road as the Ford speeds towards it. Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, turn to 63. If you are Unlucky, turn

ta 98.

319
Amber hands you some glucose tablets and energy
synthi-pills. Add 4 STAMINA points, Turn to 32.

320
The shell explodes harmlessly some twenty metres
behind you, but you know it will not be long before
they fire again, Whatis more, a bullet has punctured
one of your front tyres, which forces you to stop. If
you have a rocket left to fire, turn to 31. lf you donot
have a rocket left in your armoury, turn to 173.

fill se,

—_—

— 321-323

321

The first building you come to is an old roadside
café. There are cars on the forecourt, but none looks
as though they have been driven since the catas-
trophe. You drive around the back to hide the
Interceptor, After climbing out and looking around
to make sure that nobody else is staying here, you
decide where to sleep. If you wish to sleep in the bed
in the room above the café, turn to 55. [f you wish to
sleep in the wooden outhouse, turn to 332.

322

The E-type Jaguar races across the finishing-line
ahead of you and is greeted by six cheering people.
Leonardi swerves the E-type across the road to stop
you driving past, and signals for you to stop. If you
wish to obey him, turn to 378. [f you would rather
risk swerving around the E-type and trying to make
a getaway, turn to 162.

323

You brake to a halt and get out of the car to empty
the fuel canister into the petrol tank. The canister
does not hold much petrol and you realize that you
will have to be on the look-out for more if you hope
to reach San Anglo, By the time you set off again, it
is early evening and you watch the setting sun
through the right-hand window. Soon it will be
dark and there is a new decision to make. If you
wish to drive off the road to sleep the night inside
the Interceptor, turn to 276. If you would rather
drive through the night, turn to 42.

lt

—— =

324-326

Your rapid-firing machine-gun does not miss its
target and the bike runs off the road, crashing intoa
tree, But the rider does not die in vain—his crossbow
bolt pierces your front tyre, sending the tanker into
an uncontrollable spin. You wrestle with the steer-
ing-wheel, but cannot stop the tanker from jack-
knifing. The trailer swings round and suddenly the
whole tanker flips over on its side, screeching to a
sudden halt in a shower of sparks, Trapped inside
the cabin, you realize that you have failed in your
mission, and you will be lucky even to escape with
your life, as the other motor bike is drawing along-
side...

325

You throw your revolver into the sand beyond the
ambulance. A pair of leather boots comes into sight,
and you see a hand reach down and pick up the
revolver. You craw! out and stand up with your
arms raised, A scruffy man stands in front of you,
pointing his gun straight at you. A cigar hangs out
of the corner of his moustached mouth and he stares
at you coldly, the sun kept out of his eyes by a red
headband. He orders you to throw over the keys to
your Interceptor. If you wish to obey him, turn to
366, If you wish to reach for your knife to throw it at
him, turn to 82.

326
You run as fast as you can, glancing several times
over your shoulder to watch the vehicle circling the

327-328

hill, trying to pick up your tracks. You are still some
distance away from the Interceptor when your trail
is found and the vehicle turns to give chase, An
angry voice booms out over the desert through a
loudspeaker, shouting, ‘Stop! There is no escape
from the Animal.’ The message is repeated over and
over again, growing louder as the vehicle catches up
with you. There is no hope of reaching the Intercep-
tor and you yell at Amber to lie down and shoot at
the vehicle, aiming atits headlights. Roll two dice. If
the total is the same as or less than your SKILL, tum
to 113, If the total is greater than your SKILL, turn to
289.

327
You decide to wait until morning before driving any
further. You wake early, but the short rest has done
you some good. Add 1 STAMINA point. After revers-
ing the Interceptor out of the wreckage, you once
again drive off south down the road (turn to 254).

328
You release the canister and watch with satisfaction
as two of the cars collide. The remaining one, a
Toyota, continues the chase and opens fire with the
machine-guns mounted in its headlight compart-
ments.

TOYOTA FIREPOWERQ ARMOURIS

If you win this Vehicle Combat, turn to 265.

329-332

|

329
ae ——_-- One of the bikers saw you when you jumped for

cover, He calls out to you, saying, ‘Throw out your
gun and keys. We only want your car." If you wish
to obey him, turn to 283. If you would rather fight it
out, turn to 6.

wr
330
Z You turn the Interceptor around and drive back to
vst f the wooden gate where the guard stands, pointing
ay ° his machine-gun at you. ‘Changed your mind,
ai : huh?’ he sneers. You nod slowly, not wishing to
_ show youranger. He opens the gate, reminding you
a oe: | where to go (turn to 300)-
A fers Gh
< 331
: Amber suddenly lets out a warning cry and points
at a Jeep driving fast down the road towards
you. ‘Doom Dogs!’ she cries, ‘The same ones that
attacked me before.’ The Jeep has a twin-barrelled
machine-gun mounted in a turret at the back, andits
operator begins firing as soon as you are in range-
ape | JEEP FIREPOWERQG ARMOUR 14
P Sees If you win this Vehicle Combat, turn to 7,
aN The outhouse is dark and warm, You make yourself

a place to sleep between logs that were collected for
the café’s fireplace. As the light fades, you eat same
Guam of your rations and ponder the events of the day.
§ Ere ete veers ste poste Perhaps tomorrow you will reach San Anglo. When

Po rrt—‘“‘“‘i‘ia“ Cl

333-336

it is completely dark you settle down to sleep, Tes?
your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 26. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 8q.

° 333
Roll two dice. If the total is the same as or less than

your SKILL score, turn to 57. If the total is greater
than your SKILL score, turn to 86.

334

There is probably about a kilometre to go before you
cross the finishing-line, and you are still locked in
combat alongside the Ford. Up ahead the road
narrows to one lane to cross a stone bridge spanning
a stream. If you wish to keep your accelerator press-
ed to the floor, turn to 35. lf you would rather ease
off the accelerator and allow the Ford to take the
lead, turn to 239.

335
It is a dark night and you need to use your torch to

see where you are going. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 5. If you are Unlucky, turn to 365.

It is impossible to drive on the shredded tyre any
longer. You look around forlornly at the deserted
countryside and realize that nobody will come to

337-339

your aid. You will have to try your best to get back to
New Hope on foot. You have failed in your mission.

37
You are soon back at the junction at the foot of the
hills, but carry straight on to head west (turn to 211).

338

As you close in on the farmhouse you see another
blinding flash; the bazouka is being fired from a
top-floor window. You swerve violently to the left
to avoid the exploding shell. Test your Luck. If you
are Lucky, turn to 320. If you are Unlucky, turn to
105.

You crasv] to the gate unnoticed, and slip inside the
vehicle compound, Amber moves from vehicle to
vehicle, attaching small limpet mines to their en-
gine-blocks. When she has finished activating
them, she signals for you to leave. You crawl down
the side of the hill and stand up torun when you feel
you are out of sight. The explosions suddenly start,
and you count seven in all. ‘One of the mines must
have had a faulty fuse,’ Amber says breathlessly as
you run back towards the Interceptor, You hear an
engine start and look behind you to see two beams
of light moving away from the rising flames of the
burning wrecks. The Doom Dogs intend to hunt
down their attackers, If your current STAMINA is 10
or greater, turn to 107. If your current STAMINA is
less than 10, turn to 326,

gs

liam Ul teeamae
AEE Mee

2452557 tt

‘
t

349-344

340
You decide that it is time to use a weapon against the
chasing car, so you look at the buttons on the
dashboard, If you wish to empty a canister of iron
spikes on to the road, turn to 318. If you would
rather spray a film of oil over the road, turn to 213.

341

You pass an ambulance parked off the road to your
right, but see no sign of life. If you wish to stop ta
investigate the ambulance, turn to 267. If you would
rather keep driving east, turn to 22.

342
You do not manage to swerve away in time and
crash into the stone pillar. Roll one die and deduct
the number from your car's ARMOUR. If you survive
the crash, turn to 79.

You curse your luck, but there is nothing you can do
about the ruined tyre. It is impossible to drive on it
any further over the desert terrain and you realize
that you will have to abandon the Interceptor. With
luck you will make it back to New Hope, and try to
reach San Anglo again another time.

344
You drive back down the road, passing the ambu-

lance on your left and crossing the highway you
came off some time ago. The road is relatively free of
obstacles and you are able to travel along it quickly.

345-347

However, the easy drive is shortlived. The road
comes to a river, which it used to cross, but the
drawbridge, which spans the river, is partly open,
stopping you from driving across it. You reckon that
if you drive over it at about 130 kilometres per hour,
the momentum should carry the Interceptor across
the gap to the far side. You decide to give it a try
(turn to 270).

The crossbow bolt flies past your head, much to the
annoyance of the hijacker. You jump on top of the
trailer, and run forward to wrestle with the man
before he has time to reload his crossbow. Roll 1 die
and add the number to your current skiLL score.
Roll the die again and add the number to the hijack-
er’s SKILL of 7. If your total is the same as or greater
than that of the hijacker, turn to 74. If your total is
lower than that of the hijacker, turn to 226.

346
Fortunately the wheel-hub is not damaged and you
are able to fit the spare wheel quite quickly. You are
soon charging down the road, shaking your head at
the mad world you are forced to live in. You soon
arrive at another signpost which points down a
narrow dirt track towards a town called Rockville. If
you wish to drive south to Rockville, turn to 157. If
you would rather keep heading east, turn to 45.

347
The tattooed man is slow to realize your trick, and

takes the full force of your improvised karate kick in

348-350

the stomach. He crumples to the floor, giving you
time to run to the Interceptor. As you open the door,
the man recovers enough to fire a burst from his
machine-gun at you. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 204. If you are Unlucky, turn to 65,

348
You decide against driving any further during the
night, and settle down for a short nap before dawn
breaks. You instinctively wake as the first rays of
sunshine creep over the horizon. Add 1 STAMINA
point. You survey the damage to the Interceptor
and find that, apart from a slight steering problem,
it is sound enough to drive. You jump back inside
and set off south, thankful that there are no vehicle
road-worthiness inspectors around any more (turn
to 128).

349
You manage to knock the guard unconscious and
catch him as he falls, hoping that his friends do not
notice what is happening. You tie him up with his
own belt and leave him on the hillside. It won’t be
long before he is missed, so you scramble quickly up
the hill to the fence (turn to 198).

350
The shot misses and the dog closes in and leaps at
you. Quickly you draw your knife to defend your-
self.

WILD DOG SKILL 7
Use the Hand Fighting rules to resolve this combat

STAMINA 5

ee
ff

tat
<a
at

351

(to the death), Your knife and the dog’s bite both
reduce STAMINA by 2 points. If you win, turn to 89-

351

The road eventually leads out of the canyon, con-
tinuing straight on as far as the eye can see. You
check your compass and see that you are travelling
south once again. However, you have only driven
for a few kilometres, when you are forced to stop by
a blockade of two cars parked across the road. Two
armed men in leather uniforms approach you on
foot and tell you that the only way you will be
allowed to drive any further south is to win a speed
race along the straight road, against their ace driver.
If you lose the race, you will be forced to turn back.
Suddenly a car draws up alongside the Interceptor.
You recognize the classic car of last century im-
mediately; it is an E-type Jaguar. Sitting in the
driver's seat is a thin man with short black hair. He
looks very self-assured, and says, ‘Hi, my name's
Leonardi. I used to play ball for the Mets, but now |
race cars. Too bad you are driving that old trash can,
but good luck anyway.’ The two cars blocking the
road are moved aside and you see several more cars
beyond them lining the road. A man appears with a
flag ready to start the race. He lowers it sharply and
the race begins while you are still trying to grasp
what is happening. The E-type screeches away
slightly ahead of you. If you have had a superchar-
ger fitted to your engine, turn to 210. [f you have not
had one fitted, turn to 358.

352-354

352
The wheels spin in a cloud of smoke as the rubber

tries to grip the surface of the road. But you have
overdone it, and the car spins into a shallow ditch by
the side of the road. The armoured car closes in and
suddenly you see the flash of machine-gun fire
spitting from its turret.

ARMOURED CAR FIREPOWERQ ARMOUR20

During this Vehicle Combat reduce your FIRE-
POWER by 2 because of your car's immobility. If you
win, turn to 33.

353
The dirt track twists and turns through the open

countryside, but at last you come to a T-junction
where the dirt track is crossed by a good road. You
look down it both ways, but do not see any vehicles
or signs of life. If you wish to head east, turn to 61. If
you wish to head west, turn to 371.

The Interceptor swerves to the left, but you steer
into the skid and keep the car under control. You
have to think quickly to decide what tactics to use.
Will you accelerate away (turn to 183), or brake hard
to let the Ford pass you (turn to 27)?

355-357

355
The Doom Dogs suddenly stop their cheering when

the Animal fails to get up from the sand. They look
at one another, obviously deciding whether or not
to let you go, despite their promise. Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, turn to 316. If you are Unlucky, turn
to 184.

3

Lying perfectly still under the ambulance, you hear
the sound of footsteps approaching. The pain in
your side is severe, making you grip your revolver
tightly. Suddenly a man’s voice shouts, “Hey, stu-
pid, think I can’t follow a trail of blood? Throw your
gun out and ease yourself out from under that
ambulance with your hands up.’ lf you wish to obey
him, turn to 325. If you wish to rol] out from under
the ambulance firing your gun, turn to 12.

357
Stranded in a desert wilderness, hundreds of

kilometres from medical aid, there is nothing you
can do to stop the deadly poison spreading through
your body. You soon begin to feel very weak, un-
able even to summon enough strength to drive. Itis
not long before the poison runs its fatal course. Your
adventure ends here,

358-360

358
Roll one die alternately, for the E-type and then for
the Interceptor. Continue rolling until one car
reaches a total of 24 to cross the finishing-line first. If
you win, turn to 54. If you lose the race, turn to 322.

359
Inside the boot of an old Ford you find something
which makes you whoop for joy — a full canister of
petrol. Add 1 Luck point, Carrying the crowbar and
fuel canister, you leap across the roofs of the cars to
hurry back to the Interceptor. Luckily itis still where
you left it and you are soon on the road again,
heading south (turn to 149).

360
Amber swings and misses again, but you are able to
free your arms while you roll over in the sand. The
Animal continues to squeeze as you try to grab him
around the throat. Lose 2 STAMINA points, With his
head held in position, Amber does not miss with the
spanner this time (turn to 376).

You press the release button which empties the
canister of oil in a thick spray over the road. The
motor-cycle combination runs over the oil at high
speed and skids off the road. It rolls overin the sand
and disappears from view, as you drive away (turn
to 96).

362
The country road runs straight ahead far into the
distance and you are able to make good headway, as
itis relatively free from abandoned cars. But after an
hour's driving at high speed, the road finally ends at
a T-junction. If you wish to turn left, turn to 92. If
you wish to turn night, turn to 153.

363
The man reacts too slowly to dodge the blow and
crumples to the floor unconscious. You run as fast
as you can to the Interceptor to escape before his
friends realize what has happened. Much to your
relief, the Interceptor starts first time, and you
screech away down the rough road to the main road
where you turn right at speed to head south (turn to

207).

364-367

3

A few kilometres further down the road, the engine
starts to cough and splutter. Finally it jerks toa halt
and your worst fears are realized ~ you have run out
of petrol. There are no buildings and no signs of life,
and you realize that the mission is over, You have
failed, and must try to get back to New Hope on
foot, perhaps to try to reach San Anglo another
time.

365

As you walk across the courtyard towards the
motel, you suddenly hear a howling cry behind
you. You spin round and see two pairs of eyes
caught in the beam of your torch. You see that they
belong to two wolves, who leap forward to attack,
You quickly draw your gun and aim at the leading
wolf. Roll two dice. If the total is the same as or less
than your SKILL, turn to 308. If the total is greater
than your SKILL, turn to 120.

366
The man orders you to turn around and then hits
you over the back of the head with the butt of his
gun. You drop unconscious to the floor, and when
you awake you find that the man — and your Inter-
ceptor —are gone. You have failed in your mission.

367
The man suddenly sees you and calls to his friends,
‘Hey, everybody, guess what? We've got visitors."
Pointing his rifle at you, he orders you to stand up

and put your hands in the air, Within seconds you
are surrounded by ten Doom Dogs. Your fate rests
with this gang of desert outlaws; your mission will
never be completed.

368
As you pull the dagger from your side, your attacker
draws a small revolver from his concealed shoulder-
holster. You will have to fight this out.

BANDIT SKILL?

Resolve this combat using the Shaoting rules, but
add 1 point to your own SKIL for the duration of the
battle because of your cover behind the car door. If
you win, turn to 64, but reduce your SKILL per-
manently by 1 point if you are shot more than once.

369

The masked man takes the 200 Credits from you and
then reverses the bus to let you enter the tunnel.
You soon pass through it and find yourself driving
along a twisting road which cuts through the bot-
tom of a deep canyon (turn to 130).

STAMINA TI

379-373

3790
The tyre is damaged beyond repair. If you possess a
spare wheel, turn to 19. If you have already used
both spare wheels, turn to 336.

372
You drive a long way west, passing only one junc-
tion on your right—a narrow road leading north, At
last you come toa T-junction where you can turn left
in order to drive south towards San Anglo (turn to

225).

372

Reaching forward, you press the rocket-launcher
button on the control panel. The Interceptor shakes
as the racket is fired, and the explosion which
follows immediately is loud and blinding. When the
smoke clears, you see that the road-block no longer
exists. Suddenly you hear the roar of a motor-cycle
engine starting up and see two leather-clad, armed
riders appear from behind a bush and blaze up the
road through the hole in the road-block. The pas-
senger turns and fires a warning shot at you as the
bike races away. If you wish to drive after them,
turn to 95. If you would rather let them get away,
turn to 309.

373
The motor bike and sidecar run straight over the

iron spikes, shredding two of their tyres. The vehi-
cle swerves off the road and rolls over in the sand. In
a matter of seconds they are out of sight (turn to g6).

374-376

374
You draw your i and ready yourself as the dog
leaps at you.

WILD DOG SKILL 7 STAMINA 5
Use the Hand Fighting rules to resolve this combat
(to the death). Your knife and the dog’s bite both

reduce STAMINA by 2 points. If you win, turn to 89.

375
You decide to take the outlaw’s Magnum as it is a
deadlier weapon than your own revolver. Add 1
SKILL point for all future Shooting Combats. You
turn the ignition key and the engine roars into life.
Soon you are travelling south again at high speed
(turn to 303),

376

The Animal is knocked unconscious, but you take
no chances and tie his hands. By the time you
manage to free the Interceptor from the station-
wagon, the sun is rising above the eastern horizon.
You are bathed in warm red light and feel suddenly
optimistic about completing the mission, You drive
off south, leaving the cursing Animal to be found by
the rest of his gang (turn to go).

——— -———————

a

377-379

You swerve the car from side to side to make it
difficult to aim at, and at the same time return fire
with your machine-gun. Roll two dice. If the total is
the same as or less than your SKILL, turn to 338. If
the total is greater than your SKILL, turn to 191,

3

Leonardi climbs out of the E-type, walks over to the
Interceptor and says, "You're good, but you're just
not good enough. You'd better turn around now
and head back towards the canyon.’ You do as he
says and are soon back on the twisting road through
the canyon. You pass the landslide and enter the
tunnel. Much to your surprise you see daylight at
the end and drive through it unhindered. A mile
further on down the road you see the bus that was
blocking the tunnel before. You overtake it without
incident and drive on until you reach the T-junction.
You turn left to head south along the straight desert
road (turn to 301),

When you are only a few metres from the bridge,
the Ford driver's courage deserts him and he brakes
hard, allowing you to cross ahead of him. Frustrated
by your iron nerve, your opponent desperately tries
to pass you before you cross the finishing-line. The
acceleration of the Ford is blistering because of its
supercharger, and the cars are soon locked bumper
to bumper, You see the finishing-line ahead, no
more than two hundred metres away, and realize

re I rer

ae

380

that the Ford will pull out of your slipstream any
second now to pass you. You must block the Ford.
Will you eae to the left (turn to 20) or to the right
{turn to 80)?

380

You drive on towards New Hope, and are relieved
to see the town gates open. Hundreds of citizens
turn out to greet you, and you are given a hero’s
reception. The petrol will be put to good use to help
build for the future. Civilization, albeit in a small
way, is on the road to recovery, [f you also managed
to rescue Sinclair during your adventure, consider
your mission a triumph.

380

that the Ford will pull out of your slipstream any
second now to pass you, You must block the Ford,

Will you swerve to the left (Lurn to 20) orto the right
(turn to 80)?

380
You drive on towards New Hope, and are relieved.
to see the town gates open. Hundreds of citizens
tum out to greet you, and you are given a hero's
reception. The petrol will be put to good use to help
build for the future. Civilization, albeit in a small
way, ison the road to recovery. IFyou also managed
to rescue Sinclair during your adventure, consider
your mission a triumph.

