FIGHTING FANTAS\

Over 12 million copies sold

The dark, twisted power of
Malbordus is reaching i its 2

All Malbordus needs now is to retrial
dragon artefacts which have heen: hi
centuries in the lost city of Vatos. Eachd
passes brings him closer to them and only’
can stop him! YOUR mission is to reach’ i
first and destroy the treasures Malbor
secks. But beware! Each step you take leads youl
closer to your doom - .

Two dice, sieneil addan couerae ol Wists

for this adventure. YOU decide which route

to tollow, which dangers to risk and which
monsters to fight.

Cover iliertratin by Christos Achillews

ATINYVI

Z
‘>
WS
ca
'@
~
a
oe
—
f
ol
=
—
——
>
=e
oe
‘>
oe
st
=

=

LIVINGSTONE

i
|

PUFFIN BOOKS.
TEMPLE OF TERROR

“The dark twisted power ofthe young Malbordus reaching its
zenith, Thu elves who ralsed tn have set hin one ial as 19
‘etree theive Dragon artefacts hidden forcenturiesn thelost
‘ty oF Vatos, somevsherein the Desert of Skulls. Only when he
Js these in his grasp will he beable fo rise up and engulf
‘Allasia. Each day that passes brings him closer to them and
only YOU can stop him!

‘YOUR mission Isto cross the searing desert sands, find the
nysteriows los city and destroy the treasures Malboedus seeks
‘before he can reach them, Btewarc! Each sep you ake leads
You closer a your doom

lan Livingstone, cofounder of the highly succesful Games
Workshop and editor of Wite Duar, has eeated a thrling
adventure of sword and sorcery, complete with an elaborate
fombot system and an adventure sheet lo ecard your gaineand
losses, Allyou neds two dice, a pencil and an eraser

Macy dangers lie ahead and your succes is by no means
fs upto YOU to decide which route to fll, which
= torisk and which adversaries to Baht!

Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks

) THE WARLOCK OF RRETO" 25. BENEATH NIGHTMARE CASTLE ~ ve P
MOUNTAIN 26, CRYIT OF THE SORCERER lan Livingstone’s

> 7° COTADEL OF CHAOS 27. STAR STRIDER

3 THE FOREST OF DOOM ZA. PHANTOMS OF FAR

4 STARSOOr TRAVELLER 2 MIDNIGHT ROCUE

B CITY CS THIEVES SL CHASSG OF MALICE

s DEATHTRAP OUINGEDN SL. BATTLEBLADE WARRIOR

> LAND OF THE LIZARD KING X2 SLAVES OF THE ABYSS

= SCORPION SWAMI SKY LORD

AVERENS OF THE SNOW WITCH 34 STEALER OF SOULS

SOLSE OF HELL ™. DAGGERS OF DARKNESS
TALSMAN OF DEATH * ARMIES OF DEATH

2 SPACE ASSASSIN 37, PORTAL OW EVIL
MIIWAY FIGHTER 38. VAULT OF THE VAMPERE

PLE OF TERROR W. FANGS OF FURY

t= THE FONGS OF KETHER 1. DEAD OF NIGHT

. MASTER OP CHADS

7 APPOINTMENT WITTE EAR 12, LACK VEIN PROPHECY

} SEREL PLANET 43. THE KEEP OF THE LICH-LORD
= DEMONS OF THE Deer +, LEGEND OF THE SHADOW

22 SHOED OF THE SAMURA! WARRIORS

De TeLAL CE CHAMPIONS 45. S’DCTUAL STALKERS

=> oe COMMANTO +. TOWER OF DESTRUCTION

> SAS CE SLO00 4

~

Lo

7 Wieck OF MLAvYEw 57. THE CRIMSON TIDE
“4 S475 CEMA

TSE SasTANT ors 1 THE SEVEN SERPENTS
= CARE - CTYPORT OF TRATS 4. THE CROWN OF KINGS

a SANTASY — The Intraturcteey Role Poy ng ire

7h STODUING REAVER « Four thllire alvercerncs

SOLLTOOTH WARS - A Foghag larteay Novel

DEMONSTEALER - A Fighting Fantasy Novel Illustrated by Bill Houston
The Adverced Fighting Fantasy Syslerm
7 OF THE ITT: Fighting Fentesy Morsters P
uffin B
TITAN: The Fighaiite Fiactesy Woekd ooks
DUNGEONEER - An Inimderction tp che World of Role-i"lap ing Gomes
SLAGRSAND® Acdvanosd Fighting Faatasy
mail ora a Hoc 5
Aira ene

tg

et

votcendtn tutto my tee ere let
fotos dhe nent pune

To
Chris Ackilleos and Iain McCaig
for making fantasy a reality
CONTENTS

FIGHTING MONSTERS
9
EQUIPMENT
”

HINTS ON PLAY
8

ADVENTURE SHEET

BACKGROUND
‘TEMPLE OF TERROR
7
FIGHTING MONSTERS

Before embarking on your adventure, you must first
determine your own strengths and weaknesses.
You have in your possession a sword and a shield
together with a rucksack containing Provisions
(food and drink) for the trip.

You must use dice to determine your initial SKILL
and STAMINA scores. On pages 20-21 there is an
Adventtire Sheet which you may use to record the
details of an adventure, On it you will find boxes for
recording your SKILL and STAMINA scores.

You are advised either to record your scores on the
Adventure Sheet in pencil, or make photocopies of
the page to use in future adventures.

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter this
total in the skit box on the Adventure Sheet.

Roll both dice. Add 12 to the number rolled and
enter this total in the sTAMINA box,

There is also a LucK box. Roll one die, add 6 to this
number and enter this total in the LUCK box.

For reasons that will be explained below, SKILL,
STAMINA and LUCK scores change constantly dur-
ing an adventure. You must keep an accurate record
of these scores and for this reason you are advised
either to write small in the boxes or to keep an eraser
handy. But never rub out your Initial scores.
Although you may be awarded additional sKILL,
STAMINA and LUCK points, these totals may never
exceed your Inifial scores, except on very rare occa-
sions, when you will be instructed on a particular
page.

Your SKILL score reflects your swordsmanship and
general fighting expertise; the higher the better.
Your STAMINA score reflects your general constitu-
tion, your will to survive, your determination and
overall fitness; the higher your STAMINA score, the
longer you will be able to survive. Your LUCK score
indicates how naturally lucky a person you are.
Luck - and magic — are facts of life in the fantasy
kingdom you are about to explore.

10

Battles

You will often come across pages in the book which
instruct you to fight a creature of some sort. An
option to flee may be given, but if not — or if you
choose to attack the creature anyway — you must
resolve the battle as described below,

First record the creature’s SKILL and STAMINA
scores in the first vacant Monster Encounter Box on
your Adventure Sheet. The scores for each creature
are given in the book each time you have an encoun-
ter,

The sequence of combat is then:

1. Roll the two dice once for the creature. Add its
SKILL score. This total is the creature’s Attack
Strength.

2, Roll the two dice once for yourself. Add the
number rolled to your current SKILL score. This
total is your Attack Strength.

3. If your Attack Strength is higher than that of the
creature, you have wounded it. Proceed to step
4. If the creature's Attack Strength is higher than
yours, it has wounded you. Proceed to step 5s. If
both Attack Strength totals are the same, you have
avoided each other's blows - start the next Attack
Round from step 1 above.

4. You have wounded the creature, so subtract 2
points from its STAMINA score, You may use
your LuCcK here to do additional damage (see
over).

11

5. The creature has wounded you, so subtract 2
points from your own STAMINA score. Again you
may use LUCK at this stage (see over).

6. Make the appropriate adjustments to either the
creature’s or your OWN STAMINA scores (and
your LUCK score if you used LUCK — see over),

7. Begin the next Attack Round (repeat steps 1-6).
This sequence continues until the STAMINA score
of either you or the creature you are fighting has
been reduced to zero (death).

Fighting More Than One Creature

If you come across more than one creature in a
particular encounter, the instructions on that page
will tell you how to handle the battle. Sometimes
you will treat them as a single monster; sometimes
you will fight each one in turn.

12

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either in
battles or when you come across situations in which
you could either be lucky or unlucky (details of
these are given on the pages themselves), you may
call on your luck to make the outcome more favour-
able. But beware! Using luck is a risky business and
if you are unlucky, the results could be disastrous.

The procedure for using your luck is as follows: roll
two dice. If the number rolled is equal to or less than
your current LUCK score, you have been lucky and
the result will go in your favour, If the number
rolled is higher than your current LUCK score, you
have been unlucky and you will be penalized.

This procedure is known as Testing your Luck. Each
time you ‘Test your Luck’, you must subtract one
point from your current LUCK score. Thus you will
soon realize that the more you rely on your luck, the
more risky this will become.

Using Luck tn Battles

On certain pages of the book you will be told to Test
your Luck and will be told the consequences of your
being lucky or unlucky. However, in battles, you
always have the option of using your luck either to
inflict a more serious wound ona creature you have
just wounded, or to minimize the effects of a wound
the creature has just inflicted on you.

13

If you have just wounded the creature, you may Test
your Luck as described above. If you are /ucky, you
have inflicted a severe wound and may subtract an
extra 2 points from the creature’s STAMINA score.
However, if you are unlucky, the wound was a mere
graze and you must restore 1 point to the creature’s
STAMINA (i.e. instead of scoring the normal 2 points
of damage, you have now scored only 1).

If the creature has just wounded you, you may Test
your Luck to try to minimize the wound. If you are
lucky, you have managed to avoid the full damage of
the blow. Restore 1 point of stamina (i.e. instead of
doing 2 points of damage it has done only 1). If you
are unlucky, you have taken a more serious blow.
Subtract 1 extra STAMINA point.

Remember that you must subtract 1 point from your
own LUCK score each time you Test your Luck.

isp bs G-_> ery

Restoring Skill, Stamina and Luck
Skill

Your SKILL score will not change much during your
adventure. Occasionally, a page may give instruc-
tions to increase or decrease your SKILL score, A
Magic Weapon may increase your SKILL, but re-
member that only one weapon can be used ata time!
You cannot claim 2 skit bonuses for carrying two
Magic Swords. Your SKILL score can never exceed
its Initial value unless specifically instructed.

Stamina and Provisions

Your STAMINA score will change a lot during your
adventure as you fight monsters and undertake
arduous tasks. As you near your goal, your STAMI-
NA level may be dangerously low and battles may be
particularly risky, so be careful!

Your backpack contains enough Provisions for ten
meals. You may rest and eat at any time except
when fighting, but you may eat only one meal at a
time. Eating a meal restores 4 STAMINA points.
When you eat a meal, add 4 points to your STAMINA
score and deduct 1 point from your Provisions. A
separate Provisions Remaining box is provided on
the Adventure Sheet for recording details of Provi-
sions. Remember that you have a long way to go, so
use your Provisions wisely! Remember also that
your STAMINA score may never exceed its Initial
value unless specifically instructed on a page.

15
Luck

Additions to your LUCK score are awarded through
the adventure when you have been particularly
lucky, Details are given on the pages of the book,
Remember that, as with SKILL and STAMINA, your
LUCK score may never exceed its Initia! value.

16

EQUIPMENT

You will start your adventure with a bare minimum
of equipment, but you may find other items during
your travels. You are armed with a sword and are
dressed in leather armour. You have a rucksack
(haversack, backpack) on your back to hold your
Provisions and any treasures you may come across.
You also carry a lantern which lights your way.

47
HINTS ON PLAY

Your journey will be perilous and you are likely to
fail on your first attempt. Make notes and draw a
map as you explore — this map will be invaluable in
future adventures and enable you to progress rapid-
ly through to unexplored sections.

Not all areas contain treasure; many merely contain
traps and creatures which you will no doubt fall foul
of. You may make wrong turnings during your
quest and while you may indeed progress through
to your ultimate destination, it is by no means
certain that you will find what you are searching for.

18

it will be realized that entries make no sense if read
in numerical order. It is essential that you read only
the entries you are instructed to read. Reading other
entries will only cause confusion and may lessen the
excitement during play,

The one true way involves a minimum of risk and
any player, no matter how weak on initial dice rolls,
should be able to get through fairly easily,

May the luck of the gods go with you on the adven-
ture ahead!

19

e—

VENTURE SHEET MONSTER ENCOUNTER BOXES

STAMINA LUCK Sti//= Skill= Skhll=
Initial Initial Initial Stemina= Stamina= Stamina=
Skill Stamina= Luck=
ITEMS OF GOLD | Sail/= Skill= ) Skill=
EQUIPMENT Staming= Stamina= Stamtina=
CARRIED | Samina= amina= anna
SPELLS a
| Suill= Skill= Skill=
, Stamina= Stamina= Stamina=
|
—__ Jn Siill= Skill= Skill =
Stamina = Stamina= Stantinae
PROVISIONS

BACKGROUND

Perhaps it was because he was born during a full
moon, with wolves howling around his mother’s
forest hut, that Malbordus‘’s nature was evil.
Perhaps it was something more sinister than that.
But it is certain that, after his mother abandoned
him, Malbordus grew up in Darkwood Forest in the
care of Darkside Elves. He was taught the Elves’
wicked ways, and also discovered powers of his
own. He could make plants wither and die simply
by snapping his fingers; he could make animals
obey him with his piercing gaze. The Elves urged
him on and helped him develop his powers, so that
they could teach him the arcane and evil magic of
the ancient Elf Lords — magic so vile and powerful
that it kills unworthy users. In pursuit of such evil
powers, Malbordus grew into manhood. In order to
prove to the Elves that he was ready to receive the
Elf Lords’ knowledge, he first had to pass a test. He
was Ordered to journey south to the Desert of Skulls
to find the lost city of Vatos, In the city were hidden
five Dragon artefacts which he would have to find
and collect. A simple incantation would bring the
Dragons to life to serve the forces of evil. Malbordus
would then instruct them to fly him back to Dark-
wood Forest, where a massive army would be
assembling. He would receive the ancient powers

22

and lead the hordes of chaos across Allansia in an
unstoppable wave of death and destruction.

It was only by a stroke of luck that these terrible
plans were discovered. On the edge of Darkwood
Forest lived a strange old Wizard named Yaztromo.
Something of an eccentric, he lived alone in his
tower, practising simple magic and communicating
with animals and birds. He was always willing to
sell small magic items, so that he could afford to
have brought to him delicious cakes from all over
Allansia, His sweet tooth was the cause of his only
link with the outside world, as he rarely left his
tower. It was therefore much to everyone's surprise
that he came huffing and puffing into the village of
Stonebridge. What could possibly have forced old
Yaztromo to venture through Darkwood Forest
to Stonebridge? All the Dwarfs who lived there
were eager to find out, and a message was sent to
Gillibran, their king.

After the rigours of a recent quest, you are resting in
Stonebridge, enjoying the merry company of the
Dwarfs. Your wounds are almost healed and the
local blacksmith has honed the blade of your sword
as only Dwarfs can. Resting on a porch with your
feet up on the railing, you are intrigued by the
commotion in front of you in the village square.
Followed by a throng of inquisitive Dwarfs, Yaztro-
mo climbs the stone steps of Gillibran’s house and is
warmly greeted at the top by the king. The crowd
falls silent when Gillibran raises his hand, and
Yaztromo turns to speak. You slide out of your chair

23

—— a, se

and join the crowd to hear what the Wizard has to
say. With a glum expression, his face almost as long
as his beard, Yaztromo relates the bad news con-
cerning Malbordus. The Dwarfs look up appre-
hensively as though expecting the five Dragons
to descend upon them at any moment. He calls on
them to show courage, saying, ‘Friends, look on
the bright side, At least we are wamed of our
impending doom, thanks to my pet crow who over-
heard the conversation between the Dark Elves and
Malbordus. What’ we must do now is find some-
body who can reach the lost city before Malbordus
and destroy the Dragon artefacts. We need a fear-
less young warrior who is willing to risk life and
limb to save us all. Is there one among you who
would volunteer?’

Each Dwarf looks around to see if another has dared
to accept the challenge, Standing there watching the
worried Dwarfs, you realize that there is only one
thing you can do, With a wry smile on your face,
you raise your arm in the air and offer your services.
Yaztromo sees you and says, ‘Haven't I seen you
somewhere before? Never mind, you look like the
kind of person we want. Make way for our brave

24

volunteer. We must leave for my tower immedi-
ately. Come along, let’s be off. You have a lot to
learn, but I cannot teach you much until we are
safely through Darkwood Forest and inside my
laboratory.’

You hardly have time to cram your belongings into
your backpack before the impatient Wizard leads
you out of Stonebridge towards his tower on the

southern edge of Darkwood Forest.

Now TURN OVER

25

oe

1

For an old man, Yaztromo is surprisingly sprightly.
You cross Red River and the ploughed fields
beyond, and soon reach the edge of the forest.
Yaztromo still doesn’t stop, He takes a narrow path
leading into the dark wall of trees. The light fades;
branches and knotted roots obstruct the twist-
ing path and make the walk very tiring. You ask
Yaztromo why he seems unconcerned at the possi-
bility of being attacked by forest monsters. He
chuckles and tells you that his magic is well known
and respected by all the creatures for miles around —
none would dare challenge Yaztromo! After spend-
ing a peaceful night in the forest, you reach Yaz-
tromo’s tower by mid-morning the next day. You
follow him up the spiral staircase to a large room at
the top of the tower, Shelves, cupboards and
cabinets line the walls and are filled with bottles,
jars, books, boxes and all manner of strange arte-
facts, Yaztromo slumps down into his old oak chair,
by now looking quite tired from the long journey.
He reaches into his pocket and pulls out a fragile
pair of gold-rimmed spectacles. After placing them
on his nose, he peers at you over the top of them,
and you feel quite unnerved by his piercing gaze.
Finally he says, ‘Anybody who would hope to de-
feat Malbordus must certainly know a little magic.
You look bright enough to learn some, but I don’t
think you have time to absorb the ten spells I would
like to teach you. By the way, I would like you to
know how privileged you are to learn my magic. But
a crisis is a crisis. Now, let’s get on with it. Which

2-4

spells shall I teach you? You have the choice of Open
Door, Creature Sleep, Magic Arrow, Language,
Read Symbols, Light, Fire, Jump, Detect Trap and
Create Water.’ To make your choice, turn to 34.

2
The room is small and sparsely furnished, with just
a table and chair. A chisel and mallet are lying on the
chair, and the floor is covered with wood-shavings.
On the wall to your left is a large wooden carving,
two metres by three metres in size. It depicts a scene
of the lost city being attacked by Giant Sandworms.
If you wish to take a closer look at the wood-carving,
turn to 302. If you would rather walk through the
door in the wall opposite, turn to 93.

The door opens into another corridor, which is well
lit and appears to be in regular use. If you wish to go
left, turn to 320. If you wish to go right, turn to 358.

4
The cool water quenches your thirst, You im-
mediately feel invigorated, as the water contains
rare strength-building chemicals. Add 4 STAMINA
points. With water still running down your chin,
you continue your search. Turn to 370.

es es :

5-8

5
You take one of the knives and place it in your
backpack. Continuing down the corridor, you soon
come to a dead end, and have no choice but to
retrace your steps and walk under the golden rain.
Turn to 354.

6
It is impossible to avoid stepping on some of the
hundreds of cowrie shells, As you do so, all the
shells suddenly cluster together and form them-
selves into an almost humanoid shape, which starts
to attack you. You feel as though you are being
stoned to death, Will you:

Try to defend yourself with

your sword? Turn to 245
Run away? Turn to 359
Jump in the sea? Turn to 51

7
On seeing you, the Lizard Man hisses loudly and
advances towards you with his sword held high.

LIZARD MAN SKILL 9
If you win, turn to 33.

STAMINA S

8
You fall down, but land on the ledge overhanging
the water. Lose 2 STAMINA points. You regain con-
sciousness some time later and escape down the
tunnel as quickly as possible. Turn to 91.

rr

g-it

You raise the war-hammer into the air and bring it
crashing down on top of the Dragon. It rebounds off
it, leaving the artefact completely unmarked. You
have chosen the wrong Dragon to destroy, You feel
suddenly very weak as an unseen evil force tries
to protect the artefact. Lose 1 SKILL point and 2
STAMINA points. Which Dragon will you now
attempt to destroy?

The Bone Dragon? Turn to 362
The Silver Dragon? Turn to 231
The Gold Dragon? Turn to 247
The Ebony Dragon? Turn to 279

in the shimmering haze of the desert heat, you
suddenly see a shape moving towards you. As it
grows nearer, you see that it is somebody riding a
camel, If you wish to speak to the desert rider, tum
to 99. If you would rather lie low and wait until the
nder has passed by, turn to 257.

11

If you are wearing a gold medallion with a heart
engraved on it, turn to 258. If you are not wearing
the medallion, Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn
to 284. If you are Unlucky, turn to 72.

12-14

12

Yaztromo explains that his Open Door spell will
open any locked door. He tells you the incantation
necessary to cast the spel] and says that it will not
drain your energy too much; only 2 STAMINA points
will be lost each time you use it. Return to 34, after
writing down the spell and its STAMINA cost on
your Adventure Sheet.

13
Another tentacle wraps itself around your other leg,
and you gasp for air as you thrash around in the
water trying to stab your unseen adversary.

TENTACLED THING _ skILL&

You will drown if you do not slay the water monster
in less Attack Rounds than the number of your
current SKILL. If you win, turn fo 165.

STAMINATIO

14
Inside the pot you find a copper ring which has a
lightning bolt engraved on it. Will you:

Place the ring on your finger? Turn to 277
Lift the lid of the black pot? Turn to 156
Lift the lid of the red pot? Turn to 183
Walk through the chamber to the

archway in the far wall? Turn to 20

i eeeeeeerrCtéi‘iSNSSCsSCSC

15417

a5
The night passes without incident; you wake at
dawn feeling refreshed. Add 2 sTAMINA points.
You sling your backpack on to your shoulders and
set off again (turn to 305).

16
The crossbow bolt thuds into your shoulder, mak-
ing you cry out in pain. Lose 3 STAMINA points. If
you are still alive, turn to 158.

17
The corridor ends at a doorway which is made of
iron, You turn the handle and enter an empty room
which has two doors leading from it — one to your
left and one to your right. If you wish to open the
door to your left, turn to 298. If you wish to open the
door to your right, turn to 216.

18-20

18

You chip off one of the Sandworm’s teeth, which
may be useful as a weapon. You tuck it into your belt
and continue south. You walk steadily on until the
sun sinks below the western horizon. Under the
cloudless sky, the desert quickly becomes very cold.
If you are able to cast a Fire spell, turn to 177. If you
have not learnt this spell, turn to 395.

19
You choose at random a tapestry with the pattern
of a burning phoenix rising from the ashes. You
quickly place it in your backpack and hurry down
the corridor. Turn to 263.

20
Beyond the archway, the corridor is well lit and in
good order. There is no sand or dirt on the floor, and
the statues and carvings on the walls show no signs
of deterioration. The corridor soon ends at a door
which, you discover, is open, You enter an empty
room with one other door in the far wall and a
trapdoor in the floor. If you wish to open the door,
turn to 307, If you wish to open the trapdoor, turn to

397:

21-23

21

The door opens into a corridor at a T-junction. One
@essegeway mins to the left and right of the door,
amd another begins immediately in front of you.
Wee see nothing of interest either to your left or
waht, and you decide to walk directly ahead. Turn

Ts.

22
Yeu point the mirror at the Night Horror, but it
S2=ply smashes it into fragments with another bolt
tom its rod. You have no choice but to attack with
gear sword. Turn to 85,

23

You watch the crow fly back towards Yaztromo’s
tower before stepping on to the rope-bridge. The
ew of the barge are not concerned by your sudden
@>pearance and continue with their various tasks,
Aer crossing the bridge, you continue south across
the scrubland, After an hour or so, you see smoke
msing in the east. If you wish to investigate the
source of the smoke, turn to 316. If you would rather
eentinue south, turn to 159.

24-27

24
You walk by the dry, white skeleton of some un-
known large creature and notice the corner of a
wooden box jutting out of the sand inside the rib-
cage of the dead beast. If you wish to dig the box out
of the sand and open it up, turn to 283. If you would
rather keep on walking, turn to 70.

25
With much effort, you eventually haul yourself out
of the pit. You go over to the other archway and
walk under it. Turn to 315.

26
As the day draws on, your thirst becomes almost
unbearable. If you possess a water canister, turn to
217. If you wish to and are able to cast a Create
Water spell, turn to 372. If you have no means of
drinking, turn to 84.

27

' You hold the mirror in front of you, but the Wind
Elemental blows it out of your hand, and you watch
it shatter on the floor. Again you are thrown against
the wall. Lose 2 stamina points. Will you try:

A Phoenix Tapestry? Turn to 229
An Ebony Facemask? Turn to 241
Neither of these? Turn to 312

WE ei,
.

NS kt we
s*

28—30

28
Thrusting your sword into the air, you try to cut
down the giant insect, while it attempts to stab you
with its long sting, Fight the Needle Flies one at a
time.

SKILL STAMINA
First NEEDLE FLY 5 6
Second NEEDLE FLY 6 7
Third NEEDLE FLY 7 6

If you win, turn to 168.

29
You lift the lid slowly, wondering what you might
find inside, Much to your surprise and delight, you
see a small ornament made of silver - a Dragon
artefact! You put the Silver Dragon in your pocket
and walk back down the tunnel to turn right into the
new branch. Turn to 59,

30

A glutinous creature known as the lron-eater has
dropped on to your head. Fortunately, it only eats
metal and is harmless to human flesh, You scrape
the thick jelly off your hair, but decide to leave the
cellar anyway. You run back up the steps into the
empty room and open the other door. Turn to 307.

31-33

31

For over an hour you lie unconscious on the desert
ground. Test your Luck, If youare Lucky, turn to 220.
If you are Unlucky, turn to 92.

32

You utter the words of the spell (reducing your
STAMINA by 1 point), but nothing happens. Un-
known to you, the golden rain has drained away all
your magic powers. Lose 1 LucK point. You have no
option but to use something from your backpack.
Turn to 115.

33 !
You tip open the sacks, but they contain merely
spices and grain. A quick search through the Lizard
Man’‘s clothes produces a large iron key, which you
slip into your shirt pocket. You move on and arrive
at another T-junction. If you wish to go left, turn to
125. If you wish to go right, turn to 262.

34

Choose any of the following spells, You will be
sent back to this reference after having learned a
spell. As soon as you have learned four spells, turn
to 180. You think about the task ahead, before

telling Yaztromo your choice.
Open Door Turn to 12
Creature Sleep Turn to 58
Magic Arrow Turn to 136
Language Turn to 194
Read Symbols Turn to 391
Light Turn to 223
Fire Turn to 264
Jump Turn to 301
Detect Trap Turn to 342
Create Water Turn to 367

35-37

35
You take each of the Dragons and place them on the
floor, You look at them carefully and ponder their
dormant power. Which Dragon will you attempt to
crush first?

The Bone Dragon Turn to 87
The Silver Dragon? Turn to 126
The Crystal Dragon Turn to 204
The Gold Dragon? Turn to 62
The Ebony Dragon? Turn to 324

Aboard your flying mount, you shout the words of
the Magic Arrow spell (deduct 2 STAMINA points).
A shimmering dart immediately appears on one of
your fingertips and flies out to meet the diving
Pterodactyl, The dart sinks deep into its underbelly,
but does not kill it, and it swiftly closes in to attack
(turn to 321).

37
You cast the spell (deduct 1 stAMINA point) and are
suddenly able to read the symbols. A simple warn-
ing on the plaque reads DO NOT DRINK! But you
decide that no harm can come to you if you just
bathe your wounds. Turn to 269.

38-41

38

You carry on down the corridor, which finally leads
into a large chamber lit by torches mounted on high
walls. At the top the walls slope inwards to form a
magnificent golden ceiling. A massive bronze idol
stands in the middle of the chamber with its war-
hammer raised. You will have to walk past the idol
in order to reach the entrance of a tunnel in the far
wall. If you walk to the left of the idol, turn to 291, If
you walk to the right of the idol, turn to 381.

39
Long before noon, you are desperately thirsty. If

you possess a water canister, turn to 63. If you can
and wish to cast a Create Water spell, turn to 281. If
you have no means of drinking, turn to 355.

40

The tapestries are large and colourful, depicting
various gods and deities, some of whom are in
human form, some in animal form, and a few are
part human and part animal. If you wish to pull one
of the tapestries from the wall and put it in your
backpack, turn to 19. If you would rather walk past
them, turn to 263.

41

There is nothing of interest among the Dark Dis-
ciples’ possessions, apart from a long, sacrificial
dagger which you place in your backpack. You see
an archway in the wall behind the altar and decide
to walk over to it. Turn to 341.
42

Stepping through the doorway over the body of the
Serpent Guard, you find yourself in the middle of a
deserted square. Turn to 111,

43
As you make your way across the dusty floor to the

door in the wall opposite, your mind suddenly fills
with horrific images, You scream in terror, as you
think you see the whole room become engulfed in
flames. Your flesh appears to be burning and death
seems imminent. Your nightmare drags on for five
minutes before the strain makes you lose conscious-
ness. You come to about an hour later, and when
you try to stand up, you realize that you have lost
some of your nerve and courage. Your hands still
tremble and you feel completely shaken. Lose 3
SKILL points. You stagger towards the iron door in
the far wall to leave the room of fear. Turn to 117.

44-46

44

Through the semi-transparent drapes, you can just
see a white-robed man enter the chamber, carrying
a golden chalice. He is wearing a head-dress which
is fastened by a gold clasp in the shape of a phoenix
with its wings flat against his forehead. When the
Priest sees the Slave Guard, he drops to his knees
and presses his ear against the dead man’s chest.
Then he looks up and, after quickly surveying the
chamber, runs out again without noticing you.
Wasting no time, you set about opening the door.
Turn to 336.

45
Your burly opponent is a Pirate, well practised in
swordsmanship. He quickly draws his cutlass from
its scabbard as the eager crowd formsa circle around
you.

PIRATE SKILL

If you win, turn to 166.

STAMINAS

46
After walking for some fifty metres, your progress is
halted by a deep pit which spans the width of the
corridor. If you can and wish to cast a Jump spell,
turn to 215. If you are forced to jump the pit without
magical aid, turn to 259.

47-50

You run through the doorway into a cross passage.
To your left you see Leesha at the end of the
passage, opening an iron door, To your right, you
see a Dwarf crawling towards you on his hands and
knees. His face is red and blistered, and he appears
delirious with sunstroke. He seems to recognize
you, and calls out in a gruff voice. If you wish to
keep chasing after Leesha, turn to 314. If you wish
to speak to the Dwarf, turn to 171.

The body of the eagle shudders as it receives its
death blow. You drop out of the sky like a stone and
land fatally on the ground below. Your adventure is
over,

49
The corridor ends at a T-junction. If you wish to go

left, turn to 250. If you wish to go right, turn to 333.

"3

50

You crack the clay pot open with the hilt of your
sword and are surprised by the hissing sound of gas
escaping. The box is a looted treasure chest, but the
bandits did not fall for the trap that was left inside
it. Your head is engulfed in a cloud of poisonous
gas, which you cannot avoid inhaling. Lose 6
STAMINA points and 1 sKILt point. If you are still
alive, turn to 31.

NAA

"s

nN

a

5 OPS «et , e® © a? a -
. ae en Se oo ~— a > ow
Seas he OO eee SS ew er ee

54-53

51

You run into the sea and dive below the surface,
swimming underwater for as long as you are able to
hold your breath. Only when your lungs feel as
though they are bursting do you break the surface.
You look back and see the Shell Monster hovering
above the beach at the point where you jumped into
the sea. You swim along the shoreline and scramble
back on to the beach when the Shell Monster is out
of sight. Two portions of your Provisions are sod-
den and no longer edible. You decide not to risk
walking along the beach, so you head east inland
(turn to 327).

52

The acrid vapour becomes stronger, until you feel
quite sick. The room begins to spin before your eyes
and you cannot stop yourself from blacking out.
Teetering on the edge of the pool, you fall over. Test
your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 8, If you are
Unlucky, turn to 130.

53
You do not waste any time searching the bodies of
the Skeleton Men, butrun through the archway into
another chamber beyond. Turn to 119.

54-58

+4
You say the words of the spell (deduct 3 sTAMINA
points) and leap with ease over the wall, You land
gently in the middle of a deserted square. Turn to
111.

55
The chair has many mysterious powers, and few

dare sit on it. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to
286, If you are Unlucky, turn to 360.

56
The corridor turns sharply to the left again and soon
you arrive at another T-junction. The corridor is
bare and uninteresting straight ahead, so you de-
cide to turn right. Turn to 46,

57
Another dollop lands just by your feet and the
vapour rising from it smells sharp and acidic, Decid-
ing that it would be dangerous to linger any longer
in the dark cellar, you climb back up the steps and
open the other door. Turn to 307.

58

Yaztromo explains that his Creature Sleep spell will
put to sleep any humanoid creature. He tells you the
incantation necessary to cast the spell and says that
it hardly drains your energy at all, merely by 1
STAMINA point each time you use it. Return to 34,
after writing down the spell and its sTAMINA cost on
your Adventure Sheet,
fi

m ‘ yw

,
ym)

i

wy by

PA

59-60

Ahead in the corridor you see a cloaked figure
carrying a lantern and walking away from you. You
call out, but the figure only walks away faster. You
hurry after it and are almost alongside it when it
spins around to reveal its hideous face, Taut yellow
skin is stretched over its skull; its eyes are blood-red
and sunk deep in their sockets. Surviving the stare
of a Phantom requires great courage. Roll two
dice, If the total is the same as or less than your
SKILL, turn to 280. If the total is greater than
your SKILL, turn to 253.

60
The bucket clatters to the stone floor when the rope
is cut, spilling its contents — old bones — all around
the room, Gathering them all together, you discover
that one of them has been carved into the shape of a
Dragon. This is one of the artefacts you have been
seeking! You put the carved bone in your pocket
and walk over to the door in the far wall. Turn to 21.

61-64

61

You show the Gnome no mercy and run him
through with your sword. You search through his
room and find a purple silk purse inside a tin box.
You open the purse and find a silver armband inset
with a large emerald. If you wish to put on the
armband, turn to 384. If you wish to climb back
down the ladder and walk back past the last junc-
tion, turn to 262.

62
The artefact looks harmless lying on the floor, but
you suspect that destroying it will not be an easy
matter. [f you are carrying a war-hammer, turn to
247. If you do not have this weapon, turn to 193.

63
You pour all the precious water into your mouth
and gulp it down swiftly. Staring into the empty
canister, you begin to regret your action. You have
no choice but to carry on, but at least you feel
refreshed (turn to 116).

64
In one of the boxes you find a gold medallion and
chain which has a heart engraved on it. If you wish
to put the medallion around your neck, turn to 163.
If you would rather leave it in its box and walk back
into the last room you entered to open the other
door, turn to 298.

65

The reflection of its own gaze does not affect the Eye
Stinger, and it bears down on you. You drop the
Mirror on the floor and hear it shatter, as you hurry
to draw your sword. Lose 1 LuCK point and turn to
236.

66
You soon arrive outside another door. No noise
comes from the other side, but when you try the
handle, you find that the door is firmly locked. Will
you:

Cast an Open Door spell (if you
are able to)? Turn to 322
Try to unlock it with a golden
key (if you have one)? Turn to 110
Continue walking down the
corridor? Turn to 17
67

The captain smiles as you hand him the gold, and
tells you that he hopes you will enjoy the river
journey. You shake hands and walk out of the cabin
(turn to 102),

.
>

yf

NEM

; ‘ tf

rl

uy * Thy. " .

~
at.

68-69

68

You chop furiously at the lock until it finally gives
way. The door opens into a corridor, which you
walk down until you reach two doors at the end.
One door has the symbol of the sun in relief on it,
and the other door bears the symbol of the moon.
There are also strange signs carved below both the
sun and the moon. Will you:

Cast a Read Symbols spell (if you

are able to) Turn to 255
Open the Sun door? Turn to 243
wzzq
Open the Moon door? Turn to 273
Bra

69

You reach into your backpack and give the handbell
to the happy Gnome. He then opens a tin box, takes
out a purple silk purse and throws it to you. You
open the purse and pull outa silver armband which
is inset with a large emerald. You place it on your
sword-arm and say goodbye to the Gnome. Turn to
384.

70-72

You have walked for only about an hour when the
sun begins to set. The flat desert sand offers no
shelter, and you are forced to sleep out in the open.
The night passes without incident and you are soon
on your way again. By mid-morning your thirst is
great, and you long fora drink of water. You search
around and suddenly see a bulbous green plant
covered in sharp spikes, looking like a small, round
cactus. If you wish to cut the plant open with your
sword, turn to 120. If you can and wish to cast a
Create Water spell, turn to 345. If you just wish to
press on south, turn to 192.

71
The Dark Disciples do not believe your story and
close in to attack you with their sickles, Turn to 188.

72

The desert quickly heats up and you are soon toiling
under the white sun. Not far to the west, you see
what looks like a cluster of trees with large birds
circling above them. If you wish to walk over to the
trees, turn to 142. If you prefer to keep walking
south, turn to 39.

73-74

73

Leesha appears surprised that you have managed to
enter her inner temple and defeat all her guards.
She rises from her couch and steps towards you,
holding aloft a shiny, black, crescent-shaped object.
If you can and wish to fight her using a Giant
Sandworm’s tooth, turn to 219. If you wish to attack
her with your sword, turn to 282.

74

You step into the tunnel and notice that the floor
starts to slope downwards. It finally leads down to
the edge of a flooded room. Water flows into the
room through the mouth of a lion’s head set in the
wall. There is a ledge on the far wall which rises
above the water, and the tunnel continues beyond
it. You shrug your shoulders and wade into the
murky water. You are waist-deep in the flooded
room when a long tentacle breaks the surface. The
water is stirred up as the monster thrashes around,
sensing that food is near by, Suddenly another
tentacle wraps itself around your leg and tries to
drag you underwater. You draw your sword and
begin hacking blindly at your attacker. If you are
wearing a Bracelet of Mermaid Scales, turn to 396. If
you are not wearing this item, turn to 13.

75-77

5
The vicious Harpy swoops down to attack you with
its razor-sharp talons.

HARPY

If you win, set off south again, keeping a watchful
eye out for other hostile creatures (turn to 86).

SKILL8 STAMINA 5

You crawl away from the pool, trying to escape the
fumes, which make you feel sick. When you are at
last able to stand, you head back down the corridor
as fast as you can. Turn to 364.

77
By the time you are clear of the broken glass, there is
nobody in sight. The corridor stretches on, passing
a stone archway on the left. Whoever threw the
bottle did not run through the archway, so you
continue straight on. The corridor finally ends at a
T-junction, and you realize that you are unlikely to
find your assailant now. Wondering if it was
perhaps Malbordus taunting you, you ponder
which way to turn. If you wish to go left, turn to 250.
if you wish to go right, turn to 333,

78

Not far along the beach, you see a line of palm trees
and make your way over to them. You find two
coconuts on the beach and break them open with
your sword. After gulping down the milk, you
devour the soft white flesh inside the shell and lie
down in the shade to rest. Add 3 STAMINA points.
Checking through your belongings, you find that
sea-water has seeped through the waxed paper
wrappings of your Provisions. Roll 1 die and reduce
your Provisions by the number rolled. If the number
rolled is 3 or greater, lose 1 Luck point as well.
When you at last feel fit enough to walk, you stand
up and decide which way to head. If you wish to
walk east inland, turn to 327. If you would rather
walk south along the coast, turn to 151.

mu

———— A

79-80

79
The door opens into a candle-lit chamber which has

a strong, musty smell. The floor is covered with
debris - scraps of rotting food, matted hair, ash,
teeth and animal droppings. When the door behind
you closes, the door in front of you flies open, and a
deformed, one-eyed mutant lumbers into the room,
brandishing a silver rod. A bolt of white light shoots
out from the rod and burns a black patch on the floor
by your feet. The sun has set outside and the Night
Horror is stalking the corridors of Vatos in search of
prey. If you wish to use your sword against this
loathsome creature, turn to 85. If you would rather
search through your backpack for some other
weapon, turn to 309.

80
The corridor soon tums right again and you reach
an iron door in the right-hand wall. In the distance
you can see glowing lights dancing about in the
gloom of the corridor. If you wish to open the iron
door, turn to 153. If you wish to investigate the
moving lights, turn to 339.

81-82

82

The afternoon sun continues to beat down relent-
lessly, its intensity causing shimmering waves of
heat to rise from the parched sand. Your mouth
and throat feel as if they have been baked in a day
oven, and you begin to suffer the consequences of
loss of water from your body. Lose 4 STAMINA
points. Desperate to find water soon, you press on
resolutely (turn to 24).

82

There is a scroll of paper inside the casket with a
message written on it in dried blood, which reads,
‘The Messenger of Death awaits you.’ A shiver runs
down your spine at the thought, and you tear the
paper into shreds. Hurling the casket at the wallina
fit of rage, you look around and decide what to do
next. Will you:

Help yourself to some of the

gems? Turn to 143
Take the golden skeleton

statuette? Turn to 386
Leave the room by the door

opposite? Turn to 3

83-84

83

The Gnome is grateful that you did not slay him. He
tells you that he stumbled across Vatos many years
ago and decided to stay. He is nothing but a scaven-
ger these days, but he says he is quite happy. Vatos
was deserted for many years, but gradually men
and other creatures found it while seeking shelter,
and a few of them stayed. There is no law in Vatos
and nobody in control, although the most powerful
usually get their way. Passing caravans are attacked
for food, the raids being organized by a High Pries-
tess and her slaves, You ask him if he has heard
of Malbordus, but he shakes his head, saying, ‘I
don‘t take much interest in people. I just spend
my time collecting and scavenging, Perhaps you
have something to trade? I would give a lot for
one of those fancy things that you look through
to make other things seem a lot closer than they
really are.’ If you have a telescope to trade, turn
to 138. If you do not have what the Gnome seeks,
turn to 321.

84

The afternoon sun continues to beat relentlessly
down, its intensity causing shimmering waves of
heat to rise from the parched sand. Your mouth and
throat feel as if they have been baked ina clay oven,
and you begin to suffer the consequences of loss
of water from your body. Lose 4 sTAMINA
points, Desperate to find water soon, you press
on resolutely (turn to 303).

85
The Night Horror is a formidable opponent and is
difficult to defeat with a sword.

NIGHT HORROR

If you win an Attack Round, roll one die. If you roll
between 1 and 3, your blow will not have harmed
the Night Horror’s undead flesh. If you roll between
4and 6, your blow will wound it in the normal way,
However, each Attack Round that the Night Horror
wins, your STAMINA is reduced by 2 points, and
your sxrtt diminished by 1, because of the life-
draining effect of the bolt. If your SKILL is reduced to
o, your life will be completely drained away and you
will die. If you win, turn to 390.

SKILL 10 STAMINA 10

86-87

86

As you walk along, a leather pouch suddenly drops
out of the sky on to the ground in front of you. You
open the pouch and find a note inside, written
by Yaztromo. It says: ‘Friend, I have learned of
bad news. Malbordus is already ahead of you. But
look up, for help is at hand to enable you to catch

up.’

Obeying his instruction, you look up and at first
think another Harpy is above you, but then you see
that it is a giant eagle, gliding through the air. The
eagle circles above you and then lands with effort-
less ease close by. Pleased that old Yaztromo is
concerned for your life, you climb on to the back of
the eagle. You are soon riding through the air,
travelling quickly towards the Desert of Skulls.
However, your good fortune is quickly brought
to an end when you hear an ominous screeching
above you. Like a giant diving gannet, a hideous
Pterodactyl swoops down to attack the eagle. If you
are carrying a bow and arrow, turn to 132. If you
can and wish to cast a Magic Arrow spell, turn to
36. If you do not possess a missile weapon, turn to

363.

87

The artefact looks harmless lying on the floor, but
you suspect that destroying it will not be an easy
matter. If you are carrying a war-hammer, turn to
362. Lf you do not have this weapon, turn to 193.
88-89

88

The door opens into a room which is bare except for
two stone caskets lying open on the floor. It is
unnaturally cold in the room and the light is very
dim. In the corner; you find a clay goblet with a
heart etched inside the rim. You put the goblet
inside your backpack and leave the room by the
same door you entered, as there is no otherexit. You
walk-back down the corridor and past the last
junction, Turn to 250.

You look around, but the old man is nowhere to be
seen. Rummaging quickly through the robbers’
pockets, you find a small brass telescope and three
silver buttons. After packing away your finds, you
set off again in search of a place to stay (turn to 379).

go~9g2

go
You just manage to roll through the hole in the
doorway as the stone ceiling meets the floor with a
heavy thud. You pick yourself up and examine the
room into which you have thrown yourself. Turn
to2,

Another tunnel branches off the one you are walk-
ing down, to give you a choice of directions. If you
wish to continue straight on, turn to 347. If you
would rather turn left along the new branch, turn to

59.

g2

When you wake up, you feel terribly weak. Sitting
up, you see footprints in the sand ~ and you did not
make them. You hurriedly check your backpack and
find that all your Gold has been stolen. Cursing
your bad luck, you set off south again (turn to 70).

93-94

The door opens into a large hall which is lined with
armour and weapons. At the far end of the hall there
is an altar on a raised plinth, where three men with
sallow skin are ceremoniously clothing themselves
in dark brown robes, One of them sees you and
signals to the others. They each pick up a sickle and
advance towards you, They are Dark Disciples. If
you wish to tell them that you have come with a gift
for Leesha, the High Priestess of Vatos, turn to 11. If
you would rather fight them, turn to 188.

94

After casting the spell (deduct 1 STAMINA point),
you slowly begin to make sense of the pattern of the
shells, Itis a warning! The next two hundred metres
of the beach is sacred ground, not to be walked
upon by mortals. To doso would enrage the Demon
of the beach, If you wish to ignore the warning and
continue walking along the beach, turn to 6. If you
would rather journey east inland, turn to 327.
95-97

95
The light quickly fades as you crawl along the
tunnel, until you cannot see your hand in front of
your face. Will you:

Cast a Light spell (if you are
able to)? Turn to 221
Continue crawling in the dark? Turn to 246

Crawl back out of the tunnel,
leave the room and walk up the

corridor? Turn to 344

96

Just as you are about to walk through the archway
into the chamber beyond, the Skeleton Men rise up
from the floor. You can hardly believe your eyes, as
they advance slowly towards you. Transfixed with
fear, you cannot stop them thrusting their spears
into your chest. You drop to your knees and fall face
forward on to the floor, Your adventure ends here.

97
The helmet has been made by a skilful ironsmith. It
will afford you greater protection, Add 1 SKILL
point. Intent on finding the first Dragon artefact,
you walk south along the corridor. Turn to 149.

98-99

98

You enter a marble-floored room which is bare
except for the bronze head of a beautiful woman
mounted on the opposite wall. You are surprised
when its lips suddenly start to move, and you hear
her speak, ‘Welcome to the room of question,’ says
the soothing voice. ‘Tt has been an age since I last
spoke to anyone. You are obliged to answer my
question or die. Answer it correctly and you will be
rewarded. Answerit incorrectly and you will suffer.
Now tell me, how many Gold Pieces does Leesha
give to the winner of the art competition?’ If you
know how many Gold Pieces make up the prize,
turn to that number. If you do not know the answer,
turn to 154.

99

On seeing you, the desert rider draws his sword and
brings his camel to a halt, You call out, saying that
you do not wish to fight him. You learn that he is on
his way to join a merchant's caravan. You ask him if
he has any water to spare and he offers to sell youa
canister, but not for money. If you can and wish to
trade either a silver button or a pearl fora canister of
water, make the necessary adjustment on your
Adventure Sheet. After bidding farewell to the desert
rider, you set off east once again (turn to 257).

100-102

100

After only a few mouthfuls of the liquid, you feel
horribly ill. Some of the herbs in the liquid are
highly poisonous. Roll two dice and deduct the
number from your sTAMINA. If you are still alive,
turn to 76.

101

A feeling of terrible guilt overcomes you as you
withdraw your sword from the dead man. You roll
him over and see that he is clearly an outsider,
perhaps sent here to help you. You try to convince
yourself that he was either a treasure-hunter or an
assassin, but the nagging doubts will not go away.
Lose 2 LUCK points, But there is nothing you can do
now except walk on. Turn to 80.

102

The barge is neither very large, nor designed for
paying passengers, but you find a coil of thick rope
on which to lie. After your long walk, you are soon
sound asleep, and do not wake until one of the crew
taps you on the shoulder to say that Port Blacksand
is in sight. You stand up and watch the sinister-
looking city grow larger as you approach; ten min-
utes later you pass under a great arch to enter the
city walls. The crew soon have the barge moored,
obeying the frantic orders of the captain, who is
obviously eager to load up his waiting cargo and
leave before nightfall. You bid them all farewell and
set about looking for a place to stay the night. The
shadows start to lengthen as you walk through the

103-104

narrow streets and alleyways. Suddenly, an old
man in tattered clothes jumps out of a doorway and
says, ‘Looking for a bed, stranger? I know a good
place that offers a room, soup and bread for only 1
Gold Piece. If you're interested, follow me.’ If you
wish to pay and follow the old man, turn to 332. If
you would rather keep looking on your own, turn to
379.

103
Realizing that you are vulnerable to his magic
powers, Malbordus draws his cursed sword and
advances confidently. The sword has the ability to
paralyse, and only your own swordsmanship can
save you now.

MALBORDUS STAMINA 18

If you lose the first three Attack Rounds during
combat, you will be paralysed by the evil sword,
and Malbordus will triumph. Chaos will reign over
Allansia. If you win the battle without losing three
Attack Rounds, turn to goo.

SKILL 10

104
The arrow hits its large target, but does not kill the
Pterodactyl. It squawks and turns away, but then
dives down to attack again. If you wish to fire
another arrow at the giant reptile, turn to 199. If you
would rather let the flying giants fight it out, turn to
311,
105-108

105
The artist frowns and says, “You've got awful taste.
You wouldn't know the difference between art and
an Ore’s armpit!’ If you wish to attack the impudent
artist, turn to 123. If you would rather leave him to
his work and walk past him down the corridor, turn
to 376,

106
You stiddenly see movement in the sand, being
made by what looks like a large lizard, When it
scurries closer, you see that its head is somewhat
bird-like and its eyes are large and yellow like those
of a toad. It is a deadly Basilisk. Will you:

Fight it with your sword? Turn to 228
Cast a Fire spell? (if you are
able to} Turn to 189
Rummage through your backpack
for another weapon? Turn to 313
107

The pouch contains nothing except a small golden
key. You slip it into your pocket and continue your
trek (turn to 10).

108
On and on you walk under the searing desert sun.
Late in the afternoon you see footprints in the sand
leading from east to west across your path. If you
wish to follow the footprints, turn to 205. If you
wish to keep walking south, turn to 303.

109-111

109
Crawling blindly on, you do not see a tripwire,
which you accidentally trigger with your arm. An
unseen crossbow releases its bolt straight towards
you. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 16. If
you are Unlucky, turn to 368.

110

The key fits the lock and it clicks open with one turn.
Holding on to the hilt of your sword, you open the
door, Turn to 98,

111

Looking around, you see no sign of life, On the
opposite side of the square there is a large stone
archway. It seems as good a place as any to start
your search for the Dragon artefacts. You walk
through the arch to a stone stairway which de-
scends to a torch-lit corridor below, As you walk
warily down the stone steps, you wonder where
Malbordus might be. At the bottom of the steps, you
see an iron casket. If you wish to open the casket,
turn to 287, If you would rather walk south along
the corridor, turn to 140.

112-113

112

The grapes taste as good as they look, and they have
also been grown for a special purpose. They contain
magical healing properties. Add 4 sTAMINA points.
When you have eaten your fill, you walk on further
down the corridor. Turn to 237.

113
You draw your sword and run towards the murder-
ing Dark Elves. Fight them one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
First DARK ELF 5 6
Second DARK ELF 6 . 5

If you win, you find 2 Gold Pieces among the Elves’
belongings, and you may take one of their bows and
the two remaining arrows. After burying the poor
man who was killed by the Elves, you set off south
again (turn to 285).
114
As you utter the words of the spell, the lock clicks
open and you are able to push the door inwards.
Reduce your STAMINA by 2 points for casting the
spell, and turn to 88.

115

The Elemental exhales loudly again, and once more
you crash into the wall, as you try to rummage
through your backpack. Lose 2 STAMINA points.
Will you take from your backpack:

A Mirror? Turn to 27
A Phoenix Tapestry? Turn to 229
An Ebony Facemask? Turn to 241
None of these? Turn to 312

116-118

116
The sun’s relentless heat beats down on you, but
there is nowhere on the desolate landscape to offer
you shade, If you are wearing a headscarf, turn to
289. If you are bareheaded, turn to 275.

117
The door opens into a corridor. Looking left, you
see nothing of interest, but to your right, you see
glowing lights dancing about in the gloom of the
corridor. Curious to find out why the lights are
moving, you walk towards them. Turn to 339.

118

As you chant the spell, a shimmering dart appears
on your fingertip and flies out to meet the diving
Needle Fly, Itis killed instantly. You quickly conjure
two more darts and shoot the remaining two giant
insects, (Remember to deduct 6 STAMINA points for
casting the spell three times.) Turn to 168,
=
~>

- ~~ SN oe *
. “ i 4
— 4 ~ io) t '

ere
ne

Sx

119-120

119
You walk through the archway and up a flight of
marble steps into a luxurious chamber, which has a
high ceiling supported by parallel lines of marble
pillars. Between the pillars there is a beautiful hand-
woven red carpet which leads up to another short
flight of steps. At the top of the steps, lying on a
couch strewn with satin cushions, is a beautiful
woman. She is being fanned by an ugly bald-headed
creature, He has the muscular torso of a man, but
his face is gaunt and his eyes are milky-white. You
have entered the inner temple of Leesha. She
smiles, snaps her fingers and her blind servant
lumbers down the steps to attack you.

SERVANT SKILLS STAMINA 8

If you win, turn to 73.

You cleave the top of the plant and see that it is filled
with water. Carefully avoiding the spikes, you
scoop out handfuls of cool water and soon feel
refreshed, When you have drunk your fill, you set
off south again (turn to 377).
121-124

121
The bolt of light flies into your chest, knocking you
back against the wall. Lose 2 stamina points and 1
SKILL point for its life-draining effect. What item
will you pull from your backpack:

A Brass Handbell? Turn to 198
A Sandworm’s tooth? Turn to 331
A Mirror? Turn to 22

122

You just fail to reach the far side of the pit, and
bounce off its edge into the dark depths below. You
land heavily some ten metres below, injuring your-
self quite badly. Lose 6 STAMINA points and 1 SKILL
point. If you are still alive, turn to 325.

123
The artist makes no attempt to defend himself as
you thrust your sword at him. But instead of
wounding him, your sword hits an invisible shield.
It jumps from your hand, turns and then flies witha
dull thud into your chest. Its tip pierces your heart,
killing you instantly,

124
Although the man bumped into you, he shouts and
curses until the three flasks are filled again. Yet
another Gold Piece is spent in paying for his drinks,
and you begin to wonder how long your money will
last. Lose 1 Luck point. You finally manage to leave
the bustling bar and lock yourself inside your room.

425127

You wake at dawn after a restless night, scratching
madly at inflamed bites from the bedbugs in your
straw mattress, Wasting no more time in the Black
Lobster, you make your way down the jetty to the
Belladonna which, you notice, is flying the skull and
crossbones — the flag of a pirate ship! Walking
cautiously up the gangplank, you step aboard the
ship (turn to 238).

125
The corridor soon comes to a dead end, although
there is a ladder leading up through a hole in the
ceiling. If you wish to climb up the ladder, turn to
329. If you would rather walk back down the corri-
dor and continue straight on past the last junction,
turn to 262.

126
The artefact looks harmless lying on the floor,
but you suspect that destroying it will not be an
easy matter, If you are carrying a war-hammer,
turn to 231. If you do not have this weapon, turn

to 193.

127
You drop the burning medallion on to the sand and
see a large letter M painfully branded on the palm of
your hand. Fortunately it is not your sword-arm
which is affected. Lose 1 STAMINA point. Realizing
that Malbordus must be ahead of you, you continue
south as quickly as possible (turn to 159).
"

ae
€

4

eT ar HP RRO

. >t , aS “a3 re s ek
Sy, Ee
DSH e AAS SE NSS BNA BEN

128-129

128

The door opens into a room which is empty apart
from a large pile of bones lying in the corner.
Scratch-marks on the wall appear to have been
made by claws. You hear growling from a low arch
in the far wall. Suddenly the door behind you opens
and three large meat-covered bones are thrown into
the room, before the door is slammed shut again.
The growling becomes loud barking and suddenly a
huge, slavering Death Dog bounds into the room. It
sees you and immediately attacks.

DEATH DOG

lf you win, turn to 378,

SKILL9 STAMINA 10

129
When the sand-storm finally dies down, you see a
shining object protruding from the sand. You reach
down, tug on the object and discover that it is a
brass handbell. You place it in your backpack and
press on east (turn to 26).
130-132

130
You fall into the water with a resounding splash.
You are not even conscious of your flesh turning
soft and falling away from your bones. The water is
now like concentrated acid because of its reaction
with the blood of the Tentacled Thing. Your adven-
ture is over.

131
You sit up with a start when you hear a deep
humming coming from the corridor on the other
side of the golden rain. There is a door behind the
drapes, but it is locked and there is no time to open
it, If you wish to hide behind the drapes, turn to 44.
If you wish to confront whoever is coming into the
chamber, turn to 227.

132
The diving Pterodactyl is a difficult target to hit, and
you aim carefully before releasing the arrow. Roll
two dice and add 3 to the total. If the total is the same
or less than your SKILL, turn to 104. If the total is
greater than your SKILL, turn to 254,

133-135

133

There is a sharp, acidic smell in the air as the
jelly-like creature known as the lron-eater begins to
digest your helmet. You throw your helmet on to
the floor and run back up the steps before your
sword can be eaten. Fortunately, the Iron-eater does
not harm human flesh. Lose 1 skiLt point for the
loss of your helmet. Back in the empty room, you
open the other door. Turn to 307.

134
Aware of your dire predicament, you close your
eyes and run at the Basilisk with your sword, But
the Basilisk has another natural weapon - its veno-
mous breath. Unable to see where to run, you are
easy prey for the beast. You are soon lying dead,
face down in the sand.

135
As you fumble to unlock the door, the crystal key
falls from your fingers to the floor. It shatters on
impact and you realize that all is lost. As the ceiling
lowers relentlessly to the floor, there is a sickening
crunch of bone, Your adventure ends here.
136-137

136

Yaztromo explains that his Magic Arrow spell will
cause a small, shimmering dart to be fired from your
fingertip with deadly accuracy at any target. He tells
you the incantation necessary to cast the spell and
says that it will not drain your energy too much;
only 2 STAMINA points are lost each time you use it.
Return to 34 after writing down the spell and its
STAMINA cost on your Adventure Sheet,

137
The door leads into a hallway, at the end of which
you see Leesha disappearing through another door-
way. There is a bronze idol, in the shape of a dog,
standing in the middle of the hallway. If you wish to
stop and inspect the idol, turn to 186. If you would
rather follow Leesha, turn to 47.

138-139

138

You take the brass telescope out of your backpack
and dangle it in front of the Gnome to tease him. He
Starts to rub his hands together and snigger in
excitement. He kicks a rug out of the way and starts
to pull at a previously hidden iron ring that is
attached to one of the flagstones. The stone lifts up
to reveal a small chamber piled high with objects
and items accumulated by the Gnome over the
years. You rummage through and can hardly be-
lieve your eyes when you come across a small
Crystal Dragon. It is one of the artefacts that you
seek. You take it and give the Gnome the telescope.
Bidding him farewell, you climb down the ladder
and walk back down the corridor past the last
junction. Turn to 262.

139
If you are able to cast a Detect Trap spell, turn to 197.
If you do not know this spell, turn to 179.
Yen

*
4

¢

4
itl
we
. —

di

,
7

+i b

ry

140-141

140
As you walk down the corridor, you suddenly feel a
light tap on your shoulder. You spin around and see
a horrifying creature with ragged clothes on its thin
body, Its hollow eyes and mouth are filled with
thick slime which makes its voice gurgle as it whis-
pers the word ‘Death’ in your ear. The Messenger of
Death then disappears, but somehow you know
what has happened, The Messenger of Death is a
sadistic killer who plays games with its victims.
Staying ahead of you, it will place each letter of the
word ‘death’ in various locations. Should you come
across and read all the letters of the word, the
Messenger of Death will reappear to revel in the
sight of your life draining away. Malbordus’s assas-
sin has given your search for artefacts an unwanted
twist. Turn to 330,

141
You take a bunch of brass keys from the torturer’s
belt and find the one to unlock the victim's mana-
cles, At first he is scared of you, believing itis a trick,
but gradually you convince him that you mean him
no harm. You learn that his name is Thitta, that he
was a servant of the High Priestess Leesha and was
caught trying to escape from Vatos. He asks you
why you are wandering about in the dungeon of
Vatos, and you tell him about Malbordus, the quest
and the Messenger of Death. His eyes widen and he
says, ‘l saw a cloaked figure suddenly materialize
before my very eyes in the treasure-room where I
was hiding before being captured. I only saw its face
142-145

for a moment, and it was hideous. It put something
inside a golden casket and then disappeared again.’
Thitta declines the offer to accompany you on your
mission, saying that he must try fo escape again.
You wish him luck and say goodbye. You leave the
room together, but go your separate ways along the
corridor. Turn to 66.

142
As you get close, you see that the trees surround a

pool of water. You have found an oasis. If you wish
to drink the water, turn to 337. If you wish to
continue south without drinking, turn to 207.

143
The gems are red-hot to the touch, although they do
not emit any heat ata distance. Test your Luck. If you
are Lucky, turn to 252. If you are Unlucky, turn to

338.

144
You seem to hang in the air for ages, but eventually
land on the ground beyond the pit. You waste no
time and continue straight on. Turn to 152.

145
The bolt of light flies past your head and scorches
the wall behind you. What item will you pull from
your backpack?

A Brass Handbell? Turn to 198
A Sandworm’s tooth? Turn to 331
A Mirror? Turn to 22

146-150

146
You tell the captain that you will offer him no more
than 2 Gold Pieces. He scorns your offer, but after a
few minutes of haggling, you agree on a fee of 3
Gold Pieces. You shake hands with the captain, pay
him and walk out of the cabin (turn to 102).

147
Unable to decipher the symbols, you decide to chase
after whoever threw the bottle at you. Turn to 77.

148
A thin figure in ragged clothing suddenly material-
izes in front of you. You begin to feel weak and sink
to your knees; you sense that the Messenger of
Death is revelling in your slow death. You have lost
the chance to destroy the Dragon artefacts, and
Malbordus will triumph. You have failed in your
mission.

149
The struggle is over; both of your arms become

entwined by the Sand Snapper’s tentacles. Slowly
you are dragged into the gaping mouth to be
slowly digested. Your adventure comes to a horrific
end,

150
The ceiling is descending fast, and you have to
stoop while trying to fit the crystal key into the lock.
Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 209. If you
are Unlucky, turn to 135.
151-152

151

Nat far down the beach, you notice a strange pat-
tern in the sand, made from hundreds of cowrie
shells. In the centre of the shells, skewered into the
ground, is a spear adorned with sea-bird feathers.
Will you:

Keep walking along the beach? Turn to 6
Turn east inland? Turn to 327
Cast a Read Symbols spell (if you

are able to)? Turn to 94

152
In the gloom of the torch-lit corridor, you see a
horrible creature hovering in the air and blocking
your path. It is round, with a large eye in the centre
of its dark green scaly skin, which is covered with
spines. The Eye Stinger floats towards you, trying to
mesmenze you with its hypnotic gaze and sting you
with its spines. If you wish to fight the killer with
your sword, turn to 236. If you would rather look
through your backpack for something to use, turn to

387.
153-155

153
The door opens into a room lit by torches set in the
wall. If you wish to walk across the dusty floor to an
archway in the wall opposite, turn to 261. If you
would rather continue along the corridor towards
the glowing lights, turn to 339.

154

‘Lam disappointed in you, warrior,’ continues the
talking head, ‘I had expected better.’ Green smoke
starts to pour from its mouth and you start to panic.
Before you can reach the door, the smoke starts to
swirl around your face, making you feel disorien-
tated. Lose 3 SKILL points and 4 Luck points, When
the smoke finally drifts away, the bronze head is still
and silent. You walk out of the room and up the
corridor. Turn to 27.

155
You crush the scorpion under your boot and carry
on pulling away the rocks. In the middle of the
rocks, you find a small white cotton sack, which is
tied around a spherical object. If you wish to untie
the sack, turn to 349. If you wish to leave the tied
sack among the rocks and continue south, turn

to 39.

156-159

156
Inside the pot you see a shrivelled paw, about the
size of a monkey’s. Will you:

Take the paw? Turn to 318
Lift the lid of the white pot? Turn to 14
Lift the lid of the red pot? Turn to 183
Walk through the chamber to the

Turn to 20

archway in the far wall?

157
The corridor soon ends at a T-junction. If you wish
to go left, turn to 175. If you would rather go right,
turn to 353.

158
You grit your teeth and pull the bolt out of your
shoulder. You crawl painfully on down the tunnel,
which finally opens out into a dusty room, lit by
torches set in the wall. Turn to 43.

159
The day wears on and you make good progress over
the flat scrubland. When itis finally too dark to walk
any further, you find shelter in a cluster of boulders.
Roll one die. If you roll a1, turn to 398, If you rollany
other number, turn to 15.

160—161

160

There is a row of windows along the far wall, one of
which is open. You hear a clap of thunder and walk
over to the open window to look outside. The bright
Seht hurts your eyes, and although the sun is
shining it is suddenly blotted out by a dark shape in
the sky. A huge, black Dragon soars overhead and
you see an evil-looking man riding on its back. The
Dragon roars and you can just hear the wicked
isech of Malbordus, The Dragon flies off north, and
there is nothing you can do to stop it. Malbordus
woe lead his hordes of chaos across Allansia and the
weorid will fall under a dark shadow. You have failed
= your mission.

161
the mural stretches along the wall for approxi-
mately twenty metres and depicts a great battle, A
mass of Undead, whipped on by vile Orcs, are push-
=xg back an army of men and Dwarfs. The leader of
cre Undead is hidden by dark robes, apart from his
Seshless, reptilian skull. His cold, evil, green eyes
stare threateningly from the mural. He appears to
Se holding a casket which is drawing in the spirit of
the king of the men and Dwarfs, for whom the battle
seems lost. You are fascinated by the painted detail
of the casket, and marvel at its magnificence. ‘Do

162-163

you like my work?’ comes the sudden question from
behind you. You spin round and seea man standing
calmly with paint-pots in his hand and a brush
behind his ear. He is smiling and seems pleased that
you are showing interest in his work. Will you:

Attack him? Turn to 123
Reply to his question? Turn to 296
Push past him and walk on? Turn to 376

162
The bare corridor turns sharply left. After fifteen
metres, you see a gauntlet lying on the stone floor. If
you wish to put the gauntlet on your sword-hand,
turn to 201. If you would rather step over itand walk
on, furn to 56.

163

Nothing eventful happens when you place the
medallion around your neck, but, unknown to you,
the medallion was made to be worn around the
necks of sacrificial victims. Lose 1 Luck point. Find-
ing nothing else of interest, you walk back into the
last room you entered and open the outer door.
Turn to 298.
aaa

164-166

164
Staring into the shimmering haze, you see a high
stone wall, less than half a kilometre away, Various
stone towers and roofs inside the wall protrude
above it. As you get closer, you see that wind-blown
! sand has drifted high against the wall and that no
12 ae ay trail or track leads to the entrance gate, which is
i

mg) partly blocked with sand. ‘Vatos!’ a voice inside you

be shouts. If you wish to try to open the wooden

j : 2 44i) side-door next to the entrance gate, turn to 382. If
you can and wish to cast a Jump spell, turn to 54.

165

The water is now deep red with blood. Just as you
Ty are climbing out on to the ledge, the water turns

suddenly black, and an acrid vapour rises from the

surface. If you wish to stay by the ed ge of the water

to see what happens next, turn to 52. If you would

rather head on down the tunnel, turn to 91,

iz.

166
The crowd does not stop you untying the leather
pouch which is hanging from the dead Pirate's
neck, You leave the murmuring onlookers and
climb the stairs to your room, where you lock your-
self in. You open the pouch and find 2 Gold Pieces
anda large pearl, You settle down to sleep and wake
at dawn after a restless night, To your disgust, you
find that you are covered with inflamed bites from
the bedbugs in your straw mattress. Wasting no
more time in the inhospitable Black Lobster, you
make your way down the jetty to the Belladonna

167-169

which, you see, is flying the skull and crossbones —
the flag of a pirate ship! Walking cautiously up
the gangplank, you step aboard the ship (turn
to 238).

167

Your whole body shudders as a bolt of light zigzags
out of the rod and shatters the lock on the door, But
the weapon was not intended for mortals’ use, and
you suffer the consequences. Lose 1 SKILL point
and 2 STAMINA points. You drop the rod on the floor
and walk through the open door into another room.
Turn to 2.

168
You step over the grounded Needle Flies and con-
tinue your trek. After half an hour's steady walking,
you stumble upon a robed man lying face down in
the sand. If you wish to stop to look inside a leather
pouch clutched in the hand of the dead man, turn to
107. If you wish to keep on walking, turn to 10.

169
You slowly squeeze the other button and watch
another bolt of light shoot out of the rod. But this
time it hits the door and shatters the lock. Your body
shudders a second time, and you realize that this
weapon was not intended for mortals’ use. Lose 1
SKILL pointand 2 STAMINA points, You drop therod
on the floor and walk through the open door into
another room, Turn to 2.

170-172

170
You boldly throw back the drapes, half expecting a
sign of death to be revealed. But there is merely a
plain iron door, which, when you turn the handle,
turns out to be unlocked. Will you:

Open the door? Turn to 365
Turn left along the corridor? Turn to 335
Turn right along the corridor? Turn to 162

171

You run to the Dwarf’s side and learn that he is an
envoy from Stonebridge, sent by Yaztromo. He has
brought you the legendary war-hammer of
Stonebridge, with which to smash the Dragon arte-
facts. Nothing other than a war-hammer can des-
troy the Dragons. He also tells you that a Mage told
him that it is vital that the Dragon found nearest to
the entrance to the catacombs must be destroyed
first. The Dwarf’s speech becomes more and more
laboured until he finally slumps down on to the
floor. There is nothing you can do to help the valiant
Dwarf, but you feel more determined than ever to
finish the mission successfully. Clutching the fabled
war-hammer, you run down the passageway to the
iron door through which Leesha disappeared. Turn
to 314,

172
The Golem crashes to the floor, breaking into many
pieces. Stepping over the pieces of stone, you make
your way over to the tunnel entrance. Turn to 74.
173-176

173
The captain laughs and says, ‘Wrong! Take the
pirate away to be flogged and thrown over the side.’
You are immediately seized, and must face your
doom. Your adventure ends here.

174
You begin shouting at the top of your voice to
drown out the mesmeric chanting, and draw your
sword to attack the Dark Disciples. Turn to 188.

475

You follow the corridor until it turns sharply to the
mght. On turning the corner, you see a tall reptilian
ceature wearing armour and holding a curved
sword. The Lizard Man appears to be guarding
some sacks that are piled up against the wall, If you
ssn and wish to cast a Creature Sleep spell, turn to
232. If you would rather fight the creature with your
sword, turn to 7.

176
Another dollop falls from the ceiling and lands on
your head. If you are wearing a helmet, turn to z 33.
= you are not wearing a helmet, turn to 30.

e-

ta > - = a
, lie mal

x %, waa se
we wwe <4 Pio! ™;<

477-179

177
You say the words of the Fire spell, and create a fire
large enough to keep you warm through the night.
Lose 1 STAMINA point for casting the spell. In the
early-morning light you continue your desert trek
(turn to 72).

178
Using your chosen method to unlock the door (if
you used the spell, deduct 2 staMINa points), you
step through the doorway into another room. You
toss the silver rod back through the doorway and
hear the grating noise of the ceiling beginning to
lower again. Knowing that you are safe from attack
from behind, you look around the room you now
find yourself in. Turn to 2.

179
Unknown to you, the door is an illusion. There is a
pit in front of the wall where you believe the door to
be, and you fall to the bottom of it some ten metres
below. Roll 1 die and deduct the number rolled from
your STAMINA, If you are still alive, turn to 25.

a ee

. 180

180
The old Wizard looks at you solemnly and says,
‘Every minute is vital: you must begin your journey
immediately. Without doubt, Malbordus will learn
of your mission to thwart him and may send an
assassin or two after you. My crow will lead you as
far as Catfish River. From there you can either take a
river vessel to Port Blacksand and then a sailing ship
south, orjourney overland to the Desert of Skulls. A
gtim task is ahead of you, but our thoughts will be
with you.’ Yaztromo leads you back down the spiral
staircase and out into the open. Suddenly he gives a
shrill whistle; a large crow immediately swoops
down from the top of the tower and settles on his
shoulder. ‘Now, crow, guide our friend as far as
Catfish River and make sure you keep a good look-
out. The last thing we want is an ambush on our
own doorstep.’ You shake hands with Yaztromo
and reassure him that you will destroy the Dragons
of Vatos before Malbordus can attain his evil goal.
He smiles and hands you a pouch containing 25
Gold Pieces. He then commands his crow to fly
south. The crow squawks and flies off. You hurry
after it, turning just once to wave goodbye to old
Yaztromo. Walking through the tall grasses, a
shiver runs down your spine at the thought of
Malbordus’s assassins coming after you. You
travel steadily south, only deviating twice to cir-
cumvent danger spotted by the crow. Three hours
later, you arrive at the banks of Catfish River at
a point where it is spanned by a rope-bridge. An
old barge is moored to a jetty beneath the bridge,

181

and you see several rough-looking characters
unloading sacks. If you wish to cross the bridge,
turn to 23. If you wish to buy your passage on the
barge to Port Blacksand, turn to 213.

181
The artist laughs and says, ‘I never expected a
compliment in this place of evil! No doubt you have
been lured here with a promise of great wealth by
the High Priestess, Leesha. I have staked my life on
my reputation. Perhaps you have not heard that
Leesha is a great lover of art, despite her cruel and
terrible ways. Each year she secretly invites artists to
perform their works inside the lost city. Down the
corridor you will see tapestries, and elsewhere there
are wood-carvings and etchings, She alone judges
the works, and the result is final, very final. The
winner receives 300 Gold Pieces, and the losers are
sacrificed to honour the Dark One. Needless to say,
I think I’m going to win. She gives us all a ring of
protection to wear so that we come to no harm while
we work. My name is Murkegg, and I’m pleased to
meet you.’ You ask him if he has heard of a man
called Malbordus, but he shakes his head. You
stress that it is very important that you find
Malbordus, and ask if he has any knowledge of the
tunnels and passageways. Murkegg rubs his chin
and replies, ‘I'm afraid 1 cannot help you much, as!
spend most of my time painting. 1 do know that
Leesha's inner temple can only be reached by walk-
img through the curtain of golden rain. Perhaps
whoever itis you are looking for is being entertained

| ea

182-183

by Leesha. All I can do is wish you luck.’ You shake
hands with him and press on down the corridor.
Turn to 376.

182
Your thrusting sword sinks deep into the eye of
your deadly adversary, sending it crashing to the
floor, Sickening yellow fluid oozes out of its eyes
and corrodes the stone floor, while emitting toxic
vapours into the air. You hold your breath and run
past the dying Eye Stinger. Turn to 340.

183
The pot is empty, but fortune is not with you. The
underside of the pot lid has the letter E written on it
in charcoal by the Messenger of Death. Lose 4
STAMINA points and 1 LUCK point. You throw the
lid on to the floor, butit is too late, Will you:

Lift the lid of the white pot? Turn to 14
Lift the lid of the black pot? Turn to 156
Walk through the chamber to the

archway in the far wall? Turn to 20
184-186

184

You utter the words of Yaztromo’s spell and a
shimmering dart appears on one of your fingertips.
The dart flies out and sinks deep into the chest of the
flying Harpy. It is killed instantly, and drops to the
ground with a thud. Reduce your STAMINA by 2
points for casting the spell. Keeping a watchful eye
out for other hostile creatures, you continue your
trek south (turn to 86).

185

The Phantom snatches the pearl out of the air.
Laughing at your pathetic attempt to slay it, the
Phantom grabs your arm with its free hand and you
are instantly paralysed. Lose 4 STAMINA points. By
the time the feeling has returned to your limbs, the
Phantom is well out of sight. Walking stiffly along
the tunnel, you continue your search. Turn to 190.

186
You notice that the idol’s mouth is hinged, and you
find that the lower jaw drops open when you pull
down on its left ear. Inside the dog’s mouth, you
find an artefact that you have been seeking —a small
Golden Dragon. You quickly place it in your pocket
and chase after Leesha. Turn to 47.

es ee -——]

——_ a

a aa =

187-189

187
As the ship starts to sink, all the cannon crew
run towards the wooden steps that lead to the
upper deck. In the mad scramble to escape, you
are clubbed on the back of the head. You fall
unconscious to the deck and drown aboard the
sinking ship,

188
The Dark Disciples let out a howl as they move
forward to attack you. Fight them one ata time.

SKILL STAMINA
First DARK DISCIPLE 9 5
Second DARK DISCIPLE 8 6
Third DARK DISCIPLE 9 5

If you win, turn to 41.

1
Knowing that a single glance from the piercing eyes
of the Basilisk is enough to kill you, you say the
words of the Fire spell with your eyes closed. A
defensive wall of fire suddenly flares up all around
you and burns on until the Basilisk tires of wait-
ing and moves on. Casting the spell costs you 2
STAMINA points. Only when you are certain that the
Basilisk is far away do you let the flames die and
walk on (turn to 108),

190-192

190
The tunnel finally ends at a T-junction. The cross
passage shows signs of more frequent use. The
walls are decorated with murals and tapestries and
there are torches at regular intervals to give plenty
of light. If you wish to turn left towards the murals,
turn to 161. If you wish to turn right towards the
tapestries, turn to go.

191

When you reach the end of the corridor, you realize
that it was not a shimmering curtain that you saw,
but a fine spray of golden rain which cascades from
a series of holes in the ceiling into a shallow trough
in the floor. The corridor turns left at the point
where the golden rain falls, and stretches to the left
as far as you can see. If you wish to keep walking
along the corridor, turn to 249. If you would rather
step through the golden rain, turn to 354.

192
As you keep going, you have difficulty in walking
in a straight line because of weakness caused by
dehydration, Lose 4 sTAMINA points, Only your
determination to beat Malbordus keeps you going
(turn to 377).

i — A a. le

— i sp

193-195

193

You draw your sword and smash the hilt down on
top of the Dragon. It rebounds off it, leaving the
artefact completely unmarked. But you have made a
fatal error in using your sword. Your joints start to
stiffen and you feel your skin grow taut against your
bones. Slowly your whole body petrifies until you
are nothing more than a lifeless stone statue. Your
adventure ends here.

194

Yaztromo explains that his Language spell will en-
able you to understand any creature you try to
communicate with, no matter what tongue it
speaks. He tells you the incantation necessary to
cast the spell and says that the energy lost when
using it is insignificant; merely 1 STAMINA point is
lost each time it is cast. Return to 34 after writing
down the spell and its sTaMINA cost on your Ad-
venture Sheet.

195
You concentrate on casting the spell, trying to blot
out the chanting voices from your mind. The effort
is great (deduct 1 STAMINA point), but you succeed,
and the three robed figures fall to the ground, fast
asleep. You waste no time and walk towards an
archway in the wall behind the altar. Turn to 341.
Se ee

Saas J cs ASS ~~.

"

196

196

You are no more than ten metres from the tent,
when suddenly the flap is thrown back by a fat
bearded man in yellow robes, his fingers adorned
with ornate gold rings. He does not attempt to
threaten you, but beckons you inside his tent,
saying, ‘Stranger, you look in need of a rest. Please
accept my hospitality, I may even tempt you to buy
some of my exotic wares.’ Sensing no apparent
danger, you step inside his tent and squat down on
top of a rug. The nomad, whose name, you learn, is
Abjul, gives you food and water which makes you
feel much stronger. Add 4 STAMINA points. Abjul
then smiles and says, ‘Now, what will you buy, my
friend?’ He goes into great raptures about all the
goods he has to sell, which you finally learn are as
follows:

Sealing-wax 2 Gold Pieces
Onyx Egg 3 Gold Pieces
lvory Beetle Charm 2 Gold Pieces
Bracelet of Mermaid Scales 3 Gold Pieces
Silver Mirror 4 Gold Pieces
Crystal Key 3 Gold Pieces
Ebony Facermask 3 Gold Pieces
Bone Flute 2 Gold Pieces

If you can and wish to buy any of Abjul’s goods,
make the necessary adjustment on your Adventure
Sheet. Abjul tells you that he thinks Vatos lies in the
southern part of the Desert of Skulls, and you
decide to take his advice. Thanking him for his help,
you set off south (turn to 389).
197-198

197
An inner voice tells you to say the words of the spell
(deduct 2 STAMINA points). Suddenly you see that
the arch does not exist at all. It is merely an illusion,
hiding a pit in front of the wall. You detect that the
other arch is genuine, and you walk through it.
Turn to 315.

You ring the bell and watch with pleasure as the
Night Horror drops its rod and tries to cover its ears
with its deformed hands. It screams in silent agony,
end then collapses on to the floor. But your delight
is short-lived, because you hear a grating sound
above you. The silver rod, out of the hands of its
owner, has magically triggered a mechanism in the
stone ceiling which is starting to lower on top of
you. You run to open one of the doors, but both
are firmly locked and cannot be opened, even by
Yaztromo’s spell. Will you:

Pick up the silver rod? Turn to 290
Try a crystal key in the door

(if you have one)? Turn to 150
Try to burma hole in the door

with a Fire spell

(if you know it)? Turn to 239

199—201

199

As you reach into your backpack for another arrow,
the eagle climbs steeply into the sky to out-
manoeuvre the Pterodactyl. You grab its feathers to
stop yourself from falling off its back and, in so
doing, drop your bow. You watch it spiral down to
the ground, and now youcan do no more than await
the outcome of the battle about to commence (turn
to 311).

200
Finding nothing that you think might destroy the
Eye Stinger, you decide to rely on cold steel and
draw your sword. Turn to 236,

Unknown to you, the gauntlet is cursed and will
lessen your dexterity, Lose 1 SKILL point. Unaware
of your disability, you walk on. Turn to 56.
202~203

202
As you walk along, you suddenly notice the pun-
gent smell of herbs in the air. It grows stronger as
you approach the end of the corridor, where there is
a crescent-shaped pool. There is a brass plaque
attached to the wall with strange symbols etched on
itwhich read @Z AZP Be 7A+ Will you:

Cast a Read Symbols spell

{if you are able to)? Turn to 37
Drink some of the herbal

liquid? Turn to 100
Bathe your wounds in the

herbal liquid? Turn to 269
Walk back down the corridor? Turn to 364

203
Till show you who’s clumsy!’ snarls the short-
tempered man as he smashes the flasks into your
face. Lose 1 sTaMINa point. If you wish to fight the
man, turn to 45. If you would rather save your anger
for Malbordus and make your way to your room,
turn to 251,

204-205

204
The artefact looks harmless lying on the floor, but
you suspect that destroying it will not be an easy
matter. If you are carrying a war-hammer, turn to 9.
If you do not have this weapon, turn to 193.

205
Before long, you reach the body of a man lying face
down in the sand, There is no blood, or any other
sign of him having been attacked, and yet he is
dead, despite having a water canister which is only
half empty. There is a look of agony on the dead
man’s face, as if he had witnessed something inex-
plicably terrible. There is nothing belonging to the
man which is of any use to you, apart from the water
canister. You place it in your backpack and head
south again (turn to 303).
—

206-209

206
The door opens into a room which is filled with all
PS kinds of implements of torture. The screaming is
5! MGA! ag coming from a man who is hanging from the ceiling

4 Vike

ee by his wrists, and the laughter is coming from his
‘ee torturer, a hooded, bare-chested man who is hold-
ing a smoking branding iron. If you wish to help the
unfortunate captive, turn to 328. If you would rather
leave him at the mercy of the torturer, and continue
up the corridor, turn to 66.

207
You suddenly stumble upon a large pile of rocks
partly hidden by the wind-blown sand. If you wish
to inspect the rocks, turn to 375. If you would rather
walk past them, turn to 39.

208
As you utter the words of the spell (deduct 1 stami-
NA point), the symbols begin to make sense. Too
late you realize that it is a curse of bad luck, taken
from a Mummy's tomb, Lose 4 Luck points. En-
raged, you chase after whoever threw the bottle at
you. Turn to 77.

209
The key turns in the lock and you are able to open
the door just as the ceiling reaches the height of
the handle. You crawl through the small space
and examine the room you find yourself in. Turn
to 2.

210-212

210
There is no alternative but to try to force the door
open with your sword. As you begin to hack at the
lock, you become aware of a hissing sound coming
from the other side of the door. Suddenly the door is
pulled open and you are confronted by a strange,
snake-like creature with a humanoid upper torso,
which is protected by armour. A Serpent Guard is a
vicious killer, and you are forced to draw your
sword in an attempt to survive.

SERPENT GUARD
If you win, turn to 42.

SKILL 10 STAMINA 10

211
Skeleton Men are fanatics, who always fight to the
death. They will be difficult to defeat.

SKILL STAMINA
First SKELETON MAN 9 6
Secorid SKELETON MAN 9 8

Fight them one at a time. If you win, turn to 53.

212
You find a small silver box inside the alcove which
has a Dragon motif etched into the lid. Something
inside rattles when you shake the box. If you wish
to open the box, turn to 29. If you would rather
replace the box in the alcove, walk back down
the tunnel and turn right into the other branch,
turn to 59.

213-215

213
After watching the crow fly back towards Yaztro-
mo’s tower, you follow the path to the jetty and
walk confidently up to the first crewman you come
to. You ask to talk to the captain. He eyes you
suspiciously and after a long pause says, ‘Follow
me.’ He leads you on to the barge and knocks
hesitantly on one of the cabin doors. A gruff voice
shouts, ‘Enter!’ The crewman opens the door and
§estures at you to enter the cabin. You stride into
the cabin and see a stocky man dressed in clothes
that have seen better times, He asks you your
business and you tell him that you wish to buy your
passage to Port Blacksand. ‘Anybody who would
pay to get to the city of thieves must be either
desperate or insane,’ he says, laughing. ‘It will cost
you 5 Gold Pieces!’ If you wish to pay the captain his
asking price, turn to 67. If you wish to haggle, turn
to 146.
214

After placing the coin in the slot, a panel in the door
flaps up, revealing, much to your horror, the letter T
scratched on its reverse side. The Messenger of
Death has struck a blow. Lose 4 sTaMINa points for
the shock to your system. You curse the evil game
and walk through the doorway. Turn to 268,

215
You utter the words of the spell (deduct 3 sTAMINA
points) and leap over the pit with ease. Landing
gently on the far side, you set off along the corridor.
Turn to 152.
216-218

216

The door opens into a storeroom which is filled with
vases, urns, rugs, boxes, cushions and chests. As
you walk in, the door slams shut behind you and a
sinewy, horned beast with red skin suddenly climbs
out of one of the urns and starts to spit fire at you.
The Fiend is guardian of the storeroom and you
must fight it.

FIEND SKILL 6 STAMINA8

In addition to its attack with claws and teeth, roll
one die every Attack Round for its fiery breath. Ona
rall of 1 or 2, it burns you and causes an additional
I point of damage to be subtracted from your
STAMINA. On a roll of 3-6, you avoid the blast. If
you win, turn to 233.

217
You take a long gulp of delicious water, savouring
the brief moment when your mouth does not feel as
dry as the desert sand all around you. The afternoon
sun continues to beat down relentlessly, its inten-
sity causing shimmering waves of heat to rise from
the parched sand. You resist the temptation fo
finish off the water, and you press on (turn to 303).

218
In the pocket of one of the Rat Men, you find 3 Gold
Pieces and a monkey’s tail. In the far wall you see
two arches and corridors running from them. If you
walk through the left arch, turn to 315, If you walk
through the right arch, turn to 139.
219-220

219
Leesha’s facial expression changes suddenly from
one of smug superiority to a look of horror. Invul-
nerable to ordinary weapons, her only weakness is
being attacked with the jagged edge of a Giant
Sandworm’s tooth. On seeing your weapon, she
flees from the temple through a door in the wall
behind the couch. If you wish to open the chest
lying beside the couch, turn to 265. If you would
rather run through the doorway after Leesha, turn
to 137-

220

When you wake up, you feel terribly weak. Butthe
thought that Malbordus may now be ahead of you
brings you to your feet. With grim determination,
you stagger on south (turn to 70).

2421-222

221
You utter the words of the spell (deduct 2 sTAMINA
points), and the tunnel is immediately lit by magical
light. You crawl on and see a crossbow attached to
the wall further down the tunnel, with a tripwire
‘wo metres in front of it. You climb over the wire
without triggering it, and squeeze past the mounted
crossbow. The tunnel finally opens out into a dusty
room lit by torches set in the wall. Turn to 43.

The claws dig deep into your flesh and draw blood.
The monkey's paw is cursed and will drain the spirit
of all those except the Undead. Lose 2 SKILL points.
You wrench the paw from your hand and drop it
back in the pot, Will you:

Lift the lid of the white pot? Turn to 14
Lift the lid of the red pot? Turn to 183
Walk through the chamber to the

archway in the far wall? Turn to 20
223-224

223

Yaztromo explains that his Light spell will illumin-
ate any room, cavern or area, whether its darkness
is natural or magical. He tells you the incantation
necessary to cast the spell and says that the energy
drained when casting it is not too much; only
2 STAMINA points are lost each time you use it.
Return to 34 after writing down the spell and its
STAMINA cost on your Adventure Sheet.

224

You utter the words of the Light spell (reducing
your STAMINA by 2 points), but the spell does not
work and the gloom is unbroken. Unknown to you,
the golden rain drained all your magical powers. If
you wish to descend further into the gloom, turn to
348. lf you would rather climb back up the steps and
open the other door, turn to 307.

225
You lunge at the Phantom, but your sword meets no
resistance. Unaffected by normal weapons, the
Phantom laughs at your pathetic attempts to slay it.
It grabs your arm and you are instantly paralysed.
Lose 4 STAMINA points, By the time the feeling has
returned to your limbs, the Phantom is well out of
sight. Walking stiffly along the tunnel, youcontinue
your search. Turn to 190.

226
You step on to the black patch and pick up the
bronze medallion. Although it feels cold to the
touch, you see with horror that the flesh on your
hand is burning. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 127. If you are Unlucky, turn to 323.

Nec Pe, <=

ray

>
‘4

‘>
Sasa -
**.

as

Si Set hed £ eee
‘tm sy mike
i Pe ee

227-228

227
You stand against the wall, gripping your sword. A
man in white robes enters the chamber carrying a
golden chalice. He is wearing a white head-dress
which is fastened by a golden clasp in the shape of a
phoenix with its wings flat against his forehead.
When the Priest sees the Slave Guard, he drops to
his knees and presses his ear against the dead man's
chest. Suddenly he looks up and sees you, and calls
out in a loud voice, ‘Barrabang Hinpo Garrabang.’
Smoke rises from the golden chalice and forms
into the shape of a fat humanoid. The Priest has
summoned a Wind Elemental to kill you. The
Elemental’s cheeks puff up and the force of its
exhalation sends you flying against the wall. Lose 2
STAMINA points. Your sword will not harm the
Elemental and you must use something else to
combat it before you are battered to death. If youcan
and wish to use a Fire spell, turn to 32. If you wish to
use something from your backpack, turn to 115,

228
You do not even raise your sword against the
Basilisk, for a single glance from its piercing eyes is
enough to kill you.

ee eas

229
The Priest instantly recognizes the tapestry and the
significance of the Phoenix. He calls outa few words
and the Wind Elemental recoils into the golden
chalice. Realizing that you have the advantage,
you tell the Priest that the Slave Guard was killed
because he was planning to assassinate Leesha.
Acknowledging your superiority, the Priest apolo-
gizes for his unwarranted attack, bows and walks
back under the golden rain to leave the chamber.
You waste no time and pull back the drapes to open
the door, Turn to 336.

230
You swim furiously towards the man-of-war and
wave your arms to attract attention. A rope is
thrown down to you and you haul yourself on to the
victor’s ship. Much to your surprise, the crew are
made up entirely of Dwarfs, The captain questions
you and other members of the sunken Belladonna’s
crew, who have also been brought aboard. You tell
the captain that you are on an important mission
which started at the Dwarf village of Stonebridge.

The captain eyes you suspiciously, accusing you of
being no more than a desperate pirate. ‘So you say
you started your quest in Stonebridge,’ says the
captain, ‘If thatis the case, tell me whois their king.’
If you reply that his name is Gallibrin, turn to 173, If
you reply that his name is Gillibran, turn to 278.

231
You raise the war-hammer into the air and bring it
crashing down on top of the Dragon. It rebounds off
it, leaving the artefact completely unmarked. You
have chosen the wrong Dragon to destroy. You feel
suddenly very weak as an unseen evil force tries
to protect the artefact. Lose 1 SKILL point and 2
STAMINA points. Which Dragon will you now
attempt to destroy?

The Bone Dragon? Turn to 362
The Crystal Dragon? Turn to 9
The Gold Dragon? Turn to 247
The Ebony Dragon? Turn to 279

232
Uttering the words of the spell, you watch with
amusement as the angry Lizard Man suddenly
drops sound asleep on the floor. Reduce your
STAMINA by 1 point for casting the spell, and then
turn to 33.

233
There is no other way out of the room except by the
way you entered, If you wish to search through the
storeroom, turn to 64. If you would rather leave
straight away and open the other door in the last
room you entered, turn to 298.

234-236

234

You tap the glass ball on one of the rocks and watch
it break open like an egg. The tiny Sprite flies out,
rejoicing at the top of his almost inaudible high-
pitched voice. He thanks you over and over again
for releasing him from the entrapment spell. He
sprinkles some sparkling dust on your head and
says it will bring you good fortune. Add 1 Luck
point. He also advises you to make a headscarf out
of the sack and cord to keep the sun off your head,
as itis still a long way to Vatos. As you begin to tear
open the sack, the Sprite waves and flies away. With
your head and neck protected, you stride off south
(turn to 39).

235

[tis now far into the night, and the strenuous efforts
of the day have left you feeling tired and thirsty.
You find a bowl of water on one of the tables, which
you empty down your throat in seconds. Too fati-
gued to go on, you lie down in the corner of the
room on the soft, inviting cushions, in order to rest.
If you let yourself fall asleep, turn to 267. If you stay
awake, turn to 131.

236
Trying desperately to avoid the Eye Stinger’s gaze,
you cut blindly through the air with your sword.
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 182. If you
are Unlucky, turn to 299.
237-238

237

The corridor ends at an archway whichis covered by
a black curtain. There is a skull carved out of the
stone above the archway. Despite its ominous
appearance, you throw back the curtain and step
through the archway. You enter a small chamber
which appears to be the annexe of a larger chamber
beyond the archway in the wall opposite. But your
immediate concern is with the creatures who are
standing guard on either side of the archway. They
have human bodies and skeletal heads. Each wears
a strange helmet in the shape of a Sphinx. In a
rasping voice, one of the Skeleton Men confronts
you, saying, "Give good reason to intrude on the
domain of Leesha, or die.’ Both of them stride
towards you with their spears pointed at you. Will
you:

Cast a Creature Sleep spell (if you

are able to)? Turn to 371
Tell them that you have brought

Leesha a Giant Sandworm’s

tooth (if you have one)? Turn to 294
Attack them with your sword? Turn to 211
238

You walk around the ship until you find Gargo. He
tells you that one of his gunners was killed in a
tavern brawl last night, and that you will have to
take his place. Your job will be to load cannonballs
during battle. You are taken below deck and shown
your hammock. Soon the Belladonna sets sail and
239 ©

you are pleased that at last you are heading south.
In mid-afternoon there is a sudden shout from the
crow’s-nest, ‘Ship on the starboard bow!" The ship is
suddenly bustling with the crew running about
their duties. The captain shouts his orders and
everybody runs to their battle-stations, Wondering
who the enemy might be, you take your place at
your cannon. You hear the bad news that the enemy
is a man-of-war and not a merchant ship. Noise
suddenly erupts all around as the man-of-war's
cannonballs smash into the Belladonna, The order is
given to fire, but you realize that the Belladonna is no
match for the battleship. In the course of the fierce
battle, the Belladonna starts to sink and you fear for
your life. Roll two dice. If the total is the same or
greater than your SKILL, turn to 187. If the total is
less than your SKILL, turn to 308.

239
The ceiling is lowering fast and you are on your
hands and knees by the time the spell is cast (deduct
2 STAMINA points), The door suddenly bursts into
flames and you hur! yourself through the hole that
is made. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to go.
If you are Unlucky, turn to 356.

240-242

240
When the Gnome sees your drawn sword, he taps
his pole on the floor three times in quick succession,
It transforms before your eyes into a hissing serpent
which slithers along the floor towards you.

SERPENT SKILL 6

lf you lose any Attack Rounds, tum to 373. If you
win without losing any Attack Rounds, turn to 270,

STAMINA 6

241
You quickly pull the mask over your face, hoping to
repel the Wind Elemental. But it has no effect at all,
and you are blown back against the wall, Lose 2
STAMINA points. Will you try:

A Mirror? Turn to 27
A Phoenix Tapestry? Turn to 229
Neither of these? Turn to 312

242
Seizing the Pterodactyl in its sharp talons, the eagle
tears at its neck with its sharp curved beak. The
Pterodactyl’s death squawk grows fainter, as the
huge flying reptile plummets to the ground like a
stone. You cheer the valiant eagle as it continues to
fly south. After flying over Whitewater River, the
terrain becomes gradually more arid. When you at
lastreach the edge of the desert, the eagle flies down
to land. Itis dusk and the eagle does not intend to fly
into the desert. You dismount and look around fora
place to shelter, and opt for a hollow in the crusty
243-244

sand. You awake soon after dawn, but are disheart-
ened to find that the eagle has flown off home. You
stare out into the desert landscape and see nothing
but barren sand. Wondering what fate will befall
you in the wilderness, you start the long walk
south. As the sun rises, it quickly becomes uncom-
fortably hot. By noon, your mouth is parched and
your thirst is unbearable. If you are able to cast a
Create Water spell, turn to 297. If you have not
learned this spell, turn to 81.

243
The door opens into a narrow corridor which grows

hotter as you proceed along it. You start to sweat
profusely and realize that you can go no further.
You turn to go back, but flames have started to shoot
from the cracks between the stones in the walls and
floor. You are trapped in the corridor of fire. The
sign under the sun symbol read Doom, and the
warning came true. Your adventure ends here.

244
Hoping to find something that might be effective
against the Phantom, you thrust your hand into
your backpack. What will you throw at the Phan-
tom:

A Pearl? Turn to 185
A Silver Button? Turn to 350
An Ivory Beetle Charm? Turn to 317
None of these? Turn to 260

245-247

245
Your sword cuts through the Shell Monster easily,
but does not appear to harm it. It continues to lash
you and you reel back under its constant barrage.
Lose 4 STAMINA points. You realize that you cannot
harm it. If you wish to run away, turn to 359. If you
wish to run into the sea, turn to 51.

246
Ifyou are able to cast a Detect Trap spell, turn to 388.
[f you do not know this spell, turn to 109.

You raise the war-hammer into the air and bring it
crashing down on top of the Dragon. It rebounds off
it, leaving the artefact completely unmarked. You
have chosen the wrong Dragon to destroy. You
suddenly feel very weak as an unseen evil force tries
to protect the artefact. Lose 1 sKILL point and 2
STAMINA points. Which Dragon will you now
attempt to destroy?

The Bone Dragon? Turn to 362
The Silver Dragon? Turn to 231
The Crystal Dragon? Turn tog
The Ebony Dragon? Turn to 279

248-249

248
As you whisper the words of the Open Door spell,
with your parched mouth, the door swings slowly
inwards. Deduct 2 sTaMINa points for casting the
spell. You step through and find yourself in the
middle of a deserted square. Turn to 111,

249
Walking along the corridor, you suddenly see

movementin the shadows. A muscular figure wear-
ing leather armour is striding towards you. The
torch light bounces off two long knives which the
figure is brandishing, As the light falls on its head,
you see that its skin is green and pock-marked, and
that it has red eyes, flared nostrils and a wide mouth
with needle-like teeth. In a deep guttural voice it
says, “Malbordus will triumph, and you will die.’
The Mutant Orc Assassin has been sent to slay you.

MUTANT ORC SKILL 11 STAMINA 11

Unless you are armed with a dagger in addition to
your sword, you will be at a disadvantage against
the trained killer with its two long knives. Reduce
your Attack Strength by 2 points during each Attack
Round. If you win, turn to 5.
250-251

250
You pass a doorway in the left-hand wall which has
an ormately carved surrounding of hideous crea-
tures being consumed by flames. If you wish to
open the door, turn to 128. If you would rather keep
on walking, turn to 344.

?

251
To the jeers of the crowd, you make your way
towards the stairs. Following the example of the
burly man, the crowd pushes and jostles you until
you reach your room. Once inside, you lock the
door, but find to your horror that you have had your
pockets picked during the commotion. All your
remaining Gold Pieces have been stolen. Lose 2
LUCK points. You settle down to sleep, cursing your
luck, and wake at dawn after a restless night. To
make matters worse, you find that you are covered
from head to toe with inflamed bites from bedbugs
in your straw mattress, and you start to scratch
madly. Wasting no more time in the inhospitable
Black Lobster, you make your way down the jetty to
the Belladonna, which you see is flying the skull and
crossbones — the flag of a pirate ship! Walking
cautiously up the gangplank, you step aboard the
ship (turn to 238).

252-255

252
Fortunately it is not your sword-hand which is
burnt. Lose 1 STAMINA point. You withdraw your
hand quickly and decide what to do next, Will
you:

Take the golden skeleton

statuette? Turn to 386
Open the golden casket? Turn to 82
Leave the room by the door

Opposite? Turn to 3

253
With its powerful stare, the Phantom paralyses you
before making its escape down the tunnel. Lose 4
STAMINA points. By the time feeling has returned to
your limbs, the Phantom is well out of sight. Walk-
ing stiffly along the tunnel, you continue your
search. Turn to 190.

254
The arrow misses its target and the Pterodacty]
closes in to attack (turn to 363).

255
You utter the words of the spell (losing the sraMINA
point), but nothing happens, Unknown to you, the
golden rain has drained away all your magical pow-
ers. Now you must decide which door to open. If
you wish to open the Sun door, turn to 243. If you
wish to open the Moon door, turn to 273,

256-258

256
The parchment is inscribed with strange symbols
which you do not understand. If you are able to cast
a Read Symbols spell, turn to 208. If you cannot cast
this spell, turn to 147.

257

Quite unexpectedly, the wind starts to blow and the
sky grows dark. The wind becomes a howling gale
and whisks up the sand, making it almost imposs-
ible to see. You are stranded in the middle of a
sand-storm, Lose 2 STAMINA points and Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 129. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 385.

258

The Dark Disciple nearest to you spots your medal-
lion and says, ‘Step forward. It is an honour for you
to be sacrificed, The gift of your life will certainly
please Leesha.’ The three of them raise their arms
and start to chant, and you feel compelled to walk
up to the altar and lie down on the marble slab. If
you can and wish to cast a Creature Sleep spell, turn
to 195. Otherwise, turn to 392.

259-261

259
You stand back and take a running jump over the
pit. Roll two dice. If the total is the same as or less
than your SKILL, turn to 144. If the total is greater
than your skILL, turn to 122.

260
Finding nothing that you think might destroy the
Phantom, you reach for your trusty sword. Turn to
225.

261

As you step through the dust, your mind suddenly
fills with horrific images. You scream in terror, as
you think you see the whole room become engulfed
in flames. Your flesh appears to be burning and
death seems imminent. Your nightmare drags on
for several minutes, and you fall unconscious under
the strain. When you finally come to, you still feel
terrified and your hands are trembling. Some of
your courage is lost for ever. Lose 3 SKILL points,
Not daring to venture any further in the room, you
exit by the iron door. Back in the corridor, you
stagger towards the dancing lights. Turn to 339.
262-264

262
The corridor eventually opens into a dingy room in
which two Rat Men are busily chewing on the
carcass of a Goblin. On seeing you, they spring to
their feet and attack you with their swords.

SKILL STAMINA
First RAT MAN 5 4
Second RAT MAN 5 5

If you win, turn to 218.

263
The corridor runs straight, and you follow. it until
you reach a magnificent chair set against the left-
hand wall, carved in the shape of a Sphinx. If you
wish to rest in the chair, turn to 55. If you would
rather press on, turn to 202.

264
Yaztromo explains that his Fire Spell can be used to
either make a defensive wall around the caster, or
simply to ignite a torch or lantern with your finger-
tips. He tells you the incantation necessary to cast
the spell, and says that the energy lost when casting
the spell will vary according to the intensity of fire
required, but will use either 1 or 2 STAMINA points
each time. After noting down the spell and its
STAMINA Cost On your Adventure Sheet, return to 34-

265-267

265
You lift the lid of the chest and close your eyes as
quickly as you can. But you have already seen the
letter D written in gold dust on the bottom of the
chest. Lose 4 STAMINA points. If you have seen all
the letters D, E, A, T and H, tum to 148. If you have
not seen all of them, turn to 304.

266
The tentacles carry the two main nerves of the Sand
Snapper, which cannot function any longer, Its
hideous maw falls open and you are able to with-
draw your badly cutleg. Lose 4 STAMINA points and
1 SKILL point. After bandaging your leg with strips
of torn shirt, you limp off south (turn to 106).

267

You awake with a start when you hear a deep
humming coming from the corridor on the other
side of the golden rain. The sleep has refreshed you,
and you jump up feeling alert. Add 2 sTaAMINA
points. There is a door behind the drapes, but it is
lacked and there is no time to open it. If you wish
to hide behind the drapes, turn to 44. If you wish to
confront whoever is coming into the chamber, tum
to 227,

268
Although light shines through the open door, you
can see nothing beyond the doorway. If youcan and
wish to cast a Light spell, turn to 383. If you wish to
step slowly into total darkness, turn to 326.

269
As the liquid washes over your wounds, they heal
before your eyes. But although the magical healing
properties of the herbal liquid are strong, its recup-
erative powers are quite weak. Thus your sTAMINA
is increased by only 4 points. Nevertheless, you are
pleased to be healed, and walk back down the
corridor feeling confident. Turn to 364.

270-271

270
The Gnome shrieks in terror when his serpent pro-
tector is slain. In a frantic voice he begs you not to
harm him, If you talk to him, turn to 83. If you slay
him, turn to 61.

271

There is a solid oak door at the top of the steps. You
turn the handle and are surprised to find that it is
not locked, You are even more surprised that the
door opens out beyond the city wall into the Desert
of Skulls. The bright sunlight hurts your eyes after
the gloom of the dungeon catacombs. You look
down at the sand and see footsteps leading away
from the door around the city wall. If you wish to
follow the footsteps, turn to 394. If you would rather
walk back down the steps and head the opposite
way along the corridor, turn to 358.

272-273

272

On the third day you finally sight land, and the
current carries you towards the shore, Fortunately,
you are washed up on a sandy beach, but you
realize that you have drifted a long way south. It is
hot, and your mouth is parched. All you can see is
sand, and the desert landscape stretches as far as
the horizon. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to
78. If you are Unlucky, turn to 352.

273
The door opens into a narrow sloping corridor
which leads into another chamber. The walls are
covered with hieroglyphics, and there are three clay
pots standing on top of a stone table, Will you:

Lift the lid of the white pot? Turn to 14
Lift the lid of the black pot? Turn to 156
Lift the lid of the red pot? Turn to 183
Walk through the chamber to the

archway in the far wall? Turn to 20

FP

274
Two figures come into sight—a chill runs down your
spine. With armour hanging loosely on their yellow
bones, two Skeleton Warriors walk jerkily towards
you, armed with swords,

SKILL STAMINA
First SKELETON WARRIOR — 5 5
Second SKELETON WARRIOR »

Both Skeletons attack you at once. They will make a
separate attack on you in each Attack Round, but
you must choose which of the two you will fight
each time. Attack your chosen Skeleton as in a
normal battle. Against the other you will throw for
your Attack Strength in the normal way, but you
will not wound it if your Attack Strength is greater;
you must just count this as though you have de-
fended yourself against its blow. Of course, if its
Attack Strength is greater, it will wound you, If you
win, turn to 310,

275
You become slightly delirious in the desert heat,
because of mild sunstroke. Lose 1 SKILL point,
Nevertheless, you press steadily on south (turn to

164).

276
You place the key inside the lock and turn it to the
right. The lock clicks open and you are able to push
the door inwards. Turn to 88,

277-279

277
Nothing happens when you put the ring on your
finger, and you decide to leave it on. Will you:

Lift the lid of the black pot? Turn to 156
Lift the lid of the red pot? Turn to 183
Walk through the chamber to the
archway in the far wall? Turn to 20
278

The captain laughs and says, ‘Stranger, you are
telling the truth, but I fear you have a lot of explain-
ing to do.’ That evening, over dinner, you tell the
captain and his crew about your mission and its
importance. Obviously concerned with the im-
pending doom about to befall the good people of
Allansia, the captain offers to sail south to the
Desert of Skulls. Two days later the man-of-war
drops anchor and you are rowed ashore to a white
sandy beach. With your Provisions restored to pro-
vide for ten meals, courtesy of the ship’s cook, you
wave goodbye and set off on foot. All you can see is
sand, and the desert landscape stretches as far as
the horizon. If you wish to walk east inland, turn to
327. If you would rather walk south along the coast,
turn to 151.

279
You raise the war-hammer into the air and bring it
crashing down on top of the Dragon. It rebounds off
it, leaving the artefact completely unmarked. You
have chosen the wrong Dragon to destroy. You

280-281

feel suddenly very weak as an unseen evil force
tries to protect the artefact. Lose 1 skILt point and
2 STAMINA points, Which Dragon will you now
attempt to destroy?

The Bone Dragon? Turn to 362

The Silver Dragon? Turn to 231

The Crystal Dragon? Turn tog

The Gold Dragon? Turn to 247
280

Despite the Phantom’s powerful stare, you keep
control of your mind. With its arms outstretched,
the Phantom closes in to touch you, in order to
intensify its power. If you wish to fight the Phantom
with your sword, turn to 225. If you would rather
rummage quickly through your backpack for an
item to use against it, turn to 244.

281
You cup your hands together and say the words of
the Create Water spell. Water immediately fills your
hands, and you drink long and hard. Only when
you separate your hands does the water stop flow-
ing. Feeling refreshed, you set off in the direction of
the noonday sun (turn to 116).

Ae

282-284

282

You swing your sword towards Leesha, but it meets
an invisible barrier. Her sadistic laugh echoes
around the temple and you find yourself riveted to
the spot. Unable to move a muscle, you see a door
open in the wall behind the couch and a man walk
into the temple. His face is a manifestation of evil
and the sickening truth dawns on you that it is
Malbordus. His bony fingers search through your
belongings, taking what Dragon artefacts you have.
He then bows to Leesha and exits through the same
door, leaving you to your fate. There is nothing
you can do now to save the people of Allansia.
Malbordus will fly back to Darkwood Forest with his
Dragons, and chaos will consume the land. You
have failed in your mission.

283
Inside the wooden box you find a mirror and a
sealed clay pot. You place the mirror in your back-
pack and decide what to do with the clay pot, If you
wish to break it open, turn to 50. If you would rather
leave it inside the box, and continue your trek, turn

to 70.

284
The Dark Disciples believe your story, but say that
they cannot allow you to take the gift to Leesha
herself. They say they will take it to her on your
behalf, Deduct one item from your Equipment List.
As they begin to argue about which of them should

285-287

take the gift to Leesha, you slip past them and walk
towards the archway in the wall behind the altar.
Turn to 341,

285

Although the scrubland is quite barren, you are
surprised to see a patch of ground which is totally
black. There is a smell of decay in the air, which
appears to be coming from the black patch. Holding
your nose, you walk over to inspect the patch and
see that there is a bronze medallion lying in its
centre with the letter M etched deeply into it, Could
the medallion have been dropped accidentally by
Malbordus? If you wish to pick up the medallion,
furn to 226. If you would rather leave it where it is
lying and walk on south, turn to 159,

286

The chair starts to vibrate slightly and you get ready
to jump off it. But you feel a tingling sensation run
through your body, which is very soothing. After
five minutes of this gentle vibration, you reluctantly
leave the chair, The invigorating effect adds 4 points
to your STAMINA, With bounding strides you set off
once more, Turn to 202.

287
You prise open the chest and find a polished iron
helmet inside. If you wish to place the helmet on
your head, turn to 97. If you would rather leave it
and walk south along the corridor, turn to 140,
288-290

r, A man’s head suddenly appears from the pit, his
a 4 face a manifestation of evil, The ground below him
Sei rises up slowly until his feet are level with the floor
of the room. He walks slowly towards you, saying,
‘Give me the Dragons I seek.’ You shrink back,
uncertain of what terrible powers Malbordus might
possess, He suddenly claps his hands together and
a deafening thunderbolt shatters the silence of the
room. Cracks appear in the floor and walls, and the
pain in your ears is unbearable. If you are wearing
4 copper ring, turn to 334. If you are not wearing a
copper ring, turn to 351.

288
Vite sHatobeensT bribes ht cote
rm ah =

AANAR

>

¢€
=
ot

sa

ot ey |

.
5 vee

2
Although the heat is insufferable, your headscarf
protects you from sunstroke, and you press reso-
lutely on south (turn to 164).

290
You seize the silver rod and, to your immense relief,
the ceiling stops its descent. You wonder how to

a oe a open the door opposite the one through which you
rl as & = 7 Boare entered. If you have a crystal key or are able to cast
ur a : 24 an Open Door spell, turn to 178, If you do not

{ go 8 Possess a crystal key and are unable to cast the spell,
a > turn to 366.

291-293

291

As you walk through the shadow cast by the huge
idol, it suddenly starts to move. Its stone joints
grind and creak as it steps offits pedestal. The Stone
Golem lumbers towards you with its war-hammer
Taised.

STONE GOLEM SKILL 8
If you manage to defeat the Golem, turn to 172.

STAMINA 12

292
You manage to pull your hand out of the pot before
the claws can dig into your skin, You slam the lid
back on the pot, and decide what to do. Will you:

Lift the lid of the white pot? Turn to 14
Lift the lid of the red pot? Turn to 183
Walk through the chamber to the

archway in the far wall? Turn to 20

293
The scene of the battle gradually fades from view as
you drift away, clinging to the masthead. You drift
for two days and become very weak. Roll two dice
and deduct the total from your stamina. If you are
still alive, turn to 272,

294-296

294
The nearest Skeleton Man extends his free hand and
tells you to give him the tooth. If you wish to give it
to him, turn to 346. If you decide not to trust the
Skeleton Men and would rather fight them, turn to
211,

295
As you reach up to prise the grille from the wall, you
notice that it has been tampered with. Two of the
vertical bars and the joining horizontal bar have
been highlighted with white chalk to form a dis-
tinctive letter H in the centre of the grille. The
Messenger of Death has struck. Lose 4 STAMINA
points and 1 Luck point. You reach up into the
recess behind the grille, but find that it is merely an
air-vent, Cursing your bad luck, you walk on. Tum

to157.

296
If you wish to reply that you do like the artist's
work, turn to 181. If you wish to reply that you do
not like it at all, turn to 105.
297-299

297

You cup your hands together and say the words of
the Create Water spell. Water suddenly fills your
hands, and you gulp it down in long, delicious
mouthfuls. The afternoon sun continues to beat
down relentlessly, its intensity causing shimmering
waves of heat to rise from the parched sand. When
you have finally drunk your fill, you separate your
hands to stop the flow of water and press on across
the desert (turn to 24).

298

The door opens into a room which is completely
empty. There is a mosaic floor which has an abstract
pattern, except for the area in front of the doorin the
opposite wall, where there is the head of Medusa.
On the door there is a small box with a slot on its top.
You walk up to the door, turn the handle and find
that it is unlocked. If you wish to put a Gold Piece
into the box before stepping through the doorway,
turn to 214. If you would rather walk through
without making a donation, turn to 268,

299

The Eye Stinger floats over your thrusting sword
and brushes your face with its deadly spines. All
your muscles suddenly tighten as its petrifying
poison races through your veins. Later that day the
Serpent Guards will take you away to join the other
gargoyles on top of the city walls. Your adventure
ends here,

300-301

oe. 300

‘Well done,’ continues the talking head. ‘You have
answered correctly.’ Red smoke starts to pour from
its mouth and swirl around your face. When it
finally drifts away, the bronze head is still and
silent, You are left feeling powerful and as though
destiny is with you. Add 2 sKILt points and 2 Luck
points. With renewed enthusiasm, you walk out of
the room and up the corridor. Turn to 17.

301
Yaztromo explains that his Jump spell will enable
you to jump over walls or across pits at will. He tells
you the incantation necessary to cast the spell and
says that the energy required to use the spell drains
3 STAMINA points each time it is used. After noting
down the spell and its stamina cost on your Adven-
ture Sheet, return to 34,

6

. ¢ 7 - ee ————
SSS Se eRe

WAS int
0 i
VAN

‘ Ay ve

302-304

302
The carving is very intricate and must have taken
months to complete. You look at the buildings and
suddenly notice that there is a hairline crack run-
ning at roof-level. You find that one of the roofs lifts
up and the inside of the building has been hollowed
out. Your luck is in, for inside the building is a small
Dragon carved out of ebony. Add 1 Luck point for
discovering a Dragon artefact. You smile to yourself
and slip it into your pocket before opening the door
in the wall opposite. Turn to 93.

Half an hour later, you see a low brown tent which
you recognize as the type used by desert nomads. A
horse is tethered to one of the tent-pegs. If you wish
to make contact with the nomad, turn to 196. If you
would rather head south to avoid the nomad, turn

to 389.

304
You curse the Messenger of Death, but sense that
you have survived its evil game. Witha sudden rush
of determination, you run through the doorway
after Leesha. Turn to 137.
305-306

395

Up ahead in the sky, you see something flying
towards you. As it gets closer, you see that it is a
creature with the body ofa large bird of prey, but the
upper torso of a woman. It begins to emit a piercing
shriek, which you instantly recognize. You franti-
cally plug your ears with cloth that you rip from
your shirt, so as not to hear the mesmerizing call of
the dreaded Harpy. If you can and wish to cast a
Magic Arrow spell, turn to 184. Otherwise you must
fight the Harpy with your sword (turn to 75).

306

You roll the dying man over and see that he has not
long to live. Being a valiant warrior, he wanted to
keep fighting to the end, You ask him why he is
here, for he clearly looks like an outsider. In an
almost inaudible whisper he replies, ‘The golden
skeleton . . . it's here somewhere . . . beware the
shadow of the stone . . .' Then he falls silent and
still. You place his sword in his hand, as he would
have wanted, and continue along the corridor. It
soon turns right again and you reach an iron door in
the right-hand wall. In the distance you can see
glowing lights dancing about in the gloom of the
corridor. If you wish to open the iron door, turn to
153. If you wish to investigate the moving lights,
turn to 339.

. rs

307-308

397
The door opens and you walk into a room filled with
treasure. There are chalices, statuettes, chests filled
with gems, caskets and hundreds of fabulous arte-
facts, Will you:

Help yourself to some of the

gems? Turn to 143
Take the golden skeleton
statuette? Turn to 386
Open the golden casket? Turn to 82
Leave the room by the door
opposite? Turn to 3
308

As the ship starts to sink, all the cannon crew run
towards the wooden steps that lead to the upper
deck. You are one of the first to reach the steps and
manage to get on deck just as the ship goes under-
water. If you wish to grab a piece of the masthead
and drift away from the man-of-war, turn to 293. If
you wish to swim towards the man-of-war, turn to
230.

309-312

309
As you sling your backpack off your shoulders,
another bolt of light shoots out from the rod. Test
your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 145. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 121.

310
You take a shield from one of the broken Skeletons
and sling it over your arm. Add 1 $xkiLL point. The
corridor finally ends at a wooden door which is
firmly locked. If you can and wish to cast an Open
Door spell, turn to 114. If you have aniron key, tum
to 276. If you have no means of opening the door,
turn to 399.

311
You draw your sword and try to help the eagle in its
desperate fight. But the Pterodactyl stays out of
reach and you are unable to influence the outcome
of the bloody battle of beaks and talons. Resolve the
battle between the eagle and the Pterodactyl.

SKILL STAMINA
GIANT EAGLE 6 11
PTERODACTYL 7 g
If the eagle wins the aerial battle, turn to 242. If the
Pterodactyl wins, turn to 48.

312
With no defence against the relentless battering
from the Wind Elemental, you are beaten to a
bloody pulp. Your adventure ends here.

313
You suddenly remember that a single glance from
the piercing eyes of the Basilisk is enough to kill
you. If you possess a mirror, turn to 357. If you do
not possess a mirror and are able to cast a Fire spell,
turn to 189. If you are unable to do either, turn to

134.

You push on the iron door and it swings slowly
inwards. You enter a cold room with a high vaulted
ceiling. The room is featureless, and Leesha is no-
where to be seen, There is, however, a circular pitin
the middle of the room. Sensing that time is short,
you decide to check your possessions. If you have
collected five Dragon artefacts, turn to 35. If you
have not found all five of the Dragon artefacts, turn
to 160.

315
You soon arrive at a T-junction. Looking right you
see that the floor is covered with broken glass, and
SO you turn left into the new corridor. Turn to 49.
snes eek
“ter us .;

5 4
“rr

~~ ‘
*,65¢ . -
ten ee
; ‘
‘ : ' é
sy “ J
Ke
»? °
é Pa
“s- ~
4
r
-
.
- oo

~~
-
-

4

és

316-318

316

You soon discover that the smoke is rising from the
burning roof of a wooden hut. Two Dark Elves in
their familiar black, hooded cloaks are firing flaming
arrows at the hut. Suddenly a man appears at the
door, forced out by the choking smoke. Armed with
a sword and a shield, you watch him run towards
his attackers. Before you can help, he is cut down by
two arrows. The Dark Elves step out from behind
cover and walk towards their dead victim. If you
wish to attack the Dark Elves, turn to 113. If you
would rather not get involved and head south, tum
to 285,

347

The Phantom snatches the charm out of the air and
crushes it into dust. Laughing at your pathetic
attempt to destroy it, the Phantom grabs your arm
with its free hand and you are instantly paralysed.
Lose 4 STAMINA points. By the time feeling has
returned to your limbs, the Phantom is well out of
sight. Walking stiffly along the tunnel, you continue
your search, Turn to 190.

318
As soon as you touch the monkey’s paw, its fingers
twitch and with a will of its own, it tries to grasp
your hand. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to
292. If you are Unlucky, turn to 222.
319-322

319
You toss the Pearl at the large eye of the vile crea-
ture, but it merely bounces off and falls down a
crack in the stone floor. In haste, you draw your
sword. Turn to 236.

320
The corridor ends at a flight of steps. If you wish to
climb up the steps, turn to 271. If you would rather
walk back and head the opposite way along the
corridor, turn to 358.

321
You tell the Gnome that you do not owna telescope.
Disappointed by your reply, he rubs his chin and
says, ‘Well, you see, I really like brass, so if you
have anything made of brass, I'll gladly give you a
magical armband that will give strength to your
sword-arm in battle.’ If you own a brass handbell
and wish to trade it, turn to 69. Otherwise you will
not be able to barter with the Gnome and will have
to climb down the ladder and walk back down the
corridor past the Jast junction. Turn to 262.

322
After uttering the spell (deduct 2 STAMINA points),
you hear the lock click open. Holding on to the hilt
of your sword, you open the door, Turn to 98.

323-326

323
You drop the burning medallion on to the sand and
see a large and painful letter M branded on to the
palm of your hand. Unfortunately it is your sword-
hand. Lose 2 skILt points and 1 staMINa point,
Realizing that Malbordus must be ahead of you, you
continue south as quickly as possible (turn to 159).

324
The artefact looks harmless lying on the floor, but
you suspect that destroying it will not be an easy
matter. If you are carrying a war-hammer, turn to
279. If you do not have this weapon, turn to 193.

325
Luckily you find toe-holds and hand-holds which
have been hacked out of the pit wall, and you are
able to climb painfully out. Not daring to rest, you
press on down the corridor. Turn to 152.

326

Your hands touch rough stone on either side of you,
and you realize that you are ina corridor. Your heart
thumps as you make your way slowly down the
corridor. But what you are unable to see is a sharp
blade which is set between the walls, less than a
metre from the ground. It cuts painfully into your
shin, and as you feel the blood start to run down
your leg, you start to panic. Lose 2 STAMINA points
and 1 LUCK point. Eager to escape from the black
corridor, you run along it, bumping into a door at
the far end. Turn to 79.

327-329

327

As you walk steadily east, you are suddenly aware
of a buzzing sound overhead. You look up and see
three giant wasp-like insects hovering above your
head. Suddenly one of the three Needle Flies dives
down at you. If you wish to cast a Magic Arrow
spell, turn to 118. If you wish to fight the giant
insects with your sword, turn to 28,

328
The man hears you close the door and advances
towards you to attack you with his branding iron.

TORTURER SKILL8 STAMINA 8

If you win, turn to 141.

329
Poking your head through the hole in the ceiling,
you see a small, cluttered room lit by a single candle
resting on top ofa table. Crouched in a corner of the
room is a sinewy little man wearing ragged sack-
cloth. On seeing you, he snatches a wooden pole off
the floor, Will you:

Talk to him? Turn to 83
Attack him with your sword? Turn to 240
Climb down the ladder and walk

back past the junction? Turn to 262
330~332

330
The corridor ends at a T-junction; patterned drapes
hang down from ceiling to floor on the far wall. Will
you:

Pull back the drapes? Turn to 170
Turn left along the corridor? Turn to 335
Turn right along the corridor? Turn to 162

334
You run forward to stab the Night Horror with the
long tooth, but it is broken into tiny pieces by
another bolt from the rod. You have no choice but to
attack it with your sword, Turn to 85.

332

The old man hobbles ahead of you along the street
and stops in front of a dilapidated house. He knocks
loudly on the door three times with his stick. Sud-
denly the door flies open and two rough-looking
men run out brandishing cudgels. You hardly have
time to draw your sword before being set upon by
the robbers. Fight them one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
First ROBBER s 7
Second ROBBER 7 7

If you win, turn to 8g.

333-336

333
As you walk along the corridor, you suddenly be-
come aware of the sound of footsteps marching
towards you, If you wish tosee whois coming down
the corridor, turn to 274. If you would rather turn
back and hurry down the corridor straight past the
last junction, turn to 250,

334
The ring you found in the pot is a ring of protection.
The pain in your ears quickly fades away and you
are able to draw your faithful sword to fight a last
desperate battle. Turn to 380,

335
The bare corridor turns sharply right. After ten
metres you see an alcove in the left-hand wall. A
trickle of water drips from a bronze cherub's mouth
into a bow! at its feet. If you wish to drink the water,
turn to 4. If you would rather continue walking
along the corridor, turn to 370.

336
[f you wish to cast an Open Door spell, turn to 369. If
you wish to hack the lock open with your sword,
turn to 68.
337
If the birds had been any lower in the sky, you
would have recognized them as vultures. Waiting
for another victim to fall dead by the side of the
poisoned water-hole, they circle watchfully in the
sky. Once again their patience has been rewarded.

338
Your sword-hand is badly burnt and some of your
dexterity in combat will be lost. Lose 1 STAMINA
point and 2 SKILL points. You withdraw your hand
quickly and decide what to do next. Will you:

Take the golden skeleton

statuette? Turn to 386
Open the golden casket? Turn to 82
Leave the room by the door

opposite? Turn to3

339-349

339
As you move closer to the glowing lights, you

realize that they are starting to move towards you.
Three giant bugs with wings buzz loudly and close
in to attack. Fight the Giant Fireflies one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
First GIANT FIREFLY 5 4
Second GIANT FIREFLY 5 5
Third GIANT FIREFLY 4 6

Each time a Firefly wins an Attack Round, roll one
die. If the number rolled is 1, 2 or 3, the Firefly will
discharge electricity and you will lose an additional
2 STAMINA points. If the number rolled is 4, 5 or 6,
the Firefly will not discharge electricity. If you win,
turn to 38.

Running along the corridor, you see an iron grille
high up in the right-hand wall. If you wish to prise it
open with your sword, turn to 295. If you would
rather walk on, turn to 157.
341-342

341
The archway has an elaborate surround of carved
stone. You look through the archway into a corridor
and see what looks like a shimmering gold curtain at
the far end. Mounted along the walls are swords
gripped by stone hands. Holding your sword
tightly, you step warily along the corridor. As soon
as you reach the first sword, its stone arm jerks into
life and attacks you, while the other three cut
through the air, awaiting their turn.

SKILL STAMINA
First SWORD 6 4
Second SWORD 6 4
Third SWORD 6 4
Fourth SWORD 6 4

If you win, turn to 191.

Yaztromo explains that his Detect Trap spell will
forewarn you of any dangerous trap which might be
laid before you, although you will still have to
overcome the problem using your own initiative.
He tells you the incantation necessary to cast the
spell and says that each time you use it, you will
drain 2 STAMINA points of energy. After noting
down the spell and its sramMINa cost on your Adven-
ture Sheet, return to 34.
343-345

343
There is a sudden blinding flash as the rod backfires
and shoots out an arc of light into your stomach.
Lose 2 SKILL points and 4 STAMINA points. If you
survive the blast, turn to 169.

The corridor turns right, and around the corner you
see a man lying face down on the stone floor. He is
wearing bloodstained armour, and his sword lies a
metre away. He grunts on hearing your footsteps,
and tries to reach for his sword. Will you:

Run him through with your sword? Turn to 101

Kick his sword away and try to
talk to him? Turn to 306
Step over him and walk on? Turn to 80

345
You cup your hands together and chant the spell.
Water fills your hands and you gulp it down. When
you have drunk all you want, you separate your
hands and press on south. Turn to 377.

———_s- — oo

346-348

346
The Skeleton Man takes the tooth and suddenly
hurls it to the floor, smashing it into tiny pieces.
Their expressionless faces seem somehow relieved,
and you wonder what mistake you have made.
With their spears at the ready, they advance to-
wards you.

SKILL STAMINA
First SKELETON MAN 9 6
Second SKELETON MAN ) 8

Fight them one ata time. If you win, turn to 96.

347
The tunnel eventually comes to a dead end, A

solitary candle burns in an alcove and you see
something glistening behind it. If you wish to reach
into the alcove, turn to 212. If you would rather go
back down the corridor and turn right along the
other branch of the tunnel, turn to 59.

3
You reach the bottom of the staircase and step
warily along the floor with your arms stretched out
in front of you. Suddenly you hear a plopping noise
which sounds like a dollop of mud dropping on to
the floor. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 57.
If you are Unlucky, turn to 176.

3497352

349

After untying the cord, you slowly pull open the
cotton sack. Inside you find a glass ball, inside
which a tiny man with pointed ears and wings,
wearing a pea-green costume, is jumping up and
down in a joyous frenzy. You cannot hear his voice
through the glass, but you realize that the Sprite
wants to escape. If you wish to release the Sprite,
turn to 234. If you would rather leave the Sprite in
his glass prison and continue south, turn to 39.

359

The Phantom cringes on seeing the silver and tries
to run away. But your aim is true and the silver
button finds its mark. The Phantom drops to the
floor and within seconds is no more than dust
spread among the folds of its cloak. Add 1 Luck
point. With renewed spirit, you set off down the
tunnel. Turn to 190,

351
You cover your ears, but you cannot stop the pain.
You reel about, completely disorientated, and un-
able to keep your balance. Lose 3 SKILL points.
Despite your disadvantage, you draw your faithful
sword to fight a last desperate battle. Turn to 103.

352-353

352
Walking along the beach, you find a cluster of palm
trees, but no coconuts are growing on them. You
look around and decide which way to head. If you
wish to walk east inland, turn to 327. If you would
rather walk south along the coast, turn to 151.

353
You follow the corridor until it turns sharply left. On

turning the corner, you see that the floor is covered
with broken glass. As you pick your way through
the glass, a shadowy figure suddenly appears in the
corridor ahead. You hear a shriek of Jaughter as a
bottle is hurled at you. It shatters on the stone floor
at your feet to reveal a piece of rolled-up parchment
lying among the broken glass. If you wish to read
what is on the parchment, turn to 256. If you would
rather chase after whoever threw the bottle at you,
turn to 77.
354-356

Although the golden rain feels wet on your skin,
you remain completely dry. You step into a luxuri-
ous chamber whose walls are decorated with frescos
and paintings, The flooris made of polished marble,
and on it stand several low tables; cushions are
scattered around the shining floor. A huge bare-
chested man with a bald head, clad in baggy silk
pants, is standing with his feet apart at the far end of
the room. His hands are resting on the hilt of a
curved sword. On seeing you, he immediately
strides forward to attack. He is a Slave Guard of the
outer temple.

SLAVE GUARD SKILL 8 STAMINA 8

If you win, turn to 235.

Votes

} FOO) Cx) |

355
Without a supply of vital water, you grow steadily

weaker; lose 1 SKILL point and 4 STAMINA points.
You grit your teeth and stagger on in the direction of
the noonday sun (turn to 116),

356
Your frenzied dive through the doorway is not
quick enough to prevent your lower torso from
being crushed by the stone ceiling. There is a sicken-
ing crunch of bone as the ceiling meets the floor.
Your adventure ends here.

357-360

357
With your eyes shut, you hold out the mirror at
arm’s length. You have discovered its only weak-
ness: the Basilisk perishes by the strength of its own
reflection. Hardly daring to look at the dead Basil-
isk, you hurry on south as fast as you can (turn to
108.

358
You come across a bowl on a marble column. The
bowl is filled with grapes which look fresh and
juicy. If you wish to eat the grapes, turn to 112. If
you would rather continue without eating, turn to

237.

359
You run away from the beach as fast as you can, but
are unable to escape from the Shell Monster, You
fall over in the sand and wave after wave of flying
shells lash your body. Slowly you lose conscious-
ness and your adventure ends on the edge of the
Desert of Skulls.

360
The chair suddenly heats up and you find yourself
sitting on stone which feels near-molten in tempera-
ture. Roll one die and deduct the total from your
STAMINA. If you are still alive, you leap out of
the chair and stagger on down the corridor. Turn
to 202.

363-364

361
As soonas you reveal the Onyx Egg, the Eye Stinger
becomes motionless and closes its central eye. You
seize your opportunity and run past the Eye Stin-
ger, holding up the Onyx Egg to protect you. Turn
to 340.

362

You raise the war-hammer into the air and bring it
crashing down on top of the Bone Dragon. The
artefact splinters into tiny fragments and you allow
yourself a smile of satisfaction, You raise the war-
hammer a second time, but suddenly hear the
sound of thunder coming from the depths of the pit.
Turn to 288.

363
You draw your sword and try to cut down the
eagle's fearsome attacker. But the Pterodactyl stays
out of your reach and you are unable to help in the
battle between the two flying creatures. Resolve the
battle between the eagle and the Pterodactyl.

SKILL STAMINA
GIANT EAGLE 6 11
PTERODACTYL 8 9

If the eagle wins the aerial battle, turn to 242. If the
Pterodactyl wins, turn to 48.

364
Passing by the Sphinx chair and the tapestries, you
walk straight on past the junction in the corridor to
look at the murals. Turn to 161,

-
%

i >, “™..
o ie

awe

365-367

365

You enter a dust-filled room, which has dried blood
smeared all over its walls. There is a bucket hanging
down from the ceiling on a rope just above your
head. In the wall opposite you there is another door,
and in the wall to the left there is a low arch from
which you can hear the sound of scratching. A
huge, black insect’s head suddenly appears out of
the dark hole, followed by a long and many-legged
body. The Giant Centipede rushes from its lair to
bite you,

GIANT CENTIPEDE SKILL 9 STAMINA 7
If you win, turn to 393.

366

You examine the silver rod, hoping to find out how
it can be activated to fire a bolt of light. You notice
two tiny raised circles on the surface of the rod, and
realize that one must be its firing-button. You point
the rod at the door and decide which circle to press.
[f you press the circle on the left of the rod, turn to
343. If you press the circle on the right, turn to 167,

367

Yaztromo explains that his Create Water spell will
fill your hands with drinking water each time you
cup them together. He tells you the incantation
necessary to cast the spell and says that, curiously,
this spell requires no energy at all to cast. After
noting down the spell on your Adventure Sheet,
return to 34.
368-372

368
The crossbow bolt sinks deep into your throat. You
gasp for air, but your frantic efforts are useless. Your
adventure ends here.

369
You utter the words of the spell (reducing your
STAMINA by 2 points), but nothing happens. Un-
known to you, the golden rain has drained away all
your magic powers, Lose 1 LUCK point. You have no
choice but to hack the lock open with your sword.
Turn to 68.

370
The corridor turns sharply to the right again and

soon you arrive at another T-junction. The corridor
is bare and uninteresting straight ahead, so you
decide to turn left. Turn to 46.

372
You utter the words of the spell (lose 1 STAMINA
point), but nothing happens. Unknown to you, the
golden rain has drained away all your magical
powers. The nearest Skeleton Man lunges at you
with his spear and you have no option but to fight.
Turn to 211.

372
You cup your hands together and chant the Create
Water spell. Water suddenly fills your hands and
you gulp it down in long, delicious mouthfuls. The
afternoon sun continues to beat relentlessly down,

373-375

its intensity causing shimmering waves of heat to
rise from the parched sand. You separate your
hands to halt the flow of water, and you press on
across the desert (turn to 303).

373
The serpent’s poison is deadly. It only takes one bite
to end your life. Your eyes close for the last time as
the serpent stiffens to become a snake staff again.

374
The chanting seems to grow louder, and you cannot

stop yourself from slowly walking towards the altar.
You lie down on the cool marble top and are aware
of the Dark Disciples surrounding you. You hear
one of them say that it is midnight and then you are
dimly aware of another pulling a dagger from his
belt. Your last vision is of the dagger plunging into
your chest. Your adventure ends here.

375
As you pull away the rock, a scorpion runs out from

the shadow of its dark crevice and stings you on the
back on the hand. Lose 4sTaMINA points. If you are
still alive, turn to 155.
376-377

376

The corridor bends to the right, and you follow it
round until you arrive outside a closed door. You
can hear agonized cries and a sadistic chuckle com-
ing from inside the room. If you wish to turn the
handle and push the door open, turn to 206. If you
would rather ignore the cries and keep on walking,
turn to 66.

Sg OSS oS? .§ £&
Sneaeo aed Sa = eto,” rors Walking steadily south, you are unaware of the
Zi os unseen danger in front of you. Your right foot sinks
into the sand and you feel a sharp pain as something
begins to tear at the flesh on your leg. You stab your
sword into the sand as a Sand Snapper tries to
overcome you, It shudders, and the sand is shaken
off its brown body to reveal its gaping maw, cram-
med with cutting teeth. It is impossible to penetrate
the thick scales covering its hide. Some of the scales
are suddenly pushed apart by two long tentacles
which try to grab you and pull you into the Sand
Snapper’s mouth. Ignoring the pain in your leg, you
begin to hack at the tough tentacles,

SKILL STAMINA
First TENTACLE 7 7
Second TENTACLE 7 7

If either of the two tentacles wins two consecutive
Attack Rounds during the combat, turn to 149. If
you manage to cut off both tentacles, turn to 266.

ve Fr

378
You peer into the gloom of the Death Dep,’s lair and

see that a dark tunnel stretches into the distance. If

you wish to craw! down the tunnel, turn to 95. If you
would rather leave the room and continue walking
up the corridor, turn to 344.

nb pe comuqor’ pany so 244-

MOM LOLICE JGCIAG {IG tous UEC] Gorsgtarers eareppessehe

AOE AAUP! FC2 GEA Cyeerenas ppie pstazazey® cities pO Oe (y AC
1GG (JO OB CUR CMMUG] VPC IGGe rere EpsO cpIreEUTISH: Tt

yee Beau. 150 gue RLOOW OL LG FEULY FHOE_e JVM YG

3)0
You peer into the gloom of the Death Dog’s lair and

see that a dark tunnel stretches into the distance. If
you wish to craw! down the tunnel, turn to 95. If you
would rather leave the room and continue walking

up the corridor, turn to 344.

379

Looking up, you see a road sign indicating that you
are in Clog Street. You walk down itall the way until
it ends at a T-junction where it meets Harbour
Street, which runs parallel to the shore. You look
out to sea and watch the setting sun sink slowly
beneath the horizon. Darkness envelops you and
you wonder where to go next. At the end of the
street to your left there are lights shining in win-
dows, and you can just hear the sound of singing
and laughter. You decide to head towards the lights
and soon find yourself outside the Black Lobster
tavern. You walk through the doorway into a
smoke-filled room where seedy-looking characters
sit at crowded tables, laughing, joking and singing.
You walk straight up to the barman and ask if he has
a room for rent. Luckily there is one available. You
pay him 1 Gold Piece for the room and ask if he
knows of any ships which may be sailing south the
next morning. ‘] might do,’ he replies somewhat
cagily, ‘but information does not come free in Port
Blacksand. Another Gold Picce and Pll introduce
you to the ship’s mate.” Once again you reach into
your pocket and pay the barman. He leads you over

to one of the booths along the far wall of the tavern

ae
wore aw

5

and pointe out o mon with « wilk scarf tlecl cower hia
bald head, anct an UpBly SOOr reigns: dows From hin

left ear to the middle of his chin. ‘Gargois his name,’
says the barman. You sit down next to Gargo,
introduce yourself and ask if you can buy your
passage south. ‘Ten Gold Pieces, and you'll have to
bsaas86 cong 1 6u @oyg [ecee* suq Lon. UaAc 60
WsThocrtces Aorstsmye werscy wep re Acorr cers parrA Acorse
soe FRO pyulivve AGM BIF GOomu Wert [oO COvwro

JCLE Fs, FD EET Terry eyes My pst Gpreze* (Ceexbites re pare cavesrze*
Peldq VEC? Ge oy meyA 2C9r Lee qorar (hous Erte

CDUGL POMDUCS COLE OL LIUCLEL WWYCLE O SUIK CHIT ICC OVCT 113
bald head, and an ugly scar running down from his

left ear to the middle of his chin. ‘Gargois his name,’
says the barman. You sit down next to Gargo,
introduce yourself and ask if you can buy your
passage south. ‘Ten Gold Pieces, and you'll have to

work for your food,’ comes the curt reply. Gargo
does not look like a man to bargain with, so you
agree to his price and pay. ‘We set sail one hour after
sunrise. The name of the ship is the Belladonna and
you'll find her at the end of the jetty leading down
from the tavern, I'll see you in the morning; I’m
going back to the ship now,’ says Gargo. You decide
not to get involved with any of the tavern’s charac-
ters, but to retire to your room, You stand up and
walk towards the stairs, but a large man carrying
three flasks of ale bumps into you, spilling the
drinks on the floor. If you wish to offer to buy him
more ale, turn to 124. If you would rather tell him
not to be so clumsy, turn to 203.

380
Malbordus realizes that you are invulnerable to his
magic powers and draws his cursed sword to attack
you,
MALBORDUS SKILL 10

if you win, turn to goo.

STAMINA 18

382
You walk under the raised war-hammer of the idol
towards the tunnel entrance (turn to 74).

378-379

378
You peer into the gloom of the Death Dog’s lair and
see that a dark tunnel stretches into the distance. If
you wish to crawl down the tunnel, turn to 95. If you
would rather leave the room and continue walking
up the corridor, turn to 344.

379
Looking up, you see a road sign indicating that you
arein Clog Street. You walk down it all the way until
it ends at a T-junction where it meets Harbour
Street, which runs parallel to the shore. You look
out to sea and watch the setting sun sink slowly
beneath the horizon. Darkness envelops you and
you wonder where to go next. At the end of the
street to your left there are lights shining in win-
dows, and you can just hear the sound of singing
and laughter. You decide to head towards the lights
and soon find yourself outside the Black Lobster
tavern. You walk through the doorway into a
smoke-filled room where seedy-looking characters
sit at crowded tables, laughing, joking and singing.
You walk straight up to the barman and ask if he has
@ room for rent. Luckily there is one available. You
pay him 1 Gold Piece for the room and ask if he
knows of any ships which may be sailing south the
next morning. ‘I might do,” he replies somewhat
cagily, ‘but information does not come free in Port
Blacksand. Another Gold Piece and I'll introduce
you to the ship’s mate.’ Once again you reach into
your pocket and pay the barman. He leads you over
to one of the booths along the far wall of the tavern

380-381

and points out a man with a silk scarf tied over his
bald head, and an ugly scar running down from his
left ear to the middle of his chin. ‘Gargois his name,’
says the barman. You sit down next to Gargo,
introduce yourself and ask if you can buy your
passage south. “Ten Gold Pieces, and you'll have to
work for your food,’ comes the curt reply. Gargo
does not look like a man to bargain with, so you
agree to his price and pay. ‘We set sail one hour after
sunrise. The name of the ship is the Belladonna and
you'll find her at the end of the jetty leading down
from the tavern. I'll see you in the morning; I’m
going back to the ship now,’ says Gargo. You decide
not to get involved with any of the tavern’s charac-
ters, but to retire to your room. You stand up and
walk towards the stairs, but a large man carrying
three flasks of ale bumps into you, spilling the
drinks on the floor. If you wish to offer to buy him
more ale, turn to 124. If you would rather tell him
not to be so clumsy, turn to 203.

380
Malbordus realizes that you are invulnerable to his
magic powers and drawss his cursed sword to attack
you.

MALBORDUS SKILL 10

If you win, turn to goo.

STAMINA 18

You walk under the raised war-hammer of the idol
towards the tunnel entrance (turn to 74).

382-385

382
The door is firmly shut and will not open. If you can
and wish to cast an Open Door spell, turn to 248. If
you are unable to or do not wish to cast this spell,
turn to 210.

383

Once you have uttered the words of the spell (de-
duct 2 STAMINA points), the corridor beyond the
doorway is suddenly illuminated by bright light.
But you have fallen into the hands of the Messenger
of Death. A large letter A is painted on the door at
the end of the corridor and you cannot avoid seeing
it. Lose 4 STAMINA points as a result of the shock.
The only consolation you have is that you see a
blade which is set between the walls at knee height,
and you are able to step over it without injury.
Cursing your bad luck, you open the door at the end
of the corridor, Turn to 79.

384
You are now wearing an Armband of Strength. Add

1 SKILL point. You climb back down the ladder and
walk back past the last junction. Turn to 262.

The sand-storm takes a long time to die down and
you lose a great deal of strength trying to protect
yourself, Lose 1 skrLL point. Eventually the wind
dies away. You brush yourself down and press on
east (turn to 26).

386-388

386
The statuette is heavy in your hand and is worth an
unbelievable fortune. If you succeed in your mis-
sion, you will have been more than amply re-
warded, Add 1 Luck point. You place the statuette
in your backpack and decide what to do next. Will
you:

Help yourelf to some of the

gems? Turn to 143
Open the golden casket? Turn to 82
Leave the room by the door

opposite? Turn to3

387
Looking for a likely object with which to defeat the
Eye Stinger, you must make a quick decision. Will
you take:

A Mirror? Turn to 65

A Pearl? Turn to 319

An Onyx Ege? Turn to 362

None of these? Turn to 200
388

Sensing sudden danger, you utter the words of the
spell (deduct 2 STAMINA points). A magical aura
illuminates a crossbow that is mounted on the wall
and a tripwire which is laid two metres in front of it-
You climb over the wire without triggering it, and
squeeze past the crossbow. The tunnel finally opens
out into a dusty room lit by torches set in the wall.
Turn to 43.

be
> ;

en me eoee Ome, -

Lge
D4 A =

OG by
“Wh

- 4 *
®

359-399

389

Not long after the tent is out of sight, you begin to
feel a slight tremor in the ground beneath your feet.
Suddenly the sand starts to shift before you. It rises
into the air and then falls down in a great cascade to
expose the long body of a huge worm. You realize
with horror that a Giant Sandworm is about to
engulf you with its spiked oval mouth, It is at least
twenty metres long and you must fight it.

GIANTSANDWORM _ skILLio STAMINA20

If you win, turn to 18.

399

As the Night Horror drops to the ground, it releases
its grip on the silver rod. Suddenly there is a grating
noise above you. Out of the hands of its owner, the
rod has mysteriously triggered a mechanism in the
stone ceiling, which is lowering down towards you.
You frantically run to open one of the doors, but
both are firmly locked by some powerful magic, and
cannot be opened even by Yaztromo’s spell. Will
you:

Pick up the silver rod? Turn to 290
Try a crystal key in the door

(if you have one)? Turn to 150
Try to burn a hole in the door

with a Fire spell

(if you are able)? Turn to 239

391-393

391

Yaztromo explains that his Read Symbols spell will
allow the user to read any runes or magic symbols.
He tells you the incantation necessary to cast the
spell and says that virtually no energy is required to
cast it; only 1 STAMINA point is lost each time it is
used. Return to 34 after writing down the spell and
its STAMINA cost on your Adventure Sheet.

392
Not wishing to be a sacrificial victim, you concen-
trate on trying to blot out the chanting voices from
your mind. Roll two dice. If the total is the same as
or less than your SKILL, turn to 174. If the total is

greater than your SKILL, turn to 374. +
393

/f you wish to cut down the bucket from the ceiling,
furn to 60. Itvou would rather open the iron door in
the far wall, turn to 21.

394

394

The door slams shut behind you and you find that it
is firmly locked. You follow the footsteps around
the city wall for about fifteen minutes until you find
the man who made them. He is lying face down in
the sand and appears to have been dead forat least a
day. He looks like a servant and is certainly not
Malbordus. There is nothing on the man which can
help you, and so you run back to the oak door,
Because you have passed through the golden rain,
even your magic is useless against it, so you have to
try to open it by hacking furiously with your sword.
Suddenly a shadow passes overhead. You look up
to see what caused it. Riding through the sky on the
back of a huge, black Dragon is the man you came to
defeat ~ Malbordus. The Dragon roars and you can
just make out the wicked laugh of Malbordus. The
Dragon flies off north and there is nothing you can
do to stop it. Malbordus will lead his hordes of chaos
across Allansia, and the world will fall under a dark
shadow. You have failed in your mission.

395-396

395
It is so cold that you are hardly able to sleep at all
during the night. Lose 3 STAMINA points. You are
wide awake and thankful when the dawn sun rises
over the horizon to heat up the desert air. As soonas
itis light enough to see where you are walking, you
continue your trek to the south (turn to 72).

3
As you stab into the water, your bracelet is briefly
submerged. The tentacled monster is immediately
repelled by it and swims silently away to the
deepest part of its pool. You seize your chance,
climb up on to the ledge and escape down the
tunnel. Turn to 91.

397-399

397
Stairs lead down from the trapdoor into the gloom
below. There is a strong, musty smell rising out of
the gloom and the draught is cool on your face. You
walk down the rough staircase until you can see no
further. Will you:

Cast a Light spell? (if you are

able to)? Turn to 224
Walk further down into the

gloom? Turn to 348
Climb back up the steps and

open the other door? Turn to 307

398

In the middle of the night you are woken by the
sound of heavy footsteps stumping along the
ground. The moon is almost full and gives off
enough light for you to see a large shape looming
towards you. Grabbing your sword, you stand to
defend yourself against the Cave Troll who has
discovered you during its nocturnal hunt.

CAVE TROLL SKILL 8

If you win, you try to settle down again, but toss and
turn for the rest of the night. In the morning, you set
off again. Turn to 305.

STAMINAQ

399
Unable to open the door, you turn around and walk

back down the corridor and past the last junction.
Turn to 250.
400

400

Malbordus is killed and the remaining Dragon arte-
facts lie waiting to be destroyed. You bring the
war-hammer crashing down on them time and time
again, so that no man or being might ever again
have the opportunity of using their power. In time
the Dark Elves of Darkwood Forest will learn of their
leader’s defeat and will shrink back into the sha-
dows of the forest. Your ordeal inside the Temple of
Terror has saved Allansia. You will now be able to
journey proudly back to Stonebridge and return the
war-hammer to King Gillibran. No doubt Yaztromo
will teach you some more of his magic, and perhaps
you will have the chance to spend some of the riches
you have found.

