' FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS |

Over 12 million copies sold worldwide!

3 ACKSON
joLIVINGSTONE

A dangerous undercover mission on a wild
and lawless planet!

NOSNOVIFASLS

Corruption is rife in the Aleph Cygni system
and the flow of the illicit narcotic Satophil-d
from the spaceports of the planet Kether has
grown to enormous proportions. Several at-
tempts have been made to crack the notorious
drug rings of Kether, with no success, Now the
Galactic Federation has entrusted YOU with
this dangerous undercover mission. But will
YOU succeed?

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you need
to make your journey, YOU decide which way
to go, which dangers to risk and which enemies

to fight.

Cover illustration by Terry Oakes

FNOLSONIATI NVIGNY

JIYIIY JO ssunry sy L

Fi

{ ose te
vi O mest

I
PUFFIN BOOKS
‘THE RINGS OF KETHER

Commuption sien the Aleph Cygnisystem andthe flow of he
kc narcoie Stlophid om the spaceparts of the planet
Kether has grown fo enormovs propertion. Sever ates
‘have been made to crack the notarous drug ings of Ketter,
trth no sucess, Nove the hae pressed GalacieFederation has
Geniusted YOU with this extemely dangerous undercover
‘mission, YOU must find the source ofthe drug and bring all
those concerned to justice, But beware! Kether i wild and
layla place - and YOU are on your own.

“Two dice, pencil and an eraser ate all you need 1 embarkon
this thing futuristic adventre, complete with its elaborate
‘conn system and scone sheet to record your gains snd
losses.

Mony dangers lie ahead and your success Is by no means
cutain. Powerful adversates ae ranged against you and oten
your ony choices io ill orbe ke!

Fighting Famlasy Gamebooks

‘
1. THE WARLOCK OF ARETOr
MOUNTAIN
2 THE CITADEL.CFCIIADS
TE FOREST OF DOOM
4. STARSHIP TRAVELLER
§. CITY OF THIEVES
6 DEATHTRAP DUNGEON
7. ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING
4. SCORPION SWAMP
9. CAVERNS OF THE SNOW WITCTE
18. HUUSE OF HELL
Ll, TALEMAN OF DEATH
ID SPACE ASSASSIN
13. FREEWAY FICHTER
14 TEMPLE OF TERROR
1h THE RINGS OF KETHER
Ih SEAS OF BLOOD
17. APTOINTMENT WITH FE. A. RL
16 REBEL PLANET
19. DEMONS OF THE DEE
2. SWORD OF THE SAMURAL
2). TRIAL OF CHAMPIONS
22. ROKIT COMMANDO
0. MASKS OF MAYHEM
24. CREATURE OF HAVOC

Steve Jackson's SORCERY!
L THE SHAMUTANTI HILLS
2 KHARE-CITYRORT OF TRAPS

33. BENEATH NIGHIMARE CASTLE

CRYPT OF THE SORCERER

27. STAR STRIDER

TR PELANTOMS OF ITAR

29, MIDNIGHT ROGUE

3M. CHASMS OP MALICE

31. BATTLEDLADE WARRIOR

32. SLAVES OF THE ABYSS

2). SKY LORD

M, STEALER OF SOULS

35. DAGGERS OF DARKNESS

. ARMIES OF DEATH

37. PORTAL OF EVIL

7. VAULT OF THE VAMPIRE

7 FANGS OF FURY

4 DEAD OF NIGHT

41, MASTER OF CHAOS

+2 BLACK VEIN PROPHECY

43. THE KEE OF THE LICH-LORD

4. LEGEND OF THE SHADOW
WARKIDKS

45, SPECTRAL STALKERS

+. TOWER OF DESTRUCTION

47, THE CRIMSON TIDE

1. THE SEVEN SERPENTS
4. THE CROWN OF KINGS

FIGHTING FANTASY - The [ntrecertary fini-Playnng Gare
THE RIDDLING HEAVER - Four Orlling ofeerteres
THE TROLLTOOTH WARS - A Figirtieg Farteory Nuwel

Steve Jackson and Jan Livingstone
present;

DEMONSTEALER - A Fighting Factaer Novel

The Advanced Fighiling Fastaty Systex

OUT OF THE PIT: Fighting Fantasy Monscers

TITAN: The Fighting Fareasy Woeks

DUNGBEONEER © Aun Letroducturs to the Werld cof Role-Playing Games
BLACKSAND: Advarerd Pightizg Pareasy

Andrew Chapman

Illustrated by Nik Spender
Puffin Books

PUFFIN BOOKS

Published by the Penpwen Group
Pengues Hovks Lad, 27 Wrights Lane, London W4 STZ, England
Fenigam Rooks USA Inc., 395 Hockon Street, New York, New York 10014, USA
Penguin Books Auiraia Lid, Ringwood, Victoria, Australia
Penguin Books Canada Lid, |) Alcorn Avenue. Toronto, Oatario, Canada M4V 32
Penguin Books (NZ) Lid, 182-190 Wairau Raa Auckland 10, New Zealand

Penguin Books Lid, Registered Offices: Harmondsworth, Middlesea, Englund

First puttishel 1985
910

Concept copyright 1) Steve Jackios and fan Livingstone. 1995
Text Copyright 2) Andrew Chapman, 1935
MMusizations copynght a> Nik Spender, 198
All rights reserved

Printed mm England by Clays Lid, St tves ple
Filmset in 10613 pt Linoteon Puletino

Excepi in the United States of America, this book & sakd subject
to the condition thad it shail not, by way of trade or otherwise, be bent.
resold, hires out, or otberwia: careekited without the publisher's
fulee consent in any form of inding or cover other than thatin
which it is published and without a simitir cundition including this
condition being imposed on the subsequent parchaser

CONTENTS

YOUR MISSION
7

ADVENTURE SHEET
14

MISSION BRIEFING
16

THE RINGS OF KETHER
19
YOUR MISSION

You are a Narcotics Investigator for the Galactic
Federation. Recognized by your superiors as being
among the best in the field, you have been issued
with the latest in interstellar scout craft and dis-
patched, single-handed, to crack a suspected drug
ring in the Aleph Cygni star system,

Before you can begin, though, you must determine
your strengths and weaknesses. For this you will
require two dice and a pencil to record scores on the
Adventure Sheet on pages 14-15. As itis possible you
will not successfully complete your mission in your
first adventure, you may wish to take photocopies
of the Adventure Sheet for future adventures.

Your Ship

Roll one die. Add 6 to the result. Enter this total
under the WEAPONS STRENGTH section of the Adven-
ture Sheet. When firing at enemy spacecraft, you will
need to roll less than this to score a hit.

Roll one die, Enter this score in the sHIELDs section
of your Adventure Sheet, You will lose points from
this SHIELDS score whenever you are hit by fire from
enemy spacecraft. If your ship is hit when your
SHIELDS score is zero, your ship is destroyed.

Your Abilities

Your abilities to fight, withstand damage and
escape from tricky situations are determined by
your SKILL, STAMINA and LUCK. On your Adventure
Sheet you will see sections where these attributes are
to be recorded.

Roll one die. Add 6 to the result. Enter this total as
your SKILL score,

Roll two dice. Add 12 to the result. Enter this total as
your STAMINA score. If your STAMINA score ever
reaches zero, you have been killed.

Roll one die. Add 6 to the result, Enter this total as
your LUCK score.

Testing Your Luck

On occasion you will be called upon to Test your
Luck. When this occurs, roll two dice. If the result
equals or is less than your LUCK, you are successful. If
the result exceeds your LuCK, you are unsuccessful.
Each time you Test your Luck, reduce your Luck
score by 1 point,

Blaster Combat

Modern weapons being what they are, blaster
combat is fairly short and extremely deadly. It is
conducted as follows:

1. Roll two dice. If the result is higher than or equal to
your SKILL, you have missed. If the result is less
than your SKILL, you have hit your foe and in-
flicted damage on it - deduct 4 points from your
opponent's STAMINA.

2. If your opponent's stAMINA has reached zero
then your opponent has died.

3. If your opponent is still alive, then your fire will
be returned: roll two dice. If the result is higher
than or equal fo your opponent's SKILL, your
opponent has missed. If the result is less than
your opponent's SKILL, your opponent has hit
you — deducting 4 points from your STAMINA.

4. If you have not been killed, start a new combat
round by returning to step 1.

Note: If you are faced by more than one opponent,
you may select which one you will direct
fire against. They will al! return fire simul-
taneously (unless dead, of course).

Hand-to-hand Combat

Hand-to-hand combat is conducted just as in other
Fighting Fantasy books. If you are already familiar
with this system you can skip this part of the rules.
Otherwise:

1. Combat is simultaneous, Hand-to-hand fighting
is a series of clashes in which one combatant will
do damage to the other.

2. Roll two dice. Add your opponent's SKILL score
to the roll. The total is your opponent's Attack
Strength.

9
- Roll two dice again. Add your skILL score to the

roll. The total is your Attack Strength.

- Ifyour opponent's Attack Strength is higher than

yours, the opponent has inflicted damage on you
— deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA,

. If your Attack Strength is higher than your

opponent's, you have inflicted damage on your

opponent — deduct 2 points from your oppo-
nent's STAMINA.

- If the Attack Strengths are equal, both attacks

have missed. Start the next Attack Round from
Step 2 above.

Continue this combat until either your srAMINA
or your opponent's is reduced to zero (death).

Ship-to-ship Combat

— are two modes of attack in ship-to-ship com-
at:

1,

2.

10

Phasers: Whenever a ship is hit by phasers it will
lose 1 point from its SHIELDS.

Smart Missiles: Only your ship is equipped with
this weapon. When you decide to fire a Smart
Missile at an enemy ship, the missile will auto-
matically home in on and destroy the enemy
ship, regardless of how many SHIELDS the
enemy may have left.

Combat is conducted as follows:

I.

You select your target(s). You may attack with
both phasers and Smart Missiles in the same
combat round, firing phasers at one ship while
destroying another ship with a Smart Missile.

. Any enemy vessels attacked by a Smart Missile

are now destroyed; they sill not return fire with
phasers.

Roll two dice for the phaser attack. If the result
is higher than or equal to your ship’s WEAPONS
STRENGTH, you have missed. Proceed to step 5.
If the result is less than your ship’s WEAPONS
STRENGTH, you have hit the enemy ship — reduce
its SHIELDS by 1 point, If the enemy ship has not
been destroyed, proceed to step 5.

. All undestroyed enemy ships return fire with

phasers in the following manner: roll two dice. If

the result is higher than or equal to the ship’s

WEAPONS STRENGTH, the phasers have missed
ou.

i the result is less than the ship's WEAPONS

STRENGTH, the phasers have hit you - reduce

your SHIELDs by 1 point.

. Combat continues from step 1 until either you or

your opponent's ships are destroyed.

412

Smart Missiles

These deadly devices inflict instant and certain des-
truction upon enemy spacecraft. They can only be
used once each, Your spacecraft begins with two of
these weapons — note that there is a section on the
Adventure Sheet for keeping record of the number of
Smart Missiles you have left in your Armoury.

Replacing Stamina

If you become involved in any gun battles or other
combat, you will almost certainly lose some
STAMINA points. These may be recovered by taking
Energy Tablets, Each tablet will restore 6 points to
your STAMINA and can be taken at any time. You
begin the adventure with 4 Energy Tablets — note
that there is a section on the Adventure Sheet for
keeping record of the number of Energy Tablets
you have left. Your STAMINA score can never be
made to exceed your /nitial level.

12

Your Credit Account

During the course of your adventure you will prob-
ably need certain amounts of cash. You begin the
mission with 5,000 kopecks (the standard inter-
galactic currency) — record this amount and any
expenses on the Adventure Sheet.

13
'

SKILL STAMINA LUCK Skilf= Skill= Skill=
Initial Initial initial Shamine= Stamina= Stanine=
Shill= Staniina= Luck=
EQUIPMENT SHIELDS Skills Skitl= Skill=
AND WEAPONS Initial Stamina= Stamita= Staminas
Shields=
WEAPONS
STRENGTH
Shill= Skill= Skill=
SMART MISSILES Stamitia= Stamina= Stamina=
ENERGY
TABLETS
Skillen Skill= Skill=
Staming= Stamina= Staminas
MONEY

MISSION BRIEFING

The Galactic Federation consists of several hundred
civilized worlds, all of which are signatories to
cerlain basic Federal laws and conventions. One of
these concerns the suppression of trafficking in
certain narcotic drugs. Simply, the export of narco-
tic drugs from one world to another is illegal.

The Federal Police Force has become aware, how-
ever, of an extremely large flow of the illicit narcotic
Satophil-d from the tiny Aleph Cygni system. As
the individual worlds are supposed to police these
matters themselves, there has developed some
concern that all is not well with the Aleph Cygni
administration,

With the obvious failure of the local administration
to deal with this breach of Federal law your depart-
ment, Federal Central (Vice), has decided to send a
Grade 1 Investigator (you) to locate the source of
this drug flow, penetrate the organization respon-
sible and then destroy it.

16

Because of the possible untrustworthiness of the
Aleph Cygni authorities, you travel to the system
incognito, posing as an interstellar travelling sales-
man with a cargo of exatic off-world fruil, spices and
luxuries. Once in the system you are on your own.
Good luck!

NOW TURN OVER.

7
1
FIVE MINUTES TO HYPERSPACE TERMINATION
flashes on the command vidi in front of you. An
alarm bell chimes softly through the ship. In a few
moments you will be entering the Aleph Cygni
system and, if there has been any criminal infiltra-
tion into the Galactic Vice Squad, there could be a
very hot reception.

POUR MINUTES TO EHYPERSPACE TERMINATION

Swivelling in your crash couch, you run a check
through your spacecraft’s weapon systems: PHAS-
ERS — Check; SMART MISSILES, 2— Check; SHIELDS ~
Check. Pretty hefty stuff for a travelling salesman,
though no one’s to know, unless you have to use it,
Until such time, your cover should remain intact.

You charge up the conventional drive of your
spaceship, raise the anti-spy beam shield and grit
your teeth for the stomach twisting end to hyper-
spatial travel.

PREPARE FOR INSERTION INTO RBAL SPACE/TIME

The bottom drops out of the spaceship; you follow
at some super-light speed . , . Sssffit, Everything
flies back together and is once again, apart from the
hangover you seem to have developed in the last
moment, back to normal, There, on the screen in
front of you, is the Aleph Cygni system — the yellow
star, Aleph Cygni, and its single planet, Kether.
Kether, your Cosmo-Nav tells you, is a habitable
2

world consisting of vast expanses of ocean and.
aparl from a few scattered islands, only one con-
tinental land-mass. Circling this world is 2 small
pock-marked moon known locally as Rispin’s End_
Not visible on your vidiscreen, but whose presence
you are alerted to by your Cosmo-Nay, is a vast belt
consisting of hundreds of thousands of asteroids.

Where will you begin your search for the drug
Tunners — at the system's starport on Kether (turn to
333), on the moon (tur to 328), or in the asteroid
belt (turn to 372)?

2
He spots you following and ducks down a side
street. You Lry to give chase but he is nowhere to
be seen. Lost him. Suddenly, 2 hand grabs your
arm and drags you into the shadowy shelter be
hHveen two buildings. lt is the man you were chas-
ing. “Wha . . -? you try to say before he caps a hand
over your mouth. He pulls out a pad, scrawis
‘Quiet — spy beam!’ on it and then ‘Meet me, Hotel
Mirtmur— Ret 1202, 1 hour. Then he strides off.

Will you go to meet him (turn to 395), or go back and
continue your surveillance of Zera Gross’s apart-
ment (turn to 109)?

—
a

Ks Bia wae
; oa 3 =
Kz : 3 ne o >
‘ ~ ; ! >
ee é Pd

/

ot

The door opens into a small room, with a desk, afew
filing cabinets and a vidiphone. The vidiphone be-
gins to buzz and, to your dismay, footsteps can be
heard approaching. Drawing your blaster, you hide
in a corner, behind a filing cabinet. Someone enters
the room and answers the phone-

‘Yeah? Oh, it’s you, baby,’ says.a man.

‘Clive, I have to see you,’ a woman’s voice crack-
les over the phone.

‘Look, dear, we're going to be busy all night and
l have to meet Arthur at the Café Heroes of the
Federation tomorrow moming, so you'll have to
wait until after then.’

‘But. . .’ she pleads.

‘Tomorrow. We can’t speak here." He hangs up.

‘Hey, Torus? Get here, now!’ yells someone else
where in the building.

‘OK! Clive yells back, running from the room.
Will you leave and go to the meeting that Clive is

having with Arthur tomorrosy {turn lo 315), or will
you continue to explore the warehouse (turn to

354)?
4-6

4
in a sleazy bar you discover a hoary old asterwid
miner, down from space for a two-week drinking-
binge. ‘Lots of illicit traffic. . . hee hee” he cackles.
‘Lots of illicit traffic, my little Fed. . . hee, hee - _ .
but it'll cost you 500 kopecks to get the location out
of me,’

Will you pay him the 500 kopecks (turn to 355), orgo
to the starport to continue your inquiries (turn to
345)?

5
‘Stop!’ you cry, ‘leave me alone!” It shrieks with
insane laughter, rises to its full height, pownces -
and swallows you whole. You have failed.

6
You show him youridentification. ‘You. - . you'rea
Fed?’ he asks, T, . . [didn’t mean - . . Oh, no!’ His
bewilderment gives way to fear. ‘1 didn’t do any-
thing,’ he says, putting his blaster down. ‘I'm not
ae the rest of the guys here .. . I don’t work for
thers.”

‘Who? you ask, but he is not listening. Ina panic, he
tuns off, and disappears from view. Will you go
back into hiding again (turn to 357), or assume that
your cover has been blawn and leave the starport in
search of anew lead (turn to 231)?

7-1 0

7
The road dips into a hollow, thus being forced into
an 5-bend. The sloop, still far ahead, slowed down
and stayed on the road to take this bend. Will you do
the same (turn to 280}, or throw the car into the
possibly soft shoulder at high speed (turn to 358)?

8
You hit them a glancing blow, but enough to send
them spinning across the tarmac. When the sloop
hits the verge it flips, end over end, until it comes to
rest in a tree a few metres back from the road. You
pull over. Turn to 359.

9
The corridor ends fairly shortly in a large control
panel The only thing on it which makes any sense is
a digital read-out:

NEXT SHUTILE DUE—75 HOURS, 31 MINUTES,
20 SECONDS

You turn back to the T-junction and follow the other
passage. Turn to 360.

10
You go off target, drifting straight into the side of
one of the bulbous creatures, The thing turns wild,
sprouting teeth in a cavernous maw and snapping
at you. It bites you. Lose 4 points of sTamina, Tum
to 361-
it

11

Arriving at the Viqueque that evening, you find Mr
Semuel, heavily disguised by a change of hair colour
and false beard, seated in a semi-enclosed booth.
‘Were you followed?’ he whispers. Tdon’t think so,’
you whisper back. He relaxes, wiping his brow with
an old handkerchief and taking a hearty slug from
his drink. During dinner, via staccato bursts of
whispers, he informs you that the local provtors are
absolutely rotten with cormuption and that his own
department, the Vice Squad, is the warst.

‘We haven’t conducted any form of dmig-related
inquiry for months,” he laments. ‘Somebody up-
stairs, perhaps everybody, ison someone 's payroll.’
He doesn’t have many ideas, though, about who is
on as. : the racket, nor where you should begin.
He has only tro concrete leads to offer you. He
suspects that some of the drugs arrive at the city’s
heliport on both legal and illegal flights, and he has
one underworld contact — an unemployed starship
navigator —who would be willing to speak with you,

Will you ask a few questions at the heliport {turn to
206), or go to meet the navigator (furn to 284)?

12-13

iz
You punch the heading YEARBOOKS into the termi-
nal. After a second it replies svith

AGRICULTURE, MANUFACTURE OR TRANSPORT?

Which heading will you look up first?

Apriculture? Tum to 363
Manufacturing? Turn to 324
Transport? Turn to 285

a3
The gunman has collapsed on the sidewalk; a pool
of blond is spreading towards the gutter. You
approach him cautiously. He opens his eyes and
watches you. ‘Zera has you marked,‘ he whispers.
‘We... took Clive to “Spark's” this. . . this morn-
ing. . - youre next." He expires.

Looks like you won't be able to find Cive naw—he’s
probably already six foot under. If ‘they’ are plan-
ning to drag you into a place called ‘Spark's’ (a bar,
you discover, when looking it up in a directory a bit
later), then perhaps you should pre-empt them by
showing up at this place — incognito — first. Turn to
286.

14-17

You discover an alarm which would have been
triggered had you simply opened the window. You
easily disarm it. Climbing through the window you
find yourselfin a tiny bare room. Turn to 365.

15
Test your Luck. Lf you are successful, turn to 327;
otherwise turn to 366.

16
You have no leads left to follow. Still, you persist for
2 few more weeks before receiving a recall from
Federal Central (Vice). You have failed.

17
The track winds through the wood for a kilometre or
two before breaking out into the open. You cannot
see the sloop anywhere. Will you continue dawn
this road (furn to 95), or backtrack to the main road
(turn to 368)?

18-20

You duck to the side, avoiding his blow. Next, you
deliver a savage kick to his midriff, knocking him to
the floor. Throwing him into a full nelson, you
demand, ‘What's going on here?’ He gurgles a bit
and then tries pointing at his desk, on which are
numerous files and a computer vidilink. You take a
look at these. Turn to 125.

49
You gently nudge your ship between the closely

packed mines. Roll two dice. If the result is higher —

than or equal to your sKILL, turn to 351- If the result
is less than your SKILL, turn to 370.

20
The corridor takes you to the control room of the
asteroid’s nuclear reactor. There are plenty of in-
strument panels covering the walls but, strangely,
other than a keyhole, no controls — must be com-
pletely automatic.

If you have the key to fit this hole tum to 391:
otherwise you return to the T-junction and head
down the other corridor (turn to 352).

21-22

21

The corridor twists, turns and branches. Eventually
you realize that you must have made a wrong turn
somewhere, for the assassin is nowhere to be seen.
You decide that you might as well follow him up on
Kether, as he's unlikely to stay on Rispin’s End once
you leave. You rocket back to the planet and head
out towards the City Central Library. Turn to 80.

22
With a lightning manoeuvre, you leap over the
edge of the gantry, falling about seven metres.
Throw three dice and subtract the total from your
stamina. If the fall hasn’t killed you, you manage
to escape the warehouse and thugs.

The only worthwhile clue you have left — as going
back to the warehouse would be a bit impractical—is
the knowledge that their ‘shipment’ is coming from
the asteroids. You decide to find somebody in the
Space industry who may know something about
dlegal space traffic. Turn to 384.

23-24

23
To your surprise, he is in! He looks up at you with
indifference, as if he is used to people bursting inon
him unannounced. You might as well come straight
to the point and question him.

Will you act tough to extract the necessary informa-
tion (turn to 208), or play ‘Mr Nice Guy’ (turn to
296)?

24
The two dead men hang listlessly in the air, their
knives floating near by. From several corridors
leading into the room come the sounds of pursuit
and hysteria. You go back down the corridor you
entered by.

Will you go straight back to your spacecraft and
thence to Kether (turn to 231), or down the other
passage at the intersection where you heard the
monks’ yoices (turn to 385)?

=

:

'

257-26

5
Sacking your gun barrel against his chest, you push
him over to 2 wall. ‘That's just not good enough,’
ou say. Tm afraid I’m going to have to shoot you’
He closes his eves and grits his teeth — resigned to
death? Test vour Luck, If you are successful, turn to
347; otherwise turn to 386.

26

The jets flare again, but you have misjudged the
an. ale at which to hold them and find yourself
cnfting by the satellite at an angle. You'll have to
make an adjustment with the jets if you are to make
= Roll ho dice. If the result is higher than or equal
2 your SKILL, turn to 104. Lf the result is less than
yOUr SKILL, fiirn to 182.
27-28

27

The turbines whine as you push the accelerator to
the floor, and the car shudders as you smash into
the rear of the sloop. Your bumpers mangle slightly,
but otherwise the collision has litle effect. Test your
Luck, If you are successful, turn to 388; otherwise
turn to 349.

———-— @)

—$_i

The plastic containers are full of Satophil<d. Looks
like they were getting ready to ship it out to the
mainland. In one of the corners of the room you
discover the curled-up body of a man, obviously
killed by the teeth of a rather savage beast or at the
hands of a skilled torturer, With all the fracas you
have recently caused in this room, other guards
may be coming. Will you search this man to try to
discover why he was killed {turn to 350), or just
leave (turn to 389)?

29-30

29
You grab the lever, and the iris lack shuts, with a
click ike a camera shutter. Air rushes back into the
room with a roar. Tur to 371.

30
‘Hi there!’ you shout at a young bar-wench. Tm
new in town and I'm sort of looking for somebady
who can help a young, unscrupulous type of per-
son, like me, get along without having to work ina
regular way, see?”

‘Oh, yeah?’ she shouts back, disdainfully. “What
d’yer do, zero head?’ You perform a quick bit of
thinking here: what's absolutely essential for a
drug-producing outht?

Tm a chemist. I make funny little crystals for
people to stick in their bloodstreams,‘ you yell. She
blinks at you a bit, obviously thinking without
seeing vou. Hiking up her skirt she reveals a garter
purse. Slapping it, she says, Five hundred kopecks,
Will you pay her (turn to 323) or not? If you decide

not to pay you will just have to mingle with the
throng (furn to 362).
31

31

Having started the eject cycle, your spacecraft
begins to disintegrate around you, the debris con-
fusing the attacking craft. The escape pod, of which
the bridge is part, begins to perform some violent
evasive Manoeuvres to bring you safely to the sur-
face of Rispin’s End. The attacking craft, obviously
convinced that you have been destroyed, break off-
You are on the grey, pocked surface of Kether’s
moon. Leaving the escape pod and setting off on
foot towards the dome town, you are distracted
only by the odd piece of debris from your ex-
spacecraft falling softly to the ground. With the low
gravity on this moon, some of the pieces could
remain in orbit for days, maybe weeks.

You trek across the moon for hours, taking nine-
metre steps until, with alarm, you realize that your
oxygen is running low. To yourright, nestled at the
foot of a crater some kilometres away, you can see a
small orange dome, the only sign of possible habita-
tion that you have seen since you ejected.

Will you approach the dome, in the hope that it is
occupied (turn to 353), or will you keep going, just
m case the dome town is only over the next ridge
(turn tk» 392)?
5 aes J

na

SX

*

f

t/

$

a aie

f

WJ Re
ees .

32
The security guard knocks you into submission,
handcuffs you and calls more guards on his com-
link. Turn to 129.

33
- I'm sorry, | didn’t mean to destroy the files,’
he eae

‘What?’ you say sarcastically. “You didn’t mean
to?"

‘Oh. . well, that’s not what I meant .
er. ere do you want to know —1 was covering
up for some flights from the islands. -

“Which ones?’ you snap.

‘I dan’t know — we only pick them up when
they've almost reached the continent's coast. _ - but
mainly I was covering up for flights to the asteroids.”

‘Who were you doing this for?’

‘1... I don’t know . . . I just receive a cheque
every month. . .’

He may be lying. If you think he needs a bit more
terror to make him come out with the truth, turn to
374. Otherwise, if you think sheer fright is making
him become a bit confused, then go easier on him
and turn to 335-

34-35

34

The hatch opens into a small antiseptic airlock.
Once through this, however, you find a rough-
hewn corridor, dimly lit with yellow arc lights,
leading towards the centre of the asteroid. The walls
of the cormdor have, evidently, been treated with
some kind of plastic to prevent the air inside fom
filtering away into space. Weightless, you follow
the corridor until it enters a spherical room. Above
you, a tiny niche is cut into the wall—its contents lie
in darkness. In front of you the corridor continues
out of the room and further into C230. Will you
follow the corridor (turn to 336), or examine the
niche (turn to 375)?

35
The meeting they have arranged for you is with Mrs
Torus, wife of Clive Torus, one of their ex-buddies.
They take you to the glasshouses in the enormous
Botanic Gardens of Kether’s capital city.

‘The documents,’ the punk driver of the black
ground-sloop you are in explains, ‘are in a safety-
deposit box. SheTl have them for you.” They park
behind a glasshouse, show you where Mrs Tomus is
standing, and push you from the car. Turn to 376.
36-37

36
You take your spacecraft into orbit. lf your own
spacecraft has been destroyed you will have to hire
another for the tip for 1,000 kopecks. After a few
days of searching for anything in an Li6 orbit, you
discover the satellite. Tum to 377.

The sloop is only a few metres ahead of you when it
comes to an S-bend — the big car slops clumsily into
the comer, far too fast. Here’s your chance! As they
go around, will you ram them in the back (frm to
135), or hit them in the side (furn to 396)?

38~40

38
The machine drops from the air and explodes into
flames. You step past the remnants and proceed
along the corridor, coming shortly to an intersee-
tion. Will you contmue down the corndor (turn to
340), or take the side-passage (turn to 379)?

39
Roll two dice. If the result is higher than or equal to

your SKILL turn to 302. If the result is less than your
SKILL turn to 341.

40
The door opens, leading you into the room you
were in before. It is pointless to go back. Return to
156.

: Sot
ee > a 4
Sy LF
41

After several hours scanning the previous several
years’ daily news releases and case lists, it becomes
evident that there is very little to find. No articles at
all on organized manufacture or dealing of drugs,
and only one liny snippet under a case list released
four years ago which reads: ‘Central Criminal Court
3: State vs. Z. Gross and B. “Blaster” Babbet. Before
Justice Zark. Charge: trafficking in illicit organic
materials (Satophil-d). Sitting 10.30 a.m." After that
there is nothing. No record of conviction —nothing.

You look them up in the vidiphone directory and
find an address for B, Babbet, but nothing for Z.
Gross. Will you go and look oyer B. Babbet’s
address {turn to 256), or go to the State Computer
File Centre to see if anything else about these two
can be uncovered (tum to 246)?

42-43

42
As you draw your blaster, he fires at you. You will

have to fight him.
GUNMAN SKILL 6
if you defeat him, turn to 13.

STAMINA §

43
You climb the guttering on to the roof and find a
window. Roll two dice. If the resultis higher than or
equal to your SKILL, turn to 82. If the result is less
than your SKILL, turn to 14.

44-45

#4
You arrive ai the meeting-place. The greenhouses in
the Botanic Gardens contain a huge, rambling dis-
play of exotic plant forms, both native and off-vorld
—a very picturesque spot.

You see Mrs Torus, safety-depasit box sticking out
of bag, waiting for you to meet her. She has not seen
you yet. Will you look around the rounds first to
see if you are being watched (turn to 15), or just go
nght up and meet her (turn to 376)?

45

A few hours pass with little happening. Then a
helijet arrives with a one-tonne cargo cf small
heavy-duty plastic boxes. These are loaded on to an
electric dray and wheeled over to where three Cus-
toms officers are waiting to inspect it. One of them
opens a box.

"Ah! This is the stuff,’ he says.

‘What?’ says another.

‘You know, Satophil-d—dope, stuff, dust”

$5

‘Oh’

‘Anything to declare?” he says to the helijet pilot.

“No. Of course not,’ is the reply.

"Very good,’ says the Customs official. “Passed
imspection.” He stamps the boxes with a large red
Sign, saying PASSED CUSTOMS — FOR ExPORT, Flow
blatant can they get in their contempt for the law?
Time to put an end te this. You burst out of the
locker, drawing your blaster as you go. ‘Freeze!’ you
cry, aiming your gun at the pilot's head. They keep
very, ¥ery still. You utter a few threats concerning
their fates if they don’t tell you who is running this
racket. They spill the beans.

‘The Isosceles Tower. . ." says one Customs offi-
cial.

.in the city. . .’ says another.
. - top floor. . .” says the last.
.. . and don’t forget the communications satel-
lite in the 116 orbit . - - gasps the helijet pilot.
“No... we won't,’ say the others.

After imprisoning these very guilty felons aboard
your spacecraft, will you go to the Isosceles Tower
(turn to 320), or check out the communications
satellite {(furn to 36)?

46-47

46
The car slides a bit but stays on the road. The sloop
has been lost ahead in the thickness of the forest.
However, you see a small side-track approaching on
the right. Did the sloop continue on the main road
or take the track? Which will you take: main road
{turn to 329} or track (turn to 17)?

47
Tlaving defeated them, you may claim the first
thug’ 5 fully automatic blaster, which will cause 6
points of damage every time you hit an opponent.

After the smoke clears you approach the private
office and open its door. A tall, gangly bureaucrat
attacks you with a paperweight. ‘Out, out!’ he
screams as he swings at you. He has taken you by
surprise, so Test your Luck. If you are successful,
turn to 18; otherwise turn to 369,

48-49

wa Fay a ts!

i

48
You sight up on one of the mines —a flat disk-shaped
piece of potential energy just waiting to blow you to
atoms — and let fire with your phasers. The mine
explodes far more violently than you expected, the
impact hitting your ship even from the supposedly
safe distance that you chose to fire from. You lose 1
sHteLp. Fortunately, though, thanks to the defen-
ders’ incompetence in laying out their minefield,
the mine has set offa chain reaction through the rest
of the field. They all explode, giving you a clear
passage through to the asteroid. Turn to 312.

49
With the alien vanquished, you cross the bridge and
go down the exit comdor, coming shortly to a
T-junction. Will you turn to the left (turn to 352), or
the right (turn to 20)?

50

50

As you circle around Kether’s moon, scanning the
sutface, you are alerted by your ship’s computer to
the approach of two small robot fighters. They are
swooping up from the far side of Rispin’s End,
lasers stabbing beams al you! They have cut across
your path and there is little chance of escaping them
without fighting. As you lock on your defensive
scTeens one question raises itself — Why? You fight
them.

WEAPONS

STRENGTH SHIELDS
ROBOT FIGHTER 1 7 1
ROBOT FIGHTER 2 - 1

If your ship is destroyed, throw one die. If the result
is even, you may eject (turn to 31); otherwise you
have been destroyed. If you defeat the robots tum to
294-

31-52

5}

You hide on the porch of the apartment block next
door —just in time too, for a thin man comes along
the street and enters the porch of the woman’s
building. He speaks on the mtercom.

‘Zera?”’

‘Yeah?’ comes the crackling, machine-distoried
reply.

‘It's Arthur.’

‘Ah... good, Come an up’

He enters the building and emerges ten minutes
later, looks cautiously up and down the street and
strides off towards the city centre. Will you follow
him (turn to 2) or continue to watch the apartment
{turn tu 109)?

52
They do not see vou. “Everything ready?’ one of the
men asks.
‘Sure, sure. What time’s the dope arriving?’
‘Tomorrow some time — it’s coming in from the
asteroids again, so we can’t be sure exactly when.
Might have re-entry problems.°
‘Ah... -’

53

They talk for a while about the receiving arrange-
ments and then leave the storeroom, The landing is
= little bit too far above the storeroom to make
‘umping practical, so you go back down the stairs.
Wil you continue to explore the warehouse by
soing through the other door (turn to 3), orleave the
place and look for somebody in the space industry
who may know something about the illegal space
traffic you heard the two men discussing (tum

to 354)?

53
You swat atthe bug, butit flies away and settles ona

rafter aboye you — still watching. You attempt a few
manoeuvres—diving into a passing helicab, walking
through a crowded shopping-mall, and even run-
ning in and out of different elevators. But all this is
to no effect, evidently, as you find when you leap
out of one elevator and are confronted by fwo men
holding blasters fifteen centimetres from your belly’
There is no chance of escaping them, as you'd be
blown to pieces from this distance. They lead you
out the back of the shop which you were in. Turn to
316.

54-56

54
Will you shout a question at the beast (turn to 356),
or just order it to leave you alone (turn to 5)?

‘Raise your hands over your head,’ warns the seaur-
ity guard, as he walks forward, blaster pointing at
your midriff. Just what the zark do you think you Te
up lo, Mr Zero?” You raise your hands. Will you
demonstrate to him that you are a Federal Narcotics
Investigator (turn to 6}, or keep your cover and
attempt to bribe him instead (turn to 318)?

56
suddenly, the forest is gone. The road, curving ina
long wide arc to the right, is dear but for the black
sloop which is about 250 metres ahead and hurtling
along. Will you drive on the wrong side of the road
in an attempt to shorten the distance (turn to 290), or
not (turn to 7)?

57-59

57 f ‘
Sut you actually miss it by a few centimetres! it
squeals around the curves with you in close pursuit.
Turn to 378-

8
Leaving the room by sneehee corridor, you come to
2 T-junction. To the left and right the corridor splits
and heads into dim yellow light before turning from
view. Will you go left (turn to 360), or right (turn
to 9)?

You make if to the first sphere and jump for the
next. Roll two dice, If the result is higher than or
equal to your SKILL, turn to-4o. If the result is less
than your SKILL, turn to 361.
60

60
The corridor twists and turns, but you can see him
ahead. You pursue him until his path is blocked by
an airlock door which he is hastily trying to open.
You notice, however, that the warning light above
the door is on. There is a vacuum on the other side’

He opens the door and, terror and sudden realiza-
on in his eyes, is swept oul by a rush of air into the
airless reaches of Rispin’s End. His body spins
slowly in the low gravity over a vast grey plain.

You are also swept foryvard but, fortunately, the
airlock’s emergency override is activated before you
find yourself in space. The door shuts. You go back
to your spaceship, suit up and go to recover the
man’s body which, when you eventually find it,
yields little information — no identification, simply a
mechanical component for a helijet. Maybe his nor-
mal occupation, when not shooting at strangers,
Was a mechanic?

There seems ta be little point in staying on Rispin’s
End, so you return to Kether. You can either go to
one of the heliports around the capital (turn to 206),
or perhaps do a bil of ‘research’ at the City Centra!
Library (turn to $0),

61-62

The gantry ends in a door, which opens on to the
roof, You receive a sudden push in the back which
sends you sprawling to your knees. The last thing
you hearis the click ofa blaster being set off ‘safety’ -
You have failed.

62
There are too many files to look at them all, so you
decide to have a look in his desk drawers. Turn to

179.

63

63

Drawing your pistol, you float over their heads and
say, “Ahem.” They look up, but seem impervious to
the threat that your gun poses to their existence.
They merely scream, ‘Intruder! Intruder in the
monastery! Then, in the frenzy of their panic, they
pull long knives from hidden folds in their garments
and try to stab you. ‘Kill the infidel!’ cnes one-
‘Death to the unbeliever!’ cries the other. They will
altack you one ata time rather than simultaneously.
You must fight them hand to hand.

SKILL STAMINA
MONK. 9
MONK2 7

if you defeat them, turn to 24,

“wi Vi

64

a 4

——_

‘Don't shoot me, please!” he whispers. Tl tell. . -
tell you what I know.’ You take a few menacing
steps towards him. “You do that,” you say, encoura-
singly.

‘There are some intermittent transmissions we

wet froma... a satellite in orbit. An L16 orbit, I
think. ‘They tell us when to expecta. . . a shipment
- but. . , but, , ,” hestutters.
‘Bul what?’

‘Oh. . . er. . . but nothing really, that’s it’

Maybe he’s telling the truth. You could go out into
space and check up on this satellite (turn to 36), or
you could assume that he knows some more and
rough him upa bit to see what else he'll say (turn to

25)-

65-66

65

You find that you were holding one of the jets
incorrectly, cutting off its fuel supply and sending
yourself spinning slightly. You have only covered a
quarter of the distance. You'll have to have another
shot with the jets. Roll two dice. If the result is
higher than or equal to your SKILL, turn to 26. lt the
result is less than your SKILL, turn to 260,

They swerve wildly across the road before fishtail-
ing over the verge and hitting a tree, wrapping the
car around it. A bit of harsh braking brings your
own car to a more civilized halt on the side of the
road. Turn to 359-
67-68

You push the door Soon find yourself in a large
toom stacked high with heavy-duty plastic contain-
ers. There are also four brutish-looking guards
present. When they see you they draw their guns
and start firing. You will have to fight them.

SKILL STAMINA

SUARD 4 5 6
GLARD2 4 6
GUARD3 : z

If you defeat them, turn to 28.

68
You fly towards it, but miss by millimetres. Clawing
frantically, you grapple with the edge of the airlock,
but the rush of airis too strong and sweeps you into
space. You have failed. d

69-70

The figure smashes into a thousand pieces when
you shoot it. The other Babbet laughs, turns to the
left and opens fire, enigmatically, away from you.
To your horror, blaster shells come tearing through
the folding screen and smash into your body. The
figures were reflections! The gangster was hiding
behind the screen all along. You sink to the floor,
your wounds making an irremovable stain in the
plush pile of the carpet. You have failed.

7a
The woman seems to remain unaware of your pre-

sence and, after a short time, enters a five-storey
apartment block. A few moments after entering, a
fourth-floor light comes on. You go up to the block's
porch and fook at the residents’ list. Five names —
one per floor, probably. The fourth flooris occupied
by

ZERA GROSS
STELLAR AND INTERPLANETARY
IMPORT/EXPORT

Will you stay and watch her apartment (turn to 51),
or call it a day and spend the morrow searching in
the City Central Library for some information about
this Zera Gross (turn to 80)?

71-72

4s soon as you land on the floor, a flashlight is on
you. ‘Stop! a voice cries. You can’t afford to be
caught here in this position, so you will have to fight
the security guard who has discovered you. You
can’t start a gun fight either, because the noise of
blaster shots would certainly attract more guards.
You dive at him and fight hand to hand.

SKILL STAMINA
SECURITY GUARD 10 8

if you defeat him, ignore any damage that he in-
ficted upon you (the damage is only temporary)
and turn te 119. If you lose, turn to 32.

72
Please don’t send me to jail,’ he pleads. ‘T’ve told
you everything!
‘What about the Customs officer's name?’ you
ask.
‘Zac—Zac Kalensus,’ he says. ‘He pays me to doit
.. but I won‘tany more. . .*
‘Yeah. . . yeah,” you say. Tum to 121-
73

Co

You rocket out to asteroid C230. If your own
Spacecraft has been destroyed, you will have to par
gut 2,000 kopecks to hire another for ihe trip.

C230 is about 300 metres in diameter, with the only
signs of habitation being a dock anda few antennae.
Seems to be fairly quict, though — at least your
arrival hasn't resulted in the launching of any anti-
shipping missiles. . . yet.

You don your pressure-suit and space-walk around
the outside of the rock, discovering, seemingly,
only three ways of entering: the dock area, a small
emergency entry hatch, and an air-conditioning
radiator vent. Entering via the dock would be a bit
obvious, so will you try the hatch (turn to 34), or the
vent (turn to 229)?

74-75

74
You miss! Startled, he tums to see you and begins to

shout into a walk-phone. As you take aim again, he
slides from the tree, taking a potshotas he goes, and
hitting you in the hand. Subtract 1 from your SKItt.
Other shots can be heard now, and a woman's
screams. Chasing the sniper, you see Mrs Torus’s
blaster-riddled body lying next to the black sloop
that you saw parked behind the glasshouse. The
sniper picks up the safety-deposit box Mrs ‘l'orus
had been carrying for you, and dives into the sloop,
which squeals off. Will you try and give chase to the
car (turn to 191), orstop and tender aid to Mrs Tarus
{turn to 210)?

in the city, you visita lot of cheap dives, a few of the
places you were at before, and ask a lot of questions
— all to no avail. Everything seems to haye gone
underground. The organization has finally been
alerted to your presence. Twn to 16,
76-78

76
You pursue the sloop through the forest, your
bumpers almost touching. Suddenly, the forest dis-
appears and the road is in the open, going up a
raised embankment. Will you try to draw up next to
them (turn to 310), orram them from behind (tur to
27}?

You pass down the corridorand come to an intersec-
tion. Will you continue down the corridor (tum to
340), or turn up the side-passage (humm to 379)?

You shoot atit, while it Gies to engulf vou in electric
fire,

SKILL STAMINA
SENTINEL - 10

If you destroy it, turn to 263.

79-80

79
A small poisoned dart, fired froma minuscule open-

mg in a corner, hits you. The door does not open.
Lose 1 pomt of STAMINA. Return to 186.

80

The City Central Library is an enormous complex,
housing millions of volumes of vidis, microfilms
and even 2 few books. It is almost deyoid of human
life when you arrive: there is no organic staff and
most subscribers get the information or volumes
they want sent to them by cable. You seat yourself at
2 terminal marked FoR PUBLIC USE ONLY.

Will you start by looking through old vidinews for
something on local organized crime (turn to 41), or
look up some government-released statistics in-
Stead (furn to 12)?
81-82

Si
The café owner doesn’t recall the name and has not
seen anyone, other than those you saw, enter the
premises. Disgruntled, you leave the cafe.

‘Oi, you!’ calls a yoice behind you. Turning, you see
that it is a clean-cut looking fellow pointing a blaster
at you. ‘Come here.’ He waves the gun menacingly.

Will you attempt to run from him (turn to 364), or
draw your own blaster and threaten him back (furn
to 42)?

$2
As you open the window, an alarm begins sound-
ing. Footsteps can be heard approaching from the
garden and behind the window. Trapped! Two
guards appear. You will have to shoot at them.

SKILL STAMINA
GUARD: 8 6
GUARD2 6 6

If you defeat them, you are forced, by the presence
of more guards, to leave the manor-house
altogether. Turn to 231.
83-84

83

Cautiously, you approach the pedestal and flame. It
roars brighter. The doors slam shut! You see a
monstrous serpentine figure with a woman's face
forming in the flame over the pedestal. It sprouts a
couple of dozen scaly legs from behind its face,
turns blue and begins to laugh. You noiice that its
mouth is full of steel fangs. A couple of leather
wings grow from its back. The beast reaches and
grabs you with a few of its legs.

If you have read the prayer to Thuvald, you may
Tecite it (turn to 122). Otherwise, you will either
have to shoot the beast (hum fo 93), or try to speak
with it (turn to 54).

84
The guard moves down the row of lockers, finally
reaching yours. He puts his hand on the latch.
‘Hey, Harry!’ a voice within the depot cies. Time
for a beer, ol’ buddy.’
‘Is that so?’ says the security guard, looking at his
watch. ‘Guess it is, too."

Leaving your locker, he strolls off in the direction of
his friend. Safe! Turn to 45.

85-86

85
You hurtle into the forest at well over 200 k.p.h., ta
find the road curving in tight S-bends between thick
clumps of trees. You fight with the steering-whcel
to keep the car on the road. Roll two dice. If the
result is higher than or equal to your SKIL, turn to
270- If the result is less than your SKILL, turn to 46.

You enter a small ante-room to a private office.
Standing by an enormous wooden table, pushing
piles of files through a shredding-machine and tos-
Sing magnetic memory into a little incinerator on the
wall, are two brutish-looking characters. They are
both armed. When they see vou, they dive to the
floor and begin firing. One of them is armed with a
fully automatic blaster.

SKILL STAMINA
THUG: 10 6
THUG 2 6 6

If you defeat them, turn to 47.
87-89

87
You return to the mainland and then rocket out to
the asteroid belt. If your own spacecraft has been
destroyed, you will have to hire another at a cost of
2,000 kopecks. If you cannot afford this then you
have failed.

When you approach the environs of the drug run-
ners’ asteroid, the command screen on your ship
flashes a message: MINEFIELD SURROUNDING
TARGET. You look out to see a thickly clustered
globular minefield set around the production aster-
oid — a very tricky proposition.

Vill you shoot your way through the mines (tum to
48), or carefully manoeuvre through instead (turn to
19)?

85
You fire at each other.

SKILL STAMINA
ARCTURIAN VANOUE 7 10

If you defeatit, turn to 49.

Sa
You go to the main heliport where the Ajir-traffic
Chief works. Now, should you follow him home
from work to confront him (turn to 247), or try to get
into his office when he’s not there (turn to 257)?
go=-91

90
You come back to the centre when if is dark — not
that it being dark has that much relevance to your
chances of being detected, but at leasi most of the
staff should be away. You don’t even attempt to go
over the razor wire — certain detection there. In-
stead, you climb up a drainpipe on the pillbox set
aside for public inquiries. You reach the roof. From
here you climb alony: an msulated cable, which nins
between the pillbox and the main building, until
you are on the roof of the actual centre. You open a
skylight and drop into the building. Test your Luck. lf
you are successful, turn to119; otherwise tum to 71.

Your foes are dead. As you step from the ware
house, with the sounds of pursuit close behind you,
another thug steps out from behind the pile of
tubbish by the back door. You spin round and raise
your blaster. ‘No, wait!’ he implores, holding a
piece of paper out to you. You hesitate, take the
paper, and then sprint from the environs of the
warehouse. Later you read the note:

Denar Nore,
Meet me at the Café Heroes of the
Federation, 9.00 2.7. tomorrow.
Yours unhappily tr crime,
Cline Torus

You might as well meet him. Turn to 315.

92= 94,

92
While sitting in a sleazy bar, talking to a hoary old

asteroid miner, you notice a buzzing little insect
land on your Shoulder. You go te brash it off but —
freeze — that's no insect. ‘hat's a bug, an electronic
bug. Though minutely fashioned to lovk like an
insect, you can see, at close examination, the tiny
jets under the mock wings, and the vidicamera for
aneye-aneye thatis staringstraightinto your own.

Will you try to lose the bug (turn to 53) or ignore it

and go to the starport to conduct your inquirics
(turn to 345)?

You draw your pistol and begin pumping shots into
the beast’s head and body. It laughs, draws itself to
its full height, pounces — and swallows vou whole.
You have failed.

4
You sprint from the depot. ‘he guard gets off one
shot at you, but misses. Well, you won't be able to
do anything around the starport for a while, so you
head off to find another lead. Turn to 231.
95-96

95
You follow the road for about ten kilometres, but
there is no sign of the villains. You have lost them.
Disconsolate, you drive back into the atv. Turn to
16.

The duty proctor, smoothing the wrinkles from his
uniform, hurries along a short cormdor, beckoning
you to follow. He shows you into a large office filled
mainly by an enormous desk, the rest of the space
being taken by the huge investigator sitting behind
it.

‘Hello,’ you say, after the duty proctor has left, ‘I'm
a Grade 1 Investigator from Federal Central (Vice)-
I've been sent here to crack the Aleph Cygni drug
ring and would apprecate any information or aid
you can give me.’

‘Why certainly, dear chap,’ he says jovially-
‘Here, have a cigar — Vegan, you know.’ He lights
up before continuing, ‘I would love to be of assist-
ance but, you see, there is no Aleph Cygni drug
ring.’

‘What?’

96

‘Fiction. We have absolutely no evidence of any-
thing large-scale, only one small operation out
on Rispin’s End, but that could hardly supply a
granny, let alone export to other worlds! Ha, ha!’

‘So, the only operation you know about is on the
moon?’

"Yes, that’s it.’ His jolly face is beaming at you.
“You could go and take a look out there, butI should
hardly bother.’

‘Oh?

‘No, no. | believe you've been sent on a wild-
zoose chase. Dear, oh dear, these Federal fellows, if
you'll excuse my rudeness, wouldn’t know a drug
ning from a Scallopian Fang.’

Perhaps not. There is obviously a source of, to use
Dolitician’s jargon, misinformation about. Federal
or local? Well, regardless of this man’s views on
Federal efficiency, you must continue the inyestiga-
Son until matters are resolved to your satisfaction.
Wall you go to Rispin’s End (turn to 398), or ignore
the local proctors and continue by searching for
some bar or dive where someone might vive a clue
or Byo away (turn fo 299)?

97-98
7
‘You shootit out

ANTARIAN ROBOT 8 8

Ifyou defeat it, am to 58.

fou go off target slighily, drifting into the tentacles.
wne ofthe bulbous creatures, ‘The thing tums into

teeth anda cavernousmaw, snapping wildly atyou.

lebites you. Lose 4 points of stasaiwa. Lum to59.

99-100

99
Walking through the spacious cormdors of the dome
town, deep in thought, vou accidentally bump into
a peTson rounding a corner. ‘Excuse me,’ you say,
glancing ... it's him! The assassin! Recognizing
you, he swings the bag he is carrying — probably
with his rifle in it— and knocks you off balance. He

Tuns away down one of the corridors.

Inamoment you are after him, but he is already out
of sight, having disappeared around another corner
ata T-junction. Unfortunately you didn’t see which
way he went. ill you try the left corridor (tum to
60), or the right (turn to 21)?

100

You raise your arms above your head as the gunmen
close in. The car door opens and out steps this
shifty-lnoking dude. He walks up to you slowly,
thoughtfully.

‘Who ... who are you?’ you ask, trying not to

sound too frightened-
‘My friends,’ he says, searching you casually, ‘call

101

me “Blaster”, but to you, it doesn’t matter.” Te
doesn’t find your gun.

*Why not?’

‘Ha . . . because, my friend, you are about to die,
We are expecting a shipment from the asteroids
tonight, see? As a consequence of your snooping
you must, alas. . .° Here he draws his finger across
his throat.

‘OK, boys,” he says to the gunmen. ‘On the roof,
three Bullets in the head.’ You are led by two of
them up a staircase and along a gantry towards the
roof of the warehouse. As you walk along the raised
gantry several options present themselves to you.

‘ou could try grabbing a rafter and kicking the
thugs off the gantry (turn to 383); or you could just
jump off the gantry yourself and hope the fall
doesn’t kill or cripple you (tum to 22); or you could
waita while longer and hope that a better opportun-
ity of escape presents itself (turn to 62).

191
You hear someone coming down the corridor to-
wards the office. Quickly, you step outside, smile at
the young lady standing there and say, Te doesn’t
seem to be in.” You stride past her and out of the
building. The asteroid known as C230 should be no
problem to find, so will you take a trip out to look at
it (turn to 73), or try to find somebody in the space
industry who can verify the fact of illegal traffic out
to the asteroids (turn to 384)?
102-103

102

You float cautiously into the hall and take up a place
behind a row of black-clad figures, who are throng-
ing the hall. They begin to chantand sway. A couple
of men out in front swing burning incense in great
circles. Soon a man, obviously the MC or high
priest, appears out in front and begins along prayer
to some holy malevolence known as Thuvald.
Obviously you have the wrong place — this is a
monastery, a weird one no doubt, but still a monas-
tery. You sneak out of the hall, away from C230 and
head back to the Kether. Turn to 232-

103
He freezes. ‘I. . . [don’t know. . . hestutters. You
wave your pistol and take a couple of menacing
steps towards him.’ ... very much. - . just about
some transmissions from a satellite m orbit - - - an
L16 orbit, I think. Please don't shoot me!’ You
threaten him a bit more but with little effect.
Perhaps that is all he knows. You decide to havea
look in space for this satellite. Turn to 36.

104-105

104

You drop the jets! They fire continuously, exhaust-
ing themselves of fuel and dragging you, via the
safety wires attaching yourself to them, in the
wrong direction. You spin off into space. You have
failed.

105

You didn’t quite hit them hard enough — they man-
age fo regain control and stay on the road. The
collision did, however, cost you a bit of speed. ‘Turn

i> 46-

106-108

£06
fhe corridor ends in a room. Spread about are gun
racks and a few packets of blaster ammunition. A
ttle sun-clesniny robot rolls over towards you, “Hi!
Nice day. Clean vour gun?’

You push it to one side as you enter the room. A
brief search reveals littlhe more than one hand-
grenade, which you keep. You may use this once.
When vou use it against a foe (or foes), throw three
dice and deduct the total from the stamina of aif the
opponents present,

There’s nothing else in the room, so you go back to
the intersection and down the main cormidor. Turn

ti) 340.

107
You jump atthe largered lever. Test your Luck. If you
are successful, turn to 29; othersvise turn to 68.

108

The figure smashes into a thousand pieces when
you shoot it. [he other Babbet laughs, turns to the
left and opens fire, enigmatically, away from you.
To your horror, blaster shells come tearing through
the folding sereen and smash inte your body. The
figures were reflections! The gangster was hiding
behind the screen all along. You sink to the floor,
your wounds making an irremovable stain in the
plush pile of the carpet. You have failed.
109-110

109

You take up station just across the road in the
shadow of a shop doorway. The light on the fourth
floor goes out after fifteen minutes. Nothing hap-
pens for about five minutes; then, with no warning,
six huge —realiy huge — thugs come out of nowhere
to confront you.

“Ere, you, Vanque head.’

‘What?’ you say.

‘This . . .” They grab you and, as they say, pro-
ceed to beat you to a pulp. Eventually, they leave
you alone. After recovering consciousness some
time later, you drag yourself off to receive some
medical attention and rest. Lose 2 STAMINA points
permanently. With the new day, you head off to the
library to look up Z. Gross. Turn to 80.

110
‘Hey, you, stop!’ one of the men yells, as you move
towards the stairs. Damn! Seen. You go down the
stairs, open the door, andare confronted by another
two men with drawn blasters. You will have to fight
them.

SKILL STAMINA

THUG1 6 8
THUG2 5 8
If vou defeat thern, turn to 91.

i1i—-112

111
‘Today, in fact,” he continues, ‘some stuff arrived
- -and will probably go through Customs tomor-
Tow.” Well, you don’t know exactly where the stuff
is coming from, so there’s no point in flying out to
the islands yet. So will you pay customs a visit on
the morrow (turn to 337), or (ry to find someone else
in the space industry who may know about illegal
traffic (turn to 384)?

ii2

‘Ha!’ you say defiantly. “You don’t scare me!’
‘Pity,’ she says. “OK, Brak an’ Johnny”
“Yeah?

"Kill the dummy.’

Thisis the end of the road. Thelast thing you hear or
see is Brak cocking his gun before pulling the trig-
eer. You have failed.
113-115

113

The driver, m response to your frantic waving, pulls
over to the side of the road. “What?’ he asks in
astonishment when you drag him from the car.

‘Hev . . . wait!” he yells, when you hurl his vehicle
into a wide arcand set off after the escaping villains.

Looks like you've had a bit of luck, anyway, as the
ground car you are in is a small, powerful six-
wheeled sport model with twin gas turbines.
Should be able to pull a few hundred kilometres an
hour with this.

You Hick on the traffic radar — picking the sloop up
ahead — and accelerate to 200 k.p.h. If you stopped
to shoot before waving this car down, tum to 389;
otherwise furn to 202.

114
After a few more days of non-discovery you give up
and return to Kether to look the city over for possi-
ble leads. Turn to 75.

115
The turbines give a magnificent amount of power,
pushing you effortlessly down the slope to within
three metres of the sloop. You start pounding on
your horn to unnerve them. The twocars dive intoa
wood. The road becomes quite curvy, necessitating
@ reduction in speed- You could try to ram the car
from behind and send it into a tree — it is a heavier
vehicle than yours and will probably be harder to
control in these conditions. Will you try to push it
off the road (turn to 222), or not (turn to 76)?
116-118

116
lt digesis your guess and then fires its blasters at
you. ‘Wrang one, buddy,’ it cackles. You will have
to fire at it.
SKILL STAMINA

ROBOT SENTRY 8 4
if you defeat it, turn to 38.

117
You slide your ship into the main dock area, parking
nexi to an interplanetary shuttle. When you open
the airlack you find a small spherical droid in front
of you. Little rockets on its surface send it darting
from side to side whilc it fires at you with pulsing
red lasers. You will have to fire at it.

SKILL STAMINA

DEFENCE DROID 9 4

lf you defeat il, turn to 156.

118
You receive an electric shock from the door. It does
not open, Lose 1 point of stamina and then retum
to 225.

119-120

119
You are in an office area and there, not two metres
from you, is a video link to the Centre's files.
Hastily, you begin to retrieve information from it.
Turn to 393.

120

‘Yes, of course you can look,’ she says. “Allhis other
papers were kept in the drawer over there.” She
points to 2 bureau. You leaf through the few scraps
that lie in the bottom of the drawer—a catalogue of
home appliances, a few notes to himself to remind
him to pick up dinner or such, a couple of bills,
invoices for various harmless articles and one piece
of print-out which looks like it came from a telex:

000561402

UAB? QUERT SATCOM XX597134XX END

UAX: CUT
The mteresting thing about this print-out is the
hand-scrawled message on the back:

Zera

Kalensus says he wants a bigger drink
for his Customs boys.

Clive

Of course the Customs would be in it. This Kalensus
must be their boss. Will you meet Mrs Torus later
when she has had time to get the documents from
the bank (turn to 44), or pay the Customs a visit and
lean heavily on this guy Kalensus (turn to 142)?
121-123

121
You discover an alarm which would have been
triggered had you simply opened the window. You
casily disarm it. Climbing through the window, you
find a short corridor which ends in a tiny bare room.
Turn ty 365.

i22
As the beast towers over you, you remember what
was written on the plaque, and scream it out:

‘Tidden is he,

Mighty is he,

Hiis time returns,

Hold, wait, be still!’
The monster hovers in the air and begins a weird
wlulating cry:

‘Misled you have been,

In the wrong place, you are,
With the Customs officials you should bef

Turn to 161.

123
You make it. The guard checks the locker you were
in and moves on down the row. Eventually he
leaves the area altogether. Turn to 357-

124-125

124
The villains’ sloop is only ninety metres away when
it disappears from sight in a wood. The trees are
thick and low — it is impossible to tell whether the
road will remain relatively straight or not.

Will you try to close the gap by accelerating (turn to
85), or play it safe by staying + the same speed (turn to

76)?

f= ce oo
a Pe

125
The files are useless, but the vidilink, once you work
out how to tumiton, isa goldmine. It flashes up one
message continually:

**** ATTENTION ALL STAFF****
THE FEDS ARE ON TO US 50 DESTROY ALL FILES
INCLUDING THIS MESSAGE.RENDEZYOUS —
PARADISE, 34 16’ 42" WEST, 16.00’ 01" NORTH AT
21-30. BE EFFICIENT.

ZERA GROSS + BLASTER DABBET.

Good-oh! Later, after you have left the office, it
turns out that the co-ordinates are those of a tiny
island some 4,000 kilometres off the coast of the
mainland. Tum to 330-
126-127

126

You leave the room via another door and find
yourself in what is obviously a command room —
huge vidiscreens and floor-to-ceiling computer
banks adorn the walls. Vidilinks are set around at
irregular intervals. [t all ticks over and flashes quict-
ly to itself. The screens show production figures of
Satophil-d in tonnes per month; arrival and depar-
ture times of helijet flights between the island and
mainland; and the exact location of the asteroid on
which all of the drugs are manufactured. This is
obviously not the complete operation: what you
need to take out now is the production asteroid.
Turn to 87.

127

You take ont a few tablets of the drug and dodge
towards the bridge, bright gashes of electrons danc-
ing around you. When you are close to the alien,
you throw the Satophil-d into its gapingly huge
mouth and duck back ta the dawr. The monster
stops firing, chews a bit, squats on its haunches and
then slips over into the pit. Turn to 49.

Vr “~\ x ae ;

-
ys J
\—— —_

ir

;
—— ©
128-129

128

The man is busy stripping bits and pieces from one
of the helijet's motors when you approach and
speak to him. ‘Quiet day, isn’tit?’ you say. He grins
and continues to work: ‘Yep, sure is. Rest of the
week, though, it’s go, go, go.’ You continue in this
vein for a few more minutes before you mention
that you've heard thata lot of illegal air traffic comes
through here undetected.

‘Ha! Undetected my foot. Those guys in traffic
control just don’t report it.’ He pulls a large section
of motor out, ‘And not just here either. Over at the
other heliport, by the starport, they‘re just as bad.”

‘Oh?’

‘Yup, somebody's hiding something. Probably
the Air-traffic Chief over at the starport—everything
goes through him.’

Well, whole new avenues! You can try and verify
this man’s information by doing some research,
either at the City Library (tur to 80), or the State
Computer File Centre (turn to 246). Or you could go
to air-traffic control, cither at this heliport (turn to
167) or at the starport (turn to 89).

129
You are dragged off to the proctor 11Q, where all
your identification is taken away. Your daims that
you are a Federal Investigator fall on deaf ears.
Eventually, you are tried, and sent to prison. You
have failed.

130-131

130

You throw the chiefaround the room so hard thathe
stumbles and falls. Leaning over him, you insert
your blaster’s barrel in one of his ears. “Now, if you
don’t tell me everything you know, you might not

even make it as far as the jailhouse. Just disappear,’
you whisper.

"No... no. . . the Customs officer— Zac Kalensus—
he pays me to doit... and! think there are some
files for a few space flights to and from the asteroids
that. . . that have to destroy too. . . not just from
the islands” Turn to 111.

131

You hang around in the city, frequenting bars,
dives, cheap hotels and even looking for likely
persons in the vidiphone directory. Test your Luck. If
you are successful, turn to 4; otherwise turn to 92,
132-133

132

Just as you reach the exit, the doors slamshut witha
temfic Boom. Oh, oh. Trapped! Turning, you see a
monstrous serpentine figure with 4 woman's face
forming in the flame over the pedestal. It sprouts a
couple of dozen scaly legs from behind its face,
tums blue and begins to laugh at you. You notice
that its mouth is full of steel fangs. A couple of
jeather wings grow from its back. Frantically, but
vainly, you try to open the doors. [he beast leaves
the flame, advances towards you, and grabs you
with a few ofits legs. Will you shoot atit (tum te 93),
or fry to speak with it (turn to 54)?

133
Unknown to vou, your jacket has caught ona spring
in the door of the locker. Pimy, it goes, when you
accidentally pull it free. ‘Hey, you,’ says the guard,
noticing you, ‘stop’ He is drawing his blaster. Will
you stop (furn to 55), or rin (turn fo 94)?

134-136

134

Slowing down, you maintain control. The car stays
on the road, although it squeals around the corners.
You have lost sight of the villains’ sloop in the trees-
A side-road approaches to the right. Did they go
down this or continue on the main road? Will you go
down the side-road (turn to 95), or straight on (turn
to 56)?

135
Your car leaps forward and smashes into the rear of

the sloop, giving the necessary impetus to send it
out of control. It fishtails off the road and then flips
over and over and over, violently rolling to a halt a
hundred metres further on. You pull over tothe side
of the road. ‘Turn to 359.

136
Your choice is wrong, evidently, as the machine
opens fire on you. Turn to 97.

137-138

137
Roll two dice. If the result is higher than or equal to

your SKILL, turn to 98. If the result is less than your
SKILL, turn to 59.

138

You take a dive down a narrow alley and sprint
away, leaving the assassin behind. However, you
did manage to catch a good look at his face — good
enough to recognize him if you saw him again. So
you go to the dome town's starportand, finding the
Arrivals desk unattended, slip behind it, seat your-
self at the passport vidilink, and Inok through all the
recent arrivals. There he is! Arrived about a week
ago —a Mr B. Smith; age, 34; occupation, librarian;
place of work, City Central Library...

‘Ahem,’ says a voice behind you, ‘what do you
»
‘Sorry,’ you say, quickly flashing your Federal
Investigator badge at the Arrivals clerk, ‘police . -
er. . . proctor matters.”

Will you continue your search on Rispin‘s End (turn
to 99), or go back to Kether for a bit of research at the
library there {turn to Be)?

139-141

159
As soon as you begin to move, they fire. The deadly
hail hits you, and forces you to the ground. You
have failed.

140

There are a lot of files, so you pick a few out at
random. Only one of them yields anything interest-
ing. It is concerned with an asteroid known 2s
C230 and the occurrence of a fairly large amount of
unauthorized traffic hetween it and Kether. The
file does not state or hypothesize any possible
reasons for this, Throw a die. If the result is even,
turn to 101; if odd, turn io 62.

143

You float cautiously into the hall and take up a place
behind a row of black-clad figures, who throng the
hall. ‘Here,’ says one of them, noticing you. Who
are you?’ The others, turning to see, move rapidly,
seize you and bear you to the front of the hall. “A
toy! A toy!’ is chanted throughout. A short while
later you lose your life in a rather peculiar religious
ceremony, You have failed.

142-145

142

You find the office of the Head Customs Officer,
ZAC KALENSUS, it says on a little brass plate next to
the entrance. You turn the door-handle and kick it
open. Standing next to an open window is Mr
Kalensus, memo in hand, surprise on his face. You
point your pistol at him and say, icily, “OK, Zac
baby, start talking about this little dig racket you're
in on or I'll have to start pumping with my trigger
finger.” Test your Luck. If you are successful, turn to
64; otherwise turn to 103.

You manage to draw yourself to a halt only a short
distance from the satellite. Another short burst and
you should reach it. Roll two dive. [f the result is
higher than or equal to your SKILL, turn to 104, If the
resultis less than your SKILL, turn to 221.

144
Your bumper hits them firmly, catapulting thesloop
towards the side of the road- Test your Luck. lf you
are successful, turn to 66; otherwise turn ta 105.

145
The monster is dead. Stepping past its body, you
find yourself at an intersection in a cormidor. The
main passage continues straight on, while a nar
rower corridor goes to the nght. Which way?
Straight on (turn to 340}, or right (turn to 106)?
146-147

146

You go down the tunnel, through an airlock and
into a tiny cone-shaped room. An iris airlock at the
other end — which happens to be the big end -
Opens, revealing empty space! The atmosphere in
the room begins to rush out, taking you withit. You
are in a garbage disposal room. Will you hold on to
the airlock door behind you until the rush of air
stops (turn to 390), or make a clive forthe emergency
stop lever next to the open iris lock (turn to 107)?

147
You jump through the folding screen. Babbet is

standing behind it, facing the opposite wall — the
two figures were simply reflections of the real article
in hiding. You tackle him, The hyo of you roll across
the thick carpet, wrestling and trading punches in
hand-to-hand combat.

SKILL STAMINA
‘BLASTER’ BABBET mW i)

If you defeat him, tum to goo.

148

You give chase, [he woman, despite her weight and
age, is quite fast—not fast enough, though. You run |
in the shadows and it becomes evident, after z
couple of minutes, that she believes she has lost
you, She goes once around the block and then
darts into a five-storey apartment building. A few
moments later a light comes on on the fourth floor.
Stepping up to the block’s porch, you consult the
residents’ address list. Just five names, one per
floor. The fourth floor is taken by a ZERA GROSS,
IMPORT/EXPORT.

bn

You can either wait outside the apartment to see if”
anything develops (turn to 109), or you could callitz
day and spend tomorrow doing a bit of research at
the City Central Library to find out a bil more about

+

this Zera Gross (turn to 80}-

149-150

149
The door opens on to some stairs. You climb them

end find yourself on a raised freight landing; above
are doors for a helijet to enter the building and
Selow is a storehouse. A door in the storehouse
opens and two men enter. Will you lie down in an
sttempt to remain hidden {turn to 52), or try to
escape from the landing by going back down the
Stairs {turn to 110)?

150

The block is almost completely deserted. However,
you do manage to find two off-duty pilots hanging
around the Flight Service Centre.

‘What?’ they say, cowering, when you ask them
2bout the existence of any illegal space traffic.

‘Don’t know a thing,’ says one.

‘Nothing,’ says the other.

‘Well,’ says the first to the second. ‘I must be off!’

‘Yes,’ replies number two, ‘so must I! They scoot
off down a corridor.

Very unsatisfactory. Will you continue your in-
quiries at the starport hangars (turn to 306), orin the
aty (turn to 189)?

151-152

151
You find yoursel in a plush room — either a library
or a study. Books on real wooden shelves line the
walls. There is real wooden furniture, heavy and
smoky with long years. Behind a massive desk sits
an equally massive but certainly uglier woman, She
smiles, gap-toothed, at you. “You gave us quite a
turn, you did, dropping out of space all unexpected
like. Isn't that so, boys?’ She looks around at the
other gangsters who are lolling about on the rest of
the furniture, cigarettes dangling from their lips,
and bleary, boozy eyes fixed disinterestedly on you.

“Yeah,” they answer.

‘We don’t have Federal Investigators visiting our
ttle planet at all often. Do we, boys?° she asks
azain.

‘Nah.’

Suddenly, she leans forward, staring at you. Her
voice is icy: “You have hwo choices, Narc. Hither you
go to a meeting that we've arranged for you, to pick
up a box of documents for us, orelse. . .’ Will vou
agree to go tothe mecting (turn to 35), or take the ‘or
else’ (turn to 112)?

: i
adn +e oO ee

weit
" n
oh Vy Ae eee ee “ysce = Vale
9 oh
“ . oe ~

I
-
a
=“
-

‘4
*
r

‘
¢

152
Kneeling, you fire half a dozen quick shots at the
sloop before it disappears over a hill. Missed! You
still have time, though, to wave the other car to a
stop and commandeer it for a chase, Turn to 113,

153-154

153
lor a few days you have your computer eavesdrop
on all the electromagnetic traffic transmitted
through space by artificial means. While your shipis
doing this, you make a visual search of the surface of
Kether. On the fifth day your computer alerts you to
the presence of a large communications satellite in
an Li6orbit. Itreceives signals irregularly and trans-
mits a response shortly after — not to the source of
the incoming signal but towards Kether. It uses 2
unidirectional antenna for transmission, but some
leakaye allowed your computer to detect it.

The suspicious part is the size of the satellite, its
infrequent use and the fact that it always transmits
to only one building in Kether’s capital atv. It could
be a Defence Department satellite, but. . . Will you
go and look at it (turn to 377), or disregard it and
continue your surveillance (turn to 114)?

154
The sloop is now too metres ahead and accelerating
through a wide curve before a long straight. On the
left you can see a side-road approaching — it may
afford a slight short cut to the straight that the sloop
is heading for. Will you take this side-road (turn t
261), or remain on the main road (turn to 202)?

oo oN
6 Se rss : =
aS
\S ) ead
¥ wg.

——

4155-157

ot vA
155
Turn to 116.
156

The sparking remains of the droid float in the
vacuum. You leave the sparse dock area via an
aitlock and proceed towards the centre of the aster-
oid through a zero-gravity tunnel. Turn ta 195-

157
You receive an electric shock from the door. It does
not open. Lose 1 point of STAMINA and then return
tO 225.

158

158

Under a hefty shoulder, the door collapses. Inside,
on the floor, in a pool of blood, is the man you were
supposed to meet — shot. His eyes open and he
crooks a finger at you in an attempt to call you over.
‘Beware,’ he whispers when you are coser. “Beware
of. . .of Zera Grossand,..and.. .BlasterB.. 2
Tle expires, the last words too much for him. You
search his body and find a wallet and a letter. The
wallet identifies the man as being Arthur Flange of
no fixed address. The letter is from a friend or
acquaintance of his. It reads:

Dear Arti,
Re our plans. 7.. doesn't suspect yet. We must work
out Hie final details. Meet me at the Café Heroes of
the Federation on Thursday at 9 a.m.
Clive Torus

Will you go to mect Clive tomorrow in place of
Arthur (furn to 315), or go to the City Central
Library to look up this Zera Gross that Arthur
mentioned — her name might be raised in a case list
somewhere (turn to 80)?

os ee

159-161

159
You arrange to meet Mrs Torus by the greenhouses

in the Botanic Gardens, when she has had time to
get the documents from the bank. Turn to 44.

160
You approach a small side-window. Koll two dice. If
the result is higher than or equal to your SKILL, tum
to $2. Ifthe resultis less than yourskiLt, turn to12z1.

161

‘Now,’ it cries, turning white as a sheet, *begone!’
The doors open and you are sent flying by some
mysterious force into the corridor beyond. The
doors slam shut. Will you continue to explore the
asteroid (tum te 346), or return to Kether and either
go to investigate the Customs officials (turn to 337)
or search for some other clue (turn to 231)?
162-163

162

‘Hmmm,’ he muses after packeting the cash. T guess
it’s about time for my coffee break. Bye.’ He strolls
off, out of sight. Will you yo back into hiding (tum to
357}, or assume that the guard will tell somebody of
your presence? If you assume the latter, then you
will have to leave the starport and search for a new
clue (turn to 231).

163

You brake just in time, for there, over the crest, isa
tight hairpin bend. The sports car's six wheels
squeal slightly as it whips around the comer and
flies on toa long, straight downhill slope. The sloop
is about 100 metres in front. Will you push the car
faster (turn to 115), or stay at your present speed
(turn to 124)?

164-165

164

The vidilink is broken and the files are just meaning-

less rows of numbers. You continue your desultory
search through the remnants of the office for a
while, but eventually give up. Turn to 203.

165
Zera is immobile. The vidilink is on fire; the desk is
riddled with bullets. Looking around, you find no
thing of note within the raom. Tum to 126.

166-167

166

Tou enter a room which has gravity. Before you isa
wide, deep pit spanned by a narrow bridge with no
Sandrail. On the bridge stands a tripedal alien hold-
mg electric bracers in each of its three paws. It is
considering you with three eyes. Thankfully, it has
only one mouth, albeit a very large one. ‘Halt,’ it
says, and then, without waiting to see if you da,
Sres several bright bolts of electrons at you. If vou
posscss any Satophil-d, turn to 127; otherwise turn
to 88.

167
The terminus is largely empty, with only a few staff
about. You make your way to the control sector of
the building, where you find a pair of off-duty
dir-traffic controllers drinking some brown goop
om a machine in one of the corners.

Yech’ is the first thing they say to you. ‘Oh. . - oh,
that is really horrible,’ is the second. Introducing
yourself as an off-world travelling salesman, you
168

attempt to engage them in a conversation about the
lack of traffic around the port.

‘Thank the stars,’ says one. “You should see it the
rest of the week. Phew!’

‘Busy?’

‘Rather.’

Upon your bringing up the subject of unidentified
helijets or illegal traffic, they look at each other,
down their goop and scoot away into the restricted
area of the control sector. ‘Gotta go.” ‘Bye-bye’
They are gone: suspicious behaviour orjust a reluct-
ance to talk shop? You could find the information
{from other sources, though. You can go to the City
Central Library (turn to 80) or the State Computer
File Centre, which might have air-traffic records
(turn to 246); or, if you haven‘t already, you could
approach the man working on the rental helijets
(turn to 128).

168
He looks contemptuously down his nose at you and
removes his pince-nez. “No, no. That will never do”
He must have pressed an alarm bell with his foot,
because in the next moment several security guards
enter the room and grapple with you. Tum to 129.

ym <3

169-171

169
He looks suitably fightened. ‘Tf’s the Customs
officer, he makes me do it! Don’t send me to jail,
please... please - . ." he pleads. You slap him in
the face.

‘Makes you do what? Come on, you're in yery big
trouble, mister.’

‘He makes me destroy the records for certain
flights...”

‘Which flights?’ you snap.

‘From . . . from the islands.’

‘Which island in particular?’ you ask, simulating
rage and pounding him against the wall.

T. . .I don’t know,’ he cries. ‘We only pick them
up just before they .. . they reach the caast.’ He
collapses into a snivelling heap.

Will you really start slapping him around to see if
he’s hiding anything (turn to 139), or ease off a little
to show him you're human (turn to 72)?

179
They lead you into the manor-house. Turn to 151,

7

You float gently to the floor and move towards the
pedestal. In response, the flame leaps to the ceiling
and changes to a hellish shade of purple. You notice
that two heavy, iron-studded wooden doors in a
wall are open and thus offera means of exit from the
room. Will you investigate the pedestal closer (turn
to 83), or leave via the open doors (turn to 132)?
172-175

172
Slowly, you open the locker doar, slide out and
creep towards an aisle between the next row of
lockers. Roll two dice. If the result is higher than or
equal fo your SKILL, turn to 133. If the result is less
than your $xiLL, turn to 123.

173
You enter the forest at 240 k.p.h_, only to find the
road curving in tight S-bends between thick dumps
of trees. You fight with the stcering-wheel to keep
the car under control. Tesi your Luck. If you are
successful, turn to 134; otherwise turn to 270.

174

You hit them just above the rear mudguard, for-
tuitously locking one of the back wheels, stripping a
differential and sending the massive black cr
through the guard-rail and rolling down the
embankment. It flips, smashes and is still — certainly
a fatal crash. You pull over to the side of the road.
Turn to 359.

) 175
‘Scorpion,’ you answer, The machine does not even
bother to tell you that you were wrong before open-
ing fire on you. Tum to 97.

176
You struggle free. With snapping teeth and writh-
ing tentacles, it pursues you back to the tunnel, bul
follows no further. You decide to try jumping from

sphere to sphere. Turn to 137.

177
Having defeated vour foe, you might as well find
out why he was attacking you. A search of his body
reveals little, though; there is his rifle, a small
mechanical component and a ticket, via Pan-Kether
Spaceways, from Rispin’s End to Kether.

fhe mechanical component, under close examina-
tion, reveals itself to be a pressure bearing from a
helijet. Perhaps his normal job, when he wasn’t
kulling people, was a jet mechanic. You look at his
hands: short nails with grease under them — could
be from cleaning his rifle, though.

The ticket to Kether is made out for a B. Smith,
Stated occupation librarian. There doesn’t seem to
be much point in staying on the moon, so youretum
to Kether. You can either go out to one of the
heliports around the capital (turn to 206), or perhaps
do a bit of research at the library (turn to 80).
175-179

178

The large sliding door is unlocked and pushes open
easily, revealing a quite dark interior; the shadowy
genes of crates and, in front of you, a ground car

are barely defined. Quietly and carefully, rou creep

inside, Suddenly, six or severt men jump out from
behind the crates with blasters pointing at you. One
of them yells, ‘Sfop? Will you freeze where you are
‘turn to 100), or take a gamble and dive for cover
(tum to139)?

I
they are unlocked ek consi mainly junk —
mainly, but not completely, for there, undera pile of .
nt paperclips and rusting staples, is a ‘gem’. Itisa
letter from the Head Customs Officer to the Air-
traffic Chief:

Dear Aestho,
Here's your cheque. Note that today’s flight from
the east const — No. 212 — was ‘unusual’ and should
be wortiten off as per the others. Contents will he
cleared tomorrot, so tomorrow's shuttle to ‘Tau Celt
No. 005 —skould also be written off.

a : 41

Zac Kelersus

The cheque is for 3,000 kopecks! Will vou pay a visit
to Customs (turn tO 337), or try to find someone
in the space industry w ho might know about the
legal traffic (fo Tat: Ceti, for instance) hinted at
in the letter (turn to 384)?

180-183

180
Test your Luck. If you are successful, turn ‘o 102;
otherwise turn to 141.

181

He caches the extra 2,000 away in a shirt pocket and
signals you closer. “lop floor of the Isosceles Tower,
in the city," he whispers. ‘That's their nerve centre.’
He then mumbles something abaut being out of a
job and mishes back into the freight depot, out of
sight. You could check out this tip by going to the
Tsasceles Tower (turn to 320), or follow up his first
clue by looking for the satellite (furn to 36).

182
You are not far from your goal, butina slow spim, so
the white vapour from the jets tumbles at an odd
angle. If you're not careful you'll miss the satellite
completely. Roll two dice. Ifthe resultis higher than
or equal to yoursKILL, turn to104. Ifthe resultis less
than your $k111, tum to 143-

183
You misplaced your bumper on the side of the other
vehicle, The collision sends your car sideways, off
the road and sailing into a tree at 160 k-p.h. You
have failed.

a
2S

*
**

184-186

184
fis an Androform, constructed in the shape of a
Rerce hound. You will have to fight the machine
hand to hand.

ANDROFORM SKILL Q STAMINA 8
if you defeat it, turn to 145.
185

The exit leads you down another zero-gravity tun-
nel to.a crossroads. You have three tunnels to
choose from.

Straight ahead Turn to 293
Left Turn to 332
Right Turn to 146
Mo .
al
186
Which door button will you press;
Front? Turn to 79
Back? Turn to 40
Left? Turn to 381
Right? Turn to 342
Up? Turn to 303
Down? Turn to 264
187

You give chase but, for all her fat and age, the
woman is amazingly fleet of foot — you lose sight of
her down a side-street. Luck is on your side in one
way, hosvever. In her rush to escape, she dropped
her bag, which contains 500 kopecks and a small
number of business cards, all of which read:

Z. CROSS
STELLAR AND INTERPLANETARY
IMTPORT/IXPORT

Strangely, there is no vidinumber or address_ Still,
it's something to go on, You return to your ship anc
decide, the next day, to go to the City Central
Library to see if there is anything to find out con-
cerning this Z. Gross. Turn to 80.

188-189

188

Circling around towards the back of the hangar-
sized warehouse, you discover a small door partly
hidden behind some piles of rubbish. You force this
entrance rather easily. In front of you is a short
corridor which endsin two doors, indistinguishable
from each other. You approach the doors. Which
will you go through: the left (149) or the right (3)?

189

In the city you find a few interstellar and inter-
planetary shipping agencies to ask some questions
of — all of which give unsatisfactory replies. While
you are in a sandwich bar, picking up some lunch
between agencies, you are confronted by two men—
each holding a blaster no more than fifteen centi-
metres from vour belly. ‘Come with us,’ they say,
‘or we will kill you,’ You'd have no chance of escape
at this distance. You go with them out the back of
the shop. Turn to 316,
190-191

190

The conduit heads further into the asteroid untl
you find your way blocked by an enormous mainte-
nance and pest-killing robot. Its three eyes swivel to
watch you approach, It flicks a tentative laser blast
at you to see if you fall into the ‘pest’ category thatit
holds in its machine mind. There’s no way past,
even if you destroyed it, and, as it begins to lumber
towards you, it may even pose a threat. You return
to the grille overlooking the room, push it open
and enter. Turn to 173.

Sint f

192

You run out on to the road, narrowly being missed
by a carload of picnickers — out fora jolly time in the
gardens, The black sloop is tearmg down the street,
past another car which is heading toward you. Will
you shaot at the villains’ car (turn to 152), or try to
flag the other car down so as to give chase (turn to
113)?

/
\

192-194

192

Yourocket into a high orbit around Kether. Test your
Luck. If you are successful, turn to 153; otherwise
num to 414.

193
You slide along the shoulders, but retain a grip on
the road with the other three wheels. The car sling-
shots out of the S-bend at a terrific pace and ends up
only three metres behind the sloop. Turn to 378.

194

Turn to 216-

195-196

195
The tunnel ends in a large cylindrical chamber,
floating in front of you, blocking your passage, isa
device constructed of four cubes set in the shape of
an X with a cubic hole in the centre. Bright blue bolts
of electricity fly between the cubes through the
central hole. With a low hum, it begins to approach.
the flashing becomes more frequent and begins to
ssh out towards you in great electric ares. Will you
fre at this device with your blaster (turn to 78), try to
dive past it (turn to 39), or take a flying leap at it to
hit it with your boots and thus (hopefully) send it
out of control (furn to 380)?

196

_ You receive an electric shock from the door. It does
not open. Lose 1 point of sramina and then return
to 225.
197-198

197

You run down the stairwell, but by the time you
reach ground level and launch yourself into the
street the man is nowhere to be seen. You have los
him, Suddenly, a scream comes from above you:
‘Murder! Just what you need. Withm seconds, proc
tor helijets descend fram the sky, landing in the
street and on the hotel's roof. Another helijet
hovering between the surrounding buildings, fixes
a room on the twelfth floor — most certainly i120: ~
with a spotlight. Proctors, procs, cops — call them
what you will—seem to be everywhere.

Not knowing if the local procs can be trusted, you
decide to lie low. Next day, you head off to the Gity
Central Library to see if anything can be found out
about the man you saw running down the stairs —2
least you know what he looks like. Turn to 80.

x Ee es,
—_—
<.

198
‘Good-day, Mrs Torus, I am an Investigator from
Federal Central (Vice). Could I have a word with
your husband?’ you ask in your most official voice.
She looks up and down the street and then ushers
you in.

199

‘Clive ... Clive’s dead,’ she cries, bursting into
tears. They killed him!’

Who, Mrs Torus, who?

Tiis mates, the people he worked with. He didn’t
want to work for them any more so .., 50 they
killed him."

You discover from her that her husband took care of
2 lot of the accounts for Zeta Gross (his boss,
evidently}, and that these accounts were kept by
Clive in a safety-deposit box at one of the banks in
the city. They are still there. ‘1. . . can get them for
you, if you like,’ she says-

‘Yes, that would be very useful, thank you.’ Clive
may have kept other incriminating documents
around the house— perhaps vou should ask his wife
if you could look through his personal papers? She
looks very upset though. Will you ask her (turn to
129) or not (turn to 159)?

199

Circling through the trees, you let the sounds of
pursuit pass you — heading for the security fence, no
doubt. Before you is the house, a rambling two-
Storey structure in the style of Neo-starquest Colo-
nial. Quite tasteless, really. Asitis becoming fairly
dark, you could try climbing on to the roof to look
for 2 way in (turn to 43), or simply force a ground-
floor window or door (furn to 160).
200
‘Now,’ it cries, turning as white as a sheet, “begone”’
The doors open and you are sent flying by some
mysterious force into the corridor beyond. The
doors slam shut. Will you continue to explore the
asteroid (turn to 346), ar assume that you're in the
wrong part of space and head back to Kether (tum
to 231)?

‘Turn 1o 162,

The sloop flies down the straight and disappears
over a hump-backed hill. You cannot see what
happens to the road past the crest. Will you assume
that the road continues straight and take the crest at
high speed (turn to 309), or will you anticipate a
corner and slow down a bit (turn to 163)?

203-205

™
al
e-4

é

Os

203
There is another door at the other end of the office.
You go through it, down a short corridor and then
through vet another door. Turn to 86.

204
Using her massive bulk, she beats you into insensi-
bility. The last thing you hear is her fiendish cackle

and “Har, har. Stupid narc. . .’ You have failed.

205

The corridor leads to a small storeraom whete,
evidently, the finished Satophil-d is packaged prior
to shipment to Kether. Large quantities in both
powder and tablet form are present. You may take a
small amount as evidence if you wish. Ifso, add it ta
your Equipment List. Leaving the store, you go back
into the laboratory and through the other exit. Turn
to 166.

206-207

206

You take a cab out to the heliport on the aty out
skirts. It is a large desolate slab of concrete under a
harsh sun with a few low buildings rising at what
you supposeis the terminus. Nothing moves. There
are a couple of rental helijets grouped by a hutanda
few service yehicles parked next to the terminus. A
man comes oul of the hut and proceeds te work on
one of the helijets, opening its turbines for Inspec-
tion. You could either direct a few questions at this
man from the rental company (ium to 128), or go to
the terminus (turn to 167),

207

You approach the receptionist, a seemingly
pleasant fellow with pince-nez. Td itke to look ata
few files, if 1 may?’ ‘Oh, yes,’ he says, greedily
rubbing his hands together. ‘What century would
you like, hmmm!’ ‘Oh, this century, just the last few
years, actually," yousay, nonchalantly. He begins to
bob up and down in agitation. “Ah, no. I'm afraid
we can't let you see them. - .” Will you now hold
cut 1,1xx1 kopecks under his nose (turn to 168) or
2,000 {turn to 373)?

208-209

3

You withdraw your blaster from its holster, stick the
barrel in his face and push him around, He slams
against a wall and slides to the floor. ‘Lama Federal
Narcotics Investigator and T hear, Mr Aijir-traffic
Controller, that you've got something to hide. Out
with it! Everything you know,” you say in an icy
voice. Test your Lick. If you are successful, turn to
169; otherwise furn to 33-

209
One of the gunmen, although off balance, manages
to fap you up with a kick to your shins. You fall. ‘T
wouldn't try that again, sunshine,’ says a scar-faced

thug, sticking = the barrel of his gunin your ear, They

rough you up a bit before dragging you to your feet,
Turn to 170.

210-211

219

You see, too late, that she is dead. The sloop has
disappeared from view. Looks like you need a new
clue now. Turn to 2314.

211

The freight depot is quite enormous, but you finda
row of lockers in which you can hide and sill get a
good view of any comings and goings. You share a
locker with a couple of greatcoats and a pin-up —the
depot can be seen through a few’ ventilation slots.
After a short while, you notice, to your dismay, a
khaki-clad security officer, armed with a gigantic
blaster, checking your row of lockers. He opens
each one in turn, slowly approaching the one you
are hiding in. Will you try to move from your locker
without being seen (turn to 172), or stay where you
are, hide behind a coatand hope he doesn’t find you
{turn to 84)?

212-215

212

The road and sloop disappear into a woad, 300
metres ahead. There is no telling what happens to
the road in there. Will you accelerate to catch up
(turn to 173), or stay at the same speed (turn to 46)?

213

Unfortunately, the sloop is bigger and heavier than
your vehicle and your inexpert side-swipe leaves
you open to retaliation ofa like kind. The behernoth
bears down on you, smashing your car out of con-
trol and through the guard-rail. Your car rolls
violently down the embankment, stopping at the
bottom to explode. You have failed.

214
“Antares,” you answer, The machine lowers itself to
the floor and says, just before shutting itself down,
‘Correct, Pass.’ Turn to 58.

215
You cannot break free, and the monster sets its teeth
in you. You have failed.
216-218

216
You take cover behind the scooter and draw yaur
pistol. The assassin is lying on the ground firing a
high-powered rifle.

ASSASSIN skit 8 STAMINA 6
+ you defeat him, turn to 177.
217

You enter the warehouse grounds. Will you enter
the building via the large main entrance at the front
‘turn to 178), or have a look around the outside first
(turn to 188)?

s CN oe
<= ——s _
vy > = T = 3
= pr wee ae a —-
Sin
218

The office is empty, bar the usual equipment and
furniture. You probably won't have very long, so
will you search on the vidiin the room for his private
computer files (turn to 140), or go through his desk
drawers instead (hurn to 179)?
219-220

219
The ramp leads, perhaps fortuitously, to a balcony
overlooking the great hall. Itis packed with a throng
of black-robed figures. They begin to chant and
sway, A couple of men out in front swing buming
incense in great circles. Soon, a man, obviously the
MC, high priest or such, appears out in front and
begins a long prayer to some holy malevolence
known as Thuvald. Obviously, you have the wrong
place — this is a monastery, a weird one no doubt,
but still a monastery. You sneak out of the balcony,
away from C230 and head back to Kether. Turn to
231.

220

‘Fine,’ he says, taking the money. “What do vou
want to know?’

‘Drugs,’ you say. “Where do they come from, and
who do they go to?’ He looks a bit uneasy about this
topic, ‘Well, I. . .ldon'tknow much about that, but
] think it’s got something to do with a satellite in an
1.16 orbit. Irregular transmissions . . . you might try

looking for it..."

221

‘Transmissions to whom?’ you ask.
He rubs his fingers together. ‘For another 2,000
kopecks I might be able to help you,’ he says.

Will you pay him another 2,000 (turn to 181), or give
up on him and find another Customs official, but
this time try a bit of rough stuff (turn ti 142)?
Alternatively, you could Jook for the satellite that he
mentioned (turn to 36).

221

You reach the satellite safely and attach a magnetic
clamp to it, to prevent you from drifting away into
space. You remove a communications cable from
your pack, open a service panel on the side of the
satellite and altach the cable to a diaynostic inlet on
the satellite’s computer. Now you can determine its
function, where it receives its transmissions from
and where it sends them on to.

Returning to your ship, you find thal the satellite
receives from an unknown asteroid and transmits to
the tap floor of the Isosceles Tower in the centre of
Kether’s capital. The messages arte all concerned
with shipments of the drug Satophil-d from the
asteroid to the planet. Pity you don’t know where
this asteroid is, but you do know where the Isos-
celes Tower is. You return to Kether. Turn to 320.
222-224

222

You scrape bumpers with it and plant your foot as
you hit a curve, Roll two dice. If the result is higher
than or equal to your SKILL, turn to 183. Hf the result
is less than your SKILL, turn to 144.

225
‘Nice dog, hey? Who's a nice dog?’ you simper,
while holding out a hand to it. It slavers, opens its
massive mai, and bites your arm. Lose 1 point of
SKILL. Turn to 184-

224

You misjudge badly, and the sentinel reacts sharply
by moving in such a way that you fly through the
hole in the centre of the four cubes. While you are
doing this il covers the hole with sheets of lightning.
You are fried.

225-226

225

Which door button will you press;
Front? Turn to 118
Back? Turn to 157
Left? Turn to 196
Right? Turn to 235
Down? Turn to 274
Up? Turn to 313
226

As you jump from behind a ground car into a
shadow by a building, you trip over a small motor
unicycle left in the middle of the sidewalk. There isa
tremendous crash as it falls over. The woman, look-
ing round, sees you. She starts ninning down the
street. Roll two dice. Lf the result is higher than or
equal to your SKILL, turn to 187. If the result is less
than your SKILL, turn to 148.

2277228

227

Cautiously, you approach him. ‘I'm Clive Torus.
We may be able to do some business together,’ he
says rather furtively. “Oh yes? How?" you reply,
warily. “Meet me at the Café Heroes of the Federa-
tion at nine o’clock, tomorrow morming. We'll talk
there.” He then turns and scuttles off into the bowels
of the warehouse.

You could meet him tomorrow (turn to 315), or,
knowiny that the thugs are expecting a shipment
from the asteroids that evening, you could try to
find somebody in the space industry who may
know something about illegal space traffic (turn te

384).

228
Tllegal space traffic?’ he muses, turning a few
switches on the panel in front of him. “Yes, a bit of
that goes on around here. . .sol'mtold~ You press
him to be more Specific. “Well,” he says, looking
around to make certain that no one is listening,
‘there's this asteroid — C230 — out in the main belt,
which has a lot of suspicious comings and goings-
You might try there — the co-ordinaies for it would
bein any Cosmo-Nav.’ Will you take his advice and
have a look at this asteroid (turn to 73), or go back to
the city to try to verify his information (hum to 189)?

229-231

229
The vent ieads through some machinery, a couple of
automatic airlocks and, eventually, into some air-
conditioning conduits. The occupants of the aster-
oid don’t seem to possess any gravity generators,
and you float through the air-conditioning until you
come to an outlet. Looking through the prille you can
see a large rough-hewn room. It is very dim — the
only light comes from a guttering red flame burning
on a pedestal in the centre of the room. Will you
push out the grille and enter the room (tum to 171),
or continue through the air-conditioning (tum to
190)?

230
if you are willing to part with at least 2,000 kopecks,
you can try to bribe a Customs officer for informa-
tion (furn fo 298); otherwise you will have to resort
to a bit of rough stuff on one of them (turn to 142).

231
You have very little to go on really, almost no
options at all. Will you:

Return to Kether’s capital city

to havea look around? Turn to 75
Search in space for a new clue? Tum to 192
Search for C230, assuming you have

heard of it and have not

already sought it out? Turn to 73
232-235

232
You lose control, and shde off the road and across
country fora short distance. The car comes to restin
a bugyy paddack. Your windshield is covered with
mud, badly restricting your visibility. The wind-
shield wipers can hardly move the stuff so, while
you are driving the car, reduce your SKILL by 1.
With wheels spinning, you drive across the slippery
field and back on to the road. Turn to 387.

233
Turn to 146.

234
Behind the door is a room full of pressure-suits and
emergency air-tents. There is nothing of use inside
the asteroid — only out of it, You leave the room and
go back down the tunnel. Turn to 195.

235
You receive an electric shock from the door- lt dots
not open, Lose 1 point of sTammva and then retum
Lo 225,

236

You tap gently on the door. No answer. You tap
again. A groan comes from within. You try the door,
but it is locked. The seconds are ticking away. The
ever more distant sound of steps going down can
still be heard. Will you force your way into the room
(turn to 158), or go in pursuit of the man who just
went down the stairs (turn to 197)?

237
‘Tm one of Clive’s. . . er. . , colleagues,” you say-
*Do you know where he is” Her face twists and she
begins to cry. ‘Oh, why don’t you leave us alone —
go back to Spark’s w here all your filthy mates hang
out. . .”and then slams the door in your face.

Well, well. ‘Spark's’, you discover, is a bar down by
the starport. Might as well go and have a look there.
Tum to 286.
238-240

eel Ea
AY JS

tr, eA £s
——

238

The gunmen are taken by surprise; by the time they
start shouting, you are sprinting across a mini astro-
turf golf course towards a copse of trees. There you
pause: behind you are shots and shouts; in front,
nothing bar the secunty fence. You could escape the
manor-house environs, although the drag mummers
are certain ta abandon the manor once they discover
you have fled, so you will have to look fora new clue
(turn to 231), or you could double back to the house,

break in and find out what's going on (turn to 1g9)-

239
It flaps its great wings to stand upright, considers
you with unnerving malice, and speaks:
‘In the wrong place, you are.

Misled, you have been.
With the Customs officials, you should be.’

Turn to 167.

Turn to 162.

241-244

241

Taking the access road cuts the distance between

the sloop and your car to a mere 100 metres. You
rejoin the main road just as it straightens. Turn to
202.

You pick a few files from the floor and seat yourself
behind a computer vidilink. Roll two dice. If the
result is higher than or equal ta your skitr, turn to
164. Lf the result is less than your SKILL, turn to 125.

243
She lies, whale-like, immobile and exhausted.
‘Zera,’ you say, slapping her face, ‘tell me about the
organization.’ Unfortunately, she is extremely
dazed and can only mumble, ‘Up. - . up, then left
. Turn to 126.

244
You make it to the third sphere. From here you
easily make it to the other exit. Turn to 283.
245-246

245

Crouched low over his beer, as if he is trying to hide
his head in his shoulders, he begins to mutter a
long, paranoid tale about the Tau Cygni threat
{whatever that is). Due to the noise in the bar, and
the nayigator’s dull voice, you miss most of his
monologue and find, when he suddenly and unex-
pectedly reaches the end of his tale, that the only
information you have gleaned from him is his suspi-
cion that something odd is going on at Rispin’s End
and that the fat broad playing cards at the table
behind you has something to do with it. What to
make of that? Will you go out to Rispin’s End (the
moon) to see if anything is to be found (turn to 398),

or will. you keep an eye on the woman at the table
behind you (turn to 343)?

246

The State Computer File Centre is a squat, ugly
rectangle of concrete surrounded by a few kilo-
metres of razor wire, A large metal sign, wired to
one of the fences, flaps lazily in the wind: TRESFas-
SERS PROSECUTED, There is, however, 2 public en-
trance into a tiny pillbox set away from the main
building. You enter this building and notice, to your
dismay, yet another large sign:

ONLY THOSE FILES WHICH ARE MORE TIIAN 100
YEARS OLD WILL BE RELEASED FOR PUBLIC PERUSAL

lt scems that you are going to have to resort to a
felony to get the information you want. Will you fry
bribery (turn to 207), or breaking and entering (tum
to go}?

247-248

247
At the heliport there is a large display of holographs
headed with the slogan:

WE HAVE YOUR COMFORT AND SAFETY IN MIND

the holographs are of all the staff involved in the
cunning of the port. There are, you notice, two
chiefs of air traffic — you make note of what their
smiling countenances look like, hire a ground car,
and wait in the staff car-park. After a few hours one
of the chiefs emerges from the port, climbs into a
ground car and drives off. You follow him home.
When you approach him, will you act tough to
extract the necessary information {turn to 208), or
will you act friendly (turn to 296)?

248

Presently a couple of gunmen appear at the end of
the corridor. They call for you to surrender. You
take a few potshots at them to demonstrate your
resolve. In response, they throw a small device
down at you. It explodes into a cloud of clinging
vapour. A gas bomb! You try not to breathe but still
you begin to lose consciousness. Obviously, it is
nerve gas, entering your system through the tear
ducts in your eyes. You black out. When you come
to, you discover that you are being supparted on
either side by a burly thug. Turn to 151.

249

249
With one shot the sniper is sent plummeting to the

ground, dead. Reholstering your gun, you walk to
mect Mrs Torus. “Good day, Mrs Torus,’ you say.
‘Have you the documents?’ “Yes, theyre right here,’
she says, showing you the safety-deposit box. ‘Gua
.- . There is an explosion at your very feet. Some-
body planted a bomb! Everything is thrown in the
ait, One of the glasshouses collapses. Throw vo
dice and deduct the total from your STAMINA. If you
survive, continue.

You rise groggily to your knees, just in time to see,
over the still form of Mrs Torus, a slick young man
climbing into the ground sloop you saw parked
behind the glasshouse. He is carrying the box of
documents. The sloop drives off. Will you try to
chase the car (turn to 191), or let them go and tender
aid to Mrs Torus (turn to 210)?

250-251

250
The dome-covered base has a population of about
300. You don't detectanything evenremotely suspi-
cious there —a few tourists and lots of scientists and
technicians. You hire a small rocket scooter fora few
days, to scour the surface of this tiny moon (deduct
500 kopecks to cover costs}. The search, however,
proves fruitless: you find a couple of prospectors
and one technical team looking at vacuum welding
of the moan’s cnast, but no illegal drug manufactur-
ers. You leave Rispin’s End and head for the main
planet, Kether. Tur to 333.

251
Sliding out on to the verge, vou manage to keep the
car under control. You change down, accelerate and
slingshot down a long gentle slope, The sloop is still
far ahead, doing a good 190 k.p.h. Will you acceler-
ate to catch it (turn to 124), or play safe and just
match its speed (turn to 212)?

252-253

252
A quick 6wist of the steering-wheel sends your
sports car careering into the side of the large black
sloop. Paint stops, metal shrieks and sparks fiy. Roll
two dice. If the result is higher than or equal to your
SKILL, turn to 213. If the result is less than your
SKILL, turn to 174.

253

The corridor leads you to an actagonal room. Stand-
mg in the centre, contemplating you with at least
four of its seven electronic sensors, is a chrome and
silver robot, obviously of alien design and manufac-
ture. “Welcome,” it sighs, rising up on its seven
articulated legs and extending a few antennae and
microwave sensors in your direction. Then it con-
imues:

‘Red lam,

the heart of a scorpion,

yet not of Arachnia at all!
Pincers Ihave,

but I grasp with the unseen.

In one word, what am I”

With which letter of the alphabet does the answer
begin:
A? Turn to 214
S? Turn to £75
X? Turn to 136
254-255

254

Sticking close to the walls of the cavern, you float
towards the other side. One of the creatures brushes
you with a tentacle, then another, and another.
Suddenly, it wraps half a dozen around you and
drags you from the wall. What’s worse, you dis-
cover that these creatures are almost entirely teeth.
It tries to eat you. Roll two dice. Ifthe resultis higher
than or equal to your skiLL, turn to 245. the result
is less than your SKILL, turn to 176.

255
‘Taking a helicab to Proctor HQ (the loca! police are
known as proctors) gives you a good idea of the size
of Kether's capital — in fact, its only city. A burgeon-
ing little metropolis about ten kilometres in dia-
meter, with a few quaint fifty-storey office blocks
and apartment towers for a city centre. Lots of
helijets; lots of ground cars; no peds. A normal
fringe capital reaily. You arrive at Proctor HQ in the
cily centre and make your way from the iifticth
storey of the lower to the forty-ninth, where Vice is
located.

‘Excuse me,’ you say to the duty proctor at the
reception. ‘I would like to speak to one of the senior
investigators.”

‘Oh. . .’ says the ageing and sleepy man. "Er. . -
yes, right this way.’

Throw a die. Lf the result is even, turn to 96; other-
wise turn to 297.

256-258

256
The place, when you find it on the city outskirts,
turns out to be a large, run-down warehouse. ‘Turn
to 217.

257
A quick search of the directory in the foyer of the
port administration block reveals the location of the
Air-traffic Chief's office. You knock on his door, but
there is no reply. Quietly, you open it and step in.
Throw a die. If the resultis even, turn to 218; if odd,
hurn fo 23.

258

Somewhere, a gong sounds. The deep resonance
booming through the asteroid causes the very rocks
to vibrate. The two men bow their heads in response
and float off down another corridor. After a moment
you follow them, coming eventually to a nexus.
More black-robed figures are pouring out of ather
corridors and into a great hall —seems to be quite a
gathering. Will you try toslip into the hall unnoticed
after the last men enter (turn to 180), or take a ramp
next to the hall (turn to 219)?

> —

M

259-260

259
‘Fine,’ he says, taking the money. “What do you

want to know?’

‘Drugs,’ you say. ‘Where do they come from, and
who do they go to?’

He looks a bit uneasy about this topic. Well, T- . -
I don’t know much about that, but | think it’s got
somcthing to do with a satellite in an L716 orbit.
Irregular transmissions , . . you might try looking

for it .
‘Transmissions fo whom?’ you ask.
‘1... 1 can't say. He turns suddenly and mums

back into the freight depot. Well, you could go and
look for this satellite {turn to 36), or find another
Customs official, but this time try a bit of rough stuff
(turn to 142).

260

White vapour bursts from the jets, which carry you
at a slow drift towards the satellite. You seem to
have made it about half-way, but you will have to
use your jets again to adjust your course, otherwise
you are likely just to miss landing on the satellite.
You fire the jets again. Roll two dice. lf the result is
higher than or equal to your SkILt, tum to 182. Ifthe
resultis less than your SKILL, turn to 221.

ST > ‘° rt -"-,
= —r, > | :
Bez. AE eS
“ i . Nod

4 -
a»

261-264

Taking the side-road reduces the distance between
your two cars to a few metres. You come out behind
them just as they finish the curve. Turn to 378.

262
You draw your blaster as the beast leaps, slavering,
at your throat. Turn to 184.

263
The sentinel spins out of control and dashes itself to
pieces against the walls of the chamber. When it has
finally stopped sparking, you move past it, towards
the exit. Turn to 185.

264

A short blade flicks from the button and slashes
your hand. The door does not open. Lose 1 point of
SkILt_ Return to 186.
265-266

265
After a few hours, the woman surges to her feet
with an enormous burp and staggers from the bar
into the street. The men she was playing with, now
looking dishevelled and tired, lay down their cards
and order drinks from the bar. It seems they are
going to stay fora while longer. You put down your your
glass and slip after the woman. It is dark outside,
thus affording vou plenty of concealment as you
follow her. Roll two dice. If the result is higher than
or equal to yoursxiLL, turn to 226. If the resultis less
than your SKILL, tim to 7a.

266

You scuttle along the gantry, away from the man
and out of the warchouse. The only worthwhile clue
you have left is the knowledge that the thugs’
‘shipment’ was coming from the asteroids. You
decide to find somebody in the space industry who
may know something about illegal space traffic.
Turn to 384.

267-268

257
He agrees to talk to you for 500 kopecks — subtract
this sum from your credit account. Turn to 228.

263
You sit at his feet. ‘T think, sir,” he begins, ‘that you
have been misinformed about certain things — in
short, led astray." ‘Oh?’ you say. "Yes. This steroid
is 2 monastery. Nothing more, nothing illegal. I
suggest, when you get back to Kether, that you pay’
a visit to the Customs officials at the starport — well,
goodbye.’ He waves his hands and shouts same-
thing unintelligible at you. Instantly, you lind your-
self back aboard your ‘spacecratt. You start back for
Kether. Will you take the Grand Keeper's advice
and visit Customs (turn to 337), or try to find
another clue instead {turn to 231)?
269-270

269
You climb on to the roof of the passenger terminal,
find a maintenance duct, and crawl inte the ceiling.
Eventually, you find your way through all the wir
ing, automatic fire-extinguishers and anti-terrorist
gear to a position just above the Customs’ check-in
point. You wait, and wait, and wait. Nobody ar-
rives. Nothing happens. Obviously, the passenger
terminal is no hotbed of crime and vice- It’s too late
to go and hide in the freight depat, but you'll still
have time to get out of the ceiling and approach a
Customs official (turn ta 230). Alternatively, you
can forget about the starport and carry your in-
quiries elsewhere (turn to 231).

270
The car goes out of control, slides from the road and
rolls violently across the ground. Eventually it is
stopped by a tree —a total wreck. It explodes. You
have failed.

271-272

271
The shoulders are soft and give way under your car.
Roll two dice. If the result is higher than or equal to
your SKILL, turn to 232. If the resultisless than your
SKILL, forn fo 193.

292
You say the first thing that springs to mind;
"Wrench? The machine hums a bit and floats into a
recess in the ceiling: ‘Pass.’ Turn to 77.

273-274
———s

273
The surface of the asteroid is pock-marked and
glowing from your assault, You bring your
spacecraft down and space-walk across to the air-
lock. Once through it, you find yourself at the end of
a long zero-gravily tunnel, heading into the bowels
of the asteroid. Moating down it, you come across
an airtight security door set in one of the walls. It is
unmarked. Will you continue down the tunnel (tum
to 195), or go through the door (turn io 234)?

274
You receive an electric shock from the door. It does
not open. Lose 1 point of stamina and then return
fo 225.

275-276

275
At the dome town, you decide to hire a small rocket
scooter for a few days (deduct 500 kopecks to cover
costs), When you return to your pressure-suit and
scooter after paying for the hire, you find that
somebody has slipped a note into your helmet, It
reads: If yene want te grow old, leave Aleph Cygni.

Cute. There doesn't seem to be anyone around who
could have slipped itin— must've got away quickly.
You spend a few days going over the surface of
Rispin’s End but, apart from a few small mining
outposts, find absolutely nothing tu indicate the
presence of any illicit activity. You return to the
dome town. After you park your soovter, a shot
rings Out from behind a giant garbage compactor,
the bullet ricocheting off the ground in front of you.
An assassin! Will you returm the fire (turn to 216), or
iry to get away (turn to 138)?

276

You look him up in the vidiphone directory. There is
only one C. Torus, of 113 Fifth Avenue, City. You
catch a2 helicab into the city, find Fifth Avenue and
forus’s apartment. A knock on the door brings a
woman in answer — probably his wife. ‘'He’s not
here,” she says, fighting hard to restrain tears. ‘Tle’s
not here.” She looks as if she has been frightfully
upset over something. Will you pose as one of
Clive’s colleagues (turn to 237), or let her know that
you are a Narcotics Investigator (turn to 198}, to
ehat his whereabouts?
277-280

277
You dive for the privet hedge! Test your Luck. If you
are successful, turn to 238; otherwise turn to 209.

278
It flaps its great wings to stand upright and consid-
ers you with unnerving malice. “You are in a most
haly spot,” it hisses between steel tecth_ “A monas-
tery dedicated to the merciless Thuvald of Kyth."
Turn tu 200,

279
Turn to 162.

280
To stay on the road, you have to brake drastically.
However, you make it safely through. Tum to 387.

281-282

281

The antigray dray is a massive grey device, about
the size of fwo helijets put end to end. lt floats a
metre off the ground. You could attempt to drive it
into and through the freight door to give whatever
might be waiting behind it a nasty shock (tum to
292), or, if this doesn’t appeal, you could leave the
dray and enter, on foot, one of the lesser entrances
(turn to 322 or 302), or the freight entrance (turn to
67).

282
You jump over the desk at her, and send both of you
sprawling on the floor. You trade punches in hand-
to-hand combat.

ZERA GROSS
if you defeat her, turn to 243; otherwise turn to 204.

SKILL 8 STAMINA 11
283-284

283

Going through it, you find yourself ina large chem-
ical laboratory; stainless-steel and glass apparatus
rise on all sides, This must be the factory proper,
Here is where most of the Federation’s illegal
Satophil-d comes from. There is nobody about, so
you busy yourself destroying some of the equip-
ment. While doing this, you notice two exits from
the room — a door and a corridor. Which will you
take? The door (tum to 166), or the corridor (turn to
205)?

284

Mir Samuel leads you to a grotty spaceport canteen.
‘Te’s in there — looks like this.“ He shows you a
small holograph of the man in question ~ tall, dark,
large nose — you'll be able to recognize him. ‘Tell
him I sent you. Bye” You shake hands. Samuel
leaves and you enter the canteen. Inside is chavs —
noise, fumes and fights — but there, leaning on the
bar, is your man. After identifying yourself, he
leads you to an empty table to talk. Turn to 245.

285-286

285
The statistics on transport are almost completely
useless, apart from being long, tedious and very dry
reading. However, you do notice that, in the case of
air freight along one of the coasts of the continent,
the amount of reported cargo received for total
lift-capacity of aircraft used is far below what it
should be in reference to the other coasts. Even the
amount of air traffic is below normal. Perhaps there
is some undeclared cango? You leave the library and
head for the State Computer File Centre in order to
get a first-hand look at the files used in compiling
these statistics. Turn to 246.

256

Entering the place, you are struck by the noise and
thick atmosphere — what a joint! You saunter up to
the bar, order a drink and then tum to survey the
crowd. Standing in front of you, blasters pointing at
your stomach from fifteen centimetres away, are
two men. ‘Come with us,’ they say matter-of-factly,
‘or we will kill you.’ You would almost certainly be
shot to pieces if you were to try to jump them, so
you do as they say. They lead you out the back. Turn
to 316.

Fs

— = 4 —
z Ag x es aa
= ; eee es
bs Aad

287-288

287

You creep down the corridor. An uneasy feeling
begins to sneak into your mind, growing with every
step. You turn and discover a security camera track-
ing you, the dead lens staring at your startled face.
Analarm goes off, followed shortly by the sounds of
feet approaching at a run. Will you make a stand
(turn to 248), or escape the manor (turn to 231)?

Drawing your blaster, you take careful aim at the
sniper. Roll two dice, If the result is higher than or
equal to your SKILL, turn to 74. If the result is less
than your SKILL, turn to 249.

289-290

289
You orbit around Rispin’s End for a few days,
surveying the surface with your spy beam. There
is very litle to see, though — a couple of vacuum
tents occupied by some prospectors, and the main
base. Certainly no facility for the production of
Satophil-d. Will you land at the main base for a
closer inspection (tum to 250), or give up on
Rispin’s End and head for Kether (turn to 333)?

290
The black sloop is about 100 metres in front when it
brakes heavily to negotiate a tight S-bend. As you
approach the curves, you see that the shoulders of
the road may be soft. Will you do as the sloop did,
by slowing to take the S -bend (turn tn 154), or take a
tisk and go aver the shoulders at speed (furn to

271)?

291-292

4
The air blast from Siding down your window
makes it extremely difficult to aim, and the extra
drag imposed on your car from this action means
that the sloop begins to pull away from you- You put
your gun away, wind up the window and fall back
behind the sloop again. Turn to 37-

292
The drive turbines of the dray whine into life. You
steer the clumsy machine towards the freight doors
and push the throttle forward. It roars and acceler-
ates at quite a frightening pace down the ramp and
into the doors. They cave in. When you finally come
to a rest, you find that the dray has fortuitously
crushed four brutish-looking guards against the
stacks of heavy-duty plastic containers they were
tending. You dismount to have a look around. Turn
to 28.
293-294

293

The tunnel ends in an enormous rough-hewn
cavern. Through the centre of this cavern —in a line
heading to the exit on the other side — hang three
metallic spheres, each adorned with what seem to
be large, loop-shaped handles, The rest of the
cavern is filled with bulbous creatures, devoid of
eyes or other sensory organs bar a set of long
tentacies with which they constantly search the
zeTO-gravity space around themselves. Will you try
reaching the other side by jumping from sphere to
sphere (furn to 137), or by wending your way
through those bulbous creatures (turn to 254)?

2

The attacking robot fighters have disintegrated,
their twisted remains spinning rapidly off into the
void. You continue your orbital search of Rispin‘s
End but, finding nothing, you land at the dome
town to have a closer look at the surface and its
mhabitants. Turn to 275.
295-296

295
You follow the man down the stairs and out into the

street. He does not seem to notice you. A ground car
pulls up nexi to him; he climbs in and is driven off.
Quickly, you hail a helicab and give the immortal
line, ‘Follaw that car!

‘Aw, come on —I don’t wanna get mixed up in
anything.”

‘Please. It’s very important,” you plead, watching
the ground car slowly disappear into the traffic.

‘Nah,’ says the cabby. T don’t wanna get in-
volved. Get another cab.” You pull out your blaster
and stick itin his ear. “Follow 22."
Reluctanuly, he takes the cab into the air and pur-
sues the car t) the city outskirts where it disappears
into a warehouse. You land a block away, pay the
tabby and apoloyize for your harsh words. Turn to
217.

296
‘Excuse me, sir,’ you say, pleasantly, 1am a Federal
Narcotics Investigator—1 have reason to believe that
you Can assist me in my investigations.” His eyes
glaze over and he slumps into a chair — seems to be
quite terror-stricken. Turn te 33-

ard > aE
= EEE as

_———_ , Pa
, ad < .
~¢ —— -- — ~
we
, 7, ed
“ s
“d wT
Ee

“ hate

my

297

Bo. ae a De

— AEs

= pe LA S
XE Ly,
297

The proctor leads you down a long corridor, ner-
vously doing his tie and smoothing wrinkles from
his uniform. ‘Normally, he says, Mr con takes all
the inquiries, but he’s down the pu . ..ata
meeting today, so ll take you to see Mir Samuel
instead.” He reaches Samuel's office and ushers you
itt.

Hello,” you begin by way of introduction. Samuel
waves the proctor from the tiny office and tells you
to be seated. T am a Grade i Investigator from
Federal Central (Vice). I've been sent here to crack
the Aleph Cygni drug ring and would appreciate
any information or aid that you might be able to give
me, you say. Mr Samuel becomes decidedly
alarmed and speechless. He looks under his desk, at
his desk lamp and in a potted fern; finally, he
scrawls something on a piece of paper, hands it to
you and pushes you from the room.

a

Standing in the long corridor, you read the note:
Can‘? speak here. Meet me at the restaurant Viquegue al
7.30 tonight. Something is wrong, when an Investi-
gator can’t talk about crime in his own headquar-
ters. Will you meet Mr Samuel at the restaurant
Viqueque (turn to 11), or conduct your investiga-
tions elsewhere —such as a bar or dive (turn to 299}?
298-299

298 |
You approach a reedylooking Customs official
standing behind a counter in the freight reception
wing. ‘Psst, hey, psst, buddy,’ you say by way of
introducing yourself. ‘1 need some information.’
You wave a wad of notes under his nose. He looks io
see if anybody is watching and then, leaning for-
ward over the counter, whispers, ‘How much?’ and
points at the cash. How much will you offer him:
2,000 kapecks (turn to 259), or 3,000 kopecks (tum
to 220)?

299
The canteen you find is advertised by a gaudy
crypto-fluorescent animated sign, depicting a large
‘Crush’ class stellar battleship diving into a foaming
glass of undefined liquid. The sound-effects are
deafening, full of fusion-motor roars, laser zaps and
dam-sized splashes. Looks promising.

300

Entering the premises, you find the joint packed
with drunken flotsam and jetsam; there is hearty
laughter, the obligatory fight in the corner and it is
all very, very noisy. A small sign over the bar
announces that no aliens are allowed. Very promis-
ing. Will you approach one of the barmaids for a tip
about who in the bar might best be approached fora
sit of underworld ‘largesse’ (turn to 30), or just
mingle to see what you can find out (tum to 362)?

300

The two cars fly over the crest, yours becoming
slightly airborne_ In front, the road turns intoa tight
curve. Neither of you has an atom‘s worth of hope
of slowing in time to take it. The sloop brakes wildly;
you crash into it from behind, and destroy your
vehicle. Both cars, still travelling at great speed, fly
off the road and wrap themselves around separate
trees.

Throw three dice and deduct the total from your
stamina. If you have survived the smash, turn to

359-

ny
4

ncat 3 4G

‘

At

¥ hae
aaa

oe

Roe

Lee

301-302

301

The ramp ends in a door, which opens as you
approach. Standing in front of you is an enormous
four-legged dog-like beast. It is covered with short
spiky fur, but one of its eyes is a vidicamera and its
teeth are stainless-steel razors. A low growl vibrates
from its throat. Will you try to soothe it (turn to 223)

Or justassume it’s very dangerous and shoot it (tum
to 262)?

302

It darts towards you as yuu fly by, A great flash of
electricity grazes past, burning through the back of
your pressure-suit. Deduct 2 paints from your sT4-

Mina. However, you make it past, and head for the
exit. Turn to 185.
303~304

393
A bright flash of electrons surges out of the button,
engulfingy your arm. The door does not open. Lose 1
point of stamina. Return to 186.

304

‘Mind if I jain in?’ you ask, pulling a chair up to the
circle of card players. “Yeah, Ido. Get lost,’ says the
woman, After a bit of wheedling, however, she
changes her mind and lets you sit in. You discoyer
that her name is Zera Gross and that, ostensibly, she
runs an importiexpert agency. Aha! You try a
pointed joke to see what reaction the word ‘drugs’
might have on them: ‘More exporting than import-
ing, I'diwager, the nature of the drug business being
what it is! Ta, ha!’ you laugh. The sudden silence
and stony faces around the table is a little discon-
certing.

‘OK, boys, time to teach the little worm a bit of
respect.’ The five or six men with whom you were
playing cards rise to their feet and attack you. You
are beaten, as they say, almost to a pulp. Lose 2
STAMINA points permanently.

595

When you finally come to, the bar is almost empty.
It is early morning. On the new day, after a bit of
medical attention and rest, you head off to the City
Central Library. There might be some information
about Zera Gross on the case lists. Tum to 80.

395

You grab the rafterand swing a kick al the first thug,
sending him flying off the gantry to the floor far
below. hud. The other gunman slips his blaster off
safety, but you have already closed with him. A kick
sends the gun out of his hand and a few well-placed
blows finish him off.

“Psst! says someone back down the gantry. ‘Psst,
buddy!" It is a man, possibly one of Blaster’s gun-
men, crouching low, waving at you to come over.
Will you follow him (turn to 227), ar run fram him
(turn to 266)?
306-307

306

AJl of the hangars but one are deserted. In this one,
you find a lone shuttle pilot performing systems
checks on his spacecraft. He ignores you as he goes
laboriously through panel after panel of instm-
ments — flicking switches, reading meters, making
adjustments. You decide to approach him for some
information. Will you offer him cash for this in-
formation {burn to 267), or not (turn to 228)?

397
As you draw your pistol, the Grand Keeper mur-
murs a few words and makes a slight gesture across
his lips with a finger. You discover you are frozen,
incapable of movement. “Now, let's be reasonable,
shall we?’ he says. ‘Come, sir, sit down.” Turn to
268.

308-310

308
Will you secrete yourself away in the passenger
arrivals section {turn tv 269) or in the freight depot
{turn to 211)?

309
The sports car flies over the crest, becoming

momentarily airborne. In front of you, the road
takes a sharp hairpin curve to the right. Very tricky.
You slam on your brakes when you touch the
ground and try to keep your car under control as it
bucks into the bend. Test your Luck, If you are
successful, turn to 254; otherivise turn to 270.

310
The car's turbines whine softly as you eke out the
extra revs necessary to bring you alongside the
cnminals’ car. You do so, slowly.

Will you try to shoot al them (turn to 291}, or push
them off the raised road with a side-swi ipe (turn to
252)?

311-312

311

The ramp ends in a door which opens as you
approach. In front is a long corridor occupied by a
metre-wide, saucer-shaped robot. A flickering red
eye on its rim contemplates you; a cluster of blasters
set in its underside threaten. It hangs in the air
noiselessly. ‘Word of the day?’ it demands, You
make a guess. Which will it be:

Tuesday? Turn to 155

Satophil? Turn to 194

Wrench? Turn to 272

Babbet? Turn to 233
312

The asteroid is covered with batteries of phasers
and, having been alerted to your presence by your
passage through the minefield, is using them in an
attempt to deprive you of your life, You will have to
fight these outer defences before attempting to
land. if you have any Smart Missiles left, you may
launch them. For each Smart Missile deployed, the
asteroid will lose 2 SHIELDS.

WEAPONS
STRENGTH SHIELDS
ASTEROID DEFENCES ) 6

If you win, you may either dock at the main en-
trance (turn to 117), or at one of the few emergency
aitlocks set into the asteroid’s surface (turn to 273}.
2237045

343
‘The door opens into an identically cubic room_ Turn
to 186.

‘The man does not look at all surprised when you
jain him. In fact, there seems io be a certain recogni-
tion in his eves. You talk to him for a while about
how you're an off-svorld travelling salesman, before
mentioning that you'd be interested in ‘expanding’
your Operations to cover, perhaps, a few ‘ila?’
items. He laughs at you. ‘You're nota salesman. Ha!
You're a nare.’ This, of course, startles you slightly-
He is quick to reassure you. Leaning closer, he
whispers, “We can’t talk here. Meet me in two hours
at the Hotel Mirimar, room 1201.” He then drains his
glass, rises and walks from the canteen- You decade
to meet him. Turn to 395-

315

The Café Heroes of the Federation, you find, is a
small establishment on the outskirts of the city. At
9.00 a.m. it is completely deserted. Seating yourself
in a discreet position, you order breakfast and wait
for Clive Torus. After tvo hours, the only other
people who have been in the café are two old ladies
who had a slice of toast between them, a young
couple and a child. None of them could possibly
have been Clive — looks like he’s not going to show-
Something may have happened to him, so you
decide to follow him up. Will you ask the café owner
if he’s seen or heard from him (turn to 81), or try to
find his address (turn to 276)?

316-317

316

Out the back is a large black ground car with reflec
tive windows. They bundle vou into the rear, keep-
ing their guns bained on you. ‘Time fora little ride -
har, har,’ laughs the driver. You are taken fora drive
out of the city and into the country, to a large
manor-house. There are shady-looking gunmen all]
over the grounds. As you are led out of the car,
towards the house, you see an opportunity to
escape —a quick dive into a privet hedge followed by
2 short roll down an embankment and then a sprint
for all you're worth. Will you attempt this escape
(turn to 277), or let the gunmen lead you into the
house (turn to 170)?

317

It flaps its great wings to stand upright and con-
siders you with unnerving malice. ‘lam a Mind
Parasite. One of the great old ones from ancient
Kyth,’ it says, in a voice of ice. Turn to 200.
318-319

318
‘Here,’ you say, slipping him a wad of banknotes.
‘This is for a cup of coffee. Isn't it coffee break now?’
How many kopecks did you give him:

1,000? Turn to 279
1,500? Turn to 240
2,000? Tum to 201

319
The car slides a bit, but your deftness keeps it on the
road, You hurtle out of the bends atover 170 k.p.h.,
to find that the distance between your foes and
yourself has been drastically shortened. They are
now only about 100 metres in front. Tum to 154.

320-321

320

You hire a helijet and land among the other helijets
om the pad on top of the fifty-storey Isosceles Tower.
On the fiftieth floor you find the office you want: 2.

GROSS AND ASSOCIATES. IMPORT/EXPORT,
Surprisingly, the door to this office is unlocked; in

fact, ajar. You draw your blaster and slowly push
the door open with a toe — you are faced by the
wood-panelled wall of a corridor leading to the left
and right. there is no sound whatsoever. Will you
follow the wall to the left (turn te 331), or the risht
{turn to 86)?

321
You fire at each other!

ZERA SKIL. 8 STAMINA II

if you defeat her, turn to 165,
322-323

322
You go off target and hita couple of tentacles froma
pair of the bulbous creatures. They open tremen-
dous tooth-filled maw and attack you wildly, biting
you. Lose 4 points of STAMINA. Turn to 244.

323
You part with your 500. The barmaid pulls you close
and poinis out two peaple at separate tables. One is
a pale, drawn-looking man alone with his beer, the
other is a fat, middle-aged woman playing cards
with six or seven men. Which will you approach,
the man {turn to 314), or the woman (tum to 343)?

The manufacturing yearbooks are long, tedious
and, what's worse, completely useless. They don’t
seem to contain anything remotely informative.
After a few hours, you decide to try something
different. If you haven't already, you can look up
statistics on agriculture (turn to 363) or Tansport
(turn to 285). Lf you're sick of statistics, you could
look through old vidinews for references to organ-
ized crime (turn to 42).

325
Peering around a corner, you can see the gunman
getting into a long black ground car, which then
drives off. You hail the helicab and follow the saloon
to a place called Spark’s Bar. Here, the gunman
gets out of the car, with the driver, and enters the
bar. Turn to 286.

ge Str): ee oO = (4
Y ns

<
*

.__——
326-327

326
‘... Yeah, Clive’s wife is planning on meeting this
Federal Investigator tomorrow moming. ..’ you
hear.

‘What? With the documents?’

‘Yeah — at the greenhouse in the Botanic Gar-
dens.’

‘The Fed doesn’t know about it yet?’

‘Nah . . . the boys are bringing the dude here for
the set-up, | rang Clive’s wife, posing as the Investi-
gator, to get her to come. - .”

A door in the other room opens and a frightened
voice cries, ‘The Fed's escaped!’

‘What?’ They run from the room.

Will you go to this set-up meeting tomorrow (turn to
44), or just escape from the manor and look forsome
other clues (turn to 231)?

327

A short search reveals two very suspicious items: a
man in a tree with a high-powered hunting blaster;
and a long black ground sloop with darkened win-
dows parked behind one of the greenhouses. You
can’t do much about the car, so will you take out the
sniper (turn to 288), or assume he’s harmless and
just go to meet Mrs Torus anyway (turn to 376)?

328-329

328
You accelerate towards Rispin’s End at a steady 3
Gs. When you arrive, will you survey the moon
from orbit (furn to 289), or land at the only base and
take 2 closer look (turn to 250)?

329
The forest ends, and the road, occupied only by the
sloop 100 metres ahead, leads from it in a long
greceful curve to the night. You could probably gain
a bit on them by driving up the wrong side of the
road, keeping an eye out for oncoming traffic, of
course. Will you do this (turn to 37}, or not (turn to

290)?

339-331

339

You hire a long-range helijet and fly out to the tiny,
vegetation-covered island. As you circle over it, you
spot a large clearing containing a launch pad for
shuttles, two landing bays for helijets and an anti-
grav dray. One of the helijet bays is occupied. You
land your aircraft in the other bay and climb out.

Now that you are closer, you can see three Tamps,
spaced equally around the helijet bays, descending
into the ground. Two of the ramps end in quite
ordinary-looking entrances, while the third finishes
in a large freight door. Will you enter one of the
ordinary entrances (turn to 311 or 301), the freight
door (turn to 67), or take a look at the antiprav dray
{turn to 281)?

332

The corridor opens out into a spacious open-plan
office. There are some fifteen desks spread about,
computer vidilinks and even a few document files.
it gives the impression of having been very hastily
stripped and deserted. Files are spilled on the floor,
magnetic memory tape les everywhere, and one of
the desks is even tipped on its side. Perhaps they
were expecting a whole bevy of Feds to arrive. Will
you search through some of the files to see if any
sense can be made of this mess (turn to 242), or will
you continue through the office (turn to 203)?
332-333

Rf
The passage leads to a room stacked high with
heavy-duty plastic containers. Looking them over,
you find they contain different chemicals, natural
products and packaging materials — all the neces-
sary raiv materials to produce Satophil-d. You re-
turn to the crossways. If you haven't already done
50, you may take either the right passage (turn to
146), or the continuation of the tunnel (turn to 293).

333

You land at Kether’s only starport, which is on the
continental land-mass and only ten kilometres from
the planet's capital city. Your ship is towed to its
parking-space where, to your dismay, you are
boarded by several Customs officers looking for
contraband, ‘What, drugs?’ you ask. They look at
you smugly before replying. “No, technology.’ They
starch yourship, making amess everywhere they go.
but they find nothing illegal and eventually leave the
spacuctaft.

You could ask a few questions around the starport
(turn to 394), go to the local law-enforcement head-
quarters and ask for some help (turn to 255), or, if
you want to keep a really low profile, find a shady
starport canteen in which to conduct a few discreet
inquiries {turn to 299}-

334-335

334
Your continued search reveals even more missing

files, this time regarding spacecraft: whole interstel-
lar flights are missing. Something is odd there. You
leave the Computer Centre. Will you go and see the
Air-traffic Chief about these missing records {turn to
8g), or try to find somebody in the space industry
who may know something about any illegal space
traffic (turn to 384)?

335
He swears that he has told you the truth, It doesn’t
give you a great deal to go on, however: the best
course of action seems to be to find someone in the
space industry who can verify the existence of this

Wlegal traffic. Turn to 384.

336-337

336
The dim corridor arches and ends at a rocky inter-
section. While floating there in the yellow light,
deciding which way to go, you hear voices. Low,
sonorous tones drift to your ears, Will you go down
the corridor which leads to these voices (turn to
397), or take the other passage (turn to 385)?

| Se a

len a ——>

337
Time to decide your strategy regarding the Customs

officials. You could approach a Customs officer and
either threaten him for information (turn to 142), or,
if you are willing to spend at least 2,000 kopecks,
you could try bribery (tum to 298), Alternatively,
you could hide in the Customs building in the hope
of catching them in an illegal act (turn to 308).

338-339

338
You back your ship off, aim your phasers and blow
the satellite to pieces. Having effectively destroyed
your last chie, you head back to Kether starport.
Turn to 16.

339
As the black sloop reaches the crest, you spota road

to the right. There must be a curve up ahead! You
slam on the brakes and slide to a halt just over the
hill. In front, the road takes a ight turn. The black
sloop, unable to slow in time to negotiate the curve
with safety, has flown off the road and wrapped
itself around a stout-looking tree. Turn to 359.

349-343

340

The corridor leads to an automatic door, which
sighs open as you approach and clangs shut after
you go through. You are in another corndor. On
one side, this coridor ends in a door, on the otherit
continues until it disappears around a commer. Will
you so through the door (turn to 67), or down the
passageway (turn to 253)?

34
You dive past it and head towards the oat. Turn to
185,

An X-ray laser flashes on momentarily, burning
your arm. The door does not open. Lose i point of
STAMINA. Return to 186.

343
The woman is really horrible — gap-toothed, beery,

burping and coarse, but the way she commands the
men playing cards with her shows that she has real
power. What form of power, however, is yet to be
seen. Will you try to join the card players (turn to
304), or wait until they finish and then follow the
woman (furn to 265)?

344-345

a ay
--F ys ¢ ~,
eo ~ Se ee 9 ii
ke Pe NY

344
You grab the rafter and aim a kick at the first thug,
but miss him. They overpower you with a few quick
blows and then drag you along the gantry. Turn to
61.

The starport is divided, ed ghly, inta two sections:
there are the enormous spaceship hangars, of which
only one seems to be in use, and there are the
administrative and traffic-control buildings. In
which section will you begin inquiries? The hangars
(turn to 306), or the administrative block (tum to
150)? ;

346

346

You follow the corridor fora few more minutes until
your path is blocked by an iris lock, over which is
inscribed: GRAND KEEPER. The lock opens as you
approach and reveals a small room decorated in the
most archaic taste. Evidently there is a gravity
generator in the room, as an aged man in volumi-
nous black robes is seated in a high-backed chair,
facing you. “Come in, come in,” he says, mationing
you towards a staol at his feet. ‘Come and sit for
a while Will you do as he savs (turn to 268},
or assume he is hostile and draw your pistol (turn
ti» 307)?

f Lt -es

=, —_ -f

\chall
347-348

347

“Waitl’ he cries, eyes flying open. ‘1 just remem-
bered! The dope dealers’ nerve-centre is im the city
... Or... wait... wait... let me see,’ he pinches
his brow witha couple of fingers as if frying to recall.
“Yes, I've got it, in the Isosceles Tower — top floor.’
‘Thanks,’ you say, as you tie him up with his
vidiphone cord. You head into the aty centre, to-
wards the Isosceles Tower. Turn ty 320.

‘The sloop accelerates into the straight and dis-
appears over a hill. It is still about 300 metres from
your car. The hill it went over is a hump-backed
ridge, so you cannot see how the rest of the road
continues. As you approach the hill, will you
assume that the road continues straight, and go
over the crest at high speed (furn to 309), or will you
anticipate a corner and slow down a bit (turn to
163}?

349-350

349
A shudder runs through your car and it begins to

fishtail stighth; across the road, The black car pulls
away from you as you fight to maintain control.
Turn to 290.

359
The man has no identificalion on him, no vendella
marks or anything, in fact, which could give you
mformation. You can only determine the cause of
death — loss of blood. In one of his hands, however,
he hokis 4 Energy Tablets. You may add these to
your Equipment List. You leave the room. Tum to

3514-352

351

You misjudge the distance between your ship and a
mine. The device's mass detectors are disturbed by
the proximity and send a short message to the
hydrogen bomb contained somewhere in its shell to
explode.

This it does, sending a terrific shock through your
spacecraft. Lose 2 sHreLos. If this hasn't destroved
your vessel, then you have made it through the

minefield. Turn to 312.
&
+o»
aa

€ 42

yA

Pe 2 i

The corridor leads you to a tiny cubic mom with
doors on all its surfaces. Each door is a bright shade
of red with a little black button set in the centre.
Turn to 225-

353-354

You approach the dome which, you notice, is
an oxygen tent Around it are parked various
low-gravity earth-moving machines and a rocket
scooter. Looks like you're not going to suffocate
after all. You knock on the airlock. After a few
moments it flashes up a little sign: ENTER. Inside,
you meet the owner, a syizened old prospector, Tle
expresses some surprise when you tell him of your
circumstances. ‘Shot down, eh? Shoat down by drug
runners, you say? Well, shot down, maybe, but I
don’t know ‘bout them drug runners. Been on this
rock for thirty years, and ain’tnever come ‘cross any
of them ol drug runners.” He feeds you, replenishes
your oxygen tanks and then, with the new day,
takes you on his rocket scooter to the dome town.
Turn to 275.

354

You follow after Clive, finding yourself in the caver-
nous main interior of the warehouse, In the dim
light, you can see lots of crates and a large, sleek
black ground car. Creeping forward, you are sur-
prised by half a dozen gunmen leaping out from
behind the crates, ‘Freeze!’ one of therm yells. Will
you doas he says (turn to 100), or try to make a break
for it (turn to 139)?
355-357

355
Deduct the 500 hopecks from your credit account.

The miner informs you that a certain large asteroid
known as C230 is the centre of a hive of activity —
none of which is reported to the authorities, After
receiving this news, you notice a small insect land
on the table in front of you. Insect? No~a bug. An
electronic bug, cunningly formed so as to look like a
real insect; you can see the tiny jets under the mock
wings and the yidicamera for an eye — looking
straight into your own. Will you go to asteroid C230
{turn to 73), or will you attempt to lose the bug (turn
to 53)?

356
Choose carefully! What question will you ask?
What type of beast ts it? Turn to 317
What place have you stumbled
upon? Turn to 278
What help can the beast give
you? Turn to 239
357

You hide away in the locker you used previously.
Turn §& 45-
358-359

358
The shoulders are soft and begin to collapse under

the forces your vehicle is exerting on them. Roll two
dice. If the result is higher than or equal to your
SKILL, turn to 270. If the result is less than your
SKILL, farn to 319.

359
Leaving your own vehicle, you approach the wreck-

ed sloop, Looking inside you can see that nobody
survived. You recover the safety-deposit box and
open it, Inside are lots of incriminating documents
regarding two individuals: Zera Gross and ‘Blaster’
Babhet. There are bills for the raw materials neces-
sary to produce Satophil-d, amounts paid in bribes
to various officials and, what's most important, the
location of their receiving facility on Kether!
Evidently, the dug arrives from space via shuttle at
a little island some 4,000 kilometres off the shore of
the main continental land-mass. lt is stored there
until sent to the starport on Kether for shipment out
of system. The box even contains the exact co-
ordinates of the island facili. Turn to 330.

360-362

60

The corridor leads to aban It has a brass plate
attached to it: ZERA GROSS. ‘I'he door opens as you
approach and there, in a room, behind a large desk,
dictating to a little robot secretary, she is — fat,
gap-toothed and hormble. “Yeah? she says, not
looking at you, obviously thinking you're one of her
henchmen. “Whad’ yer want?’

‘Yeah?’ repeats the secretary, scribbling frantical-
ly, Whad’ yer, - .’

‘Shuddup, dummy,” she shrieks at it, ‘I'm speak-
ing ter. . .” She notices who you are, “. . - ie.’ She
makes a dive fora blaster on top of the desk.

Will vou engage her ina gun fight (turn to 322) or in
hand-to-hand combat (turn to 282)?

361
You make it to the second sphere and jump for the
next. Roll two dice. If the result is higher than or
equal to your SKILL, turn to 322. If the resultis less
than your SKILL, furn to 244.

362
You mingie for a while before finding a likely per-
son. Throw a die: if the result is 1, the person isa
pale drawn-looking fellow, who is alone (turn to
314); if 2, the person is a fat middle-aged woman
playing cards at a table (turn to 343); if in the range
3-6, turn to 382.
393-365

363

The agriculture yearbooks prove to be weighty but
rather uninformative reading. After a couple of
hours of annual rainfall, bushels of wheat and so
many tons of dead animals, you decide thatagnaul-
ture is probably not what you are looking for. Ifyou
haven't already, you can look at statistics for manu-
facturing {turn to 324) or transport (turn to 285). if
you're sick of statistics, you could go and look
through old vidinews for references to organized
crime (turn to 41).

364
You dive down an alley and run. The gunman fires

after you but misses and yells out, just before vou
round the next corner: ‘You can’t escape — not even
in space!’ What does he mean by ‘noteven in space’?
You could try to find somebody in the space indus-
try to talk to about Hlegal goings on out there (turn to
384), or you could double back to the café and try to
follow the gunman (furn to 325).

365
The room has a corridor leading fromit, anda door.
Behind the door you can hear muffled voices. Will
you try to hear svhat is being said (turn to 326), or
explore down the corridor (turn to 287)?

a —— |

‘ ———-.24 —_—_= ;
fa San es

2s. % F
._.—-

366-368

366
You look among a few copses of trees, under a shrub
or two and in one of the greenhouses, but find
nothing and nobody of a suspicious nature. You go
to meet Mrs Torus. Turn to 376.

367

The asteroid belt lies some 4 AUs out ina huge ring
around Aleph Cygni. It consists of at least a hun-
dred thousand fair-sized rocks and millions of little
ones. Once you reach the outskirts of a small section
of the belt, you realize the futility of a search —
would take a Federal Astrosurvey team with ten
ships 2 good twenty years to explore every rock
capable of supporting a base. You head back to
Kether. Turn to 333.

368
You follow the track at great speed, meet the main
road, swing on to itand accelerate away. ‘T'urn to 56.
369-371

You're a bit slow, and the paperweight grazes your
skull and knocks you out. You never regain con-
sciousness. You have failed-

37°
You make it through the minefield safely. The pro-
duction asteroid is just a short way off. Turn to 322.

Ape Soya : a SS

—-

372
There's not much point in staying here, so you

return to the crossways. If you haven’talready done
so, you may take either the left passage (hum to 332),
or the continuation of the tunnel (turn to 293)-

372

372
You accelerate towards the asteroid belt, your ship’s

twin fusion drive pushing you along at a steady 3
Gs. Suddenly, an alarm goes off and the command
screen presents:

WARNING
TWO UNIDENTIFIED VESSELS APPROACHING
FROM ASTEROIDS ON INTERCEPT COURSE

You push your ship into a slight turn to avoid any
possibility of 2 collision, but the two vessels, instead
of continuing straight, change direction to remain
ona collision course. They are trying to catch you. In
fact, they have begun firing their phasers! You will
have to fight them.

WEAPONS

STRENGTH SHIELDS
INTERCEPTOR 1 5 3
INTERCEPTOR 2 5 2

If you destroy them, you may either continue to-
wards the asteroids (turn to 367), or change course
and go to Kether instead (turn to 333).

™>,
373-374

373

‘Well, in that case . . .” he says, taking the money
from your hands, T might let you sit at this terminal
here for a few minutes.’ He indicates a vidilink
behind the reception counter. “Buf you must be
quick, as my superior could return at any moment
and then .. . alas... I would have t» denounce
you.’ He smiles. ‘My neck or yours.’ You sit at the
terminal and begin looking through the Centre’s
confidential files. ‘Turn to 393.

374
You throw him around the room a bitand then place

the barrel of your blaster firmly against his fore-
head.

‘Now,’ you say. ‘Tell me the truth.’

‘It is, it is,’ he screams. ‘1 swear it is. Look . -.
look, I'll even tell you which asteroid all the traffic’s
been coming from.‘

‘OK."

‘It's C230 — if you've got a Cosmo-Nay you can’t

miss it.’
Will you go out to this asteroid (turn to 73), or try to
find somebody in the space industry who might be
able to verify this source of illegal traffic (hum to
384)?

3757-376

375
The niche contains a small plaque:

PRAYER TO THUVALD
Hidden is he,
Mighty ts he,

His ime returns,
Hold, uvit, be still.

Strange! Finding nothing else, you continue out of
the room and down the still rough-hewn corridor.
Turn to 336.

376
You walk towards her. “Mrs Torus,’ you say. She

turns, but at that moment Gyo shots ring out froma
copse of trees to your left — one slams into Mrs
Torus, the other into you. Throw one die and de-
duct the result from your stamina. If you survive,
continue.

You both fall to the ground, Mrs Torus dropping the
bag she was carrying. The safety-deposit box with
the incriminating documents falls out. Before you
can react, the sniper dashes over, grabs the box and
leaps into a sloop, which squeals off.

What a set-up! You lurch to your feet. Will you
attempt to chase the sloop (turn to 191), or aid Mrs
Torus (turn to 210)?
377

377
You manoeuvre your spacectaft alongside the satel-

lite. Itis very large, obviously containing a nuclear-
power plant, instead of using a solar wing, An
omni-directional receiver antenna sticks out of one
end, and a unidirectional antenna points out of the
other— down at Kether’s capital city. Will you blow
the satellite up (turn to 338), or don your pressure-
suit and take a space-walk across to look at it (turn
to 399)?

378

You tail-gate them up a straight at 240 k.p,h. Every
now and then you graze their bumper with yours
and push them slightly. The road climbs a hill and
then disappears over the crest. Both of your cars are
still doing over 200 k._p-h. when you reach the ndge-
Roll two dice. If the result is higher than ar equal to
your SKILL, turn to 300. If the result is less than your
SKILL, turn to 339-

379-380

379
The passage leads to a room, In the centre, hanging
in mid-air, is a large, square plastic table — the latest
thing in antigravity furniture, evidently. A chair,
similariy without legs, hovers next to it. When you
enter the room this chair floats over and says, ‘Hil
Want to sit on me?’ Pathetic device. You see a key,
with a large cardboard tag attached toit, lying on the
chair. Picking it up, you read:
Zera,
This is for shutting down the reactor at Base 2. Keep
it safe.
Blaster

You pocket it. There's nothing else in the room, so

you go back to the intersection and down the corri-
dor. Turn to 340.

330
Roll ho dice. Lf the result is higher than or equal to
yOur SKILL, turn to 224, If the resultisless than your
SKILL, turn to 263.

381-382

381

The door opens on to a sumptuous living-area —
carpets, modern furniture and diffused light. There
is even a trendy folding screen, decorated with
offsworld scenery, next to the door. In the wall
opposite the door you are standing in is a wide
corridor, leading into another, similarly decorated
room. In this corridor stand two identical figures af
what must be ‘Blaster’ Babbet. Tucked under each
left arm is an enormous Vanque blaster. ‘Goud
evening,” they say together. ‘Time ta die, Fed.’ Will
you blast the left figure (turn to 69), the right figure
(fur to 108}, or try to think of an alternative course
of action (turn to 147)?

382
You find a slightly deranged starship navigator to
talk to. He grabs you by the neck as you stand at the
Darand says ina low voice, ‘Beware.’ Well, he might
know something. You buy him a drink and sit at a
table with him. Turn to 245-

383
The rafter is above you! You jump for it. Test your
Luck, If you are successful, turn to 305; otherwise
turn to 344.

354
Will you conduct your inquiries at Kether’s starport

(turn to 345), or in the city (him to 132)?

385
The passage winds through the rocks, eventually
leading past a large dark room occupied solely by a
low pedestal upon which a ruddy flame is burning.
The entrance to the chamberis flanked by two large,
iron-studded wooden doors. Will you enter the
room (turn 10 83), or bypass it (turn to 346)?

386
‘That's all I know!’ he pleads. Looks like you're not
going lo make much headway here, so you deade to
go and look for the satellite that he mentioned. Turn
to 36. -

387-390

387 |
The sloop is about 300 metres ahead, clocking 165
k.p.h. It is tearing around a long, wide, left curve,
towards a straight. A small access road is coming up
on your left. If you take it you may be able to cut the
distance between the two vehicles — but there is a
danger that the access road might not join up with
the main road further on- If you decide to take the
side-road, turn to 241. Ifyou stay on the main road,

turn to 348-

388
You maintain a steady distance between the vehi-
des. Turn to 37.

You exit the room into a cormidar. Turn to 253.

5399
The airlock proves safe to hold. Aftera few moments
the iris lock clicks shut and air roars back into the
room. Turn to 371.

392

392

Turning the Key in the hole results in a horrible
grinding noise coming from the reactor. Sirens
begin to sound throughout the asteroid’s passage-
ways. A synthesized voice booms: ‘Warning. Grav-
ity shielding withdrawn. Melt-down will occur in
approximately five minutes ... Warning. Gravity
... andsoon.

All the instrument panels flash in panic. The ceiling
drops away to reveal a small airlock, marked
EMERGENCY exit. It leads you to the surface of the
asteroid. From here you scuttle back to your
Spacecraft and make a hasty retreat.

The asteroid explodes in a ball of radioactive fire,
taking the refinery, stores, shuttles and — evidently
—the rest of the criminal! organization with it. Con-
gratulations. Your mission is a success.
392-393

392

You begin to run towards the ridge in front of you;
you are virtually flying in the low gravity. After half
an hour you cross it, only ta be confronted with
more of this seemingly endless moon, grey plains
and splintered mountains Tolling on to the horizon.
A red warming light—ten minutes of oxygen — has
just come on inside your helmet. You try to run back

to the arange dome you saw earlier, but somewhere
along the way your oxygen is finally depleted. You
have failed.

393
Consulting the file directory on the terminal reveals
that you can only have access to transport files —
nothing personal, legal or even remotely criminal.
Su you havea quick look through the transport files
and notice, almost immediately, that large sections
are missing from the airtraffic records — days,
weeks, maybe more. There has either been some
enormous bureaucratic incompetence or, as seems
more and more likely, a cover-up. What could they
be hiding? Flights from certain locations? You could

394

be discovered at any moment. Will you continue to
séarch through the files (turn to 334), or goin search
of the person most likely to be responsible for the
missing files, the Chief of Air-traffic Control (turn to

8g)?

394

The starport is a large place, but there are few
people about; the only othercrafl present area small
non-hyperspace fighter and a squat planet-to-orbit
shuttle. You manage to find a few people to chat to
about Kether’s starport, although all you find outis
that it is the only facility in the system which can
handle the refuelling of starships. if this is true, then
it means that all the drugs that are leaving Aleph
Cygni must pass through this starport. Well,
maybe_ Not finding any more interesting topics of
conversation you decide to leave the starport’s en-
¥irons. Will you declare your Federal Investigator
status to the local Jaw-enforcement headquarters to
see what information thev have (turn to 255), or find
a Starport canteen, or hotel, in which to conduct
your investigations (turn to 299)?

395-396

395

Itis night. The Hotel Mirimar is a dive. The elevator
is out of order. There is no heating. Arriving at the
’ twelfth floor after running up the stairs, you lean for
a moment in the doorway to catch your breath. The
door to 1201, which is just next to you, opens. A
shifty-looking character, putting something in his
jacket pocket, steps out. He looks a bit surprised at
seeing you. He waits impatiently by the elevator
until, realizing thatitis out of order, he heads for the
stairs, and clatters off down towards street level.
Will you enter 1207 (turn te 236), or follow the man
who just left {turn to 295)?

Ata touch of the accelerator, your car leaps at the
massive black sloop. Test your Luck. lf you are suc-
cessful, turn to 8; otherwise turn to 57.

397-398

397

Cautiously, you drift towards the voices, until you
come to a room. The passage seems to enter it
through the ceiling, for there, upside down in the
zero gravity, two figures are floating. They are cach
garbed head to toe in large sack-like black robes.
They look like some order of weightless monks.

‘The holy malevolence is stirring again,’ says one,

Yes,‘ says the other, Tris.‘

‘Te will be wanting a. . . toy again,’ continues the
first.

“Yes, it will.’
Will you stay where you are (turn to 258), confront
them (turn to 63), or retreat back to the intersection
and down the other passage (turn to 385)?

398

You rocket out to Rispin’s End for a look. It isa tiny,
almost asteroid-sized lump of rock, hardly more
than 400 kilometres in diameter. ‘There is only one
official facility on this moon —a small dame town for
scientists and tourists. The population is about 300
persons. Will you land at this facility (turn to 275), or
fly around the moon to see if anything unusual can
be spotted (turn to 50)?

395-396

395
Itis night. The Hotel Mirimar is a dive. The elevator

is out of order. There is no heating. Amiving at the
- twelfth floor after running up the stairs, you lean for
a momentin the doorway to catch your breath. The
door to 1201, which is just next to you, opens. A
shifty-lovking character, putting something in his
jacket pocket, steps out. He looks a bit surprised at
seeing you. He waits impatiently by the elevator
until, realizing thatit is out of order, he heads for the
stairs, and clatters off dawn towards street level.
Will you enter 1201 (turn to 236), or follow the man
who just left (turn to 295)?

396
Ata touch of the accelerator, your car leaps at the
massive black sloop. Test your Luck. lf you are suc
cessful, turn Lo 8; otherwise turn to 57-

397-398

3

Cantiously, you drift towards the voices, until you
come to a room. The passage seems ta enter it
through the ceiling, for there, upside down in the
zero gravity, two figures are floating. They are each
garbed head to toe in large sack-like black robes.
They look like some order of weightless monks.

‘The holy malevolence is stirring again,’ says one.

Yes,’ says the other, ‘It is."

‘Tt will be wanting a - - . toy again,’ continues the
first.

“Yes, it will.’
Will you stay where you are (turn to 258), confront
them (turn to 63), or retreat back to the intersection
and down the other passage (turn to 385)?

398
You rocket out to Rispin’s End fora look, Itisa tiny,

almost asteroid-sized lump of rock, hardly more
than 400 kilometres in diameter. There is only one
offidal facility on this moon—a small dome town for
scientists and tourists. ‘The population is about 300
persons. Will you land at this facility (turn to 275), or
fly around the moon to see if anything unusual can
be spotted (turn to 50)?

399-400

399

You will have to use hand-held zero-gravity jcis to
bridge the gap between yourself and the satellite.
‘These contain limited fuel, so every ime you makea
decision (that is, turn to a new reference), make a
mark on a scrap of paper with your pen. Once you
have 4 marks, you are out of fuel and spin off mto
space. Stop making marks if you reach the satellite.
You steady yourself in the open iris of your airlock
and take careful aim with your jets at the satellite
Roll two dice. If the result is higher than or equal to
your SKILL, turn to 65. Lf the result is less than your
SKILL, turn to 260.

Don’t forget to keep count of your fuel.

fe

<_—

400
With the capture of ‘Blaster’ Babbet you have wiped
out the leadership of the criminal organization.
Congratulations— you have smashed the drug ring.
Your mission is a complete success.

Also in Puffin

DUNGEONEER
Mare Gascoigne and Pete Tarmiya

Now you and your friends can create your own fantasy
movies! Imagine that you are the director and your
friends are the cast of heroes. Will you send them to
battle with the evil wizard or recover the Dragons’
hoard? The chvice is yours, and Dreweoncer makes the
exching world of fantasy role-playing accessible in a
thoroughly user-friendly manner.

BLACKSAND!
Miee Gascoigne and Pete Tanilun

Spravwiing like the corpse of some giant ¢resture, Part
Blacksand is a festering dem of pirates and brigands.
Unforeseen dangers lurk around every street corner and
im every dark alleyway. Devious plots and crimes are
hatched in eyery taverm. Thieves and assassins sli
through the shadows. Ancient mtysteres lurk in the ce!-
lars and sewers. But the infamous City af Thieves is
also home to excitement and adventure beyond
compare!

The second volume in the Advanced Fighting Fantasy
serics which slarted wilh Desigeower.
Stew Jactson's

SORCERY! 1

‘Yourscach forthe legendary Cro of Kings akesyouts
{he Shatnulan le Alive with el cstares, lawless
‘andere and bonbialy moneters, the land i ide
‘wih iss and tape witing for heunseary uaveller. WL
fou be able Io cose the lle sofely sod proceed to the
Second part of the adventure or wil fou perish i the
atlempe

SORCERY!2

Asa worrorselying on force ofarm, ora wizard ined
tngi, you sua brave he eer of a ty fit rp Se
tunwory, You will ned ll your ws about vou to sure
Une uinaginable Roars end and to make sense of he
‘es which may lead to yoursuctess- orto sour doom!

SORCERY!3
Seven deadly and magical serpents speed ahead of you's

‘warn the Archmage of otrcoming, Willyou beableto
‘alc them before hey get there?

SORCERY! 4

_Atthcend of vourlong uek you fae the unknown lenors
ofthe Mampung Fortes Hiden ioside the Kesp 5 the
(Crown ofkings~ the ultimate gol of he Sorcery epic But
beware! For you have not defeated lhe Sevan Serpents,
_pourartval hae been anticpsted

Complete with all he magical spells you wil
teed each ule can be payed either ons ow,
ofthe whol epie

OUT OF THE FIT
Fighting Fantasy Monsters

Steve Jacksun and Ian Livizigsione

From the darkest corncrs, frum the deepest pools and
from the dungeons thought only to exist in nightmares
come the Fighting lantssy monsters — the downfall of
many a brave warrior. lwo hundred and fifty of these
loathsome avcatares fram the wild and dangerous
worlds of Fighting Fantary are collected here — some
are old adversaries, many vou have vet to me=t— each
of them described in minute detail. An indispenssble
yuide for Fighting Fantasy adventurer!

FIGHTING FANTASY
Steve facksou

The wold of Fighting Fantasy, peopled by orc.
draguns, zombies and vampires, has ceplured the
imagination of millions of readers world-wide, Thrilling
wiventures of sword and surcery come to life and the
reader is the hera, dicing with death and demons in
search of villains. treasure or freedom. Now you can
create your uwn Fighting Fantasy adventures and send
your friends otf on dangerous missions! In this Cesriy
written handbnok, there are hints on devising com-
bats, monsters fo use, Licks and tactics, as well 25 lwo
nuni-adventures to start with. The ideal intoducton
tu the fast-growing world of role-playing games.

THE TROLLTOOTH WARS
Steve frcksan

It started with an ambush. When Bulthus Dire’s bloud-
lusting Hill Goblins mount their raid on the Strongarm
caravan, ttle do they realize whal dramatic conse
quences their actions will have. For that caravan carries
Cunnelwort, a mystical herb from Eastern Allansia, des-
tined for none other than the evil sorcerer, Zharriacdan
Marr! War — between two forces well-matched for evil
— is soon fo ensuc ... Vill Balfhus Dire’s chaotics or
Zharcradan Marr's undead prove victorious? The answer
is here, in the firs: Fighting Fantasy novel.

DEMONSTEALER
VMfarc Gusesigne

It started with a burglary. Borne alot on the back of an
immense bat, a sinister thicf breaks into the tower of the
sorcerer Yaztromo. Guided by long-dead voices, he mar.
ages fo make off with an ancient scroll whose scerets
coukd spell doom and destruction for all Allansia!

Chicka Darkmane is soon on the trail of the thief. Bul
as the quest crows ever longes, his nagging doubts abaut
the power of spreery fam into nightmares. Uhe frail
leads “ar beyond northern Allansia. to the Pirate Coast
and the twisting alleyways of Rimon, where Dark-
mane’s nightmares become flesh! For the thief has used
the ancient scroll to summon others to help him in his
sorcerous task, Demons whe are not buund by the con-
straints uz earthly forms — who feast on the human spirit.

A few brave companions accompany Darkmane. bul
will they be enough — artd in time — to stop the thict
from unlocking Fhe fnal secret of Yaztromo’s scroll?
Demorsteaer, the second Fighting Fantasy novel in a
seties that began with Tiw Troflisoth War, holds all the
answers.
