APPOINTMENT WITH F.E.A.R.

Tough, wurneous, ineerupible chumpon of lw and
ler, YOU se the Siver Canaan, ning your per
poses proc the lnocenl clizene of teeing Ta
(by fom ciel nechieshes ute hastol sop lah

‘Arsh rllainof tem alls the Mtanumn Cyborg, ead of he
Salons REAR unpenieston. Terormin, voles Md
rapping and compton nothing i too ev for BELA R

So hen fats leaks oul ofa scel wneeling of FEAR.

Ines here ita City, yr mission cle: oder
the location of the meeting capture the Tilarium Cybors
jn his coho and Bring ther = justice

‘Thece a our super powers to choose rom, clues o find,
Hers Pemts peter aecund neve este the Hehe
Fanvacy combat system ae Steve Jnckson's arming new
semabuk throws ya up agnnat the mnt chalanging
Fost dangerons adventor of ther ail All YOU need
Uredice = pencll and an eraser Many dangers le ahead

Seve Jackson is te co-founder (with lon Litingstone) of
the hugely sucsall Gaunes Workehoo chai,
Fizhring Fantasy Gonelvuk=

TOTMEWARLOR KK DX DIRETOO"
MUUNTAIN
2 THE CITAGEL Ch CHACe
SCTE PORPST OG DOOM
3. STASSHIF TRAVELLER
S CUTE CUTTY TSS
9 DEATHTRAP DUNGEON
SIS ANDO DEL LIZARD SING
9 SOOGTION SHAM
9. CAVERNS OF THE SNOtY WHICH
TE PIDILE OX
UU. TALSMAN CE C€aT=
V2 SUALE ASAAtSIN
13 FREEWAY FICHTER
15MM TE KE
15 THE RINCS CE RETHIER
In SEAS Ce Sw
TF AISUINTMENTRITH ES AR
1& REBCL PLANET
WW DIMAS LE THE DSEr
ah SWORD OF THE SAMURAI
71. TRIALCINCT AMOS
= ROBOT COMMANDC
Zi MASKS May! Od
2. CREATURE OF Havoc
Soceu daz hacer s SORCERY!

1 TUES AMUTANTILOLLS
2 KEASE - CITYFORT OF TRAPS

SS SEREATS ACH IMARE CASILE

26 CRY Cf TIE SORIA

>. STARSTRIDER

7h TVIART RAG LO AR

=. MOONGGAT ROCUE

TULL TIA*2A5 1 ALD

31. SATTLEBLADE WASSIIS

Sa SLAVES OM THE ABy5S

= SKY LORD

34 ST=ALER OF SOULE

Th DACA OFF D4ARKNING

3o. ARMS OF DEATH

7. PUMISL OF en

3 VAULT OF TSE VALSSE

Me MONS Of fel:

2. DEAD CE NAT

41. ASTER OF CHACS

17. 0 ACK VEIN PS ay

42. THE SEEP CE THE CH LORD

14.10 S0ND DF TN SILA
WARRICES

1. 4I TRALM SIAL

NIMES ER “200 TINTS
4. THE CRO‘“AN CE KINCS

Ta TIING: SARTASY ~ Tee Irodacory Scie aring Come
THE NIDOLNG SEAVER - Four thealles edvcctuns
TES TROULLICR ID | WARS 4 Digcting Deteer Novel

Steve Jackson

Mustrated by Declan Considine

DEMONSTESLER «s Fielutirg Fariasy Nov

tou Advanced tHeticg fantacy ‘iyttem

DUTOFTIEIMT Fahting Fare Merete Puffin Books
TITAN, Tra: Fighing Fosters Weral

UURLIINDER = An intreccetion . ote Cron of Role" becnr Saar

ELACKSANC! Alecuocd Faltiog Purliory
Deitel to BL.
a Superliera in his ores ony
CONTENTS

HOW TO BATTLE THE SUPER-VILLAINS
OF TITAN CITY
9

SUPER POWERS AND CLUES
18

ADVENTURE SHEET
22
BACKGROUND
24
APPOINTMENT WITH F-E.A-R.
29
HOW TO BATTLE THE
SUPER-VILLAINS OF TITAN CITY

In Appoimtment with F_E.A.R., YOU will become the
Silver Crusader, a superhero with unusual powers,
dedicated to saving the citizens of Titan City from
came. You will come actoss robberies, kidnappings
and destruction — crimes committed by a host of
super-yillains. You must also find out where the
fateful meeting between the heads of F_E.A-R. (the
Federation of Euro-American Rebels) is due to take
place and capture Vladimir Utoshski, otherwise
known as the Titanium Cyborg, F.E.A.R.’s leader.

You do not have only your super powers to aid you.
Through your Crimewatch your friend and infor-
mant Gerry the Grass will alert you to crimes even
before they are committed, and you can keep in
touch with the police. And as you fight and over-
come villains of the underworld, you will discover
clues. Some clues will enable you to locate arch-
criminals and arrest them; others will give you
information on the whereabouts of the secret
F_E_A-R- meeting.

You begin the adventure with a choice of four super
powers. With Super Strength, you are powerful and
have the ability to fly. Psi-Powers enable you to read
minds and influence objects by brain-power alone.
ETS (Enhanced Technological Skill) provides you
with a variety of devices and gadgets which you

9
carry round in your Accessory Belt. If you choose
Enersy Blast, you can summon up a bolt of energy
and project it from your fingertips. Depending on
which power you chouse, the solution to the book
(finding the location of the F.E.A.R. meeting) will be
different. Once vou have solved it with one power,
you can try it again with another.

And you may also monitor your success with your
Hero Points score. When you overcome super
villains, you will be awarded Hero Points to allow
you to compare the success of one adventure with
another.

Because of these new features, the rules to Appornt-
ment with F.E.A.R. differ a little from other nghting
Fantasy Gamebooks, Combat is basically the same,

but you will find several new sections in the follow-
ing, rules.

Before setting off to fight the super-villains of Titan
City, you must first determine your Own SKIL1,
STAMINA and LUCK scores by rolling dice as des-
cribed below, On pages 22-3 there is an Adventure
Steet which you may use to record the details of
your adventure, You are advised either to make
records on the Adzentire Sheet in pencil or to take
photocopies of the page te use in future adventures.

10

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter the
total in the SKILL box on the Adzenture Shieel. The
exception to this is if you have Super Strength, in
which case vou will start with an aulomatic sKILu
score of 13.

Roll tvo dice. Add 12 to the number rolledand enter
the total im the STAMINA Dox.

There is also a LUCK box. Roll one die and add 6 ta
the number rolled. Enter this total in the Ltucx box.

For reasons that will be explained below, sxiut,
STAMINA and LUCK scores change constantly dur-
ingan adventure. You must keep an accurate record
of these scores and for this reason you are advised
either to write small in the boxes orto keep an eraser
handy. But never rub out your Ifa! scores.
Although you may be awarded additional sKiL1.,
STAMINA and LUCK points, these totals may never
exceed your Imifial scores.

Your SKILL score reflects both fighting and
problem-solving skills; the higher your sKILL score
the better. Your STAMINA score reflects your gen-
eral constitution, your will to survive, your deter-

mimation and overall fitness; the higher your STA-
MINA score, the longer you will be able to survive.

Your LUCK score indicates how naturally hicky a
person vou are- é

11
Battles

You will often came across pages in the book which
instruct you to fight a villain of some sort. If so, you
must resolve the combat as described below.

First record the villain’s sk1LL and STAMINA scores
in the first vacant ‘Villain Encounter Box on your
Adventure Sheet. The scores for each villain are given
in the book each time you have an encounter.

Unlike other Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks, you
may not kill the criminals you are fighting. As a
sworn upholder of justice, you may not take the life
of a super-villain, no matter how evil he or she may
be. But they will be attempting to kill you! Lf you
manage lo reduce the STAMINA score of a criminal
to zero, you have killed him and must lose 1 Hero
Point as a result. When a criminal has been reduced
to 1 or 2STAMINA points, he will surrender himself
to YOu.

The sequence of combat is then:

1. Roll two dice once for the criminal. Add his
SKILL score. This total is the cimimal’s Atiack
Strength.

2. Roll two dice once for yourself. Add your own
current SKILL score. This total is your Attack
Strength.

. If your Attack Strength is higher than his, you
have landed a blow: proceed to step 4 If ‘the
criminal’s Attack Strength is higher than yours,
he has landed a blow on you: proceed to step 5. if

J

2

both Attack Strengths are equal, you have
avoided each other’s blows: start the next Attack
Round from step 1 above.

. You have landed a blow on the criminal, so

subtract 2 points from his STAMINA score. You
may use your LucK here to do additional damage
(see over).

. The criminal has landed a blow on you, so sub-

tract 2 points from your STAMINA score. Again,
you may use LUCK at this stage (see over).

Make the appropriate adjustments to either the
criminal’s or your own STAMINA scores, and to
your LUCK score (if you used LUCK).

. Begin the next Attack Round (repeat steps 1-6).

This sequence continues until the sTAMINA
score of the criminal has been reduced to 2 or less
or your own STAMINA has been reduced to zero.
A ciminal with a sTaAMINA of 2 or 1 is semi-
conscious and will give himself up. ASTAMINA
score of zero (for you or the criminal) is equiva-
lent to death. [f you killa criminal, you must lose
1 Hero Point, so be careful about this and use
your LUCK when appropriate.

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either m
battles or when you come across situations in which
you could be cither lucky or unlucky (details of
these are given on the pages themselves), you may
call on your LUCK to make the oulcome more
favourable. But beware! Using Lvcx is a risky busi-
ness and if you are unlucky, the resulis could be
disastrous,

The procedure for using your LUCKIs as follows: roll
two dice. If the number rolled is equal to orless than
your current LUCK score, you have been Lucky and
the result will go in your favour. If the number
rolled is higher than your current LUCK score, you
have been Unlucky and will be penalized.

‘This procedure is known as Testing your Luck. Each
time you Tesi your Luck, you must subtract 1 point
from your current LUCK score. Thus you will soon
realize that the more you rely on your Luck, the
more risky this will become.

Lising Luck in Battles

On certain pages of the book you will be told to Test
your Luck, and will be told the consequences of being
Luc ‘ky or Unlucky. However, in battles, you always
have the option of using your LUCk either to inflict a
more serious blow on the criminal you have just hit,

or to minimize the effects of a blow the criminal has
just inflicted on you.

14

If you have just landed a blow on the criminal, you
may Test your Luck as desenbed above. If you are
Lucky, you have landed a severe blaw and may
subtract an extra 2 points from the criminal’s
STAMINA score. If you are Unlucky, however, the
blow glanced offand you must restore 1 point to the
ciiminal’s STAMINA {i.e, instead of inflicting 2
points of damage, you have inflicted only 1).

If the criminal has just hit you, you may Test your
Luck to try to minimize the effects. If you are Lucky,

you have managed to avoid the full force af the
blow. Restore 1 point of STAMINA (ic. instead of
taking 2 points of damage, you take only 1). If you
are Unlucky, you have taken a more serious blow
and must subtract 1 extra STAMENA point from your
score.

Remember that each time you Test your Luck you
must subtract 1 point from your own LUCK score.

Restoring Skill, Stamina and Luck

instructions for restoring your SKILL, STAMINA
and tucx scores will be given in the pages of the
book as appropriate. sTAMINA ‘vill be restored
when you rest at home in the evening. STAMINA
bonuses are difficult to come by, so be careful! Luck
points will be gained when you find some clues,

45
Hero Points

As you defeat super-villains and solve crimes, you
will be awarded Hero Points, to be recorded on your
Adventure Sheet, Hera Points have nothing to do
with your main objective, which is to locate the
secret F.E.A.R. meeting and capture Vladimir
Utoshsk, the Titanium Cyborg. Hero Points are a
measure of how successful you have been in your
adventure, Each time you go through the book,
record your Hero Points score and compare each
adventure with previous ones. As you will find, if
you try a different super power, the solution to the
book will be different, so you can rate your own
performances with each of the four powers.

Clues

Whichever super power you begin the game with,
you will have knowledge of two clues which will
help you trace and capture Titan Gity’s criminals.
Indeed, you will not be able to find some of the
villains without knowledge of the appropriate
clues.

16

In fact there are two types of clue. Some relate to the
villains and their crimes — the ones you start with are
of this type. Others relate to the secret F.E.A.R.
meeting. Without finding the necessary clues to the
mecting, you will never be able to prevent it, with
disastrous results for Titan City! So bear in mind
that you must find these F.E.A-R. clues, ancl re-
member also that, when vou try the advenhire
using a different super power, the F.E.A.R. clues
that vou need will be held by different villains!

i7
SUPER POWERS AND CLUES

You are Jean Lafayette, the product ofa dangerous—
but successful — genetic experiment. Although
seemingly normal as a child, it became apparent m
your early teens that you were a far from ordinary
human being. You are gifted with a superhuman
power, which you have sworn to use only for the
benefit of your fellow man, As the Silver Crusader,
you are well known to the population of Titan City.
Most people admire you, some distrust you, but all
members of the underworld fear you. Only your
parents, who are both dead, ever knew your real
identity and the origin of your powers.

In the adventures ahead, you will begin with one of
four powers. During your daily activities and en-
counters with disasters and super-criminals, you
will have two objectives. First, you must learn the
whereabouts of the secret meeting of F.£.A.R. (the
Federation of Euro-American Rebels) which is due
to take place within the next few days. This danger-
ous alliance of master-criminals and enemy agents
is planning to overthrow the governments of the
western world and establish their own rule. Second-
ly, you may assess your own performance as 2
superhero by trying to gain as many Hero Points as
possible,

18

Before you start each adventure, vou may choose
which super power to start with, from the four
powers listed below. You will also start the game
with knowledge of two clues. Following the de-
Scription of each super power, you will find instruc-
tions on where to find your clues, which are hidden
in the text of the adventure. Before you turn to
reference 1 to start your adventure, choose your
super power, locate and read the clues and enter the
information on your Adventure Skeet.

Super Strength

You have the strength of many men. The muscles of
your immensely powerful legs and arms buige
through the fabric of your costume. They are de-
veloped to the point of perfection and, in combat
situations, you always fight with a skKILt. of 13. You
also have the power to fly through the air at any
speed you wish. This allows you to hover unsup-
ported above the ground or to chase and catch up
with the fastest jet.

To find the first of your clues, turn to reference 127-
For your other clue, you may choose one from the
following:

108 280 312

19
Psi-Powers

You have extraordinary mental abilities. You are
able to reach into the thoughts of most other hu-
mans (and same animals) to read their minds and
influence them. You also have limited powers to
make objects move mentally and even to change the
very nature of some elements, However, using this
power is an envyrmous mental effort for you. Each
time you use your Psi-Power, you must deduct 2
STAMINA points.

Turn to 222 to discover your first due. You may also
choose one clue from the following:

280 152 108

Enhanced Technological Skill (ETS)

Your considerable intelligence has allowed you to
develop a whole collection of hi-tech gadgetrr.
Through advanced micro-circuitry designs, you
have been able to miniaturize most of these gadgets
so that they will fit conveniently into a special
Accessory Belt worn around your waist. Whatever
the situation, you are usually fortunate enough to
have something appropriate to use. However, you
have avoided developing weaponry in case any
weapon vou developed should ever fall into the
wrong hands and be used by the criminal clement to
wreak untold havoc.

20

You start the adventure with two clues, which must
be chosen from the following list:

280 88 152

Energy Blast

You are able to summon up electrostatic energy
from within your own body and channel it out
through your lingertips. You can aim these Energy
Bolts af adversaries or objects and your control is
such that you know before you aim how much force
will be needed to deal with therm. You have taken a
personal oath that you will only stun any /iuma
target, no matter how villainous your opponent
may be. When using Exergy Blasi, you need only
determine whether or not your aim is true; if you hit
a human opponent, the effect will be an automatic
stun. Test your aim by rolling two dice, If the result
is equal fo or fess (han your SKILL score, the Bolt has
hit. If the result is higher Hum your skit, you have
missed and a normal battle must be fought or the
situation must be resolved as per the instmictions in
the text. Sometimes you will not be able to use a
second Bolt. Fach time vou use Frergy Blast, you
must deduct 2 STAMINA points.

Your first clue wall be found at reference 88. Por your
second clue, you may choose one of the following:

222 32 280

21
VILLAIN ENCOUNTER

SKILL STAMINA LUCK
hirttial Initial Inifial
Skill= Stamina= Luack=
CLUES SUPER POWER

Super Strength
Psi-Powers
Energy Blast
ETS

HERO POINTS

BOXES
Skill= Skill= Skill=
Shuuinas Stamuine= Stamina=
Skitt= Skill= Skill=
Stamina= Stantina= Stuniua=
Skili= Skil= Skill=
Stanuna= Stamire= Stmirtna=
Skill= Skill= Skill=
Staminae= Stantinae Stamiint=

BACKGROUND

The time of your birth was an anxious moment for
your parents and their doctors. Your mother had
consented to undergo an experimental form of
genetic surgery. Lhe doctors had warned her of the
dangers of the radiation experiments; their research
programme was nowhere near complete. Bul this
she already knew, for she herself was one of the
researchers. The work had reached the stage where
progress was impossible without testing it on a
human subject. Your father had not fully under-
stood the implicafions when he gave his consent,
and eight pairs of apprehensive eyes watched your
arrival into the world.

Their first reaction was one of relief. You certainly
seemed a normal, healthy baby. Post-natal tests
showed no physical deformities whatsoever. In
fact, you appeared to be a fine speamen. In your
younger years your development was carefully
monitored with a seemingly endless series of phys-
iological and psychological tests, all of which you

24

passed with flying colours. The doctors and re-
searchers congratulated themselves; their experi-
ments were a complete success. However, the
experiments had been conducted in a shroud of
secrecy. Had the world known of the risks of the
expenment, public outcry would have been
overwhelming. lt would certainly have put an end
to further genetic research. And from your mother’s
point of view, she had no wish to haye the world
regard you as an experimental freak. Only a few
knew what had really happened.

Over the years, the testing stopped as the doctors
felt more and more certain that there was no need to
monitor your progress. As fate would have it, itwas
just when this testing stopped that it became clear
that you were anything but a normal child. Your
latent superhuman powers did not shaw them-
selves until after the doctors had Jost interest.

Your parents, who had become thoroughly fed up
with the endless tests, decided that your extraordin-
ary powers must remain a secret from the world.
They had no wish to have you studied as some kind
of freak for the rest of your life.

You have a regular job working in an office of a
medium-sized company. But when duty calls, you
become the Silver Crusader, upholder of justice;
and you have taken an oath to serve in the fight
against crime in Titan City. Apart from your own
super abilities, you have one other device to aid you
— your Crimewatch. This neat little device, worn

25
around your wrist, receives and broadcasts trans-
missions to and from your twa most important
allies, You can be contacted by police headquarters
through this Crimewatch and you can also summon
the police to aid you. In addition, your friend and
underworld contact Gerry the Grass is able to warn
you of impending crimes through the Crimewatch.

y

Gerry the Grass has recently become aware of an
important mecting about to take place within the
next few days, Vladimir Utoshski, leader of
F.E.A_R. (the Federation of Euro-American Rebels),
has been summoning his aides-in-crime to meet in
Titan City. Utoshski, also known as the Titanium
Cyborg, is a super-villain whose field of expertise is
the electronic enhancement of human abilities. He
is part man, part machine — and very dangerous.
Gerry the Grass has not yet found out where or

26

when the meeting is due, but one thingis certain. Its
purpose is to itnalize plans for a scheme which
would mean disaster for the western world. The
meeting must be stopped! You must find out where
and when this meeting is due to take place and
preventitatall costs . . .

NOW TURN OVER
t

As you walk the ten blocks to work that morning,
you can’t help but feel that something is not quite
nght. You stop by 2 telephone booth to consider
what it could be-

The sounds of the city are the usual $a.m.
cacophony. Cars and buses bounce pastalong Clark
Street, their drivers too sleepy even lo try to avoid
the pits and bumps in the road. A newspaper-
vendor bawls an incomprehensible headline —
something about a robbery — at the crowds of men
and women milling past him on their ways to work.
Overhead in the sky the rhythmic beating of a traffic
‘copter’s blades fades into the distance. An argu-
ment is taking place between an elderly business-
man and an oyer-large woman wilh an untrained
dog. whose sidewalk deposits have offended the
businessman. There is nothing unusual... or is
there?

The difference is only barely perceptible, but there is
a distinct air of tension in the streets. There are
nervous twitches in the eyes of the passers-by; the
cars are accelerating and braking in a jittery manner
— little things like that. To your heightened senses,
the atmosphere is pregnant. Today will not be just
another day.

Your thoughts are broken by the high-pitched wail-
ing of a police siren. A yellow and black Cougar G5
scteeches round the corner and leaps ahead
through the Clark Street traffic before swinging lett
1

into Audubon Park. Behind it, the traffic settles back
into its regular flow. Yourattention drifts back to the
argument. A small crowd has built up around the
man and woman. Raised voices are taking one side
or the other and the situation is beginning to look
nasty. What will you do next:

Go over and see if you can break

up the argument? Turn to 263
Run after the police car into

Audubon Park? Turn to 289
Buy a newspaper to find out about

the robbery? Turn to 228
Ignore all these incidents and so

to work? Turn to 341

2x3

2

You manage to seal the lid on the crate, thus trap-
ping the creature that was Mustapha Kareem.
Kareem’s jacket fell off the Mummy's shoulders as
you hurled it into the crate and now lies on the
ground. You pick it up and rummage through the
pockets. You find two pieces of paper inside. One
bears the emblem of F_E.A.R- and you unfold it
quickly. The bottom half of the paper is ripped off,
but the message reads: “Meeting in executive
jet . . “ Thesecond piece of paperisa scribbled note
which simply says ‘Crate’, followed by an Egyptian
hieroglyphic character. You check the crates in the
room. One bears a symbol identical to that on the
note. Inside are a number of pieces of gold jew ellery
which match those on the main exhibit! Kareem had
been stealing these and replacing them with imita-
tions! Having now exposed the fraud, you may
hand the affair over to the police. Award yourself 4
Hero Points and tum to 276.

3
You hide behind the gate until Bronski is close.
When you can hear his footsteps approaching, you
spring out to confront him. The startled killer
reaches into his coat and pulls out a weapon: a
battery-powered electric knife! Resolve your com-
bat with him:

‘CHAINSAW’ BRONSKI skILL& sTAMINAS

If you manage to defeat him, turn to 93.
475

4

You arrive at the circus as preparations are being
made for the evening's performance. Carayans are
clustered around the huge big top and round the
back are the animal cages. A dwarl dressed in a
clown‘s outfit comes running over to you as you
armive. He cannot talk, but mstead honks a bicycle
horn excitedly, grabs your hand and pulls. He
seems to want you fo follow him. Will you follow
him as he wishes (turn to 399)? Or will vou head for
the lion cages (turn to 310) or an importantdooking
caravan in the centre (turn to 223}?

5

You try valiantly to smash the door. But your efforts
are futile against so solid a door, Your best plan
would have been not to waste your strength on this
door, because in trying to smash it, you injure
yourself. Deduct 1 sku. and 2 STAMINA paints
(if your power is Super Sirength, deduct only 2
STAMINA points). [urn now to 60.

6
How will you escape from your prison? There seems
to be only one plan open to you. You will haye touse
a bolt of energy to blast through the door. But the
door is ten centimetres of solid metal! Its weak spot
must be the small glass window set in the door. You
prepare yourself and unleash a controlled blast. The
glass turns from red to yellow as it melts. The heal
inside the chamber is tremendous, but a welcome
rush of cool air hits your face as the glass drops
away. There is just enough room for you to reach
out and grasp the handle to release yourself. With
great relief, you step out into the corridor. Voices
are coming from behind a door at the far end of
the passage and you step up, ready for action. Tum

to 298
7

7
You fight your way through the cowd until you
reach a spot where you can just about see the cars
arrive up the avenue over the heads of the crowd in
front of you. Twenty minutes later, the cavalcade
arrives and cheers go up from the crowd. As the
President's car approaches, you catch sight ofa man
in front of you struggling with something. ITis hand
comes free —he is holding a gun and is preparing to
point it at the President! You are mm your street
clothes and cannot use your super powers, but you
must clo something to prevent the man getting a
shot at the President. You leap on him from behind:

ASSASSIN

After the second round of combat, turn to 359-

SkILLF #STAMINA6

You grab the little thief by his shoulderand turn him
round, telline him that he must not steal; he must
work hard and earn the money he needs to buy whal
he wants. A sneer breaks out across the boy’s face
and he reaches into his pocket as if to get the
Munchie Bars. But when his hand comes out it ts
gripping a loaded pistol! His sneer changes to a sly
smile as he pulls the trigger and, from this range, he
cannot miss. Your life asa superhero isover.. .

9
You establish line-of-sight with the man and
woman in the centre of the crowd and concentrate.
As your powers take effect, their argument dwin-
dles and ceases. They look around in astonishment
at the crowd which has built up. The woman shrugs
her shoulders and walks off with her dog. The man
laoks towards you and freezes. Keeping your Psi-
Powers focused on him for as long 4s you are able,
you realize this man is not as he appears. He is

desperately trying to keep from you some dark

secret. His thoughts go to the gald watch on his
wrist but then he fights to keep the watch out of his
mind. He briefly focuses on a pawnbroker’s shop
which is next toa diner. Could he be a pawnbroker?
You will never know, for in the next instant he
breaks line-of-sight and disappears into the cowd.
You spring forward to try to relocate him, butitis no
use. Meanswvhile, the crowd has long since lost in-
terest in its arguments and fifty wide-eyed faces are
staring at you. You decide to leave. After changing,
you may:

Head into Audubon Park Turn to 165
Go to work Tum to 342
Buy a paper Turn to 228

10

10

You leave the airport and head for home. What a
day! Youslumpintwoachairin frontofthe TVand relax
with a long, cold drink. You may add 6 sTAMINA
Points for the rest. One thing disturbs you. Your
boss, Jonah Whyte, will be livid when you tun up
for work tomorrow. You will have to invent some
pretty convincing excuses... The next morning
you set off to work early. You decide to travel by
subway to make sure you get to work on time. But
since when has a superhero’s life ever been easy?
‘HELP? shouts a voice further up the crowded
carnage. ‘Pickpocket!’ Oh, no . - . just what you
needed. You force your way through the crowd on
the busy train. As you reach the pickpocket's victim,
that familiar beep — beep — beep sounds from your
Crimewatch. Ts electronic voice speaks: “RADD
SQUARE. HURRY.” You sigh. But what will you do?
The train is pulling into a station and you will have
to change trains immediately if you are to reach
Radd Square quickly. If you want to do this, turn to
201. If you want to apprehend the pickpocket, tum
to 185.

it1-12

11

You fly up in the air to the floating vapour. As you
approach it, you spin your body round in the air like
a top. Your ‘plan is working! You are sucking the
brown cloud back down to the ground. As it swirls
about, it begins to solidify and when you reach the
sround, it has turned into ihe dazed personage of
the Smoke. Although you have managed to defeat
the arch-criminal — and you may award yourself 2
Hero Points for this — you have not managed to
prevent him sending radio photographs of the doc-
tor’s notes to the headquarters of F.E.A.R. Turn to
162.

Your Energy Bolt smashes into the side of beef
speeding towards you, but hardly slows it down at
all. Perhaps the freeziny cold has affected your
Frnergy Blast. But you have no time to wonder about
thisnow. You must take evasive action. Turn to 436-

13-14

13

You race down the escalator after him. But he has
quite a head start on you; and he knows that you
will not use your powers with so many people
about. You start to gain on him as you reach the first
flaor. He looks over his shoulder and sees how clase

you are. You can tell he is beginning to panic.
Halfway down the last escalator, he strips off his
jacket and flings it al your feet. Suddenly vou are
falling fornvards, your feet ensnared in the chains
dangling from the jacket. Damn! As you land ina
heap af the foot of the escalator, you see him dis-
appear oul of the door into the street. You will never
catch him now. You pick up the jacket and search
through the pockets for possible clues. Stuftecl in
one pocket you find a cumpled piece of paper and
yourcyes light up as you see the mark of F.E_A.R. al
the top! The message reads: ‘Don't forget, We need
the merchandise in time for our meeting on the
28th. Donot failus.’ Atleast your effort has not been
entirely in vain. You return to the third floor to make
sure the other three thugs are handed over to the

police. Turn to 380-

14

You search his shop. The place is littered with cheap
jewellery, cameras, electrical goods and tatty furs.
The back room is much the same. There seems to be
nothing here. You may either leave and try the diner
next door (turn lo 352), or try something else (Lurn

to 368).
_
a

= ~ 15

Wisneyland is swarming with holiday-makers en-
joying their day out at the amusement park. The
smell of candy-floss and hot dogs hangs in the air
and, as you stroll about, youngsters clutching
stuffed animals run laughing past vou. Screams of
delight fom roller-coaster riders turning through
the corkscrew break through the general hubbub.
You are going to enjoy yourself today. Which ride
do vou want to try:

The Big Dipper? lurn to 187
The Fun House? Tum to 174
The Dodgems? Turn to 357

-

16

16

You tic the three of them up and release Drew
Swain, then summon the police on your
Crimewatch. While you wait for them t arnve, you
peruse the Mantrapper’s fiendish traps. Apart om
the bath trap which has made him famous (when
the victim pulls the plug, the plug-hole opens up to
swallow both him and the water), you are particu-

larly impressed by a handkerchief net. When held
by ene corner and shaken,. the handkerchief turns
into a strong nylon net big enough and strong
enough to trap a man. You run through the miscel-
laneous bric-a-brac which litters his work-bench
and come up with what may provide useful in-
formation; you have found a diary. Reading
through it, you learn that he has been in contact
with Sidney Knox, a research assistant at the Mur-
dack Nuclear Laboratories. Knox is a peaceful type
who spends his spare time watching migratory
birds from a tall observation tower at the Labore-
tory. But he is under the Mantrapper’s control and
will do his bidding. With this knowledge you may
locate him easily should the need arise. If you are
offered the opportunity to search for Knox, deduct
40 from the reference you are onat the time and furn
to this new reference to locate him. You may add 1
LUCK point for this information. Eventually the
police arrive and take charge. You may award your-
self 3 Hero Paints. Now turn to 428.

a

17-18

17

You step back into the bushes to change, having
deaded it best f visit the jeweller’s in your street
clothes. You make your way to a seedy jeweller’s
you have seen on gth Avenue. ‘Nah. Cheap stuff,’
says a crouched, balding man who rubs his un-
shaven chin. “Don’t get much call for mono

medallions. Tell ya what. Give ya five
and a half for it.’ You explain that it is not for
sale and leave his store. Turn to 181.

18

Whata day! Youslump into a chair in front of the TY
and relax with a long, cold drink. You may add 6
STAMINA points for the rest. One thing disturbs
you. Your boss, Jonah Whyte, will be livid when
you tum up for work tomorrow. You will have ta
invent some pretty convincing excuses. . . The next
moming you set off to work early. This time you will
travel by subway to make sure you get to work on
time. But since when has a superhero’s life ever
been easy? ‘HELP! shouts a voice further up the
crowded carmage. “Pickpocket!’ Oh, no. . - Just what
you needed. You force your way through the crowd
on the busy frain. As you reach the pickpocket’s
victim, that familiar feep — beep — beep sounds from
your Crimewatch. Its electronic yoice speaks: ‘cow-
FIELD DAIRY. FAST.’ Typical! Another dilemma!
The train stops at a station only a block away from
Cowfield Dairy. Will you feap out and see what is
happening there (turn to 369), or will you instead
aid the pickpocket’s victim (turn to 185)?
19-20

19
The others are shocked at the defeat of their leader.
They surrender to you. You lock them im their
conference room and guide the jet back to Parker
Airport where you hand them over to the author-

ilies. lurn to 440.

fa

20

You spread the map out It is a map of Titan City,
and well used, by the looks of things. Fingers have
rubbed the printing off one area and a small black
cross marks the spot. It is approximately at the
junction of 12th Street and 2nd Avenue. But there is
no clue on the map as to what this could be. You fold
the map up and put il back in your pocket. Turn
to 86.

21-22

21

The citizens of Titan City have turned out in their
thousands to greet the President. They line bath
sides of 7th Avenue six deep, and the presidential
car is still not due to arrive for half an hour. Spirits
are high. There is much flag-waving and bands are
playing in the streets asa prelude to the arrival, Will
you spend the next half hour in a coffee bar waiting
for the main procession ta arrive (turn te 100), or will
you find a place in the crowd which offers a decent
wiew (turn to 7)?

22

At point-blank range, you fire an Energy Bolt into
the Creature’s chest. Ithowlsin pain and releases its
grip on the girders. It buries its head in its massive
hands and you watch as a remarkable transforma-
tion takes place. The Creature writhes aboul and, as
it does so, if shrinks in size! Before your eyes, it
reduces to the form of a man and you recognize the
face. The Creature of Carnage is none other than
lilya Karpov, known agent of F.E.A.R. Karpov
tums fo face you and you must fight him:

ILLYA KARPOY
if you defeat him, turn to 364.

SKILLS STAMINAS
23-24

23

As the Silver Crusader, you step out towards the
limousine. The police have Cleared the crowd back
to a safe distance, Two ambulances and a fire engine
have arrived. The situation seems te be under con-
trol. Bui the spread of the fire is a little worrying: itis
heading towards the tank! The two men inside
the car — the chauffeur and his passenger — look
thoroughly shaken. Will you use your super powers
to aid the men (turn to 366), or will you wait to see
how the fire brigade do first (turn to 244)?

24

You fling open the back door and your eyes scan the
dirty yard outside. In the far corner of the walled
yard is a pile of boxes and you can make out a shoe
protruding from behind them. If you have ETSand
wish to use a gadyct, turn to 402. If you wish to use
Psi-Powers, turn to 209. If you wish to use Energy
Bias{, turn to 344. Otherwise turn to 232-

25

You stand powerless before him. He orders you to
leave and you have no choice but to obey him. You
step back towards the door, only to be startled by a
loud fang, followed by the sound of shattering
glass. The Poisoner slumps forward, a trickle of
blood seeping from his forehead. The vial smashes
safely on the floor. A face appears at the window
and you breathe a sich of relief. [tis the office clerk,
holding in his hand a smoking revolver! The danger
is now over and you can leave the reseryoir, Turn
107,

26-27

26

He takes you on a long trek through the zoo until
you eventually teach the administration offices,
where he introduces you to the Director. You ask
him more about the escape. “Good Lord, Crusader,”
he says. ‘1 mean, yes, we have had an escape, but
it's hardly a national disaster. After all, what harm
can an escaping Aardvark do? Might eat a few
termites, but I'm sure no one will shed any tears
over that, will they?’ An Aardvark, you think. The
Director is right: it’s hardly likely to cause any
damage. You leave the zoo, Where wall you go now?
Do you want to follow up the call from the Egyptian
Museum (turn to 158), or do you think it will be too
late now and instead head for home (turn to 113)?

27

Like a sleeping giant, the huge pistons and cogs of
the engine room are motionless. Suddenly, the
squeak of a door opening startles you! Hiding be-
hind one of the huge flywheels, you watch as a
sailor enters, squiris some oil on a couple of wheels,
and leaves. Routine maintenance. You climb the
stairs back up from the engine room- Tum to 368-

28

28

Tre Alchemist steps back and holds his tube up.

Vithout waming, he dashes it on the floor and a
pungent gas fills the bank. You fight to remain
conscious, buf fo no avail. When you awaken, you
are being shaken by a police officer. The Alchemists
have disappeared, taking their booty with them.
The cashiers and customers are likewise regaining
consciousness, but two officers are kneeling over an
elderly woman who does not stir. One of them looks
up and shakes his head- She is dead! Alleyes turn to
you. Had itnot been tor your intrusion, the Alchem-
ists would no doubt have simply run off with their
money and no one would have been hurt. A cloud
of despair descends over you. You are indirectly
responsible forthe woman's death! Yourconfidence
is shaken and you must lose 1 SKILL point. Lose 2
STAMINA points as well, for the effects of the gas.
Turn now to 372-
29-30

29
Suspended in the mist, a small brown cloud is
floating away from the house. If you have Psi-
Powers, turn to 287. If you have Energy Blast, turn to
203. If you have Super Strength, turn to 11, Other-
wise furn fo 153.

30

What is the number of the building you are looking
for on this avenue? Add the number to the number
of the avenue and turn to this reference. If the result
makes no sense, turn to 368:

34-32

31
Roll one die and consult the table below to find out
what damage the dog does:
1,20r3 Thedogcutsyou withits claw. Losez
STAMINA points.
40r5 The dog knocks you backwards into
the wall. Lose 2 STAMINA points. it
also breaks free and bites one of the
bystanders (deduct 1 Hero Point in
this episode).
6 The dog bites you. Tes! your Luck. If

youare Lucky, you suffer 3SrAMINA
points of damage, but survive. if
you are Unlucky, this wound is fatal.

Now return to the previous reference. Each time a
dog wounds you, you must return here io discover
what the effects of the wound are.

32

‘The Macro Brain‘s chopper detects your approach
and turns ta face you. You circle high and descend
on the helicopter. You pick up speed. Five meires
fram your target, you hear the voice of the Macro
Brain yell, ‘SIRE! A wall of flame spurts from the
front of the chopper! You are caught. You scteam in
agony as the flame burns you and you lose con-
sciousness. Down and down you plummet, but
mercifully you will never feel the impact as you
crash ta the ground -

33-34

33
You rush forward and crash heavily into the
mutant, bringing him down to the ground. Resolve
your combat;

SIDNEY KNOX SKILL 5STAMINAG

lf you defeat him, turn fo 140.

34

You arrive at the home af Dr Charles Crayfish, a
wel-known space scientist, on the outskirts of
town. The rain seems to be coming down heavier
here, and a mist is rising. The dooris opened by the
doctor’s maid. She is surprised to see you. ‘Oooh,
the Silver Crusader!’ she titters. “Well, this fs an
honour! We do get lots of important people visiting
— Dr Crayfish is working on the “Star Wars” satel-
lite, you know — but we've never had a superhero
come before. Do come in!’ She tells you that the
doctor is asleep at the moment; he was working very
late last night. De you want her to wake him up for
you (turn to 66), will you ask if you can have a lock
around his study (turn to 403), or will you wail for
him to wake and keep an eve on things im the
meantime (turn to 257)?
35
You hand the Tormentor over to the authorities and

he is bundled off into a waiting police car. You stoop
to pick up a piece of paper which seems to have
fallen from his pocket. Opening it up, you find it
appears to be a note scribbled down, perhaps froma
telephone conversation. The note is ripped in half.

Underlined at the top of the paper is “FEA. .~
Under this is a message which reads: “Meeting on
27th this mon , . .’ You consider this fora moment,
fold the paper up and tuck it into your belt. You may
add 2 Hero Points. Turn to 10.

36
You change and return to question the officer who
immediately snaps to attention when he recognizes
you. The Silver Crusader! Er, nice day.--1.-.-1
mean no... Nota very nice day here. Awful. Ah,
anything I can do to help?’ You tell him to calm
down and ask what happened. Apparently there
has been a mugging, A wealthy businessman stroll-
ing through the park on his way to work had his
throat slashed. But the officer knows no more.
Presumably the police now have matters under
control. There is nothing more you cen do. Turn

to 73.

37-38

37

You take the key outside the room and find Grant
Morley. But he shakes his head, telling you it is nol
his key. You leave the Fun House puzzling over
your find, but your questions are answered when
you see a young boy crying by his bicycle outside.
He has lost the key to the padlock, You hand it over
to him. You may add 1 Hero Point for helping him.
Turn to 103.

You visit the Grass as the Silver Crusader. He lives
in 2 run-down part of town, in a dirty onc:
bedroomed apartment. He is horrified to see you, as
your appearance will surely blow his cover. But, as
always, he has some interesting information.
Apparently, the Mantrapper has control of the mind
of Sidney Knox, a research assistant at the Murdock
Nuclear Laboratories. Normally a passive type — he
spends all his spare time in an observation tower at
the Lab watching migratory birds — Knox has been
implanted with a post-hypnotic suggestion. No one
knows exactly what this is, but Gerry's information
willhelp you. Ifyou find yourself looking for Sidney
Knox, deduct 40 from the reference you are on at the
time and turn to this new reference. You may acld 1
LUCK point for this information. You leave discreet-
ly and go home. The rest of the evening is unevent-
fuland you may add 6stTamina points forthe rest,
Turn to 215.
39-40

39
You head downtown towards the waterfront. But

this is a large area to cover. Are you heading for the
Occanana Marina to check out the luxury yachts
{turn to 370), or for Clancey Bay, a navy dockyard
(turn to 317)?

40
The game has been abandoned and will be replayed
at a later date. What will you do now? You may
cither to to watch the presidential cavalcade on 7th

Avenue (tum to 21), or you may go home to rest for
the day (turn to 312).

41-42

41
You rush into the bakery and ask questions about
their last customer. But it seems there was nothing
unusual about him. He bought a loaf of wholemeal
bread and two custard tarts. The staff dan’t know
anything more about him. [f you have Psi-Powers,
you attempt to read their minds (turn to 246). [f you
have Super Strengik, you may chase after the van
(turn to 424). Otherwise you may go outside to the
scene of the crime and see if there are any other
clues to be picked up (turn to 332).

42

You look through the shelves for something un-
usual. What would he like? A biography? A thriller?
You stop at a new section in the shop, Hmmm.
Could be just right. ‘Part game, part novel’, ch? You
buy him a copy of The Warlock of Firetop Mountain.
Turn to 301.

43

43

You are in luck. A ticket for tonight's performance
has just been handed in. Itis not the best seat in the
house, but you eet a good view of the show. It is all
about a group of rats who live in a rubbish tip and
sing to each other for amusement. A rather peculiar
plot. you think, but vauare particularly taken by the
star, Lala Manche. In the last scene, as she is singiny,
the title song, the show is interrupted. At first you
thought this character in a serpent's costume was
part of the show. But when he picks her up in
mid-songand runs off the stage, you realize that she
has been kidnapped! You find a dark corner in the
back of the theatre and change costume. Will you
wait outside the theatre for the kidnapper to make
his escape (turn to 407), or follow him backstage
turn to 169)? You may remember your resolution
and decide against intervening. If you will simply
leave things be and go home, tum tv 79-
44-45

H

The dirty reception area confirms your suspicions.
This hardly looks like the offices ofa hi-tech exporter.
An elderly lady with her hair in a bun ratses an
eyebrow as you enter the office. Will you rush past
her to search the offices before she can stop you
(turn to 199), or will you see if she responds io a
secret password (turn to 110)?

45
You search around the cage for any signs of evi-

dence that might relate the lions to the attack on the
woman, You cannot find any. Eventually, you de-
cide to give up this line of inquiry. Turn to 148.

46-48

46

Only a single helicopter is inside the hangar. There
are no ground crew around at all. The helicopterisa
six-seater, perfect for a meeting. But you decide to
hide behind a stack of crates in one corner of the
hangar. In fact you are not expecting anything, to
happen for a couple of hours. What time of day are
you expecting the meeting to take place? Add this
time to today’s date and add the result to this
reference. If the resulting reference makes no sense,
turn to 220.

47
Turn to 34-

48
The Bolt hits the creature square in the chest! It _
staggers a little, then turns towards you and roars.
You try another, but the result is the same. Your Bolt
has done no damage at all! The Devastator is com-
posed of meteoric rock and cannot be harmed by
your Emergy Blast. it lunges at you with a great
clubbed fist and knocks you flying across the room,
Before you can recover, it has picked you up and
flung you through the window. Luckily, you are
still unconscious when you hit the ground, three
storeys down...
49-50

You continuc to try to reason with the man_ While at
first this seemed a hopeless exercise, you can tell
that you are beginning to get through to him. En-
couraged by the control-tower staff, you persist,
persuading him that the only way he could succeed
would mean his own death along with the lives of all
on board. Finally he agrees to give up his mad
scheme. He leaves the controls and unties the pilot,
who then guides the plane down tu safety. Turn
to 285,

50

You must now decide where you want to go. You
may find what you are looking for at the junction
with one of the streets. But which anc? Add
torether the strect and the avenue numbers end
turn to that reference. If the result makes no sense,

turn ty 368.
ae

cae

You call up ‘Susan’ and a young woman answers
the phone. She bursts into tears when you tell her
what is happening, and she agrees to come to the
airport straight away. An hour later she arrives.
Susan Blythe is young, attractive and distressed at
what is happening. She agrees to talk to ‘the Tor-
mentor over the radio. ‘Richard!’ she sobs.
‘Richard, it’s me, Susan!’ There is a pause before a
man’s voice answers: ‘Susan! What are you doing
there?’ ‘Oh, Richard,’ she answers. ‘Don’t do this!
These people have done nothing ta you! And I
know that the girl was a private nurse now ~ but
how was I to know at the ime?’ Gripping stuff, you
think. But at least she’s getting through to him. Ten
minutes later, she has talked him out of his original
plan. He agrees to land the plane safely, which he
does, amid great cheers from the contral-tower
staff. IF you have Super Strength, turn to 35. Other-
wise, turn te 285.

52
You must react quickly, You have no time to concen-
trate on using your power. Lurn to 436.
53
With three of his buddies lying flat on the floor, the
last Fire Warrior starts to get nervous. He shuts off
his flames and races for the escalator. Do you want
to pursue him through the store (turn to 13), or do
you want to make sure that the other three are
handed over to the authorities (turn to 380)?

54
An unmarked police car screeches to a halt by the
barrier and two detectives climb out. Meanwhile
you hunt through the bushes around the area. Tes!
your Luck. Lf you are Lucky, turn to 405. If you are
Unlucky, turn to gt.

55
You dive up into the air and zoom out over the

water. The woman was right. Some thirty metres
out from the beach, and advancing fast towards a
young boy who is still in the water, is the ominous
black fin of a ripper shark! You plunge down into
the sea to take on the monster. Tum to 294-

56-57

56

You circle the building for an hour, waiting for the
Serpent to appear with his victim. One of the daor-
men comes running up to you excitedly. ‘Round the
back,” he pants, ‘making off with Miss Manche!’
You quickly nip round to the back of the theatre. But
it is too late. The kidnapper has made good his
escape and there is no sign of him anywhere. You
have no choice but to leave the theatre and head
home. Turn to 79.

57
The assassin is about to take aim. You have one

chance to use Energy Blas! on him and, if you miss,
you will have to leap on him quickly. If you hit, turn
to goo. If you miss, or if you would rather not use
your Energy Blast, fight him hand to hand:

ASSASSIN SKILEG STAMINAS

If you win the hand-to-hand battle, turn to 258.
i
a

AAS < ;
i bes . P at $x .
— rerhe CSE
wy 3 >
the ey 1
Z ah \

58

58

You rush out into the drill square with the Colonel.
He is barking orders at people around him and,
through it all, a picture of what is happening
emerges. Twenty F.E.A-R. choppers are heading
towards the base, heavily armed. The soldiers are
taking their positions. When the helicopters come
into view you can see that this is a well-organized
raid and you make a guess as to who has organized
it. Amid heavy army fire, several of the choppers
land within the perimeter fence. Whena stocky man
with a tall forehead in a black costume steps from
the leading helicopter, your guessis confirmed. The
Macro Brain! A product of genetic experimentation,
like yourself, the Macro Brain has developed a
tremendous intelligence. But unlike yourself, he
has decided to use it to further the cause of evil. A
formidable combination, you think, On your awn
there is little you could do against his well-
disciplined private army. But if the Colonel's men
could keep them at bay and you had the opportun-
ity to face the Macro Brain on his own. . , As you
consider this, a wating comes from your
Crimewatch: ‘COUNCIL BUILDINGS. FAST." You
consider your options, If you wish to leave the army
to cope with this struggle and will see what disaster
is happening at the Council Buildings, turn to 154.
if instead you will try to get the Macro Brain on his
own, turn to 208.
59-60

You concentrate hard on the door mechanism,
trying to will the door te open. But your situation is
hopeless. The door is ten-centimetre solid metaland
your thought-waves cannot get through. Some time
later, more footsteps come down the corndor to-
wards you, A startled face appears at the window.
‘An intruder!’ cries the crewman. “Locked in the
ejection chamber!’ You can guess what they will do
next. A rumbling sound from the walls around you
is follawed by a loud hissing. Next thing you know
you are forcibly fired out of the submarine into the
sea. The shack is too much for you. You pass out,
never to regain consGousness. It dovsn’t take long
for your lungs to fill with water . . .

Just before you leave, you talk to one of the police
officers who lives near Starkers Beach. There are
Teports of the sighting of a giant shark just off the
beach and he would be grateful if you would investi-

gate it. He has two children who swim every
weekend and he is worried about their safety. You
tel] him you'll look into it. Lf you wish to go to the
beach straight away, tur to 72. If not, turn to ¢8-

61-63

61

The sight of the transformation shocks you, and the
Mummy advances. You are not sure how to tackle
the creature. Will you rushin to attack (turn ti) 184},
or tun back upstairs away from the creature (turn to

314)?

62
The scene is one of mayhem. Injured people lie on
the ground around the stand and others are panick-
ing, trying to get away from the dangerous
machine. If you have ETS, turn to 186. If you have
Super Strength, turn to 116. If you have Psi-Powers,
turn to 282. If you have Energy Blast, tum to 304.

63
You return home te change vour trousers and nurse
your leg. You may restore the lost stamina point.
Then you set off again for work. Turn to 341.
64-65

The man stutters nervously, “The gun. . . He hada
gun!’ You hold out the water-pistol that you found
in the kid's pocket and squirt him with it. His head
bows. What a dreadful coward! He wishes to make
amends. Yesterday two of his customers were talk-
ing and he overheard some information that may be
of help. They both worked at Titan abattoir and
reckoned that it had just been bought by a Sylvia
Frost. When the shopkeeper heard the name, it
stirred up a memory. He searched back through
some old papers and discovered that Sylvia Frost
was indeed the Ice Queen. This information may be
useful to you. Lf you come across evidence of the Ice
Queen’‘s handiwork, deduce 20 from the reference
you are on al the time and turn to this new refer-
ence. You thank the shopkeeper for his information
and you may add 1 tucx poimt for your good
fortune, Now turn to 438.

65
As your fist lands a mighty blow on its chest,
something rather unexpected happens. The crea-
ture disappears! Along with the bystanders watch-
ing the fight, you stare in disbelief. Turn to 138_

66-67

66

The doctor is not happy about being woken up and
he barks angrily at the maid as he comes down the
stairs in his dressing-gown. ‘T don’t care who it is,’
he snaps. ‘lam involved in very important work on
the “Star Wars” satellite. [must have my rest.“ You
apologize for disturbing him and tell him of your
fears that someone will be trying to steal his secrets.
"Nonsense" he snorts. “This house is wired up with
a sophisticated alarm system, No one could possibly
get inside without setting it off.’ You explain that
this may be no ordinary person and it would be wise
for him to check his study. Turn to 303.

You must start thinking about getting back to work.
Outside it is starting to rain- Just your luck! Head for
work by turning to 111, if you don’t know of any-
where else to go.
68-69

68
You search his shop. The place is littered with cheap
jewellery, cameras, electrical goods and tatty furs.
The back room is much the same. There seems to be
nothing here, You may eitherleave and try the diner
next door (harn to 354), or try something else (turn &
368).

69

The vial of phenolic acid breaks on the creature's
chest and steam rises. The Devastator roars as it sets
what is happening. The acid is eating away at its
tacky chest! Clumsily, it tries to swat the steam
away, buf you can tell by its staggering movements
that itis weakening. It falls to the ground beside the
broken window and bellows mightily. Summoning
up cnough strength to pick itself up, it rises to its
feet, sways and topples over sideways out of the
window down to the ground below! You step over
to the window. Three floors below it has shattered
inte fragments, The danger is over. Turn to 119-

70-71

70

if you are staying in tawn, you will already be
making your way towards F.E.A.R.’s secret meel-
ing-place, which lies along one of the avenues.
Which avenue are you heading for? Multiply its
number by toand turn to that reference. Ifthe result
makes no sense, turn to 368.

71

You leave the square to head for work. If only things
were that easy. The Radd Square crowd has now
focused its attention on yau, and those papers and
pencils are once more being thrustinto your face. A
weasel-faced man catches your eye: “Psssi! Hey,
you, Crusader! Over here.” He looks a little suspi-
cious and is holding a pencil and paper too. Willyou
go over and see what he has to say (tum to 126), or
will you do your public duty and sign autographs
for the crowd (turn tn 393}?

nannonc ole
udp yoo ocoe
u Ys +> bs
‘ vs NE a”

72

72

Everything seems to be normal when you arrive at
Starkers Beach. Hundreds of families are sunning
themselves and splashing about in the water. Barely
dressed girls are swaying in pairs along the walk-
way, tittering as they pass groups of muscle-bound
gigolos, who try to attract their attention. Suddenly
a single scream pierces the general hubbub. A
woman's voice yells, “SHARK! SHARK?’ The reac-
tion is immediate: the bathers panic and flee from
the water towards the beach in a human wave. Your
reaction is immediate too. What is your power:

ETS? Turn to 299
Energy Blast? ‘Turn to 180
Psi-Porver? Turn to 146
Super Strength? Turn to 55
73-75

73
You change back into your street dothes. Tum to
181.

74
Getting the Prankster down from his secretchamber
is no easy feat, but, with a carefully timed spring on
the trampolines below, you manage to get back to
the ground and can hand the villain over to police
outside the Fun House, You may add 3 Hero Points
for capturing the Prankster. Now turn to 103.

75
You remember that the President is coming to Titan

City taday. Do you want to go dawn to 7th Avenue
to watch the presidential cavalcade? Ifso, tum to21.
If you would rather not, you can ga to watch your
favourite football team, the Titan ligers, play the
Metro Mohawks instead (turn to 114).

76

=6

Your Aunt Morence is overjoyed to see you, bul
wonders why you are looking so untidy. She fusses
about, making you tea and offering you cream
cakes. You are exhausted by the dav’s activities and
are happy to let her fuss. You decide to spend the
night there, rather than face the long journey home.
Next morning is, thank goodness, a Saturday. No
work — ifindeed you still havea job left to go back to
at all! You leave your aunt's and you must now
decide where you will go. There is an exhibition of
‘Home Appliances of the Future’ at the Whirl’s
Court Exhibition Centre. You may go there by turn-
ing to 425. Or you may go to watch the presidential
cavalcade on 7th Avenue; the President is coming ta
Titan City (turn to 21). Alternatively, the Titan
Tigers are playing a friendly football game against
the Metro Mohawks. If you want to go and watch
this, turn to 114-

77-79

You are correct in your assumption. The freezing
pool was no freak accident or malfunction of the
heating equipment. lt was caused by the Ice Queen,
whose power of freezing touch has endangered the
swimmers. You may track her down by turning to
129, but firstyou had better retum tog7 to rescue the
two swimmers held by the frozen water.

You must fight the three of them, one at a time:

SKILL STAMINA

FOUR-ARMED BEAST 8 6
TIGER MAN 9 5
DR MACABRE - -

If you defeat them all, you may hand them over to
the police. Award yourself 3 Hero Points and turn
to 226,

79

After a good night's sleep, you set off for work
the next morning. To your great relief, your Crime-
watch does not sound at all and you actually
arrive before Jonah Whyte, whois astounded to find
you hard at work when he arrives. You may add 2
LUCK points, as the danger of losing your job has
now passed. At five o‘clock, you leave. Will you
change into the Silver Crusader and visit police
headquarters to find out why so litte has been
happening on the crime frontal] day (hirn to 245), or
will you pay a surprise visit on your aunt who lives
out in the suburbs (turn to 134)?

80-81

8a
You draw a Mental Confuser from your Accessory
Belt and try to turn it on. The mutant turns his
attention towards you and concentrates. Your de-
vice will not work! Knox smiles as you fumble with
the box and returns to concentrating on the reactor,
You will have to fight him hand to hand. Turn to 33.

Si

Dropping your hands to your sides in a motion of
apparent submission, you concentrate on the
Poisoner. His hand moves tw take the stopper olf the
vial of poison. He raises it up and starts to fipit. You
concentrate harder and the villain screams! You are
succeeding in forcing him to swallow his own
poison! He pleads with you for mercy and you agree
to will him to smash the vial only if he tells you what
he knows about F.E.A.R- “All nght!” he stammers.
‘Til tell you this. Vladimir Utoshski is arranging a
meeting soon. lam not invited. But I know this. The
location of the meeting is known by a man with a
cold watch” With a last strain of mental effort, you
will him to smash the vial on the floor. He does so
and you step over to capture him. Turn to 227.
§2-83

&2
You may take on the dogs one at a hme (take on as
many of the dogs as are in the crowd):

SKIL! STAMINA
First RADIATION DOG a 5
Second RADIATION DOG 6 5
Third RADIATION DOG y | 6
Fourth RADIATION DOG 7 7

The first time one of the dogs rolls a higher Attack
Strength than your own, turn to 31. But before you
do so, note this referertce as you will be instructed to
return lo it. lf you manage to defeat all the dogs,
turn t 193-

83

You check the book records. Most of the boxes are
listed as containing money, jewellery, old docu-
ments and computer data disks, and nearly all are
held by wealthy citizens or local businesses. Most
are in the main vault, which is now locked, but a
number are scattered around the floor outside the
vault door. One of these contains some recently
completed title deeds to Titan abattoir. They show
that the abattoir has just been bought by a ‘Sylvia
Frost’. This name rings a bell. Sylvia ‘Frost? Of
course! The Ice Queen! lf you find evidence of the
Ice Queen's activities, you can use this information
to locate her by deducting 20 from the reference you
are on at the time and turning to this new reference.
Now turn to 60.

B4

84

You rush out of the control tower and zoom up into
the sky towards the low-lying aircraft circling the
airport. You reach it easily and enter through the
emergency door release. The rush of air alerts the
passengers and they gasp as they see the Silver
Crusader enter, You close the door and motion far
everyone to remain calm. Luckily, the cockpit door
is closed and the Tormentor has not noticed your
entry. The way is clear for you to surprise the villain.
You swing open the cockpit door. Inside, the two
frightened pilots are tied against one wall. At the
controls is a shaggy-haired madman whose wide
grin turns to a look of astonishment as you appear.
You must spring on him quickly:

THE TORMENTOR SKILL& STAMINAY
if vou defeat him within ten combat rounds, turn to
346. If you do not, turn to 376.

—_

= ae GN

85

85
The sky clouds over as you enter the cemetery and,
by the ime you are halfway across, the atmosphere
is decidedly spooky. A scraping noise to your left
attracts your attention. The noise is coming from a
recently dug grave and you step over to get a closer
took. Your eyes widen as you see a movementin the
soil on the top of the grave. Something is trying to
ect out! A hand reaches out of the soil and you are
frozen to the spot as a huge shape lifts itself out of

the ces You recopnize t the creature: you have come
scross him once before. The webbed claws of the
ore epeeaiee beast flex as it steps towards you. The
=

Reincamaliont The beast that cannot be killed! W hy
on earth has he been buried in an ordinary rave?
Probably some idiot official didn't believe the stor-
ies. But one thing ts certain. The Reincarnation must
not be allowed to stalk Titan City again on its
mission of destruction. IFyou have ETS, turn te 332.
If you have Psi-Powers, turn lo 422. If you have
Energy Blast, furn to 352- If you have Super Strenyti,
turn to 373-
86

86

The train stops at Grimm Street station and you get
off to go ta work. You try to settle into your desk
discreetly. No such luck. ‘Lafayette, Get in here a!
once!’ No sooner had you stepped through the office
doar than Jonah Whyte’s booming voice summoned
you. You creep into his office, mumbling scanty
excuses for being late yet again. ‘Enough!" he yells.
‘What do you think we are nmmning here? A chanity?
Do you suppose I should be grateful that you even
grace us with your presence? Very noble of you
indeed to even bother coming in at all! Well, I tell
you what. I'm feeling kind today. You can have the
rest of the day off. Without pay! And if you're not in
first thing tomorrow morning, you can start looking
for another job!’ You slink out of his office with your
tail between your legs. How can you tell him what
you've been doing? And now you've been sus-
pended for a day. Where will you go? Will you
spend the day at Wisneyland, the amusement park
(turn to 15}, or will you go downtown, perhaps todo
some shopping (furn to 202)?

2

87

You streak out after the plane. Asitis taking off, you
catch up with it and force your way inside through
one of the emergency entrance doors. Inside, the
meeting has already begun in a special conference
room which has been built into the plane. But your
entrance has not gone unnoticed. As you step in-
side, the six delegates rise to their feet. All are
overawed by your entry — all except one. ‘Stand
back,” growls a deep, electrassisted voice. “Our
puny visitor is no match for the Titanium Cyborg.’
The others watch as the huge, bald-headed shape
steps forward. Part man, part robot, the creature
has powerful electro-assisted arms, and a pulsing
glow lights up in the goggles it uses foreyes. Do you
have a Circuit Jammer? If sa, turn to 411- If not, you
will have to fight the leader of F.E.A.R.:

THE TITANIUM

CYBORG SKILL 18 STAMINA 20

After the third round of combat, turn to 136.
88-89
88

A notorious group of super-villains known as the
Alchemists is planning a series of raids on financial
institutions. ‘Ihe first victim will be the Cleveland
Bank, at 4a.m. Next will be another branch of the
same bank situated on the corner of 128th Streetand
toth Avenue.

=
~<a a eel = S$ ——

You run down the hallway, looking for a fire-
extinguisher. There is not one to be seen. Finally
you find one in an empty room and bring it back into
the lab. You break the seal and point it at the boiling
bottle. Nothing happens! You check the instruc
tions and realize that the extinguisher has not been
serviced for two years! You try the next floor down
and return with a functioning extinguisher. But as
you arrive back in the lab, a wide smile has spread
acrass Professor Murdock's face. ‘Look’ he beams.
‘The temperature is dropping! The danger is over.”
The bottle has stopped its furious bubbling and
seems Lo be cooling down. Relieved that the danger
is past, you leave the building and head for home.
Turn to 28,

go

go
The trampolines are along one wall of the Fun

House, They appear to be sturdily constnucted;
there is nothing special about them. You try boun-
cing on one and find that you can reach quite a
height. While bouncing, though, vou notice some-
thing suspicious. Higher up in the wall is a doar-
way, almost impossible to notice from the ground,
a5 it is carefully blended into the wall, You bounce
higher and find that you can reach a ledge if you
bounce a little higher. Grabbing on to bars by the
side of the doorway, you open the door and leap
inside. Your hunch was correct. Standing at a con-
trol panel inside the room is a figure dressed ina red
jester’s outfit - the Scarlet Prankster, svanted for
robbery and assault. You must apprehend this
criminal:

SCARLET PRANKSTER skILLG
if you defeat him. turn to 74.

STAMINAS
91
You find nothing in the bushes. You may as well
leave this affair in the hands of the police. Tur

to 73-

92

Keeping a careful eye on the advancing lions, you
reach in your Accessory Belt for your Arama Emula-
tor. You turn the controls to imitate the smell of
catnip. The device hums and the lions stop in their
tracks. They are anxious to get at the catnip. You
fling your device to the back of the cage and the lions
forget about you. Nor will they obey their keeper's
instructions. The Ringmaster is appalled at how
easily you have seen off the beasts and gives himself
up to you. You take him back into the small room
and go through his papers. One scrap of paper
catches your attention — a message, written under
the F,E.A.R. seal! The note reads: ‘The password is
Quicksilver. Memorize and destroy this message.’
Now turn to 433-

93-94

93

You take the murderer to police headquarters. On
the way he pleads with vou not to turn him in. He
even gives you some useful information. Apparent-
ly the Serpent has been spurned by his actress
girlfriend, Lola Manche. She is famous for her
quote: T don’t want to be a star; I just want to be an
ordinary girl! She always takes the poorest of dres-
sing-rooms and has decided to give up her life of
decadence as the Serpent's girl. He has swom that,
by hook or by crook, she will return ty him.

Of course, you will not give way to deals with
cnminals. But you may add 1 LUCK point for this
information. You hand Bronski over to a surprised
sergeant at the desk and leave. You may add 1 Hero
Point for your arrest, Turn to 67.

CY
You need to do some shopping and you head for
Schuter Mall, a couple of kilometres out of town, It
is a huge site sith hundreds of different shops. Do
you want to go into the drug store (turn to 313), the
supermarket (turn to 160} or the computer shop
(farn to 264)?
95

95
As you recoil from the wound, the shark frees itself

{rom your grip and swims for the boy. It snaps its
jaws around the youngster, whose cries turn to
gurglings then to silence as a red cloud spreads
through the water. You, and the onlookers on the
beach, are horrified! The npper shark flips its tail in
the water, and disappears out to sea. You swim back
to the shore and step out on to the beach with your
head bowed. The crowds are silent, except for the
sobs of the forlorn mother, The authorities can take
over now, You quietly enter a cubicle and change
clothes. When no one is watching, you leave the
beach and head for home. Turn to 28.

96-98

The enormous ship will take many hours to search
properly. Nevertheless you must slart somewhere,
Will you start downstairs in the engine room (turn
to 27), or head for the captain’s quarters (turn to

164)?

97

You arrive at Stanley Pool and the doorman rushes
you into the main hall where the pool is. Your jaw
drops as you see the problem. The pool has frozen!
Shivering swimmers are staring incredulously atthe
block of ice that, moments before, they were swim-
ming in! Two girls, however, were not able to swim
to the side in time and they are held fast in theice, in
danger of freezing to death. Their cries are getting
weaker. You had better use your powers to help
them quickly, Ifyou have Psi-Powers, turn to 389. lf
you have Energy Blast, turn to 307- lf you have Super
Strength, turn to 338. lf you have ETS, turn to 231-

As you leave the bank, you hear a bleeping coming
from your wrist. Your Crimewatch is receiving a
message from Gerry the Grass. The electronic voice
speaks two words: "PARKER AtRPORT~’ If you want
to head straight away to the airport, turn to q1o. IF,
on the other hand, you have still not yet finished
with the Alchemists, you may be heading some
where else. If this is the case, deduct the avenue
number from the street number and turn to this
reference.
99

the tension is building as you shove your way into
the centre of the crowd. The man and woman are
screaming at each other, with the man threatening
to strangle her dog if she does not clear up its mess.
In the crowd the arguments are echoed, ‘What
would you think if J did that on your front door-
step?’ yells a sweaty, bespectacled man. ‘What do
you expect the poor dog to do? The City Council
should keep our sidewalks clean!’ says a young
student-type with his nose in the air. ‘T hese days a
dog’s not safe on the road, evenin the gutter!’ pipes
up another voice, and ‘It's that fat frump who
should be strangled, not the dog! cries another. In
the centre of the crowd, you find that you are not
alone in trying to settle the tempers. Three others
are trying to defuse the situation, withoul too much
success. A jostling starts and you are kneed painfully
in the thigh. You fall to the floor holding your leg.
Asif in response to your plight, the welcome sound
of police whistles subdues the tempers and three
black-shirted officers disperse the crowd. One of
them picks you up from the ground and asks about
your leg. Itis painful, butnot broken. Perhaps worst
of all, though, was your unfortunate fall. For you
have fallen straight into the cause of the whale
commotion! Lose 1 STAMINA point for your bruised
leg. Do you now want to go home and change (turn
to 63). or will vou talk to the police officers (lurn to

305)?
100-101

100

Manny’s Coffee Shop has never been so busy. The
excitement surrounding the President's arrival has
brought all sorts of people to the streets. You sit
down at a table next to a man wearing a shabby
brown overcoat and the two of you are soon talking.
The man is very drunk and says more than he
should, It seems he has connections with the under-
world and lets slip some information. Apparently
the Ocean Behemoth has been seen in Titan harbour
and the man knows the purpose of the huge fish-
creature’s visit. It seeks revenge on the one who
defeated it a year ago. That person was none other
than yourself! You remember the encounter well. It
is a huge water-spawned creature which cannot be
allowed tu enter Titan Gty- You make a mental note
to explore the harbour as soon as you can. Now tum

to 157.

101

There is nothing around, except a garbage can by
the back door. You pick up the lid and hold it in
front of you as you step up to the door. Turn to 24-

102-103

102

As vou arrive downstairs, the police are forcing the
crowd back away from the wreckage, To your hor-
ror, you can see the driver of the car and his passen-
ger in the back seat, struggling with the doors. The
fire is spreading and they cannot get oul! Will you
step round the corner and change into the Silver
Crusader (turn to 23}, or will you wait lo see
whether the police have the situation under contral
(turn to 229)?

103

Where are you heading as you leave Wisneyland?
Will you make your way downtown to do some
shopping (turn to 202), or go home. If you decide tu
go home, you may either want to rest for the even-
ing, in which case you may gain 6 STAMINA paints
(turn to 327), or you may wish to sacrifice STAMINA
gain and spend the evening at the theatre if you can
get a ticket for tonight's performance of ‘Rats’ (Lun

to 43).
104—106

104
You step, as the Silver Crusader, towards the scene.
A police officer spots you and helps you through the
crowd, which parts as you are recognized. On the
eround in the centre of the crowd is the body of a
man — a man of some means, by the looks of his
expensive. clothing. Lying next to him is a gold-
trimmed briefcase, While the police busy them-
selves with moving the crowd on, you may choose
to examine cither the bady (turn to 318}, the brief-
case (turn to 211) or the surrounding bushes (turn

to 54)-

705
You concentrate hard from outside the doorand will
the dows into submission. Their frantic barking dies
down as your power reaches them, When all seems
ty be calm, you open the door and step inside. Test
your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 4o1- lf you are
Unlucky, turn to 213.

106

You chase the pickpocket and seem to be gaining @
little. The doors of the train start to close as it
prepares to pull out of the station. The pickpocket
seizes his chance and leaps through the closing
doors in the nick of time. He has evaded you!
Without revealing yourself as the Silver Crusader,
there is nothing you can do. Tur to 86.

107-109

107
The matter of the F-E.A.R. meeting is playing on
your mind. Perhaps it would be useful to talk to
Colonel Saunders who commands the army base
aut of town. The Colonel may have some news on
the meeting; or at least you could compare notes.
Will you go to the army base (turn to 342), or will you
follow up the earlier summons by your Crimesvatch
ta Stanley Pool (turn to 97}?

108

There is a new menace in town, as Daddy Rich's
lawyers have just got him offa murder charge. [eis
an eccentric millionaire who has everything money
could buy. He now gets his kicks by murdering
innocent victims and revels in their fear. He has
very expensive tastes and lives in a penthouse
apartment at 113, 58th Street.

109

For all your strength, you wwill not be able to defeat
the Mummy. Instead, when you have reduced it to 4
STAMINA points, you may use your strength to hurl
it into an open crate and seal the lid. You may
capture it, but not kill it. Resolve your battle:

MUMMY

if you manage to trap the creature, tur to 2.

SKILL 10 STAMINA IO
110-111

110

You lean towards her meaningfully and whisper
your password. ‘Eh?’ she asks, puzzled. ‘What did
you say? Speak up!’ You try again. This time she
looks at you as if you were some sort of crank. Her
eyes pass up and down you and she frowns. “Are
you a crazy? Be off with you, or I'll call the police!’
You decide that she probably will call the police and
decide to take a quick look round the place first.
Turn Lo 199-

111

You change back into street clothes and get a move
on. You are late for work again! You turn the comer
on to Clark Street and stop as you pass Harrold’s
Department Store. A thought has crossed your
mind: you could stop and buy your bossa present of
same kind to apologize for being late. But then this
would make you even later. 1s it worth it? if you
wish to go in and look for a suitable gift, turn to 429-
If you want to get to work as quickly as possible,
turn to 301-

112-113

4412

The police and bank officials tail silent as you step
through the door of the bank. Do you wish §
interrogate the Branch Manager of the bank (turn to
420), the Chief Detective investigating the case (hrm
to 323) or the security guard (turn to 259)?

133

On the way home, you notice a figure following
you. Intrigued, you allow him to follow until you
reach a comer, then you step quickly into a doorway
and wait. Sure enough, the man appears, turns the
corner and stops, scratching his head. You spring
out and grab him. You demand to know why he is
following you. He is quivering with fear anc tells
you that his boss, Fats Bhuebottle, a well-known
underworld figure, sent him ta report on your
movements. In his fear he also tells you some useful
information. Apparently, one of Vladimir Utosh-
ski’s agents of F.E-A-R. will be at the forthcoming
‘Home Appliances of the Future’ exhibition. You
may add 1 LucK point for this information, You
release the man, telling him to let Fats know that jou
will be watching him from now on, and the tern fied
spy scampers off away from you- Thinking about
what he has told you, you head home, where you
relax for the evening in front of the TY. Add 6
STAMINA points for the rest and turn ty 215.
114

114

You arrive at the stadium and buy your ticket for the
game. It promises to be an exciting game, as both
teams are evenly matched. You are hoping that the
Tigers will have the edge: they recently spent over a
milion on fullback ‘Streak’ Gordon and you are
anxious to see how he turns out, But neither side is
able to maintain the advantage and by half-time a
last-minute push by the Mohawks has levelled the
score. The second half starts with a fabulous scoring
run by ‘Streak’ Gordon. But, amid the excitement,
screams of terrorare coming from the crowd. Part of
the stand is collapsing! You rush off ta change and
then nip underneath the stand to find out what is
happening. You are amazed by what you see.

The collapse is not a structural fault. as you thought.
Standing between two iron girders is a huge, hulk-
ing creature with brown, scaly skin, which is shak-
ing the girders and groaning with the effort. You
order it to stop. It sees your shimmering uniform
and roars loudly: PUNY FIUMANI!’ it speaks.
‘WHAT CAN YOUR PITIFUL EFFORTS
HOPE TO ACHIEVE AGAINST THE CREA-
TURE OF CARNAGE? MANY MUST DIE BE-
FORE 1 WILL BE STILL.’ Again the creature
shakes the stand and this time a crack appears in the
metre-thick concrete above. You had better react
quickly. If you have Super Sfrengih, turn to 315. IF
you have Psi-Powers, tum to 384. If you have Energy
Blast, turn to 22. If you have ETS, turn to 163.
[ee eee ee

115-116

115

You find a pair of overalls and mix with the cargo
crew unloading the three aircraft inside the hangar-
There is nothing suspicious about the crew or the
cargo, but you expected this. In fact you are not
expecting anything to happen for a couple of hours.
What time of day are you expecting the meeting to
take place? Add this time to today’s date and add
the result to this reference. If the resulting reference
makes no sense, turn to 220.

116

You fly into the air over the Android, grab it and
hoist it up out of harm’s way into the roof of the
building. Finding a clear spot, you release it. It
crashes dawn to the ground and fizzles, its broken
limbs twitching harmlessly. You search for Vladimir
Utoshski from your vantage point, but can see no
sign of him and return to the stand. No one is now
manning the stand, and you start rummaging
throush Utoshski’s papers to see if you can find any
clues, Only one piece of paper looks interesting; itis
from the Parker Airport Authority, advising him
that his booking requirements have been made. You
also find a small pen-like gadget in a box labelled
‘Circuit Jammer - You decide it could be quite useful
and take it with you. Add 4 Hero Points for defeat-
ing the Android. Your job done here, you leave
Whirl’s Court. Turn to 75.

117-118

117

The dressing-room shows obvious signs of a strug-
gle having taken place recently, Theatrical clothes,
ripped and soiled, lie strewn about the place among
smashed bottles of theatrical make-up, Evidently
the kidnapper and his victim had something of a
fight here. But where are they now? The open
window gives the game away. It leads out into the
parking-lat behind the thealre and, as you poke
your head out to look for the Serpent, you hear the
sound of squealing tyres. The Serpent has escaped
with his victim! You will never catch him now. You
change back inte your street clothes and make for
home. Turn to 79.

118
Your information was correct. As you arrive at the
junction, sounds of a commotion are coming from
the bank. There are no signs of police. You look
through the glass door. Two men in white lab coats
are rummaging through the cashiers’ drawers and
stuffing notes in sacks. Another is grasping a test-
tube rack containing five tubes of liquid and is
holding another in the air ready to throw it at the
cashiers and customers, who are huddled in a cor-
ner. All three are wearing rubber masks which make
them look like ageing professors. The Alchemuisis! No
doubt the test-tubes contain some of their dastardly
creations. Will you burst through the door and leap
on the one with the chemicals (turn to 437), or will
you wait to nab them as they leave the bank (turn

ta 309)?
119-120

119
You are greeted by heroic applause from the crowd
as you step from the library. The struggle has been a
tough one, but you have defeated the strange crea-
ture. You may award yourself 5 Hero Points for the
victory. Then turn to 319.

120
Fight however many dogs are left, one at a time:

SKILL STAMINA
First RADIATION DOG

7 5
Second RADIATION DOG 6 5
Third RADIATION DOG 7 6
Fourth RADIATION DOG 7 7

Fach fime you are successfully attacked by a Radia-
lion Dog, roll one die. If the result is a:

1,20r3 The dog cuts vou with its daw. Lose 2
STAMINA points,

40r5 The dog knocks you back int» the wall.
Lose 2 STAMINA points and deduct z
from your Attack Strength next round.

6 The dog bites you. Test your Luck. If you
are Lucky, you suffer 3 STAMINA points
of damage, but survive. If you are Un-
lucky, the wound is fatal.

If you defeat the dogs, turn to 350.

121-122

121
Following the advice you were given, you change
mito the Silver Crusader and climb the fire-escape on
to the roof ofthe Regent Hotel. You arrive just as the
President's car is about to pass in the street below,
Sure enough, in the far corner, a man is squatting.
He is leaning over the edge of the roof and adjusting
the telescopic sight of a high-powered rifle! If you
have Super Sfrengti:, turn to 236. If vou have Energy
Blast, turn to 57- Tf you have Ps1- Powers, turn to 177.

If you have ETS, turn to 194.

122

Crowds of disappointed fans are milling around

Addison tre Gardens. Tonight's concert has
been cancelled: Georgie Boy is suffering from facial
dermatitis. You decide instead to go home and rest.
You may add 6 STAMINA points for the evening’s
rest. Next moming you do not have to go to work.
Will you go instead to 7th Avenue to watch the
arrival of the President, who is payinga visit to Titan
City (turn to 21), or would you rather go to Whirl’s
Court, where a special exhibition of “Home Ap-
pliances of the Future’ is opening (turn to 425)?
123-124

123

Adirect hit! Your blast strikes the ripper shark in the
middle of its back, causing a grucsome explosion.
Bits of shark meat and entrails fly high up in the air
and rain down on the beach. The onlookers are
revolted. Many of them are spattered with the crea-
ture’s remains. Disgusted faces turn towards you-
‘Trust that Crusader idiot to create such a mess.
Ugh! It’s nauseating! What was wrong with diving
in and fighting the poor shark? Dumb animal — it
didn’t know any better. - .’ Yourjaw drops. What's
wrong with these people? You've just saved a boy
from almost certain death! With your head bowed,
you leave the beach to change into your street
clothes and head for home, Turn to 48.

124

You hand the Tiger Cat in at police headquarters.
You may add 2 Hero Points for this arrest. The
police sergeant at the desk is puzzling over a piece of
paper which has been handed in by a little old lady
She thinks it might be important. He lets you havea
look atit, thinking it mightbe a clue. It reads: “Watch
for the sign of the Mantrapper — a metal slug witha
letter Mengraved onil.‘ Thisisa useful due and you
may add 1 LucK point for seeing it. If you find
evidence of the Mantrapper’s activities, add 60 to
the reference you are on at the time and turn to this
new reference. Turn now to 67.

225

£25
| You leave the Murdock Laboratories and head back
into town. Walking along Danvers Street, you see a
crowd huddled round a shop window and you step
up to see what is going on. It is an electrical shop
and the people are staring at a television in the
centre of the window. A newsflash message is being
reported by the announcer, You cannot hear whatis
being said, but you recognize the face on the photo-
graph which appears briefly on the screen. It is
Giorgio Schultz, better known as the Poisoner.
What, you wohfder, is he up to? Perhaps you'd
better go down to police headquarters and find out.
You turn to leave, and groan as a beep — beep: — beep)
sounds on your wrist. Just what you needed! You
lift it to your ear and listen to its message: “STANLEY
SWIMMING POOL.” Where will you go now? To
police headquarters (turn to 412), or to the Stanley

Swimming Pool (furn to 97)?

—A5o

126

126

The man draws you down an alley. “Crusader,
baby. Ti! Look, my name's Rat-face Flanagan. ain't
got much time to talk. Gotta get going. Here, read
this, See ya . - . You take the note he thrusts into
your hand and read the message: “There will be an
assassination attempt! on the President during his
visit to ‘Titan City, A decoy will be planted in the
crowd. The real killer will be on the roof of the
Regent Hotel.’ This is an important lead and you
may add 1 tuck point for finding it. When the
President is due to arrive, add 100 to the reference
you are on at the time and tum to this new reference
to apprehend the killer. Looks as though Rat-face ts
tryinys t get even with someone. Now you had
better be on your way to work. Turn to 435.

127-128

227

The Scarlet Prankster, a fun-loving criminal who
delights in playing practical jokes on his unsuspect-
mg victims, has found a new home and one most
befitting his sense of humour. When you are in the
vicinity of his new residence and are given the
opportunity to look for him, subtract 50 from the
reference you are on at the time and tum to this new
reference to find him.

128
The gang has not noticed and you manage to shao
the bov and his mother away. H you have Super
Strength, turn to 172- IF you have ETS, tum to 210. If
you have Energy Blast, you may not use it as there
are {oo many passers-by. If you do not have Siper
Strength or ETS, turn to 243.
129

129

You follow your clue’s instructions to a seedy in-
dustrial area of town and arrive at the Titan abattoir.
What sort ofa placeis that for a super-villain like the
ice Queen? The answer dawns on you as you pass a
door leading to the refrigeration plant. Cautiously
you open the door and step into the freezer room.
Your breath freezes and you feel the cold at the back
of your throat as you search through the sides of
Seef hanging in the room. A sound from behind you
startles you. ‘So!’ speaks a woman's voice. The
Silver Crusader has come to pay a visit! I hardly
think you have come to stock up your freezer. ] am
honoured. Accept this as a gift!’ You wheel round to
see the sleck silver costume of the Ice Queen. Her.
tong platinum-blonde hair partly covers her face as
she shoves a side of beef towards you along a
runner. If you have Super Strength, turn to 436. If
you have ETS, turn to 182. If you have Psi-Powers,
turn to 52. If you have Energy Blast, turn to 12.
130-131

130

His ears prick up as you whisper the word. You
repeat it. He motions you to follow him and leads
you into a steamy room at the back of the laundry.
Undemeath the sink is a trapdoor. He opens it for
you and you climb down into a small space under
the building. A single door leads from the chamber
you stand in. Voices are coming from the door and
a shaft of light runs across the bottom edge. Turn

to 298.

131

As the police arrive to help you with the bulky
creature, a remarkable transformation takes place.
The Creature of Carnage shimmers and shrinks
slowly in size. Moments later it lies on the ground
not as a creature at all, but as a man whose face you
recognize. The Creature of Carnage is none other
than Lllva Karpov, agent of F.E-A.R.! You may add
5 Hero Points for this important capture; then turn

to 40.

132—133

132

The number you rolled is the number of Radiation
Dogs that have escaped through the door and are
now tushing into the screaming crowd, jaws wide
open and frothing. You slam the door shut. Your
immediate duty is to prevent anyone from being
bitten! Your super power will be of no help here.
Turn to 82 to fight the dogs. Fight only as many as
escaped. If fewer than four escaped, return to 120
(note this reference), if you defeat them, to face the
dogs left inside the Lab.

433

You jump over the counter and change quickly into
the Silver Crusader. You will have to be careful not
to stay too close to the Fire Warriors, as their flames
will burn you. Perhaps just your presence will be
enough to frighten them away. You spring out and
order them to stop their foolishness and leave the
store. They merely laugh at you- That didn’t work,
here is only one thing left for it. You will have to
fight them:

SKILL STAMINA

First FIRE WARRIOR - b
Second FIRE WARRIOR 6 6
Third FIRE WARRIOR 5 5
Fourth FIRE WARRIOR > =

Fight them one ata time. Each time you are hit, roll
one die. A roll of 1 or 2 indicates that you have been
burned and must deduct an extra STAMINA point. If

you defeat them all, turn to 380.
134-135

134
Your aunt lives in Cockney Green, a pleasant sub-
urban district to the east of the Titan Centre. The bus
drops you off at Cockney Cemetery, leaving you
with a five-minute walk to her house. Will you take
a leisurely stroll around the outside of the cemetery
(turn to 219), or will you take a short cut through it
(turn to 85)?

135
Tsvo doormen are outside the curator’s room. ‘Ah,

Abdul Aziz and Mustapha Kareem. Would one of
you take our honoured guest on a tour of the
exhibits?” They both stand to attention. “Abdul,
perhaps you would be so kind?’ The man bows
slihtly and begins to escort you round the
museum. There are many fine treasures in the
building and Abdul Aziz gives you an interesting
commentary on the life and times of the Pharaohs.
The exhibits seem to be all intact. Finally you reach
the largest room, which houses the exhibition’s
main attraction. Turn to 240.

136

Bolts of light flash from its eyes and hit you square in
the chest. The impact knocks you back against the
wall. The Cyborp follows up with a deadly smash
from its titanium-tipped fist, Your efforis are use-
less. The Cyborg is much tov strong for you. Your
last memory is its steely fingers tightening around
your neck -

137

Grasping the door by its frame, you heave it off its
hinges. You grab both passengers and lift them
away to safety. [he man in the back, a middle-aged
man in a fur-collared overcoat wearing an expen-
sive-looking silver watch, is suffering from shock.
He is delirious. As you lift him out of the car, he is
mumbling incoherent bits of sentences: ’Fear sum-
mit . . . Must make meeting - . - Opposite number
35. . -Musin‘tforget .. .” Youhand him over to the
ambulance-men to take care of him. And just in
time, as the fire hits the tank and the car explodes.
Your duty done, you may now nip off to change
clothes and return to work. For your brave rescue,
you may add 2 Hero Points. Tum to 398.
138

An ald man is attending to the girl in the water and
another has gone to phone an ambulance. ‘What is
happening to the world?’ he asks. ‘Where does 2
creature like that come from? T have never seen
anything like it before, except in my svorst dreams.
Its this new-fangled technology, I think. Creates
super weapons in space and monsters on the earth.
Bah! Sometimes I’m glad my time will soon be up.
But Crusader, thank you for saving us. We all owe
vou our lives.” You can add 2 Hero Points for
defeating the beast. You still don’t know where it
has come from, unless the ald man has given you 2
clue, If you wish to try an address, add the street
number to this reference to get there. Otherwise
tim to 71.

139

139
Daddy Rich pulls out a long-bladed silver knife and
his two thugs dolikewise. Fight his hvo bodyguards
one ata time:

First BODYGUARD
Second BODYGUARD

lf you defeat them, you may take on Daddy Rich
himself:
DADDY RICH

if you capture all three, you may turn them over to
the authorities and award yourself 3 Hero Points.
Then turn to 73-

SKILLS
SKILL7

STAMINA Q
STAMINAS

SKILL STAMINAS

1g0—141

140

Knox lies unconscious on the ground and your
attention turns to the reactor. Hissings are coming
from the cooling pipes and one of them suddenly
bursts, sending jets of superheated steam into a
crowd of engineers. Eventually, they get the leak
under control, but the accident has cost the lives of
four. You may add no Here Points for this episode.
However, the scientists are grateful to you for pre-
venting what could have been a dreadful disaster.
In appreciation of your saving the laboratory, the
scientists bring you a small pen-like device. “Cru-
sader, take this asa gift from us,’ pleads the Institute
Director. ‘One of our men made this in his spare
time. He calls it a “Circuit Jammer’. It is still to be
fully tested, but seems to work okay. | know you
often face mechanical villains and their contrap-
tions. With this, you will be able to disable their
circuits. You are looking for Vladimir Utoshski and
he is a powerful adversary. With this you will stand
a better chance.” You thank the Director for his gift.
It may well come in handy. Turn to 125.

141
If this name means anything to you, you will have a
seven-digit telephone number. Add all the seven
digits tagether and turn to this reference.

142-143

1

You order Dr Macabre to give himself up. Ele is
startled to see you and, as you aim your Energy Blast
at his misshapen henchmen, he cries oul: “NO! You
cannot harm my creations!’ He flings a bottle at you
and it smashes against the wall. You aim a low-
powered Bolt at the four-armed creature, who
howls in pain as the Bolt strikes. Dr Macabre shrieks
and holds his head in his hands. He gives himself
up to you withouta struggle. As you escart him and
his miserable gang from the shop, you notice him
quictly drop a small ball of paper on the floor. You
pick it up and read it. Your eyes widen when you
notice it is on F.E.A.R. notepaper. The message
reads: “Meeting changed to Clancey Bay.’ After
handing the mad doctor over to the police, you
leave the Mall. Award yourself 3 Hera Points and
turn to 226.

143
Where do you want to begin your investigations?
The Fun House's main attractions are buzzing with
people, although most are now staring at you with
open eyes. Will you check the ‘Rotating Room’ (turn
to 439), the trampolines (turn to go) or the ‘Hall of
* Mirrors’ (turn to 212)?
144

144
You change into the Silver Crusader and head for
the Biochemistry Department. There are no signs of
panic; everything seems just like any other day. You
make inquiries and find that a Professor Murdantk is
working on aldehyde experiments on the top floor.
When you reach his Laboratory, the Professor is
sweating profusely. ‘Crusader’ he says, relieved to
see you. ‘My experiment has got out of hand! The
temperature is building up! I fear! may have caused
a disaster’ In the corner of the Lab, a complicated
array of chemical equipment is shuddering. At one
end a bottle is boiling madly. If you have ETS, turn
to 295. Otherwise turn tu 339-
145-146

145

How sill you escape? You search m your Accessory
Belt for something to use, You pull out your Laser
torch and begin to cut away at the door. The con-
fined space makes you sweat, but your gadget
seems to be doing its work. The metal on the door is
ten centimetres thick and it will take some time
before you can cut through. In fact it takes four
hours... When you finally free yourself, you pre-
pare yourself for action. Searching round the sub,
which now seems to be deserted, you find signs of
the meeting you were anticipating in a conference
room, but no one is left. Despairingly, you leave the
submarine and the dockyard. Turn to 368.

146
You race down to the edge of the water and scan the
surface. Your powers attract you towards one spot,
which you search hard. Slicing through the suriace,
and advancing at an alarming rate towards a young
boy sho is still in the water, you can see the tall
black fin of a ripper shark! You react quickly and
concentrate all your energy on the water in front of
the shark. The fin slows down. You are making the
water more dense, so that the shark cannot swim as
quickly. But there is one problem. The wateraround
the boy is also affected and is preventing him from
reaching the beach! You race over to the spot and
dive into the water to take on the shark. Tum ta 294.

147-148

147

As you enter the pawnbroker’s, the man behind the
counter gasps. Before he can scream your name,
you reach for him and clap your hand over his
mouth to silence him. His fat face is sweating pro-
fusely and, as you grab him, he passes out. Some-
thing is certainly troubling the man! If you have
Super Strength, turn to 68. If you have {’si-Powers,
cum to 188. If you have another power, turn to 14.

148

You change back into your street clothes and set off.
A beep ~ beep — beep sounds comes from your wrist.
As you hold your Crimewatch up, it speaks to you:
“MUSEUM OF EGYPTIAN HERITAGE.’ Do you want
to follow its advice and head for the Egyptian
Museum downtown (turn to 158)? Alternatively,
you are now not far from the home of Gerry the
Grass. Would you prefer to pay him a call? If so, turn

10 38.
149-150

149
As you appear, a hushed silence spreads across the

crowd. Your contemptuous look has its desired
effect. They look at each other sheepishly and
shuffle off along the sidewalk, going about their
business. With the situation now well defused, you
step up to the dog’s mistress and reprimand her for
allowing her dog to foul the footpath. Your duties as
acitizen performed, you can now resume your alter
ego and cither set off again for work (tum to 342), oF
go and buy a newspaper (turn to 228).

150

You aim carefully and send your Bolt towards the
vial of poison. It scores a direct hit! The Poisoner
screams and drops the vial. You may now capture
the injured villain easily. Turn to 227-

151-152

aor
You race down the street after the van. Butby now it
is long gone. Unless you have Super Strength, you
are wasting your time. Turn to 428. Ifyou have Super
Strength, turn to 414.

152

A curious rumour is circulating through the more
pleasant parts of the downtown area. ltis rumoured
that a young boy, known as the Brain Child, has
extremely vivid dreams. In certain instances, these
dreams seem to have come true. These are only
rumours, but the identity of the child is known. He
is Timothy Grant and lives on tooth Street.

153-154

153
There is nothing you can da but watch the brown
cloud float into the distance. The damage has been
done. The Smoke, who has the ability to change into
an ethereal form, has been through the doctor's
notes and sent radio photographs to the head:
quarters of F.B.A.R. Turn now to 162.

—
ee ;

2h

154

You speed off back to Titan City and arrive at the
Council Buildings. Everyone seems surprised at
your visit. The day has been a peaceful one. Being
holiday, there are few people about. There certainly
seems to be no danger. Your Crimewatch beeps
again: ‘SORRY. FALSE ALARM. Just what you
needed! Turn to 371-

155-156

155
The noise from outside has made the Alchemists
nervous. They tie up their sacks and race into the
street to escape. Turn to 243.

156

You jump over the counter and, while no one is
looking, change into the Silver Crusader. You are
well prepared for outbreaks of fire and you take the
Micro Extinguisher from your Accessory Belt. Step-
ping up to the villains, you douse them with a blast
of carbon dioxide and extinguish their flames.
Coughing and spluttering, they give themselves up
to you. Turn Lo 380.
157

157

While you are trying to pry more information out of
the man, you forget about the time. Suddenly the
noise from the crowd outside swells up. The Presi-
dent is arriving! You leave the table and push your
way out into the street. But before you can catch a
zlimpse of the procession, a loud crack sounds,
followed by shouts and sereams. You freeze. Surely
molf That crack sounded like a gunshot! And fram
the reaction of the crowd, vour fears could well have
Deen realized. You nipinsidea doorway and change
ito the Silver Crusader. When you fight your way
through the crowds to the President's car, if is all
over, He has been shot neatly through the chest and
Killed immediately. The bullet has been dug out of
the car seat and you turn it over in your hand. Four
letlers are engraved in it: F-E-A-R. The outlawed
organization has succeeded in assassinaling the
President! You mist capture the heads of F,F-A-R. at
their meeting before they are able to wreak any
more havoc on the world. Turn to 311.
158-159

158

The Museum of Egyptian Heritage is in the mc
town area. Everything seems perfecily norma
when you enter and you make for the Head Cura
tor’s office, Dr Kablah is an elderly proiessor-type=
swith white hair and a thick white moustache that
hangs over his mouth. He is surprised to sce you Dut
assures you that, as far as he knows, everythings =
order, He offers ta double-check all his treasures
make sure nothing has disappeared. Do you wis
him to do this {turn to 416), or will you ask him to ge
someone to show you round (turn to 135)?

159
You press the button on your Circuit Jammer. The
Cyborg’s grin fades as the device affects its elec
tronic functions. Its abilities have been reduced t
those of an ordinary man! Now you may battle the
creature on more equal terms:

TITANIUM CYBORG ski1tg

The others watching the iight are frightened to sce
their leader stripped of his power so easily. If you
defeat the Cyborg, they will surrender to you. Turn
to 440, if you svin this battle.

STAMINA 10

160-161

160
As you push your trolley around the shelves, you
notice a young boy stick a pack of Munchie Bars in
his pocket and leave. Will you ignore the incident
‘turn to 424), or apprehend the young thief (turn
= 8)?

161

The curator is mildly amused at your suggestion
that his stuffed animals could have anything to do
with the killings. ‘1 see,’ he chuckles, with more
than a little mockery in his tone. ‘The elephant
stepped off his pedestal and told his cleaners, “Ex-
cuse me, won't you- I'mjust off out fora strollround
the grounds.” And you think the tiger somchow
passed right through its #lass case, camedownstairs
— through the crowds, who didn’t notice anything
odd — left fora morning in Audubon Park and then
returned at lunch-time? I thought you superhero-
types were supposed to be bright . - .’ You feel a bit
foolish for even suggesting it. You decide to leave.
Will you head for the zoo (turn to 408), or try
somewhere else (turn to 148)?
162-164

162

You decide to return to town. You have already
missed part of the day and Jonah Whyte will be
furious when you return to work. Do you want to
take the rest of the day off at Wisneyland, anamuse-
ment park you pass on the way into town (turn to
15), or will you catch a bus back to work to make
sure your attendance record doesn’t get any worse
(turn to 225)?

163
You have nothing you can use against so powerful 2
creature. You will either have to take it on with your
bare hands, or mun off to fetch extra help. Ifyou wish
to pet extra help, turn to 353. Otherwise, resolve the
battle:

CREATURE OF
CARNAGE SKILL i2 STAMINA 14
if you defeat it, turn to 131-

164

The captain's quarters would be the obvious place
fora high-level meeting. His rooms are immaculate,
with a fine view out over the bay. But they are
deserted: there is no one inside. You leave and
return to the shore. Turn to 368.

165-166

165

You arrive in the park to find a crowd dispersing
2nd an ambulance pulling away. The police are
zetting back into their cars and driving off. A single
car remains, with one police officer standing by a
Darrier which is marking out an area where the
meident — whatever it was— must have taken place.
A deep red stain marks the footpath behind the
barter. You talk to the officer, Heis natinterested in
your inquiries, but you do manage to squeeze one
ward from his tight lips: ‘Mugging. Do you want to
change into the Silver Crusader to persuade him to
tell you more about what happened (turn to 36), will
you leave him and investigate the surrounding
bushes (farn to 54). or are you wasting your time
here, since the crime has already been committed
(turn to 181)?

166
You gain ground and catch up with the pickpocket.
As you grab him. he spins round to face you and
draws out a knife! You will have to fight him with
your bare hands, as you cannot risk revealing your-
self as the Silver Crusader:

PICKPOCKET
If you defeat him, tur to 296.

SKILL7 STAMINA f
167-168

167

You settle back down at your desk. On the comer of
the desk is a newspaper Open on page three. You
flick through the pages and find a short piece which
catches yourattention, Your old enemy, the Smoke,
is up to his tricks again. Aknown agent of F.E.A-R.,
the Smoke is able to turn into a gaseous form to
commit his crimes. An incorrigible self-publicst, he
cannot resist tantalizing the police with clues as to
where he will next sirike and often uses the news-
papers to announce his intentions. if you can only
crack his clue, He is quoted as saying, “What sort of
fish does not like the water? You'll find out when it
next rains . . .” You will crack this due by subtract-
ing 20 from the reference you are on when you are
told itis raining, and turning to this new reference
Turn now to 398.

168
Although you may well have something in your
Accessory Belt which you can use against the Tiger
Cat, you have no time to use it. Resolve this combat:

TIGER CAT

If you win, turn to 124-

SKILLQ STAMINAS

169-170

169

You rush across the stage and disappear into one of
the wings after the kidnapper. Stairs lead down to
the dressing-rooms. At the foot of the stairs are
three rooms. Room number one has two stars on the
door. The door to room number two has one star
and is shghtly ajar. Room number three has no stars
on it. Which will you try:

Room number one? Turn to 322
Room number 5yo? Turn to 288
Room number three? Turn to 250

170
You may defeat the Mummy with Energy Blast, but
you will have to use a much more powerful one than
normal When you first hit the Mummy, you will
realize this, but not before. Therefore you must lose
at least 4 STAMINA points in this battle. Lf you wish
to escape, turn to 314. If vou defeat the Mummy,

turn to 431.
471-172

171
You artve just in time. As you are about to enter the
duilding, three men turn the comer towards you. In
his gold and furs, Daddy Rich is returning home,
tanked by his two burly bodyguards! They hesitate
when they see you. Speckles of blood on his cuffs
and shoes confirm your suspicions, If you have
Energy Blast, turn to 371. Otherwise, turn to 139 to
confront Daddy Rich.

172

With vour Super Strength, you pick up a heavy
sidewalk sign outside the next-door store. As the
Alchemists emerge, you fling it at them, A stke!
The sign smashes into them, knocks tivo of them
out and leaves the third so groggy that itis an easy
matter for you to capture him. Turn to 336.
173-174

173

‘So! Jaughs Dr Macabre. “We are honoured to have
the famous Silver Crusader witness our little shop-
ping trip. Beware, my beauties. Guard your minds
well.’ You concentrate on Macabre himself and can
gradually feel his will slipping as you take contro! of
his mind, Eventually you feel you have captured his
will and you order him to bring his creations out of
the drug store. The three figures follow their m1as-
ter’s orders and they walk towards you. But when
they reach you, the two misshapen beast-men
strike! Six arms grab you and fling you to the
ground! You look up in time to see the Tiger Man's
sharp jaws closing around your neck. You have
failed in this strugele, and lost your hife - - -

174
You pay the admission charge and enter the Fun
House. You walk along a narrow passageway. As
you turn a dark comer, a luminous skeleton appears
in front of you, shrieking wildly! You jump, and
then laugh; just one of the scares of the Fun House.
Further down the passage, your feet stumble on 2

174

wobbly floor. Then the walls begin to sway. Sud-
denly, your foot steps on something and you fall
fonvards. But this time it is not a wobbly floor; you
fail through the ground and land on a mabber mat-
tress in a dark pit. Although it is pitch-black, you
can tell that you are not alone. Another figure
touches you! A yoice calls outand you answer. ‘Oh,
thank God someone else is here!’ gasps a man‘s
voice. “Thave been here for two hours! [can't find a
way out. And not only that, my wallet has gone. I'm
sure it has been stolen. And [ don’t think this was
any accident. My name is Grant Morley, a reporter
on the Tifa Tomes. Thave been covering an exposé to
reveal the identity of the Scarlet Prankster. Earlier I
met an informant at the Big Wheel who gave mea
key to one of the rooms here where he thought 1
could get some useful information. That key was in
my wallet’ You consider the situation. The Scarlet
Prankster is a dangerous criminal who delights in
grisly practical jokes. You decide to change into the
Silver Crusader under cover of the pitch-blackness.
Then the two of you search the walls for a way out.
You find a hidden door which lets you into the main
room of the Fun House. If you have Super Strength,
turn to 248. Ifyou have ETS, turn to 271. If you have
Psi-Powers or Energy Slast, turn to 143.
175

175

You remember your clue. You ask someone about
such a room and you are directed to the observation
tower. Hoping that this may lead you to the mutant,
you rush up to the room at the very top. There,
staring out of the window at the huge reactor sttuc
ture, is amanin a white coat with a bloated head the
size of a pumpkin! You creep up behind him, deliver
a blow to the back of his neck to knock him out and
carry him downstairs to the waiting scientists. You
can only hope that they can find a way either of
curing him or of taming his destructive urges.
Though you do not realize it, you have saved
perhaps the whole of Titan City froma deadly threat
by capturing Sidney Knox. In appreciation of your
sayin the Laboratory, the scientists bring you 2
small pen-like device. ‘Crusader, take this as a gift
fram us,’ pleads the Institute Director. “One of our
men made this in his spare time. He calls it a
“Circuit Jammer’. It is still to be fully tested, but
seems to work okay. 1 know you often face mecha-
nical villains and their contraptions. With this, you
will be able to disable their circuits. You are looking
for Vladimir Utoshski and he is a powerful adver-
sary. With this you will stand a better chance.’ You
thank the Director for his gift. lt may well come in
handy. You may award yourself 5 Hero Points for
saving the plant. Turn to 125.

176-177

176

There is only one thing you can do from the ground.
You step up to the radio and try to convince the
Tormentor of the folly of his ways. The madman
gloats at your miserable pleas, But from the tone of
his voice, you can tell that he is impressed. Roll two
dice. If the total is less than your sKILL, turn to 49.
& the total is equal tu or greater than your SKILL, turn
*0 260.

177
You have no time to use vour Psi-Powers, as the
assassin is about to fire. You leap on him from
behind and the two of you struggle on the root:

ASSASSIN
if you defeat him, turn to 258.

SKILLQ STAMINAS
178-179

178
You concentrate hard, trying to force droplets of
water out of the air to extinguish the flames. Butit s
no usc. One of them puts his hand on a counter of

socks and flames begin to rise. You had better act
quickly. Lurn to 133-

WK

179

You find yourself at the foot of a three-storey build-
ing. A scruffy-looking Chinese laundry is open on
the ground floor. By the front door are stairs which
go up to the other floors. A nameplate by the stairs
reads: ‘Chomsky and Sons: Exporters in Biomech-
anical Enjineering’. Will you go in the Chinese
laundry (turn to 266), or will you Inveshgeie
Chomsky and Sons (furn to 44)?

180-181

180

You rush to the edge of the water and scan the
Surface. Thirty metres out from the beach you find
what you are looking for. The tell-tale black fin of a
huge ripper shark is cutting its way towards the
Seach. Directly in its path is a young boy, and in
seconds the shark will have reached him! You have
one chance to use Energy Blast on the creature before
i reaches the struggling boy. Roll tivo dice. If the
number rolled is less than or equal ts your SKIL.
score, furn to 123. If the number you roll is higher
that YOur SKILI. score, turn te 255.

181

The familiar bleeping on your wrist alerts you. Your
Crimewatch is receiving a message. The electronic
voice speaks two words: ‘PARKER AIRPORT.” Hur-
nediy you change into the Silver Crusader and
speed towards the outskirts of the city. It never rains
but it pours: halfway there, the Crimewatch bleeps
2gain! This time the voice is warning you of another
incident, at “PETER LawoRATORIES. You have no
indication of which is more urgent. Where will you
go? To Peter Laboratories (turn to 284) or to Parker
Airport (turn to 410)?
182

182
You leap aside to avoid the frozen bulk speeding

towards you. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, you

avoid it. If you are Unlucky, it smacks into you,
doing 2 STAMINA points of damage. From your
Accessory Belt you draw a Low-Powered Heat Laser
and point it at the Ice Queen. You press the button
and send a pencil beam of heat at your foe. She
winces as it stings her and holds out her hand. A
similar beam of ice turns into a frozen shield which
forces the laser beam back towards you! The tro
powers struggle against each other, backwards and
forwards, as if both energy sources were am-
wrestling. You worry about the Lasers power
source, but then you see signs that she is weaken-
ing. Her icy shield falls back and eventually dis
appears, and she squeals in pain as the laser heat -
which would be no more than mildly uncomfortable
to an ordinary person — burns her. She pleads with
you to stop and offers you some information which
will be useful, You release the button. ‘Keep it off!
she screams. ‘1 will tell you swhat I know about the
F.E.A.R. meeting you are trying to locate. I don't
know exactly where, but the meeting is certaimly
somewhere on 3rd Avenuel” With your device
trained on her, you bind her hands and feet. Turn
to 241.

183-184

183

Warning the police and staff to hide behind cover,
vou release a ferocious blast at the vault. The metal
smoulders and melts a little, but the door does nat
open. You breathe heavily and beads of sweat break
out across your forehead. The blast was highly
charged and you mustlose 2STAMINA points. You
are not sure whether or not you have the power to
break through the solid steel doar. If you wish to try
again, turn to 275- If you don’t want to risk lasing
any more STAMINA, turn to 60,

184

You land a fair blow on the creature. But rather than
being knocked back, the Mummiy’s chest collapses
under the blow and then re-forms. Your punch has
done nothing! Staring in disbelief, you are off guard
as the creature fastens its hands around your neck,
Your struggles are futile, as its hands tighten their
erip. This is the end of your career as the Silver
Crusader - -.
385

485
mush up to a puny-looking bespectacled man
js shaking with fright. ‘There!’ he cies, point-
102 man running up through the next carriage

he’s stolen my wallet!” You race aller him,
ane else moves: they don’t want to get involved.
Ty you could change into the Silver Crusader
dice and compare the total with your sx
score. Ifthe total is less flare or equal lo your sein,
fur to 266. Ifthe total is grenter then your SKILL,
sum to 106,

186

186

You quickly pull a Power Drainer from your Acces-
sory Belt and attach it to the Android's back. You
wait for its actions to sloww down as your device
begins to drain its internal batteries. But nothing
happens! A light on the Power Drainer comes on- its
power supply has run down! You curse and think
desperately about what else you could use. The
answer comes from a man in the crowd who has
been watching the demonstration. “Try this,’ he
shouts, throwing you a small pen-like device. “The
demonstrator was asked what happens if the
Android becomes uncontrollable and showed us
this. He called it a “Circuit Jammer” or something.
Maybe it will help." You catch the device and hold it
to the Android. Sure enough, the little gadget lives
up to its name and the movements of the Android
cease. The crowd calms down as the machine grinds
toa hall, eventually toppling over to land harmless-
ly on the ground. This looks like a useful device and
you keep it with you. You may also add 4 Hero
Points far defeating s the Android. Turn ta 75.

187-188

You chmb into a carriage behind a couple with a
young daughter. As you set off up the long climb,
the excitement is mounting. Squeals come from the
nders as the first steep drop lifts their stomachs. Itis
not until vou reach the first sharp bend that you
notice the danger. The young sirl in the seatin front
of you is wearing a safety harness which is hanging
on by only a couple of threads! As you streak into
the bend and are wrenched to the right, the harness
snaps and the girl lurches across the carnage. Can
you rescue her before she falls to herdeath? Roll two
dice and compare the total with your skit. If the
toll exceeds your SKILL, turn to 224. Otherwise turn
to 415.

188

just before the pawwnbroker passed out, You man-
aged to catch a strong mental image. He was
obviously concerned about something, and a vision
of 2 secret trapdoor flashed through his mind. You
search the shop and indeed you find a trapeloor,
hidden underneath the counter. You nit and
step down into a small chamber, A door leads off
from the chamber. Voices are coming fram behind
the door and a line of light comes [rom underneath
it. Turn to 298.
189-190

189
You find there is a new Michael Blackson album
called *Willer’, all about spooks and ghouls, and
decide to buy it. You go straight home to listen to it
Turn to 327.

1g0
You arrive at Central Hospital and ask at the desk
about the strange admission. You are regarded sus-
piciously and one nurse, turning her nose up, says:
‘Why do you want to know? Are you one of those
gutter-press reporters?’ You show her the emblem
on the chest of your costume, but she is unim-
pressed. Finally, a police officer fills you in. “Yeah, !
know who you'Te looking for, Crusader. Something
strange poing on there if you ask me. But the guy
died an hour ago. He’s gone down to the morgue.”

There’s not much more you can do here. Will you
leave and head for your aunt's {him to 134), or do
you want to check the morgue anyway (turn to 395)?

191-194

aos
in your shimmering costume, you step towards the
cowd. If you have ETS, turn to 418. Lf you have

Psi-Powers, tum to 9. Otherwise tum to 149.

192
You concentrate on the creature’s mind. Its head
swings round to face you, as if it can sense your
powers. But you can make no sense of the thought-
waves reaching you. Certainly they are nat of this
earth. Will vou take the creature on ith your bare
hands (turn to 262), or will you decide that the army
will stand a better chance than you and leave them
to it (turn to 319)?

193
If there are any dogs s&ill left in the Lab, you must
face them. Turn to 120, but fight only as many dags
2s are left. If you have defeated all the dogs, turn

to 350.
194
The assassin is taking aim. There is no time to use a

device from your Accessory Belt. You will have to
leap on him and grapple with him hand to hand:

ASSASSIN

If vou defeat him, turn to 258.

SKILLY STAMINAS
195-196

195

A slim, red-haired woman opens the door and
introduces herself as Wayne Bruce's wife. You
break the news to her gently and, to your astonish-
meni, she takes it unemotionally. There wes
nothing left between Wayne and me,’ she says. ‘1
despise the man. I wouldn‘t wish him dead, but
now he is, Tcouldn’t give a damn. I certainly didn’t
kill him, if that’s what you're thinking. And I'ye no
idea who might have done. Maybe someone at the
office will know, I don’t.’ If you have Ps-Powers,
turn ta 348. Otherswvise you may either try his office
(turn lo 233), or leave the whole affair to the police
(turn Eo 73).

196

You circle the building, waiting for the villain to
make his escape, Ten minutes later, a door opens
and a serpent-headed man in a rough green cos-
tume steps out, holding Lola Manche in his arms-
You stand before him and order him to drop the
starlet. A wide prin spreads across his face and he
hisses. He drops the girl obligingly and turns to
figght you:

THE SERPENT SKILLS

‘The Serpent has a powerful secret weapon — his
poisonous bite. Each time he hits you, roll one die.
A roll of 1 or 2 indicates a bite and the poison will
take effect. Deduct 1 $11.1. point cach time you are
bitten. However, the effects of the bite are only
temporary. You will recover your SKILL after one
full day. If you defeat the villain, turn to 432.

STAMINAS

197

197

Having defeated the shark, you turn to the young
boy, who is splashing about in the water, terrified.
You calm him down, lift him out of the sea and carry
him back to the beach, where his sobbing mother is
waiting. She thanks you again and again and wants
to know if she can do anything in return. Her uncle
runs a circus and she could ret you the best seats.
You humour her and thank her for her generous
offer, but insist that there is really no need. But your
protests are of no avail. She writes down a tele-
phone number, 444-5666, and tells you to ring a
‘Captain Menagerie’ any time you would like to see
his show. She goes on and on about this uncle of
hers. She tells you that he is the ringmaster of a
Greus and has strange habits. He has a seeret office
reached underneath the lion’s cage where he keeps
his money and papers. This information may be
useful to you. Hf you ever need to find him, you may
search for him by adding 50 to the reference you are
on when you reach a lion’s cage. By now this
woman is becoming a pest. You excuse yourself.
You really must be on your way. After secretly
changing back into your street clothes, you head for
home. Turn to 18.
198

198

You fly up towards the central dome of the Fun
House. Sure enough, your information was correct.
High up the wall of the Fun House is a door. You
alight outside the door, burst inside and startle a
hunched figure dressed in a colourful jester’s cos-
tume. He grabs for a piece of paper on the table in
front of him and tries to stuff it into his mouth! But
you are too quick for him. You manage to stop him
eating the paper and must now fight him:

SCARLET PRANKSTER skittg
If you defeat him, turn to 333.

STAMINAS

199-200

199

You search round the erie for signs of criminal
activity. Butall are deserted except one, in which a
middle-aged man is asleep at his desk. He is nat-
urally startled at your arrival and asksif he can help.
Apparently business has not been good recently.
There doesn’t seem to be anything strange going on
here. Turn to 368.

200

Your Bolt misses and the Fire Warrior piles into you,
fists swinging. You manage to fight him off, but not
before he has given you some nasty burns. Lose 4
STAMINA points. While you are recovering, the
fyur Fire Warriors make off down the escalator and
out of the shop. The shop staff are putting out the
fires that have been caused, and they look at you
scormfully. ‘1 thought this Crusader character was
supposed to be a hero,’ sneers one. ‘Pretty pathetic
if you ask me.” You limp off downstairs and leave
the shop. After finding a suitable place to change
back into your street clothes, you head for work.
Tum to 301-
201

201

Radd Square is one of Titan’s City’s most pleasant
areas. On a sunny day, the cool sprinkling of the
fountain is refreshing and the blossoming cherry
tees make it a picturesque place for the locals ta eat
their lunch and chat. The crowd you have noticed
has gathered round the fountain. You change into
the Silver Crusader and step over to sce what is
happening. As you arrive, you hear a piercing
scream and panic suddenly hits the crowd. They
turnand flee from the fountain. You rush forward ta
see what is happening. Risiny out of the water is a
huge figure, some four metres high. Its vast, bulky
shape is green and scaly It opens its huge jaws and
leans forwards, snatching a fleeing woman and
holding her high. You leap up to fight the creature.
if vou have Super Sirengin, turn to 272. [f you have
Psi-Powers, turn to 326. Ifyou have Energy Biasf, turn
to 367. If you have ETS, turn to 40g.
202

Strolling downtown, you stop first at the bank to get
some cash. Next stop is a pizza parlour for a bite to
eat. You take a stool facing out across Banner Street
and watch the shoppers passing as you eat your
pizza. On the far side of the road is a man you
recognize. It is Drew Swain, a retired millionaire
who made his fortune manufacturing the collection
tins used by charities. He steps into a baker's shop;
when he comes out, something strange happens.
He takes a step forward and suddenly freezes, held
like a statue in an off-balance pose. A blue van
draws up and abscures your view. When the van
drives off, Swain is gone! You saw it with your own
eyes! But it happened so quickly that you are now 2
long way behind the kidnappers. Will you nip to the
toilets in the back of the shop and change costume?
If so, will you follow the van (turn to 151), or ask
questions at the bakery {turn io 41)? If you are
determined to have an afternoon off and to do
nothing, turn to 428-

2037204

203

You aim an Energy Bolt into the brown vapour. Lf
you miss, furn to 153. If you hit, the brown cloud
swirls and begins to solidify as it drifis down to the
sround. When it reaches the ground, it has re-
formed into the body of a dark-skinned man. You
Save captured the Smoke! However, you have not
managed to prevent him sending radio photo-
2raphs of the dactor’s notes to the headquarters of
FEAR. Nevertheless, you may add 2 Hero Points
tor the arrest and turn to 162.

204

As you summon up your power, the mutant’s atten-
ton switches to you. You release the blast and
Sidney Knox blinks. To your horror, it turns around
in the airand heads back towards you, hitting youin
the chest. You must lose 1 SKILL and 3 STAMINA
points for this. You may now either rush in to attack
him (turn to 33), or back away to nurse your injury
and leave the Lab (turn to 125).
205-207

ae)

Extracting a Microlaser from your Accessory Belt,
you step up to the car door to start to cul if open.
‘Get out of it,” shaps an angry fireman. “What're you
trying to do, fancy pants? Put us all out of work?
This is a job for professionals, not some peacock
costumed amateur!" You try to reason with the man,
explaining that your Microlaser will do the job im
half the time it would take him. “Okay, hot shot,” he
says. ‘Let’s see this fancy gizmo.’ You flick the
button, Nothing happens! Red-faced, you step back
and Ict the firemen cut away the door. Whata time
for a malfunction! You sneak off into a side-alley,
change clothes and walk back upstairs to work.
Tum to 398,

206
What password do you wish to try: Peling Duck
{turn to 381), or Quicksilver (turn to 130)?

207
‘The Ringmaster leaps to a small door in the wall,
opens it and jumps through it — straight into the
lions’ cage! An evil smile spreads across his lips as
you follow him. Snapping a couple of words at the
lions, he sends them towards you. Ifyou have ETS,
tarn to 92. Otherwise turn te 297.

208-210

208
You Keep out of sight and follaw the Macro Brain's
movements. Although his forces are putting up a
strong fight, the army is holding them back success-
fully. Your opportunity arises when the Macro
Brain steals away into the Colonel’s office. You are
the only one who has noticed and vou follow him
there. If you have Psi-Powers, turn to 274. Lf you
have ETS, turn to 427. Hf you have Energy Blast, turn

to 392.

209

You send a powerful submission blast of mental
energy towards the figure behind the boxes. An
anguished scream sounds from the thief. The foot
twitches, then rests motionless. You step carcfully
over to investigate. Turn to 286.

219

You withdraw a Sonie Confuser and prepare to use
it on the gang. But an instant before they emerge,
you realize this may not be such a good idea. There
are too many innocent bystanders to be certain that
your gadget will not harm them too. [f you wish to
use itanyway, turn to 406. If you mstead putitaway
and fight the Alchemists, turn to 243.
211-212

211

Papers in his briefcase identify the man as Wayne
Bruce, President of Euro-American Security Inc.
There are also documents from his lawyer which
relate ta divorce proceedings. Other than these,
there appears to be nothing else out of the ordinary
in his case. Do you wish to yisit his home to talk to
his wife (turn to 195), will you head for his office
{turn to 233), or will you leave this apparently
simple, bul brutal, mugging in the hands of the
police (turn to 73)?

212

Apart from making you large, small, fat, thin, long
and short, the mirrors do not seem to hold any
secrets. You are making little progress here. You
overhear someone making comments about how
dangerous he thinks the Big Dipper is. Will you go
and check it out (turn to 187}, or is if time you sere
making for hame (turn to 103)?

213-214

=33
Two dogs are not fully under your control. As you
step into the room, they push past youandrushinto
the screaming crowd outside. Your first duty must

be to deal with these beasts:

FirstRADIATION DOG sktti.7  STAMINAS
Second RADIATION

DOG SKILI.€ STAMINAS

Fight them one ata time. When one of the dogs first
rolls a higher Attack Strength than you, turn lo 31.
But before you do, nole {itis reference, so you may
return here afterwards. If you defeat both the

escaped dogs, turn to 247.

214

You come to a junction on the edge of Audubon
Park. The only likely-looking buildings are on the
north-east corner of the junction, where people are
going in and out of a busy diner. Next to the diner is
2 pawnbroker’s_ Will you investigate the diner (turn
to 351) or the pawnbroker’s (turn to 147)?

245

245
in the morning, you set off for a stroll. As you turn
the comer at the end of the block, the beeping from
your wrist signifies the start of your busiest day yet-
“MURDOCK NUCLEAR LABORATORIES,’ speaks the
message from your Crimewatch, You gulp: atomic
weapons experiments are conducted at the Mur-
cock Laboratories. Whateveris happening could be
very serious indeed. You must get to the Murdock
Labs without delay!

An atmosphere of panic is in the air when you
amnve. A series of controlled radiation experiments
were being conducted on animals to help determine
the effects of a nuclear explosion. Some startling
results had been achieved. Under certain condi-
bons, distinct signs of increased mental powers
were being shown by several of the experimental
animals. Some of these were quite spectacular. They
had, for example, produced a dog able to talk and a
chimpanzee able to play computer games. But they
had no doubt that similar experiments on humans
would have produced much more dramatic results.
This theory has now been proved true. Sidney
Knox, one of the research assistants, had crept into
the radiation chamber that morning and subjected
himself to the rays. His brain is now twice its normal
size and he has the ability ty manipulate objects by
will-power alone! But there is an unloreseen side-
effect. Sidney Knox, normally a peaceful individual,
has developed a destructive streak. His powers
enable him to will the radiation emitter to implode
215 — 216

and destroy itself. The dangeris if he gets anywhere
near the nuclear reactor: destruction of the reactor
would mean disaster on a grand scale for Titan City.
No one knows where he is now, but the reactor
must be protected at all costs. Where will you begin
your search for the self-made mutant? At the nuc
lear reactor (turn t 343) or around the test laborator-
ies (turn to 377)?

216
You concentrate hard. A dream-like vision shows
the scene in the aircraft's cockpit. The Tormentor,
shagiy-haired and cackling with a demonic laugh,
has control of the plane. ‘The pilot and co-pilot are
bound hand and foot against one wall of the cockpit.
The passengers are panicking and their screams
only delight the madman. But what can you do from
the ground? You may want to communicate tele
pathically with one of the passengers — someone
who may be strong enough to grapple with the
villain {turn to 308). If you have another plan, turn

lo 176,

217-218

217

Sefore she fell unconscious, your lsi-Powers picked
up a strong feeling of fear. The Tiger Cat was
thinking about a meeting that she couldn't afford to
miss. Of course! F.E.A.R.! You concentrate your
thoughts, bul can only glimpse one piece of in-
formation before she blacks aut. The meeting willbe
on 5th Avenue. But this is a long road. However,
you can get no more information. Turn to 124.

218

You make a promise to yourself. Tomorrow you are
going to arrive at work om time. With that in mind,
you can decide either to stay in and rest for the
evening (furn to 337), or go out to see a show. You
have heard that ‘Rats’, the all-star musical by Lloyd
Webber-Andrews, is playing to packed houses. If
you fancy a night on the town, tum to 43.
219-220 221-222

221
Tear?’ he laughs. ‘Yes, I can tell you how to find
tear. I found it myself. If must be going back ten
stars or more now. We were out in deep sea catch-
img tunny. An’ this storm, she swelled out of na-
where. Neptune's fury, we called it. Our ship was
tossed about like a pea in a pot. Seven good men
were lost overboard, and...’ You listen to him

219
The cool air is refreshing and allows you to gathe
your thoughts. You must anticpate the F.E. AR
meeting if you are ta prevent their master-plan from
succecding. If only you knew where it was to be
held, and. . . Thump! You feel a heavy blow across
the back of your head and you drop to your knees. 4
rough accent says: ‘Just get the money and let's 2
going. Quick” A hand searches through your pock- politely, cursing silently to yourself, You weuld have
ets for your cash. Though grogey, you know whatis to get stuck listening to some old fool's sea-stories.
happening. You are being mugged! You could, # Turn to 368.
you wished, fight back, bul that would mean you
having to reveal your secret identity. Or you could
let them think they have knocked you out — you {
have very little money on you, anyway. Will you i
fight back (turn to 230), or let them rob you (turn
to 279)?

220
You wail for some time, but nothing happens. \
Eventually you give up. Puzzled about the whole \

affair, you decide to leave the airportand catch a tad
home. The driver has his radio on. As he chats
away, the radio splutters and fizzles. The music dies
and an unscheduled announcement interrupts the
programune. Turn to 292.

A recent visitor from Metroville, the Tiger Cat has
amived in town. This extraordinary villainess is a
fierce fighter, but can instantly disguise herself as a
harmless pussy cat.

223-224

<23

You approach a grand caravan painted in gay cob
ours. ‘Thereis nateply when you knock on the door,
so you push it open. Inside, the caravan is tastefully
decorated and photographs of circus acts line the
walls, But no one is about. You can leave the circus
and go to either the zoo (turn to 408) or the Natural
History Museum (tum to 365).

224

You reach forward to grab the girl. Your clutching
fingers manage to catch hold of one of the straps on
her dungarees. But the material is not strong. Ihe
strap breaks and the helpless girl plunges over the
side of the carnage to her death! Panic breaks out
and the riders’ screams continue until the nde is
over. Desolate, you decide you have had enough of
Wisneyland- Turn to 103.

225-227

<5
As the bus comes into Radd Square, you notice an
excited crowd of peuple gathered in the centre of the
Square. Will you investigate the disturbance (turn to
291), or ignore it and continue back to work (turn
& 435)?

226
Where will you head for now? If you wish to make
that visit to your aunt, turn to 234. If you prefer to go
downtown to see if you can get tickets for a special
concert that Georgie Boy and the Vulture Club are
giving, turn to 122.

227
Forcapturing the Poisoner, you may award yourself
4 Hero Points. Before leaving the reservoir, you pa
through his pockets and come across an interesting
clue. The Beast-King has escaped from jail and is
planning a raid on Titan zoo. You note this informa-
ton. Turn to 107-
LS 5a

——

228

228

You study the newspaper. Under the headline
‘ALCHEMISTS EN CLEVELAND’, the story describes
how the notorious gang of chemical experts entered
a branch of the Cleveland Bank on 113th Street at
4a.m., bypassed the alarm, locked the security
guard in the vault on a time-switch and made off
with a number of safe-deposit boxes. Although it
was impossible to tell how much was taken in the
raid, claims from the owners of the deposit boxes
are now coming in. Apart from the cash, many
valuable papers had been stolen. Do you want to
mvestigate the robbery as the Silver Crusader (turn
(02112), or will vou see what else isin the paper (turn
ty 386)?
229-230

229
Sirens sound as first a fire-engine, then an ambo-

lance, come racing round the comer- From the other
direction, another ambulance arrives. The firemen
get to work on cutting the doors away to release the
occupants, both of wham are injured and suffering
from shock, But the ambulance drivers are in the
middle of a heated argument about who should pick
up the patients! Meanwhile the fire has spread to
the tank. The explosion that follows settles the
ambulance drivers’ dispute. . - You return to work
upstairs. Turn to 398,

230

One of them stuffs your money into his pocket,
while the other is looking at your driving-licence,
wondering whether or not he may be able to sell it
You leap to your feetand grapple with the muggers.
One of them grabs the siweat-shirt you are wearing
and it rips in his hand. Your heart sinks as the tear
reveals your Cnisader costume undemeath it! The
two mugeers gasp: ‘The Silver Crusader! Hey, e1,
sorry, Crusader. How were we to know it was you?
They give themselves up withouta struggle and vou
hand them in at the local police station. But your
career is over. Word of your true identity will soon
get about from these two. And when it does, the
lives of all your family and friends will be in danger
{from criminals seeking revenge. The time has come
far you to hang up your Cape - - -

231—232

231

You take outa vial of Concentrated Antifreeze and
rush out into the centre of the ice. Removing the
stopper, you pour it on to the ice around the two
sis. A puddle of water spreads around them and
their struggles allow them to move more freely.
Moments later they are free and you help them to
the side of the pool, where friends are waiting with
warm blankets. You may add 2 Hero Points for the
rescue, then you must leave the pool (turn to 362).
But you may, if you wish, check the heating-plant
Sirst before you go (turn to 347).

232

You creep silently over to the boxes. In a single
motion, you grab the foot and heave the fugitive
trom his hiding-hole. But when you see what you
have caught, vour anger rises. The thief can be na
more than nine years old! A voung boy, still clutch-
ing his booty—a half-eaten Goo Bar—looks up atyou
with terrified eyes! You grab his wrist and march
him inside. Turn to 316.
233-234

233

At the offices of Euro-American Security, the stati
are shocked to hear of their President's murder.
Wayne Bruce's secretary, an attractive blonde with
dark eyes, introduces you to the company’s senior
executives. But none can shed any light on why
anyone should want to murder their boss. You
decide that the incident must have been the mue-
ging it seemed and that vou will leave it ta the
police. Turn to 73-

234

You react immediately and swing the wheel full
circle, taking your foot off the pedal at the same
hime, Your car lunches and stops dead. Although
you have avoided hitting ihe boy, the woman in
Purple to does not have the same speed of reaction.
Her car hits the boy, who drops unconscious to the
ground. The power stops immediately and a crowd
of people, led by the boy's shricking mother, flood
on to the track. The boy is still breathing. An ambu-
lance arrives to take him to hospital. You are fecling
somewhat shocked by the near-disaster and decade
you have had enough of Wisneyland for the day.
Turn to 103.

235-237

235
Your hands drop, as if in submission to his orders.

Your right hand moves towards a pouch on your
Accessory Belt. “Not so fast, Crusader!’ the Poisoner
wams. Touch that belt and this vial disappears inta
the water supply.” He has spotted your plan. Turn

236
Quick as a flash, you fly out over the roof, come up
m front of the man and hit him with a blow that
knocks the gun out of his hand. He falls back on to
the roofand you must resolve your battle with him:

ASSASSIN
lf you defeat him, turn to 258.

SKILL Y STAMINAB

237
You step up to the door and wait for the frantic
barking to die down. It does not. In fact the dogs are
clawing and jumping at the door, which is begin-
ning to weaken. You grasp the handle and prepare
to rush in. Roll one die. lf you roll 1—4, turn to 132. lf
you roll 5 or 6, turn to 375-
238

238
When you arrive at the house, a young boy opens
the door. ‘Wow!’ he gasps. The Silver Crusader
come to see us! Er. .. if you want to see my dad,
he’s not in. But you can come in, anyway.” You
explain that it’s kim you want to see and you ask
whether he’s had any interesting dreams recently
He tells you about this ‘really neat’ one he's just had
about a huge green monster rising out of a fountain
and attacking people. Your suspicions were correct.
Thisis the Brain Child’ you were warned about. His
dreams are so vivid that they actually come to life.
Tis mother appears and you explain the situation.
She will see that he is taken to a hospital immediate
ly far treatment. You have saved the aty from any
number of possible disasters here. Add 3 Hero
Points. [Tis mother tells you that her son sometimes
has premonilions of the future. He was talking the
other day about something that might be important.
Apparently a man in control of wild animals was
using them to get some sort of revenge. He had a
secret room under 2 lion's cage with a special trap-
dour leading from it. With this information you can
search for such a secret room, if you arrive ata lion's
cage, by adding 5p to the reference you are on at the
time and turing to this new reference. You may
add 1 Luck point for this information. Leave when
you are ready and return to Radd Square (turn to

71).

239-241

239
there is no one aboutto help vou. Whatcan you do?

Simply leave the creature where it lies? You decide
the best thing to dois to place it back in its grave and
cover it until you can bring the police to dispose of
the Reincarnation more effectively. You cannot sain
any Hero Points for this encounter, as no one has
seen you defeat it! Such are the rewards of a devo-
son to public service .., Now vou continue by
Setting off once more for your aunt's. Turn to 76.

240
The Princess's sarcophagus, in allits splendour, is
watched by three security guards. Priceless golden
treasures adorn the exhibit. [here is no doubt that
any of these would make rich pickings for a thict.
You talk to the guards and compare the exhibit with
its description in the catalogue. All seems to be in
order. It seems thal you are wasting your time here,
and you decide to leave. Turn to 276.

241

The police arrive to take care of the [ce Queen. You
may add 4 Hero Points for capturing her and then
you must leave the abattoir. Turn to 362.
242

242
A huge crowd has gathered round [itan City Lib-
rary. The police are struggling to keep then away
tom the building to allow both the army and the
fire-brigade to get closer. What is happening? Your
question is answered when a third-floor window
smashes. The smash is followed by screams as two
bodies come hurtling out of the broken window,
followed by a huge bookshelf. Books and glass rain
down on the terrified crowds. Inside you can hear a
roar which chills you to the bone. The police chief is
glad to see you. ‘We need help, Crusader,’ he
Pleads. ‘Some sort of creature is inside there.
They've called it the Devastator. Looks like some-
thing not of this earth! A huge brute — I'd say it’s
made from rock!’ You rush into the building and
Gnd the creature on the third floor. Your jaw drops.
indeed, it does seem to be made from rock rather
than living flesh, and it stands some four metres
high. Something has enraged it and it is destroying
everything in sight, pushing over huge shelves of
boaks and smashing tables and chairs. If you have
Super Strengik, turn to 378. If you have ETS, turn to
#2; If you have Psi-Powers, turn to 192. If you have
Energy Blast, turn to 363. If you don't think you can
handle this creature, you can leave by turning

to 319.
243-244

243
As the three Alchemists emerge from the bank, you
charge into them. Fight the three of them one atz
lime:

SKILL STAMINA
Thirst ALCHEMIST 8 6
Second ALCHEMIST 7 7
Third Al.CHEMIST 7 6

If you defeat them all, turn to 336-

244
The firemen get to work on cutting the doors away
to release the occupants, both of wham are injured
and suffering from shock. But the ambulance driv-
ers are in the middle of a heated argument about
who should pick up the patients! Meanwhile the fire
has spread to the tank. The explosion that follows
settles the ambulance drivers’ dispute. . . You step
back into a side-street, change costume and rehtum
lo work upstairs. Lose 1 Hero Point and turn to 398.

=

245

245
Lieutenant Wojak shakes your hand enthusiastical-
ty as you enter police headquarters. “Crusader! Fi!
Good to see you. Come into my office . . .’ He tells
you that, apart from the usual muggings, break-ins
and auto-thefts, he has just had some disturbing
news. There has been a well-organized jail break at
Woodworm Scrubs, the high-security prison. Mar-
cus Buletta, who was serving a fourteen-year sent-
ence, climbed over the wall with a rope-ladder and
escaped in a waiting van disguised as an ambu-
lance. Also, Central Hospital has just reported a
strange admission, someone named Winston
Woods, whose head and hands are rough and
hairy, like those of a great ape. Do you wish to
mvestigate the strange case at the hospital (turn to
290), will you go shopping (turn to 94), or will you
tell the police to keep you informed and go to visit
your aunt (turn to 134)?
246

246

You scan the minds of the peaple in the shop. They
are not lying; they know nothing about the kidnap-
ping. However, while you are there, the delivery-
boy comes up into the shop from downstairs. [fis
mind has a rather different aura about it. In fact, as
he arrives, his mind is not on his job. Heis thinking
of an important meeting. Reading his mind, youcan
picture a street corner: the sign reads ‘zogth Street’.
And a final image makes you glare hard at the boy-
The emblem of F.E.A.R. flashes up in his mind! But
what has such a youngster ta do with FEAR?
When he realizes what you are up to, he dashes out
into the street. You rush after him, but he is very
quick. Moments later, he has disappeared, leaving
you to puzzle over his thoughts. What will you do
now? If the millionaire is inside the runaway van,
you cannot hope to catch it — but you could phone
the details through to the police and hope that they
can track it down; then tum to 428. Otherwise
you can search for other clues outside the shop
(turn to 331).

247-249

247
You must now return to the Lab to fight however

many dogs remain. Turn to 120.

248

if you want to check some of the special attractions
of the Fun House, turn to 143. Alternatively, you
may know exactly where you want to look. [f this is
the case, you will know how to get there and you
may go there immediately.

Bi

249

You are powerless to prevent the aircraft taking off.
Cursing, you turn back to the airport: you can do
nothing but inform the authorities. But you are
aware that this will be of little use, as the jet will no
doubt have arranged some secret landing-field. You
catch a tai home. The driver has his radio on. As he
chats away, the radio splutters.and fizzles. The
music dies and an unscheduled announcement in-
terrupts the programme. Turn to 292.
250

BK

250
You enter the room and interrupt a struggle. Lok
Manche is punching and kicking her would-be kid-
napper, who is attempting to push her out of the
window to escape from the theatre! Judging by the
mess all around the dressing-room — clothes are
strewn about and jars of makeaup lie broken on the
floor—the struggle has been going on forsome time,
but the Serpent has almast succeeded im getting her
through the window. You must leap in quickly
before it is too late:

THE SERPENT

‘The Serpent has a powerful secret weapon — his
poisonous bite. Each time he hits you, roll one die.
A roll of 1 or 2 indicates a bite and the poison will
take effect. Deduct 1 $x11.1 point each time you are
bitten. However, the effects of the bite are only
temporary. You will recover your sk11.1. after one
full day. If you defeat the villain, turn io 432.

SKILLS STAMINAS

251-252

251
You hand the medallion to the officer whv places it
ima small plastic bay. “Seems to me like just another
mugging, he says. ‘But it’s very ee It hap-
pened in broad daylight and the guy’s wallet hasnt
even been touched. Anyway, thanks for your help.’
You leave the area, once you have changed into
your street clothes. Lurn to 18:1.

252
As you climb down inside the submarine, a noise
from within alerts you. It is the dull clanking of
metal on metal. But it sounds also like another
familiar sound. Foofsteps! You quickly climb dawn
inside and search for a convenient hiding-spot. The
door foa small chamber is open and you nip inside.
Moments later, you can hear the sound of more
footsteps and a human figure stops outside your
chamber. “Which numbskull left the door to the
ejection chamber open?” he says, spinning the
handle to lock you inside, Your heart sinks. The
ejection chamber? You are trapped. How will you
escape? You must try to use your power:

Super Strength Turn to 390
Psi-Powers Turn to 59
ETS Turn to 145
Energy Blast Turn to 6
253

253

The curator takes you round the stuffed exhibits.
Gorillas, rhinos, great cats, even a whale —they are
all there and you examine them with interest. Too
in particular catch your attention. One of the tigers
has dried bload on its claws, but there is no way of
knowing whether the blood is human or animal, or
even how long it has been there. Also, the curator
tells you that the elephant was moved into the
sround-floor private exhibit rooms yesterday for
cleaning. If you want to pursue vour investigations
with these exhibits, turn to 161. lf vou wish tohavea
look at the dinosaurs, turn to 345.

234-255

——54

254
At the gates, the security guard says he remembers
the car leave, but he didn’t see who was driving.
The car did indeed head towards Titan City centre.
But how will you track it down? You inform the
police to look out for its licence-plate number and
leave the Murdock Laboratories. ‘urn to 125.

ae
The Bolt misses. You do at have time to try another
shot, as the shark is dangerously near the young
boy. If you miss again, the boy is doomed, Wisely,
you decide to spring into the waterand grapple with
the shark. Turn to 294.
256

256
Quick as a flash, you spring into the shop ready for
action. Tt is a small sweets, candies and tobacco
shop. The proprietor, a Mr Kalvin Farquarson, is
standing behind the counter in a state of shock, his
head buried in his hands. You shake his shoulders
and tell him to pull himself together. He composes
nimself and stammers: ‘Terror! The little ter-

ror... ! Pulled a gun... grabbed everything on
the counter .. . and ran out through there!’ Tie

points through the shop to what is apparently the
back door. Will you race for the back door to stop the
thief before he can get away (turn to 24), or will you
grab something to use as cover first (turn to 101)?
257-258

257
Your wait is brief. The doctor comes downstairs in
his dressing-gown and wants to Know what you
want. You explain your clue and how you feel that
someone may be trying to steal his secrets. He is not
impressed and takes you into his study to show you
that nothing is amiss. Turn to 303,

258

You pick the assassin up by the collar and demand
to know who he is working for. He realizes that the
game is up and admits that he works for F-E-A-Ro
You threaten him with more punishment unless he
tells you the whereabouts of the meeting you know
is about to take place, but he swears he knows
nothing more than thatit is due to take place tomoz
row. Perhaps he is telling the truth. You hand him
over to the police and head for home. You have
saved the President's life and may award yourself 6
Hero Points. Turn to 311-

259-260

259

You try talking to the security guard, but itis no use,
The vault is over a metre thick and he cannot hear
you. While you are trying, however, you do find out
what has happened, The Alchemists, masters of
advanced chemistry, had neutralized the alarm
with some sort of acidic gas which delayed its being,
activated as they forced their way in. Another un-
sxnown compound had dissolved the security lock
on the main door. Why the security guard had not
noticed the intruders was still a mystery which
would only be solved when the time-lock released
him from the vault. You may, if you wish, try to
smash the vault door to release the guard. If you
have Energy Blas, turn to 183; otherwise turn to 5. If,
on the other hand, you see this as a futile exercise,
turn to 60.

260

You seem to be getting through to the demented
maniac. You try a different tack, telling him tv think
of his wife or his girl-friend, and how she will feel if
he crashes the plane. His anger rises! He switches
off the radio and you watch despairingly as the
plane lurches in the air and plummets down to-
wards the edge of the landing-field. Helplessly, you
watch the plane crash into the ground. There will be
no survivors. Lurn to 20.
261
You knock the Fire Warrior backwards. He lands
unconscious in a pile on the floor and his flames die
oul. Now you must go for the other three. As it takes
only a low-level Energy Bolt to Knock them out, you
may fire at each one. When you have hit two of
them, turn to 53.

262
‘The creature spies you and swings a great fist.
Resolve this battle:

THE DEVASTATOR SKILL14 STAMINAI2
If you win, tum to 119.
263

Do you wish to step into the crowd in street dothes

(turn to 99), at nip round a corner to change into the
Silver Crusader (turn to 191)?

264-265

264

The sales assistants are all demonstrating various
mechines ta other customers and you wander
sound looking at the racks of software. You take a
Spy of a “Whack Man‘ yariant and study the de-
Sctiption on the box. ‘I don’t rate that one mysell,’
Stysa2 voice behind you. You tum round. Itis Gerry
whe Grass! You must be careful not to give yourself
away, for he doesn't know you as Jean Lafayette.
You chat away to him and he tells you of his
Sobbies- computers, CB radio and amateur detec-
ave work. As he boasts of his interests, he gives you
some information, Apparently he has heard of a
plot to assassinate the President, who is due to
arrive m Titan City tomorrow on a visit. There syill
S< a decoy gunman in the crowd, but the real killer
will be on the roof of the Regent Hotel. Te tried to
sil the police, but they dismissed him as a crank.

With this information, you may apprehend the
gunman by adding 100 to the reference you are on
when you arrive on 7th Avenue and tuming to that

teference. You thank him for his advice on the game
and leave. Turn to 226.

265
Your blast hits the creature square in the chest. lt
tears . . -and then vanishes! Your jaw drops, What
is happening here? Likewise, the watching crowds
are completely baffled. Turn to 138.
266-267

266
A Chinaman jabbers at you as you walk in. “Yes,
yes, yes?” he asks. He is obviously in a hurry. Will
you push past him and look around the shop (turn
to 334), or do you havea password you would like tp
try on him (turn to 206)?

The firemen cut through the car door. When the
door is freed, you help bend it open and grab the
two passengers, pulling them to safety away from
the flaming car_ An instant later, the tank catches
fire and explodes, but all the onlookers are a safe
distance away. Not a particularly dramatic rescue,
but nevertheless you have helped save their lives.
Leaving them with the ambulance-men, you walk
away from the crowd to find a suitable hiding-place
and change into your street dothes, You may award
yourself 1 Hero Point for the rescue, before climbing
the stairs back to your office. Turn to 398.

268-269

268

You explain to the manager of the drug sture that
you are looking for clues which will help you locate
the Poisoner. He is happy to let you look round his
shop and investigate the storerooms downstairs,
But you can find no evidence of the Poisoner’s
presence. You thank the manager for his help and
eave. You have no leads to follow up. Turn to 107.

You grab the flask and hurl it out of the window.
This was not a good choice. First of all the flask was
hot and has severely burned your hand — lose 1
SKILL point. Secondly, the contents of the bottle
have splashed over passers-by on the ground be-
low. For this you must lose 2 Hero Points. Neverthe-
less, you have prevented the explosion. The Prafes-
sor thanks you for averting what could have been a
disaster. You leaye the building and head forhome.
Turn to 28.

270

270

At the mention of his name, your eyes fall on
Mustapha Kareem. He holds your gaze, then breaks
sway, nervously. You grab his shoulder and ask
him to answer a few questions. To the great surprise
of the curator, Kareem breaks free and rushes off
cownstairs into the vaults of the muscum, with you
hot in pursuit. You catch up with him in a dimly lit
toom in which several wooden crates stand,
Nareem is comered. Bul as you advance, a wicked
smile spreads across his lips. His skin beyins to
wither. His eyes become sunken pits in their sock-
ets. He stands before you as a Mismmy and raises his
arms as he comes towards you to attack. Ifyou have
cneryy Blast, turn to 170. If you have Stiper Strength,
sum to 10g. Otherwise, turn to 62.
271-272

274
With a miniature Sensor Scanner, you examine the
man‘s pocket for clues. The scanner indicates some
flakes of skin from a hand that was nol his own

Something strange is going on here! Turn to 143.

2
You fly into the air saa ce your fist into the
creature's jaw. It drops its victim into the water and
a red stain spreads around the body. You now have
a fight on your hands:

FOUNTAIN
CREATURE SKILL 10

When you inflict your fourth wound on the beast.
turn to 65.

STAMINA 21

273-274

273
Turn to 34.

274
You confront the villain in the Colonel's office. He is
startled to see you appear, and turns to face you.
‘Sol’ he smiles. ‘The Silver Crusader, as always,
fights on the side of what is gaod and just. Sicken-
ing. But perhaps that can be changed .. -’ What
tallows is a contest of will—yours against that of the
Macro Brain, who has similar powers. But the Mac-
to Brain has been waiting for this, He has not had
such a busy day, and his powerful mind begins to
prevail. You break out in a sweat from the exertion
and finally drop to your knees in submission. Bul
your foe has not finished yet. ‘Crusader,” he
announces, ‘for many years you have fought for
justice, From now on you will become servant to the
Macro Brain! You feel your will slipping. He has
overpowered you and is now implanting mental
Suggestions. Your struggles are to no ayail. No
longer will you be Titan City’s avenger against evil.
Instead you are destined to become a useful pawn to
the immense intelligence that is the Macro
so fe ie

273

You summon up your energy and try another Bolt.
Again the effortis tiring and you must lose another=
STAMINA points, But this time you manage to burn
through to the door-mechanism, and a metallic
clang sounds from within. The door swings slightly
ajar and you enter the vault. Deposit boxes are
strewn about the floor and in the centre, lying
spread-eagled, is the security guard. Blood trickles
fram a nasty gash on his forehead. This injury,
together swith the lack of fresh air in the vault, has
been tog much for him, As you kneel down beside
him, he is gasping his last breaths. Seeing you, he
whispers a few dying words, interrupted by
coughs, into your car: ‘Alchemists . - . Overheard
meeting plans . , - Big deal... Nervous. . . Fear

. Submarine... Ahhhhhh - . -’ His head falls to
one side: the man is dead. Tum to 60.

276
Where to now? You may want to visit the Titan
Central Library to do some research in their crimi-
nology section (turn to 242), or you could go to visit
Gerry the Grass (burn to 38),

277

Silenuy you climb the stairs. Four steps from the
top, your foot creaks on the old wooden board. The
voices upstairs fall silent. They have heard the
naise. Drat! Youlook up to see two sights, neither of
which is comforting. Above the stairs is a mirror.
The Mantrapper and his men have without doubt

277-278

noticed you. The second thing you see is a pipe
suspended over the stairs, its open end pointing
straight at you. As you watch it, a whiff of green
smoke puffs out of the pipe into your face. You
cough heavily. Another of the Mantrapper’s little
traps, no doubt — and one from which you will not
recover, as you take the poison yas into your lungs.
Your valiant attempt to save the millionaire has
been in vain.

278

the Cats” Home is not far from the Dairy. As if it
senses where it is going, the little animal squirms to
gct free. It fights and scratches in your grip. It seems
to be getting heavier! Suddenly a remarkable trans-
formation takes place. You drop the cat te the
ground and before your eyes it grows in size and
takes on a female human form, until it stands before
you as the Tiger Cat! Of ccmerse! This wicked she-
villain has a record of robbing dairies and fish
factories. Her tight, tiger-striped costume has sharp
claws at the hands and feet and she springs at you:

TIGER CAT
if you have J’si-Powers, turn to 413. If you have E1'S,

turn to 168. You have no time to use an Eneryy Bolt.
if you defeat the Tiger Cat, turn to. 124,

SKILLQ  STAMINAS
279-280

279
You fake unconsciousness and, seething inwardly,
let them take the money that they are after. A car
pulls up and they Icap inside, cursing about how
little they have taken. You memorize the number
the police can handle this one. Lose 2 STAMINA
points for the blow on the head, and turn to 76.

————_

280

Recently you have learned the tne identities of
several of the crime world’s most notorious super-
villains. The Tormentor has been identified es
Richard Storm, an uptown heating engineer. The
Ice Queen is none other than Sylvia Frost, society
débutante. And Marcus Buletta is known to be the
gruesome Dr Macabre, whose terrible experiments
in surgery have shocked the world. Buletta has been
planning a jail-break for months. When he does so.
he is likely to rob a chemist immediately for surgical
equipment and chemicals.

281-283

281
You sit down next to a kid listening to a Walkman
and borrow it to listen to the tape. It seems to be a
recording of a telephone conversation between a

man and a woman. The conversation ends; Don’t

worry. The treasures are being collected and re-
placed by our agent, Mustapha Kareem. We will
have them all soon. Remember, we meet the day
after tomorrow on board the yacht. Okay. Bye.’
interesting stuff. This Mustapha Kareem sounds
tke a dubious character. If you come across him,
you may question him about his activities by doubl-
mg the reference number you are on at the time and
turning to this new reference. Add 1 LUCK point for
discovering this message, and turn to 86.

282
There is no other course of action you can take but to
crapple with the berserk Android:
ANDROID SKILLG STAMINA1

After the second round of combat, turn to 335.

283

You jump over the counter and quickly change
costume. When you step forwards as the Silver
Crusader, the Fire Warriors stop in their tracks. You
wat them and order them to give themselves up.
But your words are wasted. One of them lunges for
you and you will have to release an Energy Bolt. If
you hit, turn to 261. If you miss, turn to 200,
4%

32!
ge:

">

<. ear inet.

2 ae
ABE G
ahine:
= h

sane -—--

TE CRALY
aS

<==
sm = SBA GEL

am

=

snes

vr

284

284

You quickly change into the Silver Crusader and
rush to the Peter Laboratories. ltis near the centre of
town, annexed to the nuclear physics department of
the university. When you arrive, you are sent
Straight upstairs to the third floor, but tald to be
careful. A group of students and professors are
huddled by the stairs. You are told what has hap-
pened. Four Alsatian dogs which were being used
in dangerous radiation experiments have escaped
from their cages. They are locked in a room down
the corridor and are barking wildly. Althouyh they
should not be radioactive to the touch, their bite
could be lethal, should their saliva enter an open
cut.

if yousurvive this episode, you may award yourself
t Hera Point for each of the dags you capture, but
you must deduct 1 Hero Point for each person who
is bitten by a dog- If you have:

Ce at hh lee SS

Sr,

_
—

ETS ‘Turn lo 328
Enervy Blast Turn to 306
Ps7-Powers ‘Turn to 105
Super Strength Turn to 237
285-287

285
You watch from the control tower as the Tormentor
steps out of the plane and gives himself up to the
police, who are waiting on the runway. The Ar-
Traffic Controller thanks you for your help, and you
leave, You may add 2 Hero Points. Turn to 10.

286

You grab the unconscious thief and pull him out
from behind the boxes. As he slides out into the
daylight, you gulp. This little villain can be no more
than nine years old! You may well have hurt him
badly! In his right hand he clutches his booty — 2
half-eaten Goo Bar. Desperately, you shake him,

and eventually his eyes flick open. He is terrified to
see you and you scow! at him sternly. But secretly
you are relieved that he is not seriously hurt. You
pick him up and march inside the shop. Turn to 316.

287

You first of all try to latch on to the mind of the
arch-criminal you know to be inside the brown
cloud. This is difficult, but you do find out one
thing. He has been taking pictures of the doctor's
notes with a radio camera and the photographs
have already been sent to the headquarters of
F.E.A.R.! Then you concentrate hard, trying to alter
the air molecules around the gas to imprison the
villain. But itis no use. You have failed to prevent
important secrets from reaching the eyes of
F,E.A.R. Turn to 162.

288-290

288

You push the door open and step into an untidy
dressing-room. Clothes are strewn about the floor
and jars of make-up lic open on the dressing-table i in
front of the mirror, But otherwise the room is emp-
ty. You search through the mess for a clue to the
Serpent's whereabouts, but find nothing. Do you
want to try room number one (turn to 322) or room
number three (turn to 117) instead?

289

As you enter the park, you pick up sounds of a
commotion and follow it toa crowd grouped around
2 body. Police are trying to move the crowd on. Will
you push through to see what is happening (turn
to $34), or change into the Silver Crusader (turn
to 104)?

290

Are you anticipating this meeting? If so, you will
know what time you ought to arrive to catch the
meeting in progress. Add this time to today’s date
(do you know what this is?) and turn to the refer-
ence corresponding to this number. If the resulting
reference makes no sense, turn to 368.

291-292

291

‘Escaped animals?’ she asks. ‘Idon’t finkany of our
animals have escaped. But I'll just check for you, if
you like.’ She picks up a land-line telephone and
cranks a handle. “Hello, Mario? This is Nancy.
Someone here wants to know whether any animals
have escaped .. . Na, I didn’t think so. Thanks.
Bye.” She shakes her head and you leave. Where
will you try now? You can try the zoo (turn to 408) or
the Natural History Museum (tur to 365)-

292

Asteely yoice with a sinister tone speaks slowly and
clearly: ‘Citizens of the world, ‘itannounces, ‘do nat
attempt to retune your receivers. This message is
being broacicast on all frequencies simultaneously
in all languages to all areas of the globe. My nameis
Vladimir Utoshski. | am Known as the Titanium
Cyborg, My organization is known to you as the
Federation of Euro-American Rebels. My messegeis
this. We have taken control of the “Star Wars”
satellite which orbits the earth. We demand the
unconditional surrender of all your governments
and military establishments and the submission of
all citizens to vur leadership. Any resistance will be
dealt with harshly. Our satellite will obliterate, one
by one, the major cities of the earth. As proof of our
power, Titan City will be exterminated in exactly
thirty seconds ..." Your heart sinks. You have
failed to stop the fateful meeting of F-E.A-R. The
whole world must now pay the penalty .

293

293
You sneak away from the waiting crowd, change

costume and make for home. You have had an
exhausting day and you slump in front of the TV
with a long, cold drink, You may add 6 STAMINA
points for the rest. The next moming you leave for
work early. You catch a bus, but to refresh yourself
before work, § you get off and walk the last half of the
journey. Typical: a5 soon as you get off the bus, it
starts to rain! You begin to run butslow down when
you armye at Cowfield Dairy. Something is not quite
nght. Do vou wish to investigate (turn to 369), or are
you already on your way to somewhere more im-
portant? If so, you will know how to get there.

294295
294

With a tremendous splashing, the ightcommences:

RIPPER SHARK

When the shark has inflicted its fourth wound on
you, turn to 95. If you defeat the shark before it has
inflicted four wounds, turn to 197.

SKILL 10 STAMINAS

295
From your Accessory Belt you draw an Absolute

Zero Flask. Quickly, you step over to the experi-
ment and bring the flask up ta surround the bottle.
Moments later, the danger is over. The liquid in the
botile has frozen, and will do no further harm. The
Professor thanks you for saving the lives of every-
one in the building. You may add 1 Hero Point. You
leave and make for home. Turn to 28.

296-297

296

You go through the man’s pockets to retrieve the
wallet. He is carrying some peculiar things, no
doubt the pickings of his trade. Along with the
wallet, you find a cigarette packet which contains a
crumpled piece of paper, a tape cassette and a map.
Sefore handing the pickpocket over to a security
suard on the train, you manage to take one of these
from him. Which did you take? The cigarette packet
(turn to 423), the cassette tape (tum to 281) or the
map (turn to 20)?

297
You will have to do battle with the lions. If you can
defeat them, the Ringmaster will give himself up:

First LION STAMINAG
Second LION STAMINAS

Fight them one at a time. If you defeat them both,
turn f0 $33.

SKILLS
SKUL1.7

298

298

You burst through the door into a smake-filled
room. Six startled faces wheel round to stare at you
fom their seats around a conference table. You
recognize them all as agents of F.E.A.R. At the head
of the table sits a man whose face you could never
forget. The bald head, pointed nose and ecye-
goggles belong to Vladimir Utoshski, leader of
F.E_A-R. He rises to his feet and speaks: ‘So! ‘I'he
Silver Crusader honours us with a visit. Could it be
that you wish to join us? | think not. My friends, |
will show you how F.E.A.R. must deal with its
enemies. This puny specimen is no match for the
Titanium Cyborg! The  half-human, _half-
mechanical man steps towards you, his two clectro-
essisted arms ready to attack. A glowing light pulses
in the gogeles he uses for eyes. Do you have a
Circuit Jammer with you? If so, turn to 159. If not,
you will have to fight the leader of F_E.A.R.:

TITANIUM CYBORG skit118 STAMENA 2D
After the third round of combat, tum to 136.
299-300

299

You rush to the edge of the water and search the
surface for the tell-tale fin of a shark. Thirty metres
out from the shore, you spot it. A monster! Swim-
ming in towards the beach is a huge ipper shark! It
is heading straight fora young boy whois sill on his
way back to the beach. What a nuisance! You could
easily have seen the shark off with your Omni-
directional Electrifier. But with the boy in the way,
you cannol risk using it, You will have to plunge
into the water and tackle the shark with your bare
hands. Turn to 294.

300

As you step up to Epiphany’s window, you notice 2
familiar figure taking an unhealthy interest in the
diamond rings — Porcelain Percy, so called because
his punishment for once betraying a former boss
was to have all his teeth filed down to the gums and
they all had to be built up with porcelain caps. He
stands aside nervously as you step up to the win-
dow. You play with him a little. Did he not have
something to do with the smash-and-grab at De
Lager‘s jeweller’s last week? Wasn’t he seen talking
to Timmy the Tongue? Maybe it would be better for
all if you were to just hand him over to Big Ben and
the Slicer; it would save the police 2 lot of effort - -
Porcelain Percy starts to sweat profusely and agrees
to vive you some information if vou will just forget
you have even seen him. Apparently he knows that
the Poisoner has plans which threaten the lives ofall
the inhabitants of Titan City. He also tells you more

300 — 301

sbout what the Poisoner’s plans are. If you find
yourself searching for the Poisoner, deduct 30 from
the reference you are on when you are given the
opportunity, and turn to this new reference, You
may add 1 Lucx point for this information. Then
you allow the skinny little man to go home. The rest
of the evening is uneventful and you get a good
night’s rest. You may add 6 sTAMINA points. Turn

= 327.

301

‘Lafayette! Get in here at once!’ No sooner had you
stepped through the office door than Jonah Whyte’s
booming voice summoned you. You creep into his
office, mumbling scanty excuses for being late yet
again. ‘Enough’ he yells. ‘What do you think we are
running here? A charity? Do you suppose I should
be grateful that you even grace us with your pres-
ence? Very noble of you indeed to even bother

coming in at all! Well, | tell you what. I'm feeling

kind today. You can have the rest of the day off.
Without pay! And if you're not in first thing tomor-
tow morning, you can start looking for another job!’
You slink out of his office with your tail between
your legs. Tow can you tell him what you've been
doing? And now you've been suspended for a day.
Where will you go? Will you spend the day at
Wisneyland, the amusement park (turn to 15), or
will you avoid all contact with the outside world and
go home to make sure you get an early start in the
morming (furn to 218)?
302-303

302
After a brief snack, they get up and leave the diner.
You overheard part of their conversation, but the
heated discussions were no more than arguments
about the likely results of tomorrow’‘s horse-races.
You are wasting your time. You leave the diner and
catch a cab. Tum to 368.

393
‘There, you see!’ says the doctor as you enter the

study. “Allisin order. JustasIleftit.” But you are not
listening. Your attention has been caught by a dark
whisp of brown smoke that is passing out of the
window through the air-conditioner. You race
quickly outside. Turn to 29,

394-395

304
You prepare to use Eneryy Blast on the Android, but

decide that you cannot risk it with so many innocent
people about. What can you do agains! the creature?
The answer comes froma man in the crowd who has
been watching the demonstration. ‘Try this,’ he
shouts, throwing you 2 small pen-like device. ‘The
demonstrator was asked what happens if the
Android becomes uncontrollable and showed us
this. He called it a “Circuit Jammer’ or something.
Maybe it will help,” You catch the device and hold it
to the Android. Sure enough, the little gadget lives
up to its name and the movements of the Android
cease. You may add 4 Hera Points for defeating the
Android and you may also take the strange little
device with you. Having seen enough of the exhibi-
ton, you decide to leave Whirl’s Court. Turn to 75.

The police officers help you over to a bench. You
overhear their conyersation: ‘Ugly incident in Au-
dubon, seems like. Throat slashed. Made a mess of
the path - - " The other replies, ‘Yeah. And Cleve
fand Bank. They reckon that was the Alchemists.
Glad I wasn’t the night-watchman when they came
in! The two nod in agreement. ‘Looks like things
are hotting up,” says the first, as they walk back to
their yellow and black car. What will you do now?
You could walk into Audubon Park to see what they
were talking about (turn to 165), buy a paper to see if
you can pick up any news on the robbery (turn to
228), or go to work (turn to 341).
306-307

306
You may use Energy Blast against the dogs only in
the confines of the Lab, If a dog escapes into the
crowd, you dare not risk using it. Turn to 237-

397

What can you do to help the swimmers? An Energy
Bolt would melt the ice around them, but you
cannot risk hitting the girls. However, you could
aim a Bolt in a ring around them, This will cost you 4
STAMINA points, as it will have to be a prolonged
effort. If you decide to help them, you can add =
Hera Points. If you don’t want to depicte your
STAMINA, you must lose 2 Hero Points and face the
boos of the onlookers as you walk away- Turn to 362
to leave,

308

303

Using your mental powers, you search quickly
through the passengers, A burly man with wide
shoulders catches your attention. You make contact
with him and will him towards the cockpit to take on
the Tormentor. He shakes his head and stares into
the distance as he listens to your message. Suddenly
he springs up from his seat. ‘Hallelujak!" he cries. ‘T
have received the word of the Lord! I must rid us of
this unbeliever. My mission has been sent from
above! Your heart sinks. Just what you needed — a
rehious fanatic who thinks your message is some
sort of divine omen. In your mind’s eye you watch
as he stomps forwards up the aisle towards the
cockpit, giving the Tormentor full warning of his
approach. The villain throws the joystick forwards
and sends the plane into a deep dive. Unconcerned
about his own life, he has made sure that his plan
will succeed. Moments later, the plane crashes to
the ground, killing all on board. Your plan has
failed. You leave the airpart. Turn to 10.

309-310

309
You wail amdously for the Alchemists to emerge

from the bank. Passers-by ate not aware of what is
happening, but you manage to prevent any from
enteriny: while the robbery in in progress. However,
you cannot avoid the curiosity of the public One
sinall boy strains on his mother’s arm and yells out
‘Mommy, look! It’s the Silver Crusader! Can Task for
an autograph, mommy? Please, mommy, can I?
You try to hush him up, but only manage to annoy
his mother. Unaware of the situation, she thinks
you are extremely rude. Have the boy‘s cries alerted
the Alchemists? Test your Luck. lf you are Lucky,
turn to 128. If you are Unlucky, turn to 255.

10

There are Gvo lions inside the cage. They are lying
contentedly on the floor, licking their pawsas if they
had just finished a meal. But there are no signs uf
meat in the cage. Several metres from the cage is an
elephant tied to a stake. These beasts could well be
the killers, but what evidence do you have? Do you
want to arrest the lion-tamer and take him to police
headquarters (turn to 383), or will you try to gather
more evidence (turn to 45). If you have Pst-Powers,
turn to 321.

311-312

31

You set off home to take some well-deserved rest.
The prospect of the F-E.A.R- meeting is weighing
heavily on your mind, but for the moment you are
well advised to relax for the evening. You may gain
6 STAMINA points for taking it easy. Next morning,
you are woken, not by the alarm clock, but by your
Crimewatch: beer — teep — teep- This tirne the mes-
sage is longer than normal and it repeats itself:
‘RELIABLE INFORMATION. FEAR MEETING TO-
DAY. WHEREABOUTS UNKNOWN!’ You spring out
of bed. Today! Do you have any clues as to where the
meeting is? Where will you go:

Parker Airport? Turn to 349
Stay in town? Turn to 70
Head towards the waterfront? Turn to 290

312

The President is due to pay a visil to ‘Titan City.
Rumours are going round that an attempt will be
made on his life when he arrives. lt would be wise to
find out how this attempt will be made. Both Mar-
cus Buletta and Rat-lace Flanagan know how the
attempt will be made.
333

ao +17 4—- 313

| ri nS <= AS you are about to enter the drug store, you hear
ee Pe BIER TT screams from inside, You nip into a storeroom and
4 Fi, , r eee change into the Silver Crusader to investigate the

== i = 7; . r t =
Sy disturbance. When you rush into the shop, you see
ovo figures rummaging through the pharmaceutic-
al shelves, while a crowd of terrified onlookers are

held at bay by another. You recognize him as Dr
Macabre, the mad surgeon whose brilliant experi-
ments in transplant surgery were outlawed by a
world not yet ready for the advances he had made.
His two henchmen are the results of his work, One
has four arms and is snatching bottles trom the
shelves with them. The other has the head ofa tiger
and is terrorizing the shop staff with his sharp teeth.
You leap into action. If you have ETS, tum to 325. If
you have Psj-Powers, turn to 173. If you have Super
Streugik, turn to 78. Lf you have Energy Blast, turn
to) 142.

3374-315

314
You race out of the vaults and back upstairs where
vou tell the curator what has happened and leave
the affair in his hands. You must deduct 2 Hero
Points for leaving prematurely. Turn to 276.

315
You fly up in the air and come down with a mighty
thump in the creature’s chest. The blow svinds it and
it temporarily releases the girders and turns ils
attention to you. Resolve this battle:

CREATURE OF
CARNAGE
If you defeat the Creature of Camage, fim to 132-

SKILL1i2 STAMINA 14

316-317

316

After giving the young boy an earful, you send him
on his way. Then you turn to the shopkeeper, You
ate furious! You had thought that this was a serious
robbery, not merely a youngster 5 prank to steal a
bar of candy. The cowardly shopkeeper has wasted
your fme. You may gain no Hero Points for this
capture, but you must fose 1 Hero Point if you
Knocked ouf the young thief. In fact, if you did
knock him out, you had better get moving quickly
before any of the passers-by find out what has
happened. This is just the sort of thing that your
cniics would pick up on. Will vou leave quickly
(turn to 438), or would vou like to give the shop-
Keeper a piece of your mind first (turn to 64)?

317
The naval dockyard is a dismal place. In dock at the
moment are three boats you can investigate; a small
PT boat (turn to 417), an ageing submarine (turn to
252) and a battleship which is being painted (turn
to 96).
318-319

318

This has been a particularly savage murder. The
man’s throat has been slashed with a nonetoc-
sharp blade. His wallet contains his business cards,
which identify him as Wayne Bruce, President of
Euro-American Security Inc. Also in his wallet is 2
photograph af an attractive blonde woman with
dark eyes. One thing puzzles you. His wallet has
not been touched! Certainly robbery was not the
molive of this apparently normal mugging. Do you
wish to head for the offices of Euro-American Secur-
ity Inc. (turn to 233), will you visit his home to talk to
his wife (turn to 195), or will you leave this cimem
the hands of the police (turn to 73)?

319
You had better avoid any more super exploits for 2
while. Do you want to pay a visit to your elderly
aunt’s house (turn to 134), or will you go downtown
lo police headquarters to check that you are not
required for any other duties (turn to 245)?

320-322

320

Using Energy Blast will be dangerous, as a miss
could cause the vial of poison to fall into the inlet.
Will you risk it? If so, turn to 150. If nut, turn to 2s.

You approach the lion-tamer and exchange a few
pleasantries. But while you keep up the conversa-
bon, you are also probing his mind for signs of any
link between the attacks and the animals. But you
cannot find any. If vou wish to arrest the lion-tamer
anyway, turn to 383. If you leave the ciraus, tum

ta 148,

Evidently this is the theatre’s most luxurious
dressing-room, normally used by the stars. Elegant
drapes line the walls, and a border of lights sur-
rounds the mirror. But it is untouched, It looks as
though it has not been used for weeks. There is
nathing for you to find here. Will you try room
number two (furn to 288) or room number three
(farm to 127)?
323-344

323
The Chief Detective is contemptuous about super-

heroes, In his eyes, fighting crime is a job for the
police, not for what he calls “amateur detectives’.
Nevertheless, you do find some information about
the event. The Alchemists, masters of advanced
chemistry, had neutralized the alarm with some sort
of acidic yas which delayed its being activated as
they forced their way in. Another unknown com-
pound had dissolved the security lock on the main
door. Why the security guard had not noticed the
intruders was still a mystery which would only be
solved when the time-lock released him from the
vault. But now he assures you that the situation is
well under control in his hands. There is no need for
any “amateur in fancy pants’ to getinvolved. Tum to

You emerge from the alley into a crowded street and
look left and right. Damn! You cannot see him. You
run a few paces along the strect to search for any
sims of him, but it is hopeless. He has escaped.
Turn to 75.

325
You have nothing you can use that will be especially
effective against them. Turn to 73.

326

You concentrate first on the creature's mind.
Nothing happens. You are not sure that it even fas
one. Then you try a different approach. You svill the
water to heat, It starts to steam and the greal crva-
ture feels the heat. It roars loudly and drops its
victim into the fountain. The woman is unconscious
and bleeding badly. You must return the water to
normal temperature straight away, After doing this,
you face the creature:

FOUNTAIN
CREATURE

When you inflict vour fourth hil on the creature,
Turn to 65-

SKILL IO STAMINA.
327

327
Next morning you leave for work early. You are

sorely tempted to leave your Crimewatch behind;
vou dare not miss another day’s work! But your
fears are unwarranted. To your utter amazement,
your Crimewatch is silent. You arrive at wark early.
Jonah Whyte cannot believe his eves when he enters
the office to find you hard at work at your desk. At
lunch-time you catch up on the day’s news on the
teletext TV. Two stories catch your attention. Oneis
of a strange attack in Audubon Park. A woman has
been seriously mauled by what she calls ‘a monster’,
buta specialist at the hospital thinks the claw-marks
of an animal of some kind. The second story is of a
man who had his chest crushed in the grounds of
the Natural History Museum. There are no clues as
to who or what was responsible. It is as if whatever
caused the man’s death simply walked aw ay. Both
incidents are being investigated by the police, You
decide to do a little investigation of your own. You
change into the Silver Crusader and set off to make
your inquiries. Where will you head first:

The Natural Plistory Museum? Turn to 365
Titan Zoo? Turn to 408
Warnum and Wailey’s Travelling

Circus? ‘Turn to 4
328-329

328

From your belt, you take a small rod the size of 2
penal. It extencls telescopically like a car aerial. This
is a Radiation Neutralization Wand. In the battle
that will follow, each time you score a hit, you have
louched the dog with the wand and the effects of its
radigactivity are neutralized. However, the dog can
—and will — still fight, so you still have to defeat it.
And if any dag bites a bystander, you will stilllosea
Hero Point, even if it has been touched with your
wand. But a neutralized dog will not be able to hill
you with a single attack unless this attack has re-
duced your STAMINA Lo zero. Lurn to 237.

329
You change trains and head for home. Are you
wasting your time? After all, it's only a scrap of
paper. How can you tell your boss that you were late
for work because you wanted to check out a little
piece of paper that you found in a cigaretle packet?
Nevertheless, you take il into your study, enter the
words as they are written, and Iet your computer irr
to make some sense of them. Ten minutes later, it
has printed three possible messages: “Call the egg.

329 — 330

You're wet behind the ears’; ‘My newspaper is
covered in plastic nodules’; and ‘Idiot. Fear meeting
address 176, not 178. Don’t forget.’ Interesting stuff,
by now itis much too late to go to work. You spend
the next hour working on a batch of phenolic acid.
When itis ready you pour some ina vial and place it
im your Accessory Belt to take with you. Will you
now spend the rest of the day at the Wisneyland
Amusement Park (turn to 15), or will you go down-
town, perhaps to do some shopping (turn to 202}?

330

You aim an Energy Bolt at the tail of the plane as it
rounds the corner on to the runway. But your aim is
not accurate. The plane takes off into the sky. Tur
to 249.

331-337

33
Outside you find a single clue to the Kidnapping —2
metal slug with the letter M engraved in it. If this
means anything to you, you will know how you can
investigate it. Othenvise you have come to a dead
end. You may sive your information to the police
and let Lhem take over, Tum to 428.

332
You draw a Micronet from your Accessory Belt and
cast it over the creature. The tough fibres tanyle its
limbs, but it is not strang enough to hold for ‘long.
Turn to 373 to fight the Reincarnation, but deduct 5
points from its sKiLt for the first six rounds of
combat,

333-334

333

You pick up the piece of paper that he was trying to
destroy. lt bears the emblem of F_E_A.R-! The mes-
Sage ts short: ‘Do not forget. The meeting starts at
ga.m.’ Unfortunately, it bears no more information,
but this time could be useful to you. You carry the
Scarlet Prankster down to the ground and hand him
over to the police, You may add 3 Hero Points for
capturing him. Now turn to 103.

334
You push past him and step into the back of the

shop. He swats at you ineffectually from behind.
You sweep aside a pair of curtains separating the
front of the shop from the back. Four yellow faces
look up at you from steamy wash-bowls, There
seems to be nothing unusual here. Would you like
to ry Chomsky’s upstairs (turn to 44), or will vou
step back out to the street (turn to 368}?

335-337

335
Although seemingly a harmless domestic servant,

Viadimir Utoshski has made this particular Android
specially ta serve F.E.A.R. Apart from a “Destmic-
tion’ switch in its back which turns it into a creator of
mayhem, it is armed with a deadly weapon — 2
Poisonous dagger which it can make protrude from
its ight foot. A kick from this footis certain death, 2
fact which you have just discovered. As the fast-
acting poison takes effect, you can almost hear the
leader of F.E.A.R. laughing. There is now nothing
to prevent his meeting from taking place . - .

—™
~-_ ee |
= ae

336
For capturing the Alchemists you may score 4 Hero
Points. Such a waste, you think, that such brilliant
minds should be used for criminal gain. If only they
could be persuaded to devote themselves to
academic research for the good of sodety. Turn now

lo 372.

337
You spend a quict evening reading a good book and
have a hearty home-cooked meal. Add 6 STAMINA
points and turn to 79.

338-340

You rush out across the ice and begin hammering
the surface around the girls with your fists. But it is
no use; the ice is a metre thick. Head bowed, you
mustadmit defeat. Thereis nothing you can do. ‘he
onlookers sneer at you as you leave the pool to try to
phone someone who can help. You know what they
must be thinking. What use have you been? You
must lose 2 Flero Points for your failure. ‘hen you
can leave the pool by turning to 362.

339
What will you do to prevent the bottle exploding?
Will you throw it out of the window (turn to 269),
smother it with your hands {turn to 426), or rush off
to look for a fire-extinguisher (turn te 8g)?

340
You take your vial of phenolic acid and hurl it at the
creature. Roll two dice and compare the total with
your skits. score, [f you roll a number sigher than
yOur SKILL, you have missed and you will have to
take on the Devastator with your bare hands (turn to
262). Lf the roll is equal fo or fess than your SKULL, tum

to 69.
341

341
Late again . . - You creep past the office of your
boss, Jonah Whyte, hoping he will not notice. But
no such luck. His yoice booms out at you: ‘Lafayette!
In my office. Immediately!’ Sheepishly, you leave
your desk and creepin to see him. A stream of abuse
follows. In his eyes you are lazy, shiftless, incompe-
tent. . - Suddenly a squeal of tyres in the street
below, followed by a loud crash, interrupts him and
the fvo of you mush to the window. A crowd is
gathering around a large black limousine which has
spun round in the road, mounted the sidewalk and
ctashed into a strect-lamp. A fire has started in the
rear of the car and is spreading. Do you wish to run
downstairs in your street clothes (turn to 102}, ornip
into the toilet to change into the Silver Crusader
\(furn to 23)? Alternatively you may ignore the in-
cident and go back to work (turn to 167),
342

342
You artive at the army base and are escorted to see
Colonel Saunders, who greets you with a warm
handshake. ‘Crusader!’ he smiles. ‘Well, this is an
honour. What can we do for you?" You explain you
have come ta compare notes on the activities of
F.E.A.R. ‘So far,’ Saunders starts, ‘we have come up
with nothing. Like you, we have heard thal a top-
level meeting is imminent and if we are to prevent
their villainqus escapades, swe must capture their
leader, Vladimir Utashski, before the meeting can
take place. They are powerful, Crusader, and ruth-
less, You can count on all the help we can give you~
Suddenly an aide bursts into the room. ‘Sir! he
pants. ‘Helicopters! Identity unknown! Coming to-
wards the base at four o'clock!’ The Colonel! leaps
into action. ‘Contact them on the radio. If they will
not identify themselves, we will open fire.” If you
have Super Strength, you fly out to investigate (frm
to 379). Otherwise, turn to 58.

343-344

343
Allis quiet at the reactor, apart from endless tramp-

ing of the numerous armed security guards who
have been positioned to guard it. There is no sign of
Knox. You wait for half an hour, but still nothing
happens. Suddenly a klaxon sounds and men and
women rush to their positions. The cooling-system,
which was checked thoroughly an hour ago, is
malfunctioning. The reactor is overloading! You
rush round to the other side of the reactor and, in
front of you, you see the cause. Sidney Knox, his
head bloated like a pumpkin, is staring at the struc-
ture. Guards are aiming their weapons at him, but
no one has given the order to fire. ‘They breathe a
sigh of relief when they see you, and look to you for
guidance. If you have Super Strength, turn to 33. [f
you have Energy Blast, turn t 204. If you have
Psi-Powers, turn to 419. If you have E!’S, turn to 80.

344

You send a carefully charged Energy Bolt in the
direction of the boxes. It strikes the bottom box
(there is no need to test for aim) and the whole pile
topples over backwards on top of the thief. A shrill
scfeéam comes from the villain. The foot twitches
and then rests motionless. You step over cautiously
to investigate. Turn to 286.
345-346

>

The dinosaur exhibits are very realistic, but the
curator merely laughs when you suggest the possi-
bility of one of them being responsible for the man’s
death. ‘Apart from the fact that these creatures have
been dead for several million years,’ he chuckles,
‘how on earth would you suggest they got out of the
building? Through the doors? One of these brutes
would take the side of the museum with it if it
decided to go and look for another hame! No, i
you‘te looking for clues to the murder, l suggest vou
try lilan zoo. You'll have better buck there You feel
a little foolish for ewen making the suggestion. Ifyou
want lo try the zoo, turn to 408. Otherwise turn
to 148-

346

While the struggle is fought, the aircraft falls into a
steep dive. Your last blow fells your foe. As he
slumps to the floor, you grab the controls of the
plummeting aircraft and shout for the stewardess.
She arrives and is able to untie the pilots. In the nick
of time they take over from you and are able to guide
the plane down to a safe landing. Turn to 35.

347-349

347
The heating engineer shows you round the plant.

He is mystified as to what happened; there is
nothing wrong with the heating-equipment. You
double-check the controls and scratch your head.
Nothing wrong there. Perhaps no one will ever
know what caused the incident, but at least the
danger is now over. Turn to 362.

348
Your powers reveal that she is telling the truth, The
murderer will remain a mystery. Turn to 73.

349

Everything is normal at the airport as you arrive.
You do not want to cause any panic, so you change
into your street clothes and proceed with your plan.

You may head for one of the three hangars to look
for ches. Xavier Hangaris where private and execu-
mve jets are kept. Summers Hangar houses
emergency helicopters. McCoy Hangar is for cargo
aircraft. Which will you investigate:

Xavier Hangar? Turn to 394
Summers Hangar? Turn to 46
McCoy Hangar? Turn to 115
350-352

350

You are congratulated by the crowd for having
averted what could haye been a disaster. Note the
Hero Points that you have scored, deducting 1 point
from the original 4 for each bystander that was
bitten by a dog. As you leave the University, 2
crowd of autograph hunters has gathered outside.
Will you slip out the back way to avoid them and
make for home (turn to 293), or oblige by stepping
out to face the crowd (turn to 397)?

354
You change into your street clothes and sit down in

the diner, hoping to notice something suspicious.
An hour, and several cups of coffee, later, agroup of
shiffy-looking characters enter and sit down at 4
table. Turn to 302.

352
You will need two Energy Bolts to stop the creature.
{f you do not wish to risk using two Bolts, turn t0373
to finish off the fight hand to hand. If your first Bolt
was a hit, you may reduce its STAMINA by 6 points.
Tum to 239 if you win.

353-354

353
You rush off to find police officers or stadium ol-

ficials who might be able to help you. Your first
priority must be to organize an eyacuation of the
west stand. But your plans are futile, as you realize
when you heara great crashing coming from behind
you. The stand is down! The Creature of Carnage
stands in the centre of the wreckage, roaring loudly,
People, dead and dying, surround him. He turns to
goand there is nothing you can do tostop him. Your
first duty is to aid the injured people around him.
When you have done what you can, urn to 40,

354
Luckily, the other fvo are nol armed with chemical

weapons. Fight them one at a time;

Second ALCHEMIST
Third ALCHEMIST

SKILL?
SKILI.7

STAMINA
STAMINAS

If you defeat them, tum to 336,
355

355
There must be something he’d like. No doubt he’s

already got Monopoly. What about this; Trivial
Pursuit? Looks interesting, Or how about
Dungeons & Dragons? Hmm. He probably hasn't
sot the imagination. As you are perusing the sames,
four bikers walk in in ripped jeans and dirty leather
jackets. Trouble. You watch them from the corner of
your eve. They are in the women’s undenvear
department and are holding bras up to their chests
and faughing. A middle-aged woman comes over lo
stop them and an assistant manager sleps in tu help.
Tempers rise. Just when you are wondering
whether or not to join in, one of the bikers throws
his jacket to the floor. He clasps his hands together
and to the horror of the unsuspecting floor staff, he
bursts into flames! The others do likewise and four
tlaming bodies stomp about the shop, setting fire ta
everything they touch. The Fire Warriors! Of
course! Why did you not recognize those no-giod
delinquents earlier? You had better act quickly. 1
you have Super Strength, turn to 133. lf you have
Psi-Powers, tur to 178. Ifyou have ETS, turn to 156.
lf you have Enersy Blast, turn to 283.
356-357

356
You emerge from the alley into a crowded street and
loak left and right. Damn! You cannot see him. You
run a few paces along the street to search for any
signs af him, but it is hopeless. He has escaped.
Turh to 75.

357
To the beat of loud disco music, cars are drcling

round the track bashing into one another and caus:
ing hoots of laughter for their drivers. Yourown car,
Blue 7, scems to be a little slower than the rest, but
younevertheless zeta couple of satisfying head-ons
before your eyes catch sight of the danger .-. A
young boy driving Red 14 is smashed in the side by
Yellaw 4. The collision knocks him sideways and
out of his car on to the metal mat of the track in front
of you. The driver of Purple 10, who was just lining
up a head-on collision with you, screams and
throws her hands up in the air as she sees the
danger. The boy is lying right between your Gwo
cars! How quick are your reactions? Can you avert
the collision about to crush the boy? Rall two dice
and compare the total with your SKILL score. If the
lotal exceeds your SKILL, turn to 388. Otherwise turn
te> 234.

358-359

358
The exhausted mutant falls to his knees. Though

you too have been tired by the strain, you have not
finished yet. By sheer force of mind, you will him to
repair the leaks to the system. One by one the leaks
begin to close. Eventually the klaxon stops sound-
ing. [he dangeris over! You may gain 2 Hero Points
for your success. In appreciation of your saving the
Laboratory, the scientists bring you a small pen-like
device. “Crusader, take this as a gift from us,” pleads
the Institute Director. ‘One of ourmen madeitin his
spare time. Hecalis ita “Circuitjammer’-Itis still to
be fully tested, but seems to work okay, [know you
often face mechanical villains and their contrap-
tions. With this, you will be able to disable their
Circuits. You are looking for Vladimir Utoshski and
he is a powerful adversary. With this you will stand
a better chance.” You thank the Director for his gift.
It may well come in handy. Now turn fo 125,

359
You temporarily release your grip on him and he

manages to shove you aside, just as the President's
car draws past. He aims the gun and shoots! The
President falls! You leap on him again to finish off
the battle (he was SKILL 7, STAMINA 6). If you
defeat him, turn to 374.
360

360

You crouch down undemeath the lion cage. Sure
enough, at the far end is a trapdoor leading up to
one end of the caye, into an area which appears to be
the lions’ shelter. You listen at the trapdoor and can
hear shuffling sounds coming from within. Every so
often a man’s voice chuckles. You shove the trap-
door up and leap inside. Standing in a small room is
a sharp-featured man with a long waxed mous-
tache. He is dressed in a bright red suit with a large
top hat— the Ringmaster! Surrounding him, pinned
to the walls, are photographs of twelve people and
several have black lines drawn across them. You
recognize photographs of the woman savaged by ‘a
monster’ and the man crushed in the grounds of the
Natural History Museum. Tiwelve people? Of
course! The jury syhich condemned the Ringmaster
to fifteen years in prison! He leaps to his feet as vou
burst in and you will have to fight him:

THE RINGMASTER
After the first round of combat, turn to 207.

SKILLS STAMINA6

361-362

361

You arrive at Cowlield Dairy and make a thorough
inspection of their sterilization equipment. The staff
are most co-operative and are as anxious to find out
what happened as you are. All seems to be in order
and there is no clue as to how the Poisoner managed
to drop traces of his poison inte the twa milk-
bottles. You have no way of pursuing this case
further. Turn to 107.

7 Y
i \
| |
| |
\ f

362

Where will vou go next? Perhaps you deserve a hitle
entertainment. The Titan Tigers, a local football
team. are playing the Metra Mohawks. If you want
to go and watch the game, turn to 114. If you are
more concerned about finding information about
the activities of F.E.A.R., you may wish to visit
Colonel Saunders at his army base to see whether he
Knows anything (turn to 342).
363-364

363
Fire an Energy Bolt at the creature. When you first
hit it, turn to 48-

364
You grab Karpov and threaten io finish him off

unless he tells you what he knows about F.£.A_R-
The man cringes and agrees, but pleads with you
that he doesn't know much. A meeting is taking
place tomorrow at 21a.m., but he does not know
where the meeting will be, as he has not been
invited. You hand the villain over to the police. You
may add 5 Hero Points for defeating him. Turn
to 40-

365-368

365
The curator of the Natural History Museum is very
helpful and agrees to show you round the exhibits.
Will you ask him to show you the model reconstruc-
tions of dinasaurs (turn to 345) or the ‘large mam-
mals’ section (turn to 253)?

366
lf you have ETS, turn to 205. If you have Super
Strength, turn to 137. Otherwise turn to 267-

6
Take aim and fire your Bay Blast. The first hit will
cause the poor girl gripped in its jaws to be released.
Another will be necessary to kill the creature. When
you Rave inflicted a second hit, turn to 265.

368

lt is hopeless. You do not know where F.E.ALR. is
holding its meeting and you have no chance of
finding itin such a short time. You find a convenient
spot, change into your strect clothes and hail a cah.
the dnver has his radio on. As he chats away, the
radio splutiers and fizzles. The music dies and an
unscheduled announcement interrupts the prog-
remme. Turn to 292.
369
369

You change in a convenient alley and head for the
Dairy. When you arrive al the gates, everything
seems to be in order. Milk-floats are returning from
their daily rounds and thousands of bottles are
chinking their way along conveyors. There is no
sign of danger. A short-tailed tabby cat— no doubt a
Stray—is trying to getin through the gates. You pick
the hungry creature up and stroke it. As you wail,
your eve catches a familiar-looking figure turing
the corner and walking towards you. It is ’Chain-
saw” Bronski, a well-known murderer who you
thought was well behind bars! Will you apprehend
the villain (turn to 3), or does your first duty lie with
the needy and will you instead take the cat ta a Cats’
Home (tirn to 278)?

370-372

370
It is a fine day and the Marina is busthng with
activity, Tomorrow is the annua! Titan City Regatta
and many of the wealthy yacht owners are entering
their boats. This dves not help you in your search for
clues leading to the whereabouts of the FEAR.
meeting, You comb the Marina until ¥ou finally
find a salty old fisherman whois mending his net. lf
you wish to talk to him, turn to 224. Otherwise turn
te) 368.

371
‘There are three of them against one of you. But the
two knuckle-faced bodyguards begin to panic. “B-b-
boss! That there's the Silver Crusader! We don’
want no tangles with no superheroes! Thatmother’s
mean. We ain't got nothin’ to save us from an
Energy Bolt!’ ‘The three of them give up without
a fight. You have eamed 3 Hero Points. Now tum

tu 73.

372
Where will your next mission take you? Remember-

ing the police officer's plea and the Crimewatch’s
message, you may either head for the beach (turn to
72) or Parker Airport (turn to 410)-

373-374

373
The Reincarnation is a powerful creature which may

not be killed. But vou may be able to knock it
unconscious; if you reduce its STAMINA to zero, it
will remain so for bya days. Resolve the battle:

rHE
REINCARNATION _ S$KIL1.10

lf vou defeat the creature, turn fo 239.

STAMINA 12

374

You haul the unconscious assassin out of the crowd
towards the President's car. Swarms of police are
surrounding the car and, in the distance, you can
hear an ambulance’s siren approaching. One of the
President's bodyguards is listening for a pulse. He
looks up and shakes his head. In your street clothes,
you cannot get near the body, but the police listen to
your story and take the assassin trom you. One of
them talks to another, who talks to another standing
in the car. They seem to be considering your story.
Word gets back to you: ‘Something strange is going
on. You say this guy fired at the President as he fell?
Then how come the bullet that killed him came from
a high-powered rifle, not the Magnum your man
was Carrying?’ You are as mystified as they are and
agree to go downtown to answer their questions.
But one thing is clear. Your assassin’s bullet did not
kill the President. Was he merely a decoy? You
puzzle over this as you leave the station and head
for home. Turn to 311,
375-376

375
As luck would have it, you manage to keep all the
dogs from escaping out into the corridor. They now
stand facing you, snarling menacingly. Turn to 120-

376

While you struggle, the plane has entered a steep
dive. With the madman shrieking with insane gice,
you try desperately to subdue him in time to pre-
venta disaster. But io no avail, The Tormentorts too
powerlul. Before you can get to the controls, the

lane hurtles down to the rumvay and explodes,
killing allon board - . -

377-378

377
There is no sign of Knox anywhere around the test

laboratories, but one scientist believes he saw aman
fittng his description jump into a car and drive
away from the Lab towards town. Do you sant to
follow this lead back into Titan City {turn tw 254), or
will vou instead try the nuclear reactor (turn Lo 343)?

378
You fly up in front of the Devastator and land a

heavy blow in its chest. The creature groans and
turns to face you:

THE DEVASTATOR sSkKILL1g

if you defeat it, turn to 119.

STAMINA I2
le

379

379
‘You fly out over the camp fence towards theadvane
ing helicopters. Some twenty helicopters are fying
lowin towards the camp. You stop in mid-2iras you
see the insignia on the side of the leader. It i tl
death's head of F.E.A.R! As ities closer, you cen.
see who is leading this attack. The Macro Brat
pproduct of genetic experimentation, like yourself
the Macro Brain has developed a tremendous intelli-
gence. But unlike yourself, he has decided to use
fo further the cause of evil, A formidable com
tion, you think, On your own there is litle you
could do against tiventy choppers. But perhaps you
could take out the leading one carrying your old foe
ths you consider this, a waming comes {rom
jour Crimewatch, ‘CoUNCIL BUILDINGS. FAST.
You cansider your options. Willyou decide toattack
the leading helicopter to try to defeat the master
‘mind behind this attack (turn to 32), or will you
eave this matter to the army and head into town 19
find out what is happening at Titan Council Build
ngs (turn to59)?

380-381

360
‘Yoo bind the Fice Warton with rope and help the
Slall clear the damage uni the poles arrive, You
Fue Wanors you captured. Then you had beller
feat would be quicker to take the subway fain,
tum to 409,

381
‘The litte man disappears into the back room, Five
‘minutes later, he reappears with a lray. On the tray
is your Peking Duck! He is most put out when you
reluse to pay for the food. This is getting you
nowhere. You leave the laundry, Turn to 368

382

382

You remember vour clue and follow its advice,
When you arrive at the reservoir, you are surprised
to find the office door unlocked. Inside, you find the
reason why. The on-duty clerk is lying in a corner of
the office, bound and vayyved. You untie his hands
and take the gag from his mouth. ‘Crusader!’ he
whispers. "hank goodness you're here! But forget
about me. You've got to get into the pump-house
fast. It's the Poisoner. He’s goin to poison the
water-supply! Quickly? You rush to the pump-
house and fling back the door. A wild-haired man is
leaning over a network of pipes, studying the
valves. In his hand he holds a vial of liquid. As you
enter, he wheels round. An evil grin greets you-
‘The Silver Crusader, ch?’ he laughs. ‘So you think
you can foil my plan. Well, hold your ground. Sev
this vial? One step closer and I'l pour it into this
intake and within an hour my¥ poison will be flowing
out of the taps of every household in Titan City!’
You must stop the Poisoner before he can carry out
his plan. Ifyou have Exernry Blast, tum to 320, Ifyou
have Pst-Puwers, tum to 81. If you have Super
Strength, turn to 25. lf you have £TS, turn to 235,
383-384

383

You arrest the lion-lamer and take him down to
police headquarters. The man is incredulous and
protests his innocence all the way. When you arive
at headquarters, the desk sergeant wents to know
what charges you are bringing against the lion-
tamer, When you can offer no evidence at all as
proof of his zuilt, the sergeant shakes his head. The
lion-tamer must be released. Calling you all the
names under the sun, he leaves the station. You
must lose 2 Hero Points for this wrongful arrest.
Turn now to 148.

54

You concentrate hard = the creature’s mind. It
stops for a moment, shakes its head and looks at
you. Are you getting through to it? You believe you
are, and you siep forward to increase your in-
fluence, This is a fatal mistake. For as you step
forward, the Creature of Carnage snaps out of its
trance and swats at you. You are knocked off your
feet and your head cracks against a girder. You lose
consciousness and you never see the results of the
Crealure’s devastation. For it succeeds in bringing
the whole stand down, killing hundreds of people —
and you are among the dead... .

385-356

385

You rush to the idol and check for the ear-rings.
There are none there! The professor thumbs
through the catalogue to double-check the idol. ‘Er,
ahem! he snorts. “Ah, my mistake, Crusader. This
idol does not have ear-rings at all. My, my. I am
gelling very forgetful in my old age..." A false
alarm. Looks like allis well, afterall, You decide not
to waste any further time here, and you leave. Turn
to 276.

386

in the personal column of the newspaper you find
an interesting snippet, which reads; ‘Richard
Storm. Allis forgiven. How was | to know she wasa
private nurse? Phone me on 555-9999. Love, Susan.’
A private nurse? What is this all about? lf you now
want to proceed ta the bank as the Silver Crusader,
turn to 112. If you want lo go Lo work, turn to 341.
387-389

387
You race after Utoshski through the milling crowds
and catch a glimpse of him leaving the exhibiton
through a fire-door. You follow him into an alley.
He is nowhere to be seen! Tie must have mun to one
end of the alley into the street. Will you try turning
left {turn to 356) or right (turn to 324)?

lt is hopeless. Your car is too slow to react. The two
cats collide, not with each other, but into the young
boy on the ground. The ride stops immediately as
the boy’s mother mushes on to the track shricking.
Five minutes later an ambulance arrives to rush the
boy to hospital. Butitis toa late; he has died- Feeling
ashamed that you could do nothing to help the bor.
you leave. You have had enough of Wisnevland for
the day. Turn to 103.

Yau concentrate hard on the ice around the two
swimmers. A puddle of waterappears around them
and their spirits rise. You are melting the ice! But the
mental effort you are using is considerable. You
must lose 4 STAMINA points to free the two girls,
but when you haye done so, you may add 2 Hero
Points for undoubtedly saving their lives. You will
not be able to meli the whole pool; you will have to
leave this to.ime. You may leave by turning to 362.
l{ you wish, you may check the pool heating-plant
before you leave, by turning to 347-

390-391

399

You try to smash the door. It shakes, but there is
nothing you can do. It is made of ten-centimetre
solid metal. Even your great strength cannot break
it. You try again, but without success. However,
your atlempis to smash the door do attract the
attentions of the crew. ‘Am intruder! cries someone.
‘Locked in the ejection chamber! You can guess
what they will do next. A rumbling sound from the
walls around you is followed by a loud hissing. Next
thing you know you are forcibly fired out of the
submarine into the sea. The shock is ton much for
you. You pass out, never to regain consciousness.
ft doesn’t take long for your lungs ta fill with
water...

391

You arrive at a disused warehouse in the industrial
district. The door is open and you can hear voices
coming from upstairs. Will you creep slowly up the
slairs, ready for action {turn to 277), or will you vet
up on the roof and swing through the window to
surprise them (turn to 396)?
392-393

You follow the Macto Brain into the Colonel's study
and wait for the right moment to use Energy Blast.
As you ate about to send a Boll, your opponent
wheels round lo face you. “Cnisader! he laughs. ‘So
you have joined the army, ch? Well let's see if we
can persuade you to join my army." You try to fire
your Bolt, Nathing happens! The tremendous men-
tal powers of the Macro Brain have interfered with
your own special abilities. Seconds later, you feel =
sharp stabbing pain in your chest. Your old foe has
developed much more far-reaching mental powers
then he ever had before. You are powerless to
prevent him sapping the energy from you! You fall
to your knees in submission, but still he will not
relent. For the Macro Brain will not stop unfil you
have been reduced to a virtual mindless zombie.
Your career as a superhero is over . . .

393
The crowd love you. You sign autographs for ten

minutes and kiss a couple of babies, then make your
excuses and leave. Jonah Whyte will be furious when
you arrive al work. But your public-spirited attitude
has been good for PR. Add 1 Hero Point and head
for work. Turn to 435.

394-395

394
When you arrive in Xavier Hangar, mechanics are

servicing two executive jets. You find a pair of
overalls hanging on the wall, slip mta them and
wander around. Thereis nothing suspicious. In fact
you are nol expecting anything to happen for a
couple of hours- What time of day are you expecting
the meeting to take place? Add this time to today’s
date and add the result to this reference. If the
resulting reference makes no sense, turn to 220,

395
An obliging attendant ts happy to show you the

body of the mysterious man. He looks up a file and
reaches for the handle on a cadaver drawer. His
eyes open wide as he pulls the drawer out. It is
empty! He double-checks the number and shakes
his head. ‘T can’t understand it!’ he says. Tput him
in here myself! And I’ve been here all the time
except for. . . my coffee break’ The trail ends here,
There are no clues as to the whereabouts of the
mussing body. You can leave the hospital by turning
to 226.
Rs

at
,
‘N
ig
ae
x

Ns
=

396

396

You time your swing perfectly. The Mantrapperand
two henchmen are sitting just inside, with Drew
Swain fied up on a chair nearby. Smashing through
the glass, you land in the centre of the group, your
feet catching both henchmen. One topples over
backwards and rolls into a self-locking cage, which
slams shut, trapping him inside. The other rolls
over to the stairwell and crashes through the ban-
nister to land with a thud at the bottom oi the stairs.
Now it’s just you against the Mantrapper-

MANTRAPPER SKILLS STAMINA?

If you defeat him, hirn ta 16.

397-398

The crowd cheers as you walk down the steps of the
building. You are surrounded by energetic hands
thrusting pieces of paper at you. You have signed a
dozen or so autographs when your ears prick up. A
cry is coming from a shop a few doors down: ‘Stop!
Thief!’ Sounds like a job for the Silver Crusader! You
break through the crowd toinvestigate. Turn to 256-

398
Under the watchful eye of your boss, you complete
the moming’s work. At lunch-time, you take a
corner booth at El Greco’s, a cheap diner on the next
block. While you are eating, a chattering group of
boffin-types scramble into the booth next to yours.
They are trying to keep their voices down, but their
obvious excitement allows you to catch the gist of
their conversation. They are from the local univer-
sity’s science laboratory. ‘Well, 1 think the man’s a

398-399

fool!’ says one. ‘If he mixes the aldehyde in at flat
temperature there could be an almighty explosion.’
“Maybe you're right, says another. ‘He’s a stubborn
old jackass. He'd never admit it was dangerous. |
know one thing; we're much safer out here!’
Hmmm, you think. Sounds ominous. Perhaps
you'd better check it out. The group’s security-
passes identify them as being from the Biochemistry
Department — only a block away. You pay your bill
and leave quickly. Halfway there, you stop. From
within the shop vou are passing, a cry reaches you-

‘Stop! Thief!’ Will you imyestigate this call for help
(turn to 256), or do you think stopping a potential
explosion is a much more important task (turn to

144)?

Honking furiously, he pulls you round to the far
side of the circus towards a large, brightly coloured
caravan. You walk up the steps and open the door.
‘Good afternoon, good afternoon!” says a plump
lady behind a desk inside. ‘We have only a few seals
left for tonight's performance, but I’m sure we can
find you something suitable. How many tickets do
you want” You explain that you have not come for
tickets. Will you ask her where you can find the
owner of the circus and follow her directions {tum
to 223), or will you ask her whether she knows
anything about any escaped animals (tur to 291)?
400-402

400

The Bolt catches the assassin in the back. He howls
and throws up his hands, losing his grip on the nfle,
which drops from the roof, The shock has made him
lose his balance and he slumps forward, over the
edge of the roof! You rush to the edge just in time to
see him land in the crowd below, no doubt causing
some considerable injuries to the onlookers. You
have saved the President's life, but have also caused
a serious accident. Add 1 Mero Point and turn to

311-

401

One of the dogs has nat been fully subdued! It
breaks past you through the door and rushes into
the crowd, growling menacingly. You must pursue
itimmediately before itcan harm anyone:

RADIATION DOG

lf it rolls a higher Attack Strength than your own,
him to 31, but first role this reference, 5 you will haw
fo reliien here afterioaris. If you defeat the dog, tum
to 247.

SKILLZ STAMINAS

402
You pull a small metal gadget from your Accessory
Belt and aim it at the boxes. Your Forcefield Gener-
ator hums; the boxes sway, topple over and fall on
the thief. There is a shrill scream. The protruding
foot shakes and then rests still. Cautiously, you
walk over to investigate. Turn to 286.

403-404

403
ihe study is not empty. As you enter, a figure
stands over the desk, leafing through a notehook
and taking pictures with a radiv camera! The maid
streams al the sight of the Smoke, an cthereal villain
who is able to turn himself at will into a vapour. As
you enter he drops the camera and smiles. Tuming
himself into a whisk of brown smoke, he streaks
actoss the room and disappears through the air-
conditioner. You race outside the house, Turn to 29.

404
You have no special gadgets you can use against
such a creature, the likes of which you have never
seen belore. You will have to light it:

FOUNTAIN

CREATURE SKILL IO STAMINA]

Your first hit will cause it to drop the injured girl into
the fountain. When you have inflicted your fourth
hit, turn to 65-
495~407

405

You reach into a thomy bush and your fingers touch
a metallic object. Grasping it as best you can, you
pull out a gold medallion hanging on a delicate
chain. As you turn it over in your hand, you realize
itis undoubtedly quite valuable. The medallion has
the initials D.R. engraved on it. Will vou hand this
over to the police (tum to 252), or take it to a jeweller
{turn to 17)? Allernatively you may wish to visit
anather address. If so, add tovether the numberand
street number of this address and turn to this refer-
ence.

406

The Alchemists emerge, and you turn on your Sonic
Confuser, In front of you, the gang raise their hands
to their ears and scream with pain. But around
them, pedestrians, including two young girls, are
doing the same. You cannot risk harming the pub-
lic. You fiddle with the gadget to tum it off, but
already the gang have turned the corner and
escaped. You have lost them! Turn to 372-

407
Jest your Luck. Lf you are Lucky, turn to 196. lf you

are Unlucky, tum to 56,

qo8— 40g

408

When vou arrive at the zoo gates, you question the
attendant, asking whether there have been any
reports of animals escaping from their cages over
the last couple of days. The attendant is obviously
excited to see you. “Gosh. Hi, Crusader!’ he stam-
mers. “Er, yes. | did hear something about an
escape. But I don’t know any more about it. You'll
have to ask the Director. Pll take you to him if you
like.” You tell him tolead the way. Butas you turn lo
follow him, a beep — beep — beep comes from your
wrist. You hold the Crimewatch up lo your ear.
“MUSEUM OF EGYPTIAN HERITAGE, it speaks. Da
you want to follow its advice and head straightaway
for the museum (turn to 158), or will you ignore this
messave and instead follow the attenclant (turn Lo
26)?

409

The office is only two stops away. Surprisingly, you
don’t have to wait long for a train to arrive. You sit
and contemplate a ood excuse to pive to Mr Whyte,
who is bound to be in a foul mood when you arrive,
bula ery interrupts your thoughts. ‘Help! you hear,
from a voice at the other end of the carnage, Oh, nv!
What is it this hme? As if in answer, the voice crics:
‘PICKPOCKETY You had better see if you can help
— but there will be no opportunity te change inte the
Silver Crusader. Will you go and help the man (turn
to 285), or will you ignore him and concern yourself
with getting to work on time for once (turn to 301)?
410

410
You arrive at Parker Airport and ask the nearest
secunty guard whether anythiny is happening:
‘The Silver Crusader! he gasps. “Thank goodness
you're here! Follow me-. Pll take you to the Control
Tower.’ You follow him up into the Control lower
where you find the place buzzing with activity. The
Air-Traffic Controller greets you nervously. ‘Have
you heard? No? The police are on their way, Some
guy calling himself “the Tormentor” has hijacked a
DC10 full of passengers to London. He's mad! No
demands; nothing. Says he'll crash the plane.
Blames it all on “Susan”. We don’t know what to
do. A complete nutter! Is there anything you can
do?’ Is there anything you can do? Tf ‘Susan’ means
anything to you. tum to141. [fnot, you can use your
powers. If you have Super Strength, turn to 84. If you
have Pst-Powers, turn to 216. Otherwise, turn to 276.
411-412

411
You press the button on your Circuit Jammer. [he
Cyborg’s grin fades as the device affects its electro
nic functions. Its abilities have been reduced to
those of an ordinary man! Now you may battle the
villain on more equal terms:

TITANIUM CYBORG sxitig
Ht you defeat the villain, turn to 79.

STAMINA i0

412
You arrive at police headquarters and speak to
Licutenant Wojak, who seems to be quite distres-
sed. ‘The news has leaked out, Crusader,’ he ex-
plains. *We were Lrying toa keep the Poisoner’s
threats a secret, but it seems some reporter gol his
hands on the story. he Poisoner has asked fur a
million in unmarked notes by this evening, other-
wise he says everyone in Titan City will suffer. You
know the guy: he’s a madman. And he's involved
with that F_E.A.R. organization. What can we da?’
Apparently two citizens have already died from
minute traces of poison found in their milk-botiles.
You offer to try to track him down. Where will you
begin your search? [he Cowfield Dairy (tum to 361),
or the city’s largest drug store in Schuter Mall (tum
to 268)? Lf there is somewhere else you'd like to go,
you will know how to get there.

413-414

413
You have no time to concentrate; she attacks

straight away. Resolve this combat:
TICER CAT SKILLY

If you win, turn to 217.

STAMINAS

414

You leap into the air and shoot after the van. Halfa
Kilometre ahead, you see it about to make a turn.
You drop down in front of it, forcing it to stop. The
driver stares. ‘Say,’ he greets you. “Ain‘t you that
Crusader cat? Well, I sure am glad to meet you.

Yesiree.’ You tell him you are going to take alook in
the back of his van and step round to the back. He
follows you, still jabbering. “But why, Crusader
baby? Ain’t nothin’ in there but a coup!'a porkies, a
coupla chicken...” You open the door and are
greeted with a blast which knocks you three metres
backwards, to land in a lifeless heap in the road!
‘Oh yeah, Nearly forgot,” chuckles the man, ‘an’ a
laser cannon. That ol’ Mantrapper sure do have
thines worked out well. Yes indeed.” You have
fallen nght into a cleverly executed trap. The van
was merely a decoy. And a deadly one at that: your
mistake has cost you your life...
415-416

415

Quick asa flash, you reach forward and grab the gi
in the nick of time before she plunges to certain
death. Her parents are horrified at the dreadful
accident which might have occurred. When the nde
is over, they thank you profusely for saving their
daughter‘s life. You decade that you have had
enough of Wisneyland. Turn to 103.

416
Tle studies the closed-circuit security screens which
are focused on the main treasures of his collection:
Everything seems to be in order. But he does study
one screen rather closely, It is a figurehead of the
sod Amoan-Ra, festooned with golden jewellery. He
is nol sure whether there is supposed to be a pair af
golden ear-rings on the idol. Do you want to go and
check it (turn to 385), or will you instead check the
main exhibit, the sarcophagus of Princess Ankalis
(turn to 240}?

417-418

417
There is nothing particularly suspicious about the
boat. Indeed it would be a most unsuitable place to
have a meeting, since there is no room for anyone
apart from the crew on board_ Turn to 368.

From your Accessory Belt you draw out your Direc-
tional Sound Neutralizer. ‘Focusing it on the noisy
crowd, you send a charge into the centre. Its effectis
immediate. By neutralizing all the sound-waves
within range of its effect, no one can hear what
anyone else is saying! Batlled by their apparent
deafness, the crowd tum towards you. You tum off
the Sound Neutralizer. Yoices whisper: ‘The Silver
Crusader!’ In a booming voice you command them
to cease their squabbling and disperse. They do as
you say. Now you must change back into your street
clothes and choose your next move. Will you con-
tinue your original journey to work (tum to 341), or
head into Audubon Park (turn to 165)?
419

419

You concentrate hard on the immensely powerful
mind within Sidney Knox's body. You must resolve
the following combatas ifit were a normal fight, but
in this case, it represents a mind-io-mind battic
betiveen Knox's will and your own. While fighting
this one out, your SKILL is the same as your current
SKILL score, and your ‘mental’ sTAMINA is 6 (you
will not lose any ‘real’ STAMINA points).

SIDNEY KNOX SKILL?

Tach time you lose a round of combat, the effect on
vour physical body wears down your SKILL. You
must permanently lose 1 skiLL point for each
Attack Round which you lose. If you defeat him,
turn ta 358-. If you wish ta break mental combat, you
will have to attack him physically (turn to 33).

STAMINAS6

420
The Manager, Roger Stevens, wants to doall he can
to help. Te was woken in the early morning by a
call from the police. The Alchemists, masters of
advanced chemistry, had neutralized the alarm
with some sort of acidic pas which delayed its being
activated as they forced their way in. Another un-
known compound had dissolved the security lock
on the main door. Why the security guard had not
noticed the intruders was still a mystery which
would only be solved when the time-lock released
him from the vault. You ask him about his deposit-
box holders and he becomes less co-operative. Some
of the boxes are awned by important citizens, and
their identities must not be disclosed. Will you try to
find out more abet the depasit-box owners (lurn to
83). or question the Chief Detective (turn to 323} vr
the security guard {turn to 259)?
421-422

421

Using a Spectral Analyser, you are surprised to
cliscover that the police chief's guess was probably
not far from the truth. lhe creature seems to be
made of a sort of rock. The nearest equivalent is the
kind of substance found in fallen meteors! But how
will you attempt to defeat it? If you have a vial of
phenolic acid, turn to 340. you want to try to takeit
on with your bare hand s, turn to 262. H you feel this
creature is a little too strong for you, tam tp 319.

422
You concentrate on the creature’s mind, bul you are
unable to get through to it. In fact you ate unsure
whether it has a mind at all, or whether it is mot
vated simply by instinct. You try a different tack.
Running round the side of the empty grave, you
watch the creature carefully as it follows you- As it
steps forwards, you will the ground io open up
under its foot. A crack appears on the ground and
when the Reincarnation’s foot touches the soil, it
drops a metre into the grave! Ihe jolt has injured it,
but certainly has not stopped it. You must now tum
ti. 373 to fight it, bui deduct 4 5TAMINA points from
its score, for the fall it has just had.

423-424

42

You study the dgarette ack It is an ordinary
packet of Karisboroughs, but contains no cigarettes.
The piece of paper inside makes no sense at all; a
few meaningless words strung together. Is it really
meaningless, or perhaps some kind of code? Ifitis a
code, it means nothing to you. Ifvou have ETS, you
could take it home and mum it through your Decod-
ing Computer (turn to 329). Bul this will take some
time, and you ought to be getting to work. Other-
wise you can save it, and give it some thought fater
(turn to 86)-

424

You spend halfan hour winding round the stacked

res of the supermarket, choosing what you will

be eating over the next couple of days. Eventually
Fou pay for your groceries and leave. Turn tu 226.
425

425
The crowds are gathering to get into the exhibition,

and a huge banner proclaims: ‘APPLIANCES OF THE
FUTURE — See Tomorrow's Home Technology [o-
day! As you wander through the exhibitions, there
are many excited yoices enthusing over the more
ambitious gadects on show. The ‘Clothing Service
Station’, for example, is a machine which takes in
dirty washing and cleans, dries and irons it, ready to
wear. A “Cocktail Composer’ puts together all the
ingredients of a cocktail. “The Perfect Opponent’ isa
games-playing computer which can learn the rules
of anry game and will play at eight different levels of
skill. Robots are there in many forms. A “lidy Maicl’
remembers where everything goes in a room and
will replace everything im its proper position. Ona
large stand, a man with round glasses and a loud
voice is demonstrating his firm’s “Tireless Butler’, a
man-sized Android which will do many home
chores. You stare at him. His face looks familiar, but
you can't quite place him- The Android passes hima
Cigarette as he is bending down, but catches his hair
and moves it slightly. A wig! Of course! With a bald
head, his identity is obvious. Although he is not
easy to recognize without the cybernetic enhancers
he wears on his arms and his distinctive — and very
dangerous — eye-gogeles, it most certainly is Vladi-
mir Utoshski, head of F.E.A.R.! You quickly nip
away Lo change into the Silver Crusader, and return
to capture the villain. But he is quick. He sees you
coming, flicks a switch at the back of the Android,
and darts off mto the crowd. A whirring sound
425-426

comes from the Android. It turns towards a man
studying its arm and smashes him across the face
with a powerful blow! Screams break out and the
Android goes berserk, charging into the crowd,
arms flailing. Will you pursue Utoshski (tum to
387), oris your first duty tosave the visitors from the
mad Android (turn tu 62)?

426

Like a true hero, you grasp the bottle between your
hands and try to smother the explosion. But the
bottle is builing-hot! You scream in pain as it burns
your hands badly, You mustlose 2SKILL points and
must now decide whether to fling the bottle through
an open window (turn to 269 — but you need not lose
another SKILL point), or rush off to look for =
fire-extinguisher (turn to 89).

427

427

You quietly slip into the Colonels office and find the
Macro Brain leafing through files. After your last
encounter with the Macro Brain, you devised what
Fou hope will be the perfect weapon against him, an
Alpha-wave Emitter. You draw it from your Acces-
sory Belt and set it going. If your theory is correct,
generating alpha waves on sucha highly develaped
mind will cause acute mental anguish — perhaps
even epileptic fits, in such a sensitive subject. The
Macro Brain clutches at his ears and spins round to
face you. “Aaarghk® he cries, clutching his ears with
his hands. “Crusader! It is you! If this is one of your
devices, switch it off You smile at his obvious
discomfort. You will switch it offifhe tells you all he
knows about the F.E.A.R. meeting which is ta take
place soon. The Alpha-wave Emitter is agonizing
for him. “All right! All right!’ he agrees. The meet-
ing is due t take place ata Chinese laundry, tomor-
row. But that is all l know. Now switch that damn
thing off? You switch off your device and pin the
Macro Brain's arms behind his back. You march him
oul into the courtyard, and the sight of your hostage
ends the battle quickly. The F.E.A_R. troops surren-
der to the army. You may add 6 Hero Points for
capturing the Macro Brain. Now you can return ta
town. Tarn to 311-
428~42g
428

You resume your shopping-tour downtown. Will
you make for “Verging Records’ to go and have 2
look al what new albums have come out recently
(turn to 189), or will you have a look in the window
of Epiphany’s, the famous jeweller’s (tum to 300}?

\

42
What can you get him? An apple? A bottle of ee
ky? A new tie? You decide to go for somethi
litde more imaginative. Do you want to head aoe n-
stairs to the Book Department (turn to 42) or up-
slairs to the Games Department (turn to 355)?

430-431

439

Some time later, things begin to happen, One of the
jets is evidently ready and is being prepared! for a
flight. Six figures, dressed in heavy caats with
turned-up collars, appear and gel on board.
Although you cannot make out any of their faces,
one figure stands oul as being much bulkier than the
rest. His coat is an unnatural fit, bulging at all the
wrong places. As he steps into the aireralt, the clang
of metal on metal confirms your suspicions. Feet of
steel! Tt is the litanium Cyborg! Quickly you lind a
hiding-place and change into the Silver Crusader.
But just as quickly, the jet is leaving the hangar and
taxiing up the runway! Whatis your power;

Super Strength? Yurn to 87
Enersy Blast? Turn tu 330
Other? turn to 249

431
You may award yourself 2 Hera Points for defeating
Mustapha Kareem, alias the Mummy, The curator,
needless to say, is incredulous when you explain
what happened; Kareem had been with him for
eleven years. Turn to 276.
432

432
As the young starlet picks herself up and thanks
you, the Serpent moans and pleads for mercy. He
can offer you some information and wants to doa
deal. He will tell you what he knows if you will
release him. But you have sworn to uphold justice
and can agree to no such deal. You explain that you
can only suygest that helping you by relating this
information may make the judge a little easier on
him. Reluctantly he agrees. He tells you fwo pieces
of information. First of all, you Jearn that the Crea-
ture of Carnage is in fact Ilya Karpov, a known
agent of F.E.A,.R-. Also he has heard that there will
be an assassination attempt on the life of the Presi-
dent when he visits Titan City. The killer will be
hiding on the roof of the Regent Hotel. If you decade
to watch the President's arrival, add i100 to the
reference you are on when you arrive to apprehend
the assassin, You may add 2 LUCK points for this
information. After you have handed him over to the
police, tum to 79. You may add 2 Hero Points lor
rescuing Lola Manche.

133-434

433
The Ringmaster pleads with you not to hand him

over to the police; he has no wish to spend any more
time in jail. In desperation he gives you a clue,
which may or may not be useful. He tells you that
the Ice Queen, in the disyuise of her alter ego, Sylvia
Frost, has bought the Titan abattoir. If you come
across evidence of the: Ice Queen's activities, deduct
20 from the reference you are onat the time andtum
to this new reference. You may add 1 tuck point for
this information, The Ringmaster is hopeful that
you will release him for telling you this news. Of
course you are not willing to bargain with the man.
You hand him over to the police and may award
yourself 3 Hero Points. Now turn to 148.

434

You manage to push through the crowd and you see
a man’s body slumped on the ground lyingin a pool
of blood. His head hangs at an unnatural angle-
Judging from his clothes, he was a wealthy man,
and a brown hide briefcase with gold fastenings lies
by his side. But by now the police cordon is forcing
Fou, along with the other onlookers, away from the
scene. Turn to 182.
435

‘Lafayette! Get in here at ence!’ No svoner had you
stepped through the office door than Jonah Whyte’s
booming voice summoned you. You creep into his
office, mumbling scanty excuses for being late yet
again. “Enough! he yells. ‘What do you think we are
running here? A charity? Do you suppose | should
be grateful that you even grace us with your pres-
ence? Very noble of you indeed to even bother
coming in at all! Well, I tell you what. I’m feeling
kind today. You can have the rest of the day off.

Wothont pey! And if you're nat in first thing tomor-
row morning, you can start looking for anotherjob!’

You slink out of his office with your tail between
your legs. How can you tell him what you've been
doing? ‘And now you've been suspended for a day.

Where will you go? Will you spend the day at
Wisneyland, the amusement park (turn to 25), or
will you go downtown to do some shopping (tum
to 202)?

436
You leap aside to avoid being bowled over by the
huge frozen weight. Quick asa flash, the Ice Queen
is upon you! You must fight her:

ICE QUEEN STAMINA &

the Ice Queen’s touch is dangerous, Each time she
lands a blow on you, its effect will be to freeze part
of your body. You must deduct 1 sxiti. point for
each successful attack she makes on you. You will
not regain this skitt. until the next time you gain
STAMINA puints. If you defeat the Ice Queen,
turn to 241.

SKILLZ
437

437
You leap on the leader and grapple with him on the

floor, Although you have separated him from his
test-tube rack, the Alchemist stil has in his hand a
tube of nerve-gas. While you fight him, you must
take special care that he is not able to break the tube
or else the innocent citizens — nol lo mention you —
may be harmed. In view of this ution, you
must deduct 2 points from your Attack Strength
during the struggle:

First ALCHEMIST

If the Alchemist should inflict a hit on you, you must
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, continue as normal.
Tf you are Unlucky, you must turn immediately to
28, If you defeat the Alchemist you may gO for the
others (turn to 354).

SKILLS STAMINASO

438-439

438

You make your way home and spend the rest of the
night relaxing in front of the TV after the day’s
excitement. You may add 65Tamina points for the
rest. The next morning you leave for work early.
You travel by bus. As the bus enters Radd Square,
you notice a disturbed crowd in the centre of the
square. Something is happening! At that very mo-
ment, your Crimewatch sounds! You hold it ta your
ear and hear its message: (COWFIEL D DAERY, FAST.
Quickly you get off the bus. Will you investigate
the disturbance i in Radd Square (turn to 201), or will
you follow your Crimewaich’s instructions and
head towards Cowfield Dairy, two blocks away
(turn to 369}?

439
The Rotating Roomis a huge barrel on its side which

tumbles over and over. The people inside try des-
petately to walk forvard at the same speed as it
rotates in order to keep their footing; walking too
fast or foo slow means they fall over. There are three
people inside as you enter and they are happy to
leave at your request. Keeping your footing, you
examine the inside and lind a delicate key which has
become stuck to the surface in a piece of chewing-
gum. You decide to take it for examination. Turn

to 37.
440

440
the police are amazed, Single-handedly you have
defeated the most dangerous association of crimin-
ais known ty the world! And the extent of their
dastardly plans soon becomes clear. Utoshski had
developed a transmitting computer centre which
was capable of overriding transmissions from the
Pentagon to the US ‘Star Wars’ satellite orbiling the
earth. He was able completely to control the super
Weapons on board the satellite, capable of decimat
mg an entire city at the push of a button. Tis
objective was the domination of the civilized coun-
tries of the world.

But you have foiled his plan. The Pentagon securily
todes can be changed almost immediately. And the
Titanium Cyborg will be closely guarded for the rest
of his life. You have earned 10 Hero Points for this
victory. You can honestly say that you have saved
the world from F.E.A.R- itself!
’ FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS |

Over 12 million copies sold worldwide!

a =| . - *1.7 3 is one —
Tough, incorruptible champion of law and

fae WITT ae : <s} @
PLUCa, 2 $)| ure the SuVeT Lrusadcer:

Using your super powers, you protect the inno-
cent citizens of teeming Titan City from the
terrorism, violence, kidnapping and corruption
of a host of super-villains. Your mission is to
discover the location of the top-secret F.E.A.R,
meeting, capture the Titanium Cyborg and his
cohorts and bring them to justice.

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you need.
You have a choice of four super powers — psi
powers, super strength, enhanced technological
skills or energy blasts — and the power you
choose will affect the course of your mission.
There are Hero points to be won and lost, clues
to follow, dangers to face and villains to fight.

Covet luvtration by Rnan Bolland

a
°4

aa
ad’

we Eee!

ri
at

siti

A USO
’ ? TOT
a i
. 7

"
San

> ¢ >.
» nog

.7 5

-.

SA Po IRS VP,
Pe |

» pty vee

ah

a

Spe

“A ~ . 5 ’ .
ae * : t A soy

