pr - a ~ A ~ ,
7
|
: a4 ~.)
, _ \ v J / f . ; * .

and IAN LIVINGSTON!

PRESS
~ )

.
| |

. ~
1

A thrilling Futurigticiady
in which YOU andith

oe
F |

PUFFIN BOOKS

REBEL PLANET

As the mighty alien Arcadian Empire tightens its hold on the
galaxy, the leaders of the secret Earth organization,
SAROS, gather their slender resources into one last daring
. and foolhardy mussion to strike at the heart of the invaders’
home planet.

Fully trained in all the martial arts, equipped with a forbid-
den laser sword {one of the few remaining on Earth), YOU
are their last hope. Your mission is to seek out the scattered
remnants of the underground resistance on the other occu-
pied planets, using your cover as a travelling merchant, and
piece together the vital code you need. Only when you have
this information will you be able to strike at the central
Areadian complex, which SARQOS believes will break the
strange powers of the Arcadians and so loosen their domina-
tion of the free worlds

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you need to embark
on this thrilling futuristic adventure, complete with its
elaborate combat system and a score sheet to record your
gains and losses.

Many dangers le ahead and your success is by no means
certain, Powerful adversaries are ranged against you and
often your only choice is to kill or be killed!

Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone present:

REBEL
PLANET

Robin Waterfield

Hlustrated by Gary Mayes

Puffin Books

Puttin Booka. Penunitt Boke List) Harned berth, Midcieses Traian
Viking Penguin inc, a Weal apn Street New Yor. New York santa Lt A
Murscuin Hoobs Auenahs Lidl, Kiagyood. Victor Austialin
Peonguitt Hooks Canada bawited. aSc1 Jobe Street, Merkhatn, Gnitorn, Caraeda ige th
Proogeuits Thioks (NZ > Liu, s#a-t Walnee Bited, Auckiend mm, Wer Leal

First published 2985
Reprinted 1985, 1986

Concept copyright © Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone, 1985
Text copyright © Robin Waterheld, 1985
Illustrations copyright © Gary Mayes, 1985
All rights reserved

Printed and bound in Great Britain by
Cox & Wyman Ltd, Reading
Filmset in 11/13pt Linotron Palatino by
Rowland Phototypesettng Ltd,
Bury St Edmunds, Suflotk

Except in the United States of America,
this book is sold subject io the condition
that it shall not, by way of trade or otherwise,
be lent, resold, hired out, or otherwise circulated
without the publisher's prior consent in any form of
binding or cover other than that in which it is
published and without a similar condition
including this condition being imposed
on the subsequent purchaser

For Julian, for fun
ee

CONTENTS

HISTORY
9
MISSION BACKGROUND
13

CONTACT WITH ALIENS
16

ABILITIES
18

COMBAT
21

EQUIPMENT AND MONEY
27
ADVENTURE SHEET

28

REBEL PLANET

30
HISTORY

It is the year 2453. Human colonization of far-flung
planets of the galaxy began in 2070 with the first
expedition to Tropos, only 6.8 light-years away
from Earth. Tropos gradually became a centre in its
own right, relieving the pressures caused on Earth
by too many people, ‘A home from home,’ claimed
the glossy brochures designed to attract further
colonists, but ‘more terrestrial than terrestrials’ was
nearer the mark, as the fashions and habits of the
late twenty-first century became fossilized and fell
behind changes on Earth, Canny travel agents used
to advertise visits to Tropos as ‘journeys back in
time’.

With the discovery of ziridium on Tropos, and the
invention of the alpha-ziridium system, which en-
ables spaceships to keep accelerating rather than
simply travelling at the same speed, more distant
planets became neighbours. The next planet found
to be suitable for humans was Radix. One of the
unexpected factors in inhabiting another planet is
that any new species must adapt to suit that planet.
Radix is a very fertile planet, and the human colon-
ists there soon found that so-called human nature is
mainly a product of the planet Earth. Life on Radix
was so easy and luxurious that the colonists quickly
settled into a way of living that, by Earth’s stan-
dards, was Jazy and corrupt.

9

There are very few planets in the galaxy that hu-
mans can inhabit; even those which have the right
atmosphere may be too hot or too cold, or have too
much or too little gravity. Eventually Halmuris was
discovered, but not before several expeditions had
been lost in the abyss of space. Conditions on
Halmuris are bleak and bitter: it became mainly a
home for scientists and explorers, who were waiting
to find and be sent to the next planet.

Before long they had found it. The first unmanned
flights brought back pictures ofa planet obscured by
cloud, whose atmosphere, as revealed by spectro-
analysis, was a breathable but lighter version of
Earth’s. In their joy at the thought of getting off
Halmuris — though some would remain as a sort of
base camp — they gave the new planet the peaceful
name of Arcadion. But what did the clouds hide?

Arcadion consists of three land-masses separated
by huge expanses of water. Because of the separa-
tion of the continents, a different species devel-
oped on each land-mass. By 2285, when human
spaceships split the clouds and came down to the
surface of Arcadion, the three species had been
united for a long time. The inventive and intelligent

10

occupants of the vast horseshoe-shaped continent,
which circles half the globe from east to west, had
conquered the warlike Northern species and the
more artistic Southerners. The Alliance, as it was
called, had lasted for centunes.

Their technology, however, was more primitive
than Earth’s, and space-travel was restricted, They
wanted to conquer space just as much as human
beings, for they wanted an Empire. So when the few
human spaceships landed, the Arcadians soon saw
the advantages of alpha-ziridium . . .

The war took only twelve years, and for most of that
time the Arcadians were building alpha-ziridium
fleets rather than actually fighting. First the outpost
on Halmuris was taken by surprise and overrun
Radix, to its eternal shame, gave in without a
struggle. The invaders met with stiff resistance from
the Tropians, who were eager to keep their tradi-
honal way of life; but the Troptans, too, were over-
whelmed by the greater numbers and fighting skills
of the Arcadians. Earth itself, with its bases on
Mercury, Venus and the moon, fell soon after-
wards, and the worst fears of the prophets of doom

_ backed by the Terrestrial Ecology Party — who never

wanted to leave Earth in the first place - came true:
human beings became ruled by a galactic empire,

The Arcadians were badly equipped to control an
empire at first, but Arcadians are very adaptable.
They built a massive organic computer on Arcadion
— binary is natural for the two-fingered Arcadians —

11

O_O

and implanted into the brain of every Arcadian a
receiver linked to the central organic complex by
empathy, which had long been recognized to be the
quickest form of communication. The Arcadians be-
came like a hive or an ant-colony: each individual is
a cell of a sprawling, single entity — an entity which
can control an empire with merciless efficiency.

Arcadion — a peaceful name, but for 150 years it has
been another word for tyranny. The only human
word still spitefully allowed is the name of the
planet: Esperanto was the common tongue of hu-
man beings, but now its use means instant death.
Humans are slaves and are only kept alive to serve
the aliens — and humans do not live for very long
these days. The only Arcadian regret is that the
human body cannot be implanted with the
empathic receiver — as they discovered after the
vivisection and death of hundreds of test-cases. The
Arcadians chose to submit their will to the central
computer, but human will cannot be wiped out
without death. The aliens can keep their power only
through cruelty.

But it has not gone unnoticed on Earth that the
weakness, as well as the strength, of the Arcadians
is that they rely on the computer: they no longer
have any will of their own, so they would become
zombies if the computer were destroyed. The weak-
ness Of a hive is the supreme importance of the
queen ant or bee. The weakness of the Empire is the
computer queen of Arcadion — and this is where you
come in.

12

MISSION BACKGROUND

In times past, the planning and funding of human
colonization of other planets was undertaken by
SAROS, an international organization promoting
‘Search And Research Of Space’. Under the
Arcadian Empire, SAROS has had to change:
although it seems to be just an astronomical insti-
tute, in fact it has been doing all it can to overthrow
the Empire. It quickly became clear that a full-scale
military attack was out of the question, and that the
only hope lay in a solo mission to destroy the central
computer.

Preparing for this mission has been a long and
patient task, hindered by the fact that radio trans-
mitters are still not allowed, and contact with the
underground on other planets was difficult. But two
factors make the time right now — or as right as it
probably ever will be. First, you are the perfect
choice for the mission: you are resourceful,
courageous and dedicated to liberation. You have
been trained for many months in martial arts, and
you have acquired a knowledge of those branches of
science that could be at all useful. Finally, your
cover is excellent: you will travel as a merchant.

For the second factor is that humans are now
allowed to travel in space again, though only as
merchants to serve the Arcadians. You will be

13

Ee — ee ee
taking wheat from Earth to Tropos, ziridium from
Tropos to the authorities on Radix, luxury goods
from Radix to Halmuris, and you have been in-
structed to take an important Arcadian from Hal-
muris to Arcadion. The other significant aspect of
the lifting of the ban on space-travel is that SAROS
has been able to send spies to gather the information
you need for your mission.

ground leaders are - you only know codenames, at
best - and, of course, what the digits are. That is
why your cover has been arranged to allow you to
stop on each planet. You must locate the rebel
leaders and learn the digits; then you must destroy
the computer

The picture that emerged is still incomplete, be-
cause vital details were lost through traitors — some
humans trying to please their masters in the hope of
some crumbs of comfort, or of living for a few extra
months. This treachery has its good and its bad side:
the good side is that now you know you will not
automatically be able to trust every human you
meet, because some may be helping the Arcadians;
the bad side is that your mission must go ahead
now, although the information is incomplete, be-
fore the Arcadians get wind of it. But the knowledge
that did get through is crucial. The building that
houses the queen computer on Arcadion can be
entered by using a numerical code of nine binary
digits; and the underground leaders on each planet
may know something to help you discover what the
number is. The missing details are who the under-

14

————————EEEEEE——————LLlrlrl ll
CONTACT WITH ALIENS

The three Arcadian species that you will come
across in this adventure are each different to look at.
More important, they have different ways of behav-
ing and thinking, some of which humans find dif-
ficult to understand, even after years of contact.
Here is a brief description of each species, taken
from the ‘SAROS Manual’:

All three species are roughly humanoid in appearance: they
have two arms and two legs, because evolution beyond a
certain limited stage requires manual dexterity, which in
turn needs an upright posture. All the spectes have two
fingers on each ‘hand’ and two toes on each ‘foot’.

Northern Arcadians are about three metres tall af the most.
They are spindly, with more joints m their arms and legs
than humans. Their heads are squat and squarish, but thetr
most distinctive physical feature is a thick, muscular tail,
tipped with a vicious spike, which 1s an extremely useful
weapon in battle, and is also used for balance. Northern
Arcadians are matter-of-fact, military types, who like
noting so much as a good massacre. They are not very
intelligent, which is why they are the casiest Arcadians to
understand

Southern Arcadians are like a roly-poly version of the
Northerners — but do not let that fool you: they can fight if
they want to. Their chief physical differences fram the

16

Northerners are that they have no tail, they are shorter and
squatter, and they have two antennae. The purpose of these
antennae is not clear, but the most likely explanation is that
they pick up feelings. They use these antennae in a variety
of ways, many of which are too subtle for a human to
understand; so it is easy to offend them. They tend to be
sensitive, anyway. They prefer to talk in a very poetic way,
which can be confusing at times, though they seem to
understand one another perfectly, However, they have
learned to ‘talk down’ to insensitive humans.

Central Arcadians are the most powerful species, and are
the most human to look at: they are usually under twa
metres tall, and have the same number of joints in their
arms and legs as humans. Apart from their small tail, the
most obvious difference between Central Arcadians and
humans is their elongated head, which tends to jut out at
right angles from their shoulders. The head has a pulpy
crest of tissue. Physically, they are by far the weakest of the
three species, but they make up for this by their skill. In
battle, for instance, they are often able to win by distracting
their opponent. Their thoughts tend to be very abstract, and
they quite often behave in a way that means something to
them but ts difficult for anyone else to underatarud: it is as if
they did not care whether others can follow such trains of
thought, This is just ome exanrple of how arrogant they are,

17

ABILITIES

Your mission involves travelling through the
depths of outer space. You must first determine
your strengths and weaknesses. For this you will
need two dice, and a pencil to record your scores on
the Adventure Sheet (pp. 28-9). As it is possible that
you will not successfully complete your mission on
your first attempt, you should write lightly so you
can rub out your notes, or you could take photo-
copies of the Adventure Sheet for future use.

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter the
total in the SKILL box of the Adventure Sheet. Your
SKILL score reflects your general fighting ability —
the higher the score, the better you are

Roll two dice. Add 12 to the number rolled and enter
the total in the STAMINA box. Your STAMINA score
reflects your will to survive, your determination and
your overall fitness: the higher your staMINA score,
the longer you will be able to survive.

There is also a LUCK box. Roll one die, add 6 and
enter the total in the Luck box. Your LucK score
indicates how naturally lucky a person you are.

For reasons that will be explained below, sx1LL,

18

STAMINA and LUCK scores keep changing during an
adventure. You must keep an accurate record of
these scores, so write small in the boxes or have an
eraser handy. But never rub out your /stitial scores.
Although you may be awarded additional sKILt,
STAMINA and LUCK points, these totals may never
exceed your Initial scores.

Restoring SKILL

Your SKILL score will not change much during an
adventure. Occasionally, a page may give instruc-
tions to increase or decrease your SKILL score.

Restoring STAMINA

Your STAMINA score will change a lot during your
adventure, as you fight aliens and undertake
arduous tasks. As you near your goal, your sTAMI-
NA level may be dangerously low, in which case
battles will be particularly risky, so be careful! The
most usual ways of restoring STAMINA are rest and
food, which you will have to buy: you will have

opportunities for resting and eating during the
adventure. Healing of wounds will also be provided
for during the adventure, though more rarely; this
also restores STAMINA, of course.

Restoring LucK

Additions to and subtractions from your LUCK score
are awarded in the adventure according to circum-
stances. Your LUCK score will also change quite a bit
as you Test your Luck (see p. 25).

COMBAT

This adventure involves no combat encounters in
space. Under the Empire, humans are not permitted
weapons of any kind, and since you are travelling as
a merchant anyway, your ship is unarmed. Your
journeys between planets will be uneventful
as regards external danger -— apart from the odd
shower of meteors, but the ship’s force-field will
easily repel those.

Force-fields are effective for spaceships because
they work by resistance to speed: any missile
powerful enough to penetrate the hull of a
spaceship can be stopped by the ship’s field. Force-
fields cannot help individual beings: a missile slow
enough to penetrate a force-field may still be power-
ful enough to injure a human being or an Arcadian.
Besides, the equipment needed to produce an effec-
tive force-field is pretty bulky even in this age of
advanced miniaturization. There are other prob-
lems, too, such as the many obstacles which clutter
our environment and interfere with the field, and
the shock-waves caused by a field resisting a blast,
which can be nearly as harmful as the blastitself, for
soft-skinned creatures.

So there are no personal force-fields in the twenty-
fifth century, but there are plenty of lethal weapons
which have existed for centuries — guns, lasers,

21

_

phasers, photon grenades, gravity bombs and so
on, Many of these weapons are so lethal that they
presented a problem to the Arcadian authorities,
who constantly fear and expect rebellion. The prob-
lem was that, although humans are not permitted
weapons of any sort, if therr Arcadian masters
carried them the humans could occasionally over-
power Arcadians, seize their weapons, and build up
a powerful armoury. The solution was obvious:
once the Empire was reasonably stable, all lethal
weapons were brought back and stored on Arca-
dion, and all Arcadians were given less powerful
weapons: laser swords, electric whiplash swords
(‘whippies’, for short) and so on. In this way, even if
the occasional Arcadian did lose his weapon, it
would be no serious Joss

You have acquired a laser sword, by devious means,
It is quite easy to smuggle the laser sword through
checkpoints — so long as you are not too closely
searched — since, until it is achvated, the sword is no
more than a hand-sized hollow metal shaft, with a
couple of buttons on it; the complex miniature elec-
tronic works are hidden around the inside of the
shaft

So this is your weapon in this adventure. It and your
SKILL should be enough to face most of your op-
ponents, since they will be similarly armed. If you
are fortunate and make the right decisions, you may
acquire some more lethal weapons along the way;
on the other hand, you may meet an opponent

22

whose weapon is much better than yours. Unless
otherwise stated in the book, combat will be fought
as follows:

Record your opponent's SKILL and STAMINA scores
in the first empty Encounter Box on the Adventure
Sheet. The scores for each opponent are given in the
book at the time, Then the sequence of combat is:

1. Roll two dice once for the creature. Add its skILL
score. This total is its Attack Strength.

2. Determine your own Attack Strength in the same
way, by adding the roll to your sKILL score.

3. If your Attack Strength is higher than that of your
opponent, you have wounded it. Proceed to step
4. [fits Attack Strength is higher than yours, it has
wounded you, Proceed to step 5. If both Attack
Strengths are the same, you have avoided each
other’s blows — start the next Attack Round from
step 1 again.

4. You have wounded the alien, so subtract 2 points
from its STAMINA Score. You may use your LUCK
here to do additional damage (see p. 26).

. Your opponent has wounded you, so subtract 2
points from your own STAMINA score. You may
use LUCK at this stage to lessen the damage (see
Pp. 26).

6. Make the appropriate adjustments to your
opponent's or your own STAMINA scores (and
your LUCK score if you used LUCK).

7- Begin the next Attack Round (repeat steps 1-6).
This sequence continues until the STAMINA score
of either you or your opponent has been reduced

I

23

ee Se) eee
to zero (which is death). There is no Escape option
in this adventure.

Unarmed Combat

Since humans are invariably weaponless, unarmed
combat has been revived and has been developed
to a high degree of expertise. You know all the
pressure points and weak spots of the three
Arcadian species, as well as those of the humans;
and you know just how to use your own body to the
greatest effect, while using your opponent's own
weight and strength against himself. If you ever lose
your laser sword, or if the book instructs you, you
will be involved in unarmed combat in this adven-
ture as well. The conduct of unarmed combat is the
same as for armed combat, except for the following
‘sudden death’ rule:

Whenever your Attack Strength is higher than your
opponent's, roll one extra die. If you roll 1-5, you
reduce your opponent’s STAMINA as usual, But if
you roll 6, your opponent has been unable to pre-
vent you from finding a pressure point which will
either kill him or leave him unconscious. In either
case, the fight is immediately over. Note that this
rule normally applies only to you: the Arcadians are
not so skilled in unarmed combat, not having had
the need to become so. If you meet an opponent
who is as skilled in unarmed combat as you, and to
whom, therefore, the same rule applies, the book
will tell you.

Fighting More Than One Opponent

If you are faced with more than one opponent in a
particular encounter, the instructions on that page
will tell you how to conduct the battle. Sometimes
vou will treat them as a single opponent; sometimes
vou will have to fight each one in turn.

LUCK

At various times during your adventure, either in
battles or in situations where you could be lucky or
unlucky (details of these are given on the pages
themselves), you may call on your LUcK to make the
outcome more favourable. But beware! Using LUCK
isarisky business and if you are unlucky, the results
could be disastrous.

The procedure for using your Lucx is as follows.
Roll two dice. If the number rolled is equal to or less
than your current LUCK score, you have been Lucky,
and the result will go in your favour. If the number
rolled is higher than your current LUCK score, you
have been Unlucky, and will have to pay the
penalty.

25

:
ei

i ee

This procedure is known as Testing your Luck. Each
time you Test your Luck, you must subtract 1 point
from your current LUCK score. You will soon realize
that the more you rely on your Luck, the more risky
it will become. If you ever run out of LUCK, any time
the book tells you to Test your Luck, you are auto-
matically Unlucky.

Using Lucx in Battles

In battles, the book will not give you the option of
Testing your Luck, as it does on other occasions, but
the optionis there in any battle. The effect of Luckin
battles is as follows:

Suppese in an Attack Round you have just
wounded your opponent. You may now Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, you have inflicted a more
serious injury than normal, and may subtract an
exira 2 points from your opponent’s STAMINA

However, if you are Unlucky, the injury turns out to
be a mere graze and, instead of the normal 2 points
of STAMINA to be subtracted from your opponent,
you may subtract only 1.

But suppose your opponent has just wounded you.
Again, you may Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, you
have managed to avoid the full force of the blow,
and need only subtract 1 point from your STAMINA,
instead of the normal 2. If you are Unlucky, you
have taken a more serious wound, and must reduce
your STAMINA by an extra 1 point.

26

EQUIPMENT AND MONEY

~

You will be an undercover agent, so you can carry
hardly anything with you: equipment would arouse
suspicion. Apart from your money and your
weapon, you will have to acquire everything else
you may need to complete your mission during
your trip, including other weapons. You have an
anti-grav pack, in which you can keep up to six of
the items you will come across in this adventure,
without loss of STAMINA. However, you may be
advised, before leaving a planet, to get rid of any-
thing you think you may not be able to smuggle on
to the next planet.

SAROS has given you 2,000 credits with which to
start your adventure. Used wisely, this should be
enough to pay for extra equipment, board and
lodging during your mission. You may be able to
acquire more during your adventure. What you
have and what you spend should be entered in the
appropriate box on the Adventure Sheet. This money
is kept in a money-belt around your waist. If you
Tun out of money, and meet a situation where you
need to spend money to continue, you have failed in
your mission,

27
SKILL STAMINA LUCK
livtral Justia? Taitial
Skii= Sanna lLack=
CODE MONEY

CLUES

NOTES and EQUIPMENT COLLECTED

N=

as a =" g—

‘9 a
as
front

ENCOUNTER BOXES

—

ae = > ——

Suill=— Stiif= Shit=
Shiming= Stumina= Staming=
Skit= Siiit= Shiull=
Staming= Stam ng= Stumtvtas
Shiif= Sifts Skill=
Sfamina= Stamina = Stamina»
i

)

|

{ |

1
You settle comfortably into the padded pilot's seat
of your spaceship, strap yourselfin and examine the
instrument panel. This is remarkably simple, con-
sisting mainly of a computer terminal and several
screens. The mechanisms of the alpha-zirtdium sys-
tem are hidden deep within the bowels of the craft,
and there is no need for you to have anything to do
with them: even if something did go wrong, your
robot engineers would soon sort it out. The ship’s
computer has been pre-programmed to take you to
Tropos and Jand there

Now you ask the computer to check all life-support
systems throughout the ship. Within seconds its
tinny voice’ responds: ‘Everything is functioning
correctly.’ You contact base control to tell them you
are ready. The ship’s main support towers are
towed away by massive robo-trucks. You flick the
switch which activates the drive-apparatus — and
vou're off! Within minutes, the ill effects of the first
thrust required for take-off die down, as you leave
Earth’s exosphere and enter the inky blackness of
space. The gravidrags are automatically triggered,
so that gravity within the ship is kept the same as on
Earth, allowing you and your robots to move about
freely

You switch on the rearview screen, to watch Earth
getting smaller behind you; white cloud formations
swirl, and the sun glints off the northern ice-cap.
hough you have often seen this sight before on
2

trips to Mercury and Venus, it never fails to excite

you, and this time you feel homesick as well. Will

you ever see Earth again? Your mission is so vital
. .and so dangerous.

Time passes. After a few hours one of the screens
flickers into life. The computer is alerting you to the
presence of another spacecraft, which is keeping a
constant distance away from you and seems to be
shadowing you. Will you order the computer to take
evasive action (turn to 48), or continue on your way
(turn to 398)?

Your only chance is to rush the guards at one of the
main entrances. You choose the eastern entrance,
because there are fewer guards there. Your first
assault takes them completely by surprise, since
you waited until they were all looking the other
way, and you cut down two of them. This leaves
you with only one, and he’s a fairly small
Southerner.

3-4

STAMINA 8

GUARD SKILL 6

If you win in four Attack Rounds, tum to 263; if after
four Attack Rounds you haven't killed the guard,
turn to 34.

3
Porky’s computer is his pride and joy. You will have

to offer him something — a personal massage robot,
if you have it; otherwise 400 credits will do. If you do
not have the robot or the money — or if you do not
want to pay him — you will have to fight him in
unarmed combat.

PORKY

If you win the fight, or if you paid his price, turn
to 119.

SKILL 6 STAMINA 10

You slump down to rest. At least you'll get some
STAMINA back. You doze off and, when you wake
up, you may restore 1 STAMINA point. You wake up
very suddenly. What is that rustling sound? Franti-
cally, you peer through the gloom, only to see, to

5-7

your horror, innumerable eyes glowing maliciously
in your direction. They belong to a Radician insect,
whose closest Earth equivalent is a huge spider. You
must fight this vile underworld creature. In fact, itis
not difficult to defeat, and has only been released to
discourage you from staying where you are.

RADICIAN SPIDER
When you have killed it, turn to 71.

SKILL 5 STAMINA 6

Clearly, the Arcadian is saying in her roundabout
way that the Fission Chips is just north of the
Temple of the Five Suns, which can be seen from the
street, so you can easily find your way. If you have
not already done so, you pop into the grocer’s shop,
spending 20 credits on food which replenishes your
STAMINA by 4 points. Then turn to 204.

6

The problem with this is that you have only one
mine, and its blast will not knock out ail three
computers. Which will you choose: the left com-
puter (tum to 203), the right one (tur to 51), or the
one against the wall opposite the door (turn to 139)?
If you have an alternative, you may prefer to return
to 381 and choose again.

7
Will you go on to the main road, although Arcadian
patrols are likely to come and investigate the dis-

§-11

turbance (turn to 132)? Or will you run back along
the side-street to renew your contact with the
underground (turn to 303)?

8
There is another passage heading south. Will you
take it (turn to 384} or continue straight on (turn
to 23)?

You feel wretched, having killed two fellow human
beings, but what else could you do? You pick up
your sword. Will you stop and search the house
(turn to 117), or will you leave to try to find the
Fission Chips (turn to 132)?

10
If you are carrying a staff with you, turn to 49;
otherwise, turn to 147.

1
The argument soon breaks up; someone tells a joke,
and they all roar with laughter, the best of friends
once more. Their camaraderie makes you feel
ionely, being so far from home and burdened with a
mission which you can talk to no one about. One of
the students notices that you are a bit down in the
mouth and comes over to the bench where you have
eone to be miserable on your own. She introduces
herself as Mehita and asks what's up. You ate
unprepared for friendliness — even heroes like your-

AP reel eer
ee” a |

A ah A

—_

|

/ M4; y

(fs
4 fhe
ghia”

12-14

self get moody — and find yourself wanting to con-
fide in her. Will you do this (turn to 97) or not (turn
to 202)?

42
You find 55 credits and some food, but before vou
have time to search the body any further, the door
opens and three more humans appear, Will you
fight them (turn to 80), or let them escort you inside
(turn to 145)?

13
Roll one die. If the number is even, turn to 140; if itis
odd, turn to 67.

14

You are bitten by a Saw-toothed Rat, The teeth of
this unpleasant creature are designed to give an
excellent grip on its victim ~in this case two of your
‘lingers. You only succeed in dislodging the little
horror by withdrawing your hand and breaking the
creature's back on the rock. Roll one die. If the
number is even, turn to 92; if itis odd, turn to 331.

15-18

15
Fortunately, the corridor outside is deserted: the
students are at their lectures, and no guard passes
by to hear the noise. Turn to 66,

16

No Arcadian is going to just hand a sword over to
you; the only way you're going to get one off an
Arcadian ts by means of an ambush. You watch the
movements of the guards fora while, and find that
your best chance is a remote passage which is
patrolled by only one guard ata time. As a guard is
walking along it, you creep up behind him. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 367; if you are
Unlucky, turn to 224.

ty
Fortunately, the room is sound-proofed — no doubt
so that the screams of torture-victims do not disturb
the spaceport. You draw your sword and leap at the
policeman: you are just in time to prevent him
pressing a buzzer to summon the guards. Be careful:
he fights dirty!

SECRET POLICEMAN = sKILL 7 STAMINA 10
If you win without being wounded twice, turn to

291. But if you are wounded twice, turn to 328.

18
Having no food, your body becomes more vulner-
able to the cold, and you can hardly sleep at all for

19-20

trying to keep warm, Gain only 1 STAMINA point. In
the morning you follow a path heading roughly
north-east until it divides. Will you branch right
(turn to 296) or left (turn to 171)?

19

His remark was an offer to show you around; to this
your reply is an acceptance, so you are Jumbered
with him. Your disappointment is obvious to his
South Arcadian sensitivity, and he is bad tempered
with you and somewhat hostile. Nevertheless, the
archaeological exhibits are fascinating. It seems that
there was a civilization on Radix before the human
colonists arrived in the twenty-second century,
which utterly destroyed all its major centres early
in the twenty-first century in an all-out phacium
war. Phacium bombs leave no traces, but a number
of objects from scattered outposts survived.
Archaeologists have even pieced together evidence
that suggests that these earlier Radicians used to
send saucer-shaped scouts around the galaxy.

You spend an enjoyable time looking around. When
vou have finished, wil] you ask the watchman what
is through the other door (turn to 380), or should
you now go to the university (turn to 146)?

20
There is no reply. You wait for a bit and then
cautiously open the door, but there is nothing and
no one in sight down the corridor. Mystified, you
return to bed. Turn to 247.
21-22

21
This was not a good choice. Its deafening howl
distracts you as much as your opponents, so no
sooner have you switched it on than you hurl
it away to smash in a corner. Cross it off your
_ Equipment List before returning to the scene of
combat.

| You step out into the fields, towards a group of
humans who are working about 100 metres away.
_ But you are only halfway there when a whirring
noise above you and to your left makes you look up.
A small, silver, streamlined craft is heading towards
you. You dive into the shrubs as it approaches and,
crouching, head for the cover of the middle of the
field. But the alien is tracking you: wherever you go,
it hovers overhead. Suddenly it sprays flame-—but at
the shrubs, not at you! Again and again flames
shoot out, until you are surrounded by fire. The
smoke is dense: you cannot see your enemy. What
will you do: stay where you are and pray (turn
to 53), or try to break through the circle of fire (turn

to 216)?

2 eee, |= eee

23-25

23
It is too Jate. The search-party is upon you. Your

mission ends here, in the dust and mildew of the
cellars.

24

You have managed to get rid of the two North
Arcadians in the patrol, but must fight the other two
Arcadians simultaneously. Choose which one you
are attacking, and conduct a normal Attack Round
against him, The other gets a free attack against you:
roll for Attack Strengths as usual, but nothing
happens unless iis Attack Strength is higher, in
which case he wounds vou.

. SKILL STAMINA
First ARCADIAN 7 8
Second ARCADIAN 6 6

If you win, turn to 381.

25
You are escorted through a maze of underground
tunnels back to the hostel, where the guard has
been trebled since you were Jast there. You sleep
deeply (restore 2 STAMINA points), The next morn-
ing, you return to the spaceport. Turn to 213.

26-29

26
This is the wrong reply. Such a worker would be
wearing a blue uniform, and carrying a tool-kit. You
are taken away for interrogation, from which you
will never emerge.

"4

The feeling of being followed grows to a certainty as
the same cab remains behind you all the way back to
your hotel. And once you get there, you discover
simultaneously that your pursuers are hostile, and
that they have a comlink, For you are immediately
confronted by a whole squadron of Arcadian police,
who cut you down without mercy.

28

‘That noise outside was this stranger killing old
Corvus,’ says one of your escort. This makes the
man behind the desk look up. ‘That’s quite impress-
ive,’ he says, callously. ‘Corvus was obviously not
very important. He was on a job, though, wasn’t
he?’ he asks one of the men, who confirms that he
was. Will you ask what's going on (turn to 353), OF
keep quiet (turn to 321)?

29
After waiting for a while, you decide this is a waste
of time — you can always check in later. You go
upstairs. The whole of the first floor is a long dormi-
tory, which is remarkable for its filth, gloom and
lack of company. Several beds are made up, but

BO i ee

30-33

their occupants are out at this time of day. There is
one other human, however, who is sitting sadly on
a truckle-bed, his body heaving with sobs. Will you
go and grab a bed near him, and strike up conversa-
tion (turn to 354), or will you settle yourself far away
{turn to 60)?

30
You are on the eastern side of the spaceport. There
are various paths which you could take. Will you go
east (turn to 245), north (turn to 342) or south (turn
to 181)?

31
You ask for a microcomputer to be brought up to
vour room and are told that this will be done simply
as part of the service. Turn to 119.

32
He soon comes over and unlocks your fetters; your
first move is to imprison him in the same seat. You
eat, and rest for a few hours: restore 4 STAMINA
points. Then tum to 292.

33
At Customs, you tell the Southern Arcadian duty

officer that you are a merchant bound for Radix, and
she crosses your name off the register of off-planet
humans on Tropos. Then she orders you to hand
over your pack. You doso, and are dismayed to find
that the pack will be looked through not by this

34-35

Southern Arcadian, who is likely to be more easy-
going, but by a hatchet-faced Central Arcadian,
whose multicoloured crest shows that he belongs to
a high military rank. Most of your equipment is
harmless enough to pass the inspection, but do you
still have either or both of a coil of rope and an
infra-red scanner? If you have both, turn to 210; if
you have one of these items, turn to 339; if you have
neither, turn to 374,

34
The guard has delayed you just long enough for you
to be caught by the relief squadron, against whom
you stand no chance,

‘You have it, then,’ you say, and hurl the drink in his
face. He glowers at you. ‘Allright,’ he says. ‘If that’s
what you want.’ A space is cleared on the floor;
humans and Arcadians alike crowd round for the
spectacle of a brawl. But before you begin this
unarmed combat, Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
some of the drink — which was drugged - went into

36-38

your opponent’s mouth, and you may reduce his
SKILL by 1 point; otherwise fight him with his usual
attributes:

BRAWLER

You will find him expertin unarmed combat: the sud-
den death rule of p. 24 applies to himas wellas you. If
you win, you have no choice but to leave the club.
You are slumping dejectedly in a nearby doorway
when rough hands suddenly grab you. Turn to 272.

SKILL 7 STAMINA 12

36
You manage to whip out your sword and bring it
down on the machine, before being cut down by his
phaser. The last thing you hear is him saying, ‘Well,
I can always build another one.’

37
To keep up appearances, you buy a drink of the

alcoholic mouthwash they sell humans (deduct 10
credits from your Adventure Sheet). You notice the
doorman going over to a group in the corner and
whispering something to a young woman, who
flashes a glance at you, and then gets up to leave.
Does this strike you as suspicious, so that you
follow her (turn to 75), or will you remain where you
are for a bit, and then ask the barman where the
visiphone booth is (turn to 81)?

38
‘Yes, I thought as much,’ he replies. ‘If you have to
39-41

ask me all these questions, you can’t ask the officials,
for some reason, can you? Come with me: I know
someone who can help you.’ Will you go with him
(turn to 399), or leave him and try elsewhere for a
sword (tum to 137)?

The corridor gradually curves around to the left
until you are heading west instead of east. Eventu-
ally you come to a junction where you could go
north (turn to 277) or straight on (turn to 23).

40
Curiously, there is no immediate sign of the shining
object the bird was carrying when you first spotted
it. Then you notice two deep fissures in the ledge,
into which you could insert your hand. Will you try
the left fissure (turn to 14), or the right one (turn to
355)? Alternatively, you could decide that anything
could be living in such cracks and that it would be
best to return to the path without taking any further
risks (turn to 147).

41
He takes you to another house in the street, where
you are blindfolded and led down some steps. Then
you lose your sense of direction, as you are led quite
a long way through tunnels that twist and turn,
several doorways, and part of the sewage system, to
judge by the smell, dankness and weird echoing of
your footsteps. The underground on Tropos seems

42-44

to be literally that, and to have a system of connect-
ing houses. Then, without warning, a heavy blow
descends on the back of your head, and you sink
into unconsciousness. Turn to 207.

42
As 500n as you touch the treasure, you are caught,
In attempting to take seme of it, you show that you
believe in this illusion, which lowers your defences
and allows the computer to trap you. You can feel it

in your mind as a second presence, and will never
shake it off.

43
Your ‘trial’ is a farce. The Arcadians are sure some-

thing fishy is going on. What would a merchant
from Earth be doing in a professor’s room on Radix?
And why would he have a sword? You are sen-
tenced to death, but the police tell you that the
sentence will be commuted if you tell them what
you know about the underground on Radix. Will
you spill the beans (turn to 345) or not (turn to 368)?

bh Seah a si

——

44
‘I’m sorry. I don’t understand,’ you say. ‘Oh, you

humans. You are as insensitive as glumphig’ — this is

45-46

a variety of Arcadian snail — ‘I mean that it is just
north of the Temple of the Five Suns, idiot. And I
almost forgot: there’s 50 per cent HAT, Human
Added Tax, on the items you bought.’ You don’t
believe her — she’s obviously just making you pay
for insulting her— but you cannot afford to cross her
any further. Cross the right amount of money off
your Adventure Sheet, and lose 1 LUCK point too.

It is easy to find your way now, as the temple can be
seen from the street. If you have not already done
50, you pop into the grocer’s shop, spending 20
credits on food which replenishes your STAMINA by
4 points. Then turn to 204.

45
‘I don’t know what your game is,’ says the doorman

through the peep-hole, ‘but you’re not welcome
here.’ He slams the peep-hole shut, Will you leave
the club (turn to 390), or draw your sword and
smash the locks (turn to 366)? You can draw your
sword only if you still have it, of course.

46
When you come to, you have difficulty focusing on
who you are, where you are and what you're doing
here anyway. But you can make out the blurred
shape of a human bending over you. Then you
remember ~ your mission! ‘How long have I been
out?’ you ask, trying to get up.

‘He’s coming round, Dorado,’ calls the man.

a

47
‘Coming, Mizar,’ a voice replies

“You’ve been out for about forty-five minutes,’ says
the first man, who is evidently Mizar. ‘And the
Arcadians are almost upon us.’

Forty-five minutes! Then there is no time to lose:
you will scarcely make it back to the spaceport in
time for your flight! You must send one of the men
to defend the pass and buy you enough time to talk
to the other and escape. Will you send Dorado away
(turn to 175) or Mizar (turn to 255)?

47
Customs is no problem on Radix. They are so de-

lighted to have the ziridium that you are welcomed
by the resident Arcadians, as much as any Arcadian
is capable of welcoming any human. It seems that
your load of ziridium was needed to complete a
para-scientific project of theirs. You find that you
have two fuil days — it is now early morning — until
you must leave for Halmuris, Once you have reg-
istered, you make your way out of the spaceport,
which is so highly mechanized that evena terrestrial
like yourself feels strange. The inhabitants do not
believe in doing any work unless they really have to.
There are robots everywhere, some of them soph-
isticated state-of-the-art models that can almost
think for themselves. Moving pavements criss-
cross the spaceport, which actually make you im-
patient, because they move slowly enough to allow
stepping from one to another, yet you feel decidedly

48-49

springy on this planet, as the gravity is slightly less
than on Earth. You soon discover, however, that
this does not in fact help you to move any more
quickly, since you need some practice to achieve the
correct coordination.

The personal monorail system is all you could have
hoped for, and you are soon gliding smoothly, but
at speed, towards the only major town on the
planet, where the underground must be located.
On the way you call up on to the screen a list of
hotels where humans can stay. Only two names
sound attractive, one which has gained three stars
from the Radician quality assessors, and one which
they haven‘t bothered to comment on at all. Will
you stay at the Zodiac for 375 credits a night (turn to
89), or at Porky’s Palace for 50 credits a night (turn to
101)?

48

However much you twist and turn, you cannot
shake off your follower. Eventually, you simmer
down and return to a direct route for Tropos. The
rest of the journey is uneventful; you pass the time
eating, sleeping, exercising and playing chess with
the computer’s lowest logical mode. Your shadow is
never too far away to keep an eye on you, and as you
approach Tropos, he accelerates to land before you.
Turn to 164.

49
If you were bitten by a Saw-toothed Rat, tum to 98;

otherwise turn to 232.

59-54

50
You quickly find the right key among the watch-
man’s bunch and climb up into a side-street. From
here you can lose yourself in the university. Turn to
146

51
Turn to 177

52
You rush around the corner and are impaled on the
swords and tails of the waiting Arcadians. Your
mission ends here.

53
God helps those who help themselves — and you

have not. The agony is excruciating. Fortunately ~ if
vou can call it that ~ you wil] asphyxiate before you
roast.

54
The crowd is on its feet; the applause is thunderous;

antennae flash in approval. As the corpse of the
Scabrok is dragged away, leaving a slimy trail of
green blood behind it, an alien, whom you recog-
mize as the prison commandant, enters the arena
and congratulates you — once he has taken away
vour sword; “You have performed well and given
pleasure to our people, Earthling,’ he says, ‘and we
will keep our side of the bargain. You may return to
your ship.’ Turn to 191.

55-56

55
Obviously, the device stimulates the imaginative

part of the brain, because everything that happens
next is like a strange dream.

The episodes which follow are easiest to describe in
terms of physical combat, even though they are
happening in your mind, The result is the same: if
you lose any of the following encounters, you might
as well have died physically, because you will be a
puppet of the Arcadian computer and will have no
mind of your own.

You seem to be wandering in a mansion with many
rooms. Out of nowhere, a monster bars your way;
the passages behind you disappear, and there is
no other way forward except by defeating it. The

monster is a Sphinx, the guardian of knowledge.
SPHINX SKILL 8 STAMINA 8

If you win, turn to 251.

You wait five minutes ... ten minutes. What is
going on? The answer arrives too soon — eight
Arcadian thugs are advancing towards you, four

57-59

from each end of the street. Will you hopelessly
draw your sword to defend yourself (turn to 264),
hammer on the door Grus went through (tum to
364), or try another house (turn to 121)?

You find a secluded part of the perimeter, slip the
harness of the small jet pack over your shoulders
and press the ignition button. It coughs . . . and
fails. But it starts on the second attempt, and lifts
you easily over the ten-metre fence, before failing
again! You fall heavily to the ground. Test your Luck,
If you are Lucky, turn to 359; if you are Unlucky,
turn to 304.

58
You mutter some feeble excuse and leave the secret-
ary’s office. Will you go to the Science Floor, if you
haven't already been there (turn te 266), or leave the
university (turn to 235)?

59
As you grapple with Musca, the phaser goes off —
and wounds him fatally. The mind of the dying
Arcadian seems to clear; he looks up at you and
says, ‘Arsenal. . . 110.’ This doesn’t mean an awful

OO ee eee

60-61

lot to you. You are now getting near Arcadion, so
turn to 118.

60
It is always difftcult, particularly for an active type
like yourself, to cope with another person’s un-
happiness. You make up your bed, so that no one
else takes it, and creep out of the room. Lose 1 LUCK
point for being hard-hearted, Outside on the street,
you must look for the Fission Chips. You know that
north heads out of town, so you turn south, Turn to

64

No cables can be seen: if this organic machine needs
them, they must be behind the computer consoles
somewhere. But you can remove the casing of a
computer, if you like, to see what you can find closer
to the heart of the machine (turn to 325). Or you can
return to 381 and choose again, if you have another
choice to make.

62

The corridor bends round to the west, until it joins
another corridor, where you may head south, from
where you can hear the eerie sound of water drip-
ping in the dust-muffled silence (turn to 154), or
north (turn to 23). You'd better be quick: the search-
party is right behind you, by the sounds of it.

63
The grenade explodes, destroying the killer robot.
You are free to make your way back to your hotel.
Turn to 309.

64
He is very thorough, but finds nothing to worry
him. You need some time to think how to contact
Bellatrix. You go over to the bar and buy a glass of
the alcoholic mouthwash which humans are
allowed to drink (deduct 10 credits); then you look
around for somewhere to sit, Could any of these
people be Bellatrix, or at least members of the
~~ * *

pe rat the
“fy ,

c
(deh tt F —
PE pts! |

/ —

65~68

underground? You decide to join a group of hu-
mans who are sitting in a corner, because they are
watching you very closely. Turn to 305.

65
‘Free you? Yes, of course. | mean, why not?’ he
mumbles, but only wanders around the room. Will
you tell him to hurry up (turn to 241), or will you be
patient (turn to 32)?

66
You soon find a rack of computer disks marked
‘University Records’. You are only interested in the
two current ones, and discard the rest. Will you look
through them now (turn to 174), or take them away
with you (turn to 316)?

67
Your search produces nothing except some very
strange looks. Eventually you slump in a doorway
to rest. Time is getting on; you will have to return to
the hostel soon. Just as you are getting up to go, the
door behind you opens and rough hands grab you.
Turn to 156.

68
Your inquisitors exchange significant glances — or so
vou assume from what you can make out behind the
lamp. “The trial is over,’ says Bellatrix, ‘Anyone who
would so readily kill another being, with no evi-
dence of guilt, goes against our code of honour. We
69-70

do not think you are a traitor but, as the interim
human government on Tropos, we take it upon
ourselves to keep you here. There is no point to your
mission if its success is gained by amoral people like
yourself. You can work for us, if you like, and we
will educate you.’ You have failed in your mission.
By the time you have convinced Bellatrix of your
worth, the opportunity will have slipped away.

69
The butt of his phaser connects squarely with your
head. When you come to, deduct 2 STAMINA points,

and turn to 116.

70

‘What?’ you say in surprise. ‘Are you trying to trick
me? Cornices are high on a building, not in the
foundations.’ ‘Of course, of course,’ says the
Arcadian. ‘Must be the booze.’ But you’re sure she
was trying to expose your cover, She goes on to tell
you that the demolished buildings have been des-
troved by a robot, called the ‘Street Fighter’, which
the police use against enemies of Arcadion—at least,

that’s what you think she means by ‘lone wolves
baying at the moon’! The drink perhaps makes her

71

say more than she should, because she seems to
disapprove of using the killer robot, especially
when the enemies are only students. This gives you
the clue you were waiting for, and you soon leave
for the university. When you arrive, will you plunge
straight in (turn to 146), or wait around outside fora
while (turn to 178)?

71

You move on down the corridor. The gloom be-
comes less and less, and you search the place
thoroughly as you walk. But there are no escape-
routes. Eventually you reach a sturdy door, with a
large grille. Will you try to barge the door down
(turn to 360), or wait to see what may happen (turn
to 301)?

72-73

72
‘All right,’ Gus says eventually, overriding Indus’s
protests. He lets you go and sprints over to get the
sword. ‘No funny business now,’ he says. “Remem-
ber, we have the sword. Out you go.’ As you are
shoved out of the door, you hear Indus on the
visiphone, telling the police where you are. You
leave quickly and return to the main road. Until you
find another weapon, all your battles must be con-
ducted according to the rules for unarmed combat.
Turn to 132.

You eat your food and go to sleep; restore 4 sTAM-
INA points. In the morning you follow a path head-
ing roughly north-east, until it divides. Will you
branch right (turn to 296) or left (turn to 171)?

74-75

74
You ring Professor Zacharias at work—no reply, But

you find his home number in the directory and ring
him there. He has heard about the theft of the disks,
and you identify yourself by showing him the print-
out of his file. He is satisfied that you are who you
say you are, and you make an appointment for
eleven o'clock the next morning, in his room at the
university. Gain 1 LUCK point and turn to 134

75
Before the doorman has a chance to return to his

post, you are out of the door and following the
woman. You are just in time to see her disappearing
round a corner; but by the time you get there, she
has vanished. You search around for a bit, with no
success. Will you now return to the club (turn to 45),
or continue searching (turn to 13)?

76-77

There is really not a lot you can achieve here. Will
vou wait for a bit anyway (turn to 244), go down to
the Science Floor if you haven’t already been there
(turn to 266), or leave the university (turn to 235)?

77
Porky is out on the steps, sunning himself and

admiring his jewels; he is adorned with rings,
bracelets and a pair of ear-rings. You sit down and
chat with him, exchanging views about conditions
on Earth and on Radix. He tells you that in some
ways life on Radix has not been altered by the
Empire, because the economy has been fixed so that
humans can live in the style to which they were
accustomed. Nevertheless, of course, there is some
resentment at the lack of freedom, which is sup-
ported fairly openly by the students and staff of the
university. They are not very successful, however,
since they are concerned with abstract freedom,
while the ordinary people of Radix just want an end
to having to work for the Arcadians, and a return
to the system where robots did all the work for
humans. As it is, both humans and robots serve
Arcadians, for the most part. While you talk to
Porky, you find yourself changing your opinion of
the Radician humans: the corruption and sloth for
which they are famed throughout the galaxy isjusta
weird sign of their devotion to an ideal of self-
sufficiency. You realize that human nature does
indeed adapt itself to circumstances on different

78

planets, and that therefore humans born and bred
on other planets can be almost as alien as Arcadians
or other species. The discipline of Tropos and the
devotion of Radix are the result of living on those
planets.

Your conversation with Porky has been most worth-
while, and should enable you not to misjudge
people you come across on this planet. Gain 1 Luck
point. You decide that your best bet is to visit the
university next, so you take your leave. The mono-
rail takes you near the main entrance. Will you
plunge straight in (turn to 146), or wait around
outside for a while (turn to 178)?

78
Your way to the spaceship is barred by two guards.
Your heart leaps in dismay and fear, but it turns out
that they are just waiting for your ‘passenger’ to
embark. You see two Central Arcadians cross the
field and enter your spaceship; neither of them
returns It looks as though you have two passen-
gers, not one. Then the guards allow you on board

On the way to Arcadion, you may restore half as
much STAMINA as your current score, rounding odd
numbers down, and remembering not to exceed
your fnitial score. Remember also to restore the
SKILL point you Jost for the high gravity of Halmu-
ris. The two Arcadians keep pretty much to them-
selves during the voyage, but one night you are
awoken by arattling at your cabin door. Will youask

79-81

who itis, without unlocking the door (turn to 20), or
throw open the door (turn to 350)?

79
You quickly position this so that its powerful beam

will distract your opponents. It will last five Attack
Rounds before being knocked over and smashed
(cross it off your Equipment List), but you may
reduce your first opponent's SKILL by 1 point for six
Attack Rounds, since the after-effects are just as
distracting as the strobe itself. Now return to the
scene of combat and resolve the fight

80
Unfortunately, one of them has a sword, and you
are no match for them all. You are beaten and cut to
the ground.

81

The visiphone booth is behind a screen, which is
decorated with a moving hologram of Arcadians at
work in an office. You always find it reassuring
when aliens behave just like humans — even Arca-
dians want to ring home sometimes and claim
they’re working late at the office! Did you try tocatch
a taxi here from the spaceport? If so, turn to 362; if
not, turn to 311.

ll in

82-84

§2
The door crashes into him and sends his phaser
flying across the room — to near Musca! You and the
other Arcadian draw your swords simultaneously.

ARCADIAN

If you win, turn to 261.

SKILL 7 STAMINA 8

83
Acouple of Arcadian guards look you up and down,
refer to the giant screen and check the picture in
their miniature visiscreens — then they start coming
towards you, barking instructions into their com-
municators. You have had it.

84

You turn away, only to find your way barred by the
black marketeer’s man. ‘Just before you go,’ says the
oily voice of the black marketeer behind you, ‘tell
me what youare up to, I may want to be cutin.’ This
treachery makes you angry. But anger lends speed
to your reactions: you cut down the man at the door,
before he has time to do more than twitch, and spin
to face the black marketeer. He moves fast for a
heavy man.

BLACK MARKETEER SKILL 6 STAMINA 10

During the fight, a crate is knocked over and falls
into the air-conditioning unit, which sparks and
then catches fire, By the time the fight is over, the
fire is blazing. If you win, turn to 122.

85-88

85

He unlocks the door and you both go down some
stairs into the dusty cellars, which are full of objects
in packing-cases, show-cases, or just loose. You
look around the first cellar for a while, and then
stifle an excited cry. There, in a show-case marked
‘Purpose Unknown - Possibly Religious Artefacts’,
is something which you with your training in
weaponry recognize asa primitive baryon grenade —
and it looks undamaged! You must have it. But the
watchman, whom you have insulted, is on the
look-out for anything suspicious, and picks up
with his antennae that something is going on. He
whips out his sword and slashes your arm. Lose
2 STAMINA and 1 SKILL point and turn to 215,

86
You toss the grenade and duck back down the stairs
to avoid the blast. When you climb back up, there is
little sign of the patrol —or the doors, for that matter.
Turn to 381.

87
The door has no handle on the inside. You have no
choice but to press one of the buttons on the desk.
Turn to 276.

83
You have to backtrack quite a way to find a passage
through the cliffs towards the building. But you
manage to circle round to the building without

89

being detected. You watch for some time, but see no
guards, so you boldly enter. The station is almost
deserted; there are no humans in sight, and itis easy
to avoid being spotted by the few Arcadians. You
search around fora while, but find nathing. All this
time has been wasted, because if you are to get back
to the spaceport in ime for your flight, you will have
to leave now. You have failed to contact the under-
ground leader here and learn the final] three digits of
the code.

89
On the way to the hotel, you notice something odd
about the city: in some streets, whole houses have
been demolished, even though the surrounding
buildings are still standing. It is as if a localized
earthquake had struck. You soon arrive at the hotel,
which is extremely posh and luxurious. You check
in for one night (deduct 375 credits). While you are
enjoying a private sauna, the expense begins to
seem worth it. Restore 1 STAMINA point. Eventu-
ally, feeling refreshed, you wander downstairs to
see what edible delights might be on offer, and to
give yourself time to think about how to contact the
underground. You can either eat in the bar, where

90-92

the cost is covered by the cost of your room (turn to
115), or, for an extra 40 credits, you can dine in the
restaurant (turn to 138).

go
You talk gently to Musca, trying to persuade him to
hand over the phaser, but he has become childish,
and stubbornly refuses. Will you try to grab it from
him (turn to 59), or continue the genHer approach
(turn to 130)?

g1
‘How much?’ they ask. ‘Five hundred credits,’ you
reply. “Not enough,’ they say, licking their lips. Will
you tell them that is all you have got (turn to 223), or
offer them more (turn to 148)?

g2
Itis your fighting arm that has been injured. Reduce
your STAMINA by 2 points, and your SxKILt. by 1. If
you have not yet done so, you may try the other
crack by turning to 355; if you decide that enough is
enough, and return to the path below to continue
your journey, turn to 10.

93-94

93
This group consists of rather friendly — or perhaps

just drunk — Southern Arcadians. You introduce
yourself humbly as a traveller from Earth and ex-
press curiosity about the number of demolished
houses in the city. But they avoid the question and
turn the conversation round to news from Earth.
This is frustrating, but you go along with it. As they
give you more drinks, you feel bolder and bolder,
until you pretend to have some knowledge of the
building trade, and reintroduce the topic of the
demolished buildings. ‘Well, personally, I blame
the cornices we use in our foundations,’ says one of
the Arcadians, ‘Do you use cornices in your founda-
tions on Earth?’ Will you answer ‘yes’ (turn to 248)
or ‘no’ (turn to 70)?

94
You laugh at the absurdity of it: you have been

offered knowledge, wealth and power, any of
which the computer can surely give, and have
resisted them all, As your laughter grows, the im-
aginary world dissolves, and you are back in the

—eE———>—Ee—_>—yxy>~yEEeEeyxE~ EE OEeELE————E—L—~>~—~—~—K—K——~—EEEEE—EE

95-96

Arcadian’s cabin, strapped to the seat, with the now
useless electrodes attached to your skull.

You glance over at the Arcadian. Your victory has
done something to him: he is gazing around the
room, as if searching for something he has lost. As
his eyes meet yours, a flicker of recognition crosses
his face and is gone. This is a delicate situation: he
may be close to total incompetence, but you are still
imprisoned in your seat, Will you order him to free
you (turn to 65), or wait for a passing robot (turn to
278)?

You turn away, disappointed (lose 1 LUCK point)
What can you do now? You slump in a nearby
doorway. After a few minutes, you realize that
you can only go back to the hostel and try again
tomorrow. Just as you get up to go, however, the
door behind you opens and rough hands grab you.
Will you put up a fight (turn to 156), or are you too
depressed to bother (turn to 272)?

Tern |

The black marketeer is well pleased with your work:
you have made him a tidy profit. You decide that it

97

is safe to ask about a sword. ‘No problem,’ he says.
‘I managed to get hold of a batch a couple of weeks
ago. Because you have worked for me, I'll let you
have it for only 200 credits.’ He sends his man — the
only other person in the room now — to get it. When
vou have it safely in your hands, you pay him and
turn to go. Turn to 84.

97
You tell her that you have heard the university

encourages revolutionary ideas, and that you need
to get in touch with someone who knows about this.
‘Is that all?” she laughs. ‘Listen, there are very, very
few students who would spy for the Arcadians.
Even those who aren’t actively involved in demon-
strations or anything aren’t unsympathetic. We’re
students — that’s what it’s all about. The only stu-
dents you have to watch out for are members of the
Black Eye group. I think you should go and have a
chat with old Professor Zacharias in the Arts Faculty
upstairs. Tell him Mehita sent you. Take a note of
his room number, 239; otherwise the floor’s like a
maze and you'll never find him.’ Mehita’s cheerful-
ness lifts your spirits, and you may add 1 LucK
point. But will you go upstairs as she suggests (tum
to 258), or will you decide it is safer to leave the
university (turn to 235)?

98-99

98
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, you fall down the

last bit of the cliff for 2 STAMINA points of bruises,
and you break the end off the staff; but you keep the
rest with you, having risked so much to bring it
down. Then turn to 147 to continue your journey. If
you are Unlucky, you fall from a great height and
are smashed on the path below.

99
As you walk along, you notice that the city 1s laid out

very regularly on a square grid pattern, The hostel is
at the north end of North 23 — East 5 Street, and the
next block south starts at the top of North 22- East 5
Street. The buildings are all very alike, except for the
Temple of the Five Suns, which towers above the
rest of the city and is a famous landmark; it is the
centre of the Imperial religion on Tropos - the five
suns being the suns of the planets of the Empire.

After wandering along the main roads for quite a
way, heading generally south and east, you realize
that this is getting you nowhere fast. There 1s hardly
likely to be a signpost saying, ‘Fission Chips - third
block on the left - rebels and spies welcome!’ You
are also getting tired and hungry: reduce your
STAMINA by 2 points. You decide you had better ask
the way in a shop, but there are only two small
shops around: the rest are automated hypermar-
kets. Will you ask at the grocer’s (turn to 152) or the
hardware shop (turn to 382)?

100-102

100

As you go further into the cave, you notice a smell of
sulphur, or something like it. It is not too strong,
however, and you take it as a good sign. If there is a
slight vent to the turbulent volcanic interior of the
planet, then the cave should stay above freezing all
night. You find a reasonably comfortable spot and
settle down. If you have some food, turn to 73;
otherwise turn to 18.

101

On the way to the hotel, you notice something odd
about the city: in some streets, whole houses have
been demolished, even though the surrounding
houses are stil standing. It is as if a localized earth-
quake had struck. You soon arrive at the hotel.
Porky, who is sitting on the steps outside, has
certainly earned his nickname — he is very fat. You
check into your room for one night (deduct 50
credits), shower, change and eat a snack. Restore 2
STAMINA points. Now you feel ready to tackle the
problems facing you. You decide to start by ques-
tioning Porky. Wilf you ask him about Radix in
general (turn to 77), or ask him to explain the
phenomenon of the demolished houses (turn
to 306)?

102

The humans in blue uniforms are the engineering
and technical staff. You approach one with your
question, and he tells you that the agricultural

103-104

station is about ten kilometres to the north-east
of the spaceport, over rough and undeveloped
ground. He says that if you have a pass, the shuttle
helicopter is efficient; otherwise it is a difficult jour-
ney on foot. Will you ask him how to get a pass (turn
to 38), or will you leave him and try elsewhere for a
sword (turn to 137)?

103
You chat for a while about the weather, and
gradually bring the conversation round to politics
and less innocent topics. But these attempts to draw
the others out fall on deaf, or perhaps cautious,
ears. One of them, a young woman, gets up to
leave. On the way out, she whispers something to
the doorman, who goes over to the barman. Will
you follow her (turn to 75), or stay put (turn to 280)?

104
He is not expecting this; the door crashes into
him and sends his phaser flying under the
sensorama console. You both draw your swords
simultaneously.

ARCADIAN SKILL 7 STAMINA §

If you win, turn to 315.

105

105
‘At the risk of making you suspicious of me,’ you
say, ‘I must ask you for proof that you are the
underground. My mission is so important that |
cannot tell you about it unless I know who you are.’

‘I can tell you only this,’ replies Bellatrix. ‘We follow
a strict code of honour, because without it we are no
better than Arcadians.’ You can tell from her tone
that she’s off on one of her favourite topics. She goes
on for quite a while, but her ‘code’ boils down to two
points: that liberation is possible, and that no one —
not even an Arcadian — is guilty without evidence

You don’t quite follow the more abstract parts of her
speech, but she is a fine speaker and you can see
how she might be the leader of a group of tough
men. More to the point, her passion is unmistakably
genuine and, since you already know that the
underground on Tropos has a strict code, you are
convinced that you are in the night place. Turn to
168.

106-108

106

The crowd goes wild with delighted approval. But
you scarcely have time to draw breath before the
gateway gapes again, and a Scabrok appears. It goes
on six legs, each of which is tipped with long claws;
its tough hide is covered with short, spiky hair. If
vou know the Scabrok’s weakness, turn to the
relevant reference, Otherwise, just fight rt.

SCABROK

If you win, turn to 54.

SKILL § STAMINA 14

107

The Arcadian is unprepared for such an assault. On
this planet they are not used to coping with violent
rebels, so he is unarmed. Being armed, you may add
1 SKILL point for this fight only; you can use the
rules for unarmed combat, if you prefer.

ARCADIAN

SECRETARY SKILL 7 STAMINA 8

if you win, Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to
15; if you are Unlucky, turn to 150.

103
You follow the winding path for a couple of
kilometres. Suddenly, your attention is caught by a
shadow on the path. It’s not that the shadow is
particularly odd in itself — it’s that there is nothing
around to cast it! And it is moving towards you!

When it is about a metre away, it stops. To your

109-110

amazement, a shaft of light emerges from the
ground where the shadow is. Within the shaft is a
form of some kind, which is constantly changing. If
this is science, it is beyond human or Arcadian
knowledge. You appear to be in the presence of
some unknown force. It does not seem hostile, but
being alien itis difficult to judge. Will you run away
from this encounter (turn to 120), or wait and see
what happens (turn to 236)?

109

When you get there, there is no sign of the Adolpho,
Could the grocer have been misleading you? Or
have you made a mistake? At any rate, curfew is not
far off. You have to take a chance and ask an
Arcadian policeman the way. There are plenty
around, and you approach a group of three. ‘Excuse
me, sit.’ ‘What do you want, punk?’ ‘Can you tell me
the way to the Adolpho videorama”’ ‘Of course: due
south for a block. But it was shut down for showing
subversive movies, with human heroes. Here - let
me give you a show: you can see some stars’ He
whacks you on the head with the shaft of his sword
(deduct 2 STAMINA points). You reel away, fol-
lowed by the harsh laughter of the policemen. Turn
tO 204.

110
Now you are inside an arsenal, which stretches
away underground for many metres. It would be an
understatement to say that you could start a revolu-

111

tion with this lot — you could annihilate the galaxy!
But your requirements are not so extreme. You have
time to take any two of the following: a sealed tube of
elmonite explosive, a limpet mine, a photon gren-
ade, a hand-phaser, and an infra-red scanner. Note
down what you take, and turn to 348-

111

You have interpreted his remark correctly as an
offer to show you around, which you want to re-
fuse, The archaeological exhibits are fascinating. It
seems that there was a civilization on Radix before
the human colonists arrived in the twenty-second
century, which utterly destroyed all its major cen-
tres early in the twenty-first century in an all-out
phacium war. Phacium bombs leave no traces, but a
number of objects from scattered outposts survived.
Archaeologists have even pieced together evidence
that suggests that these earlier Radicians used to
send saucer-shaped scouts around the galaxy,

You spend an enjoyable time looking around, When
vou have finished, will you ask the watchman what
is through the other door (turn to 356), or do you feel
that you have spent enough time on this and that
now you should go to the university (turn to 146)?

112-114

112
The fire is preventing you from making what could
have been a very profitable search. You have time ta
grab only one object. Roll one die. If the number is
even, turn to 122; if itis odd, turn to 253.

113
You succeed in getting an arm free, while at the
same time landing a kick on Indus’s instep. The
fight is on. This is unarmed combat, so follow those
tules, and you must fight both of them at the same
time. That means that you must choose each Attack
Round who you are attacking and conduct a normal
Attack Round against him. You must also roll each
time for your other opponent, but nothing will
happen unless his Attack Strength is higher than
yours, in which case he will injure you: you cannot
injure him under any circumstances, until you
choose to attack him.

SKILL STAMINA
GRUS 5 8
INDUS 6 §
If you win, turn to 9.
114

Your path winds through a rocky gorge, which
narrows until there is only room for one person to
squeeze between the two cliffs. Then, laid out in
front of you on a plain, is the agricultural station.
There are fields of experimental shrubs being tested

115-116

for survival in this harsh climate, which are being
tended by human workers; and beyond the fields is
the station itself, a building insulated within a ther-
modome. Will you back into the rocks and make
vour way round to the building (turn to 88), or
approach some of the humans in the fields, who
appear to be unguarded (turn to 22)?

115
The bar is very crowded. It is obviously a popular
meeting-place, and today there is a reception on as
weil, apparently for a South Arcadian wedding.
Several of the guests are already a bit the worse
for drink. You get a drink and some food (gain 3
STAMINA points if you have not dined already), and
then drift around the room, eavesdropping on con-
versations to see if anyone here might be of use to
you. You hear what’s on at the sensorama, and
several versions of what the bride’s mother said to
the in-laws, but you also hear snatches of two
conversations which could be interesting. Which
group will you join: the one discussing the possibil-
ity of human rebellion (turn to 289), or the one
discussing the rebuilding programme in the city
(turn to 93)?

116
You realize that your only chance is to go along with
this vile experiment. Your scientific training tells
you that there is a weakness in the device: if you
have enough will-power to resist the brainwashing,

4117-118

since you will be linked directly to the Arcadian’s
brain you may be able to turn the device against
him, It’s risky, but it’s your only hope. Because the
Arcadian knows no other existence except as part of
the colony or ant-heap, this possibility has not
occurred to him. He reckons that what is true for
him — what he calls the ‘glory’ of working for the
computer — must be true for everyone else too. Turn
to 300

117
They obviously used the house as a place to stash
their stolen goods. You decide not to stay long, but
vou soon uncover 500 credits, a ziridium-plated
bracelet, and an infra-red scanner. You may take
any of these items and then leave. Turn to 132.

118

When you arrive at the spaceport of the capital city
of Arcadion, you dare not take the phaser, in case of
Deing searched. You quickly get through the
spaceport officials, on the pretence of taking this
opportunity to see around ‘the glorious cenire of
our illustrious Empire’, as you put it. You calculate
chat you have a lead of about half an hour, while the
two Arcadians are missed and discovered, and the
authorities guess where you have gone; so you must
not spend too long getting to the computer build-
ing. Turn to 185.

L1g—120

119
It doesn’t take long to find the information you are
looking for. A certain Professor Zacharias in the
history department of the Arts Faculty is on record
as possibly being the rebel leader on Radix. You
make a print-out of this information. If you killed
Porky to get this information, turn to 209; other-
wise, turn to 74.

120

You head across the countryside to your right,
hoping to rejoin the other branch of the path. But
after a short while, you have to stop and rest: the
going is extremely difficult. And there is the shaft of
light beside you! This time it speaks: ‘Earthling,
where zplaran?’ At least, that’s what the last word
sounds like. The voice is strangely metallic and
hollow; it certainly doesn’t come from any living
being that you can imagine, Perhaps it is a robot of
some kind. If it is, then you could attack it. Is this
what you choose to do (turn to 179), or will you try
to talk back to it, as itinches ever closer to you (turn

to 195)?

——_—

I21-122

124
There is no time to move further down the street —
you will have to try the house opposite. You have
hardly started your urgent pounding when the door
swings open, ‘Quickly!’ hisses a human voice. ‘This
door will only hold ’em off for a few minutes.’ He
shuts and bolts the aneph-wood door, and takes
you into a room in the back of the house, The
Arcadians are already splitting the door with their
weapons; but your new-found friend seems
strangely confident. ‘Just watch this,’ he says. As
the doorgives way, he detonates a mine, which was
buried under the floorboards. When the smoke
begins to clear and the debris has settled down,
you clamber over the bodies into the street. One
Arcadian is limping away; the others are all dead

‘Very successful,’ says the man, ‘but the last of my
explosives. | hope you’re worth it. Now come with
me, Don’t worry about those scum opposite — Grus
and his friend - we'll deal with them. We set up this
house to keep an eye on them.’ Willyou go with him
as he says (turn to 41), or say that you must go after
the escaping Arcadian (turn to 283)?

122
The object you grabbed was a pair of wire-cutters
The fire is bound to attract unwelcome attention
You decide to leave the spaceport immediately
Turn to 336.

123-125

123
You follow the passage as it curves round to the
north. Eventually you come to a junction where you
may head west (turn to 8) or east (turn to 39).

124
On your way back, you run into a North Arcadian.
‘Halt!’ he cries. ‘This area is prohibited for humans.’
You rush into the attack, but reduce your SKILL by 1
point for this fight for being unarmed.

NORTH ARCADIAN

The Arcadian has room to swing his tail. Every
Attack Round, whatever the result of the dice rolls,
rol] an extra die: on 5 or 6, the Arcadian has
succeeded in swiping you with his tail, and you
must reduce your STAMINA by 2 points. If you win,
you may take his sword, but you will have to leave
the spaceport immediately, since the hunt will now
be on. Turn to 151.

SKILL 6 STAMINA 8

125 :
The doorman reappears by your side. ‘Now, will
you do as you're told and beat it?’ he hisses. “You've
shown how good you are with a sword and all that,
but the club will be closed down now, thanks to
you.’ The sound of a patrol approaching at the
double can already be heard. Wil! you insist on
staying, perhaps to pretend you were an innocent
bystander (turn to 184), or leave (turn to 252)?

126

Central Arcadians are well known for their arro-
gance, “Your puny threats don't worry me, human,’
he replies. ‘I can pilot this ship as well as you. But
you have more pluck than most of your kind, In-
stead of killing you now, | will use you in an
experiment: a courageous guinea-pig would be
mteresting. [myself have developed a device which
s more reliable than the empathic receiver and can
be used on humans. | am taking poor Musca back
for interrogation, and then he will be the first Arca-
dian to undergo the new process. You have earned
the honour of being the first human.’ He locks
Musca in your cabin and frogmarches you back to
his room. Will you attempt to escape (turn to 340) or
not (turn to 387)?

127

You scrape your leg against a packing-case and cutit
badly on a projecting nail. Lose 1 sTaAMINA point.
The passage leads into another cellar, with one exit
straight ahead and another in the southern wall.
Will you go straight ahead (turn to 333) or south
turn to 221)?

123-125

123
You follow the passage as it curves round to the
north. Eventually you come to ajunction where you
may head west (turn to 8) or east (turn to 39).

124
On your way back, you run into a North Arcadian.
‘Halt!’ he cries. ‘This area is prohibited for humans.’
You rush into the attack, but reduce your SKILL by 1
point for this fight for being unarmed.

NORTH ARCADIAN SKILL 6

The Arcadian has room to swing his tail. Every
Attack Round, whatever the result of the dice rolls,
roll an extra die: on 5 or 6, the Arcadian has
succeeded in swiping you with his tail, and you
must reduce your STAMINA by 2 points. If you win,
you may take his sword, but you will have to leave
the spaceport immediately, since the hunt will now
be on. Turn to 151.

STAMINA 8

125 ’
The doorman reappears by your side. ‘Now, will
you do as you're told and beat it?’ he hisses. “You’ve
shown how good you are with a sword and all that,
but the club will be closed down now, thanks to
you.’ The sound of a patrol approaching at the
double can already be heard. Will you insist on
staying, perhaps to pretend you were an innocent
bystander (turn to 184), or leave (turn to 252)?

126

Central Arcadians are well known for their arro-
gance. ‘Your puny threats don’t worry me, human,’
he replies. ‘I can pilot this ship as well as you. But
you have more pluck than most of your kind. In-
stead of killing you now, I will use you in an
experiment: a courageous guinea-pig would be
teresting. I myself have developed a device which
is more reliable than the empathic receiver and can
be used on humans. I am taking poor Musca back
for interrogation, and then he will be the first Arca-
dian to undergo the new process. You have earned
the honour of being the first human.’ He locks
Musca in your cabin and frogmarches you back to
his room. Will you attempt to escape (turn to 340) or
not (turn to 387)?

127
You scrape your leg against a packing-case and cut it
badly on a projecting nail. Lose 1 STAMINA point,
The passage leads into another cellar, with one exit
straight ahead and another in the southern wall

Will you go straight ahead (turn to 333) or south
(turn to 221)?

128-130

128
Will you risk using the jet pack, despite its lack of
fuel, to propel you over the fence? If so, turn to 57; if
not, turn to 2,

129
“You lie!’ shouts the policeman. ‘You know full well
that there are no space-pirates these days. We rule
space with an iron fist; no pirate dare show so much
as a tail-jet. You must have something to hide — let’s
find out what.’ He presses a button on the desk:
guards pour in and pin you to the wall. You are
helpless to prevent them from searching you and
finding your laser sword. ‘So,’ sneers the police-
man, ‘you desire only to serve, eh? I wonder if this
sword works. . .’

Not only have you failed in your mission, but the
chances are, with Arcadian techniques of torture,
that you will be forced to confess what you know
about SAROS. You have let down the whole of
mankind.

130
At last he hands the phaser over, and youcan begin
to question him, But it soon becomes clear that you
131-133

are going to get nowhere. If you have a mind-probe,
you can use that (turn to 153); otherwise you give up
and turn to 118,

131

Now what will you do? You already know that there
is no escape from the passage behind you, and
ahead there is only the arena. You still have to win
the two fights in the arena before the aliens will let
you go. What a waste of valuable sraMINA, Turn to

313.

132
You lose yourself in the crowds on the main street.
You really must find your way to the Fission Chips
soon, or it will be curfew. Also, you are getting very
hungry (deduct 2 STAMINA points). You decide to
go into a grocer’s shop to buy some food and
perhaps ask the way as well: it is one of the few
small shops around; the rest are vast automated
hypermarkets. Turn to 152.

133
When you get your free attack on the Scabrok, you
fail to wound it particularly badly, and cause it only

134-135

2 STAMINA pomts of damage. So you fight the beast
as follows:

SCABROK SKILL 8

lf you win, turn to 54.

STAMINA 12

134
Gain 4 STAMINA points for a fine dinner and a good
night’s rest. If you have an appointment to keep in
the morning, turn to 376; otherwise, turn to 317.

135

The dead Throttlebush still provides excellent shel-
ter, for this night, at any rate. Do you have any
food? If so, you may eat it and restore 2 STAMINA
points, and then 2 more for the night's rest. If you
do not, restore only 2 points for your sleep. In the
moming you follow a path heading roughly north-
east, until it divides, Will you branch right (turn to
171) or left (turn to 108)?

i =

— i —

SO EE ae

Gesu am is a uP wa

136-138

136

After a while, the man’s sobs die down, and he lies
back on his bed, staring vacantly at the mouldy
ceiling. Suddenly there is a commotion dawnstairs.
You jump up, just as one of the guards from outside
the hostel runs into the room brandishing a whippy,
‘The receptionist has been murdered,’ he shouts.
‘Which one of you dogs did it? Not that it matters —
ten human lives for every Arcadian, and you two
will be first.’

He approaches your companion, who has remained
lying on the bed as if he didn’t care about death or
didn’t believe he would die. You cannot stand stiil
and let a fellow human die, You pull out your sword
and leap into the attack.

GUARD SKILL 6 STAMINA 8

Every other Attack Round, roll one die. If you roll 5
or 6, the guard has managed to get a hit on you with
his tail, whatever the result of that Attack Round
otherwise, and you must deduct 2 STAMINA points
If you win, turn to 268.

137
You decide that your best bet is to get a sword from
an Arcadian, Turn to 16.

138
You have a fantastic meal (cross 4o credits off your
Adventure Sheet). The Radicians, who enjoy the good
things in life, have perfected the art of cooking food

139-141

which is pleasing to both the eye and the taste-buds,
and also highly nutritious. You may restore 3
STAMINA points. The waiters in the restaurant are
all human, apart from the imperious head waiter,
who watches everything with an eagle eye. One of
the waiters comes over to inquire whether you
would like anything else. He talks most peculiarly:
‘Another meal course, sir, or some parkin?’ You tell
him you've had plenty, and get up to leave. Will you
go to the bar (turn to 115), or do you have an
appointment to keep (turn to 194)?

139
Turn to 177.

140
Your suspicious behaviour — poking around here
and there, knocking on doors and asking questions
~ has been noticed by an Arcadian patrol. Their
leader, a burly brute of a Northern Arcadian, calls
on you to halt. You make a run for it. Test your Luck.
If you are Lucky, turn to 233; if you are Unlucky,
turn to 330.

141
By clearing your mind, you become calm and fear-
less, which prepares you for the coming test. You
May gain 1 SKILL point while this mental battle lasts,
even if that takes you over your Initial score. Turn

to 55,

142-145

142
You find yourself in a cellar with further exits in the
eastern and western walls. Will you turn back (turn
to 221), west (turn to 324) or east (turn to 333)?

143
You fall on to one of the spikes of the plant, which
Pierces your leg. Deduct 2 staMINa points, and
hobble on into the cave. Turn to 100,

144

‘Pirates!’ scoffs the policeman. ‘I am continually
astonished by the stupidity of you humans. We
control space; no pirate dare appear. You are think-
ing of the dark age before the foundation of the
Empire and the establishment of peace. But there
are worse crimes than stupidity. You can go - but
(i be watching you!’ You realize that he is right;
vou have been stupid, and have jeopardized your
mission already. Turn to 370.

145
Inside, you are led past stacks of crates and boxes up

to a heavy-jowled human, who is sitting behind a

146-148

desk. ‘What is going on here?’ he demands, with
scarcely a glance up from his papers. If you killed a
human on the way here, turn to 28; otherwise turn
to 187.

146

The university, which is only for humans, is a small
affair these days, occupying a single large building
on the outskirts of the city. Arcadian guards are
everywhere, since they have to make their presence
felt in this hotbed of-possible rebellion. Will you go
to the Science Floor (turn to 266) or to the Arts Floor
(turn to 258)?

147
In a short while, your path is joined by another to

the left. Will you contimue straight on (turn to 114),
or take this branch (turn to 108)?

148

You've fallen for the oldest con trick in the book,
and have just signed your own death warrant. As
soon as you let them know that you are in a position
to bargain, they realize that you have a lot of money
on you. With one swift move, Indus follows up a jab
to the solar plexus with a rabbit punch on the neck.
While you are dazed and winded, Grus gets your
sword. . Your adventure is over

149-151

£49
This is a very handsome, very finely crafted piece of
equipment — but of no use whatsoever under the
present circumstances. If you have an alternative,
return to 381 and choose again; if you have no
alternative, you have failed.

150

An Arcadian guard happens to be passing down the
corridor outside. He stops to investigate the com-
motion, and bursts into the room just as you are
finishing off the secretary. Now you will have to
fight him, too. He’s an ugly spectmen: his face is
disfigured by a long scar running from eye to
mouth.

GUARD SKILL 8 STAMINA 10
If you win, turn to 66.

151
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 336; if you
are Unlucky, turn to 249.

152-154

152
As you enter the shop, your hunger really gets the
better of you and, to the astonishment of the human
grocer, you purchase 20 credits’ worth of fruit and
nuts and gobble them down on the spot, ‘Must be
some new terrestrial fad,’ you hear the grocer mut-
ter to himself, but he is pleased to see a human
spending money on such luxuries. Bread and oom, a
porridge made from Tropian beans, is staple diet for
humans. ‘Ah, that’s better,” you declare (restore 4
STAMINA points). Will you now ask him the way to
the Fission Chips (turn to 335) or to the Adolpho
videorama (turn to 260)?

153

You know that using the mind-probe will almost
certainly destroy what's left of his mind, but you
feel you have no choice. After clearing through a
morass of jumbled information, you find something
useful: one of the Arcadian arsenals is located in the
basement of the computer building and has an
entry-code of 110. Gain 1 LUCK point and turn to
118, as you are nearing Arcadion

154
You find yourself in a wash-room - and it has a
hatch out on to the street! The hatch is locked,
however, and the search-party is right behind you.
Roll one die. If the number is even, turn to 166; if itis
odd, turn to §0.

155-157

155
‘The bitter sea,’ you reply,

‘Y know none of the digits,’ he begins, and your
heart sinks, ‘All Iknowis that the whole sequence of
digits is a palindrome - it is the same written for-
wards or backwards.’

Gain 1 Luck point. This should be enough for you to
complete the code. He also gives you some food, a
grey uniform which you could use for getting back
into the spaceport, and enough quandar-root lotion
to heal 4 STAMINA points of injuries. You thank him
over your shoulder as you race off. Turn to 163.

156
There are too many to overcome - and they’re
human! You succeed only in reducing your
STAMINA by 2 points before being knocked out.
Turn to 207

aay
Your opponent has no weapon either, so this is
unarmed combat.

HALMURIAN SKILL 6 STAMINA 8

158-160

If you win, you may search the body (turn to 12) or
leave (turn to 124).

158
If youare at Porky’s Palace, turn to 3; if you are at the
Zodiac, turn to 31.

159
The room beyond the Dragon is piled high with
treasure, including the fabled Minarong crystal with
its all-healing powers. Maybe some of this imagin-
ary treasure will help you in the imaginary world
you are in. Will you take some (turn to 42) or not
(turn to 391)?

160
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, he merely con-
fiscates the items (cross them off your Equipment
List), but lets you through — turn to 374. If you are
Unlucky, he hauls you away for intense interrog-
ation, from which you will eventually emerge with
your body broken and your memory erased.

Att -

161-162

161

The air in the centre, where the trunk is, is not far off
stifling, but at least itis warm. But what is this? The
tendrils, having lured you to their core, are pressing
around you in a solid mass, apart from the few that
are snaking forward to catch your arms and legs.
This plant is perfectly adapted to the Halmurian
environment: its warmth keeps it alive and also
attracts other creatures, which then become its
prey. You will have to earn your night’s rest by
fighting this Throttlebush. It has sraMINa 14, but
NO SKILL to speak of; so, depending how much Luck
you use, you have at least seven Attack Rounds in
which to defeat it, by hacking away at its nerve-
centre, the trunk. Roll two dice for each Attack
Round. If the number rolled is 1-6, the Throttlebush
has reduced your sTAMINA by 2 points; if it is 7-12,
you have reduced its STAMINA by 2 points. If you
win, turn to 135.

162
You get off and jump on to the escalator to street
level. Looking up behind you, you can see two
Arcadians, still coming after you, and tafking into
their comlinks, Once on the street, you duck down
the first side-street you come to. Test your Luck, If
vou are Lucky, turn to 183; if you are Unlucky, turn

to 373.

163-164

163

Your journey back to the spaceport is uneventful,
but tiring in this high gravity, You would lose
STAMINA if it were not for the food that Dorado gave
you. Wil] you use the grey uniform as a disguise for
getting back into the spaceport (turn to 344}, or
would you prefer to use wire-cutters, if you have
them (turn to 302)?

164
When you have disembarked, you register your
visit to Tropos, as all off-planet humans are required
to. Then you enter Customs, under the keen eyes
not just of the Customs officer, but also ofa squad of
soldiers. They do not give you a body-search,
however, since they rely on a metal-detector. But
your sword has been chemically treated to avoid
such detection, and your money-belt has no meta!
in it. You breathe a sigh of relief and pass through
Customs, but you are immediately surrounded by
the soldiers, who march you off to a room in the
spaceport. Sitting behind a desk is a Central
Arcadian who, though he wears civilian clothes,
somehow has such an air of crue] authority that he
can only belong to the Secret Police. You notice that
the desk has two buttons on it, but you do not know
what they are for. The policeman dismisses the
guards to wait outside, and barks out his question:
‘Why did you attempt to escape your escort?’ Will
you try to bluff your way out of the situation (turn to
246}, or draw your sword and fight it out (turn to

17)?

165-166

165

One of the Arcadian guards follows you from the
spaceship. By the time you are in the deserted parts
of the spaceport, his suspicions are thoroughly
aroused, and he stops you and demands to search
vour pack, which is full of contraband, You will
have to fight him. Reduce your skILt by 1 point for
this fight for being unarmed.

GUARD SKILL 6 STAMINA &

If you win, you ditch the items from your pack: you
have no further use for the black marketeer, because
vou can take the guard’s sword. But you will have to
leave the spaceport immediately, because the hunt
will be on. Turn to 336.

166
You fumble with the watchman’s bunch of keys and

fail to find the right one. You are cut down where
you stand.

167-168

167

You tell the Arcadian that you know what's up with
Musca (who is by now gibbering quietly in a corner
of the room), and point out that he cannot kill you,
just in case he needs a pilot on this trip, You add that
you will make sure that this damaging information
gets out to other humans. So you have thrown
down the gauntlet. What will his reaction be? Turn
to126. .

168

You take the plunge: surely, they must be the
underground. You tell them everything about your
mission, and even drop the names of one or two
people back on Earth who they might know of, to
make your story more plausible. Once you have
finished, the three humans huddle together. This is
a good sign: if they were traitors, they would have
finished with you by now. At last, they separate.
Bellatrix speaks again: ‘Very good. You seem to
know more about this mission than any Arcadian
spy would know, There is just one last thing we
want you to do. The barman at the Fission Chips is a
double agent — return there and kill him.” Do you
agree (turn to 68) or not (turn to 274)?

169-171

169

The door to the basement is ten-centimetre rein-
forced laser-proof criton. No way are you going to
get through that! But there is a small panel similar to
the one you encountered on the outside of this
building. If you know the code, turn to the para-
graph whose decimal number looks the same as
this binary number. Otherwise you return to the
computer room (turn to 381).

170

The lecture theatre is fairly packed. Professor
Zacharias seems to be popular, but you cannot see
why. His subject is history, and he drones on about
Arcadian-human relations in the twenty-fourth
century. You find yourself drifting off to sleep . .
You wake up with a start when your shoulder is
jogged by a janitor who is cleaning the room— which
is otherwise deserted! You race back to Professor
Zacharias’s room, only to find a message on the
door: ‘Called away on urgent business. Back
tomorrow, 11 a.m.’ You turn away, cursing your
doziness. Lose 1 LUCK point, but restore 2
STAMINA points for the rest. Leave the university by
turning to 235.

171
You walk on for about an hour, and then stop to rest
and shelter from the heat: gain 1 STAMINA point
While gazing idly into the sky, you notice a large
bird coming into land on the rock-face above you.
172

What strikes you in particular is that the bird is
carrying something which flashes as it catches the
sunlight. Do you want to investigate this further
(turn to 383), or carry on with your journey (tum

to 147)?

172

After several further more or less polite attempts to
wake him up, you decide to go round to the back of
the reception counter so that you can nudge him
awake. As you walk round, something glinting on
the floor catches your eye, and you stoop to pick it
up. Itis a large button, from a jacket, on which there
is a curious design of an eagle clutching a scroll in its
talons. Then, from your crouched position, you
notice something else — a pool of blood under the
Arcadian’s chair. He’s been murdered! You pocket
the button, realizing that it could bea clue, and start
to move back. But in your haste, you trip over a
robo-mop, which lets out a protesting whine and
brings the two guards rushing in from outside.

‘He's dead!’ you gasp. ‘But it was. . . it wasn’t. . . 1

mean...

173-175

‘Murderer!’ says one of the guards. ‘We've caught
vou red-handed!’ They advance on vou, whippies at
the ready. They are clearly not going to listen to
reason — you will have to fight them. From your
position behind the reception counter, they can
only approach you one at a time, and there is no
room for them to use their spiked tails.

SKILL STAMINA
First GUARD 6 8
Second GUARD 7 8

During the fight another human comes downstairs
If you win, turn to 268,

173
Of the humans on the base, some are wearing grey
uniforms, some blue, You want to ask where the
agricultural station is. Will you ask someone in grey
(turn to 319) or in blue (turn to 102)?

174
After a while you hit the jackpot. A section of the file
is devoted to ‘Activists —- Potential and Actual’. You
are so engrossed in the details that you do not hear
the approaching guards until it is too late

175
‘Now, Mizar,’ you say, authoritatively, ‘t must go.

But first tell me what you know about the digits of
the Arcadian computer,’

176~—178

‘What on Halmuris are you talking about?’ says
Mizar, as the Arcadians overwhelm Dorado and
pour into the clearing. Whether or not you escape
this immediate danger, you have failed in your
tussion.

176
A smooth voice from the computer says: ‘So sorry
Taxis are not allowed in the city. Please keep Tropos
free of pollution. As you are terrestrial, I will take
vou to the hostel.’ Turn to 196, but subtract 1 LUCK
point first

177
You dash outside to wait for the explosion - and

come face to face with a platoon of North Areadians,
spiked tails restlessly swinging from side to side.
Curiously, they sense that you are expecting some-
thing, so they do not immediately rush in for the
kill, but wait to see what will happen. The explosion
seems to take for ever in coming — but there it is!
Then the Arcadians close in — you must have done
something wrong .

178
The buildings, even here on the outskirts of the city,
are impressive. The architects have taken full
advantage of the low gravity of the planet, and vast
towers and arches soar gracefully into the sky. The
colour of the local stone is very pale blue, but
different coloured synthetic materials are also used

179

and look very attractive, Near the university is the
archaeology museum, which you decide to visit,
having heard that it is rather interesting.

The museum consists of a single large room, with
show-cases around the walls and two rows of ex-
hibits down the centre of the room. There is a closed
door at the other end of the room, At the entrance,
there is an armed South Arcadian watchman, who
calls you over, butit seems he only wants to pass the
time of day.

‘A ziridium mine in the desert,’ he says. ‘Yes, I'd
noticed that there aren’t many visitors,’ you reply,
correctly. He nods, as if his next remark follows
logically: ‘As itis written in the Book of the Five Suns,
“Contact costs nothing; if there is cost it is not pure
contact.’”’

Will you reply, ‘No thanks, I'll browse around my-
self’ (turn to 111), or ‘It’s nice to see someone taking
his job seriously’ (turn to 19)?

179
‘So? Earthling, in me all forms. This one for you.’
The shimmering cloud within the shaft of light takes
on a horrifying appearance, which is so alien that
you can hardly believe it really exists. You seem to
see a Creature with four arms sprouting from a body;
each hand is armed with a scimitar, axe, club or
scythe; her hair stands up like living fire and is
adorned with a tiara of shrunken heads. A cobra

180

winds itself around her hips. ‘Now, unbeliever,’
this image seems to say, in a voice which is sur-
prisingly quiet, but laden with power, ‘lam Kali,
bringer of life through death, For you must die
before you can live again.’ Hallucination or not, you
must defend yourself against this powerful being.

SHAPE-CHANGER

[f you win, the thing reverts to its form as a shaft of
light, which then disappears back into a shadow
and speeds away. You haven't the faintest idea
what has been going on. Turn to 114.

SKILL 10 STAMINA 14

180

You press the button and wait, heart in throat. You
don’t have to wait long. Guards pour into the room
to answer the call. They don’t need to ask you what
has been going on: your own dishevelled state and
the mangled corpse of the policeman tell their story
all too clearly. You draw your sword in desperation,
but are overwhelmed by sheer force of numbers.
You have failed in your mission.

————— OO

181-182

181
You walk for half an hour in a southerly direction,
searching in increasing desperation for some shelter
from the freezing night. But allin vain, The sudden
drop in temperature catches you still out in the
open, and you fail, as if poleaxed, to the ground.

182
You pass the time pleasantly, eating (deduct 20
credits and gain 2 STAMINA points) and chatting
with students. They are fascinated ta know that you
are from Earth, which they regard as a mixture of
paradise and a stone-age settlement. You have a
struggle to set them right on both scores. Just as
you are about to leave, a student, with a badge
portraying a large black eye, gets up and begins to
make a speech. Before he has got very far, the place
is in uproar: a mini-riot erupts, [t is not too serious,
but it delays you. You race back to Professor Zachar-
ias’s room, only to find a message on the door:
‘Called away on urgent business. Back tomorrow,
11 a.m.’ You turn away, cursing your ill fortune
(lose 1 LUCK point), and leave the university (turn to

235).

183-185

183
You lose yourself in the shadows, hardly daring to
breathe — and your pursuers pass by on the main
moving pavement. You follow the twists and turns
of the side-streets, always keeping the overhead
monorail in sight to guide you in the right direction
for your hotel, Turn to 285.

184
‘I’m sorry, friend,’ says the doorman. ‘You leave me
no choice.’ Without further ado, and before you can
react, he delivers a killing punch to your windpipe
Hopefully, he will have saved the rebel operation on
Tropos, but you will never know.

185

There are very few humans on Arcadion, and you
have no time to waste. You approach the first hu-
man you meet and ask him the way to the computer
building. He tells you the way with some en-
thusiasm, as if he was proud to help a stranger find
the centre of the Empire. If you go straight to the
computer building, turn to 219. If you need to know
where an arsenal is and, bearing in mind that you
will probably meet no other humans, you want to
ask this person where itis, turn to 284

186-188

186
You are walking along a dusty corridor. The statue
of a grotesque ancient god looms out of the dark-
ness, scaring you witless fora moment. Lose 1 LUCK
point. There is a passage off to the south (turn to
384), or you can continue straight on (turn to 254)

187
Will you ask if he can supply you with a pass for the
shuttle service to the agricultural station (turn to
385) or with a sword (turn to 286)?

188

You clear your throat — no response. You say, ‘Oy!
Excuse me!’ ~ no response. Will you now wait (turn
to 29) or will you keep trying to attract his attention
(turn to 172)?

—

189

The man thanks you and offers you some food,
which you gratefully accept. Gain 3 STAMINA
points. While you are eating, he explains that he
used to work at the nearby agricultural station but
was caught stealing food to supplement his meagre
rations; now he'll never be able to go back. You tell
him that within a few days he may find himself free
of his masters; then you ask if he knows anything
about the underground. He does not, but he tells
you that at this time of day there are no humans in
the station itself: they are all out in the fields. He
directs you to the agricultural station. Gain 1 LUCK
point, and turn to 114.

eer i EE aL SQQQ0bQgQg 2.205; Q°Q—Q__._™™’ °
190-191

190

You run through the twisting streets and lanes, but
wherever you run, the robot follows, adjusting its
speed to yours exactly, and staying out of range of
the destructive thumps which it sends out at irregu-
lar intervals. You realize that you will only exhaust
vourself to no purpose if you continue to run. You
must stand and fight.

STREET FIGHTER SKILL 9 STAMINA 16

Its attacks will increase in effectiveness as the build-
ings around get weaker. Its first successful Attack
Round will cause you 2 STAMINA points of injury,
the next 3, the next 4, and so on, as larger and larger
pieces of masonry strike you. (You can use LUCK in
the usual way to reduce the injuries by 1 point each
time.) If you carry on the fight as norma] and win,
turn to 309. But does the robot have a weakness?
Roll two dice. If the number rolled is greater than
your SKILL, turn to 227; if the number rolled is less
than or equal to your SKILL, turn to 282,

191
En route for Halmuris, you may restore your STAM-
INA by half as much again as your current STAMINA
score, rounding odd numbers down, and _ re-
membering that you cannot exceed your /nitial
score. You review the problems you face: you have
no equipment or weapon, though you still have
your money, and there is a spare anti-grav pack on
board your ship. Halmuris is a bleak planet: the

191

terrain is wild and mountainous, and some of the
mountains are active volcanoes. It is a planet which
is still going through the last violent stages of cre-
ation. It is very hot in the daytime, and fatally
freezing at night, when the hot, blueish sun sinks
below the horizon and the three moons become
visible. The moons cause vast tides on the planet. If
you have to spend a night out on Halmuris, you
would be well advised to choose somewhere warm
and far away from water! The inhabitants live in
smal] settlements, which were originally scientific
research establishments, and are clustered quite
close together, with the spaceport, on the high
plateau region in the south of the planet — this is to
avoid the huge tides which ravage the lower-lying
areas, which are punctuated by sudden mhospit-
able crags.

The computer feeds you all these data, and also
informs you that the alien inhabitants are mastly
Central Arcadians, who naturally took over the
scientific facilities of the planet, All you know about
the underground leader is that he or she is an
assistant at the agricuitural research settlement,

When you land on Halmuris, you find that your
limbs feel heavy. The higher gravity of this planet
means that for the duration of your stay here, you
must lose s sKILL pomt. This makes finding a
weapon even more vital. There are none of the
Customs and immigration hassles that you ex-
pected. Instead, you are simply ordered to remain

192-194

in the spaceport area until your ship is unloaded
and your passenger is ready to embark late the next
day. [tis now mid-afternoon, with four hours to go
until sunset. Will you first investigate the possibility
of getting hold of a sword (turn to 273) or of learning
the whereabouts of the agricultural station (turn to

173)?

192
This action is very noble of you — but even nobility is
misplaced sometimes. You are marched away to the
Arcadian police headquarters. Before you die in
agony, you will reveal all - the codenames, your
mission, your connection with SAROS, You have
failed utterly.

193
You narrowly miss impaling yourself on one of the
vicious-looking spikes of the plant. You pick your-
self up and enter the gloom of the cave. Turn to 190

194
You take the monorail to the public park and find
the waiter at the main entrance. “We've been expect-
ing you,’ he says, ‘Earth sent another ‘merchant’ to
warn us of your arrival. I don’t know all the details
of your mission, except that you have to meet our
leader. I don’t know who this is ~ we work on the
basis that each person has contact only with his
immediate superior — but | think you could start at
the university,’ You thank him, and may add 1 LUCK

195-196

point. You head for the university. There is a
monorail drop station just outside. Will you plunge
straight in (turn to 146), or wait around outside for a
while (turn to 178)?

195

You pause to think. It occurs to you that it need not
necessanly be a robot: the metallic tone of the voice
could come from some language translation device.
What is-this zplaran it’s asking about? It can speak
enough Arcadian to cover everyday objects, it
seems. If you have a strange staff or a mind-probe,
you could see if one of these is what it wants. Will
you try the staff (turn to 267) or the probe (turn to
226)? If you have neither of these, or choose not to
give them up, turn to 179.

196
The hostel is a semi-derelict, flea-ridden building —
and Tropian fleas have to be seen to be believed!
Two Northern Arcadian guards stand by the door,
and inside a scruffy Southerner is sitting in a chair,
leaning back against the wall, apparently asleep.
What an odd set-up! No robot receptionist or com-
puterized check-in. And outside everything is just
as old-fashioned. There are no personal or public

197

overhead monorail systems; the buildings are
mostly late twenty-first century and low-lying — and
the pollution! To think they haven’t yet got around
to dealing with it! A sign on the wall says: ‘Remem-
ber — no vehicles in town, Offenders will be pros-
ecuted.’ A typically primitive solution to a primitive
problem.

Will you wait for the receptionist to nottce you (tum
to 29), or draw his attention to your presence (turn
to 188)?

197

The man in grey looks at you with terrorand scuttles
off down a passage, out of sight. Will you ask
someone in blue instead (turn to 217), or try to get
one off an Arcadian (turn to 16)?

198~—201

198
You have time to grab one of the following, if you
have it in your pack and want it. Otherwise, return
to the scene of combat.

A can of engine oil Turn to 256

A hand-klaxon Turn to 21

A benelo-phosphate strobe Turn to 79
199

You are acutely conscious of the pounding of
Arcadian feet, as you get rid of the last few strands
of wire and struggle to get through. But in your
haste you have not made a hole that is quite large
enough, and you get thoroughly tangled up ~ an
easy target. Your mission ends here,

200

To your horror, you realize that there is a massive
identifit hologram of you in the spaceport, with the
caption: “ENEMY OF THE EMPIRE’. It is not an exact
likeness, however; the Arcadian who escaped can
only have caught a glimpse of you from a distance
Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 318; if you
are Unlucky, turn to 83,

201

He pockets the 500 credits (cross them off your
Adventure Sheet), and seems prepared to do as you
suggest. But in fact you have insulted his Radician
sense of duty. Turn to 85.

202-204

202

You look at Mehita. She is not much younger than -

you, but your experiences are worlds apart. You feel
you cannot talk to her about anything serious. You
mumble some excuse and leave. Will you go to the
Arts Floor, ifyou haven't already been there {turn to
258), or leave the university (turn to 235)?

203
Turn to 177.

204
The Fission Chips is in the basement of the former
Adolpho videorama. A neon sign, with many buibs
inissing, still advertises the last feature, a classic
science-fiction comedy from the twentieth century,
called ‘Star Trek’, You go down the steps which lead
to the entrance to the club, and knock on the dvor. A
human face appears at a peep-hole. “What do you
want?’ it says aggressively, ‘To get in the club, of
course,’ you reply. ‘Who recommended us to you,
stranger?’ asks the doorman, emphasizing the last
word. What will you replv:

205-206

‘SAROS’? Turn to 287
‘Bellatrix’? Turn to 240
“The Grand Vizier of Tropos’? Turn to 45

“No one — I’m from Earth’? : Turn to 326

205
You have fallen for the final trap the machine was
offering — power over itself, and therefore over the
whole Arcadian race. The computer is subtler than
you: you have lowered your defences and are now
its slave for ever,

206
The guard is not expecting the attack, so you get in
one free assault. Since you are unarmed, roll one
die. If you roll 6, you incapacitate the guard im-
mediately If nct, you will have to fight him as
follows

GUARD SKILL 7 STAMINA §

if you defeat him, you may take his sword. Turn
tO 131,

ne ee OOo a
207

207

You slowly climb back to consciousness. The first
thing you are aware of is a splitting headache (de-
duct 2 STAMINA points — 3 if you have not eaten
today). The second thing is that even when you
open your eyes, it’s still pitch-black, Once you have
realized that you are not blind, but that wherever
you are is in darkness, you clamber to your feet
Immediately, a bright light stabs your eyebails, you
instinctively cover your face with your arm. Behind
the light you can just make out three human shapes,
two standing on either side of the third, who is
seated at the table

f
|, J i
ee Ue

J 1 | '
— ee -s

-_— ae

A woman, who is apparently the one seated,
addresses you: ‘You seem to know something of our
business. That could mean one of two things: either
you are an Arcadian spy, or you are one of us from
Earth. If the latter is the case, I apologize for the
rough treatment you have received from us, but you
will understand why this was necessary. Now,
explain yourself.’

‘Y’m looking for Beilatrix,’ you begin

208-210

‘So you know my codename,’ she says. “That in
itself doesn’t prove a thing: we may have been
infiltrated.’

This is a tricky situation: they are not convinced that
you are from SAROS, but are you entirely sure that
they are rebels? Will you try to convince them that
you are who you say you are (turn to 168), or ask for
proof of their identity (turn to 105)?

208
Itis surprisingly easy to push your way through the
foliage: the tendrils seem to part and then close
behind you. This makes you feel uneasy. Will you
dash out before you have got too far (turn to 327), or
press on to the centre (turn to 161)?

209

You cannot stay in Porky’s Palace, but you can
easily find another cheap hotel for 75 credits. You
must deduct 2 LucK points for what amounts to the
murder of a fellow human. Then turn to 74,

210

You tell him that the rope is for rock-climbing on
Halmuris, and that the scanner is for checking your
ship’s heating system, but he does not quite believe
you: the presence of two unlikely items in your pack
has aroused his suspicions. Roi] one die. On 1-2,
turn to 396; on 3-6, turn to 160

211-212

241

However much you struggle, you cannot get free.
But the fact that they are thieves gives you an idea
‘Look,’ you say, ‘you already have my sword, which
isa rare and valuable weapon these days. Nobody’s
going to be any the wiser if you just let me go.’ They
exchange greedy glances, but don’t reply im-
mediately. Will you offer them some money as well
(turn to 91), or wait a bit (turn to 72)?

212
‘What? Oh, yes,’ he says; then a spasm of pain
passes over his face. ‘Who are you? What am | doing
here? You’re human! Guards!” This is one confused
Arcadian. No guards arrive, of course, but his shout
brings the other Arcadian into the corridor - and he
is carrying a phaser!

‘What's going on here, Musca?’ he demands of the
first Arcadian, but there is no reply. ‘Your friend has
a headache. I'll get the medical robot,’ you say
eventually.

He takes the first Arcadian, Musca, back to his
room, and you notice that he doesn’t put his phaser
away. Curiouser and curiouser: phasers are only
issued in extreme circumstances. Could the con-
fused Arcadian actually be under guard? In the
morning, will you try to find out more (turn to 290),
or will you bide your time (turn to 247)?

213-216

213
When you arrive at the spaceport, you find that
there are a great many Arcadian guards mingling
with the crowds. If you let an Arcadian escape in
Grus’s street, turn to 209; if not, turn to 318,

214
You had imagined a human secretary, but find a
burly South Arcadian. Of course: the Arcadians
would want to keep an eye on the files. He looks at
you in surprise: you do not exactly look like an
ordinary student. ‘Can I help you?’ he asks, but his
antennae are waving alarmingly. Will you fight him
so that you can investigate the files (turn to 107), or
consider that they are probably not worth the bother
(turn to 58)?

215
Resolve your fight
WATCHMAN

If you win, you can take the grenade. Turn to 320.

SKILL 7 STAMINA 8

216
Eyes streaming, and choking in the smoke, you
race, sometimes leaping, sometimes zigzagging be-
tween burning bushes. Test your Luck, If you are
Lucky, turn to 323; if you are Unlucky, turn to 389.

217-219

217
You pick your man carefully, choosing someone
who looks tough and self-sufficient. At last he
leaves the group he was with, and makes off across
a lobby. You catch him up after a few metres, and
come straight to the point: ‘Whatever you do, don’t
show surprise on your face,’ you say. ‘] need a
sword. Can you help me?’ He looks you up and
down, and then says, ‘No, ] can’t. But I know who
can, ifanyone can. Come with me.’ Will you go with
him (turn to 399), or leave him and try elsewhere for
a sword (turn to 137)?

218

‘You're all saying the same thing, really,’ you say.
The students look at you in disgust. You should
know better than to butt in on a group of students:
they are arguing because they are friends, not be-
cause they disagree with each other. They give you
the cold shoulder, and you decide to go up to the
Arts Floor, if you haven’t been there already {turn to
258); otherwise you leave the university {turn to
235)

219
You are nearing the end of your mission. You have
reached the outside of the long, low building where
the queen computer is housed — but you know that
an Arcadian patrol is not far behind. On the wal) by
the entrance is a panel consisting of a liquid crystal
display and two buttons, marked 1 and o. This is

| RN

220

what your whole adventure so far has been aiming
at — do you have the correct code? You will have to
enter the code for the door to open. Convert the
binary number to decimal, and turn to the para-
eraph with that number. If the paragraph makes no
sense, you have not entered the correct code, and
will be caught by the Arcadian patrol. If you do not
know how to convert binary to decimal, here is a
table:

5

DECIMAL| 256/128 64| 32| 16 | 8 4 2 | 1 |

ovary | ||| 1 y

Enter your binary number in the spaces provided.
Each time you enter 1, that decimal number is
relevant; you can ignore each space which contains
o. Add together all the relevant decimal numbers:
the total is the decimal equivalent of the binary
number.

220

The guards let you through without further delay.
Once inside the spaceport buildings, you shed your
disguise and make your way to your spaceship.
Turn to 78.

221-223

221
You find yourself in a cellar with further exits in the
eastern and western walls. Will you turn east (turn
to 186) or west (turn to 324)?

222

Turn to 400.

223

‘All right,’ Grus says eventually. He releases you
and sprints over to get the sword. ‘No funny busi-
ness now -— I’ve got the sword.’ You hand over the
500 credits from your money-belt, disguising the
fact that you have more by pretending to search for
the last 100-credit note and by looking depressed
about the transaction. Cross the 500 credits off your
Adventure Sheet. As Grus shoves you out of the door
at sword-point, you hear Indus on the visiphone,
telling the police where you are. You leave quickly
and return to the main road. Until you find another
weapon, all your battles must be conducted accord-
ing to the rules for unarmed combat. Turn to 132.

224-225

224
Some sixth sense alerts the guard to your approach,
and he wheels round to face you, For this fight,
reduce your SKILL by 1 point, because you are
unarmed.

ARCADIAN GUARD SKILL 6 STAMINA 10

If you win, you may take his sword, but you will
have to leave the spaceport immediately. Turn to

336.

225
Suddenly, a miracle occurs, Humans pour out of
nearby buildings, hurl bricks and tiles from the
roofs and rush in behind the Arcadians. Though
few of them are armed with more than clubs, they
make short work of the Arcadians. You join in the
fight and do your share, losing only 2 STAMINA
points of injury, but restoring 1 LUCK point for your
escape.

Afterwards, panting and in pain, but grinning from
ear to ear, you thank your saviours, Some of them
have already melted away, and others are knocking
in the door of Grus’s house. It turns out that you
have been followed ever since the affair at the
spaceport. ‘Anyone the Arcadians want to hurtisa
potential friend of ours,’ explains one, who appears
to be the leader. ‘But now we must take you to see
Bellatrix — we want to know more about you.’ ‘But
that’s who I want to meet,’ you exclaim. ‘We'll see,’
is the laconic reply,

226-227

Rough hands blindfold you. You are taken into one
ot the nearby houses, down some steps, and then
you get confused: you are led through tunnels that
twist and turn, several doorways, and part of the
sewage system, to judge by the smell, dankness and
weird echoing of your footsteps. The underground
on Tropos seems to be literally that, and to have a
system of connecting houses. Then, without warn-
ing, there is a heavy blow on the back of your head,
and you sink into unconsciousness. Turn to 207.

226

‘Is this what you want?’ you ask, offering the mind-
probe. In response, the shimmering seems to grow
more intense, and a sudden blast of heat makes you
drop the probe and stand back. The probe melts on
the ground. If you have the staff, you can try this
(turn to 267); if you don’t want to, or you don’t have
it, turn to 179.

227
If the robot does have a weakness, you cannot think
of it—there’s no time and too much pressure. Return
to 190 and fight it normally.

228-229

228
The shock-wave of the ziridium blast knocks you
unconscious. Deduct 2 STAMINA points and turn to

46.

229
‘Suspicious, aren’t you?’ says Grus. ‘Is that the
thanks I get? Allright, you can come in.’ The door is
opened by another man, who looks furtively both
ways down the side-street before ushering you in
and locking the door behind you

You are shown into a sparsely furnished room.
Everything looks harmless enough, but your
trained suspicions are suddenly aroused. Just then,
Grus shouts, ‘Grab him! But watch out — he’s
armed!’ Before you can react, Grus and the other
man pin you to the wall and take away your sword,
which they throw across the room, so that all their
hands are free to keep you where you are.

‘Set you up nicely, didn’t I?’ snarls Grus. ‘Though in
a way I’m sorry. Me and my buddy Indus here,
we're thieves. Got caught by the alien scum.’ He
spits the word out, ‘So now they use us as spies — it’s
either that or they kill us. I reckon we'll have repaid
our debt with this one, Indus.’

You struggle to get free. Roll a die. On 1-3, turn to
211; on 4—6, turn to 113.

230-231

230

The Areadian, whose name turns out to be Musca, is
obviously in a confused state; he changes from
being friendly to being suspicious at a moment's
notice. By cautious probing, you gradually dis-
cover that something has gone wrong with the
empathic receiver in his brain, which links him to
the Arcadian computer. He has held several posi-
tions of authority on Halmuris and Arcadion; you
guess that the constant decision-making that these
jobs involved has begun to free his will from the
enslaving grip of the computer. The side-effects
include blinding headaches, and a sense of confu-
sion and guilt. If you tread carefully, you have
obviously stumbled across what could be a valuable
source of information. Gain 1 Luck point. But before
you can ask any further questions, there is a knock
at the door, and the voice of the other Arcadian is
heard: ‘Do you by any chance have my friend in
there?’ His pleasant tone puts you on your guard.
Will you admit that Musca is with you (turn to 361)
or not (turn to 379)?

231

The guard pauses by the door to the arena. “The two
beasts you have to face,’ he tells you, ‘are first a
Laphodorm and then a Scabrok. Both are bred
specially for the games. The Laphodorm is a new
breed, and [know nothing aboutit. But the Scabrok,
though powerful, has one weakness; it is easily

232-233

distracted. It won’t fall for this trick twice, but you
can distract it once and get in a free attack.’ Before
you can thank him and ask his reasons for telling
you this, he opens the door and urges you through,
having given you a sword for the contest. Gain 1
LUCK point for the guard’s information. If you sur-
vive to fight the Scabrok, turn to 262 (remember this
number) when you are instructed to do so. Now
turn to 313.

232
Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, you make it down
the cliff without difficulty. If you are Unlucky, you
fall down the last bit and sustain 2 STAMINA points
of bruises. Then turn to 147 to continue the journey,

233

You dodge and weave through the pedestrians and
up and down alleyways, You manage to escape the
patrol, but ata cost of 1 STAMINA point. Eventually,
when all seems safe, you slump down ina doorway.
After a while, you realize that you can only go back
to the hostel and try again tomorrow, so you start to
get up. But at that moment, the door behind you
opens, and rough hands grab hold of you. Will you
attempt to put up a fight (turn to 156), or are you too
weak and depressed to bother (turn to 272)?

| SS eee

234~235

234

One of the remaining Arcadians is a Northerner, so
for every Attack Round that he is alive, roll an extra
die: on 5 or 6 he hits you with his tail, causing 2
STAMINA points of injury, whatever the result of
that Attack Round otherwise, You will have to fight
these two simultaneously, so choose which one you
are attacking, and conduct a normai Attack Round
against him. The other gets a free attack against you:
roll for Attack Strengths as usual, but nothing hap-
pens unless his Attack Strength is higher, in which
case he wounds you.

SKILL STAMINA
NORTH ARCADIAN 6 8
Second ARCADIAN 6 6

If you win, turn to 381.

235

You decide to go back to your hotel. If you had a
spot of bother with the Chief of Police at the Zodiac
earlier today, you have decided to go to Porky’s
Palace instead. On the monorail ride, you have the
impression that you are being followed, There is a
cab behind you, but then there always is on an
efficient monorail system, Will you pull into the
next drop station and get off (turn to 162), or will
you carry on to your hotel, thinking you'll be as safe
there as anywhere (turn to 27)?

236

It speaks: ‘Earthling, where zplaran?’ At least,
that’s what the last word sounds like. The voice is
strangely metallic and hollow; it certainly does not
come from any living being that you can imagine.
Perhaps it is a robot of some kind. If itis, then you
could attack it. Is this what you choose to do (turn to
179), or will you try to talk back toit, as itinches ever
closer to you (turn to 195)?

237
‘I don’t know what it’s like on Earth,’ says one of
your companions, ‘but here on Tropos it’s con-
sidered bad manners not to drink with friends.’
There is a decidedly unpleasant tone to his voice.
Will you respond to the insult (turn to 35), or meekly
drink up (turn to 322)?

238-240

238

The ‘job’ turns out to be stealing some of the luxury
goods from your own cargo. This confirms your
suspicion that you are dealing with a black mar-
keteer. The first journey is easy, since the Arcadian
guards find nothing odd in your visiting your own
spaceship. But you have to make three more jour-
neys before the black marketeer is satisfied. Test
your Luck three times. If at any time you are Un-
lucky, turn to 165; otherwise turn to 96.

239

You knock on the door of Professor Zacharias’s
office. ‘Come in,’ he calls. When you enter, you find
him just getting ready to leave fora lecture, ‘I’mina
hurry,’ he says. ‘What do you want?’ You tell him
that Mehita suggested you visit him. He looks at
you intently for a moment. ‘Did she? Did she in-
deed?’ he muses. ‘I have great faith in Mehita’s
feelings about people. Look, there’s no time now.
Come and see me after my lecture, in one hour.’ Will
you pass the time by attending his lecture (turn to
170), or have a cup of coffee in the students’ union
(turn to 182)?

240
“Who? Get lost,’ says the doorman. Will you do as
he says (turn to 95), or attempt to smash the locks
with your sword (turn to 366)? You can smash the
locks only if you still have your sword, of course.

241-243

241
You have pushed him too far, and he goes into total
physical collapse. You have no choice now but to
wait for a robot to come by, Turn to 278.

242

By the time you get close to the fleeing Arcadian, he
has turned into the main road and met up with a
patrol of his fellow Northern Arcadians. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 132; if you are
Unlucky, turn to 52

243

You edge around the boulder and then spring out,
sword at the ready. It seems that the Arcadian has
come to some decision, because his whippy is raised
above the cowering human’s head. The look of
surprise on the Arcadian’s face when you appear is
almost comical. But now he will turn his attention to
you.

CENTRAL ARCADIAN | skKILL7 STAMINA 8

244

He is not particularly strong, but he’s agile and
cunning. The first time he wounds you, roll an extra
die. On a roll of 4-6, he hurls some dust in your
eyes, and you must lose 1 SKILL point for the next
two Attack Rounds. But you only give him this one
opportunity: the rest of the fight will be as normal. If
you win, turn to 289.

244
After a while, the corridors quieten down, as most

of the students go off to lectures, Then one student
approaches the notice-board and, rather furtively,
pins up a poster. You just have time to see that it
announces some kind of demonstration, when the
young man is thrown to the floor by two others, and
his poster is ripped from the wall. The two louts
then proceed to beat him up, You're not going to
stand for that kind of behaviour, You will fight both
the louts simultaneously in unarmed combat. Each
Attack Round, choose which of them you will fight,
and conduct a normal Attack Round against him.
Against the other, roll for Attack Strengths as usual,
but even if your Attack Strength is higher, you do
not hurt him: you are preoccupied with his compan-
ion. If his Attack Strength is higher, however, he
hurts you.

SKILL STAMINA
First LOUT 6 8
Second LOUT 5 6

This is not a fight to the death. If your STAMINA is

245-246

reduced to 4, the fight is over and your opponents
run away. You, for your part, take care to knock
them out, not kill them, since they are only stu-
dents: the ‘sudden death’ rule of unarmed combat,
or reduction of your opponents’ sTAMINA to zero,
will count for unconsciousness rather than death.
After the fight, turn to 337,

245
You know that your first priority is to find some-
where sheltered to spend the night. You are follow-
ing a path through rough terrain, with a valley
sloping down to your left and rocky outcrops up the
hill to your right. After a while, you come across two
caves to your right, which look as though they are
deep enough to give you shelter. The right-hand
one is approached by a smooth gully which wends
tts way to the valley below; the left-hand one is
higher up, and its entrance is partially hidden by a
spiky, cactus-like plant. Will you enter the right-
hand cave (turn to 371) or the left-hand one (turn to

294)?

246

‘Your eminence,’ you grovel, ‘I... er... [had no
idea that the other spaceship was piloted by one of
my glorious masters. My desire is only to serve: |
thought it might be a pirate, and my concern was for
the safety of my cargo.’ Test your Luck to see if the
Arcadian believes you. If youare Lucky, turn to 144;
if you are Unlucky, turn to 129.

;

247-249

247
The two Arcadians remain out of sight for the rest of
the journey. When you land on Arcadion, they are
whisked off, and you are ordered to remain on your
ship while it is being refuelled for the return jour-
ney. There is no chance of escape. You have failed

248

Your bluff has been well and truly exposed. ‘Hal’
exclaims your questioner, ‘You're as bent as a trans-
dimensional rainbow.’ You decide that this is
neither the time nor the place to ask what these
mysterious South Arcadian words might mean, and
you leave, in considerable embarrassment. Lose 1
LUCK point and, for your next fight only, 1 sxrit
point for tipsiness, You make your Way over to the
other group, who are still discussing the passibility
of human rebellion. Turn to 289.

249
You get hopelessly lost, and more and more ex

hausted, as the heavy gravity of Halmuris takes its
toll. Reduce your stamina by 4 paint. Eventually,
you tind yourself in the administrative part of the
building, where you are promptly arrested and

ee

250-253

taken to an office where a Central Arcadian is work-
ing at a pile of papers. However, you manage to
persuade him that you are innocently lost, and he
gives you directions. Turn to 336.

— a a
a Sal The guards easily overwhelm you. Perhaps next
— time you will be less easily fooled and therefore less
likely to be betrayed,
251

The room beyond the Sphinx is dark, but a large
computer screen is resting ona table, and its green-
ish light, as information scrolls across its surface, is a
source of famt ilumination. Will you look at the
screen (turn to 319), or carry on (turn to 375)?

252
You leap up the steps and are immediately spotted
by an Arcadian patrol, who give chase. Test your
Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 233; if you are
Unlucky, turn to 330.

253
The object you grabbed was a jet pack, but it feels so
light that it may have no fuel left in it. You take it
anyway. The fire is bound to attract unwelcome
attention. You decide to leave the spaceport as soon
as possible. Turn to 336

————————— Se

254-256

254
There is another passage branching off to the south,
Will you take it (turn to 62) or continue straight on
(turn to 39)?

255
‘Dorado,’ you say, ‘I must go. But first tell me
what you know about the digits of the Arcadian
computer.’

‘Identify yourself,’ he says in reply. ‘What’s the
password?’ You will now either know what to do, or
you will get nothing more out of Dorado, however
much you protest that you cannot know his pass-
word, having only just arrived on the planet. You
have failed.

256

You can use this to make your opponents’ approach
slippery and hazardous, by quickly opening the can
and spilling the oil towards them. (Cross it off your
Equipment List.) This will reduce your first op-
ponent’s SKILL by 2 points; by the hme you meet
your second opponent, however, the fight has been
carried away from the slippery area. But the oil also
slows down your opponents, so that you have time
to grab another item from your pack, if you want to.
Do you choose the hand-klaxon (turn to 21) or the
strobe (turn to 79)? If you choose neither, return
now to resolve your fight

257-260

257
The passage leads into another cellar, with one exit
straight ahead, and another in the northern wall.
Will you go straight ahead (turn to 186) or north
(turn to 142)?

258
Do you have an introduction to anyone here? [f so,
turn to the paragraph which has the same number
as the room you need; otherwise turn to 76.

259

The pall of smoke provides excellent cover until you
are quite near the rocks. Then you are spotted, and
the silver craft races in pursuit. But the drifting
smoke causes it to misjudge the distance and, as you
squeeze into cover, it smashes into the rock-face
above vou and explodes. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 228; if you are Unlucky, turn ta 288.

260
‘Why on Tropos do you want to get to that old
place?’ asks the man suspiciously. ‘Been derelict for
years. If you wanta good time, some entertainment,

a __*

261~262

I can tell you where to go.’ You thank him, but tell
him that you have arranged to meet a friend outside
the Adolpho. He tells you that the Adolpho is not
far away, on North 20-East 7 Street. ‘And where
are we now” you ask. ‘Halfway up North 18—East 9
Street,” comes the reply. There is no time to lose;
you must get on with your mission. Will you go
north for one and a half blocks, then west for two
blocks (turn to 204), or north for two and a half
blocks, then west for two blocks (turn to 109)?

261

Musca is in a highly nervous state — and is playing
dangerously with the phaser. Will you rush him and
try to wrest it from him (turn to 59), or speak to him
(tuum to go)? ~

262
Good: you have remembered the Scabrok’s weak-
ness. At some point during the fight, you will be
able to distract its attention, perhaps by throwing

263-266

sand across its field of vision. Test your Luck. If you
are Lucky, turn to 341; if you are Unlucky, turn to

133.

263 |
More Arcadian guards are on their way, but you
make it through the gate, and they do not set out
after you. At first you wonder why, but then you
realize that they are leaving the freezing night to do
their work for them. There are various paths that
you could take. Will you go east (turn to 245), north
{turn to 342) or south (tur to 181)?

264
The situation looks desperate, but you are deter-
mined to die like a hero, fighting against tyranny
and perhaps inspiring future humans. Did you get
beaten up at the spaceport? If so, turn to 225; if not,
turn to 250.

265
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 69; if you are
Unlucky, turn to 36.

266
You join a group of students who are hanging
around a drink-dispensing machine on the Science
Floor, and are having a heated scientific discussion.
Will you chip into the conversation (tum to 218), or
keep quiet (turn to 11)?

:
267-270

267

‘This zplaran?’ you ask, finding yourself speak-
ing the same pidgin Arcadian as the weird thing.
‘Zplaran,’ replies the thing, in a voice which sounds
decidedly unfriendly to you, but is apparently not.
The staff is whisked out of your hand into the shaft
of light, where it hangs, suspended by goodness
knows what. Both the changing form and the shaft
of light proceed to vibrate very rapidly, but in eerie
silence. If the staff is broken, turn to 179; otherwise
turn to 308.

268
‘Bravo!’ cries the man, as you switch off your sword.
‘But now we'd better get out of here. Come with
me.’ Will you tell him you'd rather be left alone (turn
to 314), or will you go with him (turn to 394)?

269

You enter a room full of dully glistening machinery.
A voice speaks from all around: ‘Human, this is the
computer speaking. You have done well to get this
far. As you see, Iam at your mercy: you can pro-
gram me to your heart's content.’ Will you attempt
to program the computer (turn to 205), or will you
leave this room too (turn to 94)?

270
There is no point in fighting him — there are too
many people around. Will you offer him 500 credits
{turn to 201) or a ziridium-plated bracelet, if you

271-274

have one (turn to 365)? If you cannot afford this, or
think that it is not worth bribing him, you leave for
the university (turn to 146).

= i
The phaser cuts down two members of the patrol,
but then jams, presumably because it has not been
used for a long time. You hurl it away in disgust.
You will have to draw your sword to fight the
remaining two. Roll one die. If the number is even,
turn to 234; if itis odd, turn to 24.

272
Your captors are human. They blindfold you and
lead you down into the ceilar, where, to your sur-
prise, a draught indicates the presence of a corridor
But that is your last impression for a while—a heavy
blow to your head knocks you unconscious. Turn to
207

273
Of the humans on the base, some are wearing grey
umforms, some blue. Will you ask someone in grey
(turn to 197) or in blue (turn to 217)? Or will you try
to get a sword off an Arcadian (turn to 16)?

274
‘Why are you hesitating?’ asks Bellatrix. Will you
say that you know he’s not a double agent (turn to
307), or that you need more proof (turn to 343)?

275-277

275
Lose 4 Luck point for failing to help a fellow human.

Turn to 114,

276
The buttons are so close together that you cannot
tell which one the policeman was reaching for when
you attacked him. Will you try the left-hand button
(turn to 180) or the right-hand one (turn to 386)?

277
The passage leads you into a cellar with no other
exit. You stop only to raid a show-case of some
irresistible Earth coins, dating from the First
soviet—Brazilian Alliance. Then you turn back and
head east along the corridor you were in before
(turn to 346).

278~280

278

You have to wait some time until a robot comes
to deliver the Arcadian’s meal. Meanwhile, the
Arcadian has just sat slumped on the floor. You
order the robot to release you, ‘Why, certainly,
boss,’ it replies. ‘Anythin’ you say.’ There are times
when you find a robot's programmed chirpiness out
of place! It releases you, however, and you put the
Arcadian in your place. But your long wait has
weakened you even further, and the rest and food
which you now take restores only 2 STAMINA
points, Then turn to 292.

279

You make it through the wire and sprint for cover.
You are just in hme —a patrol reaches the gap in the
wire just as you dive behind a tree. But they do not
set out after you: they think that the freezing night
will do its deadly work. They may be right. You are
on the east side of the spaceport, and there are
various paths. Will you go east (turn to 245), north
(turn to 342) or south (turn to 181}?

280
The barman comes over to you with a drink. ‘Your
drink, sir,” he says. “But I didn’t order a drink,’ you
protest. ‘Your drink, sir,’ he repeats, firmly. Will
you refuse the drink, thinking it may be drugged
(turn to 237), or accept it (turn to 322)?

281-283

281
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 104; if you
are Unlucky, turn to 82.

282

Of course! The aerial! It must be a means of detect-
ing structural weaknesses in buildings. That is why
the robot only thumps irregularly — when it senses
that a building is weak enough to crack. However,
there is no point in simply stopping by a firm
building, because you would have to stay there and
would be easy prey for the police when they arrive.
You must return to 1go and fight the machine;
because of the light gravity on this planet, every
time you have a successful Attack Round against the
machine, you may either deduct 2 STAMINA points
as a result of anormal blow, or you may leap into the
air and swipe at the aerial, causing loss of 1 SKILL
point for the machine.

283
‘No, there’s no fime for that,’ calls your friend. ‘1
know what you're thinking — that he might have
seen your face; but soon the whole area will be
swarming with the swine.’ Will you persist, pre-
ferring to take this risk rather than that of being

284-285

identified to the authorities (turn to 378), or will you
wait now to see what your friend does next (turn to

41)?

284
So near, and yet so far. He is obviously pro-
Arcadian. He promptly summons the local police to
arrest you.

285
You are getting quite close to your hotel, when you
see ahead something large moving towards you.
You wait until you can see it clearly. Oh, no! The
glinting body of a robot killer is trundling towards
you on hidden wheels. It is just like a metal cylinder,
with only one feature breaking the pitiless mon-
otony of its structure — an aerial on top. It has no
humanoid features: no arms, no legs, no face —
nothing that looks familiar or that you can under-
stand. You haven't the faintest idea of how it will
attack or, therefore, how you should defend your-
self against it. You know that your blows will have
some effect on the soft metal of this planet, but it

eee

286

looks as though it has been built to withstand many
such attacks: you need some way to shorten the
fight

The robot's first attack comes without warning. A
gigantic thump strikes the ground, sending you
tumbling, and making roof-tiles and small bits of
masonry hurtle down from the buildings all around
you, You have no idea how the robot causes the
thump, but, if you have been told about the ‘Street
Fighter’, you know that it has been aptly named. If
you have a baryon grenade, turn to 388; if not, turn
to 190.

286
‘Yes, Ecan sell you a sword,’ he replies. ‘It'll cost you
1,000 Credits.’ Do you have enough money? If you
do, and you are prepared to pay this exorbitant
price, do so and then burn to 84 If you cannot or will
not pay him, you will have to do a job for him
instead (turn to 238).

287
‘Never heard the name before,’ says the doorman.
‘Get lost, creep.’ Will you do as he says (turn to 95),
or attempt to smash the locks with your sword {turn
to 366)? You can only smash the locks if you still
have your sword, of course.

y

; =

288
You are showered with fragments of the exploding
craft. Deduct 4 STAMINA points and, if you are still
alive, turn to 46.

289

289

The Arcadians are amazed at your cheek in butting
into their conversation. One particularly loud-
mouthed North Arcadian turns out to be the Chief
of Police. He says he can prove his point: even if
humans did rebel, they would easily be defeated,
since they are the weaker species. ‘Come outside
with me,’ he says. ‘Won't be long,’ he boasts to the
others.

His meaning is unmistakable: he is challenging
you to an unarmed duel. You follow him and his
drunkenly laughing witness to a deserted area
where the hotel rubbish units are. His friend, gig-
gling, slips down in a stupor against a wall. In this
fight, you dare not produce yaur sword, so follow
the rules for unarmed combat; but he can use his
tail. Every Attack Round, ona roll of 5 or 6 with an
extra die, he will inflict 2 StAMINa points of imyury
on you, whatever the result of that Attack Round
otherwise.

POLICE CHIEF SKILL 8& STAMINA 10

If you win, turn to 329

290-292

290

In the morning, you knock on the door of the
Arcadians’ quarters, with the pretext of inquiring
after Musca’s health. The other Arcadian answers
your knock, opens the door a fraction and tells you
to go away. Will you do as he says, and await
another opportunity (turn to 247), or kick in the
door (turn to 281)?

291

You switch off your sword and hide it again. But
now what will you do? There are guards outside the
door. Will you open the door and try to bluff your
way past the guards (turn to 87), or will you investi-
gate the buttons on the desk (turn to 276)?

292
It takes time and cautious questioning, but from the
two Arcadians, who are now no threat to you, you
learn three crucial pieces of information: that some
of the weapons which the Empire brought back to
preserve its own safety are stored in am arsenal
in the basement of the computer building on
Arcadion; that the code for entering this arsenal is
110; and that the computer consists of three main
parts, all of which must be destroyed to guarantee
elimination of the machine. Gain 2 LUCK points. You
are now approaching Arcadion, so turn to 118.

(ie

293-295

293

As the door shuts behind you, horror grips your
guts. Bright light springs out from hidden lamps
and reveals that you are in a room of distorting
mirrors. Even the door behind you is mirrored. A
laser beam shoots out from one side and bounces off
a mirror at an unpredictable angle. Inan instant you
are surrounded by laser beams, forming a crazy ran-
dom pattern of burning light. One blasts your leg
from its socket; another takes three fingers of your
left hand. Then another strikes, and another. .

294
As you approach the mouth of the cave, you
stumble on a loose rock. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 193; if you are Unlucky, turn to 143.

295
‘Come on, fellow humans,’ you cry, hoping for
a response. ‘Now is the time to free yourselves!’
Ten humans range themselves by your side. You

295

are stil! outnumbered, however, since the raiding
Arcadians are joined by the ones in the club; and
none of your companions has a sword. During the
fight, you have to take on four Arcadians, one at a
time. If you are unarmed, reduce your SKILL by 1
point for this encounter. Fight your opponents in
this order:

; SKILL STAMINA
First ARCADIAN 8 12
Second ARCADIAN A 8
Third ARCADIAN 7 6
Fourth ARCADIAN 6 6

Do you have anything in your pack to help you in
this fight? If you think you do, remember this
reference (295), to which you will have to return, but
meanwhile turn to 198. If by some miracle you
survive, will you take up from where you were so
rudely interrupted by going over to the visiphone
booth (turn to 321), or will you leave the club,
feeling that you have drawn too much attention to
yourself already (turn ta 252)?

296

After walking for quite a while, the path passes
through an area which is sprinkled with large
boulders. You can hear voices - one Arcadian, one
human —coming from behind one of the boulders. It
seems that a Central Arcadian has a human at his
mercy and, in a manner typical of his kind, has
paused to think about all the possibilities open to
him. The human, meanwhile, is pleading with the
Arcadian to stop theorizing and get on with it. Will
you skirt this area to avoid confrontation (turn to
275), or try to rescue the man (turn to 243)?

297
Well done! The door slides open easily and lets you
into an ante-chamber before sliding shut again be-
hind you. Only then do the next doors open — and

ee

298

there are four more sets of doors; this is to keep the
building as free as possible from dust. Once inside,
you can see the computer room ahead, but there are
also some steps down to a basement. Will you go
straight to the computer room (turn to 381), or down
to the basement first (turn to 169)?

298
You leap down on to the ledge, away from the nest,
so as to have a secure landing. Your precipitous
arrival awakens the bird, which instinctively attacks
you

ROCKBUZZARD SKILL 6 STAMINA 8

If you win without being wounded by its beak or
talons, turn to 40. However, if you are wounded
once, this means that the bird has got past your
flashing sword, and its weight will knock you off the
ledge to die on the path below.

299

299

Once you are out of the spaceport you have no
problems finding a hover-taxi. You climb in and
instruct the microcomputer to take you south into
town. You notice that a camera has been fixed in the
taxi — there has been no attempt to disguise it
Presumably it transmits everything it sees to the
Arcadian police headquarters, and presumably
there is a listening device as well, It is a good thing
that they cannot read minds, because your thoughts
are racing. You know three things about the under-
ground leader on Tropos: the codename Bellatrix;
that he or she can be located through a club called
the Fission Chips, which is in the city you are
heading for; and that Bellatrix rules the rebels
strictly, with a code of honour that all must obey.
That's quite a lot to be going on — it’s more than you
know about the rebels on other planets—and should
make your task on Tropos relatively easy, if you act
sensibly.

The other thing occupying your mind is that most of
the Arcadians on Tropos seem to be members of the
warlike Northern species. The presence of so many
of these natural fighters could make your mission
on Tropos more hazardous. Why have so many of
them been posted here? Are they closing in on the
rebels? Do the Arcadians know that the Fission
Chips is more than it seems? There are many un-
answered questions, but you turn your mind to the
task at hand, There are still six hours to go before
curfew. Will you instruct the taxi to take you straight

Oe... °¢°
400-302

to the Fission Chips (turn to 176), or to the hostel at
which off-planet humans have to stay (turn to 196)?

300
The experiment begins. Electrodes attached to the
Arcadian’s skull are connected to those attached to
yours via the devilish device. You are strapped to
your seat with wrist-fetters. How will you prepare
your mind for what follows? Will you clear it (turn to
141), or follow your own trains of thoughts and
memories to provide a barrier against the Arcadian
imposing his own ideas (turn to 357)?

301

You wait for hours. As dusk descends, a grinning
alien face appears at the high grille. ‘So,’ he says,
‘you have chosen to try your skill at our gladiatoria!
games. This is the door into the arena. Now you
must spend the night here; in the morning the
games will be assembled.’ Gain 1 LucK point for
choosing the right door, and turn to 349.

302

You have to use the same method for getting back
in, even though you know that it will set off the
alarm. You choose a spot well away from any guard-
post, and you are hidden among the outbuildings
by the time a patrol comes to investigate the break.
You make your way innocently to your spaceship.
Turn to 78

303-395

303
The man has gone by the time you get back (lose 1
LUCK point). Clearly, he thought it unhealthy to
hang around - and rightly, because an Arcadian
patrol is on its way and has only been delayed by the
body of the compatriot of theirs who you have just
cut down. You walk casually out of the other end of
the street and into the busy main road. Turn to 132.

304
You break a leg. You can either wait for night, or call
for help. Either way, your mission is over.

395
No sooner have you sat down than you notice that
one of them, a young woman, is wearing a jacket
whose buttons have a curious design of an eagle
clutching a scroll — and that one button is missing.
Do you have the missing button? If so, turn to 347;
otherwise, turn to 103.

306-308

306

Porky is a bit cautious about answering; he says it’s
best not to inquire too closely into some events on
Radix. But he mutters something about a killing
machine called the ‘Street Fighter’, and how the
authorities have got paranoid enough recently to
use it even to break up student demonstrations.
That's all you can get out of him. It looks as though
the university might be a good starting-point. The
monorail takes you near the main entrance. Will you
plunge straight in (turn to 146), or wait around
outside for a while (turn to 178)?

307
Why did you say that? There’s no way you can know
any such thing. From the point of view of your
inquisitors, you would be so sure that they are
wrong about the barman only if you were an Arca-
dian agent yourself, with inside knowledge about
other agents. A bad mistake - and a fatal one.

308
“Now I have power,’ says the being. ‘Enough for
even my voice-box to function correctly.’ A wheez-
ing noise follows, which you think might bea laugh.
‘I can grant you one favour with this power, then I
must return to my galaxy. This is to repay you for
rescuing the cplaran from the darkness where |
cannot go.” Will you ask it to restore some of your
STAMINA (turn to 363), or if by any chance it knows
the whereabouts of the man you are seeking (turn

to 377)?

perl ii Fr eM ah

‘> 1 Ss

309-311

_ 309
You reach the haven of your hotel. If it is Porky’s
Palace and you have not been here before, pay 50
credits for the night. If you need to find a computer,
turn to 158; otherwise turn to 134.

310
The humans in grey uniforms are the cleaning and
catering staff. You approach one with your ques-
tion, and he tells you that the agricultural station is
about ten kilometres to the north-east of the
spaceport. You decide that your next priority is a
sword. Wil] you ask the same man about this (turn
to 197), try someone in blue (turn to 217}, or attempt
to get one off an Arcadian (turn to 16)?

311
The door of the booth hisses shut behind you. ‘Now
what” you wonder. Maybe you could ring up an old
school friend who settled on Tropos; maybe this is a
trap; maybe .. . What was that click? A hatch has
opened up in the ceiling! Oh, no- gas! A thick cloud
soon envelops you. As you collapse, you hear your-
self coughing, but it seems to come from far away.
Then the floor beneath you drops away, and you
tumble down a chute, but never feel yourself reach
the bottom. Turn to 207

322-313

312
The problem with this is that you have only the one
grenade, and its blast wiil knock out only one of the
computers. Will you choose the one against the wall
opposite the door (turn to 139), the one against the
wall to the left (turn to 203), or the one against the
wall to the right (turn to 51)? Alternatively, you may
return to 381 and choose again, if you have another
choice to make.

313

You have no choice; you enter the arena. The door
swings shut behind you. You are overwhelmed by
the dazzling sunlight, the roar of the crowd and the
strange smell of the pale blue Radician sand on the
ground. You assess your predicament: high barriers
surround the arena; the ground is covered with
sand. This is it, then. You will have no help apart
from yourself,

A sudden hush fills the arena. A door on the other
side opens and out comes the most hideous beast
you have ever seen or imagined - a Laphodorm,
bred for grotesqueness as well as fighting ability. It
1s covered in red scales; it has a retractable neck, like
a tortoise; its head js like a lion’s, roughly, but the
tongues which dart from its slavering jaws remind
you more of a multitude of snakes. Resolve your

battle:
LAPHODORM SKILE 7 STAMINA 12

If you win, turn to 106.

314-315

314
‘Have it your way,’ he says, scowling. ‘But since you
are armed, I assume that you have some particular
reason for being on Tropos, You refuse my help —
but you may need help some time.’ You thank him,
but leave alone. Out on the street, you must get
away as quickly as possible, and find the Fission
Chips. You know that north heads out of town, so
you turn south (turn to gg).

315

Musca remained surprisingly calm throughout the
fight, but starts to grovel rather embarrassingly in
front of you when you have won. You take advan-
tage of the situation and order him to tell you what
he knows about the computer on Arcadion. In a
halting voice, he tells you that he knows nothing,
but that the dead Arcadian knew more. However,
you do find out that one of the Arcadian arsenals is
in the basement of the computer building, and that
its entry-code is 110, Gain 1 LUCK point. You are
now nearing Arcadion itself; turn to 118

"
7
SS eee

316-319

316
The two disks count as a single item in your pack. If
you already have the limit of six items, you must
shed one to accommodate the disks. Now you must
find a computer. You leave the university before
your crime is discovered. Turn to 235.

317
You spend the whole day searching fruitiessly
around the city, and even try the university again,
but you find no clues. You have failed in your
mission

318
The patrolling Arcadians scarcely give you a second
glance. Before you reach Customs, the next check-
point, do you want to get rid of any of your equip-
ment? If so, you find a safe spot in the human’s
washroom to do so. Whether or not you dumped
any equipment, turn to 33.

319
As you look into the screen, it spells out a single
message: ‘Curiosity can kill the cat.’ It is true. The
computer has offered you knowledge, and you have
fallen for the trap. Your defences are down, and the
Arcadian computer has taken over your mind. Your
misslon is over.

320-322

= 320
In your dusty and dishevelled state, you judge it
unwise to return to the main museum. Perhaps
there is a way out of these cellars. You search
the body of the watchman and take his bundle of
keys. Before you can search the body any further,
however, the watchman’s comlink beeps and an
Arcadian voice comes through, asking where he is.
Now the search will be on!

The cellar you are in has two corridors leading off its
east wall. Behind you is the staircase up to the main
museum. Will you take the left-hand passage (turn
to 127) or the right-hand one (turn to 257)?

321
‘Well, then,’ he continues, ‘we need someone to
take Corvus’s place, don’t we? You have a choice,’
he says to you. ‘You can either carry out a little job
for us, or die.” Will you fight your captors (turn to
80) or do as the man suggests (turn to 238)?

322
You swig it down — but it is drugged. When you first
arrived on Tropos, did you try to catch a taxi straight
to the club? If so, turn to 372; otherwise, turn to 207

323-326

323
Miraculously, your speed carries you through the
danger relatively unharmed. But your exertions,
scratches and burns cost you 2 STAMINA points. The
alien craft was unable to track you through the
smoke, and is now some way off, Will you sprint for
the building (turn to 338) or the rocks {turn to 259)?

324
You find yourself back in the first cellar, where you

killed the watchman. The search-party is waiting for
you. Your mission is over.

IMDS ' ee

. ‘ ' — -
>”: i. “\ a2 ;
- . e- hee } - 7)
—— ye s : . 4 vit ‘
— ,

325
Whatever method you have used for removing the
casing, your death will follow soon, as the liquid
helium you have released floods over the floor, and
freezes your feet before it evaporates. With all feel-
ing gone in your feet, you fall over, snapping them
off at the ankles.

%

326
The doorman looks at you carefully, then shuts the
peep-hole. After a moment, you hear bolts being
shot on the other side of the door, and you are let in,
Membership of the club costs 250 credits. While the
doorman is making out your membership card, you
survey the scene. The clientele is mixed human and
Arcadian, but there are only a few Arcadians, and
they are mostly Southerners. The Arcadian section
is very comfortable, with padded seats, real wooden

| :
327-328

tables and waiter service. The human section is
cheaply equipped with stained and scarred formo-
plas furniture. The air is thick with the smell of
alcohol and the smoke of glazium, a mild legal drug
One or two of the Arcadians, however, are showing
how they are superior to the law, by openly smok-
ing tobacco.

The doorman interrupts your observation by hand-
ing you the membership card and saying, ‘Just one
more thing, sir — a security precaution. I’m sure
you'll understand. Our Arcadian clients insist on it.’
He buzzes a metal detector swiftly over your body,
which tells him nothing, of course; and there is
nothing too suspicious in your pack. Then he begins
to frisk you. If you no longer have your sword, this
does not alarm you (turn to 64). If you do still have
your sword, will you say that you have changed
your mind and teave the club (turn to 390), or will
you submit to the search (turn to 358)?

i
Unfortunately, no further opportunities present
themselves, and you perish in the freezing cold as
night draws in.

328
In your weakened state, you are unable to prevent
the policeman diving for the desk and pressing the
buzzer. Guards pour in, too many for you to fight.
They cut you down in an instant.

329-3390

329

The North Arcadian’s friend is struggling to get to
his feet; you quickly knock him out. Then you
search the Police Chief’s pockets and find 750
credits, which you take, and his notebook. This is
full of day-to-day police business, but one item
catches your attention: ‘Check on Z. at university.’
This could be your starting-point. It is too danger-
ous fo go back into the hotel, so you set out for the
university immediately. The monorail drops you
near the university. Will you plunge straight in
(turn to 146), or wait around outside fora bit (turn to
178)?

330

However much you dodge and weave through the
pedestrians and alleyways, the patrol draws inexor-
ably closer. At last, a helpful passer-by trips you up,
and before you can get up, five assorted laser
swords and whippies slash down on your unpro-
tected head and back. You have failed — and no one
is to blame but yourself.
331-335

331
It is not your sword-hand that has been injured.
Reduce your sTaMINA by 2 points for the agony. If
you have not yet done so, you can explore the other
crack by turning to 355; if you think that it is time to
continue your journey, turn to 10.

332
There is nothing you can do with a laser sword,
unless you can get to the bowels of the computers,
by removing the casing. Is this what you choose to
do (turn to 325)? If you have an alternative, you
could return to 381 and choose again

333
You are walking along a dusty passage. Cobwebs

brush your face; the red eyes and streamlined form
of some Radician rodent show up briefly in the dim
light. Some way along, another passage branches
off to the north. Will you continue straight ahead
(turn to 346), or turn north (turn to 277)?

334
Will you fight the man (turn to 157), or run away

(turn to 124)?

335
‘Never heard of it,’ replies the man, ‘but you could

try the hardware shop next door.’ You thank him
politely, You had better go to the hardware shop.
Turn to 382.

:

oa

336-338

336

You return to the main part of the spaceport, to get
your bearings. The freezing night is not far off. How
will you get off the base? It is surrounded by a high
perimeter wire fence, and both its main entrances,
to the west and east, are guarded. If you have a jet
pack, turn to 128; if you have a pair of wire-cutters,
turn to 393; if you have neither of these, turn to 2.

337
The young man you rescued takes you to the stu-

dents’ bar and buys you some drink and food
(restore 3 STAMINA points). You join some friends
of his at a table. ‘Hey, you lot!” exclaims the young
man. ‘This Earthling here just gave a couple of Black
Eyes black eyes!’ When the inevitable questions
have died down, you ask who the Black Eyes are,
and learn that they are a pro-Arcadian political
group. The students are planning a demonstration
against the personal files that the University Secret-
ary keeps about every member of the university, but
the Black Eyes agree with the system. Eventually,
you take your leave. Will you go to the Science
Floor, if you haven’t been there already (turn to
266), the University Secretary’s office (turn to 214),
or will you leave the university (turn to 235)?

338
About halfway there, the cover of smoke ends. You
are immediately spotted and cut down.

339-342

339
You manage to persuade him that the item is harm-

less. Turn to 374.

349
You turn to grapple with him, but the butt of his
phaser connects squarely with your temple, and
you crash to the floor, ‘Such a pity,’ he says. ‘l was
looking forward to our little experiment.’ Then he
blasts you out of existence.

341
When you distract the Scabrok, you manage tc hit a
particularly vulnerable spot, and injure the monster
in such a way that you reduce its SKILL by 1 point
and its STAMINA by 2 points. In other words you can
fight it as follows:

SCABROK

If you win, turn to 54.

SKILL 7 STAMINA 12

342
You know that your first priority is to find some-
where sheltered to spend the night. After a while
you come across a tree — or perhaps itis a large bush,
or even a leaf-covered stone. All you can see is
dense foliage, moving gently, as if in a breeze, and
reaching to the ground from about three metres up.
You walk round it: it is the same on all sides. If you
could penetrate it, it 1s so dense that it would

a a

343

provide shelter: that is how it stays alive in the
sub-zero temperatures, presumably, Will you try to
get inside (turn to 208), or do you mistrust this
mysteriously moving plant and carry on (turn to

327)?

343
‘Ah! A sense of justice. That tips the balance in his

favour, don’t you think?’ Bellatrix asks the other
two. They agree. Besides, as one of the men points
out, you know so little about your inquisitors that
even if you were a spy, the information you could
pass on would cause only a temporary halt to the
rebel operation

‘All right,’ says Bellatrix. ‘I'll tell you what I know
It’s not much after all your efforts, I’m afraid.
Rumour hasit that the Northern Arcadians made up
a marching-song to help them remember a sequence
of three of the digits. I don’t know what they are,
however, or where this sequence comes in the
whole series of digits; but here’s the song, for what
it’s worth:

Oh! Mortal combat is such joy:

No messing about, no subtle ploy.

Empire of Arcadion! Empire of Arcadion!
Onward, ever onward!

Open pitched battles make me high:
Never mind the odds — let’s do or ate!
Evermore Arcadion! Empire of Arcadion!”
344-345

That's all you can get from Bellatrix, so the infor-
mation from the other two planets is absolutely
crucial. All your equipment is returned to you: you
are pleased by their generosity and trust in replac-
ing your sword, if you had lost it. Restore 2 Luck
points for the information and equipment. They
also have a vial of quandar-root lotion, which will
heal 4 STAMINA points of wounds, but you have to
buy the vial from them for 50 credits and use it
immediately. Do so if you want, then turn to 25.

344
You walk boldly up to the eastern entrance in your

disguise, The guards call you to halt, and ask what
you have been doing off the base, and where you
came from. You explain that you left by the western
entrance. Will you say that you have been attending
to a broken-down helicopter (turn to 26), or taking
provisions out to a patrol {turn to 220)?

345
After racking your conscience, you decide that your

mission is more important than any single cell of the
underground, and that you can tell them enough to
keep them happy without giving everything away.
You do so. The following day, having checked your
information, the commandant returns. ‘All right,
Earthling,’ he says. “Your sentence is commuted
from certain death to probable death.’ He laughs
mockingly and takes you under guard to a room
which has two doors leading from it

ee i ee

346

‘One of these doors leads to instant death; the other
leads to a gladiatorial ring. Such fights are one of our
amusements. We often send criminals through one
or the other of the doors.’ The guards are watching
you closely, and you realize that they will kill you if
you show the slightest resistance. ‘Ifyou. ..er.. .
partake of our contest and defeat the two beasts we
will send against you, we will escort you back to
your spaceship. After the information you have
given us, it would be better for you not to fall into
the hands of your fellow humans, don’t you think?
Now, make your choice — which door?’

Will you go through the right-hand door (turn to
293) or the left-hand one (turn to 397)?

346
The comdor, which is lined with packing-cases and

other museum objects, gradually curves around to
the right, until you are heading west instead of east.
There is a passage heading south (turn to 62), or you
can continue straight ahead (turn to 8).

347-348

347

She is fascinated by the story of how you found the
button, but points out that that does not necessarily
prove that you are not an Arcadian spy, sent to
discover the killer of the receptionist at the hostel.
She thinks for a bit. ‘All night,’ she says eventually.
‘This is what you do. I’m going to leave. Five
minutes after I’ve done so, you enter the visiphone
booth over there. Then we'll see...

Itall sounds a bit suspect to you, but you really have
no choice. You cannot follow her, since her muscle-
bound friends are surrounding you. After a while,
one of them says, out of the corner of this mouth,
‘OK, gol’ Turn to 81.

348
As you leave the arsenal, the door hisses shut
behind you, and a mechanical voice says: ‘The
eniry-code is now changed, The new code will be
circulated to authorized personnel.’ That’s a secur-
ity device you hadn’t expected; there'll be no return-
ing to the arsenal, then.

Your next problem is that because of the size of the
arsenal, it took quite a time to find the items you
needed, and you emerge from the stairs to be con-
fronted by an Arcadian patrol]. You can use against
them nothing that you may have taken from the
arsenal except a photon grenade and a hand-
phaser. If you use the grenade, turn to 86; if you use
the phaser, turn to 271; if you have neither of these,
you are dead.

ey — ee eee

349-352

349
In the morning you wake up only slightly refreshed

from 4 sleep troubled with nightmares. You are
woken by a guard, who gives you a bow! of slops.
‘We don’t want you too weak for the games,” he
says. You may restore 3 STAMINA points for the rest
and food. When the guard returns, will you attack
him (turn to 206), or let him lead you away (turn to
231)?

350
Framed in the doorway is one of the Arcadians, who
looks startled, ‘T [have a headache," he says. ‘At
least, I think that’s why I'm here, but . . .” He trails
off. Will you tell him that the medical robot will
bring some interferon to his cabin (turn to 212), or
invite him in (turn to 230)?

351
You manage to catch up with the fleeing Arcadian
before he reaches the main thoroughfare. In his
weakened state, he shouldn't be difficult to dis-
patch.

ARCADIAN THUG SKILL 5

If you win, turn to 7.

STAMINA 6

352
The grenade fails to explode. Turn to 190.

353-354

353
The man behind the desk says wearily, ‘Teach him
not to interrupt.” A sharp jab to your kidneys re-
duces your STAMINA by 2 paints, When you can
stand again, turn to 321

354
‘Cheer up!’ you say heartily, as you dump yourself

on to the bed, whose springs respond with alarming
bongs. ‘It may never happen.’

‘It already has,’ moans the man.
‘What do you mean? Where are you from?’ you ask.

‘Oh, I'm from Tropos. I’m only staying here because
those murdering swine have made me homeless.
They suspect me of being a rebel, you see. My wife

. my children .. .’ He breaks down again and
sobs, with his face buried in his hands.

Will you stay with him to try to calm him down (turn
to 136), or will you quietly leave him be in his grief
(turn to 60}?

355

355
The crack is deep and narrow, and you cannot reach

too far. The strength of the bird, which you already
Knew from your fight with it, is further proved by
the size of the objects you find —- smailer things have
presumably fallen into the inaccessible depths of the
fissure. Apart from some useless chunks of metal
anda broken spy missile, you find a staff with seven
strips of different metals coiled around its wooden
stem, a casket containing 180 credits, and a mind-
probe. The probe will fit into your anti-grav pack,
and you put the money in your money-belt, but if
you take the staff, it will make your descent down
the cliff more risky, since you will have to carry it by
hand. Even more alarming is the fact that a faint
power seems to be suggesting that you take the
staff, You cannot tell whether the power is good or
evil, but you are able to resist it, if you want to. Note
down on your Equipment List what you take, Will
you now explore the other fissure (turn to 14), or
climb back down to the path to continue your
journey (turn to 10)?

356
He tells you that it leads to the cellars where the
museum stores all the artefacts it has no room to
display, and he offers to show you around. Will you
accept (turn to 392), or go to the university (turn to
146)?

357
This does not work: it gives the Arcadian easy access

to your thought processes, which he can then use
for his own purposes. Turn to 55.

358

He is very thorough, and soon finds your sword. He
does not remove it, however, but talks in a low
voice, as if to himself, while pretending to frisk you
further: ‘Interesting, very interesting. A sword
treated to avoid metal-detection, No Arcadian spy
would need such precautions. I think you’ve prob-
ably come to the right place. Wait by the bar for a
few minutes, and then make your way to the
visiphone booth.’ Turn to 37.

359
Your fall only winds you. Discard the now useless

piece of equipment, and turn to 30

360
The door withstands your best efforts. You rub your
shoulder ruefully, and must deduct 1 STAMINA
point, Now you have no alternative but to wait.
Turn to 301.

361

You smile at Musca, as if to say, ‘It’s all right’, and
unlock the door to the other Arcadian, who is
carrying a phaser! Musca must be important, if a
phaser has been issued from the arsenal to guard
him. You are now committed to a bold and risky
course of action. You will have to get rid of Musca’s
‘friend’, but against a phaser you stand no chance in
direct combat. Will you tel] the other Arcadian that
you know everything (turn to 167), or let him take
Musca away for the time being (turn to 290)?

362

.
> «

362

Before you can do anything else, the door to the club
bursts open and a dozen Northern Arcadians burst
in, led by a grim-faced Central Arcadian. In a flash,
you suspect that you have led them here, by men-
tioning the club in a bugged taxi, ‘Watch out! Raid!’
shrieks the doorman, the last word ending on a
gurgle as a laser sword cauterizes his lungs. Im-
mediately the bar is in turmoil; those who are not
frozen to their seats are rushing around yelling.
What will you do? It could be you they are after, so
will you give yourself up, hoping to save the under-
ground operation in the club (turn to 192)? Or will
you fight (turn to 295)?

363-365

363
It touches you lightly with the staff and you feel
invigorated. Whether this is science or superstition,
you may restore 4 STAMINA points, and turn to 114.

364
A mocking laugh is the only response. The traitor!
He must have warned the authorities by visiphone.
There is no time now to try another house. You will
have to defend yourself. Turn to 264.

365
His eyes widen when he sees the bracelet — this is a
rare treasure indeed. He looks around furtively and
pockets it (cross it off your Adventure Sheet). Greed
has overcome his sense of duty. Turn to 392.

366

A few swift strokes gain you entry into the club. ‘For
SAROS’s sake, you shouldn’t have done that,’
whispers the doorman. ‘We cannot put our opera-
tion at risk by openly defending such foolish action.’
He scarpers to make way for the onrush of several
Arcadians, who had been sitting quietly in the club
until you so rashly drew attention to yourself. You
will have to fight them all, but because you are
backed against a wall at the top of the short flight of
stairs inside the club, you can fight them one at a
time, in this order:

SKILL STAMINA

NORTHERN ARCADIAN 8 12
First SOUTHERN

ARCADIAN 6 10
Second SOUTHERN

ARCADIAN 7 8
Drunk SOUTHERN

ARCADIAN 4 8

367

Do you have anything in your pack to help you in
this fight? If you think you do, remember this
number (366), to which you will have to return, but
meanwhile turn to 198. If you win, turn to 125.

367
The guard does not notice your approach, and you
get in a numbing blow on his sword-arm. You may
now fight him without reducing your SKILL for
being unarmed.

SKILL STAMINA
ARCADIAN GUARD 6 10

If you win, you may take his sword, but you will
have to leave the spaceport immediately. Turn to

336.

368-370

368
You keep on insisting that you know nothing. Sen-
tence is carried out in the manner which is tra-
ditional throughout the galaxy, at dawn the next
day. Your adventure ends here.

369
There is little that a phaser can do, unless you can
get into the bowels of the machines. Will you fire the
phaser at the casing (turn to 325)? If you have an
alternative, you may return to 381 and choose again

370
The secret policeman presses one of the buttons on
the desk, which summons the guards. ‘It’s all right,’
says the policeman. ‘He’s so moronic, he must be
harmless, Rough him upa little, but let him go: he’s

371

got important goods to transport to Radix tomor-
row.’ The guards take you away and amuse them-
selves with a few well-aimed punches and kicks,
much to the pleasure or dismay — depending on
their race — of the crowds who fill the spaceport. You
dare not react: that would give the whole game
away. Five minutes later, having reduced your
STAMINA by 2 points, you stumble out of the space-
port. Turn to 299

The smoothness of the floor and walls should have
alerted you to the danger. As you explore deep into
the cave to get as far away as possible from the frost
outside, a sudden roar fills your ears. It is too dark to
see, but your last impression is of a wall of freezing
water bearing down on you.

i a a  __

372-374

EV e2

The last thing you hear, before lapsing into uncon-
sciousness, is a frantic cry: ‘Watch out! Raid!’ The
crash of a door burst asunder and the following
hubbub make multicoloured flashes in your mind,
then all is black - and you will never emerge from
this blackness, During the raid on the club —a raid
which you caused — an Arcadian sword pierces your
neck.

373
Your pursuers were close enough behind you to see

where you went, You back into a doorway, where
you can fight them one ata time.

SKILL STAMINA
First ARCADIAN 7 8
Second ARCADIAN 6 6

If you win, you continue on foot towards your hotel.
Turn to 285,

374
Without further ado, you board your spaceship,

which is loaded up and ready to go. You instruct the

374

computer to switch to its pre-programmed route
from Tropos to Radix. There are no problems on
blast-off, and you relax for the first time for hours, as
Tropos dwindles on your rearview screen. But what
lies ahead of you on Radix? Both advantages and
disadvantages, as far as you can see. On the one
hand, Tropos is such a backward planet, both cul-
turally and technologically, that you are likely to feel
more at home on Radix; on the other hand, you
don’t know even the codename of the underground
leader on Radix, and itis now more crucial than ever
that you learn what he or she has to tell you.
Moreover, you know that Southerners are the most
dominant Arcadian species on Radix, attracted
there by the corruption and freedom. This too has
its good and its bad points: Southern Arcadians can
be more tolerant than the others, but they are more
difficult to communicate with.

During your journey to Radix, you may restore half
as Many STAMINA points as your current STAMINA
score, rounding odd numbers down, and remember-
ing that you cannot exceed your Initial score. Turn to

375-376

e

You pass, as in a dream, through countless corri-
dors and rooms. Time seems to have no mean-
ing, but eventually you confront a second beast, a
Dragon — the living Dragon Comet which guards the
richest mineral planet in the untverse, according to
old space legends. Again, you will have to fight it to

continue.
DRAGON COMET SKILL 8 STAMINA 12

If you win, turn to 159.

376

Promptly at eleven o’clock, you knock on Professor
Zacharias’s door—but there is no reply. You wait for
several minutes, but he doesn’t turn up. A passing
student tells you why: he has been arrested, as the
leader of the underground on Radix! The arrest took
place about half an hour ago, He knew you were
coming: maybe he had time to leave you a clue, in
case you were the agent from Earth that he was
expecting. You go into the room to see. It is very
untidy; there are manuscripts and history books
everywhere — academics still use books, since it is
easier to find particular passages for reference on a
page than ona screen. You concentrate on the desk.
Look at the picture opposite to see whether you can
find a clue to the digits you need to know.

377

You are suddenly interrupted by the entry of several
North Arcadian guards. You too are arrested on the
spot, for being in a known dissident’s room. All
your equipment, including your sword, is stipped
from you, but they do not find your slim money-
belt. Turn to 43.

377
‘Yes, 1 know,’ it replies. ‘Nobody notices shadows

in shadowy places, so I hear things which are
denied to others. His name is Dorado, and he ts
working in the fields. I was by his side, though he
didn’t know it, when he sent you the password.’

‘Password? What password?’ you exclaim, ‘No
password got through to Earth. I detect the hand of
treachery!’

The alien being is fading fast, but, as it goes, it calls
out, ‘The bitter sea. . .‘ Gain 2 LUCK points for this

378-379

vital information. If you meet Dorado, he will ask
you for this password: you should then subtract 100
from the paragraph number where you are at the
time to find the next, correct paragraph. Remember
this. Now, turn to 114.

378
If your STAMINA is 12 or over, turn to 351; if it is
under 12, turn to 242.

379
You should have realized that his friendly tone

was not for your benefit, but for Musca’s. As you
already know, in his confused state, Musca sees
anyone who appears friendly as a friend. The other
Arcadian has now taken on this role, and you, by
denying him entry, have become Musca’s enemy.
He calls out to the other Arcadian, who blasts open
your door with a phaser. You wil] have plenty of
time in an Arcadian cell to wonder why he was
issued with a phaser and where you went wrong.

380
He tells you that it leads to the cellars where the
museum stores all the objects that it has no room to
display, but that it is closed to the public. Will you
try to persuade him to open it up for you (turn to
270), or will you leave for the university (turn to
146)?

381
There is nothing to prevent you entering the com-
puter room, but you know you will have to work
fast once you're in there. The first door is locked, but
can be broken easily; then there is the usual se-
quence of doors to protect the computers from
dust — then you are inside.

381

The gleaming, sterile surfaces of the several compo-
nent computers are set against the walls of quite a
small room. To think that so much power could be
contained in so little space! But there is no time for
such reflections ~ how will you go about sabotaging
the organic monstrosity? Three of the component
computers are larger than the others, and they are
placed in the centre of each wall (the fourth wail has
the door through which you have just came). So
they look like the ones you ought to concentrate on

You also notice that all the computers are covered
with a casing, which you assume to be some means
of regulating their surrounding temperature.
Which of the following will you use?

Wire-cutters Turn to 61
Photon grenade Turn to 312
Elmonite Turn to 395
Limpet mine Turn to6
Laser sword Turn to 332
infra-red scanner Tum to 149
Phaser Turn to 369

382

382

The hardware shop is tended by a cheerful South
Arcadian. You decide that you had better buy some-
thing, so that your request for directions will seem
less abrupt. You find the items in the shop really
old-fashioned - hardware shops on Earth now stock
only robots - and you cannot even imagine a use for
some of them. You may buy any of the following
(remembering, if necessary, the limit of six items in
your pack): a benelo-phosphate strobe, which pro-
duces an extremely bright wide beam in short bursts
(7o credits); and hand-klaxon (50 credits); a coil of
nylon rope (50 credits); a can of engine ail (20
credits}; or an automated personal massage and
manicure robot (650 credits). As you hand over your
money, the Arcadian’s antennae wave and flash,
presumably in pleasure. You put your purchases in
your anti-grav pack and ask her the way to the
Fission Chips.

Her reply is mysterious: ‘Each is a source of growth
and life; together their consciousness pervades the
galaxy. The club that you seek is never eclipsed
on its southern side.” This is typical of Southern
Arcadian communication, though she’s probably
trying to make it easy for you. If you know what
she’s talking about, you will be able to guess what
paragraph to turn to. Otherwise, turn to 44.

383

383
The cliff should not be difficult to climb: the freezing
cold has broken it up into larger and smaller ledges,
which will afford handholds and stepping-places.
After about twenty minutes you can hear the bird
near by, and you circle round, so that you can
approach it from above.

The nest is on a faisly wide ledge. The bird itself is a
Halmurian Rockbuzzard, whose fluffy appearance
belies its dangerous nature. It looks like a large ball
of soft feathers: as protection against the cold, it has
developed the habit of burying its head and neck
within its copious body feathers, until it looks like
nothing so much as a large, cuddly hedgehog, with
a tail and folded wings.

If you jump on to the ledge, you will have to fight it,
Is this what you choose to do (turn to 298), or does
its size and the precariousness of your situation
make you change your mind, and return to the path
(turn to 147)?

384-386

334
You can hear the eerie sound of water dripping
somewhere ahead of you in the dust-muffled
silence. There is a further passage branching off
east. Will you take it (turn to 123), or continue
straight on (turn to 154)?

385
“Yes, Ican get you a pass,’ he replies, ‘but it'll take a
day.” You don’t have that much time. Lose 1 LucK
point, and ask for a sword instead. Turn to 286.

386
You press the button and wait, heart in mouth.
To your relief, a secret doorway slides open and
reveals a short corridor leading straight out of the
spaceport. This must be used for getting rid of
bodies secretly. Turn to 299.

387-388

387

In his cabin, he cannot resist explaining his inven-
tion to you, while he unpacks the equipment.
‘It’s really very simple in theory,’ he says. ‘Any
Arcadian is linked to and is part of the central
computer, By running electrical impulses from an
Arcadian’s brain, through this device I have in-
vented, to a human’s brain, I can open up for the
human the glories of working for the computer, and
wipe out his or her human will for ever. It’s even
painless, for both the Arcadian transformer and the
human subject.’ You realize that he is talking about
some kind of ultra-sophisticated brainwashing de-
vice. For a moment, fear seizes you. Will you try to
smash the machine, for your own sake and that of
others (turn to 265), or will you allow the experi-
ment to continue (turn to 116)?

388
You toss the ancient grenade towards the mechan-
ical monster. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to
63; if you are Unlucky, turn to 352.

389-391

389
You trip and fall into a burning bush. Screaming
with pain, your clothes on fire, you dash through
the rest of the perimeter of fire and fall to the
ground, rolling over and over until the flames are
out. You have suffered 4 sTAMINa points of injury.
The alien craft was unable to track you through the
smoke, and is now some way off. Will you sprint for
the building (turn to 338) or the rocks (turn to 259}?

39°

You go back to the hostel and spend a restless night:
the fleas and the snores of your dormitory com-
panions prevent you from sleeping. In the morning
you return to the Fission Chips, only to find a
smoking ruin where the Adolpho once stood in all
its mock Venusian glory, A passer-by tells you that
there was a heavy Arcadian raid on the premises last
night. You have failed to make contact with Bellat-
rix. Your mission has failed: return to Earth to start
again.

391
The next danger you meet comes from a creature

which can only be described as a conscious black
hole: its method of attack is to attach itself to you like
a leech and try to extract your energy.

VAMPIRE LEECH SKITL § STAMINA 10

If you win, turn to 269

392

He unlocks the door and you both go down some
Stairs into the dusty cellars, which are full of objects
in packing-cases, show-cases, or just loose. You
look around the first cellar for a while, and then
stifle an excited cry. There, in a show-case marked
‘Purpose Unknown - Possibly Religious Artefacts’,
is something which you with your training in
weaponry recognize as a primitive baryon grenade—
and it looks undamaged! You must have it, even
though it means fighting the friendly watchman.
Turn to 215.

393
You decide to try these wire-cutters, which, like all

such implements nowadays, simply dissolve the
wire alt contact. But as soon as you touch the peri-
meter fence with the tool, an alarm siren goes off
deafeningly, You may have time to get through
before a patrol comes to investigate. Roll two dice. If
the number rolled is less than your current SKILL
score, turn to 279; if the number is greater than or
equal to your current SKILL score, turn to 199.

394

394
You turn south out of the hostel. As you are walking

along, you realize that you will have to ask someone
the way to the Fission Chips, and it might as well be
this man, who has introduced himself as Grus. ‘I’m
hungry,’ you say, ‘and a friend back on Earth said
that a club called the Fission Chips was worth
visiting. Can you tell me where itis, by any chance?’

Grus looks at you curiously. “Yes, I can get you
there,’ he replies. ‘It’s in the basement of the old
Adolpho videorama. But your friend must have
strange tastes if he recommended the food there— or
the company. Never mind, I'll take you there.’

You notice that the city is laid out very regularly ona
square grid pattern. The hostel is at the north end of
North 23 — East 5 Street, and the next block south
starts at the top of North 22 — East 5 Street. The
buildings are all very alike, except for the Temple of
the Five Suns, which towers above the rest of the
city and is a famous landmark; it is the centre of the
395

Imperial religion on Tropos — the five suns being the
suns of the planets in the Empire.

You are led five biocks south and four east. Even-
tually, Grus takes you down a side-street. ‘Wait
here,’ he says. ‘l have to see someone someone
who can get us into the Fission Chips, Not long
now.” He knocks on a door. Will you insist on
entering the house with him (turn to 229), or will
you stay outin the side-street (turn to 56)?

395
Elmonite is a sensitive and powertul explosive,
which is automatically detonated by contact with
the air. You know that from the time you break the
seal of the cylinder, you have three minutes before
the explosion. Will you break the elmonite into
three pieces, one for each main computer (turn to
222), or will you consider that if you break it up it

396-397

may not do enough damage, and pack it all against a
single computer? If so, will it be the computer
against the wall opposite the door (turn to 139), the
computer to the right (turn to 52), or the left-hand
one (turn to 203)? If you have an alternative, you
may prefer to return to 381 and choose agra.

396
He doesn’t classify you as a rebel, but he confiscates
one of the items (you choose which to cross off vour
Equipment List), Then he lets you pass through

to 374.

397
You open the door, shivering with anticipation — or
iS it trepidation? It leads to a dark, gloomy corridor.
The guard allows you one last despairing glance

398

back into the well-lit room, before shoving you
through the entrance and slamming the door.

Darkness descends, but it is not total. Somewhere
far ahead there is a source of light. You clutch at
straws: surely this is a hopeful sign? Surely they
wouldn’t bother with light if this was the passage of
doom? Then a little voice inside you interrupts your
wishful thinking: oh, yes, they would — they need to
see to clear the bodies away . . .

Time passes, so far, so good. You're still alive. But
then you've only moved a few centimetres from the
door! Perhaps you should just stay here, where at
least you haven't been killed yet. Is that what you
choose to do (turn to 4), or will you continue down
the corridor (turn to 71)?

398
Quite right: your escort must be an Arcadian, and
you do not want to draw attention to yourself. You
pass the journey pleasantly enough in eating, sleep-
ing, exercising and playing chess with the com-

399

puter, When you land on Tropos, you find that you
are due to take off again tomorrow for Radix. The
Arcadian guards at Customs search your anti-grav
pack but find no more than your clothes, because
they don’t search your body: they rely on the metal-
detectors to do their job, but your laser sword has
been treated with a chemical which prevents it
activating the detectors, and your money-belt con-
tains no metal. Once you have registered, as all
non-Tropian humans must on arrival, you leave the
spaceport. Turn to 299.

399

You follow him down countless passageways, up
and down flights of stairs, and finally across roof-
tops, until you come to a secluded air-conditioning
control room on top of the western part of the
spaceport buildings. This is all very mysteriaus.
Will you allow your companion to knock on the
door (turn to 145), or will you put an end to this risky
business (turn to 334)? -

400

400

You quickly leave the building in case the explosion
should harm you as well. But right outside is a
platoon of Northern Arcadians, spiked tails rest-
lessly swinging from side to side. Just as they move
in for the kill, however, the crump of a muffled
explosion sounds from the building behind you.
Immediately, the Arcadians’ faces go vacant; they
look around, heads lolling, You've done it! The Arca-
dian Empire is finished. The computer queen of the
colony is destroyed, and with it went the will of its
workers

a ee ee ee ee
ON AW Bw N A

=)
i

DO SN AWW y a

The Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks in Puffin

THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP MOUNTAIN
THE CITADEL OF CHAOS

THE FOREST OF DOOM
STARSHIP TRAVELLER

CITY OF THIEVES

DEATHTRAP DUNGEON
ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING
SCORPION SWAMP

CAVERNS OF THE SNOW WITCH
HOUSE OF HELL

TALISMAN OF DEATH

SPACE ASSASSIN

FREEWAY FIGIITER

. TEMPLE OF TERROR

- THE RINGS OF KETIIER

- SEAS OF BLOOD

- APPOINTMENT WITH F.E.A.R,

REBEL PLANET
DEMONS OF THE DEEP (in preparation)

Steve Jackson's

SORCERY!
1: THE SHAMUTANTI HILLS

Your search for the legendary Crown of Kings takes you to
the Shamutanti Hills. Alive with evil creatures, lawless
wanderers and bloodthirsty monsters, the land is nddled
with tricks and traps waiting for the unwary traveller. Will
you be able te cross the hills safely and proceed to the
second part of the adventure - or will you perish in the
attempt?

2: KHARE — CITYPORT OF TRAPS

Asa warrior relying on force of arms, or a wizard trained in
magic, you must brave the terror of a city built to trap the
unwary. You will need all your wits about you to survive
the unimaginable horrors ahead and to make sense of the
clues which may lead to your success — or to your doom!

3: THE SEVEN SERPENTS

Seven deadly and magical serpents speed ahead of you ta
warn the evil Archmage of your coming. Will you be able ta
catch them before they get there?

4: THE CROWN OF KINGS

At the end of your long trek, you face the unknown terrors
of the Mampang Fortress. Hidden inside the keep is the
Crown of Kings — the ultimate goal of the Sorcery! epic. Bul
beware! For if you have not defeated the Seven Serpents,
your arrival has been anticipated . . .

Complete with all the magical spells you will
need, each book can be played cither on its own,
or as part of the whole epic

————EEE- ~—Es$sh— ee ........m

FIGHTING FANTASY
The introductory Role-playing game
Steve Jackson

The world of Fighting Fantasy, peopled by Orcs, dragons,
zombies and vampires, has captured the imagination of
millions of readers world-wide, Thrilling adventures of
sword and sorcery come to life in the Fighting Fantasy
Gamebooks, where the reader is the hero, dicing with
death and demons in search of villains, treasure or free-
dom

Now YOU can create your own Fighting Fantasy adven-
tures and send your friends off on dangerous missions! In
this clearly written handbook, there are hints on devising
combats, monsters to use, tricks and tactics, as well as two
mini-adventures complete with GamesMaster’s notes for
you to start with. Literally countless adventures await you!

WHAT IS DUNGEONS AND DRAGONS?
John Butterfield, Philip Parker, David Honigmann

A fascinating guide to the greatest of all role-playing
games: it includes detailed background notes, hints on
play and dungeon design, strategy and tactics, and will
prove invaluable for players and beginners alike.

Fantasy Questbooks — 32 pages, full colour

THE PATH OF PERIL
David Fickling and Perry Hinton
ILLUSTRATED BY RACHEL BIRKETT

The famous expiorer, Edmund Mallory, has been foully
murdered, and the legendary Bloodstone, which he
acquired under mysterious circumstances on his last
travels, is missing. All that remains are the scattered frag-
ments of the explorer’s diary, his personal notebook and
most of the contents of his ransacked study. An almost
unsolvable mystery. Yet it seems that the explorer himself
expected to meet a violent end and prepared the way for
YOU to track down his murderer and recover the Bload-
stone. Unfortunately the clues he laid have been scattered
in the turmoil of his terrible death, All the information you
need is here, ingeniously hidden in both text and pictures,
and each strand of the mystery unravels to reveal the next.
Are YOU sharp enough to crack it?

STARLIGHT ZERO
David Fickling and Perry Hinton
ILLUSTRATED BY PETER ANDREW JONES

One by one the Free Planets have fallen to the relentless
advance of the Datk Ships unl only Caldoran and Palonar
remain. Then a last, despairing message comes from Palo-
nar and Caldoran is on its own. It seems that the invaders,
armed with the power af the invincible Black Light, will
soon conquer the last outpost of resistance. The only hope
for the survival! of Caldoran is one last desperate mission by
a small group of star fighters to strike at the source of the
Black Light And YOU are part of the mission

