FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS

Over 10 million copies sold worldwide!

—_ .
+

you strikes, y pu

aa lel ju ‘LIVINGSTONE |

Ta Bi jour crew are abies
| ideter IT to go down
ee is swift and deadly,
(OW are the only survivor. But
sa terrible fate in store for
ill take y ou down beneath
den hte demons of the
hy — Black Pearls,

pee”
pxS~ ee

ISBH 0-14-D51921-2

Mi 90000

9 "780140°31921?

PUFFIN BOOKS
DEMONS OF THE DEEP

hust five days out of Port Blacksand, your merchant ship,
Sunfish, encounters the dread porate, Captain Moodaxe—terror
ot the seas. As the pirate ship strikes, you know that you are

doomed. Captain Bloodaxe gives no metcy, no quarter, But

you and your crew are hardy sailors, courageous too, and are
determined ty yo dinsn fighting:

The skirmish is swift and deadly. When itis over, YOU are the
only surviver from your ship. But Captain Bloodaxe has a
terrible fate in store for you — one which will take you into the
coral caverns beneath the waves and into the dens of the

demons of the deep, in search of the mysterious Black Pearls,

which are your only hope for survival!

Two dice, 2 pencil and an eraser are all you need to embark on
this thrilling undersea fantasy adventure, which is complete

with its elaborate combat system and a score sheet to record :

your gains and losses.
certain. [t's ap to YOU to decide which route to follow, which
dangers to tisk and which adversaries to fight!
Fighting Fantasy Gamebuoks

. “The Warock of Firetop Mountain
. The Citadel of Chans

The Forest at Down
Starship Traveller

City ut Thieves

Deathtrap Dungeon

. Islan of the lavard King
Sourpoos Serene

. Caverns of the Snuw Willen
su. House of Hell

ri. Talisman ot Death

12, Space Assos

15. Freeway Fighter

14. Temple ot Lerror

15, the Rengs of Kether

16. Seas uf Hlons

F. Apposntmer:. vith FEAR.
15. Rebel Manct

19. Decuwns of the Deep

an. Sword at the Sema

21. “Liat of Champion:

=>. Robot Commanda

23. Masks of Mayhem

za, Creature of Have

25. Beneath Nightmare Castle
26. Crypt of the Sorcerer

zp Slar Strider

28. Ptuutiuins of Fear

29. Midnight Kugue

40, Chasm of Malice

32. Betthevlade Wamer

az. Slaves ot the Anvss

43, Sky Lord

STEVE JACKSON'S SORCERY!
The Sramutann Tills
Khare - Citypor! of Trar
the Seven Serperts

The Crowr. of Kors

CPN Tbe WP

vw NH
| beet

£

Fighting Fanlies: The Rolevieeing Genw
Tae Riddbire tt
Chitar the Tit Figinicsn, Fs ier cots

Tiler - he Tivrtra le

Steve Jackson and fan Livingstone
present

EMONS

EE

‘ses -
es aye, a
oe

2%, ¢° 3°

—

Steve Jackson

Sestruted by Gob Harvey

Puffin Books
ite ec

ron a ogee Oi iomicem Mic Fran

epi itr te

one ey eh
‘insane cope 2) Bob eS
gee

ota Monica, with love
CONTENTS

HOW TO FIGHT
‘THE CREATURES OF
THE DEEP

°

EQUIPMENT
36

HINTS ON PLAY
ADVENTURE SITEET
8

BACKGROUND.

DEMONS OF HE DEEP
HOW TO FIGHT
THE CREATURES OF THE DEEP

Before embarking on youradventure, you must first
determine your own strengths and weaknesses.
You have mm your possession a sword and a bay
containing provisions {food and drink} for the
adventures.

You must use dice to determine your initial sK11.t.
and STAMINA scores. On pages 15-19 there is an
Adventure Sheet which you may use to record the
details of an adventure. On it you will find boxes for
recording your skit.t.and STAMINA scores.

You are advised to either record your scores on the
Adventure Sheet in pencil, or make photocopies of
the page to use in future adventures.

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter this
totalin the skit box on the Adventure Sheet.

Roll both dice. Add 12 to the number rolled and
enter this total in the STAMINA box.

There is also a 1.uck box. Roll one die, add 6 to this
number and enter this total in the Luck box.
For reasons that will be explained below, sxx,
STAMINA and LUCK scores change constantly dur-
ing an adventure. You must keep an accurate record
of these scores and for this reason you are advised
either to write small in the boxes or to keep an eraser
handy. But never rub out your fnifial scores.
Although you may be awarded additional sxitt,
STAMINA and 1.UCK points, these totals may never
exceed your iuifial scores, except on very rare occa-
sions, when you wil] be instructed on a particular
paye.

Your SKILL score reflects your swordsmanship and
peneral fighting expertise; the higher the better.
Your STAMINA score reflects your general con-
stitution, your will to survive, your determination
and overall fitness; the higher your STAMINA Score,
the longer you will be able to survive. Your tuck
score indicates how naturally hicky a person you
ure. Luck —and magic —are facts of life in the fantasy
world you are about to explore.

Battles

You will often come across pages in the book which
instruct you to fight a creature of some sort. An
option to flee may be given, but if not — or if you
choose to attack the creature anyway — you mus!
resolye the battle as described below.

First record the creature’s SKILL and STAMINA
scores in the first vacant Monster Encounter Box on
your Adventure Skeet. The scores for cach creature

190

are given in the hook each time you have an en
counter,
The sequence af combat is then:

1- Roll both dice once for the creature. Add its skIt.t.
score. This total is the creature's Attack Strength.

2. Roll both dice once for yourself. Add the number
rolled te your current skirt score. This tolal is
your Attack Strength.

3. Ib your Attack Strensth is higher than that of the
creature, you have wounded it. Proceed to step
4. lt the creature's Attack Strength is higher than
yours, it has wounded you. Proceed t) step 5. If
both Attack Strength totals are the same, you
have avoided each other's blows — start the next
Attack Round from step 1 above.

s. You have wounded the creature, sa subtract 2
points from if STAMINA score, You may use
your LUcK here to do additional damage (see
over}.

5- the creature has wounded you, so subtract 2
points from your owunsTramina score. Again you
May use LUCK at this stage (ste over).

6. Make the appropnate adjustments Lo dither the

creature's Or Your OWN STAMINA ScaTes (and

your LUCK score if you used LUCK — see over).

Begin the next Attack Round by retuming to

your current SKILt score and repealing steps 1-6.

[his sequence continues until thes ramina score

of either vou or the creature you are fighting has

been reduced to zero (death).

|

11
Escaping

On some pages you may be given the option of
running away from a battle should things be going
badly for you. However, if you do nm away, the
creature automatically gets in one wound on you
(subtract 2 STAMINA points) as you flee. Such is the
price of cowardice. Note that you may use LUCK On
this waund.in the normal way (see below). You may
only Escape if that option is specifically given to you
on the page.

Fighting More Than One Creature

If you come across more than one creature in a
particular encounter, the instructions on that page
will tell you how to handle the battle. Sometimes
you will treat them asa single monster; sometimes
you will fight each one in turn.

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either m
battics or when you come across situations inwhich
you could either be lucky or unlucky (details of
these are given on the pages themselves), you may
call on your luck to make the outcome more favour-
able. But beware! Using luck is a risky business and
if you are wulucky, the results could be disastrous.

‘The procedure for using your luck is as follows: roll
twa dice. If the number rolled is equal to or less than
your current LUCK score, you have been Lucky and

12

the result will go in your favour. If the number
rolled is higher than your current Luck score, you
have been Unlucky and you will be penalized,

This procedure is known as Testing your Luck. Each
time vou Tesf your Luck, you must subtract one paint
from your current LUCK score. Thus you will soon
realize that the more you rely on your luck, the more
risky this will become.

Lising Luck m Battles

On certain pages of the book you will be told to Test
your Luck and will be told the consequences of your
being lucky or unlucky. However, in battles, you
always have the option of using your luck either to
inflict a more serious wound on a creature you have
just wounded, orto minimize the effects ofa wound
the creature has just inflicted on you.

if you have just wounded the creature, you may Jes!
your Luck as described above. lf you are Lucky, you
have inflicted a severe wound and may subtract an
extra 2 points from the creature's STAMINA score.

However, if you are Unlucky, the wound was a
mere grave and you must restore 1 point to the
creature's STAMINA (i.e. instead of scoring the
normal 2 points of damage, you have now scored
only 1)-

If the creature has just wounded you, you may Test
your Luck to try to minimize the wound. If you are
Lucky, you have managed to avoid the fill damage
of the blow. Restore 1 point of STAMINA [i.c. instead

13
of doing 2 points of damage il has done only 2). lf
you are Unlucky, you have taken a more senous
blow, Subtract 1 extra STAMINA point.

Remember that you must subtract point from your
own 1.ucK score each time you fest yowr Luck.

Restoring Skill, Stamina and Luck
Shai

Your SKILE score will not change much dunng your
adventure. Occasionally, 2 page may give instruc-
tions lo increase or decrease your SKILL score. A
Mayic weapon may increase your skiLL, Dut re-
member that only one weapon can be used ata Hime!
You cannot claim 2 skit. bonuses for carrying two
magic swords. Your SKILL score can never exceed its
Inttiel value unless specifically instructed.

Stamina and Provisions
Your STAMINA score will change a lot during vour
advenhure as you fight monsters and undertake
arduous tasks. As you near your goal, vour
Si AMINA level ma¥ be dangerously low and battles
may be particularly risky, so be careful!

Your bay contains enough Provisions for ten meals.
You may rest and cat at any time except when
ungare din a battle. Eating a meal restores 4 STAM-
INA points. When you cata incal , add 4 points to
vUUT STAMINA Score and deduct 1 seat from your
Provisions. A stparatc ‘Provisions Remaining’ box
is provided on the Adpenture Shee! for recording

14

details of Provisions. Remember that you have a
long way to gu, so use your Provisions wisely!

Remember also that your STAMINA score May never
exceed its Initial value unless specifically instructed
on a page. Drinking a Healing Potion will restore
your STAMINA Eo its Initial level at any time.

Luck

Additions to your LUCK svore are awarded through
the adventure when you have been particularly
lucky. Details are given on the pages of the baok.
Remember that, as with sxri1. and STAMINA, your
LUCK score may never exceed its Initial value unless
specifically instructed on a page, Drinking a Potion
of Fortune will restore your LUCK Lo its Inilia/ level at
any ime, and increase your Jilal 1.ucK by 1 point.
EQUIPMENT

You will start your adventure with a bare minimum
of equipment, but you may find or buy other items
during your travels. You are armed with a sword
and are dressed in leather armour. You havea bag to
hold your Provisions and any treasures you may
Cume actoss,

16

HINTS ON PLAY

There is one true way through this adventure and it
will take you sev eral attempts to find it. Make notes
and draw a map as you explore — this map will be
invaluable in future adventures and enable you to
progress rapidly through t unexplored sections.

Not all areas contain treasure; many merely contain
traps and creatures which you willno doubt fall foul
of. There are many ‘wild-goose chase’ routes, and
while you may indeed progress through to your
ultimate destination, it is by no means certain that
you will find what you are searching for, Likewise,
there are several ways in which you may escape
with vour life and even defeat your foes — but there
is only one way to win the pirate freasure for
yourself.

it will be realized that entries make no sense if read
in numerical order. [t is essential that you read only
the entries you are instructed to read.

The one true way involves a minimum of risk and
any plarer, no matter how weak on /mtiail dice rolls,
should be able to get through fairly easily.

May the luck of the gods go with you on the adven-
ture ahead!
ADUENCURE SHEEC

REMAINING

SKILL | STAMINA |} LUCK |
Inatinal ( Inifial Initial
Shill = 41 Stamina = 23> \4q Luck -if
| |
'
] ITEMS OF GOLD |
FQUIPMENT
CARRIED )
JEWELS
POTIONS
PROVISIONS

f
Se
¢

MONSTER ENCOUNTER BOXES

Skill = Shall = Skill =
Stamina = Stamina = Santina =
Siu] = | Skill = Skill =
Stomtina = Stamina = Stamina =
Sial] = Stal! = Skiii =
Stamina © Stantma = Stantina =
Sali = Sif = Ski =
Stamina = Stamina = Stamina =

“wal

BACKGROUND

You are a doughty sailor, a rover of the seven seas.

You have many years’ experience as a mariner, on
great ships and small, on sailing-boats and huge
warships. Neither howling storm nar dead calm
disturbs vou, Your trusty cutlass has slain many
brigands and strange creatures of the deep. In port,
you keep your listeners enthralled with your sea

stones. Some are true, some aren’t . . - but nobody
know’s the difference except vou.

You are five days out of Port Blacksand, first mate
on the good ship Sunfish, when the pirate ship
strikes. Swooping in un black sails hke the wings of
some giant, predatory sea-bird, it rams ils prow
across your decks. Beneath a leering, sharp-toothed
figurehead is her name — the Iroi!, Dozens of ragged
pirates swarm across the rails and attack.

The crew of the Sunfst fights bravely, buta peaceful
merchant ship is no match for a pirate vessel. One
by one you see your comrades fall. At last, only you
are left. With vour back te the mainmast, you lay
about you with your trusty sabre, wounding one
pirate after another. The pirates back away from you
in fear, You drop your guard for a second — but too
soon! From behind you, a black-bearded mffan
swings a huge belaying-pin. You see stars. . . then
nothing.

20

When you awake, you are surprised to find yourself
still alive. The Sunjish, a battered wreck, is burning
neat by. Your comrades’ bodies are gone — con-
signed, no doubt, to the deeps. You are on the deck
of the Troll. Its sails snap in the breeze as the pirates
head for their island lair.

You try to stand . - - and find you are tied to the
mast. A coarse laugh comes from behind you, ‘So
.. .our heroisawake! The speaker steps into view,
and you see your captor — a bald, burly man in a
once-elegant “purple coat; he sweeps a mocking
bow. ‘Captain Bloodaxe, af your service! 4 pleasure
to meet such a valiant fighter! 1 would offer you a
place in my cresy, but somehow you don’t seem
quite our type. Whatever shall we do with you?’

Several of the jeering pirates besin to offer surges-
tions: ‘Keelhaul him! Run him up the mainmast and
use him for a flag! Troll for sharks, with him as the
bait!’

But Captain Bloodaxe waves them to silence: “No,
my hearties! How savage of you! You should be
ashamed of yourselves! This one stood alone and
defied us, slaying many of our comrades, Such a
worthy fighter must be rewarded fittingly and will
leave the ship unharmed!”

The pirates grumble, but the captain shouts them
down. ‘First, we must return your good sword to

you.” He picks it up from the deck and replaces it in
the scabbard at your belt.

21
‘Second, we must give you Provisions for the trip.”
He snaps his fingers, and a pirate brings a bag of
black bread and salt becf—enough Provisions for ten
meals, He ties the heayy bag to your belt.

‘Third, we must release these cruel bonds.’ He
draws his dirkand slashes the ropes that hold you to
the mast. He yanks you to your feet, your hands still
tied behind you. “You'll forgive me if I don’t untie
your hands just vet, but you're a very dangerous
foc!’ Behind him, the pirates snicker.

‘And finally, we must give you your freedom!” He
escorts you to the stern of the ship, where the
lifeboats are tied. The pirate crew follows, gnuam-
bling. ‘Unfortunately,’ he adds, ‘we can't spare a
boat. So you'll just have to swim home!” With a
powerful shove, he sends vou over the railing. You
hit the water with a tremendous splash. As Captain
Bloodlaxe’s gifts drag you underwater, you hear the
pirate crew laughing at the joke - . -

22

Now Turn OVER
7

You sink slowly beneath the surlace, holding your
breath. Desperately, you try ta free your hands, but
the bonds are tight. Deeper and deeper vou sink.
Curious fish circle around vou, and the world slaw-
ly turns sea-green. The ocean is shallow here, and
you see that you are descending towards fall spires
of coral. No, not coral, but a sunken city! You are
drifting into the middle of a stately courtyard, now
overgrown with weeds and coral. As your [cet
touch the bottom, you see lines of light blaze all
around vou. You gasp — losing most of your breath
in a great bubble. The whole courtyard is a giant
Magical pentagram, and you are standing in its
centre!

You have no time to appreciate the magic, however:
you must swim back to the surface or drown! Butthe
weight at your belt holds you down, and vou cannot
untie your hands. At last your strength fails, and
you inhale the cold water. Bul you remain un-
harmed!

You realize that the magic of the pentagram has
somehow protected you from drowning. You kick
your way to a sharp coral spire and mb the rope

2

against it until your hands are tree. A strange leeling
at your throat prompts you to look at yonar reflection
in your shining sword. The spell has given you gills’
You can breathe the water just hke a Merman-

You find that your leather bag of ten Provisions is
intact. Exidently the spell is also keeping the food
from being ruined by the seawater.

lf you pull off your heavy beli and swim back to the
surface, turn to 63. If you explore the sunken court-
yard instead, turn to 173.

‘The underwater gardens seem to be laid out just like
a formal garden on land. You swim through the
heavy iron gale, noting that it is not al all rusty.
Inside the gate, vou see many beaytful speamens
of seaweed, coraland water plants. Instead of birds,
the ‘trees’ are filled with coloured fish. Itis eene, but
peaceful. A few yards from the gate, the path splits
in two. If you ga ta the left, tum to 359. If you go ta
the right, turn to 174.

3-4

3
You swim strongly up and away from the stadium,

through the crack in the dome and over the city once
more. Not faraway, you see the patch of clean sand
that you observed earlier. You can now see that a
small object of some kind is in the middle of the
sand. Turn to 196.

4

The king’s eyes open even wider. ‘Yes, since you
ask, there is a great service you can do for our
kingdom. In an upper room of our palace lies a fair
princess, doomed to sleep until she be kissed by a
hero. None of our nobles has been able to lift the
spell. Will you try?’ If you agree to try, turn to 399, If
you decline the honour, turn to 284.

5-6

5

Her evil appearance chills your blood, bul perhaps
she can he helpful to you. Keeping your hand well
away from your sword, you speak to her as cour-
teously as you can, ‘Owise woman, pray forgive my
intrusion, but lam in need of help. | have brought
you a valuable gift, and you would honour me by
accepting it.” She thrusts her hand out greedily.
What will you offer her:

A Black Pearl? Tum to 127
A Toolfish? Turn to 229
A magic sword? Turn to §1

if you have none of these, you must attack. Turn to
254.

6
You swim down into the chasm. The light fails
Tapidly as you swim lower. If you possess 2
Glowtish, turn to 324. lf you do not, turn to 180.

airy e-5e>
aA APY Petree te
-ePltgat, os arse, 8-,
Aye wee, = 5 *
See ’ ~

7
You doubt that you could flee from the creature, and

you are certainly not anxious to light it, Your only
hope is to talk to it. What will vou appeal to in your

Turn to 334
Tum to 178
Turn to 289

its good will?
its sreed?
its hatred of pirates?

8
You hear a rustling behind vou. You kick off from
the bottom and spin around, your sword al the
ready. Then, from all sides at once, the small Crabs
stiack. If vou stand and fight them, tum to 169. If
1 Flee, furri to 148.
9-10

The Sea-horse swims madly in circles, bucking and
tossing, but you keep your seat. Eventually it
quictens, but still rolls its eves. You pat its nose
reassuringly- You find that you can guide it with
your knees, and that it swims rch faster than you
da, You direct it towards the cathedral in the dis-
tance. When you reach your goal, you dismount,
and the Sea-horse swims away. Restore 2 Luck
points. Turn to 269-

10

You swim away as fast as you can, leaving the
sinister skull behind you. When you risk a look over
your shoulder, you see that the shimmering has
vanished and everything is as it was before. You
swim towards the large stone building. Turn to 159.

11-i2

it

You swim up until your head ts level with the
statue's, and you lift the crown from its stony braw-
As vou do so, its eyes tum towards you and its lips
move. It speaks, in a voice so deep you can feel
your bones yibrate: Who dares take the Crown of
Auantis from its resting-place? Will you fight far
your prize or flee like a coward?’ What will you do:
Fight the Statue?
Flee like a coward?
Return the crown?

‘Turn to 232
Turn tu 39
‘Turn to 217

12

The trapdoor slams shut behind you as you whirl in
the current. You catch hold of something to steady
yourself. You are in pitch-blackness. If you possess
2 Glowfish, turn to 258. LU not, turn to 113.
13-14

43
You fight the four Batfish. They dart around,

swooping in to bite, so you can battle them one at a
time:

Fach BATFISH SKILL 6 STAMINA 4

You cannot Escape. If you kill them all, turn to 390,

You reach into your bag and find the bottle with the
envelope. He isamazed, but immediately opens the
bottle and reads the message. Itis obviously import-
ant; he hems and haws, puts itin a pocket of his robe
and thanks you gruffly. For the first time, he seems
to nolice your bedrageled condition. He snaps his
iingers and restores your STAMINA and LUCK to
their Inifial values! Turn to 376.

aa@
15-16

15
The Water Elemental begs your pardon for threaten-
ing you. ‘You did me no wrong,’ it says. “But I have
been held prisoner here these many years, and did
unjustly loose my wrath upon you. My thanks for
staying your hand when you might have slain me’
Restore 2 LUCK points for showing mercy. The
current wafts you back through the coral tunnel so
cleverly that you are not scraped at all. Turn to 197.

16

You swim away from the building, over the court-
yard with the pentagram, and over the city of Atlan-
tis, You find that swimming is coming very natural-
ly to you now. Looking down over the aty, you see
no movement except for fish. The buildings appear
deseried. Some have fallen into mabble and most are
damaged, but the effect is still one of peace and
beauty. Three spots catch your eye, and you must
decide which one to visit:

A huge red-coloured dame with a

broken roof Turn to 223
An unnaturally clear, smouth

patch of sand Tur to 196
A square stone building, very well

preserved Turn to 349

ats@

17-19

17
You dive for the fapduor, but vou cannot get it
open in time. Lose 2 STAMINA points as the Bone
Demon's spear jabs you. Turn to 168 and fight.

18

You remove the Axefish from your bag and release
if Tt quickly grows into a large fish with a heavy
beak. [t swims towards the bars, attacks them and
batters them to pieces. It then swims away, its cluly
done. As vou hurry from the cave, you find an
ordinary sword, which you may take if you like. The
Current carrics you downstream along the abyss.
Tum to 148.

19
Before your hand reaches the chest, one of the pink
tentacles drifts down across your wrist, lt burns like
fire! Lose 1 STAMINA point, unless you possess a
ring that protects you from poison. What will you
de now:

Leave the house?

r : :

Drag the chest out sith your
sword?

Attack the Anemones?

turn to 381

‘Turn to 325
Turrt to 94
20-21

20
You enter a part of the garden that looks rather like
an orchard. Tall branches of coral support vine-like
plants bearing red and orange fruit. On the sandy
floor of the garden, small crabs and fish are picking
at a fallen fruit. If you sample a fruit, tum to 124- If
you go on without eating, turn to 234.

21

You pick up the tridentand heftit. lt vibrates m your
hand. Suddenly it shoots forward, dragping you
with it. You try to let go, but your fingers are stuck
as though with glue. You are carried along quickly,
and your surprised shout sends bubbles towards
the ceiling. As you pass through their quarters,
other Mermen and Mermaids stare at you im sur-
prise. Then you are outside the cavern, speeding
through the green svaters. You have lost track of
your location, but you know you are being carried
further and further from the surface. Test your Tack
If you are Lucky, turn to 59. If you are Unlucky, turn
to 110,

22-24

22

You pay Cyrano 1 Black Pearl, or 2 Gold Picces (your
choice). He offers you a drink from his flask, and
you accept. You instantly feel stronger; you regain 2
STAMINA points, or enough to raise your SrAMINA
to 10, whichever is higher. If you have no sword, he
tosses you one. Cyrano salutes you and drops into
an en garde position. ‘Defend yourselfl’ he says. ‘We
shall test your skill! You fight:

CYRANO

The fight is over when one of you has sustained
three wounds. If you hit Cyrano three times, turn to
176. if he hits you three times, turn to 46.

SKILL 11 STAMINA 10

23
As you swim away from the mausoleum, you spy 2
large, sleek Dolphin. It has already seen you and is
swimming in your direction. What will you do:

Flee? Turn to 259
Speak to it? Tum to 198
Attack it? Turn to 387

24
You enter the sunken ship. In the sudden dimness,
you can barely see where you-are going. You grab
the side of a door and try to feel your way. [est your
Luck Wf you are Lucky, turn to 348. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 123.
25-26

25

the Merman looks up in surprise as you darl
through his door. When he sees your drawn sword,
his eyes open even wider. He throws his Sawefish at
you and picks up a long knife —a Knilefish! — fam
his bench. The Sawfish grows larger and attacks
you. You must fight it, and then the Merman:

SKILL STAMINA
SAWFISH § 10
MERMAN mW 5

lf you Escape, tur to 150. If you kill the Sawfish and
the Merman, turn to 181.

26

Your sword cuts right through the shimmering
GHOST that has materialized in front of you. A
chill runs through your sword-arm. Lose 1 SKILL
point! Ifyou want to flee, turn toto. lf you choose to
stay and see what the Ghost wants, turn te 321.
27-29

a7,

Your head breaks the surface just as the last rays of
sun touch the water. Your gills vanish, and once
again you can breathe the sea air. You inhale deeply
and kick to stay afloat. Not far away you see a plank;
you sivim over and catch hold of it Oh, well - - -
you have been shipwrecked before and survived.
Perhaps some day you will have another chance to
revenge yourself on the pirates. For now, your
adventure is over,

28
The Sea Dragon is several mctres long, with gleam-
ing green and blue scales and dagger-tike talons of
ivory. It has no flaming breath, but its teeth and
claws are powerful enough.

SEA DRAGON

You cannot Escape. If you kill the Sea Dragon, tum
to 86.

SKILL 10 STAMINA 24

29

You float aimlessly through the darkness for a long
time, going with the current. Occasionally you are
cut by sharp coral fragments: lose 1 STAMINA point.
Eventually your eyes adjust somewhat, and you can
See a very dim glow ahead of you. You sivim to-
wards it, and see that it is sunlight! You squeeze
throush a narrow hole and emerge from a patch of
seaweed, You are just outside the mausoleum
where you found the trapdoor that got you into that
fix. Turn to 23.

30-32

9

You launch yourself at es Water Sprite. aiming a
mighty blow at its head. It giggles and changes
form. Suddenly, instead of a small clin creature,
you are facing a powertul whirlpool of water. Its
force threatens Lo sweep you in. Test your Luck. Lf
you are Lucky, tum to 252. If youare Unhicky, turn
to 153-

3I
Which one will you use:
The Axetish? ‘Turn to 214
The Sawfish? Turn to 342
The Borertish? ‘Turn to 179
32

You flee from the huge creatures. To your relief,
there is no pursuit. Which way will you go:

Towards a distant sunken
cathedral?

Towards a gleaming coral reef?

Towards a cliff with a dark cave at
its base?

‘Turn ta 269
Turn to 160

Turn to 62

33-35

You wiped out the whole nest of Bloodworms. Their
bodies dissolve into a reddish slime. ln their rocky
lair you find a clean-picked human skelcton and 4
mouldering pouch contaming 2 Gold Pieces. You
head on towards the cathedral, which now seems
very close. Turn to 269.

34
If you possess a Crab‘s claw, turn to 205. If not, turn

to 186-

33

As you approach, you see that these are not true
humans, but DEEP ONES. Their skin is green and
warty, their eyes huge and frog-ike. They have
gills, webbed lingers and huge claws. They wear
jewelled armour. They tell you that King Seamoss is
always interested in cunosities like yourself, and
conduct you inside. Within the great council-hall,
richly dressed courtiers meet you and conduct you
to the throne on which the fat fish-king sits. His eyes
bulze, and he wheezes when he speaks, but his
questions are keen. Whal will you do:

Tell your story and ask for heip? Turn t 208
Offer him the jade crown (if you

have iL)? Tum to 265
Ask if you can do him a service? Turn to 4

36-37

36
You answer the Dragon, and thank him in return.
‘Think nothing of it he says. ‘lam grateful to you,
for the gold, and for the snack.’ It lunges towards
you, jaws agape. You must fight the treacherous Sea
Dragon:

SEA DRAGON SKILL 10 STAMINA 24

You cannot Escape- If you kill the Sea Dragon, turn
to 277.

37

As you watch, aschool of beautiful Angelfish swims
into the hall. Asifin response, the next window you
look at depicts more Angelfish. You laugh at the
thought of ‘angel’ fish in a cathedral, and wonder
where the devilish is. Sure enough, the next win-
dow shows 2a huse DEVILFISH, so realistic il
appears to be swimming towards you. In fact, itis‘
What will vou da:

Attackit? Turn to 294
Ignore it? lurn to 80

Flee? Turn t) 117
39-40

39
The Statue curses you for a coward — then it pulls its
own head off and throws it at you! Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, the head misses you, but you still
lose 2 LUCK points because of the curse. If you are
Unlucky, you lose 2 points of tuck because of the
curse, 474 2 STAMINA points because of the heavy
stone head. Turn to 257, $

40

You make your way forward to the captain's cabin.
In a water-soaked desk you find the ship’s papers.
Most of them are totally ruined, but one set of charis
was walerproof. You study them, and your seafar-
ing experience quickly lets you identify your
approximate position. To your surprise, several is-
lands are shown near by, where you had not known
any existed. They are marked with names like Tar-
feather Island, Gorblimey Rocks, Fish Island, Ke+
trel Island. . - and a skull and crossbones. You find
nothing else in the cabin. The maps are too big to
carry, SO you Jeave them behind. You can visit the
treasure-hold, if you have not already done so (turn
tc 192), or you can leave (hurn to 222)-

1—43

41
You dive through the door and swim funously to
escape the slimy creature. Ahead of you is the blue
glow you saw earlier. Turn to 251.

42
You leave the Elemental’s chamber and squeeze
into the narrow coral passave. You are petting
rather tired of coral cuts by now, Sure enough, you
are injured agaim; lose another STAMINA puwint. If
you are still alive, turn to 197.

43
You follow the winding funnel as tt changes from
coral to rock. Ahead of you, a dim glow slowly
decomes dazzling as you swim closer. Rounding a
bend, rou confront a huge SEA DRAGON, curled
up on a sleaming pile of treasure. It fixes you with
an eve as big as a cannon-ball. What will vou do:

Fice? Turn t 232
Attack? Turn to 28
Tell it the story of your

adventure? Turn to 7

.
a *
44-46

+4
Tt waves its hand, wafting a shower of glittermg
motes towards you. You feel a tingling, and your
LUCK score is raised by 4 points. Before you can

thank the Water Sprite, it vanishes. You leave the ©

Teef. If you swim towards a larger coral formation in
the distance, turn to 87. If you go in the other
direction, towards an area of rocks and sunken
timbers, tum to 111,

45
Your ring will subtract 3 from each Attack Roll the

Anemones make, But if the Anemones hit you more
than once, the ring will vanish at the end of the
battle, its virtue exhausted. Turn to 314 and fight.

46

The fight ends; you may eat Provisions, if you need
to regain strength. Cyrano congratulates you on
your performance: ‘Of course you did not win!
Don't feel bad. You could not be expected to win
against the great Cyrano, but you did well.” Your
Skill. scare goes up by 2 points, and your Initml
SKILL score is alsv raised by 2. Cyrano stamps his
fat again, and you find yourself back in the open
ocean, in the middle of a patch of broken timbers.
Tum to 111,

47-49

47
Hidden beneath the hull of the pirate ship, you plan
your final attack. You know that your fate hinges on
the decisions you are about to make. What will you
do to defeat the pirates:

Attack them boldly with your

sword? Turn to 116
Use the Black Pearls you have

gathered? Turn to 358
Use a magic Toolfish (if you have

one)? Turn to 188

Summon the Sea Dragon (if you

know how)? Turn to 243

48
The bottle is made of blue glass and is heavily
sealed. Through the side you can see that it contains
an envelope, marked “Greylock”. Will vou:

Open the bottle and read the

letter? Turn lo £39
Discard the bottle? Turn ty» 397
Keep the bottle, unopened? Turn to 344

The tunnel continues downward for a while and
then divides ayain. The Glowtfish swiins away, but
Fou can see faint light from both tunnels ahead. IF
you so Ticht, firn to 385. If you go left, turn to 245,
50

50
The Dolphin swims curiously around you, squeak-
ing. It seems to be very excited absut something. It
tnes to push vou to the surface, but you resist, and it
Swims away, as though abashed-. Then it returns
and circles you, before darting away again. You look
in the direction it is swimming and see a huge
sand-coloured SHARK closing in rapidly! The
Dolphin arrows towards it. If you want to join the
Delphin in fighting the Shark, turn to 218. Hf you
retire from the scene and Jet them fight it out, turn

tO 72.

51

i

Your spell praduced ates Skeletons. area in
fear, most of the pirates dive overboard and flee. /
few show fight, but vou and the Skeletons are an
even match for them. The last Skeleton falls to the
sword of Captain Bloodaxe, who is the only pirate
left on the ship. You must fight him yoursel!:

CAPTAIN
BLOODAXE SKILL 11

You cannot Escape. lf you kill him, turn to 189.

STAMINA I2

32-53

52

Thanks to the warning from the Glow/fish, you have
time to dodge the monsler’s first rush. It turns about
and comes for you again, arms outstretched. [f you
want to attack it, turn to 383. If you try to out-swim
it, turn to 129-

53

Below vou and to one side are more buildings:
evidently the city of Atlantis was very extensive! In
front of you is the face of the cliff from which you
emerged, pock-marked with tiny caverns and fs
tooned with corals, sea anemones and plants. You
can:

Examine the cliffface more closely Tum to 320

Swim up towards the top of the

clitt Tum to 260
Swim out over the city Turn to 64
54

54
You smash the last of the Bone Demon's skeletal

arms, and its one remaining weapon falls to the
floor. With a powerful backhand blow, you crush its
skull. The light in its eyes dims as it sinks to the
floor. You reach for its crown, but il tums to muckin
your hands, leaving only the 2 Black Pearls. You
pocket them and search the room. The spear is too
long ta carry, and the axe is much too heavy, but
the sword looks as though it might be useful.
Furthermore, it is shimmermg with a red glow —
obviously magical. Hf you take the sword. turn to
330. If you leave it alone, burn ta 255,

ea@

55-56

35

You release the Borerfish and it grows into a stout
creature with a corkscrew nose. It swims up to the
frolf’s hulland begins to drill one hole after another.
No immediate effect is visible, but within ten min-
utes the ship can be seen to be settling! From a
distance you watch as the pirate vessel founders
and sinks. A few pirates thrash their way ta the
shore, but most go down with their ship. elie
is falling as you swim down to the sunken Troll t
laok it over. IF you untie une of the ship’s boats tnd
float up with it to make your way home, tum to 238.
If you head for the treasure-hold, turn to 369.

The loathsome Sea Hag lies dead at your feet.
Around her neck is a necklace, which you may take
if you like. Searching the room, you find 3 Black
Pearls. Atthe back of the room is a deep fissure, and
on the other side of the fissure vou can see 4 huyze
brass bound chest. Hf vou examine the chest, tucn
to 388. If you leave. turn to 162.
57-55

57
The Mermanis surprised to ste a land-dweller in his
svorkshop, but he is friendly. When he hears your
story, he is sympathetic. Td like to help youifl can,’
he says. ‘Tf you have anything to pay, I will sell you
some of my spare Toolfish. They are magical, and
may be of use.’ Whai will you do:

Offer gold? Tum ta 132
Offer a Black Pearl? Turn lo 373
Offer the harpoon (if you haveit)? Turnto76

Decline, thank him and leave? Turn to 150
Attack him? Turn t 329

55

You flee the wrath of the angry Water Flemental,
propelled by a sudden angry current from its up-
raised hand. fhe sharp coral cuts you cuelly as
you struggle through the narrow tunnel. Lose 2
STAMINA points. If you are still alive, you find
yourself back below the trapdoor. If you go down-
stream, turn to 221. Tf you trv to gel through the
trapdoor, turn to 365.

59-64

39
As the trident streaks through a deep, cold chasm,
you manage to pull your hand free. The trident
continues on its path and vanishes. Tur to 6,

60

You gather your courage and kiss the lishy princess.
It works! Her eyes open. She looks at her rescuer

.. and screams with terror al your human face.
When she realizes what has happened, however,
she apologizes. Io show her gratitude, she takes a
ning from her own hand and gives it to you. It is
magical, she tells you, and has great virtue against
paisons. You thank her and take your leave of the
admiring Deep Ones. Turn to 347.

61
Unfortunately, you do not have such an artefact. [f
you Know the name of a helpful Dolphin, turn to
288. IF you do not, furn to 745.

62-63

62

The cave opening in the cliff is casily twice your
height, and broad in proportion. On the rocks
around the opening you can see huge scratches, like
the marks of enormous claws. You feel dwarfed as
you swim slowly inside- The interior of the cavern is
dimly lit, but brightens as you continue. Rounding a
bend, you confronta huge SEA DRAGON, curled
up on a gleaming pile of treasure. It fixes you with
an eve as big as a cannon-ball. What will you do:

Flee? Tum to 231
Attack? Turn to 28
Tell it the story of your
adventure? Turn to 7
63

You would rather not put your faith in magic you
don’t understand, so you kick your shoes off, drop
your heavy belt and swim for the surface. You gasp
for air. and feel a tingling: your wills have vanished
again!

A pirate on board the Troff sees you in the water and
shouts loudly. The pirates line the rail to laugh.
When they see that your hands are nol tied and you
ate swimming away, their laughter stops and they
drop a small boat to pursue you. This time they
won't make the mistake of giving you a chance. You
are dead.
64-66

64

You swim down over the city. As you get doser,
most of the buildings seem in rather poor repair. But
seyeral things seem worthy of closer attention. Will
you investigate:

A huge palace with stnped
domes? Turn to 193
A large sunken galleon lying on
its side? Turn to 282
An atea that looks like an
underwater garden? Turn to2
65

As you approach the sunken cathedral, you pass
over an area of broken stone covered with nasty-
looking, svrithing creatures. If you swim down to
investigate, turn to 311. If you swim harder to get
past, turn to 2972.

66

You take a single Provision from your bag and toss il
towards the Batfish. One of them seizes it and
swims away; the other three continue to circle. You
can distract one Batfish for each additional Pro-
vision you throw. Lf you distract all four of them,
tum to 390. If you distract some of the Batfish, but
not all of them, turn to 13 to fight the ones you did
not feed,

|

67-69

‘Unfortunate,’ says Greylock. They contain power-
ful magic which might have made your quest easier.
But if you have found nome yet, I doubt you will
locate enough to do the job before nightfall. Still,
there are other ways. I would advise you not to
confront your foes directly. But if you cannot go to
them, you can bring them dawn to you." You press
tor an explanation. There is more than one way to
skin a cat- ora pirate,’ replies Greylock obscurely.
‘But if you don’t have the tools for the job, you can
talk to the Sea Dragon. Tle is treacherous and
greedy, but he can help you. . . ifhe wants to.’ He
changes the subject abruptly. ‘What about Silzer
Pearls? Have you any of those?’ lf your answer is
“Yes, turn to 241. Ifitis ‘No’, turn to 393.

68
You dink the coins and wait several minules.
Nothing happens. Turn to 292.

6g
The MERMAN spars with you cautiously, jabbing,
with his trident and withdrawing. Te is a fairly
skilful fighter, and he hovers near the ceiling to
make it hard for you to hit him.

MERMAN SKILL 9 STAMINA £0

If vou fry to Escape, furn to 152. If you kill the
Merman, turn to 326.
70-72

7O
‘Halt!’ cries the king. “Enough! Take Sharkspear
away and minister to his wounds. Surface-dweller,
you have shown your prowess. How can we help
you?’ As you tell your story, a fishy doctor examines
you, Regain 2 STAMINA points and turn to 296.

7
The Elemental thanks you repeatedly, wishing you
luck in your battle. Restore 2 points of tuck. A hole
appears in the ceiling. It is too small to swim into, so
you pull yourself upward, hand over hand, your
sword at the ready. Turn lo 220.

You swim away as fast as you can. Lose 1 STAMINA
point, and 1 Luck point as well, for bemg cowardly.
You look around you fora shark-proot hiding-place.
Not far away vou see a small building with only one
entrance . . . a door too small for a Shark to pass
through. You enter and look around. The first thing
you see is a large, dark opening in the floor. It
appears to be the mouth ofa pipe. Despite your best
efforts, you are sucked down into darkness. Turn
to 104.

73-74

You swing your sword at the Lionfish and it hisses
with dismar-

LIONFISH SKILL 9

You cannot Escape: it is too fast. Lf you kill it, turn
7 3102.

STAMINA 12

74
Hovering beneath the great trapdoor, you hack and
pry with your sward, but te no avail. The door
remains shut fast. What is worse, you have dulled
your sword. Subtract 1 from your Attack Strength
whenever you use this weapon from now on. What
will you do now;

Use the Axelish (if you possess

it}? Turn to 134
Use the Sawtlish (if you possess

it}? Turn to 323
Go upstream fif you have not

done so already}? Turn tu 384
Go downstream? ‘turn ta 221

75-76
they brandish their rusty swords, You can fight
therm one ata time:

SKILE STABRIINA

FirstSKELETON 5 5
Second SKELETON V3 6

lf you try to Escape, turn to 295. lf you destroy both
Skeletons, turn to 328.

He declines politely; he doesn’t need that. ‘Turn
back to 57 and make a different choice, or turn tf 150

and leave.
77-78

77 |
You do not have to wait very long before the Sea
Ogre leaves — perhaps to hunt more victims. You
know vou need to escape soon. What will you do?

Lise the Saw'fish (if vou possess

it)? Turn to 362
Use the Axefish (if you possess

it)? turn to18
Use the ice crystal (if you possess

it}? Turn to 394
Call the Dolphin (if you know its

name)? Lurn to 337
None of these? Tum to g1

You dodge towards one of the windows, and fall —
but into the picture not through the window! Tum
to 244.

79-81

ad

——™“

79
if you have no sword, he tosses you one, laughing,
‘Defend yourself, arrogant one!’ You suon realize
that your strange-looking opponent is a master of
the blade:

SWORDFISH SKILL 11 STAMINA 10

He is angered, and you cannot Escape, If you kill
him, turn to 158.

80
it is ne illusion, and it is certainly not friendly! ft
slashes you with its barbed tail. Lose 2 sramina
points. Turn to 294 and fight,

51

You bow politely (0 mean feat while you are swim-
mins) and offer the Hag your magical sword, hilt
frst. ‘Oh well,” she mutters, ‘anything magical is
worth something, | suppose.’ She waves her hand
and restores einer vour LUCK or yOUTSTAMINA (your
chance) to its Inia! value. Then she orders you to
leave. You are powerless to disobey. Turn to 162,
82-84

82
You feel a throbbing. The bite was poisonous! If you
possess a ring thal protects you from poison, turn
to 250. If you do not possess such a ring, turn to 336.

83

You open the chest. Instantly, effervescent bubbles
rise and fill the water around vou. Their sparkling
invigorates you, Increase your Initial sta mina score
by 4, and raise your current STAMINA to that new
value, As the bubbles subside, you see that the chest
also contains a dagger. If you take the dagger, turn
to 263. If you leave it alone, turn to 382.

ePo@

84
The bottle is made of red glass. Inscribed on the

outside, in your own language (which the Ghost
apparently could not read) are the words “Healing
Pation’. You may drink it now or take it with you. It
may be taken at any time except during a battle, and
will restore your STAMINA to its Initial level. You
thank the Ghost and leaye, swimmine towards the
square stone building you saw earlier. Turn to 159.

85-86

85
Your refusal infuriates the Elemental. ‘If yau won‘t
sive me what] need,’ it hisses, Tl take it! Lt altacks
you. Turn to 210.

86

You have slain the Sea Dragon, a feat worthy of the
greatest hero. There is more treasure here than you
could spend in a lifetime. Unfortunately, you have
mo way fo carry it with you! You finally settle for 2
Black Pearls fall you can find) and a dozen Gold
Pieces, along with one very fine sapphire, Seeing
light towards the back of the cavern, you swim in
that direction, out of a narrow tunnel and up to-
wards the light. Tum tu 202.

87

‘You swim towards the hnge formation of coral. It
seems to take the form of a wall surrounding three
sides of a huge rack bow!. You enter through the
‘open side and swim towards the inside of the wall

Then, looking down, you see enormous eyes lool
ing back up at you! Ten huge (entacles unfold and
reach out. The ereature below vou is the legendary
KRAKEN, a monster big enough to sink a shipt Its

reat beak opens and clases. What will you do!

Swim down and fight the Kraken? Tum to 253
‘Try to hide ina niche in the coral

wall? Tuen to99
Tum around and make for open

water? Tum to309

88-89

58
The Sawfish is dead, and all the other Toolfish have
escaped, You search the room, but find nothing.
You still have whatever you bought from the Mer-
man before you attacked him (if anything). lum
lo 150.

wa * "s Ob't
"e@ee 6 *"*s6
oebas eat fae RAZ

Ps ef
5c ta." °
eres

-—-@ -*
2a, ¢.8
== 4-,*
= @

~ 5
7.8

As vou swim towards the tower, you are spotted Dy
a creature within. You glimpse a green, bulging-
eyed face. ‘Not here, land-dweller! Use the front
entrance!’ It points downward, Return to 103 and
make another choice.

go-gz

go

Roll three dice. If the result is less than or equal to
your current sTAMINa, the trapdoor opens. I the
resultis more than your currentsTAMINA, the door
opens anyway, but vou have strained yoursell, and
you lose 1 STAMINA point. Turn to 271,

oi
You hammer at the bars of the cayze, hoping to
escape by main force. Test your Luck, If you are
Lucky, turn to 200. lf you are Unlucky, turn to 392.

92
You have dealt with both Giant Crabs. Little fish
appear, seemingly from nowhere, ta pick at the
white crab meat. What will you do now:

Sampie the crab meat yourself?
Investigate the brick building?
Leave the area?

Turn to 400
Turn to 341
Turn to 389

93-94

93
The Grouper mistakes your caution for fear. It
rushes you before you can gel your sivord up. To
avoid being swallowed, you kick at its nose, and
it bites your leg. Lost 2 STAMINA points and tum
tO 119.

94
You attack the dump of Anemones. Their poisoned

tentacles extend hugely and reach out for you.
slapping you across your arms and chest. Their
touch burns you! If you possess a nng that protects
you from poison, turn to 45. If noi, Lurn to 314.

95-96

95

He is surprised at rour sudden attack, but defends
himsell, dodging out of reach and waving his wand
at you. Your vision blurs and you fall to the ground.
You are having trouble breathing. He shakes his
head in puzzlement, picks you up and throw's you
through the bubble into the water. You find you can
dreathe again. You swim away, dimly realizing that
something has changed. Indeed it has! You are now
a fish —and an ugly one, at that. Your adventure is
over.

96

fhe tunnel turns sharply upwards. It leads to
another huge trapdoor. Without much hope, you
brace yourself against a wall and push. To your
surprise, the door is counterbalanced and rises
easily. You leaye and it closes behind you. On top is
2 huge boulder; you suon learn that the door does
not open from this side. You find yourself on the
sea-floor once again, with sunlight visible above.
The Glowfish swims away, its work done. Not far
rom you is a building that looks like a small house.
itis deserted and its roof is smashed. Beyond itis a
huge, deep abyss. If you investigate the little house,
turn to 172. If you swim past it and down into the
ebyss, turn to 6.
97-98

97

You bend and min yuur sword between the Clam‘s
shells. It opens, revealing a large Silver Pearl. You
take the treasure giectully and pop it into your bag.
But while you are distracted, a huge SEA SPIDER
falls from the ceiling on to vour back! It wounds you
once, costing yOu 2 5TAMINA points, before you can
defend yourself. You fight the Sea Spider:

SEA SPIDER SKILL 7 STAMINA 10

If you Escape, turn to 222. If you kill the Sea Spider,

turn to 371-
oa@

98
You think you can handle a single ugly Eel. You
slash at it with your sword, and it responds by
striking at you with needle-like fangs.

MORAY EEL SKILL 7 STAMINA 12

The close confines keep you from trying to Escape-
ff you kill the Eel, turn to 131,
99-100

99

You dart into a large hole in the coral, just ahead ofa
reaching tentacle. Exploring your refuge. you lind
that it does not lead all the way through the coral
svall, You may eal Provisions now ordrink a Potion.
You are safe for the moment - . - or are you? The
Kraken’s huge arms are tearing the coral away from
the entrance and probing after you. What will you
do now:

Use the ice crystal (if you haveit)? Turn to 195
Use the Potion of Vaporous

Essence (if you have it}? Turn to 278
Use a Toolfish? tum to 31
Attack with your sword? Turn {0 253
None of the above? Turn to 147

100

You swim around the ship until you find an anchor-
rope, and climb abvard the Irofi. The dumbfounded
sentries gape at you, As they raise the alarm, you
reach into your pouch and pull out the Black Pearls
you have gathered. {If you have an odd number of
Pearls, you hold ane back.) Casting the Pearls to the
deck, you cry out the magic word! A aud of fog
appears around the Pearls and solidifies into chalk-
white bones. The Pearls have become the eyes ol
your enchanted Skeletons! How many Pearls did
you throw down:

‘Two? Turn 10313
Four? Turn to 274
Six? Turn to53

Fight or more? Tum to236

a em

101

101

Restore 2 points of tuck. The Ghost leads yay to
various places around the city, to find his sealiered
bones. The creatures of the deep sive you both a
wide berth as you work. Some of the bones are
exposed on the sea-floor; others are buried in sand
or coral. As you work, you find a single Gold Piece.
Before the job is done, you are tired; half your
remaining STAMINA {round down) is lost.

Al last vou are finished; the skull and bones are
placed in a large urn, wedged safely between lwo
large rocks and covered with sand. The Ghost is
pleased: his spirit is now free. In return he offers to
help you by leading you toa sealed bottle near by.
He does not know whatis init, but he senses magic!
He takes you to the battle. Roll one die ta see what
you have found: on 1-2, turn to 84; on 3-4, turn to
360; on 5-6, turn to 48.

102

102
Having slain the Lionfish, you cantinue in the
direction from which it came. The seaweed forest
becomes darker. ‘Then, abruptly, it falls away into
a neatly kept clearing. Within the clearing ts a very
ordinary-looking cottage, surrounded by a great
iridescent bubble, Inside the bubble you can see
everyday land-dwelling shrubs — and even a cal!

You swim closet and peer through the bubble intoa
window of the cottage. Inside you can see an old
man sitting at a desk. Suddenly he becomes aware
of you and looks up, Meeting your eye, he waves
vou towards the front of the cottage. His athtude is
brisk and no-nonsense. If you swim back into the
cover of the gardens, turn to 322. If you go t the
front and meet the old man, turn to 135-

—?

SLL i

103-104

103

You swim down towards the palace. It is the largest
building you haye seen in Atlantis; indeed, itis one
of the largest buildings you have ever seen any-
where. It is also in a good state of repair. As you
swim closer, you see the reason: the palace is in-
habited! Two human-looking guards, dressed in
colourful uniforms, are patrolling the huge main
entrance. What will you do:

Swim quickly down and attack

them? Turn to 333
Swim slowly down and hail

them? Turn to 35
Try to enter one of the towers? Turn to 89

104
The current whirls you through the pipe. Fortu-
nately, its sides are slick, so you are not hurt. But the
corkscrewing current leaves you very dizzy. Your
SKILL will be reduced by 1 fer your next battle only,
fhe pipe spews you out on a patch of soft sand. But
your leather bag is nowhere to be found!

just as you give up hope, you find it draped ona
piece of coral above your head. All your treasures
are intact, lying on the sand. But your Provisions are
gone, no doubt eaten by the fish. You reattach the
bag to your belt and look around. Onone side of you
ts a large walled garden. On the other side is a
sunken ship. If you proceed through the gate into
the garden, turn to 2. If you investigate the ship,
turn to 282.
105-107

105

You swim to the surface and take a deep breath of
air, feeling your mayic gills vanish as you do so.
Behind vou, the Elemental forms a wave. Riding the
crest of spray, you travel faster than you had ever
dreamed possible. Before long, you see the lights of
Port Blacksand twinkling in the dusk. You thank the
Elemental as it deposits you on the shore, You failed
in your quest to defeat the pirates - - - but at least
you're alive. Maybe some day you Can again ty to
find them.

106

As you slep over the fissure, you feel a strange force
pulling at you. Then the necklace becomes terribly
heavy and pulls you down towards the fissure! Lest
your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 155. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 204-

107
You thank the Dragon very respectfully. Seving
light towards the back of the cavern, you swim in
that direction, out of a narrow tunnel and up to
wards the light. Lurn to 202.

108-110

108
You jump on its back, throw your arms around its
neck and try to hang on. The Sea-horse bolts. Test
vour Luck. Lf you are Lucky, you stay on (turn tog). If
you are Unlucky, you are thrown off (turn to 380).

109
Your words infuriate the dull-witted Ogre. ‘Not eat
you later!" it growls. ‘Eat younow!’ It hurls away the
bars and comes towards you- If you foughtit earlier,
it has the sramina it ended the battle with, plus 4
pots it has recovered since the fight. Otherwise, it
has the stamina given below.

SEA OGRE

You cannot Escape. If you kill the Sea Ogre, turn to
163-

SKILL 7 STAMINA 18

110

No matter how hard you struggle, you cannot let go
of the cursed trident. It drags you along, even after
you drown and the flesh drops from your bones. At
last only a single skeletal arm is left, still gripping
the trident as it sails along its path for ever.

a
a
=

111-112

111

You look around you. You are in the mids! of some
ereal wreckage —whether ofa ship or building, you
cannot tell. You are surrounded by logs, stones and
scraps of wood and metal. Out of the corner of your
eye, you see 2 flash of movement. Then you leel a
tug at vour belt. You realize that there are little
Octopuses all around you, watching you with their
ereat eves and investigating you with their ten-
tacles. What will you do:

Flee? Turn &142

Attack them? ‘Turn to 290

Offer them some food? Turn to 34
112

Test your Tuck. If vou are Lucky, you swim away

quickly and the Eel fets you go (turn to 64). IFyou are
Unlucky, the Eel’s head darts out andits sharp teeth
catch your clothes as vou flee. If withdraws, pulling
you infoits cave. You are not hurl—not yet—bul you
must fight it. Turn to 98-

113-114

m3
You are trapped in darkness, with no way of making
alight. Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 29- IE
you are Unlucky, turn to 182.

ii4

You tell Greylock that you want to find the Sea
Dragon. “Very well,” he replies. “Good fortune to
you.’ THe escoris you back to the front door of his
collage. When it opens, you see, not the gardens,
but a weed-lined tunnel. A glistening film holds
back the water that fills the tunnel. You lower
yourself through, feeling a tingling sensation as you
cross the magical barrier. The door closes behind
you. Turn to 385.

115-116

115

You do, in fact, possess a Black Pearl, so it is within
your power to free the Water Elemental. What will
you do;

Give the Elemental a Pearl? Turn > 343
Ask the Elemental what it will

exchange? Turn Kk 242
Tell the Elemental you have no

Pearl? Turn to 187

116
Srandishing vour sword, you climb on deck. At
first, the pirates flee in fear; then they rally. As vou
tisht vour wavy towards the bow, you slay pirate

alter pirate. But at last their superior numbers prove

your undoing, as they did once belore. You fall,
Di cedins from a hundred wounds. Your adventure
tS OFET.
tiyv-119

117
You dodge away from the attacking Devilfish. Test
your Luck. If you are Lucky, you jump away from it
(turn Lo 78), If you are Unlucky, it ouf-guesses you
and lashes down again: turn to 294 and fight it.

118
You flee, Lose 2 more STAMINA points before you
can shake off the last of your crawling tormentors- li
you are still alive, tum to 389.

119
You draw your sword and slash at the Grouper. it
does its best to swallow you.

GROUPER SKILL 8 STAMINA 12

You cannot Escape. Fortunately, the big fish is in
search uf easier prey. lt you can hit it twice, it will
flee instead of pursuing the fight. If you succeed in
driving itaway, tum to 340.

120-121

120
You swim up through the tunnel, and re enter the
Vemon's room. [tis unchanged, and there is no sign
ot the Elemental. You continue up through the hole
in the roof. Turn to 361,

121
the Mermen stop their advance to hear yau out.
You explain that you meant no harm by invading
their cavern, and only fought the guard because he
mghtened vou. They are angry, but finally accept
your excuses. Their leader gives you a choice: you
can give up all your possessions except one
weapon, and leave their cavern — or you can die,
What will you do:

Accept his sentence and leave?

Attack with your sword?

Snatch the fallen Merman’s
trident and attack?

Turn tu 356
Tum to 281

Turn to 24

122-123

I22

You fight the Sea Snakes. They are many-coloured
and very beautiful, but their bite is poisonous. Each
time a Sea Snake hits you, you lose 3 STAMINA
points instead of 2. A successful use of Luck will
reduce the damage tu 1, bufan unsuccessful use of
LUCK will increase it to 4! You fight the nest of Sea
snakes as a single opponent:

SEA SNAKES SKIEI. g STAMINA 7

é

If you Escape, turn to 3. (Remember that if you
Escape, vou will be bitten one last time, and it will
cost you 3 STAMINA points rather than 2.) If you kill
the Sea Snakes, turn tu 206-

123
4n enormous CLAMsnaps shut on yourleg! Lose 1
STAMINA point. But the Clam is only part of the
problem. A huge SEA SPIDER, from its vanlage
sera in the shadows on the ceiling, observes your
predicament and attacks you. You cannot escape.
nearer: the Clam on your foot reduces your
Attack Strength by 2 floras long as itis holding you.
You can take ; a furn to mn your sword between the
Clam’s shells and free yourself — but the Sea Spider
will automatically hit you once if you do!

SEA SPIDER SKILL F STAMINA [0

if ee < ce yourself from the Clam and Escape, turn
t If you kill the Sea Spider, turn to 268.
124-126

124

The fruit tastes delicious, rather like a pear with
honey, [1 restores 2 lost STAMINA points. You try
another one, but it has no further effect. You swim
on down the path. Turn to 234.

125

You have killed the monstrous Kraken. Restore 5
LUcK points. ‘hisis one tale you will never tell in the
taverns: nobody svould believe you! You investigate
its lair. The Kraken had no treasure; it did not care
for gold, But inside the huge shellfish around its
rocky hole you find 3 Black Pearls. Above you the
ocean is turing blood-red with the rays of the
sinking sun. You know you must leave soon. Turn
lo 382,

126
‘You fight well for a thief,” booms the Statuc. “Re-
turn my crown, and | will let you live.“ f you retum
the crown, turn to 149- If you will keepitand fight to
the end, turn to 289.

127-128

127

You bow and offer the Hag a Black Pearl from your
beg. She accepts greedily. ‘Do you have any more?’
she asks. ‘Give them to me!’ You tremble in anger,
but you cannot disobey, She takes all your Pearls,
laughing nastily. With a casual wave of her hand,
she restores both your tuck and your stamina to
their nited values. Then she orders you to leave. A
hot current of water lifts you and thrusts you into
the cormmdor; the duor slams behind you. Turn to
162.

123
What gift will you offer the Water Sprite:
Food? Turn to 364
Gold? Turn to 213
A magicitem? Turn to 352
129-132

129

The Sea Ogre is quick and strong, Test your Luck
twice. If you are Lucky both times, you manage to
dodge about until vou can get out of its sight, and let
the current take you far away down the abyss (tum
to 148). Tf you are Untucky even once, it catches you
and imprisons your sword-arm before you can
attack (turn ta 256). Even if you are Unlucky on the
first roll, you must stil lose 1 Luck point for the
second try-

130
This inoffensive creature is totally useless in battle-
Lose 1 LUCK point. Return to 188 and choose
another fish, or turn ta 47 and try another tactic
entirely.

131
The Eel thrashes and dies. You drag it out of the
cave and watch it tumble slowly down through the
water, tvisling in the current. Returning to the
cave, you search it, and find a single Gold Piece.
Turn to 64.

132

The Merman is quite fond of gold, but he asks 2
pieces for each fish. If you will pay that price, turn to
316 and choose one fish for ev ery 2 gold Pieces vou
pay. If you cannot (or will not) pay that price, tum
back to 57 and make a different offer, or hin to 150
and fcave-

433-14

133

Blood fills the water as the lifeless body of the
Dolphin drifts away. Suddenly, a sixth sense
Warns you to turn around. A huge sand-coloured
SHARK, drawn by the blood in the water, is attack-
ing you! You realize that there is ne way you can
Escape this monster; you will have to fight. You do
not have ime & eat Provisions or use Potions before

this battle begins.
SHARK

Lt you kill the Shark, turn to 370-

SKILL § STAMINA 15

E54

You remove the Axefish from your pouch and re-
lease it. Tt grows to a metre-long fish with a heavy
horned bill. Swimming at the trapdoor, it smashes
it with several quick strikes, swims through and
vanishes. You clear away the splinters and follow it
through. You find yourself back in the mausoleum.
You guickly swim out of the great bronze doors.
Turn to 23.
135-136

135

The door opens and the old man strides out. He
introduces himself as Greviock and invites you in.
Caufiously, you step through the protective bubble,
feeling your skin tingle. Once inside, you find you
are breathing air. He chuckles at vour surprise: ‘Ah

. . you are no wizard, then.” You tell him about the
pentagram that bestowed the gills on you, and he
nods. ‘A powerful spell. Don’t worry. Mv home
here is under a different enchantment, which will
not interfere with vour protechon.’

You may have heard the name Greylock before. If
yOu possess something bearing that name, turn to
14. If not, furn to 225.

aSa@

136
You do not have time to check the bodies for things
of value; an angry mob of fish-people is pouring
down the castle steps and out of the high windows.
You swim quickly away, soon out-cistancing pur-
suit. Turn to 347.
137-138

137
‘No matter, “he sighs. “Cyrano knows well what itis
like to be penniless. 1 svill instruct you anyway, for
the lave of the art.’ Tle offers you a drink rom his
flask, and you accept. You instantly feel stronger;
you regain 2 STAMINA points, or enough to raise
your STAMINA to 10, whichever is higher. If you
have no sword, he tosses vou one. Cyrano salutes
you and drops into an ev garde position. Defend
yourself!’ he says, “We shall test your skill!” You
ficht:

CYRANO SKILL 11

The fight is over when one of you has sustained
three wounds. Hi you hit Cyrano three times, tum
ta.176. If he hits vou three times, turn to 46-

STAMINA I0

138
The Mermen enjoyed your visil, and ther crowd
around you to wish you good luck. Knowing of your
quest, they offer advice. Ht you icel very brave and
lucky, they. tell you, vou should visit the Sea Dragon
— but he is dangerous! lf you need information to
help vou find your path, you should visit the
sunken cathedral. And if you need good fortune,
you should seek out the Water Sprite . . . but be-
ware of hungry crabs! They will point out the path
towards any of these three:

The Sea Dragon? iurn to 62
The sunken cathedral? Turn to 202
The ater Sprite? Tur to 363

139-141

239

You should know better than to open other people's
mail. When you break the seal, water rushes into
the bottle. Atits touch, the envelope inside corrodes
and Bubbles. A foul reddish liquid hisses from the
bottle and chokes you. Lose 2 points of sramMiNAa,
The Ghost vanishes. You swim away towards the
stone building vou saw earlier. Turn to 159,

140
You remain hidden. The Dragon calls again, but
eventually gives up, It gathers its treasure and
leaves. You swim to the sunken Troll to look it aver.

lt is almost nightfall. If you untie one of the ship’s
boats and Hoat up with it to make your way home,
turn to 238_ If you head for the treasure-hold, turn

2 369.

iW
ignoring the Sea-horse, you swim towards your
goal. As your shadow passes over il, the Sea-horse
spooks and swims away, but it soon gets over ils
fright and returns tu its grazing. Turn to 65.

142-144

142

You kick off to escape, but a tentacle is looped
around your foot. You sprawl on the sea-tloor! The
curious Octopuses swarm around you, probing
with their tentacles. They steal two Provisions (if
you have that many} and any two items from your
bag (your choice). You struggle free and swim
away. If you examine the huge coral formation in
the distance, turn to 87- lf you go in the other
direction, turn to 382.

143
This seems like a very good time to ust the Potion of
faporous Essence. Carefully, you open the bottle
and drink. Before the Oxre‘s very eyes you turn into
a mist and drift between fhe bars and out of the
cave. He springs towards you, Cutching with his
great hands, but you slip between his fingers. As
you drift downstream, you sce the Ogre beating on
the round in frustration. Before long you feel your
body and possessions becoming solid again. Tum
to 148.

144

The fringes of the whirlpool spin you around, You
feel dizzy; your Attack Strength will be reduced by 2
for your next combal only. If you swim towards a
larger coral formation in the distance, turn to 87. If
you go in the other direction, towards an area af
racks and sunken timbers, furn to 174.

145-147

145
Unfortunately, you haye no way of finding for sure
where the pirates have gone, and no way of getting,
there if vou knew. The sun is at the horizon. If you
swim for the surface, turn to 27. If you clive towards
anothersunken ship you see below you, turn to 349.

146

The gargoyles are not the stone monsters you ex-
pected, but statues of ordinary people, squatting
and making hideous faces. You woncler just who
built this cathedral. As you are puzzling over the
Statuary, you see four hungry-looking BATFISH
swimming towards you. They are strange-looking
creatures, with small bodics, huge fins and sharp
teeth. If you fight them, turn to 13. If you try ta
appease them by tossing food, turn to 66-

147
You sit still and wait. The tentacles conlinue to lear
away the coral. Your hope that the Kraken would
lose interest goes unanswered. It can almost reach
you now. Tf you fight, turn to 253- If you try te flee
past the tentacles, lurn to 309.
148-149
148

Gradually, as the current carries you downstream,
you make your way towards the rim of the chasm.
Eventually, you emerge into a rocky areca of sea-
floor. Not far away you can sce what looks like an
old brick building, surrounded by weed-grown nib-
dle. You swim over and investigate. The building is
the home of a pairof GIANT CRABS. What will you

?

co:

Attack them? Turn lo219g
Swim away? Tum to 32
Throw food to them? furn to298

M4) ee.

TP

.-:
o
sane:

Care
448,
«* *

1 8@%aq

149
You tass the jade crown towards the Statue. It
catches tt delicately, liftsit toits head, and returns to
its former position. It freezes into immobility — but
now the stone eyes are watching vox. You think it
best to leave quickly. Turn to 23-
150-151

150
You leave the Merman’s workshop and swim
through the underwater corridors. Soon you sce
light — an opening to the outside. You leave the
arena and sivim towards the strange patch of dean
sand that you noticed earlier. Turn tu 196.

151
The Dolphin arcles you, swimming off a short was
and then returning. At last you realize thal it wants
you to follow. You trail it through a hidden break in
the coral reef, over a steep underwater cliff and
down lo a patch of sand between a sunken galleon

and a huge iron gate that opens into an underwaler

rarden, it butts you playfully with its nose, arrows
aff and vanishes. If you proceed through the gate,
turn to 2. If you would rather look at ‘the sunken
ship first, turn to 282.

152-154

152
Other Mermen join the chase as you swim back
down the cavern. The angry Mermen pursue you
fora little war, butsvhen you opena heavy doorand
dive through it, they break off their pursuit and
langh. You hear the door being barred behind you.
You wonder if you have made a mistake, but there is
nothing rou can do except po on. Ahead of youisa
faint glow. Turn tc 43.

153
You knock again. This time, the door swings wide
open in front of vou and slams against the coral
wall. Glaring at you with angry, reddened eves isa
withered SEA HAG! Her hand is raised as if tb cast
2 curse. What will you do:

Apologize and offer her a gift? Turn los

Flee? Turn to 368

Attack her? Turn to 254
154

‘Well then,’ says the ald wizard, ‘that is about all T
can do for you. And you have to hurry, you know,’
You consider Greylock’s advice. IF you think you
want to find the Sea Dragon, turn to 114. If you
would rather zof meet the Sea Dragon, turn to 261.

155-157

155
You manaye to kick yourself backwards. The neck
lace is still pulling at you. You manage to get it off,
and it shoats down into the fissure. The room
suddenly looks threatening te you, and you dive
out of the door. Turn to 162.

156

‘Easily done!’ quacks the Dolphin. You cling to its
back as it arrows through the water towards your
chosen destination. Befare long you arrive at 2
darkened island. As you break the surface. your
gills yanish. [he Dolphin wishes you luck and
swims away. Stealthily you wade towards the
shore, where you see a pirate camp. Uniortunatelr,
you have found the wrong pirates! Not ane shipload
of brigands, but several, are carousing here. As you
Tealize your mistake, the pirates see you. They
welcome ¥ou in a fashion even less pleasant than
Captain Bloodaxe’s. Your adventure ts over.

157
How sill you clink the coins together to call the Sea
Dragon:

Twice, and then three times? Tum to 68
Three times, and then three
times? Tum to 315

Three times, and then fwice? Turn io 292

158-159

158

You have defeated the Swordfish, He throws you
one last salute belore he falls. When his body
touches the floor, if changes form. His weapon and
cdothes vanish, leaving nothing but an ordinary
lish. You search the room, finding nothing excep a
sliver flask. I vou drink, turn te 203. [f you ignore it
and leave, turn to 355.

159

You approach the building from the side. Swim-
ming around to the front, you see a wide entrance
with marble steps and huge bronze doors, now
corroded and green. The doors are ajar. Within the
building is a huge, fat fish. which sees you and
swims lazily in your direction. Itis a GROUPER at
least Gyice as big as you are. It looks hungry. hal
will you do:

Attack with your sword? ‘Turn to 119
Use the harpoon (if you have it)? Turn to 280
Swim awa¥? Turn to 230

Circle around it? Turn ter 93
160-147

160

As you approach the coral reef, you sve that it
is a place of extraordinary beaut. Thousands of
brightly coloured fish are flitting about between the
branches of green and white coral. As you watch,
bemused, you hear tinkling laughter. You furn and
sec a small creature watching vou, The WATER
SPRITE is human in appearance, but only about a
metre tall, with greenish skin sprinkled with tiny
golden scales. What will you do:

Attack? Turn to 30

Tellit your story? Turn ti 305

Offer it a sift? Turn lo 128
161

You leave the arena floor and enter an underwater
labyminth lit only by the glowing moss on the svalls.
Here, when Atlantis was young, were the eladi-
ators quarters. And here, behind these bamnacle-
coy¥ered tron bars, must have been the animal cares.
Fasemated, vou continue ta search, finding nathing
that is useful, but much thatis strange and interest-
ing. At length you notice a stronger glow... nol
sunlizht. but a blue phosphorescence. If you swim
towards it, turn to 251. If you keep to the darkened
areas, turn to 346.
162-163

162
You continue down the coral tunnel. Ahead of vou,
a huge brain coral divides the passageway in two.
One branch goes slightly downward and to the leit;
the other goes upward and to the right. If you go
down, turn to 49- If you go up, turn to 395.

163

You have slam the Ogre. Searching its cave, you
find enough clean, fresh fish to add two Provisions
Eo your store, You also find an ordinary-looking
sword, which vou may take if you like. Examining
the dead Sea Ogre, you find a greenish brass spiral
ring, on ils finger. It is carved with runes you cannot
read. If you take the ring, hirn to 248. If vou leave it
and swim clownstreani, turn to 148.

164-166

164

The Mermen’s games room is a sumptuous cavern,
full of Mermen and Mermaids disparting them-
selves and gambling for gold, jewels and trinkets, Lf
you have any Gold Pieces or Black Pearls, you may
gamble them. {You may not take the Potion of
Fortune into this room, as your hasts would think it
unfair, but you may use the Lucky Charm withoul
being noticed.) You do not have ta gamble at all. If
you choose to gamble, decide what you will wager
(either 1 Pearl or 1 Gold Piece) and Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, you double your slake. If you are
Unlucky, vou lose your stake. You may gamble as
many times as you like, as long as you have some-
thing to gamble with, When you are ready to leave
the pames room, turn to 138.

165
Tre as you might, you cannot break the chain of the
necklace. [t drags you deeper and deeper, and the
water is like fire in your gills and lungs, You lose
comscigusness as the heat becomes unbearable.
Your journey is over,

166
You pick some greens and approach the Sea-horse,
talking to it gently. lt looks nervous, bul eventually
settles down and eats from your hand. What will
you do now:

Goon your way?
Attack it?
[ry to jump on it and ride?

Turn to 302
Turn t 291
Turn to 108
167-168

167
The Elemental does not know where the pirates are
located. Where will you ask it to carry you to find
them:

Fish Island? ‘Turn to 207
Pirate Cove? Turn to 262
Bloodaxe Island? Turn to 308
Skull Island? Turn to279

168
The Bone Demon fights with three different
weapons at once. Each arm will have a separate
attack on you in each Attack Round, but you must
choose which of the three you will fight. Attack your
chosen arm as in a normal battle. As for the others,
even if your Attack Strength is greater you will not
wound them. You must just count this as though
you have defended yourself against them. How-
ever, if one of their Attack Strengths is greater, it
will have wounded you in the normal way. Further,
although the huge Axe-arm is very clumsy, it does
double damage if it hits you.

SKILL STAMINA

SWORD-ARM 9 6
SPEAR-ARM 7 6
AXE-ARM 4 8

You cannot Escape. If you defeat all the arms, turn
to 54.

169-171

169
The Crabs craw! all over you, nipping and pinching.
Individually they are not dangerous, but together
they are formidable! Roll one die and lose that many
STAMINA points. Now Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 249. H vou are Unlucky, turn to 319.

L7o
The swimming Bloodworms are dead. You hurry on
towards the cathedral before the others can block
your way. Turn to 26g.

ids
Ihe Elemental is downcast. It seems to grow
smaller, and the waters of the room become chilled.
You lose 1 LUCK point. Apologizing, you leave the
room the war you came. Tum ta 42.

172-173

172

You swim up to the house and through the hole in
the roof. This place has clearly been deserted for a
long time; nothing remains but the bare walls. It is
beautiful, though, with culoured anemones and
tropical fish everywhere. In one room is a cluster of
ig SEA ANEMONES, their tentacles waving gent-
ly in the current. If you leave the house, turn lo 381.
If you cxumine the Anemones, turn te 297.

173

Curious about your new surroundings, you circle
the courtyard. You lind that swimming is now very
natural to you. The mayic pentagram is formed of
deep red and green tiles, still clean and shiny de
spite the weeds and coral that choke the rest of the
courtyard. [The buildings around you are made of
ercy stune. One ts both larger and taller than the
rest, and seems in much better repair. You see
nothing around vou except fish. Then, from the
comer of your eye, Fou spy movement in the large
building. You realize that you are being watched.
IF vou go into the large Building to contront the
watchers, turn to 211. If you swim up and cutof the
courtrard to see what else you can find, turn lo 16,
174

174

As you go along the path, the small coral and plants
are replaced by taller seaweed. Gradually, the gar-
den becomes a forest. From ahead of you comes a
sound like a bubbling roar. You stop and listen. A
minute later the sound is repeated - . - from closer
by. IF you want to flee in the other direction, turn to
359. Lf you go forward to see shat made the noise,
turn to 38-

173

ric tells you that these Pearls are very powerful. If
you throw a pair of them on the ground and say the
magic word ‘Derd-nu-Peno’, an animated skeleton
wall appear to fight for you. The word will work for
up t) 10 Pearls at a time, to produce up to five
skeletons — an undead army! (“Though you
shouldn't need quite that many,’ he comments.) Lf
the skeletons are not destroyed in battle, the word
‘Derd-en-Parr’ uttered by the spell-custer will make
them vanish again, leaving the pearls unharined.
‘Remember this? says Greylock. ’And there are
more Pearls to be found, but most of them are
guarded by monsters such as the Seu Drayon, Now,
what about Silver pearls?’ he asks. ‘Have vou any of
those?” If your answer is ‘Yes’, turn to 247. Lf it is
‘No’, turn to 154.

176-1797

176

The fight ends; you may eat Provisions if you
need to regain strength. Cyrano congratulates you
warmly: ‘You are a master indeed! You have out-
pointed the great Cyrano! But you will find that
your skill has improved regardless, for Cyrano is a
master and a teacher of masters! Indeed, yoursxi11
score gocs up by 4 point, and your Init! SKILL score
is also raised by 1. Cyrano stamps his foot again,
and you find yourself back in the open ocean, in the
middle of a patch of broken timbers. Turn to 111.

177

The Dolphin is upset. ‘But there are many islands
with pirates! We would never find the right one! It
offers to help you home instead. Exhausted, you
accept. As sunset comes and your magical gills
vanish, you find yourself riding a Dolphin toward
Port Blacksand ... -astrange ending for youradven-
ture. You cid not find the pirates, but you have your
life.

178-179

178

‘Tam on the track of a pirate ship,’ you say. ‘Tf you
can help me destroy it, rou can have all the Lreasure
for yourself. All want to do is finish off the pirates.’
its eyes gleam, and if muns a possessive claw
through its golden hoard. ‘Agreed, itrumbles, ‘But
! cannot follow you around like a nursemaid,
human. Lf you find vour pirate ship, just clink two
gold coins together three times, and then three
himes again, and [ will hear ttund come." If vou have
2 Gold Pieces to clink together, turn to 107. Lf nol,
turn to 392.

£79
You release the Borerfish. It expands into a small
fish with a long corkscrew nuse. It swims bravely
down towards the Kraken, butis quickly caughtand
eaten. [Ff you possess another Toolfish, you can
release it (turn te 31). Tf vou want lo try something
different, turn to 99.
180-181

The chasm is very dark, but as your eves adjust you
can sce a faint preen glow in the depths. Swimming
downward, you see a light. You swim towards it
until you can make outa cave opening. In front of it
are a mide table and bench. Out of the corner of your
eye, you see a huge black shadow moving quickly
towards you, Turn to 256.

181
By the time the battle ends, most of the other ‘tools’
have taken [right and escaped. Three remaining fish
seem interesting: a Borerfish, an Axefish, and the
shining blue Glowlish overhead. You can add any
or all of these to your Possessions. Tum to 150-

182-183

182

You drift in the darkness fora long time, going with
the current. You wait for your eyes tu adjust tp the
darkness, but there is simply nothing to see. As the
hours pass, you become more and more frightened.
Sharp coral cuts you, and slimy things wriggle from
beneath your hands. Eventually the water-
breathing spell wears off and your gills disappear.

After the hours of terror, death is mercifully quick.

183

You were off balance from your lunge, and you are
drawn directly into the raging whirlpool. Roll twa
dice and lose that many stamina points! You are
also dizzy; your Attack Strength will be reduced by z
for your next combat uly. If you are still alive, you can
he on the sand, catch your breath and eat Provisions
if you wish. You vow never to be so disrespectful to
2 Water Sprite again! If you next swim towards a
larger coral formation in the distance, turn to 87. Lf
you go in the other direction, towards an area of
rocks and sunken timbers, turn to 111.

-

184
154

You decide to take a chance, and tug on the seal. As
you do so, the Ghost speeds away, evaporating as
he does so. The lead seal pops off, and a huge
bubble emerges trom the bottle. It solidifies into a
huge, frowning GENIE, wearing a jewelled turban.
‘For a thousand years I have been trapped inside
that cursed bottle!’ the Genie roars. ‘1 have waited
too long for my fated rescuer! Dare you explain your
woeful delay, or should | strike vou dead on the
spat?’ lest your Luck. If you are Lucky, you manage
to placate the Genie. He raises your Initial sr.
score by 4 and restores all lost skrit points before
vanishing.

if vou are Unlucky, vour explanation is not convine-
mg. The Genie lets you live — barely! He gestures,
and the water around you freezes and covers you
with ice! Then he vanishes. Through frantic effort,
you manage to break the ice before you freeze. Your
STAMINA 15 reduced to 1. You had better restand eat
Provisions before going on.

You swim away towards a large stone building.
furn to 159.
185-188

185
Well, you fought well,” says the king, ‘but our
champion defeated you. I'm afraid we cannot offer
you any preat help.’ You leave. Turn to 347.

186
You toss one Provision on the ground. Most of the
Octupuses gp to the food, but a few are more
interested in you and your bag. If you pull them
gently off with your hands, turn te 301- If you attack
with your sword, turn to 290.

187
Tm sorry,” vou say. “T have seen nothing like that
The Hlemental asks vou if you would be willing to
fizht its demon jailer. If you do, it promises to
reward you well. If you agree to fight the demon.
turn to 71. If you would rather not, turn to 172.

188
You swim underneath the ship. Though the sun is
sinking, you can still see clearly. From your bag you
take out the Toolfish you have chosen. Which one is
iE:

The Axefish? Tum to 306
The Borerfish? Turn to 55

The Sawtish? Tum to 264
The Glowfish? Tum to130

189-190
189

You have the ship - and no crew. But there is a brim
httle ship’s boat stowed on deck. You lower it
carefully into the water. A quick trip through the
deserted Trofi fills your bag with weasure. Soon you
cast off, setting the boat's sail for Port Blacksandl.
Behind you comes an explosion, as the fire you set
reaches the powder stores and sends the Troll to
Davy Jones’s locker. Soon you will be home, with
the pirates scuttled and a tidy bit of treasure. Your
adventure has ended well.

e@a@

190
The Merman challenges you to explain your intru-
sion. You respond politely, saying that you are
looking for 2 way out. Tle becomes affable and says,
‘Justso long as you aren't one of the Deep Ones. We
are at war with them.’ Tle escorts vou through the
cavern, which proves to be spacious and full of
Mermen and Mermaids. “You must let us show you
some hospitality,” he says. ‘Our sauna baths will
make a new person of vow. Or you could try your
luck in our games room.’ If you try the sauna baths,
tum to 266. If you visit the games room, tim tp 164.
191—1g2

igi
You swim around the interior of the building.
secing nothing unusual except the pictures. Before
long, YOu see another picture of yourself. This time.
you are fleeing from enormous tentacles! If you
leave the building, turn to 399. If you would rather
stay and look at more pictures, turn to 367.

192

You swim aft and downward, to the treasure-hold.
itis totally empty. [he walls are tom apart, and the
damage does not seem to have been done by coral
recfs, but rather by gigantic cles, From her lines,
you are sure this was a treasure-ship, but though
you search carefully, you find nothing but a single
Gold Piece, wedged between two timbers. If you
leave now, turn to 222. If you have not already
checked the captain’s cabin, you may do so now
(turn to 40),

193-195

193

Holding the ice crystal in your hand, you summon
the Elemental. The crystal vanishes. Within mo-
ments, the Elemental appears in the form of a
current of water. You need not speak; it under-
stands your peril. It enfolds you and shoots out of
the coral hole, between the Kraken’s arms and
away. Turn to 303-

194

it seats ttself solemnly on the fine sand and begins to
lecture you, emphasizing its points with a lang
forefinger. ‘Black Pearls are magical wealth, and will
bring you more wealth. [f you havea goadly pouch
of Pearls now, ‘were best you confronted your foes
quickly, ere night falls. If you require mare Pearls,
you may brave the Kraken’s lair, but “tis an under-
taking most fell.” With that, the Water Sprite
vanishes. If you think you are ready to find and
contiront the pirates, turn to 382. If you are not yet
ready, you can swim towards the coral formation
that the Sprite indicated was the Kraken’s lair, Turn
to 87.

195
You now have the chest the Anemones were guard-
ing. It is too heavy to carry with you. If you openit,
turn to 83_ If you leave it and go, turn to 381.
- — a — =
— —- a ——_—_—_— ——y
a — —————— a —
SSS = — ——
—_——— >" -_ — — oe
= ae SS —ee ee — _———— SS
_ SE — a

_*

«

II ee on Ca

a

196—198

196
You swim closer, until you see a larye area of clean
white sand. Standing upright in the sand is a moss-
covered human skull. As you approach, the water
eround the skull begins to shimmer and you hear a
thin voice inside your head. What will you do:

Runaway? Turn to10
Listen to the voice? Turn to 321
Attack? Turn to 26

197
You find yourself hovering below the trapdoor once
again. If vou continue downstream, turn to 221. If
you tr¥ to get through the door, turn to 365,

198
Lf you possess a jade crown, tum to 300. If nat, tun
t0 50.
199-200

199
Greylock makes the trade, bringing outa small flask
of amber-coloured liquid. You may take this Heal-
ing Potion with you and use it at any time except
dunny a battle. It will instantly restore your
STAMINA Lo its [mitial value. Turn to 154.

200

Fortunately, you spy a weak spotin the grating. You
strain and squeeze through, though it takes all your
strength. Reduce your STAMINA to. 1. As you hurry
from the cave, you find an ordinary sword, which
you may take if you like. You swim out of the cave
and downstream, along the abyss. Turn to 148.

201-203

201
Lose 1 LUCK point for breaking your word. Turn ta
363
3 .

202

You emerge from underground in the middle of a
green ‘meadow’ of soft seaweed. The water tastes
clean and fresh here, hike mountain air. In the
distance, you can see the grey spires of the sunken
cathedral you were told about. Closer by, you see a
magnificent Sea-horse grazing on the meadow.
What will you do:

Go directly towards the cathedral?

Attack the Sea-horse?

Pick some seaweed and approach
the Sea-horse?

furn to 141
Turn &) 291

Turn &) 166

203
The flask restores 2 STAMINA points, or enough to
raise your STAMINA to 10 — whichever is higher.
Turn to 355-

204-205

204
You paddle forward, clutching for the chest, and
bump your head on the wall instead. The n ce

pulls you down into the fissure. You sink deeper
and deeper, into heat and pressure. You reach for
the necklace to try 1o get it off. Roll three dice. If the
result is less than or equal to your current STAMINA.
turn to 286. If the result is more than your curren?
STAMINA, tum to 165-

205

You take the Crab’s claw, crack ilopen ona rock and
throw it dawn, Instantly, the Octupuses swarm
over it, preedily cating the white meat. Restore =
LUCK points, If you examine the huge coral forme-
tion in the distance, turn io 87. If you go in the other
direction, turn to 382.

|

206-207

206
The Sea Snakes are all dead. You continue your
investization of the stadium seats, but find nothing
of interest. If you swim up and out of the arena, tum
tc 3- If you go down to the arena floor, turn to 304.

207

rhe Elemental wraps itself around you and hurtles
through the water. Soon you are at Fish Island. The
Elemental! circles the island until ydu spol the frolf,
iying at anchor in a small cove. ‘Goodbye, friend,’
says the Elemental. ‘Good luck in your battle,” It
vanishes. You are left floating in the water, just
below the hull of the Trai!. Turn to 47.

208-209

208
King Seamoss listens intently to your stor and
scratches his scaly head with a jewelled talon, ‘lam
minded to aid you, surface-spawn,’ he says. “But
first You must prove your heroism. Sharkspear! To
me!

A huge, armoured Deep One strides up and kneels
before the king. ‘T would see a combat,’ decrees
Seamoss. ‘Captain Sharkspear and this land-
dweller will ight. We will test their worth’ You
must fight:

SHARKSPEAR SKILL § STAMINA i2

if vou reduce Sharkspear tu: a STAMINA of 2, turn tu
yo. lf Sharkspear reduces your sTAMINA to 2, or if
you try to Escape, torn &) 185.

209

You feel a coin — but, at the same time, you feel a
pam im your hand. You quickly withdraw your
hand, to find that you have graspeda gold coin...
and a Scorpion-fish. This brightly coloured creature
has stung you wilh ils poison spines. You throw it
back into the fountain and drop the cuin into your
bag, bul now your handis beginning to throb, Ifyou
have a ring te protect you frum poison, you are
uninjured. Otherwise, the swelling in your hand
costs you 2 points oF sxiii. Turn ty 20-
210-211

210

You fight the Water Elemental. Its liquid body flows
aiway from your sword, but you can tell your blows
are affecting it. For its own part, it creates blasts of
steam and showers of ice that are a5 dangerous a5
any weapon you have ever faced.

WATER ELEMENTAL
lf you Escape, turn to 58. lf you reduce the Water
Elemental to a STAMINA of 2, it will beg for mercy.

You can Iet it live (turn to 15) or continue the battle
until you kill it (turn to 386)-

SKILL Q STAMINA 11

211

You swim into the large building, sword at the
teady. But you confront, not a monster, but a
beautiful MERMAID. You know instinctively that
she means you no harm, and put up your sword,
embarrassed. But she smiles at you anyway, saying:
“You are wise, sailor. There are many evil monsters
here in Atlantis, and a ready sword is nothing to be
ashamed of, In the windows of our cathedral I saw
that you would come here, and | came to meet you”

‘But why did Inot drown?’ you ask. She replies, “By
entering the pentagram, you came under the pro-
tection of powerful magic. You have been given a
set of gills, just like mine, Until nightfall, vou will be
able to breathe water. But don’t go to the surface
before then, unless you must! Once you breathe
Surface air, the spell will vanish regardless of the
time,”

211

Imust finda way to defeatthe pirates!’ yuu say. The

Mermaid smiles. “Defeat them you will, if you are
Strong and clever enough.” she replies. ‘Nobody
comes to Atlantis by accident. I can tell you this
much: seek out the Black Pearls! They have power-
ul magic that sill give you your best chance for
victory.

‘And, because you fight agamst great odds," she
continues, ‘I will give you a Lucky Charm.’ From
around her neck she takes a pendantin the form ofa
shell, and gives it to you. You may use this Charm
instead of Testing your Tuck. The Charm will make
you automatically Lucky, and you will not have to
spend a1ucK point. But you may use itunce ant once
oniv; then it will vanish.

The Mermaid smiles at vou, blows you a kiss, aril
vanishes through 2 window with a flip of her tail.
Looking eround the rouin, vou see nothing of great
mterest. Stairs lead upward. and a dark shaft leads
downward. Will you:

Goupward? Turn to 398
Go downward? Turn to 233
Leave the building and explore

elsewhere? ‘Turn ta 14

212-214

2i2
Your blade slices throuych the clinging tentacles, and
you pull the chest away Irom the Anemones. The
tentacles reach out towards you, but cannot quite
touch you. Turn to 195.

213

You offer the Water Sprite a gold com. It laughs and
tosses the com upward, Ihe coin spins in the water,
turns into a golden fish and darts away. The Sprite
faughs merrily and vanishes. Restore 4 points of
LUCK and leave. If you swim towards a larger coral
formation in the distance, turn to 87. If you ga in
the other direction, towards an area of rocks and
sunken timbers, hurn to 121.

214
You release the Axefish. It expands, becoming 2
metre-lony fish with a bony beak. lt swims out of the
coral and attacks the Kraken. It hits the monster's
pulpy body once, . , twice. . . and then itis caught
and eaten. Lf you do battle with the Kraken, remem-
ber that this fight has cost it 4 STAMINA points. If
you possess another Toolfish, vou can release it
(turn tu 31). If you want to try something different,

Tetum to 99.
@eSo@

215-217

When you throw Swiftstinger, you autamaitically
win that combat round; neither you nor your foe roll
dice. {Lf you are fighting several foes, the ones you
do mot attack with Swiftstinger will still make their
atlack rolls, and you must roll against them to
defend.} Swiltstinger automatically hits its target
and reduces ifs stTamINA by to. It then vanishes,
so you can use it only this once, Now return to
wherever you were,

216

The Ghost keens sadly as vou swimaway. You head
tor the square stone building that you saw from
above. Turn to 159.

217
The Statue blesses you. Restore 3 Luck paints, If
you remain in the mausoleum to look around, turn
(0 332. If vou leave, turn to 257.
218

218

Together, you and the Dolphin fight the huge
Shark. You and the Dolphin each make a separate
attack on the Shark in each Attack Round, but the
Shark must choose which of you two il will fight
Roll one die for the Shark before each turn. On an
even roll, itattacks you. Onan odd roll, ifatiacks the
Dolphin. The Shark attacks its chosen targetasina
normal battle. Against the other, even if the Shark’s
Attack Strength is greater, it will notinflicta wound.
lt is just counted as though it has defended itself
against it, However, if the Shark’s other opponent
has a higher Attack Strength, the Shark will be
wounded in the normal wav-

SKILL STAMINA
SHARK 8 15
DOLPHIN 10 9

if you Escape (whether or not the Dolphin is still
alive), turn to 72, If you kill the Shark, take one of its
huge tecth as a memento and turn to 332.

219-220

219
You fight the two Giant Crabs. Since you are far
more agile than they, you can swim circles around
them and meet them one ata time.

SKILL STAMINA
First GIANT CRAB 7 {i
second GIANT CRAB 8 10

if you try to Escape, turn to 32. If you kill them both,
turn f> g2-

220

Before you realize you have come to the end of the
tunnel, an open trapdoor appears over your head.
You find yourself in a rough-walled room, lit by a
red glow. You are facing a fearsome creature in
deed. It seems to have been assembled from the
Dones of many different creatures. Ihree legs sup-
port it; six mismatched arms reach for you with
weapons or bony fingers. Its blackened skull, {ull of
sharp shark teeth, is lit by glowing eye-sockets, On
its head is a rusty coronet containing 2 Black Pearls.
The BONE DEMON advances towards you. What
will you do:

Turn ta 168
Turn to 354
Turn to17

Attackit?

Kneel before it?

Flee back down the tunnel?
Make for the hole you can see in

the roof? Turn t0378
2a123

‘You swim downstream, letting the current help you
along. Before long you encounter a huge round
‘door set in a wall. Gripping a coral branch to steady
yourself against the current, you study the door
Strange ranes are carved on its surface. What will
you do:

Leaveand continuedownstream? ‘Turn to 262
Knock? Turn to 247
Kick the door open and burst

through? Tum to 307

Not far from the ship, you see an entrance to the
underwater gardens. You swim towards it. Tur.
toa

233
‘Yon swim towards the huge red dome on the se=-
loot. The loser you get, the bigger it looks. You
swim in through the broken roof. Inside, you finda
single great arena surrounded by tiers of benches
‘you swim down towards the floor of the arena, turn
lo 304. I you investigate the seats, turn to 283

324-235

224
A gross insult! The angry courtiers draw their
rords and attack you, Fortunately, the room is
awvded, so they must fight you singly and they
‘courtiers rather than skilled fighters. Unforts
ely, you must slay them all befare you can leave.

ist DEEP ONE “e 8

cond DEEP ONE q 6
Thied DEEP ONE 6 7
ourth DEEP ONE : 3
Lfyou stay all four, you ean dive out of the window

ibe gone. Turn 347

235
Old Greylock is full of questions, and you are nat
entirely sure you trust him, He is displaying a very
seen interest in your doings and in the things yout
sve found during your sojourn in Auantis. Sud-
denly. from a pocket of hislony robe, he produces a
wand. Ifyou decide to attack him belore hecan use
he wand, farm fo 95. If you wait and see what he
does, tam 10 376.

226-228

Your offer does not interest the Ogre at all. ‘Fat vou
soon. Take your toys then. Shut up. Get fat,” it tells
you. Return to 256 and make another choice.

227
Looking up, you see several other Mermen
approaching, their own tridents held menacingly
before them. What will you do:

Stand and fight? Turn to 281
Snatch up the fallen tident and

fight? Turn to 21
Run away? Turn to 152
Try fo talk your way out? Tur t 121

228
‘Fasily done!’ quacks the Dolphin. You cling to its
back as it arrows through the water towards your
chosen destination, Before long you arc swimming
below the hull of the Trofi as il lies at anchor. The
Dolphin wishes you luck and swims away. lum

tO 47.

/*

229-231

=25
Deade which fish you will offer the Hag, and turn
to 338.

230

Your motion encourages it. Forallits huge bulk, the
Grouper isa much faster swimmer than you. As you
try to Escape, it comes up behind and biles your
foot. Lose 2 STAMINA points and turn to 119.

231

You swim frantically for the cave mouth. It follows
you more swiftly than you could have imagined,
reaching for you wilh a talon. Roll one die and lose
that many STAMINA points. Turn to 28 and fight.

232-233

232
The Statue strikes at you with its rod of stone, and
you parry with your sword. The Statue’s tect are
rooted to its stone slab, making it very clumsy — but
itis terribly strong.

STATUE SKILL 6 STAMINA 16

If you decide to Escape, take the wound you get as
you flee and tim to 39. ifthe Statue hits you enough
umes to reduce your STAMINA to 2, hirn to 126, If
you defeat the Statue, you may leave with your
prize (turn to 257).

233
You swim down the dark tunnel. About four metres

below the level of the sea-floor, it joins a hallway. lf
you go to the nghf, turn to 245- If you ¢o to the left,
turn fo 270.
234-235

234
The path curves and branches. Ahead of you, it

opens into a neatly kept clearing. Within the clear-
ing is a very ordinary-lovking cottage surrounded
by a great iridescent bubble, Inside the bubble vou
can see ordinary land-dwelling shrubs —and evena
cat!

You swim closer and peer through the bubble into =
window of the cotlage. Inside vou can see an old
man sitting at a desk. Suddenly he becomes aware
of you and looks up. Meeting vour eye, he waves
you towards the front of the cottage. His attitude is
brisk and no-nonsense. If you swim back into the
cover of the gardens, turn to 322. Ifyou go around to
the front and meet the old man, turn to 135.

235

The Devilfish is dead. You swim around the intenor
of the building, seeing nothing unusual except the
pictures. Before long, you see another picture ol
yourself. This time, you are flecing from enormous
tentacles! If you leave the building, turn to 390. If
you would rather stay and look at more pictures,
Lurn to 367,

236-237

236

The horde of Skeletons that springs up fram the
deck is the most terrifying thing the pirates have
ever seen! A few jump overboard, bul most of them
simply fall on their knees and beg for mercy. Cap-
tain Bloodaxe roars angrily and runs to attack you,
but he is cut down by his own men. You call to your
Skeletons to hold off, and a burly pirate calls out,
‘What are your orders, Captain? We'll serve you if
you'll spare us." You consider your reply. ‘Well.’
you finally say, ‘I'm no pirate, nor do T wish to be
one. But if you'll man this ship lor me untl my
Skeletons learn the ropes, Pllshow you the same
mercy you showed me, and let youjump overboard
when we're a day trom port. I miykt even be gen-
erous and let vou have a boat.’ Cratefully, the
pirates apree,

And so it happens that, with the aid of your
Skeleton crew, you sail the pirate vessel into Port
Blacksand_ The treasure on board makes you rich —
and you have your own ship now. Your adventure
has ended successfully

237
Gecuuse the Anemones are rooted ¢o the floor, you
can Escape them without taking a wound as you go.

lurn to 381.
eSo@
238-240

238

You swim down to the deck of the Trol/and slash the
bindings holding the largest ship’s boat. It bobs to
the surface. You follow it up and get in. As you do
so, the sun sets and your gills vanish; you cannot
return to the Troll and search further. You have won
no treasure, but you destroyed the pirates. Your
adventure is over.

239
You swim frantically, and escape the whirlpool. It
slows and vanishes. You leave quickly. lf you swim
towards a larger coral formation in the distance,
turn to 87, If you go in the other direction, towards
an area of rocks and sunken timbers, turn to 121-

240
The Dolphin introduces itself. It says its name is
Keeekweeet. It also tells you that it knows someone
who might be able to help you, and offers to take
you there. You accept gladly. Vaulting on to Keeek-
weeet's back, you ride through a hidden break in
the coral reef, over a steep underwater cliff, and
down to a patch of sand between a sunken galleon
and a huge iron gate that opens into an underwater
garden. ‘Go through the gate, turn left, don’t touch
anything!’ the Dolphin chatters. ‘If you need help,
call for me.’ It arrows off and vanishes. if you
proceed through the gate, turn to 2. If you would
rather look at the sunken ship first, turn to 282.

241-243

242
You display the Silver Pearl that you found. ‘Good!’
he says. ‘The magic of that Pearl cannot be used by
you, butit will be very valuable to me. Iwill give you
2 choice of three Polions in exchange. Never fear:
you can drink them underwater.’ You accept gladly.
Which Potion do you chovse: 5

Healing Potion? Tum to 199
Potion of Fortune? turn to 285
Potion of Vaporous Essence? Tum ta 318

242

‘Th exchange for a Black Pearl,’ it savs, ‘1 will give
you a crystal! of ice that will last for ever without
melting. With this crystal, you can call upon me
once. I will hear your summons, and bear you fram
2n¥ place tn the world's waters to any other place. If
you agree to exchange a Black Pearl for this iter,
turn to 275. If you would rather keep your Black
Pearl, tur to 85.

243
Do you possess two gold coins? If you do, turn to
157. If not, you cannot summon the Sea Dragon.
Return to 47 and make another choice.
244-245

244
You find yourself facing a man-sized fish — aor

perhaps it is a very fishy-looking man - in a tall
plumed hat. He stamps a booted foot, salutes you
with his rapier, and moves towards vou. What will
you do:

Attack him? Turn to 79
Ask him what is going on here? Turn to 335
Sit down and hope this illusion

will vanish? Turn to 299

245

You pick your way through clinging, slimy sea-
weed. A dim light comes from some of the ocean
plants, so you can see a little way ahead. The hinnel
walls change to jagged rock as you go on, and the
tunnel seems to slant slightly downward. Just as
you are thinking thatit will goon forever, you come
to a heavy wooden door. You pull it open and swim
through. You have emerged from the face of a cliff!
The door swings closed behind you. You panic for a
second, until you realize that you cannot fall. Hang-
ing suspended in the clear water, you loak about
you. Turn to 53.
246-249

246
You stab the Grouper with your aaa lt jerksin
surprise, Instead of pressing the attack, it flees,
taking the harpoon with it, Turn to 340.

247
You knock politely on the door. A high, scratchy
voice tells you ‘Begone!’ The runes on the door flash
red, and a pain shoots through your head. Lose 1
STAMINA paint. What will you do:

Knock again? Turn to153
Leave and goon downstream? Turn to0162
Force your way inside? Turn to 307

248
Itis a spiral, and shrinks to fit your own finger. As
you slip iton, you feel stronger. Restore 2 points to
Yur STAMINA, and raise your Initial STAMINA score
by 2. You leaye the Ogre’s cave and swim doun-
stream along the abyss, going slowly upward. Turn
to 148.

249
You manage to shake the Crabs off, Quickly, you
leave the building and the area. Turn to 389.

250~251

250
The poison of the Octopus is very strong. Your
magic ring vanishes, and you still lose 2 STAMINA
points. Lf you are still alive, you also find that the
little Octopuses have robbed you! Lose one Pro-
vision and any one item from your bag. lf you
cxamine the huge coral formation in the distance,
turn to 87. If vou go m the other direction, tum
te? 382.

£

;

251
You swim down towards the blue glow. It brightens
until you can see clearly. You peer through an open
door and see a little old MERMAN standing overa
work-bench. He issawing ata piece of wood, but his
saw is a silvery Sawfish. Other fish-tools hang on
the walls, and the blue glow comes from a brilliant
Ghowvfish that hovers over his head. If you dive
through and attack the old Merman, turn to 25. If
you talk to him, turn to 57-
252-253

252
Fortunately, your feet were firmly planted, and you
were not drawn into the heart of the whirlpool. Test
your Lick once again. Ifyou are Lucky, turn to 239. If
you are Unlucky, turn to 144.

253
The Kraken makes every other monster you have
ever seen look puny. Your only hope comes from
the fact that it is not used to opponents as ny as
YOu,

“

KRAKEN

If you try to Escape, turn to 309. If you kill the
Kraken, turn to 125-

SKILI. 10 STAMINA 30

—= é

254-255

254

You attack the Sea Hag with your sword. She
dodges and hurls curses, waving her withered
hands at you. You feel the impact of evil magic.
When you fight the Sea Hag, roll one die each time
she wins an Attack Round. Ona roll of t or 2, you
lose 2 points of STAMINA in the normal way. Ona
roll of 3 or 4, you lose 1 point of sKILL instead, and
on a roll of 5 or 6, you lose 2 points of Luck. You can
use your Own LUCK to increase the effects of your
attacks on her, but you may mof use LUCK to decrease
the effects of her curses against you!

SEA HAG STAMINA 8

if you try to Escape, turn to 368-_ If you kill the Sea
Hag. turn to 56.

SkInL &

255
You find nothing else of interest among the shat-
tered bones. If you go back down to the Elemental
and give it a Pearl, turn to 351. If you forget about
your promise and go upward instead, turn to 201.

256

256

The SEA OGRE's great hands close about you.
Your struggles are useless against its tremendous
strength. Ittows you down to the cave, drags vau ta
the very back and clouts you on the head! Before
you can recover, it has fastened a lattice-work of
bars over the back of the caye, imprisoning you
there. ‘Eat,’ it tells you, throwing in a piece of fish,
‘Get fat. You be dinner soon.’ You can eat the fish (it
restores 4 STAMINA points) or put it in your bag as
one Provision. What will you do now:

Use the Potion of ¥Va porous

Essence (if you have it)? Turn to 143
Shout insults and challenge the

Ogre to a fair fight? Turn to 109
Offer the Oure a bribe to release

you? Turn to 226
Wait and hope the Ogre goes

away? Turn to 77

257-258

257
As you are leaving, you notice a huge trapdoor in
the floor. The handle is a bronze ring half a metre
across! If you try to open it, turn to go. If you leave
the mausoleum, turn to 23.

258

You fumble in your leather bag and remove the
Glowfish. When you release it in the water, it ex
pands into a long, blue-glowing creature. It swims
obediently around over your head, lighting up the
surroundings. You sec that you are in a large coral
grotto with a moderately strong current running
through it. What svill you do:

Swim upstream? Turn to 384
Swim downstream? Turn to222
Try ta open the trapdoor and

escape? Turn to 365

259-260

259

You swim away as quickly as you can. Not faraway
you sé€¢ a small building with only one entrance. . -
@ door too smail for the Dolphin to pass through.
You enterand look around. The first thing you see is
a large, dark opening in the floor. It appears to be
the mouth of a pipe. Despite your best efforts, you
are sucked down into the darkness. Turn to 104,

260

You swim upward. It is quite a long way! As you
swim, the water grows visibly lighter. You realize
that the top of the cliff is a coral reef that actually
breaks the surface. If you turn around and swim
back towards the sunken city, tum to 64. If yon pull
yourself up on the coral reef and see what you can
hind, turn to 379.
261-262

261

You tell Greylock that you would like to avoid the
Sea Dragon. ‘Stay away from dark places, then,” is
his reply. He takes you to the back room of his
cottage and opens a trapdoor. ‘Go quickly, and
fortune be with you!’ You lower yourself into the
tunnel. Once again you feel the tingling a5 you pass
through his magic bubble; then you are breathing
water onée again. It is dark, but the wizard gestures
with his wand and a Glowfish appears, swimming
beside you to light your way. The door closes and
the current carries you dawnstream. Turn to 96.

afo@

262

The Elemental wraps itself around you and huriles
through the water. Soon you are at Pirate Cove. The
Elemental circles the island, but you see no pirate
ships. ‘Tam sorry, my friend,” the Elemental fells
you, ‘but | have performed my service and I must
leave.’ It vanishes. You swim ashore, feeling your
gills vanish as you break the surface. You are
marooned on a desolate island. Perhaps in the
morning you will find a way to get back home. For
now, your adventure is over.

263-264

263
You feel a thrill of magic, The dagger’s handle is
marked with runes reading Swiftstinger. It is
obviously meant to be thrown. If you use Swift-
stinger in a combat, turn to 215 to learn its effects.
Make a note of that number; do not read it until you
decide to use Swiftstinger against a foe. (When you
turn to 215, you should also make a note of the
Paragraph you are currently reading, so that you
can return there.) You have no living foes at the
moment, so you cannot use Swiftstinger now. Turn

264
You release the Sawfish_ It turns into a large fish
with 2 heavy, toothed bill. Obediently, it swims
towards the ship and begins to saw at the planks —
but it can make no headway on the smooth surface,
itswims away, defeated. Tum to 188, if you want tu
try another Toolfish; or turn to 47, if you want to try
another tactic entirely-

265-266

265

A rustle of excitement stirs the court. The king is
very impressed. “The Great Crown of Adantis! We
thought it lost to the Mermen!’ He consults with an
adviser. Soon a serving-tray is brought, with hwo
jewelled arm-bracelets upon it. “Take these with
our thanks, surface-dweller. These bracelets are
magical. ‘They will not weigh down your arms,
but will increase your prowess.° While you wear
them, your Attack Strength is increased by 2.
‘Now,’ the king asks, ‘is there any way we can help
you on your guest?’ Turn to 296,

266

‘The sauna baths are luxurious indeed. After a few
minutes of relaxation, you feel much better. . - but
somicw hat strange. As you leave, you catch sight of
yourself in the mirror. The Merman was not ex-
aggerating: the baths did make a new persan of you!
Tum to the beginning of this book and re-roll your
STAMINA, SKILL and LUcK (Make a note of this
paragraph number — 266 — so you can return here
When you finish.) Change all your current scores to
these new Initial scores. You decide to leave the
friendly Mermen before something even stranger
happens. Turn to 138.

267-268

267
If vou want to take a lesson, turn to 22. If you
decline, saying there must have been some mistake,
turn fo 317-

268
You pull your sword from the body af the Sea
Spider. If you have not already done so, you take a
second to slice the giant Clam open and free your
foot. Within the opened Clam, you see a large Silver
Pearl. You take itand move on. Where will you sz0:

The captain's cabin Turn to 40
The treasure-hold Turn to 192
Away from the ship, towards the

Turn te 2

gardens
269

269
You approach the sunken cathedraland circle it. Lis -
2 huge, Gothic stnicture, complete with gargoyles
on the roof. You swim through the front doors and
into the great hall. Your attention is immediately
caught by the vast stained-glass windows lining the
hall. They depict many sorts oF scenes — some
underwater, some on land and some so odd that
you cannot identify them. The cunous thing about
tne windows ts this: although the scenes do not
mave, they change. Whenever vou look away froma
window, it is different when you look back! As you
look back and forth, you see a picture of yourself in
one window, as you were being forced overboard
from the pirate ship. A moment later, in another
window, vou see the same pirate ship from above,
being eaten by a giant fish! Na... as you lpak
closer, you see the ‘fish’ is anisland, and the ship is
anchored in 2 cove that forms the fish’s mouth.
What will you do now:

Keep watching the miraculous

windows? Turn to 37
Look around the cathedral? Turi to 339
Leave the cathedral? Turn to 390
270-271

270
The left tunnel leads slightly upward; glowing algae
on the brick walls help you see where you are going.
As you swim along, the algac set dimmer and
dimmer. By the time you come to a door. you can
barcly see, Opening the door, you are confronted
with the horror of two glowing SKELETONS. If
you fight them, turn to 75. If you would rather get
away from here, turn to 295.

272
The trapdoor opens. Instantly, a whirlpool forms
and sucks you down to the darkness below. Torn
lo 12.

272-273

272
You stim past most of the creatures, buta few block
your way and surround you. You mus! light them.
Treat these BLOODWORMS as a single foe:

SLOODWORMS SKILL 6 STAMINA 6

You cannot Escape. If you destroy this small group
of Bloodworms, turn to 170.

273

The Dolphin is glad to break olf the light. [tlets you
go without a parting blow, so you do mot suffer a
wound m Escaping, lt swims away, seeming to
shake its head as it goes. Blood fills the water.
Suddenly, a sixth sense warns you Lo turn around.
4 huge sand-coloured SHARK, drawn by the blood
in the water, is attacking you! You realize that there
is NO way you can Escape this monster; you will
have to ight. You do not have time to eat Provisions
or use Potions before this battle besins.

SHARK
if you kill the Shark, tum to 370.

skint § STAMINA 15

i  ———————

274

he

You created two Skeletons. The brigands scatter as
¥our undead servants attack. Many flee, and the
survivors are decimated before the Skeletons fall.
You ate left with five vpponents: four pirates anc
Captain Bloodaxe himself, You must fight them two
ata time, starting with the first two. You must ight
both at once. Each pirate will have 2 separate attack
on you in each Attack Round, but you must choose
which of the two you will ight. Attack your chosen
pirate as in a normal batile. Against the other, even
ii your Attack Strength is greater, you will not
wound him. You mustjust count this as though you
have defended yourself against him. However, if
his Attack Strength is greater, he will have wound-
ect you in the normal way. When vou slay one, tx
next tekes tits place, su you will always have two foes
belore you until there are none leftin reserve

SKILL STAMINA

First PIRATE o3 23
Second PIRATE ) 9
Third PIRALE § i4
Pourth PIRATE 9 12
CAPTAIN BLOODAXE 13 i2

You cannot Escape. if you kill all the pirates, turn

to 18g.

2975-276

275
You hand it a Pearl. ’Free at Jast! it shouts. ‘Now I

can get my revenge for this captivity!’ ‘lhe steam on
the room's floor rises upwards, melting the ice on
the ceiling. A dark hole is revealed. [he Elemental
presents vou with the crystal it had promised you.
Then it darts away, through the hole in the ceiling.
Almost instantly, you hear the sounds of battle.
Finally silence comes. If you go up and see what
happened, turn to 310. If you would rather return
the way you came, turn to 42.

276

The tunnel rises, and reaches the sea-floor in the
midst of a cluster of huge seaweed trees. The
Glowlish swims away, its job done. You step out
trom between the trees and look around. You see a
neatly kept clearing. Within the clearing is a very
ordinary-looking cottage surrounded by a great
iidescent bubble. Inside the bubble you can see
ordinary land-dwelling shrubs - and even a cal!

You swim closer and peer through the bubble into a
window of the cottage. Inside you can see an old
man sitting at a desk. Suddenly he becomes aware
of you and looks up. Meeting your eye, he waves
you towards the front of the cottage. His attitude is
brisk and no-nonsense. If you swim back into the
corer of the trees, turn to 322. If you go around to
the frontand meet the old man, firn to 135.
277-278

277

You have slain the Sea Dragon—a feat worthy of the
greatest hero. Night is falling fast, and you know
your spell is about to expire. Quickly, you snatch up
a handiul of gold from the pile of treasure and swim
to the surface. As your head breaks water, the sun
sets. You feel the magical gills vanish — but you no
longer need them, Your timing was perfect!

One of the Trell’s boats is bobbing about on the
surface. You climb in, make everything shipshape
and set course for Port Blacksand. You have de-
strayed the pirates, and won a few bits of treasure
for yourself, Your adventure is over.

278

You open the bottle and drink. The Potion of Yapor-
ous Essence dissolves you and all your possessions.
You drift through the chinks in the coral wall and
out of the other side. Soon you become solid azain,
out of the Kraken’s view. Turn to 382.

279-281

279

The Elemental wraps itself around you and hurtles
through the sea. It releases you on a sandy beach,
just as the sun sinks. You thank the Elemental and
watch it leave. Then you leaye the water, feeling
your gills vanish as you do. You creep up the beach,
towards the sounds of revelry. Unfortunately, you
have found the wrong pirate camp! Not one ship-
load of pirates, but several, are carousing here, As
vou realize your mistake, the pirates see you. They
welcome you in 2 fashion even less pleasant than
Captain Bloodaxe’s. Your adventure is over.

280

As the Grouper eyes you, you sheathe your sword
2nd hett the harpoon. The Grouper rushes towards
you. its mouth open wide. You dodge skilfully and
stab at it with the harpoon. Roll two dice. If the
result is less than or equal to your current SKILI,
turn to 246. It the result is ereater than your aaa
SKILL, turn to 375-

2h
You place your back to the wall and swing your
sword. You cut down several of the attacking Mer-
men, bul two come to take the place of cach one you
Kill. Eventually, a sharp trident finds your heart.
Your journey is over.
282-283

282

You approach the sunken ship. The masts are still
tall and straight, and a few rags of sail are still
waving in the current. . . but a great hole has been
torn in one side. You can see movement inside.
Something indistinct, but large, is making its home
there. If you investigate, turn to 24. If you go
elsewhere, turn to 222.

-

283

the arena seats are long, cold marble benches. A
current of water keeps them fairly clean. In the
darkness undera bench, you see something gleam-
ing. Cautiously, vou probe with your sword. Itisa
SEA SNAKE! Indeed, there are several of them,
regarding rou with lidless gazes. If you try to kill
them, turn to 122. If you swim up and leave the
dome, turn to 3.
284—286

284
The king dismisses you abruptly, and the guards
stize you and escort you roughly out of the roral
Presence. Lose 2 Luck points for your lack of chiv-
alry. The guards toss you out of the front door, Tum
tO 347.

285
Gruylock accepts the Pearl_In return, he brings outa
triangtuar bottle fall of sreen liquid. You may take
this Potion of Fortune with vou and drink it al an
time except during a battle. It will raise your Initial
LUCK score by one, and raise your current LucK
score lo that new Into! yalue. Turn to 154.

286
Exerting all your strength, you manage to snap the
chain of the cursed necklace. lt falls down into the
depths, You struggle back to the Hag’s room. Lose 2
STAMINA points, If you are still alive, you leave
quickly. Jurn to 162.

287-288

287

‘What do I care about pirates?’ it replies. ‘They sink
ships, and are sunk themselves, to bring more
treasure into the sea for me. H every human was a
pirate, if would be all the same to me.’ It ends its
speech with a snap of its great jaws and moves
delicately in your direction, The gleam in its eyes
looks very much like hunger. Turn to 28 and fight.

288
You call the Dolphin’s name and it appears quickly.
You explain that you need to be taken to a nearby
island. The Dolphin assents, Where will you ask to
be taken:

Theisland of the pirates? Turn to177
The fish-shaped island? Turn to 228
The skull-shaped island? Turn t0156
Captain Bloodaxe’s island? Turn to377
289-291

289
You will keep your prize or die fighting for it! "You
are foolish, but brave,’ rumbles the Statue. Return
lo 232 and fight to the finish.

=

290
You whip out your sword and fight. There are
dozens of the small Octopuses. You drive them
away, but not before one bites you. Test your Luck, lf
you are Lucky, turn to 353. If you are Unlucky, turn
to 82.

291
AS soon as you draw your sword, it flees. You sce
that you have no hope of catching the wary crea-
ture, Lose 2 LUck points and turn Lo 65.

292-293

292
Your clinking produces no result, so you try again.
there is still no answer, The sun dips lower, and
yourealize you have forgotten the proper call for the
Sea Dragon. Lose 2 tuck points. Return to 47 and
try something else.

293

Swimming your fastest, you dart into the branches
of @ great seaweed tree. It works! The Lionfish
swims angrily round and round the base, roaring
mightily, but it cannot or will not pursue you up
the tree, Restore 2 LUCK points. Eventually, the
Lionfish swims away, baffled. You continue down
the path. Turn t) 234.

294-296

294
The DEVILFISH attacks by lashing with its long
barbed tail.

DEVILFISH SKILL 8 STAMINA 13

If vou try to Escape, turn to 117. If you kill the
Devilfish, turn to 235-

295
You flee madly through the glowing tunnels. Soon
you come to the intersection of vertical and honzon-
tal shafts. lf you want to explore the tunnel in the
other direction, turn to 245. If you would prefer to
swim back up and out of the building, turn to 16,

296

You explam that you seek ty destroy Captain
Bloodaxe and his pirate crew. The Deep Ones agree
that this would be a fine thing. They even know of
the island where the pirates stay. They don’t know
what the surface-dwellers call it, but it is shaped
somewhat like a fish, and the pirates anchor in a
cove that forms the mouth of the fish. You thank
them and leave. Turn to 347.
297-298

2

Looking more closely at dl Sea Anemones, you see
that ceriain small fish live among their tentacles
without being harmed, while others stay dear. As
you watch, a large fish tries to catch one of the small
fish and is itself caught. The fragile pink tentacles
Wrap around it and sting it. The fish dies almost
instantly and is pulled slowly towards the mouth of
the Anemone,

ith new respect, you back away from the Anc
mones. Then you notice the bones of a humanoid
hand beneath the base of the biggest one. Looking
closely, you see the entire skeleton of a Merman. as
well as a smal] wooden chest. This Ancmone has
caught more than just fish! What will vou do:

Leaye the house?

Reach for the chest?

Drag the chest oul with your
sword? Tum ta 325

Attack the Anemones? Turn to 93

Turn to 381
Tum to19

The Giant Crabs snap up the food, but keep coming
towards you, clicking their claws hungrily. Mark off
two lost Provisions. If you flee fom the Crabs, turn
to 32. Li you light them, turn to 219.

299-300
299

The swashbuckling fish stamps his foot again and

tweaks your nose with his rapier. Lose 1 LucK point.
If you attack him for his impertinence, tum to 79. IF

you demand an explanation, turn to 335-

-_ <<

300

The Dolphin squeaks back at you, and you find that
vou can understand its high-pitched chattering. It
tells you that it is glad to see humans around, asks
you why vou don’t drown, comments on your
sword and asks whether you have seen any tasty-
looking fish. You are hard put ta answer it, because
if talks so fast. Lhen it interrupts you again, saying,
‘Look out! A SHARK! We wall fight it together! It
darts off to the left. Indeed, you see that a huge
sand-coloured Shark is cruising towards you. Ifyou
join the Dolphin in fighting the Shark, turn to 218. If
you retire from the scene and let them fight it out,
hrm to 72.
301-304

301
You free yourself and swim away. As you leave, you
realize that the Octopuses have stolen one posses-
sion {your choice) from your bag. If you examine the
huge coral formation in the distance, turn to 87. If
you go in the other direction, turn to 382.

302
You swim towards the cathedral. Restore 2 tuck
points for befriending the Sea-horse. Turn to 65.

393
Just as it promised, the Water Elemental will carry
youanywhere you ask. If you wish to be taken to the
pirate ship, tur to 167- If you do not feel you can
defeat the pirates, you can ask to be taken to your
home port (turn to 205).

3594
Abandoned on the arena floor you find a harpoon.

You can add it to your possessions if you like. The
arena seems even more huge as you drift to the floor
and look about you; you can imagine the combats
and spectacles that must have been held here. But
the huge stadium is empty now, What will you do:

Leave the way you entered? Turn to3
Swim towards the ground-level

exits? Turn to 161
Investigate the seats (if you have

not done so already)? Turn to 283

305-306

395

You tell about your search for the pirates who tned
to kill vou. it listens with sympathy. ‘T cannot travel
with you,” it says, ‘because my duty is to care far the
fish around my reef. But you stopped to admire my
fish, and you spoke to me politely, so | will help
vou.” [f you ask it for luck, turn to 44. If you ask for
advice, turn tu 194.

306

You release the Axefish, and it grows quickly into a
metre-long creature with a heavy horned beak. It
swims to the [roils hull and begins to chop at the
bottom, but the oaken planks resist it, Hearing the
noise, Gyo pirates jump over the side to investigate.
Thee see you and swim towards you, knives ready.
The Axefish, alarmed, swims away. You must fight
the pirates. Fortunately, they are clumsy in the
water, while rou can fight as skilfully as you ever
did on land. Fight them one at a time:

SKILL STAMINA
First PIRATE 5 10
Second PIRATE 6 if

You do not try to Escape, because you are so close to
your goal_ If you kill the pirates, turn to 188 if you
syant to try another Toolfish, or turn ta 47 if yuu
want to try another tactic entirely.

ang
397-309

Mieaa: a 397
You crash through the heavy door. The room is lit

‘ ‘
| by a reddish glow. Facing you isa wizened ald SEA
} | HAG. Her warty face is twisted in anger and her
[8 hand is upraised to cast a curse at you. What will
a! ea?) you do:
iF Kee Offer hera gift? Turn to5
Ss Flee? Turn to 368

f y | Attack her? Turn to 254
‘ - ; 2h ? “ss Fe
j + * . oA os

- — "

asa

crgter

308
The Elemental wraps itself around you and hurtles
through the water. lt travels back and forth, and
finally pauses, confused. “There is ne such island as
that! I cannot let you drown, so | will take-you to
your port instead_" You cannot argue. Turn &) 105.

ee

43-53

C
e

309
Swimming as fast as you can, you dart for open
water . . . to no avail. A tentacle wraps about you
and draws you to the huge beak. You are only a
morsel to the Kraken. Yourj journey is over.

310-311

310
Cautiously, you inch up the narrow tunnel. You
emerge into another roam, which is somewhat
larger than the Elemental‘s chamber. The room is a
wreck; old bones and broken weapons are every-
Where, There is no sign of the Elemental or af the
demon that it said it would fight, Within a smashed
skull you find 2 Black Pearls. In the ceiling, you see
another tunnel leading up. If you follow it upward,
turn to 361. If you go back down through the
Elemental’s chamber and the coral grotto, turn to

42.

311

You are curious and swim towards the creatures.
They are large worms, blood-red in colour and
as thick as your arm. Though they have no eves,
they sense your presence and move towards you,
toothed mouths agape. You must fight them.
Treat the whole colony of BLOODWORMS as a
single foc:

BLOODWORMS = sxr1.6

If you try to Escape, turn to 272. If you destray the
Bloodworms, turn te 33-

STAMINA 23

we Se
ai ie ~
Fell

+

312-314

Pes

312
You step across the fissure- and bump your nose on
2 rough rock wall! The chest was an illusion; there is
nothing there atall. You rub your nose and leave the
room. Turn to 162.

333
You create a single Skeleton. it scuttles toward the
pirates, its rusty sword at the ready. They are fright-
ened . . - but itis only a single opponent and they
quickly defeat it. You draw your own sword, but to
no avail. The pirates swarm over you, their cutlasses
flashing. Your adventure is over.

344
Fight the clump of Anemones asa single opponent:
ANEMONES SKILL 7 STAMINA [4

If you decide to Escape, turn to 237- If you kill the
Anemones, furn to 195.
315-317

315

You clink the gold coins together as you were told to
do, and swim to the sea-bottom to watch. Within a
few minutes, you see the huge bulk of the Sea
Dragon. It swims straight to the Troll. With a few
swipes of its mighty claws it tears out the ship's
bottom. The Troll sinks like a stone, and the greedy
Dragon wreaks havoc among the swimming pi-
rates. As you watch, the Dragon opens the ship‘s
hold and gathers all the gold into a pile. Then you
hear its deep voice calling you. ‘Human! The ship is
destroyed. Come out and receive my thanks" Ifyou
go to the Drazon, turn to 36, If you stay in hiding,
turn to 140.

316
He offers you your choice of four useful fish: a
Sawfish, an Axefish, a Borerfish, and a Glowtfish
like the one overhead. These are the only fish that
he has to spare, and he has only one of each to offer
you. You pay him for your choice(s), then leave
{turn to 150).

347
‘Zounds!’ he cries. ‘Cyrano never makes a mistake!
You may think you are a good swordsman, but you
will be better after a lesson from Cyrano!’ If you pay
for a lesson, turn to 22. If you fight him in earnest,
turn to 79.

318-319

318

Greylock takes the Pearl from you, and brings outa
small phial of ruby-colowred liquid. “This is the
Potton of Vaporous Essence,” he tells you. This very
rare and valuable. Use itonly ina lime of great need.
When you drink it, your body, as well as your
clothing and possessions, will turn into a thin mist
thatcan float through the smallesterack. After a few
minutes, you become solid again.’ You thank
Greylock. Tum to 154.

319
Roll one die again, and lose that many more points
of SramiNna. If vou are still alive, you break away
and kick madly towards open water! Whalever is in
that building, vow decide, the Crabs are welcame &>
keep it. Turn to 389.

320-321

320

You search the face of the cliff for more secret doors
like the one from which you emerged, You find no
doors, but you do see a cavern big enouh to admit
you. You swim closer — and draw back from the
snapping jaws ofa huge MORAY EEL. If you enter
the cave and attack with your sword, turn to 98. If
you flee, turn to 112.

321
the shimmering water forms into a vague human
shape, as the voice inside your head tells a sad story.
this GHOST was once a sea-captain, slain by
treachery when his crew mutinied, He was eaten by
lish and his bones were scattered, su he cannot find
test. He asks if vou will gather his bones and give
him a decent burial. If you help him, turn to 101. Lf
nol, turn to 226.
342=343

322
You flee through the trees of seaweed. It is almost
completely dark. Soon you come to a deep chasm
which seems to form one boundary of the forest.
You cannol see very lar into its depths, but you can
ice! the cold current that rashes through it. If you
swim across the chasm to a small, ruined house on
the other side, turn to.172. Ifyou explore the depths,
tum to 6.

323
You take the Sawfish from your leather pouch and

release it. Ll prows to a large fish with a toothed bill.
It switns up te the trapdoor and works at it, but its
blade is useless against the flat surface. After a few
minutes, it sives up and swims away, vanishing in
the shadows. What will you do now:

Try the Axefish (if you possessif}? Tum ta134
Use your sword? Turn to 74
Go downstream? Tum to 221
Go upstream (if you have not

done so already)? Tum to 384

324-326

324
You take the Glowfish out of your pack and release
it. It srows in size and swims above you, shedding a
blue light. You swim down, examining the steep
walls of the abyss. At this depth, you see many
stange fish and weird marine growths. Finally,
delow you, you see a light. You swim towards it
until you can make out a cave opening. In front of it
are a rude table and bench.

suddenly, your Glowtish darts away in fright and
vanishes in the distance. You look around to see
what frightened it. It is a huge SEA OGRE, twice
the size of a man. Its huge webbed hands are
reaching for you. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 52. if you are Unlucky, turn to 256.

325
You probe with your sword. The pink tentacles
erope blindly. When they touch the sword, they
quiver and then stiffen. The Anemones are angered
by the touch of metal! The tentacles wrap around
your blade. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to
212. If you are Unlucky, turn to 349.

326

_ Searching the body of the Merman, you find a single

Slack Pearl, which you drop in your bag. His only
other possession of interest is the sharp trident, If
you take it, turn to 21. If you leave it, turn to 227.
327-329

377
You hald out your empty hands peacefully. The
misty Water Elemental lowers its own hand and
asks your business. You tell your story. The
Elemental is sympathetic, but cannot help you. ‘1
am a prisoner here, held by the enchantment of the
Bone Demon,’ itexplains. ‘I may not leave this room
without a Black Pearl; only that will break the spell
li you have such a Pearl, fur to 115- If not, turn to

187.
aGoq@

328
Investigating the shattered Skeletons, you sce tha!
each one had eyes of Black Pearl. You drop the ¢
Black Pearls into your bag and continue searching.
In one comer of the room isa rusty metal box. lf you
prise the box open, turn to 357- If you ignore it and
leaye the roam, turn to 374.

329
The Merman reacts quickly, throwing his own
Sawfish at you. While you are fighting it, he
escapes. Tight the Sawiish:

SAWFISH

If you Escape, turn to 150. If you kill the Sawtish,
turn to 88.

SKILL 8 STAMINA 10

339-332

330
You pick up the sword, and a shiver runs through
your arm. [tis cursed, but very puwerful forall that.
Your initial LucK score is now reduced by 1, but
your Attack Strength will be raised by 1 whenever
you use this weapon. Tum to 255.

331
Brushing away sand and shells, you find a huge
trapdoor on the floor. A bronze ring fully half a
metre across serves as the handle. If you try toopen
it, turn to go. If vou would rather just leave the
mausolcum, turn to 23.

332
if you have the jade crown and the Dolphin is still
alive, turn to 2go. If you don’t have the crown, but
the Dolphin is still alive, turn to 152. [f the Dolphin
is dead, tum to 350.
333-334

333
As you approach, you see that these are not true

humans, but DEEP ONES. Their skin is green and
warty, their eyes huge and frog-like. They have
gills, webbed fingers and huge claws. They wear
jewelled armour. You must fight one and then the
other-

SKILL STAMINA
First DEEP ONE re) 10
Second DEEP ONE 7 12

¢

If vou Escape, turn to 347. Lf you win, turn to 136.

334
You tell it of your misfortunes and your desire to

return to your home. it does not reply, but chuckles
deep inits throat and yawns. A snaky tongue, as big
a3 2 rope, flicks out to taste the water near you. Tt
mises and moves delicately toward you, and you
realize that you are of interest to it only as a snack.
Turn to 28.
335-336

333

The strange ‘swordsman’ introduces himself as
Cyrano the Swordfish. ‘I am the greatest sword-
master of all the oceans!’ he says grandiloquently

‘You must have been sent here for lessons. My fee is
1 Black Pearl, or 2 Gold Pieces. Everyone is the
better for a lesson from Cyrano.“ Tf vou do not haves
Black Pearl er 2 Gold Pieces, turn to 137- If you have
the price (whether or not you want to pay it}, Lum to

267.

336

A wound from a tiny Octopus is very dangerous.
Lose 6 STAMINA points. Ifyou are stillahve, yaualso
find that the little Octopuses have robbed you! Lose
one Provision and any one item from your bay. 1
you examine the huge coral formation in the dis-
tance, turn to 87. If you go in the other direction.
turn Lo 382.

337-339

337
There is no answer. Perhaps he cannot hear you.
Lose I LUCK point. Return to 77 and make another
choice.

338
she looks at your offering with contempt — then
pops it into her mouth and eats it! She cackles
gleefully. “Not bad, mortal — but your flesh would
wi sweeter! She attacks you. Turn to 254 and fight
eT.

C 339
itis a huge building. The coral and seaweed grow-

ing everywhere only add to its beauty. If you would
like to investigate the towers where you saw the

sergoyles, turn to 146. lf you would rather explore

the interior further, turn to rot.

349

340
You swim between the huge bronze doors and enter
the stone building. The interior, like the exterior, is
solid, grey and overgrown with coral. Huge stone
crypts line the walls, each with its own statue. Some
of the statues are human, while some have tishy
features, but all are proud, noble and much the
worse for wear. You try to read the inscriptions on
the crypts, but they are in a script which is strange to
you,

At the far end of the mausoleum you see one statue
in somewhat better repair than the others. In ils
right hand il bears a huge rod, and on tis head ise
crown. As you approach, you sec that the crown is
made of green jade, elaborately carved in the form
of a chain of leaping dolphins. It is not part of the
statuc, butis a separate carving. lf you lift the cown
from the statue's head, turn to 22. If you leave the
crown where it is and search the mausoleum for
other things of interest, turn to 332-

341

342
You paddle over tw the brick building. It is in very
poor repair; one wall is completely down, and the
others are cracked and ragged. You enter cautious-
ly. there are no other Giant Crabs, but there are
hordes of smaller ones, from the size of a dinner-
plate on down, They watch you with their stalked
eyes, Waving their claws menacinyly, as you in-
vestigate their home. Suddenly you feel a pain in

your leg, One Crab, braverthan the rest, has nippecl

you severely! You smash it with your sword, but it
has stil cost you + stamina point. If vou search
further, turn to'8. Lf you leave, turn to 389.

342-343

342
You release the Sawfish. lt expands, becoming a
metre-long fish with a saw-toothed bill. It darts out
of the coral and attacks the Kraken. The Kraken
lashes frantically at it, but the Sawfish’s bill cuts aff
the first tentacle that reaches for it! The battle rages
furiously. At last, all is quiet. There is no sign of
your Sawfish, but the Kraken is gravely wounded. It
has lost two tentacles, and several more are gashed.
If you do battle with the Kraken, remember that this
fight has cost it 10 STAMINA points and 2 SKILL
points! [f you possess another Toolfish, you can
release it (turn to 31). If you want to try something
different, return to 99.

343
The Elemental is overjoyed by your gift. “Free at

last!’ it Shouts. “Now I can get my revenge for this
caplivity!’ The steam on the room’s floor nses up
and melts the ice on the ceiling. A dark hole is
revealed, Ihe Elemental blesses you; increase your
Inttud LUCK score by 1, and raise your LUCK to its
new maximum. lt also presents you sith a shining
bit of ice. “This crystal will not melt,’ it tells you.
‘You can use il to call upon me once. | will hear your
summons and bear you from any place in the
world’s waters to any other place.” Then it darts
away, through the hole in the ceiling. Almast in-
Stantly, you hear the sounds of battle. Finally si-
lence comes, IF you go up and see what happened,
turn to 310. If you would rather return the way you
came, turn to 42.

344-345

344
Carefully, you stow the bottle in your leather bay.
Bidding the Ghost farewell, you swim away in the
direction of the large stone building you saw earlier.
Tum to 159.

5
As you thread your way through the narrow tunnel,
you are cut again. Lose I more STAMINA point. ‘The
current is strong, and you are fighting it every bit of
the way. Abruptiy, the tunnel opens into a small
cubical room with walls that look like polished
stone. Turn to 372.
346

346

staying back from the unnatural glow, you turn a
corner and head down a darker comdor, The mud
on the floor is growing thicker. You sce something
gleaming on the floor. Swimming down, you pick it
up and find that itisa bone. . . frorma human arm,
You turn to leave, but your path is blocked. A dark
figure has emerged from the mud and is standing
sihouctted in the doorway. It is a caricature of a
woman, formed out of mud. Oozing arms reach out
for you. You must fight it.

MUCK DEMON SKILL § STAMINA 8

The Muck Demon is clumsy, but she has power over
the slime and silt on the floor. It rises in a great
cloud, choking and blinding you. For this battle,
subtract 5 from your Attack Strength on each round.
If you Escape, turn to 41. If you destroy the Muck
Demon, turn to 366.
347-349

347
You leave the palace of the Deep Ones. To your

right is the great sunken ship you saw earlier; to
yourleftis an entrance to the sunken gardens. If rou
investigate the ship, tum to 282. if you would rather
look through the gardens, turn to 2.

345
Your foot falls centimetres away from a huge
CLAM, which closes with a clashing sound. What

will you do:

Kill the Clam with your sword? Turn to 97

Look for the captain's cabin? Turn to 40

Look for the treasure-hold? Turn to 292
349

The tentacles are much stronger than you would
have expected. Before you can react, they tighten
and pull your sword from your hand! You will not
be able to recover it unless you kill the Anemones. If
you possess another weapon, you may useit Ifyou
have no other weapon, you must fight bare-handed:
subtract 3 from your Attack Strength each round.
(This holds true for eff combats until you can find a
weapon.) If you attack the Anemones, turn to.g4- If
you abandon your sword and leave, turn to 381.

eGaq

399—354

350

Looking at the Dolphin's body, you teel sorrow. It
had tried to help vou, andit foughtnobly. The blood
in the water is drawing scavengers, and you ure
alraid that more Sharks will appear. You look
around ¥ou for a shark-prool hiding-place. Not far
away you see 2 small building with only one en-
france ... a door too small for a Shark ty pass
through. You enter and look around. The first thing
you see is a large, dark opening in the floor. It
appears to be the mouth ofa pipe. Despite vour best
efforts, you are sucked down into darkness. Tum to
104.

357

You swim back down the tunnel. The Elemental is
overjoyed af your survival and your pift. ‘Free at
last! it exulls. Happily, it presents you with a bit of
ice_ “This crystal will not melt,” it tells you. “You can
use it to call upon me once. I will hear your sum-
mons and bear you from any place in the world’s
walers to any other place.’ Then it shimmers and
flows up through the hole in the ceiling. If you
follow it up, turn to 120. If vou go back out through
the coral passageway, turn to 42.
352-354

352

It replies, ‘Thave all the magic thatI need - - - but you
need all the magic you can get. Black Pearls are
magical wealth, and will bring vou more wealth. lf
you have a goodly pouch of Pearls now, ‘twere best
you confronted your foes quickly, ere mght falls. Ii
you require more Pearls, you may brave the
Kraken’s lair, but ‘tis an undertaking most fell.”
With that, the Water Sprite vanishes. If you think
you are ready to find and confront the pirates, turn
to 382. Lf you are not yet ready, you can swim
towards the coral formation the Sprite indicated as
the Kraken’s lair. ‘Turn to 87-

353
The bite is painful but noi serious. Lose 1 STAMINA

point. As you leave, you find that the little Octo-
puses have robbed you! Lose one Provision and any
one item from your bag. If you examine the huge
coral formation in the distance, turn to 87. If you go
in the other direction, turn to 382.

354

You fall terrified on your knees before the Bone
Demon. lt chuckles with a grating sound and moves
towards you. Dropping its weapons, it picks you up
and stares into your eyes. You feel numb and
chilled. Then, holding you tight with two hands, it
uses the claws of the third to stip the flesh from
your living bones, When it is finished with you, i
takes the Pearls from its crown and sets them in
your eye-sockets. You are now an undead servantat
the Bone Demon.

355-358

355
You swim out of the door, As you cross the
threshold, the room whirls around you and you find
yourself back on the ocean floor, in a patch of racks
and rotied timbers. Turn to 111.

356
They take everything vou have except a single
weapon, force you back down the cavern and thrust
you through a heavy iron-bound door. As they barit
behind you, you hear their leader's voice: ‘Die,
trespassing fool!’ Ahead of you is a faint glow lo
guide vou. Turn to 43.

357

By hammering the box against the walls, you man-
age to loosen the rusty hinges. A green fog seeps out
from the cracks in the box, and a choking smell
assaults your new gills. Test your Luck. Lf you are
Lucky, you manage to cast the box away from you.
Tf you are Unlucky, you inhale some of the green
matter, and lose 3 points of STAMINA. In any event,
if you are still alive, you leave the room as quickly as
you can. Turn to 374.

358
If you have learned the magic word that activates
the pearls, spell that word backwards and tum to
the paragraph it indicates, If you have not learned
that magic word, the Pearls are of no use to you-
Turn back to 47 and choose again.
359-360

-
| 359

aie Le 9 ae | The path winds between more seaweed and coral
ees Ona ge 6 TeGh> . displays. Soon you come to a small clearing. In the
sot OE: 2 ais > Go'oo nos 0, « muddle of the clearing is a marble fountain - . . but
Gee ths a. eS CF 4. Sg Ra vey 7S instead of shooting water, the fountain releases a
ie g ; USAR SEN a Sete zr ~ 32 , constant stream of fine bubbles which drift to the
re sa vis, mS a SD he 7a ages ae surface, far above. Within the bow! of the fountain
ee i . een yee : “See Ze foo= you can see something plittering. If you pick it up,
coe Eas == turn to 209. If you ignore the fountain and go on,

7h turn ti 20-

The botue is made of green glass, with a lead seal
inscribed with strange runes. When you pick it up,
the Ghost becomes agitated. “Be careful! he says, ‘T
sense very strong magic! Thereis orTeatreward here,
but there is great danger, too!” If you feel lucky
enough fo open the bottle, turn to 184. If you
abandon the bottle and swim away to investigate
the stone building you saw earlier, turn to 15g.

361-363

61
The dark chimney pi winds around and then
opens on to the sea-floor, You emerge from a small
hole not far from the mausoleum door. lis duty
done, the Glowfish swims away. Turn to 23.

362

You remove the Sawtish from your bag and release
it. It quickly grows into a large fish witha toothy bill.
lt swims towards the bars and attacks them, soon
cutting them to fragments. lis job done, it swims off
into the darkness. As you hurry from the cave, you
find an ordinary sword, which vou may take, if you
like. You swim out of the cave and downstream,
along the abyss. Turn to 148.

363
After a little while you decide you must have takena
wrong turning. You are over a dark chasm, with a
dim glow visible at the bottom. Could that be your
goal? Turn to 6,

364-365

You teach int) your bag and draw out a Provision.
When you offer it to the Water Sprite, if baws
solemnly — and throws the foad to the fish! They
gobble it greedily. The Water Sprite laughs and
vanishes. When you next look into your bag,
though, you will lind that you have three mere
Provisions than you did before vou offered one to
the Sprite. You leave the reef. Ifyou stvim lowards a
larger coral formation in the distance, turn to 87. If
you go in the other direction, towards an area of
rocks and sunken timbers, hirn te111.

365
You swim back up to the trapdoor and shove at it
with all your might, to no avail. You realize that bare
hands will be useless for this task. What will you use
against the heavy wooden door:

Your sword?
The Axefish fif you possess it)?
The Sawtish (if you possess it)?

Turn to 74
Turn to 134
lurn to 323
366-368

66
The Muck Demon Srisrss inta a heap of slime.
Stirring through it gingerly, you find a colourless
jewel. Restore 3 Luck points. You leave the room
and swim towards the blue glow you saw earlier.
Turn to 251.

367
The next window shows a strange-looking man
holding a rapier. You swim closer to see whatis so
odd about him. Suddenly the window seems to
expand around you and you realize you are being
drawn into the scene! Turn to 244.

368
You panic, spin around and flee down the hall.
Behind you, the Tay laughs evilly. You feel dizzy as
her parting curse strikes you. Lose 2 Luck points.
Turn to 162,

369-371
369

As you explore the wreck, the sun sets. Your magic
gills shrink and vanish! Your next breath of water
turns cold in your Jungs. You gasp and choke. [he
surface is far above you - . - too far, Your adyenture
iS Over.

370
You knock out one of its huge teeth for a souvenir.

The blood in the water is drawing scavengers, and
you are afraid that more Sharks will appear. You
look around for a shark-proof hiding-place. Not lar
away you see a small building with only one en-
trance ... a door too small for a Shark to pass
through. You enter and look around, The first thing
you sec is 2 large, dark opening in the floor, It
appears to be the mouth ofa pipe. Despite your best
efforts, you are sucked down into darkness. Turn to

104.

372
You pull yourssvord from the body of the Sea Spider
and move on. Where will you go:

The captain‘s cabin? Turn to 4o
The treasure-hold? Turn loig2
Away from the ship, towards the

gardens? Turn to 2
nytt

ie
Raine

ty

eh

>

al

372-373

372
You are ina small, cubical room. The roof appears to
be made of ice; the fluor is invisible beneath a layer
of bubbling steam. Nervously, you paddle between
the two; you know you are in the presence of strong;

In the centre of the room is a misty-looking, hu-
manoid figure, clad in a loincloth of seaweed. The
strong current of water is coming directly from its
body. The WATER ELEMENTAL looks angry at
your infrusion and lifts a hand threateningly. What
will you do:

Attempt te parley? Turn to 327
Flee back down the coral tunnel? Turn to 58
Attack with your sword? Turn to 210

e@a@

373
Black Pearls are very valuable, and the Merman will
gladly trade you a tool for one. If you choose to give
him Black Pearls, turn to 316 and choose one fish for
each Black Pearl you trade. If you do not like this
price, turn back to 57 and make a different offer, or
turn to 150 and leave.
374-377

374
If you want f explore the tunnel in the other

direction, turn to 245. If you would prefer to swim
back up and out of the building, tum to 16.

375
You stab the Grouper with the harpoon, and it flees
in terror. Unfortunately, your hand is caught in the
harpoon’s leather strap, and you are taken fora nde!
The Grouper flees through a hole in the coral reef
and over a cliff into deeper water, There are more
buildings below vou. Ai last you manage to free
your hand. The Grouper swims off, taking the
harpoon with it. Turn to 64.

376

He sketches a frame in the air around you and
studies you as though you were a picture im a
gallery, muttering to himself. “Bravery alone will do
you no good,’ he states, “Cunning will bring victory.
Bravery and cunning toyether wall make your for-
tune.’ He studies you further. ‘Have you any Black
Pearis?’ he asks. If your answer is ‘Yes’, turn te 175-
If itis ‘No’, turn to 67.

377
The Dolphin chatters in puzzlement. It has never

heard of any such island! it offers to help you home
instead. Exhausted, you accept. As sunset comes
and your gills vanish, you find yourself nding 2
Dolphin across the waves towards Port Blacksand

.. a strange ending for your adventure. You did
nat find the pirates, but you have your life.

)

You swim as fast as eerie for the opening in the
ceiling. Butitis not good enough. A rusly spearjabs
into your back and drags you down. Yuu feel skel-
etal hands, inhumanly strong, clutching you and
pulling you towurd those teeth, You try to use your
sword, butitis wrenched from your grasp. Then the
Bone Demon begins to eat you, feet first. Your
adventure is over-

379

Carefully, you pick your way on to the land. itisa
small island, composed entirely of brilliant white
sand. Nothingis visible around you except fora few
similar islands set in a great expanse of sapphire
oxean. The heat is oppressive. Turning, you dive
back inte the ocean- But the spell thal protected you
has disappeared, and your sills are gone. Your first
breath of water is your last. You thrash, choke, and
dnft slowly toward the bottom of the sea . - .
380-381

380
‘The Seachorse throws you. You cannot fall than}
tothe water around you, but yau are still somewhat
shaken by the wild ride. Lose 2 stasciva point
You head on towards the cathedral in the distance
Turn to 65

3
You leave the Anemone house, swimming out
through the hole in the roof. Ahead of you is
dark chasm, It looks forbidding, but you
nothing else of interest. Turn to6.

382-384

382
‘The sun is setting, and you know you are running
out of time. If you possess an unmelting cxystal of
ice, tum to 303. Ifnot, turn to 61.

383

‘You fight the Ogre. Ithas no weapons, butstrikes at
you with ils huge, slimy Isis. It is double your
height and very strong,

SEA OGRE sen 7

You cannot Escape. If the Ogre reduces your
STAMINA fo 2, tum to 256. IF you kill the Sea Ogre,
turn to63,

STAMINA 1B.

384

As you swim upstream, the coral grotto narrows
until i becomes a tight passageway. You brush.
against one wall and are cut by a sharp branch of
coral. Lose 1 STaMINA point. Ahead of you you can
see that the tunnel narrows still further. Ifyou press
ahead, turn to 345. IFyou tum back, turn 10197,

=
Poo
385-386

385
The tunnel enters a large cavern. The walls have
been cul and faceted to bring out the beauty of the
rock. Little niches contain glittering crystals, att-
ractive plants or anemones, and other undersea
cumiosities. You swim along, admiring the exhibits.
Then you see a MERMAN swimming towards you,
barbed trident at the ready. If you draw your sword
and attack him, turn to 69. If you talk to him, turn to

199.

386

Wary of a trick, you continue fighting. Soon you
give the Water Elemental its death-blow. lt vanishes
and the current of water stops. You search the little
room, but it is entirely bare. Carefully, you return
the way you came, but you still lose 1 STAMINA
point to the sharp coral branches. If you are still
alive, turn to 197-
387-389

387
‘You draw your sword and slash at the Dolphin. It
attacks you in tum —not by biting, but by zamming
‘with its hard beak. It isa formidable opponent.

DOLPHIN seul 10 STAMINA 9

Af you Escape, turn fo 273, If you kill the Dolphin,
turn to133,

388
If you took the necklace from the Sea Hag, turn to
406. Ifyou did not take it, rm to 312,

389
‘You swim away from the building. Which way will
you go:

‘Towards distant sunken

cathedral? Tum to 269
Towardsa gleaming coral reef? ‘Tam to-x60
Towards a cliff with a dark cave at

its base? Tum to 62

390-391

390

and into an area littered with huge boulders, In the
distance, you can sea coral reel, Turn lo 160

398
‘But T don't have 2 Goid Pieces,’ you say, ‘Can I
cow them from you for a little while?! The
zagon roars a refusal and curls tightly around its
jroard. You skould have knowa better than to aska
Dragon to part with gold, even for a moment.
Seeing light towards the buck of the cavern, you
swim hastily in that dizection, out of a nareow
lunnel and up towards the light. Turn to ane

392-394

392
You cannot find a way out of the Oxgre’s prison,
though you exhaust your strength in the attempt-
Eventually the spell wears off; your sills vanish and
you drown. The Ogre is surprised when he returns
and finds you dead, but he eats you anyway.

393
‘That's very unfortunate,’ sighs Greylock. “Never
mind.’ Turn to 154.

aFo@

394
Holding the ice crystal, you call for the Water

Elemental. The crystal vibrates and dissolves. A few
moments later, in a rush of water, the Elemental
appears. ‘This is very poetic, my fend!’ it saysin its
watery voice, “You delivered me from imprison-
ment, and J can now do the same for you~ It flows
inside the logs that bar your way and changes its
form to ice. The bars shatter and you are free. You
thank the Elemental, and it flows away and is gone.
As you hurry from the cave, you find an ordinary
sword, which you may take if you like. You swim
out of the cave and downstream, along the abyss.
Turn to 148-

395-397

395
The tunnel divides once again, narrowing some-
what as it does so. If you take the right-hand fork,
turn to 96. If you go left, turn to 276-

396
You swim away from it, down the path, but it is
faster. It swipes at you with a clawed fin and you
lose 1 STAMINA point. Turn to 73 and fight.

397
You toss it away and swirn towards the stone build-

ins you saw earlier. Turn to 159.

395

;

You follow the stairs upwards, feeling very light
| and agile. At the top of the stairs, the doorway ts
open; the door has long since rotted. The room is
littered with shells and seaweed. A silvery shape
moves toward you - . . then another and another.
The room is the lair of three BARRACUDAS! These
silvery fish are as long as a man, but very slender:
they seem to be all eyes and teeth. They circle you
greedily. You must fight them. With your back to
the doorway, you can meet them one ata time.

hy

SKILL STAMINA

| First BARRACUDA ; 4
Second BARRACUDA fy fi
Third BARRACUDA 5 6

They are much faster than you, so you cannot even
try to Escape. If you kill the Barracudas, you will

| find 4 Gold Pieces amid the litter on the floor. If you
swim out of one of the tower windows and explore
elsewhere, turn to 16. If you ga back down and
explore the tunnel, turn to 233.

399-400

399
‘Youagreeto kissthe princess. With great pomp and
ceremony, the fishy courtiers escort you upstairs.
(Ona soft bed of moss lies the princess, asleep. Her
eyes are like pearls, her skin like jade, her fingers
like trailing, seaweed. She is very beautiful to the
Deep Ones, which means that you find her ox
ceptionally hideous! The courtiers crowd around
expectantly. If you Kiss her anyway, turn to 60. If
you refuse, turn to 224

400
‘The meat tastes delicious. Restore 4 stamina
points. One of the Crab’ claws has not been broken
‘open; you may take it with you. If you eat tit will
bunt as one Provision. If you investigate the brick
building now, turn 10341. Ifyou leave, turn to 389,
Someotier atin:
Steve Jackon’s

SORCERY!

1 search for he lageidary Crown of Kings takes you's
the Shamatant Fil alive wilh evil realutes, less
(asderes and bloodtaiety monster, the hnd idle
‘Sth cs nad tape ating fore unwaerLnveles Wil
You beable to cose the ills ofely and proceed #0 the
‘Sooo fort of the avenue —o2 lly perish inthe
emp

cor elyingon force arms. ora wizard aineetin
"you must ore th traf aly bull to wap the
Vas sua all you wie about yout syive
the unimaginable homursaheon! ad to make sense o he
las hice may lead Io Your success Ft your dou!

je ue SEVEN SERPENTS

‘Seven deadly and agi serpents speed heal of you to
ortho nil Archaageolvourcoaung, Wilyou beabieny
‘och them Geto they get er?

fo THE CROWN OF KiNes

of yourlong tek, you face the unkown tr
of he Mampang Furtess. Hiden side the keep is the
‘Cooma of Kango the ltiate goo! oe Sve! «pie Bl
boware! For if you have at defeated the Seven Serpents
veuracival ae Been ansipated

Complete with all the magic spels you wall ned, cach
ok can be played ellheron isovnoras part ofthe whole
ove

MAELSTROM
Alexander Scati

“A tarmucnt role-playing game of thieves, ropues. mapick
end mavhen.

imagine a band of travellers on the long road om St
Albens io London - a dangers journey in troubled Smes
Which will YOU be: an alchemist, shulled in the arts of
magick? A rogue, on the ron from justice? A noble Ledy on
her way to stir up intrigue at court? A spy disguised asa
herbelict carrying vila] measeges to the King? Or any one of
a host uf ditterent characters. . .

YOU choose the charactess, YOU deade the missiuns end
YOU have the adventires in the terbulent world of Europe
in the sixteenth century — either as a pleyer or 23 Ue
referee.

THE CRETAN CIIRONICLES

BLOODIFEUP OF ATLTHRUS
AT THE COURT OF KING MINUS
RETURN OF THE WANDERER

Joh Butterfield, David Honigrmann, Philip Parker

Felled By a treacherous blow in the labyrinth of King
Mines. your brother Theseus bes dead and unavenged,
the spirits of yuur ancestors cry out from Hades in anger,
and Hermes, the messenger of the gods, appears to sped
you on your wey. For YOU are Altheus, the brother on
whom this heroic task falls. YOU thirst for action. YOU
must Lavel across the wild seas and lands of Ancient
Greece, battling with demons, mythical creatures and
powerful leaders. Brave Altheus ~ will the gods be on your
stile?

All you need is two dice, a pencil and an eraser to embark
on this heroic adventure in the lands of myths and legends.

Each book can be played on its own or as part of the whol
Cretan Chronicles epic edventure-
WHAT IS DUNGEONS AND DRAGONS?
Toi attend, Philip Parker, Davit Honigmane:

Dugeons ead Dragons enables you to play ut your
wildest fantasies, to bate with monetcrs, giants anc
fends, Uke the Yalow Mask Creeper or the Hou of -
(Omen, as yo search for fame and forrane in sc of
{your own making. Thus lascinaling ule lo the gzeaest
Bf all roleplaying ypmes incades dete background
hotes, hints en play and dungeon design, streey and
{Getes, and will prove snvalaable for player and beg
resale. (Pein Pa)

HELMQUFST
David Sekting and Perry Hinton
Thustrated by Nik Spender

Paineea yaenee Soe al pears Sel rears
golden age assured by the power Daimos, nasty ofthe
ods, had invested in he Beght Hil power ba pert
the ond from vil and sorcery. But thon the elm wa
shattered inlo twelve pisces by the Dark Gods and thar
Serva Varsh: Now ench piece lin Redden ina dark are
accursed place, proecied by ono of the ev gece. Dat
YOU have chino! upon the fog kept by NeMenon,
PESLof Alli This ng will evel he journey made by
the evil ones a6 they concealed each piece ofthe Hein
[Da YOU have ti your power tn recover those pieces
‘nd remake the Het thie storing peace to Avanti?
[All he information you nee is hee, ingeniously hidden
In both feet and pcraes, andl cach stand of the master:
Apravel o revel the neat The Quest of Ue Hal aiais
ys Do YOU dare to tke up the halengs?

FIGHTING FANTASY

“The world of Fighting Fantasy, peopled hy oceans
ss and varpies, has caproes Ihe imagioatien of
niles of reader sere: Theling adverts
Seoonl and sorcery corse tote anc the ender he he,
cena op fever Niiw FOU eon te your own
Figting Falasyedveniures andsend your frien offen
eis arewsons! fhe cleanly atten hand,
‘hem are bins on devising combs, measier 10 use,
Sth. Une teat ofan tothe egal of
‘ale plaring games.

THE TASKS OF TANIALON

lustrated by Stephen Lavis

CGallantrts  eeimg rom the tteaath of lang and
sth wae. Tastalon, wizard of he cout, sue he hing

fener Cine ushering nights, enol
‘ing fr power. Dat Tanalon’ yous ave drawing a
‘dove Tn oer bu neck out the Kingdon shanpest mites
“Tonalon how devised an epic sven quest, YOU ave &
competitor ia the Sticene?s quis can YOU sa the
Daan Dagus ensure hase? Wl YOL find ava
1 fee Sie Dunstable fram imprisonment in the Sinn
‘Dungeon? And Iie wil YOU catch she Demon Fish? Al
the intonation yeu need is ingeniously woven in the
fox and pias. AL YOU fave ur dim take up the
hallengeand crack the mys!

Fantasy Questbooks — 52 pages, full colour

STARFLIGHT ZERO
Dawid Pickling and Perry Hinton
Mustrated by Peter Andrew Jones

One by one the Free Planets have fallen to the relentiens
advance of the Dark Ships until only Caldoran and Palonar
remain. Then a last. despairing message comes from Palo-
nar and Caldoran is on its own. It seems that the invaders.
armed with the power of the invincible Dark Light, will
soon conquer the last outpost of resistance. The only hope
tor the survival of Caldoranis ome last desperate mission by
a small group of star hghters to strike st the source of the
Dark Light, And YOU are par of the mission. As you
speed across the galaxy, all the information you need is
there, ingeniously hidden in both text and picteres and
each strand of the mystery unravels to reveal] the next. Do
you dare take up the challenge?

THE PATH OF PERIL
Devid Fickimg and Perry Hintou
Ilustrated by Rachel Birkett

The famous explorer, Edmund Mallory, has been foully
munlered, and the legendary Bloodstone, which he
acquired under mysterious circumstances on his last
travels, is misaing. All that remains are the scettered frag-
ments of the explorer’s diary, his persona] notebook and
most of the contents of his ransacked study. An almost
unsolvable mystery. Yet it seems that the explorer bienselt
expected to meet a violent end and prepared the way for
YOU to track down his murderer and recover the Blood-
stone. Can YOU complete the task you have been srt?

An ale

