* FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS -

Over 8 million copies sold worldwide!

Can YOU save Hachiman from chaos?

Hachiman is in great danger. The Shogun’s
contro! is slipping. Bandits roam the land
freely and barbarian invaders have begun to
raid across the borders. All this because the
Dai-Katana, the Shogun’s great sword, has been
stolen. YOU are the Shogun’s champion, a
young Samurai, Your mission is to recover this
wondrous sword from Ikiru, the Master of
Shadows, deep in the Pit of Demons

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you

need. You have a choice of warrniorskills which

will affect the outcome of your mission. There

are Honour points to be won and lost. YOU

decide which route to follow, which dangers to
risk and which monsters to fight!

Cover dinstrrtion by Peter Anifrew Jottes
opyrintt (> Sadar Wind Led

~~
pose  &

Go LIVINGSTONE

SWORD2. SAMURAI

a

PUPEIN BOOKS

SWORD OF THE SAMURAI

Summoned to the Shogun’s oresence, you lear that your
land of Hachiman is in grave danger. The Shogun‘s control
is slippimg— some lords are breaking awav and plotting
treacherous deeds. Bandit rowm the land freely and
carbarian invaders have begun to raid across the borders.
All this beceu the Dui-Katana, the great sword, Singing
Death, has Deen stolen from the Shogun.

YOU are the Shogun’s champion, a young Samurai. You
have followed Bushido, the Way of the Warrior, and are a
master of Kenjuteu, the Way of the Sword. Your mission is
te recower the teondrous sword from [kiru, the Master of
Shadows, who holds i hidden deep in his mountain
fastmess, Orikaru, the Pit of Demons, guarded by his

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all vou need to embark
on this thrilling adventure of sword and sorcery. You have
@ chotee of warrior skills — Kyujutsu, faijutsu, Karumaijutsu
or Nito-Kenjutsu — and your choke will affect the outeome
ot your mission. Thete ave Honour pots to be won and lost,
too.

Many dangers lie ahead end your success is by no means
certain, It’s up te YOU te decide which route te follow, which
dangers to risk and which adversazies to fight’
Fighting Junfisy Gantedooks

THE WARLOCK D> FIRETOP MOUNTAIN

2 JHE CPPADEL OF LALADS

+. THE FOREST OF DOOM
4. ATARSEI OT PAVE LSE

3. LILY OCF THIEVES
4. DEATHTRAF DUNGEON
SANE OTHE DIZAKD KING
SCORMION SWAN?

5. CAVERNS OF THER SNOW WITCH
t¢ JMOOSh OP ILELL

22. TALISMAN OF DEATE
+3. 3PACF aS4GaSaIN

ta, PRELWAY BCwiLe
ig. TEMPLE OF TERROR

5. THE IONGS OF KETHER

4, SEAD OF ULOUD

+7. AFPOINTMENT WITH FEAR
“> RENEE PLANE

-y. DEMONS OF TRE DEEF

an. AWORD OF THD SAMOURAS

23, TRIAL OS CULAMPICRS

aa. ROBOT COMMANDO

2» MASKS DP MATILt

te LRKEATURE OF ILA OL

as. BFNEATH NIGHTMARE CASTLE
2) CRTUV EY TL SORLURER

zy. STAR STRIDER

sf PRANTOMS OF TRAR

29, MIDNICIIT ROCLE

su. CRHASMS OF MALICE
Steve Jackson's sonrci um!

2 CLE SILAMETARTLUNLY

4, XEARE - CITYPORT OF TRAPS

> PRESIVEN SEhFENTs

¢ Tif ChuMwN OF AINCS
FIGHTING FANTASY -

The Introductory Rule-Plaving Game
THE RIDDLING REAVER
Four Role-Playing Adventures
QUT OF THE Pil Fighting Fantasy Monsters
TITAN —- The Fighting lantasy World

Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone
present:

Mark Smith and
Jamie Thomson

Ifustrated by Alan Langford

PUFFIN BOOKS
TUFFIN BOOKS

Puldished by the Peasuin Gro:
ap Wig nts Lane, Lewdon 9S ta" Fe seitad
Viking Jengun Tne. 29 West 25rd Sucet, Nerve Yara. New Fork sacs. cS4
Prayuin Boose Australia Lid, Rinyrertens. vactoms, fasts
Venn Aauks Cannas Th, abc john Stevi, Markham, Orase, Carocia Lyk 25
Penpysin Sooke (N7) Leck, 12 299 Wenuu Kood, Anceudd 19 Neo Zesore

Vengusn Fake Lic, Repetena Utices: Harmandrecets, Wid teres Farkas

First polished cast
Ra:printoe, 2665 tha cr. Ign? twas aces

Crenept copprighs £3 Sleve Jack-ne cas ian Livengs one. ae
‘Teat copy £5 Mock Smith enc Jame | mer psec 1288
“Teast sation copyrigtt CS Abn Lecufied. at
AM riphis ceserecd

Pentend! 2d Soar ir Cex. Bom by
Cos & Wemen Lic. Aexdirs

Iypeert in arazpt Peat as be
Revwhind Mootetepeecting Lod
Hare St Idan, Suticlk

Fsocps tn the Loailes Soares of Ate.
ites Fuck is sole. sulest te the concoer
that tt shall mat, by way of bode ce cohen ee,
be lens, sou. Fired vat, or othecwiw elocaleed
withent the gublister's polor comernt in any form a
binding gr newer Olver thom: chat In .aEh lo
tediuedl aod ytheus a sianilss candace,
indludirg thas nadiion bers, enpeaod
on the sutenjazat pore

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION

-

7
SPECIAL RULES
t4

ADVENTURE SHEFT
16

BACKGROUND
is

SWORD OF THE SAMURAT

21
INTRODUCTION

Before embarking on youradventure, you must first
determine your own strengths and weaknesses.
You have in your possession a sword and a back-
pack containing Provisions (food and drink) far the
trip. You are 2 Samurai, always prepared for any
heroic mission.

‘To see how effective your preparations have been,
you must use dice to determine your initial sK11.1.
and STAMINA scores, On pages 16-17 there is an
Adventure Sheet which you may use toe record the
details of an adventure, On it you will find boxes for
recording your skILL and STAMINA scores.

You are advised to either record your scores on the
Adventure Sheet in pencil, or make photocopies of
the page to use in future adventures,

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one die. Add 6 te this number and enter this
total in the sKrLL box on the Adventure Sheet.

Roll both dice. Add 12 to the number rolled and
enter this total in the sTA MINA bon.

There is also a LUCK box. Roll one dic, add 6 to this
number and enter this total in the tuck box.
For reasons that will be explained below, sxi1t,
STAMINA and LUCK scores change constantly dur-
ing an adventure. You must keep an accurate record
of these scores and for this reason you are advised
either to write small in the boxes or to keep an eraser
handy. But never nib out your Imfial scores.
Although you may be awarded additional sxii1,
STAMINA and! vUck points, these totals may never
exceed your lnilial scores.

Your SKILL score reflects your swordsmanship and
yeneral fighting expertise; the higher the better.
Your STAMINA score reflects your general constitu-
tion, your will to survive, your determination and
overall fitness; the higher your stamina score, the
longer you will be able to survive. Your LucK svore
indicates how naturally lucky a person you are.
Luck — and magic — are facts of life in the fantasy
kingdom you are about to explore.

Battles

You will often come across pages in the book which
instruct you to fight an opponent of some sort.
Battles are conducted as follows.

First record your opponent's skit. and STAMINA
scores im the first vacant Encounter Box on your
Adventure Sheet. The scores for each opponent are
given in the book each time you have an encounter.

The sequence of combat is then:

1. Roll both dice once for your opponent. Add its
SKILL score. [his total is your opponent's Attack

2. Roll both dice once for yourself. Add the number
rolled to your current SKILL score. This total is
your Attack Strength.

3. If your Attack Strength is higher than that of your
opponent, you have wounded it. Proceed ta step
4. If your opponent's Attack Strength is higher
than yours, it has wounded you. Proceed to step
>. If both Attack Strength totals are the same, you
have avoided each other's blows — start the next
Attack Round from step 1 above.

4- You have wounded your opponent, so subtract 2
points from its STAMINA score. You may use
your LUCK here fo do additional damage (see
below).

5- Your opponent has wounded you, so subtract 2
points from your Own STAMINA score. Again
you may use LUCK at this stage (see below).
6. Make the appropriale adjustments to either your
opponent's or your own STAMINA scores fand
your 1 UcK score if you used LUcK—see below}.

. Begin the next Attack Round by repeating steps
1-6. This sequence continues until the srTa MINA
score of either you or your opponent has been
reduced tu zero (death).

~]

Fighting More Than One Opponent

Sometimes you will find yourself under attack from
more than one person or creature. When this hap-
pens, each will make a separate altack on you in
each Attack Raund, but you must choose which one
you will fight. Attack your chosen target as in
normal battle. Against the other, you must throw
for your Atlack Strength in the normal way, but
even if your Attack Swength is greater you will not
inflict a wound, Just count this as though you have
parried an incoming blow, However, if your Attack
Strength is lower, you sill have been wounded in
the normal way.

Luck

Al various times during your adventure, either in
battles or when you come across situations in which
you could either be lucky or unlucky (details of
these are piven on the pages themselves), you may
call on your LUCK io make the outcome more
favourable. But beware! Using Luck is a risky busi-

10

ness and if you are unlucky, the results could be

The procedure for using your Luckis as follows: roll
two dice. Ifthe number rolled is equal to or less than
your current LUCK score, you have been lucky and
the result will go in your favour. [f the number
rolled is higher than your current LUCK score, youl
have been unlucky and you will be penalized.

this procedure is known as Testing your Luck. Each
time you Tesf your Luck, you must subtract 1 point
from your current LUCK score. Thus you will soon
realize that the more you rely on your Luck, the

more risky this will become.

Using Tuck mm Baltes

On certain pages of the book you will be told to Test
your Luck and will be told the consequences of your
being lucky or unlucky, However, in battles, you
always have the option of using your 1.Uck either to
inflict a more serious wound on an opponent you
have just wounded, or to minimize the effects ol a
wound your opponent has just inflicted on you.

if you have just wounded your opponent, you may
Test your Luck as described above. If you are Lucky,
you have inflicted a severe wound and may subtract
an éirg 2 points from your opponent's STAMINA
score. However, if you are Unlucky, the wound was
a mere graze and you must restore t point to your
opponent’s STAMINA (i.e. instead of scoring the

11
normal 2 poinis of damage, you have now scored
only tT).

If your opponent has just wounded you, you may
Test your Luck to try to minimize the wound. If you
are Lucky, you have managed to avoid the ‘full
damage of the blow. Restore 1 point of STAMINA
(i.e, instead of doing 2 points of damage it has done
only 1). If you are Unlucky, you have taken a more
serious blow, Subtract 1 extra STAMINA point.

Remember that you must subtract 1 poimt from your
own LUCK score each time you Test your Lick.

Restoring Skill, Stamina and Luck
Shall

Your sk1LL score will not change much during your
adventure. Occasionally, a page may give instruc
tons to increase or decrease your SKILL score.

Stamina and Provisions

Your STAMINA score will change a lot during your
adventure as you fight and undertake arduous
tasks. As you near your goal, your STAMINA level
may be dangerously low and battles may be partiar
larly risky, sa be careful!

Your backpack contains enough Provisions for ten
meals, You may rest and eat at any ime except
when engaged in a battle. The text will not tell you
when you can do this: itis up to you. Eating a meal
reslores 4 STAMINA points. When you eat a meal,
add 4 points ta your STAMINA score and deduct 2

12

point from vour Provisions. A separate Provisions
Remaining box is provided on the Adventivre Sheet
for recording details of Provisions. Remember that
you have a long way tp go, so use your Provisions

Luck

Additions to your | UCK score are awarded through
the adventure when you have been particularly
lucky. Details are given on the pages of the book.
Remember that, as with sktt.1.and STAMINA, your
LUCK score may never exceed its Initial value, unless
specially instructed by the text.

43
SPECIAL RULES

As a Samurai, there are certain skills at which you
may be expert. Depending on which skill you
choose, you will be tald in the text when vou can use
it, or else the skill will cifect combai in some way.
Chaose one skill from the follawing list.

Kyujutsi (Archers)

Chis skill allows you to start with the Samurai bow
and a set of twelve arrows, consisting of three
willow-leal arrows (2 5TAMINA damage), three
bowel-rakers (3 STAMINA damage), three armour-
piercers (2 STAMINA damage, but required for use
Upainst certain Opponents) and three humming
bulbs (1 STAMINA damage, but makes a frightening
noise). You must keep a record of the number and
type of your arrows on your Adventure Sheet. When
you are -asked if you w ish to fire an arrow, choose
the arrow you wish to use and cross it off your list.
Sometimes you may be lucky cnough to regain an
arTow or find some more. To see whether or not you
hit 2 target, you will have to rolla number on two
dice less than your sku. You will be told when to
ust an armour-piercer ora humming bulb.

faqutsy (Fast draw}

This skill enables you to draw your sword and strike
all in one fast motion. This means that vou will

44

always hit your enemy, no matter what his SKILL
rating, in the first round of combl only, doing 3
STAMINA points of damage.

Karumifutsu (Heroic leaping}

This enables you to make fantastic leaps and acroba-
tic jumps. You will be told when you can usc this.

Ni-to-Kerjutsi

This is the skill of fighting with tvo swords, the
wakizashi {shortsword) and the katana (long-
sword). All Samurai carry both swords, but not all
have this special skill at using them simultaneously,
With this skill, if you attack an opponent and roll 4
or more, you may make another attack, before your

enemy has the chance to fight back. (IF you roll g or
more on your second throw you cansuol have yet
another attack!)

Honour Points

As a Samurai of the Shogun of Tachiman, you are
bound by giri (duty) and Honour. You begin the
adventure with 3 Honour points. Certain actions
will increase Honour, others reduce it. Lf your Hon-
our is ever reduced too, turn to paragraph gg, no
matter what you are doing at the time. Also, your
Honour will have a bearing on whether or not you
can do certain things in the adventure.

15
ANYENTURE SKEET

STAMINA

LUCK

SKILL

Initial Initial Initial
Syl Stamina= Luck—

.
a
NOTES fi HONOUR

PROVISIONS
REMAINING

SPECIAL SKILL

ENCOUNTER BOXES

uN
Sat =

Slanting—

>:

r

Shl=

Stemina=

Shli=

i=

Stawina=

Slang

Sriti=

Slanuna=

Staminme—

“|

cea

Stirnina=

——*
Skeai= Skall-
Stanmuma= Sfarmine=

”
Sali=

Stamina =

BACKGROUND

The world of Titan has three main continents —
Allansia, Khakabad and Khul, the Dark Continent.
it is on the eastern coast of Khul that the land of
Tlachiman lies; the sea on one side and mountains
on all the others cut Hachiman off from the rest of
the continent.

The capital of Hachiman is Konichi and its ruler is
Kihei Hasekawa, the Shogun, You are a young
Samurai, the Shogun’s champion, and said by many
to be Kensei or ‘Sword Saint’, You have faithfully
followed Bushido, the Way of the Warrior, and area
master of Kenjutsu, the Way of the Sword.

One day the Shagun summons you to his presence
and tells you a dreadful tale:

‘Hachiman isin grave danger. My controlis slipping
— some lards are seeking to break away and declare
their estates independent; others have already done
so, and plot agains! me. Bandits roam the land
freely and barbarian invaders have begun to raid
acrass our borders, knowing that Hachiman is
weak. All this because the Dai-Katana, the great
sword Singing Death, has been stolen from me.”

Singing Death is a wondrous sword, said to bestow
Breat powers on its keeper, and to be the soul of
Hachiman, ‘He who wields Singing Death and un-

18

covers the secret of the sword will rule Hachiman,’
the Shogun continues. ‘Many lords say | now have
no right to rule; some seek to take the sword for
themselves, others have already changed their
allegiance to he who now holds the sword. And no
keeper could be worse; it is [kiru, Master of Sha-
dows. that soulless dog who cowers in his mountain
fastness, Onikaru, the Pit of Demons, Now that he
has the sword, Bakemono-Sho and Shikome are
flocking to his banners, and he summons forth
Shure, warmmor ghosts, from the pit to aid him. Soon,
if he uncovers the secret of the sword, he will
overrun our beautiful land of cherry blossoms.

‘You have senki, war spirit, and to youT entrust this
mussion. Go, my champion, to Onikaru, slay [kiru
and bring me Singing Death. It will not be easy. To
slay Ikiru and to defeat his infernal allies you will
have to uncover the secret of Singing Death. |
cannot tell you the secret, for it is written that he
who freely reveals it will be damned for ever to the
nether regions, and Singing Death will disappear
from the world of men. You will have to solve the
puzzle yourself. | will pray to the Kami of the
Heavens for your success, and may Hotei god of
luck smife on you. Here, take this, the Seal of the
Shogun. It will give you safe passage throuyh those
areas still loyal to me.’

Turn to 1-

7 tine ae
Sp pri fees

19
E

i

You gather your weapons, your katana ({longsword)
and wakizashi (shortiword), your battle armour
and Provisions. [he guards salute you a5 you leave
the main gate of Konichi. You follow the road north
through the beautiful countryside surrounding the
capital; soon you come tua forkin the road. Will you
go west and north, to the Forest of Shadows, Haga-
kure Bridge and on to the Shios’ii Mountains (turn
to 10), or east, to the ford, through the Mizokumo
bens and thence to the mountains (turn to 29)?

“a

‘Well, man-thing, here is the first riddle:

In marble halls as white as milk,

Lined with a skin as soft as silk,

Within a fountain crystal-clear,

A golden apple doth appear;

No doors are there to this stronghold
Yet thieves break in and steal the gold-’

The Tatsu stares al you in greedy anticipation.
When you think you have the ansiver, take each
letter of the answer (don't count words such as‘a‘ or

3-4

‘the’), convert it Eo its corresponding number in the
alphabet (i.e. a number from i to 26), add them
tozether and turn to that paragraph number.

Sa, if the answer was ‘fire’ (which it isn’t!}, you
would turn to 38.

1 ad hs | Eo =

6+ 9 +18+ 5 =38

If the paragraph you turn to is the wrong one {it
won't make sense!), turn to 26,

3
The yellow eyes of the nearest monster show a

gleam of intelligence as you bow in surrender. It
reaches for your sword, whith you decide to gireit,
since you still have your shorter wakizashi. The
monster then motions you to cross over the ford-
Your katana is the sword with which you are most
skilful. Subtract 1 from your sKiL1 until you find
another katana, or Singing Death itself. You cross
the ford, Turn to 245-

You hurtle down the stairs as fast as you can. You
can hear the suards behind you, but their footfalls
stop at the top of the stairs. A laugh echoes down
the stairs, as does the voice of another: “We shall
never see that one again. The Mukade will see to
that!’ You run on, knowing you cannot go back: you
will have to face whatever les ahead. At the bottom
of the stairs a dank, rough-cut tunnel runs into

rf

blackness ahead. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 16. ff you are Unlucky, turn to 38.

Suspicious of whatever caused the ald charcoal-
burners death, you skirt the perimeter of the vil-
lage, but all looks normal and peaceful. Peasants go
about their business, mostly returning home as
dusk falls. Some of the older villagers are gathering
outside the headman’s house, Will you ask one of
the peasants for hospitality (turn to 71), or join the
elders at the headman’s house (turn to 319)?

6
Tf is an easy matter to bury yourself in the hay
without the driver noticing. Soon you can hear the
vuards questioning him and then the sound of the
great oak doors rumbling open. Test your Tuck. If
you are Lucky, turn to 14. [f you are Unlucky, turn
to 28.

7

Shielding your head with your wakizashi, you give
ground as a storm of flaming brands sizzle through
the air. One catches on the fastening of your lac-
quered armour, burning you badly (lase2s1r4 MINA
points). If you are sill alive, you utter a blood-
curdling cry of rage and lop off the fire-wielder’s
head with one clean sweep of your katana. You
charge the rest, bul they scatter into the woods. You

vat out the flames thatare threatening to consume
8

vou. You have defended the Shogun’s honour and
you may add 1 to your own Honour score before
continuing on your way. Turn to 195.

8

You are slowly working your way up the mountain-
side when a tingling sensation, like an itch on your
brain, causes you to pull up shart. You look up, and
suddenly an imposing figure stands belore you,
Dressed in fine robes and armour of silver and gold,
it is a tall, muscular man-like being. Its face is
handsome to look upon, clean and pure; butitis the
purity of complete evil. Its eyes burn with violet
flame and its whole being radiates power and
nialice. It is a Dai-Oni, or greater demon.

‘So, mortal, you would seek entry to the domain of
Ikiru, Master of Shadows?’ it says, its words res-
onant with strength. ‘To do so, you must defeat me
in the Tourney of the Planes.“ Then the Dai-Oni
begins to fade, laughing maniacally, the laughter
echoing like thunder all around vou,

Suddenty vou lind yourself in open space, In every
direction stretch the endless stars, and your mind
reels as you try to take it allin. Then your vision fixes
on the doors, bringing you back from the edge of
madness. You are surrounded by eight doors, one
in cach of the walls of an octagonal rucm; but the
walls, ceiling and Hoor are transparent.

Then the voice of the Dai-Oni fills your head. ‘This
place is called the [lub. Behind each door lies some
9

powerlul beast. You must try to win as many of
these cTeafures over to your cause as you can. They
will then aid youin battle. For, when you are ready,
you will have to face me and my allies in a struggle
to the death at the Place of Battle. If, somehow, you
should tdumph, then you may enter the Pit of
Demons and there meet your fate at the hands of
Tkiru. So let it begin, and may fortune desert you
and the blight of a thousand sores be visited upon
you.’ The voice fades. It seems you have no choice
but to play the Tourney of the Planes. Each door is
labelled. Which door will you go through first:

“The Pinnacle of Ultimate Height? Turn to 30
~The Elder Plains? Tum to 65
The Mountain of Ineffable
Holiness? Turn to 66
The Endless Sands of Akhon? Turn to 78
~The Swamps of Primordial Mire? Tum to 98
>The Eternal Tower? Turn to110
ihe Enchanted Wood? Turn to 126
The Place of Battle? Turn 10138

9
Flailing wildly, you fight your way to the village‘s
edyve and then run into the darkness. The Rokuro-
Kubi thal remain intact after the savage beating
inflicted on them decide to let you go. You have
survived the Village of the Undead. Add x to your
1.ucK and turn te 397.

10-11

10

You journey on through the lands of Hachiman-
Wherever vou pass, people bow with respect, rec-
ognizing either the Shagun’s champion or the Sho-
gun's seal. This close to Konichi the land is as itever
was, peaceful and happy. After a few days, habi-
tations become more sparse. You are travelling
through the domain of Lord Tsictsin when you
notice a plume of smoke on the harizon. As you
draw near, you can see it is a burning village, You
shake your head sorrowfully at the state Hachiman
is in, when raiders can strike into the heart of one of
the lords’ territories. A dusty track leads from the
road to the village. Will you investigate the village
(torn to 34}, or decide your mission is too important
and press on {turn to 24)?

i

You tell the elders that you have left some belong-
ings outside the village and that you sill return with
them shortly, but they seem unwilling to let you go.
You end up forcing your way past them and walk-
ing behind some houses to ayoid their prying eyes

When out of sight you make for the village’s end.
Turn to 15.

12-14

i12

‘So,’ ihe Tatsu thunders, ‘you have managed to get
as far as the Tourney of the Planes, mortal! Weil
done! | have decided to help you in your battle
against the Dai-Oni, for | too wish to see Tkimu,
Master of Shadows, slain. When you step through
the portal to the Place of Battle, | shall be there to
fight for you.’ With that it flies away. You can do
nothing more, so you step back through the door
behind you, and find yourself back at the Hub,
surrounded by stars. Nate down that you have won
over the Tatsu to your cause before returning to 8
and choosing another option, Da not choose an
option you have already tried_

33
Three of the scaly green monsters attack you at
once, rushing the mound to iry to sweep you off it
with their webbed claws, You must give battle.

SKILL STAMINA
First KAPPA 8 14
Second KAPPA 8 12
Third KAPPA 7 43

[f you reduce one of the Kappa te 4 STAMINA points
orless, him to 31- :

14

The cart is driven into the stable. The driver stomps
away, muttering something aboul a parched throat
after a long journey, and you quietly climb down to
the stable floor. Across the castle courtyard is a

14

square stone keep, with pagoda-like roofs and
carved gables, the palace of Lard Tsietsin. But it is
the two palace guards flanking the doors that really
draw your attention. They are Shikome, vile
humanoid beings, but hairy as apes, and with
claws, fangs and horible snouted faces. They are
dressed in dirty and tattered imitations of Samurai
armour, although their weapons seem in excellent
condition. The presence of Shikome can only mean
that Isietsin is in league with Ikiru, Master of Sha-
dows. Tsietsin will be in the palace, and it seems
even more important than before to slay him.

When it is late evening, you decide to act. If you
have the skill of Kyujutsu, you can try to kill both
the guards as swiftly as possible with two single
bow-shots (furn to 46)- If you cannol, ordonot wish
to use this skill, you can walk casually towards them
and then suddenly attack (turn to 64}, walk forward
and say you have an important message for Lord
Tsietsin (farm to 84), or simply stride fonvard as
authoritatively as possible, salute and walk into the
palace as if they were not there (turn to 100}.

15

15

Yau head hastily in the opposite direction to that by
which you entered the village. Nobody appears to
notice you leave and you begin to breathe easier —
there was something unnatural about the villagers.
Suddenly you catch sight of the old charcoa-bumer
who brought you to the village. You thought him
quite dead, having lefi his unbreathing corpse at the
other edge of the village, yet here he is grinning at
you from behind a wall. You step forward, unable to
believe your eyes—but then stop as his head sails up
into the night air. lt has completely detached itself
from his body. With a thrill of horror you realize that
this is an undead being, a Rokuro-Kubi, whose
heads detach themselves at night in order to hunt. It
spits black gobbets of poison which hiss and smoke
as they spatter against your face. You are in agony.
Lose 2 STAMINA points. You must fight the Rokuro-
Kubi as it flies through the air snapping viciously.

ROKURO-KUBI

If you win, turn to 153.

STAMINAS

SKILL7

16-17

16
There is a sudden crack, as loud as thunder, anda
rusted irom portcullis slams down behind you,
where you had been an instant ago, There is no
return now in any case, and you press on. A fetid
odour reaches your nostrils and, up ahead, a milky
huminescence glows as you draw near. Turn to 50.

17

The journey to the Spider Fens across open lawless
termitory takes three days, during which you take
the bare minimum of rest, not wishing to be caught
out in the open by mounted Samurai in the service
of Ikiru, Master of Shadaws. The air seems unnahur-
ally chill as you enter the dreaded Spider Fens, but
you console yourself with the thought that taking
this route will allow you to penetrate deep within
ikiru’s territory before he knows of your presence.
A paved road stretches into the delta, running north
in the night direction for you. It runs on a dyke
surrounded by lakes and marshes on cither side. At
last the fox comes down and you can see no further
than a few cracked flagstones ahead. At length you
come toa junction. The paved road veers north-east
into the fog. A well-trodden path leads north pasta
signpost saving ‘The Well of Senuls’, and another
dyke leads along the edge of a mist-covered lake to
the west If you have a map showing the route toa
scarlet pagoda, Lurn to 207. If not, will you head
north {turn te 285), west (turn te 125) or north-east
(furn to 249)?
18-19

18

You race up the stairs and burst into a small guard-
roam. A single soldier stares af you in surprisc. You
dart past him into the corridors of the palace, but the
alarm has been raised now. You lead them a merry
chase, but there is no escape from Tsietsin’s castle,
not with all his men after vou. At last you arc aught
and, although you fight bravely, you are over-
whelmed and hacked into pieces.

19
The Taisu seems disappointed, “An egg. Yes, thatis
right, man-thing Then it brightens, the look of
greed coming back into its eyes, “But can you suc-
ceed ayain, sharp-wilted mortal?

When one does not know shat itis,
Then it is something;

But when one knows what itis,
Then it is nothing.’

Again, when you think vou have the answer, take
each letter of the answer, convert it to its corres-
ponding numberin the alphabet, add them together
and turn to that paragraph number. If the para-
graph you turn to is the wrong one, turn to 26.

20-21

20

The gaoler utters a grunt of annoyance. Tes! your
Luck. If you are Lucky, tum to 282. If you are
Unlucky, turn te 296.

24
The humming-bulb arrow speeds to its mark in the
chest of one of the monsters, but the whining shriek
it makes as it flies through the air has no effect on
them. The other rakes you with a webbed claw, then
body-checks you as you struggle away from the
frothing white water at the edge of the pier of rock.
Lose 3 STAMINA points. You are sent slipping and
sliding to the very brink of disaster as it moves in to
attack again. You cannot find your balance, and so
you decide to commit yourself to the hidden mys-
tery of the frothing white water below the ford.
Turn to 49.

22-23

22

Eleanor steps forward and unleashes a crackling
bolt of blue energy from her hands. lt strikes Gar-
gantus in the face and his ruby eyes explode like
coloured glass. Gargantus utters a thunderous roar
of pain, before toppling to the ground, mert, merely
a Statue of bronze now.

Eleanor turns to you and says. ‘T have paid my debt

to you now, and must leave. Good luck, warrior.’

She gestures and fades away, back to wherever she
came from.

lhe Dai-Oni speaks: “You have done well, mortal,
but now I shall kill you.’ lt advances, wielding a
massive spiked iron club, a Tetsubo. lf you still have
the Ki-Rin as an ally, you ma¥ send it avainst the
Dai-Oni (turn to 394). Otherwise, you will have to
fizht the Dai-Oni alone (tur to 292).

23

Se your head with your wakizashi, you give

sround as a storm of flaming brands sizzle through
the air. One catches im the fastening of your lac-
guered armour and another dislodves your helmet.
You are burnt badly and almost concussed (lose 5
STAMINA points). If you are siillalive, you give vent
to a blood-curdling cry of rage and lop off the
fire-wielder’s head with one clean sweep of your

a
er cere :

24-25

katana. You charge the rest, but they scatter Into the
weods; you stop to beat out the flames that are
threatening io consume you. You have defended
the Shogun’s honour and you may add i to your
own Honour score before continuing on your way-
‘Turn to 195-

24
You walk on. Soon the village fades from view as
you pass through the rolling fields of farmlands-
The main road curves past a low hill, and when you
round it, you sce a fortified castle some way from
the road. You recognize the flag of Lord Tsictsin, the
local daimyo or baron, fluttering above the towered
ramparts. lf you have already met some of Lord
‘Tsietsin‘s men, turn to 314- If you have not, tum to

326.

25

You sink twenty feet below the chill surface of the
pool beneath the well, weighed dawn by your lac
quered armour. You might just be able to surface
with your swards if vou can struggle out of your
armour in time, but yourlungs are already bursting.
if your current STAMINA is 12 or Jess, turn lo 353; if
itis more than 12, turn to 323.

26-27

26
‘No, man-thing, that is incorrect,’ the Tatsu says
greedily, its eyes glowing with baleful fire. ‘And
now I shall deyour you! Ht rears and launches itself
at you, jaws snapping horribly. You must fight it.

TATSE SKILL it STAMINA 13

If you win, furn to 42.

27
Somewhere within you, you find the strength to
resist the evil blandishments of [kiru’s demon.
When you do so it abruptly disappears. There is a
hiss of indrawn breath as Ikiru Starts in rage.

‘You dare to resist me, petty mortal,’ he croaks.
Before you can run forward to try to grab Singing
Death, Ikiru rises from his throne and rushes at you
—in fact, he floats across the ground. His hands are
talons of black nothingness. You ready yourself for
combat, but before he reaches you, [kiru spreads his
atms and bolts of black enerpy leap from his arms to

28

engulf you. You are cursed, charred and crippled all
atance, Lose 21.UCK points, 4STAMINA points and
2 SKILL pvints. If you siill live, a sword of black
steel, etched with glowing red ranes appears in his
hands and he swings ai you, his face a mask of
shadow, dark and featureless. You must fight him.

TKIRU

Tach time Ikina hits you and you remain alive, Tes!
your Luck. lf you are Lucky, fight on. If you are
Unlucky, turn tp 109. If vou manage to defeat him,
turn to 400.

SKILL1i2 STAMINA TI2

28

Suddenly there is a shout of To, what's this? A foot
in the hay! and a burst of laughter. The hay is
ripped away and several Samurai guards are level
ling their spears at you. ‘So, the Shogun’s champion
skulks in the hay like a common pig-herder!” says 4
cruel-looking man in a kimono. ‘lam leratsu, Lord
Tsivtsin’s heutenant. We welcome you to his castle.”
he says wryly. Then he signals and the guards leap
upon you. You strugele, but there are too many of
them and soon you hare been overpowered.

You are unceremoniously throw'n into a small cellin
the palace dungeon. The gaoler, a large beefy man
in a stained leather jerkin, says jecringly, “You will
be taken before the Shogun Tsietsin on the mor-
row.’ He then slams the massive, iron-studded,
oaken door of the cell in your face.

You are alone, They have taken your swords, and it

—

29

is this rather than the cruel pibes and the indignity
of capture that fills you with shame. Lose 1 Honour
point for their loss. There is nothing you can do but
wait for the moming, so you lie down on the
wooden pallet in the corner and go to sleep. Turn to

316.

se,
The east road which meanders across the plain of
the great Hang-Yo river bustles with activity. Here
in the fertile river valley, swept constantly by the
Shogun’s Samurai patrols, many of the people
30

know nothing of the unrest which has brought
turmoil to the borders of Hachiman. The nce-
wagons and the imprompti caravans of tinkers and
pedlars which pass along the road plying their
wares from fief to fief are no different from those
which rolled along the Road of the East Wind two
hundred years ago. They, being of lower caste than
Fou, a Samurai and the Shogun’s champion, are
careful that the wheels of their carts do not splash
Four splendid armour, and ali bow as you pass. The
journey into the uplands is peaceful enough, but as
the last bend of the river, twinkling like a band of
mercury in the late afternaon sun, falls out of sight,
so the altitude of the peasants you mect changes.
Turn t 43-

30
You open the door marked ‘The Pinnacle of Citi-
mate Height’. The next thing you know, you are
standing ona thin pinnacle of rock, high ina strange
yellow sky. An orange sun bums overhead, Far
below, the ground is a dark red colour. From hori-
zon to horizon tower thousands of these pinnacles,
but you are standing on the highest. Behind you, a
door hangs in the air, a gate throurh the worlds to
the Hub.

A speck appears in the sky and grows larger as it
nears you. It turns out to be a Tatsu, a wingless

: <3 a
Ue eexnviats yes
31

airriding dragon. It has a massive serpent-like
body, with four taloned legs, and it seems to be
walking on air. If you have encountered the Tatsuin
the Forest of Shadows already, turn to 144. If not,
tum toa 156.

31
The scaly green flesh of the monsters tums a dull
irplish colour where your sword strikes, until
their flesh looks like rotting fruit, but the wounds
don’t seem to be affecting them as much as you
would expect, Other green figures lumber out of the
water to take the place of thase you have been
fighting and you will svon be surrounded. You may
not be able to defeat these creatures through
swordsmanship alone. Turn to 41.

» >

32-33

The undead warrior fights in eerie silence. Your last
blow shatters one of its skeletal arms and it executes
another leap, which takes it out of range.

Suddenly, it turns virtually invisible, until only a
reddish outline enables you to determine its pos-
ition. Then it attacks you again. Continue the fight,
but vou cannot use Taijutsu again if you have thal
skill, and subtract 2 from your skill while it is
invisible. The first time you hit it, turn ta 58.

33

As you approach the estuary through the mire of the
fens, it begins to rain. You slog on, but the rainfall is
torrential and you are soon soaked through and
bespattered with mud from head to foot. It rains for
two days, by which time you decide to turn back,
The water-level rises until you are forced to swim.
After several miles you drown, utterly exhausted,
im
2.
3
2
.
z
ir)
Ke
=
u

34-35

4

You stride down the dusty track, but break into a
mim when screams of pain come to you frum the
burning village. You can see horsemen, presumably
bandits, charging in amoung the fleeing villagers. A
grove of frees obscures your view fora moment, and
as you round it, a horseman gallops up the trail from
the village towards you. It is a Samurai, with a long
spear in one hand, and dressed in the green and
bhie lacquered armour of Tsietsin, the lord of this
area. Will you run towards him, show him the
Shogun’s seal, and order him to tell you what is
going on (turn to 44), or wait for him to come to you
{turn to 56)?

35
As three of the green monsters rush the mound,

hoping to sweep you offit, you launch yourself intu
a great leap that carries you towards the tree-lops.
You hurtle above the monsters and land behind
them. They tum and run towards you. You have
only two choices: to run (turn to 173) or lo place your
back against a tree and light (tum to 183). However,
vou noticed something of interest as you sailed
above their heads. The Hat-topped heads are in fact
basins, each holding a small pool of water. The
balancing act which they appear to be doing is in
order to keep the water inside their basin heads.
36-37

36
The Phoenix’s eyes dull and its flames flicker and go
cut. It falls before you, all life expunged- But then,
suddenly, it erupts into flame once more, but this
time it is consumed in the fire until only ashes
remain.

Then, incredibly, another Phoenix, smaller this
time, bursts out of ithe ashes; it pauses in the air to
give a scream of exultation before taking to the skies
and disappearing (to your relief). Amazed at what
you have seen, you stand in thought fora moment,
before turning round and leaving through the door.
You find yourself back at the Hub. Return to § and
choose again, but you cannot choose an option you
have tried already.

37
Mustering as much authority as you can in the

unfortunate circumstances, you order the peasants
to free you from the trap. One by one the charcoal-
burners approach, wary that you may be tricking
them; when they see your plight they grin un-
pleasantly and discuss what they are going to do
with the trapped Samurai. The most popular idea is
to bury yau alive inside one of the charcoal ovens.
They strip bark from a nearby tree preparatory to
binding you. Will you tell them of the importance of
your mission (turn to 89), or warn them that they
will be haunted by spirits if they kill the Shogun’s
champion (turn to 101)?

35

there is a sudden crash, as loud as thunder, and
yins are racked with a surge of pain as something
slams into your back, sending you sprawling. Lose 3
Stamina points, If you still live, a rusted iron
portcullis has crashed down behind yuu, sealing off
any hope of rehurn- You press on- A fetid odour
reaches your nostrils and, up ahead, a milky
luminescence glows as you draw near. Tum to so.
39-42

39
Your lungs have been pierced by the three barbed
tines of the trident. You fall to the floor, coughing
blood. You have fallen into the hands of the Kappa,
from which there is no escape. They drag you mto
the gloomy depths of the river, even as you dic.

40

The gaoler moves on, waking other prisoners, slid-
ing black bread and stale water through flaps m the
doors. Presently he returns and opens your cell
door. But this time he has three soldiers with him-
Will you pretend to have been wounded and then
suddenly attack them {turn to 370), or pretend to
have been wounded and when they have taken you
out of the cell, grab a weapon and try to nin away
(turn to 380}?

41

If you have the skill of Karumijutsu and wish to use
it to leap over the heads of your assailants, turn to
35. Otherwise, you find yourself forced an to the
defensive by their powerful attacks. Your sword
flashes through the air as if a magicel barmer of
blades surrounded you, but your foes press in onall
sides. At Jast, one gets through your guard, and
takes you with ils claws. Lase 2 $raMina points. If
you are still alive, turn to 129.

42
The dragon rolls over and dies. Then, incredibly, it

fades out of existence before your very eyes, as if it

43

had never been. Around you the forest loses the
aura of mystery and magic thatseemed to encloseit,
You press on, following the track on the other side
of the clearing. Turn to 82.

43
the deference normally accorded to one of your

standing in society is sadly missing in the behaviour
of the first uplanders you meet. They are charcoal-
burners, gamed grey with the soot of their trade.
One of them, younger than the others, recognizes
the standard that flapsin the wind behind yourback
and scorns you: “Look, friends, it is the rightful
champion of the wrongful king. Where is your
master’s sword? Where is your master, without the
sword? Hasekawa, bless his shaven pate, is no
Shogun. You have no master, you are ronin.* Ronin
are Samurai who have no lord and have lost their
status. fhe peasant is insulting you and the Sho-
gun. The other charcoal-burmers shout at the
youngster to be quiet. Will you punish the youth
(turn to 59), or walk on asif you hadn‘t noticed (turn
to 77)?

44-46

44

You call out, in the name of Kihei Hasekawa, and
ask the Samurai rider what is going on. He canters
Knvards you, saying, “Bandit raiders! I am riding
now for the fart of Lord Tstetsin.” Suddenly, as he

nears you, he levels his spear and spurs his horse
On, catching you completely by surprise, and
gashing your arm. Lose 3 STAMINA points. You
must fight the treacherous Samurai.

SAMURAI HORSEMAN SKILL8 STAMINAQ

Tf you win, turn to 72.

45
You manae to keep going towards the edge of the

village and are canfronied by the flimsy svall of one
of the smal] houses, Putting your head down you
burst through the wall and out through the other
side, gaining time on the heads as.as they sail over
the roof. Only a few heads await you at the village's
edge. You must give battle again.

ROKURO-KLBI
if you sin, furn tog.

SKILLS STAMINAS

46
Notching a bowel-raker to your bow, you take care-
ful aim and prepart to kill the Shikome guards as
fastas you can. Roll two dice- If the resultis less than
your SKILL, tum to 236. If it is equal to or greater
than your SKILL, turn t 248.

47-49

The power of the black runesword drains your vital
life force: Lose 1 SKILL and 1 LUCK point. Return to
199 and fight on.

48
She stares at you quizzically. What item will you try
to use:

Ahorn? Turn to 86
A Potion of Waters of Knowledge? Turn to 96
A Helmet of Befuddlement? Turn to 114

[f you have none of these, turn to 130.

4

You cast yourself down i a the frathing whiteness
of the river, only to find, to your horror, that the
monsters have concealed sharpened stakes just be-
low the surface, upon which you have impaled
yourself. Lose 7 STAMINA points. If you are stil
alive, you painfully drag yourself off the stakes,
which have punctured your flesh in several places,
and are washed up on the far bank, ‘Turn lo 395-

hy by)

50

50

The smell grows stronger. Youcome out into a large
cavern, suffused with a sickly pale light, but the
source of the light is for the moment indiscernible-
Bones, old clothes and rusted weapons are strewn
about. Then you spat it. A huge glowing shape
comes towards you, An enormous gaping maw,
lined sith teeth, rises up to devour you. Two eyes,
massive discs of inscrutable blackness, stare at you,
alive with ancient evil. The body, supported by
hundreds of black scuttling legs, is bony and seg-
mented. It is a dirty shite colour and it is this that
gives off the pale glow, Itis a Mukade, some sori of
gigantic, forty-foot centipede. It ripples towards
you, intent on making you its next meal. If you have
the skill of Kyujutsu, and stil have your bow and
arrow, you may fire two arrows before it is upon
you. (You will not be able to redaim the arrows if
you win the fight.)

MURKADE

If you win, turn to 62.

SKILL?

/

STAMINA 20

51

51

You watch as Ikiru summons more shadow beings
to him. Then he waves and they rush to attack you,
each an amorphous mass of blackness, which tries
to engulf you. You must fight ten of these creatures
in a row, one by one. However, cach time you hit
one, Singing Death pulses with light and destroys
it utterly. Each of the ten Shadows has sKIL1 9,
STAMINA 1. [f you slay all ten, you skirt the pit
and confront Ikin:, face to empty black face. Turn
to 121.
52

52

The l'atsu stiffens in surprise and frustrated rage. “A
riddle, yes. Curse you, mortal!’ it bellows. For a
moment you think it is going to atlack you, but then
it subsides. ‘You have won your passage with hon-
our, and you are free to go. Before you do, listen to
my words:

‘If you should find yourself in the Tourney of the
Planes, and it comes to pass thal you slay the
Dai-Oni, invoke the Jizo of Demons thus: “A Sura is
here, O Jizo, Come and execute your purpose.

With that cryptic message, the Tatsu takes to the air
and is gone. In its place is a jade talisman, shaped
like a dragon. You pick it up and examine it. Itisa
Talisman of Fortuitous Gircumstance. Add 2 to your
LucK. You press on through the wood. Tum to 82.

53

53

Standing with your back to the white waters, you
heft your heavy ssvord. But the treacherous slime
sends you off balance. Your sword flashes past the
monsters head and it grips you in its powerful
claws. They rake you for 4 STAMINA points of
damage. If you are still alive, the scaly green man
flings your body into the frothing white water below
the ford as if you were no more than a rag doll-
Unfortunately for you the monsters have concealed
sharpened stakes just below the surface, upon
which you are now impaled. Lose 4 more STAMINA
points. If you still live, you painfully drag yourself
off the stakes, which have punctured your armour
in several places, and are washed up on the far
bank. Turn to 395.
54-55

34

You have finally defeated the Dai-Oni and it hes at
your fectin the sand of the Arena, breathing its last.
The ghostly crawd fades away and the Arena ts
empty. The Dai-Oni whispers painfully to you, “You
have won, mortal. The laws of the Tourney of the
Planes, set by the gods, bind me like fetters of steel.
Now | must grant you one request.’ What vill vou
ask:

‘What is the Secret of
Singing Death?’ Turn to 206
‘Tlow do [ slay Lkiru,
Master of Shadows?’ Tur t 188
Tlelp me in my quest to
slay lkiru-' Tum to 150
53

Once more the magician anticipates your approach.
‘Almost the last trial,’ he beams “You have done
well, young Samurai.” The priestess starts to Lrem-
ble as you near the gaping jaws and the fins of the
Sea Dragon, which is covered m serried spikes. The
Dragon rears its head as the magician departs once:
more, and then a gushing torrent of boiling water
swamps you both. The screams of the pnestess ning
in your cars as you lose consciousness and the Sea
Dragon swallows you whole.

-—-- -

.
th

56-57

56

The Samurai rider starts at the sight pf you. Then he
shouts, Tt is that milksop, the so-called Shogun,
Saher Hasekawa's lackey! Long live the new Sho-
sun, Tsietsin-‘Sama!’ He levels his spear and
charges at you. Lord Tsictsin has turned traitor. If
you are a master of the bow and wish to fire an
arrow, turn to Se. If not, you will have to receive his
charge: turn to 92-

57
The disembodied heads begin to scream and curse
horribly, smashing their skulls into your face and
arms. You struggle on, but are soon stapyering,
punch-drunk and unable to defend yourself. The
Rokuro-Kubi are stripping the flesh from your
bones even as you collapse. They will dine well
tonight.

58-60

58

Once again it leaps back to the other end of the
bridge. lt turns fully yisible once more and gives 4
strange ululating cry. To your horror the skcictal
badies floating in the bloody river stir and come to
life. Six of fhem begin to climb on to the bridge. If
you have the skill of Kyujutsu and wish ic t¥ to
shoot the undead Samurai, turn te 134. If not, turn
to 242.

The charcoal-burners number about ten and they
are clustered within a circle of low smoking mounds
which ate covered by newly cut farf. Grey smoke
rises from the maunds that conceal the wood which
is slowly being turned into charcoal at great heal.
Near by lie several staves ready to be burnt. Will you
order them to abase themselves at your feet (turn to
111), send an arrow winging iis way towards the
youth, if you have the skill of Kyujutsu (turn to 123),
draw your swords (turn to 135), or, if you have the
skill of Kararnijutsu, leap heroically among them
{turn to 147)?

60
You draw your sword, shouting, “You must help
me, or take the consequences! Her face blanches,
full of fear and terror, but then she points alyouand
a bolt of blue energy flics from her hands to explode
in front of you, an incandescent shect of blue flame
that jolts you painfully. Lose 2 STAMINA points. If
you still live, when you look again she has gone- If

61-62

you wish to follow her, tur te 7o. Otherwise you
can step through the door and return to the Hub. In
this case, return to Sand choose another option, but
not one you have tried already.

61

Halfway across the ford your feet slide out from
beneath you as you slip on the treacherous slime
and pitch he adlony into the frothing: white water.
Unfortunately for you the Kappa — for that is what
ihe scaly green men are called — have placed shar-
pened stakes just below the surface. You are im-
paled and without the protection of your armour
there is no hope of ever prising yourself olf the
painful trap.

62
You thnast your sword deep into one of its black
eyes and it rears back, uttcriny a shrill burbliny
shriek. It threshes wildly in its death-throes and you
have to leap back out of the way- Presently it sub-
sides and falls dead. A search of the cavern reveals
an exit at one end, and a heaped pile of ‘treasure’ —

63

mostly bunes and old useless weapons. However,
you do find 3 5 Gold Pieces, a shiny silver helmet of
ornate workmanship, a bottle of greenish-black
ichor-like liquid and a magnificently crafted iron
swar-fan, used in battles to signal troops, inlaid with
a pattern of ivory that makes you feel nauscous to
look at. Will you:

Pick up the war-fan and open it? Turn to 182
Drink some of the liquid? Turn to 196
Pat on the helmet? Turn to 210
Leave them alland go

through the exit? Turn to 222

63
You hurl the sword at the throne. It flies like an
arrow towards its target. As it touches the ning of
shadow’ around the throne, it bursts into light. Ina
flash of bright whiteness they are all but out of
existence, The light reveals Ikiru cowering in his
robes on the throne, but at the last moment, the
Master of Shadows dodges aside and the sword
embeds itself in his throne, where it stays, quiver-

ing,

64

Singing Death is now out of your hands. The power
it lent you is gone. Lose 451TAMIN A points, 2 SKILL
points and 2 LUCK points. lkiru gets to his feet and
whispers, “You fool.’ His voice is like a rustle of
leaves. Turn to 260.

64

You walk forward; the Shikome, giving offan odour
like rancid butter, regard you with dull, uninter-
ested eyes. You take them by surprise and leap to
the attack. Within seconds you have slain one, but
the other begins to howl wildly in fear. In moments
the castle is swarming with Samurai and Shikome.
You try to escape, but are soon spotted and are
buried under a wave of attackers. They take you
prisoner, making pibes about the Shogun and his
champion as they do so — they plainly know who
you are.

You are unceremoniously thrown into a small cellin
the palace dungeon. The gaoler, a large beefy man
in a stained leather jerkin, says jeeringly, ‘You will
be taken before the Shogun Tsictsin on the mar-
row.” Then he slams the massive, iron-studded,
oaken door of the cell in your face.

You are alone. They have taken your swords, and it
is this rather than the cruel gibes and the indignity
of capture that fills you with shame. Lose 1 Honour
point for their loss. There is nothing you can do but
wait for the morning. so you lic down on the
wooden palletin the corner and go to sleep. Turn to
316.
65—h6

65

Dusk comes and still you have not succeeded in
freeing: your leg from the chafing trap. A prickling
sensalion runs up and down your back: you are
convinced that the charcoal-bumers are watching
and waiting. The night is alive with the rustle of
leaves and small animals; then you are jolted into
vivid awareness by silence. The wind has dropped,
but the noises of all the animals have stopped, apart
from the padding of a heavy but stealthy beast. You
can hear it snuffling along } your trail, then a great
roar sends a flock of “birds screeching into the night.
You guess if must be a Shako-Gurubi, a forest
panther. You are almost helpless, trapped in the
darkness. Will vow seize your katana and cut off
your own leg below the knee so that you can at least
limp free and defend yourself (tum to 119), or flail
the sword blindly and hope that it doesn’t attack
(turn to 139)?

66
You step through the door marked ‘The Mountain
of Ineffable Holiness’. You are standing at the base
of 2 tall mountain peak - easily climbed, but the
climb would be long and exhausting. There is no
visible means of leaving this place; you have little
choice but to go up.

At last, vou heave yourself over the lip on to a
flattish area at the top of the mountain. You pasp in
surprise at the sight that preets you, A strange being
of noble stature, radiating an aura of grace and
a

67-68

power, looks down at you, its eyes twin orbs of
flame. It has a horse’s body, with a lion-like head
and huge feathered wings. lt is a Ki-Rin, aservitorof
the sods, a creature of wisdom, a representative and
warrior of law and goodness.

It looks you up and down for a moment. [f your
Honour is 5 or more, turn to 340. Ifitis less than 5,
turn 0 352-

67
The tident’s fines have pierced your armour and
broken two of your ribs. Lose 4STAMINA points. If
. you are still alive, you decide that discretion is the
better part of valour and leave the vicinity of the
ford. Tum to 335.

65

You step through the door marked ‘The Elder
Plain’. Before you stretches a breathtaking vista. A
grassy plain, studded with low hills and copses,
stretches away in all directions under a bright blue
| sky. The airts the freshest and purest you have ever
reathed. Near by a strange primitive-looking deer
bounds past. Directly behind you, a door hangs in

the air, the returm route to the Eiuh,

. Then a massive animal appears. lt is a huge sabre-
toothed Ger. It stares fixedly at you, and breaks
into a lope, which soon speeds up intoa Luil-fledged

P. ek ore run. What will vou do? Take out the Phoenix Ruby,

COI VYee if you haveit (turn to 244), fire an arrow at the tiger,

ii you have that skill (turn to 224), blow a horn, if

wt

69-70

you have one (turn to 234), or step back through the
door (return to § and choose again, but not an
option you have already tried)?

69

‘The disembodied heads begin to scream and curse
horribly, smashing their skulls into your face and
arms, You struggle on, but are soon staggerme,
punch-drunk and unable to defend yourself. In the
confusion, you have staggered back to the well and
you fall head over heels sixty feet mto cold water
belaw. Turn to 25.

70

You follow her trail into the wood, but moments
later it seems to vanish without trace. You wander
aimlessly through the woods, buf soon you are
completely lost. [tis asif the woods shiftand change
continuously, You are doomed to wander the En-
chanted Wood for eternity. Perhaps one day you
may stumble across the young woman. Youradven-
ture ends here.

The first peasant you meet is a middle-aged woman
with her head swathed in a tatty silk scarf. She
seems to be plunged into melancholy, but she takes
you to her dwelling, a low wooden building with a
hole in the side of one of the screens. There is a
straw-filled mattress for you to sleep on and hot
gruel on the stove. Will you mend the woman’s
house (turn to 215), or eat the gruel and settle down
to sleep (turn to 203)?

72

G2
With a powerful scything blow you cui deep into the
rider's les. Te gives a shout of pain and topples
from the saddle. Before he hits the ground, vou
have struck his head from his shoulders with one
sweep ol your katana.

Lord Tsictsin is a traitor, you realize: about ten of his
Samurai are rnnning amok in the village, looting
and killing the defenceless villagers. Will you leave
the village to its fate, deciding your mission is more
important {turn to 104)? Or will you run into the
village and attack the nearest Samurai (tum to 116)?
Or will you run into the village and shout out that
you are the Shosun’s champion and you challenge

anyone to an honourable duel {lurn to 128)? Or, if

you have the shill of Kyujutsu, wall vou enter the

village and dodge from house to house, picking off

the raiders as vou ¢o (turn to 140)?

73-74

73

Cautiously you inch your way across the pier of ruck
which is only a few inches below the surface af the
river. Fhe green slime which covers the rock is
treacherous underfoot. Two scaly green monsters
surge powerfully up from the green depths and
climb nimbly on to the pier of rock. They have
vicious webbed claws and seem untroubled by the
slime underfoot. Will you hurtle yourself off the
ford into the frothing white water (turn to 49),
retreat from the ford and run, hoping to find a safer
place to cross the river (turn to 105), or, if you have
the skill of Kvujutsu, try to scare them off using a
humuming-bulb arrow (turn to 21)?

74
You have finally defeated the Dai-Oni and it lies at
your feet in the sand of the Arena, breathing its last.
the ghostly crowd fades away and the Arena is
empty. The Dai-Oni whispers painfully to you, ‘You
have won, mortal. The laws of the Tourney of the
Plenes, set by the gods, bind me like fetters of steel.
=e =. Af
. — -
«= = |
Of +A — ie
ae “7
poe a pte
(FP 4 =, ss
— ~~ _™ i ~~, a
“= rs 84 is) A523 774 y
ae Ne ya Pont (iPS) a4 F das
* ' PIE Ts | Sele > +s
— : wr AES A OSS Po, PZ
—, ’ ne ; é ~ 1" Pree SP ee ve) “se
> ’ , SIPS) ; ¥ 141-25 ot
pent 55 TARY SF eg
¢ J A ge ys p24
: R Cas v4 ‘7

persian

ase iL

a

75

Now Imust grant you one request.’ The magic ofthe
Dai-Oni fades a fittle with its defeat. You may
restore 7 point of SxILt, 7 pointoflLuck ar 2 points
ofstTamin4, if you lost any of these in your battle.
What will you ask of the Dat-Oni:

‘What is the Secret of
Singing Death?
Thow do Islay Thiru,

Turn to 206

Master of Shadows?’ Turn to 188
‘Help mein my quest to
slay lkiru.’ Turn to 150
75

As you approach the statue of Hammurabi, Lord of
the Flies, the magician appears again and the statue
comes to life, flexing its lorty-foot wings. The
glistening multi-faceted eyes seer to stare through
you and there is a buzzing all around, The magician
disappears once more and insects bewin to attack
your eyes and skin. Hammurabi's servants have
come to protect him. Soon the swarm is inches thick
all over you, but the priestess begins to chant an
entrancing lullaby. It is the Song of Swarms. The
insects become sleepy and start to fall off you until
they litter the ground. The priestess continues her
singing and you sec that Hammurabi's body 1s
swaying in time with her chant. She is an acolyte of
the cult of the Lord of the Flies. She bows down in
reverence before Hammurabi and your way to the
fountain is open. Turn te 95-
76

76

The walls of the Arena begin to shimmer, fade and
dissolve away. Something else appears in its stead,
a black, dark place. You are at the end of a long,
pillared hall of black marble. Braziers of glowing
coal sive off an eerie glow and shadows flicker and
weaye, chasing one another across the fluor. At the
end of the hall is a huge pit, from swhich noxious
fumes spiral upward. Beyond the pitis a grotesquely
carved throne of dull stone. The workmanship is
extraordinary; peaks, pinnacles, gargoyles and
Strange twisted shapes adorn it, The effect is to
wreathe the throne in shadows. You can just make
out a cowled figure sitting upon it. It seems to be
staring at something in front of the throne. On a
Stand before the throne rests a magnificent no-
dachi, 2 Gyvo-handed sword, in a scabbard of bright
filigreed gold. Tt seems completely out of place in
this hall of shadowy gloom and brooding evil. You
recognize Singing Death, the Sword af the Samurai,
and your heart is uplifted.

then the cowled head jerks up in surprise. Beneath
the cow! there is nothing but blackness. A sibilant
whisper hisses forth, a quict exhalation of breath.
‘Who dares to visit Onikaru, the Pitof Demons, and
tneur the wrath of Ikiru, Master of Shadows?"

If you know the secret of Singing Death, firm to 152.
If vou do not, turn to gg.
77-78

77

You walk quickly past the smoking turf-covered
mounds tended by the charcoal-bumers and they
taunt you with cries that you have deserted the
Shogun and are fleeing Tachiman in fear lest the
Shogun fall and his favourites be executed. Indeed,
you could expect no better, for it has sometimes
been your duty to kill traitors and enemies of your
master and their families will never forget you. Your
conscience is troubled, for you have failed to defend
the good name of the Shogun. Subtract 1 fram your
Honour. Turn to 93.

78
You step through the door marked ‘The Endless
Sands of Akhon’. Instantly beads of sweat appear
on your forehead as your body is assailed by a
terrible heat. Below a yellow sky, in which hangs a
sun larger than you have ever seen, stretches mile
upon mile of desert — the endless sands of Akhon.
Behind you hangs a door, the way back to the Thub.

Suddenly a harsh cry, an ear-splitting shriek, fills
the air. A strange bird is arrowing down out-of the
sky. Itis larger than the largest eagle and its eyes are
red and glowing. Its feathers are gold and metallic-
looking, but the strangest thing of all is that yellow
flame seems to play lightly all over it, without
consuming it. It is a Phoenix. If you have the
Phoenix Ruby, turn to 348. Lf not, turn to 360.
/
lt is not long before you are attacked by another
giant trap-door spider which launches iiself out of
its burrow just at the moment when a gangly-Iegged
water spider scuttles up to attack you. You must
fight them beth.

SKILL STAMINA
{RAP-DOOR SPIDER 10 12
WATER SPIDER 8 10

IF you win, turn ta §7.

80
The Samurai rider is wearing heavy battle armour-
You will have to use armour-piercer arrows against
him. You may fire your bow twice before the rider
reaches you, Roll two dice for each shot:if the result
is less than your SKiLL, then the arrow draws blood
and your target loses 2 STAMINA points.

Chen he closes in, his spear aimed at your throat.
Turn to 92, but remember te deduct any STAMINA
loss vou inilicled on the Samurai with your arrows.

8x

 B

The battle rages on, but when you have struck
blows thal would have killed any normal man, the
silver Samurai falls to his knees and offers his head
to vour blade, as if acknawledying your mastery.
You cannot harm him and so you bid him mise. You
fought bravely and nobly. T shall bear my sword
beside you as you take your next steps in the En-
chanted Garden,” he says. Will you now take the
path that leads to the priestess and the demon
statues (turn to 185), or that which leads to Ham-
murabi, the Lord of the Flies (turn to 165)?

82~83

82
Eventually you come out of the Forest of Shadows,
in front of you the track becomes a road thal runs
across an ancient stone bridge, over a river. It is the
Hiang-Kiane River, and the bridge is the Hagakure
Bridge. Beyond it, on the horizon, rise the Shios‘ii
Mountains.

As you walk on tothe bridge evervthing around you
changes; if i5 as if you had stepped into another
world. All the landmarks are the same — the bridye,
the mountains and so on — but the sky is darker
now. Ihe river to either side of the bridge is red as
blood and skeletal bodies, skulls, bones and limbs
float on its surface.

Before you stands a hideous apparition. It is a
Samurai warrior, but one who has been long dead.
A grinning skull rests inside the helmet and each
skeletal hand clutches a sword. The flag attached to
its back, adorned with skulls, reads ‘Evil Death’.

2 The undead warrior leaps into the air and comes
Bee Stee : 4 down before you. You must fight it.
Pine. Sa Se, | UNDEADSAMURAL sxIELg stamina tt
trays = xy" = ~ “3 ~ ~ : . . “> 2 . u ses = “ .
oS uadeaye OF ge Se if you reduce its STAMINA to 5 ar less, turn Lo 32.

83
Hoping to give battle before the green men can drag
your armour into the gloomy depths, vou race
across the pier of rock, which is only inches below
the surface of the river. Unfortunately the green
slime that covers the pier is extremely slippery. Test

-—

— se

84-86

your Luck, butadd 4 to the dice score because you are
trying to dash heedlessly across the ford. If you are
Lucky, turn to 97. Ifyou are Unlucky, turn to 61.

You cross the courtyard and walk up to the Shr
kome. They reck of rancid butter and eye vou dully-
‘T have an important message for Lord Tsietsin,” you
say, tryiny to sound authoritative. One of them
grunts and growls, ‘Password,’ Realizing you don't
know it, you hesitate. ‘Well?’ growls the Shikome,
readying his spear. If you have the skill of lajjutsu,
turn te 252. 1f nol, turn to 268.

85
You have shattered the heads of many of the elders,
but several more are now crowding in around you-
You must flee. Test your Lick, If you are Lucky, turn
to 45. If you are Unlucky, turn to 57.

86

You put the horn to your lips and blow an ear
shattering blast, but all the woman does is clap her
hands over her ears and shriek in pain before run-
ning away into the forest. If you wish to follow her,
turn. to 70. Otherwise you can step through the door
and return to the Hub- In this case, return to 8 and
choose another option, but not one you have tried
already.

87-88
87

There are no more spiders to impede your progress
and you forge on. The rain lifts a little and the
water-level drops to reveal a long dyke leading
north out of the Spider Fens, The dyke takes you as
far as the foothills of the Shios’ii mountains, where
you use goat-tracks to speed your journey. At last
you are climbing one of the taller peaks. Tum ta 8.

You catch the guard’s sword-arm and twist, send-
ing him crashing into the wall where he slumps
unconscious. You may take his sword, restoring
your SKILL to normal, but he does not have a
wakizashi or shortsword. If you have the skill of
Ni-to-Kenjutsu, you cannot use it until you have
another shortsword. Nor may you use Kyujutsu
until you get another bow.

The corridor ends at a stairwell. The steps go up and
down. Will you ascend the stairs (turn to 208) or
descend them (turn to 122)?
89-91

Stressing the wise ways of the Shogun, you tell
them of your mission. Unforhinately these peasants
are not loyal to your Jord, and they hope he never
remains Singing Death. You can only watch as ther
bring a cartload of glowing charcoal from one of the
ovens and empty it all over you. It is a painful but
quick death.

90

The Dai-Oni casts a spell with its other hand, send-
ing a burst of electrical energy through its iron club.
Lose an extfa 2 STAMINA points. lf you still live,
Tetum ta 292 and fight on.

gt
Inside the cave, a beautiful woman lies ona ledge of
stone. Her eyes sparkle malevolently as she invites
you to dine with her on the heart of a human baby.
You reply that you are an honourable Samurai and
will not come near her. The beautiful woman
changes into a wizened and demonic hag before
your yery eyes. She isa Nushi, a monster appearing
as a beautiful woman who can command all the
beasts around her den to do her will. Then you
must fight my pets, Samurai,’ she says. She calls
flutingly, and the cave entrance is blocked by three
giant spiders, a lrap-door spider which leaps almost
on tap af you, a powerful earth spider and a gangly
legged water spider. Maybe you could have de-

g2

teated two of them, but not three such monsters
together. Your adventure ends here.

g2
The spear-head hurtles towards you. Roll tvo dice:
if the result is Tess than or equal to your SKILL, you
have successfully parried the thrust. Tfnot, it gashes
your shoulder and you lose 3 STAMINA points.

In any case, the Samurai wheels his horse round
and stabs down as you try to cut him from the
saddic.

SAMURAI WARRIOR

SKILLS

STAMINAG

lf you win, turn to 72.

——oOODhUhl

93-94

93
‘The taunts of the charcoal-burners sail down the

breeze as you turn a bend in the road that skirts the
wood where they cut the staves to be turned into
charcoal. The cracking of dry twigs alerts you as four
of the peasants, brandishing staves, run out in an
attempted ambush. The ather charcoal-burners are
not far behind, having used a trail through the wood
as a shori cut. You put your back toa tree, so that no
more than two can atiack ata time. You must give
battle,

SKILL STAMINA
First CHARCOAL-BURNER 6 10
Second CHARCOAL-BURNER 7 9

If you kill the first of your attackers without being
hurt, turn to 347. If you have been wounded by the
time you have killed one of them, turn to 365.

94
You advance resolutely down the hall, determined
to slay Ikiru. The figure on the throne gives a
ghostly laugh, a faint spine-tingling ttter of mad-
ness. Then it gestures. To your horror, a shadowy
form floats up out of the pit and takes shape before
you. lt is vaguely man-like, but with a homed head

and massive taloned claws. lt is a Shadow Demon,
only semi-corporeal, a creature from the nether
regions, and you must fight it.

STIADOW DEMON SKILL9 STAMINA 10

Each time you hitit, roll one die. If the resultis even,
it loses 2 STAMINA points. Lf the result is odd, your
blow does not connect fully, passes through some of
its insubstantial flesh and it loses only 1 point of
STAMINA. If you defeatit, turn to 260.

95-96

95
You walk beyond the shimmering magnificence of
the Lord of the Flies to the fountain. A cascade of
water pours forth from the centre of a large while
rock into the marble-rimmed pawl. Cimbing plants
mirror the are of the falling water and they glisten,
kept forever wet by the spray thrown up from the
cascade. Set upon one of the marble blocks at the
side of the pool is a silver ewer and a chalice. The
waters are clear and cool. If you wish to drink from
them, furn to 161. If you decide to fill the ewer, turn

to 243.

96
Her wits seem addled insome way. Perhaps Waters
of Knowledge may help to clear them. You offer the
bottic to her. Without thought, she listlessly takes
the bottle, and gulps it dawn. She freezes instantly,
her eyes suddenly filling with bright intelligence.

‘lam Eleanor the Enchantress. It was Ikiru who sent
me insane with a spell!’ She looks at you gratelully,
‘And Iknow of you and your quest. | shall be atyour
side in the Place of Battle.”

She bows and leaves the glade. Note on your Aqzen-
ture Shee? that Eleanor the Enchantress 1s your ally.
Noty you must return to the Hub, by passing
through the door. Refurn to 8 and choase another
option, but not one you have already tried.
97-95

97

Halfway across the ford your feet slide out fram
beneath you as vou slip on the treacherous slime.
You are about t& pitch headlony into the frothing
white water below the ford when your [oot catches
against a large water-snail and you regain your
balance enough to teeter to the other bank. You are
too late to stop the scaly vreen monsters throwing
your armour into the river, and then they Lurn to
give battle. You take on the first three. They have
vidous webbed claws which will do 3 STAMINA
points of damage to you every time they hit, since
you are not protected by armour.

SKILL STAMINA
First KAPPA § 14
Second KAPPA § 12
Third KAPPA 7 13

lf vou reduce one of the Kappa to 45TAMINA points
or less, turn t 32.

98
You find yourself standing on a low hummock of
solid earth. Around you lies a great swamp. It
bubbles and heaves, a morass of stinking mud and
thick liquid. Twisted trees and plants stniygle up
cut of the mess. A door hangs behind you in space,
the route back to the Hub.

Suddenly a femendous serpent, with eves glitter-
mg like black diamonds, bursts out of the mire and
rears up before you, ready to whip its head down
99-101

and bite you in two. If you wish to fight the serpent,
tum to 246. If you would rather try to use an ifem
against it, turn to 258.

Yau are completely withoul Honour. As you cast
your mind back over your actions since you began
your quest for Smging Death, you realize that you
acted dishonourably at almost every turn. Without
Honour you are nothing, vour life is worthless.
There is only one honourable action left to you. You
must commit seppuku, lake your own life. You
summon up the courage necessary to fall upon your
katana, and drive yourself forward on to the blade
until you die. At least in this last detail, the manner
af your parting from the world, you have acted
according to the code of the Samurai.

100

You walk across the courtyard towards the palace,
strutting like a newly appointed general. The Shi-
kome, who reek like rancid butter, eve you dully. As
you walk up to them, looking past them as if they
were not there, you flash the sea] of the Shogun at
them, hoping they will nvt recognize it. Your bold
and arrogant manner fools the Shikome compiciely
and they salute smartly as you stride past them info
the palace! Turn to 458.

101i
The impudent youth suggests that they sew up your
mouth, ears and nose before they kill you, so that

102-103

your spiril cannot escape your body to haunt them,
but the mention of spirits has scared the others into
letting vou go. The youth sees your baleful glare and
leaves while you are being set free, His father, a
crook-legged old fellow, creaks painfully to his
knees and humbly begs your pardon for the insull-
ing behaviour of hisson. The others follow suit as he
offers to show you a safe village near by, where you
may stay the night. Will you make them swear an
oath of allegiance before going on (turn to 163), or
command the old man te show you to the sanctuary
of the village {tum to 179}?

102
The Dai-Oni laughs and steps back. It mutters
arcane words and casts a Spell of Misfortune on
you. Lose r LUCK point. Return to 292 and fight on.

103

All goes still for a moment as you lie prone on the
ledge, then there is a dull rumbling from the earth
and the ground starts to shake once more. The
tremor is strong and there is a great cracking noise in
the wall of slate. The ceiling of the cave crashes
down with an enormous report and slivers of grey
rock fly everywhere. If you had taken refuge in the
cave mouth, you would have been flattened. Turn
to 273.

oe es nad
104-107

104
You turn around and leave, heading back to the
main road. The cries of the defenceless villagers
echo across the uncaring countryside. Lose 1 Tion-
our point for your callous action. Turn to 24.

105

There is no pursuit as you hastily leave the ford
behind you. You have lost your armour, and with-
oul ils protection you will lose 3 STAMINA points
instead of 2 every lime you are hit in battle. The
Shogun‘s champion is supposed to acquit himself
more nobly than this. Without your armour you
stand much less chance of succeeding in your quest,
and by deserting it you have dishonoured the Sho-
gun, your lord, far it was he who gave it to you.
Subtract 2 from your Honour and turn to 263.

106

You come out of the vallcy io be faced by a large and
forbidding forest, stretching away for miles to either
side. The road disappears into its depths likea stone
into water. You recognize it as the Forest of Sha-
dows, and you must go Unrough it. Moichi smules
wanly at you and says, Thave heard only evil about
the Forest since the theft of Singing Death, my lord-
Must we. . .?’ You nod your head: “Yes, we must,
Moichi.’ You stride forward. Turn to 124-

107
The map shows that the path leading to the scarlet
pagoda is the westerly path which nims along a dyke

108-109

at the edge of a mist-coyered lake. IF you would like
to try to follow the route all the way to the scarlet
pasoda, turn to 317. If not, tum to 17 and choase
again.

108
You emerge into a small storeroom. A doorway
leads out into the castle courtyard. Another leads
into the palace itself. Will you yo inta the palace in
search of Tsietsin (turn te 158), or don the armour of
the guard you have just killed and try to bluff your
way out through the castle gates (turn to 168)?

109
Suddenly a stream of shadowy blackness passes
from Ikiru’s sword and begins to course across your
body like a mesh of interwoven cords. Wherever il
touches you it burns agonizingly. You stagger back,
howling in pain, as the web of blackness begins to
constrict, crushing the life out of you.

When you are dead, your spirit is taken into the Pit
of Demons, where you will become a servant of
Tkiru, to be called upon whenever he should wish to
do so.

110-111

110

You step through the door marked ‘The Fternal
Tower. Everything changes. You are standing al
the top of a fortified tower; battlements surround
you. The terrain around vou is constantly changing,
sometimes wood, sometimes plains; blue sky, red
sky, and so on —as if the Tower were shifting [rom
plane to plane and world to world. In front of you
stands a massive warrior, his face bearded and
mature, a veteran of many battles. [is armour is
strange and outlandish lo you: it covers him [rom
head to foot. Behind him stand eight others, their
faces visored and hidden. Iheir armour is gold,
with a white surcoat covered in blue circles.

The man speaks: ‘Welcome to the Eternal Tower,
contestant. We are the Knights of the Golden Com-
pany, and if you wish us to aid you in the Tourney of
the Planes, you mustanswer me this. Do you return
t> us the war-fan of our king?’

If you have 2 war-fan, with a symbol of nine gold
arrows, 2 blue circle and a white background, turn
to 186. If you do not, turn to 200.

tit
The eldest of the charcoal-burnets, a crook-lepeed
fellow, creaks painfully to his arthritic knees and
humbly begs your pardon for the insulting he-
haviour of his son. The others follow suit as he
offers to show you a safe village near by in which &)
spend the night. Looking up to see your slern
eapression he begs vou te take his son asa slave that
i112

you may teach him humility, but he beseeches you
not to kill him, Will you make them swear an oath of
allegiance before going on (turn to 163), or com-
mand the old man to show you to the sanctuary of
the village (turn to 179)?

112
You follow the thin woodland trail that winds and
bends through the clustered boles of the Forest of
Shadows. The trees are so clasely packed that only
fraction of the sun’s rays filter down, in shafts of
dusky light filled with motes of dust that Hoat
slowly in the air. It is dim and murky, and the
sounds of forest life intrude faintly on the edge of
your consciousness as you walk on, asifina waking
dream.

Suddenly you stumble out into a broad clearing,
your eyes filled with light. You shake your head to
clear it, when a sound in the air causes you to look
up, A great dragon is floating down towards you- It
has a long sinuous body, like a massive serpent, but
with four clawed legs. Its head is horned with great,
elaring, amber eyes. It has no wings, but seems to
be walking on air. It is a Tatsu, a wingless dragon
that can walk on sky, sea and land. It settles before
you, hovering a few feet off the ground. Its amber
eyes regard you placidly, then it speaks in a nch,
deep voice, resonant with knowledge and power-

‘Welcome ta the heart of the forest, mortal. 1am the

wuardian — and there are certain celestial law's that
bind me.‘ It seems to smile at you, if dragons can be

:

|
|
|

113-114

said to smile at allf “You must answer two riddles I
shall put to you. [f you answer them correctly, you
may pass through the forest. Hf not, well. . . then I
shall eat you. And you cannot mim. No one can pass
through this forest safely without first dealing with
me. Ihen it laughs as if its last few words were
obvious. Turn to 2.

113

The silence around vou is haunting; the mist kills
even the sound of the water lapping at the great
columns of stone. Leaping from one to another, you
have just gone out of sight of the dyke when the
water-level seems to rise all around the nearby
Pillars of basalt. Suddenly a beast of unimaginably
huge dimensions looms out of the lake, causing a
tidal wave which sweeps you into the water. The
Kraken has risen and its huge tentacles, each as
thick as your chest, thrust you whole into its gaping
beak. Only giants dare risk the giant’s causeway
and even they will bring aman or two to appease the
Kraken’s hunger.

114
You take out the helmet. This woman’s wits seemed
addled in some way; perhaps the helmet may help
fo cure her. You offer it to her but her eyes widen in
tear. “No! she breathes in horror, before fleeing into
the woods. If you wish to follow her, turn to 7a.
Othenmvise you can step through the door and re-
tur to the Hub. In this case, return to 8 and choose
another option, but not one you have tried already.
_ ety eet iil

4115-116

1i5
You have shattered the heads of many of the elders,
bul scores more are now crowding around you. You
must flee. Tesi your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to
69. Lf you are Unlucky, turn to 57-

116
You dash into the village. People are running about
in fear, chased by Tsietsin’s Samurai, and some
buildings are burning ferociously. Near by, 2
Samurai in magnificent green and blue lacquered
armuur is looting the body of an old man he has just
slain, The sight of this rebel dishonouring himself
and the name of all Samurai in such a manner fills
you with disgust. You stride forward and cut him
down swith one blow, your razor-sharp sword
almost slicing him in Hyo. He screams once. Several
of the trailor Samurai turn at his shout and three of
them spring towards you. One of them recognizes
you and says, “The Shogun’s — sorry, the sx-
Shogun‘s champion. Kill the mangy, flea-ridden
goat!’ They come at you in a rush, wildly bran-
dishing their swords, You must fight them all at
once. If you have the skill of Karumijutsu, you may

117-119

subtract 1 from all their Attack Rolls for this combat
only, as you jump and leap over them, trying to
dodge their blows.

SKILL STAMINA
First SAMURAI 6 1
Second SAMURAI 8 8
Third SAMURAT 7 6

If you kill all three of them, turn to 154.

117

You try to bring your sword down to the green
water in a slashing mation in order to slice through
the net, but the monster is too quick for you. Jt flings
the net around your shoulders and pulls you from
your precarious perch on the slime-coveted rock.
Your sword does you no good as you are dragged
below the surface, surrounded by the scaly ereen
monsters. There is nothing you can do, You have
fallen into the hands of the Kappa, from which there
is NO escape.

118
‘The Dai-Oni howls in jay and then casts a Spell of
Confusion on you. Lose £5KILL point. Return to 292
and fight on.

11g

With a great cry you hack off your own leg at the
second cut, reel from the trap and collapse almost
unconscious. Through a mist of pain you hear the
beast eating vour severed foot, while you tie a strip
119

of leather ina tourniquet to stop the spurting blood.
Lose 7 STAMINA points. If you survive, the rest of
the night passes in horror, as you ty to remain
conscious lest the beast attack. In the dawn hght you
see your mistake: it was not a forest panther but a
hyena, which mimics the roar of the big cat. You
have crippled yourself for nothing and you will
have to turn back in disgrace, for your adventunng
clays are over.

120

120

The sound of many drumming hoofs comes to you
from ahead. You stop and are about to min up the
hillside, when a patrol of twenty or more of Lord
Tsietsin’s men appears ahead. At the sight of you a
shout goes up and they charge forward. You cannot
escape and a battle ensues. You fight mightily,
slaying several, but there are too many of them and
you are overwhelmed. To your horror, they slay
Moichi out of hand, calling him a traitor — but you
knew him to be the only one among them who was
truly loyal. Soon you are securely bound and strap-
ped over a horse’s back, ‘Lord Tsietsin will be
pleased with this little catch,” one of them quips.

They take vow to the castle you passed on the road
You are led into the courtvard, where many of Lord
Tsietsin’s Samurai retainers pather around to laugh
and mock you. You are unceremoniously thrown
into a small cellin the palace dunyeon. The yawler, a
large beefy man in a stained leather jerkin, says
jeeringly, “You wall be taken before the Shogun
Tsietsin on the morrow.’ Then he slams the nass-
ive, trom-studded, vaken door of the cell in your
Face.

You are alone. They have taken your swords, and it
is this rather than the cmuel gibes and the indignity
of capture that fills you with shame. Lose 1 Honour
pomt for their loss. There is nothing you can do but
wait for the morning, so you lic down on the
wooden pallet in the comer and go to sleep. Tum to
316.
121-124

121
You are in front of the throne. Tkiru rises up like a

shade; you stare into the cowl, to see only shadowy
nothingness, the face of evil. Ikiru points at you and
bolts of dark energy leap from his fingers towards
you. lf your! lonouris 6 or more, turn to 189. Hitis 5
or less, turn to 131-

122
At the bottom of the stairs, a damp, rough-cut
tunnel mins ahead into darkness. ‘tps! your Luck. If
you are Lucky, turn to 16. If you are Linlucky, turn
to 38.

123
In the time it takes 2 woodpecker to tap the bole of a
tree twice, vou have sent an arrow winging its way
towards the youth. Tle has no lime to dadge, Roll
two dice. If the score is less than YOU SKILL, your
dim was true (turn to 207). If you rall equal to or
greater than vour SKILL, turn te 351,

124

As vou enter the forest, vou feel suddenly alone.
Looking back, you cannot see Moichi anywhere.
Retracing your steps, you see him running back
towards the valley. Obviously his fear of the forest
oveTcame his ‘lovalty’ to you. Cursing him for a
useless coward, among other thin m5, Fou head back
into the forest. Turn to 112,
125-126

125
The dyke runs for mile upon mile, the product of an
ancient civilization that lived in the delta before the
eternal mist descended. After a while a winding
path leads off into the marsh. If you wish to turn
aside on to the path, turn to 339. IF you continue
along the dyke, turn to 387.

126

You open the door marked ‘The Enchanted Wood’
and step through. You find yvaurself in a wooded
glade. It is strangely quiet, as if no woodland crea-
tures frolicked in this wood. The air is heavy with
sorcery ~ Fou can almost smell it. You know that if
you were to travel in this wood you would become
lost in moments, perhaps for ever. Behind you
hangs the doortothe Huband you resolve toleaveit
in sight. Just then, a young woman dressed in rich
robes of green steps into the clearing. Her beauty is
astunding, but her eves seem empty and listless.
She stares at you vacantly. Oddest of all, a nimbus
of crackling blue energy plays about her hands. You
ask her who she is and if she will aid you against the
Dai-Oni-

‘Who am I? Ino longer know. As for my aid, that is
not lightly won,’ she says, her brows knitted in
puzzlement as if itis hard for her to speak. Will you
attack her and try to force her to help you (turn ta
60}, or (rv to use some item you think may be of use
(turn to 48)?
127-128

127

As you Tun to the ford’s edge, three scaly green
figures fumber ponderously out of the river and
climb the bank at the spot where the other picces of
your armour now lie. They are larger than men,
swith curiously flat-topped heads, and they move 45
if balancing an invisible weight on top of them. As
you pause, two more break the surface near by. Will
you run away, hoping to find a safer place to cross
theriver (turn to 105), move slowly across the pier of
rock (tur to 73), of race across to where the scaly
monsters are picking up your armour (turn to 83)?

128

You run into the village and then shout the chal-
lene at the top of your voice. Many of the Samurai
turn and stare as you tell them who you are. Onc ol
them sleps forward and says, ‘We no longer owe
allegiance tv Kihei Hasekawa, and follow the new
Shogun, Isietsin, but we are still Samurai. Come
then, let us duel.’ He steps forward, drawing his
sword, He stands before you, sword raised over his
head, its tip pointed at your throat. You must fight
three of these Samurai, but they camcat youone ata
time, in an honourable (but biased) fashion.

SKILL STAMINA
Tirst SAMURAT 7 9
Second SAMURAI! ) B
Third SAML RAT 7 9

If you kill all three of them, turn to 190-

129-131

129 .
Desperate measures are called for if you are to avvid
death at the hands of the sealy green monsters. Will
you try a trick suggested by the element brimstone
(turn to 234), has the thought of their strange flal-
topped heads entered your mind (turn te 255), ar
will you perhaps pretend to be about to cast a spell
on them (turn to 277)?

130

This woman's wits seem addled in same way, but
there doesn’t seem to be anything you can do. If you
wish to try to force her to help you, turn to 60.
Otherwise you can retum to the Hub by steppiny
through the door behind you. If yo: do this, return
to 8 and choose again, but not an option you have
already tried.

131
The bolts slam into you, simultaneously cursing,
chaning and crippling you. Lose 1 SKILL, 1 LUCK
and 4STAMtINA points. Ifyou are stillalive, you Teel
back and Ikiru hisses with joy. But then vou regain
your senses and leap toward him wielding Singing
Death. Turn to 199.

132-133

132

A voice shouts ahead, ‘Hida, is that you?’ When you
do not reply, there is a muffled curse and the sound
of someone running. A guard bursts into the torch-
light and gasps in astonishment at the sight of you.
‘Escaped? How .. .?’ But his sentence is unfin-
ished as you leap to the attack.

GLARD SKILL? STAMINAY

If you win, turn fo 142.

133

The clacking - continues and then suddenly the head-
man's head lifts cleanly off his shoulders and floats
into the air, followed by the heads of everyone else
in the village. They are -Rokuro-Kubi, you realize in
horror, undead whose heads detach from their
bodies at night in order to hunt. The flying heads
dart at you, jaws snapping viciously. You must fight
them as if they were a many -headed monster.

ROKURO-KUBI

If you win, turn to 415.

SKILL11 STAMINA17

134-135

1}
if you have an arrow with white eagle feathers,
crafted by Tsunewara, and wish to fire it, turn to
192. Otherwise, you draw and loose an ordinary
arrow (turn to 164)- ;

135

One of the charcoa-burners pulls the moist turf
frum the nearest charcoal oven, and billowing
smoke and flame belch forth. Some of them seize
Staves with which to attack you, others edye ner-
vously back into the wwoods behind the mounds.
Test your Luck, It you are Lucky, turn to 293. If yau
are Unlucky, turn to 307. -

136-137

136

You look around. Barracks, stables and so on fine
the walls. Across the castle courtyard is a square
Stone keep, with pagodac-like raofs and carved
gables, the palace of Lord Tsietsin. Bul it is the two
palace guards flanking the doors that really draw
Four attention. They are Shikome, vile humanoid
beings, but hairy as apes, and with claws, fangs and
horrible snouted faces. They are dressed in dirty
and tattered imitations of Samurai armour,
although their weapons seem in excellent condi-
tion. The presence of Shikome can only mean that
Tsjetsin is in league with Tkiru, Master of Shadows.
[sietsin will be in the palace, and it seems even
more important than before to slay him.

Will you disguise yourself in the armour of the
guard you have just knocked cnt, and, with Moichi,
approach them, saying you havea message for Lord
Tsietsin (turn to 148}, pretend that you are Moichi’s
prisoner and that he is taking you to sce Tsietsin
(turn to 169}, or, if you have the skill of Kyujulsu, try
to pick off the guards as quickly and as silently as
possible (turn to 170)?

137
A man wearing the ceremonial robes of a court
inagician sleps out from behind a rose hedge and,
beaming cordially, bids you welcome to the En-
chanted Garden. ‘Only by drinking from the spring
may you find vour way back to the land of Iachi-
man,’ he says. “You must keep to the paths at all
138

times. This is a place of peril, but if you triumph the
reward is high indeed.’ With that he disappears ina
theatrical puff of smoke. The paths to the fountain
all lead past the statues. Will you take the path that
leads to the silver Samurai (turn tv 379) or te the
priestess and the demon (turn to 349)?

138

You have decided you are ready to face the Dai-Oni
and his allies, so you open the door marked ‘I'he
Place of Battle’ and step through. You find yourself
ina huge arena, but all the tiered seats are empty -it
appears they have been that way for millennia. But
as you appear, ghostly igures seem to malerialize in
the seats, men and women ofa byyone age, talking,
gesticulating, laying bets on the oulcome of the
battle, as if they had been waiting for this moment
for aeons, even in death.

As you stand on the sandy arena floor, those allies
you had noted on your Adventure Sheet appear be-
hind you, each saying, or silently imparting, a mes-
sage of reassurance and support. If you have not
managed to win any allies, then you stand alone.

Before you stands the Dai-Oni; it is wondrous to
look upon, save for its face which is radiant with
evil. Behind it are ranged three monsters, its allies.
ihe first is an enormous giant toad-being, slimy and
warty, with a mouth almost as large as its head. The
second is a giant insect, nol unlike a grolesquely
huge praying mantis, in plated armour of chitin, its

mandibles working horribly. The third is a huge
138

fifteen-foot man of bronze, with the legs of a goat.
lis bronze skin is green and pitted with age. How-
ever, its eyes are two orbs of red flame, glowing
with poser.

The Dai-Oni laughs maniacally and says, “At least
you managed to reach the Place of Battle, morial —
but you will not leave it alive! These,’ and it gestures
at its followers, ‘are my demon fiends. Graalsch,
devour!’ it says. The enormous toad-thing hops
forward, The ghostly cowd seems to roar in anti-
cipation.

If you have noallies, turn to 254. If vou do, they wait
expectantly for your command. Somehow you seem
ta know that the rules of the Arena dictate that
battles can only be between single entities. Who will
you send against the toad-being? (Obviously you
may send only those beings you have recorded as
Allies.)

the Ki-Rin? Turn to 146
The Sabre-tonthed Tiger? Turn to 172
Eleanor the Enchantress? Turn to 162
The Golden Company? Turn to 184
the Phoenix? Turn to 1904
The Tatsu? Tum to 208
The wooden rod engraved with a

serpent ehiace Tum fo 228

=~ 5+..7 ae
Seg oe a ee < —

++ Cie

139-142

139
After some minutes of sword-flailing, the beast
pads softly away, but you daren’t sleep in case it
returns. Lose 2 STAMINA points for a sleepless
night. Turn to 152.

140
Lose 1 Honour point for this unheroic decision. You
approach the village and creep along the wall of a
house, your bow at the ready. You look inte the
village square. Villagers are fleeing everywhere;
near by, a Samurai is robbing the body of an old
man. You decide to use a willow-leaf arrow, Roll
two dicerif the result is less than yoursKILt, turn to
226; if it is equal to or greater than yoursKILL, tum

to 240-

141
You dive headlong into the river, your wakizashi
blade clamped between your teeth, but it will do
you no good here, out of your element. You are
suddenly surrounded by powerful green-skinned
men. The scaly monsters have vicious webbed
claws which rake your body and drag you down
into the murky depths. There is nothing you can do;
you have fallen into the arms of the Kappa, from
which there is no escape.

142
Your sword arcs down and shears through the
guard's shoulder, collarbone and sternum, bursting
his heart. He dies instantly in a fountain of blood,
143-145

You race on. The corridor ends in a stairwell, stairs
going down and up. Will you ascend (turn to 198) or
descend (turn to 122)?

143
The spider threshes feebly on its back in its death-
throes. Beyond, you see more giant webs and bur-
rows; to the right is a cave; behind you the water-
level still rises. Will you enter the cave (turn to 91),
or hack your way through the webs (turn to 79)?

144
The Tatsu is the one from the forest. lt recognizes
you and halts before you. If you have a jade amulet
fashioned in the shape ofa dragon, turn to 12. Ifnat,
turn to 166.

145

As you flee, the headman‘s head lifts deanly off his
shoulders and floats inta the air, followed by the
heads of everyone else in the village. They are
Rokuro-Kubi, you realize in horror, undead whose
heads detach from their bodies at night in order to
hunt. The oe fing heads dart at you, jaws snapping
yiciously. You ‘have broken through the ring of
elders, i are soon faced by the heads of several of
the villagers. You must fight them as if they were a
single many-headed monster.

ROKURO-KUBI

[f you win, turn to 85.

SKILL 11 STAMINA?

146-147

146

You order the Ki-Rin to attack. It flies into the air and
swoops down towards the toad, its hoofs Hashing
with flames. Graalsch, the toad-being, fixes its huge
eyes upon the Ki-Rin. Suddenly it opens its huge
maw, leaps into the air and bites the Ki-Rin in two
before it can escape. It bounds back to the ground
with a meaty slap, swallowing contentedly. The
Dat-Oni laughs wildly. Remove the Ki-Rin’s name
from your list of allies. You have no time for mourn-
ing: the toad-thingis advancing towards you. If you
now have no allies left, turn to 254. Otherwise,
which ally will you send against the toad (use only
those still noted on your Adventure Stvet):

The Sabre-toathed Tiger? Turn to 172
Fleanor the Enchantress? ‘Turn to 162
The Golden Company? Turn to 184
The Phoenix? Turn to 194
The Tatsu? Tum to 208
The wooden rod engraved with a

serpent shape? Turn ta 228

147

Taking one springy step as if sauntering noncha-
lantly towards the peasants, your muscles suddenly
tauten and propel 5 you forward in a leap which has
them gawping in astonishment. The bravest of
them had been reaching for staves piled near by, but
your sword-blade pierces the turf before the stack
and the charcoal-burners cower in fear. The eldest
of them, a crook-legged fellow, creaks painfully to
148-149

his arthritic knees and humbly begs your pardon
for the insulting behaviour of his son. He offers to
show you a safe village near by in which you may
pass the night. Looking up to see your ster ex-
pression he begs you to take his son as a slave that
you may teach him humility, but he beseeches you
not to kill him. Will you make them swearan oath of
allegiance before going on (turn to 163), or com-
mand the old man and his son to show you the
sanctuary of the village (turn to 179}?

145

Wearing the guard's armour, in the colours of Lord
Tsietsin, you and Moichi approach the Shikome.
They stare at you blankly as vou tell your tale. One
af them grunts and shambles away to returm with
three of his fellows. They will take you to Lord
Tsietsin, if growls. The three Shikome lead you into
the palace, through corridors and rooms. Will you
attack the guards now (turn to 256), or let them take
you to Lord Tsictsin {turn to 180)?

149
A few pmarled trees and great holes in the ground

relieve the rain-drenched land of its monotony. A
curious web stretched between two trees thirty feet
apart stops you im your tracks. Suddenly a flat
Groular slab of rock is hurled aside from the en-
trance of a huge burrow, and an enormous trap-
door spider leaps upon you. Itis taller than you and
150-151

its mandibles scissor together like great scythe
blades. You must fight for your life.
TOTATE KUMO SKILL1ia

if you win, turn to 143.

STAMINA14

150

The Dai-Oni smiles evilly, “Simply done, mortal” It
summons up the last of its magical powers and casts
a Spell of Fortune on you. Gain 2 LUCK points. “You
will need good fortune, but even that will not be
enough.” Then its body dies. you have a jade
amulet fashioned in the shape of a Tatsu, turn to
220. lf not, turn to 270.

151

You are still sawing at the trap with your sakizashi
in the morning when there is a shout behind you.
The charcoal-burners have returned. Mustering as
much authority as you can in the unfortunate cr-
cumstances, ¥ou order them to free you from the
trap. They discuss what to do with the tapped
Samurai. The most popular idea is to bury you alive
inside one of the charcoal ovens. They strip bark
from a nearby tree preparatory to binding you. Will
you tell them of the importance of your mission
(turn ta 89), or warn them they will be haunted by
spirits if they kill the Shogun’s champion (turn to
101)?

152-153

152

Without hesitating, you shout ‘Harmony’, as loud
as you can. The sound echoes like a trumpet blast
through the quiet gloom of this hall of shadows.
Tkiru recoils in horror on his throne. ‘No!’ he rasps, a
sound like chalk screeching on a blackboard,

A blaze of light erupts from the sword, dispelling
the shadows and causing Ikimi to cover his cowled
face even further. The flare dies down as quickly as
it came. Singing Death rises majestically into the air
and then hurtles towards you with fantastic speed,
straight into your outstretched hands, where it
seems to nestle as if welcoming you.

The effect is instantaneous; you are filled with
strength and well-being. Gain 2 LUCK points, 2
SKILL points and 4 STAMINA points, even if any of
these bonuses takes you beyond your Init status,
You stand fora moment unable to act, as raw vitality
courses through you. The cowled figure gestures
hurriedly and a shadow form floats up out of the pit.
It begins to take shape before you. It is vaguely
man-like, but with a horned head and massive
taloned claws. [t is a Shadow Demon, only semi-
corporeal, a creature from the nether regions. If
your Honour is 5 or more, turn to 274. If it is less
than 5, turn to 174.

153
The shards of bone that were the Rokuro-Kubi's
skull litter the ground all around you, Though the
154-156

mphtis dark you can just see well enough to head
away from the Village of the Undead. Increase your
LUCK score by 1 for surviving the village. Turn to
397-

154
The last one falls dead before you. ‘Come, let me
slay the rest of you,” you shout boldly. At the sight
of their three dead comrades and the Shogun‘s
champion standing resolute, the other Samurai turn
tail and flee. Turn to 176.

£55

As the sun finally slips below the hills and it begins
to get dark, the talk of the elders becomes slowly
more and more meaningless. A strange clacking,
somewhat like castanets, startles you and you see
that the jaws of the headmen are snapping open and
shut uncontrollably. The clacking is soon going on
all around you_ Will you flee in terror (turn to 145),
Or wait to see if the strange fit which has seized them
all passes (turn to 133)?

156_
The strange creature, its eyes glowing with baleful
orange light, swoops closer, opens its mouth and
breathes a thin stream of flame at you. You duck,
but you cannot avoid it completely without falling
off the pinnacle, and it singes you painfully, Lose 4
STAMINA points. [f you are stil alive, the Tatsu
hums for another attack, and you decide you cannot
ight it from this exposed position. You open the
157-158

door suspended behind you and return to the Hub.
Tum back to 8 and choose again, but you cannot
choose an option you have already chosen,

157

There are several lines of scrawny bulrushes leading
away from the place to which you have retraced
your steps. So far you have been able to follow them
through the muddy waters, but now you don't
know which line borders the path. You choose
wrong and step into a bottomless poal of mud- The
more you struggle the faster vou are pulled under
and the quagmire swallows you up. Ikiny’s reign
will spread to all of Hachiman.

158

You run down a long corridor and soon find your-
self lost in a maze of corridors and rooms, mostly
empty save forservants and slaves, whostare at you
inamavement. You are rounding a corner when you
ate greeted by a sight that causes you to pull up
shortin surprise. You have bumped into Lord Tsict-
sin himself, waddling down the corndor towards
you, two Samurai at either side, Lord Isietsin is a
large fat man with great blubbery jaws and a face
wreathed in fat. Two pig-like eyes fare at you in
outrage. He wears a voluminous kimona, bedecked
with an enormous robe, adomed with gold leaf.
You notice that he is openly wearing the hat which
indicates the office of Shogun.
159-160

Tsietsin gasps in fear as he recognizes you, signals
to his guards, turns around and lumbers away from
you. The Samurai draw their blades, bow and dash
to the attack. Turn to 302.

159
As soon as you increase your pace, your feet slip out
{rom under you on the treacherous green slime. Jest
your Luck, but add 1 to the die roll because you are
crossing the ford heedless of the danger. If you are
Lucky, turn to 283. If you are Unlucky, turn to 323.

160

‘But, my lord, who would believe such as I could
hold captive one as noble as yourself! Moichi @-
claims, You stare at him suspiciously for a moment
before ordering him to get on with it. You give your
weapons to Moichi. He grabs you around the neck
and frogmarches you forward. You cannot help but
feel that Maichi is enjoying this-

‘The two Shikome stare at you with dull expressions,
as Moichi tells them your story. One of the guards
grunts, and grins at you hormibly before shambling
away. He returns with three of his frends, all as

161-162

ugly and malodorous as one another. These three
lead you into the palace. One of them grunts at
Moichi, ‘More sport for the master, eh?’ and gives
you a vicious kick in the ribs. Lose 2 STAMINA
points. “Yes, he is to be horribly tortured,’ says
Moichi, leering at you. You glare back. Will you wait
until you have been taken before Tsietsin (turn to
180), or have Moichi Iet you go so that you can both
allack the Shikome guards (tum to 204)?

t61

Thirstly you bend your mouth to the retreshing
pool and drink deeply of the Waters of Knowledge.
Enlightenment floods your being. Suddenly you
know the answer to everything: itis as if you are a
god. So sublime is the experience that you cannat
contain yourself and drink lustily once more. You
are intoxicated with knowledge, the knowledge of
alchemists, the knowledge of the meadow wren,
the knowledge of the wisest scholars of the court
and much more. Your thirst for knowled¢e is un-
quenched and you drink on, but you are still un-
sated: you throw yourself inta the pool to immerse
yourself fully in knowledge and, intoxicated, you
drown.

162
You order Eleanor to fight the toad. She runs for-
ward, blue energy crackling at her fingertips, but
the Toad Demon leaps forward with incredible
speed and, before she can do anything, snaps her
up in its great maw in one great gulp, She is no
163-165

mare. You step back in horror. Remove her name
from the list of allies on your Adventure Sheet_ If you
now have no allies left, turn to 254. Othensise,
which ally will you send against the toad? Use only
those still noted on your Adventire Sheet:

The Ki-Rin? Turn to 146
The Phoenix? Turn to 194
The wooden rod engraved with a

serpent shape? Turn to 228

163

They repeat the oath of allegiance and you inform
them that it is the Shogun’s wish that demency be
shown to his subjects and that you will spare their
lives. Increase your Honour by 1. Will you com-
mand the old man to show you ty the sanctuary of
the village (turn to 179), or journey on alone (turn to
195)?

164

The arrow flies truce and thuds into the thing schest-
It staggers back, but there is no appreciable effect.
You loose another, but it goes straight through its
legs, between two bones. The other skeletons are
almost on the bridge now. You have no more hime.
Turn to 242.

165
You ask the silver Samurai’s advice as you set out on
the path to the statue of Hammurabi, but he remains
tight-lipped and silent. Once again the magican

166-167

appears out of thin air and the statue of the Lord of
the Flies flexes his forty-foot wings and turns his
giant, glinting, multi-faceted eyes upon you. There
is2 loud buzzing all around you and swarms of flies
begin to attack your eyes and skin. Hammurabi's
servants have come to protect him. The swarm is
soon inches thick all over you; you choke helplessly
and then Hammurabi strikes. It seems he has de-
cided your head will make a tasty morsel, and you
are powerless to stop him.

166

It speaks in a thunderous voice, “You thought you
had slain me, but lam far more powerful than you
could ever have imagined, mortal,’ The Tatsu, eyes
glowing with baleful orange light, swoops closer,
opens its mouth and breathes a thin stream of flame
at you. You duck, but you cannot avoid it com-
pletely without falling off the pinnacle, and it singes
you paimfully. Lose 4 s5TAMINA points. The Tatsu
tums for another attack. You decide you cannot
fight from this exposed position. You open the door
suspended behind you and return to the [Tub. Turn
back to 8 and choose again, but you cannot choose
an option you have chosen already.

167
itis the work of only two minutes to divest yourself
of the armour. Summoning all your strength, you
hurlit piece by piece over to the other bank. To your
consternation a scaly green arm reaches up out of
the water, catches the breastplate in mid-air and
168

descends gently below the surface. You have lost
your breastplate. Will you plunge inty the myer to
try to set it back (turn lo 147), or race to the pier of
rock, keeping to the side nearest the white water
(hurn to 127)?

168
You step out into bright sunshine. The courtyard is
fill of busy people — tradesmen, craftsmen, soldiers
and so on—and none of them pays any heed to you
as you saunter boldly towards the gate. You walk
through as if intent on some mission and no one
questions your actions. Marvelling at your good
fortune, you hurry on to the main road. There you
head north, towards the Forest of Shadows. Soon
you pass between two wooded hills making 2 shal-
low valley, Turn to 386.

169-171

169

There ate several limes of scrawny bulrushes leading
away from the place to which you have retraced
your steps. So far vou have been able to follow them
through the muddy waters, but now you don’t
know which line marks the edge of the path. Boldly
you set off along one of the lines and soon you are
within sight of the low hill, which is curtained by
sheets of driving rain. As the ground slopes up and
you leave the rising waters behind you notice that
all the creatures of the swamp — rats, marsh sala-
manders and even a giant dragon-newlt, which
seems too scared to think about gobbling you up —
are racing towards the same patch of high ground to
escape the flood. Turn to 149.

170
You decide to use bowel-raker arrows as they are
the most deadly. You draw and aim your bow at the
nearest Shikome- Roll two dice, If vou throw less
than your SKILL, turn to 232. If you throw equal to
or more than your $kiL1, turn to 244.

wot hes
At the last moment you bring the sward-blade
down towards the green water in a slashing motion
which slices through the net. Then you lunge ayain
with scarcely believable speed. Your sword-point
buries itself in the face of the scaly preen monster,
which turns purple and sinks below the surface,
bubbling purplish blood. The second is stil] surging
1972~-173

towards the ford and you just have time to reach the
other bank, teetering dangerously every step of the
way. l'un fo 395-

172

The tiger races forward and rears menacingly; the
toad-thing hops back uncertainly. Graalsch, the
Toad Demon, snaps its head forward to strike, its
great maw snapping, but the huge tiger dodges
aside, moving with incredible swiftness and lays
open the toad’s side with a sweep of one of its great
taloned claws. Then it proceeds to rip and tear the
wailing Graalsch into shreds. After its task is com-
pleted, the tiger leaps into the air and then fades out
of existence as if it had jumped to another plane.
Remove it from the list of allies on your Advenhar
Skeet. The Dai-Oni bellows in rage and shouts,
‘K’rilk, slay the man-thing! and the Mantis Demon
scultles fornvard. If you are alone now, turn to 266,
Otherwise, which ally will you send against it (use
only those still noted on your Adventure Skeet):

The Ki-Rin? Tum to 278
The Galden Company? Turn to 304
The Tatsu? Turn to 294

173
One of the scaly green monsters throw's a trident as
you turn to flee, Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 225- If you are Unlucky, turn to 257.

174-176

174
You must fight the Shadow Demon. Singing Death

does not seem affected by its insubstantiality—it will
cut shadows as well as flesh.

SHADOW DEMON

IF you win, tum to 212.

SKILLQ STAMINA 10

175

She does not answer. You turn round to look at her,
and she stares at you with a strange intensity. Her
teeth start to chatter in a most unnerving way, as if
she were trying to speak, but could not. At Jast she
forces out the words, ‘Go . . . Leave the village.’ If
you think this is scant thanks for your help and stay
to eat the gruel and sleep, turn to 203. If instead you
quit the village, tar to 15-

176
The villagers run out of their houses and their
hiding-places, some shouting joyfully, others weep-
mg over lost fiends and relatives. As many vil-
lagers see to dousing the fires, a number of elders
approach you. Bowing low, one of them says, ‘Tam
Ningi, the headman. We cannot thank you enough
for your noble act. Hachiman has fallen on bad
times, but at least someone still follows the old
ways. Here, my lord, please accept this gift.’ And he
hands you a silken red headband patterned with a
black three-spoked wheel. ‘This is the headband of
177-178

Shinmen, the legendary hero of Hachiman, who
came from this village. This headband has been
with us for centuries.’ You feel honoured -Shinmen
was a wreat hero. Gain 1 Honour and 4 LUCK point.

Just then a commotion starts near by: there are cries
ofangerand hate. A group of villagers have found a
wounded Samurai taider and are dragging him
towards you. They are chanting, “Kill, kill, kill, kill”
The headman bow’ to you and says, ‘Please rid us of
this vile murderer, lord.’ The Samurai lies before
you, defenceless, a slim young man with a blood-
stained head bandage. He looks at you defiantly,
resalved not ta show fear. Will you kill the Samurai
as the villagers wish (turn to 238), or spare his life
(turn to 250)?

177
Instead of bedding down for the night, you walk out
of the house and into the village. The meeting of the
elders is about to begin outside the headman’s
house. Jt is getting dark. Will you quit the village
(turn to 15), or join the elders (harn to 319)?

178
‘Spare me, ereat warrior, please spare me,’ gabbles
Tsietsin. ‘It was [kiru; he forced me to turn agaist
the rightful Shogun, forgive me, 1 shall be his loyal
yassal from now on.’ This is all a tissue of trans-
parent lies. As you look down, feeling only con-
tempt and loathing, Tsietsin’s eyes narraw in am-
ning malice. His right hand flicks through the air. A

17g-180

needle-like dagger flies from his hand and into your
thigh. Lose 3 STAMINA points. If you live, you
stagger back in surprise, while he lurches tu his feet,
drawin g his sword. ‘Curse you, You swine,’ he crivs
and slashes at you. You must fight Lord Tsietsin,

LORD TSIETSIN

If you win, turn to 322.

SKIL1.7 STAMINA 11

179

Ordering the old man to show you the wa y alone,
you leave the charcoal-bumers’ woads. He bids
farewell to his son, then fawningly ushers you on.
He takes you along a winding track that leads to the
dales of Kanshuro, a land where wooded plateaux
are riven by beautiful and peaceful dales, which
nestle unseen between cliffs cut into the limestone
by the rivers which formed them, Atdusk you take a
path down into the Vale of Tinshu to a small and
picturesque village, You tum to the old man to ask
its name, but he has fallen to the sTouncl. You try to
rouse him but his heart has stopped. He is dead.
Turn to 5.

180
You are taken into the audience-room of the palace,
where you soon realize you have made a mistake,
Lord Tsietsin, a fat, pig-like man, sits before you,
but the walls are lined with Samurai warriors, over
sixty of them inchiding many Shikome. One of the
guards recognizes you from the village, and within
181-182

moments you and Moichi have been sliced into bits
by their swords.

181

The water-level rises faster and faster and it be-
comes harder and harder to retrace your steps on
the safe path across the featureless fens. At any
moment you could step off the path and be swal-
lowed up by the stinking quagmires. Test your Tauck
Tf vou are Lucky, turn to 169. If you are Unlucky,
turn to 157.

182

You open the iron war-fan. lt reveals a beautiful
image painted on its spread blades, an insignia you
donot recognize, something very ancient: nine gold
arrow fletches pointing inward to a blue circle, the
whole set on a plain white background. Puzzled,
you fold it up and place itin your backpack. Will you
put on the helmet, if you have not already done so
(tun lo 210), drink from the bottle, if you have nat
already done so {turn to 196), or leave the cavern
(turn to 222}? hy

183-184

183
With your back to the tree, you direct a fresh
onslaught. Desperate measures are called for if you
are to avoid death at the hands of the scaly green
monsters, ‘Vill you try a trick suggested by the
element brimstone (furn t 231), has the thought of
their strange flat-topped heads entered your mind
(turn to 255), or svill you pretend to be about tocasta
spell on them (turn to 277}?

184

The Knights of the Golden Company uttera battle
cry and charge forward with military precision.
However, their weapons, straight swords and
maces, make little impression on the leathery skin of
the load Demon. Graalsch lays about itself with
ferocious accuracy; each super-fast dart of its head
bites a knight in two. Within moments they are all
dead. You stand aghast at its horrible power. Re-
more the Knights from the list of allies on your
Adventure Sheet. Graalsch turns upon you and hops
forward. If vou are now without allies, turn to 254.
Otherwise which ally will you commit now (use
only those listed on your Adventure Sheef):

the Tatsu? Turn to 208
The Sabre-toothed Tiger? Turn tu 172
Ihe Ki-Rin? Turn to 146
185-186

185

The silver Samurai strides purposefully at your side
towards the twin statues of the demon and captive
priestess. The magician appears again out of thin air
and the two statues — the black-skinned, red-tusked
demon and the pale skinned priestess—come to life.
She kneels at your fect imploring you to save her
from the Pit of Demons, but her captor yanks the
chain cruelly and she is pulled to the floor, ‘he
silver Samurai gives the Battle-cry of Ages and the
demon is stricken with terror. They battle mightily
but even the eldritch powers of the demon are as
naught against the Hashing Samurai. The demon is
slain. The chain disappears and the silver Samurai
melts into a little silver puddle. The priestess puts
her hand in yours. ‘Whither now, gallant saviour?’
Will you take the path to the statue of the Sea
Dragon (turn to 55) or to the statue of Hammurabi,
Lord of the Flies (turn to 75)?

186
You take out the war-fan. The knight gasps in
Surprise. “You have it’ he exclaims. You hand it to
him and then he kneels before you, the other
knights following suit.

‘When you travel to the Place of Battle, we shall be
there to light at your side. Long have we sought this
artefact

Suddenly you find yourself back at the Hub sur-
rounded by stars and the eight doors. Note that the
187

Gulden Company are your allies. Return to 8 and
choose again, but you cannot choose an option you
have tried already,

187

You head hastily in the opposite direction to that by
which you entered the village. Nobody appears to
notice you leave and you begin to breathe easier.
Suddenly you catch sight of the old charcoa-burner
who brought you to the village. You thought him
quite dead, having left his unbreathing corpse at the
other edge of the village, yet here he is grinning at
you from behind a wall. You step forward, but stop
as his head sails up into the night air: another
Rokuro-Kubi! It spits black gobbets of poison which
hiss and smoke as they spatter against your face.
You are in agony. Lose 2 STAMINA points. You
must fight the Rokuro-Kubi asit flies through the air
snapping viciously,

ROKURO-KUBI SKILL

If you win, turn to 153.

STAMINAS

188—190

188
The Dai-Oni smiles evilly. ‘Simply defeat him in
battle, mortal.” He laughs wildly, before his body
dies. If you have a jade amulet fashioned in the
shape of a Tatsu, turn to 220, If not, turn to 270.

189
Suddenly, Singing Death flares brightly once more
and the bolts of dark energy simply cease to be,
extinguished in its bright light. Ikina staggers back,
but the light fades as quickly as itsprang up. Turn to

199.

190

The last one falls dead at your feet. You expect
another to step forward and take his place, hutnone
of the other Samurai makes a move, ‘he villagers
cower in their homes, watching the proceedings
with fear and hope in their eyes. One or tivo of the
Samurai shuffle back uncomfortably. They have
been awed by your swordsmanship,

One of them says, “You are a master of the sword
and you have won great honour here, As you have
fought so well, we will leave now and spare your
hfe.” His words sound courteous, but you sense it is
fear of facing you rather than the desire to honour
you that is making them leave. They leave the
village as fast as they can; you feel too tired to
pursue them. Gain 1 Honour point for your chal-
lenge and your defence of the village. Turn to 176.
191-193

192
She places her hand on your shoulder, points to the
gruel and the mattress, then hurmes away into her
own litte bedroom while the sun turns the sky red
as if sets. If you wish to leave the house after
finishing the repair, turn to 277. If vou eal and sleep,
furn tk) 203.

292

The arrow flies rue and thuds into its chest. The
undead Samurai shrieks hornbly and falls to the
ground. There it begins to dissolve, as does the
armow, until there is nothing left but ash. As it does
so, the skeletons fall back into the river and sink
from sight. The redness fades from the river and the
sky lightens.

You walk across the bridge, and inspect the heap of
ash, Among the ashes you notice an ivory hom of
fine workmanship inlaid with silver tracery depict-
ing a sabre-toothed tiger. You pick it up and walk
on. Turn to 211.

193
On close inspection the river looks quite deep and

you will not be able to cross wearing your heavy
armour, If you wish to hurl the armour to the other
side before plunging in, turn to 167. Li vou prefer to
tisk the ford, will you crass near the frothing white
water (turn to 213) or near the green depths on the
upstream side where you are now (furn to 202)?

194

194

You order the Phoenix to attack Graalsch the Toad
Demon. The Phoenix flies straight at the taad-thing-
Oddly, Graalsch does not move, even when the
Phoenix tums into a fireball almost on top of it.
When the flames die, Graalsch is completely un-
hurt, as if it were immune to flames of any sort, The
toad-thing’s head darts forward and its huge maw
closes around the magical bird, swallowing it up in
one gulp. The Phoenix is no more. Remoyc its name
from the list of allies on your Adventure Sheet. If you
now have no allies left, turn to 254. Otherwise,
which ally will you send against the toad (use only
those still noted on your Adventure Sheet):

The Ki-Rin? Turn bo 146
Eleanor the Enchantress? Turn to 162
The wooden rod engraved witha

serpent shape? t Turn to 228

195-196

195
The road forks behind the charcoal-burners’ wood
and you decide to take the left fork, which drops out
of sight into a small wooded dale. As you descend,
dusk draws in and the sight of a fire outside a
goatherd’s rough hut is welcoming. You march
closer to see if it offers shelter for the night, when a
figure dressed in the lacquered armour of a Samurai
stoops beneath the low doorway and walks to the
fire. The Hames illuminate his golden armour and
the proud face is unmistakable. It is Yoro Ginset,
erstwhile captain of the executed Lord Toda’s
guard. Toda plotted against the Shogun. His dis-
graced Samurai committed seppuku, killing them-
selves rather than suffering dishonour, but Ginset
decided to live on as a ronin, a Samurai without a
lord. His hatred of Samurai is well known. Turn to

20g.

196

You raise the bottle to your lips and a vile stench fills
your nosimils, You sip it—the taste makes you heave
and reich, but the liquid burns down your throat. It
is invigorating and health-giving; the liquid is heal-
ing some of your wounds. Regain up to 3 points of
lost stamina. There is enough liquid left for one
good drink — you may drink it at any time to restore
up to 5 points of STAMINA. Will you open the
war-fan, if you have not already done so (tum to
182), put on the helmet, if you have not already
done so (turn to 219}, or leave the cavern (turn to
222)?
197-198

197
With a single almighty bound you have leapt out of
the clutches of the Groundhog on to the rock-shell
beyond. Will you run into the cave (turn to 265), or
climb to the crest and escape (turn to 259)?

198

The knights run forward with military precision.
Twin bolts of mby fire leap from the eves of Gargan-
tus and strike one of the knights, whois hurled forty
feet through the airand killed. The other knights are
not using their swords and maces; instead they are
wielding lengths of rope. They run around Gargan-
tus’s legs, dodging and weaving and casting their
lassoed tropes at Gargantus. Soon they have his
arms enmeshed, and one of his legs; but two men lie
dead. Then the remaining knights all pull on the
ropes and Gargantus slowly begins to topple. He
gives a great cry of despair, like the roar of a huge
waterfall, before crashing to the ground. As soon as
he touches the earth, the light fades from his eyes
and he lies inert, nothing but a massive bronze
statue. The leader of the Golden Company says to
vou, ‘Our duty has been discharged, bearer of the
war-fan. Farewell.’ Then they literally step away
into nothingness.

-_—

199-200

The Dai-One speaks, ‘You have done well, mortal,
but now I shall kill you.’ It advances, wielding a
massive spiked iron club, a Tetsubo, IFyau still have
the Ki-Rin as an ally, you may send it against the
Dai-Oni (turn to 394). Otherwise, you will have to
fight the Dai-Oni alone (turn to 292).

=f

A sword of black steel, etched with glowing red
runes, appears in Ikiru’s shadowy grasp and vou
both fall to combat, dark against light. Each ime
you hit him, deduct STAMINA as usual, butalso Tesf
vour Luck. Lf you are Lucky, turn to 235. If you are
Unlucky, just fight on. Each time [kiru hits you, not
only do you lose the normal sTaMINa, but a power-
ful surge of force erupts from his black runesword
and threatens to overcome you. Roll two clice: if the
result is more than your STAMINA, turn to 47; ifitis
not, fight on.

IKIRU SKILL 12

If you win, turn to 400.

STAMINA 12

200

The knight's face falls when he sees you have no
idea what he is referring to. “Another wanderer that
does not bring us what we seek,’ he mutters. Be-
gone! We will not aid you. May the Demon Lord
devour you! With that you find yourself back at the
Hub, surrounded by stars and the cight doors.
Returm to 8 and choose again, but you cannot
choose an option you have already tried.
201-202

201

Choosing the side of the ford nearest the green
depths, you cautiously feel your way towards the
far bank across the pier of rock, which is only inches
below the surface of the river. The green slime
which covers the rock is treacherous underfoot.
suddenly two figures rise majestically out of the
depths. They have scaly green skins and curious
flat-topped heads. They move as if balancing some-
thing invisible on top of their heads, but they also
have dangerous-looking webbed claws, and they
are surging towards the ford. Will you lunge vour
sword at the nearest (firm to 233), or try to make a
dash for the far bank (turn to 159)?

202

One of the Samurai sees his comrade’s dead bady
and shouts a warning. You dart into cover, but are
spotted, and three Samurai rush forward. One of
them recognizes you and says, “The Shogun’s —
sorry, the ex-Shogun’s champion. Kill the mangy,
flea-ridden goat!” They come al youinarush, wildly

203

brandishing their swords. You must fight them allat
once, If you have the skill of Karumijutsu, you may
subtract 1 from all their Attack Rolls for this combat
only, as you jump and leap over them, trying to
dodge their blows.

SKILL STAMINA

First SAMURAT 6 73
Seoond SAMURAI & 8
Third SAMURAT ¥ 6

if you kill all three of them, turn te 154.

203

Tt is peaceful and calm in the village as you take off
your armour, bed down and drift off to sleep - .
There is a sudden sharp pain in your leg. You sit
bolt upright to see by the light of the moon a disem-
bodied head feeding off your leg. Itis the head of the
peasant woman. There is no blood at the severed
neck, and with a thrill of horror you realize she is a
Rokuro-Kubi, an undead being whose head de-
taches itself from its body at night in order to hunt.
You have already lost 3 STAMINA points. Seizing
your katana, you give battle to the floating head,
which snaps at you viciously.

ROKURO-KLBI

If you win, turn to 187.

SKILLS STAMINAS

cet eee Reese EH Sa

204-206

204
You grab your swords from Moichi and leap to the
attack, as does your retainer. The Shikome are
completely surprised. They may not fight back for
two rounds of combat. Moichi is fighting one, but

you must fight the other two-

SKILL STAMINA
lirst SHIKOME & 6
Second SHIKOME 7 5

lf they are still alive after six rounds of combat, turn
to 218. If you have slain them before then, turn to

336-

205

All goes still fora moment as you wedge yourself in
the cave mouth, then there is a dull rumbling from
the earth and the ground starts to shake once more.
The tremor is a strong one and there is a greal
cracking noise above you. You look up in time to see
2 hundred toms of slate dropping from the cave roof.
There is no escape: you are squashed fiat.

206

The Dai-Oni screws up its face in pain and rage.
‘Curse you, mortal. The secretis “Tlarmony. Litter
that word and Singing Death will come to life and fly
into your hands, but only for those of noble heart —
which is why Ikiru has been unable to use it yet,’ he
adds with a laugh of malicious glee. Then his body
dies. If you have a jade amulet fashioned in the
shape of a Tatsu, turn to 220. If not, turn to 270.
207-208

207
Which type of arrow did you select to fire at the
youth? Was it a willow-leaf arrow (turn to 223) ora
bowel-raker (turn to 239)?

208

You order the Tatsu to the attack. It gallops into the
air. Graalsch shifts its bulk to face the Tatsu, just as
the dragon breathes a stream of flame that engulfs
the Toad Demon, But incredibly, as the flames
subside, it becomes apparent that Graalsch is com-
pletely unhurt, As the Tatsu pauses momentarily in
surprise, the Toad Demon executes a great bound
into the air and bites the Tatsu’s head clean off its
shoulders. The Tatsu’s body simply fades out of
existence, Remove its name from your list of allies.
The Dai-Oni mocks you at this point and orders
Graalsch on, If you are without allies now, farn to
254. Otherwise, which ally will you send against the
toad (use only those still noted on your Adventure
Sheet):

The Ki-Rin? Turn to 146
The Golden Company? Turn to 183
The Sabre-toothed Tiger? Turn to 172

209-211

209
The ronin catches sight of you against the skyline
and. hand on the hilt of his katana, he swaggers
towards you. He is a traitor and an enemy of your
lord, but a peerless swordsman, Will you hide
among the trees (turn to 224), or wait to see what
Ginsei will do (turn to 241)?

210
Gingerly you place the silvered helmet on your
head. Foramoment nothing happens, but then lanc-
ing bolts of pain lacerate your brain. You scream in
agony and rip the helmet off your head. Tlowever,
your brain feels slightly numb, as if you weren't
guite yourself, It is a Helmet of Befuddlement
(lose 1 SKILL point). You may take the helmet with
you in any case, if you so wish. Will you drink from
the bottle, if you have not already done so (turn to
196), open the war-fan. ifyou have notalready done
so {turn to 182), or leave the cavern (turn to 222)?

241
You follow the road to the mountains and the lair of
ikiru. The day passes uneventfully and you spend
the night under the stars. You rise the next day,
refreshed. You may restore up to 2 STAMINA
points. You press on, leaving the road, until you
come to the Shios'ii Mountains, A goat-track climbs
up one of the largest mountains and you decide to
follow it. Turn to 8.
212-213

212

The Shadow Demon is dead and Ikiru hisses in rage
and fear, Murriedly he raises his hands high and
litlers a strange cry. Shapes begin to rise up out of
the pit and form around him, a phalanx of guardian
shadow's. A score surround him in moments.

Will you step forward and throw Singing Death into
the pit (turn to 312)? Will you wait to see what
happens (turn to 51)? Will you walk around the pit
and try to stride boldly through the shadowy forms
(turn to 298)? Or will you throw Singing Death like a
spear at Ikiru (turn to 63}?

213

Choosing the side of the ford nearest the frothing
white waters, you cautiously feel your way towards
the far bank across the pier of rock, which is only
inches below the surface of the river. The green
slime is treacherous underfoot and it is all you can
do to keep your balance. Suddenly two scaly green
figures rise up out of the green depths upstreamand
begin to wade towards the ford. They have webbed
claws and curiously shaped flat-topped heads. Will
you make a dash for the far bank (turn to 159), draw

back from the ford and try to find a safer place to
crass (tum to 245), or give battle on the ford itself
(turn 10 315)?

a —- . ; .*
ee, = Na ve
- 23 = =. = fs
‘ ; ~S . =° -
ea | ~

214-216

245
You hold up the ruby and it flashes in the sunlight,
but the sabre-toothed tiger continues to hurtle to-
wards you. Then itleaps. You must fight the tiger.

SABRE-TOOTHED

TIGER SKILL 10 STAMINA I2

if you win, there is nothing more here, so you step
back through the door to the Hub. Retum to 8 and

choose again, but not an option you have already
tried.

215

It does not take you long to finda suitable plank and
nail it fo the screen. At [east the little house will be
warmer to live in now. To your consternation, the
melancholic old woman becomes agitated while you
work, and her teeth begin to chatter like castancts.
Will you ignore her and finish work (turn to 197), or
ask her what is wrong (turn to 175)?

216

You dart from house to house, completely unseen,
You manage to kill another Samurai with an arrow
in the chest. The others turn round in astonishment,
but are unable to see their assailant. You continue
your accurate archery — soon you have killed four of
them and they still have not found you. This is too
much for them and the remaining Samurai turn to
flee. (You may recover most of the arrows, but some
are broken: you will lose 1 willow-leaf, 1 armaur-
piercer and 1 bowel-raker.) Turn to 176.
217-218

217
The path winds through the mist for several miles
further than the map led you to expect, and you still
have nat caught sight of the scarlet pagoda. If you
wish to turn back to the giant's causeway, turn to
113. If not, turn to 369-

218

The sounds of battle have alerted the others. A
troop of Shikome and Samurai appear on the scene
and itis not long before you and Moichi have been
overpowered. Moichi is slain out of hand, but they
take you prisoner, making gibes about the Shogun
and his champion as they do so — they plainly know
who you are. You are filled with sorrow ai the loss of
your loyal retainer.

You are unceremoniously thrown into a small cellin
the palace dungeon. The gaoler, a large beefy man
in a stained leather jerkin, says jeeringly, “You will
be taken before the Shogun Tsietsin on the mor
row.’ He then slams the massive, iron-studded,
oaken door of the cell in your face.

You are alone. They have taken your swords, and it
is this rather than the cruel gibes and the indignity
of capture that fills you with shame. Lose 1 Honour
point for their loss, There ts nothing you can do but
wait for the morning, so you lie dawn on the
wooden pallet in the comerand go to sleep. Turn to
316.

219

219

The oldest of the charcoal-burners catches up with
you after a time and fawningly begs that he may
show you to a place of safety so that it may not be
said thal his family dishonoured a Samurai. Te
takes you along a winding track that leads to the
vales of Kanshuro where wooded plateaux are riven
by beautiful and peaceful dales, which nestle un-
seen between cliffs cut into the limestone by the
myers which formed them. At dusk you take a path
down into the Vale of Tinshu to a small and pic-
furesque village. You turn to the old man to ask its
name, but he has fallen to the ground. You tr to

rouse him but his heart has stopped. He is dead.
Turn to 5.

220-221

220
A terrible thing happens. Out of the body of the
Dai-Onia spectral shape coalesces, a ghostly form of
the demon, with insubstantial taloned hands. Itisa
Shura, or warrior ghost, the spirit of the Dai-Oni
come to avenge its death.

But you remember the words of the Tatsu and
myoke the Jizo of Demons, saying, ‘A Shura is here,
O Jizo. Come and execute your purpose,’

As you finish the word ‘purpose’, a being appears
before you. He is dressed as a warrior monk and
bears a staff inscribed with glowing runes. You are
filled with awe at the sight of it. The Jiza of Demons
ignores you and merely strikes the ghostly spectre.
The apparition promptly disappears with an
echoing wail of dread. The Jizo, without even
acknowledging your presence, also departs. Turn
to 76-

221

Ginsei calls challenges to you, but he cannot track
you down. Slipping away, you reflect that it would
have been a close battle. Fear wakens in your breast;
you did not dare to challenge the enemy of your
lord. Your honour is besmirched; you feel unworthy
to be the Shogun's champion. Subtract 2 from your
Honour. Night is falling and you try to find a dry
spotin the woods to sleep. Turn lo 371.

—.._—.

ESE Prom
222-224

222
The exit tunnel curls upward until you can see a
small circle of light ahead from a cave entrance
under a rocky overhang ona hillside. The hill slopes
down into a shallow valley with a road running its
length. It is the main road. You must follow it north
to reach Onikaru and ikiru. Turn to 386.

223

The willow-leaf arrow whistles through the air and
buries itself in the -youth’s side: he screams and
doubles up in agony. One of the charcoal-bumers
tries to grab a stave, but two others restrain him and
the eldest of them throws himself at your feet,
imploring you not to kill his son. Looking up and
seeing your stern countenance, he offers to take you
to a village where you may pass the night safely.
Will you command him to take you to the village
{turn ta 253), or walk on alone (turn to 195)?

224
You aim and fire. If you are Successful, you may

deduct the total damage-value of your arrow from
the tiger's STAMINA Of 12. You have the chance to
fire three arrows before itis upon you. You must
fight it now.

SABRE-TOOTHED
TIGER SKILL 10

If you win, there is nothing more here, so you step
back through the door to the Hub. Refurn to 8 and

STAMINA i2

225-227

choose again, but not an option you have already
tried_

225
The trident catches in a low branch and you are able
to make good your escape. Turn to 245.

226
You draw and fire: the arrow skewers his neck. He
throws up his arms and falls dead. (You will not be
able to retrieve this arrow, so cross off a willow-leaft
arrow from your Adventure Sheet.) Now Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, tum to 216. If you are
Unlucky, tum to 202.

227

The road mms down to the river's edge at a ford.
You can see, running to the other bank just below
the surface, a pier of rock, over which the river
pours like a weir. Below the weir the water is white
and frothy; above it is still, deep and green, The pier
is ten feet wide and covered in green slime. Will you
cross near the frothing white water (turn to 213) or
near the green depths upstream ([lurn to 201)?
Otherwise you may plunge in above the weir and
Swim (furn to 193).
228-230

228

You throw the carved rod in the path of the toad-
thing. Suddenly a great Serpent rears in its place
and Graalsch, the load Demon, hesitates in fear for
amoment, The serpent’s great coils wnthe forward
and envelop the toad in a grip of steel, ever tighten-
ing, its fanged head continually diving at Graalsch’s
trapped body and biting into it. The Toad Demon
wails horribly as the life is crushed and tarn out of it.
When its work is done, the serpent fades into
nothingness, as if it had slithered away te another
plane. Remove its name from your list of allies on
your Adrenture Sheet.

‘The Dai-Oni bellows in rage, ‘K’rilk, slay the man-
thing!’ And the Mantis Demon scutties forward. If
vou are now without allies, turn to 266. Otherwise,
which ally will you send against it (use only those
still noted on your Adzen!ure Sheet):

‘The Ki-Rin? Tum to 278
The Phoenix? Turn to 320
Eleanor the Enchantress? Tum to 330

229
The water rises faster and faster and still the bul-
rushes march on across the featureless expanse oi
fen. You are forced to swim, but after swimming
many miles you are utterly exhausted and sink
quietly bencath the surface to drown.

230
You run into the palace and down a jong corridor

231

and svon find yourself lost in a maze of corridors
and rooms, mostly empty except for servants and
slaves, who stare at you in amazement, On round-
ing a corner you are greeted by a sight that causes
you to stop dead in your tracks. You have almost
bumped into Lord Tsietsin himself, waddling down
the corridor, a Samurai at either side. Lord I'sietsin
isa large fatman with great blubbery jaws and a face
wreathed in fat. Two pig-like eyes flare in outrage.
Fe wears a voluminous kimono, bedecked with an
enormous robe, adorned with gold leaf. He is quite
openly wearing the hat indicating the title of Sho-
gun.

Tsietsin gasps in fear as he recognizes you, signals
to his guards and lumbers away. The Samurai draw
their blades, bow and then rush to the attack.

Moichi darts fonward and engages one. You must
fight the other.

TSTETSIN’S
BODYGUARD SKILLQ

Lf you win, turn to 354.

STAMINAS

231
Unfortunately you have no brimstone with which
you can attack or scare the monsters. They are
forcing; you back to the river-bank. Your sword
flashes through the air, creating the illusion of a
magical barrier of blades, but at last one of the
creatures gets through your guard. You are knocked
to the ground and dragged into the river. You have
232-234

fallen into the clutches of the Kappa, from which
there is no escape-

232
With tivo swift and accurate shats you have killed
both Shikome, who slump silently before the palace
gales. Maichi’s jaw drops in amazcment, Such
skill, you are truly a master of the Way of the Bow
and the Sword, my lord!’ ‘This time you can detect
no sarcasm in his voice. Quickly you race into the
palace as quietly as possible, into a maze of empty
corriclors and rooms. lurn te 230.

233

The scaly green monster's yellow eyes glint with
evil intelligence as you unsheathe your sword and
lake a pace back from the green depths. If you have
the skill of Iaijutsu, turn to 357. Otherwise if pro-
duces a strong net from below the surface with
which it tries ta trap your sword just as you lunge-
Roll two dice and add 2 to the score because you
may lose your footing on the treacherous slime. If
you score less than your 5xi11, turn to 171. If you
score equal to or higher than your SKILL, turn to
117-

234
You put the ancient horn to your lips and blow an
ear-shattering blast that echoes across the plain. The
tiver stops abruptly. Then it pads slowly towards
you, in an attitude of curiosity rather than hunger.

235-237

itis as tall as you are, but all it does is lick your face
affectionately. You get the impression it thinks you
are somebody else, presumably the original owner
of the horn. But all that is lost in legend. For now
you know it will be waiting to aid you at the Place of
Battle. Note this on your Adventure Sheet. The tiger
looks at you with unnaturally intelligent eyes as you
step back through the door to the Hub, Return to 8
and choose again, but not an option vou have
already tried.

235
Singing Death cuts into Tkint’s side and he hisses
with pain. A jagged bolt of lightning leaps from the
sword blade and inty Ikimi's cowled face. There is an
almighty thunderclap, the black ninesword dis-
appears and lkiru is destroyed utterly. No vestige of
his being remains in the chamber. Turn to goo.

236
The bow-shots are accurate and deadly. In the space
of a few seconds you have slain the two Shikome,
without a sound. You sprint forward and into the
palace — there is no time to recover your arrows.
lum to 158,

237
The journey through the Longhills is easy and with-
in fwo days you reach the valley of one of the
tributaries of the great Hiang-Kiang river. The air is
ahve with the twittering of song-thrushes as you
walk down a rolling green hillside towards the river.
238-239

‘There is a road with white-topped milestones at
intervals that runs straight towards the river and
you decide to follow it. Turn to 227-

238
You step forward, draw your sword and hack off the
villainous Samurai’s head in one fluid motion. ‘It is
all he deserved for betraying the Shogun and turn-
ing to a life of burning and killing,” the headman
says. The other villagers thank you for meting out
their idea of justice and they give you another gift -—
six Gold Pieces. After a small celebration you take
your leave and head back to the main road. Tum

to 24.

239

The bowel-raker whistles through the air and buries
itself in the youth's side. He screams and doubles
up in agony then coughs and twitches spasmodicel-
ly. The wickedly barbed arrow has wounded him
badly and he scrabbles at the shaft in an effort to
drag the cruel head from his flesh. One of his friends
bends to help and the poor youth screams hombly
again as the head is jerked free. A torrent of blood
flows from the gaping wound. The harbs are de-
signed to prevent easy extraction of the arrow and
they have severed vital arteries. The young lad dies
in a pool of blood and there are cries of rage from the
other charcoal-burners, One drags the moistened
turf off one of the mounds, letting out billowing
smoke and flames, others seize staves, meaning to
do battle. Will you flee (turn to 269) or fight (turn to
281)?

240-241

240

The arrow whistles pasta Samurai’s neck. He jumps
up in surprise. You try to duck out of sight, but he
spots you and cries a warning. Several of the traitor-
ous Samurai turn at his shout and three of them
spring towards you. One recognizes you and says,
‘The Shogun‘s — sorry, the ex-Shagun’s champion.
Kall the mangy, flea-ridden goat!’ They come at you
m a rush, wildly brandishing their swords. You
must fight them all at once, If you have the skill of
Karumijutsu, you may subtract 1 from all their
Attack Rolls for this combat only, as you jump and
leap over them, trying to dodge their blows.

SKIL. STAMINA
First SAMURAI 6 7
Second SAMURAI 8 8
Third SAMURAI 7 6

If you kill all three of them, turn to 154.

241
Ginsei grins murderously as his katana hisses from
its sheath. ‘The Shogun’s champion. Strange that
one so young can be the Shogun’‘s finest sword. It
must be that only cowards and babes in arms are so
foolish as to pander to that broken reed Hasvkawa. I
challenge you to single combat, tu the death.’ “te
Knows that you cannot let such insults par
must kill him. He is armed only with his”
you have the skill of laijutsu and wish ’-
to 275. If you have the skill of Kyui-
use it, turn to 289. Otherwise tr —
238-239

There is a road with white-topped milestones at
intervals that mins straight towards the river and
you decide to follow it. Turn to 227.

238
You step forward, draw your sword and hack off the
villainous Samurai’s head in one fluid motion. ‘It is
all he deserved for betraving the Shogun and turn-
ing to a life of buming and killing,” the headman
says. The other villagers thank you for meting out
their idea of justice and they give you another gift —
six Gold Pieces. After a small celebration you take
your leaye and head back to the main road. Tum

tu 24.

239

The bowel-raker whistles through the air and buries
itself in the youth’s side. He screams and doubles
up in agony then coughs and twitches spasmodical-
ly. The wickedly barbed arrow has wounded him
badly and he scrabbles at the shaft in an effort to
drag the cruel head from his flesh. One of his fiends
bends to help and the poor youth screams horribly
again as the head is jerked free. A torrent of blood
flows from the gaping wound. The barbs are de-
signed to prevent easy extraction of the arrow and
they have severed vital arteries. The young lad dies
in a pool of blond and there are cries of rage from the
other charcoal-burners. One drags the moistened
turf off one of the mounds, letting out billowing
smoke and flames, others seize staves, meaning to
do battle. Will you flee (turn to 269) or fight (turn to
281)?

240-241

240

The arrow whistles pasta Samurai’s neck, He jumps
up in surprise. You try to duck out of sight, but he
spots you and cries a warning. Several of the traitor-
ous Samurai turn at his shout and three of them
spring towards you- One recognizes you and says,
‘The Shogun’s — sorry, the ex-Shogun's champion.
Kill the mangy, flea-ridden goat!’ They come at you
in 2 rush, wildly brandishing their swords. You
must fight them all at once. If you have the skill of
Kerumijutsu, you may subtract 1 from all their
Attack Rolls for this combat only, as you jump and
leap over them, trying to dodge their blows.

SKILL STAMINA
First SAMURAIT 6 7
Second SAMURAI ) §
Third SAMURAT 7 6

If you kill all three of them, turn lo 154.

241

Ginsei grins murderously as his katana hisses from
its sheath. “The Shogun’s champion. Strange that
one so young can be the Shogun’s finest sward. It
must be that only cowards and babes in arms are so
foolish as to pander to that broken reed Hasekawa. I
thallenge vou to single combat, to the death.” He
Know’s that you cannot let such insults pass, You
must kill him. He is armed only with his katana. lf
you have the skill of Iaijutsu and wish to use it, turn
to 275- If you have the skill of Kyujutsu and wish to
use it, turn to 28g. Otherwise tur to 301.
242-244

The animated skeletons are heaving themselves on
to the bridge. H you have the skill of Karumijutsu
and svish to sprint forward and attempt to leap over
the undead Samurai to the other side of the river,
turn to 262. If not, ar you da not wish to try it. the
skeletons charge at you. Turn to 358.

243
You dip the silver ewer into the pool untilit is full to

the brim and then close the lid. Note it on your
Adventure Sheet. Taking the chalice, vou pour a drop
from the ewer and sip it carefully. Knowledge
floods your being; fora moment it is as if you were a
god, for you have partaken of the Waters of Know-
ledge. Add 3 to your LUCK for the knowledge of the
sods. The Enchanted Garden begins to ripple all
around you like a mirage and then it fades away-
You find yourself standing on a goat-track at the
foot of a mountain, unmistakably one of the Shios‘i
range, Ikiru‘s stronghold lies above, so you begin to
ascend. Turn tu &.

244
One of the arrows buries itself in one of the Shi-

kome's eyes, killing it instantly; the other thwacks
into the palace wall. The remaining guard wails in
fear and surprise and the alarm goes up. All hell
breaks louse and the castle swarms sith Samurai
and Shikome in seconds. You try to escape, but are
soon spotted and are buried under a wave of attack-
vcs. Moichi is slain out of hand, but they take you

245-246

prisoner, making gibes about the Shogun and his
champion us they do so ~ they plainly know who
you are. You are filled with sorrow at the loss of
your loyal retainer.

You are unceremoniously thrown into a small cell in
the palace dungeon. The gaoler, a large beefy man
im 2 Stained leather jerkin, says jeeringly, ‘You will
be taken before the Shogun Tsietsin on the mor-
row. He then slams the massive, iron-studded,
oaken door of the cell in your face,

You are alone. They have taken your swords, and it
is this rather than the cruel gibes and the indignity
of capture that fills you with shame. Lose 1 Honour
point for their loss. ‘here is nothing you can do but
wait for the morning, so you lie down on the
wooden pallet in the corner and go to sleep. Turn to

316.

245
here is no pursuit as you hastily leave the area of
the ford, but the Shagun’s champion is supposed ta
keep the roads and river-crossings of the land open
and safe for the common folk, You have failed in this
duty. Subtract 1 from your Honour and tur to 263.

246
The great serpent, wide as a tree, tries to bite off
your head. You have no choice but to fight il.

GREAT SERPENT SKILL10

if you win, turn to 272.

STAMINA IO
247-248

247

The silver Samurai’s voice rings out across the En-
chanted Garden: ‘You are without honour and no
Samurai.’ You are soon nearing the twin statues of
the demon and the captive priestess. The magician
appears again out of thin air and the two statues, the
black-skinned, red-tusked demon and the pale-
skinned priestess come to life. She kneels at your
feet imploring you to save her from the Pit of
Demons, but her captor yanks the chain cruelly and
she is pulled to the floor. The demon throws the
chain at your head and speaks the words of the Spell
of Petrifaction. You are turned to stone in his place
and he is now free. You make a curious counter-
paint tothe fallen priestess who is now a statue once
more. Not until another brave advenhurrer finds the
scarlet pagoda will you taste hfe again.

248

One of the arrows buries itself in one of the Shi-
kome‘s eyes, killing it instantly; the other thwacks
into the palace wall. The remaining guard wails in
fear and surprise and the alarm goes up. All hell
breaks loose and the castle swarms with Samurai
and Shikome in seconds. You try to escape, but are
soon spotted and are buried under a wave of attack
ers. They take you prisoner, making gibes about the
Shogun and his champion as they do so — they
plainly know who you are.

You are unceremoniously thrown into a small cellin
the palace dungeon. The gaoler, a large beefy man

249

in 2 stained leather jerkin, says jeeringly, “You will
be taken before the Shogun Tsietsin on the mor-
row.” He then slams the massive, iron-studded,
oaken door of the cell in your face.

You are alone. They have taken your swords and it
is this rather than the cruel gibes and the indignity
of capture that fills you with shame. Lose 1 Honour
point for their loss. There ts nothing you can dou but
wait for the morning, 50 you lie down on the
wooden palictin the corner and go tu sleep. Turn to
316.

249

The path you have taken into the Spider Fens sinks
gradually below the level of the marshes and lakes,
high walls of clay holding back the water from the
sunken path. You seem to be making good pro-
gress. You are nearing the southern edye of the
Ifiang-Kiang estuary. [f you wish to return to the
edec of the fen and choose another route, turn back
to 17 and choose again. If you wish to continue to
the estuary, turn te 33-

250-251

250
‘T cannot slay this Samurai in cold blood," you say
loudly, and a cry of disappointment goes up from
the villagers. ‘But he should pay for his crime!’ and
‘Revenge, revenge!’ they shout.

fhe captive Samurai sits up in surprise and then
bows low before you and offers you his sword.
‘Thank you, my lord. My allegiance is to the Shogun
Hasekawa still in my heart, but T could not say thus,
in the service of Tsietsin as 1 was. But now I re-
nounce the traitor Tsictsin and pledge my sword to
you, my lord. Take me as your loyal companion.’

Will you take him with you (turn to 276), or, if you
think he is lyimg, tell him to return to Tsietsin (furn

to 264)?

252
The brass key is intricately decorated with carvings
of serpentine dragons, but there is na clue as to its
use. The parchment, howeyer, is a map of the
Spider Fens beyond the Hiang-Kiang river. It pur-
ports to show a safe route through that forsaken
fand and there is a path leading to a scarlet seven-
fiered pagoda. You stuff key and parchment inside
your boot and explore the woods for a dry resting-
place. Tum to 372-

Sei ES ee
ave
252-254

252
You acl immediately. You grab your sword and
whip it from the scabbard and across the throat
of the first Shikome in one fluid motion. It falls,
burbliny: horribly, dead. The other steps back in
astonishment and you close in to the attack.

SHIKOME GUARD

If you win, burn to 280.

SKILLS STAMINA?

253

The old charcoal-burner takes you along a winding
track that leads to the vales of Kanshuro, where
wooded plateaux are riven by beautiful and peace-
ful ales which nestle unseen between cliffs cut into
the limestone by the rivers which formed them. At
dusk you take a path dawn into the Vale of Tinshu
tk» a small and picturesque village. You turn to the
old man to ask its name, but he has fallen to the
ground. You try to rouse him, but his heart has
stoppud. Tle is dead. Turn ta 5-

254
You will haye to face it alone. The toad leaps for-
ward and a mighty battle ensues. You manage to
slay Graalsch the toad, and even the mantis, but at
the end you are too weak. The Bronze Man comes
fonvard and tears you limb from limb, while the
Dai-Oni laughs mockingly. Your adventure ends
here,

255-256

255

You drop your shoulder and harge into one of the
monsters, then knock it off balance with the flat of
your sword. A shower of water pours from the
hollow basin in the top of its head. It clutches ils
claws to its head, makes a sound as if it were
choking or drowning and dives back into the river.
Realizing they use the pool of water on top of their
heads to breathe, you concentrate on knocking
them olf balance so that the water is shed. They are
forced to retreat to the river and you are left stand-
ing on the bank, tired but victoriaus, Turn to 393.

You shout an order to Moichi. The Shikome start in
Surprise and you both fall upon them. You must
fisht two, while Moichi deals with the other.

F SKILL STAMINA
First SHIKOME 8 9
second SITTTKOME 4 8

It you have killed them within nine rounds of com-
def, turn to 336. Otherwise turn to 218.
257-260

257
‘I'he trident’s tines bury themselves in your back. If
you are wearing armour, turn to 67. If not, turn to

39:

258
What will you do? Try to touch the serpent with an
antler, if you have one (turn to 290)? Blow a hom, if
you have one (turn to 318)? Or try ta use the Phoenix
Ruby in some way, if you have il (turn to 328)? If you
have nonce of these items, turn to 246.

259

The Groundhog moves surprisingly quickly on its
powerful short legs, but you reach the crest before it
and look down upon a breathtaking panorama. The
ereat plain of the lower Miang-Kiang River lies
heloswy you; in the distance is its delta amid the
Spider Fens of Kumo. The Spider Fens are lost
beneath a pall of mist. Knowing that to detour
around the enormous delta would take weeks, you
set out down the gentle slope of the valley, leaving
the Groundhog behind. Tum to 27.

260
The cowled figure is unconcerned: he laughs and
gestures again. Another formless shape of misty
blackness rises from the pit. It forms into a
shadowy semblance of yourself, a sight that fills you
with fear. But it does not attack you. Instead it
reaches into your mind and offers you power,
wealth, fame, kingdoms to rule, history to wnite-

261—263

‘All these can be yours if you sill only swear alle-
giance to Ikiru, your master,” it whispers in your
mind. You feel a terrible compulsion ta give in, the
temptation is so great; you begin to thirst for power
and wealth. If your Honcuris 5 or more, tum to 27.
ifitisless than 5, turn to 324.

262

Teeming rain obscures your vision as you climb
towards the low hill. [he water-level is rising
guickly: you might well have drowned if you had
not taken this path. As the ground slopes up and
vou leave the nsing waters behind, you notice that
all the creatures of the swamp — rals, marsh sala-
mandets and even a giant dragon-newt which
seems too scared to contemplate gobbling you up—
are racing towards the same patch of high ground tb
escape the flood. Turn to 149.

262
You run forward and leap high into the air. Test your
Inck. If you are Lucky, turn to 286. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 334-

263
itis not long before new dangers take your mind off
those past. Beyond the valley of the upper Ihang-
Kiang River lies a ridge of slate that cuts the skyline
ike a saw. You are nearing the top of this when the
whole shelf of slate upon which you are standing
Degins to tremble. It feels like an earthquake, as if
the whole of Hachiman has turned to jelly. There is
264-267

alow cave near by. You could crawl undemeath the
overhanging rock (turn to 205). If you dedde instead
to lie prone where you are, turn to 193.

264
You send the man away. The villagers thank yau for
saving them, but many of them add, ‘But I wish you
had had the sense to slay that black-hearted, dis-
honourable Samurai.’ After a small celebration, you
take your leave and head back to the main road.
Turn to 24.

265
You dash towards the cave, but the Groundhog
intercepts you. You must fight it.

GROUNDHOG

if you win, you may enter the cave (turn to 355).

SKILLS STAMINA 22

266
The Mantis Demon K’rilk hurries towards you, its
foreleys raised to strike. You must fight the Mantis
Demon but, because of its chitinous armour, your
blows will only do 1 point of stamina damage if
you hit it (this can be increased to 2 with 2 Luck
roll).

MANTIS DEMON
If you win, turn to 346.

SKILLS STAMINA 10

267
As soon as you put down the key, your one good

268-269

eye stops its roaming, so you decide to explore the
woods for a dry resting-place. You may restore 1
SKILL point. Turn tp 371-

268
You launch desperately into the attack, knowing
they are about to do the same. Within seconds you
have slain one, but the other begins to howl wildly
in fear. In moments the castle is swarming with
Samurai and Shikome. You try to escape, but are
soon spotted and are buried under a wave of attack-
ers. They take you prisoner, making gibes about the
Shogun and his champion as they do so — they
plainly know who you are.

You are unceremoniously thrown into a small cellin
the palace dungeon. The gaoler, a large beefy man
in a stained leather jerkin, says jeeringly, “You will
be taken before the Shogun Tsietsin on the mor-
row. He then slams the massive, iron-studded,
gaken door of the cell in your face.

You are alone. They have taken your swords, and it
is this rather than the cruel gibes and the indignity
of capture that fills you with shame. Lose 1 Honour
point for their loss. There is nothing you can do but
wait for the morning, so you lie down on the
wooden pallet in the corner and go to sleep. ‘l'urn to

316.

269
Howls of derision float down the breeze as you
hastly put as much distance as you can between
270

yourself and the peasants. lt is only when you slow
dawn through lack of breath that the ignominy of
having fled when you should have been protecting
the honour of the Shogun hits you. Ifyou carry onin
this manner you will be utterly without honour and
no longer a Samurai. Subtract 2 fom your Honour
and continue on your way. Turn to 195-

270
A terrible thing happens. Out of the body of the
Dai-Oni, a spectral shape coalesces, a ghostly form
of the demon, with insubstantial taloned hands. Itis
a Shura, or warrior ghost, the spirit of the Dai-Oni
come to avenge its death.

You must fight the Shura, When it hits you, you lose
STAMINA in the normal way, bul there are no
wounds; it is draining your strength.

SHURA

Ifyou win, the Shura simply fades away. Turn to 76.

SKILLY STAMINAS

271-274

271

The Legion of the Seyenth Seal were the honour
euard of the first Shogun. Their like as warriors has
never been seen again. They were wiped out when
they refused to surrender to a force ten times their
size five hundred years ago. The armour is of
archaic design but the highest quality. As you prise
it free from the rock, the chalcedony flowers break
into crystal drops with a tinkling crash, then youare
struck a heavy blow from behind. Lose 3 51rAMINA
points. If you are still alive, you decide to quit the
chamber as quickly as possible. Tum to 375.

272

Ihe dead serpent sinks slowly into the mire. Some
sleek submerged predator slams into the carcass
and begins to consume it as you watch. There is
nothing else of interest, so you decide to return to
the Hub. Return to 8 and choose again, but you
cannot choose an option you have already tried.

273

The ledge is now cracked and has subsicied in parts,
making the going difficult. At last you come to a
smooth area where you decide to eal. As you are
reaching into your backpack the ground starts to
tremble once more. There is another cave near by.
Will you mun into it (turn to 329), or lie prone again
(turn to 385)?

274
The Shadow Demon lunges at you. You swing
275-276

Singing Death in a great two-handed cut. As the
sword connects, it gives a single pulse of blazing
white light. ‘The Demon howls in agony — a distant
faint wail — and its shadowy substance is burst
asunder, shards of blackness flying apart until
nothing ts left. Turn to 212.

275
Ginsei advances, legs bowed, with the tip of his
sword angled towards your throat. You step for-
ward to meet him-in single combat, leaving the
drawing of your sword so late that he is convinced
he has the advantage. Then you draw the blade and
strike in one fluid motion, faster than the strike of a
cobra. hor all yourspeed, Ginsei too is quick, and he
half parries the cut that would have sent his head
tumbling from his shoulders, taking the blow in-
stead on his sword-arm. You have wounded him
and reduced his skr1.1.by your sudden strike. Blood
runs down over the hilt of his Katana. Now fighton.

GINSEI THE RONIN
If you win, tum to 399.

SKILLQ STAMINA 44

276
‘Thank you, my lord. You will not regretit,’ he savs
quickly. The villagers begin to disperse, darkly mut-
tering things like ‘They‘re all the same!’ As you head
back to the main road, he tells you his name is
Yomitsume Moichi, and that you can call him
Mojichi.

277

You travel north, your Samurai retainer chatting
mcessantiy about his family and his life history, sv
much so that you begin to regret your decision. Al
last he falls silent when you rounda low hill to seea
fortified castle about half a leasrue from the road. ’It
is the fortress of Lord Isietsin the traitor, my lord,’
says Moichi quietly. Will you press on with your
mission (furn to 288), or decide that the honour of
the Shogun must be upheld and try to enter the
castle and slay the traitor (turn lo 300)?

277

You caper up and down, making strange sounds
and yestures, but the scaly green monsters are
unimpressed. They are forcing you back to the
river-bank. Your sword flashes through the air, as a
magical barrier of blades surrounded vou, butatlast
one of the creatures gets through your guard. You
are knocked te the ground and dragged into the
river. You have fallen into the clutches of the Kappa,
from which there is no escape.

278-280

278

The Ki-Rin takes to the air, its hoofs flashing with
fire. As it swoops to the attack, the Mantis Demon
waits stock-still. At the last moment, its head lashes
forward with blinding speed and bites off the head
of the Ki-Rin, whose decapitated bady falls cut of
the sky and then fades out of existence as if it had
never been. Remove its name from the lst of your
allies on your Advenfure Sheel. The Mantis Demon
barely pauses before scuttling towards you. If you
are now without allies, turn to 266. Othenvise
which ally will you commit now {use only those
listed on your Adventure Skeet):

The Tatsu? Turn to 294
The Golden Company? Tum to 304
The Phoenix? Turn to 320
Eleanor the Enchantress? Turn to 330

279

The path winds tortuously on and the rain becomes
torrential. After a time the water-level begins to rise
rapidly until you are knee-deep in water and the
route the path takes can only be guessed by tracing
lines between the scrawny bulrushes that grow up
on either side of it. Will you forge on (furn to 229), or
try to find the route that leads to the low hill you
recently passed (furn to 181)?

280
You step over the bodies of the Shikome guards and
into the palace, Turn to 158.

281-282

281

You place your back against a tree, as a cloud of
smoke obscures your vision and causes you to
cough hormbly and your eyes to smart. You force
them open as two of the charcoal-bumers attack.
They have gained the initiative and can attack twice
in a row before you can strike back. Your first two
Attack Rolls count only as attempts to parry: you do
not inflict any loss of STAMINA if you win,

SKILL STAMINA

First

CHARCOAL-BURNER 6 10
Second

CHARCOAL-BURNER 7 9

If you kill the first of your attackers without being
hurt yourself, turn to 347. If you have been wound-
ed by their staves by the time you have killed one of
them, turn to 365.

282
He opens the doorand walks towards where you lie
huddled on the pallet. He leans over you. Suddenly
you twist around and drive your fistat him. He reels
back in surprise. You must fight the gaoler, but
deduct 2 from your sxivt. as you do not have your
swords.

GAOLER SKILL? STAMINA

If you kill the gaoler in four combat rounds or less,
turn to 308. If it takes five or more rounds, turn ta

332.
283-284

283
Your feet slide across the slime and you are on the
brink of disaster when one of your feet catches
against the shell of a giant water-snail and you
regain your balance so that you can teeter to the far
bank, just as another of the scaly green monsters
rises from the depths. Turn to 297.

284
You gather your legs beneath you and leap high into
the air, the years of training in this art enabling you
to achieve heights many think impossible. It is just
enough for you to catch at the battlements and, like
a shade, you slide over the wall into the castle.
Quickly you hide behind a stable.

Across the castle courtyard is a square stone keep,
with pagoda-like roofs and carved gables, the palace
of Lord ‘I'sietsin. But it is the two palace guards
flanking the doors thal really draw your aticntion.
They are Shikome, vile humanoid beings, but hairy
as apes, and with claws, langs and horrible snouted
faces. They are dressed in dirty and tattered imita-
tions of Samurai armour, although their weapons
stem in excellent condition. The presence of Shi-
kome can only mean that Tsietsin is in league with
Ikiru, Master of Shadows. Tsietsin will be im the
palace, and it seems even more imporiant than
before to slay him.

When it is late evening, you decide to act. If you
have the skill of Kyujutsu, you can try to kill both
the ruards as swifth as possible with two single

285

bow-shots (furn to 46). Ifyou cannot, or da not wish
to use this skill, you can walk casually towards them
and then suddenly attack (turn to 64), walk forward
and say you have an important message for Lord
Tsietsim (firn to 84) or simply stride forward as
authoritatively as possible, salute and walk into the
palace asif they were not there (turn to 100),

285
The track you have taken winds tortuously through
the mire until you have lost all sense of direction. If
you wish to return to the edges of the fen and
choose another route, go back to 17. If instead you
forge ahead, turn to 309. .

286-287

286

You fly over the undead wamior and land nimbly on
the other side. The sky is suddenly lighter. Turning
around you see to your surprise that the Samurai is
no longer there, nor are the skeletal warriors. The
river flows cleanly and is untainted. Leaves swirl
about the bridge in a soit breeze. You decide not to
linger, 50 you continue on the road. Tur tw 221-

287

You cannon in your blindness into the doorpost, but
the feel of soft turf underfoot and the wind on your
cheek confirm that you have made it out of the
hovel. After a few minutes, during which vou dono
more than risk a dozen faltering sieps, one of your
eyes pops back into place. You can sev again, but
with only one eve you cannol co-ordinate your
sword-strakes, and at imes your good eye rolls
around at random making you virtually blind again.
Subtract 2 from your skt1.1.. If you wish to leave the
key and the parchment which brought such bad
luck, turn to 267. If you scrutinize them as best you
can, turn to 252.

288

You continue on your way, and Moichi’s movd
lightens. He keeps talking and, although irritating,
he seems 2 simple fellow who honourably follows
the Way of Bushido closely. Presently the road
curves between two steep, wooded hills, and you
and Moichi walk on through the pleasant valley,
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 106. If you
are not, tiirn to 120.

259

As Ginsei advances, lees bowed, his sword-tip
angled towards your throat, you notch an arrow ta
your bow and let fly. Ginsei’s blade is a blur of
motion as he cuts the arrow in two, knocking the
head aside just before it pierces him. He sneers
malevolently. “So you fight like an ashigaru, a
peasant soldier. I care nothing for your underhand
tricks.” You have used your bow against a man
armed only with a ssvord who has challenged you to
single combat. You are dishonoured by your unfair
action. Subtract 1 from your Honour. Turn to 302.
290

290

The serpent’s head arcs down towards you, but you

dodge aside and rap it smartly with the antler. The
effect is startling. A pulse of magical energy flows

through you. The serpent and the antler abruptly

disappear in a flash of blue light. In their place hes a

thin rod of dark wood. Around it writhes a stylized

serpent, carved into the wood. You pick it up —

power flows through it —- and pocket it. Note it on
your Adventure Sheet. You turn and step through the
door, back to the Hub. Return to8 and choose again,
but you cannot choose an option you have tried
already.

291-292

291
Your sword has been making no impression on the
steely silver skin of the Samurai. Your brow drips
with sweat, If you wish to flee and try to take the
path which leads to the statues of the priestess and
the demon, turn to 247. If you refuse to let your
honour be tarnished through flight, turn to 81.

292

You must fight the Dai-Oni. Whenever it hits you,
you lose 2STAMIN 4 points asin nomnal combat, but
also roll one extra die: if the result is 1 or 2, turn to
90; if the result is 5 or 4, turn to 102; if the result is 5
or 6, furn to 118. |

DALONI SKILL 10
If you win, turn to 74.

STAMINA LO

293-294

293

As you stride forward menacingly, several of the
peasants break and flee deep into the woods. Secing
that they have been deserted by their comrades, the
others throw down their staves and follow suit.
you feel that you have done enough to protect the
good name of your lord, you may continue on your
way (farm to 195). Lf you are determined to teach
them a lesson, turn to 331-

294
the Tatsu gallops into the air and dives straight at
K’rilk. Just as the Mantis Demon rears back to strike,
the Tatsu breathes a stream of flame from its mouth
that engulfs the Mantis Demon, which burns like
Straw and is reduced to ashes within seconds. The
Tatsu turns to you, ‘Farewell, manling, and good
fortune: I must leave you now.” With that it rides
away into the skies. The ghostly crowd seems to
applaud as if from a great distance. The Dai-Oni is
almost apoplectic with rage-

‘Kill, Gargantus, kill? he screams, and the huge
bronze goat-man lumbers forward. If you are now
without allies, turn te 364. Otheryise which ally will
you commit now {use only those listed on your
Adventure Skeet): the Ki-Rin (tum to 382), or the
Goiden Company (turn to 198)?

—— =
295-298

295

As you reach the crest, a vast panorama opens up.
The great valley of the lower Hiang-Kiang River lies
below you. In the distance lies its delta amid the
Spider Fens of Kumo. The Spider Fens are lost ina
pall of mist. Knowing that to detour around the
enormous delta would take weeks, you setoffdown
the zentle slope of the valicy. Turn to 17-

296

He ignores your moans of pain and moves on,
waking other prisoners, sliding black bread and
stale water through flaps in the doors, Presently he
returns and opens your cell door. But this time he
has three soldiers with him. Will you pretend to
have been wounded and then suddenly attack them
(turn to 370), ur pretend to have been wounded and,
when they have taken you out of the cell, grab a
weapon and try to run away (turn to 380)?

297
You take up a defensive position near the far bank of

the river, as several more of the scaly green mons-
ters rise dripping from the depths and converge on
you. If you have the skill of Karumijutsu and wish to
try to leap over their heads to safety, turn to 35- If
you decide to stand your ground and fight it out,
turn to 13. If instead you surrender, turn to 3.

298
You skirt the pil and walk towards the throne,
holding Singing Death in front of you. As you near

299

it, the shadows fall back, unable tu resist the power
of the sword. Those that stray too close are instantly
vaporized by its touch. Lurn to 121-

299
inside, the scarlet pagoda is clean but bare, except

for a mirror in a screen before you. You reach
forward to touch it and it seems to absorb first your
hand and then the whole of you. Before you know
what is happening you are standing in the most
beautiful garden you have ever seen. Atits centre is
an ornamental pond into which bubbles a crystal
clear spring. Several winding paths lead from the
point where you stand to the pond but the most
interesting thing about the garden apart from the
flowers and climbers, which are a riot of colour, are
the statues.

There are five magnilicent statues in all, [he nearest
one on the left is of a silver Samurai; the nearest on
the right comprises a young priestess kneeling

|

300

dawn with a terrible demon bchind her, who holds
a chain that is fastened around her neck. She is
marked with a dragonfly tattoo on her bared shoul
der. Separate paths lead to these statues and,
beyond them, are two still more fearsome stone
colossi. One is of Hammurabi, the Lord of Flies, in
the form of a gigantic dragonfly. The other is of the
dreaded Sea Dragon, which rises from its pedestal
like a waterspout. Turn to 137.

300

Gain 1 Honour point for your brave decision.
Moichi‘s face falls when you tell him, but then he
says, “Well, my lord, I suppose that is the honour-
able thing to do. I know a hidden postern gate at the
rear of the castle and the password — we can gain
entrance there with ease, if you will allow this
humble warmior to lead such a one as you, O mighty
lord.’ He bows low. You cannot quite tell whether or
not Moichi is being sarcasticin his praise of you, but
you tell him to lead on anyway. He smiles roughly
and leads you by a roundabout route to the rear of
the castle where it nestles against the foothills of the
southern Shios‘ti Mountains. You wait until night-
fall before approaching the hidden gate. Moichi
svalks up to a section of the wall and knocks onit. A
slat opens and twoeyes, glittering in the moonlight,
stare out. ‘Who goes there?’ a voice hisses. “Tt is I,
Moichi. We have returned from a night patrol on
Lord ‘I'sielsin’s personal orders. The password is
“Cherry Blossam’”." With that, the door slides open,

301-302

allowing you and Moichi to step in. Withouta word,
you drive your fist into the surprised guard's face.
The guard falls without a sound. Turn to 136.

301
Gimsei advances, legs bowed, with the tip of his
sword angled towards your throat. You meet himin
single combat.

GINSEILTHERONIN SkitlL1to STAMINA16

If you vin, turn to 399.

302
You must fight them both.

SKIL STAMINA
First SAMURAI 7 g
Second SAMURAI 8 7
If you kill them both, turn to 310.

O33

393

Both of your eyes roll up inte your head, making
you completely blind; then one rolls back into place
and you can make outa large brass key beneath the
puppet and some creased and greasy parchment.
‘Taking both key and parchment, you throw the box
outside and feel yoursvay to the door of the hovel as
your eyes roll up into your head once more. Turn to
287.

304
The knights of the Golden Company utter a battle-

try and charge forward with military precision.
However, their weapons, straight swords and
maces, make litte impression on the chitinous
armour of the Mantis Demon. K’rilk lays aboutitself
with ferocious accuracy, each super-fast dart of its
head biting a knight in two. Within moments they
are all dead. You stand aghast atits hormble power.
Remove the knights from the list of allies on your
Adventire Sheet. K’rilk tums upon vou and scuttics
forward. If you are now without allies, turn to 266.
Otherwise svhich ally will you commit now (use
only those listed on your Adventure Siieef): the Tatsu
{turn io 294) or the Ki-Rin (tum tp 278)?

305
You have slain the Groundhog. You try on the
armour: it isa good fit, and you may add 1 to your
SKILL while wearing it. There is nothing else here,
so you climb to the crest to see what hes beyond.
Turn fo 295-

306

306

A troop of fifteen riders appears on the rad ahead
of you. They are wearing blue and green lacquered
battle armour and you recognize the symbol embla-
zoned on a banner one of them bears. Thev are
Samurai of Lord Tsietsin. At the sight of you, they
spur their horses into a charge, one af them shout-
ing, “It’s the Shogun’s lackey — take him! There is
nowhere to run to and soon they: are upon vou. You
stuggle mightily, slaving three of them and
wounding several more, but there are tag many and
soon you are securely bound and strapped over a
horse’s back. ‘Lord ‘I'sietsin will be pleased with this
little catch,’ one of them quips.

They take you to the castle you passed on the road.
You are led into the courtyard, where many of Lorcl
Tsietsin'’s Samurai retainers gather around to laug gh
and mock you. You are unceremoniously thrown
into a small cellin the palace dungeon. The aoler, a
large beefy man in a stained leather jerkin, says
jecringly, “You will be taken before the Shagun
fsietsin on the morrow.’ He then slams the mass-

Ive, iron-studded, oaken door of the cell in your
face.

You are alone. They have taken your swords, and it
is this rather than the cruel gibes and the indignity
of capture that fills you with shame. Lose 1 Honour
point for their loss. Phere is nothing you can do but
wait for the morning, so you lie down on the
wooden pallet in the corner and po to sleep, ‘urn to
326.
307-309

397
The bravest of the charcoal-bumers, four tough-
looking weather-beaten men, charge you together,
brandishing their staves. You must fight them, but
you wisely back up against a tree, so that only two
can assail you at once-

SKILL STAMINA

First

CHARCOAL-BURNER 6 10
Second

CHARCOAL-BURNER 7 9

if you kill the first of your attackers without being
hurt, turn to 347. If you have been wounded by the
lime you have killed one of them, turn to 365.

308
Your last blow lays out the gaoler. Without hesitat-
ing, you run out of the cell. You are in a long,
cell-lined, tarch-lit comidar that stretches into dark-
ness to left and right. Will vou turn left (turn to 344)
or night (turn to 356)?

399

After another half a day, during which you make
slow but steady progress, only occasionally step-
ping off the path into the mire, it begins to rain. The
mist thins until a low hill in the middle of the fens is
revealed a few miles to the east. A small path
diverges from the path you are on towards it. Will
you take the path that leads to the hill (turn to 261),
or press on (turn to 279)?

310-312

310
Sheathing your blade, you spring after Lord Tsiet-
sin. Soon you have caught up with him, just in time
to see him ducking through a black and gold lac-
quered door You follow, and burst int) a large,
richly decorated room, with a black and gold lac-
queéred chest in one corner. Tsiectsin, gibbering in
fear, has raised a trap-dowr in one corner of the
room. When he sees that you will reach him before
he can manoeuvre his vast bulk down it, he falls to
his Knees before you. Turn to 178.

R11
You clamber on toa mossy mound near the far bank
of the river as several more of the scaly green
rmsters ris€ dripping from the depths and con-
verge on you- If you hare the skill of Karumijutsu
and wish to try to leap over their heads to safety,
turn to 35. If you decide to stand your ground and
fightit out, turn to 13. [f instead you surrender, turn
fo 3.

312
You walk forward and cast the sword into the pil.
Thiru leaps up and cries, ‘No, don't.’ His voice is like
the rustle of leaves. As the sword disappears from
sight. the hall begins to shudder. The shadows
around Ikiru begin to shred and break up. His
throne begins to cumble and a keening wind
rushes through the hall. It strikes Tkiru and begins lo
op him apart. He is scattered like chaff and des-
troyed. Everything begins to crumble about youand
313

the pit falls in on itself, burying Singing Death. You
manage to escape the destruction and although you
have slain [kiru, Singing Death is forever lost in the
nether regions.

When you return to Konichi, the Shogun thanks
you, but sinks into a grim depression. Without
Singing Death, Hachiman begins to collapse as a
state, Rebel] lords break away and barbarian raids
soon become full-blown invasions, often allied to
local rebel lards. It is in one of these campaigns that
you are slain, trying to defend your nation. But it is
all to no avail: Hachiman sinks into a new dark age,
and ultimately you have failed.

333

Your feverish tearing loosens the fastenings of each
piece of armour one by one, and they drift into the
depths. At last you break the surface and throw
your swords to the edge of the poo! before dimbing
out, Luckily the well-shaft opens out on to a natural
water-filled caye and there is a ledge just above the
water-level. By feeling around in the darkness you
locate a tunnel which you decide to explore. Your
armour is lost in the depths of the pool: until you
find another suit to fit you, all weapons will do 4
STAMINA points of damage every time you are hitin
combat, instead of just 2. Turn to 363.

re: ooh Fee

314-317

3134
Will you press on down the road and try to skirt past
Tsietsin’s home without being spotted (turn to 338},
or decide that the honour of the Shogun must be
upheld and try to get into the castle and slay Lord
Tsietsin {turn to 350)?

345
If you have the skill of Kyujutsu and wish to try to
scare them off with a humming-bulb arrow, tum to
21. Otherwise you try a swing with your sword as
the nearest of the monsters attacks. Turn to 53.

316

Thin arrows of sunlight penetrate your dark cell
from the small window the next day. You awake to
the sound ofa rattle at your cell doar. Itis the gaoler.
“Wake up, you dog,’ he cries. ‘I shall be coming to
take you to Tsietsin soon!’ He is about to move on.
Will you moan loudly as if you were very ill or badly
wounded, hoping he will come in so that you can
attack him (turn to 20), or wait until he returns (tum
to 40)?

317
The dyke runs for mile after mile, the product of an
ancient civilization that lived in the delta before the
eternal mists descended. After a while the map
directs you to take a path that leads down to the
shore of the lake, where it forks. One fork leads toa
crescent of basalt stepping-stones, great hexagonal
columns of rock, a veritable giant’s causeway that
318-320

leads deep into the mist. The other leads into a peat
bog which is labelled on the map with a skull
transfixed by a sword, Will you brave the giant's
causeway (turn to 113}, or the bog (turn to 217)? The
map suggests that the pagoda lies at the end of one
of these, butitis not plain which.

318
The horn gives an ear-splitting blast, which echoes
through the miasmal swamp, bul it is as if the
serpent has no ears at all. Turn to 246-

319

A circle of ten of the most venerabletooking
peasants surround the well outside the headman’s
house. They part deferentially to allow you within
their circle, and the headman, who carries a nbbon
of office and the headman’s medal, invites you to
stay with them until their business is finished.
Then, surprisingly, they ignore you and go on
talking about village matters. Indeed, strangely
enuugh, they secm to be deciding whether or not to
stop planting crops altogether. The western sky isa
blaze of sunset red. Will you leave the village and
walk off into the sunset (him to 22), or wait for them
to finish (turn te 155)?

20
The Phoenix takes to fea and hurtles towards the
Mantis Demon. At the last moment it halis, hover-
ing before K'rilk's threshing jaws. Justas the Mantis
Demon rears back to strike, the Phoenix engulis

320

itself in golden flame. The Mantis cannot stop itself
thrusting forward into the fire — and is instantly
consumed. Within seconds it is nothing but ash.
The Phoenix gives a cry of tiutmnph and then soars
skyward and away. Remore its name from the list of
your allies. The Dai-Oni is almast apoplectic with
Tage.

“Kill, Gargantus, kill!’ he screams and the huge
bronze goat-man lumbers forward. If you are now
without allies, turn to 364. Otherwise which ally will
you commit now (use only those listed on your
Aaveniure Sheet): the Ki-Rin (turn to 382) or Eleanor
the Enchantress (huirn to 22)?

321-322

321

You decline to meet the silver Samurai in single
combat. ‘Then you are a man without honour, lower
than a beast which was born without honour and
cannot be dishonoured. You deserve only dishon-
ourable death.” You have refused the time-
honoured challenge of a Samurai to fight in the
name of your lord the Shogun. Subtract 2 from your
Honour. The silver Samurai steps fonvard to do
battle; the sun flashing off his skin almost dazzles
you,

SILVER SAMURAI
lf you hit him three times, turn to 291.

SKILL 10 STAMINA i2

322
The traitor, Lord Tsictsin, is dead. The honour of
the Shogun and of Wachiman has been upheld.
Gain 1 Honour point for ridding the land of the evil
Lord Tsietsin, and for killing him in the middle of
his own castle. You look around the roam. Mostir it
is full of ommate decoration, but the large chest
catches your interest. You quickly openit. Insideisa
bag of 100 Gold Pieces, an arrow and an excellently
crafted suit of Samurai armour, obviously too small
for the overweight Tsietsin. You don the armour,

and find it is far superior to your own, especially
because it is made out of some unusually isht
metal. Gain 1 SKILL point.

If you have the skill of Kyujutsu, you recognize the
arrow as being crafted by the legendary master of

323

Kyujutsu, Tsunewara, who is reputed to have had
magical powers. It is fetched with white carle
feathers. lt should have the power of dispelling evil
Spirits. Noteit on your Adventure Sheet.

sudden sounds of shouting and the clash of
weapons come from outside, Tsietsin’s men will be
here any minute. You dart down the open trap-door
and close it behind you. Stairs lead down into
stygian blackness. You carefully descend: turn to
122.

333
You land on the edge of the pier of rack and then
helplessly roll into the frothing while waters below.
Unfortunately the scaly green monsters have placed
sharpened spikes just below the surlace upon
which you are now impaled. Your armour is pierced
m several places and you lose 5 STAMINA points. If
you are still alive, you manage to drag yourself off
the spikes and are washed up on the far bank just
out of the clutches of two of the monsters. Tum to

324-327

You succumb to its lure. ‘Power and wealth will be
mine, you think ta yourself and you fall on one
knee and offer your sword to Tkiru, saying. ‘l am
your loyal slave, O master." The demon he sum-
moned vanishes and Ikiru Jaughs—a sound like the
rustling of leaves. “You fool,” he whispers and
orders you to kill yourself, You find that you cannot
resist his will and gash open your stomach, te die in
agony.

345
Before you can say a word, one of the Kappa throws
a trident from beneath the waters. Test your Lick, If
you are Lucky, turn to 367. Lf you are Unlucky, tum

ta 373-

326
Will you carry on dow'n the road (turn to 362), or pay
a visit to Lord ‘I'sietsin and ask him to help you m
some way (turn to 376)?

327
The chest splinters as it hits the floor and 2 small
metal object spins across the floor, but you are
outside the hovel ina twinkling and decide to search
the woods for a dry resting-place. Your eyes stop
rolling around in your head quite soon, but one af
them wanders about from time to fime, as if you had
a bad squint. Sometimes it rolls up into your head so

328-330

that you can’t see through it at all. Your swordplay
will suffer until the puppet dragon’s curse is lifted.
Subtract 1 from your SkKILt, then turn to 371.

328
You hold up the ruby in front of it, but it takes no
notice and remains intent on making you its next
meal. Turn to 246.

329

AS soon as you reach the cave the trembling staps,
but you decide to enter in case it had presaged a
more violent quake. You light a torch and sev that
the cave is in fact a small grotto filled with pink
chalcedony flowers, like a bed of coral. Lying on top
of the rock flowers is a magnificent suit of lacquered
armour, a little dusty and mouldy but still resplen-
dent m the gold and blue colours of the Legion of the
Seventh Seal. Will you take the armour (turn to 271),
or leave straight away (turn to 375)?

330
Eleanor rushes forward. The Mantis Demon towers
above her, but she puts her hands together and
unleashes a ravening bolt of blue energy. However,
incredibly, it coruscates against the Mantis’s chit-
nous armour and is deflected to fade into the air.
The Mantis whips its head forward, bites into her
and gobbles her up horribly, Remove Eleanor’s
name from the list of allies on your Adventure Sheet.
331-332

K‘tllk hardly hesitates; it scuttles towards you. If
you are now without allies, turn to 266. Otherwise
which ally will you commit now (use only those
listed on your Adventure Sitee!): the Phoenix (turn to
320) or the Ki-Rin (turn to 278)?

331

Brandishing your katana, you plunge into the wood
on the trail of the impudent youth. He breaks cover
and sprints across a clearing in full view, butas you
turn to follow a trap closes on your shin, splintering
your greaves and holding you fastin a vice-like grip.
You fall heavily and stifle a groan. The trap is made
of iron: you might die of thirst before managing to
extricate yourself. Subtract 3 from your STAMINA
score. If you are still alive, will you cry out to the
charcoal-burners for help (turn to 37) or he low and
wait (turn to 65)?

332
The sound of battle brings more guards and they

dash intu the cell. One of them spears you in the
chest and the blond bubbles up into your lungs. You
slump to the dirty floor of the cell, to drownin your
own blood.

333-336

333
The tndent’s tines have pierced your armour and
broken one of your ribs. Louse 2 STAMINA points, Tf
you are still alive and wish to leave immediately,
turn to 335. If you drag the trident out of your flesh
and useit to threaten the Kappa, while trying to talk
to them, turn to 362.

334
Your leap did not take you high enough. The tn-
dead Samurai manages to catch your legs and bring
you tumbling to the ground. You spring to your
feet, but the skeletons surround you now. Turn ta

358-

335

There is no pursuit as you leave the Kappa’s ford
and it is not Jong before new dangers take your
mind off those past. Beyond the valley of the upper
Hiang-Kiang lies a ridge of slate that cuts the skyline
ike 2 saw. You are nearing the top of this when the
whole shelf of slate upon which you are standing
begins to tremble. It feels like an earthquake, as if
the whole of Hachiman has turned to jelly. ‘There is
2 low cave near by: you could crawl underneath the
overhanging rock (turn to 205). IF you decide instead
to lie prone where you are, turn to 103.

336
Moichi is wounded, but has killed his opponent.
You pause for breath and Moichi grins at you happi-
ly. ‘Well fought, my lord- It is an honour to fight by
337

your side.” He bows obsequiously. “Enough of this
veiled mockery,’ you reply. "On to the heart of the
palace!’

You run down a long corridor and soon find your
self lost in a maze of corridors and rooms, mostly
empty save forservants and slaves, who stare at you
inamazement. You are rounding a corner when you
are prevted by a sight that causes you to pull up
shortin surprise. You have bumped into Lord Tsiet-
sin himself, waddling down the comdor towards
you, a Samurai at either side. Lord Tsietsin isa large
fat man with great blubbery jaws and a face
wreathed in fat. Two pig-like eyes flare at you in
outraze. He wears a voluminous kimono, adorned
with gold leaf. You notice thal he is quite openly
wearing the hat which indicates the office of Sho-
gun.
‘I'sielsin gasps in fear as he recognizes you, signals
to his suards, turns around and lumbers away from
you. The Samurai draw their blades, bow and dash
to the attack. Moichi darts fonvard and engages
one. You must ight the other-
TSIETSIN’S
BODYGUARD

If you win, turn to 354-

SKILLG STAMINAS

337
The Groundhog is like a walking platform with a

broad back and eight stumpy legs. In the middle of
its back a huge slit-like mouth has opened up and

338-339

the edges, which have turned upwards to all but
envelop you, have a line of tails with hard balls of
bone at the ends, like living marning stars. You
draw your katana to give battle, but it will not be
easy, balanced precariously on the Groundhog’s
back as vou are. Subtract 1 from vour SKILL score for
this battle onlv-

GROUNDITOG SKILLS STAMINA 22

ii you win, you goon toinvestigate the cave. ‘Turn lo
355:

338
You trudge on. The land is less cultivated here,
wilder and more overgrown. Soon you are travel-
ling between bvo wooded hills through a shallow
valley. Fest your Luck. f youare Lucky, tur to 386. If
you are Unlucky, tum to 306-

339

The winding path crosses many more and eventu-
ally has you completely lost in the mist. You pause
to try to and get your bearings; then it begins to rain,
even though it is sill misty. It rains hard for fvo
whole days until the water-level has risen above
your head. There is nv escape fram the Spider Fens.
You swim many miles, but die exhausted.

a Sat ieee,
340-342

340

The Ki-Rin gazes at you benevolenily, filling you
with peace and tranquillity. “Your cause is a just
one, mortal, and you are a worthy choice for its
completion. You are of good heart. Because of this, I
shall aid you. I will be at the Place of Battle, to fight
with you against the Dai-Oni and his evil allies.’ Its
voice is lovely to listen to. You are about to thank it
when it utters a wild cry and takes to the air, leaving
you alone, A doorappears, hanging in the air before
you. You step through it and find yourself back in
the Hub, surrounded by stars and the eight doors.
Make a note on your Adventure Sheet that the Ki-Rin
is your ally, Return to 8 and choose again, but you
cannot choose an option that you have already
tried,

341
The silver Samurai steps forward to do battle. The
sun flashing on his skin almost dazzles you.

SILVER SAMURAI

Hf you hit him three times, turn to 291.

SKILL 10 STAMINA IZ

342
You are away before the guards have reacted, but
wwhen they see where you are going they do not
chase after you. Soon you come toa room filled with
weapons, clothes and the like. In it you find your
swords, but also that there is no way out. You are
trapped. You dash back up the corridor, but already
there arc more than ten guards waiting for you-

43-34

They charge forward. You fight valiantly, slaying
several in the close confines of the corridor, but at
last a spear thrust spills your guts on to the dungeon
floor and ends your life.

343
The flimsy material weighs next to nothing and you

stuff it into your pack before leaving the hut and
searching the woods fora dry resting-place. Turn to
377-

344

You run left, past dank and stinking prison walls,
There is 2 shout from up ahead — Hida, is that you?"
~and then a muffled curse and the sound of running
feet a guard is coming towards you. You try to hide
in the shadow of the corridor, but it is too light.
However, the sight of you takes him completely by
surprise, which allows you to strike him hard. Tle
Stagrers back, but draws his sword and comes back
at you, his face a mask of rage and pain. You must
fight him, but subtract 2 from your SKILL as you
have no swords.

GUARD SKILL F
If you win, turn to 88.

STAMINAG

345-348

345

Eyes smarting from the stinging gas which the
Forsaken One gives out when its flesh is pierced,
you struggle on down the tunnel and, mercifully,
into the open air low ona hillside near the village. It
seems the Rokuro-Kubi have stopped at the undead
corpse of the Forsaken Oneand you can escape their
village. Add 1 to your Lucx for surviving them, and
tum ta 397.

346
‘The Mantis Demon lies dead before you, oozing
black ichor. The Dai-Oni angnily shouts, “Gargan-
tus, slay the mortal!’ And the Bronze Man lumbers
towards you. Turn to 364.

You seem impervious to their blows, and when you
have slain one the others prostrate themselves at
your feet, begging formercy. You tell them that they
ate fools to think they could harm the Shogun’s
champion, ‘I'he oldest tells you that if you spare him
he can show you toa village where you may pass the
night safely, Will you tell him to lead on (turn to
179}, or demand that they swear an oath of alle
giance to the Shogun (turn to 163)?

348
As the Phoenix draws near, vou feel a strange
burning in your backpack. You reachinand pullout
the Phoenix Ruby. It is growing hot and radiating a
deep glow that bathes you in reddish light. Instinc-

348

dvely, you hold it up. The Phoenix utters another
wild cry and golden flames burst fron it, sa that it
becomes a fireball for a brief instant. ‘hen itlands a
litte way from you, regarding you strangely, mem-
branes flicking across the ruby glow of its eves from
ime to time. It imparts a message to you without
speaking:

‘I shall aid you. Look for me at the Place of Battle, O
bearer of the Ruby.’ Then it flies away. Note that the
Phoenix is your ally- You turn and step through the
door, Return to 8 and choose another option, but
you cannot choose one you have chosen already.

349-351

349
You are nearing the twin statues of the demon and

the captive priestess. ‘he magician appears again
oul of thin air and the two statues, the black-
skinned, rec-tusked demon and the pale-skinned
priestess come to life. She kneels at your feetimplor-
ing you to save her from the Pit of Demons, but her
captor yanks the chain cruelly and she is pulled to
the floor. The demon throws the chain at your head
and speaks the words of the Spell of Petifaction.

You are turned to stone in its place and it is now
free, You make a curious counterpoint to the fallen
priestess who is now a statue once more. Not until
another braye adventurer finds the scarlet pagoda
will you taste life again.

350

Gain 1 Monour point for your brave deasion. You
head purposefully towards Lord Tsielsin’s castle-
As you near it, you can pick out the soldiers lining
the walls from the glint of their weapons in the
sunlight. Will you walk boldly up to the entrance
and try to bluff your way in {turn to 374), or skirt the
walls and try to finda place where you could scale
them (turn lo 388)?

35+
Your arrow misses, but the charcoal-burners have
taken the hint. fhey meltaway into the woods from
which they cut the materials of their trade. Only the
oldest of them stays behind with his son, saying that

352

he will show you toa safe place ta spend the nightso
that it may not be said that his family have dishon-
oured 2 Samurai. Turn &)179-

352

The Ki-Rim eves you distastelully. [t gives you a
withering look of contempt and scom betore taking
to the air, leaving Fou alone on the mountain peak,
where an icy wind blows up and sheets of rain begin
to drench vou. A door appears in the air in front of
you and you seize your oppurtunity to escape the
elements by stepping through it. You find yourselé
back at the Hub, surrounded by stars and the eight
doors. Retin to § and choose again, bul you cannot
choose an option you have already tried.

353-334

353
Your hands scrabble feverishly at the fastenings of
your armour, but the chill waters sap your strength
and lack of oxygen causes you to pass out suddenly.
By the time the Rokuro-Kubi start to dine on your
tender flesh you are long drowned.

354

Moichi has also killed his opponent, but is slightly
wounded, Sheathing your blade, you spring after
Lord Tsietsin, Soon you have caught up with him,
just in time to see him ducking through a black and
Bold lacquered door. You and Moichi follow and
burst into a large richly decorated room, witha black
and gold lacquered chest in one comer. Tsietsin,
gibbering in fear, has raised a trap-door in one
corner of the roam. When he sees that you will reach
him before he can manoeuyre his vast bulk down it,
he falls to his knees before you.

‘Spare me, great warrior, please spare me. It was
lkiru: he forced me to tum against the nghtful
Shovun, forgive me, | shall be his loyal vassal from
now on,’ he gabbles, a tissue of transparent lies. As

355

you look down, feeling only contempt and lpathing,
Isictsin’s eyes natrow in cunning malice. His right
hand flicks through the air. A needic-like dagyer
flies from his hand and into your thigh, Lose 3
STAMINA points. If you are still alive, you stagger
back in surprise, as he Jurches to his feet, drawing
his sword. ‘Curse you, you swine,’ he cries and
slashes at you.

Moichi leaps forward and within moments, both of
you have ended Tsietsin’s miserable life. Turn to
366.

By the light of 2 torch you see that the cave is in facta
small grotto filled with pink chalcedony flowers,
like a bed of coral. Lying on top of the rock flowersis
2 magnificent suit of lacquered armour, a little
dusty, but sill resplendent in the gold and blue
colours of the Legion of the Seventh Seal. The
ll A bt

355

Legion of the Seventh Seal were the honour guard
of the first Shogun. Their like as warriors has never
been seen since. They were wiped out when they
Tefused to surrender to a force ten Hmes their size
five hundred years ago. The armour is of archaic
design but the highest quality. There is 2 tnkling
crash as you shatter some of the flowers in dislodg-
ing the armour, but you are pleased to see that it fits
and is miraculously light, You may add 1 to your
SKILL while wearing this armour, thanks to the
magic it contains. here is little else in the grotto, so
you leave and climb to the crest to see what lics
beyond, Turn to 295.

355-357

356

You run right, past cell doors. The corridor opens
oul into a large square room — 4 complete dead end.
However, it is lined with weapons, clothes, and
other bits and pieces. ‘lo your joy, stacked in a
comer are all your weapons. Quickly you pick thern
up and you feel whole once more. Gain 1 Luck
point for reclaiming your swords. There is a good
selection of arrows here: if you are a master of
Kyuyutsu, you may replenish any arrows you have
lost, up to twelve, or reorganize the types of your
arrows a5 you wish.

There is nothing else of terest to you, so you burn
round and mun back down the corridor and past
your old cell. Turn t& 132.

357
A split second after your hand falls upon the hilt of
your Katana, the head of the nearest monster is
sailing end over end towards the far bank. Its head-
less forso, still gripping a net, sinks lifeless beneath
358

the surface, The second monster is still surging
towards the ford, and you just have time to reach
the far bank, teetering dangerously on the green
slime every step of the way. Turn to 395-

358
There are six skeletons animated by ihe undead
Samurai, but only three of them can get at you ata
time. You must fight them all at once.

SKILL STAMINA
First SKELETON 6 -
Second SKELETON > -
Third SKELETON 7 7

if you defeat them all, you must fight the next three.

SKILL STAMINA
Fourth SKELETON 7 6
Fifth SKELETON 6 7
Sixth SKELETON 8 )

if you defeat these three, tum to 368.

359

359

You gingerly remove the chest from the secret cup-
board and set it on the straw-—covered floor. Then,
using the lip of your wakizashi, you prise open the
clasp, while shielding your eyes against any possi-
bie spray of flame. The clasp breaks and the lid flies
open to reveal a puppet dragon, like a jack-in-the-
box. lwo clouds of steam jet out from the puppet’s
nostrils and bathe your head in orange smoke. It
seems to seep into your eyes, which itch and start to
roll around in your head of their own accard. Will
you throw down the chest and leave (turn to 327), or
sneak a look at what lies beneath the puppet (turn to
303)?

360-361

The Phoenix swoops dangerously close to you.
Suddenly it bursts into flame, becoming for an
instant a golden fireball, and you are singed by its
flames. Lose 2 $174 MtNa points. Lf you still live, will
you fight the Phoenix (turn to 372), or try to man back
through the door hanging behind you (turn to 390)?

361

You decide to threaten that you will bring an army
of Samurai to kill the Kappa unless they can help in
your quest, The yellow eyes bob up and down in the
gloom, then one rises suddenly to the surface and
throws a sparkling red gem at your fect. ‘Tt is our
greatest treasure,” it hisses. “Now leave us.’ The
gem is a ruby shaped like a phoenix. A rare treasure
indeed, taken from a rich merchant who tried to
cross the ford a long time ago. Note it on your
Adventure Sheet. The Kappa disappear from view
and you decide to move on. Turn to 335-

362-363

362
You trudge on. The fand is less cultivated here,
wilder and more overgrown. Soon yau are travel-
ing between 6vo wooded hills through a Shallow
alley. Test your Lick. If vou are Lucky, turn to 386. If
you are Unlucky, turn to 396.

363

A grisly chattering noise from the well-shalt tells
you that the Rokuro-Kubi are on your tail as you
grope vour way blindly fonvard, Suddenly a slimy
touch makes your face burn. Acid eats into yout
flesh. Lose 3 STAMINA points. If you are still alive,
you shrink back in horror. The smell of brimstc me is
unnustekable. It is a Forsaken One — the undead
soul of a wicked man who never received decent
burial and whose spirit has been rejected by the
Spirit world because itis so twisted with malice. You
must fight the Forsaken One in the pitch-blackness.
Subtract 2 from your $KILL, because all YOu can see
ol itis a ghostly, glowing, yellow outline.

FORSAKEN ONE

if vou win, turn to 345.

SKILL7 STAMINA

364

His eyes blaze and twin bolts of ruby hight lance at
you. You only just manage to avoid them. Now you
must fight Gargantus, the bronze giant. Every third
combatround, Gargantus fires ruby-red bolts at you
from his eyes. When this occurs, roll one extra die: if
itis even, you have dodged the bolts; ifitis odd, you
have been hit and must lose 4 STAMINA point.

GARGANTUS

If you win, the Dai-Oni mutters in anger and,
picking up a huge spiked iron club or tetsubo,
advances towards vou. Tum to 292.

SKIL1 5 STAMINA T2

} 365-366
365
The first of your assailants lies dead in a pool of
Blood, but your own blood also stains the green burf
and the peasants see thal vou ure not invulnerable.
Anotheraltacks you, a hulking brute ofa man witha
wayward black beard, who is whirling a firebrand
nom one of the charcoal ovens round and round his
ead.

FIRE-WIELDER

If the firewielder is still alive after five rounds of
combat, turn to 377. If you win, turn to 389.

SKILL 10 STAMINA 10)

366

The traitor, Lord Tsietsin, is dead. The honour of
the Shogun and of Hachinian has been upheld.
Gam 1 Honour point for ridding the land of the evil
Lord Tsietsin, and for killing him in the middle of
his own castle. ‘The Shogun is avenged, as are the
villagers,” says Moichi, who rests, idly watching as
you surrey the room.

Mostly it is full of ornate decoration, but the large
chest catches your interest. You quickly open it.
Inside is a bag of t00 Gold Pieces, an arrow and an
excellently crafted suit of Samurai armour, obvi-
ously too small for the overweight Tsictsin. You don
the armour and find it is far superior to your own,
especially because it is made out of some unusually
light metal Gain 1 LUCK point.

If you have the skill of Kyujutsu, you recognize the
366

arrow as being crafted by the legendary master of
Kyujutsu, ‘l'sunewara, who is reputed to have had
magical powers. It is fletched with white eagle
feathers. It should haye the power of dispelling evil

Spirits. Note if on your Advertture Sheet.

Sudden sounds of shouting and the dash of
weapons come from outside. Tsictsin’s men will be
here any minute. You both dart down the open
trap-door and close it behind you. Stairs lead down
into stygian blackness. You cautiously descend.
Tum to 378.

367-368

367
The trident catches a low branch and you are able to
catch it and use it to threaten the Kappa. They
Shrink back until their vellow eyes are mere plints in
the green depths. If vou decide tu leave now, turn to
335- If you are determined to speak to them, tum to
361.

368
The shattered remnants of the skeletons lic strewn
about you. The undead Samurai eluses in silence to
do battle for the last time.

UNDEAD SAMURAI

If you kill it, it falls to the ground and begins to
dissolve. The sky lightens and the redness fades
from the river. Among the remains of the undead
Samurai VOu notice an ivory horn of line workman-

SKILLY STAMINA
369

ship, inlaid with silver tracery depicting 2 sabre-
toothed tiger, You pick it up and walk on. Turn to
211,

369

Your perseverance is rewarded. An improbable
sight looms above you in the mist. The scarlet
Pagoda seems untouched by time. There are no
damp stains, no rotting, the paintis immaculate. As
you walk up to it, the red door swings open as if
inviting you inside. If you dare to cross the
threshold, turn to 299. lf you would rather return
and brave the giant's causeway, turn to 123-

370-372

370

You moan in pain, convincingly, and one of the
soldicrs leans over you- Suddenly you launch your
attack, but vou soon lind you are hard pressed as
you do not have your swords. The sound of battle
brings more guards and they dash into the cell. One
of them spears you in the chest and the blood
bubbles up into your lungs. You slump to the dirty
floor of the cell, to drown in your own blood,

372

The woods above Ginsei’s hovel are quiet and dry.
Your repose is undisturbed and you awaken much
refreshed. Restore up to 3 points of lost STAMINA.
As the swollen orange sun lifts the morning mists,
you must decide whether to continue due north
through the Longhills (turn to 237), or ta head
north-»est towards the villages and dales of Kan-
shuro {turn to 219).
372-374

t diet <a

”

372
‘The Phoenix does not try to peck or daw you;
instead it tries ta swoup close enough to immolate
itself and bathe you in ames. Each time it hits you,
roll one die and subtract 1 from the result. Thisis the
amount of STAMINA you have lost from the flames
(note that you may not lose any STAM1N4 if you're

lucky!),
PHOENIX SKILLG
If you win, turn to 36.

STAMINAT

373
The tident's tines bury themselves in your chest. If

you are wearing armour, him to 333. If not, turn to
39.

374
You stride up the path as if you owned the castle.

The two guards flanking the doorway regard rou
impassively. You tell them you are ronin, a Samurai
without a lord, and wish to join Isietsin. They nod
and one of them knocks on the great outer doors
and steps in. Shortly, aman ina kimono steps out. 7
am leratsu, Lord Tsietsin’s lieutenant. Please come
with me.’ He gestures at the door, and you step
through into a large courtyard.

374

Suddenly Teratsu shouts, ‘If you are ronin, then
why did you attack our men at the village? You have
walked into our hands, champion of the Shogun!’ A
horde of warriors bail out of the castle’s confines like
rats and swarm over you. There are tou many of
them and you are overwhelmed and captured. You
ere unceremoniously thrown into a small cell in the
palace dungeon. The gaoler, a large beefy man in a
stained leather jerkin, says jeeringly, “You sill be
taken before the Shogun Tsietsin on the morrow.’
Then he slams the massive, iron-studded, oaken
door of the ceil in vour face,

You are alone. They have taken your swords, andit
is this rather than the cruel gibes and the indignity
of capture that fills you with shame. Lose 1 Honour
point for their loss. There is nothing you can do bul
wait for the moming, so you lie down on the
wooden pallet in the corer and go to sleep. Turn to
316.

375-376

375
As you tum to leave, the cave entrance is blocked by

what appears to be an enormous moving boulder. It
is in fact a Groundhog, with a body like an enor
mous slab of rock and eight powerful, stumpy legs.
Its edges are lined with tails sporting balls of bone al
their ends, like living morning stars. In the middle
of its back is a huge slit-hke mouth. There is no-
where to hide in the grotto; you will have to fight.

GROUNDHOG SKILLS STAMINA 22

Tf you win, turn to 305.

376

You follow the track leading to the castle of Lord
Tsietsin. It winds through outlying farmlands,
where peasants till the fields. Two sentries in cere-
monial dress in the colours of Lord ‘I’sietsin stand
outside the oaken doors. As you approach, the
doors swing open and a man dressed in a kimono,
tivo swords thrust through its sash, steps out and
bows.

"Welcome, welcome, champion of the Shogun. lam
leratsu, Lord Isietsin’s lieutenant. Please step in_’

As you enter the courtyard the gates shut behind
you, and more than twenty armed Samurai are

>.“

377

waiting for you. Unfortunately,’ says leratsu, ‘Lord
Tsietsin has declared himself the new Shogun —
Kihei Hasekawaisa bumbling fool, as are those who
still follow him.” He signals and the soldiers charge
¥ou_ Struggle as you might, there are too many of
them and you are overwhelmed.

You are unceremoniously thrown intoa small cell in
the palace dungeon. The gaoler, a large beehy man
m a stamed leather jerkin, says jeeringly, You will
be taken before the Shogun Isietsin on the mor-
row Then he slams the massive, iron-stadded,
oaken door of the cellin your face,

You are alone. They have taken your swords, andil
is this rather than the cruel gibes and the indignity
of capture that fills vou with shame. Lose 1 Honour
point for their loss. There is nothing you can do but
wait for the morning, so you lie down on the
wooden pallet in the corner and go to sleep. Turn to
316-

377
The battle rages on as the other charcoal-burners

prepare to rain a hail of flaming torches at your
head. Test your Luck, if you are Lucky, turn to 7, If
you are Unlucky, tum to 23.
Vi

S
~
X
»

378

378
The stairs end ina blank wall. As you begin to push,
it slides open. Simultaneously there is a clanging
sound. Stepping through the opening, you find
yourself im a damp and odorous tunnel. On the left
an iron grille has slammed down, cutting you off
from the stairs that climb upward beyond it. You
have no choice but to follow the tunnel towards a
miliky-white luminescence at its end. As you and
Moichi pace forward, a fetid stench rises in your
nostrils.

The smell grow's stronger. You come outinto alarge
cavern, suffused with a sickly pale light, but the
source of the light is for the moment indiscemible.
Bones, old clothes and rusted weapons are strewn
about. Then you spot it. A huge glowing shape
comes towards you. An enormous gaping maw,
lined with teeth rises up to devour you. Twa eyes,
massive discs of inscrutable blackness, stare at you,
alive with ancient evil. The body, supported by
hundreds of black scuttling legs, is bony and seg-
mented. Itis a dirty white colour and it is this that
gives off the pale vlow, It is a Mukade, some sort of
gigantic, forty-foot centipede-

Moichi screams in fear and you step back in asto-
nishment. It snaps its head forward, striking like a
serpent, and bites off Moichi's arm and most of his
shoulder in an instant. He moans faintly and tup-
ples to the floor.

The sight of this fills you with angerand sorrow, but
ii

oe '

s-

ip a xd * Wes HE ==
jae 5 eee <a

—

= SRST:

379-380

then il ripples towards you, intent on making you
its next meal. If vou have the skill of Kyujutsu, and
sill have your bow and arrow, you may fire two
arrows before it is upon you. (You will nol be able to
reclaim the arrows if you win the fight} In any case,
you must fight it.

MUKADE SKILL7
If you win, turn to 384.

STAMINA 2

379

As you warily tread the path that leads to the slatue
of the fabled silver Samurai, the courtly magician
appears atits side and sprinkles a fine blue dust over
it. “Aha, my sporting fellow, our second meeting,’

he says, and he disappears in another pull of
smoke. The Samurai remains chrome silver all Over,

but now he moves and talks. Ichallenge you, on the
honour of your lord, to single combat.’ Will you
accept (turn to 341) or decline (turn to 321)?

380
You groan in pain. The gavler says, ’He must have
been wounded yesterday.’ Two of the guards
roughly lift you to your feet. You slump in their
arms as if half-dead and they help you out of the
cell. A darkened, cell-lined corridor streiches away
to left and right. Suddenly you leap into action and
grab the nearest guard’s ‘sword before he can act.
Will vou rum left (turn to 392) or rissht (turn to 342)?
341-382

382

Soon you are in alow range of hills. You make fast
progress until you are halted by a sheer cliff that
stretches as faras the eve can see. You realize witha
shock that you have mistaken your way. You must
retrace your steps to the upper Hiang-Kiang River
and travel on that way. After another two days you
have found your way again and are ready to tum
north once more. One of the tributaries of the
Tliang-Kiang River lies athwart your path. The air is
alive with the twittering of song-thrushes as you
walk down a rolling green hillside to the nver. There
is a road with white-topped milestones at intervals
that leads to the river and you decide to follow it
Turn to 227.

382

The Ki-Rin flies into the air, 1ts hoofs wreathed in
flame, and arrows towards Gargantus. Gargantus
looks atitand twin lancing bolts of ruby light hurtle
from ils eves and hit the Ki-Rin with explosive force,
killing it instantly. If you are now withoutallies, you
will have to fight Gargantus alone. Turn to 364. If
you have Eleanor the Enchantress as your ally, turn
to 22, If you have the Golden Company as your
allies, turn to. 198.

‘cme

383-384

383

inside the hovel it is surprisingly clean, thouyh
spartan. Two silk screens hang on the svall, one of
Lord Toda and another showing a small village and
a grand house which probably once belonged to
Ginsei when he was Toda’s captain: it shows two
young children strongly resembling Cinsei playi
below the veranda. Running vouneree ie the
Screen to test the quality of the silk you are surprised
fo lind a ridge in the wooden wall behind it. It
proves to be a secret cupboard inside which isa
Black chest inlaid with letters of red wald which read
‘Beware the breath of the dragon.’ Will you open the
chest (tum to 359} or just take the silk screens and
leave (turn to 343)?

384

You thrust your sword deep into one of its black
eyes and il rears back, uttering a shrill burbling
shriek. lt threshes wildly in its death-throes and you
have to leap back out of the way. Presently it sub
sides and falls dead. Quickly you mush over to
Moichi. He is still alive — but only just. Blood is
oozing like the tide from the gaping wound, his face
5 pale and his eyes are dimming. ‘At least | died
with honour, my liege, and in a noble cause,’ With
that his spirit leaves him. You pause silently in
mourning fora while, honouring his memory, Bul
Fou know you must continue with your mission.

A search of the cavern reveals an exit at one end,
and a heaped pile of ‘treasure’ — mostly bones and
385-387

old useless weapons. However, you do find 15 Gold
Pieces, a shiny silver helmet of ornate workman-
ship, a bottle of greenish-black ichar-like liquid and
@ magnificently crafted iron war-fan, used in battles
i> signal troops, which is inlaid with a pattern of
ivory that makes you feel nauseous to look at. Will
You:

Pick up the war-fan and open it? Turn to 182
Drink some of the liquid? Turn to 196
Put on the helmet? Turn to 210
Leave them all and go through
the exit? Turn to 222
385

The trembling continues until the rock itself seems
to curl up at the edges all around you. Too late you
realize it is a Groundhog, a large monster that
resembles the rock on which it lies. If you have the
skill of Karumijutsu, and wish to use il, turn to 197.
If not, turn to 337.

386
You come out of the valley and are faced by a large,
forbidding forest, stretching away for miles to either
side. The road disappears into its depths like a stone
into water. You recognize it as the Forest of Sha-
dow's, and you must go through it. Tur to 122,

387

Seon you come to a path that leads down to the
Water's edge, where a crescent of stepping-stanes
388

great columns of basalt, a veritable giant's cause-
way, slrelches out into the mist. With difficulty you
leap from one pillar to another. Turn to 113.

388

You stealthily circle the castle, without bemg seen-
Then vou dart forward to beneath ils walls, which
you find are made of fine, well-dressed, stone
blocks, and you cannot findany lootholds tor climb-
ing. However, if you have the skill of Karumyutsu,
you may be able to reach the battlements. If you
wish to try this, turn to 284. If not, you can approach
the gate and try to bluff your way in (tum to 374).
abandon the attempt to slay Tsietsin and press on
{turn to 338), or svail near the entrance and hope
some Opportunity to get in arises (turn to 398).

389-390
389

Your prowess with the katana has instilled terror in
the hearts of the charcoal-bumers, The fire-
wielder’s body lies horribly contorted before vou
and the others scatter and flee into the woods. You
have defended the honaur of your lord and you may
add f to your own Honour score before continuing
on your way. Lurn to 195-

390

You dash back, wrench the door open and dive
through. The Phoenix does not attempt to prevent
you. You are back m the Hub, surrounded by stars
and the eight doors. Return to 8 and chaose again,
but you cannot choose an option you have chosen
once already.
391-392

391

The magnificent beast shakes the very earth as it
falls. Part of its ebony antlers was shorn off by your
blade. The Black Elk weighs several tons and itis far
too large to skin quickly, but you may cul some meat
from the still warm carcass. Add 2 to your Pro-
yisions, The broken piece of antler is adorned by a
Strange whorled pattern, almost like a serpent of
white bone, You decide to keep the antler as a
talisman. Note it on your Adventure Sheet and tum to
381.

392
You spring away before the guards have reacted,
such is their surprise. You have one sword, at least.
Until you get another you cannot use the skill of
Ni-to-Kenjutsu, nor can you use Kyujutsu until you
obtain a bow and arrows, if you chose either of these
skills during your training.

The corridor ends in a stairwell, going both up and
down. The puards are catching up. Will you go up
(hurn to 18) or down (turn to 4)?

393-394

393
The Kappa, for thatis whatthe scaly green monsters

are, glare balefully at you, their yellow eyes just
below the surface. Legends tell that they are wily
and capable of speaking in the human tongue. Will
you leave immediately, while it is possible to do se
(Sarn to 335), or try to talk to them (turn to 325)?

394

The Ki-Rin flies up and circles the Dai-Oni. ‘The
Dai-Oni swings the club at it, but the Ki-Rin dudges
aside. Then the Ki-Rin utters a single word and the
Dai-Oni screams in pain. “You have stripped me of
My magic, cursed beast! he screams. The Ki-Rin
flies up, saying, ‘Thatis all I can do, mortal: the rest
is in your hands, Good luck.’ Then it fades from
view. The Dai-Oni advances, club in hand, but this
ime you can see fearin its eyes. You must fightit.

DAI-ONT
If you win, turn to 54.

SKILL10 STAMINA 10

395-396

395
You clamber on to a mossy mound near the far bank

of the river, as several scaly green monsters rise
dripping from the depths and converge upon you. If
you have the skill of Karumijutsu and wish to try to
leap over their heads to safety, tum to 35. If you
decide to stand your ground and fight it out, turn to
13. If, instead, you surrender, turn to 3-

A troop of fifteen riders appears on the road ahead
of you. They are wearing bluc and green lacquered
battle armour and you recognize the symbo! embl-
zoned on a banner one of them bears: they are
Samurai of Lord Tsietsin. The leading Samurai hails
you, saying, ‘Welcome to the domain of Lord Tsiet-
sin. You are the Shogun’s champion, are you not?’
You nod as they approach, smiling.

Suddenly one of them shouts, “And Lord Tsietsin
has declared himself the new Shogun!’ With that
they charge you, taking you by surprise. You strug-
gle mightily, slaying three of them and wounding
several more, bul there are too many and soon you
are securely bound and strapped oyer a horse’s
back. ‘Lord Tsietsin will be pleased with this little
catch,’ one of them quips.

They take you fo the castle you passed on the road-
You are led into the courtyard, where many of Lord
Tsictsin’s Samurai retainers gather around to laugh
and mock you. You are unceremoniously thrown
inio 2 small cell in the palace dungeon. The gaoler, a

396

large beefy man in a stained leather jerkin, says
jeeringly, “You will be taken before the Shogun
Tsietsin on the morrow.’ Then he slams the mass-
ive, iron-studded, oaken door of the cell in your
face.

You are alone. Thev have taken your swords, and it
is this rather than the cruel gibes and the indignity
of capture that fills you with shame. Lose 1 Honour
pomt for their loss. There is nothing you can do but
wait for the morming, so you lie dawn on the
wooden pallet in the corner and go to sleep. Turn to
316.

397-398

397
Sunrise the next day sees you descending from the

dales mto the last of the lands held securely by the
Shogun. Gatint trees litter a brown plain and tear
the mist. You restat the edge of these drear marcher
lands before going on_ Restore up lo 4lostsTAMINA
points. On the following day vou stride out through
the mist — which muffles the sound of heavy hoof-
beats until they are almost upon you. A great black
beast looms over you in the mist, It is the Black Elk of
the Marcher Lands, which is supposed ta have
vanished seventy years ago or more. Unluckily for
you if seems to have returned. Its enormous antlers
are fifteen feet of polished ebony and its eyes are
jewels of flame. You must fight.

BLACK ELK SKILL 4 STAMINA 15

If you win, turn to 391.

398

You wait at some distance from the castle gales,
trying to think of some way to get in without being
detected. Presently you notice a cart trundling to-
wards you, laden with hay, presumably making a
delivery to the castle. You dart ints the cover of
some nearby undergrowth and it passes slowly by-
There is plenty of hay for you to hide yourself in,
Will vou creep up behind the cart and hide in the
hay (turn to 6), abandon this and press on with your
original mission (turn to 338), or iry to bluff your
way in through the gates (turn to 374)?
399-400

399
Ginset lies dead at your feet, his lacquered blue
armour rent and stained purple. Ile will never
dishonour the name of the Shogun again. Smoke
still rises from the hovel in which he had been
hiding out. Will you investigate the hut {turn to
393), or find a dry spot to sleep in the wonds (turn to

371)?

400

The black robes that encased the Master of Shadows
fall to the flour in a heap. lkiru is no more. [he walls
of his dark hall begin ta shudder and his throne to
crumble. The pit falls in on itself. Great cracks
appear in the floor, Desperately you search for an
entrance, but then part of a wall falls away and clean
sunlight passes in. Wincing from the glare, you run
out to find yourself in the Shios'ii Mountains. be
hind you the great black palace of strange, alien
design is crumbling away, ihe palace of Lkiru.

400

You find yourself in the midst of a camp of Shikame,
but they are ignoring you. Some of them are staring
in horrified fear at the palace, others are running
hither and thither in panic. You take this opportun-
ity to leave quickly and you escape unmolested.

A few days later, you are safely back in Konichi, the
capital. where the Shogun halds a state banquet in
your honour. With the return of Singin Death, his
tule is assured and the Lords of Hachiman unite
under his banner, to repel the barbarian invaders,
With Ikiru slain, his army of Shikome disperse and
the threat is lifted. An age of peace and prosperity
hes ahead of youand the people of Hachiman.
