FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS

Over 10 million copies sold worldwide!

ee Ff
‘ i
Qu 4
= a ’
s
.

= nN

LIVINGSTONE |
TRIAL OF

CHAMPIONS

PUFEIN BOOKS

TRIAL OF CHAMPIONS

4 set When rour small best wat ramined aod crushed by an ominous-
" LIVInGS tOMe- lovking galley, you had aw choice but te clin aboard, Faced with 4
TRIAL OF ew of hantened cutthruats and their ayil, scarred captain, it would
(CHAMPIONS Mave Geen useiens bo struggie
: 7

Since that Cursed day. you have been chaired to a bench just anther
Seb ey-slave — rowing te the pout of collapse, towards an unkoown
destinaSon Then, at last, yor reach lend, and are deagped frou the
stip owt unte the glaring sunlight. You have landed on Blood Island,
oat ane ceow the urs ifiing, shove of Loed Carrmuss, evil brother of Sarur
Sekumyt. crea ot Dewtierep Dungeon! The warped and twisted
mene of Gacon Sukhumvit has covpletely secesiigned the dradly labyr-
hv of Fang New traps ated terrors, mazes and monsters, await pou a:
every cure. Pt even betore pou can enter the dungeon, vou must
endure your evil new master shloodihirsty ghadintorial games. Can you
tarvive ctus Trl of Champions and fer yourself from clevery?

Tres Gite. « pencil and an eraser are al} YOU reed to embark on this
*riling advestue, which is Complete with its elaborate com ha ey sterr
and 2 sow timet cy recond your gins and Ineses.

Many dangers Se abead and your success is by no means certain. k's up
w% YOU tn dente which wate to follow, which danwer: to risk and
winch adVereries to fight!

ao Loeonestene «as born in Cheshire om 1949. He ¢ the cu-fuunder
(with Stowe facksont of the hogely saccessful Garnes Warkshap chain,
wtech speciaiizes in fantasy games and wac games of all kinds

Fizhring Turtisy Gamebaats

|. THE WARLOCK CE STRETCH!"
PALMINTAIN

THE CITADEL CE CIIALS
ATU Sa eat

4 STARSHIP TRAVELLER

5 OU Or ats

n DEATHIRAP OLINGCEOS.

7 HL ANIIO® THE LIZARD XING
&. SOORPION Seamer

Y VAVPRENS PATHE SND’ WITS
we. HOUSE OF HELL
“)CTALICMAR CIP DEATH

IL SPACE ASEASHN
TR EREIWIAY PKSHTER

14. TEMPLE CF TERROR
18 UU RINGS De KETRSR

In SEAS OF SLOCD
7 AMMUIRIMONE WITHE DAR
18 REBE PLANET

19 DEMONS Ob THE DEEP
23). NORD OF THE SAM RA?

7° TRIAL Ob C HAMIINS

—

Surve lackwans SURCERY!
LTS SIAMUIART HLS
= SHARE - CITYPORT OF TRAPS

> ROOT COMMANIES

7 MASKS CF MASSA

BS CRECUSE i tare

7h, BKINEATH NIGHTMARE CAS7
SS Gort orsi i 4 Eee
7 4TaAk STRIDER

22. FHANTOM-(i Pak

Ma MILRUGST ROCLS

22. CHARAS OF MALE

MM. 67 TLEBLADE WASSIE
32 SLAVES OF Tm Asrst
Ky LORD

x STEALS UF A>

7 UASCERS OF DAFENSS
36. ARMIES Lei

37. OKTAL CE SSL

= VAULT Ce Tm i yvaoGe
©. 465 OF FS

45. DEAD CENKE

11. MAS RN OF CHACE

e

-.

4 SACK VEIN Py

THE KP OF TSS US

2. THE SEVEN SEFTENT:
4 THE CROOK IW RINSE

FIGI STING PANTASY — Ter Intindoctocy RaleTosying Gere
THE RIDDLING REAVER - Tour tha ing, adventices
TEE TROLLTOOTH WARS - A Fighting Cantary Novel

The Advanced Fighting Fantasy System

UL OF THE CIT: Tightny Fenta-y Mansters

TITAN: The Feyjitizg; Fantosy World

DL NGHONDER - Ar. Botrocdsaztian ti: De World of Role-Tiey-me Gomes

Ian Livingstone’s

RIAL 0

Ninstnaded by Brion Maia

PUFTIN BOOKS
CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION
9

ADVENTURE SHEET
16

BACKGROUND
38

TRIAL OF CHAMPIONS:
3
INTRODUCTION

Before embarking on youradventure, you nuust first
determine your own strengths and weaknesses.
Use dice to determine your initial scores. On pages
26-17 there is an Adventure Sheet which you may use
te record the details of an adventure. On it you will
find boxes for recording your SKILL, STAMINA and
LUCK Scores.

You are advised to either record your scores on the
Adventure Skeet in pencil, or make photocopies. of
the sheet to use in future adventures.

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter this
total in the sxrix box on the Adventure Sneet.

Roll both dice. Add 12 to the number rolled and
enter this totalin the sTAMINA Dox.

There is also a LucK box. Roll one die, add 6 to this
number and enter this total in the tuck box.

For reasons that will be explained below, $kr11.,
STAMINA and LUCK scores change constantly dur-
ingan adventure. You must keep an accurate record
of these scores and for this reason you are advised
either to write small in the boxes or to keep an eraser
handy. But never rub out your /nrtial scores,

9
Although you may be awarded additional sx!t1,

STAMINA and LUCK points, these totals may never
exceed yaur Initial scores, except on Very TaTe octa-

sions, when you will be instructed on a particular
page.

Your SKILL score reflects your swordsmanship and
general fighting expertise; the higher the better
Your STAMINA Score reflects your general constitu-
tion, your will to survive, your determination and
overall fitness; the higher your sTAMINA Score, the
longer you wall be able to survive. Your LUCK score
indicates how naturally lucky a person you are.

Luck — and magic — are facts of life in the fantasy
kingdom you are about to explore.

Battles

You will often come across pages in the book which
instruct you to fight a creature of some sort. An
option to flee may be given, but if not — or if you
choose to attack the creature anyway — you must
resolve the battle as described below.

First record the creature’s 5x111. and STAMINA
scores in the first vacant Monster Encounter Box on
your Adzeniure Sheet. The scores for each creature
are given in the book each time you havean encoun
ter.

The sequence of combat is then:

1. Roll both dice once for the creature. Add its
SKILL svore. This total is the creature’s Attack
Strength,

10

2. Roll both dice once for yourself. Add the number
rolled to your current Ski1.t. score. This total is
your Attack Strength.

3. Lf your Attack Strength is higher than that of the
creature, you have wounded it. Proceed to step
4. lf the creature‘’s Attack Strength is hisher than
yours, it has wounded you. Proceed to step 5. If
both Attack Strength totals are the same, you
have avoided cach other's blows — start the next
Attack Round from step 1 above.

+. You have wounded the creature, so subtract 2
points from its STAMINA score. You may use
your LUCK here to do additional damage (see
O¥er).

3- The creature has wounded you, so subtract 2
points from your own STAMINA score. Again
yOu may use LUCK at this stage (see over).

6. Make the appropriate adjustments to either
the creature’s or your OWN STAMINA scores
{and your LUCK score if you used LUCK ~ see
over).

7. Begin the next Attack Round by returning to
your current SKILL score and repeating steps
t—6. This sequence continues until the sTAMINA
score of either you or the creature you are
fighting has been reduced to zero (death).

Fighting More Than One Creature

if you come across more than one creature in a
particular encounter, the instructions on that page
will tell you how to handle the battle. Sometimes

i
you will treat them asa single monster; sometimes
you will fight each one in tum.

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either m
battles or when you come across situationsin which
you could either be lucky or unlucky (details of
these are given on the pages themselves), you may
call on your luck to make the outcome more fayour-
able. But beware! Using luck is a risky business and
if you are unlucky, the results could be disastrous.

The procedure for using your luck is as follows: roll
two dice. If the number rolled is cqual to or less than
your current 1.uck SCORE, you have been lucky and
the result will go in your favour. If the number
rolled is higher than your current LUCK Score, you
have been unlucky and you will be penalized.

Shis procedure is known as Testing your Luck. Fach
time vou Tes! your Luck, you must subtract 2 point
from your current LUCK score. Thus you will soon
realize that the more you rely on yourluck, the more
risky this will become,

Using Luck in Battles

On certain pages of the book you will be told to Test
your Luck and will be told the consequences of your
being jucky or unlucky. However, in battles, you
always have the option of using your luck either to
inflict a more serious wound on a creature you have

12

just wounded, or to minimize the effects ofa wound
the creature has just inflicted on you.

Ifyou havejust wounded the creature, you may Jest
your Luck as described above. [f you are lucky, you
have inflicted a severe wound and may subtract an
extra 2 points from the creature’s STAMINA score.
However, ifyouare unlucky, the wound wasa mere
graze and you must restore 1 point to the creature’s
STAMINA (i.e. instead of scoring the normal 2
points of damage, you have now scored only 1).

lf the creature has just wounded rou, you may Jes!
your Luck to try to minimize the wound. If you are
lucky, you have managed to avoid the full damage
of the blow. Restore 1 point of STAMINA (i.e. in-
Stead of doing 2 points of damage it has done only
1). If you are unlucky, you have taken a more
serious blow. Subtract 1 extra STAMINA point.

Remember that you must subtract point from your
own LUCK score each time vou Test your Luck.

43
Restoring Skill, Stamina and Luck

Skill

Your $k1L- score will not change much during your
adventure. Occasionally, a page may give instruc
tions ta increase or decrease your SKILL Score. A
Magic Weapon may increase your sxin., but re
member that only one weapon cin be used ata time!
You cannot claim 2 5x11.1 bonuses for carrying bwo
Mayic Swords. Your SKILL score can never exceed
ils Jniliel value unless specifically mstructed-

Stamina

Your STAMINA score will change a lot during your
adventure as yuu fight monsters and undertake
arduous tasks. As you near your goal, your STAM-
INA level may be dangerously low and battles may
be particularly risky, so be careful!

Unlike other Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks, vou do
not start your adventure with Provisions. However,
during the course of the adventure, there will be
opportunities for you to regain STAMINA points in
Various ways.

14

Remember also that your STAMINA score may
never exceed its Imifial value unless specifically
instructed on.a page.

Luck

Additions to your LUCK score are awarded through
the adventure when you have been particularly
lucky. Details are given on the pages of the book.
Remember that, as with skint and STAMINA, your
LUCK score may never exceed its [milial value unless
specifically instructed on a page.
MONSTER ENCOUNTER BOXES

NOTES AND ITEMS:

BACKGROUND

It is another fiercely hot day, and the temperature in
the sticky gloom below decks is unbearable. The air
is thick with the acrid smell of sweating bodies.
Nobody is allowed to speak, and the only noise ta be
heard above the monotonous creaking of the ship is
the regular sharp crack of a whip and the agonized
cry which follows il, ‘Row harder, you dogs! shouts

the one-eyed overseer, as he cracks the whip once
again. “Enjoy this pleasant voyage while you can,
because you'll wish you were back on hoard after a
day or two svhere you are going! Chained to a
bench and straining hard at the long oar which you
pull with two other galley-slaves, your mind drifts
back to that unfortunate day one week ago when
yau were captured.

You had lefi Port Blacksand in a small boat to sail
south down the coast to Oyster Bay. As ill luck
would have it, a galley appeared on the horizon

13

— — ae

heading in your direction. It drew steadily closer
and it was not long before your boat was crushed
underits bows and you were forced to dive into the
sea. There was nothing you could do except climb
up 2 rope that was thrown down fo you, as your
boat had become no more than a few pieces of
broken wood floating aimlessly on the sea. It was
useless to struggle as a crew of twenty hardened
cut-throats surrounded you.

A gruff voice from behind them ordered them to
part, and an ugly, scarred man appeared, grinning
and spitting juice from chewing-tobacco on to the
deck. His teeth were chipped aa blackened, and a
foul stench wafted in the breeze from his unwashed
clothes. ‘Captain Bartella always delivers the goods.
YouTl make up for the one who died from the
flogging yesterday. Saves me having to kidnap a
landlubber. Must be my lucky day, but I wouldn't
say it was yours.” The captain let outa laugh which
was like a long, wheezing exhalation, and then
barked out an order to his mate: ‘Take the rat below
to meet the rest of the vermin.’

Since that cursed day, you have been chained to
your oar, rowing to the point of collapse towards an
unknown destination. Suddenly you heara shout of
‘Land ahoy!”, and begin to wonder what evil awaits
you. An hour later, you feel the ship bump against a
jetty and there is much shouting until the ship is
finally moored. You are dragged from the.ship with
the other slaves, and seein the glaring sunlight thal
you are on a small island. A sombre-looking castle

aD
|

sits on top of the island, and next to it there is a
semi-ruined amphitheatre, A man wearing black
chainmail armour hands Capiain Bartella a bag of
coins. Satisfied with his payment, the wheezing
captain orders his men back to the ship and you
watch them set sail. The man in black armour steps
forward, saying, “You are now the property of Lord
Carnuss. It is your honour to die for his pleasure in
the Arena of Death here on Blood Island- Only one
of you will survive, and he or she will represent
Lord Carnuss in Fang for the next Thal of Cham-
pions. Baron Sukumyit has modified his deadly
labyrinth and is now offering 20,000 Gold Pieces to
anvbody who gets through it. Of course, Lord Car-
nuss will keep the prize ii you get through, bul you
will be spared your life, Baron Sukumvit's tepute-
tion suffered greatly lasi year when somebody suc-
ceeded in getting through the labyrinth, but he now
boasts that nobody can survive his new dungeon.
Lord Carnuss would like one of you to make
Sukumvil eat his words. You must understand that
he hates his brother's fame. Now follow me’

pe

You are led up the hill to the castle, where you are
locked in a cell in the depths of the lower chambers.
Sharing the dark cell with you are four others: «

29

stout dwarf, a man-orc, a sinewy casterner and a
bald, muscle-bound man. The mood is grim and few
words are spoken as each of you ponders the im-
pending combat. Forty-hvo slaves arrived by ship
and only one will survive. The dubious reward is
entry toa deadly dungeon.

NOW TURN OVER

21
1-3

1

At dawn the following day, you are woken by the
sound of heavy footsteps approaching down the
corridor. A key turns in the lock of the cell door and
hee guards wearing black chainmail enter, carrying
travs of food. ‘Eat well,” says one of them, ‘as you
will need all your strength to survive the day. By the
end of it, you may all be dead.’ The guard then turns
to you and offers you some bread and a bow! of
soup. If you wish to take the food, turn to 49. Ifyou
would rather try to overcome the guard and make
an escape, turn to 292.

“7

You step over the huve body af the Giant Centipede
and peer into the cave entrance. ‘lhe walls are wet
and slimy, and you cannot see very farinte the cave.
if vou wish to enter, turn to 89. [f you would rather
keep walking along the tunnel, turn to 161.

3
Sitting cross-legged in the middle of the room is a
fat, bald man, eastern in appearance. He sits
motionless and holds a bamboo pole between his
outstretched hands. Half a dozen coloured wooden
blocks are hovering in a circle in mid-air above him,
The man’s eyes are grey and blank, and he is
obviously blind. The room is sparsely furnished
with a slatted wooden bed, a cupboard and a large
wooden chest, which has pnde of placein the centre
of the floor. “Welcome, contestant number two, |
have been waiting for you. lam Noy, a Trialmaster,
4-6

and a servant of Baron Sukumvit. My duty is to test
you in three ways before allowing you to proceed.
Are you ready?" If you wish to obey the Tralmaster,
turn lo 369. Lf you would rather attack him with your
sword, turn lo 200.

4

‘The liquid in the jug is a strange magical concoction
which changes its properfes constantly. Jest your
Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 135. If you are
Unlucky, turn (o 273-

5
Ahead you see the tunnel bend sharply to the nght.
But you do not see a crossbow mounted on the dark
wall, pointing straight at you. Roll one die- If you
rol] 14, turn to 128. If you roll 5 or 6, turn to 313.

6
The chaos champion runs al you, unafraid of the
dagger in your hand. You take aim quickly and
throw it as hard as you can. Yes! your Luck. fyou are
Lucky, turn to 383. If you are Unlucky, tum to 121.

7-8

You soon arrive at another door in the tunnel wall.
The handle turns, but wooden boards have been
nailed across the door frame. If you wish to lever the
boards off with your sword, turn to 336. If vou
would rather press on along the tunnel, turn to 45,

8

As you lunge again, the elf falls siicnt, the life
squeezed out of his body, The tongue releases him
and retracts down the cavernous throat. You drag
the elf out of the mouth, although there is nothing
you can do for him now. You are beginning to
wonder what to do next when suddenly the elf's
eyes open. With his dying breath he whispers,

Thank you for trying tosave me. You didn’t have to
doit, because we both know thatonly one person can
walk out ofhere alive. Itwon'tbe menow. Take what
Ihave and walk into the mouth. If you can overcome
that dreadful thing that surprised me, I think it's the
night way to go.” His eyes close again and he exhales
tor the last time. In a bag tied to his waist you find a
small jar of grey paste which has a very sharp aroma.
Knowing the ways of elves, you are certain that the
paste will have healing properties, so you decide to
dab the contents of the jar on to your wounds. The
paste has the desired effect. Add 6STAMINA points.
You also find in the bag a small boitle of blue dye
which you place inside your pouch. You think
about what the elf said If you wish to walk inside
the mouth, turn to 306. If you would rather leave the
room and continue along the corridor, turn to 138.
9-10

9

You step slowly to your right, and almost im-
mediately hear an agonized cry followed by the dull
thud of a body falling to the ground to your left. You
walk on without making a sound, A chill runsdown
your spine when your outstretched shield arm
cames into contact with something, but itis only the
arena wall, You turn around and walk towards the
centre of the arena. Test your Lick. If you are Lucky,
turn to 166. If you are Unlucky, turn to 73-

10

You hack at the suit of armour, but your blows have
no effect. As you tire in combat, you are caught
momentarily off guard, and the mace thumps mto
your side. Louse 2 STAMINA points, You realize that
itis useless to continue fighting the suit of armour,
so you run far the door in the wall opposite: turn to
281.

11-12

Bie

The old wizard looks at you quizzically and says,
“Now tell me exactly how many gold rings you
have.” If you have one or three rings, turn to 278. If
you have five or seven, turn to 92. lf you have nine
or eleven, turn to 345-

12
Assoonas you press the button, a large stone slabin
the left-hand wall of the tunnel pivots open. You
step through the gap and find yourself in another
tunnch You soon come to a door in the right-hand
wall which has an old broom nailed toit. [fyou wish
fo open the door, turn to 246. [f you would rather
cart¥ on down the tunnel, turn to 346,

. y? os “Ht: < ¢

POE FET ee
wt
SEN
|

13-14

13

You pull the door open and walk into a small room
which has not been entered for years. A thick layer
of dust covers everything and cobwvebs hang down
hke dirty old curtains. Twoskeletons, mouths hang-
ing open, he halfsubmerged in the dust, propped
up against the far wall. One of the skeletons is
pointing at the other. Suddenly the door slams shut
behind vou and the pointing skeleton starts to
speak: ‘Brothers and sisters have | none, but thal
man’s father is my father’s son. Who is he?" Will
you:

Run for the door? Turn to 207
Reply he is his grandfather? Tur to 84
Reply heis his father? Turn to 302
Reply he is his son? Tum ta 372

14
You quickly grab a short spear and climb back
through the hole to the tunnel before any more of

the colony come to investigate. Turn to 155.
15-16

15

With great courage and determinafion, your mind
overcomes the illusion of pain. You drop exhausted
to the floor when the pain eventually subsides from
your body, But you arc now mentally fatigued and
drained of energy. Lose 3 STAMINA points. You sit
up and throw off the accursed gauntlet. The Liche
Queen remains silent as she pulls a gold ning from
her finger and throws it in front of you. You do not
wait to question her motives. Grabbing the ring,
you Tun out of the room into the tunnel. Ifyou wish
to go right, turn to 285, If you wish to go Ieft past the
T-junction, turn to 227.

16

The heat from the flames is intense, but the fire-
proof cloak protects you completely. Once through
the archway, you find yourself in a cross-passage-
Looking to the right, you see nothing of interest
down the long tunnel, but to your left vou see
something hanging down from the ceiling. You
decide to investigate: turn to 88.

17-18

17
The tactics work. Your spiked ball thumps into your
opponent's lez and knocks him off his feet. He
remains on the ground, groaning, 50 you move
away before somebody else hears where you are, As
Quietly as possible, you move to the left. Turn to
320.

15

You soon sec shy the rats were inside the room in
which vou find yourself. It is a storeroom, piled
high with barrels, sacks and crates. Jars and bottles
are jammed along the shelves which line the walls
from floor to ceiling. However, much of the food
that you find is either old and stale or rotten, and the
rats have eaten most of what is left. After emptying
out nearly all the containers, the only items vou find
that appear vaguely edible are a loaf and soime
salted beef. Will you:

Eat the loaf? Tum to57
Eat the salted beef? Turn to184
Eat nothing and walk back up the

stairs? Turn to 305

19-21

19
The Strider has no possessions, apart from a bone
medallion hanging around its neck. If you wish to
put the medallion around your own neck, tum to

7o. If you would rather climb back up the rope, tum —

lo 328.

20
Suddenly you see movement ahead in the tunnel. A
small humanoid looks back and then runs away
from you. Intrigued by the being, you decide to run
after him: turn to 258.

‘The tunnel rises quite steeply and grows rapidly
colder. The steep floorsoun gives way to stone steps
which makes progress a little less tiring. But half-
way up the steps, you notice that there are three ina
row which are painted red. If you wish to carry on
walking up every step, turn to 372. If you would
rather leap over the three red steps, turn to 50.

22

22

You are in the middle of the procession of forty-hvo
slaves, which wends its way along various corr-
dors, until you reach the amphitheatre. The sun is
already beating down, making the sand in the arena
uncomfortably hot to your bare feet. Seated high in
the stands is a dark, hooded figure surrounded by
guards. You watch him rise to his feet and lift his
arins mto the air, commanding silence. “You know
why you are here,’ Lord Carnuss begins. Tt is my
wish to be represented in the Trial of Champions.
Some of you will die today, some tomorrow and
more the following day, until only one of you is lett.
Those about to die, I salute you.’ Lord Carnuss sits
down again end nods his head to signal the start of
the proceedings. The slaves are split into seven
groups of six, and you find yourself in a group
accompanied by an elf, two northmen, a dwarf and
an ogre. Your group is chosen first and you are told
that the first event is a race to test strength and
stamina. A crude sack, containing several heavy
rocks, is strapped to your backs. You watch as
burning coals are broughtinto the arena and poured
over 4 section of the makeshift racetrack. The six of
you are then lined upat the start, each carrying your
curden, and are told to race round the track until
one of you is lapped or collapses, Then you are off,
and you all jostle for position on the way to jumping
the first pile of burning coals. If you wish to set the
pace, turn to 310. If you would rather stay at the
Dack, turn to 107-
23-24

23

The tunnel leads straight on for about 2 hundred
metres before you encounter anything unusual. In
the Ieft-hand wall there is a stone archway inset
with drazon-heads made of iron. Flames shoot oul
of their mouths, making a curtain of fire across the
archway. Further on up the tunnel you see somic-
thing hangin g down from the ceiling. IFyou wish t
run through the flaming archway, turn 10 101- lf you
would rather investigate what is hanging down
from the ceiling, turn to 88-

4 - r
None of the other contestants enters the witch's

room after you. When the witch rematerializes In
her roam, she cackles with laughter at the sight of
your face on the lid of the box. There will be no more
visitors for at least another wear, and you will be —
trapped for ever in the void.

a

25

The Trnalmaster remains silent for 2 moment and
then says slowly, ‘You have passed the second test,
Now comes the final part: combat with me! We will
aght with bamboo poles ~ not to the death, but as a
simulation of a sword-fight. Any strike to the head
or chest will be considered a death blow. For your
information, my blindness is nu handicap, as my
vars will tell me where you are. Now fetch your pole
from the cupboard, for fam ready." As you take the
pole, the Trialmaster stands up and the wooden
blocks fall to the ground. Treading silently on bare
feet, he moves towards you, his head turned ta one
side to aid his hearing. lf you wish to lunge at him
with your pole and catch him off-balance with a
quick strike, turn to 134. Hf you would rather ready
yourself to counter a blow, turn to 204.

26-28

26

As soon as you touch the door-handle you hear loud
berking and growling. You push the door open and
s€¢ a vicious-looking two-headed black dog strain-
ing at a leash fastened to a hook in the far wall of a
small room. Its eyes are red, and saliva drips con-
tinuously from its fanged mouths. The room is ina
terrible mess, with everything broken or chewed by
the dog. However, on a shelf mounted on the wall
behind the dog, there is a metal box, Will you:

Attack the dog? furn lo 294
Blow your wooden whistle (if you
have one)? Turn to67
Close the door and walk on up
the corridor? Furn to 379
27

You drop the gold ring into the box and step warily
on to the rope bridge. Itappears to bestrong enough
to bear your weight and you hurry across it unchal-
lénged. Tum to 117.

28

As you walk along, vou hear the sound of water
dripping from the ceiling into shallow puddles on
the stone floor. You hold out your hand and catch a
drop —and shout out in pain, Itis not water, as you
had thought, but some kind of corrosive acid. If you
have a shield, turn to 71. [f you do not havea shield,
you may either walk on and risk being burnt (tum to
335), or walk back to the hunchback and go through
the other archiway (turn to 291).
29-30

29
You summon all your mental energy and somehow
manage to break the grip that the Bone Devil has on
your mind. Holding tightly on ta the hilt of your
sword with both hands, you step forward, deter
mined to destroy your evil opponent.

BONE DEVIL

Before each Attack Round, roll one die. If you roll 1
or 2, you will not be able to resist the mental attack of
ihe Bone Devil and will be paralysed by fear again
(turn to 265). If you roll 3-6, you sill continue to
resist its mental attack and fight as normal. L you
win the combat, turn to 326.

/ SKILL 10 STAMINAS

30

The arrow strikes you in the back of your shoulder-
Lose 1 SK11.L point and 2 STAMINA points. It is
ayony cven to touch the arrow, but you overcome
ihe pain and tug if free. Paying more attention fo
your surroundings, you sel off ance again: turn to
398.

31-32

31

The Bonecrusher sniffs the air and, sensing where
you are standing, moves nimbly toits leftjustas you
release the net, which catches nothing but sand.
Lose + 1 Uck point. Roll two dice. If the total is the
Same as or less than your SKILL score, turn to 66. If
the total is greater than your SKIL1. score, turn to

334:

32
You anticipate the Trialmaster’s move. He brings
the pole around in a sweeping arc towards your
side, but you block it with ease. His pole strikes your
own with a loud crack. lf you wish to take the
initiative and strike back, turn to 239- If you wish to
defend again, turn to 267.

33-34

33
The dried flowersand grasses are used asa nest bya

poisonous red-back spider. Your hand inadvertent-
ly brushes against it as it crawls along a poppy stem.
The spider bites you on the hand and the effect of
the poison is swift. Lose 4 STAMINA poinls. If you
survive the bite of the spider, you walk on along the
tunnel: turn to 69.

<Se i bee =
ha y rea =
A, ho aes 2 ->-
> — = in
oan iF oti ip 250
> Pe.
7; ey .
ie *
r= =
~ A ~
Ee Hs Rak Aa fh) ee =
= ea OY a i oe
i esd : ! +3 ; >
- : —<-
~ “re | ' i -— -
Ss = Halll) a2tes

34

The trunk is full of the Orc's possessions, although
most of them are rubbish. A jar of rat-tails, an ogre’s
hip-bone, mouldy bread, a pair of worn-out boots, a
broken arrow, damp breeches which are green with
mildew, three wooden pegs anda cracked water jug
are just a few of the items in the trank. But under-
neath all the junk, you find a breastplate. If you
wish to try on the breastplate, tum to 321. If you
would rather leave the room without the breastplate
and continue along the tunnel, turn to 133.

35-36

35
You do as instructed and watch the Tnalmaster as

he counts the rings. ‘So far so good,’ he says, “Now
if you will follow me, we'll proceed to the next
stage” He gathers up the rings and leads you to the
throne he was sitting upon. He gives you back the
rings and tells you to sit down. Ihere is a panel,
divided into nine squares, three by three, tn the arm
of the chair, with each square numbered between
one and nine. ‘Now, I want you to place three rings
on three of the numbered squares, in order.‘ IF you
know which squares to place the rings upon, turn lo
that reference. If you do nol know, turn to 234.

36
You find a gold ring lying on the stone floor under
the straw. You place it in the leather pouch on your
belt and then leave the room to continue along the
tunnel. Tum to §2.
37-39

37

You walk quickly into the cave and when your eyes
become accustomed to the dark, you see the person
who is crying for help. It is the small humanoid
whom you saw not long ago, and now he is caught
in the enormous web of a Giant Spider. Unable to
tree himself from the tangle of sticky strands, the
tiny man begs vou to cut him free. Suddenly, the
spider itself drops dawn from the ceiling on to its
web and scurries across it towards its trapped prey.
lf you wish to attack the Giant Spider, turn to 118. If
you would rather abandon the man and continue
along the tunnel, turn to 397-

38
You fall awkwardly on the steps and sprain your
wrist. Lose 7 Sxit.t poimt. Your injury does nat
Geter you from jumping to vour feet and renewing
the strugele. Turn to 8.

39
The impact of the crossbow bolt knocks you back-

wards. A fierce pain gps your thigh where you see
the bolt protruding. Lose 2 STAMINA points. Gril- .
ting your teeth, you pull the bolt from your thigh
2nd bandage the wound as best you can. Limping
painfully, you turn the corner and walk on another
nity metres before coming to a door in the right-
hand wall If you wish to open the door, turn ta 104.
if you would rather keep on walking, turn to 20.
:

40-42

40
The old man does a backward somersault and lands
gently on his feet with a smile on his face. You
devide to play a wailing game and let him make the
next move. Turn to 204-

41
As soon as you pull the axe from the wooden block,
it takes on a will of its own and you are unable to ict
go. At first the axe makes great sweeping cufs
through the air, the blade flashing dangerously
close to your legs. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 296. If you are Unlucky, turn ic. 269-

42
‘The spiked ball hits your shoulder, but it is only 2
slancing blow. Lose 1 STAMINA point. You con:
jinue to swing your awn weapon, and now with

|

success, as the ball thumps into your opponent's |

leg, knocking him off his fect: He remains groaning ©

in the sand, and you move away before somebody
else hears where you are. As quietly as possible you
move to the left: turn to 120.

43-45

43
You enter a small room which is empty apart froma

suit of armour with a winged helmet on top of it.
The armour is propped up between two high-
backed chairs and a shield is resting against ane of
them. There is another door in the far wall which is -
also painted with runes and symbols. Will you:

Take the winged helmet? Tur to 126
Take the shield? furn to187
Try to decipher the runes? Tum to157

Openthedoorandleavetheroom? Jurnio2212

44
in the left-hand wall of the tunnel, you see a hole

about half a metre in diameter. From inside you can
hear a strange mixture of clicks and hums. If you
wish to climb through the hole, turn to 30. If you
would rather walk on, turn to 155-

45
itis notlong before you arrive at yet another doorin
the left-hand tunnel wall. Lf you wish to open the
door, turn to 235. If you would rather keep on
walking, turn to 177-
46-45

46
|  Youclimb the ladderas quietly as possible and peep
asia par: Y ALAR ED | through the hole in the ceiling. You see a goblin
IE Petiypee Hk LRG CPL | Ue eg lying dead on the floor, his hand still gripping an
PoE Sn eet — _ Open silver box. A stone has been removed from the

far wall and you presume the box was hidden
behind it. If you wish to pick up the silver box, turn
to 224. If you wvould rather climb down the ladder
and carry on walking up the tunnel, turn to 361.

As you walk warily along the tunnel, you suddenly
become aware Of a strange clicking noise. Then out
of the gloom of a cave entrance in the tunnel wall
scuttles a three-metre long monster with many tiny
legs. The clicking noise comes from its black, bony
plates of chitinous armour rubbing together as it
moves. Itadvances speedily towards you. Suddenly
it stops and raises itself on its hind legsso thatit can
dart forward to bite you with its strong mandibles.
For a moment, the soft underbelly of the Giant

Centipede is exposed. IF you are carrying a spear,

is turn to 244. H you do not have a spear, turn to 270.

t J

BS 48

S8Si24 You stare at the levers and make your choice. Will

SeSaM you pull:

BERENS 4 - oye

3 S32 : Lever number 3? lurnto377

asl Lever number 6? Turn to 257
Lever number9? ‘Turn to158
Lever number 12? Turn 0116

49-51

49
The soup is thick with chicken and vegetables and

tastes delicious, You devour it greedily and mop up
the last drops with the bread. You have not eaten
well fora fortnight and now feel fit and ready for the
coming ordeal. When you have all finished cating,
you are led away to begin your first day in the Arena
of Death. Turn to 22.

50
The steps are quite steep, and it requires 4 mighty
leap ta clear them. If you are wearing 2 breastplate,
turn to 206. If you are not weanng a breastplate,
turn to 327.

si
With a deft manoeuvre, you change your defence
and bring your pole down te protect your ribs. The
Trialmaster’s pole strikes your own with a loud
crack. If you wish to take the initiative and stike
back, turn to 239. If you wish to defend agem, tun
to 267-

52-55

52

The room is empty apart from a pile of straw and old
bones in the far corner. If you wish to rammage
through the straw, turn to 36. If you would rather
leave the room and walk along the tunnel, turn to
82.

53
The cloak is made of a special materia] which has
fire-resistant properties. Add 1 vuck point, If you
now wish to lookin the fourth and fifth urns, turn lo
147. If you svould rather walk on, tum to 69.

54
At the bottom of the pit there is a sharpened stake

pointing upwards. You land on top of it and death is
instantanenus.

55
Even though your sword appears tv cut the idol, it

does not harm her at all. She is immune to non-
magical weapons. Her flashing blades rain down on
you and it is impossible to escape. You defend
yourself valiantly for several minutes until one of
the swords finally breaks through your defence, For
you the tial is over,
56-57

56

You curse your choice of weapon, for you Know that
swords make little impression on the iron-like hide
of a Bonecrusher, There is only one way to slay a
Bonecnasherand thatis to make il fall to the ground,
whereupon its delicate balance will be totally des
troyed, and it will be impossible for the Bonecrusher
ever ty stand again. You will have to chop atits legs
while avoiding its fatal grip.

BONECRUSHER

As soon as you lose one Attack Round, fur to 343.
If you win without Josing an Attack Round, turn to
268.

SKILLO STAMINA {0

57

As you break open the loaf, something heavy falls
out and lands on your lap. It is an iron file, which
could prove useful in the future, You tuck it into
your bell and hegin to eal the loaf. Add 2STAMINA
points. Tf you now wish to cat the salted beef and
have not done sa already, turn to 184. Otherwise
there is nothing else you can do except climb back
up the stairs (turn to 305).

58-60

58

Walking along, you step on a stone which triggers
an unseen trap. Iron bars drop down from holes in
the ceiling in front of you and behind you. You
strain to lift them, but are unable to move them, and
they are too thick to bend. If you are carrying afilein
your pouch, turn to 106. If you do not possess a file,
turn to 396.

5
The door is locked. If you wish to charge it open
with your shoulder, turn to 91. U you would rather
save yourself the effort and walk on up the tunnel,
turn to 150.

60
As expected, the hinged lid clicks and falls open
when you pull on the elephant’s trunk, A gold ring
falls on tu the floor; you pick it up and place il in
your leather pouch. You wasle no more time in the
chamber and walk quickly towards the passageway.
Turn to 263.

61-62

61

A cheer goes up as your opponent drops ta the
ground. You hear guards enter the arena and soon
your blindfold is removed and your weapons are
untied from your wrists. You are led away to your
cell, realizing that only the southerner stands be-
tween you and victory. That night you are well fed
and your wounds are bandaged. Add 4 stamina
points. In the morning, the familiar ritual of being
led into the arena is repeated, but this time you are
made to stand face to face with the southerner. You
are each handed a dagger and a studded lave. At
the command of Lord Carnuss, the final arena battle
commences.

SOUTHERNER SKILL IO STAMINA 10

Ui vou win, turn to 262.

62

Your temple takes the full force of the crushing

blow. You fall back on to the ground, your sword no
more than half-way out of its sheath. Your tnal is
lirushed.
63-66

63
You arte fortunate to be wearing a talisman which
protecis you against the mental attack of a Bone
Devil, which paralyses its opponents with fear. Add
1 LUCK point. Gripping your sword tightly, you
step forward to fight your adversary-

BONE DEVIL

If you win, turn to 326.

SKILL10 STAMINAS

64
As you struggle to escape the tangles of the web, the
Giant Spider bites deeply into your leg. Lose 2
STAMINA points. Roll hyo dice. If the total is the
same as orless than your SKILL score, tum to 1208. If
the total is greater than your SKILL score, turn to

254.

65
You find some halfeaten food ticked into the
ragged furs of the Hill Troll. 1t smells homible and
does not look at all tempting. If you still wish to
eatit, him to 201. If you would rather walk on, tum
to 244.

66
Your dexterity allows you to gather up the net while
avoiding the sweeping arms of the Bonecrusher.
Once again you take aim and hurl the net. Roll one
dic. If the number rolled is 1-3, turn io 255. If the
number rolled is 4-6, turn to 189.

67-69

67
The high-pitched note emitted by the whistle has a
tranquillizing ctiect on the dog. lt stops growling
and slowly its eyes start to close, It flaps down to the
floor and is soon fast asleep. Turn to 217.

68

You soon artive at the doorway in the right-hand
walland are faced with a heavy iron door. You press
your eat against the door and can just make out the
sound of a woman’s voice chanting. lf you wish to

open the door, furn to 328. Otherwise, you may
either carry on down the tunnel (turn to 285), or go
back alonir the other branch of the T-junction (turn
to 227).

fwenty metres further along, you come to another
door. The dooris painted black and has a laryze brass
ring as a handle. If you wish to open the door, turn
t 182_ IFyvou would rather keep on walking, tum to
109.
79-72

70

Nothing strange or untoward happens to you as 2
result of putting on the medallion. You look around
and decide the best plan is to climb back up the rope.
Turn to 328,

Holding the shield over your head, you walk along
the dripping tunnel unharmed. At last you see
daylisht at the end of the tunnel, and walk quickly
towards it. Turn to 188.

72.
The Lrialmaster remains silent for a moment and

then says slowly, “You have failed the test. You will
now become my servant to replace the caveman in
future tug-of4var contests.” You know that it is
impossible far you to overcome the power of the
Trialmaster’s magic, and you resign yourself to a life
of servitude. But perhaps one day you will have
your revenge against Lord Carnuss. . -

73

73

Unknown to you, there is a body lying in the sand
directly in your path. You Mp over it and fall to the
ground. Suddenly you hear the whooshing sound
of 2 ball and chain being swung near by. The wiclder
of the ball and chain has heard you fall and is
moving in for the kill. But he too falls over the body
and lands on top of you. He is heavy and drenched
with sweat. You start lo grapple with him in the
sand. punching with your shield-arm while trying
to free your other arm to swing the ball and chain.

SLAVE SKILLG STAMINAS
if you win, turn to 196-
,

74-76

74
As you begin to lift the grate, it suddenly flies up in

the air, pushed from below by a powerful and
hideous creature. A grotesque head appears ona
long segmented body. It has no eyes, bul a large
suckered mouth surrounded by sharp hooks, and it
strongly resembles a giant tapeworm. Attcacled by
the heat of your body, the Bloodworm extends its
body forw: ard inan attempt to hook on to your flesh.
Roll one die. If you roll 1-3, turn to 325- Tf you roll
4—6, turn to 234.

73

the pig shatters into many pieces with a tap from
the hilt of your sword. Lying among the fragments
of clay you see a small charm made of shiny black

coral. But the charm is cursed and will bring you ill
fortune. Lose 21 ucK points. Atthe back of the cave,
you find a small, dark passage which winds away
into the gloom. If you wish to walk along the:
passage, turn to 144. Lf you would rather walk back
out inte the narrow tunnel, turn to 230.

aa

Suddenly you hear footsteps coming quickly down
the corridor: sumebody or something has come to
investigate what all the: noise is about. With your
sword gripped tightly, you furn to face the heavily
armoured Mutant Ore guard advancing with its
poleaxe.

MUTANT ORC SKILLZ STAMINA?

If you win, turn to 341-
77-78

77
You run up the stone steps and start to hack at the
huge tongue with your sword. A large gesh opens
up and purple blood pumps from it, soaking you
and making the steps treacherously slippery. As the
tongue thrashes about, the elf screams louder in
avony. Roll two dice. If the total is the same as or less
than your SKILL score, turn to 245. lf the total is

yreater than your SKILL score, turn to 132.

78

You see the ogre’s leg just in ime and manage to
jump over it and race to the front. You slow down
again and dictate the pace of the race to suit your
self, Round and round the arena you mun, gritting
your tecth harder each time you jump over the
burning coals. After twenty minutes, nobody has
been lefi behind, so one of the northmen decides to
spring away. He runs past you and everybody
accelerates to keep up. [hrow two dice, adding 3 io
the total if you svere flogged by the guards. If the
total is the same as or less than your SKILL score,
turn to 360. If the total is higher than your sxii1.
soore, turn to 250.

79—-Ha

79
The Hill Troll catches sisht of you from the corner of
its eve and turns to face you. It looks even angrier
than before, and picks up its battle-axe to attack you
ina raging frenzy.

HILL. TROLL

SKILL

STAMINAIO

If you win, tum to 65.

You struggle against the illusion, but your mind
believes that the pain is real. You drop to the floor,
writhing in agony as the pain grows more intense.
Lose ¢ STAMINA points. The Liche Queen slowly
rises from her throne and walks over to deliver the
death-blow with her bone dagger. In agony, you
Struggle to your feet to fight her.

LICHE QUEEN

During this combat, reduce your SKILL score by 3. Lt
you win, turn t 277-

SKILLY STAMINAYQ
§1-84

81
You take the brass hands out of your leather pouch
and fit them on to the socket in the centre of the
clock. The time now displayed is three o'clock pre-
cisely, You turn to the levers and deduce which one
must be pulled. Turn to 48-

82
The tunnel soon comes to an end at a Tjuncton. fi
you wish to head left, turn to 229. If you wish tv
head right, turn to 304.

83
‘The arrow strikes you in the middle of your back
and pierces your heart. Once again Deathtrap
Dunyeon lives up to its name.

84
You pay for your ignorance with your life,” comes
the voice from the skeleton. A bolt of energy shoots
cut from its finger and slams into your chest, Killing
you instantly.

85-87

85
You climb over the bleeding tongue and see that
steps descend a long way down. You can just make
out the faint voice of a girl singing. If you wish to go
down the steps to investigale, turn to 364. If you
would rather walk back out to the tunnel, turn to
138.

86
Your ankle is badly sprained, making it impossible
to run. The northman soon runs around the arena
and passes you, so ending the rece. While the other
five runners up are led back to their cells, you are
quickly put to death before the next race slarts,

87
in total darkness, your shaking hand fumbles inside
the pouch in search of the phial. If you have mare
than one phial in vour pouch, turn to 365. If you
possess only the phial of anti-puison, turn to 331-
ste
ren

‘ ic =e Trew 40
ey) si iretery,,,”
— -

88—g0

88

As you get closer, you see that a rope loops through
2 hook in the ceiling and that a wooden box is
suspended by it, well out of reach. The other end of
the rope loops through a hook in the floor and back
up to a wooden block where it is fastened by iron
bands. An axe is sticking out of the block and an
inscription on the blade reads “Ropecutter’. Will
you:

Cut the rope with the axe? Turn logit

Cut the rope with yoursword? Tum ta149

Ignore the rope and walk on? Turn lo 388
89

As you step deeper into the caye, the noise of
droplets of water falling from the ceiling into the
pools below grows ever louder. In the gloom of the
cave you do not see a poisonous snake which is
slithering across your path. Test your Luck, If you are
Lucky, furn to 105. If you are Unlucky, turn to 137,

go

A delicate sound rings out from the small bellas you
tap it with the hilt of your sword. You hear a
fluttering of wings overhead. You get ready to
defend yourself, but a white dove flutters down and
settles on top of the bell. Much to youramazementit
ts holding a gold ring im its beak which il drops into
the palm of your hand. With the ring safely stored in
your pouch, you walk back down the corridor and
turn left into the tunnel. Turn t 333.
———— ee "|

91-93

91
Roll two dice. Lf the total 1s the same as oF less than
your SKILL, turn 10 332. If the total is greater than
your Skil 1, turn ho 357-

92 :
The Trialmaster tells you to place the rings on top of

the bench. Turn to 367-

93 J
‘The stairs end at a door fram which youcan hear the

sound of squeaking animals and patterning feet. If
you wish to open the door, turn to 146. Ifyou would
rather climb back up the slairs, turn to 305-

94

sa

You get into a steady rhythm of ducking and jump-
ing and slowly the pole spins to a halt. You have
survived another ordeal. The next test begins im-
minediately: you and the restare split into two groups
of five. You watch the first group of a dwarf, a
man-ore, 2 woman warrior, a barbarian and a dark-
skinned southerner stand silently as a spiked ball
and chain is lashed to each of their sword-arms, and
2 small shield is lashed to their other hand. They are
then blindfolded and ordered to commence battle
against one another until there is only one left
standing. Itis a sickening spectacle to watch, as the
fighters ead warily around the arena, swinging
their balls and chains. The diwart falls first, quickly
followed by the warrior woman. In the end, the
southerner stands triumphant and his blindlold is
removed. He is led away and then each member of
your group is armed in the same way. You can feel
your heart pounding in your chest as the order is
siven to commence combat against the four unseen
adversaries. Barefoot in the sand, nobody makes a
sound. If you wish to step to your lelt, turn to 297. lf
you wish to step to your nght, tum to g.

95-97

95
The cool water of the fountain is refreshing, but has
a terrible side-effect. Add 1 sramINa point, but
deduct 2 SKIL1. points as the water rapidly acceler
ates your aycing process. You have aged thirty
years in less than a minute. Bul you do not realize

what has happened and continue walking resolute-
ly along the tunnel. Turn to 329.

96
You pull a few rocks away from the pile and see that
there isa doorway behind. If you wish to spend time
clearing away the rocks so that you can open the
jron door, turn ta 215. lf you would rather walk to
the door on the other side of the Tjunction, tur to

375-

97
The fruit is delicious and satisfying. Add 2 sTAM-
INA points, When you have eaten your fill, you
open the only door in the room. Turn to 163.

98-99

The door opens into a roar which is empty except
for 2 wooden table on which a jug and a flask are
resting. The jug contains a clear, sparkling liquid
which is odourless. [you wish to pour some of the
liquid into the flask in order to drink il, turn to 4, IF
you would rather leave the room and walk back past
the last T-junction, turn to 232.

The caveman is just too strong for you. With a
mizhty heave, he pulls you forward, and you fall
headiong down the pit to your death-
100-102

100

| Only your ightming-quick reflexes save vou from
being Knocked into the river. You teeter on the
ledge. but regain your balance. You draw your
sword to attack your enemy. From out of the dark
cave steps 2 creafure which has the appearance ofa
stooped, starving man with long arms touching the
eround and gaunt, brawn leathery skin. You recog-
nize it as a Strider, a cunning hired killer. The
Strider is armed with an iron pole which has blades

| ateither end. ltisa fearsome weapon in the hands of

) the dextrous Strider.

STRIDER SKILLY STAMINAY

if you win, turn to 19.

101
The heat from the flames is so intense that you are
consumed by the fire and fall to the ground, The
| deadly dungeon has clatmed another victim.

102
Unfortunately for you, the tactics fail. Your appa-
nent changes tactics too, and swings his ball and
chain downwards rather than above his head. Tesf
your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 42. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 283.

103-104

103

The Siren’s song has its effect on you before you
think to cover your ears. Lured by the hiting voice,
you step into the warm lake and swim towards the
rock. But the lake is also home to a giant squid-tke
monster with tentacles five metres long. From the
murky depths of the lake, it sees you swimming on
the surface and glides silently up to wrap its ten-
lacles around you. You suddenly feel something
turing al your foot and then see the giant monster
of the Jake as it surfaces. Roll two dice- If the total is
the same as or Jess than your SKILL score, frm to
191. lf the total is greater than yoursxk11.1-score, tum
to 356.

104
The door opens into a room which is empty except
fora large bowl of exatic-looking fait standing on 2

marble plinth. If you wish to cat some of the fruit.”

hirn to 395. Lf you would rather leave the room and
continue up the tunnel, turn t 20.

105-107

105

Fortunately you do not tread on the snake, ancl it
slithers harmiessly away. You spend about five
minutes searching the cave, but you find nothing of
interest, nor any other exit. Your only choice is to
return to the main tunnel and walk on. Turn tu 161.

106

You take out your file and begin the long and
laborious task of filing through tw of the iron bars.
it takes an hour to escape from the cage, but at last
you are free. Walking quickly along the tunnel, you
are surprised to see a2 painting of Baron Sukumvit
hanging on the wall. If vou wish to take down the
painting and inspect it more closely, turn to 314. If
you would rather walk on, turn to 228.

107

One of the northmen takes the lead, setting a fast
pace. Round and round the arena you run, pritting
your teeth harder cach time you jump over the
burning coals. After bventy minutes, nobady has
been Icft behind and the northman increases his
stride. Throw two dice, adding 3 to the total if you
were flogeed by the guards. If the total is the same
as or less than your SktL1t score, turn to 360. [f the
total is higher than your SKILL score, turn to 250,
108-110

708
You manage to disentangle yourself irom the
spider‘s web and are able to resume combat. If you
manage to kill the Giant Spider, furn to 348.

109
The tunnel eventually ends at a T-junction. Looking
right, you can see a bright glow in the distance, and
looking left, you see that the tunnel ends ata door. If
you wish to walk towards the bight glow, turn to
143. If you would rather open the door to your left,
turn to 386,

110

Standing on the tip of your toes, you reach up and
grab the spear. One sharp tug loosens it from ifs
fitting, but the others remain lodged in the ceiling.
Pleased with the acquisition of this unexpecied new
weapon, you set off along the tunnel agam. Turn
lo 5.

111-112

The Trialmaster suddenly sweeps the pole round in
a side arc, and you are forced to change your defen-
sive stance very quickly. Roll two dice. [f the total is
the same as or less than your SKIL score, turn to 51.
if the total is greater than your SKILL score, turn lo

169.

112
The chaos champion sneers at your pathetic attempt
to form an alliance and demands that you give him
all your gold. If you obey him, turn to 323. lf you
have no gold or do nol wish to give it away, turn to

178-

SS

<e,

| ft Whi
' id

>|
f

Hh

113-114

113
By the end of the day, only one other person returns
> your cell. Itis the mean-looking easterner, a man
who looks as though he would murder you for two
copper pieces. As the light quickly fades, a guard
shouts out an unexpected command. ‘There are
now Gro of you left in each cell. l only want one to
come out in the morning for tomorrow’s combat.
Sleep well The guard bursts out laughing at his
joke, and even before he has finished, the easterner
dives at you, brandishing a long. sharp pin which
was concealed in his headband. Unarmed, you
must fight to the death,

EFASTERNER SKILL10 STAMINAS

If you win, turn to 237.

114

You fall well short of the other side of the pit, but
mstead of crashing to your death, you begin to float
up to the other side of the pit, carried by the magical
wings of your helmet. You look behind you and see
the Zombies crowded together at the end of the pit.
You allow yourself a smile of relief and walk on up
the tunnel. Turn to 251.

= 9 a ee

415-117

1i5

Something rattles inside the pot, bul when you
throw it on to the floor, it does not break open, but
merely cracks, anda green gas starts to escape from
it and fill the room. Will you:

Stayin the room? Turn 10173
Run into the cave? ‘Turn t0307
Run back into the tunnel? Turn tozs5e

1316
Pulling the lever down does not halt the steady
movement of the walls closing in. You try pulling
anather lever, but they are all locked in position.
You try wedging your sword between the walls, but
it quickly snaps, and moments later you are crushed
to ceath.

117

The tunnel eventually comes toa dead end. There is
a stone tablet set in the end wall with a small,
circular hole in ils centre. Around the hole are
etched the words: ‘One is on and twois gone." Ifyou
wish to reach into the circular hole, turn to 179. lf
you svould rather retrace your sieps back over the
bridge and walk beyond the ‘l-junction, fhirn to 229-

118-119

118
You draw your sword and close in on the huge black
atachnid-

GIANTSPIDER

if you do not defeat the Giant Spider within five
Attack Rounds, you Loo will become entangled in its
web. If this happens, make a note of the Giant
Spider's SKILL and current STAMINA score and
then turn to 64. If you manage to kill the Giant
Spider in five Attack Rounds or less, turn to 348.

SKILLZ STAMINAS

119

The nuts and berries taste as delicious as they look.
Add 2 stamina point. When you have eaten
enough, you place the remainder in your pouch and
set off once again. Turn to 288,

120-122

120

You walk very slowly, as you know there are bodies
lying in the sand, You stop to listen, but hear
nothing. You decide to turn around and walk in the
opposite direction. Suddenly you hear a gruff voice
ery oul, ‘Lf there is anybody else, ’m over here.” You
decide to acocpt the bold challenge and walk in the
direction of the voice, swinging your ball and cham-_
You clash head on with your unseen opponent ina
blind fight ta the death.

FIGHTINGSLAVE

if you win, turn to 61.

sxiii§ STAMINAS

121

Your dagger bounces off the plated armour of the
chaos champion. He is enraged and you must suller
the consequences. Turn to 247-

122
Despite all the noise you make, no creature of any
kind arrives ta investigate, At last the final board
comes free and you are able to open the door. Tum
to 13.

oh:

123-124

123
You look into the Bloodworm’s foul lair beneath the
grate, but see nothing. The floor is covered with
fetid sludge and the smell makes you feel nauseous.
If you wish to climb down into the lair, tum to 243. If
you would rather walk on up the tunnel, turn to17q.

ot
;

As soon a5 you open the box, your whole body
seems to stretch as though you are being sucked
through 2 keyhole. You are consumed by terror
when you realize you are in a black void, You can
feel nothing around you — walls, ceiling or floor.
You are a prisoner in the trapping box, and the
dwarf, who had opened the box earlicr, is now free.
Your face is now shown carved on the lid of the bax
and you cannot escape unless some other foolish
person opens the box. Test your Liuckand add 3 to the
total. Tf you are Lucky, firn to 399. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 24.
125

125

The iron key fits tightiv inside the lock and tums
with a loud click. You breathe a sigh of relief and
walk through the open door. Before you is a lavishly
furnished room where a bearded man clad in long
red robes is sitting on an ornate golden thrane,
reading a book. A small winged creature, rect in
colour and boasting a long tail, is sitting on his
shoulder, looking very menacing. On the wooden
bench to the right of the man, various glass recep-
tacles linked by tubes have different-coloured Li-
quids bubbling inside them. At the end of the zigzaz
tubing, a glowing crystal bowl collects the slow drip
of liquid from the end of the open tube. The man
looks up and says in an even tone, “Enter. 1 must
admit that I am very surprised to see you. The
deadly traps are obviously nat deadly enough for
the likes of you. Allow me to introduce myself: my
name is Lexus. [am a grand wizard by training, and
I have been hired by Baron Sukumvit as a Trial-
master for this year’s Trial of Champions. You are
now in the final stage of your ordeal and only I stand
between your success or failure. You will have
discovered that there are a number of gald rings
hidden in the dungeon, and the number you have
collected is vital to your success, Do you have an
odd number of rings or an even number?’ If you
havean add number, turn to az. fyouhave an even
number, turn to 367.
126-127

126

You take the magnificent helmet and place it on
your head. Seconds later, the suit of armour jolts
forward and then moves towards you in jerky steps
with its mace raised in the air. Lf you wish to fight
the animated suit of armour, turn & 10. If you
would rather run for the door in the opposite wall,
tum to 281.

127

Before you can even get your breath hack, the
corpse of the Tire Imp starts to metamorphose be
fore your eyes. A tall red-skinned creature, with
large leathery wings, horns and coven hooves for
feet, stands before you. Flame shoots out from its
nostrils, and it carmes a whip in one hand and a
flaming sword in the other. Now you must fight the
vile Fire Demon.

FIRE DEMON

The Fire Demon does not only attack with its fam-
ing sword. Throw one extra die every Attack
Round, On a roll of 1 or 2, the fire from ifs nastrils
will burn you for 2 points of damage to your STAM-
INA, Ona roll of 3 or 4, its whip will lash you for1
point of damage to your sTAMINA. Ona roll of 5 or
6, both the shooting flame and the whip will miss
you. If you win, turn to 303-

SKILL170 STAMINAID

128-130

128
You step on a flagstone which activates the cross-
bow. The bolt flies down the narrow tunnel and
thuds into your body. Roll one die. Ifyou roll1, him
to 382. If you roll 2 or 3, turn ta145- If you roll 4, 5 or
6, tum to 39-

129

The tunnel extends only twenty metres before it
ends at the ede of a dark pit. You drop a stone
down the pit and hear it hit the bottom a few
seconds later. The sides of the pit are too smooth to
climb down and it would be foolish to jump dowar. Lf
you are carrying 2 climbing rope over your shoulder
and wish to climb down the pit using that, turn to
263- If you de not wish to climb down the pit or are
unable to do so, you must walk back along the
tunnel and past the last T-junction (turn lo 351).

£30

As you fell down the steps, the dageer cutinto your
back. Lose 2 more STAMINA points, You groan and
rub your bruised limbs before climbing back up the
steps. Once again, you leap over the red steps, only
this time with more effort. By the time you reach the
top of the steps, you are panting quite heav ily. Tum
to 141.
131-133

131

Just as you begin to swing the ball and chain, one of
the other combatants steps up behind you swinging
his weapon, Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to
148. If you are Unlucky, turn to 210.

£32
Trying to avoid the thrashing tongue, you slip on
the wet steps and fall over. Tes? your Luck. If you are
Lucky, tum to 271. If you are Unlucky, turn to 38.

133

Looking down the tunnel, you see that there is an
opening in the left-hand wall. Suddenly you see a
small head peer out from around the comer and,
judging by its height off the ground, vou deduce
that itis the smal] humanoid again. You call out and
tive chase, but by the time you have rounded the
comer, he is nowhere to be seen. You decide to walk
quickly down the new branch of the tunnel in the
hope of seeing the humanoid again. Tum to 287-

134-136

134
The Trialmaster is anticipating your over-eager
move and blocks your blow with ease. He steps
quickly to the side and thrusts his pole upwards at
your throat. Roll two dice. If the total is the same as
orless than your SKILL score, turn to 181. If the total
is greater than yoursktt.t score, turn to 308.

235
Al the moment, the potion is rich with healing
properties. Add 4 stamina points. Minding no
other exit from the room, you walk back down the
tunmel and on past the T-junction. Turn te 232.

136

When all the races are finished and the survivors are
back in their cells, you discover that the bald man
does not return; now there are only three others left
in your cell. Although exhausted, you find it dil-
ficult to fall aslee p: your mind is occupied with what
challenge the next day will bring. In the morning
you are fed, and then one by one = the slaves are led
away to the arena. Even hually your turn comes and
when you reach the door to the arena, you are tald
to choose weapons — bruadsword and shield, or
trident and net. Make your choice and tum to 275.

ae

137-139

137

You tread on the snake's tail and it strikes quickly at
you with its venomous fangs, which sink deep into
your calf. Lose ¢ STAMINA points, You use your
sword to lance the wound to draw out the poisoned
blood. Ifthe poison does not Kill you, you decide to
hobble out of the cave and back to the illuminated
tunnel: Lurn to 161-

138
Up ahead, you see a ladder which leads through 2
hole in the ceiling. If you wish to climb the ladder,
tum to 46. If you would rather keep on walking,
turn to 361.

139
The Ores are unarmed, having just thrown their last

dagger at the rat. On seeing you, they growl in
anyver and grab their swords tu attack.

SKILL STAMINA
First ORC ~ 5

Second ORC 6 6

Fight them one at a time in the small room. If you
win, tiirn Lo 295.

NSD
£45

140-142

140

The leaping Trialmaster tries to deflect your blow
with his fect, but you sidestep and strike him in the
ribs as he lands. You let out a victory cry, delighted
with your triumph against the odds in ritual com-
bat. Tum to 362.

141

You walk through a stone arch into a level tunnel.
After walking some thirty metres, you come acriss a
row of clay ums, each the same size and pattern,
lined against the right-hand wall. Ifyou wish tolook
inside the urns, tum to 208. If you would rather
walk on, turn to 69.

142

You decide to add your own ingredients to the
witch's brew by dropping the Vampire Bats into the
cauldron in the hupe of poisoning her. You look
around the reom and find a polished wooden box
with a face carved imto it -— a face which you recog-
nize. It is that of the dwarf who entered the
dungeon before you- You also find a small phial of
red dust hidden inside an old book. Will you:

Open the wooden box? Tum ta i24
Throw some dust on the floor? Turri lot
Put the phialin your belt pouch? Turn £300

Leave the room and continue alony

the corridor? Turn to 346
3-14

73
‘The tunnel ends at an archway which is mounted
‘with dragons’ heads made afiron. Flames shootout
of their mouths continuously, making a wall of fire
across the archway. IF you wish to run quickly
through the archway, ten [0 370. If you would
znther walk back down the tunnel to open the door
ast the Tjunction, turn to 386,

1
1 passage Svists and turns for what seems like
s. There aze no torches to light the way, and you
hhave to walk in pitch darkness with your arms
‘outstretched, You hear squeaks and syucalsas scur
ying fect run by, and onee or twice something soft
brushes against your legs. But you are not afraid of
spall rodents, and continue resolutely. All of a

den, sour leet sink inte something warm and.

shich squelehes and emits a disgusting, sul-
phurlike smell, Iwo more steps and the stinking
Slime is above your knees. If you wish to walk.
fusther into the slime, turn tp 359. If you would
rather walk back along the passage, through the
Tusker's eave and along the narrow tunnel, turn to

145-146

145

The crassbow bolt knocks vou back off your feetand
you fall to the stone floor, You feel a ternble pain in
your shoulder and sec the bolt lodged in it. Lose 1
SKILL point and 3 STAMINA points. Gritting your
teeth, you pull the bolt from your shoulder. Grimac-
ing with the pain, you bandage your shoulder as
best you can before setting off again. You tum the
corner and walk on another fifty metres before
coming to a dvor in the right-hand wall. If you wish
lo open the door, turn to 104. If you would rather
keep on walking, turn to 20.

146
You turn the handle of the dour and as soon as it
opens, you are pounced upon by a large rat. Others
wail to take over if the first is defeated.

SKILL STAMINA

First RAT 3 2
Second RAT 2 2
Third RAT 3 2
Fourth RAT 3 2
Fifth RAT 4 2

Fight the rats one at a time. As soon as you lose an
Attack Round, turn to 165. If you manaye to kill all
the rats without losing an Attack Round, turn to 18-

147-149

147
The fourth um is empty and the fifth urn is half-

illed with dried flowers and grasses. If you wish to
enpty the um out on to the floor, turn to 241. If you
would rather walk on, turn to 69-

148

You make first contact and your unseen opponent
cries out in pain as the spiked ball slams into his
shoulder. But vou do not hear him fall. You him
your head, listening intently for another grunt or
2roan. The man bites his lip and makes no sound. If
you wish to stay where you are and continuc swing-
ing the ball and chain, turn to 159. If you wish to
step to vour left, turn to 120.

139

One blow from yoursword cuts the rapein two. The
wooden box crashes to the floor and breaks apart.
Lying inside the broken box you find two brass
hands from a clock. Hoping that they might be of
use to you, you place them inside your leather
couch and walk on. Turn to 388.
150-152

150
The tunnel continues another thirty metres before
tuming sharply to the left. On rounding the comer
you see that there isa new branch in the nght-hane
wall. You are surprised ta see a small humanvid
suddenly pop his head out from the new branch,
but when he sees you, he quickly retracts it. You cal

out and give chase, but by the time you reach the:

comer, he is nowhere ta be seen. You decide to walk
quickly dawn the new branch of the tunnel in the
hope of seeing him again. Turn to 267.

452
You pull the cork from the phial with your teeth ang
pour the contents into your mouth. You start to
cough and splutier on the red dust you have swal-
lowed! Lose 2 STAMINA points, You realize your
mistake and throw away the phial. You rummage

again through your pouch and this time pull cut the

catrect phial. Turn to 260,

1
You step warily on to the rope bridge, testing it te
make sure it will bear your weight. You look
around, but see nobody, so you hurry ecross the
bridge unchallenged. Tum to 147.

153-455

153

You clear the red steps, but miss the step you had
intended to land on. You fall heavily on the stone
steps and roll over and over to the bottom. Lose 2
STAMINA points. If you have a dagger tucked in
your belt, turn to 130. If you are without a dagger,
turn fo 284.

154
Somehow you manage ty miss the large target and
the spear flies harmlessly past the Giant Centipede.
You curse and draw your sword to attack the giant
monster,

GIANT CENTIPEDE

if you win, tur to 2.

SKILL9 STAMINA?

155

You see in the right-hand wall a small recess in
which two candles are burning on either side of a
pewter plate. An assortment of nuts and dried
berries are piled high on the plate and look very
tempting. If you wish to eat some of the nuts and
berries, turn to 119. If you would rather walk on,
turn fp 283.
156-158

156

The door opens into 2 narrow, gloomy corridor at
the end of which you see a stone plinth with a large
2lass dome resting on top of it. Four black candles
sre burning on each of the corners of the plinth,
Huminatiny the dome with an eerie glow. As you
=pproach, you see that there is a tiny man trapped
inside the dome, jumping up and down, trying to
sttract your attention. [he man is no more than half
2 Metre tall and is wearing tight-fitting black hose.
Yoru notice that his ears are pointed and thathe hasa
wispy prey beard- He gestures to you to lilt the glass
come. Lf you decide to do as the man bids you, tum
to agg. If you would rather walk back down the
comidor and return to the tunnel, turn to 222.

157

ihere seems to be a pattern to one ol the runes, so
you set about trying to translate the message. Roll
one dic. If you roll 1—4, turn to 322. If you roll 5 or 6,
TUT [0 344.

158
Pulling down on the lever does not halt the steady
movement of the walls closing in. You try pulling
another lever, but they are all locked in position,
You try wedging your sword between the walls, but
it quickly snaps, and moments later you are crushed
=) death,
159-163

159
You decide to crouch down and swing low, hoping
your opponent will swing his weapon over your
head. Yes! your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 17_
you are Unlucky, turn to 102.

160
You just manage to hold on to the wall as the wind
gusts all around. Stones and debris are picked up
and carried along, but the whirlwind passes and
you remain unscathed. When all is quiet, you set of
once again. Turn to 195.

161
The tunnel turns right after another thirty metres
and you soon come to a dourway in the left-hand
wall. 1f you wish to open the door, turn to197- If you
would rather walk on, turn to 378.

162
You soon come to the edge of a pit which locks too
wide for you to jump across. If, nevertheless, you
wish to take a running jump over the pit, tum to
276. If you would rather walk back up the tunnel
and past the T-junction, turn fo 251.

163
The door opens out into a tunnel. You look lett anc
see nothing, but to your nght you see 4 small
humanoid running away from you. Intrigued by the
being, you decide to run after him. Tum to 258.

164-167
164

You step over the unseen tripwire and continue
walking, unaware of your narrow escape. Turn to

398.

165
Test your Luck. lf you are Lucky, tum to 389. If you
arc Unlucky, turn te 322.

166
Unknown to you, there is a bady lying in the sand
directly in your path, and you are fortunate not to
Sip over as you pass by. You decide to stand still for
2 moment and listen. You hear the whooshing
sound of a ball and chain being whirled through the
air directly in front of you. Will you:

Stand your ground and swing your own

bali and chain? Turn to 183
Step back? Turn to 349
Lie down in the sand and trip up

the person whois advancing? Turn tt 316

267

At the back of the cave you finda small dark passage
which winds away into the gloom. [f you wish to
follow the passage, turn to 144. [f you would rather
walk back out into the narrow tunnel, turn to 230.

NS?

Tae
168-170

168
the door opens into a large room with a massive
stone face carved into the back wall. Stone steps nse
up to its huge, open mouth, and al the top of these
steps vou see one of the other contestants withing
inagony- A large, purple tongue like a giant snake is
wrapped around the elven prince who is desper-
ately stabbing at it with his dagger. If you wish to
help the elven prince, turn to77- Tf you would rather
leave him and continue along the tunnel, turn to

169
Your modified defence is rendered useless by the
iehtning speed with which the Trialmaster attacks,
The bamboo pole thumps into your ribs and you
realize that all is lost. Turn to 72-

170

The Xoroa’s frantic clicking noises must certainly
have warned others in the colony. Bul if you wish lo
stay and search the chamber, turn to 223. If you
would rather climb through the hole and back into
the tunnel, furn to 155-
171-173

171

Emulating the old crone, you sprinkle some of the
red dust on the floor. Smoke rises up, and you fee!
as if you are spinning in a black void. Seconds later,
you find yourself standing in a small, empty room.
There is an iron door which is locked and has no
handle. You are trapped and there is no escape. Ihe
best you can hope is that Baron Sukumvit's servants
will find you before you starve to death. Alas, they
don’t.

172
Although your leg is bleeding and painful, atleast i
is not braken. Once again, the axe rises into the air
and swings down. Turn to 296.

173

The gas is nottoxic and soon drifts harmlessly away.
You pick up the clay pot and throw if against the
wall. This time it shatters and something shiny falls
on to the floor among the fragments of clay. You
look dawn and see a gold ring, which you pick up
and drop into your belt pouch. Finding nothing else
of interest in Lhe cold room, vou decide which way
to head. If vou wish to go into the cave, tum to 307.
Ifyou would rather return to the tunnel, turn to 250

174-175

174

The tunnel turns haipts to the left and then
doubles back on itself. You walk along it for fifty
metres before coming to a wooden daor. The lower
jav-bone of a dog is mounted crudely above the
door. if you wish to open the doar, turn to 26. If you
would rather walk on, turn to 379.

Bey

{
4

FS
&

175

You allow yourself a faint smile, as you have chosen
@ good weapon with which to fight your adversary.
Edged weapons cause little damage to the iron-like
hide of a Bonecrusher. There is only one way to slay
2 Bonecnisher and that is to make it fall to the
ground, whereupon its delicate balance will be
totally destroyed, and it will be impwssible for the
Bonecrusher to get to its feet again. You move
forward cautiously to snare it with your weizhted
net. Roll one die. If the number rolled is 1-3, turn to
31. If the number rolled is 4-6, turn to 189.
176-177

176

‘Incredible!’ says the old wizard. ‘Who would have
thought it possible? Never mind, stand up and
follow me.’ THe leads you through a doomvay into
another room, which has bare stone walls and ix
empty except for a long-case clock standing against
one of the walls. You notice that there are no hands
on the clock face. On the wall opposite the clock
there are four levers numbered 35, 6, g and 12. The
wizard mutters a few unintelligible words to his
familiar, which then flies off his shoulder and be
gins to circle over your head. You watch as the
creature grow’s sleadily bigeer until it has a two-
metre wingspan. Now I must leave you to fend for
yourself,’ says Lexus as he leaves-the room, locking
the door behind him. As soon as he is gone, the Fire
Imp swoops down to attack you, spitting fire.

PTRE IMP

if you win, turn to 127-

SKILLQ STAMINA

177
The tunnel eventually ends ata Tqunction. Looking
both left and right you see nothing of interest apart
from a door some way down to your left. Ifyou wish
to go left, turn te 68_ Tf vou wish 10 go right, turn to
227.

178-181

178
The chaos champion is predictably enraged by your
refusal to give him what he wants. With his legs
astride, he starts to swing his spiked mace through
the air. Turn to 247.

179
Slowly you teach further into the hole until your
fingers touch two buttons, one with the number 1
stamped into it, and the other bearing the number 2.
If you wish to press button number 1, turn to 12. If
you wish to press button number 2, turn fo 274,

180

There is a leather bag on the chavs champion’s
belt. Inside the bay you find a piece of paper with
“Set two, 358 scrawled on it in black ink. You also
find a small ivory box witha skull painted on the lid.
IF you wish to open the box. turn to 282. If you
would rather leave itin the bag and walk on up the
hinnel, turn to 44.

184
You react quickly and block the thnisting pole, You
both jump back and circle each other warily. Lf vou
wish to feign a move tu the left and then dive in low
to tip up the Trialmaster, turn to 223. Li you would
rather wait for him to make the next move, furn to

204.
182-185

182

The room is empty except for a large bronze statue
of a six-armed woman, dressed in decorative silk
and mounted on a marble plinth. The idolis holding
2 brass lamp in one hand, and a curved sword in
each ofits other hands, White smoke drifts up from
four silver pipes placed around the idol. If you wish
to take the lamp, tum to 311. If you would rather
keep walking along the tunnel, turn to 109.

183
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 218, If you
are Unlucky, turn to 387.

184

The dry salted beefis tough yet tasty. Youchew onit
and swallow itin big lumps, so preatis your hunger.
Add 4 stamina points. Eventually you feel as
though vou have eaten enough. If you have not
done so already, you may eat the loaf (turn to 57).
Otherwise there is nothing else you can do except
climb back up the stairs (turn to 395),

185
Gnpping your sword lightly, you step boldly to-
wards the Zambies. You manage to chap down two
of them, but the relentless barrage of clawed hands
clashing at your body finally wears you down. You
fall under the sheer weight of numbers, your body
crushed and torn. For you the trialis over.
186-187

186
the old crone looks up, cackles an evil laugh and
then throws some dust on the floor. A cloud of
smoke rises up and the old witch vanishes. Sudden-
ly there is movement above you, and you have just
enough time to draw your sword as two Vampire
Bats swoop down to altack,

SKILL STAMINA
First VAMPIRE BAT 5 s
Second VAMPIRE BAT : 4

Fight the bats one ata time. However, while you are
fighting the first Vampire Bat, the second will cling
to your back and suck blood from your neck. Lose 1
additional stamina point during every Attack
Round with the first Vampire Bat. you win, tum to
142,

187
You pick up the shield carefully, making sure you
do not move the chairjustin case thereisatrap. You
place the shield on your arm, and are well satisfied
with your new piece of armour. Add 1 SKILL point.
Will you now:

Take the winged helmet? Turn to126
Try to decipher the runes on the doar? Tum to157
Open the doorandleavethcroom? lurnto22z

188

185
There is a large crowd gathered at the exit to the
dungeon. When they see you appear, they can
hardly believe their eyes and burst into rapturous
applause, cheering at the tops of their voices. A
message is sent fo Baron Sukumvit. who was not
expecting anyone to emerge from the killer Jabyr-
inth. But you notice Lord Carnuss standing express-
ionless in the crowd, surrounded by his guards.
Hate wells up inside you, but you are toa exhausted
to think about avenging the slaves of Blood Island
just yet. Two men run fonvard and lift yqu on to
their shoulders and carry you to the town square
where the victor’s ceremony is to take place. You are
carried up a platiorm and set down ona cushioned
chair, while various servants tend to you, banday-
ing your wounds and giving you special healing
potions to drink. Add 2 5x11.1 points and 6 sram-
INA points. Atlast Baron Sukumvil appears to make
the presentation of 20,00 Gold Pieces. You stand
up to receive the prize, but Lord Carnuss climbs up
the steps of the platform ta intervene. Looking:
surprised, Baron Sukumvil asks. why his hated
brother has come to Pans. In a voice full of con-
tempt, Carnuss replies, ‘Because the warrior stand-
ing before you is my slave and is representing me. I
will take the prize, if you don‘t mind!’ Baron
Sukumvit tums te you and says, “This year, there is
an additional gift for the victor — any one wish will
be granted. Warrior, what is your wish?’ Your
chance has come and you answer that itis your wish
to fight Lord Carnuss and avenge the slaves who
189-191

died on Blood Island. Lord Carnuss tries to refuse
the challenge, but the screaming crowd starts to boo
and will not let him leave the platform. He tums to
face you, draws his sword and says, “So be it!”

LORD CARNUSS SKILL10 STAMINA10
I{ you win, turn to goo.

189

Your throw is on target, and lands on top of the
nearsighted Bonecrusher. As il thrashes around, it
becomes more and more entangled and Icts out an
enraged howl. Before it can break free, you tug hard
and pull the beast to the ground. The Bonecrusher
lies helpless and defeated. Panting with relief, you
are taken back to your cell. Turn to 113.

190

From a cave entrance in the left-hand well, you can
hear the sound of grunting. The entrance is low
down, and yau will have to stoop to enter- If you
wish to enter the cave, tum toe 279. If you would
rather continue walking along the narrow tunnel,
ELirn Lo 230.

191
You cut yourself free and swim as fast as you can
towards the rock, spurred on by the magical song.
But you are swimming to your doom. With your
arms hanging at your sides in heedless submission,
you smile as the Jong knife plunges into your chest.

192-194

i

One of the Orcs turns sat aioes his dagger at you.
At close range he does not miss. Lose 2 STAMINA
points. You pull the dagger from your arm and slep
forward to attack the Ores who are now brandishing
swords.

SKILL STAMINA
Iarst ORC 6 5

Second ORC 6 6

Fight them one at a time in the small room. If you
win, turn Lo 295-

193
You hold vour nose and run off down the tunnel as
fast as you can, expecting to hear the hissing sound
of escaping gas. But you do not hear anything and
are able to continue unharmed. Tum to 23.

194
You carefully lift the lid of the chest with yoursword
and find that the chest contains small parcels of
vegetables end rice wrapped in palm leaves. You
realize that you are very hungry and are tempted by
the food. If yon: decide to eat, turn lo 366. If you
would rather walk on without eating, tum to 47,

Mi

195-198

195
A figure ahead of you tums and slowly walks to-
wards you. Ashe steps undera torch, you recognize
the person clad in dark, spiked armour, One of the
other contestants, the chaos champion, is acdvanc-
ing towards you, wielding a two-handed spiked
mace. Will you:

Detend yourself with yoursword? = Turn to. 247
Throw a dagger at your adversary
(if you have one)? Turn tu6
Tr¥ to talk to him? Turn to112
196

You jump to your feet and listen intently for other
opponents. Hearing nothing, you step warily to the
left. Turn to 120.

197
As soon as you touch the door-handle, a shock runs
through your body. You manage to pull your hand
away, although it is shaking uncontrollably. Lose 2
STAMINA points. At last the tremors subside, but
you decide against trying the door again, and you
walk on. Turn to 378.

i98
The dned flowersand grasses are used asanesthy a
poisonous red-back spider. But luckily you sce it
crawling up the stem ofa poppy and crushit under-
foot. There is nothing else hidden in the flowers and
grasses, and you walk on up the tunnel. Turn to 69.
199-201

199

As soon as you lili the dome, the candles are extin-
guished and the cormidor is plunged into darkness.
You hear laughter echoing down the corridor before
your head starts to spin and you lose consciousness.
You have been tricked by a Black Imp, who has now
run off with all the contents of the pouch on your
belt. Make the necessary deductions on your Adpen-
tire Sheet and also lose 1 LUCK point. When you
finally come round, the Imp is nowhere to be seen.
so you return to the tunnel and carry on. Tum to
222.

200

The Trialmaster senses your aggression and uses his
mapic to bombard you with the wooden blocks,
which hurtle through the air towards you at high
speed. All six blocks find their target and smash into
your body as you try to fend them off with your
hands. Roll one die and deduci the number from
your STAMINA score, IF you survive the battering,
you decide to cal] oui to Noy and tell him that you
will obey him. The wooden blocks immediately fly
away and hover again in a circle around the Trial-
master. Turn to 369.

201
As soon as you have eaten a few mouthfuls of the
food, you begin to feel sick. Not only is the food
rotten, it is also infected with Flesh Grub eggs which
will soon hatch out and begin to burrow their way
oul of your stomach. Now you know why the Hill

202-204

Troll was punching the wall: it was because of pain,
not anger. All you have to look forward to ts a slow
and agonizing death. Your morale is low as you
realize that even if you manage to escape from the
dungeon, death awaits you. Lose 2 SKILL points
and 2 tuck points. Also deduct 1 STAMINA point
cach time you turn toa new reference. Cursing your
bad luck, you walk on, clutching your stomach.
Turn to 221.

202

Your ankle is only twisted and not sprained, and
you force yourself to min hard, ignoring the pain.
You think you will never catch the others up, when
suddenly one of them drops to the floor. Ll is the
dwarf, and he never moves again. The race is halted
and you are all led back to your cells, while the
dwarf is carried away before the start of the next
race. Turn to 136.

203
You cover your ears and scream al the top of your
voice to shut out the Siren’s song. You run through
the cave and into the tunnel beyond. Tum to 21.

204

The agile old man strides nimbly towards you with
the bamboo pole held to one side, You cannot tell
whether he is going to bring the pole down over his
head and strike at your head, or sideswipe you in
the ribs. IF you wish to anticipate a strike to the
head, turn to 121. Lf you wish to defend your ribs,
turn to 32.
205-206

205

The instant you lift off the top of the skull, you are
thrown back by a blast of cold air- The air has a misty
trail to itand begins to circle the cave at high speed.
Suddenly all the bones in the cave start to rattle.
Some start to move actoss the floor and group
together. They begin to rise off the floor and take the
rough shape of a skeleton. You watch transfixed as
the small whirlwind shoots inside the eye-sockets of
the skull. With horror you realize that you have
released the undead spirit of a Bone Devil, Ifyou are
wearing a medallion, turn to 63. If you are not
wearing a medallion, turn to 384.

206
the heavy breastplate weighs you down as vou leap
to clear the steps. Roll tvo dice. If the total is the
Same as or less than your SKILL scare, turn to 342. If
the total is greater than your SKILL score, turn to
153-
207-208

207
As you struggle to unlock the door, you do not see
ihe pointed finger of the first skeleton move. A bolt
of energy shoots out from the finger and slams into
your hack, killing you instantly.

tf. 5
4 ad

208

The first urn is empty, as is the second, but the third
ane contains a purple cloak, Will you:

Puton the cloak? Turn to53
Lookin the fourth and fifth ums? Turn t147
Leave the urns and walkon? Turn to 69

209-210

209
You open the horse’s saddlebag and find a mirror
and a wooden whistle. You slip them inside your
pouch and continue along the tunnel. It soon ends
al a T-junction. If you wish to go left, turn to 129. IF
you wish to go nght, turn to 352-

You cry out in pain as your opponent's spiked ball
slams into your arm. Roll one die. If you roll 1-3,
turn to 380. If you roll 4~6, turn to 393-
Tat “2
reed tek ee
* =
kb rs
“
FAS
AN
or.’ -.
~
~,
=
— \
—_ ae ~
_-—_
_— ——"
Sm = ——->
. ‘ -
. a 7
NA =
~
7 or of y
Cos

241-213

2it

After another thirty metres, the tunnel comes to a
dead end. [here is no sign of a secrel passage, so
you turn around and are surprised to see another of
the contestants stalking you. It is the eastern war-
tord, his tom hattledress stained red with bloc.
intent on murder, with his sword raised high, he
Steps swiftly and surely fywards you.

ASTERN WARLORD 5$x1r110 STAMINAY

m

if you win, turn to 354.

212

ihe hideous-looking woman reaches under the
cushions she is sitting on and then tosses an iron
Zauntict to the floor. You bend down, pick itup and
sip it on to vour right hand. Painimmediately grips
your hand and quickly spreads throughout your
body. You feelas though you are being crushed bya
Ziant vice and you begin to scream in terror. Roll
three dice. If the total is the same as orless than ¥OUuT
SKILL score, turn te 15. If the total is greater than
your SKILL score, turn to 80.

213

You find a carved bone horn on the floor. If you
wish to blow it, turn to 259. IF you would rather sling
itaround yourneck and climb back through the hole

tn the tunnel, turn to 155.
214-216

214
Your mind goes blank immediately, and when rou
regain yoursenses, you find yoursell al the entrance
lo the dungeon. The crowd sees you and starts to
jeer and hiss. They mush forward hurling stones.
Roll one die and deduct the number from your
STAMINA score. Realizing what is happening, you
turn and run back into the dungeon, past the door
on your left, to the T-junction. If you wish to head
left, hur ta 229. If you wish to go night, tum to 304.

215
It takes about twenty minutes to dear the rocks
away. Eventually you turn the handle of the door
and shove on it with your shoulder. The rusty ola
door creaks open and you find yourself standing in
a disused tunnel. The airis dank and musty and you
cannyt see far into the gloom. Bul as your eyes
become accustomed to the dark, you can see that
there isno way forward, as the roof of the tunnel has
caved in. On the back of the door there are words
and numbers written in chalk, but it is too dark tu
sec them properly. If you wish to fetch a torch from
the main tunnel so that you can see to read the
words and numbers, turn te 394. If you wouls
rather forget about the derelict tunnel and walk to
the door on the other side of the T-junction, turn to

373-

216
You land heavily on the floor of the pit, narrowly
missing a sharpened stake sticking up from the

217-218

floor. Your ankle is badly sprained, but luckily no
bones are broken. Lose 1 SKILL point and 1 sTAM-
{Na point. You look up and see the Liche Queen
elaring down at vou. She drops down into the pil
something which clatters on to the floor. Itis an iron
gauntict and you realize that there is no escaping
the Liche Queen's challenge. The sides of the pit are
rough enough for you to be able to climb up. When
you reach the top, the Liche Queen commands you
to put on the gauntlet, which you brought up with
you. You realize that there is noaltemative. As soon
a5 your hand slips into the gauntlet, itis gripped by
ternble pain, which soon spreads throughout your
body. You feel as though you are being crushed by a
giant vice, and you begin to scream in agonized
terror. Roll three dice. If the total is the same as or
less than your SKiLt score, turn to 15. If the total is
greater than your SKILL score, turn to Bo.

217

You step over the dog, reach up to the shelfand take
the box. You prise it open with your sword and find
2 copper bracelet inside. If you wish to place the
Draceiet on your wrist, lurn to 317. Uf you would
rather leave the room without it and continue along
the tunnel, turn to 379.

218
Your spiked ball finds its mark and crashes into the
temple of your unfortunate opponent. He drops to
the ground and does not stir again. Listening intent-
ly, you step warily to the left. Turn to 120.
219-220

219

the temperature inside the derelict room is much
loser than in the tunnel. You begin to shiver as
soon as you step into the room, and you can see
your breath hanging in clouds in the cold air. In the
far wall of the room you see a large tunnel entrance
from which you can hear the sound of slow fuot-
steps coming towards you and a long, low hissing
sound. You stand your ground, sword in hand, asa
hideous beast enters the room, It has a bloated
green stomach, like that of a huge toad, and a
grotesque, misshapen head supported by a blub-
bery neck_ Tt has a circular, extended mouth, whose
fat purple lips surround rows of sharp teeth: the
beast slices its prey and then sucks the innarcls out,
Fresh intestines are the delicacy of the Coldclaw,
and it intends to eat yours as punishment for enter-
me its lair.

COLDCLAW SKILL IO STAMINA II

Asthe vile beast lumbers towards you, the tempera-
ture appears to drop even further, Reduce your
SKILL score by 7 for this combat only. Lf you win,
turn to 252.

220
You shout out the wizard’s name at the top of your
voice, but get no reply. In the meantime, the walls
close in more and more, and now they are no more
than four metres apart. In desperation you decide te
pull one of the levers. Turn to 48.
221—223

221
You enter another room and are surprised by what
you see; turn {0 3.

222

Further along the tunnel, you stumble upon a pile of
rocks. Something underneath the rocks catches the
light and sparkles, Carefully, you remove some of
the rocks until you can see what is hidden under-
neath. lt is a broadsword, finely honed and perfect-
ly balanced. If you wish lo useit instead of yourown
sword, turn to 2g0. If you would rather leave it
where it lies and continue your walk, turn to 7.

223
The Trnalmaster is a skilled fighter, and anticipates
your every move. But heis surprised by your swill-
ness and has to jump up to avoid your pole. His
SKILL scorcis 8. Roll hyo dice. If the total is the same
as or less than his SKILL score, turn to 40. If the total
is wreatcr than his $111. score, tum to 256.

224-226

The silver box is very ornate, the work of a master
silversmith. But it has been placed here for a pur-
pose. It is a life-draining box and in less than two
minutes your fate is the same as that of the goblin.

225

You do not see the ogre’s leg, and you trip over it
and fall headlong in the sand. You jump up quickly
and have to run as fast as you can to catch up with
the pack. Lose 2 STAMINA points. Round and
round the arena you run, gritting your teeth harder
each time you jump over the burning coals. After
twenty minutes, nobody has been left behind, so
one of the northmen decides to sprintaway, forcing
everyone to accelerate. Throw two dice, adding 3 to
the total if you were flogged by the guards. If the
total is the same as or less than your $kt1.1. score,
turn to 360. if the total is higher than your SKILL
score, turn to 250.

226
You fall well short of the other side of the pit anc
plummet to your death some twenty metres below.
Unseen mouths make light work of devouring your
broken body.

alae

227-228

227

You soon arrive at a cave entrance in the left-hanc
wall of the tunnel. You peer inside but il is too dark
to see very far into the cave. Suddenly you hear =
high-pitched cry for help from deep within. If you
wish to enter in order ta investigate, turn to 37- TF
you sould rather keep walking along the tunnel
furn to 397.

228

The tunnel turms left up ahead and vou hear the
sound of grunting and heavy breathing coming
from round the comer. You walk quictly up to the
comer, peer round and see an ugly creature with
lon claws and sharp tecth, punching the wall in
anger. lt is the largest and most savage of all the
Trolis, a fearsome Hill Troll. You decide io try to
creep by the Troll while tt is preoccupied. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 361. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 79,

.

>>

229-231

229

After thirty metres, vou notice that the ceiling has
about twenty spears pointing down from holes in
the rock. You look on the ground for a tripwire
which may trigger them, but do not see one. If you
wish to walk on, tur te 390. If you would rather
retrace your steps and walk back past the T-
junction, turn to 304-

230

A wind starts to blow in your face and grows
Stronger until you can barely stand up in the face of
it. You cling desperately to a crack in the wall asa
small whirlwind comes howling down the tunnel.
Roll two dice. If the total is the same as or less than
your SKILL score, turn to 160. Lf the total is greater
than yourSkILt score, turn to 337.

231

You are soon delirious as the poison races through
your bloodstream. You slump down to your knees
and fall unconscious, never to wake again.

err

=
SSP LMR

232-234

232

The tunnel curves gently round to the right until
you reach two stonearchways. A hunchbackedman
dressed in rageed clothing is sitting on a stool
between the arches, sharpening a stick. He looks
surprised to see you and says, Well, I didn’t expect
anyone to get this far. You are nearly through the
dungeon. Just take the tunnel ta my leftand you will
reach the exitin five minutes.’ If you wish to lake the
hunchback’s advice, turn to 291. If you would rather
walk under the archway to his right, turn to 28,

233
The boots fit perfectly, and when you walk about
the cave in them, you feel nimble and sure-footed.
You are wearing elven Boots of Speed. Add 1 skiit
point. H you wish to rummage araund for some-
thing else, turn to 272. If you wish to walk back ta
the tunnel, turn to 150.

234
The Bloodsvorm’s head darts forward as it tries to
sink its mouth hooks into your flesh to suck your
blood. But you step deftly to one side, at the same
ime bringing your sword down on the extended
body. The stricken Bloodworm rears up and
attempts to hook you again.

BLOODWORM SKILL4 STAMINA
If you lose any Allack Rounds, you will automatical-
hy lose 257 A MINA points every Attack Round there-

after, whetheror not you win it, due to loss of blood.
if you win, furn tc 123.
2357237

235
The door opens into an empty room. You enter the
room cautiously and, as you do so, the door swings
slowly shut behind you. You search the room for 4
Secret passageway, but find no sign of one. To your
surprise, the door is not locked and vou are able to
walk out into the tunnel However, you do not
know that you entered a room of teleportation, and
are in a different tunnel from the one you were
walking along previously. Unaware of your tele-
portation, you walk on down the tunnel. Turn to

378.

236
You dive under the water and swim away from the
rock out of earshot of the Siren. You cover vour ears
as you surface by the shore and run through the
cave into the tunnel beyond to escape the dreaded
Siren, Turn to 21.

237
You slump back against the cell wall after the fierce
fizht with the easterner, and fall asleep irom ex-
haustion. hen all the survivors are assembled in
the arena in the mourning, there are only lwelve ol
you left, ‘he first test of the day inyolves a deadly
machine; you will need lightning reactions and steel
nerves to survive it. It is made of a pole fixed to a
heavy base. Two sharp blades stick out from either
side of the pole, one at head height and one at ankle
height. One of the slaves is made to sland by the
pole, which is promptly spun around by one of the

238

guards. The slave alternately has to duck under one
blade and jump over the other to avoid being badly
cut. Your turn comes last and there are nine survi-
vors so far, the two others having had their throats
cut You stand by the pole, adrenalin pumping
through your veins. The guard spins the pole and
you start tojump and duck. Roll two dice- If the total
is the same as or less than your SKILL score, turn to
94. If the total is greater than yourskeL1 scare, turn

to 324.

238

Remembering the disappearance of the old crone
who sprinkled dust on the floor, you decide to try to
do the same in a desperate attempt to escape. You
uncork the phial and empty the contents on to the
floor, Smoke rises up and you feel suddenly as
though you are spinning in a black void. Seconds
later, you find yourself standing in a small, empty
room. There is an iron door which is locked and has
no handle. If you possess an iron key, turn to 125. Uf
you do not have a kev, turn to 266.

239-242

239
You thrust your right arm foryard in an attempt to
strike the Trialmaster’s neck. He tries to counter
your blow by bringing his pole up quickly across his
body. His 5x11.1. score is 8. Roll two dice. If the tatal
is the same as or less than his $K111L score, turn to
248. li the total is greater than his sKiL1. score, tum

to 298.

240

The broadsword is an excellent weapon made by 2
famous armourer; it is also magical. Cutting the
mighty blade through the air, you confinue your
quest: Turn lo 7-

241
After emptying the urn, you begin to sift through
the flowers and grasses. Test vor Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn te 198, Lf you are € nhicky, turn to 33.

242

The floor of the room suddenty jolts, and then starts
to rise slowly upwards. It makes a continuous grat-
ing noise and you begin to panic as the floor nears
the ceiling. You are soon forced to lie down and you
try wedging your sword between the floor and
ceiling. However, itsnaps hike a twig, and less than
a minute later you are crushed to death.

ia

243-245

243
You drop knee-deep into the thick, brown sludge.

The dark brown body of the Bloodworm is about
eight metres long. and is coiled round inside its
stinking lair. You poke around in the sludge with
your sword and come into contact with something
solid. You reach down and pick up a corked bottle.
You wipe off the sludge and sve that it is made of
dark green glass. There isa piece of paper inside the
bottle which reads, ‘There is a door behind the pile
ofstones.’ It makes no sense to vou, but you make a
mental note of it. Finding nothing else of use, you
climb out of the lair and carry on walking along the
tunnel. Turn to 174-

ait
You hurriedly aim the spear and furl it at the sant
monster. Roll two dice. If the total is the same as or
less than your SKILL score, turn to 2go. If the totalis
greater than your SKILL score, tum fo 154.

5
in the confined space of the stone mouth, you
manage to keep vour balance. Turn to §,

246-248

246

As soon as you open the door, you are met by a blast
of warm air. Fora second you think itis a trap, until
you see a huge fire buming under a simmering
cauldron in the centre of the small room. An old
woman is dropping rats, slugs, maggots and cen-
tpedes into the cauldron and appears ta be en-
joying herself. If you wish to enter the room, turn to
136. If you would rather close the door and continue
alons the finnel, turn to 346.

247
The ravening chaos champion is a natural fighting-
machine, trained since birth to kill’ His battle-cry
echoes down the tunnel as he works himself up inta
a frenzy for combat.

CHTAOSCHAMPION 9 SKILL Ii STAMINA 12

f vou win, turn to 180.

248
The Trialmaster reacts quickly and blocks your
thrusting pole. Sweat breaks out on his forehead as
the Triaimaster realizes that you are a better lighter
than he originally thought. Making the mostof your
psychological advantage, you step forward to strike
again. If you wish to execute a body blow, burn ta
320. If you wish to make an overhead strike, turn to

355.
249-253

a5
The old wizard smiles and says; Well done! And

now the next three, please If you know the second
sequence of numbers, turn to that reference. If you
do not know’ il, turn lo 286.

250
The weight of the rocks is steadily weakening you,
and when you next jump the burning coals, you
twist your ankle on landing and fall over into the
sand, You watch the others race ahead as you pick
yourself up, They are more than half a circuit ahead
by the time you limp after them, trying to catch
them up. Roll one die. [f the number rolled is s-s,
turn to 86. If the number rolled is 6, him to 202,

251
There is an archway in the left-hand wall through
which you see a brass bell mounted on the wall at
the end of'a narrow corridor. If you wish to ring the
bell, firm to go. If you would rather continue
straight on, turn to 333.

252-253

252

The room has long been abandoned to the Cold-
clasy, whose cave opens into it. The few pieces of
furniture that are left are broken and scattered about
the room, and a thick layer of grey dust covers
everything. In a pile of rubble in a corner of the
room, you find an ‘old clay pot with a wax-sealed
top. Will you:

Break open the pot? Turn lo 115
Walk into the cave? Tum ta 307
Leave the room and walk on up
the tunnel? Tum to 150
253

Your leg is not only bleeding and painful, but also
broken. Lose 4 5x11. points. Once again the wild
axe rises up and swings down, but thankfully it
embeds itself in the wooden block. You are able to
let go of the handle and tend your broken leg as best
you can. Luckily it is only fractured and you cuta
splint from the wooden block and bind it to your leg,
Although you are now at a considerable disadvan-
tage, you will be able to continue. If you wish to cut
the rope with your sword, turn to 149. If vou would
rather limp along the tunnel, turn to 388.
- 254-257

254
Try as hard as you might, you are unable to free
yourself from the sticky strands of the tough web.
Again the spider bites you. Lose 25TA MINA points.
Roll two dice. If the tetal is the same as or less than
YOUL SKILL score, turn to 108. Lf the total is greater
than your SkILt score, turn to 293.

255
You curse as your net once again floats harmlessly
to the ground. Lose a LUCK point. Roll two dice. lf
the totalis the same as or less than your Sx!Lt_score,
turn to 66. If the total is greater than your SKILL
score, turn to 334.

256
The old man attempts a backward somersaull to
escape, but lands awkwardly. Seizing your oppor-
tunity, you follow through with a lunge to his nbs.
You find your target and shout for joy. You have
scored a surprising victory against the skilful Inal-
master, Turn to 362.

257
Pulling down on the lever does not halt the steady
movement of the walls dosing in. You try pulling
down on another lever, but they are all locked in
position, You try wedging your sword between the
walls, but it quickly snaps, and moments later you
are crushed to death.

258-260

255
The humanoid disappears around a corner, and by
the time vou tum the right-hand bend he is no-
where to be seen. You carry on down the tunnel
until you come toa doorin the left-hand wall. IFyou
wish to open the door, turn to 353. If you do not
wish to stop, turn to 233.

259
The horn you are blowing is used by Xoroa to warn
one another that danger is approaching. Four more
Xoroa come scurrying into the chamber armed with
short spears and javelins. They clase in to avenge
the fallen warrior.

SKILL STAMINA

First XOROA WARRIOR Lo 10
Second XOROA WARRIOR 9 11
Third XOROA WARRIOR Ts) iI
Fourth XOROA WARRIOR a8) 10

if you somehow manage to defeatall the Xoroa, tum
tO 14.

260

You uncork the phial and swallow the contents
down in one. Your body immediately stops shaking
as the potson is quickly neutralized. When you feel
well enough to continue, you walk back along the
pessagewar until rou come to the hole in the floor.
You lower yourself down through the hole and clrop
to the floor of the fmnel below. Turn to 315.
261

261
As the southerner drops to his knees clutching his
stomach, he manages to utter a few words with his
clying breath. ‘Goad luck in the dungeon, stranger.
But if you gel a chance ta be alone with Camuss,
remember those of us who died in his arena.” The
southemer grimaces with pain and falls silent. You
vow to yourself thal you will avenge your feliow
slaves’ deaths, and kill Lord Carnuss if you survive
the deadly labyrinth of Fang. That night vou are the
honoured guest of Lord Carnuss and indulge your
self in yout every whim, You gorge yourself on
delicious food and enjoy yourself long into the
night. Aftera week of luxurious living, youretum to
full fitness. Restore your STAMIN A score to its duis
total. Then, locked in chains, you sei sail with Lord
Carnuss and thirty of his guards, and ten days later
arrive in Fang, the venue for the annual Trial of
Champions, The town is swarming with people
intrigued by the trial and eager to celebrate. How-
ever, there is no time for you to enjoy the hospitality
of Baron Sukumvit, as it is late in the evening of 30
April and the trial begins at dawn the next day. You
spend the night in a tavern under the watchful eves
of the guards, and at dawn are ted to the entrance of
the deadly Jabyrinth. It is supported by omately
carved stone pillars depicting demons, deities and
writhing serpents. You see Baron Sukumvitshaking
the hands of the other contestants — a chaos cham-
pion wearing dark spiked armour, an caslern war-
lord in full battle costume, an elven prince and 2
dwarf noble. This year the prize has attracted illust-

2m

rious contenders, You take your place alongside
them, and are then asked to draw a bamboo stick
from the hand of the Baron. The number 2 is etched
on the stick: you are to enter the dungeon second,
after the dwarf. To the cheers of the exultant anlaok-
21s, you pass between the pillars, armed only witha
inaymificent sword given to you by Lord Carnuss.
Without a backpack, food or armour, you {eel ill-
prepared for the coming ordeal, but at least you
have this fine stword, and a leather pouch at vour
belt. The sound of the crowd quickly dies away as
you walk on down the dimly lit tunnel. What hor-
rors lic before you, it is impossible ta imagine, but
you know that Baron Sukumyit has spent the last
year modifying his deathtrap dungeon so that it is
now reputedly lethal beyond comprehension. But
your desire to avenge the deaths of your fellow
slaves makes you determined to succeed, ‘The tun-
nel leads straight ahead for fifty metres, and then
you come to a dooryay in the left-hand wall with a
‘Keep Out’ sign written on it in died blend. You
hear scratching and sniffing sounds coming from
the other side of the door If you wish to draw your
sword and open the door, tum to 374, IF you would
rether keep walking down the tunnel, turn-to 82.

262-264

262
Once again you pick up the lamp. Hoping for some-
thing wondrous to happen, you rub it vigorously.
Nothing happens, but you hear something rattle
inside. You take off the lid and find a gold ring
inside. You drop it in your pouch, leave the roam,
and walk on along the tunnel. Turn to 209.

263
The passageway continues to twist and tum
through total darkness. At last you see light shining
up through a hole in the floor. Standing over the
hole, you see that there is a much wider tunnel
beneath you, If you wish t jump down to the
tunnel below, turn to 315. Lf you wish to keep
feeling your way along the dark passage, turn to

264
You tie one end of the rope around an outcrop
overhanging the pit. Gripping the rope firmly, you
slide over the edge and then ease yourself down the
pit until you reach the bottom. Anew tunnel leads
away from the pit, somewhat narrower than the
tunnel above. If you wish to follow the new tunnel,
leaving your rape behind, turn to 190. H you would
rather climb back up the rope, retmeve it, and walk
back along the tunnel past the T-junction, turn to

351.

265-267

265
With a terrified grimace frozen on your face, vou
watch helplessly as the Bone Devil's dismembered
hand appears to reach inside your chest. Death is
mstantaneous as your heart is plucked out for the
Demon to gorge itself upon.

266
You have escaped from one prison to another.
There is no exit from the room, and all you can do
now is think about what might have happened had
you chosen another route. The deadly dungeon’s
traps have claimed another challenger.

267

The Tralmaster tries to press home his advantage in
attack against your continued defence. He leaps in
the air in a do-or-die aerial attack. You thrust your
pole upwards ina desperate attempt to strike him as
he fands on top ef you. Roll two dice. If the total is
the same as or less than your SKIl.1 score, turn to
140. If the totalis greater than your SKILL score, tum
to 274.
268-271

265
With incredible dexterity you dive at the Bane-
crusher's leg, cutting your sword through the ain
Your fifth blow severs the tendons behind tts nght
knee and the Bonecnusher crashes helplessly to the
graund. Panting heavily with fatigue and rehef, you
are taken back to your cell. Turn to i143.

269
The wild axe swings down again and this time i
sinks into your leg. Lose 2STAMINA points and Test
your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 172. Hf you are
Unlucky, arn to 253.

270
Gripping vour sword with both hands, you step
forward to attack the monster.

GIANT CENTIPEDE

If you win, humm to 2.

SKILLQ  STAMINATZ

274
You land on the steps without injuring yourself and
jump up to rejoin the fight against the hideous
tongue. Turn to 8.

272-274

272

in a dark recess in the cave, you find a large skull
which has been painted gold. The eye-sockets and
nose holes have been sealed, as has the mouth. A
section of the top of the skull has been cut off,
replaced and painted over. If you wish to liffthe top
of the skull, tum to 25. If you would rather leave
the cave and continue your walk along the tunnel,
turn to 750.

273
At the moment, the potion is harmful to your
health. Lose g STAMINA points. Finding no other
exit from the room, vou walk back down the tunnel
and on past the T-junction. Turn to 232.

274
The leaping Tralmaster deflects your pole with his
feel and strikes vou on the head with his own pole.
You groan in defeat and realize that all ts lost. Turn

to 72.
275-276

275
A guard opens the door to the arena and you step

out on to the hot sand, which is now stained red
with the bleod of fallen combatants. Suddenly
another door in the arena wall opens and out
steps the dreaded Bonecrusher beast, its tough,
leathery skin glistening in the sun. Its ugly head is
small and houses two narrow, near-blind eyes, a flat
nose and tendrils hanging over its taut mouth. lts
torso, however, is massive, and its long arms are
dauntingly powerful. If you are to fight it with a
broadssord and shield, turn to 56. If you are to fight
it with a fident and net, turn to 175,

276
You run as fast as you can down the tunnel and leap
across the black void. But you fall well short of the
other side of the pit and plummet to your death
some twenty metres below. Unseen mouths make
light syork of your broken body.

277-279 280-282

277 280
You slump against a wall, exhausted after the fierce the arrow just catches the fleshy part of your shoul-
combat. The gauntlet's power is gone with the | der. Lose 1 STAMINA point. It is not much more
death of the Liche Queen and you are able to pull it than a graze, which you quickly tend before con-

off and cast it aside. But the traumatic experience

hnuing along the himnel. Turn to 398.
has left its mark: lose 1 SKILL point. When your

limbs finally stop trembling, you walk over to where 281

the Tiche Queen is lying and notice that she is Luckily the door is not locked and you are able to
wearing a gold ring on one of her bony fingers. You slam it behind you. The suit of armour hammers
prise it off and drop it mto your leather pouch. repeatedly on the door, but with no intelligence, it
Slowly you walk to the door and deade which wav does nat think to turn the handle. You tum around
ty head. If you wish to go right, turn to 285. lf you | and are surprised at what you see in the next room.
wish to go left past the 1 juncton, turn to 227- Tum to 3-

278

Lhe Trialmaster tells you tu place the rings on top of
the bench. Turn to 367.

279

‘The cave opens out, butis still quite small. There is
strong musty smell in the air, and the granting
sound appears to be coming from behind a rocky
gutcrop at the back of the cave. An ugly creature
suddenly steps into view, ils small humanoid body

covered sith hair. lts head resembles that of a boar, 282

with two curved tusks protruding from ils mouth. You finda gold ring wrapped up ina dirty rag inside
Armed with a stone club, it is obvious that the the box. You drop the ring into your leather pouch
advancing Tusker is not an ally. and walk on up the tunnel. Tu mito 44.

TUSKER SKILL6 STAMINAS

Once again you are fighting for your life. If you win.
hurn te 339.
283-285

283
With a sickening cninch, the spiked ball thuds into
your skull, killing you before you slump into the
sand. The Arena of Death claims another victim.

284
You stand up groaning, and rub your bruised limbs
before climbing back up the steps. Once again, you
leap over the red steps, only this time with more
effort. By the time vou reach the tap of the steps,
you are quite out of breath. Turn to 141.

255
Ahead in the hmnel, you see a wooden chest
against the wall. You inspect it closely, but do not
find any signs of a irap, If you wish to open the
chest, tum to 194. If vou would rather keep on
walking, turn to 47-

Fine white strands of silk-like fibres suddenly
sprout from the throne and begin to envelop you.
They are so strong that you cannot move a muscle,
and are soon encased, like being inside a giant
cocoon. Terror grips you as you hear the wizard say
soodbye. Perhaps in future years other challengers
will find your mummified remains.

287
You soon reach 2 door in the left-hand wall of the
tunnel. You listen at the door, but hear nothing. If
you wish to open the door, turn to 156, If you wish
to keep walking, tum to 222.

288—290

285

The tunnel soon ends at an iron dootmway. It opens
easily and swings shut behind you. You find your-
self in 2 cross-himnel, and looking left, are shocked
by what you see. With vacant, hollow eves staring
from their sickly white faces, a large group of Zar-
bies is shutiling towards you. Their clothes hang in
rags and therr pallid skin is scarred and peeling. The
door has no handle on this side of it and there are far
toa many Zombies for you to take on. You have no
option but to turn right. You run on ahead of the
Zombies and soon arrive at the edge of a pit which
looks too wide for you to jump across, The Zombies
come into sight and you realize that you are trap-
ped. If you fight the Zombies, turn to 185. If you try
to jump across the pit, turn to 347.

289

As you continue to walk along, you do not see the
rows of poisoned spikes which extend from the end
of the passage wall. Your outstretched hands are
picrced by the sharp tips of the spikes. The poison
works quickly and you feel violently ill. If you
possess a phial of anti-poison, lurn to 87. Ll you do
not have this item, turn to 231.

250
Your throw is periect: the spear plunges deep into
the underbelly of the Giant Centipede. It begins t>
thrash about on the floor, upturned, its tiny legs
waving helplessly in the air. You seize your oppor-
tunity and run salely past it. furn to 391.
291-293

291
You walk along the tunnel for about twenty metres
before stepping on a loose stone. It tilts forward,
triggering a section of the ceiling which falls down
on tap of you. There is no hope of escape fom
under the pile of rubble.

292

You dive at the legs of the guard and send him
crashing to the floor. The soup bowls clatter on the
floor as you wrestle with the suard. Before your
cell-mates have a chance to follow your example,
the other guard runs out of the cell and locks the
door, You realize that your struggle is futile. You
release the guard and stand up to await your
punishment, You are led away and flogged by the
guard you attacked, Lose 4 STAMINA points and 3
Skit. point. Barely conscious, you are dragecd
back to your cell and thrown inside. Your cell-mates
do what they can to dress your twounds before you
are all led away to begin your first day in the Arena
of Death. Turn tu 22.

>

You become weaker and weaker as you struggle to
free yourself. The spider bites you once more before
spinning more web around you and comumencing its
meal.

294-296

294
The veins on the dog’s necks bulge as it strains at its
leash. You close in slowly, trying to guard your
exposed flesh.

TWO-HEADEDDOG — skiti1G  STAMINAS

During each Attack Round, the dog will make two
attacks. Your Attack Strength must exceed the
Attack Strength of both heads to win the Attack
Round. If you win, turn to 217.

295
You fuck two of the dagyers into your belt and bein
to search the room. lt contains two wooden beds, a
sturdy wooden trunk, a crude table and twe chairs.
If you wish to open the trunk, turn to 34. If you
would rather leave the room and continue along the
tunnel, turn [a 2433.

296
The wild axe narrowly misses your legs and be-
comes embedded again in the wooden block. You
release the handle and must swiftly decide what to
do. Ifyou wish tocul the rope with vour sword, tum
to 149- If you would rather walk on, turn to 388.
297-300

297

You step slowly to your left, straining your ears for
the sound of movement. Suddenly there is an ag-
onized cry and a dull thud as a body falls to the
ground not far in front of you. If you wish to step
further to your left, turn to 368. Tf you would rather
stand your graund and swing the ball and chain,
turn £0 132.

298
Your quick thrusting counter catches the Tnalmes-
lerunawares. Your bamboo pele thumps against his
neck and you [ct out a victory cry. You have in-
umphed against the odds over the skilful Trial-
master. Turn t 362.

299
You place the gold ring on the outstretched palm o!
the idol and walk on without indent. Tum to 23-

300
There is nothing else of interest in the room and.
despite your hunger, you refrain from helping your-
self toa bow! of the bubbling brew. li you now wish
to open the wooden box, tim to 124. If you would
rather leave the room and continue along the corz-
dur, turn to 346.

302-303

301
Your left foot catches the tripwire which triggers an
atrow from a hole in the wall. Roll one die, Ifyou rall
r-3, turn to 83. If you roll or 5, turn to3o. Lf you roll
5, turn fn 280.

302

"You pay for your ignorance with vour life,’ comes
the voice from the skeleton. A bolt of energy shouts
out from its finger and slams into your chest, killing
you instantly.

393
Expecting yet another hideous creature to rise up,
you are relieved to see the Fire Demon becume
engulfed in its own flame and turn to ashes, You
walk over to the door, asitis both locked and bolted.
Suddenly the clock starts to tick loudly and the two
bare walls at either end of the room start to close in,

making an unnerving grating sound, Will you:

Call out to the wizard? Turn lo 220
Put the brass hands on the clock
fiiyou have them}? Turn to 84

Pulla lever? Turn tu 48
Sy ae

394
in the distance you hear the sound of running water

and soon the tunnel ends at the edge ofa pit. A rape
bridge straddles the pit and beyond it the tunnel

oe i

“a
a?

Climb down the rope into the pit? Turn to 355

395

You climb the stairs as quictly as possible and come
to a landing. A new tunnel leads from the landing,
which soon ends atan old oak door. There are many
runes and symbols painted on the door, but they
mean nothing tu you. To one side of the door there
is 2 wooden box, which is also made of old oak, IF
you wish to open the door, turn to 43. I you would
rather lift the lid of the box first, turn to 373-

a
393.3 3 continues straight on. There is a wooden box tied to
» 37: 3 =3 = the bridge and a sign above it which reads, ’Pay gold
¥ et Pe =: ‘a cross.” A rope hangs down from the bridge.
EEE 2: Peering down into the gloom of the pit, you can just
tenes, 4d: = make outa fast-flowing river far below, Will you:
pest 3: Drop a gold object into the box and

Id Wh 2 Ve. walk across the bridge? Turn to 27
rl he te Walk across the bridge without

Wh ESR paying? Turn to 152

UP hoe
ri

ei

24

306-308

306
As soon as you step inside the mouth, the hideous
tongue cuils out to ensnare you. But you are ready
for it with your sword.

TONGLE

If you win, turn to 85.

SKILLS STAMINA®S

oF

The Coldclaw’s cave is a aeons Bones litter the
floor, and it is evident that the beast never went
hungry. You look up and sec a shaft of light shining
throuh a hole in-the ceiling high above. But there
does nol appear to be any way of climbing up to the
hole. Perhaps the enemies of Fang were simply
dropped inta the cave to be taken care of by the
Coldulaw. There are some rags and remnants of
clothing on the floor and a few old boots. You find
one pair which are well made and about your size.
Will you:

Try on the boots? Turn 10233
Look for something else? Turn to272
Walk back to the tunnel? Turn toz50

308
You try to block the thrusting pale, bul you react too
slowly. The Trialmaster calls out a victory cry and
you realize that all is lost. Turn to 72.

309-311

399
You drop a handful of nuts and berries into the bag
and watch it disappear through the grille. The little
man smiles and says, “The hunchbackisa liar.’ Then
he disappears, and you are alone again. Wondering
who the hunchback might be, you set off once
again. Turn to 58.

310

As you accelerate, the ogre sticks his leg oul and
tries to trip you. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 78. If you are Uniucky, turn to 225.

312

As soon as you touch the lamp, the idol jerks into
life. It steps down from its marble plinth and walks
towards you, cutting its swords through the air.

IDOL
if you are armed with a magic sword, il will be

possible to slay the idol. If you win, turn to 262. If
you are armed with an ordinary ssvord, turn to 55.

SKILLQ STAMINAG
312-314

312
Your mental ability fails you and you remain frus-
trated by the mimes. They make no sense whatso-
ever. You decide against wasting any more lime on
them and open the door instead: turn to 221.

343

You step on a flagstone which activates the cross-
bow. The bolt flies dawn the narrow tunnel, but
whistles past your left ear, Add 1 1UcK point. You
turn the corner and walk on for another fifty vards
before coming to a door in the nght-hand wall. lf
you wish Lo open the door, turn io 104. If you would
tather keep on walking, turn to 20.

314
The painting is quite ordinary and there are no
hidden compartments in the frame. On the back
there is a label with the words ‘Set three, 27%’
written in black ink. You place the pamiting back on
the wall and walk on. Turn to 228.

3157347,

315
You look swiftly up and down the tunnel, and
suddenly see movement up ahead. Turn to 195.

316
As you lie down in the sand, you hear a shouted
order: “Shoot the coward!’ You panic and try to get
to your feet again, bul two arrows fired by unseen
archers sink into your chest. You slump headlong
into the sand and do not stir again-

317
4s soon as you place the bracelet on your wrist,
your arm feels weak and starts to shake. The
bracelet is cursed, but you are unable to remove it.
Lose 2 SKILL points and 1 1.UckK point. There is
nothing you can do except leave the room and carry
on as best you can. Turn to 379-

318-320

338
The iron door swings open and you enter an ornate
room with a marble floor and rich furnishings. But

eyes immediately light on a decorative marble
e on which sils a woman dressed in a lavish
mn. But ta your horror you see that her face is
almost a skeleial skull, with only remnants af dried
skin hanging loosely from it. Her blood-red eyes fix
‘on you and then the Liche Queen starts to speak
Who Is this foolish mortal who dares lo enter my
chamber? Have you the courage to wear my gaunt-
letof pain, or would you prefer that [kill you where
you stand?’ IFyouagee to wear her gauntlet, rn to
212, If you would rather attack the Liche Queen,
with your sword, tum to363,

39
‘The funnel leas straight for some thirty metres
‘before ending ata woaden door. Ifyou wish to open,
the door, turn to 98. If you would rather walk back.
pact the Tjunction, tusn to.32,

320
The Tsiaimaster anticipates your blow and blocks

nur pole wilh a sideways check. The poles crack
together and your advantage is lost, With renewed
courage, the Ialmaster leaps in the air and tries a
do-or-die aerial assault. You thrust your pole up.
wards in a desperate attempt to strike him as he

ids on top af you, Roll two dice, Ifthe total is the
some as or less than your SxILL score, turn to 149, Tf
the total is greater than your SKILL score, tuzn to
274

52i~325

321

The breastplate fits well and is an excellent piece of
armour. Add 1 s5xin1 point. Satisfied that there =
nothin else of use, you leave the room and con
tinue along the tunnel. Turn to 233-

322
Unfortunately, the rat thal bit you was camming an

advanced form of rabies. Itis nat long before you are
foaming at the mouth and conyulsed with pam. An
agonizing death awaits you.

323
The chaos champion snatches the gold fom your
outstretched hand and then strikes you on the head
with his spiked mace. Lf you are wearing a helmet,
turn to 350. If you are not wearing a helmet, turn to
62.

Just as you get into a good rhythm, your ming
freezes and you stand still instead of ducking. The
long, sharp blade sinks deep into your throat and
you crumple to the arena floor. Another contestant
is eliminated.

345
You are surprised by the speed with which the
Bloodworm’s head darts forward. It manages to
sink its mouth hooks into your thigh to suck your
blood, Lose 2STAMINA points.

BLOODWORM SKILL4 STAMINA6

326-328

You start to hack at the head of the vile creature.
During each Attack Round you willlose2sTAMINA
points automatically, whether or not you win the
Attack Round, due to loss of blood. If you win, turn
to 123.

326

The Bone Devil's skeletal host body is smashed to
pieces by your onslaught. Butits undead spirit rises
out of the skull and disappears through the hole in
the roof. You bend down and examine the broken
fragments of bone and suddenly notice a gold ring
on one of the fingers of the Bone Devil’s hand. You
slip it off the cold bone and drop itinto your pouch.

‘There is no other exit from the cave, so you return to
the tunnel and continue along it, Turn to 150.

327
You clear the three steps with ease and walk up the

remaining ones. Turn to 141-

328
You climb back out on to the edge of the pit and
deade what to do next. Will you:

Drop 2 gold object inta the wooden box

and walk across the bridge? Turn to az
Walk actoss the bridge without

paying? Turn to152
Walk back down the funnel and beyond

the T-junction? Turn to 229
329-331

329

Soon you hear the sound of hoofs clattering along
the stone floor. The sound echoes down the tunnel —
then you see a shape emerging from the gloom.
Seated astride a white skeleton horse is an
zrmoured Skeleton with a crown on its skull: Seeing
you, the Skeleton King kicks ils undead horse inta a
gallop and holds its sword aloft. You must fight the
mounted undead.

SKELETON KING SKILLQ STAMINA 7

Edged weapons like swords and daggers do little
harm to Skeletons. Uniess you have a hammer with
which to fight the Skeleton King, you will only
cause it to lose 1 STAMINA point during a successful
Stack Round. If vou win, turn te 209.

339
There is no escape and you can only ponder what
might have happened had you chosen another
route. The deadly dungeon has claimed ancther
victim.

337

You are almost delirious by the time you uncork the
phial and swallow the contents. But your body
immediately stops shaking as the poison is quickly
néutralized. When you feel well enough to con-
tinue, you walk back along the passageway until
youcome to the holein the floor. You lower yourself
down through the hole and drop to the floor of the
tunnel below, Turn to 315.
3327335

332
You stand back before throwing your full weight

against the door. lt bursts open and you draw your

sword and step into the darkness before you. lum
to 2719,

333
The tunnel ends at a T-junction. Looking left, vow

sec that the way is blocked by a pile of rocks. fo your
nght, vou see a wooden door some twenty metres
down the tunnel. If you wish to investigate the
rack-pile, turn to 96. Lf! you wish to walk towards the
door, turn to 375-

334
You are slow in gathering up your net and the

Bonecrusher manages to grab one of your arms,
breaking it as though il were a twig. Without releas
ing your arm, it grabs your neck and breaks it with
equal ease, Alas, one more candidate is eliminated.

335
It is impossible to avoid the drops of acid falling on
to you. Roll one die to decide the number that hit
you as you run through this section of tunnel,
deducting 1 STAMINA point foreach. At last you see
daylight at the end of the tunnel and nin quickly
towards it. Turn to 188.

336-339

336
The nails holding the boards in place make a loud
creaking noise as you prise the boards away. Test
your F ace If vou are Lucky, tur fo 122, If you are
Unlucky, turn to 76.

37

Stones and debris are picked up and caried along
by the whirlwind. You cling on to the rock wall, but
the force of the wind blows you over. A flying rack
catches you on the side of the head and knocks you
out Lose 2 STAMINA points. When you regain
consciousness, everything is quiet again. You pick
yourself up and set off once more. Turn 195.

335
Your reactions are too slow to save you falling into
the river. You plunge headlong into the torrent and
ate swept away downstream and Be BETS
Your adventure ends ina watery tomb.

339
The Tusker's cave contains few items and the only

thing that you find of interest is a crude pig made pf
red clay. The pig is hollow, and when you shake it
something rattles inside. If you wish to break the pig
open, turn to 75. ifvou would rather leave the cave,
turn to 167.

349-344

34°

You crawl through the hole and find yourself in a
small dark chamber. The noise you heard was the
sound of the strange creatures which inhabit the
network of chambers. With the head and torso of a
man and the lower body and legs of a giant ant, the
Aoroa live in large underground colonies. You have
disturbed 2 Xoroa Warrior which, with its keen
silver eyes and acute sense of hearing, locates you
immediately. Grabbing a short spear, it moves
quickly through the dark to allack.

XOROA WARRIOR SKILLIO STAMINA Ti

Reduce your skint durng this combat only by 1
point because of your disadvantage in the dark. If
ypu win, furn to 170.

341
You quickly rummage through the pockets of the
orc suard and find some small plass balls. You place
them in your belt pouch and carry on levering off
the wooden boards. At last the final board comes
free and you are able to open the door, Turn to 13,

342
Despite the extra weight, you clear the three steps
and land on the next safely. By the time you reach
the top of the steps, vou are quite out of breath.
Turn to 142:
343-346

343
The Bonecrusher manages to grab your sword-erm
‘and break it as though it were a Gwig. Without
releasing your arm, it grabs your neck with its other
arm. It snaps your neck with similar ease — and the
arena eliminates another candidate.

34
You have all your wits ahout you and are rewarded

by suddenly understanding one of the runes. It
reads ‘Trust not the word of axe.” You memorize the
rune and open the door. Turn to 222.

345
The Trialmaster tells you to place the rings on top of
the bench, If you have nine rings, turn to 35. If vou
have cleven rings, turn to 392.

346
You 500n come to another doorway in the right-
hand wall. Nailed to the door is a small bird, long
dead and shrivelled. If you wish to open the door,
turn to §9. If you would rather continue along the
tunnel, turn to 150,

347-348

347
You run as fast as you can towards the pit and hurl
yourself across the black void. If you are wearing a
winged helmet, turn to 114. IF you are notwearing a
heimet, turn to 226.

348

You cut the tiny man free from the web and stand
back warily in case he tries to trick you. But he
simply bows and says, “Thank you, stranger. I,
Billybob of the Little People, am for ever grateful to
you. Our tribe has been living under this mountain
for generations, but we are forced to scavenge what
we can now that our tunnels have heen taken over
by these dreadful monsters. Ihe sooner they are
killed by the likes of you, the better. As a reward for
saving my life, | give you what I found in a scor-
pion’s nest.” Billybob drops a gold ring into the palm
of your hand. ‘Before I go, I shall give you some
advice: don’t drink at the fountains. Now I must be
going; I’m late enough as it is. Goodbye.’ The tiny
man then runs out of the cave and turns left into the
tunnel. Turn to 397-
349-350

349

As you step back, you trip over the body lying im the
sand. Your advancing opponent hears you fall and
moves in for the kill. But he, too, falls over the body
and lands on top of you. Heis heavy and drenched
swith sweat. You start to grapple with him in the
sand, punching with your shield, while trying to
free your other arm to swing the ball and chain.

SLAVE

If you win, turn lo 196.

SKILLQ STAMINAS

35° :

The crushing blow knocks you te the ground and
your vision blurs, Lose 1 SKILL point and 4 sTA™-
INA points. Leaving you for dead, the chaos
champion strides off down the tunnel. You have
difficulty focusing your eves, but you know you
must nol give in, You get to your feet and walk on
up the tunnel. Turn to 44.

351-352

354
After twenty metres of 50, you come toan iron grate
in the floor. If you wish to lift the grate, turn to 74. Lf
you syould rather keep on walking, turn to 174.

352

Your strength is greater than that of the caveman.
With a mighty heave you pull him forward and
watch him fall headlong down the pit. Uneoncerned
by the loss of his servant, the Trialmaster speaks
again. T will now ask you a question. Think care-
fully before answering.” He points at the wooden
chest in the middie of the roomand says, ‘Inside this
chest there are six more chests, and each of those
contains three smaller chests. How many chests are
there aliogether?’ If you know the answer, tum to
the reference with the same number. If you are
wrong or you do not know the answer, turn to 72.
>

”,

A
o

SB LE,

Ted
eee
- ? « . sn <

353-355

353
You burst in on two Ores who are having a dagger-

throwing contest, using as their target a large dead
rat nailed to a post. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 239. If you are Unlucky, turn to 192.

354

The svarlord must have barely escaped with his life
after a previous battle, as his body is deeply gashed
by claws, and he has no possessions with him ather
than his sword, You decide to leave him and walk
back down the tunnel, but you bump into an in-
visible and immovable barrier. You have triggered
another trap, and there appears to be no wey of
escape. If you possess a phial of red dust, turn to
238. If you are not carrying this item, turn to 339.

355
Your feet find a ledge protruding out over the river.

You release the rope, walk along the ledge and find
that it leads to a completely black cave mouth.
Suddenly two bony arms shoot out of the darkness
and try to push you off the ledge into the river. Roll
two dice. if the total is the same as or less than your
SKILt score, turn t 100. If the total is higher than
your SKILL score, turn to 338,
356-358

356
You fail to cut yourself free and are dragged under
the surface, You do not hear the Siren’s song under
the water and regain control of your mind. With
sudden determination, you struggle against the
tentacled monster.

TENTALLUS SKILLS

Unless you win at Jeast one Attack Round in every
three, you will drown. If you win, tum to 236,

STAMINA I=

357
You stand back before throwing your full weight

against the door, It bursts open, but you jar your
shoulder in the process. Lose 1 skiLi point. You
draw your sword and step into the darkness before
you. Turn to 219.

358
‘You must have made a thorough search of the

dungeon. Baron Sukumvit swore that nobody
would be able to do this. Anyway, the last three,
please.’ If you know the last sequence of numbers,
tum fo that reference. If vou do not know it, turn to
286.

359

359

You are suon up to your swaist in slime, and brielly it
reaches up to yourneck. But slowly the ground rises
and you pass beyond what is actually a pool of
volcanic mud. The mineral-nch mud has fabulous
healing properties. Add 5 STAMINA points and 1
Skitt poimt. Eventually the passage apens out into
a chamber which is lit by glowing rocks. You see
that the passage runs through the chamber and out
through the back wall. In the centre of the room
there isan elephant, nearly a metre high, carved out
of soapstone. Under its belly, you see the hairline
crack of a hidden compartment, but cannot see how
to open it. Then you see another crack half-way
#long the elephant's trunk, and deduce that, if the
trunk is pulled, the compartment might spring
open. If you wish to pull the clephant’s trunk, turn
to 60. If rou would rather follow the passageway,
turn t&) 263-

360-361

360

The northman increases his lead over the rest of
you, but you feel you still have a lot in reserve
should he come close to lapping the pack. When he
gets within ten metres of catching up, everybody
decides ta sprint. There are only Gyo runners ahead
of you, but you do not look back. Suddenly there is
an agonized cry followed by a shout which calls an
end to the race. [he diwwarl lies prostrate in the sand,
having collapsed just as the northman caught up
with him. While you are ted back to your cells, the
dwarf is quickly put ta death before the start of the
next race. Turn to 136.

361
The tunnel continues straight on for some thirty
metres before turning to the left. As you turn the
corner, you do not see the fine tipwire that
stretches betiveen the swalls. Test your Luck, Lf you
are Lucky, turn tu 164. If you are Unlucky, turn to
301,

362-363

362

the Trialmaster stands back, panting heavily. Once
he has caught his breath again he says, “You have
passed the third test. You may now continue your
walk through the dungeon. Leave this room
through the door behind me.’ The old man offers
you no words of advice or encouragement, so you
leave his room. You open the doorand pass through
the squalid sleeping-area of the caveman into
another long, gloomy funnel. You soon come to a
stone fountain in the shape of a leaping fish- If you
wish to drink at the fountain, turn to 95. If you
would rather continue walking, turn ta 329.

6
As you draw your mag ea step towards her, the
Liche Queen presses an unseen panel in her throne.
The floor suddenly gives way beneath your feet and
you plunge headlong down a pit five metres deep.
Test your Luck. Uf you are Lucky, turn to 216. If you
are Uniucky, turn t 54-
364-366
364

At the bottom of the steps there is a large cave,
which is partly submerged in gently bubbling
water. Steam rises into the cold air and you see a
tunnel exit in the far wall. Sitting on a rock in the
middle of the underground lake is a beautiful
woman singing a magical song. She is a Siren, one of
a human-like race of evil seductresses. Her song is
to lure you to her so that she can slay you with her
long knife as a sacrifice to her gods. Roll one die. Lf
you roll 3 or 2, turn to 103. If you roll 3-6, turn to
203-

365
You are almost delirious as the poison courses
through your body and you grab the first phial that
your fingers touch. Roll one die. Lf you roll 1-3, turn
to 151. If you roll 4~—6, turn to 260.

366
You gorge yourself on the tasty vegetables and rice
until you can eat no more. Add 4 STAMINA points.
You wipe your mouth with the back of your hand
and continue along the tunnel. Turn to 47.
367-368

367

You empty your pouch on to the bench and count
the gold rings. The old wizard fowns and says, I'm
afraic that you do not have the right number. There
is only one svay to deal with losers, as decreed by
Baron Sukumvit.” Before you can draw your sworn.
a lightning bolt shoots out from the wizard’s out-
stretched finger and slams into your chest. So near,
and yet so far, . . you have failed the ultimate tral

You walk slowly on and then stop to listen agam-
You hear nothing, and decide to walk in the oppo-
site direction. Tes! your Luck. If you are Lucky, tum
to 166. If you are U nlucky, tum tp 73.

369

369

‘The three things Fam instructed to test you in are
strength, intelligence and fighting abihty. Should
you fail any of these tests, you will not be allowed to
continue the Tnal of Champions. We insist on a
worthy winner. The first test will be a tug-of-war
against a caveman.” A door behind the Trialmaster
opens, and a huge man with long hair, dressed in
rassed furs, stides into the room. The Trialmuster
taps the Hoor in front of him with his pole and the
tloor drops away to reveal a dark pit. He then orders
the caveman to fetch a thick rope from the cup-
board. He gives you the enc of the rope and tells
you to take the strain with the rope pulled taut over
the pit. He counts to three and then shouts, 'Heavel’
The caverman’s strength is incredible and you grt
your tecth and pullas hard as you can. Phecaveman
has sxiie 7. Resolve the tug-of-waras you would in
normal combat, but do not reduce STAMINA, as no
wounds are inflicted. Make a note of who.wins each
Attack Round. If you are first to win four Attack
Rounds, turn to 352. If the caveman is first to sin
tour Attack Rounds, turn to 99.

370-371

70
Keeping your head down, you run through the
archway as fast as you can. If you are wearing 2
purple cloak, turn to 16. If vou are nol wearing a
cloak, turn to 101.

"You are a wise challenger,’ the voice from the
skeleton states without emotion. ‘Your reward for
passing this part of the tes! is in the drawer of the
table.” The skeleton’s mouth remains open, but
no more sound issues from it. You look around
the dark room and soon find a small table with =
draiver. Carefully you slide the drawer open and
find a small iron key inside. You drop it into the
pouch on your belt, leave the room and continue
along the tunnel. Turn to 45.

372
Each one of the three red steps emits a flow of
healing vibration. Add 3 sramiNa points. With
renewed energy, you bound up the remaining
Steps. Turn to 142-

373
The box contains a coil of strong rope. Hoping that it
might prove useful later on, you slingit around your
shoulders. There is also a hammer, which you stick
in your belt, and a small phial of colourless liquic
labelled ‘“Anti-poison’. Pleased with your finds, you
open the door. Turn to 43-

374-376

374
The door opens easily and you slep into a small
room. Before vou have ime to look around, a huge
black Hellhound leaps at you with flame shooting
out from its cavernous mouth. You must ficht this
savage beast to the death.

HELLHOUND SKILL? STAMINA6

After each Attack Round roll one die. On a roll of 1
or2, deduct 1 additional stamina point from your
score as a4 result of being burnt by the Hellhound's
flame. If you win, tum to 52.

375
From the other side of the door, you hear the

agonized cry of a man in pain- If you wish to open
the door, turn to 168. If you would rather keep on
walking, turn to 138.

376

The floor of the room suddenly jolts, and then starts
to drop. ft grinds slowly down until you see that you
have been lowered into anotherroom. You jump off
and watch as the section rises aysain, and rejoins the
ceiling. The room is empty except fora large bow! of
exotic-looking fruit standing on a marble plinth. If
you wish to eat some of the fruit, turn to 97. lf you
would rather open the only door in the room, turn
i) 163.
377-380

377
When you pull down the lever, the front panel of

the long-case clock swings open to reveal a secret
passageway oul of the room through the back of the
clock. You just manaye to squeeze through the open
panel, and moments later you hear the sound of
splintering wood as the clock is cnished between
the closing walls. You follow the winding passage
way until it ends at a T-junction where it meets a
main tunnel, lf you wish to go left, turn to 232. you
wish to go right, turn te 319.

378
You follow the tunnel around a right-hand bend
until it ends at a wooden door. You have no choice
but te open it and are surprised by what you see
inside the room. Turn to 3.

The tunnel continues straightahead untilit ends ata
T-junction. Hf you wish to turn left, turn to 262. If
you wish to tum right, turn to 251.

380
Ttis your sword-arm which is deeply gashed. Lose z
SKILL point and 2 STAMINA points. If you wish to
stay where you are and continue swinging your ball
and chain, turn to 159. If you wish to step to your
left, turn to 120,

381-385

381
The Troll is so engrossed with punching the wall
thal you are able to slip past it unnoticed. Keepiny:
close to the wall, you walk quietly on up the tunnel.
Turn to 222.

382
The crossbow bolt enters vour chest and pierces
Four heart. You are dead before you hit the ground.

383
Your dagger somehow finds its way between the
plates of armour and pierces your adversary's
shoulder. The ravening chaos champivun is a natural
ashting-machine, trained since birth to kill, and
ignores his injury in his lust for cornbat.

CHAOSCHAMPION Skiit4

If you win, turn to 180.

STAMINA IO

3 5
The Bone Devil paralyses you with fear, and you
feel unable to move as itapproaches you with ugly,
jerky steps. Koll three dice, If the totalis the same as
or less than your SKILE score, turn to 29. If the total
is greater than your SKILL score, turn to 265,

385
The Trialmaster does not expect another blaw ta his
head and wrongly keeps his pole low. Your pole
thumps against his head and you Ict out a victory
cry. You have tiumphed against the adds in ritual
combat. Turn to 362.
386-387

386

The door opens into a lavishly furnished chamber.
Splendid objects are all around, but your eyes are
transiixed by an open treasure-chest in the middle
ofa raised platform at the back of the chamber, Solid
gold statues of eagles are sect at the four comers of
the marble steps that lead up to the platform, The
treasure-chest is brimming over with diamonds,
gold objects and countless gems, You climb the
steps, bul as soon as you reach out te touch the
treasure, the ifhision shatters and you see that you
are not touching gold and precious stones at all, but
the open jaws of the terrible Mind Warp Beast. This
gruesome Killer, which has the ability to create a
perfect illusion, is now revealed as a gigantic green
mouth with rows of needie-sharp tecth. The jaws
snap shut, almost severing you m byo. Its second
bite is more successful.

Your opponent's spiked ball finds its mark—the side
of your head. You drop to the ground senseless and
never move again. Your ordeal in the arena is over.
388-390

Walking along, you are surprised to hear a squeaky
voice above you shout, “Hello!” You look up and see
a small face staring down at you from a grille in the
ceiling. ‘I'm hungry’ the little man says. “Give me
some food and I'll tell you a thing or fro about
somebody you're bound lo meet.’ He drops a cotton
bag down on a piece of string in hopeful anficpa-
tion. If you wish to give the little man same nuts and
berries, turn to 309. If you sould rather walk on
without giving away your precious food, turn to 58.

3
You are fortunate that the rat which bit you was not
rabid. You pull the vile rodent from your leg and
hack atit with your sword. Turn to 146 and continue
the fight.

399

Pressing yourself against the tunnel wall, you step
slowly and carclully under the spears. You are soon
beyond them and conclude that they must have
been placed there as 2 deterrent. You reach up end
are just able to touch the tip of a spear. If you wish to
try to pull a spear out of its recess, turn lo 110- Ifyou
would rather keep walking, tum to 5.

391-393

391
You peer into the gloom of the Centipede’s cave.
The walls are wet and slimy, and you cannot see
very far_ If you wish to enter the cave, turn to 8g. If
you would rather keep walking along the tunnel,
turn to 162-

392
The Trialmaster does not wait to count the rings. ln
a cold voice he says, There is only one way to deal
with liars.’ Before you can draw your sword, a
ightning bolt shawts out from the wizard‘s out-
stretched finger and slams into your chest. So near
and yet so far. . - you have failed the ultimate trial.

393
Fortunately it is your shield-arm which has been

gashed. Lose2sTaMuna points. If you wish to stay
where you are and continue swinging your ball and
chain, turn to 159- If you wish to step to your left,
turn [0 £20.
394-395

The torchlight casts eerie shadows inside the dere-
lict tunnel, but you are concerned only with the
words and numbers on the back of the door. In
barely lesible writing you read, “Set onc, 249". You
make a mental note of what you read and then walk
out through the door towards the door on the other
side of the I-junction. Tum to 375.

eames Boe eee ae PS Pee
ra i : p/ bs eS =>
7 —— ‘ “4
hip m as <=
Ome fe ’ \ (ae
z a a + =
a iS iY =
rete a wae xs KE
4 aah |, pf Mi A
5. Te oe 4 ea
=, frr) f iv | ! Ow
Setort | i “ne > fe
395

The fruit is delicious and satisfying. Add 2 sTAM-
INA points. When you have eaten enough, rou
walk back into the tunnel and continue up it. Turn
to 20,

395-397

396
Like a caged lion, you pace between the bats, get-
ting angrier and angrier. But you are trapped and
there is no escape. Minutes later, you heara hissing
sound overhead as poisonous gas is released into
the air to end your challenge.

397
The funnel soon ends at a stone staircase. Candles

held in open skulls are mounted on the banister to
ight the way. The stairs lead both up and down. If
you wish to climb up the stairs, turn ta 305. If you
would rather go down, turn to 93.
398-399
398

In an arched recess in the left-hand wall, you see a
large bronze idol of a dog-headed human deity. Its
hands are held out palms upward and there is an
insenption below the idol which reads, ‘A gift of
gold will let vou pass, unless you want death by
gas.” You notice that the nostrils of the dog-head are
open. If you can, and wish to place a gold item on
the palm of the idol’s hand, turn to 299. Ifyou would
rather risk walking past it, turn to 193.

399
Fortunately for you, your nightmare ends when

another of the contestants enters the witch's room
and opens the wooden box. Light fills your eyes and
your body feels as though itis expanding. You find
yourself standing ina very small empty room. There
is 2 lever in the wall which can be pushed up or
pulled down. H you wish to push the lever up, turn
to 242. If you wish to pull the lever down, turn lo

378.
400

400

To the wild cheering of the crowd, you are handed
your victory prize by Baron Sukumvit. Such a huge
sum of money is more than you could ever dream
of, let alone carry. For the next week, you Tecover
from the ordeal and begin to enjoy yourself once
again. You start to think about what you are going to
du with all the money. A wild idea crosses your
mind to hire an army and conquer the unknown
fancls to the east of Moonstone Hills. The more rou
think aboutit, the more the idea appeals to you. The
next day you begin your preparations and recruil-
ment notices go up all aver town and throughout
the rest of the province. With new heart and high
spirits, you set off east a week later with your hired
army to begin a new adventure.

Also in Pufin

Steve facksom's
SORCERY!

1. THE SHAMELTANTI IILLs

Your search for the legendary Crown nf Kings takes you to
the Shumutenti Hills. Alive vith evil creatures, lawless
waondetets and bloodthirsty monslers, the land i4 addled
with Licks and traps waiting for the unwary traveller, Will
you be abhe to cross the hills safely and proceed to the
sxxond part of the edventure — or will yuu perish in the
attempt?

2: KNARE — CITYPORT OF TRAYS

As water relying on force ot arms, or a wizard trained in
Trmgic, you must brave the terror of a city built to trap the
unwery. You will need all yuur wits about you lo survive
the unimaginable horrors ahead and lo make sense uf the
cines which stay lead to pour success — or to your doom!

3. THE SEVEN SERPENTS

Seven deadly and magical serpents speed ahead uf yuu to
yam the evil Archinage of your coming. Will you be able to
catch them before they get there?

4° THE CROWN OF KINGS

Atthe end of vour long trek, you face the unknayn terrers
of the Mampang Portress, [lidden inside the keep is the
Crown of Kings — the ultimate gual of the Surzeruf epic, But
Beware! Fur if yes have not deteated the Seven Sezpents,
your arrival has been anticipeled . ..

Complete with all the magical spells you will need,
cach book can be played either on its own or as part
of the whole epic.
THE CRETAN CHRONICLES

RLOODFEUD OF ALTHEUS
AT THE COURT UF KINC MINOS
RETURN OF THE WANDERER

Jokn Butterfield, David Honigmenn, Philip Parker

Sel in the mythulogical world of Andent Greece, this
7 book epic brings an exciting histurics! dimension to
Adventure Gamebooks. YOU are Altheus, sent tu avenge
the death uf Theseus, vour cldcr brother, whose body lies
trapped in the labyrinth of King Minos. The combet system
has been extended to incurporste the concepts of honour

and shame,

Fantasy Questiioaks ~ 32 pages, full colour

THE PATH OF PERIL
David Fickling and Perry Hinton
Hiustrated by Rachel Birkett

The femeus explorer, Pdrnund Mallory, has been foully
murdeted, and the legendary Bloodstone, which he
acquired under miystezious circumsatences on his last
travels. is missing. All that remains are the scattered frag-
ments of the explorer’s diary, his personal notebook and
most of the cunternts of his rensacked study. An almost
unsilvabie mystery. Yet it scems that the explorer himself
expected lo meet a violent end and prepared the way for
YOU ‘to treck down his murderer and recover the Blood-
stone. Unfortunately the clues hetaid have beert sceltered
in the tormuil of his terble death. All the information you
necd ts here, ingeniously hidden in both lext and pictures,
and each strand of the mystery unravels ti revel the next.
Are YOU sharp enough to crack it?

STARFLIGHT ZERO
David Fiekting and Perry Hinton
Mustrated by Peter Andrew Jones

One by une the Free Planets have fallen to the relentless
advance of the Dark Ships until only Caldoran and Palonar
remain. Then 2 last, despairing message comes frum Palu-
nar and Caldoran is on its own. It scems that the invaders,
armed with the power of the invincible Black Light, will
s00n compact the last outpost of resistance, The only hope
tor the survival of Caldoran is one last desperate mission by
2 small group of star fighters tu strike at the source of the
Black Light. And YOU are part of the mission.
