= wae

FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS

Over 10 million copies sold worldwide!
°

OPUELTUIOD 10GOY Aro OSMOVLaASLS

ee,

=
:
:

N O-14-032152+7
=| | aoo
US, 2:25 |
AUSS. S699
jrememmended)
iz. sue
‘hel, GST)
ot ; 9 "780140°321524

a*J ACKSON “
']

, IVINGSTC
TRIAL OF
CHAMPIONS

PUFFIN BOOKS
ROBOT COMMANDO

You are a rancher in the land of Thalos, Your people —and your
cnemties, the savage Karosseans — have built huge robots for
mahy purposes; mining ore, erecting buildings, moving cargo,
and herding the vicious dinosaurs that live on Thalos.

One morming you discover that all your colleagues have been
overcome by a strange sleeping sickness and you are unable to
rouse them. Then you hear a rumble overhead. In the clear blue
sky you see the unmistakable shape of 4 Karossean robojet! You
realize that the protection of your homeland against the deadly
Karosseans and marauding dinosaurs is up to YOU alone!

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you need to embark on
this thrilling adventure, which is complete with its elaborate
combat system and a score sheet to record your gains and
bosses,

Many dangers lie ahead and your success is by no means
certain. It's up to you to decide which route to follow, which
dangers to risk and which adversaries to fight!

wey Owbw nb

25.
26.

a7

28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33:
34.
35-

Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks

THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP MOUNTAIN
THE CITADEL OF CHAOS

THE FOREST OF DOOM
STARSHIP TRAVELLER

CITY OF THIEVES

DEATHTRAP DUNGEON
ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING
SCORPION SWAMP

CAVERNS OF THE SNOW WITCH
HOUSE OF HELL

TALISMAN OF DEATH

SPACE ASSASSIN

FREEWAY FICHTER

TEMPLE OF TERROR

THE RINGS OF KETIIER

- SEAS OF BLOOD

APPOINTMENT WITH F.E.a.R.
REBEL PLANET

DEMONS OF THE DEEP
SWORD OF THE SAMURAI
TRIAL OP CHAMPIONS

. ROBOT COMMANDO

MASKS OF MAYHEM

. CREATURE OF HAVOC

BENEATH NIGHTMARE CASTLE
CRYPT OF THE SORCERER

. STAR STRIDER

PHANTOMS OF FEAR
MIDNIGHT RQGUE
CHASMS OF MALICE
BATTLEBLADE WARRIOR
SLAVES OF THE ABYSS
SKY LORD

STEALER OF SOULS
DAGGERS OF DARKNESS

Steve Jackson's SORCERY!

i.
2.
3.
4.

TRE SHAMUTANTI HILLS
KHARE - CITYPORT OF TRAPS
THE SEVEN SERPENTS

THE CROWN OF KINGS

FIGHTING FANTASY — The Introductory Role-Playing Game

THE RIDDLING REAVER

| OUT OF THE Pit — Fighting Fantasy Monsters

TITAN — The Fighting Fantasy World

Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone
present:

Steve Jackson
Illustrated by Gary Mayes

Puffin Books
PUFFIN BOOKS
Published by tine Penguin Group
27 Waghts Lane, London w8 stz, England
Viking Penguin tnc., ¢o West 23rd Street, New York, New York 10010, USA
Penguin Books Australia Led, Ringwood, Victoria, Australia
Penguin Books Canada Ltd, 2801 John Strevt, Markham, Ontario, Canada Lya hy
Penguin Books (NZ) Lid, 182-190 Walrae Road, Auckland s0, New Zealand
Penguin Books Lid, Registered Offices: Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England

First pubGshed 1986
Reprinted 1986 (Iwice), 1987, 1988 (twice)

Concept copyright (D> Steve Jackson and lan Livingstone, 1486
Text copyright ©) Stove Jackson, 1986
Iustrathons copyright £) Gary Mayes, 1966
Cover Ulustrations copyright (> David Martin, 1984
All rights reserved

Printed and bound in Greot Britain by
Cox & Wyman Lid, Reading
Faimzt in Linotron Palatino by
Rowland Phototypesetting Led,
Husy St Edmunds, Suffolk

Except in the United States of America,
ths book & sold subject to the condition
shat # shall not, by way of trade of otherwise,
be lent, re-sold, hired out, or otherwise droalated
without the publisher's price consert in any fore of
binding or cower other than that in which it is
published and without a similar comdition
Including this condition being impased
on the subsequent purchaser

Dedicated to my grandparents,
E. B. and Bonnie Lairmore

With special thanks to the playtesters:
Monica Stephens, C. Mara Lee, Jerry Self,
Norman Banduch, Jim Gould, Allen Varney,
Creede and Sharleen Lambard

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION
9
HINTS ON PLAY

ADVENTURE SHEET
BACKGROUND
4
ROBOT COMMANDO
39
INTRODUCTION

To play this game, you will need a pencil, an eraser,
and two ordinary six-sided dice. You will also need
the Adventure Sheet on pp. 22-3. You are advised
either to use a pencil when writing on the Adventure
Sheet, or to make photocopies of these pages to use
in future adventures,

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Before embarking on your adventure, you must first
determine your own strengths and weaknesses.
You must use the dice to determine your Initial
SKILL, STAMINA and LUCK scores, On the Adven-
ture Sheet you will find boxes for recording each of
these three scores,

Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter this
total in the SKILL box on the Adventure Sheet.

Roll both dice. Add 12 to the number rolled and
enter this total in the sramMiNna box on the Adventure
Sheet.

Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter this
total in the LucK box on the Adventure Sheet.

For reasons that will be explained below, SKILL,
STAMINA and LUCK scores change constantly dur-
ing an adventure. You must keep an accurate record

9
of these scores, For this reason, you are advised
either to write small in the boxes or to keep an eraser
handy. But never rub out your Initial scores.
Although you may be awarded additional sK1LL,
STAMINA and LUCK points, these totals may never
exceed your Initial scores unless something specifi-
cally occurs to change your Initial scores.

Your SKILL score represents your general fighting
expertise, both with your own weapons and when
you are piloting a robot. Your sTAMINA score
reflects your general constitution, your will to sur-
vive, your determination and overall fitness. Your
LUCK score indicates how naturally lucky a person
you are. The higher each of these scores, the better!

Robots

If you are familiar with the Fighting Fantasy Game-
book series, you know most of the rules. But robots
will be new to you.

There are many different types of robot, and you
will havea chance to pilot themall. You may use any
robot you find. However, you may have only one
robot at a time! Each robot's abilities are determined
by several scores:

ARMOUR represents the robot's toughness and abil-
ity to take damage. This is like your own STAMINA
score. A robot has an ARMOUR score instead of a
STAMINA score,

SPEED tells how fast a robot can travel. This gives an

10

advantage in combat, A faster robot has a +1 bonus
to its SKILL against a slower opponent. Robots may
be Slow, Medium, Fast, or (for flying robots) Very
Fast. If your robot is slower than the enemy you are
fighting, you may never Escape, even if the page
offers you that option!

COMBAT BONUS: When you use a robot, you fight
with your own SKILL, But some robots are especi-
ally made for battle, and give you a COMBAT BONUS
when you fight. Some robots are especially unsuited
for battle, and you will have to subtract points from
your SKILL!

SPECIAL ABILITIES: These are different for every
robot. When you get a robot with a useful special
ability, you should either make a note of it, or write
down the number of the paragraph that describes
the robot, so that you can double-check if need be.

Possessions

At the beginning of the adventure, your only Pos-
sessions are your sword and five medikits for curing
wounds, As the adventure progresses, you will lose
or use up some Possessions, and gain others, All
Possessions should be recorded in the appropriate
box on the Adventure Sheet.

11

Unless the description of an artefact says specifically
that it must be mounted permanently on a robot,
you may carry all artefacts with you when you leave
a robot.

When you pick up an interesting artefact, you
should make a note of the reference where you
found it, just in case you have to check later to
see exactly what it does. Note also that the mames
and model numbers of artefacts may contain clues,
Always write down the full name and number of
anything you pick up, including robots!

Individual Combat

You will often come across pages in the book which
instruct you to fight a foe of some sort. An option to
flee may be given, but if not — or if you choose to
attack the foe anyway — you must resolve the battle
as described below. This procedure is used when
you, personally, face an opponent. (For battles you
fight while piloting a robot, see below on Robot
Combat.) It is the same system that is used in other
Fighting Fantasy books; you can skip this section if
you are already familiar with the rules.

First, record the foe’s SKILL and STAMINA Scores in
the first vacant Encounter Box on your Adventure
Sheet, The scores for each foe are given in the book
each time you have an encounter,

The sequence of combat is then:

1. Roll both dice once for the foe. Add its skILL
score. This total is the foe’s Attack Strength.

2. Roll both dice once for yourself. Add the number
rolled to your current SKILL score. This total is
your Attack Strength.

3. If your Attack Strength is higher than that of the
foe, you have wounded it. Proceed to step 4. If
the foe’s Attack Strength is higher than yours,
it has wounded you. Proceed to step 5. If both
Attack Strength totals are the same, you have
avoided each other's blows. Start the next
Attack Round from step 1 above.

4. You have wounded the foe, so subtract 2 points -
from its STAMINA score. You may use your
LucK here to do additional damage (see
below).

5. The foe has wounded you, so subtract 2 points
from your own STAMINA score. Again you
may use LUCK at this stage (see below).

6, Make the appropriate adjustments to either the
foe's STAMINA Score or your own (and to your
LUCK score if you used LUCK-— see below).

7. Begin the next Attack Round by returning to step
1. This sequence continues until the sTAMINA
score of either yourself or your foe has been
reduced to zero (death) — or until you Escape.

13

Robot Combat

These are the rules for battling dinosaurs and giant
robots. Whenever you are fighting in your robot —
and whenever the opponent has SKILL, ARMOUR
and SPEED scores instead of just SKILL and STAMI-
na -— then the rules for robot combat must be used.
They are very similar to the normal combat rules, as
follows:

1. Roll both dice once for the foe. Add its skILL
score. Add 1 if the foe is faster than your robot.
This total is the foe’s Attack Strength.

2. Roll both dice once for yourself. Add the number
rolled to your current SKILL score. Add any
COMBAT BONUS that was listed for the robot
you are piloting. Add 1 if your robot is faster
than the foe. This total is your Attack Strength.

. If your Attack Strength is higher than that of the
foe, you have wounded it. Proceed to step 4. If
the foe’s Attack Strength is higher than yours,
it has wounded you, Proceed to step 5. If both
Attack Strength totals are the same, you have
avoided each other's blows. Start the next
Attack Round from step 1 above.

. You have wounded the fae, so subtract 2 points
from its ARMOUR score. You may use your
Luck here to do additional damage (see
below).

. The foe has wounded you, so subtract 2 points
from your own robot's ARMOUR score. Again
you may use LUCKat this stage (see below).

. Make the appropriate adjustments to either the

‘ad

a

wn

o

14

foe’s ARMOUR score or your own robot's
ARMOUR Score (and to your LUCK score if you
used Luck ~ see below),

7. Begin the next Attack Round by returning to step
1. This sequence continues until the ARMOUR
score of either yourself or your foe has been
reduced to zero (see below) — or until you
Escape.

8. If your foe’s ARMOUR is reduced to zero, you
have won. If your own robot’s ARMOUR is
reduced to zero, it has been destroyed. But you
are not necessarily dead, or even injured. You
do not lose any of your own STAMINA unless
the instructions specifically say so. You may
have a chance to survive and continue your
adventure in another robot.

Escaping

On some pages you may be given the option of
running away from a battle should things go badly
for you. However, if you do run away, the foe
automatically gets one wound on you (subtract 2
STAMINA Or ARMOUR points) as you flee. Such is
the price of cowardice. Note that you may use LUCK
on this wound in the normal way (see below). You
may only Escape if that option is specifically given to
you on the page, and if your robot is faster than your
foe.

15

Fighting More Than One Foe

If you come across more than one opponent in a
particular encounter, the instructions on that page
will tell you how to handle the battle. Sometimes
you must fight them all together; sometimes you
will fight each one in turn.

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either in
battles or when you come across situations in which
you could either be lucky or unlucky, you may call
on your LUCK to make the outcome more favour-
able. But beware! Using Ltucx is a risky business,
and if you are unlucky, the results could be dis-
astrous,

The procedure for using your LUCKis as follows: roll
two dice. If the number rolled is equal to or less than
your current LUCK score, you have been Lucky and
the result will go in your favour. If the number
rolled is higher than your current LUCK score, you
have been Unlucky and you will be penalized.

This procedure is known as Testing your Luck. Each
time you Test your Luck, you must subtract 1 point
from your current LucK score. Thus you will soon
realize that the more you rely on your LUCK, the
more risky it will become.

16

Using Luck in Battles

On certain pages of the book you will be told to Test
your Luck and will be told the consequences of your
being Lucky or Unlucky. However, in battles, you
alwys have the option of using your LUCK, either to
inflict a more serious wound on a foe you have just
injured, or to minimize the effects of a wound the
foe has just inflicted on you.

If you have just wounded the foe, you may Test your
Luck as described above. If you are Lucky, you have
inflicted a severe wound and may subtract an extra 2
points from the foe’s STAMINA OF ARMOUR SCOTe,
However, if you are Unlucky, the wound was a
mere graze and you must restore 1 point to your
opponent's STAMINA Or ARMOUR (i.e. instead of
scoring the normal 2 points of damage, you have
now scored only 1).

If the foe has just wounded you, you may Test your
Luck to try to minimize the wound, If you are Lucky,
you have managed to avoid the full effect of the
blow. Restore 1 point of STAMINA Or ARMOUR (i.e.
instead of doing 2 points of damage it has done
only 1). If you are Unlucky, you have taken a more
serious blow. Subtract 1 extra STAMINA Or ARMOUR
point.

Remember that you must subtract 1 point from your
LUCK score each time you Test your Luck,

47
Restoring Skill, Stamina and Luck
Skill

Your $KILt score will not change much during your
adventure. Occasionally, a page may give instruc-
tions to increase or decrease your SKILL score. An
increase in SKILL may be general, affecting all
combats, or it may affect only one type of combat.
Your SKILL score can never exceed its Inifial value.
However, bonuses (from artefacts or robots with a
COMBAT BONUS) can add to your sKILt no matter
how high its level is.

At the beginning of the game, your SKILL is the
same in all situations. However, various artefacts
may increase your SKILL for one type of combat but
not the other. For instance, a sword of high quality
might increase your SKILL for personal combat but
not for robot combat = the sword is of no use when
you are piloting a robot!

Stamina

Your STAMINA score will change a lot during your
adventure as you fight various foes and undertake
arduous tasks. As you near your goal, your STAMI-
NA level may be dangerously low and battles may be
particularly risky, so be careful!

When you start your adventure, you will have five
‘medikits’. Each medikit can be used to restore 1 lost
point of STAMINA, Cross each one off your Adven-
ture Sheet as it is used, You are assumed fo carry

18

these with you at all times. However, they may not
be used during a battle — only afterwards! Remem-
ber also that your STAMINA score may never exceed
its Initial value.

Luck

Additions to your LUCK score are awarded when
you have been particularly lucky, or when you do
something deserving of luck. Details are given in
the pages of the book. Remember that, as with
SKILL and STAMINA, Your LUCK score may never
exceed its Initial value.

19

HINTS ON PLAY

In this book, you will become a lone guerrilla,
fighting against a horde of invaders. There are three
entirely different ways to defeat the invaders — one
obvious, the others not so obvious! Each method
requires a different path, different artefacts and
different decisions.

You are advised to make faithful notes about the
places you visit and the things you learn; they could
save your life. You will sometimes have the chance
to go back to a place you have already visited during
the same adventure. In any event, your notes will be
useful in further adventures, enabling you to pass
rapidly on to unexplored places.

You may also want to make a map of the country-
side as you pass through it. In particular, it will help
you to learn the relative positions of the cities you
visit,

Not every spot that you visit will be helpful; some
contain only traps and foes which you will no doubt
fall foul of. Many wrong turnings are possible . - .
and, even if you reach the ultimate destination, you
may not have everything you need to succeed.

it will be realized that the entries make no sense if
read in numerical order, It is essential that you read
only the entries you are instructed to read, starting

20

with the Background and entry 1, and continuing
from there.

The one best path to victory may not be the obvious
one — but it requires a minimum of risk. Any player,
no matter how weak on Initial dice rolls, should be
able to use any of the three strategies fairly easily
once the best path has been discovered.

Good luck!
-_

ENCOUNTER BOXES

SKILL STAMINA LUCK
Initial Initial Initial
Skill Stanina= Luck=
POSSESSIONS
{ Sword
{ Five Medikits
YOUR ROBOTS
Armour = Armour = Armour =
Speed = Speed = Speed =
Combat = Comint = Conihat =
Bonus = Bonus = | Bonus =
Armour = Armour = Armour =
Speed = Speed = Speed =
Combat = Combat = Combat =
Bonus = Bonus = Bonus =

Skill = Shill= Shll=
Stantina= Stamina= Sltanina=
Skitl= Skill = | Skill=
Stammea= Stamina= Slanrina=
Armour = Arniour = Armour =
Speed = Speed = Speed =
Cambat = Combat = Combat =
Bonus = Bonus = Bonus =
Armour = Armour @ Armour =
Speed = Speed = Speed =
Combat = Combat = Combat =
Bors = Bonus = Bonus =
ES
— ——

BACKGROUND

You are a rancher in the land of Thalos. Your people
(and your enemies, the savage Karosseans) have
built huge robots for many purposes. With a skilled
operator at the controls, a robot can replace a
hundred men ~ to mine ore, erect buildings, — move
cargo, or just about anything else.

The robots are also your best defence against the
vicious dinosaurs of Thalos. Many years ago, the
great lizards caused much destruction. But now
mankind has learned to tame the beasts, and many
of the folk of Thalos — like you — are dinosaur
ranchers. The ranchers use Mark 5A utility robots,
known as ‘cowboys’, to herd the dinosaurs! But

24

wild dinosaurs are still dangerous, and all robots
have guns to defend themselves,

Early one morning, you are just finishing your
breakfast when one of your assistants staggers into
the kitchen. ‘Sa sleepy,’ he says. Then he sits down
at the table, pillows his head on his arms and goes to
sleep!

You shake him, but you cannot rouse him.
Alarmed, you go for help. But everyone else you see
is asleep.

You rush back inside and switch on a radio. But you
can get only scraps of messages: ‘Everybody asleep
... Karossean attack . -. can’t stay awake ...’
Soon there is nothing to be heard. You go outside
again and pour cold water on several of your friends
— but they just snore and mutter.

Then you hear a rumble overhead, like thunder out
of the clear sky. You look up. Streaking overhead is
the unmistakable shape of a Karossean robojet!

You realize what must have happened. Somehow,
the Karosseans have managed to put everyone in
Thalos to sleep .. . everyone but you. For some
reason, you are immune,

25

Over the next few hours, you listen to the enemy
communications and piece together the story. In the
past, the Karosseans had steered clear of Thalos;
with its brave warriors and its many robots, your
land was too tough to attack. But Minos, their
leader, hit on a clever plan. His spies spread cap-
sules of a virulent sleeping sickness — and before
long, all Thalos was asleep!

Soon you hear a broadcast from Minos himself,
talking to his invading troops. An élite force of a
thousand warriors, with hundreds of robots, has
invaded Thalos. But this is only the beginning. With
the population helpless, Minos plans to loot your
country. Its riches and its robots will be his; its
people will be sold as slaves! And only you can stop
iter

You know what you have to do. You walk back
inside and buckle your father’s old sword to your
waist. Food will be no problem— you know supplies
will be easy to find — but you pick up a supply of five

medikits. Then you head for the robot parking-area.
Alone, you must defeat the Karossean invaders and
free your land!

NOW TURN THE PAGE ~

1-3

1

At the robot parking-area, you stop and look
around. There are several robots there, but only two
seem suitable for long-distance travel. You study
them both. If you want to take a standard ‘cowboy’
walking robot, which is not fast, but sturdy and
adaptable, turn to 24. If you would prefer a light
flyer, which is very speedy and manoeuvrable, but
not really intended for combat, turn to 47.

2
‘Insufficient data,’ replies the computer. ‘Probabil-
ity of Karossean trick 67 per cent. You have five
seconds to change your course.” If you continue
talking to give the computer guardian more data,
turn to 357. If you turn your robot and go elsewhere,
turn to 376,

3
Because you are not familiar with this type of robot,

you do not get the normal COMBAT BONUS with it -
in fact, your SKILL is 2 less than usual while you use
it. You realize you had better get out of there while
you can. Turn to 147.
The main encampment of the Karosseans is easy —
enough to find; they have taken over the city —

stadium. Even from a distance you can see flying
robots wheeling overhead. If you approach in your
robot, turn to 18. If you go on foot, turn to 32.

5
Your path takes you across a shallow swamp; the

road is narrow, and the ground to either side looks |

soft and sticky. When you round a corner, you see a
large dinosaur ahead of you. It is not a flesh-eater,
but it does not seem disposed to get out of your way.

If you fight it, turn to 239. If you leave the road, turn _

to 95.

6
A blast from the Supertank cracks the pilot’s com-
partment of your robot and vaponzes everything
within, You came close to winning and, even in
defeat, you shattered the enemy invasion force - but
your adventure is over.

7-8

You give the proper countersign. The Karossean
sentry radios you back: ‘Pass, friend!’ You have
fooled him! You can go about your work. Where
were you when you were challenged:

The City of Knowledge? Turn to 63

The City of Industry? Turn to 132

The Capital City? Turn to 222
8

The sea-coast is a narrow strip of sand, bounded on
one side by the ocean and on the other side by steep
cliffs. After a few minutes of travel, you see some-
thing ahead. It is a huge herd of Brontosaurus
dinosaurs. Most of them are munching on seaweed
thrown up by the storms, buta few are investigating
something that glitters. Lf you investigate it your-
self, turn to 84. If you turn around and go back to the
city, turn to 144.

9
There are several robots here, all identical. They are
similar to the Cowboy Robot that you used on your
ranch, but more heavily armed and armoured, for
use against the largest dinosaurs. These Super-
Cowboy Robots move by walking. Each has
weapons almost as powerful as those of a war robot.

SUPER-COWBOY ROBOT

ARMOUR I4 SPEED Medium

COMBAT BONUS +1

SPECIAL ABILITIES: This robot carries a ‘Sonic
Screamer’ weapon designed to distract dino-
saurs. Reduce the sKILL of any enemy dinosaur
by 1 when you fight it in the Super-Cowboy.
Unfortunately, the special weapon is no use
against other robots,

You may take one of these robots if you like. If you
had a robot already, make a note that this is where
you left it. What will you do now:

Get in your robot and cross the

electro-fence? Turn to 129
Go to the Administrative Building? Turn to 85
Leave the Dinosaur Preserve? Turn to 150

10-12

10

You decide to visit the Capitol Building, the seat of
government of Thalos. If you go in your robot, turn
to 42. If you travel on foot, turn to 71.

1

The hospital is crawling with Karosseans, both
soldiers and doctors. By hiding and skulking, you
manage to snatch two medikits. You cannot risk
staying longer. Carefully, you slip out of the hospi-
tal and away. Return to 308.

12

You are now flying above the city. The storm is
incredibly violent. You cannot control your flyer!
Roll two dice, If the result is less than or equal to
your SKILL, turn to 316. If the result is more than
your SKILL, turn to 379.
13714

13
You enter the village and investigate. You find one
useful robot, a Digger Robot. This slow but power-
ful machine rides on treads. It has a bulldozer blade
on the front, a scoop-shovel on the back, and two
large claws for lifting.

DIGGER ROBOT
ARMOUR16 SPEEDSIOW COMBATBONUSO
SPECIAL ABILITIES: The digger robot can try to
strike with the scoop-shovel. This is a clumsy
attack (—2 to your roll), but if it succeeds, the foe
takes 6 points of damage!

if you do not have a robot, you take the Digger
Robot. If you already have a robot, you may pick
which one to continue with, You set your course
once more for the City of Knowledge. Turn to 361.

You stay in your robot and travel to the huge
Thalian Museum. This is the largest museum in all
the land; it is full of exhibits on every imaginable
subject, If you have been here before, turn to 160. If
you have not been before, continue reading.

a5

As you approach the museum, you keep a sharp
watch, but you see no enemies. When you arrive,
you park your robot in front of the building and
walk up the steps, past a pair of carved stone
dragons. The museum attendant is snoring, but the
little Information Robot is alert. ‘Can I help you?’ it
asks. What will you do:

Ask for military information?_— Turn to 36
Ask for information on sleeping
sickness? Turn to 80
Ask for information on the ;
Karosseans? Turn to 58
Leave the museum? Turn to 102

oer PEE 4 a DAs. Sage Faye!

15
The tunnel goes lower and lower into the earth.
Then it opens into a wide, dimly lit vault. If you
enter the vault, turn to 340. If you continue down-
wards, turn to 278,

16-18

16

You turn north through the deserted city. You see
few people lying in the streets here; thinking of the
jungle so close by, you shudder. You fear you know
what has happened to the people here. Then,
rounding the corner, you see that you were right. A
Nothosaurus is coming towards you, long tongue
flickering. This dinosaur walks on all fours orswims
in shallow swamps. It is both a predator and a
scavenger. If you flee immediately, turn to 331.
Otherwise, fight the creature:

NOTHOSAURUS

ARMOUR SPEED Slow SKILLO

if you kill the Nothosaurus, turn to 51. If your own
robot's ARMOUR is reduced toa, turn to 279. If you
Escape, turn to 331,

17
If you know what you might find in this building,
add 50 to its model number and turn to that para-
graph. If this means nothing to you, return to 85.

18
If you fly towards the enemy encampment, turn to
35. lf you travel on the ground, turn to 187,

19-21

19
You hear a crashing sound in the jungle, coming
towards you. It is a low, armoured dinosaur, wav-
ing a club-like tail back and forth. It is coming
straight at you. If you flee, turn to 115. If you attack
the dinosaur, turn to 400.

20

The whole sixth floor of the Centre seems to be a
cross between a laboratory and a gymnasium. In the
middle of the room is a device like a suit of armour.
Beside it is a sleeping fellow, somewhat battered
around the face, in an athletic suit. After a little
investigation, you find that the device on the floor is
an experimental ‘Amplifier Suit’, designed to make
its wearer almost as strong and fast as a robot, If you
want to try it on, turn to 83. If you want to try
another floor instead, turn to 333.

21
You flee in fear out of the temple. You can feel the
disapproval of the Powers of Glory, Lose 1 LUCK
point and 1 SKILL point for your cowardice. Return
to 166; you may not visit this temple again.

22-25

22

You use the code-words you found with the map
reference. ‘Acceptable,’ crackles the voice of the
guardian computer. ‘Entering at Clearance Level
Zero.’ Turn to 175.

23
Unfortunately, this experimental craft is different
from all other robots you have handled. Its COMBAT
BONUS of 2 does mot count for you until you have
been through two combats with it. Turn to 378.

24
This man-shaped robot is designed for dinosaur

herding. It moves by walking. It has weapons for
dealing with rogue dinosaurs, but they are not as
powerful as those of a war robot,

COWBOY ROBOT
ARMOUR 10 SPEED Medium
COMBAT BONUSO SPECIAL ABILITIES: None

Now you must choose a place to go: turn to 70. If
you change your mind and want to take the flyer
instead, turn to 47.

25
This is the Robot Experimental Centre. If you have
been here before, turn to 251. If you have not been
here before, keep reading. You know little about the
Centre except its name, but you have heard
rumours that top-secret work is being done here.
Turn to 333.
“\
heh # ~ 2 1 ae
= ‘ a ee

2%, ‘> Sheoed

wrt

26-27

26
You are being attacked by a Karossean Air-Fighter!
This is a sleek, arrow-shaped robot. It can sprout
legs to land on the ground, butitalways fights in the
shape of an aircraft.

AIR-FIGHTER
ARMOUR? SPEED Fast SKILL
SPECIAL ABILITIES: None

If you defeat the Air-Fighter by reducing its
ARMOUR to o, turn to 113. If your own robot's
ARMOUR is reduced to 0, turn to 136,

27
This Karossean robot is like nothing you have en-
countered before, Itis a Crusher, a humanoid robot,
but twice as large as those you have seen before. It
has no guns, but was designed for destroying forts
and trenches. It attacks by stamping with its huge
feet.
28

CRUSHER
ARMOUR I4 SPEED Slow SKILL8
SPECIAL ABILITIES: Although the Crusher is not
especially skilful, every time it hits it does double
damage. Thus, it does 4 with a normal strike, or 2 if
you use LUCK successfully, or 6 if you try LucK
and fail!

You cannot Escape. If you destroy the Crusher, turn
to 275. [fit reduces your ARMOUR to 9, turn to 384.

28

You quickly activate the controls to turn your robot
into its flying form. The transition, usually so swift,
seems incredibly slow in the face of the rampaging
herd . . . butin the nick of time you swoop away. If
you wait until the dinosaurs have dispersed, then
land to see what they were looking at, turn to 62. If
you go back to the city, turn to 144.

29-31

29

You put on the Cloak of Invisibility and explore the
hospital. Although the building is full of enemies,
the Cloak lets you pass among them without being
spotted, You find a robot surgeon which heals your
wounds: restore your STAMINA to its Jnitial level.
You also find two medikits in an unguarded room.
You find nothing else of any particular use. At
length, your Cloak begins to flicker; you will not be
able to use it again, You return to your robot, Turn
to 308.

30
You have defeated the Tripods, but you hear more
enemies on the way. You have time for only one
choice. If you examine the wreckage of the Tripods,
turn to 68. If you enter the fuel plant, turn to 132.

31
You decide to explore the streets of the Capital City.
How will you travel:

Flying about? Turn to 55
Ground travel, going left? Turn to 153
Ground travel, going right? Turn to 290
32-35

32
If you possess the Cloak of Invisibility and have not
used it, turn to go. Otherwise, turn to 103,

33
Giving the odd-looking plant a wide berth, you
continue on your path. Turn to 237.

34
You decide to wander around and see what you can

find. The streets are choked with huge vehicles,
stranded where they fell or rolled when their pilots
went to sleep, If you explore to the east, turn to 342.
If you go west, turn to 195.

You have defeated the Karossean ambush. All three
robots lie smashed and burning on the ground.
What will you do:

Explore the city? Turn to 366
Explore the jungle? Turn to 170
Leave the city? Turn to 298

36-38

36

‘Well, that depends on what kind of information
you need, Modern military information is classified,
and you would have to ask at the War College.
Historical military information is in Hall Beta. We
have some wonderful exhibits.’ If you go to Hall
Beta to look at the military exhibits, turn to 146. If
you ask for something else, turn back to 14.

37
Your prayer is quickly answered. A blanket of peace
comes over you... the same peace that the other
worshippers received. You feel yourself falling
asleep. Perhaps the Powers of Peace will protect you
from the Karosseans somehow, but your adventure
is over.

38
If you are travelling on the ground, turn to 137. If
you are flying, turn to 313.

39-40

After several hours of travel, you enter rocky ter-
rain. The path narrows, and you are forced to use
both of your robot's hands just to climb. You wish
you were ina vehicle that could just fly over all this!
Suddenly, you hear a roar. Looking behind you,
you see a huge Tyrannosaurus sprinting through
the racks at you! Jaws agape, it lunges towards you,
and robot and dinosaur fall to the ground, grappling
fiercely. This huge meat-eater is the ‘king of the
dinosaurs’, and attacks anything it sees to feed its
savage appetite. You must fight it to the finish.

TYRANNOSAURUS
ARMOURS SPEED Fast SKILL9
SPECIAL ABILITIES: None

You cannot Escape; the Tyrannosaurus is faster than
you are, and it is familiar with the territory. If you
defeat the Tyrannosaurus, turn to 235. If it reduces
your robot’s ARMOUR to 0, turn to 258.

40
You have returned to the City of Knowledge. In the
distance, you see the towers of the College of Medi-
cine. But you also see a Karossean air-fighter, clos-
ing fast! If you know a password with which to
challenge the enemy, turn to that number. If you do
not know the password, turn to 305.
41-42

41

At the airfield, you find dozens of pleasure craft of
all sorts, none of which looks useful. But parked in
an out-of-the-way corner is a small but deadly-
looking fighting-machine. It is a sleek experimental
fighter, called a Wasp Fighter. Only a few exist. It
has very little armour, but it has good weapons
and handles well.

WASP FIGHTER
ARMOUR6 SPEED Very Fast COMBATBONUS2
SPECIAL ABILITIES: Whenever the Wasp’s
Attack Roll exceeds its foe’s roll by 4 or more, it
has literally flown circles around its foe! It auto-
matically wins the next combat round as well— no
rolls are necessary.

You may take it if you like. If you return here later,
your old robot will be here instead of the Wasp.
Return to 165.

42

The closer you get to the building, the more Karos-
seans you see. Soon you realize that your robot js
making you far too conspicuous. Turn to 71,

437-45

You are leaving the City of Storms. Where would
you like to go:

The City of Knowledge? Turn to 361
The City of Worship? Turn to 166
The City of the Guardians? Turn to XX

Note that you cannot visit the City of the Guardians
until you know the numbers to use in place of "XX".

44
The lift doors clang shut and it begins to descend,
After about five minutes, it stops again. Outside isa
corridor even dimmer than the area you just left,
The door opens just wide enough for you to squeeze
out, Will you press another button (turn to 269), or
step out and go down the corridor (turn to 15)?

45

You return to the robot that brought you to the city,
You collect your Possessions and climb out of the
one you used in the jungle. Just as you reach the
ground, you hear a thunderous explosion. You
have been ambushed! Your old robot is going up in
flames. Behind you, guns are firing at the one that
took you through the jungle. If you climb back into
that robot and fight, turn to 347, If you run for cover,
turn to 159.

___a.

—— ti ‘tS

46-48

46
You charge to the attack! The Karossean controlling
the other robot is caught totally by surprise. Roll twa
dice and do that much damage to the enemy robot
before its pilot can react. If you roll 12, turn to 109.
Otherwise, turn to 78, mark off the damage you did,
and fight.

47
This flying robot, called a Dragonfly Model D, looks
like a gigantic dragonfly, complete with buzzing
wings. Its main advantage in combat is its speed.

DRAGONELY MODEL D
ARMOURS SPEED Very Fast COMBATBONUSO
SPECIAL ABILITIES: Because this craft is so man-
oeuvrable, you can escape from any opponent —
even another ‘Very Fast’ one—if given the option
to Escape,

Now you must choose a place to go: turn to 70. If
you change your mind and want to take the Cowboy
Robot instead, turn to 24.

You step over the fragments of the smashed robot
and enter the laboratory. Inside, you find some-
thing very interesting: the prototype for a Seeker
Missile. There is only one, but it looks very handy. It
can be attached to the outside of any robot. It can be
used only when you are piloting a robot — not in
personal combat. It may be fired atany time, befween

49-51

Attack Rounds, It will automatically hit its target
and reduce its ARMOUR score by 10.

As you take your prize downstairs, you see another
Guard Robot like the one you defeated. You hurry
out of the lobby and back to your robot. You may
install the Seeker Missile now, or save it for another
robot. It may be moved from one robot to another,
but it is lost if the robot carrying it is lost, or if it is
fired. Turn to 206.

49
Which temple would you like to visit:

The Temple of Peace? Turn to 365
The Temple of Fear? Turn to 304
The Temple of Nothingness? Turn to 249
The Temple of Glory? Turn to 339

50

The Karossean troops, already nervous because of
the reports of Thalian robots at large, don’t hesitate.
They set off a buried mine, placed beneath the gate
a$ a precaution. Your robot is shattered. Your
adventure is over,

51

You have destroyed the scavenging Nothosaurus.
Add 2 Luck points for protecting the sleeping
people from this menace. If you have not already
explored the south of the city, you may do so (turn
to 225). Otherwise, turn to 137.
52-54

52
You've fought robots, and you've fought dinosaurs,
but this hybrid foe is too much for you. The beating
your robot took has injured you: Jose 2 STAMINA
points. As your battered robot pulls away, you hear
the mechanical Tyrannosaurus give a mechanical
scream behind you. You had best go elsewhere; you
don’t want to be here when the Karosseans come to
tind out what has happened! You leave; you may
not return to the museum again. Turn to 63.

53
In a closet, you find what appears to be an unused

coat-hanger — but when you pick it up, it is heavy!
You have found the Cloak of Invisibility. Inside it
are the instructions. When it is activated, it will
cause light waves to pass around you, making you
invisible for about an hour. But it will only work
once without being recharged, and the instructions
do not say how to recharge it. Return to 85.

54

You are at the College of Medicine. This is both the
greatest hospital and the greatest medical labora-
tory of your entire nation. You approach cautiously,
Dut see no sign of the Karossean invaders. You leave
your robot near the front steps and enter the build-
ing. If you have been here before, turn to 232. If you
seek treatment for your own injuries, turn to 77. If
you look for information on sleeping sickness, turn
to 126,
55

Your robot takes to the air, and you can soon see the
enemy encampment. But the enemy air patrols are
vigilant: two flying robots swoop to challenge you.
They do not ask for a password, but open fire
immediately. You must fight these two Myrmidon
robots. The Myrmidon is the standard Karossean
combat robot. It has two forms — humanoid and
fighter-plane. These two are in plane form and will
not try to change during the battle.

First MYRMIDON

ARMOURS SPEED Very Fast SKILL 11
Second MYRMIDON

ARMOURS SPEED Very Fast SKILL 9

SPECIAL ABILITIES: None

If you defeat the two Myrmidons, turn to 75. If they
defeat you, turn to 125. If you Escape, turn to 98.

56-58

56
You have defeated the Ankylosaurus. Looking
along the trail of destroyed vegetation that it left
behind, you see a glint of metal. If you investigate,
turn to 263. If you ignore it and go on, turn to 321.

57
Soon your robot is parked in front of the Temple of
Fear. It is a huge, irregularly shaped building, built
entirely from black stone. Within it are served the
Powers of Fear, If you are having second thoughts
about your visit, you may return to 166, If you wish
to go inside, turn to 193.

58
‘Oh, very good,’ the little robot responds. ‘We have
a wonderful exhibition on Karossean history and
culture in Hall Epsilon.’ If you go to Hall Epsilon to
study Karossean history, turn to 124. If you would
rather ask for something more up to date, turn back
to 14 and make another choice.
mm

59-61

59
Before long, you have put the equipment to work on

your own robot. Restore your robot's ARMOUR
score to its Initial value. As you finish your work, the
machines’ programming powers them down. You
try, but you cannot restart them. You may not
return here for further repairs. You find nothing
else of interest in the shop. Turn to 110.

60
You can tell that your robot is nearly done for. If you
would like to bail out of your crippled machine, tum
to 183. If you would rather fight toa finish, return to
341 and complete the battle.

61
Your luck can’t last for ever, since you are withouta
robot in a hostile city. Eventually you are spotted
and captured, When your countrymen awake, they
join you in the slave-pens. Some day you may
escape, but for now your adventure is over.

62

The dinosaurs were investigating a Cowboy robot
~ possibly belonging to their herder — which is
half buried in the sand. The machine proves to be
unsalvageable, but within its cockpit you find two
medikits, You may add these to your Possessions
and continue. You cannot return to the seashore.
Turn to 144.

63
Where would you like to go:
The Thalian Museum? Turn to 160
The College of Medicine? Turn to §4
The College of War? Turn to 277
The Dinosaur Preserve? Turn to 66
Out of the city? Turn to 380
64

You set off into the jungle — a brave move, but a
foolish one! A prowling dinosaur snaps you up so
quickly that you hardly have time to realize your
danger. Your adventure is over.
65-66

65
You park your robot beside the door and enter the
College of War. You are alert for other Karosseans,
but apparently the sentry outside was the only one.
The halls and rooms are littered with beribboned
generals, fast asleep.

Following the signs, you head for the library to see
what you can learn. But, just as you get there, you
hear a roaring sound from outside. Looking out of
the window, you see three sleek fighter-planes
hurtle down, sprout legs and turn into robots like the
sentry outside. The Karosseans are arriving in force!

You quickly look around the room, There are sev-
eral volumes on the counter, as though someone
was trying to check them out just before the sleep-
ing sickness hit. The books are too large to carry,
and you have time to look at only one. Which title
will you choose:

The City of the Guardians? Turn to 256

Emergency Procedures? Turn to 300

Karossean Military Robots? Turn to 268
66

You are at the entrance to the Dinosaur Preserve,
where some of the wildest and most vicious crea-
tures of all Thalos are kept for study. If you have
already been here, turn to 189. Otherwise, keep
reading.

An electro-fence keeps the creatures from rampag-
ing out. On your side of the fence is cool green grass;
hi -

67-68

on the other side is rank jungle. Also on your side of
the fence are two buildings: the Administrative
Building, and a huge, unmarked, barn-like struc-
ture. What will you do:

Leave your robot and go to the

Administrative Building? Turn to 85
Leave your robot and go to the

other building? Turn to 171
Stay in your robot and cross the

electro-fence? Turn to 129
Leave the Dinosaur Preserve? Turn to 150

67
Storm clouds are gathering as you approach. But

even through the static on your radio, you can hear
chatter in Karossean voices, Then you are chal-
lenged by several Karosseans in small robots. If you
fight them, turn to 217. If you fly away from them,
turn to 22.

68

You check the wrecked Tripods. You are in luck!
Thanks to their modular design, one has a piece of
undamaged armour-plate that will fit any robot.
You can attach it now, or save it until Jater (though
you may not install it during a battle). It will restore
1 point of ARMouR, though this may not raise
your robot's ARMOUR score above its Initial score.
it may be used only once! Turn to 293.

69-70

You leave the building on foot, The smashed re-
mains of your robot lie in the street outside; the ones
you fought are nowhere to be seen, You will have to
explore the city on foot in hope of finding some-
thing. You cannot go to another city until you finda
robot; if you have to fight a dinosaur, you will be in
trouble! Where will you go:

The north part of the city? Turn to 16
The south part of the city? Turn to 225
The jungle? Turn to 64

70

Now what are you going to do? You know that,
although there are probably Karosseans every-
where, their base is at the Capital City. But you can’t
just charge in there and attack them with your little
robot! You must prepare well before you make your
move, Fortunately, there are many cities in Thalos.
You will be able to search the whole country for
help, if need be, before you confront the invaders.
Two large cities are fairly close. If you want to go to
the City of Knowledge, turn to 93, If you want to go
to the City of Industry, turn to 209.

71-74

71
You decide to go on foot, If you possess the Cloak of
Invisibility and have not used it, you may use it
now: turn to 106. If you have already used it, do not
possess it, or if you simply choose not to use it, turn

to 134.

72
The tunnel continues on and levels out again. Lose 1
STAMINA point. Eventually it opens up into a large
area filled with dimly visible hulks, Turn to 340.

73
Almost immediately the path forks again. To the
left, a large sign reads ‘Danger! Man-trap!’ There is
no sign by the right path. If you go left, turn to 128. If
you go right, turn to 188,

74
If you seek treatment for your own injuries, turn to

219. If you look for information on sleeping sick-
ness, turn to 395.

73-77

7.
You have eliminated the two enemy robots —but ata
cost. You are somewhat shaken up by the man-
oeuvres you have been forced to perform; lose 1
STAMINA point. More foes are approaching rapid-
ly. Ifyou press on towards the encampment, turn to
245- If you retreat, turn to 98,

You continue through the enemy encampment.
Soon you can see the wide bartier separating the
main encampment from the Karossean officers’
territory. There are not many robots near by, but the
ones you can see are formidable. One of them
signals you. ‘Halt! What's the password?’ What will
you do:

Reply ‘Eighty-eight’? Turn to 120
Attack immediately? Turn to 264
Reply ‘Minos’? Turn to 145

77
You turn your steps towards the hospital section of

the College of Medicine. Soon you find a medikit,
which you may add to your Possessions, What will
you do now:

Continue to search the hospital? Turn to 185
Look for information on sleeping

sickness? Turn to 126
Leave the hospital? Turn to 210
78-80

78
You fight the enemy robot, It is a Myrmidon, the
standard Karossean combat robot. It has two forms
- humanoid and fighter-plane. This one is in huma-
noid form and will not be able to change itself
during the battle,

MYRMIDON
ARMOUR I2 SPEED Medium SKILL10
SPECIAL ABILITIES: None for this battle

lf vou reduce the enemy’s ARMOUR to 0, turn to 109.
If your own ARMOUR is reduced to 0, turn to 133.

79
You play for another twenty minutes. When the

time ends, the machine goes dark; you will not be
able to play it again. But the detailed simulation of
combat in the Wasp 200 Fighter has added 1 to your
SKILL (with robots only). Return to 288.

‘T’'m sorry,’ replies the Information Robot. ‘We have
a general medical display in Hall Omicron, but for
the kind of specific information you want, you
would need to inquire at a hospital, or at the College
of Medicine.’ If you want to leave the museum, turn
to 102. If you want to ask another question, return to
14 and make another choice.
eeteté

81
You decide to investigate the Capital City hospital.
If you want to stay in your robot, turn to 99. If you
investigate on foot, turn to 152.

82
The junkyard is just as you left it, but the huge Ape
is nowhere in sight. There is nothing that you can do
here. Turn to 110.

83

You fit yourself into the Amplifier Device and acti-
vate it, When you take an experimental step, you
jump a metre in the air! You reach for the instruc-
tions on a nearby table — and your fist goes through
the table! You are delighted. You pick up a hundred-
kilo file cabinet with one hand, toss it in the air and
catch it. Then you try to jump. Maybe you can go
over tall buildings with a single bound!

83-84

At that point, the suit goes out of control. You
bounce off several walls, the floor, and once the
ceiling. Eventually you come toa stop. You carefully
deactivate the suit—then you just lie and rest. Lose 2
STAMINA points. Now you know why you never
heard of this experiment, and why the tester in the
sweatsuit looked so battered!

If you leave the building, turn to 206. If you want to
investigate elsewhere, return to 333 and makea new
choice.

84
The inquisitive dinosaurs totally surround your
quarry. What will you do:

Shove your way in among them? Turn to 387
Fire a few shots to panic them? Turn to 299
Shout at them over your speakers? Turn to 119

i

' oe, = oie *

85-87

85
You are inside the Administrative Building. Every-
one is asleep, of course. You see nothing of special
interest, What will you do now:

Look for a specific object? Turn to 17
Search the whole office thoroughly? Turn to 96
Investigate the other building? Turn to 171
Get in your robot and cross the

electro-fence? Turn to 129
Leave the Dinosaur Preserve? Tum to 150

86

You summon your courage and confront the
Powers of Nothingness. You may not know the
meaning of life, but you know you have a mission.
And suddenly, nothing feels strange. You stalk out
of the Temple of Nothingness. You have gained
nothing . . . and lost nothing. Restore the Luck
point that you lost when Testing your Luck, and
return to 166.

87

If you are wearing an enemy uniform, turn to 177. if
you do not have a uniform, Test your Luck: if you are
Lucky, turn to 199; if you are Unlucky, turn to 223.

88

‘Eighty-eight!’ you bark at the Karosseans. ‘Seven!’
they reply to you, Aha! You have learned the coun-
tersign to their password! And because you gave the
password, you are free to go about your business.
Where were you when you challenged the enemy
soldiers:

The City of Industry? Turn to 132
The City of Knowledge? Turn to 63
The Capital City? Turn to 192

89
Your captors discuss what to do with you. Eventual-
ly they toss you into a basement room and lock the
door. All your Possessions are lost. If you try to
escape now, turn to 315. If you bide your time and
wait for a better chance, turn to 397.

go

Using the Cloak of Invisibility, you easily slip
through the enemy lines and into their officers’
camp. There you spy Minos himself! If you attack
him by surprise, turn to 201. If you shed your Cloak
and try another stratagem, turn to 103.
| Sees Cla OF

91-93

91

Fortunately, the problem seems to be nothing worse
than a pair of crossed wires. You activate the robot
surgeon and tell it you need treatment, Lights blink-
ing and motors humming, it obliges. Restore all lost
STAMINA points and 1 LUCK point. If you now look
for information on sleeping sickness, turn to 126. If
you leave the building, turn to 210,

92

There are no Karosseans left in sight, but you know
you had better be off before more appear! Return to
308,

93

You head for the City of Knowledge. It is your
people’s greatest centre of learning. There, you
hope, you will find information that will help you
defeat the invaders. After about an hour of travel,
you sight a flying dinosaur ahead of you, It dives
aggressively towards you. You must fight it. lt is a
Pteranodon, a large, predatory flying dinosaur. Itis
lightly built, but speedy and aggressive.

PTERANODON

ARMOUR 3 SPEED Fast SKILLY
SPECIAL ABILITIES: None

If you defeat the Pteranodon, or if you Escape, turn
to 186. If the Pteranodon reduces your robot's
ARMOUR too, turn to 126.
oro

94-97

94

The stairway leads to a corridor which tums down-
ward once again. Eventually, the corridor ends ina
small alcove with a lift. Rather than retrace your
steps, you enter the lift and push the button. Turn to

44.

This is a fatal mistake: you quickly sink into the
swampy goo. The dinosaur watches, bemused, as
bubbles rise to mark your resting-place.

In trying to open an office marked ‘Private’, you
activate a security system. An electric shock pins
you to the door-frame. By the time you get free, you
have lost 1 STAMINA point. Return to 85.

97
The battle is over. You have tom the Man-trap Plant
into a thousand pieces. Nothing remains of the
vicious vegetable except a damper spot on the
marshy ground, Turn to 237.

98-99

You realize that you cannot win a dogfight against
this many foes. Dodging and weaving between the
buildings of the Capital City, you lose your pur-
suers. You have stirred up a hornets’ nest now! You
must press the attack before they hunt you down.
What will you do:

Look elsewhere in the Capital

City for help? Turn to 308
Try to slip into the enemy camp

on foot? Turn to 32
Stay in your robot and attack

on the ground? Turn to 187

99
As you round a corner, you see a pair of Karossean

robots coming your way! Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 130. If you are Unlucky, turn to 172.
100-101

100
When your instruments tell you that you have
penetrated to the heart of the storm, you take the
precious flask of Blue Potion and unstopper it. You
quickly pour it through the ejection lock. It diffuses
in the air around you. You smile; you know the
storm will quickly carry it to every part of Thalos.
But when ycu land, the people of the City of
Worship are still asleep. Obviously, the Potion was
not sufficiently potent. Turn to 166.

101
You have defeated the Tylosaurus. Small scaven-
gers are already appearing in the water around you,
drawn by the blood, If you return to the city, turn to
144. If you continue towards the spot where you
saw the herd of dinosaurs, turn to 62,

102-103

102
If you possess an Amulet, turn immediately to 250.
Otherwise, you leave the building the way you
entered, You re-enter your robot, Turn to 396.

103

The enemy encampment is well patrolled. You are
seized by Karossean guards. If you know something
that might help you now, turn to the reference
number that came with that information. Other-
wise, turn to 228.

———Eo7ow | 0

104

104

Looking at a hospital map, you see that the Research
Lab is not far away. Carrying the book with you,
you set off to find it, and soon arrive at a large
chemical laboratory. As you walked, you heard
strange squeaks and shuffling noises in the hallway,
Sut saw nothing. You are somewhat disturbed to
note that there are no sleeping doctors or resear-
chers here! No one is here at all.

You bar the lab doors for safety and set to work.
Fortunately, the instructions are clear and the lab is
well stocked. Eventually, you have a one-litre flask
of Blue Potion = all you can make with the materials
at hand. Indeed, from the rarity of the materials you
used, you doubt that another litre could be made in
the whole of Thalos! But you also know from the
Sook that one litre would be enough for everyone
m Thalos. Nevertheless, there is a problem. The
potion is so volatile that once opened, it will
quickly evaporate; you cannot awaken people one
2ta time. You must find a way to treat your whole
sation at once! So your quest is not over.

Outside, you hear the strange squeaking once
2zain. If you leave immediately, turn to 394. If you
remain in the laboratory, checking your work one
zst time, turn to 372.

—eEEE—_—--  ”

- - &@"

»

:

105-106

1

You decide to visit the Fuel-refining Plant, This is
where the radioactive ores that power the robots are
processed. A single block of fuel will drive a robot
for a year. As you approach, you realize that some of
the robots standing around the plant are active! The
Karosseans have sent a force to garrison this
strategic point. What will you do:

Proceed normally? Turn to 236
Attack? Turn to 169
Flee? Turn to 135
Try a ruse? Turn to 197

106
You don the Cloak. It works like a charm: when you
walk in front of a store window, you have n
reflection! Soon the Cloak is put to a harder test: yo
walk in front of a Karossean patrol, but remai
totally unseen. You enter the Capitol Building itself.
There is no sign of the legislators; you assume they
have been taken away as hostages. While you a
investigating the building, you observe a pair
Karosseans standing guard over a huge display

107

case. You move closer and listen, ‘That's right,’ one
is saying. ‘Minos will come to take possession of this
sword in a few hours. There'll be some kind of
ceremony, | guess.’ Looking in the case, you see
that this is the Sword of State! You are reluctant to
leave it where the tyrant can get it — but taking it
would be a risk. What will you do:

Go on and look elsewhere in the

Capitol Building? Turn to 164
Try to take the sword by stealth? Turn to 190
Attack the sentries and take

the sword? Turn to 215

107

You pray to the Powers of Peace to grant you and
your people the peace that can only come from
freedom. Somewhere you seem to hear bells chim-
ing, and a feeling of well-being comes over you.
Restore your LUCK to its Initial score. Return to 166;
you may not visit this temple again,

108
Having provoked a battle, you must now finish it
... The enemy robot turns and attacks. It is a
Battleman, a heavy-duty Karossean combat robot.

BATTLEMAN
ARMOUR 11 sPEED Medium SKILL 11
SPECIAL ABILITIES: If the Battleman’s roll éx-
ceeds your own roll by 4, it does 1 extra point of
damage to you. LUCK rolls will not affect this extra
point of damage.

if you defeat the Battleman, turn to 2go. If your own
ARMOUR is reduced to a, turn to 61. You may not
Escape.

10g
The enemy robot falls, blasted to scrap. There is no
sign of its pilot. If you want to examine the fallen
robot more carefully, turn to 155. If you want to
ignore it and enter the War College, turn to 65.

110-121

110

You continue to wander about the city for some
time. You see many interesting sights, but nothing
that looks as though it would help. At length you
come toa large open area. At one side of the parkisa
large building marked ‘Robot Experimental Centre’,
Across the park isa sign that says ‘Robots Working’.
It looks like an open access to the city’s tunnel
system. Will you visit the Robot Experimental Cen-
tre (turn to 25), or leave your robot and enter the
tunnel system (turn to 127)?

iit

What will you do;

Challenge Minos toa personal duel? Turn to 253

Claim to be a message-bearer? Turn to 267
Use a password? Turn to 173
Try to fight your way out? Turn to 283
a a

——— ——eEO

112-113

112

In the ‘Dinosaur Hunt’ game, you are givena huge
gun with which to fire at holograms representing
dinosaurs of all kinds. You fire for a while, but the
game is very unrealistic and boring. The dinosaurs
seem to walk right past, unaware that they are
targets.

You leave in disgust. But, as you do, you notice a
plaque by the door. It reads, in part, ‘. . . this game
is based on the prototype “Cloak of Invisibility”
device, Model 3, now being tested at the Dinosaur
Preserve.’ Very interesting! If you want to play
another game, turn to 288. If you would rather leave
the arcade, turn to 165.

113

The enemy robot, trailing smoke, ploughs into the
ground. Nothing could have survived that blast.
You are free to go, Turn to 63.

114

You spy an open closet in an adjoining room. Inside
you can see a medikit! You investigate; sure
enough, the rest of your equipment is here! But as
you are gathering it, a rifle-butt strikes your head
from behind. Your adventure is over.

115

You hurriedly move to the side. The creature blun-
ders past you and vanishes. You are on the outskirts
of the City of the Jungle. If you re-enter the jungle,
on the other path, turn to 73. If you want to go
elsewhere, turn to 137.

116
If you have a flying robot, turn to 139, Otherwise,
turn to 162.

117

117

You cross the electro-fence into the Dinosaur Pre-
serve itself. Small lizards scurry about as your robot
passes. For several minutes you explore, finding
nothing of interest. Then you hear a coughing,
trumpeting sound. Charging towards you are two
huge, horned Triceratops. Underneath the jungle
canopy, shape-changing robots cannot change to
flying form; you will have to fight these foes on the
ground.

First TRICERATOPS

ARMOUR 9 SPEED Medium SKILL
Second TRICERATOPS

ARMOUR10 SPEED Medium SKILLS

You must fight them both at once, Each dinosaur
will have a separate attack on you in each Attack
Round, but you must choose which of the two you
will fight. Attack your chosen foe each round as ina
normal battle. Against the other you must throw for
your Attack Strength in the normal way, but even if
your Attack Strength is greater, you will not wound
it, You must just count this as though you have
defended yourself from it. However, if its Attack
Strength is greater, it will damage your robot in the
usual way. If you Escape, turn to 270. If you defeat
the dinosaurs, turn to 292. If your robot is des-
troyed, turn to 310.
118-122

118
You flee down the stairs. If you ever return to this
floor, the Guard Robot will still be there, with
whatever damage it took during this battle. You find
yourself back in the lobby, Turn to 333.

119
They ignore you totally, Turn to 84 and choose

again.

120

‘Wrong password, soldier!’ comes the response.
You're in officer territory. Wait! Stop! That's the
Thalian!’ But as the huge sentry robot attacks, you
fire also. Turn to 27 and fight.

121
You run, but the Nothosaurus is faster. It gobbles
you up in two gulps. Your adventure is over.

122

Your radio suddenly crackles to life with a mecha-
nical voice. ‘You are approaching the City of the
Guardians. Please give your authorization.’ If you
have read a military volume on the City of the
Guardians, turn to the map reference you were
given there. If you have not read this yolume, turn
to 218.

123

You enter the temple, but soon find that nothing is
what it appears to be. Indeed, nothing is happening
here. You seem to have gained nothing by having
come. But then, nothing would be served by your
leaving! Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 86,
If you are Unlucky, turn to 204.

124

You make your way to Hall Epsilon. The trip is a
long one, and several times you hear odd, echoing
sounds. You realize that you are not alone in the
duilding! You press on, and find the exhibition on
the history of the Karosseans. Studying it briefly,
you see that it has nothing to do with their military
abilities; it is all about their culture and customs. It
will take an hour to study the material: if you want to
do so, turn to 180. If you return to the front desk,
turn to 224.
———=

125-127

125
As your faithful robot disintegrates around you,
you hit the ‘Eject’ button. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 176. If you are Unlucky, the ejection
system was destroyed in the fight, and your adven-
ture ends here.

126

You follow the signs to the Medical Library. There,
amid huge, dusty stacks of books, you begin your
search. Finally, in an old textbook, you find a clue to
help you. It describes a medicine that — so it says —
will instantly cure all types of sleeping sickness. If
you will try to compound this medication, turn to
104. If you would rather leave the hospital, turn to
210.

127

You park your robot outside the tunnel entrance
and slip inside, You don’t know what you expect to
find here, but you have never been in this tunnel
system, and its aura of secrecy attracts you, The
tunnels are dimly lit, but you can see well enough.
Soon you come to a turning. If you go right, turn to
15. If you go left, turn to 240.

128-129

Soon you arrive at a large clearing. In the middle of
the clearing is a huge plant with many spiky leaves.
In the centre of the plant, barely within reach, is a
stalk bearing several huge red-and-yellow blos-
soms. What will you do:

Examine the plant more carefully? Turn to 292
Pick a flower? Turn to 373
Circle around the plant and

continue? Turn to 33

129 .

if you fly over the jungle of the Preserve, turn to 252.
if you enter the jungle on the ground, turn to 117.
Note that with some robots, you have a choice
between flying or walking!

130-132

130
You draw back and freeze your robot into immobil-
ity, hugging the corner of a building. Amazingly,
they walk right by! You hear a scrap of talk on the
radio: ’. . . around here somewhere. , .‘ When they
have passed, you proceed to the hospital. Turn to
192.

131
if you are in the Wasp Fighter, turn to 359. If you are
in any other robot, turn to 378.

132
Still in your robot, you enter the fuel plant and look
around. The building is full of gleaming machinery
and stacked canisters of fuel, each worth its weight
in gold. But you see nothing that appears likely to
help you in your struggle. Furthermore, since your
robot was not designed to enter this dangerous
environment, you lose 1 STAMINA point because of
the radioactivity. Turn to 293.

EEE

133-136

133
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, you manage to
guide your crippled robot around the corner before
it collapses. Turn to 289. If you are Unlucky, the last
thing you see is the steel fist of the Karossean war
machine...

134
You try your best to sneak in without being seen —
but there are too many enemies about. If you have
an enemy uniform and want to wear it for this trip,

turn to 243. If not, turn to 266.

135
Quickly, you turn your robot. But you were seen. If
your robot's speed is Very Fast, turn to 293. Other-

wise, turn to 362.

136
The enemy fighter swoops around you, its guns
hammering. Your canopy cracks. From somewhere
behind you, you hear explosions. Then all is dark-
ness. Your adventure is over.

137
You are in the City of the Jungle. If you have been to
this city before, turn to 349 immediately. If this is
your first visit (no matter how many places you have
already been in the city) keep reading.

This is a relatively small city, a home for explorers,
gatherers of valuable plants and lovers of the
wilderness. Wild dinosaurs often walk the very
streets of the City of the Jungle. What will you do
here:

Explore the city?. Turn to 366
Explore the jungle?” Turn to 170
Leave the city? Turn to 298

138
The Ape throws several large chunks of metal at
you. Lose 2 ARMOUR points (if this reduces your
ARMOUR to 0, turn immediately to 61). When you
attack the Ape, it flees. You look around the junk-
yard, but the only useful things you see are too
heavy for you to move, and the junkyard equipment
is out of order. Turn to 110,
PO

EE

— =

139-140

139

Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, you aim your
valiant little robot right at the Pteranodon, A second
before the crash, you bail out! Lose 1 STAMINA
point for cuts and bruises. Your parachute brings
you to earth not far from a small village. Turn to 23.
If you are Unlucky, you cannot bail out in time. You
and your robot spiral together to a fiery doom.

140

When your instruments tell you that you have
penetrated to the heart of the storm, you take the
precious flask of Lavender Potion and unstopper it-
Quickly, you pour it through the ejection lock. It
diffuses in the air around you. You smile; you know
the storm will quickly carry it to every part of
Thalos,

When you land, the people of the City of Worship
are already awake. No Karosseansare in sight. Your
radio picks up scraps of chatter . . . everywhere,
your people are reviving and driving off the Karos-
sean invaders, You have saved your people, and
your adventure is over. You are a hero.

141

A claw-like leaf reaches in through a crack in the
armour. You scream and strike at it with your
sword, but to no avail. A mere human cannot hope
to stand against the appetite of the Man-trap Plant!
Your adventure is over.

142
Your mission is more important than this asinine
robot. You will have to deal with it by force.

GUARD ROBOT

Note that this robot is human-sized, and you fight it
as though it were a human foe. You may Escape at
any time by turning to 118. If you defeat the Guard
Robot, turn to 48.

SKILLS STAMINA10

———s =

143-144

143
You enter the National Treasure House. Normally

you would never be allowed inside — but now, who
is to stop you? You feast your eyes on gold bars of all
sizes, sacks of coins and bags of jewels. But you see
nothing that looks like a weapon. However, in the
warehouse area is a cargo-handling robot. You may
take it if you wish. If you have no robot right now,
you will certainly take it! This machine looks like a
gigantic crab, and is called a Cargo Crab, It has eight
legs, plus two huge claws for lifting cargo. Its
armoured back opens up to carry heavy loads.

CARGO CRAB
ARMOUR12 sPEEDSlow COMBATBONUSO
SPECIAL ABILITIES: The Cargo Crab can carry
large quantities of goods or equipment.

If you take the Cargo Crab, you must leave your
other robot (if any) at the Treasure House. Now turn
to 363.

144
You are in the City of Storms, This beautiful metro-
polis is on the sea-coast, and is often the site of
spectacular thunderstorms, Where would you like
to go:

The Weather Bureau? Turn to 260
The coast? Turn to 335
Another city? Turn to 43
145-147

145
The sentry is not fooled. He fires immediately, Lose
2 ARMOUR points and turn to 27,

146

Hall Beta proves to be a long walk away, through
great shadowed corridors. You soon realize that you
are lost. Eventually you come to a curtained exhibit-
room, The sign over the door reads ‘Favours of
Fortune’. But inside, you hear strange sounds - like
something large moving about, If you enter, turn to
202. If you go on past, turn to 168.

You are leaving the College of War. Where will you
£0:

The College of Medicine? Turn to 54
The Thalian Museum? Tur to 14
The Dinosaur Preserve? Turn to 66
Another city? Turn to 380

148-151

148
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 1. If youare
Unlucky, turn to 161.

149
Suddenly, you find yourself outside the temple.
Lose 1 LucK point for your unwillingness to take
chances. Return to 166; you may not visit this
temple again.

150
What would you like to do now:
Visit the College of Medicine? Turn to §4
Visit the College of War? Turn to 277
Visit the Thalian Museum? Turn to 14
Leave the City of Knowledge? ~ Turn to 380

151
You feel your robot tipping under you. A marshy
spot! Instinctively, you put ona burst of speed to get
past the danger. Turn to 237.
152-153

152

You move cautiously through the once busy streets.
In the distance you see a pair of enemy robots
striding along, but they take no notice of you. You
reach the hospital safely. Turn to 192.

153
You go down a street of tall buildings and turn a
corner. In front of you is a Karossean robot! But its
back is turned to you. What will you do:

Leave quietly? Turn to 290
Attack it? Turn to 311
Challenge it? Turn to 108

154-155

154
Lose 2 STAMINA points. Dazed and bleeding, you
are pulled from the wreckage of your robot. ‘This is
the trouble-maker, all night!’ you hear one Karos-
sean say. You do not have time to use medikits right
now! If you possess a Karossean uniform, turn to
241. Lf not, turn to 89.

155

You examine the smashed robot. Inside, you see its
pilot; he does not appear to be wounded, But as you
reach a metal claw towards his bubble, he stabs ata
control, His machine self-destructs! Your own robot
is thrown back several metres and you are shaken
up: lose 2 ARMOUR points and 2sTAMINA points, If
your ARMOUR has been reduced to 0, turn to 61.
Otherwise, turn to 65,
IR ey cages

156

156

The ground shakes, and from the shadows comes
another enemy war machine to confront you. From
within comes a radio transmission: “Thalian! This is
Minos! Now taste my wrath!" Your two robots ham-
mer at each other. Around you the Karossean camp
is going up in flames. You see a small fighter-robot
smashed by a single stray shot, Then you can spare
no attention for anything but the battle. The Super-
tank Minos is piloting is the biggest robot the Karos-
seans have. It looks like a vast, misshapen tank. A
huge gun blazes in front; elsewhere are smaller
weapons. Its arms are retracted for safety in the
battle,

SUPERTANK
ARMOUR 16 SPEED Slow SKILL 12
SPECIAL ABILITIES: Even on a round in which
the Supertank foses, you will take 1 point of
ARMOUR damage just from its smaller weapons!

If you defeat the Supertank and have some
ARMOUR points left for your own robot, turn to 354.
if it reduces your ARMOUR to zero (even if you
defeated it at the same time), turn to 6.

ae

————x=—--- - -_-

157-159

157
The rusty lift clangs shut and begins to ascend.
Higher and higher it goes. Then, with a shriek, the
cable snaps. The lift descends again, much faster.
When it stops, kilometres below the surface, your
adventure is over.

158
If you possess the Sword of State, turn to 242. If you
do not possess that sword, turn to 214.

159

Behind you, your other robot explodes. You dash
into the nearest building and down into the cellar.
To your surprise, the cellar is very large. In the
centre rests a silvery machine with a large corkscrew
at the nose. You jump in and close the hatch. The
machine starts up. This Borer Robot was designed
for travelling under the surface of the earth. It has
no weapons or armour, and cannot be used in
combat, As you tunnel into the earth, you hear the
building collapsing overhead. All the better . ..
they will be sure they have killed you. Turn to 338.

160
As you approach the museum, you see smoke rising
from in front of the building. A confused babble of
Karossean voices comes over the radio. If you con-
tinue, turn to 184. If you go elsewhere, turn to 63,
but do not choose to return to the museum!

161
You carefully examine the Robot Surgeon. A pair of
wires appears to be crossed. But when you switch
them, the machine comes alive and grabs you! It
seems to want to remove your appendix! Lose 1
STAMINA point immediately! You must fight the
berserk machine.

ROBOT SURGEON

The room is so small that you cannot Escape. If you
defeat the Robot Surgeon, turn to 126 to look for
information on sleeping sickness, or turn to 210 to
leave the building.

SKILL6 STAMINAS

FC

162-164

162
Your robot crashes to the ground, destroyed. You
hide in the wreckage until your assailant goes away.
Lose 1 STAMINA point for cuts and bruises. Then
you start hiking towards the small village you see on
the horizon. Turn to 13.

163

In the Weather Bureau, you find banks of humming
instruments. You also find a printout that explains
the flags you saw outside, Apparently a huge storm
is due to hit Thalos in a few hours. It will come
ashore at the City of Worship, and die away as it
rolls over the rest of the land. If you possess a flask
of Potion, turn to 213. If not, turn to 144.

164
You wander about the Capitol Building until a flick-
ering begins to warn you that the Cloak is running
down, Quickly you head back to your robot. Turn to
308.

165-166

165
You are in the City of Pleasure. It is your country’s
vacation spot, where rich and poor alike come to
partake of a thousand different amusements. What
would you like to do:

Visit the arcades? Turn to 288
Visit the airfield? Turn to 41
Leave the city? - Turn to 131

166
You are in the City of Worship. If you have been to
this city before, turn to 67 immediately. If this is
your first visit to the city (regardless of how many
parts of the city you have been to on this visit), then
keep reading.

The whole of this metropolis is devoted to shrines,
temples, churches, cemeteries and the like. It is
always a quiet place, but you have never before seen
it this quiet. Only the call of a sea-bird breaks the
stillness. An uneasy thought occurs to you. If you
are the only Thalian awake, then the attention of all
the Powers must be focused on you personally.
Your visit to the City of Worship might be rather. . -
interesting, What would you like to do:

Visit one of the temples? Turn to 49
Fly over the city (if you have

a flying robot)? Turn to 227
Go to another city? Turn to 244
~~ - Bae es:
= ——— z ae
~~ feo, £c.
¢< » d ~ seer “hes!
a OE Oe, em Fae Or

167
You have chosen a versatile but powerful humanoid
robot, a Trouper XI. This is the standard Thalian
combat robot. It has two forms: it can shape itsélf
into a giant metal warrior, or into a sleek combat
plane.

TROOPER XI

Human Form
ARMOURi2 sPEED Medium
COMBAT BONUS +2

Plane Form
ARMOURIO $PEED Very Fast
COMBATBONUS +2
SPECIAL ABILITIES: In human form, the Trooper
XI carries a gun in one hand and a shield in the
other. On an Attack Strength roll of 18 or better,
even if the enemy hits it, the robot gets the shield
in the way and takes no damage. In plane form,
the robot has no special combat abilities.

ee

Sl

168

It takes one combat turn to change forms. During
that turn, the robot makes its normal combat roll,
but if it wins, it does no damage to the foe — it just
defends itself. The shield does mot protect it on this
turn.

You may take one of these robots if you like (there
are many here). If you take one and leave, turn to

376. Or, if you would prefer a tank robot instead,
turn to 247.

168
You continue on your way towards Hall Beta and
the military exhibition. When you arrive, it proves
to be ancient history. The strange sounds from the
building are making you nervous, and you have no
desire to read about catapults and other ancient
devices, You go back to the main desk. Return to 14.

169
169

You must fight the enemy robots. There are two of
them, both Tripod Robots, These speedy machines
walk about on three legs; they have metal tentacle-
arms that can carry guns or other devices. You
recognize them as handling-machines belonging to
the fuel plant. The Karosseans have taken them
over as guard robots! You must fight them both at
once,

Each Tripod will have a separate attack on you in
each Attack Round, but you must choose which of
the two you will fight. Attack your chosen foe each
round as in a normal battle. Against the other you
must throw for your Attack Strength in the normal
way, but even if your Attack Strength is greater,
you will not wound it. You must just count this as
though you have defended yourself from it.
However, if its Attack Strength is greater, it will
damage your robot in the usual way,

First TRIPOD

ARMOUR? SPEED Fast SKILL §
Second TRIPOD

ARMOUR? SPEED Fast SKILL10

SPECIAL ABILITIES: None

If you Escape, turn to 293. If you defeat both Tripods,
turn to 30, If your robot is defeated, turn to 336.
es oe eee

170
How are you equipped for this trip:
A flying robot? Turn to 285
Anon-flying robot? Turn to 356
No robot at all? Turn to 64

1

If you have already opened this building, turn im-
mediately to 231. Otherwise, keep reading. You
walk around the barn-like building and examine it.
The walls are built of heavy metal, and the only door
you can find is huge. A sign on the door reads,
‘DANGER! KEEP our!’ What will you do:

Open the door? Turn to 212
Go to the Administrative Building

(if you have not already done so)? Turn to 85
Get in your robot and cross the

electro-fence? Turn to 129
Leave the Dinosaur Preserve? Turn to 150

>=

a

ee eee

172-174

172
You’re spotted! One of them raises a huge weapon
and points it at you. ‘What's the password?’ it
broadcasts, What will you say:

‘Seven’? Turn to 262
‘Two-oh-three’? Turn to 203
‘Eighty-eight’? Turn to 88

173
You give one of the passwords you have learned.
But it is of no use. Soon, you are chained to a wall,
awaiting the pleasure of Minos. Your adventure is
over.

174
You cautiously search through the building. Tes!
your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 259. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 144.
Det A co eases hh |

1735-177

175

The computer guides you to the main building of
the City of the Guardians. You get out of your robot
to investigate. Unfortunately, you soon learn that
‘Level Zero’ means your security clearance is very
low, The Guardian Computer cannot or will not
give you full access to the secrets of the base,
However, it does seem willing to let you exchange
your current robot fora high-powered war robot. (If
you do so, make a note of the fact that your old robot
remains here.) Will you select a slow, powerful tank
robot (turn to 247), or a speedy shape-changing
humanoid/plane robot (turn to 167)? If you prefer to
keep your current robot, turn to 376.

176

You pop out of the doomed flyer a second before it
explodes. The enemy robots shoot past, without
seeing you. You feel a tug on your harness — and
over you spread the wings of a parasail! You find
you can guide it as you please. If you steer for the
heart of the enemy encampment, where a crowd of
men are looking up at you, turn to 205. If you steer
away and try to lose yourself in the buildings, turn
to 226.

177
Your trick is successful. The enemy pilot sees your
uniform and lets you go without asking for the
password. He ignores you as you go past him
peacefully. Turn to 65.

178-181

178
The tunnel seems to descend for ever. You feel
fatigued. Lose 1 STAMINA point. Eventually, it
reaches a landing. You take the stairway up: tum

to 94.

179
An hour into your trip, a powerful storm strikes. If
your robot is a flying type, turn to 280. Otherwise,
you ride out the storm safely on the ground and
then resume your journey: turn to 144.

180

Just as you are about ready to give up, you stumble
across an interesting book on the duelling customs
of the Karosseans. Apparently the ancient Karos-
seans would settle a tribal dispute by choosing
champions = one from each tribe — instead of allow-
ing a battle between the whole tribes, The reference
number of the book is 111. Make a note of this and
turn to 224.

181
Roll two dice. If the result is less than or equal to
your SKILL, turn to 28. If the result is greater than
your SKILL, turn to 318.

NO ADMITTANCE(__1

Oey ARS

-

—

182-183

182
When you leave the lift on the third floor, you
immediately spy a man-sized Guard Robot standing
in the hallway. ‘Sorry. No admittance,’ squawks its
mechanical voice. What will you do:

Try to reason with the robot? Turn to 295
Attack the robot? Turn to 142
Go to another floor? Turn to 333

183

You push the ‘Eject’ button, To your surprise, your
cockpit separates and takes off on its own! A second
later, the rest of your robot explodes. Seeing the
explosion, the Wasp loops away and disappears.
You take stock of your new craft: the cockpit of your
robot has grown stubby wings and short grasping
arms. Itis a tiny flying robot, just big enough to hold
you — but enough to get you to your destination.

ESCAPE ROBOT
ARMOUR1 SPEED Very Fast COMBATBONUSO

Turn to 137.

St ]_—  ———

184-185
184

You continue towards the museum. When you
arrive, you see a strange sight! Two Karossean
utility robots are lying wrecked in front of the build-
ing. Several Karossean soldiers are also sprawled
unmoving. A huge, gleaming, metal Tyranno-
saurus is walking in jerky circles in front of the
museum, You recognize itas the robot dinosaur that
was part of the museum's prize exhibit. The Karos-
seans must have meddled and activated it!

You are tempted to leave it alone to harass the foe.
On the other hand, itis likely to cause damage to the
buildings and your sleeping countrymen as well. If
you attack the Robot Tyrannosaurus, turn to 207. If
you leave it alone and go elsewhere, turn to 63, but
do not choose to return to the museum!

185
Soon, you spot a sign saying ‘suRGERY’. Following
it, you see a robot surgeon over a table. But it is
marked ‘out OF ORDER’. If you will try to find what
is wrong and repair it, turn to 148, If you leave it
alone and look forinformation on sleeping sickness,
turn to 126,

Ke Rc

186-188

186 ‘
Not long ago you passed a village. There might be
something useful there. If you want to check, furn
to 73. If you want to press on to the City of Know-
ledge, turn to 361-

187

You have not gone far before you have to pass
through a narrow gate that leads into the outer part
of the stadium. There, you are challenged by a
group of robots. ‘Eighty-eight!’ comes the pass-
word, If you know the countersign, turn to that
number. If not, turn to 50.

188
Your path narrows; the ground underfoot seems
marshy. Roll two dice. If the result is less than or
equal to your SKILL for robot control, turn to 151. If
the result is greater than your SKILL, turn to 312.
189-191

189
Everything seems to be as you left it. The Karos-
seans have no interest in this area, and no desire to
get any closer to the monsters than they have to!
What will you do:

Leave your robot and go to the

Administrative Building? Turn to 85
Leave your robot and go to the

other building? Turn to 171
Stay in your robot and cross the

electro-fence? Turn to 129
Leave the Dinosaur Preserve? Turn to 150

190
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, you can get behind
the case and remove the sword without either guard
being the wiser. You hide it under your Cloak and
leave the Capitol Building (turn to 296). If you are
Unlucky, one of the guards notices the sword
seemingly hanging in mid-air. Turn to 215 and fight,

191
If you had a robot, lose 1sTAMINA point as you are
thrown from the wreckage. If you are still alive, you
flee on foot as the Nothosaurus demolishes your
robot. If you have not already explored the south of
the city, you may do so (turn to 225), Otherwise,
you flee into the jungle (turn to 64).

192-194

192

You arrive safely at the Capital City hospital. You
can see that you will have to be careful; you hear
voices echoing through the halls. If you possess the
Cloak of Invisibility and have not used it, you may
use it now (turn to 29). [If you have already used it,
do not have it, or simply choose not to use it now,
turn to 74.

193
You enter the huge black building. You feel a tremor
of uncertainty. As usual, you see sleepers every-
where — but are they really asleep? They look dead!
You lift the wrist of the nearest one and check fora
pulse. You feel nothing! You look wildly around
you, but see nothing. Yet you are terrified . . .

Screaming, you run back outside into the sunlight.
When you escape from the temple, the irrational
fear vanishes as quickly as it came. But you are still
shaking. Reduce your sk1Lt by 1. If you get hold of
yourself and re-enter the grim temple, turn to 327.
Otherwise, return to 166.

194

The other robot's control bubble springs open, and
out flies the Karossean soldier who was piloting it!
His unfamiliarity with the controls was fatal: he hit
the ejection lever by mistake! He falls under the
wheels of his own machine and is lost. If you wish,
you can take the Construction Robot instead of your
current robot. Its COMBAT BONUS is o. Whether or
not you take it, turn back to 308.
—————EE——eoowe ee ss lc eee OO

(ype .

a

pri

195-198

195

At the outskirts of the city, you find a huge robot
junkyard. If you have been here before, turn to 82,
Otherwise, keep reading. As far as the eye can see,
scrapped and damaged robots and pieces of robots
are standing, sitting and lying on the ground. But
out of the corner of your eye, you see motion.
Something seems to be watching you from behind a
pile of scrap! If you investigate the junkyard, turn to
370. If you leave, turn to 110,

196
You soon outdistance the stampeding dinosaurs.
You return to the city, Turn to 144.

197
If you have already been challenged by Karossean
soldiers using a number as a password, and you
remember that number, turn to that reference.
Otherwise, turn to 236.

198
Just in time, you realize that the lobby is full of
Guard Robots like the one you fought before, You
quickly return to your robotand leave the area of the
Centre. Turn to 206 and make a new choice,

199-201

199
Your gamble is successful. The enemy pilot has no
reason to believe that any Thalians are awake, so he
assumes you must be a friend. He ignores you as
you go past him peacefully, Turn to 65.

200
Because of the practice you got in the arcade game,
you know how to handle this robot properly. Turn

to 378.

201
You watch carefully. When your chance comes, you
strike! The tyrant falls dead! You attack the other
nearby officers. With your Cloak of Invisibility, you
are like an avenging demon among them. But there
are dozens of them, and they are brave fighters.
Eventually, though they can see only your blade,
they pull you down by sheer numbers. Your adven-
ture is over. You destroyed the tyrant, but your land
is still enslaved. You have failed . . . but it was a
glorious failure!

202-203

202

To your relief, the sounds you heard were merely
the snoring of a very fat man, asleep in a chair. The
room is dedicated to exhibits having to do with good
and bad luck. You pause to look around. Then your
eye is drawn by a display-case at the far end of the
room. It must be important— there were two guards
beside it! They are still there, fast asleep.

The case contains a jewelled necklace, rather crude-
ly made. But according to the sign on the case, itis a
genuine, scientifically proven good-luck charm.
This looks as though it might be worth borrowing!
You open the case and take the Luck Amulet. Some-
where, you hearan alarm go off, so you hurry away.
But the charm is real. Increase your LUCK score (and
your Initial Luck) by 1. You go on towards Hall Beta.
Turn to 168.

203
‘Wrong, Thalian!’ comes the enemy voice. Then
both robots attack. Amazingly, one misses! Still,
you lose 2 ARMOUR points. Turn to 281.
204-205

204
Why bother, indeed? There seems to be no reason to
do anything, and every reason to do nothing. After
a while you leave the temple, since nothing is there.
When you see the sun again, some of your energy
comes back. But you still feel drained. Reduce your
STAMINA to 4, ifit was higher than 4. Return to 166.

205

You steer right for the crowd. Amazingly, no one
attacks you! You make a creditable landing in the
middle of a circle of gaudily uniformed Karosseans.
You know that your only chance now is to put on as
good a show as possible. If you know something
that might help you now, turn to the reference
number that came with that information. If not, turn
to 228,

206-207
RATE

Y

206

You are back in your robot. If you want to explore
elsewhere in the City of Industry, return to 265 and
pick a new destination. If you want to go to another

city, turn to 309.

207
You decide to fight. The Robot Tyrannosaurus is an
intricate device, shaped just like a Tyrannosaurus,
but all gears and metal — and tougher than a real
dinosaur. It has no pilot, but runs on a pre-set (and
very destructive) program,

ROBOT TYRANNOSAURUS

ARMOUR11 SPEED Fast SKILL 10

If you defeat it, turn to 230. If it defeats you, turn to
255. If you Escape, turn to 52.

Sa ————

ae * ow

208

208
It looks like a gigantic snake! But as you approach,
you see itis actually a robot, a Serpent VII. This unit
was designed to track and hunt dinosaurs. It has no
legs; its gripper-arms fold against the body when
not in use. Its shape gives it good mobility in the
jungle.

SERPENT VII
ARMOUR
SPEED Fast in jungle; Medium elsewhere
COMBAT BONUS +1
SPECIAL ABILITIES: Any time the Serpent's
Attack Roll is 16 or better, it can coil around its foe.
From then on, it automatically does 1 extra point
of damage each combat round, regardless of who
wins, until it flees or one combatant is destroyed,
This does not apply to flying foes.

If you like, you can take the Serpent VII. If you
already have a robot, make a note of the fact; that
robot will be here should you return. If you have not
already explored to the north, you may do so by
turning to 16. Or you may leave off exploring the
city and turn to 137.

~~ — Ts
_—— vies | a

209

You set a course for the City of Industry, a place of
great factories and machinery. There, you reason,
you might find a robot or invention that would give
you an advantage over the invaders. If you are in the
Dragonfly Robot, turn to 265. If you are in the
Cowboy Robot, turn to 39.

210
You decide to leave the College of Medicine. You
climb back into your trusty robot. Where will you go

now:

To the College of War? Turn to 277

To the Thalian Museum? Turn to 14

To the Dinosaur Preserve? Turn to 66

Out of the city? Turn to 380
211

You quickly pass the flower in through a port. You
unstopper your flask of Potion and drop the flower
in. The Potion changes colour to lavender, But, as
you put the Lavender Potion safely away, you hear
a scratching noise from outside. Turn to 248,

i
om oe

212-214

212

You have a hunch that the barn-like building may
contain something of importance. But the door is far
too heavy for you to budge. Getting back into your
robot, you use its strength to slide open the huge
door. Inside you see more robots! Turn to 9.

213
You realize that this may be just the chance you
have been looking for! If you released your Potion
into the heart of the storm, it would soon be distri-
buted all over Thalos. But to do this, you will require
a flying robot, and you will have to get to the City of
Worship. Return to 144.

214
Minos is a huge, burly man with a curling black
beard. His uniform is gold-encrusted and ornate.
He studies you with amusement, ‘Duel you?’ he
says, ‘Why should I duel you, Thalian vermin?’ ‘I’m
the only Thalian awake!’ you reply. ‘You have to duel
me! | demand it!’ Around Minos, the other officers
mutter. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 314.
If you are Unlucky, turn to 297.

“= ~

215-217

215
The guards are not prepared to fight an invisible
opponent. Normally crack troops, their SKILL is low
for this fight because of their surprise. Fight them
one at a time:

First GUARD SKILL5 STAMINAS
Second GUARD SKILL4 STAMINA

Because of your Cloak, you can Escape, if need be,
without taking a wound. If you grab the sword and
Escape, turn to 296. If you defeat the guards, turn to

334-

216
Lose 1 LUCK point for cowardice. Return to 308.

2i7
Fight them as a single enemy:

MINI-ROBOTS
ARMOUR Q SPEED Fast
SPECIAL ABILITIES: None

SKILL 10

If you Escape, turn to 278. If you defeat the Mini-
robots, return to 166 and choose from the options
given there. If your ARMOUR is reduced to 0, the
Karosseans swarm over you, and your adventure
ends here.

218-220

218

You realize that you have stumbled on to a top-
secret military base. Frantically, you tell the com-
puter what has happened. Test your Luck. If you
are Lucky, turn to 337- If you are Unlucky, turn to 2.

219
if you are wearing a Karossean uniform, turn to 303.
If not, turn to 12.

220
Since your robot is not designed for cargo, you can
carry only a small amount of gold. If you want to
load up what you can, turn to 287. If you leave
empty-handed, turn to 308.

om, OS

221-223

221
You sit down in the seat. Instantly, you find your-
self at the controls of a sleek fighter - the ex-
perimental Wasp 200! For twenty minutes you seem
to fly through the skies, pursuing enemy robots,
Then a timer buzzes and you find yourself back at
the Arcade. In front of you, a screen is blinking
‘Advanced Game Ready!’ You have earned extra -
time. If you decide to play the extra time, turn to
324. If you leave this game, turn to 288.

222
‘Pass, friend!’ the sentry robot transmits. ‘But don’t
go past the next ring. That's officer country." If you
continue in your robot, turn to 76. If you enter on
foot, turn to 32.

223
From within his robot, the Karossean sentry chal-
lenges you. Your reply does not satisfy him. You
must fight! Turn to 78.

224-225

224

You leave the military display and take a short cut
through a hallway overlooking a huge gallery. As
you look down, you are surprised to see devasta-
tion! A huge area of exhibits has been demolished,
Two black-clad Karossean soldiers are lying there,
dead or wounded, and a trail of devastation leads
right through a huge hole in the wall. You hear
shouts from below. If you would like to go down
and investigate, turn to 374. If you would rather
avoid the area and head back towards the informa-
tion desk, return to 14.

225
You go south through the deserted city. Small
lizards scuttle about. You remember that you are
not far from the edge of the jungle here. Ahead you
see a long, gleaming shape, like a huge length of
mottled pipe. What will you do:

Investigate it? Turn to 208
Turn around and search the north (if

you have not done so already)? Turn to 16
Abandon your city exploration? Turn to 137

226—229

226
You steer towards an area of wooded parkland,
hoping to escape. But they are tracking you, When
you land, you are surrounded almost before you can
remove your harness, and taken off to prison, A
good try — but not good enough. Your adventure is
over.

227
A violent storm is coming from over the ocean; it
will strike land in minutes. If you fly into the storm,
turn to 12. If you fly inland, away from the storm
and the city, turn to 244.

228
If you try to bluff your way out of this situation, turn
to 267. If you try to fight your way past, turn to 283.

229
On the tenth floor, you find an incredible confusion
of cubbyholes, and nothing that looks like a robot or
device. There are tall bookshelves everywhere, and
more books on the floor and the desks. If you
continue to investigate, turn to 360. [f you return to
the lobby, turn to 333.
230-231

230
You have defeated your strange foe. It falls, a smok-
ing wreck. Regain 2 Luck points for defending your
people from this unusual menace. You know the
battle will soon draw Karossean attention, and you
had better not come back here. You leave; you may
not return to the museum again. Turn to 63.

231
The barn-like building where you found the robots
is also as you left it. Your old robot is there — you
may take it back if you like. Or you may get another
Super-Cowboy Robot. What will you do now:

Walk over to the Administrative

Building? Turn to 85
Get in your robot and cross the

electro-fence? Turn to 129
Leave the Dinosaur Preserve? Turn to 150

2327-233

232
As you walk down the corridors of the hospital, you
hear a strange squeaking and rustling noise coming
from all around you. You see by the signs that you
are in the Research Lab section. The noise does not
sound human — but it is certainly no robot! You feel
better with your sword in hand.

You step through a pair of double doors, intoaroom
full of large wire cages. You see that some are
opened. Then you realize what the sounds were.
The hospital's experimental animals have escaped
.. . and they are hungry!

You turn to run, but your way is blocked. You are
facing three Giant Lizards! Backing into the corner
of the room, you may fight them one at a time, in
order. You cannot try to Escape until you have slain
the first two.

SKILL STAMINA

First GIANT LIZARD 7 4
Second GIANT LIZARD 6 6
Third GIANT LIZARD 7 5
If you defeat all three Giant Lizards, or if you
successfully Escape, turn to 254.

233

If your robot is a humanoid type, turn to 351.
Otherwise, turn to 318.
a

SFPD y Sey

234-236

234

You speak calmly to the Ape, and it begins to caper
and grunt. It is a pet, kept to help around the yard!
You look around the junkyard, but the only useful
things you see are too heavy for you to move, and
the junkyard equipment is out of order. Then the
Ape, which has been watching you, lends a hand.
Deftly, it takes apart the robot you have been study-
ing, and carries the parts as you indicate. With the
help of the Ape, you may repair up to 4 ARMOUR
points on your robot, if that many had been lost.
Turn to 110,

235
Your robot is scratched and dented, but you have
won, Lose 1STAMINA point for the bruises you took
when the monster knocked your robot over. You
continue on your way towards the City of Industry.
Turn to 265.

236
Over the radio comes a challenge: ‘Eighty-eight!" If
you know the countersign that is required for that
password, turn to the number of the countersign. If
you do not know the proper response, turn to 389.

237-238

237

You continue through the jungle. It is hard going;
hidden pits and logs take their toll on your robot.
Reduce its ARMOUR by 2. (If this reduces its
ARMOUR to o or less, leave its ARMOUR at 1.)
Eventually, the city comes into view; you are re-
lieved! But, as you enter it, you twice see flying
Karossean robots patrolling overhead. Each time
you hold your own robot motionless and they over-
look you. But you realize that this city is no longer
safe; there are Karosseans everywhere. If you came
to this city in another robot and you would like to
switch back to it, turn to 45. If you stay in your
current robot to leave the city, turn ta 298.

238
You eject from the battered robot and run for your
life. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, you evade
pursuit: return to 308 (without your robot!), If you
are Unlucky, your adventure ends here in capture
and defeat.

239
You attack the Iguanodon thatis blocking your way.
This plant-eating dinosaur walks on two legs. It is
tough and heavy-set, and its spiky ‘thumbs’ are
good weapons.

IGUANODON

ARMOURS5 SPEED Medium SKILL

You cannot Escape. If you defeat the Iguanodon,
turn to 137. If your robot’s ARMOUR is reduced too,
turn to 306,

240
The tunnel winds until you have fost all sense of
direction, Then it forks. One fork seems to go up;
the other turns downward. If you go up, turn to 72.
if you go down, turn to 15.

241

Your captors do not even discuss what to do with
you; they stand you against a wall and shoot you as
a spy. Your adventure is over.
242-243

242
Minos is a huge, burly man with a curling black
beard. His uniform is gold-encrusted and ornate.
He studies you with amusement, “Duel you?’ he
says. ‘Why should I duel you, Thalian vermin?’ ‘I’m
the only Thalian awake!’ you reply. ‘And I have the
Sword of State! That makes me the representative of
all Thalos! You have to duel met’

Around Minos, the other officers mutter. ‘He's
tight,’ says one, ‘Tt’s the law,’ you hear another say.
Others agree with them. Minos frowns angrily.
Then he laughs. ‘Very well, since you insist!’ he
says. ‘We will fight. Right now!’ The Sword of State
is returned to you, You may now fight Minos him-
self! Turn to 330.

With the uniform, you try to bluff your way in. But
soon a beribboned officer calls to you, ‘Sergeant!
Over here!’ You have no hope of bluffing it out. You
dash around a corner, rip the uniform off and keep
running. By the time a patrol rounds the corner, you
are across the street, feigning sleep. But you will not
be able to enter the Capitol Building. Lose 1 point of
STAMINA. You return to your robot. Turn to 308.

244
You are leaving the City of Worship. Where would
you like to go:

The Capital City? Turn to 308
The City of Knowledge? Turn to 361
The City of Storms? Turn to 144

245
You are blasted out of the sky. Your adventure ends
here.

246
As you jet through the water, you see a huge
shadow swimming to intercept you. It is a Tylo-
saurus, one of the most feared of marine dinosaurs.
This monster looks like a cross between a huge,
toothy lizard and a shark; it has finny paddles
instead of legs. It normally lives on fish, but is

willing to try a robot for variety!
TYLOSAURUS
ARMOUR G SPEED Medium SKILL 10

Note that, in the water, your robot's speed is also
Medium, so neither of you has a disadvantage. If
you lose this battle, you will be drowned or eaten, if
not both. If you win, turn to 201.
247

You have chosen a powerful Robotank. This fear-
some war machine looks like a human from the
waist up. From the waist down, it is a huge tank,
with terrible twin guns. It is one of the few ‘battle-
line’ machines your land possesses.

ROBOTANK
ARMOURI8 SPEED Slow
COMBAT BONUS +2
SPECIAL ABILITIES: The Robotank contains a
special Sonic Gun in one hand. It cannot be used
by any other robot. It may be fired once per
combat turn, in addition to the Robotank’s regu-
lar attack. However, it may be used only three
times in all; then it is useless. When fired, the
sonic Gun is instantly deadly to unprotected
humans. Against a robot, roll one die to see how
many ARMOUR points the target loses, Against a
dinosaur, roll two dice to see how many ARMOUR
points the target loses.

There are three of these robots here. You may take
one and leave (turn to 376), or, if you prefer, you
may turn to 167 to take a faster robot.

248-250

248
The spiky leaves reach towards you, and the flower
stalk pulls back to show a fanged mouth. The plant
is hungry!

MAN-TRAP PLANT
ARMOURS SPEED see below SKILLOQ

Since the Man-trap Plant has caught hold of you
before the battle starts, differences in Speed do not
matter, You cannot Escape. If you defeat the Man-
trap Plant, turn to 97. If it reduces your ARMOUR to
0, turn to 141,

249
You decide to visit the Temple of Nothingness. You

have never been there before, and you have no idea
what to expect. When you arrive, you see the usual
sprawled forms on the sidewalk in front, Several
were carrying signs and placards. Were they protes-
tors? You look ata sign; it reads, ‘Nothing is wrong,’
If you would rather not get involved with this
strange bit of business, you may return to 166. If you
want to go inside, turn to 123.

250

You waye to the robot and start to leave. . . butas
you do, alarms go off and lights flash. ‘I’m very
sorry,’ says the robot, ‘but museum property has
been removed without authorization. You cannot
leave.’ Its metal arms reach out towards you, Roll
two dice. If the number you roll is less than or equal
to your SKILL, turn to 272, Otherwise, turn to 294.

251-254

251
You have returned to the Robot Experimental Cen-
tre. If you acquired the Seeker Missile on a previous
visit, turn to 198. If not, turn to 333.

252
You soar over the jungle of the Dinosaur Preserve,
but see nothing of interest. You don’t know what
you expected to find out here, anyway! You decide
to leave. Turn to 150.

253
You demand the right, as a representative of your
people, to duel Minos. The officer in charge shakes
his head. ‘Search him!’ he orders his men. Your
heart sinks, You are stripped of all your Possessions
(including medikits). But then the sentries take you
directly to Minos himself. Turn to 158.

254
Near by you hear more squeaking and shuffling.
There were many more than three opened cages in
the lab. If you search through the lab, turn to 276. If
you leave the College of Medicine, turn to 210.
255-256

255
Your robot falls, torn by the shining steel teeth of the
mechanical enemy. Lose 2 STAMINA points. As
soon as your robot stops moving, your foe loses
interest and goes tramping away. When it is gone,
you investigate your surroundings. You find that
one of the wrecked Karossean robots is still just
usable. You get in and check it out. It is a general-
purpose Karossean robot, humanoid in shape. It
has been badly battered, so your COMBAT BONUS is
negative while you are in it.

UTILITY ROBOT
ARMOUR4 SPEEDSIow COMBATBONUS—2

SPECIAL ABILITIES: None

Your only thought is to get away as quickly as
possible. You know that your unsuccessful battle
will soon draw Karossean attention, and you had
better not come back here. You leave; you may not
return to the museum again. Turn to 63.

256

The book gives you the location of the City of the
Guardians, the secret base that is the headquarters
of the army of Thalos. The map reference is 22.
Make a note of this number. Substitute it for XX’
when you are given the option to visit the City of the
Guardians. You may find another use for the map
reference, as well. For now, of course, you must
deal with the Karosseans outside the building you
are in! Turn to 368.

*57—-259

257
You try the advanced game. . . butitis far too hard
for you. Over and over you are shot down. When
your timeis up, you emerge, shaking. That machine
aay realistic! Lose 1 point of STAMINA. Return
0 288,

258
The dinosaur is not satisfied with its victory. Rip-
ping and tearing, it demolishes your robot com-
pletely. It knows that the robot isn’t good to eat, but
it smells meat somewhere! Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 282, If you are Unlucky, turn to 391.

259
You spy an open closet in an adjoining room. Inside
you-can see a medikit! You investigate; sure
enough, the rest of your Possessions are here! You
hastily collect them all and escape through a conve-
nient window. Turn to 69,

_ ~~

a ge ae
= ee : Te Kage Coxe
260-261

260
Flying over the Weather Bureau are the two red
flags that you know mean ‘STORM WARNING!"
Parked outside the building you see another robot, a
Walker Robot. Designed primarily for travel, this
robot has four jointed legs that carry it swiftly over
any terrain.

WALKER ROBOT
ARMOUR6 SPEED Fast COMBATBONUS ~1
SPECIAL ABILITIES: None

If you like, you may exchange this robot for your
own. If you come back to this spot after exchanging,
your own robot may still be here; make a note that
this is where you are leaving it. If you go inside the
Weather Bureau, turn to 163. If you go on past, turn

to 144.

261
You turn aside and leave your own robot in order to
examine this one. It is low-slung and seems spiky.
You see that it is bristling with weapons, which is
what gives the Hedgehog Robot its name. It was
designed for air defence against flying dinosaurs,
but it is equally effective against flying robots.

HEDGEHOG ROBOT
ARMOURS SPEED Slow
COMBAT BONUSO OTF +3
SPECIAL ABILITIES: Against flying foes, the
Hedgehog has a COMBAT BONUS Of +3, Which
more than cancels out its disadvantage in speed.
262-263

If you like, you may exchange your present robot for
this one. If you do so, make a note that your old
robot is now parked here instead of the Hedgehog.
If you go on towards the Temple of Fear, turn to 57.
If you return the way you came, turn to 166.

262
There is a brief buzz of conversation between your
enemies. Your answer seems to have confused
them. If you decide to attack immediately, turn to
281. If you stand your ground without attacking,
turn to 203.

263

It is a large Crawler Robot. The crew, of course, is
asleep, and you do not want to take their robot and
leave them to the jungle. But within the robot is an
interesting piece of equipment, like nothing you
have ever seen. Reading the Crawler pilot's orders,
you see the following: ‘. . . experimental Tangier
Field works on flying machines — but not always.
Your orders are to test it against flying dinosaurs
immediately,” Beneath this is written, in large red
letters, ‘NO GOOD!’

You may add the Tangler Field to your Possessions
and continue. If you explore the other path of the
jungle, turn to 73. If you want to go elsewhere, turn
to 137.

264-266

264
Your attack catches the enemy by surprise. Turn to
27, but you automatically win the first combat round
without rolling!

265
You are in the City of Industry. Normally, it is busy
and bustling, but now you see no life anywhere.
Everyone is asleep . . . everyone but you. Where
will you go in your quest for useful artefacts:

The Fuel-refining Plant? Turn to 105

The Robot Experimental Centre? Turn to 25

The tunnels underneath the city? Turn to 127

Just explore? Turn to 34

Leave the city? Turn to 309
266

The building is crawling with Karosseans. There is
no point in even thinking about entering. You re-
turn to your robot. Turn to 308.
267-269
267

‘I've got an important message for Minos himself!
you shout. ‘You've got to let me through!’ But your
bluff does not work. They drag you away and throw
you into the slave-pits. Your adventure is over.

268
It is a complete book of instructions on handling all
types of enemy combat robots! You laugh, thinking
of the surprise you can now give the Karosseans, if
you get the chance. Turn to 368.

269
Which button will you press:
Green? Turn to 369
Red? Turn to 157
Blue? Turn to 44

270-272

270
You are shaken up; lose 1 STAMINA point. Because
of the narrow jungle trails, your robot takes 3 points
of damage as it escapes. If this is enough to bring its
ARMOUR to 0, turn to 310. Otherwise, you flee the
jungle: turn to 189.

271
Well, this is war. You circle behind the hapless
sentry — then rush him. Your sword swings silently
and he is dead. Turn to 143.

272
You dodge underneath the mechanical arms with
which it is trying to stop you, and through the door.
You quickly climb into the control seat of your robot.

Turn to 396,
273-276

273
You find nothing else of interest in the shop. As you
leave, the hammering noise continues behind you.
The repair shop is awake, even if its masters are
asleep. Turn to 210.

274
If you are flying, turn to 341. If you are travelling on
the ground, turn to 5.

275

Your battle has caused great confusion. Stray shots
are wreaking havoc among the Karosseans and their
lesser robots. But now a group of sleek fighter-craft
swoop out of the sky to challenge you. If you have
the Tangler Field and wish to activate it, turn to 301.
If you do not have this device (or do not wish to use
it), turn to 326.

276
This is a fatal error. Minutes later, you are trapped
in a dead-end corridor by dozens of hunger-
maddened laboratory animals, many of which are
mutations —a most embarrassing end fora hero -, .
277-279

277

The College of War is easy to find; it is a huge
five-sided building built all of brick. If you have
been here before, turn to 332. If you have not been
here before, keep reading. A robot of unfamiliar
design is standing in front of the building. You
recognize it as a Karossean military robot. What will
you do:

Attack immediately? Turn to 46
Try to pass as one of the invaders? Turn to 87
Leave before you are noticed? Turn to 147
278
What will you do now:
Fly into the storm (if you have
a flying robot)? Turn to 12
Leave the city, travelling on
the ground? Turn to 244
Explore the temples? Turn to 49
279

Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 191. If you
are Unlucky, turn to 121.

280-281

Roll one die. If you roll 1 or 2, turn to 122. If you roll
3, 4,5 or 6, turn to 144.

281
Fight the two enemy Myrmidon robots, one at a
time. The Myrmidon is the standard Karossean
combat robot, It has two forms — humanoid and
fighter-plane. These are in humanoid form and will
not try to change during the battle.

First MYRMIDON

ARMOUR11 SPEED Medium SKILL 10
Second MYRMIDON

ARMOUR 12 SPEED Medium SKILL 9

SPECIAL ABILITIES: None in this combat

If you defeat the two robots, turn to 192. If they
reduce your robot's ARMOUR to 0, turn to 238. If
you Escape, turn to 308.
While the Tyrannosaurus is tearing up the robot's
torso, you dodge out of the cockpit, grab your
backpack with your supplies and run into the shel-
ter of the boulders. Lose 3 STAMINA points for your
injuries. You carefully depart, and gradually the
sounds of roaring and destruction fade into the
distance. Turn to 367.

283
You fight bravely, but there is no way you could
possibly prevail against such numbers. Though you
take several invaders with you, you are slain.

284-285

284

Flying over the sea-coast, you see nothing of in-
terest except a huge herd of dinosaurs. They are
clustered around something, but you cannot make
out what it is. If you return to the city, turn to 144
and make another choice. If your robot can change
shape to a land-going form, you may land and
investigate the sea-coast: turn to 8.

You realize that a flying robot is the wrong type for
jungle exploration. What will you do:

Transform your robot into a walking
shape (if you can) and enter

the jungle? Turn to 356
Leave the city? Turn to 298
Explore the city? Turn to 366
286-287

286
‘Then face your foe!’ comes the answer. In front of
you appears a Karossean soldier, armed like your-
self. You must fight him.

SOLDIER SKILL 10 STAMINA 10

If you Escape, turn to 21. If you defeat him, turn to
352-

287

In the middle of your labour, you hear a grinding
noise — and look up to see three huge tanks and a
dozen grinning soldiers. Resistance would be use-
less. And, to add insult to injury, they do not treat
you as a prisoner of war, but a common criminal.
You are sent toa life of hard labour in the Karossean
slave-pits. Your adventure is over—and it was nota
heroic ending.

288
You are in the Arcade building, with your robot
parked outside. It is a madhouse of sound and
coloured lights. Each arcade game is wilder than the
next. Which one will you play:

Wasp Fighter? Turn to 221
Dinosaur Hunt? - Turn to 112
Zap the Karossean? Turn to 393
None of these? Turn to 165

289

As your robot falls, you pop out of the hatch and roll
safely away. You crawl under a bush near the wall
and wait. The great steel foot of the enemy robot
lands close to your head as it charges in pursuit, But
it merely puts a few more shots into your wrecked
robot and continues past, without seeing you. As
you lie in hiding, you hear other robots arrive, as
well as troopers on foot. But they seem to be looking
for an invading force, rather than a single fugitive.
Eventually, most of them go inside the building -
leaving one of their war robots standing empty, a
stone’s throw from your hiding-place! If you make a
dash for the robot, turn to 345. If you stay in hiding,
turn to 61.

290-293

290

You clank through a small park and down a short
street. In front of you, you see a crowd of Karossean
soldiers, looting a shop. If you turn and flee, turn to
216. If you fight them, turn to 343.

291
You have defeated both the Triceratops. Lose 1
STAMINA point due to the stress of the fight with
the great horned dinosaurs. You realize that enter-
ing this area was a mistake; you wil] find nothing
here but more danger! You quickly retrace your
steps. Turn to 189.

292
As you examine the plant, you get the uneasy
feeling that it is examining you too. Tum to 248,

At your best speed, you leave the area of the Fuel-
refining Plant. You may not retum to this site. Turn
to 265.

294-295

294
The robot catches you. You must fight it as though it
were a human opponent; this is a small robot, nota
monster like the ones you have piloted, so your
sharp sword may be enough to deal with its spindly
arms!

INFORMATION _ skILL6
ROBOT

If the robot reduces your STAMINA to 2, turn to 344.
If you defeat the robot, turn to 320.

STAMINA10

295
While you are arguing with the machine, it picks
you up —none too gently — and tosses you back into
the lift. Lose 1 STAMINA point. If you leave the
floor, turn to 333 and make a new selection, If you
attack the robot, turn to 142.

296-298

296
You escape easily. The guards have no idea what
has happened. You have captured the Sword of
State —a large, ornate blade. To your surprise, it is
sharp and well balanced. When you use it to fighta
foe, increase your SKILL by 1. Turn to 358,

297
The tyrant shakes his head. ‘Just because you’Te a
Thalian doesn’t mean I have to duel you. Take him
away!’ You have done your best, but it wasn’t
enough. Your adventure is over.

298
You are leaving the City of the Jungle. Where will
you go:

The City of Industry? - Turn to 265
The City of Knowledge? Turn to 362
The City of Pleasure? Turn to 165
The Capital City? Turn to 308
299-301

299
You aim your weapons over their heads and fire a
few times, hoping to herd them away from you,
This is a mistake! They panic and run in all direc-
tions —and the narrow beach funnels many of them
night at you. You are in the path of several hundred
tonnes of frightened dinosaur! What will you do:

Take off (if your robot can
also fly)? Turn to 182
Try to outrun them? Turn to 371
Head for the water? Turn to 233
300

It proves to be a useless volume of obscure military
regulations. You cast it aside in irritation, but you
have no time to examine another book. Turn to 368.

302
You quickly activate the Tangler Field. The attack-
ing flyers veer wildly. Two collide; several others
crash into the ground. The survivors streak away in
panic, and the sky is clear. Turn to 156.
302-304

302
As you leave the research labs, you hear once again
the strange shuffling and squeaking. You step
through a pair of double doors, into a room full of
large wire cages. You see that some are opened.
Then you realize what the sounds were. The hospi-
tal’s experimental animals have escaped . . . and
they are hungry! You are facing a trio of red-eyed
Giant Lizards. If you fight the creatures, turn to 328.
If you turn to flee, turn to 350.

303
You round a corner — and run right into three
Karossean doctors! They look at you keenly. What
will you do:

Pretend to faint? Turn to 323.
Attack them? Turn to 353
Apologize and go on your way? Turn to 375

304
You decide to visit the Temple of Fear. On your way
there, you see an unusual robot parked in an open
space. If you stop to investigate it, turn to 261. If you
go straight to the temple, turn to 57,

305-307

395
Over the radio, the Karossean challenges you:
‘Eighty-eight!’ If you know the proper countersign
for a response, turn to that number. If not, you will
have to fight: turn to 26.

306
You bound out of the wrecked robot and into the
swamp, where the beast cannot follow. Turn to 95.

307

The lift shoots quickly upward. The force of its
acceleration almost knocks you down — and it
continues for a long time! Suddenly the lift doors
pop open. You are in the lobby of the Robot
Experimenta] Centre. If you cross the square and
re-enter your robot, turn to 206. If you investigate
the Robot Experimental Centre, tur to 25.
308

308
You are in the Capital City — the seat of government
of Thalos. It is a noble city, full of white marble
buildings. It is also the main base of the invaders,
and you know you must be very careful!

Below, you have five options. Some of them will
eventually return you to this paragraph. You may
not make the same choice twice; each time you
return here you must make a new selection. Where
will you go:

The city hospital? Turn to 81
The Capitol Building? Turn to 10
The National Treasure House? Turn to 385
The enemy encampment? Turn to 4
Just explore? Turn to 31

309-311

399
You are leaving the City of Industry. Where will you
£9 now:

The City of Knowledge? Turn to 362
The City of Pleasure? Turn to 165
The City of the Jungle? Turn to 38
The City of the Guardians? Turn to 1XX

Note that you may not go to the City of the Guar-
dians unless you have learned the way and know
the numbers to substitute for the ‘XX’.

OO ———
==

310
Trapped in the Dinosaur Preserve, without a robot
to carry you, you have little hope. Test your Luck
twice in succession. If you are Lucky both times,
turn to 329. Otherwise, turn to 348.

313
Test your Luck, Lf you are Lucky, turn to 325. If you
are Unlucky, turn to 108.
312-315

312
You feel your robot tipping under you. A marshy
spot! Instinctively, you put your machine in re-
verse. Tooslow . - , Yousink slowly into the marsh.
You try to fire your ejection seat, but it fails to
function. You are doomed toa lingering death in the
muck.

313
Roll one die. On a roll of 1, 2 or 3, turn to137. Ona
roll of 4, 5 or 6, turn to 341.

344

The tyrant shakes his head. ‘Just because you're a
Thalian doesn’t mean I have to duel you.’ But,
hearing his men grumble, he adds: ‘Until you prove
yourself, thatis, If you can defeat one of my officers,
that will prove you are worthy to face me.’ Instantly,
one of his followers —a big, scarred brute —leaps out
with drawn sword, Your sword is returned to you.
You will have to fight the Karossean officer.

OFFICER SKILL 11 STAMINA II

If you win, turn to 377.

325
You smash several pieces of furniture against the
door, but to no avail. Your prison seems solid. Lose
1 STAMINA point, Turn to 397.
316-319

316
You regain control of your flyer, though the buffet-
ing is terrible. Lose 1 STAMINA point. If you havea
flask of liquid in your possession, count the letters
in both words of its name, multiply that number by
10, and turn to that reference. If you have no flask,
turn to 166.

317
You step cautiously inside, ready to fight if need be.
But the sounds were being made by an automated
repair facility, hard at work stamping out armour-
plate. There is no sign of anyone awake. You leave
your robot and investigate the controls of the repair
shop. They seem simple enough. If you would like
to attempt repairs on your robot, turn to 59. If your
robot needs no repairs, or if you do not choose to
attempt repairs, turn to 273.

318
Unfortunately, your attempt fails. You are too slow
to get out of the way. No matter how big your robot,
the terrified beasts are bigger. Your adventure ends
here, as you and your machine are both crushed
into tin foil by a rampaging herd of dinosaurs.

329
This is almost tao easy! You proceed past the sentry
as though everything were all rght—then, at the last
second, you change course. The last thing the sen-
try sees is the huge hulk of your machine looming
over him. Turn to 143.

320-324

320
One by one, you chop off the robot’s arms. At last it
is helpless. You feel a bit sorry as you run out of
the door; the robot was only doing its duty. As
you leave, it is still hooting mournfully, ‘Return
the museum’s property, please!’ You quickly climb
into the control seat of your robot. Turn to 396,

321
If you explore the jungle on the other path, turn to
73. If you want to go elsewhere, turn to 137,

322
You reach for the controls. The enemy pilots are still
not in sight. lf you want to try to destroy the other
robots, turn to 381. If you just want to leave, turn to
399:

323

The doctors pick you up and hoist you between
them to a treatment room. Soon a robot surgeon is
working on you. Restore your sTAMINA to its Initial
level. As soon as you are left alone in a recovery
room, you take your leave. Unfortunately, your
uniform is gone. You borrow suitable clothes froma
sleeping man in the hallway and continue. If you
look for information on sleeping sickness, turn to
395. If you leave the hospital and return to your
robot, turn to 308.

324
Test your Luck. lf you are Lucky, turn to 79. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 257,
325-327

325
The enemy robot's control bubble explodes in a
cloud of greasy black smoke. Small fragments clatter
and ring off the pavement and your own armour.
The headless body stands for a moment, then col-
lapses in a pile of junk! One Karossean down, a
thousand to go. Turn to 290.

326
There are far too many of them to fight. The area is
littered with smoking wreckage before you are
through. You have dealt a severe blow to the invad-
ers, but you did not defeat them. Your adventure is
over.

327
You grit your teeth and summon up your courage —
and go back inside. But it is worse than before. The
Powers of Fear are al] around you. Whatever help
they may be able to give, you want none of it! Lose
another SKILL point and return to 166,

328
You are facing three Giant Lizards! You back into
the corner of the room, so that you may fight them
one ata time. You cannot try to Escape until you have
slain the first two.

SKILL STAMINA

First GIANT LIZARD - 4
Second GIANT LIZARD 6 6
Third GIANT LIZARD - 5

If you defeat all three, or if you successfully Escape,
turn to 254.

329

Torn and bleeding after several encounters with
small dinosaurs, you stagger out of the Dinosaur
Preserve. Lose 3 STAMINA points, one at a time (50,
if you have medikits, you can cure each one as it is
lost). If you have already investigated the unmarked
building, turn to 364. If you have not investigated
that building, turn to 383.

339-332

330
Minos draws a huge, jewelled sword, You know he
did not become Tyrant of Karossea by being soft or
weak. But you didn’t get this far by being weak,
either. ‘Defend yourself, Karossean!’ you shout. A
murmur — could it be approval? - rises from the
watching officers. You battle Minos — to the death!

MINOS

If you win, turn to 355.

SKILL12 STAMINA 12

334
You flee from the Nothosaurus. If you are in a robot,
turn to 382. If you are on foot, turn to 279.

332

As you approach the War College, you see two
Karossean robots guarding it, and black-clad foot
soldiers milling about. Fortunately, you were cau-
tious in your approach, and they have not seen you.
There can be nothing here worth entering that
hornets’ nest for! You quickly change course. Turn
to 147.

333-334

333
You are in the lobby of the Robot Experimental
Centre, You read the directory, and see that diffe-
rent sorts of work are being done on different floors
of the building. Several seem interesting. Where
will you go:

Second floor: Interface

Mechanisms? Turn to 392
Third floor: Weapons Development? Turn to 182
sixth floor; Amplifier Project? Turn to 20
Tenth floor: Deteronics? Turn to 229
Leave the building? Turn to 206

334
You have defeated the guards. Other soldiers are
running from all directions, but they cannot see
you. You have captured the Sword of State, a large,
ornate blade. To your surprise, it is sharp and well
balanced. When you use it to fight a foe, increase
your SKILL by 1. Turn to 358.

335—337

335
You pilot your robot along the sea-coast. If you are

flying, turn to 284. If you are not flying, turn to 8,

336
Your robot falls and you lie stunned in the wreck-
age. The tentacles of a Tripod pull you out. You area
prisoner of the Karosseans! You have failed in your
mission. Your adventure is over.

337
‘Correct,’ replies the computer, ‘All Thalian person-
nel have been disabled by Karossean attack using
Sudden Sleeping Sickness, My sensors show no
other citizen of Thalos still awake. You are granted
base entry at Level Zero.’ Turn to 175.
338

338

You have no control over the Borer Robot’s path.
For hours it tunnels underground; then it turns
upward again. Eventually it reaches the surface,
and you open the hatch into daylight. You seem to
be in a small town. You will need to find new
transportation; the Borer Robot will not stir from its
new site.

The only robot you can find to take you there,
unfortunately, is an ancient, rattling Stilter. Thisisa
very tall, thin robot, apparently designed for paint-
ing the upper storeys of buildings or something of
the sort. Its arms and legs are very long. You hope
this tired, creaky machine will make the trip safely.

STILTER
ARMOUR4 SPEED Medium
COMBAT BONUS ~1
SPECIAL ABILITIES: None

You are midway between two cities. If you will go to
the City of Knowledge, turn to 362. If you will go to
the City of Worship, turn to 166.

339-340

339
You decide to visit the Temple of Glory. After all,

glory is what you will earn if you can drive off the
Karosseans! The temple is large and stately, with
multicoloured mosaics of battle scenes on the outer
walls, You enter and approach the altar. You feel the
presence of the Powers of Glory very strongly. A
voice seems to ring in your head: ‘Are you willing to
risk all for glory?’ If your reply is ‘Yes’, turn to 286. If
itis ‘No’, turn to 149.

340

This area proves to be full of rusting, abandoned
robots. At the other side of the vault is a huge lift.
The control panel has three coloured buttons, but
none is marked, The lift contains a huge robot; in the
dimness, you cannot make out what type itis, but it
has treads and claws. If you enter the lift and push a
button at random, turn to 269. If you take the small
corridor beside the lift, turn to 398.

341-342

342

As you speed over the jungle, your instruments
wam of an enemy approaching. It is a single Karos-
sean in a captured fighter-craft. He has somehow
identified you as a foe; he is already attacking. His
robot is a Wasp Fighter, a sleek experimental
machine, Only a few exist. It has very little armour,
but it has good weapons and handles well.

WASP FIGHTER
ARMOUR6 SPEED Very Fast
SPECIAL ABILITIES: Whenever the Wasp’s
Attack Roll exceeds its foe’s roll by 4 or more, it
has literally flown circles around its foe! It aute-
matically wins the next combat round — no rolls are
necessary.

You cannot Escape. If you defeat the Wasp, turn to

137. If your ARMOUR is reduced to 2, turn to 60. If

your ARMOUR is reduced to 0, you will die in the

wreckage of your craft.

342

Down a side-street you hear the sounds of purpose-
ful action. Peering cautiously around the corner,
you see that the sounds—banging, clanging noises —
are coming from a shop marked ‘Robot Repair’. The
shop door, naturally, is big enougl. for a robot to
enter, and is invitingly open. If you enter and
investigate, turn to 317. If you go on your way, turn
to 110,

SKILL11 ~
3437-344

They scatter in fear — al] but one. He climbs into a
large Construction Robot near by and pilots it to-
wards you. If your own robot is faster than Slow,
you can Escape (turn to 216). [If you would rather
fight, turn to 386.

344
The robot overcomes you and takes the Amulet of

Luck away from you. Muttering to itself, it rolls off
to be repaired. You lie on the floor, unable to fight
further. Lose 2 LUCK points, and reduce your Initial
Luck back to its starting score. You struggle back
outside to your own robot and climb in, Turn to 396.

345

345
Laughing, you scramble into an enemy combat

robot! The Myrmidon is the standard Karossean
combat robot. It has two forms — humanoid and
fighter-plane.

MYRMIDON
Human Form
ARMOURI2 SPEED Medium
COMBAT BONUS +1
Plane Form
ARMOUR10 SPEED Very Fast
COMBAT BONUS +1
SPECIAL ABILITIES: The Myrmidon can change
shape — from humanoid to aircraft, and back.

The Myrmidon takes one combat turn to change
forms. During that turn, the robot makes its normal
combat rolj, but if it wins, it does no damage to the
foe — it just defends itself. If you are not in combat,
the robot can change shapes freely, with no penalty
of any kind — except that if the robot is in humanoid
shape and has 2 or less ARMOUR points, it will fall
apart if it changes to a plane!

The controls are unfamiliar. If you have read the
manual on Karossean robots, turn to 322. If not,
turn to 3.

346
With the Cargo Crab, you can carry hundreds of
pounds of gold. If you load it up, turn to 287. If
you leave the Treasure House empty-handed (and
empty-clawed), turn to 308,

347
Seconds after you climb back into the robot, it tao

explodes. Your adventure is over,

348
Your adventure ends here, in the stomach of a
dinosaur...

349-350

349
You have run into a group of Karosseans patrolling

the city! They do not have war machines, but have
taken over several of the city’s own robots. If your
own speed is ‘Very Fast’, you may escape them
before the battle starts by leaving the city (turn to 298).
Otherwise, you must fight them one at a time, in
order:

STREET CLEANER

ARMOUR4 SPEED Slow SKILL?
TOWING ROBOT

ARMOUR 6 SPEED Medium SKILL?
TRAFFIC COPTER

ARMOUR 3 SPEED Fast SKILL8

None of these robots has any special abilities. Once
the battle starts, you may not Escape. If you defeat
all three robots, turn to 35. If your own robot's
ARMOUR is reduced to o, turn to 154.

35°
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, you make it back to
your robot without incident. If you are Unlucky,
you trip and fall on the precious flask of Blue Potion,
It is broken and lost. You arrive back at your robot
just ahead of the pursuing beasts. Turn to 210.
351-353

351

You dive into the water, activating the ‘jets’ that let
your machine swim. You are still in danger — the
herd is not just on the land, but thundering through
the shallow water as well. But, in the nick of time,
you escape them. If you return to the city, turn to
144. If you try to swim around the herd and investi-
gate the spot where they were originally clustered,
turn to 246.

352

You have defeated your foe. His body vanishes as
though it had never existed. Though the temple is
silent, you seem to hear victory trumpets. Restore
your STAMINA to ifs Initial score, and increase your
SKILL and your Initial sk1LL by 1 (for personal
combat only). Return to 166; you may not visit this
temple again.

353
You may fight them one at a time:

SKILL STAMINA

First DOCTOR 7 3
Second DOCTOR 6 7
Third DOCTOR 6 5

You cannot Escape; you must silence them quickly. If
you defeat them, you had better leave the hospital:
turn to 308, collecting your robot on the way, if you
have one.
i ce i i i

354-355

354

You have defeated Minos and his Supertank.
Around you is devastation; the few smaller robots
you can see are fleeing in panic. The invasion force
is routed and broken. You know that in a week or
so, your people will recover on their own, and you
will be a hero. But right now, all you want is some
rest. With none to oppose you, you turn your robot
homeward. Your adventure is over. . . and you are
victorious!

355
You have slain Minos in fair combat! By ancient

custom of the Karosseans, his tribe — the whole
Karossean nation — must now submit to your judge-
ment. Needless to say, you order that they awaken
your people, and leave your country with all their
men and machines. And they do! Before you know
it, things are back to normal. Almost. . . One little
thing is different. The day on which you defeated
Minos is now a national holiday — named after yor.
You are, truly and for ever, a hero.

356-359

356
You set off into the jungle, along a path wide
enough for a robot — or a dinosaur. Soon the path
forks. If you go right, turn to 19. If you go left, turn

to 73.

357
In the middle of a sentence, your explanations are

stilled for ever by the fire from hidden guns, The
computer has made a fatal mistake. . . fatal for you
as well, Your adventure is over.

358
The Cloak of Invisibility is beginning to flicker. You

will not be able to use it again. Before it expires,
you make your way out of the Capitol Building and
back to your robot. Turn to 308.

359
If you know the Wasp Fighter's model number, turn
to that reference number, If not, turn to 23.

360-362

360
You poke around, looking for something useful.
You find nothing, but a huge book falls from a high
shelf and hits you on the head. Lose 1 STAMINA
point. The other bookshelves are teetering omi-
nously, You leave in disgust and return to the lobby.
Turn to 333.

361

You are in the City of Knowledge. If you have
already been here, turn to go, Otherwise, keep
reading. Here are all of Thalos’s greatest universi-
ties and museums. This is the home of those who
most value learning. Here, you hope, you will find
something to help you in your lone struggle. You
have a wide choice of possible destinations within
the City of Knowledge. Where will you go:

The College of Medicine? Turn to 54

The Thalian Museum? Turn to 14

The Dinosaur Preserve? Turn to 66

The War College? Turn to 277

Out of the city? Turn to 380
362

You cannot escape in time. A blast nicks your
robot’s armour, Lose 1 ARMOUR point and wheel to
fight your foes. Turn to 169.

363-366
363

As you prepare to leave, it occurs to you that a few
bars of this treasure—or, perhaps, more thana few -
would be a fair compensation for your troubles so
far. If you have taken the Cargo Crab, turn to 346, If
not, turn to 220.

364
Fortunately, you left the robot building open. You
may now return there and get a robot. Turn to 9.

You decide to visit the Temple of Peace. It is a
relatively small building in this city of great temples,
but easy to find; it is surrounded on all sides by a
cool green park. You leave your robot at the edge of
the park and walk towards the temple, rather than
take a war machine to the Temple of Peace. Some-
how, you feel certain that nothing will harm you.
The temple is full of sleeping worshippers —but they
all wear gentle smiles, and you are sure their dreams
are untroubled. You feel moved to pray. What will
you pray for:

Complete peace? Turn to 37
Strength in battle? Turn to 390
Freedom? Turn to 107

366
You decide to explore the city. If you explore the
northern portion, turn to 16, If you explore to the
south, turn to 225.

367-368
367

Undaunted, you continue towards the City of In-
dustry on foot. Test your Luck again. If you are
Unlucky, you lose another 3 STAMINA points to
exposure. If you are Lucky, you find shelter and
water in the wasteland. Eventually, you find a little
robot car and finish the trip to the City of Industry.
The robot car is a small four-wheeled vehicle, de-
signed for pleasure, but definitely not for combat!

ROBOT CAR
ARMOURO SPEEDFast COMBATBONUSO
SPECIAL ABILITIES: This little machine is totally
unsuited for fighting! If it is attacked by anything
faster, it automatically loses. If attacked by some-
thing slower, it can Escape if given the chance.

Your car passes through the gates of the City of
Industry. Turn to 265.

368

You realize that you must leave quickly. Looking
outside, you see that the Karosseans have entered
the building. The fools have left their robots outside
and unguarded, parked near yours. You spring out
of the window and run for them. If you get back
into your own robot, turn to 322. If you get into
a Karossean robot instead, turn to 345.

369-371

369
The lift doors shudder, and the lift drops half a
metre and stops. The lights flicker on, and then off.
If you push another button, return to 269 and
choose again. If you leave the lift and enter the
corridor beside it, turn to 398.

370

You look around the junkyard, and see several
things that might be of use. But then you are con-
fronted by a huge creature with the remains of a
collar around its neck. Itis a Giant Ape, carrying the
leg of a robot as though it were a club! At the
moment, it seems curious rather than angry. What
will you do:

Flee? Turn to 110
Speak to the Ape? Turn to 234 ©
Attack the Ape? Turn to 138

371
If your robot is Very Fast or Fast (ground speed
only), turn to 196. If it is Medium or Slow, turn to
318.

ae - a i ae
372-373

372

You read through the book one last time - - . and
discover an alarming footnote. One of the ingre-
dients you used was Essence of Man-trap Flower.
But, according to the footnote, this essence loses its
power over time. It may be that the material you
used was weak or even totally worthless! The only
way to be absolutely certain of success would be
either to find some brand-new essence, or to acquire
a fresh Man-trap Flower and add it to your flask of
Potion. But you have no idea where to look for fresh
essence, and the flower itself grows only in the
deepest jungle. You pack the fragile bottle of Blue
Potion carefully, and set out for your robot. Turn to
302.

You stretch a robot arm to its fullest extension and
pluck one of the flowers. The plant shudders. If you
possess a Blue Potion, turn to 211. Otherwise, turn
to 248.

374-376

374
You find a stairway and head down. You find that

both the Karosseans are dead. One was about your
size; you quickly strip off his uniform and put it on
yourself. It may come in handy later! You check the
signs. The demolished exhibit was labelled ‘Tyran-
nosaurus’. The shouts from outside are coming
closer, so you duck out of a convenient door and
return to the front desk. Turn to 14.

As you walk down the hallway, you sense eyes
boring into your back. Then the doctors run down
the hall away from you, shouting! Evidently your
accent gave you away. You cannot catch them; you
hurriedly flee from the hospital and back to the
place where you left your robot (if you have a robot),
Lose 1 STAMINA point. Turn to 308.

376
You are leaving the City of the Guardians. If you
decide to go to the City of Storms, turn to 144. If you
decide to go to the City of Industry, turn to 265.
— a i , 2

377-379

377
Your opponent falls, mortally wounded. A gasp

goes up from the circle of officers watching the
battle. As you reel] back, one of them catches you.
You see Minos dusting off his hands and drawing
his sword. ‘Here! Drink this!’ says the Karossean
officer who kept you from falling. If you drink the
flask he offers, turn to 388. If you decline, turn to
330.

378
You are leaving the City of Pleasure. If you would
like to go to the City of Industry, turn to 265. If you
would like to go to the City of the Jungle, turn to 274.

379
To your horror, you are caught in a downdraught!

Your robot falls, spinning. You are thrown against
the side of the cockpit. Around you, metal shrieks.
Lose 2 STAMINA points; your robot loses 2
ARMOUR points. If either STAMINA Or ARMOUR is
reduced too, you are dead. If not, you havea chance
to regain control, Turn to 22.

380
You are leaving the City of Knowledge. . . hopeful-
ly, wiser than when you came. Where will you
travel now:

The City of Industry? Turn to 265

The City of the Jungle? Turn to 137

The City of Storms?. Turn to 179

The City of Worship? Turn to 166
381

Without their pilots, the other robots are defence-
less. Your own machine quickly hammers them into
junk. But as you attack the last one, it fights back!
Evidently it was left on autopilot. Your own robot
loses 3 ARMOUR points before you can destroy that
last foe. You leave the War College at top speed,
with the Karossean pilots shouting angrily behind
you from the windows, But you have lost part of the
advantage of surprise; the Karosseans now know
that at least one person remains awake to oppose
their scheme! Turn to 147.

382-383

382
Lose 2 LUCK points for abandoning the sleepers to
the tender mercies of the hungry dinosaur. If you
have not already explored the south of the city, you
may do so (turn to 225). Otherwise, turn to 137.

383

You wander around for hours, but the Administra-
tion Building is useless, and the other building is
tightly locked and you cannot enter it. You must
leave the Dinosaur Preserve and see what you can
find. Unfortunately, the Dinosaur Preserve is far
away from the rest of the City of Knowledge. After
an hour of walking, the best you have been able to
find is a battered old Farm Robot.

FARM ROBOT |
ARMOUR] SPEEDMedium COMBATBONUSO
SPECIAL ABILITIES: None

But it is better than nothing, so you take it. Turn to
150,

384-385

384
You are caught in the remains of your robot as the
Crusher’s enormous foot comes down one last time.
Your end is mercifully quick.

385
You have arrived at the National Treasure House. A
great, grey building, it is the repository of all Tha-
los’s gold. To your surprise, it is guarded only by a
single Karossean sentry, standing in front of the
building. If you have a robot, turn to 319. If you are
on foot, turn to 271.

386—387

386
The enemy Construction Robot raises huge claws
and moves towards you. It rolls on eight vast
wheels. It has only a few guns, to protect against
attacking dinosaurs, but it has four huge arms
mounted all around.

CONSTRUCTION ROBOT
ARMOURQ SPEED Slow SKILL 6
SPECIAL ABILITIES: None

Fortunately for you, the Karossean soldier inside
does not really know how to use this robot. If the
two dice you roll for the Construction Robot ever
total 6 or less, turn to 194. If you Escape, turn to 216.
if you defeat the Construction Robot, turn to 92. If
your own robot's ARMOUR is reduced to 0, turn to
61.

387
The placid beasts are quite familiar with robots; they
honk and hiss, but move over to let you through.
Turn to 62.

+ — 22 E

i ee

388-391

388

You drink. A tingling goes through your body. “You
put up a good show!’ says the officer in a whisper.
“By law, you shouldn't have to duel Minos until you
can rest, but he’s coming for you right now. This
will even the odds.” You thank him for his sports-
manship. Obviously not all Karosseans are totally
bad! The officer's healing drink gives you 4 STAMI-
NA points, or restores you to your /nitial STAMINA,
whichever is less, Turn to 330.

389

The Karosseans fire on you, Lose 1 ARMOUR point
and fight. Turn to 169.

The room somehow seems colder, The feeling of
peace evaporates (lose 1 LUCK point). Quickly you
rise and walk back to your robot. You realize that
your request was inappropriate. Return to 166; you
may not visit this temple again.

391
Your luck has run out! The Tyrannosaurus spots
you and gobbles you up in a second. Your adven- ,
ture is over — and a short one it was, too.

392

Exploring the second floor, you find several proto-
type models of an odd-looking helmet, According to
the files you read there, it is an Interface Transpon-
der. While you wear one of these helmets, increase
your SKILL by 1 when using a robot, up to a max-
imum SKILL of 11. Thatis, if yourskILLis already 11
or 12, it does not help you. It does not affect other
combats. If you leave the Centre and return to your
robot outside, turn to 206, If you want to explore
further, return to 333 and make another selection.

393

You step into the game and pick up the toy ray-gun
that comes with it. A light comes on and you see
yourself in a mirror — but a holographic trick has
clothed your reflection in a beard and a Karossean
uniform, You laugh and fire at it. Unfortunately,
with all the repairmen sleeping, this machine is out
of order. When you fire, you receive a severe elec-
trical shock. Roll one die. On 1, 2 or 3, you lose 1
point of sxtLi. On 4, 5 or 6, you lose 1 point of
STAMINA. If you want to play another game, turn to
288. If you want to leave the Arcade, turn to 165.
—— ———————E———

394-396

394
You pack the fragile bottle of Blue Potion carefully,
and set out for your robot. Turn to 302.

395

You dash down the hallway, following the signs
marked ‘Library’. You turn a corner and run head-
long into a Karossean guard! You finish him off
before he can summon aid, but he wounds you
slightly: lose 1 STAMINA point. Once at the library,
you ransack it for information on sleeping sickness.
But you find nothing; the relevant volumes are all
missing. You realize this has been a wild-goose
chase. Carefully, you slip out of the hospital and
away. Return to 308.

396
You are leaving the Thalian Museum. Where would
you like to go now:

The College of War? Turn to 277
The Dinosaur Preserve? Turn to 66
The College of Medicine? Turn to 54
Out of the city? Turn to 380

397-399

397
After a few hours, the door opens and a soldier

tosses in a package of rations, Desperately, you grab
his arm before the door closes! The Karossean tum-
bles to the floor. He has no chance against your
berserk rage. You leave him unconscious, at a cost
of 2 STAMINA points to yourself. In an adjoining
room, you find your sword lying underneath a
table, but there is no sign of your other Possessions.
If you search for them, turn to 174. If you leave
immediately, turn to 69.

The corridor levels off and passes a small alcove.
Within the alcove is a small lift, just big enough for
one person. If you want to get in the lift and press
the button, turn to 307. If you continue along the
corridor, turn to 178,

399
You speed away. Behind you, the Karossean pilots

come charging out of the building, heading for their
robots. But you know the city better than they do;
though they hunt for you, your head start is enough
to see you safely away. But you have lost part of the
advantage of surprise; the Karosseans now know
that at least one person remains awake to oppose
their scheme! Tum to 147.
400

400
You fight the Ankylosaurus, This small but power-
ful dinosaur is studded with armour-plate. Its tail is
tipped with a huge ball of bone which it swings like
a mace.

ANKYLOSAURUS

ARMOUR 12 SPEED Slow SKILL
SPECIAL ABILITIES: If your robot has two or four
legs and the Ankylosaurus hits you, it will knock
you off your feet. This does no extra damage.
However, on the next turn, if you hit the Ankylo-
saurus you vill do it no damage. You have only
defended yourself against it.

If you Escape, turn to 115. Lf you defeat the Ankylo-
saurus, turn to 56. If your robot is destroyed, you
are lost in the jungle and your adventure is over.

Alain Pains

‘Steve Jackson's
SORCERY!

Your search for he legendary Crown of Kings takes you to
the Shamutanti Hils. Alive with evil ereatores,lvlets
wanderers and bloodthirsty monsters, the land is dled
thih ticks and taps walling forthe unwary traveller. Wil
Yyou be ble to eros the hil safely and proceed to the
Second part ofthe adventure ~ of wil you perish in the
attempt?

2 KUARE ~ crTvronr or rears
‘Asa warrior relying on force of arms, ora wizard tained in
‘magic, you must brave the tror of acy ull 1 ap the
“unwary. You wil need all your wits about you to survive
‘the unimaginable errors ahead! and to make sense ofthe

les which may lead to your successor to your doom!

5: THE SEVEN SERPENTS
Seven deadly and magia serpents speed ahead of you to
‘wam the evil Archmage of your comnng, Will you beableto
‘atch them before they get there?

4 THE CROWN OF KINeS
Atthe end ofyourfong tek, you faethe unknown terrors

, ‘ofthe Mampang Fortress. Hidden inside the keep isthe
‘Crown af Kings~ the ultimate goal of the Sorry epic. But
‘beware! For you have not defested the Seven Serpents,
{Yourarsval hasbeen anticipated -

Complete with all the magical spells you will need,

‘ach book can be played either on its own oF a part
ofthe whole eps

ES NII, Ee
THE CRETAN CHRONICLES

BLOODFEUD OF ALTHEUS
AT THE COURT OF KING MINOS
RETURN OF THE WANDERER

John Butterfield, David Honigmann, Philip Parker

Set in the mythological world of Ancient Greece, this
3-book epic brings an exciting historical dimension to
Adventure Gamebooks, YOU are Altheus, sent to avenge
the death of Theseus, your elder brother, whose body lies
trapped in the labyrinth of King Minos. The combat system
has been extended to incorporate the concepts of honour
and shame,

MAELSTROM
Alexander Scott

Complete with beginners’ and advanced rules, referee's
notes, maps and charts, Maelstrom is a full role-playing
game for several players. YOU choose the characters,
YOU decide the missions and YOU have the adventures
in the turbulent world of Europe in the sixteenth century.
——— Ct

Fantasy Questbooks — 32 pages, full colour

THE PATH OF PERIL
David Fickling and Perry Hinton
Illustrated by Rachel Birkett

The famous explorer, Edmund Mallory, has been foully
murdered, and the legendary Bloodstone, which he
acquired under mysterious circumstances on his last
travels, is missing. All that remains are the scattered frag-
ments of the explorer’s diary, his personal notebook and
most of the contents of his ransacked study. An almost
unsolvable mystery. Yet it seems that the explorer himself
expected to meet a violent end and prepared the way for
YOU to track down his murderer and recover the Blood-
stone. Unfortunately the dues hetaid have been scattered
in the turmoil of his terrible death. All the information you
need is here, ingeniously hidden in both text and pictures,
and each strand of the mystery unravels to reveal the next.
Are YOU sharp enough to crack it?

STARFLIGHT ZERO
David Fickling and Perry Hinton
Illustrated by Peter Andrew Jones

One by one the Free Planets have fallen to the relentless
advance of the Dark Ships until only Caldoran and Palonar
remain. Then a last, despairing message comes from Palo-
nar and Caldoran is on its own. [t seems that the invaders,
armed with the power of the invincible Black Light, will
soon conquer the last outpost of resistance. The only hope
for the survival of Caldoran is one last desperate mission by
a small group of star fighters to strike at the source of the
Black Light. And YOU are part of the mission.
