FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS

_ Over 12 million copies sold worldwide!

The salety of the earthisin ¥ . if : | ON |
Morgana, the fell sorceress of Krill Garnash, is ZS 4. ‘LIVINGSTONE
poised to let loose her dreaded Golems, which x, éf on
nane will be able to resist. For she has equipped 2 -
them with the Masks of Mayhem, which give
them power over all things. Only YOU can end
her evil designs — but beware: peril and
treachery await you at every turn, and help is

hard to find,

Two diee, o pencil and an eraser are all you

need to make your journey. YOU decide which

way tO Bo, which dlangers ro risk and which
mansters to ght

crown yTtaseret sees Biv Bahn Seb bene 4

[ISBN |

Ih

MASKS OF MAYHEM

‘YOUar the euler ofthe ty of Aron. Your ity is thlvlag
_and your people are prosperous — but tube is breveing!
‘Morgans, he fe sorceress of Krill Gama, splsed fet
Joon her dnaded Golem, which wil wreak havoc upon
the would. None wil be able to rest Her, for ey have
‘or exquipped wil the Maske of Mayhem, which ite
‘Shem powcr mer all things, Only YOU can end her cil
{design But Devare: pel and treachery avelloual every
om and belpihard to Bed?

“Twodice a poland an eraser on allyou nes to embark
on this thang adventure, complete with is elaborate
‘Sinbet gsiem end a sure chect torecord your gins and
bees

Many dangers ie ahead and your sucess by no means
estan. Ie up 9 YOU to dace which rte fol,
‘hich dangers tisk and which adversargs ight
fighting Fantasy Gamebonks

J. THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP
MLMIN TAIN
2 THECITADGL CE CIAL
3. THE FOREST OF DOOM
(TAR TRA
5. CITY CE THIEVES
n Of ATR OLNGCEDN
7 ISLAND CP THE UZARD RMS
& SIORFION SWS
¥C APIO OL AAU WIA
30, S39TSE CF HELL
1). LSAUISMAN Df DEATH
17 SUACE Aaa
1X FREEWAY FIGHTER
VA. OAU LET TERROR
15, 32S RINCS CF RSTIIER
Tn SHAS OG SLOW
VF ACPUIN IMENT WITTE AIL
IR RESEL PLANET
TW, URAL EMT eb
2 SWORD OF TIE SAMURAI
a1. TXIAL OF CHAMPIONS
2 RONOTOOAMANI
3 MASKS OF MaAYSEM
Pe CUE ATLIC CH TARR

Shree Jockecd® SUIRUERT!
L THE S=AMCTANT R15
2 KA Ciryiciicl OF THAR

7S GINS 1H NKSTOMARE CASTILE

Ss CRYPT CF THE SURI

=. SIAR STRODER

PH TULANTORMS I 1K

WiC N4SMS OF MALES

SL BATTLSEULADE bys Tem

Mt Staves OF THE ASESE

Ti SRV Lie:

S DAL: OT OASIS

36 ARMGES OF DEAT

SPORTAL OF EVN

3 VST De 1 eensieE

SUFANCSCESURY

41 ALO NIGHT

Sl MASTER CE CHALE:

= BLACK V=IN PROPHECY

23 it SP ct is Lok

= LECSND OF THE SAO
ra SRS

Go SERTRAL SIM Kesey

+. TOWER CE DESTROCION

Loh SOV SPE IES
1 THE CROWN OF EDS

FICIITING FANTASY - Tat brireducory Kcletoying Came
THE RICCLING SEAVER ~ Four daily actu
TOI TRIILLICK TL WAR = 4 lipchng lentes Neveed

Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone
present:

Robin Waterfield

[tustrated by Russ Nicholson

TEMCNSTEALER 3 Fighting Sonary Now!

“the Advaverd Nipghtirg lentary System

OUTOPTHETIT Figuing Pnwer Meretee<

TITAN: Thee Eglo Furtisy SW.

DLN En = An sieductiec to de Word Re Flava Cates
DLALKSARTY: Aduyrond bightry harcacy

PUFFIN BOOKS
boss’ oC SU

To Philippe Dickinson
Unsung hero of Titan
CONTENTS

8

EQUIPMENT AND POTIONS
36

8

MASKS OF MAYHEM
HOW TO FIGHT THE CREATURES
OF KHUL

Before embarking on your adventure, you must first
determine your own strengths and weaknesses.
Use dice to determine your initial Luck, sxitt.and
STAMINA Scores. On pages 18—19 there is an Adivn-
ture Sheet which you may use to record the details of
an adventure. On it you will find boxes for record-
ing yOur SKILL and STAMINA SCOres,

You are advised to either record your scores on the
Adventure Sheet in pencil, or make photocopies of
the page to use in future adventures.

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter this
total in the sKIxt box on the Adventtire Sheet.

Roll both dice. Add 12 to the number rolled and
enter this total in the sTAMINA box.

There is also a LU cK box. Roll one die, add 6 ta this
number and enter this total in the Luck box.

For reasons that will be explained below, SKILL,
STAMINA and LUCK scores change constantuly dur-
inganadventure. You must keep an accurate record
of these scores and for this reason you are advised
either to write smallin the boxes or ta keep an eraser
handy. But never rub out your Iniliel scores.

9
Although you may be awarded additional SKILL,
STAMINA and LUCK paints, these totals may never
exceed vour Jtial scores, except on very fare
occasions, when you will be instructed on a
particular page.

Your skit. score reflects your swordsmanship and
general fighting expertise; the higher the better.
Your sTAMINA score reflects your general consti-
tution, your will to survive, your determination and
overall fimess; the higher your stamina score, the
longer you will be able to survive. Your LUCK score
indicates how naturally lucky a person you are.
Luck — and magic — are facts of life in the fantasy
kingdom you are about to explore.

Battles

You will often come across pages in the book which
instruct you to fight a creature of some sort. An
option to flee may be given, but if not — or if you
choose to attack the creature anyway — you must
resolve the battle as described below.

10

First record the creature’s SKILL and STAMINA
scores in the first vacant Encounter Box on your
Adventure Sheet. The scores for each creature are
given in the book each time vou have an encounter.

The sequence of combat is then:

1. Roll both dice once for the creature. Add its
SKILL score. This total is the creature’s Attack
Strength.

2. Roll both dice once for yourself. Add the number
rolled to your current skti.t. score. This total is
your Attack Strength.

3- If your Attack Strength is higher than that of the
creature, you have wounded it. Proceed to step
4- If the creature’s Attack Strength is higher than
yours, ithas wounded you. Proceed to step 5. If
both Attack Strength totals are the same, you
have avoided each other's blows — start the next
Attack Round from step 1 above.

4. You have wounded the creature, so subtract 2
points from ils STAMINA score. You may use
your LucK here to do additional damaye (see
over).

. The creature has wounded you, so subtract 2
points from your own STAMINA score, Again
you may use Luck at this stage (see over}.

6. Make the appropriate adjustments to either the

creature’s or your OWN STAMINA scores (and
your LUcK score if you used LUCK — see over).

“i

ai
7. Begin the next Attack Round by repeating steps
1-6, This sequence continues until the STAMINA
score of either you or the creature you are
fighting has been reduced to zero (death).

Fighting More Than One Creature

If you come across more than one creature in a
particular encounter, the instructions on that page
will tell you how to handle the battle. Sometimes
you will treat them asa single opponent; sometimes
you will fight each one in tum.

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either in
battles ar when you come across situations in which
you could either be Lucky or Unlucky (details of
these are given on the pages themselves), you may
call on your luck to make the outcome more favour-
able, But beware! Using luck is a risky business and
if you are nnlucky, the results could be disastrous.

The procedure for using your luck is as follows: roll
two dice. If the number rolled is equal to orless than
your current LUCK score, you have been Lucky and
the result will go in your favour. If the number
rolled is higher than your current LUCK score, you
have been Unlucky and you will be penalized.

This procedure is known as Testing your Luck. Each
time you Test your Luck, you must subtract 1 point

r2

from your current tuck score. Thus you will soon
realize that the more you rely on your luck, the more
risky this will become,

Using Luck tr Battles

On certain pages of the book you will be told to Test
your Luck and will be told the consequences of your
being Lucky or Unlucky. However, in battles, you
always have the option of using your luck either to
inflict a more serious wound on a creature you have
just wounded, or to minimize the effects ofa wound
the creature has just inflicted on you.

If vou have just wounded the creature, you may Test
your Luck as described above. lf you are Lucky, you
have inflicted a severe wound and may substract an
extra 2 points from the creature’s STAMINA score.
However, if you are Unlucky, the wound was a
mere graze and you must restore 1 point to the
creature’s STAMINA {i-e. instead of scaring the nor-
mal 2 points of damage, you have now scored only
t).

i the creature has just wounded you, you may ‘est
vour Luck to try to minimize the wound. If you are
Lucky, you have managed to avoid the full damage
of the blow. Restore 1 point of sTaMINa {i.e. in-
stead of doing 2 points of damage it has done only
1). If you are Unlucky, vou have taken a more
serious blow. Subtract 1 extra STAMINA point.

Remember that you must subtract 1 point from your
own LucK score each fime you Test vour Luck,

43
Restoring Skill, Stamina and Luck

Skill

Your $k111. score will not change much during your
adventure. Occasionally, a page may give instuc
tions to increase or decrease your SKILL score. A
Magic Weapon may increase your sxiii, but re-
member that only one weapon can be used at a time!
You cannot claim two SKILL bonuses for carrying
two Magic Swords. Your skit score can never
exceed its Jrifial value unless specifically mstructed.
Drinking the Potion of Skill (see later) will restore
your SKILL to its /nitial level at any time-

Stamina and Provisions
Your STAMINA score will change a lot during your
adventure as you fight and underteke arduous
tasks. As you near your goal, your STAMINA level
may be dangerously low and battles may be particu-
larly risky, so be careful!

Your backpack contains enough Provisions for ten
meals. You may test and cat al any time except
when enyaged in a battle. Eating a meal restores 4
STAMINA points. When vou eata meal, add 4 points
to your STAMINA score and deduct 2 point from
your Provisions. 4 separate Provisions Remaining
box is provided on the Adventure Shee? for recording
details of Provisions. Remember that you have a
long say to #0, so use your Provisions wisely!

14

Remember also that your STAMINA score May
never exceed its Initial value unless speviftcally
imstructed on a page. Drinking the Potion of
Strength (see later) will restore your STAMINA to its
Initial level at any time.

Luck

Additions to your LUCK score are awarded through
the adventure when you have been particularly
lucky. Details are given on the pages of the book.
Remember that, as with SKILLand STAMINA, your
LUCK score may never exceed its Initial value unless
specifically instructed on a page. Drinking the Po-
tion of Portune (see later} will restore your Luck to
its Initial level at any time, and increase your Initial
LucKby 1 point.

35
EQUIPMENT AND POTIONS

You will start your adventure with a bare minimum
of equipment, but you may find or buy other items
during your travels. You are armed with a sword
and are dressed in leather armour. You have 4
backpack to hold your Provisions and any Weasures
you may come across.

In addition, you may take one bottle of a magical
potion which will aid you on your quest. You may
choose to take a bottle of any of the following:

A Potion of Skill— restores SKIL1 points

A Potion of Strength — restores STAMINA points

A Potion of Fortune - restores LUCK points and
adds 4 to Initial LUCK

16

These potions may be taken at any time during your
edventure (except when engaged in a battle}. Tak-
ing 2 measure of potion will restore SKILL, STAMI-
NA OF LUCK scores to their Initial level (and the
Potion of Fortune will add 1 point to your Initial
LUCK score before Luck is restored}.

Each bottle of potion contains enough for one mea-
sure, Le, the characteristic may be restored once
during an adyenture. Make a note on your Adven-
ture Sheet when you have used up a potion.

Remember also that you may choose only orte of the
three potions to take on your trip, so choose wisely!

+7
ADVENTU

RE SHEET

SKILL
Initial
Skii=

Iiytial

cS

STAMINA

Stamna>

initial

Lyck-

| LUCK
j
|
;

EQUIPMENT

NOTES

POTIONS

PROVISIONS
REMAINING

ENCOUNTER BOXES

-_s

Skiii= Skiti= Ski=
Siamna= Staorsina Shomma=
Shill= Sui= Shil=
Stamina= Stanii= Stuamimna=
, — — mus
Skill Scili= Skll=
Siimins~ Stamina = Shona
i
!
‘+ L
Sol= Sel— Seill—
Slane Staite | Slanuing=
— |

BACKGROUND

You are the just and noble ruler of Arion in north-
east Khul. Your people prosper and the land
flourishes, but trouble is brewing.

Qne day your court wizard lor Tynin summons
you. Though you are the ruler, he is your equal,
because of his knowledge of sorcery. Each of you
relics on the other for the governing of the land. But
you can never quite overcome a suspicion of anyone
involved in the sorcerous arts.

[for Tynin comes straight to the point: ‘You have
heard, of course, of Morgana, the sorceress whose
abode is the five peaks of Krill Garnash in the
northern mountains. | have travelled in my astral
body to her lair to watch over her evil designs.

"There are twelve forms, the sigils which hold the
keys of power over all things. This has long been
known to those who pursue the righteous side of
my ancient art; without this knowledge we would
be unable to assist the thriving of the world.

20

‘Morgana has acquired this knowledge, though the
Council of Elders bans such as her from it. She has
made masks of eleven of the sigils, and fitted them
on undead Golems, creatures of stone. She lacks
only the twelfth, which binds the others together
and makes them effective; then power over all crea-
tion will be hers, to do what she will- and she will
unleash her Golems over all the world. They will be
irresistible, because they will be the essence of all
things, and nothing can resist its essence. She plans
to create havoc with her undead creatures, and has
imbued the masks with the power of mayhem,
which awaits only the twelfth to be made actual.

“You must slay Morgana- You are the noblest ruler
and the boldest fighter of the land. Only you can
succeed.”

You interrupt; ‘But why can‘t your Council do
something about her?’

His reply is grim: ‘Because in such a magical battle
the forces that would be released may cause almost
#3 much damage as the full set of twelve Golems.
Only one such as yourself, armed with purity of
purpose, is impervious to most of our magical arts,
whether good or evil. Yes, it must be you for our
plan to succeed.’

Fis words have filled you with dread and eager-
ness. Your preparations are swift, and you depart
early the next morning. Turn to 1.

21
- a = » *
’ >@ > 2s
i* = > (
i Ee os «<4 Ss
. . ~
4 > " ‘= .
+ - y
S bd <4 5
YY 4
it i
.

ites

Ai I ie

~ tye es -

Vn

Wit) bY A)

« rat
SRN

ih

M4 ’
i

» Poy ee

1=2

1

Before setting off, vou enter the armoury- Kevin
Truehand, your trusted but now aged armourer,
has been honing your sword and burnishing your
helmet, with its strangely simple device, This hel-
met has been handed down from generation to
generation of rulers of Arion, and legend has it that
if it were ever to fall into the wrong hands, chaos
would stalk the streets of your city,

As you put on the helmet and buckle your sword to
your belt, Truehand whispers to you, as if afraid
that someone might hear: ‘Majesty, seek first the
castle of Hever, lord of Fallow Dale. For you are
bound for Krill Garmash, where evil dwells, and
Hever has a horn which strikes terror into any evil
heart. Therefore I say: seek the halls of Hever, and
win from him, however you can, this precious
horn”

With that he turns aside, and you set out, through
the paved streets of Arion, and out of the northern
gateway — the Gate of Skulls, Turn to 53.

2
During the night, fieldmice burrow into your pack
and eat 2 lots of your Provisions. Al daybreak you
carry on northwards, and another day’s travel
brings you to the end of the grass. The landscape
facing you is moorland, dotted with rocks and
shrubs, and cisscrossed by numerous streams and
vers, Afteranother night's rest, you carry on. Turn
to 68-
3-5

3 -

_ The mist begins to clear as you follow the trail,
which carries on down the other side of the hill.
However, it is stil] thick in the valleys. At one point
you look up to assess how much longer the mist will
last; the sun is a hazy yellow-orange ball behind the
clouds. So you fail to see what is right in front of
your feet, and you plummet down a gaping hole in
the ground. Roll one die and deduct that many
STAMINA points.

When you regain consciousness, you look around.
‘The light steaming in from above reveals a well-
shaped tunnel. It looks as though you have landed
in an old mine. You cannot chimney your way back
up the shaft, since the entrance is toa high above
your head, and the sides are too sheer. So will you
20 west (turn to 394) or east (turn to 144)?

4 .
Ifyou talked ta Vashti, tum to 258; otherwise turn to
136.

5
You stutter ta a halt in the middie of some feeble
story about hunting and getting lost. The shaman
curtly tells the chief that you are lying, but not evil.
Then he begins to mutter a spell. The village starssto
dissolve and you feel yourself floating. Aftera while
you find yourself in mist-shrouded hills. Your
hands (if they were tied) are free, but you have been
deprived of all your remaining Provisions. The posi-

6-8

tion of the sun, dimly perceived behind the mist,
tells you that you have been transported to the
eastern side of the lake. Will you stay where you are
until the mist clears (turn to 27), or press on regard-
less {turn to 138)?

6

You tread on something, probably a bone, since that
is what it sounds like. Turn to 101-

You are bowled over in the rush, and narrowly miss
knocking your head against a rock. Will you now
carry on south towards the fire (turn to 288), or go
north with the animals (turn to 47)?

8
The Orcis nowhere to be seen. You soon realize that
you could easily get lost among the corridors and
staircases of the castle, so you return to your room,
and find several other guards, some bending over
their comrade, others looking around warily, Tum
to 111.

g-11

9
You slip undetected inside the trunk. So far, so
good. But through a knot-hole you see that the Elves
are moving roughly in your direction. If you leave
the tree-trunk, you will immediately be spotted-
Will you stay exactly where you are (furn 10 232), or
climb up the inside of the tree (turn to 73)?

10

Add 1 1.UcK point for surviving the bush-fire. You
now face a lengthy journey along the edge of the
canyon, until you can find some way across or down
it, At least there will be plenty of roast meat, from
animals which died in the fire, to keep you gomg on
the wav; and the streams, though oily and black-
ened from the fire, still provide water which is
refreshing enough. Will you head east (furn to 98) or
west (turn to 70) along the cliff?

s&s
As soon as you take hold of the spear, your hand is
stuck to it. A vision materializes beside you, of
Morgana herself! ‘Excellent!’ she cries. ‘Glad to see
you're on your way. Our litde plan is working well.
Don’t worry: | won't kill you . . . yet. But here's a
foretaste of my power.’ The vision raises her hands

12-13

and curses you (lose 2 LUCK points). Then Morgana
disappears and you can remove your hand from the
spear. You break the spear across your thigh. Will
you now carry on north through the village (tur to
56), or leave the village and travel north-east (turn to
323)?

12
You succeed in plunging your sword through the
horny outer skin of the Kraken, and through to its
pulpy insides. The Kraken retreats, mortally
wounded, but its tentacles thrash in agony and
knock you off your feet. Lose 2 STAMINA points,
and tun to $5-

13

Several days later (reduce your Provisions by 2} you
are faced with your most dangerous situation yet. A
bush-lire starts in the south and is racing in your
direction, driven by the wind. The front of the fireis
many kilometres long: at any rate, even from a
distance you cannot see the ends of it. The dry
heather and shrubs are excellent kindling for it, and
it leaps the streams and small rivers with no appar-
ent pause. It is still a long way away, but you know
the speed at which such fires travel, Will you:

Stay where you are? Turn to 148
Race north away from the fire? Turn to 47
Try to find the fire’s western limit? Turn to 332
Try to find the fire’s eastern limit? Turn to6é2
Move towards the fire? Turn to 221
1415

.
*e.

ae

14
lt is no hard task to halt the thieves. There are six

Pygmy Ores, specially bred for burglary. They look
at vou with venom. ‘Curse you for bringing others,’
the leader hisses. ‘Itis you we want, not your paltry
helmet.’ He draws a wicked-looking dagger and
lunges for you, while the other Orcs engage your
companions.

ad
.

Spiel | —- a!

3 = i)
a

PYGMY ORC SKILL? STAMINA 10

If you win within five Attack Rounds, turn to 268;
otherwise, turn to 129.

=
You struggle to the other side of the pool, where itis
easy to dispatch the Snake with your sword, Thank-
ing your lucky stars that it was nat poisonous as
well. you carry on for several more kilometres. If
you have not stopped to rest and eat Provisions so
far during yvour underground journey, you must
reduce your 5TAMINA by 2 points.

Sea be EL ig The monotonous single tunnel eventually comes to
won qe a age ee NF a fork. Will you take the left branch (turn to 399) or

> ~
ibe. “Se

eas ieee owes SS SAS D the right branch (turn to 276)?

16-20

16
You come to a large cavern, which is not lit by
torches, Will you enter the cavern (turn to 59), or
turn back and take the side-passage (turn to 306)?

17
Unfortunately, by the time the bush-fire reaches
you, your own fire has not formed a large enough
area for you to escape the suffocating heat. Your
adventure is over-

18
You land awkwardly (lose 2 STAMINA points), but
basically unharmed. Turn to 313.

19
If you have the Horn of Hever, turn to 335; other-
wise, turn to 72-

20

After half a day's travel through the chest-high
grass of Pikestaff Plain, nothing more exciting has
happened than pollen causing you to sneeze once in
a while. The landscape is featureless —just the same
grass all around, However, you do come across a
tiny trail. It is no more than fifteen centimetres
wide, and therefore hard to spot among the stems,
but it is a definite trail, running dead straight from
south-west to north-east. Will you ignore it and
carry on more or less due north (turn to 240), or wart
by it (turn to 202)?

21-22

25

Before long, you reach the first trees. As you walk
through the forest, keeping the lake in sight on your
night hand, the evergreen trees get older and taller:
their branches form a dark canopy above your head,
through which only the occasional beam of sunlight
breaks. Even these welcome shafts die out as you
continue northwards on the first leg of your hazar-
dous journey — but only because night is beysinning
to fall. Will you camp here by the lakeside {turn to
316), or carry on through the deepening dusk (turn
to 242)?

22

When you raise the sceptre and orb, a shimmering
screen appears between the oaks, and you step
through. You immediately come face tu face with
Vashti the ageless. She nods gravely in recognition
of you and the importance of your quest. ‘It is good
that you have come here,’ she says. ‘There are still
perils for you to overcome, but it is certain that you
could not complete your mission without seeing
me. But I could not come to you, though I wanted
to. For once — it would be a dozen centuries ago by
your mortal reckoning —T left this timeless land, bul
was set upon by countless Greater Demons. During
the battle, [lost the means of leaving my Jand again.
Lwonder if you know whatl mean” Ifyou do know
what she means, turn to the paragraph whose num-
ber is the same as the page of the book which gave
you the clue, Otherwise, turn to 329. |
23-25

23
The old woman looks up when you approach. A
look of fear flits over her face, then she begins to
laugh hysterically. She is obviously crazy. Will you
slap her face to shock her out of the hysteria (turn 2
164), or sadly leave herin her torment (turn to 336)?

24
Will you continue along the read (turn to 312), oF
turn to cross the ploughed field you saw earlier

(turn to 396)?

25

Not far upstream you come across the prostrate
body of a hill-tribe warrior. It is this that is blocking
the stream, Several arraws are protruding from her,
but she is just alive- If you bought a Healing Potion
from the alchemist and have not used it on yourself,
you can use it on her, if you want (tum to 338):
otherwise, turn to 300-

26

You sleep fong and well (restore 2 sTAMINA
points}, and wake up in the moming refreshed and
determined to ask Hever immediately about his
horn. You find him in the Privy Chamber, He has
shown himself to be both friendly and trustworthy,
50 you tell him about your quest and explain how
useful his fabled horn would be. Heveris quiet fora
syhile after you have finished talking. Then he says,

t is clear that your mission is so dangerous that,
were you to take my horn, I might never see it again;
and yetitisa bulwark of my reign. IfI giveitto you, |
must have in return something of great value.’ If
you have a magic crystal mirror, turn to 58; other-
wise, turn to 149.

27
The chill mist seeps into your bones. You slap
yourself and jump up and down to keep warm, but
you sill lose 2 sTamtNa points. Turn to 362.

28-30

28

The Wood Elves eventually stop in an empty clear-
ing. Speak some words in an arcane, liquid language
- and immediately their village is visible in the
clearing! Of course: Wood Elves’ yillages are often
protected by magic. You are taken to the largest hut,
which is set well apart from the others at the far end
of the village. Inside, the chief Elf and his shaman
ere gazing seriously into a crystal mirror and mut-
tering darkly to each other, They look up when you
enter, and astonishment spreads over their faces.
They dismiss your guards, and then the chief
addresses you, ‘Stranger,’ he says, ‘what is it that
you want? What are you doing here?’ Will you tell
them of your quest (turn to 228), make up some
other reason for being in the forest (turn to 5), or try
to look in the mirror (turn to 87)?

itis very awkward to manage the snow-shoes with
your hands tied. They require a half-walking, half-
siding motion, and it would helpif you could swing
your arms. You try to persuade your captor to untie
you. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, he unties you,
because you are slowing him down. In any case,
turn tt) 273.

30
On the base of the statuette are runes which give the
goddess’s name as Cholumbara, a minor agricul-
tural deity of Khul. Return to 112 and choose again,
31-34

31

You start back from the lip, just as the ground gives
way beneath your feet. You land heavily on your
bottom, but do not fall into the water. You pick
yourself up, head in the opposite direction and soon
pick up the trailagain. Will you tur left (turn to 263)
or right (turn to 156)?

3+

The door creaks open on rusty hinges, but no mm-
mediate danger confronts you. You hear the click of
rats’ claws across the stone ground as you advance
up the tunnel, but you ignore them. There is only
one way for you now — forward — and everything
else is a distraction. However, the tunnel forks likea
serpent’s tongue. Will you go left (turn to 19) or
right (tuen to 224)?

33
Roll hwo dice. If the total is less than your SKILL

score, turn to 64; if the total is more than or equal to
your SKiL1 score, turn to 6.

You must eat 1 lot of Provisions just to keep your
strength up. A full night's travel brings you to the
end of the grass, The landscape facing you ts moor-
land, dotted with rocks and shrubs, and ctss-
crossed by numerous streams and rivers, which
reflect the dawn sun. You rest for a while and then
carry on. Turn to 68.

35-38

35
The fall hurts you badly. Roll one die and add 1: you
lose this many STAMIN A points. If you ate still alive,
you decide to explore the Dragon’s cave instead of
attempting the glacier again. Turn to 204.

36

When you peer down the shaft, you can see a series
of wooden rungs set into the smooth stone side and
disappearing into darkness. A stale smell from the
depths of the mine assails your nostrils. Will you go
down or not? If not, you leave the area (turn to 343).
If you go down, you can either trust to the ladder
(turn to 289) or, if you have a rope, you can tie ittoa
sturdy-tooking beam and let yourself down (tur to
225)-

37
You camp on the northern side of the hill. During
the night, the first snow falls. If vou have a Wildcat’s
pelt or an Antifreeze Potion, turn ta 344; othermvise,
turn to 227.

38
The current grow's stronger again, and soon you are
alarmed to hear the ominous boom of a large water-
fall ahead. Although the cliffs gradually get lower,
until the river is bounded on both sides by ordinary
banks, the current is now far tao strong for you to
Steer your log over to the side. Before long you can
see the lip of the waterfall; fine spray forms a mist
39

which scems to hang above it, scintillating with
rainbow colours, But you don’t have time ft
appreciate the beauty of the scene: more practical
features claim your attention. The lip of the water-
fall is partially lined with rocks, which jut outot the
water at intervals, If you haye a rope, you could ty
to lasso one of the rocks (turn to 302). Alternatively,
you could try to turn the log so that it wedges
against two of the rocks (turn to 217).

39
You lie down on the bank and dip your flask into the
water of a small inlet. All seems fine at first, but
when you next come to drink irom your flask, you
sill find that the foul water of the lake has rotted it
and made it useless. Until you can find another
flask, your Provisions will restore only 3 STAMINA
points, instead of the usual 4. You settle down to
sleep, in blissful ignorance of your misfortune. Tum

to 76,

i  —

40-41

40
Assoon as the sorceress has slum

; : ped to the ground,
you whirl around —and find just who you expected,
with his dagger raised to strike you in the back. He
curses you for your cleverness, and lunges at you,

fHE TRAITOR

SKILLS STAMINAIO

If vou win, turn to 400.

Ps 4 45
Your eyes receive the full force of the acid, and you
are temporarily blinded. Reduce your sKILL by 5
points for this ficht. re

SPIT VIPER SKILL 4 STAMINA 4

If you win, you wait until the worst of the effects

have wom off, but you must reduce your SKILL

ieee t point. Will you now stay waiting
¥ the ant-trail (turn to 277), or carry on

Sipe ) cry on north (turn
42-44

‘ou enter the feast-roam, Seated at the tables is a
strange assortment of creatures. Humans rubshoul-
ders with Elves; Bird Men are talking with Dwarf
warriors; there is even a friendly Giant, tucking into
half a roasted ox. But over them all, lord of his own
domain, sits Hever, to whom anger and merriment
are equally pleasing. You are led to the high table,
where the place of honourat Hever's right hand has
been kept free for you. “You are welcome, cousin,’
booms Hever. For so | think I may address you. Be
seated, and forget your tiresome journey for the
hours that you pass here. Why don‘t I have your
things taken up to your room?” If you accept, you
retain your sword, but your other belongings are
taken away by the guard who ushered you into the
great hall (turn to 71). If you decline, turn to 389.

43
You meet the Alligator head on. It is not evil, sa the
Horn of Hever will have no effect on it, and you
must reduce your SkILt by 1 point for this fight,
because the water hampers your movements.

ALLIGATOR SKILL7 STAMINA 10

If you win, you swim across to the northern shore.
Turn to 393-

44
This quietens her down immediately. ‘The ring of
my sisters’ coven in Affen Forest,’ she says in
amazement. ‘How did you - . . ? Never mind: it’s
45

good to have it back. Now, what was it I had to tell
you? Oh, ves. Seek the Juja. I don't know where he
lives, but there's supposed to be a due ina riddle: “T
am not earth, but] can support; lam not water, but!
can yield; Iam not air, but I can belch; 1am not fire,
but I can explode. What am 1?” And that's really alll
can tell you; I hope it’s helpful.’ This is most puz-
zling. Will you thank her and walk on north (tum to
336) or north-east (tum to 323)? Orwill you first ask
her what happened to the village (turn to 249)?

45
‘The shaman finds nothing which can convince him

of your good intentions towards the Elves’ precious
forest. ‘Well,’ says the chief, after some consider-
ation, ‘we do not want to hinder you, but we do not
want you in our forest any more.” He whispers
something to the shaman, who nods and begins to
mutter a spell, while the chief unties your hands-
The village starts to dissolve and you feel yourself
floating. Turn to 382.

46-47

46

You quickly don the Cloak. It will not keep
you invisible long enough to escape from the
Dragon altogether, so you simply use it to attack the
Dragon more effectively. However, after you have
wounded it Hwice, for 4 sTaAMINA points of injury,
your body warms up as a result of your efforts; this
makes mist form around you in the cold air, and the
Dragon will be able to see where you are from now
on. Still, you now fight it with more chance of
SUCCESS.

ICE DRAGON STAMINA IO

By the ime you win (if you do}, the Cloak will have
lost its powers (cross it off your Adventure Sheet).
Will you search the Dragon’s cave (turn to 204), or
push on straight for Kill Garmash (turn to.298)?

SKILL1I0

47
Only a few kilometres north you find an impassable

canyon. There is no bridge here across its span of
several hundred metres, and the sides are tov steep
to climb. Animals, fleeing the fire, are jumping
over, or being pushed by other beasts, to their
deaths in the shallow river at the bottom of the
48-50

gorge, about half a kilometre below. If you have
rope, it will not reach the bottom, of course, but you
could tic one end of the rope to a boulder and let
yourself down until the fire burns itself out at this
natural fire-break (turn to ge). Alternatively, you
could run along the edge of the cliff tothe west (turn
to 278) or east (turn to 134), hoping to find some way
down or across; or you could race away from the cif
and towards the fire (turn to 359)-

48
You make your way at a crouch to the dip and roll

expertly down the side — and disturb a couple of
pheasants, which rise noisily into the air. Apart
from the fact that the suddenness of the noise nearly
gives you a heart attack, the next time you loak up,
the dell is ringed by Elves, arrows ready on taut
bowstrings. Turn to 358.

49
You can tell by a slight draught when you pass a
sidle-passage on your left. Will you take the side-
passage (turn to 306) or carry on (turn to 16)?

50

The winner is the one who wanted to take you t
Morgana. He draws a dagger and holds it to your
throat, while he unties you from the tree, disarms
you and ties your hands behind your back. Then
he puts his dead companion’s snow-shoes on you
and takes you at spear-point north towards Krill
Garnash. Turn to 29.

51-52

51
You find that the tunnel curves. You peep around
the corner and see a monstrous silhouette against a
star-spangled night sky, visible through the tunnel
mouth. Test your Luck. Lf you are Lucky, turn to 33; if
you are Unlucky, furn to 6.

52
By the time you have no choice except to enter your
fire-break, it is still very hot, and causes you 4
STAMINA points of burns. But at least you are safe.
Turn to 114.
53

53
Truehand’s advice scems sound. Not far north of

Arion is the vast Lake Nekros; just north of the lake
lies Fallow Dale. From there you could head north
and slightly east over Pikestaff Plain, leaving Marsh
file to the west, and through the foothills and
mountains, until you came to Knill Garnash itself,
with its fiye ice-capped peaks lost in the clouds.

After a few days of easy travel, with springs and
game Ss) plentiful that you still have all your original
Provisions, you reach the squthern shore of Lake
Nekros, and the end of civilization as you know it.
Beyond this, the ways are unknown to the people af
Arion.

Within memory Lake Nekros has never been
crossed. People speak of unfathomable depths
spawning hideous monsters, and of strange and
mysterious winds and currents which tum the chill,

54-55

still waters into whirlpools and ungovernable
waves. Nevertheless, your most direct route is
across it. Will you, bold hero that vou are, build a
raft and embark across the lake (tum to 109), or
stike out around its eastern edge, through rolling
hills (turn to 245), or around its western edge,
through Affen Forest (turn to 21)?

Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 124; if you
are Unlucky, turn to 18.

55

As you walk along, your attention is for some
reason drawn to your shadow, which bobs up and
down on the boulders you pass, or gets smudged by
the shrubs. Suddenly, to your astonishment and
elarm, it bulges and changes shape. This cannot be
your shadow any more: for a start, you don’t have
horns on your head. Sheer terror makes the hairs on
the back of your neck stand up, when the Shadow
Monster detaches itself from your shadow, and
launches itself at you, brandishing a trident.

SHADOW MONSTER sKILL7

This lesser demon is solid enough to injure yau as
normal, but you can cause it only 1 STAMINA point
of injury every time you win an Attack Round. If
you win, you think about changing direction. Will
you head north-east (turn te 323) or north (turn to
336)?

STAMINA 6
56-59

56

A little way beyond the village you come to the ruins
of what was once a farmhouse and its bars. Sitting
im front of the farmhouse is an old woman, thread-
ing bones on to a length of twine. She is mumbling
to herself, and hasn’t noticed you yet. Will you
approach her (turn to 23), or make your way around
the farmhouse under cover (turn to 336)?

57

The tunnel begins to slope upwards, which makes
you hopeful of finding a way out soon. But then the
shafts come to an end, and the way ahead is pitch-
black and the air gets foul At first you wonder why
the shafts should end; but then you reckon that you
may be under the lake. Will you plod on through the
darkness (turn to 352), or retrace the kilometre or so
you have already travelled, back past the main
shaft, in an easterly direction (turn to 388)?

58
You hand over the crystal mirror to Hever. He takes
it, frowns in recognition of it and the foolish or evil
deed you must have done to get hold of it, and turns
it towards you. Turn to 209.

59
Eleven vast shapes loom out of the darkness. One of
them lights a torch, and then you can see that the
eleven Golems are surrounding you. There is no
60-64

time to get anything from your pack. If you can call
on Galrin, you will know where to turn; othenwise
your body is mangled and your adventure is over.

60
The creature's paw slams into your arm. Lose 1
Sx11.Land 2 STAMINA points; then retum to1g2and
continue the fight.

61
Soon you are crawling on hands and knees; then the
tunnel ends. You turn around. On the way back,
will you keep pressed to the right-hand wall (turn to
309) or the left-hand wall (turn to 141)?

62
Turn to 332.

63
You are about halfway across when the bridge
snaps. You scrabble for a handhold, but find none,
and plunge to your death in the canyon below.

You use your head, and grope for something on the
floor — it turns out, by the feel of it, to be a small
skull. You toss this so that it lands in the tunnel
mouth, and the creature lumbers over there. This
enables you to see your opponent clearly. It 6 a
Nandibear, which must have been using the dis-
used mine entrance as its den.

65-67

You will have to fight it, but you are able to creep up
behind it and wound it first (roll one die and reduce
its STAMINA by that much), and also te fight it in
the tunnel mouth, where your skiit will not be
impaired by darkness.

NANDIBEAR

= you win, turn to 222.

SKILL STAMINA II

65
You are impaled between the spiked door and the
wall of the cavern. Your adventure is over.

66

the farmer ts overjoyed at your gift. ‘This will more
than compensate,” he says. ‘“Cholumbara‘s presence
will increase my crops for sure.’ You are pleased to
have got out of an ugly situation so easily (and also
to have shed the weight of the statuette). Add 1
LUCK point. You make your way now to the castle
gates. Turn to 78.

67

You ie down on the bank and dip your flask into the
water of a small inlet. All seems fine at first, but
when you next come to drink from your flask, you
will find that the foul lake water has rotted it and
made it useless. Until you find another flask, your
Provisions will restore only 3 sTAMLNA points,
instead of the usual 4. You settle down to sleep, in
blissful ignorance of your misfortune, Turn to 226,
68-70

68
if you followed the ant-trail at all, turn to 291;
othenvise, furn fo 350-

69
‘Easily done,” says the chief, He whispers some-
thing to the shaman. who nods and begins to casta
spell. The village starts to dissolve and you feel
yourself floating- Turn to 382-

79

Forseveral days you trudge west. The canyon varies
im width and depth, but it is never feasible to
attempt a crossing. The sides remain absolutely
sheer. The plentiful carrion has attracted many
birds: apart from crows and normal birds of prey,
you occasionally sight larger winged creatures some
way off. Eventually, one of them decides to see if
this thing which moves in the burned wilderness is
also edible, and you are attacked by a Giant
Bloodhawk. This huge creature swoops out of
the sky with its four-metre wingspan, talons out-
stretched fo grip you and allow the cmiel beak
to do its work. If you have the Cloak of Temporary
Invisibility, and wish to use it, furn to 103; otherwise
turn £0 327.

71-74

The meal is well in progress (restore 4 STAMINA
points) when the guard returns with a worrying
tale. Tle was attacked by some Pygmy Orcs inside
your room, and knocked unconscious. When he
came to, your helmet had gone and there was no
sign of the thieves. You immediately ask to be
directed to your room, while Hever is busy organiz-
ing a search-party. When you get there, you soon
find a rape dangling out of the window to the
ground below, which is outside the castle walls.
Will you grab } your belongings and go alone down
the rope in pursuit of the thieves {turn to 166), or
wait for ever (turn to 137)?

72
A side-passage opens up to yourright. Will you take
it (turn tu 369) or carry straight on (turn & 170)?

The tree has been truncated, so it is no long or
difficult climb. From your vantage point at the top,
you can see the Elves passing below you. Will you
keep quiet and let them pass (tur to 212), or drop
down on the last one, who has fallen a little way
behind the others (turn to 286)?

74
The skeleton’s empty eye-sockets blaze into chill life
and transfix you with a deadly beam. Your adven-
ture is over.

75-77

75>
The plan works (restore 1 LUCK point). For one

awful moment your legs are swept over the edge,
following the log, but you hang on and haul your-
self on to the rack. There are not enough rocks to
form a causeway to the north bank, but you could
try to make it to the south bank. Ifyou have Boots of
Agility, turn to 372; otherwise, turn to 188.

You sleep as deeply as if you had no cares in the
world, Butin the small hours of the morning, some-
thing disturbs the quiet surface of the lake. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 135; if you are
Unlucky, turn to 280-

In the morning, you set off north again, and travel
for a couple of days through the barren landscape.
Your uneventful journey, however, makes you less
cautious than usual, and when youare walking past
78-79

some large boulders, you fail to notice the Wildcat
basking on top of one. The tip of its tail flicks from
side to side as you approach, and then it leaps on to
you, immediately inflicting 2 STAMINA points of
injury te you. You toss it off your shoulders on to
the ground, and just have time to notice that itis a
pretty large specimen, before it springs into the
attack again. Wildcats are not evil, just wild, so the
Torn of Hever will have no effect; and you have no
time to get anything from your pack.

WILDCATI
If you win within four Attack Rounds, the cat's pelt

is undamaged enough to be worth keeping. After-
wards, turn to 13.

SKILL6 STAMINAS

78

Tt is evening svhen you reach the gates. Two Dwart
guards ask your business, then show you inside toa
sparsely furnished waiting-room. One of them re-
turns before long. ‘My Lord Hever is dining,’ he
says, ‘and asks whether you will jom him Will you
accept and go straight away (turn to 42), orask tobe
shown t) your room first (furn to 120)?

‘i Sa
The bank becomes increasingly bogey. Will you
now’ head left through the forest (turn to 174), or
continue along the bank (turn to 97)?

§o-82

So

Some of the alchemist’s wares are of interest to you:
2 Potion of Luck, for 3 Gold Pieces, which will
restore your LucK to its Initial level; a Potion of
Healing, for 5 Gold Pieces, which will restore up to 6
STAMINA points (you can use it now or save it for
later); a Cloak of Termnporary Invisibility, for 10 Gold
Pieces; an Antifreeze Potion, which will protect you
against cold, for 5 Gold Pieces; and, for 6 Gold
Pieces, Boots of Agility. Buy what you wantand can
efford, and then return to the paragraph you wereat
before, and continue on your way.

81
if you talked to Vashti, turn to 258; otherwise, turn
to 347.

82
The remainder of the journey to Fallow Dale is
uneventful, apart from the occasional skirmish with
a wild beast. At one point you are convinced that
you see a Sabre-toothed Tiger slinking through the
trees, but by luck — or because the beast was not
hungry — it does not come near you. You keep
getting lost in the forest, and the journey takes
longer than it should: you run out of Provisions a
day before breaking out of the forest and finding
Fallow Dale spread out before you. Reduce your
STAMINA score by 3 points for weakness, then turn

to 178.
83-85

83
Lose 2 LuCK points for cowardice. You have no
choice now except to leave Fallow Dale. Turn to 384.

84

As you walk on down the main street, you notice
other skeletons — but genuinely lifeless ones. The
whole village has obviously been wiped out in a
fairly recent raid. Will you poke around any of the
houses (turn to 315) or nat (turn ta 56)?

85

You sit down to rest after your labours. Then to your
smazement a spectral army glides across the surface
of the lake. There are atleast forty of them, and most
ate dressed in the battered remnants of armour of
bygone days. You jump to your feet in alarm. You
can see through them, but you alsu have no doubt
that they are substantial enough to make their
presence felt in this earthly realm.

While you are wondering what to do, one of them
steps forward on to the bank. He was once a man in
the prime of life, long-haired and with noble and
stern features. ‘Fear not,’ his ghostly voice whis-
pers. “You have done us great service. With the
death of the Kraken we, its victims, are released
from our bondage to this spectral form. But we
repay our debts. Before we go to our final rest in the
underworld, we will assist you once in the course of
your quest — but my advice would be not to call us
except in the direst need. You can summon us by
86-88

my name: itis Galrin.” With that, the leader and his
hast of followers vanish. When the book tells you
that you can call on Galrin, turn to te. Fornow, add
2 LUCK points. You decide not to spend any more
time by the lake shore: you head north and slightly
east, through rolling hills. A heavy mist descends at
dawn, and you are soon hopelessly lost. Turn to
108.

86

Again you safely cross the chasm in the darkness.
The gods must be smiling on you. Regain 1 tucx
point. If you have not stopped to eat Provisions
so far during your underground journey, lose 2
STAMINA points. Your journey is long, but
nothing happens. You pass the spot where the
main shaft enters the mine, and carry on eastwards.
Turn to 388.

if your hands are tied, turn to 192; if your hands are
free, turn to 150.

88
‘Excellent!’ she exclaims. ‘We're all set, then, aren't
we? You know about the sigils, the keys of power
for which Morgana lusts. But do you know how
they are portrayed? If you place six equally spaced
marks around a crele and join them in any order,
returning to the mark you began with, you will
find that there are twelve possible patterns. Now,
people — those who are types of people — obey the

|

|

83

laws of the sigils. Morgana has been seizing such
people, dead or alive, and transforming their
essence into masks for her Golems. You probably
know that she’s got the bard and the farmer, at any
rate, and you'll now realize that the bard‘s brand,
for instance, is a sigil. Now look at your helmet.’
You do so, and gasp with astonishment: ‘It’s one of
the sigils! ‘Precisely,’ continues Vashii. ‘Itis the one
we call the maler, whichis what you are, afterall; itis
the one which binds together all the sigils and
confirms their power; and it is the one which
Morgana is missing.’

The implications of this are enormous. ’But that
means I'm walking into a trap!" vou cry. She wants
me there, to turn meinto a Golem too!’ ‘Thatis true,’
says Yashti, "but itis also true that you are the one to
prevent this evil plot. You must continue with your
sussion.” You are fired with grim resolution, and
immediately take your leave of Yashti. She plants
two of the seeds you have given her, and they
spring up as full-blossomed apple trees. You walk
between them back into the world of time, and find
yourself right by the oak trees, as if you had just
stepped befiveen them. The sun is exactly where it
was when you entered Vashti's realm. Turn to 37.

89-92
89

You trip over a rock on the way down, and tumbie
down the slope, landing on your feet in the circle of
firelight. Turn to 254-

9°
You let yourself down on to a ledge where you can
comfortably wait for the fire to end. The fire does
eventually die out, but not before it has burned
through the end of your rope which is tied to the
boulder. You are-marooned on your ledge, untl
starvation or birds of prey finish you off.

92

While you are waiting, you are so intent on watch-
ing the ants that you fail to notice a large poisonous
snake rustling the grass as it slithers up behind you,
until it is almost too late. You whirl around, but itis
a Spit Viper, and it spits acid at your eyes. Test your
Luck. If you ate Lucky, tum to 255; if you are
Lnlucky, turn to 41.

92

You can get nothing more out of him, but while you
question him, he sidles off to the side of the room
and, cringing, brings back a bundle of rags, which
he offers to you. When you unwrap them, you
discover a magnificent sceptre. It is made only of
irom, but is clearly of great age and has an aura of
regal authority. You want to ask the old man about
it, but he has collapsed unconscious on the floor. As

93

you are stowing the sceptre safely in your pack, you
notice that it is inscribed with runes, which you
translate as “here should be just one ruler.” Then
you leave: turn to 231.

93
With death, Kevin's heroic resistance snaps once

and forall, and the evil spint implanted im his body
isable to take control. it too jumps toits feet—that is,
Kevin's feet — and it hurls an impenetrable magical
barner around itself and you. But because you have
moved closer to Hever, he is caught inside the
barrier and helps you in the fight. The spirit, cack-
ing with glee and cracking a fiery nine-tailed whip,
has eyes only for you; but every time you win

94-95

an Attack Round, you may assume that Hever
has been successful too, and reduce the fiend’s
STAMINA by 3 instead of 2. You cannot kill this
demon, but if you win the fight, it will return to the
nether regions, leaving Kevin in peace at last.

HELLFIRE SPIRIT

If you both win, the barrier dissolves. Turn to 132.

SKILLG STAMINA 12

They can see from your footprints where you are,
and can guess where to aim their spears. One of
them throw's a spear after you as you flee. Roll one
die, On 1-3, turn to 244; on 4-6, tum to £74.

95
You succeed in reaching another place of hiding,
behind a tree-trunk. The Elves (there are six of
them} have meanwhile surrounded your former
hiding-place. Will you make a mun for it, while they
are otherwise occupied (turn to 297), or continue to
creep away (turn to 158)?

96-97

When you are some way up the glacier, you slip and
slide out of control back down the slope. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 339; if you are
Unlucky, turn to 35.

97
The effort of wading through the clinging mire costs
yOu 2 STAMINA points. But the boggy area dacs not
last too long- Will you now rest for the remainder of
the night (turn to 316), or carry on along the bank
(turn to 234)?

—EE

“

See

3

=
|
=
=
=
“=
4
—_-
.

98-09

98

For several days you trudge east. The canyon varies
in width and depth, but it is never feasible to
attempt a crossing, and the sides remain absolutely
sheer, Early one morning you encounter a hostile
Hill Giant, who has been roaming the burned
wilderness to see what tasty or profitable pickings
the bush-fire left in its wake. One look at you’
convinces him that you could be both tasty and
profitable! He lumbers inte the attack, wielding a
massive club. If vou have the Cloak of Temporary
invisibility, and wish to use it, it will be easy taavoid
this fight (turn to 160), but then cross the Cloak off
your Adventure Sheet, because its magic only works
once. Otherwise, fight your vast opponent.

Hilt GIANT SKILL Q STAMINA 11

ii you win, yuu look through the Giant's pack to see
what he has found. You find only 3 Gold Pieces and
a badly dented, but otherwise plain helmet. Will
you try on the helmet (turn to 311), or leave it and
continue on your way (turn to 18a)?

For t Gold Piece you can buy food and drink that
will restore 2STAMENA points. Dosa, if you canand
want to; then you leave the village. Turn to 24.

100-101

100

The spectral army appears and you stand back to let
them do their work. It does not take long. Galrin
salutes you, and then he and his followers vanish
for ever. Youare free to coninue—and it soon turns
nut that the Golems’ cavern was the ante-chamber
to Morgana’s throne-room. You enter a vast cavern.
Morgana herself is seated on a black throne m the
centre. She shrieks at you: ‘So you think you have
destroyed my pets, do you? You fool! I can always
make more!’ You leap towards her throne, to slop
her fou] mouth for ever. Turn to 295-

101
The noise you made has alerted the creature, and
you hear it lumbering towards you, An easily recog-
nizable grunt soon lets you know what you are up
against—a Nandibear. lt must have been using the
entrance to the mine as its den. Then it is upon you.
Reduce your SkILt by + point for this fight, because
of the darkness.

NANDIBEAR

If you win, turn to 222.

STAMINAI2

SKILL

102-105

102
You start a small fire and move away north to wait
until your fire has, as you hape, created a fire-break
between you and the bush-tire. It does nothing of
the sort. Your own fire is driven before the wind
towards you and even if you can run around it,
there will be no time to escape the bush-fire now.
Your adventure is over.

103
You put on the Cloak. The Bloodhawk squawks in
dismay at your disappearance — but then, with the
cunning of a natural predator, simply gains enough
height to watch and wait. The Cloak’s powers will
wear off pretty soon (cross it off your Adventire
Sheet): you have merely delayed the battle. Turn to

327-

104
lf your STAMINA is less than 12, turn to 197; if itis 12
or more, turn to 15-

105

After a couple of hours, the ant-traffic has not
noticeably increased, and you have seen no sign of
the nest or anything being carried along that is
more valuable than a rusty nail. Will you carry on
along the trail (turn to 304), or turn north again (turn

to 149)?
406-109

106

The fleeing Spriggans did not gather up all their
belongings. You find 10 Gold Pieces and a large
garnet ring, but nothing else of value- lhe Sprig-

ns had evidently been a thieving party. You
decide ta spend what remains of the night in the
welcome light of the Spriggans’ magical lamps,
which will disappear at full light, butuntil then, you
reckon, will keep any further hostile creatures at
bay. In fact, the time does pass quietly, In the
morning, with mist from the lake dnfting between
the trees, you discover two paths, both heading
roughly north. Will you take the north-west path
(turn to 115) or the north-east path (furn to 398)?

107

It takes your eyes a few moments to adjust to the
gloom after the bright sunshine outside. Then you
see that, although the ceiling is festooned with
cobwebs, the floor is fairly free of dust. There is a
table with a wooden bow! and spoon on it, and 2
crudely made stool tucked underneath. Will you
leave before the occupant of the hut appears (tum to
231}, or look around (turn to 279)?

108
Will you stay where you are until the mist dears
(turn to 27), or press on regardless (turn tos 35)?

209
Night has fallen by the time you have completed
your raft. Strangely, when you launch it, no ripples

110-111

disturb the surface of the lake; and the gibbous
moon is not reflected in its dark depths. You have
paddled no more than a hundred metres when five
thick tentacles pull you for ever under the water.

110

The old woman greedily snatches the lovely choker
and puts it on. The choker promptly lives up to its
name and strangles her. You should have known
better than to trust anything found on the servants
of evil. Lose 1 Lucx point. You quickly make your
way out of the area. Will you go north (turn to 336)
or north-east (turn to 323)?

111

The soldiers don’t know you, of course, and there
you are with your sword drawn, and there is their
friend's corpse: it all looks very suspicious. They
push you into your room and post guards outside,
while others go off to report the incident. When you
look around your room, you see that your helmet is
missing, and you seon find a rope dangling out of
the window to the ground below. The thief or
thieves, who were presumably in league with the
Ore, must have escaped that way. Will you grab
your things and go down the rope yourself in pur-
suit (turn to 166), call for help (tum to 377), or await
developments (turn to 342)?

112-114

112
You decide to inspect the items you acquired in the
Doragars’ lair. You soon find that some of the items
are just what they seem. But if you have:

A Snattacat’s tusk Turn to 302

A leather pouch Turn to 332

A statuette Turn to 30

None of these Turn to 121
113

The easy journey of the past few days has made you
careless. As you walk whistling down the path
through the frees, you are set upon by a Giant
Bioodsucking Spider. This vile beast, already
bloated with the blood of woodland creatures, is
delighted to find larger prey, and drops in front of
you from a tree. Sheer repulsion at the sight freezes
you for an instant, but then your sword is out and
ready. You have no time to get anything out of your
pack.

BLOODSUCKING
SPIDER SKILL6 STAMINA 14

The Spider is too heavy to move very fast: you could
try to escape, if you want to (turn to 273). lfyoustay
put and win the fight, you continue cautiously
through the copse (turn to 126).

114
You are safe within your fire-break, and you follow
it to the north, to keep well away from the suffocat-
115-117

ing heat of the bush-fire, Aftera few kilometres, you
find thal your fire has burned itself out at the edge of
a huge canyon, about half a kilometre deep and
almost as wide. The sides are too steep to dimb and
there is no bridge here. Turn to io.

115

Reduce your sTAMINA by 2 points if you have not
eaten while in the forest. The route you are taking
shortly offers yau a choice between two paths. If
you take the one which disappears into the trees to
the north-west, turn to 263. If you take the one
which winds between the trees in a north-easterly
direction, tum to &2-

116
Your plan fails. You are dashed to your death on the
sharp rocks at the foot of the waterfall-

117

When you reach the bottom, you find that the river,
which flows from east to west, is faster and wider
than it looked from up on the cliff. The movement of
the water makes it impossible to tell how deep itis.
You are on a kind of small beach, but the nver nns
full up to the sheer cliffs on either side of the beach.
There are sone quite large logs and tree-trunks cast
up on the beach, among smaller driftwood. There is
a similar heach straight across the river. Will you
wade or swim across (turn 10 235), or paddle your-
self across on a log (turn to 368)?

118-120

118
This gets you nowhere, but your increasingly frantic
and frustrated scrabbling loses you 3 STAMINA
points. Eventually you give up and retum to try the
other branch of the tunnel. Turn to 399.

119

The door swings open on to your destruction. Itis so
swift that you cannot even identify its source, but
your adventure is over-

120
You are shown to a room in the north-east tower,
whose slit window overlooks Fallow Dale and as far
as the beginning of Pikestaff Plain. he guard waits
outside, while you shed your pack and helmet (but
retain your sword), and repair your appearance as
much as possible. You are just finishing, when there
is 2 commotion in the corridor outside. You open
the door to see a Prgmy Ore withdrawing a dagger
from the guard's body. You draw your sword and
challenge the Orc. Your opponent may be small, but
he is nimble: he ducks your thrusts and is hard to

wound.

PYGMY ORC SKILLF

After two Attack Rounds, you both hear more
soldiers a ching at a run. The Orc darts away
around a corner. Will you follow (turn to 8), or wait
for these reinforcements (turn to 111)?

STAMINAS
121-123

121
You rest, eat Provisions, and drink fresh water from
the nearby spring. If you have no Provisions, re-
store only 2$1Ta MINA points for the rest and drink;
otherwise, restore the full 4 stamina points. In
either case, you may add 2 LUCK points for surviv-
ing the deadly mine. In the morning you reluctantly
leave this haven. Turn to 343.

122

When you dived below the water, you saw some
thing extraordinary on the bottom of the pool. A
human skeleton was sitting on a throne of weeds.
Will you dive down again to investigate this remark-
able, but possibly dangerous phenomenon (turn to
261), or will you swim over to the northem shore
(turn to 393)?

123
When you are three quarters of the way through the
pass, the snow all around you starts to move round
and round, like a semi-solid whirlpool. You have
obviously disturbed the rest of a Chion, deep be-
neath the snow, and it is now spiralling its way to
the surface. This is how these gigantic worm-like

creatures trap their prey. The snow collapses into
the gap they make when they leave their resting-
place, and the terrified victim falls into the gaping
hole. If you are wearing snow-shoes or Boots of
Agility, turn to 198; otherwise, turn 10 363-

124-126

tilt
You land safely. Turn tv 313.

125

You camp for the night on the borders of Marsh
Vile. All night long, within the mists and vapours
which shroud this illfamed region, lightning
flashes, and the bubbles of marsh gas which form on
the surface of the stagnant pools pop and explode.
In the morning will you at last turn to the north-east
Ca to 374), or will you explore Marsh Vile (turn to
345)

126

You leave the copse behind you and continue up
towards the mountains, which now loom large and
forbiddimg in the near distance. The hills grow more
steep and bleak, so itis strange to see, crowning one
hill, two large and flourishing oak trees, like a portal
to the sunset beyond. Will you climb the hill and
investigate the trees (turn to 387), or carry deter-
minedly on with your joumey (turn to 37)?

127-128

127
Roll two dice. If the total is more than or equal to
YOUr SKILL score, turn to 203; if it is less than your
SKILL score, turn to 228.

128
You can see the five peaks of Krill Garnash in the
distance ahead, even though you are not yet in the
mountain range itself, but on the borders. One
morning, you see some extraordinarily large, slid-
ing footprints in the snow. Images of Yeti or Bigfeet
enter your mind, but you soon know better. You are
confronted by two hill tribesmen, wearing snow-
shoes. They are dressed in skins and look rather
formidable, especially with their short but sturdy
thrusting-spears. [If you have the Cloak of fempor-
ary Invisibility and wish to use it, turn to 390. Or will
you approach the tribesmen peacefully (turn to
383), or attack (turn to 282}?

129-131

129

One of the other Orcs has defeated his opponent
and now joins in the fightagainst you- You will have
to fight them both simultaneously. Choose one of
them to fight by the normal combat rules. But also
roll for the Attack Strength of the other: ifit is higher
than your Attack Strength in any Attack Round, he
wounds you; ifitis lower or equal, you have blocked
his blow (so you cannot wound this second oppo-
nent, only your main target}. Remember that the
first Ore may already have been wounded by you
and therefore have fewer STAMINA points.

SKILL STAMINA
First PYGMY ORC 6 10
Second PYGMY ORC 5 8

If you win, turn to 268,

130
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 297. If you
are Unlucky, you fail to escape (turn to 358)-

131
If your STAMINA scoreis 10 or less, turn to153;if itis
{1 or more, turn to 354.

132-134

i352
You answer Hever’s inevitable questions, but you
can only guess what treachery lies behind this
incident. Then you leave Fallaw Dale. Hever has
restocked you with the full amount of 10 lots of
Provisions, and given you a new pack and water-
flask. Turn to 20.

£33

The plan works. You pull yourself on to a rock and
look around. There are not enough rocks to form a
causeway to the north bank, but you could try to
make it to the south bank. Lf you have Boots of
Agility, tum to 372; if you have a rope, turn to 188.
Otherwise, you have a choice of two extremely risky
manocurtes; you could use the slippery rocks as
stepping-stones (turn to 159), or you could get back
into the water and fy to push yourlog from one pair
of rocks to the next, so that you can move along by
stages (turn to 324)-

134
in the hour or so which it takes for the fire to reach

you, vou have found no way out of your predica-
ment. You die a quick but agonizing death.

135-137

135
Your dreams abruptly change, and you suddenly sit
bolt upright, crying, “Kevin! No!’ But the memory of
your nightmare evaporates when you sec, by the
moonlight, that the slimy tentacles of a Kraken are
sliding out of the lake towards you. You can run
(turn to 183} or fight (turn to 307),

136
When you met Morgana before, she said ‘our little
plan’. You have been puzzling about this ever since,
and just now she said, ‘I've got you where ue
wanted’. While you are pondering this mystery,
an unseen enemy stabs you in the back. Your
adventure is over!

137

Hever comes to the room and you show him the
rope. He says that a search-party of five of his
soldiers is waiting for you in the courtyard. “I know
how important that helmet is to your family,” he
adds. ‘Ifor Tynin sent a message by eagle of your
coming, and mentioned the helmet as the sure way
to recognize you.” You jain the soldiers and set out
in pursuit of the thieves. Turn to 166.

133-141

138
You can see only a few metres ahead of you, so you
are pleasantly surprised when you come across a
trail, made by animals of some kind, running to
your left and right. Will you furn left (turn fo 156),
right (turn to 263), or continue through the trackless
hills (turn to 189)?

139
You land with such a thump on the trail that it
supports you for no more than an instant before
crumbling and plunging you to your death in the
chasm below.

140
By nightfall there is sll no end to the grass. Will you
flatten some of itand bed down for the night (turn fo
2}, Or press on (turn to 34)?

141
Test your Luck, if you are Lucky, turn to 86; if you are
Unlucky, turn to 163.

142-143

142

As you are walking through the pass, you seea large
snowball rolling down the eastern slope, and get-
ting larger all the time. The snowball comes ty a halt
at the foot of the mountain, in front of you. ‘l'hen, to
your surprise, the snowball disintegrates, and out
steps an Ice Hulk. These moronic creatures are
mutant Yetis (the mutation consisting mainly in the
disappearance of the Yeti’s already tiny brain). ‘This
one probably tipped over its own feet and tumbled
down the mountainside! It stares al you uncertainly
fora few moments, and then obviously decides that
you are edible. You will have to defend yourself,
unless you have the Cloak of Temporary Invisi-
bility, in which case you can avoid this encounter, if
you want to (furn to 267, but cross the Cloak off ycur
Adventure Steet, as its powers only work once).
since the Ice Hulk is not evil, just stupid, the Tarn
of Hever has no power over it.

ICE HULK SKILL46 STAMINA 12

The first time you winan Attack Round, tum to 3g2-
if you win, turn to 267.

You cannot tell at this distance whether or not the
figure is moving towards you, or whether your
shouts hare been heard. Will you call out again
(turn to 360), or give up and carry on (turn to 341)?
144-145

As you walk along, you notice that there are many
evenly spaced shaits, drilled through to the ground
above. These afford light and air, but are out of
reach and just as unclimbable as the one you fell
duwn. You conclude that the mine was once
worked by slaves, who needed to breathe and see,
but also had to be prevented from escaping.

It turns out that this was a copper mine; the vein is
worked out, but you find a nugget of greenish ore,
which you keep. Soon a side-passage, from which a
remarkably horrid stench is issuing, opens up to
your right. Will you take it (turn to 325), or continue
along the main tunnel {turn te 370)?

145
On the narrow rope bridge, you have no chance of

avoiding the Chimera’s fiery breath. Every fime it
svins an Attack Round, it will cause 3 STAMINA
poinis of injury; and even when it loses an Attack
Round, it will cause you 1 STAMINA point of injury.
So you are fighting a desperate battle.

CHIMERA SKILL

During the fight, the Chimera’s breath gradually
burns through the rope bridge. If you win, you must
choose whether fo continue across the now
weakened bridge (turn to 63) or retreat back towards
the cliff (turn to 272).

STAMINA6

146-148

146
Your captors soon find you. They have obviously
decided that you are more trouble than you're
worth, because they waste no time in dispatching
you with their spears. Your adventure ends here.

147
The tunnel curves, but you are unaware of this in
the darkness, and you min straight into the side.
Reduce yoursTa MINA by 1 point, and turn ty 101.

148
Roll two dice. Lf the total is greater than your SKILL
score, turn to 134; if the total is less than or equal to
your SKILE score, turn to 206.

1497151

149
‘I have nothing of value to offer you except myself,’

you say simply. Hever thinks for a moment. “All
right,” he says finally, ‘there is something you could
do for me. There is an exceptionally large Sabre-
toothed Tiger, which has its lair in Affen Forest, but
occasionally emerges and roams my lands, killing
my people and their flocks. If you can free my land
fram this beast, | will give you my horn. But it will
noi be easy: the Tiger is hard to get close to, and
extremely dangerous when cormered Will you
accept the test (turn to 249) or not (turn to 83)?

i50

The shaman raises his hands to casta spell, and the
chief draws his sword. With one siwilt movement,
you draw your own sword, laughing inwardly that
these stupid, trusting Elves did not disarm you, and
kill the shaman. Then you face the Elf chief.

WOOD ELF CHIEF

If you win, you seize your prize, the mirror. Will
you look in it straight away (harn to 209), or keep it
for later (turn to 351)?

SKILL7F STAMINA10

151
When you are about halfway across, the Waler
Snake which inhabits the pool coils itself around
your legs. This really makes it very difficult to walk.
Will you poke at the Water Snake with your sword
(turn to 127), or carry on struggling through (turn to
104)?

152-154

152

When vou reach the healer’s house, she explains
that she needs sorrel to make a lotion song enough
to help you. If you have some sorrel, the lotion will
restore 4 STAMINA points. Otherwise, you leave the
village, reckoning that Hever’s hospitality will do
you good. Turn to 24.

153
In your weakened state, you cannot think clearly,
and just plunge into the darkness. As a result, you
cannot see that the floor and wvalls are lined with
jagged rocks tipped with poison. You do not fail to
step on one. Your adventure is over.

154
“You may ask one question of us, to aid you in your

quest,” says the chief. Will you ask:

About Calrin? Turn to 248
What they have seen inthe mirror? =Turn ta 169
For free passage through the forest? Turn to 69

155-156

155
This find convinces them that you are a great war-
nor, and for the first time they speak to you, asking
why you are trespassing on their land. Will you tell
them you have come to kill Morgana (turn to 314) or
that you are a hunter (turn to 194)?

156

Whatever animals made the track were clearly not
interested in travelling in straight lines. Even with
your limited vision and muddled sense of direction,
you can tell that your course is meandering all
over the place. Still, you stick to the track, and it
cventually takes you to the top of a hill, where
ancient monohths jut like pitted teeth through the
Swirling mist.

The wind picks up and howls eerily across the
hilltop. Then a hollow voice sounds from all around
you: “Who is this who dares disturb the sacred place
of the Wights? No matter—the penalty is fixed.’ The
mist in the centre of the stones solidifies inte a
figure. On its head is a crown of pale fire, and in its
hand a glittering sword. Wherever you run, it seems
to block your way. You must stand and fight.

WIGHT SKIELG STAMINA 12

Ifyou win, you take the Wight’s sword, which tums
out to be of ancient and noble design— obviously the
lost property of some long-dead king, slain in times
past by this evil Wight. Add 1 to your SKILL score,
157-161

even if this takes you over your Initudl score. Will
you now stay where you are until the mist clears
(turn to 362), or continue on your way {turn to 3)?

157
Roll two dice. Tf the total is greater than your SKILL

score, turn to 216, If the total is less than or equal to
your SKIL... score, turn to 12.

i58
Two possible next places af refuge present them-
selves. You could try the hollow trunk of a vast and
ancient tree, once blasted by lightning (tum to 9), or
a slight dip in the ground, whose sides are covered
with ivy and tall bracken (furn to 48).

159
There are three rocks to cross. Roll one die three

times. lf you ever roll 1, you fall in and are swept
over the falls to your death. If you ever roll 2, you
slip and your helmet (if you still have it) falls off your
head and is lost, but you cling on to the rock. If you
succeed in reaching the south bank, tum to 293.

160
Test your Luck again. If you are Lucky, turn to 219; if
you are Unlucky, turn to 349.

161
‘he skeleton’s empty eye-sackets blaze into chill
life, but it offers no resistance. You take the orb and
swim over to the northern shore. When you clean

162-163

the mud off the orb, you discover the follawing
legend: “lsventy-one is the number of the ruler’s
sway.” You stow the orb safely into yaur pack and
chmb up the cliff. Once at the top you estimate your
position. You think that you have come sa far west
that the dreaded Marsh Vile now lies to the north,
and the foothills to the mountain range of Krill
Garnash to the north-east. You know you should
avoid Marsh Vile if you possibly can, but will you
head north for a while (turn to 357) or north-east
(turn to 374)?

162

You fail to find a handhold, and slide down the
remaining bit of bridge and int) space. You prepare
yourself for death, but land on the trail after only a
few metres. Your helmet (if you still have it) falls off
your head and is lost in the chasm below. Test your
Luck again. If you are Lucky, turn to 259; if you are
Uniucky, turn to 139.

163
You step into thin air. Your adventure ends at the
bottom of a chasm.

164-166

164

Your slaps change hysterical laughter into uncon-
trolled sobbing, which eventually subsides. The old
woman looks up at you again. “Give me something
precious,’ she says slyly, ‘and I'll tell you something
precious.’ You're not convinced that anything she
has to say will not be dangerously misleading. Will
you offer her something (turn to 326), or leave her
and continue on your way {turn to 336)?

165
After a spell of this tiring way of moving along,
more solid ground appears to your right and lett.
Will you turn left (turn to 381) or right (tuum to 263),
or continue jumping from mound to mound straight
ahead {turn to 193)?

166

Itis difficult for you to pick up the trail of the thieves
during the night-time, even with the moon out. But
some progress is made. By morning, you are on the
margins of Pikestaff Plain, heading north, and
the tall grass of the plain makes it easy to track
the thieves: the bent and crushed stems are clearly
visible, Soun the thieves themselves come into
view, heads and shoulders bobbing above the grass.
if you have companions, turn to 14; if you are alone,
turn to 356.

167-169
167

“You will come to three doors,” he says. ’Be sure to
take the wooden one.” Then he guides you back to
Pikestaff Plain and points you in the direction of the
foothills. Turn to 374-

168

This is the only possible solution. Your fire will
make a desolate area, which you can enter and wait
for the bush-fire to burn itself out. But have you
enough time for this area to be consumed and cool
down, before the bush-fire is upon you? Rall one
die. On 2 or 2, turn to 52; on 3 or 4, turn to417;on 50r
6, turn to 114.

169

‘Take a look for yourself,” says the chief, and hands
you the mirror. At first, when you look in it, it is
cloudy; but presently a brief image of startling clar-
ity and potency emerges. You see yourself standing
between bya majestic oaks; your arms are raised
into the air, and each hand is holding an object. But
the image is instantaneous, and you have time only
t see that one of the objects is long, before the
murror returns to its former cloudy state. Still, there
is no doubt that you will remember this if you ever
lind yourselfin such a spot, Add 1 Luck point.

You hand the murror back to the chief. He and the
shaman smile at you knowingly. “There is more that
we have seen,’ says the shaman, ‘but to tell you
would deprive you of free choice, which is what
170-171

determines a hero. There are riddles for the hearing
and sigils for the seeing, and danger at every turn,
The true path is narrow. But now you must continue
your quest elsewhere.” He mutters a spell: the
village begins to dissolve and you feel yoursell
floating. Tum to 382.

170

You have faced death in many forms to get this far,
but Morgana’s defences are a cut above the rest.
tron grilles slam down in front of and behind you,
and seven deadly serpents slither aut of cracks in
the walls. Your adventure is over.

171

You twist and turn your way through the under-
growth, butit does not seriously hinder you. ‘hen,
with no forewarning, lights blaze from several trees.
You have stumbled into the camp of a band of
Spriggans — you recognize them immediately from
your childhood nurse’s descriptions and wamings.
They are a grotesquely ugly branch of the fairy folk,
who have not inherited the sweet disposition of
their cousins. They are cowardly thieves, who pre-
fer to rob old women, but with their ability to bloat
themselves to several times their normal diminutive
172

size, they will make formidable foes even for you.
There are six of them, but if you defeat the first two,
the others will run away. The cowards approach
one ata time-

SKIL! STAMINA
First 5PRIGGAN 6 8
Second SPRIGGAN 3 8
Ifyou win, turn to 106.
172

There is quite a collection of stuff, mosily worthless.
You don’t have time to make a thorough search, in
case the female returns and sees what you've done
to her husband; but you have fime toa grab three of
the following items: a plain brass ear-ring; a Snatta-
cat's tusk, which has been engraved with delicate
interweaving patterns; a leather pouch, which is
tightly closed with a drawstring; 5 Gold Pieces; a
Stone statuctte of some goddess; an empty water
flask. Choose what to take, then, since vou don’t
want to meet the rest of the Doragar family, turn
vantto 141.

173-177

173

You travel deep into the mountains. The slopes are
guite thickly covered with pine trees; uccasionally,
as the days pass, you hear low, ominous rumblings
tom the mountains on either side. One afternoon
you sce a figure ahead of you, black against the
white glare of the snow. If you arealone, turn to 287;
it you have one companion, turn to 210; if you have
two companions, turn to 176.

174
the spear catches you right between the shoulder-
dlades. Your adventure is over.

175
On emerging, you see a number of horsemen lining
the ridge to the south. You decide not tolingerin the
area. Turn to 343.

176

The tribesmen, if they have spotted the distant
figure, seem unconcerned. Perhaps their sharp eyes
can tell what yours cannot — whether the figure is
moving towards you or away from you. Your vaice
wall carry well in the crisp, clear mountain air, and
you decide to call out to the distant figure. Test your
tuck, Ht you are Lucky, tum to 378; if you are
Unlucky, turn to 360.

177
You return in shame to where Heveris waiting with
his village headmen at the edge of the forest. The
178

blue sky, the pennants fluttering in a gentle breeze
and the sound of skylarks high above are strangely
at odds with your sense of failure. Heveris a man of
his word: he does not give you his horn. He escorts
you back to the castle. As you are preparing to leave,
Hever has faod brought to you from the kitchens.
Restore 2 STAMINA points and tum to 384.

178

As you descend into Fallow Dale, you recall what
you know about the place. Several villages are
located there, and the population ts a mixture of
human and other intelligent species. The villages
are bound into a loose federation under a single
overlord, who occupies a fortified casile in the mid-
dle of the Dale. Hever is the present lord of Fallow
Dale, and his proud boastis that the fortifications ot
his castle are purely for external enemies: his vil-
lages live at peace with one another and with him.

Apart from this, you have little reliable knowledge-
the people of Arion never travel far from their
familiar world, and certainly not as far as Fallow
Dale; and few traders have passed from Hever's
land to yours. You can see the castle a few
kilometres away. Your route could take you
through a village (tum to 305), or you could bypass
the village by crassing a large ploughed field (tum to
396).

179-181

179

That night, Morgana appears to you in a dream.
‘Excellent!’ she says. ‘Glad to see you're on your
way. Our little plan is working well. Don’t worry: T
won't kill you - . . yet! But here is a foretaste of my
power.” The vision raises her hands and curses you
(lose 2 LUCK points). You wake up with a start and,
even with your eyes open, you seem to see her,
floating away in the distance, laughing evilly. Turn
t 77.

180
Early the next day youatlast reacha place where the
gorge can be crossed. A landslide in the distant past
shifted the carth so that there is a rough trail down
to the bottom. and you think you can discern a
similar trail back up the other side. The gorge is not
tao deep here either. No doubt because this was
the popular place to cross, a rope bridge has also
been slung across the chasm, to make the crossing
quicker. The rope bridge looks as secure as any such
bridges are, and the trail looks precarious but us-
able. Will you cross the bridge (turn lo 247} or go
down the trail (furn t3117)?

481
Will you investigate the main shaft (turn to 36), the
outhouse whose roof has collapsed (turn to 212), or
the hut which looks fairly intact {turn to 107)?
182-184

182
Fortunately, snow falling from a nearby tree dis-
tracts the creature at the last moment. Its claws
merely graze you for the loss of 1 STAMINA point.
Return to 142 and continue the fight.

183

in your haste, you drop some Provisions out of your
pack. Roll one die: this many lots of Provisions are
lost. The moon sets and you wander in darkness
through the night, no longer certain of your direc-
tion. At dawn, mist rolls in from the Jake and makes
your situation even worse. Lose 1 STAMINA point
for lack of sleep, and tum to 108.

184
You and Hever continue the small talk of the table
for a while, until you are joined by the bard. He isa
young man, branded on the forehead with the
traditional mark of his kind, so that wherever he
may roam in civilized lands, he will be treated asa
sacted guest.

As he tells a few traditional tales, you are struck by
the fact that he is not very good! You glance curious-
ly at Hever, and he whispers the reason to you: ‘This
lad was the apprentice of my former bard, who was
the best in the land. But he was abducted a few
months ago, and has not been heard of since. Still,
this lad is improving: he is learning to weave a song
around any tale you want him to.’

this, of course, is the traditional bardic skill. As his
185-187

guest, Hever tells you, you can ask the bard to sing
something. Jt would be impolite to turn down this
invitation. Will you ask him to sing about the old
story of Pyke and the Firefox (turn to 296), or to
make up a song about your own visit to Fallow Dale
{turn to 232)?

185
How do you think the alchemist survives in these
dangerous lands? As soon as your aggressive Inten-
tions are clear, he blasts you into oblivion. The
buffalo looks on sith little interest.

186
As you turn to leave, you step into a rabbit hole,
sprain your ankle (lose 1 SKILL point) and fall to the
eround, The butt of your sword clatters against a
stone. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 337; if
you are Unlucky, turn to 310.

187
One mound turns out to be the head ofa huge Slime
Sucker, It shrugs you off into the surrounding mre,
where you stick fast, so that itcan devour you at its
leisure, Your adventure is over-

188-190

188

You decide that your best bet is to lasso each succes-
sive tock and hold on to the rope while you step
from rock to slippery rock, just in case you fall in.
Phere are four rocks to pass over. Roll one die four
times. If you ever roll1, you fallin, and though your
rope holds and you haul yourself back up, your
helmet (if you still have it) falls off your head and is
lost. When you reach the south bank, turn t& 293.

189

As you walk through prickly grass and tiny yellow
orchids, you suddenly find yourself on the lip of a
bank, with the surface of the lake a couple of metres
below. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 31. If
you are Unlucky, turn to 340.

1
You put on the Cloak (its powers work only once, so
cross it off your Adventure Sheet), and retreat back
tosvards the cliff, since you cannot squeeze past the
Chimera. But the Chimera merely changes tactics: it
breathes fire at the rope bridge instead of at you.
The bridge is soon in danger of collapsing. Turn to

191-192

You are bowled overin the mash, and knock yourself
unconscious against a rock. Only the agony of the
fire consuming your body rouses you for a brief
instant. Your adventure is over.

192
The Elves make no move to prevent you from
looking in the mirror. But the mirror forms a vortex,
which sucks you in, and you are lost for ever.

193-196

193
The mounds become fewer. Will you go left (turn to
229), half left (turn to 264) or straight on (turn to
187)?

194
They talk between themselves for a while, arguing
whether or not to take you as their prisoner to
Morgana, to gain her favour. They decide to do so.
You are released from the tree, your hands are tied
behind your back and you are taken at spear-point
north towards Krill Garnash. Turn to 173.

195
This will be difficult. You are pitting vour skill at
concealment against that of the wood-wise Elves.
Roll one die. On 1-4, turn to 391; on 5 or 6, turn ta

95.

196

Turn to 223.

197-201

197
It is no good. The Water Snake trips you up and
keeps you under the water until you drown,

198
You make it to the outside of the snowy whirlpool,
just as the Chion’s head, with jaws apart and show-
ing two rows of needle-like teeth, bursts through
the snow. It spots you immediately, and squirms
into the attack. You have no time to get anything
from your pack.

CHION SKILL? STAMINA 13

if vou win, turn to 267.

199
You manage to hang on, and then you haul yourself
up to the edge of the cliff. You lie panting with
exhaustion (lose 1 5TAMINA point), When you have
recovered, you pick your way down the trail, Turn
to 147.

200
The remainder of the journey to Fallow Dale is
uneventful, apart from the occasional skirmish with
a wild beast. Turn to 178.

201
Early the next day, you notice that the cliffs are
getting lower. You contemplate jumping into the
river from this height. but then you notice that the
river is flowing extremely fast, and soon you hear
202-203

the boom of a large waterfall ahead. Before long you
come to the lip of the falls. The river is owing
between ordinary banks now, and the fine spray
from the falls seems to hover in the air, scintillating
with rainbow colours. There is no way actoss the
river at this point. Turn to 293.

202
You don’t have to wait long before a large red ant
passes by. Soon you have seen over a dozen of
them. You recoznize them as Treasure Ants — so
called because they line theirnests with any trinkets
they can carry. They are quite large (you have
already seen four of them dragging a dead
ficldmouse along), and their bites can be pai
These ants are passing you by in both directions, but
the ones travelling south-west are usually carrying
some titbit or other, so obviously their nest is some-
where in that direction. You are tempted to find the
nest, to see if they have hoarded anything valuable,
but Treasure Ants are known io travel many
kilometres, and south-west is out of your way. Will
you head south-west along the trail (turn to 105),
wait where you are fora while, in case an ant passes
by with something valuable (turn to 91), or ignore
them and press on northwards (turn to 149)?

203
You misjudge your stroke, and jab yourself in the
leg. Lose 2 STAMINA points. You decde to push
through the pool by sheer strength. Turn to 104.

204—207

204

When you reach the Dragon's cave, you find that it
does not extend very far. Afterall, what need does
an ice Dragon have for protection against cold? At
the back, it narrows into a slit. You go through the
sit and find yourself on a ledge, which runs along
the mountainside. The ledge is wide enough for you
to pass safely along it, untilitends atthe mouth loa
tunnel. Turn to 256-

205
The farmer laughs out loud. ‘What would | be
wanting with this lump of rubbish?’ he asks, tossing
into 4 hedge (cross it off your Adzenture Sheet),
Return to 396 and choose again,

206

You realize that there is little point in running, and
tha! your only hope is to create a fire-break between
yourself and the bush-fire. [he only means you
have of making such a fire-breakis to start your own
ire, which will burn up the shrubs and leave the
bush-tire nothing to catch on. Will you start a fire to
the south of where you stand, between yourself and
the bush-fire (turn to 102}, or north of where you
stand (hurn to 168)?

- 207
With your back toa tree and the camp-fire in front of
you, you may light the tentacles one at a time.
Before you fight each tentacle, you reach for a
207

flaming brand from the fire. Roll one die. On 1 or 2,
you succeed, in your haste, merely in burning your-
self: lose 1 STAMINA point. On 3 or 4, the brand
you seize sputters and dies before you have 4
chance to use il. On 5 or 6, you succeed in getting
hold of a securely flaming brand, and every time
you win an Attack Round, you inflict 3, rather than
the usual 2 STAMINA points of injury.

SKILI STAMINA
First TENTACLE 6 6
sccond TENTACLE 6 6
Third TENTACLE 6 6
Fourth TENTACLE 6 6
Fifth TENTACLE 6 6

You can escape at any time by turning to 3f1,
though the tentacles will cause you 2 further sta-
mM1INA points of injury as you gather up your belong-
ings and flee. If you stay put, and win the battle.
turn to 346.

‘So, the Juja is still alive, is he?’ she says. ‘Well,
that's good to hear. What fun we used to have when
the world was young! Butknawing how to leave my
domain, and actually being able to do su, are two
different things, aren't they? Do you have the
seeds Tf you do, multiply the number of seeds by
the number of dragons depicted on the container,
and tum to that paragraph. Otherwise, turn to 329.

The mirror forms a vortex, which sucks you in, and
you are lost for ever,

210

The tibesman, if he has spotted the distant figure,
seems unconcerned. Perhaps his sharp eyes can tell
what yours cannot — whether the figure is moving
towards you oraway from you. Your voice will carry
well in the crisp, clear mountain air. You decide ta
call out to the distant figure. Test your Luck. H youare
Lucky, turn to 275; if you are Unlucky, tum ta 360.

211
The Elves pass you by. Later, when you judge that
the coast is clear, you continue north towards
Fallow Dale. Turn to 115.
212-213

212
Not only has the roof collapsed, but, as soon as you
step imside the hut, the floor collapses toa, rotted
away by years of damp and deathwatch beetle. And
creatures worse than beetles occupy the cellar inta
which you have fallen. Rats and gigantic millipedes
scutter and writhe when you Jand with a crash on
the ground. Then they are all aver you, before you
can get to your feet. You brush them off, but will
have to fight to make enough space to reach the
joists and haul yourself back up. Treat them as a

single opponent.
VERMIN SKILE5 STAMINA 6

if you win, you pull yourself out of this hell-hole,
Sut a rat bites your dangling ankle for 1 STAMINA
point of injury. Will you now investigate the main
shaft (furn to 36) or the more solid hut (turn to 107),
or will you leave the site altogether (turn to 343)?

213
As you proceed east, you notice that there are
evenly spaced shafts, smaller than the one youcame
down, drilled through to the ground above. These
2fford light and air, but are out of reach and un-
climbable. You conclude that the mine was once
worked by slaves, who needed to breathe and see,
but also had to be prevented from escaping.

It furns out that this was a copper mine; the vein is
worked out, but you find a nugget of greenish ore,
and keep it. Later, a side-passage opens up to your
214-215

right; a truly hornble smell is issuing from it. Will
you take it (turn to 325) or continue along the main
tunnel {turn to 370}?

+14
Once you are well out of the district of the village,

will you continue north-east (furn to 323), or turn
back on to a northerly route (turn to 336)?

215

As you step oul, a magical causeway solidifies out of
the mist, and you follow it to the home of the Juja-
No person and no legend knows his real name, only
that this wizard retired here when the world became
evil, long ago. His body sits in a shack, surrounded
by old books and alchemical apparatus, but his
mind journeys far and wide.

When you enter his shack, he greets you and gives
you a meal (restore 4 STAMINA points), During the
meal, you tell him of your quest. Timm . - . well,
he replies. “You'd better see VYashti in Maiden’s
Vale. She knows more than I do about this busi-
ness.’ You ask him how io get to Maiden’s Vale.
‘Oh, Idon‘t know how you getinto it,” he says. “You
should know already. But | did find in one of my
books a clue about how to get out, which is just 4s
important, you know." He geis a tome down froma
shelf. ‘Yes, here it is, on page 208: “The land of no
time — oak for in and apple for out.” | hope that will
help you. Is there anything else you’d like me to

216

do? Gain z LucK points for this vital information.
Will you ask him to restore any of your faculties
(turn to 308), or how to get into Morgana’s lair (turn
to 167)?

216
Your efforts only enrage the monster, and it swipes
you with one of its tentacles. Your ssvord flies out of
your grasp, and before you can recover it, you are
drawn into the Kraken's mouth. The aciclic waters
of the lake will dissolve even your bones.

217-219

217
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 133; if you
are Unlucky, turn to 116.

218
‘Wie have seen something of this in the mirror,” says
the chief, when you have finished explaining about
your quest. If your hands are tied, turn to 319;
otherwise turn to 154.

219
You clear the pool and land safely. You carry on for
several more kilometres. If you have nol stopped to
rest and eat Provisions so far dunnmg your under-
graund journey, you must reduce your STAMINA
by 2 points. The monotonous single tunnel even-
tually comes to a fork. Will you take the left branch
(turn to 399) or the right branch (tur te 276)?

EE eee

220-221

220

Some accurate shooting reduces the number of your
Pygmy Orc opponents from six to two, but empties
your guiver (you will be able to recover the arrows
later). You must face the last 6vo with your sword,
but they have been separated from cach other in the
long grass, and you can approach them one at a
time. The first one draws his dagger, snarling,
‘Good! It is you we want, not your paltry helmet!’

SKILL STAMINA
First PYGMY ORC 6 TO
Second PYGMY ORC 5 8

If you win, you recover your helmet, and you may
either begin the trek back to Fallow Dale (turn to
321), or forget about Hever's horn and carry on
north towards Krill Garnash (turn te 20),

221
Almost immediately you begin to come acrass
countless animals, large and small, fleeing north
away from the fire. Test your Luck. Tf you are Lucky,
turn te 7-if you are Unlucky, turn to 191.
222223

222
You decide ta spend the night in the Nandibear’s
cave. You use your flints and tinder to start a fire ont
of sticks and logs which you find in and around the
cave, and make yourself comfortable. If you met the
Doragar family in the mine, turn to 112; otherwise,
turn to 121.

22
‘That'll da nicely,’ she cackles. “Now listen carefully:
seck the Juja. The Juja knows more than! do.” Then
she breaks out again into peals of hysterical laugh-
ter, and you can get nothing more out of her. Will
you now continue north (fur to 336) or north-east
{turn to 323}?

mn

224
The torches on the walls are spaced further apart,
and then cease altogether, as you walk on down the
tunnel. You go back and get a torch to light your _
way, but a strong and unnatural wind blows it out
straight away, and then dies down. Will you con-
tinue down this branch (turn to 49), or retum and
take the other branch {turn to 19}?

225
Just as you reach the bottom, the beam snaps, and
the rope lands on top of you. This means that you
cannot use it to climb back out again. Still, you have
your rope again, and you got down in one piece,
When you look up, you notice that the last steps of
the ladder are missing, and that the shaft is tao wide
and sheer to chimney up- So there is no way oul
226-228

unless you find an exit somewhere down the tun-
nels. There is a dank feel to the air; mosses and
lichens have sprouted on the floor and walls of the
well-made tunnel you are in, and moisture drips
and forms puddles on the ground. The tunnel ex-
tends in both directions. Will you go west (turn to
237) or east (turn to 213)?

226
You sleep as deeply as if you had no cares in the
world. Butin the small hours of the morning, some-
thing disturbs the quict surface of the lake. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, tum to 257; if you are
Unhucky, turn to 280. ;

427
From now on, as you progress towards and into the
mountains, the snow gets deeper and icy winds
moan. Because you have little protection against the
cold, your Provisions will restore only 3 $TAMINA
points, instead of the usual 4, Turn to 128.

225
You succeed in wounding the Snake without also
injuring yourself. The Snake remains coiled around
your legs, but it is now easier for you ta wade
through the water. Turn to 15,

i—- =
ne bs eRe

229-230

229
A large bubble of marsh gas bursts close by. You are
overcome by the poisonous fumes and slump un-
conscious into the surrounding waters, where un-
nameable creatures gobble you up. Your adventure
15 OVET.

230
There is little wood around to make a fire, even
though you've got flinis and tinder. You chew on
some harsh berries and wash the taste out of your
mouth with water from your flask. Will you refill
your flask with water from the lake (turn 10 39), oT
settle down to sleep straight away (turn to 76)?

231-232

231

Will you investigate the main shaft (turn to 36) or, if
you hayen‘talready done sv, the collapsed hut {turn
to 212)? Or will you leave the area altogether (turn ta
343)?

232

the bard stumbles and hesitates a bit, but manages
to concoct a short epic, consisting mainly of entirely
fanciful episodes, about your trip to Fallow Dale
from Arion. The end result is quite pleasing, and
certainly flattering: he keeps going on about the
power of a sceptre and orb when wielded by a true
ruler, until you almost feel that you could complete
the rest of your quest, if only you had a sceptre and
an orb. Add 4 Luck point. Aftenwards, you go to
bed_- Turn to 26.

233-234

233

From your hiding-place you can hear your captors
searching for you, but they fail to find you. Mean-
while, you rub the rope which binds your hands
against the sharp edge of a rock in the gully in
which you have landed. Eventually it breaks. When
you judge that the coast is clear, you emerge from
the gully. Reduce your STAMINA by 3 for lying so
long in the freezing snow- Turn to 250.

234

The eastern sky is just beginning to lighten, and
mist is rolling in off the lake, signalling that dawn is
not too far away. Lose2sTAMINn a points for lack of
sleep. You come to a creek, which flows into the
lake, You cannot see how wide it is, as the mist and
darkness allow you to see only a few metres, and it
is wider than that; butitis not too fast-flowing and
is not too deep either, as faras you can sec. Will you
cross it {turn to 274), or follow it upstream, hoping
to cross where it is narrower (furn to 204)?

235

The river is deeper than you thought, and the
current is so strong that you are sivept off your
feet and downstream. The river is now surrounded
by sheer cliffs, with no beaches or other possible
landing-places. The constriction of the cliffs makes
the water even more rough. If your skKILL is 8 or
over and your STAMINA is 12 or over, you survive;
otherwise you drown. If you survive, the river
eventually widens again. It is calmer and safer, but
the cliffs are just as sheer. You are swept
downstream for kilometre upon kilometre (lose 2
STAMINA points). Hlowever, you are able to haul
yourself over a log, which helps. Day tums into
night, and then day again. Turn to 38.

236

No serious obstacles present themselves fora while:
the streams are either shallow enough to wade or
narrow enough to jump over; the land is covered
with heather or bilberry shrubs, which often make
the going awkward, but by no means impossible.

Before long, a strange sight greets you. A gaily
painted caravan is being drawn by a water buffalo in
a westerly direction, A robust old man is sitting on
the seat of the caravan; the reins hang limply in his
hands, and he doesn’t seem very concerned about
where the caravan goes. The pots and pans sining
up around the caravan clash and clang as it passes
over the uneven terrain. A sign on the side reads:
‘Canches — Alchemist & Trader’.

You call out and Canches stops the caravan; the
buffalo immediately begins to tug at some coarse
grass, Canches offers to sell you some of his home-
made wares. If you have money and want to see
what he’s got, remember this paragraph number
and turn to Be. if you have no money, you can either
pass the time of day and then continue north (tar
to 397), or attack the alchemist to try to steal his
goods (turn to 185).

237-239

237

As you proceed west, you notice that there are
evenly spaced shafts, smaller than the one you came
down, drilled through to the ground above. These
aiford ight and air, but are out of reach and tun-
clmbable. You conclude that the mine was once
worked by slaves, who needed to breathe ancl see,
but also had to be prevented from escaping,

it turns out that this was a copper mine; the vein is
worked out, but you find a nugget of greenish ore,
and keep it. Later, a side-passage opens up to your
left. Will you take it (turn to 283), or continue alony
the main tunnel (tum to 364}?

238
At the mention of Morgana’s name, a shudder
seizes her body and she grows visibly weaker, But
she has time to help you. “You svill find three doors, )
she gasps. “You must take the wooden one.’ But
these are herlastiwords. You bury her and carry on,
either north (tur to 125) or north-east (turn to 3774).

239
You pace back along the tunnel to make a running
jump. Test your Luck If you are Lucky, turn to 160. If
you are Uniucky, turn to 260.

240

240

Hever equips you with a hunting-spear and a pack
of hounds, and himself leads you to the part of
Affen Forest in which the Tiger is known to be
hiding at the moment. On the opposite page is a
map of this part of the forest.

You and your hounds enter the forest at E12; the
Tiger is hidden in its lair at F4. Track both your
progress and the Tiger's in pencil on the map. Each
turn, roll one die for your hounds and then one for
the Tiger. These rolls are not simultaneous: your
hounds may catch up with the Tiger after one of
their rolls and before the Tiger has its roll. The effect
of the rolls is shown in the following table;

HOUNDS TIGER
1 Your hounds have Move one square
caught the scent. Move south

one square closer t the

tiger in any direction
2 Moveonesquareeast Move one square
north
3 Move two squares Move one square
north west

4 Yourhoundsarewell Move one square
on the trail. Move two east
squares closer to the
tiger in any direction,
or any two directions
241

5 Moveonesquarewest The tiger stops to
investigate a tree,
and does not more
this turn

6 Yourhoundslosethe Move one square

scent, and do notmoye north
this turn

You have eight dice rolls to catch up with the Tiger-
If you have nat done so in eight rolls, or if the Tiger
moves off this grid map, then it has escaped (tur to
177). If within eight rolls your hounds reach any of
the eight squares surrounding the one where the
Tiger is currently located, turn to 371. If you ever
land on Co, turn fo 262-

a4
You face a truly formidable foe-
ICE DRAGON SKILL 10 STAMINA 14

If you win, will you search its cave (turn to 204), or
push straight on for Krill Gammash (furn to 298)?

242-243

242
Will you keep close to the lake, where the trees are
thinner and the bank offers a crude path (turn to 79),
or turn slightly west into the depths of the forest
tturn to 271)?

243
You come to a ruined village. Crows and buzzards

rise lazily from crumbling stone walls; the scene is
desolate and more than a little ominous. Some evil
has been done here, and not too long ago, for the
ruins are not yet overgrown with weeds: Will you
walk through the village (turn to 386), or bypass it
(turn to 285)?

mp TT

The spear misses and you make good your escape.
‘The effects of the Cloak wear off after a while (cross
it off your Adventire Sheel). Turn to 173-

245
You set off through the hills on the first stage of your
hazardous journey. liny animals disturb the grass
and sorrel; the few trees have been bent into gro-
tesque shapes by decades of wind. You can put
some sorrel in your pack, if you want.

‘The sun sinks gradually below the forest-shrouded
hills on the far side of the lake as you continue
northwards. Will you camp here by the lakeside
{turn to 230), or carry on through the deepening
dusk (turn to 303)?

246-247

246
You just make it {at a cost of 2 stamina points of
exertion}, but your companion is not so lucky. You
tind his body crushed undera boulder. You recover
your weapons and continue north towards Krill
Gamash. [urn to 250.

247

You have gone about fifty metres across the bridge,
when a Chimera materializes in front of you and
demands to know the password. You don’t know it,
of comrse; in fact, there probably isn’t one, but the
Chimera just wants an excuse for a fight. The
Chimera has a lion’s head, a goat's body and a
serpent’s tail; its weapon is the deadly fire it
Oreathes. [If you have the Cloak of Temporary In-
visibility and wish to use it, turn to 190; otherwise,
fuirn ti) 145-
245-249

No sooner da you mention Galrin’s name than he
appears with his spectral army, and in no time at all
they have razed the Elves’ village to the ground.
Galrin comes up to you. Tdiot! he wheezes hoarse
ly. ‘Why summon us when there was no need” Tle
and his army vanish, and you may not call on them
again in this adventure. Still, the pickings from the
village are rich; apart from the crystal mirror, you
find treasure worth 30 Gold Pieces, and a magical
bow, with a quiver of arrows, which will add 1 to
your SKILL score, even if that takes it over its Inztal
level. Will you look in the mirror (turn to 209), or
stow itaway in your pack and continue on your way
{turn to 115)?

Your question triggers another attack of hysteria-
All you can gather is that ‘She came - . . the she
devil. . . took my husband. . . he was the farmer”
Then you leave her, hoping she will find peace. Will
you head north (turn to 336) or north-east {tum to
323)?

250-251

250
When you restart your joumey towards Krill Gar-
nash, there is no sign of the distant figure who,
without knowing it, secured your freedom. Within
two days the peaks of Knill Garnash, half hidden in
lowering grey cloud, are so close that they seem to
hang over you, like some yast primeval monster.
There are two passes. Will you take the one which
heads towards the west of Krill Garnash (turn to
284), or the one which heads towards the east (tum

to 142)?

251
Peeping between the branches of the bramble which
you are using as cover, you can see Wood Elves
flitting nviselessly from tree-trunk to tree-trunk,
and in this zigzag fashion getting closer to the
spot where you are lying. While Wood Elves are
decidedly not friendly towards human beings, they
252-254

are not usually hostile, unless their heloved woods
have, m their opinion, been interfered with. Will
you Stand up and extend friendly greetings towards
the Elves (furn to 334), or, since you cannot see
any Elves behind you, try to back out of this
confrontation (turn to 195}?

252
You are no match for the six Pygmy Orcs you have
been following. They allow you to catch up, sur-
round you and then their vicious blades flash in the
morming sun. Your adventure is over,

253

Your fire creates 2a desolate area which cools off
enough for you to enter it and remain safe from the
bush-fire, at a cost of only 2 STAMINA points of
burns. Tur to 10.

254

You have stumbled into the encampment of two
Blackheart hunters. Blackhearts are an evil race, a
cross between Ores and Dark Elves. You had
thought them quite extinct, eliminated in the Great
War of your ancestor, Brendan Bloodaxe. But here
are fo of them, presumably from a village not too
far away, looking quite as evil and dangerous as
lesend paints their forebears. They quickly recover
from their surprise at your intrusion, pick up jageed
sumitars and cautiously approach, one to either
side of you.
255-256

SKI1L14. STAMINA
First BLACKHEART 6 10
Second BLACKHEART 7 10

You will have to fight them simultaneously. Choose
ane as an opponent and conduct the fightas normal
against him. But also roll for the Attack Strength of
the other: if itis higher than your Attack Strength,
he wounds you; if it is lower or equal, you have
merely blocked his assault {in other words, you
cannot wound him). If you defeat both Blackhearis,
will you use their camp as your own for the night
(turn to 269), or quickly make your way out of the
area {turn to 367)?

255
Only a few drops of the acid splash into your eyes.
Reduce your sKILt by 2 points for this fight only-

SPIT VIPER

If you sin, will you stay waiting by the ant-trail
{turn to 277), Or carry on north (turn to 149)?

SKILL4 STAMINA 4

2556
This must be the entrance to Morgana’s domain.
Guttering torches line the walls, which stretch away
ina straight line inta the ploom ahead. Yousummon
up all your courage and step into the tunnel. The
torches do little to dispel the freezing cold and even
though you can sce your way, you cannot shake off
a sense of blackness. For here Morgana rules, and
her heart is cold and black. The tunnel ends with a

257-258

choice of three doors, next to one another on the
northern wall of a small cavern. Will you take the
wooden door in the middle (turn to 32}, the stone
door (turn to 119) or the iron door (tum to 290}?

257

Your dreams abruptly change, and you suddenly
wake up, crying, “Kevin! No! — only to find some-
thing more hornible than your worst nightmare. The
five slimy tentacles of a Kraken are reaching out of
the lake towards you. You repulse the nearest one
with a brand snatched from the fire, which gives
you time either to nun (tum to 361) or seize your
sword and face the Kraken (turn to 322).

258
Everything begins to fall into place - the realization
that your mission was a trap; Morgana describing
the plan as if it were not just hers alone; Kevin
treacherously slain. You have been puzzling over all
this for some time. If your suspicions have fallen on
a particular person, you should be able ta work out
which paragraph to tum to. Otherwise, turn to 347.

259-262

259
The trail is narrow, but you manage to stay on it.
You have, however, sustained 2STa MINA points of
cuts and bruises in your fall. You dust yourself off.
and pick your way down the trail. Turn to 117-

260
Your final step, which is intended to launch you
over the pool, lands you squarely on a Gump of
slippery lichen. You fall heavily on your back and
bang your head, and your momentum carries you
into the pool, where a Water Snake completes vour
doom. Your adventure is over.

261

Closer inspection reveals two things: that the throne
of weeds is actually a real throne which has simply
become overgrown with weeds (though the
skeleton is clean); and that the skeleton is holding
an orb in its tight hand and wearmg a Crown on its
head, \Will you try to take the orb (turn to 320) or the
crown (tum to 74}, or will you return to the surface
and swim over to the northern shore (turn to 393)?

262
One of Hever’s hunters dug a trap here last week.
Your hounds instinctively avoid it (as the Tiger has
done), but you blunder in and are impaled on the
sharpened spikes at the bottom. Your adventure
ends here.

263-266

263
You walk off through the mist, which closes behind
your back. You are never seen again, by man ar
monster, on this earth.

264
The mist becomes thicker and more menacing.
Strange lights flicker and fade. You can see nothing
but water ahead, but there are mounds to the right
and left. Will you go right (turn to 229), left (turn to
381) or straight on (furn to 215)?

265
This is the only possible solution. Your fire will
make a desolate area, stretching back towards the
cliff; you can enter this area to wait for the bush-fire
to burn itself out. Butby notdoing thisimmediately,
you have left yourself very little time. Rall one die.
On 1-4, tum to 17; on 5 or 6, tur to 253.

266

You offer to pay him by the sweat of your brow. The
farmer agrees, and puts you to work cleaning out
his pig-sties, which (as he explains) should have
been done years ago. Lose 251 4 mina points for the
work, and 1 LucK point for the ignominy. When
you have finished, you make your way to the castle
gates. Turn to 78.

267-269

267

The pass you have taken veers untilit joins the other
one; Morgana allows only one way to and from her
stronghold. As you begin to climb the slopes of Krill
Gamash itself, you feel certain that the way is
defended. You're not wrong. An Ice Dragon thun-
ders out of its cave and swoops down on you,
blasting ice from its nostrils. If you have a Cloak of
Temporary invisibility and want to use it, turn to 46;
otherwise, turn to 241.

268
There are three of your companions left — but no
Orcs. You recover your helmet, and the four of you
begin the long trek back to Fallow Dale, resting
frequently on the way. Tum to 321.

269

The night passes peacefully, and you wake up at
dawn. Mist, rolling in from the lake, is already
obscuring the surrounding hills, and crows are
approaching. eyetng the corpses of the hunters. In
the morning light, you spot the Blackhearts’ packs,
half hidden under a gorse bush, In them you find a
jength of stout rope and two bearskins. You decide
<0 leave the pelts, since they would weigh you
down, but you take the rope. Then you continue on
your journey. The density of the mist soon makes
you hopelessly lost. Turn to 108.
270-272

270
The shaman finds the ring and goes into 2 trance
over it. When he returns from wherever he’s been,
he describes ta the chief, with astonishing accuracy.
your encounter with the Spriggens. ‘Good,’ de-
clares the chief, as he unties your hands. The
Sprigyans are no friends of the forest.’ Turn to 154.

271
‘The winner is the one who approves of your
mission. He releases you and lets you carry on with

your journey. Turn to 173.

272

You gingerly creep back along the bridge towards
the cliff, but the bridge snaps, and the short bit you
are on swings towards the face of the diff. You
scrabble for a handhold. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 199; if you are Unlucky, turn to 162, If
you are wearing Boots of Agility, they will do vou no
good here, since your arms, not your fect, are doing
the work,

273-275

273
As soon as you turn tail, you give the Spider the
chance to shoot out a mass of sticky web and hold
you fast. Her poisonous fangs sink into your flesh.
Your adventure is over.

274

When you are halfway across, the spirits of the
waters mse up against you. It all happens in an
instant: oné moment you are on your feet, the next
moment you are flailing about underwater in a
confusion of muddy-brown figures, with spray for
hair and river-bed rocks for fists. Koll one die and
reduce your STAMINA by that many points. It is
clear that the creek could kill you if it chose to; but
instead it ejects you back on to its squthem bank,
where you started. You decide to head into the
forest, away from anything remotely resembling
water, even though the forest is still as black as
midnight and untouched by the approaching dawn.
Turn to 171.

275

Your companion turns to quieten yau, but is is too
late. Phe noise starts an avalanche: distant rumbling
soon becomes terrifyingly loud, and tons of snow,
rocks and tree-trunks ate hurtling down the moun-
tainside towards you. You both run frantically for
the opposite slope, to try to gain height. If your
hands are tied, turn to 317; if they are untied, turn to
246.
276-278

276
After a couple of hundred metres, you reach a
recent cave-in. Although it is pretty solid, you can
smell fresh air seeping through the cracks, and
faintly hear birds singing from the other side. You
could try to clear the rock-fall with your hands (tum
to 118) or a pick-axe head, if you have one (turn to
292); or you could despondently retum to the fork
and try the other branch, hoping thal this too leads
towards the outside (turn to 399).

277
You svait until the sun is getting low and red, but no
ant passes carrying anything more valuable than a
rusty nail. Lose 1 Luck point. You decide to end this
pointless exercise, and carry on north. Turn to 1240.

278

Tum to 134.

279-280

279

When you move further into the hut, a shape de-
‘aches itself from the deep shadows of one of the
corners and shuffles towards you. Atthatmomenta
beam of light, which is pouring through a small hole
in the roof, illuminates your helmet, Immediately,
the shape stops its shuffling, and vou can now see
thal it is a human hermit or beggar of some kind,
and he appears to be fascinated by your helmet.

The next instant, the hermit drops to the floor and
grovels at your feet, like an abject servant before his
master Or mistress. “They told me,’ he whimpers,
halfin ecstasy, halfin fear. They told me you would
come.” This is a bit alarming. ‘Who told you?’ you
ask. ‘The voices, the voices,’ is all the reply you get.
The poor man is obviously crazy. Will you leave
before the owners of ‘the voices’ find you there (turn
10 232), or question the hermit further (turn to 92)?

280
You do not wake up until five slimy tentacles wrap
themselves firmly around your body and draw you
into the cavernous mouth of a Kraken. Your adven-
ture is Over.
281-282

281

With death, Kevin's heroic resistance snaps once
and for all, and the evil spirit implanted in his body
is able to take control. [t toojumps to its feet—thatis,
Kevin's feet — and it hurls an impenetrable magic
barrier around itself and you, so that Tiever and his
soldiers cannot approach. Cackling with glee, it
ctacks its fiery nine-tailed whip towards you. You
cannot kill this demon, but if you win the fight, it
will return to the nether regions, leaving Kevin in
peace at last.

HELLFIRE SPIRIT SKILLQ STAMINA 12

If you win, the barrier dissolves. Turn to 132.

You draw your sword and advance, Their snow-
shoes, while making long journeys less tiring, also
make them less nimble in battle. They will fight you
simultaneously, but every time you win an Attack
Round against one, he will be out of the fight for the
next Attack Round, and you can simply conduct a
normal Attack Round against the other, When they
are both attacking you at once, however, you must
283

choose which one of them to conduct a normal
Attack Round against, and also roll for the Attack
Strength of the other: whether or not you win the
Attack Round against your chosen opponent, if the
other’s Attack Strength is higher than yours, he
wounds you, but ifitis lowerorequal, you have not
wounded him, but merely blocked his attack.

SKILI. STAMINA
First TRIBESMAN 8 10
Second TRIBESMAN 7 12

If you win, you can take a pair of snow-shoes, if you
want, and carry on. Turn to 173.

283

The passage does not extend very far, and shows
signs of having been one of the more recent faces of
the mine. You find an old pick-axe: the handle has
ratted away, but the head, though musty, is sound.
You can take it, if you want, before returning to the
main tunnel. Will you continue west (tur te 364), or
return past the main shaft and travel east (turn to
388)?

284~-288

284
The western pass is narrow and choked with snow.
if you are not wearing snow-shoes, you may decide
to retrace your steps and fy the eastern pass (turn to
142); if you remain in the western pass, tum to 123.

285
Will you keep well clear of the village by heading
due east for a while (turn to 55), or just skirt it by
heading north-east (turn to 214)?

286
You let yourself fall, simultancously aiming the butt
of your sword at the Fif’s head. Hecrumples uncon-
scious to the ground. But inevitably the other sharp-
eared Elves hear what is going on, and you are
quickly surrounded and marched away through the
forest. Will you make a break for it (turn to 130}, or
let yourself be taken wherever you are going (turn to

358}?

287
Your voice will carry well in the crisp, clear maun-
tain air. Will you call out to the distant figure (turn to
143}, or carry on trudging through the snow (tum to
341)?

258
The heat soon becomes unbearable. You realize that
you will never break through this wall of fame, and
now it is too Jate to do anything else. Your adven-
ture is over.
289-292

The rungs of the ladder remain secure for quite a
way down. By this time, you can hear dipping
below you, and the dank smell is strong, so you
must be getting close to the bottom. But the in-
creased dampness, you find, has rotted the rungs:
they get more and more wobbly, and then end
altogether. You look down and can see the bottom,
but cannot judge exactly how far it is; and the shaft
is too wide for you to chimney out again, so once
you're down, there will be no exit unless you can
find one in the mine itself. Will vou climb back out
(turn to 175), or let yourself go into space (turn to

54)?

290
As soon as you touch the door, long spikes spring
out of it and the door slams open towards you. Roll
one die. On 1-4, turn to 65; on 5 or 6, furn te 366.

291
The most direct route to Krill Garnash now lies
somewhat to the north-east. Will you head north-
east (Lun to 55), oT continue north (turn to 243)?

292
You manage to clear a few smaller rocks, but then
struggle with a larger one, which is thoroughly
wedged. But by using the pick-axe asa crowbar, you
gel enough leverage to dislodge it — and cause the
whole roof to crash on top of you. Youradventure is
over,

293-294

293

There is a steep path down the cliff from the top of
the waterfall to the large pool which has formed in
the canyon below. The cliffs here are craggier and
less sheer, and you hope that, if you can cross the
pool, you may be able to climb the northern cliff. As
you swim across the deep pool, you see that the
northern cliff ts climbable — but you also see a rather
large Alligator waddle from the northern shore into
the water, where its snout cutsa furrow in the water
towards you. If you have the Cloak of Temporary
Invisibility, you cannot use it here: it would be too
awkward and time-consuming to get it out of your
pack. Will you tread water to meet the Alligator’s
onslaught in as stable a position as possible (turn to
$3), or will you dive underwater in an attempt to get
at the creature's underbelly (turn to 380)?

Dense undergrowth forces you some way from the
creek. The going is very hard, especially after your
night-time exertions, and after a while you stop to
rest. Turn to 398.

295-297

295

Now you confront Morgana herself. She is so con-
fident of victory that she allows herself to gloat over
you. “By all the dark forces,’ she cries, ‘this is
perfect! I've got you just where we wanted,’ Then
she leaps off her throneand at you, Her body is frail,
but her magical powers more than compensate for
lack of strength. You will be able to inflict only 1
STAMIN A point of injury every time you wound her
(or 2 if you use LUCK successfully). The Cloak of
Temporary Invisibility (if you have it} will not pro-
tect vou in the slightest against anyone with magic
powers.

MORGANA SKILL it STAMINA6B

If you win, and Morgana cursed you on Pikestaff
Plain, turn to 4; otherwise, turn to 81.

296
The bard complies with vour request quite skilfully,
but misses out the bit where Pyke battles the
Wyvern of Wailing Island, and has him changing
into a buzzard, notan cagle, atthe end. Afterwards,
you go to bed_ Turn to 26.

297
With arrows whistling about your ears, you sprint,
crouch and zigzap away from the Elves, They donot
seem particularly interested in pursuing you. When
you judge that the cvast is clear, you head north
towards Fallow Dale. Turn to 115.
298-300

298
Some of Morgana’s defences are formed by the
mountain itself. The direct way vou are following to
Krill Garnash leads to a long glacier, which is steep
enourh to make walking —orrather, crawling—up it
very hazardous. Ifyou have a pick-axe head, turn to
395; otherwise, turn to g6.

299
The farmer grumbles a bit, but accepts the money
and lets you cross his land. You make your way to
the castle gates. Tum to 78.

300
The warrior dics. Will you continue north (turn to
125) or turn north-east (turn to 374)?

302= 303

301

On close inspection, the tusk turns out to have
eleven tiny dragons intricately engraved on it; italso
has a lid, which you screw off. Inside you find eight
identical seeds — they look like apple pips to you.
Somebody has gone to a lot of trouble over them, sa
you decide to hang on to them. Return to 122 and
choose again.

302

Roll two dice. If the total is greater than your SKILL
score, turn to 116; if the total is less than or equal te
your SKILt score, turn to 75-

93

Night has well and alc pies: and a gibbous moon
isin the mid-heaven. When you reach the top of one
low mound, you see in the dell not far below you a
camp-fire, burning bright and welcoming. You see
two humanoid shapes by the fire, but cannot quite
make out to which race they belong. Will you go
down towards the fire for a closer look (turn to 89),
or skirt the region and continue your journey (turn
to 186)?
394-395

394
Your perseverance is rewarded. You come acrossan

open area in the grass, where hard mud is pitted
with holes, cach of which is about the size of your
fist and serves as entrance and exit for countless
ants. You dig in the earth with your sword, but
while you do so, ants have the opportunity to climb
all over you and nip you. You can gain treasure
worth up to 10 Gold Pieces, but at a loss of 1
STAMINA point for every 2 Gold Pieces. When you
have finished, turn to 140 to head north again.

305

There are few people out in the street. An old
woman weaying baskets outside her front dooreyes
you curiously, and the blacksmith, a hulking man
with at least a few pints of Troll blood in his veins,
stops working while you pass. Will you go into the
village inn (tum to 99), or are you so badly hurt and
wounded that you ask the blacksmith for the way to
the local healer (hurn to 152)?

306-308

306
The side-passage is not long and ends at a I-
junction. You know that turning left would take you
away from your goal, so you turn right. ‘l'urn to 170.

307

The Kraken’s ghastly head, with its huge beaked
mouth snapping, appears out of the water behind
its five tentacles. Will you move in close, thus
exposing yourself to the tentacles, but hoping foran
opportunity ty finish the horror off with one blow to
its head (turn to 157), or will you slash at the
tentacles themselves (turn to 330)?

308
Whichever of your LUCK, STAMINA OF SKIL1. you
choose is restored to its Initial level. Then he guides
you back to Pikestaff Plain and points you in the
direction of the foothills. Turn to 374.

USS Fite

&

te)
a
'

309-311

399

After a while the wallabruptly comes toanend. You
lose your balance and fall into a room hollowed out
of the rock. There are confused scuffles, and then a
lamp is lit. Perhaps this was once a guard-room for
whatever beings were in charge of the mince, but
now itis occupied by a family of Doragars! Doragars
are an immensely strong race, a cross between Orcs
and Trolls, and were often used for hard physical
labour like mining. It may be that this family is
descended from the very slaves who once worked
the mine. But you have no time to ask this lot about
their ancestry. The male Doragaris attacking, wield-
ing an axe, while the female picks up the two young
ones and runs screaming down the tunnel to the
west

DORAGAR SKILLYg STAMINA IQ

If you win, you search the room, Doragars are
famous for hoarding trinkets. Turn to 172.

310
Your helmet falls off your head and some way down
the slope. You retrieve it, but your momentum
carmes you further down the slope. Turn to 89.

311
You quickly discover why the helmet is so dented.
As soon as you putiton, it presses down on vou like
a ton of stone; you topple over to the ground and
g12=343

bang your head, You manage to prise it off, but
must lose 1 STAMINA point for slight concussion.
Then you continue on your way cast. Turn to 180.

312

A couple of villagers catch you up. They are some-
what the warse for drink (the local medlar wine is
pretty potent). They take up positions, one to either
side of you, and then talk as if you weren't there at
all. ‘A stranger. '*Yes, I don’ t hold with strangers.”
‘Nor me.’ “Let's roll this one.”

You have no wish to offend Hever by seriously
hurting any of his people, but you will have to
defend yourself against these two thugs. You lay
aside your weapons, roll up your sleeves, and use
the noble art of fisticuffs. Roll one dic. If you roll 1 or
2, they have managed to hit you, and you must
reduce your $TA MINA by 1 point; if you roll 3 or 4,
you dodge their blows, but they block yours; if you
roll 5 or 6, you have sucoveded in landing a blow.
Once you have hit them three times (i-e. rolled a 5 or
6 three times), they will run away, and you can
make your sway to the castle gates. Turn to 78.

313
You pick yourself up and look around. Mosses and
lichens have sprouted on the floor and the well-
made walls, and moisture drips and forms puddles.
The tunne! extends in both directions. Will you go
west (tur to 237) or east (turn to 213)?

314-316

344
One of them wants to take you as their prisoner to

Morgana; the other wants to free you. They argue,
and harsh words soon turn to blows, and then a
fight to the death. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 271; it you are Unlucky, turn to 50.

315

You find nothing of interest, except that right in the

middle of the garden of the largest house a black-

shafted spear is stuck into the ground. A bloud-red
‘Mts sewn on to the black flag which flutters from

the end of the spear. This is clearly some kind of
challenge from Morgana. Will you grasp the spear

to pluck it out of the ground (turn to 12}, or leave it

and carry on, either narth through the village (turn

to 56) or north-east away from it (turn to 323)?

316
There is plenty of dry wood around to start a fire
with your flints and tinder, and you svon have a
merry blave gomg- You chew on some nuts and
drink some water from your flask. Will you refill
your flask with water from the lake (turn to 67), or
settle down to sleep straight away {turn to 226)?

317-3719

317
You fail to gain enough height. Sa@venging Snow
Wolves find your corpse later that night

318
With this advantage, you can fight them one at a
time,

SKILL STAMINA
First TRIBESMAN 8 40
Second TRIBESMAN - 32

If you sin, you can take a pair of snow-shoes, if you
want, and carry on. The powers of the Cloak wear
off after a while (cross it off your Adventure Sheet)-
Turn ta173.

319
‘It would indeed be tragic,” continues the chief, ‘if
Morgana were to unleash her Golems upon the
land. Therefore we will aid you, if we can. But first
we require some proof that you are not hostile
towards our forest’ The shaman mimmages
through your pack. lf he can find a garnet ring, tum
to 270; otherwise tum tu 45.

320-322

320
If you still have your helmet, turn to 167; if you have
lost your helmet, turn to 74.

321
When you get back to Fallow Dale and appear
before Heyer with your helmet, he can see that you
are whom you claim to be—the ruler of Arion. At the
back of your mind now is the question of Hever’s
horn and how to ask him about it, but you spend
the ime discussing more pressing questions. How
did the thieves know you were here? How did a
message get through to them, and from whom?
Eventually Hever sugpests that some tales from his
bard might take your mind off your worries, if you
are not too tired. Will you accept (turn to 184) or go
to bed (turn to 26)?

322

The Kreken’s ghastly head, with its huge beaked
mouth snapping, appears oul of the swater behind
the tentacles. But it is obviously afraid of the fire,
and it stays well out of reach: you will have to deal
with its tentacles, rather than going for a killing
stroke to the beast itself, Will you fight the tentacles
with sword alone (turn to 379), or try to snatch
burning branches from the fire to use in combina-
tion with your sword (turn to 207)?

ANA

—s

373324

323
No serious obstacles present themselves for quite a
while; the streams are either shallow enough ta
wade or small enough to jump over; the land is
covered with heather or bilberry shrubs, which
often make the going awkward, but by no means
impossible (and provide some food).

In the mid-afternoon of the second day after leaving
the grass, you come across a strange sight in such
surroundings. A gaily painted caravan is being
drawn by a water buffalo, heading west. A robust
old man is sitting on the seat of the caravan; the
reins hang limply in his hands, and he doesn’t seem
very concerned about where the caravan goes. The
pots and pans strung up around the caravan clash
and clang as it passes over the uneven ground, A
sign on the side reads: ‘Canches — Alchemist &
Trader’.

You call out and Canches stops the caravan; the
buffalo immediately begins to tug al some coarse
grass. Canches offers to sell you some of his home-
made wares. If you have money and want to see
what he’s got, remember this paragraph number
and tum to 80. Ifyou have no money, you can cither
pass the time of day and then continue north-east
(turn to 375), or attack the alchemist to try to steal his
goods (turn to 285).

324
This is doomed to failure. As soon as you start to
push the log out of its secure position, you and itare
325

swept over the falls. ‘he log survives fairly intact,
but you don’t. Your adventure is over-

325

The smell pets sworse, and then you lose your foot-
ing in the accumulated sludge of generations of
bats, whose colony vou have entered. Before you
can get to your feet, they are flapping all around
you, confusing you with their squeaks and scratch-
ing you with tiny teeth and claws. You will have to
hack your way out. Reduce your skiLt by 1 point
for this fight because of your disorientation. Treat
the many bats as a single opponent.

BATS SKILL5

Ifyou win, you rejoin the main tunnel and continue
east. But when you slipped over, you lost one item
or one lot of Provisions from your pack. Choose
what to cross off your Adzenture Sheet, then turn to

370.

STAMINA 12

326-328

326
Will vou give her:
3 Gold Pieces? Turn to 223
A jewelled neck-band? Turn to 110
A gamet ning? Turn to 44
Cholumbara? Turn to 196
327
There is no escaping the Bloodhawk’s piercing paze.
GIANT
BLOODHAWK SKILL F STAMINA 12

The Bloodhawk is not evil, so the Horn of Hever will
have no effect on it. IF you win, turn fo 201.

328
While you delay to investigate the crack, you make
an easy target for a Blackheart hunter who happens
to look down the shaft from above. Purely out of
malice, he fires a black-feathered arrow down the
shaft and mto your back. A somewhat larger
skeleton will join the others.

529-330

329
‘Oh dear,’ says Vashti calmly. ‘That means you're
stuck here with me. Never mind: maybe another
traveller will enter this domain, in another few
centuries.’ Until then, your adventure is over-

33°
In your exposed position, the tentacles can lash at
you two at a time. Thus every time you determine
your Attack Strength for normal combat with the
first tentacle, you must also determine the Attack
Strength of the second tentacle: if its Attack
Strength is higher than yours, it wounds you; if itis
lower or equal, you have merely avoided it (you
cannot wound it}. When you have finished with the
first tentacle, you tum to deal with the second
directly, and the third gets free attacks at you; and

so on, until you have finished with them all . - . if
you get that far!
SKILL STAMINA

First TENTACLE 6 6
second TENTACLE 6 6
Third TENTACLE 6 6
Fourth TENTACLE 6 6

Fifth TENTACLE 6 6

You can at any time escape by turning to 183,
though the tentacles will cause you 2 further
STAMINA points of injury as you gather up your
belongings and flee. If you remain, and win the
battle, burn to &s5.

331-333

331

When you pick up the pouch and loosen the draw-
string, you release the tiny Flame Asp which was
nestling inside. It bites you on the hand. The poison
takes five seconds to paralyse vou, and ten to kill
you.

332

After a while, you think you can see the end of the
fire, but it is too far away for you to reach before the
fire reaches you. You must think again. There is no
point in running in the opposite direction to try to
find the other limit of the fire, so will you run north
away from the fire (turn to 47) or south towards the
fire (turn to 221)?

3

You decide to take a set of the Tiger's claws as a
memento of this epic battle. Then you returm to
where Hever is waiting with his village headmen at
the edge of the forest. The blue sky, the pennants
fluttering in the breeze and the sound of skylarks
high above well match your elation at your victory.
Fever is delighted with your success. ‘You have
proven yourself worthy to carry the Hom of Hever,’
he says. ‘Let us return to the castle to celebrate.’
Add 2 LUCK points.

The celebrations continue well into the next day,
The mead and medlar wine flow freely. You have to
put up with a long procession of local dignitaries,
each of whom wants to hear your story and thank
334-336

you. Sull, you gain 3 STAMINA points. As you
prepare to leave the castle, Hever presents you with
the horn. It looks just like an ordinary ram's horn,
but it came from a Yachar, a Horned Demon, and
hence has power over demonic as well as mortal
evil. You hang it securely around your neck, so that
itis as available to you as your sword, If you sound
this horn, you may reduce any opponent's SKILL by
1, unless the book tells you otherwise. Turn to 384.

334
Six Wood Elves step up to you, with a mixture of
curiosity and caution, and then politely but firmly
lead you away. Will you make a break for it (turn to
130), or let yourselfbe taken wherever you are going
(turn to 28)?

335
Skeletal arms, some with rotten flesh still hanging

from them, emerge from the walls; bony fingers
reach for the hom, which vou stil have hanging
around your neck, while others try to trip you
up. You will have to hack your way through this
hornible gauntlet.

HANDS SKILL? STAMINAS
if you win, turn ta 72.

- 336 * ‘
No serious obstacles present themselves for quite a

while: the streams are cither small enough to jump
or Shallow enough to wade; the land is covered in
336

heather or bilberry shrubs, which often make the
going awkward, but by no means impossible {and
provide some food).

Tn the later afternoon of the second day after leaving
the grass, you come across a strange sight in such
surroundings, A gaily painted caravan is being
drawn by a water buffalo, heading west. A robust
old man is sitting on the seat of the caravan; the
reins hang limply in his hands, and he doesn’t seem
very concerned about where the caravan goes. The
pots and pans strung up around the caravan clash
and clang as it passes over the rough terrain. A sign
on the side reads: “Canches — Alchemist & Trader’.

You call nut and Canches stops the caravan; the
buffalo immediately begins to tug at some coarse
grass. Canches offers to sell you some of his home
made wares. If you have money and want to see
what he's got, remember this paragraph number
and turn to 80. Ifyou have no money, you can either
pass the time of day and then continue north (turn
ta 13), orattack the alchemist to try to steal his goods
(turn to 185).

337-339

337
The campers, whoever they are, do not hear

you, and you carry on through the night. Lose 2
STAMINA points for lack of sleep, Al dawn, mist
rolls in from the fake, and you no longer know
where you are. Turn to 108- .

338

The warmior’s eyes flicker and open, and she looks
up at you blankly. As you prop her up against a
rock, she mutters something about ‘the fuja’, Her
death is close, but you may be able to ask her one
question first. Will you ask her about this Juja (tum
to 353). or if she knows how to get into Morgana’s
lair (turn to 238)?

339
You manage to get enough of a grip on the ice to
slow your rate of descent, Lose 2 STAMINA points.
You decide to explore the Dragon's cave instead of
attempting the glacier again. Turn to 204.
340-341

340

You start back from the lip, but the bank gives way
beneath your feet, and you slide on your back down
into the lake, The noxious water causes you 2
STAMINA points of bums, and ruins al! your re-
maining Provisions (and any sorrel you may have).
You clamber, cursing, back to solid ground and
head in the opposite direction. You soon come
across the trail again. Will you turn left (turn to 263)
or right (turn ta 156)?

341
The figure shortly disappears from sight, and you
see no living creature, human or othemvise, for two
days — though at night the howling of wolves is
often too close for comfort. The peaks of Krill Gar-
nash are now so close that they seem to hang aver
you, like some vast primeval monster. There are
Gvo passes. Will you take the one which heads
towards the svest of Krill Gamash (turn to 284), or
the one which heads towards the east (turn to 142)?

342-343

Before long, Hever himself enters the room, sur-
rounded by guards ready for the slightest suspic-
ious Move from you. He is a huge, black-bearded
man, quick to anger and quick to laughter. You tell
him what has happened and point out that, as ruler
of Arion, you are not used to such treatment. Hever
quietly asks you to describe the missing helmet.
When you have done so, he smiles with relief and
steps forward to embrace you. “You are welcome,
cousin,” he booms. ‘lfor Tynin sent word by eagle of
your coming. Now, how may we help?’ You show
him the rope. Heyer arranges fora search-party (six
im all, including yourself) to go in pursuit of the
thieves. Turn to 166.

343
You set your course by the sun for Fallow Dale. If
you have two or fewer lots of Provisions left, turn to
376. Otherwise, turn to 200.
344-345

Hither of these will beni cold of the northern
mountains from sapping your strength. From now
oh, aS You progress towards and int» the moun-
tains, the snow gets deeper and icy winds moan.
‘Turn to 128-

345
Boggy ground soon turns to pools with no more

than occasional mounds of earth to support you.
There is nothing of interest to be seen. Will you
turn back and then head north-east towards Krill
Garnash (turn to 374)? Or will you jump from
mound to mound, deeper inty the marsh, to the lef
{turn to 187}, right {turn to 229) or straight on (turn
to 165)?

yf

—
*
-

346

You sit down to rest after your exertions. Then to
your amazement a spectral army glides across the
surface of the lake. There are at least forty of them,
and most are dressed in the battered remnants of
armour of bygone days. You jump to your feet in
alarm. You can see through them, but you also have
no doubt that they are substantial enough to make
their presence felt in this earthly realm.

While you are wondering what to do, one of them
steps forward on to the bank. He was once a manin
the prime of life, long-haired and with noble and
Stern features. ‘Fear not,’ his ghostly voice whis-
pers. ‘You have done us great service. With the
death of the Kraken we, its victims, are released
from our bondage to this spectral form. But we
repay our debts. Before we go to our final rest in the
underworld, we will assist vou once in the course of
your quest — but my advice would he not to call us
except in the direst need. You can summon us by
347-348

my name: it is Galrin.’ With that, the leader and his
host of followers vanish. When the book tells you
that you can callonGalrin, tum to100. Fornuow, add
2EUCK points and turn to 385.

347
No sooner has Morgana slumped to the ground

than an unseen enemy stabs you in the back. You
die, with a puzzled expression frozen on your face.
Your adventure is over.

348
With a lucky strike of its paws, the Tiger splinters
your spear as though it were made of straw. Now
you will have to fightit at close quarters, with your
sword. Retum to 371 and continue the fight, but
every Ome the Tiger's claws rake you, it will inflict 4
instead of 2 points ofsTAMINA injury.

349-352

You just clear the pool, but land on a clump of
slippery lichen, and fall over backwards into the
water. A Water Snake coils itself around your neck
and holds you under until you drown.

350
Will you head north, which is the most direct route
to Krill Garnash from where you are (turn to 236), or
slightly north-west (turn to 55)?

You sneak out of the chief's hut, which is easy since
it is set apart from the other huts, and continue
towards Fallow Dale. Turn to 115.

352
fest your Tauck, lf you are Lucky, turn to 373. If you
are Unlucky, turn to 163.

353-354

353

‘Lwas searching for him,’ she says, though the effort
of speaking visibly weakens her. ‘He is close. |
don’t know exactly where; I only know a rhyme:
“Do not wander, do not stray; always take the
middie way.” But these are her last words. You
bury her and carry on, either north (turn to 225) or
north-east (hurn to 374).

354
You are still able to think clearly, so you seize a torch

from a wall-bracket to light your way. This is just as
well, because you soon see that the floor and walls
are lnmed with jagged rocks. The litter of animal
skeletons shows that they are poisoned. 'I'here is no
way through here. Will you try the stone door (tum
to 119) or the wooden daor (tum to 32)?

355
Later, aside- passage opens upon your left. Will you
lake it (turn to 283), or continue along the main
tunnel (turn to 364)?

336
Why, you wonder, have the thieves made il so easy
for you to follow them? The rope, the easy trail— it’s
as if they want you to catch them up. If you hare a
bow and arrows, turn to 220; otherwise, turn to 252.

357-359

357

As you continue north, you soon begin to see, some
way ahead, the pall of vapour which continually
covers Marsh Vile. Among the many streams and
rivulets which crisscross this part of the plain, you
came actoss one which has been reduced to a mere
trickle; the exposed mud is still damp. Will you
follow it upstream to find out what is blocking it
(turn to 25) or continue north (hirn ta 125)?

358
The Elves tie your hands behind your back and keep

a close watch on you as they march you off towards
their village. Turn to 28-

359
Half a kilometre away from the cliff, you pause for
thought. Roll two dice. [f the total is greater than
¥OUr SKILL score, turn to 134; if the total is less than
or equal to your SKILL score, turn £0 365.

—<

360~363

Your shouts have no effect on the distant figure —
but dramatic effects otherwise. The noise starts an
avalanche, and you are soon crushed under tons of
snow, rocks and tree-trunks.

361
In your haste, you drop some Provisions out of your
pack. Roll one die: this many lots of Provisions are
fost. The moon sets and you wander in the pitch-
dark forest, no longer certain of your direction, until
a slight lightening of the gloom and the mist rolling
in from the lake herald dawn. Lose 1 STAMINA
point for lack of sleep. Will you slump down against
a tree to rest (furn to 398), or press on (turn to 171)?

362

As the mist begins to clear, you can see buildings
in the shallow valley below you. You duck down
behind a stone. When you dare to peek around the
stune, you find that the buildings are in fact the
dilapidated remains of a mine of some kind, They
are obviously uninhabited — at any rate, by their
former inhabitants. Will you have a look around
(turn to 181), or skirt the area (turn to 343)?

363
You fall into the Chion’s trap, and it is impossible
ty climb up the sides of crumbling snow. The
Chion makes short work of swallowing you. Your
adventure is over.
364-366

3
Directly undermeath one of the air-shafts, you find a
litter of small skeletons — presumably of animals that
have fallen down — which are partially concealing 2
small fissure, no more than three centimetres wide.
Will ou investigate (tur to 328) or carry on (tum to
57)?

365

You realize that you need to create a fire-break
between yourself and ihe bush-fire, but you have
left yourself little time. The only means you have of
making such a fire-break is to start your own fire,
which will burn up the shnubs and leave the bush-
fire nothing to catch on. Will you start a fire to the
south of where you stand, between yourself and the
bush-fire (turn to 102), or north of where you stand,
between yourself and the cliff (turn to 265)?

366
You leap back in time to avoid the door. Will you go
through if into a dark tunnel (hm to 131), or try the
stone door (turn to 119) or the wooden door (hum to
32)?

367-369

367

A sudden noise from some nearby undergrowth
startles you and you rush away, imagining a whole
host of Blackheart warriors. Turn to 183.

368

You launch yourself into the river. The force of the
current immediately sweeps you downstream, well
out of the way of the beach. The sheer cliffs now
Press in on either side of the river, and the water
becomes even more rough, There are no beaches or
other possible landing-places. However, you man-
age to cling on to your log, as you are swept along
for kilometre upon kilometre, The river eventually
widens again. [tis calmer and safer, but the cliffs are
just as sheer, Day turns into night, and then day
again. Furn to 38.

The passage is not long, and ends at a T-junction.
You know that turning right would take you away
from your goal, so you turn left. Turn to 16.
379-372

Shortly, you reach a spot where the floor has sub-
sided, and a pool of stagnant water has formed,
which is about a metre deep and three metres wide.
Will you try to jump over the pool (turn to 239), or
wade through it (turn to 157)?

372

The massive Sabretoothed ‘Tiger bursts out of
cover, slavering at the mouth, and sets about the
pack of hounds with its huge paws. You must
fight it with your spear. First roil one die: your
hounds manage to injure the beast for this amount
of STAMINA damage before you call them off and
engage it yourself. If they cause it 5 or 6 points of
STAMINA injury, you may also reduce its Sxiit by
I point.

SABRE-TOOTHED
TIGER

lf you have not defeated it after four rounds of
combat, turn to 348. If you win, tum tv 333. If your
STAMINA is getting dangerously low, you may
decide that the Horn of Hever is not worth it, and
break off from the fight (tum to 177):

SKILL V1 STAMINA f2

372-374

372
You step safely from rock to slippery rock, until you
reach the south bank. Turn to 293-

373
You walk on and on, unaware that you have fortu-

nately crossed a narrow span of stone overa chasin.
Much later, the tunnel narrows, and you keep
pressed to the wall to avoid bumping into the sides
all the time. Will you keep to the right-hand wall
{turn to 61) or the left-hand wall (harn to 309)?

374
You travel by easy stages to the foothills of the

northern mountain range. There is quite a bit of
game, SO you use up only 1 lot of Provisions. One
night you camp by a copse. In the morning, will you
walk through the copse {turn to 113} or around it
(turn to 126}?
375-376

373
The following night, your camp-fire attracts some

unwelcome visitors. A couple of Mordidas are pa-
trolling their territory and resent your intrusion.
Mordidas ate scavengers — they are rather like huge
hyenas —and are usually too cowardly to approach
anything which might fight back. But to judge by
the state of these two, they have not hadanything to
eat for quite a while and are desperate. If you have
the Cloak of Temporary Invisibility, it willdo you no
guod here, as the Mordidas’ powerful sense of smell
iS just as effective as their sight. They adopt the
method of attack peculiar to their kind, and each
attacks vou in alternate Attack Rounds,

SKILL STAMINA
First MORDIDA 5 &
Second MORDIDA 4 Ww

The first Mordida is weakened by disease, and has
become rabid. If it wins anv Attack Rounds against
you, you will have to cut the poison out of the
wound it has inflicted: this will cause you 2 further
STAMINA points of injury. But you can do this only
if you survive the battle, of course. If you survive,
turn {> 13.

376
The remainder of the journey to Fallow Dale is
uneventful, but you sven min out of Provisions.
Reduce your stamina score by 6 points for two
days of hard walking with no food or water, If you
survive, turn to 178.
377-379

377
The guards are still inclined to think that anything
you do may be a trick, so they simply knock you
unconscious to keep you quiet. Lose 3 STAMINA
points. When you come to, tum to 342-

378

Your companions tum to quieten you, but it is too
late. The noise starts an avalanche: distant rambling
soon decomes terrifyingly loud, and tons of snow,
racks and tree-trunks are hurtling down the moun-
lainside towards you. Fortunately, you are all close
to the opposite slope, and you are able to run out of
reach of the avalanche, though in the panic you
become separated from your captors. You fallintoa
snow-drift, which hides you from view. Roll one
die: on 1~3, turn to 146; on 4-6, turn to 233-

379
With your back toa tree and the camp-tiire in front of
you, you can fight the tentacles one ata time. They
try to wrap themselves around you and pull you
into the gaping mouth of the Kraken.

SKILL STAMINA
First TENTACLE 6 6
Second TENTACLE 6 6
Third TENTACLE 6 6
Fourth TENTACLE 6 6
Fifth TENTACLE 6 6

You can escape at any time by tuming fo 361,
though the tentacles will cause you 2 further

380

STAMINA points of injury as you gather up your
belongings and flee. If you stay put, and win the
battle, turn to 346.

380

You manage to wound the Alligatar before it too
dives to meet you. The battle is on, sometimes
under water, sometimes on the surface. The Alli-
gator ts not evil, so the Horn of Hever will have no
effect on it, and you must reduce your sKiLt by 1
point for this fight, because the water hampers your
movements,

ALLIGATOR SKILLZ STAMINAS
Lf you win, roll two dice. If the total is 4-10, turn to
393; otherwise turn to 122.

381-383

381
A bolt of the lightning which constantly plays in this
marsh strikes you dead, Your adventure is over-

382

You find yourself among mist-shrouded hills. The
position of the sun, dimly perceived behind the
mist, tells you that you have been transported to the
eastern side of the lake, well away from the Elves’
forest. Will you stay where you are until the mist
clears (lurn to 27), or press on regardless (tum to
138)?

383
This may be a mistake. The tribe to which these men
belong has long been under the male of Morgana.
They pay her tribute, because they fear her; but they
would rather be free. When vou approach them
with your sword still in its sheath, they seize you
roughly and tie you against a fee. They search
through your pack. If they can find a set of Sabre-
toothed Tiger's claws, turn to 155; othemvise, turn to

194.

384-385

As you are taking your leave of Hever, a bruised and
bleeding figure thrusts his way past the guards into
the courtyard and collapses face down at your feet.
You gently turn him over, and have difficulty at first
im recognizing Kevin Truehand, your armourer
from Arion. He is barely alive, He speaks through
cracked lips with 2 great effort, as if resisting the
approach of death or of something worse: “Majesty,
I tried _ . . black magic . . - must not give in...’
Then he chokes and breathes his last. You jump to
your feet. Will vou go over to discuss this matter
with Hever (turn to 93), or stay thinking about it
yourself (forn Ep 281)?

385
You decide not to spend any more fime by the lake
shore, and strike off north and slightly west,
through the dark forest. until you are no longer
cettain how far you have come or where you are. A
slight lightening of the gloom and mist rolling in
from the lake herald dawn. Will you slump down
against a tree to rest (turn to 398), or press on (turn

to171)?
386-387

386

Two animated Skeletons emerge, jerking like pup-
pets, from behind a devastated house. They attack
you simultaneously with their cutlasses, but fortu-
nately they are rather uncoordinated. Choose one to
attack, and use the normal combat rules against it.
The other may wound you, but you may not wound
it: roll for its Attack Strength too, and if itis hisher
than yours, it wounds you; if it is lower or equal,
you have dodged its spasmodic assault-

SKILL STAMINA
larst SKELETON 5 B
Second SKELETON 5 7

If you win, you may take a bejewelled choker which
one of the Skeletons was wearing. Will you then
continue north through the village (turn to §4), or
weave through the village in a north-easterly direc-
tion, in order to get away from it as soon as possible
(turn to 21.4)?

387
If you can guess what you are supposed to do here,
add together the numbers of the items involved and
turn to the paragraph with that number. Otherwise,
the trees shimmer mysteriously, but nothing hap-
pens tomake you stay there. You carry on with your
journey. Turn to 37.

388—391

383
About half a kilometre beyond the main shaft, a
side-passage opens up to your right; a truly horrible
smell is issuing from it. Will you take it (turn to 325)
or continue along the main tunnel (turn to 370)?

3

‘No matter, no matter,’ laughs Hever, ‘if that’s how
you want to sil at the table.” You talk about your
respective cultures during the feast, although at the
back of your mind is the matter of Mever’s horn and
how to ask him about it. When the meal is over
(restore 4 STAMINA points}, Hever invites you to
join him in his Privy Chamber to listen to the castle
bard. The wine you drank at the feast is already
making your limbs feel like lead. Refreshing sleep
seems not just desirable, but necessary. Will you
politely refuse Hever's invitation and ask ta be
shown to your room (turn to 26), or will you go with
him (turn to 184)?

The look on their faces when you vanish is so
comical that you almost vive vourself away by
laughing out loud. But your footprints in the snow
are more of a problem. Will you try to run away
(turn to 94), or simply use your invisibility to fight
them with a clear advantage (turn to 318)?

392
You are almost immediately spolted and sur-

rounded. Turn to 358.

392-393

39+
Since the Ice Hulk has no brain to speak of, it takes

quite a time for the creature to register the pain of
the wound you have inflicted on it. You withdraw
your sword from its side, expecting at least to slaw
the beast down, and are therefore unprepared for it
to continue coming at you, swinging its great paws
like claw-tipped mallets. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 182; if you are Unlucky, turn to 60.

393
You reach the northern shore and dry off. The climb

up the cliffis fairly easy. Once at the top, you pause
io estimate your position. You think that you have
come so far west that the dreaded Marsh Vile now
lies to the north, and the foothills to the mountain
range of Krill Garnash to the north-east. You know
you should avoid Marsh Vile ifyou possibly can, but
will you head north for a while {turn to 357) or
north-east (tum ta 374)?
394

394
As you walk along, you notice that there are many

evenly spaced shafts, drilled through to the ground
above. These afford light and air, but are out
ol reach and just as unclimbable as the one you
fell down. You conclude that the mine was once
worked by slaves, who needed to breathe and see,
but also had to be prevented from escaping.

Tt turns out that this was a copper mine; the vein
is worked out, but you find a nugget of greenish
ore, which vou keep. You soon come to what is
obviously the main shaft, but any hopes of escaping
are quickly dashed when you see thal the
ladder has rotted away, and the entrance is tao wide
to chimney up. You sit down and complain to
yourself for a while, but then determine to find
some other way out. Will you now continue west
(tLirn to 355) or turn east (turn to 388)?

395-397

395
You can use this to seta better grip on the ice. You

make it safely to the end of the glacier, and climb up
to the entrance of a tunnel. Turn to 256.

396

When you reach the far side of the field, you stop to
remove the mud which has stuck to your boots and
is weighing them down. When you look up from
your task, you find the farmer glowering at you. By
his side are fwo snarling Kalagarian Ridgebacks -
half dog, half wolf, highly intelligent killers. Na
doubt you could take all three of them on, but you
don’t want to offend Hever by harming any of his
people, so when the farmer rages at you for tramp-
ing over his newly seeded ficld, you offer to pay for
any damage you may hare caused, Will you offer:

2Gold Pieces? Turn to299
Cholumbara? Turn ta 66
A copper nugget? Turn to 205

If you have none of these, turn to 266.

One evening, just as you are thinking about finding
somewhere to rest for the night, you come across a
large rock, which the wind has hollowed out untilit
is like an arch. Will you spend the night in the
shelter of the arch (hurn to 179) or elsewhere (turn to
77)?
398-400
398

Reduce your STAMINA by 2 points if you have not
eaten during the night. When you resume your
interrupted journey, wisps of mist are still drifting
between the trunks of the tall evergreen trees and
. . . what was that? Was it justa patch of mist al the
edge of your vision? Or was it some living creature?
An arrow thudding into a tree-trunk centimetres
from your head soon answers these questians. Will
you remain motionless (turn to 334), or duck down
into the undergrowth (turn to 251}?

399

As you trudge down this seemingly endless tunnel,
the light fades from the shafts: it is night. Bul
eventually you hear ahead of you the chuckling of a
spring and, to judge by the lack of echo, it is not
enclosed, but outin the open. The tunnel is coming
to an exit! However, you also start to hear the
shuffling of a large creature of some kind. It is
impossible to tell in the darkness how far ahead it
might be. Will you press on stealthily (turn fo 52), ar
risk a sprint for the open air (turn to 147)?

4o0
Victory is yours! The Masks of Mayhem will nat be
released upon the land — at any rate, not in your
lifetime . . -
