FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS

Over 10 million copies sold wor iwi)!

sual

hey
that
net
thie

Are you ready for the most
righting Fantasy adventure ye

You begin this adventure not knowin
you are ur who vou are. All vou knows
you are some kind of creature of if
understanding litth During the coursé
adventure, itmay be possible for you co DEER i
control your bestial nature, to tind ousiion
about yourself, and evento leam your GgaRiAy
But even if you know all this, success igen
means certain, for the traps and cesniae of
Trolltooth Pass are many Are you reali ty

hecome the Creature of Havoc!

ol
; ty
tw

Two dice, a pencil and an eraserare all you
for this adventure, YOU decide which ve
tollow, which dangers to nsk and which i

Hight.

Critertiiaermarvrat fit fan Milles

'¢ a)
|
ea
<i
es
—
>
?
ree
SP
e)
Z
@
ie
=
&
a
ca
au,
poe
<
vn)
O

ISBN O-14-052040

{ Op0e £0
>t 0 8S)

f |

Puffin Books
CREATURE OF HAVOC

Evil is festering in Trolltooth Pass. The necromancer Zharradan Marr is
close to stealing the secrets of Elven magic, which will make him
invincible Nothing could then prevent him and his legions of Chaos
from taking over the whole of Allansia, which is his foul purpose ,

But what does the Creature of Havoc know or care about all this? It isa
creature of instinct, nuled by hunger and rage. It is unable to speak and
the speech of others is incomprehensible, It has a taste for fighting and
for the flesh of other creatures. Moreover, in this unique Fighting
Fantasy adventure, the Creature of Havoc is YOU!

But during the course of the adventure, it may be possible for you to
begin to control your besHal nature; it may be possible for you to find
oul more about yourself, it may even be possibile for you lo learn your
destiny and charge your aimless existence with meaning and purpose
And to do all this, all you have to do is survive

All you need is two dice, a pencil and an eraser, to embark on this
thrilling adventure. Many dangers lie ahead and your success is by no
means certain Powerful adversaries are ranged against you, and it’s up
tv YOU to decide which route to follow, which dangers to risk and
which foes ta fight!

Steve Jackson is the co-founder, with Ian Livingstone, of the Games
Workshop chain, which specializes in fantasy games and war games of
all kinds

Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks

THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP
MOUNTAIN

THE CITADEL OF CHAOS

THE FOREST OF DOOM

STARSHIP TRAVELLER

CITY OF THIEVES

DEATHTRAP DUNGEON

ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING

SCORPION SWAMP

CAVERNS OF THE SNOW WITCH

HOUSE OF HELL

TALISMAN OF DEATH

SPACE ASSASSIN

FREEWAY FIGHTER

TEMPLE GF TERROR

1HE RINCS OF KETHER

SEAS OF BLOOD

APPOINTMENT WITHE EAR

REBEL PLANET

DEMONS OF THE DEEP

Steve Jackson’s SORCERY!

1 The Shamutank Hills

2. Kharé - Cityport of Traps
3. The Seven Serpents

4. The Crown of Kings

SWORD OF THE SAMURAI
TRIAL OF CHAMPIONS
ROBOT COMMANDO
MASKS OF MAYHEM
CREATURE OF HAVOC
BENEATH NIGHTMARE CASTLE
CRYPT OF THE SORCERER
STAR STRIDER
PHANTOMS OF FEAR
MIDNIGHT ROGUE
CHASMS OF MALICE
BAT] LEBLADE WARRIOR
SLAVES OF THE ABYSS
SKY LORD

STEALER OF SOULS
DAGGERS OF DARKNESS
ARMIES OF DEATH
PORTAL OF EVIL

VAULT OF THE VAMPIRE
FANGS OF FURY

FIGHTING FANTASY - The Introductory Role- -playing Game
THE RIDDLING REAVER - Scenarios for the Fighting Fantasy

Role-playing Game

OUT OF THIE PIT- — Fighting Fantasy Monsters

TITAN ~ The Fighting Fantasy World

By STEVE JACKSON

CREATUR

Illustrated by Alan Langford

Colour map by Dave Andrews

PUFFIN BOOKS

To Rob and Anne

PUFFIN BOOKS

Published by the Penguin Group
27 Wrights Lane, London W8 5TZ, England
Viking Penguin [nc., 40 West 23rd Street, New York, New York 10010, USA
Penguin Books Australia Ltd. Ringwood, Victoria, Australia
Penguin Books Canuda Ltd, 2801 John Street, Markham. Ontano, Canada L3R 1B4
Penguin Books (NZ) Ltd. 182-190 Wairau Road, Auckland 10, New Zealund

Penguin Books Lid, Registered Offices: Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England

Firsi published 1986
791086

Copyright © Steve Jackson, 1986
illustranons copynght ©) Alan Langford. 1986
AH rights reserved

Printed and bound in Great Britain by
Cox & Wyman Ltd, Reading
Typesct in Linotron Palatino by
Rowland Phototypesetting Lid
Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk

Except in the United States of America,
this book is sold subject 1 the vondition
that it shall nol, by way of crade or otherwise.
be lent, re-sold. hired out, or otherwise circulated
without the pubhsher's prior consent in any [omm of
binding or cover other than that in which it is
published and without a similar condition
including this condition being imposed
on the subsequent purchaser

CONTENTS

ADVENTURE SHEET
6

HOW TO FIGHT CREATURES OF
TROLLTOOTH PASS
8

TALES OF TROLLTOOTH PASS
14

CREATURE OF HAVOC
35
VENTURE

——_

SHEET

LUCK |

SKILL STAMINA

Initial Initial Initiai |
Skill= Stamina Luck=

ITEMS CARRIED AND
INFORMATION

ENCOUNTER BOXES

Sktil= Skill= Skiff=
Stemtina= Stamina= Stamina=
| Skill= Skill= | Skilt=

Stanttna= Stamina= Stantina=
'
u =v
—
| Skilf= Skil= Skill=
Stamina= Stamina= Stantina=
)

ill= Skill= Skill=
| Slomina= Stamitneg= Stamtina=

HOW TO FIGHT CREATURES
OF TROLLTOOTH PASS

Before embarking on your adventure, you must first
determine your strengths and weaknesses. Use dice
to find out your initial SKILL, STAMINA and LUCK
scores. On pages 6-7 there is an Adventure Sheet
on which you can record the details of an adventure.
You will find on it boxes for recording your SKILL,
STAMINA and LUCK scores.

You are advised either to record your scores on the
Adventure Sheet in pencil, or to make photocopies of
the page to use in future adventures.

Those who are familiar with the Fighting Fantasy
rules should note that there are some new rules in
this book.

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter this
total in the SKIL. box on the Adventure Sheet.

Roll both dice. Add i2 to the number rolled and
enter this total in the sTAMINA box.

There is also a LUCK box. Roll one die, add 6 to this
number and enter this total in the LUcK box.

For reasons that will be explained below, SKILL,
STAMINA and LUCK scores change constantly dur-
ing an adventure. You must keep an accurate record

of these scores and for this reason you are advised
either to write small in the boxes or to keep an eraser
handy, But never rub out your Initial scores.
Although you may be awarded additional sxrit,
STAMINA and LUCK points, these totals may never
exceed your Initial scores, except on very rare
occasions, when you will be instructed on a
particular page.

Your SKILL score reflects your general fighting ex-
pertise; the higher the better. Your sra MINA score
reflects your general constitution, your will to sur-
vive, your determination and overall fitness: the
higher your STAMINA score, the longer you will be
able to survive. Your Lucx score indicates how
naturally lucky a person you are, Luck-and magic —
are facts of life in the fantasy kingdom you are about
to explore.

Battles

You will often come across pages in the book which
instruct you to fight an opponent of some sort. An
option to flee may be given, but if not - or if you
choose to attack anyway — you must resolve the
battle as described below.

First record your opponent's sKILL and STAMINA
scores in the first vacant Encounter Box on your
Adventure Sheet. The scores for each creature are
given in the book each time you have an encounter.
The sequence of combat is then:

. Roll the two dice once for your opponent. Add its
SKILL score. This total is your opponent's Attack
Strength.

. Roll the two dice once for yourself. Add the
number rolled to your current SKIL1 score. This
total is your Attack Strength.

. If your Attack Strength is higher than that of your
opponent, you have wounded it. Proceed to step
4. If your opponent's Attack Strength is higher
than yours, it has wounded you, Proceed to step
5. If both Attack Strength totals are the same, you
have avoided each other’s blows — start the next
Attack Round from step 1 above.

. You have wounded your opponent, so subtract 2
points from its STAMINA score. You may use
your Luck here to do additional damage (see
over).

. Your opponent has wounded you, so subtract 1
point from your own STAMINA score. Again you
may use LUCK at this stage (see over),

. Make the appropriate adjustments to either your
opponent's or your own STAMINA scores (and
your LUCK score if you used LUCK — see over),

. Begin the next Attack Round (repeat steps t-6).
This sequence continues until the STAMINA
score of either you or your opponent has been
reduced to zero (death).

Instant Death

As you learn more about yourself during the adven-
ture, you will realize that you are an extremely
powerful creature, capable of killing most op-
ponents with a single blow. If you roll a double
when rolling for your Attack Strength, then you
have landed such a death-dealing blow. Your
opponent will die instantly, without the need to
resolve the particular Attack Round you are in.

Fighting More Than One Opponent

If you are involved in a fight with more than one
opponent, you must choose at the start of each
Attack Round which of the opponents you will be
directing your own attack towards. Roll the dice for
each of the combatants. Resolve your own attack
against your chosen opponent as normal (if you win
he loses 2 STAMINA points, if he wins you lose 1
STAMINA point). Then you must compare your
own Attack Strength {i.e. the one you have just
rolled) against that of ail the other opponents. Any-
one with a higher Attack Strength than yours will
score a hitagainst you. You cannot score hits against
anyone except the opponent you chose at the start
of the round, even if your Attack Strength is higher
than one or more of the other opponents.

11

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either in
battles or when you come across situations in which
you could either be lucky or unlucky (details of
these are given on the pages themselves), you may

call on your luck to make the outcome more favour-"

able, But beware! Using luck is a risky business and
if you are unlucky, the results could be disastrous.

The procedure for using your luck is as follows: roll
two dice. If the number rolled is equal to or less than
your current LUCK score, you have been Lucky and
the result will go in your favour. If the number
tolled is higher than your current LUCK score, you
have been Unlucky and you will be penalized.

This procedure is known as Testing your Luck. Each
time your Test your Luck, you must subtract 1 point
from your current LUCK score. Thus you will soon
realize that the more you rely on your luck, the more
risky this will become.

Using Luck in Battles

On certain pages of the book you will be told to Test
your Luck and will be told the consequences of your
being Lucky or Unlucky. However, in battles, you
always have the option of using your luck either to
inflict a more serious wound ona creature you have
just wounded, or to minimize the effects of a wound
the creature has just inflicted on you.

If you have just wounded the creature, you may Test
your Luck as described above. If you are Lucky, you

I2

have inflicted a severe wound and may subtract an
extra 2 points from the creature’s STAMINA score.
However, if you are Unlucky, the wound was a
mere graze and you must restore 1 point to the
creature’S STAMINA (i.e. instead of scoring the
normal 2 points of damage, you have now scored
only 1).

If the creature has just wounded you, you may Test
your Luck to try to minimize the wound. If you are
Lucky you have managed to avoid the full damage
of the blow, and need not deduct any sTAMINA
points. If you are Unlucky, you have taken a more
serious blow. Subtract 1 extra STAMINA point.

Remember that you must subtract 1 point from your
own LUCK score each time you Test your Luck.

13

TALES OF TROLLTOOTH PASS

The Creature of Havoc adventure takes place in the
region of Allansia where the dusty Windward Plain
meets Trolltooth Pass. North of the pass, the Forest
of Spiders and the Moonstone Hills hide dark
secrets; this is the region that the necromancer
Zharradan Marr considers his own. To the south,
the town of Salamonis stands as the last vestige of
civilization before the rolling hills become the
mountainous reaches of Balthus Dire’s Craggen
Heights.

Westwards, the featureless Windward Plain leads
the way towards Port Blacksand and the Western
Ocean. The plain is a vital trade-route between
eastern Allansia and both western Allansia and the
Old World. Wares are brought to the west by mer-
chants’ caravans, which are heavily guarded by
hired warriors, known as Strongarms, whose job
is to see that the caravans pass safely across the
Flatlands, those treacherous wastes east of Troll-
tooth Pass.

Once through the pass, the Strongarms leave the
caravans at Chalice or Silverton and pick up another
caravan making the return journey. Some prefer
the peace and quiet of smaller villages like Coven
and Drystone, but not even the most courageous
Strongarm will stay near Dree, home of the
witch-women.

14

Dree — Village of the Witch-Women

A dark village nestling in the fork of two rivers like a
viper in its nest, Dree is a magnet for miscreants and
black-hearted creatures. It came into being origin-
ally as the home of the exiled hag-witch Romeena
Dree, who had been banished from the town of
Salamonis for her hideous magical experiments.
Not content with the more acceptable forms
of witchcraft — curses, foretelling the future,
love-potions and herbal remedies — she turned her
attentions to the essence of life itself.

Romeena Dree developed a fascination for what
became known as marrangha — the transplanting of
limbs and organs from one creature to another by
magical means — and was obsessed by the desire to
create a sort of hybrid super-creature. Her magic
was used on both men and beasts and it left many
mutant mixtures of each species suffering in the
gutters of Salamonis. Her vile witchcraft was
branded as an unholy insult to the sanctity of life;
she was on the verge of displeasing the gods of
Salamonis. Thus she was banished from the town.

She was taken in chains to a place far north of
Salamonis and there released. This place was in the
fork between the Deedlewater and Spider rivers,
and there Romeena Dree made her home . . . and
continued her experiments.

Though exiled from Salamonis, she was not without
her devotees and many of her fellow hag-witches
from Salamonis made the pilgrimage to visit or even

15

join Romeena in Dree, as the growing village be-
came known. And from other areas of Allansia
witch-women joined the growing community,
where they could practise their black arts freely and
learn more of the developing art of marrangha from
Romeena herself

Outsiders who sailed the Deedlewater and
happened across the witch-women’s village were
horrified at the sights they saw. Semi-creatures with
dreadful deformities were left in the streets to suffer
~ indescribable monsters, which by rights should
never have seen life at all, but were now doomed to
scratch a living in the gutters of Dree. This they
did by murdering and feeding off other creatures
whose mutations were such that they could not de-
fend themselves or escape. Hell itself could surely
not boast that its minions were as wretched as
the marrangha-spawned creatures of Dree.

The witch-women revelled in their creations. In
their eyes, such suffering was inevitable and they
considered their creations no more than living
vegetables, unworthy of pity, The creatures were
eaten as food, or kept as pets, or used as subjects
in further marrangha experiments. Later, the
most hideous were sold to visiting merchants and
traders as curiosities and many are to be seen in the
travelling circuses which tour Allansia.

Dree’s notoriety spread and, the greedy eyes of
opportunistic traders turned towards the village.
Trading in witchcraft was a time-consuming busi-

16

ness, since witches tend to be hermit-like creatures
living alone in obscure places. If trade links could be
established with Dree, how convenient it would be
to buy potions, charms, curses and enchanted ob-
jects from a single place! Or so merchants thought -
but setting up trading links was not easy. All visitors
to Dree who were not practising witches were at
first greeted warmly, but when the crafty witches
felt their visitor had relaxed his guard, a simple
potion was administered to enable him to be cap-
tured easily. This was how the witches acquired
fresh subjects for their experiments!

The first trader to venture into Dree and survive was
Ganga of Mirewater. His enterprise was to be
admired and he made handsome profits from his
trading. He was the first to realize that the only way
to trade successfully was to enter Dree with goods
the witches valued, but could not get elsewhere. He
scoffed at his forerunners, who took in exotic fruits,
jewels, fine silks and spices. Each one had finished
up with a Clawbeast’s arms, a Lizard Man’s face ora
Mungie’s brain —if he was allowed to live at all.

Ganga took in not spices, but herbs — Sculliweed,
Medusa Grass, Curseleaf, Purity Plant and the like.
He took in dried Goblin livers, Manticore stings, Elf
eyes and pulped Flesh Grub juice. The witches
became willing partners in his trading activities and
it was many years before other traders appeared
with similar items of witchcraft and deprived him of
his profitable monopoly. But by then Ganga had
already made his fortune.

17

The Women of Dree

The witch-women formed an insular community.
They very rarely leave the village of Dree and usual-
ly then only in spiritual form. However, Romeena’s
younger sisters delighted in appearing to the world
outside. These three, known as the Women of Dree,
have become infamous around Trolltooth Pass for
appearing to travellers and Strongarms, to warn
them of something or send them on missions. Their
unexpected appearance is terrifying and may lead
an unwary traveller to distrust them. Certainly they
are known to have sent many an adventurer on a
pointless mission merely in jest. But they do seem to
have some sort of maternal instinct towards man-
kind and they are probably feared more than they
ought to be. There is no evidence of their actually
causing harm to those whom they have chosen to
meet, unlike their neighbours in Dree.

The rest of the world would be happy to leave Dree
alone, so long as the women kept to themselves. But
one or two witches have been known to leave Dree
and settle in the lands of men. Usually they estab-
lish themselves in harmless occupations, as herbal-
ists (like Vitriana in the Forest of Yore), fortune-
tellers (like Rosina near Coven) or cooks (like the
sisters of Sheena in Balthus Dire’s citadel). But oc-
casionally one of the witch-women will leave Dree in
search of mischief. This was the origin of the ill repute
of the village. And more recently, with the strength-
ening of Zharradan Marr’s power, Dree has earned
the abject hatred of the peoples of Trolltooth Pass.

18

———— ee

Zharradan Marr the Necromancer

It was Romeena’s sisters who secretly raised the
infant Zharradan. No one knows who fathered the
child, but the most likely candidate is one of the
numerous Hell Demons conjured up by the witch-
women during their black masses. Some, however,
prefer to believe that the necromancer is merely a
product of another of the marrangha experiments.

Being the only man-child in a village of witch-
women, the sisters removed him from the village
and raised him somewhere in the Moonstone Hills.
When he was old enough, Zharradan was sent east
into the Flatlands to be educated. He had already
shown skill in simple sorcery, and the witches
wished him to study the magic arts under a teacher
of great repute. This man was Volgera Darkstorm,
and the young Zharradan was accepted as his pupil
along with two others, Balthus Dire and Zagor.

The three of them studied hard and perfected the
black arts with a skill which Darkstorm had never
seen in any of his previous pupils. The three became
both friends and rivals, each respecting the others’
skills, but each striving to prove that his were the
greatest.

It was during his studies that Zharradan changed
his name. Zharradan Dree, as he was called, was a
name that embarrassed him. Dree was the village of
witches, and the name was a constant reminder of
their primitive magic with its simple herbalism and
curses, The only interest Zharradan had in his home

19

was the witches’ fascination with marrangha, a
subject that obsessed him.

He changed his name with a single spell which he
had learned especially from an ancient black-magic
tome. One midsummer night he locked himself
away from sunset to sunrise to complete the ritual.
When he emerged, Zharradan Dree was a name
which had been erased from the minds of everyone
who had ever heard of it. Instead, from that time
onwards, all knew of the young man as Zharradan
Marr.

Marr and his co-pupils learned at a rate which
astonished the ageing Darkstorm, who soon be-
came fearful of their powers. When they sensed
their mentor’s weakness, the three eventually
turned their allegiance from him towards them-
selves and they revelled in the power that their new
skills brought. In their own minds they became
powerful demigods, scornful of the pathetic world
around them, When Volgera Darkstorm realized
how dangerous his pupils were becoming, he tried
to stop them. The result was a short, bloody battle of
magic between them which ended as the ‘Demonic
Three’ (as they called themselves collectively) cut
down their teacher with a carefully disguised Rain
of Knives spell.

After looting the old wizard’s library, the young
sorcerers fled Darkstorm’s home and headed east
towards Trolltooth Pass; from there they sought
refuge in Darkwood Forest, where they eventually
split up to continue on their own separate ways.

20

Coven

Zharradan Marr disguised himself as a prospector
and headed south towards the village of Coven, a
half day’s journey from his home in Dree. Though
his disguise was merely a sham to enable him to
build an underground stronghold for his future
operations, he was astonished to find gold deposits
in the ground. He immediately realized that with
gold he could recruit an army, and soon his Yellow-
stone Mines were making him a powerful — and
wealthy —man. His real ambition, however, was not
to become merely wealthy but to rule over his own
empire and eventually over the whole of Allansia.

But this he could not do alone. He had already
recruited Vallaska Roue, a well-rounded human
with a fiery temper, to supervise his mines. Roue
was a scruffy character, but he had a will of iron and
shared Marr’s thirst for power. His loyalty to his
master persuaded Marr to share his secret ambitions
with Roue and between the two of them they laid
plans of conquest. Vallaska Roue was dispatched to
find suitable officers for Marr’s army. Meanwhile,
Marr himself was deep in thought: he had recently
heard a story which was occupying his mind.

Hannicus, a wizard of neutral alignment, had
arrived in Coven to gather supplies to take back to
his home in Knot Oak Wood. During his visit, he
had bumped into Zharradan Marr. After some
hours of talk, Marr offered Hannicus a position
within his underground complex, looking after the

a1

area in which he held his office, outside the mines.
Hannicus gratefully accepted. Marr realized that the
wizard knew much about the surrounding regions
and he pressed Hannicus for more and more of his
knowledge. Among other tales, Hannicus told
Zharradan the legend of the Vapours of Stittle
Woad.

The Rainbow Ponds

Hidden deep within the dark depths of the Forest of
Spiders, sheltered from prying eyes by tall Speartip
trees, is an enchanted glade, Though outsiders have
never seen this glade (thus no story can ever fully be
believed), it is said to contain a number of beautiful
rock-pools. As if designed by the gods themselves,
each pool is decorated with brightly coloured
flowers which bloom throughout the seasons. Tall
orange lilies, scented with sweet perfumes, rise
from the waters. Each pool is fringed with bouquets
of colourful peacock flowers. And shining’ silver-
bells are scattered around them, tinkling faintly as
the wind disturbs their delicate silver flowers. The
pools are wondrous to behold in their full splendour
and are known as the Rainbow Ponds.

But the Rainbow Ponds are so called not because of
their adornment by the most beautiful flowers in the
whole of Allansia, but rather because of the waters
contained within the pools themselves. For each of
the Rainbow Ponds is a different colour. This
extraordinary natural feature is said by some simply
to be a matter of crystal deposits in the rocks

22

FA

beneath the pools. But this may not be true. The
colours are so distinctively different that this
phenomenon may well have been created by magic,
Elvins would delight in conjuring up these gardens
of colour, but Elvins are not to be found in the area.
Most likely this is the magic of the Elves.

Needless to say, speculation abounds about the
mysterious properties of the Rainbow Ponds. The
turquoise pond, it is said, brings the gift of beauty.
Bathing in the waters of the amber pool before
attempting a new skill will! ensure excellence no
matter whether this skill be a mental or a physical
one. And the ruby pool bestows charismatic
powers: no One may meet such a bather without
experiencing immediate feelings of affection and
fnendship. Perhaps some or perhaps none of these
stories are true. No one can be found who has ever
set eyes on the Rainbow Ponds. This in itself may be
due to their enchanted nature. The pools are an
oasis in the midst of a jungle of Chaos; a nirvana
which, once found, persuades any visitor to remain,
tor ever in awe of the beauty of the Rainbow Ponds,

Stittle Woad

The most recent stories of the Rainbow Ponds have
caused great excitement among adventurers and
explorers. For rumour has it that the ponds form
part of the domain of the white-haired Wood Elves
of Stittle Woad.

<3
The Elven village of Stittle Woad, or Eren Durdinath
in the Elvish tongue, is a mystery to outsiders.
Protected by Elven magic, no one may discover the
village without an invitation from the Elves them-
selves. And the Elves will admit only those who
swear to preserve the secret of its whereabouts.

But one thing is for sure. Eren Durdinath is to be
found deep within the Forest of Spiders, and is most
probably close to the spectacular beauty of the Rain-
bow Ponds. Occasionally one or two of the more
adventurous young Elves can be found outside the
forest. Curious about the world beyond their tree-
top kingdom, they will roam abroad, sometimes
coming into contact with other races and — very
occasionally — entering the cities of men.

One such Elf, known as Leeha Falsehope, ventured
as far as the town of Chalice, where he succumbed
to the temptations that exist in such places. Stones
spread of this mysterious white-haired creature
whose manner was so delightful that the young
women of Chalice would follow him wherever he
went, tittering and offering their favours. The
rowdy menfolk knew him as a regular in the town’s
drinking-establishments. They watched in amaze-
ment as he entered —- and won — every drinking-
contest in every inn. At a street market he once
acquired a well-made mandolin, and within a short
time he was a master of the instrument, delighting
every audience with his amusing songs.

As his status rose to that of a celebrity within
Chalice, folk naturally inquired about his past. At

24

”

first he managed to remain true to his vow of
silence. But this only caused rumours to circulate,
not all of which were complimentary to Falsehope.
Eventually he was forced to reveal glimpses of his
real past. His stories so enthralled his listeners —and
each ‘glimpse’ spread like wildfire as news around
the town — that he was encouraged to tell more and
mare. Many of his stories he set to music and, even
today, his songs are known and sung by all the
minstrels of western Allansia. But finally, one night
atter far too much ale and maybe a little smoking-
weed, Leeha Falsehope revealed more than he
should have done.

In his drunken conversation with a young serving-
wench, he not only revealed that Eren Durdinath
existed and could be found deep in the Forest of
Spiders, but his loose tongue told the story of the
Vapours whose secret had hitherto been known
only to his fellow Elves. After he had finished telling
the story to the wench — and the large crowd of
eavesdroppers who had gathered around him -
Falsehope realized his folly. Desperately he tried to
cover up his words, but this merely prompted more
and more questions from the crowd. The question
most asked was, ‘And what was the name of this
village of yours?’, for men find Elven names difficult
‘0 pronounce. Falsehope searched quickly for a
name that would throw them off the track and from
somewhere deep in his memory the name Stittle
Woad appeared (Stittle Woad is in fact a particular
tvpe of dye used by Elves to colour their clothes).

=

The young Elf was devastated when the effects of
the ale wore off and he realized what he had done.
The secrets of generations of Wood Elves had been
revealed to all and sundry in a common inn. He left
the town of Chalice and returned to his home in the
Forest of Spiders, where he lived the rest of his days
in disgrace. Until the day he died he and his family
were social outcasts in Eren Durdinath. Even today,
the family of Erulia Falsehope, Leeha’s great-
grandson, must bear the shame, which cannot be
forgotten, of revealing the existence of what became
known as the Vapours of Stittle Woad.

The Vapours of Stittle Woad

High in the tree-tops of the forest, the Elves are
protected from harm. This is partly due to their
magical abilities and their keen eyesight, which is
able to spot a likely intruder well in advance of their
arrival. But partly this is a protection bestowed on
them as a special favour by their gods. The Elves of
Stittle Woad believe themselves to be a chosen race,
a belief which has a ring of truth to it.

After their creation, the gods were astonished at the
natural grace and beauty of the white-haired Elves
they had brought to life. The early priests of Stittle
Woad were offered a ‘bargain’ by their creators. The
gods promised to watch over the Elves and provide
a good deal more protection than they afforded their
other creations. In return, each generation of Elves
undertook to choose an Elf maiden to be groomed as
eventual queen to rule over Eren Durdinath. Each

26

future queen must be the most perfect child in the
village, a maiden of stunning beauty, charming wit
and faultless grace. And on her eighteenth birth-
day, she had to undergo a celebratory ritual in
which she would eventually commune with the
sods. This communion represented the greatest
nonour which could be bestowed on each genera-
son, and the longer this communion lasted, the
more pleased the gods were. During the com-
munion, great powers of wisdom and leadership
were bestowed on the princess. Afterwards, she
would be recognized as queen of Eren Durdinath.

‘Vithin four seasons of her accession to the throne,
she queen would always give birth. Such a birth was
a religious affair, during which the queen was
attended only by her priests. When the queen left
ner priests after the birth, she left alone. Only the
priests and a handful of trusted villagers knew what
actually happened at the birth. But all knew the
result.

“o normal child was born to the queen. Instead the
<ods gifted the queen with a benevolent spirit — a
Vapour — with a special power. Whichever god had
>een present at the Elf princess’s communion gave
ner Vapour his special power, which was to be used
wisely by her as queen. The Vapour’s birth ritual
was unknown to all but the queen herself and her
priests. But after birth the Vapour, safely stored ina
slass flask, remained with the priests. The queen is
able to call on her Vapour only once during her reign
and even then only on one night of the year, known

27
as the celestial equinox, when her god’s constel-
lation takes a certain position in relation to the other
heavenly bodies.

Thugruff and Darramouss

This was the tale that Zharradan Marr heard from
the wizard Hannicus. He pressed for more infor-
mation and was told that the present Elf queen
Ethilesse was reputed to have given birth to three
Vapours!

Ethilesse was an exceptionally beautiful maiden, so
during her divine communion she had been visited
by three of the Elven gods: Euthillial, the god of
languages; Ititia, god of reason; and Alliarien, the
god of Elf magic. It was this last name that seized
Zharradan’s attention. For, as powerful as his magic
was, that of the Elves was equally powerful. If he
were to acquire the knowledge of Elven magic as
well, he would be invincible! Zharradan’s sharp
mind was well aware of the possibilities and he
thought deeply on the wizard’s words.

But the ways of Elves are secretive and years passed
before Zharradan Marr was able to make plans
for finding the hidden village of Stittle Woad.
His mines prospered and his power-base grew.
Vallaska Roue had returned with new recruits for
his forces. In a seedy inn in Zengis he had come
across a burly Half-Troll named Thugruff. What
started as a drunken braw!) became a firm
friendship, and Thugruff agreed to return with
Vallaska Roue and join in service of Zharradan

-”

Marr. The necromancer took an instant liking to
Thugruff, not least for his coarse sense of humour
and his healthy streak of cruelty. He sent Thugruff
into Knot Oak Wood to rebuild Hannicus’s home as
a hidden training ground, known as the ‘Testing
Grounds’, for his troops.

Hannicus had little say in the matter. Marr was
ov now tring of the wizard’s ineptitude. In fact this
was not all. Hannicus’s control of security had been
ax and, unknown to Zharradan, the odd party of
Strongarms had succeeded in breaking into his
dungeons and looting Marr’s riches.

Though Marr had to wait two years for his arrival,
Hannicus’s replacement was far more suitable for
the task. Vallaska Roue had retumed from Port
3lacksand with a sly grin on his face. He told of
an encounter with a creature with exceptional
qualities. Marr listened intently as he heard of
Darramouss, a Half-Elf and one of the undead.
According to Roue, he was a ruthless creature, who
«as totally without remorse and who took pride in
torture and torment. As an officer in the army, he
was known as one who would always welcome the
order to kill the prisoners. When this order was
ziven he would first torture them for his private
Pleasure, then kill them. Marr liked the sound of
this creature and liked him even more when the tall
=gure walked in to introduce himself

Darramouss was immediately given the job of mas-
ter of the Yellowstone Mines, a position he excelled

28 | 29
at. His first act was to end the system of paying the
miners for their labours. From that day on they were
his prisoners, and guards with bullwhips made sure
that the miners were putting in their best efforts.
When many of the miners died, he had Thugruff
scour the countryside with his army to bring in more
slaves. So successful was he that Zharradan Marr
soon put him in charge of his whole underground
operation, after making sure that the old fool
Hannicus would offer no resistance.

Daga Weaseltongue — The Innocent Traitor

Thugruff’s army grew and prospered, and the area
of his Testing Grounds became a place of fear where
forest creatures dared not venture. Perhaps it
was inevitable, however, that the curiosity of the
Elves would eventually precipitate a meeting and
this dubious honour befell a young Elf, Daga
Weaseltongue, cousin of Erulia Falsehope. A couple
of Marr’s legionnaires were strolling through the
woods when they came across Weaseltongue, train-
ing his serpent-headed Ophidiotaur. A friendship
was struck and regular meetings followed. When
Thugruff heard of this encounter, he sent word to
Marr, who journeyed immediately to the Testing
Grounds. Disguised as a Rhino-Man, he likewise
befriended the ELf, and cultivated the friendship.

When he felt he had the white-haired Elf’s trust,
Marr skilfully manipulated Weaseltongue (under a
Control] Creature spell) into stealing the Vapours
from his own royal pnests. The Vapours were

390

stored in his dungeons until he could research their
secrets. Of course, nothing could be learned about
the Vapours, as nothing was known of them outside
Stittle Woad. Thus Zharradan Marr resolved to
locate the Elven village.

The Galleykeep

Marr knew that the village would never be found
simply by using his legionnaires to search the Forest
of Spiders. Elf magic would ensure that it remained
invisible to outsiders. However, reports were
reaching him of another possibility. From the east, a
great ship had been sighted. Its pure white sails
billowed deeply to catch the winds. Its strong
wooden hull would be almost impossible to hole.
And its size was formidable; it would easily hold a
thousand troops. Ail who had set eyes on the ship
believed it to be of divine origin. For it travelled not
through the water, but through the air! Folk referred
to it as the Galleykeep, but none knew from where it
came.

This seeded an idea in Zharradan Marr’s mind. He
must capture this ship! Not only would it be a
symbolic throne, worthy ofa ruler of his stature, but
it may even help him to find Stittle Woad, Perhaps
he would never find the Elven village from the
ground, but it may well be unprotected from the air.
Quickly he recalled Vallaska Roue and the two of
them set off for the Testing Grounds to discuss the
plans to capture the Galleykeep with Thugruff.

31

|
The success of their plan was a tribute to their
military skills. The Galleykeep feil after a short but
bloody ambush in the sky by Marr’s trained Tooki
troops, and he was delighted with his new vessel.
Within days he had set up his headquarters in the
ship.

So this is now his home, and he has begun his
search over the Forest of Spiders for the village of
Stittle Woad. Those in the know are terrified at the
thought of his success, Should he find Stittle Woad,
and the secret of the Vapours, then his mastery of
sorcery will be invincible. It is because of this fear
that interested parties throughout western Allansia
have made plans to prevent him succeeding in his
quest. Parties of brave adventurers from Chalice,
Silverton and Stonebridge have been sent on
missions to capture the Vapours and return them
to the Elves. But, since no one has ever seen the
Vapours, none of the parties know what they are
looking for! In Mirewater, Calla Bey is recruiting an
army of Birdmen to besiege the Galleykeep (but with
little success, as the Birdmen fear the ship). From
Salamonis, Elves are being persuaded to head north
for the Forest of Spiders in order that word may
reach Stittle Woad in time. But the forest Elves are
suspicious even of their own kind and this
expedition may never succeed.

Perhaps it is destiny that Zharradan Marr should
rule these regions of Allansia. Only time will
tell...

* + *

32

this is the background to Creature of Havoc. Much of
what you have read will be of little help to you and
some of the information may even lead you astray.
As you will find when you start your adventure,
you have only the faintest awareness of your sur-
roundings and your actions will be ruled by in-
stincts — the instincts of the creature you are, But
stadually you will develop more control over your
destiny. As the adventure progresses you will be
asking yourself the questions that all must ask in
ite: Who am I? Where do | come from? Why an: I here?

The answers you find to these questions will
depend on which paths you chose as the Creature of
Havoc.

53

-
:
1
The pain is unbearable! Summoning up all your
energy, you open your eyes — first one, then the
other. They narrow to slits as they adjust them-
selves to the strain of trying to see once more, then
relax as they make out familiar shapes in the dim
light: a dirt floor, rocky walls ... Then the pain
takes over. Your head rocks, Your eyes submit and
close tightly in an agonized grimace. Instinctively
you raise your hands to cup your face, and a low
moan mingles with the rasping sound as your rough
fingers rub the scaly skin above your eyes.

After some time the pain begins to ease. You open
your ¢yes once more and peer out from between
your gnarled fingers. You seem to be at the dead
end of a passageway. Your surroundings are barely
visible, but a dull glow is coming from the northern
extent of the passageway, which stretches before
vou. A sound is also coming from this direction — of
irregular breathing. Something alive is up there!
You heave your great bulky body to its feet. Along
your back, the spines bristle. Swinging your heavy
head slowly from side to side, your progress is
decided: northwards is the only option open to you.
Muscles strain and succeed in raising a lumbering
foot, which thuds loudly down on the ground in
front of you. You repeat the action, first with one
foot, then the other. After four steps the motion has
become automatic. You are moving more quickly
and more quietly up the passage. When you reach
the end, your eyes are drawn to a huddled shape
lying on the ground in front of you.

1

The small figure lies on its side, facing away from
you. It is shrouded in a dirty brown cape tied
around its neck and it lies in a puddle of thick red
liquid. Its body rises and falls irregularly with each
breath. Some unidentified feeling swells within
you. Is it anger? Hate? Fear? Curiosity? Hunger? Or
even sympathy? You bend down towards the little
creature, uttering a meaningless grunt as you do so.

The sound rouses the figure, which rolls slowly over
to face you. The creature’s dirty face is light-
skinned, though barely visible under the thick hair
which shades its closed eyes and almost totally
obscures its mouth. From its chin the hair rolls
abundantly down its chest in a grey, unruly mass.
Underneath the body, and now exposed by the
creature’s movement, is a sharp, shiny shaft and
this catches your attention.

As you stand there staring, the creature’s eyes flick
open! They focus on your bulky shape and a look of
terror streaks across the creature’s face. In spite of
its pain, it fumbles for and grasps the shiny shaft,
holding its pointed end out towards you and baring
its teeth

The wounded Dwarf you have found is evidently in
need of help. Will you:

Show him you mean no harm? Turn to 93
Try to talk to him? Turn to 364
Bring your foot down heavily on his

neck? Turn to 185

2-3

2
You sit down between the three Hobbits, licking
your lips as you remember the tender taste of their
flesh. Grabbing the nearest one, you sink your teeth
ravenously into its meaty rump and let out a soft,
low grow] of contentment. For a short while you
feast messily on the hapless creatures. Each Hobbit
was carrying a small pouch of those flat, round,
shiny pieces of metal and you may take these with
you if you wish. They are, in fact, Gold Pieces and if
you decided to take them, you are now carrying 12
with you. You may restore your STAMINA to its
Initial level for the tasty meal and may add a Luck
point for your victory.

You must now leave the chamber. Do you wish to
continue east along a passage opposite the one you
entered by? If so, turn to 153. If you wish to retrace
your steps to the junction and take the northerly
passageway, turn to 311.

He eyes you suspiciously. ‘Is that so? Well, no doubt
he gave you the gesture too. Come on, then. Let’s
have it!’ What will your gesture be?

The sign of a cross? Turn to 387
The sign of a circle? Turn to 22
You make no gesture? Turn to 437
4-5

4
You summon up your strength and launch into

battle, frantically trying to slash at the vines with
your claws. But the tunnel is thick and the vines are
difficult to cut (this is reflected in their high sKrLL
score). Resolve your battle with the tunnel of
Gluevines:

GLUEVINES

If you escape from the tangled mass of vegetation,
turn to 36.

SKILL 10 STAMINA 13

5

Thinking quickly, you snatch the bird from the
branch! It flutters in your hands, but a sharp
squeeze silences it. The Ophidiotaur hears the rust-
ling and tums to see what is happening. You step
slowly from the undergrowth, holding out the bird
towards it, as an offering. At first the creature is
startled by your arrival, but your slow approach
seems to reassure it. You hold the bird closer and its
tongue darts out to snatch the food from you. You
calm it down for a short time, then swing yourself
up on to its back. It shrugs and snorts for a moment
or two, but its protests are few and you realize that
you now have a steed! After allowing the Ophi-
diotaur to drink from the river, you grasp its neck
with your wide fingers and dig your heels into its
haunches.

Without warning, the creature turns and gallops off
into the undergrowth! Its strong legs take you faster

6

and faster through the woods, Branches catch your
legs and arms, while you are hugging the Ophi-
diotaur’s neck tightly for balance and to protect your
head. The journey continues for a seemingly end-
less time, until you are so sore from riding that you
wish the beast would throw you off. But finally you
arrive at a clearing where the creature pulls up and
stops, With great relief you step down from its back
and survey the area, while your steed gallops back
into the woods. Turn to 366.

6

The door opens and you find yourself in a corridor
which heads south for a few paces and then turns to
the west. Your claws extend themselves, ready fora
sudden encounter. You follow the passageway
around the corner. Eventually you reach a point
where the passage turns back southwards. But
something on the rocky floor in front of you has
attracted your attention. In the elbow of the bend is
a large black circle which seems to shimmer in the
blue light. Perhaps it is a pool of liquid? Or maybe
some dark metallic substance? As you are consider-
ing this, you hear a noise behind you, which may
have been a quiet footstep. Is someone following
vou? You turn round but can see nothing. Now you
must decide what to do. Will you investigate the
shape on the floor (turn to 445), or will you try to
avoid the circle by walking round it (turn to 30)?
1

The pain is unbearable! Summoning up all your
energy, you open your eyes — first one, then the
other. They narrow to slits as they adjust them-
selves to the strain of trying to see once more, then
relax as they make out familiar shapes in the dim
hight: a dirt floor, rocky walls ... Then the pain
takes over. Your head rocks. Your eyes submit and
close tightly in an agonized grimace. instinctively
you raise your hands to cup your face, and a low
moan mingles with the rasping sound as your rough
fingers rub the scaly skin above your eyes.

After some time the pain begins to ease. You open
your eyes once more and peer out from between
your gnarled fingers. You seem to be at the dead
end of a passageway. Your surroundings are barely
visible, but a dull glow is coming from the northern
extent of the passageway, which stretches before
you. A sound is also coming from this direction — of
regular breathing. Something alive is up there!
You heave your great bulky body to its feet. Along
your back, the spines bristle. Swinging your heavy
head slowly from side to side, your progress is
decided: northwards is the only option oper to you.
Muscles strain and succeed in raising a lumbering
toot, which thuds loudly down on the ground in
front of you. You repeat the action, first with one
foot, then the other. After four steps the motion has
become automatic. You are moving more quickly
and more quietly up the passage. When you reach
the end, your eyes are drawn to a huddled shape
ving on the ground in front of you.

1

The small figure lies on its side, facing away from
you. It is shrouded in a dirty brown cape tied
around its neck and it lies in a puddle of thick red
liquid. Its body rises and falls irregularly with each
breath. Some unidentified feeling swells within
you. Is itanger? Hate? Fear? Curiosity? Hunger? Or
even sympathy? You bend down towards the little
creature, uttering a meaningless grunt as you do so.

The sound rouses the figure, which rolls slowly over
to face you. The creature’s dirty face is light-
skinned, though barely visible under the thick hair
which shades its closed eyes and almost totally
obscures its mouth. From its chin the hair rolls
abundantly down its chest in a grey, unruly mass.
Underneath the body, and now exposed by the
creature’s movement, is a sharp, shiny shaft and
this catches your attention.

As you stand there staring, the creature’s eyes flick
open! They focus on your bulky shape and a look of
terror streaks across the creature’s face. In spite of
its pain, it fumbles for and grasps the shiny shaft,
holding its pointed end out towards you and baring
its teeth.

The wounded Dwarf you have found is evidently in
need of help. Will you:

Show him you mean no harm? Turn to 93
Try to talk to him? Turn to 364
Bring your foot down heavily on his

neck? Turn to 185

2-3

2
You sit down between the three Hobbits, licking
your lips as you remember the tender taste of their
flesh. Grabbing the nearest one, you sink your teeth
ravenously into its meaty rump and let out a soft,
low growl of contentment. For a short while you
feast messily on the hapless creatures. Each Hobbit
was carrying a small pouch of those flat, round,
shiny pieces of metal and you may take these with
you if you wish. They are, in fact, Gold Pieces and if
you decided to take them, you are now carrying 12
with you. You may restore your STAMINA to its
Initial level for the tasty meal and may add a LucK
point for your victory.

You must now leave the chamber. Do you wish to
continue east along a passage opposite the one you
entered by? If so, turn to 153. If you wish to retrace
your steps to the junction and take the northerly
passageway, turn to 311.

He eyes you suspiciously. ‘Is that so? Well, no doubt
he gave you the gesture too. Come on, then, Let’s
have it!’ What will your gesture be?

The sign of a cross? Turn to 387
The sign of a circle? Turn to 22
You make no gesture? Turn to 437

4-5

4
You summon up your strength and launch into

battle, frantically trying to slash at the vines with
your claws. But the tunnel is thick and the vines are
difficult to cut (this is reflected in their high sKILL
score). Resolve your battle with the tunnel of
Gluevines:

GLUEVINES

If you escape from the tangled mass of vegetation,
turn to 36.

SKILL 10 STAMINA 13

5
Thinking quickly, you snatch the bird from the

branch! It flutters in your hands, but a sharp
squeeze silences it. The Ophidiotaur hears the rust-
ling and turns to see what is happening. You step
slowly from the undergrowth, holding out the bird
towards it, as an offering. At first the creature is
startled by your arrival, but your slow approach
seems to reassure it. You hold the bird closer and its
tongue darts out to snatch the food from you. You
calm it down for a short time, then swing yourself
up on to its back. It shrugs and snorts fora moment
or two, but its protests are few and you realize that
you now have a steed! After allowing the Ophi-
diotaur to drink from the river, you grasp its neck
with your wide fingers and dig your heels into its
haunches

Without warning, the creature turns and gallops off
into the undergrowth! Its strong legs take you faster

6

and faster through the woods. Branches catch your
legs and arms, while you are hugging the Ophi-
diotaur’s neck tightly for balance and to protect your
head. The journey continues for a seemingly end-
less time, until you are so sore from riding that you
wish the beast would throw you off. But finally you
arrive at a clearing where the creature pulls up and
stops. With great relief you step down from its back
and survey the area, while your steed gallops back
into the woods. Turn to 366.

6

The door opens and you find yourself in a corridor
which heads south for a few paces and then turns to
the west. Your claws extend themselves, ready fora
sudden encounter. You follow the passageway
around the corner. Eventually you reach a point
where the passage turns back southwards. But
something on the rocky floor in front of you has
attracted your attention. In the elbow of the bend is
a large black circle which seems to shimmer in the
blue light. Perhaps it is a pool of liquid? Or maybe
some dark metallic substance? As you are consider-
ing this, you hear a noise behind you, which may
have been a quiet footstep. Is someone following
you? You turn round but can see nothing. Now you
must decide what to do. Will you investigate the
shape on the floor (turn to 445), or will you try to
avoid the circle by walking round it (turn to 30)?

7-8

7

With the lifeless Blood Orcs lying at your feet, your
attentions now turn to the human in the dirty robes.
He is staggering about in fear for his life, his eyes
tilted slightly towards the ceiling. ‘Hbvfem fr cy epn
obablindim bn a whpf vfre ypvubrf. Jfiypvub rfefr jf
nde thfnel fbda mf efr pmothjsi plbcf. Jf typv ubr fe
fpfethf ne Ifbvfe mfebf. Ypvu brf estrb ng flyesjl fnt.
Whpobr f eypv. Dpo ypyuvnd fr s tbnd amf. My eg
pdo jn trvdfr. J fiy pvrup} bna jsit pod pob whyaw
jth jmf e thfne dpoj ti qvjckl y. Pt hfrwj sf ebfe pf fow
jthi ypv.’ Jf iypy uc bnav ndfr stb ndath fehv
mbnatvr nut por fffrf n cfetw po hvn drfd. ‘Spo
whbtajs ij ti tpobf. Jsinpto myomj sfrye fnp vgh.
Shpw och br jty. Gj vfem feg pld o bnda f ffde mf.
Prol fb vfem febf.’ What do you wish to do with this
creature? Will you ignore him and feast on the meat
of the Blood Orcs (turn to 420)? Will you slay him
quickly to stop his noise (turn to 25)? Or will you
simply leave the room (turn to 138)?

8

When he sees your Ring of Truth, he shifts ner-
vously: ‘Oop! Ahh. . . Whatam! saying? Of course;
you said Stittle Woad, didn’t you? Underground
indeed! Silly me: the village is high in the tree-tops.
Although I fear you will never find it and you are
wasting your time looking. Our village is the home
of the Vapours and while they remain safely in the
village, sorcery disguises it to all but welcome eyes.’
He now wishes to go, and you watch him disappear
into the woods in the direction you came from. You
may now leave the clearing by turning to 414.

9-10

9
In a fit of rage you rush across the room and swing

vour fist, with claws open, at another head. Again
the claws rip the head from its perch and send it
flying out of the light and out of sight. And again
vou hear no sound to indicate it landing anywhere.
This time your eyes are fixed on the vacant space
uluminated by the light. Sure enough, the head
floats through the air and comes to rest in its original
position, the claw wounds showing up clearly on
the side of its face. You hit it again. The same thing
happens. But this time you feel the wave of pain
coming on again. The pain grows inside you withan
intensity much greater than before. You slump
howling to the ground until it eventually subsides.
Lose 6 STAMINA points. If you are still alive, you
decide to leave the room quickly. Turn to 79.

10

You leave the path and make your way through the
undergrowth, following the sounds of his cries, But
although you can hear him, you cannot see him
anywhere! Your frustration builds up and you
thrash about in the foliage. An unnatural click be-
neath your foot should have been a warning, but in
vour rage, it is a warning which you choose to
ignore. An instant later, the trap has sprung and
vou are hoisted into the air by your ankle, and
dangle helplessly from the tree-top! And there,
hanging a short distance away, is the old Rhino-
Man!
11

Your attempts to free yourself are all to no avail.
Birds are beginning to circle round you, and you
are feeling decidedly weak. But in the distant sky,
a tiny shape comes into view. As it draws near,
you realize it is not a bird. It is much too large to be
any living creature and its size eventually frightens
off the birds circling above you. The old Rhino-Man
has seen it too. ‘The Galleykeep!’ he moans. You
watch as billowing sails bring the vessel closer and
closer, until it eventually stops above you. A pole is
lowered over the side. It grabs the rope from which
you are hanging and hoists you on to the deck. You
are too tired and weak to resist as rough hands
shove your neck through the nearby guillotine. This
foraging expedition has been most successful. The
crew will be provided with a hearty meal
tonight...

11
‘Thank you,’ she smiles, depositing the coins deep
in the folds of her clothing. “Now we may see what
fate has in store for you. I will shuffle the Pack of
Fate and you must tell me when to stop.’ She picks
up the cards and begins to shuffle them slowly,
Staring deep into your eyes as she does so. You
grunt when you want her to stop. She then starts
turning cards over.

The first card is black, with the symbol of a question
mark delicately drawn in its centre. ‘Ah, the mys-
tery card.’ Rosina smiles. ‘All is not as it seems.
There are many things about you, your past and
your destiny that are unclear, even to you.’ She

11

turns over another card. Again it is black, but this
one has a small yellow sun symbol in the centre.
‘Hmm, yes. . . Lightin the darkness.’ Sheis becom-
ing engrossed in the cards. ‘This is good. Your
destiny may be attained. But fate will not be kind to
you. It may not be easy.’ The next card shows a
young pregnant woman in a coffin, and the next
shows a cloak and wand. ‘A mother deceased! And
the mystic arts! Then surely must your birth have
been one not of nature but of sorcery. [must concen-
trate. . .” She turns over another card and this one
shows a man lying on a cloud, pointing into the
distance. The next shows a man with two heads,
looking in different directions. ‘The geas! A mission
to be fulfilled. You have been sent. But I also see
confusion. I must look further.’

She leaves the cards and moves her crystal ball into
the centre of the table. As she concentrates on it, the
glass begins to turn cloudy. An inner light shines
from the ball and lights up Rosina’s eyes. ‘Sisters

’ she speaks. ‘Sisters of Dree! So it is you who
have set this task! But this creature knows not of
Sculliweed or of the dangers of . . . I see. But I may
shorten the search. My aid shall help fulfil its des-
tiny.’ The light in the glass fades and she turns to
you. “You have been set an unfair task,’ she says.
‘For the blue-stemmed Sculliweed grows only in the
Swamps of the Toadmen on the southern shores of
the Deedlewater. But even one such as you may not
survive alone in these swamps. Without help you
will surely die. J can offer you some help. Take the
rope that hangs over there: it may prove useful. And

12-13

may fortune sit astride your shoulders!’ You take
the coil of rope, sling it around your neck and over
your shoulder and turn back to Rosina, But she has
left the room. You may add 2 LUCK points for the
information. You leave her hut and pause to con-
sider what she has told you, then set off back
towards the crossroads. Turn to 386.

12
You follow the trail until you reach the top of a hill.
The trail winds down into a valley. You pick your
way cautiously down and reach the bottom safely.
But as you pause to rest for a moment, you are
startled by a rustling in the bushes behind you. You
swing round just in time to avoid the sharp blade of
an axe, which misses your face by inches! You growl
deep down in your throat and turn to face the tall
Woodcutter who has attacked. Resolve this combat:

WOODCUTTER SKILL 8 STAMINA 9
If you defeat him, turn to 17.

Le,

As the last adventurer falls to the ground and
silence once more fills the passageway, you pause to
test from the exertion. You squat on your haunches
and look at the two battered humans in front of you.
You may now choose either to feast on the bodies to
regain some of your lost strength (turn to 223),
search the bodies for anything that might be in-
teresting (turn to 187), or poke through the sack that
the first adventurer laid to one side (turn to 147).
14-15

14

You storm ahead up the passageway towards the
Dark Elf, roaring loudly and with claws ready
to strike. But the Elf does not budge. He merely
notches another arrow and looses it towards you.
This time the arrow sinks deep into your stomach
and you clutch at the wound. Lose 3 STAMINA
points. Tears of pain flood your eyes, but you will
not hold back. Again you advance, and again the Elf
notches his arrow. But this time the bowman’s aim
is true. The arrow is fired higher, at your face.
Before you have time to react, his shaft has pierced
your eye and lodged in your brain. Mercifully, your
death is instantaneous.

15
All is silent as you enter. The room is large, with a
high ceiling, and a musty smell permeates the air.
There are four doors leading from the room, one in
each wall. A long table stands in the middle of the
room and on it is a short stick with a metal head
lying next to some small spikes. A couple of planks
of wood are resting against the table. This is
evidently a workroom of some sort. In one corner of
the room you find the products of the work carried
on here. Two tall and thin wooden boxes, almost as
tall as you are, are leaning against the wall. They are
standing next to a hole in the wall, just above
floor-level, which is wide enough to fit one of the
boxes through. You puzzle over this for some time.

16

What do you want to do:
Have a look inside the boxes? Turn to 217
Investigate the hole in the wall? Turn to 319
Ignore what you see? Turn to 436

16

The spell begins to take effect. Your body feels as if
each of its joints is being bent in a wrong direction!
You drop to the floor and writhe about, wailing
pitifully, but there is no escape from the agony that
the necromancer is inflicting on you. Invisible
knives are being plunged into your chest and each is
being made to scrape slowly against the bones of
your ribs, You hold up your hand for mercy and
Marr releases the spell. Gasping in horror, in awe of
the wizard’s power, you take the knapsack and
slowly hold it out towards him. He snatches it from
you. Turn to 74.

17

17

You can see ahead that a river runs through the
valley, and you make your way to its banks. As you
get closer to the water, you notice that the veg-
etation is changing. The lush green colour of the
trees and bushes higher up the valley is replaced by
a darker olive colour and the plants down here are
decidedly less healthy. Spindly branches reach out
at unnatural angles as if pleading for mercy. On the
ground, many of the roots of the contorted trees are
exposed and have been eaten away. The surround-
ing bushes are often leafless, and the effect is rather
eerie. A faint smell hangs in the air.

You continue down towards the river. The closer
you get, the stronger the smell becomes, until
eventually it is overpowering. The stench seems to
come from the river itself, and when you arrive at its
banks, you can see why. Indescribable filth and
excrement is being carried along by the foul waters
But as the only path runs along the banks, you will
have to choose. Will you follow the river upstream
(turn to 427) or downstream (turn to 423), or will you
leave the path and make your way through the
undergrowth (turn to 57)?

18-21

18

You turn to leave the river-bank. But something is
not quite nght. You came along a trail, but that trail
has now disappeared! Where you had expected it to
be is now overgrown with tall rushes and the only
trail leading away from the bank is one to your left.
Bewildered, you follow it until you reacha clearing.
Turn to 315.

19
You turn from the door and plod once more through
the cold slime. By the time you reach the passage-
way to the east, the cold has worked its way through
even your thick, scaly skin. You must lose 1 sTAM-
INA point for your freezing feet and turn to 84.

20
You find yourself at a dead end: there is no way
through. You will have to retrace your steps. Turn

to 279.

21
Although you are racked with the pains of hunger,
vour mind has made an intelligent deduction. Your
hunger started when you threw the red robe about
vour shoulders. If you take the robe off, you should
tid yourself of this curse. You grab the collar reso-
lutely. But try as you may, you cannot pull it from
vour shoulders. Some powerful bewitchmentis pre-
venting your arm from flinging the robe to the floor!
Incredulous, you struggle with yourself for some
time, but finally give in to the mysterious force,

eee LUG TT t"#lan
22-23

which is much more powerful than your own will.
Your hunger is now all-consuming. Turn to 109.

22
‘A circle, eh?’ he mutters. ‘All right, then, in you
come.’ Amazed at your success, you enter the
guardroom. It is a dirty place, with clothes and food
strewn around and an unpleasant smell — a mixture
of stale sweat and rancid ale — hanging in the air.
When you are in the centre of the room, you turn to
the guard. Crack! Had you turned an instant earlier
you may have been quick enough to avoid the heavy
blow which has landed on your head, You fall to
your knees in a state of near-unconsciousness and
you must lose 4 STAMINA points. Meanwhile the
guard is advancing towards you with a heavy club
in his hand. Turn to 98 to fight him.

23
You uncoil the rope from around your shoulder and
search for something to lasso. But there is nothing
around that would seem solid enough to let you pull
yourself out. The bulrushes are certainly not strong
enough to bear your weight. You have now sunk to
your waist and unless you spy something soon, you
will not be able to throw the rope! Frantically you
search for something as you slip deeper and deeper
into the mud. Then, hidden behind the rushes and
reeds, you catch a glimpse of a tree-stump. It is not
tall, but it looks sturdy enough. But how can you
rope it? You fling the rope towards it — and some-
thing miraculous happens.

23

As the rope leaves your hands, it unfurls as if it had
a will of its own. You watch it twist around itself in
the air, forming a knot at one end. Then, as it falls, it
snakes between the reeds, and drops with its knot
wedged firmly in the shoulder of a branch. The rest
of the rope trails out towards you and you test it
eagerly, then haul yourself from what would other-
wise have been a muddy grave. Filthy but safe, you
stand on firm ground, marvelling at the enchanted
rope.

But unknown to you, you are not the only one
marvelling at the rope’s powers. Two large, glisten-
ing eyes blink slowly in astonishment as the rope
coils itself up, now that its work is done. While you
re considering which of the two ways onwards to
follow, a thin, webbed hand steals out, grabs the
rope and snatches it back into the reeds. Your rope
is gone! You search round for any sign of it, but can
find none. You will have to continue without it. If
you follow the trail to the north, turn to 267. If you
make your way to the north-east, turn to 114.

24-25

You leave the path and clamber up over the rocks to
get a look at the nearest hole. It is just out of your
reach, and you must hoist yourself up to be able to
peer into it. As your head comes up to the level of
the hole and the glow splashes across your eyes, the
cause of the light reveals itself—and gives you sucha
fright that you lose your grip and tumble down to
the path. For you came face to face with a huge
head, with grilled-patterned eyes and clattering
mandibles. This Giant Hornet launches itself from
its home and swoops down on you, its poisonous
sting aimed straight at your chest! Turn to 332.

25

Irritated by the human’s constant rantings, you step
across the room towards him. He does not react at
all to your approach and it is an easy matter for you
to swipe him with a clawed fist. Your blow sends
him flying back across the room where he smacks
his head against the wall and lands in a lifeless heap
on the floor. You may now either feast on the bodies
(turn to 289) or leave the room (turn to 138).

26-28

26

You wade slowly into the pond and relax in its cool,
refreshing water. When you emerge from the water,
you feel much better and may add 2 STAMINA
points. But when you look down at yourself, you
are astonished to see that your scales are no longer
their usual dark browny-green colour, but are
covered in a glistening layer of milky liquid which is
drying to leave a silvery sheen. Although you try to
brush it off, it will not smear — much to your
annoyance! But in fact this silvery layer is a coating
of a magical material that will act as thin armour.
While you are covered in the silvery layer, you may
add 1 to your sKILL score. But it will be washed off
if you bathe in clear water. Now turn to 52 to
continue.

27
The other three creatures back away from you as
you turn from the dying EIf to face them. They
scatter into the crowd. Turn to 348.

28
If you picked up a crystal club during your adven-
ture, you will have been given a reference number
to turn to should you wish to use it. Do not turn to
this number now, but instead add it to the number
of this reference. Turn to the reference correspond-
ing to this total.

29

29

The handle turns freely and you open the door. The
room inside is lit by a single candle and your eyes
adjust themselves to the dimness. The walls appear
to be covered in a single continuous tapestry which
depicts all sorts of scenes of death and carnage.
Gattles are being fought; creatures are feasting on
other creatures; torture scenes are so vivid that you
can almost feel the pain. You follow the tapestry,
engrossed in its detail —- so engrossed that you have
not noticed the sinister figure seated in the shadows
across the room. When it speaks, the shock of its
deep voice makes you gasp!

‘Who is this? Who dares disturb the rest of the
Master of Hellfire?’ You peer into the shadow to try
to make out the figure, but you cannot see much
more than the outline of a large figure, which
heaves as it takes short breaths. As each breath
leaves the creature, a gurgling sound comes from its
throat. This noise is getting louder; the creature is
rising from its seat! It stands up slowly and its
silhouette becomes much larger than you imagined.
Will you run from the room (turn to 113) or face it
defiantly (turn to 143)?

30-31

30

You step over to the right and give the circle a wide
berth. Halfway round, your ears prick up. Another
footstep! With claws at the ready, you turn to face
your pursuer. But again there is no one there! The
quick turn in a narrow space causes you to stumble
momentarily. You quickly regain your balance — but
not quickly enough . . .

For as you put your foot out to steady yourself, you
stepped on the edge of the black circle. Quick asa
flash, the circle spread itself out and engulfed your
foot! And now you realize the danger of the Black-
mouth Floortrap. As you tumble into the black hole,
you find yourself falling over and over through a
dark void, until you lose consciousness. The real
horror in store will, thankfully, never be known to
you..

31

Without hesitating to consider your actions, you
spring at the skeleton creature. Seeing you advance,
it grabs two surgeon’s knives from the desk and
faces you. Resolve your battle:

QUIMMEL BONE
If you defeat the physician, turn to 359.

SKILL 8 STAMINA 7

32-33

32
Inside the shack, sacks of grain and nuts lie on the
floor, and strips of dried meat hang over the coun-
ter; loaves of bread and other foods are also to be
found. Behind the counter, a puny villager is cower-
ing behind a sack of weedroots. When you enter,
he tries to hide from you, but you have seen him. If
you have any coins, you may buy some provisions.
if not, you may try to steal some, or you can leave. If
you wish to buy provisions, you may spend 1 Gold
Piece (turn to 131) or 2 Gold Pieces (turn to 146). If
you want to try stealing, turn to 410, If youleave and
head west out of the village, turn to 274.

33
You leave the room along a dusty corridor. A

strange bluish light comes from glowstones set in
the ceiling to light your way. With every step you
take, a glowstone ahead of you lights up and one
behind you fades to darkness; it is almost as if your
progress were being monitored by some unseen
entity. As you wait for your eyes to adjust to the
light, you pause to consider the strange events in
the previous room. You retract your claws and rub
your rough, scaly belly thoughtfully. You can make
no sense of what has happened. Eventually you set
off once more and after a few paces you come to a
junction. A passageway runs off to the north. You
may take this (turn to 311), or you may continue in
an easterly direction (turn to 390).

34-35

34

Once more the Shadow Stalker raises its knife and
plunges it down into your shadow, Again you try to
leap aside, but this time its blow grazes your chest.
Lose 2 more STAMINA points. You try anticipating
where the creature will be and slashing it with your
claws, but your blow cuts through thin air. The
Shadow Stalker does not even try to avoid you.
Again you slash ineffectually, and this time the
creature plunges its knife into your shadow’s back.
The pain shoots through your body; lose 3 stam-
INA points. Now you must decide what to do. Will
you try to escape by leaving the room (turn to 242),
or will you stop your attack and try to make peace
with the Shadow Stalker (turn to 135)?

35
The old woman can hardly walk and you leave her

behind as you head for the market. She wails piti-
fully as you ignore her pleas, but you have no wish
to get involved with her. The sound of the market
soon drowns out her cries. You wander round the
barrows and begin to head for the street performers,
when a fat man comes over to you. He approaches
you cautiously and whispers to you: ‘Pssst. Say,
handsome! [ got a little ... er . . . proposition for
you. Want to hear about it? Come round here.’ He
leads you round a corner to a secluded alley.

‘Hey, I could use someone with your strength in my
business,’ he says enthusiastically. ‘It’s not easy to
go collecting all these cursing ingredients. I figure

36

you and me could make a fine team. Well?’ He claps
his hand on your shoulder as you both turn round
the corner into the alley. Waiting in the alley are two
unkempt, burly men, who are holding a net. As you
turn the corner, they fling itoveryouand pull you to
the ground! You struggle to break out of the net, but
the more you struggle, the tighter it seems to wind
around you. Eventually you can struggle no more
and you lie back exhausted. ‘Phew!’ puffs the fat
man. ‘A real fighter! Too bad we can’t use this one,
eh, boys? But I think | know an old sorcerer in
Chalice who will pay handsomely for this fellow’s
internals, Right, Slitter, do your stuff. But make
sure your knife don't do no damage inside. Remem-
ber it’s got glands in its neck and they no doubt will
fetch a fair price . . .”

36
The struggle has been monumental and you lie
down on the ground exhausted. The wrecked tun-
nel has collapsed and you stare at it, gasping to
regain your breath. The sound of your own breath-
ing drowns out the sound of the small creatures
approaching . . .

Chattering excitedly to one another, a small band of
Forest Imps has arrived at their trap to take home
the day’s meal. Unaware that you have already
destroyed the trap, the tiny, spindly creatures enter
the far end of the tunnel easily, You do not even hear
them until their shrieks of anger, on discovering
that their trap has been ruined, break through the

37

sound of your heavy breathing. Twelve skinny pairs
of legs carry the noisy, green-skinned Imps scurry-
ing along towards you. When they discover you,
they halt, wary of your immense strength. But you
are too tired to survive a fight against twelve armed
Imps. And you have no chance when their spears
have been dipped into a fast-acting poison from the
deadly Stingroot plant...

37
The descent is long and steep, but eventually you

reach the foot of the staircase, where you find a
deadly cluster of iron spikes waiting to greet crea-
tures less fortunate than you in maintaining their
balance. However, beyond the spikes, there
appears to be no way onwards. You have reached a
dead end. You step up to examine it more closely.
As you are doing so, a shiver passes over you and
you feel an overwhelming desire to sneeze! No
matter what you do, you cannot avoid the sneeze
and it eventually erupts with force enough to shake
the very walls around you! You open your eyes and
rub your nose with a scaly hand. Your surroundings
have changed! No longer are you at the foot of a
staircase with a dead end before you, but instead
you are standing at a spot where the dead end is to
the west! Where are you? You wander eastwards
along the passage until you arrive at a junction. If
you wish to walk north, turn to 443. If you want to
go east, turn to 50.

38-39

38

Eventually the guard returns, panting, ‘It seems
you were right.’ He shrugs. “There’s no sign of him
anywhere. Mind you, I can’t let you through here.
No one’s allowed through without Darramouss’s
permission. At least, not unless... er. . . certain

..ahem. . . special arrangements are made, if you
understand my meaning.” He looks at the pendant
hanging round your neck. ‘That's a handsome little
piece,’ he says. ‘Now I’m sure special arrangements
could be made if you were to leave this behind. Just
our — shall we say — bond to make sure you return.
And mine to keep if you don’t!’ If you wish to give
him your pendant, he will let you through his
guardroom, but you may never again find secret
passages without it. Make your choice. If you will
pay his price, turn to 442. If this price is too high, the
only way you are going to get through is by attack-
ing him (turn to 73).

39
No sooner have you dealt the final death-blow than
another Chaos Warrior appears at the archway.
Resolve your combat with the creature:

CHAOS WARRIOR
If you defeat the Warrior, turn to 397.

SKILL 9 STAMINA 7

ig =a =

40-41

40

As you are about to turn to leave the dead end, the
pendant around your neck suddenly starts to vi-
brate! Remembering what happened last time this
occurred, you hold the talisman out towards the
tock-face. A low humming comes from the charm
and its vibrating becomes more pronounced.
Eventually, the blue stone set in its centre begins to
glow and a narrow beam of blue light illuminates a
small catch in the rock. You release the catch and the
rocky door rumbles aside to reveal a small room
ahead in the rock. In the room is a long wooden box
on a sturdy table. Around the room are a variety of
abjects — plates, candlesticks and many other arte-
facts arranged on shelves and smaller tables. Lean-
ing against the central table are two skeletons. One
looks human, but the other looks decidedly non-
human, having the jaws of some sort of creature of
Chaos. A musty smell comes from the room; it no
doubt has not been visited for some time. Will you
venture inside (turn to 296), or will you ignore the
room and leave the area (turn to 279)?

41
You leave the cavern and head along the passage
which leads to the north. Again the route twists and
turns, but you progress without incident. Eventu-
ally you reach the foot of a flight of stairs carved out
of the rock and leading up into darkness. You climb
the stairs and reach a junction where you may head
either north (turn to 136) or east (turn to 156).

42-43

42
The excitement is too much. Your blood boils with

the fire of battle and the promise of feasting on the
juicy bodies of the three Hobbits. You cannot con-
trol yourself and you launch yourself into the cham-
ber, claws poised to strike. As you rush towards
them, the Hobbits shriek in terror and draw their
shortswords to defend themselves. Resolve the
battle:

SKILL STAMINA
First HOBBIT 6 6
Second HOBBIT 5 6
Third HOBBIT 6 7

The Hobbits will all attack at the same time. If you
defeat them all, turn to z.

43
The idea of serving as a guard on the Galleykeep

attracts you. Sailing through the air on missions of
mayhem and destruction; helping your glorious
leader defeat his enemies; a life of purpose and
excitement instead of one of aimless wanderings.
Your mind is made up. You will make a formidable
guard for Zharradan Marr; your loyalty will be
assured by the generous doses of Droneweed fed to
you daily in your Hobbit broth . . .

44-46

44
You ignore the words of the foul witches and you
may continue straight away. Will you return to the
stones and investigate them (turn to 198)? Will you
continue past the stones into the wood (turn to 261)?
Or will you investigate the building you are in (tum

to 253)?

45

You leave the Chubbley tree and continue along the
trail. A little further on you pause on top of a hillock
and survey the area. In the distance to your right
you can see a great forest, and straight ahead a river
cuts through the landscape like a gaping wound. To
the left, the green colour of the grassy countryside
fades to sandy brown as the bleak Windward Plain
stretches west as far as you can see, You head on
and, shortly after you have left the hillock, another
trail joins yours from the left. Turn to 134.

46
Your hope fades as another Chaos Warrior raises his
weapon and advances to do battle:

CHAOS WARRIOR
[f you win this battle, turn to 39.

SKILL 8 STAMINA 8

47-49

47

With shining white eyes, the Weather Mage turns
towards you. He holds his hands in front of his
eyes, and his long fingernails obscure them from
you. When his hands finally lower, a small dark
cloud hovers in the air before him. You are fasci-
nated by this display and can do nothing but watch
as the tiny cloud drifts across the room, and stops in
mid-air, a short distance from you. A_ shmill
whistling starts as the cloud begins spinning. Faster
and faster it spins until its underside drops slowly to
the ground, and the tornado drifts towards you.
Too late you realize its deadly purpose. When the
tornado touches you, even your great strength can-
not prevent your being sucked inside and instantly
crushed to death by the Weather Mage’s creation.

48
Ignoring the weaker-looking of the two humans,
you face the figure in clinking armour. He holds his
ground, his sword poised ready to strike. Resolve
your combat with the Knight in plate-armour:

ARMOURED KNIGHT  SsKILL8 STAMINA
If you defeat him, turn to 392.

49
The passage leads east. A short distance ahead, you
arrive at a rocky bridge across a deep chasm. Far
below you can hear the sloshing of a slow-moving
river and you step up to the edge of the bridge to get

50

a better look. A disgusting smell is coming up from
the river, and as this hits your nostrils, you stagger a
few paces backwards. But this is the only way on.
The bridge is narrow and wet from the moisture in
the air: no doubt itis slippery too. Nevertheless, you
have no choice. You hold your breath and step on to
the bridge. But halfway across, you lose your foot-
ing on the slippery bridge. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 457. If you are Unlucky, turn to 60.

50

The passage continues east and you pass under two
carved archways before you finally find yourselfina
small, circular room with no apparent way on-
wards. While you are considering what to do, you
feel a slight shift.in the ground beneath your feet.
Almost as if you had pressed some invisible switch,
your surroundings have now changed! Frantically,
you look round to find the tunnel by which you
entered, but it has disappeared. There is now no
way out of the room. A rumbling noise from be-
neath the floor is followed by a fierce roaring. But
this is not the roaring of a creature! Smoke seeps
from the walls and you begin to sweat as the
temperature increases. The room is becoming an
oven in which you are beginning to roast! As the
temperature becomes unbearable, you search
round for any means of escape. Are you wearing a
pair of yellow metal bracelets? If so, turn to 202. If
not, turn to 339.

a

51

51

You leave the room along a passageway which runs
west, your thoughts still dwelling on the mysterious
smoke creature. After a short time, you find that the
passage is bending this way and that through the
rocky earth. But your progress is aided by the
strange blue glowstones which are set into the roof
of the passage. As you progress, glowstones ahead
of you light up and bathe the area in an eerie blue
light. When you look behind, you can see that they
magically turn themselves off. Suddenly a distant
echo reaches your ears and you stop dead in your
tracks. Again you hear the sound — and it is coming
closer! Footsteps and muffled voices are heading
towards you. You are fortunate in having the
advantage that your own footsteps are virtually
silent, so you continue ahead, ready for a fight with
anything that may come along. You approach a
bend...

A shrill scream pierces the air and for an instant you
are not sure whether it came from your own throat
ot that of the terrified adventurer with whom you
suddenly found yourself nose to nose, when you
turned the bend! But you recover quickly and slash
furiously at the hapless human, who is still trying to
compose himself after his fright. You catch him
across the skimpy leather armour he wears on his
chest, and send him crashing into the rocky wall
where he loses his grip on the sword he is carrying.
His two companions are close behind, so you must
finish off the Strongarm without delay:

52-53
STRONGARM

If you defeat the warrior, turn to 320.

SKILL 7 STAMINA 8

52
You leave the glistening pond and continue along
the path. It winds through the trees until you
eventually reach a fork, where you may continue
either to the left or to the right. In the centre of the
fork a pole has been fixed into the ground and,
hanging from the pole by his wrists, is a sight which
widens your eyes. Half-dead from exposure, but
looking plump and tasty, is a Hobbit! Mouth water-
ing, you rush up to the little creature. As he hears
your footsteps, his eyes open slowly. ‘No. . .’ he
moans, guessing that your intentions do notinvolve
greeting him warmly. ‘Please let me down and leave
me be. I can tell you where both of these paths lead,
and how to avoid the dangers along them . . .’ You
are hungry and the sight of this tasty morsel is an
unexpected treat. Will you cut him down and make
a meal of him (turn to 206), or will you cut him
down, listen to what he says about the paths ahead,
and release him (tum to 70)?

53
You crash off through the reeds in pursuit of the
creature, though the going is difficult. You catch
sight of it again and this time it seems to be hopping
rather awkwardly through the reeds. Your foot slips
and you sink up to your knee in muddy water, but
this does not deter you. However, following the

54

creature is quite difficult. You lose sight of it and
must now follow by the sounds of it crashing
through the reeds. You climb on to a bank and find
yourself in a circular clearing. All is quiet; there are
no signs of the creature. But then suddenly the
reeds behind you part, and you spin around, just as
the wide-mouthed Toadman you have been follow-
ing springs at you. Turn to 68.

54
You wait until the guard has disappeared round the

corner and sneak into his room, It is dirty and
untidy; old food moulders in corners; the bed is
filthy, and dirty blankets are strewn about on the
floor. And there is a smell hanging in the air which is
a mixture of stale human sweat and rancid ale. On
the far side of the room is a metal door. A barred
viewing-hole is open and through the hole you can
see stairs beyond, leading upwards. Suddenly a
noise from behind startles you and you swing round
just in time to see a huge wooden club descending
on your forehead! The blow knocks you to your
knees and you must lose 4 STAMINA points.

‘Just as I thought!’ growls the guard. ‘Darramouss
no more gave you permission to leave than he
would have given permission to the black-eyed
fool!’ Your ruse has been discovered. His club is
raised once more and you must defend yourself.
Turn to 98.

55

55
The road out of Coven leads you past a disused

building. Grog stops. ‘Wait here,’ he says. ‘Tburied
something in this building before I entered Coven
. er... just some worthless family heirlooms.
Sentimental value. Back in a flash.’ He soon returns
with a knapsack, which obviously contains some-
thing quite bulky —a box, perhaps. You are curious,
but he makes no mention of the contents of his
knapsack. ‘Look, you're a strange creature,’ he says
as the two of you set off once more. ‘Nothing to say,
nowhere to go, Where do you come from? Are you
just wandering about? Or are you on some sort of
mission?’ You nod enthusiastically, ‘Ah, I see. But
you can’t talk?’ You shake your head. ‘Hmmm. But
you can shake and ned your head. Well! We're in no
real rush, are we? Let’s make a game of it. I'll try to
find out about your mission and you can tell me
whether or not I’m getting close to the truth. Is it
something you're looking for, rather than someone?’
You nod. ‘Do you know where itis?’ You shake your
head. And so the journey continues.

The trail sweeps round to the north until it eventual-
ly reaches a crossroads. Grog’s face lights up. ‘I
know! he exclaims. ‘Rosina! She will help us! We
must go west.’ Will you follow his advice and go
west (turn to 177), or will you instead go east (turn to
203) or continue north (turn to 130)?

56-57

56

You climb through the hole in the wall and hold
your breath as you step through the cloud of settling
dust. The area is not much deeper and when you
reach its end, you discover what the glittering is.
From high in the ceiling, a powdery trickle of Elven
Dust is falling through the air. It drops gracefully
down from the ceiling, glittering as it falls, but by
the time it reaches the ground it has disappeared!
The magical dust is showering you as you stand
looking up atit, though you can feel nothing. Elven
Dust is a magical powder which is an essential
ingredient in white Elven magic. Though its effects
may remain a mystery to you in the immediate
future, you may well wonder about the significance
of your find. Someone has been trying to wall the
Elven Dust in. Why? Eventually you decide to leave
the recess and the chamber. Turn to 405.

57
You make your way through the undergrowth.

Your progress is very slow. Your bulky body is
impeded by branches and vines, and the going is
both difficult and tiring. And you are not certain
which way you should go, when all directions look
the same. You try various different directions until
you find yourself passing a tree which you can
remember passing just a short time before! You
have been travelling in circles! Your anger builds up
and you thunder through the foliage. An unnatural
click beneath your foot should have been a warning.
But in your rage, itis a warning which you choose to

58-59

ignore. An instant later, the trap has sprung. Your
foot has stepped into a rope noose attached to the
supple stem ofa sapling. The noose tightens around
your ankle and with a whip-like action you are
hoisted into the air, until you dangle helplessly from
the tree-top! Turn to 175.

58
‘Stittle Woad is not far from here,’ he starts. ‘It is
near the Rainbow Ponds. I would say it is two days’
journey from here. Travel in an easterly direction,
keeping the setting sun behind you. If you manage
to find the vicinity of the village, do not look forit on
the surface. It has remained hidden for so long
because it is under the ground. More than this I may
not tell.’ He picks himself up and stretches pain-
fully. After dusting off his robes, he bids you good
day and sets off. You watch him disappear. Turn

to 414.

59
As well as the naval uniforms, you find civilian

clothes and dress for special occasions. But there is
nothing unusual or anything which could provide a
clue as to Marr’s whereabouts. Your frustration
grows. Your heavy fist smashes into the wardrobe,
splintering its timbers. The hanging clothes fall in a
pile on the floor and from the back of the wardrobe,
a round metal shield rolls forwards and drops to a
wobbling spin on the floor. You stoop to get a look at
it. Turn to 302.
60—62

60
You try to regain your footing, but the bridge is too
slippery. You lose your balance completely and
tumble over the edge and down, down towards the
stinking waters below. The current drags you down
and your lungs fill with the putrid waters of the
Bilgewater. Your death is not pleasant . . .

61

You tum east and follow the passageway. You pass
under a narrow archway and find yourself in an
open room, which is well lit by torches fixed high on
the walls. You look around for a way onwards, but
the only passage leading from the room is the one
you arrived along. The room is bare except for a
small pile of what looks like black cloth lying against
one of the walls, Do you want to investigate the
room further (turn to 334), or would you rather
leave (turn to 444)?

62

The creature is somewhat taken aback when you
show that you understand his words. Although you
are of similar sizes, you certainly fook the more
powerful of the two and it is probably for this reason
that the Rhino-Man invites you into his guardroom.

62

‘Are you also one of Marr’s creatures?’ he growls.
When you look puzzled, he snorts. ‘Tf you don’t
know, then you must be locking for either the
Yellowstone Mines or the Testing Grounds in Knot
Oak Wood. Looking at the size of you, I'd reckon
the Testing Grounds were more likely. Darramouss
will know. He knows everything that happens in
these parts. He'll set you right. But don’t cross him.
Even one of your size cannot hope to tangle with
such a foul-tempered lifeless one. And if you make
it to the Testing Grounds, oblige me by finding. . .
oh, what was his symbol? They don’t have names in
the Testing Grounds — except for that foul-breathed
weapon-master, Thugruff. Legionnaire twenty-nine,
I think: a Rhino-Man like me. If he’s stil] alive, he
ought to know this: Gat H’Oulie has escaped with the
ring to the Forest of Spiders! But of course, you cannot
speak, can you? Here, I'll write it down for you.’ He
hands you the message. If you come across ‘Legion-
naire twenty-nine’ later in you adventure, you may
pass on the message by adding his number to the
reference you are on at the time when you identify
him.

You rise to leave the guardroom. The Rhino-Man
gives you directions. ‘Leave through the north door
here. When you arrive at the T-junction, turn right
and follow the passage.’ You take his advice. Turn

to 298.

63

63

Standing before you is a tall, thin figure. It is dark
and humanoid in appearance, although you cannot
make out much in the dim light. You can, however,
clearly make out two large green eyes. The figure is
shrouded in a brightly coloured cape and its hair is
gathered on top of its head in a tight knot. It steps
towards you and flings its cape back to reveal its left
hand, which grips a short bow. Reaching over its
back, it draws an arrow from a quiver, aims at you
and shoots you in the shoulder! Lose 2 sTAMINA
points. You howl with pain and turn towards the
bowman, baring your teeth. But he has yet another
arrow poised to fire. This second arrow rips into
voi forearm with such force that it comes out the
other side and clatters off the wall behind. Lose
another 2 STAMINA points. Your fury is now un-
controllable. Will you unsheathe your claws and
advance on your attacker? Or will you retreat from
this deadly foe? Roll one die. If you roll 1-4, you are
so enraged that you blunder ahead towards the
Dark Elf bowman without a thought of the danger
[turn to 14). If you roll 5 or 6, fear for your life takes
over from your anger and you retreat (turn to 260).
You may Test your Luck if you wish, but you must do
so before you roll the die. If you are Lucky, you may
choose your own option. If you are Unlucky, you
must let your instincts decide and roll the die as
normal.

a

64-65

64

The broken bones on the floor seem to have be-
longed to a medium-sized creature. Many of them
have marks as though they had been gnawed by
some hungry beast with strong jaws. You bend
down to look at them — and to see whether there
may be any morsels of meat left - when a rustling
noise from behind startles you. But before you are
able to turn, you feel sharp teeth digging into your
neck. The creature from the chair! Lose 2 STAMINA
points. You must now resolve your battle with the
hungry Blood Orc which stands before you:

BLOOD ORC

If you defeat the creature, turn to 207.

SKILL 7 STAMINA 5

65

You manage to keep your balance all the way down
the rock-face until you reach the hole. As you step
into the hole, your feet once again touch solid
ground. Your left foot bangs against something
straight and solid. When you bend down to investt-
gate, you find a long length of straight metal, about
as wide as your hand, which runs deep into the
hole. Another identical length runs alongside the
first and the two are held a short distance apart by a
series of blocks of wood. You decide to see where
they lead, and you enter the tunnel. No glowstones
light the way here, so you follow the tracks into
darkness. A short distance ahead you reach a fork.
Will you follow the tracks to the left (turn to 182), or
will you enter the tunnel on the right (turn to 424)?

66-67

66
You fling open the door and rush into the room,
snarling viciously, ready to take on the creatures
you heard inside. But the scene within is not what
you expect. Turn to 161.

67
There are a number of crypts around, but you
choose to enter one which is larger than the others.
You slowly push the door open and it creaks on
trusty hinges. The room inside is dark and empty
except for the great stone tomb standing in the
centre of the room. Your claws clatter along its
surface as you walk around, studying it. But
suddenly another sound catches your attention, the
sound of slow shuffling feet, coming from outside
the crypt. You open the door and just as quickly
slam it shut again. Advancing towards you from the
gravestones, with staring, lifeless faces, are a dozen
living corpses. No doubt they are intent on ridding
themselves of this intruder! Your eyes dart round
the crypt for a hiding-place, but there is none. In
desperation you grasp the lid of the tomb and heave
it aside. Itis empty! But something is happening on
the floor of the tomb. Your removing the lid seems
to have triggered a secret catch, and the base of the
tomb has begun to rumble. It slowly slides aside to
reveal a narrow staircase leading downwards. Do
you wish to see where the staircase leads? If so, turn
to 454. If you would rather take your chance with
the army of Zombies arriving at the door, turn to

321.

68—70

68

He shoves you back into the centre of the clearing
and your feet splash in the wet mud. Suddenly you
stumble as your foot sinks deep. You try to step out,
but it is no use; the more you tread with your feet,
the deeper you sink ... The mud reaches your
chest, then your neck, then begins to fill your mouth
and nose. The Toadman watches your final strug-
gles and a smile spreads across his toothless
mouth...

69

The desk is solidly constructed. The papers
scattered around are written in a strange language
which consists mainly of numbers and symbols.
You leaf through the books and find many anatom-
ical diagrams of a variety of types of creature. The
drawers are full mainly of more papers, but one
drawer is locked. Do you wish to ring the bell (tum
to 236) or examine the specimen jars (turn to 97)?

70
A wave of relief passes across the Hobbit’s face as
you reach up to bite through his ties. ‘Oh, thank
you, thank you,’ he sobs. ‘I will keep my side of the
bargain and tell you what lies down both of these
paths. The path to the left willlead you toadead. . .
Wait! What are you doing? No!’ The little creature
has noticed the mounting frenzy in your eyes as you
try to subdue your natural instinct. You have been
battling valiantly against an impulse to silence the
little creature for good and devour him. But it is

71-72

hopeless; you cannot fight your natural passion. A
single blow sends the Hobbit crashing senselessly to
the ground, and soon you have picked his carcass
clean. Restore your STAMINA to its Initial level and
choose whether to take the fork to the right (turn to
183) or the path to the left {turn to 351).

71
You try to keep your balance as you descend the

narrow stairs, but they are damp and slippery. At
one point you slip and totter perilously near the
edge before regaining your balance and continuing
down. But six steps later, you lose your balance
once again, and this time you are not lucky enough
to regain it. You plunge over the edge of the stair-
case and down, down into the filthy depths of the
Bilgewater River below. The impact is enough to
knock you senseless. And, unable to fight against
the current, you are swept downstream to oblivion.

72

With one hand you swat the door. The force is great
and your fist succeeds in cracking the wood. But the
door does not open and your anger rises. A sound
stirs within the room! You listen carefully and can
hear heavy breathing coming from within, mixed
with a shuffling sound, as if something were slowly
moving around. A growl, deep and low, comes
from your throat. Will you risk facing whatever is
beyond the door? Or will you try the safer route,
back past the Dwarf? Roll one die. If the result is 1,
turn to 419. If you roll 2-6, turn to 170.

73-74

73
With a snarl you leap at the guard’s throat and send

him sprawling back into the room. You both land on
the floor amid piles of old clothes and half-eaten
meals. There is a foul smell in the air, a mixture of
stale sweat and rancid ale. He manages to free
himself from your grip and grab a club from a table,
Turn to 98.

74

You hand the knapsack to Zharradan Marr. ‘That's
right!’ he smiles. ‘Now I shall keep my side of the
bargain. You have sought me out and found me,
overcoming all opposition. That shows resourceful-
ness and intelligence. You are a powerful creature,
and you have had training in leadership, did you
but know it. Do you enjoy the excitement of battle?’
You nod. ‘Then so be it. You shall become my
Commander-in-Chief. Will you serve me?’ The
Prospect of a life of conquest and adventure does
indeed excite you. ‘Very well, then,’ says Marr.
“You shall start duties immediately. Your first task is
to execute your predecessor, Vallaska Roue. Not
only has he failed me in allowing you through to my
private quarters, but he has so far failed to locate the
Rainbow Pools. His usefulness is at an end. Once
Roue is dead, you shall have command of the
Galleykeep, under my orders!’

And thus your fate is decided. How you will fare as
Commander of Zharradan Marr’s forces will be
decided by your own skill. Your leader is known for
his ruthlessness. Perhaps you will be remembered

75-76

as his greatest Commander; perhaps your fate will
be that of your predecessor. Whatever the outcome,
one thing is for certain; your aimless life will finally
have a sense of purpose...

75
The passage heads straight for some time until you

finally reach its end at a junction. You may turn
either east or west here. If you wish to go east, turn
to 326. If you wish to go west, turn to 353.

76

You arrive back at the tree and study it incredu-
lously. There it is standing right in the middle of a
path which you walked along only moments ago.
Yet it seems to be as lifeless as a gallows’ pole, and
its roots are well buried in the ground. Are you
imagining things? Unfortunately for you, you are
not, as you realize the next instant when a branch
catches you on the shoulder. You recoil in fright and
took up to see the branches of the tree slowly
shifting round, as if blowing in the wind, and
bending towards you. The tree is alive! One of the
branches catches your arm and wraps its tip round
ike a bullwhip! You flinch and snatch your arm
away. . . and at that very moment, the creature’s
eves flick open!

The Tree Spirit’s icy glare freezes you to the spot.
Your heart is pounding, but you are unable to move!
Finally, you break its stare and manage to turn
round and run. But only then do you realize the
secret of Xenowood, as this mysterious part of the

~~

77-78

Forest of Spiders is known. Another Tree Spirit is
blocking your way, and more are shifting slowly
towards you. A huge circle of the creatures
surrounds you! Turn to 434.

77
You enter the passage. It twists and turns through

the rock in a haphazard way untiit finally opens out
into a small cavern. You pause to get your bearings
and search for the best way through. Leading off to
the north is a wide passage which seems to be going
somewhere. But to get to it you will have to cross the
caver, and crossing the cavern is not an inviting
prospect. For in the cavern wall to your right are two
caves, and in a neat pile outside the first cave is a
mound of bones — some broken, some just chewed.
But judging from the size of some of the bones,
whatever was eating them was no mere Half-Orc.
Will you head for the caves to attack whatever is
inside (turn to 88), or will you simply cross the
cavern and see what happens (turn to 430)?

78
You watch each guard in turn and wait until they are
preoccupied with whipping the miserable crea-
tures, when you are able to move slowly across the
vast chamber unnoticed. But as luck would have it,
a small creature turns a corner round the rock and
bumps straight into you! You both jumpin surprise.
But then your lips curl back and a delighted growl
comes from your throat. Your tongue licks lustily
round your mouth as you grab the unfortunate

79

Hobbit that has walked straight into your clutches!
Its screams are quickly silenced, but not before the
guards are aware of your appearance in the mine.
They surround you, brandishing their bullwhips,
and you are trapped. The penalty for you is not
death — though some would consider death more
merciful. Killing you would be a wasted opportun-
ity. You are much more useful spending the rest of

your life toiling as a slave in the mines of Zharradan
Marr.

79
You rush across to the secret entrance and find

yourself bathed once more in the eerie green light.
The instant you step into the passageway, the door
slams shut behind you and this is much to your
telief, as you were anxious to leave the mysterious
room. The passage continues ina westerly direction
until you arrive at a junction. A sign is tacked to the
wall and an arrow on it points westwards. There isa
message on the sign which reads: ‘Yfllp wst pnfe
mjnfs eth jsiwby.’ The other passage leads to the
south. A few paces down it is a small pile of bones —
or rather a pile of small bones. They look like human
bones, but from a creature much smaller than a
human, You must now decide which way to con-
hnue. Will you head west (turn to 142) or south
(turn to 273)?

80-81

80

You step through the door and your claws clatter
along the rocky walls as you feel your way. Stagger-
ing slowly along the passageway, you shake your
head from side to side in an attempt to rid yourself
of the affliction. You reach a bend in the passage
where the wall turns to the right. Suddenly your
foot steps forward on to nothing! Before you can
stop yourself, you are falling uncontrollably down,
down into what seems to be a deep pit. You prepare
yourself for a heavy landing, but instead you con-
tinue to fall. Eventually the speed becomes too
much for you. Consciousness fades and you never
awaken. Your life has mercifully ended here before
you were able to discover who — or what — lay in store
for you at the bottom of the Blackmouth
Floortrap .. .

81
The passage turns to the left and you follow it for
some time until you feel that perhaps this corridor
has no end! Eventually you see a particularly dark
area straight ahead. Will you investigate, or would
you rather turn round and go back? If you would
rather go back, tum to 279. If you want to investi-
gate the area, turn to 20.

82-83

82

You remain at the Testing Grounds, learning what
you can about the ways of war. While you are being
trained, you are well fed on Hobbit broth. Restore
your STAMINA fo its Initial level, increase your
Initial SKILL by 2 points and increase your current
SKILL to this level. But you have taken a dislike to
the foul-breathed Half-Troll and you are already
scheming how to catch him unawares. Finally, your
opportunity comes one night when you spy him
walking in the courtyard. You leave the castle and
creep up on him. When the opportunity presents
itself, you attack! Resolve this combat:

THUGRUFF

If you manage to reduce him to a STAMINA of 4,
turn to 305.

SKILL 11 STAMINA 14

83
Your situation is hopeless, With nothing to grasp to
pull you from the mud, you cannot hope to do
anything but struggle vainly as you sink deeper into
your grave. The mud reaches your chest, then your
neck, then begins to fill your mouth and nose. You
take your last breath . . .

84-85

84

Though particularly rocky underfoot, the passage is
far preferable to the cold, muddy slime. A short
distance along the corridor, you come to a door
which is firmly closed. Although its timbers do not
look too strong, a quick shove from your elbow has
no effect. From slight gaps both underneath the
door and in the timber panels you can see a flashing
light coming from within the room. The flashing is
irregular and is accompanied by no sound. Will you
smash the door to investigate (turn to 268), or would
you prefer to return to the main passageway and
head north through the dark slime instead (turn to
232)?

85

You turn round and pass through the arch. There
are four others in the chamber, You choose another
and peer into its gloomy depths. You can see
nothing. You pluck up courage, step inside and
feel around. It appears to be empty. Your hand
touches a rocky wall at the back of the alcove. There
is no point in investigating it Further. The other
alcoves are similar and you decide to leave the
chamber. Turn to 405.

86-87

86

When you have finally killed the little creature, you
must turn your attention to the other two humans.
While you have been battling their companion, they
have been preparing to attack. The red-robed figure
is facing you, pointing the little finger of each hand
at you and mumbling. The shiny human has
grabbed a sword — similar, you remember, to the
Dwarf’s, but larger — and is shouting to the other:
‘Cpn tr plojt simjn dishbmbn! Jim by abfeb blfe tp
olf bda vsu tpothb taswj nf bfbr dacvr!’ You cannot
fight both at once. Which will you direct your atten-
ton towards? Roll one die. If you roll 1-4, you
decide to take on the shining figure (turn to 48). If
you roll 5 or 6, you turn towards the man in the red
robes (turn to 292).

87

They chase after you, hurling their stones and abuse
until you are well out of their field. Luckily, no
stones hit you and you are soon out of range. You
continue along the path, which winds towards a
spreading forest, until you reach a sign which reads:
‘Knot Oak Wood’. The path leads deep into the
forest and you follow it. Turn to 244.

88-89

88

You creep up to the first cave and peer inside. It is
dark and you can see little. But the thing that strikes
you immediately is the smell of rotten flesh! What-
ever lives in here certainly has a large appetite for
meat. You poke your head further into the cave and
vou can see a large furry ball heaving up and down
in one corner. You step forward to catch the sleep-
ing creature unawares. But your foot kicks a loose
stone and sends it scuttling across the cave towards
it. The creature shudders, awakens and gets up. By
now you have already decided to attack and you are
virtually on top of the creature as its face turns
towards you.

There is a look of pure fury in its ghostly white eyes
as the Devourer opens its mouth to defend itself.
Two layers of jagged, bloodstained teeth part and
sink into the scales of your arm. You howl and
spring back out of its clutches (lose 2 STAMINA
points for the bite). The creature is as tall as you and
as bulky, but has a shaggy, furry body. You must
resolve your fight with the creature:

DEVOURER SKILL 10 STAMINA 8
If you defeat it, turn to 41.

89
You rest for a few moments to catch your breath and
then you survey the room. Your curiosity over-
comes you, and you begin to investigate the seven
bodies in the room. The pug-faced Orcs are dirty
and smelly. You try a mouthful of flesh, but spit it
go

out in disgust. Around their waists they carry small
bags which, when ripped open, send a shower of
small bones flying across the room. The two adven-
turers are not much more interesting. Similar
‘ pouches contain those round pieces of shiny metal
which you came across before. They scatter on the
floor and you ignore them. The pack on the back of
the adventurer in the winged helmet is decorated
and attracts your attention. One of the straps breaks
as you rip it off his back and grope clumsily inside:
you feel something sotid. As you fumble angrily
with the rucksack, a hard wooden casket drops to
the ground and falls open! Inside is a clear smooth
flask which contains swirling purple gas. Your
curiosity is captured and your huge clawed hand
tries to grasp the delicate flask. But this turns out to
be hopeless. Eventually, you pick up the casket and
drop it on the ground. As luck would have it, the
flask jumps in its cradle and lands in such a way that
the stopper flips out of the flask! The purple gas
within swirls tempestuously and its vapours seep
slowly from the neck of the flask. Turn to 382.

go
You growl defiantly at the voice. The four lights
flicker and extinguish. Almost immediately a back-
ground luminosity begins to light up the area and
you can see where you are. The room you are in is
large and appears to be quite important, judging by
the rich drapes and gilt-framed paintings which
hang on the walls. The scenes depicted in the paint-
mgs seem to be of Hell itself. The four faces you saw

go

are elaborate carvings in a soft clay-like material.
Standing before you is a tall, gruesome creature
dressed in a flowing black cape. Two red eyes shine
out from the depths of its hood. Darramouss turns
to speak to you:

‘You are a recent arrival in these dungeons,’ he says,
‘You are a fine specimen and are a credit to your
creator, Zharradan Marr. Yes, this is so. You have
been created by Marr and created for a purpose.
Zharradan Marr and his physician, Quimmel Bone,
are obsessed with marrangha — the re-formation of
life. They continually experiment with the effects of
potions and spells on creatures. Some they merely
transform from one type into another. Others they
create from preserved organs. Their experiments are
not always successful, but when one does succeed,
it is sent to me here for observation before its future
is finally decided. A future has been decided for
you, though I know not what it is. This is of no
concern to me. But your immediate duty is my
concern. You must be put to work in the Yellow-
stone Mines. But I will offer you one other alterna-
tive. If you do not wish to work in the mines until
Marr calls for you, you may choose another future
for yourself: Death!’

His final word turns into a chilling laugh which
resounds around the room. You set your teeth and
glare at the creature. You will not be ordered what to
do! ‘I take it, then, that you choose my second
alternative!’ he says, opening a book on the desk.
He begins to read something from it aloud. Will you

gt—g2

step over and grab him by his neck (turn to 402),
wait to see what happens next (turn to 286), or try to
escape down the secret passage in the west wall
(turn to 384)?

g1
There are 3 Gold Pieces lying on the ground next to
the creature’s body. You may take these with you. If
you want to eat the creature, take it with you out of
the village and eat it at your leisure for 4 STAMINA
points of nourishment. Leave the village of Coven
by turning to 107.

92
You continue along the trail. By now it is getting
quite dark and a full moon is rising in the sky. You
decide to sleep for the night beneath a spreading
tree at the side of the road. You soon drift off to
sleep.

You are tormented that night with a vivid dream.
The three witch-women have returned. Each has

hold of one of your limbs and is pulling it, The.

women possess tremendous strength and you feel
as if you are being torn apart by the foul creatures.
One of them seems to be trying to keep you from the
other two, who are cackling gleefully: ‘Ours! The
creature shall be ours! To Dree for marrangha it
must go!’ The other is pulling your arm. ‘No!’ she
screams. ‘It shall not be! You shall have the creature
only if it fails to bring us the Sculliweed"’ Finally the
three release their grip. ‘The root! The root!’ they
chant. ‘Give us the root!’

93

You wake up in a cold sweat. The tree is being
blown by wind. A howling sound whistles through
the branches and another sound mixes with it:
Whoooo! Whooo! Psssh! Rhooo! Rhooot! Pssssh! Root!
Root! The root! The root! The sound fills your ears and
you spin round to see the grinning faces of the three
Women of Dree! They are asking for the root. Do
you have any plants with you? If so, you will have
noted down a number. Add the number to this
reference and turn to the new reference. If you do
not have any plants with you, turn to 222.

93

You reach down with your hand to help him to his
feet. But as you move, the little creature strikes and
his sword cuts into your forearm. Luckily the tough
scales prevent it from doing any real harm, but
you must still lose 2 STAMINA points. Considering
your size in comparison to his, his action was
understandable!

Now, instead of reaching for his arm, your hand
opens and grips the Dwarf’s neck. You struggle to
control your actions, but to no avail. Your sharp
talons dig into the unfortunate creature's flesh. His
eyes bulge and he tries to scream. Frantically, he
hits you again with the sword, but the blow lacks
power. Deduct 1 more STAMINA point. Then his
body goes limp.

Your tremendous strength put the poor creature out
of its misery, but the incident has left you feeling
very strange. Although you wished to help the

94

Dwarf, you have helped him only to an early grave.
Will you put these thoughts out of your mind and
leave the area (turn to 248), will you try to hide the
body (turn to 228), or will you examine the body
(turn to 399)?

94
You creep up behind one of the trucks and join a
team of creatures who are pushing it. Suddenly a
guard with a bullwhip taps you on the shoulder.
You suspect trouble and tense yourself for battle.

But the guard has not spotted you as an impostor. |

He is simply motioning for you to leave the truck
you are pushing and move over to another one
which has to be pushed in a different direction. You
shuffle over to the truck. A rather emaciated Troll is
your only partner. You and the Troll, coaxed by a
guard who is clearly waiting for an excuse to use his
bullwhip, push the truck through the cavern, along
2 tunnel, past a side tunnel to the left and towards
an opening. Light enters the tunnel through the
opening.

But just as you reach the opening, the long-
suffering Troll collapses; the effort has been too
much for him. The guard seizes his opportunity and
his bullwhip flashes! Although this has no effect on
the unconscious Troll, the sting of the whip cer-
tainly has an effect on you. Your fury turns to pain
and fear, and one thought is prominent in your
mind. You must keep pushing the truck! You shove it
with such force that it launches itself through the
opening and out into mid-air! For an instant you

95

recognize the ledge and the steps down which you
entered the mines. But only for an instant, since
your momentum has carried you after the truck!
You look down at the filthy Bilgewater below. Ina
few seconds, you will be entering its depths at a
speed which will ensure your death on impact . . .

95

Just a short distance south of the building and the
graveyard lies the peasant village of Coven, whose
imhabitants live in constant fear of the evil that
surrounds them — the growing power of Zharradan
Marr and his ruthless henchmen and the devilry of
Dree, haven of witchcraft. Its buildings are basic
and the main route into the village is dusty and
bumpy. There is nothing to suggest anything but
poverty. As you follow the trail, villagers are going
about their daily business ahead of you. But when
they see you, they rush quickly away and hide in
their wooden shacks. Eyes watch you from within
the hovels, but no one dares venture into the street.
Some of the huts have signs above them. One reads
‘Provisions’ and another reads ‘Medicine-Man’.
Will you see what you can get in the way of pro-
visions (turn to 32), visit the medicine-man (turn to
211), or will you leave Coven along a street leading
west (turn to 274)?

—

96-97
96

In the distance ahead you can see the bleak wastes
of Windward Plain. But before the plain, you reacha
junction where another trail crosses your own. You
may continue west (turn to 177), or you may turn
north (turn to 130) or south (turn to 330).

97
The jars contain the eyeballs, brains, hearts and

limbs of all sorts of animals. A jar half full of yellow
liquid has in it a red lump of flesh the size of
your finger and is labelled: ‘Firebreath organ -
Hellhound’. Another jar contains an organ which is
smaller and green in colour. This one is labelled:
‘Invisibility organ — Snattacat’. Suddenly your con-
centration is broken. ‘Do you find my specimens

. interesting?’ says a strange voice, talking in a
series of clicks. You turn round in the direction of
the voice, towards the desk. ‘No doubt you have
come here for some medical advice,’ says the
skeletal figure sitting behind it, teeth chattering
excitedly. The hanging skeleton has disappeared —
or rather is now sitting at the desk. ‘Iam Quimmel
Bone, physician and surgeon on the Galleykeep.
Now, what do you want in here?’ Will you spring
over to attack him (turn to 31), or will you pretend
you have some ailment which you would like him to
treat (turn to 297)?

98-99

98
Resolve your combat with the dark-skinned guard:
GUARD

B you defeat him, turn to 349.

SKILL 9 STAMINA 10

99
Angry and ‘frustrated, you snatch the rope and jerk

@ towards yourself. It offers litttle resistance,
although the faint click you hear would have warned
am astute human adventurer. It was caused by the
hair-trigger springing on the deadly trap which has
mow taken you by surprise. The trigger has released
zazor-edged spears from the two side walls. Even
your tough scaly skin cannot defend you against
them, and your body is riddled with a dozen spears.

As quickly as they appeared, the spears slide neatly
out of your lifeless body and disappear back into the
walls. You slump to the ground. Eventually your
Siood will dry and your flesh will decompose like
Sat of the previous victims of the Dark Elves’ grim
Deathspear Trap.

100-101

100
The rolls of parchment are meaningless to you. You
step up to the desk and grab one which is open. But
as you touch it, a loud noise startles you. You wheel
round and your eyes widen as you see a hideous
beast taking shape in the corner, materializing out
of thin air! It is taller and bulkier than you, and its
rough skin looks to be made, not out of living flesh,
but out of the rock itself! Its huge fists are covered in
irregular bumps and its eyes glare at you in fury
from its wide-mouthed face. The Rock Demon you
are facing takes a step towards you and you must
quickly decide what to do. The creature looks much
i ———— more powerful than you are. Will you battle the
° Demon (turn to 327), or will you escape from the

tle ! room? If you choose to escape, you may head either
We for the door in the east wall (turn to 365) or the door
bea in the south wall, through which you entered (turn
tO 450).
101

The door cracks under the force of your blow. Ahole
appears and you np the timbers away until itis large
enough for you to pass through. Torches are
mounted on the wall of the room inside and there
are two doors, one to the east and one to the west.
There is no furniture to speak of, but some remains—
perhaps of a table and chair — litter the floor among a
thin covering of dirty straw. The wood has been
broken in what appears to have been a furious
battle, the result of which lies before you.

ToT

In the centre of the room is a familiar sight. Casting
your mind back to the battle you have just won, you
recognize the figure of an armoured Knight lying
face down in the straw. His face is hidden under an
elegant helmet decorated with wings coming from
above each ear. A dark-bladed sword has entered
his body through a gap in his armour between his
arm and shoulder. Lying next to the Knight are
three other figures. One is similar in stature, but
wears a tough leather tunic and helmet. A bloody
stain around his belly indicates how this adventurer
came to grief. The other two figures are not so
familiar. They are shorter than the others, and are
dressed in armour of scaly brown hide. They have
gnarled, pug-nosed faces with vicious teeth set in
their lower jaws. Ail four bodies are long dead.

You step forward to get a better look. Suddenly
you hear a chomping sound coming from some-
where in the room — in fact several places — but you
cannot see anything which might make such a
noise. Your eyes pass over the adventurer in leather
armour and you suddenly freeze: while you are
watching, a chunk of flesh disappears from his thigh! You
watch incredulously for a few moments more. Not
only does more flesh disappear from the adventur-
er’s leg, but you also notice the body of one of the
pug-nosed creatures twitch as its forearm suddenly
loses a fleshy lump! This scene is worrying and
you must decide what to do next. Roll one die. If you
roll 1, 2 or 3, you decide to investigate the bodies
further (turn to 234). If you roll 4, 5 or 6, you head
quickly for the door to the east (turn to 168).

102

102

You quicken your pace away from the strange,
misshapen tree, glancing over your shoulder as you
Fan. But you run straight into something solid. You
Ibse consciousness momentarily and drop to the
ground, to be awakened seconds later by a tickling
sensation around your head and _ shoulders.
Another tree, as dead as the first, stands in the
centre of the path and you ran straight into it! When
wou discover the source of the tickling, you recoil in
horror. Asif being blown by some unholy wind, the
tree’s branches are wafting towards you, gradually
drooping lower and lower. The tips are now around
your face and neck and they are trying to get a grip!
You cannot understand how the scrawny tree, with
as long-dead branches, can have such powers and
you instinctively roll out of its reaches. At that
moment its eyes flick open . . .

The Tree Spirit’s knotted, hollow eyes pierce your
mind and hold you powerless before it. Under its
will you take a step nearer to it, then another. Your
foot kicks a rock and you wince in pain, and break
free of the creature’s gaze! You turn to run from the
Tree Spirit, but only then do you realize the hope-
Jess situation you are in. More of the creatures have
dosed around you in a circle. Each way you look,
your escape-route is blocked. Turn to 434.

103-104

103
The Elves become especially agitated and all fo
turn on you. One of them is more courageous tha
the rest and tells you to ‘Sniff for filth in an Orc’
latrine!’ (mind your own business). This is igh
talk and to ignore this insult would be a sign
weakness. The Elf is ready to do battle:

ELF SKILL 7 STAMINA 6

If you would rather not fight the Elf, turn to 243.
you do accept the challenge and defeat the Elf, tu
to 27.

104
You glance from arch to arch, trying to decide
whether to investigate them. The stillness is u
nerving. Whatever happened to the voices y
heard? As if in answer to your question, a sound
drifts out from one of the alcoves: “Pvf rehfrf. Cpm
fep vfrehfr fe jfiypvu wb nta tpolf bmapfog rf bta 7
chfs ejn ithfs fe pbrts. Dpoy pvu nptov ndf rstb nd
ath fehvm bnatpn gvf? Pf rhb psa thfneypvus pf
bkat hfetrpl lolbn g vbgf. C’rgga gvonusoog mg
pa’sthwag ig thaan’g. Va n‘oigg? What about this? Is
that better? Ah, yes. I can tell you understand me.
Look, I can help you. Maybe you would like me to
direct you to a tasty morsel? Two fat Hobbits? Or
shall I tell you about he who knows all your secrets?
I speak, of course, of Zharradan Marr. Come, talk to
me.

You are stunned to silence by the voice speaking to
you in your own tongue. It is inviting you towards

105-106

one of the arches. Will you enter and speak to the
being within? Or are you suspicious of this strange
voice? If you enter the arch and talk to the owner of
the voice, turn to 323. If you wish to leave, turn

to 405.

105
You ignore the creature and tum your attention
once more back to the tapestry which hangs on the
walls. Then a hand-—a cold, clammy hand with bony
fingers — lands on your shoulder! You spin round
and stare into the face of a long-dead Zombie,
whose decaying flesh is being eaten away by grubs.
The figure on the floor has risen to avenge your
attack! Your gaze has been captured by the crea-
ture’s eyes, which are far from dead. The flames you
saw are burning even brighter now. Suddenly, two
streams of fire streak from its eyes and burn into
your own! You scream in agony at the pain from
your blinded eyes, and a slow smile spreads across
the creature’s face of death. It has only just begun its
attack. Your death will be slow and painful.

106
This plant has mysterious properties. You may or
may not get the opportunity to find out what it can
be used for. If asked to present this plant to some-
one later in the adventure, remember the number
forty-nine, Now you may leave the river-bank by
turning to 18.

107-108

107
You continue along the trail which leads out from
Coven. It winds past a disused building, now most-
ly rubble, and sweeps round in a northerly direc-
tion. Eventually you come to a crossroads where
you may turn either west (turn to 177) or east (turn
to 203), or continue northwards (turn to 130).

108

You must stoop to enter this tunnel and you inch
forward, feeling the walls ahead with your hands.
The ground underfoot is becoming wet and each
footstep comes down with a splash. Then you lose
your footing and slip down a muddy slide, until
eventually you land up to your chest in what feels to
be a pool of thick mud. You try in vain to drag
yourself from the pool.

The movement is almost impercepuble at first. But
without doubt, something smooth and slimy is
working its way up your body. And as more of the
mud seems to join in the flow, you realize that this
creature is very large! Finally the muddy surface
breaks and a jelly-like blob is crawling up your chest
and neck, drawing the mud behind it. You try to
slash it with your claws to keep it away from your
face, but your hands pass through the creature as if
they were passing through the mud itself. It reaches
your mouth and nose and flows deep down your
throat and up your nostrils. You cough and splutter,
trying desperately to take gulps of air, but it is
hopeless. The Mud Slime whose lair you have fallen
into cannot be defeated with your bare hands. It

109

kills its prey by suffocation. When your breath runs
out and you slide deep down into the mud pool, it
will digest your body at its leisure.

109
You sit down once more next to the Orc’s carcass
and begin snapping off the bones to clean every
sliver of flesh from them. But there is little meat left
on the body. What you do manage to eat does
something to abate your hunger and your attention
turns back to the door. No matter how you try,
however, there appears to be no way through it.

Hours turn into days, which you spend alone,
frustrated and starving, in the room. On the third
day, a young Dark Elf arrives at the door and pushes
it open. Relieved to have found a way out of the
room, you spring up from the seat towards the
door. But you so frighten the Elf that he flees from
the room in terror, slamming the door shut behind
him! No, you think. That is not the way to escape.
When the next creature arrives, you must remain
motionless until you can seize your opportunity to
attack. Unfortunately for you, however, you are
becoming weaker and weaker through lack of food.
Your skin is being stretched across your skull and
your eyes are bulging. When another creature
arrives in the room, you will doubtless be too weak
to put up a decent fight . . .

.
eeeeeerterr ti bea

THN Hee

110-111

110
You have chosen a crystal club. It is not valuable
but, to your way of thinking, itis a beautiful trophy.
However, it is quite brittle. If at some time in the
future you wish to use it ina battle, turn to reference
333 to find out what happens. But you must remem-
ber the number of the reference you are on at the
time you choose to use the club, so you may return
there afterwards. Now leave the chamber and turn
to 257 to continue your journey.

111
The room you walk into is large but cluttered with
innumerable items of a biological nature. Book-
shelves line one wall to your right, while the wall
opposite this is brimming with specimen jars.
Straight ahead is a large porthole in the wall, letting
ample light into the room, and there is a desk
beneath the porthole. A bell rests on the desk
among the papers and books, next to a long quill. To
one side of the desk a human skeleton is hanging on
a hook; to the other is a selection of anatomical
charts pinned to the wall. There is a door to the
right. Will you examine the desk (turn to 69)? Will
you ring the bell on the desk (turn to 236)? Or will
you examine the specimens in the specimen jars
(turn to g7)?
112-114

112

Alas, this choice will do you no good. Having never
come across keys or locks before, you have no way
of knowing what a key would look like or what you
should do with it! In any case, your large, clumsy
fingers could never manage to insert a small key and
turn it. Unless you wish to try battering the door
down (turn to 128), you have reached the end of
your journey.

113

You rush to the door and grab the handle. ‘Simple
creature,’ says the figure in its gurgling voice. ‘You
have the audacity to disturb my rest and believe you
can simply run away from my wrath? You will pay
the penalty. You will learn the real meaning of
suffering!’ The handle freezes in your hand. It will
not budge! Turn to 143.

114
You follow the trail until you reach another clearing.
Turn to 315.

115-116

115
Before you finally leave the adventurers, you may
decide to feed on them. If you do, you gain 4
STAMINA points. Then you continue. Allis silent as
you walk carefully along the passage. Eventually,
your ears pick up the sound of running water, and
the air becomes moist and cool. The sensation
would be quite refreshing if it were not for an
unpleasant smell, which gets stronger as the sound
of the water becomes louder. Soon you find yourself
on a ledge in the face of a rocky cliff. Looking out,
you can see you are high over a vast cavern through
which a river flows. Leading down from your ledge
into the centre of the cavern is a flight of rough-cut
stairs. This precarious staircase spans the river and
is the only way onwards, but the thought of de-
scending the stairs is not one which fills you with
enthusiasm. The narrow steps have been made for
human-sized feet and your large pads will make
your descent awkward. The smeil, which was un-
pleasant before, is now horrendous and seems to be
coming from the river itself. Its waters are murky
brown and the smell of excrement and decay is
overpowering. Nevertheless, your only way on is
downwards, so down you must go. Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, turn to 166. If you are Unlucky, turn

to 71.

116
The door leads to a passage which takes you west
until you reach a T-junction where you decide to
turn north, Turn to 144

117-118

117
You hold up the Ring of Truth. When he sees it, the
white-haired Elf begins to shift uneasily. ‘Look,
er...’ he stammers, ‘I made a mistake. Pah! My
memory! Getting worse, it is. I have been banished
from Stittle Woad for — well, it’s a silly thing really —
for talking to a friend. I suppose he did happen to be
one of Zharradan Marr's legionnaires, but he was a
friend to me. At least I thought he was until he
abused my friendship. And when | invited him to
my village . . .’ He is becoming quite distressed and
does not want to tell you any more. He makes his
way off into the woods. Turn to 4174.

118 ~

‘A fine display,’ says Thugruff, nodding. “You will
be a valuable addition to the legions. Come with me
and I’ll see you get some food. If I remember right,
Hobbits are a favourite of your kind, no? Or maybe
you'd prefer to meet some of the other legionnaires.
Make this place your home. But watch out for the
Rhino-Men. Thick as Zombie blood, they are. And
dangerous as Dragon breath!’ What do you want to
do? If you want to eat, turn to 216. If you would
prefer to mingle with the others, turn to 157.

119-120

119
‘What!’ screams the witch with glazed eyes. ‘We
asked for Sculliweed, not for the Fishbait Flower!
We cannot prepare our Potions of Fortune with
Fishbait!’ Turn to 222.

120
You set off quietly through the undergrowth and
give the creature a wide berth. It stops and cranes its
sctawny neck around as you rustle through some
bushes, but then resumes its drinking when it can
see nothing. Further downstream you rejoin the
river and follow it onwards. Turn to 388.

121

121

The necromancer continues: ‘I have been develop-
ing marrangha for many years now. Previously, my
successes have been limited to vermin — rats to
Jib-Jibs, mice to Graunies, and the like. You and
your colleagues were my first successes with higher
animals. Never before had I managed to transmute
a human. And into such a fine creature, as you will
doubtless agree.” You are shocked into a stunned
silence. A human! And what of these colleagues that
Marr is speaking of?

‘My experiments, at least the ones which survive,
are carefully studied and then preserved in the
dungeon beneath the village of Coven. All my cre-
ations are sent there so that we can assess their
abilities. You and your crew were transported
there.’ Your crew? What does he mean? Thoughts
are racing through your mind. Some are vague and
others are being sparked off as your memory is
jolted by his words. Your eyes dart round the room,
at the desk, the bed, the wardrobe. It is all starting to
come back! Marr smiles slyly.

‘I see it is coming back to you now,’ he continues,
‘You recognize this room. A little dusty now, and a
little untidy, but it is as you left it.’ Your head is
spinning. Everything around you is now so fam-
iliar. ‘T regret that your officers have not fared so
well, Remember Ligge, the first mate? He took the
form of a Blood Orc and was placed in charge of the
blind fool, Hannicus..And Burgon the cook? You
ran into him soon enough, The fat man was trans-

122

formed into a Hobbit. He joined up with a Shaman
amd a Strongarm. I think you will remember run-
ming into them.’ By now you are in a state of utter
wonfusion as your past comes back to you. And after
aH this time you are back in your own private
quarters! Turn to 199.

122

You follow the passage eastwards, peering ahead as
the glowstones flick on to light your way. Eventu-
ally you arrive at two doors and you listen for any
clues as to what may be beyond. No noise comes
from behind the door in the north wall. But there are
definite sounds coming from behind the door in the
east wall. A heavy breathing is unmistakable and is
interrupted by loud snorts. This sounds ominous. If
You wish to try the door in the north wall, turn to
154. If instead you decide to charge the door in the
east wall, turn to 263.

123

123
You walk towards the old building, still in awe of
your new surroundings. As you approach, you can
hear voices inside. They are faint at first, but the
closer you get, the clearer their words become.
‘Tonight is the night, sisters of Romeena!’ cackles
one of the voices. ‘When will it come?’ shrieks
another, gleefully. ‘Quiet!’ snaps a third. ‘Its
presence is close! I can feel it!’ You step up to the
door of the building and shove it aside. Screams
come from the three women within. But not
screams of terror; these are more like screams of
excitement!

The three old women are dressed in tattered rags.
Each has long white hair and a stubbly chin, and
rubs her wrinkled hands together in anticipation.
They are human-like, but smaller. These three ugly
witches are the Women of Dree. ‘Come in, come in,
friend,’ beckons one, who is blind. ‘We have been
waiting for you.’ ‘Yes!’ says another, whose mouth
is toothless and black. ‘We are the Women of Dree.
Weare to help you fulfil your destiny!’ The third one
steps forward and speaks with a voice which hisses
like a serpent: ‘Yesss, missserable creature — sss! We
know what you are and who you are — sss — though
you do not. The godsss have chosen usss to be
instrumental — sss — in your dessstiny. We cannot
control your action — sss — for you mussst make the
final choice. But we can ssshape your dessstiny
through our knowledge - sss — and we will watch
your progressss!’ ‘Yes!’ adds the blind woman.

124

‘Have you not wondered why one such as you is
able to take such steps of wisdom as would befit
none less than a scholar?’ The three hags turn to one
another and chuckle like naughty children. Finally
they turn to you.

‘But before we tell of your destiny,’ starts the black-
mouthed witch, ‘there is something you must do for
us. Sleep tonight and awaken fresh on the morrow.
Then set off on a search for us. Bring us what we
need for our potions. Bring us Sculliweed root! For
this we will tell you what you must know. We will
join you on the night of the full moon.’ With those
words, the women once more begin their cackling,
which is beginning to annoy you. You step forward
but, before you can reach them, they have faded to
nothing! As silence spreads through the building,
leaving only the night sounds outside, you reflect
on their words. Will you take up their quest? Or
would you rather ignore them and make your own
way in life? If you wish to undertake their quest,
turn to 324. If you want another destiny, turn to 44.

124
Rhino-Men are rather dull, bumbling creatures, not
known for sharpness of wit. Orcs, on the other hand
are more quick-thinking and cannot resist the
opportunity to torment. Thus the argument turns
into a brawl, as one of the Orcs pushes the Rhino-
Man to the limits of his temper. But before any
damage has been done, Thugruff appears with
armed guards to break up the fight. The two groups

125-127

are separated. Thugruff takes you aside and into the
aastle for some food. Turn to 216.

125
“This is Rosina’s cottage,’ announces Grog. ‘She'll
be able to help. But you'll need some money to pay
ber with, so here’s 2 Gold Pieces. Go inside. I'll
wait here.’ You take the coins and then you must de-
cide what to do. Return to 177 to make your choice.

126

You leave the ruins and continue along the path,
heading further into the wood. The path becomes
quite overgrown and it is evidently not used much.
You reach a point where the overgrowth is so thick
that the path continues through a sort of tunnel.
Yines and creepers droop from the overhanging
bush. If you were half your size, you would be able
#0 nip through it quite easily. But you will have to
crawl] along it. Do you wish to get down on your
knees and follow the path (turn to 343), or will you
leave the path and make your way through the
wood (turn to 57)?

127
You creep forward until you are quite close to the
creature. As you stand there motionless, patiently
waiting for the right moment, a bird flutters down
to land ona bush in front of you. You must now de-
cide how you will approach the Ophidiotaur that
vou have encountered. Roll two dice. If the number
rolled equals or exceeds your SKILL, turn to 238.
if the number is lower than your SKILL, turn to 5.

128-130

128

You charge into the door. It clangs loudly, but does
not budge. This only angers you even further and
you try again. But once more the door shows no sign
of weakening. You, on the other hand, have hurt
your arm and must lose 1 STAMINA point. If you
wish to keep trying, turn to 150. Otherwise you may
look for a key (turn to 112)

129
The door has no handle. You try shoving against it.
At first, the door will not budge, but then you heara
small click and your next push is successful. You
step into the room and close the door behind you.
Again you hear the click as the door swings to. The
room has a porthole, but curtains have been pulled
across it, so the room is dark. In the centre of the
room is a large stately chair with ornate carvings on
its legs and on its high back. A silent figure is sitting
on the chair, wrapped in an elaborate red cape. Its
eyes are closed and it is motionless. In one corner of
the room is a pile of scattered bones. What will you
do:

Investigate the figure on the chair? Turn to 452
Search through the pile of bones? Turn to 64
Turn round and leave the room? Turn to 347

130
You follow the trail northwards. By now it is becom-
ing quite dark. The setting sun gives way to a bnght
moon which is almost full. Eventually you decide to

131-132

rest for the night, and you settle down to sleep
behind a large boulder. The night passes peacefully
and you may gain 4 STAMINA points for the rest.
The next morming you continue northwards until
you reach a fork in the path. A signpost stands by
the side of the road. The way to the south is sign-
posted to ‘Dree ++". To the north-west, the signpost
reads ‘Coven’ and to the north-east it reads ‘Bu Fon
Fen’. Will you follow the trail to the north-west (turn
to 190) or the north-east (turn to 134)?

131

The shopkeeper is amazed when you offer him the
gold coin. He shuffles diligently around the shop,
gathering together for you a generous collection of
provisions. You receive two strips of dried wildcat
meat, a bag full of Jimweed root from the sack on the
counter, a skin of mulled wine and a fresh loaf of
corn bread. You then leave his shop, and sit down
outside to eat. Add 4 STAMINA points for the meal
and continue out of the village by turning to 374.

132
Had you been a little more observant, you would
have noticed how the footprints all avoided the
centre of the clearing. As you step towards your
chosen trail, your foot sinks deep into mud. This
happens too quickly for you to pull yourself back
and, to your horror, you find yourself sinking deep
into the muddy swamp! There is nothing around for
you to grab hold of. If you have a length of rope,
turn to 23. If not, turn to 83.

133-134

133

Marr's eyes open wide. “But you may not refuse!’
His anger is mounting. ‘For I am your creator! You
may not defy me. Do you not think that, if my
power is sufficient to create you, it is also sufficient
to punish you? Very well. I give you a glimpse of the
living Hell I may make you suffer.’ His eyes roll
backwards and he mumbles a few incomprehen-
sible words, pointing his hands out of the mirror at
you. You wait apprehensively to see what happens.
Did you bathe in the magical Elven Dust? If so, turn
to 417. If not, turn to 16.

134
The trail eventually merges with another. You fol-
low it over hills and a rickety wooden bridge which
spans a fast-flowing river. Eventually you arrive at
the outskirts of a gloomy village. No one seems to
take much notice as you arrive. It strikes you that all
the humans seem to be aged women. They are a
dirty lot, wrapped in tattered shawls, and they spit
and scratch as they talk to one another, ignoring the
scenes of chaos around them. For the other inhabi-
tants are a cacophony of strange creatures — hunch-
backed, misshapen, mutilated, wretched things
that grub about in the dusty gutters looking for
scraps of food. Some hop, some hobble, some can-
not move at all and are dying in the street. One
legless creature pulls itself towards you by its hands
and grabs your ankle. Its bleeding fingers are in-
flamed and septic and you quickly kick it away. An
ugly old crone comes from her hut and flings

a) «| eee

135

a bucket of stinking sewage into the street.
Immediately, the contents are being devoured
ferociously by a dozen of the accursed creatures.

The sight repulses you. Looking around, you notice
also that the place seems to be unnaturally dingy.
The prevailing colour is black; all homes and clothes
— and even the creatures — are black. Dust hangs
heavy in the air, and is continually being stirred up
by the filthy creatures which live and die in the
gutter. It is with some reluctance that the sun shines
at all in the cursed village of Dree.

But your anonymity is comforting. You continue
towards the centre of town, where many of the old
women are milling around a street market. By the
side of the market, performers are showing off their
acts. You head towards them, but before you reach
the market, you hear a woman’s voice calling to you
from behind. Will you stop to see what she wants? if
so turn to 210. If you want to continue towards the
market, turn to 35.

135

You withdraw your claws and hold your hands out
in a sort of gesture of submission. The creature’s
knife rises once more . . . and stabs downwards!
This time the blow lands in the centre of your
shadow’s chest and you collapse in a heap on the
floor. The evil spirit has no comprehension of truce.
It knows only that it must bring death to any living
thing it encounters. For this is the way of the
Shadow Stalker.

136-139

136
The passage heads north for no more than a few
paces before meandering off in a north-easterly
direction. Undisturbed layers of dust and dirt on
the floor indicate that this corridor is little used.
Eventually, the passage straightens and heads east.
You soon come to a junction where you may either
continue east (turn to 373) or turn to the north (turn

to 404).

137
Bewildered by your experience, you wander off
north along a main passageway. You soon reach a
junction where you must decide whether to con-
tinue north (turn to 144) or turn east (tum to 204).

138
You turn south outside the door and head down to
the next door. There is no other way onwards. You
open the door. Turn to 15.

139

You follow the path carefully, watching the way
ahead. It seems to lead straight into the heart of the
forest and the foliage gets denser as you continue.
You come across a building in ruins, apparently a
house in days long gone. The doorway remains,
however, and a coat of arms decorates its rotting
timbers. The coat of arms depicts two symbols: a
mailed fist and a moming star. Do you want to
search through the ruins (turn to 400), or will you
ignore them and continue along the path (turn to
126)?

140

140

You remember the words of the blind wizard Han-
nicus and you hold up the silver ring before Darra-
mouss. ‘What is it? What sort of a gesture is . . . the
Ring of Holy Blessing! Where did you get that? Give it
to me! This instant!’ His sunken eyes narrow and his
gaze becomes fierce and pierces deep into your
eyes. For a moment you feel him entering your will
and your hand extends the ring towards him! His
hand reaches out to take it from you .

But suddenly you manage to break out of your
trance. You step over to the wall and crush the ring’s
large bulbous stone against it. The creature behind
the desk shrieks as the stone shatters and a sweet-
smelling gas fills the air. Darramouss steps back
against the north wall and thumps a panel in the
wall with his hand. Almost immediately, the wall
draws aside and reveals a secret passageway! He
takes a step towards the passage, but it is too late.
The perfumed aroma has entered his body. Darra-
mouss drops to his knees, clutching his throat. He
topples over backwards and sprawls lifeless before
you. You have killed the foul creature! You may
now choose your next direction, through one of two
secret passageways. Will you head to the west (turn
to 79) or the north (turn to 184)?

141

141
‘Ssssooo!’ hisses one of the witches, holding her
hands high. ‘The creature sssucceedsss!’ ‘Sculli-
weed root!’ exclaims another. ‘Then indeed we are
to be instruments of your destiny! Give us the root.
Then we may tell you what you must know.’ You
hand over the plants to the witches.

‘So be it,’ starts the black-mouthed witch. ‘The test
has been passed. We must tell this creature of its
past, its present and of its future. You are a creature
of Zharradan Marr, this you know. You are his
creature as he is ours. But now you must destroy our
unholy son, for he seeks to alter the very balance of
nature. Evil must not triumph over all; Chaos can-
not reign supreme. For the balance is vital. We
cannot get near Zharradan, for he knows that we
would prevent his plans. But his vanity is great. You
are his creation. He will not turn you from his door.
And when you meet him, you must destroy him.
When you do this you will save the balance. And
your own truth will be revealed. We may not tell
you more lest your thirst for knowledge be
quenched and you abandon your destiny.’

The sightless witch continues: ‘We do not know
how you may meet Zharradan. But we can offer you
one more ally. In Knot Oak Wood you must meet
the white-haired Elf, Daga Weaseltongue. He can
tell you how to enter the Galleykeep, for he has been
there himself. But beware his words! Weaseltongue
speaks untruths as if they were truths. Should his
sentence begin with a vowel, then it is truth. Other-

141

wise trust not his words. But this Ring of Truth may
help you. Make sure you show it to him.” They place
a shiny jewelled ring on your finger. Should you
meet Weaseltongue, he may offer you some in-
formation. You may gain more reliable information
by revealing the witches’ ring and deducting 50
from the reference you are on at the time, for you are
able to see through his lies.

The witches continue: ‘We know not where in Knot
Oak Wood he is, but we know this. The Ophi-
diotaur is his ally. He will lead you to Weasel-
tongue. And we can lead you to the Ophidiotaur.
Just sleep when we have left. This is all we can say.
Now we must leave you. But your gift to us will be
used to produce a Potion of Luck. We shall try to
bestow its powers on you from afar. Farewell.’

With these words, the wind picks up once more and
a gale whistles through the tree. The images of the
witches fade in the wind and calm settles around
you. A faint breeze blows across your brow and it
seems to soothe you. You lie down once more on the
ground beneath the tree and drift off to sleep. You
may increase your LUCK score to its Initial level, as
this encounter has indeed been fortunate.

When you awaken, you do not recognize your new
surroundings. You are no longer under a solitary
tree in a barren landscape. Instead you are in a rich
forest! Birds twitter high above in the branches of

142

the many trees which shade you from the sun. You
look around and find that you are lying beside a
flowing river, whose cool waters are gently
spraying your face, You feel invigorated and you
Inay restore your STAMINA to its Initial level. Turn
to 423,

142
A foul smell wafts along the passage and seems to
get stronger as you continue. The air becomes cool
and moist and you eventually hear the splashings of
flowing water. The glowstones light up the way
ahead and you can see that the passage turns into a
narrow arch of rock stretching across a wide chasm.
A murky river runs through the chasm and it is this
nver that is responsible for the stink which fills the
area. The bridge is so narrow that, for a creature of
your bulk, the crossing will be extremely hazar-
dous. But there is no other way onwards. You step
on to the near side of the bridge. Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, turn to 221. If you are Unlucky, turn
to 193,

143-144

143

Your anger grows as the figure steps forward. The
candle throws a flicker of light across its face and
you can see that an expression of fury knits the
creature’s brow. You can also see flames burning in
each of the creature’s eyes, but perhaps these are
only reflections of the candle flame. Nevertheless,
your own eyes are held fast by the creature’s stare.
A hand reaches out and steely fingers close around
your neck! You begin to choke, and are unable to do
anything while you are transfixed by the creature's
burning eyes. Firially you break its gaze and force its
hand from your neck. You must resolve your battle
with the creature:

MASTER OF HELLFIRE sSkILL14 STAMINA14

If you manage to reduce it toa STAMINA Of 2 or less,
turn to 266.

144
The passage twists and turns until it leads youintoa
wide cavern. You pause to survey the way ahead.
There are no creatures to be seen and all is still
except for a dull humming which is forming an
almost unnoticeable background noise. The wall to
the left is riddled with large holes like a huge
honeycomb and many of the holes are lit with a
yellow glow. In the centre of the cavern, a few steps
off the path, is what seems to be a small pool of
shimmering liquid. Do you want to pass through
this chamber as quickly as possible (turn to 239)? Do
you want to investigate the light coming from the

145-146

holes (turn to 24)? Or will you have a look at the pool
of shimmering liquid (turn to 180)?

145
The Toadman feints at you with his trident and you
leap into action. Resolve your battle with the
creature:

TOADMAN SKILL 9 STAMINA 9
if you defeat him, turn to 287.
146

You follow the nervous shopkeeper round and cor-
ner him. His terrified expression turns to one of
astonishment when you hold out the gold coins.
When he sees that you have come to eat his wares,
not him, he rushes off round his shop to serve you.

He gathers together for you a generous collection of
provisions. First of all he gives you three small bags
of Abundance Nuts. You also receive two strips of
dried wildcat meat, a bag full of Jimweed root from
the sack on the counter, a skin of mulled wine and a
fresh loaf of corn bread. You leave his shop and sit
down outside to eat. You eat everything but the
Abundance Nuts, as the shopkeeper recommended
that you take them with you for later in your jour-
mney. Add 4 STAMINA points for the meal. You may
eat a bag of Abundance Nuts at any time during the
rest of your adventure except when in battle. Each
bag will restore 4 STAMINA points when eaten. You
can now continue out of the village by turning to

374.

147

147
There is something solid inside the sack. You

fumble with the cloth, but cannot seem to find a way
inside. Eventually you become frustrated, pick the
sack up and shake it.

A small wooden casket drops out. As it lands on the
ground, the catch flips open. Inside is a flask and the
bump has loosened the stopper. You watch as a
green liquid inside bubbles and boils, turning to a
green gas which slowly seeps from the neck of the
flask and drifts upwards in the air before you. You
are mesmerized by the swirling mists which grad-
ually become recognizable as a face! It is thin, with
angular features and is decidedly human. Eventu-
ally its eyes open and stare into yours. ‘Jih bvf ebffne
bwbk fnf defrp mom yoslym bfr! Whpocblisa p not
hfevb ppv rupfot pngv fs. T hf ehfbvfnl yebp dj fseh
bvfe tbkfneth fjri pp sjt jpns. M yo gif tijsig rb ntfd.
Fpro bfttf repro fpr owp rsfem ye rfl fbsfe bfs tpws
opno ypvuth fevnd frstbnd jng iyp vu dfsjrf. May
you use your gift wisely.’ Having said these words,
the green gas swirls once more and the face dis-
appears. As if sucked by force, it disappears once
more into the flask. Once it is inside, the flask and
the casket begin to fade. Moments later they have
disappeared! But your unintentional encounter
with the Vapour of Tongues has been fortunate. The
spirit has bestowed on youits gift of language. From
now on you will understand most languages as
spoken or written. You may translate coded speech
by turning to reference 283, where you will find the
secret of the code.

148-150

148

You decide to follow the passage east, to your right.
Your first steps are slow, as you take in the encoun-
ter with the Dwarf. After a few paces, the corridor
turns north. You approach a stout wooden door and
must make a decision. Will you smash the door from
its hinges and continue? Or will you give up on this
route and return to the Dwarf’s corpse? Roll one
die. If the result is 1 or 2, turn to 419. If the rollis 3-6,
turn to 72.

149
You quicken your pace along the passage, away
from the stink of the stream. Suddenly, your foot
steps forward into nothing and you are falling down-
wards through the air! Your bulky body picks up
speed quickly, but luckily the fall is not a jengthy
one. You land in a heap at the bottom of the pitfall
you have walked straight into. If it were not for your
bulk, you might have landed unharmed on the
straw-strewn floor. But you groan as you nurse your
right leg. Blood is seeping from between the scales
and you have twisted your knee badly. You must
deduct 3 STAMINA points for the fall. Now tum to

150
You try beating the door with your fists. It has been
specially made to withstand batterings of this sort
and all you succeed in doing is injuring your hands.
Lose 1 STAMINA point. If you wish to continue
trying to break down the door, turn to 398. Other-
wise you will have to search for the key (turn to 112)

151-152
151
Angrily you slash at the fortune-teller. Resolve your
battle with Rosina of Dree:
ROSINA OF DREE SKILL 8 STAMINA 7

If you defeat her, turn to 264.

152

You step forward and swing your fist hard into the
glass. The sound of the impact echoes round the
room. But, rather than the shattering sound you
were expecting, the noise is a deep rumbling, as the
mirror vibrates. ‘Fool!’ screams Zharradan Marr.
Did you really think the portal between my world
and yours would be so easy to destroy? Why, if that
were so, I would be at the mercy of a simple accident
- or even rough weather!’ He is right: it would
indeed have been foolish of him to be left so vulner-
able. ‘My mirror cannot be harmed; you waste your
ime and mine. I can see you have no desire to join
me. But our futures are intertwined. If you will not
consider yourself my friend, then you must become
my enemy!’ The image of Marr fades from the
reflection and your own begins to reappear. You
react quickly in frustration, and prepare to try
another blow, but this time with all your might.
Turn to 302.

153-155

153

The easterly passage leads you down a slight incline
and along a narrow route which is cold and wet
underfoot. The glowstones light your way once
more. You soon find yourself sloshing and
splashing along the corridor, and you look down to
find that your feet are walking, not through ordi-
nary mud, but through a thick, jelly-like substance
which appears to be dark blue in colour. The pass-
age bends sharply round to the north, and you plod
onwards. Your progress may be unpleasant, but
you feel noill effects from the slime. Eventually, you
reach a junction. Ahead, straight up the corridor,
the slime changes to an even darker shade of blue.
To the right, a single step upwards leads to a dry
passageway heading east. If you wish to continue
heading north, turn to 232. If you step out of the
slime and head east, turn to 94.

154
The door is locked. It may be possible to break it
down, but you could damage your shoulder, as the
timbers are heavy, If you wish to try breaking the
door, turn to 396. If instead you would prefer to try
the door in the east wall, turn to 263.

155
You approach the orb. Its perch is only slightly
above your head and you reach up to take it in your
hands. But as your fingers close around it, you
suddenly leap away! Although its appearance gives
no warning, it feels red hot to the touch! Lose 1

156

STAMINA point for the burns. Then a shape begins
to form in the crystal. Moments later, a shrivelled,
death-like human face within the orb opens its eyes
and glares at you. Its mouth begins to speak and an
eerie voice booms out along the corridor: ‘Fp plj
shicrfb tvrf. Djdiypv uthjn k iypvucpvl duth) fvfe
thfep rbop fodbrr bmp vss? Np n fem byat pvch umy
us ber fd ecr ystb la fpr oj tij simy ify fseb nd afb rs.
Bn damy awf bppns obsa ypvus hbl lasff.’ What will
you do now? Do you wish to wait and see what the
face in the orb does next (turn to 428), or will you
leave it and either take the other branch of this
passage (turn to 81) or return to the crossroads and
go west (turn to 213) or east (turn to 50)?

156

You follow the passage to the east and you find
yourself wandering down a long, straight passage.
After some time, you arrive at a crossroads and you
must choose which way to turn. As you are con-
sidering your choice, you are startled when all the
glowstones you are relying on to light your way go
out simultaneously! You are now stranded in the
pitch-blackness! Which way will you go:

North? Turn to 354
South? Turn to 212
Straight on? Turn to 310

161-162

tpothb taswj nf bfbr dacvr!’ You cannot fight both at
once. Which will you direct your attention to? Test
your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 292. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 48.

161

The room is roughly circular, with doors in the
north, south and west walls. Around the walls, in
between the doors, are dark arches — a total of six —
which are large enough for you to enter. But from
your position it is impossible to know how deep
they are. The voices which you heard earlier have
stopped, as if your entrance has surprised whoever
~ or whatever — was talking. There is no sign of any
living creature in the room. You step into the centre
and you are startled when the door slams shut
behind you! You must now decide what to do. Will
you leave the room through one of the doors (turn to
405) or stay to investigate the room further (turn
to 104)?

162

A cloud drifts overhead and blots out the moon. In
pitch-blackness, the going is difficult for you. You
grope your way along, trying to be as cautious as
possible. Suddenly you step into an unseen ditch!
You lurch forwards and your head cracks against a
low branch. Consciousness fades, and you slump
into the ditch. When you open your eyes once more,
it is light! You rub your sore head (you must lose 2
STAMINA points for the injury) and pick yourself
up. You continue your journey through the wood.
Turn to 244.

163-164

163

Had you been a little more observant, you would
have noticed how all the footprints avoided the
centre of the clearing. As you step across towards
your chosen trail, your foot sinks deep into mud.
This happens too quickly for you to pull yourself
back and, to your horror, you find yourself sinking
deep into the muddy swamp! There is nothing
around for you to grab hold of. If you havea length
of rope, turn to 23. If not, turn to 83.

164
You creep cautiously and somewhat clumsily
around the outside wall, keeping well out of the
way of the black circle. It continues to shimmer
mysteriously as you edge round it, but nothing
happens. When you have passed it, the passageway
narrows again to a moderate size and heads due
east. You follow it until you reach another bend, this
time to the north. But this passageway is quite short
and ends at a wooden door. When you listen at the
door, you can hear voices — either two or three
different ones. The conversation rises and falls in
pitch as if the creatures (or humans) were locked
into a long discussion. This is your only way on-
wards. Will you try the door and attempt to creep
slowly into the room (turn to 276), or will you
attempt to surprise whatever is inside by charging

157-158

157
You leave Thugruff and move around the court-
yard, mixing with the others. They are an unruly
lot, spoiling for a fight. Each wears the studded
black leather tunic which is the Galleykeep uniform.
Each also wears a medallion around his neck with
his number on. You decide to mix with some of the
groups to try to learn what you can about the piace.
Will you mix with a group of Orcs and Rhino-Men
squabbling in the corner of the courtyard (turn to
377), or a group of Goblins and Elves in the centre of
the courtyard (turn to 284)?

158
The door opens into a large room, which is not the
dark, dingy room you were expecting. Itis well lit by
sunlight streaming in through a large porthole in
the far wall. Bookshelves line the walls, along with
charts of the heavens. A desk in front of the porthole
is laden down with books, charts and strange de-
vices, and other bulky pieces of scientific apparatus
stand on the floor. There are two side doors leading
from the room and one is opening to let someone in.

‘That's right. Come in, come in. Don’t bother to
knock. My room is your room. Bah! I'll not return to
this cursed ship ever again. When we reach Dree, I
shall leave and ride to Blacksand. You won't catch
me on one of these damned cloud-ships again,
that’s for sure.’ He is an old man with long greying
hair. He mutters away to himself, wrapped up in his
own thoughts. Finally he turns towards you and
looks over the top of his half-moon eyeglasses. ‘Yes?

159-160

Well, come on! Lost your tongue, have you? Or are
you just so stupid that you can’t remember what
you came for, If that Vallaska Roue wants another
storm to appear, just so he can strike another poor
Ophidiotaur with a bolt of lightning, tell him not to
waste my time, and. . .’ He has noticed your look
of bewilderment. “Look, you great brute, are you
in the right place? Did you intend to visit me,
Nimbicus? When people visit a Weather Mage, they
normally want something. So? Ye gods! This crea-
ture’s got the mind of a Jib-Jib. Fearsome out of sight;
feeble in the light. Look. Ifyou want something, speak
to me, If not, get out!’ He is getting impatient. Do
you want to leave the room? If so, turn to 459. If you
want to search round his room, turn to 303. Other-
wise you may attack him (turn to 254).

LEE,
You allow him to take the ring and he steps back
towards the wall. You have found the conversation
interesting, but now you are anxious to move on.
Turn to 138.

160
As the creature dies, you sink your teeth into its arm
to taste its juicy flesh. But then you remember the
other two adventurers. The red-robed figure is
facing you, pointing the little finger of each hand at
you and mumbling. The shiny human has grabbed a
sword — similar, you remember, to the Dwarf’s, but
larger — and is shouting to the other: ‘Cpn tr plojt
simjn dishbmbn! Jtim by abfeb blfe tp olf bda vsu

165-167

165
Roll one die. If you roll 1-3, you decide to head
north into the wide cave entrance ahead of you (turn
to 408). If you roll 4-6, you take the narrower cave
entrance which leads west (turn to 344).

166

The descent is dangerous and several times you lose
your footing and stumble on the slippery steps. But
your luck holds out and you finally arrive at the foot
of the staircase. The stench of the river is especially
foul to your sensitive nostrils and your eyes search
desperately for a way out of the cavern. You dis-
cover two openings in the rock-face ahead of you.
One leads to the west and the other to the north.
Will you continue north (turn to 358) or turn west
(turn to 77)?

167
Whiteleaf beams with pride at the chance to tell of
his adventures. ‘My family is well respected in our
village,’ he starts. ‘My mother — rest her soul—wasa
lady-in-waiting to our Queen Ethilesse, while my
father served in the Royal Guard. I earn my living
tending our aviaries, for we of Ethelle Amaene are
great bird-lovers. Our birds are trained to work for
us, gathering food for our cooking-pots and herbs
for our potions. Anyone who is trained in the art of
bird-caring can communicate with the birds, whose
wisdom is great. They know the solutions to most of
our problems and want to help us. They carry me
about in the woods and, any minute now, I expect

168-169

Cheree and Chitta will arrive to take me back to
patch up my wounds.’ He looks anxiously into the
skies. Birds fly about above the trees, but none come
down into the clearing. After waiting for a few
moments, he decides to leave and sets off in the
direction you arrived from, with a wave and another
expression of thanks. Turn to 414.

168

You make your way cautiously towards the door,
horrified by the sight of the bodies slowly dis-
appearing. As you step across one of the pug-nosed
creatures, your foot catches something in the air. A
screeching noise from somewhere is followed by a
yelp of pain from you, as sharp teeth clamp on to
your foot! Lose 2 STAMINA points. The shock
causes you to tumble over and this frees your foot.
But as you lift yourself up, something is happening
in the room. Three shapes are materializing in front
of you. Turn to 447.

169

Pretending not to understand, you stare at him
wide-eyed. ‘Stupid creature!’ he says scornfully.
‘You'll not be much use outside if you don’t speak
the language. Got lost, did you? Turn round and go
back the way you came, serpent-face. And if it’s a
journey you fancy, jump into the Bilgewater and see
where it takes you!’ The guard laughs and turns
back to his room. The only way you are going to get
past him is by attacking. Turn to 73.

170-172

170
Fury builds up within you! You step back and witha
loud roar you charge into the door. The hinges crack
and are ripped off as the door crashes inwards.
There is no furniture or decoration in the cave that
greets your eyes. There is a seat carved out of the
stone, but the room is clearly the dwelling of a
captive or slave. Your eyes then switch to the room’s
inhabitant - and your reaction is swift! The huge
Clawbeast, whose peace you have disturbed,
slashes at you with its deadly talons! You lurch back
and avoid the creature’s onslaught. But this attack
serves only to fuel your rage. Your own sharp claws
slide out and you turn to the Clawbeast. Resolve
this combat:

CLAWBEAST SKILL 9 STAMINA 14

if you defeat the creature, turn to 389.

t71
Your hands comb the walls for signs of an entrance
or any other way onwards, but in vain. You are ina
dead end. You will have to return to the crossroads
and take either the passage to the north (turn to 354)
or the passage to the south (turn to 212).

172
The northward passage is short and ends at a stout
wooden door. If you wish to force the door open,
turn to 15. If you would prefer to return to the main
passage and follow it west, turn to 149.

a750179

173
‘Fool!’ cackles the blind witch. ‘Do you think we
cannot tell the difference between Sculliweed and
Purity Plant? What use is Purity Plant to us? We
must prepare our Potions of Fortune, not cleansing
balms.’ Turn to 222.

174
You ignore the old Rhino-Man’s cries and continue
northwards, following the trail through the wood.
After many hours you reach a clearing. Turn to 366.

175
Your attempts at freeing yourself are all to no avail.
Night comes, followed by the morning sunrise.
Birds are beginning to circle round you and you are
feeling decidedly weak. But in the distant sky, a tiny
shape comes into view. As it comes closer, you
realize it is not a bird. It is much too large to be any
living creature and its size eventually frightens off
the birds circling above you. When it comes close
enough for you to see, you can make out its shape
clearly, although itis something with which you are
not familiar. A huge vessel, with billowing sails

176-177

above it, is heading towards you! You watch as it
gets closer and closer, and eventually stops over
you. A pole is lowered over the side. It grabs the
rope from which you are hanging and hoists you on
to the deck. You are too tired and weak to resist as
rough hands shove your neck through the nearby
guillotine. This foraging expedition has been most
successful. The crew of the Galleykeep will have a
hearty meal tonight... .

176
If you simply rest by the pond, turn to 453, If you
drink from it, turn to 391. If you would prefer to
bathe in it, turn to 26.

177

The trail leads to a small copse growing on a solitary
hillock which is the only noticeable feature of the
otherwise flat countryside. When you reach the
hillock, you can see a face of bare rock. Set in this
rock are a number of small cave entrances facing the
trail. In the centre of these, backed up to the rock-
face, is a hut, and smoke drifts lazily from its
chimney. Someone is at home. Looking out west-
wards beyond the hillock, the ground is flat for as
far as you can see. Your eyes scan the inhospitable
wastes of the Windward Plain. Nothing about its
bleakness looks inviting. You turn your attentions
once more to the hut. Will you enter through the
front door (turn to 252), or will you try one of the
caves set in the rock-face (turn to 340)?

178-180

178
You turn from the dead skeleton. But this is a
mistake. For as soon as your eyes have left the
undead creature, its bones knit quickly together. It
grabs the knives and springs on your back! You
must continue your fight with the physician:

QUIMMEL BONE
If you defeat it, turn to 407.

SKILL 8 STAMINA 7

179

You can find no clues as to how to get further along
the passageway. Angry and frustrated, you stamp
your foot on the ground and smack the rocky wall
with your fist. This was not a wise thing to do. The
tock overhead was loose but delicately balanced,
and now the roof and walls come crashing in on top
of you. You have indeed come to a dead end in the
dungeons of Zharradan Marr.

180

You leave the path and walk towards the shimmer-
ing liquid, treading carefully across the rough
boulders. As you get close, you see something that
causes you to stop, blink and look again. Out of the
corner of your eye, you are sure you saw the liquid
suddenly rise in the air, then fall almost immedi-
ately to become smooth once more. But this hap-
pened without any sound. You take another careful
step forward and, as you are now next to the ‘pool’,
you realize to your horror the mistake you have
made...

181

This is no pool at all. The shimmering surface is in
fact the gloss on the wings of a Giant Hornet, which
is feeding in a crevice. As you look down on the
creature, it turns its large, ugly head up at you,
mandibles clicking hungrily. With a flutter of its
wings, it takes to the air and hovers ready to attack!
Aiming its sting at your chest, it plummets towards
you. Turn to 332.

181
This plant has mysterious properties. You may or
may not get the opportunity to find out what it can
be used for. If asked to present this plant to some-
one later in the adventure, remember the number

eighty-one. Now you may leave the river-bank by
turning to 18.

182-183

182

After following the tunnel for some time, you begin
to hear clinking noises and voices from somewhere
ahead. You round a corner and enter a large
chamber lit by the flickering light of many torches,
where creatures of all sizes and shapes are swinging
implements at the rock-face. Their hard work is
watched by several large, heavily armoured guards,
who brandish long bullwhips, and any pauses in
the work are rewarded by painful slashes from these
whips. The creatures at work seem to be digging out
the rock-face and loading it into trucks. The trucks
are then pushed along the tracks you have found by
other minions. Will you try to creep through the
chamber, keeping out of sight of the guards (turn to
78)? Or will you step behind one of the trucks and
see where it is to be pushed to (turn to 94)?

183

The path winds tortuously through the forest and
you follow it up hill and down dale. Although you
pass many types of birds and other small animals,
there seems to be nothing menacing about the wood
and you are soon feeling quite carefree — until you
notice that the wood has been changing very subtly.
The general colour of the forest is imperceptibly
changing from rich browns and greens to duller
shades of the same colours. You are entering the
Forest of Spiders.

When you first notice this, you think little of it. But
now the atmosphere of the wood is changing too.

184

The chirping of songbirds is replaced by the cawing
of crows; previously there were brightly coloured
butterflies flitting from flower to flower, but now
only black and brown buzzing insects are to be seen.
Your steps slow to a more cautious pace. Your eyes
dart from tree to tree as if you were expecting
something to spring out at any moment. But there is
nothing. Then a noise behind you catches your
attention and you twist round to a startling sight.
Standing directly in the middle of the path behind
you is a tall tree! Its gnarled branches are dead and
twisted; its trunk is stout and knotted. But you are
certain that it was not there when you passed along that
part of the path! Will you go back to investigate the
tree (turn to 76), or will you quicken your pace away
from it (turn to 102)?

184

You are glad to be out of the room and away from
the vile creature. You take long strides and follow
the passage north. It turns to the west and your nose
twitches at the foul smell of sewage. A strong
wooden bridge takes you across the stinking
Bilgewater. You are forced to hold your breath as
you cross, but on the other side you quickly leave
the filthy river and the passageway turns once more
to the north. You arrive at a heavy door carved out
of the rock which blocks the way onwards. As you
are considering what to do, the door opens.

A burly, dark-skinned human stands in the door-
way. His face is badly scarred and one of his eyes is

185-186

half-closed. His lips curl back in a sneer which
shows his few, dirty teeth. ‘Well?’ he asks. ‘What is
it? Has Darramouss sent you? Have you permission
to leave Marr’s dungeons? Come on! Where’s your
tongue?’ Will you nod to let him know you have
been allowed to leave by Darramouss (turn to 3),
will you play stupid and see what he does next (turn
to 169), or will you grab him in your claws and do
battle (turn to 73)?

185
The little creature screams in horror as you raise
your foot over its head. ‘Lfbv femfeb Ipnf,’ it
squeals, as it swings the sharp sword in its hand
towards your leg. But the blow is weak and glances
off your tough scales; you feel nothing. A second
later you are looking down with mixed feelings at
the lifeless form of the Dwarf. Will you examine the
body (turn to 399), will you attempt to hide the body
down the passageway you have just come from
{turn to 218), or will you quickly leave the area (turn

to 248)?

186
You cannot resist the temptation to find out what is
bound inside the sack. You squat down next to the
squirming figure and prod it with your hand. It
squeals pitifully and its hopeless attempts to
wriggle free become frantic. Suddenly the creature’s
smell hits your nostrils. This smell has a curious
effect on you. You are spoiling for battle. But along-
side this, your mouth is watering; you have the

187

compelling desire to sink your teeth into a large
chunk of flesh to satisfy your appetite. Thus your
craving is both hunger and rage, and your passion is
uncontrollable!

Your talons slide from your fingertips and you slash
furiously at the ropes binding the sack. They fray
and snap, and out falls a battered and bloodied little
human-like creature. It is clean-shaven, with brown
hair on its head, its hands and even on its feet,
which are not covered with footwear. The creature's
weary head rolls around towards you and its eyes
gaze into yours as if to plead for pity. But when it
realizes what you are, a look of stark horror spreads
across its facel It screams in anguish and fights
desperately to break free. But itis no use. You have
the little fellow securely in your grip. Your fangs
sink first of all into its neck to quell the struggles.
Then you feast greedily on its soft body. You may
restore your STAMINA to its Initial value. When you
are finished with the Hobbit, you look up along the
passageway. You are startled to discover that you
are being watched! In the darkness down the pas-
sage is a mysterious figure. Turn to 63.

187
The second adventurer carried, around his waist, a
short wooden shaft with a two-edged metal plate on
the end. You pick up this axe and tum itoverin your
hands inquisitively. Grasping the shaft awkwardly,
you raise it over your head and bring it down on a
rock by your side. The rock shatters. But unfortu-

188

nately the shaft also breaks and the metal head goes
skidding along the corridor away from you, As if in
response, a glowstone suddenly lights in the
passageway ahead! A tiny face pokes round the
bend and surveys the scene. You see the face only
for a moment, but the effect is immediate. Turn to
403.

188

The old man fusses about with his jars of potions.
He is nervous in your presence and his hands
shake, rattling the bottles. ‘lI think th-this will do
it” he stammers, pouring the contents of two bottles
into a saucer, ‘C-c-come here and put your head
over this saucer.’ You are suspicious, but you do as
he says. When your head is in position, he grinds a
little powder into the liquid with his fingers. The
effect is startling and you draw your face back as the
liguid vaporizes as thick brown smoke. You cannot
help but inhale the smoke, and you cough and
splutter, rubbing your watering eyes, But the
medicine-man has not deceived you. His herbal
medicine is able to remove curses and the effects of
any curse you may have had cast upon you is now
neutralized. Still coughing and rubbing your eyes,
you leave the shack and head out of town. Turn to
374-

—_-

189-191

189

You leave the clearing and stomp off through the
undergrowth. Birds twitter excitedly as you crash
through the woods and you turn your head up to
watch them. Far in the distance you see a black
shape, hovering in the sky. It is too large to be a
bird and has none of the familiar shapes of a
flying creature. The Galleykeep! You remember
Weaseltongue’s words. But how will you ever be
able to find a hidden trap among all the trees? Test
your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 341. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 376.

190
As you follow the trail, the vegetation changes. The
flat grassland begins to be replaced by taller reeds.
The going underfoot becomes muddier, until
eventually you reach an area where bulrushes tower
over your head. Will you continue into the rushes
(turn to 307), or will you head back to the junction
and take the north-east trail instead (turn to 134)?

191
You press on northwards, following the trail
through the wood. If you are hungry, you may try to
catch some food by turning to 368. If you are not

hungry, turn to 229.

192

192
Once more you pick up the parchment and stare at
it, The writing is not neat, but you can just about
make out the following message:

‘Bip grbp hyapfoz o mbrrap befen jnf tyet hrif: . . .
th vsu cbmf embr rat pobbbn dpn othfephy sjcbla
wprid obnd atbk fe rffvgfe jnihj sipwn. Ba strb
ngfenfth frwpridowhjc hip cevp jfsen pospbc fej nit
hfew prldo wie mpr tblsa knpw. Ba wprl dopf
gjllvsjpn oj niw hjchiw hfr fehfe bpp fb rse tpo bfe
hfej sanpt. Bnda bawp rido jni whj chith psiesf bre
hjngifpr ohjmi wpv Idujnstfb daf jndit hfmsf Ivis.
Hifeh bsab vt upn fewfbkn fss ejnihj sin fwew prid
obndat hbt ajsibac ry stbla clvbuw hjch imbyab fev
side tpodfs trp yofprtv fret hfegbtfwb yabf t wftne
pyruw pr Idobndahjs.” }fi btas pmf etjm fejn ithfe fvt
vrt eypv ubfl jfvf eypv uhbvf elpeb tf det hf eft rbnec
fet pombrrsan fth frwpr Id odfdvet uth fep bg fe
nvmbtrebbpy fef rpmoth ferfffrin cfe ypvubrt
epnobt ath fet) mf eb ndatv rnut poth jsi rf ffr fnef,
Ifiypy ub r fecp rrf ctey py uwjl lim f ftet hf enf erpm
bnetr. Fproh b vjng it hfegp pdo fpr tvnfe tp ofjn
dithjsip br chmfnt eypvumb ya rfstp rfeypyru
lvckus cp rfetp ojt sij njtjbl al fvfl.

Alter you have studied it for some time, you leave
the room. Will you leave through the door in the
east wall (turn to 365) or the door in the south wall
(turn to 450)?

193-194

193

In the centre of the bridge, you glance down, The
sight of the filthy water down below is unnerving
and for an instant you lose your balance on the
slippery bridge! Your fate is to plunge head first
down into the disgusting Bilgewater below, never
to emerge alive, unless your SKILL is great. Roll two
dice. If you roll a number greater than or equal to
your SKILL score, your adventure ends here, plung-
ing down into the foul river below. If you roll a
number less than your SKILL, then you regain your
footing (turn to 221).

194

You bend down to grasp the creature’s body, which
lies face down on the floor in front of you. You turn
it over, unaware of the deadly surprise in store. For
as the light falls on the creature's face, you see that
the creature you fought has disappeared! In its place
is the grotesque head of a long-dead Zombie, whose
rotten flesh is being eaten by crawling grubs. Its
fiery eyes are still alight and they once more capture
your gaze. As you stare transfixed, the creature
suddenly sits bolt upright and two streams of fire
from its eyes burn into your own! You scream in
agony at the pain, and a slow smile spreads across
the creature’s face of death. It has only just begun its
attack. Your death will be slow and painful.

195-196

195

You growl impatiently at the medicine-man, but he
is adding ingredients to his herbal broth and con-
tinues to ignore you. Finally you will wait no more.
You step up to him and swipe at the boiling broth.
Most of the liquid splashes up into the face of the
medicine-man, who screams in agony and clutches
his eyes. He falls to the floor, sobbing and moaning.
When he eventually looks up, his sightless eyes
search aimlessly around the room. He is totally
blind and is in no fit state to help you. You may leave
him and the village by turning to 374. Or, if you
prefer, you may put him out of his misery (turn to
456).

196

She shuffles off into the house for your Potion of
Healing. You take a sniff of the yellowy liquid and
gag. It smells disgusting! ‘Come now, it will do you
good,’ coaxes the hag. ‘Drink it all up. And all your
problems will vanish.’ You take a deep breath and
swallow the contents of the bowl. It washes down
your throat, leaving a bitter taste in your mouth.
You cough a few times, but soon it has settled. You
turn to go.

‘There really is no need for you to go so quickly,’
chuckles the old crone. “You may as well get to like it
here.’ You are puzzled by her words. ‘For you will
not be leaving for some time. After all, now that
Shanga cannot serve me, and I cannot keep up this
home without a slave, can you blame me?’ You are
still not sure what she is talking about, but you

197-198

notice you are feeling warm — and even happy —
inside. The old witch now seems to be not so mucha
dirty hag but more a kindly soul and her words are
ike music to your ears. “There are many chores that
you will busy yourself with,’ she continues. ‘And
you will be fed well. Look —- Shanga can be your first
meal. You will be happy spending the rest of your
hfe in Dree.’ And every day you will receive an-
other tasty bowlful of my special Potion of Obedi-
ence.’

197

When strapped to your arm, this plate will make a
useful shield in battle. While using this shield, you
may add 1 point to your skit. In addition, any
more metallic discs of gold and silver may be carried
in the pouch on the back. Finally, the spike on the
font will allow you to break down doors more
easily. If you are told to lose 1STAMINA point when
attempting to break down a door, you may ignore
this penalty (if the damage is more severe, then
even your shield will not help you). Now leave the
chamber and turn to 257 to continue your journey.

198
Hooo-00-00. A bird’s cry pierces the night air as you
step through the mysterious stones, looking for
anything unusual. You pause by a tall, smooth,
black stone and study the writing on it. ‘Here lies
Sogarth Foulblade, smitten in the Sculliweed
plague, leaving good wife Millinia and sons Chard
and Seth. May Chlorissian take his soul.’ Not far
from this is an ornate stone covered in small carv-

199

ings of winged creatures and fierce-looking gar-
goyles. Its inscription is in smaller print and you
must step right up to read it: ‘The ground is cursed
where I, Donag Haddurag, lie. Let not man or beast
dare set foot on my grave, lest he feel my wrath and
the ground open up to disembowel his miserable
body. Donag Haddurag, necromancer of Coven.’

You look to the ground and see your own foot
planted squarely on the centre of his grave! Will you
wait to see whether or not the threat is an idle boast
(turn to 411), or turn and find somewhere to hide
(turn to 67)?

199

Marr’s eyes open wider and he leans forward. His
head protrudes from the mirror as if it were a pool of
water, held on to the wall by magic. “Now I can help
you, but you must give me the Half-Orc’s knapsack’
What can he want with Grog’s knapsack? It contains
only a few of the creature’s possessions and a box
. . . Of course! The box! You now remember that
you have seen similar boxes twice before. Once just
before you found you were developing control of
your destiny and again just before you started to be
able to understand the languages of other creatures.
Perhaps this box is what he is after. Marr holds his
hand out and it too emerges from the mirror into the
room.

‘Vallaska Roue has failed me,’ he says. ‘For the
Galleykeep has not enabled us to find the Elf village.
There was only one way to test the powers of the

200

Vapours: to use them ona living creature. I care little
for the “power of reason” or the “power of
languages”, as these are skills | already have. It was
much more profitable to allow you to use these
Vapours. But the Vapour of Life is mine. Give it to
me!”

Will you give him the box as he wishes? If so, turn to
74. If you refuse, turn to 133.

200
The old man offers to help if you will lead him out of
the dungeon. ‘My name, if you wish to know it, is
Hannicus. I know much of what goes on here,’ he
starts, “for I was the keeper of these dungeons
before Zharradan Marr decided that an undead
would be more ruthless than an ageing wizard and
gave that damned Darramouss ~ curse his soul— my
position. The only reward for thirty-six years’ ser-
vice was my black-eye curse and a future as a
plaything to be held captive at Darramouss’s
pleasure.’ All this is interesting to you and you
allow him to continue. ‘I can lead you straight to the
undead keeper if you will lead me ~ if you see what I
mean. We must travel east until we reach the lair of
the Chattermatter. But ignore his prattle, for he
seeks only to feed on your flesh. North then we
must travel to reach Darramouss. I can help you slay
him, with this!’ From inside his robes, he pulls a
silver ring which has a large bulbous stone set in it.
He walks over to you and gropes for your hand,
finding it eventually. ‘Look, this ring will fit any
finger — even yours. There! When you meet

201-202

Darramouss, smash the stone into the wall. It will
break and release a deadly gas — deadly, that is, to
the undead Half-Elf. It will not harm humans and
will no doubt have no effect on you.’ Add 2 Luck
points for this information. You look at the ring on
your finger admiringly. The human is asking for it
back. Will you give itto him? If so, turn to 159. If not,
turn to 360.

201

The door in the south wall opens to reveal a short,
narrow corridor. But as you are considering
whether or not to step through the door, a creaking
sound comes from behind you. You swing round
to see the door in the east wall slowly opening.
Glowstones in the passage outside flick on to light
up your way. You cannot resist this invitation, and
you leave through the east door. Turn to 49.

202
The heat is becoming unbearable. Your thick scales
serve only to make matters worse and you drag
yourself round the walls, searching desperately
for a way out of the furnace. You pound on the
rock, hoping to find a loose stone, but there is none.
However, at one point you bash the two bracelets
together. The ringing sound becomes unnaturally
loud and, as it does so, the roarings of the furnace
subside. The vibrations on your wrists increase and
eventually all is calm and the temperature has been
restored to normal. An opening appears in the west
wall and you can leave. You arrive at a familiar

203-205

crossroads, but this ime you choose a different
direction. Will you turn right (turn to 443) or
continue westwards (turn to 213)?

203
You follow the trail east for some time, until a
familiar shape looms on the horizon. The building
im which you met the Women of Dree! You realize
that you have retraced your journey, so you decide
io return to the crossroads. Lose 1 STAMINA point
for the wasted journey. At the junction, will you
tum north (turn to 130) or continue west (turn to

177)?

204

The passage runs straight ahead until you reach a
solid wooden door. It is locked and looks much too
sturdy for you to break down. But in the centre of
the door is a huge metal plate with a heavy ball
pivoted above it. Will you use the ball to hit the plate
to attract the attention of whoever is inside (turn to
435), or will you return to the junction and take the
passage to the north (turn to 144)?

205

Roaring like an enraged Demon, you rush into the
open chamber, ready to take on whatever is inside.
Terrified shrieks come from the small party of
adventurers huddling round a makeshift campfire
im the centre of the area. Three figures are warming
themselves by the fire. One wears shiny clothes that
clink as he moves. Another is dressed in red and

206

also grows long dark hair from his chin. The third is
a tiny creature with polished hide on his chest. He
has no hair on his chin, but has plenty on his feet,
which he has been holding up to warm at the fire.
Your eyes fix on the smallest of the three. Your
breathing gets heavier and a feeling of pure hatred
grips you. Without hesitating, you stomp across
and grab the miserable Hobbit with your claws. The
other two are caught off balance and are slow to
react. The Hobbit has no weapon and should be an
easy victim:

HOBBIT

If you defeat the creature in three straight Attack
Rounds, turn to 160. If it takes longer than three
rounds, turn to 86.

SKILL 5 STAMINA 6

206

You ignore the pleas of the miserable little creature.
After chewing through the rope to cut him down,
you put him out of his misery and feast ravenously
on his tasty flesh. Restore your sTAMINA fo its
Initial level. You must then decide which way to
turn at the fork. Will you go left (turn to 351) or right
(turn to 183)?

207

207
You slump to the ground, exhausted from the fight.
During the battle, the creature’s red robe fell to the
floor and this now catches your attention. You pick
it up, admiring its richness and its feel. You stand
up, swing it over your shoulders and proudly take a
few steps, watching how it flows with your move-
ments. You sit down again, happy with your new
possession. But then a strange feeling comes over
you. A pain in your stomach is followed by an
overwhelming hunger. You must eat something!
The dead Blood Orc lying at your feet suddenly
looks delicious and you eat heartily. For the time
being your appetite has been satisfied. Add 4
STAMINA points.

You are now ready to leave the room. You step up to
the door and attempt to open it. But there is no
handie. Your claws dig into the wood and you pull
hard, but to no avail. The door is closed tightly and
is being held by some catch. You cannot open it.
You try charging the door, but it is much too strong
for you ever to smash down, But your frustration
soon tums to a quite different feeling as another
wave of hunger spreads through you. Will you step
over to the Orc’s bones to suck them clean (turn to
109), or will you instead attempt to remove the red
robe (turn to 21)?

208-210

208

Once more the glowstones light your way as you
tramp along the passage. The walls begin to glisten
and from ahead you can hear the splashings of an
underground river. As you approach, a strong smell
begins to waft towards you, The disgusting smell,
which comes from the river itself, causes you to stop
fora moment to catch your breath. After a few more
paces, you reach a rocky bridge. Steep chasm walls
stretch down to the bubbling river below and you
look over the edge to get some idea of the distance.
The bridge is narrow, and wet from the moisture in
the air; no doubt it is slippery, too. Do you want to
risk crossing the bridge (turn to 265), or will you
turn back and take the easterly passage (turn to
122)?

209

You may, if you wish, regain your strength by
waiting for a few moments in the room before
continuing. You can pass the time by feasting on
either of the dead creatures, Which looks the
tastiest: the Manic Beast (turn to 231) or the human
carcass (turn to 249)? Or will you ignore the food
and simply leave the room (turn to 293)?

210
You stop and wait as the old hag hobbies up to you.
‘Praise be to Nanagga that you stopped, strange
creature,’ she croaks, panting from the effort of
catching up with you. ‘My rainwater barrel has
fallen from its perch and I cannot lift iton my own, if

211-212

you will lift it for me I will reward you well. My
Speciality is potions and I wager a dose of Healing
Potion would not go amiss, eh? Well?’ Will you help
the woman out as she wants? If so, turn to 224. If
you would rather not, turn to 35.

211

Strange smells of boiling herbs reach your nostrils as
you enter the shack. Inside, the room is cluttered
and disorganized and the pungent smell of the
boiling herbs is particularly offensive to you. Stand-
ing over the pot of herbs is an old, white-haired man
holding a ladle in one hand and an open book in the
other. He wears a long, black robe and is concentrat-
ing intently on his potion. You stare at him for a few
moments. He does not even notice you until you
accidentally kick a large, round vegetable and send
it scuttling across the floor. The man throws back his
long hair and glances up at you. He seems to look
through you; you are not sure whether he is seeing
you or not. He waves you over toa chair to wait until
he has finished. Will you wait as he wishes (turn to
316), or do you refuse to wait (turn to 195)?

212

You grope your way along the passage for several
paces and find that it comes abruptly to a dead end.
You may either search the walls for any signs of a
way through (turn to 245), or you may return to the
crossroads and choose the north passage (turn to
354) or the easterly one (turn to 310).

213-214

213
You reach a dead end. The light is dim and it is diffi-
cult to see, so you grope around for a possible way
onwards. There is none to be found. You turn round
and return to the crossroads. Will you now continue
north (turn to 443) or east (turn to 50)?

214
Your struggles against the sticky Gluevines are
hopeless. The more you try to free yourself, the
more entangled you become. But in your hand
you carry the bottle of green liquid taken from the
skeletal hand. The glass stopper has popped out in
your struggles with the vine and you decide to take
a sip. The liquid tastes sweet and you pour the
remaining drops into your mouth. Miraculously,
this seems to have the desired effect! One by one the
vines release you!

The green liquid you found was, however, not
specially formulated to repel Gluevines. The
Gluevine tunnel was constructed by Forest Imps as
atrap. Gluevines are very useful for traps of this sort
as they have the ability to tell whether or not the
prey they catch is fit for consumption. Any animal
not fit for consumption is not entangled or — as in
your case — released. For if you were to be eaten by
the Forest Imps, you would doubtless poison them
as they eat. The liquid you have drunk is in fact a
slow-acting poison, the effects of which you are
only now able to feel. You clutch your stomach and
double over. Minutes later, you die an agonizing
death.

215-216

215
“You can go after that thing, whatever it was, if you
like,’ says Grog, looking quite worried. ‘But I’d just
like to get out of here safely.’ Return to 267 and
make your next choice.

216

Thugruff takes you into a room where you both sit
down at a table. A short while later someone arrives
with a large bowl full of meaty broth and places it
before you on the table. You catch the smell from the
broth. Hobbit! Ravenously you grab the bowl! and
pour its contents into your mouth. The broth is hot
and burns your throat, but you may add 5 STAMINA
points for the meal. Thugruff tells you about his
legions. Half of his forces are now with Zharradan
Marr in a great floating ship known as the
Galleykeep. It is cruising over the Forest of Spiders
searching for the Rainbow Ponds, for the village of
Stittle Woad is near the Rainbow Ponds. If you are
lucky, he promises, you may even get to join Marr
on the Galleykeep. Meanwhile you are deciding what
you will do next. Thugruff takes you outside and
offers to give you some instruction in weapon tech-
nique. Do you want to take him up on his offer (turn
to 271), or will you make plans to leave the Testing
Grounds (turn to 455)?

217

217
You step over to the two boxes and shake one of
them. Something soft and heavy bumps about in-
side. This arouses your curiosity and you search for
a means of opening the box. But none is apparent.
In your frustration, you tip the box over and it
crashes to the ground. Yourattention focuses on the
wider end as a splitting sound from within the box
gets louder. Suddenly a crack appears in the wood!
Then another! Finally, the front of the box smashes
apart and your eyes widen as they catch sight of the
hideous thing within . . .

A human shape appears — or rather, something
resembling a human corpse. But it is not dead, as its
thin lips are slowly curling back to reveal sharp teeth
and a forked tongue. In an instant, the creature
suddenly sits bolt upright and turns its head
towards you! Its eyes flick open.

‘Whpodj st v rbsut hfer fs tep fothfec vrs fwjtchfs.
Fpvl ucrfbt vrfey pvudbb bif ew jthi whb tayp vudp
on pt ovn df rst bnd. Npn femb yajntf rffrfew jthi pv
rupfbc fesbv fefpr ozh b rrbdbn ambrra th fe mbstfr.
Yp vu mvstubf etb vghtutpo rfspfc te thfe slff
pepfoth fey ndfbda bn day pvum vstub fem bdfe
tpo ffflet hfewr bth apfo thf ecvrsfw jt chfs.’

The creature’s eyes fix on to your own. They glow
white and you find you cannot break from the gaze.
When its eyes finally close, you feel strangely light-
headed. As if in a trance, you step away from the
comer and head towards the door in the east wall.
You open it, step through and it closes behind you.

218-219

Only then do your thoughts return to normal. But
you are far from normal. You have been cursed and,
until you are able to find someone who can remove
the curse, your Initial sk1LL has been reduced by 2
points and your Initial stAMINA by 5. If your
current SKILL and STAMINA points exceed these
limits, you must reduce them as necessary. Now
you may continue by turning to 436.

218
You plan to drag the body down the short passage-
way to the south. You bend down to grip the lifeless
figure. But instead of responding to your wishes,
you find that your body has other ideas of its own.
Turn to 399.

219
You hold up your Ring of Truth before him and his
tone changes. He shifts nervously from side to side.
‘Er, perhaps I have not remembered things quite
accurately,’ he stammers. ‘It is not true that the
Galleykeep comes to ground near here. It hardly ever
comes to ground, for then itis too vulnerable, There
are only two ways that I know of to get on board the
Galleykeep. Every day, the ship goes gathering food
for the crew, | have seen their catapult traps, which
are scattered all around these woods. If you get
yourself caught in a trap, you will be hoisted on
board. All over the forest, they are. Alternatively
you can search for Thugruff’s Testing Grounds and
have yourself recruited into the crew.’

219

Weaseltongue backs away from you across the

clearing. ‘Ermm, 1... ah... suspect,’ he stam-
mers, ‘that you wish to find Zharradan Mar and you
wish me to help. ThatI cannot . . .’ His face makes a

grimace as he glances at the ring ‘Of course. I must
tell you what I know. For the Ring of Truth was
forged by Elven smiths. If meet Zharradan you
must, you will find him on the Galleykeep in a room
with a certain symbol on the door. I know not this
symbol, but I do have a clue as to its nature, con-
tained in the words of this rhyme:

‘When fire meets ice, who ends the fight?
Who stands between the twa?

His symbol keeps them both apart,

Not red, nor white, but blue.

‘know no more that will help you,’ he adds hastily.
‘And now I must be going!’ He holds up his hand as
a parting gesture and turns into the woods. You
watch him go. Ahead, the path continues to the
north, but you can see through the trees that it
splits, one path heading to the east and the other to
the west. Do you want to head north and then turn
either to the east (turn to 272) or to the west (turn to
139), or would you rather ignore the path and set off
through the undergrowth (turn to 189)?

220-221

220

You are suspicious of this mysterious figure. You
back out of the arch and poke your head into the one
next to it. This one is also dark. But from somewhere
in the darkness you can see a faint glittering, as if
tiny raindrops are sparkling as they fall. You
cautiously step in to investigate. You reach a pile of
rubble lying on the ground. Stones are scattered
about as if from a wall which has recently collapsed.
You could easily cross the rubble and make for the
twinkling lights. While you are considering
whether or not to do so, a crash is followed by a
shower of dust as a rock falls from the ceiling! Will
you climb through regardless, to investigate the
glittering lights (turn to 56), or will you leave this
alcove and try another (turn to 85)?

221
You cautiously make your way across to the far side
of the bridge where, with a great sigh of relief, you
step on to safe ground again. You rest for a few
moments and then turn west to continue. But your
eye catches sight of footprints which seem to head
not towards the bridge, but to the edge of the ledge
you are now standing on. Looking more closely,
you can see that, just over the edge, a series of rocks
protrude from the side of the chasm as rough stairs.
They lead down to a hole in the cliff. Lf you wish to
climb down the steps, the going will be perilous, as
they are narrow and there is nothing to hold on to.
Otherwise, the westward passage leads you on fora
few paces to a strong wooden door with iron fasten-

222-223

ings. Will you attempt to force your way through
the door (turn to 425), or would you like to investi-
gate the steps leading down to the hole in the side of
the chasm (turn to 313)?

222
‘Failed!’ cries one of the witches from between black
teeth. ‘The creature has failed! It has no root!
Hyaaahhhh hee heeyah! Its future is ordained. Let us
be gone. The creature deserves no higher destiny.’
The wind sweeps through the branches of the tree
with the force of a gale. But as quickly as it rose up, it
dies and soon all is still. The Women of Dree are
gone! Unsure of what has happened to you, you
settle down once more and drift off to sleep.

When you awake the next morning, the disturbance
in the nightis but a faint memory of a bad dream. As
the rising sun warms the air, you set off. Add 4
STAMINA points for the rest and follow the path
heading north-east, signposted towards ‘Bu Fon
Fen’. Turn to 134.

223

The bodies are a little scrawny, but still provide
welcome food. You may gain 4 STAMINA points for
your meal. While you were eating, you also poked
through the bodies of the adventurers, but found
nothing of particular importance. Suddenly, a glow-
stone lights in the passageway ahead of you! A tiny
face pokes round the bend and surveys the scene.
You see the face only for a moment, but its effect is
immediate. Turn to 403.

224-225

224

You follow her round the back of a dirty hovel. The
stale smell of human sweat wafts from the run-
down shack and round the back you nearly tread on
a wild-haired semi-human creature which is lame
and cannot move. The wretched thing jabbers at
you in meaningless whelps, but you ignore it and
concentrate on the woman’s plight. She shows you
an overturned barrel which has evidently fallen
from a platform behind the house. ‘’Twas the wind
last night,’ she moans. ‘The barrel fell with a terrible
crash! ’Twas full; and it landed on poor Shanga here
who was tied up beneath it. Can you put it back for
me?’ You grasp the barrel around the middle and
climb the frame carefully. When you have replaced
the barrel, you step down, ready for your reward.
‘Let me see . . .’ she muses. ‘Promised you Healing
Potion, is that not so? But would you prefer a Potion
of Fortune? Perhaps you would. Well?’ Which would
you prefer? The Potion of Healing (turn to 196) or
the Potion of Fortune (turn to 294)?

225
Your curiosity aroused, you step up to the device
and study it. It does not seem to be a weapon of any
kind. There is a polished, clear glass at each end.
You place your eye up to the narrowest end and
peer through. To your amazement you can see
the trees in the forest far below as clearly as if you
could reach out and touch them! Birds - and the
occasional noisy Treehoppper — flit about between
the branches and spring for cover as the Galleykeep's

226-228

shadow passes over them. In a small clearing you
can see a thin, white-haired figure stepping into a
pond of pink water, but again, as the ship’s shadow
comes into view, the figure darts off for cover in the
woods, You are fascinated with your discovery and
you spend time scanning the tree-tops with the
device. Turn to 302.

226

Undead creatures do not die. After the battle, their
battered remains slink back into the graves from
which they came and the stones shift back into
posifon. Perhaps you have won this battle, or
perhaps they are simply regenerating within their
graves, Either way you decide not to wait to find
out. Will you take the path to the east into the wood?
If so, turn to 261. If you wish to try looking around
the rest of the graveyard for anything unusual, turn
to 67.

227
You follow the passage back to the junction and turn
left in the direction indicated by the arrow. Turn to
142.

228
You lie back and relax while the physician pours the
potion into your mouth. You become drowsy and
eventually drift off into a peaceful sleep. Almost
immediately, you start to have a disturbing dream,
in which you are lying down and being attacked by
knives wielded by a skeletal hand. You struggle to

229

escape, but your movements are slow and ineffec-
ive. Again and again the knives are driven into
your chest and abdomen.

The shock makes you wake up immediately. You
are unable to move atall. All you can do is watchasa
specimen jar is held over your chest and a bony
hand drops an organ into it. The organ is beating
and the thub-thub, thub-thub noise fills your ears,
Your last perception of life is watching your own
heart slowly stop beating.

229

The trail eventually takes you to a pair of large metal
gates. Through the bars of the gates you can see a
large fortified building, but there are no signs of life.
You are looking for some sort of clue as to what
place this is when . . . pop! Suddenly a creature has
appeared out of thin air and is opening the gate for
you! In size, he is taller than a Hobbit but smaller
than a human. He is thin and dark, with a withered
face. Although he does not glance up at you, he is
talking away: ‘Come in. I hope you have not been
kept waiting. Oh dear, I shall be in trouble if you
have been waiting long. Let me take you to Thug-
ruff. Fine day, isn’t it? Follow me. Er, do you have
any smoking-weed? No, of course not. Here we
are...’ You follow the twittering little creature
round the back of the building into an open court-
vard.

As you turn the corner, you stop in your tracks. The
grounds are milling with creatures: Goblins, hu-

229

mans, Orcs, Elves, the odd Rhino-Man, Lizard Men
and many others, talking, exercising and practising
with weapons. In the centre of things, a huge, burly
Half-Troll in a black tunic is moving between the
groups and barking orders. Your guide pushes
through the crowds and grabs the Half-Troll’s tunic.
‘Thugruff! A visitor!’ He grunts and turns to you. “A
visitor, eh? Hrmmph. Were you kept waiting at the
gate?’ he asks, aiming a fiery glance at the little
creature.

You shake your head. ‘So you’ve come to join us
have you?’ he continues. ‘Marr’s legions could do
with the sort of strength I can see in those arms.
Let’s see what you can do. Eleven! Over here!’ Each
of the legionnaires wears a medallion around his
neck with his own number on. A lightly armoured
human wearing number eleven comes over carrying
a sword in one hand and a mace in the other. ‘All
right, Eleven,’ chuckles Thugruff, who evidently
despises the man. ‘Let’s see how you fare against
our friend here.’ Eleven looks at you and gulps. A
circle forms around you and you must fight:

ELEVEN SKILL 7 STAMINA 9

When either of you is reduced to a STAMINA score
of 2, turn to 352.

230-232

230
Your vengeance on the Clawbeast is not yet com-
plete. You must satisfy your lust for the spoils of
victory! You kneel by its side and feast on the flesh
of your victim. You may add 2 STAMINA points for
the meal; then turn to 165.

231
The Manic Beast’s meat is a little bitter for your
king but it provides a satisfying meal. You may add
45TAMINA points. Now turn to 293.

232
Your first step into the dark-coloured slime makes
vou shiver. It is considerably colder than the lighter-
coloured variety. You quicken your pace and con-
Hnue northwards. The dull light of the glowstones
kets you see that your chilly ordeal will soon be over.
A few paces ahead, a step takes you out of the
strange slime and on to dry ground. You step up
eagerly and peer ahead into the bluish gloom for
some clue as to where you are heading. You can just
make out an arched doorway ahead, and you soon
reach a solid door of thick timbers and sturdy metal
fastenings. You can hear irregular heavy breath-
ing coming from something behind the door. The
breathing is punctuated by occasional resonant
snorts, and the overall impression is of danger!
Something large is behind the door! Will you charge
the door, prepared for anything within (turn to
263)? Or will you ignore this room and head back
down the passage to take the easterly way you
tound earlier (turn to 19)?

233-234

233

While you are groping around the end of the pass-
ageway, you suddenly notice a slight humming
coming from your pendant! It is vibrating and, as
you move towards one particular spot, the vibration
becomes stronger. You grasp the talisman and
watch as the blue stone begins to glow. Finally, a
beam of blue light shoots from the pendant and
lights up an area of rocky wall. You feel around the
area and your hand comes to rest on a small hidden
catch. When you flick the catch, the dead end before
you comes to life! Smoke hisses from the crevices
around the wall, forcing you to step away from it.
When the smoke clears, a gap has appeared in the
rock-face; an eerie green light lights up a narrow
passage beyond. Will you step through and explore
the secret passage? If so turn to 369. Or would you
rather return to the crossroads and take either the
way to the north (turn to 443) or the way to the east
(turn to 50)?

234

You approach the smaller of the two pug-nosed
creatures and prod it with your foot. Its lifeless body
shrugs and lies still. But a similar prod on the
leather-armoured adventurer’s leg produces a start-
lingly different result. A shrill screeching sound
shocks you to attention! As if this were some kind of
signal, something starts to happen in the room.
Three shapes begin to materialize in front of you.
Turn to 447.

235

235

In the heat of the battle, you have forgotten all about
the little Half-Orc, who has disappeared. Then your
attention is captured by his familiar figure making
its way through the reeds behind the Toadmen.
Grog is creeping round the back of the circle. You
glance around. No one has noticed him! From the
corner of your eye you watch as he takes off his
knapsack and lays it on the ground by the trail, then
steps stealthily through the reeds towards the Toad-
man leader. When the time is right, he takes a flying
leap! As fate would have it, one of the Toadmen
notices the Half-Orc at that very moment, and his
trident flies through the air and sinks into Grog’s
neck in mid-flight. The Half-Ore dies instantly.

But the trident does not prevent his body from
continuing through the air to collide with the Toad-
man leader, who tumbles into the Sinkpit in the
centre of the clearing! When this happens, the Toad-
men forget all about you and rush about, trying to
prevent their leader from sinking. You take advan-
tage of the situation and creep round the outside of
the clearing. You pick up the poor Half-Orc’s knap-
sack and make off along the trail.

A short while later you are leaving the marshes.
When you are well away from danger, you become a
little curious about what Grog carried in his knap-
sack. There is certainly something solid in there.
You pull back the top and reach inside. Your fingers
touch a wooden box and you pull it from the bag. It
is closed with a delicate clasp which your awkward

236

fingers cannot open. But apart from the box, Grog
also carried a small vial of Potion of Fortune. If you
wish, you may drink this and it will restore your
LUCK to its Initial level. Then you may proceed by
turning to 92.

236
You ring the bell on the desk and scan the room
suspiciously, waiting for something to happen.
Nothing does. You watch both doors carefully.
Again you try ringing the bell, but again there is no
response. Your attention begins to wander towards
the specimen shelves and the bookcase and you
step over to the latter to look at the books. The
largest volume is entitled Practical Anatomy of the
Creatures of North-western Allansia by Doctor Quim-
mel Bone. The book next to it is by the same author
andis entitled Transmutation Theory — Fact or Fantasy?

A voice comes from behind you: ‘Most definitely
fact . . .’ The voice startles you and you spin round
to face the desk. ‘I see you are interested in my
works,’ says the skeletal figure sitting behind it,
teeth clattering excitedly. The hanging skeleton has
disappeared — or rather is now sitting at the desk. 1
am Quimmel Bone, physician and surgeon on the
Galleykeep. Now, what do you want in here?’ Will
you spring over to attack him (turn to 31), or will you
indicate to him you have some ailment which you
would like him to treat (turn to 297)?

237

237

As you shuffle around the wail of the cavern, you
suddenly notice a strange sensation coming from
your neck. The pendant you picked up is beginning
to vibrate slightly and is giving out a faint hum! But
when you continue around the wall, the vibration
fades until the pendant is once more still. You
puzzle over this for a few moments and step back to
where you were before. Again, the vibrations and
humming come from the pendant and you pause to
look at what is happening. The dull blue stone set
in its centre is beginning to glow and you watch in
amazement as its colour changes from blue to a
living red, as though a fire were burning inside it!
An instant later, a single beam of red light shoots
from the stone to a point on the wall in front of you.
Following its direction, you can see what seems to
be a piece of rock hanging in mid-air! As if ordered
by the pendant, you grasp the rock and pull. Itis not
hanging in mid-air, but is attached to a rope and
your tug is answered by arumble in the rockin front
of you. A doorway is opening!

The pendant you have found is in fact a magic
talisman which has a special power. It is able to
detect hidden doorways, In future, it will warn you
of the presence of secret doors, but you will have to
watch for the warning signs! If you reach a reference
which begins: ‘You find yourself . . .’ then you may
look for a secret passage using the talisman’s help.
Add 20 to the reference you are on at the time and
turn to this new reference. Ifa secret door is present,
the new reference will make sense and the talisman

238

will show you its secret (if the new reference makes
no sense, then there is no secret door). If you are
able to, you may add 1 Luck point for finding the
secret door.

You may now either enter the secret door you have
just found (turn to 458) or return to 257 to continue
on your way.

238

You creep as close as possible to the Ophidiotaur
and finally spring out of the foliage at it! The startled
creature is caught unawares. It splashes in the water
and kicks high with its hind legs. But its fright is
momentary. The creature rapidly composes itself
and turns towards you, tail swinging and tongue
darting in and out of its wide open mouth, in which
two dangerous-locking fangs are poised to strike.
It is ready for battle and you must resolve your
combat:

OPHIDIOTAUR

The creature has a stinging tail which it lashes at
you. Each time the Ophidiotaur rolls a double when
attacking, its tail stings you for 2 STAMINA points of
damage (irrespective of whether it wins or loses that
Attack Round), unless you Test for Luck and are
‘Lucky (you may choose whether or not you wish to
Test for Luck). If you defeat the creature, turn to 416.

SKILL 9 STAMINA 8

239-240

239
You take the path carefully through the cavern so as
to avoid any danger. The path leads out through a
nafrow archway into a passage which you follow
east until you reach a junction where a side passage
leads southwards. Turn to 298.

240

Desperately you wrest yourself free from the Bugs
and you race off northwards up the passageway. As
you step away from them, you feel a sharp slice into
your ribs. Dark blood seeps out from the wound and
you must lose 2 STAMINA points. But you are now
out of range and, as you turna corner to the east, out
of sight as well. You turn south, then west. But as
you turn the next corner, your heart sinks. Another
of the creatures is arriving for its meal! To get past,
you will have to defeat the Bug:

CARRION BUG SKILL 7 STAMINA 6

If you defeat it, turn to 227.

A

}

241-242

241
As soon as you enter the room, two Blood Orcs —
warty creatures with powerful jaws and piercing
front teeth — get up from a table and grab their
swords. A voice is coming from behind them and
vou look up to see an elderly human with dirty
robes and a long white beard groping the air in front
of him and calling out: “‘Whpojs ijt. Whb tajs i hbp
pfinjng. W hbta hb sad jstvr bf devs. PIf bsfe gpdor fl
fbsf ethjs iblb cka fyfec vrsf.’ You must resolve your
fight with the Blood Orcs, who are now upon you.

They both attack together:

SKILL STAMINA
First BLOOD ORC 7 7
Second BLOOD ORC 8 7

If you defeat them, turn to 7.

242

In a state of panic, you lumber towards the door as
quickly as you are able. The Shadow Stalker,
however, is quicker and its knife finds your back as
you flee. Lose 3 STAMINA points. When you reach
the archway, your two shadows separate. The
Shadow Stalker becomes faint as the light fades. In
the light of the glowstones you hardly casta shadow
at all and this seems to worry the creature. It slips
back along the wall into the room and settles on the
floor. You blink and look again. The creature now
looks like a pile of black cloth! You turn and leave
the room, still not certain of what has happened.
Eventually you reach the junction and continue
westwards. Turn to 30g.

243-246

243
The four creatures taunt you as you back away from

the Elf. Though you feel anger building up inside,
you manage to contain it and walk away. Your
‘cowardice’ is not without its consequences. Lose 1
SKILL point for as long as you remain within the
fort. You may regain the lost sKILL point if and
when you leave. Now turn to 348.

244

You continue east until you reach a junction, where
another path joins from the north. There is a sign-
post at the junction. The sign pointing northwards
reads ‘Coven’. To the south the sign reads ‘Bilge-
water’, though no path runs that way. To the east
the sign reads ‘Testing Grounds’. Which way do
you wish to go: north (turn to 191), south (turn to 57)
or east (turn to 12)?

245
You search the rough rocky walls for some time but

find nothing. Frustrated with your lack of progress,
you return to the crossroads. Will you now head
north (turn to 354) or east (turn to 310)?

246
The charts and maps are no doubt vitally important,
but you cannot decipher them. In the drawers of the
desk are papers, books and drawing-equipment.
But one drawer is locked and you cannot open it.
You grasp the handle and tug. But the drawer is
firmly locked and does not budge. Again you heave

247-248

at it but this time you only succeed in pulling the
handle away from the front of the drawer! Your
anger mounts and you flex your claws. You will
smash up the desk to get into the drawer. The
timbers split after your first blow. Turn to 302.

247
A surge of anger rushes through you. You step over

to the nearest head, flex your claws and slash across
its face. As your claws fix in the soft flesh, it flies
from its perch out of the light and out of sight. You
hear no sound to indicate that it hit a wall or landed
on the floor. A menacing laugh comes from the
voice, which sounds as though it is just over your
shoulder. You spin round, but see nothing. The
voice simply continues its mocking laugh. You turn
back and gasp with surprise when you see that the
head has returned to its position! At the same time,
vou feel a wave of pain spread right through your
body. Every muscle is in agony! A few moments
later, the pain subsides, but the aches remain, You
must lose 2 STAMINA points. Will you now leave
the room through the secret passage (turn to 79), or
will you attack one of the other heads (turn to 9}?

248
You stand up, ready to leave the area. After glanc-
ing left and right to make sure you are alone, you
turn towards the westerly passage. At least, you fry
to turn. But your body will not respond. Instead itis
bending down towards the lifeless Dwarf on the
ground. Turn to 399.

249-251

249
You tuck into your meal. The meat is rather tough,

as it is no doubt several days old. But while you are
eating, something catches your attention. Tied
around the human’s waist you find a small leather
pouch which contains 2 Gold Pieces. You may take
these with you; and you gain 4 STAMINA points
from the meal. Your attention is also captured by
two glass flasks lying by the side of the unfortunate
human. Though they have been battered in the
struggle, they are not broken and each contains a
coloured liquid. lf you would like to drink the green
liquid, turn to 318. If you would prefer to drink the
blue liquid, turn to 350. If you wish to drink neither,
you may continue by turning to 293.

250
The sack can be used to carry anything you may find
during your journey. From now on you may ignore
any instructions which tell you that you can only
take one item from, for example, a room. Leave the
room now by turning to 394.

251
You step over to the miserable Half-Orc and kick the
creature viciously for daring to bump into you. A
great cheer goes up from the crowd of onlookers
‘Leave him be, creature,’ says the bare-chested vil-
lager. ‘I will finish the muck-faced womm off.’ But his
words are too late. You are locked in battle with the

creature:

252
HALF-ORC
If you defeat the creature, turn to 367,

SKILL 6 STAMINA 6

252

You enter the hut and find yourself in a room
decorated with intricately woven cloths in rich
colours, which hang from the walls and ceiling,
making the room itself dark and mysterious. A long,
thin stick smoulders ina brass pot which stands ona
table at one end of the room and as it burns it gives
off a heavy, perfumed smell. There is also a pack of
cards on the table, next toa clear glassy orb. You can
see the hanging cloths behind the table rustling and
a voice breaks the silence: ‘Who calls on the powers
of Rosina of Dree? Who wishes to know his destiny?
Speak!’ You wait and watch as an old woman,
plump and stooped, shuffles out from behind the
curtain into the room. She is dressed in brightly
coloured robes and she sits down behind the table.
She squints as she tries to focus on you.

‘Far from your home you have come to speak with
Rosina,” she smiles, ‘And much further have you
yet to travel. Now you have found me, I may guide
you to fulfilling your destiny. But will you pay

price?’ She will read your fortune, but only if you
have money to pay with. She will charge 2 Gold
Pieces. If you have the money, turn to 12. If you
wish to fight the woman, turn to151. Otherwise you
may leave by turning to 386,

253-255

253

The building has been disused for some time. Long
benches have been smashed to provide firewood
and there is the remains of an old fire in the centre of
the hall. High on the walls, windows made of
coloured glass have been broken and there are
many holes in the roof. But apart from this there is
little of interest. You leave the building and may
either return to the stones (turn to 198), or head on
past them into the wood (turn to 261).

254

An angry sneer spreads across your face and you
step over to the Weather Mage, claws poised to
strike. He backs away from you and holds his hand
up. ‘Idiot creature,’ he scoffs. “Do you think one so
brainless could possibly challenge one so well
versed in the mystic arts? I will enjoy toying with
your life. It will be fine sport.’ You slash at him as he
steps back and catch him across the arm. A red stain
spreads across his sleeve, but he has hardly noticed
your blow. His head has turned to face the ceiling;
his eyes are closed. As you prepare to strike once
more his eyes open. They are shining white! Will
you continue with your attack (turn to 47), or will
you quickly leave the room (turn to 459)?

255
‘Wait!’ cries Grog as you start across the clearing.
‘Look at this. Notice how all the footprints avoid the
centre of the clearing? Perhaps itis unsafe. I suggest
we keep to the outside.’ You follow him round the

256-257

edge of the clearing towards the trail you have
chosen. Have you chosen the trail to the north (turn
to 267) or the trail to the north-east (turn to 114)?

256
Breathing heavily, you rise to your feet and stand
over the body of the Chaos Warrior. Your attention
turns to the Black Elf who is once more blowing his
whistle for reinforcements. Instantly another Chaos
Warrior appears in the doorway ready for battle.
You must resolve your fight with him:

CHAOS WARRIOR

If you win, turn to 39.

SKILL 8 STAMINA 7

257

You cannot see a thing. Your feet shuffle noisily
through the straw which covers the floor, as you
grope around the walls for a way out. If this cavern
is the lair of another creature, then you may well be
walking straight towards it! But you hear no sounds
other than your own and eventually you reach a
hole in the rock, which is large enough for you to
walk through and leads to a passageway. You con-
tinue slowly along the passage, still groping your
way, but you stop when a blue light flicks on in front
of you. The welcome hue of a glowstone makes you
blink and turn away until your eyes become accus-
tomed to the light. When you are finally able to take
in your surroundings, you find that you are at a
junction where you may turn either to the east (turn
to 61) or to the west (turn to 309).

258-259

258

With bared teeth and claws at the ready, you storm
along the passage towards them. They stand their
ground, draw their weapons and prepare them-
selves for battle. The leading adventurer lays a
brown sack on the ground and raises his weapon as
you approach. You must fight both adventurers one
at a time; the passageway is not wide enough for
them both to attack:

SKILL STAMINA
WARRIOR 8 te)
FIGHTER IN
LEATHER ARMOUR

If you defeat them both, turn to 43.

7 8

259

You wrench the bracelets from the wrists of your
foe. They make a tinny clinking sound as you turn
them over in your hand and you admire the intricate
carvings which decorate them. Even in the meagre
light of the glowstones, they shine in an alluring
way. You can make them wide enough to fit around
your own wrists, and when you have put them on,
you proudly hold them up before you and turn
them this way and that. You may discover during
your travels that these bracelets have a special
ability, which will be revealed to you later. Add
1 LUCK point for your find. Now turn to 115.

260-262

260

Some inner instinct of self-preservation takes over
from your fury and tells you that this Elf bowman is
not to be trifled with. You turn from him and speed
back down the corridor. However, you manage no
more than five steps before you realize that your
attempts to escape are futile. Ahead of you, four
more Dark Elves bar the passageway, all with bows
drawn and aimed at your chest. You are confused!
Which way should you turn? But your confusion is
short-lived. At a signal from their leader, arrows
zing from all four bows. Their aim is good. Three of
the four shafts pierce your heart . . .

261
The path takes you along towards the trees. You
pass a sign on the edge of the forest, which reads
‘Knot Oak Wood’. Once in the wood, the going is
more difficult as the light is obscured by the tall
trees. If you wish to rest by one of the trees, turn to
362. if you would prefer to keep going, turn to 162.

262

You step over to the door in the north wall. But as
you grasp the handle, a deep creaking sound comes
from behind you. You swing round to see the door
in the east wail slowly opening. Glowstones in the
passage beyond the door flick on to light up your
way. You cannot resist this invitation, and you leave
through the east door. Turn to 49.

263

263
The door shudders under your charge but does not
open. Lose 1STAMINA point. You try again and this
time the bolt is torn from the frame. The door flies
open and you step into the room, ready for the
creature inside. The room itself has a door in each
wall. Scattered around one corner is an untidy pile
of bones. In another corner is a half-eaten human
carcass. Standing over the carcass — and evidently
annoyed that its meal has been disturbed —is a bulky
creature with a hairy face, razor-sharp teeth and
wild eyes. As you enter, it turns to attack and you
must resolve your battle with the Manic Beast:

MANIC BEAST SKILL 7 STAMINA 8

The Manic Beast is so called for its tremendous
bursts of rage. Each time you inflict a wound on the
Manic Beast, its anger will rise for the next Attack
Round, and you must add 2 to the dice roll when it
tolls for Attack Strength. If you wound it again
during this next Attack Round, it will retain the
bonus for the next Round, but if you do not, its
temper returns to normal and the bonus is lost. If
vou defeat the Manic Beast, turn to 209.
264-266

264

Your final blow passes through thin air and the
image of Rosina disappears slowly from view. A
smile spreads across the face that you thought was
showing the signs of exhaustion from defeat. The
smile turns into a laugh, then a cackle and finally
fades. You have been fighting a phantom! But your
own wounds are real. Startled by this sorcerous
trick, you leave the hut quickly and head down the
trail back to the crossroads. Turn to 386.

265

Holding your breath to avoid the awful stink com-
ing from the river below, you step on to the bridge
and test its strength with your weight. The bridge
seems strong enough. You take a few paces across.
Eventually you are forced to breathe again and in
the centre of the bridge you take a quick breath. The
smell of the river once more hits you and you
stagger. Your foot slips on the edge of the bridge
and you must Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn
to 418. If you are Unlucky, turn to 60.

266
The figure drops to the floor and lies in a dark heap
at your feet. Do you wish to investigate the body
(turn to 194), or will you instead search the room
(turn to 105)?

267-268

267

You follow the trail as it winds through the reeds.
More than once a slippery Swampsnake slithers
across your path, but thankfully they have no in-
terest in you. Several types of croaking noises can be
heard, but the one that worries you the most is a
loud, booming croak which sounds more like a
throaty belch, This particular sound is regular, and
similar croaks seem to echo it from various parts of
the marsh. Ahead of you, the trail is opening up asit
reaches a river-bank, where a wealth of colourful
plants line the river. But as you stand and watch the
nver flowing past, you notice a pair of eyes in the
reeds! Two large, bulbous eyes blink slowly as you
stare at them. When the owner of the eyes realizes
you have seen him, he turns and you can see a
bulky, rough-skinned shape — rather like a huge
stone — shuffle off noisily into the reeds. Will you
follow this creature (turn to 53), would you rather
investigate the plants by the side of the river (turn to
380), or do you want to leave as quickly as possible
(turn to 18)?

268
The door splinters and you stumble forward into a
dark room. As your eyes try to become accustomed
to the darkness, you hear a high-pitched clicking
noise coming from one corner. An instant later, the
same sound is coming from another corner. By now
your eyes are just about used to the low light and
you can make out two shapes, outlined in blue. One
is the door by which you entered, lit by the glow-

269-270

stones. The other is the rough shape of another door
in the north wall. The light around both these doors
is fading. Do you wish to step over to the north door
before the light fades (turn to 285), or would you
prefer to investigate the clicking sounds (turn to

383)?

269

Whiteleaf spits in contempt. ‘The ground is cursed
where that Ogre-breathed spirit Zharradan Marr
treads!’ he snarls. ‘It is my wish that the wind drops
suddenly and he drops with it — to his death! Marr
has sailed the accursed Galleykeep all his life, with its
foul crew of blood-lusting beast-men. Someone
should sabotage the floating hellpit, by holing its
hull. I know how to get aboard. The Galleykeep
comes to ground not far from here — just off to the
west — when the wind dies down. Nothing would
please me more than to see the accursed vessel
plummet from the sky and crash to the ground,
killing all on board’ The Elf finally picks himself off
the ground and dusts down his robes. He thanks
you again and leaves. Turn to 414.

270
You ignore the peasants and sit down in the field.
They continue their yelling and the stones still Jand
close by, but you are hungry! You grab an ear of com
and put the whole thing in your mouth. The
peasants dare not come too close to you, but they
will keep up their barrage of stones until you leave
their field. There is a chance you may be hit by one
and you must roll one die six times. Any time 6

271-272

comes up, you have been hit by a stone for 1
STAMINA point of damage. After you have rolled
the die six times, you can leave the field (turn to 87)
and you will gain 3 STAMINA points for your meal.
If, before you go, you wish to punish the peasants
for attacking you, turn to 421.

271

Thugruff sizes you up and picks a broad-handled
axe from his armoury. You take it and admire its
sharp blade. Thugruff himself picks up a smaller axe
and begins your instruction. You watch his techni-
que attentively. By the end of the lesson, you have
improved your skill considerably. Add 1 skILL
point. What are you planning for your future at the
Testing Grounds? If you wish to continue improv-
ing your skills unti] you are chosen for duties on the
Galleykeep, turn to 43. If you are plotting the right
moment to attack Thugruff, turn to 82.

272

You follow the path through the woods until you
reach a clearing. Here there is a small pond. The
water is not stagnant, as a small stream leads from it
deeper into the woods, and it is a favourite water-
ing-hole for the woodland birds, although they flit
high up into the branches when you arrive. The
water shines with a silver sheen and you can see
quite clearly the reflections of the tree-tops and
clouds. Will you rest here beside the pond and
perhaps drink from it? If so, turn to 176. If you
would prefer to pass by and continue along the
path, turn to 52,

273-274

273
You step up to the bones and sniff them. A shiver of

excitement runs through you: Hobbit bones! In
eager anticipation, you follow the passage south
until it reaches a point where it turns to the east. You
sniff for the scent of Hobbit and can smell some-
thing faintly in the air. At the next corner, the
passage turns north. Further on it turns west. The
smell of Hobbit is now getting stronger and you
eagerly follow the passageway round a corner to the
south. You reach another pile of bones on the
ground. You stop to look, but these are not Hobbit
bones. They are the bones of something much
larger, perhaps a human or even a Hobgoblin. The
passage ahead turns to the east. Will you follow it
(turn to 356), or would you prefer to go back (turn to
227)?

274
You head west out of the village. The peasants
walking towards you gasp when they see your
shape and cross over the road to avoid you. You
ignore them and continue. Ahead you can hear
sounds of excited voices coming from one of the
buildings. As you approach this hut, the sounds
become louder. You hear a sharp crack, the door of
the hut bursts outwards and a tumbling figure rolls
out of the door and straight into you! As the dark-
skinned Half-Ore picks himself up, another figure
steps through the doorway. This one is a broad-
shouldered human with a bare chest. The small
crowd behind the human is urging him to finish off

275-276

the Half-Orc, but the noise dies down when they
notice you. Will you join in the fight? If so, will you
come to the aid of the Half-Orc (turn to 291) or the
human (turn to 251)? If you do not wish to get
involved in the fight, you can leave them to it and
continue your journey by turning to 107.

275

The Black Elf realizes he is no match for your
strength and he suddenly pulls from his pocket a
small whistle, which he puts to his lips and blows.
The shrill sound can barely be heard and you take
advantage of the Elf’s distraction to grab him in
your claws. But before you can choke the hfe out of
him, his signal is answered and a larger creature
steps through the archway. This creature is covered
in heavy armour. Vicious spikes jut out from each
joint and a large, dark-eyed helmet reaches down to
its shoulders. It carries a two-handed axe, which it
now raises to do battle. You must ignore the Black
Elf and instead turn to face this Chaos Warrior:

CHAOS WARRIOR
If you defeat the creature, turn to 256.

SKILL 9 STAMINA &

276
You carefully try the door. It creaks onits hinges but
opens easily, allowing you into the room. You are
ready for the creatures inside and hope to surprise
them. But when you enter, it is you who are sur-
prised at what you see. Turn to 161.

277-278

277

You listen at the door and hear slithering noises
followed by chomping sounds. You step back for a
moment to consider what you have heard. You
decide to turn back in the direction you have just
come from. As you feel your way slowly along the
pitch-black passage, you are again startled by the
high-pitched twittering noise that you remember
from your last encounter with the small flying crea-
tures. You swat hopelessly at them and manage to
hit a couple. But one swoops down and catches you
painfully in the left eye! Fortunately your eye was
blinking at the time and it has not been permanently
damaged, but the bruise swelling up above your left
cheek will keep the eye closed for some time. You
must deduct 1 SKILL point. You may restore this
SKILL point if at some time in the future you reach
daylight. The attacks from the flying creatures con-
tinue and you decide to abandon this route and
make your way back to the door, Finding it once
more closed and barring your way, your jaw tight-
ens and your lips curl back in an angry snarl. Both
directions face you with danger and frustration! You
step back to take a leap at the door with your fists.
Turn to 101.

278
You try your best to pick the sticky Gluevines from
you and back out of the tangled mass of vegetation.
But it is hopeless. Eventually you give up, ex-
hausted, to recover some strength before trying

279-280

again. It is then that you hear the high-pitched
chattering of the Forest Imps who have come to
check their traps.

Twelve tiny faces peer into the tunnel. Small, green-
skinned faces grin excitedly at the sight of such a
large catch. Two spearmen advance cautiously up
the tunnel towards you. When they are close
enough, they jab towards your foot. You pull it
away to avoid being hit, but your actions are so
restricted that resistance will be hopeless. And as
soon as the spears pierce your skin with their deadly
poison, the effect will be immediate. Your adven-
ture has ended here.

279
You turn back towards the crossroads. On the way
back, you may stop to examine the orb, if you have
not done so already, by turning to 155. Otherwise
continue on to the crossroads and you may take
either the passage to the west (turn to 213) or the
passage to the east (turn to 50).

280
A short distance along the passageway you stop and
listen. Distant footsteps and the clanking of metal
warn you that creatures of some sort are heading in
your direction. Do you wish to return to the junction
and head north (turn to 371), or will you continue in
the direction you are heading (turn to 342)?

281-282

281

You poke around the bodies of the three dead
ruffians. Something shining on the wrist of the third
adventurer catches your attention. Clumsily you rip
at the clothing of all three, eventually exposing
three objects of interest. The leading adventurer
wore, around his neck, a pendant made of a dull,
dark metal ona leather thong. The third adventurer
wore two wrist bracelets of a shining yellow metal.
The other carried a pouch containing 12 small flat
discs of a shiny metal. Which of these is of the most
interest to you:

The dull metal pendant? Turn to 306
The two wrist bracelets? Turn to 259
The pouch containing the discs? Turn to 412

282
The walls of the tunnel become damp and glisten in
the odd half-light. You follow the passage until you
reach a point where it turns sharply southwards.
Continuing round the corner, you find that the light
has now almost totally faded, and you must feel
your way along the wall. Several paces down the
slimy corridor, you reach a dead end. The wall is
rocky and pocked with many nooks and crannies.
There is also a musty smell in the air of animal decay
— perhaps simply dead rats or maybe the remains of
something larger. Around your feet there are sever-
al loose stones. At least you assume they are stones,
but some are too long, thin and brittle to be shards of

283

rock. Your groping hand touches a length of rope,
which may be a clue to a way out of this dead end.
Will you pull it? Roll one die. If the result is 1-3, you
close your hand around the rope and pull it out
towards you (turn to 99). If you roll 4-6, you ignore
the rope, turn round and follow the corridor back
the way you came, continuing straight on past the
Clawbeast’s cave (turn to 372). If you wish, you
may, before rolling the die, decide to Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, you may choose which of the above
options you will opt for. If you are Unlucky, you
must roll the die to decide in the normal way.

283
You were able to understand the last sentence of the
spirit’s words as it has passed on its gift. Through-
out the book you will find coded speech. Now that
you have the gift of understanding, you can trans-
late the code. Otherwise all speech seems incompre-
hensible to your creature’s mind. The secret is this.
There are three rules to this code. Firstly, each
vowel is replaced by the following letter (thus A
becomes B, U becomes VY; etc.). Secondly, spaces
between words are replaced by the last vowel to have
been used. Thus all vowels mean nothing; they only
indicate spaces between words. Finally, the actual
spaces between words as they appear are entirely
random. They mean nothing and serve only to
mislead. With this information you may now con-
tinue by turning to 137. Add 1 Lucx point for this
discovery. But note this reference as you may want
to return to it later to translate code.

284-285

284
Two Goblins and two Elves are whispering secre-
tively to one another. You approach them and find
that they are passing something among themselves.
You cannot make out exactly what it is, but it is
metallic and shiny. You step up to the group, but
the four creatures close in to exclude you from their
conversation. Will you force your way into their
group (turn to 103) or leave them alone (turn to 348)?

285
As you move across to the door, the clicking sound
seems to dart away from you and travel to the far
side of the room. Your sharp claws slide from your
fingertips, and you are ready to attack whatever is
on the other side of the door. Something must have
activated the glowstones! You grasp the handle, yank
the door open and peer around. But the passage
in which you find yourself is empty. It heads on
northwards and widens out at a bend where it turns
to the east. You follow it slowly until you reach the
bend, the glowstones lighting your way. Then you
stop dead in your tracks! On the ground ahead of
you, in the centre of the bend, is a dark area which
seems to be shimmering in the blue light. Perhaps it
is a pool of liquid? Or perhaps it is some sort of dark
metallic substance? You may investigate if you wish
by turning to 445. If you would prefer to skirt the
dark circle, turn to 164.

286-287

286
Darramouss picks up a jar while he reads from the
book. He concentrates his thoughts and seems to
focus them on the jar. Then he reaches inside, pulls
out a handful of grains of rice and sprinkles them
over you. Before you can react, his spell has taken
place. The grains of rice have formed into Death
Maggots — small grubs with voracious appetites and
sharp teeth which will nip even your tough scales to
shreds! Scores of the tiny creatures are now feasting
hungrily on you and you desperately try to swat
them with your hands. Although you do succeed in
killing many of them, many more have wedged
themselves between your scales and even bored
into your flesh. You look up in agony at the undead
creature. But Darramouss will show no mercy. His
hand reaches into the jar and he tosses another
handful of rice over you .. .

287

As the Toadman staggers and falls, you see more of
the creatures hopping out from the reeds. What can
you do against so many? A stabbing pain in the back
reminds you that you will not have much choice in
the matter. One of the creatures is behind you,
jabbing you with a trident. Another steps forward
and speaks to you. ‘None may enter the fens of the
Toadmen,’ he announces. “Our marsh and our herb
gardens are holy. They are for no eyes but our own.
There is only one punishment for disobeying this
law. ThatisDEATH.. .’

288—290

There is nothing you can do against so many of the
creatures. You may fight and you may even slay a
few of the Toadmen. But their numbers will over-
whelm you. And when they have subdued you, you
will be dropped into the muddy Sinkpits of Bu Fon
Fen to die.

288
You keep your eyes on the Hobbit and wait for him
either to give up his watching or to become involved
in the conversation. But after no more than five
seconds, the waiting is unbearable! Your mouth is
now slobbering in excitement and your limbs are
twitching with the promise of the battle to come.
Though your mind wills your body to wait for a
safer moment, your body will not listen. Turn to 42.

289
You may add 4 sTaMINa points for the meal, and
then you leave the room by turning to 138.

290
As you stand against the wall, desperately search-
ing for a way onwards, you almost overlook the
strange things happening around your neck. For
the pendant you are wearing is beginning to vibrate
and is emitting a faint hamming sound! When you
suddenly become aware of the pendant, you look
down towards it to find out what is going on. When
you move away from the end of the passage, the
vibration fades; when you come closer, it increases
in intensity. You cannot understand what is going

290

on! An instant later, the jewel in the centre of the
pendant begins to glow. It changes in colour from
blue to fiery red. Suddenly a jet of red light bursts
from the jewel and lights up a metal rod which is
protruding very slightly from the side wall. You
grasp the rod and push it. A creaking sound is
followed by a deep rumbling as the wall ahead
begins to shift. The jewel returns to its former dull
blue appearance as the secret door opens. . .

The pendant you have found is in fact a magic
talisman which has a special power. It is able to
detect hidden doorways. In future, it will warn you
of the presence of secret doors but you will have to
watch for the warning signs! If you reach a reference
which begins: “You find yourself. . .’, then you may
look for a secret passage using the talisman’s help.
Add 20 to the reference you are on at the time and
turn to this new reference. Ifa secret door is present,
the new reference will make sense and the talisman
will show you its secret (if the new reference makes
no sense, then there is no secret door).

Now you must decide what to do. Will you go
through the secret doorway you have just dis-
covered? If so, turn to 331. If you would rather
return to the crossroads, you may do so and take
either the passage to the north (turn to 354) or the
passage to the south (turn to 212)

291-292

291
Gasps go up from the crowd as you step up to the
bare-chested human, your claws poised ready to
strike. He has no weapon apart from his bare fists.
The other villagers back away and leave the two of
you to battle it out. The Half-Orc is still picking
himself up, but shouts encouragement to you.
Resolve your battle with the human:

VILLAGER
If you defeat the human, turn to 438.

SKILL 7 STAMINA 8

292

Your reaction is immediate. The red-robed humanis
deep in thought and looks an easy target. You step
forward and swipe viciously at him with your claws!
He screams and falls to the ground, clutching at his
face. You look down at the undefended wretch and
prepare to deliver the death-blow. But at that mo-
ment, you feel a terrible sting in the back, which
causes you to bellow and swing round. The remain-
ing adventurer has lunged at you with his sword
and succeeded in piercing the scales and flesh on
your back! You must lose 2 STAMINA points for the
wound, and then you can face the Knight in plate-
armour:

ARMOURED KNIGHT
lf you defeat the Knight, turn to 446,

SKILL8 STAMINAG

OC Ls

293~294

293
You leave the room through a door in the east wall.
The door opens into a dingy corridor, which is quite
short and ends at a wooden door. When you listen
at the door, you can hear conversation rising and
falling in pitch as if two or three creatures (or
humans) were locked into a long discussion, This is
your only way onwards. Will you try the door and
attempt to creep slowly into the room (turn to 276),
or will you attempt to surprise whatever is inside by
oe into the room with claws drawn (turn to

294
She beckons you to follow her into her home. In one
corner of her kitchen, shelves hold dozens of bottles
of potions. She takes down a bottle containing a
straw-yellow potion and pours it into a bow! for you
to drink. The smell and the taste are awful, but you
manage to force it down. When the bow! is empty,
you turn to go.

‘But where are your manners? Wait a moment. I
must show you round your new home,’ chuckles
the old witch. You are confused, New home? But you
are beginning to feel differently about the ageing
crone and her hovel. Her voice is calming and
tuneful; the hut seems to offer comfort and shelter,
‘You will enjoy it here,’ she continues. ‘For you and
Tare meant for each other. Now that Shanga is of no
use, I must have another slave; otherwise how may I
keep this home? I will give you chores to do and |

will feed you well. Tonight we will feast on Shanga—

295-296

for he is dying anyway. You will enjoy spending
your life in Dree. And every day I will give you
another bow] of my special Potion of Obedience.’

295
Moments later, the fight has ended. The white-
haired creature lies unconscious on the ground,
while the Brigands rise and dust their hands. They
grin contentedly at each other. One of them says,
‘There — that will teach that puny sewer-snake to
send us in the wrong direction!’ The other nods and
they both leave the clearing along a path to the
north. You wait for them to disappear from view.
Then you step up to the white-haired figure, who is
badly beaten. If you are hungry, he will provide a
meagre, but tender meal for you, and you may add 3
STAMINA points. Then continue by turning to 414.

296

You step inside the room and look around. All sorts
of carefully collected objects of value are in the room
and you pick some of these up to look more closely
at them. Then the door slides shut with a rumble
and leaves you in complete blackness! Relying on
your talisman, you shuffle across to the area of the
door and hold it towards the wall. But this time
there is no reaction. No vibration; no blue light.
There is equally little reaction from the other walls.
It soon dawns on you why two long-dead skeletons
were leaning against the table. There is no escape
from the tomb you are now in! The next unwitting
visitor will find three skeletons in the room.. .

297-298

297

You indicate to him that your wounds hurt and that
you have a sore head. He invites you to lie down on
his bed. The bed is much too small for you, but you
manage to keep your balance and lie down while he
examines you. The physician rises jerkily from the
desk and totters quickly over to the bed, His bony
fingers probe the areas around your wounds and
rub the side of your head. ‘Hmmm. As I thought,’
he says, making an uncomfortable rasping sound as
he scratches his head. “Your body has a mild poison
circulating within it. I have an antidote.’ Quimmel
Bone clatters across to a drawer and takes out a
small flask. ‘Drink this,’ he orders. You hesitate, but
he is insistent and becomes angry at your refusals.
Will you drink the potion as he demands (turn to
228) or will you refuse and attack the creature (turn
to 31)?

298

You decide to choose the eastward passage, and
you follow it to a sharp bend to the right. Almost
immediately after the bend you find yourself at the
foot of a staircase and you climb the stairs carefully.
Then a corridor leads straight ahead southwards
until you reach a T-junction where you may turn
either east (turn to 373) or west (turn to 401).

299

299
You leave the building and set off west, the rising
sun warming your back. Once you have left the area
of the graveyard and the ruined chapel, the way
ahead looks bleak. The flat countryside is feature-
less except for the odd flat-topped T’annum tree and
occasional boulders which resemble grains of corn
on some gigantic field. You stop by one such
boulder to rest in its shade.

‘Scum! Scum! Rrrooaak! Be off with you, scum’
squeaks a tiny voice which makes you jump.
‘Rrrooaakk! Move on, dung-face. Show us yer back.’
You look round, but can see nothing. You stand to
search around the stone. ‘Rrroaarkkk! The vomit-
puddle walks! Go on, sewer-snake! Away!’ You are
bewildered by the voice, until you catch sight of a
small black Jabberwing bird, hopping round on the
top of the boulder. It opens its beak and again the
voice speaks to you: ‘Rrrooaaark! Make dust, goblin-
brain. Go north to Dree. Only Windward Plain out
to the west. Not much happening there. Rrroakk!
Well, what you waiting for, sewage-slime? GO!’
You have by now had enough of these insults. You
cannot catch the little creature and you are suf-
ficiently rested, so you set off. The creature is de-
lighted to see you go. You attracted a swarm of flies
while you were resting and the Jabberwing wants to
eat some - once you are safely out of the way!

You may add 2 STAMINA points for your rest.
Which way will you now continue: west (turn to 96)
or north (turn to 433)?

300

300

The door opens into a narrow passageway heading
north, and glowstones flick on to light your way.
Unlike the other passageways you have been
travelling along, this one has a cobbled floor. The
cobblestones feel smooth and pleasant for your
great feet to walk on, but you cannot ignore a feeling
of apprehension, since the stones must have been
laid by an organized and intelligent creature. You
follow the passage for a short while until suddenly a
loud CLANG sounds behind you and stops you
dead in your tracks! You wheel round to find that
a heavy portcullis has dropped behind you and
sealed off the passage. You step back to test it, but
the bars are much too strong for you to smash or
even bend. You have no choice: you turn round and
continue north up the corridor.

A little further ahead, you reach a crossroads. The
glowstones light up three ways onwards, but you
cannot see very far down the passages. Will you:

Continue northwards? Turn to 443
Try the passage to the east? Turn to 50
Try the passage to the west? Turn to 213

301-302

301
North of the building, the countryside is almost
featureless. After walking for some time, you come
across a solitary tree standing by the side of the
path. It has a dark brown — almost black — trunk and
its leaves are brilliant green. They shine unnatur-
ally, as if they might glow in the night. Among the
higher branches, large round fruits hang. You study
these, considering how you may get them down.
You are certainly not built for climbing trees, but
you may be able to shake one down. If you wish,
you may Test your Luck. If you are Unlucky, you do
not manage to shake any fruits from the tree. If you
are Lucky, one of the nourishing Chubbley tree
fruits falls to the ground. You may then eat this juicy
fruit and will gain 4 STAMINA points. When you are
ready to leave, turn to 45.

302

Suddenly, you stop what you are doing and listen.
Your ears have picked up a sound outside the door.
‘Ssshh!’ hisses one voice. ‘We must surprise the
creature, whatever itis. Remember whatit has done
to the gatherers. Get ready. Earth. . . water. . . fire

. and air!’ At that moment, the door cracks,
bursts from its lock and crashes back against the
wall to reveal a sea of ugly faces, straining to lunge
forward at you! “Take the creature!’ comes the cry,
and they flood forward, bellowing their baitle-
cries. You have no chance against this horde of
Hobgoblins and your adventure has ended here.

303-304

393

You ignore his words and investigate the scientific
instruments. But none of them mean anything to
you. The Weather Mage is outraged at this un-
invited intrusion. ‘Get out of here, beast,’ he
screams. ‘Did you not hear me? This is not a play-
room!’ He holds his head back and closes his eyes.
When he opens them, they are shining white. Will
you make a hasty exit from the room (turn to 459), or
will you wait to see what he is doing (turn to 47)?

304

You leave the building and continue past the yard of
stones. You join a path which leads east over a stile
and through a field of crops being gathered by
peasants. Heads bob up over the tops of the plants
as, one by one, the peasants notice your presence.
Screams come from a couple of the women and the
men rush towards you, hurling stones. They keep a
safe distance, but their missiles are landing close.
Will you quicken your pace and make off across the
field away from them (turn to 87)? Or will you react
to their attack by turning on them (turn to 421)? You
may also decide to settle down in the field and eat
some crops (turn to 270).

305-306

395

Thugruff recovers from the blow and staggers to his
feet. ‘So the truth is revealed,’ he pants. ‘Our quiet
friend has ambitions to replace Thugruff. But
this can never be. Zharradan Marr will never let a
stranger run his Testing Grounds, of this you can be
certain. And though you may defeat your ageing
teacher, you cannot defeat Marr’s legions!’ With
these words he reaches into his tunic, pulls out a
small whistle and blows it. You stop your attack.
Within moments, the legionnaires will be upon you!
From the castle they come swarming to rescue their
battlemaster in numbers that you may not even
hope to fend off. Mercifully, your death is swift at
the hands of the frenzied legionnaires.

306

You are fascinated by the ugly pendant. You care-
fully hook the leather thong with a claw and pull it
free of the adventurer’s head. You turn it over in
your hand and can see that itis circular, with a dull
blue stone setin the centre. You stare at the pendant
for some time, wondering what to do with it. Then
you remember how the adventurer wore it. You are
just able to squeeze it over your head and you carry
the pendant proudly around your neck. The pen-
dant has a secret, which will be revealed in due
course. If you reach a reference which begins: “You
cannot see a thing . . .’, deduct 20 from the refer-
ence number you are on at the time and turn to this
new reference. You may add 1 Luck point for this
find. Now turn to 115.

307-308

307

A trail has been cut through the bulrushes. Your
heavy feet splash along the marshy trail until you
reach a clearing. The going seems a little more solid
and you can see footprints — not human footprints,
but the large webbed footprints of some unknown
creature. From the clearing there are two ways on,
one to the north and one to the north-east. Which
will you choose: north (turn to 132) or north-east
(turn to 163)?

308

You travel west along a twisting passageway.
Several times you bump clumsily into the walls and
grunt in annoyance. But your tough scales protect
you from damage. The temperature drops notice-
ably and each breath sends steamy snorts from your
nostrils. After narrowing slightly, the passage
widens as it leads towards a chamber. A sound from
ahead and a flickering light warn you to take care.
But rather than making you stop to listen, the
prospect of an encounter seems to excite you! You
bare your teeth and your claws and stride forward
into the chamber. Turn to 205,

309-311

309
The passage continues west, then turns sharply to
the right. A few paces along the corridor you reacha
junction where you can go either west (turn to 280)
or north (turn to 371).

310

You cannot see a thing as you grope your way along
the passage. Your anger begins to rise and is near to
boiling when you reach a dead end ahead, Will you
search the dead end for a possible way onwards
(turn to 171), or return to the crossroads and take the
northern passage (turn to 354) or the southem
passage (turn to 212)?

311
The glowstones once more light your way as you
plod slowly north up the passageway. After a short
distance you see a shape ahead, slumped motion-
less on the ground. When you reach the spot, you
can see that these are the remains of a small furry
creature — about the size of the Dwarf you came
across earlier. It has probably been dead for some
time, but if you are hungry you may wish to feed on
it. If so, turn to 363. If you ignore it and continue,

312

312
The commotion on deck has attracted the attention
of other creatures. You can hear the sounds of
footsteps and a cacophony of growling voices
getting closer. You had better hide! Ahead of you is
a door leading from the deck and you step through
and close it behind you. You find yourself at the top
of a staircase leading down into the ship. You
carefully descend until you find yourself in a circu-
lar hallway with five doors leading from it. Behind
you, the voices are shouting angrily on the deck
above. They will soon be following you down the
stairs, so you had better choose a safer hiding-place
than the haliway! Each of the doors has a symbol on
it. To your immediate left, the symbol is a jug from
which water is pouring. The symbol on the next
door is a burning fire. The next door has the symbol
of a crown; the nexta delicate snowflake; and finally
the door to your right has a battle symbol on it: two
crossed swords, painted in blue. Which will you
choose:

The jug of water? Turn to 346
The fire? Turn to 29
The crown? Turn to 129
The snowflake? Turn to 158
The crossed swords? Turn to 111

None of these? Turn to 302

313-315

313
You lower yourself over the edge and on to the first
step. You sway a little, but gradually you become
accustomed to the awkward position and you take
the next step downwards. Once your head is below
the level of the ledge, you find you are able to lean
against the side of the chasm for balance and you
take the next few steps easily. However, the next
step is smaller than the others and is slightly further
away. This will be dangerous. Test your Luck. Lf you
are Lucky, turn to 65. If you are Unlucky, turn to

338.

344
You enter a short passageway which you follow toa
T-junction. You consider which way to turn. Turn to
298.

315
There are two ways on from this clearing and while
you are deciding which to take, you are startled bya
loud croaking noise which seems to come from
immediately behind you. You spin round to find
yourself facing a creature almost as large as you,
with a huge head on a puffed-out body with warty
skin. Its feet and hands are webbed. It opens a
cavernous mouth and lets out a deafening croak,
while its two glassy eyes blink slowly. In one hand it
grasps a trident and it seems to want you to back
into the centre of the clearing. But having seen the
sloshy mud in the centre of the clearing, you are not
sure whether you are all that keen to oblige. Will

316

you back towards the centre of the clearing as the
Toadman wishes (turn to 68), or would you rather
fight the creature (turn to 145)?

316

‘Be patient!’ he says, scratching his head. ‘Now
what was it to add next? Ah yes, Sculliweed! Now
where are those Sculliweed seeds?’ Your eyes
follow his round the room until they reach a jar
which has ‘Sculliweed Seeds’ on its label. The jar is
empty. ‘Damn! and damn again!” he curses. ‘Now I
shall have to visit those scoundrels in Dree to buy
more. Blast!’ He turns away from his pot and to-
wards you. ‘So much for my Potion of Fortune,’ he
says. ‘Not much use having a Potion of Fortune
without the luck herb. Right then, what can I do for
you. Oh, my goodness! You're a beast! Er, um...
Do you need a healing balm? Or perhaps you would
like me to remove a curse? Ah, just name it! -I’m
sure Euphidius can help.’ Will you allow him to use
healing balm on you (turn to 426), or do you want
him to remove a curse (turn to 188)? If you want
neither of these, you may leave him and head out of
the village by turning to 374.

317~318

317

You step through the door and reach out to feel
what sort of a place you are in now. Your scales
brush against rocky walls. It seems you are in a
passageway, and you step forward, steadying your-
self against the walls, and shuffle along the passage.
A snort of contempt comes from your nostrils, in
anger at your predicament. Your pace quickens as
your anger builds, untilsuddenly you trip over. You
spit out the foul taste of a mouthful of the jelly-like
slime into which you have fallen head first. Then
you raise yourself to your feet and lean against the
wall. Something is not quite right. A sharp pain
comes from your belly and you grip yourself with a
grunt of pain. Minutes later you are writhing in
agony on the floor, thrashing around in the slime!
Your thrashings are causing the poisonous slime to
fly all around you, and you cannot help but catch
more globs of the deadly substance in your mouth.
There is no escape from this lingering death...

318

You put the bottle to your mouth and gulp down the
liquid. Almost immediately, you begin to feel
strength flowing through your body. You have
discovered and drunk a Potion of Strength, and
it takes effect quickly. You may restore your
STAMINA to its Initial level. Now continue by
turning to 293.

319-321

319

You poke your head through the hole in the wall
and take a deep breath. The foul air makes you
cough deeply. You can hear far below the sounds of
running water and the smell coming from the filthy
river is overpowering. You pull yourself back into
the room. Will you now investigate the boxes (turn
to 217), push the boxes into the hole in the wall (turn
to 322) or leave the room (turn to 436)?

320
As their leader falls, the other two adventurers rush
to attack. One is a female warrior and the other is a
thief. Both are carrying shields and both attack you
at the same time: ~

SKILL STAMINA
WARRIOR 7 -
THIEF 8 6

If you defeat both of them, turn to 281.

321
You stand your ground and wait for the undead
creatures to arrive. Soon the shuffling stops and a
fist thumps the door. Claws raised, you are poised
to strike. The door swings inwards and a sea of dead
faces search you out with lifeless eyes. You lunge
forward to attack! Your first swipe decapitates two
Zombies, but the creatures do not die! You lash out
furiously, but the struggle is futile. Their numbers
are overwhelming. Eventually they will wear you
ao and tear you apart. Your journey ends

ere...

322-323

422
You pick up the first box. It is quite heavy and
something soft and bulky bumps about inside. You
fit the end of the box into the hole in the wall and
shove. The box slides down what seems to be a long
chute and finally splashes into the water below. You
pick up the other box and do the same. You may
now leave the room. Turn to 436.

323

You are intrigued by the voice and find yourself
strangely attracted to it. It guides you towards one
of the central arches in the east wall. ‘Come closer,
so | may speak to you in private. No, not that arch,
this one. That's right. Have no fear. I will tell you of
the all-knowing one and tell you where you will find
some juicy Hobbits. Just a little further. It is so long
since [ have enjoyed company and I do so love to
fnd out what happens in the outside world . . .’
You pass through the arch and look around, When
your eyes have adjusted to the light, you can see
that you are standing in a short tunnel which ends
several paces ahead in a dead end. There are no
glowstones, but a glistening sheen covers the ceil-
ing. At the end of the short passage is a shape which
you can just make out. It appears to be a human,
sitting on the floor and leaning against the wall, a
tattered cowl over its head. A leather flagon stands
atits feet. ‘Come closer,’ says the voice. ‘My hearing
S not good. Can I offer you drink?’ Will you
approach the figure (turn to 439), or will you try
another arch (turn to 220)?

324—325

324
As you settle down to sleep in the run-down olc

building, you reflect on the words of the witches.
You must find for them Sculliweed roots, from ¢
plant you have never seen before. However, this
task does seem to arouse your interest and you are
aware that something of yourself is developing.
Your mind goes back to the blind wizard in the room
and how you would never have been able to under-
take a task such as this if you now felt as you dic
then. It is almost as if you are developing wisdon!
This notion occupies your thoughts and you drop
into a disturbed sleep. When you awake the nex:
morning, light is streaming in through coloured
glass in the windows and you heave yourself to
your feet. A fresh meaty meal is lying next to you
and you eat it. You may add 8 sraMINaA points (#
you are able) for the rest and the food and 2 Lucx
points for the encounter.

You may now set off. Will you head north (turn te
301), south (turn to 95), east (turn to 304) or wes:
(turn to 299)?

325
This plant has mysterious properties. You may or
may not get the opportunity to find out what it can
be used for. If asked to present this plant to some-
one later in the adventure, remember the number
twenty-seven. Now you may leave the river-ban
by turning to 18,

326-327

326
As you march on eastwards, you reach a bend
where the passage turns to the north. A creaking
sound from around the corner alerts you and you
stop just before the bend. The sound is a slow,
repeating creak. You peer round the corer to find
out whether you can see anything. But the glow-
stones are not alight and all you can see is blackness,
Will you continue round the corner (turn to 441), or
return to the junction and head west instead (turn

to 353)?

327
As the Demon advances, you stand your ground
and prepare to attack. When it is almost upon you,
vou swing your fist into its chest. Your fist passes
right through! You swing again, and the same thing
happens. You step forward into the creature and
thrash with both hands. Your hands touch nothing,
but your foot comes down on a small, soft object
which seems to try to pull away but quickly goes
still, As this happens, the huge shape of the Rock
Demon fades. You lift your foot to reveal a dead
mouse, upon which the Illusion spell had been cast.

You are still unsure of what has happened, but the
danger has now passed and you may either return
your attentions to the parchment (turn to 192) or
leave the room. If you decide to leave, you may use
either the door in the south wall, through which you
entered {turn to 450), or the door in the east wall
(turn to 365).

328~329

328
The rest of the body is not deeply buried, but when
you have finally uncovered the whole skeleton you
can tell that whoever lived here certainly died a
painful death: the skeleton’s rib-cage has disinte-
grated! You look again at its outstretched hand. The
liquid! Is this a warning? Or could the liquid have
prevented the disaster? You puzzle over these ques-
tions, then leave the ruins. You may, if you wish,
take the bottle of green liquid with you. Turn to 126.

329

At last the pieces of the puzzle fit together. You step
up to the mirror and stare into the glass. You are
looking not at your own image, but deeper. Within
seconds your uncertainty disappears, as the reflec-
tion of your own shape begins to fade and some-
thing gradually takes its place. From the depths of
the misty netherworld which the necromancer now
makes his sanctuary, the awesome form of Zharra-
dan Marr takes shape before you!

As the mist clears, you can make out that Marr is
sitting behind a desk in what seems to bea library of
some kind. Books are scattered across the desk,
along with mystical artefacts and demonic idols,
which also decorate the tall chair he is seated in.
Zharradan Marr himself appears to be either deep
in thought or asleep. A shiver of fear runs down
your spine. A feeling of danger sets your heart
pounding and you cannot help but just stare at the
necromancer. His very form seems to exude a
power which is so strong you can almost feel it.

329

At once his eyes flick open! You jump back as his
fiery pupils, like two burning coals, pierce your soul
with their stare. His lower lip curls down to reveal
sharp, biting teeth and a sinister hissing sound
comes from his mouth. ‘So!’ speaks Marr, with a
voice that resounds in your ears. ‘Like the salmon
fish, my creation returns to its home, drawn by the
forces of nature! Ha! You have done well. And you
have brought my prize.’ You look puzzled. ‘Ah yes,
my fearsome friend,’ he chuckles. ‘It is no accident
that you stand before me on the Galleykeep. Yours
was my finest marrangha and it has been a complete
success. Not only have you proved to be a perfect
creature to replicate as my personal legionnaires, but
your mind is as sharp as your muscles are strong.
You have passed every test, from escaping my
dungeons to finding your way into the Galleykeep.
And you have safely returned to me the Vapour!’
Marr seems to delight in revealing his plan, rather as
a father would to his son...

‘When we first met, you were my captive. Though
you deserved no charity, I was merciful. Rather
than have you slaughtered, I offered you a choice.
Either you were to serve me, or you were to become
a subject for my own marrangha experiments. You
chose never to serve under me and thus your fate
was decided. Asa token of respect I reserved for you
my most ambitious experiment.’ You dwell on his
words. You cannot remember ever having met
Zharradan Marr before. And why should he have
respect for you? Turn to 121.
330-331

330
You follow the path. After a long trek southwards,

the trail sweeps round to the east. It begins to widen
into a weil-used road just as you reach the outskirts
of a dusty village. On your left you pass a run-down
building which could prove a useful place of shelter
for you. But a growing commotion ahead brings
your attention back to the road. A number of vil-
lagers are beginning to bar the road. As you step
forward, one picks up a stone and hurls it at you. It
lands close by your foot. A second villager throws
another stone, and this one bounces off your chest!
Lose 1 STAMINA point for the painful blow. They
cheer and grab more stones to throw at you. It
seems you are not welcome here and you decide to
turn back before you are hit again. Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, none of the villagers manage an
accurate shot. But if you are Unlucky, you must take
another 2 STAMINA points of damage from their
stones. You retrace your steps to the crossroads and
this time you may either turn west (turn to 177) or
carry on north (turn to 130).

331
You step through the door into another rocky
passage. But this one is short, and empty shelves
are fixed to the walls on both sides. At the end of the
passage is a wooden door. You step up to the door
and shove it open. Turn to 15.

332-333

332

You must resolve your battle with the deadly crea-
ture. Although not strong, the Giant Hornet has one
powerful weapon. If you roll a double while rolling
for its Attack Strength, it has managed to sting you
and the effects are fatal. You will die unless you also
manage to roll a double in the same Attack Round. If
you do manage to roll a double with your Attack
Round roll, then you do not die, but must take 6
STAMINA points of damage instead before your
Instant Death blow kills the Hornet. Resolve your
battle:

GIANT HORNET

If you defeat the Hornet, you had better leave the
chamber quickly. Turn to 239.

SKILL 6 STAMINA 7

333
You grasp your crystal club and swing it at your

opponent's head. To your amazement the club
seems to take on a will of its own! As your opponent
ducks, the club follows his movements and comes
down heavily on his skull. The force of the blow
shatters the club, which now lies in fragments on
the floor. But the blow was sufficient to slay your
opponent outright. You have won this battle, but
you have lost your club. Return to the previous
reference and carry on.

334

334
You wander around the room, but there is nothing

particularly remarkable about it. You stop by the
pile of cloth and bend down to pick it up, But, to
your alarm, it springs into the air and disappears!
Astonished at this strange occurrence, you look
round the room for signs of the cloth. The flickering
shadows make your search more difficult and in the
end you shake your head and ignore the incident,
You begin to move off towards the archway, when
you suddenly feel a sharp stabbing pain in your
back!

You spin round, roaring loudly, to face your
attacker. There is no one there! But drops of dark
liquid, rolling off your back and dripping on to the
floor, confirm that you have certainly been injured

You must lose 2 STAMINA points. As you search
round trying to spot your attacker, you get your first
warring of the phantom you are facing. Your
shadow shifts against the wall and, as it does so, it
reveals another shadow, trying to remain concealed
within your own! A spindly arm rises above your
shadow with a sharp knife clutched in its hand. You
leap to one side as the arm descends, The knife
catches your shadow’s arm as you jump away, and
dark blood seeps from between the scales of your
arm. You must lose 2 more STAMINA points. What
do you want to do now? Will you attempt to fight
the deadly Shadow Stalker you are facing? If so,
turn to 34. [f you want to grab for the torches, turn to
379. If you prefer to flee from the area, turn to 242.

335-336

You are determined to leave. ‘If you must leave,’
squeaks the little Pixie, ‘then so be it. But you should
be warned: you will not get far.’ He opens the gate
and lets you out. Without even looking back, you
set off down the trail the way you came. Long after
the castle has disappeared from sight behind you,
an eerie whistling catches your ears. It seems to be
coming from all around you; it is like wind, yet all is
sill. The whistling turns to soft voices, and you stop
to listen. Darkness is closing in, and moments later
it is too dark to see far in front of you. When you do
peer ahead, you are startled to see a group of figures
silhouetted against the dark sky in front of you, as if
they have been formed from the very darkness
itself! Then the spell breaks! All is now back to
normal: the darkness, sounds and figures have
disappeared. Realizing that something mysterious
is going on, you decide to try to make the job of
following you more difficult. Turn to 57.

336

The Galleykeep looms closer and your frustration
grows. If you had been in a calmer frame of mind,
you might have noticed the Whipwood tree, bent
over double and held to the ground by a rope
passing through a stake and ending in a loop. Your
next step takes you straight into the centre of the
hidden loop, and your fate is sealed. The Galleykeep
duly arrives to hoist its cargo of food on board. You
will provide a hearty meal for the crew tonight . . .

337-338

337

‘Swjnfb fbrd apfo yprf. Ypvuh bvf ebffne fpv ndugyj
ltyt pfot hf ecr j mfep fowjlf vlub ndamb ]j cjpvs ub
rsp no bamps to sfrjp vsupff fncfej n it hfed ryerf gj
pnsop fo sblbmpnjs. Bsap vnjsh mf nte ypvu br
fesfnt fncfde tpovnd frt bkfebap fjl pvs umjss jpn
opfo rfcpvfry. Y pyum vstut rbv flen prthwbrds
abndaf ntfreth fev nd frgrpvnd ud pmb j nip fozhb
mb dbnam brra thfr fetpos ffkep vtubn darf cp vfref
lbsks a cpnt bjnjng is wjrlj ngivbp pvrs. Th fsfeb rfeth
feobp pours upfost jttlf ewpbd, Y pyum vstuf jnd i thf
ethrff eflbsk sacp n tbjnjngi thfs fevb p pyrsu bnda
rftv m uthf me tpoth jsic pvrt. PNON POB C
CPVNT UMVST UT HFYEB FEP PFNED. T his
isi t hfe sfn tfncfe pfot hf ecp vrtu bnda thfe gfbs a
hb sa bf fnech st. Th jsij si ypvru pvn jshmf nt. Yp
vumws tusve cf fde jni ypvr umjs sjp noprod jfe jn i
thfeb t tfmpt.’

Underneath this writing is more, but written in a
different style: “Vb ppvr upfoknpwlf dgf / — Flb
xfinmb nfe p fosj Ivfirtpn = /- Wjngfdeh flmft.

338
Your foot slips on the step. You lose your balance

and tumble down, down towards the Bilgewater
below. But you never feel the impact of hitting the
water. Just before you reach the river, you collide at
full speed with a boulder protruding from the face of
the cliff. Your death is instantaneous.

339-341

339
You stagger round the walls of the room, desperate-

ly searching for a way out of the growing furnace.
But it is hopeless. The air 1s now so hot that you
cannot breathe without scorching your lungs.
Consciousness fades before you are finally roasted
in the tremendous heat of the furnace trap.

340

You enter the largest of the caves. It is quite deep
and is pitch-black, so you can see very little of what
is inside. Straw covers the floor and there is an
unpleasant smell in the air. Suddenly your ears
prick up! A snuffling noise is coming from deeper in
the cave, followed by the dull clang of metal on rock.
Your nostrils pick up the smell of animal sweat. Do
you want to continue into the cave or will you
instead leave whatever is in there in peace? If you
want to go further in, turn to 451. If you want to
leave, turn to 386.

341
As you search through the woods on your seeming-
ly hopeless task, the ship in the sky is becoming
larger. It is coming your way! You begin to thrash
about in frustration, but just then you see what you
are looking for. Ahead of you —- appearing much too
obvious now you have spotted it — is a tall, slender
tree, bent back on itself — a Galleykeep hunting trap!
You pick yourself up and stare at the device. The
tree, a Whipwood, has been shaved of its branches.
Its tip is held taut by a rope which ends in a ring.

341

You study it until you are sure that you can under-
stand how it works.

You wait, watching the slow arrival of the
Galleykeep. At a suitable time, you spring the trap.
The tree snaps upwards and you are hoisted
through the air until you hang loosely at tree-top
level. You are helpless! Your only hope is that the
Galleykeep crew see you and pull you on beard, The
ship gets nearer. As the dark shape looms above
you, a long pole reaches out over the side and pulls
you up through the air. Your plan is working!

Sharp claws scratch at your scales as the hands of
dark, foul-smelling creatures pull you up and over
the side of the boat and drop you in a heap on the
deck. Playing dead, you gather your strength and
wait for a suitable moment to spring into action.
Two pairs of rough hands grasp your shoulders and
hoist you along the deck towards a guillotine,
whose blade is poised and ready to drop. At that
moment you make your move! You pull yourself to
your feet and fling your two guards over the side of
the ship. Two burly Goblins step forward with
shortswords. You must resolve this battle, The
creatures attack together:

SKILL STAMINA
First GOBLIN 6 5
Second GOBLIN 5 5

lf you defeat the Goblins, turn to 312.
342-343

342

The footsteps and clanking get louder and louder.
You can feel your anger rising and your lips curl
back to bare your teeth. Suddenly the footsteps stop
and you hear hissing noises. They have heard you
approach! The passageway is rough and twisting
and you are straining to see any signs of them
ahead, You step nearer and nearer; and they are
doing likewise. Finally, you reach a length of
straight passageway, Ahead you can see the dull
light of a glowstone and picked out in the light are
two human faces. Evidently they can see you too, as
their reaction is similar: you stare at each other fora
few moments. They hold their ground. Do you
want to attack (turn to 258), or will you wait to see
what they do (turn to 432)?

343
You bend down and make your way along the

tunnel through the overhanging foliage. You can-
not help but wonder about how such a tunnel ever
came into existence. Itis unlikely that it would occur
naturally, But then that only leaves . . .

Your questions are answered when you feel your
progress being hindered. You are tugging agains?
sticky vines which have wrapped themselves
around your legs and back. The more you bug, the
more lengths of vine you pull on top of you. You
begin to panic! What can you do? If you wish to
make a desperate attempt to break out of the tunnel,
turn to 4. If you wish to relax and wait to see what

344-345

happens next, turn to 278. If you are carrying a
bottle of green liquid and wish to try drinking it,
turn to 214.

344
The passage continues westwards but begins to

narrow after a few paces. It bends first to the left,
then to the right, At one point you disturba group of
rats feasting on some partially decomposed re-
mains, but they scurry off into the blackness as you
pass by. Suddenly, sounds in the distance alert you
and you stop, Ahead there is a sharp bend to the
south, and flickering light and dancing shadows
warn you of danger. For a few moments you hesi-
tate. But your emotions take over. A raging storm
seems to be gathering within. Your eyes narrow;
your lips curl back to reveal your sharp teeth; you
flex your powerful muscles and step forward.
Fearlessty you step round the corner to face what-
ever awaits you. Turn to 205.

345
You stumble down the rocky bank and splash into
the river. The dirty water feels greasy to the touch
and the stench is horrendous. You force your way
forward against the fast-flowing current, deeper
and deeper into the darkness of the cave. Your
presence is noted by a host of fish and other animals
living in the Bilgewater. Most are not capable of
harming you. But there is one river creature who
thrives in vile waters. Knownas the Devil’s Locks, it

346

is a huge burrowing creature with long stinging
tentacles. In rivers it will bury its body in crevices,
allowing its deadly tentacles to waft in the current.
The effect is rather like seeing a long-haired dis-
embodied head lying on the bed of the river (hence
the name). You, of course can see nothing. Nor do
you know anything of the terrible creature. The last
things you remember are soft fibres wrapping them-
selves around your leg and a sharp pain as the first
sting releases its quick-acting poison...

346
The door opens and you step into a dingy room.
Dust and cobwebs have begun to settle over the
furniture and the curtains over the portholes are
drawn. The room itself has an unmade bed against
one wall. A wardrobe door yawns half open, rock-
ing as the Galleykeep sways and revealing elegant
uniforms, now beginning to look a little dusty. You
get a sudden fright when you see a creature staring
at you, but relax when you realize it is only your
reflection in a full-length mirror which hangs to the
side of the wardrobe. Further round the room, there
is a desk, covered in charts and maps, one of which
protrudes from a folder marked ‘For Captain’s Eyes
Only’. A spiral staircase to one side of the desk
ascends to another hatchway which is closed. As
you are making your way round the room, you get
another fright when you bump into a long, thin,
brass-trimmed device which stands on three legs
and points out of the window. There is no one in the
Toom; nor does it look as though it has been used

347-348

recently. But you might as well investigate the
contents. Which will you start with:

The wardrobe? Turn to 59
The mirror? Turn to 422
The desk? Turn to 246
The spiral staircase? Turn to 370
The brass-trimmed device? Turn to 225

347
You try the door but you cannot get a grip without a

handle. Your claws dig into the wood and you pull
hard, but to no avail. The door is closed tightly and
is being held by some catch. You cannot open it.
Will you instead examine the figure on the chair
(turn to 452), or search through the bones in the
corner of the room (tum to 64)?

348
As you wander through the multitude of creatures,
you start to consider this place. So far your life has
been aimless. You have been wandering alone
through the land. Here is a place where you will be
fed, where you will mix with others, and where you
will never be short of a good fight. On the other
hand, a voice in the back of your mind is still asking
the same questions. Who are you? What are you
doing here? Where have you come from? The
answers to these questions will probably not be
found here. Thugruff comes over to you and asks
you whether you would like to stay to train as one of
Marr’s legionnaires and serve on his Galleykeep.
349-350

What will you do? Do you wantto leave (turn to 455),
or will you seriously consider training as a legion-
naire (turn to 43)?

349
The guard lies dead on the ground and you step

back to catch your breath. You may feast on the
guard’s body, but if you do, you will gain only 3
STAMINA points, for his taste is not to your liking.
The way onwards seems to be through the metal
door in the wall opposite your entrance. You step
up and try it: it is locked. You strain to see through
the small barred viewing-hole set in the door. You
can see a stone stairway leading upwards, and a soft
cool wind caresses your cheek. Will you look for the
key to the lock (turn to 112) or try to break down the
door (turn to 128)?

350
The blue liquid smells sweet and you sip down the
contents of the flask. There is no noticeable effect.
But the effects of the Potion of Fear you have just
drunk will not be revealed until you enter your next
battle. When you do so, you will feel strangely
afraid of your opponent and you will never again be
able to use the Instant Death rule, unless you find
someone who has the power to remove curses.
Continue by turning to 293.

a eel

351-353

351

The path continues through the undergrowth, but
the going becomes more difficult. You soon find it
difficult to tell which way the path leads, as the
whole area is so overgrown. You peer through the
woods ahead and there seems to be little of interest,
although an area to your left seems to be unnat-
urally dark. This could just be a cluster of broad-
leaved trees blocking out the light, or it could be
something else. Do you want to try beating your
way through the vegetation towards it (turn to 382),
or will you turn round, follow the path back to the
fork and take the other direction (turn to 183)?

352
‘Enough!’ shouts Thugruff. ‘I have seen enough.’ If
you reduced Eleven’s stAMINA to 2, turn to 118. If
he reduced your STAMINA to 2, turn to 431.

353
You continue west and you notice that the air is

becoming distinctly cooler, The walls of the passage
become damp and glisten in the glowstones’ light.
A breeze is blowing against you, as if to persuade
you against this course. Your ears pick up the sound
of running water and each step brings this sound
closer. Eventually you find yourself standing on a
narrow rocky bridge which spans a bubbling stream
some distance below. You stop to look down at the
flowing water. It is not easy to see in the dim light,
but your nose twitches at the unpleasant smell
which issues from the stream. If you feasted on the
iN EEEIEP 8 ONIN

354-356

Hellhound, you must lose 2 sTAMINA points for the
nausea you now feel. You hurry on over the bridge
and soon afterwards come across a passageway
leading north. If you take this passage, turn to 172.
If you prefer to continue west, turn to 149.

354
You stumble off awkwardly up the passage. The

ground is rough underfoot and the passage is get-
ting a little narrower, though the ceiling appears to
be much higher up. Eventually you reach a dead
end. There seems to be no way forward. Will you
grope around the walls to see whether you can find
a way of progressing (turn to 179), or will you re-
turn to the crossroads and turn either to the east
(turn to 310) or to the south (turn to 212)?

355
The creature is not the ageing carthorse you expect.

Instead it is a powerful stallion and it will put up
quite a fight:

STALLION SKILL 7 STAMINA 9

If you defeat the horse, you may eat its nourishing
meat. Add 5 STAMINA points and turn to 386 to
leave.

356
You follow the corridor round the bend to the east,

then round another to the north. The smell is get-
ting stronger but there are now other aromas in the
356

air. The passage turns west next, and a short dis-
tance further on you stop at a comer where it turns
to the south. The smells in the air are now quite
strong and there are sounds coming from round the
corner. You cautiously poke your head round to see
what is going on.

The passage ends a short distance ahead. Bones are
strewn about the place. Some have remnants of
flesh left on them, but not for long. Standing in the
centre of the passageway, feasting noisily on the
remains, are three Carrion Bugs! They are huge,
black beetles with formidable heads in the shape of
death’s-head skulls. The creatures’ heads are armed
with razor-sharp mandibles which can strip muscle
cleanly from a bone in an instant. You are consider-
ing whether or not to turn round and retrace your
steps, when your eyes fall on an unmistakable
shape — the decaying corpse of a Hobbit! Your eyes
widen and your dry mouth becomes moist,
Thoughts of retracing your steps fade . . .

You surge through the Carrion Bugs to your meal.
They ignore you until you grab the Hobbit. But then
they turn towards you: they will not allow you to
steal their meal! You must fight the Carrion Bugs all
together:

SKILL STAMINA
First CARRION BUG a 6
Second CARRION BUG 8 5
Third CARRION BUG 7 5

357-358

If you wish to escape during the battle, you may do
so by turning to 240, but only after at least three
Attack Rounds. If you defeat all three of them, turn

to 375.

357
You kick the door back and slash out at the Rhino-

Man. You must resolve this battle:

RHINO-MAN SKILL 8 STAMINA 9

If you defeat the creature, you may search the
guardroom. As the Rhino-Man was about the same
size as you, you may wish to take something from
the room. If you take a dusty brown sack, turn to
250. If you take a metal breastplate, turn to 415.

358

A passage leads from the opening into the rock-face,
and you follow it. But you find that, as you travel
north, the light fades rapidly. There are no glow-
stones in this passage and you must progress care-
fully, steadying yourself by running your hands
along both walls. The ground underfoot is rocky
and several times you stub your toes painfully on
protruding stones. Later, you can no longer touch
both walls at once. Although you are unable to see
anything, you sense that you are entering a large
chamber. Turn to 257.

359-361

359
Battered and crushed, the physician drops to the

floor. You catch your breath for afew moments. Will
you now head for the door and leave the room (turn
to 178), or will you continue looking round the room
(turn to 407)?

360
You have no wish to give the ring back to the blind
wizard. It may prove very useful to you in the
future. And, apart from that, you think it looks
splendid on your finger. The old wizard wants you
to lead him away, but your attitude is mixed. He
may slow you down and you have learned all his
useful information. You stand up, brush him aside,
and leave. If you come across Darramouss, you may
use the ring as follows. When you are given the
option to grab him and do battle, add 50 to the
reference you are on at the time and turn to this new
reference. Now turn to 138.

361

You pick up your club and step towards the mirror.
When Zharradan Marr sees your weapon, his con-
fident manner becomes a little nervous. ‘So, my
offspring of marrangha,’ he says, though perhaps a
little too eagerly. “You choose to turn against your
creator. Do not be hasty. Let me first tell you of my
plans for us. Whatever future you wish, it can be
achieved.’ Turn to 460.

362

362

After a few moments you find it difficult to keep
your eyes open and your head begins to nod. Resist-
ance is useless. You roll over on the ground and fall
soundly asleep. But your sleep is disturbed by
dreams of dark creatures, humans with sharp
swords and magical encounters. In the centre of
your dreams is yourself, understanding nothing,
for ever wondering where you are, and why. In one
dream you are running from a hideous figure, who
is pursuing you in a ship which flies. The faster you
try to escape, the easier it is for the ship to catch up.
Leering sadistically, the figure drops a net over you!
You crash to the ground, trapped in the net, trying
desperately toescape...

You wake up with a start, arms flailing madly. A
breeze has blown the branch of an oak into you, so
that its leaves cover your face and chest. You
breathe a sigh of relief and pick yourself up. Your
eyes narrow to slits as they adjust to a new expen-
ence for you. Daylight! You may add 4 STAMINA
points for the rest and then you set off once more
through the wood. Turn to 244.

363-364

363
The dead Hellhound would no doubt have made a
tasty meal had you arrived several days ago. But
now its rotten flesh gives you severe stomach
cramps. You double over and your claws scrape on
the rocky walls as you try to support yourself. You
must lose 4 STAMINA points and wait for a while
before you continue. When you are ready, turn to

75-

364

You greet the Dwarf. At least you try to greet the
little creature. But instead of any message coming
from your throat, it is silent and your hands reach
down to grasp the terrified figure around the chest.
He screams and makes a strange sound, which
sounds like: ‘Kff pebw by afrp momf.’ You try to
answer, but the only sound you are able to make is a
grunt of effort as your rough, scaly fingers close
tightly around the creature’s chest and your sharp
claws dig in. Summoning up all its strength, it
Swipes at you with its sharp sword. The blade digs
in under the scales above your knee, but the wound
is not too serious — deduct 2 STAMINa points. The
blow causes you to roar loudly and to increase the
pressure on the creature’s chest. Its ribs crack like
twigs under the force of your grip and the body fails
limp. You drop it to the floor where it lands like the
sack of bones it now is.

Your thoughts are confused. Will you attempt to
hide the body (turn to 218), will you examine this

365

strange little creature (turn to 399), or will you leave
the area immediately (turn to 248)?

365

The door opens into a straight passage leading east,
which you follow until you reach a dead end. You
grow! in frustration and, as if your voice had acted
as some kind of trigger, you hear a click and a sliding
sound. Part of the rock-face slides aside and reveals
another passage running north and south! You step
through the secret doorway cautiously, wary of a
trap. When you are through, the door grinds shut
again. But at the same time there is another sound,
which seems to be coming from above you. Just in
time you look up to see a heavy portcullis dropping
from the roof towards you! You fling yourself for-
ward not an instant too soon. A heavy clang sounds
behind you as the portcullis hits the ground. You
escaped death by inches!

Since you hurled yourself north, the way to the
south is now sealed off by the portcullis, and you
pick yourself up and set off north. Soon you reach a
crossroads where you may turn east (turn to 50) or
west (turn to 213}, or continue northwards (turn to

443).

366-368

366

You step back into the bushes and search the clear-
ing suspiciously. Allis quiet, until a shrill cry breaks
the silence. This is followed by the sounds of a
struggle and finally three figures tumble into the
clearing from the undergrowth, locked in combat.
Two rough-set Brigands are grappling with another
creature. The Brigands are burly humans, with
leather breastplates and boots. The belts around
their waists hold throwing-knives, but they are
using their bare fists in this battle. Their adversary is
thin and nimble, with long white hair and angular
features. He wears a silky robe and appears to be
unarmed. He is putting up a brave fight, but is
clearly losing the battle as blow after blow from the
brigands thuds into his stomach, ribs and head. He
is crying out for help. Will you help him? If so, turn
to 429. If you would rather keep hidden until the
Brigands have left, turn to 295.

367
Only the Half-Orc’s attacker is disappointed to see
the miserable creature drop down dead. The
villagers applaud and usher you into the hut to
drink a toast to your victory. If you refuse their
hospitality, turn to 107 to leave Coven. If you accept
their invitation, turn to 395.

368
There are all kinds of birds and some rabbits to be
found in the wood. To catch some food, you must
Test your Luck successfully. If you are Lucky, you

369

will catch a small animal for 2 STAMINA points of
nourishment. If you are Unlucky, you will not. You
may try as many times as you like, but you may not
gain more than 4 STAMINA points in total. Turn to
229 when you want to continue.

369

You step into the passage and your eyes adjust to
the green light. You breathe cautiously as you pro-
press, but it seems that the smoke is not harmful,
though it smells a little pungent. The passage leads
after only a few paces to impenetrable blackness;
not even the green light is penetrating the dark
Your eyes strain to see anything of the surround-
ings, but without success.

Suddenly a light flickers to your left! A smail flame
lights up something: it is a human face! The face is
motionless and its eyes are closed. The skin is old
and withered and you cannot tell whether it is alive
or dead. Another light flickers! Another sombre face
lights up before you. And another! Eventually there
are four faces, all dimly lit, around the chamber. An
instant later, their eyes and mouths flick open wide
and the silence is broken by a sharp voice which cuts
through the darkness. The effect is terrifying!
‘Ypvruprpg¢ rfss ehbs ab ffne wbtchf def pvlucrfbtv r
fep fodf str vet] pn. Spo foray pv uhbvfe dpn fe wflk
ethp vgh uypv uk np won pt ow hyo prow hbt.
Bvtay pvo hbvfi cbv sfdatw pipf ath favbp pvrse
tpebf ulpst. Zhbr rbd bnam brrah jms fl f ehbsa dfec
rffdey pvr udfst jny. Yp vushbl lar fmb jn ijni hjsi

370

dvng fpnso b nd adp omy objd djng. Fp roji bma db
rrbm pvs suypv rumbs tfr.’ Jfiy pvuc bna vn dfs tbn
dahj mi tv mut p orff frfn cf enj nfty. “Y pvru fjrs ti
prd frejsi th js. Rf pprtofp rodvt yubta thfe yifl
Ipwstp nfemj nfs. Lfb vfenpw ob ndahfbdath frfejm
mfdjb tfly. Jiwjllibf ewbt chj ng.’

As the voice ceases, a rumbling sound comes from
ahead of you. The same green light indicates an-
other secret passageway, which the voice evidently
wishes you to take. Will you leave through the
new passage (turn to 79), or will you step up
to one of the illuminated faces and crush it in
your hand (turn to 247)?

370

You climb up the staircase and try the hatch at the
top. Itis open and you climb through. Butinstead of
entering another room, you find yourself on a sec-
luded part of the ship — evidently the captain’s
private deck. You look around for another hiding-
place, but there is none to be found, and soon you
are faced with an angry hoard of Orcs and Hobgob-
lins who have silently followed you onto the deck.
You will get to meet Zharradan Marr all right, but as
his prisoner. And when he has finished tormenting
you for his pleasure, you will remain aboard the
Galleykeep as his slave for the rest of your days,

371-372

371
The passage runs straight ahead until you reach a

junction, where you may continue north (turn to
144) or turn east (turn to 204). Alternatively, you
may return to the previous junction and turn west
(turn to 280).

372
The passage heads east. The rough stone floor
begins to feel different underfoot and you look
down to see that it has been laid with flat stones of
irregular sizes. The light seems to be better,
although with a definite bluish tint, and you look up
to see blue glowstones in the ceiling, lighting your
way. Mysteriously, their glow appears only as you
approach; when you look behind you see the light
has faded, There are anumber of crevices, and small
passages lead off from the main one, but you ignore
these as they are far too narrow for you to enter.
A sound from ahead catches your attention — the
soft thump of something landing on the ground.
Further on, you discover that it was a tied-up sack.
Something inside the sack is struggling, but cannot
get out. In size, the lump is similar to the Dwarf you
killed earlier. Will you investigate the sack or con-
tinue along the passageway? Roll one die. If you roll
1—4, you will stop to study the sack more carefully
(turn to 186). If you roll 5 or 6, you will ignore it (turn

to 440).

373-375

373
The rocky corridor continues for some time and

then turns sharply southwards. Ahead of you, at
the end of the passage, is a sturdy wooden door; to
your left is another door. Will you try the door
straight ahead (turn to 15) or the door to your left
(turn to 241)? ,

374
On the way out of the village, you pass more huts

and more of the villagers, who rush across the road
to avoid you. Ahead of you is a figure slumped face
down on the ground. When you get closer you can
see that it is a dark-skinned Half-Orc, and that it is
dead. Do you want to investigate the body (turn to
91), or will you ignore it and continue (turn to 107)?

375
With the Carrion Bugs dead, your thoughts revert to

the tasty Hobbit. You pick up the rigid body and
sink your teeth into its stomach area. Although
irresistible, the taste is not too pleasant, as the body
has been dead for some time. Nevertheless, you eat
heartily and you may gain 4 STAMINA points for the
meal. Then you follow the passage north, and later
east. As you turn the next corner, your heart sinks.
Another of the creatures is arriving for its meal! To
get past you will have to defeat the Bug:

CARRION BUG SKILL 7 STAMINA 6

If you defeat it, turn to 227.

376-379

376
You thrash about in the woods, becoming in-
creasingly frustrated by the hopelessness of your
task. Test your Luck again. lf you are Lucky, turn to
341. If you are Unlucky, turn to 336.

377
One of the Rhino-Men is boasting that he could

easily defeat Thugruff in battle. The Orcs are taunt-
ing him and the tension is mounting as the other
Rhino-Men defend him. A fight may break out at
any moment. If you want to stay to see what
happens, turn to 124. Otherwise turn to 348.

378
You step forward to make your way past the
Hobbits. But even as you take the first step, you
know that you cannot carry out your intention.
Though you may wish to ignore the Hobbits, you
cannot pass by your favounte food. Turn to 42.

379
You reach up for the torch on the wall beside you,

but it is just out of your reach. Meanwhile, the
Shadow Stalker is once more poised for attack and
only by shifting sideways quickly do you avoid a
fatal blow. Instead, the plunging knife grazes your
shadow’s leg. Lose 1 STAMINA point. Will you now
try to fight the creature (turn to 34), offer a gesture of
peace (turn to 135), or flee as quickly as possible
(turn to 242)?

380

380

The riverside is a place of great natural beauty. At
least, it seems to be natural, but there is always the
possibility that someone has planted the colourful
plants in their beds along the banks of the river. A
tall green-stemmed reed is topped with coiled trum-
pets of purple flowers which hang down facing the
river. These flowers are so beautiful that they havea
hypnotic effect on the fish of the river, which are
attracted to the water beneath the reeds and can be
seen swimming beneath them. Another blue-
stemmed plant has no flowers but its glistening
colour is quite remarkable and it has a strong herbal
odour, Yet another plant has leaves which are per-
fect circles, red in colour. As you watch, one of the
leaves drops into the river. The leaf seems to have
some purifying effect: as soon as it touches the
water, all cloudiness is gone from the area around
the leaf; the water becomes crystal-clear until dis-
turbed by the flow of the current. Another plant, out
of reach in the water, has delicate flowers of silver.
As the wind blows, the flowers whistle and tinkle
together with an eerie, calming sound which makes
you feel quite relaxed. You may, if you wish, gather
a few of one of these types of plant before you leave.
Which will you choose: the one with purple flowers
(turn to 325), the one with a blue stem (turn to 106)
or the one with the red leaves (turn to 181)?

381—382

381

You pick your way through the woods towards the
shaded area. The thick vegetation makes it imposs-
ible for you to travel in a straight line and you find
yourself turning this way and that to pick out the
easiest route, Eventually you reach the shadowy
patch and discover to your disappointment that it is
a tight thicket of tall Heavenstip trees, their leaves
desperately thirsting for the sunlight from above.
You turn back towards the path. But where is it?
You have no way of knowing which way you have
come from and your eyes scan the wood for familiar
signs. There are none. Acting on a hunch, you
finally set off towards the spot where — you hope —
you left the path. Turn to 57.

382

The gas drifts from the flask, but rather than spread-
ing out, it pulls itself together into a purple cloud
and billows up before you. You watch open-
mouthed as a shape begins to form in the cloud, and
eventually turns into a face, which stares deep into
your eyes. The face is human-like, but thin and with
jagged features, The pupils of its eyes are not round,
but are instead serpent-like. Its thin-lipped mouth
opens and speaks: ‘Jib mar flfbsf defr pmo myorf st.
Fpv lucrfb tvrf ewhbtadpo ypv uk npwop fothfe
fprefsew jthi w hjchiy pvutb mpfr. Bvt unpnf thfl
fssemye pvr ppsfe jsipr db jnfd. Jibfstpwop n oypv
uthfe ppw frepfo rfbs pn. Frp monp wo pnoyp vubr
fej nicp ntr plop foypvr upwnodfs tjny. Bnd anpw-
emby ajir ft vrn utp omyo pfbcf fv lurfste vntj lip
ncfem prfethfeh fbv Mnsetb kfeth § ri ppsj tjpns.’

383

Your anger mounts and you swipe at the cloud. But
your hand passes right through the gas without
even disturbing it. The mysterious face blinks slow-
ly and the colour of the cloud flashes momentarily
from purple to white, and back to purple again.
Then the face disappears and the cloud is sucked
down back into its flask. Once safely inside the
flask, the stopper replaces itself in the neck and the
bottle settles into its cradle in the wooden casket. An
instant later, the casket and its contents have faded
to nothing!

You decide you have had enough of this room, but
you may add 2 LUCK points for your find. Will you
leave through the door to the west (turn to 51), or
the door to the east (turn to 33)?

383
You turn towards the comer where you last heard
the clicking noise and let out a deep growl. As you
step into the corner, the clicking starts again! This
time it becomes quite frantic. To your complete
astonishment, the sound darts across the room in
front of you and heads for an opposite corner! As
you were virtually in the corner, and there was no
room for anything of any size to pass you, you
realize that whatever is making the noise must be
very small. Your head turns to the other corner. The
pitch of the noise has increased and there seem to be
two — if not three — distinct creatures clicking away.
Your curiosity has been aroused and you step
towards the corner. Only then do you appreciate

384

the danger you have been facing. The flashes of
light coming from behind the door before you
entered were emanating from a small group of
Blinding Beetles. These large insects have the power
to emit extremely bright flashes of light, which are
powerful enough to blind all but magically pro-
tected creatures. Your harassment has finally
angered them to their flash-point. Three intense
bursts of light explode before your eyes, followed by
complete blackness. The Blinding Beetles’ attack
has been effective: you have now lost your sight.
You rub your eyes with your scaly hands to try to
wipe away the blackness, but there is nothing you
can do. In desperation, you bellow pitifully and
stumble around the room as if there were some way
out of the sightless world which is now yours. As
you grope along the wall, you come across a door.
You give it a yank, feel it open and a rush of air hits
you. Roll one die. If you roll 1, 2 or 3, turn to 8o. If
you roll 4, 5 or 6, turn to 317.

384
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, you manage to
reach the doorway before Darramouss can react
(turn to 79). If you are Unlucky, Darramouss man-
ages to close the door before you can reach it and
you must wait to see what fate he has in store for

you (turn to 286).

385-387

385
You consider the little creature’s words. What you
remember of your life has been somewhat aimless.
You may just as well spend some time here. He
leads you back to the courtyard and explains to
Thugruff your reluctance to stay. You are not keen
on the villanous Half-Troll. But you must now de-
cide your future, since youare staying. Do you want
to work hard and try to earn yourself a position on
the Galleykeep (turn to 43), or would you rather bide
your time until you can seize a suitable moment to
assassinate the foul-breathed Thugruff (turn to 82)?

386
You head off back towards the crossroads and turn
this time to the north. Turn to 130.

387

He looks deep into your eyes for several moments.
Eventually he grunts and stands aside to let you
through into the guardroom. The place is dirty, and
smells of rancid ale and stale food. Across the room
is another door. This one is made of metal and has a
small barred viewing-panel at eye-level. Through
this panel you can see steps leading upwards. But
while you gaze at the door, you are not watching
what the guard is doing. Suddenly you feel a heavy
blow on the back of your head. You slump to your
knees, dazed by the impact, and turn to see the
guard advancing towards you holding a heavy club.
Lose 4 STAMINA points for the blow and turn to 98
to battle with the guard.

388-389

388

The going becomes a little steeper and the river
splashes faster over its rocky bed. Ahead you can
see that it seems to disappear over a ledge and,
when you get closer, you see that the river plunges
over a tall waterfall and crashes into a natural pond
far below, before continuing along a narrower
Stream through a gully carved in the rock. The
effect is quite spectacular, but it presents a problem
to you. How do you get down? Following the path
along the river-bank is impossible. You will have to
continue through the undergrowth. Turn to 57.

389

Your foe is defeated and you feel justifiably proud.
Your gaze passes from the dead creature to its lair.
But there is nothing of interest, and the sicken-
ing stench of Clawbeast makes you want to leave
quickly. There are three ways onwards: the passage
behind you, a cave entrance in the western wall and
another in the northern wall. What will your next
action be? Roll one die. If the roll is 1-4, turn to 230.
If the roll is 5 or 6, turn to 165.

390-391

390
You head off eastwards. After a few steps, the
passage begins to widen and you can hear distant
sounds ahead. As you get closer, you recognize
them — and your mouth waters! For the sound
you can hear is the unmistakable chatter of tasty
Hobbits! Without any consideration of the con-

‘D> sequences, you make your way quickly towards the
eh: - jsf a : : .

= 4 oof ie gia ay, oh ie noises. The glowstones light your way to a wide

chamber. The passage enters it around a bend and

aay Quypres apy you stop to survey the scene. Marble flooring marks

the entrance to this meeting-chamber which is
decorated with carvings and dark archways. Three
Hobbits, wearing none of that obstructive metal
armour, are engaged in a heated discussion in the
centre of the chamber. They have their backs to-
wards you, but they are concerned about their
safety and one of them keeps on looking around the
chamber for any signs of danger. Will you wait until
this one is occupied before rushing in to attack (turn
to 288), or will you ignore the advantage of surprise
and simply rush in (turn to 42). Alternatively you
may wish to ignore the Hobbits and head across the
chamber to a passage opposite which continues to
the east. If you wish to do this, turn to 378.

391
The water is cool and refreshing. However, its silver
sheen comes from mineral deposits which make it
unsuitable for drinking. Lose 2 STAMINA points for
the strange ‘heady’ feeling which comes over you.
When you are ready, turn to 52 to continue.

392-393

392
Your final blow sends the Knight flying across the

chamber to land in a crumpled heap against one
wall. You grunt in satisfaction. Your attention is
drawn immediately back to the dead Hobbit lying
by the fire and your mouth waters at the thought of
its sweet flesh. But you have forgotten the final
adventurer. The Wizard has now completed his
spell. With a final incantation, he delivers his magic,
directed straight at you through his two little
fingers. You feel no more than a tingling sensation
as his spell takes effect. ‘Yp v ubr fen pwovnd fre
myec pntrpl of pvluc rfb tvrf.’ A smile spreads
across the sorcerer’s lips: ‘Bl lamy aw jshfs ebrf e
ypvr ucpm mbnds. Gbt hfrem ye cpm rbd fseb n daf
pll pwomf!’ You intend to step forward and slash
him with your claws, but your muscles will not
respond. Instead, you step over to the dead Knight,
pick him up and carry him over your shoulder. You
do the same with the Hobbit. The Wizard then turns
and makes his way down the passage. You follow,
carrying the rest of his party. And this will be your
fate: to spend the rest of your life as a slave to your
master, whose Control Creature spell has worked
perfectly.

3
You step up to the door in the west wall and tug at
the handle. The door will not budge. You grunt in
anger, take a step back and prepare to smash the
door. But the door is stronger than you thought.
You nurse your sore shoulder for a few moments

394-395

(lose 1 STAMINA point), and then return to the
centre of the room. Will you try one of the other
doors (turn to 405) or, if you have not already done
so, investigate the room (turn to 104)?

394
Although there are three doors leading from the

guardroom, you ignore the one to the south. Will
you leave via the door in the north wall (turn to 314)
or the door in the west wall (turn to 116)?

395
Inside the hut is a counter and from behind the

counter someone passes you a bowl full of liquid.
The bemused villagers watch as you cup the bowl,
sniff the liquid, and finally pour it down your
throat. The taste is rough and your stomach seems
to be undecided whether or not to heave the ale back
up again. Butinstead it decides ona hiccup followed
by a great throaty belch which delights the villagers.
They laugh at your bewildered expression and the
bowl is once more filled up for you to drink again.

Several bowls later you are feeling decidedly light-
headed. The villagers eventually leave the hut and
you stagger back out on to the street to continue
your journey. You may add 3 sTAMINA points for
the ale, but you must reduce your skILt by 1 until
the effects of the ale have worn off. This will be
indicated by + in the text. Now turn to 107.

396-398

396

The door cracks as you charge it and eventually you
break into the room, but not before you take 1
STAMINA point of damage for a sore shoulder, The
room inside has no occupants. Instead a single desk
is surrounded on three sides by racks of parch-
ments, each rolled up neatly and tied with string. A
door in the east wall is half hidden behind the
untidy racks. Do you want to head out through this
door (turn to 365), or will you pick up a parchment
and see what it says (turn to 100)?

397
As the defeated Warrior slumps dead to the ground,

another steps through the archway to take up the
battle. You must fight this one too:

CHAOS WARRIOR SKILL 7 STAMINA 8

If you defeat your attacker, turn to 46.

398

You pick up a chair and fling it at the door. The chair
shatters. By now your anger and frustration are
twice what they were before! You try kicking the
door with your huge foot. The door seems to
shudder a little more than it did before, and a few
grains of dust fall to the floor from where the hinges
are attached to the rock. But still the door remains
intact. You must lose 1 STAMINA point for the
injury to your foot. If you want to keep trying the
door, turn to 128. If you would rather give up on the
door and look for the key, turn to 112.

399

399
Your hands relax and the sharp claws retract into

your fingers. You clumsily fumble through the
Dwarf’s dirty vestments. Your fingers will not fit
into the pockets, but you do succeed in snapping
the thongs of a large leather pouch which the crea-
ture has around its waist. As the ties break, the
pouch spills its contents on the ground in front of
you. It contained several circular pieces of shiny
metal and a piece of hide, which unfolds as it drops
out of the pouch. It is light in colour and has
markings all over one side. You pick it up awkward-
ly and look at it, but it makes no sense at all. You
become quite fascinated by this piece of leather. You
turn it round, rub it with your hands and throw it in
the air. You place it on your arm and on your head.
You decide to take the leather with you. Unknown
to you, the message on the hide may be useful later
in your adventure. Turn to 337 to examine the
message. If you are carrying this piece of hide, you
may return to 337 at any time to re-examine it, but
you will need to remember the reference you have
come from in order to return and continue.

As you may have realized by now, your own wishes
have little effect on your reactions as a creature, You
have only glimpses of what you are like and what
you are capable of. Although this will change as the
adventure progresses, at this stage you are at the
mercy of your own whims and instincts. You are
standing at a junction where you may go either east
or west. Roll one die, If you roll 1, 2 or 3, turn to 308.
If you roll 4, 5 or 6, turn to 148.

' 400-402

400

You step into whatis left of the building. Among the
debris you find a skeletal hand reaching into the air,
the rest of its body buried beneath the ruined walls.
In this hand is a stoppered bottle, and within the
bottle is a small amount of green liquid. Around the
rest of the building there are the remains of various
items of furniture: a smashed table, a splintered
chair and a wrecked bed, its straw mattress ripped
to shreds. But your attention returns to the hand
clutching the bottle of liquid. If you wish to leave
and take this bottle with you, turn to 126. If you
would rather dig the body out of the rubble, turn
to 328.

401

After a few paces, the passage begins to wind
irregularly in a generally south-westerly direction.
You follow it for some time, and then it turns south.
You arrive at the top of a flight of stairs, but decide
against going back down to the lower levels. There
is another passage leading east here, and you decide
to take this route. Turn to 156.

402
Your hand closes round his neck. As you tighten it,
you can hear the grinding sound of bones being
crushed. But Darramouss’s expression is unchang-
ing; he shows not the slightest concern. You release
the neck and drop the limp body to the ground. But
the instant you release him, his body snaps back to
life and the incantation continues! You set your

eee SE

402

claws and bring them ripping across his chest. As
soon as you make contact, the body goes limp and it
flies through the air, in response to your blow, like
an empty sack. But before it lands, it once more fills
out and takes shape. As the life surges quickly back
into it, the creature flips in the air and flies back to
land where it was! This time, the creature opens one
eye wide and glares at you. You are caught in a
vice-like grip of agony! The pain is overwhelming
and you sink to your knees whimpering in front of
the desk. You must deduct 4 STAMINA points.
While you writhe in agony, Darramouss finishes his
incantation. Turn to 286.

403-405

403

The tiny face you saw in the distance was unmistak-
ably that of a Hobbit! Unable to control yourself, you
climb to your feet and set off in pursuit. Although
you are slower than the httle creature, it leaves a trail
of glowstone light which you can follow. And even
though you have just eaten, the smell of the Hobbit
sparks off your appetite once more. But you are
much too slow to catch it. As you lumber down the
passageway, even the glowstone trail disappears.
Eventually you reach a junction. Will you continue
north (turn to 144), or will you tum to the east (turn
to 204)?

404

The passage is much wider here and footprints in
the dirt indicate that it is more frequently used. But
ali the footprints seem to be heading the other way!
A little further ahead you come to the top of a
narrow staircase heading downwards. You con-
sider this for some time, but eventually decide
against going down the steps. You turn round and
retrace your steps, this time turning east at the
junction. Turn to 373.

405
You may leave by one of the three doors leading
from the room. Which will you choose:

The door in the north wall? Turn to 300
The door in the west wall? Turn to 393
The door in the south wall? Turn to 6

406-407

406

One of the Rhino-Men catches your attention and
you remember the message. His back is a little
stooped and he is obviously past his prime. He
looks at you with tired eyes as you approach him; he
has seen many young, strong and ambitious
legionnaires in his time and he finds them quite
tedious. You step up to him and pass him the mess-
age. He steps back and looks at you incredulously.
‘Is this true?’ he stammers. ‘Is my sister safe at last?
Then I have no need to stay at this godforsaken
castle. Thank you for this news, strange creature. I
must now make my plans to leave.’ Will you join in
with his plans to leave the Testing Grounds (turn to
449), or will you continue wandering through the
groups of legionnaires (turn to 348)?

407
You glance towards the dead creature and move
away quickly. But without warning, the skeleton’s
bones spring together to re-form Quimmel Bone and
in an instant it has grabbed the two knives and is
once more attacking you. Resolve this battle:

QUIMMEL BONE

If you win, turn to 178.

SKILL 8

STAMINA 7

408~410

408
The cave leads north to a large tunnel in the rock
which runs from east to west. It is large enough for
you to walk along. Roll one die. If you roll 1-3, you
decide to turn west (turn to 282). If you roll 4-6, you
turn east (turn to 372).

499

You tug at the door and it opens to reveal a
storeroom of some kind, with shelves lining the
walls. But there is nothing on the shelves and there
seems to be no way through. As you peer into the
cupboard, a creaking sound startles you. You swing
round to see the door in the east wall slowly open-
ing. Glowstones in the passage outside flick on to
light up your way. You cannot resist this invitation
and leave through the east door. Turn to 4g.

410
The terrified shopkeeper will give you no trouble as
you help yourself to provisions. You feast on the
food while he cowers helplessly in the corner. Test
your Luck. If you are Unlucky, you eat a handful
of poisonous herbs and are violently ill (lose 3
STAMINA points). If you are Lucky, you avoid the
poisons and can add 4 STAMINA points for your
meal. When you have finished here, you may leave
the village by turning to 374.

411

411

You turn to another gravestone, keeping one eye on
the grave of Donag Haddurag and listening for
waming signs. The next grave is that of a woman,
whose inscription reads: ‘Here lies Sophia
Whiterose. Like a rosebud she blossomed with
beauty, but alas she died entwined in her own
thorns.’ You puzzle over the words — but then a
scraping sound distracts you. You look back
towards the previous gravestone and a shiver runs
down your back! A withered hand is pushing the
stone aside! Then you hear the same sound behind
you, and again to your left, as scragey limbs slowly
push gravestones aside and long-dead bodies crawl
out!

You kick the nearest gravestone closed. It slides
back into position, severing the protruding forearm,
and a muffled expression of pain comes from the
undead creature below. Four of the living corpses
rise from their graves and surround you. You must
fight them all together:

SKILL STAMINA
First ZOMBIE 6 7
Second ZOMBIE 7 7
Third ZOMBIE 6 6
Fourth ZOMBIE 7 6

If you defeat the creatures, turn to 226.
412~414

412
You pull at the pouch. As it opens, the twelve discs
tumble to the floor. You mutter in annoyance and
grovel on the ground to pick up those you can still
see in the dim light. Roll two dice. This is the
number of discs you manage to find. They are, in
fact, Gold Pieces and they may well be useful to you
later. Add 1 Luck point for your find. Turn to 115.

413

The crestures are now at the door of the crypt and
entering. You hurry off down the staircase. Pebbles,
rocks and even parts of bodies rain down on you as
you descend the stairs, thrown by the hideous
creatures on the surface. You try a little too hard to
get away from them quickly, your foot slips on a
loose rock and you tumble over and over down the
stairs. Unfortunately for you, this staircase has been
designed for unwanted visitors. At the bottom of
the stairs a dozen sharp iron spikes protrude from
the ground! There is nothing you can do to prevent
yourself landing squarely in the centre of the spikes.
Your death is instantaneous.

414
A path leads from the clearing to the north,
although you can see thatit soon forks left and right.
Will you go east (turn to 272) or west (turn to 139)?

415-417

415

You fumble about with the breastplate and eventu-
ally it slips over your shoulder and stays in place.
It will be a useful defensive piece and while you are
wearing it you may add 2 points to your Attack
Strength during each Attack Round. But it does not
fit perfectly and makes moving your arms awk-
ward. While you are wearing it, you must deduct 1
point from your SKILL score. You may now leave
the guardroom by turning to 394.

416 ;
You feast heartily on the creature. Add 4 sTAMINA
points for the nourishment. After resting to digest
the food, you pick yourself up and continue down-
stream along the river-bank, Turn to 388.

417

Marr casts his spell, but it has no effect. A startled
look appears on his face and he searches his mem-
ory for a way you could be immune to his magic. ‘Of
course,’ he nods finally. ‘The Chattermatter failed to
entice you. That incompetent fool Hannicus! His
instructions were to keep the Elven Dust walled in.
Nevertheless, | am sure that your little act of
defiance will be reconsidered in view of the riches |
may offer you . . .’ But you have other ideas. It is
now your turn to attack, and you have decided on
your target. You will not go for the necromancer
himself, but for his mirror. If you have with you a
crystal club, turn to 28. Otherwise turn to 152.

Sees /Sgueeeenennueeey enn

418-420

418

Your foot slides back over the edge of the bridge,
and you tumble through the air towards the river
below! You shudder with horror at the thought of
Janding in the filthy waters. But fate is kind to you.
Before you reach the water, your head cracks hard
against a protruding rock. You are senseless when
you hit the river and you never know the un-
pleasantness of your death in the filthy stream that
is the Bilgewater.

419
You shift your weight and turn your great bulk
around. With laboured steps you stomp back the
way you came and pass the lifeless body. Turn to
308.

420
You settle down on the floor and begin to feast on
the fleshy iegs of the first Blood Orc. The taste is not
pleasant, but you are hungry. The bearded human
continues to stumble round the room, talking in an
excited tone. Eventually he comes close to you and
trips over the body of the other Blood Orc. His hand
scrapes against your back and he shivers with
horror when he feels the scales and spines. He rises
to his knees and begins to feel your neck and head.
You are somewhat bemused by this and allow him
to continue. But when his fingers rub across your
mouth and feel your sharp fangs, he cannot contain
himself any more. Before he can even utter a
scream, he faints and slumps to the ground beside

421-422

you. You finish your meal (add 4 STAMINA points)
and leave the room. Turn to 138.

421

You turn angrily towards the peasants as a stone
hits you on the shoulder. Lose 1 STAMINA point.
The men and women are yelling at you, trying to get
you off their land. But you are furious and rush
towards them through the crops. They beat a re-
treat, keeping their distance, and hurl more stones.
Again you charge forward, again they retreat and
again comes the hail of stones. This time another
stone hits you in the chest. Lose another STAMINA
point. After two more charges, you realize that your
efforts are futile. They will always be able to move
faster than you through the crops, as your greater
bulk is slowing you down. You eventually turn from
them and return to the path. They follow you, once
more jeering and shouting, until you have left their
field and are well out of range of their stones.

Ahead of you, a green forest spreads across the
horizon and your path is taking you into it. As you
enter the forest, you reach a sign which reads ‘Knot
Oak Wood’. Turn to 244.

422
The mirror has an ornate gold frame, but otherwise
appears to be an ordinary full-sized mirror. You
consider smashing the mirror, but it is possible that
the noise may alert the crew to your whereabouts.
Turn to 302.
423-424

423

You pick your way along the river-bank, following it
downstream. The going is not easy. At one point
you must climb carefully down a rocky cliff, where
the river passes over a waterfall. Eventually you
reach a calm pool where the waters slow and spread
over a wide expanse. Steam rises lazily from the
pungent water and you halt in your tracks as the
smell — now stronger than ever — reaches you.
Through the steamy mist you catch a glimpse of a
creature further along the bank. It stands tall on four
legs and is drinking contentedly from the foul
waters. You creep closer, keeping hidden in the
bushes. The creature stands on long, cloven feet. Its
skin is covered in tough scales and its tail ends ina
spiky ball. Its head is sleek and serpent-like, with a
long, thin tongue that darts in and out as it drinks
from the river. It has not noticed you. Will you creep
- round the creature so as not to disturb it (turn to
a 120)? Will you attack it in the hope of gaining a
o taal much-needed meal (turn to 238)? Or will you
a approach it gently, try to keep it calm, and then

mount it (turn to 127)?

You follow the passage until it becomes impossible
for you to see in the total darkness. Now you must
grope your way along, feeling the walls with both
hands. Eventually a faint red glow appears on the
_ left-hand side of the passageway and you realize
youare at another fork. To the left, the way seems to
Jead to some kind of light-source. To the right, the

425

passage is still pitch-black. Will you choose the
right-hand passage (turn to 108) or the left-hand
passage (turn to 182)?

425

The door is decorated with plates and symbols
forged in metal. In the centre is a sign which reads:
‘Yfl Ipwst pnfe mj nfs. Sfrgf bnt sab ndas Ib vfs
epnly.” The door is locked, so you decide to try
breaking it down. You give ita hard shove with your
shoulder, It shudders but does not budge. Indig-
nant, you hit it again, but still it will not open. Lose 1
STAMINA point. Before you can decide whether or
not to try again, a rustling of keys in the lock is
followed by a creaking noise as the door opens, A
thin, dark face appears at the door and Jooks at you.
‘Npo nffd etpobp jl iyp vru blppd. Whb tajsijt iyp
vuwb ntaj nith fe mjnfs. Jfi jts iwpr kothf necpm fe
bbc katpmpr rpw, Baf fw epfo thfes! bvf sewjllidp
vbtl fss edjfetpdby.’ The Black Elf irritates you with
his arrogant manner. You do not want to waste time
with him. You grunt and smack your fist into the
door, knocking it wide open. It clangs into the wall
behind and the Black Elf’s jaw drops open.

The room inside is sparse. There is a table and chair
against one wall and on the table stands a plate with
some food on it and a bottle of drink. Behind the
table two bunches of keys are hanging on the wall.
An archway leads from the room into the blackness
beyond. You step inside and the Black Elf pounces.
You must fight him:

426-427

BLACK ELF SKILL 7 STAMINA 6

After two Attack Rounds, turn to 275.

426
The medicine-man shuffles over toa shelf full of jars
and takes one down. ‘This healing balm,’ he boasts,
‘is the finest south of Dree. But I have never had the
chance to test it on a creature such as you. Please
allow me to try it.’ He spreads some of the ointment
across your chest and rubs it deep into your scales.
He continues until he has rubbed it all over your
body. The effect is almost immediate. You begin to
feel strong and rejuvenated. His healing balm
actually works better on you than it does on humans.
You may restore your STAMINA to its Initial level.
Then you leave the village of Coven by turning to

374-

427

You follow the river up the valley until you reach a
point where it comes out of a cave in the side of the
hill. There is no path into the cave, just the river. If
you tum round and follow the river downstream
instead, turn to 423. Otherwise you may either
jump into the river and follow it into the cave (turn
to 345), or forget about the river and stomp off
through the undergrowth (turn to 57).

428-430

428

The face swirls within the murky mist inside the orb
and you watch to see what will happen next.
Gradually the face re-forms, but this time it looks
larger than before and the sightless eyes begin to
glow red like hot coals. Suddenly a small fireball
shoots from one eye straight towards you! You
jump to avoid it but it catches your leg below the
knee and makes you howl in pain. The second eye
releases its fireball and this one hits you on your arm
just above the elbow. Lose 4 sTAmMINA points for
these injuries. Leave quickly by turning to 81.

429
As you crash out of the bushes into the clearing, the
battle halts temporarily and all three combatants
stare incredulously at you. You must resolve your
battle with the Brigands, who will fight you
together. The thin creature is too badly beaten to be
of any help and drops to the ground moaning:

SKILL STAMINA
First BRIGAND 8 9
Second BRIGAND 8 7

If you defeat them, turn to 448.

430
You step forward and cross the cavern, heading
for the northerly passage. All is silent from the
caves. Perhaps whatever was eating there has now
wandered off. You reach the other side without
incident. Turn to 41.

431-432

431

‘A poor show,’ Thugruff sneers, ‘for one seemingly
with such power. Recover your breath.’ While you
are picking yourself up, the Half-Troll whispers
quietly to the Pixie you met on the gate: ‘You know
what todo...” When you have caught your breath,
the Pixie leads you over to a circle in an unoccupied
comer of the grounds. ‘Wait here,’ he says. You
wait. Looking at the strange circle, you see that it is
not simply a mark on the ground, but a length of
rope, arranged in a circular shape. The end of the
rope leads off in the direction the Pixie went and is
tied to a tree. In fact it is tied to the fop of the tree,
which has been bent right over to touch the ground!
It is held by another rope, stretched tight by the tree
and fastened halfway up its trunk! You suddenly
realize what is happening. At the same time you
notice the Pixie, standing by the second rope with a
sharp knife! Before you can move, he has cut the
rope. The tree snaps upwards, drawing the circle of
rope tightly around your leg and taking you up with
it until you hang helplessly, suspended at tree-top
level by your foot. Turn to 175.

432

They seem reluctant to advance towards you. Your
size and your angry snarl must be daunting to them.
They mumble something to each other and turn
round. They have decided to leave you and are
retracing their steps. Their glowstone goes out and
you lose sight of them. You may now continue
safely. Turn to 137.

433-435

Following the Jabberwing’s advice, you set off
northwards. You pause on top of a hillock and
survey the area. In the distance to your right you can
see a great forest and straight ahead a river cuts
through the landscape like a gaping wound. You
head on and, a short distance after you have left the
hillock, another trail joins yours from the right.
Turn to 134.

434
The Tree Spirits are tightening the circle, moving in

closer and closer. You are hoplessly trapped. They
are not evil creatures, but they allow no one to
pass through their forest without permission. The
penalty is death!

435
The heavy knocker booms loudly on the metal plate.

A grunting noise comes from behind the door and
you can hear feet shuffling as some sort of creature
responds to your knock. The door slowly creaks
open and a long snout appears. Small, pig-like eyes
peer out at you from behind the single tusk which
stands in the middle of the Rhino-Man’s face. The
door opens wider and you can see the creature’s
stout, heavily armed torso and legs. It speaks to
you: ‘Cp mfepn othfn. Whb tabv sjn fsseh b vfey
pvu hfrf.B nswfarqvjc kly.’ Jfi ypvu cbnav ndfrs tbn
d athf ecrfb tvrfetv rnujm mfd jbtf lyet porf ffr fn cfe
sjxty itwp. “Lps toyp vrotp ngvf efh. Th fne bfgpnf.
Bfe pffow jthiy pv ubff prfe jid fc jd fetpohb vfe belj
ttlfebb ttlfepr bet jcf.’ He is closing the door without

436-438

letting you in. Will you shove the door and step in to
attack (turn to 357), or leave, return to the junction
and take the northern passage (turn to 144)?

436
You have four doors to choose from. Will you try the

door in the east wall (turn to 49), the west wall (turn
to 409), the north wall (turn to 262) or the south wall
(turn to 201)?

437
‘No gesture? Darramouss gave you no gesture?’ The

guard is incredulous. You shrug as if to say that you
did not see Darramouss. ‘But Darramouss is always
in his chamber. Look, wait here for a moment. I
must check his room.’ The guard grabs a club and
rushes off down the passage, leaving you on your
own. Will you keep your word and remain where
you are until he returns (turn to 38), or will you step
into his room and look for a way out (turn to 54)?

438
The villagers watch wide-eyed as their champion

drops to the ground. Then anger takes over. ‘Rog is
dead!’ cries a voice. ‘Let’s get that thing that done it!’
One of them nips back into the hut and produces a
pitchfork. ‘Quick!’ comes a gruff voice from behind
you. ‘We must leave quickly. Come with me.’ The
Half-Ore is beckoning you to follow him out of the
village. You look again at the villagers and decide
that his suggestion is a sensible one. The two of you
continue, pursued by the villagers, until you reach

439

the edge of Coven, where they stop and watch you
leave, jeering and shaking their fists.

‘A foolish thing to do, that,’ says the Half-Orc, his
sly eyes glancing over at you. ‘Getting involved in
someone else’s fight. If I’d been you, I would have
left you to fight your own battle. Chances are he
would have killed me. But then what's that to you?
And all because I ate his dog. What does he expect? I
was hungry! I suppose I could have killed it first. . .
Would you not have done the same? Well, wouldn’t
you? Lost your tongue? The silent type, eh? Well I
am Grognag Clawtooth. Call me Grog. Which way
are you heading? Carrying anything interesting?
Shall we travel together?’

The creature is shorter than you are. He is dirty and
he smelis. His jet-black hair is untidy and has not
been cut for far too long. His clothes are little better
than rags, although he wears a thick leather breast-
plate and a battered sword hangs from his belt. The
two of you will continue your journey together. For
as long as he is with you, watch out for reference
numbers. If you turn to any references ending ina 7
(e.g. 247), deduct 52 from it and turn to this new
reference. Read the two together, Continue now by
turning to 107,

439
You growl suspiciously and step closer to the figure.

The spines on your back are bristling and every
muscle is tense. You extend one arm just far enough
to hook a claw under the ragged cowl and flick it

440-441

aside. But beneath the cowl is not what you were
expecting! The sight of the rotten head with its
gaping eye-sockets makes you stagger back in
fright! An evil laugh resounds through the air,
coming not from the figure, but from the glistening
Chattermatter hanging from the ceiling. Having
snared you into its lair with its ability to speak in
many tongues, it now drops from its perch to cover
you with its sticky, web-like body. While you
struggle in vain inside the living slime, it releases its
deadly poison, which will paralyse you. As your
struggles subside, the Chattermatter begins to
digest your tasty body. You will get no further!

440

Your curiosity has been aroused but not captured by
the creature squirming within the sack. You give it a
heavy kick as you pass, and send it scuttling across
the floor. Whatever is inside squeals for mercy but
falls silent after colliding painfully with the stony
wail. You continue past it along the passage, your
way still lit by eerie blue glowstones. Suddenly, you
hear a footstep. You stop to listen hard. A shape
forms in the passageway before you! Tum to 63.

441
You rush boldly round the corner to face whatever is
making the creaking. Glowstones in the ceiling
blink quickly on in front of you, trying to keep up
with your progress. After a few steps, you reach a
junction with another passage, which runs from
east to west. And on the left-hand wall you discover

442

the source of the creaking — a sign, suspended ona
short pole. A cool breeze is wafting through the
passage and this is causing the sign to creak as it
swings backwards and forwards. You study the
sign, which reads: ‘Yfllp wst pnfe mjnfs eth jsiwby’.
Underneath the letters, there is a large arrow point-
ing eastwards. You glare angrily at the sign for
worrying y »u and swipe at it with your claw. But it
is too high up for you to reach. Will you take the
sign’s advice and turn to the east (turn to 122), or
would you rather go west (turn to 208)?

442
The guard draws a bunch of keys out of his pocket
and opens the metal door to let you through. You
grunt in thanks, and begin climbing the steps. At
the top, you find yourself in a cold, stone-walled
room with a large stone platform in its centre.
Carvings and symbols decorate the platform, which
is lit up by a beam of light froma crack in the ceiling.
You edge around the room until you reach a door,
which you shove open. The sight which greets you
makes your eyes open wide. . .

Space! You have escaped from the dungeon and
have emerged into cool night air. Slowly you survey
the landscape, your mind filled with wonder at the
space all around. You appear to be standing in an
open field in which stones have been fixed in reg-
ular rows. Some lie down flat on the ground and
some are standing up. To your left, near the edge of
this field, is a large building with a tall, pointed roof.
On the other side, to the right, is a wood, anda path

443-445

leads straight into the wood from where you are
now. Overhead, a huge white orb hangs in the sky
giving some light, but this light dwindles when
great smoky masses drift across in front of it. You
are overawed by your new environment. Would
you like to investigate some of the stones set into the
ground around you (turn to 198)? Would you like to
look around the old building (turn to 123)? Or would
you like to leave this area along the path into the
woods (turn to 261)?

443
You follow the passage to the north until you reacha

junction. To the left you can see that the passage
soon reaches a dead end, but on a ledge in the end
wall isa large orb of clear stone. To the right you can
see that the passage disappears around a bend
heading northwards. Will you turn left (turn to 155)
or right (turn to 81)?

444
The room seems to be uninteresting and you turn to

leave. You head back up the passageway until you
reach the junction where you continue westwards,
Turn to 309.

445
You retract your claws, so you may feel the strange

shape with your fingertips, and you step up close to
it. But as you bend down to touch the dark circle, it
moves much more swiftly than ever you could. In
an instant, it has expanded to engulf the very

446

ground on which you are standing. You suddenly
find that you are standing, not on solid rock, but on

. -nothing! Down you fall, through the void, until
the journey becomes too much for you. You pass
out in the blackness and will never know the grue-
some fate which awaits you in the depths of the
Blackmouth Floortrap.

446
You deliver the death-blow and the Knight drops to
the ground. With the danger now over, your
thoughts turn to food. The smell of the still-warm
Hobbit reaches your nostnils and your mouth begins
to water. You snatch the creature in one hand and
eagerly sink your teeth into its sweet flesh. But this
will merely provide a snack for you. Inside his
armour, the Knight is an impossible meal, but the
red-robed Wizard groaning on the floor may be a
new taste for you to savour. You silence his miser-
able whimpers with a single deadly slash from your
claws. For the tasty meal you may restore your
STAMINA to its Initial level.

After you have eaten, you rummage through the
adventurers’ belongings. Their packs have little to
interest you. The Hobbit carried a miniature sword
and you find a rolled up piece of thin parchment in
the Wizard’s robe. All three humans carried odd-
shaped lumps of a doughy substance ~- perhaps
food, although it smells of nothing to you. They all
also have small hide pouches containing round, flat
objects of shiny metal. You cannot think what these
may be for, so you toss them aside. You must now

447

continue your journey. Passages lead off from the
chamber to the north, east and west.

You decide to take the passageway to the west. You
leave the chamber, your way ahead lit by the flicker-
ing fire. Eventually, the fire’s light becomes too
distant to help and you are groping your way in
pitch-blackness. Suddenly a high-pitched twitter-
ing sound comes from above you, followed by
others. You have disturbed a group of flying crea-
tures, which are now squeaking in alarm as they
dart about around you! You swipe at them blindly
and catch one or two of them as they dive at you and
scratch you with sharp claws. But your scales pro-
tect you from any serious harm and you are soon
further along the passage, where these creatures
evidently do not venture. The passage turns north.
You follow it around the bend to the right and stop
in front of a wooden door. There is no other way
forward. Will you heave at the door with your
shoulder or is there something else you wish to do?
Roll one die. If you roll 1 or 2, turn to 277. If you roll
3-6, turn to 101.

447
Your eyes widen as three scrawny creatures form

before you. They are thin and angular and move in
quick, jerky motions. Although their bodies are
covered in a scraggy dark fur, their bony faces are
bald, with tiny eyes. In the centre of each face is an
oversized, protruding mouth, rimmed with sharp
teeth. These vicious little Flesh-Feeders live on car-
tion. While feeding they make themselves invisible

448

to avoid being caught unawares. But in between
meals they are both visible and quick-tempered.
They now face you, furious that their meals have
been interrupted, and you must battle with the
creatures. They attack together:

SKILL STAMINA

First FLESH-FEEDER 6 6
Second FLESH-FEEDER 6 7
Third FLESH-FEEDER 6 6

If you defeat them, turn to 89.

448

Exhausted from your battle, your attentions turn to
the white-haired creature lying moaning on the
ground. Seeing that the battle is over and that you
mean him no harm, he turns towards you. As he
speaks to you he winces in pain from his beating: ‘I
offer you — aaaaah! — my thanks for your aid. My
name is —000h! ~is Whiteleaf. lam —unnngh!—an Elf.
Home for me is the village of Ethelle Amaene.’ He
turns over on to his back and continues: ‘Aaahhhh,
that’s better. . . [know these woods well. Perhaps I
can be of service to you in return?’ What would you
like him to tell you:

Anything he knows about Stitle

Woad? Turn to 58
What he knows of the Galleykeep? Turn to 269
More about himself? Turn to 167

449

449
Old Twenty-nine — the legionnaires proudly refer to

themselves by their numbers — has been at the fort
for some time. He knows everything that happens
and all the ways to escape. The two of you spend the
evening together and he is happy to talk about his
own past, though his stories do tend to ramble. He
and his sister were recruited into the service of
Zharradan Marr many years ago. Rhino-Men are
particularly suitable as guards and Twenty-nine can
remember being a member of Marr’s personal guard
during the sacking of Salamonis. But he disliked
Zharradan Marr.

The turning-point in his career came when he was
caught drinking in Salamonis with another Rhino-
Man who was known to be engaged by Marr’s
former colleague, but now arch-enemy, Balthus
Dire. This incident marked the end of his progress
in Marr’s army. From then on he was watched,
imprisoned and punished regularly by Thugruff.
His sister was held prisoner in Marr’s dungeons in
case he should decide to try escaping. Now that his
sister is safe, he can at last be free from the
Half-Troll’s tyranny.

Later that night, under cover of darkness, he leads
you to an area in the wall where the stones have
been loosened. With a little work, you are able to
clear a hole large enough for the two of you to get
through. You leave the Testing Grounds and con-
tinue through the woods all night. He promises to
lead you to someone who can tell you more about
yourself, someone who he knows lives in a clearing
450-451

in the woods. But he will be recognized if he goes
with you. Finally you reach a trail which heads
north. Twenty-nine tells you to follow the trail,
while he sets off to the west. Buta short time after he
has left, you hear a cry coming from his direction.
Will you rush after him to see if you can help (turn to
10), or ignore him and continue (turn to 174)?

450
You leave the room and find yourself once more in

the east-west passageway you entered from. You
remember the noises you heard behind the door
ahead to the east. But there is no other way forward.
The door is locked, so you must once again charge
it. Turn to 263

451

You creep slowly into the blackness, your claws
ready to strike. You can now hear the heavy breath-
ing of a large animal close by. In an instant, the
creature strikes! Two heavy blows crash down on
your back and send you sprawling into the depths
of the cave. The attack is accompanied by a shrill
whinnying and you spin round to face your at-
tacker. Silhouetted in the cave entrance you can see
that your opponent is a frightened horse, which is
balancing on its hind legs, ready to strike again! Lose
2 STAMINA points for the blows you have already
taken. If you think the creature might make a tasty
meal, you may fight it by turning to 355. Otherwise
you may avoid the horse, leave the cave and make
your way back to the crossroads by turning to 386.

_

-

452-455

452

You step up to the chair and look at the figure. An
ugly face protrudes from the red cape. Its strong
jaws have sharp biting teeth, but the dark skin is
stretched tightly over the creature’s lumpy skull.
The eyes bulge beneath its closed eyelids as if they
were trying to burst out. You take the cape in your
claw and siowly lift it. At that moment, the crea-
ture’s eyes flick open! It springs from its chair and
fastens its teeth into your neck before you have time
to react! Lose 2 STAMINA points. You must now
resolve your battle with the Blood Ore:

BLOOD ORC
If you defeat the creature, turn to 207.

SKILL 7 STAMINA 5

453
You spend some time watching insects scuttling

about on the surface of the pond and enjoy the
twittering of the birds in the branches high above.
Eventually you decide to press on. Add 2STAMINA
points for the rest and turn to 52.

454
You follow the staircase downwards, your huge feet

desperately trying to maintain their balance on the
narrow stairs. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn
to 37. If you are Unlucky, turn to 413.

455
You slip away from Thugruff and make your way
round to the front of the building, where the gates
456-458

are locked shut. Once more the little Pixie appears.
‘What is this?’ he smiles. ‘Leaving us so soon?’ You
grunt and nod your head. ‘But you surely cannot
wish to go already. You cannot refuse our hospital-
ity.’ There is a hint of menace in the little creature’s
voice, although there is surely nothing any creature
so puny can do to harm you. He is leading you back
into the Testing Grounds. Will you pull away from
him and assert your wish to leave (turn to 335), or let
him persuade you to return (turn to 385)?

; 456
The pitiful figure whimpering on the ground puts
up No resistance as you end its miserable life. You
may feast on the body and, if you do so, you will
gain 4 STAMINA points. Then leave the village of
Coven by turning to 374.

457
You regain your footing and hurry across the bridge

to the other side. Shaken by your near accident, you
continue until you arrive at a side passage on the
right. You do not like the look of this side passage,
so you continue eastwards. Turn to 122.

458
You crouch low and squeeze through the narrow
gap. As you pass through the doorway, a single
glowstone flicks on to reveal the contents of the
small chamber which you are now standing in. The
room is completely bare except for a large chest
against one of the walls. You step over and examine

459

the chest. You push it, shove it and bash it, trying to
break it open. Finally, a lucky push opens the lid.
Inside, you find two mysterious objects. The first is
a large circular plate made of strong metal. It has a
sharp spike which protrudes from the centre on one
side and two leather straps on the other. On the
same side as the straps is attached a leather pouch
which may be useful for carrying things. The other
object is a piece of rough, coloured rock, about the
size of your forearm. One end is wide and the other
is much narrower. It is a dull green colour and
glistens faintly in the light. But it appears very
brittle. It may make a useful weapon gripped by the
tapered end, but it would no doubt not last long in
battle. You may take one of these items with you.
Any metallic discs may be placed in the pouch on
the plate if you choose this object. If you choose the
plate, turn to 197. If you choose the rock, turn to110.

459
You turn back towards the door. ‘I see you got the

hint,’ mocks Nimbicus. ‘Don’t bother apologizing
for the fact that you have just ruined my concen-
tration. I shall have to start reading my tome again.
But don’t let that worry you. Oh, no. Close the door
on the way out. We probably won’t meet again.
Leastways, not if see you first. Bah!’ You leave the
Weather Mage and return to the hallway. The noise
outside is spreading, as more of the crew join in the
search for you. You must now choose another
room. You quickly study the symbols again. Will

you try:
460

The jug of water? Turn to 346
The fire? Turn to 29
The crown? Turn to 229
The crossed swords? Turn to111
None of these? Turn to 302

460

‘Our partnership will be supreme in Allansia.
Together we shall rule. If it is riches you desire, then
you shall have all the wealth you can use. If your
lust is for power, then I shall give you western
Allansia as your own empire.’ His words are spilling
out with mounting anxiety. But you are not listen-
ing. Instead you are preparing to swing your club.
‘Do I waste my words?’ he screams. ‘Then think on
this. If I should be lost, how will you regain your
former self? Will you be content to remain a beast
for the rest of your days, constantly feared, hated
and even hunted by your own kind?’

This time, his words stop you. You consider them.
Should he disappear for ever, perhaps you will
spend the rest of your days banished from civiliz-
ation, an enemy of your own race. But then what

tei ae

4 lige ee - ae geeeere © = @) am s-seb -

460

guarantee do you have that Marr's experiments are
reversible? None! You glance back up at him just in
time to catch him wiping the smile from his face. He
has been playing for time! His image is disappear-
ing! Furiously you grab your club. Your eyes nar-
row; you grit your teeth. A low growl comes from
deep in your throat. As Marr’s image fades you
move quickly. In a trice you have grabbed the club
and swung it. The room is filled with the sound of
breaking glass as the mirror shatters into tiny frag-
ments before you. The portal from his land of limbo
has been destroyed! He may never return to your
world!

You turn towards the door. A bolt of pain shoots up
from your foot! You have cut yourself on a splinter
from the glass. But this should not be! The thick
scales on your feet should not be scratched by such
tiny fragments. You look down. And then you
realize what has happened.

Your greeny-brown, scaly foot is no more. Instead
the foot is pale-skinned and vulnerable. The claws
have gone too! Your hands have returned to their
human form and, when you look at your reflection
in a fragment of mirror left hanging in the frame, a
familiar face stares back wide-eyed at you! Marr's
experiments were performed by sorcery, not
surgery, and when he disappeared, the spell was
broken!

As your memory returns, you remember the bitter
struggle high over the Moonstone Hills, when Zhar-
radan Marr and his winged Tooki forces bore down

ee
460

on your Galleykeep in overwhelming numbers. Like
a raging stormcloud, the dark Tooki — a specially
bred race of War Griffins - swooped down on the
ship, their mounted Blood Orc archers raining
arrows and killing many of your crew. The surprise
attack was so quick, and so deadly, that you had
no option but to surrender. As Zharradan Marr
stepped down off his own richly adorned Tooki on
to the deck of the Galleykeep, you swore you would
avenge this defeat. But Marr had other plans for
you...

The tables have now been turned. You are back in
your position as Commander of the Galleykeep.
Marr’s brainless creatures will respect your auth-
ority. Though Marr may have shown you a mercy of
sorts, you in turn gave him the mercy he deserved:
none!

ei iw fii

AMPIRI
als

ne

