FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS

Over 10 million copies sold worldwide! ens Se

——

J 3" ACKSON
wut “LIVINGSTONE

Creatures from your worst nightmares li
beneath? Neches t

reel{.

ne
-" -
OF Nees a Qs

7
r
ft

14-0322

9 Ill 585

Qf Su

il

PHO RD S aAPK

YR

7
-

PUFFIN BOOKS

BENEATH NIGHTMARE CASTLE

You are a travel-weary hero, returning to the town of
Neuburg in Khul to visit your old friend Baron Tholdur,
when a moment of carelessness lands you in captivity.
Will you escape? And even if you do, what will you find
in Neuburg? For things have changed there; all is not as it
seems, and beneath the Keep lie hideous horrors, which
you must face if you are to free the town from the ly
hand of grim sorcery, and rid it once and for all from the
resurrected terror of the past.

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you need to
embark on this thrilling adventure, which is complete
with its elaborate combat systern and a score-sheet to
record your gains and losses,

Many dangers lie ahead and your success is by no means
certain. YOU decide which routes to follow, which dan-
gers to risk and which monsters to fight!
1.

Fighting Fantasy Gamcbhooks

TRE WAKLICK OF FIRETOP
MOUNTAIN

. THESTIADEL OFC MARS

TUE FOREST OF DOCM

. STARSHIP TRAVEL LCR

» CITC OF THIEVES

. DEATATRAL OUR GEN

. ISLAND OF THE LIZARD XINC

. SCORPION SWAMP

. CAVERNS DIT SRW WITCH

HOUSE OF HELL

>. TALISMAN Droste

SPACE ASSASSIN

. FREEWAY PiGHrin

TEMPLE OE TERROR
THE RINGS OF ETHER

. SPAS OF BLOON

APPOINTMENT WITHE EAR.
REBEL PLANT

NEMONS OF THE DEEF
SWORD TIE THES ARIAT

Steve Jackson's SORCERY!

.

>

4

THE RIODLING KLAVER
THh TROULILTINITH WARS — 4 Fightoig Fantaxe Nowe

The Advanced Cightirg fortasy Spetem

THE SHAMIITANTE ONE LS
KIEARS  CITYPORT OF TRAFS
THE SEVER HEDIS

THE CROWN OF RINGS

35. SKY LORD
. STPALMI OS MILs

. DACCERS OF DARKNESS

Foar Thing Adrencurs:

-. CREATCRESF Havoc

. HENEATIL NIDIITMARD CASTLE
. CRYPT CF THESORCERER

- STARSTRIOK

. MICNIGHT ROCUE

. BATTLESLADE WARKIOR

. VAULT OF THE VAMFIRE
30. PARTS OF TImY

. DEAD OF NICHT

- MADIPR DOPCMADS

TRIAL CIS CHAVTIONS

. ROSCT COMMANDO

VASEKSUDMATING

PHANTOMS OF FEAR

CHASMS OF MALICE

SLAVIC- OF TIP ASIN

AfMIES OF DEATH
PORTAL OF EVI

FIKSHTING FANTASY - The Introeuctory Role-Pleeone Gere 3 |

Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone

present:

ULE GO? LIF PET = hiehting Rovere Plonsces

TITAN - The Pichteny Tarctese World

DUN CLUNELER - An inkecuccion ta the Wedd of Rede Paypu

ss Limes

Iilustrated by Dave Carson
Puffin Books

ele Mogwore een aoe
sagan se Ge i ht et = — =

pated sr

eee apc Se non and en
Siacopraph fac turns
ator ave Case
oeghe reco

scp he Did Se er
neared te coin

Foy Cherit
CONTENTS

9
4
eet
BackGxouND
BENEATH NIGHTMARE CASTLE
YOUR CHARACTER

You are a warrior, a skilled and hardy adventurer.
Your last escapade was Jess than successful, and
you face your next adventure with litle money and
no food. Your abilities, however, are as noteworthy
as ever; you will use dice to determine your exact
attributes, and on pages 18—19 there is an Adnenture
Sheet on which you will record your scores and the
incidents of your adventure. Use a pencil, or make
photocopies of the Adventure Sheet, as you will
almost certainly need to make more than one
attempt to solve the mystery Beneath Nightmare
Castle.

Skill, Stamina, Luck and Willpower

Roll one die. Add 6 to the score and enter the total in
the sKILt box on the Adventure Sheet.

Roll two dice. Add 12 to the score and enter the total
in the STAMINA box.

Roll one die. Add 6 to the score and enter the total in
the LUCK box.

Roll one die. Add 6 to the score and enter the total in
the WILLPOWER box.
These are your /nitial scores and you must keep a
permanent record of them. All your scores may
change during youradventure, but they will exceed
your Intiel amounts only on very rare occasions.
You must keep a record of all changes to your scores
— $0 write small or use a rubber.

Your SKILL score reflects your expertise in combat,
your ability with weapons and your dexterity. Your
STAMINA is your health, fitness and ability to sur-
vive wounds and physical hardship. Your tuck
score shows how lucky you arc. WILLPOWER is a
mcasure of your mental stability and determination;
the higher it is, the more you can cope with pain,
despair and unpleasant surprises.

to

COMBAT

During the course of your adventure you will meet
other people and creatures. Same of them will
attack you; others vou will decide to fight. The
procedure for resolving battles is described below.

SKILL and STAMINA scores are given in the text for
each opponent that you meet. Write these scores in
the first yacant Monster Encounter Box on the
Adventure Skeet. Record also any special abilities or
instructions that are unique to this particular oppo-
nent. The sequence is then:

1. Roll two dice for your opponent. Add the total to
his sKILi score. [his is his Attack Strength.

2. Roll two dice and add the total to your current
SKILL score. this is your Attack Strength.

3. If your Attack Strength is the higher, you have
wounded your opponent. Go to step 4. If your
opponent's Attack Strength is higher, he has
wounded you. Go to step 5. If the Attack
Strength totals are the same, you have avoided
each other's blows — start a new Attack Round
from step 1-

4. Subtract 2 points from your opponent's sTa4-
MINA. You may be able to deduct additional
points if you use your 1.UcK (see belaw) or if you
have a special weapon. Go to step 6.

3- Subtract 2 points from your STAMINA. You may

Ti
use your LUCK to reduce this loss (see below).

6. Make sure you have recorded on the Adventure
Sheet all adjustments to sTAMINA and LucK
SCOTS.

. Begin the next Attack Round, starting again at
step 1. This sequence continues until either you
or your opponent has asTAMINA soore of zero. If
your opponent's STAMINA score reaches zero,
you have killed him and can continue with your
adventure. If your STAMINA score reaches Zero,
you are dead; you must start the adventure again
from the beginning, having rolled dice to create a
new character.

“~]

You may be given the opportunity to Esazpe from
some opponents. If you decide to do so, the battle
ends — but your opponent automatically wounds
you once as you flee, You must deduct 2 STAMINA
points, You can use your LUCK on this wound as on
any other (see below}.

Often you will have to fight more than one oppo-
nent at the same ime. Sometimes you will treat
them as a single opponent; sometimes you will be
able to fight them one ata time; and sometimes all of
them will be able to attack you while you defend
yourself and attack only one of them. Specific in-
Structions will be given whenever you meet more
than one opponent.

<= r-5- —
go ae f=
_— -*

AS ae = See =~.

32

Using Luck in Combat

You Gan use your LUCKin combat to inflicta particu-
larly serious wound, or to minimize a wound that
has been inflicted on you.

Whenever you wound an opponent, you may Test
your Luck, Roll two dice; if the total score is equal to
or less than your LUCK score, you have been Lucky.
if the total is higher than your LucK score, you are
Unlucky. Whatever the result, you must deduct 1
pomet from your current tuck score. If you are
Lucky, you have inflicted a severe wound: deduct
an extra 2 points fom your opponent's STAMINA. If
you are Unlucky, you have merely grazed him, and
you deduct 1 less point of STAMINA than normal.

if you have been wounded, you can Tes! your Luck in
exactly the same way. Remember to deduct 1 point
from your Luck whatever the result. lf you are
Lucky, the wound was only a glancing blow and
you can deduct 1 Jess point of stamina than usual.
if you are Unlucky, the wound is more serious:
deduct 1 extra STAMINA point.

13
HINTS ON PLAY

Skill

Your SKILL will not change much during your
adventure, and you should change it only if given
specific instructions in the text. As SKILL is 2 mea-
sure of combat prowess, it can be reduced by losing
your weapon or by the effects of poison, for m-
stance; acquiring a magical weapon could increase
your SKILL — but remember that you can use only
one weapon ata time!

Stamina

Your STAMINA sill change frequently during your
adventure as you suffer wounds and then recover.
At various times you will be given opportunities to
eal meals and to buy provisions. Eating a meal
normally restores up to 4 points of STAMINA; you
may eat only one meal at a time, even though you
may have more in your backpack. Unless speafi-
cally stated, your staAMINA may never exceed its
finfial score.

14

Luck

There will be times when the success or failure of
your exploits will depend entirely on your Luck,
You will be instructed to Test your Luck, the pro-
cedure for which is as follows, Roll two dice. If the
total score is equal to or less than your LUCK score,
you are Lucky. Lf the total is higher than your Luck
score, you are Unlucky. Whatever the outcome, you
must deduct 1 point from your LUCK score. As you
will see, the more you use your Luck, the less likely
you are to be Lucky. There will be occasions when
you are able to recover some pvints of Luck, but

unless specifically stated your score cannot exceed
its Initial value.

15
Willpower

WILLPOWER works in exactly the same way as
LUCK, and the procedures and comments described
above for LUCK apply equally to WILLPOWER. As
with LUCK, you must remember to deduct a point
from your WILLPOWER score after each ime that
you Test your Willpower. There is, however, one
extra pitfall: at the start of your adventure you are
already tired, and you are about to meet a succes-
sion of horrible and unnatural creatures. If your
WILLPOWER drops below 6 points, and you then
Test your Willpower unsuccessfully, you will lose
your grip on sanity, and your adventure will be
over.

16

Equipment

You trudge down from the hills with only your
armour, your sword and your backpack. You have
no food and very little monev.

Getting Started

Neuburg is a dangerous place, and you are very
unlikely fo succeed in your mission at the first
attempt. It is recommended that you make noles
and draw a map as you explore, There is a way to
succeed that involves little risk of death or madness,
even if you start with low Imfial scores. There are
many more routes that lead to failure and un-
pleasant fates.

Start with the ‘Background’ section; then ¢o on to
the section headed with the number 1, After that go
to whichever numbered section you are instructed
to. Do not read sections you have not been told ta: it
amounts to cheating and will lessen your enjoy-
ment.

17
, SKILL

ADVENTURE SHEE] MONSTER ENCOUNTER BOXES

———

Dozzéucl justia!
Skills Slonsina=

|
a

EQUIPMENT
GOLD PIFCES
POTIONS

A
STAMINA

pence —

iuvk=

main am En OT

SENT Shil=
Slane | Stuming=

= t Siatt= : Skiil=
Bemis Shar Stemina=
v NI LLPOW!
Initia!
} Wilpaeer =
pert}, DLN ae
S >= Sket at = S& i=
= ‘= Shura = Stanting=
— i
PROVISIO® { =
——— ski | —— Skill
= s- Staniina=

BACKGROUND

Captured! Netted, strung up and helpless! You
curse yourself for an inattentive fool.

So much for the peace and quiet of avilization! It
was daydreaminy about the comforts of home that
got you into this mess. But even the hardiest adven-
turer can tire of life in the wilderness and begin to
yearn for a soft bed, and it was difficult to think of
anything else as you trudged to the summit of the
last of the foothills and glimpsed the town of
Neuburg baskiny in the afternoon sun.

You know Neuburg; you have been here once be-
fore. ltis nota large settlement, but you rememberit
as peaceful and prosperous. The black battlements
of the Keep of Neuburg seem to loom threateningly
over the little town; but Baron Tholdur, the Mar-
grave of Neuburg Keep, is an old friend of yours. He
is More than a friend, in fact — he is a Comrade-in-
arms. The two of you fought side by side at the
Battle of Helm Hill, a renowned victory which has,

20

so far, prevented any further incursions by the
Southerners of the steppes. You had been looking
forward to secing the old warrior again; and instead
you have let yourself be caught by a band of those
very same southern barbarians,

Nearing the end of a hard trek down from the
mountains, with the roof-tops of Neuburg in sight
and your head filled with thoughts of a hearty meal,
you failed to notice the warning signs. The bushes at
the side of the trail rustled — and not quite at the
Same time as the wind gusted across the hills.
Bird-song broke out as you approached a solitary
tree, and you should have noticed that it was not
entirely like any bird-song you had heard before. At
any other time you would have stopped and looked
around before stepping under thal overhanging
branch —it was such an obvious place for a trap.

And then the ground gave way beneath your feet.
Voices shouted in an unfamiliar tongue. You strug-
gled, but could hardly move. And here you are. It’s
dark: you're ina pit. The ropes about you are pulled
ughter. You move upwards, outinto the light. You
are in 2 net, hanging from a branch, and you are
surrounded by silent swordsmen swathed in flow-
ing robes. As you spin slowly, their glittering eyes
and gleaming blades seem to circle you. You
simpse the lowering shape of Neuburg Keep, and
then something very heavy hits the back of your
head. Pain . . . flashing lights — you lose all con-
sciousness...

NOW TURN OVER

21
1
You wake. A particularly insistent Dwarf black-
smith seems to be using your head as an anvil. Your
hands and feet are tightly bound, and a blindfold
covers your eyes. You cannot move, you cannot see,
and you can hear only distant, indistinct sounds.

Time passes. The pain in your head subsides to a
dull throb. Nothing else happens. Then you hear a
voice, an urgent whisper: ‘My friend! Hush! Say
nothing! | have a sharp knife, but i dare not stay
long. I cannot enter through this small space; you
must pull yourself a little to your right and I will
sever your bonds. Hurry!

Do you trust this unknown voice and shuffle nearer
in the hope that your ropes will be cut? If so, turn to
331. LF you reject this offer of help, turn to x30.

2

Neuburg Keep’s outermost fortification is a high
battlemented wall that surrounds the summit of
Castle Hill. The main gate is between two stout
square towers. The drawbridge over the dry moatis
down, and as you cross it one of the huge gates
grinds open. Will you stride in confidently (turn to
324), or will you draw your sword and creep
cautiously over the threshold (tum to 193)?

3-4

3
If you want to eat a meal {and recover some sTA-

MINA) you can do so now. You can also choose tu
offer food to the Dwarf. He will certainly accept if
you do.

if you decide that you cannot afford to waste your
provisions by handing them out to other peaple, the
Dwarf will understand your pomt of view and, if
you eat, he will watch glumly until you finish your
meal. Deduct any food you have consumed from
your Adventure Sheet and turn to 396.

If you give food to the Dwarf you must deduct one
portion of provisions for the food he eats, plus
another one if you eat too. If you have only one
Porton in your pack, you can share it with the
Dwarf — but you will regain only 2 points of sTa-
MIN A_ Turn to 334-

4
You step out of empty air into a place that you know

at once is alien and wrong. The magic portal has
transported you across unguessable gulfs, and you
are in a place that has not a single element of
familiarity. It is night, but the breeze carries the
pertume of unknown flowers; the shapes of the
trees are all wrong. The moon is too big, tou yellow.
it seems to have a sardonically winking face. . .

i you can successfully Test your Willpower, you will
remain sanc; but you will never return to Khul-.
5-6

>
As you follow the winding path downhill to rejoin
New Wall Street, you find your way blocked by one
of the robed southern warriors. Ona leash he has a
strange animal: it looks something like a low-bellied
trackine dog, but it has a white, hairless, distended
body, sharp talons on all four paws, and a face that
looks distressingly human — except for the elon-
gated nose that terminates in a snuffling, trumpet-
shaped orifice. With a guttural cry, the swordsman
draws his weapon and releases the creature, which
howls and races towards you. You will have to fight
it and, if you win, you will then have to fight the
swordsman.

SKILL STAMENA
SNUFF HOUND 5 4
SOUTHERN
SWORDSMAN 6 5

If you defeat them bath, you continue into the
centre of town. Turn to 108.

6
The door opens easily to reveal a luxurious cham-
ber; and the voices from within it cease immedi-
ately. You step through the doorway, scanning the
tapestnes, carpets and upholstered couches that fill
the room. You see, first, a foul and bloated creature
sitting on the floor like a mound of damp rags. Its
any eves, almost lost in folds of flesh, stare back at
you. It looks peculiarly obscene in these pleasant
surroundings. Then you notice that at one end of
7-8

the room two serving-maidens are gazing at you in
open-mouthed astonishment. And you see that the
room has one other exit: a door alongside the one
through which you have just entered. Will you
-. move towards the creature to attack it (turn to 76), or
move towards the women to question them (turn to
38)?

7

A flight of stone steps leads downwards just inside
the daorway- The first few steps are illuminated by
the red giow from the passage, and far below you
can make out the bottom of the stairway, dimly lit by
a blue radiance spilling through a doorway. Most of
the stairway is in complete darkness, and you de-
scend carefully. Halfway down, at the darkest
point, you halt in mid-stride: a voice is addressing
you, ‘Halt, stranger! State the name of my master or
do not dare ta approach me!’ You cannot detect the
source of the voice, If you decide to say nothing and
continue to iptoe down the steps, turn to 379. IFyou
reply, write down the name you choose to call out
and turn to 77-

§
You are overcome with nausea as you survey the
bodies of the awful creatures. No wonder the
townspeople stay indoors at night! Atleast you now
have some idea of the savage and unnatural nature

of the evil afflicting Neuburg.

You may take a memento of vour victory, if you
want to. If you can bveroome your revulsion, you

9

may slice a suckered tentacle from one of the beasts’
mouths, and putitin your backpack. Don’t forget to
record if on your Adventure Sheet if you decide to do
this.

As you are wiping the blood off your sword, you
hearmore of the creatures in the distance. You don't
want to meet any more Blood-Lurchers tonight, so
you return to the inn as quickly as possible. Turn to
245.

You cannot tell how far below the surface you are,
but the total darkness and silence begin to oppress
you. You feel as though you are miles under the
ground. The passage seems interminable, but even-
tually you reach a junction: a stairway leads up-
wards, and the passage continues its winding
course on the same level. You are relieved to be able
to climb, and you take the stairs. They end at last ata
small wooden door. You open it and emerge inta a
wide corridor, illuminated by widely spaced cres-
sets. To your nght, the corridor is darker; to your left
itis well lit and has a number of doors leading from
it. You go left. Turn to 49.

10-11

1a

As you creep along the narrow ledge you watch the
glowing blob rising through the liquid. It fills the
cavern with weirdly rippling red light. It reaches the
surface, assumes humanoid shape, and then erupts
into a dripping, shining form, hovering above the
surface of the pool. The Vitrial Essence bares his
vulpine fangs, flexes his vast, claw-tipped hands,
and hisses: “Who dares disturb my centuries of
slumber?’ Without waiting for a reply, he attacks.
You must deduct 2 points of SKILL because of your
precarious position.

VITRIOL ESSENCE

If he mana ges to wound you, turn to 351. When you
have reduced him to 2 points of STAMINA, tum to
112.

SKILLS STAMINA 6

11
You continue to skirt the overgrown garden. Half-
way along this side, there are steps leading up toa
small door set into the high wall that surrounds the
garden. The steps are covered with a tangle of
thorny branches, and the door is barred and secured
with an enormous rusty padlock. You decide to
continue to the commer of the garden. There is no
tower at this corner; you can see that the path
continues to follow the wall alongside the garden at
least as faras the next corner, where thereis a tower-
Halfway between you and this next tower, a wide

12-13

staimvay ascends from the garden. You can either
walk as far as the staircase, and use it to leave the
garden (turn to 212); or you can continue past the
staircase and take a look at the tower (turn to 44).

12
You slice through the silvery filaments with ease —
but the tattered strands writhe towards one another
and knit together almostas fastas you can cut them.
The monstrous spider is beginning to take an in-
terest in your attempted destruction of her web, and
starts to pick her way towards you. You attack the
web with increasing frenzy, but you cannot cut it
fast enough. You glance at Senyakhaz. She has
discarded the black box; the surface of the mirrorisa
swirl of colours. She turns to you and snaps her
fingers — and the illusory cobweb and spider dis-
2ppear! She waves and steps through the mirror. As
you watch her escape you, the frame of the mirror
Degins to glow and lose its shape, Ifyou try to follow
her through the mirror, turn to 363. If you decide to
leave the room, turn to 169.

13

You assume that the brass tube must be a weapon,
although it is nothing but a hollow cylinder. En-
graved near one end is a mysterious symbal. You
Gecide to hold the tube at arm’s length and try to
make it do something, Do you hold it by the end
with the engraved symbol (turn ta 234) or the other
end (turn to 176)?
1g—15

14

The old Goblin —for by now you are fairly sure that’s
what he is — takes your money, inspects it by the
light of the candle, bites each coin in turn, and then
throws the coins over his shoulder to add to the
heaps of debris. He hands you the broken fork, and
you can see that it is the head of a weapon — a
three-pronged spear of blue metal, with vicious
barbs and intricate inscriptions overlaid with co-
pious amounts of rust.

‘Even cleaned up it won't be of much use without its
shaft,’ the Goblin tells you. ‘But if you can find its
handle it should make a prodigiously powerful
weapon against those southern scum and their
horrible pets. I’ve kept that spear-head since before
most of the buildings in this town were built. I was
told it was broken in the battle fought on Castle Hill
itself, before there even was a Neuburg or a Keep.
The Southerners were defeated and fled. The
legends say that their unnatural allies were swal-
lowed up by the ground on which they stood, and
that the spear-shaft went with them. They were
mortally afraid of that spear, the stories say.”

You put the spear-head in your backpack and make
your way to the market-square, still wondering
whether you have wasted vour money. Turn to 237.

45
You cannot scramble fast enough; your kicks are
badly placed and fail to deter whatever foul creature
is engulfing your legs. Oozing steadily along the
16-17

tunnel, the slimy thing overtakes you. By the timeit
has surrounded your chest, your feet are deep
within its body and are already disintegrating as
powerful digestive acids do their work. There can be
no escape.

16

At the foot of the staircase is an open doorway
through which you can see inio a small chamber.
The blue light that fills the room emanates from
within an open-topped stone sarcophagus that lies
in the middle of the floor. As you approach you see
that there is a skeleton in the open tomb; across its
ribs rests a length of blue metal, intricately wrought
with bulbous protuberances and strange engrav-
ings. It is from this that the pale light pulses. Ifyou
decide to snatch it from the coffin, turn to 52. If you
think it would be prudent to dismember the
skeleton first, turn to 337.

17

Fighting back your revulsion, you put your hands to
your head and begin to batter and tug at the proto-
plasmic blob. You can feel its cold, sticky mouths
attempting to anchor themselves in your skin, but
you keep your hands moying and you discover that
the monster has surprisingly little resilience. It soon
drops to the ground, where you hack it into tiny
pieces with your sword. When you look inside your
backpack you find that the Kiss of Death Protuplasm
has devoured fvo portions of your rations, but that
everything else is unharmed, Turn to 139.

18-19

18

You are hoping that the intense light of the Talisman
will cause the green globe to glow and heat up so
rapidly that it inflicts serious damage on Xakhaz.
Your first task is to lodge the globe somewhere in
the nest of wriggling limbs. You pull it from your
backpack and carefully toss it towards the writhing
mountain. Even as it flies across the room, the globe
seems to absorb light from the Talisman’‘s dazzling
ray, and becomes too bright to lookat. Roll two dice.
if the total is more than your current SkKILt (exclud-
img bonuses for special weapons), turn to 313-
Otherwise, turn to 134.

19

if you now have less than 6 points of WILLPOWER,
your powerlessness before the excruciating torture
of the Vitriol Essence’s cruel claws is the final blow
+o your fragile sanity. The horrors of Neuburg have
overwhelmed you. You crouch at the side of the
pool, writhing and whimpering, while the grinning
Vitriol Essence finishes you off at his leisure.

you still have 6 or more points of WILLPOWER,
you abandon yourself to the pain only temporarily.
Sut you are still helpless to defend yourself when
the Vitriol Essence attacks again- Returm to 230.

20—22

20
You stand transfixed as the dripping tentacles en-
Grele your legs. You are pulled gently into the pool
towards the beak-like lips of the submerging trea-
ture. You almost recover your senses when you fee]
simy liquid filling your mouth — but by this time
your fate is sealed.

21

You follow the path up the hill in a series of steep
hairpin bends. The renewed silence is unnerving.
Your ears strain to hear any sound. You tiptoe
around the next corner — and meet a rampaging
pack of gruesome animals. They are the most abnor-
mal creatures you have ever seen. It is in some
respects a blessing that it is dark and that you have
so little time to notice their bulbous, hairless bodies,
their prehensile paws with talons like daggers, their
low, eyeless heads, and their gaping mauths filled
with writhing tentacles. With renewed screaming,
they are upon you before you can raise your sword.
Your adventure is over. You have been shredded
and sucked dry by Blood-Lurchers.

22

Lam older than T look, my young friend, although
you may not think it possible,’ Huw tells you. ‘1
helped to build this temple, and [know why it was
built here and which evil forces it was intended to
contain. Many legends tell of the clashes of armies,
the slaughter and the sacrifice that took place when
the ancestors of these townsfolk drove the southern
23-24

hordes out. ‘he stories do not dwell on the unseen
side of that conflict: the struggle between the priests
of Oiden and Xakhaz, the accursed archmage of the
despicable gods of Zagoula.

‘Xakhaz was not destroyed, but his earthly form
3was sundered, and his spirit sealed deep beneath
the earth. This temple was constructed over one of
the entrances to those subterranean chambers;
Neuburg Keep was built to guard the other. The
seals beneath this building are still intact. But I
began to worry when Baron Tholdur announced his
intention to visit the infernal city of Zagoula- When
he returned with a retinue of southern soldiers l was
displeased; and when it became clear that leading
the soldiers was a mysterious wizard whom none in
Neuburg has yet seen, my fears were confirmed.
Xakhaz is stirring. He may already have material
form. | cannot guess what he will be like or what he
will do after so many centuries in limbo! Tum to
100,

23
As you step into the gloomy passage between the
towers, you catch sight of a movementat the edge of
your vision — but it is too late to react. You feel
surprisingly little pain as a sharp blade sinks into
your side.

You hear approaching voices in the kitchen. You
close the door and drag the massive body of the
dead Orc into the storeroom. You wait behind the

25

curtain, but hear nothing- After a while you emerge
again. You can re-open the door to the kitchen and
walk in (turn to 172); you can set off along the
corridor (turn to 267); or you can look at the contents
of the fray which the Gnome abandoned (tum to
384).

25
You strike a flint, light the wick of one of the many
oil lanterns in the storeroom, and by the flickering
ight you cautiously descend the steep and narrow
stairs. At the bottom, a passage, roughly hewn in
the solid rock, leads away into darkness. It is cold
and dank; water drips on to you as you cteep
forward. At irregular intervals shafts pierce the root
of the tunnel, providing a little illumination. The
shafts are too long and sheer to climb, and you see
metal grating across the distant ends. You are fairly
sure that the passage is taking you beneath the
castle’s inner bailey, towards the Keep. The stairs
are out of sight behind you and the tunnel dis-
appears into darkness ahead of you. There is a
wooden door blocking 2 side-tunnel to your right.
The door is held shut by two massive wooden
wedges that have been hammered between it and
the surrounding rock. Do you want to try to remove
the wedges and enter the side-tunnel? If so, turn to
388. If you would rather press on along the main
passage, turn to 248.

26-28

26
You are perched on a very narrow ledge. You are
badly wounded and writhing in agony. It is not
surprising that you lose your footing and splash into
the pool. It is acid. For a few seconds it feels as
though you are in the heart of a furnace. Your body
disintegrates as it sinks through the liquid.

27

The dazzling radiance from the Talisman floods
over the warrior, but it seems ta have no effect on
him. Far from recoiling in shock, he advances,
swinging his broadsword. You leave the Talisman
exposed — at least its light helps you to see — and
prepare for combat. If you have the Trident of
Skarlos, turn to 378. If not, turn to 241.

28
A few paces to the right of the door and the draw-
bridge a narrow ledge juts from the stonework of
the Keep and continues until it forms an cave overa
small open window. Trying not to look down into
the ravine, you stretch across the gap and gain a
toehold on the ledge. Clinging by your fingertips to
rough edges of stone blocks, you inch along the
ledge. Above the window you let yourself fall, catch

29

the ledge, and swing through the window. Easy!
You are ina small, dusty room. Toyourrightisalow
door, which is securely closed with a stout bar
actoss it. If you remove the bar and go through the
door, turn to 262. Alternatively, there is a door in
the wall opposite the window, IF you go through it,
turn to £02.

29

‘My name is Cernic,’ the young man stammers. ‘1
am a priest of Oiden from his temple in Neuburg. I
came here secretly to explore, but I found southern
soldiers everywhere, and worse in the depths, I
could not risk the Talisman of Loth falling into the
hands of Xakhaz, so I found a safe haven — this
wretched dungeon — and have been praying for a
warrior mightier than I to relieve me of the burden
of carrying this responsibility. [f you intend to des-
troy Xakhaz, this will be of help.’

He lifts the shining disc, on a leather thong, from
about his neck and places it around yours. With
some misgivings, you conceal it beneath your tunic.
The young man is very nervous and plainly anxious
to escape now that he ‘has given away the Talisman.
Will you let him go, and then follow him through
the open door out of this dungeon hallway? If so,

um to 376. If you decide to restrain him and de-
mand more information, turn to 150.
S yids 2

30

Overwhelmed by the horrors you haye encountered
since your arrival in Neuburg, you cannot retain
your precarious grip on sanity. You are in a grim
stone cellar, but your mind is elsewhere, listening to
bird-song in a sunlit meadow. You are hardly aware
of the arrival of a troop of guards; you scarcely
notice your incarceration in a dungeon cell. There
ate plenty of terrible experiences still in store for you
in the short time before your death—but you will not
even notice them.

31
The battlemented walkway ends at a door which
leads into the first floor of another square tower.

.

{

You open the door cautiously, but there is no one in ©

the tower. There are two other doors on this floor-

you assume that the one opposite you will lead toa ©

continuation of the battlements atop the mner de-
fensive wall; the door on your left is more interest-

ing, as it should lead towards the Keep. You peer —

down the steps and see that there is an exit from the
sround floor of the tower; you calculate that it
should give access to the outer bailey. You have to
choose between the first-floor door which may take
you to the Keep (turn to 360) or the ground-floor

door syhich might let you into the outer bailey (turn ©

to 157}.

32703

32

You stroll northwards along Bridge Street until the
old stone bridge and the misty fields beyond the
nverarein sight. In this part of town, atleast, things
seem normal enough. All the shopkeepers have
Orought their wares out on to the street, which is
reverberating with cries of ‘Fresh fruit!’ and ‘Salted
sea-fish? and “Cunios from the mystic South!’ and
‘Swords sharpened here!’ — among scores of others.
Crowds of townsfolk are bustling among the mer-
chants’ stalls and trving to shelter from the drizzle
Deneath the brightly colaured awnings. You decide
to retrace your steps in order to buy some provisions
and, as you mingle with the throng outside a
seneral grocery shop, you suddenly feel that you
are being watched or followed. Test your Luck. If you
re Lucky, turn to 390. If you are Unlucky, tur to
371. '

33

cas brought you to your senses. Turn to 67.
34-36

34
The dazzling crystal pops out of its niche and im-
mediately stops glowing. A second later all the
other lights are extinguished and you have no
choice but to continue your descent in darkness.
Turn to 379.

35
Halfway through guzzling his meal, the Ore begins
to eat more slowly. Then he rises to his feet with a
look of utter confusion on his bestial features. His
body convulses, he hurls the spoon along the corri-
dor and he collapses like a felled tree. He is dead.
You find a key on a ring at his waist. It fits the lock of
the small door. You open it and step through. Tum

to 374.

36
The globe is almost too hot to touch, but you man-
age to fumble it into your backpack. You can feel its
heat through the canvas and leather, but it seems to
be diminishing in power. Before long you cannot
feel it at all, and you continue on your way towards
the next camer of the garden. Turn to 44.

37

7

Fighting back yourrevulsion, you put your hands to
your head and begin to batter and tug at the proto-
plasmic blob. You can feel its cold, sticky mouths
attempting to anchor themselves in your skin, but
you keep your hands moving and you discover that
the monster has surprisingly little resilience. It saon
drops to the ground, where you hack it into tiny
pieces with your sword. When you look inside your
backpack you find that the Kiss of Death Protoplasm
has devoured two portions of your rations, but that
everything else is unharmed. Turn to 132.

38-40

38

As soon as you step towards them, the young
women clutch each other, scream and run to the
nght-hand door, which opens as they approach. A
flash of light fills the raom and you are momentarily
Dlinded. You blink, look up and see, not two, but
three serving-sirls skipping towards you. ‘They are
aimost identical. They smile, curtsy and break into
2 complicated dance, all the time humming a haunt-
ing melody, tinkling tiny bells and trailing gauzy
silks, Their nimble steps and lithe gestures are quite
breathtaking. Test your Willpower. If you are success-
ral, turn to 198. If not, turn to 246.

39
A woman's voice shouts orders to the few remain-

ing guards, and you hear the sounds of pursuit
Dehind you. You race along corridors, completely
lost, and shudder to a halt only a finger’s length
from the broad back of a robed sentry. He is facing
the Keep’s main door, and he has not seen or heard
you. There 1s the entrance to a narrow corridor on
your left. You tiptoe into it and along the corridor.
You ignore a small door on your right. You keep
zomg down the corridor until the shouts of your
pursuers have faded. You allow yourself a selt-
congratulatory grin. You got away- Turn to 87.

40
Although the corridor is deserted, it is now well lit
oy flaming cressets and there are doors on both
sides. From behind some of the doors you hear the
40

voices of southern soldiers, and you tiptoe past.
Others are silent, but the few you try to open are
locked. Yau come toa door which has a key protrud-
ing from the keyhole. You turn it and open the door.
The room is a large prison cell, equipped with
shackles and chains and other instniments of res-
traint, and in its centre is a heavy bench with leather
straps and buckles nailed to its comers and edges.
Your attention is fixed on the captives, however: a
young man and a young woman dressed in rags,

weighed down with chains, and secured to iron ©

rings in the wall by the horrific headgear that each of
them wears. They are muzzled, and their heads are
almost completely enclosed in tight bands of leather
and metal. They stare at you, but can make no
sound. Will you release first the man (turn to 276) or
the woman (turn to 118)?

+

41-42

41

The door shudders from the impact of your shoul-
der, and splinters fly as you wield your sword — but
you are unable to force your way out. After many
exhausting attempts, you are vathering your
strength for a renewed onslaught when you hear
approaching footsteps. Your captors are returning.
You will have to fight them all, but you can improve
your chances by attacking as they appear in the
doomvay. You can fight them one ata time.

You flatten yourself against the wall as you hear
atavy bars being lifted. The door opens, and you
sunch yourself at the first of six swordsmen.

SKILL STAMINA
fist SWORDSMAN 5 5
Second SWORDSMAN 6 4
Third SWORDSMAN 4 6
Fourth SWORDSMAN 5 5
matth swORDSMAN 4 3
Sxth SWORDSMAN 4 8

<= you manage to kill them all, go to 315. If your
STAMINA falls to 2 or less, the southern warriors
ke advantage of your weakness and beat you into
snconsciousness. Turn t 266,

42
‘ou move the rod towards ‘Z’ and watch the mirror,
—oudy shapes form in the glass, and within
s=conds the mirror’s frame contains a swirling mass
colours. You walk up toit, take a deep breath and

==? into the rainbow maelstrom. Turn to 110.
43-44

43
Moving as quickly as you dare, you edge along the
right-hand side of the pool. You keep your back to
the wall and your eyes on the slowly rising glow-
When you teach the comer, you have to spend
some time turning around, and you shuffle along
the back wall facing the uneven rock. Halfway
along, you are obliged to waste more valuabic

seconds finding outcrops to cling toas you reach up ©

to collect the keys. By the time you have returned to
the entrance to the cavern, the Vitriol Essence is
erupting out of the liquid. He stretches his grossly
elongated arms towards you, but he cannot move
beyond the pool and you are out of his reach. He
hows in fury as you leave. Turn to 273.

You have reached another tower in a corner of the
garden. To your left the path continues along the
surrounding wall and passes a wide staircase that
ascends from the garden. The wall of the square
tower in front of you is windowless, but there is a
small wooden door at the base. The door is shghily
ajar, and there is darkness beyond. If you would like
to enter the tower through the door, turn to 394. If
you would rather walk to the staircase and use it to
leave the parden, turn to 212.

45

The elderly Dwarf studies your face, nods, raises a
gnarled finger to his lips and indicates the sentry
with a quick movement of his eyes. ‘Follow me,
then,’ he croaks. ‘This way, if you please. That's
night, that’s it, past this southern slowcoach, and
now you're behind him, so if you turn quickly . . .
That's right, exactly: that’s the way it’s done.’ The
old Dwarf clearly enjoys your skilful attack on the
sentry. You have a hand clamped over his face and
your sword driven into his back; he is quiet but far
fom dead. The Dwarf produces a long knife and
calmly forces it into the sentry’s chest. “Thank you!"
you tell him—but he has already tumed away and is
walking off into the shadows, pointing towards a
narrow corridor leading away from the hallway; you
decide to follow his advice and the corridor. ‘Turn

to 87.

46-47

46
Tearing through the thin walls are the zombified
corpses of unnatural mutants. There are three of
them, and they would have looked horrific even
when alive: they resemble gigantic upright frogs,
with short, muscularlegs, long spindly arms which
terminate in huge splay-fingered hands, and enor-
mously wide, flat, bulging-eyed heads. Their thick,
black, prehensile tongues flicker from their gaping
mouths. Dead, yet moving, they present an unbear-
able sight. Rotten flesh drops from them as they
advance towards you. They smell of everything that
ts noxious about stagnant water. They are Chrabats,
unfortunate creations of evil sorcery, and they are
getting very close. Test your Willpower. lf you are
successful, turn to194- If you are unsuccessful, furn

to 269.

47

You walk up to the forbidding entrance. The old
man remains motionless, propped on his staff, until
you are only a few paces away. Then he opens
sparkling blue eves and snaps at you: ‘l am Huw,
last priest of Oiden in this town. Hurry inside, my
mend, for enemies are approaching.’ He turns
sharply and beckons you to follow him into the
depths of the gloomy min. His voice sounds fam-
Uiar, but you cannot quite recall when and where
you have heard it before. If you want to follow him,
turn to 398. If you would rather return to the centre
of town, furn to 5.
48-50

48
You land, stumble, teeter on the edge of a limitless
gulf, and then throw yourself io the safety of the
corridor floor. You rise hurriedly when you feel the
floor moving beneath you, but the huge slab you are
on is merely grinding back into position to cover the
hole. You walk back to the fork in the corridor and
decide to explore the nght-hand passage. Turn to

49
Sandwiched between two of the burliest of the

swordsmen, and surrounded by a squad of others,
you have no chance to escape as you are frog-
marched out of the cellar, up a flight of stairs,
through the gloom of the servants’ quarters, and
into the opulent private chambers of the Margrave
of Neuburg Keep. Your guards halt at a pair of
grand carved doors, an which the leader raps loud-
ly. When the doors have been opened, he bows and
announces in a barbaric accent: “May it please the
Margrave, a foreign spy captured within the castle
walls! 4 swordsman shoves you from behind and
the entire troop marches in to present you to Baron
Tholdur. Tum to 127.

50
The young man stands over you, mumbling and
hopping from foot ta foot, while you release the
woman. She, too, has a swollen face, but she man-
ages to smile at you. The man looks wormed and
tries to hold her, but she pushes him aside and

51

advances towards you. The young man cowers ina
corner and you back away nervously as the
woman's smile becomes a grin, and then a yawn,
and then her mouth opens wider still —and not one
Sut a hundred writhing tongues spill from between
her impossibly wide jaws. Test your Willpower. Ifyou
are successful, turn to 321. If not, turn to 223-

52
The door at the top of the stairs is apparently bolted
or barred on the other side. It is also very battered
2nd splintered — you conclude that the Ogre you
have just dealt with has made a sustained attempt to
Sreak through it with its club. You can think of only
three options:

Shoulder-charge the door until it
gives way

Inspect it closely to find a way to
open it

Yell: T’ve just killed the Ogre. Let me
inf

Turn to 173
Turn to 325

Turn to 235

52-54

52

You pick up the misshapen shaft of blue metal. It is
surprisingly light, as if itis hollow, and despite its
unusual shape it fits snugly into your hand. One
end of the shaft terminates in a screw thread, so itis
clear that whatever it is, it is incomplete. Do you
have a three-pointed spear-head? If so, turn to 251.
If not, turn to 309.

53

You step out of the mirror into Senyakhaz’s cham-
ber. It is exactly as you left ita couple of seconds ago.
Your trip through the magic portal has proved
inconclusive, but you are still convinced thatitis the
key to the terrible mystery of Neuburg Keep. You
can move the rad on the black box to *X’ and try the
mirror again (turn to 288), or you can smash the box
open (turn to 382).

54
You are in the large circular chamber, looking up at
the strange tree. Itis completely leafless, but you are
sure it is alive. lts sinewy white limbs have a
ghostly luminosity. “Climb!” Huw tells you.

You cannot see the top of the tree. It seems to
disappear into shadows near the domed ceiling.
You clamber up the branches until you can no
longer see the room below, but still you are nowhere
near the top. A strong, bitter wind clutches at you;
you cling on as white mists swirl all around. Higher:
your body feels fatigue and increasing pain; in-

55-56

human voices clamour in your head. Grimly, you
continue to climb, with all your senses assaulted. It
feels as though your mind and body are being torn
apart. You lose consciousness.

Add together your WILLPOWER and STAMINA. Roll
one die eight times. If the total of your die rolls is less
than your combined WILLPOWER and STAMINA,
turn te 298. Otherwise, turn to 219-

55
There is an iron ring set into the centre of the door,

but no amount of twisting it, or pushing or pulling,
will open the door. If you have the head of a
three-pointed spear, you can try to use one of the
prongs to pick the lock {turn to 147); otherwise, you
will have to give up and try one of the doors at the
other end of the passage — either the huge metal one
(turn to 243) or the small wooden one (turn to 373).

56
You are very lucky indeed- The two mutated crea-
tures were the victims of a disease magically created
by the sorcerer Xakhaz. The disease is infectious,
but vou have not been infected. Turn to 228,

57-59

: |
The coin plops inte the green liquid and disappears
beneath the surface. Nothing happens. Feeling
rather foolish, you make a wish. Still nothing hap-
pens. If you want to put your hand into the liquid to
try to retrieve your Gold Piece, tum to 168. If you
want to drink some of the liquid, turn to 380.
Alternatively, yau can investigate the overgrown
path beyond the statue (turn to 232}, or you can
return to the edge of the garden and continue along
the perimeter path (turn to 11).

55
You steel yourself to attack again. Will you cutdown
the dancing-girl on the left (turn to 328) or the one
on the right (turn to 208)?

‘The cellar contains little excep! for the straw on the
floor and several broken boxes. You search forsome
time; you find no secret doors and no weapons. You
are still on your hands and knees sorting through
the straw when you hear the sound of approaching
footsteps.

Six rabed figures march down the steps; they are
amused to find you untied, and enjoy chasing you
around the cellar. You havena weapon and, inspite
of all your struggles, you are doomed to lose this
unequal fight. The swordsmen want to capture rou
alive, it seems, and they bludgeon you into uncon:
sciousness. Turn to 266.

60—62

60
You fall for what seems like minutes, until you land
on a stone floor and break a lot of bones. Through
red clouds of pain you can just make out three
shapes shuffling towards you. They are ghouls, and
they are coming to eat you. There is no escape.

61
You step out of the empty air and suffer a short but
ungainly fall on to a flat-topped boulder. You are on
2 barren rocky plateau under a wide leaden sky. A
cold wind whips around you. Apart from tufts of
coarse grass, there is no sign of life. You have no
idea where you are, although after several days of
walking you will find a primitive Half-Orc village
where you will discover that you are lost in the
Wastes of Chaos. Neuburg is three weeks’ hard
Tavel away. No doubt you will find your way back
there, but for now your adventure ends here,

62
You are in an outer bailey of the castle. It is a
marrow, dirt-floored courtyard sandwiched be-
Sween the curtain wall on your left and an even
higher defensive wall on your right. Anyone stand-
=s on either set of battlements could hardly fail to
63

spot you crouching by the barred door, but the
walls, towers and the hailey itself are deserted. You
decide that this is as good a place as any to take a
short rest before investigating the rows of wooden
boxes that line the bailey walls. You unstrap your
backpack to take stock of its contents. Do you havea
piece of Blood-Lurcher tentacle in your pack? If so,
turn to 277. If not, turn to 139.

63
You gaze down at the body of the girl, wondering at
the delicacy of her features and the horribly con-
trasting armour. She seemed almost grateful as you
struck the fatal blow, You feel troubled and de-
pressed.

If you survive your adventure you will discover thal
the girl was Baron Tholdur’s adopted daughter, and
that the wearing of the enchanted armour was a
subtly cruel torment inflicted on her by the
Zasoulan wizard. The new's of your deed, although
you did it unknowingly, will plunge the Margrave
into despair, and cast a shadow over all your brave
exploits. Lose 2 points of Luck, and wander discon-
sulately from the room. If you have not already done
50, you can now unlock the opposite door (turn to
g6) or leave the dungeon area through the open
door (turn to 376}.

64-65

if you are a prisoner, all dungeons are the same. The
pits beneath Neuburg Keep are no exception. You
sre in a cramped, damp, filthy, airless hole, and the
Sttul torchlight that sometimes creeps between the
cracks in the metal-studded dooris so weak that you
can barely make out the shapes of the fat rats that
scurTy among the dirty straw on the floor.

you have any food with you, you can eat a portion
now. If you hayea green glass globe, you can extract
= from your backpack (turn to 117), or you can take
Out the trident head (turn to 362). If you have
neither of these items, or do not wish to look at
them, you will just have to sit morosely in your cell

entil something happens. Turn to 206.

Smears of slime left by the retreating creature irritate
=xposed areas of your skin as you progress down-
wards. The tunnel is now very wide — you cannot
reach the other side of it with your outstretched
sword — and you are sure that all the holes in the
Surface above lead into this one great shaft. The
Sfficulty now is preventing yourself from slicing or
talline forwards, as the tunnel is almost vertical.
You see the pale light ahead of you again, and soon
you are clinging precariously to an outcrop of rock at
che end of the tunnel. You are dangling from the
ceiling of a low cavern and looking down into a poul
of green luminescence that covers nearly all of the
Soor. There isa ledge jutting out over the surface of
66-67

the slime. You will have to try to jump on to it. Roll
iyo dice. If the total is less than your SKILL, turn to
316. Otherwise, turn to 124.

66
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, tum to 297. If you
are Unlucky, turn to 162.

67
Fighting back your revulsion, you put your hands to
your head and begin to batter and tug at the proto-
plasmic blob. You can feel its cold, sticky mouths
attempting to anchor themselves in your skin, but
you keep your hands moving and you discover that
the monster has surprisingly little resilience. It soon
drops to the ground, where you hack it into tiny
pieces with your sword. When you look inside your
backpack you find that the Kiss of Death Pratoplasm
has devoured two portions of your rations, but that
everything else is unharmed. Tum to1 36.

68-70

68

itis asif you are the only living ceaturein Neuburg.
With your sword in your hand, you are ready to
react to the slightest sound — but now the silence is
2bsolute. There are no lights in the houses. A pale
moon shines occasionally between racing clouds.
You are beginning to relax a little when you hear
something: footsteps! Not a man —a beast. A large
dog, perhaps. More than one!

You pull yourself into the porch of the nearest
house. Not a moment too soon: one of the animals
has sensed your presence and jumps at yout out of
the darkness. You have no time to think; your
sword is ready and you fight, Turn to 253.

69

The dying Orc begins to slump to the ground. His
Settle-axe slips from his fingers, and you notice that
nis other hand is about to release its hold on the
cope. If you want to try to grab hold of the rope
before the Orc lets go, turn to 189. If you would
rather ignore the rope and search the Ore’s bady,
turn 10 138.

7o
Defiantly, you hold the glittering ring hich in the air
tor all to see. “Here, Tholdur! Here is the ring you
entrusted to me? you shout exultantly. ‘A warrior
never had a truer companion than you have in mel!’
The entire assembly holds its breath. The Mar-
grave’s strange vizier seems to be dumbfounded.
71

Barun Tholdur himself has risen to his feet, full of
new vitality. He strides towards you and, oblivious
to everything else, insists that you recount all your
adventures since he last met you. The guards slink
away, and you realize that the doors are open and
that you can easily make your escape — but you are
no longer sure that escape is necessary, now that
Baron Tholdur is restored to his normal self. If vou
want to make a run for it, turn to 39. Lf you are
content ta stay with the Margrave, turn to 247.

71
As you charge towards the guards, they look up in
alarm. One steps forward to intercept you, while
the other hurries back to the double doors and
pounds them noisily. You are able to tackle them
one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
Tirst SOUTTTERN
GUARD 9 10
Secand SOUTIHIERN
GLARD § 12

If you have the Talisman of Loth, youcan revealit as
you approach your opponents: each of them will
lose 2 points of sxrit. If you kill the guards, you
find yourself standing outside the clased double
doors. Allis quiet, Turn to 391.

74-75

The door is too heavy; you cannot close it. The
swordsmen charge up to the vast doorway, and you
make your stand in the gap between the doors.
Only one soldier at a time can attack you, and you
put up a magnificent struggle. But there are multi-
tudes of the robed warriors, and although youslay a
prodigious number of them and create a hillock of
corpses on which you stand and fight, they even-
tually come at you from both sides. The end is
inevitable.

You lose 2 points of sramina because of loss of
blood, but the clammy touch of the creature’s sucker
has brought you to your senses, Turn to 17.

74
The cunning old Dwarf has decided that you are

Skely to lose this fight - and he does not want
anyone to be able to accuse him of shirking his
responsibility t protect his master. He joins in to
help the sentry. Behind you, he pulls a long knife
fom his belt and plunges it into your body. You are
sorely wounded and have no chance of survival
2gainst two opponents. Your adventure ends here.

75
THIEF! bellows a voice from inside the shop. Ina

rage, the burly shopkeeper charges into the sircet,
orandishing an axe. lf you want to runaway, tum to
364. Lf you would rather stay and fight the enraged
erocer, furn to 186.
76-77
76

The flabby mound is a Vlodblad, a creation of evil
sorcery. It is very sluggish, hence its low Initial
SKILL; however, a5 you move towards it, you see
that itis beginning to generate blobs of flesh all over
ts body, and that some of these are extending into
soneless limbs. It will continue to do this until you
«all it. During any combat round in which you do
not wound it, its SKILL will increase by 2 points as it
produces more limbs to attack you.

VLODBLAD SKILL 3 STAMINA 10

shortly after you begin this fight, you notice that the
seTying-girls have left the room. If you want to try to
follow them you can Escape (unless you have the
Runic Axe) after one combat round (turn to 323). If
you stay and defeat the Vlodblad, tum to 260.

i the name you shouted was ‘Oiden‘, turn to 356. If
mwas “Makhaz’, turn to 258. If it was Tholdur’, or
any other name, tum to 379.

78-Bo

The riverside diwwellers scatter in panic as you
squelch across the muddy road and charge on to the
jetty. The soldiers discard their whips and draw
their curved blades. You realize that you cannot
hope to defeat them all simultaneously, and you
choose to make your stand on a narrow plank that
projects from one side of the jetty. The soldiers can
attack you only one at a time; but you cannot escape
unless you kill them all.

SKILL STAMINA
First SWORDSMAN 6 8
Secand SWORDSMAN 5 6
Third SWORDSMAN 5 9
Fourth SWORDSMAN $ 7

If you win, you can investigate the one crate that ts
left on the jetty (turn to 259), or you can return to the
centre of town and explore a different part ol
Neuburg (turn to 377)-

79 x
Test your Luck. lf youare Lucky, turn to 56. If youare
Unlucky, turn to 163.

Bo
Itis very hard work removinga flagstone, and when
you have finally heaved it out of position, you are
disappointed to find that underneath it are rocks
and packed earth. You persevere, however, and
find that the next few flags are easier to litt. And
under the fourth you find a gaping hole, 2 rough

81-82

downward shaft that is just large enough for yau to
Squeeze through. If you want to descend into the
carkness, turn to 264. Otherwise, you can replace
the flagstones and waitin your cell for something to
happen (turn to 206).

81

A banquet awaits you beyond the open double
doors. Walking into the room is like entering a tent:
the walls are covered with soft billowing sheets of
material that are gathered together in the middle of
she ceiling, where a mass of multicoloured ribbons
tusties. Thick ropes trail from the ceiling. In the
middle of all this, an ornate table is covered with
Suits and sweetmeats. The perfumed breeze carries
Sts of gentle music. There is otherwise no sound.
it you decide to inspect the food on the table, turn to
225. Alternatively, you can still decide to go back to
che wall of flame (turn to 145).

82
4 spark of animation remains in the eyes of the
anfortunate Tree-Man. Its branches reach towards
you with much rustling of leaves, You listen in-
tently; there seems to be a message in the scraping
owigs. ltis: ‘The gardener is in the tower behind me,
Seware the other two towers.”

=mis information is whispered over and over again,
end gets increasingly indistinct. You decide to move
em, but itis clear that the path beyond the Tree-Man
= completely blocked. You tum back and rejoin the
penimeter path. Turn to 12.
83-84

83

The globe does not break when it hits the floor. It
continues to produce a ferocious glare and a heat
that you can feel from the other side of the room.
Xakhaz, pursuing you, shuffles away from ita little,
but is still clase when it explodes. The stunning
crash stings your ears and sends you flying back-
wards across a table. You lose 3 points of STAMINA.
As you pull yourself to your feet, you are appalled to
see that Xakhaz has survived. Half of his moun-
tainous body has been obliterated, but he still has
some limbs and tentacles that work. He limps to-
wards you, dragging a stump of mangled flesh and
leaving a trail of blood andichor. Turn to 167 to fight
him, but reduce his sra MINA to 10 and his sKiL1 to
g because of his wounds.

You select a barre], turn its tap and fill the cup vith
rich ruby liquid. ft is a fortified wine of excellent
vintage, and you enjoy every drop. It restores up to
2 paints of STAMINA, if necessary; but it also con-
tains a considerable arnount of alcohol which dulls
your senses and slows your reflexes. Reduce your
SKILL by 2 points until you next eat 2 porton of
food. Turn to 286.

85-86

As your eyes become accustomed to the deep gloom
you see that your visitor is a slight young man in
sulitary clothing. He is clearly not a Southerner,
however, and your answer seems to interest him.
Shield your eyes!'*he warns, and pulls aside his
cunic. A ray of brilliant white light bursts from
something on his chest. It is not too dazzling if you
avoid looking directly at it. The youth beckons you
to follow him out of the cell. ‘Turn to 29.

86

You lunge at the old priest — and fall flat on your
face, screaming with pain. The wooden legs of the
heavy stool on which you were seated have grown
aound your ankles, which have been horribly
owisted as you fell. You are powerless ta move.
Huw stands oyer you. ‘Wretched fooll’ he says.
‘You are not worthy of the gifts of Oiden. You are

t even fit to live. I will leave you here. In time,
your body will feed the roots of the Great Tree.
Farewell.’ He leaves, locking the door behind him.
You lie on the floorin agony until you die.
the corridor tums to the left, and as you turn the
comer you hear voices ahead. You advance
cautiously, and find your way blocked by a jumble
of mops, brooms, buckets, boxes of rags, and other
household equipment, all of which is covered in
dust and cobwebs. You pick a path through it, and
realize that the passage hasled you into the back of a
storeroom. A tattered curtain hangs across the door-
way; you listen to the voices from the other side. An
argument is finishing. A harsh, guttural voice
States: ‘You'll do it because T tell you to do it! And if
you don’t Pll boil vow up for his stew tomorrow!’ A
door slams. You peek round the curtain and see a
small Gnome dressed in the uniform of a page
Standing ina corridor which ends ata large wooden
door. With some difficulty he is holding an enor-
mous tray with an carthenware pot on it, and he
looks completely forlom. Tears trickle down his
cheeks. You can attack him (tum to 3612}, ask him
why he is so miserable (turn to 326), or ignore him
and set off along the corridor away from the door
Turn to 267).

85
est your Lick. If you are Lucky, tum to 161. If you
re Untucky, turn to 370.

8&9
arms over your face, you push through the silvery
Slaments. You feel them clinging to your skin, and
Men they disappear. You kk around: the web
90

and the spider - both illusions — have gone, and
Senvakhaz has turned to face you. She is angry and
fearful, and pulls a long knife from the sleeve of her
robe. If you have the Talisman of Loth and want to
reveal it, turn to 357. Lf you decide to try to talk to the

sorceress, turn to 233. Lf you want to attack her ~

immediately, furn to 160.

90 -

As you walk along Fish Street towards the river, itis
obyious that you are entering the poorest quarter of
town. Here the river is no Jonger clear: it has spread
into an oozing marsh, and a stench pervades the
entire area. Only a few boats are tied up at the
rotting jetties. The riverside path, known as Shiver-
ing Lane, is ankle-deep in clinging mud, and the
pitifully decayed cottages seem to be settling into
the marshy ground. The few local people that you
see are small, swarthy types, and are dressed in
drab rags. There are no shops, and nobody is work
ing on the boats and barges.

A cart is approaching from the north-east. The two
horses are having difficulty pulling it over the
muddy, pitted surface of Shivering Lane. Asit nears
the wharves, you can see that it contains a continr
gent of robed warriors-

Do you wani to conceal yourself in this unpleasant
part of town in order to spy on the robed sword
men? If so, turn to 336. Or would you rather explore
an area of Neuburg that you have not yet visited!
You can go up Castle Hill to the Keep (turn to 259},

91-92

or into the Temple Quarter (turn to 195} or to the
Merchants* Quarter (turn to 32).

gi
if you have the Trident of Skarlos, turn to 378. If not,
turn to 247.

92

There is a metal gate in the wall at the end of the
courtyard. Through it you can see another, larger
courtyard with the path continuing through it to a
door in the wall at the farend. There is no one about,
0 you open the gate and set off along the path. You
soon notice that the ground is littered with animal
carcasses and bones. On both sides of the path holes
zape. Some of the holes are wide enough for a
human to squeeze into, and they all appear to
descend steeply into the earth. If you want to ex-
plore down one of the holes, turn to 244. If you pass
them by and go through the doorin the wall, turn to

457:

93-94

You lose 2 points of sramiNna because of loss of
blood, but the clammy touch of the creature's sucker
has brought you to your senses. Turn to 37-

94
You burst through the door and into the anteroom.
li is empty. There is another door in the opposite
wall, You hurl yourself through it, and fall into the
storeroam — which is empty except for boxes and
barrels. You roll upright and look around: there is
another door, next to the one through which you
just hurtled. Desperately, you lunge through it -
and find the inner sanctum, This is Senyakhaz's
bedroom, audience-chamber and workroom. As
you enter, the wizard, covered again in deep red
robes, picks up a small box, steps towards a tall
mirror, waves at you, walks into the mirror and
disappears. The frame of the mirror begins to glow
and lose its shape. If you try to follow the wizard
through the mirror, turn to 363. If you decide to
leave the room, furn to 169.

95

95

Hacking at brambles with your sword, you follow
the path around the hillside in the shadow of the
battlements. The path veers to the left and dis-
2ppears into a clump of bushes at the base of the
wall. You push aside the prickly branches and dis-
cover a small door, which you have some difficulty
m opening as there is just as much undergrowth on
the other side. You cut your way down a flight of
Stone steps, and find yourself in an untended kit-
chen garden. The vegetable patches, herb beds and
Suit trees are wildly out of control and it is impos-
sidle to see across the garden. You can make out that
the garden is square, is surrounded by walls, and
has the remains of a gravel path around its edge.
You are at the mid-point of one side. Will you tum
meht (turn to 175) or left (turn to 275)?

96-97

You unlock the door and push it open torevealnota
dismal cell but a well-furnished room. It is lit by
séveral lanterns and has an unpleasant smell. You
Sep inside, turn quickly, and find yourself facing
Gnitig, Baron Tholdur’s one-legzed Hobgoblin
=soler. Griltig has been kept prisoner in his own
quarters for several days and is in no mood to talk.
Se wants to kill someone. He snarls and hobbles
wards you with surprising agility, a spiked club
raised above his ugly head.

GRILTIG Sxiit § STAMINA 12

= you have the Talisman of Loth, you can reveal it
ater one round of combat. Its dazzling gleam will
reduce Griltig’s sri. by 2 points. Unless you haye
the Runic Axe, you can Escape after one round. You
See from the dungeon hallway through the open
soor. Turn to 376.

= you Kill Griltig, you can search his room (turn to

253); or cross the hallway and unlock the other door,

= you have not already done so (turn to 165); or

save this dungeon area through the open door
turn to 376).

97
The swarthy swordsmen watch with interest as you
mst your weapon and proffer your bribe. Their
der takes your offering, and insists on searching
pour backpack for more. He mockingly pretends to
%= very disappointed that you have nothing else of

f

=
98

value to him, and then suddenly orders his men to
seize you. You cannot reach your weapon in time,
and you are soon held fast in spite of your struggles.

The swordsmen are highly amused at your out —

raged expostulations. Turn to 49-
98

Unknown to everyone, the Margrave of Neuburg

Keep is worried about his expanding waistline anc
resorts to this potion when feeling particularly over-
weight. Its effect is to reduce the appetite; im fact, it

abolishes feelings of hunger and makes the sight

and smell of food repulsive. The effect wears off
aftera day or two—but for the rest of this adventure,
you will not be able to eat any provisions.

You descend the spiral staircase. The darkness is
oppressive and the circling seems endless. Even-
tually you crash into a door, push if open and
emerge dizzily into a dimly lit corridor. You walk
towards the brighter end. Turn to 40.

99-100

99
Within seconds you are surrounded by a merciless

mob of robed swordsmen. Your body is pierced
again and again by their curved blades. By the time
the swordsmen have finished with you, there isn’t
even very much left to feed to the strange animals
that are penned in the Keep’s outer baileys.

100

The old priest of Oiden continues his explanation:
‘lt Xakhaz is resurrected and restored to his ancient
powers, Neuburg and all its people will be helpless
defore his vengeful sorcery. I shudder to imagine
the terror and despair he will inflict! However, he
can be defeated and imprisoned again, especially
while he is still weak. His physical form can be
destroyed by the sword of a mighty wartior — such
25 you — and he and his minions can be weakened by
the Talisman of Loth. Unfortunately, the Talisman
S missing. A week ago | sent Cernic, my fellow
Driest, to explore the Keep. He has not returned,
2nd I cannot contact him — although | think he is still
2ive. You must go to the Keep, and try to find the
Tzlisman of Loth before you descend into the lower
caverns. Do not enter the castle by the main gate—it
= heavily guarded. There is a little-known side-
entrance that you will find if you torn to the right
Sefore you reach the main gate. | can give you no
More information; but if you wish to undertake the
Jrdeal. Oiden may yet bestow gitis upon you.’ If
you want to try the Ordeal, turm to 54- IF you would
sather geton with your quest, turn to 368.
101-103

101

You continue to exchange blows with the irate
shopkeeper. He is weakening, but reinforcements
are arriving to help him. From nearby shops and
stalls a motley collection of tradesmen come and
join in attacking you with much shouting and curs
ing.

You are sorely wounded by the time a squad of
soldiers arrives. It consists of six more of the
southern swordsmen, and while you lie on the
ground clutching at your wounds a furious argu
ment crupts between the soldiers and the towns-
people about who should have custody of you.
Eventually the townspeople have their way, anc
after a brief trial the same day you suffer the ignom-
nious execution of a common criminal. No doubt
your fate would have been even less pleasant if the
southern soldiers had got their hands on you.

102

The door opens on te a narrow cammidor. You reason
that to the left will be the main hallway of the Keep,
and soldiers and the likelihood of discovery. You
follow the corridor to the right. Turn to 87.

103
You start to ransack the gardener’s storcroom. Tes!
your Luck. Uf you are Lucky, turn to 327; if you are
Unlucky, barn to 202.

104-105

104

tour globe of green glass is getting painfully bright.
is also almost too hot to hold. You no longer need
45 a source of light, so you can retum it to your
Seckpack. If you do this, turn to 382. If you would
sSther put it down and stand over it to see what
®2ppens, turn to 329. Alternatively, you could place
=at one end of the passage and watch from the
ether; if you do this, you can choose to place it on
Se floor next to the large wooden door to your right
“urn to 221), or the small wooden door to your left
am to 158), or the massive metal door (turn to 123).

105
Tou have fallen into a very deep hole. You seem to
Si for ever, and as you tumble through the whist-
@e gulf you catch glimpses of the huge stone slab
Sewly grinding back into place across the ever-
Smunishing sliver of light far away above you. It
Suts, and you carry on plummeting in complete
Sarkness. You are about tolose consciousness when
You are smashed against the rock floor.

101-103

101
You continue to exchange blows with the irate
shopkeeper. He is weakening, but reinforcements
are arriving to help him. From nearby shops and
stalls a motley collection of tradesmen come and
join in attacking you with much shouting and curs-

You are sorely wounded by the time a squad of
soldiers arrives. It consists of six more of the
southern swordsmen, and while you lie on the
ground clutching at your wounds a furious argu-
ment erupts between the soldiers and the towns-
people about who should have custody of yau.
Eventually the townspeople have their way, and
after a brief trial the same day you suffer the ignomi-
nious execution of a common ciminai. No doubt
your fate would have been even fess pleasant if the
southern soldiers had got their hands on you.

102

The door opens on toa narrow corridor. You reason
that to the left will be the main hallway of the Keep,
and soldiers and the likelihood of discovery. You
follow the corridor to the nght. Turn to 87.

103

You start to ransack the gardener’s storeroom. Test
your Luck. If you are Lucky, furn te 327; if you are
Unlucky, turn to 202.

——, = Sore

= te

i ri
wus =e —s—
pal = o— - &.-Xe,
S “2 zx
—_—

104-105

104

Your globe of green glass is getting painfully bright.
itis also almost too hot to hold. You no longer need
es a source of light, so you can return it to your
backpack. If you do this, turn to 382. If you would
rather put it down and stand over it to see what
happens, furn to 329. Alternatively, you could place
= at one end of the passage and watch from the
other; if you do this, you can choose to place it on
the floornext to the large woaden door to your night
‘turn to 227), or the small wooden door to your Ictt
‘tum to 158), or the massive metal door {tum to 123).

105

You have fallen into a very deep hole. You scem to
Sil for ever, and as you tumble through the whist-
Eng gulf you catch glimpses of the huge stone slab
Slowly grinding back into place across the ever-
diminishing sliver of light far away above you. It
shuts, and you carry on plummeting in complete
Garkness- You are about tolose consciousness when
you are smashed against the rock floor.

106-107

106
You drop lighily to the cobblestones and pause.
listening for the slightest sound. All is quiet. You
draw your sword and head uphill, towards the
quarter of town where the backs of the houses are
set into the rock-face and their fronts seem to hang
over one another. Above them all, Neuburg Keep
looms like a brooding shadow, a patch of utter
blackness against the scudding clouds. You follow
the winding road upwards.

Your heartjumps, and you almost drop your sword.
A bubbling, screaming, baying noise splits the might
—and stops as suddenly as it began. Then you hearit
again — louder, nearer. And then there are several
of the awful voices, wailing simultaneously. The
source of this unnatural noise is ahead of you, and
seems to be approaching. Will you turn back t
explore the town (turn to 68) or press on towards the
castle (turn to 21)?

10}

Intrigued by the pale luminescence exuded by the
warrior, you inspect his still body. When you ex-

perimentally kick him through his surcoat, you fing
a strangely solid mass where his legs should be.
With a prowing sense of fear, you grasp his helmet.
You pull it off — and drop it in horror. He has no
head. Instead, there is a glistening, featureless,

rubbery protuberance which, as you watch, begins
to distend and ooze towards you. Test your Will-
power. Lf you are successful, you tear yourself away

108-110

Som the appalling sight and make for the open
Soorway (turn to 279). If you are unsuccessful, turn
= 257-

108
Having returned to the market-square, you can now
=xplore any part of Neuburg that you have not
2lready visited. Do you choose to make for:

the Merchants’ Quarter? Turn to 32

The riverside area? Turn to 90

Neuburg Keep? Turn to 289
10g

4s you near the bottom of the stainway, you can see
Sat one of the steps is different from all the others.
= is not carved out of the surrounding rock, but
om stone that gleams in the light of the glowing
systals. You avoid stepping on it and continue to
tre end of the stairs. Restore 1 point of Luck, if you
seed to, for evading a particularly unpleasant trap,
and then turn to 16.

110
You step into oppressive heat. Sweat trickles down
your body inside your armour as you inspect your
sew surroundings. The magical mirror has clearly
sates you along way from Neuburg. You are
the semi-darkness of a shuttered room, but
Recah the slats you can see harsh sunlight and
sear the bustling noises of a foreign city. ‘The mirror
S sill a whirlpool of colours, but there is nu black
111

cube in evidence. If you decide ta step back into the”
mirror, turn to 307. If you want to leave this room to
explore the city, turn to 220.

111

The metal joint screeches as you tug at the statue's

arm, and then you hear mechanical dicks and
whirrs from within the metal Elf maiden. Her

mouth opens and a squeaky yoice recites a rhyme in

an incomprehensible language; the urn swivels un-

til the neck is downwards, and then a trickle of
green liquid flows from it into the stone basin. The

stream of liquid ceases when the basin is almost full

and the statue closes its mouth and raises its arm.

The mechanism has stopped working. You lower

your face to the basin. The green liquid has no

odour; it is thick and opaque, but is a very fresh-

looking colour.

If you want to put your lips to the liquid and drink.
turn to 380. If you have a Gold Piece and would like
to throw it into the basin, turn to 57 (remember to
deduct it from your Adventure Sheet). lf you want to
put your hand in the liquid, turn to 168. If you
would rather leave the statue, you can attempt lo
continue along the overgrown path (hurn to 232) or
return to the perimeter path (turn to 13)-

.

112-114

112

Raging, snarling, and flicking drops of liquid fom
his claws, the Vitriol Essence sinks below the sur-
face of the pool. You watch as his luminosity de-
scends fo the depths; the cavern returns to deep
gloom. You can now sidle around the perimeter of
the pool and collect the sets of keys (turn to 345); or
you can return to your dungeon cell {turn to 206).

713

‘Oy, you! Halt! yells the Orc, his voice reverberat-
mg along the passage. ‘Come no further and state
your business!’ One of his thick hands closes
around the haft of a battle-axe, while the other
reaches for a rope that hangs through a hole in the
ceiling. You fear that the rope may be attached to an
alarm signal, and you charge at the Ore—butevenas
you attack he pulls the rope taut. No alarm sounds,
however. The Orc holds on tightly to the rope as
you fight.

ORC GUARD
if you win, turn to 69-

SKILLg STAMINA 13

aig
Soon there is only one crate left on the jetty, but the
ragged labourers are unwilling to touch it. Eyen the
cart-horses shy away from it. No matter how bru-
tally the southern soldiers wield their whips, they
cannot persuade the riverside folk to load the crate
on the barge. In fact, the labourers look increasingly
temmfied, and eventually, under a rain of vicious
445

blows, they take to their heels and flee. The soldiers
2re nonplussed. They talk to one another briefly,
and then climb into the cart and drive it away,
weaving the solitary crate on the jetty. You wait for
several more minutes, but no one appears and no
sound breaks the silence.

if you want to emerge from hiding and look at the
crate, turn to 259. Lf you would rather slink back to
the centre of town and explore a different part of
Neuburg, turn to 377.

115
You have found the inner sanctum of the Zagoulan
wizard who has enchanted Baron Tholdur and
called up unspeakable horrors from the depths be-
tow Neuburg Keep. The wizard is standing at the far
end of the large room, and the thrown-back cow! of
she deep red robe reveals the features of a regally
cesutiful young wornan. Sheis standing in front of a
tall mirror, staring at her reflection as she manipu-
sates a small black box. She turns to face you and
speaks: “You haye found me, then. No matter. am
senyakhaz of Zagoula; I will escape from you now,
and return to finish my work here at a more prapi-
Sous time. Passing years mean little to me. Take
sare! Beware of my little pet!’ You suddenly realize
thata massive cobweb spans the room. Squatting in
=, near the ceiling, is a spider as large as a horse. Do
you walk into the web, in the hope that you can
force your way through? Lf so, turn to &. If you
would rather cuta w ay through with your weapon,
cum to 12.
116

116

You shove at the door until it opens enough to let
you squeeze through. You have barely had time to
notice that the door had been barricaded with rakes,
hoes, and chests full of smaller garden tools, when
you are attacked by an axe-wielding Dwarf. You
cannot back out through the narrow gap in the
doorway — this will be a fight to the finish.

DWARF

If you defeat him, a look at his body tells you that
although very proficient with his axe, your oppo-
nent was quite old and frail- You are surprised to see
that his hands and forearms are stained bright
green! He must have been the gardener, to judge by
the contents of this large and dusty chamber:
gardening tools, sacks of produce, bundles of dried
herbs, and young shoots in pots are tidily arranged
on shelyes and benches. There is another door in
the far wall.

‘This room looks interesting, but so does the rune-
inscribed axe clutched in the Dwarf’s lifeless
fingers. If you want to explare the room, turn to 268.
If you want the axe, turn to 341-

SkitL 8 STAMINA 4

4117-118

117

The globe emanates a soft green glow. It provides
snough light for you to be able to inspect your
surroundings. The walls are all made of titanic
Slocks of stone, cut by a mason who knew his trade
well: there is not so much as a single crevice be-
oween the blocks. Once you have kicked aside the
mouldy straw, however, you see that the floar
might be vulnerable to an escape attempt. The
Sagstones are ill-fitting and it might be possible to
pnse some of them up. If you want to try to do this,
turn to 80. IF you would rather wait in the cell until
something happens, turn to 206.

118

You close the door, find a set of keys on a peg
Sehind it, and set to work unlocking locks and
anbuckling buckles. Soon the young woman is free
& her chains and of the confining headgear. Not
Surprisingly, her faceis swollen, but she manages to
smile as she turns to face you. The smile widens toa
zin, and then turns into a yawn, and then her
=outh opens wider still—and not one buta hundred
writhing tongues emerge. Test your Willpower. Lf you
are successful, turn to 321. Lf not, turn to 223.

1197120

119
As you head west to the market-square, you notice
that the few householders you can see are hastily
barring their doors and shuttering their windows.
When you reach the Southern Star tavern, =
appears to be closed. Pounding on the boards with

the pommel of your sword brings the innkeeper to

the door. It is easy to rent a room, as there are no
other guests. You eat a solitary meal by the ight of=
candle in the gloom of the inn‘s shuttered common
room. Recover up to 4 points of STAMINA, if you
have lost any so far.

You decide to ask the innkeeper what is going on in
Neuburg, You have to choose whether you will
reveal your past association with Baron Tholdur
(turn to 164), or whether you will keep this informe-
tion to yourself (turn to 301).

120
You pick up the mace. It is short and surprisingly
light. The sharp silver spikes are alive with some
form of energy, but you feel that the weapon's lack
of both reach and weight would put you at a dis-
advantage in a fight against someone armed with 2
sword or a battle-axe. If you nevertheless want to
dispose of your current weapon and keep the mace,
turn to 333. Otherwise, return to 190 and make é
different choice. baat

121-122

i241

Sill smiling in death, the girl sinks to the floar-
Stricken with remorse, you stare down at the
corpse. You raise your eyes to meet those of the
remaining two dancers; they smile radiantly, and
begin to dance again. Your weariness amazes you;
you gaze at the dancing young women. fest your
Wilpaver. If you are successful, turn to 58. If not,
turn to 246.

122

Thrusting your sword at random into various piles
of rotten vegetable matter, you are rewarded with
an assortment of interesting finds: a mouldy turnip,
2 broken earthenware pot and a dead sapling. But
you are intrigued to find that in one particular heap
your sword meets no resistance. No matter how far
you push inte the sodden mass, you seem unable to
touch the floor. Puzzled, you start to move the
compost to one side, and soon you reveal a large
hole in the ground. Itlooks as if one of the flagstones
has broken and fallen through into a space below
the floor. You can just make out the cubical shape of
the subterranean room; it is a littered with dust and
compost, and thereis a small, green, plowing shape
in one of the far corners. You decide to investigate,
so vou lower yourself through the rectangular open-
ing. Turn to 317-

123-125

123
You place the incandescent globe in front of the
great metal doorand back away. Within seconds the
sphere is too brisht to look at, and you can feel its
heat fram the far end of the passage. Then it ex-
plodes. ‘I'he roar is unbearably loud, and the shock-
wave hurls you against the rock wall. When your
head clears and the dust begins to settle, you sce
that the vast metal plates are blackened and
buckled. You approach the door, wait a while for
the metal to cool and, after much sinew-wrenching
effort, manage to topple it towards you. You leap
aside, prip your weapon and advance through the
doorway. Turn to 190.

124
The ledge is covered in thick grease, and you are too
near its edge. Your fingers can gain no purchase,
You tumble into the bottomless vat of Protoplasmic
Slime, which rapidly gets to work digesting you
with its acidic fluids.

125
Uf you still have 6 or more points of WILLPOWER,
turn to 303. If you have less than 6 points, turn to

270.

126

126
You are standing over the corpse of the first swords-
man when the second comes into sight, pauses and
then charges at you.
SOUTHERN
SWORDSMAN

if you are using the Talisman of Loth, his skit.1. is
reduced by 2 points.

i you kill him, you can think of no better plan than
to dress yourself in the flowing white robes of one of
your slam adversaries and then attempt to bluff
your way past the guards in front of the closed
double doors at the end of the right-hand branch of
the corridor. Moments later, looking far more con-
ident than you feel, you march towards the two
guards.

To your surprise, they leave their post as soon as
they see you approaching. They pass you with the
merest grunt of greeting, apparently in a hurry to
return to their barracks now that someone has
turned up to relieve them. You are glad you had the
forethought to conceal the carnage in the corridor.
They disappear from view, leaving you in posses-
sion of the guard-post outside the closed double
doors. You have to choose whether you will knack
on the doors (turn to 391) or try to sneak through
them secretly (turn to 213).

SKIL£ 11 STAMINA
|

———e

127

127
When you were last in Tholdur’s Great Hall, as his
nonoured comrade-in-atms, you marvelled at the
austere magnificence of the vast stone-pillared
chamber. It seemed to reflect the Margrave’s grand
znd ngorously martial personality. Now you are his
pnsoner, and everything seems to have changed.
Sumptuous tapestries cover the walls, and the floor
= littered with rugs and cushions. Ranks of impas-
sive swordsmen stand on guard, while their cap-
Sins and Neuburg merchants are waited on and
entertained by lithe maidens in gauzy silks. Some of
she young women are dark-haired beauties from the
south; others, wearing chains between ankles and
wrists, are from the Neuburg area. Tholdur himself
Ssprawled ona grandiose gilt throne, a gobict in his
sand and a faraway look in his eyes. Seated next to
Sim on the dais is a small figure in a dark red cloak
with a cowl that conceals its face. This figure whis-
pers in Tholdur’s ear as you approach, Will you
cemaim silent while Baron Tholdur dispenses sum-
mary justice and decides vour fate? [fso, turn to 392.
= you want to identify yourself and appeal to the
Margrave’s memories of your past exploits to-
eether, turn to 261.

P fo be Kan . A a = ee ¥
7 ; , c

128—129

128

The young woman has no weapon; the tendmils-
reaching out of her gaping throat must be for eating

with. You try not to think about if, and attack This
should be an easy fight.

MUTATED WOMAN
If you win, your only thought is to get out of the

SKILL 4 STAMINA 7

room. Atleast you now know why the two creatures:
were chained and muzzled. You close the door

behind you, and re-lock it. Turn to 79.

129
With much gesturing, the little old being invites you
into a tumbledown lean-to hovel behind his stall

Inside the windowless shack, you can hardiy move”
for bric-a-brac: nasty sveapons, broken furniture and |

cracked pots take up virtually all the available space.
Pausing only to light a candle, the stall-holder be-
gins to rummage with surprising energy in a partr
cularly cluttered corner. With a triumphant cry he
pulls something from beneath a pile of rags and
brings it towards you. lt looks like a small garden
fork! Ltis very rusty and it has no handle. You begin
to wonder whether the old stall-holderis demented.
You are even more woried when he demands 3
Gould Pieces for it.

If you want to pay him, deduct 3 Gold Pieces from
your Adveniure Sheet and tim to 14. If you want to
waste no more time on this transaction, you leave
the hut and continue towards the market-square
{turn to 237).

- 130-132

130

The mysterious voice implores you to move so that
your bonds can be cut, but you remain motionless.
=yentually, you hear: ‘Imust go now- Itis near dark,
2nd I fear for my life. They will returm soon and take
you. May Oiden be with you, stranger.’

A hittle later you hear footsteps approaching. Rough
hands pick you up, carry you up some stairs and
throw you into what seems te bea cart. Almostas an
afterthought, your captors club you into uncon-
Scousness. Turn to 266.

131
Suried in one face of the cubical box is a small metal
rod. Etched above and below it are two letters: ’Z’
and *X’. The rod can be moved formvards and back-
wards. You decide to experiment. Will you push the
rod towards ‘Z’ (turn to 42) or towards “X’ (turn to
288)?

434
* you have any rations, you can eat one meal now,
Remember to deduct it from your Adzenfure Sheet
2nd to restore up ta 4 points of STAMINA, if you
have lost any.

i you havea globe of green glass you notice that tt is
snll glowing dimly, and thatit begins to shine more
onightly when vou remove it from the depths of
your pack. You pul itaway again quickly.

Feeling somewhat refreshed, you shoulder your

pack and set off alone the svell-used track that hugs
the rocky base of the black Keep. As you circle the
133-134

monumental structure, the track becomes 4 ramp.
climbing through the boulder-strewn foundation
rock towards a gatehouse tower perched across @

deep ravine. Once through the forbidding gate

house archway, you find the poricullis raised and

the drawbridge over the chasm lowered. There are”

no guards in sight, and you are now at the mam

doorway into the Keep — at Baron Tholdur’s front
door. Will you hammer on the enormous door ang
demand entrance (turn to 311)? Or will you look for”

a way lo break in surreptitiously (turn to 28)?

+33

You place the floppy white object over your heac

and experience a moment of panic as you feel some
thing like cold jelly moulding itself to your scalp.
Your fear is soon submerged in a welter of alien

images; you feel your own personality sinking in =
morass of memories. Your head is filled with images
from aeons past and from otherworldly places. Your
emotions are superseded by totally nhuman d=
sires and needs. You are the latest in a long line &

hosts for a Brain Defiler; you will spend the rest of

your days skulking in dark places, a slave to its:

whims, the instrument of its unnatural purposes.

134
You have thrown well: the globe thuds into Xakhaz
near the top of the motley pyramid of flesh, anc
disappears among a tangle of thrashing limbs
Almost immediately it explodes. An ear-numbing
crash signals the end of Xakhaz. Tur to271.

135-136

435

You recoil with a cry, just as the questing fingers ofa
Secaying hand are about to touch your face, With
Senic speed you snatch up the crate’s lid and slam it
sown over the squirming mass. Sobbing, you use
your bere hands to hammer at the nails, until you
ere sure that the lid is secure. You collapse on the
tty and try to recover your scattered sits.

Seme time later you stride grimly inte the centre
of town, determined to seek out the source of
Neuburg’s hormble afflictions. Turn to 377.

136
you have any rations, you can eat one meal now.
Semember to deduct it from your Adventure Sheet

amd to restore up to 4 points of STAMINA, if you
Seve lost any.

Syou have a globe of green glass, you notice that it

= still glowing dimly, and that it begins to shine

more brightly when you remove it from the depths

af your pack. You put it away again quickly.

As you walk about the room you begin to regret that

you killed the Dwarf gardener, You have no way of
S>owing whether any of the plants or dried herbs
are useful or harmful, or whether there is anything
ot value hidden in the room. If you want to spend

“ame ona thorough search, turn to 103. IFyou would

esther cross the room and leave through the far
Soor, turn to 282-
137 138-139

Which part of Neuburg do you want to explore? If
you go north, to the Merchants’ Quarter, turn to 32.
E you go east. to the Temple Quarter, turn to 195. If
you go west, towards the wharves and warchouses
st the riverside, turn to go.

137
There is no market today. The square is empty.
except for a few grim-faced townspeople who
scurry across the cobbles. You spot a notice-boaard
nailed to a post between the stocks and a horse
trough; you walk over to it and find that, among
proclamations about the permitted prices for meat
pies, there is a tattered map flapping in the wind. I
is a plan of the town:

138
The rope jerks upwards and disappears through the
Sole in the ceiling. You hear the grate of bolts sliding

across the other side of the door, and you realize
ss Be aaa. aes — 5 oa Rf that the rope was part of a defence mechanism that
a ee ey) Be oars the way through the door if the guard is killed.
- eon Yat ay = You tum and find that the rope alsa operated a trap:
oe Oe 1 oo eg FS three poricullises have descended across the corri-
Sees x SEES SE/= aie ey we dor. It is possible that a week or so of chipping at
S Bee Be a a ee eee OS a ae masonry would allow you to escape; but you will
ere Ac [FS5] EN SS almost certainly be discovered and executed before
Sky se ee ee you succeed. In any event, your adventure is over,
ee a fH faa Sey HS) looms eB ; ‘ fe
EE) cee nN ae ae
Salant oO” ee =e = 5o° = - cra: ° 439
——— oes Sa i you have any rations, you can eat one meal naw.
pA ® Vs LBATSLE coat Ay ee Remember to deduct it from your Adventire Sheet
Aw and to restore up to 4 points of STAMINA, if you
AS Neabure iecp have lost any.
B East Gale Then you shoulder your pack and set off on the
C Market Square beaten path that runs along the centre of the long,
3 ears rales Bridge Stee narrow courtyard. You walk between two rows of
F ‘Temple quarler =rg= wooden boxes, and as you pass each box you

hear 2 frantic scrabbling noise from inside. Lf you
went to fry to open one of the boxes, turn t> 306. If
you would rather ignore them and continue to the
end wall of the courtyard, turn to 92.
140

140
The anteroom is deserted. There is a door in the

opposite wall, through which you find the
storeroom — also deserted. The storeroom has

another door, which you are about to open when

you hear an explosion from the other side. When
the sounds of falling debris cease, you look into the
room. lt has been comprehensively wrecked. You

find no other exits from this suite of rooms, nor do-

you find any way of reaching the lower levels from
the corridors on this level. You return to the
dungeons and cellars and find the southem soldiers
milling around in confusion. In his private apart-
ments, Baron Tholdur is awakening from his en-
chantment. Together, after questioning guards and
servants, you manage to work out that your activi-
ties have frightened away Senyakhaz, the Zagoulan
sorceress who bewitched the Margrave. She has
escaped through the magic portal which she used to
reach the insane and aeons-old warlock Xakhaz.
trapped in the depths below Neuburg Keep. She
destrayed the portal as she fled.

The Margrave and the people of Neuburg are
sratcful to you, but you know you have failed.
Senyakhaz has escaped and can still reach Xakhaz,
who remains brooding beneath the Keep, gathering
strength for his revenge. For Neuburg and its
people, the day of reckoning has merely been post-
poned,

1g1—142

1
Remember to deduct 1 Sant of WILLPOWER from
your Adventure Sheet. lf you still have 6 or more
pomts of WILL POWER Temaining, tum to 339- If you
nave less than 6 points, turn to 20.

142
One of your flailing hands instinctively hooks itself
over the step below the one that gave way. You
Stretch your legs but can find no purchase; you
sense that you are hanging above a vastchasm, You
oreathe deeply, trying not to panic in the darkness.
With preat deliberation you reach up to push your
weapon on to a secure step. You now have two
hands to support your weight. You concentrate:
Dlock out the pain, contract the muscles. Inch by
mch, you pull yourself up.

When your limbs have stopped shaking, you con-
inue down the , hardly daring t rest on any

one of them. You reach the end without further
incdent. Turn to 16.

143-144

143
Sentries are often appuinted as such because of the

brawn and combat experience. This one is no excep-
tion, The old Dwarf will be no help to you in this
fighi—he stands aside as you close with the soldier.

SOUTHERN
SWORDSMAN

if at any time during the fight you have 6 or more
points of STAMINA less than the soldier, turn to 74
You can Escape at any time after the first combat
round. You flee along a narrow corridor and are
relieved to find that the swordsman does not com
sider you worth pursuing {turn to 87). lf you stay
and win, turn to 369.

SKILL STAMINA 1

144
You have been crouched in 2 crevice bebween

clammy boulders for quite some time, and you are

getting cold and stiff. The old man has not moved.
You are beginning to realize that concealing your-
self in this pile of rocks was a waste of time, when
you hear noises from behind you, back down the
path. You extricate yourself from among the boul-
ders and head cautiously downhill.

You follow the path away from the ruined temple
for several minutes, and then come face to face with
one of the southem warriors and a strange animal
that he is holding on a leash. The animal looks
something like a low-bellied tracking dog, but it has
a white, hairless, distended body, sharp talons on

all four paws, and a face that looks distressingly —

145

Suman — except for the elongated nose that termi-
sates in a snuffling, trumpet-shaped orifice. On
seeing you, the swordsman utters a guttural cry,
draws his weapon and releases the unpleasant
Seast. It howls and races towards you. You have to
Sghtit and. if you win, you will then have to fight
she swordsman.

SKILL STAMINA
SNUFF HOUND 5 4
SOUTHERN
SWORDSMAN 6 5

= you kill them both, you hurry back to the temple
*0 see the old man. Turn to 263.

145
The soaring wall of fire continues ta bum with
andiminished vigour. If you want lo try to jump
through it, take a long run at it and tum to 231. IE
you would rather &y to approach the inferna
Slowly, turn to 352-

146-147

146
You look into the passage from which the creature
emetved and see thal it branches; the mam pat
continues downwards, but a small tunnel, almos
blocked with rubble, leads upwards and to the left
Will you take the main passage (turn to 9) or the
side-tunnel (turn Lo 296)?

147
The truncated trident almost crackles with energy 5
you insert one of its points into the keyhole. To your

surprise, the lock begins to twist and sag, fuming

molten even though there is no source of heat. You
push against the door and it opens a little. Replacng
the head of the trident in your backpack, you grip
your weapon and walk through the doonvay. Tum
to 7.

148-149

148

You step out of empty air and into the branch of a
conifer. You fall to the ground in a shower of pine
needles. You areina forest ona hillside; through the
trees you glimpse the waters of a lake, You have no
idea where you are, but you orient yourself by the
sun and head south. In several days‘ time you will
reach the port of Arion, where you will discover that
the magic portal has transported you across the
entire width of the continent of Khul. The journey to
Neuburg will be long and difficult. The sea passage
fom Arion to Kelther alone will take weeks ~if you
are lucky enough to find a vessel that will take you.
No doubt your expedition will have its share of
imcidents and mayhem; but this adventure ends
here.

149
You return to the grocery stall and survey the array

of cold meat pies and small loaves of crusty bread
temptingly displayed in the open air. A single Gold
Piece will buy enough for three meals; or, if you are
feeling desperate or daring, you might be able to
Sich enough for one meal while no one is looking. If
you want to buy three meals, turn to 383. If you try
to steal one, turn to 229.

if you would rather leave the Merchants’ Quarter of
Neuburg, you can go to any part of the town you
have not already visited. You could either make
your way down to the river (turn to go), walk across
town to the Temple Quarter (turn to 195}, or go up
Castle Hill to Neuburg Keep (tum to 289).
152

We'll need some of this dried herb here, it’s known
2s Wolfwell; and then this root, ground to a powder
— it’s Orcsbane, but we won't use very much; and
tom this jar a few Mountainsweet flowers, dried in
Se smoke of Honeytongue wood. Pound it all
teecther, and there you have it. It’s best taken as an
fusion, and followed by a good night's sleep; but
you'd better try to eatit dry. It won't taste good, but
=should do the trick.’

And, sure enough, although you choke on the
powdery mixture, it has a definite effect. You feel
warmed — as if the sun had suddenly broken
through the clouds. You stretch your limbs and
Sugh with joy. You can restore up to 2 points of lost
WILLPOWER. The Dwarf has more information for
you. Turn to 396.

150-151

150
Cernicis close to panic, butanswers your questions
‘The Talisman of Loth is Oiden‘s gift,” he explains.
‘Tt was both a curse and a blessing for Loth, a leader
of our people before we became Reld-ploughers ang
town-dwellers. His skill in battle was equalled be
his pride and self-love, and he set up images o&
himself for worship. Oiden’s Talisman made hic
stranger yet in combat — its light befuddles enemies
especially suich Hellspawn as infest this castle — but
at the cast of Loth’s favoured pastime. Never lookin”
a mirror while you wear the Talisman — it wil
destroy you,

‘The Margrave is under the spell of a wizard from
Zagoula who is restoring life to what remains of the
sorcerer Xakhaz. This wizard wears red robes ang
inhabits guarded chambers at the end of the corm
dor below this dungeon. Xakhaz is alive now, but
still sealed in the deeper levels of these tunnels; the
only way to reach him is through the wizard’s
chambers."

Cernic pulls away from you and scampers through
the open door out of the dungeon hallway. After =
few minutes, you follow. Turn to 376-

152

As easily as walking through a door, you step out of
she waiting-toom and on to the crenellated roof of
she Keep. Your enjoyment of the panoramic views
and bracing wind is spoilt by the fact that you are
mside an iron cage. It resists all your efforts to
Scape. After you have been on the roof for several
says, a soldier pops up through a trapdoor, sees
you, disappears again, and returns later with a
Soop of swordsmen. You are taken away and soon
atterwards executed as a spy.

1
‘l thought you svere looking a bit peaky,” says the
Dwarf, ‘although I’m not surprised atanyone being
shallive say, a bil more nervy than usual, what with
al] these strange beasties on the prowland suchlike
I'll put something together that'll soon sort you out

153-155

153
Brushing away crushed spiders, you look for the
green glabe. lt did not break when you dropped it,
but it is now glowing very brightly and is getting
brighter by the minute. It is radiating increasingly
intense heat. Will you:

Walk away from it? Tum te 330
Put itinto your backpack? Turn to 36

Stay close to it io see what happens? furn t 178

154

You are screaming uncontrollably. The pain is m-
supportable. You see nothing but the leering fea-
tures of the Vitriol Essence. He is toying with you;
choosing his moment to lacerate you again with his
dreadful daws. You cannot find the will to fight
him. Did you slip or did you jump? The result ts the
same. The pool is acid: for a few seconds it feels as
though you are in the heart of a furnace, and then
your lifeless body disintegrates as it sinks to the
bottom.

155
This corridor has many natural recesses in its rock
walls, You are able to get quite dose to the guards
outside the double doors by flitting from cover to
cover, However, you are unable to gain much more
information. The guards look bored and impatient,
bul reasonably alert, and you have no way of telling
whether there are more soldiers beyond the doors.

156

It would be impossible to rush the guards and
dispose of them befure they could raise the alarm.
You can think of only four courses of action.

if you decide to emerge from hiding and charge the
two guardsmen, turn to 71- If you want to march up
to them, claim to be acting on instructions from the
Margrave, and order them to leave their post, turn
to 346- If you prefer to slip away back to the entrance
to this cormidor and await developments, turn to
293. If you want to leave this corridor and instead
explore the left-hand passage, turn to 252.

156
The second group of young ruffians moves in to
attack you. Fight them as you did the first group.

SKILL STAMINA
Fourth MURDEROUS
URCHIN 5 4
Fifth MURDEROUS
URCHIN 4 ’
Sixth MURDEROUS
URCHIN 5 6

if you win, you search the bodies, and find they had
only 3 Gold Pieces between them. Record this booty
on your Adventure Sheet.

Sbnormuailly large rats are gathering in the shadows.

Some of the heaps of fetid muck scem to be moving
of their own accord. You think it is time to leave.
Turn ta 149-
157-158

157

You open the door and find the blade of a curved
sword inches from your nose. You duck and crouch
mstinctively, ready to fight, but the hiss of many
swords leaving their scabbards deters you. You
have no choice but to surrender — you have walked
nto the section of the outer bailey that houses the
hordes of southern warriors. They remove all your
possessions and clothes, lock you into an iron cell,
and provide you with decent rations. Each evening
they bring you out to play a game called ‘Stone-
crop’: you are pegyed spreadeagled on the ground
at the foot of one of the towers, and two swords-
men, chosen by lot, have one chance each to dropa
doulder from the top of the tower on to your head.
All the soldiers in the barracks come to watch, and
much excitement is generated. Gold Pieces change
mands at a furious rate as wagers are laid on which
man will drop his boulder nearer to your head, and

n how many days it will be before one of the drops
accurate enough to crush your skull. Eventually,
one of them is, and does.

158
Tou place the incandescent globe in front of the little
wooden door and back away- Within seconds the
sphere is too bright to look at and you can feel its
mest from the far end of the passage. Then il ex-
piodes. The roaris unbearably loud, and the shack-
sve hurls you against the rock wall, When your
pad clears and the dust begins to settle, you see
mat the little wooden door has been completely
159-160

pulverized. You walk towards the open doorway
and, gripping your weapon, you walk through it.
Turn to 255.

159

You race across the courtyard and dive through the
gap between the enormous double doors. You are in
a quiet inner bailey, with the solid shape of the Keep
itself looming in front of you. Your pursuers are
right behind you, but the double doors can be
barred from this side with beams the size of tree-
trunks - if you can close the open door in ime. You
put your shoulder to the door and push.

Add together your sxitt and sTAMINA- Roll one
die eight times. If the total is less than your com-
bined SKILL and STAMINA, turn lo 308; otherwise,
turn to 72,

160
The illusionist Senyakhaz is an accomplished knife-
fichter.

SEN YAKHAZ

If you defeat her, you have earned the thanks of the
Margrave and the people of Neuburg. The beautiful
Zagoulan had enthralled Baron Tholdur and was
the leader of the southern soldiery. However, you
have still to discover and destroy the source of the
evil and unnatural creatures that plague the town.
The tall, metal-framed mirror seemed important to

SKILL STAMINA S

161

Senyakhaz; so did the small black box that you now
prise from her lifeless fingers. It is hollow and
rattles, but is sealed. If you smash it open, turn to
331. If you inspect its surfaces, turn to 131.

162

Evading the clutching hands of your guards, you
fee into the dark tunnel. Within seconds you are
round a corner and in complete blackness. You
collide with a rock wall, stumble over a boulder and
collapse to the ground in a daze. You recover as the
Srst of your pursuers approaches, holding aloft a
faring torch. He fails fo see you, and as your blade
slices into his leg he howls with pain, drops the
torch, and prepares for combat.
SOUTHERN

SWORDSMAN STAMINA 4
i you kill him within 6vo Attack Rounds, you can
run off along the tunnel, but without the benefit of
the torch, which has burnt out (turn to 370). If you
are still fighting after two Attack Rounds, turn to

SKILL 6

162-163

162

You slide down the muddy slope and you are
unable to prevent yourself slipping straight into the
murky pool. Thigh-deep in stagnant water, you are
horrified to feel your legs being clasped by muscular
tendrils. You draw your sward and prepare to fight
the mottled creature that is surfacing in front of you.
‘Turn to 183.

163
You really are very unlucky indeed. The two m=
tated creatures were the victims of a disease mage
cally created by the sorcerer Xakhaz. The disease
infectious, and you have been infected. Before you

reach the end of the corridor your neck will begin

swell and tv hurt abominably. Even at this stage yor
will have a suspicion of the truth. You will fall into2
fever from which, if someone finds and tends you.
you will recaver. But you will have changed. You
will be confused, violent, less than human, ané
abhorred by anyone you meet. An unpleasant fate
for such a promising adventurer,

164

‘You know Baron Tholdur! Any friend of aur Mar-
=ave ts welcome here. You must try 2 glass of our
very special Neuburg brandy! No? Perhaps you
Rave experienced it before . . . But wait!’ ‘The inn-
s=eper looks at you sharply. ‘How can I be sure you
=e not trying to trick me? You sa¥ you were at Helm
hil, but that battle is common knowledge. Can you
prove you know Baron Tholdur?’

concealed in your belt you keep a bejewelled gold
ong inscribed with a comradely message from the
Margrave. It would prove that vou know him—butit
= immensely valuable and would tempt all but the
most honest of men. If you want to show it to the
mnkeeper, turn to 343. If you would rather drop
the subject of Baron Tholdur, turn to 301.

165-167

165

You unlock the door and push it open. The roam
sevond has been furnished sumptuously, but you
see immediately that all the brocade hangings and
sik bed-covers have been tom to ribbons. Even the
polished wood surfaces of the furniture are gouged
with deep scratches. The only occupant of the room
52 young girl whois watching you intently. She has
jong golden hair, and is wearing about her neck an
mon ring which is attached by a long chain to a
Similar ring set into the stone wall. She is also
wearing the strangest suit of armour you have ever
seen. The breastplate, and the plates covering her
shoulders, forearms and shins, are bristling with
needie-sharp spikes. As you watch, she flexes her
eauntlets and curved, claw-like blades emerge at
the ends of her fingers. Her eyes fill with tears and
she attacks. If you are wearing ear-plugs, turn to
318; if not, turn to 187.

166
You select a barrel and turn its tap, filling the cup
with clear, golden liquid. It has a spicy fragrance
and tastes delicious. Having drained the cup you
*eel considerably refreshed: restore up to 2 paints of
STAMINA, if vou need to, before turning to 286,

167
Nakhaz is a formidable opponent. He is so large that
ne can absorb more damage than any human being;
ana he can attack with many of his limbs simul-
neously. He carries no weapons, so his hands are
168

useful only for punching, grabbing and gouging

but he also has, among many variations, long

insect-like legs with razor-sharp edges, and trunk
like tentacles terminating in fang-filled mouths.

XAKHAZ
The Talisman of Loth, if you have it, has only

SKILL 14 STAMINA 32

limited effect on such a monster — it reduces

Xakhaz's skit by 1 point. If you have the Trident of

Skarlos, however, you find that it seems to revel in -

skewering the mountain of limbs—it causes an extra

5 points af STAMINA loss each ime you wound with»

it. 1f you succeed in killing Xakhaz, turn to 271

168
You dip one tentative finger into the green liquid. It
is cold, but quite refreshing. Nothing unpleasant
accurs. You submerge your swhole hand. You cen
feel nothing at all on the bottom of the basin, so you
pull your hand out again, lt is covered in a green
film. You wipe it against your jerkin —and you are
surprised to find that the green colour will not wip=
off. Within minutes your hand begins to itch, and
you are appalled to find that tiny plants appear to be
sprouting under your fingernails and between your
fingers. You have immersed your hand in concen-
trated magical fertilizer, and it is now a haven for
tiny airborne organisms. You must reduce your
SKILL by 1 point permanently because of the con-
stant irritation; but if you survive this adventure you
will find that you really do have “green fingers’ -
anything you plant will grow well. You may now

169-170

myvestigate the overgrown path beyond the statue
‘turn to 232), or return to the edge of the garden and
sollow the perimeter path (turn to 11}.

169

As you leave the room the mirror frame turns white-
Sot and explodes in molten blobs. Senyakhaz‘s
magic portal has been destroyed, and you are still
2hve to assess the situation. You must confess that
you have not been successful. The townspeople of
Neuburg will thank you, certainly: you have freed
eir Margrave from foreign influence, and no
doubt he will waste no time in expelling the
southern soldiers. And now that the portal is des-
Soyed, there is no route by which the appalling
creations of the mad sorcerer Xakhaz can be re-
leased to plague the surface world. But you know
that Senyakhaz is still alive and wel] —and possibly
sil] able to reach the unknown depths beneath
Neuburg Keep, where the evil, aeons-old sorcerer
=rows stronger, more insane and more determined
on revenge. You have failed in your mission: you
have merely postponed the day of reckoning for the
people of Neuburg.

170
The glowing passage extends for only twenty paces
or so in both directions from the point where your
side-tunnel joins it. To the right, the passage ends at
2 large door made of sturdy beams and reinforced
with iron bands. It has a metal panel with a keyhole,
and seems to be locked- To the left there are two
171-172

doors: one is small and wooden, while the other is
massive and made of riveted plates of solid metal.

The small door has a handle but no lock: the meta!

door has three huge keyholes, and looks like =

thicf’s nightmare. lf vou have a green globe, turn to
104. If you have a blue spear-head, turn to 207.

474
Two robed warriors, looking impassive and very
out of place, are slanding in a clear space on 2
nearby street comer —and they are staring straight
at you.

You turn to face them and stare back. After a few
moments, without a word to one another, they
abruptly walk off into an alley. Perplexed, you put
your hands on your hips — and realize that your
purse is missing. [he strings dangling from your
belt have been cleanly cut. There is no sign of the
thief. And now you have no money to buy provi-
sions — or anything else. Turn to 149-

1

Smoke from two open fires mingles with steam from
bubbling pots to create a swirling fog im the kitchen.
You blunder into a table, knock over a rack of
vegctables, and make enough commotion to attract
the attention of all the kitchen staff. The smoke
clears momentarily and you find yourself sur-
rounded by Orcs, Gnomes and swordsmen, armed
with a bewildering variety of weapons and kitchen
implements. ‘What a treat!’ enthuses one of the
Orcs. ‘Roast human for supper tonight!’ The circle
closes in. Your adventure ends here.

173-175

173

Soth your shoulders are numb and you are gasping
sor breath, but at last you hear the noise of rending
masonry as the door’s hinges give way. Deduct 1

pomt of STAMINA: you chose a_ particularly
strenuous way to get through this door. Fven

though the hinges are broken, the door still proves

hard to open. Turn to 116.

174
it is true that you feel very tired. You deserve a rest,
The chair is wonderfully comfortable, Senya has a
deliciously soothing voice and a gentle smile; you
cannot take your eres off the magnificent red jewel
shimmering at her neck. Nothing seems important
except that you should stay here and reJax. You are
not alarmed when the arms and legs of the chair
mould themselves around your limbs —it feels even
more comfortable. You die slowly and peacefully,
snaware that Senya is noserving-girl but the wizard
Senyakhaz, a mistress of illusion. You are not sitting
in 2 chair: you are being engulfed by a Viodblad, a
hideous creation of the resurrected evil sorcerer in
the depths. The Viodblad surrounds you and drains
your sTamMina, while you remain hypnotized by
Senyakhaz’s flickering ruby.

175
Tou reach a corner of the garden. The path and the
wall turn to the left, and in the corner a gap in the
wall forms a rough doorway into the base of one of
the battlement towers. The interior of the tower is
dark and silent. The path continues uninterrupted
176-177

alongside the garden until it reaches another tower
at the next corner. Do you want to enter the base of
the battlement tower (turn to 284)? Or will you con-
tinue to the next corner of the garden (turn to 44)?

176

You grip the tube and try to imagine something
emerging from it. Instantly a shaft of transparent
crystal appears at the end with the symbol. It is =
long, thin cone of very hard material, and the in-
nocuous brass tube has been transformed into an
effective stabbing weapon. Further investigation
reveals that the crystal shaft is very cold indeed —so
cold that it will damage anything living thal it
touches. It resembles a large, thin and very deadly
icicle, The end of the tube that you are holding is
insulated against the unnatural cold. While vou are
using this weapon you may add 2 points to your
SKILL; however, the Ice Sivord draws it energy
from its holder, and you must deduct 1 point of
STAMINA each time that you generate its icy blade
(in addition to any STAMINA that you lose through
wounds}. Deduct 1 point of sraMINA now, and
tum to 359-

177
The tapestry is real. The floor in front of it is false.
Yau drop helplessly through a black void and land,
stunned, on a stone floor, Lose 3 points of sTa-
MINA. The floor slopes steeply and is larded with
grease, You cannot stop yourself shding down-
wards swith increasing speed. You are on a chute
that spirals down through the rock in great loops.

178-179

You are battered, dizzy and barely conscious by the
time the chute straightens and ejects you into a
carer lit by a pale green luminescence. The light
emanates from the seething slime that covers the
floor of the cavern. You hurtle across a slick racky
ledge and are heading for the slime. Test your Luck. Lf
you are Lucky, turn to 326. If not, turn to 124,

178

Within seconds the globe's light is so intense that
you cannot look directly at it. It is radiating heat like
2 roaring furnace. An impossibly high-pitched note
sounds — and then the globe explodes with a force
that flattens the vegetation in the garden, strips the
trees and blows apart the nearby tower. You are
completely obliterated.

179

You suryey your chamber with a cautious eve. It
looks clean and comfortable. You search beneath
the mattress and behind the door: nothing. You
secure the door with its strongiron bolt. Crossing to
the window, you slowly unlatch and push open one
of the heavy wooden shutters. The night is com-
Dictely silent. You step out on to a small balcony. It
would be only a jump down to the street, and you
could clamber back easily. What will vou do next?

if you want to drop to the street and explore the
toiwn, turn to 68_ If you would rather goup the hill to
Neuburg Keep, turn to 106. lf vou decide te return
7 your room, secure the shutters, throw off your
cloak and boots and go to bed, turn to 372.
180-181

180

Prancing around the slow-moving wartior, evading
his broadsword and waving the crackling Trident

above your head, you attempt to goad the luminous
warrior into incautious speech. He says nothing but
‘Be gone or dic!’, and continues to slide towards
you. You have just yelled, ‘What's this then? &
you're Skarlos, how is it] have your Trident?", whes
the warrior shudders and halts, and another voice.

shrill and eerie, cuts through the darkness. “My

poor little joke Skarlos will be no match for you, =

seems. Come through into my workroom. Xakhaz-
welcomes spirited new slaves.’ lf you want to pest
through the doorway, turn to 279. If you decide

to pause to inspect the motionless warrior, tum t
107.

181

You unbuckle the straps of your pack, fold back the

leather flap and stare inamazement at the wriggling
mass that fills the inside of the pack. Hundreds of

finger-like protuberances reach up from a shifting,

lumpy core. Before you can react, the thing jumps
towards your face. You duck instinctively, but httle

rubbery tentacles catch in your hair and as you leap

to your fect vou find that the blood-seeking circular
suckers on the thing’s bloated body are bobbins
around your face and neck. In the midst of your
terror a flash of insight tells you that the Blood-
Lurcher tentacle has fed off your rations and has
mutated into this Kiss of Death Protoplasm. [he
thing's many circular lips writhe as they strive to

182

make contact with your skin. Test your Willpower. If
Fou make a successful roll, turn to 37. If you are

_Snsuccessful, turn to 250.

182
The weapon that is glowing in your hands is the
Trident of Skarlos, forged with long-forgotten en-

_SSsntments in the mountains far to the north, It is
made entirely of a metal with a blue sheen, and
every surface is covered with intricate engravings,

The head of the weapon — three barbed points
sunning together into a cylindrical shaft — is small
and elegant; by contrast the handle is bulky and has
symmetrical protuberances, in spite of which it is

_=2sy to hold with one hand, The handle is its power
“Source — now that the weapon is whole again, the

Sght given off by the separate parts is fading rapidly.

im addition to being easy to use, the Trident is
powerful it delivers a bolt of energy as well as

wounding in the normal way. When using it, add 2
‘Points to your SKILL. Against human opponents

the Trident will cause an extra 2 points of STAMINA
ss when you wound with it; but it was designed
cor fighting sorcerous and undead creatures, and

‘Serefore against non-human opponents you will
‘cause an extra 4 points of stamina loss each time

you wound. Its magic gives you strength and pur-
pose: restore up to 2 points of WILLPOWER, if you
are below your Initiz! score. Lastly, restore 1 LUCK
point for finding such an effective weapon! With
menewed confidence you return to the red passape.
Turn to 240-
183-154

183
tou are half immersed in filthy water, with your
== enarcled by tentacles. Reduce your sKILL by 3
points while fighting under these conditions.

MOTTLED KRAKEN  skxiitt8 STAMINA tO

= you kill it, you scramble up the muddy slope and
Seve the tower. You can continue to follow the
perimeter path (fur to 12), or you can cut your way
© the clearing in the centre of the garden (turn to
519).

134

tou crawl into the opening and wriggle dawn-
wards. Soon you are in complete darkness, and you
sold your sword out in front of you as a guide. As
you descend, the hole widens and slopes more
Sveply. You can feel that other tunnels from the
Surface are joining yours. You see light ahead, a pale
aaminescence. There is a slithering noise and a szust
ef noxious air. And then, questing upwards along
Se funnel, comes a featureless cylinder of plowing
Sime. It touches your sword-point and halls. You
Sab itand it retreats. After several more attempts tu
continue, and several more stabs, it contracts and
ssthers back down the hole. You breathe a sigh of
melief and decide whether ta follow it {tum to 65} or
boriously craw! backwards up the nearly vertical
minnel, rest fora few minutes, and then go through
Se door in the end wall of the courtyard {turn to
357).

185-186 187-188

187

185
aws glittering, the girl hurls herself at you with

You stare in horror at the wriggling mass that &
the inside of your pack. Hundreds of finger-is sperate ferocity. You defend yourself.
protuberances reach up fromashifting, lumpyc® WN Seixrp MAIDEN SKILLIO0. STAMINAS
Before you can react, the thing jumps towards your

face. You duck instinctively, but little rubbery Sren as she lashes at you with her deadly talons,
tacles catch in your hair and as you leap to soni ssp) Se sobs and shouts and screams, tears spilling from
you find that the blood-seeking circular suckers er wild eyes. You make out some of her words:
the thing’s bloated body are bobbing around yoo J Way! Go away! Run while you can! These claws
face and neck. In the midst of your terror a flash « .- this metal. . . Ican‘thelpit. Ldon’t want to kill
insight tells you that the Blood-Lurcher tentacle has . Se did it! She put me in here. -. . in this metal
fed off your rations and has mutated into this Kiss¢ . - Help mef

Death Protoplasm. The thing's many crcular u are no longersure you should kill this girl. After
writhe as they strive to make contact with your sk& 2 round of combat you can Fscape, making a
Test your Willpower. If you make a successful TOR Wy ota} vow to return — if you survive this adventure
turn to 67. If you are unsuccessful, turn to 290. to investigate further. Once out of the door you
=> unlock the door across the hall, if you have not
eady done so (turn to 96), or you can leave the
Sengeon area through the open door {turn to 376). If
Jou have the Runic Axe, or if you are not convinced
ey the girl's protestations, you continue to fight her.
you kill her, barn to 63-

186
Terrified townsfolk scatter as you unsheathe you
sword and prepare to meet the shopkeeper’s rads
onslaught. His loud roars are attracting attend
and you realize that you will have to finish him
quickly, before anyone arrives to help him.

ANGRY GROCER SKILL7 STAMINA

You fight for two Attack Rounds. If, at the end «
two rounds, your opponent is dead, tum to 364-
he is still alive, furn to 1071-

188
-ou unbuckle the straps of your pack, fold back the
ther flap and stare in amazement at the wriggling
Sess that fills the inside of the pack. Hundreds of
Smeer-like protuberances reach up from a shifting,
==py core. Before you can react, the thing jumps
Sewards your face. You duck instinctively, but little
smdbery tentacles catch in your hair and as you leap

tor

189—190

2 your feet vou find that the blood-seeking circular
suckers on the thing’s bloated bady are bobbing
around your face and neck. In the midst of your
terror a flash of insight tells you that the Bloud-
Lurcher tentacle has fed off your rations and has
mutated into this Kiss of Death Protoplasm. The
thing’s many circular lips writhe as they strive to
make contact with your skin. Test your Weiyxnver. If
you make a successful roll, turn to 17. lf you are
unsuccessful, torn to 210.

189
4s the Orc’s mountainous body crashes to the floor,
you lunge at the rope escaping from his dead
angers. Test your Luck. Ifyou are Lucky, turn to 236,
if you are Unlucky, turn to 138.

1990

Enough red light seeps through the open doorway
to enable you to see that you are ina vast armoury.
Rows of swords, shields, spears and pikes dis-
appear into the gloom. You have never seen so
many weapons in one room. They are all of antique
design and, you judge, are of southern origin. They
have been stored here for centuries, but you can see
very little corrosion on them; in fact, they are hardly
dusty. In front of you, befween the stacked rows,
there are three stone slabs. On each slab rests one
weapon. You cannot decipher the carvings on the
stones, Dut it is clear that each of these weapons is
Special in some way-
191-192

If you are content with the weapon you have, there

is nothing of interest to you im this room (turn t

359)- If you want to exchange your weapon for one
of the three on the slabs, you can choose between:

A richly decorated scimitar Turn to 245
A black mace with silver-tipped
spikes Turn to 128
A thin brass tube Turn to 13
igi

The old priest stares at you; disbelief, sorrow anc
anger cross his face. ‘In that case, my Mend,’ he

snaps, ‘I urge you to leave this town forthwith. &
holds nothing for you but danger and death. Now
quit this holy place at once!’

You stumble into the daylight It is unwise to irritate
the High Priest of Oiden. He has cursed you. R=
duce your Jnitiel sxi1. and sTaMINA by 1 point
each. You return to the centre of town. Turn to 108

192

You grit your teeth and turn away from the girl's
smiling face. You turn back and strike at her- Turn to
328.

193-194

193
4s you step into the gloomy passage between the
towers, you detect a flicker of movement. You spin
sound and just manage to avoid a thrusting sword,
You are confronted by one of the robed warriors —

2nd he clearly intends to fight first and ask ques-

Dons later, if at all.

SOUTHERN
SWORDSMAN

After two rounds of combat, you hear the sound of

SKILL 8 STAMINA 6

many feet charging down stone stairs within the

smvers. Do you want to Escape (turn to 347), or will
you stay and fight all comers (turn to 99)?

a —

— >: St re
iy Rath >, ee

~

194
You have a clear choice: to stay and attempt to fight
the three massive, decaying Chrabats (tum to 367),
or to leave the strange blue metal shaft, which they
seem to be guarding, and retreat up the stairway
turn to 240).

195

The Temple Quarter of Neuburg is one of the oldest
parts of the little town, and the most peaceful. It
contains a number of walled residences as well as
the fairly humble shrines and temples to the nor-
them gods that the ancestors of the Neuburgers
crought with them when they settled this area by
force several centuries ago. The newest and grand-
est temples, dedicated to the currently fashionable
gods and goddesses of commerce and farming,
occupy large parks along the magnificent New Wall
Street. Trom here, narrower avenues climb the
sower slopes of Castle Hill and provide access ta the
smaller and older shrines and temples. You find
that walking up these winding avenues is like
wavelling backwards in time, into the history of
Neuburg and its once barbaric peoples. But as you
climb up past the ever more dilapidated temples of
ever more ancient and forgotten cults, you begin ta
despair of finding anything useful in this part of the
town. You head for an unusually grand building
shal looks as ifitis the oldest temple ofall; but as you
approach, you see that it is virtually derelict and
spparently deserted. If vou want to press on and
visit this last temple, turn to 322. If you would rather
sam. back to the centre of town, turn to 108,

196-197

196
Your grip on sanity has been weakening since you
entered Neuburg; now you feel relieved to let go.
You no longer care that the creatures you just met
were suffering from the effects of an infectious
disease spawned by sorcery, and that you may De
infected. You shun contact with other beings, and
live the rest of your short life as a ragged, starving,
scurrying denizen of the tunnels beneath the castle.

197
You select one of the few barrels thatisin an upright
position. It has a tap but no drinking-cup, so you
pour a little of the barrel's contents into the palm of
your hand and drink a mouthful of the brown
liquid. It tastes bitter and sears the roof of your
mouth, You begin to feel rather ill. The liquid is
poisonous, but as you have consumed so hitle you
lose only 2 points of STAMINA. You can now either
look inside the barrel from which you have just
drunk (turn to 366}, or roll one die to taste the
contents of a different barrel: if you roll 1, 2 or 3, tum
to 166; if you roll 4, 5 or 6, turn to 84.

198-199

198

something is wrong. It is impossible that three
young women could look so similar; it must be an
Husion. They are trying to bewitch you, and it is
difficult to look away from them. You must attack
them: it is the only way to break this spell. With a
strangled cry, you raise your weapon. Which smil-
ing, unarmed, defenceless girl sill you strike:

The one on the eft? Turn ta 328
The one in the middle? Turn to 121
The one on the right? Turn to 283

199

The crate is made of thick, seasoned hardwood, and
the lid is held in place by nails as big as your finyers,
Soth your sword and your temper are close to
snapping by the time you succeed in prising the lid
2way from the other timbers, The scrabbling noises
trom inside the crate rise to a crescendo as you flex
your muscles and throw the lid aside — to find
yourself staring at a disgusting and incomprchen-
sible horror.

The crate is full of human limbs. There are hands,
fect end arms; some are well preserved, others are
decayed and putrid. The fetid stench is overpower-
ing. And all of them are moving - slithering and
stoping towards you.

Test your Willpower (deduct 1 point of WILLPOWER).
f vou make a successful roll, turn to 135. If you are
unsuccessful, turn to 324.
200-202

200

There is an iron ring set into the centre of the door,
but no amount of twisting it, or pulling or pushing,
will make the door open. It is clearly locked, and
you have nothing with which to try to pick the lock.
Perhaps the trident head will help? If you want to
insert one of the trident’s paints into the keyhole,
turn to 147. If not, you will have to try one of the
other doors — the small wooden one (turn to 373) oF
the enormous metal one (turn to 243)-

201

You bump into tables and trip over unidentifiable
bloody fragments — some of which clutch at you as
you pass — but you can move faster than Xakhazs
mountainous body of wriggling imbs. You will
have to fight, however — unless you have both the
Talisman of Loth and a green glass globe. If you
have both of these items, and want to try to use
them, turn to 18. H not, you must fight Xakhaz as
best you can: turn fo 167-

202

Mast of the jars and bundles of dried herbs are
unidentifiable, but you find one glass contaimer
with a label: ‘Powdered root of Orcsbane. Danger-
this herb has no taste but is deadly poison if taken in
quantity.” The bottle is quite small, so you decide to
slip itinto your backpack. You can find nothing else
of interest in the room, so you have no alternative
but to leave by the door opposite the one through
which you entered. Tum to 282.

203

203
Your search of Griltig’s room reveals nothing valu-
abic except fora small box containing 3 Gold Pieces.
You may keep these. Bubbling in a pat suspended
over a fire there is a stew. You are glad that you do
not know the ingredients, but it smells wholesome
and if you decide to eat some, it will restore up to 4
points of STAMINA. Nailed to the back of the door
you find a sheet of parchment with instructions for
Gniltig penned in graceful script and signed, in a
shaky hand, by Baron Tholdur. Grillig has been
instructed to hand overall prisoners to the southem
soldiers. The only exception is the female prisoner,
who is to be kept in comfortable circumstances and
who is not to be approached by anyone not wearing
éar-plugs! Two plugs of candle wax, presumably for
ee big ears, dangle from a string hanging over
€ nail

i vou have not already done so, you can cross the
hall and unlock the closed door. If you want to, you
can wear the ear-plugs while doing sa. Turn to 165.
If you leave the dungeon area through the open
door, turn to 376.

204-206

204

You drop your backpack and the green globe and
throw yourself io the ground, rolling over and ove
and slapping at your body. Crushed spiders tat
from your clothing, leaving sticky smears, bot
others attempt to find areas of exposed flesh inte
which to sink their mandibles. Fight them as if they
Werte one opponent:

GIANT SPIDERS
If you destroy them all, turn to 153.

SKILL 6 STAMINA &

The elderly Dwarf snaps at you: This way, thes

Come along!’ Me throws open a door and gestures ~

for you to enter. You hesitate; you were hoping =
slip away and roam the Keep at your leisure. The

sentry turns, peers at you suspiciously and begins
to walk towards you. “Come along, now, come

along!’ scolds the Dwarf. Tnto the waiting-room, =

you don’t mind.” If you decide to enter the wailing
room, turn to 249. If you attack the sentry, turn to”

143.

206
It seems as though several eternities pass as you
shiver in the dank darkness of your cell. You sleep

fitfully on the rotten straw and wake to find rodents”
gnasving at your tocs. You feel hungry: if you have -

provisions, you have plenty of time to eat another
meal. You begin to despair of anything ever har

pening. And then vou hear light, hesitant footsteps”

207—208

approaching your door. A key grates in the lock.
With infinite slowness the door opens, and in the
doorway a human shape is silhouetted against the
®eble light fom the dungeon hallway’s single cres-
set. The figure lifts its shortsword and says: ‘Who
are you?’ Will you attack (turn Eo 226), say that you
are one of Tholdur’s men, wrongly imprisoned
um to 340), or say that you are on a mission to
Geanse Neuburg and its Keep of their infestation of
evil (hirn to 85)?

207

The head of the trident is now glowing fiercely, and
the flickering blue light reaches a new intensity
when you point it at the large wooden door to your
aght. If you want to try to open this door, turn to
zoo. If you would rather try to unlock the metal
door, tum to 243. If you want to try the small
wooden door, turn to 373.

208
The danang-sirl dies. You feel wretched, and close
so both nausea and weeping. The surviving dancer
2ys her hand on your arm, smiles sympathetically
and whispers comforting words. You are grateful
for her friendship and understanding. Test your
Willpower. Lf you are successful, turn to 192, If not,
you cannot bring yourself te continue killing. The
young woman tells you that her name is Senya, and
arecs you tu sit down and rest. You agree. Turn to

274.
209-210

209

The unusual hat is made of loosely wound sirips of
white cloth. It is surprisingly heavy and, turning =
over, you find a shining, glutinous mass quivering
inside. Two dark lumps embedded m the tan=
parent gel seem to stare at you like eyes. You

instinctively swant to hurl it to the floor in disgust

but before you can do so you are taken with the idez

of trying on the hat. You are not sure where the idea

came from, but increasingly it appeals to you as the
best course of action.

Test your Willpower. LE you are successful, your d=
sire ta be rid of the thing overcomes the idea of
wearing it, and you drop it, back away and climb the
stairs (turn to 51). If you are unsuccessful, you
cannot resist the suggestion that you should try o=
the hat. Turn to 133.

210

You cannot bring yourself to touch the loathsome
object that has attached itself to your hair. In d=
mented fear you jump up and down and shake your
head, but the bulbous shape clings on and swings
against your shoulders with soft thuds_ Its suckers
mouth mindlessly, waiting for an opportunity te
touch the exposed skin of your face and give you the
kiss of death. Inevitably, as your frantic twitching
becomes wilder and wilder, a sucker touches your
flesh and holds fast. The sac of the creature's body
nestles against your face and begins to turn 2 dul
pink as it draws out your blood. If you still have 6or
more points of wii. Power, turn to 73. If you now
have less than  poinis, turn to 348.

211-212

211

he globe hits the floor and shalters harmlessly,
You now have no alternative but to fight Xakhaz.
Tum to 167.

212
You are in the inner bailey of the castle. Behind you
=e the ramparts of the second defensive wall, and
= front of you, across the narrow courtyard, the
massive bulk of the Keep itself juts out of jageed
eocks and towers dizzyingly above you. You seem
& be making progress: somewhere in that ominous
edifice of black stone must be not only the Mar-
Save, but also the source of the evil afflicting
Neuburg.

There is no entrance to the Keep on this side,
Sowever. The slab-like walls are featureless. A
Seeply rutted track leads away from you, tawards
Se left, between the Keep and the surrounding
wall. This track must lead to the main entrance, and
you have no choice but to follow it. First, however,
@s there are no guards in evidence, vou decide to
Ske this opportunity to take a short rest. You sit
concealed behind a large buttress and put your
sackpack on your knees in order to take stock of its
eontents. Does it contain a piece of Blaod-Lurcher
tntacle? If so, turn to 355. If not, turn to 132.

213-215 216-217

s¢ no revellers stumbling from the inns, The

ce is tere.

213
You push one of the doors and it opens. You S==
cautiously into a small anteroom. It is sparseyy
furnished, and there is a door on your night eam
another on your left. You think you can hear volo
from beyond the right-hand door. Which door wi
you try to go through, the left (turn to 387) or &
right {turn to 6)?

are determined to investigate; but first you
mast escape from this gatehouse. The one door is of
seid oak, banded with iron, and is locked from the
esside. You will have to try to force it open. Add
eecther your skit and STAMINA scores. Roll one

== eight times and add the results together. If the
“etal is less than your combined SKILL and sTa-

214 TN A, furn to 399; otherwise, turn to 42-

Paralysed with shock, gasping for breath, and
dened by pain, you are in no condition to fight
you stil have 6 or more points of WILLFOWER, }
must now Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn
320; if you are Unlucky, turn to 26. If you now
less than 6 points of wit LpOWE8k, turn to 154.

216
you have added Orcsbane to the stew, turn to 35.
Snot, tum to 304.

215
You emerge into a circular stone room. There are ne
guards, and your sword and pack are lying on the
floor. You collect them, and then peer through the
slits that pierce the thick wall. You realize that you
are in the ground-floor room of one of the towers of
Neuburg’s East Gate. One of the slits gives you &
clear view west along the main street leading to the
centre of town; the sun has set behind the buildings
but the whole scene is lit by a beautiful red sky
Everything is very peaceful — too peaceful! The
streets are almost deserted. There are no shou=
from the riverside wharves, no priests chanting &
the temples, no dogs snuffling in the piles of refus=_

217
The slight, red-robed figure glides to the Margrave’s
‘ee and interrupts his reminiscences by handing
mm a large goblet of wine, and then throwing back
Se folds of the robe’s cowl. You are surprised to
See that Tholdur’s mysterious adviser is a breath-
| Sking!ly beautiful woman. Shekisses the Margrave's
Sheek and furns to you with a dazzling smile. She
welcomes you graciously, encourages Tholdur to
218 219-220

drink, and suggests that after all your exertions you
would like to rest in one of the guest bedrooms. Yo= wake to find yourself on the stone floor, curled
are worried by the Margrave's increasingly sluree sand the trunk of the tree. Every muscle aches,
speech as he endorses this idea; you are even Moe amc your head is spinning. The Ordeal has cost you
worried when the woman offers to conduct you’ Scint of STAMINA and ‘1 point of WILLPOWER;
your room herself. Worry turns to alarm whes educt them from vour Adventure Shel.

outside the Great Hall, she summons an “escort of :

dozen swordsmen to accompany her. Unfortuns= : ; the strongest and most determined can with-
ly, there is nothing you can do. The woman is Ge peo a meeting wit Osten, Huw intores con
sorceress Senyakhaz, and she and her swordsme ay climb the tree again, or you may leave.‘ If you
will make sure that you do nol reach your bedroc =nt to experience the Ordeal again, return to 54. If
alive ; ea decide itis time to leave, turn to 368,

219

218
You stride into the centre of the cloth pavilion a
stand beside the table, marvelling at the array c you step out into the sun-bleached street, hun-
tempting delicacies. Languorously, onc of the rop== 4) Ses of swarthy faces turn to stare at you. Every
wraps itself around your waist—and in one sicke =er person in the noisy throng is swathed in light
ing instant the scene changes to madness and hoe Wj mes and shod in sandals; everything about you
ror. The ribbed black cable constricts, splintenmg oks foreign. Among the onlookers are a troup of
your ribs and lifting you above the table, which y adiers who arrest you simply because you are
now see through clouds of pain as a jumbled pile & fssed so oddly, You discover that you are in
bones and rotting flesh. The billowing tent-sides == Segoula, the ancient city at the edge of the desert.
in fact writhing, leathery, veined membranes, ane ate imprisoned in the lower of the Cheetah,
sd although no doubt you will one day escape or

220

your destination, which you once sav a5 4 mass &
ribbons, is revealed as a pulsating red maw. 156 4) pereleased, this adventure ends here.
illusion is shattered, but so is your life-

221-222 223

221

You place the incandescent globe in front of the
large wooden door and back away, Within seconcs
the sphere is too bright to look at, and you can tes
its heat from the far end of the passage. Then =
explodes. The roar is unbearably loud, and the
shockwave hurls you against the rock wall. Whee
your head clears and the dust begins to settle, you
sce that nothing remains of the door except 2 few
smoking splinters of wood hanging on twists
hinges. You grip your weapon and walk throvs=
the open doorway. Turn to 7-

Senons (deduct them from your Adventure Sheet) and
2s transmuted into a bloated, bload-sucking mass
hundreds of finger-sized feelers. Thanks to the
art's prescient axe, the thing is dying.

you had a globe of green glass in your pack, you
®e=c that it has been shattered into tiny shards; but
= creaking, it has left behind a large emerald.
“Nothing else is damaged, and the Dwarf provides
2 with a new backpack. If you have any food left,
=m to 3. If you now have no food, turn to 396.

You place your backpack on a bench and begin =
unbuckle it. Inches from your nose the Dwart’s
battle-axe whistles through the air and slices your
pack cleanly into two! Enraged, you draw your
sword; but the Dwarf, still dutching the run
covered haft of his weapon, is plainly almost <
surprised as you are. Carefully, you separate the
halyes of your pack - and discover the sii
twitching remains of the monstrosity that has bees
growing inside your backpack. The Blood-Lurch==
tentacle has managed to absorb two portions of your”

223

ou have never seen anything quite so unnerving as
young woman, perfectly normal up to the neck,

‘with her head folded back atan impossible angle

3 3 forest of wriggling tentacles sprouting from

c throat towards you. You run in circles around
224 225

the room, but she follows relentlessly, and you
finally collapse, sobbing, to await your fate. 55
does not attempt to harm you; she is interested =
booty, and her questing fingers search your bog
and your backpack. She takes any and all of =
following items that you have: food, Gold Picces,
green glass globe, the Talisman of Loth, anemersi=
The yawning gulf of her mouth begins te cose =
she opens the door and rolls you out of the roce

with her feet. If you now have less than 6 points &
WILL POWER, turn to 196. Otherwise, tur to 79-

225

Te elderly Dwarf thinks hard fora moment. ‘Ican'‘l
Sink of much that‘ll help you on this one,’ he
Sotters at last, ‘except for what I’ve picked up from
ne Kitchen servants in the Keep — those thatare still
ete and haven't been kicked out by the southern
mooie. THey say there’s someone hiding from the
wciers in the dungeon. He's lying law down there
use it’s the last place anvone'd think to look for
=n! Name's Cerwic or Cernic, or something simi-
ex. A pnest, anyway, 50 he might be useful to you.‘
thank the Dwarf for this information, but he
eys he has more to tell you. Turn to 396.

224
With your back to the uneven wall you shuffle along
the narrow Iedge as quickly as you dare. When you
reach the middle of the cavern’s rear wall you ==
obliged to waste time trying to find a way &
reaching up to take the keys. Eventually you s
ceed, butas you are returning along the third side
the pool the Vitriol Essence emerges from it an=
lashes at you with his daws. He has recovered som=
of his strength, but is less powerful than at your
encounter. His acid-dripping talons now inflict cay
2 points of damage when he succeeds in wounces
you.

VITRIOL ESSENCE SKILL § STAMINA

Uf vou kill him, you leave the cavern. Turn to 273
4 2 i>

.
, ee

226-227

226
* force of your attack bowls your opponent over,
sed you both tumble through the cell's doorway
@ec across the flagstones of the dungeon hall. The
Sechlight reveals a young man in military garb, but
@ecerently unfamiliar with armed combat. This
"mould be an easy fight.

ZOUNG MAN SKILL 4 STAMINA B

Ser one round of combat, however, the youth
Seds time to snatch aside his tunic, and a ray of
Ending white light strikes you in the face. Even

==t you have recovered from the initial shock, you
Gnd it impossible to look directly at your opponent.
‘Se effectis to reduce yoursktt1 by 2 points for the
uration of this fight. If you are beginning to think
‘Get vour attack was 2a mistake, after one more
sound of combat you can Escape, losing 2 STAMINA
Seints, call a truce and explain exactly who you are
Gurn to 29). If vou want to fight on to the death, orif
‘Jeu are wielding the Runic Axe, tum to 281 if you
sill your opponent.

227
The guards have no reason to suspect that you are a
particularly brave or clever intruder, and as you
Seem prepared to cooperate with their wishes, they
acopt a relaxed attitude. You are amazed that they
make no effort to deprive you of your weapon and
Sackpack. Restore 1 point of tuck, and turn to 64.

228-231 232-233

228 232
You follow the comidor a little further and find that You walk past the statue and begin to cut a way
it ends at a staircase that spirals downwards ink ough the foliage that has grown across the path,
darkness. You set off down it. Tur to 300. = front of you, rooted in the middle of the path, isa
Ssturbingly malformed tree. The closer you get, the
sore the twisted trunk and waving leaves seem to
225 : mble an unnatural parody of something else.
Test your Luck. If you are Unlucky, turn to 75. If yom 9) Ger some reason, the tattered clothes hanging on
are Lucky, you succeed in shoplifting a meat pie an ne boughs are peculiarly terrifying; how could they
a small loaf. Furtively, you slip your ill-gotten g2im® 7) so<-ibly grow ground the branches like that? And
into your backpack. Record the addition of one mea , up in that knotty bole of wood — surely those
on your Adventure Sheet. Turn to 280. bok tao much hike eves? They are moving oh

Ohms tree was once a person. fest your Willpower, Lf
230 u roll successfully, turn t) 82. If you are unsuc-
The talons of the Vitriol Essence rake your body <sful, turn to 125.
scoring your flesh and despositing streams of aad
Deduct 4 points from your stamina. Sucha woune
is not only deep and serious; it is also cripplingiy
painful. Can you stand the agony? Tesf your Wie
power. lf you make an unsuccessful roll, turn to1¢_B
you make a successful roll, you summon up the
fortitude to cither continue the battle (return to 28>
ar Tun from the cavern and scurry back to your
dungeon cell (turn to 206).

233

senyakhaz nervously fingers the ruby pendant at
throat while you question her. She seems to be
Snorant of events within Neuburg Keep, In factshe
= clearly just a very frightened young woman. And
wet through her fear you manage to detect her
Smpathy and consideration. She is really a very
ace person. She makes shy but friendly comments
sk=: ‘That weapon must be awfully heavy!’ and

“= (ou look worn out— you are obyinusly very tired.’

You hurtle through the columns of flame without WPou are completely off your guard when she
suffering a single burn. You do not even feelwarmm J punges her knife into your shoulder. Deduct 2
‘The wall of fire is an illusion. Unfortunately the pf J pemts of stamina. Her subtle suggestions have
that has swung open on the other side is completely orked too; you feel exhausted and scarcely cap-
real. Yes! your Luck. H you are Lucky, turn to 48. B (ale of fighting. Reduce your skit by 4 points
you are Unlucky, tum to 1905- while you fight Senyakhaz. Turn to 160.
234-235

234

‘tou grip the tube and try to imagine how it might
Gunction as a weapon. Perhaps something emerges
=om it? As soon as you think this, a thin shaft of
‘Zansperent crystal appears from the tube — unfortu-
sstely, from the end you are holding, which in-
Santly turns so cold that it burns your hand. You
‘se 2 points of STAMINA and drop the tube. The
shaft of crystal disappears. You try again, this time
Solding the end without the symbol. Turn to 176.

Daher beh baw et

ASV

235
rom the other side of the door you hear the sounds
& heavy objects being laboriqusly shifted, and then
2 gruff yoice calls; ‘Come in —slowly, and with your
weapons sheathed!’

7 A

,
‘ .
tie
this ” .
so eas > * .
* ,
‘
, :
» .
, “
; ’

ry,

We

i 9
rales

tou push the door open to reveal a large, airy room
sull of tidy shelves of plant pots, chests full of
=rden tools, and herbs drying in bundles in the
maiters_ There are windows in the walls to your right
od left, and another door in the wall opposite you.
@ the middle of the room stands a frail old Dwarf
wh bright green hands and forearms; there is a
wane-inscribed battle-axe stuck throuyh his belt,
ind you suspect that he can use it effectively despite
ois great age. He addresses vou again: ‘If you have
deed slain the Ogre that has kept me from my
=erden these past ten weeks, soldier, then you have
eamed my gratitude. T will allow you passage
Srough my storeroom, whether you be friend to
Saron Tholdur or foe.’

>.
—*

Hi eee , f

236-237 238-239

238

ou are trying to relax. You yearn for peace and rest;
st the buzzing and vibration of the Trident is an
anoying distraction. You are sure you ought to
ok at it, just to make sure that itis allright, but itis
S2hcult to tear your gaze from the flickering red
=m at Senya’s throat. You do not seem to have the
mergy to lift your hand in front of your face. Test
ur Willpower. If you ate successful, you avert your
aze and manage to glance down at the Trident

He stands aside to let you pass. Will you thank b=
and leave through the door in the far wall (turn
282), or will you tell him about your quest (tum
312)?

236
You grab the rope and hang an. You can feel &
trying to pull upwards, and you are sure thal if you
let > something unpleasant vill happen. You pal
the Orc's body towards you with your feet, and ther

stretch down to Search it. You find a key and, was = ™ '0 265). If you are unsuccessful, you can stop
more stretching, find thatit fits the lock of the dos serying about the Trident. It slips from your
You turn it, push the door open, release the rope mgers. Senya points out how tired you must be.

and jump through the doomvay. Behind you. por BEN £0 174.
cullises drop from the ceiling along the comde=

You look for a way out beyond the door. Tum
374-

239

Sour struggle is brave, but foolhardy and doomed
= failure. Attracted by shouts and the noise of
eshing steel, more warriors flood into the cellar.
rentually, mevitably, you will begin to tre; you
il drop your guard and be cut down. If you
Sempt to surrender now, you will be given no
sarter. Your adventure ends here.

237
By the time you arrive at the wet and windswep
market-square, you have managed to elude you
shadows. Your adventures in the Merchants’ Qua>
ter have not provided many answers to the puze
of what is going on in Neuburg—so where will you
try next? You can go to any part of the town thai you
have not already visited.

if you want to go down to the riverside wharves
tum to go. If you decide to venture up Castle Hilla
visit Neuburg Keep, turn to 289. you walk into the
Temple Quarter, turn to 195-

240-241

240

Atthe top of the stairway you emerge into the were |

ruby glow of the main passage. You pause to com
sider your options.

At the far end of the passage there are two other

doors. The massive metal one is secured with three

locks; if you have not yet been through it, and you
have a set of three keys on an iron ring, you can us=
the keys to open the door (turn to 190). The smal
wooden door does not appear ta be locked. If you
have not already done so, you can open this dow
and step inside (turn to 373). The only other alternz

tive is to return down the side tunnel to your

dungeon cell (turn to 206}.

241
‘The words “Be gone or die’ echo lugubriously from
inside the warrior’s armour as he attacks.

LUMINOUS

WARRIOR SKILL it STAMINA 22

242-244

242

tou race across the courtyard and through the open
gateway. You spin round, close the heavy wooden
coor and bar it with a thick beam. You allow your-
self 2 grin of triumph as you hear the swordsmen

sash against the wooden barrier, For the moment,

you are safe from pursuit. You survey your sur-
roundings. Turn to 62.

243

4s you approach the vast metal door you begin to
despair of opening it. It fits tightly into its metal
Tame, and it has no handle ~ in fact itis completely
scatureless except for the three large keyholes and
she multitude of rivets. You will have to trv to open
the small wooden door near by (turn to 373) or the
Srger wooden door at the other end of the passage
turn to 55). Of course, you could just return to your
cell via the narrow tunnel, and wait there for some-
thing to happen (turn to 206).

If you are displaying the Talisman of Loth, the
wartior's SKILL is not affected by it however, =
does sap his srAmiNa by 1 point each Atte
Round. If you are fighting with the Trident of Skar
los, each wound you inflict will cost your opponer=
an extra 4 points of STAMINA —as if he were int
man. If you kill him, you may go straight to the
doorway and look through it (turn to 279), or you
can stop to inspect the body {turn to 107).

244

You find a large enough hole and peer down it. Itis
sacular, with a fairly smooth surface. It slopes
seeply downwards, and an unpleasant odourwafts
=p to you. Once inside, it will be impossible to tum
sound. Are you going to go in feet first (turn to 349)
o head first (turn to 184)?

245-247

245
You eat an early breakfast in the common room &
the Southern Star. ltis a hearty meal, broughtio you
by the innkeeper’s wife. You regain up to 4 points &
STAMINA, if you have been wounded. After paying
the innkeeper, you have 5 Gold Pieces remainmg =
your purse, Record this on your Adventure Sheet.

You return to your room to collect your sword anc
backpack, and then step out into the market-squar=
The sky is leaden, and the Souther Star's name
board clatters to and fro in the gusty, drizzly wine.
If you decide to go straight to Neuburg Keep, turn te
289. If you want to walk about the town, tum to 137-

246

The dancing-girls have bewitched you. One of them
whispers that you should relax in the chair behing
you. You half remember a reason why you shoul
not do so, but it seems unimportant to you now.
*My name is Senya,’ says the gir] as you sit down
‘Rest here with us for a while. You are very fired
She kneels and smiles up at you. Turn to 174-

247
The scimitar was the ceremonial sword of Viax the

Slayer, a ferocious general who was killed in single
combat with the legendary hero Skarlos. On he
death the sorcerer Xakhaz preserved his depraves
spirit in the hilt of his scimitar. As soon as you pick
up the weapon, Vlax attempts to dominate your
mind. Test your Willpower. If you are unsuccessful

248

cur to 386. If you are successful, you drop the
sword and vour head clears. Return to 190 and make
2 different decision.

FE a Ps
EG inal pete ee

The tunnel comes to an end at a door. At first you
<n see€ no way to open it, but after a few ex-
perimental pushes and pulls you realize that the
stone slab pivots about a horizontal central bar. You
cawi through the lower opening into a long, low
cellar and, having established that there is no im-
mediate danger, you push the door back into place.
The walls of the cellar are faced with stone slabs,
end it is now almost impossible to differentiate the
door you have just come through from the other
slabs. The rectangular cellar has a normal door in
the centre of the short wall at its other end, and a
door in the centre of each of the long walls on your
night and left - although you cannot sec these two
Soors at first, as they are obscured by the two lines
of huge barrels that occupy the length of the cellar.
You walk between the rows of barrels, each of
which has a tap and a small cup on a string. You
decide to taste some of the contents of Baron Thol-
dur’s cellar, but the barrels all look alike. You have
to take pot luck. Roll one die. If you roll:

ior2 ‘Turn to 166
30T4 Tum t 84
50r6 Turn to 197
249-250

-

249
The waiting-room is square and contains no furm

ture. The door through which you entered is in the
centre of the only plain wall; each of the other three
walls is covered with a tapestry. You are immedi
ately struck by the artistry of the pictures. You can
scarcely detect the individual stitches of needle
work, and the colours are so vivid and the scenes so
lifelike that when the heavy cloth moves slightly
you could almost believe that you were looking
through window's. In fact — surely that man in thet
crowd scene tumed his head? He is looking at you!

Soldiers are approaching. You hear marching feet
outside the door. The words ‘STEP INTO THE FiIC-
TURE are painted on the ceiling above each tape>
try. You can think of no betler way to escape from
this room. Which tapestry will you try to walk into: 2

pastoral landscape showing a view of the roof-tops.

of Neuburg and the countryside beyond (turn to
152), a gloomy interior scene, possibly an empty
cellar below the Keep (tum to 177), or a mass of
people walking up an immense stone ramp towards
a temple under a bumming sun (turn to 393)?

250

You cannot bring yourself to touch the loathsome
object that has attached itself to your hair. In de
mented fear you jump up and down and shake your
head, but the bulbous shape clings on and swings
against your shoulders with soft thuds. Its suckers
mouth mindlessly, waiting for an opportunity to
touch the exposed skin of your face and give you the

251-252

mss of death. Inevitably, as your frantic twitching
®ecomes wilder and wilder, a sucker touches your
Sesh and holds fast. The sac of the creature's body
@estles against your face and begins to turn a dull
nk as it draws out your blood. If you still have 6 or
ore points of witLrowEr, tum to 93. If you now
Seve less than 6 points, turn to 348.

251

The metal shaft fits perfectly into the three-pointed
Spear-head. Before you can inspect this strange
weapon more closely, you are appalled to see that
Se skeleton is moving. With many creaks and clicks
= stands upright in the coffin, moves its jaws in a
Zruesome parody of speech and lurches towards
you. You thrust at it with your newly acquired
weapon, and are surprised and delighted to lind
Sat as soon as the points touch it, the skeleton
Degins to fall apart. Within seconds there is nothing
sf but dust. There are no further disturbances
while you examine the remarkable weapon. ‘l'urn to

282.

252

You are nearing the open double doors when a
poise behind you makes you spin round. A wall of
Sre has sprouted right across the passage. You
cannot see beyond the raging tongues of flame that
seach up to lick the curved roof. You are now
Sallway between the fire and the doors. Do you
decide to continue to the open doors (tum to 81) or
% turn back tp try to find a way through the flames
turn to 145)?
253-254

253
Tt is just as well that you had no time to considet

your attackers. They are Swo horribly unnature)
misshapen Blood-Lurchers, and they attack you one
ata lime.

SKILL STAMINS
First BLOOD-LURCITIER 10 ,
Second
BLOOD-LURCHER 5 9

Blood-Lurchers are hairless, eveless beasts with
razor-sharp talons on all four paws. Ther have no
teeth: their gaping red mouths are a mass of wr
thing tentacles. If they kill you, they will tear vour
body to ribbons and draim your blood through the
suckers on their tentacles. If you kill them, turn to&

254
The dazzling ray that bursts from the Talisman has
little effect on the homibly mutated young woman
She does notice it, however, and after fumbling at<
thong around her neck she produces a pendant—2
large black gem. The light from the Talisman seems
to concentrate itself on the gem, which enlarges and
pulsates under the concenirated glare. Soon, both
you and the woman realize that something fs amiss:

255

sut the Talisman and the gem are held together by
en unbreakable force. You are unable to move. Light
Som the Talisman pours into the gem, which grows
2s large as a fist, and then suddenly shatters into
iny fragments. The woman is unhurt, and the
Talismani is no longer shining. Its power has gone; it
S useless. You discard it and attack the woman.
Turn to 228. .

255

4 short dark tunnel leads into a chamber carved out
of the rock. There is no floor: instead there is a deep
pool of still liquid, in the depths of which shines a
pale luminescence which begins to rise to the sur-
face while you watch. Around the perimeter of the
pool is a narrow ledge, and hanging on hooks on the
wall opposite you are two sets of keys on iron rings.
Will you:

Stay where you are and await de-

velopments? Turn to 287
Start to edge along the side of the

I? Turn to 10

Agitatetheliquidwithyourhand? Turn to 305

256-257

256

You are paralysed with fear and disgust as you
watch the spiders crawling across your body. You
feel a sight pain, like a pinch, on the back of your
hand, and you realize that one of them has sunk
its mandibles into your skin, These spiders are
poisonous: deduct 2 points of STAMINA. The
Durning sensation of the venom flowing in your
vems brings you to your senses, and you react at
last. Turn to 204.

257

if you now have less than 6 points of WILLPOWER,
your sanity has snapped under the onslaught of the
horrors you have witnessed while in Neuburg, You
do not care what happens to you now. Even if you
are still sane, you are temporarily petnified with fear
and unable to resist as a slug-like creature slides
slowly out of the suit of armour, curls its glistening
bulk around your body, and drags you through the
doomvay into the next room — where your meeting
with the grotesquely deformed conglomerate being
Xakhaz delivers a further shock to your deranged
senses. Sane or insane, you are used in Xakhaz's
Surgical experiments.

256-260

258

Before the echoes of your cry have died away, the
staircase is flooded with light. Small crystals set im
crevices in the rock wall are glowing brightly. There
is one very near you, level with your leftshoulder. £
you want to try to prise it from its place, turn to 34.
you would rather continue down the steps, turn to
109.

259

There is something very strange about this crate. At
first, you are not sure what it is. An unpleasant
odour emanates from it; as you lean over it, the
smell overpowers even the stench of the river and
you feel quite sick. You crouch next to the crate, and
you suddenly hear noises from inside. You press
your car to the wooden boards, and you can dei-
nitely hear movement — scratching, slithering,
flapping. You look at every side of the crate, but you
can find no air-holes. If there is an animal — or 2
person — inside, it will suffocate before long.

If you want to look inside the crate, turn to 199. &
you decide to push it off the jetty and into the water,
turn to 294. If you would rather leave the crate alone
and explore a different part of the town, turn to 377-

260
The bloody body of the Vilodblad lies in steaming
chunks at your feet. There seems to be nothing of
interest in this room apart from the rich furnishings.

There are two doors, side by side; you entered

261

Srough the left-hand one. If you leave through this
Soor, tum to 149. If you leave through the right
S2nd door, turn to 371.

261

The Margrave gestures vaguely and begins to
mumble about having you taken away. You inter-
wept. ‘Tholdur? you shout. ‘Recover your senses,
an! You remember me. We fought side by side at
Selm Hill, and we defeated a horde of barbarians
Sot unlike this rabble infesting your Keep. Wake up!
Think! Outraged murmuring ripples around the
all. A guard knocks you down from behind, and
you stagger to your feet to see Baron Tholdur and
Ge red-robed figure in the midst of a furious yet
whispered argument. The Margrave seems to have
covered some of his wits, and he obliges his
Systerious adviser to accept a compromise. He
addresses you ina clear voice. ‘My memory is failing
me these days,” he says, “but there may be some
wuth in your story. Do you have any proof of these
Ssenge allegations of yours? If you are who you say
you are, I seem to remember giving you a gift, or a
@ken ...” If you have not yet given it away, you
ve a bejewelled gold ring given to you by Tholdur
Sany years ago. If you want to show it to the
argrave, turn to 70. Otherwise, turn to 392.

262-263

262

A roughly hewn tunnel descends siceply
you. Brushing aside cobwebs, you follow it dows
wards. Daylight creeps in through cracks between
Tocks on the right-hand side; the passage must be
running alongside the cleft that separates the mons
lithic crag which forms the foundation of the K

from the smaller rock on which the gatehouse has
been built. When light ceases to seep in, you assum
that the descending tunnel has passed the bottom a
the ravine. It levels out, and you can just make o@f
that there is a side-tunnel leading in from the nzh=
However, it is blocked by an iron grille; and the
main passage turns sharply to the left and di=
appears into darkness. You decide to follow it Ture

to 332-

263
As You approach the forbidding temple entrance.
the old man begins to walk unsteadily to meet you.
Although he looks as ancient as the temple statues,
he has brilliant blue eyes that assess you keenly. His
voice, too, has no hint of frailty — and you are sure
you Teoosnize it from somewhere,

“You have just destroyed some of the vermin that
are infecting this town. My thanks to you, my
fiend, 1am Huw, Neuburg’s sole remaining pric=
of Oiden. On behalf of the Great Lord of Battle anc
Madness, please accept this gift for slaying our
enemics.’ Huw hands you asmall st»ppered bottle.
and adds: ‘This is a Potion of Berserk Rage. After

264

have consumed it, you must fight your next
ttle to the death, and berserker strength will flow
your veins.” Record this potion on your Adwwnture
fet, YOu may use it once only, at any time except

ing 2 fight. Once you have drunk it, your sKILt
il increase by 4 points, for the duration of your
fight onlr.

w continues: ‘| think you may be the warrior I
k. Please enter the temple. You can rest, eat, and
atk forther.’ If you accept this invitation, turn to

338. If you would rather retrace your steps and

=plore another part of town, turn to 108.

264

The shaft very soon begins to curve and widen, and

Before long you are able to turn round and crawl
srwards, and then finally to stand upright and
walk, when the vertical shaft has become a horizon-
=! tunnel. Ahead you see an orange glow, almost
ake firelight, and you advance cautiously. The tun-
eel you are in leads into a wider passage, the very
walls of which are pulsating with the ghastly fiery
slow. The passage is completely deserted and
sient. Turn to 170.

265

265
The Trident of Skarlos is crackling with energy ene
burning with blue radiance. By its light you se
things differently: the chair in which you are sitins
is made of pulsating leathery flesh, for instance
You leap to your feet and escape from the amo=

phous engulfing creature. It is a Viodblad, a stealer
of STAMINA, a creation of the resurrected sorceres”

from the depths below. It was about to enfold you
in its deadly embrace. Senya, too, is different
Although still smiling, albeit bitterly, and sal
dressed as a serving-girl, she now appears tall ané
real. The Trident seems Keen to attack her. “You
have done well to find me,’ she sneers, ‘and to se
through my little illusions. | am Senyakhaz. It has
been a pleasure to meet you, butnow I mustleave I

have to protect my master below, and !| fear tha

strange blue weapon. Farewell." The room fills with

smoke. A door opens and closes. Coughing, you

make your way to the side of the room, where you

remember seeing two doors side by side. One @

them leads to the anteroom through which you

were Jed. Will you try to leave through the left door

(turn to 94} or the right (turn to 215)?

266

266
tou wake up in a cavernous, vaulted dungeon. You
are spreadeagied on a cold stone slab, There are

@anacles around your limbs and tight straps across

your body. All you can do is watch the wildly
Sancing shadows cast by the light of flaring cressets.

Eventually, your solitary confinement ends. A
cowd of silent, barely human forms enter the
chamber. Their hideous deformities are su repellent
Sat you cry out in disgust. They are carrying a
selection of yery sharp knives. They kill you slowly,
and take ecstatic pleasure in your agonized wri-
things. You go completely insane before you die-

267-268

267

The corridor turns to the left, and from this point on
there are arrow-slits on both sides. You are walking
inside 2 wall, towards an isolated tower. The corri-
dor ends at a small door, in front of which sits the
Ciggest and ugliest Orc you have ever had the
misfortune to meet. He sees you approach. If you
are carrying a tray and a pot, turn to 285. If not, turn
113.

268

Standing by the body of the slain Dwarf, you take
stock of your surroundings. The room is large and
rectangular, with a door behind you and another in
the opposite wall. Each of the other two walls has a
large window; the shutters are open, and you can
see down to your left the steps leading from the
garden to the castle’s inner bailey, while to your
oght the ground slopes away in a tumble of rocks to
the curtain wall of the fortress. You calculate that
the door opposite you will give access to the battle-
ments of the inner defensive wall, and possibly a
way into the central Keep itself. This room is light,
airy, ordered and tranquil. Itseems like a good place
© have a rest, and perhaps to eat some provisions.
You unstrap vour backpack and place it on a bench
mn front of you. You unbuckle it and lift the leather
dap. Among the objects that you might have in your
peck are food and a section of tentacle sliced from
she mouth of a Blood-Lurcher. If you do not have a
piece of tentacle, turn to 136. If you have a tentacle
Sut no food, turn to 295. If you have both food anda
niece of tentacle, turn to 185.
269-270

26g

You stand watching in horror as the disintegrating
Chrabats lurch towards you. As their flaking fingers
seatch for your face you tum and run. Without 2
backward glance you scramble up the steps, into the
glowing passage, and along the side-tunnel back to
your dungeon cell. Prostrate and shivering in the
darkness, you attempt to recover your wits. If your
WILLPOWERis now less than 6, you fail. You remain
in the desolate squalor of your cell, afraid of the
slightest noise, unresponsive to any approach.
Within a few days you starve to death- If ¥ou stil
have 6 or more points of WILLPOWER, you recover
from your ordeal — but you have no desire for any
further exploration below the dungeons. Turn te
206.

270
For many minutes you stare in horrified fascination
at the transformed being. It seems to be talking t
you: there is a voice in your head telling you that life
as a2 tree is green and peaceful and painless. It is=
very attractive prospect.

Your adventures in Neuburg have proved too ter
rifying — you have gane completely insane, But you
know what you have to do: you return to the statue.
pull down the arm lever and wait in calm anticip=-
tion as the stone basin fills with green liquid. Yoo
lower your head and drink, Turn to 380.

271

Among the blood-soaked remains you find
Xakhaz‘s head. At close quarters itis clear that even
this part of the creature is a mongrel creation,
welded together from parts of several men and
women and at least two animals. It is stil] alive, and
hurls slurred insults at you until you cleave it in two.
Inside the monstrous cranium you find a jumble of
several brains and a tiny metal box. You pull out the
Sox and keep it in your backpack. You pace slowly
and unsteadily back to the magical mirror, which
you find has a single lever set into the frame. You
pull it, watch the colours swirl acrass the mirror’s
surface, and then step through. Turn to 400.

272

You follow the winding path downwards; the high-
pitched noise ts getting painfully loud. The tunnel
opens imto a natural rock chamber and, as you
hesitate on the threshold, a strange being enters the
poo! of light cast by your lantern. ft has the rough
size and shape of a Dwarf, butin all other respects is
like nothing you have seen before. Its body is
covered with dense black fur; each of its four limbs
ends in a talon-tipped claw, but while its legs are
short and stocky, its arms are grotesquely elongated
and many-jointed and support sail-like wings of
fleaible membrane- Its torso is small, but its human-
looking head is enormous and bears two vast
flapping ears and tww blank, saucer-like eyes. Be-
neath its tiny nostril slits it has a small mouth filled
with pointed fangs. Itis a Bakk-Ruman, a legendary
monster from subterranean caves. It is completely
blind, but can accurately detect your presence by
listening to the varying echoes of its continuous
piercing call. This shrick is now so loud that you can
scarcely bear the pain, and your SKILL is tempora-
rily reduced by 2 points. This is unfortunate, as the
creature decides to launch an attack.

BAKK-RUMAN SKILL 7 STAMINA GQ
it vou kill it, turn to 146.

273-274

273

Back in the rubescent passage you inspect the keys.
It is obvious that the set of three heavy keys on 2
thick iron ring must fit the massive metal door near
the cavern you have just left; the single key should.
therefore, give access to the wooden door at the
other end of the passage. You can use these keys to
open either of the two doors, but you must choose
t open a door that you have not already been
through. Lf you unlock the metal door, turn to igo. If
you unlock the wooden door at the other end of the
passage, turn to 7. Ifyou have already been through
both doors, or do not want to go through either of
them, you must return to your dungeon cell: turn to
206.

274
You step out of the mirror into Senyakhaz’s cham-
ber —and come face to face with Senyakhaz herself.
Both of you stand frozen with shock for several
moments, since she is as surprised to see you
emerging from her magic portal as you are to meet2
woman you killed only minutes ago. Your mind
fumbles for an explanation, and you reach a conclu-
sion which is, in fact, close to the truth: the portal
has malfunctioned and thrown you back in time.
And then you have no more time to think, as
Senyakhaz aliacks. Return to 160 and relive your
past! ~~

275-276

275

You reach a corner of the overgrown garden. Ahead
® you the path continues to follow the enclosing
wall. To your left there is a squat tower; its upper
Storey is part of the castle’s outer battlements and is
maccessible from the garden, buta large jagged hole
provides an entrance to the lower section. To your
mghta narrow path leads directly to the centre of the
zrden, and through the dense foliage you can
make outa statue ina clearing. Will you:

Continue to follow the perimeter

path? Turn to 11
Enter the tower through the broken

wall? Turn to 350
Cut your way to the central clearing? Turn to 319

276
Tou close the door, find a set of keys on a peg
Sehind it, and set to work unlocking locks and
enbuckling buckles. Soon the young man is free of
tis chains and of the confining headgear. Not sur-
pnsingly, his face is swollen and he speaks as if his
mouth were full of dry bread. “Thank you. Thank
you. Hurry please. You must release . . . my sister.’
He is very agitated, holds his jaw in both hands and
ziances repeatedly at the door. If you decide to leave
sow, turn to 354. If you stay to unshackle the young
woman, turn to 50-
277-279

277
Do you have any food in your backpack? If vou do:
turn to 188. Lf not, turn to 292.

278
The sounds of your struggle attract the rest of the

guards, and you soon find yourself once agaiz

hemmed within a circle of gleaming swords. You
throw down your weapon and try to endure the

pain and indignity, as the soldiers beat you, deprive

you of your weapon and bind your legs and arms

Reduce you frutial ski. by 2 points until you can

find another weapon. The guards drag you the rest
of the way to the dungeons. Tur to 64.

279

You look through the open doorway and stare ata

slaughterhouse scene that revolts all your senses.
The overpowering stench of blood and decaying
flesh washes over you. The cavernous chamberis &

by lurid blobs of luminous slime that crawl across

the walls. Everywhere there are piles of corpses and
bits of corpses, Some half-dismembered creatures
are moving; others are not only unidentifiable, they
are also wrong — blasphemous, unnatural abominz-
tions. And all the time you stand staring in horror, =
shrill, tittering voice taunts you. You try to force
yourself to listen and to discover the source of the
infuriating voice, Turn to 389.

280

280
As you make your way through the crowds back
towards the market-square, you notice a tiny,
rickety stall that appears to be laden with junk, rags
and useless knick-knacks. The proprietor, also tiny
and rickety, is small and bearded enough to be a
Dwarf; but then again, he’s ugly enough to be a

He notices you staring at him. You glance away, and
see the two robed swordsmen again, still shadow-
mg you ata distance. You look up at Neuburg Keep,
shrouded in grey mist above the roof-tops. And
when you look again at the aged stall-holder, he is
smiling at you in a curiously knowing way. He
Seckons you with one spindly digit.

Tf you have money to spend, my friend,’ he says, T
have an antique curio which may help you, if you
are having difficulties with our southern neigh-
Dours.” If you are interested in buying a piece of old
unk from this street-trader, turn to 129. If you have
no money, or would rather not spend what little you
have, you continue on to the market-square (turn to

237)-

281

281
‘The young man’s lifeless eyes stare up at the vaultec
ceiling, the rough stonework of which is visible for
the first time since its long-forgotten construction —
it is lil by the fountain of light issuing Irom the
pendant that rests on the youth's bloodstaines
chest. You carefully remove the Talisman, on =
leather thong, from around his neck. The light
dances madly in all directions. Shielding your eyes
and squinting, you examine the small disc: on the
reverse the word Loa1H has been engraved in plain
letters. If you decide to keep it, you can slip the
thong over your neck and conceal the Talisman
beneath your tunic. You can, of course, choose &
leave it with the dead body.

The door to your cell is behind you. There are three
other doors leading from this hallway: the one =
front of you is open, the ones to your right and lem
are closed and locked. There are three keys on a ring

hanging from the belt of the dead youth. You com”
rectly assume that one of the them unlocked yous
cell, and that the other two will unlock the two

closed doors. Will you go through:

The open door? Tur to 375
The locked door to your nghti? Tum to 185
‘he locked door to your left? Tumitos

282-284

282
The door opens on to the battlements of the castle’s

mmer defensive wall. Through the arrow-slits on
your night you can see part of the outer bailey: a

jumble of rocky outcrops sloping down to the
castle's perimeter wall. To your left is the inner
bailey which surrounds the central Keep, the black
bulk of which looms over you. You feel very ex-
posed on the high walkway, but you can see no

guards and no one challenges you. You set off

towards the next tower. Turn to 31-

283
Sill smiling in death, the girl sinks to the floor.

Stricken with remorse, you stare down at the

corpse. You raise your eyes to meet those of the
remaining Syo dancers; they smile radiantly and
begin to dance again_ Your weariness amazes You;
you gaze at the young women. Test your Willpower.
if you are successful, turn to 58. IF not, turn to 246.

Tou step into the darkness of the ground floor of the
‘ower, and you notice that the air is warm and
musty. As your eyes become accustomed to the
gloom, you realize that this room is used to store the
285

garden compost. Everywhere there are vast heaps
of decaying leaves and rotting vegetables. There is
no sign of any other door from the room, or any
access to the upper floors of the tower. You cen
investigate the compost heaps with the tip of your
sword (turn to 122), or you can leave the tower and
continue towards the next corer of the garden
(turn to 44).

The Ore scarcely looks at you as you approach with
his lunch—he has eyes only for the stew-pot. ‘Bring
that here quick!’ he growls. T’m so hungry I coul¢
cat three of them, [hopeit’s hot today.” You are now
very close to him. If you decide to throw the tray and
the pot at the Orc, and attack him while he &
distracted, turn to 342. If you hand the tray to him
and watch him eat, turn to 216,

286

286

You hear a footfall behind one of the cellar’s middle
doors. Before you can react, the door flies open and
four robed swordsmen rush in. You face them, with
your weapon at the ready, and back away between
the rows of barrels. Behind you, another door
Opens, and you turn to see another four soldiers
entering the cellar. You are surrounded; cight
swords converge on you.

if you want to fight, turn to 239. If you decide to
surrender, turn to 49. If you have a jewel-encrusted
ting, an emerald, or any Gold Pieces, you can try to
bribe your opponents. Deduct the item you decide
to offer from your Adventure Sheet, and turn to 97.

287-289

287

You watch the glowing blob rising through the
liquid. It fills the cavern with weirdly rippling red
ight. It reaches the surface, assuming humanoid
shape, and then erupts into a dripping, shining
form, hovering above the surface of the pool. The
Vitriol Essence bares his vulpine fangs, flexes his
vast, cClaw-tipped hands, and hisses: ‘Who dares
disturb my centuries of slumber?’ Without waiting
for a reply, he attacks.

VITRIOL ESSENCE SKILL 8 STAMINA 6

ifhe manages to wound you, tum to 230, When you
have reduced him to 2 points of STAMINA, turn to
112.

288
You move the rod towards 'X’ and watch the mirror.
Cloudy shapes form in the glass, and within
seconds the mirror’s frame contains a swirling mass
of colours. You walk up tnit, take a deep breath and
step mto the rainbow maelstrom. ‘Turn to 335.

259
The road winds up Castle Hill towards the broading
bulk of Neuburg Keep. The few townspeople you
meet shake their heads and avert their eves; they
obviously believe you are either recklessly brave or
completely senseless. The path becomes steeper,
the houses are fewer and are little more than stone-
fronted caves, and the black towers of the Keep’s
curtain wall loom above you. The path you are on
290-291

appears to lead directly to the castle’s main gate
house. There isa smaller, overgrown path thatleads
off to the right. If you want to stay on the main path,
turn to 2. If you would rather take the nghthand
trail, furn to 95-

290
You cannot bring yourself to touch the loathsome
object that has attached itself to your hair. In de-
mented fear youjump up and down and shake your
head, but the bulbous shape clings on and swings
against your shoulders with soft thuds. Its suckers
mouth mindlessly, waiting for an opportunity to
touch the exposed skin of your face and give you the
kiss of death. Inevitably, as your frantic twitching
becomes wilder and wilder, a sucker touches your
flesh and holds fast. The sac of the creature’s body
nestles against your face and begins to turn a dull
pink as it draws out your blood. If you still have 6 or
more points of wILLPOWER, turn to 33- If you now
have less than 6 points, furn to 348.

291

Your kicking was sufficiently vigorous to slow the
progress of the slime, and you scramble back to the
surface, encouraged by a buming sensation all over
your fect and ankles. The courtyard is still deserted
when you re-emerge, and you study the damage to
your feet: several layers of skin have been dissolved
away, Reduce your STAMIN 4 by 2 points. You can
go down another hole, head first this ime (tum to
184); or you can go through the door in ihe wall at
the end of this courtyard (turn to 157).

———— eo — re

292-293

292

As you open your pack your nostrils are assailed by
2 stomach-churning stench. Ihe strip of rubbery
flesh that you cut from the mouth of the Blood-
Lurcher has decayed into a semi-liquid blob of evil-
smelling slime. None of the other contents of your
pack are damaged, and you clean them as best you
can and carry on. Lurn to 139.

293

Standing in a shadowed nook of the corridor, you
havea view towards the guarded double doors and
along the wide corridor that leads back to the stair-
ways. It is from this latter direction that you even-
tually hear the sound of footsteps. You listen in-
tently. Two people are approaching, you are sure:
One is marching quickly and is much nearer now
than the other, who is dragging his feet, You dart
from coyer and race towards the stairways, looking
for another recess from which to spring an ambush.
You find one and pull yourself behind a rock out-
crop just as the first marcher — a brisk southern
swordsman — comes into sight. When he draws
level with you, you attack.

SOUTHERN
SWORDSMAN STAMINA 8S

if you have the Talisman of Loth, its dazzling bril-
liance will reduce your opponent’s SKILL by 2
points. If you kill him, turn to 126.

SkIL18

294-295

294
The crate is very heavy, and the foul smell combined
with the agitated scraping noises from within make
the task horribly unpleasant. But at last you have it
teetering on the edge of the jetty and you give it one
final shove into the murky waters of the river. It
sinks soundilessly.

Unwittingly, you have destroyed a nest of vile
abominations ~ unnatural creations of ancient sor-
cery — and you have done it without endangering
yourself, Add 1 Luck point.

You recover from your exertions and survey the
dismal riverside scene. There is nothing happening
and no one insight. You decide to walk back into the
centre of town and from there explore a different
part of Neuburg. Turn to 377-

295
When you open your pack, your nostrils are
assailed by a stomach-churning stench. The strip of
tubbery flesh that you cut from the mouth of the
Blood-Lurcher has decayed into a semi-liquid blob
of evil-smelling slime. None of the other contents
are damaged, and you clean them and the interior of
your pack as best you can. Turn to 136.

296-297

296
The narrow uphill tunnel does not seem to have
Deen used for centuries. It meanders for some dis-
tance, but eventually ends — blocked by an iron
grille. You put your weight against the harrier and it
crumbles into flakes of rust. The corridor you are in
now is scarcely larger than the one you have lett. ‘To
your left it narrows and heads steeply upwards
through swathes of ancient cobwebs. You are at a
bend in the corridor, and the way straight ahead of
you is wider and looks as though it might actually
have been used within the last hundred years. You

Zo Straight ahead. Turn to 332.

297

The sloping floor is treacherously slippery, but by
throwing yourself backwards you manaye to avoid
sliding into the pool. You pick yourself up from the
mud and find yourself staring into a pair of unblink-
ing eyes that have just broken the surface of the
dirty water. You draw your sword as the eyes are
followed by a mottled, warty body from which a
mass of lengthening tentacles are snaking actoss the
water towards you. Test vour Willpower. If you make
2 successful roll, turn to 385. IF you are unsuccessful,
fiirn to 141.

298-299

298

You find yourself lying on the stone floor, curled
around the trunk of the tree. You spring to your
feet, marvelling at the feeling of well-being that
flows through your body and the sense of calm,
fearless purpose that fills your head. Your Initim
STAMINA and WILLPOWER ate increased by 1 point
each, and you can add up to 2 points of STAMINA
and WILLPOWER to your current scores — but you
cannot exceed your new Initial values, of course.
Record these changes on your Adnenture Sheet.
‘Oiden has rewarded your fortitude,’ says Huw.
‘Now you must leave and accomplish your mis
sion.” Turn to 368.

299

As you open your pack your nostrils are assailed by
a stormach-churning stench. The strip of rubbery
flesh that you cut from the mouth of the Blood-
Lurcher has decayed into a semi-liquid blob of evil
smelling slime. None of the other contents of your
pack are damaged, and you clean them as best you
can and carry on. Tur f 132.

300

300

Your descent of the stairway is long but uneventful.
You emerge at the end of a wide carmidor, where
several other dark flights of steps descend to the
same point. Ahead of you the cordoris alittle less
dim, since itis iluminated by occasional cressets on
the stone walls. You walk along the corridor. It
bends to the left, then straightens again, and you
see that ahead of you it forks into two passages of
similar sizes. You draw closer and peer along cach
one,

The left-hand passage is featureless, apart from the
double doors that you can just make out at its far
end. The doors appear to be open; light is streaming
out, and you think you can just see a table laden
with coloured objects — pethaps food? —in the room
beyond. The right-hand passage is equally feature-
less and equally long. It tex terminates in a pair of
doors, which are closed. Two robed warriors stand
on guard. Will you slink down the left passage (turn
tO 252) or the right one (turn to 155)?

3901-303

301

Despite your reticence about yourself, the imn-
keeper turns out to be an affable fellow, and before
long he is regaling you with local stories and jokes.
He denies having noticed anything wrong in the
town, and his beaming bearded face and the fine ale
he seryes combine to make you question your first
assumptions. Maybe you have been imagining
things. How could anything be wrong in a quiet
town like this? Feeling rested and reassured, you
decide to go to bed. The innkeeper shows you to
your room and bids you good night. Tum to 279.

302

The dead Chrabats’ flesh smells putrid. The foul
ness of the stench makes you retch and you are
desperate to leave, but you remember to retrieve the
blue metal shaft — at the very least it will ight your
way back to the dungeon cell. If you have the head
of a three-pointed spear, you find that it matches
this shaft, which is in fact the weapon’s handle and
power source (turn to 182). If you do not have the
spear-head, the handle is useful only as a temporary
lantern. It fades completely within an hour of its
removal from this room. You return up the stainway
to the glowing passage (turn to 240)-

303
You can do nothing but stare in horror at the de

formed vegetable remnant of a fellow human- Its
weirdly moving branches scem to reach out towards
you, and with a cry you turn and bolt back past the
statue to the perimeter path. Turn to 12.

304

304

You force yourself to watch as the Ore slobbers his
way through the pot of stew. He finishes, sucks the
spoon, belches and looks straight at you. ‘You still
here?’ he grunts. ‘Who are you, anyway? Where's
that pipsqueak Bindebol? What's going on?’ He
nses to his feet, one hand closing arnnind the haft of
his battle-axe, while the other pulls taut a rope that
hangs through the ceiling. You are surprised thatno
alarm sounds, but you have no time to think about
it; you have to fight.

ORC GUARD
if you defeat him, turn to 69.

SKILL g STAMINA 13

305~-306

395

You dip your hand in the liquid — and a wild scream
escapes your lips. You jerk it out again, too late: the
acid has gone to work. Smoking flesh is peeling o=
your fingers, and you are still crouched by the pool.
whimpering in agony, when the Vitriol Essence
rises Out of the liquid a few moments later. You are
in no state to defend yourself against his cue
claws. He lacerates your body and then pulls you
into the pool.

306
You undo the latch at one end of the box and, before
you can move, the panel is pushed open from inside
and a creature hurtles out at you. It is just as well
that you have no time to consider your attacker. Itis
a horribly and unnaturally misshapen parody of =
dog.

BLOOD-LURCHER

Blood-Lurchers are hairless, eyeless beasts with
razor-sharp talons on all four paws. They have no
teeth: their gaping red mouths are a mass of wre
thing tentacles. If this one kills you, it will tear your
body to ribbons and drain your blood thraugh the
suckers on its tentacles. If you kill it, you realize that
the boxes all around you are the kennels in which
the Blood-Lurchers spend each day. At night they
are released to terrorize Neuburg. You cannot kill
them all, so you continue along the path to the far
wall of the courtyard. Turn to g2-

skii1.8 STAMINAG

307-308
397
Roll one die. If vou roll:
1 Turn to 274
2 Turn to 4
3 Turn to 53
4 Turn to 61
5 Turn to 335
6 Turn to 148
308

The massive door seems to be jammed, but with a

inal muscle-wrenching heave you manage to move

it. You drop the huge bars into place. When you

hear the mass of soldiers crash into the doors, you

allow yourself a triumphant erin. Safe, for the ma-

ment, behind barred doors and stone walls, you
survey the inner courtyard. Turn to 212.

309~31 it)

309
fhe metal weapon-shaft is of no use to you. You

wonder why it has been laid to rest so carefully.
Your ruminations are interrupted by the skeleton,
which is creaking into an upright position within
the sarcophagus. It turns its empty eye-sockets
towards you, its jaws clatter together in a parody of
speech, and it advances towards you with its arms
outstretched. You must fight it. Each time you
succeed in wounding it, you subtract only half the
STAMINA that you would for a normal opponent,
smece the skeleton feels no pain.

SKELETON SKILL 4 STAMINA 10

if you manage to reduce it to a small heap of
shattered bones, you do not have long to enjoy your
victory. Three of the small chamber's walls are false,
and more opponents are breaking throurh the thin
plaster. Turn to 46.

310

Numb with horror and despair, you cannot react as
Nakhaz’s hideous body approaches. A hairy arm
with two elbows reaches out for you, and the
purple-veined star-shaped appendage at its end
grips you by the shoulder, lifts you and hurls you
against a wall. [f vou now have less than 6 points of
WILLPOWER, turn to 338. If you still have 6 points or
more, turn to 365.

——

311-312

311
Several minutes pass before the door opens slowly,
Two figures greet you. A large, robed sentry glares
at you as he towers over a grey-bearded Dwarf —
presumably one of the Margrave’s servants — who
looks up at you in some surprise and says merely,
‘Yes?’

If you tell the Dwarf merely that you would like to
see Baron Tholdur, turn to 205. If you add that you
aré an old fmend of the Margrave and are anxious to
help him out of his current difficulties, tum to 45.

312

Having taken a deep breath and a precautionary
hold on the pommel of your sword, you tell the
Dwarf gardener about your old friendship with the
Margrave of Neuburg Keep and your mission to
cleanse the town of evil. The old Dwarf ponders for
several minutes and finally sighs: "Very well. I be-
heve you- I can’t think why anyone should tell such
2 story unless it were true. And anyway, evenifyau
are a villam and an impostor, | don’t see how you
could make things worse than they are already. I'l
help you, if can. Sit yourself down. Eat, ifyou have
food — I've none myself.

It’s been a long time since you last had a chance to
relax. You have found a temporary haven and an
ally. Recover 1 Luck point, If you have no provi-
sions m your pack, vou rest for a few minutes and
then ask the Dwarf for information (turn to 396). If
you have some food, turn to 3. Hf your pack contains
313-314

both food and a piece of Blood-Lurcher tentacle, turn
instead tu 222.

343
Your throw was not quite good enough. The globe.
burning with a fierce light, stakes Xakhaz but
tumbles through a criss-cross of arms and tentacles
and falls to the floor. Test your Luck. Ifyouare Lucky,
turn to 83. If you are Unlucky, turn io 222.

314

Transfixed with horror and loathing, you do not
resist as a multitude of decaying hands wriggle up
towards you, clutch your clothing and begin ta haul
you into the crate. As the gruesome limbs begin to
claw and batter you, you come to your senses.
Luckily, you are sill holding your sword. You lash
out frenziedly. This will be a difficult fight: each
individual limb can do little damage, but it can be
destroyed only if you slice it into tiny pieces. Fight
the limbs as one monster. After two Attack Rounds
you can Escape.

CRATE OF LIMBS

If you survive, you hurtiedly slam the lid over the
appalling mess in the crate and slump to the ground
in exhaustion. When you recover, you return to the
centre of town to decide which part of Neuburg to
explore next. Tum to 377.

Skiit 6 STAMINA IS

315-317

315

Stepping over the bloody corpses of your felled
®pponents, you leave the gatehouse and stand in its

shadow at the edge of the town. You need some-

where to rest, eat and nurse your wounds. You

remember that the Southern Star tavern, ina promi-
nent position on Neuburg’s market-square, was a

“Susy and friendly establishment. Tum to 119.

316
Tou manage to cling to the greasy ledge. One foat

ships into the moist and rubbery Protoplasmic Slime,

Sut you pull it back sharply as you feel the acidic
digestive juices beginning to work. You crawl to the
side of the cavern and stand up. You cannot leave
the cavern via the steep and well-oiled chute thal

ends on the ledge; but there is a narrow passage that

also leads away from the ledge. You have no choice
but to try it. Turn to 9.

327
the cellar is cold and smells so noxious that you feel
sick. A tickling sensation runs all over the surface of
your skin. Nothing attacks you, however, and you

are able to retrieve the glowing object. Itis a globe of

green glass, and it feels warm as you cup it in the
palm of your hand. Carrying it carefully, you hoist
yourself back through the hole in the tower floor
end you stroll into the garden where, glancing
downwards, you realize that your body is covered
wath hairy spiders. Some are as large as your hand.
test your Willpower. If you make a successful roll,
=m to 204_ If you are wnsuccessful, turn to 353.
318-319

318
Claws glinting metallically, the girl launches herself
at you with animal ferocity. This is going to be a
dangerous fight.

SPIKED MAIDEN SKILL 10 STAMINA §

Even as she lashes at you with her deadly hands,
she seems to be shouting and screaming. Her face is
2 tear-stained mask of desperation. You cannot hear
any of her utterances, however, because of the
ear-plugs.

If you have the Talisman of Loth, you can reveal it
after one round of combat— but the girl’s attack is so
persistent that to do so you must accept the loss of 2
points of stamina as her talons rake you. The
Talisman reduces her skit by only 1 point — she
can hardly see you anyway through her tears.

Uniess you have the Runic Axe, you can Escape after
one round; you then leave the dungeon area
through the open door (turn to 376). If you kill the
girl, turn to 63.

319
Hacking at undergrowth and overhanging bran-
ches, you force your way to the centre of the garden.
In a clearing stands a metal statue in the form of an
Elven warrior maid. Her uplifted, sword-wielding
nght hand appears to be hinged at the shoulder,
and in the crook of her left arm, instead of a shield,
she is carrying a narrow-necked um. At her feet is
an empty stone basin. You also see that beyond this
320—322

statue the overgrown path continues to the far
corner of the garden — but the path is blocked by
dense undergrowth and a strangely shaped tree

Will you:
Attempt to move the statue's right
arm? Tum to 112
Investigate the path beyond the sta-
tue? Tum to 232
Return to the perimeter path? Tumtom

320

Despite your mindless agonized wnithings, you
contrive to keep your precarious balance on the
poolsideledge. You are defenceless agaist the next
attack of the Vitriol Essence. He lunges at you with
one of his gleaming fluid arms; his laws sink deep.
Turn to 351.

321

You have never been altacked by an opponent quite
as unnerving as this young woman, who looks
perfectly normal up to her neck, but whose head is
folded back at an impossible angle. A forest of
wriggling tongues sprout from her gaping throat
You shudder and prepare to fight. If you have the
Talisman of Loth and want to reveal it, turn to 254.
Otherwise, turn to 128.

322
The ruined temple is set on a rocky outcrop halfway
up Castle Hill. The path to it is steep and narrow,
and you can almost feel the watching presence of

323-325

the ominous, windowless edifice as you clamber up
towards it. The dark stone facing of the temple is
pitted and cumbling, but a long line of enormous
grim-faced statues of weapon-wielding kings and
qucens is still standing. The only entrance is a small
dark hole in the middle of this line of guardians.
Standing in the doorway, apparently dozing, is a
wizened old man. If you decide to approach the old
man, turn to 47- If you would rather hide in the
rocks and watch the temple entrance, turn to 144.

323
You are sure that the serving-girls have fled to raise
the alarm; you must hurry. The room you arte in has
two doors, side by side, and you cannol tell which
one the women used to leave. You entered the raom
through the left-hand door. Do you leave through
this door (turn to g4) or the nght-hand door (turn to

115)?

324
Test your fuck. Tf you are Lucky, turn to 193. Ef you

are Unlucky, turn to 23.

325

A close inspection of the door reveals that between
the battered wooden panels there are gaps through
which you can insert your sword. With a little
experimentation, you are able to locate the bar and
lift it Out of its sockets. The door swings open —
about aninch. Thereis still a weighty obstruction on
the other side. Turn to 116,
326-327

326

The little Gnome huriedly puts down his tray and
backs away as you emerge from behind the curtain.
You hold up your hands to show that you mean him
no harm, and ask him why he is so unhappy. ‘Tt
happens every day,” he wails. That Ugbilya’s got it
in for me. She's the head cook and she’s gut 2
temper like a dragon with indigestion. Every day
she picks on me to carry a pot of stew up to Kulgob-

He's another Orc like Ugbilya—even bigger, in fact,

and with a worse temper. Ie stands guard outside
the Treasury, down this corridor. He always gives
me a clout when I take his lunch, and then I get
another one from Ugbilya for coming back late, You
could do it for me today! Kulgob wouldn't dare to
clout you. I'll sit here until you get back!’ Do you
ignore this suggestion and sct off along the corridor
(turn to 267), or do you pick up the tray and inspect
its contents a litle way down the corridor (turn to

384)?

327
You begin your search of the room at the end
opposite the door through which you entered. Near
the door, which you suspect leads out on to the
battlements, you puil aside a cobwebbed collection
of bean-poles, trellises and bales of straw and reveal
a grimy fireplace. There is nothing but soot in the
grate, but your thorough inspection of the filthy
orifice is rewarded when you find that in addition to
the chimney Icading straight upwards, there is also
a narrow gap beside the grate. You can make out the

328-329

first few steps of a staircase leading downwards in
the thickness of the wall. Award yourself 1 Luck
point: you have discovered a secret entrance to the

_ cellars of Neuburg Keep. You abandon your search,

25 yOu are impatient to enter the Keep. If you decide
to use the secret staircase, turn to 25- If you would
rather leave by the nearby door, turn to 282.

328
The girl's smile becomes a2 derisive laugh as she
dances away from your blow, ‘Congratulations!’
she sneers, “You have unmasked Senyakhaz, first
Bete of ancient Zagoula. Now I must take my
leave” You make to pursue her, but she runs
guickly, ee symbols in the air with her fingers.
The room fills with dense smoke. You can see
nothing, but you hear a daor open and close, As the
smoke clears, you make your way to the side of the
room where two doors stand side by side. Do you
try to go through the left-hand door (turn iv g4) or
the right-hand one (tum tp 115)?

329

Within seconds the globe is too bright to look at and
is producing as much heat as a furnace. You are
beginning to think that you are perhaps much too
close to it when it explodes. Your last sensations are
the force of a massive concussion and an impossibly
loud roar, and then your body is ripped into hun-
dreds of charred fragments.

330-332

33°

You leave the glche glowing ever more brightly on
the ground behind you. As you walk away, you can
feel its radiant heat on your back. The globe ex-
plodes. You hear a tremendous crash, and then =
surge of turbulent air throws you to the ground
singeing your hair. Stones and broken branches
hurt all around you. Lose 2 points of STAMINA
You pick yourself up and survey a scene of devasia!
tion: the trees are stripped, the tower is a pile of
shattered masonry. You continue on your way t&
wards the next comer of the garden. Turn to 44.

331

You shuffle awkwardly to the right, encouraged by
the mysterious voice: “That's right, my friend, that’s
right, just a little further now, but please hurry: !
dare not be found here, | am in mortal fear for my
life, but perhaps you are the one we are expecting,
and J cannot let those Southerners take you. That's
it, that’s it; have your ropes now —so!” And you feel
the bonds falling from your wrisis.

You tear off your blindfold and wrench the

from your ankles. You are im a cellar; a little light
enters from an open door al the top of a steep flight
of narrow stairs. Of your rescuer there is no sign
There appears to be no other door. Do you want te
search the cellar (turn to 59), or will you escape up
the staircase (turn to 215)?

332-334

332

You turn a corner and see light ahead of you. You
soon reach a landing, lit by a single cresset. You lean
over the balustrade and see the staircase wind
steeply down from the corridor and disappear into
darkness. From the landing, the cormidor continues
featurelessly, and also disappears into gloom. If you
decide to go down the stairs, turn to 300. If you
would rather continue straight along the corridor,
tum to 40.

333
Deduct 1 point fom your sktii. while you are

using the mace, it is less easy to strike with than a
sword or a battle-axe. The silver-tipped spikes,
however, are a particularly effective example of
fiendish sorcery. Whenever you wound an oppo-
nent you do 4 points of damage to his sTAMINA.
You now leave the armoury. Turn to 359.

334
The Dwarf gardener has eaten very little recently,
and he relishes his portion of rations as if it were a
banquet. ‘T thank you again, soldier,’ he says.
‘That's the second service you've done me and I
don’t know how I can repay you. Ask away, though
—some of these herbs have stange properties, and T
know a little about the goings-onin the Keep. I'd let
you have my axe, Bokhorbhil, but she’s getting
temperamental these days. She'd have me attacking
335

you, if l weren't careful!’ He seems tu find this idea
very amusing, and chuckles for some time. ‘Ah,
dear me, dear me. Where was |? | remember — ask
me for something, soldier!’ Will you ask for:

A preparation to bolster your wILt-

POWER? ‘Turn to 151
information about potential allies in
the Keep? Turn to 225

The Dwarf’s opinions about the
three-pronged spear-head (if you
have it)? Turn to 375

335
You step out of a mirror set into a wall of an empty

room. The swirling colours behind you are the only
source of light, and as the room is large you can
barely make out the only exit—an open doorwa yin
the opposite wall. When the mirror’s surface re-
turns to normal you are left in complete darkness,
and you gain the impression that this stone-walled
chamber must be deep underground. Straining
your eyes, you sce that the open doorway is now
visible, touched by a pale luminescence; and then
through it moves the source of the light - a huge
Warmior in 2 complete suit of plate-armour and an
enclosed helmet. The ghostly light is emanating
from his body: it is gleaming through the cracks
between the metal plates and streaming through the
slats in his visor. His voluminous surcoat reaches to
the floor and trails after him. He addresses you ina
flat, dull yoice: ‘Iam Skarlos. Be gone or die.’ Lf you
have the Talisman of Lothand want to revealit, tum
to 27. Otherwise, turn to 91.
336

336

You pull yourself into a narrow gap between Svo
derelict warehouses opposite one of the few usable
jetties. A barge is tied up here, and you guess —
correctly — that the cart is making for this jetty.
When the cart comes into sight, you see that it bears
the coat of arms of Baron Tholdur; and, m addition
to four of the southern warmiars, it carries a number
of casks and boxes. It seems that a consignment of
goods from Neuburg Keepis about to leave town by
river.

The soldiers pull whips and clubs from their belts
and proceed to collect a team of labourers from
nearby cottages, With much cursing and groaning,
punctuated by the occasional crack of a whip, the
small riverside men manage to unload the crates
from the cart and carry them on to the waiting
barge. This takes a long time, and you are becoming
very impatient. The soldiers are impatient too, and
start to use their whips and clubs more frequently.

Are you going to continue to wait and watch? If <o,

turn to 114. If you would rather leap from your
hiding-place to attack the robed bullies, turn to 78.

337-338

337
With one blow you sever the skull, sending shards

of bone in all directions. The skeleton remains
motioniess, but the walls begin to crumble. Three of
the small chamber’s walls are false, and consist of
only thin leyers of plaster. You watch aghast as they
are demolished by undead creatures that were
walled into their tombs centuries ago. Turn to 46.

| 3
You hare no spirit fora fight. You offer no resistance

as Xakhaz toys with you, juggling your broken body
in his yaried limbs and throwing you against walls,

giggling insanely all the while. Xakhaz will use the

jess damaged parts of you in his sorcerous surgery,
whose results he will continue to send through the
magic portal to terrorize Neuburg.

339-341

339
You are transfixed with horror as slimy tentacles

encircle your legs and pull you gently into the

The appalling sight of the creature's beak-fike lips
opening above the water brings you to your senses.
You still have your sword in your hand and you
begin to fight. Turn to 183.

340
Your visitor's response to your statement takes you

by surprise. He pulls aside his tunic and a ray &
brilliant light bursis from something on his chest

You stagger backwards, momentarily blinded. You
hear the door slam shut, the key turn in the lock anc
the man’s desperate yoice, saying: “You are not
then, the one l await. Ifyou are Tholdur’s man, you
must live or die according to Tholdur’s justice.“ He
scurries away, ignoring your shouts for help. No
one else visits you. You starve in this cell.

1

You prise the axe from the dead Dwarf’s ercen
hands, marvelliny at the workmanship that forged
it. You cannot decipher the munes that min along the
haft, but you sense that the weapon has magical
properties. lt is not just that it is so well made that #
_willimprove your fighting prowess — you also fing

that merely hefting it in your hands fills you with
bloodlust and a fearless craving to maim and kil
your enemies,

If you swant to keep it, you will have to unbuckic
your sword and leave ithere. When using the Runic

342-343

Axe, your Initial sKr it is increased by 2 points; but
your belligerence is increased too. Whenever you
are given the option to fight anyone or anything,
you must always choose that option; and you can
never decide to Escape from a fight. You can, of
course, decide to leave the axe here and continue to
use your sword. Turn to 268.

32
The Orc roars with surprise and anger. He dodges

the flying potand wipes steaming stew from his face
with one hand while the other closes around the
haft of his battle-axe. He rises to his feet and you
fight.

ORC GUARD

if you defeat him, you find a key on a ring at his
waist. It fits the lock of the small door, You open the
door and step through. Turn to 374.

SKILL 9 STAMINA 13

343
‘A pretty gift indeed! The Margrave plainly thinks
highly of you.’ The innkeeper’s hearty manner dis-
appears and he addresses you earnestly. ‘It is clear
you are a mightly warrior. 1 beg you, in memory of
your fnendship with Baron Tholdur, to rid this
town of evil. Why our Margrave does not help us I
cannot guess —no doubt he has good reason. Weare
2fraid of strangers these days. The Baron returned
from his last trip south with a retinue of foreign
swordsmen. They treat the town as if it belonged to
them. But, worst of all, people are simply dis-
appearing; and al night, there are things roaming the
o's —

344

streets. No one knows what they are. But if anyone
wanders outside after nightfall, he never return
home. Sometimes we find pools of blood, and the
tracks of a large beast.

‘1 can offer you litte advice. Above all, do not
venture outside after dark. Do not even open the
shutters in your room. Tomorrow, you should seek
our Old TMuw at the muined tempie to Oiden. Hes
the oldest man in Neuburg. People say he is hal
mad, but I have found that his words contain much
wisdom. Now you should sleep. Remember what!
have told you, and please help us if you can.’ The
innkeeper show's you to your room. Turn to 179-

344

The old priest cannot disguise his joy as he beholds
the gem-encrusted gold ring resting on the palm of
your hand. He snatches it from you and exults: ‘Jus
as Oiden foretold! Neuburg has found its champion
at last! My friend, I can help to prepare vou for the
trials you must endure; but first, I suggest you
fortify yourself with a square meal. Follow me"

Surprisingly, the temple is stocked with provisions.
You eat well in a cavernous kitchen. You can restore
upto 4 points of STAMINA, and you may putin your
backpack enough food for another three meals. If
you da so, add them to your Adventure Sheet. While
you eal, Huw gives you information. Turn to 22.

345-346

>
AS you inch along the narrow ledge, you glance into
the: pool and notice with horror that the fiery glow of
the Vitriol Essence is beginning to rise slowly from
the depths. Snatching the keys and completing your
perilous circuit of the pool before the creature
reaches the surface will require nimble footwork
and good fortune. Add together your current SKILL
and Luck points. Roll five dice. If your total is less
than your combined siti. and Luck, tum to 43.
Otherwise, turn to 224.

346

‘New orders from the Margrave!’ you shout as you
approach. “You are to report to your commander
immediately! I will take over here.’ The southern
swordsmen have difficulty understanding you.
They appear suspicious and confused, One of them
watches you while the other knocks on the doors.
After some time one of the doors opens a fraction,
and a small figure in a red robe peers through the
crack and carries on a whispered conversation with
the guard. The door closes, the guard beckons to his
comrade, and without another word they match
away. Somewhat astounded, you are left standing
outside the closed double doors. Turn to 391,

— —_ eer SS tt

7 7.

347-348

347

You have lost 2 points of sTamina, but you have
saved your life. A horde af swordsmen charge from
the two gatehouse towers and chase you along
the entrance passage. Fleeing desperately, you
emerge into a large courtyard surrounded by high
walls, Ahead of you there is a set of large double
doors, one of which is ajar. To your nght there is 2
small gate in the wall; the gate is dosed. To your lef
is a Similar gate, wide open. The soldiers are al your
heels. You have to decide immediately which door-
way you want to run to. Will you choose:

The double doors ahead? Turn to 259
The closed gate to your right? Turn to 397
The open pate to your left? Turn to 242

348

You run, weeping, in circles. You flap your arms
helplessly and utter gasping screams. The horror of
this latest experience has seni you completely in-
sane. The thing on your face bulges larger and
redder as it drains you of blood, and soon you are
reduced to a staggering, mewling, shriveiled tra-
vesty of a human being. You stumble and fell
satiated, the Kiss of Death Protoplasm flops off your
bloodless corpse.

349-350

349

You lower yourself into the opening and wriggle
downwards. Soon you are in complete darkness,
but it makes little difference — even though the hole
gets wider as you descend, there is not enough
room for you to twist round and see where your feet
are going. The hole is almast vertical now, and the
problemis no longer how to move forward, but how
to prevent yourself falling. Then you hear a slither-
ing noise. There is a gust of noxious air from below,
a pale green light fills the tunnel and you feel your
feet being enveloped in sticky, stinging slime. All
you can do is kick violently and try to scramble back
up the hole. Roll two dice three times. If the total is
less than your SKILL on two or three out of the three
attempts, hirn to 291. Otherwise, turn to 15.

350 :

The inside of the tower is gloomy. The air is damp
and fetid. When your eyesight is accustomed to the
darkness, you see that the floor slopes steeply dawn
to a muddy pool. The walls and floor are slick with
moisture. If you want to slide down to the edge of
the pool, turn tp 66. If you would rather leave the
tower, you can continue to follow the perimeter
path (turn to 12) or cut a way to the central clearing
(turn to 319).

351-354

351

The talons of the Vitriol Essence rake your body.
scoring your flesh and depositing streams of add.
Deduct 4 points from yourstTaMtnN A. Sucha wound
is not only deep and serious; it is also cripplinely
painful. Can you stand the agony? Test your Wil-
power. If you make a successful roll, you will your-
self to continue: return to 10 and resume your fight
If you are unsuccessful, turn to 214.

352
The flames do not radiate any heat. You are able to
walk up to them, and, after a little experimentation,
you conclude that they are perfectly harmless. This
is an illusory wall of fire, and you confidently step
through it, Unfortunately, the pit that has openes
on the other side is completely real. Turn to 105.

353
If you still have 6 or more points of WILLFOWERs.

turn to 256. If you have less than 6 points, tum to
395-

354
‘The young man rushes to the door ahead of you ana
tries to preyent you leaving. He stops holding his
jaw and shouts at you, and you are repelled when
you see that he has more than one tongue—in fact he
seems to have a mouthful. You push him aside anc
leave, locking the door behind you. Tum to 79-

355-357

355
Do you have any food in vour backpack? If you do,
turn to 181. If not, turn to 299.

356

You have uttered the name of a rival divinity in a
shrine dedicated to the Howling Gads of the
southern peoples. You will suffer for your sacrilege.
Reduce your Luck and WILLPOWER by 1 point
vach, and your STAMINA by 3 points, until you
leave this unholy place by returning to the passage
at the top of the stairs. Feeling dispirited and lethar-
gic, you are dimly aware that you have made an
etror and fallen under a curse. Turn to 379.

357
You pull aside your tunicand reveal the Talisman of

Loth. Senyakhaz recoils from its dazzling brilliance,
but then recovers slightly and, shielding her eyes,

calls ouf fo you to stop. ‘Don’t slay me yet, soldier,’
she continues. ‘I recognize that shining trinket.
Perhaps I know it better than you. It seems that no
one has told you of its fatal flaw: never use itin front
of a miror. Die, you fool!’ She sidesteps nimbly,
and for an instant you see yourself reflected in the
tall mirror. Then the light from the Talisman strikes
you, filling your vision, burning your brain,
shnvelling your eyes, searing the skin on your face.

Even Senvakhaz is a little perturbed by the manner
of your death — particularly the letters ‘Lore’

branded across your face.
358

358
The girl darts into one of the tiny alleyways that

wind down to squalid riverside hovels. You rave
after her, slipping on the rotting refuse strewn all
over the cobbles, and skid to a halt when you realize
that your quarry has disappeared. A shrill voice
yells “Get ‘im!’ — and from half a dozen dingy
doorways ragged children emerge and surround
you. They are small and half-starved, but they are
waving sharp knives and they mean business.
Three move closer, and attack you simultaneously.

SKILL STAMINA
First MURDEROUS

URCHIN 3 3
Second MURDEROUS

URCHIN 4 2
Third MURDEROUS

URCHIN 4 4

All three attack you in each Attack Round, but you
can attack only one. You choose which one, and
fight him in the usual way. You roll for your Attack
Strength against the other two as well, but you
cannot wound them even if your Attack Strength is
greater. If any of the urchins has an Attack Strength
sreater than yours, he wounds you in the normal
way- If you win, you have a chance to Escepe (turn to
149); if you would rather stay to fight the second
group of homicidal children, turn to 156.

359-360

You leave the armoury, return to the redly glowing
passage, and decide where to go next. At this end of
the corridor is the smaller of the two wooden doors.
Tt has no lock, and if you have not already done so,
you can try to open it (turn to 373). At the other end
of the passage is the larger wooden door with the
large metal lock. H you have not already opened this
door and you have a key, you can use the key to
open it {turn to 7), Otherwise, there seems to be no
other choice but to return along the side-tunnel to
your dungeon cell (turn to 206).

360

The door leads not toanother battlemented wall-top
walkway but to an enclosed corndor. Arrow-shits on
both sides reveal that the passage is set in the
thickness of the wall. Another door at its far end
opens into the empty ground-floor chamber of one
of the gatehouse towers of the Keep. Through
arrow-slits in the opposite wall you can sec that the
entrance to the Keep itself is unguarded. The port
cullis is raised and the drawbridge is in place over
the ravine that separates the gatehouse from the
Keep itself. Within minutes you locate the exit from
the tower, cross the drawbridge and find yourselfin
{front of the main entrance to the Keep — at Baron
Tholdur’s front door. Will you hammer on the tim-
bers and demand entrance {iurn to 311), or will you
look for a way to break in surreptitiously (fur to
28)?

;

362

361
When he sees you emerge from behind the curtain,
the little Gnome hurriedly puts down his tray and
backs away nervously towards the door. He opens
his mouth to cry out and you decide to finish him
quickly.

PAGE-BOY GNOME

By the end of one Attack Round the noise of your
tight has attracted the attention of the owner uf the
harsh guttural voice. The door swings open to re-
veal 2 mountainous female Ore, dressed in blood-
stained white overalls and wielding a meatcleaver.
The Gnome runs away, and you have just enough
time to see that the room beyond the Orc is a
smoke-filled kitchen before she attacks.

ORC COOK
IF vou defeat her, turn te 24.

SKILL4 STAMINA

SKILLS STAMINA 10

362-364

362
You are amazed to find that a faint blue lumines-
cence is flickering along the barbs of the strange
three-pronged weapon. You scrape off some of the
encrusted dirt and nast, and there is enough light to
see by. ‘he light weakens as you point the spear-
head to the ceiling, but strengthens if you direct it
towards the floor. You kick aside the mouldy straw
and notice that several of the flagstones are ill-fitting
and could, with some effort, be prised up. Perhaps

the trident is indicating a possible escape-route? If

you decide to try to raise some flagstones, turn to Bo.
If you would rather sit in your cell and wait for
something to happen, turn to 206.

363
Senyakhaz has set the mirror to destroy itself. You
try to step into the reflective surface, and find

yourself pushing into a viscous, dinging swirl of

colours. Your intrusion speeds the process of des-
truction: the frame turns white-hot and then bursts
asunder in molten blobs, Only half of your charred
body is later found on the floor of this room; the
other half is lost in limba, or perhaps it followed
Senyakhaz to her safe refuge.

364
You run. With shouts of ‘Stop him! He's a thief!
echoing about your head you push your way
through the milling crowds. As you try to escape
fram the scene of your crime, you are tripped,
grabbed, pushed and punched. You lose all sense of

365

direction and 2 points of Sra MINA, but you finally
emerge into the open space of the market-square.
You race across itand pause ina side-street; the hue
and cry seems to have died away.

You will not be welcomed in the Merchants’ Quarter
again! You decide to investigate a different part of
town. You can go anywhere you have not already
visited. If you climb Castle Hill to Neuburg Keep,
turn to 289. If you go down to the wharves and
warehouses at the river, turn to go. If you wander
into the Temple Quarter, turn (0 195.

365
Being thrown against a wall costs you 3 points of
STAMINA, but the shock restores your wits. You are
angry now. Xakhaz, with his repulsive home-made
body, has a fight on his hands. Turn to 167.

cd

i nt Ry

a (sat I
Ni

Me

366-367

366

Using the thick iron hoops as finger and toe holds,
you climb the side of the great barrel. You grasp the
leather handle of the lid and pull mightily, Throw-
ing the lid te one side, rou look down into the barrel
—to find your horrified gaze met by the lifeless stare
of dozens of pairs of unblinking eves. The barrel is
full of heads, floating like shriveled balloons in
acid brown preserving-fluid. You lose 1 point of
WILLPoOweR as the full implications of your recent
drink sink in. If you now haye less than 6 points of
WILLPOWER, turn to 39. If you still have 6 points or
more, turn to 286.

367

Swallowing your revulsion, you attack the decaying
Chrabats. Their movement is inexorable bul pon-
derous, and you can face them one ata time. Asthey
are already dead they feel no pain and must be
dismembered: therefore each wound you inflict re-
duces your opponent's STAMINA by half the usual
amount

SKILL STAMINA

First ZOMBIE CHRABAT 5 5
Second ZOMBIE

CHRABAT 4 7
Third ZOMBIE CHRABAT 6 3

Each time a Chrabat wounds you, roll hyo dice. If
the total is higher than your current SKILL, you have
failed to ev ade the Chrabat’s tentacular tongue and
it hinders your movement. Your next successful
368-369

attack on the creature will sever its tongue, and that
particular Chrabat will not be able to entangle you
again. However, until you succeed in this attack
your SKILL is reduced by 2 points. If you destroy
them all, hirn to 302.

368

The old priest leads you to the door of the temple
and bids you farewell. “There is little point in de-
laying your perilous quest; somewhere in Neuburg
is a broken fragment of a once potent weapon, and!
would not be at all surprised if it were buried among
the wares of some curio dealer. The Merchants’
Quarter is nothing but a den of thieves. Avoid the
riverside, it is an unsavoury place. Return to the
centre of town, and go to face the dangers of
the Keep. Oiden’s blessings go with you.” Turn to
108.

369
The sentry lies dead at your feet. The old Dwarf has

run away, perhaps because he heard the noise you
are now suddenly aware of: the marching feet of a
contingent of soldiers. You can step into the wait-
ing-room that the Dwarf wanted you to enter (turn
lo 249), Or you can scurry along the narrow corridor
near the main door (turn to 87).

370-371

You hurtle along the corridor — into absolute dark-
ness. A few painful collisions with rock walls per-
suade you to moderate your speed, and you make
your way forward as best you can with your arms
outstretched in front of you. And then you take a
step — and the floor has gone. You topple into a
chasm, and as you fall you know that the impact of
your landing will kill vou. You are wrong. You land
on a soft, viscous surface, a bit like thick mud, and
you have just enough time to offer thanks to your
gods before the awful realization that the ooze is
creeping over you and that vour extremilies are
being eroded by the digestive juices of the subterra-
nean jelly-creature on which you have landed. lt
enjovs its unexpected meal.

You have found the inner sanctum of the red-robed
wizard ~ leader of the southern troops, enchanter of
Baron Tholdur, resurrector of ancient evil in the
deep caverns below Neuburg Keep. She is Sen-
yakhaz, a sorceress from old Zagoula — and you
have arrived too late to prevent her escape. As you
enter, She picks up a small box, steps towards a tall
mirror, waves at you, walks into the mirror and
disappears. The frame of the mirror begins to glow
and lose its shape. if you try to follow her through
the mirror, turn to 363- If you decide to leave the
room, turn to 169.
372-373

372
You wake up. What fime is it? It is still dark; no

daylight fills the cracks in the shutters. You shudder
as you remember: you were dreaming, a terrible
nightmare of horrors lurking in dark places deep
below the ground.

And then, like an echo of your dream, an appalling
yelping rends the quict of the night — ight outside
your windosv! Silence follows; and then the sound
af a cumbersome creature slinking away. You lie
awake, but hear nothing more. Eventually you
sleep again. ‘Turn to 245.

73
AS soon as you touch it, the litle wooden door
swings open, You stoop to peer into the room
beyond, but can see very little. Gripping your
weapon, you advance through the doorway. Turn
to 255.

374-375

374
You are in a circular room criss-crossed with racks

and shelves. It is the Margrave’s treasury, and it
has been ransacked. Boxes have been broken open
and scrolls lie all over the floor. You can find no
valuables; all the papers are maps, letters, title-
deeds and records of rent payments. At the side of
the room vou find the entrance and exit used by the
thieves — a narrow spiral staircase corkscrewing
downwards. Near by is the wooden cover that,
when in position, conceals the entrance to the stair-
way. The only thing of immediate value that has
been left in the room is a small barrel bearing a label
Saying “PoTION’; it was left behind presumably
only because it is secured to the wall.

If you take a swig from the potion barrel, turn to 98.
If you decide to go straight down the stairs, you find
yourself spiralling downwards for what seems like
an eternity until you crash into a door. Dizzy and in
complete darkness, you pull the door open and step
into a dimly lit corridor. You walk towards the
brighter end. Turn to 4o.

375
The old Dwarf turns the three-pronged spear-head

over and over in his hands. ‘I do believe,’ he says,
‘that what you have here is the sharp end of the
Trident of Skarlos. Whether it’s of any use to you
depends on whether you can find the handle -
which is somewhere in the depths of the Keep, by
all accounts. You'll recognize it easily enough: it's
376-378

not a proper spear-shaft, but a short squat affair
with hand grips. Made of metal, with a blue sheen
like the head, and covered in carvings like it, too.
Strange device it is, but effective? 1 should say so!
That was a real battle we fought up here before this
castle was built ...’ The Dwarf stares into the
distance, remembering — but suddenly recalls that
he has more information for you. Turn to 396.

3

A short corridor leads you tea landing, lit by a single
cresset. You lean over the balustrade and see the
staircase wind steeply dawn from the cormdor and
disappear into darkness. From the landing. the
corridor continues featurelessly, and also dic
appears into gloom. If you decide to go down the
Stairs, turn to 300. If you would rather continue
straight along the corridor, tum to 40.

377
Having spent as much time as you think necessary
in the riverside section of Neuburg, vou can now
explore any other part of the town that you have not
already visited:

The Temple Quarter Turn to 195

The Merchants’ Quarter Tur to 32

Neuburg Keep Turn to 289
378

As the bearer of the Tident of Skarlos, you know a
little about the legendary hero, and you donct think
that your bulky opponent resembles him. The real

379-380

Skarlos would in any case recognize his own
weapon, would he not? The Trident, meanwhile, is
pulsing with energy and is thrusting forward of its
own accord, apparently keen to get to grips with the
strange warrior. If you decide to evade the warrior’s
advance and taunt him in the hope of obtaining
more information, turn to 180, Otherwise, you fight
(turn to 242).

379

You are not challenged again as you tread carefully
from step to step towards the pale blue light at the
bottom of the stairway. The twenty-third stair felt
like all the others when you tested it with your foot;
but when you put your weight on it, it collapses.
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 142. If you
are Unlucky, turn to 60.

380
The green liquid is almost tasteless and seems very
refreshing. Unfortunately it is concentrated magical
fertilizer. You watch in helpless horror as roots
sprout through your boots and hungrily penetrate
the soil. You feel no pain as green-leaved shoots
emerge from your arms and torso. Your thoughts
become strange, disturbed, and no longer truly
human. You are a very healthy young tree and,
unless someone chops you down or sets fire to you,
you will grow in this garden for hundreds of years.

381-384

381
You break the box under your heel. It contains a
diamond, several fragments of glass, a twisted piece
of metal, and some fine white sand. It was the
control mechanism which transformed Senya-
khaz’s mirror into a magical portal connected to her
southern homeland and to the abysmal caverns
below Neuburg Keep where she has resurrected the
insane and aeons-old sorcerer Xakhaz. Naw that
you have destroyed the box, Xakhaz is safe to
pursue his horrific experiments and to plot the
subjugation of Neuburg. You have merely post-
poned the day of reckoning.

382
Back inside your pack, the glass globe cools rapidly.
You decide to try to open one of the doors. Will you
choose the massive metal one (turn to 243), the
small wooden one (turn to 373), or the larger
wooden door to your right (hirn to 55)?

383
‘Best meat pies this side of Kelther!’ the burly shop-
keeper assures you, as he wraps your selection in a
scrap of parchment. You hand over 1 Gold Piece and
place the three meals in your backpack. Make a note
of this exchange on your Adzeniure Sheet, and turn to
280.

334
You rest the tray on a ledge and lift the lid from the

tarthenware pot. Inside you find a thick, steaming
meat stew and a wooden spoon. You taste it care

385

fully; you decide that the meat is mutton. It tastes
very good. You can now leave the stew and the tray;
or you can eat the stew — it will restore up to 4 points
of STAMINA — and leave the tray; or you can carry
the tray and the pot along the corridor; or if you
have any Orcsbane, you can season the stew with
this powerful poison and then set off with it along
the corridor, Make a note of your decision.
Whichever course of action you choose, you walk
along the cormdor away from the large wooden
door. Turn to 267.

335

You back away in horror. Remember to deduct 1
point of wittPoweR from your Adventure Sheet.
You scramble up the semi-liquid slope with slither-
ing limbs clutching at your ankles. The creature in
the pool cannot leave its watery lair, and you are
able to dreg your mud-covered body on ta drier
ground. You emerge from the tower into the gar-
den, and you can choose to continue to follow the
perimeter path (turn to 11) or to cut a path to the
central clearing (turn to 31g).

386-387

386

You despise your pitiful ambition to assist the
people of Neuburg. They are puny fools who are
unworthy of your attention and arc fit only to be
slaves. You have greater concerns: an army to rais¢,
enemies to slaughter, an empire to reconquer. Im-
ages of revenge, bloodshed and hatred fill your
thoughts, You are Vlax the Slayer, and if you man-
ave to extricate yourself from this dungeon you will
bathe your sword in blood until entire continents
knecl before you. But your previous adventure ends
here.

87

The door swings open i you are looking into 4
long storeroom. Boxes and barrels are stacked along
the walls, and there are quantities of foodstuffs
lying on a wooden table. There is another door,
alongside the one you are looking through. You
enter and examine ihe contents of the room. Most of
the boxes and barrels contain food, and there are
also some bundles of cloth. If you want to cat some
of the available provisions, you find that the food is
of excellent quality. Restore up to 4 points of sta-
MINA, if you need to. If you now decide to try to go
through the other door from this room, turn lo 115.
If you would rather go back out to the anteroom and
try the right-hand door from there, turn to 6.

388

The wedges are difficult to remove and you are
wormed about the amount of noise you are making,
but finally you pull them free and listen. You can
hear nothing at all from either end of the main
passage, or from behind the door, You pull the door
open and walk through. The side-tunnelis darkand
soon narrows. In some places you have to squeeze
between its rocky sides. Increasingly, the way
slopes downsvards, and although the walls are still
very damp, the air is now warm and humid. Un-
identifiable odours drift up from the depths ahead,
as does an iitatingly high-pitched squeaking. Lf
you want to turn back and continue along the main
passage, turn to 248- If you decide to continue down
towards the warm smells and the squeaking, turn to
272.

349

389
‘Congratulations! You haye found Xakhaz, the im-
mortal, the invincible, lord of this miserable ant-hill
and soon to be lord of all Khul. Do you like my little
workroom? Come in, come in, you lovk a healthy
specimen and I can always use an extra pair of
hands - . .“ The voice trails off into demented gig-
ging. You are sure it comes from near the enormous
heap of limbs, some of which are twitching. You
step towards the towering pile. ‘I have slept for
many centuries, but have forgotten nothing. The
descendants of those who imprisoned me here will
all die — quickly, if they grovel for mercy. All will
make a useful contribution, hawever — they are the
raw material for my army of conquest. You have
probably met some of my creations. Ingenious, are
they not? Practice makes perfect! And ever since
Senyakhaz woke me | have followed a programme
of intensive self-improvement!’ You have found
Xakhaz at last — his wild-eyed head is nodding al
you over the huge pile of limbs. Or can it be . - . ?
You groan and cover your eyes as you realize that
the heap of twitching limbs is Xakhaz. It begins to
scuttle towards you on an assortment of legs. Test
your Willpower. The Talisman of Loth, if you have it,
helps you in your hour of need. Its pure light gives
you courage — add 2 poimts to your WILLPOWER for
this test only. If you are successful, turn to 201, If
not, tiirn to 310.

399-391
39°

Twa robed warriors, looking impassive and very

out of place, are standing in a dear space on a
nearby street corner — and they are staring straight
at you.

But you don’t have time to worry about them: you
glance down and see a hand closing around the
purse hanging from your belt, and another hand,
holding a short sharp knife, about to cut the draw-
string. You spin round, drawing your sword, and
face the sneak-thief, It is a waif-like litile girl, no
more than nine years old! You are at a loss to know
what to do; and the girl lunges at you with the knife,
You ate taken by surprise, and she cuis you: lose z
pointofstTamina, You must fight her:

GAMINE THIEF SKILL 4

After one round of combat, the girl escapes into the
crowd. Looking around, you realize that the two
warriors are no longer insight. Do you want to iry to
follow the girl (farn to 358)? Or will you continue
your quest for food (turn to 149)?

STAMINA 3

391
Some time passes, and then one of the doors begins
ta open, You ready your weapon, but standing in
the doorway is an unarmed serving-maiden, who
recoils on seeing your aggressive stance. In a hesi-
tant, southern-accented voice, she murmurs: “My
name is Senya. The Margrave’ s chief adviser has
been expecting you and is anxious to meet you.
Please follow me to the reception room.’ With a

392

jingle of jewellery and a flurry of fragrant silks she
turns; you follow. In a small anteroom two other
serving-gitls smile at you as you pass. There are
doors fo the left and right. You follow Senya
through the right-hand doorway and into a luxu-
mous chamber. Senya gently pushes you into a
comfortable chair and kneels before you, smiling
beautifully, She is wearing a silver necklace from
which hangs a magnificent ruby pendant. “You are
very tired,’ she says sympathetically. ‘You need to
relax. Stay here for a while. You don't need ta
move.’ If you are holding the Trident of Skarlos,
turn to 238. If not, turn to 174-

392

The mysterious red-robed figure continues to
prompt Baron Tholdur, who rapidly finds the sub-
ject boring. He readily agrees that you should be
taken down to the dungeons, and makes it clear that
he has no interest in what happens to you after that.
Ten guards escort you from the Great Hall and
down a series of narrow staircases. Atone pointyou
reach a dark underground gallery; half of the escort
contingent has already started dawn the next set of
spiral stairs, and the other half is coming down
stairs behind you. You havea slim chance to escape,
although vou do not know how far you will get in
the darkness. If you want to sprint along the pas-
sage into the dark, turn to 88. If you continue to
follow your captors, turn to 227.

393-394

393

As easily as walking through a doorway, you take
one step and join the horde of people dragging
themselves towards the temple under a mercilessly
hot sun. Mast of the crowd are swarthy, robed
Southerners, bul you see another figure wearing
armour like yours, and you push your way towards
him. ‘I was a captain in the Margrave’s guard,” he
tells you. ‘T fell for the tapestry tick ton — trying to
escape from those foreign devils the Baron brought
back with him, and here 1 am surrounded by ‘em!
This is the Temple of Dolod, in the desert outside
Zagoula. Don’t even think of getting away — you'd
be cut down by this mob in seconds, and anyway
we're surrounded by desert. We've got to go along
with the crowd, although from what I've heard we'll
be lucky not lo be chosen as one of the sacrifices.
The priests of Dolod know that picking on outsiders
is popular.” Even if you avoid being chosen as a
sacrifice, you are a long way from Neuburg and in
the midst of hostile people. Your adventure ends
here.

4
You step into the tower's dark interior and the door
Slams shut behind you. You spin round, drawing
your sword, and with a gurgling roar a ferocious
creature attacks you. There is no source of light in
this room, and you have no idea what you are
fighting. Luckily, it keeps up a constant throaty
growl which helps you to locate it. Its weapon

395-396

seems to be a heavy blunt object, and it is hindered
by the darkness almost as much as vou.

UNKNOWN

ASSAILANT SKILL 5 STAMINA 8

if you defeat it, you pull open the door to throw
some light on the dead body. lt is a very ugly Ogre,
dressed in rags and wearing a huge white bonnet or
turban on its relatively small head. There is nothing
else in the room except for a flight of stone steps
leading up to a small door. Will you:

Try on the oversized headgear? Turn to 133
Inspect the headgear first? Turn to 209
Climb the stairs? Turn to 52

395

You are paralysed with fear and disgust, You take a
detached interest in the progress of the spiders vver
your body. You are aware that they are searching for
exposed flesh into which to sink their mandibles,
but this does not seem particularly important. [he
shocks you have experienced since arriving in
Neuburg have robbed you of your sanity, and you
feela sense of liberation as the spiders’ Icthal venom
begins to bur in your veins. You collapse to the
ground and stare skywards as you die.

3
Pushing aside a cobwebbed collection of bean-
poles, trellises and bales of straw, the Dwarf reveals
397-398

a grimy fireplace in a corner. He calls you over, and
show's you that as well asa chimney leading straight
upwards, thereis also a narrow gap at the side of the
grate. You can just make out the first few steps of a
staircase leading downwards in the thickness of the
tower wall.

‘This’ll take you into the cellars,’ says the Dwarf.
‘It's probably the only way you'll get into the Keep
without someone else knowing about it. But you
can go through the other door and try getting across
on the battlements if you want to-’

If you svant to use the secret passage to the cellars,
tum to 25, If you decide to go through the door and
out on to the battlements, turn to 282.

You race across the courtvard and throw yourself at
the gate. It doesn’t budge. Ina frenzy, you charge at
it asain; you tug at the iron hinges in desperation.
You are unable to open the gate. You turn to face
your pursuers and make a heroic last stand against
insuperable odds.

398
Huw leads you into a circular hall where he
genuflects at the trunk of a spindly white-branched
tree that twists upwards from the centre of the stone
floor. He then ushers you into a camped side-
chamber. You sit on a low stool, and find Huw
standing beside you—halding a knife to your throat.
*Be still and listen!’ he hisses. ‘1 rescued you from

399

the dungeon of the East Gate because | suspect you
may be the warrior that Oiden has foretold will
arrive to challenge the evil in this town. If you are
the prophesied hero, you have with you a valuable
treasure that links you to Neuburg. You must
donate the treasure to this temple in order tu obtain
Oiden’s assistance. If you are indeed the chosen
one, give me the item rout! Neubure’s peril increases
hourly” Concealed in your belt you have a jewel-
encrusted guld ring given to you many years ago by
Baron Thoidur. It is your most valued possession.
Huw turns away. Will you:

Offer him Baron Tholdur’s ring? Tum to 344
Say that you have no such treasure? Turn to 191
Attack him with your sword? Turn to 86

39

You attack the dour with your shoulder and your
sword. Suddenly it opens. You stagger through the
doorway and slump to the dusty ground to catch
your breath in the shadow of the dilapidated tower.
You realize that your captors could retwm al any
moment, and you decide to try to find shelter in the
town. Picking yourself up, you head straight for the
Southern Star tavern, which you remember as a
large, hospitable establishment ina prominent posi-
tion on the market-square. Turn to 119,

400

400

You step out into the chamber of the sorceress
Senyakhaz. This room and the others in the suite are
deserted, and you take the opportunity to rest, eat
and recover your strength. Then you make your
way through the corridors of the dungeons and
cellars to the main floor of the Keep, where you find
Baron Tholdur, no longer under an enchantment,
energetically ejecting the demoralized southern sol-
diers from his castle. Between tears and laughter he
overwhelms you with praise and thanks, and insists
on escorting you to the Temple of Oiden so that the
old priest Huw can share in the good news. When
you have recounted your story, Huw merely smiles.
He asks for the small metal box, which he says
contains the immortal part of Xakhaz. You hand it
over with alacrity, and Huw assures the Margrave
that this time Xakhaz will be imprisoned in a place
from which he will never escape. Whether or not
you found it during the course of your adventure,
Huw tells you that the Trident of Skarlos is now
yours by right. And ata public celebration attended
by all the townsfolk of Neuburg, Baron Tholdur
announces to terrific cheers that he appoints you to
be his heir in all things; on his death you will inherit
the Keep, the freehold of the town, most of the
surrounding farmland, forests and hunting estates
in the hills to the east, and the title of Margrave.

At last you have your chance to enjoy the comforts
of town living. But, of course, after only a few days
of banquets and soft beds, you find yourself getting
bored. It’s time to set off on another adventure , . .

ARMNES OF
~ DEATH

AMPIRE

(es

