FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS -

Over 10 million copies sold worldwide!

An ancient e% is Stirring!

The long-dead sorcerer Razaak has been
awoken and is poised to fulfil his dreams
death and tyranny. The Forces of Chaos af
large across Allansia and it seems that they
all pitted against YOU! For it is up to you
hattle against the odds — to find the only weape
to Which Razaak is vulnerable, to arm yours
vith protections against his awesome powers
ind to face him in his aig, the Crypt of the

Sorcerer!
are story, pert game, this is a book in which
it! become the hero! Two dice, a pencil and

ve all you need, YOU decide which
tee to tole, which dangers to risk and which
howe to fight.

i (fliateve (det bre Lew Lilwerds

In

9 "780140"32 1

PUFFIN BOOKS

CRYPT OF THE SORCERER

An ancient evil is stirring in the bowels of the earth, and the
lard is blighted. The dread sorcerer Razaak has been re-
awoken and is poised to fulfil his dreams of death and
tyranny. He is vulnerable only to his long-lost sword, but he
has an awesome range of powers. It will be an epic quest to
find the sword, defeat the forces ranged against you and face
Razaak himself. There are artefacts to find, without which
failure is certain, and there are friends on the way; but above
all you will need to find your own courage and resource-
fulness. Do you dare to travel the wastes and forests of
Allansia, and ultimately to battle Razaak in his lair?

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you need to embark
on this thrilling adventure, which is complete with jts elabo-
rate combat system and a score sheet to record your gains
and losses.

Many dangers lie ahead and your success is by no means
certain, YOU decide which routes to follow, which dangers
to risk and which adversaries to fight!

lan Livingstone is the co-founder, with Steve Jackson, of
Games Workshop, the hugely successful chain which spe-
cializes in fantasy games of all kinds,

Colour map by Leo Hertes
Fighting Fantesy Gassrbooks

THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOT MOUNTAIN
THE CITADEL OF CHAOS

THE FOREST OF DOOM
STARSHIr TRAVELLER

CITY OF THIEVES
DEATHTRAP DUNGEON
ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING
SCORPION SWAMT

CAVERNS OF THE SNOW WITCH
HOUSE OF HELL

TALISMAN OF DEATH

STAC ASSASSIN

FREEWAY FIGHTER

TEMPLE OF TERROR

THE RINGS OF KETHER

SEAS OF BLOOD
ATTOINTMENT WITH F.E.A.F
RESEL PLANET

DEMONS OF THE DEEF
SWORD OF THE SAMURAI
TRIAL OF CHAMPIONS
kO#OT COMMANDO

MASKS OF MAYMEM
CREATURE OF HAVOC
NENTATH NIGHTMARE CASTLD
CRYPT OF THE SORCERER
STAR STRIDER

THANTOMS OF FEAR
MIDNIGHT ROGUE

CHASMS OF MALICE
NATTLENLADE WARRIOR
SLAVES OF THE AtYss

SKY LORD

STEALER OF SOULS

DAGGERS OF DARKNESS
ARMIES OF DEATH

Steve Jackson's Sorcery!

1. The Shamutanti Hills

2. Kharé — Cityport of Traps
3} The Seven Serpents

4. The Crown of Kings

FIGHTING FANTASY = The Introductory Role-playing Ganw
THE RIDDLING REAVER

OUT OF THE PIT — Fighting Fantasy Moczters

TITAN — The Fighting Fantasy Workd

lan Livingstone

CRYPT OF THE

SORGERER

Illustrated by John Sibbick

PUFFIN BOOKS
PUFFIN 300KS
ahscnce spelt atid tigg™e
2? Wrights Lene, Lowen <6 str, Bygand
Viking Penguin Joc., 4c: Wese =yrd Strece. New York, Mew York soem, USA
Tenguon Pooks Awetralta Lic, Mingwiaad, Views Agetreke
Vengy.in Roaks Canacs. Ltd, Bor fale, Stowe, Markham Ortuo, Canaca + rg
Penguin books O87) Lid, sfirra> Wary Road, Auddend 11. New Fasiere

Verguin Hooks Und, Registered Cullocs Harardswurh Middle kngians
First podthehed 2997

TTSEcaBsy

Coperyht oS “an Lovngntone, 196)
Mewtranrons pond Copyagel GS lone SOBA. a
tap coorright 2) Len Harts, sof
AD nghts reserves

Pantec 24 S000 ie Gret Rete by
Can & Wyman Lic,

Typeset in is aspt Linowan Pauetion by
Kowliaod mur Lae

Bate St Felomunds.

Lixcept tt the Unico! State of 2rrence.
this Leese i+ voted sthject ts the condibos
what = shell not, by way od Wade ce uthererine,
be lent, re-s0id, hirdd Out, ur aathwmrine cocainted
Without she pablishe's prist comeral mm any lone of
binwing: cr cove: other thom thal ia hie 4

Toall Puffin warriors, especially Anne Ainley,
Liz Allenborough. Susan Brent, Susan Flhintt,
Robin Waterfield and Annie Winterbotham
CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION
9

ADVENTURE SHEET
6
BACKGROUND
8

CRYPT OF THE SORCERER
5
INTRODUCTION

Sefore embarking on your adventure, you must first
determine your own strengths and weaknesses.
Use dice to determine your initial scores. On pages
16-17 there is an Adventure Sheet which you may use
to record the details of an adventure. On it you will
find boxes for recording your SKILL, STAMINA and
LUCK scores.

You are advised to either record your scores on the
Adventure Sheet in pencil, or make photocopies of
the sheet to use in future adventures.

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter this
total in the sK1Lt box on the Adventure Sheet,

Roll both dice. Add 12 to the number rolled and
enter this total in the sTAMINA box.

There is also a tUcK box. Roll one die, add 6 to this
murmber and enter this total in the Luck box.

For reasons that will be explained below, sKitt,
STAMINA and LUCK scores change constantly dur-
ing an adventure. You must keep an accurate record
of these scores and for this reason you are advised
either to write small in the boxes or ty keep an eraser
handy. But never rub out your initial scores.
Although you may be awarded additional sxiLt,
STAMINA and LUCK points, these totals may never
exceed your Initud scores, except on very rare
occasions, when you will be mstrocted on a
particular page.

Your SKILL score reflects your swordsmanship and
general fighting expertise; the higher the better.
Your STAMINA score reflects your general Constitu-
tion, your will to survive, your determination and
overall fitness; the higher your $7 AMINA score, the
longer you will be able to survive. Your Lucx score
indicates how naturally lucky 2 person you are.
Luck — and magic — are facts of life in the fantasy
kingdom you are about to explore.

Battles

You will often come across pages in the book which
instruct you to fight a creature of some sort. An
option to flee may be given, but if not — or if you
choose to attack the creature anyway - you must
Tesolve the battle as described below.

First record the creature's sxii1 and STAMINA
soores in the first vacant Monster Encounter Box on
your Adventure Sheet. The scores for each creature
are given in the book cach time you have an
encounter.

The sequence of combat is then:
1. Roll both dice once for the creature. Add its

1m

SKILL score. This total is the creature's Attack

Strength.

Roll both dice once for yourself, Add the number

rolled to your current SKILL score. This total is

your Attack Strength.

3. If your Attack Strength is higher than that of the
creature, you have wounded it. Proceed to step
4. If the creature's Attack Strength is higher than
yours, it has wounded you. Proceed to step 5. If
both Attack Strength totals are the same, you
have avoided each other's blows — start the next
Attack Round from step 1 above,

4. You have wounded the creature, ‘so subtract 2
points from its sTAMINA score, You may use
your LucK here to do additional damage (sce
over).

5. The creature has wounded you, so subtract 2
points from your own STAMINA score. Again
you may use LUCK at this stage (see over).

6. Make the appropriate adjustments to either the

creature's or your Own STAMINA scores (and

your LUCK score if you used LUCK - see over).

Begin the next Attack Round by returning to

your current SKILL score and repeating steps

1-6. This sequence continues until the STAMINA

score of either you or the creature you are

fighting has been reduced to zero (death).

"

«J
,

Fighting More Than One Creature

i you come across more than one creature in a
perticular encounter, the instructions on that page

it
will tell you how to handle the battle. Sometimes
you will treat them as a single monster, sometimes
you will fight each one in turn.

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either in
battles or when you come across situations in which
you could either be lucky or unlucky (details of
these are given on the pages themselves), you may
call on your luck to make the outcome more favour-
able. But beware! Using luck is a risky business and
if you are unlucky, the results could be disastrous.

The procedure for using your luck is as follows: roll
two dice. If the number rolled is equal to or less than
your current !.UCK SCORE, you have been lucky and
the result will go in your favour. If the number
rolled is higher than your current LUCK SCORE, you
have been unlucky and you will be penalized.

This procedure is known as Testing your Luck, Each
time you Tesi your Luck, you must subtract 1 poimt
from your current LUCK score. Thus you will soon
realize that the more you rely cn your luck, the more
risky this will become.

Using Luck in Battles

On certain pages of the book you will be told to Test
your Luck and will be told the consequences of your
being lucky or unlucky. However, in battles, you
always have the option of using your luck either to

12

inflict a more serious wound on a creature you have
just wounded, or to minimize the effects of a wound
the creature has just inflicted on you.

i you have just wounded the creature, you may Tesf
your Luck as described above. if you are lucky, you
have inflicted a severe wound and may subtract an
extra 2 points from the creature's STAMINA score.
However, if you are unlucky, the wound was a mere
graze and you must restore 1 point to the creature's
STAMINA (ie. instead of scoring the normal 2
points of damage, you have now scored only 1).

if the creature has just wounded you, you may Test
your Luck to try to minimize the wound. If you are
lucky, you have managed to avoid the full damage
of the blow. Restore 1 point of STAMINA (ie.
instead of doing 2 points of damage it has done only
1). If vow are unlucky, you have taken a more
serious blow. Subtract 1 extra STAMINA point.

Remember that you must subtract. Pome from your
own LUCK score each time you Tes? ss Luck,

13
Restoring Skill, Stamina and Luck
Sill
Your $k (11 score will not change much during your
adventure. Occasionally, a page may give instruc-
tions to increase Or decrease your SKILL score. A
Magic Weapon may increase your SKILL, but re
member thatonly one weapon can be used ata ime!
You cannot claim two SxrLt bonuses for carrying

two Magic Swords. Your SKILL score can never
exceed its Initial value unless specifically instructed.

Stammia
Your STAMINA score will change a loi during your
adventure as you fight monsters and under-
take arduous tasks. As you near your goal, your
STAMINA level may be ; low and battles
may be particularly risky, so be careful!

Unlike other Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks, you do
not start your adventure with Provisions. However,
during the course of the adventure, there will be
opportunities for you to regain STAMINA points In
various ways,

Remember also thal your STAMINA score may
never exceed its Initial value unless specifically
instructed on a page.

Luck

Additions to your LUCK score are awarded through
the adventure when you have been particularly
lucky. Details are given on the pages of the book.

Remember that, as with skit i.and sTaMIN A, your
LUCK score may never exceed its Initial value unless
Specifically instructed on a page.

45
NOTES TREASURE

, en

BACKGROUND

Chalice is a small town lying on the banks of Silver
River at the base of Moonstone Hills. It has grown
from being merely a cluster of cabins and huts to its
present size mainly because it became an important
trading centre for prospectors secking gold in the
hills. 1t was the first safe haven for merchants who
had travelled west from the Flatlands on their way
to Silverton. In Chalice they could rest and do
business without fear of attack. There are plenty of
inns and places of entertainment, and it used to be
among the most boisterous towns of Allansia.

But now, as you look out of the window of your
upstairs bedroom at the Lion inn, there is no sign of
merriment. For three weeks the sky has been dark
and menacing. People recently arriving in Chalice
from the east have told of pestilence, plague. dis-

ease and famine moving ever closer to the west.

Only yesterday a story spread like wildfire through
the town that someone had discovered where the
source of evil lay. An Elf, flying south on his Giant
Eagle over the southern edge of Moonstone Hills,
noticed a deep fissure in the ground, out of which
rose a putrid-smelling vapour. All around the
fissure the grass was blackened and the trees were
stunted and leafless. As he flew over the fissure, the
Elf said, he saw a scorched and withered hand rise

18

out of the gap, its claw-like index finger pointing up
at the eagle. An energy bolt shot up from the tip of
the finger and burned a hole straight through the
poor creature. It crashed to the ground, but the Elf
escaped with his life and walked to Chalice to tell his
tale.

You are a friend of the old wizard Yaztromo, who
ives on the southern edge of Darkwood Forest, and
you decide to visit him and relate the Elf’s tale. In
the now familiar dusky light of day, you spur your
horse northwards to Yaztromo’s tower and before
cushtfall vou reach the overgrown path that leads io
it. You dismount quickly, stride up to the huge oak
door and ring the brass bell that hangs in the stone
archway. There is no reply, but suddenly you are
tapped on the shoulder and you whirl around,
reaching for your sword.

There'll be no need for that!” grunts the old man
who stands before you, shaking his finger in
scmonishment, ‘What are you doing here anyway,
Gsturbing my peace and quiet? T haven't laid eyes
on you for over a year, and now you just turn up
snannounced, walk straight through my herb
garden and ring my bell long enough to wake the
dead. Well, what do you want?’

19
You smile to yourself, while you watch the grumpy
what's so funny?’ he asks. Your expression im-
mediately changes and Yaztromo frowns when he
sees the concerned look on your face. ‘1 think we
should go upstairs so that you can tell me what is
troubling you. | presume something 3 troubling
you, aslamsure you wouldn't visit me for any other
reason —and | can guess that it has something to do
with this infernal dark sky!

When you have finished telling Yaztromo the Elf’s
tale, he remains sitting silently in his old oak chair,
his face as sombre as a grave. At last he speaks,
sighing with every word. ‘Then my worst fears are
realized. The necromancer has risen. Those fools!
Their greed might now bring an end to life in
Allansia. Unless ..." Completely puzzled by
Yaztromo’s muttcrings, you ask him to explain. As
if describing a horrible nightmare, Yaztromo re-
counts the legend of the evil necromancer Razaak,
who threatened Allansia one hundred years ago.

Although he first learned his skills as an apprentice
io. a Lawful wizard, Razaak was attracted early on in
life by the dark power of Evil. He realized that he
could become a great sorcerer who would one day
be able to command everyone to obey him. He had
no desire or intention to use his magic to help
Allansia — he wanted the kingdom to be brought to
its knees, He travelled to a remote part of eastern
Allansia and there he ised his arcane acts. He
quickly progressed through the levels of dark magic

from lowly apprentice to wizard, and then sorcerer,
so that at last his powers were so great that he
became 2 necromancer, having spent the last forty
years in solitude. Razaak then sent messages to all
the nobles of Allansia, demanding that they ac-
knowledge him as their ruler. At first they ignored
him, for none had heard of him. Razaak took
umbrage, and in retaliation brought plague and
pestilence to the nobles’ provinces, piving them
until the next full moon to recognize his leadership.

Many warriors offered to try to slay Razaak, and
many died in the attempt. But one brave man by the
name of Kull succeeded, and saved Allansia. He
owned a sword which he had found in the Moon-
stone Hills, gripped by a skeletal hand rising from a
mist-covered lake, across which he was sailing a
raft. Kull was mesmerized by the sword’s magni-
Scent beauty. He immediately wanted it for his own
and reached out for it. The skeleton made no
attempt to prevent him, and simply slipped down
inte the muddy depths of the lake as soon as it
released the sword. Kull was so overwhelmed with
the sword that nothing else mattered to him. Te
steered his raft to the shore and began testing his
new weapon. Fle discovered that nothing could dull
ms edge, and that he could cut through plate-mail

21
armour with ease. He did not realize that the sword
had once belonged to Razaak, and was the only
weapon in the whole world with the power to slay
him. Razaak, in order to become a necromancer,
had had to relinquish all weapons, but there was no
power strong enough to destroy his cursed sword.
To try to rid himself of the sword, Razaak threw it
into the lake, but it rose to the surface in the grip of
the skeleton. For years the skeleton clutched the
sword until Kull caught sight of it and took it for
himself. And so a twist of fate took the invincible
Kull to Razaak, and Razaak was slain at the hand ol
Kull by the sword that had once been his own. But
the moment Razaak was slain, Kull's flesh fell fram
his bones and lay ina pile of dust around his skeletal
feet. Razaak’s magic had condemned him to an
eternal nightmare as a skeleton, unable to release
the sword.

He seized a hooded robe and fled into Moonstone
Hills, and it is said that to this day he drifts com
stantly across the same lake on his raft, dutching the
sword, unable to rest until someone takes it from
him. Razaak’s body was placed in 2 stone
sarcophagus and entombed in the fissure in the
southern hills. The erypt was sealed by a Lawful
sorcerer who decreed that it must remain unopened
(or one hundred and ten years, otherwise the necro-
mancer would rise with a host of undead to destroy
all life.

‘l can only assume,” concludes Yaztromo with a
deep sigh, ‘that treasure-hunters found the necro-
mancer’s crypt and opened it unknowingly, Razaak
must be destroyed before it is too late. Oh, but it’s
going to be so difficult. We'll need to find Razaak’s
sword and a number of talismans and amulets that
will protect you from the necromancer’s magic. , .T
trust you will volunteer for this mighty task?’

Slowly you nod your head, although your brain is
still spinning with Yaztromo’s tale of Razaak and
poor Kull. ‘Good,’ continues Yaztromo. “Now,
don’t worry about the sword: I won’tlet you become
2 skeleton. Just bring it back here and in the mean-
time I'll be calling on a few people who can help us.
There is no time to waste; you must find the lake in
Moonstone Hills. Rest well tonight and leave at first
light — what little of it there is... .'

NOW TURN OVER
1
You are woken, from a nightmare in which undead
creatures attack you with swords, by Yaztromo
tapping you on the shoulder. “[ime to get up, it's
almost dawn,” he says in a sleepy voice. Within
twenty minutes you are outside and mounted on
your horse. Yaztromo smiles, ever optimistic in the
tace of danger, and hands you a small glass phial.
Healing Potion,’ he explains. “Enough for five tots.’
(Note this on your Adventure Sfreet. The Healing
Potion will restore 4 STAMINA points each time it is
drunk. Make a note each time vou drink a tot.) The
old wizard then waves to you as you gallop off,
heading east towards Moonstone Hills in search of
the Lost Lake. By midday the hills rise up
threateningly from the horizon, flanking you from
north to south, and vou wonder how you will ever
find the lake. By nightfall you find yourself at the
toot of the hills where Silver River flows out on to
the Windwerd Plain towards Chalice, You decide to
cemp by the river and make a fire to keep you warm,

2-3

and also to ward off any hunters of the night. The
night passes without incident, and in the morning
you wake feeling hungry. After eating bread and
cheese from your backpack, you climb on to your
horse and decide which way to head- ff you wish to
wade across the river and ride east info the hills,
turn to 255. If you would rather follow the river
north up into the hills, turn to 146.

2
Three creatures soon come into view and you see
that they have the bodies of humans, but the heads
of rats. They are covered in short fur and have long,
rat-like tails; they have already picked up your
scent, and are ready to fight. The front Rat Man
whirls a sling around his head and releases a stone
down the tunnel. Roll one dic. lf you roll 1—3, turn to
133. If you roll 4—6, turn to 69.

3
The rock strikes you on the back of the head and
knocks you unconscious. One of the Rad-Hulks
twists your head sharply and breaks your neck. The
Rad-Hulks think less of your life than of your
sword, which they can present as a gift to their
master.

4-6

4
Your outstretched hands fail to grasp a branch and
you fall to your death. Borri and Symm watch on in
horror, but whether they complete the quest and
save Allansia is something you will never know.

5

‘Tr will not be long before Razaak raises all the dead
of Allansia to fill his army’s ranks with Zombies, It
will be a great day. | am beginning to believe you,
but I will ask you one more serious question,’ says
Ungoth, rising from his throne. “How old was
Razaak’s father when he died?’ If you know the
answer, turn to the number that was Tamal’s age. If
you do not know the answer, turn to 303.

ro 2

6
The Goblins charge up to the top of the hill, scream-
ME Manic war-cries. You jump back on to your
horse and ride into battle.

SKILL STAMINA
First GOBLIN 5 5
Second GOBLIN 5 6
Third GOBLIN 6 5
Fourth GOBLIN 6 6

Fight them one at a time. If you win, turn to 155.
7-8

7

When you reach the brow of the hill, you are sur-
prised at what you see. Three Wild Elf women are
attacking an adventurer who is wounded and on his
knees, defending himself desperately with his
sword. The Elf women have filed teeth and long,
sharp nails, and are adorned with body paint. They
wield flint clubs and knives, and are attacking the
man ferociously. If you wish to help the adventurer,
turn to 44. If you would rather leave him to his fate,
turn to 162.

8
You roll away from the lifeless Orc and spring to
your feet, sword drawn, to face the two remaining
Orcs who are bearing down upon you.

SKILL STAMINA
First ORC 6 6
Second ORC 6 5

Fight them both at the same time. Both will have a
separate attack on you in each Attack Round, but
you must choose which of the two you will attack as
in normal combat. Against the other you will roll for
your Attack Strength, but you will not wound it if
your Attack Strength is greater. You must just count
this as though you have defended against its blow.
Of course, if its Attack Strength is greater, it will
wound you. Thus, during an Attack Round, you
can only possibly wound one Orc, but you could
sulfer two wounds. If you win, turn to 243.
9-11

9
You land quietly on the floor. You are unable to see,
so you tap on the ground in front of you with your
sword. You discover that the lair is very small and is
empty apart from a metal object you find on the
floor. But you are unable to work out what it is by
touch. If you wish to take the metal object with you
when you climb out of the lair, turn to 130. If you
would rather climb out of the lair without it, turn to

169.

10

After placing the ring on your finger, you rub it,
hold it aloft, and even try to command if; but you are
unable to discover any magical powers in it. You
shrug your shoulders and consider what to do next.
If you have not dane so already, you muy either try
on the Dagger Ring {turn to 94} or try on the Skull
Ring {turn to 265). If you would rather ride east out
of the Valley of Bones, turn to 369.

i
As you plunge down towards the ground, a human
materializes beside you, golden and glowing. The
Suma simply smiles and says, T will save you now,
but | cannot help you again." It then disappears and,
much to your surprise, the Red Dragon returns and
flies underneath you, allowing you to drop on to its
back. The three of you scramble up on to its neck
and fly north-west — the Dragon-riders of Allansia.
Some time later, after Moonstone Hills come inte
view, the Red Dragon glides down to land. As soon

12-13

as you have dismounted, the Dragon flies off, leav-
mg you unharmed. You realize that it is only an
hour before sunset, and so you look around for
somewhere to sleep to be well rested to meet your
ultimate adversary. If you wish to sleep among the
nearby trees, turn to 257- If you wish to walk to the
edge of the hills to sleep, turn to 28.

12

The stone that Symm selects holds the curative
properties needed to combat the touch of an Ice
Ghost. Your body warms up and you regain con-
sSousness, only slightly the worse for the ordeal.
Lose 2 STAMINA points. Symm tells you what hap-
pened, saying that the Ice Ghosts disappeared
Gown the tunnel, having failed to touch either him-
self or Borri. Allis quiet, and you set off once more.
Turn to 245.

13
The strong poison acts quickly and you find yourself
unable to move a limb. You fall out of the saddle
head-first into the marsh and hear the hovering
Harpoon Flies land on top of you to lay their eggs.
You are stricken with terror at the prospect that it
wall be several days before you die a revolting death.

18

18

You catch sight of the figure again, running from
Sehind one tree to another. It is a little humanoid,
oe taller than a metre. He looks round, stops run-
ming and begins to walk towards you. You notice
that he has dark skin, pointed ears and cat-like eyes.
He also has wings. Just as you begin to wonder why
S= did not iy away from you, a weighted net falls on
fep of you and the boy-like figure starts to laugh
eens at you for falling into his trap. As you
to the ground, it dawns on you that you have
Siien prey to Black Fairies, the most evil of all the
Ete people. From the ground you look up through
Se mesh of the net and see three more Black Faines
hovering in the air. They land, and in less than a
minute you are bound hand and foot. They empty
wour backpack and take all its contents, including
Taztromo’s Healing Potion. They also take your
®eord. They then begin to amuse themselves by
pulting insects inside your clothes and slugs in your
South. Finally they get bored with their games and
Sy off with their spoils, leaving you at the mercy of

af predators. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn

42. Lf you are Unlucky, turn to 224-

19-20

19
You find a small wooden box tucked into the Trolt's
clothing. If you wish to open it, turn to 188. Alterna-
tively, you can either tip up the cart (turn to 366) or
walk on, leaving the box and the cart behind (turn to

40).

20

You manage to close the lid before the Rad-Hulk can
stop you, and the cave is plunged into total dark-
ness. But to your horror, you can still hear the
shuffling feet of the mindless Rad-Tiulks as they
continue to move towards you. Once charged by
light, they remain animated for at least an hour.
Now you must fight them ata severe disadvantage
in the dark.

SKILL STAMINA
First RAD-HULK 10 5
Second RAD-HULK 210 6

Fight them one at a time, but deduct 2 from your
Attack Strength during each Attack Round. If you
win, you may either walk back in the dark to your
horse (turn to 235), or open the box again (turn to
82).

21-23

21

itis not long before you are riding along the margin
of the wood again. If you wish to enter the wood,
turn to 225. If you would rather ride on towards
Stonebridge. turn to 363.

22

Symm and Borri are once again victorious, and your
respect for them as swordsmen continues to grow,
A search of the bodies reveals a bag of nuts, a sling
and some stones for shngshot. Borri asks for the
sling and stones, while Symm sniffs the nuts. ‘They
smell all nght to me, he says. If vou wish to eat the
nuts, turn to $42. If you would rather hurry out of
the tunnel, turn to 279.

23

The door of the hut appears to have been smashed
down, and you see hvo broken arrows lodged in the
panelling. You examine the arrows and see that
they are the type used by Goblins. A raiding party
must have attacked the fur-trapper. You step warily
into the hut and search its three rooms. You find a
hunting-knife still gripped by the hand of the dead
trapper, but the Goblins must have stolen every-
thing else. You tuck the knife in your belt and bury
the trapper before remounting your horse and
nding off. Turn to 53.

24-25

4

Without your even having to think about it, the
Chameleonite blood triggers a new defence
mechanism in your body. Your skin tums dark
green like the sludge in the pit. and the Gargants
suddenly loses sight of you altogether, and misses
with its daws, although it can still sense your pres-
ence. But Symm and Borri distract its attenbon by
loosing two arrows at the giant torso. The Gargants
howls in pain, although the arrows barely pierce its
tough hide. The Gargantis, however, has iis own
defence mechanism, and in reaction to the pain, 2
gland emits waves of menial energy of intense
power. If you are wearing 2 translucent crystal
around your neck on a gold chain, turn t0193- if you
are not wearing a crystal, turn tr 307.

25

You lift the lid of the chest with the tip of your sword
and stand back. Two large black rats immediately
jump out of the chest and run towards you. One
swipe of your sword cleaves the first in two, but the
second claws its way quickly up your leg, If you are
wearing armour, turn to 192- If your legs are not
protected, turn to 312.

.

As soon as you sit in the chair, iron bars shoot out of
the arms and across your lap, making it impossible
to move. A hissing voice comes from the mouth
above your head, saying, ‘What is your number?’ [f
you are wearing an identity tag, turn to the number

stamped on it. If you do not have an identity tag,
turn to 136.

27

The powerful arms of the Demon tighten around
your midriff and squeeze the life from your body.
The Demon then lumbers off, content that it has
found another source of matrients to feed the earth
of its beloved wood.

28
You reach the hills in less than twenty minutes, and
soon find a small cave in which to shelter. You fall
asicep, and wake not long after sunrise (add 2
STAMINA points). The sky is as dull and grey asever
and as you step outside the cave, you notice that all
the grass around is dead, and the trees looked
charred and blackened. Tt can’t be far to the fissure,’
29-39

says Borri as he steps outside to join you. Just
follow your nose.” ‘I can smell the stinking vapour
from here,’ agrees Symm as he emerges from the
cave. ‘Came on, follow me.’ As Symm strides off
uphill, Borri calls out that he can see a robed figure
walking towards the cave. If you wish to wait to
meet whoever is approaching, turn to 167. lf you
would rather follow Symm, turn to 313-

29

While riding down one of the last hills before the
jake, you notice a rusted iron box lying at the base of
a tree, If you wish to open the box, turn to 205. Ifyou
would rather press on towards the lake, turn to 339-

30
Some time later you see a hillock in the distance and
decide to take a look at it, since itis the only feature
in the flat landscape for miles around, When you get
close, you see what appears to be an entrance toa
tunnel, and can hardly nes — = sbdeee
idea was it ta go south?’ asks ina teasing :
on unload = balloon and hide it with the basket
in the entrance of the tunnel. You release the ox,

31-32

although it seems reluctant to wander off, being
more content to graze on the lush grass. As you
enter the tunnel, the irrepressible Dwarf says, T
can’t hear anything. I thought these tunnels were
supposed to howl.” ‘Let's wait until we get inside,
you short fat buffoon,’ laughs Symm. ‘Maybe when
you see the Gargantis beast, you'll start to howl!’
You draw your swords, light the torches that you
have brought with you, and walk guardedly down
tw tunnel. Five minutes later you arrive at a junc-
bon. Lf you wish to turn left, turn to 222. If you wish
to turn right, turn to go.

32

You peer into the darkness of the Hellcat’s lair, bul
cannot see anything. By lying on the floor and
reaching down with your sword, you can just touch
the bottom some two metres below. If you wish to
jump down into the lair, turn to g. If you would
rather walk down the narrow tunnel opposite, turn
to 297.

32

The cheese is dry and hard, but still nourishing,
Add 2 STAMINA points. After you have finished
eating, you decide which way to ride. lf you wish to
continue riding towards the wood, tum to 203. If
you would rather head cast up the hill, turn to 280.

33734

As you ride over the crest of the hill, your question is
quickly answered. The plume of smoke is rising
from the dying embers of a wooden hut burnt to the
ground. An old goid-miner with an arrow in his
stomach is lying motionless, propped up against a
barrel. An axe lies by his side. If you wish to see if he
ss still alive, turn to 52. If you would rather press on
east, turn to 261.

34

Once past Darkwood Forest, you drift over the
western edge of Moonstone Hills where you had
trekked two days previousiy. You recall the
cangers. not least Kull and his cursed sword, but
ine peaceful fight m the balloon fills you with hope.
An hour or so later, Berti points and says, “There's
the Forest of Spiders on the horizon. It's going to be
a bit risky landimg, but if that’s where you want to
be, Ili do my best.’ E you still wish to land in the
forest, turn to gg. Alternatively, you can ask Borri to
so on either to the Western Flatlands (turn to 135) or
to the Plain of Bronze (turn to 219}.

357-36

33 -

"Yes, Port Blacksand is a city of thieves,’ continues
Ungoth. You breathe a sigh of relief and prepare
yourself for the next question. ‘As you know,
Razaak has already secured the support of all the
{Trolls of Allansia. Our friends the Trolis have some
peculiar habits, the most ridiculous of which is their
delight in eating Hobbits’ ears, especially in a com-
petition, What is the record for the most eaten at
once? The thought of the disgusting spectacle fills
your mind and you have difficulty concentrating on
the ansiver. However, if you know it, tum to the
number equivalent to the current Allansian record.
Ii you do not know the answer, turn to 303-

3 .
Unable to sleep properly again, you spend restless
night thinking about the task ahead. As soun as its
light enough to see, you mount your horse and set
off east once again. You climb the highest hill in
order to get a better view, and can hardly believe
your eyes. A lake, no more than two hours ride
away, lies in a valley to the south-east. With new

heart and determination, you spur your horse
towards it. Turn to £78.

37-39

37
After crossing Catfish River, you soon leave Dark-
wood Forest behind. Ihe Pagan Plain stretches out
Sefore you and you wonder whether the graveyard
*s nearer Mirewater or nearer Stonebridge. If you
wish to ride towards Mirewater, turn to g5. If you
wish to ride towards Stonebridge, turn to 142.

The rod can affect only one being at any time, If you
hope to use the rod against the Gargantis, you must
mentally release the creature you paralysed
previously- Did you use it against:

A rabbit?

Turn to 321
A hawk? Turn to122
A boar? Tum to 368

; 39

Seeping a firm grip on the reins, you are able to stay
im the saddle. Suddenly three evil-looking creatures
materialize as if by magic to ambush you. Turn to
239.
40-41

49 ot
The tunnel soon ends ata junction. Looking right,
you sce that the tunnel continues straight on as far
as you can see. Locking left, you see that it soon
comes to a dead end. There is something or some:
bady lying on the floorat the dead end, and you can
hear the unmistakable squeak of rats. ft you wish to
go left, turn to 202, If you wish to go right, turn to

345,

41

You uncork the phial, walk up to the Zomie and
throw the water at it, It eats like acid into the undead |
being, causing smoke to rise from its flesh. Roll one
die. [f you roll 1-5, turn to 373. if you roll 6, turn to

74.

4744

42

You struggle with your bonds for almost an hour,
but mercifully no creature catches your scent. You
strain until you pull a hand free at last and untie
your feet. Your wrists are bruised and bleeding,
Losé 1 STAMINA point, and also 2 SKILL points for
the loss of your sword. Luckily, your horse has not
wandered far and soon you are back in the saddle
and riding out of the glade, galloping east. Turn to
150

43

You land on the ground with a thump and attempt
to fold up the balloon before the whirlwind hits. It is
almost impossibie to stand up in the gale, but you
struggle as best as you can. You roll boulders on top
of the flattened canvas and then lic down in the
shelter of the boulders. Test your Luck, If you are
Lucky, turn to 132. If you are Unlucky, turn to 201,

44
Each taking on a Wild Elf, you charge into battle.
WILD ELF

if you win, turn to 212.

SKILL 7 STAMINA 6

45-46

45

fou stand to one side of the metal box, fearing a
tap, and lift up the lid with your sword. The cave is
inuncdiately bathed in brilliant white hight, which
himes out from the box and is so intensely bright
that it hurts your eyes. Squinting through half-
sosed eyes, vou see that you are not alone. Ani
Y mated b y the light, two Rad-Hulks lumber towards
ou from the back of the cave. They are hairless and
have sallow skin which bulges with pulsating red
veins running up and down their bodies. Although
diind, they can sense your body heat and move in to
touch you. Will you:

[ry to close the lid of the box? Turn to 372

Turn and run? ‘Turn to 395

Fight the Rad-Ffulks? Turn to 143
46

The cheese is dry and hard, but still nourishing.
Add 2 stamina points. After you have finished
esting, you decide which way to ride. Lf you wish to
“ontinue east, turn to 28e. If you would rather nde
seck down the hill and head north towards the
small wood you can see in the valley, turn to 203.

47-59

47
There is nobody in all of Allansia who has survived
the chilling touch of an Ice Ghost a second time, and
you are no exception. Turn to 357-

48

Jella is true to her word and some of your wounds
immediately start ta heal before your eyes. Roll one
die and add 2 to the number rolled. Add this num-
ber to your STAMINA score. After telling Jella bricily
about your quest, she warns you that there are 2 hot
of Boulder Beasts in the hills and that you should be
careful. You thank her and bid her farewell before
riding off west. Lurn to 382.

49
You sicep lightly (add : sramina point), until you
are cae vp shouting of Symm. “Look! A speck
in the sky over there, and it’s moving towards us.”
You stand up and peer towards where Symm is
pointing, and suddenly your heart sinks. Tum to
152.

50
After screwing the two halves of the rod together,
you decide to find out if it has any magical pro-
perties. You tap it on the ground, but nothing
happens. Finally, you pointit ata rabbit running by,
and see, to your amazement, the rabbit stop dead in

51

sts tracks. You walk up to the rabbit and discover
that itis completely paralysed. You now have a Rod
of Paralysis at your disposal. Add 1 tuck point.
With your spirits high, you ride out of the woad,
north-east towards Stonebridge. Turn to 234.

51

Groping around in the dark, you find that the room
t very small and completely empty, You turn to
walk out into the chamber, when suddenly the door
slams shut. You hear the bolts sliding home and
somebody laughing. You hammer on the door with
your fists, but to no avail. You are trapped in total
darkness. You sit down on the cold floor and wait in
the hope that Borri and Symm might rescue you.
indeed, they do come after you, but meet an un-
amely end in the tunnel. As the hours pass, you can
only contemplate death by starvation and the doom
that now awaits Allansia.

52

52 '

Yuu press your caragainst the old man’s chest. Hes
alive, but only just. You try to give him water from
the barrel, but he coughs and groans and is unable
to drink because of his stomach wound. Slowly, his
eyes open a little and he starts to speak in a laboured
whisper: ‘Orcs , . . four of them. - . took my gold
and food . . - headed east from here. . - be careful
of ambush. . . look inside barrel . . . take the . ..

But he never finishes the sentence, and his last
words are lost in his dying breath. After burying the
old man, you decide to tip up the water barrel, but
not before drinking your fill, Add 151 AMINA potnt.
When you investigate the empty barrel, you notice
that it has a false bottom. You prise it open with
your sword and find a gold nugget worth 10 Gold
Pieces, a knife, a phial of clear liquid labelled Tioly
Water’ and a translucent crystal hanging from agold
chain. After putting the nugget and the phial im
your pocket and placing the knife in your belt, you
examine the strange crystal. If you wish to put the
chain around your neck, turn to 352. lf you would
rather leave it and ride south-east to avoid the Ores,
turn tt) 137.

53-55

53

Two hours later you are deep in the hills. You paze
up at the sombre grey sky, scanning it for winged
killers that might swoop down to attack. ‘here are
no flying creatures to be seen, but an unnerving
silence sends a shiver down your spine, Suddenly,
your horse whinnies and rears up on toits hind legs,
Roll two dice. Lf the result is the same as or less than
your SKILL, turn to 3g. If the result is greater than
your SKILL, turn to 298.

Fortunately you are not confronted by any crea-
sures, and you are able to make your way out of the
tunnels. Turn to 279.

SS

35

Symmm dispatches his adversary moments after your
own is defeated. You walk into the hut, but find no
trace of Yaztromo. Symm looks around outside and
says, There was a struggle here and it looks as if the
old wizard was dragged off inte the forest. It will
be easy to follow their tracks.” You wonder why
Yaztromo did not use his magic against his kidnap-
per, but do not tell Symm your fears, Whoever or
whatever forced Yaztromo into the forest must be
very powerful indeed. Without any further delay,
you untie your horses and ride off north, with
Synun leading the way. Turn to 377-
56-57

56

No more Ice Ghosts appear when vou pass between
the statues, and you follow the tunnel as it bends to
the nght. In a few minutes you hear more noise up
thcad, but this time it sounds like the deep grunt of
2 huge beast. You walk on until the tunnel! opens
put on to 2 ledge near the bottam of a deep pit. A
foul smell of rotting slime fills your nostrils; the
stench comes from the thick sludge which covers
the bottom of the pit just below the ledge. Two legs,
green and scaly, rise up out of the sludge, and your
eyes follow them upwards to a huge torso, which
ends in a gnarled head, with a gaping maw ringed
oy rows of long spiked tecth. In the centre of the
forehead you see a white, spiral-shaped horn.
Although the Gargantis-has poor sight, it senses
your presence and reaches down towards the ledge
with its giant clawed hand. You jump back into the
safety of the tunnel beyond the reach of the Gargan-
Ss. You tell Symm and Borri that you intend to step
into the sludge-filled pit while they fire arrows to
distract the Gargantis. With the plan decided, vou
draw your sword and walk once more to the ledge.
The Gargantis lets out a fearful roar and swipes at
you with its dawed hand. If you have daubed
yourself with Chameleonite blood, turn to 24, Ifyou
nave not, turn to 349.

37
The rock hurtles past your head, missing you by
millimetres. You do not stop to look back, but run
but of the cave to vour horse. Turn to 235.
———E——eE————————————————<xXxx_—- =—_ = ----~—-----

58-59 60-62

58 60
You are tow weak to run. You stagger down the You manage to manoeuvre your horse so that you
tunnels.as fast as you can, but do not reach the steps | 2" Hight the Goblins one at a time.
in time. You have saved Allansia from etemai FO Peony
doom, but the cost has been your life. First GOBLIN ; ;

Second GOBLIN 5 6

39 ‘Third GOBLIN 6 5
You pass over a small hillock and see what appeats 7 bob GOBLIN 6 Z
to be the entrance ta a tunnel. You call in excitement
to Borri to land, and he immediately releases aie) = you win, tum to 116,
from the balloon. You drop gently down until Bom
tells you to held on tight as you are about to land. 61

At the other end of the fissure, you find a lever
protruding from the rock wall. If you wish to pull
gown on the lever, turn to 321. Alternatively, you
can do as Symm suggests and squeeze through the
crack in the wall (turn to 347).

The basket hits the ground with a thump and roils
over, but nobody is hurt. You are all in good spmt=
and begin to laugh as you try to disentangle
yourselves from one another. You fold up the de
flated balloon and hide it with the basket in the
entrance to the tunnel. ‘Let's hope the Cargants
beast is not just a legend,’ says Symm, ‘although t
might regret having said that later!’ You draw your
swords, light torches that you brought with you,
and walk guardedly down the sloping tunnel. Fiv
minutes later you arrive at a junction. If you wish te
turn left; turn to 222. Lf you wish to turn nght, turn
to 99.

62
You see the Orc just in time and dodge his out-
Stretched arms. He lands heavily on the ground,
curses loudly in Orcish, and shouts at the other two
to dose in. You are surrounded, but have the advan-
teze on horseback.

SKILL STAMINA
frst ORC 6 5
Second ORC 6 6
Third ORC 6 5

t them one ata time. If you win, turn to 243.

63-64

63

You know that the village of Mirewater is inhabited
by a race of evil Dwarfs who are in permanent
conflict with the Dwarts of Stonebndge. As you
near the village, and still fail to find the graveyard,
you wonder if it is wise to continue west. You draw
your horse to a halt to conter with Symm. ‘Surely
the haunted graveyard is going to be near Mire-
water,” argues Symm. ‘Let's keep going.” If you
wish to keep riding west, turn to 286. If you would
rather turn around and ride towards Stonebridge,
tum toa 21

64

You scoop up a handful of water and pour it om to
the sludge. The rising vapour quickly thickens an¢
fills the bottom of the fissure with a cloud of patsor
ous gas, caused by a chemical reaction. You start to
cough uncontrollably and your eyes stream with
tears. You find yourself unable to breathe and soon
fall silent to the ground.

65-67

65

A search through the Goblins’ canvas bays yields 2
Gold Pieces, some stale cheese and a cracked mirror
with a silver frame. You pack away the gold and the
mirror and examine the cheese. lf you want to eat it,
turn to 32. If you would rather throw it away, you
may cither continue nding towards the wood (turn
t 203) or ride east up the hill (turn to 280).

66

the Hamakeian spell is cast and an invisible barrier
forms around you. Hundreds of stinging insects fly
into the barrer, until a dark dome forms around
you. But frustrated by your unexpected defence,
Razaak dispels the insects to use even more power-
ful sorcery against you. If you are carrying the
Defender, turn to 271. If you are not carrying this
item, turn fp 209.

67

At the end of the valley vou are forced to ride up into
the hills again, but the rest af the day passes without
further incident. As night falls, you wonder where
to make camp, In the distance, you see the glow of
what looks like a fire, but it is now too dark to make
out who might be sitting bv it. If you wish to ride
over to the fire, turn to 183. If you would rather
camp down for the night between some nearby
boulders, turn to 399.

pe
68—69

68

After galloping along the edge of the forest for
another two kilometres, you catch sight of the
wooden hut set back against the trees. You tie your
horses to a nearby tree and then walk warily to the
open door. But instead of being greeted by your old
mend Yaztromo, two robed skeletons appear at the
door. They have sparkling red eyes which glow
eerily, and you realize that they are under the
control of another force. They must be Demonic
Servants, recruited by Razaak. The two mindless
Servants step quickly forward, ready to meet the
sharp edge of your swords with their bare hands.
You move away from Symm to give yourself more
room to wield your sword against one of the
Servants,

DEMONIC
SERVANT SKILLS STAMINA 7

Fight the Servant as normal, but if you win two
consecutive Attack Rounds, the spell animating its
body will be broken and it will collapse into a pile of
bones. [f you win, turn to 55,

69
The sharp stone flies harmlessly past your head.
Before the Rat Man has time to reload its sling, you
dose in to fight it with your sword, while Borri and
Symum take on the other two.

RAT MAN SKILL 5 STAMINA 6

if you win, turn to 22.
70-72

72
As yau approach the pile of bones, you are assailed
by a salvo of bones, frantically thrown by the little
man. If you wish to attack him, turn t 134. H you
would rather call out and tell him that you mean him
no harm, turn to 343-

7
As you spur your horses towards the Dwarfs, they
both fire their crossbows. Test your Luck. If vou are
Lucky, turn to 126. If you are Untucky, turn to 378

72
The vapour-like bodies of the loc Ghosts close um
fast, but you manage to evade them. Symm and
Borri also manage to dodge the Ice Ghosts. You
watch them disappear down the tunnel, and all
becomes quiet again. Watchful for more Ice Ghosts,
you press on down the tunnel. furn to 245.

73-74

73
You are soon out of the glade, galloping east. Tum
hk 150.

74
the Zombie shimps to the floor and does not move.

You search quickly through its rags and find
nothing of interest apart from five black candles. But
around its neck you find a copper identity tag with .
the number 283 stamped on to it. You remove the
tag and hang if around vour own neck on its rusted
chain. If you still wish to keep walking down this
branch of the tunnel, turn to 217. If you would
rather turn back, and walk past the T-junction and
along the other branch of the tunnel, turn to 199.

75
You do not feel any different with the talisman
around vour neck, nor do you discover any magical
wers. You decide not to waste any more tinte,
and you set off for Yaztromo’s tower. Turn to 304-

~)

The colour in the ald man’s cheeks suddenly drains
away. He turns and runs away as fast as his legs will
carry him. You shout at him to stop, but he ignores
your cries, ‘Never mind,” says Born. “He might just
as easily have been one of Razaak’s followers. Come
on, we must keep going.’ Following Symm up the
hill, you can‘t help feeling that it was a mistake not
to tell the truth. Turn to 313.

77
By the time your horse reaches the top of the hill, it
is panting heavily and is obviously toe exhausted to
gallop any further. You look around and sec many
rocks and boulders strewn about, You jump down

78

quickly from the saddle and begin pushing the rocks
and boulders down the hill towards the oncoming
Gobiins. Roll one die and deduct 2 from the number
rolled to determine how many Goblins you bowl
over. If you knock down one or more Goblins, turn
to 213. If you fail to knack any down, turn to 6.

o8

Borri gets bored with trying to open the section of
wall and decides to sit down on the fluor. As he
leans his back against the wall, a small square
section presses in, and at the same time, the wall
section opposite him swings out. Svmun shakes his
head in amazement and says, ‘Trust the lazy Dwarf
to sort out our problem. Still, we shouldn't com-
plain about his luck when it’s in our favour.’ Hold-
mg his torch in front of him, Symm peers into the
new passageway and says that he cannot see any-
thing because the passage turns fett, but he can hear
an unnerving noise, like the sound of bones being
chewed by some large creature. If you wish to
investigate, turn to 269. If you would rather walk
back to the junction to try the other passage, turn to
222.

79

Ahead, you hear a rumbling sound, like wheels
rolling over the rock floor. A figure slowly comes
mite view from out of the shadows, pushing a cart
joaded with bones. It is an ugly, muscular creature
with long arms that end in sharpened claws. It hasa
Grooling mouth, from which long teeth protrude
ake tusks. On seeing you, the Cave Troll grunts,
releases the cart and humbers towards you with a
raised chub.

CAVE TROLL sxrii. 8 STAMINA QG

The Cave Troll attacks you, but Symm ({sKILL 10)
and Borri (SKILL 9) can also attack the Troll. There-
tore, you have three attacks against the Troll against
one in return. If you win, turn tog.

80-81

80
As soon as you tauch the lid of the chest, you hear
the sound of scurrying feet coming from inside — a
scratching sound like that made by a rodent. If you
still wish to lift the lid, turn to 25. Alternatively, you
can either break the globe, if you have not done so
already (turn to 367), or leave the cave (turn to 386).

About an hour later, a hooded figure steps out of the
fissure dressed in ragged black robes and carrying 4
black staff. ‘The figure looks from side to side, and
you see that its head is skeletal, but has glowing red
eyes, ‘A Demonic Servant,’ you whisper. ‘I'll take it
with my sword.’ Sensing no danger, the Demonic
Servant drops to its knees and begins a ritual of
bowing and chanting. You seize your chance and

82-83

run at it, sword in hand. Iotally unafraid, it meets
your blow with its bare hands, and you are sur-

prised by its uncarthly strength.
DEMONIC
SERVANT SKILLS STAMINA 7

Fight the Lesser Demon as normal, but if you win
twoconsecutive Attack Rounds, the spell animating
its body will be broken and it will collapse into a pile
af bones. If you win, turn to 93.

52
The cave is immediately bathed in white light again
as soon as you lift the lid of the box. You explore the
back of the cave and find a wooden crate. If you
wish to break the crate open, tum to 295. If you
would rather walk back to your horse, turn to 235.

83
You yust manage to hold on to your sword as you
tall, and are immediately locked in combat.

APE MAN
After three Attack Rounds, turn to 254,

skin 8 STAMINA 7

84-86

You know what you have to do to compietely de-
stroy the necromancer. You pull the white horn
from your robes and plunge it into Razaak’s chest. A
soul-chilling scream breaks the silence of the crypt
and within seconds nothing more than dust es on
the floor where Razaak had fallen. The mist falls
away and you see the great stone sarcophagus in
which Razaak lay for over one hundred years. Ifyou
wish to look inside the sarcophagus, turn to 390. ff
you would rather leave the crypt as quickly as
possible, turn to 233-

85
You fall down an unseen pit, built by the fur-trapper
who used to live in the hut. Roll one die and deduct
the number from your sTamMINA. Aching and
bruised, you climb out of the pit. Turn to 23.

86
Unknown to you, the bone beetle is an Amulet of I
Fortune. Lose 3 LUCK points. Its previous owner
had found it only three days before his death
Finding nothing else of interest, you walk along the
other branch of the tunnel. Turn to 315.

87-89

87

You explore the back of the cave and find a wooden
crate. If you wish to break the crate open, turn to
295. If you would rather walk back to your horse,
turn to 235-

$8

You totter on the edge of the pit, but just manage to
keep your balance. Before the Gargantis has time ta
attack you again, Symm and Borri distract its alten-
ton by loosing arrows atits giant torso. The Gargan-
tis lets out a roar, although the arrows barely pierce
its tough hide. But the Gargantis has an instinctive
defence mechanism which is triggered by pain. A
gland in its neck emits waves of mental energy of
intense power. If you are wearing a translucent
crystal around your neck on a gold chain, tum to
193. If you are not wearing a crystal, turn to 307.

if vou wish to tie your horse up toa tree and trudge
through the thick undergrowth to find the Demon’s
lair, turn to 31g. If you would rather ride out of the
wood as quickly as possible, turn to 168.

1)
\ { 2\
WY

~ .

nest
ae

-
es
:

Q '

WAN
als *
Pe
-_—

Yen
t
y

a

,

4,
a

4 ¥

q

>

fy

—

TaN wh

oan

‘
~

hae

1 \

a}

4

‘
4
+

~

—s
-

\

go-gt
ad
he turtnel twists and turns, and vour torches cast
eene shadows on the rough walls. Suddenly you
near footsteps marching towards you, and you
meedy vourselves for combat. Six ugly creatures,
very much hke a blend of Orc and Troll, with large
ests and tusk-like tecth, march into view. They have
mene. wild hair, plaited with bones, and their
smour is made of large metal plates with protrud-
2 spikes and studs. The Doragar are berserk war-
ors who revel at the opportunity to inflict wounds
with their cruel weapons. Choosing two opponents
ech, you run into battle.

yo ft

SKIL! STAMINA
rirst DORAGAR ~ 9
second DORAGAR 9 LO

= you win, turn to 144.

g1

Tou quickly light the candle, knowing that you have
tess than an hour to save yourself from a terrible
Ste. Frantically, you begin to search in the light of
the candie for belladonna, the only plant known
Sat can cure the disease. Test your Duck. If you are
sucky, turn to 335. lf you are Unlucky and fail to
and the plant, turn to 347.

g2

Although you are not disturbed during the night, an
Elvin flies silently into the camp and steals thre
items from your backpack (deduct three items trom
your Equipment List). Without being detected,
mischievous little creature flies off with his loot,
you discover the inexplicabic theft in the moming.
bemused, you set off towards Stonebndge. With
an hour, you reach a bridge which crosses a clear
stream and leads you into Stonebridge. You recog-
nize a couple of the Dwarfs walking along the stree
and ask them where you might find Born. ‘In the
stable at the other end of the village, comes the
reply in unison. You dismount and walk your tires
horses through the village, nodding to a few more
Dwarfs whom you recognize. You knock on th
stable door and are greeted by 2 smiling Dwarf with
chubby red cheeks anda long beard. Tela!" he say

cheerfully. ‘My name is Bor and you must bey) Bas
Dek: ices tous htiada tes ois Gers Soe

Yaztromo’s friends. Vl take care of your —
while you help yourselves to a hearty breakfast

there's plenty for everybody. Come in and 2 &

7

down.’ You enter the stable and cat until you feel 2
though you are bursting. Add 2 STAMINA points

93

When you have relaxed for a while, come out to the
teck and I'll show you something special. Just give

‘Me a few minutes to get it ready. Yaztromo told me

aii ebout your quest and at last fl be able to put my
myention to the test!” Borri says enthusiastically,
Ten minutes later, your curiosity gets the better of
feu and you walk outside. Turn to 353.

| 93
‘You strip the Demon of its robe and put it on,
pulling the hood well over your head. ‘That's you

erted out, but what aboutus?’ asks Borri. You reply
t you think you should go alone, so as to attract

- = heres 22% Borri and Symm argue against your

, but they see your point that, without dis-
, they would hinder rather than help. They

you, if you haven't returned. You shake their
ds and walk down the steps into the dark depths

the fissure. The foul air makes you heave, but you
arry on regardless. Your eyes gradually become
94

accustomed to the gloom, and your nose even gets
used to the foul stench. When you reach the bottom
you see that the vapour is rising from a large stone
bow, containing a thick red liquid, which glows as
though it were molten metal. No heat is given off by
the shidge, just the nauseating smell. You also see
water in a nearby rock pool, and it occurs to you te
pour the water on the sludge to stop the vapour
rising. If you want to do this, turn to 64. If you
would rather press on to find Razaak’s crypt, turn to
181.

94
After placing the ring on your finger, the hooded
cloak of the Bonekeeper rises up from the ground
and hovers in front of you. A dagger appears from
nowhere, clutched by an invisible hand protruding
from the cloak. The cloak moves swiftly and silently

towards you, releasing the dagger straight at you

The Spirit Avenger's aim is true and you are struck
by the dagger. Roll one die- If you roll 1, turn to 227
if you roll 2—4, tum to 246. H you roll 5 or 6, turn &
344.

95-96

You ride for several hours, but do not come across
the graveyard. To the north you see a small wood on
the banks of Red River and to the west you can just
see the roof-tops of the village of Mirewater. Will

vin):

Ride north to the wood? Turn to 273

Ride west towards Mirewater? Turn to 63
Ride north-east towards

Stonebridge? Turn to 363
96

Not trusting anybody in this dangerous land, blind
or not, you keep your distance from the old man and
ask him where he is going. ‘To see my old friend the
Healer,” he replies in a soft voice. Tle lives in
Moonstone Hills. But what brings you here?’ If you
wish to reply that you intend to slay Razaak, turn to
179. If you wish to reply that you are a servant of
Razaak, turn to 76.

97-98 99-102

$7

‘The river is wide, but not very deep, and you have
no trouble in crossing it. You ride up the hill, and 2s

approach the cave you see that  well-wom
path runs out from ils mouth and down the hill. You
climb down from the saddle, tie your horse toa rock
and walk up to the entrance. The cave is dark and
you cannot see far beyond the entrance. If you wish
to enter the cave, turn to 310. If you would rather
ride back down the hill and follow the river up the

valley, turn to 284.

Sorri releases ait from the balloon, and gradually
you begin your descent. The trees seem to grow
Reger by the second as the balloon drops down.
Seri yells a command for you to hold on tight as
you are about to land. Roll one dic. If you roll 1, turn

247. lf you roll 2 or 3, turn to 293. If you roll 4, 5 or
> turn to 371.

190

Amer a long day’s ride, your horse is far from fresh.
2 you stopped to rest and water your horse at the
am, turn to 129. If you did not stop at the stream,
to 350.

197

you have a phial of holy water, turn to 41. Other-
se, you must fight the Zombie with your sword
to 318).

98

Some objects in Allansia are magical, others are not.
It would be a strange world indeed if a tiny rat skull
could be used to overcome the giant Gargantis. You
throw the skull hopefully at the giant beast, Dut 7
merely bounces off its leg and drops with a plop ito
the slime, Lose 2 LUCK points. There is no time t
use another item, as the Gargantis is almost on top
af you: you must rely once again on your trusty
sword. Turn to 147.

102

is a strange iridescence given off by the jewel,
t you are unable to trigger off any magical power.
oo shrug your shoulders in disappointment and
ide off towards the lake. Turn to 339.
» 103

£03
@Shough you are reluctant to part with your sword,
eu are convinced that the unseen man is telling the
@uth. As soon as your sword is out of your hand,
ihe Man steps out from behind a tree into the light of
@e fre. He is tall and dressed in a dark green tunic.
Me pulls back his hood and extends his hand in
welcome. You sit down by the fire and feast yourself
wm the delicious duck and wild mushrooms. Add 2
STamina points. The man tells you that his name is
Semm and that he is a hunter and tracker. There is
mething I cannot follow and nothing [cannot shoot,’
Re says in a jovial voice, while wiping his mouth
meth the back of his hand. ‘But what brings you to
@ese barren hills?’ You decide to tell Symm about
Seraak and the threat to Allansia. When you have
Smished, Symm looks at you seriously and says,
‘And I nearly put an arrow through you! | must
make it up to you somehow. I therefore offer you
my services. | am sure you will find my skills of
e use. What do you say?’ You decide that Symm
seuld be a valuable ally, and you accept his offer.
After a good night's sleep you both mount your
Rorses and ride off west. Symm takes the lead,
| Soosing the easiest and most direct way out of the
wills. By late afternoon you are almost at the edge of
Se hills, when Symm notices two figures crouching
@own behind large rocks up ahead. “Wild Hill Men,’
Se calls out to you. “They think I haven't seen them,
and they will jump out at us when we ride by. Do
= you want to practise your swordplay or shall we ride
wound them? If you wish to fight the Pill Men,

104-106 197—109

turn to 196. If you would rather ride around them,
turn to 327.

104
You carefully lift the lid of the box and find that
contains merely empty bottles of Warthog Stout, the

107
favourite drink of Trolls. There is also a book which] You are only winded by the fall. Lose 1 STAMINA

is published by the small brewery entitled point. Luckily, you stil have hold of your horse’s
Warthog Book of Troll Records. Borri gnimaces ¢ eins; but you do not have time to jump back into the
says, ‘Ugh, Warthog Stout. How can anybody drink) secdie because three evil-looking creatures sud-
that ditch water? Trolls are so disgusting, they) Semly materialize as if by magic to ambush you.
drink anything. And they can’t even read, so why *5Tn to 239.

this book gets published is a mystery to me. Still
wouldn't mind a quick read to see how stupid T
can be.’ If you want to rest for a while and let Bor
read the book, turn to 266. If you want to tell him
leave the book and press on along the tunnel, tur

to 40.

108

es, that is correct,’ says Ungoth. ‘T willnowlet you
imier the crypt. Go through the granite door. You
snow the combination, of course." Almost unable to
k due to nervous expectation, you walk over to
granite door. You see a row of nine metal rods,
ambered 1 to 9, protruding from the wall. If you
mow which three to pull, turn to that number, If
ou do not know which ones to pull, turn to 291.

105
‘The Rad-Hulk grabs hold of your arm and prever
you from shutting the box. You have no choice ©
to fight for your life. Turn to 143.
meg

man is a skilled bowman. Despite the darkness,
is invariably lethal at such a short range. His
sow flies towards you, but lodges in a low branch
t hangs down unseen in the dark. You ride off at
i speed before he has time to fire another arrow,

em you are satisfied that you are far enough
2y from the bowman, you camp for the night in
shelter of some boulders. Turn to 399.

>s.
-

106
You fall screaming to your death, and all m /
is now lost.

1130-111

110
You are transfixed by fear, unable to move a muscle.
Your eyes are locked wide open with horror as you
watch the Hellcat maul your two statue-like friends
to death. Then it leaps at you, its fangs dripping
with blood, and bites deep into your throat.
Razaak’s pet has sealed the fate of Allansia.

1m

The helmet fits tightly on your head and is quite
uncomfortable. You decide to take it off, but find

new problem to preoccupy you, you consider

options. If you have not done so already, you may

either examine the rod (turn to 360) or open the

backpack (turn to 175). If you would rather return to

your horse, turn to 221.

112-114

112

Suddenly, you hear the sound of the howling wind
start up again, and look behind you to see the three
Ice Ghosts flying back down the tunnel. Their
mouths are open to let out their horrific screams.
There is nowhere to hide, and you ready yourself to
dodge them as they close in on you. Roll two dice
three times. If any of the totals is greater than your
SKILL score, turn to 383. [fall the totals are the same
as Or less than your SKILL score, turn to 323.

113

Unable to sleep properly again, you spend the rest
of the night thinking about the task ahead. As soon
as it is ight enough to see, you mount your horse
and set off. You climb the highest hill in order to get
a better view. Looking north-east, you can hardly
believe your eyes. A lake, no more than a two-hour
ride away, hes in a valley. With your spirits revived,
you spur your horse towards it, Turn to 178,

114

You are only some twenty metres above the ground
when the whirlwind hits. Its incredible power
tosses the balloon up and over, ripping it apart as
though it were a wet paper bag. You are carried
some five hundred metres by the swirling spiral
before being thrown out and falling to your death.

==
415-116

m5

As soon as you unbolt the door, itis pushed open by
three disgusting creatures. Resembling giant flying
slugs with no eyes, but with large gaping mouths
and spiked teeth, the Lava Demons circle around
you. Suddenly they stop and hover above your
head. They have no wings, and you wonder what
keeps them in the air. Then you remember that Lava
Demons metamorphose into Fire Imps just as cater-
pillars become butterflies. As the first Lava Imp
swoops in to attack you, you suddenly laugh at
yourself for thinking of butterflies at such an in-
appropriate moment.

SKILL STAMINA

First LAVA DEMON io 4
Second LAVA DEMON 5 4
third LAVA DEMON 6 4

Fight therm one ata time. If you win, turn to 309,

116
4 search through the canvas hags belonging to the
Goblins yields 2 Gold Pieces, some stale cheese and
2 cracked mirror in a silver frame. You pack away
the gold and the mirror and examine the cheese. If
you want to eat it, turn to 140, If you would rather
throw It away and nde east, turn to 292.

117-119

117

Holding your torch in one hand and the rope with
the other, you are slowly lowered down the side of
the pit by Borri and Symm. The noise of the bones
being gnawed suddenly stops and is replaced by a
squelching sound as though some huge beast is
moving slowly through sticky sludge. But before
you reach the bottem, a huge, green, dawed hand
reaches up and grabs you, and lifts you towards a
gaping maw ringed by rows of long, spiked teeth.
You are easily bitten in two by the creature you had
come to slay.

118
You draw your sword, urge your horse into a gallop
and charge at the Hill Giant. Before you can reach
him, he picks up a large rock and hurls it at you with
all his might. Roll one die. if you roll 1 or 2, turn to
374. Lf vou roll 3-6, turn to 173-

rig
‘Stupid Trolls. But we need them in the short term,
although Razaak will no doubt dispense with them
when he has conquered Allansia. They are merely
servants to tend the Gargantis which Razaak has
reared and will use to spearhead his army against
the forces of Allansia.’ You think of the white horn

120

mdden in your robes, and gulp and look away,
hoping the Skeleton Lord does not detect your guilt.
‘Anyway, continues Ungoth, ‘what | would like
you to tell me is this: What number does Razaak
tattoo on the arms of his Zombie tunnellers?’ lf you
xnow the answer, turn to the relevant number, If
you de not know the answer, turn to 291.

120

the Orc lands on top of you and knocks you out of
the saddle. You roll over on the ground, grappling
with the Orc, whois clawing and biting frantically to
get himself into a position to stab you with his knife.
The smell of its rancid clothing fills your nostrils and
makes you heave. The other two Orcs watch on,
urging their comrade to kill you, but are ready to
help if needed.

ORC SKILI.6 STAMINA 5

You are unable to use your sword, so you must
reduce your Attack Strength by 2 during cach
Attack Round. [f you win, turn to 8.

121-123

121
The lightning hits a nearby tree, splitting the trunk
in two. Smoke rises from the charred wood and you
think yourself lucky to have escaped injury. Turn to
300,

122
if you cannot recollect what creature is still trapped
by the rod, then you will be unable to activate mt
against the Gargantis. Once again, you must rely on
your sword. Turn to 147-

1233
You point the Moon Ring at the Werewolf and recite
the words that the Bonekeeper told you. The Were-
wolf howls in terror, turns and disappears mto the
night to find another victim. Turn to 36.

124-126

124

You tentatively dab some blood on to yourself, and
wait to see if you feel any ill effects. Roll one die. If
you roll 1, turn to163. If you roll 2, turn to 272. If you
roll 3-6, turn to 361.

125

The figure steps slowly towards you, and you set
eyes on the hideous face of Razaak. A twisted smile
spreads up one side of his deformed face when he
notices the Horned Demon hanging from your
neck. Tam zed you are wearing a Talisman of
Chaotic Evil. You are indeed a true servant,’ he says
in a sneerin I voice. ‘Kneell’ You find your-
self unable to disobey his command and you drop to
your knees. You cannot raise your arms to take off
the talisman. You can only watch as Razaak steps
forward, places his skeletal hand on your face, and
drains the life from your body. You are now a
Zombie in his service and all is lost.

126
The crossbow boit flies harmlessly by your head,
and Symmi too escapes injury. You choose your
opponent and ride in to attack.
DWARF

if you win, turn to 250.

SKILL 7 STAMINA 7

127-128

127

When you get closer to the trees, you see who is
calling for help. A young woman is hanging upside
down, her nght leg caught in a rope noose tied toa
high branch of a tree. Her hands are tied behind her
back, making it impossible for her to free herself.
She pleads with you to cut her down and say's that
she can heal your wounds as a reward- If you wish
to cut her down, turn to 258. If you prefer to leave
ber and resume your journey, turn to 382.

128

if you have both halves of the rod, you will know
what type of rod it is and how to activate it. Do you
delieve it is:
A Rod of Thunder? Turn to 387
A Rod of Transmautation? Turn to 206
A Rod of Paralysis? Turn to 38
129-131

129

You reach the wood well ahead of the Goblins and
gallop between tall, gnarled trees into thick under-
growth. lt is dark and eerie in the wood; what little
light there is outside is virtually shut out by the
crowded tree-tops. You pull on the reins and bring
your horse to a halt, waiting to see if the Goblins
follow you into the wood. You hear them shouting
to one another at the edge of the wood, and you
detect some fear in their voices. Suddenly you hear
them gallop away and you wonder why they didn’t
enter the wood. Keeping a constant watch all
around you, you urge your horse to walk on, feeling
all the time that you are being watched. Turn to 365.

430
After hauling yourself out of the lair, you discover
that you have found a bronze face-mask. If you wish
to wear the mask, turn to 385. If you would rather
leave it behind and walk through the narrow tunnel

opposite, turn to 297.

131

You are in possession of a magical shield which
dates back some two hundred years. It has the
unusual ability to defend its carrier from magically
cast lightning bolts. lt does, of course, defend
against sharpened blades too. Named the Defender
by its maker, itis certainly one of the finest shields in
all Allansia. Add 1 sx111. point and 1 LUCK point.
You sling it over your shoulder and ride off towards
the Jake. Turn to 29.

132

432

The whirlwind passes by some hundred metres to
your right, and you remain unharmed in your
shelter. When the wind dies down, vou sit up and
breathe a sigh of relief. Borri immediately sets about
inspecting the balloon for damage and says that it
will take him about two hours to repair it. You
decide to go off with Symm to try to find horses ora
pack animal to carry the balloon. After half an hour,
you see 2 caravan of horse-drawn wagons heading
north-west across the plain. You wave to a near-
by horseman and soon he rides up to you,
accompanied by two others. They ask you what you
want, and you reply that you need a pack animal.
they tell you that they have no spare horses or
mules, but you can ride on the wagons for 3 Gold
Pieces per person. If you can and wish to spend 9
Gold Pieces to ride north-west with the caravan,
turn to 277. If you would rather refuse their offer
and continue your search for horses, turn to 325,

Se << s ---

133-135

a

A

133
The dextrous Rat Man is skilled in the use of the
sling, and the sharp stone strikes you painfully on
the forchead. Lose 2 STAMINA points. Before the
Rat Man has time to reload its sling, you close im to
fight it with your sword, while Borri and Symm take
on the other two.

RAT MAN

If you win, turn to 22.

SKILL 5 STAMINA 6

1s
You jump down from your horse, sword in hand,
and attack the nimble man, who is armed with two
long thigh bones.
BONEKEEPER

The Valley of Bones curses those who would harm
its keeper. If you win, turn to 287, but lose 3 Luck
points.

SKILL 5 STAMINA 6

135
After leaving Darkwood Forest behind, you pass
over the western edge of Moonstone Hills where
twa days previously you had made your dangerous
trek. The Forest of Spiders soon appears, looking
much the same as Darkwood Forest, and you know
that similar unseen dangers are lurking below.

136-138

Once past the forest, the balloon carries you steadily
south-east, until you drift over the southern edge of
Moonstone Hills to reach the Flatlands. ‘Any idea
where to land?’ asks Borri, speaking through
denched teeth that grip his old pipe. You scan the

ground below, looking for any sign of a cave or

tunnel entrance. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 59. If you are Unhucky, turn to 160.

136

The chair houses more iron bars, but these are

hidden in the back of the chair and are pointed at
one end. The hissing voice utters the words ‘Death
to intruders’, and the spiked bars are rammed into
your back. Allansia is doomed.

137

As you ride along, you gaze up at the sombre sky,
xanning it for winged killers that might swoop
down to attack. There are no flying creatures to be
seen, but an unnerving silence sends a shiver down
your spine. You look around for signs of Orcs, but
see nothing. Suddenly, your horse whinnies and
tears up on toits hind legs. Roll two dice. If the total
is the same as or less than your SKILL, turn to 39. If
the total is greater than your SKILL, turn to 298.

138

You are almost back at the entrance to the tunnels
when you hear footsteps coming towards you. Test
gour Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 274. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 359.
139-140

139

As soon as you enter the clearing, something sinis-
ter starts to happen. The earth around the tomb-
stones shifts and suddenly a skeletal arm thrusts up
into the air. A skull appears and then another, until
you see six Skeletons climb out of their graves. Each
s armed with a rusted sword. Animated by your
cursed ring, three Skeletons step jerkily towards
you and the other three walk towards Symm.

SKILL STAMINA
First SKELETON 6 5
Second SKELETON 6 6
Third SKELETON 5 6
if you win, turn to 290.

140

The cheese is dry and hard, but still nourishing.
Add 2 STAMINA points. After you have finished
esting, you slap your horse on the neck and nde
east. Turn to 292.

Le
If you have any polished stones, turn to 272. If you
do not have any stones, turn to 357.

142
The day passes and it is twilight when Stonebridge
comes into view. If you wish to camp outside
Stonebridge, turn to g2. If you would rather give up
your search for the graveyard and nde inte
Stonebridge, turn to 316.

143
The mindless Rad-Hulks shuffle towards you and
do not flinch from the blow of your sword. They are
charged by the light and are powerful opponents.

SKIL! STAMINA
First RAD-HULK 10 5
Second RAD-HULK 10 6

Fight them ane at a time. If you win, tur to $7.

144-145

144

Bor and Symm also manage to defeat their
opponents, although both suffer flesh wounds.
While they bandage their wounds, you search the
bodies and find a leather bag on the beit of their
leader. Inside you find a bronze key and some
brown powder in a small round tin. You pocket the
key and hand the powder to Symm to see if he
knows what it is. “Snuff,” he says scornfully. ‘Horri-
ble stuff. He empties the tin on to the ground and
you decide what to do next. If you wish to continue
along the tunnel, turn to 398, If you would rather
walk back to the junction and try the other passage,
turn to 222.

145

Alas, you have chosen to put on an Agran death-
mask. Made by the High Priests of Agra in southern
Allansia, these terrible masks were given to unfor-
tunate sacrificial victims at harvest time. Although
the wearer appears perfectly normal, he will lie
down and plunge a dagger into his own heart. The
High Priests dominated their people and led them
to believe thai the sacrificial victims killed them-
selves willingly. While Borri and Symm are closing
the trapdoor, you lie down on the floor and thrust
Razaak’s sword into your chest. In seconds, your
flesh turns to dust, and Borri and Symm flee from
the chamber, not knowing what to do. Allansia is
lost.
NE ————— =

146-147

146

You climb steadily up into the hills, following the
winding river. After an hour or so, the ground
becomes very marshy and your horse has to
struggle to keep moving forward. It appears that
this part of the river often breaks its banks and
floods the valley. lf you wish to keep heading north,
turn to 249. If you would rather cross the river and
ride east into the hills, turn to 53.

147
You slide over the edge of the pit and sink up to your
knees in stinking slime. The fearsome Gargantis is
massive, and you stand no taller than its hips. Its
strength is formidable and its hide appears as tough
as chainmail.

GARGANTIS

If you somehow manage to defeat this giant beast,
turn to 220,

SKILL 12 STAMINA 24

oad

148
At long last you reach the final ridge and gaze out
actoss the Windward Plain. You ride on until night-
tall and spend a peaceful night in an abandoned hut
on the northern bank of Silver River. Not long after
dawn, you are back in the saddle and riding towards
Yaztromo’s tower. You reach your destination by
noon and call out excitedly to your old friend as the
tower comes into view. But nobody returns your call
and the smile drops quickly from your face. You tie
your horse to a bush and walk along the path to
Yaztromo’s door. You notice that his herb garden is
brown and withered and ugly bushes with long
black thorns have quickly grown up, smothering
the plants and herbs. Such a remarkable change in a
few days puzzles you. You ring the brass bell but
there is no reply. Suddenly, a large crow flies down
from a window in the tower and drops a piece of
paper to the ground. You pick it up and read a
message from Yaztromo:

Dear Friend,

Sorry | am not here to meet you. Am still busy

Please ride east where you will find me at a

wooden hut at the edge of Darkwood Forest.

Yaztromo.

149-150

You tell Symm about the note and then you both
hurry. back to your horses. As you ride east, you
wonder if Yaztromo is in danger. After nding along
the edge of the forest for less than a mile, a voice
calls out from the trees, saying, ‘Tf you are looking
for Yaztromo, I know where to find him.” If you
wish to stop to investigate, turn to 237. If vou would
rather ride on, turn to 68.

149
You are mesmerized by the beauty of the sparkling
diamonds, but picking one up is the last thing thet
you will ever do. Your body immediately crysteh
lizes and you sparkle as if you were a diamond
yourself. You have saved Allansia from eternal
doom, but have paid for your greed with vour life.

150

The rest of the day soon passes and you find 2
suitable place to camp for the night, making sure
that your horse is securely tethered to a nearby
tree. You settle down to sleep, but are woken in the
middle of the night by the sound of buzzing wings

151

You awaken to the sight of a full moon, but your
attention is immediately drawn to two luminous
objects hovering above your head. Up in these hills,
there is only one thing they can be — Giant Fire
Beetles. These strange beetles attack humans indis-
criminately, inflicting serious wounds with their
strong mandibles. Within seconds you are on your
feet to defend yourself. Fight the beetles one at a
ime.

SKILL STAMINA
First GIANT
FIRE BEETLE 5 4
Second GIANT
FIRE BEETLE 5 4
if you win, turn to 113.
151

You pass a battered iron helmet attached to the wall,
with a candle burning on top of it. All the other
candle holders are skulls, and you wonder why the
helmet is the odd one out. If you wish to try on the
helmet, turn to 197. If you would rather keep on

walking, turn to 281.

152-154

1$2
the object in the sky is a gigantic winged creature
with a long neck and tail. Its scales are red, and the
creature measures nearly twenty-five metres in
length. Some dragons are neutral, others are un-
iniendly, but an adult Red Dragon is always hostile
and worse still, it can shoot fireballs from its mouth,
Bormi, get this contraption on the ground as quickly
as you can, or we are all done for,” warns Symm, But
it 1s too late - the Red Dragon swoops down and
shoots a fireball straight at the balloon, The balloon
ignites in a ball of flame and plunges towards the
ground. If you know how te call on the Suma to help

you, turn to his number. Lf you do not know whatto
do, turn tu 106.

153
As you urge your horse up the side of the hill, the
Giant picks up a rock and tries a long shot at you

Roll one die. Lf you roll 1, turn to 374. If you roll 2-6
turn to 330.

154

Despite the extra weight, you manage te hold on ta
the rope and kick the Hobgoblin off your leg. It falls
to the ground with a loud cry as you haul yourself
up the rope and scramble into the basket. Turn to

oe

b

1557157

155

A search through the Goblins’ canvas bags yields 2
Gold Pieces, some stale cheese and a cracked mirror
in a silver frame. You pack away the gold and the
mirror and examine the cheese. lf you want to eat it,
turn to 46. If you would rather throw it away, do so
and then you may either continue riding east (turn
ta 280), or ride back down the hill and head north
towards the small wood you can see in the valley
(turn to 203).

156
The only light in the cold tunnel comes from black
candles set ten metres apart. Some of them have
burned out and others are burning very low. Lf you
wish t) wait to see if anybody comes along to
replace the candles, turn to 11. If you would rather
keep walking, turn to 217.

157
Yaztromo gives you some nourishing food (add 2
STAMINA points) and then refills your glass phiai
with his Healing Potion, enough for five tots. Hold-
ing on to the reins of your horse, Yaztromo says, ‘Tf

158
you manage to find the haunted graveyard, so

‘Such the better, but don’t waste too much time

searching. After that, ride to the Dwarf village of

Stonebridge and ask for Borri. He will be able to save

you a great deal of time!’ He lets go of the reins and

you kick your horse into a gallop, riding west along

the edge of Darkwood Forest. In less than an hour it

-% too dark to ride any further, and you find a
Suitable place to sleep. After building a large fire,
You take it in turns to stand guard throughout the
might. You take the first watch and not long before
midnight you hear, coming from the trees, the
|" froaning cry of somebody in considerable pain. You
wake Symm and decide what to do. If you decide to
“Mvestigate, turn to 244. If you decide to ignore the

Shes, turn to 345.

158

The stone that Symm selects holds the curative

powers needed to combat the touch of an Ice Ghost.
Your body warms up and you regain consciousness,
emily slightly the worse for your ordeal. Lose 2

STAMINA points. Symm tells you what happened,
-ssying that the Ice Ghosts disappeared again, hav-
“ing failed to touch either himself or Born. The
tunnel is quiet once more and you decide to aban-

Gon the search for a secret passage and walk boldly
between the stone statues. Turn to 56.

~

7 a were

159-160

159

The terrain between the hill and the river soon

becomes very difficult for your horse to cross, with

boulders, fallen trees and tangled undergrowth”
forcing a slow walk. On the other side of the nver

the ground is much better, so you steer your horse
across the river to make faster progress. Turn to 284

4

You drift slowly across the flat plain, but do not se=

any sign of a tunnel entrance. Becoming more and

more despondent, you ask Borri to land before you
drift too far south-east. He carries out your instru>

tion and releases air from the halloon. You

gently down until Borri tells you to hold on tight 2s
you are about to land. The basket hits the ground
with a thump, but nobody is injured. Nobody talke
while the balloon is folded up. ‘Weare gving to need

161-162

Snishing when Symm returms with an ox. The
@ocile animal pulls the sled with ease, but you must
Gecide which way to walk. ‘Well, these infernal
tunnels must be cither north or south of here,’

Symm argues logically. If you wish to walk north,

turn to 30. If you wish to walk south, turn to 229.

161

‘The rat was a plague carrier, and quite quickly you

Segin to feel weak and sickly. Lose 6 STAMINA
points and 1 skILL point. If you still wish to look
mside the chest, turn to 221. If you would rather
mave the cave, turn to 386.

162
Atter an hour of trekking through the blackened
mills. you reach your goalat last. Lying at the bottom
@ a valley like a giant open wound, the fissure
throws out its putrid vapour into the air. You step
werlly to the jagged edge of the fissure and look
Gown inside the gaping maw. Steps run down one
Side into a black void, but there is little else to see.
You step back from the edge to work out a plan. If

‘you wish to wait for a servant of Razaak to appear,

tum to 61. If you would rather go down the steps
Straight away, turn to 381.

the balloon later,” says Borri, ‘but how are we going
to carry it?’ ‘Don’t worry,’ replies Symm. ‘1 saw &
herd of oxen about a mile back. I'll go and get one
while you make a rough sled and pack the balloon
on to it. I shouldn't be longer than an hour.” You cat
down a small tree and make the sled, and are j

163-164

163

One of your arms slowly begins to become numb,
until you are unable to feel it or move it at all. E
hangs uselessly at your side. Lose 2 SKILL points
You will never again be able to use a shield or fire z
bow and arrow, should you get the opportunity.
You curse and consider thai camouflage is a small
consolation. You turn your horse towards the east
and ride off. Turn to 180.

You shake your head in amazement. Yaztromo then
walks over to you and puts his arm around your
shoulder, saying, Friend, you have done more for
Allansia than can ever have been expected of you
But alas, it is not enough! His hand suddenly grabs
your face and as the life drains from your body,
Razaak dispels the illusion to reveal his hideous true
self. But you are now a Zombie in his service, and al
is lost.

165

Consumed by dark thoughts, you do not notice that
rou are being followed, and only the sound of
galloping hoofs brings you back to reality. You look
dehind you and sce an armoured Centaur closing on
you. Your horse is too tired te out-gallop the Cen-
ur, so you turn to face your adversary, who is
armed with a long spear,

CENTAUR

Part-man and part-horse, the Centaur revels in
Sattle and is a tough opponent. If you win, turn to

239.

SKILt [0 STAMINA 10

166
Symum sees the creature just in time and pushes you
eut of the way. The Iron-Eater falls harmlessly to the
Soor and you are able to walk on along the tunnel.
Turn to 151-
167-169

167

You soon see that it is a little old man dressed in
yellow robes. He is completely bald and appears to
de blind, although he makes his way towards the
cave quite nimbly, tapping the ground in front of
tim with a crooked stick. When he gets close, you
see that his robes are covered with strange symbols.
He suddenly stops walking and stands upright, but
says nothing. If you wish to talk to him, turn to 96, If
you would rather walk on up the hill, turn to 313.

168

Ever watchful for hidden attackers, you ride slowly
through the wood. You soon come to the edge of a
small clearing where the ground is covered with
globe-like fungi which are deep purple in colour. If
you wish to ride through the fungi, turn to 337. If
you would rather ride around the edge of the clear-
mg, turn to 302.

169
After hauling yourself out of the lair, you walk
through the narrow tunnel. Turn to 297.
170
The lightning hits you with incredible force and the
pain of the electric shock is agony all over your
body. Roll one die, add 3 to the number rolled and
deduct it from your sTAMINA. Also reduce yout
SKILL by 2 point. If you are still alive, turn to 300

fas
After a long day's ride, your horse is far from fresh
If you stopped to rest and water your horse at the
stream, turn to 77. H you did not stup at the stream
turn to 1g0-

172-173

372
While you sink into unconsciousness, Symm re-
members the stones that vou found. He knows that
certain stones in Allansia can draw the cold from a
body and have been used when others have fallen ta
the touch of an Ice Ghost. He examines them and
Ends one that looks possible. He places it on your
forehead, sits back and waits. Tesf your Luck. If you
are Lucky, turn to 158. IF you are Unlucky, turn to

285.

173
The large rock flies past your head and lands witha
cull thud behind you. The Hill Giant bellows in
anger and reaches for his wooden club to swipe you
otf your horse.

HILL GIANT
& you win, turn to 282.

SKILL g STAMINA 10

SV Sp.

—

r aw
wad

Qt, WH
Sr

174-175

174
Holding your nostrils, you jump into the water and
sink below the surface. Your feet do not touch the
bottom and you kick to reach the surface again. But
something wraps itself around your leg and drags
you under again. A hideous tentacled monster,
created by Razaak himself for his amusement, has
you in its grip. Long, suckered tentacles wrap
around your body, and you are unable to use your

sword to cut yourself free. You struggle in vain
before drowning in the dark pool.

175

The backpack contains 4 Gold Pieces, a candle anda
rolled-up parchment scroll. You place the gold anc
the candle in your backpack and look down imside
the tubular scroll. You see that there is writing on it
if you wish to open the scroll and read the writing,
turn to 268. If you would rather leave the scroll
where it is, you may, if you have not done so
already, either examine the rod (turn to 360) or try
on the helmet (turn to 212). If you would rather
return to your horse, turn to 221.

You follow your own trail back north, and by mid-
atternoon are back where you started. Borri makes a
woke about it, but neither Symm nor yourself feel
mclined to laugh. Without stopping for a rest, you
press on north. Turn tc 3e.

You ate forced to walk in single file down the
cunnel, and have gone aboul twenty metres when
you unknowingly spring a trap. Only Razaak and
his servants know that only one person ata time can
walk down this section of tunmel. A hidden balance
m the floor measures the weight on itand causes the
muddle section to fall away if the maximum weight is
exceeded. The three of vou plunge fifteen metres
down a black pit, landing on iron spikes at the
Dottormn. Allansia is doomed.
178-179

178

Despite the dark sky, you notice a shadow travel
wiftly acress your path. You look up and see a
winged creature, with an eagle-like head and the
dody of a lion, swooping down to attack you. The
creature has a bridle around its head which is held
» the rider, a wild-looking girl wearing animal
kins. The Barbarian girl has a Griffin as her steed,
an aggressive but loyal creature.

PA)

U

GRIFFIN SKILL 10 STAMINA 10

if you win, turn to 230

179
The old man smiles and nods his head with satistac-
hon. ‘This is indeed a monumental task that you
mare set yourselves. And I would like to help you if!
can. l used to have great skills as a reader of symbols
end languages, but the cursed Lord Azzur had my
eves put outin his dungeons under Port Blacksand.

180-181

The wizard Nicodemus managed to secure my m=
lease, but now, of course, my skills are greatly
diminished. But if you have anything written that
vou cannot understand but can read outto me, thes

I'll gladly help you.’ If you have a piece of parch-

ment with strange writing on it, turn to 336- If you
do not possess a piece of parchment, turn to 195,

180

At the bottom of the next hill, you see that the
ground is littered with the large bones of unknows
creatures. Some are piled high, while others are
scattered over a wide area. Suddenly, you notice #
small black-cloaked and hooded figure scurry from
behind one pile of bones to another. "Go away! Go
away!’ he shouts in a voice full of fear, lf you wish t
approach him, tum to 70. If you would rather ride
around the Valley of Bones, turn to 369.

181
You walk around the bottom of the fissure and find
a crack in the wall just wide enough to squeeze
through. You also find a lever protruding from the
wall at the other end of the fissure. If you wish
squeeze through the crack, turn to 396. If you wist
ta pull down on the lever, turn te 321.

182~183

Ze .

W. | a rs L

S

Fr'g7

182
Although you do not feel the effect that the bracelet
Sas on you, it actually magically distorts your

| Perception of vision. Objects appear nearer than

Sey really are. Your fighting ability is naturally
mpaired by wearing the bracelet. Lose 2 SKIL
peints and £ LUCK point. Unaware of your dis-
sdvantage, you decide where to ride next. If you
wesh to search for the Giant's cave, turn to 241. If
you would prefer to ride west along the valley, turn
67.

183
AS you approach the fire, you hear a man’s voice
say, “Halt, or I shall loose an arrow at you.’ It is so
Gark now that you cannot see anybody, You decide
® err on the side of caution, and you pull your horse

ta halt. The man then calls out again: ‘Wise de-

Gson, stranger. Now, tell me, are you a Lawful
character or a servant of Chaos?’ Will you reply
‘TLawtul’ (turn to 308) or ‘Chaotic’ (turn to 270)?
184-186

184
The huge granite door slowly slides open and you
are hit by a gust of cold mist. You see the outline of=
figure shrouded in the mist and walk forward ©
meet it. If you are wearing a bronze talisman around
your neck in the shape of a Horned Demon, turn &
125. If you are not wearing a talisman, turn to 276

185
You wend your way slowly north and two hours
later notice a cave halfway up the hill on the other
side of the valley, If you wish to cross the river &
look at the cave, turn to 97. Hf you would rather
continue following the river, turn to 159.

186

After filling his helmet with water, Borri walks over
to the stone bowl and pours the water on to the
sludve. The rising vapour quickly thickens and fils
the bottom of the fissure with s coud of potsonous
gas, caused by a chemical reaction. You start &
cough uncontrollably, and your eyes stream with
tears. You find yourself unable to breathe and, one
by one, the three of you fall dead to the floor.

187-188

187

You ride slowly up to the Giant, ready to draw your
Sword in case he should suddenly pick up a rack to
Grow at you. When you feel you are close enough,
you drop the Gold Pieces on the ground and urge
your horse into a gallop. The Giant ignores you as
you gallop past him, being much more concerned
wath picking up the gold. When you consider your-
self out of range of the Ciant’s missiles, you slow
your horse down to a walk. Turn to 67.

158
The box is the home of the Troll’s pet spider - a
Geadly tarantula. As you open the box, the spider
sscapes and runs up your arm. You try to knock it

_ ® your arm with the box. Roll two dice. If the total

© the same as or Jess than your SKILL score, turn to
204. If the total is greater than your SK1LL score, turn

| & 305.
189-190

189
You take the bronze key out of your pocket, place it
im the lock and turn it. You try the handle and find
that the door opens despite being locked. Still
puzzied, you walk through the door and find your-
self in a cold chamber which is adorned with statues
of Demons and evil gods. At the far end of the
chamber, a Skeleton is sitting motionless on an
ornate throne. It is wrapped in a purple and gold
gown, and wears a jewelled crown on its skull.
Sehind the throne is a huge granite door. Suddenly,
the jaw of the Skeleton moves and in a deep voice it
says, Tam Ungoth, Skeleton Lord, master of knowl-
edge, guardian of the crypt of the necromancer,
Razaak. What business have you here, worm
being?’ You panic as you try to think of a reply. Lf
you wish to answer that you have been in Port
Blacksand to buy weapons and persuade Lord
Azzur to join Razaak in conquering Allansia, turn to
364. If you would rather attack the Skeleton Lord
with your sword, turn to 223.

tga
Too exhausted to gallop more than halfway up the
mill, your horse slows down to a canter- Itis panting
heavily and in danger of collapsing. Lose 1 LUCK
point. You look behind and see that the Goblins are
fast gaining on you. You have no option but to turn
and fight.

» on

Rm,

191-192

SKILL STAMINA
First GOBLIN 5 5
Second GOBLIN 5 6
Third GOBLIN 6 5
Fourth GOBLIN 6 6

Fight them one at a time on the slope of the hill. If
you win, turn to 155.

191

After waiting ten minutes, you hear the dull clank-
ing sound of chains being pulled along the stone
floor. Soon you see the outline of a figure
approaching from the T-junction; when it passes the
light of a candle, you see thatits Gothes are hanging
in rags and its pallid skin is scarred and peeling. Its
fect are chained together and it seems to labour with
the effort of walking. You realize that the figure is 2
Zombie, no doubt in the service of Razaak. It stops
ten metres in front of you to put a new candle in an
empty holder. lf you wish to attack the Zombie, turn
to1o1. If you wish to creep away and continue down
the tunnel, turn to 217.

192
Unable to grip the armour, the rat falls off your leg
and you kill it quickly with your sword. You walk
over to the chest and look inside. Turn to 211.

=.

193~196

193

Your Crystal of Sanity wards off the mental attack,
and protects the three of you from a terrible tit of
madness. Realizing that the Gargantis is an incred-
ibly powerful beast, you decide to think again about
how best to defeat it. If you still wish to step into the
pit and attack it with your sword, turn to 147. If you
wish to use something else, turn to 375.

194
You soon reach some tree-covered hills. You decide
not to take the risk of being ambushed, and you turn
your horse right to head east once again. Turn to
252.

195

The old man shrugs his shoulders and says, ‘Well,
I'm afraid I can be of no help to you then. Goodbye
and good luck.” You watch him for a moment as he
continues his nimble walk up into the hills, and
think it strange that he does not appear frightened
of walking through the dangerous land alone. You
turn, smile, and follow Symm. Turn to 313.

196

Pretending not to have seen the Hill Men, you ride
casually towards the large rocks. When you are less
than twenty metres away, they suddenly leap up
and fire two arrows from their crude bows. How-
ever, you were prepared for the ambush and duck
down to jet the arrows fly overhead. You draw your

‘Swords and charge at the Hill Men, who angrily run
197-198

at you with their stone clubs. You steer your horse

towards the nearer of the two who is dressed im
animal furs.

WILD HILL MAN
Tf you win, turn to 200.

Skint 6 STAMINA S

197
As soon as you place the helmet on your head. #

seems to mould itself to your skull and grips =

tightly. Try as you might, you are unable to take #
aff. You are un enough to be wearing 2
Helmet of Cowardice, From now on, each time you

face a creature in combat, roll two dice. Lf the total is _

the same as or less than your SKIL1 score, you will

summon up enough courage to fight. If the tote] = —
greater than yoursx111, you will offer no resistance |

to the creature, and death will quickly follow. Lose2

LUCK points, Regretting your foolish decision, you”

walk on along the tunnel. Turn to 281.

ig8
in a bored tone, you reply that you have no idea
how much a war-hammer costs. ‘Thirty-five Gold

Pieces, | tell you!’ Borti says excitedly. Tt’s ridica-

lous. For that you can buy a good pair of leather
boots, a sword and a shield, and still have change
left for a hot meal and a flagon of ale in a tavern
When | get home, I'm going to become a blacksmith

and specialize in weapons.’ Borri rambles on for the

next two hours, telling Dwarf legends and tales of
his life. But suddenly, Symm points west and

199-201

shouts, “Look! A speck in the sky and it's moving

towards us! When you focus your eyes on the
object in the sky, your heart sinks. furn to 152.

199
The cold tunnel is illuminated by black candles set
ten metres apart. You walk on until you come to a

huge stone chair carved in the shape of a goat-
headed Demon. If you wish to sit in the chair, turn

t© 26. If you would rather keep on walking, turn to

You look round and see that Symm has also dis-
patched his assailant. He collects cight arrows from
the Mill Men's quivers before you continue your ride
west. Turn to 148.

201
The whirlwind passes directly overhead, picking

you up and carrying you along with a mass of

swirling debris. You are carried some five hundred
metres before being dropped, already dead from a
Severe blow to the side of the head from a rockin the
core of the whirlwind.
SSRI TE: +

2... a

202-203

202
The object lying against the wall is a corpse, and
mrge rats are climbing all over it. The corpse is clad
= leather armour, but two arrows stick ominously
sut of its back. A leather pouch and a cloth sack are
empty. and there are no weapons to be found.
However, Symm notices that the left hand of the
Sedy is clenched shut, and alter prising it open, he
ands a bone amulet in the shape of a beetle. He
Sands it to you, saying that he would rather trust in
ais sword than a trinket to protect him. If you wish
® keep the amulet, turn to 86. If you would rather
ave it with its former owner and walk along the
ether branch of the tunnel, turn to 315.

203
You trot between tall, gnarled trees into thick
undergrowth. It is dark and eerie in the wood, with
what little light there is outside virtually shut out by
the crowded tree-tops. You pull your horse toa halt,
and have 2 strong feeling that you are being
watched. Keeping a constant watch all around you,
you urge your horse to walk on. Turn to 365.

eee

You flick the spider off your arms and crush =
underfoot. ‘Trolls,’ says Borri shaking his head

‘Only Trolls are stupid enough to have poisonous
spiders as pets. I suppose he kerps a rattlesnake
the cart!’ If you wish to tip up the cart, turn to 366. &

you would rather walk on, leaving the cart behing,
turn to 40,

205
You force the box open by breaking the hinges with

your sword. There is nothing inside excep! for =

small clay doll, Lf you wish to take the doll, turn &

299. If you would rather ride on without it, turn

339-
206

You are obviously unworthy of owning magic
items, if you do not know what they are. Since

you're unable to activate the magic rod, you must
rely once again on your sword. Tum to 147.

207-209

207
As you approach the sack. you suddenly hear a
weiling scream. Swinging down on a vine attached
% 2 nearby tree is a huge hair-covered humanoid
wearing little more than an animal-hide Ioincloth
“nd cerrying a large bone club. [he Ape Man

‘rashes into you and knocks you off your horse. Test

weer Luck. If you are Lucky, tum to 83. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 219.

208

Tou hand the Bonekeeper the knife, He examines it
erefully, grunts in satisfaction and unties a leather
peuch which is hanging around his neck. He hands
you a ring made of highly polished bone which hasa
full moon carved into its surface. ‘Protect you from
Werewolves, that will,’ he says very proudly, ‘Just
point it at the Werewolf and say “One, two, three;
turn and flee.” That's all.” You thank the Bone-
seeper for the ring, bid him farewell and ride out of
the Valley of Bones. Turn to 369.

209
An instant before your death, you see a blinding
white light as a jagged bolt of lightning flies from
Razaak's fingertips, through your magic barrier and
mito your chest. } in the world could have
survived such a blast of energy.

i. PF

210-211

210

After Darkwood Forest is left behind, you pass over
the western edge of Moonstone Hills where two
days previously you had made your dangerous

trek. The Forest of Spiders looms on the horizon and -

looks much the same as Darkwood Forest as you
drift above the tree-tops. You soon leave the forest
behind and, after crossing the southern edge of
Moonstone Hills, begin your journey over the Flat-
lands. The hours pass by, and you are lulled into
false sense of security by the peaceful flight. As you
look south-east towards the Plain of Bronze, how-

ever, the clouds seem darker than ever. The wind —

suddenly begins to gust and in minutes a gale &

blowing, ‘If it doesn’t subside soon, we'll have to

land,’ yells Borri. Suddenly, you see a grey, swirling
column on the horizon which is moving quickly
towards you. ‘It's a whirlwind!’ shouts Bor. Tm

going to land before it hits us. It can’t be more than

three minutes away.’ Roll one die to determine how
many minutes it takes you to land. If you roll 1 or 2,
turn to 43. Ff you roll 3-6, turn to 114.

a —

211
The chest contains two

written on it in a language you do not understand.

At the bottom of the parchment you see the number

66. You soon tire of trying to read the parchment

skulls and 2
small metal box. You take the lid off the box and find»

an old piece of faded parchment with something

212-213

and decide what to do next. You may either break
the globe, if you have not done so already (turn to
367), or leave the cave (turn te 386).

212

Symm and Borri are both unscathed, apart from a
gash in Bormi’s arm, But the adventurer is close to
death, with a flint dagger protruding from his
stomach. ‘Is one of you the wielder of Razaak’s
sword?’ he asks weakly, You reply that you are
carrying the sword. ‘Then my mission will be com-
pieted. I have a message for you from Yaztromo. If
you slay Razaak, escape from the crypt immediate-
ty, or else you will perish.’ The brave adventurer
does not say another word and dies before you can
even thank him. The knowledge that Yaztromo is
stil helping you, even from afar, fills you with
determination, and you set off boldly once again.
Turn to 262.

213

Your onslaught has the desired effect. The cowardly
Goblins, no fonger at an advantage, turn and flee
atter remounting their horses. Soon allis quiet again
and you are able to continue your quest. if you wish
to keep riding east, urn to 280. If you would rather
nde back down the hill and head north towards the
small wood you can see in the valley, turn to 203.

214-216

214
You follow the winding tunnel, with the hammer-
me sound growing louder in your ears. Soon you
See moving figures, although nobody seems to
motice your presence. Two thin men with pallid skin
are digging at the face of the tunnel with pickaxes,
and another is loading rocks into a wheelbarrow.
You walk forward and notice that the tunnellers
Save bulging eyes which are wide open and vacant.
‘The Doragar must be the slave-masters who super-
wsse these Zombies’ work on the tunnels,’ says
Symm. ‘But for whom? The Gargantis? Anyway, we
have obviously reached the end of this tunnel, sowe
might as weil turn round and walk back to the
penction.” If you wish to do as Symm suggests, turn
% 338. If you would rather walk up to the Zombies,
turn to 256.

215

You have not ridden far into the wood when you
come to a clearing. Much to your excitement, you
see that it is a long-abendoned graveyard. Weeds
and grasses grow tall, almost concealing the broken
and moss-covered gravestones. You draw your
swords and walk towards the nearest gravestone. If
you are wearing a bone ring with a skull etched into
=. turn to 139. If you are not wearing this ring, turn
© 333-

216
You emerge from the trees and head further east
mito the never-ending hills. Turn to 252.
217-219

217

The tunnel ends at the edge of a pit which is filled
with foul-smelling black water. There does not
appear to be any way of progressing further. If you
wish to turn back and walk past the T-junction and
along the other branch of the tunnel, turn to 199. If
you wish te risk jumping into the water-filled pit.
turn to 174.

218
The back of your head lands against a sharp rock
and you are knocked unconscious. You are bound
and robbed and left for the vultures by the unseen
Chameleonites that your horse sensed were about
to ambush you. Unknowingly, they have con-
demned Allansia to eternal doom.

219
Your sword is knocked out of your hand by the Ape
Man and you must fight him barehanded.
APE MAN skit 8 STAMIKAT

Reduce your SkILt by 2 for this combat. After three
Attack Rounds, turn to 254.

You stagger back to the edge of the pit, panting
heavily and drenched in sweat. Borri and Symm are
cheering loudly, although you can hardly hear them
due to exhaustion. They help you climb up on tu the
edge and then Symm jumps into the pit to sever the
Gargantis’s horn. You have just about recovered
trom your ordeal when he hands you the fabled
horn with a smile spread across his face. You marvel
atits beauty before tucking it in your belt. ‘Let’s go!”
you say, and lead your two friends back down the
tunnel. Passing between the Skeleton statues does
mot produce a further appearance of the Ice Ghosts,
and you hurry on. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 54. If you are Unlucky, turn to 138.

221
Much to your relief, your horse is still tied up to the
tree and appears to be contentedly munching the
grass. You waste no more time, mount your horse
and set off once again. Turn to 168.
222-224

222
The tunnel slopes downwards. The light is dim,
coming from candles burning on top of skulls
mounted on the wall at thirty-metre intervals. Your
own torches burn brightly around you, but you are
unable to see far down the tunnel — nor do you se
the strange, jelly-like creature which is clinging to
the ceiling. As you pass underneath, it drops down.
Roll one die. If you roll 1-5, turn to 296. If you roll 6,
turn to 166.

223
As soon as you raise your sword-arm, your muscles
tense up and you find yourself unable to move
Your limbs stiffen, becoming harder and harder
until you have completely turned to stone to join the
other statues in the chamber.

224

You have the misfortune of being abandoned at the
base of a Giant Pitcher-Plant, an enormouscamivor
ous plant which resembles a three-metre-high vase.
covered in vines and creepers. A giant tendril coi
out of its slimy insides and wraps itself around you.
It picks you up with ease and pulls you deep inside
the plant's digestive tract, where acidic juices im
mediately start to dissolve you.

225

5

Your outstretched hands grab hold of a branch, and
you manage to stop yourself from falling to what
would be certain death. Testing each branch to
make sure that it will bear your weight, you climb
slowly down the tree. Borti looks up at the tattered
remains of his balloon hanging in the tree and says,
T won't be flying that balloon again. Ah well, never
mind. I'll just have to make another when | get
home.” However, home seems a long way away
when you have just dropped into the middle of the
Forest of Spiders. You decide to take the initiative
and tell Symm and Born to follow you, although in
tuth you have no idea which way to head. Turn to
15

226-228

226
The balloon seems to climb agonizingly slowly into
the sky and as you look over the side of the basket,
you see the six Hobdgoblins, who have dismounted,
@osing their arrows at you. Roll one die to deter-
mune the number of arrows that reach their target.
Then for each one on target, roll the die again. If you
moll 1-5, the arrow lodges itself into the basket. If
you roll 6, the arrow will hit you. Lose 2 STAMINA
peints for each arrow that hits you. If you are still
2ive, turn to 294-

227
The Spirit Avenger’s throw is deadly accurate. The
Gegger pierces your heart and the Bonekeeper is
avenged.

228

Tou lift the trapdoor and stand back ready with your
sword. You hear a high-pitched growl and then,
suddenly, a large beast leaps up through the trap-
Goor into the chamber. It has flame-red fur and is
cat-like in appearance, with long, sharp claws and
teeth. The Hellcat also has scarlet eyes which it uses
& instil fear into its prey. Roll one die. If you roll
t-4, turn to 251. If you roll 5 or 6, turn to 340.

_—_

229~239

229
You trudge slowly across the Flatlands for the rest of
the day without finding the tunnels. Lose 1 Luce
point. That night the mood around the
glum and hardly a word ts spoken. In the morning
you discuss the problem and decde to vote om
which way to head. Roll one die for Borri. If the
number is odd, he will vote to head narth. If the
number is even he will vote to head south. Repeat
this for Symm. Now you have the ing vote,
unless you are already out-voted by the other two
both wanting to head either north or south. If the

party votes to go north, turn to 176. If it votes to

keep going south, turn to 17.

230
In its death-throes, the Griffin soars up into the sky,
before plummeting to the ground like a stone some

two hundred metres away. You do not see the

Barbarian girl get up from the ground, and assume
that she is either injured or dead. If you wish to ride

over to investigaic, turn to 358. If you would rather

ride towards the lake, turn to 29-

231-233

231
Aer your short combat, Borri takes over the watch,
Sut you fail to get a good night's sleep. In the
morning, you still feel tired, and your spirits aren’t
Med by the sight of yet another dull grey sky. You
set off for the hills and reach them in less than
Seenty minutes. As you walk past the entrance toa
Small cave, you notice a robed figure following you.
H you wish to wait and meet whoeveris behind you,
tm to 167. If vou would rather walk on, turn to 313.

23
You fend off the arms with your sword and then
‘ange forward to attack the Demon of the woods.

WOOD DEMON
= you win, turn to 89-

SKILL 9 STAMINA 10

233
As you make your way out of the crypt, you hear a
tembling sound, and small stones and dirt fall from
the ceiling. You realize that the tunnels are about to
ve in and you must nun for your life. If your
Gurrent stamina is 6 or higher, turn to goo. If your
Current STAMINA is less than 6, turn to 58.

234-236

The rest of the day passes without any problems
and it is almost nightfall when Stonebridge comes
into view. If you wish to camp outside Stonebridge.
turn to g2. If you would rather ride inte
Stonebridge, turn to 316.

235
Relieved to be outside in the open air, you jump on
to your horse and ride down the hill to follow the
river further along the valley. Turn to 284-

236

You totter on the edge of the pit, but the force of the
blow is such that you are unable to regain your
balance. You fall off the iedge into the slime-filled

pit, where you are crushed underfoot by the

Gargantis.

237-238

237

Tou peer into the forest, but see nobody. Suddenly
Me voice speaks again, saying, ‘No, you cannot see
me. because I am invisible, I. am a Suma, a spirit
Som another mayical plane. The Forces of Chaos
@e2inst you are great and | felt it my duty to help
you. Yaztromo has been kidnapped by the servants
@ Razaak and taken from the hut into the forest to
Se sacificed. Ride north from here into the forest
and you will save him. A trap awaits you at the hut.
That is all T can say to help you- 1 am allowed to help
you once more, and should you need me, call out
“Suma 11" ~ that’s my number, Goodbye and good
feck.” You call out to the Suma for more infor-
metion, but get no reply. If you wish to ride north
@to the forest, turn to 377. If you would rather ride
om to the wooden hut, turn to 68.

238
Atthough they cannot see you, the three creatures

approaching have 2 keen sense of smell and pick up
your scent on the breeze blowing down the tunnel.
You see that they have the bodies of humans, but
the heads of rats. They are covered in short fur and
have long rat-like tails. They pretend to walk past
the alcove, but suddenly turn to attack you, each
choosing a separate opponent.

SKILL 5 STAMINA 6

Reduce your sxILt by 2 for the first Attack Round,
as the Rat Man has the mitiative. If you win, turn to
22.
239-240

239
The stene-coloured Chameleonites bound forward
on two legs with strange, jerky movements, Their
pulbous eyes and long tongues protrude from their
reptan heads, and their bodies are covered with
scales. But they are humanwid in shape and each
cames a stone club with which to attack you.

SKILL STAMINA

First CHIAMELEONITE 7 7
Second CHAMELEONITE 6 6
Third CHAMELEONITE 7 h

Might them one at a titme. Hf you are still on horse-
back, add 2 to your Attack Strength during each
round of combat. If you win, turn to 356.

240
it is pitch-black inside the lair, and you cannot tell
how far it is to the bottom. Lying on the chamber
Soor, you reach down into the lair with your sword
and touch the bottom two metres below. You lower
yourself down while Borri offes advice from above:
Be cereful. Use your sword to tap the ground in
front of you, if you can't see. Don’t wander too far,
Don't go out of earshot. And hurry up.” You dis-
cover that the lair is very small and is empty apart
trom a metal object which you find on the floor. You
are unable to deduce what it is by touch. If you wish
t take the metal object with you when yau climb
pul of the lair, turn to 370. If you would rather climb
eut of the lair without it, turn to 344.
241-242

243
You ride up and down the valley, scouring the
hillside for the Giant's cave. After half an hour, you
find the entrance hidden behind a cluster of bushes.
After tying your horse toone of the bushes, you step

warily into the caves — the Hill Giant may not have
lived alone. Two torches mounted on the rough
t the cave and enable you to survey

stone walls ligh
the Giant's lair. A pile of straw at the back seems to
have been the Giant’s bed, and there is also a rough

wooden table; on the ground around the table lies

an ominous pile of human bones. Behind the table

you see a wooden chest and in an alcove you find =

strange glass globe which contains swirling smoke
Will you:

Open the chest?

Break the globe?

Leave the cave without the globe?

242
In seconds you are completely covered with fly:
insects. You can hardly breathe or see as they
into your mouth and sting your face. You cut y
sword through the air in desperation, but there i
little you can do. You are stung time and time aga
until you drop dead to the floor. The necromancers
victorious,

243-244

243

Between them, the Orcs have 6 Gold Pieces, a knife,
2 pouch of rats’ skulls, an empty bottle and half a
Spit-roasted chicken up in an old shirt.
You take what you want and look at the chicken. If
you wish to eat it, turn to 322. If you would rather
‘eave it for the scavengers and continue riding east,
turn to 2136.

244
Walking as quietly as possible, you creep into the
Shadow of the trees in the direction of the cries.
Symm calls to you, saying that he has
Sumbled over the body of a man. You carry the man
back to the firelight and see that his body is covered
woth deep gashes. He is an old man with a long
teard and a weather-beaten face. You dress his
wounds as best you can and give him a tot of your
Healing Potion. Whether he is unconscious or
asleep you cannot tell, but he does not stir again
entil morming. He wakes with a groan and says, ina
Sboured voice, ‘Thank you for saving me,
Strangers. Yesterday afternoon | was on my way to
my friend's tower, taking a short cut through the
Serest, when | was mauled by a bear. I should have
‘mown better than to walk through Darkwood
forest. My name is Budron.’ ‘Budron!’ shouts
: excitedly. ‘We were waiting for you with
Teztromo, What fortune that we have found you!’
Add 1 1.uc«K point. Budron tells you that he is able to
evel and volunteers to ride behind Symm on his
>. You nde on past Darkwood Forest and then
245

head north-west until Budron finally tells you to
stop, sometime during the afternoon. ‘This is as far

as Ego. The graveyard is situated in a Gearing in the
middle of that wood,” he says, pointing a finger
northwards. ‘I'm too superstitious to enter that
wood, and so I'll say goodbye and wish you weil’
You cannot persuade Budron to stay with you, and
you watch him limp off back the way you <came.
With a slight hesitation, you urge your horses into
the wood. You soon come to the clearing, where
you see the graveyard which has long since been
abandoned. The gravestones are broken and moss
covered, and weeds and grasses grow tall You
draw your swords and walk carefully towards the
nearest gravestone. If you are wearing a bone ring
with a skull etched into it, turn to 139. If you are not

wearing this ring, turn to 333-

A
245
With the Ice Ghosts out of the tunnel, all is quiet

again, ‘I don‘t suppose many people know that the

Howling Tunnels get their name because they are
inhabited by Ice Ghosts,’ says Borri in a more cheer
ful voice. ‘But I hope they don’t come back. Look
there are two more statues of Skeleton Warriors
further down the tunnel!’ lf you wish to pass b=

tween the statues, turn to 56. If you wish to stay

where you are and ask Symm to search for a possible
secret passage, turn to 112.

246-248

246

The Spirit Avenger’s throw is almost deadly: the
éegger sinks into your shoulder only centimetres
way from your heart. Lose 45TAMINA points. But
gust as quickly as the cloak rose, it drops back to the
ground and stays motionless. If you have not done
se already, you may try on either the Moon Ring
(turn to to) or the Skull Ring (turn to 265), Other-
wise you may ride east out of the cursed Valley of
Sones (turn to 369).

247
A sudden gust of wind blows the balloon away from

the gap in the trees where Bormiis trying toland. ‘he
basket is dragged through the tree-tops, becomes
entangled and tips up. You are thrown out and fall
to your death some thirty metres belaw-

248

You walk down the tunnel for what seems like ages,
until you walk through a transparent screen which
2ppears to pop like a giant soap bubble. You turn ta
walk back, but are unable to do so, your way barred
>y an invisible barrier- You find yourself no longer
im 2 tunnel but in 2 black void. Ghostly faces appear
and then suddenly disappear. Imps, Demons and
other hideous creatures gather around you, and you
realize that you are trapped on a magical Plane of
Evil which you have entered through a dimension
gateway built by Razaak as an escape-route from
Titan. You are daomed.
249-250

249
, you see movement in the tall, wet grass and

me aware of a loud buzzing noise. Six large,
ted, black Harpoon Flies suddenly rise into the
_ each the size of a pigeon. Although their heads
sar to have an elongated proboscis, it is actually
poisoned, needle-like spike which Harpoon Flies
shoot ata target. They can only grow one needle
time, and it takes a week for the needle to grow
after it has been fired. The poison paralyses the
Flies’ victims, and female Harpoon Flies
n lay their eggs under the skin so that the mag-
will have plenty of meat to feed on when they
h. Roll one die to determine how many needles
m you. If you are hit by one or two needles, turn to
. If you are hit by three or four needles, turn to
. Lf you are hit by five or six needles, turn to 13,

250
search the outpost and find a hunting-horn and
lantern. You decide to take both items, together
a crossbow and four bolts. The village is no
than three hundred metres away, but there is
graveyard in sight. Not wishing to risk certain
re inside Mirewater, you ride in a circle around
ali the way back to the outpost, but still do not
@eme across the graveyard. Symm sighs and says,
‘Let's head for Stonebridge.’ You ride north until
251-252 253-255

you reach Red River, and after crossing il, nc
east towards Stonebridge. Night is falling

Stonebridge finally comes into view. lf you wish
camp outside Stonebridge, tum to 92. If you wou
rather give up your search for the graveyard

REWOLF SKILL § STAMINA 9

| you win, but suffer any wounds at all from the
Werewolf, turn to 275. lf you win without being
en by the Werewolf, turn to 36.

ride into Stonebridge, turn to 316. 253
- =e Hobgoblin just misses your foot and falls to the
35 sScund with a thump. To the cheers of Borri and

You are transfixed by fear, unable to move a musc
Your eyes are locked wide open in horror as
Hellcat starts to maul you. It stands up on its hir

legs and sinks its long fangs deep into your Aros
Razaak's pet has sealed the fate of Allansia-

m, you haul yourself up the rope and scramble
to the basket. Turn to 226,

254
m at last manages to land a blow on the Ape
without fear of injuring you. He plunges his
emger into the Ape Man's neck and you watch it

mp to the ground, a coarse gurgling sound
eming from its throat. Symm then cuts down the
eather sack and inside finds some polished stones
ich you may take, if you wish, before riding on.
Zurn to 37.

252
The rest of the day passes without inddent, az
without sight of the Lost Lake either. In the
light, you chouse a suitable place to camp down for
the night, making sure that your horse is x
tethered to a nearby tree. You settle down to sleeg
but are woken in the middle of the night by =
howling cry. Your eyes open to see a full moon, ar
in an instant you are standing, sword in hand. Ye
feel your heart beating fast as you strain your eve
and ears. Suddenly, you hear the sound of a
snapping and then a low growl. You see a shade
move, and in the dim light recognize the thic
brown hair, long fangs and bestial features of
Werewolf. If you are wearing a Moon Ring af
know how to.use il, tum to the number stated in the
spell, If you are unable to do this, you must fight

Werewolf with your sword.

235

tou urge your horse into the river and are soon on
¢ far bank. After a while you reach the top of the
st hill and look east, towards what seems a never-
ding range of hills. As you start your descent, you
2 small wooden hut partly hidden by the trees.
he root has caved in and there are no visible signs
lic. Ifyou wish toenter the hut, turn to 332. Ifyou
suld rather ride on by, turn to 53.
ee ee

256-258 259-260

256 -™@ apprentice to the wizard Covax of Zenyis. Heisa
You walk up to the Zombie who is loading the 7 ‘Secialist in long life and sent me into the hills in
wheelbarrow. It does not stop working and acts sarch of rare herbs, Unfortunately, I was
though you do not exist. You walk past it to whem 7 ==> d by Goblins. They took nearly everything

the other two are working at the face and suddenly 7 Sia), St acest at sana cals pophenstion —a
notice that all of them have the figure ‘s’ tattooed c = of healing powder.’ You watch as Jella opens a
their arms. You make a mental note of the number J) Small tin and offers you a pinch of brown powder, If
before returning to your friends. You decide that 3 want to swallow some of the powder, turn to
there is nothing else to do except walk back to th if you would rather bid her farewell and resume
junction. Turn to 338. our journey, turn to 382.

257 259
Not long after midnight, while you are standing] You are blasted by the ball of fire, which burns a
watch, you hear the soft fluttering of wings. Fre ack hole in your leg. You scream in pain as Razaak

out of the dark shadows, a Vampire Bat sw
down to drink your blood.

VAMPIRE BAT SKILL 5 STAMINAZ
If you win, turn to 231.

Seases another fireball. Again you are hit, and this
© the result is fatal. You have failed in your quest-

256
The woman is soon free and thanks you for res
her. But you keep your sword in your hand.
many an adventurer in Allansia has died in the past
due to trickery. The woman notices your suspice
and says, ‘Mv name is Jella and I am a Half-Eif.1

= powerful arms of the Demon tighten around
..* Si wibchitt na pic ssupaleas Wick as Coie. At
=t you manage to pull it from your belt and begin
ig furiously.

WOOD DEMON SKILL 9 STAMINA £0

Seduce your SKILL by 2 points for the duration of

= combat because of the vice-like grip in which
wu are imprisoned. If you win, you sigh with relief
ed pick up your sword. Turn to 89.

Ee
261-263

261

Tou soon reach some wooded hills which, however
unwillingly, you will have to ride through to con-
mnue going east. No more than one hundred metres
mto the trees, you suddenly hear a blood-curdling
yell above you, and look up to see an Orc leap down
mom the branch of a tree to ambush you. Two others
man out from behind other trees with their swords
grawn. Roll one die. If you roll 1-3, turn to 120. If
you roll 4—6, turn to 62.

262

Symm finds a crack in the wall just wide enough to
Squeeze through. “Come on,” he says, ‘let’s go
through here- I can see light.’ If you wish to follow
symm through the crack in the wall, turn to 347. If
you would rather keep looking around at the bot-
tom of the fissure for an alternative passageway,
urn to 61.

263
The unseen man is a skilled bowman. Despite the
Garkness, he is invariably lethal at such a short
range. This time is no exception and his arrow
peerces your neck, killing you instantly.

-— Ee =

264-266 267-268

264
The tunnel soon ends at a Tunction-. If you want to
go left, turn to 156, Lf you want to go night, turn to

199.

265

With the extra weight and the painas the Hobgoblin
Mites and claws at your leg, you lose hold of the
m=pe. You plunge to the ground, where you are set
@pon by the other Tobgoblins. You are quickly put
® death and your possessions are divided up. Help-
s in the rising balloon, there is nothing Borri and
Symm can do to help, and they alone know that the
ture of Allansia is lost with your demise and the
capture of Razaak’s sword.

265
You place the ring on your finger and try to release 2
magical power from it. But nothing happens. If you
have not done so already, you may try on either the
Moon Ring (turn to 10) or the Dagger Ring (turn to
94). Lf you would rather ride east out of the Valley ot
Bones, turn to 369.

266

Borri spends the next five minutes muttering te
himself, calling Trolls all the bad names he can think
af. ‘Why would anyone want to do that?’ exclaims
Borri suddenly. “Did you know that the Allansiaa
record for the number of Hobbits’ ears caten by 2
‘Troll in a competition is one hundred and nineteen!
The lengths that Trolls will go tv for fame! Come on,
let's go.’ Born suddenly marches off, throwing
book over his shoulder. You and Symm hurry aft
him, with Symm asking Born if he is the shortest
Dwarfin Allansia. “Mind your own business,’ snaps
Borri, still marching ahead. Turn to 40.

The scroll relates the tale of the fabled Gargantis
Seast and its miraculous horn. Although there is no
wate proof that the creature exists, rumours
it have been circulating for centuries, It is said
® have a lumpy, green hide, and looks like a cross
‘een a Pit Fiend and a Flesh Golem, but with the
ition of a single horn in the centre of its fore-
head. The Gargantis’s horn is said to possess many

ical and mysterious powers, which it wauld
wetain even if severed from the Gargantis’s head.
Anyone in possession of the horn, upon wielding it,
release these powers. You have heard of this
st, but are amazed to read on the scroll that one
Such creature is purported to dwell in the Howling
unnels of the Western Flatlands, Perhaps the poor

_—— "

269

adventurer who owned the scroll was on his way
the Flatlands when he met an untimely death in th
woods. You put the scroll in your backpack :

consider what ta do next. If you have not done se
already, you may either examine the rod (tum
360) or try on the helmet (turn to 121). If you wou
rather return to your horse, turn to 221.

270-274

269

You follow the trail of blood around the bend of tt
tunnel until you reach the edge of a dark pit. Your
torches fail to light up the bottom, but there is ne 4 ne unseen man speaks to you ina cold voice: ‘Any
doubt that something is down there, gnawing c Servant of Chaos is an enemy of Allansia." You
bones. The unseen creature senses your present nome: warily hear the flight of the arrow before it
and makes deep, Inathsome, Burgling noises. es your neck and kills you.

"Maybe it’s the Gargantis beast,’ Bor
‘I've got a length of rope here if cither of you want te
climb down. I'm too fat to dimb down there.” Symm
stares coldly at the Dwarf and says, ‘I ought
throw you down there to distract its attention whi

271
You see 2 flash of white light as a jagged bolt of
Sghming blasts from Razaak’s fingertips. But in-
_ Sead of killmg you mstantly, the lightning is drawn
we climb down!’ ‘Only joking,” laughs Born nem » your shield and is harmlessly discharged. Even
vously. You decide to interject, and youargue that® 9 om Razaak’s deformed face, you can see a hint of
it is the Gargantis beast at the bottom of the pit, them ory. He hesitates for a second, and seizing your
the pit must be accessible from the bottom — th unity, you rush at him with his own sword.
Gargantis would not have jumped down. But wh =noring the blows of the sword, his only concern is
controls these tunnels? Is it the Gargantis itself, oF > touch vou with his fingers.

does another being hold the Gargantis captive :
Naticds han scransnents ‘Well, whatchould we domme ZAAK nan ESE aD
asks Bor. If you wish to volunteer to be lowered

® Razaak wins two consecutive Attack Rounds al

down the pit by rope, turn to 117. If you woule y time during combat, turn to 14. If you win
rather walk back to the main tunnel, turn left an thout losing two consecutive Attack Rounds,
walk past the junction, turn to 222- Turn to 84.
272-273

You break out in a sudden sweat and are soon
consumed by fever. You feel weak and are forced to
lie down, shaking uncontrollably. The ordeal lasts
an hour and weakens you considerably. Lose =
SKILL point and 4 STAMINA points. But at least you
have the consolation of being able to camouflage
yourself. With vour spirits still high, you turn your
horse east. Turn to 1Bo.

273
You are soon at the edge of the wood, but cannot <=

far into it. Will you:

Enter the wood? Turn to 215
Ride west towards Mirewater? Turn to 6
Ride north-eas! towards

Stonebridge? Turn to 363

274-275

274
You look around and find an alcove in the shadows,
= you wish to hide in the alcove, turn to 238, If you
wish to face whoever is walking towards you, turn
& 2.

The wretched humans who are afflicted by lycan-
thropy are forced to turn into savage Werewolves
when the full moon rises. Anyone bitten by a Were-
wolf is likely to turn into one himself or herself. If
you are wearing a Crystal of Sanity, you will be
mmune to the disease (turn to 36). Otherwise, if
you havea candle, turn to 91. If you have neither the
stystal nor the candle, turn to 317.

276-277

276

The figure steps slowly towards you and then
through the mist you see that it is your old friend,
the great wizard Yaztromo. ‘Hello,’ he says in a
jovial voice. “You didn’t expect to find me here, did
you?’ If you are wearing a gold ring set with an
midescent jewel, turn to 326. If you are not wearing
tus ring, turn to 164.

277
The horsemen hall the caravan and send a wagon Lo
pick up Borri and the balloon. Soon the three of you
are reunited and riding across the barren plain
towards the Flatlands. Borri unfolds some cloth to
reveal some juicy red berries and offers you some.
>ymum looks at them in horrorand shouts, ‘Don’teat
those! They're mad-mad berries, guaranteed tu
send you completely insane! He grabs them from
Sern and throws them over the side of the wagon. ‘T
thought they were a local delicacy,’ says Borri,
woking suddenly shocked. ‘Good job | didn’t eat
any before.” The hours pass by and you discuss your
chances of finding the Howling Tunnels. A little boy
277 278

riding in the wagon with you suddenly speaks for
the first time, and says, ‘I know where there are
some tunnels. Give me a present and I'll tell you
when we pass them.’ With nothing to lose (apart
from one of your possessions) you agree and free
hopeful once again. Towards the end of the follow-
ing, afternoon, the caravan still rolling across the
Western Flatlands, the boy sits up in the wagon,
points at a hillock in the distance and yells, ‘Over
there! The tunnels are over there!” You tell the driver
of the wagon to stop, and two minutes later the
three of you are alone, watching the caravan dis-
appear in a cloud of dust. You manage to drag the
balloon and basket to the hillock and shout for joy
when you see the entrance to.a tunnel. ‘I can't hear
anything,’ says Borri. ‘T thought these tunnels were
supposed to how.’ “Let's wait until we are inside at
least, you short fat impatient oaf,’ laughs Symm
‘Maybe when you see the Gargantis beast, vow 7
start to howl!’ After hiding the balloon im the cn
trance, you draw your swords, light torches that
you have brought with you and walk guardediy
down the tunnel. Five minutes later, you arrive até
junction. If you wish to tum left, turn to 222. If you
wish to tum right, turn to go-

278
As the Demonspawn drops to the ground, its body
sins to shrivel, hissing and steaming, until it is
pothing but a pool of foul-smelling stime. A
shudder runs down your spine as you walk over to
Yaztromo and untie him. ‘Bravo,’ the old wizard
ssys with a smile, shaking your hand vigorously
Sespite his ordeal. ‘My magic would not work
@gainst this creature from Hell. Either I am losing
my touch, or Razaak has greater powers than |
Sought. Never mind, we must not flinch from our
task. Now, tell me, how did you find the Lost Lake,
who is your friend here?’ You tell Yaztramo
t your journey and how you came to mect
Symm. Yaztromo looks pleased and says, ‘Well, I
aid find out a few things about our friend Razaak.
He will be a most formidable opponent for you - if
get past the minions who protect him. Not only
will you have to slay him with his own sword, but
his heart must be pierced by the horn of a Gargantis
beast. According to fables, the Gargantis is a rare
creature that lives underground — but I have not the
Tintest idea if any even exist. It is virtually invulner-
able to weapons and vou may have to use magic so
Mat its horn can be cut off. Only then will it dic.
Now let's leave this infernal forest and return to my
tower, where a friend of mine should be waiting for
ws. itis not long before you are back at the tower,
But there is nobody there to grect you. ‘Strange,’
mutters Yaztromo with a frown on his face. ‘Budron
Should be here by now. | hope he hasn’t come to
any harm. He knows where the haunted graveyard

279

is and that’s important. It might help to read the:
gravestone of Razaak’s father Tamal. ! think th

Stonebridge, but I can’t be sure.” He offers you

choice between staying here overnight to see &
Budron tums up in the morning (turn to 341)
setting off now (turn to 157).

279

You find the balloon and basket where you
them, and drag them out of the tunnel entrance ane
down the hillock. ‘We must build a huge fire so that
we can inflate the balloon with hot air,’ Born sey=
authoritatively. ‘I'll lay out the balloon while you
two gather some wood.’ It takes you nearly three
hours to scour the barren plain and find enough
wood to build a decent fire, but at last you are ready
Born takes a metal pipe out of the basket, connects
to the neck of the balloon, and suspends the othe
end over the fire. The balloon soon fills with hot a=
and is nearly inflated, when you suddenly see dust
eee eee oe ay hae :
approaching,’ Symm says calmly. ‘I you a
nearly ready, Borri.’ The horses quickly come in

view and you see that there are six, cach bem

280-281

mdden hard by a Hobgoblin. Borri orders you to
untie the rope which is holding the balloon fast toa
mee-stump, and then climb up the rope as the
balloon ascends. But the strain on the rope makes it
difficult to untie, and you waste valuable seconds
defore deciding to cut through it with your sword.
You are suddenly jolted upwards by the rope, while
at the same time a Hobgoblin rides underneath you
and leaps out of the saddle to try to grab your legs.
Roll two dice. Lf the total is the same as or less than
your SKILL, turn to 253. Lf the total is greater than
your SKILL, turn to 331.

280

in the next valley you entera small wood, which has
an abundance of flowers and plants, although none
of them is pleasing to the eye. Some are diseased,
others are covered with thors, and some emil a
foul smell. All of them appear to be strangled by
creepers. Although you cannot see anybody, you
suddenly hear high-pitched twittering voices. You
draw your sword and ride towards where you think
the sounds are coming from. A bush moves and you
catch a glimpse of a tiny dark figure before it dis-
@ppears into the undergrowth. If you wish to follow
the figure, turn to 18. If you would rather gallop
through the glade as fast as possible, turn to 73.

281
As you walk along, you do not see a small rock on
the floor in front of you. Test your Duck, If you are
Lucky, turn to 392. If you are Unlucky, turn to 320.
282-283

282

The Hill Giant's possessions amount to 1 Gald Piece

and a copper bracelet. It occurs to you that the
Giant's cave cannot be too far away if he claimed to
own the valley. Will you try on the copper bracelet
(turn to 182), search for the Giant's cave after
placing the gold and bracelet in your backpack (turn
to 241), or ride west along the valley after placing the
gold and bracelet in your backpack (turn to 67)?

You hear a grinding sound, and slowly the giant
chair starts to swing back through an opening sec-
tion of the wall. The bars holding you into the chair
slide back and you are able to stand up in the large
room in which you find yourself. The chair slides
back inte the tunnel and now the only possible way
out for you is through a door in the opposite wall.
There is a sign on the door which reads “Lock the
door before opening.’ You are puzzied by the sign,
which appears to make no sense. You try the handle
and find that the door is not locked. However, if you
have a key and wish to do as the sign seys, turn to
189. If you do not have a key or do not wish to use it.
turn to 334.

An hour later you decide that you are travelling too
far north and must head east if you are ever to find
the Lost Lake. At a suitable point, you turn cast
away from the river and nde up into the hills. Some
ime later you catch sight of a thin plume of smoke
nsing up from the other side of the nearest hill to
your left. lf you wish to go and see what is causing
the smoke, turn to 33. If you would rather ride on,
turn to 261.

285
Alas, the stone does not hold any remedial
Properties. Turn to 357.

286-288

2%
Tou cross an open field and see a round stone
putpost in front of vou. Two Dwarfs suddenly
emerge from the building, each holding a crossbow,
They order you to turn back or face the conse-
quences. If you decide to turn around and ride
towards Stonebridge, turn to 21. If you would rather
aght the Dwarfs, turn to 71-

287
You find a leather pouch hanging around the

Sonekeeper’s neck. Its contents are three bone
mngs, each one highly polished. One has the
symbo! of a full moon carved into its surface, an-
other bears the emblem of a dagger, and the third
has & skull etched into it. Will you:

Try on the Moon Ring? Turn to 10
Try on the Dagger Ring? Turn to 94
Try on the Skull Ring? Turn to 265

it yoru leave the rings and ride east out of the Valley
of Bones, turn to 369.

288
Sor and Symm soon recover after the slaying of the
riclicat, and tell you how terrifying it was to watch
the battle, unable to move a muscle. ‘I’m really
pleased you won, actually," says Borri. ‘1 didn’t
tancy the idea of being used as a scratching-post for
that big cat!" Symm for once laughs at Borri’s re-
marks, although it is probably duc more to his own
cehef than Sorri’s humvuur. “Well, we went to the
ee

289-290

trouble of opening that trapdoor, so we might as
well have a look inside the Hellcat’s lair,” continues

Borri. ‘What do you think?’ If you wish to look
inside the lair, turn to 2g0. If you would rather walk
down the narrow tunnel opposite, turn te 177-

289
Around the neck of the Centaur hangs a bronze

talisman in the shape of a Horned Demon. If you
wish to wear the talisman yourself, turn to 75. If you
would rather ride off without the talisman, turn to

304.

290
Symm is as skilled as you are with his sword, and
defeats his three Skeletons without too much
difficulty. You start to scrape the moss from the
gravestones to read the inscriptions, and the third
gtavestone yields what you are looking for -
Tamal’s epitaph. In ancient script it reads:

Although I lie here, Lam not yet done,
The dark power continues, my soul is my son.
Tamal. Died in this world aged 108 years.

You memorize the epitaph, while Symm looks at the
other open graves, Suddenly he calls out, saying
that he can see the end of a silver rod protruding
from the soil. You walk over to the grave to see for
yourself, If you wish to pull the rod outof the grave,
turn to 389. If you would rather leave the grave
yard immediately and nde north-east towards
Stonebridge, turn to 234-

291-293

291
‘Dutsiders pay for their intrusion with their lives,’
misses Ungoth. You throw back your robes and
craw your sword, now that your true identity is
known. Turn to 223.

292

Tou nde over the top of the hill again and down the
other side. At the bottom you can see a small wood
at the end of the valley to the north. Lf you wish to
mde towards the wood, turn to 203. If you would
rather nde up the next hill, turn to 280.

293
A sudden gust of wind blows the balloon away from
the gap in the trees where Borris trying to land, The
basket is dragged through the tree-tops, becomes

entangled and is brought to sudden halt, hanging

precariously from the branches some thirty metres
off the ground. You climb out of the basket and
timb slowly down the tree; suddenly a branch gives
way underfoot. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn
to 225. If you are Unlucky, turn to 4.

294-295

204
The balloon climbs up into the sky, beyond the

range of the arrows. “That was a close call,” mutters
Bormi. “But at least we are safe up here. Let's hope
this wind keeps up to push us north-west.’ Feeling
weary, you sit down in the basket and decide to
snooze for a while. But Borri, back in his beloved
balloon, is in a talkative mood and tries to keep you
awake, Tm amazed at the price of things these
days,” he says. ‘Do you know how much a good
war-hammer costs, even in a city of thieves like Port
Blacksand?’ If you wish to continue the conver
sation, turn to 198. Lf you would rather tell him to
keep quiet so that you can sleep, turn to 49.

You prise the crate open with your sword and find
two suits of armour inside, but no helmets. Will
you:

Try on the suit of plate-armour? Turn to 38¢
Try on the chainmail suit? Turn to 328
Leave the armour and return to

your horse? Turn to 235

296-298

296
‘The creature lands on top of you and immediately

Marts to feed. However, it is not your flesh that it
feds on, bul the metal of yourarmour. Lose 15x11.

‘point. Asif being enveloped by a giant amocba, you
‘ry to throw off the [ron-Eater.

IRON-EATER SKILL 4

for each Attack Round that you lose, you must
deduct 1 SKILL point. As soon as you win an Attack

STAMINA 5

ound, you will have thrown the Iron-Eater off on

& the floor. Then you will be able to walk on along
the tunnel (turn to 152).

297
After thirty metres, the tunnel opens out into
another chamber. The floor is littered with skulls,
each one looking as if it had been smashed by a
blunt instrument. At one end of the chamber there

a heavy iron door, which is firmly bolted shut. As

you approach, you hear a dull thumping on the
door. At the other end of the chamber, you see an
archway which has a surround sculpted with De-
mons and Serpents. If you wish to unbolt the door,
turn to 125. Lf you would rather walk through the
archway and into the tunnel beyond it, turn to
2h.

298
Youare thrown from the saddle and land heavily on
the ground. Test your Luck, Lf you are Lucky, turn to
307. if you are Unlucky, turn to 278.

**.,VAeees ww . .
299-300

299

Sy touching the clay doll, you trigger a magical
reaction. The doll starts to grow and soon towers
above you, the clay appearing soft and malleable as
ough just dug out of the ground. [he hulking
monster steps awkwardly towards you, its chab-like
Gsts raised to attack. The Clay Golem stands be-
tween you and your horse, and you have no option
Dut to fight it.

CLAY GOLEM SKILL 8 STAMINA y

Tour sword is a poor weapon with which to fight a
lay Golem. After each Attack Round, roll one die.
you roll 1 at any time, turn to 393. If you roll 2-6,
continue the combat. If you win, turn to 362.

300
-he woman's laughter drifts away on the wind and
2) is calm once again. You examine the rod, which is
bout half a metre in length, and see that there is a
Tew thread at one end and a solid ball at the other
end with the number 13 stamped into it. You dis-
sover that the ball unscrews to reveal a piece of
301-302

393-395
paper rolled up tightly inside the rod. The paper

bears the message: ‘To know my use, add my halves
together.’ If you.have the other half of the rod and
can come up with a total, turn to that numbered
reference, If you do not know the total, you have no

option but to take the half-red with you and nde
north-east towards Stonebridge. Turn to 234.

393
‘How foolish you are to think that you could trick

me,’ hisses Ungoth. ‘Outsiders pay for their in-
trusion with their tives.” You throw back your robes
and draw your sword, now that your true identity is
known. Turn to 223.

301
While you sink into unconscousness, Symm re
members the stones that you found. He knows that
certain stones in Allansia can draw the cold from =
body and have been used before when others have
fallen to the touch of an Ice Ghost. He examines
them and finds one that looks possible. He places &
on your forehead, sits back and waits. Tes! your
Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 12. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 285.

394

For the next hour, your return journey through the
hills remains uneventful, until you suddenly hear a
aris cry for help coming from the direction of a
wooded knoll not far to the south. Ifyou wish to ride
to the knoll, turn to 127. If you would rather keep
2 riding west, turn to
After riding around the dearing, you notice with ang 382.
relief that at last the trees are beginning to thin, an 305
soon you are out of the wood. Turn to 194. As you try to flick the tarantula off your wrist, it
sinks its fangs deep into your flesh to inject its
Geadly poison. Lose 4 STAMINA points, Symm im-
mediately rushes to your aid, knowing exactly how
to treat a snake bite. He makes a small incision with
his knife to draw the poison out, and although you
feel il], your life has been saved. Borri offers to tip up
the cart while he waits for you to recover. If you
want him to tip up the cart, turn to 366. Ifyou would
rather walk on leaving the cart behind, turn to 40.

306-307

You scrape the moss away and read the words of 2
rhyme:

To go beyond

A granite door,

Press the numbers

One eight four.
You memorize the rhyme, remount your horse and
ride on, Turn to 324.

Your eves widen and a crazed expression comes
over your face. You scream wildly, and then begin
to foam at the mouth. Clutching your sword, you
turn on Symm and Born, who are likewise affected
by the mental attack. Now totally insane, you are
each filled with bloodlust, and stand on the ledge
hacking one another to pieces. Borri falls first, then
Symm. You ignore the blood which runs down your
leg from two deep gashes in your side, and jump
into the pit to attack the Gargantis. But one swipe of
its clawed hand quickly ends your attempt, and
your life,

308-310

The unseen man speaks to you in a friendly voice,
saying, ‘If you are Lawful, as you say you are, then
dismount from your horse, stick your sword in the
ground, and come and join me for some roasted
guck” If you trust this man and agree to do as he
suggests, turn to 103. If you would rather kick your
horse into a gallop, turn to 354.

399
You look into the darkened room from where the
Lava Demons flew out, but are unable ty see any-

tung. If you wish to walk into the room, turn to 51.

_ © you would rather walk through the archway and

mio the tunnel beyond, turn to 264.

310
& is pitch-dark inside the cave, and to safeguard
yourself from falling down an unseen pit, you tap

the ground in front of you with your sword. Sud-

Genly, your sword hits something solid directly in
your path, which sounds as if it is a metal object.

_ You reach out and feel the object and deduce that it

a large metal box bolted to the ground. It has a
hinged lid. If you wish to try lifting the lid, turn to
45. if you would rather walk back to your horse,
turn to 235.
314 312-314

312

The rat sinks its sharp teeth into your leg. Lose 1
STAMINA point. But you are less worried about the
wound than you are about the possibility that the rat
“might be the carrier of a fatal disease. You crush the
‘at underfoot, angry that such a small creature
“might be the downfall of Allansia. Test your Luck. Lf

you are Lucky, turn to 348. If you are Unlucky, turn
“t 161.

321
Holding the rod in your hand, you imagine the
rabbit frozen in time. Somewhere hundreds of miles
away, the rabbit springs once again into action and
continues its run through the grass, unaware that #
had ever stopped. You point the rod at the Gargan-
tis, and hold your breath as a giant dawed hand
reaches down to grab you. Much to your relief, the
hand suddenly halts, centimetres from your face.
The Gargantis is paralysed, and Borri and Symum let
out a cheer. You let the nimble Symm shin up the
frozen body of the beast, a knife gripped between
his teeth. Sitting astride the Gargantis’s shoulders,
Symm cuts slowly through the white horn. Clatch-
ing it in his left hand, he brandishes it in the air m
triumph. He then jumps down and hands you the
fabled horn, a smile across his face. You marvel at
the beauty of the horn before tucking it into your
belt. ‘Let's gol’ you say, and lead your two friends
back down the tunnel Passing between the
Skeleton statues does not produce a further appear-
ance of the Ice Ghosts, and you hurry on. Test your
Luck. Hf you are Lucky, turn to 54. If you are Un
lucky, turn to 238,

arrior and the clash of steel coming from over the
of the hill. If you wish to investigate, turn to 7.
# you would rather walk by, turn to 162.

314

you are hit by the dagger, the throw was
mot particularly accurate. You suffer only a flesh
to your shoulder. Lose 2 STAMINA points.

t just as quickty as the cloak rose, it drops back to
‘Se ground and stays there motionless. If you have
sot done so already, you may try on either the Moon
Ring (turn to 10) or the Skull Ring (turn fi) 265).

Otherwise you may ride east out of the cursed
falley of Bones (turn to 369).

315-316

FAS

Jou pass between two statues of Skeleton Warriors
and immediately feel a gust of cold wind blow down
Se tunnel into your faces. The wind blows harder
mec begins to howl. ‘We seem to be in the right
piace,” says Borri in a more serious tone than usual.
Suddenly you see something glowing white at the
end of the tunnel. It grows in size and flies towards
you at speed. When it is near enough, you see that it
= a being with an agonized look on its face, its
Stttuse body trailing behind it. Its mouth opens and
its out 2 soul-chilling scream. ‘It’s an Ice Ghost,’

outs Symum above the wailing scream. ‘Don’t let it
such you as it flies by. And look out, here come two
More! You keep your eye on the Ice Ghosts as they
spiral towards you. Roll two dice three times. If any
@t the totals are greater than your SKILL score, turn
™® 379. If the totals are all the same as or less than
POUT SKILL, turn to 72.

316

Within an hour you reach a bridge which crosses a
Sream and leads you into Stonebridge. Two Dwarf
@eords standing on the bridge challenge vou, and
pou reply that you are a friend of Yaztromo and

ted to speak to Borri. The Dwarfs’ mood suddenly
Smanges and they become very friendly and talka-
Bre; they lead you through the village to some
@adics where Borri lives. You knock on the door
and are greeted by a smiling Dwarf with chubby red
shecks and a long beard. ‘Hello!’ he says cheerfully.
My name is Bor and you must be Yaztromo’s

317 318-320

friends. Come in and help yourselves to some
vegetable stew I've just prepared. ists
your horses.” You accept Borm’s kind hospitalt
and eat until you feel you cannol move. ‘Add
STAMINA points. Barmi rejoins you to hear ab
your quest, as all Dwarfs love to hear tales of adve
ture, At last when he seems content that he kn
everything there is to know, he says, “Well, I 319
pose it’s time to rest. Make yourselves some beds You spend some minutes cutting your way through
the hay, and in the morning I'll show you som® @ the bushes and brambles, but fail to find a lair,
thing special~ my invention In the morning, after@§ Perhaps the Demon had no resting-place. You have
quick breakfast, you stroll outside to see Born aml)». ‘decided to give up and return to your horse,
his new invention. Turn to 353. . something catches your eye ina pile of leaves,
You brush away the leaves with your sword and

318
Although slow and clumsy, the Zombie is a strong
Sehter, and slashes at you with its clawed hands.

OMBIE SKILL 6 STAMINA 6
you win, turn to 74.

= 347 Ove! the skeletal remains of a human wearing
Within an hour you become feverish and then chainmail armour, no doubt a victim of the Wood
your horror hair starts to sprout from your UupP& | Demon. You see that the bony fingers of its right

body, head and arms. Your face distorts ar
changes dramatically until it is completely lupine!
appearance, You are condemned to a double is
hunting, when the full moon rises, the very p
who were once your friends.

Sand are clutching a silver rod which is about half a
netre in length. A fine helmet lies next to the skull,
nd a perished leather backpack is close by. Will

Examine the silver rod? Turn to 360

Try on the helmet? Tum to 111
Open the backpack? Turn to 175
Leave the body and return to
your horse? Turn to 221
320
You kick the rock and unknowingly spring a trap.

- rock was keeping a stick pressed down in a
hole in the floor which, when released, opens a
321-323 324-325
trapdoor. You step into thin air and fall down 2 p&
five metres deep. Roll one dic and deduct the nuz
ber from your sTaMINA score. If you are still alive
Borri and Symm are able to rescue you with the help
of Borri’s rope. “You didn’t see the Gargentis dows
there, did you?’ Borri asks teasingly. Without givi ® allow your horse to drink, turn to 376. If you
him the satisfaction of a reply, you walk off, igh d rather force it to cross the stream so that you
lipped. Turn to 79. “2n continue your quest, turn to 391.

At the bottom of the hill you see a narrow stream
venning north to south across your path. When you
‘@nve at the edge, your horse stops and puts its
ead down to drink. If you wish to release the reins

325
‘tou walk two kilometres further west, but fail to
Gnd any horses. There seems to be little point in
king any further, as it will take you an hour ta
to Borri. You walk back, hardly speaking to

321
You hear an ominous rumbling sound above you
and see fragments of rock splinter off the walls 2
fall to the ground. Suddenly, a huge crack opens
in the wall by the lever, and then the whole
caves in on top of you. Your quest is ab other, frustrated by your continued bad fuck.
ended, and Ravaak can now bring on the Dark Ag at last you see the balloon, there is no sign of
of Allansia without any further obstruction. Sor. You draw your swords and approach
sutiously, when suddenly Borri pops up out of the
asket and points a crossbow at you. You laugh and
@!! him to stop joking, but do not finish your
Sentence. A crossbow bolt pierces your neck, killing
yeu instantly, and a fight to the death then breaks
gut between Symm and Borri, although you will
sever know who won. Nor will you know that Borri
went insane after eating mad-mad berries found
¥ on the Plain of Bronze.

322
The chicken is fresh and only recently roasted. You
devour it quickly and lick your lips in satisfaction.
Add 2 stamina points. Leaving the Orcs behind.
you ride off east. Turn to 216.

323
The Ice Ghosts clase in, but you manage to €
them as they fly by. Symm and Borri also dodg
them successfully, You watch the Ghosts disappe:
down the tunnel, before deciding to abandon #
search for a secret passage, and walking bolda
between the statues ahead. Turn to 56.

326

326
Although you did not know'it, the jewel in your ring
= known as the Seeing Eye. Its wearer will see
Srough all illusions, even if cast by the most power-
ml magic. Slowly the features of Yaztromo dis-
appear to reveal the hideous figure of Razaak in his
fue form. His body is grotesque, with a large
Gomed insect-like back which curves up to his ever-
mzed head. One arm trails on the floor, while the
Sther is withered and stunted. One eye bulges from
@ socket and a twisted smile warps the left of his
eetormed face. Red veins pulsate on his bald skull,
and you have never felt so repulsed in all your life. ‘1
mew you were an outsider,” he sneers. ‘I can feel
the presence of my sword hidden in your robes. But
pou are out of your depth, worm.’ Suddenly he
points his stunted arm at you and a fireball shoots
sot from his scrawny fingertip straight at you. If you
Rave inhaled the smoke from inside a smashed
pobe, turn to 352- If you have not inhaled the magic
smoke, turn to 259.

“a
us

ia

‘

Does

Vike Sheer A)

pair» FR ore
*

.\ __[_ -.- °° © ———-

ae 331-332

arther incident and as it gets dark, you wonder

ere to make camp. In the distance, you see the
of what looks like a fire, but it is now too dark
p see whoever might be sitting by it. If you wish to
ade over to the fire, turn to 183. If you would rather
=2mp down for the night between some nearby
oulders, turn to 399.

327

You turn your horses north and wave to the Hi
Men, who shake their fists at you in frustratior
When out of range of their bows, you tum west
ayain. Turn to 148.

The armour fits you well and does not restrict }
agility. Add 1 Sx11t point. You have no use for th
plate-armour, so you walk back to your horse. Tur

331
to 235 = Hobgoblin just manages to grab hold of your
>-

ft leg and is hauled up into the sky with you. Borri
d Symm lean over the basket shouting en-
uragement as you try to shake off the Hobgoblin.
oll two dice. If the total is the same as or less than

SKILt., tum to 154. If the total is greater than
Sour SKILL, turn to 267-

329

You lift the trapdoor and stand back, your sword 2
the ready, You hear a high-pitched growl and ther
suddenly, a large beast leaps up through the trap
door into the chamber. It has flame-red fur and &
cat-like in appearance, with long sharp claws end
teeth. The Hellcat also has scarlet eves which it uses
to instil fear into its prey. Roll one die. If you rol
i—4, turn to 120. If you roll 5 or 6, turn to 355.

332
est your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 384. If you
e Unlucky, turn to 85.

33°
The large rock flies towards you, but lands &
metres short. You hear the Mill Giant oe i

anger, but you ride on up the hill, and soon leay
the Giant behind. The rest of the s day passes wit!

333

333
You scrape the moss from the gravestone and re

the epitaph of a woman who died aged 69. On the
third tombstone, you find what you are looking for
lamal's epitaph. In ancient script it reads:

Although I he here, lam not yet done,
The dark power continues, my soul is my son.
Tamal. Died in this world aged 108 years

You memorize the epitaph, while Svmm hurriedly
scrapes the moss from the other gravestones, halt
expecting to see a ghost at any moment. But the
graveyard yields no further secrets, and you ndw
north-east towards Stonebridge. ‘Turn to 234.

334-335

334

Tou decide to throw caution to the winds and open
Se door and walk through it. You find yourself ina
mom exactly the same as the one you have just left.
The only difference is that there is no sign on the
beck of the door. You walk up to the door, try the
tandile and find that itis unlocked. Again, you walk
Srough the door — only to find yourself in another
Sentical room. Having failed to use a timelock key,
you are now trapped in a time-warp from which
Sere is no escape. You are doomed to the eternal
tepetition of walking through the door.

335
After half an hour of rummaging through the

undergrowth, you find the deadly-nightshade
plant, and are hardly able to believe your good
fortune. You quickly chew a sprig to extract the
belladonna, and are immediately sick because of the
poison in the plant. Lose 2 sTAMINA points.
However, to your relief, you are cured of the
aisease. Turn to 36.
336

You read out the words on the parchment, but the
old man soon becomes irritated by your poor pre
nunciation. ‘Read out the words letter by letter,’ he
says sharply. You do as instructed, but when you
finish, the old man remains silent. Finally he grunts
in satisfaction and savs, ‘Well, you have found
yourselves quite a useful item. The lenguage &
Hamakeian, The Hamakei, in case you are i
terested, are the last remnants of a more sorcerout
age. A few of them still live in desert wastelands.
They are very strange creatures with withered
bodies and vulture-like heads, and are kept alive
well beyond their normal lifespan by arcane spelis.
They see themselves as scholars and are rarely
drawn into conflict, so they concern themselves
with protective magic. And what you have here is¢
mapic screen against conjured animals or imsects
Quite useful, really. To activate the spell, just ser
“Hamakei” and call out the number on the bottom
of the parchment. Well, | must be going now, and
Ill say goodbye and wish you luck.’ You watch
old man for a few minutes as he sets off again
walking nimbly. Then you turn and follow Symm
who, as ever, is eager to press on. Turn to 313.

337-335

337
As your horse steps unwittingly on one of the fungi,

you hear a dull popping sound. Suddenly, the air
is filled with fungal spores, poisonous only to
humans. You immediately begin to retch and
choke. Roll one die and deduct the number from
your STAMINA score. lf you are still alive, you hold
your breath and make your horse gallop across the
clearing. Soon the trees start to thin and at last you
are out of the wood. Tum tp 194.

338
When you reach the spot where the slain Doragar
fell, you are surprised to see that the bodies have
vanished. A trail of blood leads to a solid rock wall,
where you find the tell-tale crack of a doorway. You
push the section of wall, but it does not move. Even
Symm with all his skills cannot find a way to open
the section of wall. You press your ear to the wall,
but hear nothing. [f you wish to carry on with your
efforts to open the wall, turn to 78. If you would
rather walk to the junction and try the other

passage, turn to 222.
339

339
You nervously ride over the brow of the hill that

leads down to the lake. There is a deathly silence in
the valley and hardly a ripple breaks the surface of
the dark, mist-covered water which stretches inta
the distance. You quickly scan the lake, but see no
movement on it. You wait patiently for almost an
hour and then you catch sight of an object drifting
slowly towards the western shore, You strain your
eyes and see that it is undoubtedly a raft anda robed
igure is sitting on it. You spur your horse along the
shore to the point where the raft is heading. As the
ralt drifts closer to the shore, you urge your horse
into the cold lake and set eyes on the cursed
skeleton of Kull. Still gripping Razaak’s sword as it
has done for a hundred years, the skeleton of Kull
suis motonless on the raft as you approach. You
overcome your anxiety and reach out and take the
sword from Kull. You hear a whispered sigh of joy
and watch the skeleton crumble into dust and dis-
appear between the logs of the raft into the lake.
After placing the dreaded sword in your belt, you
nde off west towards Yaztromo’s tower, unable to
nd yourself of haunting thoughts of the terrible fate
that may await you as keeper of Razaak‘s sword.
Turn to 265

340-341

340
You somehow manage to survive the mental attack.
blotting out the fear in your mind. You scream at the
top of your voice to aid your concentration, and step
forward to attack the Hellcat.

HELLCAT
If you win, turn te 32,

SKILL & STAMINA 8

It 1s riot tong: belnne tiphel) “én you “find
yourselves relaxing in comfortable chairs listening
to long tales of adventure told by Yaztromo. After
eating a huge meal, you go to bed early, since you
feel you are going to need all the sleep you can get
In the morning you feel quite refreshed (add 2
STAMINA points) and while you pack your belong-
ings, Yaztrome refills your glass phial with his
Healing Potion, enough for five tots. As vou walk
down the spiral staircase of the tower, Yaztromo
says, ‘l fear the worst for poor ald Budron. Some-
thing terrible must have happened to him. He is
usually so reliable. I hope you manage to find the
haunted graveyard without him. After that, ride to
the Dwarf village of Stonebridge and ask for Borri

He will be able to help you save a great deal of time”
Outside, you mount your horses and ride off west
along the edge of Darkwood Forest. The ride x
uneventful for half an hour, but then vou see 3
leather sack hanging by 2 piece of rope froma tree. #
you wish to stop and cut down the sack, turn to 207

If you would rather ride on, turn to 37.

342
The nuts are edible and ease your hunger a little.
Add 1sTAMINa point. When you have finished the
nuts, you make your way outof the tunnels. Turn to

279.

343

The little man stops throwing the bones and asks
you why you are trespassing on his ground. You
reply that you are on an important quest and that
you must find the Lost Lake. ‘T’m just a simple man,
known as the Bonekeeper,’ the little man says in a
sad voice, ‘and I do not know of any lost lake. T sort
through these bones and carve some of them inio
magical rings. | would very much like a new knife
for my work, and would gladly give you one of my
rings in ex e.’ If you possess a knife which you
would like to exchange for a ring, turn to 208. If you
decide to attack the Bonekeeper after all, turn to 134.
Otherwise, you bid him farewell and ride out of the
Valley of Bones (turn to 369).
344-346

344
Borri and Symm help you up and then the three of
you walk through the narrow tunnel opposite. lum

to 477.

345
By morning all is quiet. You mount your horses and

ride off in search of the graveyard. lum to 37.

346

The strong poison acts quickly, but fortunately your
constitution can cope with the small amount. Your
limbs feel stiff, but do not become paralysed. Lose 4
STAMINA points. You urge your horse on, cutting
your sword through the air to ward off the hovering
flies which are waiting for their prey to fall. But you
manage to escape from them and as soon as you fee!
safe, you swallow a tot of Yaztromo’s Healing
Potion to counter the effect of the poison. You
immediately feel better, but you do not regain any
STAMINA points. Relieved to be past the marsh,
you continue your trek into the hills, following the
river. Turn to 185.

347-348

347

5orni has trouble squeezing his fat stomach through
the crack in the wall, and Symum teases him about it.
You have to push and haul yourselves along some
twenty metres before the crack opens out into a
large empty chamber. Two black candles give off a
dim light and you notice that itis extremely cold. On
the opposite wall, 2 narrow tunnel leads out of the
chamber, and on the floor you see a trapdoor which
is bolted down. You press your ear to the trapdoor
and hear some snufiling sounds coming from
underneath. If you wish to walk down the narrow
tunnel, turn to 177. lt you wish to unbolt the trap-
door, turn to 329.

348
The rat was not diseased and you are able to con-

tinue your quest without a painful and untimely
death. You walk over to the chest and look inside.
Turn to 214

349-359

9
The clawed hand catches you on the shoulder and

neck, inflicting a terrible gash. Lose 2 STAMINA
points. Roll two dice. If the total is the same as or
less than yourskiLt, turn io 88. If the totalis preater
than your SktLL, turn ty 236.

350
By the time you are halfway down the valley, your
horse is panting heavily and galloping very slowly
Lose 1 LUCK point. Not wishing to run your horse
into the ground, you turn to face the screaming
Goblins, Fight them one at a time as they close in.

SKILL STAMINA
Firat GOBLIN 3 5
Second GOBLIN 5 r
Third GOBLIN 6 5
Fourth GOBLIN 6 6

lf you win, tum to 65.

3513-352

357

You detect surprise on Razaak‘s face as the ball of
fire veers away from your body. He releases another
hreball, but it too veers away. Realizing that you
have protection from fire, he starts to mumble
words which you do not comprehend. Immediate-
ly, his fingertips are crawling with giant, bloated
insects which swarm towards you as if Razaak were
holding the end of a massive pulsating cone. If vou
possess a Hamakeian parchment, you should use it
now by calling on the Hamakei and turning to the
number on the parchment. If you do nat possess a
parchment, turn to 242.

352
You are now wearing a Crystal of Sanity. This
talisman will protect you from any assaults on your
sanity. Taking heed of the miner's warning, you
turn your horse south-east to avoid the Orcs. Turn
to 237.
353

353

Outside in the yard, you see the strangest sight of
your life. A huge balloon, as tall as Yaztromo’s
tower, is being filled by Borri with hot air froma fire,
A group of Dwarts is holding on to the ropes to keep
the balloon from floating away into the sky. ‘This is
my invention,’ shouts Borri excitedly over the crack-
ling of the fire. Tt’s called a hot-air balloon. It can
carty people great distances through the skies in a
basket hanging from the balloon. You can soar
through the air across mountains and lakes, driven
on by air currents and the wind. Now, I believe we
must try to find the Gargantis beast. Su, if you
would like to cdimb aboard, we'll take to the skies.
And if you have any idea which way we should go,
you should tell me now. The wind is blowing in a
south-easterly direction, so | hope you don't want to
go west?

aww

You are full of wonder at this amazing balloon and
you climb quickly into the basket, Borri gives the
order for the Dwarfs to release the holding ropes,
and the balloon rises smoothly and swiftly up-
wards. At first you feel nervous, but soon the
beautiful view and the tranquillity make you relax,
and you begin to enjoy the silent jaumney- You look
down at the tiny tree-tops of Darkwood Forest and
think about the dangers that he hidden beneath
them. “Well? asks Bormi. ‘Where do you want to go?"
Will you reply-
354-356

I'he Forest of Spiders? Turn to 34

The Western Flatlands? Turn to 135

The Plain of Bronze? Turn to 210
354

You hear the twang of a bowstring being released as
your horse races off into the night. Test your Luck It
you are Lucky, turn to 109. If you are Unlucky, tum
to 263.

355
Although your two friends become transfixed by
fear, you somehow manage to shut out the images
gathering in your mind. You scream at the top of
your voice to aid your concentration, and step
forward to attack the Hellcat.
HELLCAT

if you win, turn to 288.

SKILL 8 STAMINA S

356
You look down at the lifeless bodies of the

Chameleonites and recall a legend you were once
told. It is said that the blood of these rare creatures
gives a human being the power of perfect
camouflage just once in his or her life. But it is also
said that sometimes there are terrible side-effects. If
you wish to dab sume Chameleonite blood on to
your body, turn to 224. lf you would rather spur
your horse on further east, turn to 180-

357-359

357

Your temperature continues to fall, and death
y follows due to hypothermia. Your body
to vaporize and rises off the ground. You see
two objects in front of you, glowing fiery red, and
you fly towards them. The heat given off by the
Sdjects burns you, and you how! in pain, in the
seme way as any other Ice Ghost in the presence of
ving beings.

358

The girl ies in a contorted heap close to her Griffin.
There is no sign of life, and you wonder why she
@ttacked you. Perhaps the Griffin was hungry and
m@tended to eat horse flesh, The girl was armed with
# sword and a shield. lf you do not have a sword,
you may take the girl’s. Add 2 sxitx points. The
Stueld is circular and has strange writing etched
zround the circumference. If you wish to take the
shield, turn to 131. If you would rather ride off
without it, turn to 29.

359
You look around, but find nowhere to hide. There is
no alternative but to draw your sword and advance,
Three creatures soon come into view and you see
that they have the bodies of humans, but the heads
360-362

of rats. They are covered in short fur and have long
rat-like tails; they have already picked up your scent
and are ready to fight. The front Rat Man whirls
sling around its head and releases a stone down the
tunnel. Roll one die. If you roll 1-3, turn to 133. &
you roll 4—6, turn to 69,

360

Lhe rod is hollow at one end and has a screw thread
inside it. You deduce that there is another part to the
rod which is either lost or destroyed. You notice the
number 37 etched into the solid end of the rod, bat
do not understand its significance. You put the roé
into your backpack before deciding what to do next
if you have not done so already, you may either try
on the helmet (turn to 121) or open the backpack
(turn to 175). Lf you would rather return to your
horse, turn to 221.

361
Ten minutes pass and nothing terrible happens io
you, You realize that you are immune to the side
effects of the Chameleonite’s blood. Add 1 LUcE
point. In high spirits you turn your horse east. Tum
te 180.

362-364

362

The Golem rocks on its feet for a moment and then
cashes to the ground like a falling tree. Its head
splits open and inside you see a gold ring set with a
Serge jewel plugged into the clay. If you wish to put
the ring on your finger, turn to 192. If you would
rather leave it where it is and ride on towards the
lake, turn to 339-

363
You ride steadily north-east towards Stonebridge,
Dut see no sign of a graveyard. Turn to 142,

304

‘Tf what you say is true, | am sure my master will
want to hear of Lord Azzur's allegiance, But before |
allow you entrance to my master, | must ensure that
you are not a spy from the outside world. I will ask
you some questions,’ continues Ungoth. ‘Should
you answer them correctly, then I will be convinced
you are a true servant of Razaak. You say you were
im Port Blacksand, that venerable city of thieves, to
buy arms. Now tell me, how many Gold Pieces
would you pay for a war-hammer?”’ If you know the
answer, turn to the number that it would cost. If you
do not know the answer, turn to 291.
365-366

365

4s you nde slowly through the wood, you see the
=sves of 2 bush move, and cannot convince your
sell that if was ruffled by the wind. You draw your
sword and turn your horse towards the bush. A
mdcous creature suddenly leaps out and stares at
sou through sunken eyes as dark as the earth itself.
the creature is humanoid in shape but with dark,
stusty skin like bark, covered in moss and fungus,
and crawling with bloated insects. It has a lifeless
expression on its crumpled face. Suddenly the
Sood Demon's arms uncurl and extend like long

es and try tv pull you from your horse. Roll two
ice. If the total is the same as or less than your
| S*!LL Score, turn to 232. If the total is greater than
pour SKILL score, turn to 397.

. 366

) -nderneath all the bones you find another wooden

sox, much bigger than the one hidden inside the
Trolls clothing. If you wish to open the large box,

) term to 10g. Lf vou would rather walk on, leaving the

“boxes behind, tum to 40.

37-369

367

The noise of the shattering glass echoes loudly in
the cave when the globe hits the wall and fra
ments. The smoke quickly fills the cave, bul you de
not have any difficulty in breathing. In fact, the
smoke is magical and will now make you immune
any attack by fire. Add 1 LucK point. You may now
either open the chest, if you have not done ©
already (turn to 80), or leave the cave (turn to 386).

368
if you cannot recollect what creature is still trapped
by the rod, then you will be unable to activate
against the Gargantis. Once again, you must rely
your sword. Turn to 147.

369
Leaving the valley behind, you urge your horse
the next hill until you reach a pile of dark
boulders. The largest boulder appears to have
words chiselled into it, most of which are hidden
moss. If you wish to dismount and examine
words, turn to 306. If you would rather ride on,

to 324.

379-372

37°
Borri and Symm help you up, and you discover that
you have found a bronze face-mask. If you wish to
wear the mask, turn to 145. If you would rather
leave it behind and walk through the narrow tunnel

opposite, turn to 177.

By pulling on ropes and adjusting the ballast, Bowri
skilfully lands the balloon between a gap in the
trees. You climb out of the basket and take the
initiative, as Born suddenly seems downcast at the
prospect of leaving his beloved invention. You tell
the other two to follow you, although in truth you
have no idea which way to head. Turn to15.

372
As you reach forward to close the lid, one of the
Rad-Hulks tries to grab your arm. If vour SKILL
scoreis 9 orless, tur to105, If your $x1t1. score is 10
or higher, turn to 20.

367-369 370-372

70
Borri and Symrm help you up, and you discover that
you have found a bronze face-mask. if you wish to
wear the mask, turn to 145. If you would rather
leave it behind and walk through the narrow tunnel!
Opposite, turn to 177.

37%

By pulling on ropes and adjusting the ballast, Borri
skilfully lands the balloon between a gap in the
trees. You climb out of the basket and take the
initiative, as Borri suddenly seems downcast at the
prospect of leaving his beloved invention. You tell
the other two to follow vou, although in truth you
have no idea which way to head. Turn to 15,

367

The noise of the shattering glass echoes loudly &
the cave when the globe hits the wall and frag
ments. The smoke quickly fills the cave, but you de
not have any difficulty in breathing. In fact, the
smoke is magical and will now make you Immune &
any attack by fire. Add 1 Luck point. You may now
either open the chest, if you have not done 39
already (turn to 80), or leave the cave (turn to 386).

368
If you cannot recollect what creature is still tra

by the rod, then you will be unable to activate
against the Gargantis. Once again, you must rely
your sword. Turn to 147.

369
Leaving the valley behind, you urge your horse
the next hill until RID IOR bebe ts
boulders. The la appears to have
words chiselled otk most of which are hidden
moss. If you wish to dismount and examune
words, turn to 306. If you would rather ride on,
to 324.

372
As you reach forward to close the lid, one of the
Rad-Hulks tries to grab your arm. If your $Kit1.
scoreis.g orless, turn to105. lf your sKILL score is 10
or higher, turn to 20.

EEO

373-374

373
The number you rolled was the number of points to
be deducted from the Zombie's stamina. Reduce
the Zombie's sTAMINA accordingly before the
fight.

ZOMBIE

If you win, turn to 74.

Skit. & STAMINA ®S

374
The Hill Giant's aim is deadly accurate. Ihe large
rock thumps into you and knocks you off your
horse. You are dead before you hit the ground.

375-376

375
You may try any one of the following items if you
possess them. Which one will you use:

A silver mirror? Turn to 394
A silver rod? Turn to 128
A rat skull? Turn to 98

E you do not possess any of these items, you will
have to rely on your sword once again (turn to 147).

376
Tour horse drinks long and hard at the cool stream.

You decide to do likewise as you believe the water to
o¢ pure in the hills. Add 1 stamina point. When
you think your horse has rested enough, you re-
mount and cross the stream. Turn to 391.
oo —

377-378

377

You are soon deep inside the dense forest, which is
notorious for its evil inhabitants. Keeping a watch-
ful eye on all the trees around you, you walk stead-
#y on. Soon you come to the edge of a glade and
fitch sight of poor Yaztromo staked out in the
middic of a marked-rut pentacle. A loathsome
horned beast, its fat. lumpy body covered with
green, shmy skin, is walking around the pentacle in
étrenzy. You are unable to contain yourself and call
‘out to Yaztromo. He raises his head and says,
_ Never have I been so plad to see a friend in my life,
Quick, use Razaak’s sword against his servant from
Hell.” Knowing that you could not injure the vile
creature with your own sword, you draw Razaak’s
/ sword to fight it.

DEMONSPAWN SKILL 6 STAMINA 6

)i you win, turn to 278,

378

The crossbow bolt fired at Symm just misses him,
but you are not as lucky. ‘The bolt thuds painfully
into your thigh, although it does not stop you from
) Siding in to attack. Lose 2 STAMINA points. Symm
charges at one Dwarf and you take on the other.

DWARF SKILLZ STAMINA 7

= you win, turn to 250.

===
“ay

3797-381

379
The vapour-like body of the ice Ghost passes
through you, and you immediately feel chilled te
the marrow. You start to shiver uncontrollably and
turn deathly white. lf you have any polished stones,
turn to 301. If you do not have any stones, turn t

357-

380

The armour fits you well and is surprisingly light
Add 1 SKIL1 point. However, itused to belong to
evil lord who, as he lay dying from an assassin’s
knife, cursed whoever wore his armour in the
future, Lose 3 Luc poimts. You have no use for the
chainmail armour, so you walk back to your horse
Turn to 235.

381
You walk back to the fissure and lead the way down
the steps. The foul air makes you retch, but you
carry on down into the gloom Your eye®
gradually become accustomed to the dark and your
nose even gets used to’ the foul stench. When you
reach the bottom, you see that the vapour is nsing
from a large stone bowl, containing a thick red
liquid which glows as though it were molten metal
The sludge gives off no heat, just the nauseating
smell. ‘Perhaps this stuff is responsible for killing aB
the vegetation outside,’ whispers Borri. ‘Shall we
pour water over it from that rock pool?’ If you wish
to do as Borri suggests, turn to 286, If you would
rather try to find Razaak’'s crypt, turn to 262.

382-383

382
The day passes quickly and soon you find yourself
riding down a narrow valley between two rows of
hills. This is a welcome change from continually
Tiding up and down hills. However, in the wild
lands of Allansia, er is never far away. Stand-
ing ahead of you in the middle of the valley is a
huge, ugly brute some six metres tall, dressed in
grubby animal! skins. A pile of rocks lies next to the
Hill Giant, who calls out and threatens to hurl them
at you unless you give him 5 Gold Pieces to allow
you through his valley. Will you:

Give him the goid? Turn to 187

Attack him with your sword Turn to 118
Ride up the hill to bypass the Giant? Turn to 153

383
The vapour-like body of the Ice Ghost passes
through you, and you immediately begin to feel
chilled to the bone. You start to shiver uncontrol-
lably and turn deathly white. If this is the first time
you have been touched by an Ice Ghost, turn to 141.
If you have been touched by one before, turn to 47.
384-387

384
You walk past an unseen pit, hidden by twigs and
leaves. It was built by the fur-trapper who used to
live in the hut, Turn to 23.

385
Alas, you have chosen to put on an Agran death-

mask. Made by the High Priests of Agra in southern
Allansia, these terrible masks were given to unfor-
tunate sacrificial victims at harvest time. Although
the wearer appears perfectly normal, he will lie
down and plunge a dagger into his heart. The High
Priests dominated their people and led them to
believe that those sacrificed killed themselves will-
ingly. A few minutes later, you lie down on the floor
and thrust Razaak’s sword into your chest. In
seconds, your flesh tums to dust and all in Allansia
is lost.

386
You quickly untie your horse and resume your
journey. Turn to 67.

387
You are obviously umwvorthy of owning magic
items, if you do not know what they are, Since you
are unable to activate the magic rod, you must rely
once again on your sword. Turn to 147.

348-390

388

The strong poison acts quickly and you feel your
limbs begin to stiffen. Lose 6sTa MINA points and 2
SKILL points. With extreme effort you manage to
keep your horse moving and escape the grotesque
Harpoon Flies. As soon as they are left behind, you
swallow a tot of Yaztromo’s Healing Potion to coun-
ter the effect of the poison. You immediately feel
better, but you do not regain any SKILL or STAMINA
points. Feeling relieved to be over the marsh, you
continue your trek into the hills, following the river.
Turn to 185.

389

As soon as you touch the silver rod, the wind starts
to howl, throwing leaves up into the air. You hear
the sinister laugh of a woman above the noise of the
wind, and ; a lightning bolt shoots down
from the sky, followed by a roll of thunder over-
head. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 121. If
you are Unlucky, turn to 170.

399
The sarcophagus is filled with gold and jewels,
including diamonds as big as yuur fist. If you wish
to take some of the treasure, turn to 149. If you
would rather leave it untouched and get out of the

ctypt as quickly as Ponmerltns turn to 233.

394-393

391
You reach the brow of the next hill and look east-
wards into the distance. All you can see is the
never-ending range of hills stretching out into the
gloom of the dark sky. Suddenly you hear the sound
of galloping hoofs and shrill war-cries piercing the
silence. You turn to look behind you and see a group
of Goblins charging up the hill on horses, riding
bareback. One of them carries a banner with
shrunken heads swinging from it. There are four
Goblins in the raiding party, and you must quickly
decide what to do. If you wish to charge down the
hill to attack them, turn to 60. If you wish to gallop
away from them, turn to 26.

392
You step over the rock, unknowingly avoiding a
trap, and walk on. [urn to 79.

393
Uniess your blow has just killed the Golem {in
which case turn to 362), your sword will become
wedged in the wet clay. As you struggle to retrieve
it, the Golem grips your neck with its powerful
hands and throttles you to death with ease.

394-396

394

Believing that the power of the Gargantis is some-
how located in its tiny eyes, you try to reflect its own
gaze with the mirror, in the hope that it might
destroy itself, But the mirror has no effect. Lase 2
LUCK points. There is no time to use another item.
as the Gargantis is almost on top of you, so you must
rely once again on your trusty sword. Turn to 147.

395
One of the Rad-Hulks picks up a rock and hurls it at
you as you flee. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, tum
to 57. lf you are Unlucky, turn to 3.

396
Pushing and hauling yourself through the crack,
you eventually step out into a large empty chamber.
Two black candies give off a dim light and you
notice that it is extremely cold. A narrow tunnel in
the opposite wall leads out of the chamber, and on
the floor you see a trapdoor, which is bolted down.
You press your ear to the trapdoor and hear some
snuffling sounds coming from underneath. If you
want to unbolt the trapdoor, turn to 228, If you
would rather walk down the narrow tunnel, turn to

297.

397—400

397
The Wood Demon's vine-like arms wrap around
you and pull you down to the ground, As you fall,
your sword is knocked from your hand. If you
possess 2 hunting-knife, turn to 260. If you do not
have a knife, turn to 27.

398
A few minutes later, you hear the dull sound of
hammers hitting rocks and the rattle of chains. If
you wish to investigate, turn to 214. If you would
rather walk back to the junction and try the other
passage, turn to 338.

399
Sometimes things are not always as they appear. As

soon as you rest your head against a boulder, it
moves. You have disturbed a Boulder Beast, an
animated boulder inhabited by an evil Earth Spirit.
The Boulder Beast rolls over, crushing the life from
your body.

400

You reach the steps leading out of the fissure just as
the tunnels start tocavein. You runup the steps and
are greeted by Borri, Symm and Yaztromo. ‘I
thought you were . . .” you start, but collapse from
exhaustion before you can finish the sentence.
When you wake up, you find yourself in a comfort-
able bed, with your three friends sitting in chairs at
the end of the bed. ‘Well done,’ says the wizard with
@ great smile. “You did it! And as promised, you
have not turned into a skeleton. But it was cose,
mind you. T was terribly worried when you col-
lapsed by the fissure. It was with some difficulty
that I neutralized the power of Razaak’s sword and
took it from your grip. Itis now buried under tons of
rubble and rock at the bottom of the fissure. And
that should be the end of that. Come on, get up—it’s
time to start celebrating!’ And celebrate you do-

OUT OF THE PIT:
FIGHTING FANTASY MONSTERS
Steve Jecksow aed lan Lirmystons
Pdi by Marc Gascoigne

From the durkest corners. from the deepest pools and
trom dungeons thought only lo east in nightmares come
the Fighting Fantasy monsters . the downfall of many a
brave warner. Pwo hundred snd fifty of thes lnathsome
creatures from the wild and dangerous worlds of Fighting
Fantasy ate collected bere — some are old adverseries,
Many you have vet ty meet ~ each of them described
iss minute detail An indispensabir guide for Fighting
bantasy adventures!

TITAN:
THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD
Steve facksow and San Liingstone
Edited by Marr Gascongne

You met the monsters in OUT OF TILE PIT—now meet
the rest of the Pighting Purrtesy world! No adventurer
should be without this essential guide it contsine every-
thing vou need ty know. covering the turbulent histury of
the world. trom its creation and arly civilizations -
thrmygh the devastating Wear of the Wizards — tu the
present-day wildermess and ananhy where the delicate
telame between Good and Chaos could at any moment
be oeerturnecd
‘THE CRETAN CHRONICLES
Jo Muterfl, Devad Homann end Pip Parker

Set i the mythological world of Ancient Geeeae this
hook epic Brings an cing historical dimension te
Aaverur Gemetols. YOU ar Aldwss, eal to avenge
‘the dat of Theses, your lier brother, whose bay bes
Uespped in the labyaath of King Minos The combat
‘gato fs been extended Ue inctrporale dhe concepts of
hone ana shame

HELMQUEST
Det Ficting ad Perry Hiei
strate ey Be Spender

once 2 lad of peace aad prosperity, ite
sured bythe power Dames, master of
had invested in the Beght Helm ~power tn peo-

hoon evil and sceery. Bt then the Hela
tiered i) tele paeees 2 the Dark Cod an
srpant Vash New each cs es ie 3
Sad cca plas prot by tne of he wl
But YOU have change upon the lag Ret by Na
Atinon, pest of Aaa. This oy wl even the journey
made by thc eed ones they areal each pier ofthe
Hiain. bo YOU have i in your povrer to recover those
‘pce and seine the Hela, hon restoring pace tn
Bisnis? Alte incrmation ye renee genie
biden i both sext anc pictures and each sand ofthe
fmystery uncavels is seven the neat. The Quest of the
Hal awais yo Do YOU date mage up the chalengs?

ie
al
frei

ae

‘THE TASKS OF TANTALON
‘Stew cis
hastratnd by Stephen Lani

Gallnara ic eelng fom the aftermath of long and
cpa ar Tamra eo se
Se ver an inner Counsel seers Hugh jesay
‘eng lor poreer. Het Teele’ yorrs we ceaving oe
Sose In unico werk ons the Lingdom’s sharpest uti
“Tantalon has detsed an epicadventureyorst YOU Te
courpetias inthe Somerew= gem con YOU steal the
Eemtone Dragon's ensure heard? Wil YOU fed way
{© fixe Sir Dunstable from tapeionment inthe Stn
‘Dungeon? sed fw sel YOU catch the Demoa Fish? All
fhe tnferanon you need is iagenously owen in the
text and picture Al YOU hove 40 0 tate up the
(Saenge rack the mystery!
Fantasy titles in Penguin for older readers

THE DRAGONLANCE CHRONICLES
Margaret Weis and Tracy Hickman

From the creators of Dungeons and Dragons now comes
Dragonlance, an exciting new fantasy trilogy about the &
creatures of legend who threaten the destruction of the REBEL
world of Krynn. ! Espero voy sosagsieey PLANET
A group of long-time friends — knight and barbarian, rs
warrior and half-elf, dwarf and kender and dark-souled : .
mage — are given the power to save the world. Join their
exciting adventures in a quest to find the True Gods and
save Krynn from endless night.

1. DRAGONS OF AUTUMN TWILIGHT

A small band of unlikely heroes set out on their quest.
to save Krynn from the dragons’ evil grasp. They have
hope — a blue crystal staff in the hands of a beautiful
woman - and they have courage. But the forces of evil are
SirOng Se.

2. DRAGONS OF WINTER NIGHT

The darkness deepens and the companions begin a
dangerous search for the Dragon Orbs and the legendary
Dragonlance, ancient weapons of the True Gods.

3. DRAGONS OF SPRING DAWNING

The dread enemy, Takhisis, the Queen of Darkness,
poisons all with her evil. Only Tanis, the leader of the
band of heroes, has the will to destroy it. He must
summon all his strength, courage and faith for the ordeal
which lies ahead . . .

—
TTOMRRIERATTTGHIATATTAUEITRACAPRTT THEN yeti Aiiitne| aT en aa ae a
