a4

s&s. + J - eed f= * 4 -

' FIG HTING FANTASY BOOKS |

-)

: _ Cunn ning , opponents and ¢ d leadly A Androids

await you — as an intergalactic bounty

hts ee ‘sry oie ®

_ bunter!

The unscrupulous Gromulans, who have long
been based an the obscure planet Earth, have
kidnapped the Galactic President. YOU are the
top Rogue Tracer of that sector of the galaxy.
You have forty-cight hours before the top-—
secret contents of the President's mind will
have becn extracted by Gromulan brainscan.
Can you overcome your lethal opponents, find |
the President and rescuc him in time?

Part story, part game, this is a book in which

YOU become the hero! Two dice, a pencil and

an eraser are all you need. YOU decide which |

routes to take, mo dangers to risk and which
foes to fight.

Cover sHustration dy Alan Craddock

{fa O-14-05776'5

a

780140 32265

—, =<?

~~

ver 10 million copies sold worldwzde!, ji

“SF , 900 00

ad | r
“ g@LIVINGSTONE —

PRESEN
-
f gG = a i
‘ 1 Ig =| f tl } ne) | | i | ‘| fs

rows

1 Fests.

. ahette SD Leute c®,
Te

Sona

STARSIRIDER

‘When the Gromulans Sidrap the Gales President and
Ihde him somewhere on phinet Furth, the posers that be

surly tars to vows for YOU are the top Rogue Tacoe of
the sect wits thie minor planes tuted. Your jo ito
rescue him. Yor dont nest where he, butyou ko that
‘Soul be up aginst ning oppanents and some ofthe
cacti Amasois athe galany and youare well wate

here ae iklyto be mane unforeseen dangers a8 well
‘You Rave only forty-eight hours which to suosed ater
that the binscasning of the President wll be com
pee.

Fhpodice& pees and an eter areal you aed to embark
fon ths thalling adventure, which is compete with is
‘CStorte nbatsystemn and sere sheet fo recor Your
gainsand loses.

Many dangers fe shea and your success is by no means
ferain. VOU deide which oes follow, which dangers
touskand which aéverares 23h
Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone
THE WARLOCK DF Peer present:

MOLINTATR

THE CITADEL OF CHAOS

THE FOREST OF DOOM

STARSIND TRAVELLER

CITY OF THIEVES

DEATHTRAP DUNGEON

ISLAND OF IRE LIZARD KING

SCORPION SWAMP

CAVERNS OF THE SNOW WITCE

HOUSE GF HELL

TALISMAR OrULaATiI

SPACE ASSASSIN j
FREEWAY FICETER

IoMILe Ul TERZOKM

IMP RINGS CFF KITE

SEAS OF DLOOD ’
APPOLNIMENT WITH FEAR

HUBUL PLARET

UEMONS OF THE OEP

SWORD OF THE SAMURAI

TRIAL OF CHAMPIORS

RONOT COVMARTO

MASKS OF MAYHEM

CREATURE OF Havoc

HENEATH NIGHIMARE CASTLE

CRYU'T OF THE SORCERER

STAR STRIDER

PHANIOMS GFILAR

MIDNIGHT HOXGLE

CHASMS OF MALICE

BATTLEBLADE WARRIOR

SLAVES UF TID ANYSS ' ~
SRY LORD

STEALER OF SOULS L k Sh
DAGGERS OF DAXKKNESS uxe arp
ARMIES OF DEATH

PORTAL OF EVIL

elon A AES lilustrated hy Gary Mayes

Steve Jackwon's SORCERY!

2. The Shamuotant Hills

> Khar - Gtepert of Traps
2. The Seven Secpents

4 The Crown of Knee

FLO MTING NANTASY — The Rite-pley ig Gace

THE RIDILING REAVER

OUT OF THE PIT ~ Fighting Fantesy Manse : '

TITAN — The Faaling Fantasy Word PUFFIN BOOKS
See
‘YkngMengusac "a ek Si Now Yas Nee ae BANE. OSA

erga ks Leprol Wa Hamann Mc.

hstoerne

omy on Ste tno nan, 1
"eeepc tae a
ana eg ows

See

"nog ts conan tee

‘Tolsatelle
ane the Felines frome Wists 4
CONTENTS

3
5
6
9

a5
THE MISSION

Rogue Tracer. A hunter of fugitives, criminals
and wanted beings who have a price on their
heads. Formerly known as bounty hunters.
Licensed by the Tracebeam Organization. Elite
Rogue Tracers are known as Star Striders,

Encyclopedia Gelactiu

Special message follows - .

The Gromulans have kidnapped President Xerin of
Galaxy One Federation. He has been taken to a
quadrant in the northern hemisphere of the planet
Earth. It is feared that he is being brainscanned at
this very moment and the Zand Corporation
assures us that his cephaloprotector will hold out
only for a further forty-eight gravity hours. After
that time our computer defence codes will be in
Gromulan hands and probably in the hands of our
enemies, the Empire of the Purple Mag. You are the
best Rogue Tracer in Sector 6. In the galactic top
money-making table, you rank 97. You have been
chosen very carefully and your mission, should you
decide to accept it (Standard Contract, M.1., Special
Rates}, ts as follows:

You will make your way to Earth under the pretext
of your Rogue Tracer activities, locate the President
and GET HIM OUT. Spacefleet 7 will be waiting in

9
Earth orbit for your signal. Please note that success-
fal completion of your mission will make you very
rich, but if you do not accept the assignment,
Tracebeam assure us that they cannot guarantee the
future flow of criminal records to your terminal for
tracing.

Please indicate your acceptance of the mission

Thank you. Further details now follow:

the Gromulans are a humanoid, hyper-intelligent
peaple of unknown ongin who have previously
only dabbled in world-scale terrorism. They are
experts in the construction of Androids and are
masters of illusion. They are the originators of Ihus-
Vision 70 for Galaxy Ents Corporation, but were
robbed of all copyright in the last century. Their
latest invention is the Mus-o-Scupe, a portable
illusion generator. The Gromulans will be expecting
a rescue attempt, so BEWARE! To assist you, we
are activating our ‘planted’ spy Androids in that
sector. Look out for these and the CodeMatch sig-
nal, but be extremely careful: the Groms are experts
in ‘tuming’ dedicated Andrmds

‘The Gromulans have been using Earth as a base for
the last century. It is a small, insignificant planet on
the edge of the galaxy. Once heavily populated, but
now in decline, most of its native inhabitants have
emigrated to Alphacent. Its only source of credits is
the servicing of freightcruisers and the mining of
salt. Unfortunately, the phozon crystal does not

io

function in that solar system and we cannot pin-
point locations with sensormatics. You will have to
signal the rescue fleet ance you have found the
President.

The remoteness of the Earth and the lack of sensor
detection has meant thal fugitives have flocked to
the planet. You will find many ‘targets’ on Earth,
so you may be kept busy in your normal profession;
this makes the rescue more difficult, but also

strengthens your cover.

11
LIKELY ENEMIES

Gromulans

Gromulans are very intelligent humanoids, who
would rather surrender than risk a fight im the
physical sense. They specialize in deception and can
talk the three hind legs off 2a Wooki. They were
nomadic, but have settled on Earth for the last
hundred gravity years, where they have developed
their Androids and patent Illus-o-Scope. Some re-
ports talk of an addiction to chess and small Earth

Gromulan Androids

These can vary tremendously in design and type-
They are the main power-base of the Groms and the
Excel Class are VERY DANGEROUS. You are
skilled in techniques of fighting Androids and will
have a good chance against Guards, GromPols,
Admins, Sw s, cic., but try to steer clear of
Excels. If you do get dose to ane, probe for de-
activation points: the Groms fear their creations
turning on them and all models have built-in weak
spots. As with all standard types, a badly damaged
Android will self-destruct.

12

Fugitives and Criminals

You may meet anyone from a tax-dodging Ferian to
a Pirate Prince. Many will leave you alone, but if
they suspect you of being a Rogue Tracer, they may
run or attack. Remember, you operate within the
Galactic Law and are bound not to kill human
beings. If you do, you will be a fugitive and be
hunted down. If you do trace fugitives, ‘cache and
mark’ them for future collection.

Houlgans

These are local feuding groups of native Earth or-
gin, believed to number 80-90 tribes. They base
their fanaticism on some long-forgotten religion,
which revolves around colours of clothing, gen-
erally scarves. Each tribe has its own style and
colour. Their individual combat potential is zero,
but they can be irritating in Jarge numbers. You
might be able to use them to your advantage. Most
important among the tribes are R’al, Juve, Stienn,
L'pool and G'ners, Do not on any occasion wear a
coloured scarf: Houlgans will only take offence.

a3
Dlusory Monsters and Demons

Groms have a liking for this sort of thing. Always
remember that the illus-o-Scope will not be very far
away. You WILL be frightened. Gromulan illusions
have been known to make a Brontian take fright
note that they can also be on a very large scale.

WEAPONS

Rogue Tracers do not carry many personal arms; the
basic weapon is the Catchman, designed by Ulidor
Zonie. It shoots out a fine liquid plastic, which takes
the form of netting, wraps itself around the prey
and thus totally incapacitates him, her or it. Unfor-
tunately it has a high failure rate (33 per cent).
Rogue Tracers are skilled in the use of all weapons —
blasters, stun guns, even the old-fashioned neutron-
swords — but in the last resort they rely on their
quick thinking, fast reflexes and superb fitness.

15
ABILITIES

The mission vou are about to undertake will involve
your travelling on a strange planet and facing un-
known dangers. You must therefore determine
your strengths and weaknesses. You will need two
dice, a pencil and an eraser. Scores, dues and time
factors are to be recorded on the Adventure Sheet

provided (pages 22-3).

Skill

Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter the
total in the skiLL box. A high sx1Lt score shows

Stamina

Roll two dice, Add 12 to the result and enter the total
in the STAMINA box. This shows how fit you are,
and how determined you are to succeed in your
mission. The higher the score, the longer you will
survive. STAMINA will be lost and restored
throughout the mission, Always remerber to look
after yoursclf: if food is available, have some; if rest
is opportune, take it. Remember, you cannot go on
for ever like a phozon-powered Crinkletron! A high

16

STAMINA score will also help you out of difficult
situations that require physical effort, such as min-
ning, jumping, leaping, swimming, etc.

Luck

Even a top Rogue Tracer needs lots of LUCK to
survive. Roll one die. Add 6 to the result and enter
the total in the LucK box. When asked to Tesf your
Luck, roll two dice. If the result is equal to or less than
vour current £0cK score, then you have been
Lucky. If the result is greater than your LUCK score,
then you have been Unlucky. Each time you Tesi
your Luck, you must reduce your LUCK score by 1
poimt. There will be times when LUCK points are
restored, but if you find that you have no Luck
score, you will be Unlucky in any test.

Fear

Roll one die. Add 6 to the result and enter the total in
the F&ax box. Since the Gromulans rely so heavily
on ilfusiors calculated to scare, you miust al limes
Test your Fear Factor. A bad state of mind can affect
your STAMINA and SKILL, and you may be asked to
reduce these, if you fail the test. Determme if you
are frightened in the same way as you determine
Luc (see above). The F®ak score stavs the same
throughout the mission.

17
Time

Time is crucial in this mission. You must complete
your task before Time runs out. You begin with 48
Time units, which will reduce as you progress in
your quest. Note the reductions carefully. Do not
waste 11Me, but spend rime gathering clues that
will save Time later on, It your TIME score ever
reaches zero, you have failed: the Gromulans have

extracted the defence codes from the President's
brain,

18

COMBAT

You are armed witha Catchman, which you can use
to avoid combat, but you will have to fight your way
out of certain situations. If you have to fight, it will
usually be hand to hand against one opponent,
However, there will be occasions when you have to
fight with weapons. In both cases the rules of
combat are as follows:

1. Record your opponent's SKILL and STAMINA
scores in an Encounter Box on the Adventure
Sheet.

2. Roll wo dice for your opponent. Add its SKIL
score. The total is its Attack Strength.

3. Work out your own Attack Strength in the same
way, by adding the roll of two dice to your SKILL
score.

4. If your Attack Strength is higher than your op-
ponent’s, then you have struck a good blow.
Subtract 2 points from your opponent's sTAM-
INA SCOTe.

5. If vour opponent's Attack Strength is greater,
then you have been hit. Subtract 2 points from
your STAMINA score.

6. ifboth Attack Strengths are equal, then you have

avoided each other's blows.

Adjust STAMINA scores and begin the next

Attack Round.

2

19
8. Repeat the sequence until one STAMINA score
reaches zero, when the fight is over.

If you lose, this usually means death, Dut there will
be occasions when you can craw] away and try to
build up your STAMINA agai.

If you throw double 6 at any time while fighting an
Android, then you have found the ‘weak spot’ and
de-activated it.

FEATS AND TASKS

in certain special cases you will be asked to use your
STAMINA and SxItt scores for other purposes,
stich as aerial combat, shooting at craft, etc. in these
cases you must enter details in the specrat En-
counter Boxes on the Advemniure Sheet, but you must
NOT reduce your real SrA MINA score.

Throughout the mission you will be asked to deter-
mine distances tojump, leap, swim, etc., by the roll
of the dice, and to determine your ability to achieve
these feats by adding the roll ofa dic to yourcurrent
STAMINA Score; you must enter these details in the
PHYSICAL TASKS Doxes Of the Adventure Sheet, but
you must NOT increase your actual sTAMINA
score.

GOOD LUCK,

Message ends.
ADVENTURE SHEET — Encounter boxes

me ~—|_'| crues sxmi. ‘| stasana | Skit = Stitt = | Sait = Skit =
8 Initizi eaten! Stoming = | Stamime = Staming = Steminu —
“4 Stati = | Neansa— |
r
——= L :
ee
LUCK FEAR [ suas = Stall — | Skul = Sill =
Imttiai = | Stemias = Stamime = Stamina = Steaming =
iatos, |
: : i
— | CALCULATIONS i? = | Seat = Skik= | | Skit=
Sieorims — Secours — Stamina — Slamina =
= = )
| | OXYGEN
, : "a — o— Ss
— TA —.
SS PHYSICAL | PHYSICAL PHYSICAL PHYSICAL |
ao TASKS | | TASKS TASKS TASKS
—
_— SPECIAL SPECIAL SPECLAL SPECIAL,
= ~—
Careers = a

="

32 ae Mie
Ek aes & OSES REE oO Pf
abr bres? DEE EC CSS. tf? |
IIT IT IT INIT
VIII IIe ee
Wrrre Rene seeees BS ae.)
PYF IT ET III it A\
I SEMES SLRS ay —

ae oeeeenaare? & way,
it Gs SB toh oe BS ay
ytytthhe. UN
ttt

82 Get Sabah

—
7 >

. 4

.

1
You have docked into Earth Shuttle Station 23. ’All
lines to Ear— Sector 3,’ a bright neon light
announces. You park your Oberon craft in the
short-term airlock and walk down toa dirty-looking
ticket-office. There's no one around. You bang on
the small plexi-glass window and eventually a
MegeCorp Android appears and shutters at you. lt
chould have been out of commission years ago, It
has difficulty in understanding your request for a
ticket on the next shuttle, but eventually takes vour
credit card and utters what vou will soon recognize
as @ traditional Earth saving, ‘That'll do nicely." As
you trudge away down the corridor, you hear the
MegaCorp squeaking at you to “have a nice day’.

There are about twenty seats in the shuttle, of which
only five are occupied. You are directed to your seat
and given a copy of the safety procedures by a
service Android, and von sit down on something
sticky. The Android asks you what you will have,
Will you reply:

Turn © 199

Turn to 69
Turn to 203

Nothing?
A cocktail?
Food cubes?

2
You ate in an empty chamber. There are exits north:
east {turn to 7) and south-west (turn te 495). ‘To the
north-west is another tunnel! (turn to 27)
3-4

3

As you walk along the trench you hear the rumble of
machinery below vou. You tap the walls on cither
side and find that they are not solid. You kick hard
and the side wall collapses. Inside there is a tunnel
with a long conveyor belt full of salt headmg back
to Roma. You jump on and take a nde. Add 2
STAMINA points and turn to 149.

4

They sit you down and give you some “home brew"
that tastes like rocket fuel, They obviously think that
you too are a fugitive, and they do not question you
too closely. They seem to be planning raids on Grom
houses in the area and you see that there might be
an Opportunity of getting to a ComTerm for mm
formation, Suddenly a large, bearded rogue with a
fat belly comes up to you and punches you m the
face. Do you fight back with all your might (turn to
216) or let him beat you (turn to 141)?

5
You stand at the left terminal. It is obvious that a
chess move involving the knight is needed. There is
one knight and there are two possible moves. Do
you press knight to king's bishop three (turn to 160),
or knight to king’s rook three (turn to 112)?

6

Suddenly a Grom appears in front of you. This is
obviously an Llus-o-Scope image, since heis tall and
good-looking. He smiles and tells you that their
valactic ‘moles’ have got information that you are
here to rescue the President. All you have to do is
confess and you will be richly rewarded. If not, you
will never be released and your mission will fail
anyway. Do you admit to your mission (turn to 57)
or keep silent (turn to 122)?
7-8

7
You are in a chamber packed full of food cubes and
drink tubes. A Forkliftron is busy stacking small
boxes. Do you wish to rest, eatand drink? If you do,
deduct 5 TIME units and add 4 STAMINA points.
There are exits north-east (turn to 21) and south-
west (turn to 2).

You are correct: A + B-—1=C. Thedoorslidesopen
and you are faced with an exact replica of yourself,
Catchman in hand, You ignore the illusion and it
slowly fades away. You see the ComTerm in front af
you. You can stil] hear blasters firing in the distance
and you realize that Gus is buying you some pre-
cious time. The screen shows:

Pass-code 67 64 73 46 ?

Work out the next number in the sernes and then
turn to that number. If you cannot work it out, turn

to 169,

All your senses say no, but you step into the cockpit
and the hands grab for your legs. You feel nothing.
You sit down where the seat should be and a hand
wraps itself around your throat from behind. You
slip your hands into the bubbling mud and guess at
the location of the rocket starter. The rocket screams
and the mud becomes transparent and fades. You
look behind you and on the back seat is a piece of
Gromulan technology: part of an Tilus-o-Scope is
wired up to the Zip’s shield and was obviously used
by the Lurgan to protect his craft. Turn to 211.

Vn3a8

Ww tf to

m «

bs
*

= ?

--
v t.

Cc
a

10-11

19
You check carefully that there are no Groms or
Androids in sight and then strideinto the room. The
other criminals stare in amazement. ‘lhe terminal is
showing Vidnews as part of high-security Grom
TV. Suddenly you see the President with a Grom
and two Guards. You look carefully at the cvordi-
nates on the left of the screen. The first four groups
are standard galactic space codes for Earth Sector
North, but you do not recognize the last group.
However you take care to memorize the code. You
head for the door, but just then a Grom walks in. He
emits 2 muted scream and you move to hit him, but
he collapses in a tearful heap. You go through the
Joor and are promptly grabbed by two Excels. Turn

ce

The Android is a domestic-servant type, but is
equipped with a sensitive ‘people-placer’. It senses
you, goes over to a panel and is about to press a
button. You rush at it. Test your Luck, If you are
Lucky, you have caught it before it has hit the
Sutton (furn to 236). If vou are Unlucky, two Excels
appear. They grab you and stun vou. You have no
chance against them.

12-13

i2

Deduct 2 TIME units. You are in a chamber with
exits narth (turn to 336) or west (tum to 180). A
southern exit is blocked.

13

You punch Lam in the face and scramble off towards
Willi. fhe manhole it is holding open is rusty. You
jump in and Willi follows, dropping the lid and
locking it from the inside. You are in a dark, airless
hole. There is a passageway ahead and in the dis-
tance you can see a faint light. Willi beams up its
eyes to give you some light to negotiate the mass of
pipes and wires in the tunnel. As vou both walk
along, Willi trips up and sits in a puddle. You carry
on heading for the light; it is coming from a grille up
above, Just then you hear a low moan and tum
around. Willi has disappeared. The moan is coming
from an access shaft down below. Do you decide to
climb up to the grille (turn to 192) or go down the
shaft (turn to 255)?

14-15

Inside “Le Spot’ it is dark. There are sealed cubicles
that take credits. You put one in and a door slides
open; you walk in and sit down im the single chair
provided. Four set menus appear on a screen. ‘The
descriptions are very appetizing, You opt for the
most expensive menu, but all you get are the same
old cubes in different wrappings. Add 2 STAMINA
points and turn to 136.

a5

it stops whining and heads for the street. You let it
pass. It dawns on you that in VidEnts there is a
certain code about ‘showdowns’, and it will not be
expecting an attack from behind. You pull out the
Catchman and fire three spurts. The Excel topples
over, but begins to tear the plasti-net apart. You call
the men to help and all three of you fall on top of the
Android. Its strength is immense. Meanwhile the
girl has got into the ZipCar and hacked it down
towards the fight. You ail get out of the way and as
the Excel gets up to rip you all to pieces, she blasts
the rocket motor at its back. The Android goes
down, with plenty of circuitry exposed in its back,
Turn to 262.
16-17

16

The others drag the insensible Gigantian away and
chain you up. You watch them go out and look for
your equipment, Your Chronograph and Catchman
are on a chair dose by. From what you've heard,
you know that you are in Paris and that if you could
send out a CadeMatch signal, a ‘planted’ Android
might pick it up. You stretch out your foot, trying to
hook the chair and pull it towards you. Roll two dice
and add up the total; this is the distance you will
have to stretch. Roll one die and add the number to
yoursTa MLN 4 score: this is the limit of your stretch.
li the distance is greater than the stretch, you are
stuck and you have failed in your mission. If not,
turn to 94.

47

You break open a cube and bite into the sticky
brown mess. Just then you hear the roar of Rocket
Bikes and, before you can look up, Lopsti bursts in
with his gang. You are surrounded. They swing
clubs and finger their stun guns. Lopsti wants you
toe go with then. Do you try to ight (turn to 248), ar
will you go with them and try something later (turn
to 175)?

18-19

18

You are correct in your calculations: A+ C x 2. The
door slides open and vou walk into a dark room.
The only light comes from the glow of a ComTerm.
The screen shows a list of options including one
called ‘Security’. You press this and a sub-menu
appears with an option for “The President’. You
smile in admiration at the logical and highly efficient
Groms. You press this option but all you get is a
sequence of numbers:

r 8 27 ?

Calculate the next number in the sequence and turn
to that number. You will be told immediately if you
are correct. If you cannot work out the sequence,
turn to 324.

19

Kinta Lopsti has beaten you, While he rushes off to
call the rest of his gang, you crawl under the stairs of
the diner and through a broken air-shaft grille. You
hear the gang arrive and Lopsti’s tantrum at losing
you. They eventually set off with their Rocket Bikes
roaring. You crawl out and get back to the diner. Itis
deserted. You find a Silverhound bus schedule
which shows a much-reduced service: the next one
leaves in forty-eight gravity hours. The diner oper-
ates only when the bus passes through. You are
tred and hungry. You find a food dispenser but it
will not accept your credit. Will you break it open
(turn to 102) or go outside (turn to 230)?
20-22

20

The door opens easily and you see a 3-D projection
of the galactic rescue fleet. You look around and
realize that you are in a Grom transmission studio,
which is beaming out the latest news to the Grom
ComTerm screens. As you wonder at the size of the
rescue Heet, a Grom technician walks in, sees you,
shneks and runs out again. Before you can move, a
Gigantian appears, who straightens up as he comes
through the door and locks at you. You clutch the
neutronsword, but the Gigantian opens its mouth
and @ Korwellien death bolt shoots out and into
your forehead. You have no chance,

21
You are in a chamber with blocked exits to the north
and south-east. Do you go:

North-east? Turn to 62
East? Turnto48
South-west? Turn to 85
West? lurmto?

here is also a modern smaller tunnel to the north-
west (furn to 82).

22

The Silverhound furches off and you have to listen
to the reps’ dirty stories about the pleasure-planet of
Luxurus, Eventually you reach Madrid and every-
dod¥ gets off. Turn to 179.
23-26

23

You step into empty space. You spim as though
weightless and a beam blasts at you. All that re-
mains of you is some dust in the corner, soon to be

swept under the carpet by a faulty Sweepertron.

24

You carry the President through the tunnel and
come to the bottom of a spiral staircase. Next to the
stairs is a large, very old-fashioned elevator covered
in ancient ads that mean nothing to you. You can
hear your pursuers. Do you try the elevator (turn to
307} or go up the stairs (turn to 371)?

25
The ladder is strong but very greasy and slippery.
There are no features on the smooth steel shafts and
you rest for several gravity minutes every once ina
while. The light from above gets nearer. Deduct 2
TIM units, Turn to 209.

26

You walk through and the door slides shut. You are
in a square glass tank, with water hanging above
you! You see no sign of the door you have just used.

Suddenly a heavy steel ball with spikes falls out of
the water above you and crashes through the floor.

Others follow in random positions. Deduct 2 TIME
units. Test your Luck three times. If you are ever
Unlucky, one of the balls has hit you (turn to 202). If
you are always Lucky, the balls have weakened the

floor. It collapses and you fall through (turn to 3335).

27-29

27
You speed into the new tunnel and impale yourself
on 2 mass of long steel spikes. The tunne] was
merely an illusion, a Grom trick.

28
You lie down flat in the dirty muck. The Rat stops
just in front of you. It begins to weld a section of
pipe; you keep still. It moves off, but then stops and
comes back. A probe emerges from its middle. It will
detect your body-heat and blast you. Do you run for
it {turn to 289) or break the probe (turn to 81)?

29

As you approach the Houlgans, they notice you and
slowly surround you. ‘They watch you carefully.
Some of them are swinging chains in the air. One of
them, who appears to be the leader, asks you if you
have any credits. You look at him carefully and sce
that he has the figure go scrawled on his cheek. Do
you give them any credits (turn to 147) or refuse and
stand your ground (turn to 287)?

go~3t

30
You stand still. The GromPol craft lands and two

Excels appear on either side of you. [he Android
you were following also steps up. They search you
thoroughly and find your 1D, Catchman and
Chronograph. The Android takes your Chrono-
graph. It finds the secret CodeMatch, presses it, and
a matching beep is emitted from the Android’s arm.
Immediately you are in a box: an obvious illusion,
but the perspective keeps changing and the walls
get larger, smaller, taller and shorter. You are dis
onentated and wake up ina Grom cell strapped toa
Zand Corporation ‘Tell Us All’. You embark on a
long process of interrogation. You cannot compiete
your mission.

31

You look around. In the distance two Guard
Androids are walking along a wide avenue. It
appears as though they are looking for something.
You stroll away and turn left dawn a smaller road,
where you notice an old Vidprint shop with some
antiquarian floppies in the window. You have not
seen floppies since your visit to the Cavod and
Xiberti museum when you were a kid, Do you goin
(turn to 254) or carry on (turn to 83)?

32733

32

You look around. You are in the grounds of a
well-kept house. You walk through the gardens and
then hear someone calling: it turns out tobe a Grom,
who has come out of the house. He tells you that he
is glad you have come, since the acidity regulator is
faulty, so the Mus-co-Scope will not work and the
Androids are incapacitated. He takes you past
several immobile Androids to his ComTerm and
looks at you expectantly. You cannot resist the
opportunity, so you grab him and threaten him
into consulting Grom Security with details about
the President. The blood drains from his thin face
as he quickly fumbles with the keys; then he col-
lapses in a dead faint. Deduct 2 rim units and turn
tO 237-

33

You have calculated correctly: A+ B-—1=C. The
screen shows a menu and you pick security in-
formation. Another menu appears which includes,
with typical Grom efficiency, an option for the
President. You press this option and all you get is:

212 (59) %

737 «(?) 173
if you can supply the correct answer, tum to
that section. You will be told that you are correct
straight away. If youcannot supply the answer, turn
to 294.
34-35

The Android rushes out and falls face down in front
of you. It has two holes in its side, and in its hand is
2 piece of paper. You read what's on the paper and
you recognize the first three groups of code as the
galactic coordinates for London; the fourth group
you note down (if you do not already have it).
Deduct 2 trme units. Suddenly a Grom craft
appears, its cannons blasting at you. You run for it.
Do you go left (turn to 104) or right (turn to 156}?

35
You stop in the tunnel when you meet yourself,
with neutronsword in hand. You suspect an
illusion, but dismiss that thought as the beam slices
into the shoulder-pads of your coat. You realize
that the Groms have been busy building a replica
Android which you will now have to fight.

REPLICA ANDROID SKILL49 STAMINA 10

lf you win, a small flying leech from Stokex g shoots
out of the Android‘s body and fastens itself to your
leg. You have to cut it out. Reduce your sTAMINA
by 2 and turn to 21-

36-38

36
You head off south with Willi towards its master’s
house. Willi is very chatty: it has been given a
Random Personality Chip. Some of its coordination
functions have been corrupted, however, and it
drops its boxes again. By the time you reach the
house you are carrying most of them. There are
three Guards at the house. plus an Hlus-o-Scope and
various other Grom devices, Willi calls you when
the coast is clear and points to the door at the top of
the stairs. It has not had a chance to get inside and
investigate the ComTerm. You nun up the stairs and
find the door unlocked. Will you rush straight in
(turn to 260), ordo vou prefer to check out a possible
alarm circuit (turn to 301)?

37
You are in a chamber with blocked exits south,
narth-east and north-west. There is an unmarked
door (turn to 20), and exits west (turn to 3§3) and
east (turn te 126).

You press ‘A’ and on the screen you see:
QO867 RISB 20KK

You recognize this as the open code for London
base. Then the sereen goes blank. Turn to 368.

39-40

39

The shuttle lands in the dark segment of the planet,
in what appears to be a desolate area of Sector 3.
There are no habitation lights and you assume that
this base station was built in the days when'shuttles
needed huge landing-areas, Afl the passenyers
troop out into the station You look up and see the
familiar Rocket-a-Hire sign and go over to a shoddy
counter. There is no Android on duty. You stand
there reading ZipCar brochures while all the other
passengers file towards the Silverhound which is
waiting outside, smoke belching from its rocket
outlets: its destination ts Madrid. In the far corner a
Sweepertron takes a break from its work and looks
at you. Do you wait around for a ZipCar (turn to
145), talk to the Android (turn to 357), or join the
others in the Silverhound (turn te 373}?

Vou: wake so aid Gad pommel ug by oor ant-
gravity swimming-pool. As you stare at the block of
water, the Grom comes out and apologizes for the
deceit, ‘but it does make the game more interesting
when the stakes seem to be life itself’, He gives you
food and drink {add 4 sTAMINA paints), then talks
to you for several gravity hours and lets slip that he
is highly placed in Gromulan HQ. In the corner near
the house is a ComTerm which occasionally beeps.
When the Grom leaves for a momenf, you catch a
glimpse of the Galactic President on the screen. Do
you approach the ComTerm (turn to 242), or stay
where you are (turn to 190)?
41-42

aia : .
The ZipCar performs well and logs in a flight path
far Madrid. You set it for ‘autoland’ and key in the
required landing-request data. You relaxas the craft
does all the work for you and sets you down with a
gentle bump. Deduct 2 TIME units.

You get out and snap the plexi-giass top down. You
notice that the Mlus-o-Scope is eee | a work
apain; it is filling the cockpit w you
walk away you look back and sera GromPol looking,
over the ZipCar; you suddenly realize that it is
stolen. You will not be able to return to it. Turn to

179.

12 -

You run very fast, but two Androids appear behind
you and give chase- Roll three dice and add up the
total: this is the speed of the Androids. Ifitis greater
than your sTaMina, they have made you change
direction (turn to 262), If your sta MINA is equal to
or greater than their speed, you have outrun them.
You carry on for a while and then stop by a large
building and look around (turn te $9).

43-4

8

The Android tells you it is from the GUS series
(Genus Undercover and Subterfuge) and sets a fast
pace to the east. t weaves through the side-streets
and soon you are both standing outside a Grom
mansion. Gus does not hesitate on seeing the two
Guards at the door. It tells you to wait and then
approaches the Guards, walking backwards and
dragging one foot. The Guards walk towards Gus,
curiosity Greuits buzzing. As they draw level, Gus
takes the first guard’s head off with a hand blow and
kicks a chunk out of the seconds middie. You rush
to help, while the Guards kick, gurgle and buzz.
You sit on one until it self-destructs. Then you
follow Gus into the house. ‘ComTerm should be on
the floor above,’ it tells you as it adopts a position by
the elevator, blaster in one hand, stun gun in the
other. When you reach the top you can hear the
swish of blaster fire. You realize that you haven't
much time. There is a door ahead: turn to 92.

+4

You are in a chamber which has obviously been
refurbished im hi-tech Grom style. There is a
Vidsereen on the wall with an image of you and a
wamung that you are probably in the Inner London
base. Deduct 2 TIME units. There is a door marked
Strictly no unauthorized entry’ (turn to 334), and
exits west (turn to 71) or east (turn to 137).
45-46

45

You are very tired by the time you land at Roma
terminal. You check when the bus is due to leave
and set an alarm on your Chronograph. You stagger
out of the terminal and the first sign you see is that
of a Fast Food and Sleep Unit. It looks very shabby
and some dubious characters from the bus are
heading for it.

That'll do nicely,’ squeals the gate mechanism
when you slip your credit in. Inside you pick up
some cubes advertised as Virwat-duck flavour and
sit on a broken chair munching the tasteless mush.
You look around you; rubbish litters the area and is
being kicked about by all sorts of rogues; a couple
you recognize are worth a few hundred credits, but
you are far too tired. Sitting on one of the sleep units
is a woman cleaning a stun gun. She looks familiar
and stares at you. Then she lies down and closes up
her unit. You do the same. Add 6STAMINA points,

When you get up, she is just leaving. Do you follow
her (turn to 153) or hurry on in your search (turn to
142)?

Deduct 2 Tre units. The one straight ahead gives
you the best chance of using the Catchman. You
fire: throw a die. Lf you throw 1-3, it has failed (turn
to 207). If you throw 4-6, you have caught one of the
gang (turn to 345).
47-49

47

Suddenty the scene changes. You are standing by 2
beautiful beach, the sun is setting and you know
that you are rich and poweriul, bul you cannot
remember any details. You are about to remember,
when your Rogue Tracer mind-training reasserts
itself and you know that this is just another Grom
brain-game. The scene fades into darkness. Four
doors appear. A voice tells you that three of them
lead to death and one leads to freedom, and that the
choice is yours. You are also forced into a decision
by the wall behind you glowing red hot and pushing
you towards the doors. The doors are marked with
chess symbols. Do vou choase:

The pawn? Turn to 23
The knight? Tum to 166
The rook? Turn to 212
The bishop? Tum to225

+5
You are in a chamber with a blocked exit south-east
and exits east (turn to 331), west (turn to 21) and
north-west (turn to 62}.

49
You head towards the right-hand shelter. The bullis
ready to charge. You wait for it to get Close enough
to prod with the spear.

BULL SKILL 7 STAMINA 12

50-53

if you reduce the bull’s sTAMINA to 6, you have
struck its shoulder circuits, There are some sparks
and smoke, and you run into the shelter. You look
around, but there is no door: you must try the other
shelter. Turn to 378.

50

You keep your hands away from your coatand walk
towards the Android. You hear one of the men say,
‘He is mad, his circuits are all twisted.’ The Android
whips out its gun, but then stands stock-still making
2 whirring noise. Deduct 2 TIME units. Do yuu try
to immobilize it (turn to 205) or to get more in-
formation from the peuple in the bar (turn to 306)?

52

You are in Red room, Level 1. There are two doors
leading downwards. Reduce oxyGen level by 1. Do
you go left (turn to 97) or right (turn to 181)?

32
A shot blasts near you and you collapse. The
Androids approach you, while the craft is blasted
out of the sky by Grom defence missiles, They grab
you just as you begin to black out. Turn to 322.

53
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 395. Lf you
are Unlucky, turn to 67.
54-55

54

You are right to refuse. Rogue Tracers never give
any information on likely targets. The Grom accepts
this fact and smiles. He stares at you without speak-
ing. You look him up and down and realize how
remarkably slight he is and how easy he would be to
overpower. Just then his neck lengthens and his
head stretches from where he is sitting to right in
front of your face. His mouth widens and is full of
fangs about to bite your head off! Test your Fear
Factor. If you are frightened, reduce your STAMINA
by 1 point. Then you are allowed back on the bus.
Turn to 219.

55

You have broken a beam. Everything becomes fluid;
images change. You find yourself on a large black
square. You look around and see similar black and
white squares and giant chess pieces all laid out on
either side of you. To the left a giant white pawn
rushes towards you and stops in the white square,
then to your right a black knight leaps out and lands
with a thump on the black square diagonally next to
yours. You know it's an illusion, but it has a power-
ful effect on your brain. The biack knight begins to
chase you, and you run for the edge of the board. It
lands just behind you with a loud crash. Ahead a
black pawn blocks the way. You can either stand
still (turn to 129) or go left (turn to 172).
56-58

56
You are in a chamber with exits east {turn to 395) and
north (turn to 288}.

57 :
[he Grom smiles and looks you up and down. Then

all your molecules are blasted apart.

58

7 es
You walk up toit. Do you demand a ‘showdown In
the street (turn to 15) or ask it where its horse is (turn
to 214)?

59-60

59

Across from the building you see a flashing sign:

INOs C—us’. You walk up to the front door, which
'S just a bead curtain. You walk through and see a
puke projecting an old Galaxy Ents Promo. You walk
up to the dispenser and press for a Mangola tube.
You look around. There are many ‘untraced’ rogues
about— rich pickings if you were in the mood, In the
far corner a fight begins. Somecme gets punched
and falls into the projection. He is followed by
Orvium, who stands over him and kicks him. Turn
to 275.

You sneak past the house. You are tempted by the
launch, but if it is a Grom craft it will be well
guarded. Just then you see an Excel Android two
hundred metres ahead. It is right in your path and
looking straight towards you. Do you jump into the
bushes (turn to 164) or stay exactly where you are
(turn to 206)?
61—62

61

the woman lies in the water. You get up and turn
around as you hear a noise. You are faced with live
men, all heavily armed. One of them calls out,
Felina!’ The woman mutters, ‘Kill the intruder,’
tou wisely decide to run for it, and they chase you.
Throw three dice and add up the result. If this is
sreater than your STAMINA score, they have caught

mu, and you have no chance against them. If it is
less than or equal to your STAMINA score, you have
sutdistanced them. Turn to 376-

62
fou are in a chamber full of crates. ‘There are exits
blocked by rubble to the north and west. Deduct 2
TIME units. Which way do you go:

East? Turn to 139
North-east? Turn to 318
South-west? Turn to 24
South? lurn to 48

There is also a smaller modern tunnel heading
south-cast (turn to $2)

63-64

63

The Android is disguised as an administrative sup-
port. lt is a good idea to attack it, far you know its
circuits very well. You throw your weight on its
back and as it falls into the bushes, you gently press
the back of its left ear. Automatic functions cease.
You reach inside its mouth and rip out the Com
board to stop it transmitting distress signals. You
have thirty gravity seconds before selfdestruct sets
in. You can ask one question:

Whereis the President kept? Turn to259
Where are Grom secret recordskept? Turn to 339
How can I get into the administrative

building? Turn to 281
What do the Groms know about my
mission? Turn to 102

64

You are correct: 1 cubed, 2 cubed, 3 cubed, etc. The
terminal requests your question. You Key in, Ts the
President in Madrid?’ It answers in the negative.
‘Where is the President?’ It replies. “He is kept at
a high-security Base, reference 169A ... The
message stops, the screen goes blank, and then
you are asked for your family code letter. You press
random keys, but it begins to flash “ILLEGAL
ACCESS’. You memorize the little information you
got out of it. Turn to 124-

65-67

You take a risk! You press the starter and pump at
the pedal. Test your Luck. If you are Unlucky, the
dike does not start immediately and Lopsti has had
tine to hit you with a stun shot (turn to gs). [If you
are Lucky, the bike starts and you are in the air (turn
to 184}.

66

You walk along the street. Here the area is over-
grown, trees poke out of windows, buildings are
crumbling and grass grows on the roads. Suddenly
you hear a grow! and in front of you stands a huge
white wolf. You pull out your Catchman and fire.
Test your Luck. Lf you are Lucky, turn to 303; if you
are Untucky, torn to 355.

67
4 strange dark creature blocks the tunnel. Its arms

end in sharp pointed teeth that move in and out. It
has no head, but there is a large eye in the centre of
its body. If you do not wish to fight, turn fo 85.

LEECH
If you win, turn to 395.

SKILL 7 STAMINA 5

68—69

68

You suggest a game to be played on her parents’
ComTerm, She tells you that she is not allowed in
there, You tell her it’s a code-breaking game. She
stands there debating it in her mind. Her image
grows until she appears to be three metres tall. She
then assumes her real height; small silver stars arcle
her head, and she agrees. She touches a panel in
what seems to be a blank wall and a section of the
floor moves and carries both of you through the
ceiling. You notice a communicator on her wrist and
you realize that she could summon Excel guards if
she wanted. She takes you to a door and tells you
that it’s in there. You ask her to go and get a
Vidcorder and laserpen for the game. You siress
that you want the real thing, no illusions. She skips
off, calling for Beany the Butler. Deduct 2 TIME
units. By the side of the door you see a panel with
the following sequence:

54 (12) 9

1% (7) 2
Work out the correct missing number and go to that
section. You will be told at once that you are correct.
If you cannot work out the missing number, turn to
124,

69
A drink will only doud your judgement and you
will need a clear head for the task in front of you.
Reduce your SKIL by 7 point. Turn to 39.

Fo=7*

70

You leave the grounds of the house with Willhijust as
2 ring of fire rs all round the building. Willi
tells you that the llus-o-Scope has been re-activated
and suggests a very rapid exitoutofthe area. As you
walk along a deserted street you ask Willi about the
central administrative building. It tells you that the
Plaza de Toros is exclusively for Androids and is
built underground below the bullring, a part of the
Grom Ents Compiex. Willi knows that there is a way
into the building through the Ents Complex. As
Willi talks, it disguises itself as a GromPol guard,
but you have to keep stepping to pick up the bits
that it continually drops. Turn to 200.

You are in a chamber which, by its smell, seems to
be the Grom rubbish dump. There are lots of snail
shells around, many with decomposing snails in-
side. Now and again you catch sight of a large rat
delving into the rubbish. There are exits east (turn
to 44) and south (furn to 332).

72

72
You board the bus. All the passengers are from the
shuttle. You sit down and strap up; the Silverhound
urches and then speeds off. From their conversa-
non, you detect that most of the passengers are sales
reps; the main topic is the price of salt-mining
equipment. One passenger, obviously a Grom, sits
ahead in the small first-class section. He is being
attended by his own Android. You begin to doze
otf, while the Vidscreen in front of you shows
endless adverts from Galactic Ents Inc. Deduct 2
TIME urtits.

suddenly you wake up with a start. You look out of
the window to see lights flashing. The bus slows
down and lands in a swirl of dust. Two GromPul
Androids get in and announce that they want to
check IDs. When they see your Rogue Tracer’s
scence, they grab you and throw you outside. Do
you run for it (turn to 385) or go along with them
turn ty 119)?
73

73

You race down the tunnel, splashing through the
sludge and water. You see the occasional dark
shape and then you see more and more. You stop
when you realize that they are giant rats with huge
fangs. You are quickly surrounded by about two
dozen of them. You pull out your Catchman and fire
at the nearest bunch. Test your Luck three times.
Each time you are Unlucky, deduct 3 STAMINA
points for the bites you receive.

You crawl out of the sewer ona rusty ladder and you
see a commercial transport in front of you marked
with the name ‘Escargor’ and a circle with a horizon-
tal line through it, It seems to be about to take off.
Do you stow away on the transport (turn te 239) or
return to the Silverhound terminal (turn to 134)?

74-75

-
4 ow =
2 ft \ ad
> we 0 :
e -
* a : EEE SEP

74
You cannot restrain yourself. Jose and the gang

watch in wonder as you flip over and take on the
rogue in unarmed combat.

ROGUE

sx. 8 STAMINA 8

if you win, you wrap up the rogue in plasti-net,
mark’ him and give the gang share discs in the ‘kill’,
which should keep them from going hungry for
many months. Add 1 tucx point. You go through
the manhole. Turn to 114.

75
You reach the Silverhound terminal and rush for-
ward to slip in your credit. But there is no need to
hurry: there are only two other passengers, both
Androids. They stand still and buzz to each other.
You get on the bus, find a comfortable place and
watch a TravelVid about Roma. Apparently the
Gromulans believe that there is some connection
between the founding of Roma and their race. You
eat several cubes and then go to sleep. Add 3
STAMINA points. Deduct 2 Time units and tum

to 157.
76-77

76

When you approach Paris you are automatically
logged into a Galactic Ents commentary on the city.
Itlooks beautiful, with its heavily overgrown build-
ings. You fly over an old expressway which is solid
with rusted vintage cars — apparently the scene of
the greatest traffic jam the planet ever had in the
previous century when Earth was still heavily popu-
lated, You land the Silverhound at Paris terminal.
When you get out of the craft, you are promptly
arrested by two GromPol Androids for unauthor-
ized flying. Do you fight your way out (turn to 399),
or do you go quietly (turn to 168)?

77
You take off for cover, weaving, twisting and

flipping over, using all your Rogue Tracer agility,
but even so a stun shot hits vou in the back. Itisa
mild blast, but it steps you in your tracks. You go
inside the hotel. Reduce your sta MtNnA by 1 pomt
and turn to 197,

When you reach Paris you see a beautiful over-
grown city. A Galactic Ents commentary automati-
cally starts up on your ZipCar speakers and while
the vehicle follows the pre-set landing coordinates,
you look out and play the tourist. The commentary
is interrupted by a Mangola advert and then the
craft autolands. When you get out of the ZipCar,
two GromPol Androids appear and arrest you for
flying without paying the toll charges. Deduct 2
TIME units. Turn to 324.

79
You follow the main street aimlessly. You stop and
look around you. Turn to 117.
Bo

80

You arrive at the Silverhound terminal with little
time to spare. There are many people milling
around, A sign flashes above the boarding-gate:
‘gus Furl’. You rush towards the Android stand-
ing by the door. You show it your Rogue Trecer’s
iD; there is a sharp intake of air into its system, it
boards the bus and throws off a rather elderly
woman. She is very cross and the other passengers
stare at you while you take your scat. You sit next to
an Excel and try to get some rest, but you find it
difficult because there is a large group of natives al
the front who keep chattering and screarning al one
another while they pass around drink tubes and
food cubes. They do not offer you any. Deduct 2
Time units. Turn to 45.

You snap off the probe and itimmediately begins to
blast in all directions. Roll two dice. If you throw a
double, ithas hit you with a deadly blast, Otherwise
it retires back to where it came from and you carry
on towards the light. You come to a vertical shaft.
Turn to 192.

82

You speed along the tunnel and eventually reach a
chamber with cells leading off it. In the far cell you
can see an Android lying on the floor in the early
stages of self-destruct. You rush over and there in
front of you is the President; his clothing is tattered,
he has a space dagger in his hand and he is
breathing very heavily. You try to calm him down.
just then you hear a noise and tum around, The
President Android stabs you in the back.
83-55

53

You can see a large circular building in the distance,
but as you head towards it you feel the throb of your
Chronograph, which is now pre-set to CodeMatch
with ‘planted’ Androids. You look around you. To
your leftis an Android with some boxes in its hands.
It is being intimidated by a bunch of Houlgans. Do
you help the Android (turn to 276), or do you prefer
to keep a low profile (turn to 319)?

84

[hree of the gang crumple up, entangled in the
plasti-net. You rum for the nearest Rocket Bike,
jump on, start up and take off. You turn around and
notice that no one is pursuing you. Just then the fuel
tank explodes and as you plummet to your death
you remember the remote-destruct anti-theft
device, which is ‘widely available im all good stores
throughout the galaxy’.

85
Deduct 2 Time units. You are in a chamber with a.
dlocked exit south, and exits west (furn to 53) or
north (tur to 267).

> ee

36-88

86

‘So am I, in a manner of speaking,” he says as he
continues {o fly behind the bus and is joined by
three other heavily armed ZipCars. It is obvious that
they intend to attack the Silverhound over the
mountains. You peer over his shoulder and notice a
scan monitor showing up the Catchman in your
coat. Your section of the cockpit is suddenly sealed
and you hear the sound of gas. Turn to 356.

87

You walk along what seems to be an old sewage
system, wading through water and sludge. You
come to a fork in the tunnel. Do you take the
left-hand branch (turn to 372) or the right (turn
tu 202)?

You open the small door and find yourself in a long,
empty corridor. You tread gently and watch out for
alarm beams. Eventually you see ¢ door marked
EXIT, and another door marked:

GromPol and Excel series only. Strictly no
admittance to any other Androids.

Which door do you take, the #xrr (turn to 194) or
the other one (turn to 383)?

89-91

8g

Bracing yourself against the force, you press the
Thruster. The acceleration flattens you into the seat
&s you Speed up to ten times the normal maximum.
The Grom is left far behind. You cannot hope to
siver, but have to rely on auto-pilot. As you climb to
maximum height, the fuel runs out and the rockets
shut off, but you have time to glide in one of three
directions, Which one do you choose:

Lett? Turn to 178
Right? Turn to 234
Straight on? Turn to 398

go

As you walk along, you stumble over a block of
stone. Noticing some writing carved on it, you
brush away the grass to reveal the legend ‘Madrid
180 km’, with an arrow pointing in the direction you
have just come from. You set off back along the
road. Deduct 4 TIME units and turn to 327.

gi

You settle back in vour seat. The door slides open
and the Grom comes in with two GromPols. He
throws you a food cube and asksif you wanta wash.
When you have freshened up, you speed off to
catch the Silverhound. Add 2 STAMINA points,
Deduct 2 Time units and turn to 381.
92-94

g2
You stand by the door and see the following on 4
panel:

6 9 1%

8B 13 20

45 ?
There is a numeric keyboard for keying in the cor-
rect number in the sequence. Groms are logical
people of great intellect, If you find the missing
number, go to that section and you will be told
straight away that you are correct. If you cannot
work out the missing number, turn to 169.

93
The door slides open, You jump left and fire your
Catchman at the rogue on the left. The plasti-net
envelops him. The second pulls out 2 blaster, but
you are on him before he can fire.

ROGUE

If you lose, you are put into a sack and thrown into
the River Tiber, If you win, turn to 138.

SKILL 7 STAMINA 8

4
You pull the chair towards you with your feet until
you can reach the Chronograph. There are two
possible settings: one sends a beam a short distance
but in all directions (turn to 130), the other sends a
long thin beam in one direction (turn to 187).

95-97

95
The gang tie you up and secure you to a Rocket
Bike. They take off and drop you into some remote
scrubland. Your mission is over.

96

You swim into the river, find a way out and climb
up, soaking wet. Add 2 tuck paints, Looking
around, you find that the Silverhound terminal is
directly opposite. You check with your Chrono-
graph and rush towards it just in time to see the bus
take off. You have missed it! You look desperately
around for a craft, but thereis only ene ZipCar in the
craft-park, and it has someone sitting mside. Do you
approach the ZipCar owner (turn to 154), or go back
into the city to look for transport (turn to 243)?

97
You are in Yellow room, Level 2, Reduce oxYcEN
by 1. There is one door up (turn to §1), a left door
down (turn to 196) and a right door down (tum te
146).

98-99
98

You pretend to go in, and the Android rushes off
You turn around and begin to follow it, and notice
three GromPols coming out of the building behind
you. This confirms that the Android has been
turned’ and now has a Vidgraph of you in its
memory. You must destroy it! It heads for a rusty
metal structure of no apparent purpose. Just then
u hear explosions and see a ZipCar with Houlgan
colours flash past. It lires its cannons at the Android
and you. The first shot hits the Android, the second
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 195, If

you are Unhucky, tum to 52

99
You approach the two Androids and ask them

where you can get transport to the nearest oty.
They inform you that only shuttle links are running

now and that the next shuttle is due in seventy-two
gravity hours. They leave you and speed off in their
craft. Deduct 2 Time units. Will you wait for the
next Silverhound (turn & 188), or set off on foot
turn to 283)?

100-101

100
You can see nv way of making the door slide open,
and then you realize that it must be pushed. It is
heavy and made of wood. You slip inside and find

that you are in a hallway with three doors leading

off it. While you debate which one to go through,
the middle door opens and out comes an Android
carrying a jar. Do you take cover (turn to 13) or
attack the Android (turn to 236)?

101
it's a risk worth taking. You kick it open and chew
some cubes. ‘There is no alarm and you can eat your
fill. Add 2 StAmINA points and deduct 2 Trme
units, You then go outside. Turn to 2g1.

402-103

102
While the decay begins at its feet, the Android
replies, ‘Groms know of rescue atternpt, they also
know of “planted” Androids. They do not know
who else is involved. They are monitoring the
rescue fleet ... You ...° The decay eats into
all its speech functions and as you get up the
Android disappears, leaving a pungent odour,
Deduct 2 TIME units and turn to 31-

103
After walking for many gravity hours in the thick
forest, you arrive af a fork in the road. Do you turn
ieft (turn to 268) or right (turn to ga)?
104-105

104 :
You dodge to the left, straight into the path of a
cannon shot, You take no more interest in this
mission.

105
You stand there as the door opens. They come in
and stand side by side fingering their stun guns-
Willi suddenly leaps out with amazing speed and
attacks the one on the right. You kick the stun gun
out of the other’s hand and engage it in unarmed
combat.

GUARD ANDROID

if you win, Willi has disabled the other Guard. Tum
to 7o.

SKILLQ STAMINA 10

106-107

106

You try to move off to search the house. She puts
you into.a snake-pit: snakes are underfoot, on top of
you and winding around your arms and legs, You
try to remember that this is an illusion. Test your Fear
Factor. If you are frightened, reduce your STAMINA
by 1. You scream that you'll play with her. Turn
to 68.

107
The three gang members are tough street-fighters
and you are shattered. Lopsti realizes that the
diner’s craft-park is nota safe place to hang around.
He kicks one of his gang and tells him to put you on
to the back of a Rocket Bike. You get on and wait for

another member of the gang to smash a food-cube
dispenser and steal the contents, before you all roar
off in a stink of rocket fuel. Turn to 354-
108—109

108

The Android tells you that you'll need transport.
it takes you to a used ZipCar centre owned by
Honest’ Luig Six. Most of the cars are rusty heaps,
but Luig Six is not prepared to part with any of
them. He shows you a Grom Vidlaw forbidding the
sale of any transports without a special Grom Ii-
cence. The Android takes him to one side and
threatens him. He comes back with a frightened
smile on his face and is willing to accept a fair price
tor a serviceable ZipCar. You check the fuel levels
and get directions from the Android. You speed
above the city, heading north. Turn to 224.

109

You walk up to what seems to be the front door. You
and it open and as you step into the house you call
out. There is no answer. There are three doors,
Which one do you go through:

Left? lurn to 26
Right? Turn to 120
Centre? ‘Turn to 362

110-111

110

After a while a small Gromulan with an Excel on
either side of him appears and walks along the row
He stops in front of you and holds up a strange
device, It projects a beam and tries to brainscan you.
As a Rogue Tracer you are protected against this.
‘So, we have a Tracer here,” he squeaks. ‘The Excels
grab you, lake you to a room and leave you there. In
the comer is a ComTerm showing pictures of the
President. Do you want to approach the ComTerm
(turn to 316) or stay where you are (turn to 296)?

111i

You reach the shelter just as the bull slams its homs
into the heavy plastic. You look around the shelter:
there are two short spears there, which seem to be
armed with impact neuronsplat. You guess that
there musi be a proper entrance behind one of the
three shelters. You will have to cross to the others to
find out. You pick ap the spears and rush out.
Which shelter do you pick, the left one (turn to 378)
or the right one (turn to 49)?

112-114

112

The door slides open and you walk into a darkened
room. The door slides shut behind you. You are in a
Grom Moebius Time-Trap. Time will have no mean-
ing for you; gravity seconds will seem to take years
to pass. You are doomed and your mission is over.

113
You weave up and down and turn to fight off the
Grom. The cannons do not respond: there is no
phozon auto-shot as on your Oberon craft. Two
final shots slam into you and the Mark Ll! dives out
of control. You are already dead.

114

You are in a tunnel. It is dark and damp. There are
many pipes of various sizes stretching into the
distance. Deduct 2 Time units. As you walk
towards a faint light, you hear a rattle behind
you. You turn around and see two red eyes slowly
coming towards you. They belong to a ‘Service Raf’,
which is inspecting the sub-ducts and making
repairs. You know that these machines are
equipped with blasters to remove any debris or
blockages. Do you decide to let it pass over you
fturn to 28), or would you rather run towards the
end of the tunnel (turn to 289)?
115-117

115
You get up and try to dear your head while you slip
on the gloves.

GIGANTIAN

Tf you win, turn to 16.

SKILL 30 STAMINA 12

116
Test your Tuck. If you are Lucky, turn to 336. If you
are Unlucky, turn to 374.

117

You notice two Guards approaching, so you furn a
corner and head west. You walk along a wide
avenue, Atone crossroads there is a small market.
Groups of people stand around, some natives anc
several Felines from Wistas 4. Tucked into a corner
basement you see a flashing sign: “SLEEP/EAT- An
aTTOW points down. You know that you will soon
need some rest. Do you want to enter the basement
(turn to 228) or carry on with your quest (turn
to 324)?

118
On the way to London, you begin to cross a short
stretch of sea. Suddenty a laser blast hits your craft
and everything, including you, is burned to a
onder.

119

You are pushed into the GromPol craft and made to
stand in front of the Grom commander, who is
sitting down. He watches you very carefully, then
asks who you are tracing. Do you give him a name
‘turn te 312) or refuse to speak (turn to 54)?

120-121

120

The door slides shut behind you. In the middle of
the room is a suit of space armour from the early
twenty-first century. Suddenly it moves, pulls outa
neutronsword and swings at you. You roll to the left
and it hits a metal table, which breaks in half. This is
no illusion. You see an array of neutronswords on
display; you seize one and begin to defend yourself.

WARRIOR SKILL STAMINA 12

Deduct 2 TIME units. If you lose, turn to 201; if you
win, Turn to 340.

121
You find a basement to hide him and you strap ona
signal unit, so that Tracebeam can find him. He
snores while you cover him up with sacks. Back in
the diner all eves, including plasti-pupils, are on
you. They have all realized what your profession is.
Someone asks you if you got him. You turn around
and see a large man wearing a T-shirt with Julio’ on
the front of it. Do you respond and chat with the
man (turn to 232), or ignore him and get on with
your breakfast (turn to 335)?

ee

122124

122
The Grom begins to look cross. His cheeks puff up
and redden, then he vanishes. The room is plunged
into darkness and you sense yourself rotating head
over heels. Then you lose consciousness, Turn
to 249,

123
The Excel walks leisurely towards the palace and
through the gates. There are many Guards around.
One of them notices you and comes towards you.
Do you retire gracefully (tum to 179) or speak to the
Guard (turn to 304}?

124
A low whine begins, followed by beep, beep, beep.
You realize that the alarm has gone off. The girl
appears, Vidcorder in hand, but you are already on
the platform and heading down. The girl is being
followed by a large red balloon with a face on it; she
waves to you as you disappear. Downstairs you
catch sight of an Excel heading for the front door, so
You run in the opposite direction. You sprint
through several rooms and an window. You
forget about the beams as you rush for the outside
wall. Turn to §5.

125-126

125
You leap up on the packing-cases, reach the
window and kick at the plastic yrille covering it. As
you prepare to launch yourself through it, a stun
shot slams intw your back and yuu are paralysed-
You have no hope of finishing your mission.

126

You sit at the computer. Groms are using the plain
L’ language-system, so you call up the file direc-
tory. You ask for a visual display. A message
appears, asking for a pass-code and allowing you
Sve gravity seconds to key in. Then the screen
besins to flash, “Unauthorized User. Beware
Hacker.” A low whine accompanies the flashing.
Through the window you can see the Grom coming
back with the Androids. As a last resort you alm a
kick at the guts of the IPX. The screen goes blank
and another back-up screen lights up; the tell-tale
message disappears. Turn to 91-
127

127
You are correct: add and subtract alternately 3, 9, 27.
81 ~ multiples of 3. The screen shows you 2 menu;
you ask for current news and this gives you
a sub-menu, including an item on the Galactic
President, You choose this section and are asked
what information you want. You key in, “Where is
the President kept?’ The reply comes back, “Not
relevant to Madrid base.’ You look carefully at the
group supplying the information; one thing you
cannot make sense of is a circle with a horizontal line
through it. You know that he is not in Madrid and
you myst continue your search elsewhere. Turn to

169.

Wwe ° 4 (3 u St

128-129

128

Sy keeping still you have stopped its automatic
huntkill functions. It comes up to you, knowing
that its cover has been ‘blown’. Under such cir-
cumstances, it is programmed to de-activate all
witnesses. You manage to press the CodeMatch
Dutton and it responds immediately. It tells you that
the Houlgans have damaged its disguise circuits
and that it can no longer pretend that it is just
2 service Android. Suddenly it seizes up and
falls over and you realize that it is very seriously
damaged. You open up a side panel and Sook for
damaged circuits. There are only two possible paths
to follow, but you must act quickly before self-
destruct sets in. Deduct 2 tTrme units. Do you
choose the left circuit (turn to 233) or the right circuit
‘turn to 375)?

129

The black knight leaps on to the left square in true
chess-piece fashion; you were correct to stay still.
You dodge away and jump off the board; as you
run, the illusion fades and you are out on the street.
You look around; there is no one to be seen. You
dodge into a side-street al the sight of two GromPol
craft that sweep overhead and land in the grounds
of the hacienda. You check the time and realize that
the Silverhound leaves soon. You rush off to catch
it. Turn to 80.
330-152

30
re iga crash to theleft. You twist round and see
Se woman youcameacrossin Roma. She clutches a
Catchman and has already trussed up the rogue
She rashes towards you and releases you
scthouta word. On the way out ofthe building you
pass another rogue enveloped in plasti-net. You
ow her past a big industrial transpart marked
Escargot’ and she takes you to a small bar where
she buys youa caffeine stimulant

have not talked to her before, she introduces
herself as Arana, another Rogue Tracer. She is
working for the Groms, looking for some missing
emuware. She tells you that she has followed some
iuves from Roma and that she intercepted your
ss she was passing the warehouse. She has
rush off. but directs you towards two Grom base
stations: ne to the north (tuen to 356) and one to the
th (turn to 204)

a3
wm are in a chamber that looks as though il was
il four hundred gravity years ago. Itis collapsing
around you: Tange segments of concrete fal from the
roof im random order. Roll one die: this is your
position, Roll the second die: this is where a slab

is If the two numbers are the same, you are
rushed. Repeat this procedure four times. If you
survive, there are blocked exits to the south and
West, and exits east (turn to 353) ar west (turn

132-133

132
Your companion explains everything to the rest of
the gang autside the food bar. You let them know
thal you are a Rogue Tracer working against the
Groms. They seem to despise Groms as much as
rival Houlgan gangs. You all enter the bar, where
they order strange-seunding food. When it arrives
there are no cubes, but a mass of small sea-creatures
immersed in yellow grains. You fear contamimation
and are at first reluctant to eat, but the smell is so
wonderful that you cannot resist. The food turns
out to be even better than your mother’s home-
made food cubes. Add 3 STAMINA points. Turn to

345-

133
The landing is bad. You have broken both of your
legs and you cannot move. The Groms spot you and
come down to pick vou up. You will not recover in
time to complete your mission.

134-135

134

You make your way to the Silverhound terminal.
Before you goin, you see a squad of GromPols and a
sign flashing above them announcing, ‘All services
are cancelled." You back out and catch sight of 2
bank of Vidscreens; they have stopped showing ads
and are transmitting pictures of you. As you head
back to the transport craft you saw earlier, you come
across another in the process of refuelling. It is also
full of crates marked with a circle and horizontal
line. Do you try getting on to this craft (turn to 245),
or will you go back to the other one (turn to 239)?

135

The Android walks towards the building and you
watch carefully as it approaches one of the Guards
at the door. The Guard takes out its stun gun and
looks towards you. Suddenly you remember that
some Androids are equipped with sense-detect and
know when anyone is following them. You dive
into the bushes. A tree beside you explodes and you
see a GromPol craft flying towards you, cannons
firing. Above the clamour and rocket whine a steely
voice orders you to stay where you are. Do you doas
ordered (turn to 30), or take a chance and ron for it
(turn to 244)?
You carry on, but the road becomes very overgrown
and you lose your direction. Just then you see a
Grom standing with his back to you. He has picked
up a small snail and is in the process ol inserting it
into his ear. You notice that his other ear already has
a small shell protruding from it. You decide to take a
risk and ask him for directions to the general area
you are seeking. He cannot hear you (because he's
got snail shells in his cars}, so you tap him on the
shoulder. Suddenly two Guards appear and grab
you. The Grom tums around, greatly agitated, and
tells you that you are under arrest for touching a
Gromulan. He stumbles off, leaving you with the
Androids. Do you put up a fight (turn to 399) or go
quietly (turn to 168)?

EE

137-138

137
You begin to realize the error you made in stealing
the craft. You have blown your cower and your
Rogue Tracer ID is logged in the central [PX com-
puter. You look up and notice three craft taking off
and disappearing into the distance. You assume
that they believe you to have perished in the crash.
You destroy your original ID and redraft a new one
on your Chronograph, hoping that no Vidgraph has
been secretly taken of your face. You walk down a
slope and come to a track running north to south.
Will you go north (turn to 363) or south (turn to 256)?

138
You want to ask the fugitives a few questions, but
they speak a dialect that your Transinterpreter can-
not understand. You stash them for later collection
and go downstairs. Deduct 2 TIME units and turn

to 295.
139-140

139

You are in a chamber with a blocked exit east, but
other exits south (turn toe 331) or west (turn to 62)-
‘There is also an exit north, which slopes down and
you can see that water has flooded it. Occasionally,
sirange-fanged fish break the surface and snap
ferociously at one another. If you wish to go this
way, turn to 384.

140
You will have to leap from building to building. Roll
two dice and add up the total: this is the first
distance to leap. Roll one die and add the result to
your STAMINA score: this is your first jump. If your
jump is equal to or greater than the distance, then
you have successfully jumped to the next building.
Repeat this three times. If at any time the distance is
greater than the jump, you have fallen to your
death. If you succeed, deduct 2 STAMINA pomts.
You have got to the fourth building and found
access down to the street. Turn to 79.

——

You let him win and take care not to give yourself
away by your style of fighting. He accepts you into
the group. He is proud of the fact that he has beaten
everyone in the gang. He slaps you on the back and
tells you that he will test you out ona plum job: ‘The
hacienda — lots of rich pickings there.” He tells you
that it is the residence of a highly placed Grom. It
appears that although Earth is a haven from
Tracebeam, it is difficult to make ends meet without
leaving the planet. You are given some food cubes.
Add 1 STAMINA point. After several gravity hours,
& guide and adviser takes you along the sewers to
the hacienda. Turn to 273.

as Ayes 4, -
foo

142~144

qe
You walk through a maze of narrow streets until

you come to a market. Most people are selling food
cubes and among the customers are Felines from
Wistas 4. You feel the CodeMatch on your Chrono-
graph activate as an Android passes you, carrying a
parcel. You follow carefully. You know that you are
running out of time. Deduct 2 Tims units. Do you
approach the Android (turn to 198), ordo you prefer
not to trust it and carry on alone (turn to 221)?

143

You are right to be suspicious. The craft is a dis-
guised Bandit ZipCar out for plunder. Your car is no
great speedster, but the cannons are loaded. Fight
as in ordinary combat, but do not reduce vour actual
STAMINA, since it is the craft which takes damage.
Use 2 sPEcIAL Encounter Box on the Adventure
Sheet.

BANDIT ZIPCAR SKILL F STAMINA 8

if you lose, you have crashed, but you survive and
run off into a nearby trench which seems to head
back to the city (turn to 3). If you win, turn to 302,

144
You are in White room, Level 3. Reduce oxYGEN by
t unit. There is one door leading up (turn to 181), a
door on the left leading down (turn to 352) and a
door on the right leading down (turn to 284).
145-146

145

You stand around and watch the bus take off. The
waiting bores you, and you find a door marked
‘Private’. It is open and you go in to find an empty
office with a notice lying on the floor, which tells
you that all Rocket-a-Hire services have been can-
celled due to lack of demand. You look through a
small window at the Sweepertron, which ts heading
towards you. Just then two GromPol Androids
appear and block its path. Suddenly steam rises
from its face and it begins to melt in self-destruct
mode. You realize that the sweepertron wes one of
your contacts! Turn to 99.

146
You are in Violet room, Level 3. Reduce oxycen by
1 unil, There is one door leading up (turn to 97) and
another leading down (turn to 377).

a  «

147

You reahze that credits might be a good way to get
their help. As you reach for your cards, one of the
smallest of them rushes past vou and grabs the
whole pack out of your hands. You pull out your
Catchman and the others scatter in all directions.
You aim for the thief. Throw a die: if you throw 3 or
under, your gun has jammed (turn to 231); if you
throw 4 or above, you have ensnared him (turn
& 345).

You have heard alarm sirens in the distance and
now you arrive at a thick metal door. There is no
way through. Fifty mefres behind you, another
door has shut. You feel the air being drained from
the tunnel. Your mission has failed.
ae

149-150

149
The conveyor moves at a good pace and you notice

the rough-hewn tunnel change to a metal-clad one.

You guess that you are close to the city centre when
you see a light ahead. There is 2 huge machine
attended by several Androids. You get off and walk
carefully along the tunnel, but there are no Guards
here. The Androids are ‘dedicated’ and blind to
anything but their own function. Deduct 2 TIME
units. There are two ladders heading straight up.
Do you take the left one (turn to 344) or the right one
(turn to 329)?

150

You check the motor and fuel levels, close the hood
and open the plexi-glass cockpit cover. You see that
the ZipCar is full of hot, bubbling mud. As you peer
closer four hands reach out of the mud towards you:
at the end of each finger is a bloody claw. Test your
Fear Factor, If you are frightened, reduce your
STAMINA by 1 point. Deduct 2 Time units and turn
to 261.

151-152

151
Arana gives you good directions. The road is broad
and clear and there seem to be more Groms walking
around, although they are always accompanied by
Guards, who walk particularly slowly, to let their
short-legged masters keep up with them. The
Roxyrama is an‘oid Vid Palace set up in the days

before Illus-o-Vision 70, when 3-D entertainment

had to take place in special buildings. It looks shut
when you get there. You pull at a metal grille and
step inside. Deduct 2 TIME units. Do you go along
the corridor (turn to 295) or up the staircase (turn to
362)?

152
the Android wanders off out of the terminal. You
give it a few minutes and then go to the window.
You look out carefully. It is speaking to two Grom-
Pol Androids and it is obvious that it has been
‘turned’. Luckily the planted Androids do nat know
what you look like. The ‘turned’ Android moves off
and fingers its stun gun as it passes a group of
Houlgans who are trying to break in toa food-cube
dispenser. Do you follow the Android (turn to 238)

or approach the Houlgans (turn to 29)?
153-154

153
She moves very fast and seems to know instinctive-

ly that you are following her. Roma is busier than
Madrid, with a few mure natives visible. You follow
at speed, but are suddenly halted by a solid arm. A
GromPol wants to check your ID, so you have to
stop to show it. Tes! your Luck. If you are Lucky, you
manage to catch up with her (turn to 298). If you are
Unlucky, you have lost her (turn to 221).

4!

154

The owner is a rough-looking type. You look in and
see that the ZipCar has several extra cannons fitted.
You ask him if he is heading north and if he is
willing to give you a lift. He looks you up and down
and agrees. You get into the back and he takes off.
He stays at cruising speed and ahead you can see
the Silverhound in the distance. He asks you your
business, Do you tell the truth (turn to 247) or tell
him that you area trader (turn to 86)?

ea.

——

155-156

155
You are wise not to trust the Groms. Your missile
hits the Dragon and causes a mega-explosion. The
creature was a missile with an Illus--Scope on
board_ The rescue craft speeds off to the mother ship
and the fleet. Turn to 400.

156
A cannon shot explodes close to you. You weave
and dodge into a half-demolished building across
the street. The Gromulan craft fires its cannons
again and you feel the floor give way, just before
you black out. Turn to 313.

157-158

1§7

You wake up as you are thrown from your seat. An
alarm sounds and, looking through the windows,
you can see four Bandit craft attacking the bus. The
pilot appeals for help and the two Androids rush to
zun positions. You follow and grab a cannon that
appears on a pivot. You aim carefully and fire. Fight
2s in normal combat, but use a SPECIAL Encounter
Box.on your Adventure Sheet, and de not reduce your
actual STAMINA score,

SKILL STAMINA
First BANDIT 9 8
Second BANDIT 9 LO

U you lose, turn to 269. If you win, turn to 227.

158

You are in the laser-welding room. There are six
chambers, full of Androids, and lasers are firing at
them in random order from across the room. You
cannot go back, so vou have to go past the six
chambers to the exit. Throw one die for each
chamber in sequence. If at any time the number on
the die is the same as the number of the chamber
you are passing, then you have been hit, and your
nussion is over. If you survive, turn to 348.
— OO rttts—“_OOSSS

159-160

159

A stop is announced for breakfast. The Silverhound
sets down in a craft-park by a small diner. This is no
galactic service-station; a sign proudly procaims:
Julio's: under original Farthling management - You
follow the others inside. There is a wide selection of
food cubes and drink tubes for sale. While you tugat
a tube, you turn around and come face to face with
Kinta Lopsti, an escaped prisoner whom you ong
nally arrested. He recognizes you and rushes out of
the door. Do you give chase (turn to 299) or keep 2
low profile and let him go (turn to 17)?

160
Deduct 2 11M units. The door slides open. You see
an Android sitting at a ComTerm. It turns around
and raises a stun gun towards you. You strike
immediately and kick the gun out of its dutch.

TECHNICAL

OPERATOR STAMINAS

sx1i16

If you win, turn to 347.

161-163

261
The people thank you for your help. You ask the girl
behind the bar if you can borrow the Mark I ZipCar.
She agrees and asks you to leave it in the bus
terminal to be picked up by a relative. She gives you
the settings and some food cubes. Add 1 STAMINA
point. Turn to 280.

162

They follow you as you splash along. After a while
you turn around and notice that they have stopped
and are staring at something behind you. You look
in the same direction and see the flashing lights and
laser blasts of a Grom Rodent Killer. It moves along
the tunnel blasting at any living thing. You run back
and find that the others have disappeared. You take
the right fork. Turn to 73-

163

You sit at the controls. The craft rises and you put
your foot down. The speed of acceleration pushes
you into the soft seat. As the ship gains height you
notice a small flashing light and realize that it had
needed to take on fuel! You have forgotten that
phozon is not available on Earth and they still rely
on things like fuel gauges. The craft suddenly loses
power and drops. You push the ejectormatic, know-
ing that your luck must bein for one of these to work
efficiently. Test your Luck. if you are Unlucky, turn to
191. If you are Lucky, turn to 222.
164-165

1
As you move towards Get bushes, you feel the slap
of a stun shot on your chest. You are only winded,
but you are dealing with a high-quality, state-of-the
art Excel Android, You reel backwards and it is
upon you. It has moved two hundred metres in =
few gravity seconds. Turn to 366.

165
Orvium orders the body to be thrown out. He tells
you that you are brave, but that he suspects you are
from the galactic centre, You tell him that you want
the Grom firmware and Galaxy One is willing to pay
a high price. He wants to know how high and
stresses that it is up to date and unprotected. You
ask to see it and he gives you thirty gravity seconds
in front of it. They take you to an old IPX. You flip
through the menus until you get to information
about the President. With several seconds left, you
have a choice of two buttons for his location. Do you
ptess button A (turn to 38) or button B {turn to 297)?

166
You have opened the correct door. Add 2 Luck
points. It opens into daylight outside an old high
wall. You cannot believe that the Groms have let
you go — and then you look to either side of you.
Two Excels in ritual duelling armour stand with
neutronswords raised above their heads, The
beams swish downwards. You drop flat on to the
ground. When you look up, you see that one of the
Excels has a deep gash through its chest-piece and,
while you watch, it falls over in a cloud of acidic
self-destruct. The other Excel has lost its right arm.
They have missed you and hit each other! The

remaining Android comes at you-
ONE-ARMED
EXCEL SKILL 4 STAMINA 4

If you lose, you have no excuses. If you win, turn

to 328.
167-168

167

The building is spacious and luxurious. There is no
ene around and you carefully slip into the court-
werd. Just then a gust of wind blows up some dust

nd reveals beams criss-crossing the open space in
random order. You carefully make your way, De-
duct 2 +tme units. Throw one die: this is where the
seam is, Throw a second die: thisis where you move
to. If the two throws match, you have hit a beam
turn to §5). Repeat this prxedure three more
times. If you succeed without breaking a beam, you
nave reached the door (turn to 100).

168

You are marched off to a nearby Grom craft and
thrown into a small dark cell. After several gravity
nours you feel the craft take off. Soon you are taken
mito a building marked ‘Bastille’ and lined up in a
oxnidor with a row of other criminals. Androids
datter up and down looking busy. In the far corner
there is a door marked ‘Communications — Private’,
Tou watch carefully when a Grom comes out, and
you see a ComTerm inside. Do you risk poing in
turn to 20), or will you stay where you are (turn to
z10)?

169-171

169

You make your way back downstairs. The sound of
blasters and stun guns has siopped. The elevator
door opens and there is Gus, practically torn apart.
In front of Gus lie bits of four Guards, dnipping fluid
over the shiny floor, You help Gus out of the build-
ing, but the poor Android can hardly stand. It
senses other Guards arriving and tells you to get off
to the Silverhound terminal, since you have very
little time te catch the bus for Roma. Gus prepares to
hold the Guards off te give you a chance to escape.
You run off towards the terminal. Deduct 2 TIME
units. Turn to 80,

170

You walk up to the ZipCar. It really is an anfique: a
Zip Fordos, single rocket, manual drive. It is easy
for a trained Rogue Tracer to break into, but as you
finger the handle a steely voice screams al you.
‘You, you're a dead man" The voice seems to come
from inside the hotel. Do you run (turn to 77) or turn
around with your hands up and enter the hotel
(turn to 197)?

272
Lopsti notices that you are unattended and slaps
your guard across the face. Turn to 95.

172~174

172
The black knight leaps on top of you. You have
moved into its path. You feel dizzy and fall down.
The illusion fades and you are surrounded by three
Exeels. They do not mess around: this is the end of

173
The blaster, set at maximum, punches a hole
through the Guard, which collapses and _ self-
destructs. Before you can reset, the Excel is upon
you.
EXCEL

If you win, turn to 34-

SKILL 12 STAMINA 16

174

They put their heads together. When they come
back, the leader tells you that they will take you to
their hideout. They lead off at a fast pace and turn
into a maze of small alleyways which even your
trained mind cannot keep track of. Suddenly one of
the gang whistles and they all take off in various
directions. You catch sight of three of them, but
which one do you chase:

The one ahead in the alley? Turn to 46
The one to the leftin a doorway? Turn to271
Theonetotherightinadoorway? = Turn to393
175-176

175
You go, with them leading the way out. Delicately
you pull out your Catchman, turn and fire at the first
three gang members. Roll one die: if you throw 3 or
under, the gun has jammed (turn to 248); if you
throw 4 or over, the Catchman works (turn to 84).

176

He leads you out of the Roxyrama. He takes giant
strides and you try to keep up with him. The road is
deserted, overgrown and full of ruins. At one cross-
roads he stops, pulls out a blaster and carefully
edges round the comer. Just then a Grom task-force
rockets in; they retro down from roofs and out of
windows. Your companion starts firing and rushes
at a group: he knocks down three with one blow. A
Grom craft is directing operations from high above.
Do you join in the fight (turn to 210) or try to slip
away (turn to 305)?

Cs

~ =-_.

177-179

You cannot believe your eves. You have come
across an old Vidprint from the time of the Groms’
first arrival on Earth, detailing all their civic works,
and inchding various plans. You quickly glance
through the document on the shop's viewer. The
Grom main administrative base is built under the
Ents Complex at the Plaza de Toros. Senior Groms
live in large haciendas; the nearest is quite close to
where you are. Add 2 tuck points. Do you head for
the Plaza de Toros (turn to 390) or the hacienda {turn
to 246)?

178
The ZipCar comes down fast and plunges deep into
a salt lake. The ejectormatic does not work. You've
had it.

179
You make your way towards the Silverhound ter-
minal. A few natives wander around, carrying
heavy cases. In the craft-park there are two buses,
one marked noma and the other being repaired by
a team of Mechnoids, You see a sign marked
Services’ and head towards it. Turn to 235.
>
OOP Aes
3

/

Palas

“%

»

Ses s-u3
;

ie
Lead 4 ~
+

4

"ast as act gy
suey e

150-151

1890
You are enveloped in a prehistoric forest, full of
strange creatures. The ground is a swamp with
snake-like creatures slithering through it. All the
exits are hidden from you. This is no mere iusiem
but 2 full-scale Grom reproduction. You make no
headway on your speedboard, so you abandon it
and start hacking through the undergrowth with
the neutronsword. It is impossible to tell the best
way to go. Will you choose;

Heading A? Turn to 320
Heading B? Turn to 220
Heading C? Turn to 359

181
You are in Blue room, Level 2. Reduce oxyGEn by 1
unit. There is one door leading up (turn to 51), one
door on the left leading down (turn to 215) and one
coor on the right leading down (turn to 144).
182-183

182

When you regain consciousness, you are facing the
Grom. The craft is speeding along. The Grom smiles
and expresses his apologies. He has checked your
ID with base station and it matches information
about known Rogue Tracers. He asks you if you
play chess and you agree to 4 game. Immediately a
beautiful set appears suspended in mid-air. He tells
you that they will be making a stop first, but will get
you back to the bus as soon as possible. You find
him to be very intelligent and galaxy-wise. He wins
the game easily.

The craft settles in a GromPol station. You stay in
the craft and watch the Grom, who is talking to two
Guards outside and pointing towards you. In front
of you is a standard I PX computer. Do you trust the
Grom, sit back and relax (turn to 270), take the
opportunity of getting information from the contr
puter (turn to 126), or steal the GromPol craft and fly
away (turn to 163)?

183

They lead you to the building by various back-
streets. They are cautious, because this is not their
territory. They place scouts along the route and
signals are passed along the line. They lead you to
the service entrance of the hacienda, shake hands
and retreat in orderly fashion. You check your
Chronograph and have a good look at the building.
Turn to 167.

184-185

184

Your Chronograph shows that you have twenty-
five seconds before your pursuers begin the chase,
You realize that you don't know the country and
that Rocket Bikes have a very limited range. You
look around you: to the left are smooth brown
mountains and to the right is a forested valley.
Deduct 2 TIME units. Do you head left (turn to 294)
of right (turn to 391)?

185

You reach the door but cannot open it: there is no
handle, grip or button. You turn around. The
ground trembles and the bull is almost upon you.
You decide to dodge left, but you leave it very late.
Test your Luck. Lf you are Lucky, you getaway witha
grazed side, Reduce your sr AMINA by 1 point and
turn to 211. If you are Unlucky, farewell, brave

186-187

186

You tell Orvium that you'll be back in two gravity
hours. As you leave, however, you come face to face
with Brak 9 and two grubby Excel Androids. Brak,
an old pirate now in semi-retirement, recognizes
you and sets the Excels to hold you while he calls
Orvium over and tells him of your Rogue Tracer
status. Orvium punches you and you collapse. Turn
to 333.

187
After half a gravity hour you begin to give up hope.
But then there is a crash to the left. You twist round
and see an Android, stun gun in hand, standing
over your guard. It rushes over and releases you
without a word, and you follow it into the street.
Outside the building stands a large industrial trans-
port craft marked ‘Escargot’. When the Android
thinks that you are safe, it stops, points to a door-
way and tells you to go in. It will return soon with
important information about the President. Do you
go into the building (hun fo 300) or not (turn to 98)?

188
You are stuck, with no transport. You have missed
the busin all senses of the phrase. You have failed in
your nussion,

189
You are in Indigo room, Level 4 Reduce oxyGen by
i unit. There is one door leading up. Turn to 215.

190
You are right to take no notice of the screen. An
Excel is watching you from a distant corner of the
garden. The Grom returns and announces that his
Android will give you a lift to Madrid in his launch,
Tum to 382.

191
The ejectormatic does not function and ye smash
the craft into the ground,
192-193

192

There are bars that stick out, but each one is further
than you can reach. You will have to leap and catch
each bar. Roll three dice: the total is the first distance
to leap. Roll one die and add the number to your
STAMINA Score: this is your first lesp- If your leap is
equal to or greater than the distance, then you have
successfully jumped. If not, you have fallen down
the shaft to your death. Repeat this procedure three
more times. If you reach the top, reduce your
STAMINA by 1 point and turn to 209.

193

You decide to stay with Willi, since you reckon that
its knowledge of the building is greater than yours

You both walk for a gravity hour; the passage re-
mains dark, damp and rather smelly. Willis limp
gets worse and soon its light begins to fade. Then
the light goes out and Willi collapses in a heap. You
smell the pungent odour of self-destruct, but can
see nothing. You tum back. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, you have found your way back to the ladder
(turn to 25}. If you are Unlucky, you are doomed to
wander around until you also drop down dead.

194
You go through the door marked exrr. Alarm lights
are flashing and you hear the door lock itself behind
you. A screen to the left prints a message:

LIFE FORM ACCESS. EXPEL OXYGEN FROM ALL
AREAS IN 20 UNITS.

Mark the 20 units in the oxyGeNn box on your
Adventure Sheet and make deductions as instructed.
i the units reach zero, you can no longer breathe
2nd your mission is over. Turn to 51.

195
The explosion shatters the ground and you fall into
2 chamber. You get up, slightly bruised, and look
around. The only exitis a tunnel with water rushing
through it. There is a faint light from small airshafts.
As you wade upstream, the tunnel divides. Do you
go left (turn to 372) or right (turn to 202)?

196

You are in Green room, Level 3. Deduct 1 oxyGEn
unit. There is a door leading up (turn to 97), a door
to the left leading down (turn to 272) and a door to
the right leading down (turn to 392).
“

197-198

197
inside the Alcazar, you see a couple of men, a girl
behind the bar and an Excel Android, Excels, with
their supreme fighting ability and their strength, are
the most dangerous of all the Grom Androids. This
one is wearing a funny hat. It has placed its stun gun
low on its ‘hip’ and is facing you with its arm slightly
raised. You notice that the stun gun is set at maxi-
mum killing power. ‘Draw,’ its speech circuits
rumble. Do you pull out your Catchman (tum to
277) or try to talk to it (turn to 50)?

- 198
You catch up and press CodeMatch. The Android
does not respond, but walks on. You follow. It stops
at a service bay and plugs in some lubricant. You
stand near and it begins to talk without looking at
you. It tells you that it is suspected and that you will
have to act quickly to get any information. It tells
you of two options. There is a Grom sub-station
near by that is sure to have records; or you could
travel to the salt-mines where the President was
brought down, to see if you can discover any evi-
dence there. Will you go to the sub-station (turn to
257) or the salt-mines (turn to 108}?

199-200

199
You must look after yourself. You do not know
when you will next get the chance to eat. Reduce

your STAMINA by 1 point. Tum to 39.

You get to the Plaza de Toros and stand by a high
wall. Willi goes off to check a side door into the Ents
Complex. Suddenly you feel a stabbing pain in your
left shoulder (lose 1 STAMINA point), You twist
round, pulling out your Catchman and dropping to
the ground. In front of you stands Hort Lam, a
former Rogue Tracer and now a fugitive from jus-
tice. You fire your Catchman, but your aim is not
true and the plasti-net envelops his stun gun. He is
upon you before you can fire again. As you struggie.
you can see Willi in the distance holding up 2
manhole and waving. Do you fight (turn to 341) or
run away (turn to 13)?

201-202

201

When your eyes can focus, you find yourself sitting
@t a table facing a small, middle-aged Grom. He
greets you as ‘one of the famous Rogue Tracers’,
and returns your 1D to you. He admits that he was
Sored and that he conjured up the ‘entertainment
on the spur of the moment. He then asks you what
you want. You tell him that you are heading for
Madrid. He smiles and tells you that he has a launch
on the river, if you are willing to play for it. A chess
Set appears. “Of course,’ he adds, ‘if you lose, you
aie.” Behind you stands an Excel and you have no
real choice whether or not to play. Use your sKILL
sore and substitute CUNNING for your STAMINA
score. Play the game as in normal combat, but use a
SPECIAL Encounter Box of the Adventure Sheet and
do not reduce your actual $1 4 MINA score,

GROM

it you win, you are taken to his launch (turn to 382).
If you lose, the Excel hits you (turn to 40).

SKILL 10 CUNNING 16

202
You stagger along for a while until you see a light
ahead. You find another collapsed roof, but it is very
high. There is a thick metal grille blocking the rest of
the tunnel. Do you try to leap up tothe hole (turn to
229), or will you go back and take the left-hand fork
(turn to 372)?
203-205

203
A good idea. You will need all your energy when
you are on the planet. Add 1 stamina point. Tum

lo 39.

204
You walk south along a wide avenue which leads to

a bridge over a dusty expanse that must have once
heen a river. You are tired, hungry and thirsty. You
notice some people entering a bar across the road,
called ’Le Spot’. Do you go in and fortify yoursell
{turn to 14) or carry on (turn to 136)?

205
You approach the Excel cautiously. You know that
Groms always build disabling points in all thei
Androids, since they fear their creations turning
against them. You try to find the weak spot. Throw
two dice: if you throw double 6, you have found it
(turn to 161); otherwise, turn to 277.

7)

You know the power of the Excel Androids; they
have high-quality vision, speed, power and intelli-
gence. You are wise to put up no resistance. It
covers the two hundred metres in a few seconds,
Turn to 366.

207

You are in the alley. There are paths in all four
directions but you do not know which way to head.
You decide to climb to the top of the nearest build-
mg to have a look around. You climb a rickety
wooden staircase to the top of the roof, The building
is gutted on the inside. From up here you can see the
way back to the open avenues, but when you get
back to the staircase you find that it has collapsed.
You suspect the Houlgans. The distance between
Suildings is not great and you think that you could
mump to the next building. Turn to 140.
Weer GS

fey

208

208

The Chronograph wakes you up just as the trans-
port is landing. You get up and stroll through an
open hatch. A robot ignores you as it unloads the
crates. You look around, but see nothing except a
dieak wasteland. The only feature is a tunnel en-
trance into which the crates are being conveyed.
there is a sign above the entrance: a circle with a
horizontal line through it. You walk into the tunnel
and to your left you see an old poster stuck on a
onick wall. Add 4 t UcK points.

Study the poster carefully and use any clues you
have acquired in your travels. You are at the south-
érrunost point of the tunnel system. Keep this page
marked, since you will have to refer back to work
out your relative position.

You walk into the tunnel until you come to a small
chamber stacked with crates. The tunnel continues
in a north-westerly direction. Beside the crates you
see a sophisticated speedboard with several attach-
ments, including an old-fashioned neutronsword.
Do you jump on and take it (turn to 274) orapproach
carefully to see if anyone is around (turn to 323)?

209-211

209
Eventually you reach the top. You stand on a small
platform and glare al a heavy metal grille. There ix
no way of forcing it. You look around carefully and
discover a crack in the wall opposite the grille. You
follow the crack all the way round, until you come to
a metal ring hidden by the dust, A door opens when
you twist the ring, and you step out, exhausted, and
look around. The door shuts behind you with a soft
clunk. Turn to 342.

210
You leap forward and he hands you one of his
blasters. You follow him through ranks of
Androids, which seem to be no match for him, but
just then the Grom craft drops a catch-all plasti-net,
which envelops everybody in a sticky, smelly mess.
You are caught and will be held for many days. You
cannot succeed in your mission.

213
You set the craft on the route to Madrid. Do you
proceed with caution, keeping visuals from horizon
to horizon (turn to 321), or will you get some sleep
while the craft is on auto-pilot (turn 10.240)?

212-215

Turn to 23.

233
As you dash across the road, you feel a stun shot
pass over vour shoulder. Suddenly a manhole
opens in the middle of the road and someone fires
sack at the Android. He calls you over and you dive
into the tunnel. He shuts it and seals it with a shot
from his stun gun. You follow him through a waste
system. He eventually opens a large metal door
which leads off to a series of rooms full of men and
women who are very farniliar to you from ‘wanted’
Vids. This is a real rogues’ gallery. Turn to 4.

214
You hope to confuse itand slow it down. The beer is

obviously having a strange effect on its workings. It
stops whirring and tells you thatits horse, a creature
which you know is extinct, is outside. You look out
and there is a horse! You realize that it also has a
built-in Ilus-o-Scope. Then the Android drops its
gun and attacks you.

EXCEL COWBOY
if you win, turn to 161.

SKILL 10 STAMINA 12

215
You are in Orange room, Level 5. Reduce ox¥GEN
by 1 unit. There is a door leading up (turn to 281), a
door leading down to the left (turn to 189) and a
door leading down to the right (furn to 397).
216-218

216
You beat him easily, but everyone recognizes the
Rogue Tracer style of fighting and a mass of them
jump on you. They take you away and get nd of
you. Needless to say, your mission is over.

217
Deduct 2 TIME units. The alarm siren wakes you up
and, startled, you see a message coming through on
your screen:

NO UNAUTHORIZED CROSS-CHANNEL TRAFFIC.
DANGER: RADIOACTIVE AREA.

Do you take the risk (turn to 118) or turn back for
Paris (turn to 78)?

218

You are taken to see the Grom in charge. He is small
and fat, and sits with his back to you, playing chess
with his IPX. As he turns around his image
changes; he seems taller, stronger and better-
looking. You know that it’s just an illusion. He tells
you that they are after Orvium and that if you can
trace him, you will be well rewarded. You agree and
are escorted to the other side of the roadblock. The
road to Gino's takes you through a bleak urbar
landscape. Turn to 370-

219-220

219

Back on the bus the others stare at you. The Silver-
hound takes off and hurtles along, a hundred
metres above the old Earth highway. As the sun
begins to rise you notice the landscape. ‘he Grom
zhead is watching an episode from the latest Galac-
Se Ents ‘soap’ on his private Vidscreen. The hard-
sell commercials continue on the screen in front of
you. Deduct 2 r:m# units. Turn to 159.

220

You aut your way through the undergrowth, Once,
when you happen to look up, you see a metal ladder
going straight up. You climb this and find yourself
im a tunnel going north-west. As you walk along,
random and irregular parts of the floor open up and
shut. From the flames and heat below you realize
that you'll have to watch your step. Throw one die:
this is the section that has opened. Throw a second
de: this is where you are standing. If the first
number is the same as the second, you have fallen
mto the fiery furnace. Repeat this procedure three
more times. If you survive, turn to 278.
ae

221-222

224

You wander around the streets, but see nothing to
help you in your task. Eventually, you see a Grom,
who is accompanied by two Guards. You follow ata
distance; they are conducting some kind of survey.
Reckoning that the Grom must lead you to a Com-
Term some time, you stay on their trail. They reach
huge steel-mesh gate, open it up, go through and
disappear into the deserted side-streets. Deduct 2
TIME units. Do you want to go over the gate and
follow them (turn to 66), or will you return to the bus
terminal (turn to 75)?

222

The ejectormatic works and you get shot out of the
craft and retro-ed down by the rockets on the back of
your seat. You land with a bump. Test your Luck, i
you are Lucky, turn to 330; if you are Unlucky, turn
to 133.

VQ Ai ls 4

223-226

223

You obey Willi instinctively and hide behind the
Comtlerm. Willi greets the Guards in a friendly
manner, but they are suspicious. When they go for
their stun guns, Willi moves at tremendous speed,
touches the left one on a spot on its side, and the
other at the back of its neck. They both de-activate
with a hiss. Willi tells you that de-activation will
bring the Grom back very quickly and suggests a
rapid exit. Turn to 7.

224

Yousee the vast salt lakes ahead. Suddenly you pick
upa message. You are ordered to land immediately.
You check visuals and see a GromPol craft; it is not
2s sleek as usual, but looks ike a Mark IV with bits
stuck on to it, Do you decide to land (turn to 367) or
fight (turn to 143)?

225
Turn to 23.

226
You are tired. battered and now robbed of all your
possessions. [he Lurgan has flown off, leaving you
trussed up. You cannot escape in time to salvage
your mission. You have failed.
227-228

227

The remaining Bandits give up and speed off. You
look around you: the bus is a mess, both the
Androids are self-destructing. You move to the
pilot’s cabin and find the control on ‘aulo’ and 2
strong whiff of acid on wires. The pilot Android has
suffered the same fate. The bus lurches and you
jump into the pilot's seat. Auto-control is intermit-
tent. The screen flashes ‘Unauthorized User’ in
bright red letters. You ignore this, while struggling
to bring the bus under control. The auto-pilot will
not stay on, so you resort to the old saying, ‘Ifall else
fails, kick it!’ You aim a good kick at the panel,
hoping your luck is in. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 308; if you are Unlucky, turn to 252.

228

You feed your credit at the door and press two
gravity hours. The door slides open and a flashing
light directs you to ‘eats’. Another credit is used to
order cube taste 2x 017, one of your favourites and
quite a surprise to find on Earth. You climb into your
unit, eat the cube and wash it down with some
Mangola. You shut the unit and a gas hisses in to
send you to sleep for the paid-azp time. Deduct 2
TIM units. Add 6 STAMINA points. You wake up
fecling refreshed, get out and carry on along the
road. Turn to 83.

229-230

229

Throw three dice and add up the total: this is the
stance up. Throw one die and add the number to
your STAMINA score: this is your jump. If your
samp is equal to or greater than the distance, you
have been successful (turn to 32). If you fail, deduct
> from your STAMINA score and try again. If you
cannot get up there, you decide to take the other
branch (turn to 372).

230
You walk outside and stare into the distance. There
ts nothing to be seen. You realize that your only
chance of getting food is the dispenser. As you turn
around, a solid metal door slams shut and an elec-
tronic voice thanks you for vour custom and tells
you to have a nice day! Deduct 1 stamina point.
Deduct 2 TIME units and turn to 291.

231-232

231
The kid is very fast, but no match for you. You grab
hold of him just as he is about to disappear into a
windowless building. You turn him around and he
lets go of your credit cards, Deduct 1 sTAMINA
point and turn ty 345.

232

“Criminals and Groms, that’s all we have on Earth
these days. Always glad ty see a Rogue Tracer.’ The
man is the owner of the diner and proclaims himself
‘the last of the native independents’. He loves to talk
and eventually gets on to the subject of Grams: “We
are second-class citizens on our own planet,
although most natives have left for Alphacent: no
real jobs here, you sew.’ Te tells you of the Houl-
wans, whom he describes as ‘good boys really’. His
son is a member of a gang in Madrid; heis called Jose
go. Add 1 Luck point. Eventually the bus signal
take-off and vou rush to board it. As you settle, you
realize that you haven't eaten anything. The Grom
in front of you is being served a Galterian omelette
by his Android. Reduce your STAMINA by 2 point
and turn to 22.

233-234

233

You pick the correct circuit. While you are replacing
several leads, you find two wires leading to self-
destruct, and you realize that this Android is a
walking bomb. The Android recovers and tells you
that it will be missed; speed is essential. It will take
you to the nearest Grom house with a ComTerm
and hold off any attack for as long as necessary,
Turn to $3.

234
You see a road ahead and follow it until a large,
flashing star symbol appears. You have no retro fuel
so you set down and skid along the road. The Mark
il spins to a halt a few metres from a fuel pump.
Add 2 1.Uck points. A stony-faced Android comes
out and asks if you want to ‘fill her up’. Turn to 279.

NRA Sha, f Sf
=

¥

235-236
tou find that there is only one route that links the

Rocke/ Comp an y northern sector. Most services have been cancelled

due to lack of demand and there are considerable
selays between stops. While you are working out
ihe times, an Android stands next to you and you
teel the CodeMatch pulse on your Chronograph.
Veduct 2 Tiste units. Do you signal back (turn to
359) or decide to follow it first {turn to 152)?

236
the Android drops the jar and it smashes. You're
mpressed by the use of real glass.

SLTLER
ANDROID SKILL 6 STAMINA 6

I you win, the butler self-destructs, leaving a sticky
petch on the floor. Turn to 364.

LONDON C660:1200 *4ADRID ICN
Fans 0389 12 Atwa 1/50- 2750
4 8 o8iD 1410 PAA ic. ven
VWADGD 6939 1532 LONDON 1490-2000

237-238

237
The Grom has top4evel security-rating. You ask
where the Galactic President is being kept. You get

O867 RIBS 20KK 160A S248

The first three sets you know as standard Earth
codes for the London area. Ihe last two sets you
note down, or note dawn again in confirmation, &
you already have one of them. You rush outside
siraight into a GromPol Android escorting the real
PowerTech. Before it can pull out a stun gun, you
are on te it.

GROMPOL ESCORT

If you win, turn to 309.

SKILLG STAMINAS

238
The Android walks at a standard pace in a westerly
direction. Most of the tall buildings are cumbling
and, as you walk along, you nolice that some side
streets are still inhabited by natives. The Android
reaches an area full of bushes and trees from which

rises a very old and grand building in an excellent
state of repair. Do you attack the Android (turn to
63) or carry on following it (turn to 135)?

239-243

239

The transport is of standard Galactic General Rocket
Motors design and you are skilled in stowing away
on these. The robo-loader ignores you as you slip
between the plasti-crates and raise the lid of the
‘Emergency Humanoid Operators Cab’. You slipin,
check the rations and find a good selection. You set
your alarm and fall asleep. Add 6sT4mINA points
and turn to 208,

240

When you tip back the seat a pack falls open and you
see that it is full of Lurgan speciality food cubes,
some of them inside the “best before’ date — a rare
treat! Add 2 STAMINA points and turn to 41.

241
You catch on to the edge of a tallish building and
hold on until the fuel in the retro runs out. You
unstrap the rocket and let it drop. The Androids
delow begin to fire at you with their blasters, so you
get on to the roof and decide to leap over to the next
duilding. Roll two dice and add up the result: this is
the distance to jump. Roll one die and add the
number to your sTA MINA score: this is your jump.
if the jump is equal to or greater than the distance,
then you have jumped successfully and can make
your way down the stairs to the neighbouring street
(turn to 59). If you fail, you fall.
242-245

242

You approach the screen. It is showing a Grom
security message about the kidnap of the President.
While you stare at the coordinates, an Excel locks its
arm round your throat. This is the end of your
TUuSSLON.

243
Your search in the city will be fruitless. The Groms
have forbidden all private travel and the next bus
out will also be cancelled. Deduct all remaining
TIME units. Your mission is over.

244
Deduct 2 Trim units. You dash under cover and
dive to the left, then roll away and begin to crawl
silently and fast on all fours in approved Rogue
Tracer style. The GromPol fires the fore<cannons of
the craft. Test your Luck. lf you are Lucky, the shots
miss {turn to 347). If you are Unlucky, you will have
a simple burial in an unmarked grave.

245
The transport is a type you have not seen before,
probably of local design. You slip easily between the
plastixrates, but you cannot find an ‘Emergency
Humanoid Operators Cab’. You sit down and wrap
your coat around you and try to get some sleep.
Turn to 208,

246-248

246
You leave the shop and head north. The plans are
mmprinted in your trained mind and you find the
hacienda easily. You take your time and find a
seTvice entrance with no gates or Guards. You care-
fully look at the building. Turn to 167.

247
He says, ‘| thought so,’ and gas starts to seep into
your section of the cockpit. Through a smoky haze,
you realize that he is attacking the Silverhound with
2 group of other craft. Turn to 386-

Lopsti tells the gang to drag you out. They throw
you on to the ground and begin to squabble over
who should take you on. They eventually decide on
some sort of order. You will have to fight each in
tum.

SKILI. STAMINA
First THUG 6 8
Second THUG 7 10
Thied THUG & 8

if you manage to beat the first three gang members,
tur to 107. If vou lose, turn to 95.
;
!
.
:
.

249-251

249
You wake up in a dark, damp. dismal room. You are

chained up. You look up and see a hideous sight. A
Grom stands before you with snakes growing vut of
his head. All the time you hear a command inside
your brain, “You will tell us about your mission, you
will tell us about your mission -. .’ Test your fear
Factor. If von are frightened, reduce your STAMINA
by 2 points. Repeat the test twice more: if you lose 6
STAMINA pomts, your control has broken and you
have revealed your mission (turn te 57). If you have
lost 4 STAMINA points or less, turn to 47,

250

The blaster, set al madmum power, takes the Ex-
cel's head off. It staggers, falls and self-destructs,
But then the Guard is upon you.

GUARD SKILL 9 STAMINA 10

if you win, turn to 34-

251

The shop is packed with old pieces of firmware and
even has some documents in book format. A pre-
Grom technology robot sits at the credit unit and in
limited speech asks if it can help. You reply that you
are just looking. You sift through various bits and
pieces. Tvs! your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to £77.
if you are Unlucky, turn to 396.
252-255

252
The auto-pilot fails completely. The bus lorches
towards the mountains. You take over control
again, knowing that you'll have to fly manually all
the way. You cannot relax. Reduce your sTaAMINA
by 2 points, Turn to 76.

253
You notice alarm lights flashing as you travel along.
In front of you two heavy metal doors are slowly
sliding shut. You think that you might just make it.
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 85. If you are
Unlucky, you are crushed between the doors.

254
You take cover; the police craft circles around.
Eventually, they give up the search and fly off. You
set off along a road. Turn to 327.

255

You look carefully at the shaft. There are bars going
all the way down, but the spaces between them are
greater than your height plus outstretched arms. To
descend you must drop and catch each bar in turn.
Roll three dice and add up the result: this is the first
drop. Roll one die and add the number to your
STAMINA Score: this is your ability to catch the bar.
If your ability is equal to or greater than the drop,
then you haye successfully caught the first bar.
Repeat the procedure two more times. If you ever
miss, you fall to your death. If you get down, reduce
YOur STAMINA by 1 point and turn to 389.

256-257

256
While you walk along the road, no craft passes you
and you notice that vou are heading down towards
a river. By the river is a house, very modem in style
and by the house is 2 power launch. You suspect
that this is 2 Grom residence, Do you approach the
house (tum to 10g) or give it a wide berth (turn to
60)?

257

The Android sets off at a fast pace and leads you toa
small building, with two GromPols standing at the
gate. It tells you that there is a ComTerm inside that
can tap imto security information, but that it is
vacuum-protected and can be accessed only by
Androids. The Android will go in, but you will have
to keep guard. lt unwraps its parceland hands youa
blaster; then it sgutits own stun gunand rushes
into the building. You follow and destroy the first
guard with one shot, while the Android punches a
hole in the second guard’s middle. You take up a
defensive position and wait. Turn to 369.

258-260

258

The Grom craft passes over you just as you reach the
ZipCar. The rockets fire at once and you speed off
with the Grom behind you in dose pursuit. A blast
from his cannon smashes into your exhaust. You
look around the cockpit: you see a button with the
word ‘Thruster’ scrawled above it. This is an illegal
item on planetlevel craft, but is often used by
criminals for getting away. A Thruster will use upall
your fuel and you don’t even know that it will work.
Another shot smashes into your craft. Deduct =
TIME units. Do you risk pressing the button (turn to
8g) or not (turn to 113)?

259
The Android announces, ‘Information not avail-
able. Groms will be using one of four bases: Madrid,
Roma, Paris, Londen. No other details." Deduct 2
TIME units and turn to 32.

260

You push open the doorand, just as you shutit, you
hear the sound of footsteps go past. You look in
front of you and there are two other doors with a
small terminal to the side of each one. Each door
asks for a e and shows the symbol of z
knight from a chess set. You must act quickly. Do
you choose the left door (turn to 5) or the right door
(turn to 112)?

267
The gory scene has made you feel ill. What do you
do next? Do you walk away and continue on {oot
(turn to 379) or wade inte the mess (turn to 9}?

262

You run fast, keeping close to the buildings and
occasionally weaving ta avoid stun shots, Suddenly
an arm grabs you, and you are halted in your tracks
by another group. When they rob you, they come
across your ID. This stops them and they take you
back to the others. When you find that they detest
the Groms, their creators, you explain your mission.
They return your possessions and one of them, a
recent defector, tells you that it saw the presidential
craft brought down near the salt-mines. You have a
choice: the Androids will help you get to the salt-
mines (turn to 208), or they will let you continue on
your own (furn to 59).
263-264

263

You reach the top and stand at the highest point.
The Chronograph is now emitting a visual signal.
You see the rescue craft coming at Catchnet height
and you brace yourself, You are both caught in the
plasti-net. You are pulled in and greeted by a
$pacecruiser commander. The President is taken to
his security quarters. You are left standing around.
Suddenly the first-lieutenant whistles in amaze-
ment, ‘What in the galaxy is that?” You look at the
Vidsereen: a winged, fire-breathing creature with
huge talons is chasing you. The lieutenant waits for
your advice. You reply that it’s just another Grom
illusion. Will you advise him to ignore it (turn to 346)
Or to fire a missile at it straight away (turn to 155)?

264
You are unwise to run. Before you have taken your
second step, it blasts you between the shoulders. It
is an Android whose ‘cover’ has been blown and
which is therefore very dangerous. You will re-
cover, but not in time to complete your mission,
Deduct all your remaining TIME units.
265
You dig down and cover yourself with the under
growth. Breathing in the correct way to avoid sense-
detect, you try to drop your body temperature in
true Rogue ‘Tracer fashion. Bul when you look
ahead, you see a molten flow of lava moving to-
wards you and destroying everything in its path.
Tes! vour Fear Factor. i you are frightened, your
heartbeat speeds up and you are detected: the Fx-
cels blast you to smithereens. If you are not fright
ened, vou let the lava flow over you, proving that it
is just another illusion. When you think that the
coast is clear, you mash across the road. Turn te 213.

266
You jump on the speedboard and coast along
the tunnel in a north-westerly and then northerly
direction. Turn to 253.

267-269

267
Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 21. Ifyou are

Unlucky, turn to 35.

2638
As you wander along, you find the woods getting
thicker and darker. You lose all sense of direction.
You will never get out of this maze in time to do any
good. Deduct all your Trae units. Your mission is

269
The Silverhound is hit many times. One of the
Androids has Jost an arm. You rush around looking
for retro-chutes, but you are too late. There is a crash
and the bus buries its nose in the soft snow. You lose
consciousness as the Androids self-destruct. Turn

to 356.
270—272

270
You sit back and watch the flashing lights and
controls. After a time you fall asleep. When you
wake up, vou look out of the window and see the
Grom heading back to the craft. Add 1 STAMINA
pot and turn to g1-

gi
Ea oa Tape

271
You follow him into the doorway. It is very dark

You hear something clang shut and come across 2
fusty metal trapdoor, obviously locked from the
inside. There is no way to follow him. You go out
and stand in the maze of alleyways and buildings.
Deduct 2 TIME units and turn to 207.

272
You are in Black room, Level 4. Reduce OxYGEN by 1
unit, There is one door leading up. Turn to 196.

273-274

273

You think that the hacienda will have a ComTerm
which could provide information about the location
of the President. What you don’t need is a ‘rogue’
companion interfering in your search, [le takes you
to the hacienda and then you realize that he intends
to leave you there: he is taking no risks. He tells you
to take anything valuable, even food. You set off
and look through an open gate. Deduct 2 Time units
and turn to 167.

274
You leap on to the board, touch a few pressure pads
and glide off almost silently. As you speed away, a
horned creature bursts out from behind the crates
and shrieks at you. The board is light and easy to
control but you are not sure about fuel levels. Do
you travel flat out (turn te 253) or at half speed to
conserve fuel (turn to 148)?

275

275

You stand up and walk over to Orvium, pushing his
guards aside; you tell him that you want to talk. He
is drunk and refuses to talk to anyone who hasn't
played ‘the game’. He sits you down opposite one af
his gang and throws an old six-chamber stun gun
down on to the table. He puts a charge in one
chamber and then spins it. Your opponent picks up
the gun and puts it to his head. Roll one die: that is
the chamber. Roll the second die: thatis his go. If the
numbers match, he has blown his brains out. Now #
is your turn: roll the second dic again. Take alternate
turns until one of you is dead - If you survive, deduct
2 TIME units and turn to 165.

276-277

276

You pull out your Catchman and fire at one of the
Moulgans; you punch a second and the rest run
sway. The Android picks up its boxes and thanks
you in what is quite an emotional voice, You signal
CodeMatch and, when it realizes who you are, it
Srops its boxes again! When it has calmed down it
mtroduces itself as a W 1 L-1 Android, so you decide
> call it Will. It tells you that the President is almost
certainly not in Madrid, but in one of the other
Stes. There should be information about his lo-
sfanon at the Plaza de Toros base station. The Groms
are great organizers and everything is filed, The
Plaza de Toros building is accessible only to
Androids and is heavily guarded by many troops of
Excels. Turn to 380.

277
Before you know anything, it has blasted you. You
are paralysed and collapse in a heap. Your mission
3S over.
278-270

278
You come to a door which slides open as you
approach .. . and there in front of you is the Presi-

dent! There are no guards, justa Grom scientist with
mis hack to you. [he President is still being brain-
scanned, so you know that he has vet to reveal the
codes. You wrench the scanner off his head and the
Grom turns around. He nearly faints with fright,
but then he disappears from your sight, using a
personal Mhus-o-Scope, You grab the President; he is
unresponsive, so you have to carry him out. Reduce
your STAMINA by 4 points. The Chronograph
shows you that there is a tall structure fairly close;
you'll need to get on top of it for the rescue. The
door you came through is now sealed, so you check
the panels around the room for another exit, You
md one that sounds hollow and you kick it in. It
collapses and leads into a very old, dark tunnel, full
of 200-year-old rubbish. Turn to 24.

279
You pick up some food cubes and a Mangola tube.
Add 4 STAMINA points. While you crunch your
wheaty snaps’ flavoored cube you set a course for
Panis (turn to 78) or London (turn to 217}.
280-281

280
‘The Mark | handles well and after a while you see
the city: an overgrown mass of crumbling buildings.
Madrid control gives you settings for the Silver-
hound terminal and you perform a good landing on
manual drive. You park in the craft-park. Turn to
179.

281
Sel{-destruct begins at its feet as it dutifully answers
your question, ‘The administrative building is for
Androids only: even Groms cannot get physical
access, but make contact through their ComTerms.
You can get. . . Before it can give you any further

information, its speech functions disintegrate and
the rest of the Android dissolves into the ground.
Deduct 2 TiM# units and turn to 31.

l

You are correct; (A-C)=+2-B. A submenu
appears and asks for a question. You key in: ‘Is the
Galactic President in Madrid?’ It answers in the
negative. Then you ask it where the President is
being kept. It replies, ‘He is at a high-security Base
Station,” and a symbol appears of a circle with a
horizontal line senags it. The message continues,
Reference 169A - . .’, but it breaks off and another
message asks for your Grom family code letter.
Then “11. LeGat ACCESS’ begins to flash across the
screen. You rush back to the exit. Deduct 2 TIME
units and tum to 194-

283
You stand outside the base station ona long straight
tued, which runs from east to west. You have no
local map of the area, since you expected to find one
at the station. but none were available. Will you go
e2st (turn to 327) or west (turn ti) 103)?
284-286

You are in Lurquoise room, Level 4. Reduce oxy-
GEN by 1 unit. There is a door leading up. Turn to

144.

285

Arana has given you good directions. You see 2
Vidnews machine, and you insert a credit and scan
the files: the news of the kidnap is stil being sup-
pressed. Next to the machine stands an old man
selling a strange cold food, on a cone. You watch as
a native buys one and walks away licking the sub-
stance, You have been warned of the hazards of
open food, but you give in to the temptation. As you
walk along licking in the approved manner, you
come across a roadblock, manned by a GromPol
task-force, You show one of the Androids your ID
and it grabs you. Do you fight (turn to 358) or go
peacefully (turn to 228)?

286

You head for the Plaza de Torus. Jose explaims that it
is built under a Grom Ents Complex. The Groms
have revived bullfighting and have built their own
bulls, since the real ones died out many years ago.
The gang take you to a manhole they sometimes use
to get in to see some of the Grom sports. As you turn
a corner you bump into a wanted criminal, fairly
high on the list, Do you attack as a Rogue Tracer
(turn lo 74) or ignore him (turn to 214)?

287

You know that Houlgans are famed for their skill in
stealing, so you do not show them any credits but
merely hint at the prospect of payment, [hey are
suspicious and begin ta back away muttering about
Grom agents. How do you win them over? If you
think you know the leader’s name, count up the
letters of his first name, multiply this number by his
tattooed number, and go to that reference, Other-
wise, turn to 174-

288
Deduct 2 Time units. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky. turn to 332. If you are Unlucky, turn to 325.

289

You run towards the end of the tunnel, splashing
through puddles and tripping in the louse wiring.
Suddenly you feel empty space beneath you and
you fall down a shaft. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, you catch hold of a hot pipe and slide
painfully to the bottom (turn to 351). If you are
Unlucky, you fall to the ground with a sickening
thud.
290-292

290

You walk in and see a group of assembly Robots
putting together a new range of Excels. The room is
stacked full of Android parts. In the corner you see a
flashing red light. Suddenly a headless Excel grabs
you and locks its arms around your body; mean-
while, another headless Excel comes slowly to-
wards you, its arms opening and closing like
pincers. Throw two dice and add up the result: this
is the Android's strength factor. Throw one die, add
the result to yoursTAMINA score and enter it in the
PHYSICAL TASKS box on the Adventure Sheet: this is
your effort to get free. If your effort is equal to or
ereater than the Andrvid’s strength, then you have
broken loose (tum to 348). Lf itis not, then deduct 1
point from your STAMINA score and try again. If
you do not break free, you are finished.

2gf
You walk along a track from the diner until you
reach a road. Will vou head north (hirn to 363) or
south (turn to 256)?

2g2

fhe Catchman works. You aim at the legs, but the
a. -net is torn up by the bull straight away. You
devide t) dodge away, but you leave it very late, and
the bull is almost upon you. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, the horns have missed you and you run left
t© a shelter (turn toe i112). If you are Unlucky
farewell, brave matador!
293-294

You sit Siien wih: gane sed order a Mangolz,
but Orvium insists that you drink a Boolean Snap-
spine cocktail. When it arrives, you happen t
notice, in the comer of the bar, Brak g and two
grubby Excels, which have obviously been pirated
from the Groms. He knows you very well, So you sit
lower in your chair and order another

By the time Brak has left you have had ten drinks
and you are very drunk. Lose 4 STAMINA points
and 1 Sk1L1 point. You wave goodbye to the gang
and weave your way through the back-streets. Sud-

denly you fall into something and everything goes
blank. ‘Turn to 313.

294
You bank left and start climbing over the moun-
tains. As you gain height you realize that Rocket
Bikes are meant only for low-level flying and are not
equipped for altitude. You look for somewhere to
land with some cover, but there is nowhere. You
push the bike to its limit and try to make it over the
nearest hill. The rocket stalls and you crash lethally
into a rocky outcrop.

295-296

it's very dark in the corridor. There is a curtain at the
end, and you can hear music. You pull it aside and
you see a 3-D Vid of a very old film that you once
saw on channel 44: ‘Starblasters”. You hear a man's

ugh in the circular auditorium. He asks you whet

you want. You reply, "Orvium.’ He gets up; he is
huge and carrics four Masters strapped to various
parts of his body. He esks you your business and
you mention the Grom firmware. He looks you up
and down and says he'll take you to Orvium. Turn
176.

296

Tou stay where you are and pretend to ignore the
mages. Then a Grom appears in front of you. He
telis you that psychologically you should have
shown some interest and that they suspect you of a
rescue attempt. Their galactic ‘moles’ have told
them that a Rogue Tracer is on such a mission. All
they want is an admission that you are that Rogue
Tracer. Deduct 2 TIME units. Do you admit to the
accusation (turn to 57) or keep silent (turn to 122)?
297-298

297
You press ‘8’ and vou briefly sce 169A’ . . . and

then the screen goes blank. You make a mental note
of this code (if you do not already have it). Tum te

» *
*
a
« P~ 2
% Se _
x wy
e wr ; Tw:
- —
+*
=, a
, ’
™ " ats
« fin .

You call out and she aon tums around. You
remember where you saw her before: at 2 ‘kill’ on
Bollitrin 444. She is Arana, a very good Rogue
Tracer. There is an immediate bond between you
and you share information. She tells you that the
Groms have hired her for a ‘special’. Orvium
Egburg has stolen some unprotected firmware from
Records Base in Roma and she suspects that there is
some important information on those chips. The
Groms got her in yesterday and dropped her at the
terminal, Do you offer to help (turn to 349) or carry
on Operating on vour own (turn to 142)?

299-301

299

You drop your cubes and chase after him. When
you are outside you see him signalling towards a
group of Rocket Bikers in the far corner of the
craft-park. You immediately whip out your Catch-
man and pull the tigger. Throw one die. If you
throw 4 or under, your weapon has jammed and
you take him on unarmed. If you throw 5 or 6, then
Lopsti is caught (turn to 121).

LOPSTI
if you win, turn to 121. If you lose, turn to ig.

SKILL 6 STAMINA 8

300
You follow its advice and go the door, You
are immediately grabbed by three GromPol An-
droids, Deduct 2 TOME units and turn to 322.

01
You look carefully at the edges of the door for light
beams or wiring. Suddenty, an Android arm grabs
you from behind in a strong grip. You give way and
collapse out of its grip. You realize that you'll have
to fight it quickly and silently.
GUARD SKILLQ

lf you win, the Android self-destructs. Turn to 260.

STAMINA 8

302~393

302

You land close to the site of some debris from a
space lifeboat. You walk around and find parts of a
shattered presidential Guard Android. Self-
Gestruct circuits must have broken up before they
could operate. You find two recall chips and plug
them into your Chronograph. You can see the event
of the landing through the Guard's vision, You
replay the episode with high-intensity magnifi-
cahon and focus on the setting used by the Grom
pilot. You can see; O#67 RTSS 20K K 1fgA.. . You
xnow that the first three groups are standard codes
tor the Landon area. then you look up and see a real
Grom craft heading towards you wilh cannons
firing The shots destroy the head of the Guard. You

an run for the ZipCar (turn fo 258} or for a nearby
salt trench (turn to 3)

303
The wolf is snarled up in the plasti-net. You run
cack for the fence, but you are headed off by a pack
of them that appear in front of you. Thev chase: you
into a building and up an old staircase that suddenly
gives way and collapses under you. Turn to 313.

394-395

3°4
Before you can say anything, the Android shouts
that you are under arrest. It pulls out its stun gun
and you run off round the corner. When it follows
you ae waiting for it,

ANDROID

If you win, turn lo 279.

SKILL 5 STAMINA S

395
To your left is an abandoned retro pack. You go over

and pick it up. Dhere just might be enough fuel left.
in a hail of stun shots, you strap it on, ignite the
rockets and shoot off in an uncontroflable arc. Tesi
your Luck. if you are Lucky, tum to 241. if you are
Unlucky, you have crashed into a building and your
mission ends here,

306-307

306

You walk over to the bar and talk to the girl. ‘Tt has
kept us here since yesterday when it came in and
demanded a drink,” she says. ‘I gave it some hubri-
camt, but it wanted beer and told me to play this
ndiculous instrument.” She holds upa thin box with
some wires across it. You guess that the Excel has
suffered memory corruption and has its ‘data bus
pins’ crossed, It must believe that it is living in the
past. You have a good knowledge of VidEnts and
realize that it believes it is in what was known as a
‘Western’. Turn to 58.

397
You notice that the elevators work on the balance
puncdple, and so probably require no power. You
eet the President in, shut the metal grille and turn a
large lever. There is a lot of creaking and shudder-

ing, but it begins to work. Turn to 338.
208-310

308
The auto-pilot reasserts itself and sets up the flight
path to Paris. You sit back, eat some food cubes
and get some sleep, Deduct 2 TIwe units. Add 6
STAMINA points and turn to 76.

As you make your way through the city you check
your Chronograph and realize that you will need
transport to London as soon as possible. You see a
transport craft marked ‘Escargot’ and crates labelled
with a circle and a horizntal line through it. Do you
stow away on the transport (turn to 239) or go back
to the Silverhound terminal (turn to 134)?

310
The door slides shut behind vou. You are in the
side-strect behind the Plaza de Toros. Your Chrono-
#taph beeps at you and you realize that you have to
catch the bus. You look over your shoulder as 2
Guard comes out of the same door, fires a blast in
the other direction and runs off. You make your way
to the terminal, Add 2 LUCK points and turn to Se.

311-312

311
You drag the GromPol behind a cupboard, but it
begins to self-destruct in your hands. You walk
towards a door marked "NO ADMITTANCE ~ EXCEL
CLASS ONLY- The door slides open easily; there is
no one around. In front of youis a ComTerm and on
the screen you see:

1% #39 «29
6 11 16

7 17 :~«?
Key in the missing number and go to that section.
You will be told straight away if you are correct. If
you cannot work out the missing number, turn to
194.

You give him a likely felon’s name. the Grom is
immediately suspicious: Rogue Tracers never reveal
tatgets even under pain of brainscan. He lets the bus
go. He stares at you and you stare back, noticing
how slight he is and how useless he would be in a
fight. Just then he disappears and the inside of the
ctaft becomes a square white box. The walls, rool
and ceiling begin to close in on you. Spikes appear
all over the surfaces and begin to ooze blood. Tes!
your Fear Factor. IF you are frightened, deduct 2
STAMINA points. Everything blacks out. Turn to
182.
333-314

343
You wake up with a very sore head and look
around. You are in a set of crumbling underground
catacombs. There is a strong damp smell. You walk
along a corridor which goes from one chamber to
another. Each chamber has a dome-like ceiling. You
then look down at your feet and notice water seep-
ing in from the direction you are walking in. Soon il
is up to your knees. You see a light in the distance:
could it be a way aut? Deduct 2 Tim * units and turn

to 394.

344
You plead that you did not know and are told that
ignorance of the law is no excuse. Do you fight your
way out (turn te 399) or go quietly (hurn to 168}?

345

You pay and discuss the help you need. You let
them know that vou want access toa highly placed
Grom ComTerm. They argue among themselves,
but decide on two likely places: the Plaza de Toros or
the hacienda. The former is accessible only to
Androids, but they think that they can get you in.
The hacienda is less heavily guarded. Do you
choose the Playa de Toros (turn to 236) or the
hacienda (hur to 183)?

316
You go up to the screen and look at the information.
You know that itis all false and that the screen is just
an illusion. The Groms are using a double-bluff
technique to see if you pretend to show no interest.
You touch nothing, and watch the screen. Deduct 2
TIMF units and turn fo 6.
317-318

47

The Android slumps across the keyboard, but does
not self-destruct. You scroll through various codes
and come across the one for the Galactic President.
You investigate this file and you get a screen of
symbols (look at the illustration). The one on the
top-left corner flashes; it seems te be some sort of
clue. As you begin to delve into sub-menus, you feel
the CodeMatch signal from Willi. You go out and
and the Android very excited. It tells you that
Guards are on their way: they have sensed the loss
of the Comlerm Android. Willi suggests that you
ude while it takes care of them. Do you agree (turn
to 223) or stand and fight (turn to 105)?

318
You ate in a chamber. In the corner stands a de-
activated Excel. Behind it is a dour marked with a
chess knight symbal. Do you go through the door
turn te 387)? There is a blocked exit north-east and
ther exits north (turn to 353), south (turn to 139)
ami south-west {turn to 62).

319-320

339

You stand back in a doorway and watch carefully

The Houlgans are intent on robbing the Android
They poke at its arms and legs. By now it has
dropped all of its boxes and one or two have been
picked up by them. They know that a standard
service Android has no real fighting prowess. One
of them suddenly stabs it in the side. There is 2
spark and the Android moves with tremendous
speed, whips out a stun gun and hits all of them in a
few seconds. It knows that you have seen every-
thing and it runs towards you. Do you run (turn te
264) or raise your hands to show that you will not
fight (turn to 128)? |

320
You hack your way through the forest until you are
exhausted. You sit down and a Gromasaurus steps
on you!

321-322

321
You are right to worry about safety, but you are
exhausted and should have had a rest when you
had the chance. Deduct 25TaMrNa points and turn

to 44

322

You are thrown into a dark room. You are deprived
of all your senses until a Gromulan face appears
before you and, in a voice that seems to surround
you, tells you that they know about your mission
through their galactic ‘moles’. All they need is for
you to confess and you will not be harmed. Do you
confess (turn te 57) or say nothing (turn to 249)?

523-344

323
You approach carefully, with your back to the
crates. Suddenly a strange, horned, dog-laced crea-
ture leaps out at you. Its coarse hands grip your
throat and fangs lodge in your shoulder.

HORNED DOG-
FACED GUARD

If you win, turn to 266.

SKILL G9 STAMINA 8

324

Although you are tired, you force yourself on. De-
duct 1 STAMINA point. As you pass 2 group of
Houlgans, one of them brushes agains! you and
takes your Catchman. The others stand around and
cheer, You run after him, catch him and take back
your property. Deduct another s1AmiNna point.
You are shattered. Do you change your mind about
the sleep unit (turn to 228) or carry on (turn to 83)?

325-326

5
You are being chased by a Horned Dog-Faced
Guard. It fires a blaster at you and you weave trom
side to side. [he shots smash into the tunnel walls.
Throw one die for your position and throw the
second die for the blast. If the blast is the same as
your position, then you have been badly hit and
take no more interest in the mission. Repeat this
procedure three times. If you survive, you try to

outrace the Guard.

Throw two dice: this is your speed. ‘Throw two dice
again for the Guard's speed. If its speed is greater
than vours, ithas caught you and you have tolight it
with the neutronsword. If your speed is greater or
equal, it crashes into the tunnel wall (turn to 332),

HORNED DOG-
FACED GUARD

if you win, turn to 332.

SKILL 9 STAMINA §

Test your Lack. Lt you are Lucky, turn to 180. If you
are Unlucky, turn to 343.
327-329

327

You walk for a long time along the rvad, which is
often overgrown. You are getting tired, hunegrv and
ihuirsty- reduce your STAMINA by 1 point. Just then,
you sec a battered ZipCar at the side of the road with
its hood up. There seems to be no one around, end
you approach carefully. Suddenly someone leaps
out of the bushes. You spin around just in time to
see the Lurgan wean? is rushing at you hurl a large
rock. Test your Luck, if you are Lucky, he has missed
(turn to 388). If you are Unlucky, vou ve been hil on
the head {turn to 226).

While you dash off down the back-streets, you hear
a craft taking off very close by and obviously looking
for you. In your haste you find yourself in a blind
diley. There is an open warchouse door on the right
and @ pile of rubble on a broken manhole on the
ground in front of you. Do you go intw the ware-
house (turn to 365) or down the manhole (turn to
87)?

329
You cimb up. As you get higher, the metal bars get
dirtier and full of cobwebs. The shaft leads up into
darkness. Suddenly the shaft gives way and you fall
down and crash through the floor. You lose con-
sciousness. Turn to 313.
330-333

339
Fortunately you land on some soft ground between
two boulders. You take cover straight away, be-
‘cause you become aware of other craft up above
which are obviously looking for you. Turn to 237.

an
Deduct 2 Tisez units. You are in a chamber with,
locked tunnel south, and exits west (ium to 48),
‘east (turn to 27) and north (turn to-439).

332
You are in a rubble-strewn chamber. There is 2
blocked exit to the east, and exits north (lum to 72
and south (tum to $6).

333
‘You wake up by an anti-gravity pool, facing 2 small
Grom who is sipping a long, cool drink. A service
Android offers you a glass. The Grom admits that he
‘was bored and arranged the ‘entertainments’. He
talks for hours and lets slip that he is highly placed
in Grom HQ Madrid. When he leaves you for 2
‘moment, you notice a ComTerm showing an image
of the President. Do you approach the ComTerm
(turn to 242) or stay where you are (turn to 190)?

334-336

34
door easily slides open. You ate in a small,
arrow comidor. There are several smudges on the
floor and another doorat the end of the corridor. On
the walls is a miar which you suspect of
being two-way. Suddenly the second doar opens
and you are crushed into a smudge on the floor
‘Two Grom scientists, who are conducting experi-
ments on extreme high pressure, look through the
glass and wonder what caused the extra stain,

You shrug your shoulders, turn around and eat

your cubes. The man goes away and you sit in

Slence uniil the bus signals for take-off. Add 2
AMINA points and turn toaz

336

Deduct 2 re units. You are in a chamber with
exits east (fun to 12), west (tum to 37) and south
(turn to 326).

337-338

337

‘Hello,’ says the Android. ‘I’m sorry, sir, I have lost
all automotive functions and cannot complete my
tasks. I will self-destruct now.” You order it to shut
up and to tell you the way out of the tunnel. It insists
that it must self-destruct, but it seems to have
broken the circuits which enable it fo do so. You
bargain with it that you will help, if it tells you the
way out. It thinks for a while; its eves dim and then
light up. ‘Okay,’ it announces. It tells you to take the
tunnel and walk for four hundred metres, then take
the left fork and on the third foundation shaft you
will find a tadder leading up into the Ents Complex.
You connect up its circuits and it begins to dissolve
with what could be a smile on its face. You walk to
the ladder. Turn to 25.

338
You come up into a devastated landscape with the

faint green tinge of radioactivity. You see the tower
a short distance away. The Chronograph emits the
coded rescue signal when you reach the bottom of
the structure, There is no one around and you
suspect that the very high radioactivity is respon-
sible. The tower is just a block of concrete with
ladder on the side. You will nced all your strength to
climb it with the President on your shoulders.
Throw two dice: this is the strength factor needed to
get to the top. If this is greater than your sTAMINA
score, then you collapse halfway up the ladder and
both of you fall to your deaths. If you make it to the
top, turn to 263,

339-341

339
The Android stutters as its feet begin to dissolve,
‘Madrid records at Plaza de Toros. . . west of here
-.+ Androids only -.." The decay reaches the
speech circuits and the Android is silent. Deduct 2
rims units and turn to 117-

340
There are pieces of Android all over the room. The
pieces dissolve through the floor and then the floor
gives way and you fall through. Tum to 333.

341
Your fight with Lam qiuses a commotion. The
Excels are upon you and they put you in a holding
cell for eighty gravity hours. Deduct all your
remaining Tit units. You have no time left to
complete your mission.

3427-343

342

You are in a stadium. There is a very high wall all
arournL and across on the far side is a strange
creature of Grommlan make, like a huge bull with
long. steely horns. it stands stock-still. You look
around the bullring; there are three shelters,
equidistant from one another. You walk carefully
towards one of them and notice, too late, that you
have broken a beam. The bull is activated. It turns
towards vou, gives an electronic snort, scrabbles
at the ground and charges at you. Do you use
the Catchman (hirn to 292), run back to the door
(tum to 285}, or dodge left to the nearest shelter
(turn to 121}?

343
You run inte a squad of four Homed, Dog-Faced
Guards, who are clutching neutronswords. You
must fight ail four in turn.

SKILL STAMINA
First GUARD 8 5
Second GUARD > 8

Thira GUARD 9 10
Fourth GUARD 5. 10

if you survive, furn to 180.

344-346

344

You climb up a vertical shaft. There is 2 metal plate
at the top which unlocks and swings open. You are
in the middle of a Roman street. A ZipCar thunders
overhead. You get out and slam the cover shut. The
alarm on the Chronograph beeps at vou and you
realize that the Silverhound for Paris is duc to icave
soon. Do yuu gy tu the terminal (turn to 75) or stay
and carry on your investigation (turn to 221)?

345
You are faced with a frightened boy who looks as
though he hasn't had a good meal in days. You put
him at ease and tell him that you want his gang's
help, He takes you to a bar where the Ral Houlgans
hang out, Turn to 132.

346
You are unwise to underestimate Grom ingenuity.

The Dragon is a mega-missile with built4n Thus-o-
Scope and anti-sensor devices. ‘The missile ploughs
into the rescue craft, destroying evervone.

347-349

You run silently and fast tha through the undergrowth.

The craft fires again, but is off target. Four Excels
begin to comb the area. You reach the edge of the
gardens and there is nothing but open space ahead
of you. The Excels are watching the edges, stun
guns ready and set on maximum power. Others
are using heat-detector units. Do you sit tight
(turn to 265) or mum for it across the open ground
(turn to 213}?

348

Alarms flash as you get out into the Ioading-bay.
There you see a Grom commercial transport, which
is about to take off. The plasti-crates arv all marked
with a circle with a horizontal line through it.
Deduct 2 time units. Do you wish to stow away
on the transport (turn to 245) or go to the
Silverhound terminal (turn to 134)?

9
As you walk along she tells you all the details. She
suspects Orvium is going to sell to the highest
bidder. You tell her your mission, for Rogue Tracers
have no secrets from each other, and she has no
objection to you using the firmware to gain informa-
tion before she returns it to the Groms. She knows
of a few places where Orvium and his cronies hang
cut. You split up and you have two options: the
Roxyrama (turn to 151) or Gino's Club (turn to 285).
359-353

359

You look at the Android and press your CodeMatch
bulton. It walks away from you and sits on a bench.
You follow and sil next to it, but it does not speak to
you and you get suspicious. When you get up, two
Excels grab you and you know that the ‘planted’
Android has been ‘turned’. You are dragged away.
Your mission has failed.

354

You land in a puddle, your hands burning. You are
in a large chamber with an cxit to the left. You look
up al the shaft, trip over something and fall head-
first into the puddie. You feel around and find the
head of a service Android and some other bits. You
quickly do some temporary repair work on the eve
and brain region and you are greeted with a low
rumble which sounds like ‘Hallo.’ Turn to 337.

352
You are in Magenta room, Level 4. Reduce oxvcen
by 1 unit. There is one door leading up. Turn to 144

353
Deduct 2 11a: units. The tunnel divides. There are
exits east (turn tu 37), west (turn to 131) and south
{turn te 338). To the north is an exit blocked by 2
heavy stee! door.

354
The bikes have an extremely short range and after

half 2 previty hour they head off for a large flashing
Star sign that indicates a fuel station. The attendant
service Android beams a manufactured smile at the
gang as they fight over the food cubes. Lopsti and
your guard intervene. [he Android fills the bike you
are on first and you notice that the anti-theft device
has not been set. Do you start the Rocket Bike and
go (turn to 65) or wait for a better opportunity (turn
to 172)?

355
The wolf atiacks and is jomed by a pack of about
twenty others. You cannot fight them all off and
your Catchman has run out. You collapse under
their savage fangs.

356
You head north along several twisting roads. You
begin to lose your sense of direction, when someone
calls you; there is an open gate to your left. Deduct 2
time units. Do you go in (turn to 32) or carry on
(turn to 136)?
357-359

337

You walk towards the Android. It clrops its vacuum
attachment and goes out of a side door. You follow,
turn 2 corner and find it waiting for you. It presses
the CodeMatch signal and you respond. It is one
of the ‘plented’ Androids. It gives you as much
imformation as it has gleaned. It tells you that
the Groms are based in four cities and that the
Siverhound bus is the only mode of public travel to
these cites. The Rocket-a-Hire company has with-
drawn its services due to lack of demand and private
ZipCars are few and far between. All high-level
Groms are linked into the bases through their
ComTermns. IF you can get access to one of these
terminals you could probably get a lot of important
information. When its message has ended it begins
to self-destruct. ‘urn to 72

358
You twist away and then flip over, grabbing the
Android by the arms

GROMPOLANDROID sxKitt7 STAMINA IO

lf you win, you de-activate the Android, but are
surrounded by the task-force. Turn to 218.

35S
As you cut your way through the undergrowth your
feet start to feel very heavy and then you cannot
move them at all. You are stuck and will never get
out of this swamp,
360-362

60
Tose asks you how tee sao his name and you
explain about his father’s diner. He relancs, the
chains and spears are put away and Jose hegins to
accept you. He suggests gaing to get something to
eal, Turn to 132.

361
Deduct 2 TIME units. You walk through the door

and il closes behind you. Suddenly 2 shaft of fire
shoots out of the wall, and part of your boot is burnt.
Next time you move to avoid the flame, but a section
at the floor drops open. Gradually, as the flames
continue to shoat out, more and more parts of the
floor open up. Test your Luck, If you are Unlucky,
you have fallen through one of the holes (turn
to 2m), Lf you are Lucky, you are forced into a
corner and a sheet of flame envelops your head
(turn to 333)-

362
You can hear talking and swesring behind a door.

There are two voices. You pull out your Catchman.
Do you go in (turn to. 93} or look zround some more
{turn to 295)?

363-364

363

You walk along the road for several gravity hours.
Deduct 2 Time units. Eventually, you reach a small
settlement perched on top of a hill. You walk
through the town: it is deserted. As you pass the
empty buildings you see what must have been the
original ZipCar Mark J, rusted and patched, parked
outside a building with a flaking sign proclaiming
‘Hotel Alcazar’. Do you go into the Alcazar (turn to
197) or approach the ZipCar (harn t) 170)?

364

You are faced with three doors, but before you can
decide which to take, the left door opens and out
pops a small Gromulan kid about five gravity years
old. She stops, looks you up and down, then asks
you what's happened te Beany and her lemonade.
You don’t reply. She stamps her foot and a knife
shoots out of her right eye straight for yours. You
instinctively drop to the floor; when you look up a
giant boulder falls on top of you, You are not hurt,
but you see an image of yourself across the room

ing up, cartoon-style, into little pieces, The
little girl laughs. She holds a small Mus-o-Scope in
her hand. She asks you to play with her, Do you
(turn to 68), or will you ignore her and search the
house (turn to 106)?
365-367

You ship into the warehouse as the door slides shut.
You lock around, It appears to be a Grom Android
assembly plant. You are in a room surrounded by
immobile, headless Excels. A Forkliftron moves
between them. There are two doors ahead. Do
you lake the left one (turn to 158} or the right one
(turn to 290)?

The Excel demands to know your business. You
show it your 1D and it disappears. Deduct 2 Tre
units, li leaves you standing in a small white box
with your head feeling four times its normal size
You know that it’s an illusion, but you collapse
under its weight. Turn to 201.

367
You land the ZipCar on a salt lake and get out. The
Grom craft approaches, and suddenly fires its
cannons at you. Test your Luck. if you are Uniucky,
you have been hit and you watch helplessly while a
couple of Bandits get out of the Grom craft. They
strip you of credits and equipment and leave you
badly wounded. You cannot complete your
mission. If you are Lucky, you escape into a nearby
salt trench and the Bandits steal the ZipCar (turn
to 3).

368-369

368
Orvium and his cronies come back in and he asks

you if that is not the real thing. You agree that it is
and you tell him that you have to report back and
arrange for credits, but Orvium insists that you stay
tora drink. Do you stey (turn to 293}, or get out fast
{turn to 186}?

369
All is quiet. Then suddenly two Androids appear,

an Excel and a Guard. You drop just as they fire at
you, and they miss. [hey move fast and you can fire
at only one. Do you fire at the Guard (turn to 173) or
the Exce! (turn to 250)?
¥70-372

379

Ahead of you stands an Android gang. You've
heard rumours of such things, but never knew that
they really existed. They prey on individuals in
order te carry out repeirs to their bodies. They ace
the failures of the early Grom personality experi-
ments. They head tow ards you and you notice Excel
parts on some of them. You cannot fight them ail.
Do you ron away to the left (turn t) 262) or to the
right (turn to ¢2)?7

371

You climb what seems to be an endless spiral of
metal steps, bul you can hear footsteps following
you. You are caught by two Guards in radiation
suiis. but because the stairs are so narrow you fight
them one at a time. You can fight them with the
neutronsword, since they do not use shin guns or
blasters, but long spikes tipped with neuronsplat.

SKIL! STAMINA
First GUARD ba) 8
Second GUARD g 1

Remember that you are carrying the Galactic Presi-
dent and should have reduced your STAMINA a5
directed. lf you win, turn fo 338.
— oo

372-374

372

The tunnel begins to stink and you suspect that the
old sewage system is still in use. You look around
and suddenly a dark figure leaps on to your back
claws sink into vour neck and mepes You fall
over, forcing the creature to ict go, and you see a
woman dressed in black with long nails and sharp
filed teeth, She snarls and attacks you-

FELINA
Tf you win, turn to 62.

SKILL9Y STAMINA 12

373
You join the other shuttle passengers who are
feeding their credits into the Visamatic of the
Silverhound. After each operation the doors blurt
outa distorted ‘That'll do nicely.” Turn to 72.

374

You are surrounded by a mass of huge black rats.
You pull out your Catchman as they scramble
towards you and sel it for wide shooting. Throw
two dice: this is the number of rats in the first
group. Throw two dice again: this is the number
caught by the plasti-net. If any get through, they
sink their fangs into your body. Reduce your
STAMINA by 1 point foreach rat that bites you. Tum
to 336.

375-378

375
You find the circuitand itis undamaged. You realize
that you cannot save the Android: self-destruct is
beginning. Looking carefully at the other circuit,
you do not see what you expect. You get up and
run. This Android has been fitted with neutron blast
ee ee the mission.
There is a terrific explosion - -

376
You are still being chased when the tunne! forks.
Deduct 2 Tmt units. Do you go left {turn to 162) or

right (turn to 73)?

377
You are in Grey room, Level 4. Reduce ox¥GEN by 1
unit. There is one door leading up (turn to 146) and
one door leading out (turn to 310).

378
You head for the left-hand shelter. The bull charges

you and you stand up in front of it with your spears
held aloft.

BULL ANDROID STAMINA 6

if you lose, you have been badly gored and are
unable to continue your mission. If you win, you
have damaged the bull, which has now fallen over
and is leaking lubricant. You nash to the shelter and
find a door. Deduct 2 TIME units and turn to 88.

SKELI. 7
379-382

379
You get back on the road, shuddering after your

nasty experience. You trudge along, but see no sign
of any craft. You are tired, hungry and running out
of ime. Deduct all remaining Tim £ units. You fail to
reach the President.

380
Willi tells you that its masteris a low-ranking Grom,

whose ComTerm has probably not got full access to
the Plaza de Toros base station. Deduct 2 Timer
units, Willi leads you towards its master’s house.
Turn to 36.

331
The GromPo! craft accelerates and soon flags down
the bus. The GromPol Android tells you to have a
nice day. You get on board. The other passengers
try to ignore you. Turn to 22.

382

You sit back and watch the power launch skim over
the water, An Android brings you a Mangola and
you check your Chronograph. Deduct 2 TIME unils
and add 4 STAMINA points. The trip is fast. You
land close to the centre of the city, and an Excel gets
off the launch. You see an old flaking sign, ‘Estacion
del Norte’, which you assume is the Silverhound
terminal. You watch the Excel heading left towards
an old palace in overgrown gardens. Do you go to
the terminal (turn to 179) or follow the Excel (turn to
123)?

il

353
You walk towards the door and it slides open. You
enter and find yourself looking at the back of an
administration Android. It senses you and spins
around.

ADMIN ANDROID SKILL 5 STAMINAO

If you win, turn to 312.

As you plough into the water the creatures swarm
all around you with their mouths open. Test your
fear Factor, if vou are frightened, reduce your
STAMINA and skint by t point each. The illusion
fades, and you carry on to the north. ‘Turn to 318.

355

385

You make a break for cover. The two GromPols give
chase. You feel the distinct swish of a stun shot
passing your left cheek. You flip over, take out your
Catchman and fire, all in one swift movement. The
Catchman does not let you down and the lead
Android is covered in plasti-net. Before you can
reset, the second GromPot is on to you. You kick the
gun out of its hand and take it on in hand-to-hand
compat.

GROMPOLANDROID s«Kil1.7 STAMINA10

Asin all combat with Androids, if you throw double
6, you have found its weak spot. If you win, turn
tO 254.

OO EEE EEE

386-387

386
Deduct 2 TIME units. You come to and find yourself
chained up in 2 warehouse full of crates marked
“Escargot. Suddenly someone kicks you from be
hind. It is a Bandit. Me explains that he has sold
tickets to all the rogues of Paris who want to see a
racer fight. You look around and there is quite a
crowd up on the crates, placing bets and shouting at
one another. Te frees you and throws you a pair of
spiked steel gloves. You get up and see that your
opponent is a typical native of Gigantis 8: he is one
and a half times your height, muscle-bound and
fearless — the nearest thing to a non-fabricated,
ultimate warrior, The Gigantian is also wearing
spiked gloves. As he rumbles towards you, you
catch sight of a window by the crates. Do you try to
break out (turn to 125) or stay and fight (tum to 115)?

7
You are in a large room. In the corner there are six
Groms, all with snail shells poking out of their ears.
They are trying to play a game of chess, but roll
about in uncontrollable laughter as cach in tum
upsets the pieces. You sense something behind
you, and you turn around to see a Horned Guard
riers arm upraised, about to sink an axe into your
ea

|
|

388-390

You have no time to set the Catchman, so you have
to fight unarmed. Beware: Lurgans are famed for

LURGAN

If you lose, turn to 226. If you win, you head for the
ZipCar (turn to £50).

SKILL 9 STAMINA I0

389

At the bottom there is no light. You hear a creaking
and smell burning plastic. Willi limps over to you. It
has lost vocal functions and, frankly, you are grate-
ful. Willi lights up its eyes and you look around. You
are among what seem to be the foundations of a
building. Large vertical metal shafts are sunk into
the earth. On one there is a small inspection ladder
and Willi motions for you to go upit., You ask why it
doesn't come with you and it points at its leg. Will
you walk down the tunnel with Willi (turn to 193} or
climb the ladder alone (turn to 25)?

39°
Your memory is perfect and you get to the Ents

Complex from a side-street; there, just where it
should be, is an inspection cover. You lift the rasty
metal with preat difficulty and clase it behind you.
Turn to 124-
39

You bank right and slow down as you approach 2
forest. The trees are tall and thin. You weave in
between them until the fuel gauge flashes that your
tank is almost empty. You stop ata road; there is no
sound of pursuit. You hide the bike and stand on
the road. Do you go left (turn to 103) or right (turn
to 327)?

392
You are in Brown room, Level 4. Reduce oxyGEn by

1 unit. There is one door leading up. Turn to 196.

393
You follow him into the building. It is dark and you
hear someone running up a staircase. You follow,
but cannot find any trace of him. You go out and
stand in the maze of alleyways and buildings
Deduct 2 TIME units and turn to 207.

394-396

394

the water has completely filled the corridor. You
must swim underwater from chamber to chamber,
Throw two dice and add up the result: this is the
distance you must swim to get to the next chamber.
Throw one die and add the number t your
STAMINA score: this is your ability to swim the
distance. If your ability is equal to or greater than the
distance, then you've made it. Repeat the procedure
three times. If you ever fail, you have to wait till the
water subsides, treading water and breathing, the
stale trapped air: this will take all your remaining
TIMe units. If you succeed, turn to 96.

395
Reduce Time by 2 units. You are in a chamber with
exits north-east (turn to 2), east {turn to 85} and west
(turn to 56}.

396
You leave the shop, without having found anything
teresting, and turn the corner into a wider road-
You walk along for a ime. Turn to $3.
397-400

397
You are in Ochre room, Level 4. Reduce oxycen br
{ unit. There is one door leading up. Turn to 245.

398
The Mark TT] drops into a forest. The ejectormatic
does not work. Your mission fails on impact.

99
You kick out at the first Android and manage to
disable it with a blow te the automotive creuits. It
falls in the way of a blaster shot from the second
GromPol, who vou take on in hand-to-hand
combat.

GROMPOL ANDROID sxrit8 SsStTAMINAI2

If you win, turn to 328. If you jose, tum to 165.

400
You have succeded in your mission. The Galache
President grants you an Iridium AmEx Credit Card.
You will not have to go through the dangers and
loneliness of the Rogue Tracer lifestyle ever again.
Well, at least until you are needed for another
special mission, in the wake of the Gromulan:
quest for revenge!

te © |. he — ce oe @ © +e

A Fighting Fantasy
Novel

-_—— -s

| The
| Krolltooth

.
|
=
|
k=
|

eT i
a

397-400

397
You are in Ochre room, Level 4. Reduce oxyYGEN by
1 unit. There is one door leading up. Turn to 245.

The Mark Ill drops into a forest. The ejectormatic
does not work, Your mission fails on impact.

59
You kick out al the first Android and manage to
disable it swith a blow to the automotive circuits. lt
falls in the way of a blaster shot from the second
GromPol, wha you take on in hand-to-hand
combat.

GROMPOLANDROID sxittS STAMINAI2

If you win, turn to 328. If you lose, turn to 268.

400
You have succeeded in your mission. [he Galactic
President grants you an Lridium AmEx Credit Card.
You will not have to go through the dangers ang
loneliness of the Rogue Tracer lifestyle ever again.
Well, at least until you are needed for another
special mission, in the wake of the Gromulans’
quest for revenge!

A ey cay la ge tl mn

o— .¢ © @-<—

,

A Fighting Fantasy

Novel

The
Trolltooth

