NTASY BOOKS

How can YOU, a humble Wood Elf, over
come the Demon Prince Ishteat

‘Ahumble Wood EIf you maybe, yet it's YOU the
Gods have chosen to take on Ishtra and hip
‘gathering army of evi, chaotic ereatures, YOU
ust penetrate this force before it becomes
invincible, As a Denton Prince, Ishtra cannot be
overpowered by weapony made by any Earthly
fice ~ even by the most magical swond of the

High Elves—so what ean YOU doagainat him}

Perhaps the Wood Elves! powerful art af dream:

‘onto could give you important advantages ant
allow you to cast spells at vital moments tn your

adventure...
need.

‘Two dice, a pencil and anerayerae all
YOU decide which paths to take, which dangers
‘oriskeandl which monstersto ight!

NOSMOVI BAILS

g
g
5
5
g
3
g
rm
5
a
z
Z
2
a
'
8

3

| FIGHTING FANTAS
Over 13 million copies sold

-
a)
—

—

How can YOU, a humble Wo
come the Demon Prince}

A humble Wood Elf you may he, ye
Gods have chosen to take on Ist
gathering army of evil, chaotic cre
must penetrate this force before
invincible, As a Demon Prince, Ishtr
aver powered by weapons made hy
race — even by the most magical s\
Tigh Elves — so what can YOU do ag

Perhaps the Wood Elves’ powerful art ¢
control could give you important adva
allow you to cast spells at vital moment!
Two dice, a pencil and an eraser arc all yc
YOU decide which paths to take, which di
to risk and which monsters to fight!
Cover and Mustratices bv fan Miller

Ud

it
<

= —_

=
5

.

ive

a a

a _— —

Se
ry hw

ee

ISBN C14

|

| a“.
ae aa

rT)
asi

ak

ere

go"?

Sige bei i ee eee

\

ei th Se \ _
= 7” ’
i

Mai
PUFFIN SUOKS

PHANTOMS OF FEAR

A hambie Wood EW you may be, but it's YOU the guds have
‘come to ina dream, and YOU they have singled out to take yn
the might of shire and his growing force of evil creatures! Ina
¢roamu you icarm that at this moment, deep beneath your home
an the Affen Forest, a crac! emmy is being assembled by ishtva.
You must penetrate this force before its strength
mwincibie. As a Demon Prince, ishtre cannot be killed by «
-weapan of any Earthly rare even the mest magical sword ot
the High Elves would have no power aver him. So what effect
can rou, with your lesser powers, have grt him?

Pecthaps the answer to this Jies in the Wood Elves’ art of
éreant-control, governed by the faculty of PoweR, which could
Sve you certain important advantages and allow yuu to cast
Two dice, a penal and an eraser are all you need to embark on
es thrilling adventure, which is complete with it elaburate
combat system and a score sheet to record your gains and
se

Many dangers lic ahead and vour success is by no means
_gertein. It's up to YOU to decide which route to follow, which
@eneces to tisk and which adversaries to fight!
-_—_—_ Qa

. —<—=

_—_—-

TUPITIN ROOES

PHANTOMS OF [EAR

A humble Wood Elf you be, bul it’s YOU the guds have
come to ina dream, and YOL they have singled out to take on
the might of Ishtra and his growing force of evil creatures! Tn a
dream. you loam that at this mument, deep beneath your home
pod loegdee rca wr erode pe Ishira.
peng Demon Frincr, aH cannot brerpien 8;
weagenn - Earthly sace — even the most magical sw

can you, with your lesser powers, have on him?

Nethaps the answer to this lies in the Wood Elves’ art of
dream-control, governed by the faculty of FowER, which could
Two dice, 2 pencil and an eraser are all you need t> embark on
this thrilling adventure, which is complete with its claborate
combat system and 2 score sheet to recon’ your gains and

dangers lie ahead and your success is by no means
certein. It's up & YOU to decide which route to follow, which
dangers to tisk and which adversanes bo fight!
Fighhag Fertesy Gamirtooh Steve Jackson and Ian L ivingstone
present:

T, Tr SRL K CTI + a NPAST: NICMIMARE CASTLE
SOIT AIN » ST OF ee Se eee
4 SAE OOVAUEL ALS 2. aksinoeS
> TUE FOREST Cf GOON M (ULAR TID CH Phx
STA MACE 2). MILSOCET BOC
SCUTV OF TUIFVES , (tasers at
nm TEATHTRAP DUNGEON 3) BATTILERLADE POSES
7 SL ANITLY TI LIZARD RIN, a oe ee we
& SOCESICN SAANT nT Sey LORD
WA APIXNS CITI Sa WIC “4. SEALER CE SOLS
1 SKUSE CE SLL Y* CO KGt® OAme
11, TALISMAN 06 DEATH 22. ARMS OF DEATH
Stat ASSASSIN TT rIwtial i ova
Lk FREEWAY FIGHTER = VAULT CEE SAWS
1M Fe Tee rh PARA OW ae
1S THE RINCS CE RETHES c DEANE R GE
mh Sah te Ix 4. MASTER OFCHACS
VF ATTUINTMENT RTE TAS <- 1 Ae YOON Sere
tK RESEL PLANET 42. THE KEE? CE NE LLL
1S MLAS DE TTIE “et ‘LINDL Tee Oe
Tt SWORD OF THE SAMURAI WanrICss
At. TRIAL IM AS ANY Stee sisi es
= OTS ANDO _ TOWER OF eS el cre P
CREATURE OF HAT
Secee Labsvo » SORCERY!
TM SAM ran eas 3, THE SEVER SERPENT f
iene Cetecerea ais ‘ nes nites Iitustrated by lan Miller

AIGHTING, SAI ANY = Che cttroducncry Kele-Plepang Gace
TLS RIBOLING SSAVER © Boar theiting stort.
TRE TROLLIQUI = WAkS ~ A Fighting Fosteee Newt

ORK INGTTAL DR — A Vightteg | ammacy Nene PUFFIN BOOKS
The Ad+ea.ed Figghtiry Pariass Sestern
tA.0R OSE MT: Oignierg | emedy Scremee
TITAN The Mgr ng Fonipes Wer
DOCNGEONEER ~ An fertnebortice vo de odd of Rae Piveae, Gare:
NM ACRMANDD Acrennes inptece heart,
“ToSlere and lan

tae a asa Ue
etaiRa tee tetas See York foe Wa
ego kA awe tn
Rage Rene terol And 1 Ne P

‘enpta

one cpa ane nada ape A?
mye an ese
nti sei

Fags Ch tec

iartanz imam neem ora

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION
7

ADVENTURE SHEET

BACKGROUND

PHANTOMS OF FEAR
25
INTRODUCTION

You are a Wood Elf in north-east Khul; your home is
deep within Affen Forest, a remnant of the One
Forest of old. Your father was a warrior and your
mother a shaman, and you have inherited both
talents. You are neither as mighty a warrior as your
father, nor as adept at magic as your mother; but
you are good to have around in a fight, you can
weave a few useful spells, and you can also enter
into the dream world which is a shaman’s special
realm. Both your parents are dead, and you are now
Eidenurin, ‘Defender-Shaman of the Tribe’.

You are about to embark on a hazardous. adventure.
Before domg so, you must determine your strengths
and weaknesses. On pages 20-21 there is an Ad-
cexture Sheet for recording the details of your
adventure. You are advised either to write on the
Adventure Sheet in pencil or to make photocopies of
the pages to use in future adventures. Apart froma
penal and an eraser, you will need two ordinary
six-sided dice to play this book as a game.

Skill, Stamina, Luck and Power

Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter the
total in the sx1Lt box on the Adventure Sheet.

Roll both dice. Add 12 to the number rolled and
enter the total in the STAMINA box.
Roll one die and add 6 to find your initial score in
LUCK,

Roll both dice and add 6; this is the amount of
POWER points with which you start your adventure.

For reasons that will be explained below, your
SKILL, STAMINA, LUCK and POWER scores will
change constantly during your adventure. You
must keep an accurate record of these scores, and
for this reason you are advised either to write small
in the boxes or to keep an eraser handy. But never
rub out your initial scores. As in other Fighting
Fantasy Gamebooks, although you may be awarded
additional SKILL, STAMINA and 1 UCK points, these
totals may never exceed your Initial scores, except
on very rare occasions, when you will be instructed
on a particular page. Note, however, that your
POWER score may exceed its Initial value.

Your Skint soore reflects your expertise as an
adventurer, with a weapon and in other situations;
your STAMINA score reflects your physical fitness;
your LUCE score indicates how naturally lucky a
person you are; your POWER score determines how
good you are al casting spells, and how well you can
cope with the dream world, which is the special
domain of Wood Elf shamans like yourself. In the
case of each of these scores, the higher the better.

Battles

You will often come across pages in the book which
instruct you to fight 2 creature of some sort. You
may be able to use magic to resolve the combat, but
if you cannot, or you choose not to, or for some
reason the spell is not enough to defeat your op-
ponent, you must resolve the battle as described
below.

First record your opponent's SKILL and STAMINA
scores in the first vacant Encounter Box on your
Adventure Sheet. The scores for each opponent are
given in the book each time you have an encounter.

The sequence of actual combat is then as follows:

1. Roll both dice once for your opponent. Add its
SKILL score. This total is your opponent's Attack
Strength.

2. Roll both dice once for yourself. Add your cur-
rent sxrzi score. This total is your Attack

Strength.

3. If your Attack Strength is higher than your op-
ponent’s, you have wounded it: proceed tostep 4.
If its Attack Strength is higher than yours, it has
wounded you: proceed to step 5. If both Attack

19

Strength totals are the same, you have avoided
each other's blows: start the next Attack Round
from step 1 above.

. You have wounded your opponent, so subtract 2

points from its STAMINA score. You may use
Luck here to do additional damage (see below).

. Your opponent has wounded you, so subtract 2

points from your STAMINA score. Again, you
may use LUCK at this stage (see below).

Begin the next Attack Round by repeating the
procedure. This continues until the STAMINA
score of either you or your opponent has been
reduced to vero, which is death.

Fighting More Than One Opponent

Lf you have more than one opponent ranged against
you in a battle, the instructions on that page will tell
you what to do. Sometimes you will treat them as a
single opponent; sometimes you will fight each one
in turn; sometimes you will have to fight them all

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either in
battles or when you come across situations in which
you could be either lucky or unlucky (details of
these are given on the pages themselves), you may
call on your .uck to make the outcome more
favourable. But beware! Using Uc is a risky busi-
ness, and if you are unlucky, the results could be
disastrous.

The called Testing your Luck, is as fol-
lows: roll two dice. If the number rolled is equal to or
less than your current LUCK score, you have been
Lucky and the result will go in your favour. If the
number rolled is higher than your current Luck
score, you have been Unlucky and you will be
penalized.

it
Each time you Test your Luck, you must subtract 1
point from your current LUCK score. Thus you will
soon realize that the more you rely on your LUCK,
the more risky this will become.

Using Luck in Battles

On certain pages of the book you will be told to Test
your Luck, and you will find out the consequences of
being Lucky or Unlucky. However, in battles, you
always have the option of using your Lucx either to
inflict.a more serious wound on an opponent you
have just wounded, or to minimize the effects of a
syound you have just received.

If you have just wounded your opponent, you may
Test your Luck as described above. If you are Lucky,
you have inflicted a severe wound and may subtract
an extra 2 points from its sTAMIN A score. If you are
Unlucky, however, the wound turns out to be a
mere praze and you must restore 1 point te your
opponent's STAMINA (i.e. instead of scoring the
normal 2 points of damage, you have now scored

only 1).

If your opponent has just wounded you, you may
Test your Luck to try to minimize the wound. If you
are Lucky, you have managed to avoid the full force
of the blow: restore 15T4 MINA point (ic. instead of
losing 2 points, you lose only 1). If you are Untucky,
you have taken a more serious wound and must
subtract 1 extra STAMINA point.

12

Remember that you must subtract 1 point from your
LUCK score each time you Test your Luck.

Power

When you are dreaming, and when you are casting
spells, POWER is the relevant faculty.

Dreams
The deities of your people communicate through
dreams: they tell you what to do — though some-
times the instructions are open to more than one
interpretation! They refresh you and restore your
powers; the same power allows you both to cast
spells and to be an effective dreamer.

As you know, most beings dream, but they do not
possess the art of dream-controk itis not up to them
whether or not they dream, or what they dream, or
whether their dreams ate the mere ramblings of an
unwinding mind or what Elves call ‘dreams of
potency”. Your race has long known the art of active
dreaming. Your training allows you sometimes not
to be taken over by dreams, and to exert your will to
manipulate and be effective in that world, just as
anyone is in this world. Thus, by dreaming, you
encounter situations which parallel, often in a
tizarre fashion, the familiar everyday world.

43
You will often find yourself asleep and dreaming in
the course of your adventure! The types of situation
you will get into in dreams will paralici those of
‘reality’. There will be choices to make, but other-
wise dream routes and dream encounters will be
entirely gaverned by roweR (and occasionally by
Luck). There will even be dream combat against
illusory opponents: the book will tell you how to
handle such encounters. If you lose such a battle,
you will usually not really be killed or overcome, but
you may suffer loss of rowerk; if you win, your
POWER may be increased. POWER points will also be
gained and lost by successfully or unsuccessfully
coping with the dream world.

Spells can be cast only in the real world, not in a
dream. In fact, you should be warned never to
confuse the dream world with the real world.

You are nota master magician. You know only halfa
dozen spells, which are mostly of the sort which are
useful to a peaceful Wood Elf going about his or her

14

daily business. Nevertheless, you may well find
them useful in your adventure! Casting spells de-
pictes your energy, however, and every time you
cast a spell you must reduce your POWER score by 1
point.

All the spells at your command are only temporary,
and last no more than quarter of an hour. You can
use the spells in battle only if it is feasible to do so:
the book will tell you when you can. The spells

available to you are as follows:
Spell Effect
Protect Casts a pall of invisibility over the area

surrounding you. Elves use this to
protect their villages, for instance.
Beware of including an opponent
within the pall, because he would still
be able to see you within it, though
you would both be invisible from
outside.

Allows you to make anything, yourself
included, appear to be anything else,
within reason (for instance, you
cannot make a molehill appear to be a
mountain).

Weaken Reducesan opponent's $TAmINA by 4

points.

Levitation Allows you to float freely in the air up
to a ceiling of about four metres. Since

5
Spell Effect
you also float gently to the ground
under the influence of this spell, it
could also be used for descending a
cliff, for instance.

Allows vou to detect the presence of
something — it may be treasure, a
secret passage, or even a lurking
enemy. The spell has only 2 short
range.

Fire Allows you to produce flames from
your fingertips, which you can project
either to a small area (such as an
opponent's chest!}, or to create 2
barrier of fire, or even just to keep
yourself warm!

Finding

Skilf
Your SKILL score will not change much during your

adventure, Occasionally, a page may give instruc-
tions to increase or decrease your $k!L score, butit
can never exceed its Inifial value unless specifically
instructed. Drinking the Potion of Skill (see below}
will restore your SKILL to its /nitial level at any time.

16

Stamina
Your stamina score will change a lot during your
adventure as you fight and undertake arduous
tasks. As you near your goal, your STAMINA level
may be dangerously low and battle will then be
particularly risky, so be careful!

STAMINA can be restored by rest, food and drink.
You will not start your adventure with any Pro-
visions, but you will have the opportunity to gather
some along the way. You must note how many
meals’ worth of Provisions you have in the
Provisions Remaining box of the Adventure Sheet.
Every time you eat one meal’s worth, you may
restore up to 4 STAMINA points and must cross off
one point from your Provisions. You may rest and
e2t at any time except when engaged in a battle.
Remember that you have a long way to go, 30 use
your Provisions wisely!

Remember also that your STAMINA score may
never exceed its Initial value unless you are specifi-
cally told that it can. Drinking the Potion of Strength
(see below) will restore your STAMINA to its /nitial
level at any time.

Luck
Additions to your LUCK score are awarded if the
adventure when you have been particularly lucky,
or have created your own luck by some action.
Details are given on the relevant pages of the book.
Remember that, as with SKILL and STAMINA, your
LUCK score may never exceed its Initial value unless

17
you are specifically told that it can. Drinking the
Potion of Fortune (see below) will restore vour LucK
to its Initial level at any time, and increase this Initia!
value by 1 point.

Power

As already mentioned, your PowER score will
usually (bul not entirely) be increased or decreased
as a result of actions within the dream world, or asa
result of casting spells. Note once again that, unlike
the other faculties, your Pow rx score may exceed its
Initial level.

Equipment and Potions

You will start your adventure with a bare minimum
of equipment, but you may find other items dur-
ing your travels. You are armed with your sword
Telessa and are dressed in leather armour. You have
a backpack to hold your Provisions, your water-
flask and any items you come across which you
want to keep.

18

in addition, you may take one bottle of a magical
potion which will aid you on your quest. You may
teke one of the following:

A Potion of Skill — restores skILL points

A Potion of Strength — restores STAMINA points

A Potion of Fortune — restores LucK points and
adds 1 to Initial tuck

These potions may be drunk at any time during
your adventure, except when you are engaged in a
Sattle. Drinking the potion will restore your SKILL,
STAMINA OF LUCK score to its Initial level (and, in
the case of the Potion of Fortune, increase the /sitial
fevel of Luck by 1 point).

Each potion can be used only once. Note down on
your Adventure Sheet which one you take with you,
2nd cross it off when you have drunk it.

19
ADVENTURE SHEET

SKIEL STAMINA LUCK
Initeal Euztal Instial
Skill — Stamins — tuck =
POWER EQUIPMENT
POTION OF
NOTES PROVISIONS
REMAINING

et Fs Seni Skill
Sion — Starmeon — Stamina =
~~! Ska! Seal
Siar = Stamina — SAonpu =
Sea Ska! Skill
acum = Stamnusa — Semen =
Se Sei Shall
Samm = Stemina — Stapuaa —

BACKGROUND

You wake up suddenly, shivering despite the warm
mid-summer night air. You are grateful to see the
familiar walls and trappings of your hut; you know
that you are secure, surrounded by the rest of your
tribe and deep in Affen Forest. The dream from
which you awoke momentarily escapes you. What
was it? Then memory floods in on you.

Tt was a dream of ordinary, everyday life in your
village. Elves were out hunting, tilling the ground,
collecting roots for medicine and food, cooking and
repairing huts. You could not see yourself in the
dream, but you were surveying the scene. Suddenly
a voice spoke — a voice which simultaneously made
everyone look up from their work and frightened
you, It took you a moment to realize why it filled
you with fear: if tags your own voice? But what words
are these you are speaking?

‘IT must leave you for a while,” you said to your
fellow Elves. ‘May the gods of the forest protect you
all while Iam gone, The Demon Prince Ishtra is just
beginning to gather a vast force of damned, chaotic
and evil creatures beneath our forest. He plans to
overrun the entire world — starting with the Wood
Elves. His rule over his army is so cruel that even his
foul minions would rebel if they could, but Ishtra
holds them in his sway by magical power. Thus he

must be overcome. If his sway is broken, his army
will have no ion and power: they will be
reduced to civil war between themselves. His army
is not yet large, so T must go now to face him, while
there is still a chance of penetrating his defences.
May I fare well, and fare you all well until I return—if
| return. Otherwise, we will meet again in Tir nan
Og, the island realm of the Son of the Sea, the Land
of Youth where all must go when their time comes.’

At this pomt you woke up. You now take stock of
the dream. You know full well that it is a message
from your gods, yet never before have they chosen
to communicate by having you speak their words.
You realize that this must be their way of impressing
upon you both the urgency of the task and the fact
that you and only you have been chosen for the
mission. But the idea terrifies you. As a Demon
Prince, Ishtra cannot be killed by any weapon of any
Earthly race: even the most magical sword of the
figh Elves would not strike him down, so what can
your lesser powers do against him? Nevertheless,
you have been commanded te go, and you put your
faith in the gods. They would not so command you
if there was no hope.

You decide to go back to sleep, to see if you can
dream a dream which will give you more infor-
mation about the noble and awesome task facing
you. Turn tos.

3
i

in your dream, you walk through Affen Forest, yet
it is both familiar and unfamiliar. The trees seem
more alive, even more than they normally appear lo
your trained Wood Elf senses; the tiny noises of
twigs and shrubs seem magnified. A vivid force
plavs over the surface of the trunks, being sustained
by the vibrant, siow earth below and spreading to
the smallest shoot on the topmost branch. Even
while you dream, you are aware that this is a vision
of the life-force, which your people call Maélla: it
eives all things life, and a minute fragment of it is
your power to dream and make magic

You do not recognize the particular part of the torest
you are in. Perhaps it exists only in your dream, but
perhaps it has a real counterpart. Affen Forest is
vast — but only a small remnant of the One Forest of
id, when the three continents of Titan were uni-
ted. In your dream, branches bend down from the
trees and usher you onwards along a trail which
pens up m front of you

mo

You are content to be following the trail, but you
also detect urgency in the prodding of the branches.
Where are the trees leading you? As soon as the
question is formed in your mind, it is answered: the
trees stop pushing you onwards and you find your-
self at the meeting of three ways. One way is the
trail you have been following; the other two extend
in different directions, forking like the angle of a
serpents tongue.
1

The trees have stopped urging you, so this is where
they were guiding you. In your dream, you know
that the crossroads is more than just the meeting of
three ways: the path behind you symbolizes your
past life and now — with your heart beating fast and
with your mind strangely calm ~ you have a choice
of two ways onward. But where do they lead? At the
moment, they both look like greensward tracks
through a still forest.

Then you notice for the first time — it has only just
appeared - a statue standing on the exact spol
where the three ways mect. She is 2 beautiful god-
dess, but in human form, and you know neither her
name nor her function. She is completely immpassive;
her arms are folded across her chest and billowing
robes shroud her body. Though made of stone, her
eyes seem to bore into your mind and read your
thoughts.

Your thoughts, of course, are of which way you
should turn at this junction. [he statuc’s arms un-
fold, and a small black dog, which she was cradling
in her arms and had been hidden among her full
sleeves, leaps down and runs yelping past you and
away through the trees behind you- But you know
that, whatever the meaning of this, the dog is not
showing you your path, and you remain watching
the statue.

Her arms continue to unfold, so slowly that it seems
to take eternity, and meanwhile her robes take on
the glow of a pale but brilliant blue, and her face

1

unlocks gently into an enigmatic smile. Finally, her
arms are simply pointing down each of the routes
between which you have to choose.

You look first down the one to your left. Instead of
the plain forest path, lacking significant features,
which you had seen before, there is now a highway
that seems, contrary even to your dream expec-
tations, to open up the more distant it gets. The
end — if there is an end — is indefinite, but such a
sense of health and well-bemg issues from it that
your heart is warmed; and the trees, as they recede
into the distance, lose many of their tree-like fea-
tures, but take on the essence of vitality.

Down the other path, however, the trees and wood-
land shrubs become more and more grotesque, until
they are empty shells, not truly alive, but sustained
by some fell force which exudes such a malignant
power that your nostrils are assailed by the rotten
odour of it. And as soon as your mind registers the
sull horror of the putrescence, in dream you
See its source. A wide area of the forest has col-
psed into a pit, whose bottom you cannot see; but
whatever is there, deep underground, is causing
the blight of the forest, your forest.

2

You now see that the statue bears in either hand
duplicates of your trusty sword Telessa. The beauti-
ful goddess fades int» invisibility, leaving a last
glimpse of her enigmatic smile, and letting the hwo
swords fall to stick quivering in the turf. Will you
take up the one to your lefi and proceed towards the
hearth and health of the forest (turn to 306), or will
you take the one to the right and investigate whal is
causing your precious forest to suffer (furn to 67)?

2
The Goblin asks what you want. You have been
thinking fast, and you ask him whether he has
heard the rumour that Ishtra is going to ban all
Goblin ale until after the invasion. The Goblin looks
horrified and dashes off to tell his comrades the bad
news. Add 1 Luck point for sowing seeds of discon-
tent among Ishtra’s troops. You wait a while and
then continue east down the passage, until you
come toa junction, where you could turn nght (turn
to 123) or left (turn to 310).

3-5

3

You find yourself on the bank of a subterranean
fiver. A noxious mist rises from the river and pre-
vents you from seeing how wide it is. There is a
thick, taut rope which di s into the mist, but
looks as though it stretches across the river. Will you
use the rope to cross the river (turn to 26) or wait a
while (turn to 345)?

4
The noise of some small creature scutthng up a
tree-trunk startles you for a moment, but you see
that it is only a black squirrel. The squirrels of Affen
Forest will not attack creatures larger than them-
selves, unless they feel that their territory has been
infringed, when they have been known to group
together and pounce on the invader in a flurry of

This one is by now bounding from branch to branch
away to your right. ‘Where there are squirrels,’ you
reason to yourself, ‘there are probably nuts.” Will
you follow the squirrel in the hope of finding some
nuts (turn to 339), or will you carry on northwards
(turn to 275)?

5
You think that whatever Ishtra’s troops find so
dangerous might be of interest to you. Of course, it
might be equally dangerous to you! You walk slowly
along the passage, to let your eyes get accustomed
to the gloom. You have not gone far when, in the
6

dim light from the tunnels behind you, you see a
barred entrance to a cave. You notice it because you
have just tri some secret catch in the ground,
which has opened the door in the bars. Immedr-
ately, the Banshee which was imprisoned inside
leaps out through the door. You are not misled by its
resemblance to an ancient hag; its daws alone tell
you that this undead creature can fight, and it is
uttering one of its notorious screams. Roll two dice.
If the total is less than or equal to yoursx1LL, turn to
337; if it is greater than your SKILL, turn to 374.

6

You continue through the cursed forest. The leaves
are brown and swollen beyond their normal size;
there is a constant dripping of vile Liquid from the
leaves on to the soggy ground. Late in the afternoon
— or so you guess it to be, but the sun is usually
invisible beyond the seething brown mist — you
come across a definite trail, tending to your left. You
dread to think what manner of creatures may have
made a trail in this doomed piace. Will you follow
the trail (turn to 69} or continue through the track-
less trees (turn to 321)?

7-9

7

Unfortunately, a Bhorket, which was near by, has
the same ideas as you. You and this shaggy ape
meet head on in 2 frantic dash for cover. Bhorket are
wsually timid creatures, but this one is terrified and
will fight for its life. It kicks and gouges and pum-
mets with its powerful arms and legs. Its high sxKrLL
score reflects its ability to leap out of your reach,

BHORKET STAMINA IL

if the Bhorket ever wins two consecutive Attack
Rounds against you, you lose your footing and
tumble some way down the slope. You must deduct
1 extra STAMINA point before resuming the fight. If
you win, you know that your destiny is waiting for
you, and you must go to face it. Turn to 373.

skirt 8

8

You have chosen not only the name of a clan which
has sent troops to aid Ishtra, but also the one whose
Msignia you are wearing. The Orc captain stands
aside and lets you pass. Once the patrol has dis-
@ppeered up the tunnel, you duck down behind the
pile of bones to quieten your racing heart. Turn to
a7.

9
The vision immediately changes and you are no
longer walking beside a river, but seem to be
pushing your way through a huge crowd. Elyes like
yourself jostle humans and Dwarfs; Giants brush
aside Trolls and Ogres as if they were not there,
10-11

Many of the faces seem to be familiar, though
another part of your mind tells you that you have
never seen them before. Will you try to talk to
somebody (turn to 254) or not (turn to 235)?

10
As you joumey west, you keep meeting impassable
thickets blocking your way. You have to vig-zag to
keep heading in the right direction, and you reckon
that you are walking about three kilometres for
every kilometre of westward progress vou make.
Eventually, you get fed up with this delay, and you
start to hack your way through the thickets with
your sword. This is all nyht for the first couple of
thickets, but you are less fortunate with the third.
Your hacking disturbs the spores of an Itching Pow-
der Plant. The tiny spores pet everywhere inside
your clothing, and the irritation they cause is ex-
tremely distracting. You musi lose 1 SKILL point
until you find a way to rid yourself of the spores.
You decide to return to your former zig-zag route to
avoid any further such dangers. Now your progress
is slowed even more by your frequent need to stop
and scratch! Turn to 311.

1"
The door is locked. If you have a key, you try itin the
lock, but it does not fit. Lose 1 Lucx point. If you
want to try another door, repeat the procedure you
used to get here; otherwise, you walk on up the
corridor {turn to 217).

12-13

12
As you are thrusting through the very next tangle of
prickly shrubs, you disturb a nest of Giant Scor-
pions. One or two of these creatures would pose no
threat to you, but a dozen are dangerous. You fight
them as if they were a single opponent. They are

wanes crawling up your legs, so it is too late for

Bich SCORPIONS sxmt6 STAMINA6

if you lose any Attack Rounds, you have been
infected by poison and will have to deal with it. You
can either cut out the infected area with your blade,
ata cost of 2STAMINA points, or you can search for
Alaba root, an antidote to the poison, at a cost of 1
LUCK point. You must do this, after the fight, for
every Attack Round you have lost. The encounter
makes you decide to avoid the thick undergrowth
and you turn west after all. Turn to 376.

13
You peek through the keyhole, but see nothing
except the corner of a table in the room beyond. You
look down the side of the door: it does not seem to
be locked. Will you try to barge the door down (turn

to 43) or to creep quietly in (turn to 70)?
14-16

14
You hear grumpy noises from inside and an Orcish
voice yell, ‘What's going on?’ Before you can run
zway, the door opens and an Orc guard blocks the
doorway. Another pokes his head under the first
one's armpit, to see what caused the disturbance.
You try to tell them that you are an ally, a Dark Elf,
but they are too angry at being woken up to listen,
Luckily, you can fight them one at a time as they

come through the doorway.

SKILL STAMINA
First ORC 7 6
Second ORC 6 6

if you win, turn to 92.

15
Before long, you arrive at the bank of a creek, which
s flowing east in the direction of Lake Nekros. The
creek is not too wide, and you can see the stony
bottom, so itseems fordable. The water would come
up to your chest, at the most. Will you wade
through the water to continue north (turn to 268) or
follow the creek upstream to the west (turn to 111}?

16
You are unable to prevent the axe clanging against
the side of the tunnel. The sound is magnified by the
tunnel and carries clearly to either end. Patrols of
Ores at one end and Goblins at the other devise an
amusing game, which involves shooting crossbow
bolts along the tunnel for ten minutes: even if you
17-18

were invisible, you would have no chance. Not all
the bolis hit you, of course; but by the time the
guards come down the tunnel themselves, you are
too weakened by wounds to resist. Your adventure
is OVeT.

17
You tumble through empty space. You will land im
the Demonic Planes, where Ishtra‘s colleagues will
show you no mercy. Your adventure is over.

18

As you travel north-west, you gradually become
convinced that it was a good idea to change direc-
tion, because you begin to notice increasingly

strane behaviour among the animals of the forest.
Normally shy creatures snarl aggressively at you
from the undergrowth; birds twitter in alarm from
the tree-tops. It is also clear that the woodland
creatures haye been harvesting food. It is not the
usual season for this, and you realize that all this
strange behaviour is due to their instinctive aware-
ness of Ishtra’s imminent invasion.

19

You begin to regret not having brought any Pro-
visions from home, especially since it is likely that
the closer you get to Ishtra’s pit, the more the forest
arumals will have gathered or eaten all the available
tood. You always knew that you would haye to
carry food when you were underground, but itnow
seems sensible to gather Provisions for your whole
journey, both overground and underground.

The next stage of your journey will be found by
turing to 399. Before you turn there, however,
remember that paragraph number and turn to 50.

19
As the fight went on, you could sense Eric being
hard pressed. You yelled encouragement to him
when you could, but just as you finish off the last of
your opponents, you feel him slip to the ground.
You whirl round to find that he has killed one
Derk Elf, but two remain, though one of them is
wounded: this brutal creature has just plunged his
Spear through Eric’s neck.
You fight these two Elves simultaneously. Each
Attack Round, choose which one you are attacking,
Dut roll dice for both of them. Conduct the Attack
Round as normal against the one you have chosen;
the other may wound you {if his Attack Strength is
mgher), but you cannot wound him (even if your
Attack Strength is higher}.
SKILL STAMINA

DARK ELF 8 -
Wounded DARK ELF 5 4
20-21

If you win, you bury Eric with all honour; there is
the glimmer of a peaceful smile on his bloody face.
You lay his notched axe to rest with him, and
continue on your way alone and with a heavy heart.
Turn to 392-

“ey

20
You know the virtue of staying with a dream,
however strange or lethal it may appear: after all, it
is happening in your mind, so you can come to little
actual harm. But you are too frightened by the idea
of losing your eyesight, and you wake up with a
start. You see the moon high above you: there are
sevetal hours of night still to come, so you return to
troubled sleep. Turn to 360.

2
You think that whatever Ishtra’s troops find so
dangerous might be of interest to you. Of course, it
might also be equally dangerous to you! You walk
slowly along the tunnel, to let your eves get accus-
tomed to the gloom. You have not gone far when, in
the dim light from the tunnels behind you, youseea
barred entrance to a cave. You notice it because you
have just trigecred some secret catch in the ground.
which has ed the door in the bars. Immedi-
ately, the Banshee which was imprisoned inside

22-23

leaps through the door. You are not misled by its
resemblance to an ancient hag; its claws alone tell
you that this undead creature can fight, and it is
uttering one of its notorious screams. Roll two dice.
lf the total is less than or equal tovour SKILL, turn to
102; if itis greater than your SKILL, turn to 140.

22
The door is flocked. If you havea key, you could tryit
wm the lock (harn to 359); otherwise, you could try
another door by rolling another double on your
dice, or you could walk on up the passage (turn to
217).

23
itis now moming, and you wake m the Wild Man‘s
hut. Restore your POWER score to what it was before
the dream fight, and add 1 for your victory. If the
Wild Man is still alive, turn to 215; otherwise, you
crew back through the holly bushes and continue
on your way (turn te 126).

24-25

24

You walk east up the gloomy tunnel, until it meets
another, which is better lit by more torches in the
walls, This new tunnel runs north and south, but
you estimate that south would take you back to the
cave of bones, near the entrance to Ishtra’s under-

ground kingdom, so you turn north. Some way
further on, you pass a stout wooden door on your
right. You listen, but can hear no noises from
beyond the door, Will you carry on north (turn to
274), or find out what is beyond the door (furn to

13}?

25

You wake up. While you were dreaming, you hada
feeling of certainty, invincibility and knowledge.
But when you are fully awake, thal feeling is gone;
although you remember the details of the dream,
you are uncertain what it means or what it could
have to do with your quest. You judge fram the
night sky that dawn is still a couple of hours away.
Will vou go back to sleep (turn to 120) or climb down
the tree and resume your journey (turn to 169)?

26-27

26

You tug on the rope and it seems firm. It is sus-
pended only a metre or so above the water, so if you
don’t want to get wet, you will have to wrap your
legs as well as your arms around the rope and inch
your way across. You start to do this. Itis hard work
and before long you feel your grip starting to go.
Roll one die: on 1-2, turn te 82; on 4-4, turn to 312;
on 5-6, turn to 353.

27

Once you are fairly well hidden behind the bones,
you start to wonder what they are doing there. They
are too old to be the refuse of the tunnels’ present
occupants. You see cloven skulls and other signs
that these people did not die peacefully in their
sleep; you also see that the skeletons are mainly
human.

it dawns on you that these must be the remains of a
force that fought against the legions of Evil in the
Great War which ravaged Khul centuries ago, In the
past these tunnels have seen bloody combat. It
heartens you that these underground warrens were
once home to such heroes; maybe there are traces of
Good left in this nest of Evil. It could be worth vour
while to explore a bit. Add 11 Uc point and tur to
Bs.
28—29

28

The stags do not speak in response, bul a strange
force sparks and crackles between their two sets of
antlers. Your sight is temporarily blinded by the
brightness of the flashes. When you can see again,
there is a single antler suspended in mid-air be-
tween the stags. You step forward and grasp the
antler; whatever force is holding it is released, for it
comes easily into your hands, On inspection, it
turns out to be hollow, like a horn; and you note
particularly that it has Geelve branches (note this on
your Adventure Siwet). You blow a mighty biast,
which echoes around the canyon, before tucking
the antler-horn safely in your backpack, silently
thanking the majestic creatures, and proceeding on
your way up the valley. Add 1 Lucx point and turn
2 383.

29
Even while you are steadying yourself to meet the
Bloodhawk’s diving attack, the thought passes
through your mind that it is far from its usual open
habitat. Could it be a spy sent by Ishtra? Then there
ss no more fime for thinking, only doing.

GIANT
BLOODTIAWK SKILLZ STAMINA 12

if you win, you leave the clearing and continue
north. Turn to 332.
gon3

30
The kitchen does not lie behind you, so your bluff
does not work, ‘he Goblins make short work of you
and then return to their meal— with an extra item on
the menu!

x

You harden your resolve and spurn the offer of the
fairies; your destiny lies in more direct action. You
awaken from the dream and find that the glade
has vanished. You are right on the border of the
blighted land; all thatis left of the enchanted glade is
a single elder tree. The tree is obviously magical:
your attention is drawn to its branches in particular,
because of their regular You notice
that there are exactly tventy-two branches (note this
on your Adventure Sheet). All but one are normal,
leafy boughs; but the other is silver and gleams with
its own inner light. You pluck it, stow it in your
backpack, and take your first step into Ishtra’s cruel
kingdom. Turn to 259.

32

‘Oh, very clever,’ says the chief of the Pbdes, as the
net dissolves, and you wade to the bank of the pool.
‘All right, we'll have to help you. The first thing you
should know is that the entrance to Ishtva’s pit is
more or less due north of here — though why you
should choose such a complicated way of killing
yourself, | don’t know. Secondly, the Riddling
Reaver, the majestic jester, allows you to take any
one of these items,’

33-34

The Pixte makes a gesture in the air, and several
items appear on the in front of him: a pouch
of medicinal herbs; a twelve-branched stag’s antler,
hollowed and carved into a horn; a net just like the
one you were caught in; and a pair of boar’s tusks.
Choose one of these items and turn te 109.

33

The door is open. Although it is cool throughout
ishira’s underground kingdom, you are met with a
blast of cold as soon as you enter the room. This is
the cook's freezer; the walls are solid ice, and car-
asses are hanging from rows of hooks. You can
identify some of the carcasses, but wish you
couldn’t. There is nothing here to interest you,
unless you want to take some ice. A fair-sized lump
of this would keep for quite a while, wrapped in a
strip torn off your clothing. For some reason, the
room number, 33, sticks in your mind. Next you can
either try another door by rolling another double on
your dice, or you could walk on up the corridor
(turn to 217).

34
When you become invisible, you do not become

immaterial. The Lizard Man platoon still know
where you are, and are still able to cut you to pieces.
To their satisfaction, your dying, bleeding body
becomes visible again as it drops to the ground.
35-38

35
Will you cast a Finding spell, to see if you can detect
any danger up the tunnel (turn to 218), or preserve
your POWER and risk exploring it without fore-
knowledge (turn to 279}?

36
The Goblin grunts, “Huh! Carry onl’, and Jets you

pass. Will you make for the door to your right (turn
to 119) or the one to your left (turn to 330)?

37 > *
Deduct 1 rower point, When you rise into the air

above the Weevil Man, he howls in surprise and
runs away. Your ruse has worked and you may
continue safely with your journey. Turn to 308-

38

Your fight with the first Pygmy Orc has you circling
around each other, looking for an opening. The Orc
makes a quick move to the right—and is struck in the
neck by his comrade’s dart! A look of surprise flits
across his face; then he drops down dead. You turn
to engage the second Pygmy Orc before he has time
to reload his blowpipe- Turn to 369-

39~44

39
You can find nothing useful to take among the foul
and barbarous mstruments of torture which the
Ogre dropped. Will you now take the passage north
(turn to 351) or turn night and walk east (tum to
255)?

40

fears well in your eyes as you raise your sword
against this nightmare-spawned monster, which
has taken over your village. As soon as you strike
the first blow, the image changes and you see the
peaceful village you left, where Elves go about their
daily business as if they had no cares in the world.
Again, you are viewing the scene from above, not as
part of it, and the village recedes as if you were
floating away. Gain 1 POWER point and turn to 231.

41
As s0o0n as you attempt to cast the spell, you wake
up from the dream in the utmost terror. You have
tallen into the trap of confusing a dream with reality:
you cannot cast spells in dreams. You must lose 2
POWER points — 1 for the failed spell and 1 extra.
Turn to 380.

42-45

42
=. during this combat, the Ogre ever rolls a double 6
@gainst you, he has succeeded in knocking you off
the boat (turn to 162). Otherwise, resolve the com-
Dal as normal.

FERRYMAN SKILL 8 STAMINA 10

= you win, you tp the body overboard and pull
yourself across the river, Turn to 100.

43
& your STAMINA is 35 or more, you succeed in

crashing through the door (turn to 189); otherwise,
you succeed only in bruising your shoulder (deduct
i STAMINA point) and in waking the Orcs who were
resting in the roam (turn to 14).

+4
The dooris locked. Ifyou havea key, you could trvit
im the lock (turn to 280), Otherwise, you can roll dice
for another room, or continue up the passage (turn
&0 217)

45
As soon as you leave the eye of the storm, you are
lashed and buffeted this way and that by the raging
torces. Something seems to eject you violently from
the storm and deposits you back in the centre, Lose
i POWER point and turn fo 164.
46

46

The Drake takes you swiltly to the top of a hill. A
single tree crowns the hill; it stands stark and
leafless against a grey sky. In the fork of the two
main branches of the tree a large, untidy nest has
been built by some bird. The Drake deposits you on
the ground next to the tree and flies off, its duty
done. You hear a loud squawk; a bird takes off from
the nest and swoops down towards you to investi-
gate, As soon as you see it, you know what to
expect. It is a Hoatzin, a mythical bird with a two-
metre wingspan, a vicious beak and daws project-
ing from its wing-tips. You may gain some POWER
here, certainty, but only if you win the fight.

The Hoatzin dives in to the attack. It has a POWER
score of 12. Roll tvo dice. If you roll 2-7, the Hoatzin
reduces your POWER score by 2 points; if you roll
§-12, you reduce its POWER score by 2 points.
Continue the fight until cither its or your POWER
score is zero, lf you win, turn to 340; if you lose, furn
bo 293.

47-48

47

The cracking of a twig to your right warns you that
Someone or something is approaching, Before you
can react, a heavy foot presses down on your neck
and immobilizes you. A gruff voice commands you
to reach slowly for your sword and throw it away
from you. Will you do as he says {tum to 375) or
resist (turn to 125)?

38

There is a path of sorts between ruined houses,
some of which are stil] smoking. The smell of death
hangs heavy in the air, In a crater in the ground you
see two bloated corpses, which are being ripped at
by scavenging Mordidas. You know that you are
walking through a scene from the future of Titan, if
ishtra’s plans of conquest succeed. You are deter-
mined that they shall not. The path forks to
bypass a hill. Will you go left (turn to 208) or right
(turn to 186)?
49-50

49
You know the virtue of staying with a dream,

however strange or lethal it may appear: after all, it
is happening in your mind, so you can come to little
actual harm. Although the dream is frightening,
you manage to stay asleep. When your eyes are
Pierced, it is true that you are blinded to that dream
world, but instead your eyes are opened to another
world, and the dream abruptly changes. Turn to
144.

50
As you search for Provisions, you may well have to

fight some forest creature, either because you try to
deprive it of some food or simply because it Is
aggressive. Roll one die to find out what creature, if
any, you fight:

No encounier

Wolf (sKILt 7, STAMINA 6)

Moose (SKILL 6, STAMINA 12)

Bear (SKIL. 7, STAMENA 34)
Forest Giant (SKILL 9, STAMINA 9)

No encounter

if you do not have to fight any t, or when
you have won, roll two dice: this is the total of
meals’ worth of Provisions you are able to find.
Enter this total in the Provisions Remaining box of
your Adventure Skeet and then tum to the paragraph
whose number you were instructed to remember.

awmabhwN

51-52

52

As you walk along, you notice signs that this part of
the forest is occupied by some other humanoid
creature. At first you see only the occasimal broken
twig, which could have been caused by something
else, but a footprint in a muddy patch of ground
makes you certain. Will you cast a Finding spell
westward, to see if there is danger near by (turn to
148), press on regardless (turn to 449), or turn back
to the north to keep out of the way of whatever it is
(turn te 227)?

52

You run and run, but seem not to be moving at all.
You hear the Angaroc behind you; you sense that it
is about to pounce. lt smothers you with its vast
body and pins you down while it drains your life-
force. There is no escaping this monster, since it is
not just 2 figment of your imagination, but one of
the guardians which Ishtra has set in the dream
world. Your adventure is over.

53

53
As soon as you begin to feel your PowER draiming,

you flip to the dream world and find yourself con-
fronted by Morpheus, Ishtra’s lieutenant. He ts a
gross, bloated creature, the source of all nightmares
for the races of Titan. His body has no definite form,
but seethes with the stuff of nightmares — foul
creatures, great and small, He will send several
nightmare creatures against you, to soften you up,
before attacking you himself. You will have to fight,
one after the other, a Harpy (rowex 10), a Claw-
beast (POWER 12) and a Wreith (rower 14). The
Harpy is a winged demon that slashes at you with
its talons; the Clawbeast swings its four arms at you,
trying to rip your dream body with huge hooked
claws; the Wraith simply tries to drain your POWER
by its terrible presence. Conduct each battle as
normal for dream combat, by rolling two dice: if you
roll 2~7, the monster has reduced your POWER score
by 2 points; if you roll 8-12, you have reduced its
POWER score by 2 points. At the end of each fight,
restore your POWER to 4 less than what it was before
the fight began. If you lose all three battles, you are
unable to remain in the dream world, and you flip
back to 73, with no chance to return here. Other-
wise, turn to 364.

;

,

54-55

*

The captain of the Lizard Man patrol that you mect
out in the corridor is a little more intelligent than the
Goblins. He finds it not just amusing, but sus-
pioous, that you cannot stomach the good, whole-
some food they get served up here. It makes him
think that you are not the Dark Elf you seem to be,
Rather than take any risks, he orders his platoon to
cut you to pieces. They do so, with relish.

55
The dooris not locked. You open it and find yourself
m 2 larder. You can restore 4 STAMINA points by
eating some of the food. Then you can either try
another door by rolling another double on the dice,
or you can carry on up the passage (turn to 217).
56-57

56

Further on up the hill, you are set upon by three
Wolves. At first, you see only their eyes, glowing
lke red-hot coals in the undergrowth. Then they
spring out, snarling, and prowl around you in an
ever tighter arcle, waiting for an opportunity to
pounce. You draw Telessa, and you hope vou have
time to cast a spell as well. They are too close for you
to use Protect effectively. You think you had better
try Levitation (turn to 103) or Fire (turn to 273).
Alternatively, you may simply fight them without
using a spell (turn to 79).

57

You continue your journey on all fours. It is some
time before you dare to pick yourself up and pro-
ceed as normal through the trees. You wonder
whether the blast of wind was directed by some
mieiicent mind towards you in person, or whether
tt was the instinctive response of Evil towards
You realize that, however hazardous your journey
up to now has been, the dangers have at least been
reasonably familar. Once you reach the blighted
land, however, you suspect that you will enter an
uncharted region of unknown terrors. Turn to 239.

38
Although your body becomes invisible when you
flip into the dream world, it does not become im-
material. Your physical body is still obliterated,
leaving you to wander for ever in vain through the
dream realm. Perhaps you will be secn by sensitive
people as a ghost; at any rate, your adventure is

Uver.

59
You step out into the open. The sun glints off your
sword Telessa and you seem to the six frightened
travellers who are staring at you to have appesred
from thin air. This is the shaff that legends are made
of: add 1 POWER point.

The awestruck travellers invite you to share their
meal, but since they are eating venison, you decline:
Wood Elves do not eat meat. It turns out that the
travellers have been on the road for many months,
and have come from a city called Kalagar, far in the
west, They are trying to get to Arion, and to catch a
boat from there to some remote island, to escape the
doom which the Kalagarian prophet Vanator has
foretold for the world. You grimly acknowledge to
yourself that the prophet may not be far wrong, if
Ishtra has his demonic way- Will you in response
tell the travellers something of your mission (turn to
209) or not (turn to 236)?

60-61

60

You should have obeyed your instincts. In the real
world, your body, though invisible, bumps into a
Troll and an Ogre, who have themselves collided at
2 junction in the tunnels. The Ogre thinks it was the
troll which caused it to drop the instruments of
torture it was carrying; but it might have been you in
your invisible state! This rude awakening jerks you
back to the real world, where you again become
visible. Turn to 193.

61

You cross the cavern, taking care not to touch any of
the weird lichen. You have to get back on to your
hands and knees to continue down the tunnel. But
atter another half hour of this awkward mode of
travel, you start to detect fresh air, and soon you
Dreak out on to the western slopes of the hill. You
stretch your cramped muscles and look ahead to the
west, to see what terrain you must cross next.

The hill descends gently into a valley, where all
seems to be peace and harmony. The trees there
seem still to be clothed in spring green. But this
sparkling copse ends with shocking abruptness in a
landscape which is unlike anything you have seen
Defore, awake or in your worst nightmares. You
realize that you are looking cut over the blighted
purt of the forest, which your dream revealed to
you. it is considerably larger than you thought it
would be: it stretches for kilometres in front of your
eves. Turn to 386.
62-64

62
In the dream world, you land in a river of molten
lava; in the real world you land in a river of ordinary
water. Turn to 161.

63
You lock the door, with the Orcs* bodies inside the
room, to prevent anyone easily seeing signs of your
intrusion into fis room, at any rate. Add 1 LUCK
point, However, the key jams in the lock and you
cannot take it with you, You then carry on north.
Turn to 274,

64

The view before you twists and heaves. Is it the
entrails of some immense monster or the coils of a
serpent? And then, while you watch, it changes
again into a sinister landscape of wild country with
waterways running through it. lt strikes you that
what you see here parallels the real world of tun-
nels, but on a much larger scale: a narrow tunnel
becomes a wide river; the solid rock between tun-
nels becomes bizarre and bloated countryside.
While the dream world retains this much similarity
to the real world, you had better choose which way
to go, Will you follow a river which runs west (turn
to 313), east (turn to 226), north (turn to 365) or
north-east (turn to 9)?

65-67

65
You strike the final blow against the Vampire. It
immediately vanishes, the illusion is dispelled and
you wake up. Restore your POWER score to what it
was before the combat and add 1 point for your
victory. It is now morning, so you decide to con-
Snue your journey. Turn to 172.

66

The dooris not locked, for the simpie reason that the
room is empty. You poke around for a while, but
6nd nothing. When you come out, you are con-
fronted by a squad of guards. You try to persuade
them that you are a Dark Elf with legitimate reasons
for searching rooms, but they are not convinced,
You are frogmarched off to Ishtra’s dungeons,
where you will spend the remainder of your short
life.

7

As you walk up the path, the trees change from the
peaceful, slow creatures which you know and love.
Roots bulge out of the ground even as you pass and
snake towards your ankles; branches brush your
cheeks, but not in gentle recognition of a kindred
spunt. There are no leaves on these trees, except for
2 few rotten remnants, which ooze thick resin and
flick it st you; it burns whenever it lands on some
exposed part of your skin. But worse than all this,
and worse than the hideous forms of these warped
trees, is the smell which the pit exudes. The closer
——

68

you get to it, the more your senses scream that thisis
wrong, wring, WRONG!

The part of you which remains consaous even while
you sleep is aware that you are tossing and tuming
on your pallet, and are close to waking upin order to
avoid the foul nightmare. Will you try to continue
with the dream (turn te 395) or choose to wake up
(turn to 380)?

687

After a while, the tunnel veers to the left, and you
find vourself outside what is unmistakably the
kitchen of Ishtra’s stronghold. You feel that you
have been lucky in not meeting any patrols recently,
and you do not want to push your luck too far by
returning along the passage you have just walked
down, so you push open the door into the kitchen.
Turn to 320.

—

“ Yow «
. > hy
. yy
2 ~ “ bs

;

= = + . " ~~

oe a ~ > : ~ m3
= - ~

eA . : e 4
~ ~~ , ~
: =} BR :
— " ——
= -
=

a

=
—“S
=
f.
>
=

5

69-71

69

You walk warily along the trail. To your relief,
nothing pounces out at you from the woodland on
either side, and there appear to be no traps. The trail
leads straight to a fenced-off area. Inside the fence
the trees have been cleared, but great holly bushes
have been allowed to spring up. The hollies are so
dense that you cannot see whether or not there is
anything else apart from them here. The spot has
obviously been created by an intelligent mind - but
for what purpose? For all you know it could be a
nursery for poisonous holly bushes. Will you go
into the fenced-off area (turn to 122) or avoid it (turn
te 321)?

70

Test your Luck. Tf you are Lucky, the hinges do not
squeak and you are able to get in without disturbing
the room's occupants (turn to 189). If you are Un-
tucky, the hinges make the most abominable noise
(turn to 14).

71
Deduct 1 POWER point. You create the illusion that

you are covered in black, spiked armour from head
to foot — not just a formidable foe, but an im-
penetrable target as well. The Weevil Man shrieks in
terror, huris his hatchet at you and runs away. You
have time to wish that you were really wearing
armour: a hatchet cannot be deluded. Test your Luck,
if you are Lucky, turn to 185; if you are Unlucky,
turn to 157.
72-73

72
The door ts actually a disguised Quartz Golem,
which Ishtra has set to guard the armoury. You do
tknow the secret for entering the armoury, so as
soon as you touch the ‘door’, it transforms and
attacks you. You are taken so much by surprise that
t inflicts 2 STAMINA points of injury on you before
you can react. Then you are ready for it— but itisa
massive and terrifying prospect.

JUL ARTZ GOLEM SKILL 10 STAMINA 18

\fter two Attack Rounds, you can try tu escape
turn to 280). [f you remain and win the battle, tum
ee a |

73°

the further you go along this passage, the more you
can sense great Evil ahead, so you thik you must be
nearing your goal. You come to a cave where,
though there is nothing to be seen, the aura is so
oppressive that vou cannot move. It is like an im-
penetrable, suffocating blanket, but it writhes with
an evil force, and mghtmarish images form in your
mind. You feel your powex draining away as you
struggle to break through, and then your lifeless
body drops to the ground

—

74-75

7
‘That is not permitted; that is not the boon we may
grant,’ is the stern reply. Do you detect a note of
sadness in the voice? However much you plead,
you cannot move the impassive stags to respond
any further, Will you carry on up the valley (turn to
383) or investigate the pile of bones (turn to 135)?

7

‘The water doses over your head and you find
yourself swimming freely in a new and miraculous
realm. You have temporarily broken through into a
part of the dream world which the Evil of ishtra’s
sway cannot touch. You explore this underwater
realm at your leisure, marvelling at the colours of
the fish and the plants. Add 2 rows points. But
this cannot last for ever. Just as you are beginning to
think of remaining here, a waterspout forms and
picks you up. It travels at unimaginable speed back
in the direction you came from. It dies down
gradually and deposits you gently on a river-bank.
Turn to 105.

76-77

76
While you watch in amazement from the clear spot,

_ the chaos of the storm subsides a bit and you begin

te be able to make out certain distinct features.
Arranged from right to left in front of you are three

_ types of storm: lightning flashes on your half-right,
_ tain lashes down directly in front of you, and an

mmense hurricane is boiling up to your half-left,
Tou spin round to find exactly the same arrange-
ment behind you. While you look on in awe, a
teeling of great calm descends on you, but it is the
talm of power waiting to be unleashed, not the calm

_ @ sloth. Al the same time you know, as if a voice

Bad spoken inside your head, that the eye of the

_ Storm is formed by wind, water and fire in this way.

Gain 2 POWeR points and turn to 25,

77
The Goblin senses your hostile intent. He draws a
curved and stained blade and silently engages you
m combat.

SOBLIN

= you win, you carry on east down the passage until
you come to a junction, where you could turn right
‘turn to 123) of left (turn to 310).

SKILL 5 STAMINA 5
78-79

78"

The poricullis on the path to your left mses and you
walk under it. The only trick in the Sphinx’s words
is that, since it was facing you, then whatis left from
its point of view is right from yours, and vice versa.
The portcullis smashes down on you as you walk
under it, killing you instantly.

79
You plant your feet firmly on the ground, and face |
the three-pronged onslaught. By summoning up —
your innate nimbleness as a Wood Elf, you can fight”

them one ata time.

SKILt STAMINA
First WOLF 7 6
Second WOLF 6 6
Third WOLF 6 8

If you win, turn to 314,

80-81

80#

You would definitely rather not be here at all. Your
surroundings seem normal enough, but that only
mcreases the terror you feel. It is as if you are
walking along a forest track, knowing that you are
entering the jaws of death — or, worse, about to
commit some horrendous crime yourself — but are
unable to stop yourself. Whatever lies waiting for
you up ahead, you are sure that it will take great
POWER to overcome it. lurn to 338.

S1
You fail to notice an ingenious, but primitive, trap,
which is hidden in the und . Several short,

sharpened stakes have been tied on to a stick. When
you step on the trigger — a length of supple wood
tring on the ground and covered with leaf mould -
the stakes spring towards you at chest height. You
cannot avoid the stakes altogether, but you manage
t turn so that you are sideways on to them, and not
such an open target. Roll one die: the number rolled
s the number of STAMINA points of injury you
sustain.

81

You then continue your journey, wondering what
type of creature set the trap . .. and for whom.
Soon, however, the deepening dusk persuades you
to make camp for the night. You could sleep in
hollow under the roots of a fallen tree (turn to 335),
or you could climb up another vast tree and camp in
the branches (turn to 233).

82-84

$2
tour hands slip off the rope and you dangle head
gown in the water by your ankles. The polluted
water of the river burns your skin and seeps into
your nostrils. Lose 1 STAMINA point. Roll two dice.
if the total is less than or equal to your SKILL, turn to
353: if it is greater than your SKILL, turn to 1681.

Sy the time you have walked south-west for most of
the morning, you are convinced that you have taken
the wrong direction. There is no increase in the
trepidation of the forest animals; if anything, you
notice a slight decrease. You decide to turn north, to
ink with where you would have gone had you
mavelled north-west since morning. Lose 1 LUCK
point and turn to 171.

You cannot stay here for ever, You can easily find a
Sme when the cavern is empty of patrols to enter
one of the other tunnels, but which one? There are
four to choose between, not counting the one you
have recently come from, and by now you have seen
patrols either emerging from or entering all four
tunnels.

While you are pondering the matter, two patrols
emerge from two of the tunnels and go down the
her two. You reckon that the tunnels they have
west come from are now likely to be more clear. Will
you take the northern tunnel (turn to 281) or the
western one (turn to 333)?
85

85

Suddenly, the tunnel starts to move; the earth itself
ss heaving. The river seeps through cracks in the
sound and disappears, Great rocks come crashing
down, but none touch you — they are not meant
t. The way ahead and behind is now blocked,
Sut there is open air Overhead. But an Angaroc is
slithering through this vent.

Angarocs are hell-spawned creatures which exist
only in the dream world — until some sorcerer
discovers how to bring them through to the real
world! They are servants of the Snake Demon Sith,
who values them highly among her pets. They are
tke huge snakes, but at intervals along their bodies
tour legs sprout from either side, The legs are thick
end hairy, like a spider's, and enable the Angaroc to
ap surprising distances. Anparocs have no
weaponry — no armour, claws or teeth. They need
none, for their very being is venomous. Anyone
who comes near an Angaroc will lose rower: their
ite-force will be gradually drained off. Roll two
dice. If you roll 2-7, the Angaroc reduces your
FOWER by 2 points; if you roll 8-12, however, you
do not affect the Angaroc at all. But if you roll 8--12
three times in succession, you may be able to escape
trom the monster. If you manage to do this, turn to
165

You feel perfectly safe in the hut now. You lie down
on the floor, cover yourself with some sack-cloth,
and fall asleep. But even though you are in an
oasis within the blighted forest, your dreams are
troubled. You seem to see a vast serpent, coiled
around the forest and squeezing. As the forest
contracts, it turns into a mocking face. whose mouth
is Ishtra’s pit and whose laughter becomes the
chilling shriek you heard from the hillside.

You wake up to find that the scream was your own,
but you sean return to your dreams. You are walk-
ing through the forest and a tree blocks your path.
You step aside, but it is still in front of you, though
you did not see it move. Wherever you go, the same
thing happens, until you realize that you will have
to fight it. Immediately, its branches try to throttle
you and you can feel yourself suffocating. The tree
has a rowrR score of 16, Roll two dice. On a roll of
2~7, it has reduced your POWER score by 2; on a roll
of 812, you have reduced its Powe score by 2
Continue until either its or your POWER score
reaches zero. If you deteat the tree, turn to 23; if it
defeats you, turn to 287.

8
Will you cast a spell to fight the Weevil Man (turn to
352) or to avoid a fight (turn to 271)?

85
Without a backward glance, youset off north. There
are few true paths this deep in the forest, but even
when the sun is not visible, there are plenty of signs
to show 2 Wood Elf which way is which. Although
you often have to digress to avoid some obstacle or
other, you keep to a generally northerly direction.

After half a day’s journeying, it is time to rest and
22t. You look for berries while you continue waik-
mg. but there are not many. The presence of more
ight off to your left tells you that there is a glade
there, and you think that it may have shrubs such as
dilberry growing in it. Will you turn left towards the
giade (turn to 142) or carry on northwards (turn
to 4)?

89

Bq

You pass another of the clearings which afflict the
forest like open sores. To your astonishment, there
is a perfectly ordinary, peaceful deer grazing in the
middle of the clearing. The sight is like a breath of
fresh air in a sewer. Will you investigate this re-
markable phenomenon (turn to 240) or not (turn to
146)?

go

The tunnel takes you to a junction. There is a solid
door straight ahead of you; it has no keyhole and
looks too tough to barge down. There is another
passage leading east. You could go along this (turn
to 179) or return to the previous junction and take
the more northerly eastward passage (turn to 132),

gt

Since there are no features to make one direction
more attractive than another, it takes a surprising
amount of will to start walking. But no sooner have
you made that effort of will than things change
drastically. You are standing in a clear spot — the eye
of the storm — while all around you rages the most
terrible storm, as if the gods themselves were at
war, or the sky were trying to separate from the
earth. The storm seems to be pressing in towards
you. Will you mun for your life (turn to 45) or stay
where you are (turn to 164)?
92-94

92

You look around the room; there is not much of
interest, Weapons are stacked in one corner and
hanging on the walls, but there are none which look
any better than your own. Apart from the weapons,
the room is almost bare. The Orcs were sleeping on
chairs against the table; the table has only a wooden
bow! on it. The racks of weapons are numbered in
good military fashion, and even the bow] has the
number 9 burned into it. You can take the bow!, if
you want. As you are leaving, you see a key hanging
behind the door. You can take this too, if you want.
Will you lock the door behind you (tum to 63) or
quickly make your way north (hurn to 274)?

93
You happened to be drawing a breath when the
wind struck, so some of the evil blast enters your
lungs. You feel a chill sap your strength and your
sense of purpose. Lose 1 POWER, 1 SKILL and 2
STAMINA points. Turn to 57-

94
You struggic to change your dream, to get away
from the Angaroc. Roll one die. On 1-3, turn to 52;
on 4—6, turn fo 242.

95-97

95
Deduct 1 Powex point. The spell does not indicate
that the valley contains danger as such, but warns
you of 2 powerful animal aura, which is neutral
rather than hostile. Will you carry on through the
valicy (turn to 282) or retreat out of it and find
another route north-west (turn to 383)?

96

The dart strikes your arm and sticks fast in your
muscle. The fast-acting poison kills you within
seconds. Your adventure is over.

97

Deduct 1 POWER point. You cast a pall of invisibility
around yourself and start to move stealthily around
the Weevil Man. He grunts with surprise and hurls
his hatchet towards the blank area, which is all he
can see of you and the few metres surrounding you.
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 185; if you
are Unlucky, torn te 157-

f
(

<< Jer
a

™ :

Wis:

vat 4

98
68

You come to, spluttering and gasping for air. You
are sasking wet, and you soon realize why, You are
sll in the net, but suspended from a stout branch
ever 2 pool. It is moming; you have been uncon-
scious for a whole night. A dozen Pixies prance
sround you and occasionally let the net — and you -
Stop into the pool!

You protest, of course, and one of the Pixies
approaches. ‘Our master,’ he explains, ‘is the Rid-
ding Reaver. Now, he doesn’t particularly want to
see Ishtra take over the world - thatsyould upset the
balance between Good and Evil — but he doesn’t
want to make it too easy for you. He's not particu-
briy bothered either way! So this is the situation: if
you solve our riddle, we will help you, The answer
to the riddle is a number, and I'll give you a clue: the
mumber is in the words.”

At that, all the Pixies start to dance around the pool,
chanting an inane poem:

There was a young Wood El from Khul,
frussed up in a net like a fool.

The wee Pixies” rhyme

Can save precious time . . .
Or else you'll be dunked in the pool!

99

Each time they come to the last line they suit action
to words and drop you in the water. If you find the
number in the words, turn to the paragraph with
that number, Otherwise, you'll just have to stay
here!

99

You slip down, endlessly down, mto darkness.
Then you seem to be flying through tunnels, at such
a speed that anything you pass is just s blur, until
you reach a grotesque figure. He is huge and flabby;
he squats like some vast pile of slime in the middle
of a cavern, You can see inside his mind, and it
squirms with all the nightmares of the warld; for he
is Morpheus, Ishtra‘s lieutenant, and source of all
bad dreams. Will you attack him (turn te 343) or not
(turn to 285)?

_ =/""9. Cos
.~ —— ~
- : a .
—_ - ~~ ’ . a
a ~ - = “ . . ‘
= “Sa J “=
a ¥
7 a

rm

On the other side of the river, the tunnel continues
west for a while, and is then joined by another
which heads north. Dank moisture from the nearby
mver drips from the roof and down the walls, and
the ground is pitted and puddled. Will you go north

(turn to 327) or west (turn to 130)?

10%

A heron flaps lazily from the pile of bones as you
approach. Now that you are close, you see that
the stags are not alive, but are amazingly lifelike
statues. But your surprise at this discovery is
nothing compared with your astonishment when
one of them speaks inside your mind! The voice is
slow, as if urmused for a long time, and the words are

101

rather old-fashioned: ‘Advance, friend! Be not sur-

prised. Qur maker gave us the power of speech —

yes, and of movement too, should the occasion
require it, We know somewhat of your mission, and
applaud it. We may grant you one boon.” What will
you ask for:

Their company and protection? Turn to74
A srift? Turn to28
Information about how to defeat

Ishtra? Turn to2g8
Information about the best route to

Ishtra’s pit? Turn to225

102-103

102

You manage to resist the petnfying wail of the
Sanshee, and before it reaches you, you have your
weapon ready to fight it. You are fortunate that its
jong imprisonment has made it a less formidable toe
than others of its kind: it is weak, and although it
continues to shriek, the screams have no effect on
you.

SANSHEE

E you win, you could see if the Banshee’s cavern
leads anywhere (turn to 195), or you could retum to
the junction and head east (turn to 388).

SKILL9 STAMINA S

103

Deduct 1 PowrR point. You rise gently into the air
above the Wolves. They are astonished and a bit
tearful, but they soon recover and follow you
wherever you fly. They jump up at you, but you are
just out of reach of their snapping fangs. You have
only delayed the battle, because you will soon have
to return to earth, and your mid-air position is too
unstable for you to do more than prod at the Wolves
with your sword. Turn to 79, but deduct 2 STAMINA
points from two of the Wolves for the slight wounds
you manage to inflict on them.
104-105

104

Although it grieves you to do so, you must defend
yourself against these creatures. if you are to have
some of their food. You fight the many squirrels as 2
single opponent. They are difficult to defeat, be-
cause there are so many and they are So fast: they
dart in at you, bite and then scurry away, like
miniature guerrilla fighters.

SQUIRRELS STAMINAS

If you defeat them, the ground is littered with small
corpses, and the rest of them take to high branches
and hurl squirrel insults at you, But vou find just
enough nuts to satisfy your hunger and keep your
energy up, Turn to 332.

SKILL 7

105

You walk along, with the river on your left. The
river goes underground after a while, but there is
still room to walk beside it, Will you follow the river
underground (turn to 196) or remain overground
(turn to 368)?

106—108

106
The water is clear and refreshingly cool. You may
add 2 stamina points. After drinking, you sit on
the bank and gaze in wonder around you, Some-
what to your , you find that your head is
resting on the soft turf. You drift off to sleep. Turn to
160.

107
The Ore captain halts his soldiers and accosts you.
The Ores stand in an unruly mass and hurl insults at
you: they take you for a Dark Elf and there is no love
lost between the various evil races. The captain asks
you to which clan you belong. You rack your brains
tor the names of Dark Elf clans. Will you answer:

’ ? Turn to155

Tesarath? Turn to. 223

Camcameyar? ‘Turn to8
108

The other Pygmy Ore has recovered enough to puta
Ce ee
you. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 38; if
you are Unlucky, turn to 96.

109

709
If you chose the herbs, these will restore up to 6
STAMINA points; you can use them all af once, orin
two doses. If you chose the net, you can use this to
resolve any one battle; you will ensnare your op-
ponent and be able to avoid the fight, or dispatch
him with ease, but then the magical properties of
the net will disappear and it cannot be re-used. Ii
you chose the antler-hom, you note particularly
that it has twelve branches.

The Pixies chuckle at your choice. You make your
way quickly out of their domain end head north.
You will later find that your dunking in the pool has
damaged your Provisions. Roll one die. If you roll
1-3, one meal’s worth of Provisions have been
ruined; if you roll 4-6, two meals’ worth have been
ruined. Turn to 171-

110-112

110

The only item you can find is a pendant around the
skeleton’s neck. The chain is made of white gold,
and supports a green stone, whose nature you do
not know. The stone is hanging inside the
skelcton’s rib-cage. You can remove the pendant, if
you like. and put it on yourself. Then you can
change your mind and roll away the boulder afterall
(turn to 379), or carry on across the small cavern and
down the continuation of the tunnel (turn to 61),

111

The further west you travel along the creek, the less
of a creek it becomes, and the more of a bog.
Although Wood Elves can tread more lightly than
any other race, even your feet are beginning to sink
into the brown mud, which is covered with an oily
film. To make matters worse, night is beginning to
draw in. Will you plough on through the mire (turn
te 246) or turn south for a while to ayoid it (turn to
284)?

mz

The passage takes you, alter a while, toa door, You
can see nothing through it, and can only hear, from
beyond it, occasional snuffles and snorts. You are
wondering whether to retrace your steps, when you
hear the tramp of marching feet behind you. This
puts you off the idea of going back and, with your
heart in your mouth, you open the door and enter
the room beyond. Turn to 258.
113

113

You find the cook in a foul mood. Everything has
gone wrong for her today: a Dark Elf raiding party
tailed to return from the outside world with fresh
meat; the food from the ice store is taking ages to
thaw; her assistant put too much bat’s blood in the
stew (a crime for which the assistant quickly became
the stew!); and so on. When you walk into the
kitchen, she thinks of a neat solution to her prob-
ems. Her day has been ruined by Dark Elves: why
should a Dark Elf not make things better, by joining
her former assistant in the pot? The cook is a large
hali-human, specially brought from Corda by
ishtra’s spies. She attacks you with a cleaver.

COOK SKILL 6 STAMINA 10

if vou win, you find another door in the south wall
of the kitchen, but you can hear feet coming up the
tunnel towards it. You bar the door. IE will not take
them long to break through it, but in an evil place
like this, the death of the cook is probably not tao
remarkable, and you don’! expect to be pursued.
You return to the dining-hall. Turn to 379.-

114

14

The last stretches of the hill are hard going. The
trees are thinner; scree covers the slope and pro-
vides little or no soil for roots, and little or no safe
footing for a traveller. The trees which line the ridge
are bent into weird shapes as if by a constant west-
erly wind. Eventually, you arrive, panting, at the
crest itself, and you lie down on the ground to
survey the scene below you. The western slope of
the range of hills descends fairly gently into a valley,
where all seems to be peace and harmony. The trees
there seem stili to be clothed in spring green. But
this fresh copse ends with shocking abruptness in
terrain which is unlike anything you have seen
before, awake or in your worst nightmares. You
realize that you are looking out over the blighted
part of the forest, which your dream revealed to
you, It is considerably larger than you thought it
would be: it stretches for kilometres. Turn to 386.

115-117

15
You are now in the monster's throat. You can see
snapping jaws ahead, lined with wicked teeth. You
will have to make a dash for freedom, but the teeth
do not snap regularly. ft will be a matter of
luck. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 210; if
you are Unlucky, turn to 177.

126

The closer you get to Ishtra’s pit - or Ishtra’s mouth,
as you are beginning to call it — the worse the

becomes which has ravaged the forest.
Even the brown and swollen leaves, which had
given the trees some sort of covering, die out, and
you walk silently among the dead shells of once
magnificent oaks and beeches. Turn to 89.

117
You donot have enough rower to change yourself
from being a salamander in your dream. You could
remain in the dream world and continue down the
mountain (turn to 219) or return and enter the
mouth of the volcano (turn to 174); or you could
force yourself to wake up and re-enter the real world
(turn to 3).

118—120

728

Despite its camouflage in the undergrowth, you
spot an ingenious, but primitive, trap. Several
short, sharpened stakes have been tied on to a stick;
if you were to tread on the trigger — a length of
supple wood fying on the ground and covered with
leaf mould — the stakes would spring towards youat
about the height of your chest. You go around the
trap, wondering what type of creature setit. . . and
for whom. Soon, however, the deepening dusk
persuades you to make camp for the night. You
could sleep in a hollow under the roots of a fallen
tree (turn to 335), or you could climb up another vast
tree and camp in the branches (turn to 133).

11g
You walk through the doors and find yourself in 3
passage which very obviously, because of the
steamy smells, leads to the kitchen. You could wait
a while in the passage, to convince the Goblins that
you have visited the kitchen, and then return to the
dining-hall (turn to 221), or you could enter the
kitchen through a door straight ahead of you (tur
to 233).

120
For a while, nothing happens. Then you see the
most bizarre and unrealistic series of images. You
are standing in the middle of a sort of ravine, whose
Sides are made wut of . - . well, you suppose they
are buildings of some sort, since many weirdly
dressed humans are coming and going through the

i120

doors. But you cannot even begin to guess what
stone the buildings are made of; they are filled with
unnatural lights as well, but the worst thing is that
they tower to the sky and threaten to fall on every-
one’s heads. You shout to the strange people to run,
but it soon becomes clear that they can neither sve
nor hear you. You can see, but cannot hear; you are
surrounded by rash, but it all takes place in eerie
silence.

Then a new horror becomes apparent. The smooth
path you are standing on is suddenly filled by
dozens of monsters. They are made of metal and
glass, it seems, and move ata terrifying speed. Each
of them has atleast one of the humans in it, who are
obviously prisoners, and often have grim, tortured
expressions on their faces.

You wake up from this nightmare: you can bear no
more of it. Is this some other world altogether, or is
this to be the future of Titan? Is the earth to be
controlled by metal monsters, with humans for
slaves? And where were Elves, Dwarfs and other
races? You find tears springing to your eyes in fear
for your race, for you know that no Elf could live in
such a place. But now you are awake, you must gel
on with your mission. Turn to 169.

123~123

121

This is a notable victory — but no use at all! As soon
as the Golem felt itself being overcome, it changed
back into an inanimate and immovable quartz door.
Moreover, if you were fighting with your sword
{rather than a two-handed axe), you have notched
and blunted the blade and must reduce your Attack
Strength by 1 for future combats. This only in-
creases your frustration at being unable to get mto
the armoury. You stamp off east down the tunnel.
Turn to 68.

122
The holly bushes are very prickly and may well be
poisonous, but you find that there is enough space
between the lowest branches and the ground for
you to hope to craw! through. You would have to be
lucky to make it unscathed, however. lf you want to
make the attempt, turn to 277; if you change your
mind and avoid this fenced-off area, turn to 321.

123
You come toa set of imposing double doors. Beyond
them you can hear nothing except occasional grunts
and snorts. Will you open the doors and mito
the room (turn to 176), or turn around and walk back
past the junction (turn to 310)?

124-125

i245
The tunnel continues fairly straight, westward into
the hillside. After another few minutes, the source
of the glow becomes clear, when you find yourself

_ gazing down into a natural cavern, which is lit by

————.

the eerie, phosphorescent glow emitted by lichen
clinging to the walls and roof. Some rocks and
stones are scattered on the ground; they too are
covered in the lichen, but the dull stone floor is
completely free of it. The mouth of your tunnel is
about a metre up one wall of the cavern. The cavern
is not large; you could stand up im it, but it would
not take you many paces to cross it. The tunnel
continues on the other side.

You boldly let yourself down into the cavern — and
immediately trip over an obstacle you had not
noticed before, since it was tucked right underneath
your entrance. It is the skeleton of an earlier

_ traveller. The tattered remnants of clothing cling to

the bones, and to judge by the contorted position of
the body, this person died in some pain. One bony
arm is flung out on the ground, and the hand is
trapped beneath a fair-sized boulder, Will you ex-
amine the corpse (turn to 295) or not (turn to 61)?

125

You struggle to throw the foot off your neck and gel
to your feet, You never even see the two-handed axe
descending on your skull. Your missicn is over and
your soul wings its way to join your ancestors in Tir
nan Og.
126-127

126
You have six relevant objects and you know from
your dreams that it takes six objects in a circle, with
yourself in the centre as the seventh, to create «
Space within which Evil cannot exist. You have also
known from the start of your adventure that Ishtre
cannot be defeated by normal means. He is
approaching; you have one chance to make an
arrangement of the objects which will overcome
him. The antler-horn and the crystal ball represent
wind; the elder branch and the amber represent fire
or light; the ice and the bow! represent water. Will
you arrange the objects so that fire is next to fire,
water to water, wind to wind (tum to 367), or so that
fire is opposite fire, water opposite water, wind
opposite wind (turn to 173)?

127

Since the Bloodhawk is attacking from above. 2 wall
of fire may not frighten it off. You decide to hurl «
fireball at it, but you will have to be very accurate.
Roll two dice. If the number rolled is equal to or
greater than your SKILL, you miss: turn fo 29 te fight
the huge predator. If the number rolled is less than
your SK11.1, you succeed in hitting the creature, and
it crashes to the ground, feathers aflame. For a
moment itresembles nothing so much as a Phoenix,
but the Bloodhawk is dying, not being born from the
flames, You can safely continue on your way. Turn

to 332. |

128-129

128

ishtva bursts into your field of vision with the sound
ofa thunderbolt. He is delighted to see you wearing
the green pendant. He crosses over to you, in
appearance a goat-headed crocodile, and raises one
scaly daw to your head. You find you cannot resist,
@s he sucks your PowER from you, and refills you
woth his own corruption. The Undead Elf will serve
him well in his army of conquest.

129
The only thing you can do now is step out into the

®pen, still proclaiming your friendly intentions. But
by now these frightened travellers, lost in a strange
forest, where every shadow seems to threaten, have
had time to imagine all sorts of traps you might be
setting for them. Even though, when they see that
you are alone, they realize that you mean them no
term, nevertheless they remain sullen and uncom-
munuicative. All you can find out is that they have
travelled for many months, from a city in the west
called Kalagar, and are trying to get to Arion. It
appears that 2 prophet in Kalagar, called Vanator,
foretold doom for the world, and these peuple are
tying to escape it. You keep to yourself the news
that their prophet might not be far wrong, if Ishtra
hes his demonic way. You are able to teach them a
few pointers of woodcraft, which should help them
t tell west from east, even when the sun is not
shining; but it is not clear that they are grateful, or
even listening. You leave them and continue your
westward journey. Turn to 298.
130

130

ishtra and his commanders delight in genetic ex-
ceriments. Some fime ago, they created a new
monster, which they called the Prowler. The species
Ss now self-sufficient - and you have stumbled upon
their breeding-pens, in a dead-end cavern. It is
difficult to tell what creatures Prowlers were cross-
ored from: there might be some Wolf in them, since
they are covered in fur and slink like Wolves; but
they go on two legs like humanoids, their bodies
have 2 narrow waist lke a wasp’s, and you can see
that Prowler young are larvae. You see a great
enithing mass of these larvae and dread the day
when they will be let loose on the surface of Titan.
Sut luckily for rou, there are only two which have
emerged from their pods and are fairly full grown,
The breeding-pens are not enclosed, because the
instinct of any Prowler is to stav close to the larvae
and protect them until they have hatched; more-
over, this corner of the tunnels is cut ot! by the river
which flows near by. The Prowlers attack you with
ferocity, slashing you with their claws, to keep vou
fom the grubs. In the narrow tunnel, you can fight
Dem one ata ime.

SKIL! STAMINA
First PROWLER 8 7
Second PROWLER ” 6

i you win, will you carry out the vile duty of
dJestroving as many of the grubs as vou can (burn to

276), or walk back up the tunnel and turn north
131

a3t

The rustling of the bracken, as small night-time
creatures negotiate its stems, influences your
dream. In your dream the rustling sound becomes
the wind, as it rushes over a vast plain, with its
endless acres of dry grass. You see yourself walking
through the grass, which comes up to your thighs:
you do not know where you are going, but a grow-
ing feeling of doom convinces von that it is not
towards good!

All at once, you find yourself falling forwards. This
happens in agonizingly slow motion, and you know
that two sturdy stalks of grass will pierce your eves
and blind you to the light of this world. If your
POWER score is 14 Or More, turn to 49; otherwise,
him to 20.

132-133

es
You walk boldly along the well-lit passage, trying to
look as though you belonged here. You pass the
narrow tunnel to your right which you came along
before. The patrol of Goblins that you saw then is
long gone. You meet a couple of Troglodytes, but
have no difficulty in bluffing your way past these
pea-brains. The passage ends at a junction where
you could turn right (turn to 123) or left (turn to 310).

133
On your way up the tree, a branch breaks when you
step on it and you fall to the ground. Roll one die.
On 1-3, Fou were not high up and your fall only
winds you: reduce your STAMINA by 1 point. On
¢-6, you were high enough up for the fall to be
nasty: reduce your STAMINA by 4 for a couple of
cracked ribs. You take this to be an omen and decide
to sleep among the roats of the old fallen tree. Turn

to 335.
134-136

1347
The creature speeds off. You cannot tell what dire-
tion it takes, since there is no sun in this dream
world. After some time fan hour? a year’), you
sensc that the beast is about to dive under the sand
Will vou remain on its back (turn to 391) or jump off
before it dives (turn ta 147)?

135

You take only one step towards the ancient pile of
deer bones. Your intention alone is enough to gab
vanize the two stags into action. With a silent cry of
“Desecration!’, they drive you efforticssly from the
place. You lose 4 sTAmM1Na points for the injures
they inflict, and 1 LUCK point for your foolish ac
tion, You pass through the rest of the valley and
continue on your way. Turn to 383.

136
Roll one die. if you rofl 1~4, turn to 220; if you roll
5—6, turn to 316.

137-139

137
Howling hornbly, the Snow Ghost pummels you to
the ground with frozen fists. You wake up with a
start, sit up and crack your head on a thick root of
the tree which is sheltering you: lose 1 STAMINA
point. Restore your POWEK score to what it was
defore the illusory combat took place. Turn to 372.

138

You gingerly push away the boulder with your feet,
so that no lichen touches any bare skin. No sooner
has the rock cleared the hand than all the light of the
ichen around the cavern seems to converge on a
ring the skeleton is wearing on that hand. The light
then flashes from the ring to the nt around
your neck. The green stone burns icy-cold through
your body and finds its way unerringly to your
heart. Once your flesh has rotted, there will be two
skeletons on the floor of the cavern.

1394
A stately woman, dressed in robes which constantly
change colour, greets you in the garden. She smiles
upon you, introduces herself as Galana, goddess of
plants and fertility, and gives you a message: “This
garden may be the last haven you find, but you
must persevere, even when all seems hopeless.
There are two ways you may defeat Ishtra; both
require considerable PowER, but one also requires
physical artefacts to channel your rower. You de-
cide.” You try to ask her what she means, but she is
14°

gone. Add 1 Luck and 1 PowER point, and turn to
393.

140
As soon as you saw the Banshee, you got your

weapon ready to fight. But you are unable to resist
its petrifying wail: you are temporarily frozen with
fear, and the monster gouges you with its claws
Reduce your STAMINA by 2 points. The shock of the
pain jolts you out of the trance and you are now
ready to fight it. You are fortunate that its long
imprisonment has made ita less formidable foe than
others of its kind: it is weak, and although it cm-
tinues to shriek, the screams have no effect on you.

BANSHEE

If you win, you could see if the Banshee’s cavern
leads anywhere (turn to 195), or you could return to
the junction and head east (turn to 388).

SKILL 9 STAMINA S5

141

Sure enough, there are bilberries in the glade. You
aiso find edible toadstools, wild parsnips and the
tern called Skunkbear’s Tongue, which Elves value
2s both nutritious and refreshing. There is only just
enough food to make a single meal for you, how-
ever. It seems that animals have already removed
such of it— more than they could eat, you think. It
looks as though they have been storing * food, which
% unusual for this time of year. It occurs to you that
they probably know instinctively that some peril is
near by, and are preparing for it. After your meal,
you decide to rest against a log. Will you stay awake
tum to 363) or let yourself drift into the dream
world (turn to 203)?
142-143

142
The Drake circles the blasted landscape below for

ages. You see cities burning, people of all races
being slaughtered; fabulous, evil creatures battle for
dominion over some parcel offand. In short, there is
no place of safety in this dream world, since it
coexists with the evil of Ishtra’s stronghold. But the
Drake has to obey your command. It flies up into the
sky, unimaginably high, and then plummets down
to the ground. You screamatit to stop, but the wind
whips the sound of your voice away almost before
you've spoken. The Drake has summoned all its
power to do you this service. You reach the ground
— but there is no sickening thud, no oblivion. The
Drake has taken you out of the dream world, since it
cannot find safety for you within it. However, you
know what it does not, that there is little safety in
the real world either. You find yourself ina tunnel in
ishtra’s domain; by the light of the torches blazing
on the walls, you see a tiny lizard scurry inte a crack
in the ground. You trudge along the tunnel, head-
ing north, as far as you can tell. Turn to 188.

143
The tunnel narrows considerably the further along

it you go, and it is hard to keep your balance in the
dark on the rough, unfinished floor. i you are
carrying a two-handed axe, turn to 16; otherwise,
turn fo 381.
144-146

144
You are standing alone on the plain; you know, in
your dream, that it has taken you years to get here.
The plain stretches without features to the horizon
in all directions, Will you wait to see what happens
(turn to 341), or start walking (turn to g1)?

145
When you have recovered, you head north up the
passage. You pass 2 well-lit comdor on your left,
but your senses tell you tha! north is the way to
Ishtra. Turn t) 310.

146

Late in the afternoon, you are resting against the
trunk of a rotten tree. You are convinced that you
are close to your goal. The feeling of oppression
weighs down on you like a physical force, but you
have more direct evidence than that. Chaos is begin-
ning to taint the forest. You have seen a two-headed
weasel scurrying through the putrid leaf mould;
you have seen ivy with a trunk as thick as an ancient
oak; and at one point the ground itself heaved
underneath you - you didn’t wait to see what
caused it!

147

Suddenly the tree you are leaning against gapes and
ties to engulf you; but you leap away from it in
ame. That puts paid to your plan of resting before
the final push towards your goal: you are not going
% stop for anything now. You pick up your back-
pack ... and freeze! A guttural call disturbed a
raven from its branch, and the call was answered by
another behind you ~ and another, and another!
You are surrounded, and you don't yet know by
what or whom. If you have a companion, turn to

147
You leap on to the hard, hot sand. To your surprise,

the creature . ft takes it a fair distance to do
this, but then it turns round and comes back to-
wards you- It lifts its huge head out of the desert
sand and bears down on you. Even from a distance,
you s€e its teeth and pig-like eyes, sur-
rounded by folds of leathery skin. You cannot tear
your gaze away from the eves. The creature opens
ms massive maw to swallow you whole; you are
footed to the spot and know that you are about
to die. They say that scenes from your life flash
defore your eyes when you die, but the images
which follow are alien. Turn to 371.
148-150

148
Deduct 1 POWER point. You detect same danger
ahead, but your impression is that itis notalive—not
even in the sense that plants are alive. Itis the sort of
impersonal danger of an avalanche, for instance.
Will you continue your westward journey, but
cautiously (turn to 187}, or will you turn back to the
north to avoid whatever the danger is (turn to 227)?

149
A vast tidal wave surges out of the sea and sweeps
you mercilessly back in the direction you came
from. You are terrified by the might of this new
thing, the sea. Lose 1 PowER point. The tidal wave
deposits you, none too gently, on a river-bank. Turn

150
In the mid-morning of this further day of travel
through Affen Forest, vou enter a valley, formed by
sheer crags towering on cither side. The tops of the
crags are wooded, but there are fewer trees on the
floor of the valley. As soon as you enter it, you feel
that this is a special spot — but special to whom, and
for what reason, you do not know. Will you cast 2
Finding speil, to see what that tells you (turn to 95),
or will you preserve your POWER and either con-
tinue through the valley (turn to 282) or retreat out
ofit and find another route north-west (turn to 383}?

151

151
You think that the trick in the Sphinx's words is
that, since it is facing you, what is left from its point
of view is night from yours, so you approach the
tunnel to your right. The portcullis rises, you step
the tunnel. You are safe, for the moment. There is
the tramp of marching feet up ahead, but the sound
S getting fainter. You will not have to test your
The tunnel ends at a large well-lit cavern; there are
several other tunnels leading off the cavern. While
you wait and watch, a company of Orcs emerges
from one tunnel, crosses the cavern and goes down

2nother tunnel. You watch for ten more minutes,

and two more patrols pass through the cavern.
There is a large pile of ancient bones close to one
wall of the cavern. Will you go over to them (turn to

27) or carry on watching (turn to 304)?
13 153-155

152

You realize that the man is a dangerous lunatic.
driven to insanity by the Evil surrounding him in
the forest. But something in the power of your voice
and your presence pierces the veil of madness in his
mind and fans the spark of humanity deep inside
him. You see a shift in his eves, as if he were now
looking at reality, not at some crazy image of it. He
wordlessly returns your sword to you, then goes
and fumbles in a corner of the hut.

When he comes back, he offers you his most prized
possession ~ a small piece of amber. Trapped inside
the amber is a female glow-worm, whose phos-
phorescent light is still shining, despite the millen-
nia it must have spent in the fossil resin. You
gravely accept the gift. Before putting it in your
backpack, you inspect the amber cube and see thatit
has the number 20 engraved in fine, spidery runes

on one of its faces.

The Wild Man next invites you to spend the night in
his humble abode. Will vou accept or not? If you
accept, turn to 86; if you do not, vou bid him a
cautious farewell and make your way safely back
through the hollies (turn to 321).

153

You hesitate to strike a blow against your family and
ends. But these are not really your family and
and the serpentine, dream-spawned cat
mks its fangs into you. Lose 1 POWER pvint and
to 231.

154
You cast a pall of invisibility around yourself and
out of the clearing before the Bloodhawk’s
Momentum caries it within the field of invisibility.
you are safely among the trees, you continue
Serthwards. Turn to 332.

155

You are right that this is the name of a Dark Elf clan,
t unfortunately for you this clan has not sent
oops to aid Ishtra. Moreover, you are not wearing
Se insignia of this clan. You are surrounded by
Orcs, so there is no point in becoming invisible: they
still know where your body is. Your disguise
S penetrated, and you are executed on the spot asa
‘py. Your adventure is over.

156

156

The tunnel takes you straight to Ishtra’s dungeons.
The vile gaoler, whose job it is to guard the cells,
resents your intrusion. Nobody comes here alone,
mot even an ally, unless they are asking for trouble,
Seikara will try to pummel you unconscious, and
then lock you up with her other unfortunate wards,
until she has decided which one to have for break-
fast. Shikara is a mutant Ogre; her mutation is her
tick, scaly skin, which takes only « STAMINA point
oft injury. This is why she does not especially fear
weapons, and uses her fists against all opponents,
however they are armed. You had better teach her
t respect cold steel!

SHIKARA SKILL 8 STAMINA §

i you win, a peek through the grilles in the floor
convinces you that none of the prisoners are worth
fevcing: they would stab you in the back rather than
assist you. You return to the last junction and turn
Sight. Tum to 73.

es
’ es
at
veh?

revert sabe
*
t

€,
a

Nei se

trome Be

157-158

157
The hatchet strikes your arm: deduct z sTAMINA
points. You quickly make your way out of the
Weevil Man's domain. Turn to 308.

158
The ground in the clearing is surprisingly firm
underfoot, but you soon discover the reason why.
Much of the slime of the rotting trees has been
gathered by a Slime Monster to itself. This monster
now rises from the ground, and you will have to
fight it to cross the clearing. It resembles a massive,
loathsome earth-worm, but one equipped with
vicious teeth.

SLIME MONSTER
If you win, turn to 6,

SKILL 7

STAMINA i3

159-161

You find yourself perched precariously on the back
of a huge winged serpent, a Drake, which is flying
rough the air. ff your power score is 18 or more,
turn to 260; otherwise, turn to 283.

160

ih your dream, the fairy folk who tend this en-
chanted garden appear to you. They tell you that
they are the secret children of Galana, goddess of
pants and fertility. They dance and teach you many
things about plants that even the Wood Elves do not
snow. Finally, they invite you to stay with them, to
combat Evil by tending their Garden of Good. Itisa
Sweet temptation, especially to a Wood EIf. Roll one
Ge. If vou roll 1-5, turn to 31; if you roll 6, turn to
296.

164
You tumble into the water and are swept down-
stream. Whether you drown before or after being
eaten by the carnivorous fish of the river is
erelevant to the future of Titan-
162-163

162
You look in the Weevil Man's pack to see if you
add to your store of Provisions, but the crawling,
maggoty contents make your stomach heave. Y
may take the hatchet, however, if you want to. ¥
then resume your westward journey.

The moming passes without much incident,
you notice how the further west you travel,
more cautious the forest wildlife becomes of an
intrusion — even that of a Wood Elf, who is normally
considered to be just another denizen of the forest.
This gives you confidence that you are heading i
the right direction. Turn to 383.

163
in real life, the windpipe is matched by a
tunnel. Your sleep-walking body is unable to
for itself in the rough tunnel. It falls; you wake
and become visible again. Turn to 143.

164-165

While you watch in amazement from the clear spot,
the chaos of the storm subsides a bit and you begin
to be able to make out certain distinct features.
Arrayed from right to left in front of you are three
types of storm: lightning flashes on your half-right,
rain lashes down directly in front of you, and an
immense hurricane is boiling up to your half-left.
You spin around to find exactly the same arrange-
ment. While you look on in awe, a feeling of great
calm descends on you, but it is the calm of power
waiting to be unleashed, not the calm of sloth. At
the same time you know, as if a voice had spoken
inside you, that the eye of the storm is formed by
wind, water and fire in this way. Gain 2 POWER
points and turn to 253.

165

You still have the power to decide that you have
had of being a salamander. You change
back into a Wood Elf and continue through the
Gream world, down the mountainside. At the bot-
tom of the mountain, however, you meet a river of
molten lava. You wish you were a salamander
again, bul you cannot change back. The river is
wide, but in the dream world many strange things
are possible, and you may he able to leap across. Test
your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 190; if you are
Unlucky, turn te 62.
166-168

166

You realize too late that, for all his lndicrous antics,
the man is a dangerous lunatic, driven toinsanity by
the Evil surrounding him in the forest. He picks
himself up off the floor, wipes the tears of meri
ment from his eyes — and lops off your arm at the
shoulder with his axe. You collapse unconscious
and will never recover,

167
If your POWER score is 22 or more, turn to 201;
otherwise, turn to 292.

168
If your POWER score is 18 or more, turn to 242;
otherwise, turn to 94.

169-170

169

You take stock of your situation. When you think
back over the last part of yesterday, it occurs lo you
that you noticed no increase im the strange be-
haviour of the forest animals while you travelled
north. This makes you think that, while you may be
ne further away from Ishtra’s pit, which is causing
their disturbance, you are probably no closer either,
Lake Nekros still lies to the east, so you must choose
between heading west (turn to 10) or south-west

(turn to 366).

170

The Goblin in the rear of the squad turns round and
sees you. He thinks you are a Dark Elf, of course, so
he doesn’t raise the alarm; but it looks as though he
is about to call out some typical Goblin insult, which
would stil attract unwelcome attention. You make
mysterious signs to him to be quiet and stay where
he is, until his curiosity is aroused. The rest of the
platoon go on ahead and turn right at a junction.
When you catch up with the lone Goblin, will you
fight him (turn to 77) or not (turn to 2}?
=

4,
: .
a
. -
>
-

i,

ik

a

5

oo" a,

sil
ay

*

] —

fii

e
it

NTE

|

171-172

«71
Not long after you have turned north, you are set
upon by a ferocious Arctolyce. These dangerous
creatures, which are native to the more remote parts
of Titan, resemble a cross between a wolf and a bear.
They have long snouts like a wolf, and are equally
mobile on two legs or four. Their teeth are so
vicious, and jaws so strong, thata Khulian term fora
gin-trap is “Arctolyce’s mouth’. Their fur is highly
prized by those who can afford the considerable
price hunters charge, in view of the risks they take
to acquire such pelts. In short, this beast bounding
towards you through the undergrowth is not to be
taken lightly
ARCTOLYCE SKILL 9 STAMINA 16
The impetus of the charging monster is such that,
even if you cast a Protect spell, it will end up within
the circle of invisibility, However, you may reduce
its STAMINA by 4 points if you care to spend 1 point
of FoweER on either 4 Fire or a Weaken spell. If you
win, turn to 383.

172
You have to decide about what direction to take.
You know from your experiences yesterday that
west is roughly the right direction, so you must
choose between north-west (turn to 150) or south-
west (turn to 83).
173
if your POWER score is now more than it was at the
start of your adventure, turn to 234; otherwise, turn
to 367.

174

You scramble down the inside of the volcano. Sul-
phurous smoke either trickles from cracks in the
Tock or is in jets. Your salamander self
revels in the situation, You go down and further
down, until you are clinging, in true lizard fashion,
face down on a sheer rock, only a few metres above
a bubbling pool of lava. Your skin spontaneously
ignites (gain 1 PowER point). You let yourself go
into the lava, and in your dream it seems that you
fall for an eternity.

Instead of landing in a deep pool, however, itis asif
you break through a thin veil of fire and end up on
cool, solid rock. When you look up, you can see the
lava hanging mysteriously above you; it secthes
turbulently, like storm clouds moving in the wind
and lit by the glow of an evening sun. This recollec
tion of normal life jerks you back to being an Elf
again. You explore the rocky cavern, with its mys-
terious and disturbing ceiling, and find a tunnel. It
leads you straight into a different dream world.
Turn to 80.

175-176

175
At the moment the wind struck, you were for-
tunately breathing out, so none of the evil blast
entered your lungs. Turn to 57.

176

You find yourself in a dining-hall. Most of the tables
are unoccupied, but it is the turn of a platoon of
Goblins to eat, and they are gobbling some vile mess
at one of the tables. There is another set of doors
opposite you, and a smaller dawr in the wall to your
nght. One of the Goblins — the leader of the squad,
to judge by his size — gets up, wipes a hand across
his greasy mouth, and demands to know your
Dusiness. Since you are dressed as a Dark Elf, you
decide to try a bluff; you could not hope to defeat a
dozen Goblins in battle. Will you say that you are on
your way to the kitchen (turn to 299) or coming from
the kitchen (turn to 30)?

177-178

1977
In your dream, the jaw clenches tightly on your —
body; jagged teeth seem to rip your flesh. You wake -

up with a jerk. Lose 2 POWER points. You find
yourself in a tunnel in Ishira’s underground for-
tress. There is nothing behind you — no monster,
real or imagined. You trudge west down the tunnel.
Turn to 288.

178

The day remains fine and your spints begin to
lighten as you continue south. You almost begin to
think that you can succeed in your mission. Night-
time finds you resting securely in the hollow of a
huge oak tree, which was blasted Jong ago by
That night you are visited in a dream by an unfam-
iliar figure. He is an old human, whose lined face
speaks of wisdom and humour. He emerges from 2
tall, white tower on the edge of a forest not unlike
Affen Forest, You know, however, that he comes
from a land far away. He tells you that he is 2 friend
of your distant cousins in. . . the name is strange to
you. It sounds like “Allansia’.

179-180

He goes on: ‘Your mission is vital; you must not fail.
Set you must use vour senses. Have you noticed
any change in life in the forest so far during your
journey? Yet do you not think that the threat of
ishtra’ — the old man spits out the name with venom
—‘would make some changes in the forest?’ The old
man is starting to fade. It is clear that he has ex-
hausted himself to bring you this message. His final
words trail off intosilence: ‘Thinkon my words . . .'

in the morning you do just that, and you decide that
she old man ~ what did he say his name was? Yaz—
— was telling you to change direc-
Son. “Will you go west (turn to 300) or north-west
(turn to 18)?
The passage takes you to a crossroads which you
recognize. To your left is the narrow, unlit tunnel
you took before, after coming out of the tunnel
which is now to your right. Lose 1 LUCK point for
walking around in circles. You can now either head
directly east (turn to 122) or go back through the
narrow, unlit tunnel and turn east along the more
northerly passage (turn to 315).

180
You suddenly break off from the fight and sprint
down the tunnel to the east. As you suspected, the
Golem does not pursue you: its job is to guard the
atTmoury, and it is not conditioned to leave its post.
You continue unmolested down the tunnel. Turn to
65.
181-182

1h

You soon find a suitable cave. You can see far
enough in to tell that it ts not occupied (at least, not
by anything visible), but there are also signs that it
has been recently used by some animal. Gnawed
bones litter the ground, and there is a lingering, but
unfamiliar, animal smell. Will you spend the night
in this cave (turn to 357) or look elsewhere (turn to
261)?

182

You gingerly push away the boulder with your feet,
so that no lichen touches any bare skin. As soon as
the rock dears the hand, all the light from the lichen
around the cavern seems to on a ring the
skeleton is wearing on that hand_ The light then
flashes from the ring to a green stone, which is
hanging on a pendant around the skeleton’s neck.
You had not noticed this before, since it is hanging
inside the skeleton’s nb-age and you were intent
on the rock. fo your horror, the skeleton jumps to
its feet. It immediately starts to wield the light from
its ring as a weapon: every time you lose an Attack
Round, you have been burned by the ring’s icy-cold
flame.

SKELETON SPIRIT SKILLS

If you win, the skeleton collapses back to the
ground, but you have only temporarily doused its
evil ight. You dare not touch the pendant or the
ring, so you roll the rock back over the skeleton’s
hand and carry on down the tunnel. Turn to é1.

STAMINA 6

183

183

As you walk through groves of oaks and
beeches, whose former glory has given way to the
s=omination of brown, swollen leaves or to death,
wou ask Eric if he knows anything about Ishtra’‘s
amderground stronghold. His conversation is still
erational at times, and is punctuated by rambling
tales of irrelevant laughter, but you do glean one

_ Seportant piece of information.

An Orc told hirn — when tortured — that Ishtra had
*ppointed a lieutenant. This monster is Morpheus,
2 vast mass of slime who is the source of all night-
meres. He can affect the real world only indirectly,
oy means of nightmares; and he is visible only in the
dream world. He surrounds Ishira with a cloak of
mpenetrable darkness, unless he can be defeated.

| But he cannot be approached exceptin a dream, and

must be weakened, not killed, to gain access to
ishtra. since if a dreamer were to kill the source of
ais dream, he would greatly endanger himself. Gain
2 LUCK points for this vital information. Turn to 89.

184-185

1384

There are few N’yadach remaining on Titan, but
Shira has recruited some of these cave-dwelling,
hemanoid creatures, weaned them from their re-
cusive ways and revived their former aggression.
You find yaurself suddenly face to face with two of
them; they are taken by surprise and instinctively
Stack. Their cat-like eves arejustas good as yours in
Se dark.

They attack you simultaneously. Each Attack
Round, choose which one you are fighting, and
conduct the combat against him as normal. You
must also roll for the Attack Strength of the other: if
# is higher than yours, he has wounded you; if it is
equal or lower, however, you have not wounded
um, Since you are fighting his comrade.

Yr

_

SKILL STAMINA
frst N° YADACH 6 8
Second N"YADACH 6 7

if you win, turn to 24.

The hatchet misses you and you may carry on with
your journey. Turn ti 308.

186-188

186

There is an ominous quiet in the air, which the

warming croak of a bird does nothing to relieve. Al
of a sudden, the ground fragments, and a chasm
yawns in front of you. You teeter on the edge, but

pull back. You leap the chasm, but another opens

up just where you land. Roll a die six times: if you
roll 1 on the first throw, you have fallen down 2
chasm; if you roll 2 on the second throw, or 3 on the
third, and so on, you have fallen down a chasm. If
you ever fall, turn to 17; if you makeit safely past all
the chasms, turn to 397.

187
Test your Luck, but subtract 2 from the dice roll.
because you are being extra cautious. If you are
Lucky, turn to 118; if you are Unlucky, turn to 81.

188
Before long the tunnel is met by another to the right.
which is well lit and extends in a straight line as far
as you can see. The passage straight ahead, how-
ever, is narrow and dark, and has a sign hangine
from the roof, which reads simply “pancer’. Itisa
new sign, and has obviously been put up by some of
Ishtra’s troops. Will you go straight ahead, if you
have not done so once before (turn to 21), or right
(turn to 388)?

189-191

189
Your sudden appearance surprises the two Orcs
who were carelessly using their guardroom to catch
up on lost sleep. You strike one dead before he has
tually woken up, and turn to face the other.

ORC GUARD SKILL 7 STAMINA 6

For the frst Attack Round only, the Ore has
SKILL 6, because he is still groggy from his nap. If

190
Not only do you clear the river of lava, but you
cansport yourself toa completely different phase of
the dream world. Add 1 rower point and turn to
So.

The rot which has created the clearing has also
Started to affect the trees on the edge of the clearing.
You step on something squelchy, and a foul smell
rises; when you look down, you see that it was a
root, rotted from the inside by the Evil in the soil.
And then . . . was ita trick of the shifting half-light
of this place, or did that root move slightly? No, it
was not your imagination, for now several roots are
squirming towards you, dripping noxious slime.
192

And now they are joined by a dozen more, and now
more. You must hack your way through these roots.
If you have a hatchet, you can add 1 to your Attack
Strength for each round, as you wield your sword in
one hand and the hatchet im the other.

ROOTS

lf you win, you leave a fou) mess behind you and
break away, further from the clearing, where the rot
has not yet warped the trees so much. Turn to 6.

SKILL 56 STAMINA i2

1g2

But you are no longer on a river-bank. You were
about to enter a copse of weeping willows, where
strange fairy lights flickered and beckoned, but
before you got there the scene changed. You see the
village of your home, but all is far from peaceful.
Your family and friends have gone berserk and are
rushing around slashing at trees, animals and one
another. At first you are just watching this scene,
with mounting horror, but then you find yourself
among your folk, trying to restrain them. They turn
on you, and somehow all their bodies merge and
form the head of a fearsome tiger; the arc of its sabre
teeth has the same shape as its sluggish, serpentine
body. Will you fight the monsier (turn to 40) or not
(turn to 153)?

193

The Troll spots you, tells the Ogre, and they unite to
face the common enemy, Both races hate all Elves,
who are as light and graceful as they are ugly and
awkward. You think you could escape, but you dare
not leave them to tell any tales. This is a fight to the
death!

SKILL STAMINA
TROLL g g
OGRE 8 ia)

They both attack you at the same time. Choose
which one vou are fighting and conduct a normal
Attack Round against him. Each Attack Round,
however, you must also roll for the other's Attack
Strength: if itis higher than yours, he has wounded
you; if it is lower or equal, vou have not wounded
him, but merely avoided his blow. If by some
miracle you win, turn to 39. ;
194-195

194
Some of the glutinous poison splashes on to your
hand. As soon as you realize where this drop came
from, you know that you have only a few seconds to
live - unless you hack off your arm with your sword.
At any rate, your adventure is over.

195

You grope around the cavern: it is too dark for even
a Wood Elf to see much. You find no exits from the
cavern, but you do come across foul evidence that
its captors were feeding it - perhaps with their own
troops. You also find the shattered remnants of
furniture, as if in some past time this cavern had
been used fora more civilized purpose. Among the
broken and rotten wood, your hands make contact
with something hard and spherical, which you take;
then you leave the cavern,

You retum to the junction. There is no one around
for the moment, so you tisk an inspection of what
you found, It is a crystal ball, mounted on a black
metal base. On the base are engraved mimes which
read, ‘Ride the winds of time.’ There is also the
number 36 engraved next to the runes. Will you risk

196-197

looking in the ball now (turn to 328), or will you put
itin your pack and walk along the eastward passage
(turn to 388)?

1
The atmosphere undergroand is horribly oppress-
ive. A stale smell rises frien the river and gets
eradually worse as you follow it along. ‘The further
you go, the more you become convinced that there
is something horrible ahead. The dark oppress-
freness starts fo squeeze your lungs. You feel as
helpless as a baby fying alone before a hunting
Sabre-toothed Tiger. Will you run back out of this
tunnel (turn to 272) or persevere (turn to 85)?

197
You step straight into a cunningly disguised pit. The
fall is not far, but there are sharpened stakes on the
Dottom of the pit. Roll one die: the number you roll
is the number of STAMINA points you must deduct.
Then you scramble out and continue on your way.
Turn to 265.

198-200

198

During the night, the branches of the tree creak and
groan, and these noises influence your dream. You
imagine yourself bound securely to a stake, in the
middie of a vast plain, while a Tree Devil advances
mexorably towards you, its stiff joints creaking. its
knobbly hands end in fingernails of sharpened

twigs, which it stretches out towards your face. You
know that it will pierce your eyes and blind you to
the hght of this world Will you struggle to get free

of your bonds (turn to 389) or not (turn to 289)?

199

The water is clear and refreshingly cool It is nice to
wash off the dust of your journey. You may add 2

UCK and 2 STAMINA points. If you were infected
by the spores of the Itching Powder Plant, you may
aiso restore the lost $KILt point. Then you rest on
the bank in the warm sun and drift off to sleep. Turn
to 160.

200

You touch the pustular bark of what might, in this
nightmare, be a warped reflection of a proud red-
wood tree. Immediately, the pustules burst and
spray you with thick liquid, which you know is acid
and poisonous. Your screams echo the agony of the
trees, whose hearts are slowly being eaten out by
the aad. You can stand this nightmare world no
longer and you jerk yourself into wakefulness in the
real world. Lose 1 POWER point and turn to 310,
201-202

20%

Ishtra breaks into your field of vision with a clap like
a thunderbolt; the air around him surges like a
wave. Demon Princes take many forms; you see him
asa goat-headed crocodile which stands on two legs
and has livid green fire playing over the surface of
his body. Despite his fearsome appearance, you
sense that he is afraid of you, and you soon realize
why. Demons are fixed: they cannot grow or
change. Mortals are not fixed, and you have man-
aged to gain more rower than your opponent.
Nevertheless, his Skit is high, because he is at
home in this dream world. He does not pause to
taunt you, but hurls his first fireball at you to start
this battle. With a prayer to your gods in the back of
your mind, you boldly engage him.

ISHTRA SKILL 10 POWER 21

If you win, you have banished Ishtra back to the
Demonic Plane by dint of your rower. It will take
him a long time, in mortal years, to lick his wounds.
You cross back over to the real world. Turn to 400.

202

You fail to get to your feet, and the parasite does
its deadly work. It is one of the more unpleasant
guardians Ishtra has projected into the dream
world. It lodges in your stomach, where it rapidiv
drains your POWER. In the real world, your body
becomes visible just before it drops lifeless to the
floor of a tunnel.

203-204

203

in your dream you visit an unfamiliar place. There is
2 sandy arena, spotted with blood, in which two
heroes are ing to the death. A crowd roars its
appreciation, and the whole show is overseen by a
cruel-looking man, dressed in rich clothes. The
appearance of these humans and humanoids is
Strange to you. You hear the richly garbed man
speak to his . ‘Whoever survives the
Arena of Death will be my champion. Fl have the
iast laugh at that brother of mine!’ You wonder what
this means: is it an Mlusion or a vision of a distant
land?

The harsh sun which bakes the dream arena is
suddenly blotted out by a vast Dragon. But this is
merely the reflection in your dream of the shadow
cast by the Giant Bloodhawk which is swooping
down on your sleeping body. The pain of its talons
nipping your thigh jerks you back to wakefulness.
Deduct 1 skit and 2 STAMINA points. By the time
you have drawn your sword, it is swooping down
on you again, and you have no time to cast a spell.
Turn to 29 to fight the monster.

204
Roll one die. If you roll 1-3, turn to 388; if you roll
4-6, turn to 170.
205-206

2054
You have survived, against the odds. Add 2 Powers
points and 2 LUCK points. The three crones make
some gestures in the air, and you feel the force
which held you in the dream world being released.
At the same time, the crowd, the crones and the
deadly square of the Trial all vanish. Turn to 48.

aaa aaeeciainietee a]

206
The holly bushes, vou find, form a protective pert
meter and come to an end before long. To your
astonishment, you see within the circle of bushes 2
ramshackle hut. There is no sign of life. Will you go
up to the hut (turn to 378) or lie for a while where
you are, under the hollies, and watch (turn to 47)?

207-208

Reduce your POWER score by 1 puint. The Weevil
Man howis in pain when your fireball strikes him.
Turn te 394 to fight him, bet reduce his sTAMINA by
6 points.

208 #

iis extremely strange to come across, in a glade, a
table set with good things to eat. All the fruits of the
esrth are displayed, itseems, and are being enjoyed
dy two men. One of them invites you to join them,
but the other frowns. The first one says, ‘Come, eat.
it will do you good: it will give you rower for your
task.’ But the second says, “Don’t you know that if
you eat in this world, you are bound to it for ever?’
Will you believe the first man, and eat (turn to 270),
or the second, and refuse to eat (turn to 247)?
209-210

ang
You say that your journey too is not unrelated to
their prophet’s visions, but that you must travel
west, not east. They tell you to watch out dunng

your travels for traps which they have set during |

theirs, to keep them supplied with meat. They did
not make all their traps safe before leaving an area,
because there were some that they could not find
again in the dense forest. They tell you that they
marked their traps by bending a sapling over and
tying it to the ground: the trapis always to the north
of the sapling. You thank them, wish them luck and
continue on your way. Turn to 298.

You dash safely through the monster's jaws; it
seems to hetp you on your way by spitting vou out!
Add 1 Ppowez point. You tumble head over heels,
not knowing what to expect next in this crazy dream
world with which Ishtra guards himself. in fact, you
land straight on the back of a large winged serpent.
a Drake, which immediately takes off. If your
POWER score is 18 or more, turn to 260; otherwise,
turn to 283.

211

211
You gingerly push away the boulder with your fect,
so that no lichen touches any bare skin. As soon a3
the rock clears the hand, all the light from the lichen
around the cavern seems to converge on a ring the
skeleton is wearing on that hand. The light then
flashes from the ring to the green stone on the
pendant, and to your horror the skeleton jumps to
its feet. [t immediately starts to wield the light from
its ring as a weapon: every time you lose an Attack
Round, you have been burned by the ring’s icy-cold
flame.

SKELETON SPIRIT

if you win, the skeleton collapses back to the
ground, but you have only temporarily doused its
evil light. You dare not touch the pendant or the
fing, so you roll the rock back over the skelcton’s
hand and carry on down the tunneL Turn to 61.

SKILL 8 STAMINA 6

212

212

You have no choice but to face Ishtra with your
weapon. He bursts into your field of vision with the
sound of a thunderbolt and the smell of corruption.
Demon Princes take many forms; you see him as a
guat-headed crocodile, which stands on two legs
and has livid green fire playing over the surface of
its body. But whatever form a Demon Prince takes,
he cannot be defeated by mortal weapons, as you
have known since the start of your adventure. Ishtra
delights in fire; he blasts you into oblivion with a

single fireball.
Nets y ¥

233

213

You start down the outside of the mountain; the
lava is warm under your scaly feet. An eagle high in
the sky sees the salamander and thinks of its hungry
young. Since this is a dream, you see the scene
briefly from the eagle’s eyes, and for one weird
moment, you are simultaneously an eagle swoop-

ing down to attack and a lizard crawling on ake
ground,

A lizard is almost helpless before an cage; a large
lizard like a salamander is even more helpless, since
it cannot scurry away into the rock. The recent lava
is cracked, but there are no boulders to hide under.
Roll one die. If you roll 1-2, the eagle reduces your
POWER by 2 points; if you roll 3—4, you have mar-
aged to dodge it: if you roll 5-6, you have used the
salamanders ultimate weapon, and sprouted
flames ta scare the eagle away. Continue the combat
until you roll 5-6 twice in succession: the eagle will
then give up and go in search of easier prey_ If you
survive, turn to 278-

244

214

Night is drawing in, and after your recent horrific
experience you feel like resting anyway. You make
camp in the boughs of an ancient tree, since you feel
sefer off the ground, away from marauding crea-
tures of the night. With your mind firmly set on
your quest, and praying te your gods for guidance,
you allow vourself to settle into a deep dreaming
state.

All at once you find yourself on a vast open plain
and you know, in your dream, that it has taken you
measureless years to reach this spot. The terrain is
desert and stretches without features to the horizon
in all directions. Will vou wait to see what happens
(turn to 120) or start walking (turn to 329)?
215-217

215

The Wild Man looks older than he did last night, as
though with the departure of his madness he has
lost some of the will to live. He introduces himself as
Eric Rune-axe. In a cracked voice, he recalls more
pleasant days in the forest, before the coming of the
terror. It turns out that he was once an adventurer
like yourself, in a land far away over the seas; but he
got lost in something called the Maze of Zagor and
gave up his adventuring ways. He travelled here to
retire, as he thought, but now you have rekindled
some of his old spirit, and he wants to come with
you. Will you accept his company (turn to 183), or
gently but firmly refuse, and continuc on your way
alone (turn to 126)?

216
You fly for an eternity over pocked carth, with
steam and foul rising from vents and pol-

luting the air. The ride is exhilarating, despite the
grim landscape below, Add 1 rower point. The
Drake sets you down in the shattered remnants of
what was once a village, and then flies off. Turn to
48.

217
Seon you reach a point where you could either turn
left or carry straight on. You can hear the harsh
laughter of some cruel being up ahead, but to the
left you sense a feeling of terrible doom. This is not
an easy decision to make. Will you turn left (turn to
73) or carry straight on (turn to 156)?

218-220

218
Deduct 1 POWER point. The spell does not indicate
the presence of any danger up the tunnel; perhaps
there is none, or perhaps it is too far away for the
Spell to detect. A! any rate, you enter the narrow
mouth of the tunnel. Turn to 279.

219
At the foot of the mountain you meet a river of
molten lava. As a salamander, you have no diffi-
culty in crossing it, but on the other side you change
Seck inte an Elf and enter an entirely different
2spect of the dream world. Add 1 power point and
turn to So.

You find nothing worth keeping among the dust
and debris of the Wild Man’s hut. Since it is now
evening, you decide touse the hutas a refuge for the
maght. Turn to 86.
221-222 223-225
221

Although the Goblins give you curious looks, they
do not suspect you or try to halt you. You do not
want to retrace your steps, so you leave the dining:
hall through the other double doors, in the north
wall. Add 1 tuck point. The doors lead into 2
cormdar which soon brings you to a junction, with
passages heading north and west. You are cm:
vinced that north is the way to go. Turn fo 310.

3

are right that this is the name of a Dark Elf clan,
unfortunately for you this clan has not sent
ps to aid Ishtra. Moreover, you are not wearing
imsignia of this clan. You are surrounded by
‘Orcs, so there is no point im becoming invisible; they
would still know where vour body is. Your disguise
S penetrated, and you are executed on the spotasa
vy. Your adventure is over.

222

You are looking for trees with holes in their trunks,
or for dry, enclosed areas among roots: these are
typical places for squirrels’ stores. You are groping
in the base of an old elm tree when the squirrels
attack, ‘They are unusually vicious: their despere-
tion at the coming of Ishira has whipped them up
into a frenzy of protectiveness towards their hoard.
Several leap down from branches on to your back
and neck, while others scamper along the ground to ou leave the parasites behind and soon arrive ata
nip at your legs. If you run away, they will not k: the gullet bears slightly to the left, and a
follow you, but will remain to guard their stores. w windpipe lies straight ahead. The fresh air
Will you run (turn te 275) or fight (turn to 104)? coming down the windpipe is a great relief. Will you
fontinue along the gullet (tum to 115) or try the
windpipe {turn to 163}?

225
“You are already on it,” is the reply. Add 1 tuck
pot, but however much you plead, you cannot
Move the impassive stags to respond any further.
Will you carry on up the valley (turn to 383) or
mvestigate the pile of bones (turn to 135)?

226-227

226

_nfortunately, a couple of Pygmy Orcs are strolling
mong the tunnel which corresponds in the real
world to this nver. Although your physical body
= invisible, it is not immaterial. They are just as
stonished as you when they bump into something
they cannot see. The shock jolts you out of the
dream world and you stand facing these new
enemies. You appear to have broken the nose of one
af them, when you collided; he is clutching his face
and moaning. The other, however, is ready for
Sion, and brandishes a mace. Since you have
sppeared out of nowhere, there is no way that you
sould convince them that you area friendly Dark
Elf; you will have to fight.

PYGMY ORC SKILL 7 STAMINA 7

= you do not defeat the Pygmy Orc within three
Attack Kounds, turn to 208. If you clo, turn to 369.
227
You see no further signs of humanoid life, butaftera
while the ground begins to get bogey. You turn
west, but the going is still very unsound, Although
Wood Elves can tread more lightly than any other
face, even your feet are beginning to sink into the
prown mud. which is covered with an oily film. To
meke matters worse, night is drawing in. Will vou
sough on through the mire (turn to 246) or turn
sack south for a while to avoid it (turn to 284)?

ae:
228-229

228"
You find yourself in the dining-hall. Most of th
tables are empty, but it is the turn of a platoon ¢
Goblins to eat, and they are gobbling some vile me:
at one of the tables. There is another set of doub
doors opposite you, and a smaller door in the wall

your left. One of the Goblins — the leader of the

squad, to judge by his size ~ gets up, wipes a hand:

across his greasy mouth, and demands to k
your business. Since you are dressed as a Dark E
you decide to try a bluff; you could not
defeat a dozen Goblins in battle. Will you say th
you have come to cat, sit at a table and tuck into

food you have brought (turn to 263), or say that you

are taking food to Ishtra (turn to 325)?

229
It soon becomes clear what you are up against. 4
raiding party of six Dark Elves is dosing in on you,
flitting from tree to tree. As soon as you see them

your Wood Elf blood buils. These warped Elves

mock the goodness of the other Elven races; ti
scum deserve to die. Will you stand and fight (
to 257), or run to try to break through their eve
decreasing circle (turn to 336)? ie

—_—
-~ ~
— a

230-231

230
Reduce your POWER score by 1 point. Turn to 394 to
Sght the Weevil Man, but reduce his sTamINna by 4

points.

2314

You find yourself back on theriver-bank, among the
willow trees; the fairy lights still flicker on and off.
You walk through the copse, but it becomes more
than a copse; you lose sight of the river and are lost
smong dense undergrowth. A clinging, claustro-
phobic feeling camps down on your chest. The fairy
aghts have become baneful, yellow eves glinting in
the undergrowth. Your gaze is drawn to one pair of
=yes in perticular, and your eyes lock into these
yellow ones. An unspoken voice seems to suggest,
Quite calmly, that you remain where you are. You
feel inclined to obey Will you give in to this incli-
mat«mn (turn to 371) or press on {turn to 60)?

~~

232-233 234

-human, specially brought from Corda by
‘Bhira’s spies. She attacks you with a cleaver.

COOK SKILL 6 STAMINA 10

@ you win, you find another door in the south wall
@ the kitchen, but vou can hear feet coming up the
fnnel towards it. You bar the door. It will not take
em long to break through it, but in an evil place
Bike this, the death of the cook is probably not too
iarkable and you do not expect to be pursued.
You return to the dining-hall. Turn to 221.

232

The poison fails to make contact with your skin, but
some may have entered your backpack. Test your
Luck again. If you are Unlucky, 2 lots of Provisions
have been ruined; if you are Lucky, you suffer ne
loss: Whatever the outcome, you must now deade
whether to continue north (turn to 15) or veer
somewhat to the west (turn to 52).

233
You find the cook in a foul mood: everything has
gone wrong for her today. A Dark Eif raiding party
failed to return from the outside world with fresh
meat; the food from the ice store is taking ages to
thaw; her assistant put too much bat’s blood in the
stew {a crime for which the assistant quickly became
the stew!); and so on. When you walk into the
kitchen, she thinks of a neat solution to her prob-
lems. Her day has been ruined by Dark Elves: why
should a Dark Elf not make things better, by joining
her former assistant in the pot? The cook is a large

234
You quickly arrange the objects, stand in the centre
and wait. shtra bursts into your field of vision with

2 noise like a thunderbolt and the smell of corrup-
Son. Demon Princes take many forms; you see him
& 2 goat-headed crocodile, which stands on two
es and has livid green fire playing over the surface
ot his body. He shrieks with evil glee when he sees a
puny Elf standing before him, and rushes towards
you in a frenzy of blood-lust. His arm is raised to
Dlast you with a fireball and he is taunting you
fr even thinking to hinder his progress towards
tyranny over Titan.

235

But as soon as he enters the enchanted circle, his
shrieks of glee change to screams of agony. Before

your very eyes, he starts to wither and fade. His

body crumbles into dust, and his loathsome spiriti=

banished to the Demonic Plane from where it came.
You seem to hear howls of frustrated rage receding
into the distance. The six objects explode as if with
the effort they have used to defeat the Demon
Prince. It will take Ishtra a long time, in mortal
years, to lick his wounds. Turn to 400.

235

The crowd parts before you, but the path you take
not of your own choosing, They will let you go only
in one direction, and a solid wall of different beings
blocks off all other routes. You are guided inexor-
ably to a square area within the crowd. In the centre
of the square stands a gallows, and three stern
judges sit beneath it. There is an empty bench in
front of them, and you are obviously meant to sit on
it. You do so. All three judges are ancient crones,
and the central one speaks: ‘Let the Trial of Ghosts
begin” Tur ty 309-

236-237

236
You share with the friendly humans something of
your Elven wood-lore, to help them on their way-
Then, after mutual farewells and wishes of good
tuck, you continue on your way. Turn to 298.

237

You grope around the cavern: it is too dark for even
® Wood Elf to see very much. You find no exits, but
you do come across foul evidence that its captors
were feeding it — perhaps with their own troops.
You also find the shattered remnants of furniture, as
@ in some time past this cavern had been used for a
more civilized purpose. Among the broken and
sotten wood, your hands make contact with some-
thing hard and spherical, which you take. Then you
leave the cavern.
238

You return to the junction. There is no one around
just at the moment, so you misk an inspection of
what you found. It is a crystal ball, mounted on =
black metal base. On the base are engraved runes
which read, ‘Ride the winds of time.” There is alse
the number 30 engraved next to the runes. Will you
risk looking in the ball now (turn to 318), or will you
put it in your pack and take the new south tunnel
(turn to 90) or go back along the well-lit tunnd
which you came down (turn to 132)?

238#
The river continues straight; it is sometimes deep
and sometimes shallow. The journey is mono
tonous and, as often in the dream world, you do not
know how long you have been here. Have you been
walking for a minute or a decade? [hen all at once
the river is gone and you are standing on 2 plateau.
The plateau changes to a smooth expanse of yellow
sand, with the sea glistening to the horizon. Since
you have never seen the sea before — though Bf
legends about Tir nan Og speak of it — you are
troubled. Will you walk into the sea (turn to 75) or
explore the beach (turn ty 149)?

239

239

Before long, you are at the foot of the hills, and you
enter the glade whose spring greenery you admired
tom above. There is no doubt in your mind that this
= an enchanted place, containing the power of
Good. The air is fresh and sweet, small flowers
dapple the sward, and the trees — mainly silver
birches — are filled with trilling birds. You have no
idea whose enchantment the place is under, but you
can guess why it is there — as a bastion against the
Evil of the blasted lands beyond. You revel in the
pleasant atmosphere as you stroll among the trees.
Soon you come to a fair-sized pool, which is fed by a
bubbling brook. Will you drink from the pool (turn
to 106), bathe in it (turn to 199), or avoid any contact
with it (turn to 355)?
240-241

240

What is even more surprising is that when you
@pproach the deer, it does not run away. It merely
@oks up at you and continues munching. But all too
Seon you realize that this is not surprising at all: the
Geer is actually a Shapechanger! As is the way with
@s kind, when you are within range its greed gets
Se better of it and it is revealed in its true, hideous
orm. What you thought was the placid munching
@ the deer tums out to be the monster’s forked
Sengue licking its lips in anticipation! The
Shepechanger hurls itself at you; its wicked claws
@re poised to rake your flesh. If you have a com-
penion, tum to 396; otherwise, turn to 307.

243

You manage to block off your senses and persevere.
The trees become less threatening and more lifeless
~ though that in itself wounds your Wood Elf heart.
Set the closer you get to the pit which is the source
of the blight on the forest, the more you seem to be
wading through a quagmire. It is not just that the
ground is sticky and hard te cross; the air itsclt
seems to squeeze your chest, until your breathing is
laboured and harsh.

242 243-245

Eventually, you come close to the pit. The light has
entirely faded now, and you know you are close
only because of the tangible aura of Evil surround-
ing it. A mocking laugh splits the murky atmos
phere, and a cold, cruel voice speaks to you: ‘Puny
Elf, do you seek to test yourself against me? ! look
forward to our meeting — if you get that far

Then all at once a thicket of impenetrable bushes
springs up all around vou. Wherever vou turn there
is no escape, and the thicket is dosing in on you
Will you use a Fire spell to force a way through (turn
tO 41) or not (turn ta 290)?

243
The Wild Man sees you take your sword. His mood

=nmediately changes from hysterics to cold fury,
anc he launches himself at you. His gleaming axe
Catches a ray of the dying sun, which has somehow
made it through a filthy window.

WILD MAN SKILLS STAMINA 12

= you win, you may decide to take his magnificent
wee, but if you do, you will have to leave Telessa
Behind, since both weapons would weigh you
gown. The man evidently has nothing concealed
=>out his person; his tattered clothes hardly cover
is body. You decide to search the hut. Turn to 136.

244

Test your Luck. you are Lucky, you manage to geta
“Bio on the monster just as it rears fram the sand
_@urn to 134); if you are Uniucky, vou are thrown off
turn to 297).

> ™

245
The patrol passes you by, with no more than the
_@Sual insults and jeers: there is no love lost between
the various evil races. Once they have disappeared
=p the tunnel, you duck down behind the pile of
Sones to quieten your racing heart. Turn to 27.

242
You are able deliberately to alter your dream to get
out of the Angaroc’s sphere of influence. Turn to

377:
246-247

As the dusk gets deeper, you can no longer see
where it is safe to step. You are just considering
whether or not to cast a Levitation spell, when you
trip and fall forward inte the mud. You put out your
hands to cushion your fall, and you sink up to your
elbows into slimy mud. Something wraps a tentacle
around your hands and pulls you deeper, until your
face is pressed into the thick ooze. You suffocate.
Slime Suckers prefer cold meat.

247

You walk on, not knowing whether either man, or
both of them, were lars. As time passes, you feel
more and more sure that you are nearing your gosl
You are walking now among low shrubs, which
glow with unnatural light and ooze blood. Without
warning, the ground beneath you gives way and
you land in an underground tunnel through which
a steaming river flows sluggishly. Turn to 8s.

248-249

248
‘We can add nothing to what you already know,
trom your dreams,’ is the reply. However much you
plead, you cannot move the impassive stags to
respond any further. Will you carry on up the valley
(turn to 383) or investigate the pile of bones (tur to
135)?

249
You cannot block out the sound; itseems to come up
from the ground through the soles of your feet, or to
stem from somewhere inside your own mind. You
try to sing 2 cheerful ditty to drown out the screams,
but the words come out all wrong. You know that
you are nearing your goal and that the terror of your
mghtmares is one of Ishtra’s last defences. You
deliberately cross back into the real world, hoping to
ind brief respite there. Turn to 310.

250-251

250
in your dream, you have been wielding a sword like
Telessa, but one which burns with bright fire. You
refrain from the final scything blow, which would
scatter heus to the winds: since you are dream-
ing, you dare not kill the source of your dream. With
a howl of frustration, Morpheus’s conglomerate
body falls apart. You have temporarily broken the
bonds that hold his nightmare parts together. He
will be rejoined some day: the world will not be nd
of nightmares, but many will sleep more peacefully
tonight,

Victory is yours, and you feel a tremendous surge of
energy, Restore your PowER points to the level they
were at before you entered Morpheus’s cevern. You
now have to decide whether to face ishtra himself in
the dream world or the real world. You can feel his
presence drawing near, and you know thal as a
Demon Prince, who has taken on some form m the
Farthly Plane, he will simultaneously occupy both
worlds. If you choose to meet him in the dream
world, turn to 167; if you choose to meet him in the
real world, turn to 346; if your real-world body is
wearing a green pendant, turn to 128.

251
You Manage to get to your feet, and the parasite
drops to the ground. With mounting disgust, you
make your way further along the cullet. Turn to 224.

252-253

252
The struggle is useless and merely drains you:
Geduct 1 POWER point and tum to gg-

253
You wake up. While you were - you hada
feeling of certainty, invinctbility and knowledge.
Sut when you are fully awake, that feeling is gone;
although you remember the details of the dream,
you are uncertain what it means or what it could
have to do with your quest, You judge from the
might sky that dawn is still a couple of hours away.
Wil you go back to sleep (turn to 341) or resume
your journey (turn to 172)?

254-255

“Sas Se 7
we a

234

Tou acoost 2 Dwarf with a good-humoured face and
ask her what is going on. She opens her mouth to
speak; her lips move, but there js no sound that you
can hear. You bend closer to listen - and a long,
forked tongue shoots out of the Dwarf’s mouth and
wraps itself around your neck! You struggle to
Scape, but it is useless. A dark mist blurs your
ght, and you black out. Lose 1 POWER point.
When you come to, you are propped up ona bench
= front of three stern judges. [he crowd forms a
solid square all around you- All three judges are
ancent crones, and the central one speaks: ‘Let the
trial of Ghosts commence!’ Turn to 309.

255
You arrive outside a room which has a transparent
Goor, made of some quartz. Although the quartz
distorts your view, you can see that the room is an
armoury. It could be worth exploring. Will vou try
the door (turn to 72), or walk on east down the
tunnel (turn to 68)?

256~258

256
The Bloodhawk momentarily falters as your spell
takes effect, but then it continues its dive towards
you, talons outstretched. Turn to 29, but reduce its
STAMINA by 4 points.

257
You do not stand a chance. Your last battle is bloody
and heroic, but you are overwhelmed. There are no
friendly witnesses to tell your kin of the death of
Eldenurin.

258

You find yourself in a dining-hall. Most of the tables
are unoccupied, but it is the turn of a platoon of
Goblins to eat, and they are gobbling some vile mess
at one of the tables. There is 2 door behind you, and
there are also two sets of double doors, one in the
wall to your left and the other in the wall to your

”

259

might. One of the Goblins — the leader of the squad,
to judge by his size — looks up and notices you. He
gets up, wipes a hand across his greasy mouth and
demands to know your business, Since you are
dressed as a Dark FIif, vou decide to try a blurt; you
could not hope to defeat a dozen Goblins in battle.

Wil you say that youare on your way to the kitchen
(turn to 36) or coming from the kitchen (turn fo 30)?

259
After only a few steps in the corrupt forest, you
know that something is wrong. It is not just the
sense of Evil, which you will get used to as you
would to a bad smell which is not noticed after a

while. There is something more ... something

within yourself.
259

You will find that from here on, in your adventure,
you are unable to cast any spells. One of Ishtra’s
defences is to prevent any magic except his own
being effective in his domain. You retain your
rower score, however: there may yet be some use
for it!

As you walk forward, the evil mist which you saw
from the hillside secthes around you, as if urging
you to return, Lightning plays over to your nght; «
tall pine, throttled by ivy which is wriggling even
now, looms in your path. From your survey from
the hillside, you know that this blighted part of the
forest is almost circular in shape, spreading out
from a centre which must be where the entrance lies
_ tolshtra’s underground stronghold. All you have to
do is follow the steady worsening of the blight and
you will reach your goal.

One obstacle at a time, however. You have reached
one of the patches of bare ground, where the trees
have rotted away to nothingness. Will you cruss the
clearing (turn to 158) or walk around it, keeping to
the trees (turn to 191)?

You find that the Drake will obey your commands.
You are not sure that you are ready to face Ishtra yet,
$0 you do not ask it to take you there. But will you
ask it to take you somewhere where you may gain
more POWER (turn to 46) or toa place of safety (turn
& 142)?

261
in the gathering gloom of a cloudy night, you can-
not find anywhere else to rest. Deduct 1 trcK
point. You can either return to the cave {turn to 357)
or journey all night, with occasional fitful naps (turn
%© 390).

262
You wake up to find that the battle was just an
Mlusion. Restore your POWER score to what it was
Sefore the dream combat, and add 1 point for your
victory. Turn to 372.

263-265

263

After a few mouthfuls, you come across the finger of
the cook’s assistant in your stew. You retch and
Tush out of the diming-hall, trying not to vomit. Lose
i STAMINA point. You are followed out of the room
by the harsh laughter of the Goblins, who find your
distress highly amusing. Did you leave by the small
door in the west wall (turn to 54) or by the double
doors in the north wall (turn to 145)?

264
This will do you no good at all. The Drake bucks and
Squirms, and you lose your seat. You fall down
through the air; vou see the ground rushing up te
meet you. But this is only a dream, so you make
yourself land safely in a tree — or almost safely,
because you disturb a Hoatzin from its nest. A
Hoatzin is a mythical bird with a two-metre wing-
span, a vicious berk and claws projecting from its
wing-tips. You cannot change this aspect of the
dream warld, because this is one of the creatures
ishtra has set to guard himself.

The Hoatzin swoops in to the attack. IHhasa POWER
score of 12. Roll two dice. lf you roll 2-7, the Hoatzin
reduces your POWER score by 2; if vou roll B-12, you
reduce its rowER score by 2. Continue the fight
until either its or your POWER score is zero. If you
win, turn to 340; if you lose, turn to 293.

265
You find two possible places to spend the night.
You could make a bed under some bracken im a Hittle

266

Gell (turn to 131), or you could climb up a mighty
eek and make yourself comfortable in the crook of
one of its vast lower branches (turn to 198).

266

When you get close enough to the tower, you can
see what is on top of it, even though the pinnacle
seems to be kilometres above you. It is a dark sickle
moon. While you are looking up, something crashes
into you with extreme force. You have been hit by
2 corpse, which is hanging from the moon by a
long, long rope and is whirling around the circular
tower like some demented puppet. Before your
eyes, the tower shrinks and changes into a gallows;
the corpse stops swinging and junoyps lightly to
the ground: its agility seems the most frightening
thing of all. Its face is now a skull, with its teeth
chattering in anticipation, as it tries to embrace
you in kinship. You struggle to get free, and your
struggles propel you back to the river-bank. Lose
t POWER point and turn to 192.

267-268
267

it seems that the route you have chosen is beset with
dangers. Later in the morning, you meet a Weevil
Man, returning home from hunting. Weevil Men
are mutants which are so misshapen as to resemble
= cross between a beetle and a human. They have
tough natural armour on their backs and tend to
Grop on to all fours to protect themselves. They
were driven long ago from civilized society and the
few remaining members of their species dwell in the
mdden places of the world —such as deep in Affen
Forest! As survivors in the hard world of Titan, they
are far from cowardly fighters. This one drops the
pack he ts carrying and comes warily towards you,
swinging a hatchet in a menacing way. You have
ime to cast a spell, Will you use a point of PoweRin
this way (turn to 87) or not (turn to 394)?

268

When you are about halfway across the creek, you
have one of the most ghastly experiences of your
te. You feel something cold slithering inside your
clothing and fastening itself to your stumach, You
mvoluntarily scream im horror, and your fear is
imcreased by not having the faintest idea what man-
met of creature has attached itself to you. The time it
takes you to wade fo the north side of the creek —
since there is fittle you can do when impeded by the
weter and you want to get out — seems to take for
ever.
269-270

As soon as you reach the bank, you rip open your
shirt and see not one but several Khulian Lampreys
clinging with their suckers on to your flesh. These
camnivorous creatures live both in water and on
land. Now that the initial shock is over, you can feel
the pain as the concerted effort of all their powerful
suckers begins to tear your flesh. You must act
quickly: you have already lost 2 stamina points.
Your only chance is to cast a Weaken spell, and you
will then be able to pluck them from your body.
Once you have done this (remember to deduct :
POWEKK point), turn to 214.

269

You walk through the doors and find yourself in a
passage which very obviously, because of the
steamy smells, leads to the kitchen. You could wait
a while, in order to convince the Goblins that you
have visited the kitchen, and then return to the
dining-hall (turn to 379), or you could enter the
kitchen through a door straight ahead of you (turn
to 113).

270
As soon as you take the first mouthful, you find that
through your mind; you see your body tumbling in
slow motion through a vortex. When things scitie
down, you find that it was the background, not your
body, which was moving. You have simply crossed
over, in a particularly dizzy fashion, to the real
world. Turn to 258.

271-273

271
You feel somewhat sorry for this mutant outcast,
whose ancestors were exiled by the barbarous race
of humans. Will you avoid a confrontation by using
2 Protect spell (turn to 97), an llusion spell (turn to
71) or a Levitation spell (turn to 37)?

272
You reach the outside air and draw great breaths
Seep into your lungs. Lose 1 rower point for your
Sight. You continue on your way overground. Turn
= 368.

—_—i >
~

273
You realize that a wall of fire may only delay the
battle: the Wolves could just wait until the fire dies
sown, and you cannot afford to go on and on
making fire. So you decide to reduce the odds. You
shoot a fireball at the strongest Wolf (deduct 1
POWER point). It runs away, badly burned, yelping,
end with the charred remains of its tail between its
legs. When the other two Wolves have recovered
trom their surprise, they leap at you. By sammon-
ing up your innate nimbleness as a Wood Elf, you

can fight them one ata time.

SKILL STAMINA
First WOLF 7 6
Second WOLF 6 6

i you win, turn to 314.
274-277

274
You arrive at a crossroads. The stone of the tunnels
glistens damply in the torchlight. A main passage
runs to night and left, and there is also a tunnel
straight ahead, though it is narrow and unlit. Will
you go left (turn to 288), night (turn to 122) or
straight ahead {turn to 143)?

275
You carry on northwards, but find not quite enough
food to sustain you. Deduct 1 sTAMINA point and
turn to 332. :

270

You slash and hack with your weapon, until you can
take no more; your arms are tired and the ground
underfoot is slippery and slimy. Add 1 LUCK point
You then return to the junction and head north.
Turn to 317.

277

You start te wrigple through, pressing yourself into
the ground, Your backpack tends to snag on the
branches, but you leave it on your back as protec-

tion. Test your Luck. Lf you are Lucky, you receive no
scratches; if you are Unlucky, the slight poison of
the hollv reduces your sTAMINA by 2 points. Turn
to 206.

278-280
278

if your PowER score is still 17 or over, turn to 165;
otherwise, turn to 117-

279

You wriggle along the tunnel, hoping that nothing
dangerous will pursue you or come to greet you in
these cramped conditions, where fighting would be
next to impossible. In fact, however, before long the
tunnel widens and allows you to proceed on hands
and knees. At the same time, you can begin to make
cut a dim glow from ahead. Will you carry on (turn
to 124) or return to the cave and walk up the outside
of the hill (turn to 114)?

280

Whatever Ishtra hides in this room, he wanis it kept
secret. He has protected the room with intricate
spells. As soon as you insert your key in the lock,
you receive a shock, which jolts your whole body.
The effect, however, is not physical: you lose 1
POWER point. You can try another door by rolling
another double, or you can carry on up the corridor
(turn to 217).

251-282

251

The tunnel you are in winds quite a lot, but its
general direction is northerly. Gradually, from up
#head, you begin to hear the sound of gruff voices
mused in argument. You peer round a corner, when
you judge that you are close enough to the source of
the sound. and see a Troll and an Ogre, They have
erally bumped into each other at the junction
of two passages, one of which continues north,
while the other goes cast. It seems that the Ogre was
@rrying varnous instruments of torture, but
dropped them when the Troll crashed into him. You
hear the Ogre tell the Troll that he’s a clumsy oaf and
% pick up the torture devices. The Troll stubbornly
refuses. “Harsh words lead to cold steel,’ as the
Saving goes in Titan, and before long the pair of
susshapen monsters are fighting. Will you trv to
sneak past while they are occupied (turn to 193} oT
wait to see what happens (turn to 385}?

282

You pass, on the left side of the valley, a rock
formation which juts out of the cliff like some vast
Duttress. As soon as you are past it, you can see that
mis matched by another about two hundred metres
further down. In the backwater, as it were, of the
valley, which lies between these twin buttresses,
you find the answer to your questions about the
mature of this place-

Iwo majestic stags, whose many-branched antlers
Midicate great age and authority, are standing,
Siti 285-287
in front of a vast pile of bones. ais
Se aakes dunes is the | = death- § You think that, since Morpheus is the source of

nightmares and you are currently having a night-
mare, you would endanger yourself by attacking
him, Gain 1 FOWER point for this wise decision. You
wake up in the cold light of dawn; the sun is barely
visible through the noxious, murky air. It is with
some reluctance that you continue your journey.
Turn to 216.

ground of the deer of Affen Forest. it is said that no
mortal may gaze upon itand live, but perhaps this is
just an old wives’ tale, for you certainly do not feel
threatened, Will you, nevertheless, cross to the
other side of the valley, to give the stags a wide
berth (turn to 383), or will you approach the death-
ground (hurn to 101)?

286

Because of the nature of this extraordinary and
spooky battle, you may restore only haif of your lost
POWER points. As you strike the final blow, not only
does your double disappear, but the forest around
you shimmers and then vanishes. You fecl lonely
and lost; the feeling affects the dream world and you
find yourself in the middle of a vast desert. A
tell-tale ripple in the sand shows that a Giant Sand-
worm is passing by. Will you try to leap on to its
back for a ride (turn to 244) or not (turn to 297)?

3
You try to command the Drake, but it takes ne
notice. It may even be unaware that it has anything
on its back, Will you prod it with your sword, to
make it aware of you (turn to 264), or sit tight and
see where it takes you (turn to 216)?

itis now morning, and you wake from your night-

four great relief, th soon gives way tof Mare in the Wild Man's hut. Your body is aching
Sst — a and sore, as if the fight had been real, and your neck
half-hour before the deepening dusk} & bruised where the tree throttled you. Restore your
Sore ades you to make camp for the night. There POWER Score to 1 point less than it was before the
a huge fallen tree, in the hollow of whose roots yous, dream fight, and deduct 2 stamina points. If the
att sleep (turn to 335). or you could climb Wild Man is still alive, turn to 215; otherwise, you
another vast tree and camp in the branches (turn crew! back through the hollies and continue on your
133) way (turn to 116).
288-291

288
You are in a tunnel, heading west. Aftera while you
come to a junction, where there is an extremely
solid-looking door to your left. It hasno keyhole and
looks too tough to barge down, so you turn right.
There is a smell of fear in the air. Turn to 188.

289

li your POWER score is 14 or more, turn to 49,
otherwise, turn to 20.

290
You boldly march up to the thicket — which parts
and then vanishes to let you through! You know
that in dreams the images that you see are formed
by your own mind, and can therefore be changed or
dispelled by your own mind, if you have
POweR and make the right decisions. But by dispell-
ing this illusion, you also dissolve the dream as 3
whole, and you wake up. Turn to 380.

291

As soon as you defeated the Fog Devil, the mist
mysteriously cleared. You continue south, shaken
by your ordeal. By the late morning, there is no sign
that you are getting any nearer ishtra’s pit—but then
there is no sign that you are getting further away
either. Still, you contemplate a change of direction.
Will you continue south (turn to 178), or turn west
{turn to 300) or north-west (turn to 18)?

292-294

292
You decide that, however high your rower score,
this is one fight you cannot hope to win in the dream
world. You cross over to the real world instead.
Turn to 346.

293
Restore your POWER score to 1 point less than whal

it was before the fight. Turn to 361.

294
You call out, in the common tongue: ‘Hello, there! |
come in peace. Will you let me approach your
camp?’ As soon as you began to speak, the voices
went silent, and they remain silent now: there is no
reply to your question. You call a similar message
again, but with equally little response. You po up
to the edge of the clearing and peer around a
tree-trunk. You see half a dozen humans huddled
fearfully under a cart, white faces looking in your
direction. There are three men, one woman and
two children. Will you persevere with your attempt
to be friendly (turn to 129), or leave them be (tum to
298)?

295~297

295

The most puzzling feature of the corpse is the
boulder on its hand. The boulder does not look
heavy enough to have trapped this long-dead
traveller, so there are two possibilites. Either the
ichen which covers the boulder is somehow dead-
ly, and caused this adventurer’s death when it came
into contact with his hand; or someone or some-
thing rolled the boulder on to his hand when he was
already dead or dying. if you think the first possi-
bility is correct, then you will take care to avoid any
contact with the boulder when you examine the
skeleton (turn to 119); if you think the second passi-
bility is correct, then the reasons for covering the
adventurer’s hand with the rock are very odd in-
deed, and might be worth discovering by rolling the
doulder off the hand (turn to 182)

296
You give in to the temptation. You will live out your
days in a pleasant but fruitiess half-dream, tending
the enchanted fairy glade. Whether, or for how
jong, you stem the tide of Ishtra’s army, is not
recorded. Your quest is over.

297
You trudge off through a dream world of desert
send, At first you slip and slide on the shifting
surface, but gradually you get better at #. You
haven't the faintest idea where you are going. There
i no sun in this dream world, and even if there
were, who knows if it rises in the east here? You
297

have never seen so much sand before except in
other dreams, and you recall legends of the island of
Tir nan Og, where there is also said to be sand,
bordering a vast expanse of undrinkable, uncross-
able water,

These thoughts lead to the certainty that such an
expanse of water lies to your left. You hope that you
have not died and gone to Tir nan Og, but you can
no more resist the impulse to journey in that direc-
tion than a feather can resist the wind. And, since
this is the dream world, you have no sooner turned
left to g0 towards the sea, than there itis, spread out
before you. Will you walk into the sea (turn to 75) or
explore the sandy beach (turn to 149)?

298

The further west you travel, the more you are struck
Sy the peculiar behaviour of the animals. Normally
timid creatures snarl at you from the bushes; birds
Dwilter in fright from the topmost branches. It is also
clear that the woodland creatures have been har-
vesting food. It is not the usual season for this, and
you realize that all this strange behaviour is due to
their instinctive awareness of Ishtra’s imminent
invasion.

There are two consequences of this. In the first
place, it makes you confident that you are heading
m the right direction. Secondly, however, you begin
tO regret not bringing any Provisions from home,
since it is likely that the closer you get to Ishtra’s pit,
the more the forest animals will have gathered or
eaten the available food. You always knew that you
would need to carry food when you were under-
ground, but it now seems scnsibic to gather Pro-
vtsions for your whole journey, both overground
and underground.

The next stage of your westward journey will be
found by turning to 376. Before you turn there,
however, remember that paragraph number and
turn to 50.
299-300

299
The Goblin grunts, ‘Huh! Carry on’, and lets you
pass. Will you head for the door on your right (turn
to. 330) or the one straight ahead (turn to 269)?

300
As you travel west, you gradually become con-
vinced that it was a good idea to change direction,
because you begin to notice increasingly strange
behaviour among the animals of the forest. Nor-
mally shy creatures snarl aggressively at you from
the undergrowth; birds twitter in alarm from the
tree-tops. It is also clear that the woodland creatures
have been harvesting food. It is not the usual season
for this, and you realize that all this strange be-
haviour is due to their instinctive awareness of
Ishtra’s imminent invasion

You begin to regret not bringing any Provisions
with you from home, especially since it is likely that
the closer you get to Ishtra’s pit, the more the forest
animals will have gathered or eaten all the available
food. You always knew that you would have to
carry food when you were underground, but it now
seems sensible to gather Provisions for your whole
journey, both overground and underground.

The next stage of your journey will be found by
turning to 382. Before you turn there, however,
remember that paragraph number and turn to 59.

301-302

*

-—_ “ .
SP eS mS
. - 5-9

301

The Wild Man makes a mocking bow, extends an
arm towards his dilapidated hut and invites you in.
On the way, he scoops up yoursword, Once you are
inside, he sweeps a bench clear of utensils and
mouldy bread, and tells you to sit there; he draws
up a chair opposite you. Once you have stopped
sneezing from the dust you raise by sitting on the
dench, you introduce yourself: ‘I am Eldenurin, of
the Galoren tribe of Wood Elves of Affen Forest.’ If
your POWER score is 17 or over, turn to 152; other-
wise, turn to 324.

302
As soon as you leave the eye of the storm, you are
lashed and buffeted this way and that by the raging
forces. Something seems to eject you violently from
the storm and deposits you back in the centre. Lose
7 POWER poit and turn to 76.
303-304

303
You look around for an exit, and immediately the —
garden vanishes. Instead, you find yourself among —

new and horrifying surroundings. You are in the
squilet of some monster. Whether you have become
tiny or it is vast is irrelevant; at any rate, its gullet is
like-a living, pulsating tunnel to you. Presumably,
behind you lies its stornach; but ahead lies its throat
and mouth — and the possibility of freedom. That is
the direction you take.

But the gullet is infested with eellike parasites,
which wriggle and nip and attempt to trip you up im
the treacherous slime_ Roll two dice for the para-
sites, and then two dice for yourself. If the total is
equal, continue until you get a result. Lf their total is
more than yours, turn to 356; if your total is more
than theirs, turn to 224.

304

Inevitably, one of the frequent patrols has to come
up your tunnel. As soon as you see them coming,
you straighten up from your crouched pusition and
prepare to bluff your way out of the situation, since
you Tealize that this is your only chance. You walk
boldly out of the tunnel mouth as the patrolling
Orcs approach it. Tesi your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 245; if you are Unlucky, turn to 107.

305-306

305
The door opens smoothly and you step through.
You ate immediately faced by another junction, but
you can hear marching feet up the eastern tunnel,
Meanwhile, the door behind you has shut again, so
you go north. Turn to 188.

Even though you are gtr dreaming, your
Resi a ee asia, Dike But it is
the smooth, gliding motion of your body which
gives this impression, not any dullness of your
senses. On the contrary, the further you go along
this path, the more alert vou become and the more
aware of every colour, smell and noise, of the
springy feel of the turf beneath your light Elf feet,
and even of a gradually increasing richness of
atmosphere. Telessa gleams in your hand and
seems to reflect an unknown source of light.

The end of this journey comes unexpectedly. You
are passing through a clearing when your feet
simply refuse to go any further. You look around.
Evergreen trees surround the clearing and tower to
the sky; as you watch, their tops bend over and form
a dark canopy over your head. Then you notice six
white elder trees in the middle of the clearing, and
you know that you must stand in the centre of the

As soon as you do so, a voice speaks. Is it from the
trees, the air or merely inside your mind? It is
impossible to tell. But the voice, though quiet, is
397

crystal clear, because there is utter calm, as if vou
and everything around you were holding its breath:
‘Eldenurin, save the forest. You have seen and
smelled the suffering it is enduring, yet this is only
the smallest fraction of what it and the whole world
will suffer, if the Evil underground is released.
Prepare yourself, if you will undertake this burden.
For now | tell you this; remember this sacred spot’

Gain 1 POWER point. You now awaken from the
dream. Turn to 380.

3°7
The Shapechanger’s insatiable greed lends fury to
its onslaught. This fight will test your skill.

SHAPECHANGER
if you win, turn to 146.

SKILL IO

STAMINA 10

308-309

308
By noon, you are starting to climb into a range of
hills. In your weakened state, you find the climb
very tiring: deduct 2 further sTAMINA points. But
you make it to the top, and sit down to survey the
scene below. The hill descends gently into a valley,
where all seems to be peace and harmony. ‘I'he trees
there seem still to be dothed in spring green. But
this fresh copse ends with shocking abruptness in
terrain which is unlike anything you have seen
before, awake or in your worst nightmares. You
realize that you are looking out over the blighted

_ part of the forest, which your dream revealed to

you. It is considerably larger than you thought it

_ would be: it stretches for kilometres. Turn to 386.

309

You try to cross back to the real world, but it is no
good. Some force holds vou here. It will be released
only if you are successful in the Trial of Ghosts. You
have heard that in some parts of Titan, humans
practise barbaric forms of trial. For instance, a
sorcerer might be thrashed with stout branches of
thorn. If the wounds on his body form, in the
judges’ opinion, shapes born of Hell, then he is
burned as a necromancer; if not, he is released,
though he may be near death or scarred for life.
v.

136
1226 22

1 |35 231] 2 115/63] 3

4 y ay ¥
mR ee > - ~

[ Eee
11 200 15 60 222

310

in the same way, the Trial of Ghosts is arbitrary —a
matter mainly of luck. On the opposite paye is what
you see on the ground in front of you, Roll one die:
this is the number of the square you start on, You
now have to pick a route through to the centre,
which is where the judges sit, and is indicated in the
diagram by a question mark. The route you take
must consist of only five squares, including the one
you start with. The route can go vertically, horizon-
tally or diagonally from square to square, Thus, if
you start from 4. your route could be 4, 7, 183, 21, 19.
When you have chosen your route, tum to the
paragraph whose number is its total (234 in the
example above). If the paragraph makes no sense,
you have failed the test and will be hanged on the
gallows, with the crowd's laughter ringing in your
ears. Because you are currently bound to this world,
your POWER will be drained and your physical body
will die too. Good luck!

310

tou find yourself in a corridor with numbered doors
on either side of it. To your left are doors numbered
11, 33 and 55; to your right are doors numbered 22,
+4 and 66. Roll two dice until you roll a double, and
cen try the appropriate door (so, if you rall double
t, try the door marked 11, and so on). To try a door,
turn to the paragraph with the same number as that
marked on the door. If you choose to ignore all the
soors and walk on up the corridor, turn to 217.
311
311

The only compensation — if it can be called that —for
your slow progress during the day is that you are_

unable to sleep al] night, because of the itching,
sO you can press on with your journey

another denizen of the forest. This gives you con-
fidence that you are heading in the night direction.

The cautiousness of the animals, however, brings
its own dangers, since they are more likely to attack

any intruders. Sure enough, round about dawn,

you are set upon by a couple of Sciacalls, whose lair

you stumble into. These creatures resembie jackals,
but have a ridge of bony projections down the:

spine. As is usual with their kind, the female attacks |

first, to try to supply her mate with meat; but if vou

defeat the female, you will find that the male is

perfectly capable of hunting for himself!

SKILL STAMINA
Female SCIACALL 6 6
Male SCIACALL 6 8
If you win, turn to 267-

STAMINA points for weakness, however. The fur-
ther west you travel, the more you notice that the |
wildlife of the forest is wary of intrusion — even that
afa Wood Elf, who is normally considered to be just

312-314

zz
Your ankles slip off the rope and your legs splash
mto the river; but you keep your grip with your
hands. You draw your legs up away from the tug of
the fast-flowing river, and try to pull yourself up
antl you can wrap your legs around the rope again,
Roll three dice. If the total is less than or equal to
your STAMINA score, turn to 353; if it is more

_ than your stamina score, turn to 161.

313

You are walking through a field of flame, but you
are not burned. You wonder why and, as svon as
you do so, you feel a change come over you. You are
now a salamander, a lizard-like creature which can
endure great heat. You tell yourself that this is just
#5 well, since you seem to be living in the mouth of a
volcano. Will you explore over the lip of the volcano
(turn te 223) or will you go deeper ints the yolcano’s
mouth (turn to 174)?

314
You are weary after your fight. You must find a
place to rest very soon, and the only option is to
Select a4 cave. Turn to 181.
315-316

315
You scramble once again through the darkness of
the tunnel. When you reach the end, this time you
turn right. The patrol of Goblins that you saw before
is long gone. You meet a couple of Troglodytes, but
have no difficulty in bluffing your way past these
pea-brains. The passage ends at a junction where
you could turn right (turn to 123) or left (turn to 320).

316

Among all the dust and debris of the Wild Man's
cluttered hut, you find only one item which is
outstanding. This is a piece of amber, small enough
to fit easily inte your closed hand. What is remark
able about this amber is thal trapped within it is «
female glaw-warm, whose phosphorescent light is
sull shining, despite the millennia it mus! have
spentin the fossil resin. You also notice thatin some
past time, the number 20 has been engraved in fine,
spidery runes on one face of the amber cube. You
put the amber in your pack. Since it is now evening,
you decide to use the hut as a refuge for the night.
Turn to 86.

317-319

317"

You pled north up the tunnel. The ground rises
gradually until it crosses the river as a natural span
of rock. At the far end of the span area couple of Orc
guards; they let you past since they mistake you for
2 Dark Elf and their job, they say, is to prevent
Prowlers from getting out into the tunnels. Some
ame afterwards, you come toa junction where you
could either continue north (turn to 393) or turn east
¢own a darker tunnel (turn to 184).

318

At first you see nothing except swirling mist. Then
the mist abruptly clears and you see a vision of your
own future — death at the hands of an Orc, The
crystal ball does not lie. While you have been en-
grossed in looking into it, the Ore has crept up
behind you. He raises a jagged scimitar . - . and
your adventure is over.

39
in the morning, when you wake up, you tear away
the screen from the mouth of the cave. Dawn light
floods in from the sun, which has risen just over the
tops of the trees in the forest plain below. You can
now see more of the cave than you could last night,
and you realize that it goes deeper into the moun-
tain than you had thought. At the back of the cave,
screened by a boulder, a narrow tunnel winds away
into darkness. It is so narrow that you would have to
wriggle through, pushing your backpack andsword
in front of you. You can feel no draught issuing from
320

the tunnel, nor is there any other indication that it
might lead anywhere. Will you explore the tunnel
(turn to 35}, or continue up the hillside (turn to 214)?

320
You find the cook in a foul mood. Everything has
gone wrong far her today; a Dark Elf raiding party
failed to return from the outside world with fresh
meat; the food from the ice store is taking ages to
thaw; her assistant put too much bat’s blood in the
stew (a crime for which her assistant quickly became
the stew!); and so on. When you walk into the
kitchen, she thinks of a neat solution to her prob-
lems. Her day has been ruined by Dark Elves: why
should a Dark Elf not make things better, by joining
her former assistant in the pot? The cook is a large
half-human, specially brought from Corda by
ishtra’s spies. She altacks you with a cleaver.

COOK SKILL 6
If you win, you find another door in the north wall

STAMINA 10

of the kitchen. You pick up a tray of food to make

your exit from the kitchen more convincng. go
through the door and soon find yourself outside
another set of doors, through which you can hear
snuffies and snorts, Having got so far, you reckow
that you might as well be hung for a sheep as for 2
lamb, as humans say, so you open the doors. Turn
to 228.

324-322

322

You leave the thicket of holly bushes behind and
press on through the gloomy dusk. After a
kilometre or so, you come across a jumble of
boulders, scattered among the trees as if they were
Sigentic hailstones. Once you have checked that
mone of them is a disguised Boulder Beast, you
decide that this is as good a spot as any to spend the
might. As you settle yourself down, a Komodo
Lizard arrives, with the same idea as you. The
winner will have a bed for the night!

KOMODO LIZARD
if you win, tum to 384.

Skitt 6 STAMINA 8

322

You could cross the marsh safely by using several
Levitation spells, but you do not want to drain too
much of your POWER, so you travel as much as you
can by foot. In fact, it takes a Finding spell and a
Levitation spell to cross the marsh safely: deduct 2
FOWER points. It also takes the best part of a day,
Since you often have to back-track to find the best
route.

Once you are out of the boggy area, vou decide to
turn west; but you travel for only another half-hour
before the dusk persuades you to make
camp for the night. You could sleep in the hollaw
under the roots of a fallen tree (turn to 335), or you
could climb up another vast tree and camp in the
Branches (turn to 133)-
323-324

323

t soon becomes clear what you are up against. A
raiding party of six Dark Elves is closing in on you,
flitting from tree to tree. As soon as you see them,
your Wood Elf blood boils and you are ready for the
tray. These warped Elves mock the goodness of the
other Elven races; the scum deserve to die. Eric
takes on three of them, while you engage the other
three

SKILL STAMINA
First DARK ELF 8 6
Second DARK ELF 7 fs
Third DARK ELF 7 8

You stand between two close trees, and back to back
with Eric, so that you can fight your opponents one
at a Hme_ If you win, turn to 19.

Something in what you say obviously strikes the
Wild Man as incredibly amusing. He howls with
laughter, until tears roll from his eyes down his
cheeks, leaving trails in the dirt of his face. He
doubles up with laughter and starts to roll around
the floor, kicking his legs in the air. Will you seize
the opportunity to grab your sword and fight (turn
to 243), or just sit and watch his antics (turn to 166}?

325-326

335
‘What do you mean’ rasps the Goblin, drawing his
crooked sword. ‘Ishtea does not eat food such 2s this
he sucks the energy of living things.’ Your bluff is
exposed. You are quickly overcome and taken to be
Ishtra’s next meal.

326
During the afternoon, there is no noticeable in-
crease or decrease in the strange behaviour of the
forest animals, which you observed before. You
reckon that you may have to change direction, but
you postpone that decision until morning and de-
cide to look first fora place to spend the night. While
you are pondering these matters, you almost tip
over a sapling which someone has bent down and
fixed to the graund, As you walk past, will you leave
the sapling to your right (turn to 265) or to your left
(turn to 197}?

327

327
The ruse works. He relaxes his guard; you dive for
Telessa, roll over and regain your feet, sword in
hand, all in one swift and expert motion. The crazy
man huris himself at you, furious at being tricked.

WILD MAN

if you win, you may decide to take his magnificent
axe, but to do so, you would have to leave Telessa
behind, since the fwo weapons would weigh you
down. The man evidently has nothing concealed
about his person: his tattered clothes were hardly
covering his body. You decide to search the hut.
Turn to 136.

SKILLS STAMINA 12

328-329

328

You flip over to the dream world to avoid the chaotic
Orc, but his lurching motion makes him collide with
your invisible body, He instinctively lashes out with
his mace and catches you a glancing blow. You must
flip back to the real world to fight him, but deduct 2
STAMINA points for the wound he has already
inflicted on you. Return to 348.

329
Since there aré no features to make one direction

more attractive than another, it takes a surprising
amount of will to start walking. But no sooner have
you made that effort of will than things change
drastically. You are standing in a clear spot — the eve
of the storm - while all around you rages the most
terrible storm, as if the gods themselves were at
war, or the sky were trying to separate from the
earth. The starm seems to be pressing in towards
where you stand. Will you run for your life (turn to
302) or stay where you are (turn to 76)?

330-332

339
This is not the way to the kitchen, so your bluff is

exposed. The Goblins make short work of you, and
then return to their meal — with an extra itern on the
menu!

332
You find vourself walking in a garden, where all is
peace and tranquillity. After your recent experi-
ences, you are at first suspicious of such surround-
ings. Will you explore the garden (turn to 139) or
leave it (turn to 303)?

332

As you proceed northwards, you see more and
more evidence that the woodland creatures are
Drepering for Ishtra’s imminent invasion. It is not
just that they have been gathering much of the
available food; you also notice that their behaviour
patterns are different. There are fewer animals than
usual, as if many have already fled; normally timid
creatures snari at you from bushes; birds twitter in
inght from the topmost branches.

=n

332

You begin to regret not bringing any Provisions
from home, especially since itis likely that the closer
you get to Ishtra‘s pit, the more the forest animals
will have eaten or gathered the available food. You
always knew that you syould need to carry food
when you were underground, but it now secms
sensible to take time to gather Provisions for your
whole journey, both overground and under-
ground.

The next stage of your northward journey will be
found by turning to 347. Before you turn there,
however, remember that paragraph number and
turn to 50

3337334

333"

The tunnel slopes downwards, and after a while
you begin to hear the sound of flowing water ahead.
Sure enough, you soon find yourself on the bank of
a subterranean river. A noxious mist rises from the
nver and prevents you seeing how wide it is. There
is a thick, taut rope which disappears into the mist,
but looks as though it might cross the river, Will you
use the rope to cross the river (turn to 26) or wait a
while (turn to 345}?

334

the Varmnpire’s wings enfold you, until all is dark-

ness and you can see only the red low of its eyes as
its head draws ever closer to your neck. You wake
up in horror - . - and find, of course, that it was all
an illusion. Restore your FOWER score to 1 pointless
than what it was before the dream combat. It is now
morning, so you decide to continue on your way.
Turn to 172.
335

335

For a while, you sleep dreamlessly, but towards
dawn you start to dream. In your dream you are
crossing a vast, ice-bound plain. A bitter, merciless
wind howls down from a mountain range ahead of
you and cots through your clothing as if you were
naked. Then your sight of the mountains is cut off
by a blizzard; the snow, driven before the wind,
stings your eyes and blurs your vision. The howling
of the wind changes its tone and becomes both more
definite and more sinister. A bulky form seems to be
solidifying out of the falling snow. You will have tu
Aight this Snow Ghost; it has a POwER score of 14.

Roll two dice. If you roll 2-7, the Snow Chost
reduces your FOWER score by 2 points; if you roll
$-12, you reduce its POWER score by 2 points.
Continue this form of dream combat until either its
or your POWER score is zero. The Snow Ghost tries
to thump you with its fists, while in your dream you
wield a chub. If you defeat the Snow Ghost, turn to
262; if the Snow Ghost defeats you, turn to 137.

336-337

336

This is your best course of action: it will enable you
to have a running battle with your opponents,
rather than face them all at once, The rules for this
running battle are as follows. Fight each Dark Elf in
turn, If the combat with the first Dark Elfiasts longer
than four Attack Rounds, the second Dark Elf will
have reached you, and will have free strikes against
you for however many rounds it takes to finish off
the first one. When you have finished off the first
Dark Elf, turn to fight the second; the third will then
have free strikes against you, if you fail to defeat the
second within four rounds. Any free strikes against
you will reduce your stamina by the usual 2
paints. Continue this procedure unt! you have
defeated all six Dark Elves - or until they have
defeated you!

SKILL STAMINA
First DARK ELF 8 6
Second DARK ELF 7 6
Third DARK ELF 7 &
Fourth DARK ELF 8 7
Fifth DARK ELF 6 6
Sixth DARK ELF 6 8

if you win, turn to 392.

337
You manage to resist the petrifying wail of the
Banshee, and before it reaches you, you have your
weapon ready to fight it. You are fortunate that its
long imprisonment has made it a less formidable foe

338

than others of its kind: it is weak, and although it
continues to shriek, the screams have no effect on
you.

BANSHEE SKILL 9

if you win, you could see if the Banshee’s cave leads
anywhere (turn to 237}, or you could go back to the
junction and either take the new tunnel south (turn
to 90) or return east along the tunnel that brought
you to this part of Ishtra’s domain (turn to 132).

STAMINA 8

338

You still seem to be walking along a peaceful forest
track; and you see another Wood Elf walking to-
wards you. At first you think that this Wood Elf is
just like yourself, but then you realize that it is
yourself. You move to the left, and your double
moves to its right; you step backwards and so does
your double. You will have to fight your doublet It
has the same POWER score as you. Roll two dice. If
you roll 2-7, your double has reduced your POWER
by 2; if you roll 8-12. you have reduced its PowER
by 2. If you lose, you have killed yourself; if you
win, turn to 256.

339-341

339

You soon pass several nut trees and bushes — but
they have all been stripped of nuts. This is strange: it
must be the work of squirrels, yet squirrels usually
sture nuts only in autumn, to prepare for wintes.
Why should they do so in summer? Then it occurs to
you that the little creatures may be preparing for
something worse than winter —the coming of Ishtre
and his fell troops. if the squirrels’ instincts tell them
to gather their stores now, time is short indeed. Will
you look for the store of nuts, to fill the hole m your
stomach (turn to 222), or return tea northerly route
(turn to 275)?

340

Restore your POWER score ty) what it was before the
fight, then increase it by 1 point for your victory
Turn to 361,

347
For a while nothing happens. Then you see the most
bizarre and unrealistic senes of images. You are
standing in the middie of a sort of ravine, whose
sides are made out of . . - well, you suppose they
are buildings of some sort, since many werdly
dressed humans are coming and going through the
doors. But you cannot even begin to guess what
stone the buildings are made of; they are filled with
unnatural light as well, but the worst thing is that

they tower to the sky and threaten to fall on every

one’s heads. You shout to the strange people to run

but it soon becomes clear that they can neither see

342

nor hear you. You can see, but cannot hear; you are
surrounded by rush, but it all takes place in eerie

Then a new horror becomes apparent, The smooth
path you are standing on is suddenly filled by
dozens of monsters. They are made out of metal and
glass, it seems, and move ata terrifying speed. Each
of thern has at least one of the humanis in it, who are
obviously prisoners, and often have grim, tortured

342-343

You wake up from this nightmare: you can bear no
more of it, Is this some other world altogether, or is
this to be the future of Titan? Is the earth to be
controlled by metal monsters, with humans for
slaves? And where were Elves, Dwarfs and other
races? You find tears springing to your eyes in fear
for your race, for you know that no Elf could live in
such a place. Bui now you are awake, you must get
on with your mission. Turn to 172.

Soin ene caciaines Ios tive Scaled ave regio
barriers in the dream world; you still cannot get
past. Lose 1 LUCK point and return to 362.

343

He puts up no resistance, and in your dream you cut
him to pieces, slashing ferociously as if to avenge all
the races of Titan. But since he is the source of
nightmares, and since you are in a nightmare, in
killing him you kill your dream body, and it is no
longer connected to your sleeping self. Your pow r®
is drained. Your physical body jerks once and is
still for ever. Anyone who finds your corpse will
wonder at its unmarked state.

344

44

You set off west through the familiar forest. The sun
Strikes shafts of light through the trees, birds sing in
the branches and small animals rustle the under-
growth. But the burden of your quest lies heavy on
you, and you cannot take your usual pleasure in
such things. There are few true paths this deep in
the forest, but there are plenty of signs to show a
Wood Elf which way is which, and you maintain a
generally westward direction.

After halfa day’s travel, you smell wood-smoke and
hear the rumble of indistinct voices — humans, most
probably, to judge by the timbre of the voices. They
are a little way off to your left. Will you seek their
company (turn to 387) or press on with your journey
(turn to 298)?
345

45

You reckon that it would be highly inefficient for
Ishtra’s troops to rely merely on the rope to get
across the river; the rope must be attached toa ferry,
which can be pulled trom bank to bank along it. You
wait for a long enough time for doubts to creep into
your mind, but then you can see the rope trembling,
and shortly afterwards you hear the distinctive
creaking of a boat. You hope that there is a single
ferryman, not a squadron of Ishtra’s troops on
board.

You are lucky; there is only the ferryman—an Ogre.
When he has drawn the boat up to the bank, he
waits for you to get on. You notice that he has an axe
lying conveniently close to hand; and you notice a
small pile of boars’ tusks in a box. If you have a
boar’s tusk, he will take you across, since this is the
token with which all of Ishtra’s troops are issued
(turn to 100}; otherwise, you will have to fight him
(turn to 42).

346-347

346

in the course of your adventure you may have
acquired some artefacts which were numbered, and
some which were linked with special numbers. Add
together the numbers of all the artefacts you have,

and turn to the paragraphs whose number is the
same as the total. If you cannot do this, or if the
paragraph vou turn fo does not make sense at this
peant of your adventure, turn to 212.

347
The route you are following takes you past a Death

. The sensitive roots of this tall, tree-tike
plant detect the vibrations caused by any creature's
footsteps, and the plant immediately drips a fast-
acting poison from its sickly yellow flowers. Test
your Luck If you are Lucky, turn to 232; if you are
Unfucky, turn to 194.
348-349
348°

You are unlucky enough to ron into a chaotic Orc.
You can tell that he has been tainted by Chaos
because of the extra arm which has sprouted from
one of his shoulders. He also reels from side to side,
and occasionally even steps backwards, as if his
sense of balance were impaired as well. He blames
most of the world for his deficiencies, but especially
hates Elves; he attacks you without reason. Fortu-
nately, the Orc’s awkwardness partially compen-
sates for his extra fighting arm.

CHAOTIC ORC SKILL 7 STAMINA 6

if you win, you continue west down the passage,
until you come to a junction. To the nght is a
narrow, dark tunnel, which has asign hanging from
the roof, which reads simply ‘DANGER’. It is a new
sign, and has obviously been put up by some of
ishtra’s troops. To the left is a tunnel with no
outstanding features that you can see. Will you go
nght (turn fo 5) or left (turn to go)?

349
Test your Luck If you are Lucky, turn to 128; if you
are Unlucky, turn to 81.

35°

35°

As soon as you step between the pillars, your
trained sixth sense picks up an important feature of
Ishtra’s underground domain: this is a place where
the dream world and the real world overlap. You
can travel these tunnels in either world.
Thus throughout this final lap of your adventure,
you could try to get to Ishtra entirely in the dream
world, or entirely in the real world, or you cond flip
from one world to the other. Most remarkably,
when you travel in the dream world in Ishtra’s
domain, your physical body moves too. itis not like
being asleep, when your body remains in the same
place; it is rather that, even though you are actually
walking along, your awareness is only of the dream
world — you are like a sleep-walker.

Apart from the different adventures the two worlds
offer, it should be noted that there are advantages
and disadvantages to them both. For instance, you
cannot expect to acquire physical artefacts in the
dream world; on the other hand, while you are in
the dream world, your physical body is invisible
(but not immaterial) in the real world. It should also
be noted that when you cross from the dream world
to the real world, you may be disurientated and not
know exactly where you are in the tunnels.

Whenever a ‘real-world’ paragraph is marked by *.
you can choose to flip to the dream world by sub-
tracting 20 fram the paragraph number and turning
to that new reference. Whenever a ‘dream-world’
paragraph is marked by #, you can choose to flip to

351-352

the real world by adding 50 to the paragraph num-
ber and turning to that new reference. You can flip

from one worid to the other in this way whatever
other choices the paragraph offers. You will be
offered the opportunity to flip only when it is feas-
ible to do so. Fornow, you step cautiously down the
tunnel ahead of vou. Turn to 362.

You come toa passage on your left, but you can hear
voices in it, so you carry straight on. Some way
further on, you see a stout wooden door to your
night. You listen, but can hear no noises from
beyond the door. Will you carry on north (turn to
274) or find out whatis behind the door (turn to 13)?

352
if you use a Fire spell, tum to 207; if you use a
Weaken spell, turn to 230.

353

353
You manage to regain your grip, and you continue
to inch your way along the rope. But soon you feel
the rope start to tremble. At first you don’t know
what is going on, and hanging upside down on the
rope makes it even more difficult to look ahead
through the mist. Then you begin to hear the dis-
linctive creaking of a boat, and you realize what the
rope is for, There is a ferry across the river, and it is
pulled to and fro along the rope, which passes
through an attachment on the ferry. The ferry is
now heading towards you from the other bank of
the river. You have no choice but to wait . . . and
hope that there is a single ferryman, not a squadron
of Ishtra’s troops on board.

You are lucky; there is only the ferryman. He cali
out to you as soon as he sees you, but continues to
pull on the rope and guide the ferry along it. When
the prow of the boat is beneath you, you drop down
on to it. There is no way that the ferryman—an Ogre
—is going to believe any excuses you could make up
for being on the rope: a regular denizen of these
tunnels would know about the ferry and would
have waited on the bank for it. So you immediately
engage the Ogre in combat; when he sees your
aggressive intentions, he stops tugging on the rope
and picks up his axe, Turn to 42.

3547355

354
You are unable to continue with the dream. It is too
ghastly for you to bear, You wake up, with the silent
scream of the tortured trees resounding in your
mind. It will be a while before you are free from the
lingering traces of the vile odour. ‘Turn to 380.

355

You walk as if in a dream through the enchanted
glade. There are bushes laden with luscious fruit,
and edible roots galore, but every time you reach
out your hand to phick something, it recedes from
your grasp. You cannol replenish your Provisions
here. Even , you come to the end of the glade,
and the harshness of the blighted lands which face
you strikes you like 2 physical blow. You summon
up your sense of purpose and step over the border
into Ishtra’s cruel kingdom. Turn to 259.

356-357

356
You trip and fall over, face down in the vile fluid on
the floor of the gullet. You gasp with shock, and to
your utmost horror one of the eel-like parasites
immediately tries to wriggle into your mouth. If
your POWER score is 18 or more, turn to 251; other-
wise, turn to 202.

357
You gather some logs and uproot several bushes to

make a screen across the mouth of the cave. This
won't fool the cave’s occupant, if it returns, but it
will give you advance warning of its return, since it
would make a noise while removing the screen. You
do not sleep well, since you are constantly half
expecting to hear the animal coming back — but it
doesn't. Only one brief vision deepens your other-
wise shallow sleep, but it is a dream of great and
awesome beauty.

You see yourself standing in the centre of a ring
formed by six pools, which you know instinctively
are bottomless. Two of the pools are filled with
liquid fire, which continually changes shape and
colour, and seems to form recognizable images — but

357

they are gone before you can identify them, and a
new image has taken the place of the other, for ever
Jost. Two of the pools are filled with water; in your
dream you look into one of these pools and know
that the water is burning cold, though it does not
freeze over. You see reflected in the pool a dark,
Star-studded night sky, but these are not the fam-
thar constellations which circle Titan- The last two
pools, arranged opposite cach other as the other
pairs are too, are funnels for mighty winds. One
pool is exhaling and the other inhaling, as if they
were the breath of the world, and the strength of
their blasts would cither suck you into the fathom-
tess depths or blow you into the heavens. Gain 2
TOWER points and turn to 319.

358-359

358

Nothing happens, to your surprise, since you were
expecting a trap. You had braced your feet on either
side of the tunnel in case a pit opened up beneath
you, and were looking up at the roof in case E
started to come down on top of you. Not only does
none of this happen, but the door does not open
either. You give it a push to see if you have released
some kind of lack — and a spike shoots into your
hand! Test your Luck. lf you are Lucky, it is not your
fighting arm, and you only deduct 2 STAMINA
points. If you are Unlucky, you must deduct 1 skint
point as well as the 2 STAMINA points. Then you
push the lever up. ‘Turn to 305.

359
Ishtra’s dungeons are overflowing: he has problems
with unruly troops. Your key fits in the lock and you
enter a small room, which is being used as an extra
prison. The inmate mistakes you for a careless
gaoler, and attacks.

PRISONER SKILL 7 STAMINA ®S

If you win, you can either try another door by rolling
another double, or you can walk on up the comdor
(turn to 227).

360-361

bo
In your dream, you are assailed by a huge Vampire

Sat, which you know to bea servant of Ishtva. It has

2 POWER score of 16; you have to fight a dream battle

with it. Roll two dice. If you roll 2-7, the Vampire

reduces your FOWER score by 2 points; if you roll
S12, you reduce its power score by 2 points.
Continue this procedure until either its or your
POWER score is zero. The Vampire is constantly
trying to sink its fangs into your neck, and beats you
with its leathery wings. If you defeat the Vampire,
tum to 65; if it defeats you, turn to 334.

362
You survey a bleak and dreary landscape. A river
meanders past the foot of the hill on which you are
Standing. You go down to the river, but the water

_ smokes like acid: you decide not to cross it. Will you

walk left along the river(turn to 238) or right (turn to
305)?

Ow __

362-363

362"

You come toa fork in the tunnel. At the point where
two passages meet yours, a large stone statue faces
you, which you recognize as a Crio-Sphinx, a ram-
teaded sphinx. As soon as you draw near, portcul-

ises slam down to block off the ways onward, and
the the Crio- Sphinx speaks in a stone-cold voice: “The
left route leads further, the nght to sudden death.’
You know that Sphinxes’ words are never quite
what they seem. Will you take the path to your left
turn to 78) or to your right (turn to 151)?

363

You let your thoughts roam far and wide. You
conjure up images of the loved ones you have left
behind, and of the perils on the path ahead. Danger
seems remote in this sunny clearing. Nevertheless,
you are convinced that ime is short, so with a sigh
you get up and prepare to continue on your way.
You look up to assess how much daylight is left to
you — and see a giant Bloodhawk just beginning its
dive out of the sky towards you! You have time to
cast a spell, if you want to, and feel you can afford to
spend a pointof powek. The only spells which will
de of use to you are Fire (turn to127), Protect (turn to
154) or Weaken (turn to 256). If you fight the crea-
ture normally, turn to 29.

364-365

Now, instead of facing

mare monsters, who is trying to absorb you. Since
Morpheus is no mere illusion, but a creature of the

dream world, then you can be killed in this dream
battle. Conduct the battle as if it were normal com-

bat, but substitute rower for STAMINA.

MORPHEUS sk1i1.8

reaches 2 or 1, if you get that far (turn to 250), or will
you finish him off (turn to 343)?

365
The river winds quite a fot, but at least it remains a
river in your dream. You walk along the left bank.
You have no idea of time: you could have been
walking here for a minute or a year. The surface of
the water is occasionally broken by some monster,
nothing attacks you, but the general atmosphere is
one of fear — of expecting something unpleasant to

happen at any moment.

Over to your left you see a silver tower. Ils
architecture is weird and unfamiliar: it looks as
though many rings have been placed one on top of
another, with the largest at the base. Although the
sky is overcast, the tower glints as if it were reflect-
ing sunlight. There is something at the top of the
tower, but you cannot see what it is. A weather

364
Separate monsters, you must
fight Morpheus himself, the conglomerate of night-_

POWER 25
Will you stop fighting Morpheus when his Powes |

366-367
vane, perhaps. Will you go over towards the tower

_ {turn to 266) or carry on along the river (har to 192)?

36
When you head south-west, you expect that you
will soon come across the creek again. In fact,
however, you do not come across the creek, but
rather its source - a vast boggy area where many
Springs well up from underground. ff you are to
continue south-west, you will have to pass through
the marsh; you reckon you could do so, at any rate

_with the help of a spell or two. Alternatively, you

could avoid the boggy area and simply head west. If

_ Fou go south-west, turn to 322; if you go west, turn

® to.

367

You quickly arrange the objects, stand in the centre
and wait. Ishtra bursts into your field of vision with
8 noise like a thunderbolt and the smell of corrup-
tion. Demon Princes take many forms; you see him
a3 a goat-headed crocodile, which stands on two
feet and has livid green fire playing over the surface
of his body. He shricks with what in a mortal would
be insane laughter when he sees what you have
done. ‘Foolish Elf?’ he screams. ‘Did you hope to
defeat me with your paltry objects — me, Ishtra the
Almighty? Soan I will be greater than my brothers.
Nothing can stop me now!" He blasts you into
oblivion with a single thunderbolt.
368
You walk for a while through low shrubs, which
glow with unnatural light and ooze blood. Without
warning, the ground beneath you gives way and
you land in an underground tunnel, through which
a steaming river flows sluggishly. Turn to 85.

369
You rush at the second Pygmy Orc. He only hes
time to draw his sword to defend himself.

PYGMY ORC

If you win, you hear the sound of a patrol returning
along the tunnel. Perhaps the commotion of your
fight reached theirears. You expect that the death of
a couple of Pygmy Orcs will not attract too much
attention; this sort of thing must be an everyday
occurrence in a hell-hole like this, You dash out of
the tunnel and back into the bone cave. You still
reckon that the north-eastern tunnel is not safe, so
you must quickly choose between the northem
tunnel (turn to 282) or the western one (turn to 333).

SKILL 6 STAMINA 5

370-371

37°
if you are wearing the pendant, turn to 138; other-
wise, turn to 211-

373

As you gaze into the eyes, you become hypnotized,
and seem to fall into them, or rather through them.
For a while you seem to float under a hot, yellow
sun. Then, as if you were an eagle in the sky, you
look down on an awful scene. A strange people are
camped in a fork between two shallow rivers; their
skin is coppery-red in colour and out of the tops of
their tents stick the ends of the poles which farm the
frames of the tents. Some people with lighter skin
are bearing down on them on horseback; sabres
flash in the sun, and magic sticks deal death from a
distance. The image is brief, but startlingly clear;
you know that the red people will be massacred,
and you know that scenes like this one have oc-
curred and will occur again all over the surface of
whatever world you are seeing. But that is all you
have time to see and know, before you are sucked
back through a vortex. Turn to 331,

372

372
You rest awhile, and then prepare to set off again,
when the half-light of dawn has yielded to full
daylight. But just as you are getting te your feet, the
Weevil Man, in whose tree-roct hame you spent the
night, returns from his night-time foraging. Weevil
Men are mutants which are so misshapen 2s to
resemble a cross between a beetle and a human.
They have tough natural armour on their backs and
tend to drop on to all fours to protect themselves.
hey were driven long ago from civilized society
and banished to the hidden places of the world -
such as deep in Affen Forest! As survivors in the
hard world of Titan, they are far from cowardly
fighters. This one drops his pack and hurls himself
at you, wielding a hatchet.

WEEVIL MAN

Every time you win an Attack Round, roll one extra
die. if you roll 1-3, the Weevil Man has managed to
take your blow on his armour, and sustains only
1 point of STAMINA loss (or 2 if you use LUCK
successfully). If you win, turn to 162.

sxitts STAMINA II

373-374

373

There is no sign of any living creature that might
have uttered the unearthly cry you heard. While
you watch from the hill, however, the swirling haze
which covers the blighted forest suddenly leaps into
greater motion and, even though you are far away,
you are simultaneously struck by a furious blast of
sorcerous wind, which knocks you off your feet.
fest your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 175; if you
are Unlucky, turn to 93.

374

AS soon as you saw the Banshee, you drew your
sword. But you are unable to resist its petrifying
wail: you are temporarily frozen with fear, and the
monster gouges you with its claws, Reduce your
STAMINA by 2 points. The shock of the pain jolts
you out of the trance, and you are now ready to fight
it. You are fortunate that its long imprisonment has
made it a less formidable foe than others of its kind:
it is weak, and although it continues to shriek, the
screams have no effect on you.

BANSHEE STAMINA 8

if you win, you could see if the Banshee’s cavern
leads anywhere (turn to 237), or you could go back
to the junction and either take the new tunnel south
(turn to go} or return east along, the tunnel that
Droagin. you to this part af ishtra’ s domain (turn to
+).

SKILL G
372

372

You rest awhile, and then prepare to set off again,
when the half-light of dawn has yielded to full
daylight, But just as vou are getting to your feet, the
Weevil Man, in whose tree-root home you spent the
night, returns from his night-time foraging. Weevil
Men are mutants which are so misshapen as to
resemble a cross between a beetle and a human.
They have tough natural armour on their backs and
tend to drop on to all fours to protect themselves.
They were driven long ago from civilized society
and banished to the hidden places of the world —
such as deep in Affen Forest! As survivors in the
hard worid of Titan, they are far from cowardly
fighters, This one drops his pack and hurls himself
at you, wielding a hatchet.

WEEVIL MAN STAMINA II

Every time you win an Attack Round, roll one extra
die. if you roll 1- -3, the Weevil Man has managed to
take your blow on his armour, and sustains only
1 point of STAMINA loss (or 2 if you use LUCK
successfully). If you win, tum to 262.

SKILLS

373-374

373
There is no sign of any living creature that might

have uttered the unearthly cry you heard. While
you watch from the hill, however, the swirling haze
which covers the blighted forest suddenly leaps into
greater motion and, even though you are far away,
you are simultaneously struck by a furious blast of
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 175; if you
are Uniucky, turn to 93.

374
As soon as you sew the Banshee, you drew your

sword, But you are unable to resist its petrifying
waik you are frozen with fear, and the
monster gouges you with its claws. Reduce your
STAMINA by 2 points. The shock of the pain jolts
you out of the trance, and you are now ready to fight
it. You are fortunate that its long imprisonment has
made it a less formidable foe than others of its kind:
it is weak, and although it continues to shriek, the
screams have no effect on you.

BANSHEE

if you win, you could see if the Banshee’s cavern
leads anywhere (turn to 237), or you could go back
to the junction and either take the new tunnel south
{turn to go) or return east along the tunnel that
brought you to this part of Ishtra’s domain (turn to
132).

SKILL G STAMINA B
375

375
With a pang of regret, you slide Telessa gut of its

sheath and toss it on to the damp grass in front of
you. You wonder what will happen next, but re-
sund yourself that ‘where there's life, there's hope’.
The foot is lifted off your neck, and the voice tells
you to get up. When you do so, you see a stranze
sight. Before you stands a stocky human, leaning on
the haft of a brilliantly polished two-handed. axe.
Whatis strange is the contrast between the care with
which the axe has been maintained and the man‘s
wid and unkempt appearance. His clothes are little
more than rags, his long hair and beard are matted,
and his bare arms are ingrained with years of dirt.
Suddenly he bursts into a cracked cackle of glee, and
you realize that he is completely insane. You will
have to tread carefully. You tell him that you mean
him no harm. De you do this to put him off his
guard, so that you can try tw seize Telessa and fight
turn t 327), or will you bide your time (turn to
301)?

376-377

376
Later in the afternoon, you hear the distinctive

sound of a Wild Boar tampling the undergrowth.
‘The noise dies away and you think you are sale, but
halfa kilometre further on, the creature bursts out at
you from some shrubs.

WILD BOAR

Since the Elves of Affen Forest do not eat meat, this
encounter cannot replenish your stock of Pro
visions, but you may decide to take its tusks. If you
win, turn to 326.

SKILL 6 STAMINA §

377
You change your vision to what you feel most at -

home with —a forest. But this is like no forest you
have seen before; even the ruined forest around the
entrance to Ishtra’s Jair seems, in comparison, «
haven of health and peace. The trees here are
not really trees at all; they are malignant growths,
extensions of the cancer which is the earth here
They scream in agony and beg you to put them out
of their misery. Will you try te help (turn to 200) or
block your ears and press on (turn to 249)?

378-379

378
You are wiping the grime off a window when the
cracking of 2 twig behind you alerts you to danger.

You whirl round to see a strange sight. Before you

Sands a stocky human, hefting a brilliantly

polished two-handed axe. What is strange is the
contrast between the care with which the axe has
deen maintained and the man’s wild and unkempt

_*ppearance-. Fis clothes are little more than rags; his

jong hair and beard are matted; his bare arms are
Mgrained with years of dirt. Suddenly, he bursts
into a cracked cackle of glee, and you realize that he
5s completely msane. At the same time, he launches
himself towards you.

WILD MAN

if you win, you may take his magnificent axe, but if
you do, you will have to leave your sword behind,
since the two weapons would weigh vou down. The
man evidently has nothing concealed about his
person: his tattered clothes hardly cover his body.
You decide to search the hut. Turn to 136,

SKILL 8 STAMINA 12

379
Although the Goblins give you curious looks, they
Go Not suspect you or try to halt you. In order to
appear convincing, you leave the dining-hall
through the north door, by which you entered. Add
= LUC point. You return to the junction, and this
hme you carry on north. Turn to 310.
380

380
When you are fully awake, you know what you

must do. Somewhere in the forest is an area of foul
blight, which marks the entrance to Ishtra’s under-
ground stronghold; you must find it, enter the pit,
seck out Ishtra and do battle with him. This will be
an immense task — a quest which, whether you
succeed or fail, the Wood Elves will sing about as
long as they have voices to sing. It is a particularly
daring undertaking for a Wood Elf, for your kind do
not normally stray more than half a day's journey
from home.

You call a council of the tribal elders and explain
your task. They protest that the mission is impos=-
ible, but you do not allow such doubts to enter your
mind. You tell them that you must go, and you
make arrangements for the protection of the tribe
during your absence. After embracing your Gosest
friends — and many seem to be such friends under
these circumstances — you re to leave. All you
need is your sword Telessa and a backpack. You do
not take any Provisions, because as 2 Wood Elf you
are confident of finding enough to eal as long as you
are in the forest.

Which way should you go? Lake Nekros lies not far
to the east, so you must choose between heading
roughly north (tum to 88), south (tum to 398) or
west (turn to 344).

381-382

The tunnel ends at a T-junction, where a broad,
well-lit passage runs east and west. This is all you
have time to notice for the moment, however, since
you have to duck back into your dark tunnel to
avoid a patrol of Goblins. When they have gone
past, will you follow them east (turn to 20g) or turn
west (furn ty 348)?

382

You make good time west for the rest of the day. The
peculiarity of the animals’ behaviour does not
increase very much. Towards evening, you are
attacked by a swarm of hornets, but since the hor-
nets of Affen Forest are notoriously aggressive any-
way, you do not count this as peculiar behaviour.
You manage to deal successfully with their attack at
acostof: POWER point, for a Fire spell.
383

You strike a narrow trail. It heads in the night
direction, so you take it: it enables you to keep
travelling even though dusk is drawing in. In the
twilight, you do not see the trap until it is too late. A
net drops on you from above; it is incredibly light,
but itis as strong and sticky as a huge spider's web.
You are caught fast and completely enveloped; you
cannot even move an arm to reach for Telessa_ You
see a Pixie dart out in front of you from the bushes.
With a big grin on her cheeky face, she sprinkles
some magic dust on you, and you slip into uncom
sciousness. Turn to 98,

383
In the late afternoon, you start to dimb a range of

hills, which are just as thickly wooded as any other
part of Affen Forest. Add 1 Lucx point for getting
this far through the forest, The rock of the hills &
exposed in places; boulders litter the ground and
you pass quite a few small caves. You realize that #
would not take much searching to find one large

enough to spend the night in. Will you do this (turn

to 181} or not (turn to 56)?

384-385

384
Surrounded as you are by the evil of this baneful

place, your dreams are inevitably troubled. You
seem to see a giant serpent coiled around the forest,
and squeezing. As the forest contracts, it turns into
2 mocking face, whose mouth is Ishtra’s pit, and
whose laughter becomes the chilling shriek you
heard from the hillside. You are being drawn into
the mouth, and you are dimly aware that Ishtra‘s
shriek is being echoed by your own screams. Now
you are serabbling at the ground t stop yourself
being sucked into the gaping maw. Will you give up
the struggle and let yourself go (turn to 9g) or not
(turn to 252)?

385

The Troll kills the Ogre — but then stomps off down
the passage towards you! You will have te fight your
way ont of this situation: the Troll’s blood is up and
he’s spoiling for another fight, whether it is against
an ally or not. Fortunatelv, the Troll has been
wounded by the Ogre and is a less formidable
opponent than he would have been.

TROLL
lf you win, turn te 39-

SKILLS STAMINA 7
366-387
386

Empathy knows no distances, and as a Wood Elf
you can feel the pain of the suffering forest, even
though you are still some way from it. What lies
before your eyes is like a mockery of the forest you
know and love. There are trees ail right — although
many areas have been devastated, as if by fire or by
4 horde of careless axe-wielding Dwarfs. In contrast
to the clarity of the air where you are and in the
pleasant valley below, the cursed region in the
distance is shrouded by a murky haze, which rolls
and seethes with a chaotic life of its own. But your
observations of the scene are cut short by a sudden
harsh cry, which rips the still air, silences the birds
twittering in the trees above you, and sends a spurt
of chill fear into your heart. You jump to your feet in
alarm. Will you run and hide from whatever vast
being may be the source of this sound (turn to 7) or
stay where you are (turn ty 373)?

387

You soon see that you are approaching a clearing,
and you notice a thin trickle of grey smoke rising
straight up into the windless sky. You can hear the
voices more clearly now. They are definitely
human, and they sound worried. Will you step
through the trees into the clearing (turn to §9) or call
out first (furn to 204)?
388-391

You walk boldly down the well-lit passage, trying to
look as if you belonged here. You pass a narrow,
dark tunnel on your right, but you think that this
Main passage must be leading somewhere import-
ant, so you carry on down it. You meet a couple of
Troglodytes, but have no difficulty in bluffing your
way past these pea-brains. After sume time, the
passage ends at a junction, where you could turn
right (turn to 123) of left (turn to 310).

389

While you struggle in your dream, you are tossing
and turning in real life. You eventually plummet off
the branch which is your bed and jand heavily on
the ground below. Deduct 4 sramina points.
There are still several hours of darkness left, so you
climb back up the tree and return to troubled sleep.
Turn to 360,

390
Reduce your STAMINA by 2 paints for lack of rest.
Dawn finds you close to the crest of the range of
hills. Turn to 214.

392
You hoped that the apparently suicidal decision of
letting the sandworm take you underground would
dispel this dream and change it to another. Sand fills
your mouth and clogs your nostrils, but your hope
is not disappointed. Add 1 LUCK point and turn to

334.

392

392
Add 2 LUck points for surviving this extremely

dangerous encounter with the Dark Elves. You also
gain a disguise; since you reckon that there will be
many of Ishtra’s troops underground, you don the
clothing of a Dark EM. Not long afterwards, but after
night-fall, you come to the entrance toIshtra’s pit. It
is not what you expected. Two grand pillars of ivory
flank the mouth of a tunnel, which slopes under-
ground and is lit by guttering torches on the walls.
Your dream was being symbolic, not literal, when it
showed you a collapsed pit. These are probably
nstural tunnels which Ishtra has taken over and
restored. You draw a deep breath, let it out slowly
and step through the Gate of Ivory. A flock of bats,
disturbed by your presence, flap noisily out into the
right. Turn to 350.

393-395

393

Time passes. If you have not eaten so far during
your underground journey, you must deduct 2
STAMINA points. The tunnel you are in ends
abruptly at a stout wooden door— too solid to barge
down, you think. There isno handle or keyhole, but
there is a lever protruding from the wall near by.
You have heard about this sort of door. Will you
push the lever up (turn to 305) or down (turn to
358)? <

394
The Weevil Man shuffles warily towards you.
WEEVIL MAN

Every time you win an Attack Round, roll one extra
die, If you roll 1-3, the Weevil Man has managed to
take your blow on his armour, and sustains only +
point of STAMINA loss (or 2 if you use LUCK suc-
cessfully). If you win, you may take the Weevil
Man’s hatchet, if you so wish You also look
through his pack, to see if you can replenish your
Provisions, but the crawling, magguoty contents
make your stomach heave. Turn to 308.

SKILLS STAMINA II

395
if your POWER score is 14 or more, tum to 241:
otherwise, turn to 354.

Eric Rune-axe has skit 8, STAMINA 12. The two
of you can fight the Shapechanger together. The
Savagery of its attack will prevent you both
approaching it each Attack Round, but you can fight
it in alternate rounds.
SHAPECHANGER  sxiit 10
if you win, but Eric dies, you take the time to bury
his body, laying his axe reverently on the corpse. If
you win and Eric survives, you both continue
together. In either event, tum to 146

STAMINA 14

397

Add + 4ucK point. You walk on through an in-
creasingly weird dream-scape; you become sure
that you are nearing your goal, You are walking
now through low shrubs, which glow with unnatu-
ral ight and ooze blood. Without warning this time,
the ground beneath your fect gives way, and you
land in an underground tunnel, through which a
steaming river flows sluggishly. Turn to $5,
395-399

398

You set off south, with the sun sending beams of
ight to dapple the springy turf, with the birds
singing gaily in the trees — and with dread in your
heart. But the going is easy, there is an abundance of
muts and berries, and you can sense no immediate
danger.

Towards midday, however, a sudden fog rolls in
from the east, where Lake Nekros lies not too far
away. The dark depths of the lake are a denial of
summer gladness, and this fog from the lake chills
your limbs. All at once, out of the mist, a Fog Devil
swirls by. You duck and avoid the first attack of its
slashing claws, but it immediately comes back at
you. The monster is so fast and insubstantial that
you must reduce your sxiLt by 2 while you fight it.
it is like a ghost made out of vapour, but the claws
which tip its cruel hands are real enough.

FOG DEVIL SKILLS STAMINA 6
if vou win, turn to 291-

399
As the afternoon progresses, you find that almost
impenetrable thickets are forcing you to veer more
to the west. Are you happy with this change of
direction (turn to 376), or will you push through the
undergrowth north-west (turn to 12)?

400

400
Now that you have rid Titan of Ishtra, his army will

soon fall apart. If you were to linger in his under-
ground stronghold, you would soon hear the
sounds of fighting, as each faction among his troops
seeks to annihilate all others. You do not linger,
however! The cayern you ate in — the cavern where
you faced Morpheus and overcame Ishtra —is close
to an exit from the tunnels. You leave through a gate
of horn and find yourself back in the forest. There
has been no miracle cure: it is still as blighted and
cursed as before; but you know that it will soon be
covered in fresh green, a5 new growth begins. For
the time being, your lorest and Titan are safe!

Atse mm Putin

Steve fackson’s
SORCERY!

[> THE SHAMUTANTI HILLS

Your search for the legendary Crown of Kings takes you
to the Shucnutenti Hills. Alive with evil creatures, lewless
wanderers and dloodthirsty monsters, the land is riddled
with tricks and traps wailing for the unwary traveller.
WH you be able to cross the hills safely and priced tu
the second part of the adventure — or will you perish in
the attempt?

2: KUARE CITYPORT OF TRANS
AS 3 warrior relying on force of arms, or a wizard trained
im magic, you must brave the terror of a city buill lo Leap
the unwary. You will need all your wits about you tn sur
vive the unimaginable horrors ahead and to make sense
of the dues whech may feed to vour suttess | ur ty your
Gonnm!

3. THE SEVEN SERPENTS
Seven deadly and magical serpents speed ahead of you to
war the evil Archmage uf your coming. Will you be able
i catch there before they ect there?

4° THE CROWN OF KINGS

At the end of your long trek. you face the unknown ter-
tors of the Mampang Fortress. Hidden inside the keep ix
the Crown of Kings — the ultimate goal of the Sorcery!
epuc. But beware! Por if you have not defested the Seven
Serpents, your arrival has been anticipated

Complete with all the magical «spells you will need,
eark book con be played cither on its own or as part
of the whole epic.
wT OO —<« =

FIGHTING FANTASY
Steve Jackson

The world of Fighting fertasy, peopled by Oris, dragons,
zombies and vampires. has captured the imagination of
milfians of readers world-wide. Thrilling adventures of
sword and sorcery come to life in the Iighting Fantasy
Gamebouks, where the reader i¢ the hero, dicing with
death and demons in arch of villains, treasure oc free-
dom.

Now YOU can create your own Fantasy adven-
tures and send your friends off on missions! In
this clearly written handbook. Steve Jackson has put t-
ether everything you need to berome 4 successful
Gameshfaster. Lieser Senmalbgreev Snore ne uewaen
combats, monsters te use, tricks and tactics,

two mini-adventures complete with GamesMaster’s notes
bt recat cart gers ow hnasrns irscanegense pata nsbianta

tess adventures.

THE CRETAN CHRONICLES

BLOW UD OF ALTHEUS
AT THE COLES OF KING MINDS
erTURN OF THE WANCDEKEX

jokn Butterfield, Dawud Honigucann, Philip Parker

Set in the mythological worid of Ancient Greece, this 3-
book epic brings an exciting historiva! dimension to Ad-
venture Gamebouks. YOU are Altheus, sent to avenge
the death of Thesens. your elder brother, whose body lies
tapped in the labyrinth of King Minus. ‘The combat sys-
tem has been extended to incorporate the concepts of
honour aad shame.
ST ht

OUT OF THE PIT
FIGHTING FANTASY MONSTERS

Steve Jackson and Jan Lovingstone

From the dareest corners, trom the deepest pools and
on phnmra carshrnss chess Suspends come

bras warror. Two funded and fifty of shese loathsome
creatures front dangerous worlds ut Fighting
Fantasy ere collected herr — sore are old adversaries,
many you have yet to meet — each of thea described in

detail.
minute Lora rae ee cy er

TITAN
THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

Steve fectson and fen Livingstone
Fdited by Mare Gascvigne

You met the monsters in OLT OF THE Pil —now meer
the rest of the Fighting Fantasy world’ No adventurer
stermskt be without this essential gunde - it contains every-
thing you seed to know. covering the turbulent history of
the wurld, from its creation and early civilizations -
through the devastating War of the Wizards — to the

-day wilderness and anarchy where the delicate

ee Pte Pe tre aioe OY Pe
be overturned .
‘THE TROLLTOOT

WARS

2 ate nc ap arias en thn Dis Hotcting l
(GSAS ce Ser ra oe he Stan availed they
ab wat arc cerns nee el be Fete
Sais unten Coen + opus heb Som Een Aa,
ps oie at iy ie peo emer iors
‘Wo Rae De ses ce haar ac end pote vt
‘Sion! The newer bere the Pat Rigg Petro

Goce by longed itn te ego ee ot ih
ps sock wove met ould spel to aed destin Sr
ey

‘Cha Dah smo the lf he i a te gat
(ow cet large ha sgn oats sont Be pero ae
tates Te tol ak opens cn Nerin
Fe Panic Com ed the bebe aerweys 2 Kine: he
Sedma: sgurioe becae dein For the thet hors he
pape pepiatliarespareng ire mpiion
Beene nb ee sor How Foe cts ethyl
a Sete ese

‘Ae tee epee renege ba wal se

Freier opens Ti Tah an he
