Puree a ad Alleles Dadent 1 Live Bai;

|) FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS |
& Over 10 million copies sold worldwide:

5 oemne
:

Hd "Das get lurks in every comer of Port
sacks: and—infamou 18 city of e vil-docrs!

— 7 _

a.

YOU are an apprentice in the Thieves’ Guild of
Port Blacksand. Tonight is the testing time, the
~ clitax of your training. Your mission is to find
" and steal a priceless gem, the Eye of the Basilisk,
i “ and the special skills you have learned will be

i 4 tested to the limit!

:

i Many terns lie in wait in the darkness of this

evil city’s backstrects and alleys. Will you be able
to accomplish your dangerous task? You have
| until moming to prove yourself.

Two dice, a pencil and an craser are all you need
to ser Out On your mission, YOU decide which
route to take, which creatures to fight and which
dangers to risk.
Cover and tiustrations by Jatin Sipinick

r f
— u {

r
.

ACKSON ANG

MIDNIGHT ROGUE

Port Blacksond — infamous city of thieves! Is reputation
stetches from Zengls to Shazar. And you are one of the
{gues for which Por Blacksond is fos. Ora ess, yu
‘hope to be. Years of taining ty the Thieves’ Guld are
cottingtotheirdiman-the nightot testing Likeevery other
=pprenicin the Guild, you areseta fest fo dec whet
‘oularefitojola the Galld asa full member. Your mission's
‘fined and steal a priceless gem, the Eye the Basilisk, The
pedal hlsyou have leamed aan apprentice willbe tested
1D the limit onight By moming, yu ill be fully edged
‘thief oran outastfalure or worse

ei cqeatures and terrors tien waitin the darkness of Font
Blsckand's alleyways. Wil your skils be sulfa to
sccomplish your dangeroustask? Youkave unl moring to
‘prove yoursll

wo dice. a penal and an exer zeal you nee to embark
‘on thisthiling adventure, which iscomplete with itselabo=
‘le combat syslem and # score thee 0 reson your gaine
celles

Many dangers le shed and your sucess i by no means
‘sertain If up o vou to dace which ute to flow, hich
‘Gaigers to ik aod which edverscioe to gh!

aT
' as . ‘

ho sR st

I pest FR HANEY

in Jape )} Abe
ee 4 ‘

(

wud
">
“bh 1 “TANASE

Le SS Ss

oon

mB
ry

Pi Blick

PUFFIN BOOKS

MIDNIGHT ROGUE

Port Blacksand — infamous city of thieves! Ita reputation
stretches from Zengis to Shazar. And you are one of the
rogues for which Port Blacksand is famous. Or, at least, you
hope to be. Years of training by the Thieves’ Guild are
comting to their climax —the night of testing. Like every other
apprentice in the Guild, you are set a test to decide whether
you are fit to join the Guild asa full member, Your mission is
to find and steal a priceless gem, the Eye of the Basilisk. The
special skills you have learned as an apprentice will be tested
to the limit tonight. By morning, you will be a fully fledged
thief, or an outcast failure or worse.

Evil creatures and terrors lie in wait in the darkness of Port
Blacksand’s alleyways. Will your skills be sufficient to
accomplish your dangerous task? You have until morning to
prove yoursel?

Two dice, 2 pencil and an eraser are all you need to embark
on this thnlling adventure, which is complete with its elabo-
rate combat system and * score sheet to record your gains
and losses.

Many dangers lie ahead and your success is by no means
certain. It's up te you te decide which route to follow, which
dangers to risk and which adversaries to fight!
bd

PUFFIN BOOKS

MIDNIGHT ROGUE

Port Blackwnd — infamous city of thieves! Its reputation
stretches from Zengis to Shazar. And you are one of the
rogues for which Port Blacksand is famous. Or, at least, you
hope to be. Years of taining by the Thieves’ Guild are
coming to their climax -— the night of testing. Like every other
apprentice in the Guild, you are set a test ta decide whether
you are fit te join the Guild asa full member. Your mission is
to find and steal s priceless gem, the Eye of the Basilisk. The
Special skills you have learned 2s. an apprentice will be tested
to the limit tonight. By moming, you will be a fully Dedged
thief, or an outcast failure ot worse.

Evil creatures and terrors lic in wait in the darkness of Port
Blacksand’s alleyways. Will your skilis be sufficient to

accomplish your dangerous fask? You have until morning to
prove yourself?

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you need to embark
on this thrilling adventure, which is complete with its elabo-
rate combat system and a score sheet to record your gains
and losses.

Many dangers lie ahead and your success is by no means
ceTiain. It’s up to you to decide which route to follow, which
dangers to risk and which adversaries to fight!
Fighting Fanlasy Gamebonks

The Warlock of Firetap Mountam
‘The Citadel of Chacs

The Forest af Doom
Starstup Traveller

City ul Thievee

Deathtrap Dungean

island of the Lazard King
Scorpion Sw

Canarhe af the Sac Witch
House ot Hell

Talisman of Death

Space Asssssin

Freeway [aghter

Temple vf Terror

The Rings of Kether
Seas of Blood

Appointment with F.£.A.8.
Rebel Planet
Deano of Ue Deep
Sword of the Samurai
Trial of Champions
Robot Coounandy
Masks of Mayivan
Creature af Davac
Heneath Nightmare Castle
Crypt af the Seccere:
Star Strider
Phantoms of Fear
Mistinight Rogue
Chasms of Malice
Battichlade V'arsjor
Saves of the Abyse
Say Lond
Stealer of Sentls
Daggers: of Darkness
Azinivs ot Death
Portal o Red
Vault of the Vampire
STEVE JACKSON'S SORCTRY!
ne Sharmutavy "ie
2. Khare. Cityport of ime
3. The Seven Seroenss

4 The Crown ot Kones

Fighting, Fantaw The brio. o.torw Bule-play
The Riddine Secver

Out of the Fil Pinkie ge Fes Y Moanmste

Nitan: The Fighbng Pant: uid

Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone

present:

by Graeme Davis
ihestrated by Jolt Sibbick

PUFFIN BOOKS
armors

ake Fra aay
zion, nde Facet
seg teagan inet splat New or Sew Yskven UA
‘engulf Se tan Oa Coa
Tonle Saks QU se ome Aas New Pak

soca peed i nano Ain, tga

et atte

Co ns Src ne tr
Se psegu cmon tore
gon BE
piety

Gk Sooo a ee
eatin ee
fpr as

cay pee

CONTENTS

InrRoDUETION
7

ADVENTURE SHEET
36

BAckcRouND
8

MIDNIGHT ROGUE
INTRODUCTION

Before embarking on youradventure, you must first
determime your own strengths and weaknesses.
While you have been taught during your appren-
ticeship that violence is not always the best way out
of a situation, your training has included sword-
play, and you can handle yourself reasonably well
in a fighi.

To see how effective your training has been, you
must use dice to determine your initial sxrit and
STAMINA Scores. On pages 16-17 there is an Adven-
ture Sheet which you may use to record the details of
an adventure. On it you will find boxes for record-
ing yOUr SKILL and STAMINA scores.

You are advised either to record your scores on the
Adventure Sheet in pencil, or to make photocopies of
the page to use in future adventures.

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter this
total in the sxiut box on the Adventure Sheet.

Roll both dice. Add 12 tu the number rolled and
enter this tofal in the sta MINA box.

There is also a tucK box. Roll one die, add 6 to this
number and enter this total in the .ucK box.

“I
For reasons that will be explained below, sxitt,
STAMINA and LDCK scores change constantly dur-
ing the course of an adventure. You must keep an
accurate record uf these scores and for this reason
you are advised either to write small m the boxes or
to keep an eraser handy. Bul never rub oul your
Initial scores. Although you may be awarded addi-
tional SKILL, STAMINA and LUCK points, these
totals may never exceed your Initial scores.

Your SKILL score reflects your swordsmanship and
weneral fighting expertise; the higher the better.

Your $TA MINA score reflects your general constitu-
tion, your will to survive, your determination and
overall fitness; the higher your stamINA sooure, the
longer you will be able to survive,

Your LUCK score indicates how naturally lucky a
person you are. Luck - and magic ~~ are facts of hfeim
the fantasy world you are about te explore.

Battles

You will often come across payes in the book which
instruct you to fight an opponent of some sort.
Battles are conducted as follows.

First, record your opponent's skit and STAMINA
scores in the first vacant Encounter Box on your
Adventure Sheet. The scores for each opponent are
given in the book each time you have an encounter,

The sequence of combat is then:

t. Roll both dice once for your opponent. Add its
SKILL score. This total is your opponent's Attack

Strength.

2. Roll both dice once for yourself. Add the number
rolled to your current SKILL score. This total is

your Attack Strength.

3 If your Attack Strength is higher than that of your
opponent, you have wounded it: proceed to step
4- If your oppanent’s Attack Strength is higher
than yours, it has wounded you: proceed to step
5- If both Attack Strengths, are the same, you
have avoided each other's blows ~ start the next
Attack Round from step 1 above.

4- You have wounded your opponent, so subtract 2

ints from its STAMINA score. Yor may use

Luc«x here to do additional damage (see below).

5. Your opponent has wounded you, so subtract 2
points from your Own STAMINA score, Again .
you may use .ucx at this stage (see below).

6. Make the appropriate adjustments to either your
opponent's or your own sTAMEnA scores (and
your LUCK score if you used tUcK - see below).

7. Begin the next Attack Round by reprating
sleps 1-6. This sequence continues until either
¥oOu Or your opponent has been reduced to zero
STAMINA (death).

Fighting More Than One Opponent

Sometimes you will find yourself under attack from
more than one person or creature. When this hap-
pens, éach will make a separate attack on you in
each Attack Round, but you must choose which one
you will fight. Attack your chosen target as im a
normal battle. Against the other, vou must throw
for your Attack Strength in the normal way, but
even if your Attack Strength is greater you will not
inflict a wound. Just count this as though you have
parried an incoming blow. However, if your Attack
Strength is lower, you will have been wounded in

the normal way.

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either in
battles or when you come across other situations in
which you could either be Lucky or Uniucky (details
of these are given on the pages themselves), you
may use Luck to make the outcome more favour-
able. But beware! Using Luck is a risky business
and if vou are Unlucky, the results could be dis-
astrous,

10

The procedure for using your 7.uckK is as follows:

Roll two dice. If the number rolled is fess than your
current LUCK score, you have been Lucky and the
result will go in your favour. If the number rolled is
higher than your current LUCK score, you have been
Unlucky and you will be penalized.

This procedure is known as Testiny your Luck. Each
time you Test yor Luck, vou must subtract 1 point
from your current LUCK score. Thus you sill saon
realize that the more you rely on your Luck, the
more Tisky this will become.

Using Fuck in Rattles

On certam pages of the book you will be told to Test
your Luck, and will be told the consequences of your
being Lucky or Unhucky. However, in battles, you
always have the option of using your! ucK either to
inflict @ more severe wound or tu minimize: the
effects of a wound your opponent has just inflicted
on you.

if you have just wounded your opponent, you may
Test your Luck as described above. If you are Lucky,
you have inflicted a severe wound and may subtract
an extra 2 points from your opponent's STAMINA
score. However, if vou are Uniucky, the wound was
a incre grave and you must restore 1 point to your
opponent's STAMINA (ic. instead of scoring the
normal 2 points of damage, you have now scored
only 1).

it
If your opponent has just wounded you, you may
Test your Luck to iry to minimize the wound. If you
are Lucky, you have managed to avoid the full
damage of the blow. Restore 1 point of STAMINA
{i.e. instead of doing 2 points of damage it has done
only 1}. If you are Unlucky, you have taken a more
serious blow. Subtract 1 extra STAMINA point.

Remember that you must subtract 1 pomt from your
own [.UCK score each time you Test your Luck.

Restoring Skill, Stamina and Luck
Skill

Your sk111 soore will not change much during your

adventure. Occasionally, a page may give instruc-
tions to increase or decrease your SKILL score.

Stamina and Prowisions

Your stamina score will change a lot during your
adventure as you fight and undertake arducus
tasks. As you near your goal, yours TAMINA may be
dangerously low and battles may be particularly
risky, so be careful!

Your backpack contains enough Provisions for ten
meals. You may rest and eat at any time except
when engaged in battle. The text will not tell you
when you can do this: it is up to you. Eating a meal
restores 4 STAMINA points. When you eat a meal,
add 4 points to your stamina score and deduct 1

12

point from your Provisions. A separate Provisions
Remaining box is provided on the Adventure Sheet
for recording details of Provisions. Remember that
you have a long way to go, so use your Provisions
wisely!

Additions to your LUCK score are awarded through
the adventure when you have been particularly
lucky. Details are given on the pages of the book.
Remember that, as with skiLL and STAMINA, Your
LUCK score may never exceed its Initial value, unless
specially instructed by the text.

Equipment and Potions
You start your adventure with the following equip-
ment:
A shortsword
A leather jerkin and leggings
A backpack

13
A hand-lamp, made of a small pot of fat with a string
wick — this gives you enough light to see by m most
circumstances, without giving yourself away

A torch

A tinder-hox, for lighting your lamp and torch

5 Bold pieces

Enough Provisions for ten meals — how and when
you use Provisions is explained above

in addition to this equipment, the Thieves’ Guild
supplies you with a magic potion. You may choose
one potion from the following list:

Potion of Skill — restores SKILL poinis

Potion of Strength - restores sta Min A points

Potion of Fortune— restores LUCK points and adds 1
to your Jmfial LUCK score.

These potions may be taken at any time during an
adventure {except when engaged in a battle). Tak-
ing a measure of potion will restore the relevant
score to its [mutial level (and the Potion of Fortune
will add 1 point to your Initial tucK score before
you drink it).

Each bottle of potion cwntains enough for one owa-
sure, i. a characteristic may be restored once dur-
ing an adventure, Remember to crass the potion off
your Adventure Sheet once you have drunk it.

Remember also that vou may only choose one of
these potions to take on your adventure, so choose
wisely!

14

Extra Equipment

During the course of your adventure, you will have
the opportunity to pick up a wide range of things,
some of which may be aseful to you later on in your
adventure. As a thief, you have to be able to move
quickly and quietly at all times, so you must be
careful not to encumber yourself with too many
items. You may never carry more than six items in
your backpack at any time. Your Provisions count as
one item, and your potion counts as another—enter
them in the first two spaces of the Backpack box on
your Adventure Sheet before you start. Note that your
sword, any clothing, and any money that you are
carrying de not count as backpack items.

Special Skills

As well as your SKILL, STAMINA und LUCK, you
have three Special Skills in which you have been
trained during your apprenticeship with the
Thieves’ Guild. Choose three skills from the follow-
ing list, and enter them in the Special Skills box on
your Adpentury Sheet. The skills are: pick POCKK?,
PICK LOCK, CLIMB, SNEAK, MIDE, SPOT HIDDEN
and SECRET SIGNS.

At various points in your adventure, you will be
asked whether or not you have a particular skill
This can be important, so keep a note of those you
have—and don't pretend to have those you don’t!
ADVENTURE SHEFT

SKILL
Treitial:

STAMINA
Initial:

TUCK

jmtiel:

SPECTAL SKILLS

HIDE ;
Pick
| LOCK
“PECK
POCKET _

CLIMB )

SECREI
SIGNS
SNEAK

SPOT
HIDDEN |

PROVISIONS
REMAINING

BACKPACK
ITEMS

vi Ss Ww Re

o

| OTHERITEMS

NOTES

ENCOUNTER BOXES
Sono Stomna= Stamina =
Sites Siiti= - Skatt=
Stomna= Stimei= | Shami

|

Suil= Skill= Skit=
Siiciexe= Stamine= Strntng=
|
; j
.
Snil= Skilt= | Shiti=
Sasvaw= Stunsina= Slantinsc=

BACKGROUND

You stand in the meeting-room of the Thieves’
Guild of Port Blacksand. The room is crowded with
pickpockets, beggars, burglars, cutpurses and
thieves of all descriptions, all come to witness the
Test of Apprentices.

Rannik, the Master of the Guild, stands in the
middle of the room.

‘Does any member here present know of any reason
why this apprentice should not be tested, according
to the traditions of the Guild?’ he says. Even though
you know this is just a formality, your stomach
knots as you wait for a challenge.

When no challenge comes, Rannik turns to you.

‘A week ago," he says, ‘a merchant named Brass
acquired a gem known as the Eye of the Basilisk. He
will doubtless have it hidden somewhere in or
around the city, His symbol is a coin — that is all the
information you will be given. For your test, you
must find and steal the Eye of the Basilisk. Dusk has
just fallen outside, and you have until dawn to
complete your test, Do you understand?”

You nod,
‘Then,’ says Rannik, ‘it just remains for me to say be
careful, remember your training - and good luck.”

18

The assembled Guild members murmur their agree-
ment as you leave the meeting-room to collect your
equipment. Although you have checked it a dozen
limes already, you go over it all one last time as you
make ready to leave the Guild. There are a sword, a
few coins, a hand-lamp, a torch, a tinder-box, some
food, a magic potion supplied by the Guild, and a
backpack. Having satisfied yourself that everything
is in order, you leave the Thieves’ Guild by one of
overa dozen concealed entrances, and head into the
darkened streets of Port Blacksand.

19
i-2

1
As you leave the Guild, your mind works quickly,
listing the places where you might find some in-
turmation as to the gem's whereabouts. Most of the
nich merchants in the town have houses near the
held Gate; if you can find Brass’s house, you may be
able to find some useful information there. ‘Then
again, the Merchants’ Guild is just across the Mar
ket Square, and if Brass ts an important merchant,
he’s borind to have a suite of offices there, Finally,
there's the Noose, the area of tawn around the
Tmeves’ Guild. You hardly ever see a merchant
there, but it’s the best place in Allansia for picking
up all kinds of gossip and rumours. Where will you
try first?

fhe Merchants’ Guild? Turn to 129
Brass’s house? Turn to 156
The Noose? Luin to 203

»
-~

The water is icy cold. You Start to wade across the
pond, and instantly yourlegs are attacked by a pack
of small but vicious cold-water Piranha. You trv to
light them off, but it isn’t easy — vou can hardly see
them through the weed-choked water, and you end
up splashing a lot but hitting very little. Fight the
Mranha as a single enemy, subtracting 1 point From
your Attack Strength for this combat.

PIRANHA SKILL 6 STAMINA 4

if you win, turn to 8
3-4

3
You try the door, but it ts locked. If you have rrcx
Lock skill, turn to 259. Lf not, will you try the door
with the fish symbol (turn to 163), or will you give
up on the Merchants’ Guild and look for clues in
Brass’s house (if you haven't been there before) by
turning to 156, or set oul in search of the Eve of the
Basilisk armed only with the information you
already have (turn to 144)?

4
You find a suitable place for climbing, and start to
scale the wall. If you are using a rope and grapnei,
turn ta 15, Lf you are not, turn to 257.

Your weapon flies with deadly accuracy, and
knocks the torch out of its holder. It falls to the floor,
sputters fora few seconds, and goes out, You decide
to douse your own torch as well, just in case the
light from that casts another unfriendly shadow. It
is now pitch-dark, and you feel your way along the
walls of the cavern, trying to find the passage which
will take you out of it. Tesi your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 9g. If you are Unlucky, turn to 220.

6
You open the cage, and the Dwarf springs out,
reaching for your throat. He seems to prow larger as
he attacks you; his skin becomes scaly, and spines
erupt from his head and back. You have been
tricked by a Shapechanger. Now you must fight for
your life.

SHAPECHANGER SKILL 10 STAMINA I0

if you defeat the Shapechanger, leave the room and
Calry on to 1§5.
7

You nun out of the house and lose yourself in the
night, twisting and turning through winding alleys
to throw off any possible pursuit. You know that the
crash will have roused the whole household, and
you decide to wait foran hour or so before returning
to the house, to let them all get back to sleep. You
can use this time to visit the Merchants’ Guild — if
you haven't already — by turning to 129, or you can
simply wait. In either case, you will have no trouble
getting into the house when you return, because
you have been there before. So make a note of entry
276, and start there when you return to the house.

You reach the plinth safely, and stand clutching the
statue for a moment, catching your breath before
you look at the inscription. Brushing the dead
leaves and other rubbish away, you reveal the fol-
lowing words:

My enemy’s a heart of stone,

My arrow never flies,

Yet when my arrow heads for home,
The gate of death yawns wide,

You puzzle for a while, wondering what to do. As
you lean against the statue, it shifts slightly, making
you jump. You push it, and it shifts again — the
whole thing is made to swivel back and forth. The
arrow must be the key to getting into the barrow.
What will you do?

Point it at the barrow? Turn to 294
Pomt it at the site of the

house? Turn to 346
Point it at the standing stone

by the barrow? Turn to 383
9-10

9
You push past the men and run out into the night.

leaving the Kat and Ferret behind you. As you
wander through the shadowy alleys of the Noose,
you decide on your next move. What will it be?

Try to lind a beggar {if you
haven't already)? Turn to 26
Visit Madame Star (if vou
haven't already)? Turn to 117
Or will you leave the Noose
and gu elsewhere? Tum to 387
10

You put your ear to the door, and are taken com-
pletely by surprise when a plank whips round and
hits you! Lose 2 STAMINA points. The ‘door’ sud-
denly unfolds into a great humanoid shape: it is a
Wood Golem, and you must fight it.

WOOD GOLEM SKILLS
When you win a round of combat, turn to 223.

STAMINA 6

i1~-12

You try to tell yourself that this isn’t happening.
Whoever heard of fighting your own shadow? You
dodge to one side as the shadowy figure attacks,
and its weapon strikes the cavern wall with a very
solid-sounding clang. Your shadow has the same
SKILL and STAMINA Scores as you do; fight it nor-
mally. If you win, turn to 237.

2

You hurl yourself to the floor, and the thing, what-
ever it is, misses you by a whisker. It hovers above
the dead thief’s body for a fraction of asecond, then
sinks down into it, soaking into the dead flesh like
water Soaks into a sponge. The body twitches once,
and then drags itself to its feet. Your scalp tingles as
the dead eyes stare sightlessly into yours, and the
dead thief shambles to attack you. Will you fight the
Animated Corpse (turn to 82), or try to run away
(turn to 192)?
13735

13
Very slowly, you reach for the key. The scorpion
doesn't move as you take it. Breathing a sigh of
relief, you turn the key in the lock and the greatiron
door swings open. You step through the doorway
(turn to 79}.

4

the men stare in amazement as you flick the knife
expertly between your Angers. It moves faster and
taster, tapping the table between your fingers, but
nevet touching them. At the end of a minute, you
hand back the knife, smiling. The men hand over 10
gold pieces. You try te engaye them in conversa-
non. but it quickly becomes clear that they know
nothing of interest to you. You will have to look
elsewhere for information. What will you do now?
You can ask Bald Morn what he knows about Brass
(turn f0 195), or leave the Rat and Ferret and try your
luck elsewhere in the Noose {tur back to 203 and
choose again).

15

You haul yourself level with the top of the wall. To
your horror, you see that it is studded with glass,
which has gradually been culting your rope as you
climbed. The mstant you reach the top, the last
strand of your rope gives way. The rope and grapnel
iS now useless: cross it aff your Adventure Siteet, Roll
two dice. If the result is equal to your SKILL score or
less, turn te 257- If not, turn te 209.
16-18

16

Skirting carefully round the palace, you find a
stretch of wall where you think you will have a good
chance of climbing undetected. You look around
quickly, see no one, and start to climb. You have
nearly reached the top of the wall when you heara
shout from below, The Palace Guard has spotted
you. What will you do now?

Keep on climbing?
Jump down and try to get away?

Turn to 146
lurn to 392

47

Nardly daring to breathe, you set about disarming
the trap. After a few seconds of careful work, there
is a click, and a handful of small darts — no thicker
than needles ~ falls out on to the ground. In the
moonlight you can see something sticky glistening
on their points: poison intended to kill thieves. You
are about to start work on the door when you hear
booted feet in the distance, and the unconsGous
guard begins to groan, Rather than stay and ex-
plain, you dodge into an alley which runs down one
side of the building, looking for some way in that
isty’t quite so exposed. Turn to 220.

18
You drop on the other side of the palace wal), but
the guards are waiting for you, and you are cut
down before you can get to your feet. You should
have known better than to try to break into the
palace. Your adventure ends here.

19-20

19
You reach out and touch the hunched figure. It
turns round with an inhuman snarl and you find
yourself staring into the burning, hate-filled eyes of
a Ghoul. You have disturbed its nocturnal feast, and
now you must fight to keep vourself off the menu.

GHOUL
if the Ghoul hits you four times, turn to 171. If you
kill the Ghoul, turn to. 57.

sxiit§8 STAMINA 7

20
You reach in and touch the disc. Too late, you notice
the silver wire which connects it to the second
Crystal Warrior. Before you realize what has hap-
pened, you feel the crystal sword resting lightly on
the back of your neck. Your only hope is to try to
take the disc without activating the trap any further.
if you have Prcx rocKET Skill, turn to 208. If you do
not, turn to 49.

21-22

21
Some instinct tells you that there is something very
odd about one of the chests in the strongroom, and
you leave hurriedly, closing the iron door behind
you. You've heard that some people build fake
strongrooms full of traps just to make mincemeat of
thieves, and hide their valuables somewhere elsc.
What will you do next? You can examine the desk
(Lurn to go), or leave the Merchants’ Guild stealthily
and search for clues in Brass’s house (if you haven't
been there: before) by turning to 156, or set out in
search of the Eye of the Basilisk without looking for
any more information (hin to 144).

22
You head for the Singing Bridge. You remember
hearing something about a place underneath it -
perhaps that's where the Eye of the Basilisk is
hidden. Going down some steps at the side of the
bridge, you come to a small wooden hut, with the
words KEEP OUT painted on the door. Will you
knock on the door (turn to 307), or—if you have rick
LOCK skill or a set of lock-picks — try to pick the lock
(turn to 141)?

23-25

33
The corpse drops to the ground, but as you watch,
the spectral blue face oozes back out of the dead
fiesh, and hangs in the air before you, chuckling
evilly_ Itis a Possessor Spirit, and you must fight it.
if you have a magic weapon, turn to 142; if not, turn
to 111.

24
You hurry silently across the darkened room, feel-
ing your way along one wall. You feel another wall
in front of you, and quickly y find a doorway and a
wooden door. You push and pull, but it doesn’t
open, it must be locked. If you have prcx tocx skill,
turn to 324. If you do not, turn to 245-

25

Hardly daring to breathe, you pick your way
through the bones and other debris. It seems like
hours before you are past the holes, but finally you
make it. You let out a sigh of relief, and as you do so
the Grubs shoot from their burrows again — you
shudder to think how sensitive their hearing is.
Turn to 84.
26

26

You walk quietly akmg the Noose, looking lor a
beggar. All beggars in Port Blacksand are members
of the Thieves’ Guild, and they can be a very valu-
able source of information. After a little way, you
see Rargo the Wheeler trundling towards you along
the darkened street. He was a soldier once, but lost
both his legs in a war many years ago. Since then,
he has been reduced to begging. pushing himself
about the city in a little cart. Bargo recognizes you as
you approach, and greets you with a nod.

Hello, young ‘un,’ he says. “Out on your test, eh?’
You nod, and ask him if he knows anything about
Brass. Ife shrugs.

Just what evervbody knows,” he says. ‘He's a big
merchant, with a house by the Field Gate and an
office in the Merchants’ Guild. Can‘t be much help,
Pmafraid” What will you do next?

Thank him and give him a gold

piece? Turn to 234
Co tee the Rat and Perret? Turn to 309
Visit Madame Star? Turn tu 117

Or will you leave the Noose and
try elsewhere? Turn to 387
27-29

27

In your hurry to get out of the cavern, you fail to
notice a series of holes in the passage wall. Six small
darts shoot across the passage at chest height. Roll
one die to see how many of them hit you. Each dart
that hits causes 1 STAMINA point of damage; you
may halve the total damage (rounding fractions up)
if you successfully Test your Luck. If you are still
alive, carry on down the passage to 191.

28
You draw your sword as the men approach, and
back against the wall. The other customers scramble
out of the way — they don't want to get involved ina
fight. Fight the men one ata time.

SKILL STAMINA
First THUG 7 6
Second THUG 6 6
Third THUG 5 7

Fight three rounds of combat, then turn to 332.

29
You try to prise the lid off the chest— you are certain
that the key to getting the Fye of the Basilisk lies
inside. As you attack the chest, you hear a faint
snapping sound from inside it, followed by a stony
cteak from the second Crystal Warnor. You look up
sharply, but are too slow to do anything about the
crystal sword which is descending on your neck.
Your adventure and your life both end here.

30

39
Your hair bristles as you approach the barrow -
you can almost feel the ancient power flowing
around you. The trees silhouetted ayainst the dark
sky suddenly seem threatening, their branches
reaching out to seize you . . . you shake your head
to clear out these wild ideas, and concentrate on
what you have to do. You walk right round the
barrow, looking for a way in, but as far as you can
sce it is just a plain grassy mound. There is a
standing stone on one side of the barrow, but you
can’t find any kind of entrance. If you have srot
HIDDEN skill, turn to 132. If vou don't, turn to 206.

31

31
The two Skeletons crumble back into dust, hope-
fully for good this time. You have little time to enjoy
your victory, however. for the Skeleton on the
plinth begins fo rise as soon as its two guards are
destroyed. Hefting the huge longsword which lay
beside it, the Skeleton Lord advances slowly
towards you.

SKELETON LORD

Every time the Skeleton Lord wounds you, you lose
2STAMINA points, and the Skeleton Lord adds 1 to
its Attack Strength for the following round only. If
you win, turn to 288.

SKILLS STAMINA 6

32-34

Ped
You look all the way around the smaller house. The
only way in seems to be a door on one side. You try
the handle, but the door is locked. If you have pick
LOCK skill and you want tu try to pick the lock, turn
to 211. If not, or if you don’t want to pick the lock,

you must decide what to de next. You can try the
house across the street (with the coin symbol) by
turning te 384. or you can give up on the houses
altogether and go to the Merchants’ Guild (if you
haven't already been there) by retracing your steps
to the Market Square and turning to 129.

33
in an instant, the Shapechanger has bent the bars of
the cage back, and leaps out to attack you. Fight it

normally.
SHAPECHANGER
If you win, leave the room and carry on to 155.

SKItT 10 STAMINA 1th

The room is about sae ds square, and entirely
hewn out of rock, an indication of how deep under-
ground you ate. The only thing you can see in the
room is a large, golden-brown lizard, which lies
bleeding and apparently dead in one corner, Will
you go over and examine the lizard (turn to 228), or
leave the room immediately and carry on up the

passage (turn to 252)?
35-38

35
You just manage to raise your sword in time to fend
off the attack. You have disturbed a Ghoul from its
nocturnal feast, and now you must fight to keep
yourself off the menu.

GHOUL

If the Ghoul hits you four times, turn to 171. If you
kill the Ghoul, turn to §7.

sku 8 STAMINA 7

36
There are just tov many guards, You fight foras long
as you can, but eventuaily something crashes into
the back of your head and everything goes black.
When you wake up, you are in a dungeon cell. Your
testis over, and your life may not have nwch longer
to run. Your adventure ends here.

37
You leap forward, and your first attack strikes home

before the Ogre has a chance to cuillect its wits. It
howls in pain, and clambers to its feet to defend
itself. Fight the Ogre normally.

OGRE SKILL §

[f you win, turn to 342.

STAMINA 10

38
You aim a blow at the back of the guard’s unpro-

tected head. Roll two dice. If the result is less than
your SKILL score, turn to 205. Hf not, turn to 320.

39

38 .
You look at the symbol carefully. It is one of the
secret signs of the Thieves’ Guild, but part ol it is
missing: the thief must have died before he could
finish it. You think it is the symbol tor illusion, but
you can’t be sure. You pause for a few seconds to
offer a silent prayer to the God of Thieves, asking
him to look after the dead thief in the next world as
well as looking after you in this world, and then you
prepare to more on. Turn to 302.

40-41

40

Your first thought is to hold your breath, so that the
deadly spores can’! get into your system — but you
are too late. Your eyes start to water and you begin
to choke, slumping to the ground in a fit of helpless
coughing, knowing that each breath brings more of
the spores into your body. Youradventure and your
life both end here.

41
As soon as the wire is cut, the Crystal Warrior
attacks you.

CRYSTAL WARRIOR $ sktiti0 STAMINA 13

If you are using a stone axe, fight the Crystal War-
rior normally. Otherwise, you have to use the
pommel of your sword, as the only available blunt
weapon — deduct 2 points from your Attack
Strength during this fight. If vou win, you take the
obsidian disc (it counts 2s a backpack item). Then
turn to 326.

42-44

It's no good, you just can’t see any way out. You
have no option but to return to the Thieves’ Guild
and report your failure. Your adventure ends here.

43
You reach the great stone slab at the end of the

passage. It is immense, filling the height and width
of the passage, and it appears to be at least a couple
of feet thick. Will you try to force it open (turn to
343), look for some hidden mechanism (turn to 303
only if you have sFoT HIDDEN skill), or look for a
way around the slab (turn to 198}?

+4
One of the guardsmen takes your money with a
chuckle. ‘All right,” he says. ‘We didn’t sce you this
time. Just make sure we don't see you again.’ The
patrol marches on. Turn to 177.
45-46

45

You start along the balcony towards the landing at
the far end, but you haven’t gone more thana step
or two when one of the doors— the first on the nght—
pens. You stop dead. A white-clad igure comes
silently out of the room and begins to cross the
balcony towards you. it appears t» be a young man
ina white robe. What will you do?

I'ry to hide? Turn to 215

Run out of the house? Turn lo 110

Attack? Turn te 281
46

You go into the room. There's more treasure here
han you could ever carry, but a pexkettul of gems
will be enough to make you rich when you get cut of
here. Although the object of your test is the Eye of
the Basilisk, the Guild didn’t say that you couldn't
keep anything else you found along the way, You
reach forward to pick up some gems~ and suddenly
the pile of treasure rears up, and you find yoursell
wrapped in the coils of a brightly coloured snake.
Los€ 2 STAMINA points as if squeezes you, You
have heard of the Scitalis or Lreasture Snake, which
lraps its prey with illusions of treasure — you have
fallen for its illusion, and now you must fight for
vour fife’

SCITALIS SKILL & SYAMINA 10

If vou win the first round of conpbal, the snake is not
wounded, Dul you have escaped fram its cous, Li
47

you lose, you ate stil trapped and the snake
squeezes you for another 2 STAMINA points of
damage. You cannot wound the snake until you are
free of its coils. If you win, turn to 168.

47
You approach the door quietly, and listen at it for a
few moments. You hear nothing, all is quict in the
servants’ quarters. What will you do now?

Open the door? furn to 255
Go up the stairs? Turn to 368
Examine the suit of armour beside

the stairs? Turn to 62

48-50

48

You craw! davedly into the shadows, and close your
eyes, waiting for the Gargovle to strike. The sound
of its wings comes closer and closer, and then it
suddenly recedes. You look cautiously upwards to
see the Gargoyle’s shadowy form back on its rooftop
perch. Obviously it didn’t see where you fell; you
thank the gods of luck that it is tow stupid to keep
looking for very long- Add 1+ tuck point for this
fortunate escape. What will you do now?

Try the back door?
Climb to the roof?

Turn to 159
Turn to 4

49
Sweat breaks out on your forehead as, painfully
slowly, you lift the disc off the silver wire. Then, just
at the wrong moment, an involuntary twitch makes
you drop it, and it lands with a thump on the silver
wire. The Crystal Warrior's sword bites into vour
neck. Your test and your life beth end here.

50
The door is not locked, so you open it and creep

stealthily into the room. It is furnished with a single
bed, a wardrobe and a dressing table. Someone —a
child, judging by the size —is asleep in the bed. You
can see nothing of value in the room, just a few dolls
on the dressing table and floor. Suddenly, a floor-
baard creaks loudly under your feet. The sleeping
torm in the bed murmurs and stirs slightly. Will you
go further into the room (turn to 60), or leave the
room {turn to 201}?
51

51

You hit the door a second time, but still it doesn’t
budge. The spores are thick in the air now, and
although the cloth over your face gives you some
protection, it doesn’t last for ever, Your eyes begin
to water, and you start to choke on the spores.
You sink to the ground in a fit of uncontrollable
coughing, knowing that each breath takes the
deadly spores deeper into your body. Your adven-
ture and your life both end here.

52-54

52

The symbol is familiar, but you can't make it wut.
You wish you'd worked harder at learning the
secret signs — this might be an important clue, and
you have no idea what it means, If you have sroT
HIDDEN Skill, turn to 314. If vou de not, turn to 212.

33
Wood Golems are highly resistant to all forms of
magic. Your magical weapon will behave like a
normal weapon for this combat. Continue fighting
the Wood Golem.

WOOD GOLEM
if you win, turn to 136.

SKILL 8 STAMINA 4

54

Your heart rises as you recognize the sign for a
hidden mechanism. There is a way out of here— but
where? You look at the walls again, and suddenly
realize that the brick on which the symbol is
scratched is loose. Pulling the brick out of the wall,
you find a small lever. The door swings open with a
click as you push the lever down, and closes behind
you as you go back into the study. What will you do
now? You can examine the desk (turn to go), orleave
the Merchants’ Guild stealthily and search for clues
in Brass’s house (if you haven't been there before)
by turning to 156, or set out in search of the Eye of
the Basilisk without looking for any more informa-
bon (turn to 144).
55-56

55
You put the key marked ‘L’ in the left-hand lock ang
the key marked ‘R‘ in the right-hand lock, and turn
them together. Turn to 335.

56

You reach into the gap. The tips of your fingers
brush something — a catch of some kind. This must
be the mechanism that opens the door. You pull it,
and with a sickening {hunk a row of spikes shoots
into your hand. The sptkes are poisoned. Roll four
dice ~ if the result is equal lo your current STAMINA
or less, you lose 2 S1AMINA points. If the result
is more than your current STAMINA, you lose
4 STAMINA points. Also, you lose 1 SKILL point.
Go back to 43 and reconsider your options.

57-59

57

The Ghoul falls to the ground at your fcet, twitches
once and ts still, After pausing to catch your breath,
you investigate what it was eating. and find to your
disgust that if is 2 human corpse. Searching the
chewed body quickly, you turn up 2 gold pieces and
a dagger. Make a note of them on your Adventure
Sheet, then turn to 246.

58

if you have prex Lock skill, roll two dice. If the
result is equal to your SKILL score or less, turn to
139. If not, or if you do not have pick Lock skill,
turn to 221.

59
As you lunge through the hail of missiles towards
the far side of the room, you spot a door set into an
alcove. If you have spor ulpoen skill, tum to 126.
If you do not, turn to 317.
60-61

60
You move cautiously forward, and the person in the
bed — a young girl—sits bolt upright with a shaiter-
ingscteam. You have nochoice but torun before the
whole household is woken. You hurry back to the
Market Square, planning vour next move. It’s too
dangerous to go back tu Brass’s house, so you will
have to do without any information that you could
have gained from there. That leaves you two op-
tions — either you can go to the Merc hants’ Guild, if
you haven '‘talready done so (turn to 129), or youcan
hope that you have enough information tu find the
ye of the Basilisk and set out in search of it (turn to

144).

61
You shrink back into the shadows, but your luck is
out: you knock something over as you clo so, and it
falis to the floor with a crash. The breathing stops
abruptly, and you hear a faint groan. Whatever is
there, you've woken it up. What will you do now?

Dash out and climb up the
drampipe (if you haven't

already done so)? Purn to 225
Dash out and climb to the roof by
some other means? lurn to 4

Stand still and hope for the best? Turn 110
OS = —

62-63

62

The armour is about a hundred years old, and m
very good condition. It has been inlaid with gold
and silver, and it is probably quite valuable. You
can’tcarry it out with you, though, so there's no real
point in standing looking at it. You start to fern
away, and then you notice something behind the
armour, glinting yellow in the light from your hand-
lamp. You can’t see what it is, and you're not sure
that vou'll be able to reach it. If you want to try, turn
to 147 if you have PICK POCKET skill, 109 if you do
not.

If you don’t want to try to retrieve the object, you
can either go up the stairs (turn to 368) or try the
door under the landing (turn to 47).

$3
You cover your mouth and nose, hoping that this
will protect you from the worst of the spores, and
charge the door. Roll two dice. If the result is equal
to your SKILL score or less, turn to 1ge. If not, turn to

390.

64-65

bg

Madame Star shrugs. “Well,” she says, ‘I do have a
living to make, you know, I can't go round doing
things for free.” [t's obvious that you'll get nowhere
without money. If you agree to her price of 2 gold
pieces, take the money off your Adventure Sheet and
turn te 289. If you don’t have 2 gold pieces, or if you
don't want to pay, you will have to leave her house,
and decide what to do next. Will you:

Go to the Rat and Ferret (if you
haven't already)? Turn to 309
Try to find a beggar (if you
haven't already)? Turn to 26
Or will you leave the Noose and
try elsewhere? Turn to 387
65

You cannot avert your eyes in tire, and find your-
self staring into those big, glowing yellow eves.
They are the last thing you see, as the Basilisk's gaze
turns you to stone. Your adventure ends here,
SS — Eee OO a. — —<—_ ee  —

66
Bald Morri takes your money with a scowl, clears tus
throat and spits. ‘Brass,’ he says, ‘ts a yellow metal.
analloy of copper and zinc." You start toexplaim that
you meant Brass the merchant, but he interrupts
you. ‘That's all you're getting for that kind of

| money,’ he growls. ‘Now drink up and be off.” You

have no option but to finish your drink and leave the
tavern, What will you do next?

Try to find a beggar (if you
haven't already)? Turn to 26
Visit Madame Star (if you
haven't already)? Turn te 2117
Or will you leave the Noose
and try elsewhere? Turn to 387

67-69

67

Helding your torch before you, you edge closer to
your shadow. It fades as the light strikes it, becom-
ing less substantial as you move closer. It seems to
sense the danger ol the light, since it makes no move
to attack you as you head for the passage that leads
out of the cavern. Lf you have sPot HIDDEN skill,
turn to 382. If you do not, tim to 27.

65
You can't see whatever is throwing the furniture
about, but as a small table rises into the air and flies
towards you, you realize that there is a Poltergeist in
the room. Will you back out of the room (turn to
121), or try to make it to the other side (turn to 339)?

6g
You find a passage leading out of the chamber and
hurry down it, eager to escape the spores. ‘The
passage forks, and you can see a number of turnings
leading off from each side of either passage, like a
maze. Do you have a map? If you have, turn to 362;
if not, turn to Sz.
70-74

je
You put your ear against the door and listen, but
hear nothing. What will you do now?

Gu ito the room? Turn to 50
Listen at the door an the left? Turn to 277
Listen at the second door on

the right? Turn to 76

Your finger is cut, but not seriously. You have fost
the game, and the men insist that you pay up. Do
you have 5 gold pieces? If you have, cross them off
your Adventure Sheet and tum to 227. If you do not
have § gold pieces, turn to 122.

72-73

You climb rapidly, and are halfway up the wall
before the Footpads even realize what you are
doing. Turn to 226-

73
You realize that you can’t harm the Gargoyle with-
out a magical weapon, but there may be another
way of dealing with it. Do you have:

A rope and grapne!? lurn to 125
A black hooded cloak? Turn to 263
A length of heavy chain? furn te 349
74-76

74

The guard does not seem to be particularly alert. He
leans against the wall a few feet from the door, and
tram the way his head keeps nodding, he appears to
be on the verge of dropping off te sleep. You can try
sneaking past him (if you have sneak skill, turn to
326, if you do not, turn to 372) or bribing him (turn to
345), or you can look around the building for an
unguarded entrance (turn to 220).

75

You approach the trees carefully, your eyes fixed on
the place where you last saw movement. As you
draw closer, you can see movement again — there is
definitely something in there, but it's too dark to see
quite what itis. Turn to 358 if you have SNEAK skill,
127 if you don’t; or you can decide not to investigate
further, and head straight for the Merchants’ Guild,
avoiding the trees — turn to 246.

76
You listen at the door, but hear nothing. Pushing it
gently open, you see a young man in a large four
poster bed, sound asleep and snoring softly. A
glance round the room reveals nothing of interest,
so you leave, closing the door softly behind you.
What will you do now?

Listen at the next door? Turn to 7o
Listen at the door across the
passage? Turn to 277

Try the door at the other end
of the landing? Turn to 321
77-78

Or you can leave the house, and do one of two
things. You can try to find the Eve of the Basilisk, if
you think you have enough mformation (turn to
444), or you can look for more information in the
Merchants’ Guild, if you haven't been there before
(turn to 129).

77 -

The garden is old and overgrown, mare like a jungle
these days, but in places you can still see traces of a
flower-bed, proving that it used to be = garden.
Heading towards the blackened cleanns where the
house once stood, you see what looks like 2 statue 3
few yards to your left. Will you inspect the statuc
(turn to 301) or go straight across what was once the
lawn to the site of the house (turn to 287)?

wd ack inst a wall as the
sword an agai ,
patos ies round you. eae massively built
villain steps forward, armed with a length of heavy
chain. ‘Well, well,’ he chuckles unpleasantly. ‘It's
wotasward. Come on, then—let’s sce how guod you
are!’ You must fight the Footpad.

FOOTPAD SKILL §

If you roll double 1 on your attack dice at any time,
‘Vest your Luck. If you are Lucky, carry on fighting. lt
you are Unlucky, turn to 166. If you win, turn to21 8.

STAMINA 6

79-81

73
Going through the door, you find yourself in a
passage, which leads off left and right. Will vou go
lett (turn to 241) or right (turn 10.351)?

Bo
You walk stealthily down the side-alley, which
appears to be deserted. Will you open Lhe door(turn
te 259), climb the drainpipe (turn to 225), or leave

and continue walking round the building (turn to
271)?

hi
On instinct, you set off down the lett-hand passage,
but you are not sure which is the right way, and
soon you realize thal you are lost in a maze of
tunnels. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 178.
If you are Unlucky, turn to 370.

§2-85

82
You stand firm, with your weapon ready, us the
Animated Corpse shambles towards you. Fight it
normally.
ANIMATED CORPSE SKILL 5 STAMINAEB

Because it moves so slowly, you can run away (turn
to 192) after winning a round of combat if you wish.
If you destroy the Animated Corpse, turn to 23.

83
You head for the door, but belore you reach it you
step on something under the carpet. There is 2 loud
click, Turn to 106.

S83

A few yards further on, the passage widens again,
and is faced with dressed stone as before. You come
to a door in the right-hand side of the passage. Will
you listen at the door (tum to 10), try to open it (turn
to 140), or ignore it and carry on down the passage
(turn to 374)?

85

Your mind works quickly, and you decide that the
easiest way to defeat your own shadow is lo stop
casting it. But how? If you have mips skill — you
must have the skill itself; a black hooded cloak isn’t
youd enough here — roll two dice. Lf the result
equal to your SKILL score or Jess, turn to 184. Lt the
result is more than your sk1ti_score, or if you don't
have Hive skill, turn te 321.

86-87

86

Something makes you suspicious, and you decide
to make sure that the Dwarf is telling the troth.
After all, the dead thief you passed was severely
wounded in this room, yet there’s nothing here
but a caged Dwarf without a scratch on him. ‘Who
is the Master of the Thieves’ Guild? you ask. If the
Dwarf is really a thief, he will know the answer.

The Dwarf does not answer your question. He
reaches through the bars of the cage, trying to catch
hold of you. He seems to grow bigger; his skin
becomes green and scaly, and spines erupt all along
his back. With a ferocious snarl, the Shapechanger
bends the bars of the cage, preparing to attack you.
if you want to stand and fight the Shapechanger,
turn to 33_ If you prefer to leave the raom before it
frees itself, roll two dice. If the result is equal to
YOUT SKILL score or less, turn to 229; if not, tum

Lo 367.

87

Carefully, you move the obsidian disc into the light.
As the light strikes the disc, it is absorbed, and
the disc is unharmed. You reach carefully beneath
the disc to take the . The dise is very heavy to
hold steady in the light one-handed, and it begins
to waver — roll two dice. If the result is equal to
YOur SKILL score or fess, turn to 214; if not, turn

to 380.
88

You notice something glinting in the blanket of
mould that covers the end of the passage. Looking
closer, you see that it is metal — part of a doorknob,
by the look of it. You reach to turn the doorknob,
and then you see something else. To one side of the
door that must be underneath all the mould, there ts
a lump which you thought was just an irregularity
in the rock, But as you look more closely, you can
sve that it is a body. The mould has grown over it
and obscured its shape, but it is definitely a body-
You stop and think. You remember hearing some-
where that there are types of mould which fire
clouds of spores into the air the moment that any-
thing disturbs them. The spores are poisonous, and
cause death almost instantly, giving the mould a
fresh supply of organic matter to grow on. The
problem is, you have to open the door without
disturbing the mould.

If you have pick rocker skill, turn to 197. Ui not,
what will you do? Will you try to burn the mould
away with your torch (fur to 160), or cover your
nose and mouth, charge the door and hope for the
best (turn ta 115)?

89

At last the Chest Creature is destroyed. A rapid
search of the strongroom reveals nothing of interest
except a small silver whistle (make a note of this on
your Adventure Sheet if you take it — it is nol a
backpack item), and you turn your attention to how
you ate going to get out. The door is closed fast, and
no amount of pushing or pulling will shift it. There
is no keyhole on the mside, so you can’t pick the
lock. You are about to give up in despair when you
see a symbol scratched on the wall. Turn to §4 if you
have SECRET stcns skill, 349 if you don’t.
ge-g1

90
You search the desk thormughly. There are three

drawers on one side; two are locked, but you find
some keys in a third drawer, and unlock them. In
the desk vou find the following:

2 key, marked with the letter ‘L’;

coins totalling to gold meces;

2 deed of purchase, showing that Brass recently
bought a piece of land called Barrow Hill;

4 letter from the Wizard Brabantius, telling Brass
that “Ihe Barrow Hill property hs heen refitted according

1O woarr sestriachios

Make a note of anything you take on your Adventire
Set. The two documents are an important clue:
make a note oi the number of this paragraph on
your Adventure Sheet. What will vou do next? You
can examine the iron door (turn ta 377), or leave the
Merchants’ Guild stealthily and search for clues in
Srass s house (if you haven't been there before) by
turming te 156, or set out in search of the Eye of the
Basilisk without looking for any more information
‘turn to 144)

gT
You hold your breath and throw yourself at the
doer. There's no time to think — vou nrust try to
creak down the door and vet out of the deadly
cloud. Roll two dice. Hf the result is equal to your
SKELL Score Of less, turn to 190; if not, turn to 107.
92-95

g2

You open the door, and throw the bottle into the
darkened room. lt breaks against the floor, and its
contents spill out, dispelling the magical darkness
and lighting the room brightly. If you have killed the
monster in the room, turn to 34: if not, turn to 200.

93
‘The sign tells you that the door is trapped. If you
have SPOT HIDDEN skill, turn to 153. If not, you
decide to leave the door alone and look lor some
other way in —turn to 220.

94
You feel your way along the cavern walls, and

finally find the entrance to the passage. You daren’t
light a torch until you are we'll clear of the cavern, so
you prope your way forward in darkness for a few
paces. Suddenly you stumble, and as you do so you
hear a click followed by a shower of darts flying
above your head. Gain 1 LUCK point for your lucky
fall. If you hadn't stumbled, the darts would surely
have hit you. Lighting a torch, you follow the

passage to ig1.

You retreat from the room as quietly as you can.
That dog looked awfully big, and the last thing you
want to do at the moment is to have it wake the
whale house with its barking. You decide to try the
upper floor — turn to 368.

96-98

96
You lash out at the nearest Footpad, but he parries
the blow with a chair-leg and the gang closes round
you. You shrink back into a deep doorway, clutch-
ing your sword in both hands. The doorway gives
you a limited amount of cover, so that the Footpads
can only come at you one at a time. Fight the first

three Footpads normally-

SKILL STAMINA
First FOOTPAD 7 5
Second FOOTPAD 6
Third FOOTPAD 5 4

If you defeat them, hurn tc 196.

97
You try to dodge between the guardsmen who
surround you. Roll two dice. If the result is less than
or equal to your SKILL, turn to 188. If the result is
more than your skrit, farn te 162.

g8
Your torch quickly ignites the Wood Golem, and it
stumbles about, burning fiercely. You keep out of its
way until it is destroyed. Turn to 136.

gg~101

99
The first Crystal Warrior lies shattered on the floor.
You watch the second closely, but it does not move.
You take a look at the chest; it is securely locked-
Turn to 360 if you have ricx LOCK skill. If not, you
cannot open the chest. Leave the room and turn to

316.

100
You look at the stone carefully, trying to make out
the design. It looks something like the Thieves’ sign
meaning ‘mark’ — a victim or target. Very strange-
Whatever it means, you still can’t find any way into
the barrow, so you start to look around the garden.
Turn to77.

101
The guard looks at your money, his eves narrowed.
‘Is that all?’ he laughs. ‘The Thieves’ Guild must
have fallen on hard times indeed!’ Then he levels his
spear and attacks you. Your money falls to the
round with a jingle as you dodge his first blow and
draw your sword. Turn to 131.

102-103

You recognize the symbol as one of the secret signs
of the Thieves’ Guild. Another thiet has managed to
get this far before you. You try not to think about
what lies ahead that prevented him or her from
reaching the Eye of the Basilisk. The secret sign tells
vou that there is a hidden door, and as you lean on
the plinth it glides back smoothly, revealing a flight
of steps going down. You follow the steps (tur to
309).

103
You move to the table. The piece of paper
seems to be a letter. It has already been opened, so
you pick it up and read it. It addressed to a Captain
Marlin, and concerns a trading voyage that he ts
about to undertake on behalf of a merchant called
Silas Whitebait. There is no mention of Brass at all -
very strange. If you decide that you're in the wrong
house, you can leave and turn to 384 to look at the
house across the street, the one with the coin sym-
bol. If you want to investigate this house further,
turn t) 318 to examine the door at the end of the hall.
104-105

104

The safe is firmly set into the wall behind the
picture; you estimate that the door is about four
inches thick, and realize that you wouldn't be able
lo force it open even if you knocked the wall down
around it. It has two locks, one either side of the
wheel-shaped handle_ If you have a key marked ‘1’,
turn to 273. If you have a kev marked ‘R’, turn to
124. H you have both keys, turn to 55. If you have
neither key, you can try to open the safe if you have
PICK LOCK skill (turn to 165), you can search the
desk if you haven't done so already (turn to 143}, or
you can leave the study, either going back on to the
landing (turn to 325) or out of the window {turn bo
306).

105

Breathing hard, you limp away from the dead
guardsmen. You don’t stop to rifle their bodies,
someone is bound to have heard the noise of the
tight, and reinforcements could arrive at any mo-
ment. You go on your way, staying in the shadows
and avoiding the main streets as you lock for Brass’s
house. Turn to 177.

SE

106-108

106

Suddenly a small panel in the wall at floor level flies
open, and a jib-jib — a small, strange-looking crra-
ture, little more than a furball on legs —flics out. You
have to kill it in a single blow - you know that its
howling is loud enough to be heard in Zengis, and
will bring guards running to the scene. Attack the
Jib-Jib normally.

11LB-}1B SKILL I
Lf you win the first round, turn to 398. If not, turn to

388.

STAMINA 2

107
You hurl yourself at the door, and the ai is sud-
denly filled with a dense mustard-coloured cloud of
spores as the wood quivers at the impact. The door
dovsn’t open, and your pent-up breath escapes
before you can try ayain. You begin to choke on the
spares, and your eves begin to water. You slump to
the ground, coughing helplessly and knowing that
each breath takes the deadly spores deeper into
your system. Your adventure and your life both end

108
After first checking to make sure that the coast is
clear, you bein to climb the draimpipe. It's an easy
climb, so it doesn’t matter if you don’t have CLIMB
skill. Test your Luck. Uf you are Lucky, turn to 238. If
you are Unlucky, turn tu 375.

199-111

109

You reach carefully behind the suit of armour, and
your fingertips just graze something. You stretch a
little further, and accidentally brush against the
armour. You hardly touch it, but it is enough to
upset the precariously balanced armour, which
topples over with a crash. Immediately, a dog
starts barking behind the door under the landing,
and you hear people stirring upstairs. What will
you do?

Run out of the house? Turn to7
Stay and light anyone who comes? Turn to 336

Or will you hide and hope ne one finds yau? If you
have Hiroe skill, tur to 170. If you do nol, turn to
254.

110
You leave the house quickly and quietly, and return
through the night to the Market Square. What will
you do next? You can go to the Merchants’ Guild if
you haven't been there before (turn to 129), or you
can try te find the Eye of the Basilisk using only the
information that you have found so far (turn to 144).

111

You lash out with your weapon, but it passes
through the insubstantial Spirit as if it weren’t there.
fhe Spirit chuckles again as vou turn lo run, and
you feel it sucking your very soul from you. Your
adventure and vuur life both end here.
112-113

112

The men stand up angrily when you tell them that
you can't pay off the bet, and one of them pushes
you roughly against the wall. Will you:

Fight them? Turn to 28
Try to run away? Turn to 333
Offer them something else? Turn to 283

113

Your mind works quickly. There is some kind of
sorcery at work here, and you don’t like the idea of
fighting your own shadow at all. Then you have an
idea. Shadows are caused when something blocks
out light — they are patches of darkness. Now if the
shadow that’s preparing to attack you is made of
darkness, then you can probably use another source
of light — such as the torch you are carrying — to
dispelit. You hald the torch high, trying to keep itin
a position where il will dispel the shadow cast by the
torch on the wall. Turn to 67.

114-115

114

You douse your torch quickly and shrink back into
the shadows as the Ogre awakens. Although you've
never seen an Ogre before, you can tell at a glance
that you'd rather not fight it unless you have to. The
Ogre comes straight for you, sniffing frequently,
and with a sinking feeling you realize that the
darkness doesn’t hide you from its sense of smell.
Turn to 328 and fight the Ogre, subtracting 2 from
your Attack Strength because of the darkness.

115
You decide that the only thing to do is to cover your
nose and mouth to protect you against the worst of
the spores, charge the door, and hope to break
through to the other side before there are too many
spores in the air. What do you have to cover your
face with? If you havea black hooded cloak or some
rags tied round your feet, turn to 63; if you have
neither, you will have to make do with just holding

your breath — turn tot 72.
116

116

The sound of the crash brings people to their win-
dows all along the street. Some Jean out of their
windows with lanterns and candles, trying to see
what the noise was. You huddle in the shadow of a
doorway, praying that they won't spol you. After a
few minutes, everyone goes back to bed. You stay
where you are for a few minutes more, though, to
give them time to get back to sleep. Then you decade
what to do next. There ts no way in via the drainpipe
now, but if you have cLime skill you may try to
reach the windows by turning to 238. If you don’t
have ciimn skill, or any climbing equipment, you
have a choice. lf you have PICK Locx skill, you may
try toopen the front door by turnmg te 276. Alterna-
tively, you may go back via the Market Square to the
Merchants’ Guild, if you haven't already been
there, by turning to 129. If you can’t do any of these
things, or don’t wish to, turn to 144: you might be
able to find the hiding-place of the Eye of the
Basilisk without any further information, who
knows?

a
="

417-119

117

You walk along the Noose towards Madame Star's
cottage. Your trained eyes. pick oul a number of
begears, pickpockets and cutpurses skulking in the
shadows, but no one bothers you. Everyone in the
Noose Knows that you are an apprentice on your
test. Finally, you reach the little tambledown cot-
tage where Madame Star lives. She is a little sur-
prised when she answers the door, but offers to
read your future for 2 gold pieces. If vou have 2 gold
pieces, turn to 289; if not, or if you do not wish to
pay, turn to 64.

118
You manage to prise open the lid of the chest, Inside
is a disc of black obsidian, almost a foot across and
30 highly polished it reflects the light of your torch
hike a mirror. You reach in to take it. [If you have
SPOT Hippos’ skill, turn to 182_ If you do not, turn
to 20.

119

You stand very still, your heart in your mouth.
‘Don't hurt me,” whines a plaintive voice. ‘I've done
no harm. All Twanted was somewhere to sleep out
of the weather.” You have caught a beggar, who
sneaked in here to sleep. Will you pretend to be a
guard and order him out (turn to 339}, or tell him
that you are a friend (hurn to 291)?
120-121

120

As you are examinmg the strongroom, you hear a
soft grating sound, and see a movement from the
comer of your eve. Turning round, you are amazed
to find yourself being charged by a chest—at least, it
looks like a chest, but it has a stumpy leg at each
corner and it gnashes its lid viciously. You turn to
flee, but the iron door dangs shut! You are trapped
and must fight the Chest Creature.

CHEST CREATURE SKILI. 5 STAMINA 6

if you win, turn to 89.

i121
fhe Poltergeist attacks once more as you run across
the rcom. You plunge towards the door, wishing
that it was something you could at least fight.

POLTERGEIST SKILE 6 STAMINA O

Roll for Attack Strengths as normal, but if you win,
you have not wounded the Poltergeist, merely
jodged its missile. If the Poltergeist wins, you lose
{ STAMINA point. Fight one round of combat, then
leave the room and go back along the passage to try
the other way — turn to 351.

122-325

122
You dodge inte a shadowy doorway and stay very
still. As you watch and wait, a two-man patrol from
the City Guard marches past. You hold your breath,
but they don’t notice you, and continue on their
way. You breathe a sigh of relief once they have
passed, and slip out of the shadows to look for
Brass’s house. Turn !o 177.

123
What kind of weapon are you using? li you are
using a magic weapon, tur to 53. If you are using a
torch, turn to g8_ If you are using any other kind of
weapon, turn Lo 183,

124
You put the key in the right-hand keyhole and tum
it slowly. Lf you have Pick 1.0c« skill, you can pick
the Jeft-hand lock with your other hand (tum to
335). Lf you do not have this skill turn to 202.

325

Hanging on to the drainpipe with one hand, you
strugele to unpack the rope and grapnel, and you
hurl it as the Gargoyle prepares to swoop down on
you again, Remember to cross it off your Adventure
Sheet. Roll two dice. if the result is equal to your
SKILL score or less, you hit the Gargoyle — turn to
232. If not, you miss — turn to 389.

126-128

126
As you plunge towards the door, you spot a slot in
the ceiling above it, the sort of slot which might
house 4 portcullis or some other trap. Will you keep
on towards the door (turn to 317), or turn round and
try to leave the room, by the passage (turn to 152)?

127

You approach the trees, moving as quietly as you
can. You have lost sight of the movement, and as
you draw closer you step on a twig, which snaps
loudly in the still night air. Barely an instant later, a
snarling figure hurls itself out of the darkness at
you. Roll two dice. Lf the result is less than or equal
to your SKILt_ score, turn to 35. If the result is more
than Your SKILL Score, turn to 313.

128

You pick your way cautiously through the debris,
but after a few paces your foot knocks something
with a faint tap. Instantly, the Grubs shoot from
their burrows, with their mandibles clicking all
around you. You flail at them with your torch and
try to fight your way clear, but not without some
injury. Roll one die to see how many STAMINA
points you lose. You may halve this amount (round-
ing fractions up) if you successfully Tes! your Lick.
Tum to 84.
129~130

129
The Merchants’ Guild is on the south side of the
Markel Square, opposite the Noose. The square is
quiet now, all the market stalls have been packed
away, and you sce no one as you make your way
across. You keep to the edge of the square, hugging
the shadows — the last thing you want is to be
stopped and questioned by the City Guard, tonight
of all nights. When you are about halfway across,
you suddenly notice a movement among 2 clump of
trees in the middle of the square. If you decide to
investigate the movernent, turn to 75. If you prefer
to ignore it and carry on towards the Merchants’
Guild, turn te 246.

230

You pick up a stone from the floor of the chamber,
and throw it at the gem. As the stone passes
through the column of light, there is a brilliant flash,
and itis destroyed. You try another stone, and it too
is destroyed. You search the room thoroughly, but
can find no means of turning the ight off. What will
you do now?

Take the gem? Turn to 269
Try te block the ight with
something? Turn to 292

Or will you give up, and retum to the Guild to
report your failure?

131-133
131
Fight the guard normully.
GUARD SKILL 6 STAMINA 6

if the fight lasts more than three rounds, turn ta 299,
it vou win within that time, turn to 337.

432

You hunt all round the barrow, but can’t find any
way in, it seems to be no more than a featureless
grassy mound. You are about to give up when you
notice something scraiched fainily into the standing
stone which stands to one side of the barrow. Turn
to 200 if you have secret siGns skill, 344 if you
don’t.

433
Are you using a magical weapon? If you are, turn to
158. If not, hurn to 180.

1347135

134
The door opens with a soft click, and you find
yourself in a laree study. A huge wooden desk
Stands against one wall, and also in the room are a
nookcase and a few plush-looking chairs. Above the
desk hangs a life-size portrait of a middle-aged man,

y ae

int ‘ : very well dressed and obviously wealthy: Brass the
ett! merchant. The windows to the room are barred, but
St bl the bars can be opened from the inside. You close
“Zs - the door softly behind you, and advance into the
Saar eth et * room. What will you do next?
‘3 ad > Search the desk? Turn to 143
* BBS: Search the rest of the room? Turn to 242
ran Wer te rae t Leave through the window? Tum to 306
Eas :
135

The door opens and you stagger back into the
darkness, throwing the door shut and bolting it
behind you. You lean against the door, trying to

fA Sede Sears Fn ee Sie catch your breath, but the pounding on the door

reminds you that the bolt won't hold for ever— you
need to find some way out. The guardsmen ham-
mering on the door must have woken the house‘s
owner, for you can hear someune stirring upstairs.
You hurry to a window on the other side of the
room, and climb out. By the time the guardsmen pet
into the house, you will be long gone. Turn to 177.

136-138

136
With the Wood Golem destroyed, you are able to
look through the doorway into the room beyond. It
is a small room, barely ten feet square, and itis filled
with a huge pile of gold and gems. None of the gems
looks particularly big, but the Fye of the Basilisk
might be in here somewhere. li you search through
the treasure, turn to 46. If you ignore it and carry on
up the passage, turn to 374-

137
Before you can do anything, you are struck by a
vivid blue spark. The world suddenly gets bigger.
and a vast hand picks you up by the long green tail
you seem to have acquired.

You'll get used to it after a while,’ says Nicodemus
the Wizard. ‘It's not a bad life, being a newt — just
watch out for big fish!’ With that, he throws you in
the river. How will you survive? Well, one thing’s
for certain — you've failed your test. Your adventure
ends here.

138
You creep into the darkened room, but after a
couple of paces a floorboard creaks loudly under
your feet. In the darkness, the snoring stops. What
will you do?

Back quietly out of the room? Turn te 325
Stay still? Turn to 193
Carry on into the room? Turn to 263

139-142

139
The lock is the most complex you have ever seen,
and it seems to take forever to pick it, but eventuaily
the last of the tumblers clicks back and the door
swings open with 2 barely audible creak. Turn to 79.

140
You try the handle of the door, and give it a shove.
You are taken completely by surprise when a plank
whips round and hits you! Lose 2 STAMINA points.
The ‘door’ unfolds itself into a great humanoid
shape. It is a Wood Golem, and you must fight it.

WOOD GOLEM
When you win a round of combat, turn to 123,

skint 8 STAMINA 6

141
You start to pick the lock, but almost as soon as you
do so, the door flies open and you are confronted by
an old man with a long white beard. He looks angry.
What will you do? Whatever you decide to do, turn

to 137.

oo
Fight the Possessor Spirit normally.
POSSESSOR SPIRIT STAMINA 10

Every time you lose a round of combat, you lose 1
LUCK point in addition to the usual 2 STAMINA
points. If you win, turn to 323-

SKILL 10
.

«ob

143-144

143

You search the desk carefully. here are some pap-
ers relating to business deals in which Brass has
been involved recently, but you can’t find anything
about the Eve of the Basilisk. You may help yourself
to a silver paper-knife worth 5 gold pieces, but you
find nothing else of interest or value. What will you
do next? You can search the rest of the room (hum to
242), leave the room via the window (turn to 306), or
leave via the door and investigate the doors at the
other end of the landing (turn to 325).

144
You think about the information you've collected
and the obstacles you've overcome. You must be
close to the Eye of the Basilisk by now — at least, you
now know where it is hidden. You do know, don’t
you? Where will you look for it?

Clock Street? Turn to 369
Singing Bridge? Turn to 22
Tord Azzur’s Palace? Turn to 167
Barrow Hill? Turn to 284

|

145-146

145

As you pick the lock, a jolt of electricity lashes up
your atm, throwing you acrass the room, lose 4
STAMINA points. If you are still alive, you open the
chest. Inside ts a dise of black obsidian, almosta foot
actoss and so highiv polished it reflecis the light oi
your torch ike a mirror. You reach in to take it. Turn
to 182 if you have spot HIDDEN skill, 20 if you
don't.

14h
Climbing rapidly, you reach the top of the wall, with
arrows whistling past you. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 28. If you are Untucky, turn to 329.
47

447
‘You reach carefully behind the suit of armour, and
‘graze something with your fingertips. You realize
that the suit of armour is probably fairly unstable
without someone inside to hold it all together, and
that it would make a horrible noise if vou did
happen to knock it over, 30 you don't try to stretch
any further behind it. After what seems like hours

‘you manage to shift the object so that youcan pickit
‘up, and you withdraw your hand carefully from
behind thearmour. Youopen your hand tosee wat
‘you have found, and discover that itis a gold piece.
it must have been dropped in the hallway. and
rolled behind the armour without anyone noticing.

Make a note of it on your Adventure Steel, even
though it washardly worth theeffort. What will you
do now? You have the choice of going up the stairs
(turn to 368), or investigating the door beneath the
Tanding (turn to 47),

8149

448
Roll two dice. Ifthe result is equal to your sxrut
score or less, turn to 8. If not, you fil to make the
jump and fall in —tum to 2,

49
Trying mot to let the guardsmen sew what you're
doing, you reach behind you and feelalong the door
until you find the doorknob. Test your Luck. If you
are Lucky, tum to 135, Ifyou are Unlucky, turn to
37.
150
You find yourself in an alcove looking ito a small
bunal chamber. The charnber is crudely built, and
s0U filters m through the slabs of the walls and
cohng. An ancient body lies mouldering on a plinth
n the centre, with a iongsword by its side, and two
piles of bones show where other bodies once lay.
suddenly, the bones are stirred by an unseen force,
and gather themse!ves into Skeletons, each armed
with a spear. They raise their spears and advance
owards you. If you stay in the alcove, turn to 366, If
yOu advance to meet them, turn to 233.

151
rou shout - you hope you sound ferocious ~ and
‘harge the nearest of the Footpads. Roll two dice. If
the result is equal to your SKIL& score or less, turn to
244. Ui not, turn to 96

152
You throw yourself across the room, with bric-a-
rac flying afl round you. The Poltergeist attacks
tu three times as you run across the room.

POLTERGEIST SKILL STAMINA O

Roll tor Attack Strength as normal. but if you win
you have not wounded the Polteryeist, merely
dodged its missile. If the Poltergeist wins, you lose
i STAMINA point. Fight three rounds of combat,
then leave the room and run back down the passage
turn to 351)
153-154

153

Straining your vyes in the darkness, you see 2 serics
of long, straight cracks near the lock. it looks
suspiciously as though there is a Gip-open panci
which throws something nasty out when anyone
lampers with the lock. Will you try to disarm the
trap (turn to 173) or jeave it alone and look for
another way in {turn to 210}?

154

You run across the cavern as fast as you can — if you
can get out of the light. your shadow should dis-
appear. While you are running, your shadow
attacks you three limes. Fight three rounds of com
bat; your shadow has the same SKILL score a5 you
do. JE vou win a round, you have not wounded your
shadow, merely evaded ils altack— you are too busy
running to fight back. If your shadow wins a round,
you are wounded as normal. After three rounds,
you reach the far side of the cavern. If you have
SPOT HIDDEN skill, turn to 381. If you do not, tum
to 27-

155

155

You carry on down the passage. It narrows abrupt:
ty, and the dressed stone walls give way to rough-
hewn rock again. Soon you see why. Both walls are
dotted with small holes, about three inches across;
between the holes, the floor is littered with bones
and other rubbish. A rat, disturbed by the light of
your torch, skitters down the passage in front of
you. As it goes, it disturbs some of the rubbish,
and instantly a sharp-jawed, caterpillar-like creature
— something like a Rock Grub, but smaller and
taster — shoots from each of the holes, attracted by
the notse. The rat doesn’t stand a chance, and is
quickly torn to pieces.

You wait for the Grubs to return to their holes, and
then move forward cautiously. You must move
absolutely silently in order to get past without dis-
turbing them. Turn te 25 if you have sNEAK skill,
128 if you don’t.
156-157

156

You set out towards the Ficid Gate. The area be-
ween Palace Street and Field Street, near Lord
Azzur's palace, is the richest part of town, and you
snow that you will have to be especially careful
there. The City Guard is doubly watchful in that
part of town, always keen that the people with the
money should see them doing theirduty. After you
have gone a few yards down Thread Street, you see
2 bobbing light approaching, and hear the sound of
nooted feet. If you have x1pr skill, turn to 122. If
you do not, turn to 293.

4157

the monster, whatever it is, slithers off into the
darkness. You hear it thrashing about for a few
seconds, then silence. Carrying on across the room,
you feel your way to the far wall, and after a few
scconds’ groping vou find a door, You try the
handle, but it won't open —it must be locked. If vou
have PICK 1.0CK skill, turn to 324. lf you do not have
rick cock skill, vou will have to try to break down
the door. Roll two dice —if the result is equal to your
SKILL score or less, you have suceweded — turn to
324. ff not, lose 1 sramina point for a bruised
shoulder and try again. Keep trying until you break
Gown the door or die in the attempt.

4
yer

wt, “bare Ute 4
Ly Wf A Hens
semen

158-160

158
There is no way that you could have picked up a
magical weapon by this stage in the adventure
~ you've been cheating! Go back to 1 and start again
— but do it honestly this time.

159

You try the handle of the door. It is not locked, and
opens with a faint creak, You step cautiously into a
darkened room. By the light of your handlamp,
you see that the room is furnished with a long table
and several chairs — possibly it is some kind of
meeting-room. Al the same time, you become
aware of heavy breathing coming from somewhere
in the room. Will you creep out and climb the
drainpipe, if you haven't already done so (turn to
225), creep out and climb to the roof by some other
route (turn to 4), or stay where you are? If you have
Hie skill, turn to 279. Lf you do not, turn to 61.

160
You thrust your torch into the mould, trying to burn
itaway from the door. Instantly, the air is filled with
a dense mustard-coloured Goud of spores. Roll nvo
dice, If the result is cqual to vour $x11.1 score or less,
turn to 91. If not, furn to 40.

161

161

You stop to think. You are certain that the Eye of the
Basilisk lies ahead. H you go back, you will have
tailed your test and you will spend the rest of your
hte wondering whether or not you could have suc-
ceeded. On the other hand, if you go on you will
have to face whatever is in there. lt may be able to
set in the magical darkness and if it can, you will be
at a terrible disadvantage. You think hard about
what to do. If you decide to go on after all, turn to
352. lf not, you have failed your test, and your
adventure ends here.
162

You try to push past the guardsmen and make a
break for it, but one of them catches vou by the
shoulder and pushes vou roughly back into the
doorway. You think fast as the guardsmen case in
round you, What will you do now?

‘Try to bribe the guardsmen {if

vou haven’t already}? Turn to 327
‘Try to escape through the

dour behind you? Turn to 149
Attack the patrol? Turn to 224

163-164

163

You try the door, but it is locked. If you have rrcK
Lock skill, turn te 287. If not, will you try the door
with the coin symbol (tur to 3). or will you give up
m the Merchants’ Cuild and look for clues in Brass’s
house fif you haven't been there before) by turning
to 156, or set out in search of the Eye of the Basihsk
armed only with the information you already have
Turn to 144)?

&

164
You can’t reach with your dagger — the blade is too
ngid. Will you put your hand in the gap (turn to 56),
or try something else (turn back to 43 and choose
again)?
165-167

165

You choose a lock, and start working on it. Sud-
denly, a tiny snake shoots out of the other lock and
buries its tangs in your hand. Lose 4 STAMINA
points to its poisonous bite. If you are still alive, you
may search the desk, if you haven't already done so
‘turn to 143), leave the room via the window (turn to
306) or leave via the door and investigate the duors
at the other end of the landing (turn to 325),

ve

166
; The Footpad’s heavy chain wraps around your
sword, breaking the blade. Subtract 3 points from
your Attack Strength until you can find another
weapon. Turn back to 78 and carry on fighting.

;

167
You make your way cautiously lowards the palace,
As you approach, you can see that the main gate is
locked and securely guarded. This won't be easy.
How will you get inte the palace?

Through the main gate? Turn t 223
Over the wall (if you have cLtms
skill or a rope and grapnel)? Turn to 16

168—169

168

Finally the Snake dies, and you find that there is no
treasure in the room, just the bones of its victims.
You do find some provisions in 2 backpack, though,
a little stale, but enough for 2 meals. You also turn
up a scroll of parchment; it appears to be a map of
some kind of maze. Make a note of these items
on your Advertture Sheet if you take them. Finding
nothing else of interest in the room, you leave
and carry on along the passage to 374-

169
lf you are using a stone axe, the Crystal Warrior ts
wounded. Conduct the rest of the combat normally.
CRYSTAL WARRIOR SKILL 10 STAMINA11

If you are using any other kind of weapon, the
Crystal Warrior is unharmed. You realize that you
need a blunt weapon toe wound it. Conduct the rest
of the combat using the pommel of your sword,
deducting 2 points from your Attack Strength. If
you win, turn to 99.

170-171

170

You scramble behind a high-backed chair in the
halbway, dowsing your hand-lamp as you do so. You
are barely under cover when a bleary-eyed servant
opens the door beneath the landing, holding a huge
diack dog which strains against its chain. The dog is
growling unpleasantly, and you hope it doesn’t
notice you.

‘That armour again,’ you hear the servant mutter.
‘Well, f'm not putting it back together tonight — it'll
have to wail ll the morning. Come on, you stupid
dog, stop your growling, there’s nothing here.‘
With that, he drags the dog back through the door,
and all is quiet again. You decide nat to try the
servants quarters tonight—for one thing, you don’t
want to meet that dog! — so you slip quietly up the
stairs. Turn to 368.

im

The Ghoul prepares to strike again, and you instinc-
tively raise your sword to parry the blow. Or rather,
you don’t. You find yourself paralysed, and unable
to move. You try to run away, to scream for help,
bul your body simply doesn’t respond. The creature
now has two bodies to feast upon, and there's
nothing you can do to prevent it. Your adventure
ends here, along with your life,
192-175

172
You hold your breath and charge the door. Roll bro
dice. If the result is equal to yoursKIL score or less,
turn to 190; if not, furn te 297.

173
Roll two dice. If the result is equal to your SKILL
score or less, turn to 17. If not, turn to 356-

174
You avert your eyes jusi in time, and leave hur-

niedly, following the passage to 252.

1
Tatoned feet slam into your back, and you are lifted
into the air, The Gargoyle carries you to its rooftop
lair, and your heart sinks as you see bones glinting
in the moonlight, You struggle in vain — the talons
hold you fast. Your test ends here, as a meal for a
Gargoyle.

176-177

176
As seon as you appear in the room, the dog is
awake, snarling and growling as it launches itself at
your throat. You must fight the dog.

DOG SKILL 7

The sleeping servant wakes up abruptly, and calls
out for help. Soon more servants appear, armed
with pokers and other improvised weapons. Fight
three rounds of combat, then turn to 194. If you kill
the dog inside three rounds, you must fight the
servants. Fight them as a single enemy:

SERVANTS SKiLt7

fight one round of combat against the servants,
then turn to 194.

STAMINA 7

STAMINA 9

177

You make your way along Ihread Street to the Field
Gate, keeping to the shadows — you never know
when you might meet another patrol. After a while,
you come to the corner of Short Street and Field
Street, where you see two houses. The one on the
nght is an impressive two-storey stone building,
and you see the symbol of a cin cut into a door-
post. The house on the leftis smaller, half-timbered,
and has the symbol of an oar on a painted sign over
the door. One of these is the house of Brass the
merchant. Do you know which one? if you try the
house on the right, turn to 384. If vou try the house
on the left, turn to 32.
apba79

8
ot finally come to a small chamber, carved out of
the bedrock and devoid of ornament except for the
sccasional patch of bluish green mauld growing on
he walls and ceiling. In the middle of the chamber
neve isa chest on the floor, flanked by two statues
of armed warriors, apparently carved from some
kind of translucent crystal. On the other side of the
ont is a door. As you approach the chest, ome of
the crystal statues slaris to move, Te draws a slim,
needle-like sword of crystal, and steps between you
and the chest. You must fight the Crystal Warrior,

CRYSTAL WARRIOR skirt 10 STAMINA 13

When you win a round of combat, tuen to-x69.

19
You shrink into the shadows, hardly daring to
breathe As your eyes become accustomed to the
you see a dark shape ina chair — the source of
the breathing. Also in the room isa long table, and
there isa door at the farend. Will you investigate the
dark form (turn to 298) or leave through the far door
sare t0 350)?

180-181

180
Your weapon glances off the Gargoyle’s magical
hide with a stony clink — there ts no way you can
harm it without a magical weapon. You lunge for
the skylight, trying to avoid the Gargoyle’s claws.

Roll Attack Strengths for yourself and the Gargoyle.
If the Gargoyle wins, you lose 2 STAMINA points
and tum to 243. [f you win, neither side loses
STAMINA, and you escape through the skylight to
354-

181

You look carefuily around the walls, and suddenly
realize that the brick on which the symbol is scratch:
ed is loose. Pulling the brick out of the wall, you find
a small lever. The door swings open with a click as
you push the lever down, and closes behina you as
you go back into the study. What will you do now?
You can examine the desk {turn to 90), or leave the
Merchants’ Guild stealthily and search for clues in
Brass‘s house (if you haven’t been there before) by
turning ty 156, or set out in search of the Eye of the
Basilisk without looking for any more information
(turn toa 144}.

182-183

You see that the disc is resting on a fine silver wire,
which runs out of the chest and connects to the
ankle of the second Crystal Warrior, What will vou
do? Will you cut the wire (turn to 41), try to lift the
dise without setting off the trap (if you have rick
POCKET Skill, turn to 208; if you do not, turn to 49),
— you leave it alone and go to the door (turn to
316)?

183
Your weapon strikes the Wood Golem with a Jfunk,
and appears to wound it — you were afraid that it

ought be vulnerable only to magic. Continue to fight
the Wood Golem.

WOOD GOLEM
lt you win, turn to 136.

SKILLS STAMINA 4
184

184

Using all your training, you spot a slight depression
in one wall where you can get out of the torchlight,
and dive tor it. You flatten yourself against the rock
as if you are part of il, and as soon as you are out of
the torchlight, the shadow disappears. You have
solved the problem temporarily, but what will you
do now? As soon as you step back into the light,
your shadow will reappear. You think carefully. ff
youcan somehow douse the torch an the wall, there
will be no light to cast a shadow. You daren’t risk
casting 2 shadow, so you can't simply walk up to it
and put it oul. Your only option is io throw your
weapon at it, in the hope of knocking it out of its
bracket. On the other hand, you might be able to use
the torch you are carrying in order to disrupt the
shadow cast by the torch on the wall. What will you
do?

If yu try to douse the torch on the wall, roll two
dice, ifthe result is equal te your $x 111 score or less,
turn ts 5. If not, turn to 249. Don't forgei to cross the
weapon off your Adventure Sheet. If you try to dis-
rupt the shadow with the torch you are carrying.
turn to 67.

185-186

185
Slowly, painfully slowly, you lift the chain off
Brass’s chest, break it, and take the key. Brass does
not stir. Make a note of the key on vour Adventure
Sweet — it does not count as a backpack item — and
leave the room quietly. What will you do now?

l'ry the first door across the

passage? ‘Turt to 70
fry the second door across the

passage? Turn to 76
Go to the door at the other end of

the landing? Turn to 321

Or you can leave the house quietly and yo to the
Merchants’ Guild, if you haven't already done so
(turn to 129), or set out in search of the Eye of the
Basilisk without looking forany further information
(turn to 144).

186
You burst through the door into a torch-lit passage,
with the monster hot on your heels. Will you stand
anu i, ht it, now that you can see whal you're doing
(turn to 334), or will vou try to outrun it up the
passage (turn to 252)?
187-190

187

Slipping through the door, vou find yourself in an
office of some kind. Itis richly furnished, and across
the deep carpet there is a large desk placed against
one wall. A rapid search of the desk turns up some
papers, which tell you that the office belongs to one
Silas Whitebuit. It’s not the office you are looking
for, What will you do? You can try the office across
the passaye, the one with the coin symbol (turn to
3). or leave the Merchants’ Guild stealthily and
starch for clues in Brass‘s house, if vou haven’ theen
there before (hun to 156), or set cut in search of the
Eye of the Basilisk without looking for any more
information (turn to 1.44)-

185

You dodge past the guardsmen, and run off into the
night. You can hear the sound of their booted feet
close behind you, bui you twist and turn through a
succession of alleys and back-streets until you are
sure that you have lost them, When you are sure
that they are no longer following vou, you carry on
to 177-

189
You head for the door, but before you reach it you
step on something under the carpet. There is a loud
click, Turn to 106.

190
You hurl yourself against the door, and instantly the
air is filled with a dense mustard-coloured doud of

19%

spores. The door swings open, though, and you
half-fall through the doorway into a small chamber,
not stopping to breathe until you are well ciear of

the spore-cloud. Turn to 69.

191

You follow the passage onwards. After a little way,
it broadens out and becomes more regular, The
walls are made of stone slabs rather than being
hewn out of the rock. You turn a corner, and find a
dead body in the passage—another thief, by the look
of things. A trail of blood indicates that he crawled
back along the passage after being seriously wound-
ed. You notice a symbol sketched on the floor in the
thief's blood; he nmust have put it there as he lay
dying, to warn anyone who came after him. If you
have SECRET sicns skill, turn to 39. If you do not,
turn to 231.

192-193

ca
You run off up the passage, leaving the shambling
Corpse behind you, You have hardly gone five
paces before you hear the Corpse drop to the
ground and a streak of blue light slams into your
back, knocking you to the ground lose 2$14st1N4
points, 1SKILI pointand 11.ucx point. Thespectral
glowing head hangs in the air belore yon, chuckling,
tevilly. It is a Possessor Spirit, and you have no
‘option but to fight it. If you have a magic weapon,
therm to 242; if not, tum ton

393
Hardly daring to breathe, you freeze, willing vour:
selFto meltinto the shadows. Ifyou dor’! have snp

393-795

skill, tum to 261. If you de have mtoe skill, after a
few seconds ~ they seem like hours — the snoring,
starts again. You carry on carefully into the room.
Tum to 396,

398
‘You keep fighting for aslongas you can, buteventu-
ally the weight of numbers gets the better of you.
Fverything goes black as something — it feels like a
‘cannonball ~crashes into the back of your head,

When you wake up, tis daylight. You have a lamp
the size of a Gryphon’s egg on your head, and the
daylight hurts your eyes. You are in a cell, chained
te the wall, and all your equipment is gone. Your
adventure ends here, and your life probably dos
have too much longer to run, Captured thieves
get very short shrift from the authorities of Port
‘Blacksand.

195
‘You ask Bald Morr if he knows anything about
Brass, ‘Certainly,’ he says with a wink, ‘What's it
worth?’ Are you prepared to pay for information? It
not, turn to 278 to play pin-finger, or leave the
lavernand try your luckelsewhere—turn to 203 and
choose another option.

Ifyou pay for information, decide how many gold
pieces you will offer, then roll one die. Ifthe die oll
sequal oor less than the numberof gold pieces you.
offer, turn to 364. Tfnot, turn to 66. Dor’ forget to
cross the gold you spend otf your Adventure Sheet,
196-197

196

The rest of the Footpads turn and run — they re used
to easier prev. A rapid search tumsupa shurtsword
(you can use this to replace your weapon if it was
broken earlier), a chair-leg, two lengths of heavy
chain, and a total of 5 gold pieces, plus the rags
which footpads tie round their feet. If you take the
rags and tie them round your own feet, your foot-
steps are muffled just as if you had sNeA«x skill -
make a note of the skill on your Adventure Sheet. If
you already have swean skill, they have no effect.
Make a note of what vou take - everything except
the rags and the money counts as a backpack item —
then turn to 386.

197
You reach cautiously for the doorknob, and manage
to peta three-fingered grip on it without disturbing
the mould. Slowly, painfully slowly, you begin to
turn it, praying that the door isn’t locked. There is 2
slight click, and the door shifts a fraction. Holding

198-200

your breath, vou throw the door open and run
through the dense mustcrd-coloured cloud of
spores that seddenly fills the air, and into a small
chamber. You don't stop to oreathe until you are
well clear of the spore-cloud. Turn to 69.

198

The slab is big. It’s the sort of thing you're meant to
notice. And while you're looking at it, you're not
sooking at the real way in, which is hidden some-
where else. It'syan old trick, but you wonder if it’s
being used here. You search the end of the passage,
and finally you find a loose stone in the right-hand
wall. You ‘pullit out. Then another, and another, In
no time, you have made a hole big enough to crawl
through. Turn to 150.

199
Your finger is painfilly cut: lose 1 SKILL point and 4
STAMINA point, You have lost the game, and the
men insist that vou pay up. Do you have 5 gold
pieces? If you have, pay the men and turn to 227.
Don't forget to cross the gold pieces off your Adnen-
ture Sheet. If you do not have the money, turn to 112.

200
As the light floods the room, you sce the monster
clearly for the first time: a large, golden-brown
hzard. Its huge yellow eyes focus on you, and you
reahze that it is a Basilisk, whose gaze is deadly. Test
your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 174. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 65.
EE — Se EE -

201-203

201
Rather than risk raising the alarm, you back quietly
out of the room. What vill you do now?

Listen at the next door? Tum to 76
Listen at the door across the

passage? Turn ty 277
Try the door at the other end

of the landing? Turn tu 322

Or you can leave the house, and do one of two
things. You can try to find the Eve of the Basilisk. if
you think you have enough information (turn to
144), Of you can look for more information in the
Merchants’ Guild, if you haven't been there before
{turn to 229).

202

You put the key in one lock, and begin to turn it.
Suddenly, a tiny snake shoots out of the other fock
and buries its fangs in your hand. Lose 4 stamina
points to its poisuncus bite. If vou are still alive. you
may search the desk, if vou haven't already done so
(turn to 143), leave the room via the window (lurn to
306) or leave via the door and investigate the doors
at the other end of the landing (tum to 325).

203
As you make your way along the Noose, you think
about likely places for picking up information. At
the edge of the Noose is a tavern called the Rat and
Ferret, where thieves, beggars and all sorts of
people come to drink, The Noose is always filled

204

with beggers, at any time of the day or night, and
they see and hear ail sorts of things. And on one side
of the Noose lives Madame Star, the clairvoyant.
She spends her days in the Market Square telling
fortunes, but at this time of night she would be at
home. What will you do?

Go to the Rat and Ferret? Turn to 309
Iry to find a beggar? Turn to 26
Visit Madame Star? Turn to 147
Leave the Noose? Turn to 387

204

You scoop up a handful of the black ashes and
cinders. To your amazement, they are still hot even
though the house burnt down decades ago! Before
you can drop them, the ashes have burnt through
your glove and seared the palm of your hand — lose
? SKILL point and 1 STAMINA point. You leave the
site of the house hurriedly and go to look al the
statue — turn to 301,

205-206

205
Your blow hits the guard just behind one ear, and he
crumples to the ground unconscious. You pick him
up and prop him in the doorway, soit looks as if he's
still awake. As you do so, you notice a symbol
scratched into the door-frame. Turn to 93 if vou
have SECRET SIGNS Skill, 262 if you don't.

206
You can’t find any way into the barrow; perhaps the
Fye of the Basilisk ts hidden somewhere else. Turn
to 77 and look around the rest of the garden.

E

207-208

207

You throw yuurself to one side as the Giant Spider
crashes to the cavern floor, and barely have time to
roll back to your feet before it is upon you. Fight the
Giant Spider normally.

GIANT SPIDER SKIL 7 STAMINA 8

If you lose a round of combat, lose 2 sTAMINA
points and turn to 285. H you kill the Giant Spider
without Losing a single round of combat, turn tu 353.

208
Painfully slowly, vou lift the disc off the silver wire.
Nothing happens, and you breathe a sigh of relief.
Note the obsidian disc on your Adventure Sheet — it
counts as a backpack item — and turn back to 316.
2og-at

Clutching atempty sir, you fall headlong tu the alley
below, Lose 35TaM1N points. ityouare stilalive,
0 back to 386 and choase another option

‘You follow the alley along one side of the Merch-
ais’ Guild. \ftera few yards it turns right sharply
and a few feet alter that you see an even narrower
alley running off to your left, coming to-a dead end
after a few yards, with a door on the left and a
drainpipe leading up past a window to the roof. If
you go down the alley to yourleft, tm too. Ifyou
srry on round the building, turn to 274.

You pick the lock quickly and quietly, and swing the
door open. It ercaks softly on its hinges, but not
Joudly enough to wake anyone. By the light of your
hand-lmp, you can see that you arc in a hallway

‘There is a small table against one wall, with a piece
of paper resting on a tray, and at the far end of the
hall is a door. Near the door is a coat-stand, and a
black hooded doak hangs on it If you take the
cloak, you may hide asif you had i108 skill, even if
you don’t have the skill. Remember to make a note
Of the cloak on your Adventure Sheet ifyou take it It
does not count as a backpack item. If you examine
the tray, tom fo 103. If you ignore it and head
straight lor the door, turn to 338

212-213

212
You search the chamber thoroughly, but you can’t
find any hiding-place where the gem might be, or
any way out except the way you came in. Defcated,
you trudge back to the Thieves’ Guild to report tha!
you have failed the test. Your adventure ends here

213
You notice a strand of web — if that's the right word
for a sticky rope the thickness of a ship's cable -
which the Giant Spider must have dragged down
from the ceiling when it attacked you. You give it a
tug, and it seems to be firm, so you begin to climb it.
As you climb, you realize that the cavern is really a

214

huge vertical shaft, and soon you reach the main
part of the Spider's web, whichis strung right across
the shaft. You shudder as you notice several silk-
wrapped packages hanging in the web - about the
night size and shape to be human bodies. Others
before you were not so lucky, lt you investigate the
bodies, turn to 290; if you carry on climbing, turn to
34.

fat
You keep the disc steady as you reach in beneath it
to take the gem. Withdrawing the disc from the
light, you hold the gem in both hands — you can
hardly believe that you have passed the test. [hen
you look at the gem more closely, and your heart
sinks. There is a crack in one side, and a small
bubble in the middle. The gem isa fake—a worthless

piece of glass! Turn to 400.

215-217

215

You flatten yourself against the wooden railing of
the balcony and stay very still. The figure gives no
sign of having seen you, and walks past, the hem of
his robe brushing your face. He goes to the end of
the landing, turns round, and goes back into the
room he came out of - the first on the nght. Add
1 LUCK point for not panicking. If you had done
anything to waken the slecpwalker, his screams
could have woken the whole house. You wait fora
couple of minutes, fo give him time to get back into
bed and settle into deep sleep, and then you creep
across the balcony, Turn to 325.

216
Bracing your hands and feet against one side of the
shaft and your back against the other, you work
your way carefully downwards. After about forty
feet, the shaft opens out into the ceiling of a pas-
sage, and you drop cautiously to the floor. Turn to
236.

217

Mori sees that you don’t undersiand the symbol,
and hurriedly wipes it out with his hand. He turns
his back on you, and begins to clean some mugs
very busily. You try to attract his attention again.
but he doesn’t seem to notice you. What will you do
now? You can join in the game of pin-finger (turn to
278), or leave the tavern and try elsewhere (turn to
203 and choose again).

218

The huge Footpad siumps to the ground. For a
moment, the others hesitate, You take advantage of
their indecision and charge forward, trying to break
through them. Roll two dice. If the result is equal to
your SKILt score or less, turn to 244. Hf not, turn to

219-221

219
You try to hack a way through the clutching Tangle-
weed. Attack it like any normal opponent.

[ANGLEWEED SKILL 7 STAMINA 6

If you win, you fight your way clear to 248.

220

You grope your way along the cavern walls, and
finally find the entrance to the passage. You set off
along the passage, not daring to fight another torch
until you are weil clear of the cavern. After a few
paces, you hear a sudden click. A shower of daris
strikes you; roll one die to see how many STAMINA
points you lose. You may halve this amount (round-
ing fractions up) if you successfully Test your Luck. If
you are still alive, you light a torch and follow the
passage onward to 191.

221
You have never seen a lock as complex as this — it
must prove that you're on the right track, but unfor-
tunately you can’t pick the lock. You must try to take
the key without getting stung by the scorpion. If
you have PIckK POCKET skill, turn te 13. It vou do
not, turn to 264.
—_ ————  EEeEEeeeeEeEeEeEeE—————=--—-_

222—224

222
You make your way carefully across the web, but
don’t notice the sticky gum plistening on one strand
until it is too late, One foot is stuck fast to the web -
you pull and pull, but can’t free it. What will you do
now? Will you try to cut if free (turn te 359), or burn
the web away with your torch (turn to 274)?

223

You watch the palace gate, trying to think of some
way to get in. The gate is heavily guarded, with
guards beth on the ground and atop the battle-
mented parapets. It’s not going to be easy to get into
the palace, What will you do? Will you attack the
guards and hope that the clement of surprise will
work in your favour (turn to 36), or will you give up
on the palace and Jook for the Eye of the Basilisk
somewhere else (turn back to 144 and choose
again)?

224

The guardsmen look surprised as you draw your
sword. You are alone, dressed in Jeather and armed
only with a shortsword, while they are both armed
with spears, helmeted and dressed in chainmail
from neck to foot.

You must fight both guardsmen together. Each
round, choose one guardsman to attack, and fight
him normally. The other will also attack you, so you
must roll an Attack Strength against him. If your
Attack Strength is higher, you have not wounded

224

the other guardsman, merely avoided his blow. I
his Attack Strength is higher, vou lose 2 stamina
points, as normal.

SKILL STAMINA
First GUARDSMAN 8 6
Second GLARDSMAN 7 5

if you win, turn to 105, You may cscape during any
round in which you lose no stamina points, by
turning to 188.

on

)

=e

225

225

You start to climb the drainpipe. You do not need
ciims skill or a rope and grapnel, because the
drainpipe is an easy climb. You climb to the win-
dow, but find it securely barred, so you decide to»
carry on to the roof. Suddenly you hear a slight
grating sound above you. You look up to see that
one of the decorative Gargoyles on the roof of the
Merchants’ Guild has come to life! It launches itself
off its perch and flies down to attack you, and you
prepare to defend yourself as best you can. Deduct 3
from your Attack Strength because you are clinging
to the drainpipe-

GARGOYLE SKILL YG STAMINA IO
If you win the first round of combat, turn to 319. If
the Gargoyle wins, lose 2 STAMINA points and roll

two dice. If the result is equal to your SKILL score or
less, turn to 365; 1f not, turn to 389.

226-228

226

You haul yourself carefully over the glass-studded
top of the wall and on to the roof of the Merchants’
Guild, Exploring the roof cautiously, you find a
skylight leading down into the building. As you
crouch over it, you see movement on the other side
of the roof; one of the Gargoyles, which decorate the
building, has come to life, and is bounding across
the roof towards you. You have a fraction of a
second in which to make a decision. Will you stand
and fight the Gargoyle (turn to 395) or will you slip
through the skylight, hoping that it isn’t trapped
(turn to 354)?

227
Nursing your cut finger, you try to ask the men if
they know anything about Brass the merchant, but
they resume their game among themselves, and
don’t seem ta be interested in anything you have to
say, What will you do now? You can ask Bald Morn
about Brass (turn te195), or you can leave the tavern
and try elsewhere {turn back to 203 and choose

again).

228

You cross the room towards the body of the lizard. it
twitches slightly at the sound of your footsteps, and
you realize that it is not quite dead. One eve flickers
open — a large, yellow eye - and you suddenly
realize that you are looking at a Basilisk, whose gaze
is deadly. Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to
174. If you are Unlucky, turn to 65.

229-230

229

Before the Shapechanger can free itself from the
cage, you leave the room, slamming the door be-
hind you. Tur to 155.

230
Your attack takes the thing entirely by surprise, and
it gives vent to an inhuman howl of pain as your
sword bites into its shoulder. As the figure turns on
vou, you find that vou have disturbed a Ghoul from
its nocturnal feast — and now it seems to have every
intention of adding you toits grisly menu. You must
fight the Ghoul.

CHOUL sxiri 8

if the Ghoul hits you four times, turn to 271. If you
win, turn to §7-

STAMINA 5
231-232

234

You look at the symbol carefully. You think it’s one
of the secret signs of the Thieves’ Guild, but you
have no idea what it means. SHH, you're fairly sure
that there is something nasty ahead, and this dead
thief was trying to warn you about it. You offer a
silent prayer to the God of Thieves, asking him t»
look after the dead thief in the next world and to
look after vou in this world, and then you prepare to
move on. Turn to 302.

232

The Gargoyle hangs in the air for an instant, strug-
g with its tangled wing, then it plummets to the

alley below, hitting the ground with a splintering

crash. You look down, and see it lying in the alley,

shattered into pieces like a stone statue. You carry

on to the roof, and slip through a skylight. Turn to

354-

233

233

The two Skeletons come forward to meet you. You
must fight them both together. Choose one
Skeleton, and fight it normally, but generate an
Attack Strength against the other as weil. it your
Attack Strength is higher, you have not wounded
the second Skeleton, merely avoided its blow. If the
Skeleton’s Attack Strength is higher, of course, you
lose 2 STAMINA points as normal. Once the first
Skeleton is destroyed, light the second normally-

SKILL STAMINA
First SKELETON 5
Second SKELETON - 4

if you win, turn to 31-

234-235

234

Bargo takes the money, and shoves it inside his
jerkin. ‘Tlang on, young ‘un,’ he says, rummaging
in a sack which sits behind him in his fittle cart
‘Maybe T can do you some good in return.” After s
few moments, he pulls out a rope and grapnel.
‘There you go,’ he grins. ‘I found this a while ago
ng good to me, of course, but I'm sure you can put it
to some use."

You thank Bargo, and he wishes you luck on your
test. Add 1 LUCK point. While you have the rope
am! grapnel, you can dimb as if you had ciims
skill, unless a parayraph specifically states other.
wise. If you already have cis skill, the rope and
grapnel has no effect on your climbing ability. Make
a note of the rope and grapne! on your Adzenture
Sheel if you take it —it counts as a backpack item.

You leave Bargy pushing his cart through the dark
alleys, and decide on your next move. Will you:

Go to the Rat and Ferret (if vou

haven't already}? Turn te 309
Go to see Madame Star (if you

haven't already)? Turn to 137

Or you can leave the Noose and try elsewhere —turn
to 387.

235
The Giant Spider's bite is poisonous, but you resist
the worst of its effects. Lose 1 $x111 point, then turn
back to 304 and carry on fighting.

236-237

236
‘The passage is roughly carved out of the bedrock,
end leads away to the north. You follow it for a few

yards, and find that it ends in a large and strong-

Jeoking door. You try the dour, and find that itis not

locked . You open the door quietly, and advance into
2 darkened room. Your torch does nothing to dispel
te darkness, only the heat on your face tells
you that it is still burning. The darkness must be
magical. You hear a shuffling, slithering sound
trom the darkness. Will you advance into. the
foo (turn to 352), or go back (turn to 161)?

237
The shadowy figure becomes insubstantial, and
finally disappears. You feel strange, casting no
shadow, but don’t pause to think about it as you
hurry out of the cavern. Turn to 381 if you have
SPOT HIDDEN skill, 27 if you don't.
rer
Eh Aa < e -

ADGA hero

238

238
You climb rapidly, and reach the Jevel of the first-
floor windows in less than a minute. The first thing

you notice is that all the windows are covered by

stout iron grilles, to prevent thieves like you break-
ing in. Even though there's no way in, you can still
get some idea of the layout of the apper floor of the
Mensse.

in front of you there ts a window looking on ta a
ending: . You can sée two dours on your lett and one
on your right. and one more at the far end of the
andiny. A window on vour left looks into a smuill
bedroom, belonging to a young girl if the dolls on
the floor are anything to go by. Finally, a window on
your right looks into a larger bedroom dominated by
@ huge four-poster bed where a middle-aged couplv
be sleeping. You climb carefully back down to the
alley below, and head for the front door, which is
the only way into the building. If you have ricx
OCK skill, you can open the doorand turn to 276; if
you don’t have the skill, you can’t vet into the
house. In that case, you have two options: you can
look for information at the Merchants’ Guild, if you
haven't been there before (turn to 129) or you can try
to find the Eye of the Basilisk using only the in-
formation that you have pained so far (turn to 144}.
239-242

239
You hurl yourself towards the wall of the shaft, and
climb rapidly, trying to escape the flames. You are
barely clear of the web when it comes away from the
walls and plummets blazing to the cavern floor
below. Turn to 341-

240
A low passage leads away from the foot of the steps,
ending in a huge stone slab. You have to stoop to
move along the passage. You have only gone a little
way when you hear scuffling and chittcring noises
ahead of you, You raise vour torch to see what's
there, and suddenly the air is full of small, sharp-
toothed bats. If you have a silver whistle, turn to
363. If not, turn to 28e.

241
You follow the passage for a little way before 1
opens out inte a small chamber, apparently once 2
storercom of some kind, as it is littered with all
kinds of debris. As you move cautiously across the
chamber, you are struck down from behind by a
flying chair —lose 1 STAMINA point. The chair flies
at you again as vou pick yourself up. Test your Luck.
If you are Lucky, turn to 355. If you are Unlucky.
turn to 282.

242
You search the study rapidly, and turn up the
following items of interest: a bottle of excellent
brandy, worth 1 gold piece, or you can take up

243-244

te three drinks from it, cach drink restoring 2
STAMINA points; and a miniature painting in a
silver frame, worth 2 gold picces.

if you pick up either of these, remember to note
them on your Adventure Sheet. You have alse dis-

covered that a safe is hidden in the wall behind the
portrait of Brass. What svill you do now?

Search the desk? Turn to 143
Investigate the safe? Turn to 104
Leave the room and try the other

end of the landing? Lurn to 325
Leave the house through the

study window? Turn to 306

243
lest your Luck. Ii you are Lucky, you escape through

the skylight to 354- If you are Unlucky, turn to 175.

244
You lash out as you charge, and one of the Footpads
gives ground. You dive through the gap in their
ne, and run off before they can do anything to stop
you. You twist and turn through back-streets and
alleys to make sure that they aren't following you,
then double back to the Merchants’ Guild. Turn to
386.
245

245

You fumble with the lock, but to no avail. The
slithering scund comes closer: the thing has heard
you. Your only hope is to break the door down
before the monster, whatever it is, reaches you. You
hurl yourself against the door. Roll two dice. If the
result is equal to your SKILL score or less, you
manage to break down the door— turn to 186. If not.
lose 1 STAMINA point for a bruised shoulder. The
monster is upon vou now, and you must fight it.
Subtract 2 from your Attack Strength during ths
combat, as you are fighting in the dark.

UNSEEN MONSTER
If you win, you may continue trying to break down
the door, using the same procedure as before. Purn
to 324 if you succeed; if not, lose 1 STAMINA point
and try again. Keep trying until you break down the
door or die in the altempt.

SklLt5  STAMINAS

246-247

You cross the square tu the Merchants’ Guild. It is
an imposing building, built in stone and several
storeys high. Facing on to the square is the great
main door, set into a deep doorway and made, so
you have heard, of hardwood imported from the far
south, even beyond the Desert of Skulls. From the
Shadows, you can see that the door is closed. It is
manned by a single armed guard, who does not
appear to have noticed you. What will you dv?

lide and watch the guard? Turn to 74

Try to bribe the guard? Turn to 345

Look for another wav in? Turn to 210
247

the potion restores your $k11 1, score to its Mnitiul
level. Change your Adventure Sheet accordingly,
then gu back to 323.
248-249

245
You reach the site of the house. They say that the

house that once stood here was huge — almost 2
palace —and solidly built. No sign of it remains now.
No ruins are left, just a blackened patch of melted,
distorted earth and ash. You can’t see any places
here where a gem might be hidden. What will you
do?

Search among the ashes? Turn to 204
Gu and look at the statue? Turn to 302
249

You hurl your weapon at the torch, but it glances olf
the bracket without dislodging it, What will you do
now? Will you fight your own shadow (turn to 13
and subtract 3 SKILL points if you have no other
weapon to fight with), or will you run out of the
cavern as fast as you can (turn to 154)?

250-251

250
You lift your foot from the burning web, and hur-
riedly smother the flames: if the whole web were to
go up in flames, you would be in deep trouble.
Being careful to avoid any more sticky strands, you
make your wav cautiously to the nearest of the
badies. Turn to 3782.

251
The guard looks at your money, his eyes narrowed.
Then he takes it with a soft chuckle, “Fool,” he says
as he moves to attack you. Lose 1 LUCK point for
meeting a guard who is too corrupt even to stay
bribed. Now you must fight the guard — turn to 131.
252~253

252

You follow the passage for what seems like miles as
it winds onward. Finally, you see a light in the
distance and, approaching cautiously, you can see
that the passage opens out into 2 cavern, which is
empty except for a lighted torch which hangs in an
iron bracket on one wall, On the far side of the
cavern, another passage leads off into the darkness.
You cast a long shadow in the torchlight as you cross
the cavern —it seems to move with a life of its own,
but you tell yourself that it’s only your imagination.
But you are wrong. Before you can reach the other
side of the cavern, your shadow dances along the
wall in front of you, and suddenly climbs down off
the wall, becoming a solid, shadowy being as il
moves to attack you. Will you fight your own
shadow (turn to 13) or will you try some other
course of action, such as:

Trying to run away before it
can attack you? Turn to 154
Trying to douse the torch? Turn to 373
Trying to avoid casting a shadow? Turn to 85
Trying to disrupt your shadow? Turn to 123
253

You recognize the symbol as one of the secret signs
of the Thieves’ Guild. Bald Morriis trying to find out
whether you are a member of the Guild. You dip
your finger in your ale, and sketch another secret
sign on the bar. Morri looks at it for an instant, then

253

tubs both signs out with his hand. He leans over the
bar towards you.

‘Dilficult, that house,” he whispers. ‘The lock on the
safe has never been picked. It needs two keys, and
Brass always keeps one with him, even in bed! With
that, he ducks back behind the bar and begins to
clean some mugs very busily. You try to ask if he
knows any more, but he doesn't seem to hear you.
What will you do now? You can join in the game of
pim-finger (turn to 278), or you can leave the Rat and
Ferret and try elsewhere (turn to 203 and choose

again).

254-255

254
You throw yourself behind a high-backed chair, just

as the door beneath the landing opens and a bleary-
eved servant comes out with a huge doy on a chain.
He sees the ruins of the suit of armour, and then
looks around the hallway. The dog growls savagely,
pulling him over towards you.

Found something, have you?" he says to the dog.
Goon, then.’ With that, he lets the dog off its chain,
and it flies across the hallway towards you. You
must fight the dog.

DOG Skit 7 STAMINA 7

4

While vou are fighting the dog, more servants come
oul of the door. Fight three rounds of combat, then
turn fo 194. If you kill the dog inside three rounds,
you must fight the servants. Fight them as a single
cnemy-

SERVANTS SKILL 7 STAMINA Y

right one round of combat against the servants,
then turn [o 194.

255
You open the door quietly, and slip through the
doorway. You find yourself in a small room with a
ire burning in a stone hearth at the far end. There is
@ man asleep in a chair by the fire, and a large black
dog sleeping on the hearthrug, If you have sNEAK
skill, turn to 95. If not, turn to 176.
256-258

256
As you creep up to the sleepmg Ogre, you
accidentally kick a pebble, which rattles down the
passage and hits the Ogre. It twitches and begins to
stir. What will you do now?

Attack? Turn to 37
Hide (only if you have
HIDE skill) Turn te 314

257
Your hand clutches at the top of the wall, and is
painfully cut by the fragments of ylass which are set
there to deter burglars, Lose { SKILL point and
1 STAMINA point. Turn to 226.

258
You try to push past the men, but they catch hold of
you and push you back against the wall, demanding
that you pay what you owe them. You are in a
desperate situation. Will you fight them (turn to 28)
or offer them something else (turn to 283)?

259-260

259
The lock opens with a faint click, and vou slip
through the doorway int: a large, well-appointed
office. Moonlight filters in through a barred win-
dow, and a huge and richly carved wooden desk
stands against one wall, with a padded leather chair
set in front of it. Across a deep, luxurious carpet, a
large and strong-looking iron door is set into
another wall. If you search the desk, turn to go; if
you examine the iron door, turn to 377.

260
You have come to the end of your adventure. You
reach out a trembling hand to take the Eve of the
Basilisk. Turn to 275-
261-263

26:
Brass wakes up abruptly, sitsholt upright and yells,
Help! Thief at the top of his voice. You have no
choice but to run out ofthe bedroom and get ant of
the house before he wakes everrbody ~ you don’t
fancy having to explain this tothe City Guard, You
uurey back fo the Market Square, planning your
next move. I's too dangerons to go back to Brass’s
house, so you will have to do without any informa-
fion that you could have gained from there, That
caves you two options: either you ean go to the
Merchants’ Guild, if you haver't already dane so
‘tur to 129} or you can hope that you have enough
‘information to find the Eye of the Basilisk and set
out in search oft (turn to 444)

262
‘Youcan’t make out the sign, but you realize that’s
probably a waming about the door. You decide to
leave the door alone, and look for anather way in
Tarn to 210,

265
You fumble to undo the clasp on your cloak, and
throw it as the Gargoyle swoops towards you. Re-
member to crossit off our Adventure Shee). Rolltwo
dice. Ifthe resull is equal to yoursxrLt store orless,
vou hit the Gargoyle turn to 232, Ifnot, you miss —
turn to 389,
You put your hand carefully into the hole. Just a=
your fingertips brush the key, the scorpion comes to
life suddenly, and its great sting sinks into your
hand, just below your knuckles. Lose 2 sTAMINA
points, and Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to
305; if you are Unlucky, turn to 379.

265-266

265
As you climb, you realize that the caver is really a

wide vertical shaft. and soon you reach the Giant
Spider's web, strung right across the shaft from one
side to the other. You shudder as you notice several
silk-wrapped packages hanging in the web—each is
about the right size and shape to be a human body.
If you investigate the bodies, turn to 290; if not, keep

You move quietly to the door, and begin working an
the lock. There is a click from the lock, and the guard
snaps awake, attacking you before you have time ta
react. Roll two dice. Lf the result is less than your
SKILL score, you dodge his first blow — turn to 131 to
continue the combat. If not, the guard’s attack takes
you by surprise —lose 2 STAMINA points and hirn to

131.
267-268

267

You go cautiously downwards into ihe darkness,
but fail to spot a loose flagstone a few steps down.
AS you put your weight on it, the siairs suddenly
snap into a glassy-smooth , and you are
thrown headlong down them and dumped pain-
fully into a deep pit which opens up at the bottom.
Lose 25TAMINA poinis. lf you have curs skill ora
rope and grapnel, you can climb ct (turn to 240). If
not, roll two dice. If the result is equal to your sK1Lt
score or less, you manage to climb out (turn to 249).
If not, you climb part of the way out, but fall back in
again, losing 1 STAMINA point in the process; try
again, and keep on trying until either you get out of
the pit or die in the atternpt.

268
Ts that all?’ laughs one of the guardsmen. “You'll
have to da better than that! Besides, attempting to
bribe the City Guard is a serious offence, so you'll
have te come akmg with us! Obviously your
attempt al bribery has failed. What will you do now?

Make a break for it? Turn to 97
Try to escape through the door

behind you (if you haven't

already tried)? Turn to 149
Attack the patrol? Turn to 224

269-270

269
You reach inte the light to take the gem. As the light
strikes your hand, a searing pain rips through your
whole body. It is the last thing you ever feel. Your
adventure ends here.

270
You dodge into the shadows and run away. The
suard does not pursue you — obviously he doesn’t
want to leave his post. You double back tu the
square, being careful to stay out of the guard's sight,
and weigh up the situation, After a litle thought,
you decide to avoid the main door and look around

the building for an unguarded entrance. Turn to
210.
27%

a7t

You follow the alley to the corner, turn left, and
continue walking round the building. As you passa
narrow alley on your right, you see four shapes
appear in front of you. They advance threateningly,
You turn round, but three more have appeared
behind you, blocking your retreat. Chuckling un-
pleasantly, the Footpads advance on you from both
sides. You can try to force your way through them
(turn to 151) or stand and fight (turn to 78). If you
have curs skill (there’s nol time to use a rope and
grapnel, even if you have one), you can try to climb
to safety ~ turn to 72.

272-273

272
You drag yourself into the shadow of a doorway,

hoping that no one will notice you. The crash of the
falling drainpipe has brought people to their win-
dows all along the street, and some lean out with
lanterns and candles, trying to sev what has hap-
pened.

‘Look, down there" cries a voice. ‘In the doorway
You realize that you have been spotted, and vou
limp off down the street as fast as you can, with cries
of, “Stop, thief! ringing in the air behind you.
Doubling back through a succession of dark and
winding alleys to throw aff any it, you even-
tually find your way back to the Market Square, and
pause to consider your position. It's too dangerous
to go back to Brass’s house, so you will have to do
withoutany information that you could have gained
from there. That leaves you two options: either vou
can go ty the Merchants’ Guild, if you haven’t
already done so (turn to 129), or you can hope that
you have enough information to find the Fye of the
Basilisk and set out in search of it (turn to 144).

273

You put the key in the left-hand keyhole, and tur it
slowly. If you have pick LOCK skill, you can pick
the right-hand lock with your free hand (turn to
335). If you do not have ptcKx Lock skill, turn to
202.

274-275

274
You hold the end of your torch carefully against the
strand of web. It catches light immediately, burning
brightly with a loud crackling sound. Test your Fuck.
Uf you are Lucky, turn to 250. If you are Unlucky,
hurn to 394.

275
You cheat! There is no way here except from 260,
and there is no way to 260 from anywhere else in the
adventure. Go back to 1 and start again — this ime
without cheating.
ee ee ——EE

276-277

276
You work quickly on the lock, and after a few

seoonds there is a satisfying click and the door
swings open. You step inside, dosing the door
softly behind you, and find yourself in an impress-

ive marbie-flovred hallway. A stairway on your left
leads up to a balustraded landing, and a suit of
armour stands against the stairs. Beneath the land-
ing is another door: if vour experience and training
are anything to go by, this door will lead to the
servants’ quarters. What will you do?

Go to the door beneath the
landing? Turn to 47
Examine the suit of armour? Turn to 62
Go up the stairs? Turn to 368
277

You listen carefully at the door, and hear loud
shoring coming from within. You try the door and,
finding that it is unlocked, slip inside. If you have
SNEAK Skill, turn to 396. If you do not, turn to 138.

278-279

You go over to the men who are playing pin-finger,
and ask if you can join in their game. They agree:
readily, explaining that you must flick the point of
the dagger between your fingertips as fast as you
can for a full minute. If you can do this without
stabbing yourself, they will pay you 10 gold pieces;
if you fail, you must pay them 5 gold pieces.

If you change your mind about the pame, turn to195
to talk to Bald Morri, or fo 203 to choose another
option altogether. If you still want to play, roll two
dice. If the result is bess than or equal to your $K111.
score, turn to 14. If the result is more than your
SKILL score, turn to 376.

279
You step lightly over the sleeping Ogre. It doesn't

so much as twitch, and you carry on down the
passage. Turn to 342.
280-282

280
Your torch has panicked the Bats, and some attack
you as they mill about. Fizht them as one creature,
subtracting 2 points from your Attack Strength
because of the cramped conditions.

BATS SKILL 5 STAMINA 12

li you win, turn to 43.

281

You leap forward and attack the white-clad figure
with your sword. As your first blow strikes home, it
gives a very human cry of pain. The young man's
eyes clear suddenly, and he screams as he sees you
confronting him. ‘You curse your luck and run
downstairs. He must have been sleepwalking but
he’s awake now, and his cries will soon rouse the
whole household. You have no option but to run for
it. You hurry back to the Market Square, planning
your next move. It’s too dangerous to go back to
Brass’s house, so you will have to do icithou any
information that you could have gained from there.
That leaves you two options: either you can go to the
Merchants’ Guild, if you haven't already donc so
(turn to 129), or you can hope that you have enough
information to find the Eve of the Basilisk and set
out in search of it (turn to 144).

252
You try to dodge, but the chair hits you squarely
between the shoulders — lose 1 STAMINA point and
turn to 68.
283

283

You offer to give the men something else to settle
your debt, and they ask what you have to offer.
They will take a magic potion or enough Provisions
for five meals. If you give them one of these items.
cross it off your Adventure Sheet and leave the tavern
— turn to 203 and choose another option. If you do
not have vither item, or do not want to give them
up, you can choose to fight the men (turn to 28) or
try to run away (turn Lo 333).

284-285

284

You know that the Eye of the Basilisk is hidden
somewhere around Barrow Hill, but do you know
how to get there? You should have three numbers
written on your Adventure Sheet, representing three
clues: one from the Noose, one from the Merchants’
Guild and one from Brass’s house. If you have all
three numbers, take the first number of the clue
from the house, then the first number of the clue
from the Guild, and then the first number of
the clue from the Noose, and put them together in
that order to pive you a fourth number,

For example, if the clue from the house is 123, the
clue from the Guild is 234 and the clue from the
Noose is 45, you get the number 124 by putting
together the first number of each clue.

When you have found the number, turn to that
paragraph to continue the adventure- If vou do nat
have all three clues, or if you have the wrong ones
and end up at a paragraph which doesn’t make
sense, you have failed your test, and must start

agam from paragraph 1,

285

The Giant Spider's great fangs strike home. Lose 2
STAMINA points and roll two dice. If the result is
equal to your current STAMIN A score Or less, turn to
235; if not, turn to 322.
286-287

286
Pausing to examine the steps, you notice a loose
flagstone. You prise it up, and find a small lever
undemeath, obviously the trigger for a trap. You
avoid the trap, and carry on down the steps to 230.

287

ignoring the statue, you head straight for the site of
the house, crossing what was once a lawn. You are
about halfway across when you feel something
tugging at your feet. Looking duwn, you see that
the rank grass is winding itself round vour boots
and legs. As you pull one leg free, you see tiny flecks
of blood — your blood — glistening on the blades ot
grass. You have just lost 3 STAMINA points. What
will you do now?

Attack the grass?
Try to force your way free?

Turn to 229
Tum to 371

288

At last the Skeleton Tord ts destroyed. You pick up
his sword cautiously — normally you would have
trouble just iifting a weapon thatsize, but because of
its enchantments you can handle it as casily as if it
were a fencing foil. Make a note of its special ability
on your Adoenture Sheet: when you hit an opponent,
as well as the usual s14mrNna lossitincurs, you add
t point fo your Attack Strength for the next round
only. Strapping the sword-belt on, you search the
chamber. You find an old bronze helmet fadd +
point to your skitt if you put it on - itis nota
backpack item), and a polished stone axe set in an
antler haft. There is no trace of the Eve of the
Basilisk. and no sign of a way out. Inspecting the
plinth, vou find a symbol scratched into one side.
Turn to 102 if you have SECRET SIGNS skill, §2 if you
don’t.
289-290

289

Madame Star takes your money, and leads you into
her front parlour, Showing you toa chair, she sits on
the other side of a small table and gazes deeply into
hercrystal ball. She tells you that you are looking for
something valuable, and that it is hidden in a dark
place, a place of death. She says that before you find
what you're looking for, you must look in a place of
sleep anda place of work. This is an important clue;
make a note of the number of this paragraph on
your Adventure Sheet. You thank Madame Star for
her help, and leave her cottage. What will you do
next?

Go to the Rat and Ferret (if you

haven't already}? Turn to 309
Look for a beggar (if vou
haven't already)? furn to 26
Leave the Noose and look
elsewhere? Turn to 387
290

As you make your way across the web, vou notice
that some strands are sticky and some are not — the
Spider obviously uses the non-sticky strands to
retrieve prey that has been caught on the sticky
ones, You must try to avoid the sticky strands as you
investigate the bodies, Roll two dice - you may
subtract 2 from the ameyunt rolled if you have sror
IIIDDEN skill. If the result is equal to your sKILt
score or less, turn to 382; if not, turn te 222.

291-292

291
The beggar almost collapses with relief, ‘| thought
I'd had it there,” he gasps. You are just wondering
why the door was left unlocked, when he produces
a set of lock-picks with a grin. ‘Here,’ he says, ‘that’s
how I got in. You can put’em to good use, I'm sure.’
Add 1 ttcx point for this fortunate meeting. If you
take the lock-picks, make a note of them on your
Adventure Sheet — they da not count as a backpack
item. The lock-picks give you Fick Lock skill if you
don't already have it; if you already have the skill,
they have no effect. The only exit is a door at the far
end of the room. You thank the beggar for the
lock-picks, wish him pleasant dreams, and leave.
Turn to 350.

292
What have you got that can be used to block the
light?

An obsidian disc? Turn to 87
A black cloak? Turn to 308
Something cise? Turn ta 397

293-294

293
You dodge into a shadowy doorway and stay very

still. The light and the footsteps come closer; and
vou hardly dare to breathe as a two-man patrol from
the City Guard approaches. You close youreyes and
hope that they will xo past without notiang you,
but suddenly the light is shining straight to your

face.

‘Well, now, what have we here?’ says a gruff voice.
‘Come out of there, and state your business.’ What
will you da now?

Try to escape through the door
behind you? Turn to 149
Try to bribe the patrol? Turn te 327
Make a break for it? Turn to 97
Attack the patrol? Tur to 224
294

You pull the statue round so that the archer’s arrow
points at the barrow. You wait for a few moments,
but nothing happens, so far as you can tell. Perhaps
the arrow should be pointed somewhere else — but
where? At the site of the house (turn to 346), or at
the standing stone by the barrow (turn to 343)?

295-296

There is a loud click, and the great iron door swings
open easily despite its obvious weight. Inside is a
strongroom, packed with chests and boxes. You
step inside to take a look. If you have seor HIDDEN
skill, turn to 21. If you do not, turn to 120.

296

You look desperately for some means of escape, but
flames hem you in on all sides. After a few seconds
the blazing web comes away from the walls of the
shaft, and vou plummet to the cavern floor below in
2 welter of flame. Your adventure and your life both
end bere
CC ee

297-298

297

You begin to climb down the shaft, but after a few
feet a foothold crumbies and you plunge headlong
downwards —lose 3 Sram ina points. If you are still
alive, you find yourself in another passage. Turn to
236.

298

You creep closer to the dark shape, and see that it
a man in tattered clothes — probably a beggar ~ fast
asleep. You smile to yourself. A beggar in the Mer-
chants’ Guild, eh? Not a bad place to spend the
night, at that. If you wake him, turn to 385. If you
leave him alone and leave by the far door, turn to
350.

299-300

299
A patrol from the City Guard quickly arrives on the
scene. You are heavily outnumbered, and haye no

chance to escape before you are knocked out by a
blow to the head. When you wake up, you find
yourself in a cell, in chains and mimus all your
equipment. You have failed your test, and your
adventure ends here.

308

You go cautiously down the steps. There are no
traps this time, but as you reach the bottom you hear
regular heavy breathing coming from down the
crudely cut rocky passage which leads off in front of
you. Advancing cautiously, you see an Ogre,
obviously supposed to be on guard, slumped asleep
in the passage. If you have SNEAK skill, turn to 279.
if you do not, turn to 256,

Shoe

301-393

301

As you push through the undergrowth that sur
rounds the statue, vou realize that it is set on a
plinth in the middle of a small walled pond_ The
statue, of an archer about to loose an arrow, is made
af bronze, and is green with age, On the base of the
statue is an inscription of some kind, obscured by
dead leaves. Will you wade across the pond to read
the inscription {turn to 2), or jump across {turn to

148)?

302

As you turn to move on, a glowing, almost trans-
parent, bright blue someting comes flying down the
corridor at you. It looks a little like u severed human
head, but you have no time to examine it closely as
you throw yourself to one side. Roll two clice. If the
result is equal te your SKILL score or less, turn te 12,
ii not, turn to 393.

393

You look all around the slab, trying to find some
means of shifting it. After a few seconds’ searching,
you find a hand-size gap between the slab and the
wall on one side, just the right size for a hidden
catch. Will you feel for the catch with your hand
(turn to 56) or use a dagger mstead, if you have one
{turn to 164)?
304-306

304
You hurl yourself to one side, but too late. One of
the Giant Spider‘s great legs hits you, and you are
hurled to the ground - lose 1 stamina point. The
Spider is upon you before you can regain your feet,
and you fend off its first attack dumsily.

GIANT SPIDER SKILLZ STAMINA 8

If you win the first round of combat, you have not
wounded the Giant Spider, merely fended off its
attack, After the first round, fight it normally. If you
lose the first round of combat — or any other—tumn to
285. If you kill the Giant Spider without losing a
single round of combat, turn to 353-

305
Cursing, you brush the scorpion away, crush it
underfoot and take the key. It opens the lock, and

the great iron door swings open. Turn to 79.

306

Quickly and quietly, you open first the bars and
then the window itself, and let yourself down to the
ground. You hurry through the darkened streets,
leaving Brass’s house behind you. As you go, you
consider what ta do next. You can try to find the Eve
of the Basilisk, if you think you have enough in-
formation (turn to 144), or you can look for more
information in the Merchants’ Guild, if you haven’t
been there before (turn Lo 129).

307-308

37
You draw your hand back to knock, but before you
can do so the door flies open and an old man with a
long white beard stands before you. “What de you
want? he demands. What will you do?

Run away? Turn to 144 and choose again
Push him out of the way and
look for the gem? Turn to 137

308
You take off your cloak and throw it over the gem.
As soon as it enters the light, the cloak disintegrates
with a flash. Cross it off your Adventure Sheet, What

will you do now?

Reach into the light and take

the gem? Turn to 269
Throw something to knock the

gem out of the light? Turn lo 130
Try to block the ight? Turn ty 292

Lf you want a clue, spend 2 Luck points — don’t
forget to adjust the score on your Adventure Sheet -
and turn to 338.

309-310

3
You go int) the Rat ad Renee The bar is lit by
smoky oil-lamps, and the pipes and cheroots of the
inn’s customers add to the peculiarly rich atmos-
phere. The landlord, Bald Morri, looms behind the
bar like an unfriendly mountain. At a table to one
side, three disreputable-ooking men are playing
pin-finger, stabbing a knife into the table between
their fingers faster and faster. You go to the bar and
order a mug of ale. Cross 1 gold piece off your
Adventure Sheet to pay for it, What will you do now?

Ask Bald Morri if he knows

anything about Brass? lurn to 195
Ask to join in the game of

pin-finger? furn to 278

310
Your blow hits the guard, who stumbles but recov-
ers quickly. Now you must fight him.

GUARD SKILL6 STAMINA 4

If the fight lasts more than three rounds, turn to 299.
If you win within that time, hurn to 337.

311-312

311
You flatten yourself against the cavern wail, desper-
ately trying to get out of the torchlight. As you do
so, however, your shadow flits across the wall
behind you, and you lose 2 STAMINA pwints as it
attacks you from behind. What will you do now?
Will you fight vour own shadow (turn te 14) or run
away from it (turn to 154)?

312
The Giant Spider prepares te attack again. You try to
dodge its attack, but find yourself paralysed by its
venom, you can only wait helplessly for it to finish
youolf. Youradventure and your life both end here.
313-344

343
You raise one arm in an attempt to fend off the blow,
but you are too slow. The creature's blow thuds
sickeningly into your shoulder — lose 2 sTAMINA
points. You find yourself staring into the snarling,
hate-filled face of a Ghoul: you have disturbed it
from its noctumal feast, and now you must fight to
keep vourself off the menu.

GHOLL skint &

if the Ghoul hits you three more times, turn torp_ Vf
you win, turn to 57.

STAMINA 7

314
You look carefully around the plinth, and find a
crack between the plinth and the floor on one side. it
rolls back suddenly when you give it a shove,
revealing a set of steps leading down into the dark-
ness. You follow them down (turn to 300).

345

345
Hardly daring to breathe, you back out of the room
and close the door. You decide to give the sleepers a
little time to set back into a deep sleep. What will
you do in the meantime?

Try the first door across the

passage? Turn t) 70
Try the second door across the

passage? Turn to 76
Try the door at the other end of

the landing? Turn to 321

if you have already visited all the rooms, you can
wait and then re-enter the room you have just left
(turn to 277).

316-317

316

You go through the door into another rock-cut
chamber - and find that you have reached the
hiding-place of the Eve of the Basilisk! The huge
yellow gem stands on a black stone pillar in the
centre of the chamber, and a column of light shines
from an unseen source, engulfing the gem and the
pillar in light from floor to ceiling. You are elated to
have come to the end of your quest, but your elation
is tempered by caution: there is bound to be a final
trap of some kind. What will you do now?

fake the gem? Turn to 269
Throw something to knock it
out of the light? Turn to 130
Try to block the light? Turn to 292
317

You throw yourself at the door, trying to burst
through before another of the Poltergeist’s missiles
hits you. The door doesn't budge, but a portcullis
comes crashing down behind you, trapping you in
the alcove. You try the door again, but you realize
that it is 2 dummy, nailed to the wall as part of the
trap. You try frantically to lift the portcullis, Roll two
dice. If the result is equal to your SKILL score or less,
you lift the portcullis and escape (turn to 152). If not,

you fail to shift the portcullis — you are still trapped
and the Poltergeist attacks once again.

POLTERGEISI SKILL 6 STAMINA O
318

Roll for Attack Strengths as normal, but if you win,
the Pollergeist is not wounded, you have merely
dodged its missile. If the Poltergeist wins. its missife
hits you and you lose 1 STAMINA point.

After the Poltergeist has attacked, you may attempt
t& escape again, Repeat this procedure until you
escape {rom the trap or die in the attempt.

318
The dour has a large keyhole, and you look through
it before deciding what to do. The room beyond
seems to be a kitchen, and is illuminated by the
dying embers in a large fireplace set into the far wall
in front of the fire, on the floor, isa lange dark shape.
It twitches as you waich, and when it raises its head
and yawns you can see that it is a dog - a very big
dog. You stand up, wondering what to do about it.
As you think, your eye lights on a painting on the
wall of the halhway, It is a portrait of a strong-
looking, bearded man, with a under one
arm. On the bottom of the frame is a small brass
plaque, bearing the inscription:
Tv Captain Marl, from the crew of the Far Trader

Now what swould Brass be doing with a picture
which obviously belongs to a Captain Marlin? You
must be in the wrong house. You leave very quivtly.
hoping that the huge dug in the kitchen won't hear
you, and investigate the house across the street,
with the coin symbol cut into the door-post. Turn to
384.

319-322

319
With 2 stony clink, your weapon bounces harmless-
ty off the Gargoyle’s magical hide. What will you do

now?

Use a magical weapon? Turn to 158
Try some other means? Turn to 73
Keep fending it off and hope

for the best? Turn to 389

320
You can find no way forward; the Eye of the Basilisk
is beyond your reach. You have failed your test, and
your adventure ends here.

R21
You put your ear to the door, but hear nothing.
Trying the handle, you find that the door is locked.
li you have Prck LOCK skill turn to 134; if you dun’t,
you can investigate the doors off the landing (tum to
45). you can leave the house and visit the Mer-
chants’ Guild, if you haven't been there before (turn
tO 129), or you can try te find the Eye of the Basilisk
using only the information that you have gained so
far {turn to 144).

322
The three Dwarfs lie dead at your feet. Before you
can inspect the bodies, someone leans out of a
window and calls loudly for the guard. You hurry
away before a patrol arrives on the scene — turn back
to 144 and choose again.
323-324

323

The Possesser Spirit disappears in a shower of
bright blue sparks. A rapid search of the body turns
up 5 gold pieces, a throwing knife, a long piece of
heavy wire with a hook at the end and a flask. The
flask has been cracked in the fight, and a potion is
leaking out of it - there is enough potion lett for one
drink, but only if you drink it now. Turn to 2477 you
drink the potion, Record anything vou take on your
Adventure Sheet; only the wire counts as 2 backpack
item.

You move onward along the passage, following the
trail of Dlood left by the dying thief. The trail leads to
a dovr in the left-hand wall of the passage. The door
stands ajar, and you peer through the doorway
into a roum furnished only with a great iron cage.
Locked in the cage is a Dwarf. ‘Let me out!” he
pleads. ‘I'm a thief like you! If you let me out we can
look for the Eye of the Basilisk together" If you let
the Dwarf out of the cage, turn to 6. If you make sure
he’s a thief first, turn to 86. If you ignore him end
carry on down the passage, turn fo 155.

324
You step through the doorway into a terch-lit pas-
sage. You shut the door quickly as you hear a
scrabbling, slithering sound from the darkened
room behind you. fust outside the door stands a
small bottle, containing a liquid which glows very
brightly - se brightly that it hurts your eyes. You

325-327

wonder if it will penetrate the darkness of the room.
Will you find out (turn to 92), or will you ignore the
bottle and carry ort up the passage (turn te 252)?

335
You cross the balcony to the landing. Three doors

lead off the landing- one on the left and Svc on the
right. At the end of the landing is a barred window,
The bars are set into the brick of the windowsill, and
cannot be moved. You decide to listen at one of the
doors. Which one? The dooron the left {turn to 277),
the first door on the right (turn to 70), or the second
door on the right (turn to 76)?

326
Hugging the shadows, you work your way around
to the side of the building. then glide soundiessly up
to the guard. He gives no sign of having noticed
your approach. What will you do next? You can try
to knock out the guard (turn to 38) or try to open the
door (turn to 266).

327

You mumble some excuse about being a carpenter's
apprentice on an errand, and reach into your purse.
How much will you offer them? Decide how many
geld pieces to offer, then roll one die. If the number
rolled is equal (o or less than the number of gold
pieces you offered, turn to 44. If not, turn to 268.
Don’t forget to cross the money off your Adzenturr
Sheet.
328-330

328
With a bestial grunt, the Ogre attacks you. Fight it
normally.

OGRE SKILL 8 STAMINA 12

if you win, turn to 342.

As you reach for the top of the wall, an arrow slams
into your arm. You lose your grip, and fall headlong
trom the top of the wall. Your adventure ends here.

33°
The beggar is sufficiently startled to believe you,
and leaves hurriedly. As he leaves, he mutters that
he hopes you end up as a beggar with nowhere to
go. Lose 1 LUCK point for being so hard-hearted.
The only exit is a door at the farend of the room; you
step cautiously out. Turn to 350.

331-332

331
Feeling your way along a wall, you try to creep
across the room without making a sound, hoping
that whatever is in the room won't notice you. After
a lew steps, your foot scuffs against a slight bump in
the floor. Instantly, you hear the slithering sound
getting closer, and you draw your weapon as the
unseen monsier attacks. Subtract 2 from your
Attack Strength during this combat, because of the
darkness,
UNSEEN MONSTER SKILLS

if you win, turn to 157.

STAMINAS

332
‘ENOUGH! Bald Morri’s voice rings out above the
sound of fighting. Together with some of the inn‘s
customers, he separates you from the men. and
throws you out. You pick yourself up out of the
gutter, dust yourself down, and decide what to do
next. Will you:

Look for a beggar (if you

haven't already)? Turn to 26
Visit Madame Star (if you

haven't already)? Turn to 127
Or leave the Noose and look

elsewhere? Turn to 387

333-335

333
You try to push past the men, and head for the door
of the tavern. Roil two dice. If the result is less than
orequal te yours«t:1 score, furn tog, I the result is
more than your SKILL score, turn tu 258.

334

You turn to face the monster, feeling a great deal
more comident now that you can see what you're
fighting. As you turn, you see that it is a large,
golden-brown lizard. Then you see its large, plow-
ing yellow eyes and realize that it is a Basilisk,
whose gaze is deadly. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 174. If you are Unlucky, turn to 65.

335

There is a click, and the safe door swings open.
inside, you find 2s gold pieces, a ledger with Brass's
accounts for the last two months, and a letter. The
letter talks about ‘fitting out your property on Bar-
row Hill’, and is signed with a strange symbol, the
type that wizards use. The ledger shows that Brass
bought some land on Barrow Hill not long age, and
beside the relevant entry there is a pencilled note
reading “E.O.B.’ This is an important clue — make a
note of this paragraph on your Advertiwre Sheet.
What will you do next? You may search the desk if
you haven't already done so (turn to 143), leave the
room via the window (turn to 306}, or leave via the
door and investigate the doors at the other end of
the landing (turn to 325).
336-337

336
You draw your sword and wait im the hallway for
someone to arrive, trying to look as fearsome as you
can. The door beneath the landing opens, and out
comes a bleary-cyed servant holding a huge black
dog ona chain. Helets the dog go when he sees you,
and it flies at your throat, snarling horribly.

DOG SKILL 7

While you are fighting the dog, more servants come
out of the door. Fight three rounds of combat, then
turn to 194. Tf yons kill the dog inside three rounds,
you must light the servants. Fight them as a single
enemy:

SERVANTS SKILI >

Fight one round of combai against the servants,
then turn te 194.

STAMINA TJ

STAMINA Q

337

ihe guard falls to the ground, and you turn to the
door. Before you have a chance to do anything.
though, you hear footsteps approaching, and see a
bobbing lightin the distance, approaching rapidly —
almost certainly a patrol, attracted by the noise of
the fight. You dodye into a darkened alicy, and
search for another entrance: there will be far foo
much activity for comfort around the main door
after this. Turn to 220.

335-340

338

Something telis you that the chestin the last room is
important, so you go back there. The remaining
Crystal Warnor does not move as you approach the
chest. The chest is securely locked. I you have rick
LOcK skill turn fo 145; if you don't, you will have to
try to break open the chest. Roll two dice. If the
result is equal to your SkILt score or less, turn ta
118; if not, turn to za.

339
The Poltergeist attacks you three times as you cross
the room.

POLTERCEIST SKILL 6

Roll for Attack Strengths as normal, but if your
Attack Strength is higher you have not wounded
the Poltergeist, merely evaded its missile. If the
Poltergeist has a higher Attack Strength, you lose 1
STAMINA point. Peght three rounds af combat, then
turn fo 59.

STAMINA (@

340
As the Gargovile swoops towards you, you hurl the
chain at it, hanging on to the drainpipe with one
hand. Remember to cross the chain off your Adven-
ture Sheet. Roll two dice. Lf the result is equal to your
SKILL score or less, you hit the Gargoyle — tum to
232. If not. you miss - turn to 389.
341

341

At the top of the shaft, another passage leads away.
As you follow the passage, it gets damper and
damper, until moisture ts running down the walls
and the walls and ceiling are coated with occasional
patches of mould. Finally, the passage comes toe an
end, The wall at the end is covered with 2 thick
coating of bright yellow mould, which looks almost
hke the fur of some strange animal. There seems to
be no way onward, but you are sure there must be a
hidden exit - youve seen more than one apparent
dead end already. If you have sPoT HIDDEN skill,
turn to 88, If you do not, tum to 378.

342

At the end of the short passage ts a great iron door. It
is as high and wide as the passage itself, and one
look tells you that you would never be able to break
it down. There is a keyhole in the door, but you
realize that the lock on a high-security door like this
will be very difficult to pick. Beside the door is a hole
in the wall, containing an iron key on a hook and a
small, brightly coloured scorpion. The scorpion
does not move, but you know that if vou try to take
the key, there is a good chance that it will strike at
your hand. Will you trv to take the key (if you have
PICK POCKET skill, turn to 13, if you do not, turn to
264), or will you leave it alone and try to pick the lock
(turn to 58)?
3437345

343
You go down a short passage, and come to a set of

steps leading downwards inte the darkness. This
seems to be the only way onward, so you start
cautiously down the steps. If you have sPOT HID-
DEN Skill, turn to 286. If you do nol, turn to 267,

344
You can’t make out the symbol. Since there scems to
be no way into the barrow itself, you conclude that
the Eye of the Basilisk is hidden somewhere clse.,
furn to 77 and look around the rest of the garden,

345

You smile at the guard, and approach him cau-
fiously, rummaging in your purse. How much
money will you offer him? Decide how many gold
pieces to offer (not forgetting to crass them off your
Adventure Sheet), then roll one dic. If the result is
equal to the amount you offered or less, turn to 251-
if not, hirn to 101

346-349

346
You pull the statue round so that the archer’s arrow
points at the site of the house. Nothing happens. as
far as you can see. Perhaps the arrow should be
pointed somewhere else —but where? At the barrow
(turn to 294) or al the standing stone by the barrow
(turn to 383)?

347
You tum the doorknob and lean hard against the
door, but nothing happens. The door doesn’t move
— it must be locked, or bolted from the other side.
There’s no escape that way. What will you do now?

Make a break for it? lurn to 97
Attack the patrol? Turn to 224
Try to bribe the patrol (if you

haven't already)? Turn to 327

348
You put your shoulder to the slab, and heave with
all your might. The slab stays firm, and something
gives in your back — lose 1 stamina point for
tearing a muscle. Go back to 43 and choose again

349
The symbol means nothing te you. Turn to 181 if

you have sroT MIDDIN skill, otherwise there is
nothing for it but to wait until someone finds you
and face the music, You have failed your test, and
your adventure ends here.

359

350
the door leads to a passage. Off the passage is a

kitchen, containing nothing of interest, and a lobby,
from which stairs lead up to the first floor. You creep
up the stairs, and find yourselfina carpeted passage
with a door on either side. The door on the left has
the symbol of a coin painted on to a wooden plaque
which is attached to it, and the door on the right
bears the symbol of a fish. Will you:

Check the passage for traps (if

you have seor #ippeN skill)? Turn to 357
Open the door on the left? Turn to 189
Open the door on the right? Turn to 8

3547-353

3
After a few yards, the passage comes to an abrupt

end, The only way onward is a hole in the floor,
leading down into the darkness. Wil] you go down
the hole (if you have ct me skill, turn to 216, if you
do not, turn te 297), or will you go back and try the
other end of the passage (turn to 241)?

352
You advance cautiously into the darkness, wonder-
ing what is in there. Turn to 24 if you have snraKx
skill, 331 if you don’t.

353
Once the Giant Spider is dead, you are able to look
around you. There are no passages leading out of
the cavern apart from the one you came im by, so
you decide to investigate the ceiling, which is lost in
darkness. If you have c1.1m 8 skill, turn to 265. If you
do not, turn to 399-

3547355

354
You drop through the skylight into a short passage.
Pausing to get your bearings in the half-light, you
set that there are two doors, each bearing a badge or
symbol of some kind. The door on the rizht is
marked with a coin symbol, and the one on the leltis
marked with a fish symbol. lf you open the door
with the fish symbol, turn to 83. If you open the
door with the coin symbol, turn to 180. If you have
SPOT HIDDEN skill, you can check the passage for
traps first by turning to 357.

355
fhe chair misses you by a whisker as you throw
yourself to one side. Turn to 68,
356-357

356

You start te disarm the trap, but succeed only in
setting it off, The panel near the lock flies open, and
six small darts shoot out. Roll one die to see how
many hityou. You may halve the number {rounding
fractions down) if you successfully Test your Duck
Rach dart that hits you does 1 STAMINA point of
damage. To make matters worse, you can hear the
sound of a patrol approaching, and the guard you
knocked out begins to groan, as if he is about t
wake up. You decide to give up on the main door,
and dodge inte an alley which runs down one side
of the building, Perhaps you will find some easier
and less exposed way in. Turn to 220.

357
You search carefully slong the panelled walls, and
find a slight bump in the floor. Rolling back the rng,
you find a lever connected to a hidden panel on one
side. You're nol sure precisely what itis, but it must
be the trigyver for a trap af some kind, so you give ita
wide berth. What will you do next?

Try the left-hand door (with

the coin symbol)? Turn to 3
‘Try the right-hand door (with

the fish symbol)? Turn to 163

358-359

358
You approach the trees almost silently. As you draw
closer, you can see a hunched form bent over some-
thing in the darkness. There is a sickly sweet smell
of rotting flesh coming from somewhere. What will
you do?

Hurry on across the square? Turn to 246
“Attack the hunched figure? Tum to 230
Touch the hunched figure? Turn to29

359
You hack at the strand of web holding your foot,
and eventually pull it free. Being careful to avoid
any more sticky strands, you make your way
cautiously to the nearest body. Iurn to 382.

ae
a es
~

-_
. Ses
——

f 4 ls

nF

FI fy
aye, e

tay ©”

360-363

360

As you pick the lock, a jolt of electricity lashes up
your arm and throws vou across the room — lose 4
STAMINA points. If you are still alive, you open the
chest. Inside is a disc of black obsidian, almost a foot
across and so highly polished it reflects the light of
your torch like a mirror. You reach in to take it. Turn
to 182 if you have srot HippeEN skill. If you do not,
turn to 20,

361
this isn’t going to be easy: you have to take the key
from around Brass's neck without waking him. Roll
two dice. If the result is equal to or less than your
SKILt, turn to 185. If the result is more than your
SKILL Score, furn to 261.

362
You pull the map out of your backpack, study it fora
little while, and mark out the quickest route through
the maze. Following the map, you come through
the maze in 2 matter of minutes. It’s a good job you
picked it up, you could get lost in that maze for ever.
Turn to 178

363
You put the whistle to your mouth and blow. You
hear nothing. but the milling hats suddenly part
round you like a curtain, and fly out of the passage
into the mght. Turn to 43.
364-367

364
Bald Morri takes your money, and leans over the
bar. “He's a big merchant,” he says in a low voice.
‘Tis symbol is a coin, and it's on everything that's
his. That goes for his house, too — it’s on the corner
of Short Street and Field Street, just by the Field
Gate.’ He dips a finger into your ale and sketches 2
symbol on the bar-top. If you have secRET sIGNs
skill, turn to 253; if not, turn to 217.

365
The force of the Gargoyle’s blow nearly knocks you
off the drainpipe, but you hold on for dear life. Will
you keep fighting (turn back to 225 and fight
another round), or will you try some other approach
(turn to 73)?

366
Because you stay in the alcove, the Skeletons can

only attack you one at a time. Add 1 tucx point for
thinking of this, then fight the Skeletons one at a

time,

SKILL STAMINA
First SKELETON 6 5
Second SKELETON 5 4

If you win, turn to 31.

367
You run for the door, but before you can reach it the
Shapechanger leaps from the cage and throws itself

366-369

on you from behind — lose 2 STAMINA points. You
must fight it now.

SHAPECHANGER  SKILL10 38 STAMINA 10
If you win, leave the room and turn to 155.

368
You sip quietly up the stairs and on to the balcony,
There is a door immediately on your left, and a short
landing leads off the balcony on your right. Three
doors open on to the landing. If you try the door on
your left, turn to 321, If you investigate the doors on

the landing, turn to 45-

369
You make your way down Clock Street. Suddenly,
@5 you pass a narrow side-alley, three small shapes
launch themselves out of the darkness at you —a trio
of Dwarven footpads. Fight them one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
First DW ARF 7 7
Second DWARF fi ”
Third DW ARF 6 6

if you win, turn to 322.

370-372

378

You set off down another passage, but after what
seems like an hour’s walking you are still lost. Tesi
your Luck. If you are Lucky, you finally find your
way out of the maze — turn to 478. If you are
Unlucky, you are still lost: return to the top of this
paragraph and try again until you are successful. lf
you nun out of Luck altogether, you never find your
way out of the maze. You have failed your test, and
have nothing to look forward to but a slow death by
starvation.

372
You wade through the grasping, clinging Tangle
weed, not stopping until you are well Gear of it, but
losing another 3 STAMINA points in the process.
Turn to 248.

372

Hugging the shadows, you work your way round to
the side of the building, and creep towards the
guard. Your foot brushes a pebble, which clatters
along the cobbles, and the guard suddenly snaps
awake. Te barks a challenge and levels his spear at
you. Will you attack the guard (turn to 131), try to
bribe him (turn to 345), or retreat (turn to 270)?

373-374

373
Your mind works quickly. There is some kind of

Sorcery at work here, and you don’t like the idea of
fighting your own shadow at all. If you stop casting
2 shadow, you won't have a shadow to fight — but
how can you do this? You drop the torch you are
carrying, and hurl your weapon at the torch on the
wall. Don't forget tocross it off your Adventure Sheet,
if you have nothing else to fight with, you must
deduct 3 from your Attack Strength until you find
another weapon. Rall two dice. Lf the result is equal
to YOUF SKILL score or less, turn to 5. If not, turn to

239.

374

At last, the passage comes toan end. You had begun
to think that it would go on for ever, but you find
yourself peering into a huge cavern with no visible
exits. Is this the hiding-place of the Eye of the
Basilisk? The cavern is featureless, and its roof is lost
in darkness, beyond the range of torchlight. You
move cautiously into the cavern, and start to check
the walls for concealed doorways or hiding-places.

Suddenly, your attention is caught by a rattling
noise from above you. You raise your torch and look
up, trying to see where the noise is coming from -
and see an immense spider, fully five feet across the
body, dropping like a stone towards you. Roll two
dice. If the result is equal to yoursKILL score or less,
turn to 207; if not, turn to 304.
3757376

375

You climb the drainpipe rapidly, but when you are
about ten feet off the ground, it shudders slightly,
and comes away from the wall with a groan of
twisting metal. You fall te the alley below — lose 2
STAMINA pomts — and the drainpipe falls on top
of you with a crash. You drag yourself inio the
shadows: if you have Hine skill, turn to 116; if you
Go not, turn to 272

376
You put your hand down on the table, with your
fingers spread wide, and stab the knife into the table
between each pair of fingers in turn. Faster and
faster the knife moves, und! you accidentally stab
one of your fingers. Test your Lick. Lf you are Lucky,
turn to 72. Lf you are Unlucky, turn to 199

377-379

377
The door is very solid — it appears almost impossible
to open by force — and the lock on it is one of the
largest and most complicated that you have ever
seen. if you have pick Lock skill, you can try to
open it, but it won't be casy. Roll two dice, and add 2
to the score, If the result is equal to your SKILL score
or less, you have opened the door — turn to 295. If
not, or if you don’t have rick Lock skill, you can't
open the door, and you will have to confine your
attention to the desk (turn to go) or leave the Mer-
chants’ Guild stealthily and either look for clues in
Brass’s house {if you haven't been there before) by
turing to 156, or set out in search of the Eye of the
Basilisk without looking for any more clues (turn to

144).

378
You search both sides of the passage, but can find
no way out at all. Perhaps you missed something
earlier on, and this really is a dead end. Tes! your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 88. If you are Un-
lucky, turn to 42.

379
Cursing, you brush the scorpion away, crush it
underfoot and take the key. As you turn to put it in
the lock on the great iron door, your vision blurs.
Shaking your head, you try to take a step, but fall to
the ground as the venom takes effect. Your adven-
ture and your life both end here.

380-382

380

You cannot stop your hand wavering, and your
fingertips brash the edge of the light. A searing pain
lashes through your arm. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, you lose 4 STAMINA points. If you are still
alive, go back to 87 and try again to take the gem. If
you are Unlucky, the shock of the pain makes you
stumble further into the light and the searing pain is
om aapchonr aes Your adventure ends

As you hurry out of the cavern, you notice a series of
holes in the walls of the , three on each side,
at chest height. You crawl underneath them, and as
you do so a small dart shoots out of each hole. If you
had been standing, they couldn't have missed you.
Gain 1 LUCK point for evading the trap, and follow
the passage to 191.

382

Carefully cutting the spider-silk from around the
body, you find that it is indeed human. You avoid
the face ~ you don’t want to find out whether it’s
anyone you know - and concentrate on looking for
usable equipment. You find a backpack with
enough Provisions for two meals, but that is all. You
decide that you can't face investigating the other
bodies, and resume your climb to 341.
383-385

383

You pull the statue round so that the archer’s arrow
points at the standing stone beside the barrow-
There is a grating noise, and part of the featureless
grassy mound falls inward, revealing a small stone
doorway. You go cautiously inside, pausing only to
light a torch, your hand-lantern isn’t bright enough
for these conditions. Turn ta 343-

384
You look all round the two-storey house for possible
entrances. There is no back door, but you find two
possible ways in: a front door, which is locked, and
a drainpipe, which leads up to three windows on
the upper floor.
lf you have PIck LocKskill, you may try toopen the
front doar (turn to 276). If you decide to Gimb the
drainpipe, turn to 108. Lf you don’t wish to do
either, you can make your way back to the Market
Square and visit the Merchants’ Guild, provided
that vou haven't done so already, by turning to 12¢-

345

Ihe beggar wakes with a start. ‘Don't hurt me,” he
whines. ‘I’ve done no harm. All 1 wanted was
somewhere to sleep out of the weather.” He's clearly
frightened of you—he probably thinks that you area
Guild official or a nightwatchman. Will you pretend
to be a watchman and order him out (turn to 330), or
will you tell him you're a friend (turn to 291)?

386-387

386

You resume your circuit of the building, and notice a
doorway in the wall, but when you investigate it,
you discover that it’s been bricked up — there’s no
way in here! Carrying on around the building, you
turn left and find yourself in Key Street. Looking
south, you see someone dodging a hail of arrows.
You smile to yourself as you head north. The Guild
has done well with that trick, even though there
were some who said it would never work. —

You come back to the Market Square, having
walked right round the Merchants’ Guild, and
Pause to think. You have found three ways in: the
front door, where there is a guard to get rid of; the
back door; and the drainpipe beside the back dour,
which leads to a window. You decide that the front
door is tow risky: fighting with an armed guard in
the Market Square is bound to attract attention,
even at night. This leaves you with the back door
{turn to 159) or the druinpipe (turn to 225). [f you
have cure skill or a rope and grapnel, you can
ignore both options if you wish, and try climbing to
the roof—tur to 4.

387
You leave the darkened alleyways of the Noose, and
head out into the rest of the town. Where will you go
first?

To Brass’s house? lurn to 156
To the Merchants’ Guild? Turn to 129
388-390

You miss the /ib>-lib, which rons screaming down
the passage. You've heard that their voices are loud,
but you still find it hard to believe that such a srmall
besst can make so much noise! You can’t hear the
armed guards running to investigate — the jib-Jib’s
howling drowns out everything else — but you can
imagine them running up the stairs at this very
moment. You make your wav out of the Merchants’
Guild as quickiy as you can, and take cover in a
shadowy alley. After your nerves have settled, you
begin to weigh up the situation. It's toa dangerous
to return to the Guild now, so you'll have to do
withoul any information that you might have
gained there. That leaves you two options, You can
look for clues in Brass’s house (if vou haven't been
there before) by turning to 1§6, or you can sel outin
search of the Eye of the Basilisk now, and hope that
you have enough information to find it (turn to 144).

A stony claw rips your shoulder open; you are torn
from the drainpipe and plummet to the alley below.
Los€ 3} STAMINA points. [fF you are still alive, turn to
48 if you have Htbe skill, 175 if you do not.

399
The door shudders as you hit it, but does not open.
Lose 1 STAMINA point for a bruised shoulder. Ln-
stantly, the air is filled with a dense, mustard-
coloured chrud of spores, but the cloth over your
mouth and nose protects you a little. Try again —roll
391-393

two dice. if the result is cqual to your $K1L1. score or
fess, turn to 190; if not, turn to 51.

397

You drop to the foot of the wall, hitting the ground
hard — lose 1 stamina point, You stagger to your
feet and try to run, but guards are converging on
you from all sides. Roll two dice. Lf the result is equal
to YOUT SKILL Score or less, you inanaye to evade the
guards and escape — tim back to 144 and try some-
where else. If not, turn to 36.

392

You teave the city by the Field Gate, slipping past
the guards like a shadow. Soon, you see Barrow Hill
rising Out of the night ahead of you. As you climb
the hill, you see the ancient barrow from which it
got its name. Not far away is an overgrown garden.
all that remains of a great house built here a century
Or more ago. They say that the family who lived
there were dogged by ill-iuck until they abandoned
the house, and soon after they left it burnt to the
ground. You wonder what Brass has done to the
site, where the Eye of the Basilisk is, and how it's
protected, Where will you start looking?

By the barrow?
By the house?

Turn to 30
Turn to 77

393
You hurl yourself to one side, but the thing, what-
ever it is, grazes your shoulder. A tremendous jolt

994-395

of pain lashes through your body, and for a fraction
of a seeond you feel as if your very soul is being
burnt up by the thing’s hellish energy. Lose 2 sTa-
MINA points, 7 Sxr1t point and £ LUCK point. The
thmg hovers above the dead thief’s body for a
fraction of a second, then sinks down into it, soak-
img into the dead flesh like water soaks into a
sponge. The body twitches once, and then drags
itself to its feet. Your scalp tingles as the dead eves
Stare sightlessly into yours, and the dead thief
shambtes to attack you. Will you fight the Animated
Corpse (turn to $2), or try to run away (turn to 192)?

34
You manage to free your foot, but the fire spreads
rapidly and soon the whole of the web is blazing. If
you have curs skill (a rope and grapnel won't do
here), turn to 239. If you do nol, turn to 296-

395
You attack the Gargoyie.
GARGOYLE SKILL G STAMINA 10
When you win a round of combat, turn to 133.

396-397

396

By the faint moonlight coming into the room, you
see a large four-poster bed. Two peopic are asleep —
Brass and his wife. At the foot of the bed stands a
chair with clothes heaped on it, and a rapid search of
the clothes tums up to gold pieces. As vou are about
to leave, you see that around Brass‘s neck isa key on
a silver chain. The key has the letter ‘R’ on it. if vou
iry to take the key, turn to 361 of you have rick
POCKET skill, 261 if you do not. If you decide not to
lake the key, you turn and leave the room quictly.
Once back on the landing, will vou:

Try the first door across the
Try the second door across the
2 Turn to 76
Investigate the door at the other
end oi the landing?

Or you can leave the house quietly and either go to
the Merchants’ Guild, if you haven't already done
so (turn to 129), or set out in search of the Eye of the
Basilisk without looking ior any further information

(turn to 144).

Turn te 322

397
You hold the object in the light, and it disintegrates
with a flash, It is totally destroved, and not even a
trace of ash is left behind. Cross the object off your
Adventure Sheet, and lase 4 STAMINA points as your
hand brushes the edge of the light. What will you do

now?

398-399
Reach into the light and take
the gem? Turn to 269
Throw something to knock the
gem out of the light? Turn to 130
Try to block the light? Turn to 292

Ui you want a clue, spend 2 LUCK points — don’t
forget to adjust the score on your Adventure Sheet —
and turn to 338.

398
You manage to kill the fib-Jib before it can make a
sound. Just as well — you’ ve heard that their screams
can be heard miles away, and the last thing you
want to do is to Iet the whole town know thal
someone's broken into the Merchants’ Guild. Wip-
ing your sword, you turn your atiention to the
doors, Which one will you try first:

The door with the coin symbol?
The door with the fish symbol?

tum to3
Turn to 163

399
You try to climb the cavern walls, but they are too
Sheer and you can find no handholds. You look
again around the cavern, searching for a hidden
door or some other way out, but find nothing. Test
your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 213. If vou are
Unlucky, furn to 320-
400

400
As you stand looking at the fake gem, a secret door
opens in the back of the chamber, and out steps
Rannmik, followed by several other prominent Guild
members. They are all smiling.

"Yes, [know it's a fake," grins Rannik, ‘the whole job
was. But the dangers were real enoush, and you
used vour skills and equipment well to overcome
them. You've passed your test, and the Guild Coun-
al, whom you see here, has no hesitation in admit-
ting you te full membership of the Thieves’ Guild of
Port Blacksand.” Your disappointment turns to a
choking mixture of clation and relief as the other
thieves crowd round to congratulate you.
Abe Paes

Steve Jackson's
SORCERY!

‘Your sean for the legendary Crown of Kings takes yo
to the Shomer His live with evi creatures, aes
andere and bloodthssty monsters. the and riled
Sih frcks and taps wang forthe uavrany tev
‘Wa you be able to cro the fll sfely and proceed 1S
he acd gt of he avencune — of wil pow perish J
seonemp |

Asa watsoy relying on toce of ams ora wtrard tie
prmape yous mast Brave the terior ofa oy bolt to rap
the uneasy You vl oval yur yey about You to ur
‘ise the unease Borne ahead and to make sense
hte cacy schich may lad io your sucess ~ orto yout
soon!

3: THeseveN skavents
Seven deadly and magical serpents speed ahead of yout
svar the el Archmage of your cumin Wil vu Be able
{o clch them toe they ger mere?

4° THE CROWN oF Kise
AL the end of your long eh, you face the tnknown
terrors tthe Mampang Fors. Hiden inside the keep
EE the Crowa of Range ~ the timate goal uf the Sorcery
pic tt beware! Fur if you have nol defeated the Seven
Serpents, your anal hs been anteipated

‘Complete wit i the magical spell you sill need.
{ech Book sa be played ether en fs own ora port
oF the whee ee
THE CRETAN CHRONICLES

John Buttrfs, Dad Honigmans, Philip Parkee

Sel sn the mythological world of Ancient Grewue this 3
Inn ie Brings am casting etre mera fo
‘Adventute Gumebooks, YO axe Allheve, sent toavense
{hedeath of Theses, our eller irother whan bod bes
tmspped inthe ityrinth ot King Minox Tae como
System has been exened 1 incorporate he concep of
Foote s6l shee,

Fantasy Questbooks—32 pages, ful colour

‘THE PATH OF PERIL
Davi Heting end Perry Hinton
‘Musteated by Rachel Birkett

fhe famous mune Many, has Bees fully
‘murdered. snl th: yondary Blocdsione, hich he 4c
Goired under myslenous cimamstincey om his ast
Feros: Js aussng: All that emainy ae the eared Se
[Bes of the expore's diary. his personal nutebuok sed
must of the contents of is fans study An aimost
‘ansckable wnntery Yeti cme tha the explore gael!
omoet a vient ced and prepared the ay tor
YGU te wack dows tes murcurer snd rocover the
Slcedsione Ustictoratsly the ince he nid ave been
Scatter in the tam of his lee death All he infor:
‘ation sos ed hee scan hidden in Bath fse
3b plane, an each steno the mesiery unceves (8
‘eve she pose YOU shasp enough to cack

STARFIIGHT ZERO
acid Ficling and Perry Hinton
Mtustrated by Peter Andrew Tons

‘One by one the Fee Pepats hays fallen tthe relentless
aevance of the Dank Ships nel ony Calgoran and
Palomar main: Then a bt. despairing mastage comes
‘um Palomar and Caldoeaa ison it own It seers ah
the uieaders, arma wh the poster af the uneinle
‘Black Light wil soon conquer We last Oulpont Of te
Sista. The oalt hope fur the sursval of Caidoron
Gre lat desperate mon by 3 small Group of ste
‘iter es ste atthe sours of dhe Bk Ligh. And
YOu pe parol the acon

OUT OF THE PIT
FIGHTING FANTASY MONSTERS

Steve jackson and lan Livingeioue
Edited by Marc Gascoigne

From the darkest corners, from the deepest pouls and
from dungeons thought only to exist in mightmares come
the Fighting Fantasy monsters — the downfall of many @
brave wartior. Two hundred and filly uf these lozthsome
Lrestures trom the wild and dangerous worlds of Highting
Fantasy are collected here — some are old adversanes,
many you have yet ty meet eath of them dearibed in

minute detail. An indispensable gvide tor Pighting
Fantasy adventuress’

TITAN
THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

Steve Jackson and lan Lionegstone
Edited by Marc Gascoigne

You met the monsters in OUT OF THE PIT-—- now meet
the rest of the Fighting Fantasy world! No adventurer
should be without this exsential guide — jt contains every
thing you need to know, covering the turbulent history of
the world, from its creation and eerly Gviliestions

the devastating War of the Wizards — to the
present-day wilderness and anarchy where the delicate
ag ee ee eee
be overturned -

HELMQUEST
David Tickling and Perry Hinton

Atiantis was onmee a land of peace and prosperity. its
golden ace assured by the power Daimos. niaster of the
gods, had invested in the Bight Helm power to protect
the fand from evil and sorcery, Ait then the Helm was
shattered into twelve pieces by the Dark Gods and their
servant Vorash. Now each pierre lies hidden in a dark and
sees send) som oretig Me the evil gods. But
YOU have charced upon the log kept by Na-Manon.
prest of Atlantis. This hey will reveal the journey made by
the evil ames as they concealed each piece of the Helm,
Do YOU have x in your power to recover those pieces
and cemake the Helm. thus restoring peace to Atlantis?
Ail the information you necd is there, ingeniously hidden
m both text and pictures, and each strand of the mystery
unravels to reweal the next. The quest of the Helm awiits
yoo. Do YOU dare to take up the chalienge?

THE TASKS OF TANTALON
Steve Jackson
Musterated by Stephen Lavis

Gellantaria is reeling from the aftermath of # long and
costly wer. Tantalen, wizard of the court, roles the king-
dom over an Inner Council of scheming knights, jealously
vying for power. Bat Tantelon’s years are drawing tu a
thos. in order to seek our the kingdom's sharpest minds,
Tarvaion has devised an epic adventure quest. YOU are a
competitor in the Sorcerer's quest: cen YOU steal the
Brimstone Dragon's treasure hoard? Will YOU tind a way
to free Six Dunstable from imprisonment in the Stinn
dungeon? And how will YOU catch the Demon Fish? All
the information you need ts ingeniously woven into the
text and pktures. All YOU have to do is take up the
challenge and crack the mystery!
