Gorak is under threat from the evil which
haunts the dark chasms beneath it.

The great seals of Gorak have been broken and
the True Shic ld is pone — the Malice of Orghuz
has again been unleashed!

As a direct descendant of Lancred the Magniti-
cent, it’s up to YOU, a simple assistant in the
underkitchens, to undertake the awesome
quest for the Shield. With the Shining Sword in
your hand and the cat goddess Tabasha the
Bazouk at your side, YOU must enter the
Chasims of Malice to seck out and destroy the
evil Orghuz.

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you
need, YOU decide which paths to cake, which
dangers to risk and which monsters to tight!

hy P
Lees Minalpafeon te Led

UI

uz | oS
= fale 9 780140324756"

es rele

PUFFIN BOOKS

CHASMS OF MALICE

The great seals of Gorak have been broken and the True Shield
is gone — Gorak now lies unprotected from the evil which
haunts the dark chasms beneath it, and the Malice of Orghuz
has again been unleashed. Only the true heir of Tancred the
Magnificent can fight the evil power of Orghuz.

YOU are discovered, by the wizard Astragal, to be the direct
descendant of Tancred the Magnificent, and only YOU may
undertake the quest for the Shield. But can you, a simple
assistant in the under-kitchens, carry out this awesome task?
With the Shining Sword in your hand, and the cat goddess
Tabasha the Bazouk at your side, you must enter the Chasms of
Malice to seek out and destroy the evil Orghuz... . but can you
halt the spread of his evil Knuddam spawn?

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you need to embark on
this thrilling adventure, which is complete with its elaborate
combat system and a score sheet to record your gains and
losses.

Many dangers lie ahead and your success is by no means
certain, YOU decide which routes to follow, which dangers to
risk and which adversaries to fight!
Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks

THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP MOUNTAIN
THE CITADEL OF CHAOS

THE FOREST OF DOOM
STARSHIP TRAVELLER

CITY OF THIEVES
DEATHTRAP DUNGEON
ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING
SCORPION SWAMP

CAVERNS OF THE SNOW WITCH
HOUSE OF HELL

TALISMAN OF DEATH

SPACE ASSASSIN

FREEWAY FIGHTER

TEMPLE OF TERROR

THE RINGS OF KETHER

SEAS OF BLOOD
APPOINTMENT WITH F.E,A.R.
REBEL PLANET

DEMONS OF THE DEEP
SWORD OF THE SAMURAI
TRIAL OF CHAMPIONS
ROBOT COMMANDO

MASKS OF MAYHEM
CREATURE OF HAVOC
BENEATH NIGHTMARE CASTLE
CRYPT OF THE SORCERER
STAR STRIDER

PHANTOMS OF FEAR
MIDNIGHT ROGUE

CHASMS OF MALICE
BATTLEBLADE WARRIOR
SLAVES OF THE ABYSS

SKY LORD

STEALER OF SOULS
DAGGERS OF DARKNESS
ARMIES OF DEATH

PORTALS OF EVIL

Steve Jackson's SORCERY!

1. THE SHAMUTANTI HILLS

2. KHARE - CITYPORT OF TRAPS
3. THE SEVEN SERPENTS

4. THE CROWN OF KINGS

FIGHTING FANTASY- The Role-playing Game
THE RIDDLING REAVER

OUT OF THE PIT - Fighting Fantasy Monsters
TITAN - The Fighting Fantasy World

Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone
present:

Chasms
of Malice

it
An
sy

it ii f

Luke Sharp

Illustrated by Russ Nicholson

PUFFIN BOOKS
PUFFIN BOOKS

Published by the Penguin Group
27 Wrights Lane, London W& STZ, England
Viking Penguin Inc., 40 West 23rd Street, New York, New York 10010, USA
Penguin Books Australia Ltd, Ringwood, Victoria, Australia
Penguin Books Canada Ltd, 2801 John Street, Markham, Onturio, Canada L3R 1B4
Penguin Books (NZ) Ltd, 182-190 Wairau Road, Auckland 10, New Zealand

Penguin Books Ltd, Registered Offices: Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England

First published 198%
357910864

Concept copyright © Steve Jackson and lan Livingstone, 1988
Text copyright © Luke Sharp, 1988
Illustrations copyright © Russ Nicholson, 1988
All rights reserved

Printed and bound in Great Britain by
Cox & Wyman Lid, Reading
Filmset in Linotype Palatino by
Rowland Phototypesetting Ltd,
Bury St Edmunds, Suffotk

Except in the United States of America,
this book is sold subject to the condition
that it shall not, by way of trade or otherwise,
he lent, re-sold, hired out, or otherwise circulated
without the publisher's prior consent in any form of
binding or cover other than that in which it is
published and without u similar condition
including this condition being imposed
on the subsequent purchaser

To those who boldly go and especially
Colin, Joanna, Stacy, Isou, Andrew,
Sophie, Themi and Sam
CONTENTS

HOW TO FIGHT THE CREATURES
IN THE CHASMS

9

ADVENTURE SHEET
B

BACKGROUND

CHASMS OF MALICE
25
HOW TO FIGHT THE CREATURES
IN THE CHASMS

Before embarking on your adventure, you must first
determine your own strengths and weaknesses,
You must work out your initial LUCK, SKILL and
STAMINA scores. You may use the Advenitire Sheet
on pages 18-19 to record all the details of an
adventure. Here you sill find boxes for recording
YOUF SKILL, STAMINA and LUCK scores. If it 15
possible to make a photocopy of this page, do so.
Otherwise record all details in pencil.

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter the
total in the sx11.4. box on the Adventure Sheet.

Roll both dice. Add 12 to the number rolled and
enter this number in the stamin 4 box,

Roll one die. Add 4 to this number and enter this
total in the Luc box.

For reasons that will be explained below, $x11-1,
STAMINA and LUCK scores change constantly dur-
ing anadventure. You mast keep an accurate record
of these scores and for this reason you are advised
either to write small in the boxes ur to keep an eraser
handy. But never rub out your Jnitia! scores,

Your sKILE score reflects your swordsmanship
and general fighting expertise; the higher the better.

9
Your STAMINA score reflects your general constitu-
tion, your will to survive, your determination and
overall fitness; the higher your sTAMINA score, the
longer you will be able to survive. Your LUCK score
indicates how naturally lucky a person you are.
Luck — and magic — are facts of life in the fantasy
kingdom you are about to explore.

Battles

You will often come across pages in the book which
instruct you to fight a creature of some sort. An
option to flee may be given, but if not — or if you
choose to attack the creature anyway — you must
resolve the battle as described below.

First record the creature’s SKILL and STAMINA
scores in the first vacant Encounter Box on your
Adventure Sheet. The scores for each creature are
given in the book each time you have an encounter.
The sequence of combat is then:

1. Roll both dice once for the creature. Add this to
its SKILL score. The total is the creature’s Attack
Strength.

2. Roll both dice once for yourself. Add the number
rolled to your current SKILL score. This total is your
Attack Strength.

10

3. If your Attack Strength is higher than that of the
creature, you have wounded it: proceed to step 4. If
the creature's Attack Strength is higher than yours,
it has wounded you: proceed to step 5. If both
Attack Strength totals are the same, you have
avoided each other’s blows: start the next Attack
Round from step 1 above.

4- You have wounded the creature, so subtract 2
points from its STAMINA score. You may use your
LucK here to do additional damage (see below).

5. The creature has wounded you, so subtract 2
points from your own STAMINA score. Again you
may use LUCK at this stage (see below).

6. Make the appropriate adjustments to either the
creature's or your Own STAMINA scores (and your
LUCK score if you used LUCK — see below).

7- Begin the next Attack Round by repeating steps 1
to 6. This sequence continues until the STAMINA
score of either you or the creature you are fighting
has been reduced to zero (death). If you are dead,
you must start the adventure again from the

beginning.

One-Strike Combat

You may find yourself in a situation where there is
not enough room for full combat (a high ledge, a

11
rope bridge, etc.}. Here one good strike will win or
lose a fight. You will be instructed to fight One-
Strike on each of these occasions. The procedure is
as follows:

1. Throw hyo dice for your opponent,

2. Throw two dice for yourself.

If your throw is greater than your opponent's, then
he, she or it has been knocked off by your blow and
has plummeted to doom. if your throw is less than
your opponent, then you meet a similar fate. IF
both throws are equal, then neither has gained an
advantage and you must throw again.

Fighting More Than One Creature

if you come across more than one creature in a4
particular encounter, the instructions on that page
will tell you how to handle the battle. Usually you
will fight each one in turn.

12

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either in
battles or when you come across situations m which
you could be either Lucky or Unlucky (details are
given on the pages themselves), you may call on
your Luck to make the outcome more favourable.
But beware! Using LUCK is a risky business and if
you are Unlucky, the results could be disastrous.

The procedure for using your LUcK is as follows:
roll two dice. If the number ralled is equal to, or less
than, your current LUck score, then you have been
Lucky and the result will go in your favour. If the
number rolled is higher than your current LUCK
score, you have been Unlucky and you will be
penalized.

This procedure is known as Testiny vour Luck. Each
hime you Test your Luck, you must subtract 1 point
from your current LUCK score. Thus you will soon
realize that the more you rely on your LUCK, the
more risky this will become.

13
Lising Luck in Battles

On certain pages of the book you svill be told to Test
your Luck, which will result in you being Lucky or
Unlucky, However, in battles you always have the
option of using your Luck, either to inflict 2 more
serious wound on a creature you have just
wounded or to minimize the effects of e wound the
creature has just inflicted on you-

Tf you have just wounded the creature, you may Tesi
your Luck as described above. If you are Lucky, you
have inflicted a severe wound and may subtract an
exira 2 points from the creature’s STAMINA score.
However if you are Unlucky, the wound was a mere
graze, and you must restore 1 point to the creature's
STAMINA (i.e. instead of scoring the normal 2
points of damage, you have now scored only 1).

if the creature has just wounded you, you may Test
your Luck to try ta minimize the wound. If you are
Lucky, you have managed to avoid the full damage
of the blow. Restore 1 point of stamina (i.e. in-
stead of it doing 2 points of damage it has done only
1}. Lf you are Unlucky, you have received a more
serious blow. Subtract 1 extra STAMINA point (Le.
instead of doing 2 points of damage it has done 3)-

Remember that you must subtract 1 point from your
own LUCK score each time you Test your Luck.

if
NAY, Ht

—_ ~~.

Restoring Skill, Stamina and Luck

Skill

Your SKILL score will not change much during your
adventure. Occasionally a page may give you in-
structions to mcrease or decrease your SKILL Score,
Your SKILL score can never exceed its initial value
unless specifically instructed. Calling on Tabasha
the Bazouk (see later) will restore your SKILL to its
Initial level at any time.

Stamina, Provisions and Friel
Your STAMINA score will change a lot during your
adventure as you fight and undertake arduous
tasks. As you near your goal, your $TaMina level
may be dangerously low, and battles may be
particularly risky, so be careful!

Your backpack contains enough Provisions for five
meals. You may rest and eat at any time except
when engaged in a battle. Eating a meal restores 4
STAMINA points. When you eata meal, add 4 points
tf) your STAMINA score and deduct 1 point from
your Provisions. A separate Provisions Remaining
box is provided on the Adventure Sheet for recording
details of Provisions. Remember that you have a
long way to go, so use your Provisions wisely!
Remember also that your STAMINA score may
never exceed its Initial value unless specifically in-
structed. You may call on Tabasha the Bazouk (see
later) to bring you extra Provisions at any lime. She
may occasionally bring you extra Provisions with-
out being asked.

15
You are also given the option to cook some of your
food. On the Adventure Sheet you will find a Fuel
box. Collect any Fuel that you can find and mark it in
the Fuel box. In certain cases you may be instructed
to add a further 2 STAMINA points for cooking a
meal.

Luck

Additions to your LUCK scare are awarded through
the adventure when you have been particularly
lucky. Details are given on the pages of the book.
Remember that, as with sxi1L_ and STAMINA, your
LUCKscore may never exceed its Initial value, unless
specifically instructed on a page. Calling on Tabasha
the Bazauk (see later) will restore your t.UCK to Its
Initial level at any time, and increase your I[mihal
L.ucK by 7 point.

Equipment and Tabasha the Bazouk

You will start your adventure with a bare mmimum
of equipment, but you may find, or buy, other items
during your travels. You are armed with a Sword
and are dressed in leather armour. You have a
backpack to hold any Provisions and any treasures
you may come across.

16

In addition you will haye Tabasha the Bazouk, a
noble cat, from the race of cat goddesses. She will
aid you on your quest. You may call on her at any
lime (except when engaged in a battle) to restore
your Imlial SKILL Or LUCK. You can only call on her
once for this facility, and you must decide which
Inztial score you want her to restore hefore you set off
on your quest; so make your choice wisely.
Throughout your adventure she may also help you
by adding to your Provisions, and in various other
ways (instructions are given on those particular
pages). But beware! You can only call on the Bazouk
nme times, and you will have t mark each request
in the Tabasha box on the Adventure Sheet. After you
have used up your nine options you cannot call on
the Bazouk again.

Khuddam

The Seven Khuddam of Orghuz are named on your
Adventure Skeet. You must mark off any names that
you have beaten in combat.

17
ADVENTURE SHEET

SKILL | |STAMINA |
Initia! ! Initial

| Skhih= Stamita =

| |

ES ines

KUDDAM = | -TABASHA

| THF
GESHRAK |BAZOUK
GURSKUT | | LUCKOR
TFRIANKARA
BARKEK {
| GRIFFKEK

| CHURKA
KAHHRAC

eee ae net S
_

ENCOUNTER BOXES

}
Sis =
' Stam =

| Sian =

Stamina =

'
i Skhil=
Stamina =

jsxz=

Shuma =

- =

Skiij =

' Stamina =

'
;
'

= ’
| shan =
Staniincs =

=e

pow

SG Ea
Skilt =

Steniina= |

|

Skill =
Staming =

!

Seif} = |
Stemina = |
| |

=

——
| Skit =
Stamina —

—*
Skill ‘

Stamina =

r ——
Skit =

Stam =

BACKGROUND

Gorak. A minor kingdom, situated between the
rivers Dart and Dagger — tributanes of the river
Swordflow. Gorak was founded by Tancred the
Magnificent after his adventures with his brother
Orghuz in the Dark Chasms. The kingdom was to
be the gateway between the area of Khul and the
caverns, chasms and tunnels of the Gaddon
people. Gorak has been without a monarch for
many years and has been governed by the Lords
Ridermark.

Gaddon (or Feelbrethren). The Gaddon people are
briginally from south-west Khul. They migrated to
the deep chasms (for no known reason, although
sume authorities claim religious persecution) and
created their own cultur:. They began to give birth
tu blind babies soan after constructing their com-
plex system of tunnels. Their other senses were
greatly enhanced and they became masters of the
dark. ‘Ihe Gaddon Knights ~ the Sensewarnors —
ure supreme fighters in the dark. They are rarely to
be seen in the Tuplands (as they call Khul) since the
time of Tancred the Magnificent.

From Trealise on the Kingdoms of South-west Kind by
ignatius Pommfntte

. - - in that year did We halt the Malice that was
afflicting our Kingdom. But at great cast! We lost
our beloved brother Orghuz to the Evil, and in a
mighty struggle We cast him into the Dark Chasms,
and did entrust the noble Gaddon Wariors to
guard Him and His Khuddam spawn, for all
eternity. The Great Seals were bound to the Tme
Shield, and placed in the darkest vaults of Gorak
Keep. Pray God that none will have to .

Fragment from The Annals and Histories of Tancred the
Magnificent, Ktrs of Gorak

While flying in the guise of a hawk over south-west
Khul, on his way to the gathering of the Mage Order
the Wizard Astragal is summoned by the Lord
Ridermark, Regent of Gorak, to investigate the
sudden change in the fortunes of the small king-
dom. Lord Ridermark explains that strange, dark
crtatures ate abroad; people are attacked and
Killed for no reason but sheer Malice, The vital
truffle trede-route along Tancred’s March is no
longer safe, and the popular Azleff, leader of
the stalwart knights of the Grey Order, has dis-
appeared. Nobody can understand what is happen-
ing in what was, until recently, a peaceful land.

Astragal assumes a worried expression and rushes
off to consult the Annals arel Histories of Gorak. The
great dusty tome confirms his memory of the
story of the True Shield_ He slams the book shutand
makes his way to the deepest vault of Gorak Keep.
By the light of a blazing torch he finds the Great
Seals broken and the Shield GONE! Across the
floor is a wide crack leading tu the Dark Chasms.

24.
Astragal explains to Lord Ridermark his fears that
someone has unleashed the Malice of Orghuz and
the Khuddam, by breaking the Great Seals. If
Orghuz has the Shield he will be trying to break the
spell of its age-old power. If he succeeds, the Seven
Khuddam will then have the power to multiply: first
there will be 49, then 2,401, then 5,764,801, until
they become uncountable hordes, and Orghuz
becomes invulnerable. Astragal emphasizes that to
kill Orghuz it is necessary first to destroy all the
Khuddam, and only a direct descendant of Tancred
the Magnificent can then hope to stand up to the evil
power of Orghuz himself.

Lord Ridermark tells Astragal that Tancred’s line of
descendants ended many ages ago. Astragal
ignores the remark and pulls out the Crystal of
Bahriyya, which shows him the way to the blood
heir of Tancred the Magnificent. Astragal finds
YOU, working in the under-kitchens as third-
assistant-rabbit-skinner. He grabs you and, before

22

you have had the chance to wipe your hands,

whisks you away to the vaults. He stands youin the

middie of a dusty room and whispers some strange

incantations, You stare in wonder as a Sward rises

from the dirt and lodges itself firmly in your hand.

sis stands back and proclaims you ‘Tancred’s
ei’.

Astragal explains the quest for the Shield that no
other may undertake. No other can strike fear into
the heart of Orghuz or wield the Shining Sword. He
also warms you about the traitor in Gorak: “You must
be on your guard at all times, especially if. . . er,
when you return.’

You strap on plain leather armour and a simple
cloak; Astragal announces that he has no potions
with him to help you in your quest. Instead he picks
up a small cat and passes it to you. ‘This is Tahasha
the Bazouk, from the line of the cat goddesses. She
will stay close to you and help in your quest. Use her
cautiously and wisely; nine times, no more. Now,
there is no time to lose,’ He urges you on to the deep
chasm in the great vault. Tum to1-

23
I-3

1

You leap into the darkness and land on a rocky
slope. Itis VERY dark. Looking up at the hole, you
see the Wizard Astragal waving to you and saying:
‘Remember that you are Tancred’s Heir and -. -
well, good luck.’ You turn back to face the darkness;
Tabasha nestles in your hood and begins to purr. At
the same time the Sword starts to vibrate and shine.
You see the path ahead: several small furry crea-
tures rush for cover. You walk along the rocky
tunnel fora long ime, until itopens outinto a larger
cavern. You find three exits. Which one will you
take: the one on the left (turn to 50), a narrow crack
in the middle (turn to 253), or a wider crack on the
nght, which drops down almost vertically (turn
to 302)?

2

You feel around the cave and find two metal doors:
one marked with the familiar north-west rune, the
other marked north-east. You search around but
find nothing elsein the cave, Do you go through the
north-west door (turn to 277), or go north-east (turn

to 359)?

3
Aspra Smoothcheek sets a fast pace through a small
tunnel. After a while the group stops and begins to
climb up the rocky face of a cliff; they are sure-footed
and show you all the footholds. When you reach the
top you look into the murky darkness and see a
wide tunnel with deep wheel ruts. Soon you can see
torches in the distance, and eventually you can
4-5

make out the group coming towards you: two Dark
Elves on Koyunlu, pulling a cart, with six Ores
shuffling behind on foot. Suddenly Aspra fires an
arrow at one of the Elves. It is deflected by his
armour and impales itself in his arm. He screams as
Aspra and the group leap out. Do you choose toleap
on to the other Dark Elf (hurn to 86), on te the cart
(turn to 192), or among the Orcs (turn to 332)?

The Sword comes to your hand, and you manage lo
cut your bonds as the Orcs turn around and pull out
their scimitars and daggers. You prepare to fight
them, but suddenly an arrow hits you in the arm. It
seems to be tipped with a strange narcotic. You fall
over. One of the Orcs kicks you and tes you up
again. Deduct 1 sk1t1.1.pointand 4 STAMINA points.
Turn to 280.

5
The tunnel opens out into a huge caver; you can-

not see the top or the sides. There is a dull red glow
and you can see several fires dotted near and far. As
you walk further into the cavern, you see signs that
a great battle has recently taken place. Ores, Trolls,
Dwarfs and Gaddon knights are lying all around,

among bits of armour, spears, swordsand machines .

of warfare. Occasionally, furtive creatures appear
and drag one of the dead, or dying, into a dark hole-
To your left you see whatappears to be a ‘last stand’:
a group of warriors are being attacked by a horde of
Orcs. Do you help (turn to 96), ordo you keep under
cover (turn to 380)?

6-5

6
The slug is tasteless and you feel awful putting
the revolting thing into your mouth! You look
at Tabasha and notice that she has keeled over.
Checking that she is still breathing, you put her in
your pocket. You feel dizzy but stay awake. Deduct ,
I SKILL point and tum to 149.

—

7

You throw it into the well, There is a sudden flash!
As the smoke clears you see in front of vou a huge
red creature with horns, fangs and cloyen feet. It
struts about and laughs. The laugh echoes louder
and louder: "You summoned met’ It looks scorn-
fully at you with bright red eyes. “Your wish is my
command.’ You ask for a way out. It laughs again
and then attacks you-

EVIL SPIRIT SKILLS

If you win, you decide to use the rope, Turn to 215.

STAMINA 10

8
You utter the Secret Cypher ‘8’ and the door opens.
You find yourself in yet another dark tunnel. Turn

to-77.
g—-i0

9

You rush to hide behind some rocks. You see the
riders stopping by the cart. Suddenly you hear a
flapping of wings and look up to see two large
fanged bats, sweeping down. You swing your
Sword in the air. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
you have hit one of them and the other takes a bite
out of your neck. Deduct 3 Stamina point. If you
are Unlucky, they both bite you before you Kill
them. Deduct 4 STAMINA points.

The riders head down to where you are hiding. You
Tun asyay, straight into a thick mist. Turn io 92.

19

You carry on walking along the tunnel! until you
stumble on what looks like a large claw, stuck in the
earth. Fascinated, you pull at it and are startled to
see it move! The claw rises out of the ground,
followed by another; then a black, bird-like creature
springs out of its hiding-place- It has four arms and
two wings; you cannot pass it without fighting.

GRIPHAWK SKILL 9 STAMINA 10

If vou win, turn to 74.

11-13

11

You look at Tabasha as if to say “Do what you can.’
(Mark 1 use on the Adventure Sheet. ) The cat purrs
and turns around on her shoulders as the woran
raises her crossbow to shoot you. Suddenly, the
Bazouk pierces her good eye with a sharp claw. The
woman screams and the crossbow fires, but the
arrow misses you. She flails about in a blind rage
and falls into the lava stream. The hormble screams
are soon just echoes in the cavern, Turn to 203.

12
The tangle of roots gets thicker and seems to
squeeze down as you pass. Eventually there is no
way forward or back; you are stuck, and will never
complete your quest.

13
Turn to 206.
14-16

1g

The floor of the hall bursts open and peels back to
the walls. The Ghouls stop and try to run away, but
two huge, dawed, furry hands grab them and pull
them into the pit. You hear their terrified screams as
they plummet into the abyss. Turn to 288.

5
You open the door to find an aged crossbow, loaded
and aiming right at your heart. You look carefully
and see that the twine has frayed, so that it will not
fire. As you step forward, a dagger drops from the
ceiling. Test your Luck, [f you are Unlucky, it plunges
fatally into your skull. If you are Lucky, it misses by
2 whisker, and you step back into the corridor. Tum

to 289.

You stumble around the cave and trip over a pile
of skulls. Something crawls up your ley but you
shake it off. There are exits leading south-east
(ttirn to 205), north-west (turn to 89) or north-east
(turn fo 355).
17=20

a7.
Tabasha sits by your side and sees that you are
getting weaker. She goes off and brings you some
tasty slugs, but you are too weak to raise your
hands. In a short while you lose all interest in the
quest.

18

Tf you have not yet seen it, you come across a huge
wall, protected by watchtowers at intervals of 200
paces. On a plaque ahead you can see a Sword
symbol; to your left you can make out a Dagger
symbol. As you get nearer to the wall you see a rope
hanging down from the battlements, and a Dwart,
lying face down with several arrows in his back. Do
you want to climb the rope (turn to 362), or walk to
the Dagger sector (turn to 154)?

19
You walk over to the Orc. He is reaching for his
knife and you prepare to fight. Suddenly a large
chunk of rock drops out of the roaf. Throw a die for
your position, and then throw a second die for
where the rock lands. If the two numbers maich,
you are crushed to death. lf not, then the rock kills
the Orc, Addi Luck point. You take the exit north

(turn to 337)-

20

The door slams behind youand you are, once again,
in the dark. You feel the walls but find no other
doors. As you walk around you step on a litle
squishy creature that squeaks, and explodes with a

21

blue flash. You slip on several others and then
realize that the chamber is full of these creatures.
Just then you slip on one of therm and your hand
feels this:

“OO
o.0

~
ee

If you recognize the Secret Cypher, you speak the
number and 2 trapdoor opens, revealing a tunnel.
Turn to that number, If not, then the little beasts
crawl all over your bey until they slowly smother
you.

21

You are in a cave full of leather boots. As you touch
them they crumble in your hands. There is a small
door halfway up the wall. lf you choose to go
through it, furn to 39. There are also four other exits.
Which way will you go:

South-east? Turn to 200
West? Turn to 222
East? Turn to188
South-vest? Turn to 107
22=25

22

You find yourself in an old tunnel that gets smaller
and smaller, until you have to walk hunched over.
Suddenly it ends ina chasm. You look carefully, but
even by the light of the Shining Sword you can see
no end to the abyss below. You kick a large rock
over, but you don’t hear it hit the ground. You
cannot see the other side of the chasm. Do you take
a chance and leap across (turn to 363), or go back
(turn to 216)?

a
The Troll is huge and swings a double-daggered
scimitar at you.

TROLL SKILL §
If you win, turn to 236.

STAMINA 10

24

Another door slams behind you, but this time
the Shadow does not follow. The path is still sur-
rounded by swirling smoke. Suddenly, the teeth of
a metal trap snap shut. ‘Throw a die for your posi-
tion, and a second die for where the trap shuts. If
the tvo throws match, you are caught and severely
wounded (deduct 3 sraMINwa points). Repeat twice
and, if you survive, the path divides. Itleads both to
a door cast (turn to 118), and to an exit north (fur
to 339). Which way do you go?

25
As you walk along the track, you have the distinct
feeling that someone, or something, is following

26-27

you. You send Tabasha to scout around, but she
rushes back with her fur standing on end, and
jumps into the safety of your pocket. After a while,
you can hear shuffling steps; you begin to run and
the steps speed up. Out of the comer of your eye
you see a shadowy glimmer chasing you. Throw
two dice: this is the speed of your pursuer, If this is
greater than your STAMINA, turn to 76. If your
STAMINA is greater than, or equal to, the speed of
your pursuer, then turn to 298.

26

You give up your Sword to the leading Marsh
Goblin, realizing that they have mistaken you for
another “Toplander’, and you think that you could
use this to your advantage. Then the first Marsh
Goblin pulls outa metal collar and asks if you would
like to wear it: “You will be more comfortable while
we get vou back.” Do you agree to wear the collar
(furn to 389) or refuse (turn to 295)?

27
In the middle of the cave, three Witches sit around a

fire. They ignore you, but you can see some doors
clearly marked. Which do you choose:

North-east? Turn to 307
North-west? Turn to 188
South-west? Turn to 246
an Se ’
paar _—— eee
or

J

ar
‘a
”
~

_ =
ae
‘
ea

28-29

28

‘Now for you Toplanders. It’s time you had a little
run through the Teeth of Stoma.’ A group of you, all
wearing Xokusai armour, are taken to a large cave.
forches are lit and you can see a tunnel, with
myriad fang-like rocks on the roof. The Ores haul
out large drums and begin to bash them. The long,
thin, dagger-like rocks break off and drop on to the
ground. In the distance, you can see a skeleton with
a spike through its ribcage. An Orc then shouts the
order to run and everybody rushes through. Throw
one die for your position and a second die for
where the rocky spike lands. If the two throws
match, you are killed. Repeat four times. Hf you
survive, turn to 338.

29
You bring up the rear of the group and occasionally
stop to check who is following you. You see-a horde
massing at the end of the tunnel and know that you
have little time. When you get to the others, they are
standing by a fast-flowing river of lava. The heal is
intense. You approach to see a row of tall stepping-
stones spaced wide apart across the red-hot flow.
Aspra grabs one of the Dwarfs and leaps fram stone
to stone, but when she reaches the other side she
collapses. You look closely and notice an arrow in
her thigh. The Dwarf begins to attend to her as you
pick up the other two—one on either side - and leap
across. Throw two dice; this is the distance between
stones. Throw a dic and add the number to your
sTAMuiNA: this is your series of leaps. If your jumps
are equal to, or greater than, the distance, then you
30-31

have made it: turn to 101. If not, then you have
fallen in the lava and your quest ends here.

30

You stand on a wide wall and can hear iron-shod
footsteps close by, The mist has closed in and you
cannot see how high you are. Do you leap off the
wall (turn to 364), or prepare for combat (turn

to 244)?

31

You have uttered the correct Cypher. At first
nothing happens, but then you hear an aged voice
that tells you of the ring. ‘Tt was fashioned to make
Sensewariors invisible in any one combat. Use it
wisely.’ The voice fades. Add 2 LUcK points and
mark the ring under Abilities on your Adrenture
Sheet. You may fight any one foe without any loss of
STAMINA, Turn to 369.

32-33

32

You cautiously tell the Gaddon female of your quest
for Tancred’s Shield. She smiles and you notice lang
fangs showing in her mouth. Her eyes open and
shine bright red as she laughs an evil laugh. She
stands up to her full height, and swipes at you
with a clawed hand; you realize that she is a
Khuddam! Even unarmed she will be a formidable

opponent.
KHUDDAM CHURKA SKILL 10 STAMINA 12

if you win, you rush outside. Do you go left (turn to
167), right (turn to 268}, or straight ahead {tum
to 312)?

You find yourself in a small, narrow tunnel that
eventually ends in two doors; the one on the left is
open, and the one on the right is shut. Through the
thick layer of dust you make out the following
pattern on the left door:

peo «(O9,
DOs ,"-
noo, =.0

And on the other door is carved out:
..0

ifvou know the Secret Cypher to utter for the clased
door, go to that number. Otherwise, go through the
open door (turn to 70).
34

You swing your Sword at the figure but it passes
tight through it, and then the figure passes through
you! You stand there, amazed, as several others
take the same path. Looking around by the light of
the Sword, you find a strange, spiky plant, covered
with small furry animals, and what looks like the
remains of an Orc, impaled on its long, lethal
prongs. You assume that the illusion was created by
the plant to catch its prey. Suddenly you seea group
of riders following your trail. Ahead isa tall volcano,
with hewn steps leading to the top. Do you run up
the steps (turn to 56), or skirt around the base of the
volcano (turn to 116}?

35-36

35
The image shatters and the other two laugh at you.
A fragment of glass strikes you on the arm. Deduct
2 STAMINA points. The grisly voice screams at
you: “Try agam, O blood heir to Tancred the
Magnificent!’

if you have not already done so, choose whether to
strike the figure in the centre (turn to 62) or the
figure on the right (turn to 386).

A huge Troll sees you through a sleepy haze. He
picks his nase, removes some gnstle from between
his fangs and then begins a wail of alarm. You are
suddenly surrounded by three evil, snigsering and

vety large Trolls. Fight each in turn.

SKILL STAMINA
litst TROLL 3% 10
Second TROLL 8 10
Third TROLL 7 8

if you survive, you are amazed that no one else has
awakened as you go through the dour heading east.
Turn to 370.
37-38

37
You grab the wriggling worm, close your eyes, and
bite! You are surprised at the wonderful taste. Add
I STAMINA point, Tabasha looks satished, rubs
herself on your leg, then jumps back on to your
shoulder. Turn to 247.

You strike, but the Sword does not penetrate.
Deduct 2 STAMINA points. If all the Khuddam are
dead on the Adventure Sheet, turn to 385 and strike
again. If there are any Khuddam remaining on your
Adventure Sheet, turn to 309.

SN sO /
t. — ~—
TL . 2. ——_ =
Sp se [= a —_——— yy i’

39-41

You are in a cave, which gives off an intense, bright
light fom an unknown source. The intensity in-
creases until it is unbearable and you cannot move;
all thoughts and remembrances of the previous
caves fly from your mind. Deduct 1 SKILL point.
You feel that you have just entered Minosaddurr,
Turn to 2.

40

You step inte an empty room and hear the voice of
Orghuz: ‘You cannot escape from me, blood heir,
but I will not kill you; you will kill yourseif. In this
room your worst nightmares will come to lite and
grow in intensity, until death.’

41

The Dwarf rushes over to a stone pillar and grips it
tight. He does not answer you or budge from his
position. You leave him there. ‘Turn to 22.

42-43

-
You utter the Cypher and the door opens. You step

in and it shuts behind you. In the distance is a dim
light and you follow a straight tunnel towards it.
Suddenly you feel sharp bites on your neck and
shoulders {deduct 1 STAMINA point). Looking up,
you see a mass of fanged mice leaping off the roof of
the tunnel on tu you. Tabasha attacks with the style
of a true huntress, but even she cannot fight them
all. Throw a die. If you throw 3 or less, you have
warded off most of the mice: deduct 1 STAMINA
pomt. If you throw 4 or 5, deduct 3 STAMINA
points; you have been well bitten! If you throw a 6,
deduct 1 SKILL point.

You reach the end of the tunnel. Tabasha the
Bazouk follows with several mice in hermouth, and
catches up with you as you stare at a well-
constructed wall. You are in a corridor of what
seems to be an old fortress. Do you wish to go left
(turn to 179) or right (turn to 198)?

43
You run out of the door, straight into a squad of
Ores. They grab you and one of them hits you over
the head with a large club. Deduct 4 STAMINA
points and 1 SKILL point. Turn to 123.
44-45

44

You drop down the cliff, Test your Luck. If you are
Unlucky, you slide all the way down to the ‘bottom
and break every bone in your body. If you are
Lucky, you catch the ledge directly below (deduct 1
STAMINA point). The ledge leads to the left (turn to
321) and to the nght (turn to 250). Which way do
you choose?

45

You are in a boiling-hot cave; a narrow channel in
the middle of the cave carries a white-hot stream of
lava, The rock floor begins to bum through your
boots. Sparks fly around and hit you. Throw adie. If
you throw 1 to 3, throw asecond die, and deduct the
result from your STAMINA score. You find four
doors; which do you choose:

South-west? Tum to 8
West? Turn 10 168
East? Turn to 222
South-east? Turn [0355

46-48

Turn to 38.

47
As the Feelbrethren feed you, they listen to the

details of your quest. The Gaddon curse at the very
mention of Orghuz: "The Evil that has made us
outlaws in our own lands.’ They tell you that the
Fellcohorts, led by a Khuddam, are besieging
Caverndown — one of the last great fortresses of the
Gaddon. It is decided to help you in your joumey.

After a good rest (add 4 STAMINA points), the
Battlemaster Gorodin comes to teach you the secrets
of Sensefight. You are given a Dark Helm and he
whispers the Spell of Darksight. He tells you not to
rely on the shine of the Sword, for this can be
dimmed by any competent Spelleaster. You are a
200d pupil. Mark the ability of Sensefight on the
Adventure Sheet. In any blind combat you will have
good fighting ability. Turn to 322.

You have identified the traitor. Me runs away down
the corridor, but is cut down by a particularly
vicious spell from Astragal. Turn to 400.
49-50

49

As you approach, the woman draws her bowstring
further back and the Dwarfs rush out to grab your
Sword. They look carefully at Tabasha, who begins
to sharpen her claws on your cloak, and decide to
leave her alone. One of the Dwarfs then pulls outa
small wand and twirls it in the air while muttering
a strange spell, You see stars swirling around your
head and then you collapse. Turn to 352-

50

You enter the tunnel and notice shapes carved m the
rock, but can make no sense of them. You under-
stand the vulgar runes (i.e. letters of a mysterious
ancient alphabet), but these patterns are merely
raised circles and squares, set in blocks. You travel
down the sloping path, which eventually ends ina
larger tunnel that has two deep ruts worn along its
visible length. You guess that many carts used this
route in years gone by. Do you choose to turn left
along the tunnel (turn to 213), or will you go right
{turn to 135)?

51

The door snaps shut after you enter. You realize that
the doors allow easy access, but will not let you
return the way you came. You find yourself in a
kind of trophy room: there are swords, spears, suits
of armour and stuffed heads of strange, horned
beasts. In the corner you see a set of crossbows and
then suddenly hear the twang of the arrows being
shot. Test your Luck. Tf you are Unlucky, then you are
hit by an arrow whose fatal poison acts very quickly.
if you are Lucky, all the arrows miss and you find
three exits. Which do you choose:

North? Turn to 40
West? Turn to 224
East? Turn to 292
~~ 8 i
> Ra, eis
ee Sn i
ae oo a A
52

The force has steadied itself in a defensive position
and is harassing what appears to be the kitchen
contingent of the Orc forces. Suddenly there is a
roar, and screaming begins as the main Gaddon
attack charges into the enemy's flank. The Orcs are
cut down; many lose heart and flee. The day is won
for the Sensewarriors of Caverndown. Khazara
appears, covered in scratches and cuts, and thanks
you for your help. She knows that you cannot wastc
any time away from your quest. You are taken to the
end of the cavern and shown a tunnel. You walk
inside it for a long time. You pass a smaller tunnel
on your left, but decide to carry on. Tabasha jumps
oul of your pocket and walks ahead, stretching and
sniffing, until she stops in front of a pile of rubble:
the tunnel has collapsed! Turn to 178.

53755

33

When everything is packed and ready, the Trogs set
off. You sit at the back of the cart and listen to the
one called Cliptongue sing a song about cutting
limbs off various creatures. Suddenly the cart stops
and the Trogs stare into the distance. You fullow
their gaze and seea group of riders heading towards
you. Do you leap off the carl (turn to 9), orstay (turn
to 95)?

You are safe. Now do you choose:

Left? Tum to 108
Right? Turn to 166
Forward? Turn to 396

55
When you get back, one of the Marsh Goblins pads
into the room with two knights, and points to you.
They rush over to grab you, and you pull out your
Sword. Fight each in turn.

SKILL STAMINA
First KNIGHT 5 8
Second KNIGHT - 8

if you win, you rush out of the hut. Turn to 388.
56-57

56
You rush up the steps and look up to see lava
dribbling down from the lip of the voleano. As you
climb, a large vampire bat occasionally swoops
down and attacks you. Throw two dice. If you
throw any double, you have been bitten: reduce
your STAMINA by the value of one die.

Behind you, the chasing riders halt. They do not
follow but watch you carefully to see if you turn
back. Suddenly there is a spray of lava. Throw a die;
this is your position. Throw a second die: this is
where the lava lands. If the two numbers match,
you have been hit by the lava: reduce your
STAMINA by 2 points,

You reach the top of the steps and come to a large
entrance above which you see:

ooo OF. NT 3*B
a oa: coc and ees peo
= oe Co “. ~o

You enter the volcano. Turn to 356.

57
The gates creak open and you are greeted bya group

of heavily armed Gaddon Sensewarriors. They
hurry you along towards a shelter, but you all run
into a shower of long black arrows. Twa warriors are
hit; everyone scatters. Do you run:

Forward? Turn to199
Left? ‘Turn to 234
Right? Turn to 335
You climb down the rope and reach the base of
Fellscar Crags! You wait to see if there is anyone
following, but no one appears. Add 1 LUCK point.
You walk on into the vast darkness and find some-
where safe to rest. Tabasha jumps out and goes off
hunting. On her return she is dragging a large, red
fish. You eat the fish (add 4 sTAMINA points, if
eaten raw; add 2 extra points if you have Fuel to
cook with, and deduct 1 unit of Fuel from your
Avventure Sheet}. Tabasha the Bazouk does not eat
anything until you finish and then she eats all the
bones.

As your eyes get used to the strange red glow of the
yast cavern, you set off in no particular direction.
After a while you come across a well-made road,
with deep cartwheel ruts in the stone. It heads dead
straight into the distance. Do you follow the road
(turn to 304), head off to the left (turn to 259), or go
to the right (turn to 136)?

59-60

59
The noise has alerted a troop of Orcs and they
surround you. Swinging your Sword at them, you
realize that you can break out, but you will have to
fight two of them. Fight each in turn.

SKILL STAMINA
First ORC 6 5
Second ORC rd 6

If you win, you have nowhere else to go, sa you
rush towards the Sensewarriors. Turn to 96.

60
A large boulder just misses you. The rumbling
continues, and then the gravel begins to tremble
under your feet. You stand back as a gruesome
Earthshaker rattles out of the rocks; as it trembles it
shatters any loose rocks that touch it. Itis blind, but
huge, and blocks the tunnel. Do you decide to fight

it (turn to 395), or do you prefer to mun (turn to 191)?
61

61

The trapdoor shuts behind you and in the pitch-
darkness you can feel steps leading down. As you
climb down you can feel a strange warmth, as
though you were getting nearer to an invisible
flame. Just then, the Sword begins to glow and you
see 2 large stone cauldron. Around it are four seated
figures with swords in hand; they wear ornate
armour and do not move. You know that this is the
Heartflame; here you must temper your Sword. You
walk forward and plunge your Sword into the
cauldron. Suddenly there is a great cry: you sce a
Dark Shadow writhing, and smell a filthy stench.
The figure clutches at its left fuze! When you lift the
blade out, it is at first invisible. Then it takes on its
old shape and shines as never before. Add 2 Luck
points and 1 SKILL point. Mark on your Adventure
Steet Abilities box that your Sword has been tem-
pered by the Heartflame, and remember any other
secrets you may have gleaned. You then hear the
Guards of the Heartflame chanting and everything
disappears. Tum to 100.

62-64

62
The image shatters and sharp slivers of glass
impale themselves all over your body. Deduct 2
STAMINA paints. Orghuz laughs at you and asks
you to try again. If you have not already done so,
choose whether you strike to the left (turn to 35) or
to the risght (turn to 386})-

63

He sniffs at you. “You smell of the Toplands. Well
met!’ He slaps you on the back and your Sword
begins lo glow. ‘Tam Gregory, son of Baldwin, son
of Edwin, son of Eleanor, daughter of Dermott the
Freeman, whose cousin Keyin Knucklesnap fought
with Tancred at the Chasms of Gloom. My mother’s
kin ...' Gregory proceeds to relate a complete
family tree as you follow him. Turn to 313.

b4
You wake up to find yourself chained te. a rackona
great cliff top, overlooking a vast cavern. Your
Sword and belongings are still on you and you can
feel abasha in your pocket. Standing all around are
Orcs wearing the fighting armour of the Mailed Fist:
the symbol of the élite Xokusai Orcs. The c@ptain
stands next io you and is obviously waiting for
someone: ‘Damn Khuddam; kill my soldiers for
sport and then don’t furn up for the Chase.” A
nearby lieutenant reminds him that the ceremony
must begin at the appointed time laid down by the
Prophecy of Mukinahdun, At the mention of this
word all the Xokusai Ores kneel down and stab their
daggers into the ground. Then the captain calls out

65

‘The Chase has begun. Release the prey and
summon the Gryphons!’ Your bonds are cut and a
drum pounds outa regular rhythm, until a flapping
of wings and snarling and snapping announce the
artival of the Gryphons: flying, fire-breathing
creatures, each with the body ofa lion and the wings
of a dragon.

The drum beats and vou are pushed forward to the
edge of the cliff as the Orcs recite an incantation ina
strange dialect. Finally you are pushed down on toa
narrow ledge and told to ‘Run for your life.’ Turn to
138.

‘lL would never try to fish like them,’ says Aspra as
she looks at the fish on the ground: they have huge
fangs and half their bodies are mouth. However,
when cooked, they taste delicious. Soon the others
arrive and they all sit in a circle and sing of old times
beneath the Mountain. Add 4 staMtNa points.
labasha finishes off the bones, licks herself all over
and settles down to sleep.

After a while Aspra begins to prepare foraraid, and
asks if you wish to stay at the camp or go with her
to attack one of Orghuz’s provision carts. Do you
choose to stay (furn to 265), or do you go (turn to 3)?
66-67

66 .

You shut the door and you can hear scrabbling and
howling. The door stays shut as you tum around to
look at the roum, which is long and thin, with exits
north and west. Many swords and daggers are
suspended from the ceiling by thin twine. Sud-
denly, a deep, evil laughter booms out, and one of
the swords drops. It crashes into the floor close to
you, Chouse an exit. If you go west, throw a die for
your position and a die for where the sword drops.
If the two match, you have been struck and Killed.
Repeat three times and, if you survive, tum to 40- if
you go north, repeat, as above, five times. If you
survive, tum fo 297.

67
The ledge gets wide cnough to allow you room to
swing the Sword. You take a rest and await the
Ores, Suddenly they appear: six of them —one bent

68—6y

over, sniffing the ground. They attack, and you kill
one of them with a single blow. The others mass,
Sut cannot surround you; you can try to parry their
thrusts. Throw two dice to show the number of
thrusts the Orcs attempt, and throw two dice,
again, for the number you manage to parry. If the
thrusts are greater than the parties, then reduce
your STAMINA by 1 point for each.

Suddenly a Gryphon appears and interrupts the
combat; it flies down and swipes at the Orcs, forcing
them away. They leave you tu the beast.

GRYPHON
if you win, you find a gently sloping ledge on the

left (furn to 229}, or a steeper route night (turn
to 117).

SKILLS STAMINA 10

68
You are in a chamber with two doors heading wesl.
Do you choose the left-hand door (turn to 219) or the
nght (turn to 120)?

6g

You leave the Dragon’s Breath Inn by a side door.
The directions you were given are precise paces and
touchstones. You see the expected rouygh-hewn
stime stairway and you begin a long, winding
climb. After a while, you find yourself walking on
spiky rocks and notice that the roof of the tunnel is
corered with them. They look very dangerous.
suddenly you hear a crack. Test your Lick. Lf you are
Lucky, turn to 347- If you are Unlucky, tum to197. -
70-71

70
The tunnel leads downwards and you begin to feel
very cold. Suddenly your feet slip from under you
and you sit down on what seems to be a frozen
underground river. Your Sword has left your grasp
and has slithered away, As you get up, there is a
crecking sound and three eyes poke up out of the
xe, followed by several spiked tentacles. You run
cowards your Sword, but a tentacle wraps itself
around your ankle. Have you the strength to reach
your Sword? Throw two dice: this is the strength
needed. If this is greater than your sTAMINA, then
you are dragged down to your death in the icy deep.
if your STAMINA is equal to, or greater than, the
strength, then you reach the Sword and chop at the
tentacles. You scramble away across the river inta
another tunnel. Turn to 103.

You are in another chamber, The yolcano rumbles
and the ground shakes. Ahead are two other holes.
Do you wish to go left {turn to 177) or right (turn
> 327)?
When you wake up, you open and shut your eyes
butit makes nv difference: it is still completely dark.
‘Ah, good, you have slept well, I trust?" You can tell
that it is the voice of Alkis Fearslicer. He tells you
how he evaded the Khuddam and spent the rest of
the time Jaying false trails. “The evil ones are not yet
strong enough fo attack Govanthian, but soon. ..
Your quest must succeed.” In the darkness you are
taught to Sensefight (mark this on the Abilities box
of your Adventure Sheet) and are taught the secrets
of the Feelbrethren Cyphers. Tur to 399, examine
the illustration and remember to come back to this
point.

You are then taken to the Govanthian Tunnels. You
say your goodbyes to the people of the dark and
enter a tunnel. After a while the path divides; one
leads up (turn to 393), the other goes down (turn te
33). Which do you take?

73-74

73

You race past and kick a trip line, which disturbs a
mass of Dwarf skulls. As they rattle they alert half a
dozen Orcs from the élite ‘fighting Xokusai’, who
rush out and chase you. Unlike most of the Orc
watrior clans, they do not squabble among them-
selves but follow with speed, efficiency and
cunning. Do you run up some stairs on the left
‘turn to 182), or eo straight ahead ( tum to 240)?

74
You walk down the tunnel. In the distance you can

make out some blazing torches and, as yon yet
nearer, the lunnel opens outinto a cavern. On the
nght is a stone building with small round windows
and six torches blazing above the entrance.
Standing outside are two large-horned Kayunlu,
hamessed to a cart. Just below the torches is the
famous Dragon’s Breath Inn and Alehouse. As you
stand there, a large figure in a black cloak comes aut
of the building and falls flat on its face. Do you help
(turn to 257), or do you prefer to keep a low profile
(turn t 353)?
79-77

73
When you step to the left, a trapdoor opens, and
you fall into a pit full of sharp metal spikes. Test your
Luck. If you are Unlucky, you are impaled and die
instantly. Lf you are Lucky, you land more or less
safely (deduct 1 STAMINA point) and find a cob-
webbed door that opens easily. Turn to 143.

‘There is a slicing sound and you look ata cutm your
cloak. Turning around, you see an indistinct figure
that shimmers in a dark haze. You cannot see the
weapon but can only hear it cutting through the air-
You will have to Sensefight (check your Adventure
Sheet to see if you have that ability) If you are able to
Sensefight, then fight as normal. If not, reduce
your SKILL by 2 for this combat only.

SHIMMERA

if you win, turn to 298-

SKILLG STAMINA 10

77
As you walk along the tunnel, you begin to despair
about the quest. You sit down, drop your Sword
and hold your head in your hands. The task seems
too difficult. Tabasha tries to cheer you up by
chasing her tail and behaving like a Kitten, but it
does no good — you are miserable. Suddenly the
Sword shines very brightly and rises up in front of
you. An ancient voice speaks out: ‘Do not despair.
You are close to the Caves of Minosaddurr, Seek out
the Heartflame, the weakness of Orghuz. Temper
your Sword there, But first, beware the Three Stone

78

Wraiths: one that always tells the truth, one that
always lies, and one that always changes from truth
to les to truth.” You are filled with a new-found
determination (add 1 SKILL point) as you set off
along the tunnel. Turn to 252.

As you step into the room you hear the flap of wings
and the scream of a Gargoyle from the tower. It
rushes into the room and you swipe at it with your
Sword (One-Stike Combat). If you hit, then you
have wounded it. It screams, and you have time to
rush into the next room. [fit hits you, then reduce
your STAMINA by 2 points before rushing into the
other room.

You shut the door but know that you cannot stop
the beast from breaking in. You make a dash across
the room to the next door. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 220. [f you are Unlucky, the Gargoyle
bursts in and you will have to fight it.

GARGOYLE

if you win, turn to 110.

SKILL 9 STAMINA 10

79-80

73
The woman helps you to get better and, as she
prepares a broth, gives you good advice: ‘Seck the
Caves of Minosaddurr; there you will find the
means to destroy the evil of Onghuz. Seek the Three
Stone Wraiths spoken of in legends.’ Then she
begins to recite:

‘One that alivays tells the truth,

One that always fells 2 Ite,

And one that always tells a truth
Followed ty a lie, followed by 2 truth.

These are the Guardians of the Caves where the
Heartflame burs. Temper your Sword there; you
cannot hope to strike at the Evil One without killing
all his Seven Servants . . . aaah.’ She stands stock
still, her eyes glaze over and she says no more. You
leave her there and go outside to 2 tunnel. Do you
turn left (turn to 144), or choose to go nght (turn fo
252)?

You get up and run into the Orcs, who have caught
up with you, They are very brave when there are
lots of then. You stand no chance.

81-83

81

4s you rest from your labours, you notice the other
Heures tuming to flesh. You start to run, but crash
mto someone standing behind you. He looks at the
Hsures and speaks in a muted tone; they slowly
change back to wood. You look at him: he is huge,
with a large beard, very strong and carries a massive
two-headed axe. Tum to 63.

82
The track is well made. You confidently step on toa
fat rock. It gives way and a dart shaots into your
soot. Deduct 3 STAMINA points. Turn to 304,

83

the door slams behind you. It is dark and misty, but
you can see enough to know that you are ona small
salcony outside the tower. You cannot jump down
pecause of the moat of poisonous slime. Just then,
you see two fiery eyes and hear a flapping of wings
25a Gargoyle spots you and sinks its thick claws into
your ribcage. Your adventure is over,
84-85

The room is large, with a great fire burning at one
end. There are dark abicles all around, and several
people stare at you as you enter. To one side you
hear the screams of Orcs enjoying themselves, and
m the corner sits a miserable-looking Dwarf, wear-
ing a metal collar. ‘Gaddon, where’s my foad?’
screams a Troll, while he punches bits out of the
wall. The Gaddon walks in: she is blind, but seems
tp sense her way around without any trouble. She
deposits a flagon and plate on the Troll’s table,
comes over to you and sniffs. “You smell of 'Top-
lander. Why have you come here? There is preat
danger.’ Do you choose to confide in her (turn
to 225), or decide to leave at once {turn to 43)?

35

Tur to 206.

86-87

86
The Dark Elf pulls out a short-sword and stabs you
in the side. Deduct 1 SKILL point and 4 STAMINA
points. You struggle with him: he drops his sword
and you fight unarmed.

DARK ELF

If double 1 is thrown, the one whose Attack Round
it is has fallen off the cart and is crushed to death
under its wheels. If you win, you drive the cart back
to the others, who take all the food and weapons
they can carry. You make your way back to amp.
Tur to 124.

SKILL B STAMINA 6

You are wise to head directly for the creature; it has —
already released other traps. There is a foul stench =
of decaying flesh as you climb on to its ribeage. The »

next door is clase enough to leap across, if you have

enough sTamIna. Throw two dice: this is the dis- 7

tance. If the distance is greater than your STAMINA,
vou fall on to the floor, are transfixed by several
spears and eventually die. If your STAMINA is equal
to, or greater than, the distance, then you have
jumped well, Turn to 257.

88—B9

88

As the cart passes, you slip in. ltis driven by a Dwarf
who ts wearing a metal collar. The gates open, then
shut behind the cart. Whenit stops, you hear orders
being shouted: ‘Search the cart, you filth. HE wants
no strangers getting in.” Another voice growls and
mutters an obscenity. Then a spear is shoved into
the skins. Throw a die: this is your position. Throw a
second die: this is where the spear is thrust. If the
two numbers match, you are speared (deduct 2
STAMINA points). Repeat three times. If you sur-
vive, you slip away in the darkness. Turn to 159.

8
You are im a cave of ice zy as you walk around,
huge icicles drop from the top of the cave and
shatter on the floor. Test your Luck. If you are Un-
lucky, you are hit by one and Killed. If you are
Lucky, your numb fingers detect three doors.
Which do you enter:

North-west? Turn ti) 168
North-east? Tur to45
South-east? Turn to 16

—_—

90-91

The ground rises until] you suddenly come to a
sharp drop. You can hear sniffing and snarling
getting closer, so you decide to leap into the mist.
Test your Luck. If you are Unlucky, you land badly
and break both legs. You lie there until a dumsy
Troll falls over you. He sees you, licks his lips, and
you are never heard of again. If you are Lucky, turn
ta 364.

You follow the footprints into the southern exit. The
corridor is very dusty and the occasional furry crea-
ture scuttles across your path, leaving faint tracks.
Tabasha chases a few of the creatures but soon gives
up the sport. Up ahead, where the footprints end,
you see a bundle on the ground. As you get nearer
you see that it is a dead Trog. On its finger you
notice a bright ring with a gemstone that gleams and
sparkles in the dim light. Do you take the ring and
put it on (turn to 153), or leave it alone and carry on
(turn to 22)?

92-93

gz

You stumble about in the thick mist. You can hear
shrieks and calls far away — Koyunlu hoofs on the
rocks and the clatter of iron-shod Ore feet. You can
work out the general direction that you were head-
ing for, but for a specific bearing, you will have to
guess. Which will you choose:

Bearing A? ‘Turn to 320
Bearing B? Turn to 243
Bearing C? Turn to 134
Bearing D? Turn to18

93
You climb down the rope into the darkness. lt feels
hot and sticky; suddenly you realize that it is alive!
You try to scramble up again, but it wraps itscli
around you. You are draped into a caye, never to
be seen again.

94-95

94
You jump over and rush off. One of the hunters

detects your scent and give chase. You stop, Sword
at the ready, and prepare for baitle.

BLACK RIDER

If you win, you rush off into the stream before the
other riders appear. Turn to 263.

SKILL 9 STAMINA 12

95
You are quickly surrounded by the riders. There are

about a dozen of them, including 2 black-cloaked
Khuddam. As you crouch behind the blocks, they
begin to ask the Trogs rapid questions. The Trogs,
being slow-witted, cannot understand them. The
riders get cross and gallop off. Add 2 LUCK points.

96-97

You slip off the cartas a thick mist descends. Turn to
320.

96

You burst through a line of Orc crossbowmen and
rush for cover. Test your Luck. If you are Unlucky,
throw a die: it shows the number of bolts that have
hit vou. They are not poisonous and easy to remove
— deduct 1 stamina point for each. If you are
Lucky, you have made it to the defended line and
are greeted by the Gaddon knights; thirty of them,
all wounded, and all blind. Their leader Alkis Fear-
slicer approaches, and you explain your quest;

occasionally an arrow lands close by. Alkis recounts
how the Gaddon raised the standard of the Feel-
brethren, with the objective of ridding their land of
the Khuddam and their followers. But the Gaddon
never realized that there would also be so many Fell
creatures to fight. Alkis then calls out: ‘Saliac, we
must use the Crystal.’ A tall warrior with a large
black beard warns of the dangers, but a fresh hail of
arrows seems to change his mind, Turn to 1ga.

97
The trapdoor bursts open and in a swirl of blue

smoke Goblin guards rush in, waving evil wands.
Have you the strength to ward off their necro-
mancy? Throw two dice. lf the result is greater
than your sTAMIN 4, then you are struck down and
your quest ends here. If your sTAMINA is equal
to, or greater than, the throw, then you survive
(deduct t sTAMINA point). You rush out with the
others. Turn to 375-
98-99

You push yourself into the niche. The group stops
and you hear a woman's voice: ‘Come out of there!”
You look out and see a hooded woman aiming a
longbow at you. Around her stands a group of
Dwarfs. One at the front holds a torch and you
notice that they are all wearing metal collars. Do you
come out (turn to 49) or run for it (burn to 175)?

You wander around the cave. The Sword will not
shine and you can hear Tabasha miaowing from
actoss the cavernous gloom. You go to her and she
leaps on to your head. You reach out and feel the
sides of the cave. You make out these shapes:

-O- LOL
0.0 i a
ao Ouc

if you recognize these symbols, utter the Secret
Cypher and go to that section. You will be told
straight away if a door opens. If you do not want to
go through the door, or do not know the Cyphers,
there is another tunnel in the dark recesses, Turn to

317.
98-99

98

You push yourself into the niche. The group stops
and you hear a woman’s voice: ‘Come out of there!’
You look out and see a hooded woman aiming a
longbow at you. Around her stands a group of
Dwarfs. One at the front holds a torch and you
notice that they are all wearing metal collars. Do you
come out (turn to 49) or run for it (turn to 175)?

You wander around the cave. The Sword will not
shine and you can hear Tabasha miaowing from
across the cavernous gloom. You go to her and she
leaps on to your head. You reach out and feel the
sides of the cave. You make out these shapes:

.o, UCL
o.0 noon
oe. oco

if you recognize these symbols, utter the Secret
Cypher and go to that section. You will be told
Straight away if a door opens. If you do not want ta
go through the door, or do not know the Cyphers,
there is another tunnel in the dark recesses, Turn to

317-
100-101

100

You find yourself in a dark chamber. As you stum-
ble around in the gloom, you find a well. Looking
down, you see nathing but darkness, and when you
throw a rock into it you hear nothing. You walk
around the well and find a rope attached to the
inside. There seems to be no other way out of the
chamber. Just then you see a small leather purse.
Opening it you find that it contains a silver coin. Do
you choose to throw the com into the well (tum to
7), or will you leave the purse and climb down the
rope (turn to 215)?

101
When you get to the other side, Aspra is pouring a
potion on to her wound. She recovers while spor-
adic arrows land close by, and you all rush away.
The Ores leap up and down and start fighting
among themselves, As you explain your quest to
Aspra, she tells you that the road you are travelling
wall get much more difficult when you enter the
lands under Orghuz’s direct control.

When you stop fora short rest, Aspra Smoothcheek
tells you her history: she was of Toplander stock but
was brought up by the Feelbrethren and has since
joined the band of rogue Dwarfs, living off what-
ever is available. She looks at the Dwarfs who are
fishing in a small rushing stream: they plunge their
hands in and pull out large, while, blind fish. I
looks easy. While Aspra is distracted with distant
thoughts, do you have a go (turn to 184), orlet them
get on with il (turn to 65}?

102-103

102
You have learnt your lesson well. The Gaddon have
taught you a valuable skill. When you come out of
the library rou see a great muster of knights. Kha-
Zara and the other Sensewarriors are discussing
plans for breaking the Great Siege that is slowly
taking its toll. The consensus isascheme involvinga
large diversionary attack, followed by a swift blow
to the Pell Army's flank. The warmiors are allocated
toa the two groups — the diversion {turn to 308}, and
the main thrust (turn to 158). Which do you join?

103

The roof of the tunnel gets very low and you have to
crouch over. As you do so vou see black seams of
coal on the floor. IF you wish to hack some out and
putit into your Fuel pouch, do so now {mark 2 units
in the Fuel box of your Adventitre Sheet and deduct 1
STAMINA point). Whether or not you take the Fuel,
turn to 230.
104-105

104

You pick up the gold. The old man sighs and turns
his face away from you. “You will find it hard to
succeed in your quest; your heart is tempted by
greed and thus you have failed the test.’ You are
taken to a rocky tunnel by a silent Gregory. He says
no farewell. You trudge along for a long time. After
a while it begins to get unbearably hot. Turn to £12.

105

You stand your ground and the Sword shines
brightly. The Orcs see you. One of them drops his
torch and pulls out a sword, “Go away, the Dwartis
ours,’ he hisses al you. You say nothing and the Orc
realizes that he'll have to light you-

SCAVENGER ORC

As you fight, the second Ore grabs the metal collar
and runs away, chuckling at his cleverness. lf you
win, turn to 281.

SKILL 6 STAMINA §

106-107

106

When you reach the top of the stairs, you find
yourself in a dark chamber; the only light comes
from a firing-shit in the wall. Suddenly there are the
sounds of scuttling and a chain rattling. Something
snaris and rushes towards you from the direction of
the stairs. You see two doors; do you go through the
exit south (turn to 132) or the exit west (turn to 180)?

107

You are in a cave, which occasionally flashes a
bright blue. There is a wonderful smell of food
cooking, and in the intermittent light you find some
that proves to be delicious. Just then you notice a
Dwarf in the corner; he is sitting there with a tank-
ard of ale in one hand and a happy smile on his face.
You feel good, and begin to think that you ought to
stay here. Throw two dice: this is the strength of the
attraction to stay. If the throw is greater than your
STAMINA, then you will stay and never complete
your task. If you resist, you find four exits. Which
do you choose:

South-west? Tum to 264
South-east? Turn to 334
North-west? Tur to 222
North-east? Turn to 22
wees
Reta >
2S es er '
108—109

108

You choose correctly. You step forward and find
yoursclf safely across the lava river. Looking back,
you see a horde of Orcsin the red glow- You begin to
run, weaving from side to side, as black arrows drop
all around you. You run fast until you are exhausted
and stop for a moment behind a large boulder
(deduct 2 STAMINA points). Just then you see a
small hole, big enough for you to crawl in and hide.
Do you go to ground (furn to 241), Or carry on
running (turn to 80)?

ang

You rush into the shelter and all the arrows miss.
Add 1 tuck point. From there, you watch the
injured wartiors stagger around, chanting spells.
An arrow in one of them begins to burn and then
disappears; she collapses and dies. Another man-
ages to pull the arrow out of his arm and gets to the
shelter. Turn to 47-

110-111

110

This time, the door slams behind you. You are ina
room with torches blazing, and you can see two
small Ores, who seem to be repairing a crack in the
wall, They are not armed, and stand amazed as you
pass them on your way to the only other door
heading north. You enter a room to find nathing
but two exits. Do you go north (turn to 132}, or west
(turn to 20)?

411

As you head for the Arrow sector, a sure-sighted
Ore sees you and fires with his longbow. Test your
Luck. If you are Unlucky, you are wounded (deduct
2 STAMINA points). If you are Lucky, he misses.
You quickly turn back towards the Dagger sector.
Tum to 154.

412-113

412

The heat increases and the dim, red light in the
distance becomes very bright. The ground trembles
25 you eventually come to a fast-flowing river of
lava. The path leads to a row of stepping-stones and
you have no other way to go but across. Halfway to
the other side, with your boots scorching, you look
up and ahead seea figure holding a crassbow aimed
at your heart. She orders you to drop your Sword
mto the river. You are three steps from her. Do you
drop your Sword in the lava (turn to 365), or risk
rushing across (turn fo 202)?

113

You rush through the door and slam it behind you.
You are dismayed when it begins to fade and then
disappear. You then run down some steps but, by
the time you reach the bottom, the wolves are all
around you. You prepare to fight each in turn.

SKIL! STAMINA
First WOLFHAG 6 8
Second WOLFHAG 7 10
Third WOLFHAG 6 8

if you survive, you return to the previous room and
20 through the door heading north. Turn to 66.
114-116

114
The chest is easy to prise open. Inside you find
parchments written in the vulgar runes, telling
the history of the castle. It was originally built by

the Gaddon, but they left after a great siege by the”
forces of Evil, The Gaddon tumed the castle into

giant trap and spent their last days casting Spells of
Doom and Despair. On another parchment are frag-
ments of spells; only one of them ts legible:

The Casting of Creatures to the Bottomless Pit

Thrice round weave, twice up and twice down,
And make the sign of the Seven Senses of Dismay-

You decide to learn this Spell; you may have a use
For it. Turn to 397-

15

You squelch around the back of the rock and hide
from the strangers, Sword at the ready. As you
stand there, two clawed hands rise from the marsh
and pull you down into the mire. You were unwise
to move off the path. Your mission is over.

116

You mun straight into a patrol of six mounted Xoku-
sai Orcs. They all throw spears at you. Test your
Luck, Ifyou are Unlucky, you are wounded; they
capture you and fit a metal collar on you. Orghuz
now has you in his power and you can do nothing.
Your quest is over, Lf you are Lucky, they all miss,
and you tum back up the steps of the volcano. Tum
to 56.

117-118

117
You cannot see any Orcs, but can hear muttering
and squealing. Suddenly a shower of rocks and

Doulders drops on you. Throw a die. If you throw 3

or less, most of the racks miss you. Deduct the
throw from your STAMINA points. You turn back
(tum to 2209). If you throw 4 to 6, you are crushed,
and your quest ends here.

118

You are on a ledge on the outside of the tower.
Down below, you notice an Orcarcher looking up at
you. There is nowhere to run to, The Orc seems to

be waving at somethiny on the root of the tower.

Suddenly you are in the middle of a shower of lava,
poured by two Ores above you. Your adventure is
over.
.
ae a

‘ A
“ee arn
iid

1ig~120

119

The Dark Elf stares at you with glowing red eyes and
fingers his staff, which radiates a bluish hight. “Who
dares cross Midnight Chasin?’ he shouts, and walks
on to the perilous bridge. He looks you up and
down. ‘Aye, you'll be fine for my lord’s slave
battalion, when you wear the collar." He begins to
cross the bridge, but stops when he sees you pull
out your Sword. He realizes that he has got a fight
on his hands.

DARK ELF SKILL 8 STAMINA 6

If at any time double 1 is thrown, then that com-
batant has fallen off the bridge. lf you win, you cross
the bridge and carry on along the path. Turn to 249.

1

120

As you step on to a ledge, the door slams behind
you. Above you is a Spike-Tailed Lizard, which
drops and sinks its claws into you, It forces you off
the ledge and into the moat of poisonous slime . .
121-123

12i
You jump into one of the trenches, but the ground
collapses and you fall down, deep into a mine shaft.
Your quest is over.

122
You are in the army commander's sleeping-
quarters; there are bundles and blankets every-
where. You creep carefully towards the only door
leading east. You must be silent. Throw a die to
show the level of silence required to awaken the
lightes! sleeper; throw a second dic to show the
level of noise you make. If it is equal to, or greater
than, the first throw, then one of the bundles stirs
(turn to 36). If not, then you go through the door
east (turn to 370).
123

You wake up in the back of a creaking cart, trussed
up and with a Dwarf’s foot sticking in your face. You
look around and see four other bundles in the cart.
Two Ores sit at the front, arguing and occasionally
scratching at each other. Behind the cart you can
just see a group of exhausted Trolls trying to keep
up. You also see your Sword stuck in a barrel near
the Ores. As you stare, the Sword begins to vibrate
and moves out of the barrel towards you. Do you
want lo attempt an escape now (turn to 4), or wait
and prepare yourself {turn to 280)?

124~125

124
On your return to camp, all the plundered pro-
sions are laid out and marked by Aspra Smooth-
check. All wounds are attended to, and non-
>erishable goods taken away and hidden. She tells
you that the tunnels ahead are very dangerous; you
woll find no friends there. All the Gaddon who once
owned these lands have been enslaved or killed.
she stops talking and stares into the distance. You
are given food (mark 2 meals on the Adzventure
Sheet). You say your farewells and are given a choice
of entry into the Lands of Malice— the Crying Spring
(turn to 283}, or Downdrop Cavern (tum to 357).

125
the door snaps shut behind you and, as you stand
there in complete darkness, a very heavy block of
stone drops down on top of you. Throw three dice
and add up the result. If the number is greater than
your STAMINA score, then you are badly hurt
(deduct 3 STAMINA points), If the number is less
than, or equal to, your STAMINA soore, then you
have the strength to catch the stone and squeeze
yourself back out of the door before letting go. Turn

to 207.
126-127

126

You say nothing. The woman gets up, her eyes
open wider and you can see that they are bright red.
She raises her hands and claws slowly appear,
pushing apart the old flesh- She hisses and spits out
sn order. Suddenly Ores appear and grovel in front
of her. ‘Put a collar on this one. Then I will know if
this is the Toplander HE wants." You realize that
she is one of the Seven Khuddam of Orghuz. As you
2re pulled out she kicks at a rock and it shatters!

Three Orcs take you to a stone hut. Inside is a
Slecksmith: a foplander wearing a metal collar. He
is beating outa similar collar, and by his side stands
2 Goblin with a wand. The Orcs tell the smith to
prepare a collar. He turns around and you recognize
him as the long-lost Azleff: the greatest knight of the
Grey Order! You remember serving him at the Great
table many times. As you stare, Tabasha crawls out
of your pocket and up to your shoulder; the Ores are
mildly amused by her as she stands there, staring at
Azleff’s eyes. Suddenly Azletf hits the Goblin with
the hammer and ijn one swift movement cuts your
Sends; then he sinks to the ground clutching his
collar. You take advantage of the Ores’ surprise and
rush out of the hut. Do vou go left (turn to 167), right
turn to 268), or straight ahead (turn to 312}?

127

You try to hide, but the Khuddam steps out and
smells you straight away. It hisses and spits as tt
pulls oul a scimitar and attacks. If you have a
Feelbrethren Ring you may use it now; you will not
228

be hurt because the Khuddam will not sense you

and you may strike at will.

KHUDDAM SKILL 10 STAMINA 12
GRIFFKEK

lf you win, cross the dead Khuddam off the Adven-
ture Sheet. You escape into the dark. Turn to 298-

You have a good sleep that is marred only by =
nightmare of a Long-fanged Ghoul holding a dagger
over your face. You wake, open your eyes, and see 2
dagger pointing at your nose, held by a hideous
Long-fanged Ghoul. You instantly will Tabasha the
Bazouk to help (mark 1 use on the Adventure Sheet. If
you have used up your nine, you are stabbed and
your mission is over.) She sinks her claws into the
Ghoul’s hands, giving you time to pull out your
Sword.

LONG-FANGED
GHOUL

Lf you win, you carry on along the corridor. Tum
to 179.

SKILLS& STAMINA 7

129-131

129
You reach out and pull him up. The Dark Elf does

not notice you, but stops and shuts his eves. All the
Dwarfs and Orcs stand stock-still. Suddenly you are
stabbed in the back: the Dwarf you helped has
stolen your dagger, and as you turn around you see
him standing there with a glazed look in his eyes.
Deduct 4 STAMINA points. He then strides back to
the others and they all march off. After a while, you
tke the same tunnel. Turn to 203.

130
You can see nothing. You hold your Sword in
readiness as you hear the sound of what you guess
San axe cutting through the air- If you know haw to
Sensefight, fight as normal; if not, then reduce your
SKILL (for this combat only) by 2-

DARK AXEMAN SKILL 7 STAMINA 8

When either your or your opponent's sTAMINA
reaches 4, the combat stops. You are both exhausted
and your opponent has had time to pick up your
scent. Turn to 63.

131

You stand by the trapdoor as it bursts open; in
comes 2 Stone Warrior, followed by Orcs, who fire
the occasional arrow,

STONE WARRIOR

i you win, Aspra Smoothcheek calls you over to the
door, and you all charge out. Turn to 375.

SKILL & STAMINA 8
132-133

132
You walk into ihe room to see a jewel-encrusted
shield, You walk around the room. There are no
signs of traps or other creatures, so you grab the
shield with both hands. The jewels explode.
smashing slithers of poisoned crystal into your
body. Your adventure is over.

133

You climb up the spiral shafts until you come to 2
chamber, hacked out of wood. Along the walls
stand figures made of wood; each one holds 2
sword, As you watch, one of the figures slowly
turns into flesh and moves in front of you, sword at
the ready. You hear a creaking, rumbling voice
‘Intruder, you will die!’

WOODMAN

If you win, the figure collapses and before youreyes
the wounds begin to heal up as the body turns to
wood again. Turn to 81.

SKILL 6 STAMINAS

2345235

134
you have not yet seen it, there isa huge wall ahead
of you. [fis very high, and protected by watch-
Sowers at intervals of 200 paces. You feel safe in the
mist but wonder how you are going to get over ihe
wall. Suddenly you come across a flat, polished,
inscribed stone, marking out the Xokusai Ore de-

fensive segments of the wall: ARROW, AXE,
DAGGER, SWORD. It seems you are in ihe Axe
sector. Do you wish to climb the wail here (tum
00 315), at the Dagger sector (turn t 154}, the Sword
sector (turn to 18}, orthe Arrow sector (turn tv 111)?

135
tou walk along the tunnel fora long time, Suddenly
you kick something that makes a metallic noise. The
Shining Sword helps you find the object: a metal
collar with strange runes inscribed on it. Itis hinged
and open. Do you try it on (turn to 221), or inspect it
further (turn to 193)?

=
—
eu -*
= > —— Se
— s-—_— ee Ae
a es —_— i
—_—— as
136-138

136
You set off on the right-hand track. As you walk
along you sce a lot of evidence of digging and
mining. Suddenly you see a Goblin get out of a hole
and stand with his back te you, waving a wand. Do
you choose to attack (turn to 226}, jump left (tum
to 384}, or jump to the right (turn to 121}?

137

You fear leaving the path, and so stand still, Sword
at the ready. The two figures suddenly stop and
sniff at you, They are Marsh Goblins with huge, flat,
webbed feet. They pull out small, curved dagyers
and look at you suspiciously; one of them hisses
‘Toplander’. The other shouts: ‘What are vou doing
here? You should be with the others. Give me that
Sword!’ Da you hand it over (furn to 26) or attack
{turn to 183}?

135
You can hear the drum and the chanting as you edge
along the small ledge. Suddenly you notice that the
ledge divides into two. Which one do you take: the
one sloping down to the left (furn to 287), or the one
going down to the right (turn io 346)?

139-140

139

You run out of the hutand down into the dark alley.
You find some steps and climb up. As you turn
zround you see two Orrs following you, Fight each
in tum.

SKILL STAMINA
First XOKUSAT ORC F §
Second XOKUSAI ORC § 6

if you win, you stand on the wall and look oul over
the moat; you think that you can leap safely across.
Throw two dice: thisis the distance. [f the distance is
greater than your STAMINA, then you fail and are
dragged down into the murky depths by flesh-
eating fish. If your sTAMINA is equal to, or greater
than, the distance, tum to 301.

140

Tum fo 38.

————

141-142

141
You crawl into the hole and edge along in the dark
until you come to a small tunnel, heading down.
Suddenly you begin to slip and fall head first into 2
flooded tunnel. It is too narrow to turn around, so
you must work your way through as fast as possible
to find some air. You notice that Tabasha is not
struggling but scems to have found a small air
pocket in your cloak. Test your Luck. If you are
Unlucky, you haven't enough air in your lungs to
make it. Your quest ends here. If you are Lucky,
then the tunnel opens out and you rise up to take a
breath of damp air. However, you have lostall your
Provisions. Turn to 296.

You haul yourself on to a wide ledge and, without
your Sword, you are confronted by two spear-
carrying Orcs. You must fight cach in turn, un-
armed. Reduce your sx1L1 (for this combat only) by
2 potnis.

SKILL STAMINA
First ORC 6 5
Second CRC 7 6

If you survive, you have time to recover your Sword
and you head back along the ledge. Suddenly you
hear a noise. Turn to 379.

143-144

143
You are in a room full of dust and cobwebs. In each
corner of the room are unlit torches and some
rotting leather armour is piled in a heap. On the
dusty floor you see small footprints leading from an
exit north to an exit south. There are four exits in
the room; which do you choose:

North? Turn to 239
South? Turn tog
East? Turn to 391
West? Turn to 273

144
The tunnel is long and straight, sloping gently
downwards. Suddenly you hear screams and
shouts echoing in the distance.

As you get nearer to the screaming the tunnel
divides. Above each new tunnel there are some
symbols. The tunnel on the left is engraved:

uoo

The funnel on the right is engraved:

~-U 000
occa ooo
--O o00

Which do you choose to enter: left (turn to 317) or
tight (furn to 201}? You also see a small, dark
entrance to a cave (turn to 99g).
——————_- Ye e=_

145-147

5
As you walk by the river, the path gets narrower

and you have to wade in the water. Your feet begin
to get numb. Across the river, by the light of the
Sword, you can seea crackin the walland you know
that you must wade across. You plunge into the
freezing water and Tabasha jumps up on to your
head. ‘The water reaches your waist, but when you
get to the other side you can hardly move your legs.
Ifyou have any Fuel you can use it now, to warm up;
deduct 1 point from the Fuel box. Otherwise deduc
4 STAMINA points. [urn to 253.

146

Cautiously, you make your way along the ledge
You can hear a scrabbling behind you and suddenly
you see an Ore, sword in hand, edging towards
you. There is no room for full combat; fight One
Strike.

If you win, vou find a ledge leading down to the left
(turn lo 361), a ledge leading down to the right (turn
to 44), and the possibility of dropping down to é
slightly wider ledge below (turn io 217).

147
Before he can unload his goods, you send him

packing. He shouts that you'll regret it, grabs your

148-149

Sword and disappears from sight. Instinctively, you
can feel the pull of the Sword and, as you try to find
him again, he stabs you in the back with a dagger.
the wound is not fatal. Deduct 1 skti. point and 2
STAMINA points. Your Sword rises up to your
hand. You find no trace of Pierskat the Trader.
Suddenly you feel in your backpack and discover
that he has stolen all your Fuel and Provisions. De-
duct these from your Adventure Sheet. Turn to 369.

148
Turn to 206.

; 149
You walk fora long time ina dusty lunnel, until you

come to a stairway leading up. As you are about to
tread on the first step, 2 small furry creature runs
across your path. Suddenly a trap springs shut and
ctushes the poor animal. You look carefully at the
steps; they all seem likely to contain traps. As you
look around, you see a dirty receptacle with four
stone balls in it: You pick one up and prepare to
throw it to spring the trap on a particular step.

There are twenty-four steps. Throw a die to show
where the first ball lands; throw two dice ta show
where the second ball lands; throw three dice to
show where the third ball lands; then four dice. The
turthest you can leap is six steps, Work out if you
can make it to the top without touching an un-
safe step. if you have to spring a trap, deduct 2
STAMINA points for each. You reach the top anda
door slams shut behind you, then disappears. Turn
tO 100.
150-151

150

You call out to the Trogs and tell them that all you
want is to know the way out, and that you are not
interested in their chest. Eventuaily they sidle out -
Wart followed by Jow] — both clutching short, stab-
bing swords. They sniffat you and are startled to see
Tabasha poking her head out of your pocket. You
haul the heavy chest into the tunnel, and then Wart
goes in and cuts at something. You climb im, fol-
lowed by Jowl. The tunnel is low and wide; you
have to bend over while the Trogs walk in front of
you, holding the chest. You turn round to check
how far you've come; then you hear a laugh, and
turn back to find no trace of the Trogs. You examine
the dark recesses ahead and find four other tunnels.
Which do you follow:

Tirst? Turn to 33
Second? Tum to 393
Third? Turn to 77
Fourth? Tum to230

151

Yau carry on by the side of the river. Tabasha jumps
off your shoulder and disappears in the dark. She
returns with two stranve white crabs and eats one in
front of you. You eat the other: it tastes delicious.
Addi stamina pot. Suddenly the path ends and
leads into.a small tunnel. You notice a large bell. Itis
covered in strange, incomprehensible symbols. You
know that it must serve a purpose. Do you choose to
ring the bell (turn to 359) or go into the tunnel (turn

to 249)?

152-153

152

You lose the others and rush around the back of
some stone huts; there is a high wall that surrounds
the whole camp and itis heavily guarded. Just then,
you see a figure approaching out of the darkness
ahead. Do you run into a doorway on the left (turn
to 274) or carry on {turn to 366)?

153
You put on the ring and begin to feel dizzy, as
though your mind is detached from your body.
There is 2 pounding chant in your brain: ‘Dhaktili,

Dhaktili. . ” In your mind’s eye you see indescrib-
able horrors. You must try to take the ring off.
Throw two dice for the strength needed to tug the
nng off your finger. If this throw is greater than your
STAMINA, you have lost your mind and will
be found by some other unfortunate, reduced
to a heap, in a dusty corridor. If, however, your
STAMINA is greater than, or equal to, the power
of the ring, then you pull it off, drop it straight
away, and carry on ‘quickly down the corridor. Turn
to22.
154-156

154
You find a breach in the wall, but are cautious when
you see two Stone Guardians placed on either side
of it. Looking carefully, you see that one of them is
cracked down the middle and falling apart. The
other creaks to life and attacks you with its strong
beak.

STONE GUARDIAN SKILLZ STAMINA 10

If you win, you pass through the breach. Turn
to go.

155
You walk on, gripping the Sword tight. You come to
the Iron Cave but, unexpectedly, there are two new
doors. Do you go through the left one (turn to 199)
or choose the one on the night (turn to 214)?

156
You come to 2 break in the ledye. You will have to
jump across. Throw three dice to determine the
distance. lf your STAMINA is equal to, or greater
than, the distance, you have managed to jump
across. If not, then you have fallen to your death.

Once on the other side, you have the choice of
taking a gentle sloping ledge to the right (turn to
379) or dropping down on to a slightly wider ledyve
belowy (turn to 291).
157-158

157
You help him get to his feet, He looks at youand you
realize that he is a Troll, rather the worse for drink.
He shouts at you: Tiow dare you touch me, you
scum. Kneel down and have your head chopped
off." He pulls outa scimitar and takes a swing at you.

DRUNKEN TROLL SKILL 6

If you win, you hide the body and go into the
Dragon's Breath Inn (turn to 381).

158
The diversionary force rides out and the gates are
swiftly shut. You can hear many screams and
shouts. Occasionally a torrent of arrows lands m the
compound and everybody scatters for shelter.
Eventually Khazara orders the gates to open and
you all charge out ~ right into the enemy Hank. You
hack your way through the Orcs. Fight four in turn.

STAMINA 5

SKILL STAMINA
First ORC 5 4
Second ORC 6 6
Third ORC 7 6
Fourth ORC 4 5

If you survive, the Orcs are cut down and many lose
heart and flee, The day is won for the Feelbrethren.
Khazara thanks you for your heip, but knows that
you cannot waste any time away from your quest.
You are taken to the end of the cavern and shown 2
tunnel. You walk along it fora long time, ignoring 4
smaller tunnel on the Ieft. Eventually, you stop in
front of a pile of rubble: the tunnel has collapsed!
Turn to 178.

159-160

159

You slip into a doorway. Immediately vou can smell
the stench of Orc-cooking, coming from close by.
Peeking through the door, you see a bubbling caul-
dron of green slime and, stirring it, a small aproned
Orc. Occasionally he picks up some rotting meat
from the filthy floor and throws it in the cauldron.
the cook leaves by anather door. As you look
around the doorway you find a small window. Do
you choose to go into the kitchen (turn to 324) or
crawl through the window (turn to 143)?

160
You have chasen the wrong knight. Before anyone
has a chance to stop him, the real traitor has moved
behind you and plunged a dagger into your back.
You have thwarted an ambitious and desperate
person who wants his revenge at any cost. And he

161—162

161

You leap over the ditch and land among the rocks.
Arrows slam into the ground all around you. Test
your Luck. 1f you are Unlucky, one of the arrows
wounds you (deduct 2 sTaMINA points). If you are
Lucky, they all miss.

You are pursued by the renegades; they min fast—
silent and disciplined — waiting for you to Lire.
Suddenly Tabasha jumps out of your pocket and
crawls into a hole by a slab of rock. At first you begin
to curse her for deserting you, but then you realize
that you can lift the slab. You quickly do so and find
a Jatge hole. Crawling in and pulling the slab over
you, you watch your pursuers pass. After a lone
time, you get out, with Tabasha back in your pocket
In front of you is a path. Turn to 369.

162
As you walk into the room, two Dark Elves grab you
from either side and a knight slips a metal collar on
your neck, You hear the booming lhughter of
Orghuz and see his bright red eyes as he orders you
to kneel in front of his ficutenants. One of the Dark
Elves gets ready toswing asword - - -

163

163

You have made it through the Devil's Teeth. But
soon you realize that the boat's midder is broken.
You come out into a huge cavern lake, and the boat
has to be left to wander. The two Dwarfs have
finally stopped fighting and begin to tell you their
tale. They were captured and sent to work as slaves
in the mines for the Khuddam. ‘he iron is needed
for the metal collars that Orghuz uses to enslave the
people in the Chasms, and Dwarfs are useful to him
for their skill and knowledge of mining and iron-
working. Suddenly the boat comes to a halt and you
stand up and look around, The shore is pitch-black;
you all stumble out of the boat. When your Sword
begins to shine it reveals a tall warrior, standing in
front of you. The helm covers all of the face, with no
slits for the eyes. Do you attack (turn ty 305), or wail
to see who the warrior is (turn lo 285)?

164

Mark the use of ‘labasha on your Adcenture Sheet.
She leaps down from your shoulders and rubs
herself up against the Pirate as he sets his craft into
the middle of the river. He notices the cat, picks it
up, strokes it and looks into its eyes. Tabasha’s eyes
widen and suddenly the Pirate stands stock-still.
He then walks back and, after releasing you all, col-
lapses. The Dwarfs are happy to be released, but
then begin to argue about whose fault it was that
they got captured. You go to the front of the boat
and see two levers, which you think must control
movement — left and riysht. As you stand there you
notice that up ahead the river splits into two. You
will have to decide which direction to take. Do you
pull the left lever (turn to 262), or the one on the
right (turn to 345)?

165-167

165

You close the metal collar around your neck and,
immmediately, you can see nothing but hwo red eyes,
and you hear a drumming in your brain that slowly
becomes distinct words: ‘There you are, blood heir
to Tancred. I’ve been waiting for you. Come to me
and meet your master.” You cannot escape the
strength of the collar. Your quest is over.

166
Turn to 206.

167
You run into a squad of Ore crosshowmen, They
aim and fire. Test your Luck. Ifyou are Unlucky, you
are killed by a bolt in the throat. If you are Lucky,
they all miss and you run back the way you came.
Do you go straight on (turn to 268), or prefer to go
left (turn to 312)?

168-170

168

You walk into a dimly lit cave, You can see a mist
lying knee-deep and, as you wade through it,
Wil —— strange, translucent hands with claws appear. They
, wy seratch at your legs. Iwo Spectres then appear and
ay hang in the air, stabbing skeletal claws at vou. You
\ cannot pull out your Sword. Deduct 2 sramina

points. You find exits south-east (turn to 89) and

cust (furn fo 45).

ie
i'l
Aue

169
Tabasha eats the squirmy thing herself. Deduct
1 STAMINA point for your hunger. She licks her
whiskers and jumps back on to your shoulder. Turn

to 247,

170
You walk into the roam and the door snaps shut
behind you. There is no handle on the inside. In
the middle of the room is a fire in a large iron grate,
from which sparks shoot out. Suddenly the blaze
flares up and destroys everything in the room,
meluding you.

171-173

NI -
<, —— ~
“5 ny a - - _4 =, =

= ee
——_ —_—— TF

ee! ae

a7t
You climb into the smelly hole and the entrance
snaps shut behind you. By the glow of your Sword
you see large fangs all around. You realize that you
are in the mouth of a huge beast. You are crushed
and swallowed by the Hydra in the Volcano.

172
test your Luck. If you are Unlucky, you are spotted
and wounded by an Orc with a crossbow (deduct 2
STAMINA points). If you are Lucky, you pass
through like a shadow, Turn to 159.

173

You step inside and the door shuts firmly behind
you, Add 2 tuck points. Suddenly you hear a voice
in the dark: You seek the Meartflame, brave adven-
turer. BEWARE! Many have eniered but few have
left Minosaddurr,’ A wisp of green smoke leads you
on and you follow. “Seek the Flame that cannot be
seen, enter and experience the many caves again
and again.” The smoke dissipates and you are in
complete darkness. The Sword will not shine and
Tabasha is cowering in your pocket. You stretch
your hands out and walk into the darkness. Turn
to 2.

174

174

You fall down into a larger hole. It is completely
dark and the Sword will not shine. Just then you
hear a hiss, a sniff, a slithering movement, and
something like the licking of lips. There is a moye-
ment towards you and you prepare ta fight. If you
can Sensefight, then combat it as normal. If you do
not have the ability of the Feelbrethren, then reduce
your SKILL (for this combat only} by 2, and restore it
if you win.

DARK MONSTER SKILL 8

{if vou survive, turn to 378-

STAMINA 10

175-177

173
You run fast, weaving from left to right, but you are
hit in the thigh by an arrow. Your leg stops moving
and you tumble over. Deduct 2 STAMINA points.
Turn to 352.

176
You throw a large rock at the Goblin above you. It
hits him on the head and he collapses. The second
Goblin sees you, but one of the Gaddon grabs his
arm before he can wave the wand. The Goblin pulls
outa sword and stabs at him but, as you get nearer,
has no time to use the wand-

MINE GOBLIN

If you survive, you set all the Gaddon free and one
of them tells you that she has seen a break in
Orghuz's defensive wall but cannot give you exact
directions. You carry on along the track and after a
while it divides, Do you wish to go to the night (tum
to 82) or forward (turn to 25)?

$x111.6 STAMINAG

177

Turn to 172.

178-179

178

The rubble leads to a hole above the tunnel. Do you
go mto the hole (turn to 332) or back to the small
tunnel you saw earlier (turn to 232)?

179

You walk along the coridorand enter what must be
the main hall of the castle. It is spotless and welll lit.
in the middle of the flooris a diamond that sparkles
and shines. On the other side of the room is a long
table, seemingly full of food. You walk up to the
diamond and pick it up. Suddenly it turns to dustin
your hands; the hall becomes dirty, grubby and
dusty, Looking at the table you see a crowd of
Ghouls, varying in looks from the hideous to the
hornble. They scramble towards you. There are tov
many of them to fight. If you know the Spell for
Casting into the Bottomless Pit, use it now. Add up
all the numbers mentioned in the spell and go to
that section. You will be told immediately that the
spell works. If you do not know the spell, you must
run to the safety of the next corridor, without being
touched by a single Ghoul. You will need a great
deal of 1. uck. Test your Luck twice. Ifyou are Lucky
both times, you reach the corridor and the Ghouls
disappear (turn to 207). If you are Unlucky either
ime, you are killed. Your quest is over.
180

180

You are in another room. In the corner stands 2
figure wearing a black cloak. You grasp your Sword
firmly and approach the figure, fearing the worst
But the figure does nat move, When you get close
enough you find that it is made of some powdery
substance. It changes as you watch it and begins to
resemble a Khuddam. You guess that the power
of the Shield is waning and that the Seven Fell
Servants of Orghuz are beginning to multiply. You
know that you must hurry. You find a door heading
south (turn to 314} and a door west {turn to 325).
Which do you choose?

181

181

You hand over the gauntlets and he eagerly gives
you the ring. He then packs up and trundles off,
singing a familiar ballad. You look at the ring. Ina
small panel on the inner surface you see:

Oo

-00

lt you know the Cypher, speak it now and go to thal
section. [f you do not, nothing happens, and you
put the ning away. Mark it under Abilities on your
Adventure Sheet. Turn to 369.

182-184

182

You run up the steps, go through a metal door, and
close it behind you. Just then you hear deep
breathing and hissing: Tancted’ssss blood heir. , -
ssssss.’ You are face to face with a Khuddam. ‘Tam
Barkek Khuddam. My master waits for you ...
sssssss.° He approaches; you can see the blood
dripping from his long thin fangs. He maves his
black cloak aside and pulls out a jagged-edged
sword, full of treacherous rip-hooks,

KHUDDAM BARKEK SKILL10 STAMINA 12

If you win, the Khuddam disappears, leaving only
his black cloak. Cross the Khuddam from the list
on the Adventure Sheet.

As you stand and stare at the empty cloak, a group
of Ores rush in and hit you over the head. Turn

to 64.

183
mS see that you do not intend ta give up your
ward, so they pull out their long scimitars and rush
t you, licking their warty lips, Fight each tn turn.

SKILL STAMINA
First MARSH GOBLIN 6 7
Second MARSH GOBLIN 6 6

If you win, turn to 298.
184

Not having the skill of Dwarfish fishing, and before
Aspra can warm you about the fish, you plunge your
185-186

hands into the water. Test your Luck. If you are
Unlucky, you get a thumb bitten off by the fish.
Deduct 2 SKILL points and 2 staMINA points. If
you are Lucky, you get a little finger bitten off.
Deduct 1 SKILL point. After screaming for a while,
you settle down and let Aspra tend to your wound.
Turn to 65.

185
The taste is revolting. It makes you feel very ill and
you sitin a comer trying to recover (deduct 1 sxitt
point). Turn to 354- .

186

You quickly put on the armour and nish out of the
hut. The Orc commander begins to curse you for
laziness and then goes on to abuse whoever had
the idea of having Toplander squads in Xokusai
regiments. You are told to get in Ime and you join a
gToup behind the cart. The pace is fast; everybody
trols along and occasionally the commander turns
round to swear at somebody. Eventually you reach
an Orc army camp and you are told to line up ina
row at the top of a high wall. Below is a moat full of
creatures that snap, swirl and thrash about in the
murky water. Choose a position in the line by
throwing either one die ar two dice (1 to 12).

‘Discipline makes Xokusai soldiers the élite! Be
proud to die, you filth,’ screams the commander as
he walks along and pushes the third, sixth, ninth,
and twelfth into the moat. If one of these is your
position, your quest is over. If you survive, tum
to 28.

187

187

You find yourself walking along a tunnel that has
iron bars on either side, and unrecognizable shapes
inside the cages. Suddenly one of the shapes
crashes against the bars, and you see a hideously
deformed face beneath a torn cloak. The creature
could once have been a Dwarf but is now very thin
and wears a metal collar. Just then more Dwarfs
appear and stretch out to grab you. They have no
weapons, but all seem to have long, sharp finger-
nails. You rush through the clutching, scratching
hands. Test your Luck. If you are Unlucky, you have
been badly cut. Deduct 2 sTAMINA points. If you
are Lucky, you make it past the cages with a few
small scratches. You carry on as the poor creatures
scream and wail behind you, and eventually come
to a steep slope. Turn to 302.

PDI
~ =
SERS a

el —— os
PY = ---

—"—
188-189

188
You are in a cave that oozes a smelly, sticky subsi-
ance. It gets all over your hands, You lock around
and find a rough-hewn stone stairway up to =
trapdoor (turn to 39), and four other exits. Which do
you choose:

West? Turn to21
South-west? Turn to 200
South-east? Tum to27
East? Turn to 307

‘The cave is smalland narrow. When you runin, you
are greeted by an angry growl, and look around to
see 2 small, scaly creature attaching itself to your
leg. It feels as though it is sucking your blood. You
try to prise it off with your Sword, but its scales are
too hard io cut. You can do nothing (deduct 2
STAMINA points). Eventually it drops off, curls up
into a ball and rolls away into a small hole. You look
outside and find that a thick mist has descended.
Tum to 92.

|
|
|
|

190

‘The Crystal is very powerful. [t will bring complete
darkness to this land and confluse our enemies, wha
still need sight and light. We are masters of the dark
and will escape. But the spell is danyerous; one or
two may dic in its casting.” The group formsa circle.
A small Crystal is put into the middle, anda strange
chanting begins among the warriors. Sudd enly
there isa flash from the Crystal and one of the group
is struck. She collapses and disappears, but the
chanting continues. Throw a die: this is your posi-
tion in the group. Throw a second die: this is where
the next strike hits. If the twa numbers match, you
have been fatally wounded and you take no more
interest in the quest,

Suddeniy there is darkness — darker than any dark-
ness you have ever experienced. A hand grabs you
and you are fed away at a fast trot in complete
silence. Just then you hear a hissing and sniffing
sound and the warrior leading you stops. You both
hear a third person: “You think you can escape me
by your puny spells. I can see you’ The warrior
who had been leading you speaks, and you realize
that it is Alkis Fearslicer: ‘Khuddam! I will hold hin
off _. . RUN!’ Do you run (tum to 377}, or try to
help fight a Khuddam in the dark (turn to 208)?
191-193

191
You are very wise to run, Earthshakers cannot be
killed, You run very fast and eventually stop for 2
rest. Tabasha goes out foraging and comes back
with some hideous-looking purple slugs that slither
around in a green slime. She eats one, then looks at
you. Do you eat the other {turn to 6), or refuse the
offer {turn to 272)?

192
You jump on to the cart as Aspra leaps at the
wounded Dark Elf. The others attack the Orcs. The
Koyunlu gallop off and the other Elf swings st you
with a two-headed axe. Test your Lick. LE you are
Unlucky, he hits you and you die. If you are Lucky,
he misses, and falls off the cart an top of his own
axe, You drive the cart back to the vthers, who take
alj the foad and weapons they can carry, and quick-
ly climb back out of the road. You make vour way
back to camp. Turn to 124-

193
As you are inspecting the collar, you hear shouting
and cursing. Soon you see torches in the distance.
You stand in a defensive niche, so that vou can be
attacked by only one opponentat a time. Three Orcs
see you, pull out their evil curved swords and attack
without hesitation.

SKILL STAMINA
First ORC 6 5
second ORC 7 6

lf you win, the third Ore grabs the collar and

|

194-195

runs away. You carry on in the direction you were

travelling. Turn to 249.

194
You feel around the cave, and discover a large stone
statue, holding a sword. It is cold to the touch, You
now have a choice of three exits:

South-west Turn to 359
North-west Turn to 334
North-east Turn to 246

195

You are on a wider ledge but see no way to pct
further down. An Orc finds you and you take him
on in One-Strike Combat. If you win, you discover
three ropes hanging down the smooth precipice
into the darkness. Another Orc appears. If you win
this One-Strike Combat, do you choose to go down
the rope on the left (furn to 231), the rope on the
nght (turn to 58), or do you think the rope in the
middle would be the correct choice (turn ta 93)?

196—197

196

The room is pitch-black. Slowly, you begin to dis-
cern the sparkle of glass. It gets brighter and
brighter until the room is full of mirrors. One of the
mirrors shivers and there stands the Dark Lord
Orghuz, in his diamond and glass armour. Strange
beams come out of his eyes, Then you see two other
figures of Orghuz. They all laugh at you, and arro-
gantly dare you to strike out with the Sword. Where
do you strike? On the left-hand figure (turn to 35),
the figure on the right (turn to 386), or the figure in
the centre (turn to 62)?

197
The rocky spike drops into your back and you
collapse on the stairs. You cannot move and your
quest is over.
198

198
You walk along the well-lit corndor until you come
to a metal door marked:

0250
nan
050

Do you open it {turn to 15), or carry on along the

corridor (turn to 289)?

199-200

199

You push the door open and find yourself in a large
iron-lined cave. Large books are stacked all around,
and in the corner, sitting by a coal fire, is an old
Gaddon man. 4 book is open on his knees and he is
looking straight ahead feeling the pages with fat,
sensitive fingertips. He knows you are there: ‘Come
in, Toplander. Ah, you carry the smell of the cool
breeze. | have been expecting you for a long ime-’
The old man does not explain his remark. Tabasha
jumps down on to his lap and begins to purr. In the
silence you are sure that the old man is also purring.
Suddenly, you see a dagger flying towards you and
before you know it the Sword in your hand has leapt
up and diverted the point away from you, Turn
to 294.

!
|
|

200
You gre in an empty cave. Beneath vour feet you
find a metal trapdoor. Do you go throujsh this (turn
to 61)? Or do you choose one of four other exits:

North-west? Turn to 24
North-east? Tum to 188
South-east? Turn to 246

South-west? ‘Turn to 334
G
5

/
‘
oS
A
“Ss
4
. <
»

Se as > se
Se Ses
1 SSS - 1
- nas ot = 2

Poh be be bk!

LA.

201-202

201
Inside the funnel you hear a drayying, hissing,
sniffling sound. You stop, crouch down, and see a
scaly hzard-hke creature dragging a dead Orc along
the pround. Itsees you, dropsits burden and rushes
at you with its long spiky tail swishing from side to
side.

TAILSPIKER SKILL 7 STAMINA 10

[f you win, turn tos.

202

You leap the three steps and she fires. ‘he arrow
grazes your shoulder. You collapse under the in-
fluence ofa mild poison. Deduct 3 STAMINA points.
She walks over and searches you. She takes
your Provisions (deduct all Provisions from your
Adventure Sheet} and any rings or gold that you may
be carrving. She then kicks you and disappears.
Tabasha sits by your shoulder and licks your
wound. You lose consciousness, but, at one point,
you see a group of Orcs and feel yourself being lifted
up. Turn to 64.

203-204

203
After along walk you stop fora restata comfortable
looking tock.

You are now embarking on the most dangerous
phase of your quest. Check your Adventure Sheet for
LUCK, SKILL, STAMINA and Provisions. Check
your Abilities and any special knowledge gleaned
so far,

You stab the Sword into the ground, and you see 4
wisp of blue smoke swirl out of the hilt until it
becomes the face of a Warmior Knight. The face looks
at you and begins to speak: “You are my heir
and have proved yourself fit to carry my Sword.
BEWARE, now that you are close fo the evil of
Orghuz. Iwill grant you the Spell of Life; use it once,
when you are in the greatest need,” The image fades
and asmall parchment flutters to your feet. You pick
it up. It is covered in antique runes that have no
meaning for you. Mark the spell on your Adventure
Sheet. Use it once only, if your stamina has been
reduced to zero in any combat. In such a case
you may carry on as though you have won the
fight, with a STAMINA score of 4. Do not use it
unwisely, for it is a strong spell and you will have
to reduce your SKILL by i after using it. Tum to
310.

204
You land on the ledge with great ease but, it does
not hold your weight. It collapses and drops you
on to a lower ledge. You are hurt, Gut not badly-
Deduct 2 STAMINA points. Turn to 217.

205-206

205

The door closes behind you. In the middle of the
room are a series of Crystals, emitting a purple
glow. Above them is a legend in vulgar runewrite:
‘Count the Crystals for life." There are thirty-three of
them. Add 2 Luck points. You find three possible
exits. Which do you take:

South-vast? Turn to 277
North-west? Turn to 16
North-east? Turn to 264

206
You step on the rock. It flips over and throws
you into the deadly moat. You have no chance of
survival.

207-208

207,
You walk down the corridor and, as you tum 2

corner, you see two small Trogs trying to lift a heavy
chest into a newly dug hole in the wall. They cannot
teach high enough and are getting very cross with
each other. ‘Wart, you scum, push it higher!’ The
other replies: Tf you did your fair share, Jowl, we
would have finished this long ago.’ Suddenly they
see you, drop the chest, and run for cover behind
some pillars. Do you choose to open the chest (tum
to 333), help the Trogs (turn to 159), or go into the
tunnel with the chest (turn to 275)?

‘l see you, miserable intruder - . -" You feel a stab-
bing pain in your arm (deduct 2 STAMINA points)-
You are then pushed aside by friendly hands and
you change your mind about staying to fight. Tum

tO 377.

209

209

You rush along the path, past an entrance to a hut.
Someone is about to step out, so vou stop and hide
behind a pillar. You hear a voice: ‘If it’s who [think it
is, I've been spotted; I want the intruder killed at
once.” There is a hiss in reply. Then: ‘We will catch
the blood heir. . . sssss- Do not svorry; Toplanders,
like yourself, have a very distinct smell...’ Then
you hear sniffing. Do you stay where vou are (turn
to 127), or choose to run past the hut entrance (turn
to 269)?

210-212

210
You walk up the steps to a daor in what looks like a
castle wall. Suddentv the door swings open and a
coarse voice calls out: “There, there is the wanted
one!’ It is a Khuddam. She wears a black cloak
and carries a two-headed axe. You are suddenly
attacked by Orcs, Trolls, Goblins and other un-
speakable cronies. Your quest is over.

211
As you stride between the ruts, Tabasha jumps off
your shoulder and darts intea crackin the wall. You
stop, and hear a squeak and a scrabbling, until she
emerges with a fat, furry worm between her teeth.
She deposits it at your feet and obviously wants you
to eat it. You do feel hungry. Do you eat it (turn to
37), or do you think that you will be better off
without it (turn tu 169)?

212

You walk through the open door. Turn to 326.

aes
SS ma i f xt : au “i

_————

MGs sn “ty

ra am i Ni
: WaT bia oie ah

213-216

213
He lays out all his exotic wares; he has everything,
even truffles from Gorak. You see a small tamished
ring and ask him what il is. He tells vou it is a
Gaddon ring, with one of their strange inscriptions
on it. “Yours for .. . your gauntlets,” he says. Do
you accept the ode {turn to 181), or refuse {tum
to 358)?

214

The door opens easily and shuts behind you. You
ate in a Square space in front of another ‘door. As
you grip the handle of the second door, a large tron
slab falls down and crushes you-

215

You grab the rope and climb down, hand over hand.
There are few footholds and your arms get very
tired. Deduct 1 STAMINA point. Suddenly you feela
draught and see a hole on the left, anda similar hole
on the right. You think that you can swing to either
side, Which do you choose: the hole on the left (furn
to 174), or the one on the right (turn to 373)?

216
You can hear dog-like noises in the echoing funnel,
accompanied by gruff cammands from coarse
voiced Trolls. Just then you find a thin crack in the
tunnel wall. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, you
just manage to squeeze through imto another
tunnel. If you are Unlucky, you get stuck in the
crack and are bitten by a Hell Hound before squeez-
ing through (deduct 4 STAMINA points). Turn to

393-

217-218

217

You work your way along the ledge, trying not to
look down into the dark abyss, when suddenly you
hear a snarling and flapping of wings as a Gryphon
appears above you. It attacks you with its deadly
cdaws-

GRYPHION sxiii§$ STAMINA 10

if you survive, an Ore appears along the ledge and
you both swing at each other in One-Strike Combat.
lf Fou lose, you fall to your death. If you win, you
have a choice of three ledges to follow. Will you
choose the left (turn to 340), the right (turn to 156),
or the middle path (tum to 242)?

218
You are in another chamber. There is a hideous
smell of rotting flesh. Ahead are two more holes.
Will you goin the hole on the left (farn to 343}, or the
one on the right (turn to 71)?

219-221

219

You find yourself on a ledge. Suddenly you hear
sound and look up ta see a Tailspiker on the wall
above you. It swings its evil tail and you have to
fixht it with your Sword.
TAILSPIKER SKILL 7
If you survive, you make your way along the ledge
and enter another room through an air shaft. Turn

to 78.

STAMINA 10

220

You are on a ledge leading to the left. You can hear
the clamour of pursuit as the Orcs chase you with
great fanaticism. Suddenly you slip off the ledge.
The Sword falls out of your hand as you catch on to
the ledge with your fingertips. An Orc appears
below you and stabs you in the foot. Deduct 1
STAMINA point. Do you haul yourself back on to the
ledge above (turn to 142), or drop down on to the
lower ledge {turn to 293)?

221
As you snap the clip shut on the collar you see two
red eyes in your mind. You drop the Sword and
Tabasha jumps off your shoulder. in your mind you
hear an evil voice: “Who are you? You are not
Gaddon or Dwarf . - . ah, Toplander! You want the
Shield? Well, come and getit, blood heir of Tancred.
T want to see you - . . Stay there; my Servants are
coming tv guide you.’ You cannot move but know
that you must; the power of Orghuzis not as strong
here and you have a chance to resist his mind. Test
your Luck, If you are Lucky, you win the struggie

222-223

and manage to rip the collar off. Turn to 193. If you
ate Unlucky, you are found by four Orcs, who
immediately hit you over the head. They then pro-
ceed to squabble over who should have the collar
and the reward that gues with it. Turn to 123.

222

You are in a cave of noise: hideous, unbearable
screams. Deduct 1 STAMINA point. Quickly you
search around in the dark, and find four exits.
Which do you choose:

South-west? Turn to 355
West? Turn to 45
South-east? Turn t) 107
East? Turn to21

223

You walk along the side of the river. As you peer
into the water, you see some strange, blind fish
snapping at each other. The noise of the rushing
water is tremendous and you grip the Sword tight.
Suddenly, a scaly, green, webbed hand grabs your
foot. You swing your Sword and chop the hand off.
Then another hand appears and grabs the other:
foot, so you chop that off foc, But then tvo more
hands appear, followed by the creature, who
springs out of the water in front of you. it has four
other arms, is covered in scales, and has a single
tong horn on its temple, It attacks you.

KUTRIGUR

if you win, turn to 152-

SKILL 8 STAMINA 10
saw,

224-225

224
You are in a large kitchen, Two Orcs are shoving
disgusting pieces of meat into a large, black caul-
dron. A third Orc holds a dagger and is tasting the
stew. They do not notice you at first, but when they
do, they mish towards you with long carving knives
m their hands. One of the Ores slips on some meat
and knocks himself out on the stone floor. Fight

the other Gvo in turn.
SKILL STAMINA

CHEF ORC 6 6
APPRENTICE CHEF $ 4
ORC

ii you win, do you go over to the Gre who slipped on
the floor (turn to 19}, or leave the kitchen by an exit
to the north (tur to 337)?

225

When you whisper the name of Orghuz to her, she
shivers, and tells you to follow her upsiairs. She
enters a dimly lit room where sits another Gaddon.
she imtroduces him as Bosak, her father, and ex-
plains Four quest for the Shield. He sits in silence for
a while, blind eyes turned towards the floor. “You
are in great danger; the Dark Lord's strength
increases every day. His Khuddam now roam at will
through our old tunnels, chasms and crags. The
irom mines are being worked again by his slaves.
You will need Gaddon help: look to the Old Man in
the Iron Cave.’ Bosak gives you directions, and his
daughter brings you real food, ‘Not the muck we
teed thems downstairs.’ Add 2 STAMINA paints,
Turn to 69.
226-227

226

You run towards the Goblin. He hears you and
spins around, You are powerless as he weaves 4
spell with his wand. A blue ring encircles your
mouth and then begins to tighten its grip. Instinc-
tively you will Tabasha to help (mark 1 use on your
Adventure Sheet. lf you have used up your nine, then
your quest is over). She darts out and grabs the
wand in her mouth. The spell is broken and you
have time to pull out your Sword for combat.

GOBLIN

If you win, you look around and find some emaa-
ated Gaddon bodies near a mine shaft, but nothing
else. Turn te 259-

SKILIL5 STAMINA 6

227

Turn to 39.

228
‘Now you must try some exercises.” Menzik gives
you some other examples:

co “20
a 1S

is 257

He stands you in front of the dark door and you feel
the following pattern with your fingers:

You speak the Cypher ‘102’, and the door opens.
Turn to 102.

229-230

228)
You rush up the stairs. You run straight into a room
swhere there are two Trolls and an Ore. The Trolls
are breaking the Orc’s fingers. They notice you, le
go of the Orc, and attack. They think that you will be
better ‘entertainment’. Fight each in turn.

SKILL STAMINA
First SNAPSPINE
TROLL + 10
Second SNAPSPINE
TROLL 7 8

If you survive, add 1 LUCK point; you then heac
back down the corridor. Turn to 22-

230
The tunnel! gets bigger and bigger until you can
straighten up. Suddenly there is a deep rumbling
and the whole tunnel shakes. Bits of rocks break of
from the walls. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, ture
to 6o. If you are Unlucky, turn to 241.

a

|
|

231-232

231

You sheathe vour Sword and begin to climb dawn.
You cannot see anything below. Occasionally,
small, furtive creatures rush around the cliff face
and disappear into smail cracks. As vou descend,
“ne rope begins to shake. You look up and you can
just see an Ore chopping al it with an axe. You
plummet down the cliff. You land badly (deduct 5
STAMINA points). If you are still alive, add 3 LucK
pomts. You find yourself by an old road with deep
wheel ruts. Turn to 304.

232
tou find the tunnel and go in. You come to a stone
door with no handle and, as you fun your fingers
over the dust, you feel this pattern:

Pad
-_—~
2;
~?*

= you know the Secret Cypher, go to that number
tnd you will be told if the door opens. If you do not
snow the Cypher, you must go back and upinto the
mole. Turn to 331.
233-235

233
You get nearer and notice that they are small Trogs.
They have a cart harnessed to two Koyunln, anc
loaded with square blocks. They are busy cutting
out the blocks from a quarry. You hide your Sword
and offer to help them. At first they run away, but
soon come back when you start to haul the stone
blocks into the cart. You tell them that you are lost
and have got a message for Orghuz from his ser
yants in the Toplands. They are very simple folkana
accept your story without hesitation. They tell vou
that they are in the prowess of repairing a breach in
the outer wall of the tower and that they will take
you most of the way. While they pack up their
tools, you notice a roll of parchment in the cart. Do
you Jouk at it (turn to 270), or prefer not to {turn

to 53)?

234
An arrow hits you in the back and then disappears
in a puff of smoke. The poisen seeps through your
body. Deduct 2 SKILI poinis and 4 STAMINA
points. You stagger to a stone hut. Turn to 47-

235
You crawl along the tunnel and open another trap-

door. You are in a room with a staircase leading up-
You go up the stairs and find another room with
doors heading cast (turn to 162) and south (frm

to 344).

—_— — ~

236-237

236

You stay in the shadows. You are amazed at the lack
of guards, and have no problem in slipping over the
perimeter wall. The lava river is glowing ahead but,
as you try to walk along it, you find that in reality it
is 2 moat. The only way out is the way you were
brought in. You find the stepping-stones and are
taced with a row of three immediately ahead of you.
You remember how careful your captors were in
choosing the right step. Can you recall the correct
path? Do you jump on the left stone (turn to 206),
the right (turn to 319), or the centre (turn to 85)?

237

You force your way through the roots. They seem to
tighten as you pass and you realize that there is no
going back. Tabasha squeezes out in front of you
and tries to guide you. Suddenly there is a shriek
and there, in front of her, is a grim, furry creature
with small eyes and large claws. ‘Ihe Bazouk ex-
tends her own claws, bares her fangs and attacks.
Test your Luck. lf you are Unlucky, Tabasha loses the
tight and you are Jeft defenceless as the vile creature
attacks your face. Your quest is over. If you are
Lucky, Tabasha wins and drags the creature into a
break in the tangled roots. You continue until the
roots out into a space beneath a vast, hollow,
wooden shaft. There are spiral cuts in the shaft, Do
you climb up (turn tp 133), or squeeze into another
hole (turn to 306)?
238

238

As though m a dream, you are dragged through all
the places you visited in your quest. You hang on to
the Shield until you find yourself back in the Keep at
Gorak. You are standing in front of the crack you
entered a long time ago, clutching the Shield.
Tabasha jumps out of your pocket and mins across
to Astragal, who is loiteringin the comer. In front of
you are five knights who have been waiting for your
return.

Study the knights carefully. Can you spot the
traitor? You have only one attempt. If you fail, the
real traitor will exact revenge for his or her thwarted
ambitions. From the left, do you choose:

The first? Turn to 160
The second? Tum to 341
The third? Furn to 48
The fourth? Tum to 367

The fifth? Turn to 349

239-240

You walk along a smelly tunnel and hear raucous
laughter in the distance. You come to some Stairs
and can see a room of half a dozen Orcs. One of
them wears a black hood and holds a red-hot poker.
Lying on the ground in front of him is a Dwarf. Do
you wish to help the Dwart (turn to 328), or continue
along the corridor (turn in 22)?

240

You 6wist and turn in the dim light, but the Xokusai
archers are excellent. An arrow slams into your
thigh and you collapse. Deduct 4 sTA MINA points.
Turn to 64.

ee eS

241-242

241

A very large boulder drops down on your leg (de-
duct 2 STAMINA points). You are trapped. Throw
three dice for the weight of the rock, and compare
the result with your sramINa. If the weight is
greater than your STAMINA, then you are stuck and
your quest is over. [fitis equal to, or less than, your
STAMINA, then you shift the rock and manage to
limp away as you hear more rumbling. Tum to 60.

7

You hear the sound of the chase as you teeter along
the ledge. Just then an arrow is shot at you from
above. Throw a die to indicate your position, Throw
a second die to show where the arrow hits. If the
two throws match, you are wounded (deduct 2
STAMINA points). Repeat twice. Ifyou survive, you
see a dark cave ahead of you. Taking shelter in the
cave, you sense a beast in the pitch-black depths.
Suddenly there is a flash of fangs and claws.

LONG-TOOTH BEAR

If you win, you rush back. Tum to. 156.

SKILL6& STAMINAS
245-246
243-244

243
In the thick mist you hear a troop of Orcs on

Koyunlu ride past, led by a snarling, sniffing
Khuddam. Occasionally, strange balltike creatures
bounce towards you, but you are content to boot
them away. Eventually you come to a high wall.
You can just see watchtowers placed about 200
paces apart. Do you try to climb the wall here (tum
to 315), or walk along it (turn to 134)?

245
As you ignore the plea for help, the Dwarf stiffens,
tums around and joins the athers. They proceed
into the darkness. You let them go and then take the
same tunnel. Turn te 203.

: = 246

The cave is full of ancient Dwarf armour, in huge
mounds. You have to push a lot of the suits over to
find all the exits. Which door do you choose:

North-west? Turn to 200
South-west? ‘Turn to194
North-east? Tum to27
244
You hear the hiss and snarl of a biack-cloaked
Khuddam. He stares down at you and could poss-
ibly be smiling. He pulls out a massive scimitar and
swings at you DAP i
\ ' |
be aa ies i
KHUDDAM SKILL 10 STAMINA 12 SS ee

If you win, mark the Khuddam on the Adventure
Sheet. The mist clears and you see that the ground is
not much of a drop. You jump down. Tum to 364.
247-248

= es Cane xs
SAIS TNS eee
BS

247
The tunnel begins to slope gently downwards. You
notice platforms and steps cut out of the rock, It
looks as though some great civilization had once
constructed the route. Suddenly you hear a noise;
the Sword loses its brightness, and you listen care-
fully in the dark. You sense a shape collapse on the
ground by your feet. In the distance you see two
torches and hear the shrieks and screams of what
can only be Orcs. The Sword shines momentarily
and you see a wounded Dwarf at your feet, holding
a metal collar. fhe Orcs are getting closer. Do you
help the Dwarf (turn to 105}, or hide and see what

happens (turn to 303)?

You swing your Sword just below the red dots, but
you fail to make contact. One red dot moves to the
right, the other to the left. Tabasha the Bazouk is as
curious as you about them. She jumps down and
catches one of the dots. It is some kind of fly. The
Bazouk cats itand then proceeds to catch the other
fly; she does not offer it to you. You scout around
and find two possible exits; a large tunnel leading
up (turn to 203}, or a narrower tunnel on the level
(hurn to 393)-

249-250

249

The path is very rocky and sometimes the tunnel
nearly closes up. After a long time, you begin to get
tired and hungry, You sit down and look at your
Provisions. If you have enough for a meal, have it
now and add 4 sTAMINA points. If you have the
means to cook the food, add an extra 2 STAMINA
points. If you cannot eat, deduct 2 STAMINA points.
Turn to 10.

250

After a while the path begins to slope upwards. As
you walk up you run into a squad of six Xokusal
Ores. Fight each in turn (One-Strike Combat). If you
win, turn 10 291-

254

a3
You stand there staring at the black cloak. Just then
a Gaddon woman comes in and sniffs the air, She is
startled, and appears to be able to smell the evil on
the cloak. ‘Who are you? What are you doing here?’
Do you confide in her {turn to 225), or leave the
room at once {turn tu 43)?
252-253

252
You walk along the tunnel fora long time. Suddenly
Tabasha jumps off your shoulder and begins to
scratch at the side of the tunnel. You look carefully
and find a narrow crack into which you jam the tip
of the Sword. The crack widens until, suddenly, a
door swings open. In front of you stand three stone
figures, each by the side of an open door. You can
think of nothing else but to ask each in turn if their
door leads to the Caves of Minosaddurt. The first
figure proclaims that the third figure shows the true
way; the second figure proclaims that the first figure
shows the true way. The third figure is silent.

if you have any guidance to the nature of the Three
Stone Wraiths, apply it now. Which door do you
wish to enter:

First? Turn to 212

Second? ‘Turn to 326

Third? Turn to173
253

You squeeze through the narrow crack and find
yourself in a cavern full of old, dry, woady raots,
stacked neatly in the comer. As you examine the
cavern, you find a small metal trap with a recently
Killed rabbit inside. You take the rabbit (add 2 meals
to your Provisions box) and some of the woad {add 2
points to the Fuel box of your Adventiire Shieet).

There are sharp tools and old skins scattered around
the cavern and you decide to leave by the only other
tunnel. When you have been walking for a few
254-255

hundred paces you hear a shriek behind you, and
then the sound of pursuit. You begin to nun, but you
stop ata deep chasm, whichis crossed by a narrow,
stone bridge. Across the chasm stands an evil
lnoking Dark Elf holding a large staff. Do you
attempt to cross the chasm (tum fo 129), or Stay
where you are to await your pursuer (turn to 398)?

254

You edge along slowly. Ahead you see a furry, black
feeler, heading for your leg. Turning around, you
see another behind you. Two other feelers appear
and quickly wrap themselves around your ankles.
You chop at them with the Sword, but more and
more appear, You have come close to the lair of the
fabled Beast of Fellscar Crags. Throw two dice for
the number of feelers that appear. Then throw two
dice again for the number you manage to chop off. If
the second number is equal to, or greater than, the
first, then you have succeeded in warding it off
(deduct 2 STAMINA points and turn to 195). If not,
then it pulls you off balance, straight into its gaping
mouth - -.

255

You weave through the roots. The going gets easier
until you find yourself in a wooden tunnel and
manage to stand up. You look around and see a
figure, swathed in dark robes, holding a two-
headed axe. The Sword’s gleam fades and leaves
you in darkness. ‘Put away your Sword,” com-
mands the stranger. Do you doas asked (turn to 63),
or do you prepare to fight (turn to 130)?

256

256
The troop begins to wheel right; spears are brought
to bear and swords are drawn. Your Sword seems to
lift into your hand, The Koyunlu charge at full
gallop. You see a phalanx of Troll guards ahead and
plough straight through them. Some of the Trolls
are mounted. One of them gallops towards you.

MOUNTED TROLL SKUL1.8 STAMINA 10

If you win, you notice that the Gaddon force has
regrouped into two, and these are taking the brunt
of the Orc army attack. Which group do you ride for
= the one on the left (turn to 374), or the group on the
right (furn to 52)?

257-258

257
In the next room there are several shafts in the walls

and a large staircase leading down. You cautiously
inspect the stairway when, suddenly, you hear 2
slithering sound and a green Creature jumps oul at
you. lt holds two scimitars and wears bits of Orc
armour that are far io0 small forit. ‘Ah, good. More
food,’ it babbles as it mans at you.

SLIME BELLY

If you win, you run down the stairs. Turn to 376.

SKILLZ STAMINA §

jee
“5 ? ne

aaa
oe
~

258

The door opens casily. You walk ito a well-lit
room. ‘There are several torches on each wall. Sud-
denly they flare up and you hear a booming, rasping
voice: ‘So, you are here, blond heir. You have come
for the Shield. You are very welcome. But first you
must find ME!’ The torches go outand you are left in
complete darkness. Something crawls across the
back of your neck. The Sword does noi shine and
feels yery heavy. You remember from when you
walked in that there are two exits. Do you go
through the door leading north (turn to 52), or the
door west (turn to 170)? On the west door you feel
the following pattern:

non
obuU
non

259-260

259
You walk along a rough track for many miles. The

cavern is huge and you cannot sce an end to it, but
in the distance you can see thick smoke. You stop
fora rest when, suddenly, you hear someone cough
dehind you. You spin around to find a strange,
long-bearded man, laden with trinkets. He smiles
and introduces himself as Pierskat the Trader. His
eyes light on Tabasha and the Sword, and he asks
you if you would like to look at his goods. Du you
2gree (turn to 213) or refuse (turn to 147)?

260

inside the small hut there is a suit of very large
Ore-like leather armour, inclu ding a full face-mask.
You examine it carefully and find blood smeared on
the inside. The cart gets nearer and you can see an
Ore detachment in front of it, and a rather taller
group behind. You have heard stories of renegade
men and women working for Orghuz. The Orc
commander calls out for the guard. Do you don the
armour and #0 out (turn to 186), or make arun forit
(turn to 161}?

261-262

264

The boat mishes over a waterfall and crashes into the
water below. [t speeds up in the rushing flow and
you can see no way to slow it down. The Dwarfs
have now begun to punch each other, and take no
notice as the river breaks up in a series of rapids.
You grab the two fevers and try to steer through.
Test your Luck. If you are Unlucky, you fail and
fatally smash into the Devil's Teeth rocks. If you are
Lucky, turn to 163.

262

You hide the Sword in your cloak and walk into a
smoky chamber. In the middle of the room is a fire.
You sit down at one of the surrounding tables and
look around. As you get used to the dim light, you
realize that the other occupants are all Orcs wearing
distinctive jerkins with the symbol of the Mailed
Fist. You watch them swilling their ale and forcing
food down their throats. A man walks past with a
tray and is shouted at by one of the Orcs. ‘Come
here, Gaddon. More Scorchspark, and be quick or
we'll have your bowels for breakfast." The man is
blind but moves with great confidence. Do you get
up and go to the other room (turn to 84), or stay
(turn to 284)?
263-264

263
The water is warm and you splash upstream.
Eventually you stop and hide behind some rocks,
You watch the riders pull up by the stream. The
Koyunlu are made to kneel down and sniff the aree
to find your scent. Aftera while the riders turn back.
Turh to 25.

264

Two hooded figures stand before you in the cave.
One is Astragal; the other he intreduces as Tancred.
Tancred tells you fhat Orghuz is no more and that
the quest is over. “You will be well rewarded. Just
then you hear laughing behind you. You tum round
to find no one. Turning back, you find no trace of
the figures. You are in a cave of illusion. Another
illusion is beginning to form, but you ignore it-
There are four exits— which do you choose:

North-west? Turn to 335
South-west? Turn to 205
South-east? Tur to 382
North-east? Turn to107

265-266

265
You settle down and get some rest. You talk to one
of the Dwarfs called Mithlir, who tells you that they
escaped from Orghuz’s influence by destroying the
spell on the collars, but they still wear them for
disguise. He stops for a moment and listens care-
fully. Suddenly he calls out: Batishk, batishk.” He
lies down and covers his face. Before you can move,
2 large yampire bat swoops down and bites you.
Throw a die and deduct the number from your
STAMINA score, Mithlir grabs a small whistle and

plays a piercing tune. The batishk leaves you and
flies away.

Then Aspra Smoothcheek and the others retum.
They are laden with loot and Toplander food for
Orghuz’s own table. Turn to 124.

266
Turn to 38.
267-268

267
You stand by the door. It is being battered by Ores,
urged on by the cries of their captain: ‘Smash it
down, you filth. Push hard or I'll chop your hands
off.’ The door gives way and a battering ram crashes
in. You stand in the doamway, ready for combat, as
the Orcs come through the door. Fight each in tum.

SKILL. STAMINA
First ORC 6 6
Second ORC 6 5
ORC CAPTAIN 7 8

If, atany time, you throw double 1, the person who
is attacking has been hit by a stray poisoned arrow.
If you survive, Aspra and the Dwarfs follaw you
out, Turn to 375.

268

You are in another stone hut, much larger and
grander than the others. You open a metal door on
your right to find a room full of weapons. An Orcts
cleaning a spear in front of you. Suddenly you see
your Sword rise out ofa pile in the comer and fly to
your hand. The Orc throws the spear. Tes! your Luck.
If you are Unlucky, it hits you and you are wounded
(deduct 2 STAMINA points). If you are Lucky, it
misses. You then rush out of the room night into a
Guard Troll. Do you fight (turn to 23), or run outside
{turn to 312)?

269-271

269

You run away fast but turn around to see a familiar
black cloak. The Khuddam screams hideously. You
tun along the alleyways, up some steps and leap
over the camp wall. Throw two dice. If you throw
double 1, you break an ankle on landing and are
soon caught and killed. If not, you make off in the
dark, with the sound of riders in pursuit. You see
shadowy figures swarming round the area where
you landed. They pick up vour trail and give chase.
Ahead of you is a tall volcano, and you notice steps
heading up to the top. Do you go up (turn to 56), or
skirt around the base of the volcano {turn to 116)?

270

itisa map of the outer wall fortifications to Orghuz's
tower. The quarry is marked and you work out a
direction. On a section of the wall, distinguished by
2 dagger symbol, there is a scrawled cross, and you
suspect that this is where the breach is. You care-
fully roll up the parchment. Turn to 53.

271

The marsh gets deeper. You have to wade up to
your Knees. Just then, you hear flapping sounds
and see two shapes moving towards you. Do you
move off the path to hide behinda large rock (turn to
115), or stay where you are (turn to 137)?

272-274

272
You watch Tabasha lick herself ali over. She then
begins to wobble and fails over. She is in a deep
sleep. You put herin your pocket and trudge off into
the dark, Turn to 149-

273

You walk into the corridar and it begins to slope
downwards, The walls get damp and you find
that you slip on the wet flagstones. You hear an
occasional cry, which eventually becomes a distinct
call for help. The scream comes from a heavy metal
door that is bolted from the outside. Do you go in
(turn to 387), or carry on along the corridor (tum to
22)?

274
You are ina room full of rotting rubbish. Above you
there is a large shaft, through which the occasional
bone drops. You hear laughter, and then: ‘Do you
think this has enough meat on it to toughen up the

275-276

Xokusai Elite?’ A bone witha bit of gristle on it drops
down and hits you on the shoulder. ‘Any sign of
that cursed intruder sent by that meddling Wizard?’
You realize that the traitor Astragal warmed you.
about must be the one talking. You want to leap up
into the shaft to see who itis. Throw two dice: thisis
the distance. Throw two dice again: this is your
attempt. If the attempt is equal to, or greater than,
the distance, you have made it. Turn to 390. Lf you
fail. deduct : STAMINA point and try again. If you
cannot make it up the shaft, you rush out of the
room. Turn to 139.

27

The Trogs scream and Spout abuse at you from
behind the pillars. You haul the chest into the hole
and follow it in. You are ina tunnel. You pick up the
chest and walk along, unknowingly kicking a tense
rope. A poisoned Trog arrow hits you in the sto-
mach. As you collapse and die, you see the Trogs at
the entrance of the tunnel, leaping up and down
excitedly.

276

You make a grab for the Sward- She ftres. Test your
Luck. If you are Uniucky, you are dead before you
hit the ground. If you are Lucky, she misses and
pulls out her own sword. The handle of your Sword
is red-hot; itscorches your skin. Deduct2 STAMINA
points.

HIRKHANA SKILL 9 STAMINA 10

if you win, furn to 203.
277-278

277
You are in a cave with three metal doors marked in
runewrite. There is also an old unmarked wooden
door. Which do you enter:

The wooden door? Turn i039
North-west? Turn to 205
North-east? Turn to 382
South-east? Turmmtoz

You choose wisely. All the gold of the Chasms will
not help if the Evil seeps up and saps the Tree of
Life’ {Mark the Everlasting Wood on your Adzen-
irre Sheet. If you geta chance to cook your food, use
it again and again.) The ald man begins to stiffen up
and you can detect wood grain appearing on his
skin. Gregory takes you to the end of the wooden
tunnels and into the rocky ones. He shakes your
hand and leaves you, Add 2 L\tcx points. You walk
along, trying to get a splinter out of your hand.
After a while the tunnel begins to get unbearably
hot. Turn to 112.

279

279

You run into the small cave_ In the middle isa young
Gaddon, bound upinastrange webbing. You check
the cave; there are ne other exits or tunnels. You
begin to cut the sticky bindings when, suddenly, a
giant Fang Spider drops on top of you from the roof

of the cave. You squirm out from under it and draw
your Sword.

FANG SPIDER SKILL 6

If you win, you cut the Gaddon free and he takes
you to the Iron Cave. There are two doors and he
tells you to take the left door. Add 2 Luck points.
Turn to 199.

STAMINA 10

280
Soon the chill darkness turns to glowing red and
there is a hot smell in the air. The carl stops and you
ean hear a cracking and hissing. You are pulled out
of the cart and see a stream of lava in front of you.
There are two rows of three square blocks of stone

raised above the lava. The Trolls begin to measure
up their position and to chant like Gorak school
children:

Black on the nght,

One across left,
One diagonal left.

They take you across and you memorize the chant,
in case you come back this way. Turn to 371-

281-283

281

The second Orc has disappeared. You look at the
Dwarf; an arrow sticks out of his side but then turns
to smoke. ‘It's too late: the poisonisin my blood,’ he
says. You explain your mission and he shivers at the
mention of the Khuddam. ‘Look to the Gaddon - . -
go to the Dragon’s Breath Inn ... they might
help. . .” These are his last words. You set offin the
direction taken by the Ores. Turn to 383.

282
You follow the others into a large hut with stone
tables. In the middleis an Ore with a cauldron full of
bones and gristie. It looks disgusting, but when you
are given some on a plate you make an attempt to
eat it. You slip some into your pocket, but 'abasha
throws it out again. After the meal an Orc appears
with some metal collars, hands them around and
orders everyone to put them on. Do you slip the
collar on (turn to 165), or run out of the hut (turn to

139)?

283

You are taken toa tunnel that slopes dawnwards. In
the middleis a shallow stream, which you follow for
many hours. The water begins to get hot and you
can smell a foul stench rising from it. Suddenly the
Stream disappears mto the ground and there, ahead
of you, stands a gate that blocks the whole tunnel.
On the gate is a skeleton hanging by a metal spike.
You begin to feel around the gate in the dim light of
the Sword. Do you start to the left (turn to 75), ar to
the right (turn to 323)?
284-285

284
The Gaddon brings the Ores their tankards of

Scorchspark Brew and then comes over to you_ You
wonder al his ability to sense you. Te asks what you
will have and you ordersome food. When he leaves,
the Ores are suddenly very quiet; the candles flicker
and you feel a chill running up your spine- Just then
a black-cloaked figure glides into the room and
hisses at the Ores. They quickly scuttle out of the
room. As it is about to go, it starts to sniff and furns
tound to face vou, “Sssssss.. . Loplander,’ it hisses
al you and pulls outa scimitar. Do you choose tonin
(turn to 43), or do you fight (turn to 299)?

285

By the light of the Sword vou see the helm being
lifted off the warrior’s head. Long, dark hair falls out
and you see a Gaddon woman with eyes that will
never see. She is a Feelbrethren warrior called
Khazara. She knows where you come from by your
smell and you tell her the details of your quest. She
leads you back ta her village, Caverndown. She
explains that itis a village under siege: onc of the last
bastions of Gaddon power. Suddenly one of the
Dwarfs screams, as an arrow buries itscif in his leg.
You are ambushed by a squad of four Ores. Khazara
takes on Gyo of them and you face the others. Fight
each in tum.

SKILL STAMINA
First ORC 7 8
Second ORC 6 5

Tf you win, turn to 360.

286-288

286

You scramble down. [tis deep and dark in the ditch.
The cartapproaches and you hear shouting: ‘Guard!
Where's that lazy scum, filth of a Toplander. If-I
catch him, I'll throw him in the ditch and let the
Gremlins get him.’ You stare around to see a horde
of fanged creatures clutching short stabbing
swords. Your quest ends here.

287

The drum stops beating. You then hear wild
screams as you edge your way down the steep
slope. You can carry your Sword in one hand but
have little room to swing it. The ledge divides again:
there is a steep track to the left (turn to 361), anda
gently sloping ledge heading right (turn to 146).
Which way do you go?

288
The spell stops. There is no trace of the destnaction
that has taken place. You walk into another corridor
and find a door on the left marked:

uco

ann

300

De you open the door (turn to 125), or carry onalony
the corridor (turn to 207)?
289—290

The corridor leads to a staircase. You walk down the
stairs; at the bottom you enter a large hall with
scattered bits of furniture, bones (that could be
human), and a fireplace that looks as though it was
recently used. Two broken skulls are lying in the
comer. There is also a chest in the hall. You walk
over to it. Do you decide to open it (fur to 114), or
do you carry on to the next room (turn to 397)?

2

You shut yourself in otal as the sound of run-
ning gets nearer. Suddenly your left leg is pulled
from below. You fall into a swampy pool. A hand is
pulling you down. You swiftly pull out your Sword
and stab into the swamp close to your leg. Throw
two dice. If you throw a double, then you have
chopped off the creature's arm. If not, then reduce
your STAMINA by 2 points and try again untl
your STAMINA reaches zero, in which case you are

291-293

dragged under and your quest is over. If you
succeed, you clamber out, find no one around and
tush off down the nearest tunnel. Add t tuck
point. Turn to 201-

291

You are attacked by a Gryphon. It already holds a
Singed Ore in one claw, but still swoops down on
you, breathing fire. You thrust at it with your
Sword.

GRYPHON SKILL 8 STAMINA 10

Tf you win, you have a choice of a ledge to the left
(turn to 312), or another to the nght (turn to 195).

292

You are in a small room full of old bottles, jars, dried
bats and spiders. It reminds you of the Apothecary
in Gorak. Three old hags sit by a roaring fire in the
corner. They whisper to each other and laugh. They
see you and slowly they begin to change into large
wolves. You try to lift your Sword but it feels very
heavy. The hags have now completely changed,

and you are standing in front of three wolves, who
begin to stalk you. You look for exits and find a door
heading north (turn te 66), and a door heading
south (turn to 113).

293
You land on top of the Orc and he falls off the ledye.
Add 1 Luck point. You find your Sword stuck ina
crack on the rocks below, and pick it up. You can
hearshouts and screams getting closer. Turn to 379.
294

294
The old man catches his breath: ‘Yes, that is the
Sword. I helped spellbind the blade many years
ago. He picks up a large book from one of the
shelves. ‘Now, heir to Tancred, we must be quick.
You are in great danger. The Khuddam are becom-
ing very strong and enslaving all the other beings in
the Chasms. As the Shield cracks, the Dark Lord
becomes more powerful. I cannot teach vou much of
the Sensefight. This | leave to others. But study
these symbols carefully; they are from the golden
age of the Feelbrethren when most of these tunnels
were built. They mean Left, Right, Danger, Safe,
Up, Down.” The old man then brings you anather
book of Secret Cyphers, which he explains (turn to
399, but you must remember to come back to this
section).

\

The old man brings you food (add 2 sTAMINA
points) and tells you to seek the Caves of Minosad-
durr, where burns the Heartflame. He warns: ‘Tem-
per the Sword that it may strike the lethal blow.’
When you eventually take your leave, you have to
deade whether to head to the left (turn to 144) or to
the right (turn to 252).

l=.

295-296

295
You politely refuse. The other Marsh Goblin, who
calls himself Hood wink, looks at you as though you
do not know what you will be missing. They grab
you and sling you over their shoulders and begin to
run over the marsh, humming a strange tune. They
have great stamina and do not stop. After a time,
you enter an encampment. Words and curses are
exchanged and you are deposited in a room and
given hideous black slime to eat. Do you eat it (tum
to 185), or do you throw it out of the window (tum

to 354)?

You come out of the water. When you look down at
your hands, you see that they are covered in black,
wriggling: leeches. They are also all over your face.
You pick them off, but they make you feel weaker
and weaker. Deduct 4 sTaMINa points. You realize
that the leeches are poisoned, Tabasha has stopped
licking herself and stands in front of you. You know
that you are about to lose consciousness. Deduct 1
SKILL point. Do you will Tabasha io help you (mark
4 use on the Adventure Shee! and furn to 336), or do
you prefer to lic down and get some more rest (turn
to 17)?

297-298

297
Ahead of you is an intricately carved, stone stair-
case, depicting various exotic creatures. Some of
them appear to move. There is also another door
that does not open. You step over a brightly
a snake and make your way upstairs. Turn
> 206. ;

298
You are very tired. You decide to have a rest and
eventually find a small hill crowned with large
boulders —a good defensive position.

You are awakened by Tabasha trying to crawl back
into your pocket. itis pitch-black. You pull out your
Sword and it shines brightly as you listen to shrieks,
snarls and murmurings all around. Suddenly you
see a dark figure with long dagger-like nails rushing
towards you. Do you strike at it with your Sword
(turn to 34), or run out of the way (turn to 316)?

299-300

299
You draw out your Sword. You are facing a Khud-

dam, one of Orghuz’s lieutenants.
KHUDDAM GESHRAK SKILL 10 STAMINA 12

If you win, the body disappears, leaving only
the black cloak of fine mesh mail. Mark the dead
Khuddam on the Adventure Sheel. Turn to 252-

300
You rush down the alleyway. In front of you stands
a Marsh Goblin, blocking the way. You vaguely
recosmize him: it is Gruff. He swings a scimitar at
you.

GRUFF SKILL 6 STAMINA 12

If you win, the fight has caused a disturbance. Turn
to 269.

301

bAT
a Ter ee et ey,

301
You walk along the track. There are the remains of
recent camp-fires all around. Suddenly you stop in
front of a wide chasm. You stare down but can only
see darkness. Across the yawning vapis an old rope
bridge, protected on cither side of the chasm by two
stone guard-huts. You can hear the noise of riders
behind you, and can see a hideous Gryphon in the
distance. You haye no choice but to run on to the
bridge. When you are in the middle of the swayin ir
structure, two Orc guards emerge from each hut,
They run on to the bridge, and you find yourself
with two Orcs in front of you and two behind. Fight
four One-Strike Combat rounds. If you win, you
Tun across and cut the ropes. Do vou then head for
some nearby caves (turn to 189), or carry on along
the track (turn to 372}?

——
7 ee

—
se
_——

302-303

302
You slither and slide down the rocky slope and then
land swith a splash in a puddle, close to a rushing
river, The water is very cold. ‘To your ieft there is 2
narrow path. Do you travel in the direction of the
flow (turn to 223), or do you go upstream (turn to

145)?

303

You climb up on toa low ledge. The Orcs sniff their
wav to the Dwarf: “Ah, he’s here, and with the
collar. Rich pickings.’ The other Ore grabs the collar
and throws it into a sack, Ile then stabs the Dwart to
make sure that he is dead. ‘How much for this one?
he asks, as they lope off the way they came. Do you
take the same tunnel (turn ta 383), or prefer to go
back the other way (turn to 135)?

304-307

You walk along the road. The cavern is enormous
and in the dim red glow you can see no end to it.
Just then you hear the sound of a cart approaching.
A hundred paces ahead is a stone hut by the side of
the road. Do you decide to run inside (tum to 260),
or prefer to leap into a ditch at the side of the raad
(turn to 286)?

305

You raise your Sword, I¢ does not shine, so you
cannot see the warrior, who laughs and prods you
in the stomach. You swing the Sword, but each time
the warrior counters with ease. Deduct 2 STAMINA
points. “Yield! You cannot beata Sensefighter in the
Dark.’ The voice is muffled and distorted. You
decide to lower your Sword; it then begins to shine.
Turn to 285.

306
Turn to 12.

397

Thereisa blue light in the centre of the cave. You see
a row of Crystals and next to them a Jegend in
runewrite. “Whisper the total number of Crystals in
the Caves of Minosaddurr if you wish to leave.’
There are sixty-seven Crystals in this particular
cave. You whisper this number but nothing hap-
pens. If you know the total number of Crystals
contained in the Caves of Minosaddurr, and wish to
leave, go to that number now. If not, there are exits
south-west (turn to 27) and west (turn to 188).
308-309

308

Koyunlu are brought out of dark stables and
saddled. You wonder at the strange hairy beasts
with their mass of horns. They have no reins and
seem to be controlled by foot movements, leaving
both hands free for battle. You mount one and trot
around; it has no trouble jumping on to rocks and is
very sure-footed. A hom announces the muster;
@ great number of warriors assemble by the gates.
Suddenly the gates are opened and the Feel-
brethren charge out with a great cry. There are fires
and torches ail around. The riders swerve to the left
as the besieging host begin to fire arrows at you. Test
your Luck. If you are Unlucky, you are hit by an
arrow and wounded (deduct 2 stamina points). If
you survive, turn to 256,

309
You must fight Orghuz by the number of Khuddam
left alive on your Adventure Sheet,

ORGHUZ SKILL 10 STAMINA 12

If you win, mark off one Khuddam on the Adventure
Sheet.

if you win and you have tempered your Sword in
the Heartflame of Minosaddurr, turn to 385. But if
not, you must fight Orghuz again until you have
marked off all the Khuddam lives on the Adventure
Sheet.

Once all the Khuddam are accounted for, turn to
385.
310-311

310
You are now refreshed and feel able to set off on
your quest for the Shield. After a long time you
come fo what looks like a stone sentry-post. On
cither side of the tunnel there are two small slits in
the rock, Do you rush past quickly (hurn to 73), or do
you crouch down and craw! under the slits (turn to

351)?

311
AE first the slope is very gentile. Then it gets steeper
and occasionally you slip on some icy slime. Soon,
as the surface becomes very smooth, you find you
are having difficulty getting any grip. Suddenly you
see one of your pursuers slip past you, screaming.
The screams stop with a sickening thud. Then you
slip...

|
.

312-313

312
You run straight into the Chief Khuddam, probably
the greatest fighter out of the Seven Fell Servants
of Orghuz. She has no other weapons but her
poisonous long claws. If you have not got your
Sword, use the SKILL and sTAMINA shown in the
brackets. If vou have your Sword, use the first set of
figures.

KHUDDAM SKILL 10 STAMINA 12
FRIANKARA (12) (16)

If you win, mark off the name on the Adventure
Sheet. If you have your Sword, turn to 236. If you do
not have your Sword, you feel the pull of its power
and make your way to an empty weaponry. You
find it propped up in the corner. You take it and
tush out. Turn to 236.

323

He takes you through a maze of roots and then up
2 wooden staircase. Everything is made of wood,
You follow him along a hacked-out wooden carzi-
dor, to 2 large intricately carved door. Inside, an
old man lies on a bed of fine roots; his own
limbs seem to merge into the surrounding wood,
‘Here is a Toplander. Is he the answer to the
prophecy?’ asks Gregory. The old man stirs; there
is 2 loud cracking sound. ‘The Tree of Life is being
poisoned by evil,’ he says. ‘Soon all will be bleak
and barren. The prophecy calls on me to offer you
one of twoitems. - .” Which do you choose: a bag of
gold (turn to 104), or a sliver of Everlasting Wood
(turn to 278)?
314-315

314
You are ina room sith one other door to the east. In
the corner, to the right, is a heap of what looks like
sludge. It is foul-smelling and steammg. As you
walk around, the sludge shimmers and moves to-
wards you. It reveals a trapdoor in the floor. Then
three feelers spring out of the pile. They are covered
in spiky thorns. Do you choose to go through the
door east (turn ta 132)? If not, you'll have to pass the
sludge to get to the trapdoor.

SLUDGE
If you survive, you open the trapdoor to reveal a
tunnel heading south-west. Turn to 235-

SKILLS STAMINA 12

315
You notice gaps between the stones. It is possible to
climb, if you are very cureful. Throw a die twelve
times. You need cight throws of 4 or under to
succeed. lf you fail, you have been spotted by an
archer in the watchtower and shot. If you succeed,
turn to 30.

316-318

316
You run out into the darkness straight into a
Spiked Flesh-Eating Kakti. You cannot free your-
self from the spikes and your flesh will probably
feed the Kakti for many months. Your quest is
over.

347
After a long walk, you stop to sleep. When you
awake, you see Tabasha with a blind fish fying in
front of her. If you wish to eat now, add 4 STAMINA
points. Otherwise mark 1 meal on the Adzeviture
Sheet. If you have the means to cook the meal add 2
extra STAMINA points.

When you get up, you hear the shuffling of many
feet ahead of you. Looking around, you find two
possible places to hide: a little niche to the left (turn
i) an or a hole in the ground to the right (turn to
290).

318

Suddenly you hear the thunder of animal hoofs on
the rocky ground. You look carefully and make out
six riders wearing long, black capes. There is a loud
wail when they spot you and spears are brought to
bear as they give chase. They get closer and one of
the riders throws a spear. Test your Luck. If you are
Unlucky, you are wounded (deduct 2 STAMINA
pomts). If you are Lucky, the spear misses. Just
then, you move out of the riders’ sight and find
yourself by a river of murky water, Do you jump
over it (turn to 94}, or wade into it (turn to 263)?
319-322

ars
You are safe. Your choice now is:
Left Turn to13
Forward Turn to 148
Diagonaily left Turn to§4
320

You walk over the rocky ground, Sword at the
ready. Suddenly you sense something close behing
you. You spin around, just in time to see a Wraith
about to slice you in half with a huge sword. You
duck and weave into a good fighting position.

M1S1 WRAITH

lf you survive, you find some steps leading up. Do
you want to go up the steps (turn fo 210), or head of
to the right (furn to 243)?

SKILLS STAMINAS

321
You reach a dead end. As you turn around, a
chasing Orc appears and hacks at the ledge; a large
chunk drops off. Another Orc prepares to fire an
arrow at you. You can either jump to your death or
wait for the poisoned arraw- The choice is yours.

322
After a rest, you are taken to the great libranan
Menzik. You can hear the sound of battle outside
and you are told that Khazara has been foraging for
food and is fighting her way back through the siege.
Menzik turns out to be a Gnome: a rare breed on
Khul — a long-lived race which is slowly dying out.

323

You find him in a huge library, full of tomes that he
can hardly carry. He sits you down and explains the
old Gaddon counting system of Cyphers. Turn to
399, but keep this page marked and come back to it
after reading that section.

Menzik gives you a test, He sits you in the dark and
you have to feel this shape:

o.

~
- -——

Ifyou know what to whisper, turn to that number. If
not turn to 228.

3
You start smoothing away the dust and cobwebs.
You feel the following shape:

If you know the Cypher, whisper it now and go to
that section. If not, then turn back and take the
tunnel for Downdrop Cavern. Turn to 357.
324

324
You go into the kitchen. You are hungry but do not
dare taste the revolting gruel. If you have your own
Provisions have one meal now and mark it off in
the Provisions box of your Adventure Sheet. Add 4
STAMINA points. Otherwise deduct 2 STAMINA
points.

Just then, two Goblins walk in with the intention of
stealing some extra food. They see you, scowl and
pull out their swords. Fight each in turn.

SKILL STAMINA
First GOBLIN ‘ 6
Second GOBLIN 5 .

If you win, you hear others coming, and slip
through a small hatch in the wall. You squirm
along as Tabasha squeaks in complaint and then,
suddenly, drop down. Turn to 143.

325-326

325

You go into another room. This time there are
torches on the walls giving off black fumes. The
fumes get thicker and suddenly you cannot breathe.
There is one door leading south. You rush towards
it, but your limbs seem to respond very slowly.
Throw two dice for the amount of sTAMINA needed
to get to the door. If this is less than your STAMINA
score, you have made it. Turn to 68. If not, you
choke to death.

326

The door slams behind you. You are in a small
room. You hear a distant voice in the dark. ‘Your
fate is now in the hands of the Beast of Minosad-
durr, the Shadrac.’ You see two red eyes in the dark
and then see a hideous black, hairy creature with six
arms and two heads. Each head has one eye and
each arm holds a blood-stained scimitar. It is very
dangerous.

SHADRAC

If you win, you discover another open door in front
of you. Turn to 173.

SKILL 10 STAMINA 12
327-328

327

You have made it through the volcano of the Hydra-
No one will follow you through it. You come out
back into the vast cavern, but have lost all sense of
direction. You stop to rest. Tabasha jumps down
and goes hunting, but brings back nothing. She
looks a little distressed and has bits of her fur pulled
out in places. You get up and see two small figures
ahead of you, carrying a block of stone. Do you
decide to head for them {turn to 233) or avoid them
(turn to 301)?

328

You leap down the stairs, swinging your Sword
around your head. At first the Orcs are terrified and
Tun off. Butas you try to free the Dwarf, they return.
Even their small brains can work out that there are
six of them and one of you. They surround you and
strike at random with their swords. Throw a die.
Thisis the Orc that strikes. Throw a second die. This
is where you parry. If the two throws match, you
have struck and wounded one of the Orcs. If not,
then you have been hit. Deduct 1 STAMINA poimt.
Repeat until you have lost all srasina points, in
which case you are dead, or until you strike two
Orcs, in which case the others all run away. If you
survive, you free the Dwart. Tum fo 41-

329-332

329
The crack is narrower than you expected. The

Dwarfs disappear into the dark, but you get stuck.
Check your Adventure Sheet: if you have more than 2
Fuel units in your backpack, then the extra bulk
wedges you tight. A group of Goblins catch you and
chp a metal collar on to your neck. Your quest is
over. If you have 2 or less Fuel unils, you pull
yourself out of the crack (add 3 LUCK points), and
Tush off after Aspra. Turn to 29.

330
Turn to 38.

331

You clamber up the loose rocks. As you get to the
top, the hole closes in behind you. Tabasha rushes
back into the pocket of your cloak, In the dim glow
of the Sword, you can seea tall, dark shape propped
up against a wail. It hisses, snarls and swears:
‘Wounded by those blasted Ores . . . that poison
-.. You have encountered a Khuddam wounded
accidentally by his own archers. He is VERY
dangerous, He sees you and immediately dims the
slow of the Sword. You will have to fight blind. If
you know how to Sensefight, fight as normal. If not
then deduct 2 skit points (for this combat only).

KHUDDAM GURSKUT sktli.to sTAMINA®
if you win, turn to 99.
332

33+

You leap into the cluster of Ores. They shriek and
run back, calling out somebody's name. Suddenly a
Stone Warrior emerges out of the darkness. [he cart
rumbles away and the others chase after it. You find
yourself alone against the rocky fighter. it does not
have a weapon but tnes to cush you between its
aTms.-

STONE WARRIOR

If you win, the battle has been long and hard. You
look for the others but cannot find them. You con-
tinue along the tunnel. Turn te 393.

SKILL 7 STAMINAS

333-335

333

The chest is unlocked. As you open it, the Trogs
shout and shriek at you from behind the pillars,
Inside there are many jewels, golden trinkets, anda
spring-loaded dager that shoots at you. Test your
luck. If you are Unlucky, it implants itself in your
forehead and you die. If you are Lucky, it misses.
Turn to 150. :

334
You are in a cave full of swords. They are stacked on
the floor, and vou have to walk on them to getacross
to the exits. Which do you choose:

North-west? Turn to 107
North-vast? Turn to 200
South-east? Tum toa 194
South-west? Turn to 382

335
A poisoned arrow grazes your cheek. You feel

dizzy. Deduct 1 SKILL point. You reach the nearest
Stone hut. Turn to 47.

336-337

336

You wake up on a hard bed in what seems to be an
Apothecary. In the corner sits an old woman al a
spinning wheel. She looks at you slyly. Tabasha'sits
on your chest and purrs. The woman is talking to
herself as she spins. “Ah, yes, my sweet. We know
the Cutter is His . . . Tancred. Now another Top-
lander comes to kill Him.’ She looks at you- ‘Yes, I
helped you when called by this worthy feline. I also
want the evil to go. [want Orghuz to die, and I want
to be free of the Malice.’ She gives you some potion
to counteract the poison. Turn to 79-

337
You walk into a room with a large table in the
middle. Around, under and below the table are
frolls, Orcs, Dark Elves and Goblins. They seem
to be asleep or drunk. You creep into the room
and discover three other exits. Which do you
choose:

North? Turn to 122
West? Turn to 83
East? Turn to 40
338-343
338

The survivors are greeted by the commander and
told to go to the kitchens. Do you follow the others
there (turn to 282), or slip off into a dark alleyway
(turn 10 152)?

339
You are in a room with two exits. Do you wish to go

north (turn to 196} or west (furn to 162)?

34°
You come ta a dead end. The ledge stops and there
isno way toleap on to another. Suddenly three Orcs
appear. Fight each in turn (One-Strike Combai). If
you win, go back and choose another route. Do you
wish to go right (turn to 156), or take the centre path
(turn to 242)?

341
Turn to 160.
342
Turn to 38.
343
Turn to 171.
i Noa ae f.
“= Soh ————
i eee eet

344-346

44

You walk in and the door closes behind you. You
Stand on a narrow stone path that heads south, then
east. On either side of the path there is swirling blue
smoke. It lies on the ground and seems to create
strange end hideous shapes. Suddenly, the smoke
takes the shape of a warrior. It stands behind you
and swings its sword. The blade crashes on the
path, just missing you. You thrust your Sword
through its body, but to no effect. You nun into the
next room east and shut the door. The Shadow
passes through the door. You rush on, but the path
divides. Which path do you take: the one leading to
@ door north (tum to 162), or through a door cast
(turn to 24)?

5

The boat goes through the ight channel and crashes
into the rocks known as the Devil’s Teeth. Throw a
die: this is your position. Throw a second die: this is
the position of the rocks. If the two throws match,
then you have crashed into them and your quest is
over. Repeat twice, and if you survive, add 1 tuck
Point. Turn to 261.

346 ,
The beat of the drum stops, and you hear a cheer
25 you edge your way down the steep slope. You
See three routes ahead of you. Which do you
choose:

The ledge to the left? Turn to 361
Adrop down toa lowerledge? Turn to220
A slope to the right? Turn to67
347-350

347
A stone dart misses you. You prepare to ward off

other darts with your Sword, The stairs end and, as
directed, you continue along a level tunnel. Sud-
denly, you hear a scream for help coming from 2
large crack on the left. Do you go through the crack
to help (turn to 279), or ignore the screams (furn to

155)?

You circle around it carefully. You hear a swish and
a mass of arrows shoot out at you. Throw a die for
your position and then throw a second die for where
an arrow hits. If the two match, you are wounded
(deduct 2 STAMINA points). Repeat twice. If you
survive, you head back towards the body. Add
1 LUCK point, if you were not wounded. Tum

to 87.

349
Turn to 160.

350
You ring the bell. The sound echoes through the
tunnel but nothing happens. Just when you are
about to take the path, a boat appears. It is steered
downstream by a strange looking figure — a cross
between a man and an Orc. The boat steps at the
bell. The man asks you if you want the ferry, then
looks you up and down and tells you that itis free.
In the boat there is a large bundle at the back and
some levers at the front. The ferryman tells you to sit
down. As you do so, your wrists and neck are

354-352

Spellbound. He laughs as you strugele, and then
Kicks at the bundle toreveal two Dwarfs, also bound
up. You realize that he is a Pirate Slaver. Tabasha
looks up at you as you feel an overpowering urge to
sleep. Do you want to will her to help you get free
{turn to 164), or do you prefer to wait and see (tum
to 2123)?

351
You crouch down and edge past the slits, Suddenly

the ground gives way and you fall into a slimy pit.
Six Xokusai Orcs appear. They are jubilant. You
hear one of them ask if it is time for Fellscar Crags.
He then throws a small round creature into the pit.
The animal exudes a disgusting smell that sends
you to sleep. Turn to 64.

You wake up inside a cave. The entrance has a
weoden door and on the walls are two trapdoors.
The Dwarfs bustle around looking busy. They are
no longer wearing collars. The woman brings you
some food saying: ‘I’m sorry about that. Sometimes
the Ores use Toplander squads in their armies.’ Her
name is Aspra Smoothcheek and she realizes that
you must be important The Khuddam have been
searching for you.’ Just then, a Dwarf rushes in and
whistles. All the doors are shut and Aspra throws
you your Sword. Sheasks you to take up a defensive
position. Do you choose the door (turn to 267), the
first trapdoor (turn to 131), or the second trapdoor
(turn to 97)?
353-354

353

You loiter behind a rock. Just then a Troll comes out
of the inn and tries to pick up the other figure, who
is also a Troll and obviously drunk. The drunken
Troll objects to being touched, pulls out a scimiter
and slashes wildly. His friend sidesieps and
punches him in the face. When he has dragged him
away, you enter the alehouse. Turn to 381.

354
Soon a group of Toplanders arrive and stretch out

on the hard beds. Some are wearing metal collars.
They do not talk but just stare blankly. You realize
that there must be Toplander recruits in Orghuz’s
hordes — some pressed into service, others volun-
teers, They treat you like a new recruit, and when a
drum beats you strap on your sword and they take
you out to line up with the others. In the courtyard
you see a knight in full armour, mspecting the
traops. You cannot see the face but notice a crossed-
daggers motif on the armour. You suspect that this
might be the traitor at Gorak who broke the Great
Seals. When the inspection is over, do you slipaway
in the dark {turn to 388), or go back to the barracks
with the others (furn to 55)?

355-357

355
There is a large pool in the cave. You cannot cross

from door to door and it seems to be deep. You will
have to leap. Throw two dice: this is the distance. If
itis grealer that your STAMINA, you fail, and fallinto
the Deep Red Pool of Elkiem, from which you will
never return. If you succeed, which way do you go:

North-east? Turn to 222
South-east? Turn ti 264
South-west? Turn to 16
North-west? Turn to 45

356
The entrance is steep. Itis very hot and the chamber
is iluminated by a light-red glow. You look back to
see the bats flacking, butnot comingin. Ahead you
see two large holes. Do you go through the one on
the left (turn to 174) or the one on the right (tum to
218)?

357

You stride along the tunnel. Jt eventually opens out
to a large cavern. Actoss the cavern there is a wall,
and in the middle is a tall gate, full of intricate
carvings. There are torches buming and by that
ight you can see a watchtower, manned by Orcs.
The gate opens occasionally, to let in riders and
laden carts. Ahead of you there is a cart packed with
smelly skins, the origins of which you would rather
not know. Do you hide among the skins and try tu
get through that way (turn to 88), or try to slip
through in the little darkness that there is (turn to
172)?
358-360

358
You are very polite, but firmly refuse any trade_ He
tells you that you don‘t know what you are missing,
packs up and goes. Turn to 369.

: 359
You enter the cave and touch some patterns on a
wall; they have no meaning for you. You look for the
exits. In the floar is a trapdoor (turn to 227) or else
there is a choice of three directions. Which do you
choose:

North-east? Tum to194
North-west? Turn to 382
South-west? Turn to2

360
You are amazed al Khazara’s ability. She leads you
and your companions through a boggy marsh to a
set of gates in the defensive walls of Caverndown-
ohe touches some carved stone symbols and whis-
pers whal sounds like ’57" {turn to §7)-

361-363

ci

You edge along and look up to see laya dribbling
down the cliff face. An Ore appears behind you
and gets showered, He falls off. Eventually you
reach another ledge sloping to the right. Do
you take this route (turn to 156), or do you prefer
to drop down on to another ledge just below you
(turn to 204)?

362

You climb the rope. It is very hard work (deduct 1
STAMINA point). Suddenly an Orc spots you from
the left-hand watchtower. He starts firing arrows.
Throw two dice. If you throw any double, you
are hit and wounded (deduct 2 sTAMINA points).
Repeat three times. If you survive, you leap on to
the wall on top of a wounded Goblin. Suddenly
three Xokusai Elite Orcs rush towards you. Fight
each in turn.

SKILL STAMINA
First XOKUSAI 7 8
Second XOKUSAI 6 8
Third XOKUSAI 8 8

If you win, you leap out into the mists on the other
side_ Turn to go.

363
Throw three dice. This is the distance to jump.
Throw one die. If this, plus your sTAmina score, is
greater than, or equal to, the distance, you are
successful. Turn to 203, If not, then you fall to your
death into the chasm.
364-365

364

You land safely. Add 2 t.ucx points. Slowly, men-
acingly, the mist clears, and you see Orghuz’s
Tower: a huge block of stone with one entrance,
surrounded by a wide moat of green slime. On
éach of the four comers stand Gargoyles that snap,
snarl and flap their black wings. The mist begins to
close in agein and you walk towards the tawer-.
Occasionally you pass an Orc, but disappear into
the mist before he decides to challenge you. In the
thick mist you get to the bridge across the moat, past
two Trolls, and stup at a metal door. You may not
use the Bazouk beyond this point. In the grime you
feel this shape:

7
“~~

If you know the secret Cyphers, go to that number.
If not, you look up to see a small, grubby chute. You
must climb up to the hole, holding on to the cracks
between the stone blacks. Throw a die twelve times.
To succeed you will need eight throws of 1 to 4. If
you fail, you fall into the deadly slime. If you
succeed, you climb through the chute and into a
smelly room. Turn to 224.

365
You drop the Sword and watch it sink slowly into
the scorching stream. She motions vou to walk
across. As you do so, Tabasha leaps down and rubs
herself on the woman's leg. The woman searches
you and is obviously disappointed at finding
366-367

nothing of value. Tabasha the Bazouk leaps on to
the woman's shoulder and looks at you. Youcansee
that the Sword has risen out of the stream and is

lying close to the bank. Do you:
Grab the Sword? Turn to 276
Donothing? Turn to 394
Get Tabasha to help
(Only if possible on the
Adventure Sheet}? Turn to11

366
It is the Ore commander. He asks you what you are
doing in an out-of-bounds area, but does not wait
for an answer and then asks you to kneel down
for decapitation. You pull out your Sword.

ORC COMMANDER sxtitz7 sTaminas

If you win, you hear more people coming and you
run into the doorway. Turn io 274.

367

Tum to 16409.

368-371

368
Turn to 38-

369

You set off along the rocky track. Soon the ground
gets soft and then becomes marshy. You have dif-
ficulty walking on the path. Strange, eerie noises
come from the marsh, which occasionally bubbles,
releasing a pungent odour. The path divides. Do
you go to the left (turn to 271), or do you choose the
path on the right (turn to 318)?

379
The door closes behind you. Once ayain you ate in

complete darkness. The Sword does not shine and
you can hear someone moving around in the taom.
Just then, you heat a sword being drawn out of a
scabbard and heavy steps walking towards you-
You prepare to defend yourself.

If you know how to Sensefight, then fight as nor-
mal. Otherwise reduce your $«it1. by 2 for this
combat only.

SILENT WARRIOR  sKILL9

If you win, you find two doors. Do you go through
the door on the left (turn to 40), or the door on the

right (turn to 297)?

STAMINA 10

You are carried across by a Troll. Then you are
unbound and made to trot with the other prisoners
towards a camp of black stone huts within a large
—————————————

372-373

cavern. Smoke rises from most of the buildings
and you pass the remains of a great gate. You
are dumped into a smelly, smoky room. There are
about a dozen Dwarfs and several Gaddon. Altera
time an Orc comes in with a bucket, throws some
slops on the floor and tells you to eat. Eventually
several Ores arrive with small metal collars. They
put them on the Dwarfs and march them away. The
male Gaddon are also taken and you are left with the
remaining Gaddon: a woman of dark looks,
wrapped up in a black cloak. She comes over to you
and asks who youare. Do you tell her (turn to 32), or
keep silent (turn to 126)?

372
The Gryphon strikes, You fight it off with your
Sword. Fight as in normal combat, but if you throw
double 1 in the Gryphon’‘s Attack Round, then the
Gryphon has burnt you with its fiery breath and you
are dead.

GRYPHON
If you win, you head back to the caves. Turn to 189-

SKiLL 8 STAMINA 10

373

You swing to the night. The rope breaks as you land
and you scramble up into the darkness. When you
look around, you see two red dots in the distance.
They are getting nearer and are accompanied by a
Strange buzzing sound. Do you attack (turn
to 248), or do you wish to leap back to the other shaft
(turn to 174)?

374-377

374
The group comes under attack from well-

disciplined troops. There are heavy losses. Test your
Luck. Lf you are Lucky, you survive the first attack
and cut your way through to the second group (tum
to 52). If you are Unlucky, you are killed by a crazed
Troll swinging an enormous battle-axe.

375
Aspra Smoothcheek and the Dwarfs all gct away
with mimor wounds. They run fastand splitinto hvo
§roups. Aspra goes up a steep path. Do vou follow
her (turn to 29), or go with the group that are
sipping through a crack in the tunnel (turn to 329)?

376

You come to a corridor that contains nothing except
2 soit bench. You are tired and hungry. If you have
any Provisions, eat some now (add 4 STAMINA
pois). You feel very sleepy. Do you rest (turn to
128), or do you get up and carry on along the
corridor (turn to 179}?

377
You hear the clash of swords as you run away. You

have no idea of the correct direction and stumble
along making a lot of noise. Suddenly you hear a
¥oice in the dark: ‘Come with me.’ A hand leads you
across the terrain until you are told that youare safe.
The voice belongs to Chorista, Aikis's second-in-
command, and you are in Goyanthian, a Gaddon
settlement. In the pitch-black you recite your story
and Chorista tells you that she is worried: Alkis has
yet to return. You are left to sleep. Turn to 72.
——————EEeEeEeEeEeeE——————=

378-379

373
You feel your way to an a and find yourself on a
ledge above another tunnel. You rest. If you have
Provisions you may choose to have them now. If
not, then add only t STAMINA point,

You wake up to see two torches in the distance,
coming towards you. You creep to the end of the
ledge and see two Ores and a Dark Elf marching a
dozen Dwarfs along the tunnel. All the Dwarfs wear
mictal collars. Suddenly two of the Dwarfs break free
and rush towards you; one immediately seizes his
throat and collapses, the other sees you and raises
his hand for help. The others have still notseen you,
Do you help the Dwarf (turn to 129), or stay hidden
(turn to 245)?

379
Three fanatical Ores mish at you; one slips and falls

off the ledge. Fight the other two in One-Strike
Combat. If you win, you can choose to drop down ta
2 lower ledge (turn to 195), or to take a slope on the
right (turn to 254)?
380-381

You make your way carefully, Sword at the ready,
and nin into a troop of Goblins. Although at first
surprised to see you, they rally and charge. Fight
each in turn.

SKILL STAMINA
First GOBLIN 6 6
Second GOBLIN § 7
Third GOBLIN 5 6

You may escape at any time and rush back to the
Feelbrethren warriors. Deduct 4 $Tasrxa points
and turn to 96. If you win, turn to 59.

381

lt is very smoky inside the Dragon's Breath Inn. As
you stand in the dark corridor, a Goblin comes out
of a door on the nght. He is chewing a large bone.
He looks you up and down, spits, and then enters a
doorin front of you. You catch a glimpse of 2 roaring
fire as he shuts the door behind him. Do you wish ta
go through the door in front of you (furn to 84}, or
prefer to go into the room on your right (tum
to 262)?

382-385

382
You are in a dark, empty cave. There are four exits,
each marked with the familiar ranes. Which do you
choose:

South-west? Turn to 297
South-east? ‘Turn to 359
North-east? Turn to 334
North-west? ‘Turn to 264

383

You stumble along the tunnel for a long time until
you find that it splits in two. The left-hand tunnel
has a dragon's head carved above it. Do you wish to
take this tunnel (turn to 74), or prefer to enter the
tunnel on the night (fun to 187)?

You jump to the left and land on firm ground. The
trench leads away to the side of where the Gobiin
stands. Peeking round the corner, vou see a large
number of Gaddon standing in line, as another
Goblin walks up and down. By their clothes and
condition you guess that they are enslaved. It
appears that the weaker onesare being pulled out of
the line. You notice a stir among the Gaddon ranks
and realize that they must have sensed you. Do you
help them (turn to 176), or ignore them and crawl
away (turn to 259)?

385
lf there are any Khuddam still alive on- your
Adventure Sheet, Orghuz regenerates slowly into the
386-387

guise of another Khuddam. You have a fleeting
chance to strike unopposed at a part of his body.

if all the Khuddam are dead on your Adventure Sheet,
Orghuz stands like a statue in front of you. The
Malice still inhabits his body. You must strike the
lethal blow to rid it of the evil. Where do you strike:

Left shoulder and upper arm? Turn to 38
Right shoulder and upper arm? Turn to 140
Lefi elbow and lower arm? Turn to 46
Right elbow and lower arm? Tum to 330
Left thigh and upper leg? Turn to 266
Right thigh and upper leg? Turn to 342
Left knee and lower leg? Turn to 392
Right knee and lower leg? Turn to 368
386

You strike at Orghuz and he quickly backs away-
You have chosen the correct image. Suddenly he
holds a sword that looks just like yours. “No other
dares ta hold a sword in my presence. You have the
blood of Tancred the Magnificent coursing in your
yeins, and you hold the Twin Sword of Light
but lam still your master. Prepare to die!’ Turn to

309.

387
‘The door opens easily. In the murky darkness, you
discern an Elf —thin, emaciated, chained to the wall,
and whimpering for help. Suddenly the door doses
behind you and the bolt is pushed home. Now,
two plaintive wails will be heard crying for help
down the echoing cornidor. Your quest is over.

388-391

388

You turn down a narrow alleyway between two
rock-built huts. You hear a disturbance behind you,
then the sound of a drum beating, followed by the
clatter of iron-shed Ore feet. You look along the
alley — you can go either to the left (turn to 300) or to
the right (turn to 209).

You put the collar on. You see two evil eyes in front
of you and hear a pounding voice in your mind.
‘There you are! I've got you now, blood heir. Stay
where you are until my Khuddam find you . - .’

390

You peek out of a grubby, fatty gap into a dark room
with two figures seated ata table. One of the people
is wearing armour that looks Gorak-made; the other
wears the dark mail cloak of a Khuddam. You look
carefully at the figure in the armour and can just
make out a symbol of two crossed daggers. Sud-
denly the Khuddam begins to sniff around the
room. It shrieks in your direction. You let go and fall
into the pile of rubbish. Tum to 139,

392

You walk down 2 dusty, echoing cormdor. Ahead,
in the licht of a few lit torches, you see the dust on
the ground disturbed by many footprints. They lead
up a set of stairs to your right. Occasionally, you
hear a low wail. Do you wish to go up the stairs
{furn to 229), or carry on along the corridor (turn
to 22)?
392-393

392
You have struck a lethal blow. There is a bitter

scream and all the mirrors in the room shatter as
Orghuz begins to decay and age. The Malice, which
has kept him alive for so long, leaves his now frail
frame. His flesh crumbles to dust and everything is
swept away by a strong wind. The wind blows
stronger until a screen is blown dawm to reveal vo
Ores and a Goblin frozen in the act of Spellbreaking
the True Shield. You stride forward and grab the
Shield. As you touch it, you see the face of the
wizard Astragal beckoning you_ Your vision begins
to darken. Turn to 238.

393

The tunnel begins to break up. First there are small
tocks to climb over, then large boulders, until it
becomes very difficult to make any headway. As
you climb up and down, you come to a mass of tree
roots interweaved throughout the rest of the tunnel.
You try to cut vour way past, but each blow causes
the roots to ooze sap, which then congeals and
quickly forms another root. You examine the roots
carefully and see three distinct areas through which
you might crawl. Do you choose to head upwards
(furn to 237) or downwards (turn to 255}, or do you
prefer to go to the left (turn to 12)?
394-396

394
You do nothing and bide your time. But you are

dealing with a warrior of evil; she aims her tossbow
and shoots, Throw a die for your position, and a
seoond dic for where the bolt hits. Lf the hyo num-
bers match, heraim is true and you are killed. If not,
then she has missed, but she resets her crossbow
very quickly, Turn to 276.

395
It is useless to try to fight an Earthshaker. They

cannot be killed. lt is also very dangerous to stay
close to one because they movein groups. Suddenly
you see three others blocking your way. You must
try to run past them without being touched. Throw
three dice and list the numbers in sequence — this is
their position. Then throw three more dice and list
them again in sequence. Thisis yourrun past them.
If two numbers in the sequence match, you have
touched one of the Earthshakers and are killed. If
you have a clear run, turn to 149.

396

Turn to 206.

397-398

397
The next room is even more untidy. You notice

square patterns all over the floor. You recall a chil-
dish superstition about stepping on cracks and so
walk carefully. In the distance you see a large de-
caving creature, covered in arrows. Do you head
towards it (turn to 87), or do you give ita wide berth
(turn to 3.48)?

398

You stand and wait. The running noise gets louder
and is accompanied by deep growling. You clasp
your Sword in anticipation when, suddenly, a little
creature with very large feet rushes into your knees.
It looks up at you, its tiny eyes widen, and it curls up
into an armoured ball and rolls into the darkness.
You turn around to face the Dark Elf, sho hits you
across the head. Turn to 123.
, w asi mnnas se?
‘

@ ; ;
-ealtar

399-400

399
Cyphers (the old Gaddon counting system) are a

way for the blind Gaddon to feel certain Spellbound
numbers, which, when whispered, Will open
ancent doors — doors that were built in the heyday
of Feelbrethren culture. The secret has never been
discovered by Orghuz. Look at the sequence of
Cyphers; three rows of three; each raised circle (0)
has a specific value:

Oo-4 O=2
o=,2 o=16
o= 256 o=128 Q

o 49
ll

I
5
64
A blank is indicated by a dot. Add the values of the
Circles to give you the Secret Cypher,
Thus 0.0
o=13 © Theillustrated page gives the
Sic Cyphers from 1 to 12

Return to vour section now.

400
You have succeeded in the quest. The Dark Lord
Orghuz is no more, and the Shield is once again
protecting Gorak from the Malice of the Chasms.
You are hailed as Tancred’s heir and all the Knights
of the Grey Horse swear allegiance to their new
monarch.

FOR THE BEST IN PAPERBACKS, LOOK FOR Tie@))

poses yal al ibs scy Best ping ss

se gs ce rg en tr

sf Pre Ba. Tabapune, anetiond

POV THE

A
AMPIRE
ae

