FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS

Over 10 million copies sold worldwide!

The fate of Vymorna lies in your hands!

For six years Vymortta has been besieged hist

sour itsmisst tall to the evil Licard Men. Day after

day vou fiche alongside vour warweary mother

Khicen Perel, but only divine assistance can seve
Yor Ow

i
LIVINGSTONE |

=

-

_ ANOLSONIATI NVI GNV
NOSMOVIFAAELS

Thets the grove Lord Telak appears ino decam. YOU
are the one chosen to week Gar the weapon which
Will aid you and your city apaitist the dark farces
Your missitm will be fraught with danper but vou
must succeed... YOU are Vymorna’s only hope!

Part story, patt game, thes je a bouk in which YOU

become the her! Two dice, a pencil and an eraser

are Mi) you aéed YOU -deewde which roures ce talce,
Which dangers to risk and which foes vo fizhe

M apelqoped

Cover iNeastratom by David Gullhivher

-IOEHE

1$8N 0-14-032412-?

MN

|
:
9 "780140"324129

i zierm

rLU NSS!

i _

PUFFIN BOOKS
BATTLEBLADE WARRIOR

After six years of constant bombardment from the forces of the
mighty Lizard Man Empire, your beloved city of Vymorna lies
in ruins, yet its battered and war-weary troops still hoid out.
Fighting alongside your mother, Queen Perriel,,you know the
situation is desperate. It is surely a matter of time before the city
must fall into the hands of evil . . . unless the divine powers
come to its aid.

Then the great Lord Telak, god of courage, appears in a dream.
YOU are the one chosen to carry out the mission to bring
victory to your people, Only YOU can seek out the weapon
which will aid you and your city against the dark forces, Your
mission will take you through enemy lines and will be fraught
with danger but you must succeed. YOU are Vymorna’s last
chance .

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you need to embark on
this thrilling adventure, which is complete with its elaborate
combat system and a score sheet to record your gains and
losses.

Many dangers lie ahead and your success is by no means
certain. YOU decide which routes to follow, which dangers to
risk and which adversaries to fight!

Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks

THE WARIOCK OF FIRETOP
MOUNTAIN

THE CITADEL OF CHAOS

THE FOREST GF DOOM

STARSHIP TRAVELLER

CITY OF THIEVES

DEATHTRAP DUNGEON

ISLAND OF THE LI7ARD KING

SCORPION SWAMP

CAYERNS OF THE SNOW WITCH

HOUSE OF JLELL

[ALISMAN OF DEATH

SPACE ASSASSIN

FREEWAY FIGHTER

TEMPLE OF TERROR

THE RINGS OF KETHER

SEAS OF BLOOD

APPOINIMENT WITHFEAR

REBEL PLANET

DEMONS OF THE DEEP
SWORD OF THE SAMURAT
TRIAL OF CHAMPIONS
ROBOT COMMANDO
MASKS OF MAYHEM
CREATURE OF HAVOC
BENEATH NIGHTMARE CASTLL
CRYPT OF TITE SORCERER
STAR STRIDER
PHANTOMS OF FEAR
MIDNIGHT ROGUE
CHASMS OF MALICE
BATTLEBLABDE WARRIOR
SLAVFS OF THE ABYSS
SKY LORD

STEALER OF SOULS
DAGGERS OF DARKNESS
AKXMIES OF DEA] H
PORTAL OF LVIL

VAULT OF THE VAMPIRE

Steve Jackson’s Sorcery!

1. The Shamutanti Hills

2, Kharé — Cityport of Traps
3. The Seven Serpentis

4. The Crown of Kings

FIGHTING FANTASY ~ The Introductory Role-playing Game

THE REDDLING REAVER

OUT OF THE PIT — Fighting Fantasy Monsters
TITAN — The Fighting Fantasy World

Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone
present:

BATTLEBLADE
WARRIOR

by Marc Gascoigne

Illustrated by Alan Langford

Puffin Books

PUFFIN BOOKS

Published by the Penguin Group
27 Wrights Lane, London ws 51z, England
Viking Penguin Inc , 40 West 23rd Streel, New York, New Yark 10010, USA
Penguin Books Australia Ltd, Ringwood, Victoria, Australia
Penguin Books Canada Ltd, 2801 John Street, Markham, Ontano, Canada 138 184
Penguin Books (NZ) Lid, 182-190 Wairau Road, Auckland 10, New Zealand

Pengum Books Ltd, Registered Offices: Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England

First published 1988
3579106864

Concept copynght © Steve Jackson and Tan Livimgstone, 1988
Text copynght © Mare Gascoigne, 1988
Ulustrations copynght © David Gallagher, 1988
All nghts reserved

Printed and bound in Great Britain by
Cox & Wyman Ltd, Reading
Filmset in Linotron Palatino by
Rowland Phototypesetting Ltd
Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk

Except in the United States of Amenica,
this book 1s sold subject ta the condition
thal it shall not, by way of trade or othenwise,
be lent, resold, hired out, or otherwise circulated
withoul the publisher's prior consent in any form of
binding or cover other than that in which iL 1s
published and without a similar condition
including this condition being imposed
on the subsequent purchaser

For Bob N., Maggie S., Kevin W. and Stephen K.,
and all the staff at Greylight Industries plc,
for all the fun they're giving me.
CONTENTS

YOUR CHARACTER
9

HINTS ON PLAY
16

ADVENTURE SHEET
18

VYMORNA BESIEGED!
21

BATTLEBLADE WARRIOR
27

YOUR CHARACTER

You are about to embark on a momentous quest that
will decide the fate of not just yourself but a whole
city, and possibly an entire country. Before embark-
ing on your great adventure, you must first deter-
mine your own strengths and weaknesses. Use dice
to discover your Initial scores. On pages 18-19 there
is an Adventure Sheet which you may use to record
the details of an adventure. Onit you will find boxes
for recording your SKILL, STAMINA and LUCK
scores.

You are advised either to record your scores on the
Adventure Sheet in pencil, or to make photocopies of
the sheet for use in future adventures.

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter this
total in the SKILL box on the Adventure Sheet.

Roll two dice. Add 12 to the number rolled and enter
this total in the srAMINA box.

There is also a LUCK box. Roll one die, add 6 to this
number and enter this total in the Luck box.

For reasons that will be explained below, sxILL,
STAMINA and LUCK scores change constantly

9
ne  —OEO Sr eee

during an adventure. You must keep an accurate
record of these scores and for this reason you are ad-
vised either to write small in the boxes, or to keep an
eraser handy. But never rub out your Initial scores.

Although you may be awarded additional sK1L1,
STAMINA and LUCK points, these totals may never
exceed your Initial scores, except on very rare occa-
sions, when you will be instructed on a particular

Page.

Your SKILL score reflects your swordsmanship and
general fighting expertise; the higher the better.
Your STAMINA score reflects your general constitu-
tion, your will to survive, your determination and
your overall fitness; the higher your STAMINA
score, the longer you will be able to survive. Your
LUCK score indicates how naturally lucky a person
you are; it may only be through good luck that you
survive! Luck - and magic - are facts of life in the
war-torn lands of Southern Allansia through which
you will soon be travelling.

10

Battles

You will often come across pages in the book which
instruct you to fight an opponent of some sort. An
option to flee may be given, but if not — or if you
choose to attack the opponent anyway — you must
resolve the battle as described below.

First record your opponent’s SKILL and STAMINA
scores in the first vacant Encounter Box on your
Adventure Sheet. The scores for each opponent are
given in the book each time you have an encounter.

The sequence of combat is then:

1. Roll both dice once for your opponent. Add its
SKILL score. This total is your opponent's Attack
Strength.

2. Roll both dice once for yourself. Add the number
rolled to your current SKILL score. This total is
your Attack Strength.

3. If your Attack Strength is higher than that of your
opponent, you have wounded it: proceed to step
4. If your opponent’s Attack Strength is higher
than yours, it has wounded you: proceed to step
5. If both Attack Strength totals are the same, you
have avoided each other’s blows — start the next
Attack Round from step 1 above.

11

4. You have wounded your opponent, so subtract 2
points from its STAMINA score. You may use
your LUCK here to do additional damage (see
over).

5. Your opponent has wounded you, so subtract 2
points from your own STAMINA score. Again
you may use LUCK at this stage (see over).

6, Make the appropriate adjustments to either your
Opponent’s or your Own STAMINA score (and
your LUCK score if you used LUCK - see over).

7. Begin the next Attack Round by returning to
your current SKILL score and repeating steps
1-6. This sequence continues until the sraMINA
score of either you or your opponent has been
reduced to zero (death).

Fighting More Than One Opponent

If you are involved in a fight with more than one
opponent, at the start of each Attack Round you
must decide which single opponent to attack. After
choosing one, roll both dice to determine the Attack

12

Strength of all the combatants individually. Resolve
your own attack against your chosen opponent as
usual. Next, compare your current Attack Strength
with those of al! your other opponents except the
one you've just fought. Any opponent with a higher
Attack Strength than yours will score a hit against
you, with the usual loss of 2 STAMINA points.
Remember: you can score hits only against the oppo-
nent you chose at the start of the round.

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either in
battles or when you come across situations in which
you could either be Lucky or Unlucky (details of
these are given on the pages themselves), you may
call on your Luck to make the outcome more
favourable. But beware! Using Luck is a risky busi-
ness and if you are Unlucky, the results could be
disastrous.

The procedure for using your LUCKis as follows: roll
two dice. If the number rolled is equal to or less than
your current LUCK score, you have been Lucky and
the result will go in your favour. If the number
rolled is higher than your current LUCK score, you
have been Unlucky and you will be penalized.

This procedure is known as Testing your Luck. Each
time you Test your Luck, you must subtract 1 point
from your current LUCK score. Thus you will soon
realize that the more you rely on your Luck, the
more risky this will become.

13

ey | ee

Using Luck in Battles

On certain pages of the book you will be told to Test
your Luck and will be told the consequences of your
being Lucky or Unlucky. However, in battles you
always have the option of using your LUCK either to
inflict a more serious wound on an opponent you
have just wounded, or to minimize the effects of a
wound your opponent has just inflicted on you!

If you have just wounded the opponent, you may
Test your Luck as described above. If you are Lucky
you have inflicted a severe wound and may subtract
an extra 2 points from the opponent’s sTAMINA
score. However, if you are Unlucky the wound was
a Mere graze and you must restore 1 point to your
Opponent’s STAMINA (1. instead of scoring the
normal 2 points of damage you have now scored
only 1).

If your opponent has just wounded you, you may
Test your Luck to try to minimize the wound. If you
are Lucky you have managed to avoid the full

14

damage of the blow. Restore 1 point of STAMINA
{i.e. instead of doing 2 points of damage it has done
only 1). If you are Unlucky, you have taken a more
serious blow. Subtract 1 extra STAMINA point.

Remember that you must subtract 1 point from your
own LUCK score each time you Test your Luck.

HINTS ON PLAY

Skill

As you are already a battle-hardened warrior with
many fights behind you in defence of your besieged
city, your SKILL score is above average. It will not
change much during your adventure, and you may
only change it if specifically instructed. As SKILLisa
measure of combat prowess, it can be reduced, for
instance by losing your weapon or by the effects of
something like poison. Acquiring an enchanted
weapon could increase your SKILL — but remember
that you can only use one weapon at a time.

Stamina

Your STAMINA will change more frequently as your
journey continues, as you suffer wounds and ex-
haustion and then, hopefully, recover. At various
times you will be given opportunities to eat some of
the supplies you carry with you. Eating 1 Provision
restores up to 4 STAMINA points; you may eat only 1
Provision at a time, even though you may have
more (you can carry up to 4 Provisions at any one
time). Your STAMINA may never exceed its Initial
value.

16

Luck

The eyes of the gods are upon you in your quest.
Your patrons will! attempt to help you, but their
rivals will set deadly enemies and traps in your path
to thwart their plans. You will need to use your
LUCK wisely and sparingly if you are to survive and
vanquish the forces of Evil. There may be occasions
when your LUCK will improve and you can recover
some points, but the score may never exceed its
Initial value.

Getting Started

Read the introductory tale, which begins on page
21, then turn to paragraph 1. It is recommended that
you make notes and draw a map as you travel.
There is a way of successfully completing the quest
that involves only minimal risk of failure or death,
but you will need all your sKILL~and LUCK~to find
it. Be warned: the object of your quest is never fully
revealed to you, so to be successful you must make
use of the clues presented to you to deduce just
what it is you need to find.

17

ADVENTURE SHEET

SKILL STAMINA LUCK
Initial Initial Initial
Skill = Stamina = Luck =
ITEMS OF SPECIAL ITEMS
EQUIPMENT
CARRIED

PROVISIONS

REMAINING

MONSTER ENCOUNTER BOXES

Skill = Skill = Skill =
Stamina = Stamina = Stamina =
| Skill = Skill = Skill =
Stamina * Stamina = Stamina =
:
)
L
Sill « Skill = Skill =
| Stamina = Stamina = Stamina =
L
Skill = Skill = Skilf =
Stamina = Stamina = Stamina =

VYMORNA BESIEGED!

As the might of the Lizard Man Empire smashed
like an ocean breaker against its walls once more,
the besieged city of Vymorna shuddered - but held.
Along the ragged lines of its shattered walls desper-
ate men and women fought, though they were
dying on their feet. Their energy sapped by six years
of starvation and malnutrition, the battered troops
held firm through sheer will-power. For every pace
the reptilian troops gained, the defenders vowed a
hundred lizard corpses would lie. But the Lizard
Men could bear such losses, and more, for the might
of the Lizard King’s armies was colossal. Soon, very
soon, the evil humanoids would break Vymorna’s
last ring of defences, even if they had to dismantle
the city stone by stone, brick by brick. The Empire of
the Lizard Kings would not rest until all the lands of
Southern Allansia were ensnared under its cruel
dominion.

‘a

—
‘~ — “sty
a ape SS nd
OW ‘A

Inside the City

All this you know, for your mother is Queen Perniel,
the lion-hearted woman who now commands
Vymorna’s defences. Your father, Alexandros the
Second, was struck down by a poisoned javelin in a
counter-attack to keep the reptilian hordes from the
outer wall of the castle at the centre of the city. His

21

NS. OEE eee

death made a warrior of your mother, but this, and
years of constant bombardment, has changed her
beyond belief. Where once she was beauty and
grace, she is now thin-lipped sternness, her eyes
red-ringed through lack of sleep and the side-effects
of her sorcerous searches for supernatural aid.
Night after night the Queen pleads with the gods
and their servants for divine help against the over-
whelming odds, and each night she receives no
answer. Itis as if there is a war in the heavens as well
as on Titan, and the forces of Evil and Chaos are
winning there, too.

Your father’s death also made a warrior of you, and
now you ride into battle alongside your mother.
Between raids and wall duties you help tend the
sick, arrayed in rows in the Great Hall of the castle.
There are wounded warriors by the score, but alsoa
great many women and children, injured by flying
missiles or simply suffering from malnutrition.
Food is now very scarce and strictly rationed, and it
is only owing to good planning that it has lasted so
long.

Troubled Dreams

What is perhaps worse than the lack of food is the
constant lack of sleep. It would be hard enough to
sleep, anyway, with the bombardment of rocks and
exploding balls of sulphur, but each night the
enemy conjure up spirits and demons, which how]
around the towers of the castle until dawn. Their

22

;

screaming, often joined by sorcerous thunder and
lightning, would keep all but the most desperately
tired awake.

However on this night even you sleep. You spent
most of the evening helping to put outa massive fire
blazing in the south tower of the castle, started by a
flaming brand, which had hurtled into the city from
one of the many giant catapults stationed just out of
reach of the city’s archers. When the fire was out
you didn’t bother returning to your quarters in the
main keep, but just found an empty corner, pulled
your stained cloak over yourself and slept.

Dawn breaks and you awake, savouring the
warmth of your corner and the light on your eyes
before opening them. But the castle is somehow
different. You lie still for a moment, before sitting
up with a start. There’s nothing but silence! Every-
where is quiet, so quiet you can hear your breath
coming in short gulps as you rub the sleep from
your eyes with your dirty fists to find yourself alone
in a comer of the Inner Hall. Ail you can see are the
bare, rubble-strewn flagstones, the first traces of
weeds poking up between them as if stretching for
the sunlight, which beams through the gaps in the
shattered roof. ‘By Telak’s golden sword!’ you ex-
claim aloud, using the oath your mother always
forbade you to utter in those far-off days before the
siege. The siege! you remember. The siege . . . and
Mother! What in the name of all the heavens is going
on?

*

:

‘Indeed you may ask,’ comes a voice from behind
you. You spin round and look up in wonder. Atop
the ruined wall above you stands a glowing figure, a
hefty warrior armed for battle and clad in brilliant
golden armour. About his feet stalks a lion, which
must be fully grown though it is dwarfed by the
radiant figure. ‘Know you not who I am, my child?
You called on me just a moment ago, though in
truth I was here awaiting you,’ the warrior intones
in a voice that rumbles like thunder round a distant
mountain. His gleaming emerald eyes stare deep
into yours, flashing with supernatural power.

The Task of Telak

You drop to your knees, more out of amazement
than respect, for you know now that the figure
before you is Telak, the Swordbearer, Lord of Cour-
age and patron of all who bear arms against Evil.
‘My lord,’ you stammer, ‘what would you have of
me?’

‘Do not be afraid,’ rumbles the heavenly voice, ‘for
you must listen carefully to what I tell you. The dark
forces that oppose both of us are gathering for a final
assault. Even as I speak, demonic legions begin to
batter at the gates of my ethereal palace, just as they
batter at the very doors of yours. What is needed is
an Earthly victory against Evil, and soon, to divert
the Lizard King’s deathless masters away from my
door so I can properly come to Vymorna’s aid.

‘Know you of a place called the Durtelakin, Telak’s
24

Mount? It is one of twin peaks in the Lion Heights,
far to the north-east of Vymorna. You must go there
and find a weapon which will aid you and your city
against Evil. Seek out the man they cali Laskar.’ The
golden warrior’s voice fades, as if his attention were
elsewhere, and the lion at his legs growls. ‘I must
depart to secure my own gates. Go, and serve me
well, Wheresoever I can I will aid you, for you are a
warrior now, and under my protection.’

The golden warrior and his lion fade away. . .anda
rough hand is shaking you awake. Through the
musty gloom of the Inner Hail you can see others
rising and shaking themselves. From all around you
comes the sound of coughing, stamping, chatter-
ing, mingled with the distant sounds of battle.

The Mission

‘It is decided, then. All the omens are with you. You
must depart as soon as you are able.’ Your mother
looks stern, but you know from her eyes that she
is dreading your Jeaving on such a dangerous
mission. Around the room, everyone shares Queen
Perriel’s mingled look of trepidation and resolve,
but all nod their heads at the decision. ‘You will
leave a few hours before dawn, to give you the best
chance of crossing through the enemy’s encamp-
ment. In the darkness you may be able to pass
through their lines, though I still fear for you.’

‘I was chosen, Mother,’ you state simply, and leave
to prepare for your journey. Turn to 1.

25

eS |
1
Dawn is not far away. All night the bombardment of
the city has continued, but somehow you managed
to rest and relax a little in preparation for your
journey. Now, with the moon set and the first few
glimmers of light on the horizon, you are in the
secluded room of your mother, Queen Perriel, mak-
ing your final preparations for your journey, You
are dressed in sturdy clothes, but with minimal
armour so you can move quickly. You have a strong
cloak to protect you from the elements and to keep
you wamm at night. There is a large rucksack filled
with supplies (4 Provisions), and your trusty sword
and hunting-knife.

While you are getting ready, the Queen goes to a
chest and pulls three items from it. ‘These belonged
to your father,’ she says, ‘and 1 know he would want
them to be put to good use.’ You may take two of the
objects by going to the appropriate paragraphs;
make a note of those you choose on your Adventure
Sheet. There are a bow and three silvered arrows
(turn to 13), a bottle containing a pale liquid (turn to
388), and a small glass globe filled with a swirling
cloud of dust specks (turn to 31).

2-3

2

At the bottom of the steps, you have arrived in
another old and very dusty room, littered again
with small pieces of rubble from its cracked ceiling
and wails. In a far corner what may be a statue or
perhaps a fountain casts grotesque shadows in the
lantern-light. Do you take one of the dark passages
that lead off to the left (turn to 255) and to the right
(turn to 271), or do you examine the statue or
fountain (turn to 35)?

Your hunting-knife slashes out and cuts away part
of the web. Pulling yourself upright, you are faced
by the Wasp Spider. You have no time to find your
sword, and must defend yourself with your knife.

WASP SPIDER SKILL 6

If the Wasp Spider scores a hit against you, do not
deduct the normal 2 stAMIN4 points. Instead, roll
one die and lose as many STAMINA points as the
result of your roll. The bite of the Wasp Spider is
highly poisonous! If you succeed in beating the
- venomous Spider, turn to 356.

STAMINA 2

You walk to the top of the stairs and peer down.
They seem very steep, and it is very dark down
there. Then you draw back hurriedly, for you are
sure you heard voices down there. Yes, there they
are again: Lizard Men! You run for the other steps
and leap up them quickly, hearing the clatter of the
enemy’s boots on the flagstones in the distance
behind you. You come toa door, and once you have
gone through, it slams shut behind you, In alarm
you notice there is no lock, and gazing around you
realize there is nothing to bar it with either, In blind
terror you race down the corridor, pausing only
long enough to notice that it is lined on either side
by barred cells, until you reach another doar at the
farend, You kick at it —and it holds firm. It's locked!
Your heart sinks. Will you continue trying to force it
(turn to 321) or look for a key (turn to 264)?

5-6

5

You trip on a statue’s arm and knock over your
lantern. It goes out, plunging the room into pitch-
darkness. You are surely doomed! You hear the
strange shadow-creatures howl near by, but then
they seem to be moving away from you. Their cries
grow quieter until you are left in total silence again.
Of course! If they are creatures of shadow, they
won't be very strong without a light to give them
substance! You paw about and find the lantern, and
the two jets from the statue’s eyes. Without lighting
the lantern, you creep across the room, hoping that
the Shadow Ghouls have definitely gone. You reach
the far passage and head up it. When you feel you
have put enough distance between yourself and the
room you pause to calm your ragged nerves, and to
light your lantern. You are alone; add 1 LucxK point.
Walking on, you come to a new set of stairs, twisted
and crumbling, which lead down. Turn to 152.

6

A horrendous grinding, crashing sound rends the
air as your boat is torn in two. A split second before
it is engulfed you dive into the water. Holding your
breath, you try to swim away to surface safely, but
the water is very turbulent as the galley sails above
you. A great oar sweeps towards you, knocking the
air from your lungs. Immediately you’re gulping
water and choking. . . drowning. . . dead.

7
Your tortured imagination can bear it no longer.

Your nerve snaps and you turn and flee into the
mist, but the voices and faces are all around you.
You clutch your head and scream but no sound
comes out. Dead faces loom out of the mist; swords
and axes wielded by skeletal hands scythe the air
around you. You fall to your knees in sheer terror.
The roar of battle is ali around. Metal clashes on
metal and bone; screams and curses how] in your
ears. The grinning death’s-head faces of warriors
long dead close in around you. Soon you will join
their legion. Your quest is at an end.

8-9

8

You barge into the nearest tent, and are stopped in
your tracks by a very rupulsive sight! A Lizard
Woman is reclining in her tent amid the myriad
smells emanating from the burning incense pots,
the luxurious slime bath and her own foul body.
You are quite overpowered, but you know you
must do something before she can react. Will you
turn and run from the tent (turn to 319), say some-
thing (turn to 254) or attack her (turn to 149)?

The following morning you rise with the dawn,
feeling more refreshed and relaxed than you have in
a very long while. Thoughts of the journey still
ahead linger, though, and so it is with a sad smile
that you bid farewell to White-eye and plunge into
the thick jungle, hacking a path with your knife. The
sun is soon high and it becomes desperately hot.
The sweat drips from you as you slowly carve a path
through the tangled undergrowth. By noon you
have made good headway. As you travel you pick
up more Provisions (up to the maximum of 4). After
another hour or so you stop in the shade of a large
tree and eat (deduct 1 Provision and recover
STAMINA as usual). Suitably refreshed, you press
on. Turn to 94.

10-11

10

An enormous green-skinned Hobgoblin leaps at
you from the mélée. Rabid and foaming at the
mouth with blood-lust brought on by the battle, the
foul creature yells a war-cry and swings his huge
nail-studded mace at you!

HOBGOBLIN
FANATIC SKILL 7

if it scores two consecutive hits against you, turn to
306. If you score two consecutive hits, or kill the
Hobgoblin, roll a die. If you roll 1-2, turn to 322;
3-4, turn to 187; 5-6, turn to 192.

STAMINA 6

56
You tell White-eye the whole story, leaving out
nothing. He frowns with anxiety as he hears of the
siege, looks deeply interested in the account of your
dream, and seems at times thrilled and horrified by
the tale of your quest so far. You feel comfortable
here, and talk far into the night. Your narrative is
disturbed by animal howls from outside the cara-
van, but the old man calms you. ‘Don’t fret: friends
protect us. We cannot be harmed here.’ You resume
your tale. When it is finally at an end, White-eye
leans forward in his chair and says, ‘I have some
news regarding this Laskar whom you seek. Ido not

I2

give freely, but I will gladly trade with you.’ You
cannot trade your father’s things, but you may have
something else to exchange. What can you trade?

Black lotus essence Turn to 249
Cloth o’ gold Turn to 49
A mace Turn to 129
An Orc charm Turn to 256
A phial of purple liquid Turn to 344
A small panther idol Turn to 389

If you have nothing, or if you do not wish to trade,
turn to 111.

12
You steer your small boat for mid-stream. The sun is
already making the air humid, and a thin haze of
steamy mist sits on the cooler water. You could
avoid the mist by steering for the north shore (turn
to 295) or continue in mid-stream (turn to 60).

a | es

13-14

13

The bow is made from finely worked bone, and has
a great many charms and sigils carved into it. Its
three silvered arrows are turned to perfection, and
you know that whenever you fire one you will be
almost guaranteed of hitting and destroying your
target. (Note down the bow and three arrows on
your Adventure Sheet; every time you use an arrow
you must cross it off.) If you have another item to
choose, turn to 31 for the swirling globe or turn to
388 for the phial of liquid. If you now have your two
items, turn to 361.

14

You carefully push the dust-hardened curtain out of
the way with your sword, revealing a circular cham-
ber with an exit on its far wall. Cut into the walls on
either side are dozens of narrow shelves, each one
occupied by a body. These catacombs are very
ancient, and many of the bodies have decomposed
to skeletons, which look quite grisly in the flickering
lantern-light. Gingerly you poke one of the cada-
vers, but nothing untoward happens. Do you move
on (turn to 297) or investigate further (turn to 351)?

15-16

15
Did you think that creatures such as these would
bow down in servitude to a priest of Telak? These
are the servants of Chaos! Turn to 70.

16

An incredibly hot sheet of flame explodes upwards
into the sky, carrying with it the screams of dying
Lizard Men. You turn away disgusted: surely it isn’t
right to fight in such a way? Lecarte, itseems, has no
qualms - he’s leaping up and down, cheering and
veiling, with Snag capering round him. Leading
Lecarte’s horse by the reins, you set off on foot for
Capra. Turn to 89. :

17-18

17
Covered by your cloak, you lie in the soft under-
growth and wait for sleep to come. The moon rises
between the trees as you lie listening to the croaks,
whistles and chirps of the jungle’s nocturnal inhabi-
tants until you fall asleep. Turn to 219.

18
You scurry along the trench, keeping your head
down to avoid being spotted. Suddenly you hear a
loud, brash laugh from above you. You peer up, to
see a huge Two-headed Lizard Man looking down
at you from the side of the trench, brandishing a
long, curving sword. There’s no chance to use your
bow, if you have it. You can leap out and attack him
{turn to 30), or grab his foot and try to pull him down
into the trench (turn to 62).

19-20

19

You land with a bump a moment later and your
lantern goes out. You reach out for it and recoil! You
touched something scaly that wriggled under your
hand! Leaping back flat against the wall, you find
your lantern again, and hastily light it. Oh, Telak!
Snakes — black, viper-like snakes. Your mind races
in panic as your horrified eyes scan the room. There
is a large pile of rags and rubbish in the corner
nearest you, and a passage leading off from the wall
opposite you. Will you try to reach the exit (turn to
179) or the rags (turn to 110)?

20

The Krell you are chasing drops your sword and
scampers off, swinging up into the branches with
dextrous ease. It swings there, chattering and
screaming, mocking you in a playful fashion. You
retrieve your sword, gather up your things and
move on. Turn to 221.
21-22

21

‘Come on!’ shouts the man, pulling you with him as
if you had no choice in the matter. You glance back
over your shoulder. The Lizard Men have stopped
at the edge of the copse, as if afraid to venture into it.
A little further in, you come to a clearing. Tethered
here are a horse and a small pony, both apparently
grazing. As you approach them the pony lifts its
head and you halt. It is not a pony at all but a
Sabre-toothed Tiger! ‘Easy, Snag,’ says the stranger.
‘Look, fresh lizard!’ If you have your father’s bow,
turn to 284; otherwise, turn to 98.

22 .

You hail the travellers, greeting them cordially.
There is no reply: they sit motionless on their
mounts, who regard you with cold, lizard eyes. A
chill breeze springs up, and you give a quick
shudder. ‘What's the matter? Have you lost your
tongues?’ you cry. Turn to 247.

23-25

23

Through sheer momentum you have bludgeoned a
way through the enemy lines, and many of your
fellow warriors are with you. Pausing only to slash
stray Swamp Goblins and panicked Lizard Men out
of your way, you race on. A frightened riding lizard
skitters across your path and you manage to grab its
bridle and stop it. The enemy are regrouping behind
you. If you are to escape you must go now. Do you
want to try to ride the lizard (turn to 59) or escape on
foot (turn to 144)?

24
They seem to be waiting, too, sitting motionless on

their steeds. The peculiar lizards look at you both
with cold, emotionless eyes. You shudder, and
Katya does, too, as a chill of foreboding grips your
body. And then, without a word or sign from their
riders, the lizards start to move slowly towards you.
Turn to 247.

25
Gathering all your strength, you give a sudden
surge and burst from the web. In its anger the Wasp
Spider stings you as you jump up, knocking it flying
into the undergrowth. Roll one die: deduct as many

STAMINA points as the result of the roll —- the bite of —

the Wasp Spider is highly poisonous and often
deadly, If you survive the sting you rest awhile,
before staggering in the direction of the river to
wash and refresh yourself. Turn to 356.

26-27

26

The massive Lizard Man Champion looks down at
vou from his bloodied perch, sneers an ugly sneer,
and leaps to join battle with you. He is using his
ziant axe as his main weapon, but also attacks witha
huge pointed dagger (treat it as a second opponent
with the same SKILL value as the axe ~ if you lose to
it, you take damage; otherwise you hold it off).

LIZARD MAN
CHAMPION

If he scores three hits against you, turn to 96. If
by some good fortune you defeat, or kill, the
Champion, turn to 166.

fed

—

SKILL 12 STAMINA 18

27

Keeping the dark, forbidding tangle of the jungle
always on your right hand, you decide to head
northwards. Away to the west is the southern ex-
tent of the Axehead Plain; as you gaze out over
it you notice that something is burning on the
norizon. Could it be Vymorna? No, it’s too far
north, you decide; it must be somewhere else under
attack. You peer further south but cannot pick out
the city from the haze. Will you keep heading north
turn to 331), or change your mind and head directly
east (turn to 175)?

28-30

28
Howling for vengeance for his treachery you leap at
Laskar. The old man looks momentarily frightened,
but parries your blow easily, knocking you aside.
The Lizard Men surround you, their swords raised
for the final blows, which you know must come.
Your adventure is over.

29
You run down the rough-walled passage before
emerging in a much wider, very dusty tunnel that
leads off both to the left and to the right. After some
consideration you choose to go right and follow the
passage as it leads down a shallow slope and into a
large room. The room is empty of life, but features a
row of large stone slabs that look (from the red
patches splattered on them) as if they were used
for dissecting bodies or some similarly gruesome
activity. Around the walls lie the shards of smashed
pots and vases, but most seem to be filled with ashes
— you dare not think of what! Passages lead off
straight ahead (turn to 357) and to the left (turn to

385).

30
The Lizard Man swings his sword at you as you
clamber out of the trench, scoring an instant hit
(deduct 2 STAMINA points).

TWO-HEADED

LIZARD MAN SKILL 9 STAMINA 8

If you defeat him, you may sneak away among the
tents of the Lizard Man camp (turn to 294).

31-33

31

The globe contains fragments of crystal from pet-
tified glow-worms. All you need do is shake the
globe, which will light up, slowly fading after about
five minutes. If you have another item to choose,
turn to 388 for the phial of liquid, or turn to 13 for the
bow and arrows. If you already have two items, turn
to 361.

32

The ruins turn into those of the ancient docks of
Vymorna. All around you are warehouses and
boatyards, once bustling with trade, now shattered
and empty. You move on. Will you keep to the
alleyways (turn to 203), or sneak through the ware-
house ruins (turn to 261)?

There is no sign of anyone who might have built the
platform, nor any indication of why it should be
here at all. A rickety rope-bridge overgrown with
vines and creepers leads off between the trees to
another platform a fair distance away. You are
steeling yourself to cross it when you notice a
knotted creeper hanging down from higher up one
of the immense trees. Will you take the bridge (turn
t© 199) or climb the rope (turn to 243)?

34-35

34
The Tyrannosaurus Rex sees the Triceratops and
bellows its rage. Leaping down the slope it grabs its
huge opponent and attacks.
SKILL STAMINA

TYRANNOSAURUS

REX 3 attacks 14 19
TRICERATOPS ~ 2attacks 12 18

You may fight the battle out if you wish, but by the
time it is over you are well away fromit. Turn to 76.

35
itis a fountain, with a small statue of Telak pouring

water into a shallow bowl. The water that trickles
out, though, seems very dark. You catch some in
your hand and examine it in the light of your
lantern. Oh, Telak! It isn’t water at all — it’s blood!
What evil has poisoned this place? You hurry from
the room — you may go left (turn to 255) or right (turn

_ A ; y ( “4
==" re 5 ts pe

36

36
With howls of war-cries and the clash of metal on
metal, battle is joined. You should fight it out. The
Lizard Men attack in twos, and their opponents are
Snag, Lecarte and yourself. The combatants each

have the following profile:

SKILL STAMINA
LIZARD MEN each 8 7
LECARTE 11 14
SNAG 12 8

Snag can make two attacks, but only on the same
opponent. Any Lizard Men not involved in a fight
will attempt to fire arrows into one of the battles.
First, determine which battle they are aiming at,
then roll one die. If you roll a 1, the arrow hits a
Lizard Man; if you roll a 6, the arrow hits you or one
of your allies. For each hit, deduct 1 STAMINA
point. Eventually the skirmish will be over. If you
win you may head for the relative safety of Capra.
Turn to 89.

37-38

37
You sneak up to the dozing aviator — and hit him

across the head with the flat of your sword! He falls
to the floor and lies still. Your troubles aren’t over
yet, though, as the Pterodactyl saw what happened
and has taken fright. It’s squawking and screeching
fit to bust. Shouts come from the tents behind you.
You must escape quickly. Will you leap on to the
Pterodactyl and fly out of the camp (turn to 387)? Or
would you rather put your trust in a riding lizard
(turn to 146)?

38

You rest awhile, letting your panic subside and
getting your breath back, before moving on. You
prise open the door to reveal a short corridor, which
leads to yet another door — does this place never
end? You creep the length of the corridor and listen
at the door, but hear nothing except the sound of
gently running water. You force the door and
almost slip sideways, for this room is at a very
bizarre angle. More importantly, the door opposite
you is behind a large gout of dark water, which is
flowing through wide cracks in the wall and ceiling.
Carefully, trying to avoid the flow, you move to the
door. Turn to 82.

39~40

39
Voices and faces surround you, swirling in the mist.

You grit your teeth and try to stand firm. The battle
rages on. With wide eyes and an ever-increasing
sense of terror you stare at the ghostly warriors, all
bedecked in ancient armour, their fleshless skulls
grinning like death’s heads as they fight on. You
must do something about this. Will you command
these visions to depart in the name of Telak (turn to
299), in the name of your illustrious ancestors (turn
to 232), or stay where you are and watch (turn to 7)?

40

Roll two dice. If you roll equal to or below your
SKILL score, turn to 339. If you roll above your
SKILL score, turn to 109.

41

The passageway, strewn with dust and rubble like
so much of this underground maze, continues for a
while, and then turns to the right. At the corner,
though, you stop, for the tunnel ends in a wall of
rubble-a dead end. Will you attempt to dig through
the wall (turn to 128), or would you rather retrace
your steps and take the exit on the left (hum to 125),
or try the tunnel (turn to 67)?

42
This healing draught will cure some of your

wounds. Each time you take it (you may do so
twice), roll one die, add 2 to the number you roll and
recover as many STAMINA points. Bear in mind that
your STAMINA score may not exceed its Initial level.
You may take the draught at any time, providing
you are not doing something strenuous like fighting
or running, and that you are not restrained, tied up
or in any way kept from making a normal action.
Now return to the paragraph you came from.

43-44

43
The huddled shapes stand upright, revealing them-

selves to be three Rat Man engineers. They squeaka
challenge and draw their shortswords. Luckily the
trench is so narrow you need fight only one at a
time. The first one leaps for you.

SKILL STAMINA
First RAT MAN 5 6
Second RAT MAN 6 6
Third RAT MAN 6 5

If you defeat the Rat Men, you may move on to the
right (turn to 206), or to the left (turn to 277).

44
After your ‘visitor’, you spend a restless night. You

are determined to stay awake until dawn, but you
find you keep dropping off to sleep. When you
wake again the sun is already climbing in the morn-
ing sky. You scramble down from the tree and head
off towards the river to wash and refresh yourself.
Turn to 356,

45
Oh, crikey! You clutch your stomach and turn blue,
trying to stop the feeling that a rat is gnawing you
from the inside! Guursh is deadly! Roll one die and
lose as many STAMINA points as the result of your
roll. If there is a chance that you're still alive after
making such a drastic mistake, turn to 161.

46
Your kick catches Laskar in the jaw, knocking him
flying. You grab for the sword and one of the jewels.
Note down which one you choose on your Adven-
ture Sheet (you may only choose from those you
threw on the floor):

Diamond Turn to 371
Emeralds Turn to 228
Jets Turn to 173

Ruby Turn to 293

47-48

47
The press of battle buffets you this way and that.
And then, from out of the sky, a large leathery
shape swoops across the battlefield. Test your Luck.
If you are Lucky, turn to 184. If you are Unlucky,
turn to 147.

48
Laskar finds all kinds of equipment for you. Choose
what you do not already have from the following list
and write it on your Adventure Sheet: a sword, a
lantern plus supply of oil and some flints to light it
with, a length of rope, 4 Provisions. Fully equipped,
you allow Laskar to lead you back to the ravine.
Rather than climbing to the edge, though, he takes
you by a wide sloping path down the side of the
huge cut. The going is hard, and before long the
track is so steep and rocky that you must rope your-
selves together, Eventually you reach the base of
the ravine and stand looking out across the ruined
city with its once-beautiful buildings now lying at
strange angles, twisted and cracked by their fall.
Laskar leads you through the city, bringing you to
where a huge depression leads down into the earth.
The roof of a covered courtyard has fallen in, and
several dark and forbidding passages lead off it.
Laskar points one out. ‘That one leads down to
another courtyard from where you will find pas-
sages leading to the crypts, the royal palace and
chief temple. I have not been further than the court-
yard.’ You embrace the old man and he departs to
climb up to the temple on the north side of the

49-51

ravine and await your successful emergence from
the underground complex. Will you descend into
the darkness (turn to 289), or pause awhile (turn to

367)?

49
White-eye peers at the cloth, picks at it with a long

fingernail, rubs it between his palms — then blows
his nose on it! You object most strongly, but he
calms you, saying that it is just a worthless piece of
ordinary cloth dyed a golden colour and shows you
the dye that has come off on his hands. Turn to 11
and choose again.

50
It is a fountain, with a small statue of Telak pouring
water into a shallow bowl. The water which trickles
out now, though, seems very dark. You catch some
in your hand and examine it in the light of your
lantern. Oh, Telak! It isn’t water at all — it’s blood!
What evil has poisoned this place? You hurry from
the room. Turn to 271.

51
All day you wait, swapping nervous stories with
Lecarte. Finally, as the sun is setting, the sound of
hoofs comes from the west. In addition to those
whom you fought earlier, there are six more Lizard
Men — quite a force to be taken on by two adven-
turers and a tiger! The warriors ride up and head
straight for the copse. This is it— there is no escape
now. Turn to 36.

52-54

52
Roll two dice. If you roll less than or equal to your

SKILL score, turn to 180. If you roll more than your
SKILL score, turn to 115.

53
But you will need more than luck now that you are

being chased by half a dozen Lizard Men, all
mounted on riding lizards very much like yours.
You spur your steed, and race away from the enemy
lines. The chase is on! Turn to 177.

5

You creep between the trees, starting at every
rustle. After only a few steps you come to a small
grassy clearing, dotted with bushes holding
brightly coloured flowers and fruit. Surely this is too
good to be true? you think. It simply mnest be a trap!
You may wish to enter the clearing (turn to 279), or
perhaps you would rather return to your original
path (turn to 257).

55-57

55
Aaaarrghh! Over the edge you go. You land on a
large pile of broken floorboards and other trash. Roll
one die. If you roll 1-4, you must deduct as many
STAMINA points as the result of your roll. If you roll
5-6, you were lucky and avoided injury. After
resting down there for a moment, you pull yourself
out of the collapsed cellar, and move on. Turn to 32.

56
You wake up with a jolt and go rigid as all the hairs
on the back of your neck stand up. Something large
is crawling along the branch towards you, dragging
something behind it! You freeze, wishing you could
sink back into the tree-trunk against which you are
pressed. The thing gets larger, and you can hear the
faint rasping of its breath. Will you attack it (turn to
225), make a light (turn to 143), or just stay still and
hope that somehow it fails to notice you (turn to

352)?

57
Suddenly there are Lizard Men everywhere, all
slashing and cutting with their weapons. You don’t
stand a chance. Falling to the ground, the precious
blood draining from your body, the last thing you
hear is Laskar’s laughter, an embodiment of pure
Evil.

58-59

58

Steeling yourself for a trap, you thrust in your hand
and grab a small, hard object. Slowly, nervously,
you withdraw it, expecting every second something
nasty to happen. It’s a small idol, carved from some
strange metal, depicting a panther-headed god like
the larger figures dotted around the overgrown
temple. You tuck it away in your rucksack, and
press on. Turn to 245.

59
The riding lizard is jittery, but you are an expert on
horseback and the technique seems much the same.
You grab the reins and swing yourself up into the
small saddle. You kick your legs and with a screech
it hares away. Maybe you are not such an expert
after all — the Lizard is very difficult to control as it
gallops about on only two legs! Roll two dice. If you
roll higher than your SKILL score, turn to 260. If you
rollless than or equal to yoursKILL score, turn to 91.

60-61

60
A strange, soft lapping sound comes from within
the mist. And then, without waming, a galley is
upon you! Roll two dice. If you roll higher than your
SKILL score, turn to 6. If you roll less than or equal to
Your SKILL score, turn to 136.

61

The rickety caravan is packed to the rafters with an
incredible assortment of items. Bats hang from
hooks, glass jars full of amazing things line the
shelves, strange tapestries are piled thick on the
floor. Candles in the corners flicker and dance as if
animated, throwing wondrous shadows. The old
man speaks: ‘Welcome, young one, to the home of
White-eye. I am a trader. I deal in anything and
everything: advice, rare items from near and far,
healing, heart’s-ease, food and rest. 1 give and |
receive, a fair exchange. Now, tell me your story
and you can stay here for the night. . .” Do you
want to tell him (turn to 11), or would you rather not
(turn to 108)?

62-63

62

With a growl the Lizard Man slips over the edge of
the trench. A sickening sound follows and his
broken body lies still. Luckily for you, he fell on his
sword; add 1 Luck point. You continue along the
trench, following it for some way before it ends ina
set of rough wooden steps. You clamber up them
and peer over the top. Turn to 294.

63

All at once you are at the clearing. Dark shapes
mounted on larger ones mill about in confusion,
trapped by your simple barriers. You toss your taper
high over their heads and turn and mun. As you fly
through the trees a vast sheet of lame springs up
behind you, mingled with the screams of the dying
Lizard Men. At a safe distance you stop and look
back, feeling disgusted at what you have done.
Always taught to fight fair, you feel you have some-
how cheated. Lecarte rides up, all smiles. ‘Come,
my friend, let’s go.’ Offering you his big hand he
helps you up into the saddle behind him and you set
off for Capra, with Snag capering around your
mount’s legs. Turn to 89.

64

oo

You freeze instantly. That last cry was too artificial!
Silently drawing your sword, you stand in the
shadows and wait. With a whooping cry, a band of
dark-skinned warriors clad in panther skins swings
down at you from the trees, long knives slashing the
air. You are ready for them, though, and leap to the
attack. There are five warriors, and they attack two
at a time. Each time a warrior falls another takes his
place.

PANTHER
WARRIORS

If you take two consecutive hits or your STAMINA
score is reduced to 4 or less, turn to 381. If you defeat
the warriors, turn to 155.

each SKILL 5 STAMINA 6

65-66

65
With a screaming bellow, a huge Stegosaurus
lumbers through the ranks towards you, the Lizard
Man on its back howling a blood-curdling war-cry.

STEGOSAURUS

Roll one die every round. If you roll 6, you are hit by
a sling-stone flung by the Lizard Man rider. Deduct
1 STAMINA point. If you score two consecutive hits
against the Stegosaurus, or defeat or kill it, you can
Hee from it. Roll one die. If you roll 1-2, turn to 187;
3-4, turn to 144; 5-6, turn to 47.

SKILL 10 STAMINA 10

6
‘Oho!’ comes a deep rumbling voice. You feel your-
self hoisted aloft by the collar and slowly turned
round until you are staring into the decidedly ugiy
features of a large Orc. ‘A yooman! A yooman!’ he
yells, The funeral collapses in uproar.

The Shaman yells, ‘A sacrifice! A gift to Lord
Hashak! Yeah!’ Will you try to fight (turn to 265) or
surrender peacefully (turn to 343)?

67-68

67

The narrow tunnel seems to have been formed
when part of the roof collapsed into a passage.
Before you venture in you poke it with your sword
to check that it is safe; it seems so, though a few
particles of dust are dislodged. You wriggle in; it
doesn’t lead very far. At the other end it opens out
into a room. You wriggle a little further, the floor
beneath you crumbles, and you fall into the room.
Turn to 29,

68
This small alcove was obviously used to store water,
wine or something similar, for there are several
smashed pots in it. They are of an interestingly
ancient design, but don’t appear to hold anything of
interest. You poke around for a bit but nothing
comes to light. Now you may investigate the other
alcove (by going to 168), or leave the room (turn to

274).

69-70

69
The Commander and one of the Swamp Goblins
leap to the attack, while the others hastily attempt to
put out the flaming pitch and join the battle. They
will engage you only if you defeat the first two.

SKILL STAMINA .

COMMANDER 7 9
First SWAMP GOBLIN 6 5
second SWAMP GOBLIN 6 5
Third SWAMP GOBLIN 5 5

If you defeat them, turn to 193.

70
Wiping the sweat from your clammy hands, you
grip the pommel of your sword and prepare for
battle. You may fight the nightmarish creatures in
twos. However, if you should score a hit, their
revolting bony frames are so strong that your sword
will only cause them to lose 1 STAMINA point,

SKILL STAMINA
First ISHKARIM 9 8
Second ISHKARIM 8 9
Third ISHKARIM 7 8
Fourth ISHKARIM 8 10

If you defeat them all, you may take the jewel and
leave by the small door to the stairs (turn to 87).

71-72

m4
You hear a tremendous thumping sound from the
trench, and try to stay as low as you can. A huge
riding lizard, along with its Lizard Man rider, leaps
the trench and travels on. After dusting yourself
down you creep on (turn to 104).

72
The hours go by. The days go by. No help comes.
Soon the vultures will be picking meat from your
bones. Your adventure is over.

ae

73

73
You creep nearer, crouching close to some low

bushes a little way from the figures. At the top of the
low hill you see the group of Orcs all lining up to pay
their last respects to what seems to have been a very
eminent (but now very dead) old Orc. You slip
surreptitiously on to the end of the line. No one
pays you much attention; everyone seems very
upset and solemn. The dear departed was obviously
well loved by these Orcs, as many are weeping
openly. The line shuffles on and you get closer and
closer to the funeral bier. It is at this moment that
you remember sitting with your tutor back in
Vymorna, sharing a laugh over the fact that Orc
tradition declares that mourners must leave their
teeth-marks in the body of the dead! How are you
going to get out of this one? Will you attack the
nearest Orc (turn to 265), pretend to bite (turn to
250), or actually bite the corpse (turn to 392)?
74-75

74
What a magnificent place! Columns stretch out on

both sides, disappearing into the shadows, but
ahead of you-— well, whata sight! The walls are lined
with weapons and shields, and carved with murals
depicting many great deeds. At their centre,
though, stands a magnificent altar to Telak, and
upon it stands a small plinth holding a magnificent
tuby! Could this be the Eye of Telak? You glance
warily around you, peering into the shadows. To
one side of the altar there is a small door, obviously
leading to the stairs up to the temple where you are
to meet Laskar. Will you approach the altar (turn to
229) or leave by the small door (turn to 87)?

75
Your equipment and weapons are tossed out to the

warriors, and then you are trussed up and carried
off to a distant platform high in the trees. There you
lie until sunset, immobile and desperately thirsty.
As the moon rises you try to relax and sleep but you
are very afraid. From beneath you comes the pad-
ding of many feet through the undergrowth. You
roll to the edge of the platform and peer over. There
are a myriad shapes moving about in the moonlight
— panthers, dozens of them. Footsteps sound on the
platform behind you, something gives you a small
push and you fall. The panthers look at you, deli-
cious hunger in their eyes. Claws lash out. Your
quest is over.

76-77

76

Congratulating yourself, you stride on across the
rocky landscape. By the time the sun is starting to
set you have descended again to a flat, dusty plain
dotted with occasional trees, with the ever-present
tangle of jungle away to your right. By now you
should really be looking for somewhere safe to
spend the night, but nowhere presents itself. And
then. . . surely not? A light up ahead, between the
trees. You creep closer. Of all the things to find in
this forsaken wilderness: a caravan, a gypsy cara-
van! It stands in the shade of a clump of scrubby
trees, an old horse sleepily grazing the rough grass
near by. Will you approach the caravan (turn to 268)
or would you rather wait and watch (turn to 366)?

77
You duck back into the anteroom and cower in the

shadows to plan your next move. Suddenly you
hear footsteps on the stairs from Telak’s temple. The
door is flung open and a party of Lizard Men
emerge. You have no chance against them — you
struggle as they grab you and drag you into the
temple before Laskar, but it’s no use. The old man
turns with a grin of pure malice on his face, One of

78

the Lizard Men hands Laskar a bundle wrapped in
cloth. He greedily unwraps it to reveal a gorgeous
longsword, obviously the Arm of Telak. ‘Now, fool!
Do you have the Eyes?’ demands the old man ina
crazed voice. You reach into your pack and retrieve
whatever gemstones you found on your travels. (If
you have no gems, turn to 57.) With a disdainful
gesture you scatter them across the floor. Laskar
dives for them with a mad shout and you lash out at
him. Roll two dice. If you roll your sKILt score or
less, turn to 46. If you roll more than your SKILL
score, turn to 57.

A brass-bound door opens to reveal a small passage,
which in turn leads to a large room. The chamber is
empty of life, but features a row of large stone slabs
that look (from the deep red patches splattered on
them) as if they were used for dissecting bodies or
some similarly gruesome activity. Around the walls
lie the shards of smashed pots and vases, but most
seem to be filled with ashes — of what, you dare not
contemplate! Passages lead off straight ahead and to
the right. After peering down both you decide to go
right. Turn to 385.

79-81

79
‘We've got several options,’ Lecarte tells you. ‘We
could make a run for Capra, but the Lizard Men
might catch us, especially since we have only one
horse. Alternatively, we could wait for them to
return and fight them off. Or we could try some-
thing else; I have a fire-making substance that I
acquired from an old trader of Kallamehr. If we
could lure the Lizard Men into a trap and set it off we
could wipe ’em off the face of Titan! Now, I’m not
sure whether that plan would work at all, so the
decision is up to you.’ Will you run for it (turn to
120), stay and fight (turn to 51) or set a trap (turn to

349)?

80
You march on, now keeping your eyes peeled for
any threat. After an hour passes without incident,
you stop and eat some Provisions (if you have any).
Your supplies may be getting low. If you want to
hunt out some more Provisions, turn to 54; if you
would rather trek on, tum to 257.

81

Being careful not to trip over the loose rocks, you
lead the raging Tyrannosaurus Rex back to the edge
of the ridge. If you can get him there before he
attacks you, he should distract the Triceratops! As
vou reach the edge he makes one final lunge for
vou. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 34. If
you are Unlucky, turn to 132.
82-83

82
You kick open the door, step through the dark water
and trudge up a sloping passageway, leaving wet
squelchy footprints behind you. The passage curves
round to the right and then the path forks. You may
take the right fork (turn to 244) or the left (turn to
395).

Keeping your head bowed so that your hood covers
your features, you lift the chariot for the mutant
Lizard Man to refit the wheel. The impatient priest
jumps in without thanking you, and cracks his whip
for the mutant to pull along again. As the mutant
passes you and catches sight of your face, his eyes
widen in alarm. You wink at him as he scurries
off, his cruel master’s whip cracking across his
shoulders. Add 1 LucxK point. You move on. Turnto
319.

1 |

84-85

ot ae

84
They seem to be waiting too, sitting motionless on
their steeds. The peculiar lizards look at you with
cold, emotionless eyes. You shudder, as a chill of
foreboding grips your body. And then, without a
word or movement from their riders, the lizard
mounts start slowly to move towards you. Turn to

309.

85

‘Well, at least take something, even if it’s only a
good-luck charm.’ You pore over the big man’s
wares, which include a pot of black lotus incense; a
dazzling square, which Lecarte claims is cloth o'
gold; a small idol in the shape of a squat man witha
panther’s head; a finely worked mace; a jagged
copper Orc charm; and a phial of purple liquid.
Choose one, then turn to 223.

86-87

86

You peer over the top of a barrel. A curious sight
greets your eyes. A small chariot being pulled by a
stunted, mutant Lizard Man has shed a wheel and
its passenger, a haughty-looking old Lizard Man
priest, is beating the unfortunate creature. You can’t
understand the words he’s saying, but he’s
obviously furious, alternately shading his eyes from
the sunlight and lashing out with a crop. The priest
gives an exasperated sigh and gazes around him,
obviously looking for someone to assist him. You
duck down again, but were you fast enough? Test
your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 134. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 105.

87
The door opens easily enough, leading to a narrow,
rough-hewn passageway which slopes up for some
distance. Eventually it ends in a small, smooth-
walled chamber. Another leads off to your left, but
you're more interested in the stairs, which spiral up
to Laskar and freedom! Turn to 301.
88-89

88

You grab for your sword and lash out with it,
striking at the foul bird as the wind whistles around
you!

PTERODACTYL

If you score three hits against the overgrown bird it
will drop you —- turn to 131.

SKILL 7 STAMINA 9

89

You reach Capra’s welcoming walls and are soon
safe behind its thick wooden stockade. It was once a
small trading settlement, but now it is crammed to
bursting with nomads and farmers afraid of con-
stant attacks by the Lizard Man raiding bands. The
townsfolk are stunned by the news of Vymorna,
and do all they can to make you feel welcome. All
you really want to do is get some resi, but you end
up sitting in the Council House for much of the
night telling of the siege. Eventually, though, even
the anxious relatives clamouring for news of people
in the city can see you need some sleep, and leave
you alone. Turn to 202.

90-91

go

The door holds. You hear the sound of feet ringing
on the stairs behind you. You throw your whole
weight against the door again, but to no avail: it
won't budge. The other door flies open, and all of a
sudden you are being faced by four callously
grinning Lizard Men. You must fight them two ata
time.

SKILL STAMINA

First LIZARD MAN 8 7
Second LIZARD MAN 7 7
Third LIZARD MAN 9 7
Fourth LIZARD MAN 7 8

If you defeat all four opponents, turn to 38.

gi

More by luck than judgement you manage to steer
the lizard in the right direction, away from the
battle. You leap through the straggling ranks of
Lizard Men. In front of you, beyond the last series of
barricades and a few amazed soldiers, there is only
open country, and freedom. You urge your mount
forward, pleading with it to jump the barricades.
Roll one die. If you roll 1-5, turn to 263. If you roll 6,
turn to 260.

92-93

92
The sudden light is blinding — but the enonnous
Black Panther recovers first. Wicked claws slash at
you; deduct 2 STAMINA points.

BLACK PANTHER

If you defeat the savage creature, turn to 44.

SKILL 10 STAMINA 10

You creep from the castle as the first rays of light are
touching the tallest towers. Away to the west you
can hear battle being joined as a group of defenders
make a suicidal attack on the Lizard Man lines in the
hope that they will divert attention away from you.
You sneak through the ruined houses down to a
conduit, which leads through the lower walls. Soon
you'll have to decide whether you are going to head
for the plains or the river, but first you must get clear
of the city walls! You scuttle through the trenches,
hunched in your cloak, until the path divides into
two, Will you take the right (turn to 206) or the left
path (turn to 296)?

94-95

94
Throughout the day Ariella, the sun goddess,

blazes down on you. Every step you take is accom-
panied by a startling screech or growl. You continue
to head east, through the ferociously tangled under-
growth. Around noon you have a run-in with a
small panther, though the creature scampers away —
you don’t know who was more terrified, you or it!
[**] As the sun starts to sink behind you, you are
pleased to hear the sound of the river alongside you,
although you can’t see it. As you walk on, the
ground becomes damp and marshy, and soon you
have trouble finding a dry path; you weave this
way and that around large, swampy pools and find
your feet sinking into the saturated ground. You can
try to make camp where you are (turn to 278), or go
on a little way in the hope of finding more solid
ground (turn to 378).

95
You make it, but only just! As you walk down the

dark corridor you can still hear the rubble you
dislodged bouncing off the wall of the well as it falls
mto the depths. The passageway ends in five shal-
low steps, which lead up to another rotting door.
From behind it, as you listen, you can hear creaking,
like a door blowing in the wind, perhaps. You listen
again, but the noise seems to have stopped. You
push the door and it gives, but opens with a very
loud groan that will guarantee you're not going to
surprise the occupants of this room! Turn to 153.
96-97

96
Battered and bruised, blinded by blood pouring
from a slash across your forehead, you stagger
about in a daze. Someone — or something — batters
into you and sends you flying into the midst of the
battle. Turn to 144.

97
You continue on your way, hacking at the tangled

undergrowth. The sun rises; the night’s animals
creep back to their dens to sit out the scorching day
in cool shadows. Different creatures screech and
chatter in the branches above you. Soon you are
bathed in sweat, wishing you could stop, but
always pressing on. Turn to 204.

98

You accompany the strange man as he lays an
ambush for the Lizard Men. You can only watch as
he picks off two Lizard Men with his arrows. Then,
from the low branch of a nearby tree, the Sabre-
toothed Tiger leaps down at the inhuman enemy.
The mounts of the remaining Lizard Men shy away,
turn and run. Snag chases them for a short while,
then gives up and returns to the scene of the battle.
It sniffs the Lizard Man corpses for a moment before
turning up its nose and trotting back to its master.
Turn to 240.

99-100

99

A wide-winged Pterodactyl bearing a Lizard Man
pilot swoops down to attack, screeching with de-
light at having found a new prey! Each time it dives
at you, the Lizard Man attempts to poke you with
his javelin. Treat them as separate opponents. If the
creature and its rider have not killed you after six
rounds, they will fly away. If you manage to kill it,
the beast will fop down to the ground, allowing the
Lizard Man to leap off and attack you.

SKILL STAMINA
PTERODACTYL 7 9
LIZARD MAN 6 7

If you survive this attack, you may continue on your
journey (turn to 164).

100

From behind your hiding-place another large Orc
strides up. You breathe a gentle sigh of relief, but
keep your head down. The Orc is greeted by
another: ‘’Ello, cuzzin Skaldak. Dat'’s a bad sniffle
yoo got dere.’

‘Eh?’ replies Skaldak. ‘It weren’t me oo sneezed. It
cum from dat bush dere!’ You hear their footsteps
getting closer to you. So much for Luck! Turn to 66.
1I01~102

101

The key fits easily, but requires a lot of forcing to
spring the ancient lock. Finally it gives way with a
satisfying click, and the box opens to reveal a mas-
sive gleaming diamond lying on a base of rotting
purple cloth. You gasp in amazement at its size — it
must be worth a fortune! Recovering yourself, you
secrete the gem in your rucksack, and move on to
explore the other room. Turn to 312.

102

You stagger on. The mist is thicker, if anything,
than it was before. The ground becomes littered
with small white stones and pebbles, which make it
increasingly difficult to walk. There’s another how],
this ime from behind you. Whatever it is, either it
arcles you - or you are walking round in circles! The
rocks crunch beneath your feet and you look down
in horror. They are not pebbles: you are walking on
bones, a field of small white bones! Shapes loom in
the mist around you, accompanied by more heart-
chilling howling. Your every instinct is to run, but
where to? Will you run (turn to 195) or stay where
you are (turn to 39)?

|

103-104

103

You resume your journey, heading due east now.
This terrain is very empty, with little sign of life. The
land begins to rise. You make camp among a few
trees half-way up a rocky hillside, listening to the
howls of nocturnal creatures hunting way off in the
dark night. In the morning you continue travelling,
seeing for the first time the broad band of jungle
ahead of you on the horizon. Turn to 377.

104
This part of the trench has obviously seen some
fairly recent fighting, as bloodied bodies lie
sprawled in the mud. It seems that a unit of men
from the city were holding an important junction
against a large force of Orcs and Hobgoblins, but
eventually succumbed to superior numbers. There
is no sign of anyone around now, though, and you
may choose which path to take. You may go left
{turn to 18), right — almost certainly down to the
river (turn to 380) — or take the central trench (turn

to 277).
105-106

105
‘Grgll’garr! Kffthkr’ll!’ The old priest has seen you,
and is plainly ordering you to help, as his useless
servant is now fully occupied in cowering at his
scaly feet. You realize that your hood and cloak,
together with all the mud plastered over you, must
make the short-sighted priest think you are another
mutant Lizard Man! There is no time to flee. Will
you aid the priest (turn to 283) or attack him (turn to

157)?

106
You race down the passage, the fire’s heat warming
the back of your neck as clouds of smoke billow from
the room. The passageway joins a wider tunnel and
you run down it, coughing and choking. You run
out into a large room and stop to catch your breath -
and examine your find. There are several table-like
slabs of stone here, obviously used for some grisly
purpose, for they all bear the dark brown splatters
of ancient blood-stains. You pause by one and care-
fully unwrap the bundle, shaking it to make sure
that no snakes are still hiding in its folds. Inside
the bundle, wrapped up in oil-cloth to keep it free
from tarnish, is a magnificently decorated sword,
engraved and bejewelled, but with something

|

107

missing from the end of its hilt, What could this be
but the Arm of Telak? (Add 2LUck points and note
it down on your Adventure Sheet.) You gaze at the
wondrous weapon for a while, before wrapping it
up again and strapping it to your back for safety.
Now you may leave this chamber by heading left
(turn to 385) or going straight on (turn to 357).

107

You scull your small craft along the southern side of
the river, just out of reach of the branches of the
trees overhanging the bank. As you think about
them, you realize that you are sailing along the
northern edge of the infamous mangrove swamps
of Silur Cha, home to the Lizard Man invaders
currently pulling down your beloved Vymorna
stone by precious stone. The trees begin to look dark
and forbidding, holding hidden dangers for you.
Will you sail on your present course (turn to 359) or
push out for mid-stream (turn to 12)?

OE

108-109

108

‘Why keep silent, young one? You need not fear me.
for] serve no one but myself, and mean no harm te
anyone because of it. And no one could ever harm
me because of it, either. I have made sure of that.

The old man gazes deep into your eyes, and you fee!
your angry spirit diminishing. You tell White-eye
the story of your journey and the siege, and of
your hopes and dreams, and more. You talk and
talk, feeling somehow compelled to continue. And
finally there is nothing more to tell, and you slump
in the chair, feeling tricked by this wizened old
gypsy. You are not sure what to do; half of you
wants to attack him (turn to 285), while the other
half wants to relax and indulge the old man (turn to

391).

109
The boats draw near. Each holds two grinning
Swamp Goblins ~ they obviously expect an easy
victory! You may fight a boatload at a time; each of
the three boats holds two Goblins.

SKILL STAMINA

First SWAMP GOBLIN 6 5
Second SWAMP GOBLIN 5 5
Third SWAMP GOBLIN 6 5
Fourth SWAMP GOBLIN 5 5
Fifth SWAMP GOBLIN 6 5
Sixth SWAMP GOBLIN 5 5

If you defeat all six Swamp Goblins, turn to 275.

110~-111

110
Waving your sword wildly, you attempt to clear a
path to the rags. Fight the snakes as one opponent.

TOMB VIPERS

If you defeat them, you manage to get to the pile of
rags and clear them of their slithering inhabitants.
You grab a large handful of rags, set fire to them and
throw them towards the doorway to create a path-
way. You grab a second handful, and feel some-
thing long and hard wrapped up in the cloth.
Hastily tucking it under your arm, you cast more
burning rags towards the door, and then make a run
for it. You leap the flames, reach the doorway, and
fling yourself down the corridor, your heart going
fit to burst! Turn to 106.

SKILL 7 STAMINA 6

A111

‘Ah, well,’ says White-eye, ‘so we can’t do business.
Never mind. Rest now, for it will be light soon
enough and you have a long journey stil] ahead of
you.” You take his advice and lie down and close
your eyes, but sleep evades you for some time. Just
what does the old man know? Eventually, though,
you sleep. Turn to 9.

-_—=_-
112-114

112
A towering Lizard Man warrior crashes into you,
swinging a large flint-edged sword and parrying
your blows with a crudely made shield.

LIZARD MAN SKILL 9 STAMINA 10

If the Lizard Man scores two consecutive hits
against you, turn to 162. If you score two consecu-
tive hits against him, or kill your opponent, roll one
die. If you roll 1-2, turn to 192, 3—4, turn to 322, 5-6,
turn to 187.

113

The messenger, who tells you her name is Katya,
agrees to accompany you, but says that her horse is
inno shape to be ridden. You set off on foot, leading
the ailing beast behind you. That night, you make
camp with the dark canopy of the jungle only half a
day’s walk away on the horizon. The two of you,
glad of the company, sit around the fire talking late
into the night before sleeping. In the morning you
wake to find that Katya’s horse has died during the
night. You continue your journey on foot. Turn to
272.

114
You lie stunned in the long grass, temporarily
winded by your fall. Looking around you notice a
copse only a short way away. Will you attempt to
make a run for the trees (turn to 341), or stand and
face the enemy (turn to 189)?

=

115-117

115
Aiieee! Your hand slips and you slide down the
vine, burning several layers of skin off your hand
(deduct 1 SKILL point). You land in a heap, disturb-
ing a cloud of flies and butterflies, which buzz
around your head before flitting away. You pick
yourself up, dust yourself down as best you can and
walk on, promising you won't try anything so fool-
ish in the future! Turn to 170.

116

You creep nearer to the immense siege engine.
There seem to be three engineers, Swamp Goblins,
commanded by a very officious-looking Lizard
Man. They are preparing to fire, lighting huge bales
of straw and wood dipped in a cauldron of steaming
green pitch. What will you do now? You could
sneak away again (turn to 363), wait for the soldiers
to be fully occupied and then leap to the attack (turn
to 69), or if you have your father’s bow you could
fire one of the special arrows at the pitch (turn to
222).

117
The ground is very spongy and damp. You sink into
it up to your ankles, but luckily no further. After
only a few dozen careful paces the ground hardens
again and you can go onas before. Turn to 194.

118-119

118

You creep closer, sticking to the bushes. Orcs are
lining up to pay their last respects to the body lying
on the large funeral bier at the top of the hillock. As
you are watching the line shuffle along, a very large
Orc comes and stands in silent contemplation right
by the bush in which you are hiding! The bush is
very prickly, scratching your face and tickling your
nose. Suddenly you just know it: you're going to
sneeze! Here it comes. Oh, no! Atishoo! Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 100. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 66.

119
You pull back the remains of the curtain —and come
face to face with another Giant Slug! If you are ever
going to get out of this room you will have to attack
it.
GIANT SLUG

If you defeat it you may enter this alcove (turn to 68),
or leave the room and continue your exploration
(turn to 274).

SKILL 7 STAMINA 10

a
120-121

120
Lecarte looks doubtful, but you set off anyway. The
horse is laden with large panniers and bundles of
goods, and as a result you make little headway. The
shadows lengthen as the sun nears the horizon, but
there is still no sign of Capra. Then, from behind
you, comes the unmistakable rumbling of hoofs,
Looking back, you can count the dark shapes head-
ing straight for you: as well as all the Lizard Men
who escaped you earlier, there are another six, quite
a force to be taken on by two adventurers and a
tiger. Will you continue to run from them (turn to
135), or turn and fight (turn to 36)?

121
With a snort the startled Lizard Man wakes up, sees
you, and draws a cruelly curving dagger.

LIZARD MAN
PILOT

If you defeat him, turn to 368.

SKILL 8 STAMINA 9

|

122-124

122

The ground rises to a small hillock dotted with
sparse patches of bushes and trees. At the crest of
the hill a motley group stands gathered around a
large funeral bier. Looking closely you can see that,
despite the veils and dark clothes, the mourners are
all Orcs! To one side a bizarrely dressed shaman
leaps and capers, throwing bones and entrails to the
winds in honour of the dead. In your disguise you
could creep closer still and take a better look. While
you are deciding, Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 73. If you are Unlucky, turn to 198.

123
You come face to face with a dead end as the trench
stops in a blank wall. This part must be still under
construction. Overhead a huge Pterodactyl wheels
above the battlefield, shrieking a ghostly cry. You
scurry back to the junction and this time take the left
branch. Turn to 18.

124
You creep round, flat against the wall for the most
part, avoiding the rubble and broken fitings.
Luckily the Slug seems to be intent on eating the
remains of a large tapestry. You reach the rotten
curtain covering the first alcove. Will you dartinside
(turn to 211) or attack the repellent creature (turn to

375)?
125-127

125

The archway leads through to another, very large
chamber. You raise your lantern and peer in — and
stop in amazement. As far as the eye can see stretch
row upon row of petrified stone warriors. Their
armour and weapons are detailed and lifelike,
though very ancient and foreign in design. So life-
like are they, in fact, that you could almost swear
that they were looking back at you! Will you enter
and explore (turn to 160), or retrace your steps and
take either the narrow tunnel (turn to 67) or the
right-hand archway (turn to 41)?

126
You have no chance of fleeing from such teeming
numbers! Fight them as one opponent.

WHARF RAT PACK SKILLQ = STAMINA 11

After five rounds of combat you may escape, if you
wish, and turn to 203.

127

You strike the chest with your sword, try to prise it
open with your knife, throw it against the wall, even
kick it about a bit but nothing seems even to dent it!
You root about in the debris for a key, but find
nothing. In disgust you toss the chest into a corner
and continue on to the other room. Turn to 312.
128~130

128

You dig for some time, but make no progress. You
have moved a fair-sized pile of rocks and debris
from the wall, but you seem no nearer to breaking
through it. In disgust you give up, collect your
things and return to the crypt. You must now
choose between going left (turn to 125) or wriggling
down the tunnel (turn to 67).

129
‘What need have I of weapons? I am a man of peace
and my friends protect me. Furthermore, I will not
trade in weapons of war. I will not trade for this.’
White-eye gives you a look that says, ‘You should
have known better!’ Turn to 11 and choose again.

130
It is about half an hour before dawn when you ride
out through the shattered main gate of Vymorna
with the troop of soldiers who are going to provide
an armed escort as far into the enemy lines as they
can. The ruins of the outer walls are quiet, save for
the feasting of the ever-present vultures and crows.
Slowly, picking your way around mined houses
and streets where you used to play, you ride to-
wards the flat, blood-stained plain where the main
engagement is to take place. As you leave the ruins

behind you peer out across to the sprawling enemy

lines. From every side rise soldiers of Evil. They
cheer a heart-stopping war-cry, and battle is joined!
Turn to 220.

131-132

131
Down, down you fall, the wind whistling through
your cape. With an almighty splash you hit the
river. For a moment you struggle, before breaking
the surface again and gulping in air. You are only a
few paces from the shore, and soon you are hauling
yourself out. You rest awhile, taking in your sur-
roundings, A little over fifty paces away, a guard
stands with his back to you, watching over a host of
small boats. If you could steal one you could row
up-river with little danger. You might rush the
guard (turn to 323), distract him by throwing some-
thing like a pebble (turn to 174), or sneak around
him through the remains of the old dockside build-
ings (turn to 158).

i132
The Tyrannosaurus Rex is upon you! In vain you trv
to fend off the cruel snapping jaws, but no matter
how hard you fence you cannot win. Soon you will
know what few others have known - the inside of a
Tyrannosaurus Rex! Your adventure is over.

ij
133-134

133
Laskar is still gloating over having you right where
he wants you, when a heavily armed band of Lizard
Men enter from the back of the temple, presumably
having come along the same route as you. Their
commander crosses to the old man, carrying a long
object wrapped in rags. He speaks with Laskar, who
exclaims in your tongue, ‘Ha! The Arm of Telak.
Now we shall see whether the legends are as true as
some believe! You!’ — directing his attention to you—
‘Give me the gemstones you found on your little, er,
excursion!’ You have no option but to hand over
whatever gems you found on your travels. (If you
found none, turn to 57.) You toss the gem or gems
on to the floor. Laskar dives for them, a mad gleam
in his eye. Ina last desperate attempt to be free, you
lash out at him with your foot. Roll two dice. If you
rolled equal to or less than your SKILL score, turn to
46. If you rolled higher than your SKILL score, turn

to 57.

134
Keeping your head down very low, you wait for the
noise to die away, before peering out again. The
coast is clear and you may move on. Turn to 319.

135-137

135

You kick the horse into action but already the Lizard
Men are gaining on you. The lights of Capra appear
ahead at last, and Lecarte sounds his horn. You are
gratified to hear one answer him from the walls of
the settlement. Arrows start to whistle around you
and you begin to weave about. It will take you
twenty rounds to reach the safety of Capra. For each
round roll one die. If you roll 6, you are hit by an
arrow and must deduct 2 STAMINA points. If you
get to Capra alive, turn to 89.

The galley scrapes by, its huge wake soaking you
and threatening to capsize your puny craft. As it
sails off into the distance — to deliver more supplies
and troops for the siege, no doubt - you begin
bailing out the water. All your Provisions are ruined
(cross them off your Adventure Sheet), but otherwise
things are all shipshape, and you can sail on. Turn
to 376.

137
You slip round, flat against the wall to avoid being
seen by the repulsive creature. In the corner of the
room you come across a small metal-bound door.
You may go through the door (turn to 355), or
continue round the edge of the room (turn to 329).

138-139

i me er g ee 138

You clamber over, around and among the statues,
which creak and rock beneath you. Looking down,
you see that the one on which you are standing is of
ey y) 4 | your patron, Telak — and that its eyes are made of
f Mn os solid jet. The Eyes of Telak? Of course! You bend
OT: ee , down in the flickering light of your lantern and prise
out the gems. In the corner of your eye, though, you
see the shadows waver and coalesce. Something’s
watching you! You look up, and can’t believe what
you can see. Silhouetted against the far wall are
evilly shaped shadows, slanting eyes and toothy
mouths cut out of them as if the shadows were the
creatures. You glance around — the shadows are the
creatures! You leap up, grabbing your sword. Test
your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 200. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 5.

.
t-

WAAL
an mA) Wy

‘ \ ~~ ay

Wb flit ‘

139
You leap behind some large rocks as four riders
thunder by, swathed in hoods and cloaks despite
the heat. You are going to call to them, but then see
, they are mounted on four-legged riding lizards. No
humans would ever be riding such beasts, you think
with a smile. The riders head away south, while you
continue to head east, more wary of danger now.
Turn to 257.

140-142

140
You hesitate a moment, and your eyes widen as you
see a large Lizard Man march briskly across to
Laskar, talk for a moment, salute and then march
back out of your sight. It is a trap! Do you have the
Arm of Telak (turn to 373) or not (turn to 77)?

141

Lecarte rubs disgusting greeny-brown muddy stuff
into your face and hands from a small pot he finds
among one of his bundles, and gives you a rough
jerkin and leggings to wear under your cloak. ‘From
a distance,’ he assures you, ‘you'll pass for a non-
human, as long as you don’t talk to anyone and
don’t get too close.’ It is now time for you to depart.
Turn to 223.

The priest gazes deep into your eyes, and you gaze
back. Surely you have seen such eyes before, gazing
at you from a Black Panther’s face! Could it be that
these people are shapechangers, were-men? The
priest solemnly picks up your pack and hands it to
you, and orders that you be lowered to the ground.
Your arms are untied and you are escorted back to
where you were first captured. As he turns to go,
the priest looks at you, nods, and turns away.
Within seconds there is no trace of the Panther
Warriors. Add 1 LUCK point and turn to 155.

143-145

143
Do you have anything with which to make a light,
something of your father’s, perhaps? If you do, turn
to 92. If you do not, you can stay absolutely still
(turn to 352) or you can attack the creature (turn to
225).

Somehow you find yourself cut off from your own
side, surrounded by the enemy. All around you mill
Trolls, Ogres, Lizard Men, Mutant Orcs and more.
For a moment you stagger about in a daze, then a
heavy blow smashes across the back of your head.
Deduct 2 stamina points. If you are still alive, turn
to 162.

145
A horse trots up. Its rideris wearing the uniform of a
messenger or scout, and is carrying a bow and a
longsword. Both horse and rider seem very tired
and dusty from the trail. Will you attack them (turn
to 384), or greet them peacefully (turn to 396)?

146-148

146
The riding lizard is very sure-footed and is soon
striding off through open country on its strong hind
legs. With your heart still pounding in your chest
with excitement, you realize you are free of the city!
Add 1 Luck point, and turn to 53.

147
Two huge claws grasp your shoulders and wrench
you from the ground, high up into the sky, Fora
moment your mind revolves in sheer panic, but you
soon calm yourself, and work out what to do. Will
you attack the creature with your sword (turn to 88)
or wait and see what happens to you (turn to 270)?

148
You creep round the animal pens, noticing with
delight that apparently they are not guarded. It
should be an easy task to steal one of the riding
lizards (turn to 350). Or would you rather continue
on your way out of the Lizard Men’s camp (turn to

237)?

149-150

149
The disgusting creature leaps at you, bellowing like

a wild boar. She has no weapon, but her fingernails
are sharpened into talons. In the confusing fumes of
the incense you must reduce your Attack Strength
by 1 point for the duration of this fight.

LIZARD WOMAN SKILL 6

If you defeat her, turn to 280.

STAMINA 8

150

You hang on to your perch for a while longer,
enjoying the breeze. Eventually, though, you must
climb down. As you lower yourself through the
branches, you notice that there is a clump of long
vines hanging from the tree. You are suddenly
tempted to swing on one, but would it be safe? Do
you want to try (turn to 52) or would you rather
climb down to the ground (turn to 170)?

151-152

151

Slashing away at the vines, you give yourself a nasty
shock as you reveal a large panther-head carved out
of some kind of dark rock. These people obviously
worshipped a huge panther-god. Between the
snarling jaws of the statue, there is a deep, dark
hollow. You peer into it, but can see nothing. Will
you take a chance and reach into it (turn to 58), or
leave this place (turn to 245)?

152

This chamber is smaller and more upright than the

| ol 2. in last. Its walls are lined with shelves, each piled high
CR oSTit yet KePOOLIOD| Wy’ Fe Se with musty, rotting ceremonial robes. It seems to be

a Wal Fe} Wd yA at : ‘Sa

big re TG a some sort of a dressing-room — the temple to Telak
i aii WALLS a “ft UE must be very near here. As you search through
STEAL | SUT iii L?f them, you find some robes in good enough condi-
phragt M m1 Ke mes us TANS ys! tion to wear. Decide whether you want to wear the
a ee 3 aS robes, and then leave the room by the small door
opposite, following the narrow winding passage
\ a which leads down to another similar door. You
~~ SS pause and press your ear to the door, but you hear
\e ——————— =A nothing. With your sword at the ready, you push
2 3 ¢ open the door. Turn to 74.

+

oe
a.

.
F / habs

153-154

153
The door opens to reveal a vast hall, its far end
shadowy in your flickering lantern-light. You can
just make out a large pair of double doors set in the
far wall, and a pair of tattered curtains covering two
small alcoves on the right wall. More importantly,
though, you can also make out the huge grey slug-
like creature, which is chomping at one of the
curtains! What will you do:

Attack the creature Turn to 375
Slip round the room’s left

wall Turn to 124
Slip round the room’s right

wall Turn to 137

154

You pick your way up the stairs, which lie at a
terrible, twisted angle, causing you several amdous
moments as you drag yourself along. By the top you
are walking half on the floor and half on the wall! A
small door is set in the wall at the top of the steps, its
frame shattered and smashed. You listen at the door
but hear nothing except your own heartbeat. Will
you enter the room (turn to 311), or would you
rather return down the stairs and take the other
passage (turn to 353)?

155-156

155

You trek onwards, expecting to feel the sting of
blow-pipe darts with every step, as the ground rises
into the foothills of the Lion Heights. By mid-
afternoon the ground is rising steadily and the climb
is getting steeper. You stop to eat some Provisions
in the shade of a large thorn-bush. As you are sitting
munching a large, sweet fruit, you hear a heavy
flapping of wings. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 186. If you are Unlucky, turn to gg.

156

In your delusions, you dream of water bathing your
face, of standing beneath an ice-cool waterfall...
You wake in a darkened room, the wizened face of a
man staring down at you. You start and try to sit up,
but he quietens you, replacing the damp cloth on
your forehead. You sleep again. When you wake
again, it is shll dark, and the old man is still sitting
beside you. ‘Ah, my young friend,’ he purrs.
“Awake at last. Good. I think you should be able to
get up now.’ He wavesa hand towards a pile of your
clothes and equipment. ‘I found your things
scattered in the sand, near where, ummm... .’ His
voice trails offin sadness. You try to sit up, and find,
to your surprise, that you can. You look at yourself:
you are very thin and your skin is peeled and burnt,
but otherwise you seem to have made a good
recovery (you may replace all but 2 of your lost
STAMINA points). Looking around, you discover
that you are inside a cluttered caravan. Turn to 61.

157-159

157
Your luck has run out, it seems. The priest peers
closely at you, despite the savage sun making him
squint. He sees immediately that you are a human,
shrieks a curse, and leaps to the attack with his crop!

LIZARD MAN
PRIEST

If you defeat the priest, turn to 319.

SKILL 10 STAMINA I1

158
You sneak aiong through the rubble, nearer and
nearer to the boats. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 181. If you are Unlucky, turn to 313.

159
You dive through the door. There is no floor! Roll

two dice. If you roll less than or equal to your SKILL
score, turn to 386. If you roll higher than your SKILL
score, turn to 55.

160

160
You tiptoe through the room of stone warriors,
hardly daring to breathe. You feel a thousand pairs
of dead eyes on you, but every time you wheel and
stare at the figures you see nothing but stone. What
you could do with such a force of soldiers! you
muse. You leave through the archway at the far end
of the chamber, following a wide, dusty passage
which leads down and away to the right. Eventually
the corridor ends in a largish room. At its centre
stand three large stone slabs that appear to have
been used for some gruesome practice, for they all
bear the dark brown splatters of ancient blood-
stains. Beyond speculating as to what went on here
there is nothing of interest, and you press on. Will
you take the left exit (turn to 385) or the right (turn to

357)?

161

161

You feel very, very ill. The Orcs are all laughing and
singing, and showing no ill effects from the repel-
lent stuff, but you feel absolutely dreadful. You
wander off and lie down for a bit, your head reeling

. You wake in a heap on a grassy hillside. Your
mouth feels as though a rat has nested in it and you
can’t focus your eyes! You stand up somehow, and
stagger wildly off down the hill to bathe your face in
a stream. You feel very groggy, and have a splitting
headache. You must temporarily reduce your SKILL
score by 2 points. You will recover when you meet
this symbol [**] in the text, but not before. You
arrange your equipment as best you can and stagger
on, now heading east; your path is wooded, with
trees all around. At the far end of the woods you
pause for breath, but then hear the unmistakable
sound of horse’s hoofs, getting closer. Turn to 185.

»
1

162-163

162
You wake up face down in blood-stained mud, lying
sprawled with a number of decaying corpses in the
bottom of a trench. Your chest hurts from a deep
gash, and there is blood in your hair and a huge
bump on your head, but otherwise you seem to be
all right. Turn to 333.

163

‘Oh, yeh! Kuzbag’s kid! My, ‘aven't yoo grown, eh?
’Ow’s yer dad?’ Before you can answer, luckily, the
shaman bellows for everyone to raise a toast to their
dear departed chieftain. It strikes you that everyone
here has already drunk several dozen toasts, but
mugs are passed round, and one is thrust into your
hand. You peer in and recoil. It’s Guursh, the
dreaded Orc ale! Will you refuse to drink (turn to
66), pretend to drink (turn to 210), or drink it all
(turn to 45)?

164

164

There must be a force of Lizard Men near by, you
decide — but surely they can’t know that you are in
the area? You hurry onwards, climbing higher up
into the hills. The day begins to wane and you are
still climbing. The trees are getting sparser, and the
chmb is getting harder. Evening comes but you
press on, certain that you are close to your goal. You
come to a rocky escarpment and start to ascend it.
All at once a tremendous howling roar comes from
above you. You look up in panic, and see an im-
mense golden tiger dancing in the air above you.
Something in the back of your mind tells you that it
is an illusion, but your imagination tells you that itis
real, and very, very terrifying! Do you remember
the stories of the panther-gods of the jungle tribes?
Roll two dice; if you roll less than or equal to your
SKILL score, you defeat your fear (turn to 239). If
you roll more than your SKILL score, deduct 1
STAMINA point and test again, and again, until you
succeed or are literally scared to death!

165-167

165

The narrow, rough-hewn passage slopes down for
some considerable distance and ends at a narrow
doorway. You listen but hear nothing. Carefully,
sword at the ready, you push open the door and
peer into the room. What a magnificent place!
Columns stretch out on both sides, disappearing
into the shadows, but ahead of you. . . well, whata
sight! The walls are lined with weapons and shields,
and carved with murals depicting many great
deeds. At their centre, though, stands a magnificent
altar to Telak, and upon it stands a small plinth
holding a magnificent ruby! Could this be the Eye of
Telak? Will you approach the altar (turn to 229) or
return to the stairs (turn to 253)?

166
Staggered and shocked by your victory, the ranks of
Lizard Men fall back in disarray. Turn to 213.

167

Suddenly you are surrounded by Lizard Men! So
much for your brilliant plan! You drop the taper and
draw your sword. The reptilian warriors grin and
close in on you. Suddenly they shrink back as a horn
sounds from the trees, answered by an animal
howl. With a yell Lecarte and Snag leap into the
clearing. “Would I let you handle this on your own?
And miss all the fun?’ Lecarte grins. Turn to 36.

168

168

This alcove is disappointing, holding nothing but
piles of wooden trash — broken and rotten chairs,
maybe. You turn to leave and something catches
your eye, a glint of Jantern-light on metal. Peering
back into the room you notice a small crack in the
wall. Is there something in there? You squint into
the crack: yes, definitely. Something metallic. Will
you reach in and grab it (turn to 188), investigate the
other alcove, if you have not done so already (turn
to 68), or leave the room and continue your explora-
tion (turn to 274)?

169-171

169
The sun is setting, and suddenly the jungle is a very
cold and unfriendly place. You must find some-
where to sleep before it becomes too dark to see.
You could climb up into the branches of a low tree

(turn to 218), or settle down in some soft bushes in-

the undergrowth (turn to 17).

£70

The day warms as you journey onward and the
jungle comes alive. Birds call, monkeys scamper in
the trees, everywhere is strangely beautiful. A new
call, one you have never heard before, sounds way
up ahead, and is answered by a roar: some over-
zealous parrot eaten by a crafty jaguar, no doubt.
But on the other hand . . . Roll two dice. If you roll
less than or equal to your SKILL score, turn to 64. If
you roll higher than your SKILL score, turn to 320.

171

The path curves gently down between rows of
ancient statues before opening out into a large
antechamber littered with debris. Opposite are a
pair of solid double doors. You cross to them and
listen carefully, but hear nothing. Gingerly, you

171

push them open and peer into the darkness. The
next chamber is similar to the last, but larger and in
better condition. In each corner stands the life-sized
statue of a warrior, with two more flanking the
doors at the far end of the room. You pick your way
across the room, and almost jump out of your skin
in fright as the two door Guardians cross spears to
bar your way! The one to the right is missing most of
its head and the other has lost its left arm, but both
are animated by Evil and are quite capable of taking
you on. The head on the floor by the right warrior’s
feet booms out: ‘None shall enter here! None shall
enter here!’ It’s just like an old heroic saga, you
think to yourself, hefting your sword. The Guar-
dians attack together.

SKILL STAMINA
First GUARDIAN 6 4
Second GUARDIAN 5 5

If you defeat both of them, turn to 269.

172-174

172
A grotesque, subhuman Ogre shambles across to-
wards you, swinging an immense jawbone as a
club.

OGRE SKILL 7

If it scores two consecutive hits against you, turn to
306. If you score two consecutive hits, or kill the
Ogre, roll one die. If you roll 1-2, turn to 65; 3-4,
turn to 208; 5—6, turn to 382.

STAMINA 10

173

The two coal-black gems fit into the hilt of the sword
where they rattle loosely. You leap for Laskar,
swinging wildly with Telak’s sword. He looks ter-
nified, but somehow parries your blow with his
staff. Where is the immense power this sword is
meant to have? you wonder. An arrow thuds into
your arm, and another into your leg. You fall to the
ground and a Lizard Man's sword swings towards
your neck. Your adventure is over.

174
You toss a rock towards the far side of the quay. Roll
two dice. If you roll less than or equal to your SKILL
score, turn to 181. If you roll higher than your sKILL
score, turn to 313,

175-176

175

You plunge into the green leafy darkness of the
jungle. Little light penetrates here, but eventually
you grow accustomed to it. Your eyes start picking
out hanging vines, birds high up in the lofty trees,
monkeys swinging and chattering with one
another. It is the cries of the creatures that are most
Surprising. From up ahead a peculiar roaring,
echoes through the trees. Will you go on (turn to
330), OF retrace your steps and head north (turn
to 27)?

176
The band consists of four mounted riders, cloaked
and hooded despite the scorching heat, riding four-
legged lizard mounts. There's no chance for either
of you to hide now, even if you wanted to. The
mysterious riders slow and trot to a halt ata wary
distance from you. You cannot see their faces and
there is no indication of who or what they are. Will
you greet them (turn to 22), attack them (turn to
247), Or wait for them to make a move (turn to 24)?

177-179

x77

The grassy plain across which you are riding
stretches on for an eternity, with no help in sight.
You race on, wondering how Jong your panting
mount can keep up this furious pace. You crane
your head around and look behind you: the Lizard
Men are gaining on you! Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 347. If you are Uniucky, turn to 399.

178
You creep along, flattened against the wall. As the
Orc sneaks round the other side of the building, you
let out a sigh of relief and turn to hurry away. Slam!
Straight into the chest of the other Orc! He looks
down at you with his little piggy eyes and growls.
You must fight him.

MARSH ORC SKILL 6 STAMINA 7
If you defeat him, turn to 32.

179
You dive for the door but fall short. The snakes are

all around you, hissing at the prospect of fresh meat!
Fight them as if they were one opponent.

TOMB VIPERS SKILL 8 STAMINA 11

If you win, you beat a way to the door and escape
from this room of nightmares. Turn to 29.

180-181

180
You swing across the glade and land on what
appears to be a wooden platform, woven from
branches and perched high up in the trees. A nar-
row walkway leads off it. Will you follow it (turn to
33), or swing down to the ground on the rope and
continue your journey on foot (turn to 170)?

181

You reach the boat with ease. Hastily throwing your
equipment into a corner, you push the small craft
out into the river. You're free of Vymorna! Add 2
LUCK points. The Vymorn River is broad and slow-
moving. Its name means ‘Dark Waters’, for it carries
black silt washed down from the Lion Heights far to
the east — which is where you are headed. Which
course will you follow as you row up-river? Will you
hug the north bank (turn to 314), the south bank
(turn to 107), or travel mid-stream (turn to 12)?

182-183

182

You creep carefully up the steps, which are twisted
and buckled. They curve slightly to the right as you
climb. When you are nearly at the top you hear a
noise from behind you, back in the room, which
makes you pause. You listen carefully, and hear
strange, guttural voices. Lizard Men! You run up
the last few steps, through the door at the top and
slam it behind you. To your alarm you notice that
there is no lock, and gazing around, you can see
nothing to bar it with either. In blind terror you race
down the corridor, pausing only to notice that on
both sides it is lined with barred cells. There is
another door at the far end. You kick it— and it holds
firm. It’s locked! Your heart sinks. Will you try to
force it again (turn to 321), or look for a key (turn to
264)?

183
You pull back the remains of the curtain — and come
face to face with another Giant Slug! If you are ever
going to get out of this room you will have to attack
it.
GIANT SLUG SKILL 7

If you defeat it you may enter the other alcove, if you
have not done so already (turn to 68), or leave the
room and continue your exploration (turn to 274).

STAMINA 10

184-186

184
You are buffeted by giant gusts of wind, and then
hear the man next to you scream in terror as he is
dragged aloft by a Pterodactyl. You stare after the
unfortunate man for a moment, and then return
your attention to the battle just as an immense
blood-spattered Troll barges his way towards you.

TROLL WARRIOR SKILL 9

If your opponent scores two consecutive hits
against you, turn to 162. If you score two consecu-
tive hits against him or kill him, turn to 333.

STAMINA 9

The sound of hoofs comes closer and closer, but
they slow toa gentle trot as they approach the trees.
Will you leap out and challenge the rider (turn to
302), or wait and see what happens (turn to 145)?

186
You leap into the cover of the trees as a huge
Pterodactyl bearing a Lizard Man pilot swoops low
overhead. If you have your father’s bow and arrows
you may attempt a shot (turn to 318). Otherwise you
can only watch the beast fly off into the distance,
before moving on (turn to 164).

187-189

187
Two gibbering Swamp Goblins, both dressed in
the livery of the Lizard King’s army, leap for you
brandishing tiny jagged knives. You must fight both
at once.

SKILL STAMINA
First SWAMP GOBLIN 5 5
Second SWAMP GOBLIN 6 5

If they score two consecutive hits against you (either
singly or between them), turn to 162. If you score
two consecutive hits against either of them, or kill
both outright, roll one die. If you roll 1-2, turn to
208; 3-4, turn to 172; 5-6, turn to 65.

188
Gritting your teeth to steady your jangling nerves,
you reach into the crack. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 215. If you are Unlucky, tum to 346.

189
The Lizard Men ride up —all eight of them! They grin
atrogantly at you as you stand, sword drawn to face
them. They kick their mounts and advance towards
you, curved blades at the ready. There is no escape.
Your adventure is at an end.

190-191

190
In the morning Laskar asks you to follow him from
the cavern, making no mention of last night's activi-
ties. You climb high up into the hills until suddenly
the old man stops and points down over the edge of
a vast ravine. You look to where his arm indicates,
and find yourself staring at an entire city, which lies
across the floor of the ravine. ‘Kharnek, city of
warrior-kings, now accursed,’ he says. ‘I’ve spent
all my life in studying its secrets, but there have
always been places that have defeated me. Down
there, in the depths of the royal palace, are the
deathiess ones, the warriors who will sleep no
more. I am too old for combat, but you, well, I think
you will be safe. Down there somewhere, the
legends have always said, are the Arm and the Eyes
of Telak, the great hope from your dreams. I am
certain that the Arm is a huge bejewelled sword, but
I do not know what form the Eyes take. When you
are ready, we will descend to the upper levels. You
will enter there and do what you have to do. I will
climb up and meet you at the temple high on the far
wall.’ He indicates it with a bony finger. ‘There is a
stair which leads up to it from behind the main
chapel to Telak, I believe. Now,’ says Laskar, turn-
ing to go, ‘let us see what you will need.’ Turn to 48.

191

White-eye leans over and whispers, as if being
overheard. ‘I have heard that Laskar is a changed
man, that he gives allegiance to another master from
yours. Go along with him only as far as you must,

192-194

and be prepared for treachery! Now, man-child,
sleep.’ You lie back, ing Over what you have
heard and dreading what you still have to do.
Eventually, sleep comes to you. Turn tog.

192
A hail of arrows lands ail around you. Men fall, the
cruel barbed shafts pinning them to the blood-caked
earth. Roll one die. If you roll 1-4, none of the
arrows hit you. If you roll 5-6, though, deduct 2
STAMINA points as one wings your shoulder, The
press of battle returns and another opponent leaps
towards you. Roll one die. If you roll 1-2, turn to
208; 3-4, turn to 47; 5-6, turn to 333.

193
You pour the pitch and bales of straw and wood all
over the siege engine, and toss a blazing torch on to
it. It burns satisfyingly rapidly. At feast that’s one
catapult that won't be bombarding your beloved
Vymorna any more. Add 1 Lucx point, Turn to 363.

194
Noon passes into afternoon, and you continue to
hack your way through the tightly packed vegeta-
tion. As the sun starts to cool you can stop and eat
some Provisions. If you have none, you may search
for more (turn to 374), unless you would rather
continue walking (turn to 169),

195-197

195

You turn and flee but the voices and faces are all
around you. You clutch your head and scream but
no sound emerges. Dead faces loom out of the mist;
swords and axes wielded by skeletal hands scythe
the air, You fall to your knees in sheer terror. The
roar of battle is all around. Metal clashes on metal
and bone; screams and curses howl in your ear. The
grinning death’s-head faces of warriors long dead
close in around your whimpering frame. Soon you
will join their legion. Your quest is at an end.

196

The passage leads only a few paces before opening
out into another badly damaged room. Religious
relics, pots, robes and boxes lie smashed across the
floor. As you gaze around, though, your eye lights
on a chest sitting in a corner, almost completely
unscarred. Do you investigate further (turn to 335),
or would you rather leave this room and move to the
other (turn to 312)?

197

The emeralds flip out of the crown. Rather
strangely, both have flat backs, but when you hold
them up together you see why — they are two halves
of the same huge stone. Congratulating yourself on
the discovery, you secrete them in your rucksack
{note them down on your Adventure Sheet) and move
on. Turn to 310.
198-200

198
‘Aha!’ comes a rumbling voice in your ear. ‘’Ello, bit
shy are yer? Cum to pay yor larst respeks, too? Cum
on then, Cuzzin!’ A very large and ugly Orc reeking
of alcohol slaps you on the back and ushers you
forward up to the top of the hill. ‘We're all family
‘ere, y know. No standin’ on ce-ree-mon-ee or shy-
ness.’ Will you go along with this for the moment
(turn to 287), or try to escape by kicking the Orc
somewhere you hope he still has some feeling left
and run away (turn to 230)?

199

You creep over the bridge and find yourself on a
larger platform, from which lead a great number of
covered hollows. You peer into one, and find it laid
out like the inside of a hut, with straw bedding and
furs placed on the floor. Then you stiffen—a sliver of
cold metal! has just been placed against your neck!
You duck and kick out, sending a warrior flying off
the edge of the platform to fall to his doom. How-
ever, there are five other warriors and they are
ready for you. Roll two dice. If you roll less than or
equal to your SKILL score, turn to 292. If you roll
higher than your SKILL score, turn to 324.

200

You trip and knock over your lantern, but luckily it
stays lit. The sinister Shadow Ghouls creep across
towards you, flickering in the light. You must fight
ali three at once!

201-202

SKILL STAMINA

First SHADOW GHOUL 8 4
Second SHADOW GHOUL 8 5
Third SHADOW GHOUL - 5

If you defeat the creatures, turn to 337.

201

You spur your mount on, but it is worn out from the
chase and gives way under you. As you fall, yourleg
gets trapped under its body and you cry out in pain.
Deduct 1 STAMINA point. By the time you have
extricated yourself from the tangles of the saddle
and stirrups it is too late to run. Turn to 189,

202
Before the first silver fingers of dawn are in the sky
you are up and about, preparing to continue your
journey. Despite the dewy mist that clings to every-
thing, you must be off quickly. From what the
townsfolk have told you, the best route seems to be
to head north and then slowly veer due east. Lecarte
helps you get ready. While he helps you pack your
things (including 2 Provisions the townsfolk found
somewhere), he tells you he has another plan.
‘Howsabout you adopt a disguise? Make yourself
less human-looking, eh?’ Will you decide to go on
in disguise (turn to 141), or reject the idea (turn to
85)?

 _ ™-———=#w
203-205

203

You come to the wide wharf. Most of the old dock-
land was destroyed by the bombardment, and the
Lizard Men have now erected a makeshift quayside.
There is a single guard every fifty paces or so, each
watching over a cluster of small boats, which are
used to ferry men and materials out to the large
galleys moored in the centre of the river. If you
could distract one, you should be able to grab a boat
and head up-river. Will you attack in a headlong
rush (turn to 313), throw something to distract the
guard (turn to 174), or try to sneak up on him (hirn
to 158)?

204

It’s no good -— you simply must rest after your rough
night. You collect more Provisions and sit down in
the shadows at the edge of a small sunlit clearing to
eat. Turn to 307.

205

You make it — but only just! Obviously you are not
much good at jumping, you decide! The passage is
narrow, sloping slightly upwards to end in a small
door much like the one through which you recently
passed. After much creaking resistance, you pull it
open, to reveal a largish chamber lined with murals
depicting legendary events. An altar is situated to
one side, but seems to have lain unused for cen-
turies, if the build-up of ancient spiders’ webs is
anything to go by. At the far end is an archway
covered by an archaic rotting curtain. Turn to 14.

a
206—207

206

Picking your way over grisly bodies, you sneak off
along the trench. The floor of the trench seems to
rise, for you are soon having to crouch further and
further down to stay below the edge. A screeching,
stomping noise makes you halt in your tracks as it
gets nearer and nearer. Will you peer over the edge
of the trench to see what it is (turn to 231), or keep
your head down (turn to 71)?

207
You slip carefully down the steep slope, but your
feet dislodge small stones, which bounce noisily
down ahead of you. The Triceratops stops eating
and lumbers towards you with a bellow.

TRICERATOPS

The Triceratops has two attacks; treat the second
attack as if you were being attacked by a second
opponent with the same SKILL score. If you defeat
the creature, turn to 76.

SKILL 12 STAMINA 18

208—210

208

‘Ha! Yes indeed, ha!’ There before you is a creature
much like a stunted Two-headed Lizard Man - a
Calacorm! Muttering to itself about what it’s going
to do to you, it leaps towards you. The Calacorm
has two attacks; treat the second attack as if you
were being attacked by a second opponent with the
same SKILL score.

CALACORM

If it scores two consecutive hits against you, turn to
306. If you score two consecutive hits against it, or
kill it, roll one die. If you roll 1-2, turn to 47; 3-4,
turn to 333; 5-6, turn to 213.

SKILL 6 STAMINA 8

209

You reach the trees, shouting appalling curses at the
man, who reveals himself to be wild-eyed and
tough-looking, dressed in furs and leathers. ‘You
stupid son of a bristle-beast, you shot my mount!
Now what am I going to do?’ you scream, quite livid
with anger. The man calmly peers out at your
pursuers, then turns towards you. Turn to 21.

210
You lift the earthenware mug to your lips and make
the ritual slurping sounds. You think you've got
away with it, but your Orc companion, having
finished his mug in one go, helpfully lifts the base of
your cup for the gruesome liquid to flow into your
mouth. You have no option now but to drink! Turn

tO 45.

—  _-e.—™s—“R
211~213

211
You lift the curtain and creep towards the other
alcove, but the Giant Slug has seen you and slithers
forward, its huge maw drooling saliva and slime.
Ready your sword and turn to 375.

212
Your shot rings true and one of the Swamp Goblins
falls lifeless into the water. The other boats draw
near, though, and you must fight them, a boatful at
a time. This is not going to be an easy battle.

SKILL STAMINA

First SWAMP GOBLIN 6 5
Second SWAMP GOBLIN 5 5
Third SWAMP GOBLIN 5 5
Fourth SWAMP GOBLIN 6 5
Fifth SW AMP GOBLIN 5 5

If somehow you defeat all the raiders, turn to 275.

213
You see a chance, a weakness in the enemy lines.
Screaming for everyone to follow you, you make a
mad dash straight at the ranks of heavily armed
warriors ahead of you. Roll two dice. If you roll less
than or equal to your SKILL score, turn to 23. If you
roll higher than your SKILL score, turn to 288.

214-215

214
Shouting wildly to Lecarte to ‘Get the heck out of
here!’, you race for the trees with your taper.
Rushing through the darkness you head for the
clearing ~ and the Lizard Men. Test your Luck. If you
or Lucky, turn to 63. If you are Unlucky, turn to
167,

215
Your hand closes on the object and you pull it out. It
is a gleaming key that would fit a Z-shaped lock.
You slip it into your pocket, praising your good luck
and hoping it will come in useful. Now you may
explore the other alcove, if you have not done so
already (turn to 119), or leave the room and con-
tinue your explorations (turn to 183).

a OO
216

216

The door flies open and you dart through, along
another short corridor and to another door. As you
reach it you kick it open, leap into the room beyond
and slam the door. You pause for a moment to
collect yourself, close your eyes and take a deep
breath. Then you open them! Your feet are getting
wet. You gaze around in panic-—the room is leaking!
Blood-red water is pouring into the room through
cracks in the walls and ceiling. Blood-red water?
Oh, Telak! it is blood — the room is bleeding! What
sort of corrupt evil has infested this place to cause
this? As your mind reels you are distinctly aware of
thumps against the door. It flies open, and four
Lizard Men stride in. Momentarily confused by the
strange angle of the room, and its disturbing con-
tents, they quickly recover and leap to the attack.
You must fight them two at a time; because of the
conditions, you must all fight with 2 deducted from
your Attack Strength.

SKILL STAMINA

First LIZARD MAN 8 10
Second LIZARD MAN 9 9
Third LIZARD MAN 8 8
Fourth LIZARD MAN 9 9

If you defeat the Lizard Men, turn to 82.

217-219

217

Immediately there are dozens of swords and
notched arrows pointing at your neck, and each
weapon is held by a coolly grinning Lizard Man. It
was a trap! Laskar turns, a look of delighted malice
on his twisted face. ‘Ha! So you are here, you young
dupe! Do you have with you the Arm of Telak?’
Well, do you have the sword (turn to 248) or not
(turn to 133)?

218
You pull yourself up into the spread branches of a
tree, brush off a few spiders and bugs, and settle
down to sleep, wrapped in your cloak and listening
to the chirping of the nocturnal insects. Turn to 56.

219
You awake with a start and try unsuccessfully to sit
up. You struggle, but find you cannot move any-
thing except your eyelids, as you are trapped inside
a huge, matted spider’s web. You curse and
wriggle, but to no avail. Then you see the Spider! It
is easily the same size as your head, covered in black
and orange stripes like those of a wasp. It wriggles
down until it is perched on your chest, and stares at
you. Will you struggle to pull yourself free (turn to
235), strain to reach the dagger at your belt (turn to
370), or lie still (turn to 291)?

220-222

220

Screaming with one voice, the hordes of Evil race
across the battle-plain. Carrion-crows and vultures
rise into the air above them, screeching in anticipa-
tion. The first shock waves ripple through the lines
as the sides meet, and for a moment everything is
utter confusion, You were warned to stay near the
rear of the force, but now you must face an oppo-
nent —~ though in the confusion you won’t know
who it is until you are confronting them! Turn to
one of the following: 10, 112, 172, 187, 322 or 382.

221
Reminding yourself to be more vigilant in future,
you march on, hacking your way through the
jungle’s tangled undergrowth. The going becomes
easier as you find the rhythm again, but you will
never be used to having to slash a path for yourself.
Turn to 94.

222
Varooomm! Your arrow strikes the virulent pitch,
which explodes in an immense cloud of flame and
decimates the area. You hurry away from the
smouldering ruins of the siege engine, congratulat-
ing yourself on a job well done. Add 1 Luck point
and turn to 363.

a a
223-225

223

As you depart, Lecarte leans over and embraces
you, and whispers in your ear: ‘Search out White-
eye. He'll help you, I’msure of it. But don’t mention
[told you so, all nght?’

‘What about you, Lecarte?’ you ask. He tells you
he’s going to head further west, searching for news
of his father. You bid him farewell and set off again.
Are you going to head north (turn to 300) or east
(turn to 251)?

a4)
You have Hme to fire one arrow. Jt flies true and

hits its target in the amorphous head region. The —

creature screams, and lunges for you.
GIANT SLUG
If you defeat the Giant Slug, turn to 362.

SKILL 6 STAMINA 8

225

Your mind racing, you realize there’s no room to
swing a sword up here, and carefully unsheathe
your knife. You are just about to strike when the
moon comes out from behind a cloud, affording you
a glimpse of the creature. It’s an enormous Panther,
black as night, and it is dragging the body of a small
deer up into the tree to eat. As you gaze at it, you
realize the creature is staring at you! The moonlight

226—228

glints on your knife, and then on the claws of the
Panther.

BLACK PANTHER
If you win the battle, turn to 44.

SKILL 10 STAMINA 10

226

The emeralds flip out of the crown. Rather
strangely, both have flat backs, but when you hold
them together you see why: they are two halves of
the same huge stone. Congratulating yourself on
vour acquisition you secrete them in your rucksack
and move on. Make a note of your find on your
Adventure Sheet and turn to 78.

227

Katya leaps behind the rocks and scrambles out of
sight, and you are not far behind. The riders
thunder up to where you are hiding. Both of you
freeze, but then Katya glimpses something and
screams: ‘Caarth!’ Surely not! The dreaded Snake-
men of the Desert of Skulls can’t be raiding this far
east! Katya springs up, her sword already in her
nand, as the riders turn and gallop towards you.
You stand too, ready for battle. Turn to 247.

228
The two gems slot into the hilt perfectly, and power
courses through your veins! The emerald Eyes of
Telak gleam with holy energy. Waving the sword
zbove your head, you cry, ‘Telak be with me!’ and
ieap for Laskar. Turn to 400.

L
229

229
You pause before the magnificent altar, offering a
prayer of thanks to Telak. The jewel is a huge ruby
suspended from a glittering chain, and resting ona
carved plinth. The piece is exquisite; how it could
have remained untouched here in this place of Evil
is anuracle. You gaze deep into the ruby, marvelling
at the fire that flickers at its heart. And then the
clicking starts, like the tapping of a huddle of blind
beggars, like the creaking of a windmill in a gale.
From both sides it comes — and something, no
some things — are moving in the shadows. Then the —
the things step out from the shadows, in all their
insane glory. Skeletal, spider-like bodies are topped
by bizarre travesties of human features, long dead
and long enslaved by Chaos. These are the
Ishkarim, demonic guardians created by the Demon
Lords to watch over their most important treasures.
As the ice-cold gaze of their dead eyes takes in your
features you shudder, your heart sinking in your
chest. But still, if you have come this far. . . Are you
wearing a priest's robe (turn to 15) or not (turn to
70)?

vh

7,
se fhe :

/ fy
* Sh oft '
fal wily

230-231

230
You hurry away before the Orcs can react, slipping
through the trees and bushes. You run and run,
putting a great distance between yourself and the
grotesque funeral. When you reach the far end of
the woods you pause fora moment and stand there,
panting. Suddenly your ears prick up, as they pick
up the sound of horse's hoofs, coming closer. Turn

to 185.

231
A giant Running Lizard snarls down at you, a
heavily armoured Lizard Man perched in a saddle
on its back is poking at you with a javelin.

RUNNING LIZARD STAMINA 8

For every round of combat you fight, roll one die. If
you roll 1, the rider manages to hit you with his
javelin. Deduct + stamina point. If you kill the
Lizard, turn to 104.

SKILL 7

232-233

232
In the name of Alexandros the Second, my father,
and in the name of Alexandros the First, my sacred
forefather, | command you to be gone!’ you shout
into the wind. Nothing happens fora long moment,
and then the noise of battle begins to fade, A ghostly
warrior materializes before you.

‘Forgive us. For many long years we have awaited
the command of a captain from Vymorna so that we
may turn to our rest. We hear now and obey at last.
Our battles are over.’ The spirit salutes you and
tades slowly away into the mist. You shudder,
waiting for your nerves to calm, before moving on
and marching east. The sun finally breaks through
the mist and soon the sky is clear. You pause at noon
to eat some Provisions (deduct 1 meal from your
Adventure Sheet). Turn to 257.

233
You are pushed out of White-eye’s caravan into the

darkness, and spend an uncomfortable night
huddled under a bush. Next morning the caravan is
gone, though you didn’t hear it leaving. You move
on, hacking your way east into the jungle. It’s very
hot and humid, and by noon you are sweating like a
pig ona spit-roast, Turn to 204,

234-236

234
You come to the front of a large ruined warehouse.
Quickly, will you run around the building to the
right (turn to 266), to the left (turn to 178), or will you
enter the building (turn to 159)?

235
Roll two dice. If you roll less than or equal to your
SKILL score, turn to 25. If you roll higher than your
SKILL score, turn to 291.

236
During the night you wake, and for a moment
wonder where you are. In the dull glow of the dying
fire you can see Laskar crouched cross-legged,
muttering and swaying. You can’t hear any words,
but it looks as though he is praying, You lie back-and
slip once more into sleep. Turn to 19o.

237-238

437

Sneaking around the pen between the fence and
some ramshackle tents, you come across a small
Lizard Man sitting near a tethered Pterodactyl,
snoozing in the hot sun. Obviously the pilot of the
beast, he is dressed in supple leathers and wears a
peculiar hat like a skull-cap on his head. You must
creep past him if you are to continue. Roll two dice.
If you roll less than or equal to your SKILL score,
turn to 121. If you roll higher than your SKILt score,
turn to 37.

238

Each of the three boats - narrow, sleek and low in
the water — carries two Swamp Goblins. Small darts
from their blow-pipes start to fall in the water
around you. You can take evasive action (turn to 40);
shoot at them from a distance with your bow, if you
have one (turn to 212), or sail right at them and
prepare to attack (turn to 109).

239

239
You pull yourself over the edge of the escarpment,
to find yourseif staring into the lively eyes of a
wizened old man. You flinch back as he pushes his
staff towards you, then grin and use it to pull
yourself up. ‘Laskar?’ you ask.

‘The same. Welcome, I have been expecting you.’
The man is very old and looks shabby, but sprightly
and quick-witted. He leads you up the rocky hillside
to a large and very cosy cavern. Over a tasty rock-
rabbit stew he tells you how he knows of you. ‘My-
or should I say our - master came to me in a vision
three nights ago, though he is hard-pressed, and
bade me aid you in your quest. This! willingly do. In
the morning we have much to do, so for now you
should take as much rest as you can.’ He refuses to
answer any questions tonight, and commands you
to sleep. Eventually you give in and do so. Turn
to 236.

240-241

240
Make a note on your Adventure Sheet of how many of
the eight Lizard Men escaped you. “They’!l be back
with reinforcements,’ says the man, as you watch
them ride away.

‘That's al} very well,’ you reply, ‘but who on Titan
are you?’ He introduces himself as ‘the one and only’
Julius Lecarte, adventurer and trader, roaming
southern Allansia with Snag, his pet Sabre-toothed
Tiger, in search of his explorer father, Tadeus, who
disappeared several years ago. You haven’t heard of
his father, you tell him, but go on to relate the tale of
your adventures so far. ‘We should really head for
Capra, about half a dozen leagues from here,’ he
tells you. “They’re holding out against the raiders
for now and they’re still able to provide a safe haven
fora fugitive. When Vymorna falls, though, itll take
all of the Axehead Plains with it, worse luck. Now,
about these Lizard Men of yours . . .’ Turn to 79.

241
The Goblins are well behind you but the river is now
rough with white-water rapids, which are making
headway difficult. Will you keep going (turn to 364),
or pull over to the bank (turn to 317)?
242-243

242
You creep carefully between the trees to where the
birds were wheeling. Ugh! Up ahead is a most grisly
sight. The body of a lightly armoured warrior,
obviously an explorer or adventurer, is pinned to
the trunk of a tree by arrows and spears. Worse, his
chest has been slashed by a huge set of claws that
could only belong to something like a very large
tiger! The explorer’s pack holds some dried rations,
which count as 2 Provisions and which you may
take with you if you wish (make a note on your
Adventure Sheet if you decide to do so). After all, you
morbidly reflect, he won’t be needing them where
he’s gone. Turn to 8a.

243
You pull yourself up into the tree. There’s a small

hollow in the branches, and lying in it is a large
man-sized bundle wrapped up in leaves and vines.
Will you investigate this strange object (turn to 394),
or climb back down and take the bridge (turn to

199)?

244-246

244
The passageway narrows until it is just wide

enough for you to squeeze down. The smocth walls
turn rough and you seem to be heading deep into
the mountainside! Suddenly the tunnel stops in a
small, dusty chamber. There is nothing in the
chamber, and no exits lead from it. Thank Telak you
weren't trapped in here by the Lizard Men. You
shudder, and squeeze your way back to the junction
to take the other way. Turn to 395.

245
The sun scorches your neck and arms again as you

cut your path away from the temple, glad that you
brought your trusty hunting-knife with you. Turn
to 204.

246
The door creaks open after a lot of pushing to reveal
a small, rubble-strewn corridor, which leads off into
the darkness. Will you go on (turn to 276), or retrace
your steps and explore behind the curtain (turn to
14)?

247-248

247

The riders throw back their hoods and you gasp in
amazement. They are Snakemen, cruel raiders from
the western desert lands! Katya faints clean away,
her fears confirmed. You prepare to fight them but
there’s no contest against four such warriors. They
Stake you and the prone body of Katya out in the
sun and ride away, never having said a word. The
hot sun rises higher and higher in the sky. After
only a few minutes, you are desperate for shade and
water. For a while you manage to croak some feeble
cies for help, but soon your throat is so dry no
sound comes. The hours go by. Night comes and
goes. Around noon on the fourth day Katya dies.
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 156. If you
are Unlucky, turn to 72.

248

Laskar grabs the bundle from you and unwraps it,
his eyes lighting up greedily. ‘Now, you innocent
fool! Do you have the Eyes too?’ demands the old
hermit in a crazed voice. You reach into your pack
and retrieve whatever gemstones you found on
your travels. (If you have no gems, turn to 57.) With
a disdainful gesture you scatter them across the
floor. Laskar dives for them with a mad shout and
you lash out at him. Roll two dice. If you roll higher
than your SKILL score, turn to 57. If you roll less
than or equal to your SKILL score, turn to 46.

249-252

249
‘Some very rare black lotus,’ you declare solemnly,
He looks at you, then at the lotus, then back at you,
then erupts in a fit of giggling. He reaches behind
him-and opens a large sack to reveal it absolutely
brimming with black lotus flowers!

‘’'m sorry. It may be worth a king’s ransom in the
frozen north, but here it’s more plentiful than grass,
and I have enough to beautify the ugly girls of half a
continent!’ Turn to 11 and choose again.

250
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 325. If you
are Unlucky, turn to 66.

251
The sun rises, but the mist remains, hanging lan-
guidly in the damp air. It is very, very quiet, and
rather spooky. Will you keep heading east (turn to
354), or go north instead (turn to 300)?

252
The Black Panther flops down on to the branch like a
city cat wanting to be stroked, only an arm’s length
from you, and proceeds to rip apart and eat the
deer. You shiver in the darkness, hardly daring to
breathe, as it crunches and hacks at the carcass with
worrying dexterity. After two hours or so, the great

253-254

beast stands and tidily pushes the bones of its meal
off the branch. It stretches, arching its back, and
strides off into the darkness. As it reaches the edge
of the moonlight, though, it turns and sniffs the air,
and stares right at where you are hiding. It fixes
your eyes with its own, blinks once, nods its head
slightly, and then leaps away into the night. You
have had a lucky escape. Should you ever encounter
a creature with such eyes again you may turn, if you
wish, to paragraph 142 instead of to those to which
you are directed. Make a note of that number on
your Adventure Sheet, and then tum to 44.

a3
You hurry back up the narrow passageway to the
chamber with the stairs. Pausing just a moment to
get your breath back, you head on up the stairs.
Turn to 301.

254

You jabber something along the lines of, ‘Oh, my
lady, your most humble servant apologizes for his
rude intrusion!’ Bowing low before the astonished
creature, you step backwards, making to leave the
tent. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, you leave the
tent safely (turn to 319). If you are Unlucky, she
reacts angrily and attacks you (turn to 149).

255-256

255

A set of crumbling steps leads up to a large door
marked with strange, arcane symbols. You listen
carefully at the door and hear a sound like metal
coins being rubbed together. You ready your
sword, take a deep breath, and kick the door. There
is a massive thump, but the door remains closed.
From inside the room comes a crashing sound. You
kick the door again and again, but nothing will
budge it. Then, to your horror, the door is flung
open with a resounding crash. There, in front of
you, is a terrifying sight. Framed in the doorway
stands a Warrior-king from lost ages past. He has
been dead a long time, but something has resur-
rected him and set him to guard this ancient room.
He carries a long javelin, poised ready to thrust at
you, and on his head sits a jagged crown studded
with emeralds. You must fight him.

WARRIOR-KING SKILL 10 STAMINA 11

If you defeat this ancient hero, turn to 326.

nung

Teme! at

3
3
=
>
=
P
=
~
-
>
&
e
-
=
—
=
=
-
~
a
-
2
=
-
‘=
-
-
-
=

rte ay

256
‘Aha!’ White-eye declares. ‘Now this ts interesting!
Who would ever have thought that such a pretty
thing could be made of lead? Yes, I'll take this, with
many thanks.’ Turn to 191.

‘ieee

ee ee ee
257-259

257

You trudge on. Every few seconds, it seems, you
wipe the perspiration from your forehead, but a few
moments later it is back. The ground slowly rises,
becoming rougher and more broken. After a while
you are having to scramble around large boulders
and clamber up steep inclines, From ahead of you
there sounds the bellowing roar of some large beast.
You have no choice but to journey on, Unexpectedly
you find yourself at the top of a rise; the ground
slants sharply down into a depression. And down
there, grazing, is a Triceratops, a truly enormous
three-horned armoured dinosaur. You can’t really
hope to sneak past it, surely, but perhaps you
would like to try (turn to 207)? Or maybe you would
rather walk along the ridge in search of a detour
(turn to 327)?

258
The rubble gives way and you are falling. In a panic
you grab out and manage to connect with a slat of
wood hanging over the edge. And then that gives
way and you fall to your doom.

259

As it loses the evil spark that animated it, the ancient
body crumples to the floor, shattering into frag-
ments of brown dust. All that is left is a rusting suit
of antique armour and a tarnished crown holding
two emeralds, Do you prise out the gemstones (turn
to 197), or would you rather leave and continue your
exploration (turn to 310)?

260-263

260

At the last minute, the beast shies nervously away,
rearing up in fright. Unused to such an action, you
fall backwards from the saddle and land heavily, the
wind knocked out of you. You look up into a forest
of spear- and sword-points, and you know the
Lizard Men will not accept your surrender. Your
quest is at an end before it ever really started.

261
You push through the ruined doors of a huge ware-
house ~ and immediately regret it! The floor of the
building is swarming with rats: huge, black, shabby
Wharf Rats, which are making short work of a stray
dog. Will you fight your way through them (turn to
315), or try to escape (tum to 126)?

262
Your heart sinks as you watch the arrow fall short
and land harmlessly in some bushes. There is no
time to prepare and fire another one. Desperate
action is called for. Will you run forward to light the
trap with a taper (turn to 214), or try to flee the copse
on foot (turn to 340)?

263
With a victorious shout you burst free of the enemy
lines and run off towards the open plains. A few
Lizard Men and Trolls give chase, but they are
swiftly caught and dealt with by your fellows. As
vou sprint away, you hear their war-cries spurting
you on. Add 1 LUCK point and turn to §3.
264~265

264

You glance about frantically, the footsteps making
you panicky and confused. There is nowhere to
hide in here . . . and then you see it, a large metal
ring with a key attached to it, lying half-hidden
amid some dusty trash a few paces away. You grab
it, fumble with the lock, and then it’s open! You
escape. Turn to 216.

265
This Orc is huge, brown-skinned and brawny.
What’s more, the shaman is so angry at having a
‘yooman’ at his ceremony that he joins in too! The
other Orcs are too drunk to join in, but you must
fight these two.

SKILL STAMINA
ANGRY ORC 6 9
SEETHING SHAMAN 6 5

If you somehow defeat the two livid humanoids,
tum to 230.

266—267

266

You flatten against the wall, but from behind you
there comes a clattering sound. The two Orcs are
upon you! You must fight both of them at once.

SKILL STAMINA
First MARSH ORC 6 7
Second MARSH ORC 6 6

If you defeat them both, turn to 379.

267

The slope turns into steep steps. With your sword
in one hand and your lantern in the other, arms
outstretched for balance, you carefully clamber
down the twisting steps until you reach a fair-sized
chamber. Its walls are carved with intricate
patterns, which seem to detail legendary events
from ancient history. There is also a small altar,
decorated with sunbeams and other symbols of the
sun goddess, The room is littered with debris and
dust, but apart from the odd spider weaving yet
another cobweb there is nothing of interest to you
here. There are two exits from this room: a wide
archway covered by a large rotting curtain (turn to
14), and a small metal-bound door, which hangs
half off its hinges, to your right (turn to 246).

—
268-269

268
You creep up to the gaudy caravan and rap on the
frame beside the curtained door. From inside you
hear sounds of something bustling about, and then
the curtain is pulled back. A very brown, wizened
old face with milky-white eyes peers out at you,
bearing a welcoming grin. The old man snorts in a
peculiar fashion, and beckons you to enter, saying,
‘Ah, there you are! Come in! Come in! Don’t stand
out there ali day!’ Surprised, you climb the small
steps and enter. Turn to 61.

269

The statues are finally shattered and smashed — but
at quite a high cost to your sword, which is notched
and blunted. Reduce your Attack Strength by 1. You
listen at the door, and hear creaking, like a door
blowing in the wind. You listen again, but the noise
has stopped. Gripping your sword, you push open
the door. Turn to 153.

270-272

270
The wind whistles about you, but all you can think
of is the pair of gigantic claws digging into your
shoulders. The smell is pretty foul, too, like the
inside of a hen-house. And then the claws open,
and you are falling. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 231, If you are Unlucky, you fall, fall, fall.
Your adventure is over before it ever really began.

271
The passage is buckled and twisted, leading away
fora short distance before it forks to the left. Straight
ahead, the passage narrows and a thin set of steps
twists up. The left-hand passage is littered with
fallen rocks, but levels off after only a few paces.
Will you continue ahead (turn to 154) or fork left
(turn to 353)?

272
The land is rough and hilly, and the weather very
warm, but Katya, your travelling companion, is
cheering you up with her talk of life in Coppertown
and the northern parts of the Axehead Plains. As
you ride, you gaze out over the baking land. Away
to the north a small dust cloud is getting larger by
the minute, Someone — or something — is riding
towards you at high speed. Katya hasn’t met any-
one on the road for two days, and doesn’t know
who it could be. Will you keep to your path (turn to
176) or find somewhere to hide before the riders
arrive (turn to 227)?

273—275

273
The Black Panther sees you, snarls, and the moon-

light glints on its claws as it leaps at you.
BLACK PANTHER
If you defeat the great beast, turn to 44.

SKILL 10 STAMINA 10

274

You carefully pull open one of the towering double
doors and slip through. A wide corridor leads away
into the darkness, twisted at such an angle that you
have great trouble walking along it. It is also littered
with rubble, and the left-hand wall looks very un-
safe. The passage turns night after twenty paces or
so, and down some well-worn steps. You creep
down carefully, managing to avoid the worst
tubble. Now you come toa T-junction. Will you take
the left passage (turn to 312) or the right (turn to
196)?

275

You have been so busy fighting off the Swamp
Goblins that you have failed to notice the white
waves, which you are now fighting to row against.
You have come to an area of white-water rapids,
where many keel-splitting rocks lurk just beneath
the surface. Will you push harder against the flow
and continue up-stream (turn to 364), or steer a tack
for the side (turn to 317)?

276-278

276
And then. . . Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn
to 281. If you are Unlucky, turn to 304.

277
The trenches divide again. To the right there are
signs that it is a new construction, for the earth is
fresh and dark. The noise of battle is getting closer.

Will you take the night (tum to 123) or the left trench
(turn to 18)?

278
You hack down a large bundle of branches and wide
leaves, and lay them out like a mat on the damp
ground. As you work, the sun sets and the cool
jungle dusk is suddenly upon you. As darkness

falls, the only sound you can hear is the lapping of
the water just an arm’slengthaway. And then, from
.. lurn to 372.

the water .

279-280

279

You find some fleshy orange and yellow fruits that
prove edible (you may replenish up to2 Provisions).
While you are picking them, youalso happen across
a very beautiful flower — a black lotus, long fabled
for its scent and rarity. H-you wish, you may pickit
and take it with you before returning to the path.
Turn to 257.

280
The repulsive body of the Lizard Woman crashes
into her fragrant mud-bath, You gaze around the
tent. It is decorated in appalling taste, but sitting on
an occasional table constructed from an enormous
crocodile skull is a small pot bearing the legend
‘Black Lotus from Kaynlesh-Ma‘. You may take it, if
you wish (note it on your Adventure Sheet). Turn to

319.

“a,

rep rn i

281-283

281
Just in time, you stop yourself from falling as the
floor gives way to reveal a deep hole, an old well,
perhaps. Rubble bounces down into the measure-
less depths. You could retrace your steps and leave
the larger room by the other exit (turn to 14). Other-
wise you must jump the well. Roll two dice. Lf you
roll higher than your SKILL score, turn to 334. If you
Toll less than or equal to your SKILL score, turn tog5.

282
Cutting away the plants, you find a pile of smooth,
worked stones. No, not a pile —a wall. It seems that
people actually lived and built in the midst of this
dense jungle. Will you investigate further (turn to
342), or set off again on your journey (turn to 97)?

283
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 83. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 157.
284

You and the strange man set an ambush for the
eight Lizard Men pursuing you. You may use as
many arrows as you have left and kill one Lizard
Man with each arrow. Your companion picks off
two more with his arrows. Then, from the low
branch of a nearby tree, the Sabre-toothed Tiger
leaps down at the inhuman enemy. The mounts of
the remaining Lizard Men shy away, turn and flee.
Snag chases after them for a while without catching
any, then gives up and returns to the scene of the
battle. It sniffs the Lizard Man corpses for a moment
before turning up its nose and trotting back to its
master. Turn to 240.

285

White-eye simply steps back from you and makes a
weird clicking noise with his tongue. From the
flickering candles in every corner of the room flames
shoot towards the ceiling and coalesce into a glow-
ing light, which flows around your head. A scream-
ing whistle grows in your head as the Guardian
Spint engages you in mind combat.

GUARDIAN SPIRIT

STAMINA 16

286-287

Fight as normal, but instead of comparing SKILL
with one die roll, the opponents in a mental fight
roll two dice and add the result to their STAMINA
score to find their Mental Attack Strength. The
opponent with the lower score loses two STAMINA
points as in a normal fight. If you defeat the
Guardian Spirit it will fade away into nothingness.
Turn to 328.

286
The rubble gives way beneath your feet and sud-
denly you are falling into a hole. You flail about in
panic, and manage to catch hold of a plank of wood
hanging from the side - which gives way, and you
plummet down the ancient well to your doom.

287

The foul, alcohoi-sodden Ores greet you as one of
their own, giving you plenty of smelly hugs and
prods. None of them seems to be in any state to
realize that you are in disguise. One very deaf old
Orc leans over to you and bellows in your ear.
‘“Oose sprogling are yoo, then? I naint seen yoo
before!’ The party goes deathly quiet. Who will you
say you are:

Your real name? Turn to 66
Shagbad, child of Skurfric? Turn to 360
Ugrat, child of Kuzbag? Turn to 163

288~—291

288
With a shock of impact that sets your arm ringing, a
massive Cave Troll in Lizard Man livery careers into
you, stopping you in your tracks. Battle is joined.

CAVE TROLL
If you defeat this powerful enemy, turn to 23.

SKILL § STAMINA 9

289

Immediately it is very cool —- and very dark. You
light your lantern and peer about you. The passage
is decorated with rows of statues, now toppled and
smashed, The floor beneath your feet may once
have been a flight of steps, worn smooth to a
shallow slope, which climbs down into another
covered courtyard. From here lead off two pas-
sages, both dark and uninviting. Will you take the
one to the right (turn to 171) or to the left (turn to
267)?

290
The ground becomes more rolling and grassy. You
leap a small rocky stream and bound off towards a
copse. Would you rather avoid the trees (turn to
201) or head straight for them (turn to 303)?

291
The web twists tighter and tighter around you until
you are completely immobile. The only parts you
can move are your eyes, which slowly widen in
sheer terror as the Wasp Spider begins to feed. Your
adventure ends here.

292-293

292 :
You grab your rucksack, dive for the liana, swin
down and hit the ground at a run, expecting every
moment to fee] the dull thud of arrows into your
back. There are howls of anger but nothing follows
you. By mid-afternoon, when you stop to pick more
fruit for your Provisions, you are well away from the
area. You are annoyed that your rucksack is empty,
but at least you have something to carry your
supplies in (cross off everything except your sword,
knife and rucksack from your Adventure Sheet).
While you are eating, you hear a loud flapping
coming from through the trees. Test your Luck. If you
are Lucky, tum to 186. If you are Unlucky, tum to

99.

293
The ruby slips into the hilt of your sword, glowing
dully in the semi-darkness. With a howl for
vengeance you leap for Laskar. The old man looks
momentarily horrified, but parries your blow easily
with his staff! Where is the fabled power of the
weapon? An arrow thumps into your shoulder,
another into your leg. You drop to the ground and
the Lizard Men close in, swords raised for their final
blows. Your quest is at an end.

294-296

294

You are now deep inside the enemy camp, and you
must be even more vigilant. Looking back, you can
see a tremendous battle raging away on the western
side of Vymorna. Close by, though, a large catapult
is bombarding the city with blazing bales. Will you
sneak on (turn to 363), or try to find some way to put
this siege engine out of action (turn to 116)?

295
Suddenly an angry shout comes from the direction
of the north bank and instinctively you dive for the
bottom of the boat. Arrows thud into the wood. Roll
one die. If you roll 1-2 you are hit by an arrow:
deduct 2 STAMINA points. By the time you peer out
again your boat has floated past the danger. In the
centre of the river a huge galley sculls by, and
disappears into the haze again. Thanking your stars
that you chose to hug the bank, you row on. Turn to

376.

296
Stepping over fresh bodies, you sneak along the
trenches. The route divides, but you keep on head-
ing in what you hope is the same direction. You
meet another junction; as you stand deciding which
way to go, a noise comes from the right-hand
trench. Will you stay back in the shadows and listen
to find out who it is (turn to 338), or leap out and
challenge them (turn to 43)?
297-299

297

You step into the next chamber — and find more of
the same: rows and rows of bodies, all neatly
arranged in racks. Your nerves begin to ache with
the effort of remaining calm as you carefully tiptoe
through into the third chamber. Here some up-
heaval has thrown rotting corpses and bare
skeletons across the floor, where they lie in a gro-
tesque tangle. Shuddering, you pick your way
across the room. Turn to 323.

298

Your arms are strong and manage to pull your boat
clear of the current. You beach the small craft
against the north shore and remove all your equip-
ment, You may stop here and eat some Provisions
while you take in your surroundings. Youare on the
edge of the jungle: you may either plunge straight
into the jungle and head east (turn to 175), Or you
could head north along the fringes of the jungle
before tuming east further on (turn to 27),

299
‘Telaakk! Teellaaaaaghkk!’ echoes back at you, but
in voices tinged with sardonic laughter. ‘Courage!
Swords! Pride! All bring DEAAATHHHHH''
Turn to 7.

300—302

300
The country north of Capra is gently rolling downs,
but a deep, morning mist hides most of it. It is cool,
and just a tinge spooky, too! Still, in the quiet you
should be able to hear anyone approaching you.
You trudge north. By mid-morning the mist still
shows no sign of lifting. And then, from up ahead, a
bell starts to toll. You pause, thinking you imagined
it. No, there it goes again! That's funny, you think,
no one in Capra mentioned any settlements along
this route. You decide to investigate. Are you in
disguise (turn to 122) or not (turn to 369)?

301
The staircase spirals on up, though thankfully its
condition is not too bad. Eventually, after a taxing
climb, you reach the top, where your way is barred
by another small metal-bound door. You sneak
through, into a dingy anteroom. Through an arch-
way you can see into the temple. Laskar is standing,
his back towards you, as if contemplating the small
altar before him. Will you enter and join him (turn to
217) or wait a moment so as not to disturb him (turn
to 140)?

302
As the horse reaches your tree, you leap out with a
cry. [tisa woman, obviously human, and dressed in
a dusty messenger’s uniform. She is startled, and
goes to draw her sword. Will you attack her (turn to
384) or lower your weapon and greet her (turn to

396)?

393-394

303

You are nearly at the copse, and you seem to be
escaping from your pursuers. And then, against all
the odds, there’s the rush of an arrow from the trees
and your mount falls from under you! You tumble to
the ground, cursing yourluck. A man appears from
behind a tree, a bow in his hand, and peers at you as
if working out whether or not you survived. You
pick yourself up and dust yourself down, unable to
believe what has happened! Will you stand to face
the Lizard Men (turn to 189) or run for the trees (turn
to 209)?

304
The rubble gives way and suddenly you fall into a
hole that has opened up beneath your feet. You flail
wildly and manage to catch hold of a plank of wood
hanging from the side. Then that gives way and you
fall down the ancient well. . . to your doom.

305~306

305

You turn round and head back in what you are
certain is the direction of Capra. The mist is very
confusing, though, and you are not at ail sure that
you are going in the right direction. The howling
starts again, this time to the south of you, though
you cannot decide how far away. Every part of you
is saying ‘RUN! and you are barely controlling your
fear. Hold it! Haven’t you passed those bushes
before? Are you walking in circles now? You could
continue walking (turn to 102), or stop here and
hope the mist eventually lifts (turn to 398).

306
Your sword shatters, smashed into several pieces by
a vicious blow from your opponent. You reach for
the dagger at your belt, but another blow connects
with your head. An arrow thuds into your wrist and
you drop your dagger. The third blow comes and
you fall face down in the blood-red mud.
307-308

3097

The afternoon sun is very wamn, but it’s quite
pleasant in the shade. Just a brief pause, you
promise yourself, unbuckling your sword and
laying it beside you. You close your eyes. The trees
rustle in the breeze, though you don’t feel it on your
face. You open one eye, to see your sword, still in its
scabbard, apparently moving across the grass under
its own steam! You spring to your feet. All around
you, swinging in the branches, are hordes of small
six-limbed monkeys — Krells! As you move they start
chattering excitedly, and the noise is deafening! The
one dragging away your sword is just about to
swing off into the trees. Will you leap and attack it
with your knife {turn to 332), shoot it with an arrow
from your father’s bow, if you have it (turn to 390),
or simply chase after the creature making a
threatening noise (turn to 20)?

308

The panther-god figurine clunks on to the platform,
and all the warriors gasp the same word: ‘Sku-
Rachi!l’ They kneel, their heads pressed to the floor
in a gesture of total subservience. All, that is, save
the priest, who picks up the figurine, examines it
closely, and draws his knife. You must fight him,
and with your Attack Strength reduced by 2 because
you are unarmed,

WARRIOR PRIEST SKILL 7 STAMINA 6
If you defeat the priest, turn to 336.

309-310

309

As one, the riders throw back their hoods. Snake-
men! The legendary rulers of the Desert of Skulls.
What are they doing so far east? Four Caarth against
one human is no contest, and soon you are feeling
their rough scaly hands staking you out under the
hot sun. The Snakemen ride away, never having
uttered a single word, and leave you to the circling
vultures. You lie out under the burning rays of the
sun, at first calling weakly for help but soon becom-
ing so parched you cannot utter a word. You feel
yourself becoming delirious, but manage a prayer to
Telak. Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 156. If
you are Unlucky, you will not survive, and your
adventure must end here.

310
You push open the door at the far end of the room,
and find yourself looking down a flight of crumbling
Stairs. You carefully pick your way down, and fol-
low the passage that leads from them to an old and
dusty room, again littered with small pieces of
rubble from its cracked ceiling and walls. In a far
corner, what appears to be a statue or may be a
fountain casts grotesque shadows in the lantern-
light. You may examine this (turn to 50), or leave by
the dark passage which leads off opposite (turn to

271).

311-313

311
You push away the remains of the door and peer
into the room, which is angled so steeply that it is
almost completely on its side and is full of statues
and idols. They lie piled high, scattered across the
floor like bodies in the aftermath of a battle. There is
an exit on the far left wall. You may enter the room
to which it leads (turn to 138), or retrace your steps

(turn to 353).

312

After you have gone ten paces or so, the corridor
opens out into an almost level-floored chamber only
a few paces across. A stone bench is set into the wall
on either side of you, and opposite you steps lead
down into the darkness. You may rest here and eat
some Provisions (check your Adventure Sheet), if you
wish. Turn to 2.

313
A guard looks up and sees you. You look back at
him, and then you both grab for your weapons and
rush to attack!

LIZARD MAN
GUARD SKILL 8

If you defeat him, turn to 181.

STAMINA 9

314-317

314
Keeping close to the northern shore, you paddle
against the gentle current of the slow-moving river.
The river-bank is sparsely vegetated at first, but
the trees become thicker as you come closer to the
jungle. There is no sign of any more Lizard Men, but
you keep a wary eye open anyway. Turn to 295.

315
The Wharf Rats squeak in terror, and scuttle back
into the rubble. You are amazed, but you will not
stick around for too long in case they come back.
Turn to 203.

316
You hastily dive down behind a convenient pile of
bartels. There is a clamour of voices very near by: a
high-pitched squeaking and a deep growling, both
speaking the guttural Lizard Man language. Will
you keep your head down (turn to 134), or give in to
your curiosity and have a peep (turn to 86)?

317
The current becomes very strong alongside the
river-bank, whipping the water into a small whirl-
pool that threatens to wreck your flimsy craft. Roll
two dice. If you roll higher than your sKIL1 score,
turn to 364. If you roll less than or equal to your
SKILL score, firn to 298.

318-319

318
The Pterodacty! plummets to the ground, but
unfortunately the Lizard Man leaps clear, and races
towards you in anger.

LIZARD MAN
If you defeat the Lizard Man, tum to 164.

SKILL 6 STAMINA 8

319

Shuddering at your close shave, you pick your way
through the maze of tents, baggage carts and piles
of stores, which make up the Lizard Men’s camp.
You‘re nearing its edge and, with luck, will soon be
free of the siege. Now if only you had a mount, you
could put a great distance between yourself and the
enemy in a very short time. Just as you are thinking
this, you notice a set of pens up ahead holding a
variety of animal mounts! Do you want to investi-
gate further (turn to 148), or would you rather creep
round it (turn to 237)?

320-321

320
With a howl, a band of warriors clad in panther skins
swing down at you from the trees, brandishing long
knives fashioned like tiger claws. Before you have
ime to react your arm is nicked by one of the knives.
Deduct 2 STAMINA points. You recover, draw your
sword, and leap to the attack. There are five war-
nors in all, and you must fight them two at a time.
Each time a warrior falls another takes his place;
they all have the same SKILL and STAMINA scores.

PANTHER each SKILL5 STAMINA6
WARRIORS

If you take two consecutive hits or your STAMINA
score drops to 4 or less, turn to 381. If you defeat the
warriors, turn to 155.

321
Roll two dice. If you roll higher than your skILL
score, Eurn to go. If you roll less than or equal to your
SKILL score, turn to 216.

322-323

322
Disgustingly deformed, a mutant Lizard Man pulls
its stunted, misshapen body from the mud and
leaps to the attack!

MUTANT
LIZARD MAN sKILL 6

If it scores two consecutive hits against you, turn to
162. If you score two consecutive hits against it or
kill it, roll one die. If you roll 1-2, turn to 208; 3-4,
turn to 192; 5-6, turn to 172.

STAMINA 6

323

You reach the other side of the room, although
every moment you expect a ghastly skeletal hand to
clutch at you, an animated skull to bite at you! The
next chamber is in even worse condition than the
last one, with bones and rubble scattered every-
where. There are three exits: an arch to the left (turn
to 125), another arch to the right (turn to 41), and a
small tunnel that leads away directly ahead of
where you came in (turn to 67).

324-325

324
The warriors smother you, pushing you to the
ground so that they can bind you with tough vines.
You are marched through the jungle until you come
to a very large tree, whereupon a vine is attached to
your waist and you are dragged up into the
branches. Despite your initial shock at being so high
above the ground, and the obvious danger of your
predicament, you are intrigued by the platforms
and rope-bridges which the warriors have built up
in the tree-tops. A tall, white-haired elder, obvi-
ously, from his dress, the high priest or shaman,
approaches you and stares deep into your eyes. If
you have stared into another creature’s eyes
recently you will know of a section to turn to, He
then takes your rucksack and shakes it out on to the
floor and paws through it. Do you have a panther
idol? If you do, turn to 308; if you do not, turn to 75.

325
No one seems to notice. You make what you think
are convincingly disgusting lip-licking noises, and
keep your head downas if in deep thought. But now
is the time when everyone meets the assembled
relatives. Would you rather try to make a break for
freedom (turn to 66), or not (turn to 287)?

326-327

326

As it loses the evil spark that animated it, the ancient
body crumples to the floor, shattering into frag-
ments of brown dust. Al that is left is a rusting suit
of antique armour and a tarnished crown holding
two emeralds. You may prise out the gemstones
(turn to 226), or perhaps you would rather leave and
continue your exploration (turn to 78).

327

The ridge circles around the depression, heading for
a thick clump of trees. The first trees are young
saplings, but soon you come to larger, thick-
trunked trees. You brush against one of them, and
almost leap out of your skin as it moves and an
enormous Tyrannosaurus Rex rises from among the
trees! Your heart sinks into your boots. What can
you do? Roll two dice. If you roll higher than your
SKILL score, you must attack the creature (turn to
132). If you roll less than or equal to your SKILL
score, you may be able to try something else (turn to
81}.

328-329

328

‘You hot-headed young fool!’ thunders White-eye.
‘There was no need for such violence. You have
taken something that was mine, and destroyed it,
too! Now I claim something of yours in fair ex-
change. What will you trade me for the life of a
living being?’ The old man looks so angry you feel
desperately ashamed for what you have done, but
all you can do is reach into your pack and give him
two items, if you have any, orif you have nothing he
will accept all your Provisions. ‘Now leave im-
mediately!’ he rages at you. Deduct 1 LUCK point
and turn to 233.

329

The far corner of the room is crumbled and battered,
and a trail of loose dirt shows where the Slug
probably entered. You tiptoe round the edge of the
rubble, keeping an eye open for a second monster,
until you come to the double doors. The Slug has
finished the first set of curtains, and is now slither-
ing towards those hanging over the second alcove.
Will you attack the creature (turn to 375) or leave the
room to continue your exploration (turn to 274)?
339-331

330

After several hours of hacking your way through
the jungle you seem to be making very little pro-
gress, and your morale is falling rapidly. Eventual-
ly, though, you come to where the land dips. Ahead
of you is more thick jungle, but running alongside it
is a shallow depression, several leagues long, which
is marshy and damp. Will you continue through the
jungle (turn to 397) or follow the depression (turn to
117)?

331
The sun is higher in the sky, and you are becoming
very weary. You were not cut out for such long treks
by your courtly upbringing! You would very much
like to stop and rest awhile, but up ahead a scragey
bunch of vultures seems to be circling above some-
thing hidden from sight by the trees. Will you see
what has attracted their attention (turn to 242) or
continue your march (turn to 80)?

332

332
The Krell swings down into the lower branches,

screeching and swiping at you. Two more of the
creatures spring down to aid it, and suddenly you
have a battle on your ands. You must fight all three
at once.

SKILL STAMINA
First KRELL 5 4
Second KRELL 6 5
Third KRELL 5 6

If you defeat these three, the rest will run off and
you can retrieve your precious sword before moving
on. Turn to 221.

Ts fF =
333-335

333

And suddenly the roar of battle ceases, and the
ranks of warriors part. Atop a mound of human
bodies, right at the centre of the fighting, is the
Lizard Man Champion. Nearly three metres tall,
four-armed and splattered with gore, the immense
creature is swinging a barbaric war-axe and a huge
knife larger than your own sword. The Champion
howls insanely, drunk with blood-lust, calling on
any brave warrior to challenge him to a fight. Will
you step forward to take him on (turn to 26), or take
advantage of the distraction to break through the
lines (turn to 213)?

334
The rubble gives way and suddenly you fall into the

hole. You flail wildly and manage to catch hold of a
plank of wood hanging from the side. Then that
gives way and you plummet down the ancient well
.. . to your doom.

335
The chest rattles — there’s something inside it!

Examining it closely, you notice it has a Z-shaped
lock. If you have a key of that shape, turn to 101. If
you would rather try to smash it open, turn to 127.
336-338

336
You dive for your sword and rucksack, grab a vine

and swing down from the platform. You hit the
ground running, expecting a hail of darts to thump
into your back with every step. However, nothing
follows you but a few angry howls and shrieks, and
as the ground begins to rise into the foothills of the
Lion Heights you feel safe enough to slow your pace
to a trot. By mid-afternoon the ground is rising
steadily and the trail is becoming steeper. You stop
to eat some Provisions in the shade of a large
thorn-bush. As you are munching a large, sweet
fruit you hear the sound of heavy flapping wings.
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 186. If you
are Unlucky turn to gg.

337
As the creatures die they fade away into nothing,

leaving you alone in the room of statues. You re-
trieve the jet eyes and your lantern, and leave the
room. The passage leads off at a very acute angle,
and you find yourself walking more on what used to
be the wall than on the floor. Turn to 152.

338
You hang back in the shadows and watch excitedly
as three stooped, hooded figures creep by. Will you
attack them (turn to 43) or wait for them to dis-
appear before taking the right trench (turn to 206) or
the left (turn to 277)?

339-341

You manage to evade the boats, but they give chase.
Roll one die. If you roll 1-3, you are hit by as many
blow-pipe darts. Deduct 1 STAMINA point for each,
before you leave the Goblins behind. Turn to 241.

349
You leap on to the horse and urge it with your spurs
to gallop away, but too late: the Lizard Men are
upon you! Turn to 36.

341

As you reach the copse, a hand shoots out and grabs
you, whirling you around. A dagger is held to your
throat and wild eyes stare into yours. ‘Eh? You're
human!’ The man, dressed in furs and with strag-
gling hair and beard, seems very surprised. ‘What
you doin’ ridin’ a lizard? I could’ve killed you!’ You
quickly gabble out the story of your escape from the
city, and that the Lizard Men are chasing you. The
man peers out from behind the tree, taking in the
sight of your pursuers, before returning his atten-
tion to you. Turn to 21.
342-343

You continue to cut a path along the river-bank,
finding more traces of what must have been quite a
substantial settlement many years ago. You follow
the curve of the river for some distance, and then
find yourself in a wide grassy clearing. Gazing
around, you suddenly realize that you are in the
open courtyard of a stone temple, most of which is
covered in vines and undergrowth. Large columns
lie buried under rampant vegetation, and crumbling
stone walls support bushes and small trees. The
place is very quiet and feels almost sacred as though
it had never lost its spiritual atmosphere. Will you
investigate further (turn to 151) or move on (turn to

245)?

343
You are summarily searched and trussed up. You

still have your trusty hunting-knife tucked into your
belt, but you decide to wait for a more opportune
time to escape. The funeral continues, and the Orcs
start to pass around the Guursh, the skull-splitting
Orcish ale, one of the most intoxicating and revolt-
ing substances on Titan. Carefully twisting your
wrists this way and that, you manage to cut the rope
that binds you. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn
to 230. If you are Unlucky, you are noticed and must
fight the Orcs (turn to 265).

344-345

344
White-eye opens the phial and sniffs the purple

liquid. His eyes widen and glaze over; a strange
smile crosses his lips as a look of sheer happiness
transforms his face, He becomes calm again, shak-
ing his head as if to clear his mind. ‘Yes, I will take
this. Thank you,’ he says. You wonder whether you
should have tried the stuff before now, but it is too
late. Turn to 191.

345
You stop yourself just in time as the floor gives way

to reveal a deep hole, an old well perhaps. Rubble
bounces away down into the measureless depths,
You could retrace your steps into the room (turn to
153). Alternatively, you could try to jump. Roll two
dice. If you roll higher than your SKILL score, tum
to 258. If you roll less than or equal to your SKILL
score, turn to 205.
346-347

346

Roll one die — as many hairy spiders bit you as the
result of your roll when you grabbed for the shiny
object. Deduct 1 STAMINA point for each bite.
Luckily, though, you had the presence of mind to
keep hold of the object as you felt the tiny teeth
pricking you. It is a small key, shaped like a Z. You
secrete it in your pack; it may come in useful later.
Now you may explore the other alcove (turn to 119)
or leave the room (turn to 183).

An arrow whistles past your left ear! Oh, Telak, you
think, they’re getting close enough to hit me! The
ground beneath your mount’s sure feet becomes
more rolling. As the lizard leaps a small stream you
notice a copse just up ahead of you. Will you ride for
the copse (turn to 303), or continue on pastit (turn to
201)?

348-349

348

The body of the repulsive creature sinks back into
the swamp with a sucking sound, and you spend an
uncomfortable night perched too close for comfort
to the water’s edge. The morning dawns bright and
glorious, and you wake face down in the soft mud
having succumbed finally to your tiredness, regard-
less of any danger. For a few moments you wonder
why you were afraid to sleep — then the red stain on
the surface of the water near by reminds you. You
wash, and move on. At least there is no trouble
eating in the jungle; you can collect up to your total
of 4 Provisions as you walk along. It should just be
possible now to see the Lion Heights and Telak’s
Mount from the top of a tree; you may care to climb
up (turn to 393), or perhaps you would rather
continue on your way (turn to 170).

349
You spend the rest of the afternoon hastily binding

branches together to build crude barricades to con-
fuse the riders and direct them into the centre of the
copse. Here Lecarte builds a huge bonfire of wood
soaked in oil mixed with something he tells you is
called, ‘Flashpowder: Sulis Vitae from Sardath
Trust me!’ As the sun sets you hear galloping
hoofs, and a band of warriors on riding lizards
thunder out of the dusk. There are all the Lizard
Men who escaped, plus a further six — a very large
band to be taken on by two adventurers and a
Sabre-toothed Tiger! They plunge into the copse
towards your light. As the Lizard Men enter one

350-351

side of the copse, Lecarte and yourself are waiting
on the other. Lecarte blows his horn to distract the
enemy while you let loose a flaming arrow into the
darkness. Roll two dice. If you roll higher than your
SKILL score, turn to 262. If you roll less than or equal
to your SKILL score, turn to 16.

39°
But the mounts are guarded after ali, for as you
unhitch one a bell clangs and you hear a shouted
challenge! You leap on to the back of the lizard and
hare away to the north. Turn to 146.

351
You nervously peer into an alcove, but find only
rotten bones. It is the same story in the next alcove,
and the next. If these corpses were buried with any
jewels or fabulous treasures they were taken a long
time ago, you decide. You will not find Telak’s
missing parts here. You tiptoe on. Turn to 297.
352-353

352

Heart pounding and lungs bursting through trying
not to breathe, you stay as still as you possibly can.
The moon slips from behind a cloud and suddenly
you can see two eyes, two large cat’s eyes. As you
get used to the gloom you realize that the beast is an
immense Black Panther, dragging a small deer up
into the tree to eat! Will you attack it (turn to 273) or
stay as still as you can in the hope thatit will go away
(turn to 252)?

353
The high-vaulted corridor leads past murals depict-
ing the many glorious deeds of Telak Swordbearer
to a set of wide steps, at the top of which are great
double doors, marked with many of Telak’s sym-
bols. Carefully, you listen at the doors, but hear
nothing. With your sword ready in your hand, you
push open one of the doors and stepin. . . Whata
magnificent place! Columns stretch out into the
shadows on both sides. The walls are lined with
weapons and shields, and carved with murals de-
picting many great deeds. At their centre stands a

354

magnificent altar to Telak, which hears a small
plinth holding the largest ruby you've ever seen!
Could this be the Eye of Telak? You glance warily
around you, peering into the shadows. To one side
of the altar there's a smal! door, obviously leading to
the stairs up to where you must meet Laskar, Will
you approach the altar (turn to 229), or leave by the
small door (turn to 87)?

354
You march on, rather enjoying being out in the open

countryside despite the sinister mist, which is
allowing your imagination to work overtime. The
ground is now rolling and prassy, but broken in
places by patches of sand and the occasional stream,
and dotted with many clumps of thorn-bushes.
Suddenly, though, you stop dead as a peculiar
howling drifts down to you on the wind. It seems to
have come from somewhere up ahead , . . or to
your right. . . or to your left. Will you continue on
a way (turn to 102) or retrace your steps (turn to
305)?

355-356

355
You push the door and it gives, but creaks very

loudly. In a panic you dive through before the Slug
can react, and find yourself slipping down a flight of
stone steps just beyond the door. Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, turn to 345. If you are Unlucky, turn
to 286.

356
You cuta track to the river-bank, and wash the sleep
and sweat from your face. You check your equip-
ment, and eat some more Provisions. None of the
plants around here seems to be edible, but you are
guaranteed to find more on your journey. As you
are glancing around at the bushes, though, you
notice something potentially more interesting: a
strange pile of overgrown rocks. Do you investigate
(turn to 282), or set off again on your journey (turn

to 97)?

357

357
The corridor goes only a short way, leading to a

huge brass-bound door. You listen at the door and
hear a sound like metal coins being rubbed together.
You ready your sword, take a deep breath, and kick
the door. There is a massive thump, but the door
remains closed. From inside the room comes a
crashing sound. You kick the door again, and again,
but nothing will budge it. Then to your horror the
door is flung open with a resounding crash. There,
in front of you, is a terrifying sight. Framed in the
doorway stands a Warrior-king from lost ages past.
He has been dead a long time, but something has
resurrected him and set him to guard this ancient
room. He carries a long javelin, poised ready to
thrust at you, and on his head sits a jagged crown
studded with emeralds. You must fight him.

WARRIOR-KING

If you defeat this ancient hero, turn to 259.

SKILL 10 STAMINA I1

_—
—

os
358-360

358

Then you see them - four riders, cloaked and
hooded despite the heat, and mounted on four-
legged lizards. They slow down to a canter as they
approach, and stop at a wary distance from you.
Their faces are hidden by their hoods, Will you greet
them (turn to 383), attack them (turn to 309) or wait
for them to make the first move (turn to 84)?

359
You hear the regular splash of many oars as a large

Lizard Man galley sculls towards you in mid-
stream. As it approaches your position you duck
under the overhanging trees lining the southern
bank, and it sails past without anyone noticing you.
You let a sigh of relief whistle out through your
teeth. Then, out of the corner of your eye, you see
the snake. It must have dropped from one of the
trees, and now it’s slowly slithering its way towards
you across the bottom of the boat. You try to lift it
out with the flat of your oar before it gets too close.
Roll one die. If you roll 1-4, you remove it success-
fully. If you roll 5-6, it bites your hand. Deduct 1
STAMINA point before it is flipped out on to the
bank. Then you paddle on. Turn to 376.

360
‘Never ‘eard of yer!’ the Orc snarls, peering closer.
‘’Ere! Youse nain’t an Orc, youse a yooman!’

‘A yooman?’ goes the cry. A much younger Orc spins
you round, looks at you closely, and draws his club!
You have a fight on your hands. Turn to 265.

ee
361-363

361

You have several options as far as routes and your
method of travelling are concerned. After long dis-
cussions with Vymorna's most learned experts
(those who are still alive, at any rate), it was agreed
that you could leave the city with a band of warriors
who would try to force their way through the enemy
lines and enable you to flee from the besieged city
on foot, heading north and then east to your goal.
Alternatively, you could take the same route but
attempt to leave the city in secret, sneaking through
the enemy lines just before dawn. Finally, you could
sneak down to the docks and attempt to steal a boat,
which would take you a fair distance up the River
Vymorn before you head east to your goal. Will you
try to break out by force (turn to 130), sneak away
before dawn (turn to 93), or try to steal a boat (turn
to 158)?

362
The revolting corpse flops down, oozing colourless
ichor on to the dusty floor, You may now check the
first alcove (turn to 68), the second alcove (turn to
168), or leave the room (turn to 274).

363
You hurry along between the tents, keeping your
head down. As you come to a well-worn path
through the camp, you hear the sound of marching
feet coming along it, You must not be caught out
here in the open. Will you duck into a tent (turn to 8)
or look for somewhere else to hide (turn to 316)?

364-365

364

The water becomes rougher, and a wave swamps
the boat, throwing you overboard. The last thing
you remember is the almighty crash of your boat
hitting some submerged rocks . . . You wake face
down in sand, on the northern bank of the river,
with fragments of your ill-fated craft scattered
around you. Near by the rapids continue to rage.
You get up and check your equipment. Your cloak is
in a sorry state and, if you had any Provisions left,
they are ruined (cross them off your Adventure
Sheet), but everything else seems to be intact. You
rest while you decide which direction to take. You
could head directly east, hacking your way through
the jungle until you reach the Lion Heights (turn to
175), or you could head north along the edge of the
jungle before turning east, which would be a longer
journey but would mean you spend less time in the
jungle (turn to 27).

365
You must fight the two Marsh Orcs together.

SKILL STAMINA
First MARSH ORC 6 7
Second MARSH ORC 6 6

If you defeat them, turn to 379.

366-368

366

You settle behind a tree from where you can see the
caravan. Nothing happens, though, and eventually
you fall asleep. You awake suddenly to find a
wizened old being smiling down at you. You startin
fright, but he calms you, saying, ‘Come, man-child.
Let us go indoors out of the night and find you a
better place to sleep!’ Intrigued and amazed, you
follow him, Turn to 61.

367

As you wait, plucking up the courage to enter the
darkness, you are horrified to see Laskar reach the
far side of the ruins — and be surrounded by Lizard
Men! The creatures march away with the hermit,
and another band has been dispatched in your
direction. This is all the incentive you need to duck
down into the hole and begin your journey through
the darkness. Turn to 289.

368
The Pterodactyl screeches in panic as it sees its
beloved pilot fall to the ground. From away behind
you, among the tents, you hear shouts and foot-
steps. You must get out of here right away. Will you
leap on to the back of the Pterodactyl (turn to 387) or
will you try for a riding lizard (turn to 146)?

369-371

369

The ground rises to a small hillock dotted with
sparse patches of thorn-bushes and trees. At the
crest of the hill a motley group stands gathered
around a large funeral bier. Looking closely you can
see that, despite the veils and other dark clothes, the
mourners are all Orcs! To one side a bizarrely
dressed shaman leaps and capers, throwing bones
and entrails to the winds in honour of the dead. You
could creep closer still and take a better look, or just
trek on. While you are deciding, Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, turn to 118. If you are Unlucky, turn
to 66.

370
Roll two dice. If you roll higher than your sKILL
score, turn to 291. If you roll less than or equal to
your SKILL score, turn to 3.

371

The diamond slips into the hilt of your sword,
glowing dully in the semi-darkness, With a howl of
vengeance you leap for Laskar. The old man looks
momentarily horrified, but parries your blow easily
with his staff. Where is the fabled power of the
sword? An arrow thumps into your shoulder,
another into your leg. You drop to the ground and
the Lizard Men close in, swords raised for their final
blows. Your quest is at an end.
372-373

372

And then, from the water, bursts the most repulsive
creature you have ever seen. It’s a sickly white all
over, like the soft underbelly of a crocodile, and
indeed the Swamp Mutant shares many of the
crocodile’s characteristics. It rears up on strong hind
legs and snaps at you with a mutated alligator head.
All you can do is to bring your sword up to meet its
first attack.

SWAMP MUTANT — SKILL10 STAMINA 16
If you defeat the monstrous creature, turn to 348.

373
You duck back into the shadows, fumbling for the

sword. You are certain that a gemstone should fit
into the hilt of the weapon. If you haven’t found any
gems on your travels, turn to 28. If you have found
some, which will you try to fit into the hilt of the
sword, hoping they will be the Eyes of Telak:

The diamond? Turn to 371
The emeralds? Turn to 228
The jets? Turn to 173

The ruby? Turn to 293

374-375

374
You find some fleshy orange and yellow fruits,

which prove edible (these count as 2 Provisions).
While you are searching about in the undergrowth
you also come across a beautiful flower — a black
lotus, long fabled for its scent and rarity. You may
take it with you, if you wish, before returning to the
path and continuing your journey. Turn to 169.

375
The Giant Slug sees you, and starts to lumber across

the rubble towards you. It is a truly repulsive crea-
ture, dripping slime and spittle from its mouth as it
ripples along. As it is a very slow-moving creature,
you may have time to loose an arrow at it. If you
have a bow, turn to 224. Otherwise you will have to
fight it using your sword, although, because of its
thick skin, your blows will only do it 1 stTAMINA
point of damage.

GIANT SLUG SKILL 6
If you defeat it, turn to 362.

STAMINA 12

376-377

376

Giving thanks to Telak for ensuring your safety
(though it was a very close shave), you paddle on
up-river. The Vymorn sweeps north in a wide,
slow-moving curve, and you have no trouble guid-
ing your small craft along. The river curves again,
heading east. You paddle along keeping an eye
open both sides for any sign of trouble. After an
hour or so the river is joined by a tributary fowing
from the south; the Lizard River flows from the
depths of Silur Cha. As you pass the place where it
joins the Vymorn you give thanks that you are not
having to go up that waterway. It is at this moment
that you notice three boats heading towards you
from the southern shore. Turn to 238.

377

The land is rough and hilly, and the weather very
warm. You have Jost track of the days since you left
Vymorna, but pray that your family and friends are
holding on. Away to the north a small dust cloud is
getting larger by the minute. Someone — or some-
thing —is riding towards you at high speed. Will you
keep to your path (turn to 358) or find somewhere to
hide before the riders arrive (turn to 139)?

378-379

378
You trudge on, but find little dry ground. It is
getting dark. The sun set in a blaze of fire a good
fifteen minutes ago, and the swampy jungle is now
cool and eerily quiet. You push aside great clumps
of reeds, following the twisting path of dry ground,
which seems to be leading you deeper and deeper
into a maze. And then, although you were half
expecting it. . . Turn to 372.

379
You duck down hurriedly as a heavily armoured

Lizard Man strides by. He stops suddenly, and
sniffs the air for an almost unbearably long moment.
Has he seen you - or smelt you? Then he moves on,
and you breathe again. Turn to 32.

380

380

Scurrying down conduits cut through the walls and
then along trenches between the walls, you come to
the built-up dockiand area of the ruined outer city.
This part of Vymorna has suffered less destruction
than much of the besieged city, and seems not to be
as heavily occupied by enemy troops. You creep up
what used to be a gaily decorated alleyway between
two roofless buildings, remembering with sadness
the families who once lived here. The alley widens
into a winding cobbled lane, which leads, via slopes
and steps, down in the direction of the quayside. At
that moment a shout comes from behind you. Two
ragged Orcs, obviously scavenging among the
ruins, race towards you. You have two simple
options: will you stand and fight (turn to 365) or run
for it (turn to 234)?

|e
381

The warnors overcome you, pushing you to the
ground so that they can bind you with tough vines.
You are marched through the jungle until you come
to a very large tree, whereupon a vine is attached to
your waist and you are dragged up into the
branches. Despite your initial shock at being so high
above the ground, and the obvious danger of your
predicament, you are intrigued by the platforms
and rope-bridges that the warriors have built up in
the tree-tops. A tall, white-haired elder, from his
dress obviously the high priest or shaman,
approaches you and stares deep into your eyes. If
you have stared into another creature’s eyes
recently you will know of a paragraph to turn to. He
takes your rucksack and shakes it out on to the floor
and paws through the contents. Do you have a
panther idol (turn to 308) or not (turn to 75)?

382-383

382
You slip in something red and unthinkable, and fall
to your knees. A tall, heavily armoured Lizard Man,
covered in gore, leaps at you, swinging a cruelly
spiked war-flail at your head. You duck but the
strands catch your arm. Deduct 1 STAMINA point,
before you can return the blows.

LIZARD MAN SKILL 8

If he scores two consecutive hits against you, turn to
162. If you score two consecutive hits against him,
or kill him, roll one die. If you roll 1-2, turn to 208;
3-4, turn to 65; 5-6, turn to 10.

STAMINA 6

383

You hail the travellers, greeting them cordially.
There is no reply; they sit motionless on their
peculiar mounts, who regard you with their cold
reptilian eyes. A chill breeze springs up and you
give an involuntary shudder. ‘What's the matter,
friends? Have you lost your tongues?’ you smile.
Turn to 309.
384-385

384
The messenger screams in panic, and then draws
her sword and joins battle.

MESSENGER

If you defeat her, turn to 103.

SKILL 9 STAMINA 8

385
The corridor slopes down, but, more peculiarly,
twists in such a way that it angles sideways as well.
It is very cool and dry down here, but also very
musty, as though something once fresh has started
to go off. You come to another room and peer in
through the archway. This chamber is quite bizarre,
for carved into all the available wall space are small
niches. And standing in each niche is a skull and an
ornate glass jar. Beneath each skull a metal plate is
affixed to the wall. The skulls of ten thousand
beings must be in here, you think, as you gaze in
wonder. You peer closer at a niche, only to find that
the skulis are not human at all. They are fluted,
more as you imagine an EIf's skull to look, except
that they also bear very exaggerated canine teeth!
The jars next to each skull contain a nasty surprise
for you, too, for each holds a small, wrinkled grey

386

lump of flesh that might just be a brain! You can’t
make out what’s written on the small metal plates —
though there is definitely something there — for the
symbols have become faded and illegible over the
ages. This room is unsettling, especially for some-
where supposed to be a haven of Goodness. Two
passages lead out of it: one flight of steps leads up to
the left (turn to 182) and another flight down to the
right (turn to 4).

386

Somehow you manage to stop yourself from falling.
Most of the floor has gone, leaving a deep drop into
the cellar beneath. You hide to one side of the
doorway as an armoured Lizard Man strides past.
Peering out after him, you are just in time to see him
disappear among the ruins. There is no sign of the
Marsh Orcs, thank Telak. Turn to 32.

387-388

387
The Pterodactyl leaps skyward in a tremendous
rush of wings, with you hanging on to its back. It
soars high over the camp, and starts to head off
towards the battlefield! The stupid reptile thinks itis
going to fight! You grab its neck and try to steer it
away from the battle, but all it does is go into a very
steep dive, and you slip from its neck. As you fall
through the air you have a moment to reflect on

what a stupid move you have just made! Turn to
131.

388

The pale liquid is a healing balm, which you may
take when you need it most. When you wish to use
its soothing powers make a note of the paragraph
you are currently at, then turn to 42. If you have
another item to choose, turn to 31 (for the swirling
globe) or turn to 13 (for the bow and arrows), If you
now have your two items, turn to 361.

389-391

389
‘So you have met Lecarte, have you?’ White-eye
asks. ‘Well, no, J traded this because it brought me
bad luck, and I will not take it back.’ Turn to 11 and
choose again.

390
The enchanted arrow flies true and the Krell is

pinned to the branch, dead. Seeing their friend’s
fate, the rest of the creatures leap screaming and
chattering into the trees. You manage to retrieve
your sword and belt, and buckle it back round your
waist before moving on. Turn to 221.

391
‘T have news of this Laskar whom you seek,’ says
White-eye. ‘I do not give freely, but I will gladly
trade with you.’ You cannot bring yourself te trade
any of your father’s things, but you may have
something else to exchange. What can you trade?

Black lotus Turn to 249
Cloth o’gold Turn to 49
A mace Turn to 129
An Orc charm Turn to 256
A phial of purple liquid Turn to 344
Small panther idol Turn to 389

If you have nothing, or do not wish to trade, turn to
111,

392-393

392
You bite into the body and almost choke. Dead Orc

tastes absolutely terrible! You feel your stomach
heave, but somehow you manage to keep from
vomiting. Deduct 2 sTaMINa points! ‘And now,
yoo young ‘uns, ‘tis time to meet yore elder rela-
tives.’ The younger Orcs line up to greet the more
aged guests, and you seem expected to join them.
Will you go along with them (turn to 287), or try to
make a break for it (turn to 66)?

_

393
You haul yourself up a tree into the topmost

branches, and from there you peer cautiously out
over the jungle, Itis a fabulous sight, likea green sea
with the wind blowing it in waves. The forest rises
up into the hills, less than a day’s journey away. A
pair of huge birds are flapping their way over the
hills — eagles, perhaps. The south is covered in an
evil yellow mist and your view is obscured, while
the west is lost in a heat haze. To the north the
jungle continues as far as the eye can see. Will you
clamber down and continue your journey now (turn
to 170), or stay up here in the swaying branches a
little longer (turn to 150)?

394-396

You pull off the leaves near one end of the bundle,
and give an involuntary shriek as a grinning skull
leers out at you. It is a body, probably wrapped up
in the leaves to preserve it, and crawling with
maggots and spiders. Ugh, you shudder! Deduct 1
LUCK point, before climbing down and scrambling
along the bridge. Turn to 199.

395
The corridor curves gently upwards and leads to a

small chamber, from which stone stairs spiral up-
wards; a narrow passage leads off to the right. That
must be the way to the chapel of Telak. Will you go
along the passage (turn to 165) or take the stairs
(turn to 301)?

396

The messenger looks very relieved to have found
another human on the road, and you notice she is
very tired and dusty. She tells you her story ~ how
she has been sent by the people of Coppertown far
to the north to ask for aid against roving war-bands
of Lizard Men and Mountain Trolls. Her face falls
when you tell her of Vymorna’s fate, and she
appears devastated. You stand in silence for some
minutes, before you dare make a move. Will you
take her along with you (turn to 113), or bid her
farewell and set off again alone (turn to 103)?

397-399

397
You know immediately that you have made a mis-

take as a huge fleshy jaw clamps tight around you. It
belongs to a giant Venus Fly-Trap, and it has just
caught you. Deduct 2 STAMINA points. You are
now trapped inside the carnivorous plant, and all
you can do is hack away at it with your knife. The
plant will digest you in six rounds unless you can
cut your way out. Roll one die for each of the six
rounds and add the results of the die rolls together.
If you score 20 or more points in six rounds the
creature will die. If you score less than 20 points, it
will digest you and your adventure will end here! If
you cut yourself free from the plant, turn to 194.

398
The hairs on your neck bristle and a chill shudder
racks your body. Shapes loom and dance in the mist
— big, bulky shapes. Will you turn and run back the
way you came (turn to 195) or stand your ground
(turn to 39)?

399
A black-feathered arrow thuds into your shoulder

and you cry out in pain. Deduct 2 STAMINA points.
If your STAMINA score is 6 or less, you lose your
grip on the reins and fall from your riding lizard
(turn to 114). Otherwise you nde on (turn to 290).
400

400

The blade cuts deep into the old man, slicing cleanly
as the power guides your arm. The traitor dies,
gurgling and choking. You step astride his body,
the look in your eyes daring anyone to challenge
you. The evil Lizard Men hesitate, unsure of just
how much power you now have. You raise your
sword aloft and in confirmation of your powers the
air begins to shimmer. Coalescing from nothing, a
thousand warriors materialize around you, golden
weapons at the ready. The Lizard Men murmur in
terror as the ancient soldiers begin to slice through
their ranks. You turn away in disgust, but the
sickening slaughter is soon over. With you at their
head, the warriors step back into rank. You march
away into the west, towards Vymorna, the power of
your master, Telak Swordbearer, blazing through
every atom of your body. With a force like this,
charging into battle with the sun behind you, you
will free Vymorna from the clutches of Evil and
Chaos!

SLM LSP ORG ANE Ovi Le eeistine

TITA

THE FIGHTING
FANTASY WOR

EDITED BY
MAAC GASCOIGNE

