SSeS hg None ei ee ~~ —

“FIGHT ING G FANTASY BOOKS

_ Over 8 million pues sold worldwide!

Among your 1r opponents in he adventure
is time itself!

Kallamehr lies defenceless. The army is away,
facing an invasion to the north, and now anew
threat is at hand — another enemy from the
east! Lady Carolina of Kallamehr summons
YOU, a famous adventurer, to her aid. But can
you help? Will you manage to preserve this
stronghold of Good against the invading
hordes? Oris this task beyond even your heroic
abilities? You will need your wits as well as
your sword of Fangthane steel to prevent the
sands of time engulfing the city...

NOSMOVI FAALS

‘LIVINGSTONE

_PRESENT

HNOLSONIATI NVI INV

Part story, part game, this is a book in which
YOU become the hero! Two dice, a pencil and
an eraser are all you need. YOU decide which
routes to take, which dangers to risk and which

foes to fight.

SSAQGY 94} jOS8ALIS

Cover illustration by Terry Oakes

ISBN 0-14-032548-4

tT
|

80140°325485

a

| Y. F ; ; .

YS
be

PUFFIN BOOKS

SLAVES OF THE ABYSS

You are an adventurer famed throughout Allansia. You find
yourself in the city of Kallamehr at a time of crisis. The city is
threatened by invasion from the east — and the army is
absent! Lady Carolina of Kallamehr summons you to her
presence: itis up to YOU to save the city. You do not hesitate
to offer your services, but what can you do? What plan is
best? Time is not on your side — and there are dangers more
concrete than time to overcome as well!

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you need to embark
on this thrilling adventure, which is complete with its elabo-
rate combat system and a score-sheet to record your gains
and losses.

Many dangers lie ahead and your success is by no means
certain. YOU decide which routes to follow, which dangers
to risk and which adversaries to fight!
Tighting Fantasy Camebooks

THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP MOUNTAIN
INELCITADEL OF CHADS
THEFUORESE OF DOOM
STARSHIP TRAVELLER
.Cire Oo TOLIEVES
DFATHRTRAP DUNGEON
_ ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING
. SLURPION SWAMP
CAVERNS OF JUESNOW WITCH
. HOUSE OFHFLI.
. TALISMAN OF DEATH
SPACE ASSASSIN
TREIWAY FIGHTER
. TEMULE OF TCREOR
THERINGS OF KETOULR
iw. SEAS OF BLOOD
17. APPOLNIMENT WITH F.F. AR.
16. RERFI. PLANET
rq. OLMONS OF THE DEEP
as. EVVORD OF THI SAMURAI
mn. TRIAL OF CHAMILONS
2. ROBOT COMMANDO
x} MASKS OF MAYHEM
4 CREATLREGQF HAVOC
27. DENDATE NIGHTMARECASILE
of. CRYPT OF TLIESORCERER
27. STAR STRINER
oh. PUANTOMS OF FEAR
2y. MIDNIGHT ROGCE
qw. CHASMS OF MALILE
aut. GALILEBLADE WARRIOR

Ot mune le bh

- - we = bs
> NM

+
,

Steve IacksunHSORCERY!
i. ‘The Sharvatacti Tl:

>. Kharé—Cilpoart af Toop:
3. The Seven Serpents

a. The Gorn of King

FIGHTING FANTASY —The Role plamc Gane
THE RIDDLING RCAVER

OUT OF THE ?1T— Sighting Tarcssy Mersters
TUT AN - The Fighting Fantasy Wedd

Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone
present:

by Paul Mason and Steve Williams
Iilestrated by Bob Harvey

PUFFIN BOOKS
ow ON AM fw DN BH

=

Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks

. THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP MOUNTAIN
. THE CITADEL OF CHAOS

. THE FOREST OF DOOM

. STARSHIP TRAVELLER

. CITY OF THIEVES

. DEATHTRAP DUNGEON

. ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING

. SCORPION SWAMP

. CAVERNS OF THE SNOW WITCH

. HOUSE OF HELL

11. TALISMAN OF DEATH

NNN HR SB SB SB RP HR SS RS
Nr OW!’ CN DU FY N BE

. SPACE ASSASSIN

. FREEWAY FIGHTER

. TEMPLE OF TERROR

. THE RINGS OF KETHER

. SEAS OF BLOOD

. APPOINTMENT WITH F.E.A.R.
. REBEL PLANET

. DEMONS OF THE DEEP

. SWORD OF THE SAMURAI

. TRIAL OF CHAMPIONS

. ROBOT COMMANDO

23,
24.
25.
26.
27,
28.
29.
30.
31.

MASKS OF MAYHEM
CREATURE OF HAVOC
BENEATH NIGHTMARE CASTLE
CRYPT OF THE SORCERER
STAR STRIDER

PHANTOMS OF FEAR
MIDNIGHT ROGUE

CHASMS OF MALICE
BATTLEBLADE WARRIOR

Steve Jackson’s SORCERY!
1. The Shamutanti Hills

2. Kharé —Cityport of Traps
3. The Seven Serpents

4. The Crown of Kings

FIGHTING FANTASY - The Role-playing Game
THE RIDDLING REAVER

OUT OF THE PIT - Fighting Fantasy Monsters
TITAN - The Fighting Fantasy World

Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone
present:

by Paul Mason and Steve Williams
Illustrated by Bob Harvey

PUFFIN BOOKS
For Gail and P.S.

PUFFIN BOOKS

Published by the Penguin Group
27 Wrights Lane, London w8 572, England
Viking Penguin Inc., 40 West 23rd Street, New York, New York 10010, USA
Penguin Books Australia Ltd, Ringwood, Victoria, Australia
Penguin Books Canada Ltd, 2801 John Street, Markham, Ontario, Canada L3R 1B4
Penguin Books (NZ) Ltd, 182-190 Wairau Road, Auckland 10, New Zealand

Penguin Books Ltd, Registered Offices: Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England
First published 1988

Concept copyright © Steve Jackson and lan Livingstone, 1988
Text copyright © Paul Mason and Steve Williams, 1988
Illustrations copyright © Bob Harvey, 1988
All rights reserved

Filmset in 11/13pt Palatino by
Rowland Phototypesetting Ltd,
Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk
Printed in Great Britain by
Cox and Wyman Ltd, Reading, Berks

Except in the United States of America,
this book is sold subject to the condition
that it shall not, by way of trade or otherwise,
be lent, re-sold, hired out, or otherwise circulated
without the publisher's prior consent in any form of
binding or cover other than that in which it is
published and without a similar condition
including this condition being imposed
on the subsequent purchaser

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION
7

ADVENTURE SHEET
16

BACKGROUND
18

SLAVES OF THE ABYSS
23
INTRODUCTION

Your Character

In this book you are a famous adventurer in the
lands of Allansia, the veteran of many battles and
the doer of many fine deeds. You have in your
possession a finely wrought sword of [ angthane
steel and your sturdy backpack. Before embarking
on this, your latest adventure, you must first deter-
mine your strengths and weaknesses.

You use dice to determine your inilial sKILL and
STAMINA scores. On pages 16-17 thereis an Adven-
ture Sheet on which you may record the details of
your adventure. There yau will find boxes for re-
cording your SKILL and STAMINA scores.

You are unlikely to complete this adventure suc-
cessfully at the first attempt, so you are advised
either to record your scores on the Adventure Sheet in
pencil or to make photocopies of the page for use in
future attempts.

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter the
total im the sKrxt box on the Adventiire Shice!.

Rolltwodice. Add12tethe number rolled and enter
the total in the STAMINA Dox,
There is also a Luck box. Roll one die, add 6 to this
number and enter the total in the LucK box-

For reasons that will be explained below, 5x1,
STAMINA and LUCK scores change constantly dur-
ing an adventure. You must keep an accurate record
of these scores, and for this reason you are advised
either to write small in the boxes or to keep an eraser
handy. But never rub out your Jmtul scores.
Although you may be awarded additional sxrtt,
STAMINA and LUCK points, these totals may never
exceed your Initia! scores, except on Very rare occa-
sians when you sill be instructed in a particular
paragraph.

Your SKILL score reflects your swordsmanship and
general fighting expertise; the higher the better.
Your STAMINA score reflects your general constifu-
tion, your will to survive, your determination and
overall fitness; the higher your sta MINA score, the
longer you will be able to survive- lf your s14 MINA
score drops 1o zero, stop reading, close the bookand
then start ayain from the beginning. Your Luck
score indicates how naturally lucky a person you
are. Luck —and magic -— are facts of life in the fantasy
kingdom you are about to explore.

Combat

You will often come across paragraphs in the book
svhere you are instructed to fight a creature ol some
sort. An option to flee may be given, but ifnot—or il

§

you choose to attack the creature anyway — you
must resolve the battle as described below.

First record your opponent's SkiLi.and STAMINA
Scores in the first empty Monster Encounter Box on
your Adventure Sheet. The scores for every potential
adversary are given each time you have an encoun-
ter. The sequence for combat is then:

1. Roll two dice for the opponent, Add its sKILL
score. This total is the opponent’s Attack
Strength.

2. Roll two dice foryourself. Add the number rolled
to your current $kILt. score. This total is your
Attack Strength.

3. If your Attack Strength is higher than that of the
opponent, you have wounded it: proceed to step
4. If your opponent's Attack Strength is higher
than yours, it has wounded you: proceed to step
5. lf both Attack Strength totals are the same, you
have avoided each other's blows — start the next
Attack Round from step 1, above,

4. You have wounded the creature, so subtract 2
points from its Stamina score. (You may use
your tuck here to do additional damage — see
below.)

- The creature has wounded you, so subtract 2
points from your own STAMINA score. (Again
you may use Luck at this stage —see below.}

6. Make the appropriate adjustments either to the
opponent's or to your OWN STAMINA Score (and
to your LUCK score if you used LuCcK — see
below}.

“I
7, Begin the next Attack Round by returning to
your current SKILL score and repeating steps
1-6. This sequence continues until the STAMINA
score of either you or your adversary has been
reduced to zero (death).

Escaping

In some paragraphs you sill be given the option of
running away from a battle should things be going
badly for you. However, if you do run away, your
opponent automatically gets in one wound on you
(deduct 2 STAMINA points) as you flee—such is the
price of cowardice. (Note that you may use LUCK to
minimize this wound in the normal way - see
below.) You may Escape only if that option ts spect
fically given to you in the paragraph.

Fighting More Than One Opponent

If you come across more than one possible adver-
sary in an encounter, the instructions in that
paragraph will tell you how to handle the battle-
Sometimes you will treat them as a single opponent;
sometimes you will have to fight each in tum.

Tm

Instant Death

You are a mighty warrior, with a blade of finest
Fangthane steel. Whenever you roll a double 6 in
battle you have scored a killing blow on your oppo-
nent. The battle ends straight away, and you are the
¥ictor?

You may inflict ilimg blows on your opponents only
if you are using your sword. If you ever lose the
sword, you will forfeit this special ability,

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either in
battle or when you find yourself in a situation in
which vou could be either lucky or unlucky (on each
Occasion you are invited to Test your Lick in the
relevant paragraph), you have to call on your Luck
to make the outcome more favourable. But beware!
Using LtcK is a risky business, and if you are
unlucky, the results could be disastrous.

The procedure for Iesfing your Luck is as follows: roll
two dice. If the number rolled is equal to or less ta
your current LUCK score, you have been Lucky and
the result will go in your favour. If the number
rolled is hicher tart your current LUCK scare, you
have been Unlucky and you will be penalized.

Each time you Test your Luck, you must subtract 1
point from your current LUCK score. You will soon
come torealize that the more yourely on yourLUCK,
the more risky this will become.

t1
Using Luck in Butiles

In certain paragraphs you will be told to Test your
Luck and will then discover the consequences of
being Lucky or Unlucky. However, you always
have the option of using your -Ucx in battle, either
to inflict a more serious wound on an opponent you
have just wounded, or to reduce the effects of a
wound the opponent has just inflicted on you-

If you have just won an Attack Round, you may Test
your Luck as described above- If you are Lucky, you
have inflicted a severe wound on your opponent
and may subtract an extra 2 points from the crea-
ture’s STAMINA score. However, if you are Un-
lucky, the wound was a mere graze and you must
restore 1 point to its STAMINA [i.e. instead of scur-
ing the normal 2 points of damage, you have now
scared only 4),

if you have just lost an Attack Round and been
wounded, you may Tes! your Luck to iry to lessen the
wound, If you are Lucky, you have managed to
avoid the full impact of the blow. Restore 5 point of
STAMINA (so that, instead of doing 2 points of
damage, it has done only 1). If you are Unlucky, you
have had to take a more serious blow. Subtract 1
extra STAMINA point.

Remember: you must subtract 1 point from your
LUCK score every time you Test your Luck.

12

Restoring Skill, Stamina and Luck

Shali

Your sktitscore will not change much during your
adventure. Occasionally, a paragraph may give the
instruction to increase or decrease your SKILL score.
Aspecial weapon may also increase your SKILL; but
remember that only one weapon can be used ata
time! You cannot claim two SKILL bonuses for
catrying hwo magic swords,

Stamina and Provisiosis

Your STAMINA score will change a lot during your
adventure as you fight monsters and undertake
arduous tasks. As you near your goal, your STAM-
ina level may become dangerously low and battles
may be particularly risky, so be careful!

Your backpack contains enough Provisions for live
meals. You may rest and eat at any time except
when engaged in a battle. Eating a meal restores up
(0 4STAMINA points. When you eat a meal, add up
to 4 points fo your STAMINA score and deduct one
of your Provisions. A separate Provisions Remain-
mg Box is provided on the Adventure Shel for this
purpose. Remember that you havea long way to go,
so use your Provisions wisely!

Remember also that your STAMINA score may
never exceed its Initial value.

13
Luck

Additions to your LUCK score are awarded during
the adventure when you have been parhaularly
lucky; details of when this occurs are given in the
relevant parazraphs. Remember: as with STAMINA,
your LUCK score may never exceed its Initial value.

Equipment

You will start your adventure with a bare minimum
of equipment, but you will probably acquire other
items during your Wavels. You are armed witha fine
steel sword which has carried you through count-
less fights, and you are dressed in your battered
leather armour, You have 5 Gold Pieces left from
your last adventure, and a backpack to hold your
Provisions and any treasures you may come across.

Keeping Track of Time

The adventure which hes ahead of you is 2 race
apainst lime, A grave threal hangs over Kallamehr,
and only by quick and resourceful action will you be
able to defeatit.

As you make your choices, from time to time you
will find instructions to ‘tick off a time box’. When-
ever you come upon one of these, you should make
a pencil mark in the first available emply box on the
Time Sheet provided on the inside front cover. Start
with the box at the top left, and move from left to
right and trom the tap row to the bottom row. The

14

boxes tepresent time running out for Kallamehr;
they do not correspond to an exact length of time.
Two of the time boxes have numbers in them.
Wherever you are when you reach these (i-e. when
you tick them off), you should make a note of your
current paragraph number, then tum at once to the
paragraph number given in the box.

You will find it easy to be diverted from the tue
path throughout this adventure. On your lirst
attempt you will probably run out of ime — or even
meet with an untimely end. To succeed, you will
have to think hard about each choice you make. You
will succeed in the adventure only if you do the righ!
things at the rigit! times. No matter haw weak your
Initial die-rolls, it should be fairly easy to conyplete
the adventure —if you can find the true path!

ADVENTURE SHEET

16

SKILL [STAMINA LUCK
Inibal Initial Initial ;
| Skil = | Stamina = Luck = |
|
|
= it
ITEMS OF | GOLD
EQUIPMENT | |
| CARRIED |
| : JEWELS
| ie ]
: | PORGNS lat
| [PROVISIONS
| | [REMAINING
| |
|
fee et

MONSTER ENCOUNTER BOXES

-—— —

Skit = | |Sext— Siti —
Sawin? = | Staminnc = Seung —
'
'
t
| |
|
ee ee ~
Sarin = Shantina — Stands =

|

|

|
———

— ——

Shik - Kear | sas
|
Storia = Shamina — Stantina —

=~

Skit! =
Stoniina —

‘|

Eas

BACKGROUND

These are troubled times in Kallamehr. No sooner
had its ruler, Lady Carolina, got over the death ofher
husband than she was flung into a war with the nval
trading state Alkemis. After a sea-battle in which
many lives were lost, it seemed that Kallamehr had
prevailed, Yet there was more to come. Rumours
spread of armies massing on the northern borders.
Bei-Han, never a friendly neighbour, was said to be
preparing for an invasion. Acting decisively, Lady
Carolina ordered all her armies to the northern
borders. The mountain passes on the borders could
be defended with easc. Hf the armies of Bei-Han
were allowed to reach the wide plains of Kallamehr,
however, they would wreak untold damage.

18

You arrive in Kallamehr just as the last troop otf
soldiers are departing. You find yourself in a city
strangely deserted. Life goes on, but without the
many brightly costumed warriors who used to
parade so proudly down Kallamehr’s winding
streets. With the soldiers gone, the criminals thrive.
You bar the door of your room at night, and sleep
with your sword beside your bed.

‘A few weeks pass. Then, one morning, a wild-eyed
messenger rides into the city, yelling incoherent
wamings of an invasion from the east. Less than an
hour after he disappears into the palace, a servant
drings you 2 note on stationery bearing the seal of
the House of Rangor. It is a summons to appear
before Lady Carolina herself! [t seems your fame as
an adventurer has reached her, and in these dark
days the Lady has need of fearless warriors.

Ag
When you arrive at the palace, you find yourself in
the company of ten other adventurers. Several are
known to you by sight, and one, Sophia of Black-
sand, by name, as you have shared dangers with
her on more than one occasion. Before you have a
chance to exchange names and greetings with the
others, you are led inside by a servant. You are
ushered into an audience-chamber to face five
nobles behind a huge black wooden table. In the
centre sits Lady Carolina, resplendentin ceremonial
jewellery, the Sword of Office on the table before
her. To her leftis her cousin Madhaerios, a fat fellow
with a nervous twitch in his nose. Beyond him sits
Dunyazad of Ikhtiyan, a small woman who is repu-
ted to be the wealthiest person in Kallamehr pro-
vince, To Carolina’s right are Sige the Silent, an
imposing woman of ancient lineage, and Asiah
Albudur, the stern-faced Judge. Truly you face the
five most important people in Kallamehr!

20

You bow, and Carolina swiftly explains the situe-
tion. With the army many leagues to the north,
Kaliamehr lies unguarded. Now a messenger has
amived from the easterrmost regions, telling of
villages found deserted. It seems that an army is
advandng on the city from the east — it must be
barbarian raiders from Kulak Isle. A rider must be
dispatched at once to fetch back half of Kallamehr’s
army. Meanwhile the city must be defended in
some way. Carolina explains that her loyal cham-
pion Ramedes the Invinable, most feared wartiorin
all the southern lands, is away ona quest fora fabled
relic. She praises you all for your past gallantry and
asks that you help her—and gain the gratitude of the
whole province — by undertaking the defence of the
ctr. You may be few in number, but surely the glory
will be all the greater?

NOW TURN TO PARAGRAPH 1

21
1
How can you refuse such an appeal? The other ten
are quick to volunteer for the task, and your vaice
joms theirs in pledging allegiance tv Lady Carolina.
This is your chance to become more than a wander-
ing adventurer — you'll be a true hero of legend! You
listen as the five nobles begin to lay plans. One of
you must ride to the northern passes and summon
the army, another must ride east to scout out the
invaders. The rest must remain in Kallamehr and
use all their wits and ingenuity to prepare a defence.
What do you intend to do:

Volunteer to nde north

for the army? Turn to 92
Volunteer to scout to

the cast? Turn to 104
Remain behind to defend

the city? Turn to 288

Holding Mema’s sticky hand, you make your way
back to your horse, You will have to deliver her
safely back to her parents, and she tells you that she
knows the way to their village. Itis back the way you
have already come, but to leave her unprotected
would not be the action of a hero. Meanwhile she is
still covered in the green slime. If you decide to
wash it off her, turn to 170. Otherwise, turn to 396.

3

Beneath your feet the crystal surface begins to
roughen and slope upwards. More Ectovults pass
screeching by, and you scramble up on to the rim of
2 crater. Looking down, you see a bowl-shaped
depression, made of smooth veined rock, with
regular grooves. A warm glow radiates from golden
sand strewn in its middle_ If you wish te go down
mto the bowl, turn to 103. Lf you wish to wail and
see ifanything happens, turn to 330.

AS

wo

475

4

Fourga is the god of pride, and his priests here in
Hasrah certainly have their fair share! The old man
who admits you to the Temple looks you up and
down coldly, saving not a word. You are led in to
see the High Priest, a wrinkled, venerable old fellow
who eyes you with distaste. ‘So, the lone dog dares
to darken our portals once more with its presence!’
he snarls in a voice surprisingly firm for one of his
age. ‘Perhaps you would care to empty your back-
pack for us?’ If you agree to empty your backpack,
turn to 15. If you refuse, turn to 399.

You ride northward into the mountains, making
your way carefully through wiry, bleached grass.

There are no paths in these parts, and the grass
conceals pot-holes and ruts. Without guide or mar-
ker you have no way of knowing whether you are
travelling im the nght direction, so you trust to your
instincts and keep the sun to your left all the time.

Finally you top a peak and gaze down at a cheerless
plateau. The grass thins out and your heart sinks at
the sight of the barren plain which stretches almost
to the horizon. Then you spot something, far out in
the middle of the plain. Screwing up your eyes, you
stare intently at a small dot— perhaps a hut or other
dwelling. You spur your steed down the slope and,

after a few hours’ ride, are at the fringes of the plain.

You realize with alarm that the wind is rising.
Without vegetation, the soil on this plain is dry and
sandy, and it whips up around you, obscuring your
6-7

vision and stinging your face. Your horse rears,
terrified, and you tumble from the saddle, your
right foot tanglingin its stirrup. Test wour Luck. ifyou
are Unlucky, turn to 54. Ifyou are Lucky, tum to 77-

6
As you charge him, the Troll pulls the sapling from
the hole and uses it as a club.

TROLL SKILL STAMIKAQ
If you defeat him, turn to 207.
7

You are beginning to feel that you are going to
spend the rest of your life in the saddle. The weather
is strangely humid for the time of year, and the
occasional gusts of wind from the east bring little
camfort; they are tainted by a fetid, sickly sweet
stench. The road passes through a jumble of mas-
sive boulders and a jagged scarp rises on your left.
Ahead of you, another settlement huddles beneath
a huge overhang of rock. Strangely, no smoke rises
fromit. As you approach, you natice several objects
littering the road; shoes, bowls and tools. You dis-
mount and enter the village cautiously, finding a
desolate street, empty of people and littered with
debris. From one of the buildings to your night you
can heara faint knocking sound. Will you:

Follow the knocking? Tum to 349
Search the buildings te your
left? Tum to 128

8-10

Hurry out of the village and
press on? Turn to 22
8
You open up Sige’s pomander and take the herbs
out. You stuff them in your mouth and wince at
the acrid taste, but are rewarded by a spreading
warmth. Make a note that you have eaten the herbs.
If you now examine the items strewn about, turn to
87. Hf you make your way through the mist, turn

t)1316-

9

You fall immediately into a deep sleep and dream of
a black-clad figure hovering above your bed. Its face
moves down towards you, and it draws back its
hood to reveal the chubby, beaming features of the
innkeeper. Then it reaches up with clawed hands
and peels away its fleshy facade, Beneath the mask,
Sophia of Blacksand leers down at you. Then her
features too are peeled away, revealing the stern
glare of your father! The hands claw again and
agai, revealing Madhaerios, Carolina, Dunyazad
and countless other faces drawn from your mem-
ory. Finally they pause. Then the last maskis nipped
away. Your own features stare back at you. Tick offa
time box and turn to 28.

Io
As you lie panting, Ramedes prints and flexes his
broad shoulders. ‘| just can’t understand it,’ he
says, shaking his head. ‘Three months ago T was
Bare es

11

sent by my Lady on a journey —a mission to retrieve
a mighty relic. I braved perils beyond description to
find the artefact ... and my reward? Drugged,
beaten and abandoned to thal creature by some
cowardly pretender. By the Grace ol Castis, I had
already hidden my prize safely. Now I must deliver
it 19 the Lady Carolina.‘ With a shock you realize
that Ramedes has not learnt of the death of the
Lady. You gently explain the truth to him. He
clenches his fists and stifles a cry. T will have my
revenge!” he hisses, ‘and | will take it now!’ He
jumps to his feet and makes his way out of the
chamber, srabbing a torch from the wall to light his
way along the dark passage. You follow him out of
the building and into the courtyard, where he
strides over fo the water-trough by the stables. He
reaches into the scummy water and retricves a
leather pouch. ‘1I believe I an trust you,’ he says,
tossing the pouch oyer to you, ‘T go now to rect out
the traitor who has slain my Lady. Keep this well
and, if | should die, give it to Kallamehr's new
ruler,’ He whirls the flaming brand about his head
and charges towards the gate of the keep. If you
follow Ramedes, turn to 224. If you hide in the
stables and wait Lo see what happens, turn to 359-

11

You tear a strip of cloth from your breeches and tip
the leaves on to it. Chopping a small branch froma
nearby tree, you wrap the leaffilled cloth round
one end and bind it tight. Ifyou then decide to light

12-13

the Jheera torch, turn to 34. TF vou ride down to meet
the army with it unlit, turn to 368.

12

You forge ahead further into the heart of the forest.
The trees seem to close in on you, crowding out the
sunlight. The forest floor is naw carpeted with
rotting leaves, and you find yourself making moder-
ate progress on this springy turf. The atmosphere is
close and humid, and you begin to wheeze with the
effort. Walking in this weather is exhausting. Lose t
point of stamina as the hours of trudging pass.
Finally, you come upon a fork. If you take the
night-hand path, turn to 366. If you take the left-
hand path, turn lo 273,

bee cose =~

13

The ox lying before you is horribly mutilated; a grey
slime seems to have eaten into its flesh. Involun-
tarily you gag, and turn your eyes away from the
foul sight. As you do so, you notice something lying
in the grass near by — something pink, resembling
an uneven shallow bowl. Curious, you pick it up
and discover thatitis a mask. When you turnit over
you stare at it in disbelief. Your own face, modelled
in soft wax, stares back at you! You crumble the
Siggieert tree

14-17

imposter’s mask in your hand and fling it angnly
away. Turn to 139.

44 -
You feel a sharp pain in your stomach. The thick,

viscous broth was heavy when itslipped down your
throat, but now it is solidifying. You retch, and
begin to shake violently. Then you fall to the
ground. Your adventure ends here.

oe)
You tip all your possessions out on to the floor
before the High Priest, wondering what the old fool
is Lrying to prove. Priests of Fourga aren't usually
quite so arrogant. Hf you have the Golden Fist, turn
to 73. If you don’t have the Fist, turn to 379-

16

Mema shrieks as the black cloud rises and swims
through the air towards you like a black velvet
ghroud. Panic overwhelms you and you wrench
violently at your reins. Memais nearly swept off the
horse’s back as you whirl around and race off. Just
as you think you are safely away, a steady metallic
buzzing reaches your ears. You riska glance behind
you, and see that the black clond is gaining on you.
Seconds later it is above you, and then darkness
descends. Turn to 336-

a7
The path begins to slope down, and you hear the
sound of running water from up ahead. Soon you

18-19

reach the banks of a fast-flowing stream. After a
while, you heara crashing sound from the far bank.
A large and ugly Troll is battering his way through
the undergrowth which lines the river bank, towing
behind him a green, leafy sapling. If you swim
across the river to attack the Troll, turn to 233. HW you
have a crossbow, and wish to try to shoot the Troll,
turn to 147. If you remain quietly where you are,
turn to 180.

18

You claw and scrape your way up the wall of the pit
with the Quagrant sucking and gurgling behind
you. Soon vou, like Ramedes, are dangling from the
grille. He is tired and probably drugged, however,
so you must open the trapdoor yourself. You swing
your way over to the trapdoor, butjustas you reach
tt there is a cackle from above. A heavy booted foot
stamps on your fingertips. You shriek in pain and
drop ... straight into the gullet of the creature
below. Your adventure ends here.

49
Kallamehris less than a day’s ride away, so you put
aside your aches for the good of its people and send
for your horse. The ostler charges you 1 Gold Piece
for stabling (deduct this from your Adventure Sheet),
but your mare looks well-fed and eager to be off.
Before you leave, Barolo hands vou a bundle wrap-
ped in an oily rag. ‘A little something to match up
with your sword,’ he says. Unwrapping it, you find
itis a small shield—a buckler, Itis perfectly balanced
20-22

for use with your sword, and adds 1 point to your
SKILL in combat. If you wish to give Barolo some
thing in return, turn to 134. Otherwise you wave
raodbye to your old teacher and set off. Tick off a
time box and turn to 290.

20
You can hold your breath no longer. The oily black
water floods into your lungs, and the tentacles claim
their victim.

21

Pressing straight on, you find the undergrowth
creeping on to the path ahead of you. Soon it
becomes difficult to push your way through it. You
laboriously hack your way through (lose 1 point of
STAMINA), finally reaching a clearing from which
two other paths Jead. Lyou take the path on the left,
turn to 366. If you take the path on the nght, turn
to 221.

22
Leaving the village and its mighty rock outcrop
behind, you follow the road. A few miles further on,
you come upon another village, as deserted as the

- last. Search though you may, you can find no

explanation for the sudden disappearance of its
inhabitants. There are signs of fighting — broken
furniture, fpotprints milling about in the dust of the
main street — but no signs of bloodshed, and no
corpses. Your mission was to discover the nature
and the weaknesses of the enemy, yet so far it has

23525

just meant more and more mystery, Tick off a time
box. If you carry on riding eastwards, turn to 91. If
you turn round and go back the way voucame, turn
to 223.

23

Pocketing the scrap, you listen attentively as
Dunyezad suggests that you stick to the roads.
Though they will carry you a roundabout way, they
will be far quicker than chancing a ride across
country. When you have left the table and are
alone, you examine the scrap of paper, It reads;
‘Beware — you are watched by a thousand eyes.’
Tur to 149.

24
lt is not casy swimming against the current, but you

finally struggle back to the bank and drag yourself
out of the water like a drowned rat. You shake some
of the water off you, then brave the tunnel, Tum

to 362.

2

You are just about to unhook the rope from the
spike it was wrapped round when you notice a
guardsman coming along the walkway. He hasn't
spotted you yet, but he will be passing very close to
you. If you flatten yourself against the roof, in the
hope thathe won’tspot you, turn to 272. Ifyou have
@ crossbow and wish to shoot the guard, turn to 39.
lf you slide down the rope to the shadows of the
courtyard below, turn to 9g. :
26

26

You have been riding for several hours when you
are forced to rei in by a battered fellow who stag-
gers on to the road ahead of you and collapses in a
heap. You dismountto see what the trouble is.
Between gasps, he tells you his misfortune: ‘I, the
legendary Tasbadh, doer of mighty deeds, slayer of
Evil, and seeker of truths, find myself staring Death
full in the face. 1 should never have incurred the
wrath of the Dark Jester by seeking te foil his evil
plottings. "Tis truc, | levelled his palace and
banished his warped minions from this plane. Yeta
fool I was to believe this would truly vanquish one
so steeped in Evil. Even as I was making my way
from the ruins, his tentacles of malice were reaching
out to envelop me. Through the greatest love of my
life, whom I trusted implicitly, he wrought his foul
revenge. A Death Spell is pulsing through my
Sinews, end even my iron constitution cannot resist
it much longer. My only hope is the [Healer of
Gebaan, but T cannot go on without food—and even
then the Healer has his price and] have no money.
That I, Keeper of the Fabled Fortune of Foraznak,
should die for want of four Gold Pieces! His head
sinks wearily upon his shoulders, and he sobs. Lick
off a time box. Will you:

Give him the money and

Provisions he craves? Turn to 177
Leave him to his fate and
ride on? Turn te 308

Question him further? iurn to 88
27-29

27
The chariot seems to be the only way out of this
wasteland, but haw do you get on toit? lf you wrap
yourself in the Gatherer’s robe, take his silken bag
and approach it, turn to 222. If you wish to over-
posver the Crystal Sprite, turn to 179-

28

You awake with a start. You are gagging violently
on a mouthful of acrid smoke. The whole room is
fall of it, lit by a red glow from beyond the door.
Holding the bedsheet over your face, you stumble
from the bed over to the shuttered windows. You
fling them open and recoil in horror. Outside the
window hovers a black-clad figure. Beneath its dark
hood, the fiery red glow from the door is reflected
back at you, split mto a hundred glinting jewels.
Your ears are assailed by a loud buzzing and you
lash outat the figure with your fist. Itis too quick for
you, and shoots vertically upwards. Will vou:

Run for the dawr? Turn to 61
Climb out of the window? Turn to 304
Look for another way out? Tum to 167

29
As you sit and wait, drowsiness overcomes you-
When you wake, the sun has crassed the sky. “Tick
off a time box. If anyone has entered or left the hut,
you have missed them, You decide to waste no
more time. Lf you walk under the hut, tum to 254. If
you climb up one of the legs, turn to 202.

30-31

30

When you suggest that the guards might let you
into the palace, you are met by blank stares, They
tell you once more to come back the next day, and
deny all Knowledge of the money you have given
them. If you give them some more Gold Pieces, nate
down the number, then turn to 327. li you threaten
them, turn to 210. If you abandon your attempt to
enter the palace, turn to 130.

31

Check the names of the herbs in the pomander, as
marked on vour Adventure Sheet. Replace each letter
with the corresponding number from the key be-
low. Then add up the numbers that go to make each
name. Taking the wordsin the order you have them
written down will give you a three-figure number.
Turn to the paragraph corresponding to this num-
ber.

P=0 A= + die: E
b=2 li=o M = 3 Q

Alternatively, you may flee by tuming to 335.

ltt ean ee a te TEER 22.
~ ~ « : a

32-34

32

The trail ploughs straight through the trees, and
you traipse along it foran hour before the monotony
is relieved by a branching of the ways. If you go
right, turn to 123. If you go left, turn to 522-

33

You struggie to clear your mind of the fearful visions
which beset it. You feel as if molten metal is running
through your veins. You get no rest this night. Lose
2 points of STAMINA and 1 point Of SKILL. Next
morning you bid Barolo an abrupt farewell, retneve
your horse from the stables (pay the ostler 1 Gold
Piece), and depart, slumped in the saddle. Tick offa
time box and hurn to 290.

34
You strike a spark from your tinder-box on to the

torch, so that the cloth begins to smoulder. Soon the
acrid fumes of the Jheera are wafting from it. With
your weapon prepared, you ride forth. Turn to 368.

35-36

>

Mema clings on for dear life as you spur your horse
towards the village. As you approach the palisade,
the large gates swing open, and you are beckoned
in by a worried villager. Mema slips down from the
horse and rushes into the arms of her parents. You
waste no time in telling the people of the danger
they are in. They grab what they can of their pos-
sessions and livestock before fleeing. Finally, you
find yourself alone outside the deserted village. lhe
huge black army is in sight now, steadily oozing
dawn the valley towards you. It is time lo make
your own escape. Turn to 53.

36
You land in a bowlshaped crater in the ground. As
you lie there, stunned, six Crystal Warriors carrying
huge crystal hammers climb over the rim of the
crater and advance towards you. If you have your
sword, turn to 201. Otherwise, furn to 268,
37-39

37
You step back in revulsion at the sight of a slimy

green form crouched within the cupboard. It hoidsa
slender tube to its mouth, which it points at your
face. Looking closer, you see frightened eyes fixed
on you. This is no creature of evil, buta young girl,
coated from head to foot in a sticky, foul-smelling
mire. You smile at her encouragingly, and she
lowers her makeshift blow-pipe as she realizes you
mean her no harm. Gently, you hold out your hand
and take the blosw-pipe from her, pocketing it to
Keep it out of harm’s way. “Who are you?’ you ask
her. Turn to 315.

38

You burst from the trees and find yourself teetenny
on the brink of a gorge. Staring with horror down
into its depths, you feel the earth crumbling beneath
your feet. As you feel yourself toppling towards
your death, you flail desperately abaut you. Your
hands make contact with a Stragely tree-root and
FOu grasp it for dear life. You are dashed painfully
against the wall of the chasm (lose 2 points of
STAMINA), but manage to keep your grip. With
some effort. you pull yourself back up to safety and
rest. There is no sign of vour quarry — he has
vanished into thin air. Turn to 139.

39

Quickly you wind the sting back and load a boll.
You wait until the guard is silhouetted against the
moon before shooting. Roll two dice, If the result is
q0—42

less fhan your SKILL, turn to 128. If the result is
greater thun or equal fo your SKILL, turn to 84-

40

You make your way stealthily round the edge of the
crater. A short distance away to one side, you can
see a crystal chariot with two Ectovults tethered to it
and a Crystal Sprite standing patiently by. You hide
behind a crystal outcrop until the cowled Gatherer
approaches. If you leap out and strike at him with
your sword, tum to 85. Lf you challenge him, turn

to 154.

41

Gripping your sword in both hands, you twirl it
about you like a scythe. Two priests fall, and the
others shrink back. You make for the door, but the
priests raise their staves and close in. You flail
desperately, but there are too many of them. Their
blows rain down upon your head. Your adventure
ends here.

42
With the cloud close behind you, you spur your

horse down the valley and into the river with a
splash, Unfortunately, the frothing water unseats
you, and the Jheera torch is doused- As you struggle
to keep yourself afloat, the hornets descend on you.
You dive beneath the water to avoid them, but your
breath cannot last for ever. When you break the
surface, #asping, they arc there, stings poised to
strike .. . Turn to 336-

43-44

43

You vault on to the platform and confront the four
nobles. You begin by demanding justice, and tell
them how they have been misled by a traitor — but
a shout cuts you off. “Ware, assassin!’ shouts
Luthaur, drawing his sword and leaping for you-
The nobles cower back in their ornate seats. You
must defend yourself against Luthaur’s furious
attack.

LUTHAUR

As soon as you take a wound in the fight, hun to
143- If you defeat Luthaur without taking a wound,
turn to 169.

skii1.8 STAMINA TF

Tired though you are, you cannot sleep. You re-
member Sige’s promise that the pomander would
prevent you sleeping, but surely this has become
more a hindrance than a help? Your body cries out
for true rest, squirming in tortured agony at lack of
sleep. [If you decide to remove the pomander in the
hope that this will help you sleep, turn to 382. If not,
hurn to 278.
Sears

45-47

$5

The broth tastes foul as it slides sluggishly down
your throat, then settles unpleasantly im your sto-
mach. You brace yourself against the goblet and
take a few deep breaths, If you have drunk the
potion labelled “Arahl’, oradded it to the broth, tum
to 1g. If you added the potion marked “Zazzaz’ to
the broth, turn to go, Otherwise, turn to 68.

46
The sword swishes past your back as you roll to the
right, grabbing your sword as you go. You leap to
your feet and parry the next blow- Your opponentis
a Black Elf, and behind him you see two more of his
kind.

First BLACK ELF SKILL 7 STAMINA 6
If you win, turn to 12090.
47

Dunyazad sits upin her seat and stares at you. Then
she makes her way stiffly over to the coffin. She
pauses fora moment. ‘I know what you are trying to
prove,’ she says icily, ‘but what would [have to gain
from murdering one who has protected my interests
swell?’ She bends forward and gently kisses Caro-
lina’s pale lips. There is silence in the courtyard. All
eyes are on Carolina. But there is no change in the
colour of her ips. Dunyazad turns to the guards and
says quietly, ‘Arrest the presumptuous dog.’ Before
you can defend yourself they are upon you. lurn
to 355.

| lie,

48-49

48

You join the Murkurons at the door and brace
yourself against it. Then the fourth Murkuron
squawks, ‘Isbech Pinzha!’ His comrades dive away
from the door, with you close behind. The door
bursts open and squat reptilian shapes pile intu the
room. There is a flash, an intense burst of heat, and
when you open your eyes the floor is littered with
charred Kokomokoa. The Murkurons spring to their
feet and dash through the door, the mayician
knving to you politely before juining the others.
They charge down the tunnel ahead of you, only to
return seconds later, shrieking. You dodge them as
they pass and, nervously, follow the hinnel until it
opens into a large chamber. Turn to 82.

49
When you tell them that you were sent out by Lady

Carolina personally, they raise their eyebrows and
look you up and down. One of them disappears
inside the palace while the other still bars your way.
59

After some while the first one reappears. “They're
too busy with the Lady Carolina’s funeral arrange-
ments to see you today — you'll have to come back
tomorrow, I suggest you have a bath, too, if you
want to be allowed in.’ if you wish to bnbe the
guards, note down how much you propose giving
them, then turn to 387. If you wish to threaten them
with your sword, tum to 210. Otherwise you must
take their advice and go back to the town. lum
ta 130.

50

Thewoman cackles, and the vision disappears. “No,
Tam not he, though I know him. He was my last
visitor, and his vision was the same as yours. My
name is Aletheia." As she speaks, you feel a soft
weight drop upon your shoulder. You fum your
head to find yourself staring into the eyes of a
serpent. You shudder and automatically grab for it.
But itis too fast for you. In an instant its thick coils
are wrapped around your neck. "Meet Caduceus,’
says the syoman, Turn to 307.

rl

b Le

51

You unsling your crossbow and load a bolt, You can-
not make out the beast clearly in the pit below. You
let fiy the boltinto the darkness, and are rewarded by
the sound of a throaty squawk; it has been injured,
butitis still ahve. The dangling man moans hoarsely
and his grip loosens. [f you take another shat at the
beast, turn to 303. If you abandon the crossbow and
try to open the trapdoor, turn to 162,

Most of the occupants of the frozen cocoon are lony
since dead, their mummified faces contorted with
agony. But as you approach the source of the
whispering, your left hand tingles. Within one of
the crystal statues you make out the features of Sige,
and you can now hear her whisper: ‘Free me! 1 can
help you defeat Bythos. He has cheated me of my
destiny and left me here to rot with his other failed
agents.” If you wish to smash the crystal and free
Sige, turn to 286. If you would preter to leave her,
turn £075.
53-54

53
The black horde is behind you. Itis still many miles
from Kallamehr, yet it is engulfing everything in its
path. Although you know of no weakness in the
enemy, surely Kallamehr should be forewamed:
evacuation may be the only means of survival. Tick
off a time box. Will you:

Ride to warn Kallamehr? Turn to 129
Try to find out more about

the enemy? Turn to 325
Search for Enthymesis the

Enchanter (if you recognize

the name)? Turn to5

54
Your horse bolis, dragging you helplessly some
distance before you are finally battered uncon-
scious, Lose 2 points of STAMINA and tick offa time
box, When you come round, the sandstorm is sub-
siding. Turn to 98.

55—56

55

As you take the fish-shaped bottle out of your pack,
your opponent shrinks back. He stretches his hand
out towards you and moans, ‘No! No! Not that! You
ignore his pleas and uncork the bottle. There is a
sound like a faint chuckle fom within, and the
once-proud commander of the army dissolves into
helpless crazed laughter. If you know the Spitting
Fly and wish to use it, turn to 255. If you wish to
draw your sword and attack him, turn to 324-

56
“You are wise to change your mind,’ says the High
Priest. Though we are old now, we still have
power. Let us see what lies in your backpack.‘ If you
have the Golden Fist, turn to 73. IF you do not have
the Fist, turn to 379.
57-58

57
Suddenly you are taken by surprise by a black

hooded shape, which leaps on your back, digging
its bony hands into your shoulders. As you twist to
hurl the shape off, something lances into your leg
and agony shoots through you. Lose 3 paints of
STAMINA. You hurl the shape from you and pre
pare to do battle. Your opponent flings back his
hood and you find yourmelf face to face with a huge
hornet, its faceted eves glittering back at you. It
jetks and twitches sickeningly as you close in.

HORNET ASSASSIN) SKILL 5 STAMINA-1O

if you do not have your sword you fight at ~2 and
may not score Killiny blows If you defeat the Hornet,
turn back to the paragraph you came from.

ira! ol
Se ‘

mike
58
Tso paths lead out of the vlade, one to yourlettand
one to your ight. You are just deciding which way
to go when you are startled by an ant-cater which
waddles out of a clump of orchids and foxgloyes tu
your left, making straight for the mound in the
middle of the glade. Wishing hima hearty meal, you
continue on your way. If you have three numbers

te,
it
59-60

written on your Adventure Sheet, barn to the para-
graph they indicate. Otherwise, if you go along the
Tight-hand path, write the number ‘x’ after any
other numbers on your Adventure Sheet and turn to
17. If you go along the left-hand path, write the
number 2" after any other numbers on your Adver-
ture Sheet and turn to 388. ff you already have one of
these numbers written down, you should choose
the other option.

53
You dislodge the cask and grasp the iron ring of the

trapdoor. No sooner haye you jerked the trapdoor
open than a pair of arms shoot out, your legs are
tugged sharply and you tumble down a short flight
of stone steps, landing with a splash. You black out.
You are brought round by a stinging blow to your
head, Deduct 1 STAMINA point. Your mouth is full
of 3varm vinegared wine, You are sitting in a lake of
the stuff a foot deep and facing you is a bedraggied
wretch who swings at you once more with surpris-
ing vigour, Choking on the wine, you dodge his
blow and stagger to your feet. You must defend
yourself!

WRETCH SKILL6

If you defeat him, turn to 222.

STAMINAS

60
You have solved the Troll’s indigestion problem
quite effectively — he lies dead at your feet. Giving
him nv further thought, you make your way back to

61-63

the trail which runs along the river bank. Turn to
133.

61

You hastily snatch up your possessions and wrap
your hand in the bedsheet. You curse when you
find the door is locked- You kick hard at the middle
panel of the door, andare rewarded as it collapses in
2 pile of charred matchwood. Thena greedy tongue
of flame licks through the opening and engulfs you.
Your clothes catch alight instantly. Your adventure
ends here.

62
Your weapon enables you to damage the warrior,
but it is a formidable opponent. You may not strike
killing blows against it.

CRYSTAL WARRIOR SKILL 1£ STAMINA 13

You may Esoupe after one round (turn to 346). Ifyou
defeat the Crystal Warrior, turn to 398.

63
You tether your horse and see to her feed. Lighting a
small fire for protection, you settle yourself down
for the night. Hours pass as you gaze up at the
constellations above you. You remember Sige ex-
plaining her pomander’s power to arrest sleep. You
are grateful for its properties when you observe
several stealthy forms approaching. You lie still,
feigning sleep, your hand inches from your sword-
hilt. If you wait until they are nearly upon you
64-65

before attacking, turn to 214. If you leap up before
they advance further, turn fo 348.

64

On the grille above you stands the spindly jailer,
cackling and dangling the keys from his fingers.
You must find a way of killing him quickly if you are
to get out of this accursed pit. If you know the
Spitting Fly and wish to use it, turn to 259. If you
have a crossbow and wish to use it, turn to 186. If
you have a blow-pipe which has not been used
before and wish to use it, turn to 197. Otherwise,
furn to 352-

65

You charge him, yelling your battle-cry. He blocks
your first slash effortlessly, and then launches one
of his own. You only half parry it, flinching under
the impact. You are completely outclassed — he
counters every blow instantly, while the steely eyes
which are locked on yours betray no sign of his own
moves. Finally you sink to your knees, unable to
resist the onslaught. ‘lwill be Master of this land as!
am Master of the Abyss,’ he says, “and none are left
to stop me.” His sword scythes down.

66-67

66

Outside in the twilight you see the villagers
gathered around someone who is falking in a
scratchy, high-pitched voice. This must be a wise
woman or perhaps a witch, for the villagers are
listening respectfully to her witterings. Then she
whirls and points a scabby finger at you. ‘It is that
one! she screeches. “Ihe prophecy of the winged
messenger is fulfilled! Our Protector has come to
save us from the creeping horde! Tell us that you
will stay with us and deliver us from eyil.’ If you
agree to the old woman’s demands, turn to 208. If
you tell her she is mistaken, turn to 160.

You spur your horse once more to a gallop, race
through the city gates and along the Way of Flint to
the palace. There you confront two of the palace
guard. the only soldiers left in the city. ‘State your
business, peasant,” one of them grunts, ‘we have no
need of kitchen hands.’ You step back in astonish-
ment at theirimpudence. Surely they must know of
you? If you insist that you are on a vital mission,
turn to 49. If you decide to draw your sword and
threaten the guardsmen, turn to 210,
68-70

68

The door at the far end of the chamber slams open
deafeningly, and in strides Bythos, This is not the
Bythos you killed earlier, but a towering giant, fully
fifty feet tall. His gaunt, leering features are all the
more threatening for their size, and his elegant
robes billow about his huge frame. If you smashed
the goblet, turn to 149. Otherwise, turn tu.225.

Mema shricks as the black cloud rises and moves
towards you, swimming through the air like a black
velvet shroud. You are overcome by panic and you
wrench violently at your steed’s reins. Mema is
nearly swept off the horse’s back as you whirl
around and race off. You risk a slance behind you,
and see the black cloud swarming after you. A
metallic buzzing fills your ears. As it approaches,
you realize that itis a swarm of black hornets, each
the size of a locust. As they swirl above your head,
you brace yourself for the impact, but it never
comes. You gallop on, hoping against hope that you
will have time to getall the villagers clear before the
hornets arrive. Turn to 35.

70

Taking care to keep out of sight, you trail the army
as it sweeps across the countryside. Before it enters
the next village, the black cknid rises from the
palanquin and descends upon the seltlement. Soon
after, the villagers emerge and join the growing
horde. The same fate befalls other villages in the
7i-72

army's path, until eventually Kallamehr itself is in
sight, You have failed the city— your cowardice has
condemned it to destniction.

73
You creep along the walkway until you reach the
point where it meets the keep. From here itis onlya
short drop on to the slichtly sloping roof of the keep
of the palace. Above you rises the keep’s tower; but
you devote your attention to the keep below. The
winged creature came from one of the windows
below, but you're not certain which one. The keep
has four walls looking into the courtyard, and each
has a small casement window. Around the edge of
the keep runs a row of ornamental spikes, round
which you will be able to loop the rope. You will be
able to lower yourself down the wall to peer in at
each of the windows. Which wall do you lower
yourself down first:

The far left wall? Turn to 397
The left centre wall? Turn to 94
‘The right centre wall? Tum to 238
The far right wall? Turn to 340

72
Suddenly you hear a croak from near by. You turn
towards the noise and see a human face, embedded
in a greenish slime, ‘You must flee,’ itsays feebly-_ ‘1,
Enthymesis, have failed to slay Maijem-Nosoth. I
have little time left to live, but you musi escape. Do
not go near the sands; they lead to the Abyss!

73-74

Hurry, the beast returns!’ If you hurry back down
the passage which brought you here, turn to 230. lf
you make forthe centre of the chamber, turn to 263.

73

As the golden statuette tumbles out of your back-
pack, a sigh goes up from the priests. ‘Caught
red-handed!’ snaps the lfigh Priest. A priest lifts the
Golden Fist reverently from the ground and placesit
carefully on a plinth in the centre of the Temple. His
fellows then join him in a circle.around it, and they
begin to chant. As the priests seem to have tempor-
arily forgotten you, you would like to make a
stealthy exit from the Temple, but your feet are
rooted to the spot. The priests’ chanting swells, and
2 warm green glow begins to seep through the
fingers of the Fist. As you watch, the fingers uncurl,
revealing a green gem. It floats lazily above the now
open palm of the golden hand. Its glow is too bright
for you to bear. Then it subsides, and you find
yourself free to move. The priests have been trans-
formed; no longer heavy with years, now they are
young, fit fighting-priests. Two of them break from
the circle and gesture for you to accompany them.
They lead you down a corridor to a cell, Cross the
Golden Fist off your possessions. Tum to 353-

74
Madhaerios flushes bright crimson, then bursts into
tears. Rising from his seat, he totters over to the
coffin and plants his puffy lips on those of his dead
cousin. Then, quivering all over, he returns to his
75-77

seat and collapses into it. Carolina’s lips retain their
pallor, and the crowd begins to mutter. “How dare
you be so tactless,’ says Dunyazad. She turns to the
suards and says quietly, “Arrest the presumptuous
dog.’ Before you can defend yourself they are upon
you, Turn to 355.

7
Leaving the crystal statues to their frozen contem-
plation, you press on into the mist. Soon you can
hear an ominous creaking from up ahead. Turn
tk) 237,

m5

You just have enough time to glimpse a small, slimy
green form, cramped within the cupboard, before
you are engulfed in a choking cloud of gritty pow-
der. You drop your sword and clutch at your face-
Your eyes burn, your nose starts to run and you
Tetch violently {lose 1 point of sTAMINa). Then
whatever was in the cupboard comes tumbling out
and worms its way between your legs. If vou wish to
make a stab atit, roll 6vo dice. if the result is fess (han
YOUr SKILL, turn to 172. If the result is greater than or
equal to your SxiL., orif you don’t want to grab the
creature, turn to 194.

77
Though you Jand painfully, you manage to grasp
the stirrup in your hands, and tug atit to calm your
panicking mare. Grabbing her reins and bridie, you
force her to the ground and hide behind her while

75—So

the sandstorm rages around you. You wait for the
wind to subside. Turn to 98.

78

Your ssword flashes from its scabbard and you ad-
vance on the vast figure. ‘Impertinent fool!’ he
bellows, and lets loose a freezing blast. Crystals
form on your skin, but quickly melt away, leaving
Bythos momentarily at a loss. However, he soon
rallies and rapidly fashions a sword from crystal.
Against such a huge and skilful opponent you can-
not possibly prevail, and you die heroically here,
battling to the very end.

79
The Winged Assassin lets out a choked hiss and
reels backwards and up. You have no time to follow
its erratic flight, as the heat in the room is now
overpowering. Will you:

Run for the doar? Turn to 61
Climb out of the window? Turn to 262
Look for another way out? Turn to 323

80
The vision disappears. The woman claps her hands
and smiles. ‘You are bright, for all your ragyed
looks. It seems destiny has suided you this far, so |
must play my part in its design, Many tnals he
before you, and your enemy is not easily yan-
quished. But Bythos has fears, and you may be his
nemesis. Enthymesis has gone on ahead of you, and
81-82

his aid will be invaluable-’ If you have Sige’s poman-
der, turn to 295. If you do not, turn to 124-

81

As your mount crashes to the ground, you leap from
her back. Although you land heavily, you are un-
harmed, Sadly, the same cannot be said for the
mare, One of her front legs is twisted. She limps
towards you and nuzzles your face, as if to apolo-
gize. She cannot be ridden, so you'll have to lead her
to the nearest village and get another horse. Turn
bo 155-

$2

The cavern hasa high ceiling, anda fine mist of sand
falls from it. The middle of the floor is covered with
sand, and quivers slightly. Strewn carelessly across
the sand are an assortment of incredible relics and
treasures — a magical hoard the like of which you
have never seen. With each tremor of the sand they
sink deeper. A faint whistling, as of wind in a
ravine, reaches your ears. Check the time boxes on
your Adventure Sheet and turn to the paragraph
given below for the number of boxes you have
crossed off:

Fewer than 13 boxes Turn to 72
13-17 boxes Turn to 309
More than 17 boxes € Tum to 343

83-85

83
As you parry the first guard's blow, you almost fall
over. Your reactions are dulled from lack of sleep.
Reduce your SKILL by 2 paints.

SKILL STAMINA
First GUARD F 8
Second GUARD 6 ?

You must fight both the guards together. At the
beginning of each Attack Round, you must decide
which of the two you are going to fight; resolve the
battle against him as normal. You should also roll
two dice to determine your Attack Strength against
the other guard, then two dice again for his Attack
Strength against you for that Attack Round. You
will notinjure him if your Attack Strength is greater:
you will simply parry his blow. If his Attack
Strength is greater than yours, then he will damage
you in the normal way. If you defeat both the
guardsmen, turn to 102.

84
Your shot goes wide, striking the wall with a spark
some distance behind the guard. He turns, readies
his crossbow and edges back along the walkway.
You realize that this is your chance to slip away
unseen. Turn fo 151-

85
You take the Gatherer by surprise, your sword
smashing him to the ground. Beneath the cowl is an
emaciated, almost skeletal form. Turn to 27.
86-87

86

You prepare to battle this terrifying foe. Then you
notice a pair of fancy boots poking down through
the smoke-hole. They are followed by a gaudily
dressed figure who spirals effortlessly down a coil-
ing rope. His billowing, brightly coloured clothing
is completely out of place in this grubby hut. The
figure bows to you expansively, and hails you.
‘Greetings, traveller! I am called the Riddling
Reaver, and, as luck would have it, I'm here to
rescue you. I've been keeping an eye on you, and
since you've made a complete pig's ear of things so
far, I've decided to save your bacon. If you waste
your time on every peasant who begs you to wipe his
nose, then Kallamehr has no chance.” He twitches
and giggles to himself. Pointing to the snake-like
rope, he says, “This is the end of the line. So hurry
up and get hold of it!’ He spirals effortlessly up the
rope, just as you hear the bar scrape hack from the
door behind you. If you grab the rope, turn to 96. If
not, turn to 236.

87

You cannot begin t count the number of magical
items strewn about you. Several catch your eye: a
gem-enctusted breastplate (far too small for you), a
huge pair of shiny boots (apparently made of feath-
ers), 2 golden fist, a pearlinlaid skull, an onyx
sceptre and a crystal globe mounted on a velvet
plinth. If you wish to take any of these, note down
which ones you take on your Adventure Sheet. Then
you head into the mist. Turn to 116.
88-89

88

‘Tasbadh continues at length with tales of his own
heroic exploits, which grow ever more outageous.
You soon realize that he is beginning to contradict
himself, and you svonder if the man is truly suffer-
ing from a deadly curse. Tick off a time box. If you
arree to give him food and money, turn to 177- ff
you doubt his tale and ride off without him, tum
te 308.

89

The river leads inte a tunnel in the side of a moun-
tain, and you are swept mto darkness. Aftera short
while, the river sweeps round a bend and you are
washed up on a rocky shelf, which is worm smooth
by the pounding water. As you lie there, sodden
and panting, you take a look at your surroundings.
A guttering torch has been driven into a crevice
near by, and by its light you see that, once round the
bend, the river mans beneath an arch- Iron bars are
set into the arch, blocking entry. Behind you, lead-
ing from the rocky shelf, isa dark tunnel, with light
flickering along its walls. If you re-enter the water
and examine the bars, turn to 277. IF you investigate
the tunnel, turn to 362.

go-92

As thunderous steps approach the chamber from
the other door, you begin to feel strangely sleepy.
Your eyes blur and their lids feel heavy. You slump
against the goblet and start to snore. You never
wake up.

91

You pass through a string of deserted villages. You
are overwhelmed by a sense of isolation, of terrible
loneliness, as you fravel through this wasteland,
How can you save a country ail of whose people
have vanished with hardly a trace? You lose all
sense of time, as there is nothing to mark one day
from the next. Your purpose gone, you wander
aimlessly. Finally casting your sword away, you
meander through the countryside, Your adventure
ends here.

92
Before you leave, Lady Carolina gives you a sealed
scroll to deliver to Yunan, commander of her army.
She wishes you the Luck of Castis on your mission,
and directs you to choose the best steed from her
93

stables. Soon you are galloping away from Kal-
lamehr, Tick off a time box. You have travelled
several leagues and arc just thinking of stopping for
a swig of ale from your bottle when your horse
suddenly stumbles. Tes! your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 81. If you are Unlucky, turn to 192.

93
The chunk of crystal you are standing on starts to

turn over, and you slide from it into the murky black
liquid. As you flounder towards the crystal floor,
the black shape falls from the clouds and on to the
surface. You have no time to take in its features, for
your leg is grabbed by stinging tentacles and you
slip beneath the water. You will have to fight your
way free. Ifyou donot have your sword, turn to 184-

TENTACLES SKILL 6

If you are still fighting after four Attack Rounds,
turn to 20. If you defeat the Tentacles within four
Attack Rounds, turn to 146-

STAMINA 5

You lower yourself slowly down the wall unfil you
are level with the window. Then you crane your
head round to peer in. The room is quite sparingly
furnished, containing nothing more than a bed, a
couple of chairs and a dressing-table with mirror.
On the bed, Asiah Albudur sits bolt upright, fully
dressed. She stares at one of the empty chairs and
seems to be conducting a conversation. You catch
brief snatches: ‘...1 remember when you first
came to Kallamehr and I introduced you to Baron
Bluestone. Who would have known then that you
were to marry him? . -. Such a sweet innocent
young thing, you were... What's that? . . - You
must stop worrying about Kallamehr, Carolina, I’m
sure Madhaerios has everything under control - . -”
There’s no more you can learn here. You pull your-
self back up the wall of the keep. If this is the third
window you have looked in, turn to 25. Otherwise,
you may return to your quarters (turn to 151), or
investigate any of the following, if you have nat
done so already:

The far lef wall Tum to 397
The right centre wall Turn to 218
The far right wall Turn to 3490
95-96

5

Your attention is drawn to the far end of the valley,
way off to your night. You shiver involuntarily, and
the hairs on the nape of your neck rise. Your horse
shies and whinnies in terror. A thick stench fills
your lungs. The sparse slopes are being slowly
enveloped by an advancing wave of black lava. . .
or soit seems. Your eyes adjust to the distance and
vou see that the oozing black mass is not liquid, but
a seething ocean of people. Even as you watch, it
seeps closer, spreading like a dark stain. You have
found the invading army, but will you survive to
make use of your knowledge? There are many more
people in the horde below than in Kallamehr's
entire army. If vou ride down into the valley to take
acloser look, turn to 153. If you gallop off to your left
to try to reach the village, turn to 358.

No sooner have vou erasped the end of the rope
than you are jerked violently off your feet. You are
swept upwards and out through the smoke-hole.
Below you, the torches of the angry villagers
97

dwindle, and their wails can just be heard through
the din. The angry buzzing comes from above, but
all you can see is a huge black shadow. You are
carried through the air for some way, before being
set down with a bump on solid ground. The Reaver
spins down the rope and alights near you, and this
time he is cradling a peculiarly shaped boitle in his
arms. He holds it out to you, and you see that it ts
shaped like a particularly ugly fish. “You'll be need-
ing this,’ says the Reaver, passing you the bottle. ‘Tn
it is a sense of humour which | stole several years
ago, in my impetuous youth. You'll be meeting its
former owner soon, so you'd better give it back to
him: there’s nothing so soft asa villam with a sense
of humour!’ He winks knowingly at you and, with-
out another word, shoots up the rape. The buzzing
rises in pitch, and the black shadow drifts off. You
are alone, lost, without your horse. Wearily, you
settle down to wait out the rest of the night. Turn to

331.

97

You land deftly, rolling forward to absorb the shock.
As yau straighten up, you feel your back spattered
with some viscous liquid, which begins to bubble
and hiss. You tear off your jerkin and fling it into a
nearby water-trough. As it hits the water, a plume
of steam mises into the air, and the water bubbles
furiously. Stepping backwards, you look up
cautiously, With an intense whine a black-winged
creature rolls high into the air and disappears into
the night, Turn to 111.

g§—100

When the dust finally settles, you find yourself
staring at an expanse of forest. Its presence is inex-
plicable — you saw no sign of it before the sand-
storm. Intrigued, you approach and lead your horse
along a faintly marked path between the trees, into
the silent forest. Soon the narrow path forks at a
massive, creeper-strewn free with drooping. fox-
gloves covering its roots. Looking around, vou see
the undergrowth is thick and impenetrable, and
you resolve to tether your horse here before investi-
gating further. If you take the left-hand path, write
down the number ‘3° on your Adventure Sheet and
turn to 268_ If you take the nghthand path, write
down the number ‘2° on your Adventure Sheet and
turn to 388. If you examine the tree and the plants
which cover it, turn to 356.

99
Slipping back over the spikes, you slide down the

rough rope. You land lightly in the courtyard and
hurry into the shadows near by, keeping your eye
on the guard above you. You look across to the door
of the servants’ quarters, wondering if you'll be able
to make it over there unobserved. Turn to 204.

100

The bushes give way to nothingness. Fora moment
you hang on the edge ofa precipice, before the earth
beneath your feet crumbles away. Then you are
hurtling down, down, down. The chasm is very
deep. The ground rushes up to meet you . . -
101-102

101

‘Who?’ the woman screeches, the vision disintegrat-
ing before you, ‘Thave no time for tricksters, but you
may be more to the tasteof my companion.” You feel
a soft weight upon your shoulders, and tum to find
yourself staring into the eyes of a huge serpent
‘Caduceus! A new plaything for you!’ the woman
cackles. The snake slithers round your neck before
you can grab it and fling it from you. Then, very
slowly, the coils tighten. Your adventure ends here.

102

You realize that wearing Sige’s pomander has sap
ped your strength. You remember her words when
she gave it to you: ‘li is a valuable magicel item
blessed with the luck of the gods.’ "Which gods?’
you wander, for surely it has brought you more bad
fortune than good. If you remove the pomander
from around your neck, tum to 355- If you keep the
pomander on, turn to 159-

103-104

103
You edge down the side of the bowl, treading
carefully to keep your footing on the slippery rock.
As vou teach the bottom, six Crystal Waniors
carTying huge crystal hammers climb over the rim of
the crater and advance on you. Turn to 201,

104
You are sitting at a table with the five nobles, cating
2 fine meal to fortify you as they give vou your final
briefing. They are being waited on by their own
servants, while Carolina has assigned one of her
pages to take care of you. Madhaerios warns you
against taking any incautious action yourself, ‘itis.
most important that you return t tell us of the
nature of this menace so that we may know how
best to defend against it,” he explains. While
Dunyazad isin the middle of advising you to rest at
the Temple of Fourga, you feel a light touch on your
lez. You look around and see the page who was
Waiting upon you walking away. Looking down
into your lap you see a folded fragment of paper.

The page must have dropped this as he refilled your

goblet. If you pick it up to read it straight away, turn
to 264. If you ship it into your pocket to read later,
furn to 23.

105-108

105
Your sword flashes up to parry, Roll twa dice. If the
result is less tian your SKILL, turn to 241. If il is
greater than or equai fo your SKIL1, turn to 274.

106
Luckily the cave mouth is large enough to take both
you and your horse, but a rude shock awaits you
within. A ‘pathetic Caveman, clutching a large bon e,
leaps up to strike you as you enter, knocking the
theera torch from your hand. You draw your sword
and attack.

CAVEMAN SKILL? STAMINA 7

lf vou defeat him within five Attack Rounds, turn to
144. If you are still fighting at the end of five Attack
Rounds, turn to 181.

10

Your lungs ache for auere of air, and your heart
pounds madly as you try to break the hold the
creature has on you. But itis to no avail; your arms
srow steadily weaker. You gulp in your last mouth-
ful of wine.

108
Bythos topples to the ground, shattering ito a
myriad tiny fragments. You reel in the chain until
the wall of cells breaks through the clouds; you then
rip the bars off, freeing its miniature occupants.
Thousands upon thousands of them fotter feebly
out of the cells and mill around, gazing about them
108

in wonderment. When they have all emerged, you
lead them back across the crystal wastes to the
palace, There you are greeted by the cowled Ser-
vants; they bow low and proclaim you the new
Ruler of the Abyss. Now you must find 2 way ot
returning to Kallamehr, so you ask them how it is
done. They tell you that Bythos used a rare blue
crystal, powdered and dissolved in water, to travel
to the earthly plane. Some remains, stored in the
palace, and the Servants set about preparing the
potion, Time passes as they complete their task.
Finally they present to you a huge vessel full of dear
blue liquid. The newly appointed Gatherer steps
forward and speaks. “Majesty, a great quantify of
this potion is required io transfer your mighty
being. We have prepared as much as we could, but
unfortunately there is not enough both for you and
for all these spirits to be returned. You must make a
choice.’ If you drink the blue liquid yourself, turn to
205. If you divide it among the citizens of Kal
lamehr, turn to 250.

109-110

You follow Tasbadh into the tavern. As you enter,
the mighty hero is being threatened by the tavern-
keeper who grips him by his jerkin and shouts at
him: ‘No more drinks for you, you old faker! This’ll
just about pay off your slate! If you want more
booze, then I'll see your money first!’ You curse
yourself for being fooled by the drunkard, and step
back into the street, seething. There’s nothing to be
done but mount your horse and continue on your
journey. Turn to 7-

110
You draw the locket from its leather pouch and hold
itup above your head forall to see. The citizens near
you back away in awe. You are about to tell how
Ramedes was slain, when thereisa screech from the
platform in front of you. ‘Sacrilege! Svize the thief!’
Sige is pointing at you, her body trembling with
rage. Madhaerios is staring open-mouthed at the
locket. Dunyazad cries: ‘Tt is the relic of which
Carola spoke on her death-bed — the Fate of Ran-
gor.’ Sige cuts her short with an imperious gesture.
‘Guards! Luthaur! Kill this treacherous dag.’ Tf you
try to open the locket, turn to 376- If you draw your
sword and try to fight off the guards, turn to 399.
11i-112

111

By nosy a smal} crowd of townsfolk has gathered to
watch the spectacle. From behind you comes a
creaking noise, followed by 2 yawning crash. You
turn in time to see the roof of the inn collapse,
sending up a cascade of swirling sparks. You are
just wondering where you are going to spend the
nivht when you fecl the light touch of metal against
your neck, and a gruff voice whispers, ‘One move
and you're a cut of beef, stranger.’ Out of the frying
pan and into the fire! If you stay still as the voice
advises, turn t» 341. If you wish to act, you May
shout for help (turn to 200) or try to disarm him (turn
to 292).

iz

You follow him stealthily as he makes his way out oi!
the bow], to a crystal chariot waiting near by. It is
drawn by two Ectovults and driven by a small
Crystal Sprite, who bows humbly as his master
climbs into the chariot. Then they are off. You try to
keep up with them, but the chariot is too fast for
you. Soon you are left alone and lost in the desolate
crystal wastes. Your adventure ends here.

E13—-114

113

itis ime to flee, but your horse beats you to it. She
rears violently, throwing you tu the ground, and
then bolts. You fall awkwardly and feel your left leg
crumple beneath you. You try to stand up, and the
pain hits home. You black out fora moment. When
you open your eyes once more, black sparks are
dancing before them A deafening drone surrounds
you. Then the pain comes once moe. Turn to 336,

lig
You feel a soft weight drop upon your shoulder.
You furn your head to find yourself staring into the
eves of 2 serpent. You shudder and automatically
grab forit. But it is too fast for you. In an instant its
thick coils are wrapped around your neck. ’Meect
Caduceus,’ says the woman. Turn tuo 307.
115-116

115

The creature appears in a shimmering haze, but
rapidly scuttles towards you. Your eyes ache simply
from looking at its foul, ulcerous body. Its single
claw clacks repeatedly against its slimy carapace
and, with cach movement it makes, a new fide of
nausea sweeps over you. Remembering Enthy-
mesis’s words, you blow a shmill blast on the whis-
tle. The creature flinches, but continues to advance
slowly. You will have to battle it while blowing as
hard as you can on the whistle!

MAIJEM-NOSOTH SKILL 10 STAMINAI(C

If you do not have your sword, you fight at —2, and
may not strike Killing blows. If you defeat the crea-
ture, turn to 316.

116

You make your way through the shifting mists,
treading carefully on the slippery ground beneath
your feet. As you walk, you notice shapes moving
beneath the translucent surface. The mist muffles
sound, but a screeching whistle penetrates. Test
vour Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 193. [f you are
Unlucky, turn to 209-

117-118

117

As you charge up the stairs towards him, he looses
off a crossbow bolt at you. At this range he can
hardly miss, but you throw yourself against the wall
in an attempt to dodge. The bolt catches you in the
side and you wheel backwards, gripping it. The
pain doubles you up and you lose your balance,
slipping from the steps. You land on the packed dirt
of the courtyard, the impact driving the bolt deep
into you, Your adventure ends here.

118
The crossbow bolt thuds into the palace guard, and
with a shriek he tumbles from the walkway down
into the courtyard. You are just congretulafing
yourself on your accuracy when you hear shouting
from the guard tower opposite the keep. A troop of
guards pile out and begin to search the area. You are
quickly spotted and overwhelmed by them. Tum

tO 355.

119-120

119

Yhile searching through the palace you have in-
herited, you come upon a scrying mntor, set into a
wall of crystal. A Servant shuffles forward and
shows you how to use it; you train it on Kallamehr,
hoping to see the fruits of your sacrifice. Sure
enough, the fields are full of villagers once more.
Yet a shadow still hangs over the land. As you focus
it on Kallamehr’s palace, you see Sige the Silent
being invested as the new Lord of Kallamehr, She is
aware of your gaze, for she stares back at you and
sneets. “The Abyss may be yours,’ she whispers,
‘but Kallamehr is mine, now and for ever! JE seems
you have saved Kallamchr’s people, only to aban-
don them to a dark tyrant,

120
You must now fight the other two Elves,

SKILL STAMINA
Second BLACK ELF z é
Third BLACK ELF 6
—i_,__

121

Fight both the Elves at the same time. Each will
make a separate attack on you during each Attack
Round, but you must choose which of the two you
will fight. Fight your nominated target as in a nor-
mal battle. Against the other, throw the dice for
your Attack Strength in the normal way, but you
will not wound it if your Attack Strength is greater;
you will just have parried its blow. Of course, if its
Attack Strength is greater, it will have wounded
you in the normal way. if you defeat the Elves, tum
bo 311.

121

Looking down the street you see a pair af rough-
looking peasants who seem to be gazing at you
tather intently. As you approach them, you notice
that their awed gaze is not directed af you, but at
something behind you. You twist round in your
saddle, to find yourself staring ata silent line of men
and women in the robes of priests. You tum to spur
your horse on, but another line of priests has
appeared ahead of you, and one snatches the reins
from your hand. There is nothing you can do. The
priests close in and raise their clubs. Turn to 239.

422-124

122

The Troll looks round cautiously as you approach,
waiting for you to act. He doesn’t seem hostile; he is
more concerned with rooting out whatever he has
trapped in the hole. He hasn’t had much success
yet, probably because his tiny brain hasn‘t thought
of stripping the branches from the sapling, so it
keeps catching on the edges of the hole, Ifyou attack
him, turn to 6. If you suggest he strips the leaves off
his tree, turn to 345.

133

The way forward begins to slope downwards, and
the forest floor beneath your feet starts to soften.
Soon you are squelching through boggy ground,
with mud sucking at your shins. Flies begin tohome
in on you, and the heat saps your strength. Lose 1
point of STAMINA. After an hour's painful pro-
gress, the ground rises and the track you are on
meets another. There is nothing to distinguish this
part of the forest from the others you have been
through, but you must choose whether to go along
the new track to the left or the nght. If you go right,
turn to 132. If you go left, turn to 231.

i24
You are some way up the immense chain when you

lose your grip, slithering and sliding downit, then
falling to the hard crystal below, The number you
rolled is the number of STAMINA points you lose, If
you wish to try again, roll one die. Ifthe result isa6,
turn to 219. If the result is 1-5, lose that number of
125

STAMINA points and choose again. If you would
prefer to investigate the ceaking sound, turn to 237.

125
When you reach the village’s stockade the army is
no longer visible, but you know that it is only 2 2
matter of time before it will sw cep over this settle
ment. Stranyely, the gates are shut when you ar-
tive, 50 you leap from your horse and hammer on
them, bellowing t) be let in. You look up in time to
see a face staring down al you, but it pulls back
when you catch it; eye. A quavermg voice from
behind the palisade tells you to leave. You try to
explain to the frightened ‘villagers that they must
flee, butin yain. Even as you speak, the black horde
is darkening the hilltop in the distance. You aban-
don the villagers to their fate and ride on. Turn to 53.

—- a

126-127

126
You abandon the wretch to his fate and turn back to
climb the dark flight of steps. As you set foot on the
first stair, you hear a faint pattering behind you.
You turn to see what it is, but you are too late to
avoid the blow. Turn to 355-

127

Gulping in a hungful of air, you reach down and
grasp the bars, then pull yourself under, until you
can kick with your feet. There isa small gap between
the bars and the bed of the river, through which you
wll be able to swim. The water is faintly illuminated
by the torchlight up above, and as you edge through
the gap you notice that the river-bed is littered with
countless treasures. Your attention is caught by a
jewelencrusted sword, its pommel an enormaus
blue gem which pulses with an inner light. If you
swim down to grab the sword, turn to 247. If you
carry on under the bars, turn to 377-
128-129

128

You slip into one of the buildings near by and try to
find some clue to explain the mystery of the aban-
doned village. You quickly realize that you have
entered the house of a wizard or herbalist. Frayrant
drying herbs, arcane books and scrolls, and vials of
coloured liquids litter a desk in the comer to your
night. To your left sits a mine-carved table, on which
hes a half-eaten knuckle of cured ham. Across the
tar wall you see a row of puppets, danghng on their
strings from a high shelf above a cupboard. Ifyou go
to look at them, turn to 244. If you examine the
wizard’s paraphernalia, turn to 333.

You spur your tired horse through the familiar
countryside of Kallamehr province, pausing only
briefly at watering-holes and resisting the tempta-
hon to stop and wam everyone you pass. On and on
you ride, until your mare begins to stumble and you
know she can go on no further. You must haye rest
if you are to reach Kallamehr- You are almost falling
out of your saddle as you mde into Kamadan, an
affluent markettown. An ostler helps you from
130-131

your horse and you lurch into the inn. With barely a
gruntat the innkeeper, you stagger up the stairs and
into the nearest room. You collapse, exhausted, on
the rickety bed. If you have Sige’s pomander, turn
to 44. If not, turn tog.

130
You trudge wearily down to the rooming-house you
were staying at before you left Kallamehr. What
happened to Lady Carolina? One minute you were
on a life-and-death mission to save the city, the next
you were virtually ignored. You spend a frustrating
night in the seedy rooming-house, turning these
matters over in your mind. Tick off a time box. Next
morning you return to the palace, to find that you
are not the only one who wishes to enter—2 column
of citizens is filing sombrely through the gates. You
join them, listening to their speculation as to the
cause of Carolina’s sudden demise. Some say it was
grief at the horrific death of her husband, while
others claim that dark powers were responsible.
You enter the courtyard and see the body lying m
state, flanked by guards. Ona platform behind the
catafalque sit Madhaerios, Dunyazad of Ikhtiyan,
Asiah Albudur and Sige the Silent. Turn to 344.

131
If you have any remaining potions labelled “Arahl’,

‘Zazzaz’ and ‘Ghulsh’, you may add any or all of

them to the brew. Make a note of which potions you
add. If you wait to see what happens now, turn to
68, If you wish to drink the brew, turn to 45.

132-134

132
The track you are on winds slowly upwards, and
you begin to tire of the endless foot-slogginy. Lose 1
point of sTAMINA. Finally you emerge from the
trees on to a grassy knoll which peeps out above the
forest. Sitting down for a brief rest, you survey
the featureless forest canopy below which stretches
as far as you can see in every direction. Two other
paths lead back into the forest from the knoll. You
may take the one which leads towards the sun (turn
to 232), or the other, darker route (turn to 342).

133
The path follows the river downstream for some
way before turning into the trees. Very soon you are
back at the glade with the mighty oak, and pleased
to see your horse still safely tethered, munching
contentedly at the grass. You mount up and spur
her along the path and out of the forest, glad to be
away from the trees and their treacherous path-
ways. After several minutes, you look back and are
astonished to see a sparkling blue lake where the
forest should be. Far off, in its midst, a tiny hut rises
abore the waters, supported by its familiar spindly
legs. Aletheia has many ways of discouraging un-
welcome visitors to her realm, it seems. Now you
have a weapon, itis time to confront the vast horde
. alone. Turn to 325-

134
Whatever you give Barolo, cross it off your Adver-
ture Steet. Barolo thanks you for yaur gift, and
135—137

wishes you good luck in your mission. You wave
him goodbye and ride off. Tick off a time box and
turn to 290.

135
The Anemorus is black and obscenely blubbery.
Though limbless, ithas a posverful tail which it uses
to push itself towards you. A writhing mass of
pinkish tentacles sits where its head should be. If
you do not have your sword, turn to 184. Otherwise
you must fight the Anemorus.

ANEMORUS SKILL5
Tf you kill the Anemorus, turn to 357-

STAMIKAID

136
Your journey continues once more, as you attempt
to make up some of the time you have lost. If you
decide to cut across country, turn to 287- Ifyou stick
to the roads, turn to 256.

137
You slip into the stables. The horses stir uncasily,
but you whisper gently to them and they soon
quieten. Making yourself comfortabie in a pile of
straw, you await the dawn. Tick off a ime box and
turn tb 276. ap

138-140

138
Have you lit your Jheera torch yet? If so, turn to 199-
If not, turn to 172-

139

Shaken by your experience, you return to yaur
horse. Soon you are riding once more through the
woodland. Tick off a time box. The road begins to
slope downwards, and you wend your way along
its many curves until you are following the banks uf
a fast-flowing stream. The sun is lowering in the sky
behind you, and the air is alive with the noises of
insects. Ahead of you is a crude stockade. You ride
in and are quickly surrounded by a dozen curious
villagers. They seem much friendlier than most
others you have encountered so far, and you begin
t) hope that you will be treated hospitably here.
Sure enough, you are invited inside for a meal anda
drink (restore up to 4 STAMINA points). Soon you
are relaxing inthe pleasant company of these simple
folk. After a while you hear a commotion from
outside your hut, and several villagers slip out. If
you follow them outside, furn to 66. If you stay with
your hosts in the hut, turn to 385.

140
You are led straight down to the stables to choose
your horse. While you are preparing to leave, tall
Sige approaches. Her voice is low, almost inaudible,
and you understand how she came ty be called *the
Silent’. She tells you that she has a valuable magical
item which will aid you on your journey and bring

—
ee te

141

you the luck of the gods. It is a pomander of rare
herbs —if worn around your neckit will also remove
your need for sleep. lt is passed up to vou by Sige’s
servant, a2 poor deformed creature who shuffles
slowly and wears a hood, no doubt to hide his
pilteously ugly face. Sige quietly wishes you a safe
and fruitful journey. Bundling together your pos-
sessions, you hurry into the bustling courtyard.
With no time for ceremony, you mount your steed
and pick your way through the crowd to the gate. A
swift ride along the Way of Flint brings you to
Kallamchr’s Grand Gate. Tum fo 329.

141
‘Most kind!’ says Bythos, reaching out to take the
Golden Fist. He tosses it over his shoulder, then
draws in a deep breath. Before you can act, a freez-
ing blast strikes you, and crystals form on your skin.
They quickly melt, however, and Bythos advances
on you. If you flee, turn to 335. If you would rather
attack, turn to 149.

142-143

142
You wade through the wine towards the spot where
the body fell. As you peer down into the murky
depths an arm shoots up from the wine and grabs
your leg. Caught off balance, you tumble head first
inte the dark liquid. A moment later the creature is
on top of you, its hands grabbing your shoulders
and forcing you down. The wine closes over your
head. Roll two dice. If the result is jess fhan your
STAMINA, turn to 391. [f the result is greater than or
ayual fo your STAMINA, turn to 107-

143

Luthauris fighting with a wickedly barbed scimitar,
its blade darkened. As it slices into your flesh, you
feel a stinging sensation which begins rapidly to
spread. Luthaur’s sword is envenomed — hardly the
action of a hero. As the poison takes hold and you
topple off the platform, you spita last, defiant curse
at the treacherous rat who has killed you. Your
adventure ends here.
—

144-147

144

You snatch up the extinguished Jheera torch and set
about relighting it. It is smouldering once more as
the first hornets gather in the entrance to the cave.
You rush to the back of the cave and watch as the
cloud swarms towards you. For a moment you fear
that the smoke is not harming the homets; then they
begin to fall. Soon the cave flonris littered with dead
and dying bodies. When you are certain that it is
safe once more, you ride out and down towards the
horde. Turn to 235-

145
You sit and stare at the hut, looking for signs of life.
There is a heat-haze around you, and you realize
how much your trek through the forest has tired
you. If you have Sige’s pomander, tum to 152.
Otherwise turn to 29.

146
You drag yourself away from the tentacles and
clamber up on to the crystal . - . only to find your-

self facing the creature you saw land earlier. Turn
to 135.

147
You wind back the crossbow’s string and fit a bolt.

Taking careful aim, you shoot. You are rewarded by
a how! of pain from the Troll, and he glares at you
from across the river. Before you have an opportun-
ity to shoot again, though, he has crashed off into
the undergrowth. Turn to 381.

148-150

Nes
148

A black shadow hovers above you — but before you
can focus on it you hear. a high-pitched scream
which changes to a gurgle, and sticky grey slime
spatters your face. Pain grips you by the head, and
you lose your grip on the window-sill, There is a
ghastly snap as you Jand, but the acid on yaur face
has already done its foul work. Your adventure
ends here.

149
Bythos takes a step back in amazement, ‘Gatherer!

What treason is this” he bellows. The door behind
you opens and cowled figures pour into the room.
You draw your sword but have no opportunity to
use if. Skeletal Servants of Bythos overwhelm you
and hold you before their master. Turn t 313.

150

You drag the bodies of the guardsmen into the
nearby ditch and stride into the palace courtyard.
The first person you mect is a footman; he is laden
down by the weight of a heavy chest he is carrying
and is hurrying towards the stables. When he sees
you, he hails you and demands to know your busi-
ness. You tell him you have an uryent message fur

Lady Dunyazad. He directs you to an antechamber
151-154

and promises to fetch the nablewoman. As the
footman scurries off, you make your way into the
antechamber and wait. Turn to 310.

151
You slip down the rope to the courtyard and, keep-
ing in the shadows around its edge, begin to make
your way back to the servants’ quarters. You notice
a guardsman marching along the walkway on the
walls. If you had remained on the roof of the keep he
would probably have spotted you. Tur to 204-

152

Soon you become too impatient to wali any longer.
You can hear faint movements from within the hut,
but nothing more happens. You call out, but if there
is anyone within the hut they are ignoring you. You
will have to take the initiative. If you walk under the
hut, turn to 254. lf you climb up one of the legs, turn
to 202.

153
You dig your feet into the flanks of your unwilling
mare, and she trots down the slope. The nearer you
get to the mass below, the more you are stuck by its
sheer size, The rank smell hangs heavy, almost
physically repelling you. If Mema is with you, turn
to 283. If not, turn to 306,

154
The Gatherer stops his chanting when he sees you
and stoops to pick up a small shard of crystal with a

155-156

skeletal hand. He takes each end and pulls it out
until he holds a ragged crystal javelin, which he
then hurls at you. Tum to 105.

155

Your walk to the nearest village takes you the better
part of an aftemoon. By now, you think ta yourself,

whoever was sent to scout to the east will be leagues
ahead of you — even though you left Kallamehr
before them. When you finally reach the settlement,
you are treated with respect. The village elder recog-
nizes the seal on the scroll you bear and is quick to
furnish you with the fastest horse in the village.
Soon you are thundering along the road, trying to
make up some of the time you lost. The sun is half
way below the rim of the world, and shadows streak
the greying fands around you, when you sve a dark
bundle lying on the road ahead. [f you ignore it and
continue at a gallop, tur to 301. If you stop ta
exaTine it, turn to 249-

156

‘But i might wake her!’ Asiah replies to your sugges-
tion. Everyone stares at her, incredulous. “Very
well. Fm not one to spoil a ceremony.’ She goes
actoss to Carolina, gives her an affectionate peck,
then smooths the dead ruler’s hair from her brow,
‘Tt’s time to wake up, dear,’ she says. But for the
nervous shuffling of fect, the courtyard is silent.
Dunrazad turns to the guards and says quietly,
‘Arrest the presuniptuous dog.’ Before you can
defend yourself they are upon you, Turn to 355.
157-158

157

You steel yourself and leap through. You feel no
heat, and realize that the wall was merely an illu-
sion. You land in a cramped chamber, surprising
four silyer-skinned humanwids. They are Murkur-
ons, well armed and equipped for adventuring. As
you burst into the room, three of them are strug-
gline with a smalliron-bound door, while the fourth
is standing near by, If you attack immediately, tum
to 195. If you wail for them to react, turn to 253.

158
You glance through the books and scrolls, but the
rambling text means nothing to you. The vials look
more promising. Though many are cracked and
theircontents spilt, a few remain intact. Of these you
salvage the three which seem the least noxious, each
containing an unexciting, cloudy, brown liquid,
Each is labelled in the same crabbed handwriting.
You may nsk drinking one or more of the hquids
now, or you may take any or all of them with you. If
you decide ty take them with you, note down the
name of each potion you take on your Adventrre
Siwet, together with the parazraph number which
you should go to if you decide to drinkit. You may
drink one of these potions af any fime that you
would normally be able to drink a potion (that is, as
long as you are notin battle). Remember: note down
the number of the paragraph you are at bejore turn-
ing to the releyant paragraph for the potion you are
about to drink; you should also make a note of the
fact when you have drunk that potion. Each vial
159

contains only one mouthful — so, once you have
drunk a potion, it has all gone.

If you drink the potion

marked ‘Ghulsh’ Turn to 258
if you drink the potion

marked ‘Arahl’ Turn to 285
If you drink the potion

marked ‘Zazzaz’ Turn to 369

Once you have finished checking the potions, turn
to 270.

159

You kiss Carolina’s hand respectfully and join the
growing crowd lining the walls of the courtyard.
You wait for several hours as the well-wishers pay
their last respects. Finally servants come fonvard
and place the lid on the coffin. Madhacrios steps
forward nervously and addresses the crowd.
Solemnly, he reads the service for the burial of the
dead. After a few minutes’ silence, he speaks again,
reassuring the crowd of the safety of Kallamehr; he
talks of the execution of traitors, and the successes
of the army against Bei-Han. Finally he announces
that since Carolina left no legitimate heir, he will be
assuming the title of Baron himself. The ceremony
over, the nobles return once more to their quarters,
and the courtyard empties. Downcast by the
funeral, you contemplate your next course of action.
If you wish toa leave Kallamehr, tum to 183. If you
decide to stay and continue your investigations,
turn to 252.

160-162

160

The old crone lets outa grating scteech and drops to
her knees. "We arelost! We shall all die! Abandoned
by Our saviour!’ As you tum to leave, the villagers
close in around you, pleading desperately. When
you brush them aside, their pleas tim to threats.
Several are carrying rusty farm tools and begin to
menace you with them. If you wish to attack the
villagers, turn to agt. If you surrender t) their
wishes, turn to 208.

th

As you draw your sword, Bythos roars, ‘Treachery!’
and draws in a deep breath. You leap to strike him,
hoping that his huge size will give vou a chance bo
strike first. But hick is not with you. He breathes a
freezing blast at you, and crystals form with start-
ling speed on your skin. As Bythos continues to
breathe at you the crystals spread, and soon you are
encased, a living statue, doomed to live out the rest
of your life as a morbid omament for the Master of
the Abyss-

162
You cross to the barred trapdaor. It has a lock on it
but, when you grasp the bars, you find it has been
left unlocked. You lift it easily with both hands and
reach through to see whether you can grasp the
man’s hand. Unfortunately he is too far away, so
you call to him to edge closer. From his muscular
build. you guess that this is Ramedes the Invin-
able, Lady Carolina‘s champion. He starts to make
163

painful progress towards you, one hand at a time.
Then you are aware of somebody behind you —
just as they kick you violently in ‘the back, send-
ing you headlong i into the gurgling darkness. Turn

lO 175.

163
rhe rest of the night passes uneventfully, and with
the moming you resume your journey. The leagues
stretch on, and you see a range of mountains in the
distance ahead of you. You pass through several
villages, and are surprised at the surly reactions of
the villagers, As you pass them you hear them
muttering under their breath, and when you stop to
refill your water-bottle, they do their best to ignore
you. The sun is low in the sky when you enter the
small town of Hasrah, in which lies the Temple of
Fourga. You could travel a few more hours if you
wished, but you would haveto spend another night
in the open, Tick off a time box. If you ride on, tum
to 26. lf you seek hospitality at the Temple of
Fourga, turn to q.

164-165

164

You walk across the crystal wastes until you come
upon a huge metal ring embedded in the ground.
From it, a chain with links as thick as your body rises
into the air, up into the clouds from which a desolate
moaning is coming. It would be difficult, but you
could climb the chain {turn to 294). Alternatively,
you could investigate the creaking sound, which is
sill famtly audible (furn to 237).

165

You return to your quarters and spend the rest of
the night on your uncomfortable straw pallet. Next
morning, a palace guardsman bursts into your quar-
ters and demands that you follow him. Heleads you
to the antechamber and ushers you in. No sooner
have you walked past him than the pommel of his
sword descends on the back of your head, and you
crumple to the ground. Turn to 355.
166

166
You search the bodies of the Ogre and the Goblin,
but they possess nothing but a few revolting
morsels of meat. You carry on down the path some
distance, noticing the huge dumps of foxgloves
which grow on your right. Aftera while you come
acrossa path which turns off to the right. If you have
three numbers written down on your Adzemiure
Sheet, turn to the paragraph they indicate. Other-
wise, if you go dawn the path to the right, write the
number ‘3’ after any other numbers on your Adre:-
hive Sheet and tum to 268. If you carry straight on,
write the number 1° after any other numbers on
your Adventure Sheet and tum to 17. If you already
have one of these numbers written down, you
should choose the other optiun.

167-169

167
You cast about the smoke-filled room for an alterna-
tive escape route. Tes! your Luck. lf you are Lucky,
turn to 392. If you are Unlucky, turn fo 323.

168
As one, the Crystal Warriors close in and raise their
hammers . . . weaponless, you resign yourself to
your fate. Your adyenture ends here.

169

As Luthaur’s body topples off the platform, you
sheathe your sword and turn to the four nobles,
now flanked by guards. ‘I act not as a traitor,’ you
say, ‘Dut as 2 loyal servant of the House of Rangor.’
You explain that someone has deliberately tried to
prevent you from passing on the new's of the im-
pending invasion ~- someone who must be in league
with the invaders! If you wish to accuse one of the
nobles of treachery, turn to 334. H you have the
Sealed Locket and wish to explain how you came by
it, turn to 320.
170-172

179
You draw some water from the village well and use
it to clean the sticky mire off Mema- Make a note of
this. Tick off a time box, then turn to 396.

174
The black cloud is advancing on you with ternfying
speed. You fumble with your tinderbox, cursing
your clumsy fingers. Test your Luck. If you are
I ucky, turn to 217. If you are Unlucky, turn to 284.

172
The creature tries to slitheraway between your legs,
but you grasp if and force it down by sitting on its
back. Although it is slippery, and you are blinded,
you manage to get a firm grip around its neck. You
are about to bang its head on the floor when it
begins to sob. You pause a moment while your
vision clears, revealing the pathetic figure of a
young girl, coated from head to foot in foul-smelling
green slime. Cautiously you release your grasp and
pick up the slender blaw-pipe she used to puff the
blinding dust at you. Pocketing it, you ask the girl
her name. Turn to 315.

173-174

173
You take a step towards the silver creature, and he
shakes his head sadly. Flame gouts from his out-
stretched arms, and you are engulfed in fire. These
flames, however, are real _ . -

174

You are blinded by the sunlight which streams in
through the window. The bustle of the market
below filters into the room. You are bathed in sweat
and trembling uncontrollably, the ghastly image
still lingering in your mind. Was it a premonition,
or just your fear ruling your imagination? Your
thoughts are interrupted by a call from Bedrah, one
of your fellow adventurers. Buckling on your
sword, you follow her to Lady Carolina’s audience-
chamber to decide which of you will be the volun-
teers. Although you had intended to stay and
defend the city, you may still volunteer if you wish
to change your mind. Will you:

Ride north for the army?
Scout to the east?
Stay behind after all?

Turn to g2
Tur to 104
Turn to 182
175-176

175

You land painfully on the soft floor of the pit. To one
side you can make outa single luminous eye regard-
ine you from amid a bulky, shifting mass of mottled
grey flesh. Beneath the eye is a gaping black maw,
from which come ghastly sucking noises. It is a
Quagrant, a horror bred by only the most loathsome
and warped sorcerers. You have only a moment in
which to act. Will you:

Use a blow-pipe, if you have
one which has not been used? Tum to 378

Use the Spitting Fly, if you

know it? Turn to 328
Fight the horror with your

sword? Turn to 314
Flee up the rough walls of

the pit? ‘Turn to 18

176
You eventually find a small furry creature hiding
beneath a rotting log. While it is still startled, you
whisk it into your backpack and hurry back to the
hut, which you find with surprising ease. Back
mside, the woman greets you quite pleasantly, in-
troduces her serpent Caduceus to you, and tells
177-178

you that her name is Aletheia. Caduceus swallows
your gilt whole and wraps himself affectionately
tound your shoulders, while Aletheia tells you a
little about him. Turn to 307-
177

Crass 1 set of Provisions and 4 Gold Pieces off your
Adventiire Sheet. Tasbadh greedily guips down the
food you sive him and pockets the coins. With =
loud belch, he says, ‘Right, let’s get our heads down
for the night.’ and commandeers your blanket
which you had draped over the horse behind you-
‘Better make a fire to keep the beasts away!’ he says,
settling himself down in your warm blanket. You
spend a cold night, tending the fire and listening to
Tasbadh’s mighty snoring. The next morning, Tas-
badh seems a little better, but urgently he reminds
you of the Death Spell which is squeezing the life
from him. Soon you are on your way to Gebaan. No
sooner have you ridden into the village than Tas-
badh springs off your steed and hummes away into a
large building. You notice a lurid sign outside: “The
Purple Poignard’, Surely the Healer doesn't live ina
tavern? Tick off 2 time box. If you have the Golden
Fist, turn ta 121. Tf not, turn to 109.

178
Your opponent scems to anticipate your move, and
dodges back behind you. The blade of his knife
pricks your jugular. Across the way a group of
townsfolk are staring at you expectantly. Tum
to 200.

179-182

+79

You race down to the chariot, brandishing your
sword wildly. The Crystal Sprite spots you and
flees. Leaping on to the chariot, you grab the reins
and yell at the Ectovults to move. They ignore you.
All your efforts to get the chariot moving are in vain.
You are stranded, alone in the crystal wastes. Your
adventure ends here.

180
the Troll soon disappears off into the undergrowth,
sill dragging the sapling behind it. Yousplash your
face with the river water and prepare to carry on,
refreshed by your rest. Turn to 381.

181

You are still locked in battle with the Caveman as
the first hornets swarm into the cave. You launch a
Kick at the primitive creature, then dive for the
Theera torch. You are too late. The torch has gone
out, and the Caveman is too stupid to recognize the
threat of the hornets. His bone crashes on your
head.

182
Tow much for that one?’ says the greasy-haired
peasant, pomting at a rust-coated sword on a mar-
ket stall. ‘Wot, this?’ replies the stallhalder, pulling
it from a jumbled pile. ‘More ‘n you can afford,
matey. This "un’s not for sticking your pigs with.
Fangthane steel, this. Pulled it from the ruins of
Kallamehr meself, I did, a few years back, Last a
183-185

Tum of Turns, it will, whichis more’n could be said
for its last owner. Wot a mess they was!’ Many years
have passed since the fall of Kallamehr. You shared
the fate which overwhelmed it. Your remains lie
unmoumed among the rubble and debns.

183
You waste no time in retrieving your horse and
setting out from the city. You ride east along the
same route you used those few fateful days earlier.
Tick off a time box, Ifyou have heard of Enthymesis
and wish tu search for him, turn to 5. Otherwise,
turn to 325.

184
Your blows are useless against the blubbery, ten-
tacled thing. It closes its grip on you, and you are
engulfed by the writhing mass — to be slowly
digested by the creature.

185
The guards chuckle with glee and pocket the
money. One of them leads you through the gates
and into a small antechamber. ‘T’ll fetch someone
who can help,’ he says and slips out of the room.
You wait for a while. Tur fo 320.

186-188

186
You hurriedly wind back the string of the bow and
snap in a bolt. You must shoot the jailer before he
sees what you are up to. Roll two dice. lfthe result is
less than your SKILL, turn to 227, If the result is
greater thar or aqual fo your SKILL, turn to 240.

187
You step over the slimy green corpses and take the
opportunity to examine the objects you have picked
up: 2 set of priceless gems, shaped like eyes, anda,
jewelled tiara. To your experienced gaze they look
magical, so you stow them in your pack and make
your way along the passage. Soon it leads into a
round chamber. Turn to 82.

188

You take the black-clad figure by surprise, and it
splutters as vou catch it full on the chest. You must
fight the Winged Assassin for three rounds, Re-
member, YOu May not score a killing blow on it; you
are weak from lack of rest, so reduce your SKILL by 2
points.

WINGED ASSASSIN skKILL5 STAMINA 10

If you are still alive at the end of three rounds, turn
to 79.
189

18

The missile speeds rate at you, but too low, and
passes harmlessly between your legs. There is a
strangied yelp from behind you, and you turn to see
a Goblin with sword raised, staring in surprise at the
bolt, which is protruding from his belly. ‘Nice
shooting, Gok. Next time / use the crossbow,’ he
croaks, and topples backwards. The Goblin who
fired the crossbow flings it guiltily aside and drawsa
small knife from his belt. He charges towards you
with a curse, and you prepare for battle. But after
three steps he is whipped off his feet and yanked
violently upwards by a noose-trap. ‘Got im!’ saysa
voice near by, and yet another Goblin comes into
view, holding the other end of the rape. When he
sees you, his jaw drops and he lets go of the rope,
dropping his accomplice in a heap and fleeing. Yoru
chuckle to yourself and advance up the path, mar-
velling at the Goblins’ incompetence, A little further
on, you hear more Goblin voices ahead. *Don’t
worry Gublb, [il pulp ‘im- says a squeaky voice.
You saunter confidently round a bend in the path,
only to find yourself facing an enormous Ogre, his
tiny Goblin-sized head glaring furiously at you.
Behind him cowers the Gablin you encountered
earlicr.

SKILL STAMINA
OGRE TO 12
GOBLIN 5 4

Fight them one ata time, the Ogre first. Ifyou defeat
them both, turn to 166.
190-191

190
Your sword flashes towards the Gatherer and im-
pales him through the chest. He leans forward and
trasps ils pommel, then pulls it from him with a
grating noise, as of metal on bone. Then he raises it
and charges at you. The last thing you see are the
skeletal features beneath his cowl.

igi
The villagers are not trained warriors, and two fall
straight away to your assault, Behind them, three
more block your path with their sickles.

SKILL STAMINA
First VILLAGER 4 3
Second VILLAGER 3 3

Tight the first two villagers simultancously. Each
will have a separate attack on you during each
Attack Round, but you must choose at the begin-
ning of each Attack Round which of the two you will

192-193

fight. Attack your chosen target as in a normal
battle. Against the other, throw for your Attack
Strength in the normal way, but you will not wound
him if your Attack Strength is greater; you will have
merely parried his blow. If his Attack Strength is
greater, he will have wounded you in the normal
way- If you defeat the first hwo villagers, a third still
bars your way to your horse.

Third VILLAGER SKILL 3 STAMINA 3

If you win, tum to 347-

192

As your horse falls forward, you leap from the
saddle, but your foot tangles in the stirrup and you
are dashed to the ground. Lose 2 STAMINA points.
You stagger to your feet and are dismayed to find
that the proud mare you chose is now lamed. You
cannot continue your joumey on her, but must
search fora village to get a new horse. Tum to 155-

193
A silvery shape shoots past your head and crashes
into the ground, shattering into a million milky
droplets. These re-form into a grotesque winged
reptile, its limbless translucent body pulsing with
unnatural energy. A vicious beak protrudes from its
bulbous head. and milky eyes full of malice peer
balefully around. The Ectovult founders about until
it bumps into a silver chalice, which it greedily con-
sumes. The winged horror then flies off with the
chalice still visible, quivering inside ils body. If you
194-195

have a crossbow and wish to shoot the Ectovult,
turn to 272. Otherwise, turn fo 322.

194

While you are writhing from the effects of the dust,
you hear the door of the house slam, and ninning
footsteps fading away. When your vision finally
returns, you see the empty cupboard in frontof you,
sticky green footmarks leading out of it. lf you have
not yet searched the desk in the comer and svish to
do so, tum to 158. Othermvise you may follow the
footsteps, (turn to 206).

295

You cut down the first Murkuron on the spot, and
prepare to battle the remaining three. They look
round fearfully, but remain braced against the door-
Too late, you realize they were trying to hold the
door shut rather than open it. Seconds later, the
door gives way and squat, scaly creatures flood in.
The Kokomokoa swarm all over the Murkurons,
and four charge at you.

SKILL STAMINA

Nirst KOKOMOKOA 6 5
Second KOKOMOKOA 5 5
Third KOKOMOKOA 5 6
FourthKOKOMOKOA 5 5

You must fight the Kokomokoa one at a time. Re-
member: if you do not have your sword, your
Attack is at —2, and you may not scare hilfing blows.
If you defeat them, turn to 37°.

196-198

196
Your sword is too small to use against Bythos, so
you may not strike falling bles. If you have Barolo’s
buckler it too is useless, so you will lose its SKILL
bonus.

BYTHOS SKILL 10
Ef you detcat Bythos, turn to 291,

STAMINA 10

197
You point Mema’s slender tube up at the jailer and
blow hard. A cloud of black powder shoots into the
air, and then descends on you. Soun you are
coughing and choking, and the laughter of the jailer
from up above does little to ease your discomfort.
Turn to 352-

198

You explain to the guard that you couldn't sleep,
and that you fancied some fresh air and the view
from the battlements. He eyes vou suspiciously and
tells you that only palace guardsmen are allowed on
to the battlements. You apologize profusely and
return to the courtyard, knowing that he is watch-
ing you all the way. Turn to 165.
199-202

19

The chyod of black eae swirls round you, and
you curse as the breeze picks up, dissipating the
Jheera smoke. The homets are closing in on you, If
you flee back up the hillside, turn to 386. If you
make for the river which runs along the valley to
your right, turn to 42. If you make for the cave
entrance rou passed, tuum to 106.

200

You cry out in alarm, but the townsfolk just point at
you and laugh. ‘So that's the way a hero gets lo be
famous nowadays, is it?’ asks the gruff yoice, and
you suddenly recognize it as that of Barolo, your old
blade-master. Efe spins you raund and packets his
knife. You notice that he now hasa wooden left leg,
buthe makes no mention ofit. ‘You'd bestcome and
stay with me,” he suggests. Turn to 375-

201
One of the Crystal Warriors strides in your direction
and swings its hammer. You try to defend yourself
with your ssvord, but it glances harmlessly off the
warrior. If you havean onyx sceptre ora palden fist;
and wish te use it as a makeshift club, turn to 62. Lf
you wish to erapple the warmior, turn to 305.

262
You shin up the nearest leg until you find yourself
clinging close to the bottom of the hut. Looking
along the base, you can make out an opening sctin
the middle. The only way to reach it is to grab the
203-204

supporting beams and swing your way into it, legs
first. You look down at the ground, which seems
even further away than you had imagined. Roll hvo
dice, Tf the result is less tan your SKILL, furn to 337-
If the result is greater then or equal to your SKILL, tum
to 229,

203

Before long, you chance upon a host of crystal
statues, their serned ranks stretching away into the
mist. Looking closer, you see that each is a human
entombed within a crystal shell. If you bear the
wound which changes colour, turn to 52. Other
wise, tum to 75.

204

Suddenly you hear the sound of grating metal near
by. Behind you is a small metal door which leads
into one of the outbuildings of the palace. A key
is turning in the lock. You flatten yourself against
the wall by the side of the door. It is flung
outward, nearly crushing you, From your hiding-
place behind the door you hear several voices. You
recognize one as that of Luthaur, the traitorous
adventurer who embarrassed you in front of
Dunyazad. ‘Put up quite a struggle, eh, lads?’ he
says. ‘Yes, Luthaur, they don’t call him Ramedes
the Invincible for nothing — even with enough brew
inside him to drop a dragon, he fought ike a dozen
men.’ ‘Don'tworry, the other one'll be a lot easier

205-206

Do they mean you? The voices reach the other end
of the courtyard and you hear a door slam. For
some reason, they've left this door open. If you
creep cautiously down the passage the men came
out of, turn to 363. If you slip back to your pallet in
the servants’ quarters, turn to 165. If you wish to
spend the rest of the night hidden in the stables,
turn £0 137.

205

You feel a tremendous pressure as your body
crumples, The palace fades from view and you lose
consciousness. You awaken in arice paddy. Thereis
nobody about, so you wade to the nearest path and
make your way alongit. Itleads toa village, but this
village, like the others you came across earlier in
your wanderings, is deserted. You hurry on
through Kallamehr, passing thraugh more deserted
settlements. When you arrive at Kallamehr, you
realize the extent of your failure. You have defeated
Bythos, but Kallamehr has lost almost all of its
people. You may have saved your own skin, but at

the cost of thousands ofinnocent people. You are no
hero.

206
Outside the building, the sticky patches lead along
the main street towards the far; gate. You fetch your
horse and mount up. Unfortunately the trail gets
fainter and fainter as it goes on and, by the time you
reach the gate, the footsteps are barely visible in the
dust. You realize that your quarry has eluded you-
207-209

Disappointed, you continue your journey. Tum
to 22,

207
You wrest the sapling from the Trolls dead fingers,
and start tearing off the leaves and stuffing them in
your backpack. Once you have stipped the tree,
you head back to the river, finding yourself on a trail
which mins along the bank. Turn to 133.

208

A ragged cheer goes up from the villagers as you
give your assent. You are led back to the hut, and
more food is brought. The old woman advises you
to prepare for the test which awaits you, but she
scems unable to explain its nature. The more she
speaks to you, the madder she seems, and you
begin to doubt her prophecy- But who are you to
complain? You settle back {o rest, staring up
through the smoke-hole at the bright moon. Turn
to 319,

Tow many of the following items do you possess:
eye-shaped yems, jewelled tiara, gem-encrusted
breastplate, feather boots, golden fist, pearlinlaid
skull, onyx sceptre, crystal globe? If you have fewer
than four, turn to 351. If you have four or more, turn

£0 393.

210-212

210
The guards are taken aback when they find them-
selves staring at the blade of your sword. They look
at each other briefly, then one shouts, ‘Get ‘im!’ If
you have Sige’s pomander and are still wearing it,
turn to 83. Otherwise, turn to 242-

211
As you watch, the ant-covered hand grabs a stick
which was lying near by. It then withdraws hack
into the hole, and you hear scraping noises coming
from within. You are not entirely sure what is going,
on within the mound, but you are glad that you
didn’t getinvolved. Turn to 58.

212
You walk slowly up to the chariot and climb in,
while the Crystal Sprite bows reverently. Then he
lets outa high-pitched yell, and the Ectovults lurch
off. Soon you are skimming across the plain at
breathtaking speed. A few minutes later, the spires
of a fantastic crystal palace rise up before you,
circled by hundreds of screeching Ectovults. You
can fully grasp the size of the palace only when you
near its enormous entrance. The building is many
hundreds of yards high and is, formed, it seems,
from the same crystal you have been travelling on.
You enter a mighty chamber, and the chariot staps.
You climb out just as another robed figure rushes
up. “You're late!’ he hisses. ‘Our Master returns and
his broth is not yet prepared! If you fail, you will
suffer his crystal breath. Hurry!’ You follow him
213-214

across the chamber into another of similar size, in
which a weird cauldron sits, Approaching, you re-
alize thal il isa goblet over three feet high, fashioned
for some mighty hand. Another cowled figure sits
stirring the brew within, waiting for you to empty
your sack. You pour the contents into the cauldron
and watch it darken to a murky green. The Gyo
cowled figures depart silently, leaving you alone
with the goblet. If you drink some of the broth, tum
to 45. lf you add something to it, turn to 132. If you
knock it over, turn to 365-

213
Pressing straight on, you find the undergrowth
creeping on to the path ahead of you. Soon it
becomes difficult to push your way through it. You
laboriously hack your way through (lose 1 point of
STAMINA), finally reaching a clearing from which
three other paths lead- If you take the path on the
left, turn to 123. If you take the centre path, turn to
132. If you take the path on the night, turn to 32.

214
There are three dark shapes. As they creep into the
firclight you see that they are Black Elves. Two of
them begin to go through your baggage, while the
third approaches you wanly. Choosing your mo-
ment with care, you wait until the Elf is bending
over you before acting. Your sword sweeps in a
wide arc, coming to a juddering halt in his side. He
crumples and you leap to your feet, jerking your
sword from the lifeless body. The other two Elves

215

tum with a yelp, dropping your possessions. ‘Turn
to-120.

215
The roaring gets louder, and vou can see nothing in
the blackness ahead. Then you are dashed against
something hard and metallic. The river plunges
down through a grating, but you are safe. Casting
around, you find that the grating is littered with
objects. You grab a few, then feel your way across
the grating, showered by spray as you go. The
grating leads to a tunnel set in the rock, a tunnel
dimly lit by luminescent algae. Down the slimy
tunnel are creeping two reptilian Kokomokoa, squat
green creatures with abnormally large heads and
malicious yellow eyes. They drop the baskets they
were Carrying and attack.

SKILL STAMINA
First KOKOMOKOA 5 A
Second KOKOMOKOA 5 5

If you do not have your sword, you fight at —2, and
may not strike killing blows. lf you defeat them, turn
to 187-

SS

216

216
Many years ago, Barolo was your tutor in the
treacherous north lands. He gave you your fine
sword when he felt that you had learned enough
from him to deserve it. He welcomes you warmly to
his house and apologizes for its dilapidated condi-
ton. While you sit recounting some of your past
adventures, he takes your sword and cradles it
lovingly in his hand, testing its weight and balance.
Your story is interrupted bya faint scrabbling from
the comer of the room. You are about to get up to
investigate, but Barolo acts faster. Before you can
turn your head, he twists in his chair and the sword
flies from his hands. You go to retrieve it and find it
has impaled the siill-twitching body of a rat. Barolo
chuckles. “The one technique [never taught you,’ he
says. Tt is not wise for a master to teach his pupil
everything until he knows he can truly trust him or

her.” Barola tells you that he is now prepared to
hand his last secret on to you if you wish, but you
will need to sacrifice the rest of the night's sleep to
learn it. If you wish to learn how to throw your

sword, turn to 226. If you would rather get some
rest, furn to 375

217-218

217

A spark leaps from your tinder and lodgesin the dry
cloth, You cup your hand round it and blow franti-
cally. The spark takes, and the Jheera starts to
smoulder. Looking up, you see the pulsing black-
ness nearly upon you. Turn to 199.

218

You lower yourself slowly down the wall until you
are level with the window. Then you crane your
head round to peer through it. Inside, Dunyazad of
Ikhtiyan sits on the floor, carefully packing clothing
and jewellery into a small iron-bound trunk.
Obviously she is preparing for an urgent journey
.. .orescape. You heave yourself back up on to the
roof, If this was the third window you looked in,
turn to 25. Otherwise, you may refurn to your
quarters {turn to 151), or investigate any of the
following if you have not done so already:

The far left wall Tum te 397
‘The left centre wall Turn io 94
The far right wall Tum to 349

219-221

219

You pass through a band of cloud into the starry
void you fell through earlier. Above you, a wall of
cells hangs impossibly. The mvans of the prisoners
spur you on but, when you reach the top of the
chain, you realize just how hopeless their plight is.
There are no doors into their cells, only thick iron
bars. You have found the stolen spirits of Kal-
famehr’s countryfolk, victims of Bythos’s hornets.
Their earthly bodies exist only as zombie-like shells.
Frustrated, you climb back down the chain and sect
out in search of a means of freeing them. If you
follow the creaking sound, turn to 237. Otherwise,
furn to 203-

220
You pretend to surrender, then make a running
jump at the weakest-lovking priest. As you near
him you launch yourself into the air. Unfortunately
he raises his staff, catching you a stinging blow on
your side. Deduct 2 points of STAMINA. You crash
to the ground and are quickly subdued. The priests
begin to search you. lf you have the Golden Fist,
turn to 73- If you do not have the Golden Fist, turn
to 379.

221
The way ahead begins to slope downwards, and the
forest floor beneath your feet starts to soften. Soon
you are squelching through boggy ground, with
mud sucking at your shins. Flies begin to home in
on you, and the heat saps your strength. Lose 1
222-223

point of STAMINA. After an hour's painful pro-
gress, the ground begins fo rise and the track you
are on turns sharply to the left. There is nothing to
distinguish this part of the forest from any of the
others you have been through, so you push on.
Tick off a time box and turn to 366.

222
The corpse tumbles backwards into the wine, which
laps over it, You pause a moment, but there is no
motion. If you examine the body, turn to 142.
If you wish to leave the cellar straight away, tum

to 297.

223
You gallop back the way you came, pausing from
time to time to refill your water-bottle. As you spur
your mare Over a grassy risc, vou suddenly find
yourself strugeline with the reims when she rears
up. Something has disturbed her, something which
lies ahead, You can see nothing, but you catch the
faintest trace af a sour, musty smell. After some
coaxing, your harse continues reluctantly down
into the valley and along the narrow track which
winds its way up the hillside opposite. You have to
pick your way carefully up the steep path, but
finally you top the ridge and look down into the
valley. Off to your left you can see a column of
smoke rising. Check the time boxes on vour Adven-
tive Siwet, if you have already marked ten or more
time boxes, turn to 251. Otherwise, tick off a time
box and turn to 95,

224

224

As he approaches the keep, Ramedes lets out a
blood-curdling roar. He flings the door open and
smashes a guard aside with the flaming brand. Then
he is inside the keep. You run across the courtyard
as Screams and yells begin to fill the air. When you
reach the gate, you are nearly floored by the bady af
@ guard which comes tumbling out. Inside, in a
small entry-hall, Ramedes is battling six guards,
though more lie bloodied and motionless around
the chamber, He is swinging a halberd as ifit were a
sickle, but these guards are wiser, waiting for the
hero to tire before they strike. One is winding a
crossbow and, as you enter the hall, sword at the
ready, helets fly the bolt. Ramedes takes it full in the
chest and staggers backwards. He crashes to the
ground and looks up at you accusingly. He has no
hme to speak, for the guards are upon him with
their swords. Then they turn on you. Your adven-
ture ends here,

225-226

225

Bythos strides impatiently towards the goblet. “You
were nearly late, Gatherer. You know the penalty
for failure!" he says. If you have been told the ‘secret
of Bythos’s power’, turn to 374. Otherwise, if you
have eaten the herbs from Sige’s pomander, tum to
31. Hf you wish to flee, turn to 335. You may hold up
the Golden Fist, if you have it {turn to 389). Or vou
may attack him with your sword (furn to 161).

226

The technique that Barolo calls the Spitting Fly is to
be used against an opponent only in direst need. By
usingit, you disarm yoursell, so you must be certam
that your blow will be a fatal one. It may not be used
in the midst of battle, for you must relax your body
completely. You spend the rest of the night practis-
ing and, although you can never hope to match the
speed and accuracy of Barolo, you become quite
adept at hitting the targets Barolo sels up for you.
Next morning you greet the dawn bleary-eyed and
stiff of limb, Turn te 19.

227-229

227

You loose your bolt at the jeering jailer, praying that
it will pass between the bars of the grille. Sure
cnough, it finds its mark, impaling the evil man in
mid-cackle. He slumps on to the grille, the trapdoor
keys dangling fom his twitching hands. You
scramble up the rough walls of the pit, observing as
you do that Ramedes has swung over to below the
jailer's body, reached through the grille and
grasped the keys. Soon you are both out of the pit,
recovering from your ordeal. Turn to 10.

228

You are standing amid the glowing golden powder
when a tall, cowled figure steps over the rim of the
bowl. He stops his chanting when he sees you and
stoops to pick up a small shard of crystal with a
skeletal hand. He takes each end and pulls it out
until he holds a ragged crystal javelin, which he
then hurls at you. Instinctively, you raise your
sword to parry. Roll two dice, If the resultis less tar
your SKILL, turn to 360. If itis greater than or enual to
yOur SKILL, turn to 274.

229

You are no threat to the legendary acrobats of
Granat. Your grab for the opening falls pitifully
short, and you plunge headlong to the ground,
landing painfully on your shoulder. Lose 1 point of
STAMINA. As you lie panting, you notice the hutis
descending towards you. The spindly legs are bend-
img! Soon you are through the opening. Tum to 372.
230-232

You hurry down the tunnel, back towards the river,
constantly looking over your shoulder. Then you
stumble over something, Looking down, you see a
tentacle. Turn to 343-

231
As you push onward, you notice dusters of foul
smelling fungus growing on either side of the path.
You have to pick your way carefully along the path
to avoid disturbing them —in case they carry poison-
ous spores. You begin to remember tales told of
southern forests in which you can lose yourself ina
maze of shifting trackways, wandering in arcles
until death from hunger and exhaustion catches up
with you. Ahead of you, the trail divides into two-
You may take the trail which slopes downwards
slightly and to the left (turn to 213), or try the other,
which leads off to the right (turn to 32).

ao
You twist to the left, avoiding the blow, but roll into
your fire. Although it was beginning to die out, you
are still badly burned. Lose 2 points of STAMINA.
You beat the burning embers off your singed tunic
and face your opponent, weaponless. He is a Black
Elf, and behind him are two more of his kin. As you

233-774

have no weapon, you must fight al —2 to your
SKILL, and you cannot score killny blows.

First BLACK ELF

SKILE 7 STAMINA 6

if you win, you may retrieve your sword before the
other two Elves are upon you. Turn to 120,

233

You dive into the river but, weighed down as you
are by your equipment, it is all you can do to resist
the strong current which threatens to sweep you
down-river. Soon the Troll spots you and begins to
throw rocks at you. Struggling helplessly amid the
wild water, you are a sitting target. A large rock
stikes you on the head and you are carried away by
the current. Your sword is swept from your scab-
bard and is lost to the wild water as you sink into
unconsciousness. Lose 1 pointofsTAMINA. Tick off
2 Hime box and turn to 89.

234

As you make your way down to the courtyard you
hear a blood-curdling scream. Diving through the
door near by, you find yourself in the kitchen. A
figure, wreathed in flames, staggers about the room
#5 various servants vainly fling water at it. After a
few seconds the fiery figure collapses, The cook
turns to you. Tt’s Janas the page. He just ranin here
clutching his chest and flung himself on the fire,’
she says. The boy is dead, Though shacked and
mystified by the tragedy, you prepare to leave. You
can do nothing here. Turn to 140.
235

235

You dismount and face the multitude of blank-eyed
peasants as bravely as you can. Several of them set
down the palanquin they bear, and from it steps a
richly dressed man, his face deeply scared, his eyes
burning with malevolence. His silent horde makes
no move towards you, butthe man pestures them to
advance, his movements calm and deliberate. He
speaks: ‘You'll pay for the slaughter of my winged
servants. You'll pay with your life.’ Before you
stands the unsmiling general of this warped army.
Kallamehr’s fate lies in your hands. If you have the
Reavers bottle and wish to show it, turm to 55.
Othemvise, if you know the Spitting Fly and wish to
use it, turn to 260. Or you may attack him (turn
to 65).

236-238

236

The rope slips rapidly out through the smoke-hole
in the ceiling, just as the first villager bursts imto the
hut. They seem relieved to find you stillalive. As the
buzzing sound fades away, you race out of the hut.
Silhouctied against the moon is a huge marrow-
shaped object which hangs impossibly in the starry
sky. You watch as it dwindles inta the distance.
Then you turn io the villagers you have elected to
protect. hey huddle pathetically eraund you. You
have abandoned your true mission in fayour of this
lowly setdement. Kallamehr is doomed. Your ad-
venture ends here.

237

Cautiously you advance, observing more of the
darting shadows beneath the crystal floor. The
creaking gets louder, and suddenly a crack appears
almost beneath your feet, Then the crystal shatters
and a black shape erupts through it, spraying you
with oily black water. The black shape shoots up
into the clouds, and vou scrabble fora footing on the
shifting crystal. Roll two dice. If the result is ess than
yOUr SKILL, turn to 339. Lf the result is yrenier than or
equal te your SKILL, turn to 93.

233
You turn dejectedly back to your horse, but stagger
as you feel something coiling round your leg. Itisa
large snake; angrily, you raise your sword to cut il
down. Before you can stnke, the snake speaks
softly. ‘Don’t you recognize me? T am Caduceus.

239-240

Bythos has fled to the Abyss. You must follow him
there if you wish to save these people, for En-
thymesis has failed. The river in this valley flows
underground and passes through a cayern in which
there is a gateway to that region. Go now, lose no
time.” He slithers away and you hurry over to the
nver. Using 2 rotting log as a makeshift raft, you are
soon racing with the current. Turn to 89.

239

You wake up in a dank cell. Your whole body aches
from the beating the priests have given you (lose 2
points of STAMINA). You still have all your posses-
sions with you, except the Golden Fist (cross it off
your Adventure Skeet). After making vou wait for
several hours, a priest arrives at your cell. He tells
you reluctantly that you are to be freed, on the
orders of Lady Dunyazad. Soon you have your
horse back, and you are off once more. Tick off vo
lime boxes and turn to 7.

240
Your bolt rebounds from the metal gmille and, before
you can reload, the jailer has backed away from the
guile, abandoning you to your fate. Turn to 352.

241—242

241

You smash the javelin aside. The Gatherer reaches
dovmn for another piece of crystal, but you are toa
quick for him. You leap at him as he lifts his crystal
weapon.

GATHERER SKILL 6 STAMINA S
If you defeat him, turn to 318.
You must fight the guards-

SKILL STAMINA
First GUARD 7 5
Second GUARD § 7

You have to fight bath the guards together. At the
beginning of each Attack Round, you must decide
syhich of the two you are going to fight; resolve the
battle against him as normal. You should also roll
two dice to determine your Attack Strength agamst
the other guard, then two dice again for his Attack
Strength against you for that Attack Round. You
will not injure himif your Attack Strength is greater,
you will simply parry his blow. If his Attack
Strength is greater than yours, then he will wound
you in the normal way. If you defeat both the
guardsmen, turn to 150.

aa Aa =

243-245

Many hours go by while you scour the forest for
snake food. Tick off a time box, then return to 395

and try again. If you mun out of time or LUCK, your
adventure is over.

7

As you approach the row of puppets, your left foot
Squelches in something and skids. You have trod-
den in a sticky green footprint, one of a line which .
leads from the cupboard ta the table and back again.
The cupboard before you is crudely daubed with a
rune: the sign of a single arrow. If you open the
cupboard with your sword, ready to strike, turn to
76- If you open it normally, turn to 37.

245

4 tall cowled figure walks into the bowl, chanting all
the time, and reverently collects up the golden
powder into a silken sack. He is chanting ‘Broth for
my Master! Broth for Bythos! Magical broth makes
the Master of the Abyss! If you spring toattack him,
tur to 154. If you creep round the nm of the bow! to

Surprise him as he leaves, turn to go. Lf you follow
him as he leaves, turn to 112.
246-247

246

Your manveurre is successful. You grip his weapon
hand firmly and drive your free hand into his jaw,
throwing him off balance. With a neat flick of the
wrist, you force the knife from his grip, and send
him tumbling to the floor. As he does so, you
recognize the grizzled features of your old blade
master, Barolo. He has changed greatly in the past
years, and now sports a wooden leg; but he looks
pleased to see you. ‘Good as ever, eh, young “un?
Lucky 1 was going easy on you orld have had you
on 2 dinner plate by now.’ Turn to 216-

247

With a mighty kick of your legs you push yourself
down. Your Jungs are bursting as your hand alights
onthe hilt of the fabulous sword, and blood pounds
in your head_ The effort of freeing the sword proves
too much and your breath escapes in an explosion of
bubbles, Desperately you thrash your way up-
wards, only to be caught befiveen two of the lower
bars. As water enters your lungs you curse your
greed.

248-249

You evade the Troll, leaving him to fry to digest his
troublesome meal, and make your way back to the
myer. There you hurry along the path which leads
along the bank. Turn ta 133.

249

You dismount and approach the bundie cautiously.
As you draw closer. you realize that this is no
bundle, but s body! You tum over the carpse, to
reveal the familiar features of Sophia of Blacksand,
You draw back your hand rapidly when it begins to
sting painfully. A greyish slime seems to have eaten
mito Sophia’s lower body and legs. She must have
Seen the hero sent to scout out the invading army,
bul you cannot begin to guess at the fate which has
overcome her. You contemplate your choices of
action. If you continue with your mission to the
northern army, turn to 307. If you choose to take on
2ophia‘s mission and scout to the east, tickoffatime
box and turn to 329. If you return to Kallamehr ta
report, fick off a time box and turn to 394.
250-252

250
You watch as the former prisoners each take a sip of
the blue liquid. One by one they dissolve away ina
blue glow, until you are left with only the Servants
for company. You look down sadly at the empty
bowl, wondering how long it will be before the
Servants can fill it once more, You can only guess.
The Seryants explain that, as Ruler of the Abyss,
you gain the power of all the lost magical items of
Allansia which are drawn to this realm, but it is
small consolation for your exile here, IF you have the
wound which changes colour, turn to goo. If nat,
turn f3119-

251

After a brisk ride you reach the village and pull up
before the open gates. A line of villagers is silently
marching out through them and off down the road.
You hail them, but they do not even tum their
heads. Miystified, you edge closer. A well-dressed
tivure detaches itself from the villagers and saunters
towards you. The man is munching distractedly ata
rib of pork. Ele tosses the bone over his shoulder,
and turns his attention to you, fixing you with a
penetrating gaze. “Ah. itisyou," he says, apparently
satisfied. With a casual wave of his arm he gestures
at you. “Take this wretch,’ he says as he turns back
to the village. Tum to 213-

As you leave the courtyard, you remember that you
have seen no sign of the other heroes who were left
253

to defend the city, apart from Luthaur who was at
the funeral. Where have they gone? Making discreet
inquiries at the Parrot-in-e-Cage Inn, you discover
that they all met with unfortunate accidents. One
mysteriously vanished while walking the ramparts
at night; another accidentally shot himself with a
crossbow. Still another was found impaled on one
of the swords carried by the Statue of Jushce. There
are many ways to meet an untimely end in Kal
lamehr. Yours is particularly bizarre. You are walk-
ing down an empty street when —

253
None of the Murkurons has seen you enter the

raem. You realize that three of them are holding the
door shut, while the fourth isintoning a spell: a fery
wow is spreading from his fingers. Then he notices
you and pauses, his face struck by panic. “Ylech’nya
Pipphen!’ says a voice in your head. If you attack the
Murkuron, turn to 173- If you rin to the door, turn

to 48.

254-255

254

As you step between the narrow legs, you notice an
opening in the floor of the hut above you. You are
just wondering how on earth vou are going to make
itup there when the hut begins to lower, the spindly
legs bending. You position yourself directly under
the opening as the hut descends towards you. Turn
tp 372.

255
He is a sitting target. Convulsed with laughter, he
can do nothing to dodge the blade which flies from
your hands, It catches him in the belly, and he is still
laughing as he starts to topple . . . turn to 302.
256-259

256

The road is deeply rutted, as if it is often used, but
you meet no other travellers. On the slopes around
you the vegetation grows thicker, and soon you are
riding through woodland. Then, ahead of you on
the road, you see a charging ox. It thunders past,
dcllowing madly, A little further on, you see the cart
that it had been shackled to, ditched by the road-
side. Near by lies the still body of another ox; you
sense movement behind it, and hear revolting suck-
ing noises. You canter up cautiously, Suddenly
your horse whinnies, and a black-swathed figure
looks up. You cannot penetrate the darkness be-
neath its hood, but you feel a malevolent gaze
trained upon you. With an inhuman shriek, the
figure races off into the undergrowth with a loping
gait. If you give chase, turn to 296. If you examine
the ox and cart, turn to 13.

257
You race towards the Gatherer, but he hastily pre-
pares another javelin. Turn to 105.

258
The liquid tastes sour, but itis in facta Luck Potion.
You may restore your LUCK to its Initia! level, and
increase that Inti! level by 1 point. Now turn back
to the paragraph you just left.

259
You hurl your sword at the jeering jailer, praying
that it will pass between the bars of the grille. Sure
260

enough, it finds its mark, impaling the evil man in
 mid-cackle. He slumps on to the grille, the trapdoor
keys dangling from his twitching hands. You
scramble up the rough walls of the pit, observing as
you do that Ramedes has swung over to below the
jailer’s body, reached through the gnmile and
grasped the keys. Soon you are both out of the pit,
recovering from your ordeal. Turn to 40.

260

Your sword streaks towards your enemy, but he is
too fast for you. His own sword flashes from its
scabbard and deflects yours harmlessly into the
ground, “You are not the only one who knows that
trick," he says, hurling his blade at you. You have no
time to dodge; his sword impales you through the
chest.

261-263

261
You approach the well, but your way is barred by
several burly peasants, shouting: “You're not wel-
come here, horse-thief! They don’t look the sort to
listen to reason, so you spur your horse out of the
village. Turn to 7.

262
You grab your possessions and clamber out of the
window. Just as you are lowering yourself down,
the door collapses and a blast of flame guts the
bedroom. It is nota great drop to the ground, and
you land clumsily but unscathed. Turn to 111,

263
As you step into the sand you feel a tugging at your
feet. You wade further into it, and sink up to your
Knees. A few seconds later, you cannot move your
legs, and the sand is up to your waist. As your head
sinks lower you take a deep breath, hoping it is not
going to be your last. Turn to 383-

264—265

264

You unfold the scrap of paper. On it is written:
‘Beware —you are watched by a thousand eyes.” You
ponder what this strange message Can mean, but
are brought out of your reverie when you realize
that you are being addressed by Dunyazad of
Ikhtiyan. She seems insulted that you have failed to
hear her question, and scowls at you, At the same
time, the hairs on the nape of your neck prickle. You
feel certain that someone in the room is watching
you carefully —a lithe too carefully. The meal over,
you prepare to depart. Turn to 234.

265
Ants are still crasvling over your body, biling you
viciously. Lose 1 point ofsTamina. Youroll around
in the dirt and beat them off desperately. You tear
off your clothes and brush yourself with leaves,
then beat your clothes against a tree to rid them of
the pests, Turn to 58.

266-267

266
Bythos curses as you grab the chain, and launches a
punch. Ie catches you in the stomach, and you
gasp in pain as a chill blast is forced out of you.
you now let go of the chain and attack Bythos, turn
to 196. Lf you blow on him, turn to 380.

267

As darkness falls, you lie awake on your pallet,
trying to make some sense of the day’s events. As
you ponder, you feel the hairs on the back of your
neck mise. Straining your senses, you make out a
faint, familiar buzzing. Your enemy is within the
palace! You snatch up your sword and rush into the
courtyard. Looking across at the keep, you see a
black shadow rise from it and disappear into the
night sky. The keep is the dwelling-place of Kal-
lamehr's nobility: its central tower contains Lady
Carolina’s private suite and audience-chamber. The
winged creature flew not from the tower itself but
from one of the windows of the keep from which the
tower springs. Tick off a time box. If you go and
investigate the keep, turn to 342. If you return to
your pallet, furn to 165.

268-270

268

A little way down the path you enter a small glade.
In the centre you can see a slightly raised mound of
loose earth with a neat circular opening just above
ground level. From it protrudes a black human
hand, scrabbling in the loose soil as if trying to geta
grup. As you approach, you realize that the hand’s
colour is caused by a crawling layer of ants. If you
rush to the man’s aid and try to save him, tum to
300. If you would rather not take the risk, turn
to 211.

269

The Troll glances round as you approach, and you
see him look down at a crossbow bolt protruding
from his shoulder, then stare at the crossbow you
have slung from your belt. Trolls may be stupid, but
they never forget someone who has hurt them. He
leaps to his feetand charges at you, brandishing the
sapling like a club.

FROLL SKILLYy STAMINA F

If you defeat the Troll, turn to 207.

270

if you havea blow-pipe, turn to 2. Otherwise, if you
have not yet examined the puppets and cupboard
closely, you may do so (turn to 244}. Alternatively,
you may leave the building and make your way cut
of the settlement (turn fo 22).
271-274

271
You quickly nock a bolt and let it fly. It curves in
a lazy arc, seeming to lose all its power. It floats
gently to the ground, far short of its target. Tum
to 322,

272
You lie flat and hold your breath as the footsteps of
the guard-came closer. Then they pause. A voice
mings out; “All right, you. On your feet. Now.’
Reluctantly you clamber to your feet and turn to face
the guardsman who is covering you with a cross-
bow. He calls out, and soon you are circled by
guards who escort you along the walkway to the
guardhouse, where you are warned to stay in your
quarters. A guardsman is given instructions to
make sure you don’t try any more midnight
wandering. Turn to 165.

273
The trail ploughs straight through the trees, and
you traipse along it for an hour or so, with nothing
relicving the monotony. Tick off a time box and turn
to 366.

274
You ime your sword-sweep badly, and the javelin
thuds into your shoulder. Grabbing its shaft, you
watch in terror as your body starts to crystallize.
Your adventure ends here.

275-277

275
lf you have’drumk Bythos’s broth, turn to 280. If you
have the Golden Fist and wish to hold it up, turn to
aga. If you would rather attack Bythos with your
sword, turn to 78.

276

Next moming, you peer out at the servants scur-
Tring about the courtyard. They erect a kind of low
stage, wath a platform behind it. Saon a coffin is
brought out and laid with great care on the low stage
by a number of priests. You guess that the coffin is
Lady Carolina's, and that her body is being brought
out so that her subjects may pay their last respects.
Madhaerios, Dunyazad of Ikhtiyan, Asiah Albudur
and Sige the Silent all file out and fake their places
on the platform overlooking the catafalque. [hen
the suards open the gates and allow the citizens to
file reverently in. When the courtyard is full of
people, you leave your hiding-place and mingle
with them. Turn to 344.

277

You wade into the river and are quickly caught by
the current. When you reach the iron bars, you find
them sturdy and unmovable. Feeling down with
your feet, you find that they extend a good distance
beneath the surface of the river. If you swim hack to
the bank and investigate the tunnel, turn to 24. If
you try to swim under the grille, turn to 127,
|

3 |

WN
iN

' R ; \

278-279

278

You continue to toss and tum uncomfortably. De-
duct 2 points of STAMINA and tick off a time box.
While staring at the skylight in the ceiling you
suddenly become aware of a rich, acrid smell. You
wrinkle your nose, trying to trace its source, then
realize that the room is filling up with swirling
smoke. The door is outlmed with a red glaw, and
youcan feel the heat coming from it. A loud buzzing
noise from the window distracts you; looking aver
to it, you see a black+loaked figure which hovers
just ovfside. TF you rush straight over to attack the
figure with your fists, turn to 188. If you go to grab
your sword, turn to 361-

<-/

With consummate grace, Sige rises to her feet and
looks around her. She walks slowly oyer to the
coffin and stands before it. She lowers her head
towards Carolina, then stops and straightens up
again. She speaks, and though her voice sounds as
quiet as the breath of a breeze upon grass, you know
that it can be heard in every part of the courtyard.
‘Why must I bow before the orders of this lying
upstart? This is intolerable, an obscenity!’ She is
trembling with rage, but her features remain as
placid as ever.

ihen a brave soul from the crowd shouts out, ’Pay
your respects!’ and the crowd back him up with
shouts and calls. ‘Quiet!’ Sige silences the crowd
with one word. Then she bends over Carolina once
280

more. An instant later, she has grasped the jewelled
Sword of Office from the dead fingers which held it,
and swings it violently at you. You twist to deflect
the blow, but the flat of the blade catches you pain-
fully on the shoulder. Lose 2 points of sTAMINA.
Now you must battle Sige, the traitor of Kallamehr.

SIGE THE SILENT
If you defeat her, turn to 384.-

SKILL 7 STAMINA 5

The nauseous feeling you had when you drank
Bythos's brew returns even more strongly, You gag
involuntarily, then whine in pain as your body
Gyists and buckles. Your robe is split as you burst
outofit, rowing all the time, Bythos stands aghast,
watching your transformation. ‘No! Not you! There
can be only one Master! he howls. He draws in his
breath sharply, then lets out a freezing blast at you-
The crystals which form on your skin quickly meit
and drip from you, and you advance on him. He
dodyes to one side, then leaps for the wall. With a
blow from his fist, he smashes a jagged hole in it and
leaps through. If you leap through the hole after
him, turn to 299. If you leave the chamber through
the door you came in by, turn to 354.

281-282

284

The buzzing sound soon fades away, but you are
glad you chose to be careful. Pushing yg througha wall
of undergrowth you find yourself staring down into
a deep gorge. You search all round the edge of the
preapice, and scan the bottom of the gonge for signs
of your quarry, but you see nothing. Somehow he
has vanished into thin air. Tum to 139.

282
Aletheia is despondent, but you remember the [roll
you saw Carrying a sapling by the banks of the river.
Quickly, you describe the irce to her, and she
confirms that it is indeed the Jheera. “You must goat
once and rescue the leaves,’ she says. Toontral the
paths of the shifting forest—follow the trail and you
will reach the mver. When you have the leaves, the
path will lead you safely back to the glade where
you left your horse. Be sure you never retum to this
place — I will not be so welcoming a second time!’
You hurry from the hut and along the only path
_— Ol LL EEE

283-285

leading out of the clearing. Minutes later, you reach
the river at the spot where you saw the Troll. You
find his clumsy footprints in the soft mud and
follow them into the forest. A little way in, you come
upon him crouching by a large hole in the ground,
vainly trying to poke the sapling into il. if you shota
crossbow bolt atthe Troll when you saw him earlier,
turn to 269, If not, turn to 122.

283

Mema grips your mare’s mane firmly with both
hands. She lets out a whimper of terror, then points
into the black army. At first you cannotsee what she
is pointing at, then you notice a pulsing black mist
hanging in the air. If you have washed the green
slime off Mema, tim to 16, If not, turn to 69.

284
A spark leaps from your tinder and lodges in the dry
cloth. You cup your hand round it and blow franti-
cally, but succeed only in extinguishing it. In your
haste you have dropped your tinder-box, and you
look up to see the cloud of black hornets almost
upon you. Turn to 193.

285
The brownish liquid tastes sweet and not at all
unpleasant, Your stomach warms to it, and aller a
short while you notice a tingling sensation in your
feet. Tlowever, nothing else seems to happen, and
soon even the tingling fades away. Turn back to the
parayraph you just left,

286-287

286

A single blow is enough to unbalance the statue. It
totters, then tips over and shatters. Sige picks her-
self up from the ruined crystal and bows. ‘You have
my eternal gratitude,’ shesays, ‘andinrehurn I must
sive you something: the secret of Bythos’s power.
On this plane, magical items and charms are use-
less, but Fangthane steel bites true. Bythos has no
defence against such a blade, so don’t let him trick
you. I bid vou farewell.’ She hurries off mnto the
mist; you make to follow, but soon lose sight of her.
As you continue, you hear an ominous creaking
sound. Turn to 237.

287

You find the gomg is hard across country, and you
waste precious time trying to find the best way
round a wood before getting back on to a road. Tick
off two time boxes and turn to 7.

288-289

288
The mighty walls that seemed so secure when you
passed through the aty gates somehow loak less
sturdy from the inside. A frightened city is huddled
behind them, and looking out of the window you
sense the people’s fear. You turn and find yourself
gazing at your reflection in the ornate mirror oppo-
site. What have you let yourselfin for? You may bea
hero, but that doesn’t mean you don’t get scared.
You focus on your image in the mirror, catching a
fuzzy reflection of the darkening window. Sud-
denly you are in darkness, save for a dim reddish
glow. There is a scrabbling at the window, but you
are unable to tear youreyes from the mirror. A hide-
ously scarred and discoloured figure drags himself
through the opening. More twisted fingers and
hands claw the sill behind him as he lurches t>
wards you. You scream, and jerk your body round
to face the harror (turn to 174).-
4

The jailer ies dead at your feet, but you know that
you are too late to save his captive from a horrible
fate. You will have to find somewhere to spend the
rest of the night in safety. If you wish to hide in the
stables, turn to 137. If you go back to your pallet in
the servants’ quarters, turn to 165.
290-292

You pass through rich cultivated lands, the estates
of the wealthy nobles of Kallamehr, until you see
the welcoming sight of the Rangor Tower up ahead.
Tick off a time box and turn to 67.

291
As he topples to the ground, Bythos sneers: “You
may have defeated me, but the people of Kallamehr
will float in the void for ever!’ You return to the
palace, where the Servants proclaim you the new
Ruler of the Abyss, but your victory is an empty
one. You have failed Kallamehr-

292

You drop on your knees and spin round, reaching to
grab his weapon arm swith your left hand, and
pushing with your right. Roll two dice. ff the result
is Jess than your SKILL, turn to 246- If the result ts
greater than or equal {o your $KILL, turn to 178.

293-294

293

In the leather pouch is a large round lacket, intri-
cately crafted fom platinum and other rare metals.
ltis set with blue stones, arranged in what is unmis-
takably the Seal of the House of Rangor. The clasp is
carved in the shape of two interlocked silver dol-
phins; try as you may, you cannot prise them apart,
though vou feel that itis only magical power which
is keeping them together. Stowing the locket away
carefully, vou settle down for the night. The com-
motion in the courtyard has subsided. Tick off a
time box. Turn to 276.

294
You pull yourself up and on to the metal ring, then
begin your slow progress up the smooth metallic
chain. Roll one die. Lf you roll 1-4, turn to.124. Ifyou
roll 5 or 6, turn to 279.
295

295

‘That heady mash of herbs you carry does more than
you may think,’ says the woman. You will know of
its sleep- stealing properties, | warrant. But its
powers on this plane are as nothing compared to
those it holds in the Abyss. Eaten in that mystic
region it will protect you from the Master's crystal
breath. Eaten here, itsvill turn your stomach —that ts
all! You are very lucky ta have such a gift; the Paa,
Maet and Teth herbs are extremely tare.” As she
speaks, you feel a soft weight upon your shoulders.
You turn your head to find yourself staring into the
eyes of a serpent. You shudder and automatically
stab for it. But it is too fast for you. In an instant its
thick coils are wrapped around your neck. ‘Meet
Caduceus,” says the woman. Make a note of the
names of the herbs tn order on your Adzenture Sheet
and turn to 307.

206-297

296

Dismounting with a single bound, you crash off into
the greenery after the black-clad fiend. After a few
minutes you are forced to stop for a second to
clamber over a fallen log. As you do so, you hear the
crack of breaking undergrowth, followed by aloud
buzzing sound coming from ahead of you. If you
sprint towards the noise, hoping to catch up with its
source, furn to 373- If you move forward cautiously,
turn to 281.

297
You wade frantically towards the steps, snpped by
an irrational compulsion te leave this place, Your
fearis proved well founded when you glance back to
sec the man you thought you killed rising from the
wine and staggering towards you. You race up the
steps and slam the trapdoor, then roll the cask back
on top of it. As you leave the shop the pounding
Starts up again. Turn to 128.
298-300

298

You bow your head and raise your hands in mack
surrender. Then, in one fluid motion, you reach
back with your right hand to grasp the hilt of your
sword from its scabbard on your back. Before the
guard can even register surprise and louse offa bolt
from his crossbow, the sword flies from its scabbard
and straight into his midriff, He topples back sound-
lessly on to the walkway. You hurry up and retrieve
the sword. You may also take the guard's crossbow
if you wish, though it is rather cumbersome. Then
you push his body off the wall, down into the
courtyard. Turn to 71-

299
You are right behind Bythos as he flees across the
crystal wastes. He finally slides to a halt at a place
where a chain leads up into the clouds from a hoop
in the ground. He grabs it and starts to tug, but
before he can break the chain you are upon him.

BYTHOS SKILL LO STAMINA 10

You may not use your sword, so you may not strike
billing blows. If you have it, you may not use Barolo’s
buckler either, so you lose the sKILt bonus it nor-
mally gives you. If you defeat Bythos, turn to108.

300
As you grasp the poor fellow‘'s hand and start to
pull, the ants begin crawling from his hand on to
yours. By the time you have him pulled free of the
ant-hill, your arm is a mass of biting ants. But they
300

are driven from your mind by the sight of the man
you have rescued: he is covered from head to foot
with ants, and seems none the worse for it. He isa
Symbiote, a foul mutant who lives with the ants that
cover him in mutual co-operation. The ants which
are biting your arms are beginning to draw blood
(lose 1 point of sTAm1N 4), and you realize that they
are softening you up so that their host can overcome
you. You must kill him before you are eaten alive!

ANT SYMBLOTE SKILL 6

Every time the Symbiote wins an Attack Round
against you, more ants will crawl on to you and
begin biting. Make a note of how many Attack
Rounds the Symbiote wins. When he has won
three, there will be so many ants on you that you
will lose an additional 1 point of sTaMINA per
round, If you defeat the Symbiote, turn to 265-

STAMINA 10

301—302

301
The remainder of your journey passes uneventfully.
You arrive on the borders of Kallamehr and deliver
your sealed scroll to Commander Yunan. He seems
unwilling to divide his forces, but must abey the
Lady Carolina’s commands. Soon you are riding
south once more, this ime at the head of a column
of soldiers. Several days later, you breast a hill and
see the city of Kallamehr below. With the army
behind you, you ride down towards it. Turn to 182.

302

The Slave Master crashes to the ground, his body
shattering as if made of china. From the shards
emerges a wisp of black smoke, which grows and
twvists . . . into the shape of the man you just slew.
He smiles confidently and drifts towards you. His
arms encircle you and lift you off the ground. His
blurred, smoky features are close to your face, and
only his eyes retain their sharpness. ‘1 am Bythos,
Master of the Abyss,” he says defiantly. “Though
you have destroyed my earthly shell, yet I live on,
593

Kallamehr is still mine, taken from within. You will
not rob me of victory! I have the spirits of these
people in thrall. They will remain trapped in the
Abyss for eternity!’ His smoky form dissipates and
you fall to the ground. Around youstand the people
of Kallamehr, empty and unmoving, You can do
nothing for them. Turn to 238.

303
You fire once more at the beast. Again you are

rewarded by a cry of pain from below, but at the
same time the dangling man lets out a despairing
gasp as he loses his grip and plummets downwards.
There is a sickening sucking noise, followed by a
muffled shriek, and then the gurgling begins once
more. You have no time to contemplste the poor
man's fate, however. The light in the room flickers,
and you whirl round to see a spindly figure racing
‘outofthe chamber, a flaming torch in his hand. You
pursue him. The twisted jailer flees up the stairs,
but you catch him at the top. He turns to fight,
swinging the torch wildly.

. JAILER SKILL 5

Every time the jailer wins an Attack Round, roll one
die. If the result is 1-3, you simply lose the usual 2
points of Sramuna. [f the result is 4-6, however,
then your clothing catches alight, Because of this,
you will lose 1 additional point of sTAMINA during
each following Attack Round (whether the jailer hits
you or not), until you kill the jailer and can put out
the flames. If you defeat the jailer, turn to 289.

STAMINAS5

304-306

304

You brave the smoke to grab your possessions, toss
ther out of the window, and then follow yourself,
edging over the sill until you are dangling by your
fingertips and looking down in readiness for the
fall. Suddenly you sense a presence above you. If
vou look up, turn to 148. If you let go immediately,
turn {0 97-

05
You launch a flying kick at the Crystal Warrior,
hoping to unbalance it. Sure enough, it wobbles
unsteadily, and you seize the chance to grab it
hammer. Roll two dice. If the result is less than your
SKILL, turn to 62. If itis greater than or equal to your
SKILL, turn to 398.

306
There are thousands upon thousands of people in
the army you face; yet nosound comes from them
307

save the tramp of boots in the dirt. You are
now close enough to observe the advancing front
rank. You expected to see barbarians from Kulak
Isle, metrcenanes, Orcs, ar other dire creatures
of Evil. The truth is far more shocking. Peasants
— men, women and children — march listlessly
towards you. They carry no weapons, but you
have no doubt of their destructive powers. Tum
lo 113.

‘The best companion of allis he. Loyal, yetindepen-
dent!’ she says. You smile uncomfortably, praying
that Caduceus will svon find something else to wrap
himself around. Aletheia continues: ‘The plague
which is upon this land is spread not by rats” She
raises her arms above her head once more and
conjures another vision. It is a swirling Goud of
huge black hornets. The vision disappears, and she
Speaks ayaim. ‘These parasites can steal a man’s
spirit with their slings, banishing it to the Abyss and
leaving his body a slave ta eval. And what warrior
can fight off foes so tiny?’ She pauses, as if deep in
thourht, then begins to create another vision.
‘There is one way they can be defeated. The un-
tainted leaf of the Jheera tree may be burnt to
produce a fragrant smoke that is fatal to these
soul-stealers. A young Jheera graws in the forest
But as the vision forms, her lace drops and she lets
outa gasp of surprise. A pile of loose sail marks the
spot where a tree has been uprooted ... Turn
to 282,

308-309

308

As you ride off he calls after you: ‘] curse you,
scoundrel! | will catch up with you one day and take
my revenge! You ride for another hour, certain that
you've left Tasbadh far behind, then settle down for
the rest of the night. Next moming, you are up
bright and early, and continue your journey. Soon
you entera small village, in which you hope to refill
your water bottle from the communal well. lick off a
time box. If you haye the Golden Fist, turn to 121. [f
not, turn to 261.

309
Suddenly vou hearactoak. You look about you and
sec a human face, embedded in a greenish slime.
‘Beware!’ it says. “Maijem-Nosoth will return. |,
Enthymesis, have failed in my task, and will pay
with my life; but you may yet live. Take the whistle
that lies at your feet; it will aid you in your fight.
Stay away from the sands—they lead to the Realm of
Bythos! Now beware — the beast returns!’ You pick
up a small silver whistle from the floor. If you flee
down the passage you came along, burn t> 230. If
you wait to face the horror, turn to 115.
310

310

After several minutes, the slight form of Dunyazad
breezes into the chamber, accompanied by a hulk-
ing bodyguard and a shifty, travel-stained indi-
vidual whom you recognize as Luthaur, one of the
other heroes who stayed behind to protect Kal-
lamehr. ‘What is it you want?’ she snaps abruptly at
you. You explain to her what you have discovered
during your journey, and noticing as you do so a
smirk appear on the face of the hero. When you
finish, Dunyazad turns to him. ‘1s this true?’ she
asks. “No, my Lady,’ he replies. ‘As you know, |
myself have just returned from scouting those very
lands, and I saw no invading horde. It was just a
wild story spread by some irresponsible rumour-
monger — the superstitious villagers had merely
abandoned their villages and hidden in the forests.
Does this wastrel think to impress you with these
ridiculous claims?’ Dunyazad turns back to you and
frowns. ‘T am too busy with the arrangements for
Lady Carolina’s funeral to listen to you two bicker. I
will use my own methods to ascertain the truth.
Meanwhile you will spend the night in the palace.’
You are led off to the servants’ quarters and givena
hard pailet to sleep on. Turn to 267,

511-314

311

You search the bodies of the Elves, discovering 17
Gold Pieces and a golden statuette in the shape of a
fist. The fingers are clenched around something that
rattles as you pick up the golden trophy. Try as you
might, you cannot unclench the fingers to reveal
what lies within. Turn to 163.

312

You forge ahead further into the heart of the forest.
‘The trees begin to close in on you, Towding out the
sunlight. The forest floor is now carpeted with
bright green moss, and you find yourself making
moderate progress on this springy turf. The atmos-
phere is close and humid, and you start to wheeze
with the effort, Walking in this weather is exhaust-
ing. Lose 1 point of stamina as the hours of
trudging pass. Finally you come upon a fork. Ifyou
take the right-hand path, turn to 231. Ifyou take the
left-hand path, turn to 213.

313
You pull off your cowl and face him defiantly. He
leans dawn towards you and laughs. ‘So you are
Allansia’s finest?’ he says, and laughs again. Your
adventure ends here,

314
The Quagrant fights by sucking its victims into its
mouth and then stipping their flesh off.

QUAGRANT SKILL8 STAMINA I4

345

If you lose an attack to the Quagrant, it sucks you
into its mouth. From then. on, you will lose 2 pomts
of stamina per Attack Round as il begins ta suck
the flesh off your bones even if you win the attack
against it. If you defeat the Quagrant, turn to 64,

345
She tells you her name is Mema, and that she is the
apprentice of the enchanter Enthymesis. She knows
little more than you of the reason why the village is
deserted. She has stayed hidden in the cupboard for
the last couple of days, since her master left. Before
going, he told her to remain hidden, and he cvoated
her in the green paste, which he said would protect
her. She tells you that, the evening before his depar-
ture, Enthymesis had been very worried by a di-
vination he had performed: He had told her that he
316-318

had to undertake a dangerous journey to seek gui-
dance from Aletheia the Sage who dwells in a
shifting forest in the mountains to the north. Then
he had insisted that she should stay hidden. Sure
enough, she had remained cowering in the cup-
board while a termble din came down upon the
settlement, Terrified, she listened to the hideous
shrieks of the townsfolk. ‘Finally silence descended
on the village, then you came.’ If you have not
already searched the wizard’s desk, you may do so
now (turn to 333). lf you have already searched the
desk, or if you dan’t wish to, you may leave the
house with Mema (turn to 2)-

316
The creature collapses in a heap and twitches.
Slowly it dissulves intoa greenish sticky mess which
steams and hisses. You step back from its revolting
remains, into the sand. Turn to 263.

317
You sleep well and awake refreshed in the moming.
You recover 2 points of STAMINA. Turn to 49-

318

As the Gatherer collapses, his robes fall open, re
vealing his shrivelled body. He has no possessions
apart from a silken sack, sa you peer over the rim of
the bow! to find out where he has come from. You
see a crystal chariot with two Ectovults tethered toit
and a Crystal Sprite standing patiently near by-
Turn to 27.

319-320

319

Around you the muted noises of the village begin to
subside, and the whirrs and chirrups of the river
insects take over. As time wears on, you notice that
a faint buzzing is growing louder. Soon the nearby
insects’ sounds are drowned out by this unnatural
rasping. You hear the screams of frightened villa-
gers, and the moon is blotted out by the source of
the terrible buzzing — directly above your hut! You
run to the door, but it willnot budge. You tum hack
to the hut in time to see a serpentine shape sliding
down through the smoke-hole. lurn to 86.

You take out the locketand tell how it was entrusted
to you by Ramedes before he was slain by traitorous
guards. You explain that the dead Luthaur had
imprisoned Ramedes immediately after the cham-
pion’s return with the relic Jast night. Asiah Albu~
dur comes forward and takes the locket from you.
‘This is the Fate of Rangor,’ she say’. ‘It will tell us
“ee 2 a | * ~~ —-

a

321-322

who is the true heir to the Barony.” Inside is a faded
picture of Ramedes, painted with uncanny accu-
racy. Even though the picture is old and cracked, as
if painted centuries ago, it depicts him exactly as he
appeared when you saw him last night. Asiah’s face
falls. “The heir is dead. All is lost.” You try te
reassure her. “You may have lost an heir, but you
have not lost the city yet. I was entristed with a
mission, and 1 will see it through.’ With a last bow,
you tum and make your way from the palace,
through the crowd which parts before you. Tum
to 183.

321
AS Fou press on, you nolice clusters of purple

fungus prowing on either side of the path. You have
lo pick your way carelully along the path to avoid
disturbing them — in case they carry poisonous
spores. You begin to remember tales told of
southern forests in which a hapless adventurer can
lose himself in a maze of shilling trackways,
wandering in circles until death from hunger and
exhaustion catches up with him. Ahead of you, the
trail divides into fwo. You may take the trail which
slopes downivards slightly and to the left (hun to
12), or try the other, which leads off to the nght
(turn to 21),

You are surrounded by a shroud of _mist, on a
featureless plain of crystal. Your only guides are the
muffled noises which penetrate the dense white

323-344

¥apour. There are several distinct noises, each com-
ing from a different direction. Do you head for the:

Moaning? Turn to 164
Creaking? Tum to 237
Whispenng? Turn to 203

323

You race around the room like a trapped rat, before
remembering the skylight above vour bed. Slinging
your backpack across your shoulders, you heave the
linen chest at the foot of your bed on to the top of it.

Coughing and spluttering, you clamber up and try
to batter the small window open. Just as it comes
loose, there is a roar, and the door splinters amid a
huge ball of fame. The bedclothes ignite imme
diately around you_ Your adventure ends here.

324
Even though he is almost disabled by the laughing
fit which grips him, yvour opponent manayes to
draw his sword and put up a spirited defence,

SLAVE MASTER
If you defeat him, turn to 302.

SKILL 10 STAMINA 15

—,
%

325-328

325

You turn your horse back towards the huge black
army. Tick off a time box. A brief ride brings you
within sight of it, and you watch helplessly as it
engulfs a small town in the valley below. Amid
the multitude, a palanquin is bone aloft by willing
hands, and above it hangs a pulsing black doud. If
you follow the army ata distance, turn to 7o. If you
ride down to the palanquin, turn to 368. If you have
Jheera leaves and wish to prepare them now, turn
oe & &

26
You have run out of ee While vou have been
dithering about in the wilderness, Kallamehr has
fallen. You have failed in your mission. You flee
Allansia.in shame. Your name will never be consi-
dered among those of its herovs. Your adventure
ends here.

327
The guards are still very happy to relieve you of

your wealth. Cross off the number of Gold Pieces
you give them from your Adventure Sheet. Unforiu-
nately, they still have no intention ofletting you into
the palace, Their smirking faces begin to irritate you
immensely, so you depart, seething. Turn to 230.

328
You hurl your sword straight at the creature. It
screeches as the blade slides into it nght up to the
hilt, but seems little affected by the wound. A

329

moment later, itis upon you. You are almost drag-
ged off your feet as it sucks hard at you, but you
steady yourself and prepare to battle it.

QUAGRANT SKILLS

You fight at —2 to your Allack Strength because you
are fighting without your sword, If you lose an
attack to the Quagrant, it sucks you into its mouth.
From then on, you will lose 2 points of ra MIN 4 per
Attack Round as it begins to suck the flesh off your
bones evert if you win the attack ayainst it. However,
you may reach out and retrieve your embedded
sword, allowing you to fight without further
penalty. IF you defeat the Quagrant, turn to 64.

STAMINA [2

329
You ride until nightfall. Although you are eager to
press on, your horse is tired, and il would be too
dangerous to continue in the darkness. You dis-
mount and prepare for a night to be spent in the
open. Tick off a time box_ If you have Sige’s poman-
der, turn to 63. Lf not, turn to 367.

339-334

339

With a shriek, one of the circling Ectovults divesinto
the bowl and shatters. As it re-forms and flies olf,
you see that it has left behind a brilliantly polished
gold shield. You watch as more Ectovults crash into
the bowl, depositing other plittering treasures
there. Then there is a lull. Six Crystal Warriors
march over the far rim of the crater, cach wielding a
massive hammer. They form a circle and raise their
hammers together, After five minutes they have
pounded the magical relics inta glowing pow der;
ihey then leave with the same clockwork precisinn.

Soon you hear the sound of a feeble chanting
approaching. If you hurry down to the middle of the
bowl, turn to 228. If you would rather stay hidden,

turn to 245.

331
In the cold fight of momime vou discover that you
have spent the night by the side of the road. What's
more, your horse is quietly praviny a short distance
away. As you remount and prepare to continue,
you notice a small roll of parchment tied to the
pommel of your saddle. It reads:
Before you I start, faze and square,
Yet once yore spay mie fivoa't be there,
Vanauished va word yet kings t bent
And rounded off wR @ ritine So steet.
iho wm J?

Add 2 LUCK points. Tick off a time box, then tum
to 7.
332-333

332
By the time you reach the bars you are nearly
exhausted (lose 1 point of STAMINA). Pausing fora
brief rest, you duck down and swim back under
them. Turn to 24.

333
Rurmmaging among the vials and pieces of scrap

paper on the desk, you come across a parchment,
stained green by a sticky syrup which has spilled
from a cracked bottle. You hold up the soggy sheet.
straining to read the scrawl which covers it. You
can‘t make out all the words, just occasional snip-
pets.

‘avid do nof lesve the house until you ere certain lhe danger
is past... , Under uo circumstances allow . . . safe then
vox should make your wey to your parenis® village by - - -
find yourself tn the shifting forest you mms? follow the
brush-bearer’s gloves ur be losiforever .. -

If you haven’t already done so, you may go to
examine the puppets and cupboard (turn to 244). Or
you may continue rummaging on the desk (fum

to 158).
a
“ty

=.

334-335

334
It would be too dangerous to accuse one of these

powerful people outright, but there is a way by
which you can prove the guilt of the murderer. You
must insist that one of the nobles shall kiss Carolina,
according to the old woman's tale. It is a strange
request, but one that they will find hard ta refuse—a
final mark of respect for the departed ruler, The
crowd are hushed, expectant. Which noble do you
ask to kiss Carolina:

Dunyazad of Ikhtiyan? Turn to 47
Madhaerios, Carolina’s cousin? Turn to 74
Sige the Silent? turn to 279
Asiah Albudur, the judge? Turn to 156

335
You hurry back through the door you had entered

by and find the entry-chamber full of cowled Ser-
vants of Bythos. As you enter they look up, their
cavernous eyes boring into yours. You raise your
sword to defend yourself, but crystal pillars erupt
from the floor beneath you, trapping you like arat in
@ cage. Into the chamber strides Bythos, a towering
figure over fifty feet high. Turn to 313.
335-337

336

You are cold. Youcan't see. You thrash around with
your limbs, but don’t hit anything. The only sound
is your own laboured breathing. Have you escaped
death, or is this death’s clammy chamber? You stop
flailing about and rub the darkness from your eyes.
As you pull your hands away, the wind is knocked
out of you as bodies slam into you from all direc-
fons. Suddenly your sight reftums. You are
smothered in a press of desperate, hollow-cyed
people. They stare at you with a mixture of pity and
resignation. You struggle through them, but are
brought up against thick iron bars. Beyond is a
vast empty expanse of shifting colour, glimmering
particles and terrifying sound. Fram this impossible
void flashes a streak of silver. It crashes straightinto
the bars and shatters into a million droplets. These
ré-form themselves in a grotesque, leering thing
which shoots off again into the distance, weaving a
vaporous trail, You turn to the others, but their cold
stares offer you no hope.

With a twist of your hips you jack-knife through the
opening. Bracing your legs against the upening, you
pull yourself through. Turn to 372.

:
=

~ —
338-339

338
You catch the aged priests by surprise. Peinting to
one side, you take a couple of steps and then leap,
sailing high over their heads, You land nimbly, pick
yourself up and race out of the Temple building.
Grabbing your harse from the stables, you mount
up and are soon away. Tum to 26.

339
The chunk of crystal you are standimg on starts to

turn over, and you leap from itjuslin time. You land
on the slippery crystal, unable to keep your balance.
Flattened against its oily surface, you watch in
horror as the black shape slams down on to the
crystal a few vards away, and advances on you.
Turn to 135.

349

340
You lower yourself slowly down the wall until you
are level with the window. Then you crane your
head round to peer in. The room is dimly lit, and
you strain to see the stark features of the Lady Sige,
which seem tu be staring back at you. You wait
breathlessly for her to challenge you, and then
realize that she is deep in medilation. She sits at a
small table, upon which lie a board and counters.
With her fingertips she gently moves the tokens
across it surface. Pressing your face to the glass,
you see that the board is a map of Kallamehr. You
wait a while to see if Sige stirs, but finally you give
up and return ta the keep’s rool. If this is the third
window vou have looked in, turn to 25. Otherwise,
you May rectum to your quarters (turn ta 151), or
investigate any of the following if you have nol done
so already:

The far left wali

The left centre wail
The nght centre wall

Turn to 397
Turn to 94
Turn to 218

341

341

Suddenly it dawns on you that you recognize the
yoice; it is that of your old blade-master, Barolo. 7
knew who it was from the start, you old scoundrel,”
you reply, “but a knife from behind is hardly your
style.” He relaxes his giip and allows you to turn
round, ‘We all have to change our strle to suit our
circumstances,’ he grins, and you see that there isa
wooden stump in place of his left leg. He sees your
pitving expression and sooffs: ‘Traded the ald one in
with a dragon.’ Barolo invites you to spend the rest
of the night at his house. Turn to 375-

342-343

342

The main door into the keep will undoubtedly be
well guarded. However, by climbing a flight of
stairs in the palace walls and slipping along the
walkway that nis along their top, you will be able
to reach its roof. Glancing round the courtyard, you
notice a coil of rope hanging froma hook outside the
stables, so you wrap this round you and make your
way up the stairs. You keep aneye open forany sign
of the guards who occasionally patrol the walkway.
Roll two dice. If the result is fess ian your SKILL,
turn to 71. If the result is greater than or equal to your
SKILL, turn tp 371-

343
You have no time to register your foe before il is

upon you. You feel fetid breath, and hear a sound
as of a stone ratthng against a shell. The beast’s
shape is hazy, and il shifts as you try to focus on it.
You swing your sword, but it clacks harmlessly
against a carapace. Then, from nowhere, jaws
spring forth at you, and you are lost.
Gu

344

344
You take your place in the long line of citizens
waiting to kiss the hand of their departed ruler. In
front of you, two citizens are having a whispered
argument, and you cannot help but overhear. ‘I’m
not having you kissin’ her hand, not after you
poached her finest swans!" says the wife of the pair.
Tve heard what they say! Your guilt would turn
her skin black as night! “Hush, woman!” her hus-
band replies. “Always grabbing the wrong end of
the spurtle. The tale goes that if a murderer kisses
its victim on the lips, they'll turn black as burnt
parchment. I've nothing to fear - she won't be
missing herswans now, willshe?” Asthey approach
the body, they fall silent and bow their heads in
reverence. Carolina lies in full regalia, the Sword of
Otfice gripped in her nghthand, while her left rests
upon 4 cushion so that her citizens may kissit. Your
turn comes, and you find yourself looking down at
the corpse of the woman who sent you on your
mission. As you bend to kiss her hand you lock eyes
with Luthaur, one of the heraes who remained
behind to defend Kallamehr. He stands just to one
side of the nobles’ platform, fidgeting nervously
with the pommel of his sword. Strangely, he betrays
no sign of recognition. What will you da:
345
Maunt the platform and demand
that the nobles hear your case? Turn to 43
Hold up the Sealed Locket, if you
haveit? + Turn to 110
Slip asway into the crowd and watch
the rest of the ceremony? Turn to 159

345

The Troll looks first at you, then at the sapling, then
at you again. His brow creases with effort as he
ponders your suggestion suspiciously. Finally he
grunts, and begins to rip the branches from the
sapling, flinging them all around. You race round
after them, plucking the leaves and stuffing them in
your backpack. The Troll, meanwhile, uses his
much-improved tool to lever a small, spiny creature
out of the hole. Me snatches his prey up greedily
and rams it whole into his drooling mouth. A mo-
ment later, he lets out a gurgling how! of pain.
Tearing at his throat maniacally, he leaps up and
down. Then he catches sight of you again. “You trick
me!" he croaks, and leaps to the attack.

TROLL

lf you wish, you may Escape after one Attack Round
— turn t> 248. If you defeat the Troll, turn to 60.

SKILLZ STAMINAG

346-347

346

You rece up to the rim of the bowl, then chance a
look back. The Crystal Warriors are no longer in-
terested in you. They are pounding at the magical
treasures, sending up plumes of golden pawder.
Then, abruptly, they stop and march off. Soon you
hear the sound of feeble chanting approaching. If
you hurry down into the bowl once more, turn lo
228. If you wait to see what happens, turn te 245.

347

The remaining villagers flee before you, and you
ride off into the night. When you are a safe distance
away, you stop and dismount. As youlight your tire
forthe night, you wonder whether you wereright to
slaughter the superstitious peasants. Perhaps the
prophecy was night after all, and you should have
stayed lo save them? Next morning, you set off once
more. The land through which rou are travelling
starts to climb once more. Tick off a time box and
turn t 7-
348-349
348

In aninstant you are on your feet, brandishing your
sword. You leap at the fire and launch a mighty kick
atit, Fiery embers cascade on to the stunned figures
of three Black Elves, and they yelp in pain. You
prepare to do battle with them, but it seems they
have had enough. They lope off into the darkness.
Turn to 163.

349

The knocking sound is coming from a large stone
building which has a sign outside: ‘Strangecan’s
Wine Emporium’, Cautiously, you open the door
and enter, stepping carefully over broken bottles.
The shop is wrecked from top to bottom, and the
floor is puddled with spilled wine. A slow, regular
thumping is coming from behind the counter. Peer-
ing over it, you see a trapdoor set into the floor. A
cask is wedged between the counter and the wall,
preventing the trapdoor from being opened. If you
iry to open the trapdoor, turn to 59. If you leave the
shop and look in the other buildings, turn to 228.

350-352

350

The vision vanishes from between the woman's
hands. “At least you're honest. Still, secrets must be
earned. My companion is hungry. You must go out
into the shifting forest and fetch hima tasty morsel.’
She points behind you, and you tum to find your-
self staring at a huge serpent. Shivering involun-
tarily, you edge back towards the opening in the
floor. The hut lowers, and you step on to the
ground. °A rat will donicely,’ the woman calls down
to you, as the thin legs straighten and the hut rises
once more. If you try to escape from the forest, turn
to 123. If you obey the woman and hunt for food,
turn fo 395.

351
You are thrown forward on to the ground as some-
iking slams into your back. You catch a vague
glimpse of a silvery shape as you fall, but it rapidly
screeches off into the misty wastes, Lose 1 sTAMTI-
NA point. Turn to 322.

352
The jailer cackles at your misfortune. Ramedes
drops from the grille above and lands heavily, You
have failed him. You have failed Kallamehr.

353-354

>
ae ui
ae (>
fi.

!
soe }

‘

353
You spend an unpleasant hour pacing upand down

the cell, wondering what can have gone wrong.
Dunyazad told you to stay at this Temple. Why
should the priests be so hostile? Ev entually you are
released, the High Priest explains that he has
spoken with Dunyazad, and vou are now to go free
to continue your mission. He scems loath to release
you. Nevertheless you soon find yourself back in
the streets of Hasrah with your possessions re
turned, Turn to 136.

Bie
a

354

The entry-chamber is full of cowled Servants of

Bythos, but with your new-found power you scatter
them effortlessly, You charge out of the palace in
time to see Bythos disappearing into the mist. You
head in his direction as fast as you can mim, follow-
ing his cracked footprints in the crystal surface.
Tinally you catch up with him. He has just tugged a
chain free from a hoop in the ground. As you watch,
it dnifts away upwards. Bythos tums to you witha
sneer. lf you attack him, turn to 196. If vou grab the
chain before it floats away, turn to 266.

355-356

You wake up in a cell. You cannot tell what time of
day itis. The hours drag by and nobudy appears at
the grille. The dull ache of hunger grows, and your
spinits desert you. Kallamehr is doomed.

356
The tree is gnarled with age, and is being slowly
Strangled by the creepers which hug it. Foxgloves
grow in profusicm, all drooping elegantly to the left,
towards the sunlight which filters through the leafy
canopy overhead. You may collect some foxgloves
and store them in your pack if you wish, If you now
proceed along the nght-hand path, write down the
number ‘2° on your Adventure Sheet and turn to 388.
If you take the left-hand path, write down the
number “3° on your Adventure Skeet and tum to 268.
357-360

357
No sooner have you slashed the Anemorus into a
blubbery mess than two more erupt from the water,
You prepare to do battle with them, but are beaten
to it. Three silver flying Ectovults smash into them
and you flee, to the sounds of screeching. Turn tu 3.

358
You spur your mare along the back of the ridge,
desperate to reach the village in time to warn them
of their peril. If Wema is with you, turn to 35. If not,
furn to 125.

359
You hide yourself in a pile of straw as the courtyard

fills with noise. Ramedes lets out a blood-curdling
roar, quickly followed by screams from the guards
in the Keep and the harsh clash of metal on metal.
Another roar goes up from Ramedes, this time
fainter. His final ery is one of pain, and a shoul of
triumph arises from the guardsmen. Saddened by
the defeat of Kallamehr's brave champion, you ex-
amine the trophy which he entmusted to vou, and for
which he fost his lite. Turn to 293.

360
You smash the javelin aside, and the cowled figure
gasps. He reaches down foranother piece of crystal.
You must act quickly. If you know the Spitting
Fly and wish to use it, turn to 190. If you try ta
charge him before he looses another missile, turn
(0 257.
361-363

361
By the time you have found your weapon and
groped your way back to the window, the flying
apparition has disappeared. The smoke is thick
now, and you can feel the heat of the floor through
the soles of your boots. Will you:

Run for the door? Turn to 61
Climb out of the window? Turn to 304
Look for another way out? Turn to 323
"@
362

You set out, treading carefully, down the passage

until finally you arrive at a fierce wall of fire which ~

fully blocks it. If you go back to the river and
investigate the bars, turn to 277. If you dive through
the flames, turn to 157.

393
The passage is very dark, and after a few yards you
nearly tumble down a steep flight of stairs. After a
tortuous descent the passage widens out, and you
see the warm glow of tarchlight ahead. You make
your way past a row of empty cells into a rough-
hewn cavern, full of shadowed niches and alcoves-
Your attention is drawn to the large metal grille set
into the floor. At its centre is a trapdoor of thinner
bars. A few feet from them, you make out a pair of
hands gripping the grille tightly. Stepping closer,
you see that aman is hanging from the grille, while
belosy him a huge shape moves in the darkness,
inaking foul sucking and gurgling noises. if you

364-366

have a crossbow and wish to shoot the creature
which lurks below, turn to 51. If you leave the
chamber, turn to 126. If you rush to open the
trapdoor, tum to 162.

304
Roll two dice. If the result is fess than your $KILL,
turn to 338- If the resultis greater than or equal fo your
SKILL, tum to 220.

365
With a mighty heave, you push over the goblet. It
shatters, and its sticky contents ooze over the floor,
You take the opportunity to examine the chamber. lt
is bare crystal, with only two exits — the door you
entered by and another within a huge crystal arch.
As you stare at this, you hear thunderous footsteps
approaching. It must be the Master! If you wait for
him to arrive, turn to 68. If you flee through the door
you entered by, turn to 335-

366
You are begining to lose all hope of ever finding
your way out of this shifting maze of pathways
when the trees ahead thin out and the trail leads into
2 large clearing. Add 1 LUCK point and tick offa time
box. Before you is one of the strangest dwelling-
places you have seen: a crude mud hut sitting
proudly on four spindly legs, twenty fect off the
ground. There are windows inits walls, but they are
too high up for you to see inside. There is no sign of
2 door, even though you walk all the way round the
367-369

hut, Ifyou salk under the hut, turn to 254. Ifyou try
lo climb its legs, turn to 202. If you wait to see what
happens, hurn to 145,

367
You light a small fire, then sink into a troubled

sleep, You dream of a leering face, floating grace-
fully in the air amid swirling douds and cackling
laughter. A huge shape looms up abore vou, and
you trake up with a start. A curved sword is poised
high above your head. You have a split second to
react before it falls! Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn ta 46. If you are Unlucky, tum to 232.

368
You spur your horse down towards the horde,
trying to quell your nsing fears. Itis vast, and a foul
stench wafts from il. As you near the bottom of the
slope, you pass a dark cave entrance. Then you
approach the horde. they take no notice of vou, but
the dark cloud above the palanquin begins to move
in your direction, picking up speed. If you have a
Jheera torch prepared, turn to 238. Othenvise, turn
tt) 113.

369
The murky potion slides reluctantly down your
throat, lt doesn’t taste of anything but rust and it
doesn’t haye any noticeable effect on your body.
Disappointed, you turn arou—

., +» YOU are lying in a heap on the ground, still
clutching the empty vial. Youclimb groggily to your

zk aes for

feet, and sway as a wave of dizziness sweeps over
you. Angniy you hurl the vial to the ground. Tick off
two time boxes and return to the paragraph you left,

379

The remaming Kokomokoa are stripping the corp-
ses of the dead Murkurons, so you seize the chance
to charge through the door, slamming and bolting it
behind you. You find yourself ina small tunnel; you
have to stoop to make your way along it. On either
side are alcoves, muddy and rank. lenoring these,
you continue down the tunnel until it opens into a
large round chamber. Turn to 82,

373

As you sneak up the flight of stairs, You see a
guardsman coming along the walkway im your
direction. You flatten yourself against the wall, but
itis too late. The guard peers down al you and levels
his crossbow at you. ‘What's your game, then?’ he
demands. He stands, feet astride, at the top of the
flight of stairs, fifteen feet from you. If you wish to
rush him, turn to 117. If you try to talk your way out
of this, turn to 198. If you know the Spitting Fly and
wish to use it, turn to 298-

372

372

Inside the hut there is none of the clutter you have
come te expect from the dwelling-places of magical
folk. There is no furniture of any kind, no books or
scrolls, not even a single vial of potian! Through the
windows set in the smooth walls you can look out
into the forest. Squatting in the middle of the floor is
an old woman dressed in a rough shill. Her hands
are raised above her head, and between them you
see a shimmering vision, floating in the air. In a
switling void hangs a wall of cells, full of dishevel-
led prisoners. She looks you in the eyes and speaks:
‘A vision from your future, perhaps? Look closely.
Look hard at the slaves of the abyss! Their souls are
in thrall to its Master, and you must rescue them
before itis too late. This much | will tell you. Ifyou
wish for more you must pay for it. Can you speak
my name? Do you say:

“Enthymesis’? Turn to 50
‘Aletheia’? Turn to 80
‘Albudur’? Turn to 101

Tcannot’? Turn to 350

373-375

Brushing the flailing branches aside, you race in
pursuit of the black figure. Witha mighty effort, you
smash through a wall of undergrowth. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 38. Hf you are Un-
lucky, turn to 100.

374
Bythos snatches up the goblct and greedily drains

its contents. Then he turns to you, “Don't leave yei,
Gatherer!’ he says, smiling. ‘Someone has un-
finished business with you.” You try to draw your
sword, but as your hand alights on the hilt an arm
snakes round your neck and holds a crystal dagger
to your throat, “You may have killed me ance,” Sige
whispers in your ear, ‘but Iwill have the last laugh.”
Your adventure ends here.

375
Barolo directs you toa flea-ndden bunk. You cal-
lapse into it gratefully. If you have Sige’s pomander
and wish to wear it, turn to 33. Otherwise: turn
to 317.

376-377

376

The locket snaps open very easily this time, and the
guards shrink away from you. The nobles stare at
the interior of the treasure with a mixture of be
wildermentand shock. You burn the locket round in
your hand and take a look within: inside is a faded
Picture of Ramedes, painted with uncanny accu-
racy. Even though the picture is old and cracked, as
if painted centuries ago, it depicts him exactly as he
appeared when you saw him last night. Asiah Albu-
dur leaps to her feet and gestures for silence. ‘The
Fate of Rangor has decreed the truth. Ramedes is
the new Baron of Kallamehr!’ You clear your throat
to attract her attention, then tell her of Ramedes’s
death. You point at Luthaur and accuse him of
being a traitor. Guards surround him and he is
dragyed away, protesting his innocence all the
while, you turn to the four nobles. Turn to 334.

377
Leaving the glittering treasures where they lic, you
drag yourself past the bars and make for the surface,
lungs bursting. Just in time, you break the surface
-- er aaa ni eee

378

and take a deep breath. Then you strike out once
more. You swim into the darkness, becoming aware
of a raaring sound coming from ahead, If you swim
back to the barred arch, turn to 332. If you carry on,
turn tou 215.

3

As the Quagrant lumbers in your direction, you
draw Mema’‘s blow-pipe from your pocket and
point the slender tube at the creature. Ii begins to
suck at you, and you struggle to keep your footing.
At the last possible moment, vou blow hard down
the tube. A cloud of fine powder billows forth and is
instantly sucked into the creature's gaping mouth.
With a convulsive shudder it collapses backwards,
choking and wheezing asthmatically. Seizing your
opportunity, you draw your sword and leap in to
attack,

QUAGRANT SKILL6

If you lose an attack to the Quagrant, it sucks you
into its mouth. From then on, vou will lose 2 points
of STAMINA per Attack Round as it begins to suck
the flesh off your bones even if you win the attack
ayainst it. If you defeat the Quagrant, tum to 64.

STAMINAS

379-380

379
Your possessions are thoroughly gone through, but

the priests are not satisfied. “What have you done
with it?” demands the High Priest. You protest your
innocence and explain that you are on an important
mission. When you mention that it was Dunyazad
of ikhtiyan who told you to stay at the Temple, the
Tigh Priest sits up- ‘We will test the truth of your
story,’ he says. You are led away toa cell by two of
the priests. Turn to 353.

380
Your blast catches Bythos unawares. He stumbles
back in surprise, as crystals torm all over him. They
etrate into him and spread throughout his body
rapidly as he turns to a statue of solid crystal. Still
holding the chain, you kick your opponent con-
temptuously. Turn te 108.
381-382

381

There is a faint path which follows the river-bank,
and you make your way along it. After a short while
it plunges back into the forest. If you have three
numbers wrilten on your Adveniure Sheet, turn to
the paragraph whose number is given by the three
digits. Otherwise, if you have the number “2 on
your Adventure Sheet, add the number “3' and turn to
268. If you have the number ‘3’. then add ‘2° and
turn 10 388.

382
With a great effort you lower your head and slip off
the pornander, You sce it fall to the ground, then a
wave of exhaustion sweeps over you and you
sprawl unconscious on the bed. Tick off a time box
and tum to 28-

*

383

3553

The pressure of the sand as you are dragged downis
almost unbearable. Unable t) move, vou await the
inevitable. Just as you have given up hope, you
burst into space and plummet down through air full
of glittering sand and treasures. Below vou are
swirling mists, and around you thunder booms
from the starry wastes. Have you escaped death by
crushing, only to be dashed against the ground
below? Your speed increases, and you lose con-
sciousness. You wake in a heap ona smovth, cold
surface. Around you, magical treasures of various
shapes and sizes float gently to the ground, A thick
mist swirls, obscuring all but your immediate sur-
roundings, and strange shapes shift among it. Ifyou
have Sige’s pomander and know what to do with il,
turn to 8. Ifyou examine theitems, tum to 87. If you
try to find your way through the mist, turn to 116.
334

As Sige falls dead at your feet, a deep rumbling
noise reaches your cars. It grows louder and louder
until your whole body is shaking. The terrified
citizens cower away. Then there is the sound of a
thunderclap which almost knocks you off your feet;
@ smoky black tentacle curls from Sige’s mouth and
forms into a gaseous parody of her earthly form. It
shoots straight at your face ancl you try desperately
to ward it off with your arms. Something brittle
shatters against your left hand, and the gaseous
form disperses. Then pain shoots up your arm,
Prepared for the worst, you look down at your left
hand which is writhing within a blue vapour. You
thrust it under your arm to quench the fell flame.
The pain eases slightly, and you withdraw your
hand. It is now shrouded in green light; as you
watch, the colour changes through yellow and
orange to red. The pain settles to a dull ache. The
crisis over, the remaining nobles Jook to you for
leadership. You arrange for all of Sige’s servants in
the city to be put under guard, and you see to the
preparation of defences for the city. The other
heroes, you discover, were all mysteriously slain —
385-386

presumably through Sige’s villainy — so you are
forced to leave the job in the hands of the remaining
loyal guards. Then you prepare t journey forth
ance more, The hostile army still threatens, and you
have a duty to Lady Carolina to fulfil. Tur to 283-

385

Presently a villager returns and whispers briefly to
one of yt sur hosts, Without a word being spoken in
your direction, he rises and gestures to the others.
‘They all baw politely to you, then file out ofthe hut,
closing the door behind them. You make to follow
them, but find the door barred. You are imprisoned!
A scratchy voice filters through to you from outside-
‘*\Nelcame, Protector. As foretold, you have come to
save us from the creeping plague! Fat and rest
prepare yourself for the trial which awaits you.
Tricked by peasants! You wonder what “creeping
plague’ awaits you; judging by the pitiful state of the
village, il’s probably lice in their sheep. - - Through
the smoke-hole in the ceiling the moonlight streams
inty the hut, Turn to 319.

385

You spur your panic-stricken horse back up the
narrow hill path as the cloud of black homets swirls
Lowards you. You have pushed your mare too hard,
though. She stumbles and then, as the first homet
slings her, she rears, dashing you agains! a jagged
rock. The useless Jheera torch slips trom your grasp.
You hardly feel the stings of the hornets es they
Swarm OVer YOU . - .

387-388

387
The guards are very happy t> accept your Gold
Pieces. Cross off the number you give from your
Adventure Sheet. lf you gave the guards fewer than 6
Gold Preces, farn to 30. IF you gave them 6 or more
Gold Pieces, turn to 185.

You push vour way carefully along the narrow path.
Aftera short while you begin to hear sounds coming
from ahead. Treading carefully, you press on, €x-
pecting the worst. Suddenly you hear a loud
crashing noise followed by a shnill ‘By Ugbar’s
fingers!’ This cursing is stifled by a loud ‘Shush!’ but
other yoices cry out: ‘Shall T shoot ‘im now?’ ‘Not
until | give the signal!” ‘What's the signal again?’

Suddenly a voice shouts ‘Now!’ There is a twang-
ing sound from the trees near by and a small bow:
shoots from them, landing at your feet. At the same
lime a short, stacky Agure leaps on to the path
ahead of you, pointing a crossbow at you. “Aha! he
yells, and lets fly a bolt. Turn to 189.

385-390

‘Most kind! says Bythos, reaching out to take the
Golden Fist. He tosses it over his shoulder, then
draws ina deep breath, Before you can act, a freez-
ing blast strikes you, and crystals form with startling
speed on your skin. As Bythos continues to breathe
af you, the crystals spread; soon you are encased, a
living statue, doomed to live out the rest of your life
as a morbid omament for the Master of the Abyss.

399

You are rapidly surrounded by priests carrying
short staves. There is something very odd about
their movements — they are well trained in the
fighting arts, yet move jerkily, as if under some
restriction. You are encircled by a ring of staves. Will
you:

Draw your sword and attempt

to fight your way out?
Try to leap over the priests’

Turnto a

391-392

39% :

By letting vour right shoulder drop, vou manage 10
twist your body out of the creature's erip and punch
with your left fist. You scramble to your feet and
stumble towards the steps, knowing: thal Hliehe is
your only hope. Fear lends you strength, and you
race up the steps and through the trapdoor before
your pursuer can lay a hand on you. Hastily, you
wedge the cask back over the trapdvar to prevent
the creature escaping, As you lurch out of the shop,
the slow, relentless pounding begins once more.
Turn to 128.

392
The skylight! You sling your backpack across your
shoulder and heave the linen chest up on to the bed,
then climb on top t» reach the small window, It is
hard to move, and the heat is almost unbearable as
vou finally push it open- You puil vourself through
with a grunt just as the door « ollapses in a welter of
sparks and the room is enveloped in fire. Na soaner
389-390

“Most kind!’ says Bythos, reaching out to take the
Golden Fist. He tosses it over his shoulder, then
draws in a deep breath. Before you can act, a freez-
ing blast strikes you, and crystals form with startling
speed on your skin. As Bythos continues to breathe
at you, the crystals spread; soon you are encased, a
living statue, doomed to live out the rest of your life
as a morbid ornament for the Master of the Abyss.

390
You are rapidly surrounded by priests carrying
short staves. There is something very odd about
their movements — they are wel] trained in the
fighting arts, yet move jerkily, as if under same
restriction, You are encircled by a ting of staves. Will
you:

Draw your sword and attempt

to fight your way out? Turn to 41
Try to leap over the pricsts’

arms and escape? Turn to 364
Surrender to them? Turn to 56

391-392

392
By letting your right shoulder drop, you manage to
twist your body outot the creature’s grip and punch
with your left fist. You scramble to your feet and
stumble towards the steps, knowing that flight is
your only hope. Fear lends you strength, and you
race up the steps and through the trapdoor before
your pursuer can lay a hand on you. Hastily, you
wedge the cask back over the trapdoor to prevent
the creature escaping. As you lurch out of the shop,
the slow, relentless pounding begins once more.

Turn to 428.

Od

7

ts

‘eur {

- “.
‘S--
aon

=
bs)
<<

=,
:

392
Phe skylight! You sling your backpack across your
shoulderand heave the linen chest up on to the bed,
then climb on top to reach the small window. It is
hard to move, and the heat is almost unbearable as
you finally push it open. You pull yourself through
with a grunt just as the door collapses in a welter af
sparks and the room is envelaped in fire. No sooner
have you found your feet on the sloping roof than
you hear a loud buzzing above your head. You tum
= Si

393-394

— in time to ward off a blow from the large black
creature that swoops down on you, buf you stumble
and lose your footing. You slide down the roof, then
dangle for a moment from the guttering before
dropping all the way to the ground. Rollone die and
lase this number of STAMINA points, Turn to 1114.

393 ;
One moment you are reeling from the impact of

something slamming into your back; the next you
are floating up into the air, rapidly gathering speed.
The air around you is a whirl of dancing silver
shapes, and you realize that you are encased in the
quivering body of a strange flying creature — an
Ectovult. The ground is obscured by a carpet of
shifting mist, but to your left you can see a floating
wall of cells, stretching off towards the horizon.
Then you plummet back down through the douds.
‘Turn to 36. A

L

394
It's a good thing you changed your horse, for it
means you can travel at a gallop back to Kallamehr.

395~396

You ride through the night towards the familiar
beacon of the Rangor Tower, Just before you reach
the city, you are overtaken by another nider.
Mounted on a powerful black stallion, he is
obscured by a billowing black cloak. He thunders
through the city gates well ahead of you. Dawn is
breaking as you enter the city and hurry to deliver
your tidings to a bleary Dunyazad. Composing
herself, she tries to salvage something from her
shattered plans. ‘Khasseeb has just come from the
army- He knows the land’s many ways. It would be
better if he were to fetch aid, You must take on the
task of your fallen comrade: scout out the invaders.
Learn their ways and plans. Go now and choose
a new horse; then scout east. Too much time has
been lost already.’ Tick off a time box and turn
to 140.

395
You wander the forest dejectedly, hunting for
rodents. Test your Lick. [fvou are Lucky, turn to 276.
if you are Unlucky, turn to 243.

396

You leap up on to your horse’s back, then hoist
Mema up in front of you. Saon yau are galloping
back along the road which brought you here. You
turn off the road leading back to Kallamehr and race
along a narrow track which winds up the hillside.
You can see the lands far about, and off to vourlefta
lazy plume of smoke drifts into the sky from Mema’s
village. Tick off a ime box, then turn to 95.
397-398

397
You lower yourself slowly down the wall until you

arc level with the window. Then you crane your
head round to peer in, A lantern illuminates an
opulently furnished room. You see nothing suspi-
cous, however, and are about to pull yourself back
up, when there is a knock at the door. From under
the huge bed crawls the quaking, blubbery form of
Madhaerios, dressed ina night-gown. He opens the
door a crack and peers out. A tray piled high with
food is passed to him, then he guickly slams and
bers the door again. He turns to the tray and
greedily mps a leg off achicken. As he raises it to his
mouth he pauses, then stares suspiciously atit, [His
eyes dart about the room anxiuusly, then he flings
the food from him and stts back on the bed, shooting
glances around the room, his nose twitching con-
stantly. You haul yourself back up to the roof. Tf this
is the third window you have looked in, turn to 25.
Othenvise, you may retum to your quarters (turn to
151), or investigate any of the following if you have
not done so already:

The left centre wall furn to 94
The right centre wall Tum to 218
The far right wall Turn to 340

The Crystal Warrior shatters, but you are now sur-
rounded by the remuining five. As one, they closein
and raise their hammers . . . to them you are just
another trinket to be crushed.
399-400

399
You face half a dozen guards. For all your skills asa

warrior, you cannot defeat six trained men at one
time. You shrink back before the combined assault
of the guards, only to be shoved back at them by the
hostile, jeering crowd behind you. Death comes
quickly,

400
While searching through the palace you have in-
herited, you come upon a scrying mirror, set into a
wall of crystal. A Servant shuffles forward and
show's you how to use it; you train it on Kallamehr,
hoping to see the fruits of your sacrifice. Sure
enough, the fields are full of villagers once more and
the land is rejoicing under its new Baron
Madhaenios. You look with pride upona land which
is freed from Bythos’s clammy grip and Sige’s nefa-
Tinus scheming. Feeling that your sacrifice is bear-
able, you leave the mirrorand make your way to one
of the towers of the palace. As you gaze out at the
vast swirling plains of the Abyss, you hear the
sound of a thousand leathery wings. Soon the airis
thick with circling Ectovults. For a moment you are
gripped by fear; is this some last trick of Bythos? But
they have only come to salute their new Ruler.
Then something coils round your Iegs, pulling you
off balance. You crash to the ground and find your-
self face-to-grinning-face with Caduceus the Ser-
pent. ‘Much wisdom is mine,‘ he says, ‘and I have
much time to share it with you. [hope you will find
me an entertaining companion.’ Givena choice, you

o~-

400

might have preferred lighter company; but you
soon find that the serpent is as wise as he claims.
With his great knowledge to guide you, you uncov-
er secrets beyond your imagination. Your power
grows ever greater, until the memory of your former
hfe in Allansia becomes a distant dream. Finally,
you unravel the mystery of travel belween the
planes, and embark upon an adventure which
spans the cosmos and cancerns the gods them-
selves. But that is another tale, to be found in the
books of myth and legend . - .

oe

a

