* FIGHTIN G FANTASY BOOKS

i Over 10 million copies sold worldwide |

( LIVINGSTONE

__ PRESEN Eas ssi ieee

“99999

——— ——

ee FAALS

p10, AYS ANOLSONIATT NVI GNV

io to)
oe)

C} |
; A PUFFIN BOOK ISBN 0-14-032601-4
4 90 1

mH

DIAGRAM
START SIDE

1

DIAGRAM 2

PUFFIN BOOKS

SKY LORD

Beneath the Dome of Marvels, in the legendary vaults of Aarok,
the treacherous L’Bastin is cloning an army of terrifying super-
warriors, to conquer the cosmos. And only YOU, Sky Lord
Jang Mistral, élite solar trooper, special agent — and four-armed
fighter! — from the sixteenth aeon, can stop him.

Armed with a laser sword and pistol, electro-javelin and spiked
buckler, you must journey into the vaults and defeat the
evil mastermind. But beware! L’Bastin has set many traps.
Monsters, mutants and space brigands lie in wait for the
unwary, and success is by no means certain. If you fail, millions
will die; if you succeed, you will win a prize almost beyond your
wildest dreams!

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you need to embark on
this thrilling adventure, which is complete with its elaborate
combat system and a score sheet to record your gains and
losses.

Many dangers lie ahead and your success is by no means
certain. YOU decide which routes to follow, which dangers to
risk and which monsters to fight.
Pemine Fanizss Garchovls

J. THE WARLOCK D> ne ror 26 CREATURE OF 44
HMOUNTAN s* SENEWTS MCEIMARE LAST

a CHAM > CHADS 6 CHIT) an St SORCSPES
3. TS SOSESI OF Scr 2>. STAR STRLMUE

+ STARS > TRAVELLER 3 “ANTS OF FEAR
ScCiy Ob Tit 4) MIDNA RE

2 DOEATRITRAP CURCEON % CHASMS OF hk

eo SLAR IT CHE UPZARDEKNG 30 GAN MLA A AFROOR
# SOORFION SHAM 32. SLAYS> CS NE Ar

8 CA'ERNS OF THE SNOWY FIT xy ORE

WW SL CMe. 34°STLALE CY “aS

1? SPACE ASSASSIN ARNIS Te DEATH
13, RELAY HLT OR 3), POSIAL

14. TEMPLE OF TERR OS a% SAMLT OF TS VATS

15 TIE RINGS OC SETHER s2. T= iim:
16. SEAS. OF DLOOD 43, DEad OF MIT

17. APAOURT MENT ITH FSAR. 7 Hasek OF CEACS

(2, KEEL VLAN OF a2 PLACK Filh reid aac
ts. PEMONS OF == Se > KEEP SS TS US
2. See KID Oe TEE SAMURAI 44 (Nit? THE S=AD07
2). TAL CP OSAMPICNS WARRIORS

7 HORT COMMANDO 97> STR AL STACSSS

oe se!

Srewe Joecere:'s SORCERY!
:. THE SLAMUTART UL 2 T= SSVES SITES
LKSARS CITYPORT OF TRAP: 1 CLOWN OF TINCS

OUTING FANTASY — The Srirsniurtons tuies"oyine Came

TH= RIDIIING, REAVER — Scenanmos tor tre Pyprine Fenlaey Rob-Plisrs
Came — Pour Thnitrss Acleecrunes

QL) UR THE PLY — Pghting Portasy Morse

TITAN — The Fiphbing sarin Wood

JME IR@LLIOOIN WARS — A Pypring Faulagy Nove

g-"JACKSON +0
je LIVINGSTONE

SrFeESENI!

by Martin Allen
Ilustrated by Tim Sell

PLIFFIN BOOKS
Thanks fo
Keith, Rickard, Andrew, Gail, Cugel, Mion and Dad

“LIP SCS

Tihdsced fre te fergretr. Siero
(r-pisn Rocks Led sp Perel Lee code «S$ So “<gh-4
Wiens, Vecgetn, 2 ctreicn oe Revgarn Bache CSA be
se= Hoda Sock hew Ton, Whew “eee aes 4, US
Peni Same Aida LL Rigecal Valo Ac ol
Sensi “ooss Urnate ld of jatn ert. boectorn Cinesa. Cauda ist itu
Posngeit: Baths IMZ Lid cde Beige Beat, Sueane a Sew Zceme

Pezqiutn Dacha Lid Sealsicred OTere | semacduents Misdeex Tagged

lire! crbrered 250°
i a<¢

Conoen ccper gh: & steve acdere sca iss, bempire: 20-
Text cops. 1 Marie Siler. aot
Wererahrere srecycysit: 9 Tere Sil ee
2) egtty teem

Pretec on Fealecd try Cec Lid Si Deca pee
law th teécy Unetren tata

Leeect on the Cees Steho cf tence
tis bus 6 MA eigre lo te rectine
test co ecsli tect, bey seas 2¢ suds cr row
bes bed, pe ace. beret cot, or ceterccer rte:
ithe. thie pobdscay > poor commen in aca fren
fencing ce corr ctor: tan thei nn ehah i ib
pobisced ane without 2 erie acdéren
ienlclig hs cuudlior ase epawd
I7 Toe susegecd Sea

CONTENTS

ABOUT YOUR STAR SYSTEM
7
YOUR ABILITIES
11
COMBAT
13
ADVENTURE SHEET
18
SPACE COMBAT SHEFT
20
MISSION BACKGROUND
22
COLNTDOWN.. -

29
ABOUT YOUR STAR SYSTEM

You are Sky Lord Jang Mistral, élite solar trooper,
special agent —and four-armed humanoid warmor—
from the sixteenth aeon-

Your home planet, Ensulina, is just one of countless
thousands of worlds inhabiling the famous Holo
Faluksh star chain — a dazzling spray of more than
one hundred thousand live stars and innumerable
planetoids, bordering the Berenices Supergalaxy.
Some of these worlds, whether baking in the wild
solar flares of near-by suns or wandening the bitterly
cold galactic wastes, are only lifeless husks. These
are of little yalue to anyone except the ruthless
galactic pirates and space desperadoes who use
them for their evil purposes. Yet there exist many
other worlds less daunting: with kinder climates
and hospitable environments; on many of these a
wondrously diverse array of life-forms have estab-
lished themselves.

Your own race, the Ensulvars, is a bh»od-mix of two
ancient nations: the dawn-time Enzuls, the planet's
original inhabitants, and the Ivars, a war clan from
Iajax-Green. The Ivars invaded Ensulina during the
second aeon, at first defeating and later mixing into
the more populous Enzul race. The resulting nation
of grey-eyed, four-armed humanoids retained the
best traits of their ancestors: the culture and wisdom

7

¢
of the Enzuls, and the courage of the Ivars. As 4
result, they have been respected and admired by the
inhabitants of many other planets in the star system
(particularly the uyo-armed humanoids!) and
enjoyed a peaceful existence for many years-

During the twelfth aeon, however, a vast galactic
war suddenly broke out: two powerful races, the
Fethps (ureedy, two-headed reptiloids) and the
Deik (large purple molluscoids of unknawn on-
eins), always deadly rivals, had secretly amassed
mighty armies and space fleets. Simultancously
their armadas stormed across the galaxy at each
other, destroying or conquering the planets in their
path. The war raged for thousands of years, dunng
which time Ensulina was conquered by the merc-
less Deik, Lhe Ensulvars were enslaved and forced
to produce war machinery for their captors.

g

Only gradually, following wave upon wave of
murderous assaults on each other, did the strength
of the Deik and Fethps begin to wane, In the thir-
teenth acon the enslaved races of thousands of
worlds were sparked to revolution. Led by Ari
Skyfarer, 2 human from Arbitrakt, they rapidly
ousted their cruel masters and, employing the
weaponry they had previously been forced to build,
finally drove both the Deik and Fethps from the star
system.

The end of the war signalled the beginning of the
Long Peace which has lasted to this day. An Sky-
farer, the greatest galactic hero, was crowned first
Grand Emperor and, in order to maintain a lasting
peace, the Council of Star Kings was formed. The
council, whose members include the kings of many
worlds {including your own King Vaax), usually
meets every five hundred days at the Grand Em-
peror’s palace on Arbitrakt. There, the council tries
to resolve peacefully any disputes between its mem-
ber planets and reaffirms its intention to defend its
planets from alien threats, galactic pirates and inter-
galactic invaders. The latter functions are per
formed by the Emperor's Imperial Guard, or by the
heroic solar troopers — of whom you are a member.

On Ensulina, the title of Tord’ is nota birthright, but
must be eamed in some way. It was your excep-
tional skill and courage shown when fighting in the
ranks of the solar troopers which earned you your
first lordship title - that of a Knight of Ensulina -
when you were only twenty years old. Since that

9
time your fellow peers, the lords of Ensulina, have
often employed you as a special agent, performing
hazardous and extremely secret missions fo ensure
the security of Ensulina and the Friendly Worlds.
Because of your accomplishments, you have been
honoured with further titles — the latest, that of Sky
Baron, being awarded after capturing the mur-
derous Olaf Tharkin and his band of solar cut
throats.

But now you haye been summoned to appear before
King Vaax and your fellow lords, to be bricfed on a
new mission: the most perilous, most challenging —
and most unusual — adventure of your career.
Failure will bring disaster for Ensulina; success
will bring you a treasure beyond your wildest
dreams . ..

However, before you can receive details of your
mission, you must learn how to use your special
skills and weapons and your starship, which will
assist you during the course of youradyenture. You
will also require two dice, a pencil and an eraser, to
record your scores and equipment gained along the
way

10

YOUR ABILITIES

Your abilities to Aight, withstand damage and
escape from tricky situations are determined by
VOUT SKILL, STAMINA and LUCK points. On the
Adventure Sheet on pages 18—19 you will see sections
where these attributes are to be recorded, They are
obtained as follows:

Roll one die. Add 6 to the result. Fnter this total as
yOur SKILL.

Roll svo dice. Add 12 to the result. Enter this total as
your STAMINA score. If your STAMINA ever
reaches zero, then you have been killed.

Roll one die. Add 6 to the result. Enter this total as
your | UCK.

Using Luck

From time to time you will be called upon to ‘Iva!
your Lick. When this occurs, roll two dice. If the
result is less that or equal fo Vour current LUCK score,
then you haye been Lucky_ If the result exceeds your
current LUCK score, then vou have been Unlucky,

i1
Each time you Test your Luck, you must deduct 1
point from your current LUCK score. Thus the more
you use your LUCK, the riskier it becomes. LUCK
points may sometimes be restored (you will be told
in the relevant paragraph when this is so), but may
never exceed your Initial score.

Restoring Stamina

During the course of your adventure, you are
almost certain to lose sTAMINA points. Generally,
you may recover these by consuming Provision
Tablets at any time other than when engaged in
combat or other hostilities. You begin your adven-
ture with 10 Provision Tablets — list these on your
Adventure Sheet. For each tablet you consume, you
will recover 4 points of stamina. Note, however,
that your STAMINA may Never exceed its Initial
score.

Restoring Skill

There will be occasions during the adventure when
you may lose SKILL points, and other occasions
when you may gain SKILL points. However, your
SKILL may never exceed its Initial value.

Money

You also begin your adventure with 10 credits, the
most common galactic currency. Add these to your
Adventure Sheet-

12

COMBAT

During the course of your adventure you will prob-
ably be required to fight in two distinctly different
sorts of battles, known as Personal Combat and
Combat-Weapon Clashes.

Personal Combat

The rules for Personal Combat are much the same as
in other Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks, but with a
few minor differences tv keep in mind. The basic
rules of combat are: ;

1. Combat is simultaneous. Individual combat is
conducted as a series of rounds, in which one
combatant will inflict damage on the other.

. Roll two dice and add vour opponent's SKILL
score to the roll. This total is your opponent's
Attack Strength.

3. Roll two dice again and add your $KtL1. score to

the roll. This total is your Attack Strength.

lf your opponent's Attack Strength is greater

than yours, the opponent has inflicted damage

upon vou: deduct 2 points from your STAMINA.

. If your Attack Strength is greater than your
opponent's, you have inflicted damage upon
your opponent: deduct 2 points from your
opponent's STAMINA,

tu

4-

tal

43
6. I€ both Attack Strengths are equal, both attacks
have missed. Start the next combat round from
step 2 above.

7, Continue this combat until either your op-
ponent's or your Own STAMINA is reduced to
zero (death).

In cases where you are instructed to fight more than
one opponent, fight only the first listed. If you
defeat this opponent, go on to fight the second
listed, and so an.

Using Luck in Combat

On certain pages of the book you will be told to Test
your Luck, and you will find out the consequences of
being Lucky or Unlucky. However, in personal
combat {but vo! in combatsveapon clashes), you
always have the option of using your Luck either to
inflict a more serious wound on an opponent you
have just wounded, or te minimize the effects of a
wound you have just received.

14

If you have just wounded your opponent, you may
Test your Luck as described above. I you are Lucky,
you have inflicted a severe wound and may subtract
an exiya 2 points from it STAMINA score, If you are
Unlucky, however, the wound turns out to be a
mere graze and you must restore 1 point to your
opponent’s STAMINA (i-e. instead of scoring the
normal 2 points of damage, you have now scored
only 2).

If your opponent has just wounded you, you may
Test vour Luck ta try to minimize the wound. Tf you
art Lucky, vou have managed to avoid the tull fore
of the blow: restore 1 STAMINA point (i.e. instead at
losing 2 points, you lose only 1). If you are Unlucky,
you have taken a more serious wound and must
subtract 1 extnt STAMINA point.

Remember that you must subtract 1 point from your
LUCK score each time you Test your Liick,

15
Combat-Weapon Clashes

When you fightan vpponent who hasaRATinGand
numbers for LASERS and SHIELDs listed in the text,
then you are involved in a Combat-Weapon Clash-
Unlike Personal Combat, these encounters usually
involve fighting between sophisticated combat
vehicles, one of which is always piloted by yourself.

You have already attamed a good proficency, or
RATING, in piloting many combat vehicles. Roll one
die to determine your RATING; if you roll 1, 2 or 3
your RATING equals 3; if you roll 4, 5 or 6 your
RATING equals 4, Then enier the result in the
RATING box on your Adventure Sheet.

The basic rules for Combat-Weapon Clashes are:

1. Combat-Weapon Clashes, unlike Personal Com
bat, are not simulianeous. To determine which
craft (yours or your opponent's) will fire first,
compare your RATING to your opponent's
RATING. {Your RATING will not be given in the
text, of course; refer each time to your Adventure
Sheet.) Jf your RATING number is greater than
your opponent's, you will shoot first; otherwise,
your opponent svill shoot first. The one who fires
first in combat is the Attacker, the other is the
Defender,

2, Roll one dic. If the result is less than or ajual fo the
number of 1.ASERS on the Attacker’s combat
weapon, he has scored a hit: deduct z2sHretos
from the Defender’s combat weapon.

3- Now the Defender retaliates. Roll one die again-

16

If the result is less inant the number oft asERs on
the Defender’s craft, he has scored a hit: deduct 2
SHIELDS from the Attacker’s combat weapon.

4. Continue the combat from step 2 above, until
either your or your opponent's SHIELDS are
reduced to zero (death).

5. If you win the combat, then you may reinstate
the sHIELOS of your combat weapon to their
value before the combat began, since the energy
banks quickly regenerate after a combat. In addi-
tion, if your opponent’s RATING number was
greater than your own RATING, You May increase
yuur RATING by 1 point,

At the beginning of your adventure, you are
equipped with a starship, the Slarspray. A plan of
the Sfarspray is shown on your Spice Combat Street
on pages 20-21. Whenever you are involved in a
Combat-Weapon Clash using the Starspray, you
may use the starship plan to record hits against your
ship {simply cross off the sHIELD boxes to record
hits). Then, if you win the combat, you may return
your SHIELDs to their strength before the combat
began br simply erasing the crosses.

BZ
ADVENTURE SHEET ALIENENCOUNTER BOXES

r
SKILL | | STAMINA LUCK
Initial Inatial Initia!
Sil} = Stamina = | tweck =
|
i=3 i
RATING CREDITS | | OXYGEN
Inifjai = 10 | SUPPLY
| POINTS

Initial ~ 10

oe | a

TOTES ANDITEMS

Stamina =

Stamina =

| Skil = Skit = Skil! =
SLonni2 = | Stamina = Stamina =
|
=
| Still = Skill ~ | Saati —
| Chapters Starmmut = | Stumina =
| | |
| Skill — Shi =
Siar = Stantina = Stanune —
- ] oe cia) 57;
Siiiil = | | Skrif= Skill =

[ Saat? =

Stamm =

SPACE COMBAT SHEET

STARSHIP: STARSPRAY
DATA: 4YHIGHPOWERLASERS
L2FORCE SHIELDPODS

a

L
S

COMBAT WEAPONENCOUNTERS

YOUR VEHICLES:

Rating =
lars >

Sinelds =

ALIENS:
| Rates =

+ Rating =

Lasers =
Shields =

L

lasers =
Shivids —

Lasers =

Sinelis =

Rating =
lasers —
Shiehts =

Sluelds =

Rating =
| Lasers =
Siuelds =

L

Raliitg »
Leisers =
Shivias

2

3
=

:

MISSION BACKGROUND

The name ‘L‘Bastin’, even if only whispered, would
certainly cause the faces of the Ensulvar palace staff
to flush with anger. From poor King Vaax, however,
it would bring an uncontrollable outburst of such
feracity that the employment of a large hypodermic
tranquillizer might well be advisable, for his own
well-being!

Of course, it has not always been like this. In fact
there was a time when L’Bastin, the now infamous
galactic renegade and scourge of Ensulina, had
enjoyed a much more friendly relationship with
your king. In those days, he had occupied a position
of authority and prestige. As Vaax’ major-domo, his
responsibilities had included the employment and
supervision of the king’s entire household staff—a
job which he handled with due skill and diligence
for a number of years,

But then he took up a new hobby — cybernetics and
genetic enginecring —and his attitude changed dras-
tically. In order to pursue his leisure-time activity,
L’ Bastin had to build a laboratory and equip it with
many varicties of cloning, fusing and transforming
hardware, and then buy important scientific pub-
lications. Of course, all of this required a large
amount of money. After running
L'Bastin approached King Vaax and begged for an

22

sizeable debts,

increase in his modest wage; following years of
faithful service, he considered that he had earned it.
Ihe artful Vaax, however, steadfastly refused,
claiming that, in the interests of the national econ-
omy, virtually ne one in Ensulina had been allowed
a pay rise for over two hundred years. To grant one
to L’Bastin, he argued, ‘could set a dangerous
precedent, which would undermine the entire
economy, to the mutual disbenefit of all’.

L'Bastin, who believed that these were merely the
words of a stingy ruler, was infuriated. The econ-
omy, as everyone well knew, had never been in
better shape! In retaliation, the crafty courtier de-
vised a scheme whereby he could obtain the money
he needed for his creditors while simultaneously
causing his ightfisted monarch some mcanyent
ence. The scheme went thus: on the pretext of
maintaining exceptionally high standards of be-
haviour among the palace catering staff, L’Bastin
began dismissing the stewards for fivial misde-
meanours. Upon receiving their marching orders,
these unfortunates were immediately escarted from
the premises and informed that, if they were ever to
return, they would face a speedy execution! In their
place, the wily L‘Bastin substituted creations from
his own laboratory; these obliged their master faith-
fully by investing their weekly wages with him!

After his initial successes with the stewards,
_ ‘Bastin set about dealing with the other palace staff
with equal fervour. The fact that many of his
creations resembled dismissed staff was no mere

23
caincidence, and within a surprisingly short space
of time he was receiving pay packets from chefs,
chauffeurs, guards, groundsmen, and cven the
king's personal advisers and henchmen, all without
arousing the least suspicion.

With his supplementary income thus assured,
L’ Bastin got himself released from debt. Fora while
he contented himself with engineering whimsical
creatures for his own amusement, the spider-fly and
the gigantic fanged armadillo-bodied rhinoceros in
particular were sources of great satisfaction to hint!
Indeed, at that time the chambers beneath his
manor-house fairly teemed with bizarre livestock.
Eventually, however, L’Bastin grew dissatisfied.
The ultimate, the most rewarding experience, he
concluded, could be derived only from the creation
of the perfect life-form — whatever that was. He grew
determined to find out, although accomplishing
the task would consume a considerable amount
of money, and require the acquisition of some
extremely sophisticated equipment indeed - - -

Purchasing a brand-new metamorphosal hydrolizer
‘special’ required an enormous financial outlay —
even more than his dishonest tactics had afforded
him thus far. Another money-making scheme wes
required: L'Bastin ordered one of his henchmen to
pilfer and then pawn a number of palace artworks.
Several antique porcelain vases were first to go,
followed by a crystal statuette (the personal prop-
erty of the king), and a cosmoscope entitled “Birth of
a Star’, Since by now there were few ‘reals’ left

24

among the palace staff, L’Bastin believed that the
thefts would go unnoticed. And they would have,
too, if he had chosen someone other than his
creation, Ben Frumpet, to carry out the crime.

One day, when Ben was in a local pawnbroker’s
establishment, haggling over a suitable price for the
stolen cosmoscope, in walked the rea! Ben Frumpet,
his identical namesake, (The real Frumpet, one-time
head chef, had been unemploved since his dis-
missal from the palace, and had gone to the broker
to hock his gold watch.) The real Frumpet sud-
denly twigged the situation and, after a brief pro-
test, he stunned his facsimile and dragged it off to
the local constabulary.

Thus, L’Rastin’s conniving schemes were finally
exposed; his henchmen were weeded out and the
original staff reinstated. For his crimes, the king
punished L’Bastin severely. After a not-tac-lengthy
trial, Vaax sacked L’Bastin from his post, ordering
his laboratory to be demolished and his manor-
house confiscated. The former major-domo was to
be thrown into the streets!

But L’Bastin, seething with anger, had other ideas.
Clearly, he would soon be forced to leave Ensulina
to continue his work — but first he planned a final
mordant joke upon the king, now his sworn enemy!
Disguising himself as a famous cosmetic surgeon,
L'Bastin visited the king's wife, Broomhilda, olfer-
ing her ‘beautifying treatment’ free of charge;
naturally, Broomhilda accepted. Contrary to his

25
promised beautification, however, the despicable
mastermind played an awful prank upon her: while
she was upon the operating table, he carried out
certain ‘modifications’ to her, extending her nose by
ten inches, enlarging her eyes to the size of small
saucers and discolouring them (one red, one green)
and, worst of all, grafting a large pineapple to her
scalp (sadly, a process not entirely reversible!}. This
cruel act was discovered only when the bandages
were removed a week Jater— and by then L’Bastin
had fled the planet.

Despite the generous reward offered for his cap-
ture, L’Bastin has remained hidden for years. Dur-
ing the past week, however, a bounty hunter has
landed, bringing startling news to Ensulina. Hie
claims to have tracked L'Bastin to Aarok, 2 man-
built fortress-world orbiting the galactic rim. Aarok
was abandoned by ils makers centuries 2go, tollow-
ing a massive radiation spill. Since then it has be-
come the abode of dreadful galactic cut-throats and
varieties of abhorrent creatures, as well a5 meny
eccentric recluses. The bounty hunter captured and
interrogated a mutant, obtaining from it the follow-
ing information: deep within the vaults of Aarok,
L'Bastin has Jong been experimenting on the local
livestock, breeding and refining their better traits,
until recently he developed the “perfect lite-torm he
sought. Rumours say that they ere ternhang dog-
headed superwarriors with brutal strength and
electrifying speed, calling themselves ‘Prefectas ~
L’Bastinis busily cloning an army of them, which he

26

will unleash upon the galaxy. Particularly harsh
treatment is planned for King Yaax and the
Ensulvars!

Fortress Aarok bristles with automatic missiles,
lasers and pulsers, and is surrounded by energy
shields and vacuum mines: at present it is impreg-
nable to invasion by a large force. But, as the bounty
hunter has proved, a solitary craft may be able to
pass through the screens, and land, undetected.
Once down, this lone invader would need to de-
stroy the planet's defence centre, located beneath
the Dome of Marvels, deep within the planct’s
interior. Only by this means would an inyasion fleet
be able to land safely. The task ahead is fraught with
danger, and only Ensulina‘s most skilful agent— you
— will have any chance of succeeding. Knowing thal
failure may cost billions of lives, still you have
accepted the mission. If you succeed, however, the
fabulous man-built world will at last be decontami-
nated and repopulated —and yuu will be crowned ils
sovereign ruler!

Now the time has come for you to leave your home
planet, Ensulina, and travel to distant Aarpkin your
Starship.

Turn to paragraph1

. ee

= oe 4

27
1

After a short rest, you gather your equipment and
board your spaceship, the Sturs~ay, where you
Degin a quick, pre-programmed cauntdown se-
guence. Ten, nine ... the energy banks hum;
eight, seven, six ... thrusters ignite, your seat
judders; five, four, three . . . pulsers roar, a loud-
speaker announces: ‘Dimension hop imminent’,
two, one... Bang! Your home planel disappears
from the yidi-screen; the sky is black and starless.
You have entered a warp-lane. From this lane, you
must steer the Sforspray into another dimension:
one more suitable for rapid galactic travel to Aarok,
Your best opportunities are probably time—space
travel in the 4th dimension, or light—space travel in
the 6th dimension. Each has advantages over the
other; each also hasits dangers. Will you time-travel
(turn to 164), or ight-travel (turn te 15)?

~

—

You feel giddy and close your eves. When you open
them, you find vourselé standing alone in a cylin-
drical tube, ten feet high and four feet wide, As you

Study it, touchiny if) walls, the transmat cylinder

cently revolves. revealing a thin, rectangular open-

ing. Stepping through, you alight upon a long-
spanned causeway located several miles above the

Floor of an immense, oveaid chamber. Around you,

in mid-air, clegant diamond, snowflake and cuboid

lanterns dnft lazily past, mingling neh tinctures of
ochre, magenta and puce. Slender canals and rain-
bow tirvers with fine brides of shining metal leap
3

through spaces, straining between horizons. De-
setted manors, Iuseums, libraries and temples of
fanciful design adjoin causeways, or hover amidst
spectacular floating gardens, wondrous sculptures
and sparkling holograms. You have entered Vault5,
the principal domicile of Old Aarok. Radiation
levels here are still quite high. Miles away to the
north-west, you discern the colourful Dome of Mar-
yels, its base veiled in mist. The planet's defence
centre is installed in Vault 6, directly beneath the
dome. Unfortunately, your causeway Tuns south-
west Lo north-east, passing high to the right of your
target. You deliberate for some time before setting
off, Will you march along the causeway north-east
{turn to 318), or south-west (turn to 202)?

3
All circle-shaped tiles change colour: orange to
green, green to blue, blue to orange. Now you may
step on tile E2 (turn to 350), or tle D3 (turn to 156), or
tile C2 (turn to 278}-

eee — ——

475

4

Rather than making for the entrance, you foolishly
decide to drill your way into the dome, After break-
ing open the globe, you strap the drill-helmet to
your head and ram it into the dome’s metal crust.
Uniluckily, the shell is harder than you had antici-
pated; eventually the drill becomes jammed. Now,
instead of the drill-head revolving, your head begins
to spin, twisting the restol you withit! Ina moment
your body becomes detached from the helmet and
you skittle away, over the rooftop and down to-
wards the dome’s entrance. Youradventure is over,

5

The old man leads you on. He is Marsatu, “An
Ensulvarian by assembiaye,’ he say's, ‘and a trader by
repute.” Pondering the meaning of his words, you
climb a ramp and, skirting a terrace, arrive at the
entrance to his hovering mansion. Marsahu rings a
chime and, after a pause, the door is opened by an
absurd, trout-headed footman, dressed in a scarlet
tunic. Marsatu introduces him to you: ‘This is Bok,
my servant. Bok, we willbe having a distinguished
visitor for supper. Fetch our best porcelain tank-
ards, and warm the mead!’ Bok scuttles off while
Marsatu leads you via a maze of oak-panelled pas-
sages to a roomy, octagonal parlour. Here, you
make polite conversation until Bakreturns, carrying
two large bowls. One of these is filled with a green
liquid, the other with a blue liquid. Marsatu ges-
tures vaguely to you. Will you drink the green liquid
(turn to 155), or the blue liquid (turn to 62}?
6-8

6
Brac’s laser blasts a hole through your buckler and
body armour, into your shoulder. Luckily the
armour absarbed much of the energy. Deduct 4
points from your STAMINA and 7 point from your
SKILL. Brac prepares to fire again. Turn to 1568.

Unsure as to which way oe should go, you finally
turn down a small passage and follow it towards a
bend. At the corner ahead isa high, triangular door
while, just past the door, a large perspex plaque is
sel on the passage floor. You will have to tread on
the plaque if you wish to continue your journey
along the passage. Will you open the door (tur to
74), ar make your way along the passage (turn to
161)?

Your crafi darts and weaves into range, and a burst
of laser fire splashes the Valioog ship- As you might
have expected, the craft has powerlul shields,-and
the attack fails. As you veer away, your cabin ts

g-10

scorched by a heat-gun. Reduce your sHteLvs by 2
points permaitentiy, and deduct 1 point from your
STAMINA. Now you may operate anii-detector sys-
tems (turn to 7o), an image intensilier scanscope
(turn to 215), or computer-scan the enemy (turn to
163).

You enter the space station’s sports complex: a wide
conerete areca containing dumb-bells, parallel bars,
tennis courts, a space-ball arena and much, much
more. Momentarily distracted by the equipment
here, you decide to test your prowess at one of the
2ames. Will you try yourskill atsnooker (tum to 77),

or space-ball (turn to 113)?
£0
The Deik’s shell $ 2 crack and releases a long,

rubbery stalk. At the end of this appendage, the
Deik first forms a small eyeball, which swivels
menacingly towards you. After a moment the eve
collapses and remoulds itself into a trampet-like
mouth. "Oi, four-arms!’ it says to you. ’l haven't
seen you here before. What do va’ think ya’r up to?
Come ere! Will you:

Pretend to be a cretin, and answer

the Deik stupidly? Turn to 139
Act like a rogue, and answer him

arrogantly? Turn to 36
Obey the Deik’s command, and

walk across to him? Turn to 51
ii—12

aI

Saon you are detected by the massive Grant
Archipelayo, which roars forward ta accept your
challenge, At this moment, your computers flash
swith the following tactical data:

Starspray: Pitch —16. , . Roll 22. -- Yaw —31--.-
Enemy: Pitch +35... Roll +60... Yaw +13.--
Relative Distance 7000 - . . Speed 100. . -

Based on this information, will you:

Maintain speed and course? Turn to 205
Accelerate ta 2000, maintain course? Lurn to 360
Maintain speed, yaw —10? Turn to 107

12
The nes Glip turns the red ring ane segment clock-
wise, and charges across the rings to atlack you on
your mechanical grasshopper.
: RATING LASERS SHIELDS
GLir 4 3 5
GRASSHOPTER = 4 710

If you win, a third Glip appears on the recently
vacated spot on the red ring. Scuttlebug then de-
cides not to rotate the blue ring, so he is blocked.
Mutant rotates the yellow ring one Segment ann-
clockwise, and his phase ends. The fourth and final
mave begins, and you still need to defeata Scuttle-
bug to win. Will you rotate the red ring one segment
clockwise (turn to 303), or fvo segments ant
clockwise (Lurn to 361)?

13

13
Inside the cabinet is a live Prefecta, lying on a
mattress of tough, yreen hair. Obviously it had not

anticipated your sudden appearance: it offers no
defence. You beat it insensible and throw it into the
mechanical hopper, where it slides from view.
Then, justin time, you enter the cabinet and pull the
doors shut. Outside there is considerable cum-
motion as the Prefectas search the laboratory with-
out success, Eventually they depart towards the
ait-tube and Vault 6; you decide to stay pul and rest
for a while. Now the only voices you can hear are
those of the three Yappies. The mixture’s ready!
you hear Zap sa¥ after a while. “Now, pump it into
the vats.” For several hours all is silence; in fact, you
sre just relaxing into a peaceful slumber when the
unusual streen mattress suddenly turns upon you:
many ol its hairs expand ta enormous thickness,
damping your arms and legs. Other hairs remain
thin. but grow longer, wriggling up your nostrils
and down your throat. You are almost smothered
by them when, strangely, the hairs retract to normal
13

size. Immediately there is a wild shriek from out-
side: ‘Something's gone wrong! Zap, Brag; eyeball
this!’ Several screams later, the cabinet doors are
flung wide open by Zap. “You!” he cries accusingly.
“Why, oh, why did yar enter the mouldin’ cabinet?
See what you've done? We're as good as dead,
man!’ Looking out, you see what is troubling them:

the bench-tops have all been removed to reveal the ©

wooden incubation vats in which the Prefectas are
erown. However, instead of gazing upon hundreds

of quickly maturing Prefectas, you see hundreds of ©

fast-growing facsimiles of yourself! Of course,
when they are ready they will still behave like
Prefectas {albeit over-salted ones), because of the
unique chemical mix used in their preparation. Brag
waves his arms in despair. “Yeah, the first batch
swon’t feel goad about this! Can’t think for the rest o°
yar, but I'm vaocin’ me way out o’ here, before they
find out.’ Brag rushes from the laboratory, closely
followed by his two comrades. You muse for a
while; deciding that the cabinet is still the safest
place to be, you swing its doors shut again. After a
few more minutes, you hear the new Prefectas
struggling from their tubs. They are even arguing
among one anotheras they wander in a group out of
the laboratory, towards the air-tube. The fun is
about to begin! Turn to 187.

the enemy ship explodes in a spectacular ball of
heat and light. You manoeuvre the Sterspray
through the debris, probing for survivors and
spoils. One item which immediately attracts your
attention is a droid: a spindly chrome robot of
dwarfish proportions. Its three faces have frozen in
terror and it clutches frantically to a buckled wing-
slat. A droid may be a useful acquisition far your
mussion; you pick it up in a mechanical grabber and
pop itinto your ship’s hald. You also spot a cunious
device of iron tubes, glass rods and slate cubes,
Although you are unaware of its function, it looks
very high-tech, so you scoop it up also. ‘l'un to 321.

15-16

15

You manipulate the controls and enter the 6th
dimension in a blaze of colour and sound. In light-
warp, the universe you know is folded upon itselfin
2 complex colour pattern, so that any planet or star
can be reached merely by entering the appropriate
portion of the colour spectrum. It will take only a
millionth of a second ‘real time’ to reach Aarok but
m less than half this ime your spaceship’s elec
trostatic shields blaze with the impact of incom-
img missiles. From a hisher dimension, a huge
red rocket scooler appears. Its rider, a scruffy,
black-tendniled creature, wears a scarlet choker:
the tell-tale mark of a Fahbad Redneck, a gang
of galactic thnll-seekers from the 43rd planc.
The Redneck throttles towards you, making rude
gestures and laughing manically. You must
defend yourself against his lasers and explosive
ram.

FAHBAD
REDNECK RATING 4 LASERS 5 SHIELDSS

If you sin, turn to 41.

16
You follow Zud and his machine through a maze of
corridors, rooms and tunnels before, eventually,
you arrive at his chamber: a small laboratory with
racks laden with bottles, flasks, mirrors and many
indescribable gizmos. Without a word, Zud man-
ocuvres his craft to an old oak desk, where he usesa
long-armed grabber to extract a4 curious metal tube
47

from the top drawer. The tube is sealed; at one end
there is a keyhole. ‘Here, take a doser look! cries
Zud, and the grabber thmusts the cylinder straight at
your chest. Horrifyingly, it merges painlessly into
your flesh; only the keyhole is visible! (Add Zud’s
cylinder to your Adventure Sheet.) Zud is bleating
with delight. Tell right into my little trap he snaps.
‘Oh, don’t worry, the tube’s quite harmiess, really it
is — though what's inside it may not be! Ha, har
After a long-winded cackle, Zud continues. T will
explain: the tube is made of titanium, it’s specially
coated and is virtually indestructible. Have no fears
about losing it—it will not easily come loose, lassure
you! Within itresides my stout little friend, Gnasha.
Unfortunately, I've spoilt Gnasha by feeding him
too much good food; now he will eat only the
choicest metals and, occasionally, flesh. He has
quite an appetite; if you listen carefully, no doubt
you will hear him gnawing at the end of the tube —
the end closest te your heart.’ Zud pauses long
enough for you to verify his statement, before he
continues. ‘How long it will take him to chew his
way out, Tam not sure; it could be hours, or .. a
This is 100 much for you to handle! Furious, do you
tug at the cylinder’s exposed end with all your
might (turn to 79), or hurl a flask of acd at the
despicable Zud {turn to 102)?

17
As you reach the terminal building, you are spotted
by two guards: bony-faced creatures with powerful
meta-blasters,

18—19

SKILL STAMINA
BUG-EYED CORPORAL F 8
SNOUT-NOSED

TROOPER 6 10

if you win, will you hide the bodies in a nearby
ventilator shaft (urn to 309), or immediately enter
the tubeway station and take an air-cammaye into the
city (turn to 397)?

18
there is a squeal as the Brutes are splashed sith the
acd and hop away in pain. Unluckily, you too are
splashed — roll one die and deduct that number of
pots from your STAMINA. If you are still alive,
then, if you have any ointbush leaves, turn to 97;
otherwise, turn to 227.

19
there is a loud blast from the reeds, and you arc hil
by molten steel, plass and plastic. Deduct 3 points
from your STAMINA. With no other choice, you
surrender. Turn tu 252.

20—21

20
‘Righty-ho then, matey!" he sneers. ‘But I'l not have
you joining Captain Big-ears’ ship.” With that, two
burly Rogues climb overboard and attack with laser-

knives and cnide matchlocks.
SKILL STAMINA
BALD-HEADED ROGUE 7 10
FEATHER-FACED
ROGUE 6 10

If you win, turn to 370.

21

Matters are finally sorted out. Marsatu, as payment
for his fare, must eventually hand over to Jym all his
credits. However, since you cannot pay, Jym makes
a diabolical suggestion, ‘I will take you wherever
you wish, if you will entertain me for a while. Can
you juggle?’ he quips. ‘No. Dance orsing? No. Well,
never mind. | have invented a special kind of enter-
tainment for non-payers. Just follaw me.” Jym leads
both of you with your machines into his tower. Ina
circular hall on level X, you find the Roundabout.
The giant snaps his fingers and, apparently from
nowhere, three armoured ruffians appear: a Glip, 2
one-eyed Scuttlebug, and an exotic yellow Aarok
Mutant. The Glip, dressed head-to-toe in red battle-
armour, is mounted ona six-legged red animal; heis
holding a stout electro-lance, His companions wield
an assortment of javelins, lasers, and imertia-less
chains. Jym faces you. “You must play a game of
Galactic Joust on my Roundabout. These three war-

22-24

riors, and perhaps a few others, will be your adver-
saries. In order to win, you must defeat each of
them. Now, you must enter the Roundabout upon
your mechanical beast, and | will explain the niles.’
With no alternative, you obey. Turn to 48.

22
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 231; if you
are Unlucky, turn to 366.

23
Dodging the enemy fire, you attack the gigantic
falioog mothership’s single weak spot. Luckily,
you are so close to the ship that it has trouble
bringing many of its lasers to bear upon you-
STARFIRE
VALIOOG RATINGS LASERS4 SHIELDS10

If you win, turn to 226.

24
Your victory is short-lived, as the treacherous Mar-

satu knocks you down with a short club. ‘Ha, ha!” he
scoffs. "You fight well for a “real”, but you're so
Stupid! He blows into an cnormous whistle-ring
encircling one of his fingers, and three more Pre-
fectas appear. Thave brought the spy along myself,’
he informs them. ‘Now, let's go and see L’Bastin!’
The Prefectas seize you and take your weapons.
Deduct 4 point from your 5KILL. ‘Yes,’ they laugh.
‘Let's visit Bastin’ They touch the obelisk, which
wobbles aside, and you are dragged below, through
2557

amaze of corridors and halls. In one room Marsatu
waves his arms. ‘This was, until recently, the de-
fence centre, crammed with complex computer sys-
tems, But my creator, L’Bastin the genius, dedded
that it would be safer to move the computers lo
another location. So you see, yOur mission wes
futile from the first!’ [um to 75.

25

After some time spent wandering about, you come
upon a large, arched tunnel on your left and decide
to follow it, Same distance along, you notice a black
metal ring embedded in the cciling- Will you step
beneath the ring (iurn te 2), or will you pass it to one
side, and continue on your way (turn to 7)?

26
Smoke belches from a pipe in your craft. Several
violent manucuvres take place, and when the air
finally clears, the Deik appears behind you. Your
stinger slashes at his ship, Dutis blocked by a shield.
Retaliating, the Deik extends a “spiker’. You may:

Turn to 372
Tum to 176

Pull ona wire

Touch a sensor disc

Close your eyes and push, pull or
kick any control you touch furn i 264

27

With a loud snap, the quill breaks off. Unluckily you

have woken your guard, who scullles over ina Tage.

‘Sol it cries, six claws on hips. “Thought you'd

28

escape, hey? Well, this'll keep you down!’ Seizing
a big stone, it knocks you unconscious. Your
adventure is over.

During vour furious foray with the robot, yau
smashed several large acid botles whose contents
dripped on to the floor. The acid has now vaten a
hole in the metal plates, exposing two rooms and
part of a passage beluw. These seem to provide the
only war¥s to escape a hungr-blob which has sud-
denly appeared at the doorway. But before you

leave, you have time to look over and grab two of
the following items.

tibia bone

robot's metal arm
acid bottle

jar with pickled brain
grease-pun
hypodermic syringe

When you have chosen two items, add them toe your
Adventure Sheet. Now, will you jump through the
hole into the first room (turn to 274), or the second
room (tur to 124), orinto the passage (tum to 173)?
29-30

29

As ¥ou prepare to board the strange bell-ship, the
spider-craft closes in. Using a flame-cannon, its
rider engages you in a fearsome fire-fisht.

PREFECTA SKILL § STAMINA &

If you win, you must climb into the bell, as the
sivamp-yachtis now speeding towards you. Turn to
So.

30

You search the body and find a small titaniurn cube
in his pouch; you take it. The creature stuck to the
pillar now calls again to attract your attention. Will
you use the red liquid (turn to 324), or Lhe blue {turn
to 189), to wash the sticky stuff off him, or would
you preter to blast away the pillar to which he is
attached (turn to 373)?
36-39

36
The Deik is unimpressed by your arrogant riposies,
and orders several heavies to teach you a lesson in
good manners! Two gigantic Hulks jump over the
bar and lumber towards you, broken bottles in
hand,

SKILL STAMINA
BIG HULK 7 10
EVEN BIGGER HULK 5 14

Even if you win, you have been momentarily
stunned. Turn to 72.

37
Your tactics prove disastrous, as the bell-craft fills
with mud and sludge through the open hatches.
Within a short time, you are smothered.

38
You lean over to examine the plate, but stumble on
to it, You seem to be falling for an eternity. Your
adventure is over.

39
Thick green smoke swirls across the room, through
which the monster leaps towards you-

GREEN GIANT SKILL 8 STAMINA 10

If you win, turn to 50.

40

qo

You re-enter the Starspray — to find an enormous,
vety angry, very hungry-looking blob awaiting you.
Since you know that your own weapons are not
effective against blobs, you may make use of any
items you possess to defend yourself; using the
table below, add up the points for any of the follow-
img items you have in your possession. Then re-
move those items from your Adwoture Sheet, as they
are devoured by the blob!

POINTS
flare pistol 1
chain
compressed-air canister
wrist-watch
cub
chewing gum
tbia bone
robot's metal arm
acid bottle
jar with pickled brain
erease-gun
hypodermic syringe
electrostatic inducer
Same torch
oxygen cylinder
ieminex sheet
3D pictoscope
wiscous negator
chair
Slancmange

Bees PN eR NR ee ee po ee ft
40

carving knife
lex of mutton
teapot
cinnamon stick
snooker cue
dumb-bell
cricket bat
medicane ball
skipping rope
darts

pot plant

straw berrics
shovel
seed-killer
broom

plastic hose
wrench
hammer

sonic screwdriver
fire extinguisher
multifacetous aciduator
ball-bearings
revolver

peak cap

poison

can of beer

axe

box of cigars

Now WN me ot ON ON te eh Nt et Nd et tt

li, before using any items to attack the blob, you
have less thon 13 points in total, tum t 297; other-
wise, turn to 232.

41

41

The Redneck slams into your starship’s tail which,
luckily, is still protected by shields. Prudently you
decide to exit light-warp prematurely, to examine
the damage, before continuing. Back in ‘real space’,
the damage appears to be slight: a few smouldering
pods are quickly extinguished, and a blood-streak
on the port retro easily removed. This time, you
decide to continue in the less dangerous ¢th-
dimensional fime-warp. However, before you can
adjust your controls, you notice ahead of yau a
monstrous black hulk moving silently across the
stars. Do you wish to enter the time-warp (turn to
164), Or examine the mysterious shape ahead (turn
t0.137)?

42-44

42

‘Correct! You have passed the first trial. Now pre-
pare for the second.’ The strange man fades away as
2 massive arm appears in the sky above, carrying a
mighty glass fortress. [tis the same fortress the Deik
was pawing earlier — although it did appear some-
what smaller then! The castle is placed in the field,
and the arm departs the sphere. Then, with a loud
rattle, the drawbridge is lowered and a fearsome
multi-armed beast, many times your size, steps
forth. Was this the flea-sized creature you had seen
before? Haughtily it steps towards vou, twirling an
zssortment of battleaxes, swords, maces and flails.

SKILE STAMINA
SWORD ARM 8 4
MACE ARM 8 6
FLAIL ARM 6 8
if you win, turn to 201.
43

Uniuckily, you are spotted by a Valioog light-fighter
captain, who commences an attack run.

LIGHT-
FIGHTER RATING6 LASERS2 SHIELDSB

if you win, turn to 23.

+4
You brace yourself as the Sfarsprey skips across the
water, somersaults and, with a heavy splash, sinks
45~46

to the bottom of the lake. Deduct 3 points from your
STAMINA. With precious little ime, you abandon
the cabin and, exiting through an escape hatch,
swim to the surface. A trail of foam and a lew
bubbles are all that remain to mark the gravesite of
your spacecraft; by the time you have swum fo
shore, even these paltry signs have vanished. It
seums that your adventure has already ended in
disaster. Turn to 117.

45
Reduce your oxygen supply by 3 paints, and deduct
1 point from your STAMINA. Farkin, anlidpating
your blow, springs forward and head-butts you-
Bursting for air, will you:

‘Try a strangle-hold? Turn to 280
Elbow his stomach? Tum to120
Try a waist-clinch? Turn to 95

46
You break open the sphere and push two ol your
hands into the heavy steel power-gauntlets. Then,
intending to grip the sides of the dome and damber
down tothe entrance, you activate them. One of the
gloves is faulty, however; it immediately curls itself
into a useless, clenched fist, from which you cannot
withdraw your hand. Furthermore, the switch is
broken, so that the gloves power cannot be turned
off! You will require a laser-saw to cut the gauntlet
away — but meanwhile you have the use of three
hands only. Deduct 1 point from your SKILt

47-48

However, using the other glove, you still manage
to wriggle down the dome’s side towards the en-
trance. Marsatu is wailing for you. Turn to 363.

47

There isa small explosion beneath yoursphere, and
your stinger slashes wildly through the water. As
you sink towards the lake-bottorn, the Deik’s
grabber rips the key from your hull, and he releases
himself. A moment later, your lungs fill with water.
That's your lot!

For this game, refer to diagram 2 on the inside front
cover, You enter the central (ivhite} platform of the
Roundabout. On the outermost (red) circle stand
your three adversaries (in the positions shown in
the diagram). ‘Now,’ announces the giant, ‘the
rules are simple. You are on a white circular plat-
form from which you must nef move. Before you are
three rings: red, blue and yellow, each divided inta
twelve segments. Built upon some of these seg-
ments are screens (shawn in black}. The screens are
high and you cannol see over them. It is possible at
times for etther yourself or your opponents te rotate
the coloured rings, with their screens, in a manner
which I will now describe . . -’

1. The game is conducted in moves, each of which
consists of four phases.

2. Durning phase 1, you control the red ting; you
must rotate it (and your opponents on it) either
one segment clockwise or two segments anti-
clockwise. Your phase then ends.

3, During phase 2, Glip controls the red ring; he
must Totate it one segment clockwise or one
segment anti-clockwise. After doing 50, he will
check his position: if he has an unobstructed
(screen-free) line of sight to you, he will charge
across the rings and attack. Lf, however, his path
is blocked by a screen, his phase ends.

4. During phase 3, Scuttlebug controls the blue
ring; he must rotate it either one segment clock-
wise or not at all, Again, if after doing so he has
an unobstructed view, he will attack. Otherwise
his phase ends.

5. During phase 4, Mutant controls the yellow ring:
he must rotate it one segment anti-clockwise.
after doing so he has an unobstructed view, he
will attack; otherwise, his phase ends.

6. If you destroy an enemy, another warrior will
appear on the red ring, in the same posifon as
that just vacated.

. The game ends victoriously for you only if you
destroy at least one of each type of enemy. If you
have not destroyed at least one of each typeat the
end of a move, you must begin the next move
from step 2, above. However, you have a maxt
mum of four moves 10 complete the game; other
wise, you will automatically be obliterated.

~)

Giant Iym Ego drops a spotted handkerchief. “Let

49-51

the game begin!" It is your phase first. If you have
the ionic sphere, tum to 199; otherwise, turn to 345.

49
‘Ha¥ says Bric to Brac. "What did I tell you?’ Turn to
59-

50

The gas finally clears. You take the titanium cube
(the only item of interest you can readily pocket),
and press a stud on the chair to raise the gate, as
there are no other exits from the room. Next, you
listen for any sounds before climbing out. But un-
luckily you are jumped on by the two Brutes, who
had been waiting silently. The man in the white suit
and his cat are standing near by, watching the fun!
Turn to 287-

51

The Deik’s shell now springs side open, revealing
the clammy creature: a large, purple blotch. Con-
torting itself ike dough, the Deik extends an ugly
face with many eyes and nostnis, one large pointed
ear, and several beaky mouths. A rubbery arm also
appears and twines itself around a nearby curio: a
small glass fortress imprisoning a flea-sized beast.
the Deik eyes you suspiciously before squawking at
you. ‘Look, lads, seems like tonight's contestantis a
volunteer! Ha, ha! fell me: if you win, what will you
claim as your prize? Came now, don’t be bashful!
You may choose anything from my collection!’
Somewhat benumbed, you reply in a weak voice
52-53

that what you would like is the Bulb-headed
Bicephalon’s brain. ‘Ha!’ cries the Deik. T should
have guessed old Zud would send another one for
it. Thought you'd steal it from night under my
noses, ch? Well, I'll give it to ya’ — if you're vic
torious. Take him to the Sphere of Three Inals!’ A
heavy-pawved Ogre-oid drags you to the floating
orange sphere. ‘Every night for over an “undred
years contestants ‘ave gone into this ‘ere ball,” it
sneers, ‘and ev'ry one of ‘em’s been done over. Not
returned, like. Not only that, but none of ems ever
got past the second trial neither! Ha! Don’t fancy
bein’ in your shoes" With a shove, the brute pushes
you through the sphere’s thin membrane, which
re-svals around you. You are trapped! Turn to 351-

52

You pilot the Slersprey northwards towards Aarok’s
main spacepart at Central City. The city soon
appears; a large blue-walled fortress shimmering in
the dawn light. But suddenly a red beam streams
out from ane of the city towers, scoring a direct hit
on your craft. Your port thruster is pierced-
Although it does not explode, you will have to
crash-land somewhere short of the spaceport. Will
you veer towards a black swamp in the north-west
(turn to 154), or towards a purple deseri in the
north-east (turn to 84)?

53
You take the Ixian‘s laser-rifle. Add 1 pomt te your
SKILL, Now you may try to open the hatch by

54755

turning the handles in any combination you have
not yet tried — either:

Turn the red handle clackwise, blue

anti-clockwise Turn to 386
Turn red and blue ant-clockwise Turn to 118
Turn red anti-clockwise, blue

clockwise ‘Turn to 192

—

You awaken with blurred eyes and a terrible
headache. Deduct 1 point from your STAMINA. You
are alone and so, after a short wait, you go in search
of your hosts. Leaving the pariour, will you follow
the passage left (turn to 326), or right (turn to 284)?

55
You are confronted by a gruesome, twisted monster

with a long green head and clawed arms extending
om its cheeks. Smashing the window-shutters, it
seizes you and flings you, head first, into its gaping
mouth. Your adventure is over.

56-57

56

With a judder, you re-enter “real space’ in the Calib-
rowi solar system: a sub-system of fifteen planets
inhabited by millions of life-forms. Not far away
resides the heart of the system: the ruby-red dwart-
star, Calibrow. But now the sun appears pale and
faltering: the Valioog ship is already plundering its
energy .. . Within a few moments, you locate the
ship: 2 long, thin vessel, just to the right of the sun.
Will you switch your craft into a computer-
controlled attack nin (turn to §); activate additional
anti-detector shields {turn to 70); switch off
thrusters and glide into allack range (turn lo 123); or
attempt a computer-scan of your enemy (turn to
263)?

. ’ rH - = ’

57

The tetrahedron is made of glass and is about six feet
hish: it is floating, a foot above a triangular black
base-plate upon the floor, There is a glass door in
the prism’s side. You may enter the prism by the
door {turn to 224), examine the base plate (turn to
38) or, if you haven't done so already, approach the
distant manor-house [turn to 142).
58—60

58
Glip now tums the red ring one segment clockwise,
creating a free path to you. Brandishing his electro-
lance, he charges on his armoured sieed into your
flanks. You are unable to bring all your laser-cannon
to bear on him in time.

RATING LASERS SHIELDS
GLIP 4 3 8
GRASSHOPPER ~ 3 10

Ifyou win, another Glip appears on the vacated spot
on the red ring. Scuttlebug this time decides not
io rotate the blue ring, but still he cannot attack.
Finally, Mutant rotates the yellow ring one segment
anti-clockwise to end his phase. The fourth and final
move begins. You still need to destroy a Scuttlebug
to win, Will you rotate the red ring one segment
clackwise (turn to 310), or two segments anti-
clockwise {tum to 361)?

39
‘Wrong!’ replies Bric, and blasts you to atoms.

60
At the end of a passage, you enter a small, cuboid
room which obviously serves as the space station’s
laboratory. Upon wire racks in the centre of the
room lie a pile of bones, while to one side stands a
spindly, silver robot. ‘Gotcha!’ it grates as it grabs
you with three multi-purpose arms, Tm this star-
slation’s automated pathologist. Let's see what

61-62

makes you tick!’ With unnerving strength, the rabot
hurls you on to a wire rack and swivels onc of its

tinsnip claws towards your throat. Youmust defend
yourself!
ROBOT

PATHOLOGIST SKILLS STAMINA R

If you win, turn to 28-

61

You take a sip. Ugh! Tt is putrid. Your hosts burst
into fits of laughter. ‘No, no,’ Marsatu says at last,
‘that is foot ointment!’ Now understanding, you
remove your boots and place your feet in the soath-
ins: liquid. Marsatu does likewise with the green
liquid. while Bok serves you both a tankard of hot,
spicy mead which tastes delightful, After refilling
2nd draining your mug several more times, you roll
ty the floor, beaming a foolish grin, With paralysis
creeping on, you close your eyes and drift int» a
jolly dream, while the night outside passes slowly
and quietly. Turn to 54.

62

You reenter ‘real space’ and examine your
spaceship. The fungus has grown to enormous size,
covering most of the starboard thruster and part of
the firselage. It has also changed lo a light blue
colour. You may decide to leave the ship and cut it
off (hrm to 244), or search fora planet and, passing
through its atmosphere, burn it off (turn to 213}.
63-64

63
You hear the Prefectas enter the laboratory, After a
casual search, they depart in the direction of the
air-tube, and Vault 6. You decide tostay putand rest
for a while. Fifteen minutes later, you notice 2
chemical sludge entering the bench through a side
port, farming a pool around you- Itis slightly acidic
and burns your skin. Deduct 2 points Tom your
STAMINA. You now realize that you are in one of
the tubs used to manufacture Prefectas. But the
mixture in your vat will never form properly. .-A
while later, you hear the newly congealed, over
salted Prefectas struggling from the other tubs.
They are arguing among themselves even as they
leave the laboratory, going in the direction of the
air-tube. It seems that the fun is about to begin! Tum

to 187.

A heavy, grinning robot appears, then exits through
a large hatch. But at this moment, the bell-craft is
struck by an electrical charge. Circuits fizzie and
spark, and the hatch is jammed wide open, allowing
two Prefectas, in combat uniforms, to storm the
ship. You must fight!

65-68

SKILL STAMINA
PREFECTA SERGEANT 8 10
PREFECTA TROOPER 8 §

If you win, will you steer eastwards, while de
ploying starmines (turn to 198), submerge into the
swamp (turn to 37), or order the computer to imple-
ment action plan number 358 (turn to 358)?

65
The old man squeals angrily. Turn to 384.

66
From the cube issues a puff of smoke. Its odour is
making you queasy. During the following combat,
deduct 1 point from your sKit1. temporarily for the
duration of this battle. Turn to 39.

67
You reach for your laser-pistol, but giant Jym Ego is
too quick. He punches you with his mallet-like fist
and sends you sprawling. Deduct 3 points from
your sraMiIna. If you are still alive, you pocket
your dislodged front teeth and stagger to your fect.

Turn tp 21.

68
Quickly you cut a spindly root fram the tree and
form it into a crude lasso. When the spider~raft is
within range, you snare it; it topples forward into
the mud. Unfortunately it also falls on you! You are
squashed in an instant.
69-70

69

With heels smoking, the Mogs bounds across the
deck, into the lake. Its ship, now defunct and glow-
ing 2 curious shade of rose, bursts into tiny embers.
Triumph! Steering back to shore, you are greeted by
the jovial Sam. ‘Superb! Wonderful!’ he cries.
‘Words cannot express my relief. I did not really
believe you would. . .er, Imean, [hadn't expected
your return quite so soon. And now, as a token of
my appreciation, | give you a great treasure: a
fabulous power-jewell’ From a leather pouch he
produces a milky crystal, wrapped in silk. “Take
care! Examine it at arm’s length and squint, or its
rays may damage your eyes.” Bidding you farewell,
Sam hastily disappears into the reeds. What a
strange creature! And what a strange jewel, you
think. It looks just like a piece of common rock-salt.
Curiosity getting the better of you, you draw it
closer and closer. Now you taste it. It is rock-salt!
(Add this to your Adventure Sheet.) Leaving the-.
gardens, vou storm angrily away, back towards the
north-east. Turn to 328-

70
Unhuckily, your altempts to conceal your craft fail,
From the Starfire Valioug, several smaller spike-like
ships are launched. The first of these buzzes in to
attack you.

VALIOOG STARFIGHTER
RATING 5 LASERS 4 SHIELDS 10

if you win, will you scan the starfighter debris for
ee

71-74

valuables, (turn to 260); dart towards the Valioog
mothership at Mach 6 (turn to 369); operate 2 com>
puter-scan, if you have not dane so already {turn to
163); or perform an “‘Ligenvector roll’, to attack
another starfighter from the rear (turn to 320)?

7

With a whoosh of escaping gas, you attach the
Starspray to a circular, concertina air-comdor and.
donning a space helmet, prepare to enter the space
station, Ahead of you, at the extreme end of the
air-tube, is a translucent, semi-ovoid air-lock which
begins to rotate slowly as you approach. Will you
enter the airlock when it is in a horizontal position
{turn to 382), ora vertical position (turn to 209)?

72
‘Test your Luck. H you are Lucky, turn to 25%, if you
are Unlucky, turn to 139.

73
All square-shaped tiles change colour again: orange
to green, green to blue, blue toorange- Will you step
on tile E1 (turn to 68), or tile D2 (tum to 3)?

74
The door opens, and a long, wispy-stey thread
shoots out at you. Your limbs tingle and you col-
lapse ta the floor, Deduct 3 points from your
STAMINA. Just in time, you close the door on the
thread, which wriggles and retracts. You decade to
follow the passage. Turn to 264.

75

Eventually you enter a long, crystal chamber, at the
end of which is a cylindrical tank, eight feet high
and three feet wide, mounted on three rubber
wheels. Curling from the tank's base is an enor-
mous ivory horn; pricking into its sides are half a
dozen shiny metal quills. With creeping dread, you
recognize the bizarre contraption: it is a Crump’s
Pasidon Tank, a diabolically efficient torture cham-
ber manufactured by the Questions-and-Answers
Division of the notorious family enterprise, Elmer
Crump & Sons. Many varieties of posidon tank are
in use throughout the multiverses, but the Mark
I¥P model, before you now, operates in the follow-
ing fashion. The intended victim is hound and
immersed upside down in the cylinder’s oily liquid,
Te is able to breathe, speak or scream only through
a rubber mouthpiece and hose, leading into the
ivory horn. Within the oil exist six tiny mechanical
creatures: Crump’s patented tinselfish. Each tin-
———————

78-77

selfish is controlled by one of the metal quills in-
serted into the tank’s side. When the quills are
almost out, the fish are inactive, and swim lazily
around their victim, only occasionally pausing for a
nibble; but when the quills are pushed further in,
they become furious, tearing mercilessly at their
victim with sharp metal teeth. Will your mission
end here? Will you be the tank's next victim? These
thoughts enter your mind as you are dragsed down
the hall towards it, You may wish to lash out at your
captors and attempt a daring escape (turn to 159), OF
will you desist struggling and, hopefully, find the
means to escape later on (turn to 322)?

76

The droid is grateful for your protection. “But! know
that vou alsu are in need of aid,’ it buzzes. Tallow
me, then, for I return to my master in the Jedburg
Caves. He may be able to assist you.” Having no
better plan, you follow the droid for many hours-
Just before dawn, you espy before you a huge wall
of rounded boulders; beneath the wall are hundreds
of cave openings. The droid selects one of these and
leads you inside. Turn to 319.

77 - .
Picking up a cue, you roll the white ball into the
reds, splitting them and knocking a red into the top
left-hand pocket. Next, you aim at an orange Dall,
intending to put it into the centre pocket. Orange
ball? You realize that snooker does not use an
orange ball. Cautiously, you touch the ball with the

78-79

end of your cue, only to see it wobble about and
wriggle up the stick: itis a baby orange blob! Now,
from a comer pocket oozes its mother - a much
larger blob. Breaking away from the table, you
prepare a hasty departure from the hall, as the
mother blob re-forms on the floor and comes rolling
towards you- During your flight, however, you do
have time to pick up any wo of the following items,
which may prove useful later on.

snooker cue
dumb-bell
cricket bat
medicine ball
skipping rope
darts

When you have chosen twoitems, add them to your
Adventure Sheet. Now, will you flee on an exercise

scooter (furn to 266), or slide down a transit pole
(hurn to 103)?

After remaining hidden for several hours; you leave
the shaft and take an unoccupied tube-car to the
city. You pass by many stations before disembark-
ing. Turn to 323-

79
Try as you may, the cylinder will not budge. After a
pause, Zud continues, “Or, as | was saying, itmight
take Gnasha several days to break put. But 1 know
that IT wouldn't want that tube buried inside me
Bo-81

when he escapes, no sit! No doubt you wouldn't
like it either. Well, this is your lucky day! My
generosity knows no bounds; J also have a key fo
remove the evlinder. 1 will offer you both keys you
require in return for, er, a small task | would like you
to perform for me.” Will you help Zud (turn to 270),
or do you prefer to throw the nearest flask af acid at
him instead (turn to 102)?

So

You climb into the strange bell and close the hatch.
lis pilat now appears: a very old humanoid with
green and grey striped skin, and leaning on a cane.
Silently, he ushers you into a control cabin where,
on a vidi-screen, you watch him fire a laser-cannon
at the swamp-yacht. After a short mélée, the yacht
retreats, trailing a cloud of smoke, and the pilot
returns to you. ‘Heh, heh! Haven't had so much
excitement in years! But allow me anintroduction:!
am Rhiv, the caretaker,’ Rhio is an Aarokian, one of
the original inhabitants of the planet. Tic had been
left behind, more than three hundred years ago, to
look after the world until the radiation levels had
reduced and the Aarokians could retum. Unluckily
the race was decimated by a space plague, and now
only Rhio is left. ‘But I'm notlong for this world,” he
continues. ‘Soon will die and our race willend - - ~
Tum to 179.

81
Epicurien the Torturer pounds his fist into your
chest again. This time he notices the tube. ‘What's

82

this— valuable, I'll bet! Well, I’ relieve you of it this
instant.’ He pinches the cylinder’s end with a pair of
pliers and begins extracting it from your chest.
Deduct 2 points from your stamina. Eventually,
with 2 forceful tug, the cylinder comes loose, flies
up into the air, and drops down again — plop! —
straight into Epicurien’s back. Of course, it im-
mediately embeds itself in him. ‘What devilish tick
is this,” he screams at you. ‘Aaargh! Aargh!’ He
tums a somersault in anger. You can hear Gnasha
finally break his way out of the tube; Epicurien’s end
is mercifully swift. When Gnasha has finished its
meal, it hops to the ground. ‘Ah, titanium, my
farourite meal! it says. Wishing to take advantage of
the situation, you say ¢nticingly, ‘Come over here,
then. I've got some nice titanium chains I will
allow you to partake of!" Tes! your Luck. If you are

Lucky, tum to 330: if you are Unlucky, turn
to 181.

82
Your lasers scorch the Grand Archipelayv, but cause
it only superficial damage.
Starspray: Pitch +54... Roll +32... Yaw +13...
Enemy: Pitch +35... Roll +60... Yaw +13..--
Relative speed 2000 - . .

Will you:

Maintain speed, pitch +62.5, roll

—20, ¥aw 37-5? Turn to 98
Maintain speed, pitch +50, roll —50? Turn to.177
Halve speed, maintain course? Turn to 366
83

83
The inn is large, dingy and dirty, and so are its
occupants, a wide variety of ragues and scoundrels
from all over the galaxy. At a drinking-pit, @ scar
faced, one-eyed Oc is fingering a silver knife and
evilly viewing a gang of five-eved Tuffits; by the
wall a solitary Grey-hulker drains a keg-sized tank-
ard, then devours the tankard and orders another, 4
couple of Jellimen wobble towards the bar — every-
one steps out of their way; the room is filled with
hyperactive pickpockets, and you must continually
check your gear. This is no place for the squeamish!
Upon the bar is a large, clam-shaped shell: it is the
Deik himself. The shell is closed and appears to be
asleep. Amidst the throng, the Deik’s wondrous
and wide-ranging display of antiques and curios Is
scaltered — many of them having been bolted to the
flour or set with alarms. A number of the objects are
(juite bizarre and they attract your attention: several
good-sized tapestries; a lange orange sphere hover-
ing in mid-air; a heavy brass gong; a Man-sizee

84-85

candle; and, of course, the crystal decanter contain-
img the Bicephalon’s preserved brain. You dare not
approach too close to the decanter vet for fear of
zTousing suspicion — 50 will you move over to the
Drass gong (turn to 214), or the candle (turn to 365),
or tum towards the drinking-pits instead (turn to
301)?

84
You brace yourself as the Sturspray skims over a
dune crest and plummets into a valley of sand and
2sh. Deduct 2 points from your STAMINA. After a
orief reconnaissance, you gather your equipment
2nd depart on foot towards the distant city. Turn to
376.

85
You grapple with the demented man, but he dies
m your arms. Now, locking the drone to your own
ship, you prepare to leave. First, however, you
may go through the belongings of the deceased.
You may choose any two items from the following

mt
in

revolver

peak cap

poison

can of beer

axe

box of cigars
When you have chosen Gyo items, add them te your
Adventure Sheet, then turn to qo.
ii | th i,
ta 1 ih,

86—-8o

86

You follow the pillar down into the next level. To
your dismay, you realize you haye entered a hot
chamber, crowded with many more cobalt rods —a
reactor core! The radiation here is extreme; it strips
your armour of its pan-dimensional abilities. ‘Thus,
with your head and arms protruding from a metal
rod and bombarded by neutrons, your adventure
abruptly ends.

Roll one die. If vou roll t or 2, turn to 335; if you roll 3
Or 4, turn to 352; if you roll 5 or 6, turn to 64.

88

Although you must part with the spectron projec-
tor, you do find a flask of strong acid [in fact, this is
the bandit’s homemade drink!)- Add it to your
Adventure Sheet. The toady creature is is grateful anc
leads you to a secret passage running beneath the
outer walls of the city. With a wave goodbye, you
dive into the well-lit tunnel and continue on. Turn
to 323.

The passage leads into a large, rough cavern littered
with stalactites and stalagmites. The entire area is
the same green colour as the horrible vapour you
noted earlier. Many of the pillars are twisted and
have grotesque figures around their bases: arms,
legs, tentacles, claws and wings all protrude.
Obviously they were once real creatures which have
90-91

been covered with a sticky green substence that
drips from the roof, Near one pillar, you hear a
moan, Investigating, you find a hairy, bulb-eyed
thing chained against the pillar. The sticky stulf
covers most of his face. ‘Help me, before it's too
late,’ he pleads. “[here are pits in the floor filled
with liquid. Use it to wash this offme, pleasct There
are indeed pits in the floor: some filled with red
liquid, and some with blue liquid. Just as you are on
the point of asking the creature which you should
use, a white-haired old man creeps up behind you,
and gives you a push with his staff. Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, turn to 308; if you are Unlucky, turn
to 256.

epee r a

= .
The polarizer malfunctions; an ominous burst of red
light streams from the device and runs through
your entire craft. Your adventure 15 over, a5 you
receive an instantaneous, lethal radiation dose.

g1
Krill returns. ‘Follow me, your spacecraft is at the
cave’s entrance.” The sight of your ship, looking as
good as new, delights you- Krill chuckles, T putit
through a time-Ivop, so thatitnever crashed; in fact,
it was never even struck by a lightning bolt! Now,

92-93

perhaps you will do me one courtesy before you
leave.” He explains that his people plan to attack the
Delphon craft in the evening, and that you cowd
help them greatly. “The interferometer will im-
mobilize their ship for only a short time, Ifwe do not
destroy them quickly, then they will try to take off,
in order to bring all their guns to bear on us. If this
happens, we would need vou or someone like you
to make an attack on them in your spacecraft and
force them down again.’ You agree, and Krill pives
you an ear-twinge: a small, conical device which
clips on to your earlobe. “Wait here in your
spacectaft, and attack when I give vou the appropr-
ale signal’ Turn to 313.

g2

The toady creature points out to you the heavily
barred entrance to the strange dwelling. In a short
time, you cut the bars and enter a dim passage.
Suddenly, you hear a high-pitched whine from the
darkness ahead. Will you kneel down and draw
your laser-pistol (turn to 183), or brace yourself,
ready to throw your electro-jayelin (tum to 220)?

93
As you turn the handles, a metal panel in the
passage slides open, and a heavily armed creature
springs from the niche. It is short, stubby and
roughly humanoid, except that it has no head or
meck: an Lian! Three colourful bulbous eyes,
mounted on its chest, glare at you asit mocks, ‘Can’t
read signs, eh? Well, danger is what you've found.
94-96

‘Time to die, four-arms!’ A light-bolt sizzles past
your head as you dive to the floor, drawing your
pistol.

XIAN

If you win, tum to 53-

SKILLY STAMINA 6

You exit the room and mun down the passage, with
Zud in close pursuit. Peculiarly, his machine
jumping and jerking crazily, not entirely obeying
his commands. Obviously, you must have injured
the Bicephalon’s brain when you stepped on it. But
the machine still manages to catch up with you. Too
late, you turn to fight it, as a heavy pan-headed
weapon swats you against a wall. Your adventure ts
over,

95
Suddenty Farkin whirls around and flips you over
his shoulder, Crashing to the ground, you are help-
less as the gangster rips your chest open with his
powerhul clawed legs. Your adventure is Over.

96
\With a wrenching screech and a splitting of stones,
the Slarspray falls heavily on the shingles. Its nose-
cone digs deep into the bank, the ship cartwheels
and, with a smack, comes lo Test beside a large tree.
Deduct 4 points from your STAMINA. Even worse is

to come: you stagger from the escape hatch only just |

in time, as the tree, angered by the appearance of

97-99

your craft, seizes it with an enormous gnarled root,
and hurls it far out into the lake, It seems that your
adventure has already ended in disaster. Turn to
117.

97
Hastily, you wrap your wounds within the soothing
leaves. The ‘oint’ performs properly, and you re-
cover all the STAMINA points you just lost duc to
the burns. Dr Strangething, stil up on the clock

cower, now’ calls to attract your attention. Turn to
221.

Your craft is burned by an acid spray. Reduce your
SHIELDS by 1 point permanentiy.

Starspray: Pitch +g. . -Roll+82...Yaw—18...

Enemy: Pitch35...Roll +60. . . Yaw +13.
Relative speed 20x) - . -
Will you:

Maintain speed, pitch +5, yaw —13? Turn ta 269
Maintain speed, pitch —10, roll +60,
yaw —18?

Turn to 336
Halve speed, pitch —15. yaw —13?

Tur to 366

Now, all dircle-shaped tiles change colour: orange to
ercen, green to blue, blue to orange. No square tiles
change colour. Next, will you step on tile Az (turn to
273), or tile B2 {turn to 309)?
100-101

i00
The new Glip tums the red nng one segment clock-
wise and charges across the rings into your flank.
You are unable to bring your laser-cannon to bear on
him in time.
RATING LASERS SHIELDS
GLIP 4 3 8

GRASSHOPPER = 3 40

if you win, then, once again, another Clip appears
on the vacated position on the red ring, Scuttlebug
rotates the blue ring one segment clockwise, then
Mutant rotates the yellow ring one segment ant-
clockwise. The third move ends. Next, will you
rutate the red ring one segment clockwise (turn to
106}, or two segments anti-clockwise {turn to

299}?

104

As you head away from the wharf, your engines are
badly damaged by a heat-gun, firing from the tube-
way building. Wobbling precariously, you steer the
craft over the high blue wall of Central City and
crash-land in an overgrown park. Enemy svout-
ships appear in the sky above, and you leap towards
2 fight of steps leading to a subway station. Here
you take an old underground monorail carriage into
the heart of the city. Eventually you abandon the car
and head off along a broad, triangular passage.
Turn to 323.
102-103

102

A direct hit results, and Zud melts in an instant.
Unfortunately, try as you may, the cylinder will not
budge. Deduct 1 point from your STAMINA
through exhaustion. Recklessly, you search the
room for a key. You find hundreds of them -
although none secms to fit the cylinder’s lock. De-
jectedly, you depart, to continue your mission,
belicving that nothing can save you from an evil
fate. Turn to 7.

103

You proceed via several passages and air-elevators,
until you reach a drone launch-away tube. Within it
is a spherical, iron-clad drone, suitable for carrying
out minor repairs on the station. You enter the
drone and lock its hateh; then, placing the crail on
manual control, you launch yourself into space,
gradually manoeuvring towards the Sierspray. Sud-
denly, you are distracted by a moan coming from
behind the drone’s console. Then a bony-faced man
appears, only half conscivus. ‘Heh, heh! he coughs
at you. “You, | bet you're a blob, aren't you? You
nasty great jellybean! Well, 1 may be the last of the
crew, but you can eat me, too—if you care to dic: I've
poisoned m’‘self!’ He swings an old revolver in your
direction. You must defend yourself.

LUDO KLUDWIG

If you win, turn to 85,

SKILL 7 STAMINA 4

104-106

104
Pulling out this book activates an electronic trigger,
which sets one of the knick-knacks into motion. ltis
2 multi-eyed security robot. lt whirls towards you,
blurting out a message, ‘Intruder alert! Intruder
alert! Shoot first, question later!’

SECURITY ROBOT

If you win, you may remove a book which you had
not previously examined:

Poets of the 57ih Century

Baba‘s Book of Homemade Wines

SKILLQ STAMINA 4

Turn to 355
Turn to 395

105

Reduce your oxygen supply by 2 points. Your chop
stuns Farkin, but he maintains his smothering hold.
Will you:

Neck-chop again? ‘Turn to 45
Try a bear-hug? Turn to 207
Knee-kick Fog Farkin? Turn to 120

106
The Glip tums the red ring one segment anti-
clockwise, and charges along a clear path into your
flank.
RATING LASERS SHIELDS
GLIP 4 5 t
GRASSHOPPER = 3 1D

If you win, a new Glip appears on the vacated spout
107-108

on the red ring, Next, it is Scuttlebug’s phase. He
decides not to rotate the blue ring. Turn to 222.

107

Your ship is gunned by a frost-ray. Reduce your
SHIELDS by 1 point permanently. Your screen now
sugeesis:

Starspray: Pitch +19 ... Roll +82... Yaw —8.--
Enemy: Pitch +35. .- Roll —60...- Yaw +13...
Relative speed tow - .

Will you:
Accelerate to 2000, yaw 3-5? Turn to 148
Maintain speed, roll 105, yaw 5? Turn to 203
Maintain speed, pitch 20, yaw 5? Turn to 399

108
Outside is a beautiful blonde Delphan sprite, wear-
ing a dress of gold, crystals and glass, Her eyes flash
towards you, paralysing you in the doorway, Her
hands grasp a chain, restraining two hormible beasts
with long green heads, mouths in their foreheads,
and clawed arms extending from their cheeks and
thighs. The monsters are drooling and snarling at
you, but the sprite quietens them. “Hush, my
beauties!’ she whispers. “Your bellies are full of
manflesh already. I’ve a better use for this one.”
With that, she approaches and touches you hghtly
on the temples with her forefinger, then on your
cheeks and thighs. ‘I am Schaine the sprite,” she
says. ‘I see you are a sceptic, you do not trust to the

109-110

power of magic. Well, soon now, you will.’
Laughing, Schaine turns and leads her beasts away
into the gloom. Your paralysis begins to wear off,
and you return, stiff-legged, to the confines of the
hut. In the moming you feel a little uneasy, as
lumpy nodules have appeared on your cheeks and
thighs, and your forehead is cracked and bleeding.
Do you wish to leave the village via Spitflak’s Street
(turn to 760), or further investigate the buildings
during daylight (turn to 380)?

nny
Your shield lowers and you are struck by a great
mattock: your sphere cracks and flounders. Sinking
below the Deik’s craft, you can clearly see the key
attached beneath. In a final attempt to retrieve it,
will you:

Kick a foot lever?
Punch your ship‘s contral panel?

Turn to 47
Turn to 338

110

You made it! You step off the tiles, which revert to
their original colour pattern, and Dr Strangething
follows your path across. Then you both enter the
elass prism and are whisked away to the surfaceand
find yourselves close to the manorhouse. Dr
Strangething nosy points a tentacle at the clock
tower's face. “There is the cursor,’ he says, ‘dis-
guised as one of the clock hands. Ingenious, yes?’
The tower is smooth, black granite, but the doctur,
employing the suckers on his three tentacle-legs,
411-132

besins to climb, while you stand guard at its base.
After perhaps a quarter of an hour, the doctor
reaches the clock-face, and begins to prise one of the
hands loose, At this moment, two Brutes suddenly
appear around a corner, You may dive to the
ground and laser them (turn to 35), leap at them
with your laser-sword on Maximum power (turn to
127), or, if you have any, hurl a flask of add at them
{turn to 18).

ii
Brac chortles, as Bric shakes his face ruefully. Turn
to 59.

112
Your cabin flashes with the sparks of a delta-ray.
Deduct 2 points from your STAMINA.

Starspray: Pitch +21-5 - . - Roll +122...
Yaw +1y.5. - -

Enemy: Pitch +35. . . Roll+60...
Yawt33.. -

Relative speed 1000. - -

1143

You may:
Maintain speed and course Turn tu 22
Maintain speed, pitch +2.5, roll
+), Yaw =37.5 Turn to 135
Halve speed, pitch +30, roll +5 Turn to 347

113

Standing in the space-ball rink, you hurl the egg-
shaped ball hard against a wall, from which it
rebounds with increased velocity. The ball bounces
at obscure angles; at times you must dodge and flip
dear of its path. You survive for one minute and
twenty seconds in the rink, before the fast ball
becomes too dangerous; so you decide to step out-
side. During the time you were in play you were hit
only twice: deduct 2 points from your STAMINA,
The result of your game is a score of sixty points
(eighty seconds equals eighty points, less two glanc-
ing blows of ten points each). Sixty points would
put you just outside the ‘professional’ category: a
good result indeed. Now, will you turn your hand
to snooker (turn to 77), or exit the gymnasium via a
sloping glide-away passage (turn to 103)?
134-117

114

Quickly you gather your weapons and flee across
the desert in the direction of the towering Central
City. Fortunately the spiders do nat follow (in fact,
your tracks are soon covered by a desert sand-
storm}. After a few hours, you stop to rest beneath a
large sun-cactus, not noticing in Gime the large
Scorbeetle you are sharing the shade with.

SCORBEETLE SKILL 6 STAMINA 8
if you win, turn to 377-

115

Before youcan stop them, the Yappies rush from the
laboratory and raise the alarm. Youcanheara heavy
thud as a squad of Prefectas approaches. With little
chance of defending yourself, you decide to hide.
There are two alternatives; you may hide inside one
of the wooden benches, the tops of which will slide
back to allow easy access (fur to 63), or you may
prefer to hide in a metal cabinet (turn to 13).

116
You are severely beaten, but you recover all but 2
STAMINA points lost in the fight. You also have a
broken wrist—deduct1 point from your skiLt. The
man in the white suit, Woderwick, now approaches
in his bubble-car, chains you to it, and drags you
away. You lapse into unconsciousness. Turn lo 237,

117
For a while you sit disconsolately upon the bank,
pondering your fate. Then, unexpectedly, you
118-120

observe, wading from the lake, the three-faced
droid you had scooped up earlier. lt is carrying the
high-tech device you could not make sense of. The
droid passes into some trees, the rim of a broad
forest, and is lost ta view. You may wish to follow
the droid {turn to 261), or swim out to your ship to
salvage some of its contents (tum to 302); or you
may decide to set off up the vale, hoping to find a
village and obtain help (turn to 344)-

118

Disconcertingly, a small hatch in the ceiling clicks
open, Tevealing two lamps: one red and one blue.
These focus a purple heat-beam on you, shriv

your skin as you beat a hasty retreat back along the
tunnel. Deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA. You
decide to lonk for an easier entrance to Vault 2. Turn
to 238.

119
At the door, you trip over and acadentally put your
foot right through the Bicephalon‘’s brain, belore
departing with it. Although several critters chase
you, you easily outdistance them, and return to
Zud’s chambers. Tum to 1209.

120 .
Reduce your oxygen supply by 2 points. Farkin
topples to the ground, with you falling on top.
Now, at some advantage, will you:

Try a head-lock? Turn to 268

{21-123

Tr¥ to punch him in the eye? Turn ta 95
Tit him with the pommel of your

laser-sword? Turn to 357

121
From the Valioog’s portals, a cluster of vacuum-
bomb torpedoes are launched, Test your Luck. IF you
are Lucky, furn to 342; if you are Unlucky, turn to
359.

122
Quickly you cut a spindly root from the tree and
make a crude lasso from it. When the scooler is
within range, you snare it, sending it spinning inte
the mud. But its riders, two quick-witted Prefectas,
leap from the saddle and engage you in an achon-
packed fire-fight.

SKILL STAMINA

SCOOTER PILOT 7 8
SCOOTER TROOPER § $

if you win, turn to 280.

123

After a while, the ivory hofn blows no more-
Marsatu, believe it or nof, now appears a little

reticent, perhaps ashamed for having murdered his
creator. But he notices you glancing at him. ‘What
are yuu Staring at?’ he snaps, peeved. He shoves you
off balance; you stumble against the cell bars and are
vaporized.
124-126

124
You pass into a storage room which is filled with
electronic gadgetry, gas cylinders, flame torches
and many other usehil pieces of equipment. A noise
makes you spin around and to your horror you
discover a blob slithering through the hole behind
you — the remains of a spacesuit still clinging to its
tacky surface. You must vacate this room ~ but first
you just have time to grab two of the following
items, which you may find useful later on.

electrostatic inducer

flame torch

oxygen cylinder

laminex shect

3-D pictoscope

viscous negator
When you have settled on two objects, add them to
your Adventure Sheet, then you may exit through a

round aperture in the opposite wall (turn to 379), or
climb a ladder to the level above (turn to 9).

14
You have come perilously close to the huge space-
ship, At the last moment, you swing your own
craftinto a desperate manoeuvre to avoid collision.
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 206; if vou
are Unlucky, turn to 383.

126
Untuckily for you, the blob’s superb driving skills
enable it to dodge your abandoned vehicle. Just as it

126

is about to pounce on you, you nolice an open
side-hatch through which you fling yourself into a
long chamber. It is filled with shelves containing
food, eating and drinking utensils, and hundreds of
tables and chairs: the space station’s main refectary.
The blobis close upon your tail as you run tow ards a
revolving doorway at the other end of the room
(blobs can’t get through revolving doors — you
hope!). You barely have time to grab a couple of the
following items as you run.

chair

blancmange

carving knife

leg of mutton

teapot
cinnamun stick

Choose two items and add them to your Adventure
Sief. When you reach the revolving daor, will you
swing itclockwise (turrto 9), oranti-clockwise (turn
to 103}?

127-128

127
Both Brutes scream and charge at you with meat
cleavers and sumitars.

SKILC STAMINA
RED-NOSED BRUTE ; 14
WARTY BRUTE A §

if you win, turn to 221.

128

There is 2 huge blast overhead as a nuclear mini-
charze explodes. Deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA. Hastily, you abandon the crippled ship,
and jump into the swamp. Luckily, Central City is
now only a few miles away. Even closer tsa concrete
launch wharf, with a hover-ship moored alongside,
and a tubeway building. A group of actopoidal
dignitaries have recently disembarked from the
ship, and are making their way towards the build-
ing. Will you approach the building (turn to 17), or
the hover-ship (tum to 211)?
129

129
Zud is delighted. At a command from him, his
machine's grabbing arm retrieves a key froma secret
compartinent, unlocks Gnasha‘s cylinder, and o-
tracts it from your chest. (Remove Zud’s cylinder
from your Adventure Sheet. ) Next, the arm snatches
the Bicephalon’s brain and inserts it into a small
black box beneath Zud’s leather seat. Another
Bicephalon brain, old and withered, is taken out
and thrown to the floor. Zud now sncers conte
fuously at you. ‘I need the brain to control this
machine, for it to understand my commands and
obey them. My own withered body is naturally
quite useless, and the machine carries out all my
fiinctions, even helping me to speak and breathe.
As the old brain was tiring, I needed another one
quickly, and now I've got it! Ha! 11] show you just
how strong Lam now, by crushing you like 3 fix™
The machine rolls forward, raising a 2 metalarm. Will
you diye towards the open doorway (turn to 94), or
jump on toa desk and draw your laser-sword (turn
teh 151)?

130-132

130
Epicurien the Torturer works on you all day, extract-
ing information piece by agonizing piece, until you
lapse mto unconsciousness, never to awaken
again.

131
Reduce your oxygen supply by 3 points, and deduct
1 point from your STAMINA. Althaugh your idea is
sound, Farkin had anticipated this. He kicks the
pistol from your hand, just as yau are about to fire,
Will you:

Try a neck-chop? Turn to 105
Try an upper-cut? Turn tu 45
Head-butt Fog Farkin? Turn to 207

132
‘Wait!’ you cry, breaking open the sphere and offer-
ing them the headsct. ‘If you don’t blab, I'll give you
this!’ Luckily for you, the Yappies have never seen a
headset before, sa they stay to examineit, First, you
place it on Zap’s head and tune it in to the funkiest
radio-station in the galaxy. [he other two soon take
their turns in listening. ‘Wow!’ cries Zap. ’Cool,
man-thing!’ shouts Brag. ‘Rock my cosmic marbles!
says the third, slapping his companion’s paws.
‘This is terrifico! OK, we'll keep the beat box, and
you can space outo’ here.” You vacate the laboratory
a5 quickly as you can, and return to Yault 6, where
vou hide in a yentilator shaft. The fun is about lo
begin! Turn & 187.
433-135

133
Test your Lick. If you are Lucky, turn to 157; if you
are Unlucky, turn to 27.

134

Tleat is ‘solid’ in the 17th dimension, 50, rather than
Killings the warrior, you have merely tied it up in a
mass of long, silvery laser-cords! Now you have
leisure ta examine the basement in some detail. You
walk around the walls, now and then sticking your
head through ta see what is beyond. There also
appears to be another level below the basement. Lf
you wish to examine this, turn to 86; if you prefer t
pass through a wall into another room, furn to 174.

135
You are caught in a pulser beam. Reduce your
SHIELDS by 1 point permarientiy. Now, your
situation is:

Starspray: Pitch +54.., Roll +82... Yaw —35---
Enemy: Pitch +35... Roll +60... Yaw +13 --.
Relative speed tov...

136-137

Will you:
Maintain speed, pitch +20? Turn to 366
Halve speed, pitch + So? Lurn f 312
Accelerate to 2000, pitch +50? Turn to 269

136
The crew manage to repulse the attackers after a
fierce struggle. But your ship is crippled and must
soon put you down to lighten its load. Turn to 32.

é

Ahead of you rears the dark hull of a gigantic
revolving space station. Peculiarly, itis emitting a
series of radio signals which, apart from a distress
code, you are unable to interpret. You decide to
dock there, but as you approach you are confronted
by a lightweight auto-drone. The drone’s function
is to protect the station from intruders such as
yoursclf!

ALUTO-DRONE RATING 6 LASERS 4 SHIFI.DS7

lf you win, furn to 72.

138

138

One of the most useful tricks you have learnt is how
to feign death. Now, you hold your breath, slow
your heartbeat and lower your body temperature so
much that you do indeed appear stone dead! The
spider-guard is almost as mortified as you are. ‘No,
this can’t be!’ it squeaks, ‘I didn’t hit him that hard!’
The spider performs a wild dance of frustration,
before scuttling off to summon it: c»mpanions.
These arrive shortly and slit open your cocoon tu
check your heartbeat. ‘Tool!’ one of them says to
your guard. ‘You keve killed him! Now we'll have
to cat him before he’s been properly stewed; that
delightful, subtle flavour will be lacking! Bah, when
the Queen finds out, you'll suffer for it!’ After a
struggle, the guard is overpowered and dragged
underground to a horrible fate. Mercifully, vou
have been left alone — and free! Tum to 114.

139

139

Durnng, huh? you reply ina daze, as the Deik calfs
you over again. Now he is furious. ‘So, we've gat a
moron te contend with, eh? OK boys, show him the
door!’ Two brutish Hulks appear from behind the
bar, seize you and beat you insensible, before
throwing you out. Deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA. ‘And you'll stay cut, if you know what's
ood for yer!’ With Gnasha gnawing away inside
you and no hope of recovering the Bicephalon’s
brain, your fate seems sealed, Dejectedly, you de-
cide to forget about Zud and his task, and continue
with your own mission — while you have time. Turn
to 7-

1q0—142

140

You continue for some distance past arched pass-
ages and iron-bound doors. Then suddenly you
hear a noise behind vou: two bubble-cars are
approaching. The first contains a purple-skinned
man in a white suit, stroking a three-eved black cat.
The second car holds fyo green-skinned Brutes
with long noses and thick, pudgy hands halding
dubbers: long poles with mechanically operated
vwood-and-leather cudgels on their ends, Bach Brute
is protected by a suit of banded iron. When they see
you, the man in the first car yells: “You there, halt!
Master and Wodenvick command!’ The two Brutes
leap from their vehicle. Will you try to outrun thern
(turn to 339), or kneel in the passage and shoot at
them {turn to 287)?

i14i
This manocuyre showed real flare! Turn to 206.

142

You hear music coming from a room in the manar,
so you creep toa window and peer inside. You see a
strange, purple-skinned man dressed in a white
suit; he is sitting ona stool and daintily plucking the
strings of an electric balalaika. Beside him, on a
cushion, is 2 three-eyed black cat. Your vicw is
partly obscured by a window shutter, and so you
hear, but do not s¢e, a door open to one side of the
room. From this a gruff voice speaks: We've looked
everywhere, boss, but cannot find it.” The purple-
skinned man glances at the cat and then back to the
45 144

door. ‘Send for Epicurien, then, and we'll soon
know,” he replies. The door slams shut. Now, will
you approach the front entrance (turn to 239), or, if
you haven't already done so, approach the nearest
tetrahedron (turn to 57)?

143
After a moment, there is a bright flash to your left.
Several Vahoog starfighters are incinerated in 2
massive fireball, and even your own craft is dam-
aged; reduce your SHIELDS by 1 point permuarientfy.
Will you now commence a strafing run on the
Yalioog mothership (turn to 369), remain at distance
and scan the enemy craft {turn to 215), or risk
switching on the nuclear accelerators (turn 10 292)?

‘Wonderful!’ Sam exclaims. “You see, L" Bastin sent
a diabolical creature, a Kanberran Mogs monster, to
killme. ltwould have got me soon, too, but for your
generous offer of help.“ Sam now leads you toan old
iron barge hidden among the reeds. The Mogs
monster dwells on a barge, somewhat similar to
this, in the middle of the lake. If you take this boat

145-147

out now, you may catch it unawares. Of course, |
would do this myself except, well, I lack the heart
tor fighting. It was not built within me, so to speak!’
Somewhat flustered, you heave your craft into the
lake, preparing for your assault. Tur to 353-

145

You board an unoccupied tube-car and leave for the
aty. Unluckily, you meet another carmage coming
down the tube from the opposite direction. There is
a terrific blast as the two vehicles collide, and you
are thrown forward. Deduct 4 points [rom your
STAMINA. Ina daze, you scramble from the wreck-
age, along the tube and into the city. Turn to 323.

146
The lasers crackle, and the water beneath Mags’
ship sizzles and steams: you fired too low. Mogs
prepares to retaliate as you adjust your aim.

RATING LASERS SHIEI.DS

MOGS’ CUTTER 9 3 10
YOUR OLD
BARGE = 3 7

If you win, turn Lo 69.

147
‘You lazy, fat thing! you yell back. ‘I hope you're
eaten by your queen; | bet your father was!’ Un-
luckily for you, the last comment is indeed true. The
spider is most infuriated, and beats you to death
with a rock.
148

Your ship is scarred by a scintillating, mult-
caloured ray. Reduce your sHitips by 1 point
peranentiy,

Starspray: Pitch +36.5... Roll —112---
Yaw —

a oe “Pitch +35... Roll +fo...
Yaw +13. .-

Relative speed 2000...
You may:

Maintain speed, pitch 17-5, roll 112,

yaw —5 Turn to 336
Halve speed, pitch 2-5, roll 30 Turn to 366
Accelerate to 4000, pitch 5 Turn to 248

149-150

149

As you touch the hemisphere, a coloured streak of
light shoots from it towards the floor. The light-ray
sradually forms into a little holographic creature
who, strangely, begins to recile the ship’s battle
procedure plans. The hemisphere is obviously an
information storage bank. You listen for some time,

. and finally,” recites the little creature, ‘action
plan number 368: suicide strategy, employing a
ten-megaton bomb.” The holograph disappears, As
the hemisphere may provide you with useful in-
formation later on, you wrap itup and put itin your
pocket. (Add the ionic sphere to your Adventure
Sheet.) Now if you have nat done so already, you
may examine the multi-armed robot against the wall
(turn to 304), orthe unmarked wooden crate (turn to

255).

=I

150

Glip now tums the red ring one segment anti-
clockwise, but his path is blocked by a screen,
Scuttlebug rotates the blue ring one segment clock:
wise, and he too is foiled. Finally Mutant turns the
yellow ring one segment anti-clockwise, but his
phase ends. The third move begins. Will you rotate
the red ring one segment clockwise {tum to 58}, or
two segments anti-clockwise (turn to 153)?
151-152

151
‘Rise!’ commands Zud to his machine, intending to
climb on to the desk and seize you. Surprisingly,
however, the craft responds by jerking around
crazily, Spinning like a top, and trying to climb the
walls — obviously you must have injured the
Bicephalon’s brain when you trod on it. Before Zud
can sain control, you try a command of your own:
‘Fold!’ The machine immediately responds, by col-
lapsing to the floor and folding its peculiar metal
arms and legs. Then itsparks and seizes up entirelr,
trapping Zud. He is in a rage as you search his
chambers, looking for a plan or key which will help
you to gain access to Yault 2. Uniuckily, you find
neither, so you steal a bottle of acid in payment for
all your troubles {add this to your Adventure Sheet),
and depart the chamber. Turn to 25.

152
The bow] you are standing in fills with fire. You
dance a not4oo-merry jig, as does Dr Strangething.
Deduct 5 points from your sTAMINA. Eventually
the fire dies down. If you are still alive, you may
continue through the passages. Turn to 200-

153

153
Glip now turns the red ring one segment clockwise,
and has an unobstructed path. Aiming an electro-
lence, he charges on his armoured steed into your
rear. You are unable to bring all your weapons t
bear on him in time.

RATING LASERS SHIELDS
GLIP 4 3 8
GRASSHOPPER ~ 2 10

If you win, another Glip appears on the vacated
segment on the red ring. Next, Scuttlebug rotates
the blue ring one segment clockwise. Finally Mutant
rotates the yellow ring one segment anti-clockwise,
and the third move ends. Now, will you rotate the
red ring one segment clockwise (turn to 106), or Gyo
segments anti-clockwise (turn to 299)?
154-156

154

The Starspray jerks to a halt in the swamp, smoke
steaming from the damaged port engine. Aban-
soning your craft, you wade through the thick ooze
cowards a gnarled tree, half a mile distant. Just as
you reach it, you spot an enormous triangular ship
=pproaching from the city. It hovers over your own
craft, picking it up on a tractor-beam, and releasing
Shree small scautcraft before departing. The
scoutships, a rocket scooter, a long-leaged spider-
set and a swamp-vacht, are ridden by broad-
nouldered, dog-headed warriors: obviously
efectas. Ther are searching the sivamp for you;
the scooter and the spider-craft are heading lowards
your free. Will you attempt to fight the spider-craft
turn to 68), capture the scaoter (turn to 122), or
chmb the tree (turn to 165)?

{ft

ey

155

You take a sip. It seems pleasant enough, quile
refreshing in fact. You begin gulping greedily until
Marsatu, overcoming his astonishment, knocks the
Sow from your hands. ‘No, no!’ he exclaims, ‘thatis
Sof ointment. You have just poisoned yourself!
Suddenly, your stomach cramps, your mind swirls,
and you pass out. Deduct 4 points from your
Stamina. If vou are still alive, tum to 54.

156
Sreaking open the globe, you recover the jet bools
nd try them on. Then, lighting their fuses, you wait
or the spurt of flame to rocket you skywards.

= Wwe
157

Unforhinately the boots are faulty. One is sluggish
and drifts left; the other, though leaking badly, is
much faster and pulls right. Por a minute you leap
and flip dizzily through the air, out of control. Then,
when you manage to steer yourself downwards and
land beside Marsatu at the dome's entrance, one of
your boots explodes. Your legs are badly burned.
Deduct 4 points from your sTAMINA. Marsatu,
whose cloak has been singed by the accident, is
furious, ‘Look at my robe. It cost me four credits,
and now it’s useless!’ Screaming insults, he beats
you repeatedly with a short staff until, finally, he
calms down. Turn to 363.

157

As you had hoped, the quill belonged to a brown-
tailed Raccoot, a creature found in huge herds on
Aarak. The quills contain powerful acid; now you
PuCil to good use by dripping it on to your bonds.
Although you singe your fingers (deduct 1 point
from your STAMINA), you successfully break free
and rush at the dozy spider-guard-

SPIDER-GUARD

If you win, turn to 114.

SKILL 6 STAMINA S

158-159

158
Brac’s laser fires and misses you, but you jump left
and roll into Bric’s line of fire. ‘Now just you wait,
Brac,’ savs Bric. ‘How do you know he'’sa. - - vstirx
SE tsanngyx _. ” After a moment's buzzing, Brac
moans. ‘All right, ask him your question, Bre,
but T bet he doesn’t know~’ Now Bric pipes up,
Stranger, if friend you be, answerus; whois Heacl?’
Will you answer:
Brac? Turn to 111
Rhio? Turn to §9
Jabob Neror Chintifox the Third,
(the bugey’s maker, whose name
is stamped on a metal plate on the

front fender)? Tum to 49

The bell-craft’s spherical computer? Turn to 194

159
You punch a Prefecta in the face and twist yourself
free. But another Prefecta, quick toreact, produces a
160-161

stun-stick, which he whirls at you, knocking you
down with its powerful electrical charge. Deduct 2
points from your STAMINA. Marsatu cackles: “You
sce, it ib futile to attempt to escape from my wise
master’s creations.” The Prefectas pick you up
ayain, and you proceed along the hall. Turn to 322

160
The street soon becomes a dirt track which, by the
middle of the afternoon, peters out altogether. For
the past few hours you have been heading through
rugged ashlands towards a ndye of red moonstone,
bordering the valley. You are beginning to doubt

that you will ever get out of the valley, let alone off

this miserable planet. . . Eventually, however, you
clo reach the ridge and rounding a rocky jut, dis-
cover a forking path. One trail leads left towards a
Sputy ridge (turn to 354), the other twists night (tum
to 307); or you may wish to work your way along the
base of the hill (turn te 375)-

161
As you step on to the plaque set in the flooz

mysterious ficry letters arise from it

<IMA4V* AVITVAZ VIVA

A voice translates: ‘Central Vaults Ahead.” You may
wish to copy the letters on a piece of paper, and
remember the words, as they may be useful lateron.
Then you continue along the passage. Turn to 241.

162-163

162
At a single command from its owner, Zud's
machine knocks the pistol from your hand, picks
you up by the heels, and metes out a sound
thrashing. ‘Sheer insolence!’ Zud rebukes. “You
cannol! defeat me, as you now plainly see. So, will
vou help me?’ Mourntfully, you agree. Tur to 345-

163
After a moment, your visual display console flashes
with the messase: “Weak spot located on enemy

Dort retro vent 5°. Do you wish to examine the
Valioog’s port vents using the image intensifier
scanscope (turn to 215}; switch on an anti-delection
device, if you haven’t done so already (tur to 70};
switch off thrusters and glide towards the enemy
tum to 121); or dart towards the Valiong at Mach 4
164

You manipulate your ship's controls and enter the
gth dimension. Outside, colours swirl and clash as
you time-warp towards Aarok: it will take about six
minutes ‘real time’ to reach the planet. After iwo
minutes, however, you notice a fuzzy purple blotch
spreading over your starboard thruster. it is some
kind of space-weed which is growing rapidly in the
fertile time-varp energy field. lf it is allowed to
spread further, it may choke the thruster and de-
stray your spacecraft; on the other hand, a prema-
ture jump int» ‘real space’, which would enable you
to cut the fungus off, could also prove perilous. So,
will you ignore the fungus and continue towards
Aarok (turn to 346); or exil the time-space warp, in
order to Jeave the ship and cut the growth away
{turn to 62)?

165-166

165

Most surprisingly, as you attempt to climb the tree,
a siren sounds anda huge bell-shaped vessel thrusts
itself up from the murky swamp. Onits top, aniron
lid slides open and a voice calls beckoningly to you:
Fioi, yoi hoi! This way!’ Peculiarly, the Prefecta in
the spider-craft remains at a distance, cackling pro-
tusely. Do you wish to escape into the bell-ship
(turn to 29), or try to capture the spider-craft (turn to
68)?

166

the man im the white suit, Woderwick, and the
three-eyed black cat have been watching the fisht
trom the safety of their bubble-car, Now Wodenvick
screams, “Those widiculous cweatures! Well, [ll
show him.” Wodemvick aims a cone-shaped device
2t you. Many scintillating, rainbow-coloured
strings branch out from it, hitting you and knocking
you unconscious. Turn to 237.
167-168

167
You dash along a sloping passage, buf are pursued
by a faceless defence Cyborg — which catches up
with you in no time at all. Now you must defend

CYBORG SKILLS STAMINA 10

if you win, turn to 173.

“
he

=

WHEE)

a
“a Ms

Id des
. ips f

168
Alas! replies Marsatu. ‘Though | would dearly
wish it otherwise, lama businessman by nature. As
such, [cannot return your money in whole, oreven
m part.” Jym is growing irritated, “Come on, then!
lime is money, and my time is valuable. Shell outor
dear off You will have to attempt to sweet-talk
ym into helping you for free (turn to 195), or fight
him and try to operate the Roundabout yourself
turn to 67).

169-170

169
When you arrive at the launch wharf, you abandon
your craft. You notice that a group of octopoidal
dignitaries have disembarked from the hover-ship
and are moving slowly towards the tubeway build-
ing, flanked by lion-masked guards. Will you
approach the tube station (turn to 17), or the hover-
ship (turn to 212)?

1760
Passing before her bow, you fire the lasers at the
wheelhouse. A direct hit results, smoke billows,
and molten metal flies in all directions. Mogs.
screaming with rage, appears on deck, to leap be-
hind a twin-bartelled laser.

RATING LASERS SHIELDS

MOGS' CUTTER 9 2 10
YOUR OLD
BARGE = 3 -

if you win, tum to 69.

1
~
;

171-172

171

For hours now, the lumps on your cheeks and

thighs have been growing. Suddenly you pass but,

25 spasms of pain rack your body. When you

swaken you find you have mutated into one of
Schaine’s hideous creatures. And she is leading you
by a chain into the vast, crystal spaceship! Your
adventure is orer.

172
Your ship is hit by a salvo of air-torpedoes. Several
crew are killed, and you are pierced by shrapnel.
Deduct 6 points from your STAMINA. If you are still
alive, turn to 329-

173-175

173

The passage tapers down until it is less than four
feet in diameter, then ends abruptly at a Groular
door secured by a security lock, Luckily for you,
lock-picking was one of the skills you acquired atthe
space academy, so in very little time you open the
door and enter an octagonal, rubber-floored room.
Within, you finda numberof motorized trolleys and
outlandish three- wheeled sconters: obviously they
are designed to carry the space station's heavy
equipment from one place to another. Intigued,
you climb aboard a scooter and examine its controls.
But you are distracted by a slobbering noise from
behind. ‘turning, you are astonished to sce a very
hungry-looking orange blob rolling towards you.
Since blobs are difficult to kill, you decide to vacate
the room at once, using the high-powered scooter.
You switch it on and throttle forward. Will you pass
through the open double-doors ahead of you (turn
tn 219), or through the swinging doors on yourright
(harn to 266)?

174
Finding nothing of note in the room, you climb 2
flight of steps and, passing through a trap-door,
enter the levels above. Turn to 385-

175
You withdraw the quills just in time, and save
L'Bastin. However, Marsatu is more than a little
peeved. ‘He deserves death, and so do you! he
screams. With fists flailing, he lunges at you: but

175

you manage to dodge sideways. Marsatu careers
into the bars behind and disappears in a loud
‘fupff. L’Bastin moans his gratitude. ‘You have
saved me from that oaf, and in happier circum-
stances I would have rewarded you.” You help
L' Bastin out of the tank and explain your mission to
him. “Alas, the defence computers are now beyond
your reach,” he replies, ‘even if you were free. But
the Prefectas can be stopped in another way, which
is this. . .’ L’Bastin explains that, at present, he has
produced only one batch of several hundred Pre-
fectas, although another batch is under preparation
in his vats in Vault 7. ‘The first lot are inypure:
{ accidentally spilt too much of one particular in-
stedient into their mixture. Although they do not
realize it, it has made them haughty, overbearing
end disloyal. If even more of the same chemical was
added to the new batch, | am sure they woulcl
squabble among themselves, probably to our
advantage. Untortunately I have no more of the
chemical left: T sprinkled the last of it on my dinner
several days ago!’ ‘What is the ingredient, then?’
you ask. Tmpure sodium chloride, L’Bastin
answers. Common salt! IF you have any rock-sult,
turn tk) 306; otherwise, turn lo 259.

176-177

176

Your vessel rapidly sways from the path of a Detk
lunge, then counter-attacks with a power-saw,
which bites savagely through his hull. With «
squeal, he cuts your saw blade pole with a steel
snipper. Then his spiker punctures your ship, injur-
ing you, Deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA. Do
you wish to:

Pull a scarlet nodule? Tum to 264
Ring a chime? Turn to 372
Squeeze a red jelly? Tum to 374
177
You close in on the flank of your prey.
Starspray: Pitch =21.5.. - Roll —112- - -
Yaw 19.5 -. -
Enemy: Pitch +35. . . Roll +f. . -
Yaw +13... -
Relative speed 2000... -
You may:
Halve speed, pitch +30 Turn to 231
Halve speed, roll +30, yaw —10 Turn to 22
Halve speed, roll +5, yaw —5 Turn fo 203

178-179

178
You must fight the spiders from a precarious posi-
tion, so deduct 1 point from your SKILL temporanly
during the following combat,

SKILL STAMINA
BROWN SPIDER 8 4
FAT SPIDER 7 4
SPINDLY SPIDER 6 6

if you win, turn to 273.

179
You explain your mission to Rhio. He is most sym-
pathetic and offers tolead you towards Central City;
vou readily accept. Manipulating the craft's con-
trols, he submerges the huge bell and directs it
northwards through the swamp, switching if to
auto-control before reclining into a plush, feather-
cushioned chair. ‘I'm a little fatigued.’ says the
ageing Rhio. ‘I'm afraid the excitement's been a little
too much for me, and [ must rest. However, if you
wish to explore the lower levels of my ship, you're
welcome to do so; you may even find some items of
use to vou. But be careful: some of the equipment
may prove dangerous if handled improperly." His
180-181

head nods and soon he is fast asleep. Will you wait
for him to wake up (turn tv 296), or will you explore
the ship (furn to 492)?

i180
Reduce your oxygen supply by 4 points. Farkin is
loo powerful. You are unable ta break his smother-
ing grip. Will you:

Grope for your laser-pistol? Turn to 132
Try a neck-chop? Turn to 105
Trip Fog Farkin? Turn to 207

151
‘No, thank you!’ says Gnasha. ‘My mother told me
never to accept cold metal from a stranger! Besides, I
aim no longer hungry.’ lt leaves Epicurien and,
bounding across to the door, slips through the iron

grille and departs, leaving you to an unpleasant
fate. Your adventure is over.

182

182

Unfortunately, before you reach Aarok, your com-
municator crackles with the voice of your leader,
King Vaax. “A slight detour, I'm alraid,” he says.
‘Another urgent matter is before us. Within your
vicinity is a Starfire Valioog; you must destroy it
before it sun-homes. That is all! Starfire Valioogs,
you recall, are elusive fighting ships from the s7th
dimension. They are enormous, immensely power-
ful, almost invincible: a fearsome armada in one
ship. Their purpose is to wage destructive war in the
higher planes. They rarely enter the lower dimen-
sions, but when they do, their sule purpose ts to
sun-home. In order to drive their massive cngines,
refurbish draining foree-shields, and restock with
olasma-bolts, Valioogs plunder enormaus quan-
tities of energy from stars, often sucking them dry
and leaving barren husks or empty space behind-
Turn to 56-
183-184

183
The whining ceases, and there is an explosion as an
invisible spectron-pellet explodes over your head.
Deduct 2 points from your STA MIN A. Turn to 243.

184

Lying face dawnwards, you slip through the floor
into the manor’s basement: a high open area with a
heavy stone floor and jutting pillars of cobalt and
carbon. You are on the point of examining a pillar
when a fuzzy black orh attracts your attention. It is
an armoured being of the 17th dimension, and you
have invaded its domain! Luckily, your laser's heat
is effective against il.

RATING LASERS SHIELDS

17th-D BEING 9 2 6
YOUR
POLYARMOUR - 2 9

Tf you win, turn to 134.

185-186

185
Turn to 348.

186

The barge, wobbling slowly, manaeuvres towards
you. Twenty feet above, it hovers, andan enormous
nose, perhaps two feet long, appears over its side,
followed by a small, beady-eyed face. “Ahoy there,
stranger!” yells this creature, the captain. ‘You seem
an able-bodied soul! I'm short on crew; if you come
aboard, I'm sure we could come to some arranye~
ment: your labour in return for a passage to the
distant Gty, perhaps?’ A rope ladderis cast over the
side. Will you climb aboard {tum to 364), or decline
the offer (turn to 20)?

187-188

187

As you had hoped, the two batches of Prefectas, the
old and the new, begin squabbling among them-
selves; soon fighting breaks out, You listen from the
relative comfort of your hiding-place as the two
warring factions charge up and down the corridors,
down the air-tube, through the chambers and
vaults. It is a great while before the sounds of fury
subside. Venturing out, you discover a scene ut
dreadful carnage; bodies of hundreds of Prelectas,
blasted by lasers or hacked to pieces by wicked
implements, are strewn throughout the confines of
vaults 6 and 7. In one roam only do you meet a live
Prefecta; it is badly wounded and will saon die. ‘I
am the last of my race,’ it croaks. ‘What an empire
we could have built for ourselves! My strength ebbs,
but if I am to die, T will go down fighting, as a
warrior! It attacks you with a sharp cutlass.

LAST PREFECTA SKILL6 STAMINA 6

if you win, turn to 400.

More Brutes appear, and one of them takes a pat

shotat you. Deduct 4 points from your STAMINA. If
you are still alive, you are soon overwhelmed and
captured. Turn to 367.
189-191

189
fhe solventis acidic, and burns your hands. Deduct
2 points from your STAMINA. Now, will you use the
red solvent (turn to 324), or blast the rocky pillar
with your laser (turn to 373)?

190
Suddenly a ship appears below. In every respect it
resembles your own craft: it is your ‘shadow’, pro:
duced by the wondrous miracle of technology. The
‘shadow’ veers away, hotly pursued by small
Valioog starfighters and a stick of homing for-
pedoes. Unfortunately, however, the fire in your
rear laser turret has caused a great deal of damage.
Remove the aft taskx from your spacecraft plan
permanenily. Turn to 43.

1g
‘Ya’ he, scint!’ the old man barks, ‘tis not ya’ time.
ha!’ He punches you in the face and pushes you into
your bowl. Several of the inn‘s other patrons, be-
lieving this to be jolly good fun, join in and try to

192-194

drown you in the liquor, before you manage to
overwhelm them and knock them cald. Deduct 3
points from your stamina. Unfortunately, the
fracas has awoken the Deik, who now calls you
over. Will you pretend to bea cretin and answer him
stupidly (turn te 139), oractlike a ropuc and answer
him arrogantly (tum to 36)?

ig2
The hatch explodes, blowing apart not only a large
portion of the passage but yourself as well.

193
Tungsten-Klaw’s grand ship is now very close. Your
situation is-

Starspray: Pitch o... Roll +60... Yawo,..
Enemy: Pitch +35-.-- Roll +60 ee Yaw +13%...-
Relative speed 1000 . ..

You may:

Maintain speed, pitch +35, roll
+120, yaw +13

Maintain speed, pitch —35, roll
—120, yaw —13

Maintain speed, roll —120

Turn to 141

‘Turn to 383
Tyrn to 425

194
Correct?’ Bric replies. ‘What do you - . -?” Bric’s
question is cut short by a suddenly blaring siren,
and you must retum hastily tothe level abave. Turn

to 296.
195-196

195

“Great giant, O most noble Jym,’ you begin, “it
deed you are worthy of a generous fare. No doubt
the Roundabout can only be operated by yourself: 2
character of great skills and cleverness of mind.

Thuh, yep! replies Jym, quite flattered. You go on
grovelling for some time and have almost charmed
Jym into providing a free fare when Marsatu chips
in: ‘Balderaashk! Jym, you are an oaf, and lam tired of
having to pay your toll. You are a scoundrel and 2
Knave to boot, and I have brought this gentleman
along to do just that!” Jym erupts. Turn to 21.

196
You push yourself and slide with increasing speed
over the dome’s sleepening side. You hit the
ground with a heavy ‘thunk’. Deduct 5 points from
your STAMINA. Ina daze you look about you. Not
faraway, snickering at your misfortune, is Marsatu.
Turn to 363.

197-198

197
You pluck a piece of fruit and nibble daintily at it.
Unfortunately, the plant to which it was attached is
most angry at this, and wraps you in its thorny
brambles. You must fight your way free.

BRAMBLES STAMINA 6

if you win, you may decide to cat some strawberries
(turn to 362), or fallow a corridor leading from the
hall (turn tu 103).

SKILL 5

198
On a radarscope, you notice an enemy blip to the
west disappear from view- Another bhp which was
approaching at speed from the north-west also
vanishes after a huge explosion nearby. But you are
injured by flying ylass and metal. Deduct 2 points
fom your STAMINA. Five more enemy ships
appear on the screen: three in the south and two in
the west. The computer suggests that you try one of

the following manocuvres:
199-200

Turn to port and fire an electrical
charge on the shipstothesouth Turn to 185
Dive deep into the swamp Turn to 290

199
You activate the hemisphere, and ask it to compute
your moves, It hums and buzzes, “The most effec
live strategy for you will be to turn the red nng one
serment clockwise on your first move, and two
segments anti-clockwise in all your moves there-
after.’ Turn to 345-

‘Quick and careful, this way!’ yells Dr Strangcthing
as you follow him through the corridors into
another room. The doctor points ahead. “There 5
the way out,” he says gicefully. You see 2 glass
tetrahedron on the other side of the room. “Bul
observe the tiles on the floor in front of us. Orange,

green and blue circles and squares.’ (Refer to dia-
"grant 1 on the inside front cover.} “You must be
careful. There is only one way across. The tiles
change colour as you step on ‘them. Step on the
wrong colour and you will be obliterated, However,
the tattered velhim parchment you have recently
picked up may provide you with aclue.’ Youslepon
the orange square tile Cz, and all the square-shaped
files change colour: orange to blue, blue to green,
green fo orange. The Spee however, do not
change colour. Note that in the fullowirig ordeat, if yor
turn to.2 paragraph which eee nof make sense in context,

then you have stepped om the wrong fle and fave been
lied. Will you now step on tile Ba (turn to gg), tile
C2 (turn to 365}, or tile Dx (tum to 73)?

201

The fortress fades and the scenery changes dramati-
cally. Now you are standing inside a small, trans-
parent sphere, bobbing up and down in the middle
ofa deep lake. Near by. ina similar craft, is the Deik,

fushed red and extremely angry. “So, you passed
the second trial and killed my beloved pet faj! Well,

this is the last part of the contest; you will not find il
so easy! You will note that each sphere has a small
locked hatch. Also, as you see, each has numerous
open vents, allowing water tv enter—we are, in fact,
slowly sinking.” The only way to escape from your
sphere is to obtain the hatch’s key, which is
strapped to your opponent's sphere, and unlock it.
Likewise, the Deik can escape only by taking a key
fom beneath vour craft. To achieve ‘this, both
202

spheres are fitted with a grabbing arm, as well as 2
few weapons: power saws, atom lances, electrodes
and shields, among others. These are operated by
many weird contrals within your craft. The Detk
grins. ‘As we're sinking, I'm afraid there isn't lime
to explain the controls, se you'll just have to do vour
best!’ The cheat! Pulling a lever, the Deik lurches
forward to attack, raising shiclds and probes. At no
small disadvantage, will you:

Ring a silver bell? Turn to 291
Twist a spongy nodule? Turn to 26
Break a mauve crystal? Turn to 234

202

For several hours you follow the causeway: beyona
vsplanades overlooking oceans of space, past apart?
ments with crystal walls and ivory colonnades, over
streams of liquid gold. During all this time, colour
ful lanterns ascend towards the roof, changing hue
and casting smaller, dark shadows across your way:
mid-day approaches. Pausing for refreshment, you
review your position. The dame is now about ten
miles to your north: somewhat closer than belore
but, with your own path continuing south-west
beyond sight, no more accessible. You sigh and,

203

deciding to return north-east, turn your back on the
dome. Nearby, upon a huge glass pontoon, golden
chrysanthemums, white star-dews and crimson
thunderheads bloom upon the banks of a sweetly
smelling lake. How odd! Only now do you perceive
the significance of the immaculale gardens and
terraces you have been passing all morning. They
have all been tended by someone — or something!
Sense-sharpened by this thought, you suddenly
detect a movement amoung the willow-reeds. A
bright yellow eye unexpectedly appears. Almost
simultaneously, a voice screams, “Drop your
weapons, four-arms, or you're charcoal!’ Will you
relinquish your weapons (turn to 252), or dive for
cover, firing your laser (turn to 19)?

203

You are attacked by a small pirate launch which has

been ejected from the Grand Arciipelago’s hold.

PIRATE
LAUNCH

Lf you win, you find that your rapid combat man-
oeuvtes have placed you ona different attack angle
to your target. Turn to 112.

KATING 5 LASERS2 SHIELDS6

204-205

204
In Winsome’s Way, you are comered by a gruesome
Armatilda, which is guarding its nest of fledglings-
lt attacks you with its enormous beak, talons, tusks
and tendrils.

GRUESOME
ARMATILDA SKILL STAMINA 8

if you win, you decide to spend the night in a
descried manor on the edge of the village. In the
moming, you return to the junction with Spitflak’s
Street. Will you search the houses near by (turn to
380), or leave the village via Spiiflak’s Street (turn to
160}?

205
Your ship is jolted by a powerful electrical surge,
end for a moment your lasers and computers mal-
tunction. Reduce your sHtkips by 1 point per-
marventiy. When your computers flicker on, the
folknving data is before vou:

Starspray: Pitch 19... Roll +82... Yaw 18...
Enemy: Pitch +35-...Roll +60... Yaw +13...
Relative speed 1co0.,.,

Now, will you:

Maintain speed and course? Turn te 34
Maintain speed, roll +60? Turn to 135
Accelerate to 2000, roll +60, yaw

18? Turn to 336
206—207

206

Your position, relative to the Grand Archipelago, is:
pitch o, roll o, yaw o: you are directly behind it! You
fire your lasers al ils most vunerable spol, and then
roar away, Several seconds later the pirate’s ship
explodes in ua massive fireball of heatand light. After
a moment's jubilation, you switch back into ime
warp, and continue on to Aarok, and your main
mission. Turn to 279.

Reduce your oxygen supply by 3 pomts. At the last
moment, Parkin raises a leg and pushes vou oft-
balance. Your move is ineffective. Will you:

Try a ‘rabbit punch’? Tum to 4$
Hit him with your buckler? ‘Turn to 357
Trip Fog Farkin? Turn to 120

208=209

208

‘Very well’ the speaker rings out, ’you have re-
quested semi-automatic control of this ship. The
recommendations | put to you arc’:

Spin south, laser-fire south Turn to 348
Spin east and fire-bomb west Turn to 198
Send out an auto-attack robot with a

flame projector ‘Turn lo 87

209

You pass through the ovvid lock and remove your
helmet. The air, although breathable, contains the
faintest whill of rocket fuel: it would seem that there
is a leak somewhere, 50 you must be careful not to
use your laser pistol or sword, for fear of sparking
an explosion. Ahead of you, swaggering around a
bend in the tubular passage, there now appears a
human, dressed in a floppy blue corduroy cap and
overalls; apparently a mairitenance man. Beaming a
broad smile, he leans forward to shake your hand.
‘Welcome aboard the United Star-station Diabolic-
lese. Barty Baxter at ver service!’ There is something
distinctly odd about him. - . In particular, his eyes
210-211

are orange! Will you shake Barty by the hand (tum
to 227), OF, distrusting him, hit him with the pom-
mel of your laser-siword (turn to 300)7

210

You plant your foot firmly on the face of the first
spider; with a scream it loses its grip and falls to the
ground with a thud. But its companions scuttle up
quickly, tving you up in sticky webs. Soon you ate
lowered to the ground and dragyed for miles across
the desert, towards the spiders’ camp, You arnive
there at first light. Tum to 327-

211

Surprisingly, the ship has been left unguarded.
Relaxing behind the control panel, you steer it away
from the wharf. Unluckily, an enemy skimmer-cralt
is approaching af speed.

RATING LASERS SHIELDS

SKIMMER 5 : 8
YOUR HOYVER-
SHIP 4 10

Tf you sin, turn to 101.

212-213

212
With a clear path to you, the Scuttlebug attacks.

RATING LASERS SHIELDS

SCUTTLEBUG 5 2 12
GRASS
HOPPER - 2 10

if you win, tur to 258-

213

There is an uncharted planet on your scanscope, at
2 distance of fventy-six million miles. Setting your
controls for cruise speed, it will take you abaut five
hours to reach it. On the way, you find yourself
suddenly confronted by a broad, silver, sting-ray-
shaped ship which has apparently just materialized
from another dimension. [tis the kind of ship often
used br Pelhon Rangers, a band of misguided galac-
ie vigilantes. You must defend yourself against this
attack.

PELHON
RANGERS RATING5 LASERS5 SHIELDSS

if via win, furn to 74-
214-215

214

As you step up to the gong, you accidentally nudge
2 Red Manchurian, who spills his drink. For his
woes, the long-limbed insect snaps at you with his
mandibles, and hurls you into the gong, Deduct z
points from your STAMINA. The commotion has
awoken the Deik. Turn to 51.

215

Using the scanscope, you visually locate the Yalioog
mothership’s single weak spot, on the port retro
vent. At this moment, your spaceship is struck by
2 plasma-pellet: reduce vour SHIELDS by 41
pint permanently, and deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA. A fire has broken out in the aft laser
turret. Will you activate the extinguishing spray
tum to 240), operate ‘shadou” electronic counter-
measures (turn to 190}, or perform a complex roll
manocur¥re (turn to 292)?
216

216
The doctor continues: “Anyway, what of yourself?
My guess is that you're to be ransomed back to your
family, though you'll probably arrive dead — or in
pieces anyway?" At this instant, a squeaky voice can
be heard from the other side of the door ‘Pieces
enough, it’s certain’ The door is opened, and m
steps a hideous, carpulent figure with a squared-ot
blue beard and its head shaved except for a tiny
‘dyed green tuft on top. Two large tusks protrude
from its mouth. In one hand it holds the cell keys, in
the other a wooden box filled to capacty with
screws, metal knucklers, clubs, prods, probes anc
other devices of torture. ‘lam Epicurien the Inquist
tive, but you may call] me sir! He struts over to you,
puts down his box, and grabs your hair. “Right! lam
curious. 1 have many questions. First, we'll have
your name, your origin, and your intended dest
nation. Then,’ he says, fingering a curved knife,
‘we'll send your family some material proot of your
detention!’ He pulls a chair up next to you and
gropes for an implement in his box, while thumping
your chest with his mallet-like fist. f Zud's cylinder
is embedded in your chest, tum to $1; otherwise, £
you have a sensory capsule, turn lo 229; if you have
neither of these, turn ie 130,

217-218

217
Your vessel is blasted by an atomic tarpedo. Reduce
your SHIELDS by 1 point permanently.

Starspnay: Pitch —54.... Roll=82... Yaw +3...
Enemy: Pitch +35.-- Roll —60..- Yaw +13.--
Relative speed 2000 - -.

You may:
Halve speed, pitch +67-5, tall +30,
yaw —3-5 lurn to 112

Maintain speed, pitch —50, yaw —10 Turn to177
Maintain speed, pitch —52.5, roll

£30, ¥atv $27.5 Turn to 285

218

Sam‘s eyes Hash with red. “Very well, then. Clear
off, or Pi turn wou in!’ Startled by his sudden change
In mood, you step away, returning north-east alony
the causeway. At perhaps fifty paces Sam, now
shrieking hysterically, fires his weapon at you. De-
duct 1 point from your sTAMINA. If you are still
alive, you turn your back and flee. Tum to 318.
219-220

219

You drive through the doors and up a long caus
way, Unfortunately, the blob, which seems intent
on having vou for dinner, is still following, now one
motorized trolley. The creature is a skilful driver
and is catching up quickly. You may wish to aban-
don your scooter and allow it to roll back down on
the blob {turn to 124), or decide to continue along
the ramp (turn to 297).

220
The whining ceases as an invisible spectron-pellet
explodes in the middle of the passaye. Deduct +
points from your STAMINA. lf you are still alive,
hurn to 243,

Dr Strangething throws down the arrow-shaped
hour-hand. “Quick, run! Before you have time to
more a muscle, Wodenvick and Kogo have arrived
in 2 bubble-car, attracted by the commotion. “Ah!
Ah? says Woderwick delightedly. ‘We never
thought to examine the clock. Now the cursor is
ours! Woderwickaims a conical device at you. From
it fly many rainbow-coloured strings which envelop
you and knock you to the ground. The doctor looks
on helplessly from the clock tower as Woderwick
and Kogo saunter up to you and pick up the hour-
hand. ‘We'll dispose of you soon enough,’ says
Wodenwvick, ‘but first fora spotof burglary! Wodler-
wick takes a crystal from around his neck. It ex-
pands and forms a lightly slowing ball around both
man-and cat. “Now, go! commands Woderwick,
pointing the arrow slightly up and Icft. The pair
vanish. Suddenly there is a loud scream from where
they were standing, trailing off slowly to silence.
The crystal reappears on the ground, but neither

Woderwick, Kogo, nor the arrow retum. Turn to
253.
222-224

222
To the dismay of the inn’s patrons, you slep Wium-
phantiy from the orange sphere, returning rapidly
fo normal size. Some of the crowd are hissing
at you. a few cheer — but most didn’t even care
who won. Picking up your trophy, the Biceph-
2lon’s brain, you prepare to exit the inn. At this
moment, however, the water-drenched Deik steps
from the hovering sphere. Of course, the Deik is a
molluscoid and could not drown anyway! Shiver-
ins with cold and anger, he calls for his guards
to slay you; one steps in your way before you can
depart.

OGRE-O1D SKILL 6 GTAMINA 14
if you win, turn fo 129-

S25
Roll one die. HW you roll 1,2, 3.0r4, turn to 158; if you
roll 5 or 6, turn to 6,

ott
fhe door closes and the prism begins to fall through
the base-plate in the floor, and down for many
miles. Eventually it comes to rest and vou step aut,
dazed, into a long tunnel. Just as suddenly the
prism departs through a tianyular plate in the
ceiling. leaving you stranded. Ihe passage is dank,
dark and dingy. An obnoxious green vapour covers
the floor, which slopes gently away. Will vou go up
the passage (turn to 149), or down the passage (turn

to 8g)?
>

225
Ignoriny Marsatu’s incessant blubbenng, you oe
amine your gaol. You are imprisoned in a cubic
cage, the sides of which are precisely ten feet lone.
The bars, although thin and malleable, contain
‘spike-hair’, a scintillating electro-plastic charged t
a million volts, Touch one and you will be vapor-
ized. (The dust of a previous victim has not yet
settled.} Upon the floor you find a tiny button, half
melted and not easily identifiable— — you recall similar
buttons being worn by Bok, Marsata’s fish-faced
servant. . . A quarter of an hour later, the warder
returns with L’Bastin, still entambed withim the
posiden tank. The warder, a broad-laced Prelectz
grinning like a cheshire cat, turns the power down
loa mere hundred thousand volts and, with a pai
of rubber-coated pliers, bends several bars apart
L’Bastin is wheeled in; when the bars have been
bent back into shape, the wardet tims the power up
again. You had entered the cell in a similar fashion:
the cage has no door. When the warder departs.
Marsatu and L’Bastin begin to argue. ‘I’m ina mess
now, L'Bastin,’ says Marsatu, ‘and it's all your fault!
You spent all your lime designing those stupid
Prefectas, when you could have been doning hun-
drecis of mz! 1 told you so, but you wouldn't listen.
Well, now we'Te all in this cell, and there’s no hope.
Really!’ L’Bastin’s voice reverberates from the ivory
horn: ‘Yes,’ it drones, ‘we're really in it. But what
would | want with hundreds of copies of you? You
were a disaster from the beginning; J put too much
sawdust into your mixture, and it's all gone to your

226-228

bead! I should have melted you down, along with

the other rejects! In a fury, Marsatu pushes in every

quill; the tinselfish go berserk and the oil turns red.
Will vou help LBastin (turn 0.175), or will you stuff
your fingers in your ears and wait for the screams to
subside (turn to 123)?

226

You squeeze the laser trigger and roat away from
the huge Valioog ship which, several seconds later,
explodes in a ball of green flame, then crashes down
mto the nearby star, Cabrilow. You haye saved the
Cabrilowi solar system! Unfortunately, you have no
ime to celebrate, for you must immediately press
on to Aarok, on your main mission. Will you time-
warp (furn to 254), or light-warp (tum to 279)?

227
Removing a glove, vou shake Barty’s hand. Atonce,
Barty transforms into his true self: a bight orange
blob. Having an unrelenting grip on your hand, it
wastes no time in rolling up your armand devour-
img you piece by piece.

228

After you have zapped several spiders, the others
deata ‘hasty retreat, to plan a new attack. You reach
the tup of the pillar, but you do nvt have to wait long
before their next assault. This lime there are many
more, armed with hardy shields of interwoven
webs, impervious t& laser fire. Vest your Guck. If you
are Lucky, turn to 298; if you are Uniucky, turn ta
210.
229-231

229
An idea springs to mind. You break the capsule,

releasing the bitter chemicals. These greatly aid
your telepathic powers, and you visualize an image
of Woderwick entering the chamber. Epicurien.
fooled by the image, looks up at him. ‘Epicurien”
says ‘Wodemnwvick’, ‘there’s been a terrible mistake.
Release this humanoid immediately and give him
his weapons back.’ The torturer obeys without
question. You are released, and are about to pick up
your weapons when the vision fades. “Whatis this.”
say's Epicurien, startled. ‘A frick! I'll have yer!’ He
pulls a meat hook and prodder from his toolbox,
leaps over a rack and attacks you.

EPICURIEN SKILL 7 STAMIXNAS

If vou win, turn to 253-

230
Luckily, there is a loose thread in your cocoon which
you gradually begin to unravel whenever the guard
turns his back on you. Eventually you wriggle out
and charze the surprised spider. In the following
combat, deduct 2 points from your skiLt tempor-
arily, as you have no weapons.

SPIDER-GUARD

Ifyou win, turn to 114,

~
a

SKILL& SIAMENAS

231
After further drastic manoeuvres, your situation
is;

232-233

Starspray: Pitch +20... Roll +30... Yawn. .--
Enemy: Pitch +35... Roll+60... Yaw +13...
Relative speed 1000. . .

Will you:

Maintain speed, pitch +55, yaw
+13? Turn to 248

Maintain speed, pitch +55, roll +90,
yaw +13?

Maintain speed, pitch +55, roll +3a,
yaw $13?

Turn to 206
Turn to 193

232
After a mighty tussle, you defeat the blab and
jettison it into space. Then you destroy the space
station. Will you continue towards Aarak in light-
warp (turn to 182), or in time-warp (turn to 254)?

233
‘A wise choice?’ comments Marsatu. ‘The spheres
ate skew-dimensional containers, warping volume
as we know it. Break them at the appropriate time to
receive your chosen items in full size. Now, we are
good friends, yes!" You are notsure whether this is a
Statement ora question. In any case, before you can
reply, Marsatu snatches your laser-sword and
electro-javelin. “An exchange of presents is a goad
feeling! he cries. Deduct 1 point from your SKILL.
Marsatu now leads vou to his stables, where two
bizarre mechanical contraptions have been saddled.
One of these, an emerald-green machine resem-
bling an enormous grasshopper, is for youruse. The
234-235

other, no Jess spectacular, is a gigantic metal furtle
wilh a plush leather seat set high upon its shell.

Marsatu sinks into it, declaring: ‘Now we are almost

ready to seek the Dome of Marvels and end your
mission. ‘Ihe way is tricky, and | will guide you fora
while — for a modest fee.’ (Remove all your remain-

ing credits from your Adrenture Siicet.) ‘Now, mount
your grasshopper, and tum the controls thus and
so, and we will be on aur way!’ Obeving Marsatr's
commands, ou sleer your beast to the cause-
way, while Marsatu follows close behind. Tum

ter 333.

234
Your ship lurches forward and raises 2 plastic
shield. The Deik, mastering his controls, moves just
aft and starboard, then bears down on you, grabber
raised and electrode buzzing. Examining your con-
trols, will you:

Squeeze a green jelly? Tur to 26

Break a yellow bulb? Turn to 176

Do nothing? Turn to 372
235

Before you manage to reach the wharf, you are set
upon by a swift swamp-yacht.

RATING LASERS SHIELDS

SWAMP-

YACHT 4 3 6
YOUR COMBAT

VEHICLE - 2 10

236

if you win, you must abandon your vehicle. Will
you turn towards a ventilator shaft in the nearby
tubewar building (tam to 309), or towards the
building’s main gate (turn to 397), or will you head
for the hover-ship, moored against the wharf (turn
to 231)?

236

‘Bul lsee that you have already met Schaine,’ barks
Krill, pointing at the widening gap on your forehead
and the growing lumps on your face and legs.
‘Come with me. It is not too late to reverse the
transmutation process." Krill leads you into a tiny
chamber, far back in his cave, where he prepares a
very special tonic. “Take note,” he says, ‘dew fom
an unripe cloudberry, picked at dawn. . spleen of
a devil-lizard albino of two seasons’ standing .

the first five leaves of a young ointbush, and water
collected from the seven mystic rivers at Chochog:
all blended in the prescribed manner and boiled ina
gold-crystal vase for six minutes and twenty-seven
seconds exactly!" You drink the bitter concaction,
while Krill begins a low chant. When he has done,
he continues, ‘There, you will soon be cured. OF
course, some would say that I have just performed
magic, wizardry, or even witchcraft: Schaine herself
calls it magic; but that is nonsense. I have merely
utilized the laws of chemistry for preparing the
correct medication; my chanting applied the rules of
mathematics and physics to set up a resonance
which would activate the compound in your body.
These processes are no more magical than the ones
237

you use to fly through space and time! Turn
to 341-

237 :

Hours later, you awaken ina squalid brick cell. Your
arms and legs are bound by steel cables and clamps
ta.alaw metal table. To one side, resting against the
wall, are your weapons. On the other side are
spiked seats, iron cages and other unimaginable
devices with cogs, screws and pincers. You are ina
torture chamber! A sniffle and a clanking of chains
makes you raise your head. Looking past vour feet,
you notice, chained against the wall, a weird crea-
ture with a huge onion-shaped head and three
tentacles, Itis wearing, believe it or nol, a white coat
and spectacles. lis sparkly eyes are examining you.
Its beaky mouth smiles faintly as it speaks: “Good
morning, stranger. ‘This will be some day to remem

ber, I can see that!’ You strike up a light-hearted
conversation with the creature. Tle is Dr Strange
thing, the owner of the manor-house you entered

237

earlier. Me was captured and imprisoned by Woder-
wick and his master Kogo, the three-eyed cat, a
notoriously bad-tempered freebooter. ‘Of course,’
says the doctor, ‘“Woderwick is only Kogo’s mind-
less familiar, through which the cat may communi-
cate more readily with the humanoids. Wader-
wick’s words are therefore those telepathically im-
planted by his master. Still,” muses the doctor, ‘1
believe there to be an imperfection in the ansferral
process, and that “Woderwick” should really be
“Roderick”! Dr Strangething tells you that he has
been imprisoned for some days, beaten and tor-
tured. ‘T have invented a crystal, you see, that will
enable a person tu be transported almost anywhere
instantancously — if not sooner! Now they have it —
Wodensick wears it ona chain around his neck; but
they cannot use it. There is a cursor, you see — an
strow-shaped device which is needed to guide the
crystal through space and time. Without it, the
crystal is useless. I have hidden the cursor in my
manor, but as yet neither Woderwick, Koga nor
their underlings have been able to locate it.” Turn to
216.

oS

‘
oY

~

238-239

238

You are undecided as to which side-passage you
should take when suddenly a spindly metallic con-
traption with springs, cogs, wheels and iron claws
comes bounding along the tunnel. Atop it, sitting
on a high wooden seat, is perched a decrepit little
creature with a large blue head. “Whoa, there!’ he
croaks, and his machine halts before vou. ‘I am
Zud the lockmaster. Perhaps you wish to reach
the second vault? Come now, they al! do! Well,
fortune has smiled on you- I have a key in my
chambers which will help. Follow me, if you will.’
Do you wish to follow Zud (turn to 16), or, mis-
trusting him, go your own way (turn to 7)?

239

You approach the door, wondering whether to
knock or try to sneak in. You examine the door: solid
oak, bound with iron. It has an iron knocker,
fashioned like a lion, Suddenly it lunges forward,
snaps, and bites off one of vour fingers! Deduct 1
point from your Skit Now the door Springs Open,
and two Brutes leap out. armed with revolvers,
whips and spiked knuckledusters. “Looks like a bur-
glar to me!" says one. ‘A sneak he is,’ sneers the
other. ‘Let's teach him some respect!’

SKILI STAMINA
LONG-ARMED BRUTE 7 10
TOOTHLESS BRUTE 6 8

if you win, roll one die. Lf you roll 1, 2 or 3, turn ta
272. If you roll 4, 5, or 6, turn to 188.
240-241

240

The fire is extinguished in a whoosh of ges. Unfortu-
nately, while you were preoccupied with this task, 2
small Valioog sky-wasp has been released from the
mothership, and has locked you into its sights.
SKY-WASP

lf you win, him to 23.

RATING 6 LASERS 2 STITELDSS

241

The passage begins ta descend gradually, and you
find yourself at the entrance to a vast dark space,
many miles wide and high. This is Vault 2. Within
arc scattered luminous, opaque tetrahedral prisms
but, as you are not very close to any of them, it is
difficult to tell their size. ‘The only other source of
light comes from a grand manor-house, with a
stvepled clock-tower, some distance awav. Will you
approach the nearest prism (tum to 57), or seck the
comforts of the manor instead (turn to 142)?

242-243

You enter 2 triangular room with a sloping floor of
green crystal. In the furthest corner there appears to
be 2 small exit. Mounted on tivo of the walls are
Degs, burdened by heavy spacesuits, helmets and
face masks. One of the suits is oozing a luminous
orange substance; fromitthe head of a man juts out.
Slowly he swivels his head towards you, coughs
several times, and grins wearily. ‘I suppose you've
come in answer to our distress signal. Well, you're
too latef Most of the crew, perhaps all of them, have
already been devoured by orange blobs. I’m being
slowly eaten by one now! It’s quite painless! 1 just
wish you'd come along earlier and saved us. Never
mind, I strongly recommend that you leave the
station now — while you‘ve still gota chance, . .“ Te
Coughs again, this time spitting orange bile. ‘Bul
here’s a tip for you: don’t use your lasers against
them — there's a gas leak, and you'll be blown
sky-high. If you’re confronted by one, run away if
you can, otherwise throw something at them. It'll
take’em a while to devour it and —if you're lucky —it
may even kill ‘em.’ He closes his eyes and gets on
with the business of dying. Will you retum to the
tubular passage and continue along it (turn to 173),
or will you leave via the small exit in the corner of
the room (turn to 124)?

243
Now you can hear the bandit laughing, further
along the passage. There is also a loud click: he is
loading another spectron-pellet into a projector.
244

Quickly you mush round the bend towards him. lest
your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn 10 343; if you are
Unlucky, turn te 331.

244

You don a space suit and, harnessing a jet pack to
your back, pass through the air-lock. Then, sidling
across the fuselage, you push yourself across to the
starboard retro thruster. The fingus is coarse and
matted, and when you try to cutit with a laser-Knile
il turns quite hostile!

SPACE-WEED SKILLS STAMINA6

If you win, you decide to return to the ship, before
the space-weed strikes again, Obviuously the only
way to dispose of it is ta burn it off, while passing
through a planet's atmosphere. Turn to 213.

245-248

245
You peer warily at the spigot. Within it there
appears to be a curled wire — possibly electrified.
You decide to leave the spigot alone and continue
down the corndor towards the exit. ‘Turn to 257-

246
You throw the sphere on the floor, expecting it to
break open and reveal a magnificent suit of battle-
armour. Instead, the sphere bounces away: it is
made of rubber! Marsatu shrugs. ‘An oversight on
my part; not the genuine article, it seems.’ Turn to
275-

247
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn lo 158; if you
are Unlucky, turn to 6.

248
You are blown to pieces by a huge nuclear mine,

249-250

249
he enemy, now al close range, casts a volley of

Brapplng 2 irons into your barge, drawing the Gyo
ssels together. The enemy captain, a rodent-laced
eature with enormous ears, leads his cutthroats

cross a gangplank. You must fight.

A § 8 sl

tu

SKILL STAMINA

CAPTAIN BIG-EARS 8 §
POT-BELLIED
CUT-THROAT - 4

i you win, turn to 136.

250
Glip now turns the red ring one segment ant-
clockwise. His path is no longer blocked, sa, bran-
dishing an electro-lance, he spurs his armoured
Deast towards vou. In response, you manoeuvre
your grasshopper and its laser-cannon to face
firm.

RATING LASERS SHIELDS
GLIP 4 3 8
GRASSHOPPER 4 10

if you win, another Glip appears on the vacated spot
on the red ring. Scuttlebug, gnashing its fangs,
turns the blue ring one segment clockwise, but is
toiled. Mutant tums the yellow ring one segment
anti-clockwise, and his phase ends. Now the third
move begins. Will you rotate the red ring one seg-
ment clockwise iturn to 100), or tivo scements anti-
clockwise (turn to 12)?
251-252

=
Despite your efforts, you are seized by a large
Ogre-oid and brought before the Deik. Turn to 51.

252
Wrigeling through the reeds is an exotic, striped
thing with a slug’s head and torso, two stumpy
forearms, leathery flukes and fins. It examines you
in a somewhal pernickely manner while menacing
you with a multi-barrelled blunderbuss. Eventually
it grins toothily. “So you're a real, then! Sorry, but
one must be careful nowadays. Oh, for the good old
days!’ The beast returns your weapons and strikes
up a conversation, Apparently it was manufactured
by L’Bastin when he first arrived on Aarok. ‘Many
weird things came out ofhis tubs in the early days,
the creature reminisces. ‘l had good friends among
them. We were just part of his grand experiment, of
course: small steps towards the discovery of his
“perfect” life-form. But! was a failure. Me said I was
loo sensitive, and cared too much for the trees
and shrubs. Sambuch the Snail he called me.” E
snickers. “Please, call me Sam!’ One day, Sam
accidentally overheard a conversation between

253

L’Bastin and a servant. ‘When I heard that | was to
be returned to the pot, [decided to escape. Sv here |
am, though not out of trouble yct, | may add." Sam
pauses abruptly, rubs his stalked eyes, then chooses
his words carefully, “You seem a generous soul ta
me. Perhaps you would be kind enough to help me
out of, er, a minor predicament?’ Something in his
remarks disturbs you. Has he been telling you the
truth? If you decide to help him, turn to 144; other-
wise, turn to 218.

253

You gather up your weapons and free Dr Stranye-
thing. You are about to leave the cell when the
doctor calls, ‘One moment. | know the passage to
the surface, but there are traps on the way. No one
has ever escaped from these dungeons.’ Thinking
for a2 moment, you search Epicunien‘’s body. In
a concealed pouch you find a tattered vellum
parchment:

- LA TT Rix
J4VMGI RIX O

| Sadiq: 99AVWGI-GAIIM- BA*TT|
ier a = , ena (ea

(if you wrote down the ‘perspex’ message earlier,
you may now try to translate these runes.) Now,
you follow Dr Strangething through the passayes.
lurn to 316.
2545222

254

However, before you reach Aarok, your communi-
cator crackles with the voice of your leader, King
Vaax. ‘Another minor change in plans,” he says.
‘Within your vicinity is the infamous space pirate,
Tungsten-Kiaw. Heis about to raid a friendly word,
and we want you to stop him! That is all!’ With
a mighty rattle, you re-enter ‘real space’ in the
Adelpha solar system. Your sensors immediately
detect ‘l'ungsten-Klaw's ship, the Grarai Archipelago,
making its way towards one of the richest planets in
the system. Throttling forward, you prepare for
battle. Turn to 11.

255

You touch the correct mechanism, and the sides of
the crate disintegrate, revealing its contents: a three-
wheeled buggy. It is equipped with two lasers, one
on each side, and you observe a large hemispherical
hollow on top, probably to sit in. Peculiarly, the
laser muzzles each have a small metallic face
machined into them; these now eye you suspicious-
ly, and begin chatting to each other! “What do you
make of it, Bric?’ says the laser on the right. ‘Dunno,
Brac,’ answers the other, ‘Wish Head was here.
Still, he looks kind o' nervous.’ “Heh, he’s got every
night to be, I reckon,” replies the right-hand laser.
They talk in machine language for a while, then
suddenly the bugey rolls forward and swivels to the
left: Brac looks menacing. Will you jump to your left
(turn to 223), or to your right (turn to 6), or dive to
the ground (turn to 325)?

256-257

256

You are pushed up against the pillar, and stick fast.
The old man cackles, ‘By the will of the globe-
headed green siant, it must be sol’ He turns ta move
away, but your fourth arm, which is still free, pulls
him on to the pillar also. “We will suffer this fate
together then,” you muse ruefully, as both yourself
and the screaming old man are slowly covered by
dripping goblets of the strange liquid.

257
Unluckily, as you moye along the corridor, your
boot connects with a glass spigot that hitherta you
had failed to notice, since it was at ankle height.
Now the upper end of the spigot cracks and breaks
off. From a cavity within it, a long wiry cord unturls
and begins to whip you mercilessly. It is part of the
ship’s defence network. You may defend yourself
2

258-259

only with buckler and electrojavelin, so deduct +
point from your SKILL temporarily during the com-
bat which follows,

ATTACK WHIP

If you win, the spigot and part of the hoop to which
it was attached dissolve, forming an exit on your
right. Also, you discover that the left-hand ex<t
further along has become blocked by a newly
formed hoop. You may now continue along thelong
passage (turn to 173), or pass through the opening
on your right (turn to 242).

SKILL Q TAMINA4S

258
The yame is over and you have been victorious.
Giant Jym Ego snorts. “Bah! You deceived me. You
must be a professional player. Still, lam generous to
a fault. To the Dome of Marvels you may go-" Jym
instructs Marsatu to join you on the Koundabout’s
central platform. ‘Now, close your eves and don’t
peek, or T'll send you to the Dome of Horrors
instead!’ You both obey the giant's instructions, and
you sense the rings spinning. Then you feel a waft
of air and a heavy jolt. You risk taking a look
around. You have indeed reached the Dome of
Marvels. In fact, you are sitting on top of it! Turn to

337-

259
‘Do you have any salt?’ Bastin inquires. “No? Then
we are doomed.’ His words ring true, and you die in
detention, several weeks later-

260-262

260
Operating a scoop, you prepare to pick up an escape
module. As you approach, however, an explosive
pellet is launched from another starfighter. lts force
sends you somersaulting into the module, shcing it
in half. Reduce your sHteLps by 2 points perma-
nently, and deduct 2 points from your STAMINA.

_ Recovering, will you proceed towards the Valioog

mothership at speed (turn to 369), perform an
Figenvector Roll’ to attack another starfighter from
the rear {turn to 320), launch an atomic flare (turn to
143), or perform a complex turn (turn to 389)?

261

For most of the day you track the droid through the
woodlands, across tiny brooks and along rocky
eulleys. Quite obviously he is familiar with the
region. Curiously, although he is aware of your
presence (his three faces give him all-round vision),
he makes no attempt to conceal himself. But when
dusk approaches, the droid leaves the forest and
vanishes behind a bluff of blue moonstone. When
you follow, you cannot see him. Your only clucisa
faint trail which forks left towards a spiny ridge; and
right, towards a steep incline. Will you follow the
left path (turn to 354), or the right path (turn to 307),

or continue trailing the base “of the bluff (turn to

375)?

262
You leap into a tube<ar filled with dignitaries.
Menacing them with your laser, you steer the craft
263-265

along the tube and enter the city. At the first station
you reach, you leap from the vehicle and, sealing
its doors with vour laser, follow along a broad
triangular passaye. Turn to 323.

263

Before you make your getaway, a dozen more
spiders show up. After a fierce struggle, in the
course of which you knock several spiders uncon-

sciaus and plant your boot squarely in the face of
sisciher you are overwhelmed, tied up and beaten.
Deduct 2 points from your STAMINA, You are drag-
ged for miles across the desert towards the spiders’
camp, arriving there at first hght. Tum to 327-

264
You spin half starboard and move away, then spin
full to port to face the Deik’s flank. But his elec-
trode whips your craft. Deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA. If you have a dari-gun, turn to 398;
otherwise, will you press a red button (tum tp 109)
or pull on a wire {iurn to 314)?

265
The bow! you are standing in starts to fill with fire
Roll as many dice as you have titanium cubes. If the
total of your roll equals

1,2,3,40T5 Deduct 5 points from your STAMINA

6,7 Deduct 4 points from your STAMINA
8.9 Deduct 3 points from your STAMINA
10, 14 Deduct 2 paints from your STAMINA

12 Deduct 1 point from your STAMINA

266

The bowl then empties of fire. If you are still alive,
you may pass through the bowl and follow the
tunnel on the other side. Turn to 200.

266

With a squelch, you run the jellified creature over,
then reverse the scooter through the swinging
doors, into a vast chamber. Within, tall trees sraw
on large pontoons: whole groves of oranges,
lemons, peaches and other fruits. You have entered
the space station's hydroponic gardens where all

the fresh food is produced. Luckily, the bruised blob
has not followed you; you dismount and cxamine
the gardens at leisure. Will you tim your nose
towards a mm of strawberries (turn to 362), or ry an
unrecognizable, sweet-smelling fruit (turn ta 197)?
267

267

Passing a large tablet printed with incomprehen-
sible letters of red and yellow, you enter what you
believe to be a small shrine. Within, on a low brass
pedestal. is an obsidian sculpture, six feet high,
fashioned like a raindrop, The front of the ‘shrine’ is
open to view from the causeway and so, as the
lantermn-bearing figure approaches, you leap behind
the sculpture, pressing yourself against it. This
action is disastrous! As you touch the stone, it
liquefies and splashes to the floor like cold water. In
its place, standing upon the pedestal, is a hideous
ruby-coloured creature with a horse-like head, two
legs and no arms. It is wrapped in light-grey
pyjamas embellished with darker-grey arrows.
Upon its head is a floppy peaked cap of similar
material. Leering at you it rants; “Free! Pree after
four hundred years. Such harsh treatment for a few
petty killings and some harmless debauchery!
They'll rue the day they lacked fearless Fog Farkin
away!’ You recall the name: a tyrannical galactic
gangster of yesteryear, sentenced to a thousand
years’ imprisonment for countless robberies and
brutal slayings. And you have released him! Tum t
359.

268-270

268
Farkin’s sticky tongue releases you. Gasping for
breath, you turn on your laser-sword and attack the
evil gangster.
FOG FARKIN

If you win, turn to 294.

SKILL STAMINA G6

269
Your shipis pierced by a huge tungsten bolt, which
destroys a laser pod. Reduce both your SHIELDS
and your LASERS by 1 point permanently.
Sterspray: Pitch +21.5. - . Roll +112. -.
Yaw+i.5...
Enemy: Pitch +35. .- Roll +60...
Yawtai3...
Relative speed 2op0. - -

Now you May:

Halve speed, roll +90 Turn to 34
Halve speed, pitch +60, roll +30 Tum to 22
Maintain speed, pitch —15, roll +60,

vaw +5 Turn to 237

270
‘Splendid!’ Zud exclaims. “This is what I have in
mind: not far from here is a drinking tavern, fre-
quented by many of the brigands, waylitfs and
unscrupulous profiteers who infest this planet.
Within the tavern, adorning its walls and spaces,
you will see many wondrous curios which belong to

271

the tavern’s owner: an old purple Deik. lam partiar-
larly interested in one of the objects he possesses. It
is an enormous brain of a Bulb-Headed Bicephalon
of Atranda-Red, the most intelligent creatures in the
snown multiverses. The brain has been perfectly
preserved in a crystal decanter. I need the brain, in
goed condition, t2 power my craft, and since the
miserable old Deik refuses to part with if, you will
Steal it for me!’ Surely Zud must be mad! Will you
draw your laser pistol and threaten Zud (burn to 162)
or obey his request (turn to 315}?

271

You follow a coloured stream for several hours,
unhlits course slows at the entrance of a broad [ake.
Upon the lake, resting on massive piers, is a huge
crystalline spaceship, bristling with weapons. A
high causeway curls away from it to the lake’s edge,
if you have previously met Schaine the Delphon
sprite, turn to 171. Othenvise, you may wish to
enter the ship via the causeway (turn to 317), or
vacate the area, following a trail away from the
causeway (turn to 354).
————

272-274

272

Just as you dispatch the secynd Brute, more out
landish creatures appear al the doorway. One six-
armed critter, with a baton in one hand and a net
in another, snares you and beats you senseless.
Deduct 2 poinis from your sTAMiNaA. You are
drazged, bleeding, into the house, and left in 2
room alone for a while. Eventually, the stx-armed
thing returns: “Boss and Woderwick will see you
now,’ itsrunts. ‘Better be on your best behaviour, if
you know what's good for you" Turn to 367.

273
The remaining spiders, scuitling to the tops of near-
by columns, shriek al you and begin spinning long
webs. The nearest spider streams a card across the
gap. It glues fast, allowing three other spiders tu
rush across at you, Will you kick the spiders (turn to
210), or turn your pistol on them (turn 10 228)?

274
You enter a long thin gallery. Violet windows,
sweeping the entire length of the hall, give you a
grand view of your spaceship, still moored against
the air-tube. Suddenly, you become aware of 2
hungry orange blob which is rolling towards you.
As blobs are notoriously difficult to kill, you deade
to dice to the appasite end of the hall. On the way,
your shoulder brushes against an object; it is a
human skeleton, one of the blob’s former victims.
The twisted finger-banes still dutch a couple ot
items, and.a plastic pouch lying on the floor con-

275-276

tains a few more. You just have time to scoop up two
of the following items:

flare pistol

chain

compressed-air canister

wrist-watch

club

chewing gum
When you have decided which two objects you
collect, add them to your Adnenture Skeet, then turn
to 332.

275
Marsatu leaps behind you as the Prefecta attacks.

PREFECTA SKILLS STAMINA 8

if you win, turn to 2g.

276
You take the air-tube to Vault 7 and pass through a
triangular opening to enter L’Bastin’s laboratory’. It
1s a large rectangular chamber with a yaudy tanger-
ine ceiling and sickly brown walls. Lining many
of the walls are aluminium racks crammed with
colourful bottles, smoking flasks, corked cylinders
and tubes. A pungent odour rises from thick dust
and spilt liquids carpeting the Hoor — certainly
Bastin had been a most untidy scientist! In the
main, however, your attention is drawn to the
opposite end of the room, beyond dozens of raws of
high wooden benches, to a point where three
dog-like beings are shovelling powdered chemicals
277-278

into a mechanical hopper. Stealing closer, you
examine them in detail. By their outlandish dress
and their queer manner of speech, you recognize
them as Yappies, a race of intelligent canines from
Quadranx-Mauve. Apparently they are laboratory
assistants, preparing the chemical mix for the sec-
ond batch of Prefectas. ‘Zap, my man, Brag, says
the one wearing the bowler hat, blue reflectors and
satin pantaloons, ‘it’s freezo time. Clear yar pads,
it’s time for a gulp of rocket cola.’ Zap and Brag
down tools and follow the other into a side room
where, after a noisy gurgle, they can be heard
gigeling and quietly humming weird tunes, When
all seems safe, you sneak up to the gyreting hopper
and crumble your rock-salt into the mix. But as you
tum aside, the now tipsy Yappies return. Tley,
hey!’ says one. ‘What's this—a snoop? I'mjabbin’ m’
blabber to those Prefecta dudes, orm’ bonnet'll roll!’
They all turn to leave the laboratory. li you have the
sphere containing the audio-amplifying headset,
turn lo 132; otherwise, lum fo 115.

277
‘Ya’ flim-flam, scint not!” snaps the old manangnily.
‘You're for orange pol, ha!’ Ie staggers over to the
gong, sounds it Gvice, and points towards you. He
has awakened the Deik! fur to 52-

278
All the square-shaped tiles change colour: orange to
green, green to bluc, blue to orange. Will you step
on tile B2 (turn to 327), or tile C3 (tum to 129)?

279-281

279
Eventually, you teach Aarok and exit from the
warp. However, as you manoeuvre the Sturspray
through the atmosphere’s defences of mines, pro-
jectiles and atomic blimps, you are detected and
attacked by an automated defence module.

DEFENCE
MODULE RATINGG6 LASERS2 SHIELDS6

If you win, turn to 52-

280
Unluckil¥ for you, the Prefecta’s scooter is clogged
with thick mud and will not start. With the other
spider-craft approaching, you decide to climb on to
the tree branch, and take aim al it. Turn to 165.

281

Before you can climb to the top, a dozen hairy
spider-critters leap over a dune, shrieking wildly.
Three of them begin to climb your pillar; the others
Scuttle up nearby columns. Will you plant your
heelin the face of the first spider below you (turn to
210), shoot several off a nearby pillar (turn to 228), or
use your laser-sword and buckler to dislodge those
below (turn to 178}?

282-283

282
The enemy ship, passing close overhead, drops a
metal sphere to the desert floor before continuing to
pursue Long-nose’s barge. The sphere bursts open
to reveal a Savage, apricot-coloured mutantoid. It
attacks you with whip and thunder-gun.

MUTANTOID SKILi.§ STAMINA 6

Lf you win, turn to 32.

Dr Strangething cackles from above, and slides
down the tower with the minute-hand wrapped
omy in his tentacles. ‘This is the real cursor,’ he
explains. “‘Woderwick and Kogo are naw lost, who
knows where and when. It is unlikely that they will
ever return.” He says this with knowing finality. He
picks up the crystal and you both enter the manar.
After a rest and 2 delightful cup of tea, Dr Strange-
ching offers to take you to the defence centre, via his
mgenious crystal. Not too close, you understand —
chere are sensors and defences down there which
will detect the crystal and its users — and then we
would be in trouble! Perhaps I'll take you to Vault 5,
near the Dome of Marvels. You cun find your own
way from there.’ He laughs; the crystal expands, the
cursor is directed and you are transported. Tur to

-
_
284

284

You eventually find your way to the main entrance
of the mansion and out on to the terraces surround:
ing it. Not far away stand Marsatu and Bok. Marsatu
appears to be giving the servant some instructions —
what a pity you cannot lip-read! After a minute
Marsatu turns lo you, while Bok, having received 2
pat from his master, trots away north-eastwards
along the causeway. ‘Tim,’ begins Marsatu, ‘last
night you bezan to tell me about your mission—’
(This you do not recall.) “Well, I'l) help you right
enough; just follow me.” You are led back through
the manor’s passages to a room with a huge old-
fashioned fireplace. Above this, an a broad mantel-
piece, is a pewter figurine to which Marsatu now
draws your attention, Behold!” he cries, twisting a
curiously wrought golden key info the figurine’s
single eye-sockel. The entire fireplace swivels aside
to reveal, upon a recessed shelf behind, seven small
crystalline globes. Each sphere is transparent, and
contains a tiny object. “Choose hwo,’ says Marsatu,
You may choose any two from the following list and
add them to your Adventure Sheet. The spheres
contain:

a drill-helmet

some battle-armour

an infra-red sensor helmet
an audio-amplifying headset
jet boots

a metal hound
power-gauntleis

285-287
When you have chosen, tum to 233-

285
You take some minor damage from bubble-bomb
splinters. Deduct 1 point from your STAMINA,

Starspray: Pitch +19... Roll +82... Yaw —18...
Enemy: Pitch +35... Roll +f0... Yaw +13...
Relative speed 2000 - - -

You may-

Maintain speed, yaw -6.5 ‘Turn to 148
Maintain speed, pitch —15, yaw —31 Tum to.177
Fialve speed, roll +105, vaw —5 Turn to 203

236
The enemy barge fires a small missile, which im-
pacts near you on the iron-clad deck. Deduct 2
points from your STAMINA. Turn to 249.

287

Shooting is ineffective, as the bolts bounce off the
Snutes’ armour. One Brute says to the other: Tley,
Marigold, tooks like our lucky day. What a bunny
we have here!’ “Yeah, Nob,” says Marigold gruffly.
‘Let's hit him with the clubbers.’ You scramble to
your feet to escape the flailing clubs, and draw your
laser-sword.

SKIL1. STAMINA
NOB 8 12
MARIGOLD 6 12

Lf you win, tum to 166; if you lose, tum to 116,
288—290

288
Alas, the hound is defective, and tums on you,
pnashingits fangs. Marsatu and the Prefecta almost
split their sides with laughter. Tleell’ you scream.
‘Heel!’
METAL HOUND

If you win, turn to 275.

SKILLY STAMINA 3

289

An enormous nose appears over the side of the
barge, accompanied by a small, bug-eyed face-
‘Ahoy there, stranger!’ yells this creature, the cap-
tain, ‘T’m short on crew; if you'll dimb aboard, I'm
sure we could come to some arrangement’ Wishing
lo put some distance between yoursell and the
desert spiders, you climb the rope ladder and enter
the barge. Turn to 364.

290
Before you submerge, there is a loud explosion anc
the bell’s top hatch is ripped off. Deduct 2 points
from your STAMINA. ‘Three ferocious Prefecias
scramble through the hole and attack.

SKILL STAMINA
SNAPPY SERGEANT

PREFECTA 8 5
CRAFTY CORPORAL

PREFECTA § 6
PUGNACIOUS PRIVATE

PREFECTA 8 7

291-292

if you win, will you prefer to divert the craft towards
the north-west (turn to 128}, or order the computer
to change to action plan number 358 (turn to 358), or
number 368 (turn to 368)?

291
Your ship begins to spin backwards; your electrode-
probe whirls violently and comes into contact with
your own sphere. Deduct 2 points from your
stamina. The Deik appears to starboard. Soon he
will be within range. Will you:

Blow in a red tube? ‘Turn lo 234
Twist a triangular knob? Tum & 26
Pull an tron ring on the floor? furn to 47

292

In an attempt to avoid enemy flak, you accelerate
the Sterspray’s engines way beyond their safe oper-
ating range, and force the craft through a tight tum.
The energy banks overload dangerously and you
burn out a magno-seal. Turn to 389.

293-296

293

Now the toad-faced creature appears behind you,

‘Right, that’s mine. My heirloom!’ he says, greedily
eyeing the spectron projector and its bag uf explo-
sive pellets. Bul 2 spectron projector may be very
useful to you on your mission. Will you hand it to
him (turn to 88), or do you prefer to keep it yourself
(turn to 381}?

294
You search Fog’s body and find a steel file, (Add this
to Your Adventure Sheet.) Turning, you notice the
lantern-figure observing you from the causeway.
He had been watching your life-and-death tussle
without once offering assistance! Turn to 349.

295
Eventually the noise fades to a faint tinkle in the
distance, then there is silence. After you spend the
might in a fitful doze, moming arrives. You may
wish to leave the village via Spitflak’s Street (turn to
160), or further mvestigate the buildings during
daylight (hirn fo 380).

296

As speaker bellows: ‘Danger! Three enemy battle-
cruisers approaching. Situation grim!‘ Rhio is still
reclining in his chair and, when you prod him, you
find that he is dead; obv iously the excitement hed
been too much for him! The speaker continues:
Situation desperate! Suggest you pursue action
plan number 208, 358 or 368. . -inputrequired . ,
297-298

The auto-contrel is awaiting your response. With-
out knowing what the action plan numbers entail,
svill you pursue plan number 208 (tum to 208), 355
(turn to 358), or 368 (turn to 368)?

297
The blob soon catches and devours you.

Only after a fierce struggle do you manage to re-
pulse the spiders. Those still alive retreat a short
distance away and spend the entire night nursing
their wounds in a hollow near by, At dawn, as you
are squatting miserably on top of the pillar wonder-
ing how to escape, you detect a faint humming. In
the distance you perceive a large, flat air-barge
skimming towards you, ils distinctive red-and-
white pennant fluttering in the breeze. Soon the
barge is hovering only twenty feet overhead, drop-
ping a rope ladder to you as it sends the spiders
scuttling from the path ofa heat-ray. You have been
saved! Turn to 289,

299-300

299
fhe Glip turns the red ring one segment anti-
clockwise, but cannot attack. However, when
Scuttiebug rotates the blue ring one segment clock-
wise, he has a clear path and attacks your flank.

RATING LASERS SHIELDS
SCLUTTLEBUG 5 2 12
GRASSHOPPER - 3 10

if you win, tum tp 258-

300
With a most peculiar sensation, vour laser-sworu’s
pommel enters his head with a squelch. ‘Barty’ flops
to the ground and transforms into his truce self: a
bright orange jelly! Before your astonished eyes it
melts through the overalls and re-forms into an
angry blob. It is a Valeretian Surprise, a monster
capable of flexing itself into almost anv shape. You
were to be this one’s next dinner! The blob naw ralls
towards vou, blocking your exit to the escape hatch
and melting the air-seal shut. Will you nan down a
dend im the corridor {turn to 60), or will you dive
through a narrow metal chute on yourright (tum to
242)?
301

301

You pay for the use of a pit — which is actually a
hollow in the floor, several feel in diameter. (Deduct
2 credits from your Adventure Sheet.) As you sit
there, a tall green steward fills the pit to the brim
with a dark liquid, then offers you a straw, before
departing. Now, sipping at the vile concochon, you
wander how you will accomplish Zud‘s task; you
are also mindful of Gnasha, chewing away mermily
inside you. Your thoughts are soon interrupted by a
drunken old man from the next pit, Tlis bowl is
empty, and he punches you in the arm and declares:
‘I'm short on lack-knee — ya’ not!’ Unsure of the
correct reply, will you answer

‘Tush, move ya‘ lack-knee on all!’?

‘Aye, short o' lack-knee ya’ not!?

‘Tush va’ lack-knee jarg’, try ni’er
bowl!’?

Turn to 334
Turn to 191

Tum to 277

302-305

302
You do not swim very far before a large, toothy
Gooblepotomus pokes it: snout out of the water.
‘Ah,mmm. . .’itburbles, ‘it must be time for a little
snack! As you find it difficult to defend yourself in
water, deduct 2 points from your sKIL1 temporarily
during the following combat.

GOOBLEPOTOMUS

If you win, you had better swim back to shore before
you find vourself being attacked by another un-
wholesome creature, You may either set out after
the droid (turn to 261), or travel up the vaie to locate
2 village and help {tum to 344).

SKIL1.6G STAMINA 10

393
The Glip tums the red ring one segment anti-
clockwise, and charges on his beast towards you.

RATING LASERS SHIELDS
GLIP 4 3 §
GRASSHIOPPER - 4 10)

If you win, then itis Scuttlebug’s phase. He decides
not to rotate the blue ring. Turn to 212.
304

304

Suddenly the robot's arms are activated. One of
these grips your hand and shakes it so vigorously
that your arm is torn off! Deduct 4 points from your
STAMINA and 1 point from your sxiLt. “Oops,
sorry!’ says ihe robot. ‘Thought you were 2
machine, too. Here, let me help.’ It produces 2
flesh-mastic spray; this, coating your injured joint,
stops the bleeding in seconds (if you are still alive).
Then, just as amazingly, the robot hurls your limp
arm away. ‘That's useless now,’ it declares, ‘but tr
this one: it’s much better, really.’ This time, it pulls
outa horrible, rubbery tentacle, which it forces on to
your joint and glues in place! The robot, quite satis-
fied with the result, deactivates itself. You soon
discover that, in fact, the tentacle is easy to manage
and in many instances would spi mare useful
than a humanoid arm. Still... Eventually you
recover from the shock. Will you examine the small
hemisphere, if you have not already done so (turn
to 149), or the unmarked crate (hurn to 255); or do
you prefer to return to the sleeping Rhio, in the level
above (turn ty 296)?

305

395
The entire bookshelf revolves, carrying you with it

into a dimly lit storeroom which is cluttered with
gadectry. Unable to find a way back to the study,
and unable to find another exit fom the room, you
decide to spend some time prying around, The
significance of your find now becomes apparent.
The store contains a huge cache of weapons: laser-
rifles, ays, Vacuum grenades, battle armour and
much, much more — enough to equip a small, Gite
army. You even find a dozen suits of fully charged
Newburvy’s pan-dimensional polyarmour, an ex-
tremely sophisticated item which enables its wearer
to exist in both the 3rd and the 17th dimension
simultaneously. The practical result of this miracle
technology is that, for a time, the user may pass
through walls and other obstacles without damag-
ing either himselt, the suit or the obstacle. You have
never worn pan-dimensional armour before, but
decide to try on a suit now. First you don the
moulded face-mask, then the front plate, with its
lasers mounted in a small chest cavity, then the
thigh pads, greaves and, finally, gloves. These
items are attached to you by leather thongs tied at
the back. Pan-dimensional suits are manufactured
2s front-pieces onty; the back is left uncovered and
exposed. Thus the wearer can only walk forward
through an obstacle, never backwards or sidewavs.
For this reason, pan-dimensional soldiers must
always attack, since they cannot retreat without
exposing their backs to the enemy. Now fully
equipped, do vou wish to pass through the wall and
306

back into the study (turn to 385}, or shp through the
floor io investigate the basernent (turn to 184)?

306

You respond jubilantly, ‘| have some salt, but how
can | administer it? We are still caged in, after all-
‘Not far long." says L’Bastin, plunging one arm into
the posidon tank. With a yank, he pulls loose the
rubber mouth-piece and hose. Tiere, wrap this
round one of your hands,’ ke tells you. When you
have dune so, he points to the bars where Marsatu
was killed. ‘Observe: those bars are quite dull, and
covered swith soot: a good msulator. Their power
has been much reduced. Now, clench those bars
with the rubber hose, and bend them outwards.

Apprehensively, you touch the bars and bend therm
vut of shape, receiving only minor shocks as you Go
so, Deduct 2 points from your STAMINA. Stepping
singerly through the gap, you turn to help L’Bastin
out; at this moment, the warder retums. ‘Caught
you in the acu!’ he shouts, levelling his needle-gun

In a flash you leap on him, wrestling for the
WAPOr.

WARDER SKILL8 STAMINA ®

Tf you win, turn to 356.

FE cet,
a ai -

307-308

397

You follow the path along the edye of a deep chasm,
then down a narrow gulch towards a purple-and-
orange river. Foolishly, you decide ta wade acrass
the stream before testing it it is caustic and burns
your skin. Deduct 2 points from your STAMINA,
When you have crossed, you rest on the bank fora
while, wrapping your wounds in broad leaves
picked from a nearby vintbush, a plant with extra-
ordinary healing properties. You also stow away
several more leaves for future use. (Add them ta
your Adventure Sheet.) Turn to 271.

303
You just avoid falling against one of the sticky
pillars. The old man raises his staff, declaring, ’By
the will of the globe-headed green piant, you must
suffer the great ignominy! He attacks again, prod-
ding with his staff.

OLD MAN SKILLS STAMINA 4

if you win, furn to 30.
309-310

399
You decide to hide in the ventilator shaft but, within
st, you are suddenly confronted by a red-haoded
humanoid who altacks you with a long, curved
knife.

RED-HOODED
TERRORIST SKILL 7 IAMINA 8

if vou win, turn to 78.

310
The Glip turns the red circle one segment anti-
clockwise before charging his steed into your flank.

RATING LASERS SHIELDS
GLIP 4 3 §
GRASSHOPPER ~ 3 10

~~

If vou win, then it is Scuttlebug’s phase. He elects
not to turn the blue ring at all. Turn to 212.
311-312

311
Presently, you close upon the planct a majestic
world of reds and greens, patched with swirling
white clouds. Grazing the atmosphere, your craft
begins to heat up; it is not long before the space-
weed, burnt to fine ash, produces a trailing, fiery
wake behind the Starspray. But when you turn away
from the planet towards space, your hull is sud-
denly pierced by a lightning bolt, surging from a
cloud below. The cabin pressure drops rapidly; as
you firht to maintain control, a fire breaks out in an
aft slorage pod. Booster power fails, and your ship
plummets towards a ridge of scarlet hills; a
crash-landing is imminent. Switching to manual
glide, you steer yourself between two rocky pin-
nacles into a long, narrovr valley. Looming ahead is
a dark Jake, surrounded by trees anda bank of erer
shingles. Vill you try to land on the lake (turn to 44),
oron the bank of shingles {turn to 96)?

312
You ate stunned by a gravity-bomb which det-
onates near by, Reduce your $H1#1.pS by 1 paint
perme rtly.

Starsprey: Pitch +44 - -- Roll +202 -. . Yaw +21 ---
Enemy: Pitch +35... Roll +60... Yaw +13. --
Relative speed 500 - .

|

373
Will you:
Accelerate to 1000, maintain course? Turn to 22
Accclerate to 2000, pitch +40, roll
+120, Vaw —26? Turn to 269
Maintain speed, pitch +30, yaw
+30? Turn to 347

313

You restin your spaceship until evening, while Krill
amasses his force: several hundred strong and
equipped with a variety of weapons, including
lasers, pulsers, blasters, blazers, flame-lances and
vacuum grenades. Under colourful banners they
march across the plains and over a roll of hills,
towards the enemy ship on Lake Droog. Several
hours later, the sky in that direction flashes with
orange and red; the attack has begun! Eventually,
your ear-twinge throbs to the sound of Krill's voice.
‘They're taking off. Now ~ attack!’ Simultaneously
you see, rising above the hills, a monstrous crystal-
line spaceship, bristling with laser-cannon. You
teke off and swoop into range.

DELPHON BATTLESHIP
RATING 5 LASERS 5 SHIELDS §

if you win, turn to 328.
as pe Peo]

314
The spheres turn and bear towards each other. Both
spheres manipulate their grabbers; both are blocked
by shields. With a thud, the ships ram. Deduct 1
point from your $1.4 Mina. A large crack appears in
your sphere and it begins to sink rapidly. Time is
running out, Will you:

Do nothing? Turn to 291
Whistle through a mouthpiece? Turn lo 109
Bite a blue chew-bulb? Turn to 338
Scream loudly? Turn to 47

315
Zud leads you towards the tavern: a slime-green
apartment with a large sign on the wall outside
reading: ‘DEAD FETHP INN — LIZARDOIOS AND
MUTANTS KELP Out!’ When Zud departs to his
chambers, you enter the inn. lium to §3-

316-317

316
You entera bowl-shaped chamber with an exitatthe
far side. As you enter, a voice speaks, “Roll the
titanium cubes to pass.” If you have any titanium
cubes, turn to 265; otherwise, turn to 152.

317
Your path is blocked by two Mutants, with clawed
arms extending from their faces and legs. “Too much
muscle, not enough fat on that one,’ growls one to
the other. “Yeah,” comes the reply, ‘but he'll taste
just fine after a good roastin’.’ They attack you with
flame-lances and iron prongs.

SKILL STAMINA
DROOLING MUTANT § 8
CLUMSY MUTANT 5 10

If you win, you decide to retreat from the causeway,
preferring to follow the path towards a series of low
hilis. Turn to 354.
318-319

328
You press on for miles, passing beneath arches of
streaked marble and swirling agate, beyond houses,
shrines and conseryatories, silent for over three
hundred years. The Dome of Marvels is still several
leagues to your west when the lanterns’ hues
change to maroon, cobalt and tired grey. High
above, the first of many tiny lamp-lights flicker and
sparkle into life — specks of brilliant white and gold,
shining like stars. Itis evening. At this time you see,
a mile or so ahead, the glow of a small, hand-held
lantern swaying gently back and forth. Its owner, a
tall, lean, sinister figure, appears to be swaggering
slowly towards you. Will you await his arrival (turn
to 349), or, hiding in a nearby shrine, allow him to
pass (turn to 267)?

319
The droid‘s master is Knill Babbit, a humanoid with
tanned grey skin and a large round nose supporting
a drooping moustache — he looks like a walnis! Still,
he is a pleasant enough sort. Yes, 1am the master of
this droid, these caves,’ he snorts, ‘and, once, this
entire planet. That was until Schaine, a war-sprite
from Delphon, arrived in her huge sky-ship, several
years ago.’ Ifyou have already encountered Schaine
the Delphon sprite, turn to 236; athenvise, tum fo

341,

320-321

320
Luckily, you perform the roll just in time, as a
spike-fighter was about foram rou. Now, wheeling
around Four new enemy’s fuselage, you release a
Searing Jaser-bolt.

VALIOOG SPIKE-
FIGHTER RATING 4 LASERS 3 SHIELDS 4

Lf you win, will you launch a lightning ball (turn to
243), approach the Yalioog mothership {turn to
369), perform a victory roll (tur to 389), or scan the
enemy ship electrically (turn to 215)?

321
All the circles now change colour: orange to green,
green to blue, blue to orange, Will you step on tile
C5 (turn to177), or tile D4 (turn to 396)?
322

322
As you near the posidon tank, you realize that itis
already occupied by a lanky, four-armed humanoid.
The Prefectas begin to snicker quietly among them-
selves as Marsatu recognizes the luckless figure.
Aftera moment's hesitation, Marsatu taps the glass
cylinder. ‘L’Bastin,” he inquires, ‘what are you
doing in there? [thought to find you as usual, seated
upon your throne,” From the ivory horn, a dreary
voice replies: ‘Marsatu, you idiot! Do you think I’m
in here for my pleasure? OF course nol! ‘Those
hideous monstrosities beside you — yes, the three
Prefectas — they have imprisoned me in here. Yes,
they do know I created them! Bah, they’te so un-
erateful! If T ever get out of here I'll... Aaghl’
Leaning forward, one of the Prefectas has pushed a
quill further into the tank. “Now, now, L.B.," it
chortles, as an excited tinselfish busies itself with
L’Bastin’s left earlobe, ‘you demean yourself
by bickering, and your threats don’t suit. You
Know, end soon everyone will find out, that we Pre-
fectas will tolerate nothing less than being treated as
lords and masters. And it is only proper that we
should be, for we are perfect, are we not? Perfect
ife-forms! | feel wonderful, because I at wonderful!
We alone are destined to rule the galaxy." With
that, the Prefecta launches into a lengthy speech
that would have made even giant Jym Ego
feel subservient. When it finishes, both Marsatu
and yourself are dragged away ty a prison cage,
where you await a gruelling interrogation. Turn

to 225.
323

323
After a while, you locate a signboard.

‘LOCATION! RED DOG CENTRAL... VALLTi...
BUILDING 13

it reads, and below this:
‘RESTRICTED ARFA ATTEAD. DANGERPF

Boldly, you follow a wide corridor inte this area,
passing numerous side passages before arriving ata
large, closed air-hatch. Projecting from the hatch are
two handles, one with a round, red pommel, the
other with a square, blue pommel. You recall that
you must reach the defence centre in Vault 6 in the
Dome of Marvels, and that the hatch before you
probably leads to Vault 2. Will you:

Tum the red and blue handles

clockwise? Turn to 93
Turn red clockwise, blue

anti-clockwise? Turn to 386
Turn red and blue anf<dockwise? Turnioz18
Turn red anti-clockwise, blue

clockwise? Turn io 192

324-325

374
You slowly wash the green slime from the creature.

Unluckily, you also uncover two other beasts,
which had been stuck for some time, and are now

quite hungry.

SKIELI. STAMINA
DUCK-BILL.
CATERPILLAR 8 6
ANGRY
YELLOW BLOB 6 6

if you win, turn to 387.

325
Brac’s laser burns a hole in the floor behind you,
showering you with molten metal. Deduct 1 point
from your STAMINA. The deadly laser again takes
aim. Will you roll left (turn to 158), or right (tum to
247)?
326-327

326
You soon get lost in the manor’s complex labyrinth
of corridors, stairways and twisting tunnels. Ex-
asperated, you open onc of the few doors you come
to and enter a spacious chamber, All the walls are
lined with shelves, and all the shelves are filled with
books, three-dimensional photographs, and myste-
Tiaus knick-knacks. You are in a private study.
Curiously for some reason, three books on one shelf
have been placed upside down. Will you take down:

Relotine Non-Relatrety? Turn to104
Poets of the 571 Century? Turn t 355
Babe's Book of Morenade Wines? Turn to 305

377

Bound and beaten, you are brought before the chief
spider, Queen Slin. “Well, well,’ she babbles, ‘this
one’s sO juicy and tender, and plenty of meat on
them bones. Not atall like most! receive. We lhang
you up for several days, mind, just to let you stew a
bit. Then it’s yum yummy’ On her orders you are
taken away and strung up in a thick cocoon, dang-
ling between hyo desert trees. To either side of you
are many other cocoons containing a vanety of
creatures, big and small, butall quite lifeless. Not far
away, 3 Solitary spider-puard is cunously examin-
ing the weapons recently taken from vou. The other
spiders have crawled into their underground nests
lo escape from the desert heat. Rall one die. Uf you
Toll 1, 2 or 3, turn io 374; if you roll 4 or 5, turn te 392;
if vou roll a 6, turn to 230-

328-331

328

The Delphon ship wabbies and jerks, then explodes
above the lake. Through the ear-twinge, you hear
Krill exclaim delightedly, “Well done! You have
destroyed the evil Schaine in her ship. We wish you
good fortune in your journey ahead. Farewell!’ You
perform an elaborate victory-coll betore rocketing
back into space. But immediately, you pick up a
weak distress signal on your radio, from some dis-
tance ahead. Will you yo to help (turn to 137), or
enter a light-warp to continue to Aarok (turn to
182)?

329
In order to increase speed, Captain Long-nose
orders vou overboard, to lighten his barge. Climb-
ing down a long rope, you reach the desert dunes
and watch the barge float away towards the city,
Tum to 282.

339

‘Very well, PT have them. Yes, they look quite
juicy.” Gnasha chews through all your bonds, then
looks at you. ‘I'm still hungry, and metal isn’t all [
eat! It licks its chops. "Oh, no you don’t,’ you reply,
and Kick it across the floor. [t rebounds from the wall
and lies, bruised and unconscious, on the ground.
Turn to 253-

332
Another pellet explodes. Deduct 3 points from your
STAMINA. The bandit leaps forward, scimitar in
hand, Turn to 343.
332-333

332
You outdistance the blob and reach a transit cylin-
derat the other end of the hall. However, when you
enter it you are confronted by an axe-wielding
humanoid who has been driven insane and now
believes yuu to be one of the blobs! You must defend
yourself against his attack.

INSANE CREWMAN
if you win, turn to 390.

SKILL5 STAMINAO

333
Several hours later, you approach a high tower

overshadowing the caustway. Marsatu explains:
‘Within the tower is a large, circular platform, called
the Roundabout. It consists of a central dise and
three rotating rings. If the rings are furned in the
proper sequence and thus activated, we can be
transported to anywhere on Aarok — even to the
Dome of Marvels. It isthe only way we can reach the
dome, but I fear we will encounter some trouble.
You see, only one person knows how to operate the
Tings, and that is ...° ‘Giant Jym Ego!’ booms a
mighty voice. From the tower a mighty man storms
out, fifteen feet tall with plaited hair and a curly red
beard. ‘And Jam he. I've been expecting you both.
Tow fare you, Marsatu? [haven't seen you for some
time. I’m afraid the toll’s risen again, so | hope vou
both have large purses and generous dispositions.
I've got expensive tastes. Ha, hal’ Legend has it that
the Roundabout was built long ago, to ensure that

334

Aarok’s enemies could never reach the defence
centre, At that time, the Roundabout could be con-
tolled only by its maker, a giant who collected a
small toll for his work. Before he died, he passed its
secrets on to his eldest son, who then became its
operator. The tradition has been retained, with
control passed from father to son, for thousands of
years. Three hundred years ago, when Aarok was
abandoned, the Roundabout's operator decided to
remain behind. Now his great-great-grandson,
giant [ym Ego, is in control. But Jym is boisterous
and greedy, a thoroughly despicable character . . .
‘Well, how much do you have?’ yells Jym. Of
course, Marsatu tock all your credits when he
offered to act as your guide. Now what will you do:
ask Marsatu for some money to pay your toll (turn to
168), atiempt to sweet-talk Jym into providing you
with a free tip (tur to 295}, or fight him and
try to operate the Roundabout yourself (turn
to 67)?

3#4

The old man winks and mumbles, ‘Good or ya‘! Bet
¥a’ one for it t’night, an® bet the answer's forty-two,
ya’ not. Have a dart at th’ Deik when it’s time, ha!’
He slips you a tiny dartgun. (Add this to your
Adventure Sheet.) While you are pondering his
words, he pushes you from your pit and takes it
over. Not wishing to argue, will you move towards
the brass gong {turn to 214), or examine the candle
{turn to 365)?
335-337

333

A large, grinning robol appears and prepares to exit
through two large doors which swivel apen for him.
Unfortunately, at this moment the bell-craft is
struck by a laser bolt. The doors are melted and the
rubot disintegrates. Deduct 3 points from your
STAMINA. Now, will you order an area pulser
attack on the enemy ships {turn to 198), or prepare
for a deep dive into the swamp (tur to 37)?

336
Your port retroais torn by a low-power tractor beam.
Reduce your SHIELDS by t point permanently.

Slarspray: Pitch +36.5 ... Rall +52 -.
Yaw +6.5...
Fnemy: Pitch +35 -.. Rall +fa...

Yaw +13...

Relative speed 2000 - - -

You may:
Maintain speed, yaw +10 Turn to 247
Maintain speed, roll —50 Turn to §2
Halve speed, pitch —50 ‘Turn to 142

337
Marsatu, squatting beside you, is peering beyond
the dome’s steeply curving rouftop to the ground,
half a mile below, But your two mechanical beasts
have nol appeared, and you strongly suspect ]ym of
thievery. Marsatu is certain of Ivm’‘s guill. ‘Swin-
dled by that pieantic gas-bag!’ he wheezes. ‘Tle’ll
338-339

pay for his insolence. I'll have him flayed skinless by
a ten-tatled prickle-puss! But first, to our business.
Down there, ‘ Marsatu points, “is the entrance. I'll
meet you down there.’ Pulling ona pair of magnetic
boots, Marsatu runs down the sloping sides of the
dome. Te has left you stranded. How will vou get
down? You examine the two spheres Marsatu gave
you earlier. If you have brought them with you, you
may now wish to use the sphere containing the
drill-helmet (turn to 4), the jet boots (turn to 156), or
power-gauntlels {urn to 46). If you have none of
these items, at do not wish to use them, tum to 196.

338
Justin time, your grabber leaps out and snatches the
key from the Deik’s hull. Opening your hatch, you
swim to the safety of the shore, while both spheres
sink rapidly to the battam of the lake. You have
won! Turn to 222.

339
As you tum and mun, laser bolts flash by. The

bubble-cars are beginning to catch up when you
nohce a small opening in the wall ahead- Diving
through, you find yourself in a small room. Green
steam and gas cover the floor. Sitting on 2 throne
before you is a huge, bulb-headed green monster,
chewing a tentacle. Looking up, it presses a stud on
its chair, anda gate falls down, blocking your
escape. ‘I seldom have the opportunity of eating a
victim alive inmy own home! it says. lt holds alofia
small titanium cube, which iE rolls. Roll one die. If

349-341

vou roll2, 2, 3 or 4, turn to 39; if you roll 5 or 6G, turn
to 66.

340
Several devices now attract your attention. You nay
examine a multi-armed robot, hanging on a wall
(turn to 304); a small, transparent hemisphere, no
larger than your hand (turn lo 149); oran unmarked
wooden box {lurn to 255)-

342
Knill continues: “Schaine landed her ship on Lake
Droog, where it stillresides. She brought an army of
mutants with her, which have killed or enslaved
many of my people. Still more have been trans-
muted into evil creatures by a complex bicx:hemical
process. Those of us remaining fled to these secret
caves. We have been powerless to stop her — until
now, that is!’ Krill reaches fur the high-tech curio of
rods, tubes and cubes which the droid had brought
back to the cave. “Schaine’s main power, of course,
is her mighty spaceship-fortress, from which she
launches her assaults. But this device, an interfera-
meter, will temporarily immobilize it, and allow us
to attack. My droid was bringing it to this planct
when he was attacked by Pelhon Rangers. He tells
me that you rescued him, and Lam indeed grateful.
So what do you desire? I may be able to help.’
You tell Knill about your mission, and that you
require a spacecraft to reach Aarok. ‘Thatis easy! A
backwards time-loop, with half a 6vist, should do
the trick! You shall get your own spaceship back!’
342-343

He disappears into a nearby apartment for a few
minutes. Roll one die. If you roll 1 or 2, turn to 33;
otherwise, turn to gt.

42

A mighty roar just behind Starspray buffets you
towards the Valioog mothership. Reduce your
SHIELDS by 1 point permunentiy, and deduct 1 point
from your STAMINA. Now, will you try your anti-
detector defences {turn to 70); select the image
intensifier scanscope (turn to 215); or risk activating
the atomic polarizer (turn to 90)?

343
You attack the bandit with your javelin.
BANDIT

SKILL F STAMINA S

If you win, turn to 293.

344

At dusk you stumble into a tiny hamlet of clay and
stone buildings. The ramshackle bungalows and
two-storey villas are in a bad state: the village has
Deen deserted for some time. But af least you can
guess, by the style of building, that the inhabitants
must have been humanoid. Marching throuh the
village, you come to a sign-post. Will you continue
along Spittlak’s Street (turn to 394), or turn left into
Winsome’s Way (fur to 204)?

345
You decide to tum the red ring one segment clock-
wise, then your phase ends. Glip turns the red ring
one segment anti-clackwise, but his path te you ts
blocked by a screen, so his phase ends, Scuttlebug
rotates the blue nng onesegment clockwise, and his
phase ends. Finally Mutant rotates the yellow ring
one segment anti-clockwise. He can see you at the
end of his phase, so he charges across the rings to
atlack. You begin swivelling the laser-cannon
attached to your mechanical beast towards him, but
you are too late. Me is upon you and you must firht

hand-to-~laww.
346-345

YELLOW MUTANT
If you win, another Mutant appears on the vacaled
spot on the red ring. The second move begins. Will

you turn the red ring one segment clockwise (turn to
250), or two segments anti-clockwise (turn to 158)?

SKILL F STAMINAS

346
You have just made a terrible mistake! The weed
spreads rapidly and fils your huge starboard
thruster. Both the Starspray and yourself are blown
to pieces.

347
Unluckily, you are baked by a powerful gamma-

beam.

348
On a radarscope, you watch an enemy blip to the
south disappear from the screen. But simul
laneously the speaker blares out, “Danger! In-
coming missile. . .° Thereisa mighty blast, blowing
the bell and yourself to pieces.

349-350

349

As the figure approaches, he appears to shrink
considerably and grow wider in the girth. What vou
mistook for a tall, dark, sinister figure was only this
man’s shadow, cast by his lantern’s light. Now
looking up at you is a dumpy old man with thick,
pursed lips, drooping evelids and a balding pate.
Like yourself, he has four arms, which are wrapped
snugly into the folds of a yoluminous green habit.
His footsteps are cushioned by his fluffy orange
moccasins. ‘Hail, stranger, and welcome!’ he exalts,
raising a pudgy hand. “Allis fine! A most enchant
ing evening is before us, is it not? But [see thal you
are weary. You have had many struggles, yes?’ He
peers a little closer: ‘I have a special remedy ta cure
alf your troubles. Yes, indeed! Perhaps you will join
me for refreshment —- my home is not far away.’ If
you wish to avail yourself of his generosity, turn to
5; if you wish to travel on alone, tim to 395.

50
All the square-shaped tiles change colour: vrange Lo
green, green to blue, blue to orange. You now have
no option but to step on tile E3; the circles now
change colour: orange to green, green to blue, blue ©
to orange. Now will you step on tile E4 (turn to 372),
or ile D3 (turn to 321)?
351-353

351

The sphere is a skew-dimensional container, warp-
ing volume. Within it, you appear minute, standing
in a broad green field with the sphere’s orange-
walled membrane stretching asway, miles above
your head. Huge dim faces appear in the sky above;
these are the inn’s patrons crowding round the
outside of the sphere, awaiting the contest, Across
the field towards vou strides a sprightly man, with a
sweeping black cape and 2 broad-brimmed hat. ‘1
am your first trial,” he states. ‘Tell me, how many
sreater stars orbit the plane of destiny? Answer
true, or I'l obliterate you!’ He offers you three
choices to this obscure question. Will you answer:

2? Turn to 42
65? Tum to 65
384? Turn to 384

352
A heavily armed, grinning robot appears, then exits
through a large hatch. Shortly afterwards there is a
sérics of loud explosions, and twa enemy blips
vanish from the radarscope. Now you order a miss-
ile attack on two more enemy ships. Turn to 198,

353
Your ship is a ridiculous contraption: all popped
rivets and buckled plates, and leaking like a sieve.
Crouching uncomfortably behind the tiny wheel-
house, you manocuyre the vessel, and yourself,
into deep water. Slowly, and in jerks, you approach
354-355

the enemy craft: a sleek white cutter bristling with
lasers — not at all what vou had expected. Your
chances appear slim. Will you fire a salvo into her
starboard side (turn to 146), or steam at full speed
across her bow (turn to 170)?

354
You follow a trail] over a ridge and on for perhaps a

quarter of a mile. Now, ahead, you can see the droid
again: he has been waylaid by a green mutant with
arms extending from its cheeks and thighs. You
decide to attack it and rescue the droid.

GREEN MUTANT
If you win, turn to 76.

SKILL 7 STAMINA 6

355
The book contains a booby-rap. When you open it,
you detonate a small explosive device —just enough
to give you a nasty shock. Deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA. You may now remove a book you had
not previously taken down:

Reluttwe Non-Relativity
Balst's Book of Homemade Wines

Turn to 104
Turn to 3905

356

356

You take the warder’s needle-gun. Increase your
SKILL by 1 point. When you turn towards L’Bastin,
you see that he is dying, shot by a stray needle
during your struggle. ‘Take the passage left, and
down the air-tube to Vault 7," he directs. ‘There you
will find my laboratory and the vats. Add the salt to
the mixture.” He coughs and whispers faintly, “One
more thing I would like you to know. The Prefectas,
even properly constnicted, are not the perfect life-
form. They are excellent warriors — nothing more.
You see, | did find out, through my experiments,
what the perfect organism is. They already exist—in
the natural environment. But they weren't suitable
for my plans of conquest. You see, they are. . .’ He
forces outa final word. No! They can't be thet! Surely
nou Well, what does it matter anyway. L’Bastin
closes his eyes and departs from the 3rd dimension.
[tis time for you to leave also. Following L'Bastin‘s
instructions, you creep along the passage towards
the air-tube- Test your Luck. If vou are Lucky, turn to
276; if you are Unlucky, turn to 388.
357-358

: 357 :
Reduce your oxygen supply by 2 points. Farkin
croaks as you thump him with your weapon. Tis
erip is loosening. Will you:

Tum to 95

Try a bear-huy?
5 Turn to 265

Tiead-butt Fog Farkin?

358
‘Very well,’ the speaker whines, ‘you have fe

quested manual control of auxiliary combat vehicle
BAB-1.' In front of your feet, a metal door suddenly
slides open and a tracked vehicle, sporting two
lasers and a grabbing crane, rises fom the leve
below. The metal crane seizes you and inserts you
into a tiny compartment high up on the machine-
Simultaneously two huge iran doors in front swivel
open, allowing you ta drive the vehicle out of the
bell. Revving your combat vehicle, you enter the
murky swamp. ‘Turn to 393.

359
Fog Parkin comes from a rare breed of monsters

called Chogs. Though lacking arms, Chogs are very
agile and, vou recall, havea deadly, natural weapon
- - -Like lightning, a flabby, leaf-like tongue powers
from Farkin’s larynx and glues itself to your face. Tt
is smothering you! You begin the following combat
with the ten oxygen supply points shown on your
Adventure Sheet; you will use up some of these
during your fight. Ifyou use them all up, fem you have
been suffocated and your adventure is over, Will you:

Use your strength to break free? Turn to 180
Grope for your laser-pistol? Turn to 134

Neck-chop Fog Farkin? Turn to 105
360

You receive a glancing blow trom a magnetic pulver-

izer, Reduce your SHie!.os by 1 point permanently.

Now your screens flash:

Starspray: Pitch +1.5 ... Roll +52...

Yaw —24-5-.-
Enemy: Pitch —35 ..- Roll +60...
Yaw +13...

Relative speed 2000 - . .
361

Will you:
Maintain speed and course? Turn to 285
Maintain speed, pitch +10? Tum ito 98
Increase speed ta 40007 Turn to 248

361

During this move, Glip turns the red circle one
segment anti-clockwise and attacks. After a tough
encounter you defeat him. Next, Scuttlebug turns
the blue ring one segment clockwise, but his path is
blocked by a screen, Finally Mutant turns the yellow
ring, one segment anti-clockwise, attacks, and is
defeated. Bul giant Iym Ego shakes his head. “That
was the fourth and last move of the game- I'm afraid
you didn’t defeat a Scuttlebug in time. Never mind!
So lonz, and thanks for the entertainment! Jym
pulls a lever, and you are obliterated.

362

362

You strip a whole row of its delicious contents and
cat them greedily. Unfortunately, they had been
Sprayed with a pesticide, so you have just poisoned
yourself! Deduct 3 points from your sTAMINA. If
you are still alive, vou scout around and observe
several items lving about which may prove useful
later on. Choose two from the following hst and add
them to your Adzenture Sheet.

pot plant
straw berries
shovel
weed-killer
broom
plastic hose

~

When you have chosen, you decide to follow a
coridor heading from the hall. Turn to 103.
363

Marsatu guides you through the yawning galeway,
inty the Dome of Marvels. You are most dis-
appointed. Apart irom a solitary egg-shaped obelisk
cemented into the floor, the interior is bare. ‘Ol
course,’ explains Marsatu, ‘this was ance a fabulous
place, filled with the wonders of the galaxy. Some of
the most famous artists in the universe performed
here. It was here that Madame Du Braguit, the
renowned comedian and political satirist, recited
her ‘Greatest Joke of the Universe’ before Aarok’s
king and hissh nobility. Unfortunately the king con-
strucd Madame Du Braggit’s joke as being a slur
against himself — and of course you know the rest of
the story. It is said that her headless ghost some-
times wanders into the dome, laughing hysterically,
thoush why she should do so, or even lune for that
matter, is beyond me!’ Marsatu now points towards
the obelisk. ‘That is the way to Vault 6, and the
defence centre. Your mission is almost at its end?
You both approach the obelisk, but justas you reach

364

it, 2 large Prefecta leaps out from behind it. ‘Peek-a-
boot it muses. ‘We've been expecting you both!’ It
moves towards you brandishing an electrified whip
and scythe. If you have either of them, you may
wish to use the sphere containing the metal hound
(fur to 288) or battle-armour (turn to 246}. Lf you

nave neither of these, or do nol wish to use them,
turn tO 275.

364

You agree with Captain Long-nose to act as look-
out and air sailor, in return for a voyage to Central
Gity, where he intends to make repairs to his ship.
The barge takes off and, at a height of fifty feet,
cruises towards the city walls. After a few hours,
you notice another ship approaching at speed from
the south. It is the barge of Captain Big-ears, your
captain’s rival. Roll one die. If you roll a 1, tum to
329; if you roll 2 or 5, turn to 286; if you roll 4 or 5,
turn to 249; if you roll a6, turn to 172.

365-367

365
As you touch it, the candle-figure screams vut in
annoyance. “You oaf! You've intermipted my
inedifation! Again it shneks, then spits hot wax at
you. Deduct 1 point from your STAMINA. All of this
unexpected commotion has awoken the Deik. Turn
to 10.

366
Your enemy launches a smart missile, complete
with lasers and shields.

SMART
MISSILE RATINGS LASERS2 SHIELDS 4

If you win, turn to 231.

367

You are dragged into the room you had first seen
through the window, where the man in the white
suit introduces himself as Woderwick. ‘Perhaps
you've heard of me —er, us,’ he says, glancing atthe
three-cyed cat who has been silently examining
you. Woderwick tells you that he and his cohorts are
a band of Tiberal-minded entrepreneurs’ (meaning
pirates); that you will be returned to your family
shortly, intact (mostly), after they have paid a ‘mod-
ést fansportation and accommodation fee’, mean-
ing a ransom. ‘Where are you from?’ asks Woder-
wick. You do not tell him. ‘Guards, take him below!’
They beat and bind you and, through a dim haze,
You are aware that you are being dragged into one of
the tetrahedrons near the mansion. Then you black
out. Turn to 237.
368-370

368
The computer asks you to verify that you have
selected plan 368, which you do. “Very well’ it
drones, ‘you have requested the “take “em all with
you” plan: annihilation of all craft within a fifty-mile
radius, using a ten-megaton bomb. Goodbye, cruc!
world!’ You are obliterated.

369
The Sterspray is punctured by many thousands vi

needle-like shards of a scintillating metal, released
from the Valioog ship. Reduce your sHittos by 7
point permanentiy, and deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA, Roaring away, will you now prefer to
operate an cleciro-magnetic scanscope (turn to 215);
switch off your Gauss Pandimonializer (tir to 389);
or push the flashing orange button on your console
(turn ta 342)?

The captain yells a spate of abuse at you, before
steering his craft away. Turn to 32.

371-374

371
When you touch a plastic spigot, both it and the
brass hoop to which it was attached dissolve, en-
abling you to exit the passage either to right (tum to
242), or to left (turn to 274), or vou may continue
along the passage towards the farther exit left (turn
to 257}.

372
the electrodes of both ships become entwined. By
the time they have unravelled, you are both badly
hurt. Deduct 4 points fram your sTAMINA. If you
are still alive, you may:

Pull outa crystal knob
Stamp your foot ona floor-plate

Turn to 291
‘Turn to 314

373
You blast the pillar to pieces; unfortunately, you kill
the creature you were trying to help, in the process.
You shrug and turn back up the passage, as there is
no other exit from the cavern. Turn to 140.

374

Aftera while, the rather paunchy guard crawls over
ty vou and prods your cocnan. Many of his bright
clustered eves have been blackened; stranyely,
these resemble the imprint of a boot heel! ‘Garn! I'll
make you suffer, you ugly, four-armed thing!’ it
hisses, shaking you and banging your head with a
rock. Deduct 1 point from your sTAMINA. Will you
answer him rudely (turn to 147), or pretend you
have been killed br his blow (turn to 138)?
375-376

375
The bluff gradually melts into a broad plain of black
earth, crazed with streams of whites, yellows,
greens and blues. You wander on for a little, but
soon you become lost in the falling darkness. At the
same time, you notice three small luminous globes
approaching from the eastern skies. These hover
above you for a few minutes before descending to
the ground. Now you recognize them — they are
casmuc jellyfish; you are in serious trouble! ‘Hey,
gnngo’ the fluorescent golden one calls out.
‘Hayen’t we met before, on another planet,
perhaps?’ ‘Si, si! pipes up a second one, sporting a
leather bandolier and a six-shot mega-blaster,
‘You're Jang Mistral! You busted us for Turdlebur-
der rustlin’ on Wayliff’s Asteroid three years ago!
We spent eighteen months in a tiny, nettle-tick-
infested gaol for that, so now you're gonna pay!’
These dudes mean business! You must defend

yourself as best you can.
SKILL STAMINA
KILLER KRUN 9 6
NOADO THE BANDIT § 4
| RUTHLESS ROD 6 a

| if you win, turn to 271.

at fi iy iS = é 376 ,

esa ar 5 Fora long time you struggle over the purple dunes,
baking under the blazing star of Sey. When evening
armives, you are still a long march away from the city
walls. Near by, a cluster of flat-topped pillars,

377-378

arranged in a rough circle, jut from the desert floor;
you are determined to camp there for the night. But
when you arrive, you hear a peculiar, low-pitched
gabbling: a pack of desert creatures, or mutants,
must have smelt you from the surrounding dunes.
You may wish to climb one of the pillars for safety
(turn to 281), or you could try to sneak quictly away
{turn lo 32),

377
In the afternoon you trek onwards, over massive

tumbling dunes, through troughs of sand and ash,
alony rucky desert valleys. Standing ona dune, you
notice two Jaryze air-barges. skimming frantically
across the desert, engaged in combat. Ev entually
one barge breaks away, trailing smoke and flames.
The ather barge is quite clase. Will vou wave at it fo
attract attention (turn to 186), or do you prefer to
hide and wait until it passes (ham to 32)?

378

From a distance, you see the bell-craft being torn to
pieces, and then sink inty the swamp. Several small
enemy craft are approaching your combat vehicle,

which has been badly damaged. But luckily, the aty
is not very far away, perhaps two miles. Even closer
than this, however, is a concrete launch wharf with
a hoyer-ship moored alongside, and a tubeway
terminal building. You steer your vehicle towards
them. Test your Luck. you are Lucky, turn to 169; if
you are Unlucky, turn to 235.

379-380

379
You enter 2 long, low compartment filled with

heavy throbbing equipment; it is the station's
pulser-drive engine-rvoom. Behind you tnuindles the
blob, which now forms itself into a sub-human
shape and continues to chase after you. You flee
along the hall towards a transit cylinder. During this
headlong pursuit, you observe a number of artefacts
hying around. You may snatch up two items, which
you hope will come m useful later on, from the
following list-

wrench

hammer

sonic screwdriver

fire extinsruisher
multifacetous aciduator
ball-bearing:

When you have decaded which 6yvo you require,
add them to your Adventure Sheet, then turn to 332-

380
in one villa vou are investigating you are assaulted
by 2 jump-pole: a peculiar creature resembling a
wooden stick, common to many planets, The mis-
chievous jump-pole, catching you tinawares, gives
you 2 sound clout behind the ears. Deduct 3 points
from your stamina. Unfortunately for the crea-
ture, you are quicker than it had anticipated. As it
bounds towards the door, you leap after itand seize
it in all four hands. [ts expressicn changes from one
of mischievous glee to absolute terror. ’Gahgo!
381-382

Aagit’ it creaks as you clumsily apply too much
pressure and break it in half. A pity! Jump-poles are
very knowledgeable, and this one could have pro-
vided you with a great deal of valuable information.
With little else of interest in the village, you now
leave via Spitflak’s Street, using half of the jump-
pole as a short staff! Turn to 160-

351
What!’ exclaims the toad, grabbing at the bag of
pellets. During your tussle, you drop the pouch.
The pellets detonate, there is a terrificroar, and you
are both consumed in a huge ball of fire.

382

You pass through the ovoid airlock and remove
your helmet. The air contains the faintest whiff of
rocket fuel. There is a leak, so you must be careful
not to use your laser sword or pistol here, for fear of
sparking an explosion. Ahead of you is a long
passage of gently tapering howps. Attached to many
hoops are strange spigots of glass or plastic. Further
along the passage is an exit to the left. You may walk
alung the passage towards the exit (turn to 257), or
examine a glass spigot (burn to 245), or a plastic
spigot (turn to 372).

383-386

383
You have badly misjudged, and slam into a massive
revolving pvion of the Grand Archipelago.

384
‘A false reply, heretic!’ Lhe old man raises a finger
and blasts you intp oblivion,

355

You re-enter the study, then, walking through
several walls, find yourself in the mansion’s old-
fashioned kitchen. Here, you disturb a gnimpy,
boil-nosed chef, who drops a newly baked soufflé
im his surprise. The ill-tempered creature grabs a
laser-carver and, using a large pot as a shield,
rounds on yen.

RATING LASERS SHIELDS

CHEF 5 2 8
YOUR
POLYARMOUR - 2 1)

If you win, you must discard the polyarmour, as its
power is draining and vou are finding it difficult Lo
move. Turn to 284-

386
A stale yellow gas hisses from the air-seal, but the
hatch will not budge. You may twist the handles in
any combination you have not yet tried — cither:

Tum red and blue handles clockwise Turn to 93
lurn red and blue ant-clockwise Tum to 118
Tum red anti-clockwise, blue

clockwise Turn to 192
387-390

387

‘Thank you! cries the creature you have just saved.
It is extremely grateful, and gives you one of its
possessions—a sensory capsule, which iticlls you to
insert into your back teeth. ‘It may help you escape
from a tricky situation,’ the beast tells you before
departing. (Add the sensory capsule to your Adven-
ture Sheef.) Now you return along the passage, as
there is no other exit from the cavern. Turn to 1409.

388
Near the air-tube, you are attacked by one of
L’Bastin’s roaming pets: a gigentic fanged
armadillo-bodied rhinoceros.

MUTATED RHINO
If you win, turn to 276,

SKILLZ STAMINAS

389
In an instant, you are blasted to atoms by a mighty
nuclear explosion.

390
You leave the transit cylinder and enter a bubble-
shaped dome. About you are computer terminals,
consoles, scanscopes and the like, all clicking noisily
and flashing in some deranged manner. Clumsily
you rest your elbow on a green button, causing 2
speaker to announce: ‘Alert, alert! Unauthorized
intruder! Cyborg anti-intruder defences activated!’
Steam whistles from several holes in the console,
badly scalding you. Deduct 3 points fom your

391-392

STAMINA. You hear the metallic pounding of a
cyborg’s feet, approaching the dome. You decide
hastily to exit through a hatch on the opposite side
of the dome. Will you pass through a round hatch
(furn to 9}, ora square hatch (turn to 167)?

392
in the heat of the afternoon, the spider curls up to
sleep. Fortuitously you have noticed, projecting
from the nearest cocoon, a number of long, sharp
quills, belonging to the luckless creature within.
You also have afew fingers poking from asmall hole

_ im your cocoon so, swinging yourself across,- you

manage to graba quill. Will you breakits tip off (turn
§0 157) or snap it off at its base (turn to 133)?

392
Climbing down a ladder, you enter the next level of

the ship. Within it are many machines and czaft,
some sill boxed up in large wooden crates. But
behind one crate, you encounter a grim little
robutyid who stares blandly at you, declaring:
‘Sorry mate, you have no authorization!’ He whirls
forward to attack.

LITTLE ROBOTOID
if vou win, turn to 340-

STAMINA &

Skiit 6

393-395

393
Several miles from the bell, you ate attacked by an

enemy mosquito-craft. You must defend yourself
with your combat vehicle's lasers.

RATING LASERS SHIELDS

MOSQUITO-

CRAFT 4 4 §
YOUR COMBAT

VEHICLE _ 2 10

If you win, turn to 378.

394

At the end of Spitflak’s Street you enter a hut,
intending to spend the nizht in comfort. After
fastening the door, you curl up ina corner to sleep.
During the carly hours of the morning, you are
awoken by the sounds of tinkling glass and metal
coming from the pavement outside. Will you iznare
the noise and go back to sleep (tum to 295).
approach the window and peer outside (Lurn tv 55),
or unbar the door and poke your head out (turn to
108)?

395
The old man asks vou again. ‘No, thank you all the

same,” you reply stiffly. You step on your sway, but
the old man, angry al vour refusal, whirls around
and slashes you with a powerful laser cutlass.
Mortally wounded, you fall to the ground, your
adventure over.
395-398

396
Allthe squares now change colour: orange to green,
green to blue, blue to orange. Will you step on tile
C4 (turn to 294), tile Ey then Es, (turn to 193), or tile
Ds (turn to 110)?

397
You are attacked by a tubeway guard and a number

of ill-tempered dignitaries who have congregated
near the gates.

SKILL STAMINA
LION-MASKED
GUARD 8 6
HOOK-NOSED
DIGNITARY 6 4
FOPPISH DIGNITARY 6 6

If you win, roll one die. lf you roll 1, 2, 3 or 4, tam to
262; if you roll 5 or 6, turn to 145-

3
Through a small hole in the side of the sphere, you
fire a dart. Well aimed, it pierces both your op-
ponent's ship and his shell. The Deik shrieks and
drops, stunned. Manipulating your controls, you
manaye to grab your key from the enemy sphere.
then open your hatch and swim to the safety of the

399-400

shore. You are just in ime to see both spheres sink
beneath the waves. You have won! Turn tv 222.

‘our laser fire cuts through the enemy's shields and
burns a hole in his huge ship which, spurting
smoke, himbers angrily towards you.

Starspray: Pitch +34... Roll +1427..Yawo...
Enemy: Pitch —35 ..- Roll 60... Yaw +13...
Relative speed toco ...

You may:

Accelerate to 2000, pitch +30, roll
—6o, yaw $5

Maintain speed, pitch +47.5, roll
=9o, yaw —6.5

Halve speed, pitch —60, roll +60,
yaw +5

Turn to 269
Tum to 112
Turn to 312

400
And so your mission ends successfully; single-
handed, vou have saved the galaxy! After several
minor adventures. you reach the surface of
Aarok and, piloting a disused spaceship, return to
Ensulina. Several months later, when Aarok has
been decontaminated and set in order, you retum
there at the head of a large colonizing fleet. In the
Dome of Marvels, the Grand Emperor himself will
crown you — galactic superhero, and first ruler of
New Aarok. Seon, you will begin a lony and just
Teign over a billion people. ..
ae
SEar
ASSAS: ii

