FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS

Over 10 million copies sold worldwide!

Sheer terror awaits you on the
Isle of Despair!

NOSMOVIZAAIS

The name Mordraneth stnkes tear into the
hearts of all who dwell in Titan :
Now hé bas tound a way to unleash a @
maxieal urmy af fear upon the laid. The
wizard Alsander has been kidnapped and
you must rescuc him from the fsle it
Despair, Bat will vou‘also enter the Enipire)

ANOLSONIATINVIGNY

~_

of Hhosten, confront Mondranerh and save
Pitan ;

Iwo dice, a peneil and-an eraserare ull you

need. YOU decide which paths to take

which dangers to tisk and which tocs to
Hitt!

3
a
a
=
°
=P
PY
E
es

Seb ubbeneeern™

A PUN BOOK
ISBN 0-14-032658-8

| ' N 90000
UA, £2.56 :
AUST 57.39 |
eceinmeanded! ) |
at see | HEI)

jimel. «= OT) 9 °780140"°526581
CAN, 64,95

B 8592 £0
LO N&SI

Ps

PUFFIN BOOKS
STEALER OF SOULS

YOU are a hardy and experienced adventurer. When the
wizard Vanestin summons you and offers you the chance of
riches and glory, you can hardly wait! But wealth and fame
are less important to the world of Titan than the success of
your mission; for if you fail, the Stealer of Souls will ravage
the land. The Stealer of Souls is Mordraneth, an evil Arch-
mage who has found a magical way of unleashing ail fears
and nightmares upon the innocent -- and even the not-so-
innocent — inhabitants of Titan! This is what he is poised to
do-and only YOU can stop him!

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you need to embark

on this thrilling adventure, which is complete with its elabo-

rate combat system and a score sheet to record your gains
and losses.

Many dangers lie ahead and your success is by no means
certain. It’s up to YOU to decide which route to follow,
which dangers to nsk and. which adversaries to fight!

Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks

THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP MOUNTAIN
THE CITADEL OF CHAOS

THE FOREST OF DOOM
STARSHIP TRAVELLER

CITY OF THIEVES
DEATHTRAP DUNGEON
ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING
SCORPION SWAMP

CAVERNS OF THE SNOW WITCH
HOUSE OF HELL

TALISMAN OF DEATH

SPACE ASSASSIN

FREEWAY FIGHTER

TEMPLE OF TERROR

THE RINGS OF KETHER

SEAS OF BLOOD
APPOINTMENT WITH F E.A.R
REBEL PLANET

DEMONS OF THE DEEP
SWORD OF THE SAMURAI
TRIAL OF CHAMPIONS
ROBOT COMMANDO

MASKS OF MAYHEM
CREATURE OF HAVOC
BENEATH NIGHTMARE CASTLE
CRYPT OF THE SORCERER
STAR STRIDER

PHANTOMS OF FEAR
MIDNIGHT ROGUE

CHASMS OF MALICE
BATTLEBLADE WARRIOR
SLAVES OF THE ABYSS

SKY LORD

DAGGERS OF DARKNESS
ARMIES OF DEATH

Steve Jackson's SORCERY!
1. The Shamutend Hills

2 Kharé - Cityport of Traps
3. The Seven Serpents

4. The Crown of Kings

FIGHTING FANTASY - The Role-playing Game
THE RIDDLING REAVER

OUT OF THE PIT - Fighting Fantasy Monsters
TITAN — The Fighting Fantasy World

Steve Jackson
Ian Livingstone

PRESENT

TEALER 2& SOULS

Keith Martin
Illustrated by Russ Nicholson

Puffin Books
PUFFIN BOOKS

Rublished by the Penguin Group
27 Wrights Lane, London ws 57z, England
Viking Penguin Inc., 40 West 23rd Street, New York, New York 10010, US A
Penguin Books Australis Lid, Ringwood, Victorla, Australia
Penguin Boaks Canada Ltd, 2801 John Street, Markham, Ontano, Canada 13R nq
Penguin Books (NZ) Lid, 182-190 Wairau Road, Auckland 10, New Zealand
Penguin Books Ltd, Registered Offices: Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England

First publiahed 1988
3579106642

Concept copyright © Steve Jackson and Tan Livingstane, 1988

Text copyright © Keith Martin, 1988
Hlustrations copyright © Russ Nicholson, 1988
All righis reserved

Filmsel in 11/13pi Linotron Palatino by
Rowland Ph i
Bury Si Edmunds, Suffolk, England
Printed and bound in Great Britain by
Cox & Wyman Ltd, Reading

Excepl in the United States of America,

thie book is sald subject to the condidon
that it shall neal, by way of trade or otherwise,

be kent, resold, hired out, or otherwise arculated
without the publisher's prior consent in any form of

bind!ng or cover other than that in which It js

Published and without a similar condition

including this condition dcing umpased
on the subsequent purchaser

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION
7
ADVENTURE SHEET
16

BACKGROUND
18

STEALER OF SOULS
<3

INTRODUCTION

Before embarking on your adventure, you must first
find out your own strengths and weaknesses. You
use dice to determine your initial SKILL, STAMINA
and Luck scores. On pages 16-17 there is an Adven-
ture Sheet which you may use to record the details of
the adventure. On it you will find boxes for record-
ing your SKILL, STAMINA and LUCK scores.

You are advised either to record your scores on the
Adventure Sheet, using a pencil, or to make photo-
copies of the page for use in this adventure.

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one die. Add 6 to this number, then enter this
total in the SKILL box on the Adventure Sheet (your
score will be between 7 and 12 inclusive).

Roll two dice. Add 12 to the number rolled, then
enter this total in the STAMINA box on the Adventure
Sheet (so your score will lie between 14 and 24).

Roll one die, add 6 to this number, then enter this
total in the Luck box on the Adventure Sheet (so this
score will be between 7 and 12 inclusive).

For reasons that will be explained below, sKILL,
STAMINA and LUCK scores change constantly dur-
ing the adventure. You must keep an accurate

7
record of these scores and the changes to them; for
this reason, you are advised either to write small in
the boxes or to keep an eraser handy. But never rub
out your Initial scores. Although you may be
awarded additional skin1, sTAMINA and LucK
points, these additions cannot raise any score above
its Initial value, except on very rare occasions, and
you will be instructed accordingly when this is to
happen,

Your SKILL score reflects your swordsmanship and
general fighting expertise; the higher the better,
Your STAMINA score reflects your general constitu-
tion, your will to survive, your determination and
overall fiess, and your ability to take blows in
combats; the higher your sTAMINA score, the
longer you will be able to survive. Your Lucx score
indicates how naturally lucky a person you are,
Luck — and magic — are facts of life in the exciting
fantasy world you are about to explore!

= } “

; ve

Magic

During your adventure, you will probably find
many magic items — although you may not realize at
first that they are magical and you will not be certain
what they do. You may also be taught to use various
spells; but, to begin with, you are a warrior, and you

must succeed in your great adventure by using your
wits and, when necessary, your sword!

8

Battles

You will often come across pages in the book which
instruct you to fight a creature of some sort. An
option to flee may be given, but if not — or if you
choose to attack the creature anyway — you must
resolve the battle as described below.

First, record the creature’s SKILL and STAMINA
scores in the first vacant Monster Encounter Box on
your Adventure Sheet. The scores for each creature
are given in the book each time you have an en-
counter. The sequence of combat is then:

1. Roll the two dice once for the creature. Add its
SKILL score. This total is the creature’s Attack
Strength.

2. Roll the two dice once for yourself. Add your
Own SKILL score. This total is your Attack
Strength.

3. If your Attack Strength is higher than that of the
creature, you have wounded it: proceed to step
4. If the creature’s Attack Strength is higher than
yours, it has wounded you: proceed to step 5. If
both Attack Strength totals are the same, you
have avoided each other's blows; start the next
Attack Round from step i above.

4. You have wounded the creature, so subtract 2
points from its STAMINA score. You may use
your LucK score here to do additional damage
(see below, Using Luck in Battles). Proceed to step
6.

5. The creature has wounded you, so subtract 2

9

points from your own STAMINA score. Again,
you may use LUCK, this time to reduce the dam-
age the creature does to you (see below, Using
Luck in Battles). Proceed to step 6.

6. Make the appropriate changes to either the
creature’s or your OWN STAMINA Score (and to
your LUCK score if you used LUCK ~ see below).

7- Begin the next Attack Round (repeat steps 1 to 6).
This sequence continues until the sTaMINA
score of either you or the creature you are
fighting has been reduced to zero (death).

Fighting More Than One Creature

If you come across more than one creature in a
particular encounter, the instructions on that page
will tell you how to handle the battle. Sometimes
you will have to fight them all together; sometimes
you will fight each in turn, one after the other.

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either in
battles or when you come across situations in which
you could be either Lucky or Unlucky (details of
these are given on the relevant pages), you may call
on your LUCK to make the outcome more favour-
able. But beware! Using Lucx is a risky business

and if you are Unlucky, the results could be dis-
astrous.

This procedure is known as Testing your Luck and

10

works as follows: roll two dice. If the number rolled
is equal to or less than your current LUCK score, you
have been Lucky and the result will go in your
favour. If the number rolled is higher than your
current LUCK score, you have been Unlucky and
will be penalized.

Each time you Test your Luck, you must subtract 1
point from your current LUCK score, whether the
outcome was successful or unsuccessful! Thus you
will soon realize that the more you rely on your
LUCK, the more risky this will become.

If things go so badly that your LUCK is reduced to 1
or zero, you will automatically be Unlucky when-
ever you are forced to Test your Luck. So, don’t be too
hasty or prodigal in resorting to Testing your Luck.

Using Luck in Battles

On certain pages of the book you will be told to Test
your Luck and you will then be told the con-
sequences of your being Lucky or Unlucky. How-
ever, in battles you always have the option of using
your LUCK, either to inflict a more serious wound
on a creature you have just wounded or to minimize
the effects of a wound that the creature has just
inflicted on you.

If you have just wounded the creature you are fight-
ing, you may Test your Luck as described above. Ifyou
are Lucky, you have inflicted a severe wound and
may subtract an extra 2 points from the creature's

11

a  ____

STAMINA score (so that you subtract a total of 4
points, rather than the usual 2). However, if you
are Unlucky, the wound was a mere graze and you
must restore 1 point to the creature's STAMINA
score (i.e., instead of your blow causing the usual 2
points of damage, the creature’s STAMINA is re-
duced by only 1 point).

If the creature has just wounded you, you may Test
your Luck to try to minimize the wound. If you are
Lucky, you have managed to avoid the full force of
the blow and may restore 1 point of your own
STAMINA (i.e., instead of the creature’s blow caus-
ing 2 points of damage against your STAMINA, itis
reduced by only 1 point). But if you are Unlucky,
then you have taken a more serious blow and must
subtract 1 extra STAMINA point (you have to deduct
a total of 3 points from your STAMINA rather than
the usual 2),

Remember: you must subtract 1 point from your
current LUCK score each time you Test your Luck.

Restoring Skill, Stamina and Luck

Skill

Your SKILL score will not change much during the
adventure. Occasionally, a page may give instruc-
hons to increase or decrease your SKILL score. A
Magic Weapon may increase your sx1Lt; but re-
member that only one weapon can be used ata time

12

— you cannot claim two SK1LL bonuses for carrying
two Magic Swords! Your SKILL score cannot exceed
its Initial value unless specifically instructed.

Stamina and Provisions

Your STAMINA score will change a lot during your
adventure as you fight creatures and undertake
arduous tasks. As you near your goal, your
STAMINA score may drop dangerously low and
battles may be particularly risky, so be careful!

Your backpack contains enough Provisions for ten
meals, You may rest and eat at any time except
when fighting, but you may eat only one meal at a
time. Eating a meal restores 4 STAMINA points.
When you eat a meal, add 4 points to your current
STAMINA score and deduct 1 point from your Pro-
visions on your Adventure Sheet. A separate Pro-
visions Remaining Box is provided on the Adventure
Sheet for recording details of Provisions. Remember
that you have a long way to go, so use your Provi-
sions wisely! Remember also that your STAMINA
score may never exceed its Initial value unless you
are specifically instructed.

13

a

Luck

Your LUCK score will also change during the adven-
ture as you Test your Luck; additions to your LUCK
score may also be awarded after you have been
especially fortunate. Details are given on the rel-
evant pages of this book. Remember that, as with
SKILL and STAMINA scores, your LUCK score may
never exceed its Initial value unless specifically
noted ona page.

Equipment

You will start your adventure with a bare minimum
of equipment, but you will find other items during
your travels; there may be quite a few items, but
they will fit into your backpack. You are armed with
a Sword and are dressed in leather armour. You also
catry a Shield. You have a backpack to hold your
Provisions and any treasures or other items you
may find. You also carry a lantern which you can
use to light your way when necessary.

Hints on Play

Your journey will be perilous, and you may well fail
on your first attempt. Make notes and draw a map
as you explore—this map will prove invaluable later
on, enabling you to progress more rapidly to unex-
plored sections in future adventures.

Not all areas contain treasure: many will contain
merely traps and creatures which you will no doubt

14

fall foul of. You will doubtless make wrong turnings
during your quest; while you may indeed progress
through to your ultimate destination, it is by no
means certain that you will there find what you are
searching for.

Be very cautious about taking the option to Test your
Luck unless the page tells you that you must do this!
Generally, when it comes to fights you should Test
your Luck only to keep yourself alive if a creature’s
blow might otherwise kill you. Don’t Test your Luck
for trying to obtain extra damage upon your enemy
unless this is really necessary! LUCK points are
precious!

You will quickly realize that the paragraphs make
no sense if read in numerical order. It is essential
that you read only those paragraphs that you are
instructed to read. Reading other pages will only
cause confusion and may well lessen the excitement
during play.

The one true way to success in this adventure
involves minimizing risk; any player, no matter
how weak his or her initial dice-rolls, should be able
to come through successfully to the final glory.

May the luck of the Gods go with you on the
adventure ahead!

15
ADVENTURE SHEET

MONSTER ENCOUNTER BOXES

SKILL id STAMINA LUCK
Initial Initial Initial
Skill == Stamina = Luck =
ITEMS OF TREASURE
EQUIPMENT
CARRIED
PROVISIONS
NOTES
16

—
Skill = Skill = Skill =
Stamina = Stamina = Stamina =
Skill = Skill = Skill =
Stamina = Stamina = Stamina =
Skill = Skill = Skill =
Stamina = Stamina = Stamina =
Skilf = Skill = Skill =
Stamina = Stamina = Stamina =

17
BACKGROUND

Vanestin of Pollua ... a mage. You don’t know
him, but he has requested your presence, and his
messengers were gracious. They had even made all
the arrangements: coach fares paid, money for
meals and indulgences along the way. . . whatever
itis that he wants, he knows how to treat a valiant
warrior. And now that you are with him, you can
see from his beautiful home that he is a man of
means and, surely, of power and influence. After
greeting you, he has breathed simply one word to
begin his proposition to you: aname . . -

. . . His origins may be unknown, but his is a name
whispered in secret places, and it has come to your
ears before: Mordraneth, Dark mage, a man of guile
and cunning, ane who has mastery of arcane secrets
shunned by good magicians, a dealer in death and
destruction who smiles as he slays. The Elves have
spoken of him with fear, and you have drunk Skull-
buster - that fearsome brew — with a grizzled Dwarf
veteran who slapped you on the back with the only
arm he had left after an encounter with Mordraneth.
You weren’t certain what to expect from the man
who uttered his name simply to test your reaction,
but you weren’t expecting this.

You keep your reactions to yourself as he gazes at
you, you take the time to study him. Vanestin is a

18

powerful man, tall and strong, lean and still young.
Not what you might have expected in a wizard! You
sit in his sumptuous chamber, overlooking the har-
bour in Pollua, sipping his fine wine. You raise your
eyebrows at the name but say nothing. Vanestin
looks hard at you, and then proceeds with his story.

‘You've heard of him, of course. A servant of Evil
and Chaos, a mage of no mean skill, and possessed
of a fiendish cunning. To defeat his purpose, we
need your skill and courage. If you will accept the
task Toffer . . .. Now he stops pacing the room, sits
down, and his voice has a keener edge to it.

‘Two weeks ago, agents of Mordraneth kidnapped a
wizard here, Alsander, who was occupied in
magical research into Mordraneth’s schemings. I
last saw Alsander a few days before he disappeared,
and he was excited and worried then. He warned
me that Mordraneth was using magical energies to
draw power in some way from the realms of the
dead, and he urged me to consult with him again
when he had had a little more time to study the
problem. Alas, when I called upon him he was
gone, with all his notes.

19

OO EEE
‘But by magical scrying, we have found where
Alsander is, and he is still alive. Your task is not as
desperate as you may have thought when I spoke
Mordraneth’s name. We do not require you to slay
him; we need you to bring Alsander back to us.’ He
pauses to offer you more wine, and he sees that you
are a little disappointed ~ what a scalp Mordraneth’s
would be to boast about! Vanestin is quick to
counter that.

‘If you can rescue Alsander, you may gain the
knowledge and power to overcome Mordraneth
himself. I can’t think of anyone more capable to
undertake it.’ You smile at his flattery. ‘Interested?’
He hardly needs your nod.

‘Mordraneth has tried to fool us, but for once his
ruse has failed. From our spies we know that the evil
one is in Allansia . . . but we have also discovered
that Alsander is imprisoned elsewhere. Mor-
draneth expects us to come for him, in the belief that
he has Alsander with him. Well, we won’t dis-
appoint him. A ship has already sailed for Allansia
with warriors and mages aboard. Just a diversion, of
course, although we’ve made sure that his spies
have heard of it as a serious mission. But you, my
friend, will be making for the real quarry.

20

‘Mordraneth has hidden Alsander on the Isle of
Despair, a small island just off the eastern coast of
the Island of Scars. Deep within the Iron Crypts he
has hidden him. Why he has not slain him, I do not
know — but this I do know: we need desperately to
find out what Alsander had discovered, and we
must get him back alive. And you are the warrior
to do it. One brave hero can penetrate defences
secretly and silently, where a group would raise too
many alarms and thereby fail. And a wizard would
be useless there; no magic works within the Iron
Crypts save that which Mordraneth himself uses.
No; it is a brave and fearless warrior we need. A
small ship, the Petrel, is waiting.

‘Will you accept this quest? If you don’t, then my
magic will ensure that you will remember nothing of
what I have said when you leave. I cannot afford
any idle gossip .. .” but he is smiling, for he has
seen your hand move to your scabbard at the pros-
pect of the adventure. ‘Gold and glory, my friend, I
can promise you both in abundance! Let us drink to
it— but not too much. The tide will be favourable in
but a few hours!’

NOW TURN OVER!

21

1

Fair weather and a good easterly breeze have sped
you along your way. You should reach the Isle of
Despair in but a day or two. Garaeth, the ship’s
captain, has been well paid, and you had no prob-
lems arranging for him to pick you up after you have
completed your quest. But now dark clouds are
gathering and a gale is picking up. The captain gives
orders for battening down the hatches, and pre-
pares to run before the wind. The first heavy drops
of rain splatter down on the wooden deck. As you
prepare to go below, acry goes up from a crewman
and your gaze follows his pointing finger; a huge
black bird with a wing-span of yards — and out-
stretched talons — is plummeting down from the
leaden sky, straight towards you! If you want to
Hee, turn to 55. If you wish to stay and fight the
menace, turn to 127.

2-3

2

Mordraneth’s magical creations can sometimes
create fear in you; when this happens, your skill in
combat will be undermined. You may use the ‘Dis-
pel Fear’ speli at any time to negate all_the effects
fear has on you (but this will not protect you against
a later attack of fear, should you be subjected to
one). If you are in combat and wish to cast this spell,
you can do so; however, you cannot do anything
else in that Attack Round, and your opponent will
score a free hit against you, doing the usual 2 points
of damage. Return to 188.

You are now fighting the young guard, who does
not look very strong but who is very nimble and
agile, so his speed makes him a dangerous enemy!

GUARD

If you win, turn to 282.

SKILL 9 STAMINA 7

4-5

Beyond the east door is a dank, unlit passageway.
The air is stale, and an unpleasant smell lingers in it;
this gets stronger as you make your way towards
the thick wooden door with iron bands which
stands at the end of the passage. You listen at the
door, but hear nothing. As you prepare to move in,
the door opens from the other side, and before you
stands the biggest Troll you've ever seen! He is
HUGE, and he carries a massive club. You cannot
Tun away, for he can easily outrun you and will
strike you down from behind. You must fight him.

TROLL

If you win, turn to 226.

SKILL 8 STAMINA 9

Your ‘Speed’ spell allows you to run amazingly
quickly and you just escape the enclosing walls. As
they crunch together, you just make it to the black
passageway at the end of the chamber. Turn to 296.

es i
6-7

6

The door opens into a cluttered, filthy and reeking
chamber, the lair of two Rat Men, Gleefully they
grab their swords, which are stained with filth, and
attack you. The smell here is so repulsive that, for
the duration of this combat only, your $KIL1 score is
2 points less than normal, due to your nausea, (Do
not change the sx score on your Adventure Sheet;
this is only a temporary alteration.) Fight the Rat
Men one ata time.

SKILL STAMINA
First RAT MAN 5 5
SecondRATMAN 5 6

If you win, turn to 57.

7

The passageway turns north and then widens be-
fore opening out into a rock-strewn chamber, into
which daylight streams; you can see the clouds and
sky beyond. There is a clutter of straw and twigs in
the far corner of the chamber. Do you want to enter
the chamber (turn to 354) or go back south and west,
retracing your steps (turn to 314)?

8
The statue crushes the gem and sprinkles gem dust
on you. You gain 1 LUCK point. The statue gestures
towards the stairs, ushering you upwards and on-
wards. You ascend to a passageway beyond. Turn
to 287.

9
You sleep comfortably and soundly, and you regain
2 STAMINA points. In the morning, you may either
return to the trail and set off north-west (turn to 339)
or open the trapdoor and investigate what is below
{turn to 157).

10-11

10
Just before mid-day you notice that the trail ahead is
petering out and the hills are getting very steep
indeed. This can’t be the right way! Suddenly, a
weird croaking voice sounds from your left:
‘Greetingsssss! Have you lost your way?’ You spin
round to see a very large grey lizard with a yellow
ruff of skin-folds around its neck, poking out its
head from behind a rocky outcrop at you. Do you
want to:

Attack the lizard? Turn to 360
Stay where you are and say ‘hello’

or something similar? Turn to 86
Run away back south? Turn to 54

11

You take a swing at your enemy with your sword,
galvanized by fear of what the effect of his spell
might be. You don’t hit him, but you do force him to
duck, ruining his concentration so that his spell-
casting is spoiled. Cursing you, he draws from his
belt a vicious double-thonged flail with wicked
strips of jagged metal studded into the thick leather!
You will have to overcome him in physical combat
now; turn to 321.

i

12-13

12
Obviously, whatever is in the chest must be of
value, given the nature of its guardian; so you move
closer to examine the chest. You try to open it; now
you must Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to
399. If you are Unlucky, turn to 164.

13

... You regain consciousness. Your vision slowly
clears, and you realize you are lying on your
stomach with someone smacking you on the back as
you cough up... nothing! You slowly turn your
head to see a thin-faced young man with piercing
green eyes and wearing prey robes. ‘Anillusion,’ he
says, ‘but effective. Since you believed you were
drowning, getting what you thought was water out
of your lungs seems to have helped.’ He notices
your look of surprise at meeting anyone helpful
here! ‘I’m Parazan, Mordraneth’s apprentice. The
man’s mad; if you can overcome him, good luck to
you. I’m escaping now! Ihope this helps,’ and as he
disappears into thin air you notice the golden flask
he has left behind. If you want to open the flask and
sip its contents now, turn to 165. If you want to keep
the flask for later, add the Golden Flask to the list of
Equipment Carried on your Adventure Sheet, and
turn to 387.

14-15

14

You duck behind the vegetation, and the Hobgob-
lins don’t see you. They exchange some heavy
blows, and then one runs the other through with its
sword. It gloats in celebration of the kill, then moves
to the cottage door. The wounded Hobgoblin man-
ages to draw a dagger and groan, its last act being to
fling the weapon and pierce the other in the back
They’re both dead. Turn to 135.

15
Now, will you take the light, airy passage (turn to
319) or open some iron gates and walk down the

trosty passage beyond (turn to 331)?

16-17

16

At the start of a combat, you may cast the ‘Fire
Globe’ spell at your opponent instead of using your
sword. When you cast the spell, a small ball of
orange fire will shoot from the palm of your hand
and fly at your enemy, automatically hitting him
and inflicting 6 points of damage. You may use this
spell only in the first Attack Round of a combat.
Return to 188.

17

Beyond the door is a torch-lit passage which leads
westwards and then bends round to the south. You
notice that it is not dusty but clean, so you deduce
that many people may pass along it regularly. There
may be many foes here, but perhaps also someone
who might be helpful if you are lucky and care-
ful. . .Soon you come toa T-junction, and here you
can either take the eastern passage (turn to 228) or
the western passage (turn to 97).

18-20

18

Do you have a bunch of keys? If you do, turn to 211.
# you don’t, you cannot open the securely locked
door, so you decide to head off south instead; turn
t 227.

19
You try the Ebony Key in the lock. . . but when you
turn it, it simply disappears — and the door still
won't open! (Cross the key off your Equipment list—
itis lost to you now.) Turn to 243.

20

The Ogre’s chamber is clean and well furnished —by
ogrish standards. You take the 3 Gold Pieces from
the large table (add these to your Treasure on your
Adventure Sheet) and look around. Ona smaller table
by his rough straw bed the Ogre has some hard
bread and cheese —a little mouldy, but edible if you
pare away the hard rind. There are sufficient Pro-
visions for two meals here, and you may take this
food (add 2 to your Provisions list). There is also a
pewter ale tankard on the floor which you may pick
up and put in your backpack if you wish (if you do,
acid this to the list of Equipment Carried on your
Adventure Sheet).

a1

The Ogre stirs and you spin around. You didn’t
quite finish him off! With a dying grunt he junges
forward and presses with all his might on a panel in
the stone wall before expiring. You watch, horror-
struck and immobile, as a grille of VERY thick iron
bars crashes down from the ceiling in the southern
passage, blocking your way back. You cannot hope
to bend these massive bars or squeeze between
them, and pressing the panel again has no effect.
Now there can be no retreat. . . cursing, you head
for the other door and set off to the west. Turn
to 280.

21
No sooner have you won your tough fight than you
hear loud voices coming from the south — more
Natives, and lots of them! Even you cannot hope to
fight a score or more of these men. You run at full
speed back towards the north. This leaves you
almost exhausted; deduct 4 points from your
STAMINA. You have no time to stop and eat a meal
so, if this loss reduces your STAMINA points to zero,
then you collapse with exhaustion on the trail; the
Natives catch up with you and slay you to avenge
their friends. Your adventure ends here.

If you get away alive, you are back at the crossroads.
Looking north, you see that the skull marking the
way north is covered with blood and, as you look at
it, its jaws open and blood spurts out on to the
ground! Horrified, you make up your mind to head
west. Turn to 181.

22-24

22
You row like one possessed and get to the shore,
outpacing the crab. But this takes a lot of effort, se
you must deduct 2 points from your STAMINA.
Turn to 102.

23
You cast the spell and race away. You easily outrun
the squeaking horde, and very soon make it to the
end of the sewer. Turn to 152.

24
Searching through the skulls you find nothing, but
as you handle them a faint sound begins to arise: a
soft moaning, like a creature in pain. Then blood
starts to well up in the eye-sockets of the skulls! You
step back in horror and get out of the room, slam-
ming the door behind you to shut out the keening
wails. Deduct 1 Luck point. Now you must open
one of the other doors, either the one in the north
wall (turn to 377) or the one in the west wall (turn to

205).

prc trrrtlrtC eee
oo Dae rs AN ‘ : MY) Wins tee ~faak ob we
4 oon pork ey ey} : ety 2 ty

25-27

25
You charge into the room, to discover three Orcs
sitting round a table, drinking ale and gambling
with dice. The Orcs curse and draw their weapons.
However, you have gained surprise over them, so
you can lash out at one of them before they can
strike at you, Turn to 185 to fight them - and you
may subtract 2 STAMINA points from the score of
the first Orc you fight because of your initial blow.

26

Looking around, you see that there is just one
passageway from this chamber -— leading south — but
surely there is something useful to be found in all
this debris? You sift through all the bloodied bones
and feathers and find nothing of any note, then you
look up at the ledge. It’s a good 18 feet up, and the
rock surface is very sheer. You’d have no chance of
climbing this normally. Do you have a grappling
iron and a 15-foot length of rope? If you do, turn to
162. If you don’t, you must take the south passage,
So turn to 42.

27
Roll one die; if the result is a 1, turn to 370. Other-
wise, turn to 344.

=—..
——

eee
es

28-30

28

A grim sight unfolds before your eyes as you look
round the door. Fierce heat radiates from a huge
metal brazier filled with white-hot coals, from
which a number of branding-iron handles are pro-
jecting. Tables carry brass vessels, clawed pincers
and pliers; even more horrid items are scattered all
round the room. You have also been seen by the
room’s occupant, a misshapen creature with green-
brown skin and huge muscular limbs covered in
wiry tufts of black hair. But he just grins at you,
showing the yellowed stumps of rotten teeth, and
gestures you in. You can either attack him (turn to
92) or go in and talk with him (turn to 220).

29

As you show the snakes the Snake Glove, they rise
up and sway, and then collect together in a huge
writhing spiral in the centre of the room. Slowly
they wind together and form a wriggling column of
scaly forms, which is transformed into a staff like
the one shown on the glove! You take the staff in
your hands, and as you hold it you regain 4
STAMINA points and 1 LUCK point. You know that
this will drain the staff of its power, so you leave it
here. Now, you may take either the azure (tum to
272) or the ochre (turn to 77) passageway at the end
of this chamber.

30
Mordraneth’s Fire Globe fizzes through the air and
envelops you in burning flame before you can finish

31-33

casting your own ‘Fire Globe’ spell! Your spellcast-
ing is ruined, and you cannot use your ‘Fire Globe’
spell again. Deduct 6 points from your STAMINA. If
you are still alive, you run pell-mell up the right-
hand set of steps as Mordraneth prepares another
spell. You can almost reach him with your sword,
but not quite yet! Turn to 351.

31
You cannot make it in time, and the Skeletal Dlusion
strikes you in the back. Lose 2 points from your
STAMINA. Then your enemy appears in front of
you! Turn to 397.

32
You cross the Jong chamber, but the heat is so
powerful that in places the rocks are glowing, and it
drains you of strength. Deduct 3 points from your
STAMINA. But at last you get to the orange passage,
where it is cooler. Turn to 362.

33
Since the Orc is obviously friendly, you start to talk,
and ask him what he knows about torturers and any
prisoners about the place. ‘Yer,’ he says, ‘there’s ole
wossisface, the ‘arf-ogre. Good enturrtainer, ’e is.
Lessus watch sometimes. Last week we ‘ad an
advenchoorer in and ’e impaled ‘im on barbed
‘ooks.’ The Orc rubs his hands with pleasure at the
memory. It has already occurred to you that, if
you're not careful, it could be you next. You decide
you don’t want to hear any more of this, so you

34-37

set off along the passageway, westwards; tum
to 97.

34
Do you have an Ebony Key? If you do, turn to 386. If
you don’t, turn to 171.

35
Beyond the door is a narrow passage leading north,

which comes to a dead end. You can either retrace
your steps back through the storeroom to the main
north passage (turn to 284) or investigate the dead
end (turn to 365). -
36

You enter the huge chamber in which stand tombs
and mausoleums made of grey stone, with exquisite
embellishments. You feel yourself becoming
hypnotized by the singing, and you want to stay
and listen to it for ever, it seems so timelessly
beautiful. You could stay here for ever... and,
hardly aware of the life-draining embraces of the
wraiths that arise from the shadows to surround
you, this is precisely what happens. The songs turn
to screams and you hear the terrible cries of torment
from tortured souls. Your mind will become part of
Mordraneth’s pitiless magic, and you have failed in
your quest.

37
You don’t move — but he does. The illusion melts
away, so that you can see the black-robed Dark

38-40

Priest for what he is . . . but not before a spell of
magical cold has wrapped you in numbing black-
ness. Deduct 6 points from your STAMINA. If you
are still alive, he moves in to finish you off with his
mace. Turn to 367.

38
The trail splits; you can either head north, where
you can see hilly terrain and bracken in the distance
(turn to 238), or you can continue west along what
appears to be a fairly well-used mud track (turn to

349).

39
The Sprite thanks you for your mercy; in return for

sparing his life he gives you a small pouch with
three tiny bags of ‘Luck Powder’. Add these to the
st of Equipment Carried on your Adventure Sheet.
Each of these bags contains a sprinkling of magical
dust which, if shaken on your hands, will restore 1
LUCK point. You may use this magic to restore lost
LUCK points at any time except during a combat.
Shame-facedly, the Sprite promises not to disturb
you again.

You wake next morning fairly refreshed by your
sleep and regain 2 STAM1Na points. Turn to 103.

40

Trying to bend the iron railings is a very hard test of
your abilities. Roll two dice and add 3 to the number
vou roll. If the total is less than or equal to your

41-42

current SKILL score, then you have succeeded in
bending the bars apart and you can squeeze
through them (turn to 326). If the total is greater
than your current SKILL score, turn to 312.

41

The Orcs admire the bone dice. ‘Luvverly bit uv
work,’ one of them says as he gulps down another
pint of Brain Damage. ‘Fancy a little gamble then?’ If
you have some Treasure and are willing to gamble
ona dice game, turn to 291. If you have no Treasure,
or are unwilling to gamble, turn to 180.

42

You head south, back to an east-west passageway.
To the east, a pall of black smoke blocks your path.
The choking fumes make that way impassable, so
you must head west and then follow that passage-
way as it bends southwards. Turn to 218.

43-46

43
The sleeper is now fully awake. Irrespective of what

you say, he looks at you with deep suspicion, and
says, ‘You're not one of us! I know all the Master's

men!’ He draws his sword; you’re going to have to
fight him.

GUARD
if you win, turn to 357.

SKILL 6 STAMINA 8

Having overcome your formidable enemy, you take
some keys from his belt and release the prisoner
from the cell in which he is being kept; from the
darkened cell, full of filthy straw and lice, you lead a
weak old man, his white hair and beard streaked
with dirt. If you have any Provisions or a magical
‘potion of healing’, you must give him one or the
other now, for you have a feeling that his magic will
increase your chances of escape from here, and he
will need all his strength to use it. He thanks you for
vour kindness. Turn to 140.

45
Do you have a crowbar? If you do, turn to 141. If you

don’t, turn to 396.

46
At last you are fighting with your sword against the
evil Arch-mage! But he is swift and deadly as a
warrior too, and uses his sword well. His green eyes
glitter in the flaring light of the smouldering braziers

47-49

as he attempts to slay you. Will you triumph or be
slain at the last?
MORDRANETH

If you win, turn to 400.

SKILL 10 STAMINA 17

7
Your magical Ring of Fire Resistance minimizes the
damage you take, so you have to deduct only 1
STAMINA point. You're nearly half-way up, but you
can see your enemy preparing another attack! Turn
to 351.

48
What will you use against the rats? Will you get out:
A white gem? Turn to 327
A block of incense? Turn to 64
A silver feather? Turn to 232
An ivory statuette? Turn to 93

49

You reckon that you can pry open the lid of the chest
with a crowbar — but, as you jam the hook of the
crowbar under the lid and make your first attempt,
the resistance of the chest is terrific. You can be sure
that it will take a great deal of strength, and some
STAMINA loss, to get this chest open — and you
cannot even be certain of success. You can try again
to open it (turn to 316) or give up the attempt, return
to the main passage, and open the door at the
southern end of it (turn to 124).

50-51

50
In the room beyond the small door you quickly spot
a trapdoor in the floor which is half covered by a
tatty rug, and heavily barred from your side. The
room is sparsely furnished: a bed with clean bed-
ding, a chair and a table on which stands a small
portable incense-burner. Do you have any blocks of
incense? If you do, turn to 234. If you don’t, turn to

305.

51
The passageway winds on to the west and seems to
come toa dead end — but you can make out faint rays
of daylight through the wall at the end of it! Clearly,
someone slipped up when installing this illusion
here! Cautiously you poke at the wall, and find that
you can step through it safely. As you do, you see
that there is a passageway going south which you
could take (if you do, turn to 42); alternatively, you
could follow a narrow passageway that goes north
into a daylight-filled chamber, from which you can
hear alow cawing noise and the sound of something
being horribly ripped apart (turn to 385).

52-53

52
As you enter, an unexpected event makes you jump
m alarm. On the west wall of the chamber is an
etched stone face, a hideous and gnarled visage
with cruel fangs. Your medallion flares briefly with
white light; the closed eyes of the stone face open,
and smooth jet-black eyes turn to look at you! This
experience makes you feel like getting out fast;
fortunately, you can try a door in the east wall of this
chamber (turn to 313) or another in the south wall
{turn to 121).

53
You make good progress, but eventually it grows

dark, and you know there will be no moonlight to
guide you, so you must stop and rest. The best
shelter you can find is a rock overhang; so you
bivouac there, after collecting a few dry twigs and
the like to spread around your resting place in order
w give you warning of any approaching marauder
m the night. Nothing disturbs you, but you manage
no more than a fitful doze. Still feeling rather weary,
wou arise at dawn as the first rays of sunshine
Stretch across the pale blue, cloudless sky to greet
Fou, and you set off along the trail once more. Turn

339.

54-55

54
Running quickly back towards the south, you reach
the turning to your right and head west along it; but
you are very tired from running so fast and must
deduct 2 STAMINA points. Turn to 349.

55
You are too slow to evade the diving bird; you will
have to fight it after all. What's more, the sharp
yellow-tipped black talons of the bird tear at your
back as you turn and try to run; you lose 2 STAMINA
points. Turn to 127.

56-57

56
¥ do not know of such a place,’ he says sadly, ‘but I
believe there is some kind of evil shrine to the
south-west. Perhaps this is what you seek.’ Now
you may either ask him about the scroll, if you have
® (turn to 302), or take your leave and head off
southwards (turn to 250).

57
The Rat Men’s room is quite disgustingly dirty and

kttered with debris; you can see nothing of obvious
value or interest lying around here. Nor are there
any doors or passages leading from the room, save
For the one you entered by. If you wish to make a
thorough search of the room, turn to 259. If you
prefer to get out now and head back southwards,
tum to 303.

58

The stairs continue upwards for some distance, and
lime passes as you slog on, so you must eat a meal
here. You are growing weary from your exertions,
and you know that soon you should find some-
where safe to rest and sleep. But you can hardly do
this on the stairs! Your footfalls echo gently on the
stone steps, and strange whisperings and chitter-
ings flit among the ghostly cobwebs on the mould-
streaked walls. You must have a light source to
move safely up the stairs (your lantern, or a Magic
sword if you have one).

At last you reach a landing at the top of the stairs
There is a rotten-looking wooden stepladder stand-
ing here, covered in mould, and in the ceiling you
see a wooden trapdoor. You look around, but there
is no other way out, and going back down the stairs
is pointless. Gingerly you ascend the ladder. You’ re
going to have to open the trapdoor, so you summon
up all your strength and push hard. Roll one die. If
the score is 1 or 2, turn to 265. If the score is 3 or
higher, turn to 375.

59-60

You enter a gloomy, dirty and rather small room in
which two bored Orcs are sitting at a table gnawing
2t a roast Dwarf joint. They look cruel and mean,
and have their swords ready to hand. They attack at
ance; in the doorway, you can fight them one at a
=e.

SKILL STAMINA
First ORC 5 4
Second ORC 5 6

H you win, tum to 264.

60
The young man laughs with incredulity. ‘Oh yeah?
And I’ma goblin’s granny!’ Before you can react, he
nicks your arm with his dagger. Lose 2 STAMINA
points. Now you must fight him, so turn to 3.

61-63

61

Alsander looks weary and pale after teaching you
his spells. ‘I have just enough strength to teleport
home,’ he whispers. ‘Oh, I nearly forgot. . . how to
get to the Empire of IMusions. There’s a secret door
over there,’ and he points to the centre of the south
wall. “Go through it and follow the passageway. |
must warn you: there are two evil Dark Elves down
there, and beyond their lair is a teleport device
which will take you to Mordraneth’s deepest lair. If
you can slay him, the illusions will disappear, and
you'll be able to find a way out. Use the magic I have
taught you wisely, for you can use each spell but
once!’ Then he murmurs a few words, and his body
shimmers and is gone, teleported back to Pollua.

You make your preparations and set off to confront
the Dark Elves, Turn to 281.

62
You drag yourself up on to the plateau. Crawling
across the rock to stay out of the howling wind, you
finally reach a brown passage, and at last you can
stand up, dust yourself off, and press onwards.
Turn to 247.

63
You race up the stone steps, but Mordraneth is able
to attack you with a spell before you can get to him.
You see a ball of fire shooting towards you, leaving a
thin plume of black smoke hanging in the air. Are
you wearing a bronze ring? If you are, turn to 226. If
vou aren’t, turn to 190.

64-66

64
The incense makes no difference to the swarming
rats, Deduct 1 STAMINA point through wasting
time retrieving the item while the rat-pack was
biting; now you realize your mistake and run away
Turn to 251

65
Now, you can either search the scattered piles of
debris in this room (turn to 343) or leave this place
and set off west along the passageway (turn to 97).

66

The cowled figure sprays a volley of blue whirling
icy darts from his fingers and they fly through the
air at you. Roll one die and add 1 to the total; this
number is the number of STAMINA points you lose
as these icy, numbing missiles strike you. Now the
evil figure whirls a vicious metal-studded black flail
to finish you off with. Turn to 321.

67-69

67
Do you have a silver feather? If you do, and you
want to offer it to him, turn to 83. If you want to offer
some other item, turn to 235.

68
You dodge past the statue and race up the stairs.
Behind you, you hear no sounds of the statue
following you. You breathe a sigh of relief and
ascend to the passageway beyond. Turn to 287,

69
As you attack, the illusion vanishes! The man, no
longer in chains, is clad in dark flowing robes and he
wields a heavy ebony mace. You are in combat with
a fearsome enemy, a Dark Priest! Turn to 367.

70-71

70

You beach your boat - but hardly are you out of t
water on to the pebbled shore when an angry giaht
comes rushing at you from the north. His massive
muscles are knotted with rage, and his fists — the
size of hams — clutch a massive oaken club, ‘You
killed Edwina!’ he roars, and you realize he must be
reterring to his pet crab. There is a trail to the west,
but the giant is already upon you: you're going to
have to fight him. Turn to 240.

The old man is barely conscious and is clearly very
weak; his lips are cracked and dry and his skin is
ashen, You give him some food and water to revive
him; subtract 1 from your Provisions list. Slowly he
gains strength and at last is able to speak. He tells
you that he isa herbalist who has come to the island
seeking rare medicinal herbs. The two Hobgoblins

had captured him and were arguing over which of

them was to kill him! He thanks you for your help,
but says that there is little he can do in returm, since

7*-74

the Hobgoblins ate his food and burned all his
herbs. But he would like to help if he can. Will you:

Ask him the way to the Iron Crypts? Turn to 56
Ask him about the scroll (if you

have it)? Turn to 302
Take your leave and retrace your

steps towards the south? Tum to 250

72
Following the passage east, you ignore a turning to
the south which you know only leads back to the
goblin room, and you press on eastwards. Turn to
160

73
You slay the Orcs, then look around their room;

save for them and their inferior weapons and the
dice and coins on the table, there does not seem to
De much here. Will you:

Open the north door? Turn to 346
Open the east door? Turn to 4
Search the room? Turn to 137

74
None of the many keys on the bunch you took from

the Troll will fit the door and you just can’t open it!
Will you now:

Try using the phial of White Oil,

if you have it? Turn to 138
Give up and try the west door? Turn to 358
Give up and go south? Turn to 283

75-77

75
You enter a well-furnished room with carpets,

paintings and fine ornaments, lit by ornate oil-
lamps. On a fur-covered bed lies a man who is
wearing chain-mail and has a scabbarded sword at
his belt; he was obviously sleeping, but your entry
has awakened him. Turn to 43.

76

You are now fighting a wily, strong half-Ogre! He
advances on you brandishing a heated iron from the
brazier, and you will need all your skill to beat
him!

HALF-OGRE

TORTURER SKILL 8 STAMINA 14

If you win, turn to 273.

77
The ochre passage has a rocky floor, and the air is

dry and warm. You walk along carefully, in order to
avoid stubbing your toes on the rocks which are
scattered over the ground. You entera long, narrow
ochre chamber. At the far end of it you see a dark
tunnel in which flares and gouts of red light flicker
trom time to time. You head towards this, but you
are only half-way across the chamber when you
hear a loud crunching sound, as if of moving stone.
The walls are moving in to crush you! You see that
even if you run flat out, you will be desperately
fortunate to make the dark passageway in the dis-
tance before you are crushed to death. Will you:

78—80
Cast a spell? Turn to 372
Use an item from your backpack? Turn to 45
Run as fast as you can and hope? Turn to 396

78
Before you can complete the casting of your spell,
Mordraneth’s own spell hits you; a ball of lightning,
blue and sparking, fizzes through the air and ham-
mers into your chest. Deduct 4 sTAMINA points;
also your own spellcasting is ruined; and you can-
not use your spell again. Now, assuming you are
still alive, you can take either the left-hand set of
steps to the balcony (turn to 332) or the right-hand
set of steps up (turn to 63).

79
As the whirling magical bolus whistles through the

air towards you, your silver ring seems to absorb it
into itself. The ring, which felt so dead and lifeless,
must be able to absorb at least some kinds of magic—
and may have just saved your life! Now you race to
the top of the steps and you can fight the wizard.
Turn to 46.

80
You cannot fight the rat-pack; there are simply far
too many of them. Deduct 1 point from your
STAMINA, and then you must flee down the sewer.
Turn to 251.

81-83

81
Do you have a crowbar? If you do, turn to 49. If you
don’t, turn to 233.

§2

Beyond the door is a dark room, with satins and
silks draped over a long table. Crossed knives
with sharp, serrated blades decorate the walls,
together with pinioned skulls. A powerful
emanation of evil radiates from here, and you feel
the hairs standing up on the nape of your neck;
lose 1 LUCK point. You want to get away, so you
open the door to the east in the Orc’s room; turn
to 123.

83

The Birdman takes the silver feather with a strange,
cawing cry of joy and puts it ona silver chain round
his neck (cross the silver feather off the list of
Equipment Carried on your Adventure Sheet). The
Birdman has trouble speaking your language, but
eventually you learn much from his stumbling
words.

He tells you that an intense magical evil in
the {ron Crypts is driving his people out of the
mountain; but this feather - a magic which the
Birdmen know how to use — will protect them. He
says that the ‘evil ones’ have a prisoner deep
within the Iron Crypts, and that there is a half-
ogre torturer there also. Lastly, he warns you that
there is a vicious predator to the west which has

84-85

just taken up residence: a Razorbeak Bird. The
Birdman knows that this bird has stolen a magical
item from a wizard recently, and that this might be
helpful to you, but you'll have to kill the bird to get
it - and that won't be easy! Thanking you for
your gift, he flies off to join his fellows. Turn to
292.

84

You are fighting a Stone Golem. It strikes at you
with its hard stone fists, and itis not easy to parry or
strike successfully with an ordinary sword. When
you succeed in hitting your adversary, you must roll
one die; on a roll of 1 or 2, your blow is ineffective
and does no damage to the Golem.

STONE GOLEM

If you win, you take the stairs up past the shattered
Golem; turn to 287.

SKILL 8 STAMINA 11

85
You become confused as you travel along. You are
lost, increasingly hred, and you must sit down and
eat another meal or lose all but 1 STAMINA point. As
you lean back against the rough wall for support, a
pair of stone claws encircle your arms! You have
fallen into the clutches of the Stone Shapeshifter, an
ancient and evil rock-being which preys on those
who wander in these subterranean realms. Your
scream of horror is smothered as a wet stone pro-
tuberance wraps around yout face, and you are
slowly absorbed into the stone wall. Your quest

86-87

ends here, for the Stone Shapeshifter’s evil patience
nas been rewarded once again.

86

The strange talking lizard seems friendly, and it
wants your help. It tells you that a foul pair of
predators, Giant Stormbirds, are in the habit of
stealing its eggs. The lizard can't climb up to the
birds’ nest to drive them away. It wants you to kill
che birds for it, and it promises you a reward —a fine
rosy-pink pearl! Will you:

Say you've already killed one

Stormbird? Turn to 378
Agree to help the lizard? Turn to 256
Refuse to help? Turn to 119

87

As you rush to the attack, the Hobgoblins forget
‘heir differences and turn to attack you! You must
Sght both of them together. Roll two dice and add
vour SKILL score; then roll two dice for each of the
Hobgoblins every Attack Round and add their
SKILL scores. The combatant with the highest
Attack Strength is the one who will get in a success-
ful strike during that Attack Round.

SKILL STAMINA
First HOBGOBLIN 5 6
Second HOBGOBLIN 6 7

Ik vou win, turn fo 135.
88-90

88

After a cursory look around, the Goblin departs.
You wait for an hour, then another, thena third. . .
but nothing happens. You really should have tried
to lure the Goblin out! Now you will have to make
your way out of the catacombs and back overland to
the main trail leading north, and during this time
you must eat two meals (make the necessary deduc-
ton from your Provisions on your Adventure Sheet).
Tum to 53.

89
You win at the gambling game; rol! one die: this is
the number of Gold Pieces you win from the Orcs.
Add your winnings to your Treasure on your Adven-
ture Sheet. The Orcs drown their sorrows in more of
their foul beer; you take care to drink only a very
little! Turn to 254.

go
The lock and hinges on this door are very rusty, and
the door looks very solid. Will you:

Try smashing down the door? Turn to 210
Try using an Ebony Key to open

the door? Turn to 275
Try using the bunch of keys to

open the door? Turn to 74
Try using the phial of White

Oil to lubricate the lock

and/or hinges of the door? Turn to 238
Give up and try the west door? Turn to 358

91-92

Give up and head south down
the passage? Tum to 283
g1
Although there are valuables here — the carpets and
furs — you can hardly carry them around with you.
However, there are two other items of value. First,
while the warrior’s sword is inferior to your own,
his chain-mail armour is certainly better than your
leather armour! You can put this on (add it to the list
of Equipment Carried on your Adventure Sheet), and
it will add 1 point of SKILL to your total. This addi-
Gon will grant you a higher SKILL score than your
Initial level — unless that Initial level was 11 or 12 (you're
so good it won’t make any difference!). You also
find a crowbar, and you may take this if you wish
(if you do, add it to the list of Equipment Carried
on your Adventure Sheet). You leave this room and
try the southern door in the next room; turn to 245.

You are now fighting a wily and strong half-Ogre!
He advances on you wielding a barbed metal rod
mounted on a short wooden pole-arm, and he is no
mean opponent!

HALF-OGRE
TORTURER

if you win, turn to 44.

SKILL 8 STAMINA 14

a

93-94

93
-s you produce the ivory cat statuette, it seems to

glow and grow in size. The rats shrink back. It gets
tigger and bigger, and the rats begin to flee, squeak-
mg in terror, as a huge spectral cat chases them back
down the sewer! You continue your journey with-
cut being troubled; turn to 152.

You are in a spell combat with Mordraneth, for you
are both casting ‘Fire Globe’ spells at each other!
You must first roll two dice for each of you, then add
wour respective SKILL scores (Mordraneth’s sKILL
ts 10), to determine who has the higher Attack
dirength for this Attack Round. [f you have the
higher Attack Strength, turn to 222. If Mordraneth
has the higher Attack Strength, turn to 174.
95-96

95
As the skeletal figure approaches, your medallion

shines brightly; you take a swing at the figure with
your sword — and it disappears into wisps of smoke,
struck by your sword and the glittering white light
cast by the medallion! But now the medallion grows
dim and dull, and you suspect its powers are ex-
hausted. Now, you can either follow the blue
passageway (turn to 261) or the violet passageway
{turn to 150).

96
You look around and pick up the 8 Gold Pieces the
Dark Elves had (add this to your Treasure on your
Adventure Sheet), but beside this you see a better
treasure still. Wrapped in large moist broadleaf
wrappings are six small flat loaves of sweet whey-
bread — each one equivalent to a full meal! You may
add 6 to your Provisions list on your Adventure Sheet
for these. The rich smell of spices, the glitter of
silks and other treasures do not tempt you, for you
cannot carry these items. To the east of the room,
you see an archway leading to a small circular

97

chamber and you approach to look at it. In the
centre is a raised podium on which a swirl of rain-
bow colours eddies and flows . . . the teleport de-
vice Alsander told you of! Breathing in deeply, you
step into the waves of light, and the room fades
fom your sight. Where will you arrive? To find out,
turn to 229.

97
The passageway goes on westwards, and then turns

south again; once more it is clear that you are
treading a well-frequented path. At the end of the
passage you observe a wooden door with a handle
bearing an ornate door-plaque of bronze and a
silvered door-handle. Just before this, there is a
side-passage to the east, at the end of which is
a small door which has a sign affixed to it:
‘DANGER! KEEP OUT! Do you want to open the
southern door at the end of the corridor (turn to 124)
or investigate the east door at the end of the side-
passage (turn to 172)?

-. -

98-99

98
You can see an obvious and definitely not concealed
door at the end of the corridor — but you now alse

find a concealed door in the west wall of the

passage, about ten yards away from it. Cautiously
you open the secret door and pass along the narrow
tunnel beyond. This tunnel is very dark, and you
will need a light source to see by. It is dusty and
damp, and the air is very stale. The tunnel winds to
the west, then southwards, and then tums east
again to an apparent dead end; you guess that there
must be another secret door at the end of it. You
burst through that door, which opens into the west
wall of a room beyond. There are two Orcs in this
room, sitting at a table and eating a joint of roast
Dwarf; with the benefit of surprise, however, you
slay one before he can even get up! Turn to 59, and
fight the second Orc there only.

You search the Orc’s room, but find only empty
crates and some packing, a bed and a table anda
pair of rickety chairs. However, in one crate you do
find a 15-foot length of rope, and you may take this
if you wish (if you do, add it to the list of Equipment
Carried on your Adventure Sheet}. Looking around,
you see that there is only one exit, a door in the
north wall, so you open it and move along the
passage beyond. After a few yards you find that you
can either continue on north (turn to 284) or investi-
gate a door at the end of a small side-passage to the
east (turn to 304).

100-101

100
Sefore you, in the south passage, stands a skeletal
Sgure armed with a thonged flail! The Skeleton Man
sdvances on you, so you will have to fight him.

SKELETON MAN
EB you win, turn to 241.

SKILL 8 STAMINA 6

101

In the morning, before departing you can ask
Alkandi about the Message Scroll, if you have it. If
you wish to do this, turn to the paragraph with the
same number as that written on the scroll. As you
are about to leave, the shaman tells you not to turn
north when you get back to the crossroads, for his
people have seen dangerous Hobgoblins in that
direction. You thank him for his advice (add 1 LUCK
point). You take your leave and head north to the
crossroads (turn to 181).
102-103

102
You beach your boat and look around. To the west is
a trail leading towards the hilly interior of the island,
and to the south there is a tall white cliff which bars
your way. Appearing out of the wispy mist to the
north looms a huge figure —a giant, almost sixteen
teet tall, clad in green and his hair a tangle of kelp
and shells that he wears for decoration. He is
muscular and carries a massive club. ‘Hello, hu-
man,’ he booms. Will you:

Attack him? Turn to 240
Greet him in return? Turn to 328
Run away to the west? Turn to 257

103
You set off on a fine day, with the cries of seabirds in
your ears, and before long you arrive at a cross-
toads. By the side of the path to the north, there
stands a wooden pole with a skull atop it, By the
southern path, there is a bloodied fistful of bird’s
teathers on a pointed stick. There is nothing to mark
the path which continues westwards. Will you:

Go north? Turn to 327
Go west? Turn to 181
Go south? Turn to 128

104-105

104
After a few minutes, you hear the sound of foot-
steps coming down the passage from beyond the
railinged gates. Taking a careful peek, you observe a
Goblin who is standing idly by them on the other
side! You can either keep still and do nothing (tum
to 88); otherwise you may try making some slight
noise while staying out of sight to see what happens
(if you do this, turn to 348).

105

Will you take out a pewter ale tankard (turn to 276),
a pair of bone dice (turn to 41), or both items if you
have both (tum to 276)?

eee |

f

106-107

106

Now the passageway branches. You can continue
on eastwards or you can take a side-turning to the
north. Daylight gleams faintly from the northern
pessage, but you can also hear faint rending sounds
that are not at all pleasant coming from that direc-
Son. If you wish to go east, turn to 253. If you wish
~ go north, turn to 155.

107

You open the door quietly and discover a comfort-
ably appointed room lit with ornate wall-lamps.
Thete are fine carpets, a large cushion, and wall-
paintings decorating the room; lying on a fur-
=overed bed a man wearing a chain-mail vest is
sleeping. A sword is scabbarded at his belt. Will
Pou:

Leave him and open the southern

door? Turn to 245
Kill him? Turn to 290
Wake him and try to talk with

him? Turn to 43

108—109

108
The old man looks pitiful and defeated as he sees a
fresh tormentor advancing on him - or so he thinks.
Gently, you help him up. Do you have a bunch of
keys? If you do, turn to 289. If you don’t, turn to 369.

109
The snakes lunge forward to attack, and one bites
through your leather leggings; the venomous fangs
sink into your flesh. Other bites follow, and you fall,
dying from the effects of the deadly poison. You
have failed in your quest.

110-111

110
You have made it to the balcony much faster than
the wizard expected, for your ‘Speed’ spell coun-
tered the Spell of ‘Slowing’ he placed on the steps.

Mordraneth reaches for his sword, but you are very
fast and you strike him, causing 2 points of damage.
Turn to 46 to finish the fight, and deduct 2 points
from Mordraneth’s sTAMINA Score as given in that

paragraph!

111

The huge Dragon disappears - another of Mor-
draneth’s illusions! By now, you're hardly aware
what is real and what is not — but such a spectacular
Wlusion must surely be close to the lair of the evil
wizard himself. . . you cross the chamber and press
on, down the violet passage beyond. Turn to 150.

112

112

You move along the grey passageway, and the air
strikes chilly and dank. Horribly, behind you the
passageway starts to shrink away to nothing, clos-
me up behind you, and you have to run to avoid
being swallowed up by it. You min into a chamber
which is the colour of yellowed, leprous bone, and
you see tombs and great sepulchres stretching out
before you. Steps lead down to crypts with barred
doors of bronze and brass, The place is bone-
mumbingly cold, and a low moaning starts to fill the
air. Suddenly, before your horrified eyes, a spectral
shrouded figure rises up from the cold stone and
hinges at you with icy taloned claw-like hands, You
wil! have to fight for your life! This is not an illusion!

SPECTRE SKILL 7 STAMINA 7

Each time the Spectre hits you, you must deduct 1
SKILL point; this loss is permanent until you find
some magical way of remedying the loss. If you win,
turn to 189.

113-115

113
You feel that you could perhaps knock down the
door, but this would require some hefty kicking and
you might lose some of your STAMINA. You could
also alert guards or monsters around the place. Do
you want to try battering down the door (turn to
294), or do you want to return to the main passage
and open the door at the end of it (turn to 124)?

114
You stand before a door marked with a black and
amber cross. You decide to open it, to see what lies
on the other side. Turn to 393.

115

The illusion just disappears at the very moment

when you ‘kill’ it, and you realize what it was. But it
was no mere illusion, forit had enough reality about
it to harm you! The magic in this place is growing
more dangerous ... You step through the gap at
the end of the passage. Turn to 203.

116-117

116

You run a good distance westwards to get away
from the skeletal figure, but it does not seem to be
pursuing you. You breathe a sigh of relief. Turn to

117
Breathing heavily, you push away the body of the
evil cleric with your foot; as you do so, a pouch he
kad at his belt spills out 5 Gold Pieces (add these to
sour Treasure on your Adventure Sheet). As you look
around, it dawns upon you how evil this place is;
¥ou sense an emanation of evil from the altar, and
there are dread wall-paintings showing scenes of
anspeakable horror. One in particular captures
Tour attention: a black skull with livid red eyes,
floating in the air above a rocky crevasse, gloating
over the terrified ghostly forms of spirits of the
dead. But there’s no shelter to be found outside, so
vou will have to sleep here. You look around and
discover a trapdoor beneath a carpet in front of the
altar; you pull the Dark Priest’s body over it to stop
anything getting in, then settle down to sleep. Now
vou must Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to
237. If you are Unlucky, turn to 279.

118

118
You set off north together and soon reach the giant’
cave, which is set into a hillside sloping down to
shoreline. You enter and look around. There’s so
fine fish stew simmering, and he offers you
HUGE bow! of it! You eat with relish. The gia
looks thoughtful and says, ‘This is becoming
increasingly evil place. I’m not afraid, for I can lool
after myself, but you. . . you must be on some kind
of quest here.’ You nod, but say nothing, deter
mined to give nothing away. ‘I don’t know if thi
will help you, but it might mean something,’
says, and he retrieves an old scroll which he had
carefully hidden under a large pile of shells and
conches. You read it:

Singing in the wind is the harbinger of death,
and the Stealer of Souls shall tear terrors from
the minds of the damned to make his home.

It seems to make little sense to you, nor can you

make out all of the date inscribed in one comer. The

Se are smudged, and only three are legible:

. 5... 0inthat order. But you thank the giant
he tells you you can keep the scroll (add the Mes
sage Scroll to the list of Equipment Carried on your

Adventure Sheet and make a note of the date numbers

— 350 — too). Soon it begins to rain heavily and you
stay in the giant's cave for the night.

The next morning is sunny and clear; the giant
wishes you well and gives you some salted fish,
enough for three meals (add 3 to your Provisions).

119-120

You set off to the west, to seek the trail leading
mand; turn to 257.

119
“You wretched coward, how do you expect to gain
gory and respect?’, hisses the lizard contemptu-
eusly. It pronounces a curse upon you and then
Gsappears. You must lose 1 Luck point, and flee
south in fear! Turn to 54.

120

A dirty, cluttered room, crudely furnished and with
doors leading in several directions, greets your
eyes, but you have no time to take in all the details!
There are two Goblins here, and they leap up to
attack you. In the doorway, you can fight them one
ata time.

SKILL STAMINA
First GOBLIN 5 5
Second GOBLIN 5 6

BE you win, turn to 300.

121-122

121
Beyond the door, a torch-lit corridor extends south
wards. You move softly along it, until you come toa

door at the end. Even from a few yards away, you:

can hear guttural talk and raucous laughter from
within, but you don’t recognize the language. Will
you:

Head back north? Turn to 376
Open the door, sword in hand,

to fight? Turn to 25
Open the door, without your

sword readied, to try and

talk with whatever is inside? Turn to 20g

122
You take the dark tunnel to the west, using your
light source to illuminate your way. You step into a
high cavern with a vaulted roof; from a ceiling
encrusted with stalactites water drips, nourishing
thick growths of grey and white fungi which cluster

on the floor. You can just make out a passage exiting

to the west of where you stand. Do you want to
continue on westwards (turn to 51) or try eating one
or two of the fungi (turn to 345)?

123-124

123
The small room beyond is plainly furnished with
chairs and a smail table on which you see a decanter
of white wine, some cheeses, and a fruit pie. You
suddenly feel hungry! If you wish, you may eat a
meal from what is on the table (regaining 2
STAMINA points), and you can take the cheese for
another meal later (add 1 to your Provisions on your
Adventure Sheet). There is a small door in the south
wall of this room, and you decide to open this after
checking for noise and hearing nothing. Turn to 50.

ml.

+N

FF om

124
You open the door and walk into a large chamber
constructed of bare stone with high walls, lit by
torches which burn and spit, giving off blue light
and faintly greenish smoke. This smoke is un-
pleasant, irritating your throat and nostrils. There is
a half-open door in the east wall, from behind which
a red glow spills into this room. There is another
door in the west wall, and this is made of very stout
black wood with massively thick iron banding and
fittings. In the north-east corner of the room is a
fountain with a thin jet of liquid spraying several
feet into the air. Will you:

126-127

125

Drink some water from

the fountain? Turn to
Toss a Gold Piece into the fountain

and make a wish? Turn to.
Open the west door? Turn to 3
Cross to the east door and look x

round it? Turn to #&

126
Your magical Ring of Fire Resistance minimizes the
damage you take; lose only 1 STAMINA point. But
mow you are close to the balcony, and you will be
able to fight the wizard on equal terms as you move
m' Turn to 46.

125

Passing along the rainbow passage, you feel am
unfamiliar sense of goodness. Another illusion,
perhaps? The passage leads into a high-ceilinged
chamber filled with rainbow-coloured lights. In-
side, there are three semi-transparent human
figures, and also three passages which exit on the
far side of the chamber: one yellow-green, one
azure, and one a deep ochre colour. One of the
shimmering figures drifts soundlessly towards you.
‘Brave friend, not everything here has been cor-
rupted by the wicked one. He has not overcome all
of us. Let me give you a blessing to aid you,’ and he
stretches out his hands to touch your head. Wilt
you:

127
You are in combat with a Giant Stormbird; you must
&ht it alone, since the sailors are too far away and
can’t get to aid you through the rain and gale and
lashing waves which spill on to the deck.

GIANT STORMBIRD sxitLt8 STAMINA 12

& vou are slain by the Stormbird’s slashing talons
and cruel beak, your first adventure has ended here!
Let the figure touch you? Turn to 398 @ ~Bvou win, tum to 167.
Run to the yellow-green passage? Tur to 307
Run to the azure passage? Turn to 272

Run to the ochre passage? Turn to 77
Ct Tee -
ae! 7. | ih mS
a “

ns .
Te “a

*~ r) eS:

. oy | “* f

~*. fi
~.

128-129

128

The trail grows more overgrown as it descends into
thick, verdant vegetation: masses of bushes, ferns,
wines and trailing roots ... gaudy insects buzz
bzily around in the air. It is very warm and humid,
and you use up a lot of energy hacking your way
through the undergrowth in overgrown parts of the
trail. Deduct 2 points from your STAMINA.

Suddenly two men just seem to melt out of the
bushes beside the trail and stand before you! They
are dark-skinned and wear loincloths, and they
carry spears. These they point towards you and
gesture wildly — you have no idea what it is they’re
trving to tell you, but their spears are sharp! Will
rou:

Attack them? Turn to 310
Try to greet them in some way? Turn to 168
Offer them a Gold Piece? Turn to 224

129
You press on south, ignoring a turning to the east
which only leads to the Goblins’ room. Turn to 268.

130-131

130

The Troll has 2 Gold Pieces in a pouch, and under
the pillow of his bed you find another 2 Gold Pieces
(add these to your Treasure on your Adventure
Sheet), On the table, among a jumble of cutlery and
earthenware plates, jugs and bottles of brown liquid
(which you wisely ignore), you find a bunch of keys.
If you wish to take these, add them to the list of
Equipment Carried on your Adventure Sheet.

By the time you have finished your search, acrid
smoke is beginning to drift under the door in the
west wall and a small cloud is beginning to coalesce.
Escape to the west is obviously impossible, and you
have to get out before you are suffocated by the
thick smoke, so you must try the eastern door; tum
to 260,

131
Peering through the grille, you can just make out
two slumped human bodies lying on a pile of filthy
straw inside a dank, unlit cell. Will you try to open
the door and help these people (turn to 18) or tum
back and go south (turn to 227)?

132-134

132
You search through a litter of papers and bric-a-brac
which fills the guard’s room. There seems to be
nothing valuable, but you do find a sheet of vellum
covered with ornate, bold handwriting. It reads:

I need to know by the end of today how the
meddling wizard learnt to use magic I did not
teach him, here in the Crypts. If he will not talk
before the end of day, have the torturer put
him to death by fire. Mehrabian will assist, and
of course those dark, pointy-eared little fellows
will want to watch. I have better things to do
with my time.

It is signed, simply, ‘M’.

Puzzling over this, you leave through the west door
of the dining room. Turn to 17.

133
The ‘Restore Skill’ spell allows you to recover lost
SKILL points. You may cast this spell at any time
except during combats, and you will be able to
recover up to 3 lost SKILL points. Return to 188.

134
Your goodly thought is reflected back upon you; as
vou utter words of blessing, the air seems almost to
thaw slightly, and you hear what sounds like a
collective sigh from the souls of the dead which
hover here. Regain 1 SKILL point and 1 LUCK point.
Now, you can either take the airy, light exit-passage

135-137

(turn to 319) or the dark-brown, earthy way out
(turn to 247).

135
You head for the cottage, approach the open door-
way and peer in. The windows are shuttered and
little light penetrates inside — but in the room you
can see someone tied to a chair; he ties to raise a
hand but cannot sustain the effort, and groans
heavily. He is clearly weak and in pain. Will you:

Look more closely round the

room? Turn to 215
Go in and untie the man? Turn to 183
Ignore him and head back

south? Turn to 250

136
You head north along the passage until you come to
an eastward passage. Opposite this is a faintly
carved wall-carving of some kind. Will you:

Look closely at the wall-carving? Turn to 216
Follow the passage north? Turn to 184
Take the passage east? Turn to 72
Retrace your steps back south? Turn to 129

137
You collect 6 Gold Pieces from the Orcs (add this to
your Treasure on your Adventure Sheet); if you
gambled with them and lost, you can take back the
money you lost (and the bone dice as well if you lost
those too!). The dice the Orcs had are shoddy, and

138

their ale and rat-pasties are revolting. You can now
either go back to the north (turn to 346) or open the
east door (turn to 4)

138

You apply the oil to the lock and hinges, so long
rusted. Cross the oil off the list of Equipment
Carried on your Adventure Sheet. By a little tinkering
with the lock you get something to click, and you
can now open the door and look inside. The room is
very small and dark, and is lined with shelves,
almost all of which are empty. However, in a small
wooden box on one shelf, you find three blocks of
incense which smell sweet and fragrant even
though they must have been here for years. You
take these, so add them to the list of Equipment
Carried on your Adventure Sheet. You go back to the
Inain passageway, and now you can try opening the
western door (turn to 358) or you can press on
southwards (tum to 283).

139-140

139
It occurs to you that the man’s chain-mai] armour
was surely superior to your own leather armour,
sadly, however, your final blow ripped away one
side of it so that it is now useless. Cursing your
misfortune, you leave the room and open the
southern door in the next room; turn to 245.

140
You look for the man’s clothes and find a set of
ornately decorated wizard’s robes on a peg in this
room. You hand them to the old man, who grate-
fully exchanges them for the rags he was kept in.

“Thank you,’ says the wizard. ‘My name is Alsan-
der.’ As you had hoped, the wizard you were sent to
rescue! Excitedly, you tell him who sent you, and
your purpose here. Alsander listens intently, but
then shakes his head sadly. ‘Ah, cunning Mor-
draneth. Of course; he fooled Vanestin into a wild
goose chase in Allansia. Now Vanestin and the
other wizards won’t be able to resist him when he
lands in Pollua.’ You look at Alsander, puzzled;

141

what can he mean? The wizard soon enlightens
you.

*Mordraneth isn’t in Allansia at all. He’s here. He is
scheming a monstrous evil, deep within the foun-
dation of the Iron Crypts, in his Empire of Illusions,
as he calls it. There he is harnessing a dreadful
power, one to drive men to madness and death, in
order to unleash it on Pollua to bring him stil
greater power. If he canachieve his goal, none could
challenge him.’

This is dire news indeed . . . but an idea is begin-
ning to form at the back of your mind. When first
you were asked to rescue Alsander, you regretted
losing the opportunity for glory which ridding
the world of Mordraneth would bring. You ask
Alsander to continue. Turn to 325.

141

You wedge the crowbar between the walls and run.
The stout metal holds the walls apart for only a few
seconds before it buckles and snaps, but it’s just
long enough. You make it to the dark tunnel as the
walls clash together a few feet behind you, Turn to

296.

142~143

142

You leap and bound up the stairs at twice normal
speed, totally confounding the wizard who was
trying to prepare another spell. Now he reaches for
his sword; while he does, you can strike at him,
causing him the loss of 2 sTaMINA points. Turn to
46 to continue the fight, and don’t forget to subtract
2 points from Mordraneth’s stTAMINA score given
there!

143
One of the sailors gives you a small jar of ointment
(add this to the list of Equipment Carried on your
Adventure Sheet). He explains that on the Isle of
Despair there may be insects which bite and spread
disease, and this will help repel them. He com-
mends you on your bravery and says he hopes his

144-146

gift will help you. You thank him, and collect your
gear for the adventure to come. Turn to 249.

144

The shaman looks disappointed, and soon after you
are taken to a small, dirty hut where you will sleep.
However, you are disturbed by a lizard which scut-
Yes about on the earth floor all night and keeps
waking you up; moreover, you can’t find it to kill it!
Lack of sleep means that you must lose 2 STAMINA
points. Turn to 101.

145
You can just make out the shape of a slim body

which is limed over and encrusted with stalagmites.
It will take you a couple of hours to chip away the
chalky deposit and find out what lies beneath. If you
wish to do this, tum to 266. If you decide not to
bother, but to press onwards, turn to 156.

146

You search desperately for a way out and at last,
Dehind the wall-hanging, you find a concealed door!
You tug it open, and gulp down the cleaner air
outside. As you are about to step through, you hear
a small voice calling in the air to your left, ‘Hey!
Don’t leave me here! I can be of help." The smoke
swirls around your feet. . . will you go on through
the door and up the stairs beyond, shutting the door
behind you (turn to 58), or will you check carefully
m that part of the room where you heard the voice
turn to 334)?

147-149

Suddenly a brief vision passes before your eyes! In
m, you see a door before you, marked with a black
and amber cross, and beyond the door is an Orc
holding a brass flask. You move forward and slay
him — but then into the room steps a fearsome
black-robed figure who unleashes a spell at you!
Then the vision is gone. Was it a premonition? Or
post an illusion? You make a note to be well prepared
for combat should you come across such a door! You
leave the Orcs’ bedroom, enter the guardroom, and
open the south door. Turn to 333.

148
You wade in, fighting on the side of one Orc against
the other, whois soon killed. You take no damage in
the battle. ‘Fanks,’ says the Orc you helped. ‘I allus
‘ated ‘im — nah I can git me money back worrie stole
offa me.’ The Orc bends down to take a leather
pouch from the body, Will you:

Leave this room and head west

along the passage? Turn to 97
Attack the single Orc remaining? Turn to 380
Talk to the Orc? Turn to 33

149

The passageway is very dark, and you must use
your light source to see by. Then, suddenly, the
Eeht source winks out and you can do nothing to
restore it! You are enveloped in darkness, and a
numbing chill creeps over you. You hear whispers

150

around you, and scuttlings and squeaks; then you:
hear a ghastly sound: the scraping of iron-ha
claws on stone - or is it the sound of a meat cleave
being sharpened? It is getting closer, and a guttural,
chuckling accompanies it. You can feel the feat
creeping into your bones, and you shiver. Darknes®
deeper than any night is sinking into your ver
marrow. Will you:

Cast a ‘Dispel Illusion’ spell,

if you can? Turn to 39%
Cast a ‘Dispel Fear’ spell,

if you can? Turn to 208
Flee into the darkness, although

you do not know where you

are going? Turn to 382

150
The violet passage soon opens into a large, cratered
cavern, littered with rocks and cobwebs; you think
you see a single exit in the distance, but it is
obscured by a huge rock, several yards across, Then
the rock moves — it is no rock at all! Yellow-black,
hairy legs seem to spring out in all directions, anda
bony black head rears up, showing razor-sharp
mandibles, The wings on this mammoth Spider's
back buzz and flutter, but it moves towards you or
its great, springing legs. You sense that this is an
illusion, but one of exceptional strength. Waves of
fear radiate from the thing; you must deduct 1 point
from your SKILL femporarily (during this combat}
and lose 2 points of STAMINA due to this fear. If you

151-153

am, you have time to cast a ‘Dispel Fear’ spell,
hich negates these effects. As the Spider closes in,
| you use a ‘Dispel Illusion’ spell (turn to 371) or
eit the monster with your sword (turn to 175)?

151
You drag the entangling strands away from your
throat and struggle on, but you have to lose 3
STAMINA points because of the effects of strangula-
Bon. Now, at last, you’re on the balcony and you
can fight the wizard with your sword. Turn to 46.

152
The passageway at the end of the sewer forks. You
may follow either the yellow-green one (turn to 307)
or one which is filled with ratnbow-coloured ight

{turn to 125).

Inside the chest you find a small casket of fragrant
“sandalwood, inlaid with fine mother-of-pearl. This
contains two items, wrapped in silk. One is a bronze
ung; you do not know what this does. The other is a
tiny platinum amulet with ornate marks etched very
finely on it, on a silver filigree chain. You know
intuitively that this has some magical power, but

1547155 156-158

you can't tell what this might be. You can carry, of
wear, either or both of these items; if you do, adi
the Bronze Ring and/or the Platinum Amulet to the
list of Equipment Carried on your Adventure Sheet
Leaving this room, you go back to the Passage, 2
open the door at the south end of it. Turn to 124.

154
Before long, the passageway divides; to the north *
@ low tunnel which clearly opens into a dayit
chamber, from which a high-pitched squeaking
sound, interspersed with a deeper noise almost like
4 growl, resounds down the tunnel. If you want te
investigate the chamber at the end of that tunne
turn to 385. Or you can continue westwards; turn te

274.

156
You trudge south along the passageway which
seems to wind on interminably. Finally, you come
% a T-junction, and from here you can head either
east (turn to 285) or west (turn to 356).

155
The daylight grows clearer as you make your way
up the passageway towards the tunnel. Now you
hear the noise more clearly, it sounds as if some
thing or someone is being ripped limb from limb
some snarling monster, Undeterred, you decide te
move in and find out just what's in there! Turn &

385.

157

Using your lantern, you descend the steeply cut
stone steps to the winding limestone passages be-
sow. These twist and turn, and you seem to spend
hours travelling with only faint sounds of dripping
water for company. You must stop to eat a meal
during your travels or deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA. Next, you must Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 388. If you are Unlucky, turn to 85,

158
You must now Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn
%© 239. If you are Unlucky, turn to 338.

159-161

159
All you find for your trouble is a large centipede that
scuttles out from under a rock and nips you with
poisonous bite. You crush it angrily under y
heel, but you suffer the loss of 2 STAMINA points.
Turn to 337.

160

The light in the passageway seems to grow a litte
brighter as you make your way along, and you
observe that ahead it turns north. Peering round t
bend, you see that the passage opens into a
chamber. Inside the chamber is a table bearing
gold which gleams in the light of an oil lamp fixed
to the wall above, and there is a door in the west wall
of the chamber. However, you can also hear some-
one — or something - lumbering about in there,
out of sight. If you want to enter the chamber, tum
to 225. If you would rather turn back down the
passage and then set off towards the west, turn
to 255.

161

Unfortunately, although the Orcs seem friendly at
first, one of them is a bit less drunk than the others
and it eyes you over as you sit sipping the foul ale
they have given you. ‘T ain’t seen ‘im befur,’ it
growls as it gobbles down a rat-pasty. ‘I don’t fink
‘e's wiv our lot.’ The other Orcs suddenly look
nasty, and reach for their weapons. You must fight
them, so turn to 185.

162-163

162

You swing the grappling iron up to the ledge and
shin up the rope. The wind clutches at your clothes
* you crouch, exposed to the elements outside.
You try not to look at what the Razorbeak Bird was
eating, and you check through the nest. You finda
headband of black cotton, with a motif executed in
saver thread on it; this depicts a spider with a staff
Superimposed diagonally across it. You may take
this and wear it if you wish; if you do, add the Spider
Headband to the list of Equipment Carried on your
Adventure Sheet. You clamber back down and set off
southwards; turn to 42.

163

While the warrior's sword is inferior to your own,
his chain-mail armour is definitely superior. (Add
this to the list of Equipment Carried on your Adven-
ture Sheet.) When you wear it, it will increase your
SKILL score permanently by 1 point; this does allow
you to exceed your Initial SKILL score, unless that
was Originally 11 or 12.

Pleased with your superior armour, and flushed
with the success of the combat, you leave this room
and open the south door in the adjoining room; turn

) 245.

164-165

164

As you attempt to open the chest, a scything blade
swings up from a crack in the stone floor and cuts
deeply into your flesh. So severe is the wound that
you must lose 1 point from your sKILL and 6 points
from your STAMINA. If the injury is not enough to
kill you, you give a scream of agony and pass out
from pain and shock. When you come round, you
can try again to open the chest (turn to 246) or go
back to the main passage and open the door at the
southern end of it (turn to 124).

165

You take just a sip of the liquid — and spit out rancid
vinegar. A loud laugh echoes down the corridor.
‘Oh, you poor fool! Don’t you recognize an Arch-
mage when you meet one? I’m going to have fun
watching your slow death. I couldn’t let you die
that easily!’ and the voice subsides into mocking
laughter. You can see no-one but you know this is
Mordraneth. You are filled with hatred for your
tormentor, and you get up and struggle onwards;
turn to 387.

166-168

166
The Fire Globe surrounds you in burning flame and
suffocating smoke! Suffer the loss of 6 STAMINA
points. If you are still alive, you race onwards, and
make it to the balcony where Mordraneth stands.
Turn to 110.

167
Did you turn your back and try to flee before
fighting the Stormbird? If you did, turn to 347. Ifyou
made no attempt to run away, turn fo 223.

168
You advance with palms outstretched. The men
realize you aren't hostile, so they lower their spears
—a little! They guide you along the path and after an
hour or so they usher you into their village. Turn to
208.

169-170

169
You are fighting a Skeletal Warrior, who swings at
wou with great strength; his massive two-handed
sword glints as it sweeps through the air in an arc
towards you. May the gods grant you good luck in
suis dangerous combat!

SKELETAL WARRIOR SKILL 10 STAMINA 10

E vou win, turn to 236.

170

As the beetle-thing lunges at you, your medallion
shines with pure white light, a beam of which hits
se illusion, dispersing it into nothingness. You see
=e gap in the wall at the end of the passage, and
zecide to make for it. You are unnerved, and the
shock of seeing the gruesomely convincing illusion
Sas cost you 1 point of STAMINA, but you'll be less
snockable in future. . . turn to 203.

171-174

471
You cannot open this door by any means available
to you. Frustrated, you set off in an easterly direc-
tion. Turn to 114.

172
You try to open the eastern door, but itis locked. Do
you have an Ebony Key? If you do, turn to 201. If
you don’t, turn to 113.

173
The snakes lunge forward to attack, and you feel a
pair of fangs sink through your leather leggings into
your flesh, then another bite . . . you hack at the
rephles with your sword, but it is useless, there are
so many of them. You collapse from the venom, and
death is near. You have failed in your quest.

174
Are you wearing a bronze ring? If you are, turn to

297. If you are not, turn to 30.

175-178

175
Are you wearing a headband? If you are, turn to 198.
i vou aren’t, turn to 394.

176
The ‘Luck’ spell allows you to recover lost LucK
puints. You can cast this spell at any time except
during a combat, and you will be able to recover up
to 3 lost LUCK points. Return to 188.

177
As you think about making your wish, you notice
that bubbles are forming on the surface of the Gold
Piece. The liquid isn’t water, it is acid! You move
away from the fountain, and now you can either
open the west door (turn to 373) or look round the
east door (tum to 28).

178
As you prise the bnck away, you reveal a small
cavity behind it within which is a small, black,
wooden box with clasps of brass. Will you:

179-180

Open the box?

Go back to the southern passage
and open the door at the end
of it? Turn to 227

Go back to the southern passage
and look for the secret door
the man mentioned?

Turn to 374

Turn to 98

179
You leap aside just as a spear hurtles past you,
triggered by a trap linked to the door. The spear
impales itself m the door opposite you; moments
later, you hear sounds to the north, so you decide to
set off southwards! Turn to 283.

180

‘Vat’s not very friendly,’ growls a half-drunk Orc.
His companions agree, but they are enjoying their
beer and seem unsure whether to be aggressive or to
get on with their drinking. Roll one die; on a roll of
1—3, the Orcs do get nasty and you wil] have to fight
them, so turn to 185. Ona roll of 4—6, the Orcs carry
on drinking and accept your company after all; tum
to 254.

181-182

181

Having reached the crossroads on the trail, you set
otf west along the unmarked path. You are heading
mito undulating low foothills, and your legs grow
tired as you march. There are craggy peaks to the
north, and the trail turns north-west towards them.
Kis late afternoon when you begin to grow hungry,
and you must stop and eat a meal. The rays of the
setting sun bathe the countryside in a warm glow
and reflect back from some kind of small building,
made of grey rock, to the west. You could reach it in
an hour. You can either make for the building (turn
to 379) or continue on the trail (turn to 53).

182

You soon find the giant’s cave which is set into a
nillside. A quick but careful check reveals that no
other creature is here, but you can smell fish stew!
You enter. There is enough fish stew for two meals
‘you can eat one or both of them here, but you
<annot carry stew with you). After you have eaten,
rested and recovered STAMINA points, do you want
to return westwards to the trail (turn to 257) or
search the cave (turn to 301)?

183-185

Ns i
\ Ns i

183
You stride in — triggering a tripwire trap: a weight
‘Strung from the ceiling falls and hits you hard across
the shoulders; deduct 4STAMINA points. Tried. . .
warm. . .” gasps the man, and slumps back in the
hair. Groaning from the pain of bruised muscles,
¥ou untie him; turn to 71.

bi “i | With HAIN tay
: ah Ps: PI -
| A : UDA ———

184
The passageway ends at a door facing you. Even
from outside, you can detect a rather unpleasant,
fetid smell. You hear a faint scratching and
scrabbling coming from behind the door. You can
either open the door and see what lies beyond it
fturn to 6) or retrace your steps back south (turn

& 303).

185

in this room, you must fight the Orcs two at a time
antil you have killed two and only one remains for
¥ou to finish off. Roll two dice for yourself and for
beth your opponents; add relevant SKILL scores; the
combatant with the highest Attack Strength is the
one who will land an effective blow during that
Attack Round. Fortunately, the Orcs are somewhat
drunk, so their SKILL scores are lower than usual.

SKILL STAMINA
rst ORC 4 5
Second ORC 4 4
Thid ORC 4 5

E you win, turn to 73.

186~188 189-190

aead all the spell descriptions. After being told about
= spell, you will be sent back to this paragraph.
When you have decided which three spells to learn,
make a note of them, and the effects they have and
‘when they can be used. Unless otherwise stated,
each spell may be used only once. Then, turn to 64.

The spells you may choose from are:

‘Dispel Fear’ Turn to 2

; to ‘Dispel Illusion’ Turn to 295

The Birdman flies away before you can reach him. ‘Fire Globe’ Turn to 16
Outside, however, you see him glide down and Healing’ Turn to 336 ~
make cawing calls and whoops; and other Birdmes Luck’ ® ell Turn to 96 :
are gathering, joining him ... you'd better not aera Turn to 103 ;

hang around! Turn to 292. ‘Speed’ Turn to 213

187 189

Such a hard fight, and an adversary who used magi¢
against you! Could it be . . . ? Surely not. Although”
you were told that only Mordraneth’s own spell
would work in the Iron Crypts, this must have been _
a minion instructed by Mordraneth. And your jobis

Fearing further horrors like the Spectre, you look
around in desperation. At the end of the huge hall of
cold stone tombs you can make out three passage-
ways and you must follow one. Will you take:

to find Alsander in any event. . . Will you: The ei SL passage? Turn to 395

The rainbow-coloured passage? Tum to 125

Search the bodies? Turn to 353 The yellow-green passage? Turn to 307

Try the east door in the Orec’s

room? Turn to 123 190

Look through the south door the Mordraneth laughs as the Fire Globe smashes into

Dark Priest entered by? Turn to Sz you, causing you the loss of 6 STAMINA points. If

you are still alive, you keep on up the stairs to

188 challenge his foul sorcery with your trusty sword,

You may choose three spells only from the list below. and you reach the balcony on which he stands! Turn
To help you make a wise choice, you may wish to ™ © 46.

aa

191—192

191
Ahead, you catch a glimpse of a wooden cottage
nestling among some trees ~ but you are also sure
you can hear the sound of clashing metal! As you
stand and watch, two Hobgoblins appear from be-
hind the cottage. They’re fighting each other! Will
you:

Leave them to it and retrace

your steps back south? Turn to 250
Move in and attack them? Turn to 87
Stay where you are and try to

keep out of sight? Turn to 341

192
in your sleep you have a peculiar dream, which you
recall vividly when you wake up. In the dream you
are standing before a stone statue of a man; as
you look at it, wisps of smoke pour from its mouth
and form a skeletal shape which strikes at you with
vellowed claws. But a pure white light shines from
the medallion around your neck, and you realize the
thing is merely an illusion. One blow from your
sword destroys itand it is but a harmless small cloud
of smoke. You know this is a good omen; regain 1

193-195

LUCK point. When you set off again the next mom
ing, you can either head east to the trail and then set
off north-west again (turn to 339) or open the trap-
door and see what is below (turn to 157).

193
You retrace your steps towards the east, ignoring
the way back—there’s no escape in that direction, so
you press on further east. Turn to 285.

194
As you make your way back down the corridor,
thick black smoke swirls towards you, and you
smell the choking, reeking fumes. You rush back
into the Troll’s room and slam the door shut to keep
the smoke out. Now, you can either search the room
(turn to 130) or open the eastern door (turn to 260).

195
A spear hurtles out from the trap within, and you
suffer a grazing cut. Deduct 2 STAMINA points. The
noise of the spring firing the spear, and the sound it
makes as it strikes the door opposite, are loud, and
you think you can hear noises coming from the
north, so you head off south smartly! Turn to 283.

196-197

196

“Oh, right, Urzak sent you. Well, your instructions
are simple. The prisoner is being troublesome and
the Master wants the information out of him — how
he’s learnt to use magic down here without being
taught by the Master himself. Get him to talk today
and, if he won’t, kill him off, very nastily indeed if at
all possible. You know the way.’ You realize he has
taken you fora torturer come to deal witha prisoner!
Will you:

Attack the young man? Turn to 3
Open the west door of the dining

room and leave? Turn to 17
Say you don’t know the way, and

ask for directions? Turn to 320

197

You follow the red passage, and the air soon begins
to grow hot. You are sweating, and evenif you try to
turn back, you remain in this wretched place; there
seems to be no way of escape. You enter a long red
chamber, and in the distance you see an orange
passage. Itis becoming very hot indeed, and you are
beginning to feel faint. Do you have a Bronze Ring?
if you do, turn to 263. If you don’t, turn to 32.

198-200

198
As the Spider approaches you, a Staff of Light
appears in the air before it, connected by a thin
luminous thread to your headband. The Spider
shrinks back; the Staff whirls into a vortex of light
and surrounds the Spider, dissolving it into a pall of
reeking black smoke. Turn to 269.

199

You successfully cast your ‘Speed’ spell; but just as
you finish doing this, Mordraneth’s speil hits you; a
ball of lightning crackles and spins through the air
and strikes you. Deduct 4 STAMINA points. But at
least you’re running very fast now and Mordraneth
won't be able to hit you so easily when you get intoa
swordfight! Will you take the left-hand set of steps
up to the balcony (turn to 384) or the right-hand set
{turn to 142)?

200

Your nerves are steadied after you have cast the
‘Dispel Fear’ spell, and the whisperings and faint
cries do not affect you. You step forward, taking
care to test your steps, and soon you see faint
patches of coloured light which are passageway
entrances. You can follow either the brown passage
(turn to 362) or the grey passage (turn to 112).

201-202

201
The Ebony Key slips silently into the keyhole, and
the door opens slightly. Beyond, there is nothing
but pitch-darkness, and you must have a light
source to see by. You can either enter the room (turn
#0 392) or return to the main passage and open the
door at the end of it (turn to 124).

202
The southernmost door in this room flies open, and
a cowled figure stands framed in the doorway. A
livid blue scar bisects the left side of his expression-
kess face, and he waves his thin, almost skeletal,
long-nailed fingers as he chants a spell.

You rush him with your sword. Roll two dice and
add 1 to the number rolled; if the total is less than or
equal to your current SKILL score, turn to 11. If the
dice-roll total is greater than your current SKILL
score, turn to 66.

203-204

203
As you step through, the ‘wall’ behind you re
forms! You do not like the idea of trying to return
that way; looking around you, you see you are ina
passageway along which you can travel west (tum
to 314) or east and then north (turn to 7).

204

You open the flask — which is tightly sealed — and a
sweet, wholesome herbal aroma fills the air. This is
a concentrated Potion of Healing and the flask cor
tains two doses, each of which will restore 4 lost
STAMINA points when drunk. You may drink from
this flask at any time, except during combats. Add
this to the list of Equipment Carried on your Adven-
ture Sheet, but don’t forget to make a note of the fact
when you drink a dose from it!

Now, you must roll one die. If the roll is 1-2, turn to
100. If the result is 3-6, turn to 156.

205-207

205
Beyond the door, a passageway stretches out before
you, ending at a T-junction. From here you can go
either south (turn to 268) or north (turn to 136).

206

You reach the rock face and begin to climb up. It’s a
tricky, slippery surface, and you curse at the mosses
which make it so hard to get good hand- and foot-
holds. Roll two dice and check the total against your
SKILL. If the total of the two dice is less than or equal
to your SKILL, you make it to the nest; turn to 368. If
the dice-roll is greater than your SKILL, you fail in
your attempt to climb and fall back. Deduct 2
STAMINA points caused by the fall. If you fall, you
can attempt to climb again but each time you try you
have to roll two dice and compare the total rolled
against your SKILL, as before. If you want to
abandon your mountaineering attempt and return
south, turn to 119.

207
You are fighting a Skull Crab, and you find it isn’t
easy trying to swing a sword while standing upright
m a rowing-boat! You must subtract 2 temporarily
from your SKILL score. (You do not have to change
the SKILL score on your Adventure Sheet; this instruc-
tion applies only to this combat.)

SKULL CRAB

If you manage to kill the Skull Crab, you pick up the
oars again and row safely to shore. Turn to 70.

SKILL 6 STAMINA 6

—_- oO

208-209

208

There are some thirty or so warriors in the village,
with womenfolk and shy children who point and
Stare at you. You begin to feel uncomfortable — but
then a richly dressed Native, bearing a ceremonial
staff decorated with silver filigree and magnificent
plumes, appears from the grandest of the mud-and-
wattle huts and approaches you. Haltingly, he
speaks in a language you can understand. ‘I am
Alkandi, High Shaman of the Kiaraboos, and we see
you come in peace. You are not one of the Evil Ones.
We welcome you with hospitality.’ He takes you
into his hut, and soon a fine meal is laid before you
{restoring 3 points of lost STAMINA).

After you have eaten, the shaman looks at you a
httle craftily. ‘Perhaps some trade between us
would bond our friendship,’ he says. If you have
any Treasure and are willing to trade at least a little,
turn to 329. If you have no Treasure or are unwilling
even to consider trade, turn to 25B.

209
You enter a room to find three Orcs sitting round a
table, drinking and gambling. There is a door in the
east wall of this room. As you enter, one Orc pro-
fects a well-aimed gob into a spittoon not far from

210-212

your feet, looks up, and says blearily to you,
‘Wozzis? Wanna drink?’ Obviously they are not
openly hostile, but they do have swords at their
sides and there are three of them. You can either
attack them (turn to 185) or sit down at their table for
a drink (turn to 359).

210
You try kicking the door down, but it is stuck fast.
You also make a lot of noise doing this, and you hear
footfalls to the north, coming fast towards you. . .
so you set off south. Turn to 283.

211

Inside the foul and filthy-smelling cell, you find that
one of the prisoners is already dead. The other, a
human, groans, barely conscious; he is clearly very
sick. You can try offering him food and water to help
revive his strength (turn to 242), or you can leave
him in this wretched place and head back into the
main passage and go to the south (turn to 227).

212
He looks at you meaningfully, twirling his dagger
handle in the palm of his hand. Leaving without
saying something is impossible, because the young
man is looking very distrustful and ready to attack,
and that dagger could fly at your back. Will you:

Attack him?

Say the people upstairs sent
you? Turn to 196

Say you're a tradesman? Turn to 60

Turn to 3

213-215

213

The ‘Speed’ spel! allows you to run very fast, and
also to dodge and weave, avoiding the blows of
opponents in swordfights. If you are in a combat,
you may cast this spell only at the start of it, not once
itis in progress. The spell will last only long enough
to affect one combat. However, during this combat
you may deduct 2 from your opponent’s SKILL
score, because you are so hard to hit! Return to 188.

214

As soon as you attack the Dragon, it disappears!
Loud laughter resounds through the huge cavern.
‘Well, you’re brave, I'll give you that—- although you
are a fool. J think il’s nearly time we met in person,
don’t you? Enough of these iJlusions and tricks; your
soul will give me excellent material to work with.
Come along, my puny young fool, along the
passage now!’

Mordraneth! Your heart leaps to your throat as you
realize the final great combat cannot be far away — or
is this yet another lie, another illusion? You can but
press on —along the violet passageway at the end of
the cavern. Turn to 150.

215
You look carefully around and make out a tripwire,
a couple of inches above the floor, in the doorway.
Gingerly, you step over it, and as you look up you
see the heavy weight that would have fallen on you
had you triggered the trap. Now you can untie the
old man. Turn to 71.

216-217

216

The carved and scratched marks on the smooth wall
depict a horrible scene: a man in black robes stands
over the body of an Elf, and his outstretched hands
seem to be conjuring something from the head and
heart of the body. At first this looks vague, almost a
smoky cloud; but as you look more closely you
begin to see the outline of a venomous spider with
wings taking shape in the cloud. Fully formed, the
spider strikes fear into your heart; somehow you
know that this is a dreadful enemy! Deduct 1 point
from your Luck. Now, will you:

Take the north passage? Turn to 184

Take the east passage? Turn to 72

Take the south passage? Turn to 129
217

You lose money to the Orcs — roll one die: this is the
number of Gold Pieces you lose. If you lose more
than you had to start with, the Orcs take your bone
dice as well! They drink heartily to celebrate their
good fortune; you can either stay with them as they
drink (if you do this, turn to 254) or you can slip out
through the door in the east wall (turn to 4).

218-220 221-222
218

Just a little way past the southern twist in the

passageway, you can see two doors next to each

other, one on each side of the wall, to the east and

the west. Will you:

Mehrabian adds a few comments concerning the
torture techniques he hopes you'll demonstrate;
then he gets up and jingles a bunch of keys he
carries on a leather thong at his belt. ‘Less go
gerrim,’ he says, and moves over to a small barred
door, hidden in shadow in the north-east corner of

Open the east door? Turn to go
Open the west door? Turn to 358 the room. You can either attack the half-Ogre (turn
Ignore the doors and carry on 0 92) or wait for him to come back with his prisoner
south? Turn to 283 turn to 383).
219 221

The snakes varnish! You can cross the chamber
safely and take either the azure passage (turn to 272)
or the ochre passage (turn to 77).

Roll one die. If the roll is 1-3, turn to 107. If the roll is
4-6, turn to 75.

222
Your Fire Globe smashes into Mordraneth, for an
instant engulfing him in red and yellow flame and a
pall of smoke, before he finishes casting his own
spell. (Make a note that, when you fight him hand to
hand, you should deduct 6 STAMINA points from
Mordraneth’s total, because of the damage this spell
has done to him.) You run flat out up the right-hand
set of steps as Mordraneth prepares another spell,
and you can almost get to him, but not quite yet. . .
curn to 351.

220

You sit down at a table with Mehrabian, the half-
Ogre; and he pours out a bowlful of rancid, greasy,
grey-green liquid in which blobs of a yellow fatty
substance float. You wisely decline his offer of a
bowl for yourself. He rubs his hands and greets you.
‘So, you're the expert torturer, eh? Well, the ole

buzzard ‘asn't said nuffin’, but I ‘aven’t ‘urt ‘im too
" much yet; just a few burns an’ such, nuffin’ broken.
‘Course, I obeyed the Master’s command to kee pis
‘ands chained up all the time, to stop ‘im usin’ ‘is
magic and suchlike.’

223-224

223
Captain Garaeth and his men congratulate you on
your bravery. You may take Provisions from the
ship’s galley in order to recover any STAMINA
points you may have lost in your combat with the
Stormbird, ‘Well done,’ Garaeth says, ‘but this en-
counter troubles me. It is very rare to see such a bird
in these latitudes. Perhaps someone already knows
of your coming and has attracted such a creature by
magic.’ This is not a good thought on which to settle
down to sleep; but you get a good night's rest, and
in the early morning you feel refreshed and ready to
set out for the Isle of Despair. Turn to 143.

224
You give the Natives 1 Gold Piece (subtract this from
your Treasure on your Adventure Sheet). They smile,
pat you on the shoulder, and offer you water froma
flask that one of them is carrying. This refreshes
you; you regain 2 STAMINA points. Smiling and
gesturing, they lead you to their village. Turn to 208.

225-226

225
You enter the lamp-lit chamber. Unfortunately, you
bump right into the occupant, who was about to set

off to bully a few Goblins! You gaze in open-

mouthed surprise at each other for a moment, and
then you take a swing with your sword as the
quick-witted, ugly dark brute of an Ogre sets about
wou with his club.

OGRE

If you win, turn to 20.

SKILL 8 STAMINA 10

226
As the Troll falls under the weight of your killing
blow, he snarls wordlessly at you then croaks, “You
can’t get through. . . won’tknow pass . . .’ thenhe
shudders convulsively and lies still.

You look into the room beyond. The Troll’s bed,
with a table and chair, stands by the south wall, and
@ massive door of thick black wood banded with
on can be seen in the middle of the east wall. On
the north wall there is a plain black cotton wall-
hanging which is discoloured by a small growth of
green mould at the top. On a second table in the
middle of the room are some cluttered items which
¥ou’ll have to approach if you want to investigate
them. Will you:

Head back west? Turn to 194
Search the room? Turn to 130
Open the east door? Turn to 260

227-229

227

You soon arrive at a door barring your way at the
end of this southern passage. You hear no sound
beyond, and the door opens easily, revealing light
beyond. With sword drawn, you move cautiously
through; turn to 59.

228

At the end of the passage is a closed door, the wood
of which has many deep marks and cuts from which
frayed wooden splinters hang. From outside, you
can hear angry cries and the sound of clashing metal
on the other side of the door, Do you want to push
the door open and investigate the fight inside (turn
to 262) or turn back and head west along the passage
(turn to 97)?

229
You find yourself in a circular chamber, from which
three passages lead off into the distance. The walls
seem to shimmer and shift, as if they were only
half-real or as if a heat haze were wavering in the air.
The floor feels solid to your feet, but it looks just as
half-real as everything else. You must surely now be

230-231

in the Empire of Illusions, for even the passages
seem to shift location, and you have no idea where
north and south, east and west lie. Each passage is
also of a different colour, unlike this simple, bare,
erey chamber. Will you take:

The red passage? Turn to 197
The yellow passage? Turn to 362
The black passage? Turn to 149

230
The Skeletal Illusion advances to strike you down.
You must fight it!

SKELETAL ILLUSION

if you win, turn to 381.

SKILL 7 STAMINA 12

231

Your Ring of Fire Resistance ensures that you suffer
little damage from the spell; deduct 1 point from
your STAMINA. Now you race up to the balcony!
Turn to 110.

232-235

232
The feather is of no use against the swarming biting
rats. Lose 1 STAMINA point because you have been
bitten while wasting time retrieving the feather.
You realize your blunder and run away; turn to 251.

233
There is nothing you can do to open this chest
Frustrated, you stride out of the room and make
your way to the door at the south end of the mam
passage, and open it. Turn to 124.

234
The blocks of incense will fit into this burner which
you may Carry with you; except during a combat,
you can burn a block at any time (remembering to
subtract a block from the list of Equipment Carried
on your Adventure Sheet when you do this). Each
block of incense is a magical block of Incense af
Blessing and, when you burn it and inhale the
fumes, you will regain 3 STAMINA points. Turn to

305.

235
The Birdman shakes his head sadly; your gift is no
use to him. Tum to 322.

236-238

236
After your triumph over the Skeleta] Warrior, you
take a quick look around. The chamber is very bare,
tecking anything of interest, so you take the steps
down. These steps twist and turn as they descend,
but there are burning wall-bracketed torches to light

‘sour way. At last, you emerge at an archway cut

mto the wall of a chamber; you think that this is the
north wall, but you cannot be certain. Pausing, you
bear no sound, so you step into the room. Turn to

52

257
Do you have a silver medallion? If you do, turn to

192, If you don’t, turn to g.

238

You trudge on; the light begins to fail. Not far away,
you make out a small cave in the hills to the west of
the path. It’s too dangerous to sleep out in the open,
so you approach the cave carefully and move in. It
looks empty, so you light your lantern and peer into
the gloom. The floor is littered with rocks, but not
too wet. Do you want to settle down to sleep im-
mediately (turn to 337) or check under the rocks on
the floor first (turn to 159)?

“WF OO IS OY.

v S, ‘e =~
AO Bia
“> , , :

sit ih?

239-240

239
You are awakened by the Sprite rummaging
through your backpack! Angrily you grab him and
put a stop to his thievery. He whimpers and begs
vou to spare his life; he even offers you magic if you
will let him go. Do you want to break the little pest’s
neck (turn to 278) or tell him that you might spare
his life after all (turn to 39)?

240
You are now fighting a huge, angry Sea Giant, and
you're in big trouble!

SEA GIANT SKILL 10 STAMINA 17

If you win, you can go west along the trail (turn to
257) or north, in the direction the giant came from
(turn to 182).

241-242

241

As your final lunge destroys the Skeleton Man, its
bones fall in a heap to the ground. From the skull
plume of black smoke arises, taking the shape of
grinning vaporous rat! Red glowing eyes form and
glare balefully at you. Then the smoke-wraith floats
down to the floor and passes right through it! Un-
nerved by this, you pause to compose yourself then
continue south. Turn to 156.

242
You give the man some food and water (deduct 1
from your Provisions total) and he seems to revive
briefly. He is still very ill, but at least your kind act
makes him more comfortable, and he whispers a
few words: ‘Orcs. . . guards. . . south. You could
surprise them . . . secret door in west before their
door. . . but later, beyond, evil. . .” and then heis
too weak to say more. He coughs horribly, and his
last act is to point at a part of the wall behind him
before, with a final gasp, he expires. You remaina
few seconds in deep thought over the corpse.

243

Looking at the wall where he pointed, you observe
wme slightly loosened brick which is out of reach of
Se chained prisoners. Will you:

Investigate the loose brick?

Go back to the southern passage
and investigate the door at
the end of it?

Go back to the southern passage
and look for the secret door
the man mentioned?

Turn to 178

Turn to 227

Turn to 98

243
Too late, you realize that the Troll must have meant

_# password when he spoke his last few words . .

the way through the eastern door must be blocked
*y magic — and you can’t get through it! Worse,
smoke is now billowing into the room, and as you
ok into the cloud of smoke you can see that the

_ ead fumes are already eating away the body of the

Troll! If that is what the smoke can do to a Troll,

_snagine what it will do to you! Now you must Test

your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 146. If you are
 niucky, turn to 271.

244-245

244
Since you and Mordraneth are both spellcasting,

you must first roll two dice for each of you, then ad@
your respective SKILL scores (Mordraneth’s sx1
score is 10), to determine the Attack Strength for
both of you. Re-roll any tied scores. If you have the
higher Attack Strength during this Attack Round.
turn to 199. If Mordraneth has the higher Attack
Strength, turn to 78.

245

You follow the passageway beyond the door until
you come to another door. This is slightly ajar, and
you peer round it into the room beyond. An oaken
table stands in the middle of the room, with a large
tablecloth covering it; on the table you see silver
cutlery, fine porcelain and cut crystal, and bread.
meats and fruit laid out ready to eat! There is no sige
of anyone in the room, so you enter. You see that
there are two other doors in the room, one in the
east and one in the west wall. Will you:

246-247
Sit down and eat some food? Turn to 324
Open the east door? Turn to 248
Open the west door? Turn to 17

246
You cannot easily open the locked chest without a
special item to help you. Do you have an Ebony
Rey? If you do, turn to 355. If you don’t, turn to 81.

247

You follow the twisting, turning passageway until it
ends at a door. You force the door open and enter a
square plain stone chamber, which has the statue of
2man.on one wall and two passages opposite; one is
ue, one violet. As you step in, wisps of smoke
four from the mouth of the stone statue and forma
vellow skeletal figure which glides across the floor
and extends its hooked, clawed talons to rip at your
roat! Will you:

Fight the Skeletal Illusion? Turn to 397
Run for the blue passage? Turn to 361
Run for the violet passage? Turn to 31

| ! YY 248-249
aa , { f] 248

You open the door into an untidy room with plain
furnishings, where you see a young red-haired man
sitting at a desk. As you enter, he leans back and
twirls a dagger in the palm of his hand. ‘You might
have knocked,’ he says reproachfully, fiddling with
acuff-button on his maroon jerkin. He’s not making

any hostile moves, but clearly he expects a reply!
Will you:

Attack the young man? Turn to 3
Say the people upstairs sent you? = Turn to 196
Say you're a tradesman? Turn to 60

249
On this foggy morning, you make out the Isle of
Despair, a short distance away to starboard. Cap-
tain Garaeth explains that there is no natural har-
dour here, and you must make your own way from
now on. The crew lower a rowing-boat into the
water and, taking all your equipment and Pro-
visions, you lower yourself into the boat and row for
the shore, as the Petre! glides slowly away into the
gloom.

= _

250-253

You are nearly ashore when a huge pair of grer
pincers, trailing green and purple strands of se

weed, rise from the shallow water and snap at yoz

oar! The streaked grey shell, beady eyes and hooked

jaws of a giant Skull Crab emerge after them! Wik)

you:
Fight the creature? Turn to 207
Throw some food at it? Turn to 278
Try to row to shore quickly and
get away? Turn to 22

250
You make your way back to the crossroads. Now
you can either turn west along an unmarked trail or
go south past the bloodied feathers on a pointed
stick, set into the ground. If you go west, turn te
181. If you go south, turn to 128.

251
You run frantically, with the rats chasing after you
and nipping at your heels. Lose 2 points from your
STAMINA through their bites. Turn to 152.

252
The magical bolus wraps itself around your neck,
strangling you! Now you must Test your Luck. If you
are Lucky, turn to 151. If you are Unlucky, turn te
308.

253
You head on towards the east, and eventually you
come to a turning to the south; but only a few yards

254-255

down it there is a wall of thick, acidic smoke whichis

tco choking for you to pass through. You continue
@m to the east, then the passageway turns north-
wards. Beyond is daylight, and you can see a
camber at the end of the tunnel, strewn with rocks
and branches. You cannot see anything hostile from
where you stand, so you enter. Turn to 354.

254
Atter a short while, all the Orcs fall into a drunken
supor; they are clearly going to be unconscious for
same time. Do you want to:

Search the room? Turn to 137
Open the north door? Turn to 346
Open the east door? Turn to 4

255
the passageway winds along, and eventually you
come to a T-junction; on the wall facing you is a
wall-carving which is rather indistinct. Do you want
iD:

Stop and look carefully at the

carving? Turn to 216
Take the north passage? Turn to 184
Take the south passage? Turn to 129

256-258

256
‘The nest is just up there, to the north-east,’ says ti
lizard; and indeed you can just make it out, on topal
a rocky outcrop. There doesn’t seem to be anyone
home, either! Perhaps you can climb up a
ambush the birds as they return . . . so you set ©
for the nest. Turn to 206.

257
You set off west along the trail. Misty drizzle begin
to fall, and you feel wet, uncomfortable and mise
able. At mid-day you must stop and eat a meal;
you take out some food, you find that the damp
seeped through your backpack and some of your
food is spoiled. Reduce your Provisions by 2. Ture
to 38.

258
Did you offer a Gold Piece to the Natives you
met first? If you did not, turn to 144. If you did
the shaman regretfully accepts that you have ne
Treasure left, and says, ‘It was generous of you t
give my men what you did. In token of this, J w
give you a giftin return.’ He has a servant bring him
a small silver box which he opens; from inside, he
takes out and flourishes an Ebony Key which he
gives you (add this to the list of Equipment Carried
on your Adventure Sheet). ‘This was taken from #
place below the mountains; it may unlock the way %&
treasures for you,’ he says.

You thank him for his gift, and you sleep well in the
small hut he provides for you. Turn to 101.

259-260

259
® takes you some time to search through the muck
end clutter, and you are weakened by the foul
stmosphere. Deduct 2 points from your STAMINA.

However, your search is rewarded. You find 2 Gold

Pieces the Rat Men had hidden (add these to your

Treasure on your Adventure Sheet) and also a back-
pack - taken, no doubt, from some adventurer
Sllen victim to the Rat Men. Inside it, you find a

eappling iron attached toa rotten, useless length of
wope which you discard, and a blue silk glove in
perfect condition! On the palm you notice an em-
broidered motif of two intertwined snakes coiled
round a staff bearing runes. The glove fits your left
band perfectly, so you slip it on. Recover 1 Luck
point! Add both these items to the list of Equipment
Carried on your Adventure Sheet. You set off back
south; turn to 303.

260
The door won’t open! You try forcing it and using
the bunch of keys the Troll had, but all efforts are
useless. Do you have an Ebony Key, and will you
use it to try and open this door? If you have the key
and want to use it here, turn to 19. If you don’t have
a, or would rather not use it, turn to 243.

261-262

261

The blue passage leads down, becoming a steeper
and steeper decline. It opens into a huge trapezoidal
chamber with a passageway exit in the far distance —
and in this chamber sits a vast Blue Dragon! It lifts its
head towards you, and lightning crackles in its
throat. This is a truly terrifying enemy, and one you
hardly expected to see here. It must be an illusion,
surely . . . ? Will you:

Attack the Dragon with your

sword? Turn to 244
Cast a ‘Dispel Illusion’ spell

(if you can)? Turn to 111
Run back down the passage? Turn to 341

262
You open the door and look into a chaotic shambles
of a room; crude wooden furniture has been tipped
over and smashed jugs and torn papers lie about the
place. Two Orcs are fighting each other with
swords; each calls out to you for help against the
other, Will you:

263-264
Leave them to it and head west
along the passage? Turn to 97
Help one Orc against the other? Turn to 148
Fight both Orcs? Turn to 363
263

You slip on the Bronze Ring, if you’re not already
wearing it; while it still seems fairly hot, you’re not
damaged by the heat. You realize the ring is a
magical Ring of Fire Resistance, and you get safely
to the orange passage where the heat is less intense.
Turn to 362.

264
The Orcs have nothing but 1 Gold Piece which one
cares in a pouch (take this and add it to your
Treasure on your Adventure Sheet). Their dirty, lice-
ridden chamber smells awful, and you leave in
haste; you can either open the easterly door here
(turn to 315) or the door to the south (turn to 333).

265-266

265
You push open the trapdoor and haul yourself up
into a room above. But as you do so, you miss a
handhold and, while you get up safely, you make
rather a lot of noise doing it.

A light flares in the room as a lamp is Jit, and you
hear the scrape of metal on stone; an Orc comes
snarling towards you, picking up his sword from
the floor beside his bed. You get to your feet just in
time to fight him on equal terms.

ORC SKILL 5

if you win, turn to 99.

STAMINA 5

266
After much determined and careful chipping, a
skeletal shape begins to reveal itself. You see the
glint of metal. . . you must now stop and eata meal
during a break from your work — or deduct 2 points
from your STAMINA. Eventually, you uncover most
of a slim skeleton — an Elf, perhaps. You can make
out the rotted remains of a backpack and a useless,
rusted sword, and also a slender flask of white
metal. If you decide to investigate the flask, turn to
204. If you want to leave it unopened, turn to 156.

267

267
Opening the door, you see a storeroom, full of
clutter: half-rotted ropes, a pile of sacking, old
wooden staves, and the like. There is also a pile of
human-sized skulls on a wooden table in the centre
of the room, there might be something hidden in
that pile. Will you:

Search through the pile of

skulls? Turn to 24
Return to the goblin room and

open the north door there? Turn to 377
Return to the goblin room and

open the west door there? Turn to 205

268-269

268

You head south along the passageway, which then
turns west and opens into a chamber lit with
flaming braziers, Standing in the doorway, you can
just make out steps that lead upwards at the far end
of this chamber, and a large stone statue standing
before them. The statue, sculpted in stone, is nearly
ten feet tall, and has the head of a horned bullatopa
man’s body. It is not moving and, as you creep into
the chamber, it does not react to you. Your heart
beats strongly as you enter — will the statue attack?
To find out, turn to 366.

269
You stumble across the rocky chamber and into the
passageway beyond. Stone steps lead up to a well-
lit chamber — the lair of Mordraneth himself, you
guess. You stride into this huge, palatial chamber,
tesplendent with stone pillars, statues and wall-
hangings, and lit by flaming braziers; you stand ina
hallway with a balcony at the far end and stone
steps on either side of you leading up to that raised

270

area. On the balcony stands Arch-mage Mor
draneth himself, tall and dark, dressed in flowing
black robes. A trace of crystalline dust glitters as #
falls from his hands to the floor, and he mutters as
incantation — he is going to attack you with a spell!
Will you:

Cast a ‘Speed’ spell (if you can)?
Cast a ‘Fire Globe’ spell (if you

can)? Turn to 9q
Race up the left-hand set of

Turn to 244

stone steps? Turn to 332
Race up the right-hand set of
stone steps? Turn to 6%

270
You throw some food towards the crab, which grabs
at it and misses. You now have time to row away
while the dim-witted crab finds and gobbles down
the food. Reduce your Provisions by 1. You row to
the shoreline without further incident; turn to 102.

271-273

271

You panic, looking desperately for a way out, but
you can find none. You hammer at the eastern door,
but your attempts grow more feeble as the acid
smoke thickens and envelops you. You slump to the
ground . . . and in a few hours your body will be
nothing more than a pile of gleaming white bones.
Your quest ends here.

272
You stride along the azure passage, and you come to
a bridge over a deep, blue-tinged rock-chasm. You
carefully test the solidity of the bridge before walk-
ing across it. On the other side is a black tunnel lit
with gouts of red light which emanate from some
distant fiery source. Filled with foreboding, you
head for the dark tunnel, for this is the only exit.
Turn to 296.

273
You help the wizard to a chair and unlock his

chains, if you haven’t already done so. You must
give him either something to eat (subtract 1 from
your Provisions on your Adventure Sheet) or a
magical “potion of healing’, for he is very weak.
Turn to 140.

274-275

274

Soon you encounter a small turning south off the
main passage; looking along it, you see steps de-
scending to a chamber lit by burning braziers. With-
m it stands a massive stone statue of a bull-headed
man, motionless above the body of an Elf it has
mpped almost in two! Avoiding this horror, you
press on along the passage, which heads west and
then turns south; turn to 218.

275
The Ebony Key doesn’t fit the lock, worse luck.
Will you:

Try using the bunch of keys,

if you have them? Turn to 74
Try using the phial of white oil,

if you have it? Turn to 138
Give up and try the west door? Turn to 358
Give up and go to the south? Turn to 283

276-278

276
At the sight of the pewter ale tankard the Orcs
freeze. ‘’Struth! That’s ole Thunderguts’s tankard!
‘E’d never part wiv that! “E must uv killed ‘im!’ The
Orcs draw their weapons, and you'll have to fight
them. Turn to 185.

277
You may have found the entrance to the crypt, but
the iron bars are a definite physical obstacle to
further progress! You can try to bend them by sheer
strength if you wish (if you try this, turn to 40);
alternatively, you can just wait, keeping out of
sight, to see if anything comes along (turn to 104).

278
You grip the Sprite’s neck in your powerful hands.
As you do, a tiny silver charm about his throat
breaks and tiny shards of metal fly out and lacerate
your hands. Deduct 1 point from your SKILL and 2
points from your STAMINA. Turn to 103.

279-280

279
Your sleep is disturbed by an awful nightmare in
which you are standing ona path above a sheer rock
crevasse, fighting for your life. Flying around you,
striking with its bloodied jaws, is a black skull, its
eyes afire with an evil crimson glow. You feel with
horror its hunger for your soul, as it seems to draw
terrors and fears from within you as if to give them
substance and make them real. . . You wake up
sweating. Lose 3 STAMINA points. Although it’s
early morning, you cannot get back to sleep after
this, and so you may either get back to the trail
leading north-west (turn to 339) or open the trap-
door in the floor and explore what lies below (turn to

157).

You open the west-side door and stride along the
passageway beyond. It is darker here, and you must
use your lantern to light your way. The air grows
very damp and ahead you see that the passage leads
into a long, fairly narrow cavern. To get across, you
have to wade through a pool in the middle of it;

281

testing the water depth, you step cautiously across.
However, when you're barely half-way across, an
albino aquatic Cave Snake rears its head out of the
water and strikes at you! You have to fightit at once.
up to your waist in water and while trying to hang
on to your lantern — which isn’t easy. For this
combat, you must temporarily lose 2 SKILL points.
(Don’t make any changes to your SKILE score on
your Adventure Sheet; this is only a temporary
change.)

CAVE SNAKE

If you win, turn to 330.

SKILL 6 STAMINA 7

281

You find the secret door Alsander told you about
without difficulty, and quietly push it open. The
smooth passageway beyond is dark, but you can see
light streaming from a gap under a door at the end of
it. You move slowly up into position and kick the
door open, hoping to surprise your enemies. You
glimpse a richly furnished room, and the glint of
gold and silk and fur catches your eye, but you have
no time to take in details. The Dark Elves inside are
too agile and swift to be surprised, and now you
must fight them. Fight the Dark Elves one at a time
as you stand in the doorway.

SKILL STAMINA
First DARK ELF § 6
Second DARK ELF 7 5

If you win, turn to 96.

282-284

282
You can either search the room the guard was
occupying (turn to 132) or leave through the west
door of the dining room (turn to 27).

283

It is dark to the south, and you must have a light
source to see by (your lantern or a Magical Sword if
you have one!). Your footsteps crunch on chips of
stone, and as you look down you see other foot-
prints leading this way! Vigilantly, you walk quietly
on, Soon you see a small side-passage to the east
which ends at a wooden door with a smalliron grille
m it. You can investigate this door (turn to 131) or
continue south (turn to 227).

You come to a T-junction in the dark passages, and
you see gleams of light to both east and west. Will
you go westwards (turn to 154) or eastwards (turn to

7)?

285-287

285
There is a smell in the damp air which grows
stronger, the further you walk along: the smell of
the crypt, the dread stench of death. The passage:

way opens into a darkened chamber; even with @

lantern, you can see nothing inside it unless you
enter. You may retrace your steps west if you wish
(turn to 356) or you can enter the chamber (turn te

335):

286
You cannot get past the statue and up the stairs, se
you must fight it after all. Turn to 84.

287
You ascend to an east-west passageway. It is dark.
and you must use your lantern. You see that the
western passage soon turns south; if you want te
take this path, turn to 218. If you prefer to head
west, turn to 106.

288

288
You search through the nest and find 3 Gold Pieces
tedd these to your Adventure Sheet). You clamber
safely down from the nest, to see what reward the
@zard has for you.

The lizard looks very pleased when you return. ‘A
Sousand thanks! Here are rewards for you.’ It
@pens a scaly paw and gives you a splendid rose
pearl worth 12 Gold Pieces (add this to your
Treasure) and a small Silver Medallion on a neck-
chain, which has the palm of a hand etched uponit.
Tm not sure exactly what this is for,’ says the lizard,
‘Dut it’s some sort of magical protection against evil.
+ hope it will be of use to you.’ You take this and
wear it around your neck (add the Silver Medallion
® the list of Equipment Carried on your Adventure
Seert). To help you on your way, the lizard also
gives you a small dose of a potion which will enable
you to run quickly without getting fatigued. Thank-
mg the lizard for his gifts, you quaff the potion and
Speed away south and then turn west to get back on
the right trail. Turn to 349.

289-290

A RP
“¥

289

You slip one of the keys into the lock of the hand-

ffs and free the prisoner’s hands. His eyes gleam

ith hope as he recognizes you for a friend. ‘Step
back,’ he says grimly, ‘I’ve been longing to do this.’
He whispers a few words and conjures a small ball
of fire in his hands, then sends this flying through
the air; it grows in size and smashes into the back of
the torturer, engulfing the half-Ogre in fire and
making him screamin pain, The wizard totters back;
i's up to you to finish the job he has begun. Turn to
76. You may deduct 6 points of sTamMtNA from the
haif-Ogre’s total shown there because of the
damage inflicted by this spell.

OAR

Wis

4 fs Dent 7h

290

You creep over and dispatch the sleeping guard
witha single blow, slitting his throat. However, this
is a cowardly thing to do; to slay a fellow human
being so cold-bloodedly - even if he was evil (and
can you be certain that he was?) —is almost an evil act
itself Lose 1 point from your LUCK. Now, you can
either search the room (turn to g1) or leave and take
the southern door in the next room (turn to 245).

291-293

291
First, decide how many Gold Pieces you are willing
to gamble, up to a maximum of 6 — the Orcs aren’t

rich and they will probably attack you if they see you

have lots of Treasure! After you have decided this,
roll two dice. If the total of the dice-roll is less than or
equal to your current SKILL score, turn to 89. If the
dice-ro]l total is higher than your current SKILL
score, turn to 217.

292
After the Birdman has flown away, do you want ta

travel south and west, back the way you came (#

you do, turn to 314), or go westwards along the
other passage which leads from this roost (tum te
122)?

293
Inside the chest is a simple Silver Ring which bears
strange runes and glyphs that you cannot decipher.
You have no way of knowing what this ring’s
powers might be. If you want to carry it, or wear it,
add the Silver Ring to the list of Equipment Carried
on your Adventure Sheet, then turn to 114.

294-295

294
You apply all your strength, and the door splinters
mits frame. The effort costs you 2STAMINA points,
but now the door is open. Beyond, you can make
out only inky blackness; you must have a light
source to see by. You can either enter this dark,
torbidding room (turn to 392) or return to the main
passage and open the door at the end of it (turn to

124).

295

Among Mordraneth’s illusions, some are of fear-
some creatures which may appear real to your mind
and which you must fight. You will be told whether
a ‘creature’ is in fact an illusion; if this is the case,
you can cast the ‘Dispel Illusion’ spell and destroy
the creature automatically. However, you must do
this as soon as you attack a creature; you cannot cast
this spell once a hand-to-hand fight is in progress!
Also, the spell is only completely effective against a
single illusory creature; if you are being attacked by
several at once, then you cannot be sure how effec-
tive the spell will be. Under these conditions, you
will be asked whether you wish to use the spell and,
if you do, you will be told what effects it has. Lastly,
i you have the Platinum Amulet, you may use this
spell (and only this spell) twice, rather than only
once. Return to 188.

296-297

296

The black tunnel leads into a chamber crossed by
two deep chasms. Gouts of flame spurt into the air
fom both, and clouds of burning gases hang in the
air. On the other side of this infernal place you can
make out two passages. You step carefully across
the ground, in order to avoid the chasms and reach
the passages, but then into the air rises a ghastly
thing, malevolent and hideously evil: a jet-black
flying skull with glowing red eyes from which blood
wells and drips, hissing, into the fiery chasms be-
low. You feel the elemental evil of this thing and its
hunger for your soul! You are struck with fear;
deduct 1 SKILL point for the duration of this combat,
and lose 2 STAMINA points as well. Now you must
fight this thing, which is no illusion!

DEATH SKULL SKILL 9 STAMINA 10

lf you win, turn to 15.

297
Mordraneth’s Fire Globe crackles through the air
and strikes you before you can finish casting your
own spell; your spell is ruined and cannot be used
again. Fortunately, with your magical Ring of Fire

298-299

Resistance you lose only 1 STAMINA point. You
sprint up the left-hand set of steps and nearly get to
the evil wizard before he can cast another spell at
you — but not quite! Turn to 351.

298
Your spell was useless; the walls are closing in fast!
You can use an item from your backpack (turn to 45)
or run flat out and pray (turn to 396).

299

Your greed has overcome your caution and good
sense. The bracelet is an evil, magical thing, and it
hates anyone less evil than its previous owner. It
constricts and crushes the bones of your wrist.
Shrieking with pain, you manage to wrench the
thing off, but you lose 1 SKILL point and 2STAMINA
points from the injury it has caused you. You throw
the cursed thing down, and open the door to the
east, to get away from the carnage in here; turn to
123.

300-302

300

A quick search through the room and the goblin
bodies reveals nothing of interest or value save fora
pair of bone dice they were playing with. If you wish
to take these, add them to the list of Equipment
Carried on your Adventure Sheet. There are three
other doors in this worked stone chamber, and all
appear to be easy to open. Will you take:

The north door? Turn to 377
The west door? Turn to 205
The south door? Turn to 267

301
Amongst a lot of clutter - shells and conches and
driftwood — you find 5 Gold Pieces in a bag (add
these to your Treasure on your Adventure Sheet) and
enough preserved food (salted fish) for 4 meals.
Add this to your Provisions. You head south to get
back to the trail; turn to 257.

302
He looks over the scroll intently, but then sighs and
hands it back to you. ‘Tt is too abstruse for me to
scry. Perhaps Alkandi could help you. He is the
shaman of the tibesmen to the south. Approach
them in peace and they will not harm you; they are
good people.’ You thank him and, since he looks
better now and says he will take very great care in
future, you bid him farewell. Add 1 Luck point. As
you are about to set off, you notice the glint of gold
beneath the fallen body of one of the Hobgoblins.

303-304

You stoop down and pick up the 2 Gold Pieces you
missed before! The extra Treasure (which you ma¥

add to your Treasure on your Adventure Sheet) puts ©

you in good spirits as you set off southwards again.
Turn to 250,

393
You set off back towards the south, and return to the
junction where the wall-carving faces an eastward
passage. Will you take the passage leading east
(turn to 72) or the passage leading south (turn to
129)?

304
Hearing no sound behind the door, you open it and
enter a small unlit room, which is cool and has
shelves on which stand jars, bottles, and some
earthenware pots. Checking these, you find that
they contain foodstuffs. Most are too disgusting for
you to eat (like toasted foot-corn flakeys and
smoked dwarfburgers), but you do find a sealed jar
of sweet fruit preserve — which would certainly give
you energy! If you take this and store it in your
backpack, you may add 1 to your Provisions. Now,

305-306

you may either go back westwards and take the
porthern passage (turn to 284), or open a door in the
north wall of this small food store and see what lies
beyond (turn to 35).

395

You are tired now, and beginning to feel sleepy.
Seeing how heavily the trapdoor is barred, and how
comfortable the bed looks, you jam the chair under
the handle of the door in the north wall of this room
{where it wedges it shut splendidly) and settle
down for some rest. You sleep well and wake re-
tfreshed; recover 2 STAMINA points.

After sleeping, you unbar the trapdoor and look
down. Deciding you wil! have to investigate, you
descend the unlit steep stone steps, using your light
source to guide your way. Eventually you arrive ata
landing; a flambeau blazes and spits green flame on
the west wall and illuminates doors in the middle of
the east and south walls. Will you:

Stay still and listen for noise? Turn to 27
Open the east door? Turn to 219
Open the southern door? Turn to 245

306
As you sip the liquid, your mouth fills with pain and
you spit it out again. This is not water, this is weak
acid, the smell of which was masked by the smoky
atmosphere! Deduct 2 STAMINA points. Now, you
can either open the west door (turn to 373) or look
round the half-open east door (tum to 28)

307-399

397

The yellow-green passage soon opens into a
chamber of the same colour with a sunken, earthen
floor. Behind you the passage is constricting and
there is no way back. . . but this chamber is full of
hissing snakes which rear up and sway! On the
other side of the chamber you see two exit passages,
one of deep ochre and one of bright azure. You must
get across somehow! Will you:

Cast a ‘Dispel Illusion’ spell

: (if you can)? Turn to 221
, Hold out a hand wearing a glove,
if you have one? Turn to 29
Run across the room to the ochre
Fe; | passage? Turn to 173
. Wey mi YE mre Wines Run across the room to the azure
| unit Lal ut Pa passage? Turn to 109
*_ cath es we aM
308

The entangling bolus wraps tightly around your
throat and strangles the life out of you. You feel the
Arch-mage’s mind probing yours for fears and ter-
rors which he can put to use; as he does so, these
terrors and phobias intensify in your own mind,
and you are driven into madness . . . you have met
a terrible end in your quest for glory!

309
You cannot hope to climb the rock surface laden as
youare. You may retain your sword, leather armour

(but not chain-mail armour!), and any rings you

310

may have, plus a headband, if you are wearing one;
but you must throw away everything else you are
carrying. Then you can haul yourself up to the top of
the rock. Remove ail other items from the list of
Equipment and Treasure on your Adventure Sheet!
Turn to 62.

310
You will have to fight the two Natives together. Each
Attack Round, roll two dice for yourself and for each
of the Natives; add the total of the dice-roll to the
relevant SKILL score (either yours or theirs); the
combatant with the highest Attack Strength of
the three will be the one who lands an effective blow
during that Attack Round. Further, if you are hit by
one of the native spears, you must roll a die; ona roll
of 4-6, you will suffer 1 extra point of damage to
your STAMINA from the organic poison which coats
the spears.

SKILL STAMINA
First NATIVE 6 7
Second NATIVE 7 6

If you win, turn to 21.

311-314

311
You must Test your Luck. If youare Lucky, turn to 14.
if you are Unlucky, you have been spotted and must
fight the Hobgoblins; turn to 87.

312
You fail to bend the bars, and the strain causes you
the loss of 2 STAMINA points before you finally give
up. Cursing the creature who fashioned the sturdy
iron, you decide to stay put for a while and take a
rest. Turn to 104.

313

As you put your hand upon the door, an electrical
shock jolts through your arm; deduct 3 points from
your STAMINA, and also lose 1 SKILL point tempor-
arily (until after your next combat). Worse, the door
disappears —- it was just an illusion! As you turn
away, you become aware that the stone face
opposite is now generating black smoke from its
nostrils and that its mouth is grinning! You decide to
get away from the foul-smelling, acrid smoke and
open the south door; turn to 121.

314
You follow the tunnel west and pass a southerly
turning which is filling with black, acrid smoke; you
cannot enter it, so you continue on westwards. You
come to another turning, this time leading north;
although light is shining from it, you can heara truly
ghastly sound as some fiendish thing rips away at
flesh and snarls as it does so. You hurry past, and

3415

soon you come to a passageway leading south to
some steps; peering down, you see a chamber lit b¥
garish burning braziers. Inside the chamber there is
a pile of stone rubble and a shattered statue; beside
the rubble stands an intact statue, a bull-headed
stone man, witha dead Elf lying at its feet, the torso
almost torn in half! Is there nowhere safe in this
terrible place? Avoiding these perils, you continue
west to a point where the passage turns south and
the dreadful rending and snarling noises fade into
the distance. Turn to 218.

315

You open the door to a small, cramped bedchamber
which contains two lice-infested beds and a pile of
stinking, greasy and dirty clothes. Straw litters the
floor and a rickety table bears only a pair of evil-
smelling dirty socks and a chamber pot. Roll one
die; if the resultis a1, turn to 147. lf you roll 2-6, you
decide to go back to the guard room and open the
south door; turn to 333.

316-319

316

With a massive heave, you manage to rip the lid off
the chest, with wood-splinters flying and metal
bands buckling and snapping. Lose 3 STAMINA
points as a result of your terrific exertions; now you
Must stop and eat a meal after all this work ~ or
deduct 2 more points from your STAMINA. But at
least you have opened the chest, so you can look
inside to discover your prize. Turn to 153.

317
The gem is of no use here. Lose 1 STAMINA point
from bites sustained while you were wasting time
retrieving it. Now you see sense and run away fast!
Turn to 251.

318
Mordraneth laughs as the Fire Globe smashes into
you, causing you 6 points of STAMINA loss. If you
are still alive, you keep on up the stairs to challenge
his foul sorcery with the cold metal of your sword!
Turn to 351.

319
You move cautiously along the passage, but behind
you a strong gust of wind almost blows you over,
and then the wind grows stronger still! You cannot
keep your feet and you are being swept forward bya
maelstrom of swirling air... your body will be
smashed to pieces on the rocks below! Your head
swims with vertigo. In desperation, you clutch at an
outcrop of rockand hang on, but the wrench to your
arm costs you 2 STAMINA points. As you cling on

———— SO Oe Oe TO OT eee

320-322

for dear life, a terror of the bottomless drop fills your
heart until you manage to control it. Now you must
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 62. Jf you are
Unlucky, turn to 309.

320

The man looks at you a little suspiciously, but then -
to your relief - he shrugs his shoulders and says.
‘Urzak’s getting forgetful, it must be all those daft
incantations he chants day and night. Just go by the
west door and follow the passage to the junction,
turn right, keep on to the door with the silvered
door-handle, go in, and Mehrabian’s room is on
your left. He'll give you all the help you need.’

You thank him for his help and leave by the west
door of the dining-room; turn to 17.

321

You are now in hand-to-hand combat with the evil
Dark Priest, overseer of this part of the dungeon.
and you will not find him easy to overcome!

DARK PRIEST

If you win, turn to 187.

SKILL G STAMINA 12

322

The Birdman speaks haltingly; clearly, he is not able
to speak the human tongue very well. In his low
croaking voice he telis you this is an evil place and
that his people are being driven away by creatures
and evil magic, which are taking over the mountain.

323-325

creeping up from the Iron Crypts below. He thinks
they have a prisoner of some importance, but
knows no details. He becomes uncomfortable and
will say nothing more; and he flies off. Turn to 292.

323
‘I repeat the request but once. Give me a gem!’ the
statue roars. You must either give it a gem, if you
have one (if you do this, turn to 8), or prepare
yourself to fight the statue (turn to 84).

324

You sit down at the table and enjoy the delicious
food — this replenishes your strength, and you may
restore 3 points of STAMINA. However, just as you
are finishing your meal, the door to the east opens
and a tall, stim, red-haired young man strolls out,
picking at his fingernails with a very sharp-looking
dagger. He looks at you with some surprise,
although he makes no move to attack. He is clearly
waiting for you to say something. Will you:

Attack him? Turn to 3
Ignore him and continue eating? Turn to 212
Ignore him and get up and leave

through the west door? Turn to 17
Say the people upstairs sent you? Turn to 196
Say you're a tradesman? Turn to 60

325
‘Mordraneth has found a magical way of stealing
souls — more precisely, he has found a magical way

——eeEEooEOEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEE

325

of stealing the images and emotions of terrifying
things from the minds and spirits of the dead. Fear
of darkness, fear of death, terror of the dark night
when spectres and wraiths roam the world, fear
of falling, phobias of many kinds. From these
emotional energies and images he creates illusions
which have enough power to drive those who wit-
ness them to madness or death. He has also found
that he gets his best results with the souls of those
freshly dead, preferably killed by himself. Hence,
he will soon unleash his usionary Army on Pollua
to wreak havoc, so that he will thus have more souls
to steal. I will have to teleport to Pollua to give what
warning | can. But it is only here he can be stopped.
You are our only hope of stopping him now!’ Alsan-
der clutches your arm and gazes deep into your
eyes. ‘Thousands of innocents will be slain if you
refuse to help. The Empire of Illusions is a dreadful
place — but I can teach you a few spells to help you
there!’

How can you refuse? Your praises will be sung for
scores of years, should you succeed!

Alsander smiles, relieved. ‘It’s fortunate that Ilearnt
a little of how Mordraneth has changed magical
forces here, enough to modify some spells so I can
use them myself. But time is short, and the Dark
Elves may be here soon. I have only the time, and
the strength, to teach you three spells before I go,
and you will be able to use each one only once.’ The
wizard walks over to a small chest and puts on his
robes. To choose your spells, turn to 188.

326-327

326

You head north along a limestone passageway,
your eyes slowly adapting to the dim light provided
by stubby growths of luminous mosses and lichens
on the walls. There’s just enough light to see by, and
you're less likely to be spotted if you don’t use your
lantern. The passageway eventually bends round to
the west and stops at a dead end. But the dead end is
suspiciously smooth; as you carefully touch it, you
realize that the ‘rock’ is just an illusion - there is a
door here! Keeping your sword ready, you turn the
door handle; it gives, so you walk through. Turn to
120.

327
You pass by the skull. As you walk away, a horrid
wheezing laugh, as dry as gravedust, follows you.
You look around, and see the skull is facing you
now, its jaws open in a mocking gnn! You move
hurriedly away, and soon you are striding through
overgrown scrubland and the ground is sloping
downwards. You are heading into woodlands;

eS Ss se ll eee ee

328-329

there are many pools of stagnant water, and clouds
of buzzing insects swarm around. If you have a jar
of ointment, you must apply this now (and cross off
this item from the list of Equipment on your Adven-
ture Sheet) and you will be protected; if you do not
have the jar, you must deduct 3 points of STAMINA
because of the effects of insect bites. Turn to 191.

328
‘Sorry about Edwina,’ the Sea Giant says, ‘she’s
frisky today. I hope she hasn't hurt you? Good.’ He
looks around at the mist. ‘It’s going to rain. Would
you care for food and shelter?’ If you want to accept
his offer, turn to 118; if you decline and set off west
along the trail, turn to 257.

329
The shaman has a box brought to him by a servant,
then he lays out its contents before you. He tells you
the price of each item. You may buy whichever ones
you want (if you have the price!); add the iterns to
the list of Equipment on your Adventure Sheet, re-
ducing your Treasure accordingly. You can’t haggle

33°

with him, he’s too crafty for that. If you do not have
enough Gold Pieces for everything you'd like to
take, but you do have a rose pearl, Alkandi will give
you items up to the value of 8 Gold Pieces in return
for the pearl (and no haggling!). The items the
shaman offers you are:

A silver feather 2 Gold Pieces
An ebony key 4 Gold Pieces
A small ivory statuette of a cat 3 Gold Pieces
A 15-foot length of rope 2 Gold Pieces
A small white gem 3 Gold Pieces
A phial of white oil 2 Gold Pieces

You may also buy Provisions here; 1 Gold Piece will
buy you enough for two meals — but you cannot buy
more than this because the food is perishable and
will not stay fresh for long. When you have com-
pleted your purchases, the shaman has you shown
to a comfortable hut, where you can sleep peace-
fully, so turn to 101; but if you buy nothing, turn to

144.

330
You complete your crossing of the pool and set off
along the passageway beyond; it is still dark, so you
must use your lantern, Water drips from the ceiling
and thick hanging stalactites make progress slow
and difficult. As the passageway bends to the south,
a stalagmite formation on the floor catches your eye;
itis clearly unusual in shape. If you want to stop and
examine it more closely, turn to 145. If you want to
press on south, turn to 156.

331-333

331
The icy-cold passage leads down to a veritable
charnel-house. In the gloomy chamber, ice crystals
seem to hang in the air above a forest of unburied
skeletons which litter the cold stone floor. There are
two exit-passages not far away, close to where you
entered. Will you:

Take the light, airy way out? Turn to 319
Take the dark-brown, earthy
exit-passage? Turn to 247
Stay and say a prayer for the
souls of the dead here? Turn to 134
332

As you run up the steps, you realize that some
magical force is retarding your progress; it feels like
running through water! You grit your teeth and
struggle on, and you'll get there in the end -— but just
now a smoking ball of fire is streaking from Mor-
draneth’s hand to strike you down. Are you wear-
ing a bronze ring? If you are, turn to 47. If youaren’t,
turn to 318.

333
A passageway leads south beyond the door, and

this is dimly lit by torches in wall sconces. Following
the short passage to the end, you see that it soon
turns east; however, there is a plain darkwood door
on the west side of the passage at the end, facing the
east-turning main passageway. You cannot see to
the end of that eastern passage yet. Will you try to

334

open the door to the west (turn to 34) or press on
eastwards (turn to 364)?

4
Making a quick check, you discover a sliding panet
in the wall beside the door, and you realize this is
where the voice must have come from. You open it
and draw out a glowing sword! You take the sword
and hurry through the concealed doorway, closing
it behind you, and move on up the stairs. However,
you have inhaled some of the corrosive smoke into
your lungs; deduct 2 points from your STAMINA.

You make your way up a few stairs to breathe the
cleaner air, then pause to take a good look at the
glowing sword. It is beautifully crafted, of finest
steel, with amethysts and tourmalines in the
pommel. It does not speak to you again, but it will
glow brightly - whenever you will it to do so!
Further, this is a Magical Sword; you may add 1
point to your SKILL score when using it, and this
will allow you to exceed your Initial sk1LL score (but
this bonus applies only in combats}. What’s more,
the sword uses power to heal you — after each
combat, you may restore i point to your STAMINA
score if you have been wounded during that combat.
You cannot take this healing until after a combat
is ended. You found a powerful ally in
your struggle against the brooding evil of the Iron
Crypts! Add the Magical Sword to the list of
Equipment Carried on your Adventure Sheet. Turn
to 58.

335-338

335
Now that you are very close to the entrance, you can

see a round chamber littered with bones. Stone
steps leading down into the floor are cut in the far
end of the chamber. Turning towards you as you
gaze in is a skeletal figure carrying a huge, ice-blue,
two-handed sword. You can either flee to the west
(turn to 116) or move in to attack it (turn to 169).

336
The ‘Healing’ spell is a powerful one which will

allow you to recover lost STAMINA. You can cast
this spell at any time, except during a combat, and
you will be able to recover STAMINA points equal to
one-half your Initial STAMINA Score (rounding frac-
tions down). Return to 188.

337
You must eat another meal before sleeping, or lose 2

STAMINA points. After you’ve eaten, you unroll
your blanket and try to get some sleep. The wind
howls outside and during the night a storm
thunders overhead, but you snatch a few hours of
sleep, enough for you to get reasonable rest. Turn
to 10,

338
The Sprite has stolen something from your back-

pack! If you had up to 5 Gold Pieces, he has stolen all
of them; if you had more than 5, he has generously
left you the rest! If you had no Gold Pieces, he has
stolen your rose pearl. Turn to 103.
339-340

339

You head along the trail towards the higher peaks
You soon see that the trail leads to an entrance into
the hillside rather than continuing into the moun-
tains themselves. Moving closer, you can dis-
tinguish the motif of a skull set into the hillside
above the entrance, crafted from iron plaques and
spikes! This is obviously the way in to the dreaded
Iron Crypts. Excitement runs through your body as
you move as silently as you can towards the en-
trance, sword readied. Edging forward, you
observe a passage leading down; there is a faint
light from some luminous plants growing on the
wet limestone walls, and your eyes soon get used
to this, so you don’t need to use your lantem.
Cautiously, you move along the winding tunnel,
and soon you come to a crude wooden door block-
ing your way. You try the handle carefully, and
find you can open it with ease. Sword in hand, you
enter the room beyond. Turn to 120.

340
You try to dash past the statue. As you attempt this,
it strikes out at you and hits you; deduct 2 points
from your STAMINA. Now roll two dice. If the
dice-roll total is less than or equal to your current
SKILL score, turn to 68. If the total is greater than
your current SKILL score, turn to 286.

341-342

341
A massive lightning bolt shoots down the tunnel
after you and crashes into you, You scream in
mortal agony as pain convulses your body and you
smell burning flesh in your nostrils. As you col-
lapse, dying, you feel Mordraneth’s magic plucking
at your mind to extract the terrors and fears you
have experienced in this wretched place. Your tor-
ments have just begun, and you have failed.

342

As soon as you slay the eagle, the illusion simply
disappears, and you find yourself lying on the
ground, flailing at the empty air! A low-pitched
chuckle fills your ears. ‘Welcome to my Empire?’ the
voice gloats, ‘although I don’t think you will be here
for long.’ You see no one, and you find yourself in
the middle of a brown passage. At one end, the
passageway grows blacker; if you wish to go this
way, turn to 149. At the other, it grows green; if you
wish to go this way, turn to 395.

343-344

343
You find a leather pouch with 2 Gold Pieces on the

body of one of the Orcs (add this to your Treasure).
However, as you are checking around, Horace, the
pet rat of one of the Orcs, nips out from behind
some upturned furniture. Horace isa large and very
mean rat, and he has a tooth abscess which is
making him especially vicious today; he sinks his
yellowed fangs into your leg. Deduct 2 points from
your STAMINA. To add insult to injury, the sleek
rodent scuttles off and hides behind a pile of furni-
ture, and it isn’t worth your time or energy to
pursue him. You leave the room and head off west-
wards; tum to 97.

You hear nothing. Now open either the eastern
door (turn to 219) or the southern door (turn to 245).

345-348

345
Eating strange fungi is not exactly an intelligent
thing to do. Within a few moments you're as sick as
a dog; deduct 4 points from your sTAMINA. You
have to sit and rest for a while before you can
continue west; turn to 51.

346
As you open the door, clouds of heavy, thick black
smoke roll down the corridor towards you, You
shut the door and turn away, opening the east door
in the Orcs" room. Turn to 4.

347
The ship’s crew are glad to see you win — but they

also saw you try to run away, and mutterings are
heard about cowardice. If you need to eat one or
more meals to restore lost STAMINA, you'll have to
use your own Provisions to do so, so alter your
Provisions accordingly. Turn to 249.

348

You hear a shout and the patter of nasty little goblin
feet, then the sound of creaking railings. The goblin
has called a friend along, and they opened the gates
and now stand before you, their swords at the
ready. It is futile to try talking to them, so you must
fight them. Fight the goblins one at a time, as you
are backed up in a side-tunnel.

SKILL STAMINA
First GOBLIN 5 6
Second GOBLIN 6 5

349

If you win, the gates are open and you can now head
along the passageway, keeping your sword un-
sheathed — there may be more goblins about! Turn
to 326.

349
You make good progress along the trail, but as the

sun begins to set you see no sign of a safe place to
sleep; there are hills to the north, and only the
continuing trailin the west. . . tothe south there’sa
small copse of trees nestling against the rock face.
You move up to take a look around. As you warily
check the trees, a tiny, thin face with drooping,
pointed ears and sharp little black eyes peers round
a clump of bushes. ‘Are you looking for somewhere
to sleep? the Tree Sprite asks shyly. You nod your
head, and he races up a tree trunk and fumbles at
something out of sight. Then he throws down a
rope hammock! ‘Get up in the trees,’ he urges,
‘there might be a wolf about - or worse.’

He dances away through the high branches and is
gone. You take his advice, clamber up a tree, rig up
the hammock, and settle into a sound sleep. Do you
have any Treasure? If you do, turn to 158. If you
don’t, turn to 103.

350-351

350

Alkandi reads the scroll, and a worried frown
crosses his brow. ‘Ihave sensed some magical evil in
the night-time breezes lately; whisperings of tor-
mented souls imprisoned by an evil creature, This
may be the singing which the writer speaks of. I feel
also that the spirits of the dead lie uneasy here, that
old terrors are awakened by one who has come
here. Perhaps this one is the Stealer of Souls men-
tioned. I can tell you no more, but take heed of the
writer's words and beware of singing voices that
lure you!’ Pondering his words, you set off north
towards the crossroads and, once there, you turn
west along the unmarked trail. Turn to 181,

351
You still can’t reach Mordraneth; as he chants, a
whirling bolus of black threads matenalizes above
his head and whirls through the air towards you.
Are you wearing a silver ring? If you are, turn to 79.
If you aren’t, turn to 252.

352-353

352
All the rats vanish! You run towards the distant
light. Turn to 152.

353
The Orc has 1 Gold Piece which you may take (add

this to your Treasure) but his flask has shattered on
the ground and his oil is spilled. The Priest’s armour
is ruined by a sword thrust, and you'd rather have
your sword than his flail. But he does wear a gold
bracelet. Will you:

Take the Dark Priest’s

bracelet? Turn to 299
Look through the south door in

the Ore’s room? Turn to 82

Try the door to the east in

the Ore’s room? Turn to 124

354-357

354
As you enter the chamber, a figure opposite you

stirs: a strange creature with the body shape of a
man, but one who has feathers, great wings for
arms, talons for feet, and a beaked face. He looks at
you suspiciously from his perch on a ledge which is
open to the skies. Will you:

Attack him? Turn to 186

Talk with him? Turn to 322

Offer him a gift of some kind? Turn to 67
355

The Ebony Key shrinks a little in size to fit the small
keyhole of the chest, which springs open. However,
the Ebony Key immediately vanishes! Cross it off
the list of Equipment Carried on your Adventure
Sheet. Turn to 153.

356

As you travel in a westerly direction, a faint singing
can be heard on the air, as if a subterranean choir
was at its devotions in the far distance. You see that
the passage turns north and opens into a vaulted
chamber from which the sound seems to be coming.
You can either enter the chamber (turn to 36) or
retrace your steps back east (turn to 193).

357
The carpets and furs in this room are valuable, but

far too heavy to carry. However, looking around,
you find a crowbar in one corner of the room, and

358-362

you may take this (add it to the list of Equipment
Carried on your Adventure Sheet). Now you must
Test your Luck; if you are Lucky, turn to 163. If you
are Unlucky, turn to 139.

358
You open the door effortlessly, but now you must
Test your Luck! If you are Lucky, turn to 179. If you
are Unlucky, turn to 195.

359
Do you have either or both a pewter ale tankard or a

pair of bone dice? If you do, turn to 105; if you have
neither, turn to 161,

360
You rush the lizard — which simply vanishes before
you can get to it! Then a whispering voice pro-
nounces a curse on you for attacking one who meant
you no harm; deduct 1 point from your Luck. You
run off southwards in fear; turn to 54.

361
You do not make it before the Skeletal Illusion
strikes you in the back. Lose 2 STAMINA points.
Then your adversary appears in front of you! Tum

to 397.

362
You are about half-way along the passage when you
are suddenly snatched up into the air as the ceiling
dissolves! The area is filled with airy, yellowish

363-364

light, and as you float in the air you become aware of
a great eagle flying in to attack you. Surely it’s an
illusion . . . but your senses say it is real, and you
can see blood on its talons and beak. You must fight
it, and you have to subtract 2 points from your
SKILL while doing so (this is a temporary loss, for the
length of this combat only, as it isn’t easy to fight
floating in mid-air when you're not used to it!).

EAGLE-ILLUSION
If you win, turn to 342.

SKILL 7 STAMINA 8

363

You must fight both Orcs together in this chamber.
Roll two dice for yourself then for both the Orcs each
Attack Round. The combatant with the highest
Attack Strength (dice-roll total plus current SKILL)
is the one who will get in a successful strike during
that Attack Round. Fortunately, the Orcs are both
slightly wounded already.

SKILL STAMINA
First ORC 5 3
Second ORC 5 4
If you win, turn to 65.

364

At the end of the passageway leading east, you
stand before a door marked with a black and amber
cross. You can either open the door (turn to 393) or
go back to the west and investigate the door you
noticed before, opposite the turning east (turn to

34).

365-366

365

As you approach the dead end, the ‘wall’ at the end
seems to evaporate away, forming into a large eight-
legged yellow beetle with black wings and barbed
jaws from which acid drips and hisses on the stone
floor. The insect springs soundlessly forward at you
before you can run. Io you havea silver medallion?
If you do, turn to 179. If you don’t, turn to 389.

366
As you set foot in the chamber, the statue raises its
right hand and grates out, ‘Give me a gem.’ Will
you:

Attack the statue? Turn to 84
Give the statue a gem, if you

have one? Turn to &
Do nothing for the moment? Turn to 323

Try to run past the statue
to the stairs? Turn to 340

367-369

367
You are confronted by a Dark Priest. You must fight
for your life against this pitiless enemy, in this dark
and terrible place!

DARK PRIEST SKILL 9
If you win, turn to 117.

STAMINA 13

368
You clamber into the nest. There are two eggs here,
and you espy gold glinting in the nest as well — but
mother Stormbird is swooping down from the sky!
You must fight her.

GIANT STORMBIRD SkILL7 STAMINA 12

If you win, turn to 288.

369

You cannot free the wizard, but at least you let him
know you're a friend. You must fight the half-Ogre
torturer; turn to 76.

370-372

379
You hear the sound of snoring from behind the door
to the east. You can either open it (turn to 107) or
open the south door instead (turn to 245).

371
You cast your spell, and the spider shrinks back
with a high-pitched, shrieking whine — but then it
advances again; this illusion is so powerful that your
spell has weakened it, but not destroyed it. You
must now deal with it; turn to 175 and, if you must
fight it, you may subtract 4 points of srAMINA from
the spider’s score thanks to the effects of your spell.

372
Choose the spell you’re going to cast. Count up the
number of letters in the name of the spell, and turn
to the paragraph of that number. If a spell is de-
scribed there, you will be safe; if not, ignore the
paragraph you had turned to, and turn to 298 in-
stead,

373-374

373
[t is absolutely impossible to open this door! It is

barred and clearly is magically locked, so you give
up and look round the east door. Turn to 28.

374
You open the box carefully, and inside you find a

stoppered glass vial. The contents have long dried
out, but there is some green residue left; after
adding a little water, you have reconstituted a
magical Potion of Healing! This will restore 4
STAMINA points when you drink it, which you can
do at any time, except during combats. If you want
to keep this for later, add it to the list of Equipment
Carried on your Adventure Sheet, but cross it off
when you do use it!

Pleased with your find, you decide to go back into
the main corridor leading south and check the west

375-378

wall for the secret door the man in the cell told you
about; turn to 98.

375
You push open the trapdoor and haul yourself up.

You are in a dark room, and you can hear snoring
close to you. Quietly, you tiptoe across the room,
avoiding obstacles, towards a peacefully slumber-
ing Orc. Taking no chances, you dispatch him with
one swift blow as he sleeps. Turn to gg.

376
You head back to the north, but when you enter the
chamber you find it is filling with thick black smoke
that is pouring from the stone face on the wall! The
smoke is choking and deadly. Hastily shutting the
door behind you, you go back south; you must enter
the room at the end of the passageway, You can
rush in with your sword in hand, ready to fight
(turn to 25), or you can enter without your weapon
readied, trying a more peaceable approach (turn to

209).

377
The door opens, revealing a passageway beyond;

this ends at a T-junction. From here you can either
go west (turn to 255) or east (turn to 169).

378
‘Good,’ says the lizard, ‘so you won’t have any
trouble with the one that’s left, will you?’ There is no
answer to this. Turn to 256.

eee

EE ——_ <_<

379-380

379
Struggling across rocky terrain, you arrive at the

building just as twilight descends, This is a small,
simple structure, without windows, but with an
open door facing west. Itis too gloomy to see what is
inside. You will have to enter, for you need safe
shelter, so you light a lantern and move in.

A groan greets you as you enter. In the gloom you
make out a man chained to a wall, on one side of
what could be an altar. He reaches out a hand to you
as you enter and begs your help, mumbling in an
unknown tongue. Will you:

Attack him? Turn to 69
Approach and help him? Turn to 390
Stay where you are and look

around you? Turn to 37

380
You are now fighting the single Orc remaining, who
curses your treachery!

ORC SKILL 5 STAMINA 3

If you win, turn to 65.

eee

381-383

381
Now you may take the blue passageway (turn to
261) or the violet one (turn to 150).

382
You run blindly and blunder into a grey passage.
You are running in fear, and you must deduct 1
point from your SKILL (this is temporary, and lasts
until you have finished your next combat) and lose 2
STAMINA points. Turn to 112.

383
Mehrabian opens the door and drags out an old
man, chained hand and foot. He ts dirty, haggard
and in pain, and below his eyes are dark circles of
suffering. ‘I won't talk,’ he says weakly.

‘Oh yes yer will, you ole bagger wind,’ replies the
half-Ogre, kicking the man to the ground. ‘Gerrim
up on the rack,’ he tells you as he goes off to geta
branding iron or two. You can either attack the
half-Ogre (turn to 76) or help the old man (turn to
108).

384-385

384

This set of steps is protected by some kind of
magical force which slows your progress; it might
have taken ages to reach the balcony but for your
own ‘Speed’ spell! But Mordraneth will clearly have
time to loose off one more spell before you can get to
him. He scatters more dust into the air as he chants,
and a Fire Globe comes streaking through the air at
you! Are you wearing a Bronze Ring? If you are,
turn to 231. If you aren’t, turn to 166.

385

You enter a chamber which has a high, rocky ledge
at the north end on which a bird sits, ripping at
some bloodied mess (you can make out a human-
like rib cage). The bird isn’t very big, but its beak
looks razor-sharp and is long, cruelly pointed, and
stained with blood. It squawks and flies to attack
you!

RAZORBEAK BIRD SKILL 8 STAMINA 7

If you win, turn to 26.

386-387

386
The Ebony Key slips into the lock and the door
opens soundlessly, revealing a small room, feature-
less save for a sealed chest which stands ona central
plinth. Do you want to enter this room and open the
chest (turn to 293) or leave it and head back east
{turn to 114)?

387

You move wearily along the corridor which termin-
ates abruptly at a brown archway; beyond this you
hear the sound of dripping water, and there is a foul
stench here. Beyond the archway is a sewer — but
there’s nowhere else to go, so you wade into the
scum and muck, and fight down your nausea. As
you progress, you see glowing rainbow-coloured
lights in the distance, and stride out to the welcome
_ light; but you hear scrabbling sounds and squeaks
that grow louder. Then the water seems to boil as a
swarm of plague rats bursts forth and nips your legs
and body! Will you:

Cast a ‘Speed’ spell, if you

can? Turn to 23
Cast a ‘Dispel Illusion’ spell, if

you can? Turn to 352
Fight the rats? Turn to 80

Search in your backpack for
something to use against the

rats? Turn to 48
Run towards the light as fast
as you can? Turn to 251

388-391

388
At last your patient travels are rewarded. You turna
corner and, some fifty yards away, you see a pair of
iron-railinged gates, set into limestone walls. You
have reached your first goal — the entrance to the
Iron Crypt! Turn to 277.

389
Something in you senses that this creature is
magical and unreal, but you'll still have to fight
it!
BEETLE-ILLUSION
Each time the Beetle-[lusion bites you, you must
roll one die; on a roll of 1-3, take one extra point of

damage to your STAMINA, from the acid on its jaws.
If you win, turn to 115.

SKILL 5 STAMINA 6

390

As you move towards him, a sphere of deepest
blackness flies from the fingers of his outstretched
hand and engulfs you in a chilling circle of marrow-
freezing cold as the illusion of his appearance
vanishes. Deduct 6 STAMINA points. If you are still
alive, the Dark Priest, armour-clad and mace-
wielding, moves in for the kill, Turn to 367.

391
This was a foolish waste of a spell; the “Dispel
Illusion’ spell works against only illusory creatures,
and has no effect here. Turn to 382.

| a

392-393

392

By your light source, you see that just beyond the
doorway is a small alcove which opens into an
almost circular room with a high domed ceiling. The
walls are streaked with slime and mould, and the air
is damp and stale. In the centre of the room, on a
stone pedestal, is a chest made of rosewood, heavily
banded and bound with black iron. The chest also
has a guardian!

You glimpse an extraordinary creature flying to-
wards you. Its body is a sphere of slimy grey-green
scales, and two glowing, slitted red eyes glare at
you. There is a small central fanged mouth on the
sphere-body, but this is clearly not what the mon-
ster attacks with: it has two sharply clawed pincers
that trail at the ends of two black-flecked green
tentacles hanging below the body. The Diadrone is a
strong guardian, and you will have to fight it; it flies
too fast for you to escape.

DIADRONE SKILL 8 STAMINA 12

If you win, turn to 22.

393
You enter a well-lit room where an Orcis standing at

a table, pouring oil into an intricate brass vessel of
some kind. Around the table stand a few chairs, but
there is no other decoration, save for a crude bunk
bed. Two other doors lead south and east from this
room.

The Orc snarls and draws his sword, and you must

Oo ——E——E——EE—E===

394-396

fight him; but what really worries you is that as you
enter he shouts, ‘Master! Master!’ . . .

ORC SKILL §
If you win, turn immediately to 202, without taking

any further actions of any sort! The Orc’s master is
about to arrive!

STAMINA 6

394
You are now fighting a Spider-Illusion, and if your

sword is not a match for this dread creation, your
adventure will end here!

SPIDER-ILLUSION SKILL 8 STAMINA 12
If you win, turn to 269.

395
You follow the green passage, and it takes on an

increasingly blue tint, gradually shading to royal
blue. The passage seems to go on for ever ...
‘You'll die of fatigue,’ gloats the ghostly voice, ‘or
will your end be swifter?’ Suddenly you hear the
rush of water ahead of you, and a huge wave comes
roaring down the passageway towards you! You
turn to run, but the water smashes over you and
knocks you, winded, to the ground. Water fills your
lungs and your frantic efforts grow weak as you
drown. Turn to 13.

396
The walls compress and you stumble and fall; they
close in on you, and you are being crushed to death.
You feel ribs crack, and then you see the face of a
dark-haired man radiating evil. He gloats: ‘So

397-399

powerful, the fear of enclosed spaces . . . anillusion
which kills by trauma and shock . . . Farewell,
foolish warrior. There will be none to stop me now.’
Mordraneth’s laughter is the last sound you will
ever hear. Your quest ends here.

Do you have a silver medallion? If you do, turn to
95. If you don’t, turn to 230.

398

The figure holds your head in its hands, and you
feel energy pour into you. Regain 1 point of SKILL, 1
point of LUcK and 4 points of STAMINA; the LUCK
point (and only the LUCK point) can take you above
your initial LUCK score, if this applies here. But this
effort drains the figure; slowly he fades away to
nothingness. One of the other figures says softly,
‘Now he is at peace. He has sacrificed his soul to
give you strength to overcome the evil wizard. Do
not fail his memory.’ Filled with new hope, you
press on. Will you:

Take the yellow-green passage? Turn to 307
Take the azure passage? Turn to 272
Take the ochre passage? Turn to 77

399
As you prod at the lid of the chest, a scything blade
swings up from a crack in the stone floor — merci-
fully, on the side of chest opposite you! That was a
close call! Now you may try to open the chest; turn
to 246.

400

400

As Mordraneth falls at your feet, a great sigh is
audible all round you, as if from hundreds of
thousands of souls freed from a dreadful imprison-
ment of endless torment. Around you colours shim-
mer and grow pale, leaving only bare grey stone
as the evil one’s illusions decay and fade. Beyond
the balcony, you now make out a passage, leading
upwards to the fresh, clean air of the open world
under the heavens, and you believe you can almost
smell the sea. Perhaps Captain Garaeth will already
be waiting to take you back to Pollua, to the glory
and rewards you have so richly earned. Sheathing
your sword for the last ime, you stride upwards to
find out.

