NT

PRESE

—<e

ory

a

!

90000

-38

326758

780140

ISBN 0-14-032675

ies sold worldwide

— red +

9

ion cop

ill

FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS

Over 10 m

PUFFIN BOOKS

DAGGERS OF DARKNESS

As one of Segrek’s Select you could be the heir to the Great
Throne of Kazan. But the ancient system of succession in this
strange and wild kingdom is under threat from the forces of
evil in the guise of the murderous vizier Chingiz. Time is
running out for you already. Following an assassin’s attempt
on your life, your body is infected with poison from a Death
Spell Dagger forged by Chingiz himself. Unless you reach
the Great Throne in time and hand back the dagger to its
maker, you will perish and Chingiz and his dark creatures
will rule the land.

Who knows what evil will pour out of Kazan if you fail in
your quest? The destiny of the Great Throne depends on
YOU.

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you need to embark
on this thrilling adventure, which is complete with its elabo-
rate combat system and a score sheet to record your gains
and losses.

Many dangers lie ahead and your success is by no means
certain. YOU decide which routes to follow, which dangers
to risk and which adversaries to fight!
Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks

THE WARLOCK GE FIRVTOT MOUNTAIN —
THE CITADET OF CHAOS —
THE FUREST OF baOMmM —
STARSHIP TRAVELLER —

CIty OT THIEVES —_
DGEATUTRAI DURGEGN —
ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING ~
SCURIION 5SWanr =
CAVERNS OF THE SNOW WiiIthH ~
HOUSE OFHEIL —

. TALISMAN DOP DLATH —
SPACE ASSASSIN —

3 KEE WAYERIGHTER —

14. TEDITLE OF TERRUR

15. THE RINGS OF KETHER

16. Sas OF KLOOD

{F7. APPOINIMENT WITH F.t. 4.4.
18. REBEL PLANET

Ig. DEMONS UFTHE ber —

20. SWORD OF THESANURAI _
31, TKEIAL OF CHAMPIONS

22. ROBOT COMMANDY

23. MASKS OP MAYHEM

24: CHEATURT OF RAVOC

25. BENEATH NIGHTMARE CASTLE
zh. ChyFrT OF THE SORCERER

27. STAR STRIDER

28. PHANTOMS OF FEAR

79. MIDNIGHT ROGUE —

30. CHASMS OF MALICE

31. BATTLEBLADE WARRIOR-

32. SLAVES OF THE ABYSS

35. SKY LORD

34. STRALER OF SOULS

-

oun bs

~~
MED oy

-
te

a
SP

Steve Jackson's sorcery!
1. The Sharnutenti Hills -
2. Kharé-Cityport of Traps -
3. The Seven Serpents
4, The Crown of Kings

FICHTING FANTASY: [he Introductury Role-pleying Game
YHE RIDNLING REAVER

OUT OF THE rit— Fighting Fantesy Monsters

TITAN: The Fighting Fantasy World

Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone
present:

Luke Sharp
Qlustrated by Martin McKenna

PLCEFIN BOOKS
Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks

1. THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP MOUNTAIN —
THE CITADEL OF CHAOS =
3. THE FORESTOFDOOM —
4 STARSHIP TRAVELLER —
5. CITY OF THIEVES ._
6. DEATHTRAP DUNGEON —
7. ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING ~
8. SCORPION SWAMP ie
9. CAVERNS OF THESNOW WITCH ~
10. HOUSEOFHELL =
11. TALISMAN OF DEATH —
12. SPACE ASSASSIN —
13. FREEWAY FIGHTER —
14. TEMPLE OF TERROR
15, THE RINGS OF KETHER
16, SEAS OF BLOOD
17. APPOINTMENT WITH F.E.A.R.
18. REBEL PLANET
19. DEMONS OF THE DEEP —
20. SWORD OF THESAMURAL _
21. TRIAL OF CHAMPIONS
22. ROBOT COMMANDO
23. MASKS OF MAYHEM
24. CREATURE OF HAVOC
25. BENEATH NIGHTMARE CASTLE
26. CRYPT OF THE SORCERER
27. STAR STRIDER
28. PHANTOMS OF FEAR
29. MIDNIGHT ROGUE —
30. CHASMS OF MALICE
31. BATTLEBLADE WARRIOR.
32. SLAVES OF THE ABYSS
33. SKY LORD
34. STEALER OF SOULS

Steve Jackson’s SORCERY!
1. TheShamutanti Hills —
2. Kharé — Cityport of Traps -
3. TheSevenSerpents |
4. The CrownofKings —

FIGHTING FANTASY: The Introductory Role-playing Game
THE RIDDLING REAVER

OUT OF THE PiT-— Fighting Fantasy Monsters

TITAN: The Fighting Fantasy World

Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone
present:

Luke Sharp

Illustrated by Martin McKenna

PUFFIN BOOKS
PUFFIN BOOKS

Published by the Penguin Group
27 Wrights Lane, London w8 5rz, England
Viking Penguin Inc., 40 West 23rd Street, New York, New York 10010, USA
Penguin Books Australia Ltd, Ringwood, Victoria, Australia
Penguin Books Canada Ltd, 2801 John Street, Markham, Ontario, Canada 13R 184
Penguin Books (N Z) Ltd, 182-190 Wairau Road, Auckland 10, New Zealand

Penguin Books Ltd, Registered Offices: Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England
First published 1988

Concept copyright © Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone, 1988
Text copyright © Luke Sharp, 1988
Illustrations copyright © Martin McKenna, 1988
Map copyright © Leo Hartas, 1988
All rights reserved

Filmset in 11/13pt Linotron Palatino by
Rowland Phototypesetting Ltd,
Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk

Made and printed in Great Britain by
Cox and Wyman Ltd, Reading, Berks

Except in the United States of America,
this book is sold subject to the condition
that it shall not, by way of trade or otherwise,
be lent, re-sold, hired out, or otherwise circulated
without the publisher's prior consent in any form of
binding or cover other than that in which it is
published and without a similar condition
including this condition being imposed
on the subsequent purchaser

To the Return of the Hero
with help from
Colin Meikle
Michael Bishop
Karl Johan Durr Sorenson
and A.I.B.
CONTENTS

9

8

DAGGERS OF DARKNESS
4
HOW TO FIGHT THE CREATURES OF
KAZAN

Before embarking on your adventure, you must first
determine your own strengths and weaknesses.
You must work out your initial LUCK, SKILL and
STAMINA scores. You may use the Adventure Sheet
on pages 18—19 to record all the details of an adven-
ture. Here you will find boxes for recording your
SKILL, STAMINA and Luck scores. If itis possible to
make a photocopy of this page, do so, Otherwise
record all details in pencil.

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter the
total in the sxrit box onthe Adventure Sheet.

Roll both dice. Add 12 to the number rolled and
enter this number in the STAMINA box.

Roll one die. Add 6 tw this number and enter this
total in the LUCK box.

For reasons that will be explained below, Skit,
STAMINA and LUCK scores change constantly dur-
ing an adventure. You must keep an accurate record
of these scores and for this reason you are advised
either to write small in the boxes or to keep an eraser
handy_ But never rub out your Initul scores.

Your SKILL score reflects your swordsmanship and

9
general fighting expertise; the higher the better.
Your STAMINA score reflects your general constitu-
tion, your will to survive, your determination and
overall fitness; the higher your stamina score, the
longer you will be able to survive. Your LUCK score
indicates how naturally lucky a person you are.
Luck — and magic — are facts of life in the fantasy
kingdom you are about to explore.

Battles

You will often come across paragraphs in the book
which instruct you to fight a creature of some sort.
An option to flee may be given, but if not—or if you
choose to attack the creature anyway — you must
resolve the battle as described below.

First record the creaiure’s SKILL and STAMINA
scores in the first vacant Encounter Box on your
Adventure Sheet. The scores for each creature are
given in the book each time you have an encounter.

The sequence of combat is then:

1. Roll both dice once for the creature. Add its
SKILL score. This total is the creature’s Attack
Strength.

2. Roll both dice once for yourself. Add the number
rolled to your current SKILL score. This total is
your Attack Strength.

3. Ifyour Attack Strength is higher than that of your
opponent, you have wounded it: proceed to step
4. If the creahare’s Attack Strength is higher than

10

yours, ithas wounded you: proceed to step 5. Uf
both Attack Strength totals are the same, you
have avoided each ather’s blows — start the next
Attack Round from step 1 above.

4. You have wounded the creature, sv subtract 2
points from its STAMINA score. You may use
your tuck here to do additional damage (sec
below}.

. Your opponent has wounded you, so subtract 2
points from your Owr STAMINA score. Again
you may use LuUcK at this stage (see below).

6. Make the appropriate adjustments to either the
creature's Or YOur OWNSTAMINA score {and your
LUCK score if you used LUCK—see below).

7. Begin the next Atlack Round by repeating
steps 1 to 6, This sequence continues unfil the
STAMINA score of either you or the creature you
are fighting has been reduced to zero (death).

“i

Fighting More Than One Creature

If you come across more than one creature in a
particular encounter, the instructions on that page
will tell you how to handle the battle. Usually you
will fight each one in turn.

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either in
battles or when you find yourself in a situation in
which you could be either Lucky or Unlucky (details
ate given on the relevant pages), you may call on

IL
your LUCK to make the outcome more favourable.
But beware! Using LUCK is a risky business and if
you are Unlucky, the results could be disastrous.

The procedure for using your LucKis as follows: rall
tsvo dice. Lf the number rolled is equal to orless than
your current LUCK score, you have been Lucky and
the result will go in your favour. If the number
rolled is higher than your current LUCK score, you
have been Unlucky and you will be penalized.

This procedure is known as Testing your Luck. Each
lime you Test your Luck, you must subtract 1 poimt
from your current LUCK score. Thus you will soon
realize that the more you rely on your Luck, the
more risky this will become.

Usiny Luck tn Battles

On certain pages of the book you will be told to Test
your Luck and will be told the consequences of your
being Lucky or Unlucky. However, in battles, you
always have the option of using your LUCK, either to
inflict a more serious wound on a creature you have
just wounded or to minimize the effects of a wound
the creature has just inflicted on you-

Ifyou have just wounded the creature, you may Test
your Tack as described above. If you are Lucky, you
have inflicted a severe wound and may subtract an
extra 2 points from the creature’s STAMINA score.
However, if you are Unlucky, the wound was a
mere graze and you must restore 1 point to the

12

creature’s STAMINA (i.e. instead of scoring the nor-
mal 2 points of damage, you have now scored only
1).

If the creature has just wounded you, you may Test
your Luck to try to minimize the wound. IE you are
Lucky, you have managed to avoid the full damage
of the blow. Restore 1 point of STAMINA (i.e, in-
stead of doing 2 points of damage it has done only
1). If you are Unlucky, you have taken a more
serious blow. Subtract 1 extra sTAMIN A point.

Remember that you must subtract 4 point from your
own LUCK score each time you Test your Luck.

Restoring Skill, Stamina and Luck

Skill

Your SKIL score will not change much during your
adventure. Occasionally a paragraph may give you
instructions t& increase or decrease your SKIL.
score. Your SKILL score can never exceed its Initial
value unless specifically instructed. Drinking the
Potion of Skill (see below) will restore your SKILL to
its Inctial level at any time.

a3
Stamina aud Provisions

Your STAMINA score will change a lot during your
adventure as you fight and undertake arduous
tasks. As you near your goal, your sTAMINA level
may become dangerously low and battles may be
particularly risky, so be carefull

Your backpack contains enough Provisions for ten
meals. You may rest and eat at any time except
when engaged in a battle. Eating a meal restores 4
STAMINA points, When you cata meal, add 4 paints
to your STAMINA score and deduct 1 point from
your Provisions, A separate Provisions Remaining
box is provided an the Adventure Sheet for recording
details of Provisions. Remember that you have a
long way to go, so use your Provisions wisely!
Remember also that your STAMINA scoTe may
never exceed its Initial value unless speciiically in-
structed on a page. Drinking the Potion of Strength
(see below) will restore your STAMINA to its Lnifial
level at any time.

Luck

Additions to your LUCk score are awarded during
the adventure when you have been particularly
lucky. Details are given in the appropnate para:
staphs of the book. Remember that, as with SKILL
and STAMINA, your LUCK score may never exceed
its Jnifial value, unless specifically instructed in a
paragraph. Drinking the Potion of Fortune (see
below) sill restore your LUCK to its Imitial level at

1g

any ime, and will increase your Initial LucK by 4
point.

Equipment and Potions

You will start your adventure with a bare minimum
of equipment, but you may find or buy oiher items
during your travels. You are armed with a sword
and are dressed in leather armour. You have a
backpack to hold Provisions and any treasures you
May Come across.

In addition, you may take a bottle of magical potion
which will aid you on your quest. You may choose
to take one bottle from the following:

Potion of Skill —restores SKILL points

Potion of Strength — restores STAMINA points
Potion of Fortune — restores LUCK points and
increases Initial LucK by 1

These potions may be taken at any time during your
adventure (except when engaged in a battle).
Taking a measure of potion will restore SKILL,
STAMINA OF LUCK scores to their Inifial level
(and the Potion of Fortune will add 1 point to
your Initial LUCK score before Luck is restored).

45
Each bottle of potion contains one measure, ie. the
characteristic may be restored only once during an
adventure. Make a note on your Adventure Sheet
when you have consumed the potion.

Remember also that you may choose only one of the
three potions to take on your trip, so choose wisely?

Poison

Unfortunately, you will find that poison is spread-
ing through your body, At various times, especally
after you have exerted yourself, you will be asked to
mark off Poison units on the Adventure Sheet. If this
occurs, you must shade in one area of the outline
figure provided on the Adventure Sheet. The poison
will spread as you progress through the adventure,
so you mustalways shade in an area next to one that
has already been infected- If you find thal the figure
is completely covered by the poison (all the areas in
the outline are shaded in), then your adventure ts
over. The poison has completed its fell task

Medallions and Mazes

There are six reyions in Kazan and each region
contains a Medallion. (The clans that rule the re-
gions are listed on the Adventure Sheet.) Tradition-
ally, the Medallions are kept in huge mazes full
of untold dangers. If you succeed m obtaining a
Medallion, make a note of the fact in the box pro-
vided. The Medallions possess great power; each

16

one enables the holder to walk away from three lost
combats: even if you lose a fight, you may restore
your STAMINA to 4 and act as though you have
defeated your opponent. If you choose to use this
power, however, you mustatthe same time reduce
your SKILL by 1 point, your Luck by 1 point and
mark off 3 Poison units on the Adiwmnture Sheet.

Gold

You will discover that Kazan is a yery mercenary
land. The currency is Gold Coin. You will possess 6
gold coins when you begin your adventure. One of
these will be sewn into your boot; this is your lucky
piece, and you must not use it unless specifically
instructed. You will also carry a small purse of
iron coins of very little value. Mark any additions
or deductions carefully in the Gold box on the
Adventure Sheet.

a7
ADVENTURE SHEET

SKELL STAN INA | LUCK
WITAT ' Ae > eral
SKiiin~ tf =e ASI TS ‘ane | crf

pees
|

exo

=

ENCOUNTER BOXES

YIGEIGK
uk?
Oxecan
| BENCH
hs Es) KORKUT
} | j
i ‘ i
RS KA KAzIIK
rt oy mas . | a.

PROVISIONS
+s

ARIITES

CLUGS. sm 15, QBIECTS FOUND & NOTES
iced ca our

~ £ syeits LS REE

MELOY oe"

xi- % =xii- + suit F | SKTLLSE
sia Be || AMINA TIMINASY SCAMINA~®
x + = ew
7 “ - ' ’
= z |) ; Z
= € Zz +
S
—_—— :
“ani- ¢€ | satel SxKLe? sen £
STAMINA STAMINA f STAMINA STAMINA
x i"; -<
> - - a
Zz % \
o z $
)
i -
Lee SKILL- | | sete SKM
;
TANS STALINAS | | STAMINA= STALIN A-
oe |
5= |
=
6
=| | |
7A SAILL SKiZi™ ny 4) A
MNS SAHiRA- STAIN AS STAMIbA-

BACKGROUND

You open your eyes. Above you stands a creature
swathed in a dark cloak. He is holding a long dagger
which he is about to plunge into your body. You try
to move but cannot; you are transfixed by his star-
ing, unblinking assassin’s eyes. The blade gleamsm
the moonlight as it flashes down towards your
throat. .

‘Begone, creature of the night!’ a familiar voice cries.
‘Homrath Deis Blichneth Vaquat The dagger falls
with no power and grazes your shoulder. Just be-
fore you swoon at the fiery torment, you catch 2
glimpse of the departing figure of the would-be
assassin, then you turn your head and see Gally’s
rentle eyes, before you black out.

When you awake, the pain m your shoulderis a dull
throb. Gally is bathing the wound and chanting In 2
strange tongue, Fe sees that you are watching him,
and says: ‘Welcome back. | feared the dagger helda
oreater evil, beyond even my powers. But you are
quickly recovered. Well met, brave Kazanid, one of
Segrek’s Select.’

‘But how do yau. . .?" you begin to ask.

"This innis dangerous now,’ he says. ‘I will take you
to a safer place and then all will be explained.’

20

The drinking companion you knew as Gally leads
you into the Keep at Gorak, up a spiral staircase and
into a large roam full of dusty books, jars and
botties, small furry creatures and birds. Suddenly
you realize that ‘Gally’ is none other than Astragal
the Wizard. He explains that there is little Gime.
Only recently has he learnt that Segrek, ruler of
Kazan, died the previous year and that the vizier,
Chingiz, suppressed the news and sent out the
Mamlik Assassins to kill all the Select before they
could undertake their journey to the Throne at
Sharrabbas. He tells you to sit and rest, for there is
mutch to be done. As he leaves the room, you hear
him ordering the guards to let no one in. You sit
back, rubbing your shoulder, and watch the birds
flutter in and oul of the window. By your side, a
small book lies open; you pick it up, to read a very
familiar story-

Kazan — Very little is known of this strange, wild
land. It is situated to the west of Gorak (see
above} and south of the Swordflpw, in the ex-
treme south-west corer of Khul. ‘The capital city
is Sharrabbas, where sits the Throne of Kazan.
The remainder of the land is divided into six tnbal
regions, each fiercely independent and warlike,
The Kazanids are renowned for their bravery and

21
their acceptance of any creature or being that can
stand up to their hard and, some would say,
savage tests. There have always been rumours of
the presence of gold in the Greater khans, the
Tange of mountains to the south of Sharrabbas,
but no prospector has ever returned with firm
evidence. Kazan has a very strange ntual of suc
cession to the throne. But the system has meant
that every ruler of Kazan has been very brave,
strong and quick-wilted. Those parents who
choose to nominate their children as Heirs to
Ushun Koja (or the Select) bring their babies to
Sharrabbas, where they have to undergo a series
of tests. The parents of those children who pass
the tests are given money to bring up the infantin
the approved manner. At the age of nine the child
is exiled from Kazan and must roam the lands of
Khul, making his or her own way and surviving
the rigours of loneliness and fear. When a ruler
dies, the Select are summoned by messengers
who travel the countryside, leaving secret sym-
bols in traditional Incations. They must make
their way to Kazan, enter the great Mazes and
obtain as many of the Clan Medallions as poss-
ible. They then have to reach Sharrabbas, where
they must be the first to sit upon the Throne. The
Kazanids are a very secretive people and the
mystery of what happens in Sharrabbas has
never been revealed.

Suddenly your reading is interrupted by Astragal
rushing back into the room, clutching the evil dag-

22

get of the Mamlik Assassin. ‘This dagger was forged
by Chingiz with a very strong Death Spell. There is
no way to recovery but to hand it back to ils maker,
Chingiz. You must hurry!’ You secure the dayger in
the lining of your baots.

So begins your journey to the Throne of Kazan. You
must make your way through the wild lands, take
the test of the Clans, enter the Mazes and carry as
many of their Medallions as you can to Sharrabbas.
Once there, you must find the Great Throne. All the
while you will be sought out by the Mamlik Assas-
sins who serve the evil Vizier Chingiz. Caution
must be your watchword! You may encounter Nec-
romancers, undead beings of no physical substance
but possessing great powers of evil magic. Avoid
them if you can.

Unfortunately, as Astragal explained, you have
been scratched by a Death Spell Dagger: your body
has been infected by the evil of Chingiz. The poison
will spread slowly through your body, but it will
have no real effect until it has travelled through
every part — and then death will be sudden and
violent.

Now, turn to 2.

23
1

Astragal leads you to the boundary of the lands of
Gorak, shakes you by the hand and wishes you
2ood luck. By order of the Mage Council he cannot
enter Kazan — but he hints that he will make
attempts to contact you from time to ime. He waves
farewell as you begin the climb up into the moun-
tains that divide the two lands. Your shoulderslarts
to ache and you know that the poison is beginning
to work its way through your body (mark off 2
Poison units on the Adventure Sheet).

You climb for many hours, passing from green
fields to the cold land up above the snowline. The
snow underfoot gets thicker and the going gets
harder. You are exhausted but know that you can-
not stop (deduct 1 point from your STAMINA).
Eventually you come to the mountain pass known
as Drago’s Gate; an ancient stone obelisk marks the
Kazanid frontier. On the rock a body sprawls, a
dageer planted in its chest. You notice an open
backpack lying on the snow by the obelisk. Do you
wish to take any of the objects that you see scattered
around by the backpack (tum to 233), or do you
want to inspect the body first (turn to &g)?

2-3

2

The Eagle holds an iron rod in its talons and Geroni-
cus invites you to grasp it. The huge bird flaps its
wings and lifts you effortlessly. lt flies fastand high.
Suddenly, you see three lange Grypfalcons bearing
down on you. The Eagle cannot manoeuvre because
of your weight. Jt tries to dimb up into the moun-
tains but the Grypfalcons follow, harassing it. The
bird eventually swoops down clase to the ground
and drops you. Tes! your Luck. If you are Unlucky,
you land badly: deduct 4 points from your
STAMINA. H you are Lucky, you land in a soft
patch of snow. Turn to 275.

3

You find yourself in a chamber that is pitch-black.
Something slithers underfoot and wraps itself
around your ankle, Before you, you see two red
eyes and you hear the sound of a sword being
drawn from its scabbard. If you have the Ability of
Darkfight, fight as normal; if not, then deduct 2
points from your sKx111 for this combat only.

DARK MONSTER

if you win (mark off 1 Poison unit on the Adventure
Sheet), return to 160, throw the magic die and mark
your new position.

Ski 6 STAMINA 8

4-5

The track you are following becomes a well-
constructed, cobbled road. At frequent intervals
along the side of the road, you see small obelisks.
An occasional cart passes by. You have just stopped
to take a stone out of your boot when a man on
horseback, swathed in a large brown cloak, trots
past, leading a spare horse; he stops and offers you a
ride into Sharrabbas at the price of 2 gold coins.
While you are considering his offer, you notice the
name ‘Wolfsbane’ etched on his saddle. Do you
accept the offer (turn to 352) or refuse and walk on
(turn to 23)? If you do not have enough gold to pay
him the amount he demands, you must refuse.

5
Mandrake is very difficult to follow; he seems to
melt into the crowd. He leads you through small,
winding lanes, made dark by tall buildings. Even-
tually you lose him at the meeting of the three lanes.
Which do you approach:

Street of the Forty Guilds?
Street of the Stonemasons?
Street of the Swordsmiths?

Turn to 98
Turn 10 164
Turn to 328
6
You chase after the Ore and catch up with him when
he has the Dwarf trapped ina blind alley. his sword
raised to cleave the unfortunate’s head in two. You
draw your own sword.

EXECUTIONER ORC

If you win (add 1 point to your Luck), the Dwarf
thanks you and takes you under his wing. He sels
off at a fast pace through the twisting streets until
you reach the Dwarf quarter of the city, where he
enters a house and disguises himself by exchanging
his green cloak for a red one. He explains that his
master, one of Segrek’s Select, was killed by the
Mamliks when they entered the city, He suddenly
stops and stares al you, as though he can sense
something about you. “You are in great danger,” he
then says urgently, ‘you must contact Mandrake
Wolfsbane.’ He tells you to go to the sign of the
Cross Keys in the Street of the Forty Guilds. You
cannot travel through the main streets, he tells you,
but you should be safe if you follow one of these two
routes: via the perimeter walls (tum to 22g}, or
through the thieves’ quarter (turn to 306). Which
way do you choose?

SKILLF STAMINA6

7

You stumble down the path for many hours. Then
you find yourself overtaking a figure ahead of you.
This person is hardly moving —just shuffling along —
but is well wrapped up against the weather. Just as
you are approaching the figure it topples over. Do
you rush over te help (turn to 267) or would you
prefer to pass by in safety and carry on down the
valley (turn to 82)?

8
You charge into the bushes and encounter two more
lrolls who are waiting with swords drawn. Fight
each in turn.

SKILL STAMINA
First TROLL 8 gy
Second TROLL 9 9

if you survive (mark off 2 Poison units on the
Adventure Skeet}, you climb into one of the tall trees,
where you hide as best you can. Tum to 391-

ae
s
. a.
g-10

You hand over some iron coins and his eyes light
up. He unshoulders the instrument and tums the
handle, and a sweetly melodious tune flows out. It
begins to captivate you, until it is ail that you can
hear. The hurdy-gurdy man laughs; you begin to
feel numb and realize that the tune is Spellbinding.
You struggle against the spell as the would-be
Assassin pulls out a dagger and raises it, aiming for
your chest. Have you the strength to break the spell
before the dagger strikes? Throw 2 dice for the
power of the spell, then compare this with your
STAMINA, If your STAMINA is equal to or greater
than the power of the spell, you break free (turn to
108). If not, then the Assassin plunges the dagger
into you; its poison works very quickly and you die
in great agony.

10

The Treffilli vibrates. You take hwo sprigs and whis-
per the Spell: ‘By Ash and Bird and Crust.’ At once
you disappear. Remove the sprigs from your Adien-
ture Sheet and deduct 4 points from your STAMINA.
The Necromancer cannot detect you as you take to
the rough country, Turn to 88.

ti

ii

You trot your mount towards the sound on the left.
The noises you can hear are indistinct and come
from behind a bushy ridge. Suddenly your horse
rears up and throws you. Test your Luck. If you are
Unlucky, you fall badly: deduct 3 points from your
STAMINA. If you are Lucky, you land on soft turf,
unscathed. Whatever the outcome, your horse gal-
lops off into the dark. You stand up and look around
you but can see nothing. You are aware of some-
thing moving very close to you. You hear the sound
of a sword being unsheathed and then footsteps
approaching you. Do you decide to stand and fight
in utter darkness (turn to 317) or do you prefer to
run away (turn to 214)?

Tz

i2

You push open the door, Inside, there is a room full
of goods for sale. Two Trolls are arguing with the
Kazanid owner. ‘There’s nothing wrong with these
skins,’ scowls one of the Trolls. “That's as may be,
but there’s no market nowadays for wart-covered
Goblin skins. Anyhow, I won't ask you how you
came by them,’ One of the two Trolls thumps the
counter and mutters. Then they go over to a comer,
sit down and start drinking from a bottle inscribed
with a scimitar. There are other traders in the room
whose eyes never leave you as you place the gemon
the counter. Gimerak weighs the stone and offers
you 10 gald coins for it. Lfyou accept, add the gold to
your Adventure Sheet and remove the gem. As soon
as you set foot outside the trading post you are
attacked by three Kazanid Ruffians. You must fight
each in turn.

SKILL STAMINA
First RUFFIAN 5 8
Second RUFFIAN 6 7
Third RUFFIAN 6 6

If you survive (mark off 2 Poison units on the
Adventure Sheet), the fight has attracted a cowd
from inside, but no one lifts a finger to help you.
You stride off. Turn to 391-

a3

43

The driver is an old man, but he looks very strong.
He carries a fine blade close to hand, and he looks as
if he knows how to use it. When you ask him for a
ride, at first he is silent; he looks you up and down
and then agrees to take you for the price of your
company. He warms you that you will be crossing
wild bandit lands — and you may even meet some
Kalamites; however, he does not explain who these
creatures are. When the cart passes through one of
the town gates, you are stopped by a one-legged
hurdy-gurdy man who also asks for a ride. The
driver, Drukkah, looks steadfastly at the beggarand
shakes his head. “Don’t like the look or the smell of
thatone—he’s no more a hurdy-gurdy man than |'m
the Vizier of Kazan.’ Turn to 286.
14

14
You hear a sudden creak and then a crash as the

bench collapses and you are fipped into an under-
cround stream. You stand up in the waist-deep
water and your hand, stretched out in front of you,
finds a dead body floating past. Just then a Mamlik
appears from behind a small waterfall, dagger in
hand. You grab his wrist and drag him down.

MAMLIK SKILL 8 STAMINA 10

lf you survive (mark off 1 Poison unit on the Adven-
ture Sheet), you cannot get out of the water and have
to swim along with the stream. You emerge in the
deep water of the harbour just as a ship is bearing
down on you. You have no option but to grab a
loose rope. You climb up and collapse on the deck

deduct 2 points from your stamina). When you
recover, you find the captain standing over you; he
tells you that you are on your way to Kazilik. The
price of passage on his vessel is 25 gold coins. If you
have this much, deductit from your Adventure Sheet;
otherwise, you will have to work your passage.
Deduct all the gold coins you do have left, and then
deduct 2 points from your STAMINA for every 5 gould
coins you have to make up to the total of 25. Turn to

15-16

45

You feel sure that a shart rest will do you a lot of
good, so you sit down in the snow. The gentle figure
you saw in front of you begins to laugh and its face
transforms into one of extreme evil. It screams at
you, ‘Segrek's Select, you will die here in the snow
You cannot rise, and the effort to do so makes you
fee] weaker, while the poison throbs in your shoul-
der (deduct 2 points from your sta MINA and mark
off 2 Poison units on the Adventure Sheet).

Just then, you seem to see the face of Astragal the
wizard; it spurs you on to combat the evil- Throw 2
dice for the Evil Power of the storm and compare the
total with yoursTamiN4. If yourSTAMINA ts equal
to or greater than the power of the storm, then
gradually you manage ta get up and walk on_ Turn
to 169. If it is less than the Evil Power of the storm,
then you cannot resist, You are covered by the snow
and will soon die.

16

The first Dragon falls into the sea with a steamy
splash. However, fire has broken out amidships,
due to the attack of the second Dragon. Flames and
sparks leap up and suddenly there is a great explo-
sion. the ship shudders and begins to sink fast.
Leaping overboard, you grab some dnftwood and
fluat gently to the shore. Turn to 348.

17-18

17
You are in a well-lit chamber. Torches blaze on the
walls and in the middle of the room is a forge with
several small Medallion moulds. Sparks shoot out
and some hit you. Deduct 1 point from your
STAMINA. Return to 160 and throw the magic die
for your next position.

38

You carry on along the sloping path. The mountain
pass is very bleak and the chill wind cuts through
you. Ahead you observe a perfect spat for an
ambush. Pulling out your sword and tightening the
straps of your armour, you steal from boulder to
boulder. Suddenly an arrow strikes you in the chest,
glances off the leather and plants itself in the
ground. As its force sends you tumbling over, you
hear a scream heralding the altack of two Bandits.
They leap out, wearing face-masks and clutching
scimitars. Fight each in turn.

SKILL STAMINA
First BANDIT vi 8
Second BANDIT 6 6

f you win (mark off 2 Poison units on the Adventure
Sheet), you are just recovering your breath when a
large band of rogues emerges from among the
rocks. Do you decide to nun {turn to 326) or do you
choose to surrender (turn to 127}?
19-20

19
You land badly on your sword-arm- Deduct 4 point
from your SKILL. Furthermore, you lose conscous-
ness and have a nightmare about Black Bulls, Dag-
pers of Darkness and Mamlik Assassins. Deduct 1
point from your STAMINA and mark off 1 Poison
unit. furn to 176.

‘The gates of the Bogomil Maze open. Inside, youare
canfronted by two huge stone statues of rearing
horses. You see the image of a woman with long
white hair. She speaks in formal tones. “You have
been granted the honour of entering the Maze. Seek
the Medallion and prove your worth as one of
Serrek’s Select. There is one true path through the
maze and many dangers.’ To the blast of trumpets,
you stride forward. You find yourself in a series of
torchlit tunnels. You can choose to go west (turn to
165), east (turn to 281), or north (turn to 236). Which
way do you deride to go?

21

21

You creep along past the guardian Orc, up a hillside
and into some broken scrubland. When at last you
feel that you are safe, you stop to check behind you.
Dismayed, you see three shapes, each holding a
blazing torch. From time to time one of them bends
down as though to sniff the ground, These are the
legendary Sniffer Orcs which, if rumour is to be
believed, can follow any track or trail, across racks,
throush water, over any terrain. At that moment
you look up into the dawn’s light and see a large
flying creature that is part human, part eagle. ., a
Boulyanthrop. If you possess the Grey Talon af
Sakar, torn to 345. Otherwise, you will have to turn
and face your pursuers, for they will never relent
(turn to 171).

22

22

When you agree to her request, she rubs her hands
with glee and leads you up a smail hill toa blasted
oak. She explains that some Fiends have robbed her
and have concealed her precious treasure-chest in
the depths of the hollow tree. ‘Can you getit forme,
my lovely?’ she begs. You climb the oak and find at
the top a large dark hole; climbing in, you drop
down and find yourself in a large cavern encircled
by tree-roots, In the gloom you can make outa metal
chest, surrounded by whitened bones and odd bits
of armour. Suddenly two Hellhounds appear from
out of the dark, barking, howling and frothing at the
mouth, You must fight each Hellhound in tum-

SKILL STAMINA
First IELLHOUND 7 6
Second HELLHOUND 7 6

If you survive (mark off 2 Poison units on the
Adventure Sheet), you manage to drag the chest up
out of the tree, and you climb down with it. Before
the old woman can reach it, you force open the hid —
it is full of gold coins. Do you help yourself (furn to
105) or let the old hag get her hands on the chestand
pay you your due (turn to 241)?

23

23

You walk on for a while. Eventually, you find
yourself catching up with a cart thatis creaking and
rumbling over the cobbled road in front of you. The
land is too flat for you to get off the road and still
avoid suspicion. Up ahead in the distance, you can
see two Trolls wearing the panther livery of Chingiz
and collecting some sort of toll. They stop the cart in
front of you and charge the driver an exorbitant 4
gold coins before allowing him to pass. You guess
that the Trolls are pocketing most of the money for
themselves. There is no way of circling around the
Trollish toll-gatherers without being noticed, so you
try to pass. “Not so fast, friend, we've been told to
pick up any lone strangers passing through . . .
unless you make it worth our while.’ If you do not
wish to encourage their venality, tun to 274- It’s up
to you how much to give them. If you decide to olfer
them a bribe, first deduct the amount you think will
be adequate from your Accenture Sheet, then throw 2
dice for the amount they would regard as sufficient.
if the amount you have chosen is equal to or preater
than the amount they demand, turn to 106, IF it is
less, turn to 274-
24-25

You put on the smile of a simpleton and stand there
while the Orcs try to spit a pip on to your hat.
Suddenly they both leap to attention; you tum
round, to see a black-cloaked figure holding a staff
on which is carved a panther. She doesn’t speak to
the Orcs but they scuttle off. She then sieps close to
you and your gaze is held by the bright-red eyes ofa
Necromancer. She raises her staff. Do you have the
ability ta fight a Necromancer? If you do, you pull
out your sword (turn to 99); if not, then you are
Spellbound and cannot move (turn to 334)-

25
You encounter a figure gazing at one of the walls.
She looks strong and confident, and she smiles as
she speaks to you. ‘So you are one of the Select also.
You know that by ancient lore we must fight; only
one may claim the Medallion of Uruz.’ She pulls out
a scimitar, salutes you and attacks.

BOLLEMA

ff you win, two mysterious shrouded figures
emerge from the walls and take the body away. You
look at the wall and see upon il an inscription of
three Medallions. You pass through the next door,
syhich seals shut behind you. Turn to 207.

LXILL G STAMINA 10

26-27

26
You are in an eating-house patronized by several
Dwarfs, Elves and Kazanids, who look at you suspi-
ciously. You walk out into the street again. Turn to

98.

37

Cautiously you step out on to the perilous bridge.
throw 2 dice for the strength of the bridge and then
throw 2 dice for your weight. If your weight is
greater than the strength of the bridge, it collapses
when you are in the middle, and you fall to your
death in the chasm- If your weight is equal to or less
than the strength of the bridge, you cross safely,
Turn to 340.
28-29

28

You are taken to the Maze entrance. As you stand in
front of it Aggellatha proclaims formally, ‘Seek the
Medallion of the ancient and noble tribes of Uruz.
The dangers are many but the True Path exists for
the heart not tainted by evil.’ You are looking at the
entrance and the Minotaurs guarding it, when sud-
denly a Gryphawk lands at one side of the dour,
cocksits head and gazes levelly at you. Ifyou possess
the Grey Talon of Sakar, whisper its Spell, note the
numbers in sequence and turn to that paragraph;
otherwise, turn to 366.

29
A Giant Spider drops down from the recesses of the
roof. You push Saxifragus behind you and pull out
your sword. You chop atthe beast's hairy legs while
the wizard stands in the background, giving you
helpful advice.

GIANT SPIDER SKILL 7 STAMINA 10

Ifyou survive, younow have time to cut laboriously

through the web. Mark off 1 Poison unit on the
Adventure Sheet. Tur to 76.

30-31

30

You are dubious about the chances of finding a good
hiding-place in the snow — especially when the
riders could easily pick up your tracks. You stand
your ground as they approach. They notice you and
one of them releases a large Gryphawk. If comes
fluttering towards you but, when you pull out your
sword, it veers away, back to ifs owner. The nders
approach close to you and draw up. Turn to 259.

31

As if from nowhere, a rider appears in the arce and
must of the Kazanids bow their heads in deference,
He locks at you very carefully, examining your
Gorak armour closely. He announces that his name
is Zaranj and that he is the leader of this group. He
dismounts and takes you to one side. Next, he asks
you if you are one of Segrek's Select and you deade
that you have to trust him. ‘Tell no one else here,’ he
replies. ‘Chingiz has bought many souls with his
stolen gold. In Korkut, traditions bind me to put you
tothe test so that you may enter the Maze to seek the
Medallion — but there are many in this land who do
not wish to see a True Monarch on the throne-
Come.’ He leads you to where a horse stands
tethered. Turn to 287.

32-33

32

You just manage to keep your head above water
without having to swim. The weight of your pack,
cloak and sword stops you from moving quickly. As
you set out for the oppasite bank, you feel some-
thing tug at your ankle. Then it encircles your boot
and stops you moving. You chop down into the
water with your sword, and blood rises to the
surface and your foot is released. Then something
grabs you again and stings you (deduct 1 point from
your STAMINA). You plunge your sword into the
water once more. Test your Luck. IE you are Unlucky,
then something pulls you under and you drown,
thus ending vour quest. If you are Lucky, you sever
the vital tentacle and, freed, stumble across to the
other bank. Turn to 294.

33
You run across the ground with your boots in your

hand (deduct 2 points from your STAMINA). Just
then, a branch from the old gnarled oak reaches out
towards you. You look up, to see the heads and
bodies of warriors attached to the tree. Keeping well
away from the oak, you put your boots back on.
Add 1 point to your Luck. You realize that you are |
nowy hopelessly lost but you are sure you can hear
impish laughter in the dark gloom. You look around
and decide you have to make a choice between twa
possible routes. Do you head left (turn to 311) or do
you choose to try the right-hand path (turn to 257)?
34-35

You emerge from the cave. The Orcs’ commander
has disappeared. You feel slightly sick and realize
that the poison of the Mamlik Death Spell Dagger
spreads quickly if you exert yourself (mark off 2
Poison units on the Adventure Sheet). You retrace
your way to the track and find that the horses have
all bolted. You continue in what you hope is the
right direction.

After several hours the snow eases and you can
discern a dark figure outlined against the gleaming
white. Do you approach this figure (turn to 387) or
does discretion prompt you to pass it carefully by
(turn to 18)?

You are in a room with a large curved snake in the
middle, Suddenly a stairway appears and you feel
compelled to climb it. Turn to 157 and mark your
new position on the chart.

36

You follow the west corridor. The screams get
louder, but you can see nothing. Suddenly a bone
drops on to your shoulder! You look up and see a
skeleton, spreadeagied on the roof, with long metal
stakes impaling it there. You shudder as you see a
metal spike shoot out of the ground ahead of you
and slam inte the roof. Throw t die for your posi-
ton, then throw 1 die again for the place where
another stake shoots out. If the Gvo die-rolls match,
youare speared to the ceiling and killed. Repeat this
procedure vice more. If you survive, you rush
through another door which shuts behind you,
Turn to-153-

37
The path climbs and climbs untl you begin to
encounter patches of ice and snow. You feel very
tired (deduct 1 point fom your sTaMINa and mark
off 2 Poison units on the Adventure Sheet). Just then
you hear what can only be the sound of a Dwarf
singing. It is coming fram a newly worked tunnel
that leads into the mountainside. Do you wish to
enter the finnel and investigate (hur t 112) or
would you rather press on up the path (turn lo 245)?
38-39

38

You creep out carefully, shutting the doors behind
you. Suddenly a dagger is plunged into your neck
and a Mamlik laughs as you stagger away- ‘knew!
could smell you close by,” he murmurs. The poison
has got into all of your body. Mark off all remaining
Poison units on the Adveriure Skeet. Your quest is
over,

3

instinctively, you flatten yourself against the wall
The norse gallops past — but large wooden stakes
suddenly spring out of the wall behind you. Tesi
your Luck, Tf you are Unlucky, two spikes have
pierced your armour (deduct 4 points from your
STAMINA and mark off 2 Poison units). If you are
Lucky, the spikes miss. If you survive, you go
through another door, Turn to 349.

40-41

40
The chamber is very gloomy. You walk about, step-
Ping into soft, squishy muck. Looking up, you see
honzontal ridges carved into the scummy walls.
You think you may be able to clamber up fram ridge
toridge. If you da not want to do this, then return to
the other chamber {turn to 265),

Throw 2 dice for the distance you will have to leap to
the top. Compare this with your STAMINA score. lf
yout STAMINA is equal to or greater than the dis-
tance, then you have madeit. If not, you fall: deduct
3 point from yourSTA MINA and try again. [Fyou try
and fail three times, return to the other chamber
(farm fo 265).

When you reach the top, you find a tunnel running
north and south. Which way do you choose to go:
north (turn to 390) or south (turn to 360)?

41

The mare you haye chosen is a placid animal that
will give you a good restful ride. The Yigeniks are
supreme horsemen; they always ride at great speed,
leaping over or across anything that might other-
wise divert them. The mare is sure-footed and
needs no real effort to cuntrol, so by the time the
Yigeniks stop you are quite rested, Add 2 paints to
yoursTAMina. [urn to 372-
42-43

42

The Yigenik knights clap you on the back and make
it clear that you will benefit if you do well at the
tournament. The jousting field is packed with
people, you see as you look around while donning
the unlucky knight’s armour and mountng his
horse. You are handed 2 lance and then are made to
wait for several hours. Eventually your turn comes,
however, and you take your place on the field,

You charge at your opponent, Throw 1 die for your
opponent then « die for yourself. lf your throw is the
yteater, you hare unhorsed your opponent; you
win 2 prize purse of § gold coins. If youropponent's
throw is the greater, vou are knocked from your
horse (deduct 4 points from your STAMINA and 1
pomé from your skit), and you may not enter
another contest. If you have been successtiul, you
may choose to joust with another opponent {the
prize in every case is a purse of 5 gold coins). You
may continue until you are defeated or choose to
slop. Turn to 4.

43

You clutch the lalon in your fingers as you are
thrown over the wall of the tower, desperately
willing some sort of help. Almost immediately, a
large bird appears and sinks its huge talons into
your shoulder armour. Not strong enough to hald
you up, nevertheless i slows your rapid descent
and carries you close enough to the tower wall for
you to be able to grasp an overhanging stone block.
lurn to 382.
44

44 - .

You stumble deeper into the cave, which begins to
slope upwards; you can feel a cool breeze and see a
brightness through the gloom. You look up, to see 4
hole in the roof of the cave, covered with a thin
broken layer of snow. You disturb the snow with
your sword and find that a bush is covering the
hole. Gradually you heave yourself up and force
your way out.

Suddenly a scream assails your ears and a Mamhk
Assassin leaps at you wielding a dagger. Tes? your
Luck, If you are Unlucky, the dagger grazes your lex
(deduct 2 points from yourstAMINA and mark off 2
Poison units on the Adventure Sheet. Henceforth
whenever you are edie om mark ee st Se of

risun, You must dauble the number Of Polson
ne. sustained.) If you are Lucky, the Mamiik
misses and his blade snaps. He rushes away and
then you hear his snorting steed galloping off. You
walk in the direction that you believe will take you
dawn to the plain, Turn to 18-

45

The voice echoes m your mind: “You are in the
Chamber of Ancient Magical Spells. Here is where
the power of the kings and queens of Kazan is
determined.’ You see a table with a row of three
bottles and another row of three jars on it. The
ghostly voice speaks again. ‘True monarchs of
Kazan are able to face the dangers of Gnassis. You
must now choose the contents of one bottle and one
jar; mix the materials fom the Svo and drink the
resultant brew. Beware, for three of the mixtures are
deadly. You must perform this feat twice. Choose
now."

Mist from
Volcano 1000-Fathom the Mithrir
Dust Seawater Forest

Eve of
Newt 63 93 142
Viper’s
Tongue 166 284 330
Ground
Dragon’‘s
Claw 356 376 384

Make your choice and ¢o to the paragraph indicated
‘> discover the result of dabbling in alchemy.
46-47

46
You rush after the Orc. The stone stairs wind up
towards a tower. Suddenly three Goblins appear on
the stairs; they are all heavily armed and attack you
immediately. The stairs are narmow, So you will have
to fight each m tun.

SKILL STAMINA
First GOBLIN 5 5
Second GOBLIN 5 5
Third GOBLIN 6 6

Ifyou survive, you feel the poison throbbing in your
body (mark off 2 Poison units on the Adventure
Sheet). You rush up the stairs and are faced by two
wooden doors. Which do you enter, the one on the
left (turn to 212) or the one on the right (tum ta 187)?

You summon a great storm of thunder and forked
lightning which crashes through the window and
makes the Dungeon Beasts scuttle off into the dis-
tance. You pass unhindered into a nchly furnished
part of the Fortress; you must be neanng the inner
sanctum, The passage ends in two doors, one
marked with the sign of Segrek (turn to 158) and the
other with the sign of a panther (turn to 325)- Which
do you choose to enter?

‘T, Omorphina, announce the Run of the Arrow!’ A
group of huntresses, all dressed in black leather,
quickly form a line. Your bonds are removed as one
of them shoots an arrow into the forest. They mo-
hon for you to start rurining and you set off, slowly
at first, then picking up speed. You see the arrow
stuck into a tree trunk, and when you pass it you
hear a whoop as the huntresses sct off in pursuil of
vou. Throw 3 dice and add up their total, If this is
ereater than your current sraMiwa, then the hun-
tresses have causht you. You are immediately be-
headed. Your questis over-

if your STAMINA is equal to or greater than the

throw, then you outdistance the huntresses. Turn
tu 368_
49-50

4$
Her name, she tells you, is Adana-Broussah, a

member of the nomadic clan of mercenaries known
as Beshbalik’s Marauders; they are also known in
southern Khul as the Scavengers of Slaughter. Her
voice lowers and becomes conspiratorial: ‘Greetings
from Astragal. I am a link in one of his chains of
information. | am bidden to look out for you and to
pass on this message: all the Medallions are taken.
Now, by fair means or foul, you must enter the
Fortress at Sharrabbas and get to the throne. If you
havea Medallion, the task will be easier, for Chingiz
and his Necromancers have yet to break into the
Heart of the Throne.’ Now you must decide: do you
wish to accompany Adana-Broussah to Beshbalik's
camp (turn to 200) or do you prefer a lonely path
(turn to 216)?

50

You dash into the tunnel leading to the south as the
herd of bulls crashes on eastwards. At the end of
this southerly passage is a metal door but on this
side of it you can see a bubbling fountain made of
stone. Carved on itis a bull drinking from the water,
with an arrow sticking out of its back. Do you drink
some of the water (turn to 238) or make straight for
the door and go through it (turn to 292)?

51-52

51

You lower yourself into the boat. The painter untes
itself and the craft floats across to the other side of
the nver. Turn to 294,

52
You look around the trading-post. Tacked up on the
walls are signs proclaiming that ‘We buy anything’.
You will probably need gold in a city like Sharrab-
bas. Do you have anything to trade? You read one of
the signs:

Yellow Gem 2 gold coins
Red Gem 5 gold coins
Green Gem 10 gald coins
Blue Gem 15 goldcoins
Any ring 5 gold coins

if you decide to do any deals at these prices, mark
the changes on your Advenfure Sheet. You come out
of the trading-post and bump into a small he-
drageled boy. He offers his services asa guide for 2
gold coins. Do you accept (turn to 182)? If you refuse
his offer (or if you have no gold), then turn to 318.
53-34

53
You reckon that the road is the easiest and quickest

way to travel. You svalk along for a long Sme und
you are overtaken by a horse and cart being driven
by a Dwarf. You stop him and ask him fora nde. He
agrees and doesn't charge you anything. It’s good to
ride for a change {add 2 points to your STAMINA).
You are beginning to doze when, suddenly, the cart
stops. ‘Now, what's this?’ the Dwarf grumbles.
Ahead, there is a road-block. ‘Chingiz’s creatures -
he thinks he owns this land.’ You leap off the cart.
Do you run to the left-hand side of the road and hide
(Lurn to 262) or do you prefer to go to the nght (turn
to 300)?

You have to expend a lot of effort to smash open the
door (deduct 4 points from your stamina). When
finally you do enter the room, you come face to face
with a swoman holding a dagger. Onseeing you, she
rushes away through another door. You are just
dashing after her when you spot a small statue of
Segrek, lying in a comer of the room. You stoop to
pickitup- . .and you hear the voice from the Heart
of the Throne: ‘Brave adventurer, vou have fought
hard — but remember that it is not just the power of
the sword that holds a kingdom together. Remem-
ber this when you mount the throne.” You hurry on
through the gleaming gold door in frant of you-
Turn to 363.

55

You draw your sword as the girl comes running,
screaming, up to you — but then she runs off and the
Gryphawk flies off after her. You look at your
hands; they are covered in red dye. You quickly pat
your pockets. She has taken half your gold coins [if
you have any), plus any phials, potions, rings or
gems you may have had. If you are carrying a
Medallion, that is untouched. (Make the apprapri-
ate adjustments te your Adventure Sheet.) You are
warty of any more thievish tricks and quickly make
your way to the Street of the Forty Guilds. Turn to

56

The figure disappears — and vou find yourself in a
dungeon cell, looking at the Medallion of Yigenik
which is guarded by two panthers. Inside your head
you hear the hoarse voice of the Necromancer:
‘Although an illusion, these creatures are real in
your mind. If their claws rip your flesh, you will
suffer all the agonies.’ ‘I'he panthers snarl and
attack; you must fight each in turn.

SKILL. STAMINA
First PANTHER 5 :
Second PANTHER 6 7

If you win (mark off 2 Poison units on the Ad-
venture Sheet), the scene fades and you are back in
the room below the stairs. In front of you are bya
dead rats, and there is no sign of the Necromancer.
You realize that you have wasted time and that
the Medallion has been taken. You go back out into
the street and head out of town. Do you make
for the forested valley (turn to 257} or for the
mountains (furn to 275)?

57

57

You climb up a long way until you arrive ata greasy
ledge from svhere you look over mto a banqueting
room, its tables covered with dirty plates and
bottles. You drop down into the room and head fora
door— when it is suddenly pushed open and before
you stand four Mamliks. One slinks away im-
mediately while the others prepare to attack. Fight
each in turn.

SKILL STAMINA
First MAMLIK v3 10
Second MAMLIK 6 8
Third MAMLIK 7 9

If you survive, mark off 2 Poison units on the
Adveniure Sheet. The other Mamilik has raised the
alarm while you were fighting, and you now hear
footsteps outside. You jump back into the chute,
down the ladder, and through the giant rat-hole. A
rat is waiting there for you, Tum to 378.

58-59

You poke with vour sword at the bundle which, you
discover, is made of leathery skin. You pullitaside,
to reveal a crouching Goblin, holding a yicious-
looking Gryphawk. He screams, the bird squawks
and they both attack. Fight each in turn.

SKILL STAMINA
GRYPHAWK 5 4
GOBLIN 5 5

If you win, you feel a little dizzy and realize that the
poison is working its way through your body (mark
off 2 Poison units on the Adventure Sheet). However,
you stagger on and, after some lime, you can make
cuta dark figure outlined in the snowscape. Do you
approach this figure (turn to 387} or do you prefer to
hide and let it pass before carryiny on (turn Lo 18)?

59
You decide that it’s safer to stay there; after all, you

do not know what lurks below. You hide behind
one of the snowhanks. Just then a Kazanid appears
and looks at the planks. ‘Huh, one's missing,’ he
stunts. Te’s been here for sure: I'll call the others.’
As he disappears you getup torun. Tes! yorr Lick. If
you are Lucky, you slip on a sheet ofice but recover
your balance and run off (turn to 252). If you are
Unlucky, you slip, fall on to one of the planks and gu
tearing off, head first, down the ice-track. Deducl 4
points from your sta MIN «A and turn to 234-
60

60

You ride off hard and fast, to get a good start. Soon
you can hear the rumble of pursuit, and aftera short
time you turn round to see if anyone is catching up.
You can see only Beshbalik astride his Fangtigers,
his Grypfalcon standing on his mailed shoulder and
flapping its great wings. You know you cannot
outdistance the Fangtigers so, after crossing 4
wide, shallow river, you dismount and prepare to
fight. Beshbalik sends first the Grypfalcon, then the
Fangtigers, to attack. Fight each in turn.

SKILL STAMINA

GRYPFALCON 6 .
First FANGTIGER - 6
Second FANGTIGER é 8

If you win (mark off 2 Poisun units on the Adoenture
Stwet), Beshbalik does not approach. He nods to
you, calls your horse to him, mounts itand rides off.
You know that he will not pursue you any further-
Add 1 paint to your Lucx. Turn to 88.

61

61

You hear a deep booming voice. “Your path will be
hard, you must be brave and have faith in your true
purpose.” Torches suddenly flare up, to reveal a
large circular room with two doors on the far side.
Between you and them, however, stands a very
large black bull. It snorts and stamps, thenlawersits
head and charges. You pull off your cloak and hold
your sword ready-

BLACK BULL

SKILLZ STAMINA 8

If you survive, do you leave by the left-hand door
(turn to 223) or would you prefer to go out through
the right-hand door (turn to 152)?

62

62
You trust the Sensewamior, so you tell him all about
your quest. Mis blank eyes betray no cmotion at
your words. ‘So the Assassins are roaming the land
... What next, the mad Necr- -. - no, Chingiz
would not dare. Come” He leads you across
the bridge, When you are safely across, you see the
Tupes supporting it break, one by one, and the
structure collapses. He mutters, “Goblin Spelicast-
in,’ and betrays a wry smile. For the remainder of
the descent into the valley, he is silent, until he
chooses to stop by a large oak. Tiere,” he
announces, ‘I will teach you the Darkfight.” Mark
this ability on your Adventure Sheet. In any combat
held in darkness you sill retain your normal SKILL.

You continue down the valley until you reach a lone
tavern, the Snorting Stallion. You enter and Alkis
bids you order something io quench both your
thirsts while he sniffs around. The Kazanid behind
the bar has tivo barrels set up. Which do you deade
to ask for: the one marked with a Scimitar (tum to
357) or the Dragon brand (turn to 149)?

63-65

You have drunk the mixture that will bring madness
and death. Chance has intervened in your quest for
the throne of Kazan. Your mission is over.

You are faced with hwo sealed doors to the south
and east, a tunnel leading north and one leading
wrest. To the north there is a gleam of daylight
through a partly open door, and you can also see
two statues of rearing stallions. Which way do you
choose: the funnel to the north {turn to 133} ot the
tunnel leading west (turn to 196)?

65

You find yourselfin an open space with a clear view
of the Fortress. Suddenly, your eye is caught by a
=py-iass lens glinting in the sunshine; someone is
patching yor. Just then you spot two Grypvultures
carrying Khomatads, flapping out of the tower then
dropping down towards you- You run but cannot
escape them. They trap you ina narrow street and
attack from either side. Fight each in turn.

SRILL SPAMINA

First KHOMATAD 7 &

f

Second KEIOMATAD 8 9

If you survive (mark off 2 Poison units on the
Adventure Sheet), you know that time is not an your
side. You duck into another street. Turn to 276,
66-67

66

‘The crashing noise gets nearer and nearer as you
make your way down the tunnel. By the light of
a blazing torch you can see a carving of three Med-
allions. Suddenly there is a very loud crash, one
of the floar-slabs is lifted and up pops the head ofa
Goblin. You slide into the shadows as the Goblin
shouts, ‘We're in! Now, where's the gold?’ He gets
out, followed by a Mamlik. ‘he Mamlik dusts him-
self dawn, points to the carvings, and then stabs the
Goblin in the back. The Mamlik walks over to the
door and goes through it. Do you wish to follow him
through the door (turn to 324) or do you preter to
drop dawn into the tunnel (turn to 141)?

67

You think that you'll be better off mingling with the
crowd, In the middle of the group you see Beshbalik
dispensing gold coins to the Marauders — then
suddenly, close to him, you spot a Mamlik who is
standing staring at you. He pushes his way through
the mob tawards you and the poison in your blood
thrabs (mark off 1 Poison unit). Do you turn and
rush into a nearby hut (turn to 135) or just stay
where you are in the crowd (turn fo 251)?

63

Vetch is easy to follow; he seems to command great
respect from the native Kazanids. At one point he
makes a swaggering Ore step aside and into a
puddle; this pleases the crowd in the streets no end,
You catch up with him and confide to him the
nature of your quest. “You've come to the night
person,” he replies. ‘Tell no one else, for there are
many spies here. Follow me! He leads you to a
ramshackle building, takes you inside and tells you
to waitin a room. Do you sit and wail patiently (turn
to 216) or do you follow him to see where he has
gone {turn to 259)?

A door opens in your mind. You blink as you find
yourself standing outside the fortress of Korkut. In
front of you is a cobbled Jane that leads down to the
harbour. You stand there, dazed. Do you walk
down to the port (turn to 239) or would you prefer to
enter a tavern that you see across the street (turn to
117)?
70-72

70
The track opens out on to a bleak, flat plain with
occasional rocky outcrops. Out of the corner of your
eye you see a large bird, flying high overhead. It
circles closer, and you can see that it is supporting
an armed creature. Suddenly, the bird swoops
down and the nder lunges al you.

KHOMATAD SKILL 8 STAMINA &

if you survive (mark off 1 Poison unit on the Ad-
venture Sheet), turn to 4.

vi

‘Yes, I was happy under Segrek’s benevolent mule, |
was important then,’ the EIf sighs. He ts lost in
thought fora moment, then he remembers the gould.
‘T believe that most of the Select are dead or cap-
tured, and Chingizis feeling contident- but until he
kills all the Select, he cannot claim the Heart of the
Throne of Kazan that bequeaths true kingship. You
must seek help from Bithymian Vetch or Mandrake
Wolfsbane. Sharrabbas is now a city of intrigue and
deception; Mamliks, Necromancers and creatures
of the dark abound. Good luck and, if you succeed,
remember me, “Lightfinger” Greel, if you need a
chancellor.” Turn to 23-

72-73

72
You have the choice of following a corridor to the
north, where you can see a small obelisk, or one to
the west, which also has an cbelisk. The door you
have come through will not open again. Do vou go
north (turn to 235) or west (turn to 389)?

73
You are in a room containing three stone statues of

Trolls. They begin to come to life. Test your Luck. Lf
you are Unlucky, they all come to life and attack you
one by one, Fight each in turn. If you are Lucky,
good fortune slows down their metamorphosis and
only one comes to life, so you have to fight the frst
Troll only.

SKILL STIAMINA

First STONE TROLL 8 rs)
Second STONE TROLL 7 10
Third STONE TROLL 7 10

If you survive (mark off 2 Poison units on the
Adventure Sheet), retum to 160 and throw’ a die for
your next position.

74-75

4

You stand in front of a wall of green shimmering
smoke and a yoice announces, “You have passed
through the Heart of the Throne and have no rival.
You have proved your bravery; walk forth and
complete the ascent to the throne, for you will be
erected, paraded and adulated.’ The mist clears and
2 metal door opens.

You step out and are met by Svo Mamliks holding
komgswords. One of them stabs you before you can
move. If you have the Power of Invulnerability to
Sword-Strike, you are not harmed; otherwise de-
duct 4 points from your STAMINA and mark off 1
Poison unit on the Adventure Skeel. The Mamliks
rush off in opposite directions, sounding the alarm.
Do you now go to the left (turn to 269) or to the right
(turn to 369)?

73>
You continue westwards, then tun a comer and

head north. There you see a black horse standing
stock still. blocking the whole tunnel. Cautiously
you walk closer—but it suddenly comes to lite, paws
the ground and charges at you. Do you stand in
front of it, sword at the ready (turn to 194) or fatten
vourself against the wall (turn to 39)?
Se Se ar

EE

76-77
“5

You trudge along the dusty tunnel. The wizard ~

begins to recite incantations, then, in a command-
ing voice, tells you to stop. You put him down and
he tells you to throw the class on to the ground. ‘By
the evil of the panther master, be broken, allow the
Select of Segrek entry to your Heart thal no other
may enter.’ The claws sink into the ground and the
stone floor is shattered. ‘Inxus Askath Loth Begam-
mus Krac. . . quick, nowy jump!’ The hole shimmers
as though itis about to clase again. You leap down.
Turn to 332.

77

You ate placed in a chamber the Moor of which
consists of 49 separate raised blocks. You musi get
from point A to point B, using the throw of 1 die.
You may throw the die as many times as it takes.
Several blocks {marked with an 5} have vicious
snakes resting on them, which will bite you if vou
land on their block (deduct 3 points fom your
sTAMINA if this occurs). Three bites and vou are
dead.

A throw of 5-6: you may move one block up or
down

A throw of 3- 4: Fou may move one block to the lett
or rissht

A throw of 1-2: no move; stay on your block and
deduct1 point from vour STAMINA.

There is only one rule: you cannot return to any
block you have already stepped on. If you are

77-78

unable to move, deduct 1 point from yoursTAMINA
and throw the die again. Mark your path lightly in
penal

JOO
OOOO
JO #

—
rrr
i!

=
eee:
#0 CI]
Hood «6
[J « L
EEG
2 6

 &
OO
Te
OOO!

You squeeze out through the small hole. Outside,
you can hear the clamour of battle. You duck down
out of sight when you see a Necromancer standing
with his back to you and directing operatiuns. A
troop of mounted Ores ride past through the thick
smoke—but they do not see you (add 1 point to your
LUCK). You set off carefully, slowly and painfully
over the rocky terrain. In the distance you spot an
Orc guarding some horses, but he looks too strong
for you to tackle in your present condition. Tum to
21.

SS SS

79-80

Circling around, you put your weight on something
that gives under you. You fall and land ina pit full of
sharp stakes. Jest your Luck. If you are Untucky, you
are speared in the thigh (deduct 1 point from your
SKILL and 4 points from your STAMINA and mark
off 1 Poison unit). If you are Lucky, you manage to
fall between the stakes and are merely winded.

You stand up and see the Troll peering at you from
above. “Yes, I was wondering how to get past that
trap,’ he murmurs, He obligingly throws down a
length of creeper and hauls you out. Somewhat
shamelacedly, you thank him. Turn to 263-

30
*No, he’s not one of Chingiz’s spies,” says the Mam-
lik. ‘Take him by the secret way into the Fortress.”
This renezade Mamilik is obviously the leader of the
rascals and thieves who haunt this dive. They take
your gold coins. (Deduct 25 gold coins from your
Adventtire Sheet.)

You are led through small back-streets to the south-
western side of the Fortress at the base of which,
under the cover of some bushes, caves, all blocked
by iron bars, are revealed to you. Your companions
push open one of the grilles and one of them is
about to explain something to you, when there is a
yelland a stone gargoyle comes crashing down from
one of the towers. They all run away and you throw
yourself into the cave. In the darkness you feel your
way ahead and find two chamber entrances: one to

80-83

the left (turn to 265) and one to the right (turn to 49)-
Which do you take? .

81
The path drops down steeply and then flattens out.
After passing a large rock quarry, the land begins to
open out. The path then forks; both directions seem
feasible. Do you choose the left fork (turn to 379) or
the right fork (turn to 122)?

82

There are steps going up the side of the chimney,
You climb a long way, only to find yourself even-
tually up against a metal grille. Then smoke begins
to waft up from the fireplace below and you start ta
choke. Suddenly, you notice faint chinks of light
coming from between some of the stone blocks. You
have got to kick those blocks out. Throw 2 dice for
the strength of the wall, then compare this number
th) your STAMINA, If your STAMINA is equal to or
greater than the strength of the wall, you have
broken through. Tum to 140, [f not, then you choke
to death in the smoke and your questis over.

33

You plummet down from the tower. Tes! our Duck.
If you are Lucky, you land on some bushes growing,
from an overhang (deduct 4 points from your
STAMINA, 1 point from your SKILL and mark
off 7 Poison unit): turn to 384. [f you are Unlucky,
you fall all the way to the ground and are killed in-
stantly on impact. Your quest is over-
B4—85
84

You settle down to rest and fall asleep quite quickly
(add 2 points to yoursTAMINa). You are awakened
abruptly by the noise of someone screaming, and
the first thing you see is the dagger of a Mamlik
Assassin about to plunge into your chest. What is
your first reaction: to roll away (turn to 131), or to
raise your hand and try to hold off the dagger by
main force {turn lo 301)?

85
You wrap your cloak around you m an attempt to
look more like a beggar than an adventurer. Just
then someone calls out to you, You look across a
small hollow, to see four knights trving to replace a
wheel ona cart. Do you go over to help them (Eurn to
180) or ignore their call and carry on {turn to 122)?

You stop to rest and eat same of vour Provisions
(add 4 points to your sTAMINA). After some time
your suspicion that you can hear something moving
in the undergrowth becomes a certainty. You are
just pulling out your sword when suddenly an
arrow is fired from behind a tree io your left. You
move quickly. Test your Luck. If you are Unlucky, it
hits you and passes through your shoulder (deduct
1 point from your SKILL and 4 paints fom your
STAMINA, Mark off 1 Poison unit on the Adveniure
Sheef}. UW you are Lucky, the arrow misses.

A black-robed figure drops down to the ground. A
second glance reveals that thisis a woman with long
black hair and evil-looking eyes. Before you can do
anything to defend yourself, you are surrounded by
six similar fisgures. You are helpless. Turn to 395.

87-88
87

You take a tight grip on your sword and follow the
tracks. They seem to be made by a two-legged
creature with large goat-like hoofs. The tracks sud-
denly disappear into a wall where there is no door
visible. You carry on, turn a corner and head west —
to stop in astonishment when you see two hoofed
feet and a scimitar appearing out of the solid wall!
When the body follows, you realize that you are
facing a Horned Devil, which is blocking the corri-
dor. Lf you wish to run back and go the other way,
deduct 2 points from your STA MINA and turn to 36.
if you prefer to fight the creature, you approach it
catefully-

HORNED DEVIL

if you survive, you tush through another door.
Turn to 221-

SKILL 8 STAMINA 6

85

After a long descent, your path leads into a dense
forest. You are not at all sure which is the correct
direction for Sharrabbas, but cart-tracks are visible
on the path, so you guess this must lead to some
Lown or other. Occasionally your roule passes large
black pools which seem to be throbbing with fish.
One pool has a fishing rod held up by a forked stick
and a line hanging down into the water, and almost
at once you see that the line is being tugged from
below. Do you grab the rod (turn to 270) or do you
leave it alone and continue your journey (turn to
167)?
89

89

You go over to the body; the dagger protruding
from it is exactly the same as the one that wounded
you and infected you withits poison. Suddenly you
realize that the man is not quite dead: his eves open.
he looks at you and speaks. “The Mamliks - - - no
.. . they leftme here. - . yes, for dead, got on their
evil black steeds and rode off on the path to the left
...-ha.. . The Death Spell Dageer begins to hiss,
the body wastes away to a skeleton, and the posscs-
sions surrounding it dissolve in smoke. You decide
nol to hang around, so you take the nght-hand
path. After a shorttime, you come to anotherforkin
the track. Do you choose the left path (turn to 314) or
the night (turn to 120)?

90

go

Luckily, you land well, with only minor cuts and
bruises (deduct 1 point from your 5TAMINA and
add x point to your LUCK). However, when you get
up you find yourself surrounded by large black
bulls. You make a dash for a nearby tree as one of
them charges. Throw 2 dice for its speed and com-
pare this with your STAMINA. If your STAMINA 1s
equal to or greater than the speed of the bull, then
you outdistance it. If not, then it overtakes you and
gores you (deduct 4 points from yoursTAMINA anc
mark off 2 Poison umits).

You manage to climb up into the tree —but you are
stuck there as the bulls gather and start to butt the
trunk with their huge horns. All at once a rider.
appears; she shouts at the bulls and makes them
back off. She stares at you for a moment, then
suddenly throws a small dagger which hits a branch
close to vou. A cloud of blue smoke is emitted thal
knocks you out. Turn to 176.
gi

gi

You tell the horsemen that you are one of Segrek‘s
Select. [his makes the riders sit up and look at you
with greater interest. Bhoriss walks his horse
around you and then speaks. ‘You follow a difficult
path, for now traditions are being flouted’ He looks
pointedly at the Orc, who scowls and spits. ‘We are
to test you. Do you agree to the test of the Bogomil?”
You cannot refuse.

They lay you on the ground and tie your arms and
legs to wooden stakes. A wild stallion is then
brought in. It stamps, snorts and kicks, then rushes
to where you are trapped. Throw 1 die for the
position of your right arm, then throw 1 die for
where the horse’s hoofs hit. H the two numbers
thrown match, then you have been hit (deduct <
points from your STAMINA and mark off 2 Poison
units). Repeat this procedure for your left arm and
for both your legs. Lf you are hit twice, you die and
your guest is over. If you survive, you are released
and pronounced worthy to take the second test of
the Bogomil. You are given a mount and you all
gallop off ina group. Turn to 123-

92-93

92

Luckily, there is no Mamiik around, You know the
Ores can have no idea of your mission or status and,
being particularly slow-witted, they are at a loss as
to what to do with you. “Wait till the Mamlik re-
tums,” growls one of them. If you possess a Mamlik
ring, you may show it to them and bluff your way
out of trouble (turn to 255). Ifyou havenoring, then
you know that you must make good your escape
before the Mamlik Assassin returns. You dive for
your sword. Fight each opponent in turn.

SKILL STAMINA
First ORC ra 6
Second ORC 6 5
Third ORC 6 5

if you win {mark off 2 Poison units on the Adventure
Sheet), you run off into the undergrowth just as you
hear 2pproaching hoofbeats. For many hours you
have to move fast and silently, until at last you find
yourself on the edge of a mountain slope. Turn to

397-

93
INVULNERABLE FO SWORD-STRIKE
You have drunk the mixture that gives you this
Power, Make a note on your Adventure Sheet. If this
is Your second Spell potion, turn to 74; otherwise,
return fo 45 and choose your second mixture-
94-95

94
The Orc is within grabbing distance on the top of the
tower, You leap across and make a snatch for his
feet, but as he falls he reaches up and puts the
Medallion into the beak of a Grypfaloon. You let go
of the Orc and jump up to catch the talons of the
bird. It lifts you up and out of the tower; then it
swoops down over a tree and tries to shake and
brush you off. You hold on as it flies up into the
mountains and finally slams you into a cliff-face.
Half-conscious, you let zo uf the talons and slide
down into the bleak, rocky land (deduct 3 points

from your $Ta Mina}. Turn to 275.

95
Suddenly a Minotaur leaps out. He swings his dub

at you and misses, crashing it into the wall. Next, he
tries to gore you with his horns.

MINOTAUR

If you win, you see two tunnels before you; one to
the west {turn to 355) and one to the south (turn to
380). Which do you choose?

SKILL Gg STAMINA 9

5-97

96

You run as fast as you can in the snow. Soon you
hear the sound of approaching riders. Ihe ground
trembles with their hoofbeats as you rush to a
nearby cave and hide. Eventually four mders
appear; they stop and examine your tracks in the
snow. One of them, swathed ina large black cloak,
directs the search; the others are all Orcs. They
dismount and follow your footprints. You know
that you will be able to defend the narrow entrance.
Do you decide to fight (turn to 201) or do you turn
and go further into the cave (furn ta 44)?

97
You are in a room that contains a glass box standing
on an obelisk. Inside the box there is a flower the
scent of which, strangely, you can smell (add 2
points to your STAMINA), but the box is unbreak-
able. Return to 160 and throw a die for your next
position.
98-99

98
You enter the Street of Forty Guilds, You walk up
and down and find that only four guild shops are
not barred or padlocked. Choose the one you wish
to enter; afterwards you may come back to this
paragraph and choose another shop. Once visited,
do not re-enter a guild. Do you choose:

Cross Keys? Turn to 341

Frying Pan? Turn to 26

Tfiammer and Anvil? Turn ta 246

Prancing Pony? Turn to 185
99

You manage to take the evil enchantress by surprise
with your ability. She takes a step back and holds
out her staff; it sprouts a series of jagged-edged
dageers. Use your Necromancer fighting level as
your $Kit f. score for this fight.

NECROMANCER SKILL 9 STAMINA 1D

if vou win, the evil creature's body disappears and
the staff burrows, worm-like, into the ground. You
run off and stumble down the mountain for many
hours (mark off 2 Poison units on the Adventure
Siteet). The path you are following divides. Which
route do you choose to take: the one to the left (turn
to 379) or to the right {turn t& 122)?
1900

100

There is only one accessible cormdor, to the north;
all the other exits are blocked by sealed meta! doors.
Ahead, in the gleam of distant daylight, you see a
grey stone horse. As you approach, it comes to life
in a creaking, cumbling manner. Suddenly metal
pales with spikes sticking out in all directions shoot
out of the walls and block the tunnel ahead. You
cannot climb over this barrier for you would be torn
to pieces on the spikes. Your only hope is to jump
the stone horse over the obstacle. You mount the
horse, dig your heels into its sides, and it charges at
the poles. Throw 2 dice for the height of the poles,
then throw 2 dice again for the jump of the horse. If
the jump is greater than or equal to the height of the
poles, you have cleared them successfully. If not,
then the horse hits the metal poles and begins to fall
fo pieces. You crash into the spikes and are killed
instantly. Your quest is over.

If you clear the poles, the horse solidifies again; you
dismount and stagver out. Tum to 295.

101-102

101

You don’t trustanyone on this road — but walking is
fatiguing (deduct 2 points from your sra MINA}. Al
one point you pass two large stone bulls set on
either side of the road and you notice large herds of
long-homed bulls grazing. Suddenly astorm begins
to blow up; sand, stones and dust are whipped up
all around you. As you stagger on you hear evil
laughter and you lose all sense of direction. When
finally the storm dies down, you can no longer see
the road and you find yourself facing a mountain
slope. You are completely lost. Turn Lo 397.

192

You are just able to move your left hand to touch the
Talon, but the effort exhausts you (deduct 2 points
from your STAMINA). You scan the honzon as
another undead being slices ata piece of your cloak.
Suddenly, you are lifted up high into the sky by
something. The Necromancer screams in frustra-
tion and unleashes a bolt of lightning at you. She
misses, however.

Nighthawk Swoop, the Boulyanthrop who is hold-
ing you, tells you that, following the orders ot
Eleonora, he has been finding out what is happen-
ing in Sharrabbas. ‘The city has been tainted by a
poisonous evil, and the pure-hearted are being kil-
led and driven out.’ Te must travel back with the
news, so he sets you down in a thickly forested
region and soon disappears into the low clouds.
Turn to 167.
103-104

103

You go through a door that closes behind you. You
find yourself in a tunnel with a row of stone bulls on
either side. They may be made of stone- but you are
sure that they are moving slightly 2s you pass.
Suddenly they all come to life and charge at you.
You ruin flat out until you came to the junction ofa
tunnel heading south (turn to 50) and the tunnel
you are already in heading east (turn ta 337). Which
do you choose?

104

You draw your sword. The Kazanid warnor
screams a warning to you, but it is too late. The
Kalamite instinctively squeezes your body and you
are crushed to death. Your quest is over.

105-106

105

To screams of “No, no’ from the old woman you
reach in and scoop up some gold coins in your
hands. Suddenly, something stirs among the
glistening treasure. Before you can withdraw your
hand, 2 golden snake rears up and, hissing, bites
your finger. The hag shakes her head and looks at
you pityingly_ ‘You have forfeited my trust. . - butl
svill not let you die’ She pulls some crushed leaves
out of her apron and rubs them on your bitten
finger. “You will feel weaker for some time’ —deduct
1 point from your SKILL and 2 points from your
STAMINA. Mark off 2 Poison units — ‘but neverthe-
less T will not let you go empty-handed, Here - . -

She hands you 5 gold coins, then hobbles off with
the chest on her back. Add the gold coins ta your
Adventure Sheet and tum to 115.

106

The Trolls pocket your bribe and let you pass. The
cart-driver has seen everything. He asks ifyou want
to ride with him. You climb aboard and, as he flicks
the reins and you set off, he starts complaining,
‘Chingiz again! Imposing tolls ona road that used to
be free when Segrek was alive. Pray the yods send
us a true monarch who will rid us of this scum.
Turn to 1§5-
107-108

107

You jom a small crowd surrounding a man who is
leaning over a box. It is a dice game; he pits his
throw against any challenger and pays back double
the stake if he loses, plus your stake-money, of
course. Do you wish to risk your one remaining gold
coin on the throw of the dice (turn to 125), or do vou
turn your back on the dice game and continue
wandering around (turn to 213)?

108
The hurdy-surdy man straightens up and pulls out
@ shortsword. His fake peg-leg is kicked away and
he rushes at you in his real identity: that ofa Mamlik
Assassin.

MAMLIK ASSASSIN sxiti8 stamina to

If you svin, you see a cart coming towards you. You
Tush over and ask the driver the price for carrying
you away from Korkut, He smiles and tells you that
he will accept you for the pleasure of your company
and the security of an extra siword. “The lands
ahead are full of thieves, brigands and villamous
creatures,’ he comments. Turn to 286.

109

109

You cut his bonds with your sword. He gets up,
pulls a battered wizard’s cap out of a pocket and
begins chattering. “Yes, yes, you're the one I've
been waiting for. Let’s go!’ He takes you to the far
corner of the room and lifts a trap-door. Following
him into it, you find another tunnel. In the gloom
you can hear a breathy rumbling sound; the wizard
suddenly stops, then runs round toa position be-
hind you. In front of you appear two vicious black
panthers. ‘Ah yes, the beasts,’ the wizard murmurs
behind you. ‘Er; would you mind? You pull out
your sword. Fight each in turn.

SKILL STAMINA
First PANTHER 6 5
Second PANTHER 6 6

if you survive (mark off 1 Poison unit on the Adzver-
ture Sheet), the wizard cuts one claw off each beast,
just before they disappear in a cloud of pungent
smoke. “Could come in useful,’ he comments cheer-
fully, “come on! Just then his legs collapse under
him and he asks you te carry him, Do you comply
(turn to 144) or do you give up on him as a waste of
energy and carry on alone (turn to 222}?

Tio0—1it

110

You seek out Chogum, explain the situation to him
and set up the deal. He agrees to give you 20 gold
coins for negotiating the transaction {add 20 gold
coins to your Adventure Sheet), Well satisfied, you
wander out of town and back on to the read. Tum to
280.

111

You can hear crashing and the splintering of wood
behind you. You dart and weave your war through
the undergrowth — but suddenly you come face to
face with Skrutch. He looks embarrassed, then
turns away. You run off and find a tall tree to hide
in. You decide to get down only when you are sure
your pursuers have lost the scent. Turn to 391.

112-113

112
The singing is accompanied by the sound of
hammering on an anvil. Suddenly, the Dwarf
notices you; he stands squarely in front of you,
hammer raised above his shoulder. He is naturally
suspicious and asks you whatis your business here.
Politely, you ask him to direct you to the correct
path for Sharrabbas. He muses on the question. ‘So,
you avoid the main roads, do you? You must have
something to hide—and therefore you're an enemy
of Chingiz. Good.’ He seems to be pleased with the
result of his reasoning; he brightens up and begins
hammering at a small metal object. “Yes, [know the
least frequented route,’ he goes on. ‘But you will
need this. Tle gives you a small but heavy metal
ball, attached to a coil of thin wire rope. He wants no
payment for it, and directs you back up the path.

Turn to 245.

kee}

-_-~

113

When you bend down tostrokeif, othersimilar little
cteatures appear and rush towards you. However,
they stop as the one you are stroking begins to trill
with pleasure. They all begin to purr, and then retire
into their holes. Add 1 point to your Luck. Walking
on, you go through a metal door that shuts behind
you with a soft clunking sound. Tur to 342.
114-115

iis
You sit down and put your boots on. Then you
stand up and take a lookat the tree in front of you. It
has what look like the heads and bodies of warriors
attached to it, and you notice that two separate
branches are moving towards you. You chop atone
of the branches as it tries to grab you, but fail to
observe that the other is encircling your ankle.
Other branches move out menacingly towards you.

GNARLED OAK SKILL 7 STAMINA 8

if you survive (mark off 1 Poison unit on the Adven-
ture Sheet), you find yourself completely lost in the
forest gloom. You are sure you can hear Impish
laughter in the distance. You pick out two possible
paths at random. Which one do you take: the route
leading straight ahead (turn to 311) or the one to the
right (turn to 257)?

115

The path slopes gently down for some way. Even-
tually you walk round a huge boulder and come
upon a strange sight: a large, hideous, fanged worm
with something bird-like struggling in its mouth.
Around it flutter and squawk strange beings with
golden wings. They are trying to help one of their
number release himself from the worm before it can
drag its prey into the ground. Do you decide to help
(turn to 374) or do vou prefer to keep a low profile
and not set involved (turn to 18}?
116-117

116

You walk for many hours and the ground begins to
get steeper. The track eventually peters out; gazing
around in the clear light, you see, far below, aline of
riders. You cannot know who they are, but decide to
press on. You reach the snowline and, turning, see
the riders release a message hawk. You come to an
area of very thick snow; your legs sinkin up to your
knees and progress becomes very slow and tinng
(deduct 1 point from your $T4 MLN a4 and mark off 1
Poison unit). Suddenly, rounding a bend, you come
up against a deep chasm. There are Hvo snow-

bridges across it. Which do you risk using for your
crossing: the one on the left (turn to27) or the oneon
the right {turn to 226)?

117

You enter the Dead Man‘s Chest Tavern. It is full of
old salts, Kazanids, seafaring Dwarfs, and Goblin
deck-hands. You sit and rest (eat some Provisions if
you have any left; otherwise your only option is to
pay 1 gold coin for a meal, Add 4 points to your
STAMINA). Ina corner of the inn you seea group of
sailors crowding round a one-eved individual. They
are plaving Snakes’ Eyes. Do you wish to gamble
(turn to 354) or do you just leave (turn to 168)?

118

118

You elect to stay close to your new companions. As
you mount your horse you hear the swish ofarrows.
Test your Luck. lf you are Lucky, the arrows miss and
you ride into the fray. Ifvou are Unlucky, one arrow
wounds you in the thigh. You pull it out (deduct 3
points from your STAMINA) and join the others.

You face to Orcs holding long spiked spears. Fight
each in turn.

SKILI STAMINA
First ORC 6 5
Second ORC 7 6

lf you survive {mark off 2 Poison units on the
Adventure Sheet), you become separated from the
others in the dark. You listen carefully for sounds of
your companions. You can hear a noise to your left
{turn to 12} and something going on straight ahead
(turn to 272). In which direction da you choose to
ride?
119-120

119

You find yourself in a room on the edge of a pre-
cipice. A frail wooden bridge spans the chasm. At
your feet lie tivo heavy stone blocks. A compelling
yoice tells you to carry the blocks across to the other
side. You may not refuse. Throw 2 dice todetermme
the weisht of the blocks; next throw 2 dice to deter-
mine the strength of the bridge. If the weight of the
blocks is greater than the strength of the bridge, it
will collapse and you will fall into the bottomless pit.
Your quest ends here. If the bridge holds, add i
point to your Luck, return to 160 and throw the
mayic die to continue through the Maze.

120

You trudge through the snow for a long time. The
wind is cold and cuts chillingly into your skin.
Eyentually it stops snowing, the wind dies down
and you hear the sound of hoofbeats on the soft
snow... they are getting nearer. Do you decide to
hide behind some rocks (turn to 353) or stand your
ground {turn to 30}?

i121

121

You pull out your sword and altack. Fight each
Goblin in turn.

SKELIL. STAMINA
First GOBLIN 5 5
Second GOBLIN 5 6

If you win (mark off 2 Poison unils on the Adventire
Sheet), you hear a strange, distant voice. ‘Brave
adventurer, you have defended the tomb of Seg-
tek,” it says. “You are the last of the Select. Take the
horn, it will help you find the True Path to the
Throne.” The voice fades and a small curved horn
appears on the tomb. You pick it up. Add the horn
to your Adventure Sheet.

You leave the room and enter another that has a
large fireplace in the middle of one wall. Light is
coming down the chimney, and you notice a series
of steps cut into the sooty blacks of stone, leading
upwards. In the far corner of the room is a spiral
staircase, also going upwards. Which route do you
choose: the chimney (turn to 82) or the staircase
{turn to 260}?
122-123

122
You press on, The ground becomes broken and
large crevices appear, so that you have to jump
across the wider gaps. The occasional black bird flies
over, and eventually a thick mist dears momentarily
to reveal the distant towers of Sharrabhas across a
desolate-lonking plain. The mist clases in again and
at last you reach a rushing myer. There is 2 small
boat tied to a stake on the bank — but there are no
vars. Do you get into the boat (furn to 51) or do you
prefer to walk along the riverbank (turn to 229)?

a3

The Bogomils ride hard and fast. Eventually you
reach a settlement of stone buildings in the shape of
a Tough circle. [loms are sounded, and many other
riders appear. You are told to dismount and are
made to stand in a clearing in the middle. Then the
crowd parts to let in a large white siallion which
has obviously not been tamed: it bucks, kicks,
jumps and twists. One of the riders announces:
‘Bucephax,’ You must nde this creature for as long
as you can. Two horsemen lean down and catch you
by the upper arms; they lift you up between hee
and drop you on to the horse’s saddie. Throw i
Ifyou throw a1 ora 2, you are unseated and cok to
the ground (deduct 2 points from your STAMINA)
You are then remounted im the same wey, Repeat
this procedure forir more times. lf you are unscated a
total of three times, the third time you are winded
by the falland cannot move; the horse kills you with
a blow from its hoof. Your quest is over. if you

123-126

sutvive (mark off 1 Poison unit), you are dusted off

and led to a large gate. Turn to 20.
124

Turn to 361.
+25

You push your way to the front and challenge the
dice gambler. Throw 2 dice for your turn and 2 dice
for his. If your total is the greater, you double the
stake and throw again. If the throws are equal,

throw again. If you lose, you lose all. Continue until
you lose your stake or win a maximum of 9 gold
coins (mark the changes on the Adventure Sheet).
Turn to 213.

126

As the holder of two Medallions, vou haye the nght
to choose two Powers that will aid you when you sit
on the throne of Kazan. Choose five from the follow-
ing list, then go to the relevant paragraphs: 93; 166;
339; 356; 376; 384. Note down which Powers you
now haye (they are listed in capitals at the start of
the appropriate paragraphs) - but do not read any
further into those paragraphs. When you have
chosen two Powers, turn to 74.

127-128

127
‘The leader of the bandits stands in front of you and
questions you, You see no reason to deny the real
nature of your quest. Upon hearing your story, he
raises his yisor and smiles. “You see, I was formerly
one of the Select, but 1 gave up the quest: Chingiz is
tax strang- However, you are brave to carry on. Do
you wish to purchase information? Ten gold coins to
a fellow adventurer.’ If you would like to buy in-
formation, turn to 279. If you have no gold, or donot
wish to spend it, turn to 383.

128

You approach a rough-looking sailor lounging on
the gangplank and ask him how much passage to
Kazilik would cost. He rubs his stubble with his
fingers and looks yau up and down. Twenty gold
coins, all found — and as many ship‘s biscuits you
tan eat.” Some of the sailors nearby look up and
laugh. Lf you can afford it, do you accept (deduct 29
gold coins on your Adventure Sheet and turn to 299).
OT give up the idea of travelling by boat and walk on
along: the harbour (turn to 339)?

£29

129
The route described by the Dwarf is long, but there
is less likelihood of meeting Mamiliks or Orcs on it.
You follow the city walls for a long time. They are
not well guarded and there are occasional breaches;
as ¥ou pass one of the larger holes, you hear a
Fapping, growling sound and see a pack of white
wolfhounds racing towards you. Three choose to
attack you. Might each in turn.

SKELI STAMINA

First WOLFHOUND 7 6
second WOLFHOUND 6 6
Third WOLFHOUND 6 7

If you survive (mark off 2 Poison units on the
Adventure Sheet), you press on. The directions given
are perfect, and eventually you stand at the en-
trance to the Street of the Forty Guilds. Turn to 98.
130

130

You support the old crone through the forest. She
tells you that her name is Mayaka and that you are
taking her to Brassino-Dendro, in the north of the
forest. Eventually you arrive ata clearing where you
find three figures, just like Mayaka, grouped
around a boiling cauldron. Mayaka tells them how
you helped her escape from the huntresses and of
your quest, and they agree to help you. They give
you six sprigs of prime Treffilli, and Mayaka ex-
plains the spells that go with them.

“You may use the herb only when you feelit vibrate.
Crush one sprig and whisper “By Ash end Bird”, and
your adversary will fall asleep. Crush tvo sprigs
and whisper “By Asit and Bird end Crust’, and you
will become invisible to all senses for several mi-
nutes.’ She warns you to be frugal in the use of these
spells since they are harmful: you must deduct 3
points from your STAMINA for every sprig you use,
Mark the Tretfilli on the Adventure Steet, Mayaka
shows you the path out of the forest on to the
Kazanid plain-

After many hours’ walking, you reach a fork in the
road. A carved-stone obelisk points in 6yo possible
directions. Which way do you choose: the way of
the Bull (turn to 278) or the way of the Horse (furn to
225)?
131-132

131

You elect to roll away, but the dagger is at the point
of striking you. Jest your Leck_ Tf you are Lucky, the
blade cuts through your cloak and breaks on the
hard wooden board. The Assassin makes a swift exit
through the half-open door. If you are Unlucky, the
dagper grazes your ribs. Deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA and henceforth mark off double the Poisan
units on your Adventure Sheet.

You find no trace of the beggar and, if you had
them, 5 gold coins are missing from your purse
(deduct these from the Adventure Sheet}. You go
outside, wondering whether to trust the beggar’s
advice. Turn to 150.

132

You are in a gloomy chamber. You cannol move and
your hands are Spellbound. Suddenly, 2 Mamlik
‘Assassin appears, raises a Dagger of Darkness and
plunges it into your chest. ‘The illusion fades (de-
duct 2 points from your STAMINA). Return to 160
and throw: the magic die for your next position.

1337134

133

When you get close to the statues, they begin to
creak, then start crashing their hoofs down. Test
your Luck. [you are Unlucky, you are struck (deduct
3 points from your STAMINA) and you lose all
potions, rings or gems you may have in your pos-
session (make the appropriate adjustments on the
Adventure Sheet). If you are Lucky, the hoofs miss
you. In either case, mark off 1 Poison unit. Yourush
out of the maze {turn to 295)-

134

The Yigenik then accompany you toa large wooden
gate. The walls of the Maze beyond it are composed
of thick poisonous bushes. The old woman orders
three Fangtigers to be released into the maze;
however, as she is wishing you good luck, a disturb-
ance is heard from within and a Jarge Grypvultureis
seen flying off, carrying a small Orc in its talons. The
Yigenik elders notice with horror that the Ore is
holding their Medallion. ‘Ttis taken by one notofthe
Select. Recover it at once or we are doomed,’ they
cry. The warmors shoot volleys of arrow’ at the Orc.
One arrow pierces his thick hide and he falls into a
nearby street. You give chase on foot through the
narrow lanes. You observe a trail of blood and see
on your left a door to a house being shut. You enter
the building and glimpse the Orc running upstairs.

Do you rush after the Orc (turn to 46} or do you
proceed carefully and cautiously (turn to 218)?
135-136

135
The hut is glaomy and you melt into its darkest
recesses. The Mamlik appears at the door, pulls out
a dayyer and slowly enters; he seems to sense your
presence, so you altack him. If you have the ability
of Darkfight, fight as normal; otherwise deduct 2
points from your sKIxt for this combat only.

MAMLIK

If you win (mark off 1 Poison unit on the Adventure
Sheet), you hide the body and quietly slip back out-
Turn & 319.

SKILL 6 STAMINA [0

136

You come to a door which you push open and enter
another tunnel. The door closes silently behind you,
and you follow the tunnel which tums a comer and
then heads east. In the torchlight you see a small
figure. [tis a Dwarf who, when he sees you, rushes
over and begs: ‘Please help me, for I lack the
strength to open these doors.’ He looks at you with
pleading eyes which you cannot resist, so you agree
to help him. He claps his hands with joy, then walks
to the door with you. You push at the door then,
suddenly looking around, see the Dwarf trans-
formed into a hideous monster that fills the width of
the whole tunnel. Long-clawed hands reach out to
stab you.

DUNGEON DELVER

If you win, you push the door open. Turn to 292.

SKILLZ STAMINAS

.

137-138

137

The screen prevents your hearing most of the words
spoken and although the chanting goes on, you
can't tell what is happening. Occasionally, the room
is lit by multi-coloured flashes, and odd pieces of
broken glass fly past you. The commotion slowly
dies down, until you deem it safe to escape. As you
creep out on all fours, you come across a Red Gem
on the floor. If you wish to take it, mark it on your
Adventure Sheet. Thankfully, you leave this lair of
magic-making and find yourselfin the open air once
more. Turn to 7o.

138

Adana-Broussah is pleased. She tells you that Besh-
balik has been away, making final preparations to
carry out a small job; an attack upon a large group of
bandit Trolis who are preying on a local village.
4 horm-blast greets the arrival of Beshbalik who
comes charging across the shallow river, riding two
Fangtigers and with a-Grypfalcon perched on his
shoulder. He enters the camp af an incredible
speed.

The attack is prepared; there is no spare mount for
you, so you mustjoin the rabble who run behind the
138-139

horses (deduct 1 point from your STAMINA). By the
time you reach the others, the Marauders have
already engaged the Trolls in battle. Arriving at the
scene of batile, you walk straight into a huge.
wounded Troll who swings a giant scimitar al you.

BANDIT TROLL

if you win (mark off 1 Poison unit on the Adventure
Sheet), do you join a large group who seem to be
dividing the spoils among themselves (furn to 67) or
will you stay in the shadows of the Troll huts (turn
to 319)?

SKILL Q STAMINA %

139
You search the body. You finda Blue Gem and a box

marked ‘Treffilli', with two sprigs of a green plant
inside it. If you wish to keep either of these, mark
them on your Adventure Sheet.

On geiting up, you find yourself facing two Bone-
crusher Beasts. Fight each m turn.

SKILL STAMINA
First BONECRUSHER 7 8
Second BON ECRUSHER 8 6

lf you survive (mark off 2 Poison units on the
Adventure Sheef}, you rash out through the door.
Turn to 295.

———

140-142

140

You crawl through the hole in the wall, to find
yourself on top of a smelly mound of rubbish.
Something falls on to your shoulder and joins the
rotting mess; it lnoks like an animal's carcass. just
then, you hear a scrabbling sound and see three
huge rats. They are blind and have no tails; one of
them begins to sniff at your boots, then pulls at one
of the straps; then it vanishes into a very large hole.
Looking around, you spota Jadder. Do you wish to
climb up the ladder (turn to 57) or follow the rat into
the hole (turn to 378)?

141
You crawl along the narrow tunnel. It is old and
parts of it are collapsing. Something scuttles along
the ground and bites you (deduct 1 point from your
STAMINA). The roof of the tunnel begins ta shake —
and then collapses on top of you. You are coveredin
dirt and rubble; holding your breath, you try to dig
your way out. Throw 2 dice for the amount of air in
your lungs, then throw 2 dice for the amount of air
you will need to escape from the cave-in. If the airin
your lungs is equal to or greater than the air needed,
then you have made it to another tunnel (turn to
377). Otherwise, you suffocate; your quest is over.

142
You have drunk the fatal mixture of the Luckless.
Fortune has not favoured you in your quest for the
throne. You suffer an agonizing death.
143-144

You are in a room with a large trapdoor set in the
floor. The walls of the room begin to close in and
the trapdoor swings open to reveal a snakepit. You
drop down into the pit. Throw 1 die for the number
of snakes that bite you as you rush towards the door
leading ta safety. Deduct 2 points from your
stamina for each bite. You open the door — and
everything blacks out. Return to 160 and throw the
magic die to continue.

mr

Ryd “my ree

144

You pick him up and carry him on your back.
Fortunately, he is very light. While you trudge on,
he continues to mutter. ‘Look out for that flagstone,
make sure you jump over it — Orc trick, every
thirty-third pace . . “ You doas he bids. Hetellsyou
his name is Saxifragus, then he mumbles the name
of Astragal. ‘Oh yes, you're lucky you ran into me,’
he goes on (add 1 point to your Luck), Tbelieve you
are the last of the Select.’

+h

A . ae

yeas iat Qt

S- =i
= ~
E

“re
* 64

J ‘

You pass rooms and tunnels with the dust and
cobwebs of centuries on them. Finally, you come up
against a giant sticky web. The wizard tells you to
cut through it with your sword and adds that you'd
better hurry up about it. You must cut 24 thick
strands. Throw 2 dice four times for the number of
strands you manage to cut. If you throw 24 or over,
turn to 277- If you throw less than 24, turn to 29.

con

-
iy dad

. -
i.
_- .
i
.
: -“
—

; -
sce" * 4 etn ee .
br} aT Ra Ye, ‘tS

oe A . J
Eta te edd bras yam

ae ¥ y

4 Uh:

denen Ih ES

sl (Te

eee Be

j!
+36
‘

. : ‘ P| - >:
ike haa,
cso § “it x
’ ; <

p Ay 0
a

t

«
*
Mr
[
rte
iG
J Pay

¥
tas
ee
u

wy
iv

145

145

You stagger along the rocky path as it drops down
into a valley, Ahead, you make out a small wisp of
black cloud that takes on the shape of a face and you
hear a female voice: Forget your quest. Kazan will
have its ruler from the line of Chingiz.” The moun-
tain begins to rumble and shake, and rocks start to
roll and slide down towards you. You rush for
cover, Throw 1 die six times and mark the sequence
of numbers you throw on the Adventure Sheet: this
represents the random fall of rocks. Now throw 2
die six times to mark your nun for cover. Ifa number
in the second sequence matches its counterpart in
the first, a rock has hit you and you are severely
injured (deduct 4 points from your sTA mina and 2
point from your skit1.. Mark off Poison unit). If
you make it unscathed, add 1 point to your
LUCK.

You carry on down a dry river valley, and eventu-
ally your route divides into two paths. Which do
you follow: the left-hand path (turn to 7) or the
right-hand path (turn to 81)?

146

The sprigs of Treffilli vibrate in your pocket. You can
just move your hand with great pain and effort. You
reach two sprigs of Treffilli, crush them and recite
the formula: ‘By Ash and Bird and Crust’. Deduct
the two sprigs from your Adventure Shee! and 6
points from your STAMINA. If you are still alive, the
Necromancer is startled as you disappear, Spell-
binding control is released, and you are free to walk
away from the hideous scene.

You follow a winding, twisting path for many
hours, then stop io eat some Provisions {add 4
poimts to your STA MINA). Turn to 122.

147
You walk along the corridor and go through another
metal door. You are beginning tu feel tired, and the
air is stifling (deduct 1 point from your TA MINA).
You are faced with tunnels running west (turn to
232) and north (turn to 305). Which do you choose?
148-149

‘The horse is very fast over the rough ground. There
are shouts behind you and you hear the swish as an
arrow passes over your left shoulder. You rideat full
gallop for many miles until at last you find yourself
faced with a huge felled tree-trunk lying across your
path. You press your horse on, it jumps high, clears
the obstacle and lands on the other side with a jolt
that snaps the saddle-girth. The saddle slides off
and you are thrown to the ground- Test your Luck. If
you are Unlucky, you fall badly (deduct 2 points
from your sTAMin a). If you are Lucky, you land on
soit turf. The horse canters off into the distance. You
get up, shake yourself down and walk on until you
come to a good place fora rest. Turn to 399.

149
The Dragon brew slips down your throat very

easily. You feel good and your body begins to warm
up from the inside (add 4 points to your STAMINA).
Alkis returns, sniffs the tankard and is agreeably
surprised that you have chosen his favourite brew.
‘Don’t on any account try the Scimitar dregs unless
you're a Khomatad from the northern wastes,” he
advises. ‘l'un to 210.

150-151

150

You trudge on through the snow until the path you
are on begins to feel firmer underfoot and you
realize that you must be on some sort of highway.
You walk on cautiously until you reach a place
where the road forks. A small obelisk marks the
left-hand way with the carving of a horse. Do you
choose this route (turn to 391) or do you prefer to
take the right-hand fork (turn to 275)?

151

You approach the evil Mage and pull out your
sword. He smiles and stands, stack still, with stafi
upraised. Your sword strikes his staff, and the smile
is wiped from his hideous face. Use your Necro-
mancer fighting ability level as your SKILL score for
this fight.
NECROMANCER

If vou win (mark off 1 Poison unit on the Adventure
Sheet), the body disappears in a cloud of pungent
smoke and the staff burrows, worm-like, into the
ground. A great cheer goes up fram the Marauders,
and Beshbalik brings you two Fangligers to ride, as
the horde prepare foranother rampage. Turn to197.

SKILL 9 STAMINA 10
152

You entera chamber containing sculptures of Fang-
tigers. Before your very eyes, two of the carvings
come to life; they prow] around, sniffing, then they
spot yau and attack. Night each in turn.

Skit STAMINA
First FANG TIGER 6 8
Second FANGTIGER 7 19

If you survive (mark off 2 Poison units on the
Adventure Sheet), the bodies tum to stone again. You
find yourself in front of two doors. Which do you
choose: a door to the lefi (turn to 254) ora door to the

tight (turn to 392)?

153-154

153

You are at a crossroads: tunnels lead north and
west, but there are shut and sealed doors to the
south and east. The northern passage is short and at
the end of it you can see an open door leading to
some more tunnels. If you choose to go north, you
pass through the door, which shuts softly behind
you (turn to 222). If you choose to go west, tum to
240.

154
You will nat draw a weapon in the shadow of

the Throne of Kazan. You walk past the Ogres,
who suddenly stop in their tracks and turn to stone,
You sit on the Throne and watch, horifted, as
Meghan-na-Dur, daughter of Chingiz, collapses
and turns to dust. A slight breeze blows her ashes
out through an open window. Turn to 400.
a
wel
me ify s.*

155-156

155

The cart climbs over a rise and you get your first
clear view of Sharrabbas: a city dominated by its
Fortress. Flaxwort, the driver, has guessed that you
2re one of the Select. and decides to help you get
into the city. lo that end, he disguises you as his
assistant. ‘They're looking for lone adventurers, sa
if you put this apron and cap on and cover up that
dlade, there . . ~ It being market-day, the city is
crowded with carts. The Ores at the gate only give
you a brief glance before putting a small chalk-mark
on the side of the cart. The road forks and Flaxwort
sks you which way you wish to go: to the left (tum
10 343) or the right (turn to 249).

156
You walk down the tunnel and are amazed to see a
number of sparks shooting out of a small pebble that
is Iving on the floor. A black, foul-smelling smoke
rises from the pebble; it takes the shape of a man
wearing a hooded cloak and carrying a staff in-
scnbed with a black panther. With an ironic bow he
declaims gratingly, ‘T am Sigismuh, from my Lord
Chingiz’s cohort of Necromancers. | am here. to
destroy YOU Atonce you pull out your sward and
stnke at him. The blade passes clean through his
Sody, with no effect. He laughs and strikes the
ground with his staff. Immediately, the roof begins
tO cave in and you are forced ta nim for the next
door. Throw 1 die three times for a series of falling
Slocks and then throw 1 die three times for your nin
to the door. If any numbers match in the first and
156-158

second sequences, you are hit (deduct 4 points from
your $1 AMINA). If you survive, you go through the
door and it shuts behind you. Turn to 264-

i57
You are in a room with a long table in the middle.
Scrawled on the table is the legend, The Fiend
Loves Flowers’. Return to 160 and throw the magic
die for your next position.

158

You open the door to a room containing three
Gremlins; they comprise Chingiz’s personal body-
guard. Suddenly, a fourth, which had been hiding
behind the door, strikes you in the side with 2
shorisword, then runs offas the others altack. If vou
have the Power of Invulnerability to Sword-Strike,
firht as normal. If not, then deduct 1 point from
your SKILL, Fight each in tum.

SKILL STAMINA
First GREMLIN 4 4
Second GREMLIN 4 6
Third GREMLIN 4 6

If vou win (mark off 2 Poison units on the Adpenture
Sheet), the fourth Gremlin has busied himself, lock-
ing a great door with a massive Key and then, with
difficulty, managing to swallow it. He now stands
swith his back to the door: If you have the Power af
Persuasion, turn to 347. H not, then turn to 54-

159

159
You slip behind a tree and work your way towards
cover behind some rocks. Suddenly you become
aware of a large Grypvulture that is sweeping down
above you. It screeches and attacks you with iron-
ined spike-talons. You pull out your sword just in
ome.

CRYPVULTURE SKILL 6 STAMINA 6

if you survive, Tesf your Luck. If you are Unlucky,
you find yourself surrounded by Orcs, one of whom
throws a large net over you (fun to 92). If you are
Lucky, you manage to slip back into the milling
crowd on the roadway just befure the Orcs arrive.
Turn to 308.

160

160

You are escorted to the next chamber. The Maze
has 24 chambers,’ you are told, ‘and you move
around it by throwing the magic die and moving the
number of squares indicated by the throw. Mark
your position on the chart below. There are many
dangers and you will probably experience them
again and again.*

Make a note of the number of this paragraph. You
are at Start. Throw the die and move in the direction
indicated by the arrows. (For example, if you first
throw a 4, count 4 squares and move on to 73. Tum
to that paragraph and, when instructed, retum
here, throw the magic die again, and continue your
progress through the Maze.)

If you encounter a Serpent's head ora Stairway, you
will be told to move straight away into another
chamber, Mark your new position on the chart
before throwing the next die- If you throw a die that
would take you beyond 398, go to 398.

[aon --[a82 +f 367}~-{358}--f340}-[327)

[2ai}-{ 247 }-+{262}--4 282-1302

Boe eae Po ee
[Start}—-{ 3 [ej 17 }+] 35 +4 73

i19

:

161-163

161

You walk along the path for many hours. The
mountains behind you recede, the path grows less
sicep end the countryside becomes much greener.
You cross several small streams and you notice
more and more trees, until at last you lind yourself
at the edge of a huge forest. Within, you can hear
Strange creatures screaming and calling to one
another. All this walking has made you tired; do
you stop now to rest (turn to 86), or do you wish to
“arty on quickly into the dark forest (turn to 368)?

162

You walk over to the obelisk. The woman is young
and strong, and you notice a sheathed dagger under
her cleak. She asks vou if you wish to enter the
Fortress, adding that she doesn’t want to know
why, but she knows people who could help, ‘for a
price’. You ask how much and she replies, ‘Twenty-
five gold coms.” Have you got this much, and do
you think you can trust her anyway (turn to 375) or
do you prefer to carry on alone (turn to 276)?

163

The Eagle grasps an iron rod between its talons, and
Geronicus invites you to take a firm hold on the rod.
The huge bird flaps its wings and lifts you up witha
judder. Tf has great strength but your arms tire
(deduct 1 point from your STAMINA), and you are
glad when it puts you down ona path and then flies
away. Turn to 391.
164-166

164

You are in the Street of the Stonemasons. In front of
you a group of Kazanids are hauling blocks of stone
up into a cart. One of them calls you over and asks if
you want to earn 2 gold coins, You can see the
shadowy figure of a Mamlik standing at the street
comer. Do you help the stonemasons (turn to 296}
or refuse the offer of work and carry on walking
{turn to 350)?

165

You stride along the tunnel. The torches bum
brightly and you examine the wall-carvings. Stone
point you make out the word ‘THE’ engraved on
wall, but this makes no sense to you. You come toa
door thal opens easily but shuts firmly behind you.
You have a choice of continuing west (turn to 75) or
following a funnel north (turn to 273). Which do you
choase?

166
GREAT WISDOM
You have drunk the mixture that gives you this
Power. Mark this ability on your Adventure Sheet. If
this is your first choice, return ta 45 and choose
again; otherwise, turn to 74.

—

167-168
167

You walk on through the forest, and after many
hours you stop to rest (add 4 points to your
STAMINA). Just aS you are getting up to go, you
suddenly notice a foot poking out from behind a
doulder. Creeping round with sword drawn, you
come upon a scene of carnage: Gvo Orcs and two
Trolls ie dead, sprawled around a lone adventurer.
You count yourself hucky that you didn’t arrive here
earher (add 1 point to your Luck). You search
through the hapless adyenturer’s pockets and finda
crumpled-up parchment. You flatten it out ta tead:
‘The Wolfsbane at the Street of the Forty Guilds. . .”
The restis torn away. You salute the body and walk

quickly away-

Eventually the path splits into two; either could be
the correct way to Sharrabbas, so which do you
choose: the left-hand path (turn to 23) or the one to
the night (turn to 4)?

168

You stand in the road and watch a cart passing,
pulled by four large horses, You know that you
must make all speed upon your mission; the poison
m your body will not let you dawdle, Do you choose
to approach the cart-driver (turn to13} or would you
rather head down to the harbour to seek other forms
of transport (turn to 239)?
169
169

You foree yourself to crawl on, knowing, that if you
stop for just a moment fo lie down, you will find :
impossible ta get up again {deduct1 point from your
STAMINA). As your will strengthens, the storm
loses its intensity, You wander from the track you
were following, andstumble on as best you can- Just
then, you see a strange rippling effect moving UNnGer
the snow ahead of you; something is moving 1st
and itis heading towards yau. Suddenly you exper
ence a sharp pain in your left ankle (mark off 2
Poison units). You lunge with your sword at the
spot where you think the creature is lurking undez
the snow; something shrieks and nips you on the
right ankle. Yau twill have to fight it.

SNOW LEECH

If you survive, you can find no trace of the creature.
Turn to 370.

SKILL 5 STAMINAT

170-171

170
You make for the door as fast as possible, but you
can hear a strange beast just behind you. It grabs
you and squeezes, trying tocrush the life out of you.
You shake vourself free and pull out your sword.

BONECRUSHER BEAST sxiItL6 sTAMINAS

if you survive, you rush out through the door, Turn
10 295.

171

You wait to ambush them. When they arrive, you
notice that one is a Goblin. You leap out, and he
orders the Sniffer Orcs to attack. Fight each in turn,

SKILL. STAMINA
First SNIFFER ORC 7 6
Second SNIFFER ORC - 6

4 you survive (mark off 2 Poison units on the
Adventure Sheet), the Goblin has disappeared during
the fight, and you make good your escape. After
many hours’ walking, vou find a place to rest, Turn
© 399.
172

172

When you confide in him, the Boulyanthrop, whose
name is Greyfeather, decides that you must go with
them back to the eyrie. They flap their great wings
and lift you up. You fly over a great forest until you
eventually reach a strange cliff from where you can
see other Boulyanthrops flying out to greet you.
You are carried in through one of the rectangular
holes in the cliff and are greeted there by a bird-
woman called Eleonora. She listens patiently to
your tale, then speaks. “You are in great danger-
Chingiz has allied all the forces of evil against the
Select. We ourselves do nct possess either a Maze or
a Medallion — but I will present you with the Grey
Talon of Sakar’ — mark this on your Adventire Sheet,
‘Tf ever you need help froma winged creature, hold
this in your hand and call for assistance.’ Eleonora
also tells you that the Grey Talon will help if you get
to the Maze at Uruz: ‘Two Wings, Three Talons and
Seven Lives: the magic Spell will help you.’ This is
all the help the birdpeople can offer you, She bids
you farewell and you are flown gut of the eyrie.
Greyfeather, your carrier, asks you which land you
wish to head for first: the land of the Bogomil (turn
to 225) or the land of the Uruz (turn to 278). You tell
him which you have chosen, and he sets you down

SE i ey ee fe on the correct path, then flies off.
ee ee 3 : 3 , 3 3 é 5 ;

Se > a ae

ro ira 2. wz a

173-174

173

You are in a room full of flowers which give off no
smell and are protected by cruel thorns. You may
choose whether to pick a flower and place itin your
backpack {mark a flower on your Adventire Sheet). If
you do so, then the thorns prick you badly (deduct 2
points from your sTAMINA). Return to 160 and
throw another die to carry on.

174
Inside the room, torches are blazing and a cauldron
is bubbling over a green flame. You plunge your
hands into the chest to take one of the rings. Test
your Luck. If you are Unlucky, a snake lying coiled
beneath the treasures rears up and bites you, inject-
ins a vile poison into your body. Henceforth,
whenever you are instructed to mark off Poison
units, you must double the number given in the text.
If you are Lucky, the snake strikes at you but misses.
Suddenly you become aware of an eerie chanting
sound: you must hide. Do you rush behind a large
screen in the far corner of the room (turn to 137) or
dive behind a padded chair to your left (tum to 394)?

175-176

175

You enter the enclosure, spit on your hands for luck
and pick up a large hammer. Many of the people in
the crowd are making bets on the outcome. Throw 2
dice — this is the strength needed to ring the bell.
if the total is equal to or less than your current
STAMINA, then you have succeeded in hitting the
bell.

You are immediately showered with daggers, Test
your Luck again. If you are Unlucky, some ot the
daggers wound you (deduct 4 points from your
STAMINA and mark off 2 Poison units). If you are
Lucky, you escape withoul a scratch, Add 10 gald
coins to the total on your Adventure Sheet.

You leave the fair and manage to find the main road
to Unuz. Turn to 280.

176
You wake up to find yourself lying on a bed of
stretched hides; before you stands a woman holding
2 lamp made from a large crystal. ‘Well met! Uruz
magic is not strong but we are able to recognize one
of Segrek’s Select." She points to the glowing crystal:
Ve have revived you, but the restis up to you. Do
you wish to undergo the Test of Unuz for the honour
of entering the Maze and seeking the Medallion?’ If
you agree, turn to 258, If vou refuse, you lose
consciousness and awaken to find yourself lying by
the side of 2 path. You shake yourself and get up.
Turn to 225-
177-179

177

You trudge through the snow, stumbling over the
rocks, The path is leveland seems to weave through
the mountain pass. Ahead, you see a snow-covered
mound from one side of which steam seems to be
tising. You must pass it; as you do so, you sense
something within the mound. Do yeu walk on and
leave it alone (turn to 329) or do you decade to
investigate (turn to 58)?

178
You lie quietly, thinking that if the storm persists
you will find a better opportunity later. Suddenly m
walks a Mamlik Assassin. He scowls and sniffs at
you, before stabbing his lethal dagger into your
chest. Your quest is over.

179
You crush one sprig of Treffilli (remove one spnx
from your Adventure Sheel and deduct 1 point from
your STAMINA) and mutter the spell ‘By Ash and
Bird.’ The Assassin immediately falls asleep. You
leave him lying there and go through a metal door
that closes tight behind you. Turn to 95.

180-181

180

You walk oyer and help with their running repairs.
Afterwards, the knights offer you a ride in to watch
the joust. They are Yigenik warriors and are head-
ing for the tournament which is to be held in a small
town just outside the city of Sharrabbas, You join
them and they head back on to the road. When a
group of Ores try to stop them ata road-block, they
laugh and simply ride through them. On the road,
one of the knights’ horses stumbles and falls on his
master’s leg. Itis obvious that he cannot now enter
the joust, but the others need a fourth entrant. Do
you decide to enter the tournament (turn to 42) ordo
vou thank them for the ride and carry on, on your
own, when they leave the main road (turn to 4)?

11

You stand proudly before them and announce that
you are one of Segrek‘s Select. They circle round
you and the leader orders one of them ta approach
you. This man dismounts, comes close and throws
some bones to the ground while the others make the
sion of a triangle with their fingertips. He gazes at
the bones then mutters something to the leader,
who urges his horse towards you. ‘lam Gromarshk.
You will accompany us to the Test that awaits you.
Choose your horse.’ Tle has two horses brought
fonvard. Which do you choose to ride: the white
stallion (turn to 290) or the grey mare (turn to 41)?
182-184

182
You agree to take him on, and he stands there,
determined to have his money in advance. You get
out your bag of gold coins. when suddenly another
small boy runs past you and grabs it; they both
disappear into the crowd, Deduct all the gold coins
you have, except your lucky piece. Turn to 318.

183
You tell your tale, then you can only watch as 4
wizened old man ona pony trots up to you, stanng
into a crystal. “Huh, he lies!’ he snorts. Bhoriss takes
a club and hits you on the shoulder so that you fall
down (deduct 1 point from your STAMINA}. “Now,
tell the truth, No one liés to the Bogornils.’ furn to

gi.
184

You have chosen the wrong Medallion! lest your
Lick. If you are Unlucky, the fiery power of the
magic frizzles you up - . . your questis over. If you
are Lucky, you manage to divert the full blast— but
you are blown actoss the Spell-plane to another part
of the Maze (deduct 4 points from your STAMINA. 1
point from your $kILL and mark off 2 Poison unit
on the Adventure Sheet), Turn to 293.

185-186

185

You are ina horse-trader’s premises. There is no one
about, so you take a good look around. You find a
document, closing a deal with Chingiz to mount an
army of Orcs to subdue the native Kazanids- Just
then a fat rat waddles towards you. As you step
back its shape changes to a black mist and then to
that of a Necromancer. Before you can move, his
Staff emits snake-like coils that encircle vou and
form a net that begins to squeeze. You black out.
Turn ty 322-

186

You enter a room full of stone blocks and snake
carvings. Three snakes on three of the stone blocks
suddenly come to life. At the same time, the room is
filled with boiling-hot water, and you are forced ta
Jump up on to one of the blocks. You must make
your way, stepping from block to block, across the
room to the door. Throw 1 die three times for the
locations of the snakes, then throw 1 die three times
for your leaps across from stone to stone. If any of
the numbers in the two sequences match, you land
on 2 block containing one or more snakes and are
bitten; deduct 4 points from your sTAMINA and
mark off 1 Poison unit for every snake-bite you
incur. If you survive, turn to 359.
187-188

4

You are justin time to sat Orc disappearing into
the tower opposite. In front of vou, however, is a
narrow bridge to which a Goblin is clinging, ready
to stab you. Below, Kazanids from Chingiz's slave-
guard are firing arrows at you. You rush over the
bridge. Test your Luck. Lf you are Unlucky, the
Goblin stabs you in the foot. Deduct 3 points from
your sTAwIN« and mark off 2 Poison units. If you
are Lucky, he misses. Throw 2 dice for the speed of
the Orc you are chasing, then throw 2 dice for your
own speed. If your speed is greater than or equal to
the speed of the Orc, turn to 94. If you are not fast
enough, you watch, frustrated, as a Grypvulture
takes off with the Medallion in its beak. You are toa
late.

You return to the street and leave the town. Do you
wish to head down into the forested valley (turn to
257) or up on to a mountain track (turn ta 275}?

188
The Eagle holds an iron rod which Geronicus invites
you to hold on to. The huge bird flaps its wings and
ts you up. It flies fast and high until vour arms tire
(deducts paint from yourSTAMIN A} and you askto
be put down on a path below. Tum to 278.

189—190

189

If you have paid for your passage, you havea good
rest (add 4 points ta yoursTAMINA). Ifyou havenot
paid for your passage, you are made te work hard
scrubbing decks. You pass a group of sailors who
are pointing at something flying out from the coast.
You look closely: two fire-breathing Kazilik Dragons
are flying towards the ship. There is a large cross-
bow mounted at either end of the ship and vou
decide to help fight them off. Do you decide to man
one of the crossbows (turn to 204) or do you climb
up to the crow’s nest with your sword at the ready
(turn to 313)?

190

The tunnel is very long. By the side of a blazing
tarch you see a row of three carved medallions with
a cross inscribed under the third one from the left.
You trudge on wearily until you come across a bush
with sprigs made up of triangular leaves set in 4
circular pattern. Above it is carved the legend
"T'reffilli’, Do you pick any of the sprigs (turn to 248)
or do you leave the bush alone and pass through the
next door (turn to 393)?

1g1—192

191
You throw down your gauntlet and everyone stares
at you in disbelief. The riders wager among them-
selves on how long you will last. Urgenj appears; he
towets above you and caries a sword that you could
never hope te lift. Fight until the sTAMINA of one of

you drops to 4 points.

URGEN] SKILL LO

If you lose, you are on your last legs, but no death-
blow is struck. If you win, you spare the warrior
from death. Turn to 31.

STAMINA 12

192
Nonchalantly you carry on walking as the rider gets
nearer. Eventually a cloaked figure on a steaming
horse passes you and then stops, ‘Who are you,
stranger?’ asks a woman’s voice. You are debating
in your mind whether or not to trust her when you
spot a Dagger of Darkness revealed by a sudden
gust of wind that blows aside her cloak. She realizes
that you've seen the weapon, scowls and gallops
off. Now you will have to decide whether to stay on
the road (turn to 53) or travel on the plain (turn to

333)?
193-194

193
You are in a smoke-filled room. Through the haze,
you dimly make outa fully armed warrior. You step
forward and he springs to life.

MAZE WARRIOR SKILL F

If you win, retum to 160 and throw the magic die to
continue.

STAMINA G

The galloping horse does not stop, but continues to
charge. Fear overwhelms you (deduct 1 point from
your STAMINA). Then it passes straight through
you! You realize that itis only an illusion, and you
continue north through another door. Turn to 349.

195-196

195

You play dead. The wooden hand of the Kalamite
closes around vou and lifts you up a little way. The
temptation to move is great but the female warriar’s
eyes implore vou to keep completely still. Suddenly
she leaps up and strikes out at the hand of the
creature, cutting the hand off in one blow. From
high above comes a distant scream, as a thick sappy
liquid oozes from the severed limb. You are free-
You run after the sure-footed warnior as she weaves
in and out among the tall reeds. Eventually she
stops; you are exhausted (mark off 1 Poison unit),
but she is not even out of breath. All at once she
announces that she knows you are one of Segrck’s
Select and that she has something to tell you -- butit
is up to you to trust her. Do you decide to stay and
hear her out (furn te 4g) or would you rather bid her
a hasty farewell and carry on alone, until you find
somewhere to rest (turn to 399)?

196
Walking along the corridor, you notice the words
‘GOLD COING carved on the wall. On the floor
below the legend is a small bag that contains 5 gold
coins. You pick these up (add them to your Adven-
ture Sheet). You go through another door. Turn to
72.

197

197

You ride the Fangtigers at the head of the yelling
horde, Beshbalik at your side. During your pro-
gress, you come upon an Orc road-block: a large
group of them are subjecting several individuals to
the test of the Crystal. Beshbalik and his Marauders
take no notice of shouted orders to stop; they
plough through the Orcs, divesting them of yarious
pieces of armour and their weapons. You get your
first view of Sharrabbas when the horde finally
stops. Adana-Broussah takes you to one side. ‘Besh-
balik will not enter Sharrabbas,’ she confides. “He
knows that Chingiz is tog powerful there. You have
breached the first blockade, now you must travel on
your own, Astragal entreats you to seek out the
Wolfsbane, I know not what he means.’ When the
horde sets off again, they take a different route,
away from the city; you drop back and jump off the
Fangtigers. When all is quiet once more, you have to
decide whether to stay on the road (turn to 85) or
take to the rough, swooded ground and follow the
less Obvious paths (turn to 167).

You leave the Dead Man’s Chest Tavern and walk
straight into another Goblin who is leading two
Ores down the small back alleyway. He stops,
points at you and screams in guttural Goblin style —
and the Orcs leap to attack you. Fight each Orc in
tun.

SKILL STAMINA
First ORC a 6
Second ORC 7 6

If you survive, you can see no trace of the Goblin.
You leave the alleyway and round a comer into the
main street. You feel a distinct throb from the
poison in your blood (mark off 2 Poison units}. Turn
to 168.

199

Taking the Medallion, you replace it with a bag
containing 10 gold coins (deduct the gold from your
Adventure Sheet). You hold your breath, but nothing
untoward happens. You have chosen the correct
weight! Add z point to your Luck, You look careful-
ly at the back of the Medallion and sce that it is
marked with the number ‘1000’, You stumble out of
the Maze and into the daylight. Turn to 295,
200

200

Adana-Broussah leads the wav to the camp of Besh-
balik’s Marauders. ‘The path to Sharrabbas is full of
dangers,’ she says. ‘One way will be to go as one af
the horde, Ther are always picking up lone adven-
turers who can prove themselves.’ You reach the
camp, where you find the Marauders huddled
round 2 camp fire. They are suspicious of you at
first, but Adana-Broussah calms them and proposes
that you be tested. They discuss the idea fora while
and finally agree. You are thrown a large club and
then, without warning, two of them attack you-
Fight each in fim until the sTAMINA of cither
combatant drops to 4.

SKILL STAMINA
First MARAUDER - R
Second MARAUDER 8 8

If you win (mark off 1 Poison unit on the Adventire
Sieet), you are accepted (turn to 138}. If you lose,
you are taken away and left at a lonely roadside
(turn to £16).

201-202

201

You stand, your sword raised, ready to hold your
ground, At first the Orcs are chary of attacking until
a peremptory scream, emitted by the remaining
mounted figure, makes them shudder and impels
their attack. Fight each Orc in turn.

SKILL STAMINA
First ORC 6 5
Second ORC 5 5
Third ORC 7 6

If you survive (mark off 2 Poison units on the
Adventure Sheet), you suddenly become aware of a
distinct draught, and you catch a gleam of daylight
at the back of the cave. Do you decide to try and find
a rear exil (turn to 44) or would you prefer to go out
by the way you entered (turn to 34)?

202

Deciding to take no chances, you lie flat out in the
grass with your cloak over you. You hear the rider
pass by, then stop. After a short time you hear the
horse trotting away. You get up, with no idea
whether or not the rider saw you. Do you wish to
carry on along the road (turn to 53) or do you prefer
to keep off the road and travel on the plain (turn to

333)?

203—204

203
You know that this fightis not yours and that you
must conserve your energies for greater things. You
steal away and pass a shadowy figure thatis looking
in another direction.

You walk for many hours; the ground begins to
slope down and now vou can see more trees and
bushes. Eventually, with daylight, you find your-
self walking on a track. After a lew hours, this track
forks, becoming two well-made paths. Beside one
path stands an obelisk with a stallion carved on its
side; an obelisk with a Fangtiger stands beside the
other. Which way do vou choose to follow: the way
of the Stallion (tur to 391) or the way of the Tiger
(lurn to 20g)?

204
Both the Kazilik Dragons are small, but they are
breathing fire in the direction of the ship. You take
up position and swing the crossbow, aiming at the
leading beast which is heading straight for vou.

Throw 1 die for the position of the Dragon, then
throw 1 die for yourshot. lf the hyonumbers match,
you have hit the creature. Turn to 16. If you miss,
then it’s too late for a second shot. You are en-
veloped in white-hot fire and fall into the sea (de-
duct 4 points from your sTAMINa). Near exhaus-
ton, you swim towards the coast (mark off 2 Poison
units on the Adventure Sheet). Turn to 348.
205

205

You walk on slowly. Suddenly a doorin front of you
swings open and out charges a long-horned bull. It
lunges and heaves its huge head at you. Test your
Luck. If you are Unlucky, one of its horns smashes
through your armour and breaks several ribs (de-
duct 4 points from your STAMINA and mark off 2
Poison units). If you are Lucky, the bull lifts vou
between its homs. It then rushes off, with you lying
across its neck. You manage to pull out your sword
as it mans straight through the next wall and
emerges in another part of the Maze. At last you are
able ta plunge your sword between its shoulder-
blades. The bull collapses to its knees, then dis
appears with a foul stench into the ground. You
look around and find a solitary door which you
must push apen. Turn to 95.

206-207

206

The huntresses all line up as their leader, Omor-
phina by name, explains the task. You must cut
three logs and a taut piece of leather below them,
before a candle has burnt through a piece of twine
and released a spray of poisonous darts. She seems
to relish giving the explanation and the agonizing
death you can expect.

Throw 2 dice; this is the time it will take the candle to
burn through the twine. Throw 2 dice; this is the
time it will take you to cut through the three logs. If
your axe-wielding time is equal to or less than the
time it takes the twine to break, then you are suc
cessful. You are bound once again and taken toa hutt
which is already occupied by another prisoner, an
old woman dressed in rags. Turn tu 303- If you fail,
there is a great cheer as you are peppered with
darts. You die an agonizing death.

207

You can see an exit to the south and one to the east.
To the south you can hear a crashing sound. To the
east you see flashes of colour. Which way will you
go: south (fur to 66) or east (turn to 283)?
208—209

208

Walking down a dark lane, you step on something
shiny. You stop to look and pick up a Dagger of
Darkness, just like the one you hope to return to
Chingiz’s hand. Suddenly, the dagger bends and
wraps itself around your wrists, and a Necromancer
rises out of the dust in front of you- “One of the
virtuous Select, I see. My Lord Chingiz wants to
meet you before you die. You have survived longer
than we expected.’ He stretches out a long bony
finger and touches your forehead. You lose con-
scigusness as you feel the poison throb in your body
(mark off 2 Poison units). Tum to 323-

209
The track leads down into a forested valley. Soon
the trees blot out the sun and you have to stumble
through a murky gloom. Feeling tired, you stop for
a test and some sleep (add 4 points to your
STAMINAJ.

_ When you awaken, you are covered in leaves. as
ing up, you see a little imp running off with ¥
bonts. You get up and give chase across the crest
floor of fallen pine-needles (deduct 1 point from
your STAMINA). Eventually the Imp drops the
boots and disappears up a tree. Do you put your
boots on straight away (turn to 114) ordo you deade
to run across the prickly ground with them in your
hand {tum to 33)?

210

210

You relax a5 Alkis recounts tales from the deep, dark
chasms. All at once, he stands up and pulls out his
sword, as a horde of warriors bursts into the inn.
Heavy, weighted nets are thrown in which you
manage to entangle yourself. Suddenly you are hit
over the head (deduct 1 point from your sTa MIN A)
and lose consciousness.

You come to in a cart, tied up with many others.
Feeling about, you realize that all your possessions
are still with you. There is no sign of Fearslicer, The
cart is followed by riders and at one point you hear
them talking: ‘Ave, they'll be fine for the Korkut
Slave Battalions. That one even has his own sword.’

The journey is long. Eventually you reach the land
of Korkut and are forced to climb down from the
cart. Dismounting, one of the riders stands before
you and shouts: ‘You are all battle-slaves now ~ but
if you wish to fight for your freedom, choose now
and you may fight Urgenj.’ Do you elect to fight for
your freedom (tum to 191), or dp you reveal to your
captors that you are one of Segrek’s Select (turn to
385)?

211-212

21%

You draw your sword. The riders are pleased that
you have chosen this course of action; they form 2
circle and prepare to enjoy some good sport. The
Yigenik scimitar-wielder spits, makes the sign of a
triangle, then bears down on you.

YIGENIK RIDER

If you win (mark off 1 Poison unit on the Adventure
Sheet), you are told by the other riders that you are
free to go, in spite of having killed one of their
number. They ride off, screaming and bellowing
their enjoyment of the recent fight. Turn to 48.

SKILL 7 STAMINA 8

212
You throw open the left-hand door. Behind it is =
Dark Elf holding a dagger. He stabs you (deduct 4
points from your sTAMINA). Nevertheless, you
attack.

DARK ELF

If you win (mark off2 Poison units on the Adnenture
Sheet), you race through the right-hand door. Turn
lo 187,

sxiii 8 STAMINA 6

213-214

24
You come upon a stall Hoa stsa Test of Strength
and Bravery’. ffinvolves hitting a lever thai shoots a
wooden block up 4 pole. If you get it to the top, the
block rings a bell and also releases a shower of
Jaygers. You have to ring the bell and then jump
clear of the area before the weapons land. The prize
is 10 gold coins. Do rou want to risk entering this
test (turn to 275) or do you prefer wandering about
the market (furn to 344)?

214

You know that running is the most sensible option;
your questis too important for distractions. You run
fast; the poison in your blood makes your legs throb
imark off 2 Poison units}. You continue climbing
through the long night, until after sunrise, when
you find a pathway (burn to 275)-

215-216

215

You walk northwards, suspicious of the woman.
She is surrounded by a pile of rubble on the ground,
2s if she has fallen through the roof. Suddenly she
Stirs. You get nearer and she begs you tohelp, Then
you notice that half her face has peeled off, to reveal
the demonic visage of a Mamlik Assassin. The
Assassin realizes that his disguise has been torn
away and leaps to the attack.

MAMLIK ASSASSIN sxtrt8& STAMINA 10

if you win (mark off 2 Poison units on the Adventure
Skeet), you walk on past an elaborately carved wall
with the word TEN’ inscribed on its centre. You go
through a door that shuts behind you. Turn to 64.

216
You continue to wait until the door crashes open
and two killer Ogres rush in, swinging double
headed axes. Fight each Ogre in turn.

SKILL STAMINA
First OGRE 3 10
Second OGRE ba 10

if you win (mark off 2 Poison units on the Adventure
Sheet), you dash out, but by this fime there ts no sign
of Vetch. You are not sure where you are. Do you
venture down a dark lane straight away (turn ta271)
or enter a larger, busier street to your left {turn to
328)?
217-218

217

You wonn your way out through the large hole. You
are now in the open, away from the town. Beyond a
low hillock, you can see smoke rising and hear the
sound of battering-rams smashing the Maze. You
can alsa make out screams and orders shouted in
guttural Orc accents, and you suess that the Cruz
are defending their Maze stoutly. You creep away
and in a small hollaw you come across a bored-
looking Orc guarding the raiding party's horses. Do
you attack the Orc in order to take one of the horses
{turn to 331) or creep past (turn to 21)?

218

You listen for the footsteps to stop, but, as soon as
you are ready to follow, without warming a shadow
appears in front of you. You are astounded as it
takes the form of a dark, shrouded figure holding =
staff. li speaks in a hoarse whisper: ‘You are toolate.
The Medallion is taken by my Lord Chingiz’s ser-
vants.’ You strike at the figure, but your sword
passes clean through it. The Necromancer laughs
‘So, you want to play games - . -” Turn to 56.

219-220

24
You are in an empty SS Before you stands a
Fiend who at once begins to rush towards you, If
you hare any flowers in your backpack, you can
present one of them to the Fiend (make the
appropriate adjustment on vour Adventure Sheet)_ If
you have no flowers, you will have to fight.

MAZE FIEND

if you win, or if you have bribed the Fiend with
Howers, return to 160 and throw the magic die far
your next position. .

SKILL 6 STAMINA $

220

The horse-trader invites you into the shack. You ask
him the cost of hiring a sturdy steed. He fusses
around and cannot seem to make up his mind. He
tells you to wait while he consults his partner. Do
you sit down on a bench and wait (turn to 14) or do
you get suspicious and leave (turn to 388}?
221-223

224

Tunnels open up to the north and west. To the
north, in ‘a glimmer of daylight you see what
appears to be a body Iving in the middle of the path.
To the west is a figure standing stock-still. Which
lunnel do you choose: north (tum to 351) or west
(turn to 268)?

222

You leave the poor demented wretch and walk on
carefully alone. Suddenly the floor beneath you
gives way and vou drop on toa bed of spiked stakes
where you die instantly. Your quest is over.

223
You enter anather chamber, this one full oi carvings
of birds. You look on, astounded, as two Greveagles
of Kazan come to life and attack you. Fight each in
turn.

SKILL STAMINA
First GREYEAGLE 6 31
Second GREYEAGLE 6 11

I{vou survive, you have a choice of hwo more doors
Do you choose the door on the night (tum to 254) or
the door on the Jeft (turn to 186)?

You have rightly been wary of anyone you may
have metin this land; but itis obvious that he knows
that what you told him was a pack of lies, He thanks
you politely and crosses the bridge. When he is
safely across, it collapses. You suspect Goblin Spell-
casting. You cast around until you find another
path, one that leads down the I/khan mountains,
Turn to 278-

225

The path is long and the way arduous. Stopping for
2 moment to geta stone out of your boot, you shake
the stone out, only to discover it is a Yellow Gem
(mark the Gem on your Adventure Sheet), By sheer
chance (add 1 point to your LUCK}, your path leads
to a stone hut with a dirty sign tacked above it:
‘Honest Gimerak’s Trading Post’. Do you choase to
go inside in order to trade something (turn to 12) or
do you prefer to carry on along the road {turn to
392)?
226-227

226

You step on to the perilous bridge of snow and walk
hesitantly across. Throw 2 dice for your weight,
and add 2 if you are carrying more than 10 gold
coins. Throw 2 dice for the strength of the bridge. If
your weight is greater than the strength of the
bridge, it collapses and you fall to your doom in the
snowy chasm. lf your weight is less than or equal to
the strength of the bridge, you cross safely. Turn to
310,

227
The pain in your shoulder is agonizing. Suddenly
an arrow flies past the bird, followed by another.
Drukkah must be firing at the bird! A third arrow
slams into the Grypvulture’s wing and it plummets
out of control, releasing its hold on you- Luckily,
you land on your back in stagnant waler (add :
point to your LUCK). You pick yourself up but can
see nothing but reeds surrounding the pond. Turn
to 322.

228-229

228

You dislodge the true Medallion of the Unuz from
the wall. You examine it carefully and see the num-
ber “1000 iInscom@bed on the reverse of the Medallion.
Suddenly the figure of Agellatha appears and
speaks. “Your efforts have been crowned with suc-
cess. Now you must find the true path out of the
Maze” The vision fades. At that moment, some-
thing drops from the ceiling on to your back; it is a
Mamlik Assassin, his dagger raised, ready to strike.
Luckily, the dagger fails to penetrate your armour; it
glances off and breaks; meanwhile you roll over and
throw the Assassin off. if you have some Treffilli
and know how to use it, you can now feel it vibrat-
mg. Lf you wish to use it in order to escape, turn to
179. Otherwise, you will have to fight.

MAMLIK ASSASSIN skKILLgQ STAMINA 10

f you win {mark off 2 Poison units on the Adventure
Sieet}, you tush through a metal door that slams
shut behind you. Turn to 95.

229
The mist seems to covereverything. Ahead, vou can
just make out three shadowy figures. They get
closer and vou see a Necromancer with two Mam-
iks. Do you dive into the water (tum to 32) or rush
back tu the boat (turn to 51)?
230-231

230

You lose yourself in the crowd but keep a wary eye
on the Necromancer. A Mamlk appears, throws off
the guise of a beggar, and shakes his head, The
Necromancer goes into 2 towering rage. ‘J know
there is one of them here, Il can smell the purity, I
will Kill them all! She sinkes the ground with her
staff; vou feel the earth tremble and then you hear
the noise of rushing water. A great tidal wave
crashes through the crowd and sweeps up every- ©
body. You find it difficult to swim as you are swept
away through the river valley. Throw 2 dice for the
strength you need to swim to safety, then compare
this with your STAMINA. If your STAMINA is
greater than or equal to the strength needed, you
make it to safety, vet out of the torrent and dry
yourself off (deduct 2 points fram your sta MINA).
You set off again and soon find a road. ‘Turn Lo 23,

If your STAMINA Is less than the strength you need
to swim ashore, you are dragged under by the
weight of your sopping-wet clothing and you
drown. Your quest ends here.

231
You stand in a room with water trickling down its
walls. In frontof you is a large staircase, and you feel
compelled to climb it. Tur to 382 and mark your
new position on the chart.
232-233

2

You walk along the ae to the sound of echoing
footsteps. Ahead, you can see a large number of
metal spikes on the roof of the tunnel. If you wish to
retrace your steps back to the tunnel going north,
then tum fo 305, If you decide to continue, the
tunnel turns a corner and you head north. Sud-
denty, the spikes begin to break off and drive into
ihe ground. Test your Luck twice. Hf you are Unlucky,

you are hit by a spike (deduct 4 points from your
STAMINA, i point from your SKILL and mark off 1
Paison unit). If you are Lucky, you make it safely to
the next door. You go through the door and it shuts
behind you, Turn to 200,

233
You stoop down to pick up a scroll. It falls apart in
your hand. At the same time, you hear a sigh
coming from the body as it also begins to disinte-
grate. All the objects lying around disappear in
clouds of pungent, yellow smoke. The snow begins
to fall heavily, and you know that vou cannot stay
there much longer. There are two distinct paths that
lead away from Drago’s Gate. Will vou take the one
on the left (turn to 177) or the one on the right (tum

to 324)?

234-235

2

You have no way of orohiE or controlling the
plank-sled as it hurtles ever downwards. Eventu-
ally, however, you crash into a grassy bank at the
bottom. A Kazanid is standing in front of you,
holding a spear. He picks up the plank, puts itona
cart with a pile of others and then starts moaning to
you. ‘Somebody just kicked one of the tobaks down °
the chute. I'm not saving you did it — but it’s
dangerous standing here collecting tobaks all day
long... Hey, who are you?’ You draw your sword
and step towards him. At this threatening gesture,
he faints, so you make good your escape into the
grassland. The land here is flatter and more open.
The path you are following divides. Which way do
you take: the left fork (turn to 379) or the nght
fork {turn to 122}?

235

You walk carefully towards the obelisk. It is intri-
cately carved with galloping horses — and there, on
the top, you see the Medallicm! You examine the
area carefully, fearing one last test. There are holes
in the ground and in the walls; peering into the
holes, you can see arrowheads poking out. You
suspect that itis the weight of the Medallion that is
keeping the arrows from firing, and you will have to
replace it with exactly the equivale nt w echt. If you
have sufficient gold coins, how much do you think
the Medallion weighs; 5 gold coins (furn to 367) or 10
gold coins (turn to199)? If vou have no gold coins, or
you just wish to grab the Medallion, turn to 291-
236-238

236

You walk along the tunnel and notce some odd-
looking holes in the walls. Suddenly a small hurry
creature rolls out of one of the holes. You watch it
carefully as it stretches itself and begins to purr; it
looks very sweet. Do you decide to stroke it (turn to
113) or, opting for discretion rather than valour, do
vou avoid it (turn to 362)?

_-*

237

You hold the Grey Talon tight. A ghost figure of the
hawk flutters on to your shoulder. All else is still
and time has no meaning. The bird speaks in your
ear in a chirruping squatwk:; ‘See the pattern | stand
on, there, is the secret far the true path through the
Maze, The top is the entrance to the north, and
the bottom is the exit to the south. Follow the tme
path and you shall have the Medallion.’ The spirit of
the hawk returns tu its body, and you walk towards
the entrance. Turn to 366.

238

You drink deeply fram'the cool, sweet water. You
fee] refreshed and in good heart for the tasks and
perils to come {add 4 points to your STAMINA and
do mo! mark off the next Poison unit you Come to).
You push the door apen and enter, it doses behind
you with a strone thud. Turn to 292.

ee Oo sll

239-241

239
You walk down to the harbour. You see a ship that

seems to be ready to set sail. Kazanid sailors,
thieves, beggars, Dwarfs, and all manner of folk are
milling round it. Youaska passer-by where the ship
is bound and he replies: “The Dragon coast of Kazi-
lik.” You know that the Kazilik possess a Maze and
that they have a Medallion. Do you wish to ask
about getting passage on the ship (turn to 128) or do
you carry on along the harbour (turn to 339)?

240
You walk purposefully along the corridor and then
notice two blocks of stone with dice-markings, sus-
pended from the ceiling. As you pass, they fall to
the sround. Throw 2 dice_ If you throw 9-12, add 1
point to your ruck. In front of a door before you,
you observe the word ‘WEIGHS’ carved on the wall.
You push open the door and it shuts behind you. |
Turn fo 349.

241
You allow the old woman to gloat over her treasure-
chest, Finally, she whispers a spell and a galden
snake rises out of the chest. Crooniny to it, she
strokes its head and slips it into her pocket. Then
she hands you 15 gold coms (mark the coins on your
Adventure Sheet), and makes the following speech:
“You have helped me, brave adventurer; now I may
be of help to you. | am the repository of many
secrets, what do you wish to knaw?’ You decide tu
reveal to her some details of your quest for the
241-242

throne. “Ah, Segrek’s Select, you are in great dan-
ger. Chingiz is overturning the great traditions. Io
achieve ultimate success, you mus? seck the Medal-
lions. Follow this path to Uniz. When you stand
before the entrance to the great Maze. look to the
tup left for the pattern that is the ker to the Maze.
Remember, you nist enter irom the top or the
north. T know the Maze well, for I helped fashion it
when ! was young, and my powers then were keen.’
Without another word she picks up the chest and
disappears down the path.

You set off in the opposite direction. The path you
are taking is difficult and rough; to your left lies an
easier, flatter route that leads in the direction of
some birds circling in the sky. Do you take the
left-hand path (turn to 115) or keep on the path
indicated by the old woman (turn to 161)?

242
You do not think it wise to enter without frst

checking where you are, so you edge along the wall.
Suddenty you feel a coldness in your bones and the
mist swirls apart to reveal a Necromancer. if you
have not achieved Necromancer fighting ability.
you are immediately put under a spell. You cannot
see, hear, or touch and your quest ends here.

If you have the ability to fight Necromancers, use
the level you reached as your sKiLt score for this
combat.

NECROMANCER SKILL Q STAMINA S

242-244

if you win {mark off 2 Poison units on the Adventure
Skeet), you decide after all to zo back and jump in
through the window. Turn to 174.

243

Adana-Broussah throws a startled glance in your
direction as the Necromancer announces that there
is one in the horde whom he wants and is willing to
pay dearly for, Beshbalik is tempied by the bag of
sold held up by the evil creature, Adana-Broussah
tells you to make yourself scarce. Do you ride off
(turn to 60) or do you have, and know how to use,
hyo sprigs of Treffilli te make yourself invisible
(burn t) 10)?

244
You drop like a lead weight fom the tower. Sud-
denly, a strange force surges out of ihe stone; it has
the likeness of a great hand that catches you and
draws you safely te an overhanging stone block.
You cannot understand how or why this has hap-
pened (add 1 pot to your Luck). Turn to 381.
245-247

245
You continue on the upward path for a long time, It

is difficult and partially blocked here and there with
landslides and minor avalanches. Eventually vou
come to a great icy chasm. On the farsideisa raised
drawbridge, guarded by what looks like an ice
watmor. Ruithies scrutiny reveals an obelisk with a
hole in the top of it: obviously you have to throw
something into the hole to get the bridge to lower. If
you have a metal ball, turn to 315. Otherwise, there
is no way across the chasm. You will have to turn
back and waste time going down the mountain and
into the forest: mark-off 2 Poison units, deduct 4
poinis from your STAMINA and tum to 88.

246

You enter a smithy. The first thing you see is asmall
Dwarf crouched, shivering, in the comer. Then you
motice a Mamlik and two Orcs who are trying Lo
listen to something through one of the house-wwalls.
They do not sense vou, and the Dwarf motions for
you to get out quick. You go back into the street.
Turn to g8.

247
You stand in a room that has stone walls full of small

niches. The floor is covered with little darts and the
skeletons of three human beings are lying on the
ground. Suddenly little poisoned darts shaot out
through the holes in the walls. Test your Luck. you
are Lucky, you are hit only once (deduct 1 point
from your STAMEN A). I you are Unlucky, throw 2
247-249

dice and deduct the resulting total from your sTa-
MINA. Mark off 1 Poison unit. If you are still alive,
return to 160 and throw the magic die to determine
where you go next.

248
You carefully pick three sprigs —and the plant then
begins to wither and die. Add the sprigs to your
Adwiifure Sheet, You enter another door which seals
tight behind you. Turn tn 393-

249

Flaxwort turns to the right and, after a short dis-
tance, drops you off and wishes you good luck. You
lind yourself in a small square that is teeming with
people, Just then you see two Dwarfs being force-
marched to the centre of the square and chained up
by four Orcs. From what you overhear in the crowd,
this is one of their regular executions held for dis-
loyalty. Next a horn is sounded, and three Gar-
goyles swoop down from the tower above. They
tear the first Dwarf to pieces but, in so doing, they
accidentally break the bonds of the second. He
hares off into the crowd and passes close to you,
with one of the Orcs in hot pursuit. Do you want to
help the Dwarf (tur to 6) or do you keep a low
profile and walk away (turn to 208)?

250-251

250
The riders line up in front of you. Wha are you,
stranger? Why do you not bow to your Yigenik
masters? You forfeit your life if you do not speak.”
One of them dismounts and, drawing a scimitar,
makes several cuts in the air with it. ‘Bow down,
slave. Your life is mine.” Do you speak up and tell
them that you are one of Segrek’s Select (turn to
182}, bow down and mutely take the consequences
(turn to 304), or prepare to ight the wamior (turn to
211)?

251
You stay in the middle of the group of Marauders,
knowing that there will be a confusion of smells-
The Mamlik passes by you, and returns to Besh-
balik. They start an argument, but eventually the
Mamlik, fuming, rides off on his black steed. Turn

10 319.
252-253

252

You have to pass clase by hwo Orcs who are sitting
ona tock, The falling snow has built up into two
pointed cones on their heads. They are eating
strange yellow fruil and spitting out the pips, bet-
ing on which of them can spit the pips the furthest.

They igmore you, so you decide ty stroll quietly past
them. Just then one of them spots you and calls out:
‘Hey you, come over here.’ You go over to them and
they explain that they want you to stand ten paces
away so that they can have a competition to find oul
which will be the first to land a pip on your hat. Dp
you agree to do this (turn to 24) orda vou draw your
sivord and attack them (turn to 320)?

253

He rubs his hands gleefully as.you count out the
money (deduct 5 coins from your Adventure Sheet).

Then he leads you to a stone hut that is well pro-
tected against the elements, with windows that are
all heavily barred. Inside, it is warm and cosy. ‘I
think that you are one of the Select,’ he tells Fou,

hugely pleased al his own cleyemess. ‘Chingiz
wants Lo kill you, but T know the secret of the Maze
at Boxamil. . . yes, vou must have a medallion.’ He
stops talking and then looks at you, as though for
the first time, ‘l will tell you - .. when first you
enter, turn west, then north, then west, and soon
until you get out. It’s simple.” He seems vastly
satisfied with himself and asks you if you wish to
rest. You may rest in the hut (tum to 84) or, if vou
prefer, go out straight away (turn to 15e)-

|

254-255

254

You are in a room filled with the statues of stallions,
Suddenly three of them come to life; they stamp
their feet and snort, crashing their hoofs down on
the stone floor. Throw 1 die six times fo show the
path you take between the stallions. List the result
on your Adventure Sheef. Then throw 1 die to show
where the stallions stamp. If this number matches
the first number in the sequence you have written
down, you are hit (deduct 4 points from your
STAMINA). Repeat the process five more times and
compare throws. If you survive, you succeed in
reaching another door. Turn to 359-

255
The crowd on the road spills out into the market-

place of the small town of Torrez. Here are game-
sters, jugglers and acrobats, as well as market stalls,
if you are carrying any gold, you feel for your purse.
It has gone! Someone has stolen all your gold except
the coin that you sensibly keep in your bovt. Deduct
all gold coins but 1 from your Adventure Sheet.

You take out your one coin, knowing that you will
need gold in order to succeed in your quest. You
wander sound the market in a daze. Do you go to
the left (furn to 107) or do you go righi {turn to 213}?
256—258

256

Geronicus hands you the phial, which you drink
while they lead you through various back-streets
to the Fortress, You feel a stabbing pam in your
shoulderas youare pulled against your will towards
a sheer rock-face. You pass through the rock, but
when you reach the other side you fall to your knees
in agony (deduct 2 points from your STAMINA, 1
paint from your SKILL and mark of 2 Poison units}.
You realize that something is dreadfully wrong.
Suddenly a Necromancer stands before you, staff in
hand. He speaks to you in a hoarse, rough voice:
Yes, we have found this entrance and tainted it
with the Black Poison of Lisz. Now, proud adyen-
turer, you DIE!’ if you do not have Necromancer
fighting ability, your quest ends here m dreadful
azony and death. If you have the skill to fight the
shadowy beings, turn 10 365.

257
‘Making progress through the forestis very arduous.
You have to cut your way through a mass of under-
prowth (deduct 2 points from your STAMINA). Turn
to 86.

258
You are taken out of the hut. You heara hom bemg
blown, and a crowd gathers, forming a arcie. The
woman, who is called Agellatha, stands in the
middle and raises her hands for silence. Two fierce
black bulls are led in; however, they move as though
they were in a trance. A cord is tied to. the neck of

258-259

each of the bulls; the other ends are looped around
your forearms tightly and the last foot or so of loose
cord hangs from your hands. “You must use all your
strength to pull the two bulls together and tie a Knol
in the two cords,” Agellatha explains. ‘If you fail,
you will be torn asunder.” Throw 3 dice to discover
the strength of the bulls. Throw 2 dice and add the
result to your current STAMINA to find out the
power of your attempt. Your strength must be
greater than that of the bulls for you to succeed. Lf
you fail, your quest ends here, If you succeed, turn
to 28.

259

You sneak out and walk along a corridor. Ahead is
another door that is partly open. You peek in, to see
Vetch with an Ore; they are unchaining a hideous
Gargoyle. The Gargoyle senses your presence,
screams then mushes out after you. You run into a
dead-end, turn and pull out your sword.

GARGOYLE SKILL Q STAMINA 10

lf you win (mark off 1 Poison unit on the Adventure
Sheet}, the others by now have fled, so cautiously
vou leave the building. You now have a choice: a
dark lane which lies in front of you (humm to 277) ora
busier, well-lit street to the left (turn to 328).
260

260
You rush up the staircase, past a small open win-
dow. Just then, you hear the sound of sameone
coming down the stairs, so you decide to climb out
on to the window-ledge. Outside, you finda narrow
walkway and, as you edge along, three Gargoyles
appear and start screaming al you. You try to ward
them off with your sword, but they make such a
noise, fluttering and squawking, that you ate not
surprised to see one of Chingiz’s Kazanid guards
follow you out on to the ledge. He tells you that
being found in this part of the Fortress means you
have - forfeited your life and he pulls out a scimitar-

KAZANID GUARD SKILL? STAMINA 10

if you survive (mark off 1 Poison uniton the Aazen-
ture Sheet), you watch the Gargoyles flutter down
after the body of your opponent, as it falls to the
cliffs below. You cimb back in through the window
and, on hearing some more footsteps, run into
another room and clamber up the wide chimney of
an empty Areplace. Turn to $2-

261-262

261

You find a good place to hide beneath a pile of loose
turfs, and stay there until you think any potential
danger will be past. You feel better aiter the resi
{add 2 points to yours? AMINA), When you get up.
you find yourself surrounded by a group of silent
horsemen, A miserable-looking Orc is chained to
one of the horses and there are Gryphawks circling
above the group. One of the riders moves forvard
and introduces himself formally as Bhoriss Canter-
strike; he demands to know your business ‘in these
lands of the Bogomils’. Do you reveal that you are
one of Segrek’s Select (tum to 93) or do you tell them
you are a travelling merchant (turn to 183)?

262
You stand in a room which contains the corpse of a
Mamlik Assassin. His neck is encircled by a large
snake. Even in death he clutches his deadly dagger
ina grip ofiron. Add i point to yourLucK. Rehirn &)
160 and throw the magic die for your next position.

SS —.

263

263
You approach the Troll warily; his strength is for-

midable. He bows and introduces himself as
Skrutch, of the Vizier’s Own Trollfighter Cohorts,
He stands to attention, salutes and then ruefully has
to admit that he’s lost. ‘I’m due on guard at the
Bogomil road and I'm already late.“ You agree to
accompany him. You are surprised — and pleased —
that he possesses a map. However, he holds it
upside down, and it's obvious that he cannot read.
rhe map is very accurate and you are able to lead
him out of the forest and on to the start of the
Bogormil road. Suddenly, you are confronted by two
Trolls who, on seeing you, pull out their short-
swords. At the same time they hurlabuse at Skrutch
and callout to him to killyou. Do you makea dash to
the night (turn to 8) or do you attempt to escape to
the left (turn to 111)?

264-265

264
Smoke and dust are swirling around you, and
through the haze you can see that large stone blocks
have collapsed from the walls and roof of the Maze.
You hear footsteps approaching and dive behind
same fallen blocks.

‘Captain Snapskull, have you the Medallion?’ The
voice is that of an Orc. “No, sir,” comes the reply,
‘but we have found two of them dead. And there is
another one close by." He sniffs. “Lord Chingiz
wants them all dead,’ says the first voice. “None
must appear at the Fortress with a Medallion: the
power of the Throne is still too strong.”

You see two possible ways out of the cumbling
Maze. Which do you choose: to prise loose a block
on the left (turn to 78} or to scramble through a large
hole straiht ahead (turn to 217)?

265

You stumble around the chamber in the dark
and find another door, It opens easily, then seals
tight behind you. You feel an intense heat and
see a white-hot glow ahead. You are passing the
Cauldron, the force that powers the Heart of the
Throne, You run quickly past the Cauldron. Throw
1 die and deduct the result from your STAMINA
score, You cannot avoid being affected by the in-
tense heat. Mark off 2 Poison units on your Adven-
ture Sheet, You enter another tunnel. Turn to 360.

Pa oe

266

266

The old man does not seem to touch the branches ot
the bushes; they merely part as he passes, You,
however, have to fight your way through. Suddenly
he stops and turns; he has remembered something.
‘Chingiz has summoned the demonic Necro:
mancers, beware of them. Geronicus, er, that’s me,
will help you attain a level of fighting ability against
them. [f you can achieve level six, seven or eight,
you will be able to fight them in the flesh.” Geroni-
cus proceeds to summon up a magical pattern:

&
A 7

(} G 6

EEED ERs
OOOO 4

Ei DEF Ekss

GE Heo Bo 2
sO GBH000 1

You have to stand at A and throw a die as many
times as it takes to reach numbers that denote the
different sxtit levels. Ona throw of 5-6, you move
up one block; ona throw of 2—4, you move one block
tothe night; ona throw of 1, you must deduct 1 point
from your STAMINA, and you do not move. You
may make foo attempts overall, bul must deduct 1
point from your tuck if vou decide ta make the
second attempt. If you reach level six, seven or
eight, mark Necromancer Fighting Skill in the
Abthties Box of your Adventure Sheet.
266-267

Geronicus summons three eagles. Tie tells you that
they will help you find the correci paths in order io
seek the six Medallions Of Kazan. Which bird do
you pick: the Black Eagle (turn to 163), the White
Fagie (turn to 188) or the Golden Eagle (hum to 2)?

267

You main to help. The figure — a woman — sees you
and tries to draw her sword, but she hardly has the
strength puillit out of its scabbard. She lies back and
you offer her 4 mouthful of water. Asshesipsti, you
see that an arrowhead is lodged in her neck and
that her leather armour is scuffed and tom. She
raises her head and speaks in a whisper: ‘1 am
Barabba of the West Moor - . - Imust get to Sharrab-
bas, I am one of the Select of Segrek.’ You see the
pallor of death rising in her face. You try to quieten
her, but she hegins to rave: ‘The Medallion. . . no

. you shall not...“ Then she recovers slightls
and you tell her of your own status. She smiles. ‘4
am done for, ! know. Take the Hulugu Medallion, I
bequeath it ta you,’ From a pockel she takes out the
Medailion and hands it to you. “AtSharrabhas, seek
the Wolfsbane at the Cross Kevs . . . he will -
She shudders, then gasps and diesaa your arms.
You gaze at the Eagle etched on the Medallion; on
the reverse is the number ‘101m. Add 2 points fo
your 1. UcK and list the Medallion on your Adpenture
Sheel. You salute your brave comrade and set off
apuin. Tur to 82.

268-269

268
You head westwards. You get close to the figure,
but stillit does not move; you even poke it with your
sword, bul it seems to be made of rock. Shrugging,

you pass by — then your cars are assaulted by a

strange wailing noise which gets louder and louder
untilitbesins to numb your mind. You pound at the
Agure with the flat of your sword, and that seems to
have some effect in lessening the racket. Fight the
Screecher as in normal combat.

SCREECHER

If you win, the noise stops and you pass through a
door that shuts behind you. Tum to 64-

SKILL 7 STAMINA &

269

The corridor comes toa corner and you peek round,
tose a room filled witha gaggle of Dungeon Beasts.
They scuttle up to you and block your progress. You
cannot fight them all. There is a large open window
to one side of the room. If you have the Power of
Storm-bringing, turn to 47. Otherwise, vou must
turn back and go the other way: turn lo 369.

ti ba
270-271

270
You take hold of the rod. Suddenly, leather thongs
spring out from it and encircle your wrists. You are
unable to let go as the line pulls you down into the
pool. You hold your breath as you are dragged to
the bottom and a strange creature, half-man half-
fish, dives into the water after you. It is an Elkiem!
Quickly vou loosen the thongs but, before you can
reach the surface, the monster grabs you. Deduct 1
point from your SKILL for the duration of this com-
bat only. If you throw double-1 in your Attack
Round, you have drowned.

ELKIEM SKILL F STAMINA 8

If you survive {mark off 1 Poison unit on the Adven-
ture Sheet), vou haul yourself out of the pool and
take a deep breath; then you walk on, shuddering
and shivering. Turn tu.167-.

271
You walk towards the Fortress. The only visible way
in seems to entail climbing a long staircase of stone
steps thal are guarded by a dozen bored-looking
Ores with a Mamlik captain. You know immediately
that you cannot attempt fris route. You look around
and notice 2 woman standing by a tall obelisk and
carrying a large basket of flowers. She waves to you,
Do you approach her (firn to 162) or carry on
looking for another way into the stronghold (turn to
276)?
272-273

272
You find yourself back one the Yigenik. They
have taken care of all the opposition and are now in
the process of stripping their enemies’ bodies of
weapons and valuables. Eventually, the whole
party sets off and rides for a long time until below
you you sec a large settlement in a mountain valley.
Here you are brought before an old woman who
asks you if you feel strong enough to undertake the
Test of the Yigenik. Do you reply that you wish to
undergo the Test (turn to 346) or do you decide to
leave now in order to build up your powers and
abilities {turn to 209)?

273
You continue & the north. In the torchlight, you see

a word carved on the stone wall: "MEDALLION.
You pass a metal grille and breathe in a waft of fresh
air; you feel strangely energetic (add 3 points to your
STAMINA}. You ga through a door that seals behmd
you. Turn to 153.

274-275

274
Thwarted, the Trolls decide to arrest you. You pull
out your sword with one swift move. Tight each
Troll in turn.

SKILL STAMINA
First TROLL 8 9
Second TROLL cS) 10

If you win (mark off 2 Poison units on the Adventure
Sheet), the cart-driver spits in the direction of the
dead bodies, takes back the gold he had been forced
to hand over and offers you a ride on the cart.
“Scum! Chingi2’s lackevs making us pay illegal tolls.
Pray the gods send usa tue ruler soon.’ He looks at
vou sideways, and you believe you can detect a
twinkle in his eye, Turn to 155.

273

The land is very mountainous. The snow has begun
to whip up, and you find the going difficult. The
wind seems to shriek in your ears. You feel very
tired (deduct 2 points from your STAMINA); before
YOU, You see a figure whispering to you to sit and
rest. Do you choose to obey the soothing voice (turn
<0 15) or do you force yourself to go on throussh the
storm (turn to 769)?
276-277
276

You set off behind a cart, trying to look as much as
possible like one of the locals. There are numerous
Orc patrols and you pass the occasional Mamilik.
Suddenly, a small bird lands on your shoulder, then
hops tothe ground and into a quictalley. You follow
it and stare as it scrawls the ‘A’ rune, the sign for
Astragal, in the dirt. You watch in amazementas the
hird proceeds to write a complete message from the
wizard.

*T hope this winged messenger reaches you in time.
If you have not already done so, contact one Man-
drake Wolfsbane and no other. He is usually to be
found smoking a large smelly pipe at the Dragon’s
Wings Tavern — where my absent-minded brother
wizard, Geronicus, will be signalling unceasingly
from its chimney with puffs of smoke.” The bird
then hops over to the message, erases it with its
wings and flies awav.

You stay and rest in the shadows for a few hours,
before selling out to follow the trail of smoky puffs
and find the tavern. Turn to 298-

277
You pass through the remains of the web which
begins to reseal itself almost immediately, just as 2
Giant Spider drops down from the roof behind you.
You tush away from the hideous beast. Turn to

76.

278-279

278

You follow a track that leads towards an open plain,
Oecasionally you pass clumps of trees and bushes,
and you can hear mshing water. The track begins to
get busy with other people: travellers on foot, on
horseback and in carts. Everyone is heading in the
same direction; from what you overhear, it is
markel-day in the local town of Torrez. You merge
into the crowd and feel safe until you see a
road-block ahead. A large vroup of Ores is inspect-
ing everyone who passes. Do you decide to get off
the road (turn to 159) or do you stay and take your
chances with the crowd {turn to 308)?

—-"

27y

You hand over the 10 gold coins (deduct 1» gold
coins from your Adventure Sheet}. The bandit leader
smiles and pockets the money, "Head for the lands
of the Bogomil. This road is the quickest and the
guards upon it are not crack troops. If you pass the
Test, the Maze is not complex: turn west when you
first enter, then north and west alternately, until
you reach the Medallion.” He makes it sound so
simple, but wams that others may be there already:
“The Medallion may already have been taken.’ Add
7 LUCK point and turn to 383.
280-281

280

You syalk along the road to Uruz among a crowd of

Kazanids who are also leaying the fair. Carts pass
the walkers and some offer rides ‘for a price’. You
ask one that stops, Tow much?’ and he replies.
‘Two gold coins.’ If you can afford it, do you agree to
ride on the cart (turn to 364)? If you have no money
or you prefer to walk anyway, turn to 101.

281

Cautiously you make your way along the dustry
corridor. Just as you are turing a corner to the
north, you trip over a skeleton slumped in the
shadows; itis wearing the remains of ancient leather
armour and you Stare as a large worm pops out of
the skull’s eye-socket. Suddenly there is a screech
from aboye you and a tall, pangly creature lands on
your back, knocking you down, You roll away and
pull out your sword in one swift move. The creature
has sword-like arms and long pointed fangs.

LIPESUCKER

If you survive {mark off 2 Poison units on the
Adventure Sheet), you continue north until the
passage turns to the west. You reach an open
metal door and pass through; it dangs shut be-
hind you, Turn to 342.

SKILL 7 STAMINA §

282-284

282

You find yourself in a room that has a Medallion,
etched with a snake motif, strung up in front of
you on a length of fine cord. Suddenly, the
ground beneath you opens up and you fall into
the mouth of a huge Serpent {deduct 2 points
from YOUF STAMINA). Turn to 97 and mark your
Netw position on the chart.

283

You make your way cautiously, but the lights that
até coming from panels in the walls seem to have
little effect on you (deduct 1 point from your
STAMINA). You tum a comer and head souith (de-
duct 2 more points from yoursTaMINA). You begin
to feel weak and realize that the lights are sapping
yourstrength. You run towards the far doar. Throw
2 dice for your speed, then 2 dice for the speed with
which the magic takes effect on you. [f your speedis
equal to or greater than the effect of the magic, you
get safely through the door. Turn to 393. Otherwise,
all your STAMINA is sapped, and you collapse and
die. Your questis over.

284
You have drunk the potion of the exploding death.
Your insides make a conscious decision to leave
your body and you die an agonizing death. Your
quest ends here.
285

285

You open the next door, to ind a woman silting on
the Thrane of Sharrabbas, surrounded by four
chained Ogres. The woman smiles. ‘Welcome,
Orave adventurer. My father and his Mamliks found
you a difficult foe, but you shall not take possession
of the Throne —itis mine! He wouldn't let me haveit,
so | had to kill him. Now, | must kill YOU,’ She
rushes towards vou, dagger raised, You stop her
stm and squeeze her wrist; the dagger drops to the
Hoorand begins to burn. She collapses in a heap and
calls out, ‘Go on then, siton the Throne—and letmy
Ogres tear you limb from limb.’ The Ogres are
suddenly released from their chains and leap for-
ward to attack. Do you fight them (turn to 335) or
put your sword away and walk straight to the
Throne (turn to 154)?

286

The cart creaks along and Drukkeh, the driver,
cloesn't ask you any questions. The trail is long and
he explains that he is heading for a large trading-
post in central Kazan- In the Jong hours he tells vou
tales of when Segrek was strong and the badlands
were well policed, At one point he stops the cart,
stands up and, head cocked to ane side, looks
around the reedy landscape. You follow his ex
ample and draw your sword in readiness. Sud-
denly, two Grypvultures come skimming across the
reeds and attack. Drukkah drops the first with a
swipe; however, you miss, and the huge bird sinks
its claw into your shoulder, lifts you off the cart and
carries you high aver the reeds. Do you msk stab-
bing it {turn to 309) or do you choose to wail forit to
put you down (turn to 227)?

287-288

287

As you tide, Zaranj explains that the Korkut are
strong believers in luck, chance and good and bad
fortune. ‘The Test and the Maze are like no other,
but a strong and brave adventurer attracts pocd
fortune,’ he declaims. Eventually, after a long ride,
you reach the heights above Korkut. You see that
the region is a port, with several ships in the har-
bour. Zaranj leads you through the bwisting streets
to the fortress; here he informs the Elders and
Mages that you aspire to the Throne. There is much
fuss and preparation. You are rested and fed (add 4
points to your STAMINA) and finally you are called
to the Chamber of Chance. ‘Turn to 77.

288

The Goblin has pulled out a large scimitar and
stands his ground. He sneers at you: ‘| know your
smell, you have the scent of the Select. You will die.’

GOBLIN

If you survive, you begin to worry about the bird he
has released; you realize thatit must bea signal. You
decide to make a run for it, Turn to 96,

SKILLS STAMINA S
289-290

+

When you wake up, your first thoughts are for your
belangings. Although you are tied up and cannot
move, you believe that nothing has been taken from
you. A young Kazanid girl enters and iceds you
some nourishing broth (add 1 point to your
STAMINA). Reluctantly, she answers some of your
questions: “Yes, you are wanted by the Lowlanders.
They did say ”’ All who pass towards Sharrabbas, all
lone travellers. " They asked that nothing should be
removed and they are coming for you when the
siorm dies down. The message hawks have been
dispatched.’ Then she leaves, For a precious mo-
ment before the other guards return, you are alone.
Deo you roll over towards the fire and burn off your
bonds (tum to 371) or do you prefer not to risk an
escape attempt yet (turn to 178)?

290

The stallion has a fiery temperament and is difficult
ty ride over the rough ground, You suffer from the
fast pace and, by the ime yau stop tocamp, you are
shattered (deduct 2 poinis from your STAMINA)
Turn ta 372.

291-293

291

You grab the Medallion and are instantly sprayed by
2 yolley of arrows. You stagger along the passage-
Throw 2 die for the number of hits you suffer and
deduct 3 points from your sta MINa for each hit. ii
you survive {mark off 2 Poison units}, you look at
the Medallion: on the reyerse is the number “1100".
You crawl out of the Maze into the bright sunlight,
Turn to 295.

292
You are faced with a choice: a tunnel to the east (turn

to 25) or one to the south (turn to 205). Which route
do you take?

293

You are in a smoky tunnel. Slowly the smoke clears
and you see a black-cloaked figure holding a staff.
He lifts it and strikes the ground. Huye fanged
worms shoot out of the earth and block your way,
You run back up the tunnel as ihe walls begin to
collapse all round you. You are sure that you can
hear chanting over the rumble of collapsing struc:
tures. Turn fo 264.
294-295

294

You scramble ashore and look around. It is very
misty and you cannol see where you are treading,
so you step carefully until you come upon a high
stone wall. You walk along the side of it until you
find an open window- Inside are a lot of phials,
bottles and jars; there are magical paintings on the
walls, and in the middle of the room is a large open
chest, full of jewels, ringsand coins. Do youclimbin
through the window (turn to 174) or carry on along
the side of the wall (turn to 242)?

295

You are standing tn a stone trench; bemused, you
watch a wisp of smoke transform itself into a figure
thal greets you. ‘Brave adventurer, you have tra-
versed the Maze of the Bogomil, a great feat. If you
do not have the Medallion, good luck to you in your
search. If you do have the Medallion, good luck in
your quest for the Throne. Fare thee well” The
fire disappears and you climb out of the trench.
You are in open country. You walk on for many
hours and eventually find a good place to rest. Tum

to 399.

296-297

You join the other labourers, Itis very hard work; it
appears that they are busy rebuilding the outer
defences of the city. It's obvious that Chingiz ex-
pects war from the clans if he becomes the ruler of
Kazan. When the work is done, you are exhausted
(deduct 2 points from your STAMINA, mark off 1
Poison unit and add 2 gold coins on your Advenfure
Sheet). The workers disperse and you carry on walk-
ing. Turn to 359.

oa7,
The path you take leads in the direction of a range
of very high mountains. At one point you see a
possible track leading down into a heavily forested
valley. Which path do you wish to follow: up into
the mountaims (turn to 37) or down into the forest
(furn to 88)?

298
298

The Dragon's Wings Tavern is packed. Several fires
are blazing, but the smokiest comer is that part of
the room where an old man is sitting with a box on
his lap. By his side is another, puffing ata smelly
pipe. You head for the pair of them. If you have nat
met them before, the man with the pipe looks at you
carefully then halds out a small crystal that glows
red. He introduces himself as Mandrake Wolfsbane
and his companion as Geronicus. (lf you have met
the absent-minded Mage before, he does not recog-
nize you naw.)

You sit down and Mandrake begins to brief you.
‘Chingiz has tried to spellbreak the ancient secret
entrances fo the Fortress. Geronicus alone posses-
ses a set of the phials that point the way and open
the hidden gates for the Select. All the others have
been taken by the devilish Necromancers wha are
trying to discover the secrets of the Throne. You are
the last hope of the Kazanids; you must enter the
Fortress, with Medallion or without, and sit on the
Throne, in order to rid us of the evil of Chingiz and
his deadly daughter, Meghan-na-Durr. Now, look
into your heart and choose a phial.’

Which phial do you choose:

The Dagger? Turn to 361
The Half-Moon? Tum to 338
The Cross? Turn to 256

The Holy Triangle? Turn to 124
299-300

299

Captain Sneerblood shows you to a cabin with a
hammock already sling, then gives you four large,
foul-smelling, unbreakable ship‘s biscuits. You get
into the hammock just as the ship begins to heave
and pitch. You decide you are fairly comfortable
(add 1 point to your skt1. and 4 points to your
STAMINA). Turn to 189.

300
You run, looking for good cover, but then see a
Grypvulture swooping down from above. You turn
round, pull out your sword and swipe at the bird.

GRYPVULTURE SKILL 6

If you win, you find that while you have been busy
slaving the Grypvulture, three Orc guards have
caught up with you. Fight each one in turn.

STAMINA S&S

SKILL STAMINA
First ORC 7 -
Second ORC 7 fi
Third ORC 7 6

If you survive {mark off 3 Poison units on the
Adventtire Sheet), you decide to stay off the road and
hide fora while. Turn to 261.

401-302

301

There is no time to roll away, You manage to stay
the assassin’s hand and a ring falls from his gloved
finger. He gives up the struggle and leaps out
through the door, You peer out through the barred
window and see him release a small Gryphawk,

then ride off. You pick up the ring (mark it on your
Adventure Sheet). You cannot find the begwar, so you
20 outside. Tur to 150.

302
You enter a room that has a huge beam suspended
in the middle of it. Above the beam is a glass bow]
containing 10 gold coins. You walk under it. Check
your STAMINA. lfitis an odd number, you upset the
balance and get the coins {add them to your Adiser-
tire Sheet). lf itis an even number, nothing happens,
Return to 160 and throw the magic die.
393

303

The ragged bundle stirs. She is not bound but
appears quite weak. She looks at you and tells vou
that you will be lucky if they decide io kill you
straightaway, ‘The huntresses of Owlshriek believe
that they gain power from inflicting pain and tor-
ture." Suddenly the old woman stares at your
shoulder where some bits of greenery are lodged in
the jomts of your armour. “Treffilli! You've brought
me Treffilli.’ At first jubilant, she becomes suspi-
deus. Who are you that bing me Treffilh?’ You
explain your quest to her. She smiles and tells you
that she will help you now. She picks up the sprigs
and crushes them while muttering some words ina
foreien tone ... bath of you at once become
invisible, She unties you and together vou walk past
the guards. You collect your sword from another
hut, and she chuckles as thatalso disappears. Just as
you become visible again you enter the forest, and
the bld woman invites you to accompany her. Do
you accept her offer (Lurn io 130) or leave her and
catry on alone {tum fo 368)?

304-305

304

You know that you cannot fight them all and that it
might prejudice your chances of eventual success to
reveal your status. You drop down on your knees.
They all laugh. ‘You are lucky, fellow, we have had
good hunting today, sa get up.’ The riders think this
a terrific joke — but the smile is quickly wiped off
their faces when they spot a large bird hovering in
the distance. They ride off in pursuit. Furn to 18.

305

You set off northwards. Some way behind you, a
portcullis suddenly slams down, then another a
little nearer. You realize that the gates behind you
are getting closer and dropping quicker each time.
You manage to run past one before it crashes to the
ground, then sprint off for the next one by the final
door. Test your Luck. If you are Unlucky, you are
trapped by the portcullis; your quest is over — you
have no means of stopping the poison from spread-
ing through your body (mark off all the remaining
Poison units). If you are Lucky, you make it,
racing through a doorway just before the portcullis
slams down behind you. Turn to 72.
306-307

306

You brave the thieves’ quarier. The Dwarf has given
you excellent directions and you negotiate the busy
streels easily with your possessions and pack strap-
ped down, and one hand on yoursword. As you are
Passing a small girl, a Gryphawk swoops down and
attacks her; she screams and blood drips from her
neck, Do you stop to help her (turn to 55) or take no
notice (turn to 373)?

397
You take the Medallion and place the bag holding 5
gold coins down at the same time (deduct the gold
from your Adienture Sheet}. The bag sinks and, as
you rush away, arrow’s fire at you, Throw 1 dic. This
is the number of arrows that hit you. Deduct 3
points from your STAMINA for each arrow that
strikes, If you survive, you stagger out of the Maze.
Looking at the Medallion, you see onits reverse the
number ‘1000". Turn to 295.

308-309

The Orcs are standing in the middle of the road,
letting the crowd filter through, Aft your side, a
merchant carrying several large bags slarls com-
plaining to you: ‘Searches, searches, always
searches. [his is what we'll have to look forward to
if Chingiz becomes king. Me, I've got tniffles here,
from Gorak. You'd think ten gold coins a kazan-
weight was a reasonable price to ask, I paid six. But
no one seems to like them in this land. My name’s
Chogum, by the way, and I've got 110 kazanweights
of the stuff.’ You help the merchant carry his bags,
thinking that the smell of the truffles will disyuise
any scent the Orcs may be trying to pick up from
you. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, the Ores let
you pass. Turn to 255- If vou are Unlucky, they look
and sniff at vou suspiciously, then grab you. Turn to
92.

309
You stab at the Grypvulture. It screams and drops

you. Tesi your Luck. If you are Unlucky, you fall
badly (deduct 2 points from your skit. and 4 points
from your STAMINA. Mark off 2 Poison unils). If
you are Lucky, your fall is cushioned by reeds. Turn

0-322.
— Fi >

oe
i @
<<
=
.
=
‘-
_
-
=
:

310-312

310

You take just a few steps on the other side of the
chasm when you feel the ground besin to vibrate.
Both snow-bridges collapse behind you. You stag-
ser fomvard — but are stunned to see two Kazanid
horsemen and one of the legendary ‘lusker Mam-
moths. The beast lurches heavily forward and
stamps on the ice. Its nder draws an arrow aimed at
your heart. You stand stock-still. The Tusker trum-
pets and suddenly encircles vour waist with its
trunk. Everything blacks out. Turn to 289.

311

You cut your way through the forest until you come
toa Clearing. Sitting under an oak tree is an old man
wearing wizard’s robes; he is watching acorns fall,
burrow into the ground, then appear as saplings.
This seems to amuse him; he is chuckling and
sniguering. Then he notices you standing there
watching. "Ah, I've been waiting for you,’ he
mumbles. Now - . - what was it Lwas to tell you?
Astragal said not to forget.’ He fingers a knot in his
long beard fretfully, mutters to himself and wan-
ders off among the thick bushes. Do you follow him
(fur to 266) or do you prefer to carry on alone (turn
to 257)?

322
Turn to 184.
313-314

313
You climb the rigging and draw your sword. The
first Dragon has been furiously breathing fire;
however, when it sees you, its forces are spent and
itcan only snort. li flaps about as you strike at it.

KAZILIK DRAGON

If you survive, the other Dragon has meanwhile set
fire to the ship, seized several sailors in its talons
and swooped away. The burning ship begins to
sink. Striking out in the oily water, you grab a piece
of driftwood and float t) the coast. Turn to 348.

SKILL i0 STAMINA 12

334
You walk along the path, keeping one eye on some

large birds circling overhead. The snow has stopped
and the track begins to slope downwards. Soon you
find yourself walking by a fast-flowing stream. As
you bend over to drink some water, you see a
shadow looming over you: itis a wizened old crane,
dressed in tatters that might once have been finery.
She introduces herself as Gehichna and asks if you
would like to earn some gold. She wants you to doa
little jab for her. Da you agree to help her (turn to 22)
or decide to ignore her request and carry on alone
(turn to 115)?

315-317

345

You take out the metal ball and swing it up over
your head, aiming for the top of the obelisk. Throw
1 die, then throw « die again; if the numbers on the
two dice match, you have succeeded first time. If
they don’t match, then deduct 1 point from your
STAMINA and ty again ... as many times as it
takes until you succeed. If vou give up, you have to
take a much longer route (turn to 88). [f you suc-
ceed, the drawbridge is lowered over the chasm and
the Frozen Warrior speaks: ‘Pass, stranger You
cross over and follow a path that slopes downwards
until, eventually, it forks. Which way do you go
now: to the right (turn to 81) or to the left {turn to
145)?

316

You are in a room of ice, The ice is increasing all the
time and you have to hack atil tokeep yourself fom
being enveloped. Throw 2 dice for the speed at
which the ice grows and 2 dice for your speed at
hacking it down. Lf the speed of ice build-up is
greater than the speed of hacking, you are suffo-
cated and frozen. Your quest is over. Otherwise,
deduct 2 points from your STAMINA, return to 160
and throw the magic die-

317
You swing your sw ord and strike at a metal object-
There is a gruff laugh and you feel a sword touch
your back. ‘So you think you can fight me in the
dark? Well, good luck.’
317-320

If you have the ability of Darkfight, fight as normal;

otherwise, deduci 2 points from your sxixt for this
cambat only.

DARK WARRIOR
If you win, you stumbie off in the dark. Turn te 214.

SKILL 6 STAMINAS

318
There is a large crowd of people in front of you

watching 4 procession, but you cannot see anything

where you are standing. Do you push through the
crowd {turn to 396) or ignore it and head for the
Fortress {tum to 271)?

319

Adana-Broussah joins you. While she wipes the
blood from her sword, she chatiers animatedly t
you. ‘There has been some dispute with Chingiz
about the cost of a proposed operation. Beshbalik is
determined to continue rampaging around as a free
agent. I’m afraid it won't be as easy as | had thought
to approach Sharrabbas.’ Do vou now wish to slip
away ‘and travel on your own {tum 1o 88} or stay
with the Marauders {turn to 386)?

You know that you dare not hang around while they
play their stupid games; their commander will be
along soon. You pull out your sword, and they are
not slow in drawing theirs. Fight each in turn.

320-321

SKILL STAMINA
First ORC 7 6
Second ORC Y 6

lf you win (mark off 2 Poison units on the Adventire
Sheet), you manage to dash out of sight just as you
hear someone approaching. You make your way
down the mountain. Turn to 122.

321
You awaken to find the hideous face of a Necro-
mancer staring into yours. She is licking her lips,
displaying her long pointed fangs. You are Spell-
bound and cannot move- Looking around, you can
see other figures nearby, and you realize thal you
are at the top of one of the towers of the Fortress.
Just then, trumpets sound and in marches Chingiz,
surrounded by his bodyguard and witha womanin
tow. ‘So, this is the last of the Select,’ he sneers.
“Well, how do you propose to kill this brave being?’
The Necromancer paints to a cauldron of boiling oil
and some heavy boulders. ‘Boiled and crushed,” she
replies with a snigyer. “Tox elaborate — throw the
last of the Select over the edge of the tower.’ With
these damning words, he marches out. You are
dragged over to the parapet, the spell upon you is
broken and you are thrown inte space. If you pos-
sess the Crey Talon of Sakar, you may turn to 43; if
you possess at least one Medallion, you may turn io
244. However, if you have neither of these, turn to
53-
‘ uss
roe fwd
a -% © + or

PYM res

=
-
—
~~ <7
*

322

322

You wade through the reeds for a long time.
Eventually, you become aware of a peculiar crack-
ing sound. A strange wooden creature suddenly
rises up out of the reeds; it expands its limbs at a
fantastic rate, towering over the land, andit seems
to be looking forsomething- As quick asa flash, you
drop down into the reeds - where you come face to
face with a Kazanid woman. She motions for you to
keep still and silent. The creature, a Kalamite, rattles
about until it finds you; then it encircles your body
with its giant hand, prior to lifting you up. Do you
2o for your sword now (turn to 104) or do you play
dead {turn to 195)?

323-344

323

You turn to face the Elf. He looks a little the worse
for wear. Ite leads you to a bench and you both sit
down. ‘Look, I know they’re after you, I have the
Sight, T can help you. | used to be in the court of
Seerek, a High Elfnoless!’ You agree to let him help
you and he hands you a small black bottic. ‘Drink
this. It’s the only way ta get past the senses of the
mad Necromancer. The brew blots out all his mind-
delving, we just pretend we're drunk.” You drink
the mixture, which tastes awful (deduct 1 point
from your STAMINA). You pass easily through the
raad-block and the Elf, who calls himself Lichtfin-
ger, tells you he has important information to sell
you for 10 gald coins. If you have this much gold on
your Adventure Sheet and wish to pay, turn to 71. If
you don‘t have the money, or you don’t want to buy
the information, you thank the Elf politely for his
help and carry on along the road. Turn to 23.

324
You stand facing a Minotaur who is holding a huge

club and straddling the corpse of a Mamlik. The
Minotaur attacks.

URUZ MINOTAUR

If you win, the body of the Minotaur sinks into the
ground. You loak around and see hwo tunnels.
Which do you choose: the one leading south (turn to
156) or the other heading cast (turn to 190)?

SKILL 9 STAMINA Y

325-326

325

You walk through the doorand find yourself stanng
at a scene of carnage. Mamliks, Knights, Trolls and
Goblins all lie dead in front of a Necromancer whois
laughing wildly. He spins round, sees you and
hurls a mass of small knives at you. Test your Luck. Tf
you are Unlucky, throw 2 dice for the number of
knives that hit you, then reduce your STAMINA by
that amount. If you are Lucky, ali the knives miss.

This is Zizzadek, the mad master of the undead
beings. He tums himself into a Dragon of substance
and lumbers forward to attack.

ZIZZADEK

If you win (mark off 2 Poison units on the Adventure
Sheet), the body decays to the accompaniment of an
unwworldly scream. You step over the other bodies to
find two doors facing you. Which do you opt to go
through: the left-hand one (turn to 158) or the
right-hand one (turn to 54)?

SKIEL it STAMINA 14

326

There are too many of them for you to fight and
hope to win, so you rush off up the mountainside.
Suddenly, you are tripped and fall as a weighted
thong, thrown by one of your pursuers, wraps itself
around your ankles (deduct 1 point from your
STAMINA). You are surrounded by evil, grinning
faces. Jeering, they release you from the thong.
Turn to 127.
327-328

327
You stand in a room full of mirrors. Suddenty, the
head ofa serpent appears through the mirror on the
floor and you fall down through its mouth into
the darkness (deduct 2 points from your STAMINA).
Turn to 157 and mark your new position on the
chart.

328

You are in the Street of the Swordsmiths. One of the
doors suddenly flies open and a group of Elves are
marched out by a squad of armed Orcs. One of the
Ores hammers a nolice on the wooden door. You
walk over and read: “Anyone caught helping or
harbouring strangers: the penalty will be death. A
reward of 30 gold coins will be paid for any stranger
tumed over to the authorities.” You turn round to
find two Orcs looking thoughtfully at you. You run
to the door. test your Luck. HW you are Unlucky, the
door is locked and you are surrounded by a squad of
Orcs, One of them hits you over the head. Turn to
321.

If you are Lucky, the door is open. You enter, lock
and boll it, run through the workshop, replacing
your blade with a Kazan Surefighter (add 1 point to
YOur SKILL) and go wut through a back door. Turn fo

65.

329-339

329
You hurry on by, but when you look back the nature
of the bundle reveals itself. A large leather covering
has been thrown off, and you see a Goblin in the act
of releasing a Gryphawk. The bird flies off and
disappears over the mountain. Do you return to
attack the Goblin (tum to 288) or continue your
journey (turn to 96)?

330
POWER TO CHANGE METAL OBJECTS
You have drunk the mixture that gives you this
Power. Note the fact on your Adventure Sieef, LU this
is your first choice, return to 45 and choose again. If
this is your second choice, turn to 74.
331-332

331
You descend upon the Ore, but he moves with
surprising swiftness.

GUARDIAN ORC

If you win (mark off 1 Poison unit on the Adzenture
Sheet), tether one horse, cause the others to scatter,
then ride off on your chosen mount. Turn to 148.

SKILL 7 STAMINA 6

332
You stand in front of a torchht panel showing six
circles with, on each, the drawing of an animal: the
Bull of Uruz; the Eagle of Hulugu; the Fangiiger of
Yigenik; the Snake of Korkut; the Horse of Bogomil
and the Dragon of Kazilik, If you do not possess a
Medailion, turn to 61. If you have one or more
Medallions, choose one and place itin the appropr-
ate niche. Then deduct the number 641 from the
number on the back of the Medallion you have
chosen, and go to the paragraph sith that number.

333

333

You think the plain will be safer. Unfortunately, the
land grows boggy and you are forced to weave your
way around the marshy patches until you find it
difficult to stay travelling in the right direction. A
large bird flies overhead, sees vou, and flies off. In
the distance you hear the sound of digging and, as
you breast a slight rise, you come upon a Marsh
Goblin burying something; nearby lies a dead body.
The creature senses you, screams that you shall not
have his gold, and attacks.

MARSH GOBLIN

If you win (mark off 2 Poison units on the Adventure
Skeet), you drag out the half-buried chest and find 25
gold coins in it (mark these on your Adventure
Skeet). Suddenly, from the direction of the deep
marshes, you hear riders. Do you hide until they
have passed (tiirn to 261) or run back to the road
(turn to 53)?

SKILL 6 STAMINA 6
334-335

334

You are powerless. Two Orcs are ordered to prab
you. . . and you remember nothing more until you
come toa in a graveyard. The Necromancer speaks:
“You are mine to do with as | please, and | please to
sce you suffer . . . slowly.’ She strikes the ground
with her staff and the tombs begin to open. Decayed
bodies and skeletons emerge clutching new dag-
gers, and some begin slashing at you. You are in
great danger, your quest will be at an end unless
you have the Grey Talon of Sakar (turn to 102) or at
least bwo sprigs of Treffilli and you know how to use
them (turn to 146). If you have neither of these, you
die the death of One Thousand Cuts. You have
failed.

335
You pull your sword out. However, it falls from

your grasp, and you are left defenceless. The Ogres
attack you, and you hear a vuice from the Throne
announce thal no weapon may be drawn or used
near the Throne of Kazan, on pain of instant death.
Turning, you see Meghan-na-Durr; she is still
dluiching the dagger, but her face collapses to reveal
the skeleton undermeath. She falls over and dies.
You, aias, will suffer a similar fate. You needed
greater wisdom, and your quest has ended, in sight
of the great Throne.
336-339

336
You sit down on the wooden plank and shove
yourself off, The speed is tremendous as you bank,
huirn and siveep down the ice chute. Turn to 234.

—

337

Yuu run at fill speed, then stop and press yourself
against a wall. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, you
have survived with a little bruising from the passing
bulls (deduct 2 points from your STAMINA). If you
are Unlucky, throw 2 dice for the number of times
you are struck by the bulls and deduct double that
number from your sramins, The bulls charge on
through a wall and disappear. The tunnel you arein
turns south and then leads to a door which you
push open. Turn to 207.

338
‘Turn to 362.

339
You walk along the quay. No other ships seem to be
leaving at this time. Just then, you spol a horse-
trader; he is sitting on a fence holding the reins of 2
selection of horses. Do you wish to try and hire a
harse {turn to 220) or do you dedde to leave Korkut
on foot (turn to 388)?

340-341

340
You are in a room with a giant Grypvulture:. It
flutters about, crashing into the walls. Lesf your
Luck. lfvouare Lucky, it does vou no damage. IF you
are Unlucky, throw 1 dic and reduce yoursTAMINA
by that number. Returm to 160 and throw the magic
die & continue through the Maze.

341

You enter the guild. Inside there is a sign: ‘Man-
drake Wolfsbane — Locksmith (and Saddlemaker)’.
You walk through another doorway and find alarye
man, puffing ata pipe, humming and filing atakey,
He asks you what you want. You reply ina whisper
that you are one of Segrek’s Select and a friend of
Astragal. He stares at you and then admits that he
doesn’t know what you are talking about. He puffsa
smoke ring at you; il encircles you and tums red,
then makes the ‘A’ rune shape. ‘But if you're look-
ing for somewhere to stay, why not try the Dragon‘s
Wings Tavern?’ He picks up some chalk and writes,
"Welcome, but beware! [here are eves and ears
everywhere. Keep to the shadows. I will see you al
the inn in a few hours.’

You leave by a back door and enter a narrow alley.
Do you choose to tum left (turn to 65) or right (turn

to 276)?
342-343

342
You are faced with two coridors, running north
and west, and two doors that will not open im the
south and the east. You notice footprints heading
north and you can hear shrieks coming fom the
western tunnel. Which do you choose: north (turn
to 87) or west (turn to 36)?

343
Flaxwort drops you off in a busy lane, close to a

small trading-posi.. He wishes you success and
drives off, You look around, conscious of the fact
that Chingiz must have many paid informers. You
set off, trying to look purpeseful, but the lane you
are following soon divides, Do you head for the
trading-post (turn to 52), carry straight on down the
lane (turn to 208) or turn left into another road (farm
to 318)?

|

3

You are walking past a group of wealthy merchants
when you suddenly hear the familiar Gorak accent,
‘What Id give for some truffles right now. No one
seems to like them here, so nv one bothers to import
them.” Do you know anyone who has tniffles to
trade? Go to the paragraph which is the same as the
number of kazanweights he possesses. If you don't
know any truffle importers, you make your way out
of the town of Torrez. Turn to 280.

The Boulvanthrop swoops down, lands and stands
before you. She cannot carry you far because she is
wounded: an arrow-shaft protrudes from her side.
Al first you refuse her offer of help, but she insists;
she lifts you off the scrubby hill, flies with you for
several miles and finally deposits you upon another
hillside. You thank her deeply and she flies off, This
would be a good place fora rest, you decide. Turn to

399-
i

an
. :

346-348

346

The preparations are swilthy made. You are placed
at the end of a row of warriors who stand on either
side of a trench of burning coals. The old woman
announces this to be the Test of the Yigenik, the key
to the Maze. “You must race over the hot coals as fast
as you can and at the same time try to ward off the
blows of the warriors.” Throw 1 die for your speed
and another die for a blow, If the two totals match,
deduct 2 points from your STAMINA. Repeat the
lest ten times. IF you survive, turn to 134.

347
You speak to the Gremlin with a silken tongue that

worms itself into his mind. Slowly his face lights up,
as he realizes that he should open the door for you-
He turns his back and, after a few convulsions,
produces the key and opens the door for you, a
broad smile on his face. Turn to 363.

348
You haul yourself out of the water and stapyer
inland. Expecting more Dragons, you clutch your
sword tightly to vou. Nothing appears. You have to
walk for many hours until you find a place thal can
be easily defended while you rest. Turn to 399.

349-351

There are two sealed doors, to the south and east,
and corridors north and west. You hear a strange
sniffing.in the stiliness to the north and see a woman
sitting on the floor. Do you head for her (turn to 215)
or choose to go west (turn to 147)?

50
You are walking along eS lane when you are
stopped by a warty Troll, holding a small cage; he
demands to see your identity scroll. You search
about in your pack, then pull out your sword. The
Troll opens the cage and a small bird flies aut-

TROLL

Hf you win (mark off 1 Poison unit on the Adventure
Sheet), you cannot see the messenger bird any-
where, You know there is little time left before it
brings reinforcements. In front of you there are two
lanes; which do you take: the one to the left (turn to
65) or the one on the night (tum to 276)?

SKILL 6 STAMINA G

351

You approach the body; it is that of a woman,
dressed like a fellow adventurer and probably one
of Segrek’s Select. You can see no wounds on her,
but she seems to have no bones left in her body.
There is a brighter gleam of daylight here. Do
you start to search the body to see if she has 2
Medallion (turn to 139), run to the door outside
(turn to 170) or head back to the tunnel leading west
(turn to 268)?

|

'

352-353

You accept the stranger's offer, pay the money
(deduct 2 gold coins from your Adventure Sheet}, and
climb up on to the spare horse. The rider leads and
you follow. Suddenly you are set upon by six Orcs
and a Mamilik who rush out from the bushes. Your
horse will not move and you seem to be glued,
spellbound, to the stirrups and saddle. The Mamlik
smiles a terrible smile, walks round and stabs you in
the back. Your quest is over.

353
You are well hidden behind a large boulder by the
time the riders approach. They pass by and you
breathe a sigh of relief. Suddenly, however, they
rétum and gaze at the footprints in the snow. They
know where you are! They release a large Gryp-
hawk that flutters up into the air, then dives at you
and aitacks your back and neck (deduct 2 points

_ from your stastina). You rush out and stand ina

defensive attitude before the riders. Turn to 250.
354-353

354
Snakes’ Eyes is a dice game. You place a stake in

gold coins on the table and make three attempts to
thraw a double. If you do throw a double, you get

back double your original stake and that particular —

game ends, If you throw double-1 (snakes’ eyes)
you get back three mes your stake. There is a
maximum stake of 5 gold coins and you may play
only three times. Play the game and make the
appropnate adjustments on your Adventure Sheet.

You finish playing, gather up your winnings (if any)
and then you notice a Goblin who is scrutinizing
you carefully. Do you go outside through the front
door (turn §) 168) or do you prefer to leave througha
small back door (turn to 198)?

355
As you walk along, you hear rumbling, shaking and

screaming noises close by. You stop to read an
inscription: ‘This is the True Path out of the Maze;
here, brave adventurer, you will be safe.’ Suddenly,
two Ores rush at you, yelling and brandishing their
shortswords. Fight each in turn.

SKILL STAMINA
First ORC 7 .
Second ORC ’4 6

l{ you survive (mark aff 2 Poison units on the
Adventure Sheet), you push open a door which then
shuts behind you. Turn to 264.

356-357

356
THE POWER OF PERSUASION
You have drunk the mixture that gives you this
Powwer. Mark this on your Adventure Sheet. If this is
your first choice, return to 45 and choose again. Ifit
is yOur second choice, furn to 74.

357
The Scimitar brew slips down your throat very

_ easily. You feel a warm glow — but suddenly you

start to see black circles and your insides want to
change places with your outside, Alkis comes back,
smells the brew and knocks the mug from your
hand. You feel terrible (deduct £ point from your

| SKILL and 2 points from your STAMINA}. Tum ta

210.

355-359

358

You are standing ina daneeen, facing a Fiend. You
can see the Medallion lying on an obelisk in front of
you. Suddenty, the Fiend splits in two. If you have
flowers to placate the Fiends, take two and hand
them over. If you have only one flower, you will
have to fight the first Fiend. If you have no flowers
at all, you will have to fight both Mends in tum.

SKILE STAMINA
first MAZE FIEND 6 8
Second MAZE FIEND 7 ie

é

Mark off 2 Poison units on the Adventure Sheet. Ifyou
win, Fou are able to pick up the Medallion. You look
at the snake motif onit, then turn it over and see the
number ‘1000’. Turn to 69.

359

A door in front of you slides open. You walk into an
antique chamber, full of tombs bearing carvings of
skeletoms. The voice of the Heart of the Ihrone
speaks: “You have passed the first barrier to the
Throne of Kazan. Now, do you possess a second
Medallion? If you do, place it here.’ An obelisk rises
out of the stone floor. If you have a second Medal-
hon, deduct the number 874 from the number in-
scribed on the Medallion’s reverse side and go to
that paragraph. If you do not, then a door opens in
the wall m front of you and you have to enter a
strange room, full of jars and bottles. Turn to 45.
360—362

360
You walk on through the echoing corridor. You
enter a large doorway and see Segrek’s tomb in the
room in front of you. Two Goblins are trying to
Spelibreak the sarcophagus. Do you attack them
(turn to 121) or sneak out again (turn to 38)?

361

All three of vou leave the Dragon’s Wings by a back
door. Through various back-streets you approach
ever closer to the Fortress. Geronicus hands over
the phial you have chosen and you drink it, feeling it
do you good. Standing in front of a rock-face, you
are drawn through the stone. Unseen forces then
lead you down an ancient corridor until eventually
you come toa halt. Turn to 332.

362

Cautiously you try to pass the small creatore.
Angered at being ignored, it begins to shriek and
several others roll out of the holes in the wails. One
of them gets close to you and bites your ankle
(deduct 2 points from yoursTA MINA). Throw 2 dice
for the number of small furry creatures thai atiack
you, then throw 2 dice again: this is the number you
manage to ward off by waving your sword al them.
if more creatures attack you than you can ward off,
then you are bitten: deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA for cach bite. You dash to a metal door,
push it open and go through. It shuts behind you.
Turn to 342.

363

363

You open the door toa plush bedchamber- Sitting in
the middle of a large fourposter bed is Chingiz.
There is no one else in the room. With rather a
strange look on his face, he murmurs in a weak
voice: ‘So, you have made it, Select of Segrek . . .
suppose you want to know where the Throne is?’
He starts to keel over and puts out a hand to steady
himself Quick as a flash, you draw the Dagger of
Darkness from your boot, where it has been safely
hidden throughout your journey, and put it in his
hand! He looks at you and smiles. “You are clever
. - .ifyou can defeat my deadly daughter, then...’
Fie tips over and you see a large dagyer sticking out
of his back. He is dead. You suddenly fee] much
better (add 4 points to your STAMINA and do not
mark off any more Poison units). Turn to 285.

364

364

You hand over the 2 gold coins. The old man looks
you over carefully and sniggers. You climb on the
cart and he urges the horses on. You are relieved
that you won’t have to wait for a while. The driver
asks you if you would like some fruit and, as you
turn round to get an apple, you see the shadow
of a raised dagger in his hand. Twisting round,
you knock the dagger from his hand and, locked
together, you struggle as the horses bolt and the cart
careers, out of control, down the road-

MAMLIK ASSASSIN

The loser in this unarmed combat falls off the cart
and is crushed under its wheels. If you are the
survivor (mark off 1 Poison unit on the Adventure
Sheet}, you have to get off the cart somehow. Do you
leap to the left (turn to19) or to the right (furn to ge)?

SKILLZ STAMINAS

365-366

365

You draw your sword and strike at the evil being,
tearing his cloak. He is surprised at your ability and
runs back into the darkness. Two Mamliks, holding
scimitars, appear in front of you and the Necro-
mancer orders them to attack you while he is
changing shape to that of a panther. Fight each in
Tuer.

SKILL. STAMINA
First MAMLIK 8 10
Second MAMLIK 9 10
PANTHER 8 )

If you survive (mark off 2 Poison units on the
Adventure Sheet), the dead Necromancer’s staff
weaves around your ankles like a snake, and then
bites you. You lose consciousness. Turn to 321.

366

You enter the great Maze and walk south into the
darkness as the doors slam shut behind you-
Faintly, vou hear Agellatha’s voice: ‘Now we are
releasing the 6bvo Minotaurs ofthe Maze who will
pursue you throughout your quest for the Medal-
tion.” You come to 2 tunnel that heads east. Do you
take this (turn to 203) or do you continue south (turn
to 136)?
367-368

You are in a roam with jewel-encrusted walls. Be-
fore you can move to examine them, a giant Ser-
pent's head appears and you are sucked down into
its mouth (deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA).
Turn t 17 and mark yournew position on the chart

368

You move fast through the undergrowth, but the
path is difficult to follow and soon you become lost.
Trying to finda way out, you stagger on in the dark
forest. Suddenly you emerge into a clearing_ In front
of you stands a large, heavily armed Troll, who is
gazing at a tree. Do you arcle round past the Troll
{tum to 79) or do vou approach him (turn to 263)?

369

You walk along until you come to a halt in front of
four Orcs guarding a door, If you have the Power to
change metal objects, you change their spears to
look like gold; the Ores forget about you and begin
to fight among themselves. If you have the Power of
Persuasion, you whisper softly to them that their
whole aim in life is to Jet you pass, and they do.

If you have neither of these Powers, fight each Orc
in turn.

SKILL STAMINA
Farst ORC 9 6
Second ORC 7 6
Third ORC 7 6
Fourth ORC 7 6

Whatever your Power, if you have survived (mark
off 3 Poison units on the Adventure Sheet) you pass
into another room. Turn to 325.
370

370
The storm continues and you struggle on for many

hours. Suddenly you see ahead a warrior being
attacked by six hideous Goblins which are prevent-
ing him from crossing a bridge across a chasm.
Although the warrior shows supreme fighting skill,
one of the Goblins has crept behind him and is about
to stab him in the back. You come instantly to the aid
of the warrior.

GOBLIN SKILL 5 STAMINA 5

Lf you survive, add 1 point to your 1 Uck; the Gob-
ins’ attack is beaten off. [he warrior turns to face
you and you realize that he is blind. Formally, he
introduces himself as Alkis Fearslicer, from the
ranks of the legendary blind Sensewarmioars who live
in the deep Chasms below Gorak. He tells you that
he is in pursuit ofan escaped criminal wha has come
& Kazan to ally himself with Chingiz. He then asks
you your business. Do you trust him and tell all
(turn to 62) or do you mumble a few lies (turn to

2241°

371-372

371
You roll in the dark towards the fire and thrust your
bound wrists close to the flames (deduct 2 points
from your STAMINA and mark off 1 Poison unit).
Your bonds burn through and you just have time to
pull out your sword before the guard returns.

KAZANID GUARD SKILL 6

ff you svin, you hurry out into the snowstorm and
Tun round to the back of the hut. Here, you finda
pile of arrow-shaped planks and an icy track that
leads down the mountain. You kick one of the
planks and it shoots off down the track. This looks
like a quick means of escape. Do you want to try it
(turn to 336) or do you think it too risky (hin to 59)?

STAMINA 7

372

The Yigeniks make camp and water their horses,
then they feed themselves. The horses stay, graz-
ing, very close to the warriors. You manage ito get
some sleep (add-1 point to your STAMINA). You are
awakened by the whinnying and stamping horses—
they seem very nervous. Inseconds the Yigeniks are
mounted as a large phalanx of Ores charges out of
the trees. Do you stay and fight (turn to 118) or do
you escape into the darkness (hurn to 203)?

373-374

373
You ignore the incident and keep well away from
the girl. The Gryphawk stops pretending to attack
her and settles on her shoulder. The girl pokes her
tongue out at you and wipes the red dye from her
neck. You take care to avoid any other tricks. At last
you find the Street of the Forty Guilds. Tum to 98.

You approach the worm with care, but it does nat
sce you because it is preoccupied with the others
flying around aboveit. You pull out your sword and
slash atit. It tums to face you, dropping its birdman
prey.

SKULUGGI SKILL 6

lf you survive {mark off 1 Poison unit and add 2
points to your LUCK}, you are carried by the bird-
men to the top ofa mountain, where they thank you
profusely for saving the young birdman. They call
themselves Boulyanthrops and, by way of reward,
they ask if there is any way they can be of aid ta you.
Do you tell them that you are one of Segrek’s Select
(turn to 172) or do you ask them to carry you back
down to the road, and then watch them ily away
(turn to 162)?

STAMINAB
375-376

375
She orders you to follow her. She makes a tourof the

numerous guilds, giving each of them a small bunch
of flowers in return for a large purse of gold coins.
When one guild-master refuses to accept her
flowers, two large Kazanids suddenly appear and
proceed to smash up most of the shop. Eventually,
youare led down into a cellar full of beggars, thieves
and criminal thypes. You peer around and see a
Mamniik standing in the crowd, watching you. Do
you Tun away, up the stairs and out (turn to 65) or
will you face up to the Mamilik (turn to 80)?

376
THE POWER OF STORMBRINGING
You have drunk the mixture that gives you this
Power, Note this on your Adveniure Sieet_ Lf this is
your first choice, return to 45 and choose again. Ifit
is your second choice, turn to 74.

377-375

377
You walk along the tunnel. Suddenly, you stumble

over the burnt-up body of someone or something.
You look at the wall above the body and see two
bulls’ heads with gleaming green eyes, You step
closer, and fire belches from their nostnls, lighting
up three Medallions set in a row between the bulls’
heads. Which Medallion do you choose tu take:

The first? Tum to 184
The second? Turn to 312
The third? Tum to 228

The giant, tail-less rat scampers off in front of you.
You heara booming voice: “Yes, follow therat, it will
conduct you to the entrance.’ It leads you through
ancient dusty tunnels for a long time, then stops
and scrabbles on the floor. Looking carefully, you
can make out the inscription of a hom, If you
possess Segrek’s horn, blow it now. The ground
shimmers and opens up for a moment under your
feet. You fall in: turn to 332.

If you do not possess the horn, you must dig with
your sword (deduct 3 pomts from your $TAMINA
and mark off 1 Poison unit) until you succeed in
breaking through; then you jump into the hole.
Turn to 332.
379

379

The path you are following drops down into a dry
river valley and then opens out on to a flat plain.
You are overtaken by several carts, and can see and
hear yelping dogs and a crowd in the distance; all
the people seem to be making for a market. Just
ahead there is aroad-block, commanded by six Orcs
who are searching everyone who passes. To one
side stands an evil-looking, black-cloaked figure: a
Necromancer. All you can do is stand there,
wondering what to do. Just then you notice an Elf
staring at you, You move away, but he follaws and
calls out to you. Do you stop and tum round to talk
to him (turn to 323), or would you rather hide
yourself among the milling throng (turn to 230)?

380

380
The ground shakes and chunks of stone drop down
out of the ceiling, to reveal sunlight streaming in
from above. Tes! your Luck. If you are Unlucky, you
are hit by 2 stone block (deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA). If you are Lucky, they all miss.

There is much noise and smoke. An armoured Orc
rushes past but fails to see you. You walk over to an
open doorway; the dour that was there has been
knocked off its hinges. You go through—and bump
into another Orc.

ORC SKILL F

If you win (mark off 1 Poison unit on the Adzveniure
Sheet), the only clear exit is to the nartth. Tum to 264,

STAMINA 6
M.-al
Aste ih ue cig ‘

4 sic aes
> _ ee at (ges

arte *
‘

Ag

.

z i. ia ps. Fy er

be —

1" te bes

ng phen. rie ue ser ag

381-382
381

You look up to see some Orcs and a knight
looking down at you. They balance the caul-
dron of boiling oil on the tower wall as one of
the Ores throws a boulder at you. Throw 1 die for
your position, then throw 1 die for the place where
the boulder hits. If the two numbers match, you are
hit, fall off and die. Your quest ends here.

if the rock misses you, the boiling oil is then poured
down at you. Throw 1 die for the number of places
on your body that are splashed with oil and deduct
this number from your STAMINA.

You press close to the wall as another boulder
smashes against the side of the tawer, loosening a
few stones. You Iaunch a kick at the stone blocks
and a section of the wall caves in. You dive in, head
first, as another shower of oil comes hurtling down.
Inside, you land on a pile of smelly ntbbish that
breaks your fall. In the dim light you can see an
entrance to a chamber on the left (turn to 265) and
one on the night (turn to go). Which room do you
enter?

382
You are in a room containing jars full of herbs. All
are impossible to open except the one marked
‘Tretfilli’. You have time to take only twa sprigs
before the jar seals itself again. If you want them,
take the sprigs and mark them on your Adventure
Sheet, Turn to 398.
383-385

383
‘You are fortunate that Lhave a strong regard for the
Select. Farewell, brave adventurer, and good luck“

The bandits fade into the mountainside and you
carry on down the sloping track until the land
becomes less bleak. Eventually the path before you
divides: One way is marked by an obelisk bearing a
carving of a stallion (tum to 391) and the other by a
similar obelisk with the carving of a Fangtiger (tum
to 209). "hich do you choose?

384
THE POWER OF FORTUNE
You have drunk the mixture that gives you this
Power (in any situation that depends on LUCK, you
will be Lucky). Mark this on your Adventure Sheet. If
this is your first choice, return to 45 and choose
again. If itis your second choice, turn to 74.

385

You select the guard standing next to you to explain
your situation lo. He looks you upand down, smiles
confidentially and tells you to speak to no one else.
He cuts through your bonds and tells vou to walk
behind the cart, You do as he orders. Suddenly he
sets upon you from behind, screaming thal you
have tried to escape. You spin round and attack
him,

KAZANID GUARD SKILL7 STAMINA 8

345-387

If you survive (mark off 1 Poison unit on the Adzven-
ture Sheet), the other Kazanids have had time to
group around you and one prepares to fire an arrow
into your heart. ‘Turn to 31.

386

The Marauders ride off. This ime you ride with
them as you have been given a horse in payment for
your part in the battle with the Trolls. The horde
moves at a fast gallop. At a crossroads the leading
group is stopped by a black-cloaked man holding up
a staff. Two of them try to hack him to pieces but
their swords pass clean through him. From this, you
recognize that the figure is that ofa Necromancer. Lf
you have achieved Necromancer fighting skill level,
do you urge your horse forward (turn to 151)? Ifyou
do not have the ability or choose to remain where
you are, turn lo 243.

You approach the Figaro nia itholds outa thin bany
hand, pleading formonev. Youslip the begeara few
iron coins of little yalue. He gazes at the head of
Tancred on the coins and then looks you up and
down. Fle tells you that, if you have five gold coins,
he will help you. If you have the money, do you
accept the offer (turn to 253) or do you refuse his
help (turn to 150)? If you have no gold, you must
refise.
388-389

388

You wander through a maze of alleyways until
finally you leave Korkut. There is only one road oul
of the town, and you trudge along it, fecling hotand
tired (deduct 1 point from your STAMINA). Just
then, you become aware of someone following you:
he has a patch over one eve, he stumps along on a
wooden peg-leg and he carries on his back a hurdy-
gurdy music-box. He catches up with you and asks
if you svould like to hear a tune for the price of a
crust of bread or a few iron coins. He looks desper-
ate. Do you agree to let him play for you (turn tog)
or do you refuse (turn to 108)?

389
You rush over to the obelisk. There is a Medallion on

the top! You grab it and it crumbles to dust in your
hands. There is the sound of muffled laughter as a
clawed hand bursts out of the obelisk and grabs
your wrist, The hand belongs to a Dungeon Delver-
it breaks out of the obelisk and attacks you-

DUNGEON DELVER

If you survive, you rush through another door.
Turn to 100.

SKILL F STAMINAG6

390-391

390

The tunnel leads to a small iron-barred window.
Outside, vou can see the hideous features of a
Gargoyle. Suddenly, a door you have passed with-
out noficing it opens outwards. A Goblin emerges,
Carrying a bucket, and limps off dawn the comdor.
Cautiously, you look inside; all manner of folk are
chained up, or strapped to instruments of torture.
You hear a weak call coming from a corner by the
rack: “Come here and release me.’ You walk over, to
find 2 thin wretch smiling at you. A demented
Dwarf screams, ‘No, don’t doit, don’tdoit!’ Do you
decide to release the prisoner (furn to 109) or do you
leave the room and go south {turn to 360)?

394
You set off along the track which soon becomes a

good solid road. After many hours of walking, the
land has flattened out toa grassy plain. Youmeetno
one during all this time. Eventually, you hear the
sound of a rider on the road behind you. There is
little cover on this grassy plain. Do you decide ta lie
down in the grass and hope that no one will see you
(turn to 202) or do you carry on like a normal
traveller (turn to 192)?
392-394

392

You step into a room that is full of statues and
carvings of dragons. THorrified, you watch three of
them begin to move and thrash about. They are
small Kazilik Dragons which, you know, can be
placated with gems. lf you have three gems in your
possession, you may pass without a fight (make the
necessary adjustments on the Adventure Sheet). If
you have two gems, you will have to fight the first
Dragon. Similarly, if you have just one, you will
have to fight the first and second Dragons.

SKILL SIAMINA

First KAZILIK DRAGON 10 i2
Second KAZILIK DRAGON 10 14
Third KAZILIK DRAGON 11 16

if you pass through orsurvive the fight, turn to 359.

393
You are faced with fo tunnels. Which do you take:
the one heading east (burn to 205) or the other
heading south (turn to 377)?

394
You hear shuffling footsteps. You peep out and see
firur Necromancers entering the room. One is
carrying a box that contains four phials, each witha
distinctive marking, One of them says to the others:
"We have been charged by Chingiz to discover the
secret entrances to the Heart of the Throne that the
Select will take if they reach the Fortress. In one
month we have Spellbroken only the entrance of the

394-395

Cross ~ we must work harder.” They begin to chanta
demonic spell and you hear the sound of breaking
glass and the roll of thunder. In the turmoil you
sneak out through the window,

Outside, you can discern through the mist two main
paths away from the building. Do you follow the
left-hand path (turn to 23) or the path to the right
(turn to 70)?

395

You are bound with leather thongs that seem to get
tighter the more you struggle, Nothing is taken
from you, however, and you are led through the
dark forest until you reach a small settlement in a
Clearing. The silent figures now reveal themselves,
by removing their hoods. There are no men in the
group. One of them speaks to you. ‘Intruder, you
have trespassed into Owishriek, the penalty for
which is death — unless you can prove yourself both
strong and ft to live. The choice is yours. Do you
wish to Run the Arrow, or undertake the Test of the
Three Cuts?’ Which do you reluctantly agree to try:
the Run (turn to 48) or the Test (turn to 206)?

396

396
You force your way through to get a better view of

the procession. A Kazanid beside you is descnbing
what is going on to a blind companion. “There he is
now, that Chingiz filth, ’mnot surprised he daesn’t
trust anyone_IfI was Vetch, I'd kill him now. Vetch
is standing over there, a little to our right, with
Mandrake Wolfsbane who's smoking his infernal
pipe You look across: Vetch is well clad in fighting
armour, while Wolfsbane is dressed like a black-
smith. The procession ends and the two men sepa-
rate. Do you wish to follow either of them? If so, do
vou choose Vetch (turn to 68) or Wolfsbane {turn to
5)? Or would you prefer to carry on to the Fortress
(turn to 2721)?

397-398

397

You stagger up the mountain slope. Suddenly, a
small Gryphawk swoops down and lands in front of
you. lt begins ta squawk . . . and then changes its
shape fo that of an old wizard. Tam Icaricus, well
met. | have sought you for many hours. I bring a
message from Astragal . . -’ le stops and puts his
finger in his mouth; he cannot remember it. He
Kicks a rock, which explodes. ‘Ah, yes: “Beware the
Necromancers, they have been unleashed by
Chingiz who is now delving in the evil arts. To help
you in your struggle, | have empowered - _ .” Er, |
can’t remember the resi. Well, never mind, which
way are you heading? I sugpest the lands of the
Bopzomil. Come.’ He changes into a large eagle, gets
you to grip his talons and takes you 2 long way; then
he absent-mindedly drops you on to a path and flies
off, Turn to 392.

3
Zaranj stands before you. “You are brave and have
passed successfully through the Maze, but fortune
has not favoured you with the Medallion. You must
try elsewhere.” Your mind goes blank. Turn to 69,

399

399
You build a sheltered camp, cat some Provisions

and settle down to sleep (add 4 points to your
STAMINA), You are awakened by a small green-
and-red bird that flutters about and lands in front of
you, It picks up some charcoal from the fire in its
Claw and scratches the A‘ nine ona rock, You know
now that itis a messenger from Astragal. Speaking
ina high-pitched whistling tone, it says: ‘Greetings,
friend. Speed is now of the essence. The Medallions
are all taken; make for Sharrabbas as fast as you can.
You mst enter the Fortress, by fair means or foul. If
you already have a Medallion, the task will be

easier. For help, you must go to... Mmm ..
Vetch . . .onnoaccount.. ." The bird stops, drops
the charcoal and flies away-

You set off immediately; after many hours, you
come to 2 fork in the road. Both paths look likely,
but which will you take; the one on the left (turn to
297) or the one on the right (turn to 116)?
400

400

You have defeated the evil Vizier Chingiz and his
deadly daughter, Meghan-na-Durr, in theirattempt
to seize the throne of Kazan. Through your bravery,
wisdom and skill, you yourself have sat upon the
legendary throne at Sharrabbas. The Six Clans will
now support you, both by dint of tradition and
because you have proved to them that you are the
greatest warrior in the land, The Necromancers,
Mamiliks and all the other fell creatures summoned
by Chingiz slink away into the shadows and crawl
back into their holes. You set up a strong force to
police the land and protect the weak, Trade between
Kazan and the rest of Khul flourishes and the land
experiences an era of peace and prosperity. You are
hailed by many as a worthy successor to the great
Segrek,

After one year and one day of your reign, you must
declare your own Select. Once you have died, they
will strive to sit upon the throne of Kazan; thus the
traditions continue.

ee EP A LT Gy ee —_— oe ODIs mee ng

stee

FENTRSY WORL

400

400
You have defeated the evil Vizier Chingiz and his
deadly daughter, Meghan-na-Durr, in their attempt
to seize the throne of Kazan. Through your bravery,
wisdom and skill, you yourself have sat upon the
legendary throne at Sharrabbas. The Six Clans will
now support you, both by dint of tradition and
because you have proved to them that you are the
greatest warrior in the land. The Necromancers,
Mamliks and all the other fell creatures summoned
by Chingiz slink away into the shadows and crawl
back into their holes. You set up a strong force to
police the land and protect the weak. Trade between
Kazan and the rest of Khul flourishes and the land
experiences an era of peace and prosperity. You are
hailed by many as a worthy successor to the great
Segrek.

After one year and one day of your reign, you must
declare your own Select. Once you have died, they
will strive to sit upon the throne of Kazan; thus the
traditions continue.

TITA

THE FIGHTING \ ff
FANTASY WORLD RH /

