FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS |

Over 12 ee Opis: sold worldwidet 3

Can YOU defeat the nightmare army of the
undead?

Agglax the Shadow Demon is amassing an
army of undead warriors to conquer Allansia.

Setting off from Fang with over two hundred

veteran fighters, YOU journey east to meet the

enemy. But the Shadow Demon is not of this

world and special powers are needed to destroy

him. The longer you spend searching for these
powers the stronger he will be.

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you need

for this adventure. YOU decide which paths to

take, which dangers to risk and which
monsters to fight.

Cover tilustration by Chris Achilleos

ISBN 0-14-032486-0

Hlll
PUFFIN BOOKS
ARMIES OF DEATH

The Kingdom of Allansia is under threal. Agejax the cvil
Zombie-Lond is amassing an army of undead wernors in easl-
ern Allansis, beyond the Forest of Fiends. His army increases in
size with every attack it makes on the local villages and every
day its ranks are swelled with slaughtered victims under
Aggiax's evil spell. Unless they are slopped now, the undead
will take over the entire kingdom.

YOU are Allansie’s only bupe. Your mission ie lo raise an army
which will defeat the terifying undead trunps - - but how can
YOU conquer an army which grows in numbers with every
battic it fights?

Two dire, & pencil end an eraser are all you need to embark on
this thrilling adventure, which is complete with its elaborate
combel system and 2 soore-sheet to record your gains and
hoes.

Many dangers le ahead and your success is by no mewns
certain. YOU decide which routes to follow, which dangers to
ntk and which edversanes to ght!

fan Livingstoncis the co-fnunder, with Steve jackson, of Games
Workshop. the hugely successful chain which specializes in
fantesy gemes of all kinds.
PUFFIN BOOKS
ARMIES OF DEATH

The Kingdom of Allansia is under threat. Agglax the evil
Zombie-Lord is amassing an army of undead warriors in east-
ern Allansia, beyond the Forest of Fiends. His army increases in
size with every attack it makes on the local villages and every
day its ranks are swelled with slaughtered victims under
Agglax’s evil spell. Unless they are stopped now, the undead
will take over the entire kingdom.

YOU are Allansia’s only hope. Your mission is to raise an army
which will defeat the terrifying undead troops. . . but how can
YOU conquer an army which grows in numbers with every
battle it fights?

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you need to embark on
this thrilling adventure, which is complete with its elaborate
combat system and a score-sheet to record your gains and
losses.

Many dangers lie ahead and your success is by no means
certain. YOU decide which routes to follow, which dangers to
risk and which adversaries to fight!

Jan Livingstone is the co-founder, with Steve Jackson, of Games
Workshop, the hugely successful chain which specializes in
fantasy games of all kinds,
Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks

1. THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP
MOUNTAIN
2. THE CITADEL OF CHAOS
3. THE FOREST OF DOOM
4. STARSHIP TRAVELLER
5. CITY OF THIEVES
6. DEATHTRAP DUNGEON
7. ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING
8, SCORPION SWAMP
9, CAVERNS OF THE SNOW WITCH
10, HOUSE OF HELL
11. TALISMAN OF DEATH
12. SPACE ASSASSIN
13, FREEWAY FIGHTER
14, TEMPLE OF TERROR
15. THE RINGS OF KETHER
16. SEAS OF BLOOD
17, APPOINTMENT WITH F, E. A. R.
18. REBEL PLANET
19. DEMONS OF THE DEEP
20. SWORD OF THE SAMURAI
21. TRIAL OF CHAMPIONS
22, ROBOT COMMANDO
23. MASKS OF MAYHEM
24, CREATURE OF HAVOC

Steve Jackson's SORCERY!
1. THE SHAMUTANTI HILLS
2, KHARE - CITYPORT OF TRAPS

25. BENEATH NIGHTMARE CASTLE

26. CRYPT OF THE SORCERER

27. STAR STRIDER

28. PHANTOMS OF FEAR

29. MIDNIGHT ROGUE

30, CHASMS OF MALICE

31, BATTLEBLADE WARRIOR

32, SLAVES OF THE ABYSS

33, SKY LORD

44. STEALER OF SOULS

35. DAGGERS OF DARKNESS

36, ARMIES OF DEATH

37, PORTAL OF EVIL

38. VAULT OF THE VAMPIRE

39, FANGS OF FURY

40. DEAD OF NIGHT

41. MASTER OF CHAOS

42. BLACK VEIN PROPHECY

43, THE KEEP OF THE LICH-LORD

44, LEGEND OF THE SHADOW
WARRIORS

45, SPECTRAL STALKERS

46. TOWER OF DESTRUCTION

3, THE SEVEN SERPENTS
4, THE CROWN OF KINGS

FIGHTING FANTASY -— The Introductory Role-Playing Game
THE RIDDLING REAVER - Four thrilling adventures
THE TROLLTOOTH WARS ~ A Fighting Fantasy Novel

The Advanced Fighting Fantasy System

OUT OF THE PIT: Fighting Fantasy Monsters

TITAN: The Fighting Fantasy World

DUNGEONEER - An Introduction to the World of Role-Playing Games

Ian Livingstone

Illustrated by Nik Williams

PUFFIN BOOKS
PUFFIN BOOKS

Published by the Penguin Group
Penguin Books Lid, 27 Wrights Lane, London W8 STZ, England
Penguin Books USA Inc., 375 Hudson Street, New York, New York 10014, USA
Penguin Books Australia Lid, Ringwood, Victoria, Australia
Penguin Books Canada Ltd, 10 Alcorn Avenue, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M4V 3B2 To

Penguin Books (NZ) Ltd, 182-190 Wairau Road, Auckland 10, New Zealand
Helen, Andrew and Sarah
Penguin Books Ltd, Registered Offices: Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England

First published 1988
79 108

Copyright © Tan Livingstone, 1988
Illustrations copyright © Nik Williams, 1988
All rights reserved
Printed in England by Clays Ltd, St Ives ple
Filmset in 11/13pt Linotron Palatino

Except in the United States of America, this book is sold subject
to the condition that it shall not, by way of trade or otherwise, be lent,
re-sold, hired out, or otherwise circulated without the publisher's
prior consent in any form of binding or cover other than that in
which it is published and without a similar condition including this
condition being imposed on the subsequent purchaser
CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION
9

ADVENTURE SHEET
6

BACKGROUND

ARMIES OF DEATH
3
INTRODUCTION

Before embarking on youradventure, you must first
determine your own strengths and weaknesses.
Use dice to determine your initial scores. On pages
18-19 there isan Adventure Sheet which yau may use
to record the details of an adventure. On it you will
find boxes for recording your SKILL, STAMINA and
LUCK scores.

You are advised either to record your scares on the
Adventure Sheet in pencil, or to make photocopies of
the page to use in future adventures.

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter this:
total in the sKrit box on the Adventure Sheet.

Roll two dice. Add 12 to the number rolled and enter
this total in the sta MINA box.

There is also a tucx box. Roll one die, add 6 to this
number and enter this total in the LUCK box.

For reasons that will be explained below, SKILL,
STAMINA and LUCK scores change constantly dur-
ing an adventure. You must keep an accurate record
of these scores and for this reason you are advised
either to write small in the boxes or to keep an eraser
handy. But never rub out your Initial scores.

9
Although you may be awarded additional sxiit,
STAMINA and LUCK points, these totals may never
exceed your Inilial scores, except on very rare occa-
sions, and you will be instructed when this is to
happen.

Your $k11. score reflects your swordsmanship and
fighting expertise; the higher the better. Your
STAMINA score reflects your general constitution,
your sill lo survive, your determination and overall
fimess; the higher your STAMINA score, the longer
you will be able to survive. Your LUCK score indi-

cates how naturally lucky a person you are. Luck —
and magic —are facts of life in the fantasy kingdom
you are about to explore.

Single Combat

You will often come across pages in the book which
instruct you to fight a creature of some sort. You
must resolve the baile as described below.

First record the creature’s skti1. and STAMINA
scores in the first vacant Enemy Encounter Box on
your Adventure Skeet. The scores for each creature
are piven in the book each time you have an en-
counter. The sequence of combat is then:

i. Roll both dice once for the creature. Add ils
SKILL score. [his total is the creature’s Attack
Strength.

190

2. Roll both dice once for yourself. Add the number
rolled to your current sK1t1. score. This total is
your Attack Strensth-

3. If your Attack Strength is higher than that of the
creature, you have wounded it: proceed to step
4- If the creature's Attack Strength is higher than
yours, it has wounded your proceed to step 5. Lf
both Attack Strength totals are the same, you
have avoided each other's blow's — start the next
Attack Round from step 1 above.

4. You have wounded the creature, so subtract 2
points from its STAMINA score. You may use
your Luck here to do additional damage (see
belowy).

5. The creature has wounded you, so subtract 2
points fom your own STAMINA score. Again
you may use LUCK al this stage {see below).

6. Make the appropriate adjustments to cither the
creature’s or your OWNSTA MINA score (and your
LUCK score if you used LUCK — See below).

7- Begin the next Attack Round by repeating steps
1-6. This sequence continues until the stra MINA
score of either you or the creature you are
fighting has been reduced to zero (death).

Battles

Unlike other Fighting Fantasy Gamebuoks, you are
not alone all the time on this adventure. You com-
mand an army of soldiers made up of units of
various Traces. You start your expedition with

it
Dwarfs, Elves, Warriors and Knights, and others
will join your army during the course of the adven-
ture. Soldiers killed in battles are always lost in
blocks of five, and if more than one race is engaged
in a battle, you may choose which ones are lost; for
example, if yau have employed Dwarfs and Knights
against Goblins and receive 15 casualties, you may
lose 15 Dwarfs; or 15 Knights; or 16 Dwarfs and 5
Knights; or 5 Dwarfs and 10 Knights. Remember
always to make the necessary adjustments on your
Adventure Sheel, Soldiers lost in ways other than in
battle are deducted in the same way.

Fighting Skirmish Battles

SKIRMISH BATIYLE RESULTS

SITUATION

| Superior eT inferior

1 5A 10A 15A

2 5E sA | i0A

DIE | 3 5E SA sA
ROLL 4 5E 5E 5A

5 | 405 5E. | 5E

6 15E 10F 5E

A= Allied troops E = Dnemy troops
From time to time on your adventure, you will ight
Skirmish Battles. To fight a Skirmish Battle, follow the
combat sequence below.

12

1. Make a note of the number of your troops, not

including yourself.

. Make a note of the number of enemy troops.

3. Compare the size of the two armies and assess
the situation. For example, if 10 of your Dwarfs
were fighting 190 Hobgoblins, the situation would
be Even. If to Dwarfs were up against 15 enemy
Hobgoblins, your situation would be Infertor,
whereas 15 of your Dwarfs against 10 Hobgob-
lins would be Superior.

4. Roll one die on the Skirmish Battle Results Table
above against the appropriate Sifxation column.

>- Deduct the number of troops lost from either the
enemy army or your own.

6. If troops remain alive on both sides, return to
step 1 or 2, adjusting the number of troops far the
side that has just incurred losses.

7- If your own troops are wiped out, you too will
have perished in battle.

tu

13
Fighting More Than One Creature

If you come across more than one creature in a
particular encounter, the instructions on that page
will fell you how to handle the battle. Sometimes
you will treat them as a single opponent; somehmes
you will fight each one in turn,

Luck

Al various times during your adventure, cither in
battles or when you come across situations in which
you could either be lucky or unlucky (details of
these are given on the pages themsely es), you may
call on your luck to make the outcome more favour-
able. But beware! Using luck is a risky business and
if you are unlucky, the results could be disastrous.

The procedure for using your luck is as follows: roll
two dice, If the number rolled is equal to or less than
your current LUCK score, you have been Lucky and
the result will go in your favour, If the number
rolled is higher than your current LUCK score, you
have been Unlucky and you will be penalized_

This procedure is known as Testing your Luck. Each
lime you Test your Luck, you must subtract 7 point
from your current LUCK score. Thus you will soon
realize that the more you rely on your luck, the
more risky this will become.

14

Usimy Luck tn Battles

On certain pages of the book you will be told to Test
your Luck and will be told the consequences of your
being Lucky or Unlucky. However, in combat, you
always have the option of using your luck either to
inflict a more serious wound on a creature you have
just wounded, or to minimize the effects of a wound
the enemy has just inflicted on you.

If you have just wounded the creature, you may Tes!
your Luck as described above. If you are Lucky, you
have inflicted a severe sound and may subtract an
extra 2 points from the creature's STAMINA score.
However, if you are Unlucky, the wound was a
mere graze and you must restore 1 point to the
creature's STAMINA (i.e. instead of scornng the
normal 2 points of damage, you have now scored
only 1)-

If the creature has just wounded you, you may ‘tes!
your Luck to try to minimize the wound. If you are
Lucky, you have managed to avoid the full damage
of the blow. Restore 1 point of Stamina {i.e In-
stead of doing 2 points of damage it has done only
1). If you are Unlucky, you have taken a more
serious blow. Subtract 1 extra STAMINA point.

Remember that you must subtract 1 point from your
1.UCK Score cach time you Test your Lick.

a5
Restoring Skill, Stamina and Luck

Sell

Your 5xk11.1. score will not change much during your
adventure. Occasionally, a page may give instruc-
tions to increase or decrease your SKIL1I score. A
Magic Weapon may increase your SKILL, but re-
member that only one weapon can be used ata time!
You cannot claim two sKIL1 bonuses for carrying
two Magic Swords. Your SKILL score cen never
exceed its Initial value unless specifically instructed.

Stamina

Your STAMINA score will change 2 lot during
your adventure as you fight monsters and under-
take arduous tasks. As you near your goal, your
STAMINA level may be dangerously low and battles
may be particularly risky, so be careful!

Unlike some Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks, you do
not start your adventure with Provisions. However,
during the course of the adventure, there will be
opportunities for you to regain sT4 MINA points in
various ways.

Remember also that your STAMINA score may
never exceed its Inifial value unless specifically
instructed on a page-

16

Duck

Additions to your LucK score are awarded through
the adventure when you have been particularly
lucky_ Details are given on the relevant pages of the
book. Remember that, as with skiLlLandsSTrAMINaA,
your LUCK Score may never exceed ils Initial value
unless specifically instructed on a page.

17
SKILL —s | JSTAMINA | [LUCK | seit = Skil! = | | skill =
Initial Initial | Seritial Stamina = Shania = Shim =
Shi} = | Staniine = Luck =

SOLDIERS GOLD PIECES Shi= Skiti — } Skil =
700 Starnina2 = Stam = Stamista = .

WARRIORS; 100

Dwakes: 50

ELVES: 90 TREASURE ~ i

KNIGHTS: 20 = —
——-. | Sall= Skill = Skil =
| Stare = Stanunsa Stemming =
i
) = as = ~
Sil = Stil Stil! =
Stam — | Stamina = Stantine =

BACKGROUND

Fame and fortune are twothings which most adven-
turers crave and, having survived Baron Sukumvit’s
infamous Deathtrap Dungeon, you now have both.
li was thoughtimpossible for anybody to battic their
way successfully through the deadly dungeon in
Fang, which was protected by the baron’s cunning
Trialmasters. Yet somehow you survived and
claimed the purse of 20,000 Gold Pieces in the Trial
of Champions.

Now, wherever you walk in Fang, you are cheered,
and in the taverns where you drink, people ask you
aboul your perilous journey through the dungeon.
‘Was there a Bone Devil in the dungeon?’ . . . ‘Did
you see the beautiful Siren?’ ... How did you
overcome the Liche Queen?’ -.. "What does 2
Coldelaw look like?’ ... “What is the colour of
Mutant Orc's blood?’ Everybody is in awe of you
and wants to know all about the evil dungeon. But
the constant attention soon becomes tiring and you
resolve to set off on another quest as sown as poss-
ible. Besides, there is a new threat to Allansia which
is gathering strength in the east. Before you set off,
you decide to spend some of your hard-earned pnze
money. You commission a small castle to be built for
you on the south bank of the River Kok while you
are away; with the remaining 6,000 Gold Pieces, you

20

decide to hire soldiers to make an army! Recently
there have been sightings of a large number of Orcs
and Goblins in the Forest of Fiends. There is a
rumour that their leader is Agylax the Shadow

Demon.

A Shadow Demon, as everybody knows, is a ser-
vant of the Demon Princes and a commander of the
Legions of the Damned. Since their banishment to
the Void after the First Battle of Titan, however, the
Demon Princes were thought tu have been defeated
for ever. And yet one of their servants is now
reported to have been seen. This tale comes from an
old scavenger calling himself Drek who discovered
a rumed temple near Zengis. Scratching around in
the dirt in search of anything he might be able to
sell, Drek found a black clay pot, corked and sealed
with black wax. His curiosity proved too much for
him and he broke the pot on a stone, hoping that it
might contain gold or jewels. But his excitement
soon furned to terror at the sight of what happened
next. As soon as the black pot broke apart, Drek was
deafened by the most hideous and evil cry that he
had ever heard in his life. Slowly a mist started to
form, growing ever larger and darker, until it
coalesced in the shape of a black robe wrapped
around a body that was invisible save only for two
pulsating. blood-red eyes. Drek screamed in total
fear, but the Shadow Demon he had released simply
turned and disappeared. The chaos-spawn was to
grow again on Titan.
On the strength of Drek’s story, you post recruit
ment notices all over Fang. The honour of fighting
alongside someone of your renown — with the
added bonus of payment in gold — draws a long line
of hopeful warriors outside the tavern where you
intend to hire your soldiers. Many are alone, others
come in groups, but all are eager to sign up. Some
tell of old adventures, others of monsters slain. But
you recognize the qualities you seek and before
nightfall your troops are chosen. Not knowing what
dangers you will face, you decide not t hire all the
warriors who have come, so as to have some gold
left for the journey. You count the commission
sheets and find that you have hired 100 Warriors, 50
Dwarfs, 50 Elven Archers and 20 Knights. In the
moming you buy food, provisions and baggage
mules. When everything is paid for, you are left
with 7oo Gold Pieces which you put in a wooden
chest and strap to one of the mules. You make your
way to the town square where your small army is
assembled. Each unit leader is handed a yellow
banner with the symbol of a buming sword em-
blazoned across it. To the cheers of the citizens of
Fang, you lead your army out through the cast gate
tawards an unknown and deadly foe.

NOW TURN TO 1,

I

You have marched no more than two hundred
yards when a fat, bearded man, huffing and puff-
ing, runs up alongside you. He is dressed as a
sea captain, although his uniform is dirty and
crumpled, and his grubby hat is dented. ‘Begging
your pardon,” gasps the captain, ‘but would you
listen to my offer? I have just dacked my ship in
Fang and found everybody full of excitement. It
seems that you are the cause of it. They tell me that
you are travelling east to fight some demon or
something. Well, | don’t know about any demons,
but I'm willing to take youand your men on my ship
as far as Zengis — for a small consideration, of
course. fust think of all those miles you won't have
to walk. Sail up the River Kok in Captain Barnock’s
good ship Flying Toucan. And only 50 Gold Pieces
am | asking for this luxury passage, Now, that’s a
bargain, is it not?’ says the old sea-dog. If you wish
to sail on the Fiying Tovcan, turn to 37- If you would
rather continue marching, turn to 225.

2-4

2

With your shield held above your head, you start
to climb, The Blog shuffles befveen the upper
branches, trying to geta clear shotai you. With only
one hand free with which to dimb, you suddenly
lose your grip on a branch, Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 396. If you are Unlucky, tum to 140.

3
‘I’m not interested in talking,’ the rogue says
sternly. ‘Now shutupand goaway. Ifyou decide to
da as he says and move to another table where the
three vagabonds are sitting, turn to 18. If you would
rather continue talking, turn to 152-

4
Each EH fires two arrows at the fifty Fire Imps. To
determine how many Fire Imps are shot out of the
sky, multiply the number of Elves in your army by
Gyo, then deduct the total of two dice, rolled for the

5

number of misses. Against the remaining Fire Imps,
you must fighta Skirmish Battle with thirty Warriors.
If you win, tum to 316.

5

The backpack hits its target, sending the sword
crashing to the floor with a loud clatter. The FIf
Starts fo cry with relief as you cut the ropes that are
binding her. ‘Thank you,’ she sobs, ‘thank yau for
saving my life.’ She then pulls a ring olf her fi inger

and says, ‘Please take this ring as a token of my
gratitude. it will bring you luck.” If you wish to lake
the ring, turn to 270. If you prefer to refuse her srift,

retrieve your backpack and rejoin your men out-
side, turn to 211.

6-8

6
Your army marches two abreast along the path and
makes gaod progress. The path ends at another
clearing. Here you see many spears stuck in the
ground, their fps pointing upwards, on which
human skulls are skewered. If you wish to walk
through the clearing, turn to 48. If you would rather
walk around it under cover of the trees, turn to 389.

7
Your losses are greater than you had expected. Ten

Warriors and ten Elves died on board the Flying
Toucan, and five Dwarfs and fifteen Knights were
drowned in the river, dragged under the water by
the weight of their armour_ Lose 1 point from your
Luck. The survivors seem reassured to have firm
ground underfoot once more and are keen to start
marching. You decide to set off straight away,
hoping to reach Zengis the following day. Turn to
366.

8
‘Well answered, my friend,’ says the Oracle. ‘Now,
the final test. | want you to perform some magic for
me. Youcan hearme, but you cannot see me-_ I think
we should be equals. Make yourself invisible!’ Ifyou
own 2 pet Hopper, turn to 224. If you do not own
this creature, turn to 208.

Q-13

9

The arrows all miss the fast-climbing target, and
saon the Wyvern and its rider are no more than
a speck in the sky heading towards the eastern
horizon, Aware that Agglax might send more
would-be assassins, you give the order to march
on to Claw, but with your troops in much closer
formation. Turn to 220.

10

You reach into your backpack and pull out the brass
owl. ‘Put it down on the floor,’ continues the
Oracle. ‘Good. But, alas, lam very greedy and want
something else. Do you havea green vase you could
give me?’ If you have a green vase and can remem-
ber how many Gold Pieces it cost, turn to that
number. lf you do not possess a green vasc, turn fo

297.

il
You feel no different for having drunk the water,
apart from feeling more refreshed. Neither
poisoned nor filled with sudden energy, you walk
rather disappointedly through the cave and down
the passage in the wall opposite. Turn to 227-

12-13

12

Not long after midnight, something disturbs your
sleep and you wake to see a bight moonlit sky.
Barely moving your head, you look left and right
and see a shadow moving near some barrels tied
amidships. On the bridge there is no sign of the
lookout and you immediately sense danger. Grab-
bing your sword, you tip-toe towards the barrels,
crouched down, Something that glints in the moon-
light is suddenly hurled at you without warning.
instinctively you duck. Roll two dice. If the number
rolled is the same as or less than your SKILL, turn to

246. If the number rolled is greater than yoursKILL,
turn to 267-

13
There is a loud sound of clashing steel as the two
arnues mect. The fighting is fierce and bloody and,
although heavily outnumbered, you gain a little
ground. In the centre of the fighting, you find
yourself battling it out with one of the largest Trolls
of all, the fearsome Hill Troll.

HILL TROLL

If you win, turn to 142.

SKILL 9 STAMINA 10
14

14

You find yourself the only challenger, everybody

else being unwilling to take on the great Big Belly
Man. The Dwarf tells you that there isa purse of 100
Gold Pieces for the person who can defeat Big Belly
Man and that the entry fee is 10 Gold Pieces. You
pay him the money and sit down at the table to
await the return of the champion. Yet another cheer
goes upas the crawd parts to let the big man back to
the table, Two more Dwarfs follow him, each wear-
ing cook’s clothes and carrying a tray with an enor
mous steaming pie on top. Big Belly Man sits at the
table and shuffles his chair forward to squeeze his
stomach into the recess. A pie is then putin front of
you and your nostrils twitch at the mingled aroma of
fish and custard. You are handed a wooden spoon
and the Dwarf then shouts, “Ready! Steady! Gof’
You plunge your spoon into the pie and begin to eat.

To determine who wins, dice must be rolled. Roll
one die and add this number to your SKILE Score.
After making a note of the total, roll the die again
and add the new number to Big Belly Man's pie-
eatiny: ability, which is 13. Note this total too_ Roll
the die again and add the number to your current
score, and then again for Big Belly Man. Continue
until Big Belly Man’‘s score reaches 40 first (turn to
388) or your own score reaches 40 first (turn fo 60).

15-16

15
Through a gap in the bushes, you notice the
entrance toa small cave not far from the path. Ifvou
wish to look inside the cave, turn to 87. Ifyou would
rather march on, turn to 181-

16

The guard also manages to dispose of his attacker
and thanks you for raising the alarm, You tell him in
future to keep his eves open on both the land and
the river. The other guards report nothing strange,
$0 you retum to your blanket and sleep. You set off
on your march again in the early morning, hoping to
reach Zengis by nightfall. After an hour or so, you
meet an old man walking in the opposite direction.
‘You're the one who’s going to fight Agglax, aren't
you?’ he says boldly. You nod in agreement. ‘Good!’
he continues. “Then I suggest that when you come
to the fork in the river, you follow the north branch
until you reach the village of Claw. There are plenty
of Hill Men up there who would be ready to join
your army.” You thank the old man for the informa-
fon and press on eastwards. After an hour you
come to the fork in the river that the old man was
talking about. If you wish to follow the north
branch, turn to 350. If you would rather cross over
the new branch and follow the main river east-
wards, turn to 49-
17-18

i?
You round 2 corner of the passageway and see the
sihouette of something blocking your way. It
appears to be a human shape and a robe covers its
head. As you move closer to see better, the figure
suddenly furns back the robe to reveal a woman's
hideous face with a mass of wriggling snakes on her
head in place of hair. Looking into her sickly red
eyes, You arc caught by the Medusa’s stare. Your
limbs immediately stiffen and moments later you
are nothing but solid stone.

18
You sit down at the table with the three vagabonds
and they immediately introduce themselves as Enk,
Laz and Jip. They ask you what you are doing in
Zengis. If you wish to tell them about your mission,
turn to 395. If you would rather tell them that you
are in Zengis to visit your cousin, turn to 35-
19-21

719
The girl smiles as she hands you your winnings and
says, “What about a fp for a hard-working gil? If
you wish to toss her a Gold Piece, tum to 347. Ifyou
would rather leave the gambling-hallatonce, tum to
oo ot ds

20

‘Excellent!’ booms the Oracle's voice as you pull out
the vase from your backpack. “Now I'm going to ask
you a question, but I'll Jet fate decide on its difit-
culty. Let me roll my dice,” Test your Luck If you are
Lucky, turn to 341. If you are Unlucky, tum to 263.

21

Before the River Raiders close with your ship,
another fireball is flung from the catapult. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, tum to 159. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 74.

22-24

22

As you enter the stable, the Shapechanger throws
the half-strangled Dwarf to the floor and tums its
bloodied claws towards you.

SHAPECHANGER

If you win, turn to 3&1.

SKILL 10 STAMINA 10)

23

At such a short range, the hurled rock is deadly. It
crashes into the side of your head and you fall down
among the other brave soldiers wha died t save
Allansia. Demoralized by your death, your army
tums and flees. Agglax is victorious.

24
The Goblin topples out of its saddle and crashes to

the ground, dying with the impact. A search of the
Goblin’s pockets reveals a bowstring and five
arrowheads, which are of no use to you, but you
also discover a bone pendant with the number ‘8’
scratched on the base. Keep the pendant if you
wish, before giving the order to march on to Claw.
Turn to 220.
25-26

25
You hold on to the rope and let an Elf lower himself
down into the dark hole, holding a burning torch
between his teeth. You watch him ae on to the
floor of a large chamber. ‘Nothing in here,’ comes a
cry from ae ‘except for a terrible stink of animal
droppings. There’s a tunnel Jeading away from the
cavern, but] can’t see where it leads to. Do you want
me ta go down it?” Lf you wish the Elf to go down the
tunnel, turn to 198. If you tell him to climb back up
the rape so that you can leave the clearing, turn to

345-

26

You decide to spare the life of the barman and let
him stagger across to his friends to have his wounds
attended to. Then you tum to the crowd and say, ‘l
am here in search of brave warriors 10 jon my army
io fight the Shadow Demon that brings death to

=

Allansia. My payment is 10 Gold Pieces, but | want
only the best fighters.” Within halfan hour you have
fifteen Warriors signed up; vou tell them where to go
to join your waiting army; they are to meet Lexon,
who will pay them (deduct 150 Pieces from your
Adventure Sheet}. Seeing no other characters of in-
terest, you leave ‘The Black Dragon’ to see what else
you can find in Zengis, Turn to 382,

27
‘Well, if you don’t want te visit the Oracle, there’s
not much point in going to the Starstone Caves. Is
there anywhere else you would like to get to?’ You
reply that you would like to go through the Forest of
Inends. Turn to 319.

4
a

. Ra “46 ate Sa ‘

28-30

28
fen of the Elves accompany you as you walk
stealthily into the wood, sword in hand, You can
hear the cries for help quite clearly yourself now, as
you slip quickly from behind one tree to the next.
Suddenty, in front of you vou see a wooden cage
suspended by a rope from the branch of a tree. You
see another close by with two arms sticking out
between the wooden boards, You count eleven
cages in total, each one probably holding a man.
if you wish to make yourself knawn to the men in
the cages, turn to 182. If you would rather retreat
quietly out of the wood and rejoin your troops, turn

to 143.

You avenge the death of your troops with one quick
thrust of your sword. You call out to your Warriors
to return to the path and march on. Turn to 130.

30

You pay the leader of the Northmen 100 Gold Pieces
and give the order for him and his men to climb on
board ship. As you set sail once more, the leader
walks over to you; despite his stare from piercing
ice-blue eyes, you feel you can trust him. ‘My name
is Laas,” he says with a warm smile. ‘Would you
allow me to bestow a gift upon you?" If you want to
take the gift, turn to 358. If you would rather refuse
politely, turn to 390.
31-33

31

You climb down a metal-runged ladder that is
secured to the side of the wall, until you reach the
cewer below. The foul stench rising from the sludge
thatis flowing slowly by makes you heave. Looking
down the sewer you see what appears to be the
flickering flame ofa candle and you can just hear the
sound ofa whispering voice. You are conyinced that
ihere must be more Sewer Goblins ahead. If you
wish to walk down the sewer, tum lo 232. L you
would rather climb back up the ladder, turn fo 300.

32

‘You are very unobservant, my inend,’ the Oracle
informs you solemnly. ‘1 am unable to assist any-
body svho is not worthy of my powers. Goodbye.’
The eves of the stone face close again and you ere
left to ponder what to do next. You hear a grating
sound behind you; looking round, you see a section
of wail sliding back, You have no alternative but to
step into the tunnel that has appeared. Turn to 260.

33

Many men struggle through the marsh to help you,
attacking the Mudgrinder from all sides. But its
tough hide is hard to pierce and itis all you can doto
defend yourself, You realize that you will have to
attack its soft underbelly so you lunge forward with
your sword as the Mudgrinder rears up to attack
some Diwaris to its left. Roll two dice. If the total is
the same or less than your SKILL, turn to 392. If the
total is greater than your SKILL, turn to 256.

34735

Twenty warriors cross safely before you step on to
the bridge yourself, You are about halfway across
when suddenly a rope snaps, sending everybody
on the bridge plummeting to their deaths at the
dottom of the chasm.

35
‘That's strange,’ says Enk. ’A lot of people seem to
come to Zengis to visit relatives. Nobody ever seems
to be here on business — not that we don't believe
you, or anvthing like that. Where does your cousin
live? Perhaps we can give you directions?’ Will you
reply:

Rubble Street? Turn to 92
That it is none of their business? Turn to 223
That you must be on your way? Turn to 311

36-37

36

‘Come on, follow me,’ Thog says jovially to hearten
the nervous troops. ‘There's nothing more than a
few trees and a couple of monkeys.” As you venture
into the forest, the daylight quickly fades under a
thick canopy of leaves overhead, and the whole
place is deathly quiet. “The creatures are watching
us,’ whispers Thog, “but the little ones around the
edge won't do us any harm. It’s later on that we
should start to get worried. We'll go nght here to
avoid the Tree Men.’ Your army threads its way
through the forest, and on into its darkest depths.
Turn to 180.

/
Following Captain Barnock, you lead your men
down to the docks where the Flymy Toucan is
moored. It is an old ship and, like the captain, is in
very poor condition. But this hardly comes as a
surprise to you, as nothing of much worth ever
comes out of Port Blacksand. You tell your men to
go aboard and pay Captain Barnock his 50 Gold
Pieces (deduct these from your Adventure Sheet). The
captain shouts the order to set sail, and you watch
the motley crew from the bridge as they haul on the

38

ropes, climb the rigging and unfurl the sails. Within
twenty minutes, Fang has faded from view as your
nver journey gets under way. Everybody is in high
spirits and even the Dwarfs and Elves forget their
differences and chat together, united in their desire
to md Allansia of the Shadow Demon. At the bow
you see a group of Warriors leaning over the side of
the ship, staring at the river. Suddenly one of them
points upriver and shouts, “Look! A barrel, floating
towards us.’ You look over the side and see the
large, sealed barrel bobbing in the water. If you
want to order one of your men to dive into the water
in order to haul in the barrel, turn to 145. If you
would rather sail on without stopping, turn to 346.

38
You come across a worn track which runs north and
south. You decide to follow it to the south and soon
you arrive ata signpost which also points south and
reads, ‘Karn —5 miles’. If you wish to keep heading
south towards Karn, turn to 266. Ifyou would rather
head south-east, turn to 331.

39-40

39

Agelax shrinks back in his chair when he sees the
Crystal of Light in your hands. Covering his face
with his hands, he suddenly jumps down from the
chairand runs away, hissing orders ata group ot his
black-robed Elite Fanatics standing close by. One
blocks your way to Ageglax; his curved sward held in
both hands above his head, the grim assassin is
more than willing to die to save his master. “Tanaka
San say you die!’ he shrieks as he darts forward to
cut you down where you stand.

ELITE FANATIC SKILL 10 STAMINA 10

If you win, turn to 254.

40
You tell the barman that you have no time orinclina-
tion to make a fool of yourself by performing drunk-
en tricks for his seedy customers, and that you are
here to hire brave warriors to fight Agylax, the
Shadow Demon. A frown pushes down his dark,
bushy eyebrows as he suddenly looks intensely
interested in what you are saying. ‘Well, why didn't
you tell me that in the first place?’ he says with a
smile which suddenly lights up his face. ‘I know all
the best fighters in town and most of them are in
here now! Within half an hour you have another
fifteen Warriors signed up; you tell them where to
go to join your waiting army; they are to meet
Lexon, who will pay them io Gold Pieces each
(deduct 150 Gold Pieces from your Adventure Stiee!).
You finally shake hands with the big barman and
41-42

leave ‘The Black Dragon’ to find other things or
people of interest in Zengis. Turn to 382.

41

You stand in the centre of the floor, sword in hand,
to face the warrior woman. Without warning she
suddenly leaps forward, cutting her sword down
through the air. Instinctively you raise your sword
to ward off the blow.

MAX SKILL 112

If you are the first to strike, turn to 195- If Max strikes
the first blow, turn to 385-

STAMINA 7T

42

Drinking the Water of the Gods has saved you from
a horrible death. ‘The radiating glow gradually dies
down and soon you are back to normal. You look
round the cave and find no exits leading fom it A
man’s face is carved in the rock wall, its eyes dosed
and iis mouth open. As you walk over to examine it
closer, the eyes open and a deep voice booms out of
the mouth, saying, ‘Iam the Oracle. Although you
are nat welcome here, | admire your determination
and effort. No matter how noble your cause, you
must pay for the answers to your questions. I too
will ask you questions in return. Answer any in-
correctly and you will pay with your life. I will start
the proceedings, as | know everything. First, you
may start by bestowing gifts upon me. You were in
Zengis recently. I hope you took the troubie to buy
me a brass awl, and J must know how much you

43745

paid for it.” If you have a brass owl and can remem-
der how many Gold Pieces you paid for it, turn to
that number. If you do nat have a brass owl, turn to
206.

$3

By now many of your men are awake; none of them
appears to have come to any harm, apart from the
lookout who is nursing a sore head, haying been
allacked from behind by the midnight raider. An
extta man is put on watch while everybody else
settics down to sleep once again. Not long after
dawn, Captain Barnock gives the order to set sail
upriver. Tumto188.

44
“Your luck is in, my fiend,’ continues the Oracle.
‘But Lam greedy and desire something else. Now,
do you have a green vase?’ If you have a green vase
and can remember how many Gald Pieces it cost,
hum to that number, If you do not possess a preen
vase, turn lo 297.

45
The ring fits perfectly on the finger and you watch
with amazement as the clenched fist slowly opens.
Sparkling in the middle of the stone palm lies a
peautitul crystal. The king’s lips suddenly open and
a voice booms out, ‘I give you the Crystal of Light!’
You take the crystal and run back to your waiting
troops, full of excitement. After showin 4 them your
treasure, you march on along the path. Turn to 130.
46-49

46

The key turns in the slot and you hear a faint click.
You then hear a hissing sound and inhale some of
the gas that is escaping from the slot before you
have a chance lo realize what is happening. It is
a deadly poison and you slump to the ground,
clutching your throat and gasping for air. Your
quest is over.

47

‘I'm sure you'll find this crow very good company.
His name is Billy and he even understands the odd
word in Orcish. Ten Gold Pieces is an absolute
bargain for such a fine crow, if I say so myself.’ If
you wish to buy the crow, turn to 245. Ifyou would
rather leave the shop without buying the crow, furn
to 218.

48
A shiver runs down your spine as you walk between
the spears, In the middle of the clearing you find a
mound of freshly turned-over earth and a shovel
lying near by. lf you wish to dig into the mound,
turn to 98. If you would rather keep walking, turn to
315.

49

The rest of the day passes without inadent and, as
the light begins to fade, you give the order to setup
camp at a defensible spot no more than ten miles
distant from Zengis. As you settle down to sleep,
having feasted on stewed rabbit, your mind drifts

051

over the events of the day, but within seconds you
are asicep. If you are wearing a beetle amulet round
your neck, turn to 128. If you are not wearing this
amulet, turn to 279.

50

Early next morming you rouse your men and are
soon marching south-east. At noon you stop for
food but are soon on the march again. By late
afternoon you can see a row of hills in the distance-
‘Starstone Caves,” says a man from Zengis. You
arrive at the caves before dusk and decide to enter
them alone. With a candle in one hand and your
sword in the other, you clamber down into the
mouth of a large, dark cave. Tur to 219.

51

Nobody has any belladonna. An hour later you are
shaking uncontrollably in the grip of a raging fever.
Hair begins to sprout from your cheeks and arms
and your face begins to change shape unbl it re-
sembles the Werewolf that bit you. Watching in
horror, your troops make the anguished decision to
put you out of your misery. Their leader dead and
morale gone, your army abandons the crusade
against Agulax.

32-53

52

Two minutes later, you see a cooked wooden sign

hangine over the door of an old wooden building. A
crude drawing of 2 dragon is painted on it, above
the words “The Black Dragon’. There is much shout-
ing and laughter coming from inside the tavern and
you decide to enter at once. You climb a few well-
worn stone steps and push open the heavy oak
door. Even though it is daytime, the tavern is dark
inside and candles are burning as the small grubby
window's let in virtually no daylight. From the door-

way you see that the tavern is bustling with life,
although none of it looks tou savoury. Groups of
cloaked vagabonds are huddled together in dark
corners, while boisterous rogues, much the worse
for the ale they have already drunk, sitin the middle
of the tavern insulting all who pass by them, includ-
ing the harassed barmaids who have to squeeze
between the tables carrying their loaded trays. You
look from table to table and decide where to sit. Will
you:

Sit at the bar? Turn to 197

Sit with a drunken rogue? Turn to 378

Sit with three vagabonds? Turn to 18
53

You soon come to a dead end and, sensing danger,
furn and run. But before you can reach the mouth
entrance, the upper stone teeth slide down to block
your exit. Trapped inside the tunnel, death by
Starvation awaits you.
54-56

54

Half an hour after eating the apples, some of the
soldiers become ill, yourself included. Deduct 2
points fram your STAMINA and 2 point from your
SKILL. Their health quickly deteriorates, and two
die quite quickly. Before the day is over, five in all
have died. Make the deduction on your Adveriure
Sheet and also deduct 1 point from your Leck, You
regret your decision to give the apples to your men
and resolve not to be distracted from your maim
objective in future, Turn to 209.

55
The servant of Agelax lies still on the ground, your
sword having penetrated the only soft spot on its
body, a small section of its otherwise rock-like
stomach. Satisfied that the Rock Man will not fight
on the side of Evil again, you give the order to march
on. Turn to 114.

: 56
Not knowing whether you haye made the nght
decision to trust the vagabond, you nevertheless
hand over 100 Gold Pieces to them. Laz takes aut
a map from under his robes and lays it out open
on the table. Zengis is shown in the middle, and to
the south is marked the village of Kam. Further
south-east are the Starstone Caves. To the east of
Zengis there is the Forest of Fiends, which starts
where the River Kok splits and runs east, almost to
the edge of the map, Laz takes out a black cayon
and marks a large crass on the eastern edge of the

57-58

map, just where the Forest of Fiends ends. ’That’s
where you'll find him,’ says Laz. You fold up the
map and put itin your tunic pocket. “And your only
hope of defeating Agglax rests on your visiting the
Oracle,” whispers Jip. ‘But whether or not the
Oracle will talk to you is another matter. lt depends
on what mood the Oracle is in and what gifts you
bring him. The Starstone Caves is where you'll find
him.” You thank the vagabonds for the information
and leave the tavern to explore Zengis further,
wondering who the Oracle is. Turn to 382.

57
‘So, you are another foolish person who wishes to
see the Oracle, are you?’ If you decide to reply ‘Yes’,
tum to 144. If vou prefer to reply ‘No’, turn to 27.

58
You suddenly catch sight of a grubby sackcloth bag
lying hidden in the grass. You cut it open with your
sword and, much to your surprise and pleasure,
find ro Gold Pieces. You call cheerfully to your men,
telling them it is ime to more on, and in minutes
you are on the march again. Turn to 274.

es

59-60

59

Their numbers dwindling by the minute, your
troops are completely demoralized. Only yards
away from the enemy line, they tur and fice in
disarray. You scream at them to stand and fight, but
you cannot prevent them running away. Then
many hands grab you and you are led in chains to
Agylax for execution.

The crowd is stunned into silence when you drop
your spoon into the empty bow! to signal victory.
Big Belly Man, his mouth still crammed full of pie,
shows his anger by brushing the pic bowl off the
table so that it smashes on the floor, Shaking his
head in disblief, the Dwarf hands you the purse
containing’ 100 Gold Pieces. If you would like to
siand on the table and make a speech about Agglax
and your wish to hire ten stout fighters in exchange
for the gold you have just won, tum to 165. If you
would rather leave with the gold, turn to. 95.

61-62

You shake your head and just manage ta keep your
balance as you hear the bellowing laugh of the
barman behind you. You slump down in a chair at
the table nearest to you, sometwhat the worse for
dnnk. Deduct 1 point fom yoursTa Min a. Rollone
die. If you roll 1-3, you find yourself sitting with a
drunken rogue (turn to 378). If you roll 4—6, you find
yourself sitting with three vagabonds (turn tu 18).

62
Another Goblin sees you move towards the em-
battled Warrior, Recognizing you as the leader, the
Goblin points its crossbow at you, takes careful aim
and fires. If you hired Max’s Marauders in Zengis,
turn to 453. If you did not hire the warrior woman’‘s
iithters, burn to 339.

63-65

63

The street door opens into a single room in the
centre of which two men are engaged in a practice
sword-fight with wooden swords. They are being
watched by seven other men. At the far end of the
room, a striking blonde woman wearing leather
armour is shouting out instructions to the two
fighters. ‘Stop!’ she shouts suddenly. ’Take a rest
while T see what this intruder wants.’ She walks
over to you and says, ‘T’m Max and these are my
boys. Do you want to join them or hire them?’ You
reply that you may be interested in hiring them. ‘My
boys are the best. 200 Gold Pieces and all ten of us
are yours.” Will you:

Pay Max the price she wants? Turn to 124

Hagele over the price? Turn to 255

Refuse the offer and leave? Turn to 314
64

The guards call out for you tostep, but you run onas
fast as you can, keeping an eye out for a tavern inlo
which to dash. Turn to 52.

65
The street furns sharply right and you soon lind
yourself back at the main entrance-gates to Zengis.
Remembering your promise to Lexon, you decide to
return to your waiting army. Turn to 113,

<a

66-68

66
You manaxe to free a hand and stab the brutal beast
in its foot with your sword, Tt roars in pain and, a
split second Jater, you are free and up on your feet.
Now you have a better chance against the flesh-
eater.

NANDIBRAR

[f you win, burn to 362.

STAMINA iI

SKILL G

The agile Tlill Man suddenly makes his move and,
before you have time to react, you are knocked to
the ground by a flying Gvo-footed Kick. You land
with your face in the dirt and feel a sharp pain
in your arms as they are twisted up behind your
back in a vice-like grip. You try to break free, but
struggling only increases the pain and you are
forced to submit to Vine. Turn to 213.

68
You come to a wide clearing in the forest in which
there is a large boulder. The clearing is strewn with
bones and the boulder is spattered with dried
blood. If you wish to wait on the edge of the dearing

69-70

with your army to see if anyone or anything will
come back toit, tum to 252. If you would rather walk
through the clearine, turn to 312.

6g

Ten of your 'Yarriors fall prey to the Harpoon Flies,
their bodies to provide food in the coming weeks far
the maggots that hatch out inside them. Eventually
the Ifarpoon Flies zoom off and you lead your men
dejectedly back to the ship. Deduct 1 point [rom
your tuck. Captain Barmock realizes you are in no
mood for early morning chatter and gives the order
to set sail upriver. Turn to 188.

7O

The Werewolf catches sight of your charm and
becomes frozen to the spot, rigid with fear. Without
any Strugele, vou are able to dispose of the Were-
wolfwith one thrust of voursword. But you find that
the guard is dead. The rest of the night passes
without further incident and in the morning you
lead your army out of the forest, across the new

plain. Turn to 323.

T1-73

71
The barman looks at you in astonishment, then
picks up a wooden club from behind the bar. He
storms out from hehind the bar, shouting, ‘I'm
going to teach this upstart a lesson.” You slide off
your stool and draw your sword to face the huge
brute as the drinkers crowd araund to get a good
view of the fight. ‘Mince him, Fats!’ shouts a voice
from the crowd. ‘Hurry up, Fats, I want another
drink,’ roars another. Then the fight begins.

BARMAN

If you are first to win three Attack Rounds, turn to
26. If the barman is first to win three Attack Rounds,

turn to 227.

SKILL Y STAMINA

Another half-hour passes and the paralysis starts to
wear off, Feeling returns to your limbs and soon you
are able to move freely. Turn to 284.

73
You quickly raise your shield-arm to block the flying

dart. The Blog turns to run away, and disappears
into the bushes. If you wish to give chase, turn to

74-75

171. lf you would rather call your troops back to the
path and march on, turn to 130.

74
the fireball crashes into the mainmast and drops on

to the deck, killing five of your men. [wo Dwarfs
guickly smother the fireball with wet blankets,
averting a fre on board. Turn to 192,

75

While your warriors are recovering, you wonder
what plans Agglax is hatching; somewhere beyond
the Forest of Fiends he awaits vou and your army,
When your warriors are finally well enough to
march again, you decide to go straight for Agglax,
50 You turn your army east towards the Forest of
Fiends. After crossing one of the tributaries that
teed the River Kok, you come to the edge of the
sombre forest. Dark, twisted trees reach high to
form a threatening wall; a whisper of uncertainty
runs through the ranks of the army. You break the
eene silence by shouting the order to march into the
forest; the daylight quickly dwindles under a thick
canopy of leaves overhead. Only the high shrilling
of fightened monkeys occasionally wakes the silent
forest. After half an hour, a scout reports back to tell
you that he has spotted a group of wooden huts,
almost hidden by overgrowing vegetation, If you
wish to go with ten men to this village, turn to 238. If
you would rather march on with your army, turn to
180.
76-77
76

The passageway opens up into another cave,
although this one is completely empty. However,
you have a choice of exits. In the far wall you see the
mouths of three tunnels, cach one carved to re-
semble the open mouth of a strange creature, the
Gkes of which you have never seen before. You
notice that three of the teeth in the upper jaws of the
carved heads have numbers chiselled int» them.
Choose whichever tunnel you wish to go down and
turn to the appropnate number.

77
The old wooden door is stiff and you have to put

your shoulder to it to openit. As the door flies open,
you hear the piercing scream of a female voice and
are Startled by what you see. A young Elf is tied ta
the top of a table, which is bolted to the floor in the
muddle of the rubbish-strewn hut. Two yards above
her stomach hangs a sword, suspended by a single
thread of cotton which is looped over the end of an
on spike; this protrudes honzontally from a
wooden beam leading down into a hole in the
nckety floorboards. “Don't move!’ shouts the Elf.
‘One of the Hoorboards will trigger the release of the
sword if you step on it." You have to decide whether
or not to save the Elf. Will you:

Run in to grab the sword? Tum to 154
Throw your backpack at the sword? Turn to 205
Leave the Elf and march on? Tum to 320
78-80

738

You set off quickly down the street before attracting
the atlention of anybody else. You feel a lump inside
your clothing and suddenly remember the leather
pouch. You take it out and unte the cord that is
keeping it closed. Turning it upside down, you
shake the contents out on to your hand, and are
alarmed to discover a scorpion on your palm. Test
your Luck. W you are Lucky, turn to 253- If you are
Unlucky, tur to 240.

79
Sensing that you are in trouble, Agglax prepares for
his moment of tiumph. Turn to 3072.

80

The bluebotile hesitates for a second before scurry-
ing on to the jam that you chose. Add 1 point to
your LUCK. The man unclips his brooch and hands
it to you without saying a word, his face remaining
expressioniess. You examine the beautiful brooch,
which has on it a fire-breathing dragon shown in
relief. You turn ii over and notice the number “89
scratched on the back. You make a mental note of
the number and pin the brooch on to your tunic. li
you wish to ask the rogue his name, turn to3. Ifyou
would rather leave him and move to another table to
sit with the three yagabonds, turn to 18.

81-83

81
I'm sorry,” he says, ‘1 do go on a bit, don’t I?” He
hands you your key and vou climb the stairs to your
room. Turn to 376.

82
You avenge the death of your troops with one swilt
thrust of your sword. You climb down from the tree
2nd call out to your wartiors to return to the path
and march on. Turn to 130.

83

Five of your Warmiors fall prey to the Harpoon Flies,
their bodies to provide food in the coming weeks for
the maggots that will hatch out inside them-
Eventually the Harpoon Flies zoom off and you lead
your men dejectedly back to the ship. Deduct 1
point from your LUcK. Captain Bamock wastes no
time and sets sail upriver straight away, sensing
your desire to get away from this place of ill-fortunc.
Turn to 188.
84

84

The army marches east along the bank of the River
Kok until you reach a major fark. Before you rises a
datk wall of trees twisting skysvards: the sinister-
looking Forest of Fiends. You march north for a
while until you come to a safe section of the tribu-
tary lo cross, There is much whispering among your
troops as you march into the forest where the day-
light quickly fades under the thick canopy of leayes
overhead. Only the high shrilling of frightened
monkey's occasionally disturbs the strange silence of
the forest. As you penetrate deeper, the trees be-
come very dense and it is slow work threading the
army between them, If you wish to press on, turn to
155. lf you would like to send out a scout to find an
-easier way through the forest, turn to 120.

85-86

85

The floor of the tunnel becomes steeper, and walk-
ing up it is quite an effort. But your legs suddenly
feel full of running when you see a patch of white
leht ahead. The air smells fresher; soon you are out
of the cave and standing in broad daylight at the
mouth of a cave only a hundred yards away from
your men. They are sitting in a circle, patiently
waiting for you to appear from the cave that you
entered not long ago. You call out lo them and run
to where they are sitting to tell them of yaur under-
ground adventure. You decide to return to your
waiting army without further delay.

But the journey back starts with an unwelcome
encounter. You see a dust-cloud approaching and
soon hear the sounds of galloping hoofs, Ten hostile
Centaurs charge down upon you. You must fight a
Shrnush Battle. Tf you win, turn to 299.

86
The moment your swords are drawn, fifteen Hill
Men appear as if from nowhere. Dressed in animal
skins and armed with stone clubs and axes, the
long-haired men run towards you on their wiry
legs, screaming at the top of their voices. You must
fight a Skirmish Batile. If you win, turn to 340.
87-89

87
As you step into the half-light of the cave, your leg
brushes against some sticky threads. Asif an alarm
had been sounded, a huge hairy spider crawls out
from the depths of the cave to ensnare the prey that
has stumbled into its lair. You must fight for your

GIANT SPIDER SKILL 7 STAMINA &

if you win, turn to 275-

88
You hear a rustling sound coming from behind
some thick bushes and suddenly ten huge Goblin-
like creatures jump out wielding axes and cleavers.
Well over eight feet tall, the brown-skinned Garks
rush forward to attack. You must fight a Skinnish
Battle. If you win, turn to 259.

89
‘Thank you so much,’ says the Oracle. ‘And now,
how can I help you?” You explain that you believe
the Oracle can help vou to defeat Agglax; you ask if
this is true. ‘So, vou wish to destroy the Shadaw
Demon? It is good that you have your army with
you, a5 you would never reach Agglax alone. His
forces are too great in number for you to slip
through them. You must battle your way through to
him. You will find a trail of destruction east of the
Forest of Fiends. Follow that trail and you will soon
catch up with the Shadow Demon’s army of death.
Even if you destroy his army, however, Agglax will
90-91

fight on alone. Your weapons will not harm him.
Only a void spell will obliterate the Demon. You
must find the Crystal of Light. When you are within
six feet of Agglax, hold the crystal in both hands and
say ‘Three, two, one — begone-” That is how you
will rid this land of the Shadow Demon. Goodbye
and good luck.” The eyes of the stone face close
again and you hear a grating sound behind you.
Looking raund, you see a section of wall sliding
back. Filled with new confidence, you step into the
tunnel that is revealed. Turn to 280-

You do not trigger the release of the sword and are
able to grab it and throw il aside. The Elf starts to cry
with relief as you cut the ropes that are binding her.
‘Thank you,’ she sobs. “Thank you for saving my
life.” She then pulls a ning off her finger and holds it
oul to you, saying, ‘Please take this ringas a token of
Iny gratitude. It will bring you luck.” If you wish to
take the ring, turn ta 270. lf you prefer to refuse her
gift politely and rejoin your men outside, tum fo
211.

gi
Your Dwarfs battle valiantly against the Chaos
Warriors but are vastly outnumbered. Refusing to
give ground, they stand and fight until the last two
of them are standing back-to-back against the
fanatical adversaries. Then one of them falls be-
neath the blow of a spiked mace and the other is
speared in the back. Your ears ring with the tor-

g2

menting cries of the victorious Chaos Warnors. You
shout out new battle orders, expecting the Chaos
Warriors to attack, but they turn and trot back ta
their own lines. You decide that attack is the best
torm of defence and give the order for your army to
march on the front line of Trolls. Turn & 178.

92
‘Rubble Street?’ Enk continues. ‘That's just off the

street where we live. We'll take you there.’ Unable
to think of a good excuse, you agree to their sugges-
tion. You follow them out of the tavern, walk along
the street for fiye minutes, and thenturnrightintoa
narrow alley. The three men suddenly stap and tum
round, their hands gripping their daggers. ‘Rubble
Strect! There is no Rubble Street in Zengis,’ says Enk
gleefully. ‘Let's get the stranger, lads; those pockets
look to be bulging with gold!’ You draw your sward
quickly as the three yagabonds bear down on you.
Fight them one ata time.

SKILL STAMINA
ENK 8 7
LAZ 7 9
HP 7 §

If you win, turn to 133.

93-97

93
The key tums in the slot and you hear a faint click.
With a coarse grating sound, the stone slab slides
back into the wall and you are able to proceed along
the passageway. Hawever, it soon ends at another
junction. If you wish to go left, turn to 235- If you
wish to go right, turn to 381-

04
The Warrior leaves the man to drift downriver te the
sea and a watery grave. He swims back to the ship
and you are soon underway again. Turn lo 233-

95
On your left you see an alleyway, at the bottom of

which is a pile of barrels. If you wish to go down the
alley to investigate, turn to 352- if you would rather
walk on up the street, turn t0 177-

g6
You come to a narrow part of the chasm where a
huge slab of stone has been placed to forma bridge.
if vou wish to send your army across the stone
bridge, turn to 138. If you would rather march on,
turn to 320.

97
You are consumed by the fireball and are dead even
before your troops can reach you.

98-99
98

The hole you dig is a yard deep when your shovel
strikes something metal. You scrape away the earth
to reveal a section of flatiron. lf you wish to dig on,
tum to 184. If you would rather fill up the hole again
and leave the clearing, turn to 315.

99

‘The Starstone Caves, you say? Yes, I've been there.
Dangerous place, full of traps. They were put there
by the Oracle, who hates visitors. But the Oracle will
speak ta mast people who can survive his traps and
make it to his inner sanctum. It's a challenge, you
see. He hates time-wasters. He'll only spend time
with people who really need to see him, but even
then hell want a few gifts, depending on what
information you seek. | suggest you get yourself a
guide. Go to Kam. That’s about the only place
where you'll Gnd one.” You thank the bounty-
hunter for the information and walk back with him
along the tunnel. Leaving him to collect his evi-
dence from the dead Sewer Goblins, you decide
what to do next. If you have not done so already,
you may inspect the barrels (hirn to 137) or walk
back down the alley and turn left into the street
(turn to 177).

100-101

100
You enter a crowded hall which is full of gaming-
tables and eager punters. Phe whole place is buzz-
mg, with excitement. You watch a girl spin a huge
wheel of fortune and listen to the groans and cheers
of the people surrounding her as the number 33
imally stops against the peg. You watcha few hands
of cards at various tables, but finally decide to play a
game of ‘High-Low’. The girl holding the dice tells
you how to play. You must roll 6vo dice, but before
domg so you must predict whether the number
rolled will be ‘high’ (8—12) or ‘low’ (2-6). The num-
ber 7 is a loser either way. She tells you that youmay
det up tn 50 Gold Pieces and she will give you the
amount you bet if you guess correctly, You may bet
only once, If vou win, turn to 1g. ff you lose, turn to
173.

10%
While taking his axe, you spot a leather pouch on
the Axeman’s belt; before you haye time to open it,
however, you see two town guards running up the
street towards you. If you want to open the pouch
and risk bemg caught, turn to 281. If you would
rather run off with only the gold ring, turn to 64.
102-105

102
The street turns sharply left and then left again and
you saon find yourself back at the main entrance
gates to Zengis. Remembering your pronuse to
Lexon, you decide to return to your walling army.
furn to 113.

103

You struggle as hard as you can, but you are unable
to escape from the vice-like grip of the Nandibear.
The bnutal beast tears at your throat until you are
dead and then begins its long-awaited feast. Your
quesl is over.

et, here

104
Within ten minutes of returning to your weiting
army, you give the order to march. After crossing
the river at a narrow point, you tum south-east
towards Zengis. Turn to 49-

105
The dagger pierces your heart and you sink to your
knees, clutching your chest. Your last thoughts are
of your own stupidity for springing the trap.

106-107

106

Forty of your valiant troops lie dead or dying on the
battlefield. (Reduce the size of your army by this
amount on the Adventure Shvet.} Trolls are trying to
push the brave survivors back, while Goblins and
Orcs attack the flanks remorselessly. Berserk with
battle-lust, some of the Goblins and Orcs at the back
are fighting among themselves, so eayer are they to
feel the clash of steel. To your right you see a
Warrior being attacked from both sides by two
Goblins. Ta your left, another Warrior is being
clubbed to the ground by a Fill Troll. If you wish to
help the Warrior on your left, turn to 269. If you
wish to help the Warrior on your right, tum to 62.

107
The barrel lands in the water witha splash and soon
floats away and out of sight. Turn to 209.

108-109

108
‘Leave no stone unturned when next you come to
visit me. Today, your knowledgeis lacking and Iam
thus unable to assist you. Goodbye,’ the Oracle
intones solemnly. The eyes of the stone head close
again and you are left to ponder what to do next.
You hear a grating sound behind you; looking
round, you see a section of svall sliding back. You
have no alternative but to step into the tunnel that
has appeared. Turn to 280-

109

Two arrows find their mark, one sinking into the
soft underbelly of the Wyvem, the other hitting the
Goblin in the back. It stumps down in its saddle, as
the Wyvern continues to climb into the sky despite
its wound. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to
24. If you are Unlucky, turn to 135.

110-111

rio

The Rat Men possess no treasure and, after dis-
posing of their bodies, you settle down to sleep,
although somewhat uneasily. Turn to 50.

t11
The Hopper makes several peculiar signs with its
funny little hands while uttering a strange noise in
the back of its throat. Suddenly you are invisible.
You clap your hands but cannot see them. A few'
minutes later, you return to your visible state.

There's just one more thing,” the Oracle says frus-
tratingly. ‘I need a gold brooch. My daughter says
she needs one ~ although I don't know what for,
because she is ninety-cight years old. So, if you
would be so kind as to give mea gold browch, [ will
be in a position to help you." If you possess a gold
brooch, turn to the number that is mscnbed on it. [f
you do not possess 2 brooch, turn to 297.

112-113

112
As you open the door, a small brass bell tinkles
above your head. A thin, bearded oid man is sitting
on a stool behind a wooden counter talking to a
large crow, perched on his hand_ ‘Who's an ugly
boy, then?’ squawks the crow in reply, much to
your surpnse. The old man appears unconcemed at
your entrance; you look round the shop and see
many small animals —cats, birds and small rodents —
end also other, strange creatures. ‘here is one that
Sils up on its two hind legs like a kangaroo, butitis
less than two feet tall and is green and Jacks fur.
Another is a small winged creature with leathery
ember skin; it seems quite content to fly from one
side of the shop ta the other. Other creatures are
equally odd and you are standing looking at them in
amazement when the old man suddenly says, “You
are fascinated by my pets, are you not? Are you
interested in buying one of them? I have both
household pets and familiars that can talk. Some are
very special indeed and can even create a little
magic. You look like an adventurer to me, sv |
presume if may be a familiar that you require.
Would you like to buy a talking familiar such as my
crow here (tum to 47) or would you like a special
creature (turn to 369)?

113
You arrive at the camp before noon and are greeted
enthusiastically. You give the order to march. If you
wish to cross the River Kok and and march south,

- » + 2
xy
sf ‘

Se yl Wis =

=
—
™

Za &
BS i Z turn to 262. If you would rather march east towards
_ the Forest of Fiends, turn to 84.

114-117

114
You come to a long, deep chasm which ts too steep
to climb down and too wide to jump across. If you
wish to follow it north, turn to 241. If you would
rather follow it south, turn to 327-

115

Two hours later, you see a small wood one hundred
yards to the north. The Elven Archers suddenly hal:
and tilt their heads towards the wood, their keen
senses obviously aware of something happening.
One of the Fives approaches you and says, ‘We can
hear the cries of seyeral men calling for help from
inside the wood.’ If you wish to see who is calling
out, turn to 28. If you would rather continue march-
ing east, turn to 295-

116
The crossbow bolt whistles past your leftear, hitting
the svall of the tunnel someiwhere in the darkness

behind you. Walking on, you soon come to a dead -

end and find the crassbow from which the bolt was
triggered. There appears to be no way af going on,
and you have no alternative but to walk back down
the tunnel and along the other section. Turn to 85.

117

You find yourself clutching at air as the agile Thill
Man leaps over you. You land heavily on the
ground and, before yau realize what is happening,
your arms are twisted behind your backina painful
hold. You try with all your might to break free but,

118—120

the more you struggle, the moreit hurts. Finally you
Rave no choice but to submit. Furn to 213.

118

Wielding their flaming swords through the air, the
White Knights cut down the Chavs Warriors, de-
Spite being heavily oumumbered. When half their
number have fallen, the Chaos Warriors turn and
See. Seizing the initiative, vou call the rest of your
amy to join the Knights and march on the front line
ot Trolls. Turn to 178.

119
4 Warrior dives into the water and swims over to
the log. “He’s dead,” shouts the Warrior. ‘And
there’s an Orc’s knife sticking out af his stomach.
There's also a gold key hanging from his neck on a
piece of string. Shall I take it?’ If vou want the key,
turn to 318. If you would rather leave the man and
the key alone, tur to 94.

120

An hour later the scout returns to tell you thal to the
south he has spotted a village of wooden huts
almost hidden by overgrowing vegetation. He also
tells you that the trees are less dense that way. You
immediately turn the army south until it is possible
to head east without too much difficulty, when the
scout tells vou that the village is further to the south.
if you wish to go with ten men to the village, turn to
238. IF you would rather march on eastwards sith
your army, turn to 180.
121-123

121
4 large stone slab blocks your progress down the
passageway. However, a slot fora key and a crack
setween the slab and the side wall lead you to
suppose thatit could slide into the wall. Three skulls
aré mounted on stone plinths rownd the slat, each
with a key placed on top and a number stamped on
the forehead. If you wish to try a key in the slot,
choose a number and turn to it. lf you would rather
walk back to the junction and try the other passage-
way, turn to 17.

122
With a full stornach, your reaction is slow. You feela
a sudden pain in your side as the dagger finds its
Ne fi pule sige” mark_ Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, tum to 190. If
Uae = you are Unlucky, turn to 272.
the Goblin’s fall is broken by landing on top of the
Wyvern. Although it is bruised and in pain from
what you suppose are broken nbs, it is at least alive
and may be able to provide you with some valuable
information. You walk over to your would-be assas-
sm and ask quite sternly what it knows about
Agzlax. But the Goblin merely spits at you before
pushing a dagger into its own chest. You decide to
seatch through its pockets, and you find a bow-
string, five arrowheads and a gold pendant with the
| number “ro” scratched on the base. Keep the pen-
dant if you wish, before giving the order to march
| on towards Claw. Turn to 220.

124-126

124
You tell Max to go and meet Lexon at your camp
outside Zengis where she will receive her payment
of 200 Gold Pieces (deduct this from your Adzenture
Sheet). “You will not regret hiring us,” she says as she
leads her men away. You watch her for a few
moments, before tarning the corner and walking on
up the street. ‘Turn to 314.

The Hopper jumps up and down on your shoulder,
yapping frantically like an excited puppy. “No right
turns on the way out the caves,” squeaks the
Hopper. ‘What would you do without me? You
make a couple of facetious suggestions and walk on-
Turn to 166.

126
As you Tace away, you do not see the Axeman
behind you take aim and hurl a throwing-axe at you.
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, tum to 371- If you
are Unlucky, turn to 302.

127-128

127

A sprig of belladonna is brought to you and you
swallow it as quickly as possible. The belladonna is a
poison itself (deduct 2 points from your STAMINA)
bul, strangely, fights off lycanthropy. The fever
soon dies down and you are able to rest and sleep.
You feel much better in the morning and lead the
army across the new plain. Turn to 323.

128
For you if will be a long night, a night that lasts for
ever. As soon as the moon rises, the amulet be-
comes animated by the warmth of your skin and the
beetle burrows into your neck and severs your

windpipe.

129-131

129
Fifteen minutes pass by, and still you find yourself
unable to moye a muscle. Then, much to your
horror, you see a head rise slowly out of the sewer
access tunnel. lt is another Sewer Goblin. It looks
first at the bodies of its two comrades then over at
you. It climbs slowly out of the hinnel and walks up
to you, With one swift movement, its dagger exacts
Tevense.

130
The path finally peters out at a point where the
forest begins to thin, Walking is made easier on the
flat, pine-needie-covered ground and you turn east
once again. Turn to 124.

131
The fireball crashes on to the deck, killing five of
your men. Others rush to put out the fire before it
can gain a hold, and soon itis under control. Turn to
21.

132-133

132
No exil permil, no exit,” shouts the Calacorm as it
reaches for its spear. Naw you must defend your-

self.

CALACORM SKILL 9 STAMINA &

if vou win, furn to 377-

133
You rummage hastily through the pockels of the
vazabonds and find 10 Gold Pieces and a ytass phial
containing a green, odourless liquid. If you wish to
drink the green liquid, tum to 264. If you would
rather leave it, take the gold and go back into the
Street to explore Zengis further, turn to 382.

1347137

134

4 large rock in front of you suddenly moves. Then
you realize that it is nota ruck, but the back ofa Rock
Man. It stands awkwardly on its rocky feet and
turns fo face you. Like a tall man with rough,
rocx-like skin, the waiting servant of Ageglax
stretches out to grab you and squeeze the life cut of
your body.

ROCK MAN SKILE 10 STAMINA 6

i you lose any Attack Rounds, turn to 202. If you
win without losing any Attack Rounds, turn to 55.

135

The Goblin manages to stay in its saddle, and soon
the fast-climbing Wyvern is nothing more than a
speck in the sky heading for the castern horizon.
Aware that Agelax may send more would-be assas-
sins, you pive the order to march on to Claw, but
with your troops in much closer formation. Turn to
220.

136
Your temperature increases and the fever becomes
worse as the hours roll by. You slip in and out of
consciousness, until your body finally givesin tothe
deadly virus. Your adventure is over.

137
The first two barrels you examine are empty, The
third has a piece of old sacking covering it; before
you can even touch if, however, a squeaky man’s
138—140

voice shouts out from inside, “Go away! Leave me
alone! Can‘ta body geta decent afternoon nap these
days?’ If you wish to pull back the sacking to see
who is inside the barrel, turn 10 328. Otherwise, you
can either walk back down the alley and turn lef
into the street (turn to 177) or, if you have not done
so already, descend into the tunnel to the sewers
below the alley (turn to 31).

138

‘Ten Warriors cross the bridge before vou step on to
it. You are halfway across when it suddenly moves
under your feet. The slab rolls over and you are
thrown into the depths of the chasm. Landing on
the rocky floor fifty yards below, you are killed
instantly. The slab of stone was a Boulder Beast that
had been put there to trap you by the servants of
Agulax.

139
By the time the Flying Toncan has turned and got

under way, the pirate ship is less than 200 yards
astern. Ihe gap quickly closes unti] you are thrown
on to your back by the force of ihe pirate ship
ramming the stern of the Pying Towci. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 384. If you are
Unlucky, tur to 215-

140

You fall backwards, clutching ai thin air, and land
heavily on the ground, some fifteen fect below. You
are dazed and winded, and a pain in your back

I41—142

prevents you getting up. Through blurred vision
you see the Blog above take aim with its blow-
pipe. The poisoned dart finds its mark and you are
Sragged off to fill the Blog’s cooking pot.

141

You armye atan old building which looks like a barn,
with large wooden doors at the front. A man is
Standing in front of the doors and there is much
shouling and cheering coming from inside the
building. You step towards the entrance, but the
man bars your way. ‘Pie-eating competition,’ he
says grufffy. ‘Five Gold Pieces to goin, and then you
can join in the competition against Big Belly Man if
you think you can out-eal him. Mind you, nobody
ever has, [think I should tell you.’ Ifyou want to pay
the entrance fee and go in, turn to 217. If you would
rather walk on, turn to 95.

142

The raging battle continues, but still there is no sign
of Agglax himself. No sooner have you drawn your
dloody sword from the chest of the Hill Troll, thana
heavily armoured Mountain Orc jumps over the
corpse to fight you.

MOUNTAIN ORC

If you win, turn to 208.

SKILLS

STAMINA 7

143-144

a}
You are almost out of the woad when you hear
savage war-cries. Fifteen heavily armoured Ores
ar¢ running throuch the trees towards you,
brandishing swords, axes and warhammers. You
must fight a Skinoish Bettie, If you win, turn to 242,

144

1 don't know if you know it already,” continues
Thog, ‘but the Starstone Cayes is a very dangerous,
trap-ridden system of passageways and caves, one
of which is the hideaway of the Oracle. Even though
he has many powers to offer this land, he really
loathes all the lying, cheating, thieving, hypocrisy,
deceit and all the other bad ways of the beings in
Allansia. He will tolerate those who show initia-
tive, however. And if you survive his traps, that will
show initiative enough: he'll speak with you. And
i'll take you there for 30 Gold Pieces.’ You pay Thog
his fee and go back with him to the inn.

Early next morning you rouse your men and are
soon marching south-eastwards. Thog starts to tell
you all about his adventures which, after two hours,
become extremely boring. Before noon, you give the
order to rest far food, just to stop Thog from talking.
Even so, he rambles on, spitting crumbs from his
mouth while describing the more exciting moments
from his tales. Thankfully, you reach the Starstone
Caves before dusk and ask Ihog to tell you all he
knows. ‘Two things I should tell you,” he replies.
Always turn right at every junction. And if you
145-146

have to choose a number you can see, don’t choose
one with a four in it, What questions the Oracle will
ask you I'm afraid you will have to answer for
yourself, You must go on your own and find out”
You wave goodbye to your men before disappear
ing into the mouth of the dark cave, # lit candle in
one hand and your sword in the other, Turn to 219.

A bare-chested warrior dives into the river and
swims tu the barrel. A rope is thrown to him, and he
ties this round the barrel before being hauled up by
the deckhands. With a buzz of excitement, the hidis
prised off the barrel. But the contents are dis-
appointing — the barrel is half filled with apples. It
you want to hand them round to your men, turn fo
329. If you would rather toss them overboard, turn
to 107.

146
As you walk past an alleyway, three dark-cloaked

figures leap out of the shadows, wielding wooden
clubs, Fight the robbers one ata time.

SKILL STAMINA
First ROBBER 7 6
Second ROBBER 7 7
Third ROBBER 8 6

If you win, you decide ageinst going any further im
the dark, and you walk back to ‘Helen’s House’.
Turn to 368.

147-148

147

You reel backwards and the arrow thuds into the
ground, missing you by inches. The Wyvern is
steered skywards again by the Goblin, as your
troops rush to you to make certain you are not
wounded. You shout at them to fire their bows at
the Wyvern, but it is already cut of range. As you
give the order to march on, you wonder whether the
attack had been an assassination attempt on behalf
of Agglax. Turn to 220-

The Knights draw their swords, which you sve are
burning with white flames. Seemingly undaunted
by the numbers standing against them, they charge
at your troops on their five white stallions. You see
them slice through your ranks as the weapons of
your soldiers appear to do them no harm. One of the
Knights tums his horse in your direction. You raise
your sword to defend yourself, but the clash of the
Knight's burning blade shatters it into tiny pieces.
The Knight strikes again, slicing through your body
armour as though it were butter. There you die at
the Twisted Bridge.

149-151

149
The street continues straight on until you find your

self back at the main entrance-gates tu Zengis. Re-
membering your promise to Lexon, you decade to
return to your waiting army. Tum to 213-

150
The Axeman stands back, cutting a figure-oFerght
through the air with the battle-axe which he wields
in bath hands.

AXEMAN

If you win, turn to 102-

SKILL 8 STAMINA 8

151
Tm afraid you are short of luck, my fiend,’ con-
tinues the Oracle. ‘Fate has decided that I cannot
help you, Goodbye.’ The eyes on the carving close
again and you are left to ponder what to do next.

You hear a grating; sound behind you; looking
round, you see a section of wall sliding back. There
is no alternative but to step into the tunnel that has
appeared. Turn to 260.

152-154

152
Tsaid, go away,’ growls the rogue as he pushes the
table back and stands up. “You must be either deaf
or stupid. Maybe you can understand this,’ he says
angrily as he draws his sword. You respond in
smilar fashion.
ROGUE

if you win, turn to 276.

SKILL F STAMINA §

4
Standing close br, the Bes woman sees the
Goblin just as it is about to fire its crossbow. She
dives headlong at you ta push you out of the path of
the flying bolt. You are knocked to the ground and,
when you get up, you see that Max ts dead, the
Gobhn’s bolt protruding from her chest. Swearing
revenge, you leap to attack the Goblins who are still
fighting the surrounded Warrior.

SKILL. STAMINA
hirst GOBLIN 5
Second GOBLIN 5 6

Fight them one ata time. If you win, turn to 379.

I

134
You bound across the floorboards and leap for the
sword. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to go. If
you are Unlucky, turn to 387-

455

155

The trees become sa densely packed that it feels as if
they are pressing in on you. You are forced ty calla
halt and decide to go on alone with a scout to find
out whether the forest thins out ahead. Rather than
thinning out, however, the trees become packed
more closely together until it reaches a point where
you almost have to squeeze yourself between them.
The scout is walking ahead of you when he sud-
denly calls out, "Tree Men!’ Just as you reach him, a
huge funk moves slowly forward on its splayed
roots and lashes the poor man with its two main
branches. All but indistinguishable from the trees
around it, you can just make out a mouth hidden in
the thick, cracked bark and, above it, a pair of small,
ancient cyes which are ringed like the stumps of a
branch. The scout is battered to the ground and the
Tree Man lumbers forward to crush him under its
roots. Ignoring the danger, you draw your sword
and attack the Tree Man.

TREE MAN SKILL & STAMINA 8

Both branches (with 8 stTamiNA points each) will
have a separate attack on you in each Attack Round,
but you must choose which of the two you will fight.
Attack your nominated branch as in a normal battle.
Against the other you will throw for your Attack
Strength in the normal way, but you will not wound
it if your Attack Strength is greater ~ you must just
count this as a successful defence. Of course if its
Attack Strength is greater, it will have wounded you
in the normal way. If you win, turn to 290.
156-157

156

‘The old woman thanks you profusely and reaches
out for your ight hand with both of hers. “Let me
read your palm,” she says. She opens your hand.
pulls it towards herctinkled face and lets outasenes
of ‘oohs* and “aahs’. Finally she looks up and says,
‘You are anadyenturer ona very important mission.
To fulfil that mission, make sure you drink the
Water of the Gods. Death awaits you if you don’t’
Without saying another word, she hobbies off and
you march south again. Turn to 38.

157
Your vision blurs even more and you suddenly feel
quite sick. You stagger towards the table nearest to
you, but before you reach it you collapse on to the
stone floor. When you come round, you find your-
self lying on a pile of mabbish in a dark alley. Your
head throbs with pain and your feeling of nausea is
not helped by the foul stench rising up from the
rubbish. Thankfully, your sword is still in its scab-
bard, but if you possessed a pendant or a ring, they
will have been stolen from you by the thieves of The
Black Dragon’. Deduct 1 point from your LUCK
Cursing your decision to come to Zengis. } you rise
slowly to your feet and stagger out of the alley. Turn

to 382.

158-160

158

Your troops become suddenly quiet, then a nervous
whisper runs through the ranks. You call them to
erder and march into the forest where the light
Quickly fades under a thick canopy of leaves over-
Sead. After half an hour, a scout reports back to tell
you that he has spotted a village of wooden huts
Chat were almost hidden by ovetgrowing vegeta-
Son. If you wish to go with ten men to the village,
San to 238. If you would rather march on with your
aizmy, turn to 180.

159
The fireball lands with a splash in the river, well
short of the Flying Toucan. Turn to 192.

160
The glow intensifies as your skin becomes uncom-
fortably hot. It then begins to burn and you scream
out in pam before falling unconscious to the floor.
Death by radiation soon follows-

161-163

161
You shake hands with the man, sit back in your
chair and wait for a fly to descend. Less than 2
minute later, a large bluebottle lands on the table
and moves towards the blobs of jam- Roll ane die. If
you roll 1-3, turn to 231. If you roll 4-6, turn to Se.

162
At last you manage to gel round the clearing anc
head south along the path. Turn to 345.

163

One of the guards nods his head and says, “Yes, |
saw the army myself, setting up camp outside
Zengis. ‘he adventurer must be telling the truth.
We'll let you go this time, but don't get into any
more trouble.’ You breathe a sigh of relief and
assure the guards that your only wish is to recruit
more warriors. Turn to 78.

164-165

164
Although the ropes creak under the strain, the
bridge holds out and your army crosses safely,
Heading east, you reach the eastern edge of the
forest just as itis getting dark, so you decide to set
up camp under the cover of the trees. Looking up at
the night sky which is, at last, visible again, you see
that the moon is full. You decide to post extra
soldiers on watch duty, ever wary of the presence of
were-creatures. Turn to 278.

165

The crowd listens intently as yau tell them of your
quest; however, unknown to you, one of Agelax’s
spies lurks among them- A dagger flies out from the
séa of faces; you just glimpse it out of the corner of
your eye. Roll two dice. If the number rolled is the
same as or less than your SKILL score, turn to 293. If
the number rolled is greater than your SKILL scure,
turn to £22.
166-167

166
The tunnel opens out into a large cave and con-
tinues in the far wall. Between you and that tunnel,
however, stands a tall, reptilian creature with two
heads. lt skins 2 dead snake with its dagger and
then takes one bite out of the snake with each head.
Armoured reptilians with two heads and an appe-
tte for snakes can mean omly one thine —Calacorms!
You step slowly into the cave, your hand on your
sword-hilf. The Calacorm's heads both start talking
atonce and you have difficulty understanding what
itis saying. Thankfully it takes anather bite of snake
with one head and continues talking with the other.
‘Exit permit must be signed and sealed,’ it says to
you irmtably. Thrusting a piece of parchment into
your hands, it shouts, “Your seal! Give me your
seal!’ If vou have a gold seal, turn to the number that
is inscribed on it. [f you do not have a seal, turn to

167

Ihe door tm locked and you have to prise it open
with your sword, Finally, with a loud noise of
splintering wood, the door flics open to reveal
a large, rusty iron box. Cnidely printed words
on the lid sive the warning: “DO NOT OPEN.
PROPERTY OF UNMOL.’ If you nevertheless
wish to open the box, turn to 22g. If you would
rather respect the owner s wishes, leave the box and
march on, turn te 399.
168-170

168
As you pick the statue up, you heara click. A dageer
with a needle-sharp point is released from a coiles
spring inside the plinth and flies towerds your
chest. Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 365. If
you are Unlucky, turn to 195-

169
Leaving its hands tied behind its back, you give the
Blog a shove with your boot and watch it scamper
off into the thick undergrowth. You call out to your
Warriors to return ta the path and march on. Tum to
130.

Yr
A sharp pain runs down your arm from the place in
your shoulder where the trident's spikes are
lodged. Deduct 2 points from your STAMINA. Gnit-
ting your teeth, you pull the trident out of your
shoulder. A nimble figure runs out from behind the
barrels and dives over the side of the ship into the
water, making the quictest of splashes. You look
over the side but see no head rise to the surface.

—— rr eee

171-173

Whoever or whatever attacked you must be an
Scellent underwater swimmer. You walk over to
Se barrels and see watery webbed prints on the
deck, perhaps those made by a Fish Man. Test your
teck. If you are Lucky, turn to 43. If you are Un-
iecky, tum to 375-

at Et
The nimble creature twists and turns through the
endergrowth before scampering quickly up a tree.
Wil you:

Climb the tree? Turn to2
Chop the tree down (if you have

an axe)? Turn to 257
Call the troops back to the path

and match on? Turn to 130

172

You put the mug to your lips and down the faul-
tasting drink in one go. ‘Ditch water!” you exclaim
contemptuously, slamming the mug back down on
the bar. The barman sneers, ‘The drinks are on me if
you can do that 2 second time.” If you would like ta
zccept the challenge, turn to 249. If you would
rather get on with your business, turn to go.

173
‘Never mind,’ says the girl. ‘Come back another
ime and have another go.’ You grunt in acknow-
iedgement and decide to leave the gambling-hall
and go back to the inn. Turn to 50.
174-175

174
‘Correct, the Knight says cheerfully. ‘Now tell us
why you are marching through this infernal forest.’
You tell the Knights about your mission to destroy
Agelax. They reply that they would be honoured to
join your army, and you readily accept their offer
‘They also tell vou that they know a quick and safe
route out of the forest. With the mounted Knights
leading the way, you cross over the bridge. By the
time you reach the eastern edge of the forest it is
getting dark, so you decide to set up camp under the
caver of the Lrees, Looking up at the night sky which
is, atlast, visible again, you see that the moan is full.
You decide to post extra soldiers on watch, ever
wary of the presence of were-creatures, Turn to 278.

175

It is late in the afternoon when the towers and
rooftops of Zengis come into view. Captain Barnock
appears to relax a little, knowing that he will soon be
moored up in the safety of the town jetty. Before
going ashore, you appoint a Warrior named Lexon
as your second-in-command, and tell him to lead
your men to a field outside the town walls and to
pitch camp there; you don’t want them getting into
trouble, and you want them well fed and rested for
the next day’s march. You tell Lexon that you will
spend the night in Zengis in order to recruit more
troops and perhaps find out some rumours about
Agelax, the Shadowy Demon. As your troops march
down the gangplank of the Flying Tewaan, you bid
farewell to Captain Barnock. You walk through the

176-177

main gates of the town and decide to head for the
nearest tavern, a place where you might expect to
find both warriors and rumours. As you walk down
the narrow street between the old wooden houses,
you suddenly catch sight of a gold ring lying im the
utter. If you want to pick it up, turn to 292. If you
want to carry on looking for a tavern, turn to 52,

176
You part the bushes and immediately come face to
face with a Giant Lizard. Over twenty feet long, the
gepejawed monster lunges at you.

GIANT LIZARD

If you are sill alive after three Attack Rounds, turn

to 106.

SKILL & STAMINAG

177
At the comer of the street, you armve at a stone
building; it has a sign painted on the window in
ctude whitewash letters which reads ‘Max's
Marauders — Swords for Hire’. If you wish to enter
the building, turn to 63. If you would rather keep
walking round the comer to the left, turn to 314.

(
:

178
178

4s you close in on the front line of Trolls, they
suddenly part to allow four wooden wagons to roll
forward, cach one pushed by crews of shouting
Goblins. Your heart sinks wheny ou see the Goblins
load large pomted poles into their firing positions,
ready to be catapulted at youradvancing troops. Bul
there is no gomsg back and you urge your troops on
ito the mouths of the Goblin war-machines. When
you are well within range, you hear their order to
fire, and watch the missiles fly towards you. Roll
tour dice for the number of your troops who are cut
down by the war-machines’ deadly missiles. Still
ifty vards away from the enemy line, your own
troops falter in the face of another salvo. In need of
urgent rallying, you run ahead of your army to lead
them into battle. When you are just fwenty yards
away from their line, the war-machines are fired
2gain_ Roll four dice again and deduct this total from
your army. If you now have fewer than one hun-
dred troops in total, turn to $9. If you have one
hundred or more troops, turn to 13.

179-181

179
Half an hour after eating the apples, some of the
soldiers start being sick, yourself included. Deduct
points from your STAMINA and 1 point rom your
SKILL. Their health rapidly deteriorates, and two
die quite quickly. Before the day is over, fifteen im 25
have died. Make the deduction on your Adventure
Sheet and also deduct 2 points from your Luck. You
repret your decision to give the apples to your men
and resolve in future not to be distracted from your
main objective. Turn to 209.

180
You pass by a stagnant poo] above which the air ts
thick with hovering insects. In the middle of the
pool you can see the corner of a wooden Dox sticking
out of the weed-covered water. If you wish to wade
into the pool to retrieve the box, turn to 325. If you
would rather march on, turn to 68.

181
The path finally ends ata clearing. The trees are less
dense beyond the clearing, making it possible to go
east again, Turn to 114,

182-183

162

You step out from behind a tree so that the men in
the Gages can see you. ‘Free us! Free us quickly
Sefore the Orcs return!’ one of them shouts desper-
Ztely. “Two days ago their archers cut us down,
walling twelve of us and injuring another. We were
travelling east to join the army we have heard about
that is marching to meet the Shadow Demon’‘s
forces.” You sense that the man is telling the truth
and instruct the Elves to let the cages down. Ten
tred-looking Warriors are freed from their cages,
dul the eleventh has died of his wounds. The ten are
keen to join you when they leam, much to their
Surprise, that you command the army tltey are look-
ing for. After giving them food and water, you lead
them out of the wood. Turn to 143.

183
The man, whose name you learn is Obigee, goes on
at length about a whole series of races, walking
round the room and mimicking the antics of the
Sew. “Would you like tu see a drawing of the crew?’
se finally asks (turn to 230 if you would). ‘Or would
you rather have your room key?’ (turn ty 82).
184-185

184

You enlarge the hole, to reveal a small iron door
which is locked. There is asmall keyhole but no Key.
If you wish to open the door and have a gold key,
turn to the number that is inscribed on the key. Ut
you do not wish to open the door or do not haye =
key, there is nothing else you can do except leave
the clearing. Turn to 315.

185

A scream suddenly fills the air; it is made by one of
your Warriors and is quickly followed by several
more uttered by other men. ‘Giant Fire Ants! comes
a cry from an area where there is suddenly much
activity: men leaping to their feet and stamping on
the ground, and others brushing frantically at their
clothing and armour. You order everybody to move
out of the long prass as quickly as possible, but
when they have reformed by the river bank, fve
Warriors are missing. You walk back through the
grass and find them lying motionless, their bodies
covered by the poisonous red ants. There is nothing
you can do for them and so you retum io your men
with the bad news. You begin the march again,
although not in such high spirits. Turn to 274.

186-187

186

You reach the eastern edge of the forest just as itis
setting dark and decide to set up camp under the
cover of the trees. Looking up at the night sky which
s, at last, visible again, you see that the moon is full.
tou decide to post extra soldiers on guard duty,
ever wary of the presence of were-creatures. Turn to
278.

187

Only a foolish adventurer would attack a Lep-
rechaun. Before you can even raise your arm to
sinke a blow, the Leprechaun tosses some magic
Gust in your face. You are instantly paralysed — the
only part of your body that you can move is your
eyes; but you still have your senses. For the next
salf-hour you are stuck rigid to the spot and forced
80 listen to a long lecture from the Leprechaun on
mow absolutely wrong it is to attack defenceless
Seople. When the lecture is finally over, the Lep-
rechaun Starts to rommage through your backpack
and pockets. He takes all your gold items {not Gold
Pieces) and says, “Now let that be a lesson to you.’
Then he wanders off. Deduct 2 points from your
tuckKand then Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn
> 72. If you are Unlucky, turn to 129.
188—190

138

Two hours later, the tranquillity of the river trip is
ssddenly disturbed by a shout from the crow’s nest
ot ‘River Pirates! River Pirates!’ Captain Barnock
maches for his telescope and fumes and curses as he
cuss on the ship coming downriver at full speed.
hands you the telescope and vou see the reason
sr his concern. The pirate ship is of the type built

; Northmen, exceptionally sturdy and with a
uge iron ramming-spike protruding from the bow.
De ouble rows of oars extend from each side of
Se ship, giving added speed; the Fiying Toucan is
sbviously no match for the pirate ship, which steers
2 pee course. Captain Bammock starts to fluster,
mot Knowing what to do. Will you:

at

By ae

Order him to raise a flag of

surrender? Turn to 277
Turn the Flyntg Toucan towards
the north bank? ‘Turn to 353

Order the Flying Toucan to turn
about and out-run the
pirate ship? Turn t 139

189
tou shrug your shoulders in exasperation and
sudge back to your troops to give the order to
march on. Turn to 130.

190
The dagger lodges in the fleshy part of your left side
aod the wound is not very serious. Deduct 2 points
191

from your STAMINA. As you clutch your wound, #

dark, hooded figure slips out of the crowd, throus®
a side door and away before anyone can catch him

You tell them not to give chase as there will be other
assassins put in your path before you get the chance
to mect Apelax. After bandaging your wound, you
hire ten Warriors for 100 Gold Pieces and tell them
meet Lexon at your camp outside the town. Whee
you feel you are sufficiently recovered, you ge
outside again, Turn to 95.

1g1

You free the captured Dwarfs and hear how they
had been ambushed im the forest while looking for
caves to explore for gems. For saving their hives
they offer to enlist in your army and arm themselves
with weapons from the Hobgoblins. A search of the
Hobgablins’ bodies yields a gold necklace and =
wwar-banner that was tied to a spear. lis emblem is2

red dragon holding a curved sword, againsta white

background inside a gold circle. You pack away t=
necklace and banner and give the order to march oe
through the clearing. Turn to 312-

|

a)

“2=_

192-194

192

The River Raiders are obviously unaware of the
number of soldiers on board your ship, otherwise
they would not have attacked with only twenty
men. As they draw closer, no more fireballs are
released by the catapult and you must decide what
to do. If you want to order the Elves to loose their
arrows at the Raiders, turn to 380. [f you would
rather let the Raiders climb aboard, turn to 258.

193
You slay two more of Agglax’s creatures and thena

spear is thrust in your side. The sheer weight of
enemy numbers is toc much, even for you and your
brave soldiers. You do not die alone this day — but,
alas, the enemy has won.

1
The nimble-footed Hill Man‘s reflexes are sharp,
and he jumps up in the air as you dive towards his
feet. Roll hvo dice. lf the number is the same as or
less than your SKI11 score, turn to 373. If the totalis
greater than your SKILL score, turn to 117.

195-197

195

Max congratulates you on your swordsmanship and
accepis defeat gracefully. You tell her to meet Lexon
at your camp outside Zengis where she will receive
her payment of 100 Gold Pieces (deduct this from
your Adventure Sheet). “You will not regret hiring us,
she says as she leads her men away- You watch her
for a moment, before turning the comer of the
street. Lum to 314.

196

Nearby Dwarfs mun to help you and quickly slay the
reptilian monster. Wondering what other dangers
await you in the forest, you march along the path.
Turn to 15.

1

You squeeze bebveen het tables and sit down ona
high stool at the far end of the bar. The barman isa
huge, ugly brute —if he said his father was an Ogre,
you would believe him. “What's yer poison?’ he
grunts, to which you reply, “A mug of apple juice.
‘Apple juice!’ roars the barman out loud. “Apple
juice! Ha, the young squib wants apple juice! Andl
suppose you'll want milk if we don’t have apple
juice?’ laughs the barman as his customers look
round to see who he is mocking. “Well you've come
to the wrong place,’ he continues. ‘We only serve
Devil's Brew here. Do you think you can take a pint
of that?” If you swish to drink a pint of Devil's Brew,
turn to172. If you still insist on apple juice and at the

198

Same time would like to tell the barman tou mind his
manners, turn to 71.

198

Less than a minute later, you hear the Elf scream
and a bellowing roar froma huge creature. Thereisa
orief scuffle and then silence. The next sound you
hear is that of teeth crunching and gnawing throuyh
bone. Some terrible subterranean beastis devouring
the poor Elf_ His fellow Elves look al you accusingly
and you have to feel responsible for the Elf’s death,
Deduct 1 point from your Luck. However, there is
nothing that can be done for the Elf except, perhaps,
toavenge his death. If vou wish to be lowered dawn
the rope yourself, turn to 239, If you would rather
leave the clearing, turn to 315.

199-201

199

it is ting work, crossing the stinking marsh. ‘Ihe
dark brown water rises up to vour knees and your
tect are sucked down into the black sludge below.
You are about halfway across when you see the
reeds and weeds ahead of you slowly start to rise
Out of the water, pushed upwards by some gro-
tesque black hulk. It is a massive creature which
breaks the surface of the water, slime and veyeta-
non dripping down the sides ofits thick hide, which
is lmed with deep grooves. A head appears, eyeless
and bearing a gaping, blood-red maw lined with
rows of dagger-like teeth. It slithers towards you,
crushing and drowning five Warriors under its huge
dulk (deduct them from your Adventure Sheet). The
hideous Mudgrinder is almost on top of you and
you must defend yourself with your sword.

MUDGRINDER SKILL 11 STAMINA 12
After five Attack Rounds, turn to 33-

200
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 164. lf you
are Unlucky, turn to 34.

201
‘Gladly" replies the bounty-hunter, He hands you
his helmet and you pay him 5 Gold Pieces. The
helmet is very solid and will protect you from salid
Slows that might otherwise have caused serious
mjury. Add 1 point to your SKILL. You follow the
Sounty-hunter back along the tunnel and Jeave him
to collect his evidence from the dead Sewer Goblins
202-204

in the alley. If you have not done so already, you
may inspect the barrels (turn to 137), oF you could
walk back down the alley and turn leftinto the street
(turn to 177)-

202

The Rock Man manages to get its arms locked round
you. Two of your ribs crack under the enormous
pressure that the Rock Man applies with its power-
(ul arms. Deduct 1 point from your sx!Lt and 2
points from your STAMINA- The Rock Man
squeezes harder as your troops attack it from be-
hind, butits back is almostas tough as stone and the
swords bounce off it. You call for a Dwarf to try to
splinter the Rock Man with 4 warhammer. If there
are any Dwarfs in your army, turn to 336. Ifall your
Dwarfs are already dead, turn to 244.

203

Some time later, Captain Barnock walks over to you
and says, ‘We'll soon be dropping anchor for the
night. Would you and your men like to sleep here
on the deck of my ship or would you prefer to find
samewhere more comfortable on land?’ If you de-
cide ty sleep on deck, turn to 12. If you wish to go
ashore and find some long grass on which to sleep,
turn to 337.

204 —
You step warily into the mouth, expecting 4 jet oF
flame to f{rizzle you or the floor to fall away suc
denly. But nothing happens and you ere able to
walk on. Turn ta 53.

205-208

205

Taking careful aim, you hurl your backpack at the
sword, hoping to knack it safely on to the floor. Roll
two dice. If the number rolled is the same as or less
than your SkILt score, tum to 5. If the number
rolled is greater than your SKILL score, turn to 306.

206
‘That mdeed is a pity. Perhaps I'll give you one last
chance to make amends, or maybe | won’t. Let fate
deade if. Now where are my dice?’ booms the vaice
of the Oracle. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn
to 44. If you are Unlucky, turn to 151.

207

With quick reflexes, you dive to one side and only
your left leg is burnt by the fireball. Deduct 2 points
from your Sra mina. You roll overand try to stand,
just as the Goblin rider looses its arrow at you. Roll
one die. Ifyou roll 1, turn to 304. If you roll between

2 and 4, turn to 344- Tf you roll 5, turn to 147. IF you
roll 6, fun to 283.

208
The noise of battle mings in your ears as you look
round to see how your army is coping against the
odds_ Koll one die. If you roll rt or 2, turn to 106- If
you roll 3 or 4, turn te 216. If you roll 5 or 6, turn to
358-

209-212

209

As she rounds a bend in the river, the flying Toucan
suddenly comes under attack. A large fireball flies
through the air towards you, hurled from asvooden
catapult that is stationed on the south bank. Under
the corering fire, twenty River Raiders jump into
their log canoes and paddle quickly over to the
Fiying loucan. Test your Luck. Lf you are Lucky, turn
to 286. If you are Unlucky, turn to 131.

210

Time passes by as you slip in and out of conscious-
ness. But at last your temperature falls and you
slowly recover. When you finally teel strong
enough, you set off once again. Turn to 68.

211

You continue to march round the edge of the marsh
and in less than an hour it is behind you. Turn to
115.

212
You leave the gambling-hall and make your way
back to the inn, but you have the uneasy feeling that
you are being followed. You tum to look back but
cannot see anybody in the dark. Then suddenly you
heat the sound of heavy footsteps approaching
quickly and a large figure looms into view. Only
when itis nearly on top of you do you see its savage
face, lumpy and bestial, drooling spittle down ils
213-214

chin. The Ogre has been sent to repossess the gold
you have won.

OGRE SKILLS

You must fight the axc-wielding Ogre in the dark
street. If you win, you search the Ogre, but cannot
find anything on itin the dark. You decade to retum
to the inn. Tum to §0.

STAMINA 10

233

Being an honourable person, you stand by your
word and leave your ten men to work for the Hill
Men, As you leave the village on your Own, you
turn io wave govdbye to your men, thinking that
perhaps they have been saved fram a worse fate:
a gruesome end in battle against the forces of
Agelax. But deep down you know they would have
preferred to die in battle and you can’t help feeling
that you have let them down. Deduct 2 points from
your LUCK, Putting the thought to the back of your
mind, you quicken your siep and return to your
waiting army. Within half an hourthe army is on the
move, heading south-east after crossing the river
towards Zengis. Turn to 49-

214
The tunnel is quite dark and the dim light from your
candle does not illuminate the floor. Your foot
catches a hidden tripwire which releases a bolt from
a crossbow, mounted on the wall at the end of the
tunnel. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, tum to 116.
If you are Unlucky, turn to 383-

215-216

215

A rope securing a block and tackle in the rigging
above you parts as the pirate ship rams the Flying
Toscan. The block and tackle crash to the deck,
knocking you unconscious in the process. When
you awake, you find yourself chained to an oar
belowdecks on the pirate ship, the fying Torcan
having been sunk. Asa galley-slave, you will spend
the rest of your days straining over an oar. Your
adventure is over-

216

Thirty of your valiant troops lie dead or dying on the
battlefield. (Reduce the size of your army by this
amount on the Adwenture Sheet.) Trolls try to push
the brave survivors back, while Goblins and Ores
attack the flanks remorselessly. Berserk with battle-
lust, some of the Goblins and Ores at the back are
fizhting among themselves, so eager are they to
experience the clash of steel. To yournight you see a
Warrior being attacked from both sides by two
Goblins. To your left, another Warrior is being
clubbed to the ground by a Hill Troll. lf you wish to
help the Warnor on your left, tum to 269. If you
wish to help the Warrior on your right, turn to 62.

217

217

You pass through the entrance and ftnd yourself in
the middle of a packed crowd of cheering people.
Some ate standing on the floor, craning their necks
in order to get a better view of what's happening in
the centre of the bar. Others are sitting on the
benches of a makeshift grandstand which rises up
the other three walls. You squeeze your way
throuch the crowd to lind out what is going on,
until you come to a circular wooden barrier, inside
which two men are sitting at a table, one at each
end, gorging themselves on two huge pies. The
man io your left is so absolutely enormous that a
half-moon shape has been cut out of the table where
he is sitting so that he can reach his pie. He is quite
old and completely bald. and he has a monocle
jammed in his left eye. His gross body looks all the
more obese because of the tight black leotard that
he is wearing with his name, ‘Big Belly’, embroi-
dered in yellow letters across it. His opponent,
himselfa huge Man-Orc, looks small in comparison:
A Dwarf, who you are toldis the referee, is standing
on the table between them, making sure that all the
pie is being eaten and none is dropped on the floor.
Suddenly, Big Belly Man half-rises and punches the
air with both hands, and a loud cheer goes up to
celebrate another victory. The Dwarf calls for order
and then announces the result. ‘Ladies and gen’‘le-
men, the winner of the rat-and-turnip-pie-eating
competition is Big Belly Man!’ Another cheer echoes
through the room before the Dwarf can continue.
When the noise has died down he proclaims, After
218-220

a five-minute interval, Big Belly Man will challenge
anybody to a fish-and-custard-pic-eating compen-
tion. All challengers, sign up here, please“ lf you
want to enter the competition, turn to 14. If you
would rather leave, turn to 95.

218

Further along the street, you come to another shop.
The window is full of old things, all piled ane on top
of another: boxes, tins, clothes, tools, pottery, carr-
ings and curios are all heaped up like a pile of
jumble. A pawnbroker’s sign, somewhat the worse
for wear, hangs above the door, If you wish to enter
the shop, turn to 287- If you would rather walk on,
turn to 141.

219
The cave funnels down into a passageway which is
dark and cold. Droplets of water fall from the ceiling
with a loud ‘plop‘ into shallow pools on the floor
and occasionally you think you can hear a woman's
laugh coming from a long way away. The passage
soon ends ata junction. If you wish to go left, turn
to 17. lf you wish to go right, tum to 121-

220
It is mid-afternaon when you see wisps of smoke
rising into the air against the distant stark backdrop
of Icefinger Mountains, stretching as far east and
west as you can see, The Elves’ keen eyesight re-
yeals that the smoke is rising from the chimneys of
huts ina small village which, you presume, must be

221

Claw, You decide to enter the village with only ten
men to show the Hill Men that you mean them no
harm. Twenty minutes later, you enter the village,
but it appears completely deserted: not a soul is in
sight. Only the smoke which continues to rise from
the chimneys convinces you that somebody must be
near by. The village consists of thirty wooden huts
forming a circle round one large hut, which you
assume is either a meeting-place or a hall of
worship. You call out but get no reply, and a shiver
runs down your back as you wonder if this is a trap.
if you wish to call out again, tum to 261. If you
would rather order your Warriors to draw their
swords, turn to 86.

221
You walk safely along the passageway for fifty yards
until you arrive at a crude sign on the wall which
reads “Give GENEROUSLY’. Beneath the sign is a
large wooden box with a wide slit in the lid. Put
whatever you wish into the box before proceeding
along the passageway- Tum to 76.

222-224

222
The key turns in the lock and you pull the heavy
door open. It is pitch-black inside and you are
unable to see anything beyond the door. You drop2
stone into the darkness and hear it clatter on to 2
stone floor below. Will you:

Lower yourself down on a rope? Turn to 285
Lower a volunteer down? Tum to 25
Close the door and leave the

clearing? Tum to 315

223
‘Sorry for asking,” says Enk, looking all indignant.
His hurt expression makes you wonder whether the
vagabonds are in fact as tough as they look. Perhaps
they may have useful information; it crosses your
mind to tell them of your mission rather than fend-
ing them off with more lies. But can you trust 2
vagabond? If you wish to tell them about your true
mission after all, turn to 395. If you would rather tell
them that you must be on your way, turn to 311.

254
The docile creature sitting on your shoulder awakes
from its slumber as you jap it gently on the head.
Hoping the Hopper will have the powers its vendor
claimed for it, you try to recall the numbers thal will
trigger its invisibility. If you know the number, turn
ta it. If you do not know the number, turn to 303.

225-226

225

You think about Captain Barnock’s offer, but decide
you would rather march east as you are more likely
to recruit more troops on fand. You set off and
march through the open countryside without inci-
dent, following the River Kok eastwards. In the late
afternoon you give the order for your troops to rest,
and fet them sit down in the knee-hich grass. Test
your Luck. LF you are Lucky, turn to 58. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 185.

226

When you pick the doll up, red gas seeps out of its
mouth and forms the word “Agglax’ in the air.
Instinctively you drop the doll and it shatters on a
rock. Red gas pours from the broken doll and fills
the air. It has an immediate asphyxiating effect and
you find it almost impossible to breathe. Deduct 2
points from your STAMINA. You order everybody
to he on the ground to escape the gas which is
hovering in the air. When it has finally blown away,
you find that five Warriors do not get up again
(deduct them from your Adventure Sheet). In low
spirits you march on. Turn to 134.

227-228

227

The third strike of the barman’s club hits you on the
side of the head, knacking you unconscious. When
you come round, you find yourself lying on a pile of
rubbish ina dark alley. Your head throbs in pain and
the nausea you feel in your aching stomach is not
helped by the foul stench rising up from the rub-
bish. Thankfully, your sword is still gnpped in your
hand, but if you possessed a pendant ora ring, thes
will have been stolen from you by the thieves of The
Black Dragon’. Deduct 1 point irom your LUCK.
Cursing your decision to come to Zengis, you
slowly tise to your feet and stagger out of the alley-
Turn to 382.

228
Test your Luck. H you are Lucky, turn to 364. If you
are Unlucky, tim to 260.

229

22g

You ft the lid and find that the box is crammed full
with the possessions of a Goblin called Unmou. A
year-old diary written in Goblin language tells of
Unmou’s adventures and battles, and this is read
out to you by one of your Dwarfs who learnt Goblin
during the two years he spent in a slave mine. The
Dwarf reads out the last entry with concern in his
voice: “Fiddlesticks barmy, fm off to jom the army!
Agglaxis yearning for us to do some burning. We're
all willing, itching for some killing." Mowever, you
find no map or clue as to where Unmou has gone to
join Agglax. His other possessions amount to a
blanket, a leather pouch full of teeth, hwo clay pots,
& pair of leather sandals, a brass nose-ring, a pewter
mug, 2 bag of shells, two rats’ skulls, a wooden idol
and a copper amulet in the shape of a beetle on a
copper chain. The amulet is the only thing which
interests you. Decide whether or not to place it
round your neck before leading your troops north
again. Turn tp 399-
230

230

Obigee opens a cupboard drawer and pulls out a
leather-bound book. He opens the baok ata marked
page and hands it to vou. There are eight people in
the picture, each dressed in heavy oilskins. ‘That's
me,” he says proudly, pointing to the drawing of
himself, ‘and that’s our skipper Preece with the
funny hat on, Spike’s the one with his hair sticking
up, and Euan is the young one going bald before his
time. Werewolf’s the bearded one, Kwil’s son is the
one with long hair and the couple there are Klaak
and his lass, Welz. Perhaps one day we'll take on
Conner himself. He's the bestin all of Allansia. Sails
in the OL! World across the Western Ocean, but his
reputation is known to all. But that’s enough about
me, what about you?’

You decide to tell Obigee about your quest and his
eyes widen in amazement. ‘I’m afraid I’m too old to
join your campaion, but I would like to help your
cause,’ he says before disappearing into a back
room. He reappears in a moment, holding a mag-
nificent sword. ‘Tf this cannot slay a Demon,
nothing can,” he says with a smile. ‘Leave me yours
and you can have it” You examine the sword and
see that it is of remarkable craftsmanship; vou do
not hesitate to make the swap. Add1 pot to your
SKILL. Obigee then hands you the key to yourroom
and wishes you goodnight as you climb the stairs.
Turn to 376.
231-232

233

The bluebottle hesitates for a second, then moves
swiftly on to the jam that the rogue chose. You have
lost the bet. Deduct 1 point from your LUCK and
remove 50 Gold Pieces on the Adventure Sheet. The
man drops the gold into his leather pouch, his face
still expressionless despite his sudden gain. If you
svish ta ask him his name, turn to 3- If you would
raiher leave him and move to another table to sit
with the three vagabonds, turn to 18-

232

With your sword gripped in your hand, you walk
cautiously down the tunnel. The light from the
flickering candle srow's brighter as you approach it.
4 figure comes into view and you see at once that it
is much taller than a Sewer Goblin: it is a man,
carrying a pole-axe and a shield, and muttering to
himself. When he sees you emerge out of the
shadows into the light of his candle, he stops and
says, ‘Have you seen any Sewer Goblins come this
way? You tell him about the two that tied to rob
you. ‘Good, I‘ll go and cut their ears off se that ican
collect my bounty. That's my job, see, Zengis has 2
lot of trouble with its Sewer Goblins, but not many
people like to work down here clearing them out.
You did me a favour, now can I do one for you in
return?’ Will you ask him if he knows anything
about Starstone Caves (turn to 99) or ask him to sell
you his helmet for 5 Gold Pieces (turn to 201).

233-235

233
You hear a loud thrashing sound in the bushes off
the path to your left. If you wish to investizate, turn
to 176-_ If you would rather march on, turn to15,

234
A few miles further upriver, you come across a
bearded man with ragged hair, standing on the
north bank. He is dressed in animal furs and is
waving his arms at you, gesturing for you to stop. If
you wish to sail over to the man to investigate, urn
to 298. If you would rather sail on, turn to 203.

235

You have walked no more than ten yards along the
passage when the floor suddenly gives way under
your feet. You have activated a trapdoor and fall
head over heels into a sixty-foot-deep pit, where
you land ona bed of ugly iron spikes. Pierced like a
pincushion, you are killed instantly.

236-238

236
Sgglax’s mouth opens wide as if he is about to
laugh, but you hear no sound of laughter. Instead, a
jet of freezing gas shoats out of his mouth, envelop-
ing you completely. Within seconds you are irozen
to the spot, a trophy for the victorious Agelax.

237

Before he can recover, you lock Vine’s arms behind
his back ina vice-like grip. You increase the leverage
until he sudden cries out, 1 yield!’ You let go of his
arms and help him to his feet. He rubs his shoulders
and says, ‘Stranger, you are worthy champion. You
now have fifteen Hill Men at yourdisposal.’ Twenty
minutes later, after the Hill Men have gathered their
belongings and weapons, you set off to rejoin your
army, pleased with the knowledge that the diver
sion had been worth while. Turn to 194.

238

The group of you walk into the village with swords
drawn and came upon the ¢ruesome remains of 4
number of Wood Elves who have been brutally
massacred, no doubt by the servants of Agglax.
Louking around, you notice a small bronze statuc
standing on a wooden plinth in front of the largest
hutin the village. If you svish to take the statue, furn
to 168. [If you would rather go back to your army,
turn to 88.

239-240

239
With a buming torch gripped befyeen your teeth,
you lower yourself into the dark chamber. The
unseen beast continues to tear atits victim. You run
straight down the tunnel and sec the sickening sight
ofa huge, hairy beast gorging on the Elf. Blood drips
down its jaw as it looks up im your direction. Swing-

ing your sword, you charge the brutal Nandibear.
NANDIBEAR SKILL9Q

If you win, turn to 362.

STAMINA if

240

The scorpion’s tail swings up over its head andstabs
you with it venomous sting. The poison is quick-
acting and you begin to feel extremely ill and fever-
ish. Deduct 4 points from your STAMINA and 1
point from your SKILL. You stagger over to an alley
and find a hiding-place behind some barrels, where
you can lie down.

Some time later, you wake up and find yourself now

able to walk, so you set off in search of a tavern.
Turn to 52.

241-243

241
Up ahead a wooden bridge spans the chasm but you
see that it is guarded by five Knights on horseback.
When the Knights see you, two of them dismount
and walk to the bidge, each carrying an axe. Poised
To cut the securing ropes, they stand with their axes
raised above their heads. The other three Knights,
still mounted, raise their visors and sayin turn from
ieftto night, Tam Sir Pierce’; Tam Sir Dean’; ‘Tam Sir
Trevor.” The one who introduced himself as Sir
Dean then continues: ‘We are the uardians of the
Twisted Bridge. If you wish to cross it, you must
answera question.” If you wish to hear the question,
turn to 248. If you would rather attack the Knights,
turn to 148.

242
4 search of the Orcs’ possessions yields 10 Gold
Pieces and some extra weapons for your men. After
they have been distributed, you walk out of the
wood to rejoin the rest of your troops, Turn to 295.

243
As you cut the ropes thatare tyiny her, the Elf starts
to sob, “Thank you. Thank you for saying me. lam
trained in mental powers and hoped that I could
create 2 barrier that would deflect the sword, but |
didn’t really know if I could. I would like to have
practised first with something less pointed than a
sword, but my captors did not give me the chance,’
She regains her composure, pulls a ring off her
inger and says, ‘Please take this ring as a token of
244-245

mv gratitude, It will bring you luck." If you wish t
take the ring turn to 270. If you would rather refuse
her gift politely, retrieve your backpack if you have
dropped it and rejoin your men outside, turn to211

244
Warriors drop their swords and pull at the arms of
the Rock Man. But its strength is unnatural and the
Rock Man increases the pressure on your chest
which is eventually crushed as if it were a tin mug.
Your quest is over-

245

After pocketing your gold, the old man hands the
crow lo youand says, ‘Now, Billy, lwantyou ta bes
good friend to your new owner-’ With the crow
perched on your shoulder, you leave the shop. As
soon as you are outside, the old man locks the door
and hangs a ‘CLOSED’ sign up in the window. You
walk off down the street and decide to talk to your
nes pet. You ask the crow to suggest somewhere
interesting to so. The crow suddenly flies off your
shoulder, circles above you and squawks, “Dark-
wood Forest! See you there!’ Then it squawks again
loudly, as though Jaughing, and flies up into the
sky, disappearing beyond the rooftops of Zengis.
Suddenly angry, you run back to the shop anc
hammer on the door, but there is no reply. Annoyed
at your own stupidity for buying the crow, you set
off alone down the street. Turn to 218.

246-247

246

A-silver trident flies over your head and thudsintoa
mast behind you. A nimble figure then runs out
from behind the barrels and dives over the side of
the ship inte the water, making the quietest of
splashes. You look over the side, but see no head
mse to the surface. Whoever or whatever attacked
you must be an excellent underwaterswimmer, You
walk over to the barrels and see watery webbed
prints on the deck, perhaps those made by a Fish
Man. Test your Duck, If you are Lucky, turn to 43. If
you are Unlucky, turn to 375-

Ona long leash of vine, the Blog walks slowly ahead
of you, threading its way between the bushes and
the trees. You call out to the other members of your
hunting party to go back to the main army and await
your return. The Blog quickens its step and leads
you to a huge, moss-covered statue standing mys-
teriously among the trees. [t is a statue of an un-
known King, standing in a strange pose: one arm is
outstretched with a clenched fist, the other is out-
stretched with a pointing finger. As you step for
ward to examine the statue, the Blog reaches down
for a Knife hidden behind the statue and cuts itself
248-249

free. You hear a noise in the bushes — but it is too
late, the Blog has disappeared. You are intrigued by
the statue, however, and notice 2 clean band of
stone on the outstretched finger; you assume a ring
had been placed here. If you have a gold ring and
wish to put it on the finger, turn to the number
inscribed on the ring. If you do not have a ning or do
not wish to put it on the finger, turn to 189.

248

‘We are the White Knights and we fight on the side
of order,’ Sir Dean says ina loud voice. Tfyou are to
prove to us that you also are aligned to order and are
worthy of our help, you must answer this question.
Which of the three slar pupils who trained at the
school of the Grand Wizard of Yore was was the son
of a priest from Salamonis?’ Will you reply:

Yaztromo? Tum to 174
Nicodemus? Turn io 291
Pen Ty Kora? Turn to 391

You watch confidently as the barman refills your
mug. You put it to your lips and once again gulp
down the Devil's Brew without stopping. As you
stand up and turn to walk over to one of the tables,
the room suddenly starts to spin before your eves
and you see a double outline of everything in your
vision. Roll two dice- If the total is the same as or less
than your SKILL score, turn to 61. If the total is
greater than your $KILL score, turn to 157.

250251

250

‘You are very observant, my friend,’ says the
Oracle. “Now for the final test. | want you to per-
form some magic for me. You can hear me, but
you cannot see me. | think we should be equals.
Make yourself invisible! If you own a Hopper, turn
to 224. If you do not own a Hopper, turn to 108-

251

You find nothing of interest on the bodies of the
Sewer Goblins. If you wish to descend via the
tunnel into the sewers below the alley, turn to 31. If
you wish to inspect the barrels, tum to 137.

252~-255

252

Half an hour later, you see some figures walk into
the clearing opposite you. Two Dwarfs, thetr hands
bound behind their backs and their necks held by a
pole forked at both ends, are being pushed towards
the boulder by a group of Hobgoblins. You count
fifteen of them in total. One of the Dwarfs is cut free
of his neck pole and is then forced to his knees; his
head is pushed down on to the boulder as another
Hobgoblin approaches with a two-headed axe. To
halt the execution, you run into the clearing with
twenty-five of your Warriors. Fight a Siirmish Battle.
if you win, turn to 191.

233
The scorpion does not sting you, and you quickly
shake it off your hand. You think about all the
trouble you have already had in Zengis, and you
resolve not to be diverted any longer from your plan
t» find 2 tavern. Turn to 52.

254

You run after Agelax Ee soon catch him up as he
scrambles awkwardly across the body-strewn
ground in his long robes. You call to him and he
suddenly stops and looks at you piercingly in the
eves. You must chant the rhyme to activate the
crystal. Turn to the number spoken in the rhyme. If
you do not know it or have forgotten it, turn to 79.

255
‘I'm quite willing to haggle,’ says Max, “but let’s
decide the price by fighting with these wooden
256-257

swords. If Land a blow to your chest first, the price
will be raised to 300 Gold Pieces. If you stike mine
first, the price will be 100 Gold Pieces.’ If you wish te
ficht Max, turn to 41. If you would rather change
your mind and pay the original asking price, turn fo

124.
256

Before you can strike home with your sword, the
Mudegrinder suddenly slithers forward. You are
flattened by the massive underbelly of the beast
and forced underwater. You struggle for a few mo-
ments, but then run out of air. Your adventure ts

OVeT.

257

With your shield held above your head in one hand
and your axe in the other, you begin to hack at the
tree, Realizing what is happening, the Blog tries to
jump across to the branches of another tree. But the
branch it catches breaks under its weight and the
Blo falls to the ground with a dull thump. Before it
can recover, you te its hands behind its back witha
length of vine. You question it about its village and
about Ageglax; but the Blog understands only a few
words of the human tongue and is unable to reply-
Will you:

Kill the Blog? Turn to 29
Gesture that you want treasure? Turn to 247
Set the Blog free? Turn to 169

258—260

258

You order your men to stand back from the sides of
the boat so as not to scare off the River Raiders.
Grappling -hooks are thrown up from the canoes,
and the Raiders begin to climb up the ropes, yelling
and screaming. As they climb on deck, they are
greeted br twenty Elvish archers with their arrows
trained on them. Ten are captured without a fight
before the others realize whatis happening and dive
inte the water to scramble back aboard their canoes.
You offer the ten cut-throats the chance to serve in
your army or face slavery under Captain Bammock.
They have little choice and accept your offer im-
mediately. You relieve their leader of a particularly
fine shield and place it on your arm (add 1 point to
yoursKitt). So, with some unexpected additions to
yourarmy (add 1 LUCK point), you instruct Captain
Bamock to sail on. Turn to 309.

259
The Garks* sacks that were tied to their belts are full
of worthless trinkets. You soon rejoin your army

and press on deeper into the forest. Turn to 180,

260

Within half an hour of being bitten by the Werewolf,
you begin to develop a fever. To your horror you
realize it is the first symptom of lycanthropy, the
termble affliction that turns humans into were-
creatures. In desperation, you wake all your troaps
in the hope that one may haye some belladonna.
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 127. If you
are Unlucky, turn to 51.
261-262

261

Once again you call out, saying that you have come
in peace and wish to hire men for your army to fight
Agelax. Suddenly a sinewy-looking man with long
hair and dressed in animal skins jumps down from
the roof of one of the huts, landing about ten yards
in front of you. ‘Iam ¥ine, leader of the Hill Men.
We wish to join your army, but we do not require
gold in payment. You must prove to us that you are
a true leader. You must wrestle with me-. If you win,
land fourteen of my finest men will serve you. Ff
you lose, you will have none, and although you wil
be free to leave, the ten men who are with you must
svork for us for a month.’ If you wish to wrestle
Vine, turn to 307. If you would rather give the order
for swords to be drawn in order to show Vine that
you have no time for his suggestion, furn to 86.

262 :
The army marches east along the riverbank until
you come ta a wooden bridge. The crossing takes
place without any problem, and the river is soon left
behind as you march southwards across the Pagan
Plain. By late afternoon you have put many miles
behind you; you give the order to halt, to enable

263-264

your Warriors to drink ata watering-hole. Unknown
to you, however, the water has been poisoned by
one of ‘s spies and many of your Warriors
Segin to fall sick. Within an hour, half of them are
too ill to march. Lf you wish toe wait far them ta
recover, turn to 75. If vou would rather head south
with fifteen hand-picked Warriors who are still well,
turn to 296.

263

‘You are very unlucky, so Iam forced to ask you a
question that you may find a little obscure,’ con-
tmues the Oracle. ‘T have also been fascinated by the
sea and seafaring, and once I met a man called
Obigee. He lives in Zengis and works at an inn.
Perhaps you stayed there? He loves racing and sails
on the Harem. Now, here’s the question. How many
crew sail on board Harem?’ If you know the answer,
hun to that number. [f you do not know the answer,
turn to 108-

264

You gulp down the liquid and wait for something to
happen. First, your hands and feet start to tingle,
then all your limbs seem to go limp. Your sword
teels heavy in your hand and sudden tiredness
makes you want to sit down. You have drunk a
Potion of Weakness. Deduct 2 points from your
SKILL, 3 points from your STAMINA and 1 point
from your LUcK. Unable to shake off your malaise,
you pocket the gold and stagger back into the streets
ta explore Zengis further. Turn to 382.
265-266

265

Tou dive into the undergrowth and see movement
m the bushes in front of you. Ordering your
Warriors to spread out in order to make yourself less
of an easy target, you mum towards the bush ahead.
A small brown-skinned creature suddenly jumps
out from behind it, pointing along blowgun straight
at you. You recognize it as a Blog because of its
aog-hke head and the shrunken heads that are tied
> its belt. Infamous for cooking human flesh in
large cauldrons, Blogs are hated and hunted down
dy all human races. A split second later, a poisoned
dart is flying towards vou. If you possess a shield,
turn to 73. If you are not carrying a shield, turn to
330-

266
The light is quickly fading as the village of Karn
comes into view. The village is a well-known stop-
over for travellers and is the last human village for
many 2 mule. If comprises some fifty buildings,
many of which are taverns, veneral stores and
gambling-halls. You take your men into an inn and
tell them to eat well and get to bed early as you
mtend to leave at first light in the morning. You
deade to walk round the village after your own
267-269

meal. If you wish to enter the ‘Blue Pig’ tavern
find a guide, turn to 357. If you would rather go =
the gambling-house, turn 10 700.

267
You react tao slowly and are struck by a silve
trident. Roll one die. If you roll 1-3, turn to 397. ©
you roll 4-6, turn to 170.

263
You sven come to another junction in the street. &
you wish to turn left, tum to 338. If you wish to walk
straight on, turn to 102.

269
Another Hill Troll in the front line of battle picks up
a huge rock and hurls it at you as you leap to the ais
of the stricken Warrior, If you have Laas of the
Northmen sith you, turn io 288. If you do not have
him in your army, turn to 23.

270-271

270
tou take the ring and place it on your little finger
Secause of its small size. Suddenly the Elf starts ta
uyh, but itis a sinister laugh. She begins to tug at
her ears and you watch her peel the skin forward off
her face, to reveal a hideous skull with green, bload-
veined eyes. She drops the mask on the floor and
steps towards you, mouth wide open. You try to
Graw your sword, but find yourself unable to move.
With terrible ferocity, she starts to bite at your
throat, as is the way of a Trickster Hag. Your ad-
venture is over.

272

When you arrive at the jail, the jailer looks you over
carefully as the guards explain why you have been
arrested. ‘Let the adventurer go,’ says the jailer,
much to your surprise. ‘LE have heard mnimours abcrut
Agylax, and I have seen the army camped outside
fengis with my own eyes.” The guards shuffle to
one side to make way for you to leave. You hurry
out of the jail and across the street towards a tavern
that you noficed on your way to jail. Add 1 Luck
point and turn to 78.
272-274

272
You slump down on to the table, suddenly gasping
for air, You become unconscious and death quickly
follows. As the crowd moves forward to see what is
happening, a dark, hooded figure slips quietly out
throush aside door. Agglax will be pleased with hss
assassin.

273
You step warily into the mouth, expecting a tep
be sprung atany moment. Butnothing happens anc
you are able io walk on until the passage ends at yet
another junction. If you wish to go lef, turn to 372
If you wish to go right, firm to 393.

274
Less than an hour later, the ground becomes soggy
underfoot and you see that you are marchins
straight towards a marsh. If you wish to walk on
into the marsh, turn to199-. If you would rather walk
the long way round the marsh, tum to 342-

275—277

2

After wiping the spiders sticky slime from your
Slade, you take a look around the cave. Hidden
among a pile of debris, you find a silver box witha
shooting star etched into its lid. The box rattles
when you shake it, If you wish to open the box, turn
to 398. Lf you would rather leave it where it is, go
Dack to the path and march on, turn to 184.

276
The crowd of people who watched the fight inside
the tavern do not look pleased at the outcome. You
decide to make a dash for the door before they turn
nasty. You mun into the street, slamming the tavern
door behind you, and carry on without stopping.
turn to 382.

277
Pirates pay no heed to flags of surrender and cer-
tainly have no reputation lor mercy. Their ship
Dears down upon the Flyizg Toucan at full speed,
ramming it amidships. You are thrown off your feet
dy the jolt. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to
384. If you are Unlucky, turn to 215.

278-279
278

Not long after midnight, you are woken by the eerie
sound of howling wolves. Unable to sleep, you
decide to go and tind out if the guards have
observed any wolves. You can see some way ahead
of you in the moonlit forest and suddenly catch
sight of a dark figure moving through the bushes.
Creeping up on a guard from behind, the Werewolf
raises its head and howls at the dark sky before
leaping at the surprised guard. Drawing your
sword, you run to his aid. [f you are wearing the
tooth of the Yeti, turn ta 70. If you are not wearing
this charm, turn to 374.

279

You wake in the morning toa bnght, blue sky which
completely contradicts the threat hanging over
Allansia. Your army is soon on the move again and
an houror se later the towers and rooftops of Zengis
come into view. You appoint a stout Warrior by the
name of Lexon as your second-in-command; you
instruct him to lead your men intua feld outside the
tn walls and to pitch camp there; you want them
oul of trouble and well rested for the next day's long
march. You tell Lexon that you will spend the night
in Zengis in order t) recruit more troaps and
perhaps hear rumours about Ageglax the Shadow
Demon. Promising to be back by noon of the follow-
ing day, you walk to Zengis and enter the town
through the main gates. You decide to head for the
nearest tavern, since it is as good a place as any to
tind both warriors and rumours, Walking down a
280-282

narrow street between old houses, you suddenly
catch sight of a gold ring lying m the gutter. If you
want to pick it up, turn to 292. If you would rather
ignore it and head fora tavern, turn to 52.

280
The wall slides back into place behind you and you
fee] suddenly trappedas you walk on. Further along
the tunnel you notice a piece of paper on the Hoor. if
you wish io pick it up and read it, turn to 343- you
would rather just walk on, turn to 166-

281

You cut the pouch from the Axeman’s belt and tuck
it inside your clothing as the town guards approach
you, their spears pointing at your chest. They chal
lenge you; vou tell them of your quest and describe
how the Axeman tried to rob you. They look at each
other, not sure whether to believe you. Tesi your
Luck. If you ate Lucky, turn to 163. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 324.

282
You hear terrible screams behind you and discover
that five of your Warriors have fallen to their deaths
down a pit trap, no doubt dug by the servants of
Agglax. Cursing his name, you march on and reach
the eastern edge of the forest just as it ts gettine
dark. You decide to set up camp under the cover of
the trees. Looking up at the night sky which is, at
last, visible again, you see that the moon is full. You

283-286

decide to post extra soldiers on watch duty, ever
wary of the presence of were-creatures. Turn to 278.

283
You reel backwards and the arrow thuds into the
ground, missing you by inches. Six quick-thinking
Archers load their bows and loose their arrows at
the Wyvern as the Goblin steers it skywards. Rall
one die. If you roll 4 or 2, turn to tog. If you roll
between 3 and 5, tur tog. If you roll 6, tum to 326.

284
lf you have not done so already, vou may climb
down into the sewer (tur to 31}, or you could walk
back down the alley and turn [eft into the street
{turn to 177).

285

With a buming torch gripped between your teeth,
you lower yourself into the dark hole. You land on
the floor of a large chamber in which there is a
terrible smell of animal droppings. The chamber is
empty but you can make out a tunnel leading off it.
Ifyou wish to go down the tunnel, turn to 345. lfyou
would rather climb back up the rope and leave the
clearing, turn to 315-

286
The fireball whistles by between the masts, and
lands harmlessly in the river. Tum to 21.
287-288

287

Inside the shop you are greeted by a fmendly ola
woman who calls herself Bunny. Tlave a look
around, there’s a price on everything you can sec,
she says in a jolly voice. Twa of the walls are lines
with shelves from floor to ceiling; they are Tammed
with more junk collected over the years, most of it
covered with a thick layer of dust. You cast your eye
along the shelves and pull out several things which
may be of interest, each with its own price-teg-

a brass owl 10 Gold Pieces
a copper lantern 5 Gold Pieces
a helmet 10 Gold Pieces
an ivory box 5 Gold Pieces

a green vase 20 Gold Pieces
Buy some, none; or all of these items and pay Bonny
for your purchases, before leaving the shop and
continuing along the street. Turn lo 141-

288
Stancling close by, the Northman sees the Hill Troll
justas itis about to hurl the rock. He dives headlon s
at you to push you out of the way of the flying rack.
You are knocked to the ground; looking behind you,
you see Laas grinning, his arms stil locked round

;

289-291

your legs. Quickly thanking him, you leap to attack
the Hill Troll, who is still clubbing the stricken
Warmior.

HILL TROLL

If you win, turn to 379. ~

SKILL 9 STAMINA &

2

‘ou soon Teach the wee and Goblin, but find
that they are both dead. A search of the Goblin‘s
pockets reveals a bowstring and five arrowheads,
which are of no use to you. Aware thal Agelax
might send more creatures to kill you, you give the
order to march on towards Claw, but with your
troops in much closer formation. Turn to 220,

290

The Tree Man is far too strong to kill, but with its
two main branches severed it retreats into the
depths of the forest. The scout is not too severely
injured; you help him on to his feet and half carry
him back to your army. You give the order to head
south and, in less than half an hour, you are able t

head east again without too much difficulty. Tum to
180.

2g1

“You are wrong,” the Knight says sharply. ‘Go back
whence you came-’ If vou wish to turn your army
round and march south along the edge of the
chasm, turn to 327. IF you would rather attack the
Knights, turn to 148-
292-293

292
You examine the ring and see that it is inscribed
with the number ‘45’. Suddenly you feel a lap on
your shoulder; whirling round, you are confronted
oy a huge bald man, looking angrily at you. An ugly
scar runs across his face from above his leftear to the
Soitom of his right cheek, His bulging muscles
stretch his black leather tunic, and you are quick to
notice that he ts brandishing a battle-axe. A throw-
ing-axe is strapped to his leg. He points an accusing
hnger into your face and growls, ‘That's my ring,
stranger. Give it tome or die” You notice that his fat
angers are far too big for the ring and decide that
obvicusly he is lying. Will you:

Give him the ring? Turn to 333

Run away down the street? Turn to 126

Inght the Axeman? lurn to 150
293

Your reflexes are liohtning-sharp and you manage
to dodge the flying dagger. A dark, hooded fisure
slips out of the crowd, through a side door and away
before anvone can catch him. You realize that it
would be a waste of time to give chase, as no doubt
you will have plenty of other servants of Agrlax to
meet before your quest is over. So vou set about
hiring ten Warriors for 100 Gold Pieces; vou fell them
to meet Lexon at your camp outside the town. With
your hing finished, you go outside again. Tum to
95-

Py
Ww 43
aye

‘
294-295

You make no sense of the note and, after folding =
up and putting it in your pocket, walk on along the
tunnel, Turn to 166.

295

The rest of the day passes without incident as the
light starts to fade, you look for a place to make
camp for the night. You soon find a suitable spot by
the river and before long a fire is built and the
designated cooks get to work spit-toasting wild
pigs. Everybody eats svell, satisfying their large
appetites after the long day’s march. After posting
six zuards for the night watch, you scitle down to
sleep. Not long after midnight, an owl's hoot wakes
you up. The moon is almost full and, feeling wide
awake, you decide to ga and check the guards. You
walk east along the riverbank until you see the
silhouette of the first guard, his spear pomting up to
the sky. Before you reach him, however, you suc-
denly notice two shadowy figures climbing silently
out of the river. They slip quickly up the bank
towards the guard and you see thal they are carry-
iny tridents, the favourite weapon of Fish Ment! You
call out to the guard as you mun to help him. As you
charge in, you see that the attackers definitely are
Fish Men, their scales and bulbous heads unmistak-
able. You run at the one nearest to you, the guaré
raising his spear at the other-

TISH MAN

If you win, turn to 16.

SKILL 7 STAMINA?G

296-297

296

two hours later, you make outa lone figure walking
slowly towards you. You can soon see that this isan
old woman hobbling along, clutching a wooden
sick for support. As you walk past her, she holds
out her hand and says ina croaky voice, ‘Spare mea
Gold Piece.” If you wish to give her a Gold Piece,
turn to 156, If you would rather march on without
stopping, turn to 38.

297

I'm terribly sorry, but I’m unable to answer your
questions as you have failed to please me. Good-
oye.” The eyes of the carved face close again and you
ate left to ponder what to do next. You hear a
grating sound behind you; looking round, youscea
section of wall sliding back. There seems to be no
alternative but to step into the tunnel! that has
appeared. Tur to 280.

298-299

298

You sail to the north bank to find out what the
ragged man wants. As you draw close, nine other
men emerge from the bushes but do not raise thei
weapons. The one who waved to you drops his
arms and shouts, ‘Greetings, stranger. | and my
fellow Northmen have heard of your noble quest
and wish to join your army. For 10 Gold Pieces =
man we will fight by your side to the death if duty
calls.’ If you wish to hire the Northmen, turn to 30. If
you would rather refuse their offer and sail on
without them, turn to 203.

299
Two hours later you are back at the wateriny-hole

where you find your troops fully fit and ready to
march. You head east and, after crossing one of the
tributaries that feed the River Kak, you come to the
edge of the Forest of Fiends. Dark, twisted tees
reach up to form a threatening wall. If you have
Thog with you, turn to 36. If you do not have Thos
with you, turn to 158.

300-302

300

Once back in the alley, you have to decide what to
do next. If you have not done so already, you may
inspect the barrels (turn to 137), or you may walk
back to the street and turn left (turn to 177).

301

Agglax’s mouth opens wide as if he is about lo
laugh, but you hearno sound of laughter. Instead, a
jet of freezing gas shoots out of his mouth, envelop-
mg you completely. Within seconds you are frozen
to the spot, 2 trophy for the victorious Agglax.

302

The axe hits you in the back of your calf and sends a
searing pain up your leg. Deduct 2 points from
your STAMENA. Unable to run on, you pull the axe
painfully from your leg just as.the Axeman catches
up with vou. He sneers at you, whirling his battle-
axe through the air ina figure-of-eight. You have no
option but to fight him.

AXEMAN SKILLS STAMINA $

During this combat, reduce yoursKIL1 by 1 because
of your injury. If you win, turn to 101.
3937-305

393
Plainly visible, you stand before the stone face
shouting numbers. “You are only allowed one
attempt,’ the Oracle says solemnly. Turn to 108-

394
The Goblin’s arrow pierces your chest with deaaiy
accuracy at such short range. Your adventure =

OVer,

q

395
You are fortunate not to have been bitten by the
Werewolf, as you could have caught lycanthropy.
that terrible disease which turns humans into were
creatures. The rest of the night passes without
incident and in the morning you lead your army out
of the forest, across the new plain. Turn to 323-

306

The backpack just misses the sword, crashes inta
the far wall and lands on the floor, The impact tilts
one of the floorboards forward and releases the
cotton holding the sword. It drops straight down on
to the Elf, but, to your surprise; merely bounces off
her stomach. ‘Lintie me,” she begs, ‘and f will ex-
plain!’ [f you wish to untie her, turn to 243, If you
would rather leave this strange FIf, retrieve your
backpack and rejoin your men outside, turn to 320.

307-399

397

As you unbuckle your sword, Vine’s men appear
as if from nowhere and form a circle round the
two of you. Your own men barge into the circle
to cheer you on. Vine crouches down with arms
outstretched, while his keen eyes watch you
mtently. He steps to one side, feints a leap and
Carries on pacing round the edge of the human ring.
You follow him with your eyes, trying to stay re-
laxed, wondering if he will make a move. If you
wish to make the first move by diving at Vine’s legs,
turn to 194. If you would rather wail and Jet Vine
make the first move, turn to 67.

308
Your left foot treads on an unseen snake and; not
surprisingly, it defends itself by sinking its fangs
into your calf. Most snakes in the Forest of Fiends
are poisonous, and this one is no exception to the
rule. Deduct 4 points from your STAMINA. Tf you
are still alive, turn to 162.

309
You sail on without incident for another hour when

somebody spots a log floating downriver with a
man lying across it, face down and motionless, his
limbs trailing in the water. IF you wish to rescue the
man, turn to 119. If you would rather sail on without
stopping, turn to 234.
31 313

310
Twenty minutes later you reach the end of the
chasm and are able to head east again. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 186. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 282.

311
Not wishing lo be drawn into a futiic conversation,
you stand up and tell the vagabonds that you know
exactly where your cousin lives and thal you really
must be going. Without waiting for their reply, you
leave the tavern to explore Zengis further. Turn to
382.

312
You come across a path that has been cut through
the undergrowth. It runs north and south. Will you:

Continue east? Tum to 349
Go north along the path? Turn to 233
Ga south along the path? Turn t6

343

Your losses are bad, but they could have been
worse. Five Warriors and five Elves died on board
the Flying Toucen, and five Dwarfs and ten Knighis
were drowned in the river, dragged under the water
by the weight of their armour, The survivors seem
reassured to have firm ground underfoot once more
and are keen to start marching. You set off straight
away, hoping to reach Zengis the following day-
Turn to 366.

314-315

314
The street soon turns to the left again and, as the

shadows of darkness start to creep out from the
Sides of buildings, vou decide that it is time to find
an inn. One called ‘Helen’s House’ is the first that
you come to and it offers rooms for 1 Gold Piece a
night. If you wish to spend the night at ‘Helen's
House’, turn to 368. If you would rather find some-
where else, turn to 146.

315

As you walk along the path, an uneasy feeling
grows that you are being watched. Suddenly you
hear a cry from behind; looking round, you see one
of your Warriors drop to the ground clutching at a
dart lodged im his neck. Another Warrior falls, and
you realize that your troops are the target of hidden
blowpipes. Roll three dice and add 2 to the total: this
is the number of troops who die as a result of the
potsoned darts. IF you wish to chase your attackers
through the undergrowth with ten Warriors, turn to
265. If you would rather march on quickly before
losing any more troops, turn to 130.

316

316

The forces of Agglax have had time to regroup while
you were engaged in the battle against the Fire
Imps. Marching towards you is a long line of Chaos
Warriors, their black spiked armour adorned with
gruesome treasures from previous battles. Banners
flutter above them in the breeze, their red dragon
symbol signifying allegiance to Evil. Huge Trolls
march behind the Chaos Warriors, with Orcs and
Goblins on both flanks, although there is no sign of
Agplax himself. The advancing army suddenly
stops and the plain falls deathly quiet. Then 2 small
hunchbacked Gremlin steps in front of the waiting
forces of Evil and begins to dance and chant. Ending
with a piercing scream, he drops to the ground. The
Chaos Warriors move forward, treading the Grem-
lin underfoot. They quicken their pace to a rhythmic
trot; the stamp of their feet is an unnerving sound
for your troops to hear. Brandishing all manner of
axes, spears, spiked clubs and maces, they advance
towards you, screaming their war-chants. Arrows
will not stop them and you must decide how to fight
them. If you wish to lead your Knights into battle,
turn to 359. Lf you would rather send in your Dwarfs
to fight the Chaos Warriors while you wait to sce
how the battle progresses, turn to 91.

317-319

317

The fanatical Chaos Warriors cut down your
Knights until there are only five leit standing. You
suffer a deep gash in your thigh and a bad cut on
your left arm in slaying one of the attackers. Lose 4
points from your sTAMINA. With your sword red
with blood, vou tum to face another screaming
warrior.

CHAOS WARRIOR  5KILL 10 STAMINA II

if vou win, turn to 351-

318

The Warrior takes the key from around the dead
man’s neck before letting him drift on downriver to
the sea and a watery grave. The Warrior then swims
back to the ship and hands you the key. Inscribed on
the barrel you see the number ‘222’. Making a
mental note of the number, you slip the key inside
your pocket and order Captain Barnock to sail on.
Turn to 234.

319

‘Thatis a perilous journey,’ he says slowly, ‘and I'm
nat as young as I was. But I'd rather have danger
than sit around here all day. Ill do it for 20 Gold
Pieces. I'll take you through the dreaded forest.’
You pay Thog his fee and go back with him to the
im.

Early next morning you rouse your men and are
soon marching back to your waiting army. Thog
319

starts telling you all about his old adventures which,
after two hours, become extremely boring. Thank-
fully, you arrive back at the watering-hole where
your army is once again fully fit and ready to march.
Thor leads you directly east and, after crossing ont
of the tributaries that feed the River Kok, you come
to the eclge of the sombre forest. Dark, twisted trees
reach up to form a threatening wall. There is much
muttering in low voices, but then Thog shouts
cheerfully, ‘Come on, follow me- It's juste few Lrees
and a couple of monkeys.” As you step inte the
forest, the daylight quickly fades under a thick
canopy of leaves overhead, and the whole place is
deathly quiel, ‘The creatures are watching u5,
whispers Thog, ‘but the lite ones round the edge
won't do us any harm, It’s later on when we should
get worried, We'll swing right here, to avoid the
Tree Men.’ Your army threads its way through the
dark forest until it penetrates deep into its heart.
Turn to 180.

320-322

320
As you close the door behind you, you hear the Elf
cursing you loudly for abandoning her. Deduct 2
points from your LUCK; but you convince yourself
that your mission must succeed at all costs and
nothing must distract you from it. Turn to 211.

321

A howling scream erupts from the wide-open
mouth of the Shadow Demon. White smoke starts
to billow from his robes as Apglax stoops in tortured
pain. Still screaming, he shrinks to the floor until
there is nothing left of him but a smoking robe.
Banished to the Outer Planes, never to threaten
Allansia again, Agglax is defeated, Turn to 400.

322

You hand over 10 Gold Pieces to Laz and watch him
take out a map from under his robes. He lays the
map on the table and you see Zengis in the middle.
To the south is marked the village of Karn, and
further south-east are the Starstone Caves. To the
east of Zengis there is the Forest of Fiends, which
starts where the River Kok splits and runs east,
almost to the edge of the map. Laz takes out a black
crayon and marks a large cross on the eastern edge
of the map, just where the Forest of Fiends ends.
‘That's where you'll find him,’ says Laz. You fold up
the map and putit in your tunic pocket. You thank
the vagabonds for their help and leave the tavern to
explore Zengis farther. Turn to 382.
323-325

323
fhe morming passes uneventfully, except for the
sighting of a young Dragon with a Goblin on its
back. Flying above the range of your arrows, the
Dragon circles above your army fora few minutes
and then flies back east, no doubt to report your
presence to Agelax. You march on, and it is late
alternoon when you see smoke rising up into the
sky from 2 burning temple which is under attack
from hordes of Chaos Warriors. But as you tum
your army towards the temple, you realize that
somebody or something doesn’t want you to stop
the carnage. A small black cloud of flying creatures
moves quickly towards vou and, as they swoop
down to attack vour army, you see that they are Fire
imps. No more than three feet in length, they are
red in colour and have a pair of horns profuding
from their heads and 4 smail tail trailing behind
them as they fly. Spitting fire from their wide-open
mouths, they are ferocious creatures. They number
fifty in total. IF you have any Elven Archers left alive,
turnto 4. liyoudonothaveany Archers, tur to 386-

324 '
fhe guards decide that you are lying and tell you
that you are under arrest. If you azree to st) peace-
fully with the guards to jail, turn to 271. If you
would rather resist arrest and fight the suards, tim
to 363.

325
You are bitten by dozens of insects as you wade out

to the box. You pull the box out of the thick, clinging
326-328

mud and then climb back out of the pool. You prise
the box open — and find that it is full of bones which
are of no use ta you at all, You hurl the box back into
the pool and then suddenly you feel quite dizzy.
You are forced to sit down, and you break out into
a sweal. Your temperature rises and you are
trembling with fever. A mosquito has infected you
with a virulent form of malaria. Lose § points fom
your stamina. If you are sul alive, roll three dice.
if the total is the same as or fess than your SKILL,
turn to 210, If the total is greater than your SKILt,
turn to 136.

326
All six arrows find their mark in the soft under-
body of the Wyvern. It crashes to the ground,
accompanied by the screams of the Goblin. Tesi your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 123. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 289.

327
A rope bridge spans the chasm up ahead. You order

a man across ihe bridge to make sure that it will bear
his weight. Tle clambers across to the other side and
tums to awail your instructions. If you wish to send
your army across the bridge, turn to 200. If you
would rather call the man back and walk on, tum to

96-

328
You pull back the sacking and are confronted by a
small man, nomore than three feet tall; he is dressed

349-3352

in bright green clothes and is curled up inside the
barrel. He glares up at you with an angry expression
on his angular face. He has an odd-shaped hat on
his head that appears to be held in place by his long
pointed ears. ‘Put the cover back!” he shouts in his
squeaky voice. ‘I'm warning you.’ Then, as if from
nowhere, a rotten tomato hits you in the face. As
you stand there with bits of tomato dripping off
your chin, the small man begins to laugh. Will you
leave him alone (turn to 284) or attack him (tun to
187)?

329

As anybody in Fang could tell you, a barrel floating
down the River Kok is a not unfamiliar sight; it
happens at least once a month, and the citizens of
Fang have learnt through bitter experience to let it
float by and out to sea. The barrels are put into the
fiver by a mad Hag who always poisons the apples
first, and this is no exception. Roll one die. If you roll
1 or2, turn to179. If you roll 3 or 4, turn to 367, Ifyou
roll 5 or 6, turn to 54-

330

The deadly dart finds its mark and lodges in your
shoulder_ The fatal poison rushes quickly through
your veins and its effect is almost instantaneous.
You fall to the ground and are dragacd off, toend up
later in a cooking-pot,

332
You march on until late afternoon, stopping only

once for food; but as the light fades you are forced to
332-334

find somewhere to sleep for the night. You come
actass a ruined stone building, perhaps a trading-
post of old. A fire is built and you and your fifteen
men huddle round it to warm yourselves ayainst the
sudden coldness of the dark plain. Above the sound
of the crackling fire you suddenly hear the sound of
one rock hitting another outside. Quickly, you
order your men ta draw their swords, justas ten Rat
Men burst through the broken doorway. You must
fight a Skermish Battle. If you win, turn to 1210-

You reach for your seal and stamp it down on the
hot wax which the Calacorm drips on to the parch-
ment. After signing your name above it, the Cala-
comm rmunts and says, “Go.” Without waiting for it to
change ils mind, you cross the cave to the tunnel.
Turn to 377-

333
The Axeman snatches the rng from your out-

stretched hand, snorts once in satisfaction, then
turns and walks away. You set off in the opposite
direction in search of a tavern. Tum to 52.

334

The key turns in the slot and you hear a faint click.
The next thing you hear is the hissing sound of gas
escaping from the slot; before you realize what is
happening, you have inhaled some. It is a deadly
poison and you slump io the ground, clutching
your throat and gasping for air. Your adventure is
over,

3357337

335

You hand over the gold to the old man, who quickly
locks if away in a drawer. He picks up the little
creature and places it on vour shoulder, saying,
‘Now, Roob, be a good fiend to your new owner.
Remember everything | taught you.’ With the
Hopper sitting happily on your shoulder, you walk
out of the shop and on up the street. ‘Turn to 218.

336

A Dwarf runs behind the Rock Man and swings his
warhammer against its back. The Rock Man groans
in pain as the Dwarf lands another blow with his
weapon. The third strike of the hammer has the
desired effect and the Rock Man loosens its grip on
you. Fragments of rock splinter off it as it slumps to
the ground under a rain of hammer-blowss. Satished
that the Rock Man will not serve Evilagain, you give
the order to march on. Turn to 114.

337
The night ashore passes without incident, but at

first ight you heara loud buzzing noise. Aswarm of
large, black Harpoon Plies swoops down ta attack
your waking troops. Under the rain of poisoned,
needle-like spikes, your men raise their shields to
the sky. Roll one die. If you roll 1-3, turn to 69. If
vou roll 4—6, furn to 83.

335-340

338
As you pass by an open stable door, you hear the

sound of a scuffle coming from inside. You peer
round the door and see a Dwarf on his knees trying
to pull the clawed hands of his reptilian attacker
away from his throat. His adversary is green and
scaly and its spines have burst through ils brown
clothing. A long tail swishes from side to side anda
forked tongue flicks in and out of ils long-toothed
jaw. ‘Help! cries the Dwarf. ‘A Shapechanger has
got me.” If you wish to help the Dwarf, turn to 22. If
vou would rather walk on, tum to 149.

339
At such-short range the crossbow bolt is deadly. Its
sharp tip pierces your neck and you fall down
among the other brave soldiers who died to save
Allansia. Demoralized by your death, your army
turns and flees. Agglax is victorious,

349

Dead men don’t make good warnors, and you curse
your decision to waste your lime and energy on a
fniitless journey to Claw. Deduct 1 point from your
Luck. Wasting no more lime, you leave Claw and
return to your waiting army- You then march south
until you find a narrow fording place on the river,
Once safely across, you fim your army south-east
in the direction of Zengis. Turn to 49.
341-344

341
‘Fortune smiles on vou," the voice says slowly. “So
tell me, who is the goddess whose statue forms part
of my fountain?’ Will you reply:

Liriel? Turn tr 32
Libra? Turn to 250

342

Your march round the marsh takes you past a
wooden hut. If you want to stop to take a look inside
the hut, turn to 77. If you would rather keep on
marching, turn 60 211.

343
There is some writing on the paper, but it is ina
language that you do not understand. If you are
carrying the Hopper, tum to 125. If you are not
carrying the Hopper, turn to 294.

You try to jump beewerds but are struck m the
shoulder by the arrow. Deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA. The Wyvern is steered skywards again
by the Goblin as your troops rush to your aid. As
soon as your wound is bandaged, you give the

345-FA7

order to march on; privately, you wonder if the
attack from the air had been an assassination
attempt on behalf of Agglax. Turn to 220.

345
You have walked twenty yards down the tunnel

when you are suddenly bowled over by a huge,
hairy beast that leaps at you from out of the
shadows. Pain burns down your back from gashes
made by its powerful claws. Deduct 2 points from
your STAMINA. Your torch is knocked to the floor
but, miraculously, stays alight. Trapped in its
underground cell, the Nandibear is berserk with
rage and craves the taste of human flesh. You
struggle to escape from ils giant claws. Roll two
dice. If the total is the same as or less than your
SKILL score, turn to 66. If the total is greater than
FOur SKILL score, furn to 103,

346
The barrel floats by; idly you wonder what it may
have contained as it disappears from view. Turn to
209.

347
The girl slips the Gold Piece into her shirt pocket
and leans over to whisper in your ear: “The owner
doesn't like winners at the best of times, bul
strangers winning is more than he can tolerate. I’d
leave by the back door if | were you,‘ She seems to
be speaking the truth, so you slip quietly out af the
348-349

hall by the back door and, keeping in the shadows
whenever possible, make your way back to the inn.
Turn to 50.

The man’s head slowly turns towards you and in 2
slow, deep vwice he asks, ‘What kind of bet?’ You
point to two spilt blobs of jam on the table and tell
him that he can choose one of them and you will
have the other. Then you simply wail for one of the
many flies in the tavern to land on cither his jam or
your jam. Whichever blob is landed on first gives
victory. The man grunts and asks, “What's the bet?’
‘My 10 Gold Pieces against that gold brooch on your
tunic,” you reply. ‘Make it 50 Gold Pieces,’ the man
snaps back, If you wish to bet 50 Gold Pieces, turn to
7161. If you would rather abandon the idea of a bet
and ask the man his name instead, turn to 3-

349
You walk thr ough a section of the forest where there

are several mounds of earth into which clay dolls
have been half buried. If you wish to take one of the

350-351

dolls, turn to 226. If you would rather leave thern
where they are and press on, turn to 134.

350

Walking upriver along the bank, you pass six old
oak trees. One of the trees has long since died but

has a door set inits trunk. If you are curious enough
to open the door, turn to 167. lf you would rather
keep poing towards Claw, turn to 399.

352

Desperately outnumbered, you call the retreat and
run back with your five Knights to your reserve
troops. Your ears ring with the tormenting cries of
the victorious Chaos Warriors. Expecting them to
attack again, you scream out your battle orders. But
the warriors turn and trot back to rejoin the rest of
the evil army. You decide that attack is the best form
of defence and sive the order for your army to
march towards the front line of Trolls, Turn to £78.
352-353

352

Walking down the alley, you tread on aniron grate.
As you pass overit, the grate suddenly flies into the
alr and two ugly brown creatures scramble out of
the tunnel beneath the grate. Covered in warts and
dripping in sewage, two foul-smelling Sewer Gob-
lins, armed with spiked clubs, run forward to
ambush you. Fight them one ata time.

SKILL STAMINA
First SEWER GOBLIN 6 5

Second SEWER GOBLIN 6 5

if vou win, turn to 251.

353
Captain Barnock has the Flying Touea moored to

the riverbank long before the pirate ship is upon it,
and you order your men to jump ashore, Quickly
you line up the Elven Archers along the bank and
order them to be ready to fire on the command.
When the pirate ship is close enough, you shout
across to its captain, telling him not to ram the flying
Toucon as there is no treasure on board. If he wants
treasure, he will have to come ashore and fight forit.
You see the pirate captain examining your troops
through his telescope and you smile, satisfied thal
he will be surprised to encounter such a strong
force. Your plan works; the pirate captain shouts
outnew orders to his men, and you watch the pirate
ship sail past the Flying Youcen, downriver and out
of sight. Add 2 point to your Luck. Captain Bamock
begins to cheer loudly, until a coughing fit overtakes
354-356

him and he has to sit down to recover. But in less
than half an hour, all your troops and baggage are
aboard the Flying Toucan once more, and you set sail
upriver for Zengis. Turn to 175.

334
You step warily into the mouth, expecting a stone
slab to fall on top of you or a row of iron spikes to
shoot out from the wall. But nothing happens and
you are able to walk on. Tur to 53-

Vine is a skilful wrestler and somchow manages to
wriggle free from your grip, Before you realize what
is happening, the roles are reversed and your arms
are twisted behind your back in a painful hold. You
try with all your might to break free but, the more
you struggle, the more it hurts. In the end you have
no choice but to submit. Turn to 213.

356
Tiventy of your valiant troops lie dead or dying on
the battlefield. (Reduce the size of your army by this
amount on the Agzenture Steet.) Trolls are trying to
push the brave survivors back, while Goblins and
Orcs are attacking the flanks remorselessly. Berserk
with battle-lust, some of the Goblins and Orcs at the
back fight among themselves, so eager are they to
feel the clash of steel. To your right you see a
Warnor being attacked from both sides by hwo
Goblins. To your lefi, another Warrior is ‘being
clubbed to the ground by a Till Troll. If you wish to

3577358

help the Warrior on your left, turn to 269. lf you
wish to help the Warrior on your right, turn to 62.

357
The tavern is quite small inside and there are not

many customers. The atmosphere seems friendly,
$0 you make your way over to the bar to ask if the
barman knows of any guides. He points toa table in
the far corner and says, ‘Ask old Thog over there.
He used to be the best.’ You walk over to the table
and sit down next to an old battle-scarred warrior.
You explain that you want to hire a guide, ‘Where
do you want to go?’ he asks ina deep voice. Will you
reply:

Through the Forest of Fiends? turn to 329
To the Starstone Caves? Turn to 57
355

Laas reaches inside his furs and pulls out a long,
curved tooth, attached to a leather thony. ‘This is
the tooth of a Yeti,” Laas says with pride. ‘If you
Wear it, you will never be attacked by Werewolves
or any other Ly ‘canthropes- It is my wish that you
should have it, as you are prepared tu die to save
Allansia.” You let Laas place the tooth round your

SS Ss %
=. 4 vt
> 4H 4
359-361

neck and then tell him as much as you know about
the Shadaw Demon as you sail on upriver. Turn to
203.

359
Uhe Chaos Warriors are vicious fighters and they

also outnumber your Knights by two to one. If your
Knights include five White Knights, turn to 118. If
there are no White Knights in your army, turn to
317,

360

With lightning speed, vou dive to one side as the
fireball crashes on to the ground where you were
standing. You scramble to your feet just as the
Goblin rider looses its arrow at you. Roll one die. IF
you roll 1, turn to 304. If you rol] between 2 and 4,
turn to 344. If you roll 5, turn to 147. If you roll 6,
turn to 283,

361

You rush to the Dwwarf’s side and find that he is sill
breathing. ‘Pills he gasps. ‘Pills in my pouch - . .
give meone. . . Hurry, You do as he asks and give
him one of the three green pills from his pouch. In
less than a minute he has revived completely —even
the wounds on his neck are beginning to heal. “A
wizard gave me the pills as reward for saving his
life. Now I’m going to give you one of them tor
saving mine,’ says the happy Dwarf. (You may use
this pill at any time except during combat. It will
restore 8 poinis of STAMINA.)

362

The Dwarf goes on to tell you how the Shape-
changer had created an illusion to make itself
appear as an old man; in this guise it entered the
Dwarf's stable on the pretext of wishing to buy a
donkey. “As soon as we went inside, it attacked me
and began to change back to its original form.
Thanks to you I'm still alive. Look through its .
clothing and help yourself to any booty you find.’
You reach down and rummage through the torn
clothing. In an inside pocket you discover a gold
seal with the number '332' stamped on it. “Not bad,’
exclaims the Dwarf as you spin the seal up in the air
and catch it with your other hand. You say farewell
to the Dwarf and gu back inte the street. Turn to 149.

362
You walk further along the tunnel of the Nandi-
bear's lair, wondering who locked the beast under
the ground in the first place. And why? At the end
of the tunnel you find nothing but a pile of old
bone-covered straw. Unable to solve the mystery,
you leave the lair and walk out of the clearing. Turn

tO 325-

363-366

363
The guards are wearing chainmail and helmets and
are each armed with a spear anda shield. Fight them
one al a time.

SKILL STAMINA
First TOWN GUARD § ‘4

Second TOWN GUARD 8 bad

Tf you win, turn to 78.

364
You wait anxiously for an hour, but thankfully do
not develop a fever. You have escaped catching the
terrible affliction of lycanthropy. The rest of the
night passes without incident and in the morning
you lead your army out of the forest, across the new
plain. Turn to 323-

365

‘The dagger strikes the hilt of your siword which ts
tucked in your belt and falls harmlessly to the
eround. You suddenly realize that it would have
been fuolish to have taken the statue if the Wood
Elves’ attackers had left it alane. Bul you are alive
and the statue is yours. Finding nothing else of
interest, you decide to return to your army. Tum to
88.

366
The rest of the day passes without incident and, 2s
the light begins to fade, you give the order to set up
camp. The mood of your men is very sombre and

397

hardly 2 word is spoken round the campfire. After
the guards are posted, nobody wastes any time in
tying down ta sleep. Turn to 279.

367

Half an hour after eating the apples, same of the
soldiers become ill, yourself included. Deduct 3
points from your STAMINA and 1 point from your
skitt. Their health quickly deteriorates, and two
die quite quickly. Before the day is over, ten have
died in total: make the deduction on your Adventure
Sheel and also deduct 1 point from your Luck. You
regret your decision to give the apples to your men,
and resolve not to be distracted from your main
objective in future. Turn to 209.

-- 7 itt es" ble
Vie a sey PSSM,

hs lel,

4g

4! f,) Teh,

Bit, a

368-369

368

The door opens into a small reception room which
has low oak beams and white walls. In the wall
opposite, a fire is burning in the hearth, and above it
is 2 painting of a small sailing boat. A man is sitting
in a high-backed leather chair in front of the fite,
vigorously polishing a silver cup. You clear your
throat to get his attention and he turns towards you
and says, Tbeg your pardon, but I didn’t hear you
come in. As you can see, I'm busy polishing up this
cup we won at sailing. But I don’t want to bore you
with my sailing stories. A room will cost you 2 Gold
Pieces, including breakfast." You pay for the room
and wait for the man to give you the key. He stands
up. but instead leans against the hearth and looks
admiringly at the painting. ‘Ah, Harem was a great
boat with a great crew. We left all the other boats
clean behind and won all our races except for one,
and that was lost only because of Spike's naviga-
tion.” If you want to butt in and ask the man lor the
key. turn to §1. If you are prepared to be patient and
listen to the man’s story, turn to 183.

369
Might i suggest that you buy this wonderful little
Hopper,” the old man says with a smile, pointing lo
the kKanearoo-like creature that you were watching a
few moments ago. Tlisnameis Rooband he'll perch
on your shoulder quite happily all day long -
although he can hop along at walking pace if you
tire of him sitting on you. Not only does Roob
speak, he can also cast an invisibility spell on him-
370-372

self, and on you tuo, if he happens to be sitting on
your shoulder. Just say “One, one, one,” and puy},
you're invisible. He also understands the Troll
tongue. All I’m asking for Roob is 50 Gold Pieces.” If
you svish to buy the Hopper, turn to 335. If you
would rather leave the shop without buying the
familiar, turn ta 228.

370
You drag the Blog out of the tree and bind its arms
behind its back witha length of vine. You begin to
ask it questions about its village and about Agelax.
but the Blog understands only a few words of the
human tongue and is unable to reply. Will you:

Kall the Blog? Tum to 29
Gesture that you want treasure? Turn to 247
Set the Blog free? Turn to 169

37
The axe whistles past your head and clatters on the
streetin front of you. You stop fora moment to pick
it up and then mun off again, leaving the lumbering
Axeman behind. Turn to 52-

372
You walk along the tunnel for a few yards ~ but
in the gloom you do not see a tripwire which ts
stretched across the floor. You catch your foot in it,
causing a massive slab of ceiling rock to cash down
on tup of you, You are killed instantly.

373-375

73

You just manage to grab hold of Vine’s left ankle as
he tries to leap over you, and you pull him te the
ground You scramble on top of him and try to pin
him down with an arm-lock. Roll two dice. If the
total is the same as or less than your SKILL Score,
turn to 237. if the total is greater than your SKILT.
score, furn t 355-

7

The Weresvolf’s long jaw bites down on the neck of
the guard. Tt then turns to face you, its fangs drip-
ping with blood. You must fight the Werewolf.

WEREWOLF

If you win the fight without losing one Attack
Round, turn to 305. Lf you lost one or more Attack
Rounds and yet still killed the Werewolf, turn to
228.

SKILL 8 STAMINAQ

375
By now many of your men are awake, although five

Warriors are found who will never wake again.
Their throats have been cut by the midnight raider
and the gold rings cut from their fingers. If only you
had awoken earlier, this might never have hap-
pened. The lookout is found nursing a sore head,
haying been attacked from behind; an extra man is
put on watch forthe rest of the night. Not long after
dawn, Captain Bamock gives the order to set sail
upriver. Turn to 188.
376-378

376
You lock the door behind you and slump gratefully

into the soft bed. You are asleep in seconds and do
not wake until the morning, when there is a loud
knocking at the door. “Breakfast is ready! shouts
Obigee. After a large plate of ham and eggs you feel
ready to take on Agglax himself. The peaceful sleep
and plentiful food have done you alot of good. Add
2 points to your sraAMINA. You finally say farewell
ty Obigee and walk out into the street. After walk-
ing less than a hundred yards, the street ends ata
junction. If you wish to go left, tum to 65. If you
swish to turn right, turn to 268.

377
You walk into the tunnel and soon arrive al a

junction. If you wish to go left, turn to 85- If you
wish to go nght, turn to 214.

378
You sit down at the table and grect the man sitting

there; he is dressed in dark-brown leather armour
over black robes. But the man remains silent, the
vacant expression on his face unchanged. His
staring eyes remain fixed on the door as he raises his
mug to his lips and gulps down his ale. Will you:

Ask him his name? Tum to3
Move to the table with the

vagabonds? Tum to 18
Challenge him toa bet? Turn to 348

379-380

379
No sooner have you drawn your ssvord from your

adversary’s body than another moves forward ta
take its place. If you wish to continue fighting, turn
to 193. If you would rather try to distract the enemy
by throwing all your gold into the air, turn ta 394-

380

The Elves line up along the side of the ship and fire
their arrows at the surprised Raiders, Their aim is
deadly: eight Raiders are killed with the first volley.
The remaining Raiders realize it would be suicidal to
press home their attack, and tur their canoes
around to paddle back to shore as quickly as pass-
ible. A great cheer goes up from the deck of the ship
as you Sail upriver, away from the routed Raiders.
Turn to 309.

381-384

3h

The passageway opens out into a high-ceilinged
cave, brightly litby hundreds of burning candles. In
the middle is a marbie fountain carved in the shape
of a young goddess, dressed in long robes. Water
trickles from an urn which she is holding under her
left arm and in her right hand she holds a pair of
scales; a metal cup rests on top of a plaque in which
the word ‘Libra’ is etched. If you wish to drink some
water from the fountain, turn to 11. If you would
rather walk through the cave and down the passage
in the wall opposite, turn to 222.

382

After passing a row of old wooden houses you come
across 4 curious shop. There is nothing displayed in
the window except straw and an empty birdcage.
Brown paint is flaking off the window-frame and
also the door, above which is a sign which reads:
‘Pets — normal and unnatural’. If you want to enter
the pet shop, turn to 112. Lf you would rather keep
on walking, turn to 218.

383
The crossbow bolt lodges in your throat with a
sickening thud. You fall to the floor, clutching your
throat, and are dead within minutes.

384
A rope securing a block and tackle in the rigging
above you parts as the pirate ship rams the flying
Toucan. The block and tackle crash to the deck,
385-387

narrowly missing you. You run to look over the side
of the ship and see a gaping hole through which
water is pouring in. There is no time to lose as the
Flying Toucan starts ta sink; you order your men to
abandon ship and swim to the north bank. There is
much shouting and panic coming from Captain
Barnock's crew as you dive into the cold river. The
water is not very deep; looking back you see the
pirates boarding the half-submerged old ship. A
few minutes later, you haul yourself out of the water
anc count the cost of the sinking of the Flying
Toucen, Roll one die. If you roll 1-3, turn to 7- If you
roll ¢—f, turn to 313-

3

You congratulate Max on her excellent swords-
manship as she shakes your hand. You tell her to
meet Lexon at your camp outside Zengis where she
will receive her payment of 300 Gold Pieces (deduct
this from your Adventure Skeet). “You will not regret
hiring us,‘ she says as she leads her men away. You
watch her for a few moments, before turning the
corner of the street. Turn to 324-

386
Your army fights a Skirmish Battle against the fifty
Fire Imps. Lf you win, turn to 316.

387
As you step on one of the floorboards, it tilts for-
ward and the cotton holding the sword slips off the
spike. The sword drops straight down on io the Elf

388-389

but. to your surprise, merely bounces off her
stomach. ‘Untie me,’ she begs, ‘and L will explain!’ If
you wish to untie her, turn to 243. If you would
rather leave this strange Elf and return to your men
outside, turn to 320.

388

The crowd goes wild as Big Belly Man celebrates
victory once again. In his now familiar way, he
punches the air with his hands and roars in satisfac-
tion. You waste no time in making your sway to the
exit, feeling more than a little sick after gorging
yourself on the foul pie. Deduct 1 point from your
STAMINA. Feeling rather like an inflated Blood-
beast, you walk off along the street. Turn to 95.

389
You keep a watchful eve on the clearing as you walk
round it to rejoin the narrow path through the
undergrowth, Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn
to 162. lf you are Unlucky, turn to 308,

390-392

539°

Laas looks aggrieved and walks off to join his men.
A few minutes later he retums and says, Here are
your 100 Gold Pieces. We shall not be coming with
you, since we are deeply insulted.’ You cannot
chanve the Northmen’s minds and have to let them
disembark. Deduct 1 point from yourtuck. Feeling
slightly dispirited, you give the order to sail on
upriver. Turn to 203.

391

‘You are wrong,’ the Knight says sharply. “Go back
whence you came.’ If you wish to turn your army
round and march south along the edge of the
chasm, tum to 327. if you would rather attack the
Knights, turn to 148.

392

The point of your sword finds its mark, sinking inte
the soft yellow flesh, Thick green fluid pours from
the sound as the Mudgrinder thrashes around in
blind pain. You fall backwards, trying to avoid
being crushed. In a few moments the thrashing
staps and the Mudgrinder sinks silently into the
black mire. You walk on through the marsh and
thankfully reach firm ground again, but you are stil
angry for having lost the five men in the svamp-
Turn to 115.

393

393
The tunnel grows noticeably warmer and is now

also bathed in a soft, purple light. As you walk on, it
gets even hotterand the light becomes brighter. You
begin to sweatand have to squint to reduce the glare
of the strong purple light, Suddenly the floor pives
way beneath vou, and you find yourself sliding, feet
first, down a steep, coiling chute. You see the end of
the chute coming but are slicing too quickly to be
able to stop yourself from falling out. You land with
a splash in a pool of hot purple liquid, which is
situated in the centre of another cave. You climb out
of the pool and realize that purple light envelops
you, radiating out from your body, If you drank the
water from the fountain earlier, turn to 42. you did
not drink there, turn to 160.

394-395

394
The Gold Pieces fall through the air like huge salden
droplets of rain. Confusion immediately takes hold
of the enemy, as the Frolfs and Goblins scramble to
pick up the gold they so love. Oblivious to the main
battle, they fight one another feracously to claim
the fallen treasure. You seize your opportunity and
break through the disorganized ranks. Suddenly
you see the Demon you have been hunting. Sitting
calmly in a sedan chair supported by four hideous
Zombies, Aggiax watches you approach through
blood-red eyes. He makes no move as you get
nearer. Only his vile head and taloned hands shaw
from his black robes, a sight which sends a terrible
shiver down your back. Sensing danger at Agplax’s
calmness, you wonder how you should atlack him.

Will you:
Use a pendant (if you have'one)? Tur to 236
Use 2 crystal (if you have one}? Tum t 39
Use your sword? Turn to 301

395
The vagabonds’ interest increases when you men-

tion that you are willing to pay for information
about Agelax. ‘We know where this Agelax is build-
ing his army and we can mark the place on a map,‘
Sars Laz, sensing the smell of gold. ‘But,’ he
continues with a smug grin on his face, ‘more
importantly, we know how to help you defeat the
Shadow Demon. For 10 Gold Pieces, we'll show you
where Ageglax is. For another 90 Gold Pieces, we'll

Carnes eS eee

396-397

tell you how to weaken him.’ If you want to pay the
vagabonds 10 Gold Pieces, turn to 322. If you are
willing to pay 100 Gold Pieces, turn to 56.

396

You fall back against the trink and quickly regain
your balance. The Blog blows another dart down at
you, but it bounces harmlessly off your shield. You
seize the opportunity, climb quickly upwards and
grab hold of the Blog’s ankle before it can reload ifs
blowpipe. You tug on it hard and the Blog drops its
blowpipe trying to hang on to the branch. Butaftera
brief stragele it gives up and slumps back against
the trunk, its head bowed, to await the punishment
of your sword. If you wish to kill the Blog, turn to $2.
if you would rather interrogate it, furn te 370-

397
You let out an agonized cry and clutch at your throat

where the trident’s spike is lodged. You fall forward
and crash to the deck, slain by a lone Fish Man. Your
adventure is over.

398-399

395

You lift the lid of the box and see nothing but
bnifiant white light inside. Pain fills your eyes and
they feel as if they are burning. You blink several
Gmes but still can see nothing but white light. You
have lost your vision to the Blinding Stone. Deduct 6
pomts from your skitt and 2 points from your
Ltck. You stumble back ta your troops and call on
Lexon to act as your eyes and guide. Despite this
tragedy, you are determined to go on and shout out
the order to march, Turn to 181.

About an hour later, a voice behind you suddenly
shouts, “Look! Look up to the skies in the east. A
flving creature with a rider.’ You look up to see a
lizard-like creature with great green leathery wings
swooping down towards you ~ it’s a Wyvern, and
its Goblin rideris aiming its bow straight al you. The
Wyvern's mouth roars open to send a bursting ball
of flame down at you. Roll one die, If you roll a 1,
tum to97-. If you roll betveen 2 and 5, tum to 207, If
you roll 2 6, turn to 360.
400

400

On witnessing Aggiax’s destruction, the creatures
of the Army of Death go berserk. The various tribes
attack one another, each blaming the others for the
lass of their leader. You try tu get them to surrender,
but they are hell-bent on sell-destruction. In the end
you leave the Goblins, Orcs, Thll Trolls, Zombies
and Elite Fanatics to encompass their own annihila-
tim, while you march your army back to Fang in
triumph. But how long will it be before a new pen
threatens your beloved Allansia?
