2

_—— ee

FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS

Over 10 million copies sold worldwide!

"

r) A PUFFIN BOOK

UK {2 50
NZ $795
{incl GST}
CAN $495

|

]

NOSMOVI JATLS

4

INOLSONIATINVI ONY

[FAY JO [e310g

} GERZ £0
bLONSSI

gut] ACKSON
i“ LIVINGSTONE

T

:
|
}

<< ce Tak

<> ~ ceca

PUFFIN BOOKS
PORTAL OF EVIL

Shunned by humankind since time began, the hills and
valleys between the Cloudhigh Mountains and Lake Mlubz
have begun to echo with human voices and the rhythmic
sound of pickaxes. With the lure of riches beyond belief,
gold fever has hit this inhospitable place! But then one shaft
is dug too deep into the hillside and an ancient source of evil
is unleashed . . . and used, The consequences are terrifying,
as strange prehistoric creatures roam the woods and miners
and their families start to disappear. Only a brave and
resourceful adventurer can destroy this ancient evil before
it’s too late.

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you need to embark
on this thrilling ativenture, which is complete with its elabo-
rate combat system and 2 score sheet to record your gains
and losses.

Many dangers lie ahead and your success is by no means
certain. YOU decide which routes to follow, which dangers
to risk and which monsters to fight.
Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks

THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP MOUNTAIN
THE CITADEL OF CHAOS

THE FOREST OF DOOM
STARSHIP TRAVELLER

CITY OF THIEVES
DEATHTRAP DUNGEON
ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING
SCORPION SWAMP

CAVERNS OF THE SNOW WITCH
HOUSE OF HELL

TALISMAN OF DEATH

SPACE ASSASSIN

FREEWAY FIGHTER

TEMPLE OF TERROR

THE RINGS OF KETHER

SEAS OF BLOOD
APPOINTMENT WITH F,E.A-R,
REBEL PLANET

DEMONS OF THE DEEP
SWORD OF THE SAMURAI
TRIAL OF CHAMPIONS
ROBOT COMMANDO

MASKS OF MAYHEM
CREATURE OF HAVOC
BENEATH NIGHTMARE CASTLE
CRYPT OF THE SORCERER
STAR STRIDER

PHANTOMS OF FEAR
MIDNIGHT ROGUE

CHASMS OF MALICE
BATTLEBLADE WARRIOR
SLAVES OF THE ABYSS

SKY LORD

STEALER OF SOULS

DAGGERS OF DARKNESS
ARMIES OF DEATH

Steve Jackson‘s Sorcery!

1 The Shamutanti Hills

2, Kharé — Cityport of Traps
3 The Seven Serpents

4. The Crown of Kings

FIGHTING FANTASY - The Introductory Role-playing Game
THE RIDDLING REAVER

OUT OF THE PIT - Fighting Fantasy Monsters

TITAN ~ The Fighting Fantasy World

Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone
present:

PORCAL OF EVIL

by Peter Darvill-Evans
Illustrated by Alan Langford

Puffin Books
For Chris and Amy

PUFFIN BOOKS

Published by the Penguin Group
27 Wrights Lane, London w68 5Tz, England
Viking Penguin Inc , 40 West 23rd Street, New York, New York 10010, USA
Penguin Books Australia Ltd, Ringwood, Victoria, Australia
Penguin Books Canada Ltd, 2801 John Street, Markham, Ontario, Canada L3R 154
Penguin Books (NZ) Ltd,182—-190 Wairau Road, Auckland 10, New Zealand

Penguin Books Ltd, Registered Offices: Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England
First published 1989

Concept copyright ©) Steve Jackson and lan Livmgstone, 21985
Text copyright © Peter Darvill-Evans, 1989
Iustrations copynght © Alan Langford, 1999
Map copyright © Leo Hartas, 1989

Filmset in 11/13pt Linotron Palatino by
Rowland Phototypesetting Ltd,
Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk

Made and printed in Great Britain by
Cox and Wyman Ltd,
Reading, Berks

Except in the United States of America,
this book is sold subject té the condition
that it shall not, by way of trade or otherwise,
be lent, re-sold, hired cut, or otherwise circulated
without the publisher's prior consent in any form of
binding or cover other than that in which itis
published and without a similar condition
including this condition being imposed
on the subsequent purchaser

CONTENTS

HOW TO VANQUISH THE PORTAL OF EVIL
7
ADVENTURE SHEET
14
BACKGROUND
16

PORTAL OF EVIL
21
HOW TO VANQUISH THE PORTAL
OF EVIL

Your Character

You are a warrior, a skilled and hardy adventurer.
At the moment you are down on your luck: you
have no money, and your backpack contains Pro-
visions for only two meals. Your abilities, however,
are more noteworthy and remarkable than ever.
You will use dice to determine your exact attributes;
on pages 14~15 there is an Adventure Sheet on which
you will record your scores and the incidents of your
adventure. Use a pencil, or make photocopies of the
Adventure Sheet, as you will almost certainly need to
make more than one attempt to defeat the threat of
the Portal of Evil.

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one die. Add 6 to the number rolled and enter
the total in the SKILL box on the Adventure Sheet,

Roll two dice. Add 12 to this number and enter the
total in the STAMINA box.

Roll one die. Add 6 to the score and enter the total in
the LUCK box.

These are your Initial scores and you must keep a
permanent record of them. Any of your scores may
change during your adventure, but they will exceed

their Initial amounts only very rarely. You must
keep a record of all changes to your scores — so write
small or use an eraser.

Your SKILL score reflects your expertise in combat,
your ability with weapons, and your dexterity. Your
STAMINA is your health and fitness, and your abil-
ity to survive wounds and physical hardship. Your
Luck score shows how lucky you are.

Restoring Skill, Stamina and Luck

Skill

Your sx1Lt_ will not change much during your
adventure, and you should change it only if given
specific instructions to do so in the text. As SKILLis
a measure of combat prowess, it can be reduced by
losing your weapon or by the effects of poison, for
instance; acquiring a magical weapon could increase
your SKILL — but remember that you can use only
one weapon ata time!

Stamina
Your STAMINA will change frequently during your
adventure as you suffer wounds and then recover.
At various times you will be given opportunities to
eat meals and to acquire Provisions. Eating a meal
normally restores up to 4 points of STAMINA,
although there will be times, when you get very
hungry, when you will need to eat a meal simply to
avoid losing STAMINA; you may eat only one meal
at a time, even though you may have more in your
backpack. Unless specifically stated, your STAMINA
may never exceed its Initial score.

Luck

There will be times when the success or failure of
your exploits will depend entirely on your LucK.
You will be instructed to Test your Luck; the pro-
cedure for this is as follows: roll two dice. If the total
rolled is equal to or less than your LUCK score, you
are Lucky. If the total is higher than your Lucx
score, you are Unlucky. Whatever the outcome, you
must deduct 1 point from your LUCK score every
time you Test your Luck. As you will see, the more
you use your Luck, the less likely you are to be
Lucky. There will be occasions when you will be
able to recover some points of LucK; however,
unless specifically stated to the contrary, your score
cannot exceed its Initial value.

Combat

During your adventure you will meet other people
and creatures. Some of them will attack you; others
you will decide to fight. The procedure for resolving
battles is described below.

SKILL and STAMINA scores are given in the text for
each adversary that you face. Write these numbers

in the first vacant Monster Encounter Box on the
Adventure Sheet. Make a note also of any special
abilities or instructions that are unique to this par-
ticular opponent. The combat sequence is then:

1. Roll two dice for your opponent. Add the total
rolled to its SKILL score. This is the Attack
Strength of your enemy.

2. Roll two dice and add the total to your own
current skILL score. This is your Attack
Strength.

3. If your Attack Strength is the higher, you have
wounded your opponent: go to step 4. If your
opponent’s Attack Strength is higher, it has
wounded you: go to step 5. If the Attack Strength
totals are the same, you have avoided each
other’s blows — start a new Combat Round from
step 1.

4. Deduct 2 points from your opponent’s staAM-
INA. You may be able to deduct extra points if
you use your LUCK (see below} or if you have a
special weapon.

5. Deduct 2 points from your own STAMINA. You
may use your LUCK to reduce the seriousness of
this loss (see below).

6. Make sure you have recorded on the Adventure
Sheet all adjustments to the STAMINA and LUCK
scores of either yourself or your opponent.

7. Begin the next Combat Round, starting again at
step 1. This procedure continues until either you
or your opponent has a sTAMINA score of zero. If
your opponent’s STAMINA score reaches zero,
you have killed it and can continue with your
adventure. If your own STAMINA Score reaches
zero, you are dead; you must start the adventure
again from the beginning, first rolling the dice to
create a new character.

You may from time to time be given the opportunity
to escape from your opponent, If you decide to do
this, the battle ends — but the enemy automatically
wounds you once as you turn your back and flee.
You must deduct 2 paints from your STAMINA, You
can use your LUCK to minimize this wound, as for
any other (see below).

Often you will have to fight more than one oppo-
nent at a time. Sometimes you will be told to treat
them as a single opponent; at others, you will be
able to fight them one ata time; and sometimes all of
them will be able to attack you, while you defend
yourself and may attack only one of them. Specific
instructions will be given whenever you meet more
than one opponent.

Using Luck in Combat

You can use your LUCK in combat to inflict a particu-
larly serious wound, or to minimize a wound that
has been inflicted on you.

Whenever you wound an opponent, you may Test
your Luck: roll two dice. If the total rolled is equal to
or less than your LucK score, you have been Lucky.
If the total is higher than your Luck score, you are
Unlucky. (Whatever the result, you must remember

to deduct 1 point from your current LUCK score.) If
you are Lucky, you have inflicted a severe wound:
deduct 2 extra points from your opponent's sTAM-
INA. If you are Unlucky, you have merely grazed it,
and you deduct 1 point less than normal from its
STAMINA.

If you have been wounded, you can Test your Luck in
exactly the same way. (Remember to deduct 1 point
from your LUCK, whatever the result.) If you are
Lucky, the wound upon you was only a glancing
blow, and you can deduct 1 point less than usual of
STAMINA. If you are Unlucky, the wound is serious:
deduct 1 extra point from your STAMINA.

Getting Started

The forests that cover the hills between Kleinkastel
and the Cloudhigh Mountains are extensive and are
populated by dangerous denizens. You are very
unlikely to succeed in your mission at the first
attempt. It is recommended that you make notes
and draw a map as you explore. There is a way to
succeed that involves little risk, even if you start
with low Initial scores. There are many more routes
that lead to failure and unpleasant fates.

Start by reading the Background section; then go on
to the paragraph headed with the number 1. After
that, go to whichever numbered paragraph you are
instructed to turn to. Do not read paragraphs you
have not been led to: this amounts to cheating — and
will lessen your enjoyment.
ADVENTURE SHEET

MONSTER ENCOUNTER BOXES

SKILL STAMINA LUCK
Initial Initial Initial
Skill = Stamina = Luck =
EQUIPMENT LIST GOLD
POTIONS
PROVISIONS
REMAINING

Skill = Skill = Skill =
Stamina = Stamina = Stamina =
1
Skill = Skill = Skil =
Stamina = Stamina = Stamina
Skil = Skill = Skill =
Stamina = Stamina = Stamina =
Skill = Skill = Skil =
Stamina = Stamina = Stamma =

BACKGROUND

Far to the east of the great port of Kelther, a line of
snow-capped peaks divides the fertile lands from
the deserts and wastes that make up the interior of
the continent of Khul. To the humans who have
settled along the streams that run from the northern
half of the range, the peaks are known as the
Cloudhigh Mountains. Half-way down the range a
spur extending to the west marks the southward
limit of human habitation — or, rather, it did until
recently. From the southern half of the range,
streams rush through narrow valleys between hills
that are covered with impenetrable woodlands, and
drain into an inland sea. The forest is home to wild

beasts and to Goblins, whose name for the huge
lake is Mlubz.

No humans had set foot in the forest within re-
corded history. Southern tribesmen and, in later
centuries, armoured Neuburgers had shunned the
inhospitable hills. A few years ago, however, a
small band of trail-blazers set out from the frontier
town of Kleinkastel and disappeared into the forest.
Months later, two survivors returned — with gold
nuggets. Gold — that soft, malleable metal, useless
for making weapons or tools or even lodestones and
yet, in a way, a magnet. Its matchless lustre attracts,
not other metals, but human greed.

Within days, as if drawn by an invisible force,
humanity began to invade the forest from north and
south.’ Some came alone, with just a pickaxe and
shovel; others came as families, or in entire tribes;
some groups were as big as small armies. There
were miners; and there were those who provisioned
the miners, and others who swindled them; there
were robbers of all sorts, from desperate outlaws to
clerks and lawyers; finally, there were the Mar-
grave’s men, come to tax everyone else.

Bridges were slung across raging cataracts; giant
trees were felled; battalions of man-eating Goblins
were defeated and dispersed. Bands of outlaws
roamed the hills, more deadly even than the forest
creatures. In an effort to restore law and order, and
to generate income, the Margrave of Kleinkastel
declared the whole forest to be part of his demesne.
Now his foot soldiers march across the hills, chasing
bandits, selling mining licences, and dealing sum-
marily with unlicensed miners. To the miners, the
Margrave’s soldiers are just one more irritation.
Like the Goblins and the southern bandits, they
interfere with the serious business of digging for
gold. The most successful miners are already
wealthy enough to defy the Margrave. They employ
teams of less fortunate migrants to work the richest
seams, located deep under the higher mountains,
and they organize caravans to transport ore from
the highland diggings through the forest to Klein-
kastel, now a bustling boom town, where equally
wealthy merchants wait to weigh, assay and buy
their loads. One of the most successful mine-
owners is Gloten. Recently he sent out invitations to
selected warriors, including yourself, to come to
Keinkastel and work for him as caravan guards. At
the time you had better things to do than trudge
back and forth through a hilly forest at the beck and
call of a wealthy mine-owner, and you declined the
offer.

Now, however, something is very wrong in the
forest. Gloten has sent out messengers with another
story: miners, and sometimes entire families, have
gone missing from their villages; strange beasts, the
like of which have never been seen before, are
terrorizing the woodlands; and Gioten pleads for
one of Khul’s renowned warriors to come to Klein-
kastel and investigate these mysterious occur-
rences. He declares that he will pay the warrior’s
own weight in gold in return for restoring normality
to the forest. You could refuse neither the appeal for
help nor the lure of such a reward.

With the last two coins you possessed, you have
bought a map of the area (it is reproduced on the
inside front cover of this book) and you have it
safely stowed in your backpack, along with what
remains of your Provisions — after your long journey
from Kelther, you now have enough for only two
more meals. You are wearing leather armour; your
trusty sword hangs in its sheath at your belt. You
reached the forest without incident; however,
thanks toa rainstorm and the flooding of a ford, you

managed to miss the road that links Neuburg and
Festham to Kleinkastel and found yourself in the
depths of the woodlands. Last night you slept
rough in the undergrowth; this moming, you came
across a well-worn track, leading south-west, which
you hope will lead you out of the forest and towards
Kleinkastel, where you expect to find Gloten and
offer your services to him for the promised fee. With
luck, you will reach the little town before dusk.

Now tum to paragraph 1.

1
A line of blood-spots crosses the path. The blood is
sill warm and unclotted. Your hand goes to your
sword-hilt as you scan the surrounding forest. You
can hear nothing, but it is clear that a wounded
animal has crossed the path—a very large animal, to
judge by the extent of broken branches and tram-
pled undergrowth that show where the creature
crashed into the forest. You follow the trail between
the trees and into a clearing, where you stop in
amazement. The wounded animal is there — but it is
nota bear or a wolf or any other woodland beast you
have ever seen. It is like an enormous lizard, as big
as an ox, with a sail-like frill running the length of its
back and supported by spines. Its scaly hide shows
several severe gashes. Stroking the monster’s snout
is an Elf woman. As you enter the glade, the mon-
ster snarls and the Elf woman raises her sword; but
then, instead of attacking, they speak. Both of them
say: ‘Help us! Please help us!’ Even as they speak,
two soldiers come running into the clearing, swords
drawn, and advance towards the wounded beast.
Will you help to defend the monster (turn to 229), or
will you stand aside and await the outcome of the
confrontation (turn to 375)?

2
You find a broad-limbed tree that Jooks easy to
climb, and you clamber up to the highest boughs in
order to establish your whereabouts in the forest. If
vou want to eat a meal and regain lost STAMINA,
you can do sohere, perched ona branch. Remember
to note the changes on your Adventure Sheet.

From your vantage point, you survey the landscape;
now you have to decide in which direction to travel.
To the west the forest thins, and you can see a wide
track leading towards Kleinkastel. If you want to go
to the town next, turn to 143. To the south the forest
stretches into the distance like an endless green
carpet. If you want to head south, turn to 155. To
the east the vegetation rises up the foothills of
the Cloudhigh Mountains, and in the distance the
peaks form a jagged, bleak horizon. Beneath the
mountains are the mine-workings. If you want to
take this direction, turn to 22.

3
The more you twist and turn, the more you adhere

to the glutinous slime. By the time the tongue curls
round you and draws you into the Stegocephalian’s
fetid maw, you are completely helpless. At least
you are asphyxiated before the monster's digestive
juices begin to dissolve your body.

The stream bubbles down a series of small rapids as
the ravine becomes deeper, cooler and darker.
Jumping from rock to rock, you are becoming rather
footsore, and you are pleased when you find that
the ravine levels off and widens, and the stream
runs into a sun-dappled pool. You stop at the edge
of the pool; you cannot see a way to continue; unless

you wade through the water, or cross it by jumping
between the rounded boulders that are half-
submerged in the pool. Will you. turn back, trudge
up the slippery stream-bed to the place where
it veered sharply, and then climb the hillside
path (turn to 358); or will you rest in the shade of the
overhanging cliff while you consider your next
move (turn to 179)?

5

You continue along the path, which takes you
higher into the hills; there is a cool breeze, and very
few trees rise out of the scrubby hillside vegetation.
You look down to your right where the forest
stretches away into the distance. Closer, at the foot
of the slopes, you can see clearings in the woodland,
some of them containing hamlets, or single huts.
The path divides into two: one branch continues
uphill, and you think that you can hear the sounds
of fighting in that direction; if you take this path,
turn to 319. The other runs downhill, back into the
forest; if you take this path, turn to 144.

6
When all seven contestants have given their
answers, Gloten opens his fist to reveal 2 Silver
Pieces. You are one of four contestants who gave the
wrong answer. The three winners step forward to
acknowledge the cheers of the crowd. Gloten
approaches the losers. Turn to 339.

7

You try to shoo away the baby Pteranodon, but it
refuses to move. Instead, it increases the frequency
and volume of its screeching. You yell at it and
stamp your feet, and eventually it hops away, still
shrieking. You peep over the rock, to find that the
two Slave Warrior guards are approaching,
attracted by the noise you have been making. You
must fight them. Turn to 262.

8
You up-end your backpack and shake out your
purse. All your belongings are lying on the grass.
Do they include any Gold Pieces? If so, turn to 92. If
not, turn to 218.

3
You prowl through the jungle towards the centre of
the valley. You see no guards, but you do come
across several long, low sheds that are deserted, but
which you imagine have been used as barracks. The
Warlord has kept very few of his soldiers in this lost
world; but enough are left to guard his palace, as

you find out when you reach the edge of the jungle.
Staying out of sight, you circle the clearing in which
the huge stone building stands. Every doorway has
sentries posted at it; the closest you can approach
without being seen is to sneak up among the empty
outhouses. And finally you find an unguarded
entrance: a wooden lattice covers a hole in the floor
of an outbuilding. You lift this cover, and your feet
encounter a steep staircase. You descend into a dark
tunnel iluminated by occasional torches. It leads
towards the main stone building; after you have
followed it for some distance, it stops at a staircase.
Will you go up, presumably towards the upper
levels of the palace (turn to 378), or downwards
(turn to 201)?

10

The Margrave is outraged at your suggestion, and
orders his men to seize you. Gloten, however,
insists that you are brought on to the platform rather
than thrown at once into a dungeon. The crowd
surges forward to look at you, and Gloten speaks
out: “This warrior knows how a miner likes to fight!
Bring two pickaxe handles! We'll settle this here and
now?!’ He shrugs off his rich cloak. His body is short

and stout, but his arms bulge with muscles. He
throws you one of two wooden staves. You circle
each other, and then close in. The crowd rears its
approval.

GLOTEN SKILL 9

When the sTAMINA of either you or Gloten is
reduced to 4 points, you realize that the duel cannot
last much longer. You have to decide how you want
the fight to end. If you think it would be diplomatic
to let Gloten win, you can do so without losing any
more STAMINA. You simply pretend that Gloten’s
next few blows strike you hard, and then collapse
and submit, Turn to 389. You can, instead, carry on
fighting until the sTAMINA of one of you is reduced
to only 2 points, and that person submits to the
other. When that happens, turn to 314.

STAMINA 16

W
There are fewer paths criss-crossing the forest as
you continue eastwards, although the path you are
on is still well defined. The woodland round you is
dark and silent. You are beginning to wonder,
whether you have penetrated too far into the
forest — and then you see two bodies lying on the
path ahead. You approach cautiously. The dead
creatures are Scurrellors, long-tailed, fur-covered
humanoids who live in trees and are very rarely
seen by ground-dwellers. These two had been on a
hunting trip: each has a bow and an empty quiver,
and a bag of game birds. They have been shot down

with a crossbow: the metal bolts are still embedded
in their green-leather clothing and soft brown fur.
Will you search the bodies (turn to 151) or pass them
by and continue along the path (turn to 230)?

12

Clouds of darkness close round you from all sides.
You turn around and around under the grim gate-
way, desperately pushing your torch this way and
that to fend off the enclosing shadow. But your
torch cannot be everywhere at once, and the dark-
ness deepens round you. Your torch is snuffed out;
the black shadows wrap themselves round you and
snuff out your life.

13

The little punt is trapped in the whirlpool caused by
the monster's convulsions. It fills with bloody water
and sinks. You cling to it with numbed fingers until
the creature’s writhing body crashes into it and
breaks it apart. Dazed and helpless, you are barely
able to keep afloat as you are carried downstream.
You collide with submerged rocks and with the
timbers of a jetty; roll two dice and deduct the total
from your STAMINA. If you manage to survive this
watery ordeal, you find yourself washed up on the
eastern bank of the river. You pull yourself ashore
and collapse in the undergrowth.

When you wake, you feel stiff but able to walk,
Without a boat you cannot continue downriver; you
begin the long walk upstream. Turn to 278.
14

The dark shadows recede, absorbed into the black
stones of the Portal. Your vision clears: you pick up
your possessions and peer into the cavern, which is
still deserted. Then you turn to look through the
other side of the Portal— and gaze open-mouthed at
an impossible scene. Before you stretches a sunlit
wilderness — a vast panorama of marsh and jungle,
plains and forest, with snow-capped mountains
lining a distant horizon. Your mind cannot compre-
hend how all this can exist in the depths of a gold
mine; and then you realize that the Portal is a
gateway to another world. This is not Khul: the sky
is a different blue, the sun a different yellow. Some
of the monstrous animals you have seen before,
roaming the forest between the mines and Klein-
kastel; this other world teems with them. Like
mobile hilis, armoured monsters lumber across the
grasslands; flocks of sharp-beaked creatures soar in
the skies. Somewhere in this landscape lurks the
Warlord of the Slave Warriors.

You step forward and look back: from this side,
the Portal is just a black cave-mouth in a hillside.
Hoping to return, you conceal your burning torch
in a nearby rocky cleft. Three paths lead away from
the Portal; you ignore the middle way, which is the
widest and most used. Will you choose to go to
the left, through hilly country (turn to 239); or to
the night, into the jungle (turn to 322)?
15

The stream has now become a wide river, curving
through flat forestland of ancient green trunks that
rise majestically, as far as the eye can see, out of
dense brambly undergrowth. Your path clings to
the western bank of the river, and eventually you
find some evidence of habitation. An old wooden
jetty juts out across the shallows. Moored to it are
two boats: a flat-bottomed punt with a long pole,
and a skiff with oars. A track leads from the jetty
into the woods, where you see a hut. It occurs to you
that boating downstream would be quicker and
easier than walking. Will you take a boat (tur to
166)? Or will you go to the hut and knock on the
door (turn to 275)?

16

Lignia has no weapon and no experience of combat.
She offers no resistance to your blows. However,
she has surprisingly hard skin, like the bark of a
tree; despite all your advantages, you can inflict
only 2 points of STAMINA loss on her each Attack
Round, You cannot use Lucx in this situation;
therefore, as Lignia has 12 points of STAMINA, it
will take six combat rounds to kill her. As you attack
her motionless body, you are uncomfortably aware
that the leaves of the tree are rustling louder and
louder, and the branches seem to be bending to-
wards you. At the end of each Attack Round you
must roll one die; if you roll a 6, turn to 279. If you
reach the end of six Attack Rounds without once
rolling a 6, turn to 76.

17
Even muzzled, and with all four paws enclosed in
leather mittens, the huge bear is a formidable op-
ponent. Standing on its hind legs, it is an arm’s
length taller than you, and its thick coat of hair is as
protective as leather armour.

GIANT BROWN
BEAR SKILL 6

If you defeat it, you find nothing of interest in the
cell. You leave, closing the door behind you, and
continue along the corridor. Turn to 295.

STAMINA 13

18

The rocky pinnacle is yours. You look inside the
stone shelter: it is empty, clean and dry, and you
decide to stay in it during the coming night. It will
act as a hiding-place and as protection against the
cold wind. In the light of the setting sun, you sit by
the shelter to rest and reflect on your progress. You
may eat a meal from your Provisions, if you want to,
and restore up to 4 points of STAMINA. You take a
stroll round the summit to survey your surround-
ings. Turn to 123.

19

The guard tosses and turns in his sleep as you creep
past, but he does not wake. You pace down the
stairs, circling downwards in the dark interior of the
trunk, and finally you see a glimmer of grey light
ahead. The stairs end, and a short tunnel winds
between the tree’s massive roots to the leaf-strewn
forest floor. At the end of the tunnel stands an Elven
Slave Warmior; he has heard you coming down the
stairs and has drawn his sword in readiness. You
must fight him.

ELVEN SLAVE
WARRIOR SKILL 8

If you win, you emerge from the bottom of the
Elves’ tree-home and decide to get away from it as
quickly as possible. Turn to 150.

STAMINA 5

20

dy the flickering firelight you inspect the bodies of
the Goblins. They are a battle-scarred pair: one has
an eye-patch over an empty socket, the other has a
hook in place of a left hand. They were professional
thieves, to judge by the collection of trinkets and
assorted coins that each has in his purse. You find a
total of 6 Gold Pieces, which you can keep. You pull
the bodies out of the hollow and return to sit by the

fire until dawn. In the grey morning, before the sun
has risen, you scatter the remaining embers, make
your way back to the path and continue south-
wards. Turn to 36.

21

You surrender to the Half-Goblin guard and wait
with him as a group of warriors runs from the centre
of the town to find you. They take you back to the
little stone hut and push you inside — and this ime
they remember to lock the door. You can do nothing
but wait. If you want to, you can eat a meal from
your Provisions and restore up to 4 points of STAM-
INA. Turn to 110.

22

In spite of the jagged terrain and thick under-
growth, this part of the forest is a maze of smail
paths. Most of them run east-west, between the
mineworkings in the mountains and Kleinkastel.
Branches lead northwards into the hills and south-
wards into the heart of the forest. The highest peaks
of the Cloudhigh Mountains can be seen above the
treetops to the east, and you decide that this is the
direction in which you will travel.

You have been walking for some time when you
hear heavy footsteps behind you. You push on toa
clearing, where you turn and see your pursuers
emerging from the trees. There is a man in the
background, but you have eyes only for the bizarre
beast that is trotting towards you, uttering high-
pitched squawks. It is the size of an ostrich but
with no feathers and with claws instead of wings.
The eyes in its beaked head glare down at you as
it approaches. It is a Struthiomimus, and it be-
came extinct millions of years ago — but here it is
apparently very much alive, and intent on attacking
you.

STRUTHIOMIMUS _ skILig STAMINA 12
After three rounds of combat, turn to 189.

23
The black shape moves towards you. ‘Not good

enough’ echoes its weird voice. ‘Nota good enough
answer. However — you have paid for your boat-
trip, and you deserve another chance to succeed.
Come; step into the coracle.’

You feel weak and weary. As if sleepwalking, you
paddie through the shallows and step into the little
round craft. You curl up in the bottom, and as the
coracle drifts away from the shore you hear the
voice saying: “You will do better next time .. .’

You wake up on a path in a forest. You feel re-
freshed. All your scores are at their Initial level. Your
sword is at your side. In your backpack you have
nothing but a map and enough Provisions for 2
meals. You look around; the scene is very familiar.
You are sure that you have been here before. Turn
to 1.

24
Your jump takes you clear of the Giant Centipede’s
long body, but your feet collide with its erect tail.
Your head strikes the wall of the gully, and you
tumble to the ground in a senseless heap. Deduct 3
points from your STAMINA. If youare still alive, you
regain consciousness just as the stinging tail and
clicking mandibles are converging on your body.
You lash out in desperation.

GIANT CENTIPEDE

If you win, you step over the still wriggling legs and
hurry into the jungle. Turn to 9.

SKILL6 STAMINA 7

25

The river is now broad and slow-moving, and it is
taking you in a southerly direction. As you drift
along you have time to eat a meal from your Pro-
visions if you want to (restore up to 4 points of
STAMINA) and to gaze at the scenery. Both banks
are still thickly forested, but the undergrowth
appears to be less dense and to consist mainly of
vines and creepers. If anything, the trees are even
more massive than those in the forest further north,
with wide, glossy leaves. You think that open
giades in the forest are becoming more frequent as
you travel further south. Eventually you notice that
the flow of the river has become faster; at the same
time, you see the first signs of humanoid life since
vou took the boat: there are wooden jetties ahead,
one on each bank. You can now manoeuvre your
boat to one side or other of the river, to reach one of
the jetties; or you can stay in midstream. Will you:

Steer to the right, towards

the west bank? Turn to 382
Continue in the centre of the

river? Turn to 104
Steer to the left, towards the

east bank? Turn to 152
26
The Noasaurus roars, revealing rows of jagged
teeth, as you launch your attack.

NOASAURUS SKILL 8 STAMINA 12

If you manage to defeat it, you are not surprised to
find that your struggle has attracted the attention of
one of the Slave Warriors. You hardly have time to
recover your breath before he advances towards
you with mechanical movements. Turn to 135.

27
The thunder of hoof-beats dies away behind you,
and the forest is silent except for the lapping of the
river. And then you see it: through the gaps be-
tween the widely spaced trees, you can make out
sparkling water — a vast lake, or an inland sea,
rippling southwards as far as the eye can see. To the
north-east its coast is thick forest; to the south-west
itis bordered by wide grasslands. You walk on and
approach the tree-shaded shore. Bobbing on the
water, tied toa post, is a coracle. You head towards
it; and a shape appears in your path. Ten paces in
front of you, between you and the coracle, stands a
black figure —a silhouette —a completely dark shape,
squat but humanoid, its outline suggesting a com-
pressed Dwarf, in tattered robes and a floppy hat.
And all as black as a bottomless pit.

Suddenly the shape moves; and a voice seems to
emanate from the air: ‘Gold! Throw gold to me or I
will not let you pass!’ Will you:

Throw yourself at the shape in

attack? Turn to 306
Toss a Gold Piece towards the
shape? Turn to 77
Ignore the shape, and walk
past it? Turn to 345
28

As you continue to fight the Oviraptor, you step
back to dodge its beak — and collide with the
emaciated body of a Slave Warrior. Four of the
expressionless soldiers have entered the cage,
attracted by the noise of your fight, and are silently
watching your struggle with the small dinosaur.
Now they intervene: they fend off the Oviraptor,
take you out of the cage, and knock you uncon-
scious again. They carry you back to the Tyranno-
saurus’s pit, and throw you in. You are to be a meal
for the monster, and this time there is no escape.

29
The Goblins snatch the scroll from you and run off
into the forest. You sit on the edge of the jetty,
watching the sunlight sparkle on the river’s surface.
Behind you, the rustling trees are full of birdsong,

and across the wide river you catch glimpses of
forest creatures flitting between the trees. You wait
for the Goblins to return.

Several hours later, you have become very bored.
You begin to wonder whether you have been
tricked . . . perhaps the Goblins have no intention
of coming back. If you decide that you have waited
long enough, you canjump back into your boat, cast
off from the jetty, and let the current take you
downstream ~— turn to 104. Or you can set off in
much the same direction along the riverside path —
turn to 50. In either case, you have lost the letter ~
delete it from your Adventure Sheet. If you want to
carry on waiting, turn to 198.

30
Reluctantly, you unbuckle your swordbelt and drop
it on the wooden platform. Then you look over the
edge, to find that the rope-ladder now extends to
the ground, so you go down it. You wander into the
dell and unenthusiastically begin to inspect the
damaged plants. With your bare hands you dig
holes in which you replant uprooted saplings; you
clear the lawns of branches that have been hacked
off shrubs by passing soldiers; you replace turf in
boot-marks; you pull rubbish out of the stream. After
a while, you find yourself enjoying your work. You
stand up to survey the results and see Lignia walk-
ing towards you, followed by a dozen Dryads. She
is holding your sword at arm’s length, and she
returns it to you with a shudder. ‘Take this thing!’
she says. ‘I no longer fear that you will use it against
me or my forest. Forgive my mistrust, but we have
few friends now — even the Wood Elves have turned
against us. And please accept these gifts: I sense
that they will be important to you.’ Two Dryads
approach, each bearing a tiny bird in a small
wooden cage. One bird has red plumage, the other
blue. You put them in your backpack, and when
you look up you are alone again. You leave the
clearing and continue along the narrow forest path.
Turn to 144.

31

You pull the talisman from your backpack and let it
hang by its thong. The wizard stares at it in dis-
belief, then stumbles backwards, his face white with
horror and fear. ‘I think I know where I have seen
these markings before,’ he whispers, ‘and, if | am
right, this thing is more fearsome than my worst
imaginings. Come! Up this stairway to my library!’

In a bright, book-lined gallery, the wizard pores
over dusty tomes. You cannot read the ancient
script that he is studying. ‘It is an old Goblin
tongue,’ he explains, ‘and the Forest Goblins no
longer speak it, still less write it. This book, old as it
is, is merely a collection of fragments of songs and
stories that are thousands of years older. And yes!
As I thought — here is a description of a small stone
tablet inscribed in the same manneras this talisman.
It is apparently a replica, or representation, of some-
thing larger . . . I suspect that it will require several

hours of study to decipher this old story—and it may
be no more than a fable. If you do not want to waste
your time, J can carry out this research Jater, after
my return. We can leave now.’

If you urge the wizard to leave now, turn to 102.
If you want to wait while he studies his books,
turn to 81.

32
At the summit of the ridge, the track passes between
two rocks. You take cover there to survey the land-
scape on the other side of the ridge. You are Jooking
down into a circular, bow]-shaped valley. Jungle
vegetation covers most of its area, but clearings and
paths have recently been cut through the verdure,
and in the very centre of the valley a huge clearing
surrounds a palace, This massive building is so new
that its stone blocks are paintully white in the glar-
ing sun. Wooden outbuildings cluster against its
high walls. This must be the headquarters of the
Warlord who controls the Slave Warriors through
the power of the Portal, Looking along the rim of the
valley, you see patrols of tireless Slave Warriors.
Within the valley, however, there are no signs of
movement. A gully, into which you can just
squeeze, runs down into the valley from your
hiding-place, There is no other way to enter the
valley without walking into the open — and a Slave
Warrior patrol is approaching along the ridge. Will
you wriggle into the gully (turn to 156); or will you
step out of hiding, adopt a stiff stance and an
unblinking gaze, and hope that the Slave Warriors
take you for ane of their own kind (turn to.247)?

33
The man holds his knife to your throat while a
dozen or so roughly dréssed men and women,
armed with an assortment of knives, axes and
staves, emerge from the undergrowth round the
clearing and congregate round you. Turn to 216.

You retreat from the woman’s enraged onslaught,
trying to explain that you mean her no harm, and
colliding with silk-upholstered chairs and tripping
backwards over velvet floor-cushions. The woman
wields her length of chain with the skill of a sea-
soned gladiator, and you must deduct 3 points from
your STAMINA as you back away from her. If you
survive this attack, the woman suddenly stops. She

is staring at the doorway. You turn to see a Dwarven
Slave Warrior with a bunch of keys at his belt; he is
the gaoler. The woman snarls at him, but his gaze
remains fixed on you. He turns, presumably to go
and seek assistance to deal with you. You must stop
him, so you throw yourself across the room to fight
him.

DWARVEN SLAVE
WARRIOR SKILL 6

If you defeat the gaoler, the woman smiles at you
and pats her hands together in polite applause.
Turn to 276.

STAMINA 5

35
The enthusiastic mood of the hunters turns to anger

as they argue with you, insisting that you must face
the Triceratops alone. Your failure to do so mystifies
them, and brands you as a coward. Perhaps, after
all, you are not fit to be a warrior of the People. The
hunters take away your spear and thrust a short-
sword into your grasp before forcing you, at spear-
point, towards the dinosaur. You will have to fight
it; and with only a shortsword, your SKILL is re-
duced by 1 point for the duration of this fight. The
Triceratops scuffs the grass and prepares to charge.
As the beast lowers its head and thunders towards
you, you despair of ever defeating it.

TRICERATOPS SKILL 8

Your sword makes little impact on the leathery,
knobbly hide — deduct only 1 point from the Tricera-

STAMINA 18
tops’s STAMINA each time you wound it. Its horns
and its thick, muscular tail are formidable weapons
— deduct 3 points from your STAMINA each time it
wounds you. If you are still alive after five rounds of
combat, you are relieved to hear the war-cries of the
other hunters as they join in the attack. Sur-
rounded, the Triceratops is soon overwhelmed and
slaughtered. Turn to 390.

36

The trees of the forest are now so thinly spread that
you feel conspicudus as you stride southwards
through the grass that grows everywhere between
the trees and on which herds of animals imperturb-
ably graze. You hear the river to your left, and on
your tight you glimpse distant sun-baked plains
beyond the trees.

You hear hoof-beats. There is little cover, and you
are spotted by the nders - five Southerners in
flowing robes, galloping towards you on homed,
cloven-footed ponies. Will you stand and wait for
them to reach you (turn to 294)? Or will you run,
hoping either to outdistance them or to find a refuge
(turn to 134)?

37
Consciousness returns. You are in the forest. Your

body aches all over. Your eyesight seems weak; you
think you must be lying on the ground, looking up
at the trunks of trees that appear discoloured and
distorted. You move your legs to stand up; you hear

a scuttling noise from under your body and find
yourself being propelled across a clearing and under
a bush. You move your arms . . . and two huge
pincers swim into view in front of your eyes. The
Portal has transformed you into a Giant Scorpion.
You will end your life scurrying across the forest
floor, preying on small woodland creatures; mean-
while the Warlord’s armies will continue their
conquest of Khul.

38

The soldier looks at the barrels, peering inside some
and kicking the ends of others. The one next to
yours disintegrates under the impact of an
armoured boot. But the soldier fails to look in your
barrel and, as he stamps out of the tavern, you climb
out of the barrel. You find a back door; next to itis a
stack of unlit torches, bound reeds soaked in pitch.
You can take one, putting it in your backpack as you
slip through the door.

You find yourself on a narrow track, overshadowed
by forest trees; you head eastward and, out of sight
of the village, you rejoin the main path you had
been on before you entered the village. Turn to 11.

wr

39

You pull yourself through the narrow slit, and slide
in darkness down a short slope, landing in a foul-
smelling pile of rotting meat and other rubbish. The
slit was obviously the drain through which waste
from the beast’s enclosure is sluiced. You Stagger
across the fetid heap, and your outstretched hands
touch a wall. You feel your way along it and dis-
cover a narrow aperture. Forcing your way through
this, you find yourself wedged between two high
walls; a little grey light reaches you from a long way
above. You shuffle along sideways, until eventually
you emerge at a torch-lit landing; stairs lead up and
down; as you fear meeting your captors if you go
up, you decide to step warily down the stairs. Turn
to 78.

40
You are within range of the Dwarf’s boat-hook, and
you have to defend yourself against it. If the Koailit
is still alive, it will wrap its tail round your legs and
peck at your knees with its pointed beak; this will
reduce your SKILL by 2 points while you are fight-
ing the Dwarf, and cause you to lose 1 point of
STAMINA each combat round,

DWARF BOATMAN - skILL7

If you win, you can untie the boats, step into one of
them, and jet it carry you on your way downstream.
If you choose to do this, make a note of which boat
you use — the punt or the skiff — and turn to 227. If

STAMINA 5

you would rather leave the boats and continue on
foot down the riverside path, turn to 79.

41
As you stand at the side of the path you notice that
the ancient oak tree whose branches are sheltering
you from the sun has a hole in its trunk. Peering into
the dark centre of the tree, you can just make out an
irreguiar heap of twigs and dry leaves — and some-
thing shiny. If you want to reach into the tree to
pull out the heap, turn to 194. If you decide not to
do this, you continue to await the arrival of the
marching men. Turn to 363.

> ee
s

: 42
Te

. ~

a
~ 3!

7 >
A a
~)
a

7h

. a

J
42
Standing in the middle of a circle of taut bows, you
ask the Wood Elves what they want of you ~ but
they remain silent. You are not afraid: Wood Elves
are not usually unfriendly to humans. Another
band of Elves enters the clearing; and you realize,
from her bearing and her costume, that the leader is
the Queen of the tribe. You bow as she approaches.
She is stern and unsmiling, and asks you your
business. You explain that you are searching for the
source of the evil that has arisen in the forest. ‘Then
we can help you,’ she says. ‘You should travel east,
and up into the mountains; but tomorrow we will
escort you there. Tonight you must rest with us.’
You thank her for her kind offer, and accept it — in
fact you have little choice, as a dozen arrows are still
aimed at you. ‘Forgive our suspicions,’ adds the
Queen. ‘These days it is hard to know whom to
trust.’ The Elves form a marching column, with you
at its centre, and move off into the forest. You are
walking along woodJand paths, but the trees seem
dusty and your footsteps are muffled. If you havea
Potion of True Seeing, turn to 335; if not, turn to 217.

You are hurled against a jagged boulder, Bones
smash in every part of your body. Your corpse is
carried away by the torrent.
44
The Slave Warriors see you, and stop. They turn
and march away along the ridge. Your acting skills
deserve applause. You are now free to enter the
valley, and you slide down a dusty slope and into
the shelter of the jungle. Turn to 9.

45

You step through the door and hurry away from the
building. A strange noise — a series of soft pops
overlaid with a sizzling hum ~ makes you look back.
You witness the effect of lgneolite: when lit, it bursts
forth in a cloud of dust that covers stone — and
transforms it. You see the individual blocks of the
building’s stone walls and slate roof melting, flow-
ing together and re-hardening into one seamless,
featureless shape. The building has turned into a
gigantic smooth boulder, with the alchemist and his
gold sealed into the hollow interior. Igneolite is
clearly a powerful substance; you are sure that you
will find a use for the small sack of it that you have
in your pack. You decide to investigate the mine
entrance near by; turn to 106.

46
You guess that this ragged specimen is one of the
Slave Warriors whom the Spinosaurus mentioned,
You hope he will not see you. Test your Luck. If you
are Lucky, turn to 162. If you are Unlucky, turn to
193.

47
Horfak stops talking and steps back as you advance.

“You dare to interrupt me?’ he hisses. ‘And you dare
to threaten violence to your Warlord, to the Em-
peror of all Khul? Your attack is futile. Feel the
power of the Portal!’ He gestures with his arms, and
the black lightning crackles and seems to descend
from the ceiling, enclosing you. Pain stabs into your
head; your limbs feel heavy. Reduce yourskILt by 2
points for the duration of this fight. Horfak draws a
two-handed sword, and a laugh bubbles from his
twisted lips as he swings the blade in murderous
arcs, black lightning coursing along his arms.
Strengthened by the evil power of the Portal,
Horfak is a fearsome foe.

HORFAK SKILL 10 STAMINA 20
If you defeat him, turn to 170.
48

‘Well done, brave warrior. The wizard will be happy
to welcome you. Please step into the coracle — it will

take you to the wizard’s home.’ The dark shadow
vanishes.

You paddle through the shallows and sit down
inside the little round craft, which begins to drift
away from the shore. A mist creeps across the
surface of the water, obscuring the sun. Soon you
are no longer able to see the shoreline. After some
time, a shape looms out of the mist ahead of you. It

is @ tiny island, no more than fifty paces across. The
coracle draws towards it, and you see thatits surface
is piled high with rusty weapons; swords, spears,
shields, bows. The coracle bumps against a post that
stands in the water; the post once supported a
notice-board, but the inscription is so old that you
cannot read it, You wonder what you are supposed
to do.

If you decide to throw your sword on to the rusty
heap on the island, turn to 3§7. If you decide to keep

your weapon, turn to 205. If you have no weapon,
turn to 97.

49
You understand only a little of the language of this
mixed tribe of warriors, but it is clear that you are
their prisoner. They take you up the hill and into the
walled village. Here you are locked inside a small
stone hut. Soon the door is thrown open, and a
human woman enters. She speaks to you in an
archaic dialect of your own tongue. ‘Greetings,
Otherworlder. My name is Witta. | will explain your
situation. The gateway in the Sacred Cave used to
be kind to us: once every century or two, someone
from Otherworld would find it and come to us. My
grandfather was the most recent arrival; a Neu-
burger by birth and a forester by trade, he found
the gateway while exploring the caverns beneath
the Cloudhigh Mountains. We call ourselves the
People; here, all races are one tribe, and live in
peace, unlike the tribes of Otherworld. But since

Horfak arrived, the gateway glows with evil; none
but hordes of Slave Warriors enter our land through
it, and Horfak orders the Slave Warriors to destroy
our dwellings and make captives of us. I have more
to tell — but first, you must eat. I will fetch food.’ She
leaves — and forgets to lock the door! Will you wait
for her to return (turn to 360); or will you make a
dash through the door (tur to 72)?

50
As you stride southwards alongside the rushing
waterway, you find the forest thinning as the
ground becomes rocky; scon you are clambering up
and down crags and ravines. The path climbs higher
and higher until you lose sight of the river below.
Now above the tops of the forest trees, you zigzag
through massive boulders on your way up a steep
hill. Finally you reach the summit. It is a bare,
windswept crag, cold in the red light of the setting
sun. Ahead of you there is a shelter made of piled
rocks and stones; next to it, motionless, a cloaked
figure sits facing south. Its back is to you. Will you
call out, or cough politely, to announce your pres-
ence (turn to 373)? Or will you attempt to sneak up
quietly and attack the figure (turn to 171)?

51
Horfak steps back as you advance. ‘You dare to
threaten violence to your Warlord, to the Emperor
of all Khul? Your attack is futile. Feel what the Portal
can do!’ Black lightning streams from the tip of his
sword and surrounds you in a web of flickering

3

The heap of broken furniture is a nest. Inside it is a
large egg — and, scattered about, a total of 10 Gold
Pieces. You can take the egg, or the coins, or both,
and put them in your backpack — but not without a
fight. The tower shudders as two huge talons grasp
the parapet of the belvedere, and a nightmarish
creature emits a scream of rage as it sees you. Itisa
Pteranodon, a long-extinct flying saurian. It stalks
towards you, its scaly wings outstretched almost
across the full width of the room, its toothless beak
wide enough to swallow you whole. You will have
to fight it.

PTERANODON SKILL 5 STAMINA 8

If you kill it, you climb over its body and return to
the empty first-floor room of the tower. Turn to 109.

54
The Ankylosaurus is quick-footed despite its mass-

ive bulk. As you attack, it turns and swings its tail
towards you. The end of its tail consists of a knobbly
ball of bone, as big as a barrel and with long spines.
If the Ankylosaurus succeeds in striking you, you
must deduct 6 points of STAMINA; not many
creatures could survive such a blow.

ANKYLOSAURUS SKILL 4 STAMINA 22

As you fight, you leap and run about the dinosaur,
trying to stay clear of its murderous tail. If you
survive long enough to inflict three wounds on the
animal, it tires of the conflict, and ambles away
downhill. You are able to continue your uphill trek.
Turn to 32,

55
You clamber on to the seat and sink into the pile of

cushions. This is a very comfortable throne. You
rest your head against the high, carved back and
place your hands on the upholstered arms. The
arms feel a little loose; you inspect them and find
that they are hinged — you could lift them. Will you:

Leave the chair and wait for

Gloten? Turn to 211
Try to lift both of the arms

together? Turn to 173
Try to lift the right arm, then

the left? Turn to 126
Try to lift the left arm, then

the right? Turn to 296

56
You have spoken the correct number. ‘Very good!
Well done!’ says the enchanted door as you open it
and step on to a thick branch. Clinging to twigs as
you realize that you are in the topmost branches of
the Elves’ tree-home, you make your way to a
narrow, rickety stairway that slopes downwards,
criss-crossing from branch to branch. As you climb
down it, you pass openings in the massive trunk
and wooden buildings set among the branches, and
you can see that all the Elves have been tured into

Slave Warriors, and are silent and motionless. They
do not hear you pass, and your staircase ends on
one of the tree’s broad lower limbs. You hear a
groan, and you decide to investigate. Turn to 249.

57
The stream runs along the bottom of a valley, and as

vou follow its course the sides of the valley grow
steeper and higher until you find yourself in a deep
gorge. The cliffs that rise vertically from both banks
of the swiftly flowing brook block out most of the
daylight. You are on the west bank, where a narrow
path runs alongside the watercourse. At the next
bend in the river your path is squeezed between the
cliff and the water —and at that point there is a large
cave in the cliff face. You cannot cross the stream
here, so you must either continue along the path,
past the cave-mouth (turn to 246), or attempt to
climb out of the ravine (turn to 365).

58
You turn away from the Noasaurus’s questing
snout and start to creep towards the nearest tree.
This seems to infuriate the huge animal; it roars and
lunges at you, raking your back with its claws and
knocking you to the ground, Deduct. 2 points from
your STAMINA. If you are still alive, you pick your-
self up and see the Noasaurus strutting away as a
Slave Warrior, attracted by the noise, advances
towards you with his sword at the ready. Turn to

135.

— -_ —— owen. ee
59
The wizard’s metal horse skims the canopy of the
forest, sparks from its hoofs scorching the topmost
Jeaves. You travel north in this manner until the
green carpet below you is pierced by the stony
outcrops of the foothills of the Cloudhigh Moun-
tains.

The wizard brings his machine to earth ina clearing.
‘Tf you walk east from here,’ he says, ‘I think you
will soon find yourself in the thick of the trouble, if
that is what you're seeking. But if] can persuade the
Margrave and the mine-owners and the towns-
people to forge an alliance to fight the evil, we will
need wartiors such as you. Can I not convince you
to come with me to Kleinkastel?’ If you insist on
setting off into the forest, you bid farewell to the
wizard, watching his machine rise into the air once
more and fly into the distance, before you plunge
into the green undergrowth. Turn to 22. If you agree
to accompany the wizard, you stay seated on the
metal horse as it lifts into the air. Turn to 398.

60
Your torch stays alight. The echoing footsteps are
now almost at the open door of the ice room, but
you have melted two holes in the frozen sheet that
covers the closed door. With your free hand you
hammer on the ice; cracks zigzag across it; and then
the whole curtain of ice shatters and falls like a pane
of glass. Three Slave Warriors are crossing the room
towards you; with desperate strength you push

against the door. It opens and you fall through the
doorway; a descending blade catches your arm, and
you cry out in pain, but you turn, slam the door,
brace your shoulder against it and secure it by
sliding home the iron bolts. Deduct 2 points from
your STAMINA for your wound. The Slave Warriors
hurl their thin bodies against the door, heedless of
self-injury; you sit with your back against the other
side of the door, safe for the moment. You have time
to eat a meal from your Provisions and restore up to
4 points of STAMINA. In front of you stretches a
corridor lined with torches. You pick yourself up
and walk towards the far end of it. Turn to 372.

61

You join the excited crowds heading for the Market
Square. You overhear gossip: the town aldermen,
the Margrave and his lieutenants, and the chief
priests from the temples have been in conclave for
days . . . a mysterious wizard has arrived to join
their deliberations .. . there will be an announce-
ment at the public meeting today.

Kleinkastel’s dignitaries are gathered together ona
platform in the Square. Spectators point out for your
benefit Lne most important ones: the Margrave, tall
and young; the elderly priests; the merchants and
the mine-owners, among them Gloten, whoaddres-
ses the crowd. “You all know,’ shouts the short,
stout mine-owner, ‘that I have long been worried
about events in the forest. I hope that among you
are some brave warriors who have responded to my
previous appeals. The Margrave now shares my
fears; and we have recent news that the situation is
even worse than we had thought. An ancient evil, a
gateway between our world and another, has come
to life. With its help, a Warlord has arisen and
commands an ever-growing army of Slave War-
riors. We must unite to form an army of our own;
and, to buy time, we must find a Champion who
will try to find and defeat the Warlord. The Cham-
pion will be chosen by tournament. Contestants for
this position, to the platform, please!’

Will you enter the tournament (turn to 190), or will
you set out for the forest immediately (turn to 268)?

62

As you stroll across the clearing, enjoying the feel of
soft grass beneath your feet, you become aware of
movements in the midst of the grove of trees. You
approach cautiously; one by one a dozen delicate,
graceful forms step from among the trees. They look
like tall young women or young female Elves, but
their skin is dark brown, their hair is green and their
bodies are covered with leaves. They are Dryads,
tree-spirits that unti] now you thought existed only
in legends. They form a line to block your way, and
wordlessly point to the edge of the dell. It seems
they want you to leave. Will you:

Leave the dell, skirt round it,
and continue along the forest
path? Turn to 144
Go to the edge ot the deli and
climb the tree with the platform

in it? Turn to 366
Run at the Dryads, to force a
way through their line? Turn to 297
63

A flame flickers back to life on the smoking tip of
your torch. A tendril of darkness curls round it,
trying to quench it; but it stays alight, and the
shadows begin to retreat. Your two lights flame up
more strongly. The cold releases its icy grip on your
body. You have survived the Portal’s final attack.
Turn to 14.

O4

You stamp on the embers of the fire and scatter the
ashes. You lie on the warm earth, your head resting
on your backpack and your sword unsheathed at
your side. You fall asleep; and during the night you
dream. You have a feeling of being suffocated be-
neath a warm, black blanket; you want to struggle
but you cannot move. You wake up, shaking, and
look skywards —but the stars are concealed by a vast
pair of gently moving wings. Only two lights are to
be seen: the glittering red eyes of the monstrous
Vampire Bat that is gliding down to feast on your
blood. You grasp your sword and thrust upwards as
the leathery wings enclose your body and the bat’s
fangs seek your throat,

VAMPIRE BAT SKILL 6

STAMINA 7

If you survive, you stay awake for the rest of the
night, At dawn, you return to the path and continue
southwards. Turn to 36.

65

The woman raises her right hand, makes a sign in
the air and addresses you in a language you do not
understand. You reply in your own tongue; she
understands, and smiles at you. “You must be a
recent addition to the ranks of my subjects,’ she says
in an archaic dialect of your own tongue. ‘Iam your
Queen, Anxis the Hunter; obey me, and help me
take my revenge on the verminous Horfak. I must
escape from these chains; I must have a weapon.
Both can be achieved if together we prepare an
ambush for my gaoler. I will shout until he comes;
you stay by the door and take him as he enters the
room.’ You take up your position; Anis starts to
scream.

Very soon, a Dwarven Slave Warrior with a bunch
of keys at his belt appears in the doorway. As he
enters, you grab him from behind — and Anxis, with
a ghastly grin on her face, strangles him with her
chains. ‘Horfak’s chamber is above,’ says Annis as
she unlocks her manactes and picks up the Dwarf's
shortsword. ‘He wants me for his consort. Pah! I
would rather wed a jellyfish. All he will get from me
is naked steel. Come! Let us finish the loathsome
scum!’ If you have met Dirlin, turn to 138; if not,
turn to 334.
66

By the time your fight is over, there is a lull in the
battle for the hill. Your intervention has prevented
the Troglodytes from overwhelming the Goblins,
and they have scattered into the mountains, leaving
the hillside littered with the bodies of their fallen
comrades and an even greater number of slain
Goblins. Only two Goblin warriors remain in sight,
standing at the base of the glittering hilltop statue. If
you want to investigate this idol, you can try to
sneak to the top of the Goblins’ warren in order to
Spring a surprise attack on the two near the statue ~
ee ae or you can advance towards them
openly, dragging the bodies of the Troglod ou
have defeated in order to show that ag Sie
helped the Goblins ~ turn to 343. If you are not
interested in the statue, you retrace your steps along
the hillside path and descend into the forest — turn
to 144.

67

You run between the Spider and the Goblin, who
falls to the ground, gasping for breath. The Spider
stops and swivels to face you. It jerks its claw-tipped
front legs in the air. Its mandibles open and close,
making sounds that are distressingly like human
speech. Its body is as big as an ox, and its crooked
legs tower above you. It attacks.

GIANT SPIDER

If you win, turn to 220.

SKILL 7 STAMINA 7

68

You are inside a semi-circular palisade enclosing a
flat area of dirt before the cliff that rises ahead of
vou. Scattered across the enclosure are derelict
wooden sheds. A well-trodden track leads from the
gate in the palisade to a hole in the face of the cliff.
The hole is the entrance to the Horfak and Dirlin
mine workings — and also to the source of the Slave
Warriors and the other weird creatures that have
been terrorizing the forest inhabitants. As you
watch from behind a hut, another group of
scarecrow-like Slave Warriors shuffles out of the
mine entrance and heads for the gates, With them is
a glowering, armoured beast with a low belly and a
mountainous back crested with bony plates. When
they have gone, you approach the dark hole. A
torch flames in a bracket. You take it and, if you
have a miner’s helmet anda candile-stub, you puton
the helmet and light the built-in Jamp. Then you
enter the tunnels. The mine is disused and deserted;
some passages are blocked by fallen rocks. Only one
trail looks well worn; you follow it deeper and
deeper into the mountainside. It leads you, finally,
to a rough hole at the end of a narrow tunnel. You
step through, into a natural cavern. In the centre of
this cavern stand three huge blocks of black stone,
one laid as a lintel across the other two to form a
massive gateway. Turn to 397.

69

You pick up a small stone and throw it at the figure -
and are amazed to see the stone veer to one side, as
if caught by a strong gust of wind. It circles the
stationary old man and seems to pick up speed as it
hurtles straight back towards you. You dodge out of
its path, but the stone follows you and strikes you in
the stomach with tremendous force. Deduct 2
points from your STAMINA. If you are stillalive, you
are writhing on the sand, trying to recover your
breath, when you again hear the disembodied voice
of the black shadow. ‘Such bad manners! And such
foolishness, too. It is inadvisable to throw stones
at a wizard.’ You look up at the old man, who still
has not moved a muscle. ‘Are you a wizard?’ you
manage to gasp. Turn to 175.

70
You fight your way towards the Warlord, who is
trying to steer his chariot through the mélée to the
Sacred Cave. You leap up alongside him, push him
out of the chariot, then jump down to the ground
beside him. He turns to face you—and you recoil in
horror. His head, swaying on his shoulders like a
huge balloon, is a bulbous misshapen lump of
flesh. His face is stretched and distorted, the fea-
tures lost among rolls of blotched and flaking skin.
You are separated from the main battle by the bulk
of the chariot, and in the comparative calm the
Warlord taunts you. ‘You dare to face me? Fool! I am
Horfak! My strength alone could defeat you; with
the Portal, I am invincible. Feel my power!’ He

waves a hand, and the air vibrates; bolts of black
lightning crackle along his arms as he unsheathes
his two-handed sword. If you are wearing the mad
god’s mirrored helmet, or have another mirror, you
can interrupt Horfak’s gloating and place the mirror
in front of his face — turn to 330. Otherwise, you
waste no more time, but attack — turn to 51.

71

Your little craft manages to stay afloat. The mon-
ster’s convulsions lessen and finally cease as the
huge body sinks to the bottom of the nver. You are
battered, dazed and drenched. Deduct 2 points
from your STAMINA. If you are still alive, you find
yourself lying in the keel, with fetid water sloshing
over you. The boat is wallowing, and you force
yourself to concentrate on bailing out as much water
as you can. When you look around, you realize that
you have drifted back to the centre of the river, and
you continue to float downstream. Turn to 25.

72
You run through the doorway and out into a narrow
street. There are folk all around you, going about
their daily business; as you hurry through the lanes
between the stone huts, you realize that the People
are such a mixture of types that you can easily blend
into the crowd. You head for one of the gates in the
town’s wall, where you find that escape will not be
quite as easy as you had thought. The gate is
guarded: a Goblin-faced being as tall as a man bars
your way with a mace. ‘Everyone’s to stay in town
for the ceremony tonight,’ he says, as far as you can
understand. ‘Here! You're a stranger! Who are
you?’ Behind him, the wooden gates are open, and
the open countryside beckons; the streets round the
gate are deserted, but you can hear a hue and cry
beginning in the centre of the town — your escape
from the hut has been discovered. The Half-Goblin
hears the noise too, and eyes you with increasing
suspicion. To get through the gate, you must fight
him; if you decide to do this, turn to 367. If you give
yourself up without a fight, turn to 21.

73
‘What's this piece of old parchment?’ sneers the

officer, snatching the scroll from your hand. As he
reads it, his expression remains unchanged — but his
face gradually turns white. He gulps, rolls up the
warrant, hands it back to you, salutes, and says
through gritted teeth: ‘Please accept my apologies.
My men and I are at your disposal.’ You reply that
all you require is a rest and a meal, and to be allowed
to remain in the village while the troopers search it.
The officer orders a couple of soldiers to bring you a
table, a chair and some rations, and you eat a
pleasant meal in the village square, restoring up to
4 points of STAMINA if you need to. Then you go
to find out what, if anything, the soldiers have
discovered in the village. Turn to 327.

bub 4,

“w

74
You have many questions that you would like to

ask: What are the Slave Warriors? Where is this evil
Portal? — but it is clear that the Elf, imprisoned in the
body of the badly wounded Spinosaurus, is almost
exhausted. Gasping for breath, it manages to con-
nue: “The Margrave in Kleinkastel, the mine-
owners, the King of the Goblins, even the Wood
Elves — none of them know how bad things are here.
Gartax was a miner; he had the sense to get people
out of his village before the Slave Warriors arrived.
Now he and his followers live in the forest, trying to
organize some kind of resistance. He’s camped not
far from here — half a league to the south-east. He
can explain what’s going on. Now [ must rest.
Thanks for your help, warrior.’

You return to the path. Will you now continue along
it, south-westwards, towards Kleinkastel (turn to
143)? Or will you strike out eastwards, straight into
the wild and wooded foothills of the Cloudhigh
Mountains (turn to 22)? Or will you enter the forest
in a south-easterly direction, hoping to find Gartax
(turn to 263)?

73
You take a few steps backwards, and then run at the
Giant Centipede. You leap upwards just before the
creature’s clicking mandibles touch your legs. Roll
one die twice. If the total is less than your current
SKILL, turn to 337; if the total is the same as, or
greater than, your SKILL, turn to 24.

76

At last, Lignia lies motiontess at your feet, and the
branches of all the nearby trees are suddenly still.
Lignia shed no blood; even as you watch, the
wounds that you have inflicted begin to heal, and a
slight rustling of leaves begins again. You decide to
leave as quickly as possible; the rope-ladder has
unrolled to the ground, and you use it to descend
from the treetop platform. By the time you reach the
bottom of the tree, its branches are writhing to-
wards you with renewed enthusiasm; you assume
Lignia is recovering her strength. You are now once
again on the ridge that circles the idyllic garden dell.
Will you continue your journey by walking straight
through the middle of the dell (turn to 318); or will
you walk round the edge of it to reach the far side
(turn to 144)?

77
The Gold Piece sparkles as it turns in the air. The

strange black being makes no move either to catch
the coin or to dodge it. The coin meets no resistance;
it does not strike the dark figure; it simply dis-
appears into the blackness as if it had been thrown
down a deep well. Turn to 225.

The staircase is lit by torches. You reach the bottom,
which seems to be a dead end: a short corridor leads
from the foot of the stairs to a blank stone wall. You
wonder if a secret door is hidden here. On the wail
hangs a handwritten sign, part of which appears to
be in code:

TIDSIV FUUS!
KEY IS UNDER MAT!

You search the floor of the corridor, back towards
the stairs; you cannot see a mat of any sort. But the
corridor is wider than the stairs, and there is a pool
of shadow next to, and underneath, the staircase;
and you can make out the edge of something that
might be a piece of cloth — or even a mat. Will you
look under the staircase (turn to 341); or will you say
the words ‘under mat’, in the hope that they are
Magic passwords (turn to 386)? If you want to try a
different password of your own choice, write down
the words you will say before turning to 184.

The path continues beside the river for many miles
and then branches off from it and takes you deep
into the forest. You stumble and trip through the
bushes and creepers that stretch across the path
almost as if they had been placed there to obstruct
you. A voice with an unfamiliar accent cries out for
help somewhere ahead. You run forward — and
tumble into a pit lined with sharpened stakes. Gob-
lins crowd round the lip of the pit, pulling on the
ropes, and your broken body is hoist upwards ina
net. Human stew for supper tonight!

82

The Korven overhead shniek in frustration as you
escape into the forest. You find a path and follow it,
without meeting anyone or anything, until the
forest begins to thin, and you hear running water.
Through the trees you glimpse a stream. A pathside
sign reads ‘Deadpan Wharf’, and as you turn the
next corner you see warehouses, jetties and barges
nuddled between the forest and fast-flowing water.
This once-sleepy supply point is now alive with
macabre activity: silently, tirelessly, mechanically,
Dwarf Slave Warriors are loading boxes into barges.
You sneak through the trees to the doors of one of
the warehouses, and peer in. Itis empty, except for
rows of long oblong boxes. You hear footsteps
approaching, so you decide to hide in one of the
boxes. You lift up the lid — and a Slave Warrior
slowly sits upright in the box. You draw your sword
— but, as you do so, other boxes begin to open, with
pale bony fingers clawing out of the darkness,
blank-eyed faces turning towards you from all
sides. Dwarven Slave Warriors meet you as you run
for the doors. Your adventure ends here.

83
You conclude that Kteinkastel is a town of skinflints
and cowards. Some of the wealthy citizens that you
accost look down their noses at you as they brush
past, while others back away as if afraid that you are
a thief. You are becoming almost delirious with
hunger, and the increasing desperation of your
pleas only serves to alarm the people you address.
No one will help you. It looks as if you will have to
suffer the loss of 4 points of STAMINA, and then
continue your day in a weakened state — turn to 61.
Or you can try to steal enough money to buy a meal
— turn to 304.

84

As you trudge up the slope you realize that this
mine is not as deserted as it had first appeared. The
mine entrance is a simple opening in the hillside,
buttressed with timbers; from within it you hear a
continuous high-pitched twittering noise. The one-
storey building, made of large blocks of stone, is big
and rambling. It has only one door that you can see,
and a number of slit-like windows through which
you can see a flickering light. Before you reach the
building, the door is thrown open and a bizarre
figure runs out. He is a human, you think, tall and
thin but stooped with age. His tufts of white hair
and thick round eye-glasses give him a comical
appearance, but his strangest feature is his right
arm, which from shoulder to fingertips is made
entirely of metal rods and wires. It clatters as he
waves and shouts at you. ‘At last! A fellow human!
Greetings — I’ve seen none but those accursed Slave
Warriors for weeks now, and my work is nearing
completion. Please help me - I’m an old man, and
this metal arm is more decorative than useful, I’m
afraid.’

Will you agree to help the old man? If so, turn to 385.
If you refuse, you can go on to the mine entrance
(turn to 106), or return to the main path (turn to 5).

85
One by one, knives, hatchets, spears and axes
hurtle through the air towards you and bury their
blades in the wooden board you are standing
against. The warriors of the People are displaying all
their skill tonight: their weapons shave your skin
and impale your clothing, but not a single one
wounds you. Tum to 174.

86
For untold hours you lie senseless, half-covered by
ice-cold river water and exposed to the burning sun.
Deduct 4 points from your STAMINA. If you are still
alive, you eventually regain consciousness.

You are lying, face down, in mud, Every muscle in
your body aches as if you are being tortured on the
rack. Your head pounds. You drag yourself out of
the water, on to firmer ground, Amazingly, you still
have your sword and your backpack, although the
contents of the pack have been lost: delete all Pro-
visions, equipment and Gold Pieces from your
Adventure Sheet, You are on the west bank of the
river. It is daylight, but you cannot guess how long
you have been here — hours? days? You rest until
you feel able to move, then you head south through
the forest — turn to 36.
87
You are unable to withstand the shape-changing
power of the Portal. Through a red mist of pain, you
watch in horror as your limbs distort and your body
bulges and contracts. As you sink into merciful
unconsciousness, your last sight is of the caged
birds: as their tiny bodies crumple and then expand
again, the one with red feathers suddenly becomes
blue; the blue one acquires red plumage. Turn to 37.

88
You cannot escape from this fight; if you try to
retreat, the Struthiomimus will run you down with-
in minutes.

SLAVE WARRIOR SKILL 6

If you win, you can stay in the clearing to search the
body (turn to 160) or leave immediately, following
the eastward path (turn to 264).

89

You step through the Portal, and you are once again
in the cavern, deep below the Cloudhigh Moun-
tains. With one last glance at the sunlit jungles of the
lost world, you set off into the mine-workings,
hoping to make your way back to Kleinkastel. Your
future plan is to lead a team of volunteers back to the
mine to try and destroy the Portal by looping ropes
round it and pulling the stones apart. You have to
admit to yourself that it seems a hopeless mission.
You turn a corner and come upon a tunnel full of
Goblin Slave Warriors. They are milling about pur-

STAMINA 9

poselessly — until they see you. Then they attack.
You are outnumbered, overwhelmed and killed.

You have failed in your quest: Horfak the Warlord is
dead, but the Portal has the power to maintain the
Slave Warriors in their grim parody of life. Many
people will give their lives as the Margrave’s army
fights its way inch by inch into the forest and
eventually into the mines. The Slave Warriors will
fight to the very end; and the last few will block the
entrance to the cavern of the Portal — its evil will live
on, waiting to be discovered by the next greedy
being who digs too deep under the mountains.

go
‘So the bigwigs in Kleinkastel have decided to do
something at last! Or at least Gloten has. He’s the
sharpest of the mine-owners — he started out him-
self as a miner, just like us. I believe your story. I’m
Gartax: These are some of my people. The rest are in
camp, to the south. We have to go back there now.
Come with us — a trained sword will be useful.’ You
accompany Gartax at the head of his short column of
rough and ready troops. Bit by bit he telis you his

Story.

Gartax and his people lived in villages in the foot-
hills of the Cloudhigh Mountains. Alarmed by a
sudden influx of ferocious and abnormal beasts and
by the disappearance of villagers, Gartax and his
followers took to the forest. Now, Gartax tells you,
entire settlements are being found deserted. Silent,
pale-skinned soldiers, the Slave Warriors, infest the
area —and some of them are recognizable as mining
folk who disappeared weeks ago. Others are tribes-
men from the south, and some are Goblins. Gartax
had intended to create a woodland army to resist
these invaders, but their numbers increase daily
and Gartax’s only aim now is to lead his followers
safely out of the forest. Finally, Gartax falls silent

Will you ask for information about Gloten (turn to
362)? Or ask if there is anyone else who can help
(turn to 185)?

gi
You tie one end of your rope round one of the
uprooted floorboards, which you then place across
the gap in the floor. You drop the coil of rope
through the gap and, hand over hand, you begin to
descend, grasping the rope between knees and
ankles as you go. You see that these upper branches
of the Elves’ tree-home are a maze of ramps and
stairs that link the wooden dwellings. As you abseil
past open windows and doorways, you glimpse
some of the Elves: each is stationary and silent and,
now that the Queen’s illusion spell has dissipated, it
is clear that ali the Wood Elves are Slave Warriors,
having been enthralled by the evil power that you
hope to find and defeat.

You reach the end of the rope, but you have not yet
reached the ground. You scramble on to one of the
tree’s broad lower limbs, and as you stand there
indecisively, you hear a groan. It seemed to come

from inside the tree’s trunk. Will you investigate
‘turn to 249), or attempt the jump to the ground
‘turn to 293)?

g2
What a paltry sum!’ guffaws the bandits’ leader.
Tust our luck to come across the most destitute
warrior in the whole of Khul. I’ll tell you what, my
mend: this gold of yours isn’t enough to make you
sich, and it matters to us still less. Let's have a little
same. Let’s wager these Gold Pieces on one throw
ot our swords — I’m sure you’ve seen the way we
gamble in camp. Or, if you won't do that, let’s have
a decent fight. Kran here is our best swordsman —
vou can fight him for your money, and your other
possessions, and your life. What do you say?’

lf you want to gamble for your money in a game of
chance, turn to 331. If you choose to duel to the
death with the bandit Kran, turn to 164.

93
You remain motionless as the Noasaurus’s snout

sways towards you, nostrils snuffling; you manage
to keep still even when the beast’s fetid mouth
nuzztles your face. But one of the Slave Warriors
notices that the Noasaurus has discovered some-
thing interesting at the edge of the grove, and the
huge creature turns and struts away as the Slave
Warrior, sword at the ready, advances with mech-
anical steps. Turn to 135.
The Stegocephalian is vast and its skin is as tough as
boiled leather, but its only weapon is its tongue.

STEGOCEPHALIAN  skKILL3 STAMINA 19

If you survive until you have inflicted enough
wounds to reduce the creature’s STAMINA to 12 or
less, the Stegocephalian realizes that it is not worth
getting its tongue perforated just for one meal of
human being. It flicks its tongue and you fly out of
the cave, landing with a painful bump (deduct 2
points from your’sTAMINA) on the path next to the
stream. If you are still alive, the restrictions on your
SKILL no longer apply, and you can charge back into
the cave to finish your battle with the Stegoceph-
alian. If you do this, and win, turn to 377. If you
have had enough fighting and decide to continue
along the path, turn to 15.

95

You thrust your hand into the cold liquid and your
fingers grab a glittering chunk of gold-bearing ore. It
does not move. No matter how hard you pull, the
nugget will not budge; it is as if it is set in cement.
You withdraw your arm. If you reach in again to try
and pick up a smaller nugget, turn to 186. If you give
up fishing for nuggets, and return to the other room
to help Azudraz, turn to 316.

96

The silvery light from the ring on your finger is dim
and flickering, but it is a thing of brightness and
beauty that your mind clings to as you are engulfed
in wave after wave of intimidating vileness. Roll one
die three times. If the total is higher than your
current STAMINA score, turn to 349; if the total is
the same or lower, turn to 105.

97
Your coracle begins to drift away from the island of

rusty weapons and it is soon swallowed by the mist.
After a while, you see another, larger island appear-
ing out of the haze. The sun breaks through and
shines on wooded slopes. The coracle glides into a
bay, where you see a figure waiting for you on the
beach. It is a tiny old man — perhaps an old Dwarf or
Goblin — wearing a tattered cloak and a floppy hat.
The coracle runs aground on the sand. The figure
does not make the slightest movement; you peer at
tt and decide that it is human, an old man — unless it
is a very life-like statue. As you step ashore, he
Stares at you, or at the sea beyond you, without
moving. Will you ask him if he’s a wizard (turn to
175), or throw a pebble at him to see if he’s real (turn
to 69)?

98
Only the Slave Warriors hear your cries. The one
that was carrying you kicks you in the torso and,
while you are winded, knocks you on the head
again. You lose consciousness immediately, and are
unaware of being thrown into the pit and eaten by
the Tyrannosaurus.

The tower looks abandoned and derelict. It stands
in a clearing which the forest has begun to re-
possess. Solidly built of blocks of stone, it has four
storeys, of which only the topmost has started to
crumble. Ivy clings to its pitted walls. There are no
openings — not even an arrow-slit — in the ground
floor. A flight of stone steps leads up to the only
doorway, in the first floor. Higher up, there are
narrow windows, indicating the position of the
second storey; and you can see that the top storey
was a belvedere with wide arches supporting a
domed roof that has started to collapse.

You climb the steps and look through the doorless
entrance. Arrow-slits provide a little light. There is
one large room, dry, dusty and empty. It looks like a
good place to spend the night. A trapdoor is set into
the centre of the floor. If you decide to lift it and
inspect the cellar, turn to 129. If not, turn to 359.

by

100

The narrow path takes you up a ridge, and as you
reach the top you stop in amazement. You are
looking down into the most beautiful garden you
have ever seen. It is a large bow]-shaped dell, clear
of trees except for a fringe of woodland round its
circumference and a graceful spinney atits centre. A
stream flows from a waterfall at the edge of the dell
to a small lake near the central group of trees. Dense
patches of shrubs and flowers decorate the lush
grass which carpets the ground. You cannot believe
that such a place could occur naturally in the middle
of a wild forest. You notice also that the garden has
been damaged. Booted feet have trodden down the
grass, and plants have been cut with swords. And
then you see the rope-ladder, only half unrolled,
hanging against the trunk of a nearby tree; looking
up into the branches, you notice a wooden plat-
form. Will you cross the clearing (turn to 62), or will
you climb the tree to reach the platform (turn to
366)?

101

Before you can reach the edge of the clearing, you
hear a ferocious shriek and the rattle of claws. You
turn, to see the huge bird hurtling towards you,
flapping its tiny wings in anger. Not a moment too
soon, you draw your sword.

PHORORHACOS SKILL 7

After three rounds of combat, you notice out of the
corner of your eye that the man with the knife is

STAMINA 12
standing near by, hands on hips. He speaks.
‘Enough! Enough, Agrid! Hold still that beak of
yours fora moment, And you, stranger, put up your
sword. You are a well-matched pair for a duel, and
rou will only wound each other badly if you carry
an.’ The bird hesitates; you have a chance to deliver
2 fatal blow. Will you strike (turn to 351)? Or will
vou, too, pause in your attack (turn to 393)?

102

The wizard leads the way up a staircase to the roof.
Stumbling between slate-covered slopes, you final-
ty catch up with the wizard ona flat expanse of tiles.
The little old man is standing next to a misshapen
statue of a horse. It is made of bronze and gleams
Drilliantiy. ‘Not as elegant as a Pegasus, ] admit,’
says the wizard, ‘but rather more reliable — and it is
all my own work. Now jump on behind me, and
don’t forget to hold on to the handles!’

The wizard settles in the front saddle, and moves
some of the glass rods that bristle from the horse’s
mane. Sparks sizzle from under the metal hoofs —
and the machine is airborne. It rises through the
thick mist that surrounds the wizard’s residence,
and then you are out in the sunlight, with the blue
expanse of the lake beneath you (and, you notice,
no sign either of any mist or of any islands in the
ke!),

The wizard turns to you. ‘I'm going to Kleinkastel
<0 try to organize some co-ordinated action against
this rising evil. You should come too, we’ll need
doughty warriors. But1’ll put you down in the forest
if you'd prefer it.’

Will you go with the wizard to Kleinkastel (tum to
398) or ask to be left in the forest (turn to 59)?

103
The statue of the Goblin god towers above you, and
you are now able to see that the brilliant scintillation
has nothing to do with jewels — there are thousands
of pieces of reflective glass embedded all over the
surface of the statue. Pieces of mirror litter the
ground at your feet; if you want to, you can pick one
up and put it in your backpack. You heara noise and
turn to see two Goblin warriors tiptoeing from
behind the statue. They see you at the same time,
but before you or they can act, a wild howling fills
the air as the Troglodytes emerge from within the
mound and begin to climb towards the statue. Like
the Goblins, you move back to the base of the statue
to await the Troglodytes’ assault. Turn to 203.

104

Your little boat is swept along by the current and
buffeted by sudden eddies. You cling to your seat;
to your right, the forested bank continues as usual,
but as you career past the left bank you see that it
rises steeply, with sheer cliffs topped with a treeless
crag. Abrupuy, you are past the boulder-strewn
base of the cliff and you find that your river is
joining with another, even wider and faster, that

doods in from an easterly direction. Together, the
waters of the two rivers continue southwards in a
torrent. Your boat is tossed about like a cork. And
then you reach the rapids: the river cascades over
nalf-submerged rocks. You can do nothing but hope
that you will reach calmer waters quickly, before the
>oat smashes against one of the granite boulders. If
your boat is a skiff, turn to 178. Ifitis a punt, turn to

214.

105

Like a rock standing in the midst of gale-swept
waves, your mind survives the Portal’s onslaught.
The pulses of power finally ebb away. You are still
free; but you have not yet felt the full force of the
ancient evil. The Portal has failed to turn you into a
Slave Warrior; you are a reject, unfit for use in the
Warlord’s army. Your mind 1s too strong to be
overruled; instead, the Portal will transform your
oody. You find that you cannot move from the
shadow under the Portal. You are a prisoner,
trapped by invisible walls. You do not know what to
expect next. You lay out whatever possessions and
equipment you may have in front of you; as you do
so, you feel your flesh being touched. Invisible
hands pluck at your body, squeeze and twist your
limbs, as if gauging the amount of force required to
alter your shape. You cry out in pain as the pressure
increases. If you have two cage-birds with you, turn
to 302. If not, turn to 167.

ae |
106

Peering into the blackness of the hillside tunnel, you
see that a rockfall has blocked the passage, only a
few paces from the timber-framed entrance. Be-
tween the entrance and the tumbled rocks there is a
narrow doorway, and it is from here that the con-
tinuous twittering emanates. Lf you decide to go
through the doorway, turn to 371. There is nothing
else of interest on this bleak hillside, so the only
alternative is to rejoin the main path — turn to 5.

107
Gloten is astonished. ‘You are not only a diplomat
and a warrior,’ he says. ‘It is clear that you are also
either remarkably perceptive or very clever — or
both. Before we meet the Margrave to discuss your
mission, come with me to my house.’

You accompany the mine-owner to his mansion on
the outskirts of the town. His servants show you
into an audience-chamber, where you are left alone.
Apart from tapestries and a few couches, the only
item of furniture in the room is an enormous
armchair. It is as big as a throne, and you assume
that it is Gloten’s chair. While you are waiting for
Gloten to return, will you:

Sit patiently on a couch? Turn to 211
Sit m Gloten’s armchair? Turn to 55
Search the armchair? Turn to 347

108

The bear looks at you with suspicion as you stand in
me doorway. You step forward, and the animal
>egins to growl and rub its covered paws against the
teather muzzle that surrounds its snout. You fear
=nat the noise it is making will be heard by a guard
Will you step back, close and bolt the door, and
continue along the corridor (turn to 295); or will you
2pproach the bear and make signs asking for silence

turn to 208); or will you attack the bear (turn to 17)?

109

it is now dark, and you decide to make camp in a
corner of the first floor of the tower. You are very
nungry, and in need of some sustenance. You must
eat one meal from your Provisions or lose 4 points of
STAMINA.

Your sleep is undisturbed and you wake at dawn.
You leave the tower and return to the path, follow-
ing it southwards. Turn to 36.

se

110

Eventually the door of your prison opens and Witta
escorts you out of the hut. It is evening and the
streets are illuminated by flaring torches. You are
taken to a large open space at the edge of the town; a
tiled canopy, supported on timber pillars, extends
from the battlements of the town wali and covers
the entire area. All the townspeople are gathered
under this roof, and they greet your appearance
with a buzz of conversation. The People are a mix-
ture of every type of humanoid you have encoun-
tered on Khul, as well as some that you have never
seen before. Witta explains: ‘The man with the scaly
skin, looking a bit like a lizard, is the Shaman of this
town. The others, dressed like him in coloured
robes and feathered head-dresses, are shamans
from the outlying towns and domains. They are
waiting for you to begin the Ordeal. You must stand
against that wooden beard; the warriors will throw
weapons, testing their skill; with luck, they will all
miss you. If you flinch, you fail the Ordeal — the
heads of previous failures can be seen hanging from
the rafters. If you keep still, you will have proved
your bravery and will be accepted into the People.’

All eyes are on you as you lean back against the
scarred surface of the board and await the thud of
the first weapon. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 85; if you are Unlucky, turn to 233.

111

You begin to think that Kleinkastel is a town of
skinflints and cowards. Some of the wealthy
citizens that you accost look down their noses at you
as they brush past, while others back away as if
fearing that you are a thief. But in the end a very
mmportant-looking merchant, short and stout and
dressed in rich furs, stops to scrutinize you. With-
out a word, he hands you a small purse. You open it
to find 3 Gold Pieces within; when you look up to
thank your benefactor, you find that he has gone.
You immediately spend 1 Gold Piece on a hearty
breakfast, thus avoiding any loss of STAMINA, and
return to the bustling streets in good spirits. Turn
to 61.

112

You sit with your back against the rock and watch
the baby Pteranodon as it gulps down one of your
precious meals. It flaps its wings, then settles on
your knee to bask in the sunshine. You can tell by
the tightening grip of its talons that it is growing
stronger by the minute. You push it away and stand
up to peer over the rock; but the Pteranodon has
become quite attached to you, and it flutters up to
perch on your shoulder. The two Slave Warrior
guards are, or were, aged Gnomes. They see the
Pteranodon and begin to advance towards your
hiding-place. You prepare yourself for a fight — but
the Pteranodon saves you the trouble. With a ter-
rifying scream it launches itself into the air and
swoops towards the Slave Warriors, snapping at

them with its beak and raking them with its talons.
Two old Gnomes, even when armed with knives
and controlled by the iron will of the Warlord of the
Portal, are no match for a playful young Pterano-
don. They retreat down the rocky hillside, pursued
by the screeching pterosaur. The gate is left un-
guarded and you walk through it. Restore 1 point of
LUCK if you need to. Turn to 68.

113
“You may have no money,’ says the bandit leader,
‘but you’ve got-some spirit. Maybe we can have
some fun after all. You want to keep your sword?
Well, let’s see if you can use it. Our best swordsman
is Kran here. You can fight him — for your sword,
and the rest of your stuff, and your life. After all,
you won't need any sword or belongings once
you're dead, will you?’ If you are willing to go
through with this duel to the death, turn to 164.

If you aren't, you must surrender your sword: re
duce your SKILL by 4 points until you acquire
another weapon. The bandits take everything you
own, then ride away, Turn to 27.

114
You land on your feet and roll forward on to your
hands. You feel shaken, but you are not hurt. You
check that all the equipment in your backpack is
intact, and then you decide to get away from the
Elves’ tree as quickly as possible. Turn to 159.

115
There is no sound or movement within the cave. If
vou want to take a look inside, turn to 329. If you
prefer to hurry away from the cave and continue
following the path beside the stream, turn to 15.

116

You wave the food in the air, hoping that the
Ankylosaurus will detect its scent, and then you
throw it down the slope. The huge animal blinks,
looks at the food strewn across the hillside, looks
back at you, and then finally lifts its great body and
turns. With surprising speed it runs down the rocky
slope, causing a minor avalanche, and finally skids
to a halt to gobble up the food. You are able to
continue your uphill trek. Turn to 32.

117
The black shape shimmers like heat haze. After a
moment of silence, its ethereal voice comes again:
‘And why, searcher for wizards, should the wizard
be interested in talking to you? A wizard’s time is
valuable, you know.’

if you have a scroll containing a letter from the King
of the Forest Goblins to the wizard, you can produce
it and explain how you came to obtain it. If you do
this, turn to 48.

If you describe the strange things you have seen and
heard of in the forest, and say that you would like to
help combat the spreading evil, turn to 252.

118
Having climbed down the rope-ladder, you walk
along the ridge that encircles Lignia’s dell. When
you reach the far side, you turn back to look across
the beautiful garden towards the platform in the
treetop. Lignia is standing there, tracing a pattern in
the air with her thin brown fingers. You turn again
to continue your journey, and see an upright
wooden stake in your path. You step forward and
pluck it out of the ground. It is a stout staff, a little
longer than a sword, and made of the hardest
timber you have ever seen. One end has been
carved to forma handle, with a weighty pommel, so
that it balances in your grasp just like a well-made
rapier; the ‘blade’ is lined with rows of razor-sharp
thorns, and terminates in a large spike. It is a truly
deadly weapon, although it contains no metal at all.
It seems to be a gift from Lignia. You may now
restore the SKILL points that you lost while you had
no weapon. You walk away from the dell. Turn to

144.

119

As you stumble through the forest, you concentrate
on expanding your muscles, hoping to loosen the
ropes that bind your hands and arms. The effort is
very tiring, and you begin to trip over tree-roots and
blunder into bushes. Deduct 1 point from your
STAMINA. Success depends on your determination
and the strength in your arms. Add together your
SKILL and STAMINA. Roll one die seven times and
add together the scores. Compare the two totals. If
the die rolls are equal to or less than your combined
SKILL and STAMINA, you succeed in shrugging off
your bonds. You choose a moment when your
captors are distracted by a noise in the woods to slip
away unnoticed. You still have your sword and
your backpack. You wander aimlessly through the
forest until you are sure that there is no pursuit.
Turn to 2. If the total of the die rolls is higher than
your combined SKILL and STAMINA Score, you are
unable to free yourself. Despite all your efforts, you
are still a prisoner when your captors arrive at their
camp. Turn to 333.

cu As 7, ryt
roars ee ae

Aale uy rT - oe
oe -

—

-

120

You pull the hunting-horn from your backpack, fill
your lungs with air, and put the horn to your lips.
The Troglodytes recoil as a strident blare fills the
skies, echoing back from the mountains and rolling
across the roof of the forest. As it fades, the Troglo-
dytes recover their courage and move in for the kill;
but you can see dots circling in the blue distance
above you, like specks of dust in a ray of sunlight.
And as you parry the clubs of the first attackers to
reach you, the Eagles arrive, plummeting like
stones from unimaginable heights, spreading their
vast wings at the last second with discordant
shrieks, as their talons sink into the Troglodytes’
flesh. Feathers and flashing eyes and cruel beaks
surround the Troglodytes, who try to fight back,
and then flee. Meanwhile the biggest of the Eagles
hovers above you and you throw your arms round
its claws, It carries you up, past the appalling face of
the Goblin god; as you fly past, you see the stone
eyes move! A voice in your head is offering you
thanks, and as you feel extra strength surge through
your sword-arm you know that the statue has re-
warded you for your help in protecting it. Add 1
point to your Initial SKILL.

The eagle swoops down to the hillside path, and
you jump to the ground, shouting your gratitude.
You retrace your steps downhill and enter the
forest. Turn to 144.

121
The bandit leader hurls the swords into the air. They
land with a clash of steel, and you and the bandits
crowd round them to see how they have landed.
‘Equal!’ shouts the leader. ‘We play again! I will add
another 5 Gold Pieces to the sack. What will you put
in, friend?’

You have no more money to wager, so you must
contribute one of your other possessions, or your
sword. Make a note of what has been put in the
sack, and roll one die six times. If you roll more odd
numbers than even, turn to 157; if more even than
odd, turn to 248. If the numbers are equal again,
don’t turn at all! —- go back to the top of this para-
graph and increase the stakes yet again. If you have
no more possessions to put in the sack, the bandit
leader will not add his 5 Gold Pieces either, but the
game will continue until you roll an unequal num-
ber of odd and even die-rolls.

122
You tear yourself free from the Slave Warrior's grip
and run. The Tyrannosaurus snarls deafeningly as
you race round the rim of its pit, then you set off
down a narrow corridor. With a steady rhythm of
footsteps, the Slave Warriors run in pursuit. One
side of the corridor is a blank wall; the other, you
glimpse as you run past, consists of a series of
barred cages. The corridor ends at a descending
staircase; next to it, the last cage has a closed door,

secured with a bolt. Wiil you go down the stairs
(turn to 78), or will you draw the bolt and try to hide
m the cage (turn to 265)?

123

To the south the hill drops precipitously; far below
you at the base of the cliff you can see rushing
waters. Two rivers — the one you boated down and
another, from the east - merge at this point and
tumble in a white froth over rock-strewn rapids.
Further on, the waters slow and the wide river
disappears into the forest. In the distance, beyond
the forest, you think you can just make outa sheet of
still water. To the west, across the mouth of the
tributary that you floated down, the forest appears
less dense. Above the trees that line the opposite
bank, the crumbling parapet of a tower is silhouet-
ted against the red-streaked sky. As you watch, a
bizarre creature, huge and bat-winged, lands on the
broken stonework. There is no way across this river,
mor, when you look east, is there any hope of
crossing the other tributary that flows into the
rapids. Beyond it, the forest lies like a carpet across
the flatland and the rising foothills beyond. In the
distance, the peaks of the Cloudhigh Mountains are
touched with the fire of the dying sun. You shiver,
then crawl into the shelter to sleep. Turn to 312.

126

The arm-rest is heavy, and the hinge is stiff, but as

you pull upwards you can feel movement beneath
you, which encourages you to continue. As you
yank the arm to an upright position, the chair tilts
backwards at terrifying speed, and spear-heads
thrust through the cushions to propel you down the
chair-back, as if down a child’s slide, into the pit thal
has opened behind the chair. As you tumble dowa
the abyss, you see the chair begin to right itself as
the trapdoor begins to close, shutting out all light
Your adventure énds here.

127

The torch falls from Azudraz’s metal hand and
drops on to the pile of crumpled paper at the place
where the various fuses meet. Within seconds, the
centre of the room is ablaze; thick smoke fills the air,
and all you can see are the eager lines of fire nmnning
towards the sacks of Igneolite. You drop to the floor
and cover your head, expecting an explosion; but
each sack, as the flame reaches it, bursts with a
gentle pop, sending up a cloud of glowing dust
which coats the stonework. When the flames have
died and all the sacks have burst, you inspect the
walls. You have been imprisoned: Igneolite melts
and remoulds stone in an instant. The entire build-
ing has been turned into a seamless curtain of
smooth rock. Doors and windows have dis-
appeared. Eventually, you may be able to dig a
tunnel and escape; but this adventure ends here.

128

You fall through whip-like sprays of leaves and hit
the ground awkwardly, on your back. If you have a
large egg in your pack, you find that it has broken —
and the baby Pteranodon inside it is dead. If you
have two tiny cage-birds in your pack, you find that
the cages are crushed and the birds have been
killed. Deduct 2 points from your STAMINA, for the
severe bruises you received as you landed.

Hf you have survived these misfortunes, you decide
to get away from the Elves’ tree as quickly as pos-
sible. Turn to 150.

129
The trapdoor has an iron ring which you tug up-
wards, to reveal a wooden ladder leading down into
the darkness of the basement. You climb down and
stand in the musty silence while your eyes become
accustomed to the meagre light from above. This
cellar has been used for storage, but it appears to
have been ransacked and looted. Boxes, barrels and

“sacks lie, broken open, all over the earth floor —
which, you notice, has been recently disturbed. As
you explore the dark corners, you hear a snuffling
noise behind you. You turn to see the floor moving!
Soil is being pushed up from underground, and a
strange star-shaped snout protrudes to sniff the air.
The whole creature emerges: it is an Armoured
Mole, a blind subterranean carnivore with scaly
plates like those of an armadillo protecting its body.

This one is a giant — as big as a large dog ~ and its
pointed teeth and powerful claws make it a danger-
ous opponent. Its star-shaped nose has scented
vou. It moves towards the corner in which you
stand. If you decide to try to confuse the creature’s
senses by knocking over boxes and spilling food-
stuffs out of barrels, turn to 209. If you would rather
fight it, turn to 273.

130

You tear the blindfold from your eyes and cry out in
horror as you see the monstrosity that is clinging to
your chest. It is a Saltsucker from the southern
deserts, and it will graze harmlessly on the salt on
your skin — as long as you keep still. Your violent
movement has alarmed it, and it will attempt to
wrap its tentacles tightly about your limbs while
gnawing your body with its beak-like mouth.

SALTSUCKER SKILL 4 STAMINA 5

Because your feet are bound and you are encum-
bered by the Saltsucker’s tentacles, you must reduce
your SKILL by 2 for the duration of this fight. The
Saltsucker’s beak is pressed against your body: it
wil inflict 2 points of sTAMINA damage on you each
Attack Round, regardless of who wins the round. In
each Attack Round that you win, you inflict 2 points
of STAMINA damage on the creature; each round
that the Saltsucker wins, it winds another tentacle
round your limbs, reducing your SKILL by a further
point. If you win, you look about you and see that
half the contestants are still standing motionless,

oe

with Saltsucker tentacles all over their faces. You
have not proved to be among the more courageous.
Turn to 339.

131

Nothing you can say convinces the officer that you
have any good reason to be in the forest. ‘As I am
sure you are well aware,’ he says, ‘this forest and
the surrounding hills form part of the Margrave’s
demesne, and a person such as you has no right to
be here— unless, of course, you have the Margrave’s
authority, or unless you are a miner. But let me
warn you: if you want to claim to be a miner, you
will have to be able to produce a Mining Licence. I
doubt if you have sucha thing. Of course, Ican issue
one to you; the fee is 5 Gold Pieces.’ Will you agree
to pay 5 Gold Pieces for a Mining Licence? If so, turn
to 222. If not, turn to 394.

132

Gartax is overjoyed. He calls a meeting of all the
camp’s inhabitants and, as you meet them one by
one, it is clear that their spirits are lifted by your
presence. As an experienced fighter, you are able to
suggest several defensive techniques that Gartax
had not thought of — placing trip-wires in the forest
round the camp and concealing archers in the trees -
as well as organizing some last-minute tuition in
swordsmanship.

The camp’s cook brings you a hearty meal, and
you have just finished it (restore up to 4 points of

STAMINA if necessary) when the attack begins,
heralded by the tinkling of bells attached to the
trip-wires. All in the camp rush to the defensive
positions you have arranged for them. You take
your position on the perimeter; you can hear move-
ment in the forest.

Will you advance into the trees to try to spy on the
enemy (turn to 280)? Or will you hold your position
in the defensive line and wait for the attack (turn to

370)?

133
Racked with pain, you stand rigid, every muscle
denched. The two tiny birds are unable to with-
stand the shape-changing power of the Portal, and
vou see their bodies crumple into shapeless bundles
and then expand again — and the one which had red
feathers now has blue plumage, while the blue one
is now red. This transformation exhausts the efforts
of the invisible hands that grip your body, the
pressure eases and then disappears. You have sur-
vived; but the Portal will not let you go. It has failed
to twist your mind or your body; now it will try to
obliterate you. Pulsating clouds of inky blackness,
darker than the deepest unlighted abyss, collect
round the lintel of the Portal and begin to roll down
towards you. Shadows creep towards you from
both sides. You need light to keep the darkness at
bay; how many lights do you have to burn? [f you
have only the one torch that you picked up at the
mine entrance, turn to 12. If you can hold up two

lights — by adding an extra torch from your own
equipment, or by wearing a miner’s helmet with a lit
candle-stub in its lamp as well as holding one torch-
turn to 283. If you have enough torches to hold one
in each hand as well as wearing a lit miner's helmet-
three sources of light — turn to 307.

134

You sprint through the trees, hoping to find a patch
of denser woodland through which you will be able
to travel faster than the ponies. But the hoof-beats
sound louder and louder, and then they are right
behind you, and you are struck a tremendous blow
which knocks you senseless to the grass. Deduct 2
points from your STAMINA. If youare still alive, you
recover and pull yourself upright. Turn to 294.

235
In the centre of the grove, the man and the Dwarf,
although wounded, are managing to hold off the
remorseless attacks of two of the Slave Warriors.
The third, silent and expressionless, faces you, but
does not attack immediately. His sword is pointed
at your chest, and he seems to be giving you an
opportunity to surrender. If you decide to sheathe
your weapon and put up your hands, turn to 328; if
you choose to attack the Slave Warrior, turn to 260.

ar ’

136

The old Goblin knows quite a few words of your
language, and when he has rested for a while he
thanks you endlessly for saving his life. To keep him
quiet, you give him a meal from your Provisions
(deduct this from your Adventure Sheet) which he
devours ravenously. As he finishes you ask him
why he is out alone and unarmed in the forest.

‘Important diplomatic mission,’ he says. ‘Can't do it
now. Too weak. You know of the Wizard? The
Wizard of the Lake? That’s why no weapon. Wizard
won't have weapons on his island. Got to take a
letter to him. From my master, the King of the Forest
Goblins. Need the Wizard's help to fight the Slave
Warriors. All our people disappearing, coming back
like zombies, attacking everyone. Need help. Hu-
mans, too. But I can’t finish this journey. Will you
deliver the letter?’ The Goblin pulls an inscribed
sheet of hide from inside his jerkin. It doesn’t smell
very pleasant, but it appears to be an official docu-
ment. If you agree to take it, note down the fact on
your Adventure Sheet. You then continue your jour-
ney downstream along the clifftop path. Turn to
399. an
op

;

”

‘i

Vd
You dip a corner of your cloak into the tank. Noth-
ing happens. You pull it out again. It is wet. The
liquid has no particular smell. You put your tongue
to the wet patch of your cloak — the liquid tastes like
water. Will you put your arm into the tank to
retrieve a nugget (turn to 95), or will you return to
Azudraz in the other room and continue to help him
move nuggets (turn to 316)?

138

You manage to persuade Anxis that Dirlin would be
a valuable ally. You lead her back to Dirlin’s cell,
where you use the gaoler’s keys to unchain the great
bear's legs. Both Anxis and Dirlin are afire with lust
tor revenge on Horfak, but you find time to gobble
down a plateful of food that had been left for Dirlin
(restore up to 4 points of STAMINA) before the two
of them lead the way along the corridor and up a
flight of stairs. You emerge into a wide corridor: you
are in front of a big wooden door guarded by two of
the largest Slave Warriors you have yet seen. One is
half Orc, half Cave Giant; the other was in the
Margrave’s elite infantry regiment. “This is the
entrance to Horfak’s chamber,’ says Anxis. ‘Let us
dispose of these two buffoons. Attack!’ Anis
launches herself at one of the guards, while Dirlin
tackles the other; they draw their opponents away
along the corridor, leaving you facing the big
wooden door. You take a deep breath, and prepare
to face Horfak. You push open the door, and walk
through. Turn to 395.

139

As you approach the river’s eastern bank, you make
out a maelstrom of swirling waters beneath the
overshadowing trees. The boat begins to rock
alarmingly, but you cannot prevent it being dragged
towards the centre of the disturbance, where the
water is bubbling and splashing as if in a cauldron.
From the prow of your little craft you can see
something moving below the seething surface —and
suddenly from the boiling waters erupts a massive
reptilian head. It is almost as big as the boat, and it
sways towards you on a serpentine neck. The crea-
ture is an Elasmosaurus; you are to be its next meal,
unless you act quickly. Many yards away, its
muscular tail thrashes the water into a froth, and
you realize that the monster will capsize the boat at
any moment. You draw your sword and manage to
stand up as the huge head swings towards you. The
Elasmosaurus is covered with thick scaly skin; your
only chance is to try to drive your sword into its
mouth or eye as it comes close. Roll one die twice,
and add 2 to the sum of the scores. If the total is less
than or equal to your SKILL, turn to 266. If the total is
greater than your SKILL, turn to 396.

140
You are standing on the edge of the jungle, about to
start up the bare hillside towards the township of
stone huts, when you are ambushed. From right
and left, a motley collection of warriors emerges
from the vegetation. Some of them are Goblins,
others are Dwarfs, Elves, Orcs, and remarkable

hybrids of several races; most are human, or neat
human, but from very diverse peoples — one is tall
and dark-skinned, another short and fair, a third is
covered in hair, like an ape. All of them have
weapons, and they are closing in. You have only #
moment in which to decide: will you surrender
(turn to 49) or run (turn to 383)?

144

Standing close to you, the dark figure seems thin
and flimsy enough to be blown away by the breeze.
Even as near as this, you can make out no features of
the thing’s face, body or clothing — just deep black-
ness. Its hand touches your forehead, but you feel
nothing at all— and then you fall, unconscious. Lose
2 points from your STAMINA. [If you are still alive,
you wake up a few seconds later. You are lying on
the beach. Your head aches. The scene has not
changed: the black shape stands between you and
the coracle that bobs on the water. Turn to 225.

142
You crawl out of sight of the Slave Warrior guards,
and approach the fence. It is made of thick timbers,
each of which is twice your height and whittled toa
point at the top. There are no gaps between the
timbers, which are held together with huge iron
nails. The structure is far too strong for you to be
able to break through it— but at least you can be sure
it is strong enough to bear your weight as you begin
to climb it. You manage to find enough toe-holds,

and are soon within reach of the top of the fence.
Your hands grasp two of the pointed stakes, and
you pull yourself up till you are astride the top— and
then you grimace in agony as the acidic slime with
which the points have been coated begins to eat into
the flesh of your hands. Deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA. You lose your grip, and fall sideways.
Roll one die to determine which side of the fence
you fall to: if you roll an odd number, turn to 228; if
you rol} an even number, turn to 8o.

143

The track leads you out of the forest, and you can
make out the town of Kleinkastel nestling in a
hollow between gentle grassy slopes. The old town,
mo more than two crossed streets and a jumble
of tall, thin houses protected by an ancient forti-
fied wall, has been surrounded by new suburbs.
Spacious mansions belonging to the merchants and
mine-owners alternate with patches of wretched
shanty town. The gold rush has caused a frenzy of
new building, but the most impressive edifice is still
the Margrave’s castle, its turrets out-topping even
the grandest of the new villas. As you enter the
town, you are amazed at the throng of people.

You realize that, with evening approaching, you
will have to find a bed for the night. If you have
some money, turn to 271. If you have no money,
turn to 181.

144
Coming down from the hillside, you plunge into the

dark shadows of the trees, and you struggle soutt-
wards through the undergrowth, deeper into the
forest. Somewhere in this wilderness lurks the evi
power that you seek: the power that transforms
ordinary beings into shrivelled, faceless, mindless
slaves; the power that summons obsolete monsters
from ages past. You suspect that the evil has been
awakened by the delving of the gold-hungry min-
ers; and you worry that you have missed the correct
mine, that you ‘have already travelled too far.
However, the paths that you are now crossing still
run from east to west, and you assume that there are
still mines to be found to the’ east. You resolve to
continue that way in the morning — but now it is
dusk, and you have found a clearing in which to
sleep. Your eye is caught by a nearby tree that
towers above the rest of the forest; as you watch,
you see lights appear among the branches. When
you look down again, you find yourself surrounded
by slender, green-clothed bowmen. They are Wood
Elves, and they are notching arrows to their bows.
Will you run (turn to 300), or will you talk to them
(turn to 42)?

145
You are still exchanging blows with the Half-Goblin
guard when a group of warriors runs towards the
gate from the centre of the town. They rush to help
their comrade defend himself against the escaped

‘prisoner, and you are overcome by a rain of cuts,

backs and slashes. Your adventure ends here.

146
Buminated by orange rays from the setting sun, the
forest comes alive with evening birdsong and the
bellows, roars and shrieks of strange wild animals.
You cut a way through the creepers and find a dry
bollow in which to camp. You light a fire and relax.
You are very hungry, and need sustenance. You
must eat one meal from your Provisions, or lose 4
points of STAMINA. It is now almost dark; time for
sleep. Will you extinguish your fire, to conceal your
whereabouts (turn to 64)? Or will you stoke it up
with branches to burn all night in order to deter the
forest animals (turn to 257)?

147
When all seven contestants have given their

answers, Gloten opens his fist to reveal 2 Silver
Pieces. You are one of four contestants who gave the
correct answer. You step forward to acknowledge
the cheers of the crowd.

‘The last part of the tournament,’ announces
Gloten, ‘will be a test of skill and swordsmanship.
We have four brave warriors here, so let us organize

two bouts, the winners to go on toa final duel to find
our Champion.’

You are not sure that this is a good plan, and itis
clear that your fellow-contestants are also dis-
pleased. By the end of the tournament all the con-
testants will probably be too badly wounded &
venture into the forest! You notice that Gloten’s.
servants are armed with wooden pickaxe handles.
Will you suggest to Gloten that these would be less
damaging than swords, and therefore should be
used in the tournament (turn to 52)? Or will you
decide that the quickest way to prove yourself as
Champion is to challenge Gloten (turn to 10) or the
Margrave (turn to 235) to a pickaxe-handle duel?

148

You hold the flaming tip of the torch against the wall
of ice; drips of water threaten to extinguish the
spluttering flame, and all the time the footsteps are
approaching. You must melt the ice and escape
through the door before the Slave Warriors arrive?
Grimly, you take the risk of pushing the precious
flame even closer to the dripping ice. Test your Luck.
If you are Lucky, turn to 60; if you are Unlucky, turn
to 192.

49
‘fe and poor old Hirnic worked for Horfak,’ says
the Dwarf. ‘He wasn’t a bad boss, but he drove us
hard: he was never satisfied; he always wanted to
‘kg deeper, he never could get enough gold. When
‘some of the lads dug their way into that cavern and
fund the Portal, Horfak took me and Hirnic down
w take a look. Hirnic went in first, and then me- we
both found ourselves here, in this world full of giant
Keards! Then, after a while, Horfak came through -
but he’d changed. The Portal had done something
w& him. He seemed bigger, stronger; and his face
was horrible. It’s got worse since then, too; he's a
monstrosity. He’s banned all mirrors from his
citadel; I reckon he’d get a real shock if he looked in
ane now. Anyway, since then the Portal’s been
somehow alive; throbbing with evil power. Anyone
who comes through it now goes through the trial
you had; most of them turn into Slave Warriors. I
reckon that Portal’s been there a long time, waiting
for someone as greedy as Horfak, but in the mean-
time letting through the few others .who find it.
There’s a tribe of all sorts of folk here —- humans,
Dwarfs, Elves, Goblins— who reckon their ancestors
came through the Portal. Like I say: I was the last to
get through in one piece — until you!’

You ponder the Dwarf’s words as you head for the
end of the valley — turn to 348.

150
You run across the clear ground that surrounds the
Elves’ towering tree-home and plunge into dense
undergrowth. You turn to look back and are ap-
palled to see that the entire Wood ELf tribe is on the
move. An endless line of ragged, mindless slaves,
some leading bizarre reptilian creatures, emerges
from between the roots of the great tree. The
Queen, at the head of the column, turns and ges-
tures with her fingers; suddenly surrounded by a
misty illumination, the Wood Elves are restored toa
more nomnal appearance. Then the Queen leads the
column north-westwards, towards Kleinkastel. By
the time they have all gone, the forest birds are
announcing the approach of dawn. You are raven-
ous: eat a meal from your Provisions or lose 4 points
from your STAMINA. You set off eastwards, deter-
mined to find the source of the evil that has trans-
formed so many of the forest’s inhabitants. Turn to
221.

151
One of the Scurrellors has a purse containing a Gold
Piece, which you can take. You glance around at the
fprest, and realize with a start that there are two
more Scurrellors perched in the branches, almost
mvisible against the green and brown of thetrees.
Knives drawn, they jump to the ground and move
to attack you from two sides. They chatter and
squeak at you in a language you do not understand.
You will have to fight them, or escape into the
forest. If you decide to run through the trees, turn to
338. If you stand and fight, turn to 215,

152

The boat bumps against the timbers of the jetty, and
wou cast a loop of rope over a bollard as you clamber
am to the planking. Two paths lead from the jetty:
ane follows the riverbank downstream, and the
gather leads to a small house made of timber and
ssone, There is a lingering smell of smoke; some of
the window-frames of the house are blackened, as if
by fire. Then you notice the bodies: some are rag-
ged, skeletal humanoids, others are gaudily dressed
Goblins. A battle has been fought here; as you
watch, the surviving victors come rampaging
through the door of the house. They are three
Goblins, shouting and cheering and waving their
shortswords. They have draped themselves with
foot from the house: brocades and furs, jewellery
and ornaments. With them, bridled, muzzled and
‘on a leash, is a ferocious-looking creature. Standing
om its hind legs, it is taller than the Goblins, and its
flailing tail, horned snout and clawed limbs com-
bine to make the Oviraptor a vision of menace. The
Goblins see you and start to free the beast’s muzzle.
Will you:

Advance towards the house? Turn to 387
Wait on the jetty? Turn to 308
Jump back into the boat, cast

off, and allow the current

to take you downstream? Turn to 104

153
You prise a lump of stone from the floor and begin
use it to pound the chains that link the iron ba
round Dirlin’s ankles. Dirlin protests that the noi
will bring the gaoler; you point out that, if the ga
comes, you will be able to fight him for the kevs
Sure enough, the gaoler, a Dwarven Slave Warriae
appears in the doorway, sees you, and turns to see
assistance. You launch yourself at him.

DWARVEN SLAVE
WARRIOR ., SKILL 6

If you defeat him, you find his keys hanging at his
belt. You free Dirlin, and the giant bear-man leads
the way to Horfak’s chamber. When you reach if,
you find the door guarded by two Slave Warriors
Dirlin tackles the one that is a cross between an Om
and a Cave Giant, while you advance on the one
who was once in the Margrave’s elite infantre
regiment.

SLAVE WARRIOR
GUARD

If you win your fight, you turn to see that Dirlin has
drawn his opponent away, along the corridor, and
is still involved in a furious battle. You turn back to
the door, take a deep breath, and prepare to faas
Horfak. You push open the door, and walk
through. Turn to 395.

STAMINA

SKILL 9 STAMINA 12

154
The soldier looks at the barrels, peering inside some
and kicking the ends of others. He kicks the one in
which you are hiding, and it disintegrates under
the impact of his armoured boot to reveal you,
crouching in the midst of the wreckage. ‘Sergeant!’
bellows the soldier. ‘Captured a prisoner!’ Three
more soldiers run into the tavern, and you are
escorted at sword-point out into the street. Turn to

255:

155
You set off southwards, trying not to deviate from
vour chosen course. The forest seems empty of
living things, and your progress is impeded only by
the woodland itself. You have to cut your way
through brambles, scramble up and down nidges,
and wade across rushing streams.

Finally you come to a stream that you cannot cross
on foot. You will have to follow its course until you
come to a fording-place. Will you walk upstream, in
a north-easterly direction (turn to 326)? Or do you
prefer to go downstream, towards the south-west
{turn to 57)?

156
Out of sight of the Slave Warrior guards, the gully

widens as it twists and turns downhill. Soon you are ~

able to walk upright between its overhanging
banks, and you are congratulating yourself on
finding such an easy entrance to the Warlord’s
domain when you meet the gully’s inhabitant — a
Giant Centipede. It is as long as you are tall, with
savagely sharp mandibles at its front end and a
scorpion-like sting rising above its back. It waits,
twitching its feelers. You are reluctant to attack it,
because you fear that the patrolling Slave Warriors
might hear the noise. Just beyond the Giant Cen-
tipede, the gully opens out and the jungle begins.
You seem to have only two choices: to return up the
gully to the top of the ridge and try to impersonate a
Slave Warrior (turn to 247); or to attempt to jump
over the Giant Centipede and run into the jungle
(turn to 75)?

157
The bandit leader hurls the swords into the air. They

land with a clash of steel, and you and the bandits
crowd round them to see how they have landed.
‘The unmarked blades are showing,’ announces the
bandit leader. ‘This sack, and everything in it, is
yours, My thanks for an entertaining encounter.
Now that we've lost this wager, it seems to me thatit
would have been more profitable and just as much
fun to have killed you and taken everything you
own. But that would not be honourable now.
Farewell!’

He mounts his pony, drops the sack at your feet and
leads his men away. You empty the contents of the
sack into your backpack (make any necessary alter-
ations on your Adventure Sheet) and continue on
your way. Turn to 27.

158

You take the small sack of powder from your back-
pack and approach the Portal. You struggle against
the evil emanation that pulses from the ancient
stones, but you succeed in placing the Igneolite at
the base of one of the two upright megaliths. You
are torn between a desire to destroy the Portal as
quickly as possible and a curiosity to know what lies
beyond it. Will you thrust a flame into the top of the
sack now (turn to 332), or will you step into the
shadow of the Portal (turn to 289)?

159

Everything goes wrong. The merchant is so large
that he is scarcely shaken by your shoulder-charge.
When you make a grab for his purse, he grasps your
wrist ~- and then starts yelling for help. Within
seconds you are surrounded by indignant towns-
folk, and within an hour you are chained to the wall
of a damp, dark cell in the dungeons beneath the
Margrave’s castle. If anyone bothers to remember
that you’re there, you will eventually be dragged
oul, tried in the Margrave’s court, and executed.

160

With some reluctance, you tug at the filthy rags
covering the Slave Warrior’s corpse. Then you hear
a ferocious squawk and a stampede of footsteps,
and before you can move the Struthiomimus
crashes into you. As you attempt to pick yourself
up, the creature kicks you and snaps at you with its
beak to force you away from the body of its master.
You retreat from the clearing, rubbing your bruises.
Deduct 3 points from your STAMINA. You continue
eastward along the path. Turn to 264.

161

You crouch behind a boulder and watch as the tide
of battle ebbs and flows. The Goblins make a heroic
stand round the circumference of their hilltop settle-
ment, but finally they are all slain, and the surviving
Troglodytes disappear through the small doorways
into the interior of the warren. Silence returns. On
top of the mound, inside which the Troglodytes are
presumably rampaging and looting, the grotesque
statue sparkles. Attracted by the thought of glitter-
ing gemstones, you continue along the path and up
the hillside towards the Goblins’ mound. You:are
approaching one of the rough doorways that lead
into the darkness of the Goblins’ warren. Will you
enter it (turn to 298), or will you pass it by and climb
across the top of the mound towards the base of the
statue (turn to 103)?

162

The Slave Warrior fails to notice you, and leaves the
tent. The sounds of battle fade, and soon the only
noises you can hear are the groans of wounded
camp-dwellers and the unnervingly regular foot-
steps of the victors. Eventually even these sounds
cease, By this time you have managed to extricate
one hand from the ropes that bind you, and you
unsheathe your sword and cut yourself free.

The camp is a scene of devastation and butchery.
The Slave Warriors have not left any survivors, but
the camp-dwellers fought to the last man, woman
and child, and many of the attackers are lying dead
alongside their victims.

if you want to, you can undertake the unpleasant
task of searching the ruined camp and the corpses ~
turn to 254. Alternatively, you can leave the camp
and wander into the green depths of the forest -
turn to 2.

163

You pull your sword from its scabbard and advance.
The giant ape roars and charges towards you,
Drawn up to its full height, with its arms extended
the same distance again above its head, and the
black cloak flying behind it as it lopes towards you,
the creature looks like a demon from the lowest
depths.

CARNIVOROUS
APE SKILL g STAMINA 13

if you manage to survive this encounter, turn to 18.

164
Kran Jooks strong and fit. After a few feints and
parnes it is clear that he is also a skilled swordsman.
This will be a difficult engagement.

KRAN SKILL 9 STAMINA 14

If you manage to stay alive, you will eventually
reduce Kran’s STAMINA to 2 points or less. When
this happens, Kran staggers and falls to his knees on
the grass. His wounds are severe, and he is barely
able to lift his sword. Will you show mercy? If you
hold your sword-point to Kran’s throat, and ask the
bandit leader to acknowledge his champion’s de-
feat, turn to 261. If you finish Kran off with one final
sword-thrust, turn to 368.

165

As you approach the grove of trees, you hear
sounds of fighting. You advance under the fronds of
leaves, and witness a mélée in progress. Near the
smoking embers of their,camp-fire, a man and a
Dwarf are standing with their backs against the
largest tree in the grove, defending themselves
against the attacks of three Slave Warriors. None of
the combatants notices you, but you are seen by a
creature that, to judge by its studded collar and
leash, belongs to the Slave Warriors. It steps from
behind a tree and moves towards you ~ it is a
Noasaurus, a man-high carnivore standing on two
powerful legs, with claws on its two front limbs. If
you decide to retreat from the copse and walk
towards the end of the valley, turn to 348; if you
decide to stay where you are, turn to 224.

166
As you start to untie the mooring-ropes, you hear
footsteps approaching. You look up to see a Dwarf
marching down the track from the hut. He is hefting
a vicious-looking boat-hook. in front of him flutters
a strange bird; you recognize it as a Koailit, a small
white parrot-like bird with a sharp beak and extra-
ordinarily long tail-feathers which it can use to cling
to branches. The Dwarf is very angry. ‘I don’t care if
you're a bandit, or one of the Margrave’s bunch, or
even one of them shrivel-faced horrors,’ he shouts,
‘you're not taking my boats without a fight! Polly -

go for his legs!’ The Koailit squawks and dives at
you as you pull your sword out to defend yourself.

KOAILIT SKILL 6

After two rounds of combat, turn to 4o.

STAMINA 3

167
Every part of your body burns with agonizing pain.
As you feel the very bones shifting under your
writhing skin, you scream, and scream, and scream
— and drop into merciful unconsciousness. Turn

to 37.

168

You run between two wooden huts. The safety of
the forest is only a few paces away when two
soldiers step round a corner ahead of you. You crash
into them and, before you can pick yourself off the
ground, your pursuers catch up with you and en-
tangle you in ropes and chains. You will be taken to
the Margrave’s dungeons in Kleinkastel and,
although eventually you will convince your captors
that you are innocent of any crime, this adventure
ends here.

169

Gartax cannot find words to express his gratitude to
you, and he is ashamed that he has no treasure with
which to reward you. You assure him that his
thanks are reward enough — but you also suggest
that he might give you some Provisions to sustain
you on your travels. He readily agrees, and soon
your backpack is bulging with bread, cheeses and
salted meats — enough for five meals. Note these on
your Adventure Sheet.

All the camp-dwellers gather to wave goodbye as
you stride off into the depths of the forest. Tur to2.

170
You stand over the corpse of the Warlord. The
palace is silent. You wander through a door and find
yourself facing two Slave Warriors. Their move-
ments seem disjointed and even slower than usual -
but they are still controlled by the Portal, and they
lurch into the attack when they see you. You retreat,
and find another exit from Horfak’s chamber, and
eventually you leave the palace. The People of this
strange prehistoric land, led by their Queen, Anxis,
are fighting back against the enfeebled Slave War-
riors. As you hurry towards the Portal, you pass
several bands of warriors, and you tell each the
news of Horfak’s death. They all hail you as a hero;
but you know that Horfak’s great Slave Warrior
armies are in Khul, and that by killing Horfak you
have defeated only the lesser part of the evil part-
nership. You make for the cave that contains the
Portal. Turn to 369.

471
Making no sound upon the bare rock, you step
towards the silhouetted figure. Its black cloak flaps
in the wind, but the figure itself sits quite still. You
begin to wonder if it is dead, or senseless. Deciding
to take no chances, however, you plunge your
sword into its back. Roaring, the figure erupts into
life, spinning around to face its attacker. You stare
into the strangely intelligent face of a massive Car-
nivorous Ape. It is wounded but, maddened with

pain, it will fight to the death.
CARNIVOROUS
APE SKILL 9 STAMINA 10

Hf you win, turn to 18.

472
Leaving the path, you circle the hill until you are
facing the back of the huge hilltop idol. Every inch of
its surface sparkles, and you are sure that it must
be encrusted with gems; but when you reach the
Goblins’ mound you are at last able to see that the
statue’s scintillation is caused by nothing more
valuable than reflective glass — thousands of small
mirrors have been embedded in its surface. In your
disappointment your attention wanders, and you
fail to notice that a wounded Troglodyte has been
inching towards you. Its spiked club rakes the back
of your legs, causing you to lose 2 points from your
STAMINA, thenitlurches upright. You must fightit.

TROGLODYTE SKILL 6

STAMINA 3

If you win, you turn from your fight to find that the
noise has attracted the two Goblins who were at the
foot of the statue. They march you at sword-point
back to their vantage point; before they can question
you, however, a wild howling fills the air: the
surviving Troglodytes have regrouped and are
attacking again. Turn to 203.

173
No matter how hard you pull, you cannot lift both of
the arm-rests at the same time. You decide to try
them one at a tinre ~ but before you can do so, you
hear footsteps approaching. You jump down from
the chair and practise your innocent look. Tum
to 211.

174
The last weapon parts your hair as it thuds into the
wood above your head. The Ordeal is over, and you
have not moved a muscle throughout it. The Sha-
man gives a signal and the crowd erupts into cheer-
ing. The warriors come to retrieve their weapons
and shake your hand. You are carried on their
shoulders to the seat of honour next to the Shaman,
and the townsfolk bring out plates and pots; every-
one joins in the feast to celebrate your success.
Restore 1 point of LUCK if you need to, as well as up
to 4 points of STAMINA. Witta translates the Sha-
man’s after-dinner speech: tomorrow, as is usual
when the People accept a new warrior, there will be
a ceremonial dinosaur-hunt in which you are to
strike the death-blow. After that, the warriors of the

ple will march against the hated Warlord Hor-

_ who is vulnerable at last, having sent most of

Slave Warriors back to Khul through the Sacred
Save. At midnight the Shaman administers the cere-
“monial — and rather painful — tattoo: the Sign of the
Seear on your forehead shows that you are now a
wertior of the People. At last Witta shows you to
your new home, which is a stone hut like your
earlier prison — but now you have the door-key! Will
‘pou sleep, and wait for the dinosaur-hunt (turn to
350); or will you try to slip away from the town
ender cover of night (turn to 291)?

175

The figure remains motionless, and then dis-
appears! Equally suddenly, it reappears — and this
Sme it is definitely not a statue. The little old man
smiles, walks towards you and speaks. ‘A wizard? I
heve some knowledge of ancient things and un-
wsual practices. Some people call it wizardry. What
of you? You are clearly a warrior. Not a Goblin, buta
buman —and not from the south, either. Few of any
ether kind ever come here. You people from the
g@orth have your own gods, your own wise men —
what do you want with me? What could bring you
here?’

E you have a message from Gartax for the wizard,
you may give it now, and tell Gartax’s story; or, if
you have a letter for the wizard from the King of the
Forest Goblins, you may give the wizard the scroll.
¥ you do either of these things, turn to 353. Other-

wise, all you are able to do is tell the wizard about
plague of unusual creatures roaming the forest,
depopulated settlements, and rumours of stre ed into Slave Warriors, so I'll give you a clue. If
warrior bands terrorizing the whole area from ¢ : enbers were letters, my number would be in
Cloudhigh Mountains to the western edge of £ Teft’’, but not in “Little Soft Felt Elf’. Is that any

forest. Turn to 234. Sp? I’m afraid you only get one chance to say the
St number.’

= not allowed to say any numbers at all, just in
. But life’s been very dull since all the Elves were

176
Drawing your sword, you run across the glade :
step between the giant bird and the exhausted

fyou want to try to unlock the door this way, make
mote of this paragraph number so that you can

You stare into the beast’s cold eyes and raise ye urn here if your guess is wrong. Then turn to the
sword to strike-— and then you feel a knife-pos mber that you think will unlock the door. If you

against your spine. Behind you, the man chuckle ss wrong, return to this paragraph.

‘Our little ruse worked, Agrid. This warrior she have to find another way out of this prison.
true nobility in intervening to protect the weak a *h some difficulty, you pull wp a couple of floor-
helpless — I think I acted the victim’s part ves ards. You peer down into the darkness, then
convincingly. Now, warrior — put up your swe exl as you realize that you can see branches
Surrender!’ ving in the breeze far below you. This hut is in
highest limbs of the Elves’ tree-home, You must
to climb down. A length of rope would be very
ul — if you have one, turn to g1. If you do not
e any rope turn to 309.

Will you sheathe your sword and surrender (turn
292); or will you swing round and attack the n
(turn to 204)?

177

You approach the door, and a voice says: ‘De
touch!’ You step back as the voice continues: *
be alarmed. I’m not actually a talking door; I’m
Elven enchantment and I just sort of hover row
the door and keep it locked from the inside. I'll ope constructed to take this kind of treatment: the
it if you say the right number.’ You ask what ¢ 4 shatters into fragments against a huge rock.
right number is. ‘I can’t tell you that!’ says the voice” s are thrown into the air, along with the wreck-
of the boat. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn
244. If you are Unlucky, turn to 43.

178
little skiff crashes down the rock-strewn stair-
s of the rapids, its kee] striking boulders with
ber-shattering, bone-juddering force. A skiff is

- i}
Hf 179
i V You sit by the pool, debating whether you can use
i) mottled, sun-baked boulders as stepping-stones
® the far bank. Making your mind up, you put your
efi , VA Wid a Seots in your backpack and dip your toes into the
ae bie! ui ity ne seol water. It is very refreshing; you shuffle closer to
Hi th i m s I MN the edge and submerge your feet and shins. And
“i ae i A then, as the boulder nearest to you rises out of the
ij — ie, SOE Water, your ankles are encircled by a tightening loop
i ti ef rubbery muscle. The ‘boulder’ is the tip of the
shell of a Giant Watersnail, a foul creature that
resembles its land-living counterpart on Khul but is
more dangerous because of the powerful tentacles
that surround its mouth. It is trying to pull you into
the depths of the pool, towards its beak-like mouth,
and you cannot extricate your feet from its grasp.
You must fight it. Reduce your SKILL by 2 points,
because your legs are trapped; reduce your SKILL by
a further point at the end of each Attack Round as
you are dragged further into the water.

GIANT WATERSNAIL sKILL6 STAMINA 10

If you defeat it, turn to 281.

180

Fiat-bottomed boats are not designed to cope with
rough conditions, and the death-throes of an Elas-
mosaunmus are the equivalent of a storm at sea. Test
weur Luck. If you are Lucky, turn fo 71. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 13.

181

It is impossible to find a bed for the night. The
town’s inns barely have room for all the paying

guests! As darkness falls, you are reduced to search-
ing for sheltered doorways in which to huddle. You
find a clean, dry corner next to a buttress of the town
wall; you lie down; despite the discomfort, you
doze.

You wake with a jolt. It’s still dark. Someone is
prodding you with a stick. You make out twe
strange shapes: a small humanoid and a two-legged
anima! that resembles a giant featherless bird. The
humanoid - he is a Dwarf — speaks. ‘Give me
everything! Everything you’ve got! Give me that
backpack! Hurry it up! Or else Gluda here will rip
you to shreds!’

If you decide to surrender your backpack to this
Dwarf thief, turn to 299. If you want to make a fight
of it, turn to 342.

182
‘I should have guessed it!’ sighs Lignia. ‘Another
human brings an accursed metal blade to ravage the
‘trees of my woodland. Approach no closer!’ She
degins to whisper and trace a pattern in the air. You
are sure she is casting a spell against you. Will you:

Interrupt her, protesting that
you mean no harm to the forest? Turn to 236

Attack her? Turn to 16
Wait to see the result of her
incantation? Turn to 381

183
In increasing darkness you wander round the room,
feeling for secret doors or hanging ropes. You find
absolutely nothing. A ray of moonlight creeps in
through a window but provides no help in your
search. Then, as you are about to give up, you notice
a glimmering shape where the moon’s glow crosses
the centre of the room. And, as you watch, a ladder
takes shape, glittering and insubstantial, stretching
from floor to ceiling. You touch it with your sword —
and your sword passes through it as if through
empty air. This ghostly ladder is clearly the handi-
work of a wizard - or an illusionist. If you try to
climb it, turn to 290. If you think it would be wiser to
go back downstairs and get some sleep, turn to 109.

aT
Zé ‘ ’ ‘] a,

184

You stand before the stone wall and intone your

password. If you say ‘Apfis nev!’ turn to 256; if you

say anything else, turn to 386.

185

Gartax shakes his head, and his shoulders slump.
‘Our only hope is to get out of the forest before the
Slave Warriors corner us. I don’t expect any help.
The Margrave’s soldiers are too busy extorting taxes
out of honest folk; the big mine-owners are safe in
Kleinkastel and haven’ta clue what's going on here.
If you want to do something useful, find the Wizard
of Lake Mlubz - that’s the Goblins’ name for the
inland sea that’s at the far southern end of the
forest. It’s said this Wizard has been there for cen-
turies, longer even than the Goblins themselves. If
anyone knows what's behind these evil events, it's
the Wizard. I’ve met him, just the once; if you tell
him what I’ve told you, and ask for help in my
name, I’m sure he'll do everything he can. The
lake’s not hard to find: just go south until you come
to a stream that’s too wide and deep to jump or
wade across, and then follow it down to the place
where it flows into the lake.

‘And now there’s no more time for talk! We've
arrived!’ Turn to 310. _ a

186

You plunge your arm into the tank once more and
sour hand closes round a small gold-specked rock.
You tug it, but it will not move. You try to twistit, to
move it from side to side —all to no avail. And when
you finally give up, you discover that you cannot
@pen your fist. Your fingers will not move; in fact
your entire arm is set solidly in the liquid. No matter
how hard you strain your muscles, you cannot
gemove your arm from the tank. Azudraz has cer-
tainly invented an effective method for storing gold;
mo one will ever be able to steal it from this tank! If
you have the Sword of Gravalan, turn to 210. If not,
tarn to 352.

187
Test your Luck. Lf you are Lucky, the Goblins watch
m silence as you set off down the southward path
@ongside the river. Turn to 59.

EH you are Unlucky, the Goblins chase after you
when you turn away from them to walk towards the
path. One of them slashes your arm with his blade:
deduct 2 points from your STAMINA. You whirl
round to face your attackers. Turn to 282.

188
Roll one die five times. If the total is higher than
your current STAMINA score, tum to 440; if the total
= the same or lower, turn to 105.

189

In the midst of the deadly interplay of sword, claws
and beak, you become aware of a remarkable noise—
a low, booming, repetitive bellow that distracts you.
from your fight. The Struthiomimus hears it toog
with a squawk, it tums away from you and trots
back to the man standing at the edge of the clearing.
You see from the man’s grey pallor, with his bony
limbs poking through tattered clothes and his ex-
pressionless, pinched face, that he is one of the
enslaved humanoids that have been terrorizing this
area. It is he who is producing the weird noise,
attracting the creature to him. He places a rope
round its long neck and then draws a notched.
scimitar. He advances towards you.

ff you have a Ring of Zombie Warding, turn to 349.
if not, turn to 88.

190
You are one of a dozen warriors who push through
the crowd and climb on to the platform to volunteer
for the tournament. Gloten shoos away all the dignt
taries except the Margrave. ‘Attendants!’ he calls.
‘Bring ropes and blindfolds and the animai boxes.
Bind each contestant’s ankles, and blindfold each
face -- but leave the sword-arm free. Place a box in
front of each contestant.’ Turning to you and the
other volunteers, he goes on: “This first test is of
courage, my brave warriors. Have you the courage
to remain quite still once the animal is released from
its box? And at what point does courage become

sheer foolhardiness? Let us see who can remain
motionless the longest. Release the animals!’

You cannot see. You cannot move your feet. You
can hear a slithering, rasping noise, and then some-
thing touches your leg. You control the urge to
strike out. Something long and muscular winds
itself round your waist. You hear shrieks of loathing
and the sounds of fighting as other contestants leap
to defend themselves. Feelers with rubbery suckers
probe your clothing and adhere to your skin. A
heavy body bumps against your legs as the creature
cimbs higher. A tentacle reaches your throat, and
winds round your neck. You remember Gloten’s
words about foolhardiness. The creature is climbing
up the front of your body. Is it time to act? If you
force yourself to remain still, turn to 285. If you tear
off the blindfold and grab your sword, turn to 130.

191
If the answer that you gave was: ‘You are the
wizard’s shadow,’ turn to 48. If you gave any other
answer, turn to 23.

192
With a hiss, your flame dies. You cry out in despair.
Frantically, you hold the glowing tip of the torch
between your cupped hands, and blow on the red
glow, again and again, trying to breathe life into the
fire. A little smoke rises; or is it just steam? No — it is
smoke: you have rekindled a tiny flame which

grows stronger as you watch. Now you can cof
tinue to melt the wail of ice — but you realize that ne
longer is there any noise or sound of footsteps. The
Slave Warriors — three of them — have already er
tered the room. One of them is standing behind ©
you. Turn to 328.

before any one fight, and you will find that your
opponent reduces your STAMINA by only 1 point
each time he wounds you. Add 1 point to your LUCK
for this fortunate find. The sound of marching men
BS closer. Turn to 363.

Pee,
As the guard slumps to the paving-stones and the
shouts of other warriors echo more loudly through
the streets, you sprint through the gate and down
the hillside. Plunging into the darkness of the
jungle, you know you are safe from pursuit, but you
keep running.

193
The scarecrow-like warrior notices you, and fixes
you with his blank, unblinking eyes. You struggle
helplessly. He leans over you and appears to pon
der for a moment before skewering his sword into
your chest. Silently, he watches you die.

You emerge on to a broad plain. In the distance
ahead of you, there is a ridge of low hills, which you
make for. After some time, you come to a wide,
well-used track which you think is the main road
leading to the Portal. You cross it hurriedly, not
wishing to meet a squad of Slave Warriors, and
climb the ridge. You look down into a grassy valley,
dotted with clumps of trees, that widens towards
your left and is narrower between high ridges on
your right. You walk down into the valley, and find
a path that runs along it. You assume that travelling
leftwards will take you back towards the Portal, so
you tum nght, towards the narrow end of the
valley. Turn to 348.

194
You insert your hand into the hole, grab as much af
the pile as you can, then, just as youare pulling your
hand out of the tree, something inside the trunk
grasps your forearm between sharp teeth. You
shake your hand free and yank it out of the hole
The creature’s teeth have drawn blood, but the
wound is not serious. Deduct 1 point from your
STAMINA. To your chagrin, you find that the shing
article in the heap of leaves is a small hand-mirror,
which you can put in your backpack if you want ta.
You are about to throw the twigs and leaves into the
undergrowth when you notice that among themisa
sprig of Swords-ease, a very rare medicinal her®
that, if swallowed immediately before a battle, em
ables. the body to repair wounds almost as soon a
they are inflicted. You may chew this sprig one,

196

Fast as you feel that your aching muscles cannot
bear your weight any longer, your fingers touch
grass instead of rock. You have reached the top of
the cliff. You lever your body upwards and collapse
on a patch of greensward, a natural clearing in the
forest that elsewhere grows to the cliff’s edge. A
path crosses the clearing. You hear movement in the
undergrowth, but you cannot conceal yourself. You
keep very still. A Goblin, frail and limping, lurches
out of the forest and along the path. Only a few
paces behind him is the biggest Giant Spider you
nave ever seen, clicking its mandibles and rattling
&s eight furry legs. On this clear terrain, the Spider
will catch up with the Goblin within seconds. if you
seep still, the Spider will pounce on the Goblin, bite
him, enfold him in sticky strands of web, and drag
him into the forest. You can then continue your
journey downstream along the clifftop path. If you
want to do this, turn to 399. If you would rather
draw your sword and attack the Spider, turn to 67.

197
On the other side of the bridge, the other two

contestants are trying to cut each other's rope. Roll
two dice for each of them, and add the results to
their SKILL scores (given below} to determine which
one falls into the moat.

OSTBAR: sKILL 9 TRELLA: sxitt 8

Now only two of you remain dangling beneath the
bridge. Roll dice again to determine an Attack
Strength for yourself and the winner of the above
combat. If your Attack Strength is the lower, your
rope is cut and you splash into the moat. Gloten
spares a word for you before going to congratulate
the winner — turn to 33g. If you cut your opponent's
rope, you are the winner; you are hauled up on fo
the bridge and cheered by all the townsfolk — turn to

259.

198

By the time the Goblins return, the warm sun and
the murmur of the river have lulled you to sleep.
This is unfortunate, as the Goblins have brought
with them most of the rest of their tribe. They plan
to tell their King that they fought a desperate battie
with you in order to rescue his letter. And, to make
their story convincing, they intend to take your
dead body to the King’s court. Findine you dozing
on the jetty makes their task very easy.

199
‘The Goblin war-chief made his base on the other
side of the Portal, in the forgotten land. He thought
he was safe there, believing that anyone from this
world who passed beneath the Portal would be
enslaved or, if his will was too strong for slavery,
would be transformed into an animal or, in the last
resort, simply exterminated by the power of the
Portal. But the Goblins fourid a hero: one of their
own race who was brave and strong and who, by
chance, found the means to pass safely through the

Portal. He took with him two animals — and many
Saming torches, for the Portal was deep under-
ground. And it seems that, after the Portal failed to
enslave him, it could not change him into an animal
wiiher, because he had two other creatures with
iim, and- this dissipated the Portal’s power; nor
enuld it destroy him, because he was surrounded by
keht. Once through the Portal, the hero found the
war-chief and slew him; returning through the Por-
tal, he ordered that it be sealed below ground for
ever. | would guess that the recent mine-workings
kave undone the concealment that the Goblins
undertook all those thousands of years ago.
Another great evil-doer has found the Portal;
another warlord has arisen. But at least we have
some clues about how to find and destroy him. Now
we must depart!’

Furn to 102.

200

You examine the bodies of the Slave Warriors.
wear no armour or uniform, and their clothes
filthy and tattered. Their skin is pale, and their f

are almost blank. Some of them have actually lost
their facial features, having a short lipless slit im
stead of a mouth, two small holes instead of a nose,
and deeply set eyes without brows or lids or lashes.
Each of them wears a stone talisman on a leather
thong round the neck; the stone is carved witla
unintelligible hieroglyphics. You find one of these
strange soldiers still alive, although dying. You
notice that his talisman is shrouded in black
shadow. You remove it from round his neck; #
seems almost a living thing. You can place it in your
backpack (remember to note it on your Adventuse
Sheet) and then either set off on your travels im
mediately, striding into the depths of the forest
(turn to 2), or return to Gartax’s camp (turn to 166%
If you want to hang the talisman round your ows
neck, turn to 384.

201

Taking a torch from the wall of the tunnel, you
descend into darkness. The short flight of stairs
leads you down into a wide passage. You pass dark
openings which, on investigation, you find are
mainly disused storerooms. You seem to be in the
cellars of the palace. You are sure you are nearing
the area beneath the centre of the building — but the
passage ends at a small wooden door. Cautiously,
you draw the bolts; you depress the latch, and pull
open the door-—and the flickering light of your torch
reveals a room of icicles. Your breath steams as you
enter a polar scene: layers of ice cloak all surfaces,
columns and sheets of ice connect floor and ceiling.
You begin to shiver uncontrollably - reduce your
SKILL by 2 points until you leave this room. Creep-
ing from behind a wall of ice comes the cause of the
cold: a Glaciator, a creature which maintains its own
body’s temperature by extracting warmth from the
air. If it stays in one place, its surroundings soon
freeze. This one needs a new source of warmth —
your body will suffice. It rears up on four back limbs
and advances, its other limbs outstretched to
smother you against its wide, flat underside.

GLACIATOR

If you win, turn to 242.

SKILL 6 STAMINA 8

202
With your help, the Dwarf overcomes his opponent
with ease. Meanwhile, the man and the other Slave
Warrior both collapse and die from their wounds.
You help the Dwarf to bury the body of his comrade,
and the two of you sit together by the smoking fire
and share in silence the meal that the Dwarf had
been preparing when the Slave Warriors attacked.
Restore up to 4 points of STAMINA if you need to.
Finally, the Dwarf asks you who you are. You
explain that you have come from Khul to find and
finish off the Warlord who, through the power of
the Portal, controls the armies of Slave Warriors.
You describe how you survived the journey
through the Portal.

‘I have to admit,’ grunts the Dwarf, ‘that I’m im-
pressed, Apart from Slave Warriors and animals,
you're the first person to come through that
accursed gateway since Horfak ~ and he’s the War-
lord you’re looking for. Go to the end of the valley
and take the right-hand path; that'll lead you to his
citadel. He’s sent most of his foul troops back
through the Portal to ravage Khul; but you'd still
best look out for guards.’

You thank the Dwarf for his information. Will you
now go towards the end of the valley (turn to 348);
or will you ask how the mine-owner Horfak came to
be the Warlord of the Portal, and how the Dwarf
came to this lost world (turn to 149)?

203

Ten Troglodytes have survived the earlier battleand
are now converging on the hilltop statue to finish off
the two remaining Goblins — and you. You stand
alongside the Goblins in the shadow of their god’s
idol. Its staring eyes and its eight outstretched arms
do not deter the Troglodytes, although they are
troubled by the flashes of light reflected from the
mirrors all over its body. You are certain, however,
that this alone will not be enough to even the odds.
It looks as though this could be your last fight —
unless you have Gloten’s Dwarven hunting-horn. If
you have it, turn to 120. If not, turn to 392.

204
The man backs away from you and yells for help.
From between the trees all round the clearing a mob
of men and women converges on you. There are
about a dozen of them, armed with knives; axes and
Staves, and you cannot defend yourself against all of
them. Your adventure ends here.

205

The coracle might as well be anchored to the shore;
# will not move. You become very exasperated —
and then you glimpse a movement. Appearing from
the other side of the island of rusty weapons is
another coracle. As it drifts towards you, you see
that it contains a wounded warrior - an EIf.
Although barely able to stand, he flourishes a long
slim blade and, as his boat bumps into yours, he
attacks. He is an experienced swordsman, but as his
STAMINA Is very low you expect an easy victory. It
is not to be. When he strikes you, you are wounded
as normal; but when you land a blow on him, you
are horrified to find that the wound appears on your
body. What is more, the longer you fight, the less
wounded your opponent seems to become. You
cannot win; and eventually you are lying, wounded
ima dozen places, waiting for the death-blow to fall.
Instead, the Elf, now completely recovered, speaks.
T apologize, human. I, too, failed to surrender my
sword, and I fought the wounded warrior who
attacked me then. He left me as you found me, but
now I can escape at last.’ His coracle drifts away;
vours stays by the island.

Your fate is to remain, weak and wounded, until the
wizard has another visitor who refuses to disarm.
You will escape eventually, but this adventure ends
here. "

206
You scramble up the boulder-strewn hillside, hear-

ing the beat of wings as the Korven take to the amr

behind you. You find a crack between two enor-
mous rocks and turn to fight the Korven one ata
time.

KORVEN SKILL 5

If you win, you find that the other Korven are
reluctant to continue to attack you in such a com
fined space. You have time to look around, and you
discover that the gap between the boulders is the
end ofa dry stream-bed. You can crawl through the
gap into'a narrow gully—almosta tunnel -— that leads
uphill. As you do this, two of the surviving Korven
strike. They land on your back, lacerating your flesh
and sawing through the straps of your backpack.
You force your way into the gully and safety,
however, you have lost 3 points from your
STAMINA — and your backpack, along with every
thing in it, has gone. If you are still alive, you have
no choice but to follow the course of the gully. Whes
it becomes too narrow, you emerge to find that the
Korven have flown away. Turn to 68.

STAMINA 5

207

Your other limbs are all engulfed in glutinous slime,
but your sword-arm is free. You extract your sword
from its scabbard and begin to jab clumsily at the
black tongue. Because it is almost impossible to
move, you must deduct from your skKILL score the
number that you rolled on the die, to take account of

e difficulty of your position. As you strike with
your sword, the Stegocephalian responds by trying
* roil up its tongue — with you inside. Turn to 94.

208

ou step warily towards the bear, and put your
er to your lips. The bear understands, and
guictens, It pushes a covered paw against the muz-
Se, repeatedly: it wants you to take the muzzle off.
‘ith some reluctance, you undo the buckles that
re it; and the bear does not bite you — it speaks!
"A thousand thanks, friend, whoever you are. I am
Dirlin, and I was once a man, and the partner of

nother, named Horfak, who is now the ruler of this
place. He discovered that foul gateway into this
range world. When he entered the Portal, it came
alive with awful power. Horfak insisted that all our

miners must go through it; those who objected were

ragged through, screaming, by others who had
already been changed into Slave Warriors. I was
pushed under, but my will was too strong; so the
Portal changed my body instead, and Horfak im-
prisoned me here. From time to time he visits me
and gloats. Now I want my revenge; but these
chains on my ankles are locked, and only the gaoler
leas the key. Find him, take the keys, and free me, I
mplore you!’

You explain briefly that your mission is also against
Horfak and the Portal. Will you leave Dirlin and
Wook for the gaoler (turn to 295); or will you stay with
am and try to break the chains with chunks of stone

‘@um to 153)?
209

You 1 run about as best you can in the darkness,
scrambling over piles of boxes, kicking over —
and upending sacks of rotting vegetables. The
Armoured Mole is confused: it can neither hear you
nor smell you because of all the other noises and
odours that are filling the cellar. You reach the
ladder and climb up it, slamming the trapdoor
behind you. You are back in the empty first-floor
room of the tower. Turn to 359.

210

With your one free hand you manage to pull the
Sword of Gravalan from its scabbard and twist the
hilt. You plunge the rapidly heating blade into
the tank. It soon seems that this desperate act has
made things worse: the sword becomes as fixed as
your arm, and it is heating the liquid to an ur
bearable temperature. You watch helplessly as
steam rises from the bubbling surface. Your arms
being boiled — but at last you can move it a little; inda
by inch, you pull it and the sword out of the liquid.
You sit against the wall and inspect your red, blie
tered arm — deduct 3 points from your STAMINA. &
you have survived this ordeal, you force yourself te
carry on; you return to the other room to help
Azudraz. Turn to 316.

211

Sloten enters the room. ‘I’m sorry I’ve kept you
siting, my perspicacious friend. How did you
*t my dwarfish origins, eh? I’ve been looking
or a special item that I'd like you to have, but I can’t
Sad it anywhere. Only one place to look now: the
mongbox. Watch this!’ He clambers on to the seat of
te chair, and proceeds to pull at the arm-rests,
ting first one and then the other with some dif-
lty. The front of the chair’s plinth, which had
woked like a solid block of wood, swings open to
meveal a cavity. In it is a wooden box.

pon Gloten has the box open and is rummaging
through a dazzling heap of coins and gems. He pulls
t — a battered old hunting-horn. ‘Don’t look so
Ssappointed,’ Gloten says. ‘This will be of more use
® you than a sackful of jewels. It's a family heir-
om, obviously of dwarfish workmanship. Take it;

eund it when you are in dire peril. The eagles
wore an oath to my forefathers that they would aid
amyone who sounds this horn. They will come only
nce. Now - let us prepare for your mission.’

Turn to 259.

212
You manage to hide only just in time. As you crouch
eside the barrel, you hear footsteps crossing the
Severn floor. A voice shouts: ‘Nothing much left in
», sergeant! Not even a drop of ale.’ The reply
fom the street is: ‘Have a good look round, trooper,

all the same. You never know what or who + t of the Slave Warrior army. Will you help them
might find.’ It is clear that a troop of the Margra rm to 344); or will you ignore everything that
soldiers are searching the village. The tr tracts you from confronting the Warlord himself
approaches the barrels behind the bar. Test 4 to 70}?

Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 38. If you are
lucky, turn to 154.

214
min and again the punt jars as its flat bottom
mapes across the rocks, but somehow its timbers
d together as the foaming river bumps you down
stony stairway. You are thrown from side to
,and drenched in ice-cold water. However, you
mage to hang on. As the punt enters deeper
fer it begins to leak and break up, but before it
it comes to ground on a bank of the river. You
gzer out of the wreckage and collapse, battered
¢ exhausted. Turn to 86.

213
The warriors of the People carry you and the bod)
the Triceratops in triumph to their hilltop te

Dinosaur steak tastes surprisingly good. You spe
the rest of the ‘day feasting, resting and basking #
the adulation of the townspeople. You may rests
up to 6 points of STAMINA.

The following morning you and the Shaman lead
the fighters of the People to the Sacred Cave; v
settle down to lie in wait on a hillside overlook
the road that leads to the Warlord’s headquarter
Your scouts mun back with the news that the enes
is approaching; soon you can hear the marching fe
and see the cloud of dust that they are raising.
long column of Slave Warriors comes into sig
among the skeletal forms is a chariot, drawn
Elven Slave Warriors, whose occupant must be ¢
Warlord —- a giant of a man with a bulbous head.
second team of Slave Warnors pulls a wheeled
containing the proud figure of a tall human wo
The People cannot contain their anger. ‘Anxis!’
ery. ‘Our Queen! We will release you!’ — and
hurl themselves into battle. Anxis is heavy
guarded; your comrades are attacking the stronze

all the same. You never know what or who voe

might find.’ It is clear that a troop of the Margrave’s

soldiers are searching the village. The trooper

approaches the barrels behind the bar. Test your

Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 38. If you are Ur
lucky, turn to 154.

213
The warriors of the People carry you and the body c#
the Triceratops in triumph to their hilltop town.
Dinosaur steak tastes surprisingly good. You spend
the rest of the day feasting, resting and basking in
the adulation of the townspeople. You may restore
up to 6 points of STAMINA.

The following morning you and the Shaman lead all
the fighters of the People to the Sacred Cave; you
settle down to lie in wait on a hillside overlooking
the road that leads to the Warlord’s headquarters.
Your scouts run back with the news that the enemy
is approaching; soon you can hear the marching feet
and see the cloud of dust that they are raising, A
long column of Slave Warriors comes into sight
among the skeletal forms is a chariot, drawn by
Elven Slave Warriors, whose occupant must be the
Warlord — a giant of a man with a bulbous head. A
second team of Slave Warriors pulls a wheeled cage
containing the proud figure of a tall homan woman.
The People cannot contain their anger. ‘Anxis!’ ther
cry. ‘Our Queen! We will release you!’ ~ and ther
hurl themselves into battle. Anxis is heavilr
guarded; your comrades are attacking the strongest

part of the Slave Warrior army. Will you help them
tturn to 344); or will you ignore everything that
distracts you from confronting the Warlord himself
turn to 70)?

214
Again and again the punt jars as its flat bottom
‘Sctapes across the rocks, but somehow its timbers
hold together as the foaming river bumps you down
the stony stairway. You are thrown from side to
side, and drenched in ice-cold water. However, you
manage to hang on. As the punt enters deeper

‘water it begins to leak and break up, but before it

smks it comes to ground ona bank of the river. You
Sagger out of the wreckage and collapse, battered
and exhausted. Turn to 86.

215

You stand with your back against the trunk of an
enormous oak and await the attack. There is room
for both Scurrellors to fight you at once, but only
one advances; as it approaches, its knife weaving
patterns in the air, you realize why: the tip of its tail
has begun to crackle with energy and is buming
everything it touches. The second Scurrellor stays
well out of range. You therefore fight the Scurrellors
one ata time. You fight as normal, but in addition at
the end of each round of combat you must roll one
die; if the result is a 6, the Scurreilor’s tail has struck
you, and you must deduct 4 points from your
STAMINA.

SKILL STAMINA
First SCURRELLOR 5 9
Second SCURRELLOR 5 8

If you defeat them both, you continue along the
path. Turn to 230.

216
The man turns his back on you with a shrug, and
addresses his followers. “You men, there! Bring
some ropes! Bind this prisoner! It’s ime we re-
turned to camp. We'll take the prisoner with us.
Then we'll find out what this warrior’s really doing
here.’

And so, a little while later, you start a southward
march. Your hands are tied together, and your arms

are pressed against your body by coils of heavy
rope. A sack over your head makes it hard to see
where you are going. A rope connects you to the
belt of one of your captors, and you are pulled along
at the end of the line of marchers. You are dragged
deeper and deeper into the forest.

You think you may be able to loosen your bonds by
continually flexing and relaxing your muscles.
you decide to try this, turn to 119. If you'd rather
not, turn to 333.

217
The narrow path passes a wooden hut. The march-
ing column halts, and the Elf Queen opens the hut’s
door and invites you to enter. ‘Rest here tonight,’
she says, ‘and tomorrow some of my Elves will take
you to your destination.’ You enter the hut, and the
door closes behind you. There is just one window-
less room, containing only a straw mattress, on
which you sit. You can eat a meal from your Prov
sions at this point, and restore up to 4 points af
STAMINA. There seems nothing to do in the dark-
ness but go to sleep and await the moming — if you
do this, turn to 376. If you want to leave the hut and
explore your surroundings, turn to 177.

218
‘No money” yells the bandit leader. ‘No gold? What
tend of incompetent adventurer do you call your-
self? We'll take everything — the whole lot. Well, you
en keep the backpack - empty, of course. And
band over that sword, too!’

Tou cannot stop the bandits taking all your posses-
sons — erase all equipment and Provisions from
pour Adventure Sheet. If you refuse to part with your
sword, turn to 113.

B you give them your sword as well, you must
meduce your SKILL by 4 points until you acquire
mnother weapon; the bandits will ride off with their
sooty. Turn to 27.

219
You jump to your feet — and a Slave Warrior’s bony
arms encircle your waist as you try torun. You have
enly one chance to shake loose his grip before you
are surrounded by the other Slave Warriors. Roll
one die twice. If the total rolled is equal to, or less
than, your SKILL, turn to 122; if the total exceeds
Four SKILL, turn to 305.

220
You pull your sword-blade out of the bulbous car-
cass of the Giant Spider and move out of reach of its
siill-twitching limbs. You turn to look at the Goblin.
He is in a pitiable state. He is old and lame, and his
ence fine clothes are in tatters. Blood from a mullti-

tude of slight wounds trickles down his face, arms
and legs. You are surprised to see that he carries mt
weapon. He seems too exhausted to move. Will vos
stay with the Goblin until he recovers a little, and
offer him some Provisions? If so, turn to 136. If you
have no Provisions to offer, or if you decide that you
should continue your journey without delay
you leave the Goblin and continue heading dowm
stream along the clifftop path. Turn to 399.

221

The forest is full of noises: the tramp of marching
feet, the roars of animals. Armies are on the move:
you keep under the cover of the undergrowth, a
the paths that cross the forest are full of Slave
Warriors. You see squads of humans, Goblins,
Elves and Dwarfs, as well as other nameless crea-
tures that the forest has hidden until now —~ all are
blank-eyed, expressionless, mindless thralls, silent
except for the sound of their footsteps and the weind
cries of the scaly creatures that accompany them.
They are marching to the west— towards Kleinkastel
and the rich settlements beyond.

Your eastward path branches. You come out of the
forest to read the signpost. One wooden arm points
north, and is inscribed ‘Horfak and Dirlin Mines’;
the other points east, saying ‘Cleever Mine and
Throke Mine’. Which path will you take: north —
turn to 356; or east — turn to 258?

222

ou hand over 5 Gold Pieces, but protest that you
@on’t know anything about mining. ‘T really
ssuldn't care less about that,’ says the officer. ‘My
eencern is raising revenue for the Margrave’s treas-
ery. Wait here while I draw up the documents.’
While the officer signs and seals your Mining Li-
ce, his soldiers are searching the huts of the
wilage. He returns and hands you the paper, and
you ask whether you are permitted to stay and find
eut what, if anything, the soldiers find. ‘Do as you
please!’ says the officer. “You're a miner now;

‘you've every right to be here.’ Turn to 327.

223

Within an hour of dawn the streets are crowded.
All the inhabitants of Kleinkastel seem to be con-
g@egating in the Market Square. Swallowing your
pride, you walk up to the more prosperous-looking
passers-by and ask each of them for a Gold Piece
with which to buy a meal. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 111. If you are Unlucky, turn to 83.

224
You keep still. The Noasaurus continues to step
towards you, although it does not yet show any sign
et aggression. It worries you, however, because you
fear that it will draw the attention of at least one of
the Slave Warriors to you. The creature is now only
asword’s length away: will you attack it (turn to 26);
move away from it (turn to 58); or remain motionless

@urm to 93)?

225
The disembodied voice whispers again: ‘Thank yout
That will suffice as payment for your boat-trip. And
now please be kind enough to tell me — what is your
business here?’

You decide that it would be best to make some king
of reply. Will you say:

‘Tam searching for a wizard who
itis said can be found at

this end of the forest.’ Turn to 117
‘Tam a wandering warrior and my

adventures have brought me

here by chance.’ Turn to 23

226
The Oviraptor may be small but it has a sharp beak
and powerful claws. It shrieks as it hurls itself at
you.

OVIRAPTOR

If you defeat it in four or fewer rounds of combat,
you can leave the cage by squeezing through the slit
at the base of the back wall — turn to 39. If it is still
alive after four Attack Rounds, it continues to attack
you — turn to 28.

SKILL 8 STAMINAS

227

You push off from the bank and sit down in the
swaying boat. When you reach the centre of the
stream, you find that the cross-currents cease, and

the flowing waters take you gently in a south-
westerly direction. You relax and enjoy the trip as
the river gradually veers to the south and you drift
peacefully past the vast slumbering forests that
cowd the banks.

You hear splashing and, looking ahead, you see a
commotion in the water near the left bank, where
the surface is otherwise calm. Will you manoeuvre
he boat eastwards, towards the left-hand bank, to
get closer to the disturbance (turn to 139)? Or will
you let the boat continue to drift with the current in
the middle of the river (turn to 25)?

228
You fall forward and crash to the ground on the
compound side of the fence. Roll one die: if you roll
24,5 0r6, you twist your leg as you land — deduct 2
more points from your STAMINA. If you are still
alive, you pick yourself up and look around. Turn to

229

One of the soldiers runs to attack the monster and
the Elf woman, while you intercept the other. He
seems to be in no mood to talk, and attempts to
barge past you. You fight.

SOLDIER SKILL 5 STAMINA 8

H you survive long enough to reduce his sraM1NA
# 3 points or less, he turns and runs away into the
forest. Turn to 320.

230
A little further on, the path forks. If you take the
wider of the two branches, which leads north-east
and uphill towards the mountains, turn to 277. E
you take the smaller branch, south-eastwards into
the forest, skirting the hills, turn to 100.

233
Knives, hatchets, spears and axes hurtle through
the air towards you in succession and bury their
Mades in the wooden board against which you
stand. The warriors of the People are not on their
test form tonight: among the shower of weapons
Sat shave your skin and impale your clothing are
some that strike too close, wounding you, Roll one
die: the result of the die-roll is the number of points
of STAMINA you lose. If you are still alive, turn to
174~—unless you rolled a 6, in which case turn to 311.

231
You stumble backwards, fending off the spiked tips
of half a dozen clubs, and find time to glance at the
Goblins. Both have been felled before they could
finish their incantation, and you are alone against
ten Troglodytes. Surrounded, you are soon clubbed
to the ground. Your adventure ends here.

234
The wizard’s frown deepens. He stamps his foot in
umitation. ‘I have been so anxious about my privacy
chat I have ignored these events taking place only a
?ew miles away. I did not take heed of the rumours |
aeard. Now I must act, and I hope I am not too late.
Grasp my hand!’

232
As you walk forward, sword swinging, your leather
armour spattered with the blood of the vanquished
Oviraptor, you present an awesome sight. The
Goblins huddle together, fingering their swords
uncertainly. You have to decide how you will dea
with them. If you have a letter from the King of the
Forest Goblins, you could show it to them in the
hope that it will impress them and persuade them te
leave you in peace. If you do this, turn to 336. If you
charge, yelling and brandishing your sword,
straight at the Goblins, turn to 282. If you pretend te
ignore the Goblins and saunter towards the river-

side path, turn to 187,

You grip the wizard’s wrist; everything goes black,
and then you find yourself standing alone in a
torch-lit cellar. The wizard walks in bearing a tray of
food, and as you eat (restore up to 4 points of
STAMINA) he searches among the racks of swords
and shields that line the walls. ‘None of them is
made of iron,’ he says, ‘and so they don’t interfere
with the use ofmy. . . unusual gifts. And this is the
weapon for you! The Sword of Gravalan! It is
bronze, butas strong as steel. It will serve you as an
ordinary blade; but, in addition, if you twist this
part of the hilt the ip of the sword will instantly

ve

become white-hot. You may do this three times.
Each time the heat will last long enough to finish offf
one opponent. The heat will double the effect af
wounds that you inflict, and you may find it also has
other uses. The blade stays dark even when hot
Take it! And now, before we leave, do you have any
more news for me?’

Restore your skILL to its Initial value. If you havea
stone talisman on a leather thong, turn to 31. If not,
turn to 102.

235
The Margrave is outraged at your suggestion, and
orders his men to seize you. Gloten protests, but the
Margrave is incensed that a mere adventurer should
challenge him toa duel, and insulted by the sugges-
Son that he should use such a plebeian weapon as a
pickaxe handle. He instructs the soldiers of his
bodyguard to escort you out of the town. You are
eanished, on pain of death.

Fuming at the injustice of this sentence, you are
determined to prove your worth. You set off into the
forest. Turn to 22.

236

Lignia breaks off her chanting, and her thin fingers
cease their complex figures. ‘Itis very easy for you to
daim friendship with the forest,’ she says, ‘but the
contrary evidence is there, hanging from your belt.
Prove your harmiessness, warrior: surrender your
weapon! And then go down into my garden and
expend some of your war-like energies in fruitful
labour; repair the wounds inflicted on my charges
by your fellow soldiers.’ Will you agree to these
mstructions (turn to 30); or will you refuse and insist
on leaving (turn to 325)?

a i
a

ae te ied

237

You open the door to reveal a room much larger
than a prison cell. The stone floor is strewn with soft
tugs; glowing tapestries cover the walls; cushions
and rugs lie in profusion across intricately carved
pieces of furniture; streamers of velvet and silk hang
from silver chandeliers. In the midst of all this
luxury stands a woman; tall, dark-skinned and
haughty, she glares at you as you enter her room.
She is beautiful and richly dressed; yet her slim
imbs have hints of muscle that belie the softness of
her surroundings, and her flashing eyes make you
rather glad that she is restrained - her ankles and
wrists are manacled in heavy iron chains. If you bear
the Sign of the Spear on your forehead, turn to 65; if
not, furm to 324.

238
With your hands raised to show that you are hold-
ing no weapon, you move closer to the ape. You
point down the hill and say: ‘Go away from here.
Leave this place. Return to the forest. Do you under-
stand? Go down the hill. Go!’

The ape rubs its muzzle with the palm of a huge
hand. Its face clears, and itlooks at you shrewdly. ‘It
is a powerful restorative for the mind,’ it says, ‘to
hear a few simple sentences of human speech. I will
relinquish this hilltop to you, my friend, with
pleasure. It is a sorrowful location. The views, by
the way, are quite magnificent. I will take my leave.
I trust my appearance has caused you only a little

distress; I can assure you that any anxiety this
bestial form has engendered in you must be as
nothing compared to the anguish it brings me.
Good evening to you.’ The giant ape lopes away
down the hill. Turn to 18.

239

The sound of marching feet on the main path be-
hind you makes you hurry along the narrow track
into the sun-baked hills. You find a rocky ravine that
takes you out of sight of the Portal’s entrance, and
you follow it downhill. It widens into a broad, flat,
grassy valley, dotted with clumps of woodland.
Some of the trees are very unusual, like giant ferns;
all the animals are strange to you, although not all
resemble giant lizards — some are furry, some hairy,
looking a bit like the wild animals of Khul. In the
distance, the valley narrows again; you are now in
the widest part of it; to your right, you see a thin
column of smoke rising out of a copse of trees. Will
you investigate the source of the smoke (turn to
165), or will you continue towards the far end of the
valley (turn to 348)?

240
It takes you hours to carry all the cages from the
narrow chamber to the path outside the mine em
trance, where you arrange them in lines with them
doors facing the down-sloping forest. Then you
open the doors, and one by one the birds soar into
the sky, their colours flashing in the sunlight. The

last one flies away, but remains near by, circling
over the treetops and, as you watch, all the other
birds return, swooping out of the sky. You gaze
upwards, entranced, as the blue sky becomes a
kaleidoscope of twittering colours; their separate
songs merge at last into a harmonious crescendo,
and you understand that the birds, or perhaps the
deity that watches over them, are offering you their
thanks. They fly away into the forest. Restore 1
point of LucKif you need to. Turn to 5.

241

Gartax is reluctant to talk about Gloten’s treasure.
However, you make it clear that you expect such
information as the price for your help against Gar-
tax’s enemies. He tells you that the treasure is in
Gloten’s house, in the very room in which Gloten
receives visitors. The mine-owner’s vast armchair —
more like a throne — sits on a solid plinth in which
there is a concealed compartment. In order to open
the secret door, it is necessary to sit on the seat, and
then lift the arm-rests in the correct order: first the
left and then the right. Inside the compartment is a
chest full of gems and gold coins. ‘And now there’s
no time for more talk!’ says Gartax. ‘We have
arrived!’

Turn to 310.

242

Drips of ice-cold water drop on your head: now that
the Glaciator is dead, the underground roam is
beginning to warm again. Through the ice that coats
the walls you can make out a second door; you
assume that the Glaciator was brought here from
Khul to guard this entrance to the heart of the
palace. You hammer at the sheet of ice but you
cannot break it; it is as thick as your fist, and must be
melted. However, you cannot wait for a natural
thaw: echoing along the passage is the steady tread
of a squad of Slave Warriors, attracted by the noise
ot your fight with the Glaciator. You will have to try
to use the flame of your torch to melt the curtain of
ice (turn to 148) - unless you have the Sword of
Gravalan with at least one heat-charge remaining in
if; in this case, turn to 315.

243

So! A human!” says Lignia- ‘And a warrior, too,
unless | am mistaken. But a warrior without a sha
blade of metal—a very rare species indeed. Why are
you wandering through this forest?’

You tell Lignia that you are investigating the cause
of the recent disturbances in the area, and you relate
some of your recent adventures. ‘Your cause is
worthy,’ says Lignia, ‘but it is not my immediate
concern, You may leave in peace, but do not cross
my garden, Gol’ Will you attack Lignia (turn to 16);
or will you follow her instructions by descending
from the tree and skirting the dell (turn to 118)?

You are hurled into the raging torrent and swept
downstream. Swimming is impossible; the most
vou can do is to gulp air whenever a swirl of current
lifts you out of the icy water. Numb and helpless,
you plunge headlong through the endless cataracts.

Roll one die. The number that you roll is the number
of rocks that you smash into as you are swept
through the rapids. For each rock that you strike,
roll one die: a 1 or 2 causes 1 point of STAMINA loss;
a 3 Or 4 means you lose 2 points; a 5 or 6and you lose
3 points. Even if you are still alive, you are uncon-
scious before you reach the calmer waters at the
bottom of the rapids. Turn to 86.

245
The jumble of stone blocks was once a village. The

jungle creepers have not yet begun to cover the
Tuins, so you assume that the destruction occurred
recently. There is no sign of fighting, but the stone
huts have been torn down deliberately; ashes and
patches of scorched earth show where fires were
built to burn the huts’ furnishings. One building,
set apart from the village at the end of a narrow path
into the jungle, has escaped the destruction. As you
approach it, you see that it is a big building - a
temple. The doors are hanging open on broken
hinges; you look inside.

The interior has been devastated: torn wali-
hangings and broken statues litter the floor. The
tdol on the altar has not been damaged; the seated

statue stares down at you with a hundred eyes, each
one a coloured gemstone. With a click, its wide
mouth opens and, from inside it, a long wooden
scoop extends towards you. Although you have
never seen this particular deity before, you have
been in enough temples to know that the scoop is a
mechanism for receiving offerings. If you place a
Gold Piece on the scoop, turn to 124; if you climb on
to the altar to prise out the statue's jewelled eyes,
turn to 274; if you leave the temple and head for the
hilltop settlement, turn to 140.

246
A trail of mud runs across the path from the stream
to the dark cave-mouth. It looks as if the cave has an
inhabitant, and you decide that you would rather
not find out what it is. You tiptoe past the gaping
hole. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 115. If
you are Unlucky, turn to 329.

247
You step out from the shelter of the rocks. The
squad of Slave Warriors is only a stone’s throw
away, approaching steadily. You try to mimic their
regular, mechanical movements and expressionless
stare. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, tum to 44; if
you are Unlucky, turn to 270.

7

‘
+ 7
=
‘

v2

248

The bandit leader hurls the swords into the air. They
Sand with a clash of steel, and you and the bandits
crowd round them to see how they have landed.
‘We win!’ yells the bandit leader, “The marked
blades are showing!” He grabs the sack and stuffs it
into a saddlebag. He and his men mount their
ponies, and are about to ride off when the leader
turns to you again. “Thank you for the game. This
has been an entertaining and profitable encounter. |
would hate to see you going hungry — here, take
this!’

He takes a Gold Piece from his purse and throws it
to you. You catch it; the bandits ride away. With a
sigh, you shoulder your pack and continue on your
way. Remember to deduct your losses from your
Adventure Sheet. Turn to 27.

249
You walk along the broad limb until you reach the
centre of the tree. The trunk is as wide as a house,
and there is a cleft in the bark that is big enough to
squeeze through, You look inside: it is a sentry
post, and the groan came from a young Elf,
apparently in the throes of a nightmare while asleep
on duty. His facial features look like those of a
normal Elf, and his clothes are still quite clean and
tidy, You assume that he has only recently been
impressed into the ranks of the Slave Warnors. As
you expect, he wears a stone talisman round his
neck; he seems to be struggling to pull it off as he

dreams. Behind him, a staircase carved out of the
interior of the trunk winds downwards. Will you
tiptoe past the sleeping guard and go down the
Stairs (turn to 19); or will you try to remove the
talisman from round the guard’s neck (turn to 313)?

250
Your plan succeeds. You shoulder-charge the mer-
chant and, as he staggers, you grab his purse and
wrench it from his belt. You run to the end of the
alley and merge with the crowd before the merchant
can recover his wits or his breath. The purse con
tains 10 Gold Pieces. You immediately use one of
them to buy a hearty breakfast, and thus you avoid
losing any STAMINA.

As you leave the tavern, you almost fall overa group
of tiny children. They are thin and dirty and dressed
in rags. They ask you for money. If you give them
the remaining 9 Gold Pieces from the stolen purse
before setting off through the town, remember to
deduct them from your Adventure Sheet, and turn to
61. If you ignore their pleas, turn to 355.

251

The hunters present you with a long spear, and with
it you advance towards the Triceratops, which lifts
its three-horned, crested head and begins to bellow,
warning you to stay away; as you stalk closer still to
its nest of eggs, it scuffs the grass and prepares to
charge. As the beast lowers its head and thunders
towards you, you despair of ever defeating it.

TRICERATOPS SKILL 8 STAMINA 18

Your spear is useful in fending off the animal's
charges — during this fight, increase your SKILL by
2 points; but it has little impact on the leathery,
knobbly hide — deduct only 1 point from the Tri-
ceratops’s STAMINA each time you wound it. Its
horns and its thick, muscular tail are formidable
weapons — deduct 3 points from your STAMINA
each time it wounds you. If you are still alive after
five rounds of combat, you are relieved to hear the
war-cries of the other hunters as they join in the
attack. Surrounded, the Triceratops is soon over-
whelmed and slaughtered. Turn to 390.

252

‘The wizard certainly shares your concern; he has of
late heard disquieting reports about perils threaten-
ing humans, and Goblins, and beasts, in the forests
to the north.’ The thin voice pauses; the black shape
moves restlessly. “Your desire to render assistance is
noble —but have you sufficient wit to be of any use in
these testing matters? Let us try a simple test. Study
the dark shape of me, and answer this: Iam stunted
now, but will be fully grown by sunset. Iam always
here on fine days. Whose am I, and what am I?’

Write down the answer that you give, and turn to
191.

253

You step through the Portal, and you are once again
in the cavern, deep below the Cloudhigh Mou
tains. You look for the sack of Igneolite — it is still
there, resting innocuously against the Portal’s black
stone. With one last glance at the sunlit jungles of
the lest world, you thrust your flaming torch into
the fine powder, then retreat to the edge of the
cavern. The sack bursts open, and a cloud of dust
settles all over the black blocks of carved stone. Fora
few seconds a loud sizzling fills the cavern—and the
surface of the Portal bubbles and writhes as the
stone is melted, re-congealing instantly into a
smooth, featureless lump of fused rock. There is a
moment of silence; then an indescribable, brain-
curdling noise as of the rending of the substance of
the universe, a scream fading into infinite distance.
You know that the Portal is destroyed. As you make
your way out of the mine, you come across groups
of Slave Warriors: most of them are dead, buta few—
those most recently converted — are recovering their
wits. You try to comfort them, but you are anxious
to return to Kleinkastel. Turn to 4oo.

254
The attackers have looted the camp and taken away

everything of value ~ not just coins and gems, but
also weapons, armour, food, and even the pack-
animals. As you search the bodies, you observe
that, to a greater or lesser extent, all the Slave
Warriors exhibit strange and unhuman features.

They wear no armour or uniform, and their clothes
are filthy and tattered. Their skin is pale, and their
faces are almost blank. Some of them have actually
lost their facial features, having a short lipless slit
mstead of a mouth, two small holes instead of a
nose, and deeply set eyes without brows, lids or
keshes. Each of them wears a stone talisman on a
leather thong round the neck; the stone is carved
with unintelligible hieroglyphics. You find one of
these strange soldiers still alive, although dying.
You notice that his talisman is shrouded in black
Shadow. You remove it from round his neck; it
seems almost a living thing. You can put it in your
backpack and then wander into the forest — turn
t 2. Or you can hang it round your own neck-—turn
w 384.

255

You are held under guard in the village square and,
before long, an officer arrives on horseback. Jump-
ing from his saddle, he brushes dust from his blue
cloak and gleaming armour as the troopers salute
and the sergeant explains about your capture. The
officer strolls over to you. ‘A vagrant, eh?’ he
drawls. ‘Explain your business in this area — and
make it a good explanation, for your own sake.’

Do you have a warrant from the Margrave? If so,
you show it to the officer — turn to 73. Otherwise,
turn to 131.

256

You wait. A crack appears between two of the huge
stone blocks; it widens and, as you squeeze through
the gap, you hear the regular tread of Slave War-
riors’ feet on the stairs. On the other side of the
stone wall you find yourself in the middle of a
deserted corridor; you hastily push the block back
into place. Now you can no longer hear the sounds
of pursuit. To your right, the corridor ends at a
wooden door; it has strong iron bolts, but they are
not drawn across the door. When you try to pull
the door open, however, you find that it will not
open, no matter how hard you tug. The latch feels
strangely cold. In the other direction, the corridor,
lined with torches, stretches into the distance. You
walk towards this other end. Turn to 372.

257

You collect armfuls of dry twigs and several dead
branches and trunks of trees, and pile them on to
the embers of your camp fire. Within minutes the
hollow is full of light and heat from the bonfire you
have built. The logs will stay alight all night. You go
to sleep with your head resting on your backpack
and your sword unsheathed at your side.

You wake suddenly, and open one eye. By the
dancing light of the flames you see a stealthy hand
reaching for your sword. You grab your weapon
and jump to your feet. Two Goblins face you, their
shortswords at the ready.

SKILL STAMINA
First GOBLIN 5 4
Second GOBLIN 6 4

You must fight both at once. In each round of
combat, both Goblins attack you but you can attack
only one of them — choose which one at the start of
each round. Any Goblin with an Attack Strength
higher than yours wounds you; you can wound
only the one you have chosen to attack. If you kill
them both, turn to 20.

258

The path takes you out of the forest and into lightly
wooded hills. You pass beneath the branches of a
tree and hear a raucous shriek; you look up to see a
colony of four Korven perched above you. They
spread their wings and glide to the ground in front
of you, blocking your way. Korven are reclusive
forest-dwellers; you have heard of them, but have
never seen them before. They are small humanoids,
resembling evil-faced Goblins, with claws instead of
feet and feathered wings instead of arms. You
observe that even they have been captured and
enslaved — each wears a stone talisman on a leather
thong round its long neck. You cannot defeat four of
them together. Will you turn off the path and head
for the thick woodlands to your right (turn to 82); or
will you turn off the path to your left, up into the
rocky hills, hoping to find a defensible position
(turn to 206)?

259
During the evening, apothecaries examine your
body for wounds and prepare remedies which you
swallow before retiring to the Margrave’s guest
chamber. You awake next morning invigorated:
if any of your scores are below their Initial levels,
restore them to-their full amount.

The townspeople gather again, and again you are at
the centre of a public ceremony. The Margrave
presents you with a warrant ordering his subjects to
allow you free passage and to furnish you with any

help you may require; Gloten gives you a purse
containing 10 Gold Pieces and, ‘from the Wizard’, a
phial containing a Potion of True Seeing. And the
townspeople bring you Provisions ~ you manage to
cram enough for five meals into your backpack.
(Note these changes on your Adventure Sheet.)

‘All we know,’ says Gloten, ‘is that, somewhere
underground, someone has discovered an ancient
portal to another world and is using its evil power to
create an army of Slave Warriors out of enslaved
forest-dwellers. This Warlord is probably to be
found beyond the Portal, in the strange world from
which unnatural beasts have issued to plague our
countryside. If you can defeat the Warlord, your
reward will be as generous as your deeds are
glorious. Remember: not only the weak are at
gisk — Horfak and Dirlin, two of the’ wealthiest
mine-owners, are among those missing.’

You thank Gloten; if you have no sword, you
borrow one from a soldier; and you set off into the
forest. Turn to 22.

260
A Slave Warrior is an unnerving opponent. His
movements appear slow, but he wastes no effort
and never tires. No expression ever crosses his face:
not even the cruellest wound causes a flicker of
emotion in the blank depths of his eyes.

SLAVE WARRIOR

If you win, you look towards the centre of the grove,
where the mélée is coming to an end. The man and
one of the Slave Warriors seem to be badly hurt; the
Dwarf is prevailing against his opponent. If you
decide to leave now and travel to the end of the
valley, turn to 348; if you stay to help defeat the
remaining Slave Warriors, turn to 202.

SKILL 7 STAMINA &

. 261
For several seconds the bandit leader stares at you
grimly. Then he grins widely and begins to clap
his hands together. The other bandits join in the
applause as Kran pulls himself to his feet and offers
you his scimitar.

‘Well fought! Both of you, well fought!’ says the
bandit leader. ‘Stranger, you have proved your
courage and have entertained us well. You mar
keep your sword. You may keep everything. Pick &
all up —it’s all yours"

Kran’s comrades help him into his saddle, and the
bandits ride away. You collect your possessions,
then continue on your way southwards. Turn to 27-

262
Looking closely at the sentries, you can see that only
the dregs of the Slave Warrior army are being left
behind on guard duty. The two guards are, or were,
aged Gnomes, and they look far too old to fight.
However, they are controlled by the will of the
Warlord of the Portal, and they attack with knives in
their shaking hands. You can easily fight them one
at a time. If you have a Ring of Zombie Warding, it
affects the Slave Warriors — the sKILL of each of
them is reduced by 1 point.

SKILL STAMINA
First GNOME SLAVE
WARRIOR 5 4
Second GNOME SLAVE
WARRIOR 4 4

lf you defeat the Gnome Slave Warriors, you walk
through the gate in the high fence. Turn to 68.

263

You hack a way up overgrown slopes, slide down
treacherous banks, and splash across tree-
shadowed streams. You join a narrow path which
soon leads you to a clearing, in the centre of which a
solitary tree spreads its shade. You step into the
cearing, uncomfortably aware that the surround-
ing forest is unnaturally quiet. As you reach the
central tree, you hear the rustle of branches from the
far side of the glade, and you see a man run into
the open, closely pursued by a creature from a
nightmare. It is a Phororhacos, a vicious flightless
bird, much taller than a human, with a huge curved
beak and glittering eyes surmounted by a crest of
feathers. The man looks frail and tired; he is limping
and is armed with only a small knife. With an
ululating cry the cruel bird chases him relentlessly
as he tries to back away.

If you want to come to the man’s rescue, turn to 176.
EF you would rather avoid getting involved, and
return to the cover of the forest, turn to 101.

264
On your left, rising above the trees, the bare brown
hillsides are pockmarked with mine entrances. You
reach a village, an unplanned cluster of cabins,
home for the miners and their families. But the
village seems to have been abandoned; there is no
sound, and doors and shutters hang loose on their
hinges, revealing dark silent interiors. You pause at

the edge of the village, and you can hear a noise
from the path behind you. It is the tramp of march-
ing feet, and the guttural sound of men’s voices,
speaking in the local dialect. Will you wait on the
path for the men to arrive (turn to 41); or will you
quickly find a hiding-place in the village (turn to
125)?

265

You can hear the Slave Warriors approaching, but
they are not yet in sight. You pull back the bolt,
open the door arid enter the cage, pulling the door
shut behind you. A wooden partition divides the
cage; if you stay in front of the partition, you can be
seen from the corridor, so you hurry behind it. You
find that the back of the cage is not empty. You are
sharing it with an Oviraptor, a small beaked dino-
saur rearing up on its hind legs, no taller than a
Dwarf. You look for another exit from the cage:
apart from the door at the front, the only way out is
to squeeze through a horizontal slit that runs along
the bottom of the back wall. The Oviraptor does not
allow you much time for thought; it attacks. Will
you escape through the narrow slit, suffering the
loss of 2 points of STAMINA as the Oviraptor lacer-
ates your departing body (turn to 39); or will you
stand and fight the creature (turn to 226)?

266
Your sword slides into the creature’s eye-socket,
and the momentum of its attack forces the blade
deep into its cranium. The Elasmosaurus is mortally

wounded, but it will not die quietly. It writhes
in frenzy, lashing its tail and neck from side to
side, tossing your little boat into the air and filling it
with blood-reddened water. All you can do is hang
on to the side while trying to sheathe your sword
once more.

If you are using a skiff, turn to 71. If your craft is a
punt, turn to 180.

267

You follow the path towards the Goblins’ statue-
topped hill. You dodge between bushes and boul-
ders, trying to remain concealed even though there
is not much cover on the hillsides at this altitude.
You move out from behind a clump of gorse, and
come face to face with two Troglodytes. They lift
their snouts, squinting and snuffling and shielding
their eyes with their paws. They exchange a few
gruff syllables, then attack, one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
First TROGLODYTE 5 9
Second TROGLODYTE 6 7

You can escape, with the loss of 2 points from your
STAMINAasa Spiked club catches your shoulder, by
running back along the hillside path and down into
the forest ~ turn to 144. If you stay to fight, and win,
turn to 66. ve ;

+ ty My

268

As you make your way through the outskirts of
Kleinkastel, you pass stalls and craftsmen’s work-
shops. You may buy Provisions, at a cost of 1 Gold
Piece per meal, up to a maximum of five meals.
you do not have a sword, you may buy one at a cost

of 5 Gold Pieces. (Remember to make a note of an¥
changes on your Adventure Sheet.) Once you have
completed your purchases, you leave the town and
head eastwards into the forest. Turn to 22.

; 269
Cautiously you push up the trapdoor and look
around. This level also consists of one large room; it
seems to have been the living-quarters of whoever
inhabited the tower. All that remains of the furn+
ture is a bed and a chest; the chest contains robes
embroidered with arcane symbols. Smaller items
have been removed — you find hooks on the walls
where pictures once hung. Under the bed you find
the stub of a thick candle, which you put in your
backpack. There is a window in each of the four
walls. Looking west, you see that the forest thins,
and beyond there is scrubby steppe, ending in the
far distance at mountains silhouetted against the
sunset. Northwards, the river down which you
boated disappears into the forest. To the east, the
foreground is dominated by a rocky eminence on
the far bank of the river; stained pink by the setting
sun, it is surmounted by a stone hut. At the foot of
the crag the river joins another waterway, and their
combined flow foams down ferocious rapids as they

‘speed south. In that direction, beyond the forest,

‘you can see a vast expanse of still water, lit by the
’s last rays. You can see no way to reach the top

“storey of the tower. If you decide to stay in the dark

d look for one, turn to 183. If you decide to return
® the first-floor room, turn to 109.

270

The Slave Warriors continue to march along the
ridge towards you. You dare not try to enter the
valley — they would know that you were not one of
them and could capture you as you attempted to
push into the jungle. You continue with your pre-
tence, marching slowly in front of the Slave Warrior
patrol. They are gaining on you, but you dare not
tun. You see another squad marching towards you
from the other direction. As you are caught between
the two groups, you realize that none of them has
been fooled by your play-acting. You are sur-
rounded. Turn to 328.

271
The third inn that you visit, a small establishment
within the old walls and in the shadow of the castle,
has room for you. It costs 1 Gold Piece, which you
pay gladly, to spend the night on a straw mattress In
anattic. +

You sleep well and wake in the morning feeling very
hungry. If you do not eat, you will lose 4 points from

your STAMINA! You can avoid this by eating one

meal from your Provisions, if you have any. Alter-

natively, if you have money, you can obtain an

excellent breakfast from the innkeeper at the cost of
another 1 Gold Piece. If you have neither Provisions
nor money, you must either deduct 4 STAMINA
points or go out and beg for food in the streets.
Make all necessary adjustments to your Adventure
Sheet, and then turn to 61 — unless you are going to
beg for food, in which case turn to 223.

ee

272
Your backpack is moving! You look inside: the
Pteranodon’s egg is vibrating violently. You lift it
and place it on the ground. Cracks appear on the
shell; a beak appears; then the egg bursts apartanda
tiny Pteranodon stares up at you. It spreads its
wings, hops up and down, and then opens its beak
DPB ATI and lets out an ear-splitting screech. It is hungry. If
See o” aah: mt you give ita meal from your Provisions, turn to 112.
mT eerige / if you have no Provisions, or do not wish to waste

any on a baby pterosaur, turn to 7.

RrANMOM

A
Mr

cs

SS

2
Snuffling as it scurries along, the Armoured Mole
heads unerringly towards you.

ARMOURED MOLE — SKILL4 STAMINA 10

Because of the darkness and the confined space,
your SKILL is reduced by 2 points for the duration of
this fight. If you defeat the mole, you may continue
vour search of the cellar. You find nothing of value,
but there is enough unspoilt food to provide you
with Provisions for two meals. You can take these if
vou wish — note them on your Adventure Sheet. You

climb out of the cellar into the relatively light and
airy first-floor room. Turn to 359.

274
The wooden tongue withdraws into the statue’s
mouth, which clicks shut. You are standing on the
altar, trying to pull out one of the gems on the idol’s
face, when you see a movement in the darkness at
the back of the temple. ‘Desecration! a voice echoes
round the roof. ‘Can the Mad God riever rest?’

You run, but a vast multi-fingered hand blocks your
way; you see a huge foot on each side of the altar.
You look up and cry out in terror as a hundred eyes
glare down at you froma head that touches the rook
You feel yourself pulled upwards towards the great
face with its glittering array of eyes. Closer, . . you
are embedded in the god’s cold skin. You struggle to
turn, to look down at the temple floor.

You have been transformed: the Mad God now has
another eye, and you will see for him until the end
of time.

275
The door opens before you have time to knock onit
twice, From the darkness inside the hut, four eves
gleam at you. Two of them belong toa grim-looking
Dwarf; the other two, even more belligerent, are
those of a white parrot-like bird sitting on the
Dwarf’s shoulder, its long tail-feathers curled round
his neck. The Dwarf is holding a long-poled boat-

hook which he pushes up to your throat. ‘I’m the
boatman,’ he says. ‘What are you after?’ You ask for
passage downriver. You say that you will pay in
coin or in hard work. The Dwarf is not interested.
‘What's the use of money? There’s nothing to buy
any more. And I don’t want to take off down that
nver. Now if you’ve got some grub — why, I'd sell
you one of me boats for a decent meal. We haven’t
eaten in days, have we, Pol?’

If you want to give him some of your Provisions in
return for a boat, turn to 323. If not, the Dwarf
stands guard over his boats as you continue your
journey along the riverside path. Turn to 79.

276
In this moment of calm, you tell the woman again
that you mean her no harm. She replies in an archaic
dialect of your own tongue. ‘You kill my enemies;
you are therefore my friend. I have seen only en-
emies since I was brought to this foul place. I am
Anxis the Hunter, Queen of the People. Quickly,
unlock these manacles; give me that creature’s
sword. That's it; hurry! You must help me to finish
Horfak the Tyrant. The Peopie had lived at peace in
this land for thousands of years — and then Horfak
arrived through the Sacred Cave, bringing death
and destruction to our world. The gateway from
your world has become an evil thing; all beings
coming here through it since Horfak have been
half-dead things under his command, like this
Dwarf here. Horfak built this palace in the middle of

SKILL STAMINA
First SLAVE WARRIOR 5 =
SecondSLAVE WARRIOR = 4 -

As you desperately parry their blows, you hear the
hopeless cries of the camp-dwellers as the Slave
Warrior army launches its attack. If you win this
fight, you see more of your skeletal opponents
stalking through the forest towards you. You make
a run forit; eventually, although you have lost your
bearings, you are sure you have shaken off your
pursuers. Turn to2.

281
The body of the Giant Watersnail sinks slowly to the
bottom of the pool. With shaking hands, you put
your boots back on — and look up sharply as you
hear noises above you. Slave Warmiors — dozens of
them - are staring down at you from the ridges that
enclose the pool. You turn to scramble back up the
course of the stream, but other Slave Warriors,
careless of their unfeeling bodies, are throwing
themselves down the steep slopes to cut off your
escape. Others tumble down behind you. You are
soon surrounded and, although you fight, you are
outnumbered. Turn to 328.

a

I <2 7

-

262
The Goblins have no stomach for this fight, and are
slow and disorganized. You find that you can fight
them one at a time: you fight the first Goblin until
you wound him, whereupon he drops back to nurse
his injury and you face the second Goblin; when he
is wounded, you face the third, and so on.

SKILL STAMINA
First GOBLIN 5 4
Second GOBLIN 6 4
Third GOBLIN 6 3

If you survive until you have inflicted wounds on
the Goblins amounting to a total of 8 points of
STAMINA, the Goblins surrender at this point. They
throw their loot to the ground and run off into the
forest. You can pick up 6 Gold Pieces.

You can now either return to your boat, cast off from
the jetty, and let the current take you downstream
(turn to 104), or walk in the same general direction
along the riverside path (turn to 50).

283

Clouds of darkness close round you from ail sides.
Your lights seem as dim as distant stars seen
through fog; and as the torch that you are holding
aloft in your right hand is snuffed out, the cloak of
blackness begins to wrap itself round your body.
Shuddering in the grip of the unearthly cold, you
attempt to relight the torch. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 63; if you are Unlucky, turn to 374.

284

The torch falls from Azudraz’s metal hand and
drops on to one of the paper fuses. Tongues of flame
run in one direction towards one of the sacks of
igneolite and, in the other, towards the mass of
crumpled paper where all the fuses meet. You can-
not put out the fire; you must leave the building.
Turn to 45.

285

Dozens of pairs of dry, leathery lips nuzzle your
face. You manage to remain motionless. After what
seems iike an eternity, the suckered tentacles relax
and the heavy weight of the creature’s body slithers
down your legs. You remove the blindfold and stare
at the hideous monstrosity that has been crawling
all over you.

‘Well done!’ says Gloten. ‘Seven of you have passed
that test. The animal is a Saltsucker, and perfectly
harmless as long as you keep still. The second part
of the tournament will test your wits. One of you at
a time, please; and, Margrave, your assistance
would be appreciated. Thank you. Now then; as
you probably know, in Kleinkastel’s coinage, 2
Brass Pieces are worth 1 Silver Piece, and 2 Silver
Pieces are worth 1 Gold Piece. I have six coins,
worth a total of 3 Gold Pieces. I will give two coins to
one of you; two coins to the Margrave; and I will
keep two coins myself. The Margrave’s coins are of
two different types; my coins are both of the same
type. What type of coins have I got?’

The coins you have been given are both Brass
Pieces. Will you answer ‘Silver Pieces’ (turn to 147)
or ‘Gold Pieces’ (turn to 6}? ;

286

Under the stars you search the grasslands until you
find the pile of round boulders. You sense the
presence of animals grazing on the plains, but you
wriggle down out of sight and into a comfortable
position. You sleep; and you wake to find the sun
high in the sky. As you stretch your limbs, you
realize with some amusement that you are not in a
pile of boulders at all: the hard round shapes are
large eggs. You have spent the night in a nest. Your
smile fades as a shadow falls across you, and you
look up into the angry eyes of the nest’s guardian —
an adult Triceratops. Its three-horned head is as
long as you are; each of its four legs is as tall as you.
It is the size of a small house. You must fight it.

TRICERATOPS SKILL 8 STAMINA 18

Your weapon has little impact on the leathery hide -
deduct only 1 point of STAMINA each time you
wound it. Its horns and iail are formidable weapons
— deduct 3 points from your sfAMINA each time it
wounds you. If you are still alive after six rounds of
combat, you are relieved to hear shouts: the town’s
ceremonial hunt has arrived, and the warriors
salute your bravery as they join in the attack.
Surrounded, the Triceratops is soon overwhelmed
and slaughtered. Turn to 399.

ve $

287

You run between two wooden huts and on into the
safety of the forest. The sounds of pursuit soon die
away behind you, and you restin the forest for some
time. Then, keeping out of sight of the village, you
cut a trail eastwards, and eventually rejoin the main
path that you had been on before you entered the
village. Turn to 11.

288

As you cling to the rock with the tips of your fingers
and toes, you feel your strength failing. You reach
for the next hand-hold, but slither down the cliff
and land on the riverside path. The number you
have just made a note of is the number of STAMINA
points you must lose. If you are still alive, you have
no choice but to drag yourself along the path, in
front of the mouth of the cave. Turn to 246.

289

You take a deep breath and step into the blackness
between the towering uprights. Your previous
mental torment was nothing compared to this:
you are assailed by a malignant will that invades
your mind, sweeping aside your flimsy objections
and denials as it pursues your frantic spirit deepe:
and deeper into the recesses of your brain. Only the
strongest of wills can survive the onslaught of the
Portal’s coercive power. A Ring of Zombie Warding
will help. If you have one, turn to 96; if not, turn to
188.

290

You reach out to feel the silvery filaments that
outline the sides of the spectral ladder. Your fingers
touch -- nothing; but a searing pain rips through
your body and you cannot move your hands from
the moonlit object. Deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA. The pain passes; you shake your head,
look again at the ladder — and it is now clearly made
of real, solid wood. You test a rung — it takes your
weight. You mount to the ceiling, where you find a
concealed trapdoor. You push it open and climb
through to the tower’s top storey.

You are in a belvedere, a once-beautiful viewing
platform with graceful open arches supporting a
high-domed roof. The stonework is deteriorating:
chunks of the roof and the parapet are missing. The
shattered remains of the furniture have been
gathered together in a corner. The heap looks
almost like an enormous bird’s nest -—and just as you
start to approach it you hear the flapping of huge
wings. If you decide to leave at this point, you can
descend to the first-floor room — turn to 109. If you
prefer to wait for the nest’s owner, turn to 53.

291
As a warrior of the tribe, you are free to do as you
please, Several of the townsfolk see you leave your
hut, but they merely call out greetings to you. The
gate in the town wall is guarded, but the sentry
unbolts the doors for you and claps you on the back
as you go through. You stumble down the hill and
into the jungle. Dawn is still hours away, and you
make slow progress in the darkness. You emerge at
last on toa broad plain. In the distance ahead of you,
there is a ridge of low hills, which you head for. You
pass a pile of boulders that you think you could
shelter in, and perhaps get some sleep, until day-
break; but you press on. After some time you come
to a wide, well-used track which you reckon is the
main road leading to the Portal. You cross it quickly,
not wishing to meet a squad of Slave Warriors, and
climb the ridge beyond it. You look down into a
grassy valley, dotted with clumps of trees, that
narrows towards your right — the direction that
leads away from the Portal. A cluster of rocks forms
a shelter in which you could rest until dawn; will
you stay here, and walk up the valley in the morn-
ing (turn to 348); or will you return to the pile of
boulders (turn to 286)?

292
"You have made a wise choice, my friend,’ says the
man, as about a dozen roughly dressed men and
women, armed with axes and staves, converge on
you from all sides of the clearing. ‘Now then: why
are you here in the forest?’

You describe your incredible meeting with the talk-
ing Spinosaurus, and explain that you are looking
for Gartax. The man is not impressed. “Gartax? He’s
no more than a brigand, from what I've heard, and
the rabble that follow him are worse. You haven't
answered my question: you're a trained fighter —
what are you doing in this part of the world?’

If you reply that you are on your way to Kleinkastel
in response to Gloten’s appeal for help in investigat-
ing the mysterious occurrences in the forest, turn to
go. If you say that you’re a free-booting adventurer
who just happened to be in the area, turn to 216.

293
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 114. If you
are Unlucky, turn to 128.

294
The dark-skinned horsemen surround you. The
saddles and bridles of their ponies are decorated
with coloured ribbons, and the Southerners’ robes
are covered with silk sashes and ornate bando-
hers of throwing knives. They are bandits; each
holds a curved scimitar. From your previous adven-

tures you have learnt to understand a little of the
Southerners’ tongue and so are able to follow him
when their leader speaks: ‘Look at this! A real
person for a change. These are hard times for a gang
of honest thieves, my friend. The pickings have
been poor of late — there’s no one in the forest but
frightened Goblins and those grey-faced shrivelled-
up Zombies. But maybe our luck’s changed! Let’s
have a look at what you've got in that backpack.
Come on, empty it out~ and empty your purse too!”

Will you obey his instructions (turn to 8}, or will you
draw your sword and fight (turn to 391)?

295
As you continue along the corridor, you pass more
open doors and empty cells. Then you reach
another bolted door. This one has no spy-hole. Will
you unboit the door and enter (turn to 237); or
continue along the corridor (turn to 364)?

296
The arm-rest is heavy and the hinge is stiff, but you
manage to pull the Jeft arm of the chair to an upright
position. Nothing happens. You pull on the right
arm; as you do so, you feel movement in the base of
the chair. Looking down, you see that the front of
the plinth on which the chair stands has opened
outwards; as you jump down from the seat, you see
that the plinth is hollow. It contains a wooden box.
You are about to pull the box out of its hiding-place
towards you when you hear footsteps approaching.

You must not be discovered as a thief. Frantically,
you wrench at the arm-rests, trying to pull them
back down. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, you
succeed in restoring the chair to its original appear-
ance. Turn to 211. If you are Unlucky, turn to 317.

297

With surprising speed, some of the Dryads run to
head you off while others move to cut off your
retreat. You find yourself at the centre of a circle of
unsmiling elfin brown faces. You try to fight your
way out, but you find that Dryads have very tough
skin, and your attack serves only to anger them.
They close in, their thin fingers tearing at your body
and gouging your face and throat. You have no
chance to escape.

298

You squeeze through the doorway into a narrow
tunnel that twists and tums sharply before widen-
ing into a large chamber. It is completely dark, but
you can hear something moving in the chamber. It is
a Troglodyte, and it can see very well in the dark. It
attacks. You cannot see your opponent or the way
out of the underground chamber — reduce your
SKILL by 3 points for the duration of this fight.

TROGLODYTE

If you win, you locate the dim glimmer that indi-
cates the way out of the chamber, and you emerge,
blinking, into daylight. You can either climb to the

SKILL 5 STAMINA 8

top of the mound — turn to 103; or return to the hill-
side path and descend into the forest - turn to 144

299

While the Dwarf examines the contents of your
backpack, you stare in amazement at the strange
creature called Gluda. It looks a bit like a lizard — but
it walks on its hind legs and stands as tall as its
Dwarf keeper. Its front legs are like short arms, with
claw-tipped fingers, while its powerful back legs
have even larger claws. It opens its mouth, reveal-
ing yellow fangs, and speaks! ‘What are you staring
at, mud-brain?’

‘Don’t mind him, Gluda,’ says the Dwarf. ‘You've
got to expect people to look at you a bit now that
you've ... changed. What about this backpack?
Not worth the leather it’s made of. Let’s have that
sword instead — or I'll set Gluda on you.’ He throws
your backpack towards you, and you catch it. If you
refuse to surrender your sword, tum to 342. If you
give the Dwarf your sword, he will leave you and
you can go back to sleep, but you must reduce your
SKILL by 4 points when in combat until you acquire
another weapon — turn to 380.

300

Wood Elves are renowned archers. Before you can
reach the edge of the clearing, an arrow embeds
itself in your calf. You collapse, clutching your leg.
Deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA. The Wood
Elves seem determined that you should not escape.
You struggle to your feet to ask them their purpose.
Tum to 42.

301
However much you twist and turn, you cannot
reach your scabbard. Your limbs are covered in
glutinous slime, and it is all you can do to prevent
the creature’s tongue rolling you up into a helpless
bundle. You struggle and kick, and you hope thatas
you are drawn near the Stegocephalian’s face you
will be able to land a blow on one of its huge
luminous eyes. This will be a desperate fight. De-
duct from your SKILL score the number that you
rolled on the die, to take account of your helpless
position; then deduct a further 4 points from your
SKILL because you are fighting without a sword. If
this reduces your SKILL to less than 1 point, turn to
3. Otherwise, turn to 94.

302
in the midst of your agony you hear a frantic twitter-
ing. In their cages on the floor by your feet, the two
tiny birds are fluttering in panic. You realize that the
shape-changing power of the Portal is being dissi-
pated, spread across three living beings. But the

pressure on your body is increasing, and the pain is
almost more than you can bear. You grit your teeth
and knot your muscles, determined to hold your
body’s shape.

Roll one die twice. If the total is higher than your
current SKILL score, turn to 89; if the total is the
same as, or lower than, your SKILL, turn to 133.

303
All the huts are similar in both construction and
their contents. They are simple wooden buildings
with only one or two rooms each. Each contains
only a few rugs, straw mattresses, and pots and
pans. Food, clothing and valuables have been taken
away — if not by the villagers themselves when they
left, then by gangs of Goblins, bandits or soldiers.
Among the items that remain are a length of stout
rope, a bundle of torches (dried rushes bound
together and soaked in wax and pitch) and a miner's
helmet. This last object looks very like a warrior’s
helm, but with the addition of a lantern fixed at the
front; the lantern has a little door that opens to re-
veal that the inside surface of the lamp is brilliantly
reflective metal which magnifies the light cast by
the lantern’s flame. The source of the flame would
normally be a short candle — but this is missing. If
you have a candle-stub with you, you will find that
it fits perfectly, and that the miner’s helmet will
provide you with light in dark places, while leaving
both your hands free, You may keep any or all of the

items that you find in the village (make any ad-
ditions to your Adventure Sheet); you then leave,
continuing along your eastward path. Turn to 11.

304

Lacking the pickpocketing skills of a sneak thief,
you will have to attempt a straightforward purse
snatch. You select your victim: a portly merchant,
puffing along a quiet alley. You must barge into
him, tear his purse from his belt, and run from the
scene of the crime as fast as your Jegs can carry you.
Roll two dice, If the total is less than your SKILL
score, turn to 250. If the total is equal to or higher
than your SKILL, turn to 159.

305

Trapped in a Slave Warrior’s bony embrace, you can
only wriggle your limbs helplessly as you are carried
to the edge of the pit. Then the Slave Warrior lets go.
You drop to the stone floor of the pit. Roll one die -
the result is the number of points of STAMINA that
you lose in your fall. If you are still alive, you are
lying alongside one of the Tyrannosaurus’s feet - it
is almost as long as you are tall. You pull yourself
upright: your head reaches to the top of the mon-
ster’s thigh. You look up and see that the walls of
the pit are twice your height; the Tyrannosaurus’s
great head is higher still, and the beast is looking
down at you with keen interest. It decides to kill you
and eat you. You must try to defend yourself, but
this will not be a normal fight. Any weapon that you
use has almost no effect; the dinosaur’s hide is as
tough as a coat of mail. All you can do is scurry
about the floor, dodging the monster’s stamping
feet and snapping jaws, and trying to reach a nar-
row slit at the bottom of part of the wall that is the
only exit from the pit. Roll one die. The result is the
number of times that you must roll two dice and
compare the result with your SKILL; each time the
result of the dice-roll exceeds your SKILL, deduct 4
points from your STAMINA as you are crushed
against the wall by the Tyrannosaurus’s leg or raked
by its teeth and claws. If you survive, turn to 39.

306

You run towards the black humanoid shape and, as
it stands motionless, you hurl yourself at it. Your
outstretched hands meet no resistance and dark-
ness surrounds you as you fall headlong into the
blackness of the being’s body. It consists of nothing;
it is a void, a bottomless pit, into which you fall for
ever more.

307
Clouds of darkness close round you from all sides.
Your lights seem as dim as distant stars seen
through fog; but the darkness cannot quite quench
them, cannot quite surround you with the absolute
blackness of death. A coldness sits in the centre of
your body and benumbs every sense; visions of
destruction and decay float before your eyes. But
your lights remain aflame, and at last they begin to
flicker a little more strongly. The shadows begin to
retreat. You have survived the Portal’s final attack.
Turn to 14. :

308
Like a monstrous flightless bird, the horned Ovirap-
tor charges towards you as you stand with drawn
sword at the end of the jetty. The Goblins stay by the
house to watch the fight.

OVIRAPTOR SKILL 8 STAMINA 10

If you win, you can jump into your boat, cast off
from the jetty, and allow the current to take you
downstream — turn to 104. Alternatively, you can
advance towards the three Goblins — turn to 232.

You are in the topmost part of the Elves’ tree-home,
and during the first part of your descent there are
enough branches to provide plenty of hand-holds.
You also make use of some of the ramps and steps
that the Elves have built to link their dwellings. The
illusion that the Elf Queen cast on you has now
dissipated, and every Elf that you glimpse as you
tiptoe past open doorways and windows has clearly
been enslaved and turned into a Slave Warrior. It
seems that all the Wood Elves are now in thrall to
the evil power that you hope to find and defeat.

Lower down the tree, there are fewer branches, and
no helpful Elvish constructions. You are forced to
jump from limb to limb, and eventually you fall. Roll
three dice; if the total exceeds your SKILL, the
difference between them is the number of points of
STAMINA that you must deduct as you crash
through the tree’s branches on your way to the
forest floor. If you are still alive when you hit the
ground, turn to 293.

310
The camp, which occupies a large clearing, is a
collection of old tents and rickety wooden shelters
huddling around a central enclosure where pack-
animals are tethered. Sentries stand guard outside
the circle of shelters, while others sit in the branches
of the surrounding trees. They look tense and tired,
but Gartax’s return cheers everyone in the camp.
You can see at once that very few of the people are

trained fighters, although each of them, down to the
youngest child, carries some sort of weapon: a flail,
a pitchfork or a broom-handile.

Gartax invites you to his tent, where he tells you
that he believes an attack to be imminent and con-
fesses that he is doubtful whether he has enough
armed warriors to defend the camp. He begs you to
stay until his people are ready for the final stage of
their trek out of the forest. Will you stay with Gartax
and help to defend the camp? If so, turn to 132. Or
will you insist on continuing your journey, and
walk away into the depths of the forest (turn to 2)?

311
Too many sharp blades have nicked your limbs; too
many minor wounds are pulsing with pain all over
your body. You cannot bear the thought of standing
still, helplessly rigid, as the laughing warriors take
turns to hurl badly aimed death at you. An axe
hurtles towards your head - and you duck. The
crowd is suddenly silent; the warriors turn to the
Shaman, who gives a signal. You have failed
the Ordeal. With grim faces, the warriors resume
throwing their weapons — but now you are a target
to be hit, not missed. There is no escape. Soon your
head is decorating the eaves of the town’s meeting-

place. bf

312
At dawn, you stand on top of the stone shelter and
look again in all directions. You confirm your fears:
you can continue your southward journey only by
reboarding your boat and braving the rapids. You
are very hungry, and you must eat to maintain your
strength. Consume one meal from your Provisions,
or deduct 4 points from your STAMINA.

Now you must decide. Will you retrace your steps
and return to your boat, untie it from the jetty, and
allow yourself to be carried downstream by the
current? If so, turn to 104. Or will you abandon the
boat and head north on foot, trekking upstream on
the eastern bank of the river that you boated down
yesterday? If so, turn to 278.

313
As gently as you can, you take hold of the talisman’s
leather cord and puil it over the head of the sleeping
Elf. He cries out once, and then his body slumps.
You fear that he is dead; after you shake him,
however, he wakes suddenly and starts back as he
catches sight of the talisman hanging on its cord. He
snatches it from your hand and dashes it to the
floor. He takes a deep breath then says: ‘A thousand
thanks, my friend. Just in time you have saved me
from perpetual slavery, an existence worse than any
death. All my tribe are lost, subject to the tyrant
Warlord and that dread Portal below the earth. I
must warn the humans in Kleinkastel: our Queen

plans to continue the illusion spell that conceals the
true nature of the Wood Elves. She will march the
entire tribe to meet the free humans, as if in
friendship, and then at the Warlord’s bidding the
Wood Elves will strike. Follow me; there is another
sentry at the foot of these stairs. He will suspect me
less than you.’

You follow the Elf down through the darkness;
when you emerge from the bottom of the tree into
the open forest, you find an Elven Slave Warrior
lying senseless on the leaf-strewn ground. The Elf
you saved has disappeared towards Kleinkastel,
and you decide to do likewise, but in the opposite
direction. Turn to 150.

314
If you have defeated Gloten, you find that heis nota
good loser. He refuses to shake your hand and
claims that he was not on his best form today, on
account ofa slight fever. He insists that despite your
performance you must still prove yourself in the
tournament. Turn to 52.

If you are the loser, turn to 389.

315
You twist the hilt of your sword, and the room fills
with steam as you apply the blade to the wall of ice.
Puddles grow on the flagstones as your sword slices
through the ice, and the door is soon revealed. You
push it open, step through, and close it behind you.

As-you secure it by sliding iron bolts into place, you
hear the Slave Warriors enter the ice room; they
cannot follow you now. You have time to eat a meal
from your Provisions and restore up to 4 points of
STAMINA. In front of you stretches a corridor lined
with torches. You walk towards the far end of it.
Turn to 372.

316

You find the old alchemist struggling with a pile of
small sacks. ‘There you are!’ he says. ‘I was begin-
ning to think you’d got stuck somewhere!’ His
laughter has a manic ring which disquiets you

‘When you’ve shifted all those nuggets, you can
give me a hand with these little sacks. Give me a
hand! That's a good one! Hee-hee-hee!’ It takes you
only a few more minutes to load all the nuggets into

the tank. ‘This is the second stage of the storage
process,’ Azudraz explains. ‘The powder in these
sacks is an invention of mine which I call Igneolite. It
will stop anyone getting into this building. If you'll
carry on placing sacks all round the walls of both
rooms, I‘ll organize the central fuse. Igneolite goes
to work when touched by fire. But when we and the
gold are safely tucked away in here, who will look
after the birds?’ Azudraz begins to weep.

You are becoming convinced that he is insane. As he
starts to connect the sacks together with paper
fuses, you take one of the small packages of
Igneolite and put it in your backpack. Then you
have to decide: will you leave now (turn to 45) or will
you continue to assist the old alchemist with his
scheme (turn to 361)?

317

Gloten enters the room, to find his secret treasure
cache opened and you struggling with the levers
that control the mechanism. He calls for his ser-
vants, and you are soon surrounded, ‘Brave and
clever as you are,’ he declares, ‘you are clearly an
unprincipled and ungrateful wretch. You have
abused my hospitality. I should turn you over to the
Margrave and his brutal form of justice; but you are
a strong warrior, and you deserve better than to rot
in a dungeon. Get out of my house; get out of
Kleinkastel. Go into the forest, where you may be
able to redeem yourself by combating this rising
evil. No doubt you will die, but at least it will be an
honourable death.’

There is nothing for you to do but obey. Turn to 268.

318

You stroll across the clearing, enjoying the feel of
soft grass beneath your feet. You reach the grove of
slender trees, and you stop in surprise as one by one
a dozen delicate, graceful forms run from between
the trees and form a circle round you. They are tall,
with dark brown skin, green hair, and green clothes
made of leaves. They look like Lignia, younger; they
are Dryads, tree-spirits, and they seek revenge for
your attack on their guardian. Their unsmiling elfin
faces close in. on you. You try to fight your way out,
but Dryads, like Lignia, are tough creatures. Your
attacks have little effect, and soon their thin fingers
are tearing at your body and gouging your face and
throat. There is no escape.

319

The uphill path rounds a bend, and you are looking
at the scene of a battle. The next hill, a little higher
than its neighbours, has been raised higher still by
the addition of an artificial mound on its summit.
The mound itself is crowned with an enormous
statue of a ferociously ugly being which you recog-
nize as a Goblin deity. The eight-armed statue,
seated but in a warlike pose, glitters in the sunlight
as if its surfaces were covered with gems. The
mound has doorways near its base, and is evidently
the home of a tribe of Goblins; they are on the
hiliside, defending their home against a band of
Troglodytes. These attackers are like no creatures
you have seen before, and you suspect that they
may come from the same source as the long-extinct
reptilian animals you have been encountering;
clearly, they live underground, as their skin and
hair are colourless, and their huge blank eyes are
not accustomed to sunlight. They walk upright and
use spiked clubs, but they are not truly humanoid:
their legs are scaly, and terminate in claws like a
bird’s, while their heads have bony crests. They are
bigger than the Goblins, and they are winning the
battle. Will you wait where you are until the fighting
is over (turn to 161), or will you advance towards the
fray (turn to 267)?

320

The monster and the Elf woman have fought off the
other soldier, whom you see limping away between
the trees. The monster is very badly wounded, and
seems to be near death. It is not surprising that you
have never seen anything like it before: it is a
Spinosaurus, an animal that became extinct millions
of years ago. You ask the Elf woman where it came
from, but it is the Spinosaurus itself that replies. ‘I
can speak for myself, warrior,’ it says. ‘I was once an
Elf, although I myself find it hard to believe. My
entire hunting party was captured by a horde of
cursed Slave Warriors. They took us underground,
and put us one by one through the dread Portal. All
my comrades were overcome, their willpower
broken, and they became mindless slaves of the
Portal, or of whoever controls it. I resisted; I would
not let my mind be wiped clean. [lost consciousness
and, when I awoke, I was—as you see me. There are
others like me. Many have gone mad. This foul
body I inhabit is, I believe, of a sort that is common
on the other side of the Portal; but only the Portal’s
slaves may go there. No one knows the extent of this
evil — except perhaps Gartax. But you must be gone;
the forest is a deadly place now.’

Will you hurriedly rejoin the path and continue
towards Kleinkastel (tur to 143); or will you try to
find out more about Gartax (turn to 74)?

321
Intent on dodging the acidic grubs that leap from
the Metamaggot’s body as you attempt to slice it
into fragments, you fail to notice that the noise of
your struggle has attracted spectators. You glance
up from your fight to see that a troop of the Mar-
grave’s soldiers have entered the tavern, They move
in to dispose of the Metamaggot, and then take you
prisoner. You are escorted outside at sword-point.
Turn to 255.

322
You enter the tangled vegetation of the jungle justin
time; you can hear the sound of marching feet on the
main path behind you, Surrounded by vast trees,
many of them strange, fern-headed cylinders of
mossy wood, you marvel at the bizarre creatures
that dart across your path: giant insects, spiked and
horned reptiles, and some furry and hairy animals
that resemble those of Khul. The path forks: the
right branch Jeads to a collection of tumble-down
stone buildings; the left branch leads up a hill from
which the jungle plants have been cleared, and on
top of which you can see a settlement of stone huts,
surrounded by a stone wall. Will you take the
right-hand path (turn to 245) or the left-hand path
{turn to 140)?

323

You open your backpack and give the Dwarf
enough food for a good meal. (Deduct 1 Provision
from your Adventure Sheet.) The Dwarf begins to
push chunks of dry bread into his mouth with
machine-like speed and regularity. When he slows
down he remembers to crumble some of the food for
his pet bird. Between mouthfuls he manages spurts
of conversation. ‘Been here since the early days of
the gold-diggings. Never known it so quiet. Time
was, we had nothing to worry about but the Goblins
and a few raiders from down south. Now there’s
beasts in the woods bigger than I’ve ever seen, and
things that come up to the door of a night and talk
with human voices — but they’re not human. And
them mad fighters with the shrivelled-up faces and
staring eyes! I keep myself locked in here. But if you
want to go off down the river, that’s your look-out.
Take whichever boat you like, and watch out for the
rapids — the skiffll break up for sure on the rocks,
and you'll be Jucky to get over in one piece even in
the punt.’

You thank him for the advice and go to untie a boat.
Make a note of which one you take. Turn to 227.

324
With the grace of a dancer, the woman steps to-
wards you, her ankle-chains clinking and a half-
smile on her lips. She stands in front of you and
raises her arms; suddenly with a clash of metal she
strikes her manacles together and, with a low, cat-

like roar, she attacks, using the loop of chain as a
flail aimed at your head. You jump back, perplexed.
The noise of her attack could attract unwanted
attention. Will you leave this room, bolt the door
once more, and continue along the corridor (turn to
364); or will you stay in the room, retreating from
the womans attacks while trying to calm her (turn
to 34)?

325
At the edge of the platform, you look down to see
the rope-ladder rolling itself upwards towards you.
You cannot descend from the platform. Behind you,
Lignia has recommenced her incantation. Will you
wait until she finishes it (turn to 381); or will you
silence her by attacking her (turn to 16)?

326
As you follow it towards its source, the stream
becomes a trickle and eventually disappears in an
overgrown dell. Ahead of you the terrain is hilly,
and the forest undulates towards the mountains,
which now seem close. You stand under the canopy
of a tree, uncertain whether to go on or turn back.
Raindrops drip through the leaves on to your hair
and clothing. And then you remember: no rain is
falling. You look up; the liquid is issuing from large
purple blooms at the top of the tree. A drop falls on
to your outstretched hand: it is sticky, and it stings.
You are beneath the branches of a carnivorous
Graptor Tree; the liquid is poisonous and slows

your reactions. The earth moves beneath your feet,
and woody fingers of root reach through the soil to
encircle your legs and draw nutrients from your
flesh. You must fight these moving roots; because of
the poison, you must deduct 1 point from your
SKILL each Attack Round until the fight is over.

GRAPTOR TREE

I{ you win, you can crawl away from the overhang-
ing branches and recover from the effects of the
poison. Your SKIL returns to normal. Will you now
retrace your steps along the bank of the rivulet and
follow it downstream (turn to 57) or advance
through the forest towards the wooded hills (turn to
22)?

SKILL 5 STAMINA 9

327

As you wander about the village and chat with the
soldiers, it becomes clear that they do not know
exactly what they are searching for. Some say Gob-
lins, others bandits and renegade miners, while the
sergeant seems intent on finding what he calls
‘unnatural and abominable beasties’. A small rep-
tilian creature is found and slaughtered; an argu-
ment breaks out over a sty full of pigs, with some
soldiers wanting to take them home for bacon,
while others insist on killing them at once in case
they are possessed by demons. All the soldiers are
very disgruntled because they can find no gold or
other valuables.

Eventually they march off into the forest. Do you

continue your eastward journey (turn to 12); or do
you decide to stay in the village a little longer and
search it quickly yourself (turn to 303)?

328
Something heavy strikes your skull. A pain ex-
plodes inside your head; and then you feel nothing
at all as you fall into unconsciousness. Deduct -4
points from your STAMINA. If you are still alive,
eventually you wake up. Your head throbs; you feel
sick. You are moving, lurching from side to side.
You are being carried — you must be over someone’s
shoulder, as your head seems to be swinging very
close to marching feet. You make no sign that you
have come to your senses, and you try surrepti-
hously to look from side to side. You are being
carried along a gloomy corridor by one of a squad of
Slave Warriors. They reach a wide, light area, where
you are thrown on to the stone floor. You wince
with pain, but manage to stifle a cry. You look
sideways, across the floor, and see massive reptilian
eyes staring at you froma nightmare head as big asa
cart and only a few yards away. It is the head of a
Tyrannosaurus, the most feared of all dinosaurs; its
mouth gapes to reveal rows of long thin fangs, each
the size of a sword — and as sharp. You are close to
the rim of the pit, a pikestaff’s depth, in which it is
kept; the Slave Warriors are about to throw you in as
a snack for the monster. Will you try to jump up and
run away (turn to 219); or shout for help (turn to 98);
or continue pretending to be unconscious (turn to

305)?

.

-

=

329
There is a liquid noise in the depths of the cave, and
a wide black membrane flaps towards you, unroll-
ing like a glistening carpet. It slaps against you with
such speed that for a moment you are sure you will
be knocked into the water; but the black surface is
covered with thick gum, and you stick to it. You are
pulled into the darkness of the cave, where you see
two huge round eyes and, beneath them, a gaping
mouth. The black membrane is the creature’s
tongue; you are its breakfast. This huge toad-like
monster is a Stegocephalian; you have never seen
anything like it before. You struggle to free your
sword-arm before you can be folded between the
loose-skinned jaws. Roll one die. Make a note of the
number that you roll. If you roll a 6, turn to 3. If you
roll 4 or 5, turn to 301. If you roll 1, 2 or3, turn to 207.

339
‘What's this?’ Horfak hisses as you push the mirror
in front of his eyes. ‘You have the audacity to bring
this thing .. .’ His voice fades as he stares at his
own reflection. He moves a hand up to his face and
touches the distended flesh. A low moan issues
from his swollen lips, and his body seems to shrink
as he stumbles backwards. The black lightning fal-
ters and then disappears from his arms. Horfak
clutches his great head between his hands, and
shouts into the air: ‘What have you done to me? You

didn’t tell me it would get worse! I won’t be part of
you any more. Leave me! Get out of my brain! No!
No - not that! No —’ Horfak’s voice is cut off and his
body stiffens. His eyes stare ahead and his limbs
begin to move in the mechanical manner of the
Slave Warriors. Horfak has been taken over by the
Portal. You hear the People cheer as the Slave
Warriors, no longer helped by Horfak’s will, be-
come slower and easier to fight; you face what
remains of Horfak.

HORFAK

If you win this fight, the victorious People hail you
as their hero. But you know that the Portal still
exists. To save Khul you must try to destroy it. You
make for the Sacred Cave. Turn to 369.

SKILL 8 STAMINA 10

331

The game is very simple: the bandits take your
sword, and scratch a mark on the flat of one side of
the blade. The bandits’ own swords are already
marked in the same way. Their leader will hold all
six swords in his two hands and hurl them into the
air. Before doing so, he drops your Gold Pieces into
a large sack.

“We count the number of marked sides that land
uppermost,’ he says, ‘and the number of unmarked
sides. If there are more marked sides, we keep the
sack — and what's in it. If there are more unmarked,
you keep it and the money inside it.’ You ask what
happens if there are the same number of marked

and unmarked sides. ‘Why, we play again!’ shouts
the bandit leader. ‘We increase the stakes, we put
more in the sack, and we play again”

Roll one die six times. lf you roll more odd numbers
than even, turn to 157; if more even than odd, turn
to 248; if you roll three odd and three even, turn to
121.

332

You put your torch to the top of the sack, then step
back as a cloud of Igneolite powder surrounds the
huge stone blocks. You hear a hissing, bubbling
noise as the dust begins to turn the Portal into
molten rock — but then flashes of black lightning
crackle round the stones, and the Igneolite powder
drifts to the ground. A figure appears on the other
side of the stone gateway — humanoid, but with a
huge, bulbous blob of a head. Its voice echoes round
the cave. ‘A foolish attempt. lam Horfak, Warlord,
and soon to be Emperor of all Khul. Iam the Portal’s
chosen vessel of power: while I live, the Portal
cannot be destroyed. Come! Come through the
Portal; come and join my invincible army. Put down
your weapon; put down your flame; put down your
possessions. Enter; and surrender to my will.’

You try to resist, but cannot. You end your life as a
Slave Warrior.

—_———s

EE

333
The camp, which occupies a large clearing, is a

collection of old tents and rickety wooden shelters
nhuddling round a central enclosure where pack-
animals are tethered, Sentries stand guard outside
the circle of shelters, while others sit in the branches
of the surrounding trees. They look tense and tired.

You are taken to the animal fodder tent and, stil
bound, are thrown on toa heap of straw. You try to
make yourself comfortable, You doze.

You are woken by the sounds of conflict. The camp
has been attacked. You can make out nothing except
that the battle is fierce - and going against the
defenders. Suddenly a sword slices through the
canvas of your prison. A warrior strides in and
surveys the interior of the tent. He is thin and
grey-complexioned, and is dressed in rags. He says
nothing, and you notice that his face is blank -
almost literally featureless, as if his nose and mouth
had shrunk. If you want to try to attract his atten-
tion, turn to 193. If you decide to keep still, turn
to 46.

334
You follow Anxis into the corridor and up a flight of

stairs. You emerge into a wide corridor: you are in
front of a big wooden door guarded by two of the
largest Slave Warriors you have yet seen. ‘This is the
entrance to Horfak’s chamber,’ says Anxis. ‘All we
have to do is dispose of these two buffoons, and

then he is ours! I'll take this one that looks like a
cross between an Orc and a Cave Giant; you deal
with the musclebound military type.’ With a feroc-
ity that would unnerve any opponent other than a
Slave Warrior, Anxis launches herself at the huge
guard. You advance on the other, who was once in
the Maregrave’s elite infantry regiment.

SLAVE WARRIOR
GUARD

If you win the fight, you turn to see that Anxis has
drawn her opponent away and is still involved in a
furious battle. You turn back to the door, take a deep
breath, and prepare to face Horfak. You push open
the door, and walk through. Turn to 395.

SKILL 9 STAMINA 12

335
The Elves make no move to stop you as you reach

into your backpack and find the phial of potion. You
drink the bitter liquid, look around — and almost fall
to your death as you stagger with shock, The nar-
row path along which the Elves’ column marches is
indeed winding between the forest trees — but the
path is a magical, silvery ribbon that snakes up-
wards, through the treetops, towards the upper
branches of the tall tree with lights in its branches.
For a few moments you are lost in the wonder and
beauty of the scene; then you tum to the Elf behind
you and stifle a gasp of horror and fear. The appear-
ance of the Elves is an illusion; the potion allows you
to see them as they really are: thin, pallid, ragged

travesties of Elves, with blank eyes and mechanical
movements, each wearing a shadow-shrouded
stone talisman round his neck. They are all Slave
Warriors. But you cannot escape now - the jump to
the forest floor would mean your death. You must
pretend that you are still deceived by their illusion,
and escape at the first opportunity. Turn to 217.

336
Waving your sword in the Goblins’ general direc-
tion, you use your other hand to fumble in your
pack, eventually extricating the letter from the Gob-
lin King. Displaying the unfurled scroll at arm’s
length, you approach the Goblins,

At first they are suspicious. It seems that only one of
them knows how to read. They talk among them-
selves and become very excited — but you know oni
a few words of their language and you cannot
understand what they are saying. Using signs and
hand-movements, they tell you that they want you
to wait here while they take the letter to show to
their leader. If you let them borrow the letter, turn to
29. If you refuse to part with the letter, the Goblins
become very angry. You can attack them (turn to
282) or simply turn on your heel and walk away
towards the riverside path (turn to 187).
4

337
Your jump takes you clear of the Giant Centipede’s
long body and erect tail. Before the creature can
tum, you run out of the gully and into the jungle.
Turn to 9.

338

The Scurrellors chase you, and you feel a knife-
blade slice across your back. Lose 2 points from your
STAMINA. In the forest you can outdistance your
pursuers on the ground, but they take to the trees,
jumping and swinging from branch to branch, and
are able to keep up with you as well as pelt you with
a steady rain of nuts and twigs. Eventually they tire
of this activity, and you stop running. You try to
orientate yourself; you think you have been running
in a south-easterly direction. You are on a narrow
trail that will take you further in the same direction,
so you continue along it. Turn to 100.

339
Gloten shakes your hand. ‘Not bad, my friend,’ he

says, ‘but not good enough. You are not to be the
chosen Champion. But I implore you to stay with
us; there is much to be done, and an amny to be
recruited. We need brave adventurers such as you.’

You are bitterly disappointed that you have failed in
the tournament, and you are determined to prove
your worth. You reply that you always travel and
fight alone, and that you would not be of any help as

part of an army. As you stride towards the town
gate, you make up your mind that, Champion or
not, you will enter the forest to hunt for the Warlord
of the Slave Warriors, Turn to 268.

340
Your will snaps. You scream in anguish and despair
as you feel your memories being stripped away . . -
and then you feel nothing at all. You cease to exist.
You are a Slave Warrior, a mindless minion of the
Warlord of the Portal.

341

You approach the darkness under the stairs. The
edge of cloth that you saw looks less and less like a
piece of carpet. Loose threads hanging from it are
moving, as if in a draught of air - but you cannot
detect a draught. And then the whole thing begins
to slide towards you, and you see that it is a
Dourma, a rare subterranean creature that you have
heard described on Khul. It is nothing more than a
flat expanse of flesh, with hundreds of tendrils on
both sides; those on the underside serve as legs and
feelers, while those on the upper surface have
evolved into borers, cutters and suckers with which
the Dourma kills, dissects and ingests its prey. It
scuttles towards you, attracted by the heat of your
body, and you prepare to defend yourself. You do
not fight it for long, however; a squad of Slave
Warriors has followed you down the stairs. Taking
advantage of your distraction, they capture you,
knock you senseless again, and carry you back to be
a meal for the Tyrannosaurus. This time there is no
escape.

~~” ean 6 oon I

<\

~ “ Py <a = » < »
aa “4
_-_ ee a)
‘i Monte

‘i

a

342
Whatever Gluda was before she was. . . changed,
she is now a Dromaeosaurus, one of the smallest of
the long-extinct carnivorous dinosaurs. As you
draw your sword the Dwarf steps back, and you
face your terrible opponent's grasping talons, rend-
ing claws and fang-filled mouth.

DROMAEOSAURUS SkKILL10 STAMINA 10

If you succeed in reducing Gluda’s stAMINA to 2
points, she and the Dwarf will run away, leaving
you in possession of both sword and backpack.
There is nothing for you to do now but settle down
again on the hard ground, and drift back into sleep.
Turn to 380.

343
The two Goblin warriors eye you with suspicion as

you approach; by the time you have dragged the
dead Troglodytes to the hilltop mound, however,
they understand that you have helped them by
killing their enemies. They hold up their short-
swords in salute, and you wave to theminreply. On
the top of the mound, the grotesque statue towers
above the Goblins, and you can now see that its
scintillation is caused not by precious jewels but by
murrors — thousands of fragments of reflective glass
have been embedded in the statue’s surface. You
are disappointed, but you climb the mound and join
the Goblins at the base of the idol. Shards of mirror
are scattered on the ground; if you want to, you can

pick one up and place it in your backpack. The
Goblins are grateful to you and indicate that they
will reward you for your help; but before they can
do so, a wild howling fills the air as the surviving
Troglodytes return to the attack. Turn to 203.

344
Nothing can stand between the People and their

Queen. With you at their head, they hack a path to
the cage. While your comrades repel waves of Slave
Warriors, you cut through the wooden bars and
release Queen Anxis.’ One of her subjects throws
her a sword and, with a howl of glee, she hurls
herself into the fray. Soon all the remaining Slave
Warriors are slain, and the People are celebrating,
singing and dancing — but the Warlord has escaped.

In the Sacred Cave, the Portal still pulses with evil
life; through it you can see into the cavern, deep
underground in Khul, where Slave Warriors stand
on guard. The torch that you left has been removed,
as has any Igneolite that you might have hidden
next to the Portal. The Warlord is in Khul, leading
his slave armies on a campaign of destruction.
Kleinkastel will be only the first of many towns to
fall. You are a hero among the People of the forgot-
ten world, but you have failed in your mission.

345

You start to walk past the black figure but, as you do
so, it moves, like a ripple passing across still water,
and it extends towards you an arm thatis paper-thin
but as dark as night. You hear a voice like a whisper
in your brain: ‘Tf you will not pay in gold, | will take
my fee by other means.’ The arm reaches for you.
Will you attack the strange figure (turn to 306), or
stand still and let it touch you (turn to 141)?

346
You defend yourself furiously, but begin to suffer
some serious blows. Deduct 4 points from your
STAMINA. If you survive this attack, you stumble
backwards, fending off the spiked tips of half a
dozen clubs, and you glance at the Goblins. One is
already lying motionless at the feet of a Troglodyte,
while the other has been bludgeoned to his knees
and is surrounded by three more of the brutal
creatures. A club strikes the death-blow; but even as
he collapses, the Goblin mouths the last syllable of
his incantation — and the ground trembles beneath
your feet. The vast statue is moving; you look
upwards, and see the eight stone arms begin to
swing towards the ground. Chunks of masonry fall
round you as the idol’s head leans forward, its great
staring eyes now moving, searching for prey. The
statue has come to life. The Troglodytes are frozen
with fear and, as the monstrous hands descend,
four of them are plucked from the ground and
squeezed to death while being swept aloft. You start

to run; looking back, you see that none of the
Troglodytes had the wits to escape as you did. On
unsteady feet you retrace your steps along the hill-
side path and return to the forest. Turn to 144.

347
There seems to be nothing unusual about Gloten’s

huge chair. The intricate carvings contain no hidden
meanings, and the plinth on which it stands
appears to be solid. Beneath the cushions on the
seat you find a small mirror, which you can put in
your backpack.

You are tempted to sit down in the chair. If you wish
to do so, turn to 55. Otherwise you have nothing to
do but await Gloten’s return — turn to 211

The path in the valley follows the course ofa stream.
Where the valley ends, with stony ridges converg-
ing to tower above you, the stream runs downintoa
narrow ravine. Following the stream, you splash
along the cool dell, hidden from the sun by the
overarching cliffs and the branches of enormous
ferns. At a point where the stream and the ravine
turn sharply to the left, a track branches from it and
zigzags up the face of the right-hand slope. Will you
follow, the stream (turn to 4) or the uphill path (turn
to 358)? :

349
You extend your hand, revealing the inscribed sur-

face of the silver ring. A cone of white light spreads
from your hand and envelops the Slave Warrior
who stops, frozen, Then he moves, as if pushing
against a wali, and the cone of light begins to fade.
The Slave Warrior looks like a Zombie, but he is not
of the undead; the ring’s effect on him is limited, but
it has slowed him, allowing you an opportunity to
act. Will you use this breathing-space to attack the
warnor (turn to 379) or will you run out of the
clearing along the eastward path (turn to 264)?

350

You awake at dawn, roused by the shouts of your
fellow-warriors as they prepare for the dinosaur-
hunt. Out on the streets, you find young townsfolk
~men, women, and all the other races that make up
the mixed tribe of the People - sharpening their
weapons, daubing their faces with war-paint, and
adorning their hair and clothes with multi-coloured
ribbons and feathers. Soon you are part of the
exuberant procession that leaves the town, de-
scending the hill and skirting the jungle, and that
then marches out across the open grasslands in
search of a dinosaur.

Dinosaurs are not hard to find. The scouts are soon
scurrying back to the main hunting party to report
that they have spotted a suitably challenging target.
You are brought to the front of the column to look it
over. It is a Triceratops: each of its four legs is as tall

as a man, and its head is equally long. Standing
guard over a clutch of its eggs, the huge horned
herbivore is the size of a small house. The warriors
indicate that you must advance to fight it alone. Will
you do so (turn to 251); or will you challenge the
customs of the People by refusing to attack the
dinosaur (turn to 35)?

i Ie

You swing your sword and sever the bird’s neck. As
the great body crashes to the ground in a flurry of
feathers, the man draws his knife from his belt. ‘You
verminous wretch!’ he screams at you. ‘You’ve mur-
dered Agrid! He used to be the best miner down
Dirlin’s pit! 1 don’t know what you're doing here but
Tintend to find out. Now - surrender or die!’

Will you sheathe your sword and surrender (turn
to 33); or will you attack the man with the knife
(turn to 204)?

352

You wait for a few minutes, then try once again to
extract your arm. It is no use; your arm is as fixed as
the nuggets on the floor of the tank. You realize now
why Azudraz has only one arm —he must have lost
the other conducting experiments with this strange
liquid. There is a hatchet resting against the wall. It
is just within your reach. Whatever you do, your
adventure ends here.

353
‘From these reports,’ muses the wizard, ‘it seems

that the gravest threat to all living things in the
forest is the appearance of these eldritch warriors:
humans, Goblins, Elves, Dwarfs, all transformed
into mindless, murderous reavers. They are clearly
not exactly like Zombies; nevertheless, for a warrior
such as yourself, this might prove useful.’ He ex-
tends his hand, and on his upturned palm appears a
silver ring. It has no jewel, but instead a flattened
face on which is engraved a series of delicate letters.
‘Take it!’ says the wizard. ‘Wear it on a finger. The
letters are an abbreviation of a spell to ward off
Zombies. It may help you when you face one of
these mind-enslaved warriors. Now, then: tell what
you have seen for yourself in your wanderings.’

You tell the wizard about the unusual creatures you
have come across, and the stories you have heard
about talking animals and depopulated settle-
ments. Turn to 234.

‘What's this?’ Horfak hisses as you push the mirror
in front of his eyes. ‘You dare to bring this
thing . . .” His voice fades as he stares at his own
reflection. He moves a hand up to his face and
touches the distended flesh. A low moan issues
from his twisted lips, and his whole body seems to
shrink as he stumbles backwards. The lines of black

lightning falter, then disappear. Horfak drops the
mirror and clutches his great head between his
hands. He shouts into the air: ‘What have you done
to me? You didn’t say it would get worse! I won't be
part of this any more! I wan't be a part of you! Leave
me! Get out of my brain! No! No — not that! No —’
Horfak's voice is cut off, and his body goes rigid. His
eyes stare straight ahead, and then his limbs begin
to move in the mechanical manner of the Slave
Warriors. Horfak himself has been taken over by the
Portal. It forces him to draw his two-handed sword,
and advance towards you.

HORFAK SKILL 8

If you defeat him, turn to 170.

STAMINA 10

355
You are a scoundrel as well as a thief. Evil-doers

have little to fear from you — you're joining their
side! You may keep your ill-gotten Gold Pieces, but
the gods frown on you; reduce ull your Initial scores
by 1 point. Now turn to 61.

You are approaching the centre of the evil. Scurry-
ing uphill between bushes and boulders, you hide
from the bands of Slave Warriors who march past
you, down into the forest. Some of the mind-
enslaved humans are in an appalling condition: as
thin as skeletons, their skin grey and flaking, their
faces featureless except for dark, staring eyes. Many
of these war-parties include captured animals, huge
reptilian creatures armed not only with teeth and
claws but also with spikes, horns, armoured plates
of bone, and clubbed tails. You reach another large
rock, and peer over it. The path enters a compound
which is surrounded by a high fence of pointed
stakes. Above the gate are the names ‘Horfak and
Dirlin’. Outside the fence and next to the gate stand
two guards. You sit behind the rock to consider your
next move. Do you have an egg in your backpack? If
you do, turn to 272. If you do not, turn to 388,

357
With a dull clang your sword lands on a pile of old

blades, sending up a cloud of reddish-brown dust.
Reduce your SKILL by 4 points until you acquire
another weapon and turn to 97.

358
As you climb out of the shadowed ravine and up the
steep, barren, rocky hillside, the heat of the sun is
like a weight laid across your neck and shoulders.
The uphill path seems to go on for ever, zigzagging
across the slope. You drag yourself round another
bend, past a huge boulder, and then stop. Basking
in the sun’s rays, and completely blocking the path,
is one of the gigantic reptiles that inhabit this
Strange land. This one is an Ankylosaurus, an
armoured monster as big as a barn. It glares at you; it
has no intention of moving. You consider its homed
head, the iron-hard scales of its back, the spikes that
run along its flanks, and the idly swinging club of
bone at the end of its powerful tail. You cannot
continue unless you can make it move. Will you
attack it (turn to §4); or, if you have Provisions, will
you toss some food down the slope to entice the
beast to move (turn to 116)?

Hugging one wall of the empty first-floor room is a
stone staircase that leads toa trapdoor in the ceiling.
You assume that this provides access to the second
Storey of the tower. If you decide to climb the
staircase and push up the trapdoor, turn to 26g. If
not, turn to 109.

360

Witta returns with a plate of food. If you want to eat
it, you can restore up to 4 points of STAMINA if you
need to. She continues her story. ‘Horfak is unlike
other men. The gateway in the Sacred Cave has
changed him horribly. He is bigger and stronger
than ordinary men, and his will controls the Slave
Warriors. And ever since he arrived here, his face
has been changing into ever more loathsome
shapes. He has become mad: he has ordered all
mirrors to be destroyed, as he cannot bear to see his
own features, even accidentally; and he claims
kingship of this world and over all the People. Our
Queen, Anxis, defied him; he has taken her captive.
Now, at last, he has sent his armies out of our land,
through the Sacred Cave; we are thankful, but I fear
for the tribes of Otherworld. We are suspicious of
you because, since Horfak, nothing good has come
through the gateway in the Sacred Cave. Tonight,
however, you will be tested in the Ordeal, and we
will discover your worth.’ She picks up the plate,
and leaves. This time she remembers to lock the
door. You have no choice but to wait in your prison.
Turn to 110.

361
The wotk is soon completed: the small sacks of
Igneolite are placed at regular intervals, resting
against the walls of the two rooms in the stone
building; from each sack runs a strip of paper to act
as a fuse. You realize that Azudraz has arranged the

fuses so that they meet in the centre of his work-
room. You are about to suggest that he should run
the fuse-paper through the door and light it from
outside the building, when you see him advancing,
with a flaming torch, towards the central fuse. ‘And
now, my loyal friend,’ he exults, ‘we will keep all
our gold, for ourselves, for ever!’ You try to stop
him, and he attacks you, using the torch as a
weapon. It inflicts 2 points of STAMINA loss
whenever he wounds you with it. Each time he does
so, roll one die; if you roll a 6, your clothing catches
alight; once it has done so, you must deduct an
additional 1 point from your SrAMINA each combat
round until the fight ends.

AZUDRAZ SKILL 5

If you survive and defeat the mad alchemist, he
drops the torch. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 284; if you are Unlucky, turn to 127.

STAMINA 8

362
‘Gloten? It cheers me up just to think of the fellow.
He’s a wealthy man now, of course - they say he
could match the Margrave himself, coin for coin and
gem for gem. But he’s laboured for his riches, not
like some of thuse thieving merchants down from
Neuburg. Through the trees, do you see the moun-
tains in the east? Gloten’s done his share of grub-
bing under them - and now he owns some of the
best gold-bearing soil in the whole of Khul. [know a
few secrets about old Gloten ~ like where he keeps

his personal hoard of gems. And I know something

else he doesn’t like spread about: the fact that he’s a
Dwarf. It’s true. Every other mine-owner and gold-
merchant in Kleinkastel is as human as J am, and
Gloten knew they wouldn't accept a Dwarf inte
their circle: So he shaved off his beard and bought
himself some built-up boots — and the only people
who know are we miners who've dug alongside
him. A word of advice: if you ever want anything
from Gloten, challenge him to a pickaxe-handle
fight. He can’tresist it. Let him win, mind! And then
tell him he’s got the strength of a Dwarf! Then he'll
do anything for you.’

You thank Gartax for the advice. Do you ask him
about the secret of Gloten’s treasure (turn to 241)?
Or ask Gartax if there is anyone else who can heip
him and his followers (turn to 185)?

363
A troop of the Margrave’s infantry marches towards
you along the path. They are led by a sergeant who
halts his men next to you and asks you your busi-
ness. Without waiting to hear your reply, he barks:
‘Never mind about that. I've got no time to listen to
your excuses. I’ve got to search this here village.
You come with us.’ You are escorted into the village
at sword-point. Turn to 255.

364

A flight of stairs ascends from the left-hand side of
the corridor, but you pass it in order to peer round
the next corner. You see another length of corridor;
there are no cells, and the walls are blank, but at the
end there is an open door, and beyond it, a well-lit
room. You start to walk towards the door. A low,
slow voice calls out, “Who’s there?’ and through the
doorway plods a Dwarven Slave Warrior with a
bunch of keys at“his belt. You assume he is the
gaoler. He stares at you, then turms and marches
swiftly back into the room. You give chase. You
reach the doorway in time to see the Dwarf running
up a set of stairs. You follow him and emerge into a
wide corridor. The Dwarf has disappeared; you are
in front of a big wooden door guarded by two of the
largest Slave Warriors you have yet seen. You have
found the Warlord’s chamber — and now you must
fight his bodyguards. One is half Orc, half Cave
Giant; the other was in the Margrave’s elite infantry
regiment. They advance on you one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
First SLAVE WARRIOR 6 14
Second SLAVE WARRIOR 9 12

If you defeat them, you must now push open the
door and face the Warlord himself. Turn to 395.

365

There are fissures in the face of the cliff that serve as
hand- and foot-holds; but the cliff is both high and
steep, and the climb will tax your strength and
staying power. Add together your SKILL and
STAMINA; roll one die six times. [f the total of the
die-rolls is equal to or less than your SKILL and
STAMINA combined, turn to 196. Otherwise,
deduct your SKILL and sTAMINA total from the
die-roli total, make a note of the result, and tum
to 288.

366

You clamber upwards from branch to branch until
you reach the rope-ladder; you use this to complete
your ascent to the wooden structure that you could
see from the ground. It isa platform constructed out
of whole branches lashed together with creepers

You reach the platform and peer over the edge. At
first sight it looks empty; then a strange being steps
forward from next to the tree’s trunk. She is very tall
and thin, with wrinkled brown skin and brown hair

Her clothes are made of brown leaves and, when
you look closely, you are sure that at least some of
the leaves are attached to her—as if they had grown
from her arms and fingers and head. She looks old
and stern, but her voice is gentle and sorrowful.
‘Come up, stand with me on my guard-post. I am
Lignia; my duty is to protect the forest. What of
you?’

You pull yourself on to the platform. If you have a
weapon, turn to 182. If not, turn to 243.

367
You launch yourself at the Half-Goblin guard.
HALF-GOBLIN

You fight four rounds of combat. If you defeat the
guard within this time, turn to 195. If not, turn to

SKILL 7 STAMINA 7

368

Bandits from the south have a strict code of honour,
part of which is to fulfil a promise. On the other
hand, another part of it is to avenge the death of a
slaughtered comrade. As you tug your sword from
Kran’s crumpled corpse, the other bandits attack
you, screaming curses. It is four against one; you
cannot win this fight.

369
The torch that you hid in a cleft near the cave
entrance is still there. It has burnt away almost to
nothing, but a glowing fragment remains. You blow
on it and manage to coax a flame into life. You enter
the cave. Before you stands the Portal, its black
stones glowing with malignant force. You have
passed through it once, and it cannot harm you
directly now; but you know that if you return to
Khul, vast armies of Slave Warriors stand between

you and Kleinkastel. If you have left a sack of
Igneolite resting against the foot of one of the mega-
liths, turn to 253; if not, turn to 89.

370

For a few minutes the forest is silent. Then an army
of scarecrows lurches into the clearing. Once they
were miners, and southern tribesmen, and Goblins;
now they are mindless Slave Warriors, thin and
pallid, wearing filthy rags, with no sounds coming
from their lipless shrunken mouths and no ex-
pression in their staring eyes.

The camp-dwellers are petrified with fear. You
scream at them to start fighting, and as the bow-
strings twang the battle for Gartax’s camp begins.

Itis a long and bloody business. The attackers are as
untrained as most of the defenders, and you find
that by running from one mélée to another you can
use your expertise to push back the zombie-like
horde whenever it threatens to break into the camp.
The defensive line holds, but the Slave Warriors do
not retreat. The swordplay continues until all the
attackers are dead: a wall of corpses round the
camp. Many of Gartax’s people are wounded, and
some are dead; you personally have come through
without a scratch.

If you decide to search the bodies of some of the
attackers, turn to 200. If not, turn to 169.

371
You enter a narrow chamber carved out of the rock.

By the light from the doorway behind you, you see
that one side of the room is lined with long shelves,
and that the shelves are occupied by hundreds of
caged birds. There are more cages than you can
count, and each has one, two or three little birds
fluttering and trilling inside. Next to you is a sack of
seeds and a tub of water, but the little metal cups for
food and water inside the cages are all empty. You
notice two particularly small cages: each contains a
tiny bird, one with red plumage, the other blue.
Both cages would fit inside your backpack, and you
can feed these two birds and then pack them in with
your other possessions if you want to. You then
either leave the mine (tum to 5), or you decide that
you will undertake the laborious task of releasing all
the birds from their cages (turn to 240).

hi! iy :
ty tgs Li, pee
ti Ny y

372
As you walk along the corridor, it becomes clear that
you are entering a section of the cellars that has been
built as a prison. You pass several open doors and,
when you look inside the small rooms, you see that
they are designed to hold captives. Each has only a
narrow bed and a single chair for furniture; chains
hang from iron rings set into the walls. You come to
a closed door; you uncover the spy-hole and peer
through. The prisoner in this cell is an enormous
Brown Bear ~ the biggest you have ever seen. It
is muzzled, and its paws are enclosed in leather
covers, presumably to prevent it scratching any-
thing; but the strangest thing about it is that it is
wearing the costume of a circus clown: a pointed
hat, a satin tunic, and ballooning pantaloons, all
decorated with coloured frills and pompoms. You
jook up: on the plaster of the cell's ceiling you can
make out the words: I always said you were a bit of a
clown! Ha ha! Will you unbolt the cell door and walk
in (turn to 108); or will you continue along the
corridor (turn to 295)?

For some seconds after your shout has been carried
away by the wind, the seated figure remains
motionless. Then, slowly, it stands and turns.
Facing you across the barren hilltop is a massive
Carnivorous Ape. You notice first its pointed teeth
and its long arms corded with muscle; then you start
to wonder why the beast is wearing a black cloak. In
its eyes you detect a strange intelligence and deep
melancholy. You are hardly surprised when il be-
gins to speak. ‘A human! Was a human. What's a
human? Hairy, hairy, beastly. Eat ‘em raw! Trickle
of blood, down the chin, hairy. Where’s the chin?
Was a human, human.’ The huge ape continues in
this manner for some time.

You can make no sense of it, but you decide that
with dusk approaching you do not want to share
this hilltop with a demented Carnivorous Ape. Will
you attack it (turn to 163) or speak to it and ask it to
go away (turn to 238)?

374
The extinguished torch drops from your numbed

fingers. You twist and turn in a frenzy, trying to
fend off the chill tendrils of shadow with your one
remaining flame. But you cannot face in every direc-
tion at once, and the darkness deepens round you,
smothering you in the cold blackness of death and
decay. Like your torch, your life is snuffed out.

375
One of the soldiers attacks the wounded monster

while the other defends himself against a desperate
onslaught from the Elf woman. Within a few min-
utes the battle is over, the only survivor one of the
soldiers. He notices you and raises his sword again,
but you hold up your hands to show that you do not
intend to fight.

‘Pity about Sig,’ says the soldier. ‘Still, we managed
to deal with this horrible beast. Can't imagine why
that Elf was so bothered about it. Stranger in these
parts, are you? I should clear off sharpish if I was
you. There’s weird monsters of all sorts wandering
about the forest these days. Some of them can talk,
they do say, and come out with some cock-and-bull
story, trying to make out they’re ordinary folk that
have been changed into unnatural monsters by
some stone gateway underground. I ask you, who’d
believe a tale like that? They’re all obviously pos-
sessed by demons. We do our best to hunt them
down, but there seems to be more of them about
than ever. Anyway, I can’t hang around here, got to
rejoin my unit.’

The soldier tramps off, and you return to the path.
Will you continue south-westwards towards
Kleinkastel (turn to 143), or will you turn left off the
path and explore the forest towards the east {turn

376
During the night, you hear the door open. You keep

still, pretending to be asleep, as two Elves, moving
with the mechanical stiffness that reveals them to be
Slave Warriors, enter the room. They are carrying a
blanket that shines with a luminous glow in the
darkness, and they drape it over you and then
leave. The blanket is very welcome: it is warm and
comfortable. But you cannot stop worrying about
the fact that the Elves looked like Slave Warriors;
and the blanket is almost too relaxing. You find it
hard to move your limbs. With a huge effort, you
throw the luminous thing off the bed. You realize
that it was magical; you are helplessly weak, but
gradually, as you sit shivering on the bed, you
recover your strength. Your limbs will feel shaky for
several days, however: deduct 1 point from your
Initial SKILt for the rest of this adventure. You must
try to get out of this hut. Turn to 177.

' 377
Although your eyes are accustomed by now to the

gloom inside the cave, it is difficult to make out
whether it contains anything other than the massive
carcass of the beast you have just slain. You pick up
a few sticks, and drop them quickly when you
realize that they are the bleached bones of the
monster's past meals. You notice something gleam-
ing, and discover a Gold Piece; after a while you find
another. The search is taking too long. You emerge
from the cave and resume following the path beside
the stream. Turn to 15.

378

The short flight of stairs ends at a closed door. You
push this open, to reveal a long, wide, empty corti-
dor. You are in the Warlord’s palace. You can hear
no sounds at all. You tiptoe along the corridor in the
direction that you hope leads to the centre of the
building. You cross other corridors, equally silent
and empty. You pass open doors that show large,
bare rooms. You turn a corner — and come face to
face with two Slave Warriors, on guard in front of a
closed door. These Slave Warriors are big; they are
the Warlord’s bodyguards. Before succumbing to
the power of the Portal, one was from the Mar-
grave’s elite infantry, and the other was half Orc,
half Cave Giant. You know it will be a difficult fight,
and you are debating whether or not to retreat when
the door opens to reveal the Warlord — and you are
rooted to the spot by the hideous appearance of his
distorted, bloated head, swaying like a vast balloon
on his wide shoulders. In that instant the Slave
Warriors strike, and the Warlord assails you with
mental attacks as his guards drive home their
advantage. You cannot escape. Your adventure
ends here.

379

Your blow crashes into the Slave Warrior's unpro-
tected torso. He merely staggers backwards, utter-
ing no sound. Then he is free of the rig’s influence
and raises his scimitar. You see the Struthiomimus
pacing around in the clearing, and you realize that if
you try to run away now the warrior can instruct the
creature to catch you. You must fight.

SLAVE WARRIOR SKILL 6

If you win, you can stay in the clearing to search the
body (turn to 160), or leave immediately along the
eastward path (turn to 264).

STAMINA 5

380

At the base of the town wall darkness still reigns,
but the pointed rooftops of Kleinkastel are gilded
with the first rays of the morning sun. You wake up
groaning, your body cold and stiff. You are also very
hungry. [f you do not eat, you will lose 4 points from
your STAMINA. You can avoid this by eating one
meal from your Provisions, if you have any. Deduct
either one meal or 4 STAMINA points from the
scores on your Adventure Sheet, and turn to 61.

If you cannot or will not do this, there is only one
alternative: you must try to beg for food in the
streets. Turn to 223.
382

Lignia’s chant ceases; her hands freeze in mid-air,
You wait for something to happen. You become
aware of slight movements on your clothing and
equipment. Your hand flies to your sword, but as
you grasp the hilt it turns to red dust. There is
nothing left of the blade except a scabbard full of
rust. Reduce your sKILL by 4 points while you are
without a weapon. You open your backpack; every-
thing made of metal has been destroyed, including
the miner’s helmet, if you had one, and any coins
you may have had. The Ring of Zombie Warding, if
you had it, has crumbled into fragments. To make
matters worse, your metal buttons and buckles have
disappeared; you have to hold your clothes round
you with your hands. ‘Use vine-stems to secure
your clothing,’ Lignia advises. “You will be better off
without metal — it has always been a source of great
musery for al] the humanoid races. My ladder has
unrolled itself, and now you must leave. Do not
venture into my garden dell, but go round it, and
continue your journey.’ Will you obey this order
(turn to 144), or are you so angry that you feel you
must attack Lignia (turn to 16)?

382

The boat bumps against the timbers of the jetty. You
throw a loop of rope over a bollard as you climb on
to the planking. An overgrown path leads away
from the jetty, into the forest. You force a way along
the path, and soon you can see, between the trees, a
stone tower. The path turns to the left and continues
southwards through the forest; a side-track leads
towards the tower.

Dusk is approaching; soon you will need to make
camp for the night. Will you go to the tower to see if
it can provide shelter (turn to gg)? Or will you
continue along the path and look for a suitable
bivouac in the forest (turn to 146)?

383
You spin to your left, where a narrow trail leads
back into the depths of the jungle, and you run. A
thrown spear grazes your thigh ~ deduct 2 points
from your STAMINA. If you survive this wound,
you succeed in making your escape.

You run until all sounds of pursuit have dis-
appeared, and you find that you have crossed the
strip of jungle and emerged on to a broad plain. In
the distance, ahead of you, there is a ridge of low
hills, which you head for. After some time you
come to a wide, well-used track which you suppose
is the main road leading to the Portal. You cross it
hurriedly, not wishing to meet a squad of Slave
Warriors, and climb the ridge. You look down into a
gtassy valley, dotted with clumps of trees, that
narrows at both ends. To your right, a path leads
away from the direction of the Portal, along the
valley bottom; to your left, you see a thin column of
smoke rising from a copse. Will you investigate the
source of the smoke (turn to 165); or will you turn
right, towards the end of the valley (turn to 348)?

384

You pull the leather thong over your head and, as
you feel the weight of the dark-shadowed talisman
rest against your chest, you realize that you have
made a terrible mistake. The talisman is a conduit
for a power that was old before mankind learnt to
use wooden clubs — an infinitely evil power that you
cannot hope to resist alone and unprepared. Your
personality is snuffed out; you will join the Slave
Warriors in mindless thrall to the Portal.

Nt TIE) WU | | | Doe tant Pe ‘My name is Azudraz,’ says the old man as you
x ee” ey (| baa follow him into the stone building. ‘You’ve prob-
ay ably heard of me: the greatest alchemist this side of
Buruna. Six months ago I allowed myself to be
dragged up into this wilderness to work for one of
these mine-owners — Horfak, his name was, though
I haven't seen him since he first employed me. He
wanted me to invent a perfectly secure method for
storing gold; and now, at last, I've done it! It’s a
two-stage process. The first step is to take all these
gold nuggets and drop them into the tank that I’ve
built in the next room. I’ve managed to carry some
of them; but you’ll do the whole lot in no time with

two arms and this wheelbarrow.’

-

- :
| :
Ve
» >
’ ~

You pile gold-speckled rocks into the barrow and
wheel it through an archway into a room which is
dominated by a vast metal tank. Pipes of glass and
metal snake into and round the tank and each other,
and a wooden ramp takes you up to the rim. The
tank is full of clear, colourless liquid; its floor is
littered with nuggets. You tip the barrow, and
watch the load sink through the liquid to form a
glittering heap. The tankis wide, but not very deep,
and you are tempted to reach into it to retrieve a
nugget for yourself. Will you do so (turn to 95)? Or
e Sl 8 will you first test the liquid by dipping a piece of
em A UES oy i= ~ _ your clothing into it (turn to 137)?

< Shen We

tell “ ap ae Fas

= <# | ay o } "
A

it ,

ve

\

386
Nothing happens. You wait in front of the stone
wall, but no secret door appears. And then you hear
footsteps on the stairs: itis the regular tread of Slave
Warriors’ feet. There is only one place to hide — in
the dark shadow under the staircase. Turn to 341.

387
As you charge off the jetty towards the house, you
realize that you have made a terrible mistake. The
ferocious Oviraptor has been freed and is obviously

keen to sink its talons into your flesh and rend your -

body into bite-sized chunks with its rows of teeth.
This dinosaur alone would be a formidable op-
ponent, but in this open space in front of the house
there is ample room for the three Goblins to encircle
you. They do so. You cannot retreat. You cannot
hope to defeat them all. The Oviraptor will not
understand if you try to surrender. Your adventure
ends here.

388
You have only two choices: to march up to the gates
and fight the Slave Warrior guards (turn to 262), or
to attempt to climb over the spike-topped paling
(turn to 142).

3
Only one thing puts Gloten in a better mood than
fighting, and that’s winning. You have impressed
him. He announces to the assembled townspeople

that only a superlative warrior could last so long
against Gloten and his favourite weapon. He can-
cels the remainder of the tournament and tells the
crowd that you are to be their Champion. You are
deafened by cheers and applause. You shake
Gloten’s hand and wonder whether you should
murmur some complimentary phrase. You could
tell him, for instance, that he fights with the
strength and courage of a Dwarf. If you do this, turn
to 107. If you think it would be better to keep silent,
you go with Gloten to prepare for your solo mission.
Turn to 259.

390

Your fellow-warriors perform a war-dance round
the carcass of the Triceratops. The tribal bard impro-
vises verses to commemorate your bravery. When
the celebrations have quietened, you hold a council
of war. Atthe moment you are very close to the road
that runs between the Portal, known to the People
as the Sacred Cave, and the tyrant Warlord’s head-
quarters. The Shaman is sure that the Warlord
intends to leave his headquarters tomorrow, taking
his remaining Slave Warriors with him back to Khul;
the Shamans plan is to set an ambush at the Sacred
Cave, with the aim of killing the Warlord and res-
cuing Anxis, Queen of the People.

You can see no fault in this strategy, but you are
impatient of any delay; you suggest that you could
attempt a solo mission to infiltrate the Warlord’s
headquarters today; the warriors tell you that
beyond the ridge at the far side of the grassy plain
there is another path that leads along a valley to-
wards the Warlord’s base. Will you return in
tnumph with your fellow-warriors and prepare
with them for tomorrow’s ambush (turn to 213)? Or
will you set out alone to cross the ridge and follow
the path to the Warlord’s headquarters (turn to

348)?

391
Before your sword is out of its scabbard you are in a
whirlwind of flying knives, slashing swords, and
kicking hoofs. You don’t stand a chance.

392

As the Troglodytes move in for the kill, you glance
at the two Goblins; they too seem to know that they
cannot hope to survive a battle against so many
enemies. You watch in despair as they calmly put
down their swords, turn towards the looming
statue, and raise their arms in supplication to their
god. They begin to murmur an incantation. And
then the Troglodytes are upon you, and you can do
nothing but parry their clubs. Roll one die twice. If
the total of the two rolls is 6 or less, turn to 346. If the
total is 7 or more, turn to 231.

‘Listen, stranger,’ says the man. “You are obviously
a mighty warrior — which, I must confess, I certainly
am not; nor are any of my fellows who are concealed
about this glade. But between us we can defeat you,
and therefore I urge you to surrender now. If you
are in this forest with good reason, you have
nothing to fear from us. Now sheathe your sword,
or it will go badly for you.’

The man pulls the knife from his belt. Do you
believe his story about there being men concealed in
the forest? If you decide to surrender, turn to 292. If
you decide to attack the man, turn to 204.

394
‘If you are not prepared to make a contribution to

the Margrave’s treasury,’ the officer pronounces,
‘then you are clearly no better than a vagrant, and I
shall class you as such in my official report. I will
take you back to Kleinkastel for interrogation.
Sergeant! Take this vagrant away!"

The sergeant and several soldiers approach, carry-
ing ropes. If you are going to escape, you must do it
now. There are troopers at both ends of the village,
guarding the path, so you will have to run into the
forest by dodging between the village cabins. You
cannot tell which of the huts have soldiers lurking
near by. So you just run. Throw one die. If you
throw an even number, turn to 168. If you throw an
odd number, turn to 287.

395
You step into a vast, empty hall. In the centre of the

room is a table, and leaning over it is a large figure.
Drawing closer, you see that the table is covered
with a map of Khul; but you recoil in horror as the
figure ceases its study of the map, looks up and
stares at you. This is the tyrant Warlord of the
Portal: a giant of a man, and normal enough up to
his neck; but his head seems to have grown out of all
proportion to the rest of him: it is swollen, distorted
and discoloured, like a huge rotting vegetable, the
eyes, nose, mouth and ears small and misplaced
among the mounds and rolls of decaying flesh. ‘Iam

Horfak,’ whispers the abomination. ‘I see through
the eyes of all my Warriors. I have observed you
before. No doubt you think you have come to kill
me. Fool! My strength alone could defeat you; with
the Portal, I am invincible. See!’ He waves a hand,
and you feel the air vibrate. A living lattice of black
lightning-bolts criss-crosses the walls and ceiling.
‘No one can enter or leave now,’ Horfak announces
and goes on to describe his victorious campaigns on
Khul.

You are bored with his gloating. If you have the mad
god’s mirrored helmet, or another mirror, you can
place it in front of Horfak’s face — turn to 354; if not,
you waste no more time, but attack — tum to 47.

ate a.
of .
& ( x
« \
.~-
baie 4

\'

ee
; § Very.

,.

——

396

Your sword skids across the saurian’s snout and
snaps as it jars against a protruding plate of bone.
The tail, as thick as a barrel and as long as a tree-
trunk, sweeps out of the water and descends on
your boat, smashing it into fragments. Stunned,
you fall into the foaming whirlpool, where you are
easily snapped up by the monster.

3

You have found the Portal. You stare up at it, rooted
to the spot by an overwhelming sense of alien evil.
Every inch of the surface of all three black stone
slabs is covered with intricate hieroglyphics that
seem to writhe in the flickering light. You try to
decipher them; although you recognize none of the
symbols, your mind is filled with appalling images.
A darkness that is darker than the darkness of
underground tunnels seems to hover round the
edges of the megalithic slabs. You shudder as you
feel the Portal probing into your mind. Somehow
you know that this monstrous gateway is old; as old
as the rock walls that have hidden it for aeons, older
by far than the humanoid races of Khul. You shake
your head. You know you must try to destroy it. If
you have a sack of Igneolite, turn to 158. Otherwise,
turn to 289.

398

The wizard’s flying machine swoops over the
treetops, until suddenly the forest ends and you are
soaring above fields and orchards beyond which
rise the rooftops of Kleinkastel. The wizard adjusts
the crystals of the horse’s mane, and the machine
turns in a long descending curve, coming to earth in
a clearing just inside the thick forest. Both you and
the wizard jump from your saddles, whereupon the
metal horse rises into the air in a shower of sparks
and disappears from view. ‘We part here,’ says the
wizard, ‘and although we will not meetin the town,
we will continue to work towards the same pur-
pose. I will go there now, alone; my business is with
my fellow-mages, and the town elders, and the
Margrave. Stay here one hour, then come to the
town. By then, I hope, J will be in conclave, and you
will have to kick your heels waiting for the results of
my deliberations. Put yourself forward at the first
opportunity if you desire the glory of leading the
fight against the evil menace. And—I almost forgot -
here are 2 Gold Pieces; you may need to find food
and shelter overnight.’ The old wizard ‘hobbies
away along the path that crosses the clearing.

An hour later, you follow him. Turn to 143.

The pathway continues with a slight downhill
slope, taking you through stretches of dense forest
and grassy clearings. You are able to catch glimpses
of the stream below; you notice that, as you pro-
gress, the cliffs become less steep and the ravine less
deep. Finally the cliffs peter out, and your path joins
the one that runs along the bank of the stream. Turn
to 145.

400
You blink in the daylight at the mine entrance, and
descend into the forest, where you find the same
thing: all the Slave Warriors are either dead or they
are no longer slaves. You keep going until you reach
the edge of the forest, and Kleinkastel is in sight
across the meadows. The landscape before you has
been transformed: farmland has been dug up and
turned into fortified earthworks and networks of
trenches; siege-engines litter the fields

As you approach Kleinkastel, the town’s bells begin
to ring; the Forest Gate swings open, and the
Margrave rides out at the head of a small column of
wounded knights. You tell him that the Slave
Warriors are all gone. ‘Praise the gods!’ he breathes.
‘These are the only soldiers left who are fit to fight.
You have saved the town.’

Later, at a private meeting, Gloten and the Mar-
grave invite you to attend a public ceremony at
which you will receive your own weight in gold, as
well as other riches, But, strangely, you decline
their offer; gold seems to have lost its attraction ~ at
least for now. You accept a chest of gems, and a
good pack-horse, and you slip quietly away from
Kleinkastel. Many others leave the area, too. The
Cloudhigh Mountains lie undisturbed again.

lines. Pain stabs into your head; your limbs feel
heavy. Reduce your sKILL by 2 points for the dur-
ation of this fight. A laugh bubbles from Horfak’s
twisted lips as he moves forward, swinging his
blade in murderous arcs. Strengthened by the
power of the Portal, Horfak is a fearsome foe.

HORFAK

If you defeat him, you hear a victorious shout from
the People. As Horfak fell, the Slave Warriors fal-
tered; now they are fighting on, but they are slow
and ineffective, as if deprived of energy. Soon they
are all slain. The People celebrate and hail you as
their hero; but you know that the Portal still exists,
and that to save Khul you must try to destroy it. You
make for the Sacred Cave. Turn to 369.

SKILL i0 STAMINA 20

§2
Gloten shakes his head. ‘In the right hands, these
lengths of wood are no gentler than swords,’ he
says. ‘However, | agree we must not produce a
winner who is too wounded to be our Champion.
We will cancel the combat.’ The crowd hisses its
disapproval. ‘Silence!’ roars Gloten. ‘I have an
alternative. To the moat!’

The other contestants are: Ostbar, of the Margrave’s
bodyguard; Einbol, a Dwarf miner; and Trella, a
Wood Elf. The crowd follows you, Gloten and the
other contestants to the moat, overshadowed by the
castle and the town wall. A narrow footbridge arcs

from the street to the ramparts. “Tie their ankles
again!’ orders Gloten. ‘And dangle them on ropes,
upside down, two on each side of the bridge, all
within sword’s reach of each other. Now, when I
give the word, draw your swords — and each try to
cut the others down. This will be a real test of
swordsmanship! The one who stays dry will be our
Champion! Draw swords!’

You find yourself hanging upside down above the
green water of the moat. On the same side of the
bridge is Einbol, and you decide to try to cut his rope
first. Einbol has 7 points of SKILL. Roll dice as for
combat; the contestant with the higher Attack
Strength succeeds in cutting the rope of the other,
who falls into the slimy water below and is pulled
out by jeering townsfolk. If you are the unfortunate
loser, you find Gloten waiting at the side of the moat
— turn to 339. If you win, turn to 197.

80

You fall backwards and crash to the ground on the
outside of the fence. Roll one die; if you roll a 4, 5 or
6, you twist your leg as you Jand — deduct 2 more
points from your STAMINA. If youare siillalive, you
pick yourself up and find that the noise of your fall
has attracted the two Slave Warrior guards. You
must fight them. Turn to 262.

81

While the wizard consults crumbling scrolls and
worm-eaten volumes, you gaze out of the windows
at green slopes descending to a rocky shore. Bored,
you browse along the shelves, but find few books
written in languages you are familiar with. You find
an illustrated book of Goblin recipes: revolted, you
return to staring at the countryside.

Finally, the wizard stops taking notes and explains
what he has found. ‘The danger we face is greater
than anyone can imagine. This evil has arisen before

~ many thousands of years ago, when only the
Goblins lived for hundreds of miles around. Under-
ground, a source of evil was discovered: a gateway
to another place, a forgotten, ancient world of giant
and unnatural beasts. This Portal had, perhaps,
existed since time began, allowing a few wandering
animals and humanoids to pass through. The evil in
the Portal was quiescent, waiting — and one day a
Goblin war-chief, proud and powerful, found the
Portal, entered it, and was held fast by the evil force.
The war-chief and the Portal took strength from
each other, and together they enslaved the popula-
tion, creating an army of merciless thralls. Each
wore a stone like the talisman you have shown me.
But the Goblin war-chief was defeated! There are
clues to help us.’

Turn to 199.

