"FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS

— Over 10 million copies sold worldwide!

-_——_

The fire of the Sentinels must be rekindle!

Six massive stone dragons puard the tiny kine
dom of Zamarra. But the tire they breathy has
been extinguished And pow Zamarra is under
siege by Ostragoth the Grim and his swarming
hordes. His aim ts to destroy rhe twelve witards
of the Mage-Oyder and spread the evil of the
enchanter Jaxartes throughout Khul! The Sen
unels’ fire must he restored to its former power
— and YOU have volunteered tor the task! Your
terrifying mission will take you to the white
het. core of the volcano known as the FANGS
OF FURY and there is no time to lose!

Past story, part game, this isa book m which YOU
became the hero! YOU decide which reutes to
take, which dangers to risk and Which foes to fight

Ceewr and (Dots yyein Dw Dayal Coating

ISBN 0-14-052935-8

ill]
|

|
WH : 29 | bh

(i) A PUFFIN 800%
<

NGSTONE |

poral

aNOLSONLALL NYT CNV

Ye IVI

a

_
%
oe
a
-_

——
}
5

Any jo ssuvj

2 =.

ll
PUFFIN BOOKS
FANGS OF FURY

Six massive fire-breathing Stone Sentinels guard the King-
dom of Zamarra, but their flame has been extinguished and
the city is under siege. Ostragoth and his swarming hordes
aim to destroy the twelve Wizards of the Mage Order and
spread the Evil of the Enchanter Jaxartes throughout Khul.
The Sentinels’ Fire must be rekindled.

You are an elite warrior of the city of Zamarra, and YOU
have volunteered for the task. Your terrifying mission will
take you to the white-hot core of the volcano known as the
Fangs of Fury and there is no time to lose!

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you need to embark
on this thrilling adventure, which is complete with its elabo-
rate combat system and a score sheet to record your gains
and losses.

Many dangers lie ahead and your success is by no means
certain. YOU decide which routes to follow, which dangers
to risk and which adversaries to fight!
Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks Steve Jackson and Jan Livingstone

THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP MOUNTAIN present:
THE CITADEL OF CHAOS

THE FOREST OF DOOM
STARSHIP TRAVELLER

CITY OF THIEVES
DEATHTRAP DUNGEON
ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING
SCORPION SWAMP

CAVERNS OF THE SNOW WITCH
HOUSE OF HELL

TALISMAN OF DEATH

SPACE ASSASSIN

FREEWAY FIGHTER

TEMPLE OF TERROR

THE RINGS OF KETHER

SEAS OF BLOOD .
APPOINTMENT WITH FEAR
REBEL PLANET

DEMONS OF THE DEEP
SWORD OF THE SAMURAI
TRIAL OF CHAMPIONS
ROBOT COMMANDO

MASKS OF MAYHEM
CREATURE OF HAVOC
BENEATH NIGHTMARE CASTLE
CRYPT OF THE SORCERER
STAR STRIDER

PHANTOMS OF FEAR
MIDNIGHT ROGUE

CHASMS5 OF MALICE
BATTLEBLADE WARRIOR
SLAVES OF THE ABYSS

SKY LORD

STEALER OF SOULS
DAGGERS OF DARKNESS
ARMIES OF DEATH

PORTAL OF EVIL

VAULT OF THE VAMPIRE

Steve Jackson’s SORCERY!
The Shamutan& Hills Luke Sharp
Kharé — Cityport of Traps

The Crown off Kings Hlustrated by David Gallagher

BWwWNH

FIGHTING FANTASY - The Introductory Role-playing Game

THE RIDDLING REAVER

OUT OF THE PIT - Fightng Fantasy Monsters 2

TITAN — The Fighting Fantasy World Puffin Books
THE TROLLTOOTH WARS - A Fightng Fantasy Novel

PUFFIN BOOKS

Published by the Penguin Group
27 Wnghts Lane, London w8 57z, England
Viking Penguin Inc., 4o West 23rd Street, New York, New York ta010, USA
Penguin Books Australia Lid, Ringwood, Victoria, Australia
Penguin Books Canada Ltd, 2%01 John Street, Markham, Ontario, Canada £3R 1Bq
Penguin Books (“Z) Ltd, 182-190 Wairau Raad, Auckland 10, New Zealand

Penguin Books Ltd, Registered Offices: Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England
First published Puffin Books 1989

Concept copynght © Steve Jackson and lan Livingstone, 1989
Text copyright © Alkis Alkiviades, 1989
Mustrations copyright © David Gallagher, 1989
Map copyright © Steve Luxton, 1969
All rights reserved

Typesel in 11/13pt Linotron Palatino by
Rowland Phototypesetling Lid,
Bury Sl Edmunds, 5uffolk
Made and printed in Great Britain by
Cox and Wyman Ltd, Reading, Berks

Except in the United Stales of Amenca,
this book is sald subject to the conditon
thai « shall nol, by way of trade or otherwise,
be lenL, re-sold, hired vut, or otherwise arculated
without the publisher's prior consent in any form of
binding or cover others than (hal in which it 1s
published and without a similar condihon
including this condition bemg imposed
on the subsequent purchaser

To Jake and Elwood Blues,

John T. Chance, Ricky Blain, Kambei, Kikuchiyo,
Gorobei, Kyuzo, Heihachi, Shichirojit, Katsushiro,
Shino and the Motley Crew,

Real heroes every one.
CONTENTS

HOW TO FIGHT THE CREATURES OF ZAMARRA
9

ADVENTURE SHEET
18

BACKGROUND
20

FANGS OF FURY
a

HOW TO FIGHT THE CREATURES
OF ZAMARRA

Before embarking on your adventure, you must first
determine your own strengths and weaknesses.
You must work out your initial LUCK, SKILL and
STAMINA Scores. You may use the Adventure Sheet
on pages 18-19 to record all the details of your
adventure. Here you will find boxes for recording
your SKILL, STAMINA and Luck scores. If it is
possible to make a photocopy of this page, do so.
Otherwise record all details in pencil

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter the
total in the SKILL box on the Adventure Sheet.

Roll both dice. Add 12 to the number rolled and
enter this number in the STAMINA box.

Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter this
total in the LUCK box.

For reasons that will be explained below, SKILL,
STAMINA and LUCK scores change constantly dur-
ing anadventure, You must keep an accurate record
of these scores and for this reason you are advised
either to write small in the boxes or to keep an eraser
handy. But never rub out your Initial scores.

Your SKILL score reflects your swordsmanship and
general fighting expertise; the higher the better.
Your STAMINA score reflects your general constitu-
tion, your will to survive, your determination and
overall fitmess; the higher your sTAMINA score, the
longer you will be able to survive. Your LUCK score
indicates how naturally lucky a person you are.
Luck — and magic — are facts of life in the fantasy
kingdom you are about to explore.

Battles

You will! often come across pages in the book which
instruct you to fight a creature of some sort. An
option to flee may be given, but if not — or if you
choose to attack the creature anyway -— you must
resolve the battle as described below.

First record the creature’s SKILL and STAMINA
scores in the first vacant Encounter Box on your
Adventure Sheet. The scores for each creature are
given in the book each time you have an encounter.

The sequence of combat is then:

1. Roll both dice for the creature. Add its SKILL
score. This total is the creature’s Attack
Strength.

2. Roll both dice once for yourself. Add the num-
ber rolled to your current SKILL score. This total
is your Attack Strength.

3. If your Attack Strength is higher than the crea-
ture’s, you have wounded it: proceed to step 4.

10

If the creature’s Attack Strength is higher than
yours, it has wounded you: proceed to step 5. If
both Attack Strength totals are the same, you
have avoided or parried each other’s blows —
start the next Attack Round from step 1 above.

4. You have wounded the creature, so subtract 2
points from its STAMINA score. You may use
Luck here to do additional damage (see below).

5. The creature has wounded you, so subtract 2
points from your own STAMINA. Again you
may use LUCK at this stage (see below).

6. Make the appropriate adjustments to either the
creature’s or your OWN STAMINA Scores (and
your LUCK score if you used LUCk~— see below).

7. Begin the next Attack Round by repeating
steps 1 to 6. This sequence continues until the
STAMINA score of either you or the creature
you are fighting reaches zero (death).

Fighting More Than One Creature

lf you come across more than one creature in a
particular encounter, the instructions on that page
will tell you how to handle the battle. Usually you
will fight each one in turn.

31
Luck

At various times during your adventure, either in
battles or when you come across other situations in
which you could either be Lucky or Unlucky (details
of these are given on the relevant pages), you may
cal] on your LUCK to make the outcome more
favourable, But beware! Using Luck is a risky busi-
ness and if you are Unlucky, the results could be
disastrous.

The procedure for using your Lucx is as follows:
roll two dice. If the number rolled is equal to or less
than your current LUCK score, you have been Lucky
and the result will go in your favour. If the number
rolled is higher than your current LUCK score, you
have been Unlucky and you will be penalized.

This procedure is known as Testing your Luck, Each
time you Test your Luck, you must subtract 1 point
from your current LUCK score. Thus you will soon
realize that the more you rely on your LUCK, the
more risky this will become.

Using Luck in Battles

On certain pages of the book you will be told to Test
your Luck and you will be told the consequences of
your being Lucky or Unlucky. However, in battles,
you always have the option of using your Luck
either to inflict a more serious wound on a creature
you have just wounded, or to minimize the effects
of a wound the creature has just inflicted on you.

Iz

If you have just wounded the creature, you may Test
your Luck as described above. If you are Lucky, you
have inflicted a severe wound and may subtract an
extra 2 points from the creature’s STAMINA score.
However, if you are Unlucky, the wound was a
mere graze and you must restore 1 point to the
creature’s STAMINA (i.e. instead of scoring the
normal 2 points of damage, you have now scored
only 1).

If the creature has just wounded you, you may Test
your Luck to try and minimize the wound. If you are
Lucky, you have managed to avoid the full damage
of the blow. Restore 1 point of STAMINA (i.e. in-
stead of doing 2 points of damage it has done only
1). If you are Unlucky, you have taken a more
serious blow. Subtract 1 extra STAMINA point.

Remember that you must subtract 1 point from your
LUCK score each time you Test your Luck.

Restoring Skill, Stamina and Luck
Skill

Your SKILL score will not change much during
your adventure. Occasionally a paragraph may give
you instructions to increase or decrease your SKILL
score. Your SKILL can never exceed its Initial value
unless specifically instructed. Drinking the Potion
of Skill (see below) will restore your SKILL to its
Initial level at any time.

13

Stamina and Provisions

Your STAMINA score will change a Jot during your
adventure as you fight and undertake arduous
tasks. As you near your goal, your STAMINA level
may be dangerously low and battles may be par-
ticularly risky, so be careful!

Your backpack contains enough Provisions for ten
meals. You may rest and eat at any time except
when engaged in a battle. Eating a meal restores
4 STAMINA points. When you eat a meal, add 4
points to your STAMINA score and deduct 1 point
from your Provisions. A separate Provisions box is
provided on the Adventure Sheet for recording de-
tails of Provisions. Remember that you have a long
way to go, so use your Provisions wisely! Remem-
ber also that your STAMINA score may never ex-
ceed its Initial value unless specifically instructed on
a page. Drinking the Potion of Strength (see below)
will restore your STAMINA (to its Initial level at any
time.

Luck

Additions to your LUCK score are awarded through
the adventure when you have been particularly
lucky. Details are given in the appropriate pare-
graph of the book. Remember that, as with $11.1.
and STAMINA, your LUCK score may never exceed
its Initial value, unless specifically instructed in a
paragraph. Drinking the Potion of Fortune (see
below) wil] restore your LUCK to its Initial level at
any time, and increase your Initial Luck by 1 point.

f

Equipment and Potions

You will start your adventure with a bare minimum
of equipment, but may find or buy other items
during your travels. You are armed with a sword
and are dressed in leather armour, You have a
backpack to hold any Provisions and any treasures
you may come across. Zamarran Gold Coins are

small, so you can easily carry as many as you can
find.

In addition, you may take one bottle of a magical
potion which will aid you on your quest. You may
choose to take a bottle of any of the following:

Potion of Skill - restores sKILL points

Potion of Strength — restores STAMINA points
Potion of Fortune -~ restores LUCK points and
increases Initial LUCK by 1

15

These potions may be taken at any time during
your adventure (except when engaged in a battle).
Taking a measure of potion will restore SKILL,
STAMINA Or LUCK scores to their Initial level (and
the Potion of Fortune will add 1 point to your Inifial
LUCK score before LUCK is restored).

Each bottle of potion contains enough for one
measure, i.e. the characteristic may be restored only
once during an adventure. Make a note on your
Adventure Sheet when you have consumed the
potion.

Remember also that you may choose only one of the
three potions to take on your trip, so choose wisely!

Gold, Gems and Cubes

You begin the adventure with 10 Gold Coins: mark
these on your Adventure Sheet in the Gold box. You
are also given 4 Black Cubes: add these to the upper
section of the Cube box. The Adventure Sheet also
contains a Gem box. Mark any jewels you pick up
on your travels and make sure you indicate what
type they are — Star Crystals, Blue Gems, Yellow
Gems, etc.

16

>
oe
3

The Citadel Walls

You are in a race against time. The besieging armies
of Ostragoth the Grim will be attempting to breach
the fourteen Zamarran Walls of Defence to kill the
twelve Wizards. You have a Bracelet attached to
your wrist that will glow each time one of the walls
of the defence has been breached. When the last
wall has been penetrated, the Wizards will be killed
and the Bracelet you wear will kill you. Each time
the Bracelet glows you must replace the white flag
of King Elidor of Zamarra with the black flag of the
Ostragoth-Jaxartes Alliance (pencil in the white flag
on the Adventure Sheet). When all fourteen walls are
flying, the black standard then you have run out of
time. The Bracelet will perform its grisly task and
you will die instantly!

17
18

ADVENTURE SHEET

MONSTER ENCOUNTER BOXES

Skhilic

Stuming~

Shiull=
Stamina =

Still=
Siantiaa =

Skis

Slama

Skit «
Stamina =

Si iM --
Stamm =

Shi) =

Sla mint =

Ski) =

Slawied=

SAIL STAMINA LUCK PROVISIONS
Initial initia! Inetial

Seall = Stamiia @ Linwtk>=

[4 Tf NorEs GOLD CUBES
ie) Lhe

LAL

[ |

== -—_] Giants =
oli

} —

iergtier

t 4 ii +

= 2 = | CLUES, OBJECTS FOUND

oa

CITADEL WALLS

Skill Still = Still = Ssiill =
Stamina = Stamina = Stiminu = Siaminu =
Skill - Still~ Shill Shcli =
Staurnrwe = Stanrea = Stantina — Stamite =

19

BACKGROUND

Just after you took that one step forward, you knew
that it was a mistake. You remembered the training
camp: the old lags, men and women who had been
through all the wars, used to say, ‘Never volunteer.
That’s Rule One.’ And here you are, in a besieged
citadel, one step forward, with the rest of the troop
chuckling behind you.

Captain Laski smiles and marches you to the inner
chambers. Occasionally you hear a crash and the
ground shakes as another large rock is catapulted
against the citadel’s massive walls. You are angry at
yourself for your lapse and hope that you're just
wanted for something like an extra watch or a sortie
for prisoners, or perhaps a water detail.

You are marched straight to the King’s Chamber. It
is warm and comfortable inside. King Ekdor is
standing by a huge round table and around him are
the twelve Wizards. There are other attendants and
bodyguards in the shadows.

The King is studying a large map. Now and again,
a fine dust settles on the table and Snuffserk, the
King’s Chancellor, wipes it away with a red cloth.
‘Your Majesty, J have the volunteer,’ Captain Laski
proudly announces.

20

The King looks you up and down, ‘Step closer,
brave warrior.’ Your heart sinks as the others stare
at you. From what the King just said you know that
you've volunteered for something dangerous

“You have explained the situation to the volunteer?’
one of the Wizards asks Captain Laski.

‘My troops were all informed that it was an ex-
tremely hazardous mission.’ You look at Laski, but
know that you can’t contradict an officer; even less
change your mind.

‘Well, I think it’s time the volunteer knew all the
details.” The Wizard bids you follow him to the
table, sits you down and begins to explain.

‘My name is Astragal. lam one of the Mage Order,
and these,’ he points to the others, ‘are my fellow
Wizards from the surrounding lands. As you are
well aware, the Citadel of Zamarra is under siege by
a massive force led by Ostragoth the Grim, but what
you may not understand is the reason for this attack
ona small city kingdom. Ostragoth wants to kill us.’
He points again to all the Wizards; they all look a
little uncomfortable. ‘He wishes to conquer all the
southern lands of Khul and knows that the Wizards
of the Mage Order will only work for Good, never
Evil, Under the influence of the Evil Enchanter
Jaxartes, Ostragoth decided to strike at us once and
forall when we met here. He has waited seven years
for this opportunity and has mustered a massive
force. If we are all killed, the land will be prey to the
Evil magic of Jaxartes, once the most powerful of

21

our Order but cast out for delving into the Dark
Arts. You have seen the size of the fleet and army
numbered against this tiny kingdom of Zamarra. If
he succeeds here, Gorak, Kazan, Transoxalia, all of
south-west Khul will fall to his power.

“You may well ask why we did not foresee such a
danger. For your answer, look out of that window at
one of the six Stone Sentinels of Zamarra. They are
not just massive statues of Dragons, they are our
defence. They breathe the Fire from the Fangs of
Fury. They were charged to destroy any Evil force
with a speed and viciousness undreamt of by any
mortal.’

You stare at the vast stone creature and can only
utter, ‘But why. . .?’

“Yes, why do they not attack now? Because their
Fire, their living Flame has been extinguished.
Some traitor has craftily Spell-broken their Eternal
Breath. Which brings me to YOU.’ Your heart sinks
as Astraga] points to an object on the table.

He picks it up and hands it to you: intricately carved
with all manner of symbols, it is made from a white
horn-like substance in the shape of a small torch.

‘All twelve Wizards here have combined their
power to produce this apparently insignificant
item. The Stone Sentinels’ Fire must be rekindled. If
this Torch is lit at the Fangs of Fury, the Dragons’
Breath will flow again and the creatures may per-
form their hideous task of destruction. Jaxartes will
have knowledge of the Torch, the traitor will see to
that. And Jaxartes will want it in his possession. He
has invested too much of himself in attempting our
destruction, so he fears this Torch and its bearer.
There have been rumours of black-cloaked figures
appearing on the battlefields outside the Citadel. If
these prove to be his Mage Warziors, you must be
ever-cautious, for they are extremely powerful and
dangerous.

‘Lam certain that Jaxartes will try to extinguish the
great Flame at the core of Fury, therefore speed is of
the essence. There is no time for careful penetration
of the siege lines. We have, however, one ray of
hope. The volcano is the centre of a strange religious
sect. The name of the religion is not known but its
adherents are called Wazarri. They it was who
supplied the original flame for the Sentinels. They
may help you, but beware, no other may carry the
Torch to the Furnace!

23

Se Eee

“Your task is this: you must break through the siege,
and head north towards the high mountains and
find the volcano known as the Fangs of Fury.’ He
points to the map which shows a drawing of five
fangs clustered together. “You must go into the
depths, to the very core. There, you must thrust the
Torch into the white-hot inferno. At that moment
the Sentinels will awaken. But you must beware!
Jaxartes knows the secrets of the Fangs of Fury; it
will be guarded by all manner of Fell Beasts.’

Astragal walks away from the table and takes a sip
from a flagon handed to him by an attendant. King
Elidor then speaks to you. ‘It is my belief that one
determined person can pierce the siege lines better
than a host of knights. It was my decision to use
none of the Knights of the Order: their faces are too
well known in Zamarra. If you wish to refuse the
mission, do so now.’ You know that this is your
only chance to go back and not get involved in this
risky venture, but somehow you find you cannot
sav anything.

Astragal comes back. ‘The heat of the core will be
intense. You must protect yourself with these.’ He
hands you four small Black Cubes. ‘Each one will
absorb the power of a white-hot sheet of fire on one
occasion and then disintegrate. Unfortunately, we
have no others here. If you find any more, take all
you can for you will surely need them.’

You notice that there is some plain leather armour
on one of the chairs. Captain Laski motions for you
to go over and to put it on. Just as you slip off your
liveried jerkin, another Wizard appears in front of
you. He has dark, distrustful eyes and holds a
bracelet. ‘I have convinced the Mage Order to fit this
on your wrist. It will glow when Ostragoth’s force
has broken through each of the fourteen Citade!
Walls. If the final wall is breached and we are killed,
you will also die, so do not think of escaping once
you have got through the siege lines. You cannot
remove the Bracelet. However, if you succeed it will
fall off and you may keep it. It will make you very
wealthy.’

‘Thank you, Morgrek,’ Astragal says with a slight
air of distaste, ‘I can hear the battering-rams pound-
ing at the main gate. Ostragoth’s creatures must
have crossed the moat. There is no time to lose!’

Now, turn to 1.

25

_—— SOE a
1

You are taken to the deepest part of the Citadel.
Captain Laski and two soldiers march in front of
you and the twelve Wizards shuffle along behind
you, Astragal looks at you, shakes your hand
warmly and wishes you good tuck. He then stands
back with the others.

Captain Laski orders the soldiers to lift one of the
slabs in the chamber. They prise it up to reveal a set
of stone steps leading mto a tunnel. The Captain
then gives you some advice: ‘Keep to the left-hand
wall. Don’t light a torch, you might be seen. And
.. well. . . good luck.’ You are amazed to hear a
good word from your hard-bitten Captain. You
check your pack, equipment and the all-important
Torch hidden in the secret panel of your leather
armour, and step down into the dark hole.

Just then, the ground shakes as another boulder
slams into the Citadel walls. You look up. Captain
Laski pokes his head into the hole and screams at
you, “And make sure you succeed. I won’t have
you besmirching the honour of the Seventh Foot-
sloggers.’ His head disappears and the slab is
dropped back down. You are in complete darkness.

You feel your way along the left side of the wall for
about 400 paces and then you fall over a pile of
tubble. You get up to find the tunnel ahead is
blocked. You listen carefully and can hear shouting
and screaming. You also smell faint whiffs of fresh
air. You feel around in the dark and find another

2-3

smaller tunnel to the right. Your first instinct is to go
back but you realize that from here on there is no
going back. What do you decide? Do you take the
tunnei to the right (turn to 260) or do you climb the
pile of rubble (turn to 118)?

Ae ad

You run fast and drop down before anyone can see
you. You weave in and out making sure that you are
not followed. You make your way out of the town.
Turn to 398. \

You walk into a village and notice a lot of activity.
The villagers are bringing in their sacks of grain and
rice and stacking them in a central store. They eye
you with suspicion but let you pass. You head for an
inn and sit down on a bench outside the building
and rest (add 4 points to your sTaMINA). A little
girl skips past you with a bag of rice. Suddenly, the
bag breaks and all the rice spills on to the ground.
She begins to cry that she’s already late for school
and gets down on her knees to pick up the grains.
Do you help her (turn to 182) or do you sit back and
relax (turn to 60}?

4-5

4
Nobody takes much notice of you on board. You

keep your head down and follow a group who are
heading below deck. Turn to 132.

5
Occasionally, you hear screams coming from a

metal door at the side of the wagon. After a few
hours, the door is opened and a haggard-looking
man is thrown into the prison cell. He crawls about
trying to hide his face in the filthy straw and shout-
ing, “No! No!’ The guard, an Ogre wearing a black
hood, comes in and orders you out. As you leave,
you look at the monk. He is still smiling. The door is
bolted behind you, You are in complete darkness,
then someone lights a candle and vou see the face of
a woman. She smiles a wicked smile and begins to
pace up and down. She wears a uniform of black
leather with the personal insignia of Ostragoth the
Grim. ‘Eventually, you will tell me everything and
more, I will not touch a hair on your head but you
will be hurt by yourself.” Suddenly, you see an
image of yourself covered in wounds and blood. It
attacks you and you find a sword in your hand, You
must fight yourself, with your Own SKILL and
STAMINA scores.

YOURSELF SKILL STAMINA

If you lose, you will tell all to the Inquisitor (turn to
321). If you win, you are thrown back into the
wagon (turn to 83).

OEE
6

The Elves congregate in a huge stone stadium en-
circling a smooth green field. Cloris the Elf-maiden
explains the rules. ‘The team is made up of five men
and women. Two teams compete to carry a circular
rock across the opposing team’s territory. Each
player plays individually against his or her oppo-
nent. The player must move twelve paces four times
(forty-eight paces) while the opponent tries to stop
him or her with body blows.’

Throw three dice and total. If you get 12 or over,
repeat three more times. If you fail to make 12 or
over, then you must deduct the shortfall from your
STAMINA and add it to the next group of 12 paces.
(For example: 5+3+3 = 11. Thisis 1 under: deduct 1
point from your STAMINA and you must make 13
on your second attempt.) lf you succeed in getting
through, turn to 145. If you fail, turn to 37.

7-68

You mount the horse. You guess that it belonged to
Orc cavalry by the row of heads hanging from the
saddle. Shuddering, you detach these quickly and
then gallop away. You see a small purse inside the
saddle-bag and reach in to find 10 Gold Coins. (Add
these to your Adventure Sheet and increase your
LuCK by 1 point.) Turn to 335.

8

You poke your sword into the stream and find a
very good ford; it’s quite shallow and easy to cross
without getting too wet. You cross the stream. The
camp-fire is very close to the edge of the forest. You
hear a distant noise to the left and see a flame rising
into the sky. It has the distinct shape of a fist. Do
you head towards it to investigate (turn to 104) or do
you approach the camp-fire (turn to 276)?

Se SSS eee

g~10

9
The monk speaks. ‘Your path is perilous. Jaxartes

awaits you with his Evil at every turn. He knows
your aim, the nearer you get to the Fangs of Fury the
more intense his watchfulness, You must enter the
Homrath Caves and seek the Key. The Key may
then be . . .” Suddenly, the three monks keel over
and begin to blaze. The Dragon becomes a thin wisp
of smoke and then disappears. A trapdoor falls
open in the floor in front of you. Do you go down
through the trapdoor (turn to 281) or go back out of
the door (turn to 138)?

10

You walk into a packed room. Some of the people
are wearing Ostragoth’s insignia but most are
sailors swilling their grog. They all stop and stare for
a moment. You know that you are in the wrong
place. You turn to check your exit when someone
clubs you over the head (deduct 1 point from your
STAMINA), You black out. Turn to 230.

11-12

14
The chamber contains three very small Dragon-
men. They are playing with some Muiti-Coloured
Gems. They look at you, drop the Gems and ap-
proach, They bite your legs but they do not hurt. Do
you wish to pick up the 10 Gems (turn to 354) or do
you leave them and carry on (turn to 226)?

12

You continue in a direction that you hope will get
you away from Ostragoth’s siege armies. You head
for the coast and eventually come to the cliffs. Below
you is a sandy cove. Just then, you see a figure
swept in to the shore by the waves. The figure lies
on the beach, motionless. Do you climb down to
investigate (turn to 312) or do you decide to walk
further along the clifftop (turn to 207)?

ee ee ES
Nt UA HRY

zi at
a S- ae

13

13
You run into the darkness. The Giant calls out to
you, ‘No, you play game. Come back!” He stomps
after you, picks up a handful of stones and throws
them at you. Throw a die. This is the number of
stones that hit you. Deduct the number from your
STAMINA on the Adventure Sheet.

You race along until you reach the end of the cave,
You feel around for a bolt-hole as the Giant lumbers
towards you. You find a wooden trapdoor in the
floor. You pull on it and it opens easily. You jumpin
and shut it behind you. The Giant is too big to follow
but you can hear him shouting, ‘The littl’uns will get
you.” As you wonder about his threat, you turn
around and then you see exactly what he means. A
large group of Gremlins, all looking murderous, are
emerging from the walls, ceiling and floor into a
corridor leading to a large wooden door. You have
no choice but to run through them. They stab at you
with their daggers.

Throw three dice. This is the number of stabs aimed
at you. Throw three dice again for the number you
manage to ward off. If the stabbings are greater,
then reduce your STAMINA by the difference multi-
plied by 2.

14-16

if you manage to reach the door, it opens easily and
you rush through and bolt it behind you. Turn to

279.

14
The water is refreshing and tastes very sweet. It
guenches your thirst. Increase your STAMINA by 3
points. You carry on along the road. Turn to 352.

15
You clamber down the steep rocky path and when
you reach the bottom you spy an old man dressed in
seafaring clothes. He wears large sea-boots and
carnies a rusty cutlass. He also has a patch over one
eye. He is sitting by a charcoal fire and is cooking a
large white bird, complete with feathers, You ap-
proach carefully but he looks too ancient to cause
you any trouble. To his left is a sea-rod, some nets
and a couple of lightweight reed boats. He sees you
and points his good eye at you. ‘Aye, there be
another brave deserter. I suppose you'll be wanting
a boat to the island to get a merchantman out of
here, like the others? Well, the price has gone up,
lots of demand now, y’see. Three Gold Coins! Ill
take no less.’ Do you accept the offer (turn to 240} or,
if you refuse or have not the gold, do you climb back
up the path and walk along the clifftop (turn to 207)?

16
You follow the narrow track. The bushes get thicker
and thicker. Eventually the path forks again but ona
tree in front of you you see the carved shape of a

|

figure holding a shield and a dagger. The shield
hand points south-west and the dagger hand points
north-east. Do you follow the left path (turn to 217)
or do you choose the right-hand track (turn to 74)?

a7

Test your Luck. If you are Unlucky, a stake pierces
your thigh: deduct 1 point from your sK1LL and 4
points from your STAMINA. If you are Lucky, the
stake glances off your leather armour. You get up
and look around. In the gloomy light you see a small
wooden trapdoor that must have once been used by
the trap’s constructors. You push it open and find a
narrow crawl-way that eventually leads to another
trap. Just then, the Bracelet glows (mark a captured
Citadel Wall on the Adventure Sheet). You continue
through a whole series of traps until you come to
another trap that has been sprung. Here you find
the seated figure of an old monk. In his hands he
holds a small box. His eyes are open but he does not
breathe. Do you try to open the box (turn to 291) or
do you leave it alone and continue through the
tunnels (turn to 192)?

a

18-20

18

The Flame rekindles and begins to blaze with an
intense fury that you cannot bear. Jaxartes’ laughter
now turns to a hideous scream. You remember the
purpose of your mission and detach the Torch from
the secret panel of your armour. You stagger to-
wards the heat and plunge the Torch into the Flame.
It splutters, then lights and burns with a multi-
coloured blaze. The Torch leaves your hand and
settles into a hole next to the inferno. You stagger
away. Turn to 273.

19

You pull out your gold and hand it over (deduct
all the Gold Coins from your Adventure Sheet).
The captain takes it all, bites a few coins with his
disgusting teeth and throws some to his two com-
panions. ‘Don’t worry, you'll get lots of booty when
we get in there,’ he points to the Citadel. ‘Stick with
us and you'll be rich at the end of this campaign.’ He
tries to get his foot into his boot but the leather rips
down the side. He curses and waddles off. Turn to
218.

20
You walk for a while across the long grass. The river
is further away than it had first appeared. Eventu-
ally you reach the bank. The water is not swift
flowing but it is clear and clean, You take a drink
(add 2 points to your STAMINA). When you raise
your head, you see two sets of small red boots. You
lift your head up further and see that the owners of

21-22

the boots are Dwarfs. They both smile, One of them
bows slightly and formaily introduces himself as
Skiff and his colleague as Sprig. They both point toa
rowing-boat. Skiff explains that customers wishing
to travel up-river are few and far between now that
the siege is on. He asks if you want to hire a boat to
RO up-river (at a very reasonable cost of 1 Gold
Coin). If you agree, deduct 1 Gold Coin from your
Adventure Sheet, and turn to 208. If you refuse (or
cannot attord it) and wish to carry on alone, turn to
109

21
You take out the Torch and hand it over to Snuff-
serk. He smiles, pulls out a curved dagger and stabs
you. You collapse as you see the illusion of the
Wizard fade away. The Mage Warrior comes over
and takes the Torch, ‘Well done, Snuffserk, you will
be well rewarded. Now, | will finish the job.’ You
are helpless as he raises a sword over your head
Your mission is over,

22
You slip into the tent to get out of the way of the
patrol, Just then, someone shouts at you. ‘Hey,
come here! I've been waiting for you, Help me get
this breast-plate on. I'm due out on the northern
patrol soon.’ You realize that you have a golden
Opportunity. You stand behind the knight and pre-
pare to hit him over the head. But he is too fast for
you, spins around and pulls out a sword. ‘Do you

23-24
think you can pull that trick with one of the Elite
Knights,’ he screams.

ELITE KNIGHT SKILL

If you survive, you put on the armour and helmet.
Turn to 154.

STAMINA 10

23

‘So, nobody wants to play with me. Well you know
what happens now.’ He raises his hands into the air
and the room is plunged into darkness. Hideous
screams and horrible fire-breathing monsters fill the
room. You are terrified (deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA). Everybody screams and most of them
look at you because you are the only one dressed for
combat. You decide to face the danger. You leave
the inn. Turn to 171,

You remember Captain Laski’s words: ‘Run in
straight lines through an arrow shower. Never
change direction, that will only slow you down and
make you an easier target.’ You count yourself
lucky that you remembered that advice. Add 1
LUCK point,

You look back and see that the Goblin has been hit
by an arrow through the neck. You know that you
will be safer in a crowd. Ahead, you see a group of
mounted Orcs waiting for an attack. They each have
an attendant. Do you head for this group hoping to
lose yourself (turn to 280), or do you follow a group

25
trotting towards the veach to rescue a siege catapult

that’s stuck in the sand (turn to 70)?

OCR RTF
2

25

You wake up sopping wet in a wooden cage. Two
Garks are looking at you. One of them speaks. ‘Kill
the scum now, I’m sure that’s the same face. We’l!
say the scum tried to escape. It'll save us a lot of
bother.’ The other creature stares at you then
speaks. ‘But He ordered “Alive if possible’. He
wants something or some information. He even
ordered “intact and unsearched”. If He finds out we
took the valuables ‘

You feel in your pouch for the gold and Gems.
Whatever you had has gone. Deduct all Gold Coins
and Gems from your Adventure Sheet.

The Garks argue over your fate and do not notice a
two-headed Serpent weaving its way towards them
and you. Suddenly the Serpent breathes two sheets
of flame at your captors and the cage. The Garks
scream in terror as the flames engulf them. The
wooden cage is completely destroyed. If you have
any Black Cubes in your possession, turn to 372. If
not, then turn to 71.

a —__—____________.

26

26

The Dwarf seems to know exactly where he is
going. You dodge past two Ores and then stand
stock-still by a large oak-tree. The guards and sol-
diers begin to run away from you. You are amazed
and are wondering why when, suddenly, a group
of riders bursts into the camp. They are an irregular
mass that seem to fight with a terrifying ferocity.
They are all female and the one shouting orders
rides on the back of two Fangtigers. They crash
through the Goblins and Orcs heading for the oak-
tree. You are picked up and find yourself on the
back of a horse riding away from the camp. They
eventually stop by the roadside and the leader
comes over and looks at you carefully. She curses,
finds the Dwarf and then hits him over the head.
‘Fool, we've rescued the wrong onc. . . gave youa
good drawing and you . . .” The Dwarf is struck
again and starts to run off. She kicks him and then
comes over to you. ‘Apologies, you are not the one
we expected. Buta rescue isa rescue. It’ll cost you 40
Gold Coins, or, say, 3 Blue Gems, or 4 Yellow Gems.
I'm afraid it’s pay up or give my mercenaries some
entertainment.’ If you can afford to pay up and wish
to, make the appropriate adjustments on the Adven-
ture Sheet. You are left alone on the read. Turn to 59.
If you cannot afford the price or do not wish to pay,
turn to 84.

27-28

27
You dodge away as a sword grazes the leather of
your armour. You see an armed Goblin who’s hold-
ing three black bottles in one hand. His mouth is
open as if to scream but no sound comes out. You
attack,

GOBLIN SKILL6 STAMINA 6

If you win, you notice that the two Orcs have
collapsed, insensible, on the floor. You look around
but ftnd no one else about. You set off up the stairs
Turn to 193.

28

You can sense the axe being raised and hear the
swing as it cuts the air above your head but you do
not move a muscle. Nothing happens. The monk
then asks you to open your eyes, You see the axe-
head a hair’s breadth from your temple. ‘Without
trust there is nothing. A fine spirit dwells within
you. Now sit here.’ He points to a grassy bank. He
sits cross-legged, shuts his eyes and makes a box-
like sign with his hands. He murmurs something in
a strange tongue. Turn to 256.

29-30

29

You prefer to stay outside. You watch the small
Dragonmen begin to squawk at the adult creature.
The Dragonman roars at the youngsters; they
scuttle under its wings, The Dragonman then
breathes a fearful fire that engulfs you. Test your
Luck. If you are Unlucky, you step backwards and
fall into a very deep pit. You die instantly. Your
mission ends here. If you are Lucky, you avoid the
pit and run through the flames into the cave (deduct
1 Black Cube or 4 points from your STAMINA), Turn
to 115.

30 ;
You run fast as the schizoid Genie sends fireballs
crashing all round you

Throw a die six umes to mark your random posi-
tions on the run. Mark the series on the Adventure
Sheet. Now throw a second series of six dice and
mark the result under the previous one. This is
where the fireballs strike. If any in the series match,
you are badly hit; deduct 1 from your §k11.1. and 4
from your STAMINA. If you are hit twice, you die.
Your quest ends here.

lf you survive, you manage to escape. A plaintive
voice calls after you, ‘I'm sorry, come back!’ You do
not stop running. Turn to 176.

eee eee el

31-32

31

You run into the darkness but you can still hear the
Giant lumbering after you, shouting ‘Djakk’ and
‘Fee-fi-fo-fum’. You can see nothing in the dark but,
just then, you feel something at your feet. It seems
to be a thick creeper growing downwards into an-
other chamber. Do you climb down the creeper
(turn to 134) or do you wish to continue along the
cave (turn to 13)?

42

Out in the fresh air again, you hurry back to the
village. Peg-Leg is still sitting where you last saw
him. He holds a mug of beer up in mock salute. You
go into the trading-post, The owner is impressed
with your haul and is quite happy to hand over the
Gold Coins in return for your Gems and Crystals.
(Convert your Gems and Crystals into Gold Coins
and then deduct 500 Gold Coins from your Adven-
ture Sheet.) You leave the shop and hand the heavy
bag over to Peg-Leg. He takes the gold. ‘I won't
count it, I trust you. Now you'll be wanting your
property.’ He whistles and a small monkey drops
down from the tallest tree on to your shoulder and
hands you the Torch. ‘He stole it in the first place; {
suppose the money is his,’ Peg-Leg tells you, un-
able to restrain his laughter. He takes the monkey
back and limps away. You are angry at the delay,
You set off again. You notice the Bracelet glows
TWICE, (Mark the penetration of rwo Citadel Walls
on the Adventure Sheet.) Turn to 131.

33-34

33
Cautiously, you move towards the chest. It has now

sunk much further into the morass but you can see
the glimmer of Gold Coins and Gems. You can just
prise it open enough to get a hand in. Throw a die to
see what you manage to get out before the chest
sinks into the marsh, If you throw 1—2, you pull out
10 Blue Gems; 3-4, you grab 10 Multi-Coloured
Gems; and if you throw 5-6, you get 100 Gold
Coins, You pull out your last handful and watch the
chest sink into the mire. Mark the addition on the
Adventure Sheet.

Carefully you make your way out of the marsh.
Turn to 292

34
You walk along the tunnel and have the feeling that

someone is watching you. You turn round to find
Jaxartes standing in front of three Mage Warriors.
But just then, the Mage Warriors begin to wilt,
slowly collapsing until they are small black bundles

;
ee ee

35-37

on the ground. Jaxartes is angry, ‘Now, I must do it
myself.’ He waves his arm and the tunnel collapses
on top of you. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, you
survive but are badly injured. Deduct 2 sKILL
points and 6 STAMINA points. You get out of the
rubble and crawl along the tunne! after Jaxartes.
Turn to 381. If you are Unlucky, you are crushed.
You fail to complete your mission.

35
You stab at the ring of flesh. It cuts easily but you are
spattered by the green slime. You rip through.
Throw a die for the number of drops that land on
you. Deduct the result from your STAMINA. You
run off along the beach. Turn to 97

36

Looking out over the mountain top, you see thick
smoke emanating from what you guess must be the
Fangs of Fury. Just then, you hear the sound of large
wings flapping and see three Dragonmen flying
towards you, each holding a curved blazing sabre. If
you possess Elf-wings, put them on now, turn to
373. If not, turn to 304.

37
You fail and unfortunately your whole team fails

also. The Elves cheer you none the less (some have
staked money that you would lose). You are given 1
Blue Gem for taking part (mark it on your Adventure
Sheet), and you are given a guide out of the Battle-
eround of the Giants. Turn to 294.

38

38

You get into the boat. The prisoners are given the
oars and chained up. The two Goblins begin to whip
them as you set off into the crashing surf. You keep
up with the second boat until you get about half-
way across to the island, then the waves get bigger
and the boat begins to take on water. The prisoners
are told to bail out the water but the waves keep
filling the boat up again. It begins to look as though
the boat will sink and the Goblins and other guards
abandon it, swimming towards the second boat.
The prisoners are still chained up and you try to
help them but can do nothing as the boat slowly
sinks and then turns over. You too have to swim to
the other boat.

Throw two dice for the strength needed to get there
If this is greater than your STAMINA, then deduct 3
STAMINA points and throw again. Repeat until you
make it or perish, exhausted in the crashing waves.
If you succeed, you climb on to the other boat. Turn
to 305.

nT

39

39
The cavern is huge. A bridge across a chasm leads to

a vertical row of seven entrances on the right.
Suddenly, out of a smoky mist in front of you, there
appear two monks making the sign of the cube
with their hands. At first they are mere phantoms
but gradually they become more solid. You hear
two sing-song voices chanting in harmony, ‘Wel-
come stranger to the Fangs of Fury, the centre of the
Wazarri and the Religion-whose-name-cannot-be-
uttered, and at whose core lives the Flame. If you
have been shown the Way and have accumulated
White Cubes in your mind’s eye, then place the
number you have in the indicated position.’ A shim-
mering pattern appears, tracing stairways up to all
Seven Levels. ‘Now climb to your own Level. We
deem you worthy to enter the core of Fury: you will
not be harmed by the holy Flame.” The monks fade
away.

Add up the numbers you have entered in the White
Cube box of the Adventure Sheet to find your True
40-41

Level. If you have no knowledge of White Cubes,
then you must enter at Level 1. If you have more
than 28, then you must enter at Level 7. Which
Level is your True Way?

White Cubes

1-2 = Level 1 Turn to 299
3-5 = Level 2 Turn to 57
6-9 = Level 3 Turn to 79
10-14 = Level 4 Turn to 165
15-20 = Level 5 Turn to 191
21-27 = Level 6 Turn to 357
28+ = Level 7 Turn to 396

40
You are in a completely empty chamber. There are
three exits. Do you choose:

Exit 1? Turn to 342

Exit 2? Turn to 135

Exit 3? Turn to 349
41

You lie under a foul-smelling clump of bushes for a
while, and see the Bracelet glowing (mark a Citadel
Wall captured by Ostragoth’s forces on the Adven-
fure Sheet).

You watch several squads of cavalry and infantry go
past you in battle formation. Just then you see a little
vagabond standing in front of you. He’s about 7 or 8
years old. ‘I’ve been watching you. You're hiding
from them soldiers. You give me something or I'll

42-43

tell them.’ You decide to give him 1 Gold Coin
(deduct it from your Adventure Sheet). He seems
satisfied but then speaks again. “You want to get
away from here? I know a way. It'll cost you 4 more
Gold Coins.’ Do you agree (turn to 127) or are you
content just to buy his silence and sneak away (turn
to 150)?

42
You pick up 1 Black Cube (add it to the Cube box of
your Adventure Sheet),

Suddenly, the cavern is filled with dust and a huge
stone block falls from the ceiling above you. Test
your Luck. If you are Unlucky, it crushes you. Your
quest ends here. If you are Lucky, it misses but you
are badly shaken (deduct 1 point from your SKILL).
Tum to 246,

43
You think that the four Orcs are far more danger-

ous, but before you can join the woman you see
an amazing display of swordfighting. Four clean
blows are enough. Then, as she turns towards you,
you feel a stabbing pain in your back. The Goblin
has struck at you (deduct 1 point from your SKILL
and 4 points from your STAMINA). The woman
deals with the creature and then drags you toa tent.
In the corner lies another dead body and next to it an
open chest with all your possessions including the
Torch. She does not say anything but motions for
you to pick up your things. Turn to 203.
44-45

44
You stop and sit inside the dark cave. Add 2

STAMINA points. Suddenly, a black hairy feeler
wraps itself around your neck. You prise it off and
pull out your sword. You are facing a large round
black creature with seemingly innumerable feelers
that shiver and shake at you,

BLACK FEELER BEAST SKILL6 STAMINA6

If you win, you notice the Bracelet glowing (mark
another captured Citadel Wall on your Adventure
Sheet). You scamper out and carry on climbing. Turn
to 261.

et

a, ?
Ay yer

-.

You are led to the ship through a maze of alleyways.
You are met on the corner opposite the quay. There
are two ships in harbour. The one on the left is the
Gargu-Ran. The organization is very efficient: you
are handed a bale with three others and you carry it
aboard. A sailor asks you for 5 Gold Coins (deduct
them from your Adventure Sheet) and you are told to
get below. The ship is soon under way and you
depart from Karakum Island. Turn to 132.

46-47

46

Stealthily, you work your way to a point that has
geod cover and slip into the cold water. As you start
to swim, the Bracelet glows (mark a captured Cit-
adel Wall on the Adventure Sheet). The water is fast-
flowing but you are grateful that there is no surge, a
well-known phenomenon on the Potamos river.
Half-way across, however, you feel a slight tremor
and before you know it a wall of water lifts you up
and pushes you along down-river. Throw two dice
to indicate the power of the surge. If this is greater
than your STAMINA then you are carried along fora
great distance. Deduct 2 STAMINA points, turn to
313. [f your sTAMIN A is greater than or equal to the
power of the surge, then you manage to get across
the river. You find cover, dry yourself, and then set
off again along the road. Turn to 272.

47
The Flame burns with an intense heat that takes you

by surprise. You are weakened by the fire but you
begin to suffocate as the blaze uses up all the air.
You collapse and die. Your quest ends here,
48-49

48
You know that there is Evil magic here and guess
that the Wand might be useful. You pull it out and
stare at it. By some unknown power it produces a
shaft of light that makes it look like a sword. You
slice through the branches and stumble out of the
magic woods. Turn to 392.

49
They grab you and one of them holds a strange
round mirror up to your face, The Goblin looks at
you. ‘No, not of noble birth. Let’s see. . . Bring the
Book.’ A large book is brought and he flicks through
it very deliberately. You notice that it is full of
drawings of King Elidor’s knights, squires and
nobles. You also see representations of the twelve
Wizards. ‘No, there’s no such face and I cannot
detect Magic Illusions. Release the prisoner! You
will be taken to Captain Stinger and you will be
allowed to take your chances with the Irregulars.’
Just then, the Bracelet glows (mark a captured
Citadel Wall on your Adventure Sheet). Turn to 101.

590-51

50
The Giant drops you into a large sack. He walks off
humming something like ‘Fee-fi-fo-fum’. Inside the
sack there are various bits of animals, vegetables
and lumps of coal. After a long time all the contents
of the sack are upended. You fall on to a rocky floor
and find yourself ina cave with a large blazing fire at
the entrance. The rest of the cave is strewn with all
manner of rubbish, You lookat the Giant. He has sat
down and is staring at you as he munches at a piece
of cow. He then speaks in a booming voice, ‘Where
is Djakk?’ He looks at you expectantly and then puts
on a high voice, ‘I don’t know.’ He repeats the
question, ‘Where is Djakk?’ You think that he is
demented. Do you humour him and give him a
location for Djakk, whoever he might be (turn to
186}, or do you tell him you don’t know (tum to

323)?
Sf,
51

The body of a monk falls into your arms. He is
wounded in the throat but is still alive. You lay him
down on the floor. He looks at you and smiles. ‘Yes,

you are the ... spoken of ... you must... go
upstairs... the door. . . be careful... donot...
the door . . . No.’ The monk’s smile fades and he

dies. You look around the room, see nothing else,
then go outside. Turn to 251.

ee
52

52

You pull out your sword and run up the stone stairs.
The small boy is screaming. You reach the top and
the Dragonmen fly away in surprise. You chop at
the chains and the boy breaks free, then looks up at
you and begins to laugh. Suddenly, his whole body
bursts open and magicaily another Dragonman
appears. All three then gather together and attack
Fight each in turn.

SKILL STAMINA

First DRAGONMAN 8 10
Second DRAGONMAN 8 10
Third DRAGONMAN 9 8

If you survive, you notice the Bracelet glowing as
you climb down the tower (mark a captured Citade|
Wall on the Adventure Sheet), You look around. Do
you decide to head for a flat-topped mountain to
your left (turn to 194) or the track to your right (turn

to 99g)?

53-54

The Elves take you back to the point where you met
them. Then they glide off a cliff and disappear from
sight. There is no distinct path to follow and the
going is very tough. After a few hours you get very
tired (deduct 2 points from your STAMINA) and
notice the Bracelet glowing (mark a captured Cit-
adel Wall on the Adventure Sheet). Eventually, you
notice smoke coming from somewhere deep down
in a canyon. Do you decide to climb down (turn to
212) or do you ignore it and keep on climbing up
(turn to 264)?

You follow the left-hand tunnel. But after several
hundred paces it begins to break up. The walls
become soft sand and you sink into a sandy mire
up to your knees. Walking becomes very difficult
(deduct 2 points from your STAMINA), Suddenly,
something slithers around your foot. You hear a
swishing sound as tentacles appear out of the sand.
One of them stings you (deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA). You strike at the wet sand hoping to hit
the creature.

Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, you cut the crea-
ture’s tentacles. If you are Unlucky, throw a die for
the number of stings you suffer and then deduct 2
STAMINA points for each sting. If you throw a 6,
you must deduct 1 point from your SKILL as well.

You carry on in the dark. As you reach out, your
hand comes into contact with a Star Crystal and you

55-56

take it (add it to the Gem box of your Adventure
Sheet). Finally you are brought toa halt by what feels
like a mound of sand and you have no other option
but to dig your way out. Turn to 199.

wy,
4 ,

pte oF Mir p
Sets

f a ths
P ae ’

od

You are ina cave with a large metal door. In front of
the door are six square holes marked: Triangle,
Crescent Moon, Cross, Circle, Box, and Mushroom
If you have any blocks, place them in the correct
holes. If you have all six, add up the numbers on the
reverse sides and turn to that paragraph.

If you don’t have all the blocks you must return into
the caves. Leave the blocks you have here. Deduct 4
points from your STAMINA. The Bracelet on your
wrist glows. Mark another Citadel Wall captured on
your Adventure Sheet. There is one open exit (turn to
349).

56
You reach the clump of rocks just as three Wolves
jump out of the bushes. You pull out your sword
but not before one of them has sunk its fangs into
57

your leg (deduct 2 points from your STAMINA).
You kill the first Wolf with one blow, then wait for
the other two to attack. Fight each in turn.

SKILL STAMINA
First WOLF 7 6
Second WOLF | 6

If you survive, you cannot hear your pursuers. You
must now decide on a direction to take. Do you
choose the sandy coast just ahead (turn to 197) or do
you prefer to take a track heading west (turn to 267)?

57
You enter on Level 2. You stand in an intricately

carved cave. A voice echoes from a distance. “The
Way is hard for a stranger to the Religion-whose-
name-cannot-be-uttered.’ Suddenly, three fire-
breathing Serpents fall out of the ceiling and come
to life in front of you. They attack. Fight each in turn

SKILL STAMINA

First FLAME SERPENT 6 7
Second FLAME SERPENT 7 7
Third FLAME SERPENT 8 6

If you survive, turn to 387.

58-61

58

You make your way along the track, When you hear
hoofbeats, you quickly take cover. Suddenly, a
horse gallops towards you dragging an Ore with his
foot caughtin the stirrup. The horse stops in front of
you. The Orc is dead and you release his foot, Do
you take the horse (turn to 181) or leave it where it is
(turn to 194)?

59
You make good progress on the road but you are

still cautious of troops. You pass a watering trough.
Do you choose to take a drink (turn to 14) or ignore it
and carry on (turn to 352)?

60
You sit back and take a rest (add 2 STAMINA
points). You watch the people heading off to the left
to the sound of trumpets and snorting horses. Do
you get up to investigate (turn to 158) or do you
wish to stay where you are (turn to 269)?

61

You walk into a dark tunnel. A figure moves in front
of you then speaks in a cultivated voice. It is the
rich, melodic voice of the Evil Wizard. “You want to
fight with swords, I will fight you with a sword.’ He
pulls out a gleaming scimitar and attacks. Fight as
normal, but you cannnot kill a Wizard with sword-
play. He, on the other hand, can kill you!

JAXARTES SKILL 10 STAMINA 12
62

If you survive, the Wizard laughs, gets up and
disappears. The tunnel slopes downwards and then
forks. Which branch do you take: the left (turn to
229) or the right (turn to 393)?

62

You walk down the stream. It just covers your
ankles and keeps your feet nicely cool (add 1
STAMINA point). You keep your eye on several
large birds that are soaring at a great height but then
you can see nothing as the stream enters a forest. At
that moment, the Bracelet glows (mark a captured
Citadel Wall on your Adventure Sheet). You stay in
the water until you come to a waterfall. The stream
pours into a deep craggy pool below. Ahead, the
forest is spread out like a green tapestry but you
must climb down the cliff before you can continue.
If you have Elf-wings, turn to 344. If not, then turn
to 196.

wee
‘ j
i” yp Je
. 7 £0;
. oe
. ’

63-64

“4

+
63

You raise your sword. The Giant sniggers and
swings his club over his head then attacks.

GIANT SKILLQ

If you survive, you wait for the flames to die down
before venturing out of the cave. You stumble out
and notice the Bracelet glowing on your wrist (mark
a Citadel Wall captured on the Adventure Sheet). You
look around and see a forest by the side of a grassy
plain. Both are vaguely in the direction you wish to
travel. Which do you choose: the forest (turn to 210)
or the plain (turn to 282)?

STAMINA 10

64
Occasionally, the child begins to cry but then sud-
denly remembers herself and is once again rather
outspoken. “You’re a bit dirty. You should have a
jolly good wash.’

She leads you on a meandering path into the plain
that lies below the low mountains. It is completely
encircled by a wall of fire. Outside the wall you see a
contingent of Goblins and Dark Elves. They have
several catapults firing stones at the fort. The girl
leads you to the edge of the flame wall.

Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 119. If you
are Unlucky, turn to 239.
65-67

65

You walk among the reeds. The ground gets softer
and soon you are having to step on clumps of reeds
and grasses to stop yourself falling into a marsh-like
ground. Eventually, you find a set of irregular step-
ping stones and begin to follow them. After a short
time, several scaly, clawed hands begin to appear
out of the swamp. They stretch and claw at you.
Then two Fiend-like heads appear, blinking as
though they have woken from a deep sleep. They
clutch at you but without any real strength. Some-
thing screams in the far distance just as the path of
stones divides in two. Both paths head in the
general direction of the Citadel. Which do you take:
the left (turn to 146) or the right (turn to 178)?

66
You chop at the tentacle. It falls in your lap exuding
a nasty-smelling green slime that begins to choke
you. Then three more tentacles appear and wrap
themselves round your neck and body. You are
dragged into the deep. You cannot escape the
clutches of the Giant Octopod. Your quest is over.

67
You follow the right-hand river valley. It gets very
overgrown and you have to start chopping your
way through it. Suddenly, you hear an agonized
yowl. You plunge your sword into the bush in front
of you again and there is a similar scream, then long
trailing creepers shoot out and begin to wrap them-
selves around your body. Spiky thorns begin to cut

i

68

you. You realize that the bush is a creature and
begin to fight it.

UNDERGROWTH SKILL 4

If you survive, you notice more quivering bushes
ahead. You think that it might be better to retrace
your steps and head for one of the other two valleys.
Which do you choose: the left valley (turn to 126) or
the central one (turn to 200)?

STAMINAQ

68

You struggle through the gap and drop into a dank, —

damp corridor. A murky light appears in the dis-
tance. You trudge onwards, occasionally tripping
over small, furry creatures. You walk for many
hours until you reach a stone-built corridor. Just
then, the Bracelet glows (mark another captured
Citadel Wall on the Adventure Sheet). At the end of
the corridor is a wooden door. You find that it opens
easily. Turn to 279.

69-70

69
The door opens easily to reveal what you guess to be
& Wizard's den. Someone lies in the corner clutch-
ing an empty bottle and muttering. You look
around quickly. There are all sorts of magical sub-
stances but you don’t want to dabble in things you
don’t understand. You notice an object lying on the
table that you know must be a Wand. If you wish to,

you may take the Wand and mark it on the Adven-
ture Sheet,

There is no other exit so you leave by the same door.
Outside, do you choose to enter the other door (turn
to 202) or go up the staircase (turn to 351)?

70
You run smartly over to the group and lend your
weight to the struggle to push the huge wooden
wheels out of the sand. With a great deal of effort
and a lot of shouting from the sergeant you succeed
(deduct 1 point from yourstamtNna), You push the
catapult beside some others and leave it there.

Before you have a chance to slip away, an Orc
mounted on a black charger gallops up and hisses at
the group of men and women you are with, He
71

points to you and several others, ‘Come with me,
scum. You’re lucky to be away from the battlefield.
I’ve seen you shiver and shake as we Orcs do the
real fighting.’ He rides round the group, hurling
abuse and then points to a tower in the distance and
tells you to get there sharpish, ‘or I'll have your guts
for gauntlets’. You trot off with the others. You pass
several bushes and gnarled trees. Do you choose to
slink off and hide in one of the bushes (turn to 41) or
do you continue with the group (turn to 386)?

71
The fact that you are sopping wet helps but the

flames from the Serpent heads are intense. The cage
breaks up and the two Garks begin to scream. Test
your Luck. Jf you are Unlucky, the flames are just too
much for you. You perish and so do your hopes of
the quest. If you are Lucky (deduct 1 SKILL point
and 4 points from your STAMINA), you manage to
break out of the conflagration and hurl yourself into
the stream. You turn back to see the Garks’ final
agonies. You set off as fast as possible. Turn to 133.

72-73

72
You leap up on to the knight’s horse and nde
through the mélée. Arrows are fired at you. Some
pass over your shoulder. Test your Luck. If you are
Unlucky, one arrow hits you in the shoulder but
you pull it out easily (deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA).

You try to ride away from the fighting but two
mounted Orcs begin to give chase. You set off at a
gallop across the battlefield.

Throw two dice for your speed on the horse and
then throw two dice again for the speed of the Orcs.
If their speed is greater,than yours, they catch up
with you (turn to 123); otherwise, you escape (turn

to 335).

The rock slips under you and hurtles down into the
pass, crashing into the echoing chasm. You have no
choice but to scramble up to the top and face the
Mage Warriors. They see you and immediately pull
out Wands which transform into fine blue-tinged
swords. If you have a Wand, you may fight as
normal. If not, then deduct 3 points from your
SKILL for this combat only.

SKILL STAMINA
First MAGE WARRIOR 8 10
Second MAGE WARRIOR 9 10

If you survive, you continue along the clifftop. Turn
to 36.
74-75

74
You hear some very strange noises as you trudge

along. You come to a sudden drop into a small river
valley. In front of you is a tal] tree that has an
inscription carved on it. You look at it carefully:

RAY

Do you scramble down towards the river (turn to
270) or climb the tree and look around (turn to 322)?

75
He explains that above you lies the village of

Teriyakit. He also explains that his job is that of
muck-shoveller. ‘No one else will do it,’ he says. He
shows you the way out by a rope Jadder hanging
against the side of a wall. You thank him and climb
the ladder. You find yourself in the fresh air and
also in the central square of the village. Looking
around, you see two inns and feel an almost instant
need for refreshment. Which inn do you choose: the
Ferret’s Claws (turn to 169) or the Gannet’s Nest
(turn to 122)?

76-77
76

You are in a cave with an inscription carved into a
wooden plaque:

REET LALLA RS

There are four exits to the cave. Do you choose:

Exit 1? Turn to 107
Exit 2? Turn to 241
Exit 3? Turn to 366
Exit 4? Turn to 395

77
The cart pulls up just below you. You cannot see

who is inside but just then a horseman rides to-
wards the cart. The rider is wearing a long black
cape with a large hood. The mounted figure stops
by the cart and the driver hands over a small chest.
The rider passes a rolled-up parchment to him.
Nothing is said. They then part. Do you decide to
follow the rider who is walking his horse carefully
along the rocks (turn to 371), do you follow the cart
(turn to 136) or do you choose to steer clear of both
of them and get on with your mission (turn to 12)?
! 78-79

78

You hack at the chains. Your sword is well-
tempered but cannot cut through the hard metal.
Suddenly, a war-chariot appears in the distance and
hurtles down towards you. You strike at the chains
even harder.

Throw five dice and total the result, this is the
strength of the chains. Throw two dice and the
result is the strength of the sword. Add this to your
STAMINA, If the chain strength is greater than that
of the blade and your STAMINA, tum to 190. If it is
equal or less, then turn to 324.

79
You enter on Level 3 and stand inside an intricately

carved cormdor. A voice echoes from a great dis-
tance, ‘This Way is hard but there is hope. Mark the
name-that-cannot-be-uttered.’ Just then two metal
grilles drop down and isolate you. A pedestal ap-
pears in front of you with an inscription and num-
bers under each letter. You look at it carefully,
trying to make sense of it:

THERE 15 NO ESCAPE
32547 76 34 989761
BUT A NON EXIT IN
234 4 661 1399 22
REVERSE
5223034
Suddenly, small sharp metal spikes begin to drop

; =
80

into the cage area. You press at the numbers. If you
know which numbers to press, go to that section.
You will be told at once if you are correct. If you fail,
you are hit on the head (deduct 4 points from your
STAMINA). You feel dizzy, then find yourself enter-
ing another Level. Turn to 299.

Bo

You are very suspicious of him so you decide not to
talk to him. Just then a troop of five Goblins led by a
Dark Elf arrive. They stop, approach one of the
other guards and show him a parchment. He nods,
pulls out his sword and they all walk towards you.
You are bewildered. How could they know? Then
you remember Astragal’s warming about the traitor
and realize that it must be someone very high up.
You scamper off into cover. Turn to 111.

81-82

81

There is no way out of the chasm but to climb out.
You look for handholds or footholds. Throw a series
of four dice and note the result on the Adventure
Sheet. These are the footholds. Then throw a dice
to match each of those numbers and deduct 1
STAMINA point for each failure to match. This is
your struggle to reach the footholds. If you succeed,
turn to 195.

You make the deal and pull out your sword. You
approach the Orcs as they are loading a large sack
on to the cart. They see you, drop the sack and
attack. Fight each in turn.

SKILL STAMINA
First ORC 7 6
Second ORC 7 6

If you survive, the Elder hands you 20 Gold Coins
{add these to your Adventure Sheet total). You ask
how they intend fending off the other Orcs. He
replies that they will hide everything at once and tell
the others that these Orcs have made off with the
goods; a typical Orc trick apparently. He shakes
your hand and you walk briskly out of the village.
Turn to 316.
83-84

eae |
ee |
“y Usp
fn oS”
” Inn Tes
a
aS
oN “eS ’
“~<a!
83

You find yourself next to the smiling monk. He
looks at you and whispers without moving his lips.
‘Trust, that is the Way. Tell me, do you have the
Torch?’ Do you tell him the truth (turn to 263) or do
you think it might be a trick and so refuse to speak
(turn to 391)?

84

Ina large clearing surrounded by rocks, the mercen-
aries light a ring of fire. You stand in the middle and
watch them as they rub their hands with glee and
make bets on how long they think you will survive.
Suddenly, two Fangtigers are released into the
cirele of fire. They prow! round you then attack,
Fight each in turn.

SKILL STAMINA
FirstF ANGTIGER 5 9
Second FANGTIGER 6 8

If you survive, the group, somewhat subdued and
disappointed, mount their horses and ride off with-
out another word. But the circle of fire has mean-
while grown in intensity. You cannot wait for it to

85-86

die down for fear of Orcs, so are forced to jump
through the wall of fire. If you have a Black Cube,
turn to 348. If not, then turn to 296.

85
You ride away. Throw two dice to indicate your
speed and then throw two dice for the speed of your
pursuer. If your speed is greater than or equal to
hers, then you leave her behind (turn to 206). If her
speed is the greater, then you are forced to fight
(turn to 255).

86

You look into the water but can see no sign of the sea
creature. Suddenly you realize that you are moving
off the ground, The sand shifts and you look down
to see the body of a Giant Crab beneath your feet. It
begins to fold its great claws back in order to get at
you. You leap off its back and land well. It gives
chase and you are forced to fight st

GIANT CRAB SKILL 7 STAMINAQG

If you survive, you run off after the woman. Turn to
144

87-88

87
At the end of the corridor there are two doors.
Which do you choose to enter? The one on the ieft
{turn to 266) or the one on the night (turn to 152)?

88

You discover that you can use your legs, You run
fast but can hear no sound of pursuit, only laughter.
Suddenly, you pull up short when you feel a stab-
bing pain (deduct 2 points from your STAMINA).
You turn to see a wispy trail of smoke. It pulls you
back to the Ores, ‘Aye, none can doubt it, His magic
is strong,’ says one of them. ‘And so are our boots,’
says the other as he kicks you (deduct 1 point from
your STAMINA). Tum to 205.

89-90

89

In the deep shadows you trip on a rock. There is a
general stirring among the Dragonmen and one of
them flaps over to where you lie, It breathes a shaft
of fire at you when it sees you. If you do not have 1
Black Cube, you are badly burt (deduct 1 skILL
point and 4STAMINA points); if you do, just deduct
1 Black Cube.

You run and grab the key, but it attacks you just as
you get it into the lock of the door.

DRAGONMAN SKILL9Q

If you survive, you get into the room and lock the
door behind you. Turn to 259

STAMINA 10

90
You sit and wait patiently. The tentacle slithers into
the boat and on to your body. The small suckers
scratch your arm slightly. You shiver but do not
move, even when you see the Bracelet glowing
(mark a captured Citadel Wall on the Adventure
Sheet). Eventually, the tentacle drops back into the
sea with a quiet plop and you begin to paddle
swiftly towards the island. You are being carried
away from the north-west of the island; do you put
ali your effort into landing where you were advised
(turn to 188) or do you let the current dump you
where it will (turn to 346)?
91-93

g1
You see one of the Sentinels break free from the
= Zamatra Citadel Walls. Then you see all six come
alive. They all set about the besieging army with the
most hideous ferocity until all is waste. The girl
takes the crystal from you. ‘You have saved the
Wizards and our sacred religion. Your deeds will be
\ celebrated in ballads for many ages to come among
the faithful. Our people are all but destroyed but
ha now we must look to the future.’ Turn to 400.

i x g2
} | You enter the volcano and find yourself in a torchlit
“ at chamber. There are two tunnels that lead off from
mi Sy here; they are both marked with an inscription.
le Yee pitta The left one is marked:
Nye 278
2 TIARLA
“aie ed D> The right one is marked:

swans: LUTAITAS

Which direction do you choose: the left (turn to 142)
or the right (turn to 360)?

93
‘Good! That scum. That’s the way to treat ’em.’

; Behind you stands a huge Goblin. You move
r; _} : quickly and try to shield your face from the other
prisoners. When the group get to the shore you see

a _______ ESTEE _____i__:;___—_sesei_ea8. --e—=z

94-95

two large boats. The prisoners are ordered into the
boats. The waves crash all around you and you see
bits of other boats littering the rocks. Two Goblins
get into each boat, but which craft do you choose:
the left one (turn to 38) or the right (turn to 160)?

94
You pull at the key. The ground gives way below
you and you drop into a stake-filled trench. A sharp
stake kills you instantly. Your quest is over.

‘Hungry, eh? Here’s some of my favourite.’ He
produces a runny, yellow, sticky gunge out of his
hat and hands it to you ona small wooden plate. It’s
not what you were expecting but nevertheless you
taste it. It makes you feel great (add 1 point to your
SKILL and. 6 points to your STAMINA). The boy
then disappears around a street comer. The vil-
lagers are taking a lively interest in you. Some
Rogue Catchers are looking at a parchment and
then at you. You decide to leave the village and do
so quickly. Turn to 398.

96-98

96
You put your head down to protect your face and
run as fast as you can through the flames. If you
have a Black Cube, turn to 350. If not, then turn to
105.

97
Eventually, you stop to rest (add 4 points to your

STAMINA). Sitting there, your eye is caught by the
glow of the Bracelet (mark a captured Citadel Wall
on the Adventure Sheet). Then, feeling refreshed,
you get up and carry on walking along a sandy
track. Turn to 267.

98
The road is dead straight. It leads to a small village.
You stop to rest outside the village (add 4STAMINA
points). Seeing some riders in the distance you hide
behind some rocks to let them pass. Just then, your
mind is plagued with worry about the Torch. You
have no idea why, but you decide to check that it is
safe. You reach to open the leather flap and find it
already loose and the Torch GONE! The most
important thing in your quest! Quickly, you begin
to retrace your steps but then you hear someone
cough behind you. You turn round to see a strange
man of nautical appearance. He has a wooden leg, a
patch over one eye, wears a three-cornered hat and
a bright green coat. ‘Beggin’ your pardon, but have
you lost something?’ You reply that you have. ‘Aah,
that is good. I believe it is an object similar to a torch.
[have it. Come!’ He stomps off towards the village.
99-100

Do you attack and search him (turn to 147) or follow
him as requested (turn to 370)?

You follow the track for several hundred paces. It
leads to a gap between a vast outcrop of rock that
forms a massive wall in front of you. You know that
if Ostragoth and Jaxartes wish to stop you getting
to the Fangs of Fury, this would be a good place to
guard. Do you continue through the pass (turn to
116) or begin to climb the rock (turn to 368)?

100
You keep your eyes to the ground and spot 5 Multi-
Coloured Gems which you take (add them to your
Adventure Sheet). You carry on but can hear furtive
movements and some heavy breathing. The tunnel
forks again. Do you go left (turn to 268) or night (turn

to 157)?

IO1

; | & *
ere

i
~

101

You are marched toa large field full of men, women,
children, Orcs, Ogres, every type of creature. There
is no apparent military order. Everyone wears an
assortment of armour and you see an amazing
range of weapons, some that you recognize as
Zamarran. The Goblin speaks to one of the
roughest-looking men there. He sits on a rock mas-
saging his feet. The Goblin then leaves. The man,
who’s also very fat, gets up and waddles over to
you. He calls two others to join you. He faces you,
‘So you want to join our illustrious regiment. In
normal times we would accept none but the most
high-born but, seeing as there’s a war on,’ the other
two are sniggering and laughing, ‘just give me all
your money and you're in.’ Do you refuse to give
them your gold, which is your only option if you
have no gold (turn to 148), give them half your Gold
Coins (turn to 328) or agree to give them all your
gold (turn to 19)?

102

102

They take you to their house. The old man asks the
girl to prepare for her trip and when she skips away
he introduces himself as Ono-maki, a monk of the
Wazarri. The girl, he explains, is his ward. She is
due to travel to the great monastery for initiation.
‘But these times are dangerous, the old religion is
deemed heretical by those that conquer. | hope that
you are the One that legends speak of but neverthe-
less I must put you to the Test.’ You agree to be
tested. He takes you to a room full of circles painted
on the floor and hands you a cube with dice mark-
ings.

9

o 8

007

000 6

900005

000004

oO00000 3

00000002

eoo00000001
Aoooooooodn

You stand on circle A. Ono-maki explains that you
must throw the cube to find your True Path and to
indicate the Awareness of your Being. Throw a die.
If you throw 1-3, move up by one circle. If you
throw 4 or 5, move right by one circle. If you throw a
6, do not move and deduct 1 point from your
STAMINA. Repeat as many times as it is necessary
to get to Levels 1-9.

103

If you achieve Levels 1 or 2, turn to 314. If you
achieve Levels 3 or 4, turn to 343. If you achieve
Levels 5—9, turn to 247.

103
You do not understand what he means but taking
just enough Gold Coins for your immediate needs
you hurry on through the trapdoor and keep your
eyes shut. The tunnel is very long and twisting and
eventually leads you into a wide space. You still
have your eyes closed when something breathes
down your neck, drags a huge claw across your
chest and then around your throat, You do not dare

open your eyes but you are left to stumble out
unhindered. Turn to 32.

104-105

104
You reach a slight rise and look towards the flame.
You see a female knight standing on top of a hill
surrounded by creatures from Ostragoth’s armies.
The flame burns bright in the shape of a fist. You do
not hesitate to help her. You run up the hill and
plough into the back of three Garks. Fight each in
turn.

SKILL STAMINA
First GARK 7 11
Second GARK 7 11
Third GARK 7 11

If you survive, you look up and see that she has
made short work of the others. She is a supreme
fighter and you wonder idly what Captain Laski
would make of her. She greets you with a hand-
shake but does not speak, then she indicates that
you must follow her. Turn to 288.

Ma 4
ry “s te .
eee
105

You leap through the flames that burn your flesh.
You collapse on the other side of the wall of fire
(deduct 1 point from your $K1L1 and 5 points from
your STAMINA). You feel very weak so you rest for

106-107

a while, keeping watch for any more of those crea-
tures. The glow of the Bracelet (mark another Cit-
adel Wall breached on the Adventure Sheet) makes
you get up and hurry on along the path. Turn to 176.

106

You are assigned to work in the rigging. It appears
that you have to live and eat up there, taking orders
from below about which sail to unfurl and which to
hitch up. After several hours’ hard work, you hear
the crow’s-nest calling out, ‘Sail-a-starboard’, You
look in that direction and see a large ship that flies
no recognizable flag. It moves very fast and catches
you up in no time. One of your companions calls
out, ‘Pirates!’ They board the ship and the captain
gives up without a fight. They loot the ship and then
proceed to set light to it. Everybody is left to fend for
themselves. You leap into the ocean and begin to
swim towards an empty raft. Just then you see the
fin of a Slaughterer Shark cutting through the still
water. You make it in time and get on to the raft asa
thick mist settles (add 1 point to your LUCK score).
You sit there listening to the cries of the other
sailors. Turn to 297.

107
You are ina cave with blocks of stone marked witha
tnangle pattern. Each has the number 15 on its
reverse.

Each block weighs 10 Zamarra Weights, The most
you can carry is 60, If you wish to take a block, mark

108

the weight on the Adventure Sheet. Do not exceed
your maximum capability,

There are four exits from the cave. Do you choose:

Exit 1? Turn to 162

Exit 2? Turn to 76

Exit 3? Turn to 395

Exit 4? Turn to 262
108

You look around you. The alley is empty so you
walk downhill to the harbour. There are many
soldiers and sailors milling about. Just then, you see
three Ores riding towards the quayside. They are
wearng unusual black cloaks with large hoods and
constantly sniff the air. Then they begin to stop each
individual they see. You don’t know if your mission
is known to the enemy but you recall that Astragal
did mention something about a traitor. A Goblin
Starts ordering groups of soldiers into two lines,
They are irregularly dressed like yourself, and you
think that it will be safer to be among them than on
your own. Which line do you choose: the left (turn
to 227) or the right (turn to 394)?

— eee

109-111

109

You walk for many hours following a goat-track.
There is nobody about. You stop to rest in a good
defensive position on top of a grassy hillock {add 3
STAMINA points). You set off again and the goat-
track eventually meets a more defined cart-track.
You look at the track then see smoke rising from a
small village to the left. Do you carry on along the
track {turn to 365) or prefer to head into the village
(turn to 3)?

110

You swing your sword to no effect. It merely passes
through it like a shadow. The Fire Demon strikes its
scimitar at a table and slices it into two burnt
chunks. It advances to the sound of manic laughter.
Do you possess a Wand? If you do, then turn to
340. If you do not, then you run to the back of
the counter and cower with the others. Turn to
242,

111
You run fast, keeping silent, in a way that would
please Captain Laski. You hear no sound of pursuit,
but you notice the Bracelet glow (mark a captured
Citadel Wall on the Adventure Sheet). The forest gets
thicker and darker as you cross a small path that
leads to a stone hut. You stop to look at it carefully.
While you are watching, the door opens and an
emaciated man, dressed in rags with a broken chain
around his wrist, comes out. He calls out to you,
‘Come over here, quick!’ Do you go into the hut

112-113

(turn to 331) or do you carry on running through the
forest (turn to 177)?

112

You carry on along the road. The lack of any traffic
makes you suspicious that someone is stopping it at
the Potamos bridge up ahead. Sure enough, when
you get to within sight of the bridge, you see a
patrol. They have detained all passing individuals
in a small enclosure. You approach the road-block
carefully, moving from cover to cover. You know
that you cannot go back and that you must cross the
river. There are two simple options: run across the
bridge (turn to 221) or swim across the river (turn
to 46).

113
You run into the bulk of the arrows. Test your Luck. If
you are Unlucky, throw a die for the number of
arrows that hit you and deduct 3 sTAMIN a points
for each. If you are Lucky, only one arrow hits you,
You manage to pull it out (deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA),

You look back and see that the Goblin has been hit
by an arrow through the neck.

You know that you are conspicuous on your own so
you look around. You see a group of mounted Orcs
waiting for an attack, Some have attendants helping
them. Do you head towards this group and try to
lose yourself amongst them (turn to 280) or do you
follow a troop who are trotting towards a siege
catapult that is stuck on the beach (turn to 70)?
114-115

114

The tunnel opens out into a chamber that’s dimly lit
by small flames burning above you ina high ceiling.
It’s very hot and as you walk along you see rows and
rows of huge eggs. Each has 2 small Multi-Coloured
Gem sitting on its top. In the gloom ahead you see
the outline of a very large figure. Do you carry on
along the chamber and pick up the Gems (turn to
170) or do you decide to return to the other tunnel
(turn to 362)?

115
You run into the dark cave. By the murky light, you
can see a hoard of jewels and Gems but you do not
tarry to pick anything up, Sure enough the mouth of
the cave is immediately engulfed in flames. You run
deeper into the cave, fast and silent, until the roof
gets so low that you are forced to stoop. It is pitch
black and you walk on for many hours. Atone point
you see the Bracelet on your wrist glowing (mark
a captured Citadel Wall on the Adventure Sheet).

116

Eventually, you get to a chamber that is lit by the
glow of a strange green stone. You see a pool and
two boats. Two Marsh Goblins are swearing and
struggling with a large treasure chest. They finally
get it into one of the boats and row away. The pool
seems to be part of an underground river. You look
up and are startled to see daylight a long way above
you. There seems to be a possibility of climbing up.
Do you climb up the side of the cavern (turn to 264)
or do you get into the second boat and follow the
Marsh Goblins (turn to 234)?

116
You walk through the pass, moving cautiously from
cover to cover. When you have passed the most
exposed part you begin to relax but suddenly you
tread on a trap that springs a shower of crossbow
bolts from either side of you.

Throw a die six times and mark the series on the
Adventure Sheet. This is the random spray of bolts.
Now throw a die six more times to indicate your
random path to avoid the bolts. If two numbers
match in the series, you have been hit. Deduct 2
STAMINA points for each hit. If you deduct 8 or
more STAMINA points, then reduce your SKILL
by 1. If you have been hit, you pull out the bolts.

The noise awakens a group of Ores; they begin to
blow horns and charge out at you. Looking around,
you see a vast set of rock-hewn steps. Do you
choose to run up the steps (turn to 326) or do you
stand and fight (turn to 258)?

117-118

117

The tower looms up in front of you. You walk up to
it and find that it is derelict. Suddenly, a Dragon-
man bursts out of the tower walls and attacks you
with its great claws. If you have not seen one before,
it looks like a cross between a human and a Dragon.
It stands upright and has large flapping wings, a
spiky tail and strong claws at the end of its scaly
arms. It moves very fast. You hope your sword can
pierce the thick skin when suddenly the Dragon-
man breathes out a shaft of fire. If you have at least 1
Black Cube, you are unhurt (deduct 1 Black Cube
from the Adventure Sheet). If not, then deduct 4
points from your STAMINA Score.

DRAGONMAN SKILL9 STAMINA 10

If you survive, the fumes from the lifeless body
make you stagger and fall against some rocks. You
soon recover and find an old road that heads north.
Turn to 98.

118
You scramble up the pile of rubble. It moves under
you and, suddenly, you see bright sunlight. You
scamper up and at once hear gruff voices shouting
commands. Just then you slip, and a large warty
hand stretches down and helps you up. You stand
there blinking in the bright light and see a Goblin
smiling at you. Behind him a group of soldiers are
pushing a giant battering-ram against the huge
outer defences of the Citadel. There is dust and
119-120

smoke everywhere. You look down to see the
rubble move again and the hole you emerged from
seal itself. The Goblin shouts at you, ‘Watch your
step. Next time I'll let you get buried. Now, who are
you and what regiment are you marked for? | don’t
see any insignia.” Do you admit that you don’t have
4 regiment (turn to 289) or do you give him a name
(turn to 378)?

119

The girl picks up a flat stone and makes a sign with
her hands. An opening appears in the flame wall
and looking through it you see a path heading to the
fort. You both run into the opening. Two Goblins
spot you and give chase but they get caught when
the flame wall closes again. You can still hear their
screams when you enter the fort through a recently
opened metal door. Inside the fort a scene of devas-
tation confronts you. There are no more than a
dozen knights, a few squires and several children.
They stop and stare at you, more in wonder than
surprise, Then one of the squires comes over and
speaks to the girl. She nods and points to you. The
Squire bows and addresses you, ‘You have fulfilled
the Prophecy. The Wazarri know you as the
Torchbearer, the One chosen to rekindle the Flame
at the Fangs of Fury. Follow me.’ You thank the girl
and do as you are requested. Turn to 315.

120
You pick up a bale and walk up the gangplank with
a group of others. You drop the bale and begin to

121

help with the stacking, when suddenly a squad of
Ores march on to the ship. They bring aboard a
number of reluctant-looking sailors and fire orders
at them. You realize that you are on a ship that has
been commandeered by Ostragoth’s fleet. Three
Ores stand by the gangplank as you try to get off.
‘Where's your badge, scum?’ The others all have
small leather badges sewn on the inside of their
jerkins. You try to rush off but a strong scaly arm
stops you, “This one‘ll do to make up the numbers,’
is the last thing you hear before you are hit over the
head (deduct 2 points from your STAMINA) and
lose consciousness. Turn to 230.

121

You follow the road and notice the Bracelet glow
(mark a captured Citadel Wall on the Adventure
Sheet), The road gets wider and better made but you
S€€ no one on it until you spot someone sitting at its
side, He looks like a tinker and has a box open in
front of him. On seeing you he gets up, ‘Look at my
wares, You must buy!’ You think he might be a little
mad and on looking at his box, you are sure of it.
122~124

The box is full of curly bits of wire. You ask him
what they are. ‘The finest lock-picking devices in
Khul, yours for. . . 10 Gold Coins.’ If you can afford
it, do you wish to buy one (turn to 155) or do you
shrug him off and continue walking (turn to 257)?

122
The Gannet’s Nest is nota popular tavern. There are
a couple of Dwarfs and a few locals at the tables. In
the corner are three rough-looking men. They carry
an array of weapons and look like they've seen a few
battles. They laugh, swear and curse at a bald man
who’s trying to sell them some sort of trinkets. The
bald man is unperturbed. He passes you and asks if
you want to buy a crystal ball for good luck, ‘Only 1
Gold Coin.’ Do you agree (turn to 363) or refuse the
offer (turn to 213)?

123

You turn to fight. The Orcs seem a little surprised
that you should do so. The leading Orc growls at
vou, ‘I don’t care about you damn Irregulars, but
give us that horse, there’s good money there.’ Do
vou let the Orcs have your horse (turn to 355) or
refuse and prepare to fight (turn to 184)?

it
You dig up the bag from the sand and open it
carefully. Inside, you find three bones, a rotting
apple core, some claw clippings and a very hard
piece of bread. Just then, two other Great Orcs
appear. One of them shouts, ‘Gripper! Where is that

125-126

idiot?’ Then he sees you and the body. Fight each in
turn.

SKILL STAMINA
First GREAT ORC 74 6
Second GREAT ORC 7 6

If you survive, this ime you do not hang around.
You get away as fast as possible. Turn to 333.

us
r ’

125
You come to a river that runs parallel with the path
for a time and then weaves away. Your sense of
direction tells you to cross the river. Do you do so
(turn to 270) or do you wish to stay on the path (turn
to 217)?

126

You trudge down the dry river for a long time. It’s
very hot and you are plagued by particularly nasty
river-flies. Suddenly you hear the sound of rushing
water and, before you can move, a roaring torrent
crashes into you and carries you along. Large rocks
are also picked up by the water and they smash into
your body.

127

Throw a die for the number of rocks that hit you and
then a die for their size. Add the two numbers and
deduct this from your STAMINA. If you are still
alive, you are eventually dumped and the water
drains away. You crawl out of the river valley and
look around. The forest has thinned out to reveal a
road (turn to 121), and a small path leading to a
reedy plain (turn to 137). Which way do you

choose?

”

127
You know that he may have knowledge of a way
through the siege lines so you hand over the 4 Gold
Coins (deduct 4 Gold Coins from the Gold box on
your Adventure Sheet). He is pleased and tells you to
follow him. He takes you to a rocky cove and digs a
small boat out of the sand. The boy hands you an
oar and points to Karakum, the small island off the
coast. “Take the boat to the island. Land on the
north-west coast and then head for the port. There,
look out for the ship, the Gargu-Ran. Get on board
and work your passage. It'll take you away from
here and land you somewhere on the southern
coast.’ You suspect that the boy thinks you a de-
serter and it is obvious that you have stumbled on

128-129

an escape route away from Ostragoth’s conscrip-
tion. You get into the reed boat and paddle. Half-
way across, you hear a sucking sound and a large
tentacle appears over the side of the flimsy boat. Do
you chop at it (turn to 302) or sit patiently (turn
to go)?

128

‘Aye, that is your decision. We Elves of Aetos are
not malicious folk. We will release you where we
found you and if you are lucky you may escape from
the Battleground of the Giants. No one has ever
done so before. . .” Are you sure you still wish to be
released now (turn to 53)? If you change your mind,
turn to 6.

129

You mun fast but not before Snuffserk has pulled out
a dagger and stabbed you in the side (deduct 2
STAMINA points). Looking back, you see the image
of the Wizard fade. The Mage Warrior screams at
Snuffserk, ‘Fool, fool, you should have made sure!
You have been paid enough.’ He strikes his Wand-
sword at the traitor. You run away, fearing pursuit
or more trickery.

After a while, you catch your first glimpse of the
Fangs of Fury. Before you have had a chance to
marvel at the volcano, you hear heavy feet march-
ing on the rocks ahead. Do you dive to the left and
fall into a hole that seals above you (turn to 262) or
do you get into a small trench on the right (turn
to 325)?

130-131

130

You take pity on the old woman. She carries a small
tabby cat and strokes it as tears roll down her
cheeks. You getinto the large bucket and she lowers
you into the well. It is very gloomy but you can see
no sign of the fiddle. You are sure you hear cackling
laughter and then she shouts down into the echoing
deep. ‘There you are, my beauty, more food for
you.” Suddenly, a Horned Devil lunges out of the
water, grabs you and pulls you under. You already
have your sword out. Reduce your sKILL by 2 for
this combat only.

HORNED DEVIL SKILL 5 STAMINA 6

If you survive, you look up from the water and see
the rope still hanging down. Then you see a gap in
the stone blocks to the side of the well. What do you
choose to do: go through the gap (turn to 68) or
climb the rope {turn to 284)?

131
You reach the edge of the lower northern moun
tains. You follow the path for several hours and get

132-133

very lost. Eventually, you come to a tavern all on its
own in the rocky lowlands. ‘The Dwarf’s Hammer’
proclaims the sign. There seems to be no one about
and the door is locked. Do you bang on the door to
ask for directions (turn to 214) or carry on without
advertising your presence (turn to 290)?

132
You are made to stand in two lines by the bosun.
Throw a die. If you throw 1-3, you join the left line.
If you throw 4-6, the right line. You are then
addressed by the Captain, a small imposing man
with a patch over his good eye. He occasionally lifts
the patch to look at you. ‘Now I don’t want to know
who you are or why you are here and I’m sure
you've paid various people handsomely to get on
this ship. All I ask of you is good honest work and
rll put you down on some safe beach far away from
al] this slaughter. He decides on the work you are to
do. If you are on the left, turn to 306. If you are on
the right, turn to 106.

ot,
You come to a slight rise above a great road. You
jump down on to the cobbled route knowing that
you must make a decision: either follow the road
and take the consequences of being seen but get
there faster (turn to 376), or cross the road into the
plain that slopes up towards the northern moun-
tains and take a slower, less obvious, path (turn to
290). Which do you choose?

134-135

134

You clumb down the creeper. It is a long way and
seems to lead into a vast cavern. You finally reach
the bottom and then peer up into the gloom. The
Giant is climbing down after you. Do you choose to
hack the creeper down with your sword (turn to
327) or run off as fast as possible into the dark (turn
to 13)?

135

You are in a cave containing blocks of stone with a
cube shape on them and the number 22 inscribed on
the reverse.

Each block weighs 10 Zamarra Weights. The most
you can carry is 60, If you wish to take a block, mark
the weight on the Adventure Sheet. Do not exceed
your maximum capability

There are six exits from the cave. Do you choose:

Exit 1? Turn to 395
Exit 2? Turn to 366
Exit 3? Turn to 342
Exit 4? Turn to 40

Exit 5? Turn to 233

Exit 6? Turn to 187

136

136
You run alongside the cart as it heads away from the
Citadel. You suspect that the rider was the traitor
and you want to see what information has changed
hands. You leap on to the back of the cart. The
driver feels the jolt as you land, turns round, drops
the reins and pulls out a sword.

CART DRIVER SKILL 6

If you win, you stop the horses and search around
for the parchment. You find two sheets, one has a
likeness of King Elidor’s new Knight Gathonian of
Korr. The second has a hastily written message:
‘J. Beware: the Torchbearer has departed for the
North. A drawing and more details will follow. S.’
You roll up the parchment and are about to destroy
the paper when a Grypvulture suddenly sweeps
down, seizes them out of your hands and flies off.
You run away. Turn to 12.

ae
Sx

STAMINA Q

137-138

137

You trudge along the reedy plain. You walk for
many hours ona rough northerly heading with only
the rather vicious marsh-flies to relieve the boredom
(deduct 1 point from your STAMINA) and the glow
of the Bracelet stressing the urgency of your mission
(mark a captured Citadel Wall on the Adventure
Sheet). Turn to 356.

138
You go out of the other room, open the door, and
see four Orcs standing there. One of them screams,
‘I told you someone was in there!’ They attack. Fight
each in turn.

SKILL STAMINA
FirstORC 6 6
Second ORC a 7
Third ORC 6 6
Fourth ORC yi 6

If you survive, you re-enter the secret room, seal the
door and rush down through the trapdoor. Turn to
281.

139-140

139
You pull out your sword and strike at the Goblin.
The blow glances off his thick skin. He draws his
sword. ‘Scum, you are never to be trusted. You will
now die.’ He spits and charges at you.

GOBLIN GUARD SKILL5 STAMINA §

If you survive, turn to 283.

The tunnel is empty but for 5 Star Crystals. You pick
them up and put them into your pack (mark them
on your Adventure Sheet). As you are picking up the
last one, a small, hairy creature pokes its head out of
the ground and bites your hand (deduct 2 points
from your STAMINA), You feel giddy but carry on
along the tunnel, You come to another fork: Do you
go left (turn to 157) or right (turn to 248)?

141-142

141

‘Advice, eh?’ You ask him the safest and quickest
way to get to the Fangs of Fury. He scratches his
head, ‘Never heard of it. But I’ll give you some
really good advice: get out of here fast. The Rogue
Catchers have got your face on a “wanted” parch-
ment and there’s a price on your head.’ The boy
disappears around a corner. The villagers are now
taking an interest in you. You decide to leave the
village quickly. Turn to 398.

142

You follow a trail of bones and the smell of putrid
flesh. The torchlight fades as you get further into
the cave. You trip over several bodies and then,
suddenly, something large and hairy grabs your
arms and legs and tries to separate them from your
body. Once more you thank the Captain for his
rigorous training. “Collapse in on yourself,’ he used
to advise. ‘Ni! resistance will lead to a lessening of
an enemy’s grip.’ You try it and it works. You break
free, somersault away and pull out your sword.

BEAST OF FURY SKILL 8

If you win, another Beast appears but you manage
to run through a small hole and drop down into
another tunnel. Turn to 274.

STAMINA 10
143-144

143

You are correct! You have spoken the number of the
name-that-cannot-be-uttered. A door opens in the
wall. You walk into a room and see three monks
sitting in front of you. Above them is a swirling
Dragon that seems to move towards you. Your eyes
meet those of the monk in the middle and he
speaks. ‘Torchbearer, apologies for the deceptions.
We are the last of our Age. He, curse him, has killed
all save us because we guard the Flame, the Flame
that will be his undoing when the Sentinels re-
awaken and wreak the havoc that is his due. Now
choose your Fate. Do you wish one of three bottles
(turn to 374) or the Black Cubes (turn to 209)?’

14
The woman !eaps up the cliff-track. She says

nothing but when she reaches a certain point, she
stops, sits cross-legged and shuts her eyes. You
stand next to her, not knowing what to do. Eventu-
ally she opens her eyes, points to you and indicates
a path that goes back up and along the clifftop. She
then smoothes out a patch in the dusty ground and
draws a tent with an insignia of Vulture’s Wings.
You try to talk to her but she goes back into a trance.
You leave her there and take the route she advised,
trudging along the cliff.

The track leads you back into the siege lines but
down below, amid the mess of a campaign army,
you see a series of tents like the one drawn by the
woman. Do you go down at once (turn to 338) or
stay where you are to observe {turn to 175)?

145-146

145

You succeed, Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, your
team has also won. The Elves cheer you and some
collect on bets made with each other. You are pre-
sented with a set of six Blue Gems, Elf-Flver wings
and an Elf-guide out of the land known. as the
Battleground of the Giants. If you are Unlu cky, your
team has lost but you get 2 Blue Gems, a set of Elf-
wings and a guide.

Make the appropriate adjustments on the Adventure
Sheet. Turn to 294.

You make your way along the steps when sud-
denly, a Marsh Fiend, a creature covered in thick
mud with a row of curved horns down its back and
sharp thin claws on its fingers, leaps straight out of
the swamp and stands in front of you, reaching out
for your throat.

MARSH FIEND SKILL 7

If you survive, you suspect that other similar crea-
tures are waiting on this path, so you decide to
retrace your steps and take the other path. Turn to
178.

STAMINA 10

147-148

147
You attack but he spins round with amazing speed
and throws some dust into the air. Your blows do
not touch him. Deduct 1 LUCK point. ‘You under-
estimate me, my friend,’ he says, ‘When young, I
was apprenticed to Mandrekk the Wizard. Any-
way, | donot have the object on my person.’ Turn to

370.

148
You stand there not saying anything. The Captain
sits down onan upturned stump and tries to put his
boot back on. ’All right, you two. A third share
each.’ The two soldiers draw swords and attack.
Fight each in turn.

SKILL STAMINA
First KNUCLER 5 8
Second KNUCLER 6 7

{f you win, the Captain finally gets his boot on and
looks up. ‘Good,’ he pronounces. ‘You're in. Do
something about these bodies.’ Turn to 218.

149-150

149
You run into a troop of Goblins camped in the

bushes. In the distance, you can hear other horns
sounding accompanied by screams and shouts
Three Goblins in front of you pull out their swords
and attack. Fight each in turn.

SKILL STAMINA
First GOBLIN 5 5
Second GOBLIN 6 6
Third GOBLIN 6 6

If you survive, you see no way out so you are forced
to mun back towards the Dwarf. You find that he too
has dispatched three soldiers. He smiles at you and
leads you into the middle of the camp. Turn to 26.

150
You move from cover to cover, hoping to meet no
one. Just then, you see a troop of mounted Orcs
charging across your path. The next moment, a

151

phalanx of Zamarran Knights charges in the same
direction. Everything seems to be confusion. And
then you notice a monk, right in front of you. He is
sitting on top of a large rock with an enigmatic smile
on his face. His hands are frozen in the sign of the
Cube and balanced on his knee is a black box. You
walk around the rock and see four arrows sticking
out of his back. Do you open the box (turn to 249) or
continue on your way (turn to 12)?

151

You want to make your story sound plausible.
‘From the Citadel, eh? And you're deserting . . .
you'd better come with me.’ He keeps his sword
against your back and marches you through an
intricate series of trenches some of which are s&ll
being completed. You are taken to a great wooden
wagon that has metal bars at one end. The Goblin
places your sword in a barrel and you are thrust into
the wagon. The door is locked behind you, ‘Wait
there,’ shouts the Goblin. “You will see the Inquisi-
tor. She never fails to unearth the truth.’

As he marches off, you notice the Bracelet glowing
(mark a captured Citadel Wall on the Adventure
Sheet). You look at your fellow prisoners. There are
two other soldiers, a woman in rags and a bald-
headed man in monk’s garb. He is sitting cross-
legged, staring at you with a smile on his face. He is
apart from the others and proceeds to call you over
with a beckoning hand. Do you go to him (turn to
308) or keep to yourself (turn to 5)?
152-153

152
You stretch your hand out to open the door but it
swings open before you touch it. In front of you
stands a tail, black-cloaked woman holding o fiery
Wand. She scowls at you, ‘Is it the One? Perhaps my
time has not been wasted, if he is the One.’ She
swings the Wand in the air and it turns into a long
ftery sword which she then turns on you.

If you possess a Wand or 1 Black Cube, fight as
normal. If you have neither, you have no chance:
she kilis you in one fell blow. Your quest ends here.

JINXANA SKILLB STAMINA 19

If you win, you watch the now-transparent body
waft away on the breeze accompanied by a hideous
scream. You enter the room. Turn to 330.

153
You pull out your sword and strike at the axe. The
Goblin turns around and attacks.

GOBLIN IRREGULAR  skILL6 STAMINA6

lf you survive, Peric thinks that you were fighting
over who was going to kill him, ‘You'll never have
the honour of besting a Zamarran Knight,’ he
shouts. He then proceeds to swallow something,
collapses and dies. You try to get away but strong
fat arms grab you. You are hauled up in front of the
Captain. He tells you that you now have an appoint.
ment with the executioner. They begin to search
you, then one of them hits you and you black out.
Deduct 2 points from your STAMINA. Turn to 286,

154-155

154

You get outside with your helmet on, visor firmly
down. You clank off towards a waiting horse that
has the same insignia as your armour. Two Dwarfs
rush up to help you get on to the horse. They makea
mounting block out of their bodies; they are chained
up and seem to be around solely for that purpose.
You canter off but you are suddenly joined by six
other riders.

You ride in silence, far out beyond the siege lines to
the north. You know that you must get rid of the
patrol so you send five of them on a sortie east. The
one remaining rider will not leave you when asked
to. She, it appears, is your bodyguard. Do you try to
out-ride her (turn to 85) or just turn round and
attack (turn to 255)?

LS.

You hand over the money. (Deduct the amount
from your Adventure Sheet.) You pick up the device.
Looking at it end-on, it resembles the number 18.
This strikes you as odd and you make a mental note
of it. The Tinker is very pleased with his sale; he
calls out as you leave him that you won’t regret it.
Turn to 257.
156-157

156
The black-cloaked figure takes you to a tall stone
tower. You are dragged along to a metal gate. It
opens and then shuts behind you. You are left
entirely on your own. Then, you are propelled
forwards into the presence of the Wizard Jaxartes.
He sits on a large throne between two wolves. At his
feet lie two prostrate Dwarfs. ‘So you are the
Torchbearer. The drawing is accurate.’ He looks ata
parchment and then at you. ‘Now, hand me the
Torch. That is all I need.’ His hands stir the two
wolves that sit on either side of his throne. They
begin to snarl at you. You step back and look
around. Apart from the two Dwarfs there is no one
else in the room. Jaxartes seems to know what you
are thinking. “You feeble scum, you cannot escape
my Power. I can . . . what?’ Just then he grips his
temple, ‘An attack ... but I must, no... I will
come.’ He stands up and addresses the wolves.
‘Torture our guest, my sweets. My Power must
be directed towards battle.‘ He disappears and the
wolves attack. Behind you is a spiral staircase. Do
you run up it (turn to 351) or down it (turn to 380)?

157
The tunnel continues across a deep chasm. There is

no other way over but to leap. If you do not wish to
jump, then you must take another tunnel on the left
(turn to 268).

If you wish to leap, throw three dice to indicate the
distance, then throw one die and add it to your

158

STAMINA to indicate the jump. If the jump is equal
to or greater than the distance, then you succeed. If
not, then you fall and die at the bottom of the deep
chasm. Your quest ends here.

If you make it across, you stumble upon 5 Triangu-
lar Crystals and 5 Star Crystals. If you have enough
for the ransom, you may return to the entrance (you
will encounter no difficulties), turn to 32. IE you still
need to find the ransom, you continue walking and
come to another fork in the tunnel. Do you go to the
left (turn to 114) or do you go right (turn to 362)?

158

You get to the grain and rice store in the central
square of the village. Two drunken Orcs have
smashed down the main door and are helping
themselves, loading sacks into a cart, They keep
shouting that the goods have been requisitioned
and that compensation will be paid. They laugh
among themselves that there are no fighting men
left in the village to stop them. One of the locals, an
elderly man sees you and pleads for your help, He
offers 20 Gold Coins, Do you listen to the plea (turn
to 82) or do you stay away from trouble and leave
the village (turn to 316)?

ye
yet ‘gi
id 4g

159-160

159
You run, but your feet stick in the marsh. The
Goblins catch you when you have sunk in up to
your knees. You cannot manoeuvre to fight prop-
erly. Reduce your SKILL by 2 for this combat only.
Fight each in turn.

SKILL STAMINA
First MARSH GOBLIN 6 6
Second MARSH GOBLIN 6 6

If you survive, you extricate yourself from the
muddy mess. Do you go back for the chest (turn to
33) or do you quickly try to find a way out of the
marshes (turn to 292)?

160

You get into the boat and the Goblin begins to
whip the prisoners, getting them to row faster.
Half-way across to Karakum Island, the waves get
very big and begin to wash over the boat. You look
across at the other boat and see that it is sinking
The chained-up prisoners are all screaming. The
Goblins and the other guards abandon the boat
and swim over to your vessel. Your boat makes it
safely across and you land in a small harbour. The
prisoners are marched off and you are told to join
one of two lines of soldiers. Which line do you join:
the left (turn to 227) or the right (turn to 394)?

161-162

161
She points at the three figures then points to herself
You memorize the figures: they are all alike except
that dagger hands and shield hands are in different
compass positions.

FIRST SECOND THIRD
Dagger
Hand: North-West South South-West
Shield
Hand: South-West North-West West

She then makes the sign of the Cube with her open
palms, Turn to 277.

162
You are in a cave with a key hanging on the wall by a
thin cord. Beside it hangs an inscription:

€ ~~ © *  t> de -h
BE LRA TART
Do you decide to cut the key down (turn to 183) or

pull at it (turn to 94)? There are three exits if you do
not want a key or already have one. Do you choose:

Exit 1? Turn to 201
Exit 2? Turn to 107
Exit 3? Turn to 342

163-164

163

You rush down to help the girl. You pluck her up
and cary her into a clump of bushes. The Ores
return to the scene of the attack and begin ranting
and screaming at each other (add 2 points to your
LUCK score). When they eventually go, you sit the
girl down. She sounds remarkably calm now. ‘You
are the Torchbearer, the One sent to rekindle the
Flame that will destroy our oppressors. ! am Kim-
Ona, a Seer and Wazarri-to-be. You must accom-
pany me to the Bastion. There you will receive
important knowledge. We are the Hope of the
Future, of the Religion-whose-name-cannot-be-
uttered.’ You are amazed by her knowledge and
promptly agree to go with her. Turn to 64.

@
164

You do as you are directed and dropintoa field. You
look back at the road leading to the main village
gate. Six black-cloaked riders are patrolling up and
down. You keep in low profile, cross streams back
and forth, double-double-back, jump a few trees: in
fact you do all the things that Captain Laski taught
you in ‘losing, the scent’ exercises. When you are
sufficiently clear of the environs of the village, you
climb a tree and look around. Ahead you see a great
forest (turn to 367) and to the right is a road that may
or may not be Salik’s Way (turn to 172). Which route
do you take?
165-166

165

You have entered on Level 4. You are in an intri-
cately carved corridor. A voice booms out from a
distance, “Yours is the Way of Balance. Look for-
ward. Fear not and cross the chasm.’ A narrow rope
appears in front of you across a chasm. Throw two
dice until you throw a double. Count the number of
times it takes you to do so. Deduct the number from
your STAMINA. Turn to 231,

166

You leap through the white-hot flames and coals. If
you have a Black Cube in your possession the
flames feel strangely cool. You get outside the cave
unharmed (deduct 1 Black Cube from your Adven-
fure Sheet). If you have no Black Cube, then throw a
die and deduct the result fom your sTAMINA, then
reduce your SKILL by 1 point. You have been badly
injured but have escaped the Giant, who does not
follow you.

You look around at the countryside. You see a wood
to your left and a flat plain in front of you. Both lead
north. Which way do you choose: towards the
woods (turn to 210) or the plain (turn to 282)?

167-168

167
You walk out of the inn as though unconcemed.
The man following you eventually puts his hand on
your shoulder and steps you. He turns you around,
peers carefully at your face and then pulls out his
sword, saying, ‘You're mine! Prepare to die’

ROGUE CATCHER SKILL 6 STAMINAS8

If you win, you run off and leave the village quickly.
Turn to 398.

168
The tunnel heads ever downwards. Suddenly, four
sheets of fire appear at various distances in front of
you. You must cross them. If you have 4 Black
Cubes (deduct them from your Adventure Sheet),
you cross safely. If you lack any cubes, you must
brave the inferno. Deduct 3 from your sTA MINA for
any fire wall you must pass without a Black Cube.

If you survive, the tunnel divides left (turn to 229)
and righl (turn to 393). Which turning do you take?

169-171
169

You enter a bustling inn, full of men, women,
Dwarfs, Elves and Goblins. There is so much noise
you have to shout your order to the man at the bar
and you pay with a few iron coins. You relax in a
friendly atmosphere for several hours (add 4 points
to your STAMINA). You are reawakened to the
urgency of your quest by the glow of your Bracelet
(mark another breached Citadel Wall on the Adven-
ture Sheet).

You get up to leave when, suddenly, the door
bursts open. There stands a blazing Fire Demon
holding a burning scimitar and wearing strange
fiery armour around its large wings. The inn is in
turmoil, chairs are upset in the rush to get away
from the creature. Do you stand and fight (turn to
110) or run behind the bar, like most of the others
(turn to 242)?

170

You walk along a row of giant eggs and take 1 Multi-
Coloured Gem from the top of each one. The eggs
crack and spew forth a foul-smelling liquid as the
Gem is taken. You get more than enough for the
ransom but, suddenly, a giant claw grabs you by
the chest and lifts you up. You see a huge King-
Dragonman. The creature closes its grip on you and
your body is crushed. Your quest ends here.

171
Out in the street, the boy sits on a fence. At his side
is a vast, horrible creature. It is covered in hair and

172

towers over you, grunting and clutching an axe.
The boy is obviously excited. ‘I will bet you can’t
beat the Thing here. Come on, I want to see a fight.’
You feel yourself being pushed towards the crea-
ture. You have no choice but to pull out your sword
and attack.

THE THING SKILL5 STAMINA Q

If you survive, the boy seems a little disappointed.
He begins to amble away but you remind him of the
bet. He remembers, ‘Oh, yes. A Sorcerer must keep
his word. What's it to be: money, food, or advice?
That’s what you people are always asking for.’
What is it to be:

Money? Turn to 237
Food? Turn to 95
Advice? Turn to 141

172
The well-made road enables you to travel at a good
pace. You can also get warning of riders approach-
ing from a great distance by listening carefully. You
feel safer now, away from the siege lines. Suddenly,
one of the cobbles in the road flips over and a
metal trap springs out, catching your ankle. You are
trapped! Then you see two rogues coming out of the
bushes. They are dirty and ragged but have a wild
look in their eyes. You pull out your sword as they
approach. ‘Peace, traveller. We do not want to fight

173-174

. . if you give us all your valuables. Now what say
you?’ Do you agree to let them have all your Gold,
Gems and Crystals (turn to 253) or do you sternly
refuse (if you have no valuables, you must refuse;
turn to 78)?

173

The man stands by a tree-trunk with his axe over his
shoulder. He speaks to you in gentle, harmonious
tones. “You are the Torchbearer. The quest has been
prophesied, To begin .. . we must have complete
Trust. Shut your eyes.’ You do so and feel the swish
of the axe-blade over your head. Do you move to
parry the blow (turn to 369) or stand stock-still (turn
to 28)?

174

The Wazarri Knight looks to the squire who speaks.
‘You have fulfilled the Prophecy of Kei-Okano. You
must go to the Homrath Caves and find the Key.’
He pulls out a bag. “These wil! help you pass walls
of fire.” He hands you 6 Black Cubes (add them to
your Adventure Sheet). You are then fed and rested
(add 1 point to your SKILL and 6 points to your
STAMINA).

The squire takes you to the gate and points out a
flat-topped mountain. “There lie the Homrath
Caves that lead to the Fangs of Fury. They hold the
Key.’ Nothing else is said. You pass through an-
other opening in the wall of fire, but this ime you
see no sign of the besiegers.

175-176

You find the path very easy to follow and continue
along it for several hours. Eventually, you come toa
very strange spectacle: on top of a tall pillar is
chained a young boy. He is being attacked by two
Dragonmen. The boy screams for help. Do you help
(turn to §2) or carry on towards the mountain (turn

to 194}?

175

You observe the activity below you in the camp.
Suddenly, you hear a twig break behind you (add 1
point to your LUCK score). You turn round to see
two rogues creeping up on you. They carry bundles
of swag, swords and pieces of armour. You guess
that they are making a living by waylaying solitary
soldiers. They attack. Fight each in tum.

SKILL STAMINA
FirstROGUE 4 6
Second ROGUE 5 7

If you win, you make your way down to the tents.
Turn to 338.

176

The forest path becomes quite dark. The tall trees
tower over you, large dark birds flap overhead and
small furry creatures scuttle about the lower
branches. Occasionally, you see twin shafts of flame
that burn for a moment then go out. Just then, the
path skirts around a smooth mound. Do you climb
up the mound (turn to 232) or carry on along the
path (turn to 317)?

177-178

177

You can hear vague sounds of pursuit but you are
grateful for the forest that keeps you hidden. Sud-
denly, an arrow crashes through the leaves and
implants itself in a tree-trunk. You look at it as a
smoky mist is released and then hear a scream, ‘1
have detected the One you seek. Fire in that direc-
tion!’ You are immediately showered by a mass of
alTows.

Test your Luck. If you are Unlucky, one of them hits
you in the arm, Throw a die for the amount of
STAMINA you lose.

You weave in and out of the bushes, making your-
self a more difficult target. Do you decide to climba
tree (turn to 358) or head for an outcrop of rocks just
ahead (turn to 56)?

178
The stepping-stones get bigger, the nearer you get
to the fortress. From a soldier’s point of view the
building does not look very easy to defend: too
many windows, not enough firing angles and

179

vulnerable to catapult attack. You find a set of stone
steps that lead to an open gateway. There is nobody
about. Once inside, you realize that you are im a
monastery; religious symbols, bells, prayer cubes
abound but there are no people to be seen. In the
middle of the central courtyard stands a giant
cauldron that is belching out a heavy black smoke.
You decide to look around. Which way do you
choose: left to some doors leading off the courtyard
(turn to 300) or up the stairs on the right (turn to

193)?

179

You mun into the doorway. The handle turns and the
door opens easily. It is dark and you stumble
around until you fall over a large box. Someone calls
out to you to be quiet; you do not move. Eventually,
a Dwarf comes in, ‘It’s all right, they’ve gone.’ The
shutters are opened and you find yourself among a
group of a dozen men and women. One man, who
smells of tar, asks you what you want. You reply in
all honesty, ‘To leave the island and get away from
the siege.’ Another old salt with tarred pig-tails
stumbles up. ‘Aye, they all want that,’ he points to
the rest of the group. ‘It'll cost yer 5 Gold Coins.’ Do
you accept the offer (turn to 45) or, if you cannot or
do not want to pay, refuse and leave the room (turn
to 108)?

180-181

180

Turning round quickly, you feel a sword stab you in
the side (deduct 1 point from your sk1LL and 4
points from your sTAMINA). You face a terrified
Goblin who is holding three bottles in one hand,
You reach for your sword as he calls out to the
others, ‘It’s the one Jax wants. Come on, you two.’
They both turn round. One of them is incapable
and collapses on the stone floor. The other Orc is
fiercer under the influence of the drink. Fight each
In turn.

SKILL STAMINA
GOBLIN 6 6
ORC 7 7

If you survive, you know that you'll have to be very
careful. You suspect that all this devastation is
connected with your mission. You decide to investt-
gate upstairs. Turn to 193.

181

You mount the horse, grab the reins and slip your
feet into the stirrups. The horse begins to walk back
in the direction it had come from. Suddenly, the
reins ensnare your hands and your feet stick in the
stirrups. You are powerless to do anything as
the horse gallops off and eventually stops in
the middle of a group of black-cloaked mounted
figures who then begin to squawk with delight.
Your quest is over. You have been caught by
Jaxartes’ own Mage Warriors. You are powerless
to escape.
hi
|

Th

iu it HN RG Lau HI NON gat MM sun

182-183

182

The girl is in tears. She thanks you, hands the sack
to a waiting cart-driver and then runs off to the door
of a building on the left. You guess that it is the
village school. A minute or two later you hear
screaming and a coarse, threatening voice, ‘I'll teach
you to get here on time.’ You hear the sound of a
cane swishing through the air and then a tearful
scream. You go to the window and look in. The
teacher is hitting the little girl, You cannot hold
back, so you enter the classroom to explain but the
teacher does not listen. He attacks you with the cane
and hits you over the shoulder. You get angry, pull
out your sword, and slice the cane in two. You grab
him by the shirt front and lift him off the ground
until he has understood the reason for the girl’s
lateness. Reluctantly, he accepts the story and you
leave the classroom. Just then, a trumpet sounds
and all the people in the road run towards the west
side of the village. Do you follow them (turn to 158)
or do you stay to see that the girl is all right (turn to
287)?

183
You cut the co.d and take the key. Another key
magically appears in its place (mark the key on the
Adventure Sheet).

There are three exits. Do you choose:

Exit 1? Turn to 201
Exit 2? Turn to 107
Exit 3? Turn to 342

184-186

184

They stop when they realize that they’ve gota fight
on their hands. One of them places something in his
mouth and you hear a high-pitched whistle. Your
horse begins to rear violently and throws you to the
ground. Test your Luck. If you are Unlucky, one of
the hoofs hits your head (deduct 1 point from your
SKILL).

The Orcs laugh, take the horse and ride off. You get
up and dust yourself down. Then you stand ona tall
rock and look over the smoky battlefield. Turn to

243.

185
You get to the clearing. It opens out into a reedy
plain, featureless but for the spiky reeds. You are
bitten mercilessly by particularly nasty marsh-flies
(deduct 1 point from your STAMINA). Turn to 356.

186
He looks at you expectantly, as though he knows
the answer he wants. You look around the cave and
point to the dark end of the cave. He grabs you in
one hand and a burning log in the other and takes
you deep into the cave. It is littered with skeletons.
‘Yes, here is Djakk!’ he screams, pointing to one of
the skeletons laid out on a pedestal. He begins to
laugh and thinks this a great joke. He drops you and
you land on a vast hoard of Gold Coins. ‘Take gold
and run!’ he shouts at you. You grab a handful
(throw four dice for the number you take and mark

187-188

them on the Adventure Sheet). You realize that he is
re-enacting some kind of ritual. Do you run towards
the dark end of the cave (turn to 31) or do you race
towards the front (turn to 272)?

187
You are in an empty cave. There are some chalk
marks on the wall:

eee te Wa

There are three exits. Do you take:

Exit 1? Turn to 245

Exit 2? Turn to 135

Exit 3? Turn to 233
188

The small craft is difficult to control in the strong
surf but you persevere (deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA). Eventually, you land safely on the
north-west side of the island. The coast is deserted.
You leave the sandy bay and follow a goat-track up
to a rise where you catch sight of the little, smoky
harbour. The track leads you into the back alleys of
the port. Sloping cobbled stone alleyways lead
down towards the quayside. Suddenly, you hear
screams and several people run past you into door-
ways. Someone shouts, ‘Run! It’s Ostragoth’s
Press-Gang"’ Do you run into a door to the left (turn
to 179), one on the right (turn to 10) or do you
choose to run back the way you came (turn to 236)?
189-191

189
You know that you must try to stay with a crowd.
You look purposeful and head towards the group
when, suddenly, a Goblin sergeant grabs you by the
shoulder.

‘Where do you think you’re going, scum!’ You point
to the field of soldiers. ‘Those are ELITE troops,
while you are scuM and obviously NEw to this
army. (Curse these conscripts.) you will come with
ME. It’s the Irregulars for you. Left. . . Left.“ Turn
to 1014.

190

You cannot doit. The war-chariot thunders down at
you. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, the chariot
wheels break the chains but you are hit by one of the
horse’s hoofs and knocked out. Turn to 303. If you
are Unlucky, you stare in horror as the chariot heads
straight for you. The driver does not bother to stop.
Your quest is over.

191
You enter on Level 5. You are in an intricately
carved corridor. A voice booms out. ‘You have
found Elements of the True Way. Proceed.’ A red
light floods the corridor and you feel strong and
confident. Restore either SKILL or LUCK to your
original score. Turn to 231.

192-194

192

Crawling through the traps, you are amazed at the
work involved in building them in just a few weeks.
You stop at a pile of rubble, look up and then you
see a glimmer of light. Turn to 118.

193

You walk upstairs. There are cubes of various sizes
all over the place, some are hanging like bells from
the ceiling and ring gently in the light breeze. Just
then, the Bracelet glows (mark a captured Citadel
Wail on the Adventure Sheet}. At the top of the stairs,
you find a long gallery with a number of doors
leading off it. Scattered and burnt parchments
flutter about in the dense black smoke that rises
from the cauldron. Which side of the gallery do you
walk along first: the left {turn to 319) or the right
(turn to 87)?

194,

You begin to climb towards the flat-topped moun-
tain. It is a long and arduous climb that involves
dropping down into canyons and then climbing up
out again. (If you possess no Elf-Flyer wings, de-
duct 4 points from your STAMINA.) Eventually you
get to the top of the mountain. It is strangely flat and
smooth with three holes, each 100 paces from each
other, forming the points of a triangle. If you wish to
jump down into one of these holes, turn to 339. If
you want to carry on over the mountain and pick up
a track on the other side, turn to g9.

195-196

195
You continue to climb until you reach the top of a
rocky crag. You see some high chalk cliffs ahead
that are far too steep to climb when, suddenly,
something leaps over the top and swoops down at
you. A metal claw gleams in the sunlight. You pull
out your sword but recognize an Elf. He sees the
sword and veers to one side. He has a wing-like
structure attached and stretched between his hands
and feet that gives him great aerial prowess. You
attack but miss just as others appear over the top of
the cliff. You begin to run.

Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, you drop into a
smoky valley that shields you from the eyes of the
Flyers. Turn to 212. If you are Unlucky, a heavy
object hits you on the head and you lose conscious-
ness. Deduct 2 points from your STAMINA. Turn to
244.

196

You begin to look for footholds on the sheer cliff.
Throw a die six times and mark the series of num-
bers on the Adventure Sheet. This is the random
position of usable holds. Throw a die six times
again, this is the line of descent. If any numbers
match in the series, you find good footholds, other-
wise you will have to spend time and energy hack-
ing out new ones. Deduct 1 sTAMINA point for
each of the six footholds you have to chisel out with
your sword. Eventually, you reach the bottom.
Turn to 219.

397-199

197

You walk along the sand for several hundred paces
until you come across a skeleton. It doesn’t look all
that old and has traces of blood still on it. You
continue and are yet again puzzled when you reach
another stripped skeleton. You draw out your
sword and carry on. This time you come to an old
sea-chest, half-buried in the sand. Through a small
gap you can see many Gems inside. Do you open
the chest and prab a handful of Gems (turn to 397) or
do you leave it alone (turn to 97)?

198
You pull out the cork. There is a foul smell and a
slight hissing noise. You peer into the bottle and
then drop it. You turn around to see a fat man
dressed in golden bangles and exotic robes. He
breathes in the air. ‘Aah, free at last! Thank you,
kind traveller. It has been an Age since [ last
breathed the air.’ He draws out a Star Crystal from
his pocket and hands it to you. You take it (add the
Crystal to the Gem box of your Adventure Sheet}. He
walks away, then after a few paces stops and turns
around with a very ugly look on his face. He picks
up a piece of driftwood and slams it against a rock.
The rock explodes. ‘Kill, kill, kill,’ he screams at
you. Do you run (turn to 30) or choose to fight (turn

to 329}?

199
You begin to dig. Although at first easy, you soon
realize that the more you dig along the wall, the

200

more the sand falls in from above. (Deduct 2 points
from your STAMINA.) Eventually, with a great
heave you push the last of the sand away and you
are blinded by the sunlight. You ease your way out
of the sandy hole. You find yourself close to the sea,
by a sand dune to the east of the Citadel. Ahead of
you, in the Bay of Sharks, Ostragoth’s War Fleet lies
at anchor. Just then, a gruff voice shouts at you,
‘That scum, come here!’ You turn round to see a
man in a sergeant’s uniform and a group of soldiers
straining against a siege catapult that has got stuck
in the sand. Do you run over to help (turn to 70) or
rush off in the opposite direction and hide in the
sand dunes (turn to 278)?

200

The shallow river-path seems endless but eventu-
ally the trees are not so tall and begin to be more
spaced out, and the sunlight begins to filter through
to the ground. You hear the sound of rushing water
and stop at a deeper river that meets your tributary.
Across the river is a sturdy wooden bridge and just

201~—202

discernible on the other side is a camp-fire with
three figures sitting around it cooking something
that smells very good. Do you cross the bridge (turn
to 309) or cautiously avoid it and cross the rushing
stream (turn to 8)?

201
You are in a cave full of blocks of stone marked with
the symbol of a mushroom. Each block has the
number 50 engraved on the reverse.

Each block weighs 10 Zamarra Weights. The max-
imum you can carry is 60 Zamarra Weights. If you
wish to take one of the blocks, mark the weight on
the Adventure Shect. Do not exceed the maximum.

There are four exits. Do you choose:

Exit 1? Turn to 241

Exit 2? Turn to 162

Exit 3? Turn to 342

Exit 4? Turn to 366
202

The door opens easily. You are in a library, full of
old books, half-open, piled up on top of each other.
You flick through the papers and find a stack of
parchments with drawings of all the Zamarran
Knights. Each has a scrawled description and is
signed ‘S’. You realize that these must have been
supplied by the traitor. Just then, you come across
your own likeness in the pile, with the legend
‘Torchbearer’ inscribed underneath. Suddenly, you

203-204

hear a yowling sound and decide to leave but you
knock over a ledger that appears to account for Spy
Expenses. Do you take time to flick through it (turn
to 254) or rush out and up the stairs (turn to 351)?

203

You follow the woman out of the tent. She moves
quickly and stealthily from cover to cover, then
drops down into a trench. You try to keep up with
her as she takes you through a repair yard, past
some chained-up Elves and into a clump of woods.
Here, she sits down and you rest (add 6 STAMINA
points). She does not say a word. You ask her who
she is and why she helped you, but all she does is
draw something in the dirt. All of a sudden you hear
something crashing through the undergrowth. Do
you wish to look at the drawing more closely (turn
to 161) or not (turn to 277)?

204

Satisfied that you are not whoever they are looking
for, the riders set off. You stare at Peg-Leg and then
remember the 500 Gold Coins. ‘But I don’t have it,’
you tell him. ‘I know you don’t, but I also know
where you can get it. Out there in the Dragonlands!
Dragonmen love hoarding jewels, Gems and the
like. Take this path out to the Caves. Return with
enough Gems to trade for 500 Gold Coins over
there.’ He points to a trading-post. ‘I’ll be waiting
here.’ You get up and walk into the trading-post to
check the market value of various Gems. Turn to

399.

205
nl x -
“wtert 7
ath ag
—_ * oo ” a
\ 3) i = P
205

The Orcs lead you towards the west. One of them
holds a small open chest and is in the process of
dividing up what you guess to be the old man’s
Gems. The Orc hands his companion one Gem.
‘One for you. . . one for me.’ He gives him another
Gem, ‘Two for you. . .’ and takes two for himself,
‘two for me.’ The second Orc cannot work out
what's wrong but is getting suspicious. The smart
Orc hands him another Gem, ‘That makes three for
you,’ and then takes three for himself, ‘and three for
me!’ The gullible Orc eventually stops him. ‘Hang
on a minute!’ he shouts. They stop to argue. You
stand there by a small pool of water, remembering
the old man’s last words. Do you leap in the pool
(turn to 293) or do you try to get the Orcs to fight
between themselves (turn to 224)?

206-207

206

You get off the horse when all is clear and take off
the hot heavy armour. When the armour crashes to
the ground, the horse breaks away from the branch
you tied it to and gallops off. Inside the armour you
find a smail purse containing 5 Gold Coins (add
these to your Adventure Sheet). You rest and look
around (add 2 points to your STAMINA). Then you
notice the Bracelet on your wrist glowing (mark a
captured Citadel Wall on the Adventure Sheet) and,
recalling the urgency of your mission, you get mov-
ing again. You find a track leading to what looks like
the river (turn to 20) and another leading to a wider
road (turn to 365). Which way do you go?

207

You walk along the clifftop until you find yourself at
the main siege camp. You are amazed at the dif-
ficulty you are having getting away from the siege
lines. Below, you notice rows of tents each with
commanders’ ornamental armour standing outside.
The path heads down. Do you go down the path at
once (turn to 338) or do you stay to observe for a
while (turn to 175)?

208—210

208

You get into a brightly coloured rowboat and the
Dwarfs begin to pull at the oars, They are very
pleased at getting a customer. The boat is old and
leaks. Now and then, one cf the Dwarfs bails out the
water witha green cup. You are grateful for the rest.
You ask them of any dangers ahead to the north.
Skiff tells you of troops of Orcs, soldiers and
Goblins on raids of plunder but nothing else. Sud-
denty, Sprig shouts ’Giant’ and both of them disap-
pear over the side of the boat. You turn around just
as a giant hammer crashes into the boat. Test your
Luck. If you are Unlucky, you are showered with
wooden splinters (throw a die and deduct the result
from your STAMINA points).

The boat sinks with you in it. Then a large arm
reaches into the water and plucks you out. Do you
draw your sword and stab at the Giant (turn to 388)
or go quietly without a struggle (turn to 50)?

209
You stretch out a hand and grab at the pile of Black
Cubes (throw two dice for the amount you seize). If
any remain, they disappear. Turn to 9.

210

As soon as you enter the woods you feel an eerie
foreboding. The trees are twisted and gnarled,
warped and hideous. You feel that someone is
watching you and glimpse furtive movements out
of the corner of your eye. What strikes you as odd is

211-212

the lack of any bird life or noise of any kind. What
strikes you as even stranger is the way the path you
were following is now completely blocked both in
front and behind. Everything gets darker and the
trees appear to grow visibly in front of you. You
decide to get out, so you strike at the branches with
your sword but to no effect. If you have a Wand,
turn to 48. If not, then turn to 295.

211

You reach for the key and remove it slowly from the
hook. Suddenly a sheet of flame envelops you. If
you do not have 1 Black Cube, deduct 1 point from
your SKILL and 4 points from your STAMINA: you
are badly hurt. If you do, just deduct 1 Black Cube.
You put the key in the lock and open the heavy
door. You enter and lock it behind you. Turn to 259.

242

When you get to the bottom, you can see nothing.
Suddenly, you see the source of the smoke and hear
the playful squeal of two very young Dragonmen.
They scurry around, flapping their wings and
breathing fire at each other. You see broken egg-
shells nearby and guess that they are only recently
hatched. Seeing you, they scuttle to you and mn in
circles around your feet. You realize that where
there are young there will be adult creatures not
very far away and sure enough you hear the flap-
ping of very large wings. You try to get to cover. Do
you run into a nearby cave (turn to 115) or stay
outside behind a rock (turn to 29)?

213-214

23

The old man stands near you, still insistent, but is
pushed out of the way by one of the three from the
corner table. He looks at you carefully, then con-
sults a parchment. You suddenly realize that he and
his friends are Rogue Catchers, mercenaries who
live off the rewards offered for criminals. He pulls
out his sword as he shouts to his two companions.
They gather and attack. Fight each in turn.

SKILL STAMINA

First ROGUE CATCHER 6 6
Second ROGUE CATCHER 5 8
Third ROGUE CATCHER 6 7

If you survive, you make a rapid exit out of the
village. Turn to 398.

You bang on the door. Eventually, a sleepy Dwarf
appears and shouts through the thick barred door.
‘Go away, we’re closed.’ You ask for help in getting
your bearings north. Suddenly, he looks at you as
though for the first time and perks up. The door flies
open. He comes out of the inn holding a short-
sword, looks at you carefully and then turns round

215

to look at a parchment stuck on the inn wall with
your face drawn on it. ‘And why might you be
wanting to go there?’ You say nothing. The Dwarf
smiles, ‘Come in, | am a friend. The sign of your
coming has been passed by the Wazarri. You have
no time to lose. Ostragoth and Jaxartes have sealed
the area to the north. They are expecting you, They
have shut all meeting-places, and imposed a
curfew, Anyone seen outside will be killed and
bodies are to be searched by Mage Warriors only,
Now, keep to the higher land, follow this path, and
look for a flat-topped mountain, Find the three
holes at the top, they are all entrances to the
Homrath Caves. The True Path to the Fangs of
Fury.’ He makes the sign of the Cube with his index
finger and bows. ‘Now go quickly, and good luck.’
Add 1 to your Lucx score. He shakes your hand.
You set off. Turn to 58.

215
The Goblin pokes his sword at the Dwarf’s neck,
relishing the sport. Then he sees you and gets
another idea. ‘Come here, scum. You let this Dwarf

216-217

escape, so you will also die. That’s the law in this
army.’ He whistles and a second Goblin arrives.
You have no option but to pull out your sword and
attack first. Fight each in turn.

SKILL STAMINA
First GOBLIN 5 5
Second GOBLIN 5 5

If you survive, you notice the Bracelet glowing
(mark a captured Citadel Wall on your Adventure
Skeet). Turn to 283.

216

The path gets very bushy and you suffer several bad
scratches on your face from thorns (deduct 1 point
from your STAMINA). Eventually, the path splits.
You look to the left and see a small clearing with
what looks like a pile of bones on the ground. Do
you go towards the clearing (turn to 307) or do you
keep to the right-hand track (turn to 74)?

217

You walk along the forest path for many hours.
There seems to be no end to it, so you stop to rest for
a moment (add 2 points to your stAMINA), When
the Bracelet on your wrist glows (mark a captured
Citadel Wall on the Adventure Sheet), you force your-
self up again, but just then you notice an old black
bottle lying by a tree root. You pick it up but can see
nothing inside. Do you pull out the stopper and
open it (turn to 198) or leave it and carry on walking
(turn to 341)?
218

218

After several hours of sitting around, watching the
well-disciplined regiments march past, you realize
why they’re called the Irregulars. There is no order
at all. Disputes flare up, fights break out, people
stab each other. Suddenly, however, with no word
of command being issued, everybody gets up, picks
up their own particular weapons and moves as a
mass towards the siege lines. You walk with the
rabble and see a company of mounted Orcs waiting
to engage a force of Zamarran Knights who have
just charged out of the Citadel. The tactics are very
simple, The Irregulars charge at the Knights, slow
them down and any that get through are dealt with
by the Orcs.

A squad of Zamarran Knights charges straight at
your group. One Zamarran, who you recognize as
Peric of Innac, is unseated close to you. The weight
of his armour holds him down. A Goblin runs over
and prepares to cut his head off with an axe. Do you
decide to help Peric (turn to 153) or do you choose to
mount his horse and break out (turn to 72)?

219-220

219
You waik alongside the deep poot then pick up a
small track. At various places you find burnt-out
camp-fires. At one of them you kick something
round and white, It turns out to be a skull. To one
side you see 2 Black Cubes and you pick them up.
Add them to your Adventure Sheet. Turn to 74.

P ,
g
’ -

220
You trudge through the mountain valley breathing
in the pungent smoke from the volcano. Just before
you climb up a small rise you unexpectedly come
across the richly dressed figure of Snuffserk, King
Elidor’s Chancellor. He has a very worried look on
his face as he approaches. ‘Thank Heavens you've
come. They’ve captured the Wizard Astragal and
myself. They will kill him if you don’t hand over the
Torch. They’ve sent me to negotiate.’ He leads you
to a small cave. Astragal is chained up and a black-
cloaked Mage Warrior is about to plunge a Death-
Spell Dagger into him. ‘Don’t do it. Never mind our
lives. Go! Get away! screams the Wizard. Snuffserk
stands there waiting for you to hand over the
Torch. You touch him on the shoulder, fearing an
illusion, but one touch confirms that it is really he.
Do you hand over the Torch (turn to 21) or run away
as fast as you can (turn to 129)?

221-222

221

You know that you are fast on your feet and that you
hold the element of surprise. As you secure your
pack, ready to run, the Bracelet glows (mark a
captured Citadel Wall on the Adventure Sheet). You
take a deep breath and race across the bridge. Six
Orcs see you and are soon giving chase, some
running much faster than others. Throw a die for
the number that keep up with you. This number
does not relent and after a long race you are forced
to tum and fight. Fight the number of Orcs shown
by the die.

BRIDGE GUARD ORC(S) skILL 7 STAMINA 6

If you survive, you race on. Turn to 172.

222

You stagger on when, suddenly, a fireball comes
hurtling towards you. You duck down and scrabble
in the dirt as it passes over you. If you possess 1
Black Cube, you are unhurt. Deduct the cube from
your Adventure Sheet total. If you have no Black
Cube, deduct 4 points from yoursTAMINA. Tumto

274.

223-224

223

You enter the tent and find a cloaked figure in the
dark recesses. He speaks to you. ‘I have been wait-
ing for you. Come, put on this armour.’ You look
astonished and distrustful. He sees this on your
face. ‘Fear not,’ he whispers, ‘the Word has been
written and passed among the Wazarri warriors.
They and their allies will help you whenever they
can. You are the Prophecy come true of the New
Age. The Winter will be over; you will fire the
Spring. I am what you may term a spy. I gather
information for the Silent Knights. Now, quickly,
put on this armour, helmet and visor. You must ride
a patrol north. The rest is up to you. Good Luck.’
Add 1 point to your LUCK score. Turn to 154.

224
You point out the mistake to the one who’s losing

out. He looks very cross, pulls out a sword and the
two begin to fight. Then the unbelievable happens:
they manage to stab and wound each other fatally.
You can only just hobble away to a nearby bush
before a large war-chariot arrives and a black-
cloaked figure walks about sniffing at your trail. The
figure sees the dead Orcs, spits and curses them.

225

Just then, you hear a sweet melodious voice, ‘Come
back here. You must come back.’ It has a magical
attraction that you find hard to resist. Throw two
dice. If the result is greater than your STAMINA you
cannot stop yourself from hobbling back to the
figure. He throws you on to the chariot and races off
at great speed. Turn to 156.

If your STAMINA is equal to or greater than the
attraction, you resist by concentrating on an image
of Astragal the Wizard. The figure sits down, ex-
hausted, and the magic call fades away. The figure
finally leaves, and at last the magic bonds release
you. You find a track and proceed cautiously along
it. Turn to 267.

225
Everybody in the inn keeps very still and seems
to be waiting for something to happen. The Fire
Demon suddenly disappears. Then the deep boom-
ing voice gets louder and heavy steps sound until a
small boy appears, wearing cut-down magician‘s
robes and a hat that’s far too big for him. He looks

226

around at the mess and speaks in a high-pitched
voice: ‘1 want someone to play with.’ The other
people all cower and try not to catch his eye. ‘Who's
it to be?’ Do you volunteer (turn to 301) or keep quiet
like the rest (turn to 23)?

226
You light another torch as a group of bats flutter
around the top of the tunnel. Looking up you see
Blue Gems embedded in the roof of the tunnel. You
stretch up and hack.at them with your sword.
Throw a die for the number you chop out, but
deduct 1 point from your STAMINA for each one. If
you continue, the tunnel leads down to a large
cavern. You put your torch out as you see an amaz-
ing sight ahead of you: two dozen Dragonmen are
sitting around gorging themselves on bloody car-
casses, A large fire blazes in the centre of the cave.
just then, one of them opens a large chest and you
see that it is full of Gems. It pulls out a Gem and
places it between two of its scales. Then it shuts the
chest and takes it to a room on the left. It locks a
metal door and places the key ona hook by the wall.
Do you attempt to get the key (turn to 390) or do
you pass by and carry on along the tunnel! (turn to

157)?

227-228

227

You are marched off to a long field surrounded by a
high wooden fence. The Goblin in charge marches
up and down in front of you, shouting, ‘You are the
dregs, you need stiffening up. I’ve noticed you
wavering in several recent attacks. This group will
be made an example of. Now line up.’ You are made
to line up. Throw one or two dice (your choice) to
determine a position in the line. The Goblin points
to an archer at the other end of the field and a trench
half-way along. ‘Walk to the trench and you will be
safe. Anyone running or going in a different direc-
tion will be killed immediately by other means.’ He
toys with a Wand in his hand. The group begins to
walk towards the trench as the archer begins to fire
at them. Throw one die twice, then two dice twice
for where the arrows hit. If any of the four numbers
generated coincides with your position, then you
are hit by an arrow through the chest. You do not
survive. Your quest is over. If you get to the trench,
the group is rounded up. Turn to 394.

228
You place the last block in position and the door
opens to reveal your first view of the Fangs of Fury.
It is larger than you imagined but very distinctive,
like five upraised dragon fangs around a smoking

229

centre. A path sweeps down towards it. The door
clangs shut behind you and then disappears into
the rock. A black shadow crosses in front of the sun.
You look up to see a Grypvulture circling high
above you. You know that Jaxartes will have antici-
pated your arrival here so you hurry on, There are
three distinct paths to follow into the volcano.
Which do you take: the left (turn to 383), the right
(turn to 92) or the centre path (turn to 285)?

229
You enter a chamber full of dead bodies laid out on
tombs. Each body is that of a monk of great age.
Scattered about the floor are several skeletons of
Mage Warriors. They are charred and fleshless but
their clothing remains untouched. Suddenly an
ape-ike creature holding a long tube steps out of a
recess and speaks in a grunting, guttural voice. ‘]
am Grokkar, defender of the Tombs of the Dead,

230

You have trespassed into the most sacred of places.
Prepare to die.’ Fireballs suddenly shoot out from
the end of the tube straight at you. Test your Luck
three times. If you are Unlucky onany one occasion,
deduct 4 points from your sTAMINA; if you are
Unlucky twice, deduct 2 points from your SKILL as
well. If you are Unlucky on all three occasions, you
are killed, your quest is over.

lf you survive, you run towards two tunnels. Which
do you take: the left (turn to 375) or the right (turn to

34)?

230

You wake up when someone throws a bucket of
water over you. You find yourself among a group of
thirty sitting in the forward hold. Your eyes begin to
focus and you see the glow of the Bracelet on your
wrist (mark a captured Citadel Wall on the Adven-
ture Sheet). A Sea Orc stomps past and orders you all
to assemble by the mizzen-mast. The others trot off
and you follow. You wait for the arrival of the
Captain. He arrives and you recognize him: Cory-
Ander, a criminal who escaped the gibbet in
Zamarra a few years ago. He paces up and down
striking out with a whip at anyone within reach.
‘You,’ he points his whip at the group, ‘have the
honour of fighting in Ostragoth’s Fleet of Conquest.
You are pressed for life or 25 years (whichever is the
shortest). Now, form two lines.’ Do you join the line
on the left (turn to 306) or the one on the right (turn
to 106)?

231-232

231

You walk into a large square room. There are two
dead charred figures slumped on the floor and one
standing with his back to you. The figure spins
round. It is the Evil Wizard Jaxartes. ‘So, you have
come here to rekindle the Flame? You think that you
can defeat me, the mightiest of wizards? Come to
the core of the furnace; I will be waiting for you
around every corner.’ The figure disappears. In
front of you are two tunnels. Which do you decide
to follow: the one on the left (turn to 168) or the
tunnel on the right (turn to 61)?

232
You climb the mound and look round. At the top isa
large block of stone. You brush away some leaves to
reveal this message carved on the rock:

He that hath the Axe now speak the

13 2343 5471 549 827 533 29687 333
numbers

1909345
Of the name that cannot be uttered
12 553 4541 6670 344777 39 1192856

233

Search for the religion whose name ‘cannot be
uttered’, and go to the paragraph indicated by the
numbers below it. You will be told at once if you are
correct. If you do not know it, then you leave the
mound and carry on walking along the path. Turn

to 317.

233

You are in an empty cave. You stand in the middle
and watch as the ground drops away in front of each
of the three exits. The distance is twelve Zamarran
paces long. Your jump is your STAMINA less the
number of stone blocks you are carrying. If the
distance is greater than your jump then you fall and
die. Your quest is over.

If you succeed, there are three exits. Do you choose:

Exit 1? Turn to 187
Exit 2? Turn to 135
Exit 3? Turn to 349

As you leave, the holes magically fill up again.

234-236

234

You soon discover why the boat was left behind,
when it begins to leak. You have to bale out water
and paddle at the same time. Eventually, you see
light at the end of the tunnel. The underground
river runs into a pool. You proceed cautiously as
you hear raised voices and then the sound of a
struggle. You notice that the river has merged with
a thick marsh and that the Goblins are struggling
with the chest that seems to be stuck in the mud. In
the foreground is a dead body. When they see you,
the Goblins pull out smail daggers and attack. Do
you run away (turn to 159) or stand and fight (turn
to 320)?

235
You grab the parchment. If you have 1 Black Cube
(deduct it from the Adventure Sheet), you are unhutt;
if not, then deduct 2 points from your STAMINA.
You hold the parchment and read the strange

Was

You drop the paper and continue into the other
tunnel. Turn to 381.

236
You begin to run but the Press-Gang see you. They
give chase. Can you out-distance them? Throw
two dice for their speed and compare this to your

237-238

STAMINA. If their speed is the greater, they catch
you and hit you over the head. You black out. Turn
to 230. If you out-run them, you duck down a
narrow alleyway, Turn to 108.

237

‘Yes, it’s usually money. How much? Thirty Gold
Coins enough? Tell you what,’ he then produces
some dice, highest roll; double or nothing.’ You do
not have a choice in the matter with this weird,
powerful boy sorcerer. Throw two dice for the boy
and then two dice for yourself. Highest wins; if
throws are equal, throw again. If you win, he pro-
duces a purse with exactly 60 Gold Coins and hands
it to you. Add them to your Adventure Sheet.

The boy is satisfied with the game of chance and
wanders off. The villagers all breathe a sigh of relief
but many of them are taking a lively interest in you.
Some Rogue Catchers are looking at a parchment
and pointing to you. You decide to leave the village
quickly. Turn to 398.

238
You act like a true soldier of the elite corps: sword
out, move fast, and dive to the ground. You point
your sword at a strange, filthy-looking being
dressed in leather cap and apron. He holds a shovel
and seems to be a cross between a Dwarf and a man-
Orc. You get up and notice that you have dived into
a pile of green muck. The smell lingers and makes
you feel quite sick for the remainder of your mission

239-241

(deduct 1 point from your SKILL). ‘Ahem, are you
lost?’ he squeaks at you. Turn to 75.

239
Three Goblins have spotted you. They rush out of
their hiding-place and attack. The girl is scrabbling
around in the rocks looking for something. Fight
each in turn.

. SKILL STAMINA
First GOBLIN 5 5
second GOBLIN 6 6
Third GOBLIN 6 6
If you win, turn to 119.

240

You hand over the 3 Gold Coins (deduct them from
your Adventure Sheet). He also tells you that there is
a likely merchantman in the harbour about to sail,
‘The Gargu-Ran by name.’ He tells you to head for
the north-west coast of the island and then take the
track to the port. You launch the small boat and
paddle furiously to get through the waves.

When you are about half-way across, a large ten-
tacle slithers up the side of the boat and over your
knees. You stop paddling. Do you pull out your
sword and chop at it (turn to 66) or sit there and wait
patiently (turn to go)?

241
You are in a cave with an illegible inscription on a

242-244

wooden plaque. There are two exits. Which do you
choose: Exit 1 (turn to 201) or Exit 2 (turn to 76)?

242
When you get there it’s obvious that the Fire Demon
is only bent on destruction. It rampages around
punching great fiery holes in the walls, floor and
ceiling. It then speaks in a rushing, crackling voice,
‘My master comes. . . my master comes.’ You turn
to look at the landlord; his face has turned ashen.
Turn to 225.

243
All is still now, except for the moans of the
wounded. A thick mist descends upon the grim
landscape and you hear the creaking of a cart com-
ing towards you. Do you move quickly away from
here (turn to 12) or take a risk and lie on the rock to
see who is in the cart (turn to 77)?

244
You wake up and find yourself lying on a rocky
shelf overlooking a large green field. Just then, the
Bracelet glows (mark a captured Citadel Wall on the
Adventure Sheet). There are many Elves milling
around wearing brightly coloured clothing. There is
a buzz of excitement and a lot of high-pitched
chatter. There are stalls and games of skill and pipe-
playing competitions taking place across the field.
You try to get up but find yourself held down by a
thin cord. It should be easy to break, but when you
pull out your sword you find that you cannot cut it.

245-246

An Elven maid floats out of the shadows towards
you. ‘Well met, stranger. You are fortunate indeed.
The Flyers kill on sight in these troubled times but as
itis the Feast of Bradyliam and we are one short for
the Game. . . lassume you will agree to play?’ Do
you agree to play (turn to 6) or refuse (turn to 128)?

You are ina cave full of blocks of stone marked with
the motif of a crescent moon. Each block has the
number 75 on the reverse.

Each block weighs 10 Zamarra Weights. The max-
imum you can carry is 60 Zamarra Weights. If you
wish to take one of the blocks, mark the weight on
the Adventure Sheet. Do not exceed the maximum.

There are three exits. Do you choose:

Exit 1? Turn to 262

Exit 2? Turn to 395

Exit 3? Turn to 187
246

You follow the tunnel and come to a staircase lead-
ing down. On a landing you see a black-cloaked
Mage Warrior waiting for you, holding a fiery
Wand-sword. If you carry a Wand, fight as normal.
If not, then reduce your SKILL by 2 points for this
combat only.

MAGE WARRIOR SKILL 8 STAMINA 10

If you win, the stairs lead to a very large cavern.
Turn to 39.

247

247

The monk smiles and leads you into another room.
It has no windows and has been carved out of the
solid rock. Two torches light up the room. He
stands in front of a series of symbols that represent
warriors holding daggers and shields in various
positions of the compass. ‘Look carefully and learn
the Alphabet of Talin. A warrior language that has
long ago fallen into disuse among the others of this
country, itis still taught to the young in this village,
especially those destined to be Wazarri. It may be of
great help when you need it most.’ He points at the
symbols from top left to right, ‘These are the letters
a to h in the vulgar tongue. The symbols from
middle left to right represent the letters i to p, the
third row left to right are those from q to x, and the
last two symbols are y and z,’ He sits in silence for a
while as you concentrate on the characters.

He then asks you if you know the name-that-
cannot-be-uttered. If you do, do not read the next
paragraph.

He sighs, then begins to speak again. ‘I will now
utter the name. It means that I will die in a year and
a day, but, no matter, my time is soon. XEN is the
secret name of the religion. Look for it and you may
pass into secret places.’

The monk then pulls out a bag and hands you six
Black Cubes (add them to your Cube box). You
thank him for all his help, and he shows you the
path to take out of the village: over a wall and into

248-251

the nearby fields. You thank him again. ‘But itis we
that must thank you,’ he replies, ‘for you have the
great task. You are the Torchbearer who may save
us from our oppressors.’ Turn to 164.

248
You hear chirping and squawking in the tunnel and
see a small chamber to the left. Do you go into the
chamber (tur to 11) or carry on along the tunnel
(turn to 226)?

249
The small box opens easily. Inside, there is a small

Black Cube, nothing else. If you want to take it,
mark it on your Adventure Sheet. Turn to 12.

250
You pretend to be simple and stutter that you want
to join the elite regiment. You think that the Goblin
is convinced. ‘T’ll tell you where you're going,
you're being conscripted into Knuclers Irregulars.
You'll enjoy it there if you live long enough. Sprikk!
Another recruit for the Irregulars.’ Another Goblin
appears and marches you out into the trench. Turn
to 101.

251

There are other doors further along the corridor.
You are sure that you can hear murmuring behind
one of them. Do you go to investigate (turn to 337)
or go up the stairs (turn to 193)?

252-253

252
The Dark Elf notices the exchange between you and
the prisoner. He rides over to you and peers into
your eyes, then looks at the now-silent prisoner. He
snarls his orders at you. ‘The prisoner spoke to you
in an impertinent manner. For that he must be
punished. Kill him!’ He watches you carefully as
you make a movement with your sword. You know
that you cannot kill anyone in cold blood even for
the sake of the mission. The Dark Elf sees this in
your eyes and drops a small object in the sand. It
exudes a foul stench. You cannot move. He calls a
Goblin over and orders him to take you for inter-
rogation and then rides away. The paralysis wears
off but you are now well guarded. The Goblin asks
you where you come from and you reply, “The
Citadel.” Turn to 151.

253
They are rogues but not killers. They ask you to
throw your valuables across to them. You can hear
the sound of hoofbeats on the cobbled road. You
cannot free yourself, so you decide to comply with
their wishes but only throw them half of your Gold

254

Coins, Gems and Crystals (make the appropriate
adjustments to your Adventure Sheet).

They seem satisfied with the result and release a
smalt monkey who clutches a small key. The
monkey leaps over to the trap and unlocks it then
bounds off into the undergrowth. You scramble off
the road just before a war-chariot hurtles past,
followed by a troop of mounted Orcs. They are
obviously heading north, perhaps after you. Do you
stay on the road (turn to 59) or slip away on a thin
trail heading into the woods on your left (turn to
216).

254

You flick over the pages of the ledger and, to your
surprise, come to a page headed, ‘Snuffserk, King
EFlidor’s Chancellor’. It looks as though he has re-
ceived thousands of Gold Coins over the last few
months from Ostragoth and Jaxartes. You are as-
tounded. Suddenly you hear the voice of the Evil
Wizard. ‘I have not forgotten you. I will be back
soon, but in the meanwhile here is a litile friend of
mine to keep you amused.’ A hideous double-
headed Devil with long spiked tail and horns on
both heads appears and attacks you with bright red,
clawed hands.

DOUBLE-HEADED
DEVIL SKILL7 STAMINA 10

If you survive, you get out of the room and leap up
the spiral staircase three steps at a time. Turn to 351.

255-256

255
You attack your bodyguard. Although she is not a
full knight, she is very well trained.

BODYGUARD KNIGHT sxitt8 stAMinsag

If you survive, turn to 206.

256
The monk then opens his eyes, looks at you and
speaks. ‘There is no need for explanations, the
Prophecy has told me all. The Way you follow is
very hard and I am here to be of some little help.’ He
opens his palm to reveal a large white die, he hands
it to you and as you reach out to take it, it disap-
pears, but you have a vision of it spinning in your
mind. ‘This is the Die of the Seven Levels of the
Wazarri. In your travels to the Fangs of Fury you
must look clearly and carefully even at times of the
greatest danger. If you see a vision of a piece of
thread linking six white cubes, you may spin the die
in your mind and aim for your True Level. Be true to
yourself. You will not physically handle anything
but the number of White Cubes you have will be
known to others when you reach our sacred centre.’

Throughout your mission you must look carefully at
the page illustrations you encounter for the thread
and the six white cubes. If you see them, throw a die
and mark the number rolled in the lower Cube box
of the Adventure Sheet. If you see less than six white
cubes, then you may only have up to the maximum
you see; if your die roll exceeds the number of cubes

 eeeeeeiaeesesesai(i(‘i i

256

you can see, you must round the roll down to the
number of cubes you can see.

The monk then stands up. ‘Isee the need for explan-
ation in your eyes, | have no time to go into details,
others may do that. It is enough to know that
Jaxartes is killing our people, the Guardians of the
Furnace, and is trying to extinguish our noble Flame
at the Fangs of Fury. Look to the Novices, the
fighting arm of our Order, those that are forbidden
to speak, the Wazarri Silent Knights. They will help
whenever they can but even they cannot hold out
against the massive Evil sweeping the land.’

The monk picks up the axe and places it on his
shoulder, ‘I will now entrust you with the greatest
secret. I will utter the name of our religion — that will
consign me to death in one year and one day. Look
to XEN, it will help you pass gates that cannot be
passed. Now the True Way is yours to find.’ The
monk swings at a tree and cuts it with a single blow.
‘Go! They know you are here.’ You look across to
see a Dark Elf and several Goblins conferring. You
drop down into the bushes, Do you run off to the
right (turn to 177) or to the left (turn to 111)?

257-258

257
You continue along the road and eventually cross a
smail bridge. Now you must decide whether to
continue on the fast road (turn to 376) or go towards
a plain just ahead of you (turn to 290).

258

You stand firm, sword in hand, ready for the Orcs.
But suddenly they stop and look over your shoul-
der. You glance back to see a black-cloaked figure
in the process of throwing something at you. You
are immediately surrounded by white-hot flames.
You begin to suffocate as the air is quickly used up.
You are forced to charge out of the ring of fire. If you
have 1 Black Cube (mark it off on the Adventure
Sheet) you plough through it unharmed, but a wait-
ing Orc stabs you (deduct 4 points from your
STAMINA). You rush up the steps. Turn to 326.

If you have no Black Cubes, the heat is intense and
you collapse just outside the circle. Your quest is
over.

ee ss
259

259

You stare at undreamt-of riches: the Dragonmen’s
Hoard. The room is full of Gold Coins, Gems and
Crystals. However, when you get to the centre of
the room you see a Dragon’s skeleton and sitting
inside its rib-cage is a Dwarf. He holds a handful of
Gems and speaks: “Take only what you require.
Greed will not benefit you; many have tried but few
have succeeded.’

You work out exactly how much you require to pay
the ransom for the Torch and take just that amount
(add this to your Adventure Sheet). You look towards
the metal door at the end of the cave: it is bright red
and beginning to melt. You do not understand what
the Dwarf is doing there but before you can say
anything, he begins to speak. ‘This is my Fate.
Worry not about me. Iam a Seer from the Iron Hills
that were melted down to produce the essence of
the Fangs of Fury, I see your quest in my mind and
bid you seek the Homrath Caves. The path to Fury
lies there. We Dwarfs built it for the Wazarri in a
greater age. Now, the Dragonmen are close to
breaking through. Under the chest is a trapdoor,
follow it and, whatever happens, keep your eyes
shut until you feel fresh air on your face.’ Turn to
103.

260-261

260
You feel your way along the tunnel. Occasionally,
you walk into thick cobwebs and hear scurrying
sounds on the ground. Something bites your ankle
and pierces the thick leather of your boot (deduct 1
point from your STAMINA). The tunnel begins to
slope upwards and then feels very damp underfoot.
Now and then you can hear the sound of waves
crashing against rocks. Suddenly, you walk into a
wall. Stumbling around, you find two tunnels both
sloping downwards. Do you choose to take the left-
hand tunnel (turn to 54) or the right (turn to 353)?

261

You reach the top of the cliff and are about to
scramble up a large overhanging rock when you
hear talking. You stop to listen: ‘Jax wants this
Torchbearer badly now. It would appear that the
very essence of his power is at stake, if the Flame is
re-lit and the Sentinels awakened. He must be. . .”
The shadow of a black cloak falls across your face.
Just then the rock you are crouching on moves. Test
your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 385. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 73.

262-263

262
You are in an empty cave with nothing more to be
seen than a drawing of a broken phial and a skull
and cross-bones on the wall. There are two exits. Do
you choose Exit 1 (turn to 107) or Exit 2 (turn to 245)?

263
You whisper that you have the Torch hidden, but he
does not seem interested. He is satisfied with your
trust. He says nothing for several minutes then
speaks. ‘You must leave this place. I will help you.
My name is Kendoki, a monk from the Order of
Wazarri. There is no need for explanations, the
Prophecy has told us all. The Way you follow is very
hard and I am here to be of some little help.’ He
opens his paim to reveal a large white die. } le hands
it to you and, as you reach out to take it, it disap-
pears but you have a vision of it spinning in your
mind. ‘This is the Die of the Seven Levels of the
Wazarri. In your travels to the Fangs of Fury you
must look clearly and carefully even at times of the
greatest danger. If you see a vision of a piece of

263

thread linking six white cubes, you may spin the die
in your mind and aim for your True Level. Be true to
yourself. You will not physically handle anything
but the number of White Cubes you have will be
known to others when you reach our sacred centre.’

wt
as rs
etr ‘
gr
- ~~ 7
at f
#

Throughout your mission you must look carefully at
the page illustrations you encounter for the thread
and the six white cubes. If you see them, throw a die
and mark the number rolled in the lower Cube box
of the Adventure Sheet. If you see less than six white
cubes, you may only have up to the maximum you
see; if your die rol] exceeds the number of cubes you
can see, you must round the roll down to the number
of cubes you can see.

hs

The monk then stands up. ‘I see the need for explan-
ation in your eyes. I have no time to go into details,
others may do that. It is enough to know that
Jaxartes is killing our people, the Guardians of the
Furnace, and is trying to extinguish our noble Flame

at the Fangs of Fury. Look to the Novices, the

263

fighting arm of our Order, those that are forbidden
to speak, the Wazarri Silent Knights. They will help
whenever they can but even they cannot hold out
against the massive evil sweeping the land.

ff

whee

‘T will now entrust you with the greatest secret. I will
utter the name of our religion - that will consign me
to death in one year and one day. Look to XEN, it
will help you pass gates that cannot be passed. Now
the True Way is yours to find, and you must leave.’

He stands up and gets hold of the metal bars and
pushes them apart with seeming ease. ‘XEN is
powerful but I cannot profit by it. I must stay here.’
He bids you farewell and sits down again. The other
prisoners charge out of the prison and you follow.
You step down and find your sword in the barrel
and duck down under the wagon. In a few minutes
the alarm is raised by coarse-sounding bugles. You
know that you would be better concealed in a
group. Do you head for a group of infantry resting
in a nearby field (turn to 189) or for a company of
Orc cavalry with attendants waiting to the right of
the camp (turn to 280)?

264-266

264
You keep climbing until you reach the top of a large
rocky outcrop. Suddenly, a huge hand lifts you up
by the scruff of your neck. You see a Giant in front of
you, three times your height. He smiles a smelly,
fang-toothed smile and shakes you to see if you are
alive. Turn to 50.

265
You drop on to the sand and cover as much of
yourself as you can, leaving a small gap to breathe
through. You wait, not daring to move a muscle.
Eventually, the creature sinks back into the sand
and you get up. You run off along the beach. Add 1
point to your LUCK. Turn to 97.

266

You open the door and step in. There are a few more
burnt remains of parchments and books in this
room. There is also a small window looking into the
next room. You hear shouting and peek carefully
into the other room. You see a black-cloaked figure,
muttering to herself. ‘I know they’re here some-
where. They can’t hide from me, the right hand of
Jaxartes. By the Spells of Unuk Kochaar, Open! I
command it, by all that’s foul.’ She kicks at a plaque
in the wall and then storms out. You can hear her
stomping down the gallery calling for Klinker. You
wait for a few minutes then go out and enter the
other room. Turn to 330.

267-268

267

You continue along the track and after a while you
catch sight of the small port. There are a couple of
ships in the harbour. You are careful to stay within
sight of cover and eventually reach the outlying
buildings of the port. You keep to the smaller alley-
ways and make your way to the quayside. You look
at the two ships. They look very similar, the one on
the left is called the Gargu-Ran but you can see no
name on the other ship. There are no guards about
and the main activity seems to be loading. It seems
very simple to sneak on board by picking up a bale
and following the ship-hands. Which ship do you
choose: the Gargu-Ran (turn to 4) or the one on the
right (turn to 120)?

268
You carry on and see a light ahead. It flashes on,
then off, and before you realize what’s happening a
Dragonman flutters past and drops behind you. He
screams a word that sounds like ‘thief’ and attacks.

DRAGONMAN  sxIL1Lg

If you survive, you discover that the Dragonman’s
wings are studded with Gems (10 Multi-Coloured, 5
Yellow, 2 Blue). If you have enough to pay the
ransom, turn to 32. If you have to continue, the
tunnel forks. Do you go left (turn to 114) or right

STAMINA 10

(turn to 362)? a?
avs ty.
~ V6Tt

a)
269-270

269

Suddenly, three Orcs come from the direction of
the commotion. They are carrying all manner of
plunder. You recognize the insignia as Ostragoth’s.
One of them stops, with a shout, ‘Hey, lads, I forgot
this.” He pulls out a parchment from his jerkin
pocket and pins it to a tree with a couple of nails.
Then they stagger away. One or two locals walk
over to read the notice. Do you also go to the tree
(turn to 347) or cautiously walk away and see what's
happening in the village (turn to 158)?

270

You scamper down to the side of the river and look
across. The water does not seem too deep and there
are no visible dangers; only a few small fish. You
wade in up to your thighs. Just then there is a
disturbance in the water, one of the small fish flies
out of the water and bites your elbow (deduct 2
points from your STAMINA). You hurry across, but
more flying Flesh Fish flip out at you. Throw two
dice for the number that jump out and then two dice
for the number you manage to ward off with your
sword. If any get through, they bite you. Deduct 2
points from your STAMINA for each bite received.
Across the river, you have the choice of heading for
a rough clearing (turn to 185) or along a defined path
(turn to 176). Which way do you go?

271-272

274

At the top of the tower, you see a Gargoyle. It is
striding about flapping its long wings. It notices you
and prepares to attack but then it stoops over and a
voice from its beak tells you to get on its back. The
voice sounds like the Wizard Astragal’s. You get on
and hold tight as the Gargoyle takes off and sweeps
you away from Jaxartes’ lair. “This is the last help we
can give you,’ squawks the creature. ‘Even this has
cost us dearly. Jaxartes is very powerful now, he has
staked everything on extinguishing the Flame at the
Fangs of Fury. You must hurry and. . . monks of
Wazarri. . .’ The message is indistinct, then stops.
The creature dumps you in a grassy field and then
limps off exhausted. You look around. There are no
signs of the siege here. You see a river ahead: do you
head there (turn to 20)? Or do you continue along
the field (turn to 109)?

272
The fire at the entrance is intense. The Giant is
chasing you, intent on murder. Do you run through
the fire (turn to 166) or stand and fight (turn to 63)?

273

273
Jaxartes screams a scream like the combined tor-
ments of Hell. He is consumed by the fire until you
can only see his face in the white-hot conflagration.
The fury of the volcano is unleashed. You collapse
in the intense heat. You dream that you are floating
through the tunnels out into the fresh air.

When you awake you feel a cool hand on your
brow. You are in a large airy room overlooking a
lush green valley. A girl is wiping your forehead.
You suddenly remember your mission. ‘How are
the Wizards? And the siege? What has happened?
Where am I? The girl smiles. “You are in the Wazarri
monastery of Hei-okji. You are safe, do not worry.’
She then produces a small crystal ball and places it
in your hand. ‘Look deep into the glass,’ she tells
you. Turn to 91.

274-275

274

You carry on and enter a whole series of tunnels and
chambers that take many hours to pass. The Brace-
let glows twice in the time you are there (mark two
Citadel Walls breached by Ostragoth’s forces on the
Adventure Sheet). The path eventually passes a sheer
drop. Do you climb down (turn to 364) or do you
carry on along the tunnel (turn to 246)?

275
You are correct. You have spoken the numbers of

XEN, the name-that-cannot-be-uttered. A thin blue
mist rises from the block and then there appears the
small figure of a monk. ‘Greetings. If you are the
Torchbearer spoken of in Prophecies, speed is now
of the essence. The Evil of Jaxartes has penetrated
even these monastery walls. If by previous advice
you were asked to seek the three Wazarri guides, do
not do so for they have been killed. Follow the forest
path, ever forwards, until you reach the bridge. Do
not cross the bridge, but look for the warrior with
the fist of fire. She will take. . .’ Suddenly, thereisa
scream and you see two manic eyes looking at you.
‘Torchbearer , . .. You shudder at the madness in
them and step off the mound. Turn to 317

4

276-277

276

The warriors get up and smile as they greet you.
They seem to know your face. They say nothing but
slap you on the back and offer you some of their
roast meat. As you get a good grip of a huge lump of
tender meat, one of the warriors stabs you in the
back! You turn to see the face of a Gark. Deduct 1
point from your sKILL and 4 points from your
STAMINA. You run off into the river but collapse in
the water as poison courses through your blood.
You black out. Turn to 25.

277

The crashing gets nearer and you can hear sniffing
and shouting. You realize that they are probably
looking for you. The woman pulls out a sword. It is
clear that she intends to make a stand to give you a
chance to get away. She points out a direction for
you to follow. You leave her, knowing that she is
very capable. You scramble away and after a few
minutes you can hear screams and the sound of
crashing steel. Just then you see the Bracelet glow
(mark a captured Citadel Wall on the Adventure
Sheet). You reach the cliffs opposite the island of
Karakum and are faced with two courses of action:
down to the sandy cove below (turn to 15) or carry-
ing on along the clifftop path (turn to 207). Which do
you choose?
278-279

278
You tun over the sand dunes, drop down the other
side and nearly land on a Great Orc who is burying
something in the sand. He turns round and swipes
at you with his hand. ‘Spy! 1 bet he sent you to spy
on me, but you won’t getit.’ He charges at you as he
pulls out a short, stabbing sword. You try to say
you're not interested in what he’s doing, but he
does not listen. You are forced to defend yourself.

GREAT ORC

SKILL7 STAMINA 6

If you win, do you get away from that place at once
(turn to 333) or do you dig up the object he was
burying (turn to 124)?

279

You are in a torchiit tunnel. There are various things
lying around: buckets, shoes, hats, bones, rotting
fruit and a pile of sludge that smells awful. You walk
along and the smell gets worse. Eventually you get
to a shaft or well. You look down to see a pit full of
the sludge and look up to see daylight. Just then,
somebody coughs behind you. Do you pull out your
sword and attack (turn to 238) or calmly turn around
and see who it is first (tum to 334)?

280-281
Ps
280

You march towards the Orc cavalry. Each Orc has a
miserable-looking attendant and as you move be-
tween the horses, one of the Orcs calls to you: ‘You,
hold this horse and give my boots a clean.’ You look
up and ask what with. ‘Your clothes,’ replies the
furious Orc. ‘D’you think we keep you here to look
smart?’ You do as you are bid; then he hands you a
lance and tells you to keep up. The cavalry walk
their mounts forward in readiness for an attack. All
the attendants trot behind with various bundles.
You get to the scene of the battle exhausted (deduct
2 points from your STAMINA). They are attacking
the forward southern tower of the Citadel. You hear
the whistling of a shower of arrows and then the
Orcs charge. All you can see is smoke and you can
hear shouting. Suddenly, a riderless horse trots up
to you and stops. Do you choose to get on it and ride
away (tum to 7) or do you prefer to sneak away on
foot (turn to 150)?

. 281
You land way below the fortress on some soft turf, a
little shaken but nothing serious. You can hear
orders being shouted from above. You suspect that
you have been spotted. You set off as fast as pos-
sible. Ahead, on the horizon, you see the begin-
nings of the northern mountains. Turn to 131.
282-283

282
You walk across the grassy plain for many hours.
You notice the Bracelet on your wrist glowing (mark
a captured Citadel Wall on the Adventure Sheet).
There is no one around but occasionally you catch
sight of groups of wild horses, Eventually, you
come into a small valley. At its head stands a statue
of a monk making the sign of a cube with his palms.
The statue has been daubed in blood and the head
half chopped off. The track continues towards a
small village just visible on the horizon. Turn to 3.

283

You hide the grim remains of the fight, wipe your
blade and look around for the Dwarf but see no sign
of him. You return and tell a Goblin guard that the
Dwarf has escaped and that others are giving chase.
A Dark Elf, sitting in the shade of a great oak, yawns
and speaks up. ‘It’s always the same, no one’s ever
escaped from here. They'll get him.’ You stand on
guard, wondering how to get away when you spy a
strange, bald man who could be a monk. He wields
an axe with unnatural power: three strikes and a
tree crashes to the ground. You move over to get a
better view and he speaks to you. ‘Stranger, I know
your secret. Come into that clump of bushes. I wish
to talk.’ Do you decide to follow him (tum to 173) or
do you ignore him (turn to 80)?

a ~~

‘

284-285

284

It’s a long way up. You climb hand over hand and
have the odd rest but it is very tiring (deduct 2
points from your STAMINA). Just when you are
close to the top, you see the flash of a knife and the
rope is cut. Test your Luck. Lf you are Lucky, you find
a handhold on the side of the well and climb out.
You can see no trace of the old woman but the kitten
is standing on the roof of the well. Turn to 112.

If you are Unlucky, you cannot cling on to anything
and crash down (deduct 6 points from your
STAMINA). If you survive, you scamper into the
hole you found (turn to 68).

285
You reach the entrance to the Fangs of Fury without
any sign of pursuit. You enter a torchlit cave and
walk along a wide corridor that splits into two
smaller corridors. Do you go to the left (turn to 246)
or to the right (turn to 379)?
286-288

286

You open your eyes, blink and shut them again
when you feel a thudding pain at the back of your
head. When you manage to focus your eyes, you
begin to wish you were still asleep. You see an Orc
executioner standing above you with two Goblins
by his side. Your head is resting on a bloody block
and you are being watched by a group of disin-
terested spectators. The Orc raises the axe over his
head when suddenly a small dart plants itself in the
side of his thick neck. He freezes for a moment then
topples over. Your bonds are suddenly cut by a
female warrior. She throws you a sword before
turning to face four Orcs who are running at her. Do
you help the warrior (turn to 43) or engage a Goblin
who is heading your way with dagger raised (turn
to 382)?

287

The disturbance seems to get worse and a lot of the
parents come to the school to take their children
away. You notice that the little girl is met by an
elderly monk. They pass you and the girl points you
out. The old man smiles and thanks you; he then
stops for a moment and comes to look you in the
eyes. ‘Come with me,’ he commands. Do you fol-
low (turn to 102) or walk away and head for the
disturbance (turn to 158)?

288
The girl leads you through a series of difficult paths
and secret tracks that lead into the lower northern

289-290

mountains. Eventually, you look down at a large
fort encircled by a massive ring of fire. Milling
around outside it is a squadron of Goblins, led by a
Dark Elf. You climb down and get close to the flame
wall. Turn to 119.

289
You don’t want to risk an outright lie so you admit
to having just arrived that day from the north and
wanting to join up. ‘So you’ve heard in the Citadel
about the booty to be had, eh? Well you look strong
enough for Knuclers Irregulars. Come with me.’ He
leads you through the lines. Everything is in great
confusion. Occasionally a stray arrow slams into the
mud. The Goblin leads you into a trench and then
into a room dug out of the earth. He calls to some
others, ‘Grab this one!’ Two large rough types run
towards you. Do you pull out your sword and fight
(turn to 318) or let yourself be taken (turn to 49)?

290
You trudge on for several hundred paces and trip
over a Compass Stone in the thick grass. It clearly

290

points the correct direction to take (add 1 port
to your LUCK score) and you pick up a path that
seems to head that way. You walk for many hours
and notice the Bracelet on your wrist glow once
(mark another Citadel Wall captured by Ostragoth’s
army on the Adventure Sheet). Suddenly, two fire-
balls crash on the ground to your right. They unroll
to reveal two Fire Demons, winged creatures
breathing a belching white-hot flame and holding
flaming swords. If you have a Wand or 1 Black Cube
(deduct 1 Black Cube from your Adventure Sheet),
fight as normal and fight each in turn. If you have
neither of these, reduce your SKILL by 2 points for
this combat only.

SKILL STAMINA
First FIRE DEMON 7 9
Second FIRE DEMON 8 8

If you survive, you realize that there is an evil magic
aura here and you sense the hand of Jaxartes. You
walk on along the twisting path, until you come toa
tall pillar of rock. A boy, chained to the top, is being
attacked by two Dragonmen. Do you help (turn to
52) or concentrate on your urgent mission (turn to
99)?
291-293 .

291
The figure remains perfectly still. You take the box
and open the lid. It contains 6 Black Cubes. If you
wish to take them, add them to the Cube box of
your Adventure Sheet. You continue your progress
through the trapdoors. Turn to 192.

292
The ground gets firmer and rises until you get out of
the steamy marsh and up on to a small grassy hill.
You look to the north: just ahead, there is a grassy
plain (turn to 282) flanked by a great wood (turn to
210). Which way do you go?

293

You drop into the pool. Your bonds are freed imme-
diately and you manage to swim away from the
Orcs. Suddenly, the chasing Orcs stop still as a war-
chariot crashes through the bushes driven by a

294

black-cloaked figure, You get out of the water,
Somehow, the strange newcomer detects you. He
shouts at the Orcs, ‘You fools, he’s there!’ The Ores
give chase and catch you up for you cannot move
fast with sopping wet clothes and pack. Fight each
in turn.

SKILL STAMINA
FirstORC 6 5
Second ORC 6 6

If you survive, you turn to run but find yourself
surrounded by a black mist. You feel huge hands
grabbing you and hauling you into the chariot. Ina
matter of seconds you are lying on its floor, hurtling
along at a terrific speed. Turn to 156.

294
The Elf-guide introduces himself as Orgelas. He is

nimble across the craggy rocks and does not favour
conversation. He takes you to the end of the rocky
land and points to the north. You see a grassy plain
and a great wood. As a parting gesture he takes
from his pocket a small pancake. ‘Eat this when
you are in the greatest need. It will provide good
sustenance.” (Add the pancake to your Adventure
Sheet; it will have the same effect as a Potion of
Strength.) He bids you farewell and you have to
choose between entering the wood (turn to 210) or
walking on to the plain (turn to 282).

ghee
el He 3
ot, oct yay”
a, <i --
Va”
/
a
295-297

295

You unpack your flint, strike a few sparks and get a
fire started. The bushes stop moving as you create a
raging inferno. You hear a hideous wail and the
trees begin to move away from you. But, by now,
you are surrounded by a great wall of fire. There is
no other option but to jump through the flames to
get away. If you have a Black Cube (deduct 1 Black
Cube from your Adventure Sheet total), you are un-
harmed. If you have no Black Cube, throw a die and
deduct the result from your sTa MINA for the harm-
ful effects of the fire. You stumble out of the magic
woods. Turn to 392.

296
The flames scorch your clothes and burn at your
skin (deduct 1 point from your sk1Lt and 4 points
from your STAMINA). You catch your breath and

then, painfully, carry on with your mission. Turn to
121,

297
The Bracelet glows (mark another Citadel Wall
breached on the Adventure Sheet). Just then, another
sailor swims alongside and you help him up on to
the raft. He is very muscular and heavy, and almost
sinks it. He looks at you and tells you that there’s

298

only room for one person on the raft. ‘I think I'll kill
you,’ he declares as he reaches for his sword. You
fight in the restricted space.

ROGUE SAILOR SKILL4

If you survive, the raft finally beaches itself on a
wide sandy coast. Ahead, you can see a small
settlement (turn to 3) and to the left a mass of giant
rocks (turn to 361). Which way do you go?

STAMINA 6

298
The smoke rises up and you begin to choke as you
breathe it in. The path ahead becomes a wall of
scorching heat. You try to swing your sword but
cannot get near the double-headed Serpent. Then
another Serpent drops down from a branch above
you. On its massive trunk it carries a warrior of
terrifying appearance. He is well armoured and
carries an axe in one hand and a flaming scimitar in
the other. He drops to the ground, grunts and
swings the scimitar at you.

KRAGAAR SKILL8

If you survive, the Serpents become very agitated
and begin to encircle you with a wall of fire. Do you
run through the flames (turn to 96) or wait for the
flames to die down (turn to 47)?

STAMINA 10
299-300

299

You enter the cave at the First Level. You stand by a
fiery chasm and a strange hooded figure stands in
front of you. The figure has a dark face, blazing eyes
and clasps a flaming spear. Across the chasm is a
bridge and on the bridge are carved spaces for six
cubes. The figure speaks in a booming voice. ‘Your
way is the hardest but if you are strong and resolute
you will win through.’ It moves backwards and
slides away into the tunnel. You look at the bridge
and try to walk across. As you approach the first
square hole, a wall of fire flares up from the
chasm. If you have 6 Black Cubes, use them now
and place them in the holes (deduct the number
from your Adventure Sheet). For each Black Cube
you lack, deduct 2 points from your STAMINA
as the flames leap out at you. If you survive, you
cross the chasm and enter another tunnel. Turn
to 310.

300

The first door you open leads into a room which
contains a few chairs and tables. Everything is over-
turned and there is a pile of ashes in the centre of the
room. You pick up a partly burnt parchment but all
you can make out are a few meaningless words. You
open a second door and this leads to another room.
You go in and find blood stains on the walls and
floor. You then hear a knocking sound from a small
cupboard on the left. Do you open the cupboard
door (turn to 52) or go outside back into the court-
yard (turn to 251)?
301-302

301
You walk forward and present yourself. He leaps
up and down, pleased with himself. ‘Come out-
side!’ he calls, and you go outside. Turn to 171.

302
The tentacle wraps itself around the end of the small
craft and gently slithers towards you. You pull out
your sword and chop it off in one blow. There is a
scream and a rush of air from the water below and
several, much larger tentacles appear. They pull at
the boat and it snaps in half. You fall into the water
and begin to swim. The current sweeps you back
towards the mainland.

Throw two dice: this is the strength needed to swim
to avoid the creature. If this is greater than your
STAMINA then you fail and you are dragged under
by the creature. Your quest ends here.

If you succeed, you collapse on the beach (deduct 4
points from your STAMINA). You do not know
where you are, so you climb upa cliff-path and look
around. Below you is another cove. Lying on the
beach, half in, half out of the water, is a figure
dressed in warrior’s clothes. Do you go down to
investigate (turn to 312) or carry on along the cliff
(turn to 207)?

393

* 3 Z /
303

You wake up and find yourself in a small wooden
compound. You sit up and see a Dwarf in front of
you and two small Orcs in the corner. The Orcs
seem to be constantly moaning, ‘I told you we’d
never get away with it, now they'll put us in a front-
line regiment. I told you there was nothing wrong
with the blacksmiths’ squadron but no .. .” The
Dwarf just stares blankly as though waiting for
something. Several other soldiers are brought in but
what strikes you as strange is that no one is relieved
of weapons or possessions. Yours are all intact. You
then hear one of the guards talking: ’. . . and he’s
searching them all himself. Never seen the likes of
it. Stops our perks, then comes here to take what
little we can steal. Flaming liberty, I callit.. .” Just
then, the Dwarf pulls out a small horn and blows it
three times. Then he chops at the fence with an axe
and, in seconds, makes a hole big enough to get
through. He calls you over and you both charge
through it. Instead of going the way you expected,
away from the camp, he heads for its centre. Do you
follow him there (turn to 26) or do you head off
towards good cover (turn to 149)?
304-305

304
You have no other option but to scramble down the
other side of the mountain while you are being
attacked by the Dragonmen. Reduce your SKILL by
1 point for this combat only. Fight each in turn.

SKILL STAMINA

First DRAGONMAN 7 7
Second DRAGONMAN 7 8
Third DRAGONMAN 8 9

If you win, you reach the bottom of the cliff and
scramble for cover. Turn to 220.

305
You get to the island, and land the boat in a small
harbour. You look around: the island is also being
used for mast repairs, food preparation, and the
construction of siege weapons. Most of the work is
being carried out by chain-gangs. The prisoners are
unchained and marched off and your group of
guards is told to form two lines. Which do you
choose: the left line (turn to 227) or the right (turn to

394)?

306

306

You are assigned work below deck, deep in the
bowels of the ship. You have to shift huge boxes
into various holds (deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA). Two hours out, you hear a commotion
above. Orders are shouted and you can hear strange
screams. Suddenly, the side of the hold you are
working in is burst open by a massive ship’s
battering-ram. Water spurts in and the hold fills up.
You cannot get out of the door for it has already
been shut and bolted. You hold your breath as you
feel the ship shudder and begin to sink. Throw two
dice: if you throw a double, you find a large-enough
hole in the side of the hold to get out into the ocean.
If you do not throw a double, try again but deduct 4
points from your STAMINA. Repeat until you get
out or die.

If you get out, you float to the surface just in time to
see the mast of the ship go down. Then a thick mist
descends and you cannot see anything else. Shortly
after, a piece of wood from the deck floats by (add 1
point to your LUCK score), and you clamber on.
Turn to 297.

es )3=—|

307-308

307

You pass over the pile of bones. There are other
objects scattered around: bits of old leather armour,
broken swords and two leather purses. You pick up
the purses and open them. One contains 10 Gold
Coins and the other 15 Gold Coins, You pocket
these (add 25 Gold Coins to your Adventure Sheet
and 1 LUCK point) and continue walking. The forest
path forks. Do you go to the right (turn to 217) or the
left (turn to 125)?

308

You go over to him and sit down, He looks at you
with intense, fiery eyes. ‘Yes, Trust is the Way. |
know your mission will be hard, You must trust me,
there is no other choice. Do you have the Torch?’
You are shocked by this question. What do you
reply? Do you say that you have it (turn to 263) or
say nothing and move away from the old man (turn
to 5)?

309-311

309
You pull out your swerd and stride across the
bridge, When you are exactly in the middle, it
collapses under you, then folds up magically into a
wooden cage. You hear the sound of laughter as
you plunge into the cold water, You black out. Turn
to 25.

310

The tunnel is covered by intricate carvings and
drawings. You feel like an intruder at the centre of a
sacred monument but you have no time to stop. At
that moment you notice two Flame Warriors. At
first they stand stock-still, then come to life in a
blazing fury. Your own sword begins to blaze
magically. Fight each in turn.

SKILL STAMINA
First FLAME WARRIOR a 9
Second FLAME WARRIOR 8 10

If you survive, turn to 387.

311
You have pressed the correct sequence. The spikes
stop falling and the cage opens. You walk on. Turn
to 231. ‘

312-314

312
You approach, looking carefully at the scene. The
figure is a female warrior and she is about to be
dragged into the water by an Octopod creature, Its
tentacles already have a hold on one of her legs. You
pull out your sword and chop at the tentacle. It
takes you three hefty strikes before you cut it off.
The woman gets up and runs away from the beach
with surprising agility. Do you follow her (turn to
144) or carefully look around for any other creature

(turn to 86)?

313

The surge loses its power a long way up-river, You
swim towards the shore and notice the glow of
the Bracelet (mark a captured Citadel Wall on your
Adventure Sheet). Just then, something grabs your
collar and you are lifted up by a Giant who is
straddling the river, Do your draw your sword and
stab at the Giant (turn to 388) or go quietly without a
struggle (turn to 50)?

314
The monk looks disappointed. ‘You have endeav-
oured to find the True Way, but fortune has not
315-316

smiled upon you. Fear not, you may still succeed in
your mission. Good luck. Our ways must part here.’
He lets you out of the room by a door that leads to
the street. You follow the road towards the central
square. Turn to 158.

315

The Wazarri Bastion is woefully undermanned. The
warriors look like they haven’t slept for weeks. You
are led toa very grand chamber that contains a great
throne. A bearded knight sits on the throne and you
notice that he is badly wounded in several places.
He does not speak but stares at you. On either side
of the throne there are two stone chairs and you
suddenly realize that he is waiting for you to sit on
one of them. You realize that it must be some sort of
test. Which chair do you sit on: the left (turn to 174)
or the night (turn to 389)?

316
You leave the village and follow a track that heads
north towards the mountains. You are at first sus-
picious of every clump of trees and bushes but after
several hours you are somewhat lax in your precau-
tions against ambushers or rogues. You stop for a
rest (add 4 points to your STAMINA) and then climb
a tall tree to spy out the Jand ahead. You see that the
most direct path goes into a forest (turn to 367) but
other paths lead off to a flat plain (turn to 137) and
towards a wide well-made road that could be Salik’s
Way, the great trade route north (tur to 172).
Which way do you choose?

317-318

317
You continue to follow the forest path. It gets
narrower and narrower until it descends into a dry
river channel that branches off into three tibu-
taries, also devoid of water. Which do you follow:

The left one? Turn to 126
The right one? Turn to 67
The centre one? Turn to 200

318
You run along the trench away from the Goblin
towards the two Irregulars. There is no room to pass
them, so you are forced to fight them in turn to get
past. One clutches a spiky mace, the other swings a
menacing ball and chain

SKILL STAMINA
FirstIRREGULAR 6 8
SecondIRREGULAR 7 8

If you survive, you leap up out of the trench as the
Goblin shouts commands for others to chase you.
Suddenly there is a shower of long-bow arrows
from the Citadel. There is no cover. Do you dodge to
the left (turn to 113) or run straight on (turn to 24)?

319

319

You walk along the gallery and enter the first door
you find. Inside, there are scattered papers and
bloodstains but there is no evidence of bodies. You
are about to leave when suddenly a trapdoor opens
in the floor. Out pops a grubby-looking Goblin,
saying, ‘No, master. No sign of it there.’ He gets
out, turns and sees you. He screams and pulls outa
sword.

GOBLIN SKILL6 STAMINA 6

If you win, you wonder who the ‘master’ is. You
find nothing but the same mess further along the
gallery so you return to check the other side. Turn to
87.

320-321

320
You realize that any rapid movement would make
you sink into the marsh so you stand still. Fight each
in turn.

SKILL STAMINA
First MARSH GOBLIN 6 6
second MARSH GOBLIN 6 6

If you survive, do you go to the chest (turn to 33) or
quickly try to find a way out of the marsh (turn to
292)?

324

The Inquisitor is pleased with herself. She holds the
Torch in her hand and drops some doughy balls on
the floor. ‘You will make me very rich once { get
Jaxartes to cough up for this little item. Eat these
You will recover enough to attend your execution.’
You eat the food; your will has been sapped but you
feel better (add 4 points to your STAMINA), You ate
placed in a small, dark, wooden box. You cannot he
down but soon you lose consciousness, Turn to 286.

322

322
You climb the tree. At the top you find a platform
and 4 Black Cubes. If you wish to take them, mark
them on your Adventure Sheet. You then notice a
tree-creeper tied to this side of the river and work
out that it should be possible to swing across the
river on it. You get across and land on another
platform. Climbing down, you find a path that goes
deeper into the thick forest. You stumble along in
the darkness for several hours until you suddenly
fall over something. You get up and come face to
face with a huge two-headed Serpent. The creature
opens and shuts its mouth to reveal long curved
fangs and then breathes out a tremendous shaft of
fire. The surrounding trees and bushes begin to
burn and a thick black smoke encircles you. Do you
run away from it (turn to 96) or stand and fight it
(turn to 298)?
« beh

323-324

323

You tell him, in all truth, that you don’t know. He
gets very angry at this and repeats, ‘I don’t know,’
in a high-pitched voice. He picks up a large wooden
club and strikes the ground close to you. You decide
that you must run or get crushed, but in which
direction? Towards the entrance to the cave (turn to
272) or into the dark depths (turn to 31)?

nd

£

hk

Justin time, you break clear and roll off the road into
some bushes. The chariot stops and you hear the
deep voice of the driver, ‘Where’s the body? |
thought J hit it.’ One of his companions replies, ‘1
cannot see it, your Majesty, but the Sniffer Orcs are
among, the mounted battalion following us.’

The figure mounts the chariot again. ‘Never mind,
time presses.’ He whips the horses and they gallop
off.

The idea of staying on the road does not seem to be
such a good one any more. You look to either side
and see a shallow stream on the left (turn to 62) and
a small path leading to a reedy plain on the right
(turn to 137}. Which way do you go?
325-326

325

Only one figure passes but it makes a terrific noise
on the rock, The noise then stops and you look up
and see a single warrior on guard. A path divides
into three and all three appear to lead into the
volcano. The guard is heavily armed but stands
very still. He eventually creaks into action. You
strike the first blow before he manages to parry, but
your sword clangs as though striking granite. The
warrior seems to have a stone skin. He advances
slowly and deliberately. You know that swordplay
is useless against this enemy, and that your only
hope is to topple him over. Throw two dice for the
weight of the Stone-Skin Warrior and compare this
fo your STAMINA, If your STAMINA is equal to or
greater than the weight, you crash your body
against his and he tips over and smashes into little
pieces. If it is not, deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA and try again. If you fail again, he strikes
you a deadly blow and you collapse. Your mission
ends here.

If you survive, you walk over the stone rubble and
decide which path to take: the left {turn to 383), the
right (turn to 92) or the centre (turn to 285)?

326
You climb up the crumbling steps, three at a time,
but you are still pursued by four Orcs, They shout
and scream as they clatter up. One of them releases
a message eagle. You decide to stand and fight them
in turn as they reach you on the narrow stairs.
327-328

SKILL STAMINA
First ORC 6 5
Second ORC 6 5
Third ORC 7 6
FourthORC 7 6

If you survive, you get to the top of the cliff. Turn to
36.

327

The creeper suddenly snaps. The Giant comes
hurtling down and crashes on to the rock floor. You
walk over to the massive inert body but just as you
are about to step over his arm, he grabs your foot
and begins to chortle, ‘Good game, Djakk. Play
again, good joke.’ He takes you back to the cave and
chains you up. He makes you play ‘games’ again
and again, until the Bracelet has stopped plowing.
You know then that the mission has failed. You dic
very soon after.

328

You hand over half your gold (deduct half your
Gold Coins from the Gold box on your Adventure
Sheet). The Captain whistles and calls someone from
behind you. ‘We always say, “Gold has a tendency
to stick in strange places”; this creature will help
you find the rest of it.’ A wolf-like beast appears, it
hasa long snoutand sharp fangs and begins to rip at
your side where you keep the rest of your gold. You
pull out your sword-and fight back.

SNOUT-WOLF SKILL 4 STAMINA 7

329-330

if you survive, the Captain stands up and, still
unable to get his boot on, limps off, He speaks to
you from over his shoulder. “You're in. Go and get
some food from the kitchen. Oh, and take the
creature for skinning. Tell them I want it roasted
tonight.” Turn to 218.

4
~
\

a

329
You turn to fight, pull out your sword, and swing at
the Genie. The sword passes through it but the
Genie throws a fireball that explodes in front of you
(deduct 2 points from your STAMINA). If you have
no Wand, turn to 30.

lf you have a Wand, you pull it out. lt produces a
long shaft of blue light that shimmers and buzzes.
Fight the Genie as in normal combat.

SCHIZOID GENIE

If you survive, you run off. Turn to 176,

SKILL6 STAMINA 10

7

so,

vt y
,

’ -
y

330
You walk inte the room and shut the door behind

you. It is large and may once have been a well-
stocked library. All the books and parchments that

.
331

remain are in a large pile mm the middle of the floor,
half-burnt. Your eye is caught by a plaque on the
wall. You read the message and, as you touch it, a
set of numbers appears below each letter:

THE OXEN LIE DOWN WITH
323 8143 466 7994 6661

THE WOLVES
524 246777

You hear a voice above you. ‘Speak the numbers of
the name-that-cannot-be-uttered.’ You look care-
fully. If you know the name and see it, read out the
numbers below the name and go to that paragraph.
You will be told at once if you are correct.

[f you do not know the name, you may guess s1x
times but when you utter the sixth wrong guess a
trapdoor opens under your feet and you crash intoa
chute: deduct 4 points from your STAMINA and
turn to 281.

331
You pull out your sword and enter cautiously, The
man welcomes you and shuts the door. He speaks
in a mad, disjointed way, but seems very know-
ledgeable on the subject of your mission. ‘Yes, they
seek you, the Wizards’ hope, the Torchbearer. They
say HE knows, HE knows everything. Now you
must be strong, eat, eat.” He produces a large bowl
and places it in front of you. There is nothing inside
but three black beans. To humour the man you pick
one up but it explodes in your face (deduct 2 points

332-333

from your STAMINA). A trail of smoke is produced
that winds itself around your body and binds you
firmly. The man begins to leap up and down. ‘I did
it, see, I did it. Now give me my Gems. Oh where
are my treasures?’ He is looking up at the roof of the
hut. Just then, two Orcs jump down and look at
you. “D’you think it’s him?’ one of them asks.

‘HE wants you back alive, come on.’ You can just
about hobble out of the hut. But the old man follows
screaming, ‘My Gems, where are my Gems?’ The
Orcs laugh and one of them pulls out a sword and
stabs the old man. He stares at you and with his
dying breath says one word, ‘Water’, then falls
down. Do you try to run for it (turn to 88) or bide
your time to find a better opportunity (tum to
205)?

332

You walk along the corridor and a large jar suddenly
appears in front of you. It is full of Black Cubes.
There is just enough room for one hand in the
opening. You choose to grab a handful. Throw two
dice for the number you pull out before the jar seals
itself again (add the Black Cubes to your Cube box
on the Adventure Skeet and add 1 point to your
SKILL). Turn to 231

333
You reach a stretch of beach that has obviously been

tampered with by the besieging army. Ahead, you
find some sprung traps. You peer into one and see

Cl
334-335

the remains of several Zamarran foot-soldiers. They
are ail impaled on sharp metal spikes. You suddenly
realize that there must be other traps here. You try
to retrace your steps but there are so many
footprints that you do not know which are yours.
Throw a die four times and mark the numbers in a
series on the Adventure Sheet. This is the random
position of the traps. Now throw a die four times to
indicate your progress across the sand. If any two
numbers in the sequence match up, you fall into a
trap (turn to 17). If you survive, you get away from
the danger area and eventually stop at a clump of
bushes (turn to 41).

334
You come face to face with a strange little creature,

seemingly a cross between a Dwarf and a man-Orc,
wearing, a spattered leather apron and cap. He is
holding a dirty shovel, He coughs and speaks,
‘Ahem, careful not to fall into this muck, the smell
lingers.’ You sniff him and agree with his state-
ment. “Are you lost?’ he squeaks at you, Turn

to 75.

335
The horse has a very fast and smooth gallop. You

were never a great rider (that’s why you joined the
infantry) and you begin to feel that you will not be
able to stop it. Ahead, a fallen tree looms up, but the
horse jumps over it very easily. Then you see a row
of tal] stakes pointing towards you, part of the
besieger’s anti-cavalry devices. The horse puts in a

336-337

tremendous jump and clears it easily but also man-
ages to unseat you.

Fest your Luck, If you are Untucky, throw a die. If
you throw 1—3, youare transfixed upon a stake. You
die instantly. If you throw 4-6, you are wounded
(deduct 1 point from your skIL1 and 4 points from
your STAMINA). If you are Lucky, you Jand well
(deduct 1 point from your sTAMINA),

If you survive, you get up and stand on a rock
looking out over the battlefield. Turn to 243.

336
You carry on and pass the dead monks. When you
have passed the last of the six, a small pedestal rises
out of the floor. It has a tray of 6 Black Cubes on the
top. A distant voice bids you take them, so you
comply (add them to your Cube box on the Adven-
ture Sheet). You carry on. Turn to 246.

337
You get close to the door and can hear coarse voices

singing. Carefully you open the door and peer into
the room. In the monastery kitchen you see two
Ores. They are sitting on a large table swaying from
side to side singing a ballad about what they do to
little furry creatures. Beside them, there is a large
pile of empty bottles. Just then, your soldier's in-
stinct tells you that someone is standing behind
you. Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 27, Hf
you are Unlucky, turn to 180.
eee te am

338-339

338

Your eye is distracted by the glow from the Bracelet
on your wnist (mark a captured Citadel Wall on the
Adventure Sheet). Then, surveying the scene, you
can see lots of activity: weapons, siege engines and
towers are being moved hither and thither, No one
takes much notice of you. All of a suddena squad of
long-nosed Orcs appears. You guess that they are
the legendary Sniffer Orcs. They are marching to-
wards you, You know that you must hide. There are
three tents in front of you with their own peculiar
insignia. Which do you choose to hide in:

The Skull with Horns? Turn to 22
The Clawed Hand? Turn to 384
The Vulture’s Wings? Turn to 223
| :
339

You peer into aj] three before making a decision, but
they are all equally dark and uninviting. Which do
you choose? Whichever you do choose, you will
jump in and land in a torchlit chamber. There will be
no sign of the hole from which you entered.

Hole 1 Turn to 76
Hole 2 Turn to 245
Hole 3 Turn to 135

ee |

340-341

340
The Wand begins to vibrate in your belt. You realize
the power that it must have. You pull it out and if
forms a blue blade of buzzing fire. The Fire Demon
attacks and you swing the Wand at it.

FIRE DEMON SKILL 7 STAMINA 8

If you survive, you hear the sound of manic laugh-
ter. The landlord tries to clear up the mess and
hands out a general warning, ‘Oh, he'll be here
soon, and cross with it, I don’t doubt,’ Turn to 225.

341

You decide to drop it and carry on. You then hear
grunting sounds from some bushes behind you and
decide to walk faster. The noise gets nearer so you
begin to run. Suddenly, you are brought to a halt by
a Wild Boar with huge tusks straddling your path.
You turn round to see another one behind you.
Fight each in turn

SKILL STAMINA
First WILD BOAR 5 12
Second WILD BOAR 4 14

If you survive, you hear more grunting behind you,
so you run off. Turn to 176

342-343

342
You are ina cave full of blocks of stone marked with
the symbol of a mushroom. Each block has the
number 50 engraved on the reverse. Just then the
Bracelet glows (mark a captured Citadel Wall on
the Adventure Sheet).

Each block weighs 10 Zamarra Weights. The max-
imum you can carry is 60 Zamarra Weights. If you
wish to take one of the blocks, mark the weight on
the Adventure Sheet. Do not exceed the maximum.

There are five exits. Do you choose:

Exit 1? Turn to 366

Exit 2? Turn to 204

Exit 3? Turn to 162

Exit 4? Turn to 40

Exit 5? Turn to 135
343

“You have endeavoured to find the True Path but
have narrowly failed. Fortune has not smiled upon
you today. Despair not. I will give you this.’ He
hands you a bag containing 6 Black Cubes (add
them to your Cube box).

‘Now go, and good luck.’ He bids you farewell and
opens a door on to the street. You head back to-
wards the centre of the village. Turn to 158.

344-345

344

You fit the Elf-wings. You leap off the clifftop and
glide down in a gentle sweeping flight. When you
Jand you see a bright Star Crystal lodged in the
ground by the pool. You pack the wings away,
marvelling at the Elven ingenuity in making them
fold away so small, and you pick up the Crystal

Add the Crystal to the Gem box of your Adventure
Sheet and turn to 219.

345
You hide when you hear the Orcs returning on their

horses. They are weighed down with all manner of
plunder. One of them rides at the little girl and
sweeps her up with one arm, then sits her on the
saddle behind him. The four horses begin to snort
and stamp as though they can smell something. Just
then another rider appears. This one is wearing a
black cloak and is riding a black steed. He rises from
the saddle and sniffs the air. ‘There is someone
close. Go find!’ he orders the others. The four Orcs
charge off in various directions. Unfortunately, one
of them finds you and attacks.

MOUNTED ORC SKILL8 STAMINAQ

If you survive, you run from cover to cover until you
think you are no longer pursued. Turn to 290.

™

te

346-347

346

The boat takes you to the north side of the island
and is then swept about by the crashing waves. You
have no hope of steering and realize that there are
sharp rocks just below the surface of the water.
Suddenly a wave lifts you up and hurls you into a
group of fang-like rocks, Test your Luck. Hf you are
Unlucky, the boat crashes against the rocks and you
are thrown into them (deduct 4 points from your
STAMINA). If you are Lucky, the boat just scrapes
over them in the swell but you are thrown into the
water.

Sopping wet, you swim to the shallows and land in
a sandy cove. Turn to 197.

347
You walk over to the tree. There, you see a reward

parchment with your face accurately drawn on it-
‘Preferably Alive by order of His Supreme Majesty,
Ostragoth the Grim.’ One of the other people study-
ing the poster glances at you, then looks at you
more closely and compares your face with the draw-
ing. Suddenly, he calls to the Ores that he’s claiming
the reward. The Orcs turn towards you, pulling out
their blades. Fight each in turn.

348-349

SKILL STAMINA
FirstORC 6 5
Second ORC 6 5
Third ORC 7 6

If you survive, you run off to the right and leave the
betrayer still screaming for the reward. You have
lost your sense of direction in all the commotion so,
as you pass a small boy playing with a kitten, you
ask for the quickest way out of the village. The boy
points to a wall and tells you to jump over it. Turn to
164.

348
You leap through the scorching flames unharmed.
Deduct 1 Black Cube from your Adventure Sheet.
After a good rest (add 2 points to your STAMINA),
you set off again. Turn to 121.

349
You are in a room full of phials set in the rock. They

are all the same. If you wish to open a phial, turn to
377.

350-351

Otherwise, there are three exits. Do you choose:

Exit 1? Turn to 233

Exit 2? Turn to 40

Exit 3? Turn to 55
350

You get through the flames without feeling any pain
(deduct 1 Black Cube from your Cube box on the
Adventure Sheet). Nothing is burnt or blackened by
the fierce blaze. You run away from the fire, sta ying
on the same path. Turn to 176.

351

You race up the spiral stairway. You hear snarling
as two wolves race after you. There seems to be no
place to hide, You turn to face them, They stop still
and look at you; then before your eyes they grow to
twice their size. You plunge your sword into the
leading wolf, but to no effect. Just as they are about
to pounce, they begin to whimper and cower away.
They then run off down the stairs-and are replaced
by the image of the Wizard Astragal. ‘EL have little
time to explain, but we have done all we can to
protect you. Our knights have mounted a foolhardy
attack to divert Jaxartes’ power, but I fear we have
lost a line of defence.’ The Bracelet glows as he
speaks (mark the loss of one Citadel Wall on the
Adventure Sheet). ‘Go to the top of the tower, and
wait for the signal. We will use our concerted power
to get you away." You run up the steps to the top of
the tower. Turn to 271.
352-354

352
You continue along the road. To your right, the
woods open out into a reedy plain. A smaller path
branches off towards the plain (turn to 137), Do you
choose to go this way? Or do you stay on the road
(turn io 121)?

353
The tunnel continues to slope, but the air, although

still musty and stale, has a salty smell, You feel
the crunch of sand and shells underfoot until, sud-
denly, you discover a wall of sand ahead of you and
nowhere else to go. You stab your sword into the
sand and it seems fairly easy te dig. Do you wish to
dig yourself out (turn to 199} or return and take the
left-hand tunnel (turn to 54)?

354
The young Dragonmen stare at you as you pick up

the 10 Multi-Coloured Gems (add them to your
Gem box on the Adventure Shect), But then they
begin to make a hideous wailing noise and, before
you have a chance to leave the cave, two fully-
grown Dragonmen appear and attack with their
thick claws. Fight each in turn

SKILL STAMINA
First DRAGONMAN 9 10
Second DRAGONMAN § 10

If you survive, you rush out of the cave. If you have
the value to pay the ransom, turn to 32. If not, then
you must continue (turn to 226).

355-356

355
You get off your horse and !et the first Orc take the

reins. He trots off with it. The second Orc then
swears at you. ‘Knucler scum, stealing our booty.
l’llteach you . . .’ He hits you witha whip across the
face then rides away. Your face is cut and stings
terribly. You suspect that the Orc has soaked the
whip in poison. Deduct 3 points from your
STAMINA.

You are left standing on a huge rock, overlooking
the smoky emptiness of the battlefield. Turn to 243

356

You come to a slight rise in the monotonous land-
scape and take the opportunity to survey the land
ahead. You see two distinct features in the shim-
mering heat-haze: ahead is a rocky outcrop with a
citadel-tike building perched on the top. Black
smoke is belching out from the building’s centre. To
the left, the land becomes desert-like; there are no
reeds or trees or bushes, just one thing is visible: a
tower on the horizon. Which way do you choose to
follow: towards the citadel {turn to 65) or towards
the tower (turn to 1417)?

357-358

357
You enter on the Sixth Level. You are in an intri-

cately carved corridor anda deep voice booms out at
you. “Your Way is one of success. Your heart 1s
True. Take your fill of more goodness.’ Suddenly,
you feel invigorated (restore your STAMINA to your
original score plus 2 points). You walk on, turn to

358

You scamper up the tree, then leap across three
other trees. You have heard tales of the legendary
Sniffer Orcs, so you do your best to hide your scent
Just then, six wolves appear and make for the tree
you originally climbed. They are silent and sit in a
circle around the thick trunk, until a squad of Orcs
arrives. The Orcs search the tree and when they find
no trace they scream at the dumb animals, ‘Stupid
beasts, you'll be tonight’s hot-pot if you don’t do
better than this.’ They do not see you, hugging a
thick branch just four trees away, When they leave,
you climb to the very top of the tree and spy out the
land. The sandy coast is very close. Do you make
your way to the beach (turn to 197) or carefully head
back to the small port (turn to 267)?

359

359
The riders are dressed in black, military capes. They

are from a regular cavalry regiment in Ostragoth’s

‘army, They trot in circles around you. You cannot

run off without raising suspicion. They look at you;
then at the man, then they consult a rolled-up
parchment. One of them dismounts and walks over
to you, “You, you're under arrest!” You pull out your
sword,

BLACK RIDER SKILL7 STAMINA8

if you win, the other two Jeap down and charge
towards you. Suddenly Peg-Leg speaks to them, ‘I
don't think it’s the one we are looking for. Let's go,’
Both riders repeat the statement, pick up their
stricken comrade and mount their horses. Turn to
204.

360-361

360

You follow the tunnel and come to a pile of dead
bodies: Goblins, Orcs lie scattered all around. It
looks like the aftermath of a great battle. Under the
thickest pile of bodies are just two Wazarri Knights.
To one side is a row of broken weapons. You notice
something inside an empty scabbard and, when
you lift it out, discover a Wand. If you already have
one, you take it anyway. Mark the Wand on the
Adventure Sheet.

The tunnel ends at a newly dug hole that seems to
drop into a lower tunnel. Do you jump down into
this tunnel (turn to 246) or do you choose to return
and take the left-hand tunnel encountered earlier
(turn to 142)?

361
You decide to head for the difficult ground. It’s very
hard going and you have to climb steep rock-faces
but you think it might be safer. Suddenly, on the
edge of a deep chasm, a flat rock flips over. Test your
Luck. If you are Unlucky, you fall into the chasm
(deduct 4 points from your STAMINA). Turn to 81.

If you are Lucky, you jump clear across the chasm to
safety. Turn to 195

362

362
You have exhausted your supply of torches. In the
dark, you kick something and pick it up. It feels like
a Star Crystal (add it to your Adventure Sheet). Just
then, flames begin to blaze high above you and then
sweep down as fire-breathing Bats begin to attack.

Throw three dice for the number that attack. Then
throw one die and add it to your STAMINA for the
number that can be warded off. If the first number is
the greater, then you deduct the difference from
your STAMINA.

You run away quickly and trip over the headless
bodies of two Goblins. They lie half in, half out of a
smali, newly dug tunnel. The Bats are flocking in
great numbers. You have no option but to get into
the tunnel. You crawl along for a while, then sud-
denly drop into a torchlit room. Turn to 259.

ae

363-365

363
The man places the crystal ball on the table. You
move to hand over the coin. ‘Put your money
away,’ he whispers, ‘and look closely.’ The crystal
shows an image of three knights on a grassy hillock
holding broadsword and shield in various posi-
tions, You look back to the old man. ‘Seek the three
Wazarni Novices. They will guide you to your goal,
for there are, e’en now, many dangers.’ He looks at
the group in the corner. ‘Your face has been posted,
Rogue Catchers are interested in you. Beware! Head
for the Forest, pass the domain of the Kragaar (the
snake people) to Sikla’s Barrow where the Wazarri
await. Now leave quickly!’ You get up to go but one
of the three in the corner also gets up and follows
you. Do you run away and duck down the nearest
alley (turn to 2) or walk away casually (turn to 167)?

364

You climb down. (if you have Elf-wings, you have
found that they have now disintegrated and are
therefore useless.) Deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA. Youcome toa strange cavern. In front of
you sit six dead monks, each smiling, each with 1
Black Cube on a pedestal in front of him. Do you
take any of the cubes (turn to 42) or carry on without
touching anything (turn to 336)?

365
You know that speed is of the essence, so you
choose to risk the road. The road is deserted. After
several hour’s march, you see a roofed watering-

366

well ahead. Leaning against the rock structure is a
withered figure dressed in rags. You get closer and
discover that it is a very old woman. She is crying,
She turns towards you, not surprised that you are
there, and tells you that she has dropped her mas-
ter’s valuable fiddle into the well. She pleads with
you to help her recover it, for she will be beaten if
the loss is not made good. Do you agree to help and
climb down the well (turn to 130) or refuse any
assistance and carry on walking (turn to 112)?

366
You are ina cave full of blocks of stone marked with
a circle. On the reverse of each is carved the number

27.

Each block weighs 10 Zamarra Weights. The max-
imum you can carry is 60 Zamarra Weights. If you
wish to take one of the blocks, mark the weight on
the Adventure Sheet. Do not exceed the maximum.

There are four exits. Do you choose:

Exit 1? Turn to 76

Exit 2? Turn to 201
Exit 3? Turn to 342
Exit 4? Turn to 135

367-370

367
The track takes you into the forest. You proceed
carefully. Eventually, you find that the path forks
and on a tree stump is carved a figure holding a
shield pointing west and a dagger pointing south-
east. Do you have any clue to the correct path to
take? Left (turn to 16) or right (turn to 216)?

368
You slowly examine the rock for footholds and

handholds to help you up. The climbing is very
difficult.

Throw two dice three times. If you do not throw a
double, deduct 2 points from your STAMINA and
repeat until you do.

Haif-way up, you come to a cave, Do you stop to
rest in the cave (turn to 44) or press on (turn
to 261)?

369

You raise your sword and the axe strikes the blade.
You feel a strange pain deep inside your chest
(deduct 3 points from your sTAMINA). The monk
speaks again. ‘Ah, there is no Trust, and with no
Trust there is no Truth, for that is the Way. Will you
refuse a second time?’ This time you fee! you must
trust the strange monk. Turn to 28.

370
The man hobbles to a stone bench by a fountain.
You stand in the middle of a small village square. He

371-372

smiles a gap-toothed smile, wipes the back of his
head with a grubby handkerchief and speaks in a
coarse voice. ‘Aye, it is not Power J seek, merely
Gold Coins. [hold your “object” for ransom and the
price to pay foritsreturmis. . . 500 Gold Coins!’ You
are staggered by the amount and remain speechless
when three riders trot past and then stop and stare
at you. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 204.
If you are Unlucky turn to 359.

371

You are intrigued by the horseman, for the horse
looks familiar. You know you've seen it somewhere
in the Zamarran stable-blocks. You suspect that this
is the traitor Astragal warned you about. You stride
along a rocky ridge tracking the rider. In the thick
mist you can just see that the siege barriers have
been opened up to let the riders pass. No one
challenges him. You decide to unmask the traitor.
You leap off the rock and manage to knock him to
the ground but he gets up and holds his hand out. A
thin wisp of smoke wraps itself around your neck,
restraining you. He does not pay you very much
attention and gets back on his horse and rides off.
You collapse on the ground, but after a while you
suddenly find you are free of the magic. Looking
up, you see the siege barriers now replaced and well
guarded. Turn to 12.

372
You are unharmed by the intense heat as you run
through the blaze. Pausing to look behind you, you

373-375

see the Serpent makes short work of the Garks. It is
not long before they are devoured whole. Deduct 1
Black Cube from the Adventure Sheet. Turn to 133.

373
You attach the Elf-wings and glide down the cliff-
face with consummate ease. The Dragonmen lose
you among the rocks (add 1 point to your LUCK).
Turn to 220.

374
You pick up the middle bottle and open it. A wispy,
sweet-smelling gas seeps out and you breathe it in.
You feel very good. The monks smile. Add 2 points
to your SKILL, 6 points to your STAMINA, and 2
points to your LUCK score. Turn to 9.

375
The tunnel leads to a chamber full of books. Many

have been ripped apart and burnt. On the floor lie
two bodies of Mage Warriors. Just then, a scrap of
burning parchment wafts towards you. Do you grab
at it (turn to 235) or let it flutter past you and
continue into another tunnel (turn to 381)?

'
De

’ :
“

MENT PLN,

376-378

376
You move ai a good pace along the road. After an
hour or so you hear screaming and Orcs shouting.
You stop to peer over a slight rise towards a small
river. You see the aftermath of an Orc attack on a
cart. The cart is broken and three bodies lie dead on
the road. To one side is a small girl. She is sitting on
a rock, crying. You can hear the Ores riding back
towards her, intent on more devilry. Do you rush
down to the cart to save the girl (turn to 163) or do
you stay out of sight and out of trouble (turn to 345)?

377

You open the phial very carefully. A dense black
smoke bursts forth and wraps itself around your
throat. There is the sound of maniacal laughter,
then a voice screams, ‘Thank you, so kind of you to
unleash the Evi! doomed to an eternity of imprison-
ment. Now, you will be my very first victim .. .’
You cannot move as you are slowly strangled by the
mist. Your mission ends here.

378
In Zamarra, you've heard stories about the

Bonecrusher Battalions so you decide to use that
name. The Goblin immediately pulls out a sword
and holds it to your throat. ‘The Bonecrushers have
not landed yet, Coney!’ He cails out to one of the
soldiers, ‘Get the list. I think we have another spy.’
The Goblin marches you to a deep earth dug-out as
another Goblin arrives clutching a large battered
book. He looks at you, then flicks through the
379

pages. The book seems to contain information
about King Elidor’s knights, squires and nobles.
The Goblin shuts the book, disappointed. ‘Nobody
important, no ransom, kill him.’ Do you shout out
that what you meant to say was that you want to
join the Bonecrushers (turn to 250) or ‘admit’ that
you've deserted from the Citadel garrison (turn to
151)?

379
The tunnel leads to a small chamber. On the floor

lies a black shape. You look carefully and notice that
it wears the insignia of Jaxartes’ Mage Warriors.
Suddenly, you look up to see a splinter of rock break
from the roof and drop down. Test your Luck. If you
are Lucky, it misses you. You see other splinters
hanging from the roof so you run back and take the
other tunnel (turn to 246). If you are Unlucky, you
are struck and killed. Your mission ends here.

J s /
4 - ‘
tea

- w
a
*

é

7

380-381

You run down the stairs and through an open metal
door. You slam it shut behind you, but as you tum
round the Wolves are in front of you, ready to
attack. Fight each in turn

SKILL STAMINA
First WOLF 7 6
Second WOLF 8 8

If you survive, the bodies disappear and you hear
Jaxartes’ evil voice: ‘You cannot kill my friends so
easily. They will soon return. Your Knights and
Wizards are keeping me busy, but soon! will be free
to...” You turn around and look at the torchlit
corridor. There are two metal doors. Do you enter
the left-hand one (turn to 69), the one on the right
(turn to 202) or head back up the stairway (turn to

351)?

381
The tunnel leads you through a vast ornate entrance
to the core of the Fangs of Fury: the Furnace. But the
Flame does not bum. It has been extinguished!
Jaxartes stands between two giant statues of

382

wattiors and screams out to you. ‘You see, O
mighty warrior, I have put out your precious Flame.
You cannot rescue the Wizards and / will rule the
world. Now the game-playing is over, I will kill
you.” Just then, he changes size and stands almost
as tall as the huge statues, He begins to hurl sheets
of flame at you. Suddenly, a large cube rises in front
of you and an ancient voice calls out, ‘The Key, the
Key,’ This is what you see on the cube:

0123456789
Om ORemecemenenenenene)
1Teo0o0oco0o0o0000
zoo00o0o0o00cCcn00
30000000000
409000000000

There are 50 locks on the cube (00-49). If you havea
key, or a lock-pick, you may know which is the
correct lock to try, If not, you must either try the key
in all the locks or smash them with your sword at
random. (Shade in the ones you try in pencil.) If you
know the correct lock to try, go to that paragraph
where you will be told at once if you are right. If
not, then try again. Meanwhile, Jaxartes is hurling
sheets of flame at you, For each incorrect lock you
must either deduct 1 Black Cube or 4 points from
your STAMINA.

382
You attack the Goblin.

GOBLIN EXECUTIONER skILL 5 STAMINA 5

383-384

If you survive, you turn around to find the four Orcs
dead. The warrior has dealt with them with amaz-
ing speed and skill, She then waves you on into a
tent. Here you find another dead body and an open
chest containing all your possessions including the
Torch. You take back everything and conceal the
Torch again. Turn to 203.

383
The entrance is very smoky. You stumble in but
cannot even see your sword in front of your face.
You try to feel your way along and a black figure
mysteriously passes you going in the other direc-
tion. Then you see an inscription on a piece of wood
on the wall:

LEEK PRLAA

Ahead the smoke begins to dissipate and you see
that the tunnel divides. Which way do you go: left
(turn to 274) or right (turn to 222)?

384
You sidle into the tent as the patrol marches past.
Suddenly, someone slaps you on the shoulder.
‘Hey, come on! He wants it now.’ You turn to see
two squires cleaning battle armour. ‘He wants to get
out to Salik’s Way by tomorrow . .. Hey, what
cohort and phalanx are you?’ You mutter something
about the Irregulars. The two squires pull out their

385-386

shortswords. ‘There are no Irregs this side of the
camp. You're a spy.’ They both attack. Fight each in
turn.

SKILL STAMINA
First SQUIRE 5 6
Second SQUIRE 5 8

If you win, you quickly put on the armour. Tum to
154.

385
The rock does not fall until the figures have moved
away. You jump up just before it crashes down the
slope. When all seems safe you survey the moun-
tain landscape. Turn to 36.

386

You stumble off with the others. Your companions
are a motley bunch: men and women wearing all
types of armour with no particular insignia, They
appear to be rather reluctant conscripts. They do
not speak but shuffle up to the hase of an old tower
and form a line. Eventually, a Dark Elf appears on
horseback, ahead of a platoon of Goblins. They are
taking a group of prisoners to the camp on Karakum
island just off the coast. You look at the prisaners,
You recognize one or two and then it occurs to you
that they might recognize you. fust then, one of the
Prisoners calls out your name as he passes you. Do
you whisper for him to shut up (tum to 252) or hit
him in the face with your fist (turn to 93)?

387-388

You carry on along the tunnel. You come to a series
of long gaps. Peering into one of them, you see a
blazing fury below with Goblin remains mixed in.
You must leap across three such gaps.

Throw two dice for the distance and then compare
this with your STAMINA. If your STAMINA is
greater than or equal to the distance then you have
jumped well. Deduct 2 points from your STAMINA
and repeat twice more. If you fail on any one jump,
you fall into the fire and your mission ends here. If
you succeed, turn to 231.

388

You stab the Giant in the arm. He screams and
drops you in the water, then you hear his voice,
‘Little Stinger, eh?’ You try to swim away, but he
grabs you then holds you under the water until you
half drown. Deduct 1 point from your SKILL and 2
points from your srAMINA. He then lifts you out
and checks that you are still alive. Tum to 50.
WY >!

‘
iw)
) wk

i
ee
“_
—_-
Ee
— al
So
ee
—_

\
)

“A :

ut
i}
1%

x 1
\ j \ _\se

AV AN \ VAN
‘a4
, \ \ : ' \ \ |

y \ \

389-390

389

The Wazarri Knight smiles and is obviously pleased
with you. He motions to the squire who brings over
a map and places it on the table in front of you,
weighing it down with a bottle. Then he nods to the
squire who speaks. ‘These are the Homrath Caves.
You have fulfilled the Prophecy of Tei-Okin and
have earned the right to view the sacred parchment.
Study it well, for there lies the True Path to the
Fangs of Fury.’ He then stands up and after another
nod from the Wazarri recites:

Find the Key and

Heed the Warnings

Carry the Blocks and

Place them correctly.

The door to Fury will then open.

The audience ends there and you are taken to
another room where you are fed and rested (add
1 point to your SKILL and 6 points to your
STAMINA). The squire eventually comes to escort
you away from the bastion but issues a dire warn-
ing. ‘Beware, there are few friends now in the lands
ahead. Jaxartes has been busy.’ The same girl who
led you in through the flames then leads you out.
She points to a distant flat-topped mountain. You
thank her and make off quickly (turn to 194}.

390
You know that this must be the Dragonmen’s trea-
sure room. You think that you can crawl along the
dimly lit edges of the cavern. The creatures now
391

seem to be grunting some sort of song. You crawl on
your hands and knees towards the key on the hook.
Test your Luck. If you are Unlucky, turn to 89. If you
are Lucky, turn to 241.

392

S00n you are dragged into the Inquisition Chamber
and have to face the Inquisitor again. She waves a
smoking taper at you. “This will cost me dear if it
does not produce resuits. Jaxartes does not dis-
pense magical substances willingly.’ The smoke fills
the room and you have visions of hideous acts of
torture done to your body: your arms and legs
ripped apart, your heart snatched from your chest.
You scream that you will tell all. Reduce your s KILL
by 2 points and your STAMINA by 6 points. Turn to
324.

392-393

392

You decide to head for the plain. You eventually
pick up a track and follow it for several hours. At
one point you notice the Bracelet glowing (mark a
captured Citadel Wall on your Aaventure Sheet). The
track leads you to the outskirts ofa village. You walk
into the central market square and find yourself ina
busy, bustling place. Looking around, you see two
laverns on opposite corners of the square. Which do
you choose fora rest and a drink: the Ferret's Claws
(turn to 169) or the Gannet’s Nest (turn to 122)?

393
You walk along the empty tunnel. Suddenly, some-

one drops on to your back and knocks you over.
Quickly you jump to your feet and come face to face
with the Evi] Wizard. He has a bright gleam in his
black eyes. ‘Cannot you see that I am toying with
you? I have extinguished the Flame. Your Torch is
now useless. There is nothing to light it with.’ You
begin to have doubts in your mind and your sense
of purpose begins to waver. But, just in time, you
hear a weak but distinct voice in your mind. ‘Brave
questor, do not give up. There is always a True Path
to follow.” You are spurred on by this and decide to
attack the Wizard.
394

JAXARTES SKILLQ STAMINA 12

If you survive, the Wizard gets up and disappears,
laughing at you all the while. You look around and
see another fork in the tunnel. Which path do you
choose to follow: the left (turn to 375) or the right
(turn to 34)?

394
You stand in a ramshackle line unti] an Orc and two

Goblins appear and scream an order that you can’t
understand. The others turn left and march up a
small hill towards a compound, You stop outside
and wait until twenty prisoners are brought out.
They are issued with axes and then you escort them
into a partly cleared forest. The prisoners are made
up of all manner of folk: Elves, men, women, chil-
dren, Dwarfs, Just as you teach the tree-line, one of
the Dwarfs closest to you dashes off into the woods.
The nearest Goblin gives chase and calls you to
follow. You dash after him and find that he has
easily caught the emaciated Dwarf. He is about to
chop his head off. Do you stay his hand (turn to 139)
or let him perform this grisly act to preserve your
cover (turn to 215)?

395-396

395
You are in a chamber containing blocks of stone

inscribed with a Cross. On the reverse of each is the
number 3g. Just then, the Bracelet glows (mark a
captured Citadel Wall on the Adventure Sheet).

Each block weighs 10 Zamarra Weights. The max-
imum you can carry is 60 Zamarra Weights. If you
wish to take one of the blocks, mark the weight on
the Adventure Sheet. Do not exceed the maximum.

There are four exits. Do you choose:

Exit 1? Turn to 107
Exit 2? Turn to 76

Exit 3? Turn to 135
Exit 4? Turn to 245

396
You enter on the Seventh Level. You are in an
intricately carved corridor. A voice booms out, “You

397

have found the True Way. All the power of the
Wazarri and the name-that-cannot-be-uttered shall
be yours.’ The corridor is then flooded with Green,
Red and Blue lights and you feel great (restore
SKILL and STAMINA to original values, and Luck
to onginal value plus 1 point). A jar of Black Cubes
appears in front of you and you have time to take a
handful. Throw two dice for the number you man-
age to grab and mark the amount in the Cube box of
the Adventure Sheet

Suddenly, three Mage Warriors spring out at you,
The one in front calls out, “Aye, Jaxartes was right!’
They attack with buzzing Wand-swords. If you
have a Wand, fight as normal. If not, then reduce
your SKILL by 2 for this combat only. Fight each in
turn.

SKILL STAMINA

First MAGE WARRIOR 9 10
Second MAGE WARRIOR 8 10
Third MAGE WARRIOR 8 11

If you survive, turn to 231.

397
You reach your hand inside the chest as you feel

something stirnng beneath you. There is a creaking,
rumbling sound. Nevertheless, you are determined
to get the Gems. Throw a die for the number of
Gems you manage to grab and then throw for the
type of Gems they are: 1-2 for Brown; 3-4 for
Yellow; 5—6 for Blue.

398

Suddenly a large tubular creature bursts out of the
ground. You find yourself surrounded by it. It is
yellow, covered with thick blue veins and, from the
rim, it exudes a thick green slime that drops down
on to you. A tiny drop touches your little finger and
you watch in agony as it strips the flesh away in
seconds (deduct 2 points from your stAMINA). Do
you try to hack your way through the thin body
(turn to 35) or try to bury as much of yourself as you
can in the sand (turn to 265)?

You leave the village in some haste. You decide to
stay off the normal tracks and, looking around, see a
vast expanse of forest just ahead of you. You reach
the woods and follow what you guess to be a goat-
track. The track eventually meets another track that
is marked with hoofprints. It looks as though three
horses have passed. You follow the track until it
forks. You stand there undecided, then notice,
carved on a tree between the two paths, a crudely
inscribed figure of a warrior holding a shield point-
ing west and a dagger pointing south-east. The
hoofprints go to the right. Which way do you go: left
(turn to 16) or right (turn to 216)?

399

399
You enter the trading-post. It is full of strange,
exotic goods. A Dwarf is keeping busy but is all the
while being reproached by a hunchback who seems
to be the owner. You look at a large counter with
labels explaining the Gem and Crystal to Gold Coin
exchange rate.

Work out the value of what you possess and get
an idea of how much of what item you may need to
make up the shortfall.

You leave the village and set off in the direction Peg-
Leg points out to you for the Dragonlands. You see
nothing in the bleak waste but occasional tall pillars
of rock with steps winding around them to the top.
Eventually, the path leads you into a great opening
in the ground. It is very dark inside, so you get some
brushwood together and make several torches. You
light one torch and walk into the cave. At once, you
spy 2 Brown Gems. You pick these up (add them to
your list) and then carry on until you come to two
caves. Which cave do you enter: the one on the left
(turn to 100) or the one on the right (turn to 140)?

400

400
You have succeded in your mission. You look at the
Bracelet around your wrist. It takes on a golden hue
and then drops off. You wonder at it as it suddenly
becomes studded with extremely valuable jewels
and stones.

Eventually, after you are well rested, you make the
return journey to Zamarra on a white charger, a gift
from the Wazarri. You are shocked at the devasta-
tion caused by the Sentinels. You look up to see the
Six perched on their habitual walls with wisps of
smoke wafting from their nostrils and blood spat-
tered all over their huge bodies.

You are greeted by the Wizards and congratulated
by King Elidor. He takes you to the throne room and
bids you kneel. He promotes you to Commander-
in-Chief of all the Zamarran forces. Your mind isina
whirl and when you eventually leave the King’s
Chamber you bump into Captain Laski. Your in-
stinctive reachon is to flinch and prepare for a tirade
of abuse, but he apologizes, salutes and stands to
attention. You return the salute and walk down the
corridor with a broad smile on your face,

