‘FIGHTING FANTASY BOOK!

- Over 13 million copies sold worldwidy

The Demon Lord Myurrseeks revenge!

YOU are renowned throughout the land ef a
Demon-Stalker, waging war against th
creatures of Chaos, More than ance you hav:
thwarted the Demon Lord’s evil schemes,
but now Myurr has discovered a cunning)
way of exacting his revenge. There is n
alternative, YOU must confront and destro
the Demon Lord, for the whole of the free
world is threatened! Myur’s evil power
may soon enable him and hordes of his vile
demons to cross from the Demonic into the
Earthly Plane!

Two dicé, a pencil and an eraser are al
you need. YOU decide which aye te
take, which dangers to risk and w ich foe

to tight!

| Corurilingration by Tecey Chas

RNS

-
a,

WICN'S
7

N t¢

iY

(i ayilte

~

IAT

~ 7;

3
erp ye
Vid AS L

ona =4 el reoee wees
- <>< 1 =

ny aL

re
=!

VINGST ONE >

PRESENT

’ FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS

Over 13 million copies sold worldwide!

se*J ACKSON AND
, J“LIVINGST ONE

PR ESENT

The Demon Lord Myurr seeks revenge!

YOU are renowned throughout the land asa
Demon-Stalker, waging war against the
creatures of Chaos. More than once you have i
thwarted the Demon Lord's evil schemes, |
but now Myurr has discovered a cunning |
way of exacting his revenge. There is no

alternative. YOU must confront and destroy |

the Demon Lord, for the whole of the free

world is threatened! Myurt’s evil powers

may soon enable him and hardes of his vile

demons to crass from the Demonic into the
Earthly Plane!

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all

you need. YOU decide which paths to

take, which dangers to risk and which toes
to fight!

Cover Ticttrationr by Ferry Oakes

als

(™

Puffin Books
DEAD OF NIGHT

YOU are renowned throughout the jand as a Demon-Stalker,
waging war against the creatures of Chaos, But your arch-foe
Myurr has discovered a cunning and evil way of striking at you
through those whom you love best — your parents. Your worst
fears are realized as a vision of Myurr and your parents appears
in the flickering shadows of a candle

You have no choice. You must confront and destroy the Demon
Lord, for not only are your parents in danger, but the whole of
the free world is threatened. Myurr’s evil powers may soon
enable him and hordes of his vile demons to cross from the
Demonic into the Earthly Plane!

Twa dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you need to embark on
this thrilling adventure, which is complete with its elaborate
combat system and a score sheet to record your gains and
losses.

Many dangers lie ahead and success is by no means certain, It’s
up to YOU to decide which routes to follow, which dangers to
tisk and which adversaries to fight!

Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks

1 THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP
MOUNTAIN
2 THE CITADEL OF CHAOS
3 THE FOREST OF DOOM
4, STARSHIP TRAVELLER
5 CITY OF THIEVES
6. DEATHFRAP DUNGEON
7_ ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING
8, SCORPION SWAMP
9, CAVERNS OF THE SNOW WITCH
10 HOUSE OF HELL
11 TALISMAN OF DEATH
12 SPACE ASSASSIN
13 FREEWAY FIGHTER
14 TEMPLE OF TERROR
15 THE RINGS OF KETHER
16 SEAS OF BLOOD
17 APPOINTMENT WITHE.E A.R
18 REBEL PLANET
19 DEMONS OF THE DEEP
20 SWORD OF THE SAMURAI
21 TRIAL OF CHAMPIONS
22, ROBOT COMMANDO
23. MASKS OF MAYHEM
24 CREATURE OF HAVOC
25 BENEATH NIGHTMARE CASTLE
26 CRYPT OF THE SORCERER
27 STAR STRIDER

Steve Jackson's SORCERY!
1 THESHAMUTANTI HILLS
2 KHARE - CITYPORT OF TRAPS

28. PHANTOMS OF FEAR

29 MIDNIGHT ROGUE

3) CHASMS OF MALICE

3] BATTLEBLADE WARRIOR

32 SLAVES OF THE ABYSS

33 SKY LORD

34 STEALER OF SOULS

35. DAGGERS OF DARKNESS

36 ARMIES OF DEATH

37 PORTAL OF EVIL

a VAULT OF THE VAMPIRE

39 FANGS OF FURY

40 DEAD OF NIGHT

41 MASTER OF CHAOS

42 BLACK VEIN PROPHECY

43 THE KEEP OF THE LICH-LORD

44 LEGEND OF THE SHADOW
WARRIORS

45 SPECTRAL STALKERS

46 TOWER OF DESTRUCTION

47. THE CRIMSON TIDE

48 MOONRUNNER

49 SIEGE OF SARDATH

50. RETURN TO FIRETOP MOUNTAIN

51, PLAGUE OF THE UNDEAD

3. THE SEVEN SERPENTS
4 THE CROWN OF KINGS

THE TROLLTOOTH WARS - A Fighting Fantasy Novel

DEMONSTEALER — A Fighting Fantasy Novel

The Advanced Fighting Fantasy System

OUT OF THE PIT: Fighting Fantasy Monsters

TITAN: The Fighting Fantasy World

DUNGEONEER - An Introduction to the World of Role-Playing Games
BLACKSAND! Advanced Fighting Fantasy

Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone
present

Me VP ee

wa vt '
i - ~ 2

Jim Bambra and Stephen Hand.

Hlustrated by Martin McKenna

Puffin Books

PUFFIN BOOKS

Published by the Penguin Group
Penguin Books Lid, 27 Wrights Lane, London W8 5TZ, England
Penguin Books USA Inc , 375 Hudson Street, New York, New York 10014, USA
Penguin Books Australia Ltd, Ringwood, Vicioria, Austrelia
Penguin Books Canada Lid, 10 Alcorn Avenue, Toronio, Onlario, Canada M4¥ 3B2
Penguin Books (NZ) Lid, 182-190 Wairau Road, Auckland 10, New Zealand

Penguin Books Ltd, Registered Offices: Harmondsworth, Middlesex, Engtand

First published 1989
791086

Concept copyright © Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone, 1989
Text copyright © Jim Bambra and Stephen Hand, 1989
Tilustrations copynght ©} Martin McKenna, 1989
Map copyrighi © Leo Hartas, 1989
AJl rights reserved

Pnnted in England by Clays Lid, St Ives ple
Filmset in 11/13pc Linotron Palatino

Except in the United States af America, this boak is sold subject
Lo the condition thac it shall noi, by way of Lrade or otherwise, be leat,
re-sold, hired out, or otherwise circulated without ihe publisher’s
prior consent in any form of binding or cover other than that in
which it is published and without a similar condition including this
condition being imposed on the subsequent purchaser

To Mandy and Pat
CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION

9

ADVENTURE SHEET
77)

BACKGROUND
24

DEAD OF NIGHT
28

Me On].

“CRA INTRODUCTION

For most of your life you have lived in the Sacred
Citadel of the Templars, an order of Warrior-Priests
and Priestesses, in Royal Lendle. You have devoted
more time than most to the scholarly and mystical
aspects of your order— though you are equally well
trained in the use of the sword and in other fighting
skills. Because of your all-round ability and dedica-
tion, you have risen swiftly through the ranks until
now you are highly respected. Furthermore, you
are renowned throughout almost the entire conti-
nent as a Demon-Stalker!

Using mysterious means, you have seen the danger
that the creatures of Chaos pose for the future of the
free world; you have made it your personal quest
to stop them wherever they might be found. Over
the years you have made a number of terrifyingly
powerful enemies and now, angered by your many
successes against them, they seek revenge. . .

- a .
:
Dae had ‘5 ad oO
: : ee 6 %,
a = Ped ‘ 7
, = a ‘i

Before embarking on your most perilous adventure
to date (and possibly your last!), you must establish
your own strengths and weaknesses; use the Adven-
ture Sheet on pages 22-23 to record your attribute
scores, as well as any other details of your adven-
ture. It would be sensible to make copies of the
Adventure Sheet for further sorties into this adven-
ture. As well as a photocopy of the Adventure Sheet,
you will need two dice, a pencil and an eraser.

a
=
=.

Skill, Stamina, Luck and Evil

Roll one die. Add 6 to the number roiled and enter
the total in the SKILL box on the Adventure Sheet.

Roll two dice. Add 12 to the number rolled and enter
the total in the STAMINA box.

Roll one die, add 6 and enter the total in the Luck
box.

Don’t roll any dice for EVIL: you always start the
game with zero EVIL points. (This is already shown
on the Adventure Sheet.)

All your scores will change during your adventure —
for reasons that will be explained below. You must
keep an accurate record of these scores, and for this
reason you are advised to write small in the boxes or
to keep an eraser handy. But never rub out your
Initial scores. As in other Fighting Fantasy Game-
books, although you may be awarded additional
SKILL, STAMINA and LUCK points, the totals of
these may never exceed your Initial scores, except
on those very rare occasions when the text specifi-
cally tells you so.

In this adventure, EviL differs from your other
scores in that it only increases and so will inevitably
exceed its Initial level of 0.

Your SKILL score reflects your expertise in combat
and other challenging situations. Your STAMINA
score reflects how healthy or physically fit you are.
Your LUCK score indicates how lucky you are. In

10

all these cases, the higher the score, the better!
However, you should try to keep your EvIL score as
low as possible. This score shows how evil you are
and how likely you are to succumb to the powers of
darkness.

Battles

During your adventure you will often encounter
hostile creatures which will attack you, and you
yourself may choose to draw your sword against an
enemy you chance across. In some such situations
you may be given special options allowing you to
deal with the encounter in an unusual manner, but
In most cases you will have to resolve battles as
described below.

Enter your opponent's SKILL and STAMINA Scores
in the first vacant Encounter Box on your Adrenture
sheet. You should also make a note of any special
abilities or instructions which are unique to that
particular opponent. Then follow this sequence:

1. Roll both dice for your opponent. Add its sKILL
score to the total rolled, to find its Attack
Strength.

2. Roll both dice for yourself, then add your cur-

rent SKILL score to find your Attack Strength.

If your Attack Strength is higher than your

opponent's, you have wounded it: proceed to

step 4. If your opponent’s Attack Strength is
higher than yours, it has wounded you: pro-
ceed to step 5. If both Attack Strength totals are

hud

11
the same, you have avoided or parried each
other’s blows: start a new Attack Round from
step 1 above.

4. You have wounded your opponent, so subtract
2 points from its STAMINA score. You may use
LUCk here to do additional damage (see below).

5. Your opponent has wounded you, so subtract 2
points from your own STAMINA. You may use
LUCK to reduce the loss of STAMINA (see be-
low).

6. Begin the next Attack Round, starting again
at step 1. This sequence continues until the
STAMINA Score of either you or your opponent
reaches zero, which means death. If your oppo-
nent dies, you are free to continue with your
adventure. If you die, your adventure ends and
you must start all over again by creating a new
character.

Fighting More Than One Opponent
In some situations you may find yourself facing
more than one enemy. Sometimes you will treat
them as a single opponent; sometimes you will fight
each in turn; and sometimes you will have to fight
them all at the same time! If they are treated as a
single opponent, the combat is resolved normally.
When you are instructed to fight your opponents
one at a time, the combat is again resolved normally
— except that, once you defeat a creature, the next
steps in to fight you! When you find yourself under
attack from more than one opponent at the same
time, each adversary will make a separate attack on

12

you in each Attack Round, but you choose which
one to fight. Attack your chosen target as in a
normal battle. Against additional opponents you
throw for your Attack Strength in the normal way; if
your Attack Strength is greater, you will not inflict a
wound, however. Just regard this as if you have
parried an incoming blow. However, if your Attack
Strength is lower, you will have been wounded in
the normal way.

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either in
battles or when you come across other situations in
which you could either be Lucky or Unlucky (details
of these are given on the pages themselves), you
may use LUCK to make the outcome more favour-
able. But beware! Using Luck is a risky business
and, if you are Unlucky, the results could be disas-
trous.

The procedure, called Testing your Luck, is as fol-
lows: Roll two dice. If the number rolled is equal to
or less than your current LUCK score, you have been
Lucky and the result will go in your favour. If the
number rolled is higher than your current LUCK
score, you have been Unlucky and you will be
penalized.

Each time you Test your Luck, you must subtract 1
point from your current LUcK score. Thus you will
soon realize that the more you rely on your LUCK,
the more risky this will become.

13
the same, you have avoided or parried each
other’s blows: start a new Attack Round from
step 1 above.

4. You have wounded your opponent, so subtract
2 points from its STAMINA Score. You may use
Luckhere to do additional damage (see below).

5. Your opponent has wounded you, so subtract 2
points from your own STAMINA. You may use
LUCK to reduce the loss of srAMINA (see be-
low).

6. Begin the next Attack Round, starting again
at step 1. This sequence continues until the
STAMINA score Of either you or your opponent
reaches zero, which means death. If your oppo-
nent dies, you are free to continue with your
adventure. If you die, your adventure ends and
you must start all over again by creating a new
character.

Fighting More Than One Opponent
In some situations you may find yourself facing
more than one enemy. Sometimes you will treat
them as a single opponent; sometimes you will fight
each in turn; and sometimes you will have to fight
them all at the same time! If they are treated as a
single opponent, the combat is resolved normally.
When you are instructed to fight your opponents
one at a time, the combat is again resolved normaliy
— except that, once you defeat a creature, the next
steps in to fight you! When you find yourself under
attack from more than one opponent at the same
time, each adversary will make a separate attack on

12

you in each Attack Round, but you choose which
one to fight. Attack your chosen target as in a
normal battle. Against additional opponents you
throw for your Attack Strength in the normal way; if
your Attack Strength is greater, you will not inflict a
wound, however. Just regard this as if you have
parried an incoming blow. However, if your Attack
Strength is lower, you will have been wounded in
the normal way.

Luck

At various imes during your adventure, either in
battles or when you come across other situations in
which you could either be Lucky or Unlucky (details
of these are given on the pages themselves), you
may use LUCK to make the outcome more favour-
able. But beware! Using LucK is a risky business
and, if you are Unlucky, the results could be disas-
frous.

The procedure, called Testing your Luck, is as fol-
lows: Roll two dice. If the number rolled is equal to
or less than your current LUCK score, you have been
Lucky and the result will go in your favour. If the
number rolled is higher than your current LUCK
score, you have been Unlucky and you will be
penalized.

Each time you Test your Luck, you must subtract 1
point from your current LUCK score. Thus you will
soon realize that the more you rely on your LUCK,
the more risky this will become.

13

tt —iORBB eee
Using Luck in Battles

On certain pages of the book you will be told to Test
your Luck, and you will then find out the con-
sequences of being Lucky or Unlucky. However, in
battles, you always have the option of using your
LUCK, either to inflict a more serious wound on an
opponent you have just wounded or to minimize
the effects of a wound you have just received,

If you have just wounded an opponent, you may
Test your Luck as described above. If you are Lucky,
you have inflicted a severe wound; deduct an extra
2 points from your opponent’s STAMINA score.
If you are Unlucky, however, your blow only
scratches your opponent, and you deduct 1 point
less from your opponent's STAMINA (i.e. instead of
scoring the normal 2 points of damage, you have
now scored only 1).

Whenever you are wounded in combat, you may
Test your Luck to try and minimize the wound. If you
are Lucky, your opponent's blow only grazes you;
you should deduct 1 point less from your STAMINA
than normal. If you are Unlucky, your wound is a
serious one and you must deduct 1 extra point from
your STAMINA.

Remember that you must subtract 1 point from your
LUCK score each time you Test your Luck.

14

More About Your Attributes

Skill
Your SKILL score will not change much during the
course of your adventure. Occasionally a paragraph
may give instructions to increase or decrease your
SKILL score, but it may not exceed its Initial value
unless you are specifically instructed.

Stamina
Your STAMINA score will change a lot during your
adventure. It will drop as a result of wounds gained
through combat, or by falling foul of certain traps,
and it will also drop after you have performed any
particularly arduous task.

You can restore lost STAMINA by eating meals or
Provisions. You start the game with 5 meals’ worth
of Provisions, and you will be given the opportunity
to obtain more during your adventure. You must
make a note of how many meals’ worth of Provi-
sions you have, in the Provisions box of your
Adventure Sheet. Each time you eat a meal, you may
restore up to 4 points of STAMINA, and you must
cross one meal off from your Provisions box. You
may stop and eat Provisions at any time except
when engaged in a battle.

Remember, your STAMINA score may never exceed
its Initial value, so there’s no point in eating meals if
your STAMINA is already at its peak.

15
Luck

Additions to your LUCK score are awarded in the
adventure when you have been particularly lucky
or have created your own luck by some action.
Details are given in the relevant paragraphs of
the book. Remember that, as with sKILL and
STAMINA, your LUCK score may never exceed its
Initial value unless you are specifically told that it
can.

Evil

You start the game with no EVIL points. As a
Templar, you are bound to uphold the values of
honour, benevolence and forgiveness. However,
unlike the good deities of Titan, as a Templar you
are not obliged to show these virtues when dealing
with your enemies, which would only exploit them
as weaknesses. But if ever you act in a manner more
befitting a servant of Chaos (by ruthlessly killing an
undeserving opponent, for example), then you will
attract the taint of EVIL. You have managed to avoid
falling from grace so far, but your enemies are now
concentrating their efforts against you, and so you
stand a greater chance of being corrupted.

If you perform certain actions which ill befit your
beliefs, you will be instructed to increase your cur-
rent EVIL score by 1 or more points. Your EVIL score
rarely decreases during the adventure. At times,
adherence to the path of honour will seem like a
restraint, but life is full of such dilemmas for a
follower of Light.

16

The question of Evil is made even more complicated
by another fact. During your previous escapades
you came to learn that sometimes you must fight
fire with fire: some demonic forms are virtually
immune to holy devices while they are extremely
vulnerable to dark magicks and certain foul arte-
facts. However, to use these forbidden things is an
act of Evil, and so your score will increase accord-
ingly if you are forced to use them.

Sometimes you will be told to Test your Evil. Instruc-
tions on how to do this will be given in the relevant
paragraph, as will the results of success or failure.

Talents

During your years of intensive training, you have
acquired a number of special Talents, which have
served you time and again on your many Demon-
hunting ventures. Choose three from the following
list and mark them in the Talents box of your
Adventure Sheet. The Talents are:

BANISH

UNDEAD —- you have the power to repel or

even destroy certain Undead

creatures, using special arcane
words and gestures.

DARK VEIL-— — youmay cast a magical aura over
yourself which, for a very short
while, renders you invisible to
most evil beings. However, this
is a trick you have leamt from

17
HEAL—

HOLY
CIRCLE -

your study of Demons and so,
whenever you use it, your EVIL
score will increase. As you
know, ‘veil’ is an anagram of
‘evil’, so be careful how you use
this Talent. Be warned, too, that
more powerful creatures will be
able to sense the veil, though
they may not see you— and may
even know a way to use the veil
against you!

through the application of spe-
cial herbs you are able to heal
various wounds and illnesses,
though some will be too difftcult
for you. However, this Talent
can be used only on others. Your
beliefs prevent you ministering
to yourself, except in times of
greatest peril.

with the aid of simple chalk,
charcoal or any other pigment,
you can draw a protective magic
circle around you which most
Demons will be unable to enter.
You may also trace a circle in dirt
or sand, etc., with your finger.

MEDITATION -this takes tme and may be

18

carried out only in a place of
absolute calm. You can com-
mune with your deities, drawing

SENSE
DEMON —

SPEAK
DEMON -

strength from the experience. If
you are able to meditate prop-
erly, you receive divine guid-
ance in the form of a vision or a
message, and you may also gain
strength from the experience in
the form of restored STAMINA
or LUCK. If your meditation is
interrupted, the result could be
disastrous for you.

you may — depending on the pre-
cise circumstances — experience
a weird tingling sensation when
certain types of Demon (includ-
ing those which are disguised!)
come within twenty feet of you
from any direction.

you can read and understand
words spoken in the foul tongue
of the Demons.

At various points in your adventure, you will be
asked whether or not you possess a certain Talent. If
you do, you will be given the option to use it, and
you should follow the appropriate instructions.
Don’t cheat by using Talents which you don’t have!

Equipment

You will embark on your quest with a minimum of
equipment, though you will probably find other

19
useful items during your travels. You carry your
sword of finest steel, Nightbane, but you do not
wear any armour. Instead you are garbed in the
hooded, flowing robes and skull-cap of your order.
You carry 10 Gold Pieces, and you also have a
backpack in which are your Provisions (you start
with enough for 5 meals), a silver Cross and three
vials of Holy Water. You should make a note of
these items on your Adventure Sheet (there are spe-
cial columns for Holy Water and Provisions, but
your Cross and Gold Pieces should be entered in the
Gold Pieces and Equipment box). You may also use
the backpack to carry any items you come across
which you may want to keep (entering them in the
Gold and Equipment box of your Adventure Sheet).
You travel the Old World on Godsfire, your fine
white stallion and oldest companion,

Words of Warning

If you have learnt anything during your years as a
Demon-Stalker, it is never to take anything for
granted where Demons are concerned: they are
clever and treacherous beyond belief. They will try
to weave you into their complex schemes; they will
fool you into acting in accordance with their plans;
and they are masters in the art of turning your own
strengths against you. Where there are Demons to
be found, you must be on constant guard, trusting
only yourself.

You must even be careful about using your special

20

Talents: some of your opponents already know all
about you and your abilities; they will have devised
ways of turning them against you — of such cruelly
twisted ideas is a Demon’s amusement made. Be
warned!

21
ADVENTURE SHEET

ENCOUNTER BOXES

Sl = Still= Skitl = Skil =
Sk § : . EVIL
se i aecidadyls ae Slammin = Stunna = Stamina = Stamina =
Initial Initial Initial ivritiatl
Skill = Shomima = Luck = Evti=
Sail) = Skill= Skill = Skill =
vey unpre HOLY WATER PROVISIONS “ ' ,
TALENTS Stumira = Stamina = Stamina = Shimina =
BANISH UNDEAD
DARKVTIL
EAT,
a v7} = . = Chill = Ne
HOLY CIRCLE GOLD PIECES & EQUIPMENT |) Ee Skill Skill
Stamina Stamina = Stimina = Stanere =
MEDITATION
SENSE DEMON
SPEAK DEMON
im . = = s r=
NOTES Skill >nuT : 1 f
Serna = Stamiua = Stamina = Sianind =

BACKGROUND

It is late at night and you lie in your room, unable to
sleep. You are idly watching the shadows thrown
on to the wall by a flickering candle, when suddenly
they take on an ominous appearance. The sil-
houette of a squat, toad-like creature forms, and
two humanoid shapes writhe in torment at its feet.
A cold flush sweeps over you as you recognize the
people: they are your parents! And the vile shape
above them can only be Myurr, your arch-foe and
one of the three Demon Lords.

Ever since that fateful day when your brother was
slain, you have sought out and killed Demons
wherever they might be found. You will never
forget that terrible scene: the two of you were work-
ing in the fields near your home when a Fanged
Demon swept down from the sky and ripped your
brother to shreds. Hearing your screams, Branner,
the village priest, came running to your aid. He was
able to destroy the Demon before it could turn on
you; at that moment you realized that you had been
spared in order to wage war against Demonkind.
There and then you vowed to become a Demon-
hunter. Later, at your brother’s funeral, a strange
ghost appeared and spoke briefly to Branner, before
disappearing; it was soon after this event that
Branner, seeing in you a hardy spirit, arranged for
you to study at the Sacred Citadel of the Templars at
Royai Lendle.

24

That seems like a long time ago now. Since then you
have slain many of the Demons inhabiting the
mountains of the Witchtooth Line. Indeed, on more
than one occasion you have even thwarted the
plans of Myurr. But you have always feared that the
Demon Lord, unable to strike directly against you,
might one day attack you through your parents.

Now your worst fears may be coming true. The
shadows on the wall twist and grow larger;
Crowford, your home village, comes into view
swathed ina thick mist. An apparition of Myurr and
your parents hangs over the village. The Demon
grins maliciously as your parents silently plead for
help. A cold gust of wind throws open the shutters
of your window and extinguishes the candle,
plunging the room into darkness. Shakily you re-
light the candle and prepare to head for your home
at daybreak.

25
Taking leave of the head of your order, you ride
north through Gallantaria. After a few days, you
cross the Whitewater River and enter your home-
land. During the journey, you try to convince your-
self that the shadows on your wall were only
projections of a rambling and tired mind. But, no
matter how hard you try, you cannot shake the fear
that grips your heart. You must put your mind at
rest by finding out whether your parents are safe.
And if they are not, then Myurr will feel your
righteous wrath!

You prepare yourself for the worst by recollecting
all you know concerning your arch-enemy and his
Demonic ways. This evil, corrupt, depraved and
chaotic being is renowned for his subtle and de-
vious schemes. In his earthly form, Myurr can ap-
pear as a huge, grotesque toad or as an innocent
young boy. More than once you have thwarted his
agents as they attempted to pervert people to their
will. Your most dangerous challenge was when you
confronted Myurr himself. He had possessed the
body of the king’s adviser and was fomenting un-
rest and rebellion throughout the kingdom of Gal-
lantaria by implementing repressive measures
against the peasantry. Fortunately, you were able to
see through his disguise, and you forced him to
abandon his evil schemes.

26

You can be in no doubt that Myurr hates you
deeply; if he has harmed your parents, you will
need all the aid you can find. Branner, the old
priest, is dead, but the new spiritual leader of
Crowford should be able to offer you assistance.
You also know Sharleena, a Seer who lives near
Crowford; she has the power to summon and speak
to spirits and has helped you many times in the
past. If there are Demons involved, her aid will be
invaluable.

You are almost home. Soon you'll know for sure
whether it was only shadows you saw on your wall,
or a glimpse of reality, Turn to 1.

27
1

You can see the village of Crowford, nestling in the
vale before you, Writhing tendrils of mist coil along
the streets and wind eerily round the houses. Sup-
pressing a shiver, you pull your cloak closer round
you and urge Godsfire onwards. To add to your
uneasiness, you can make out a grim figure swing-
ing from a wooden scaffold that stands a few yards
down the road ahead of you, It is the ragged skel-
eton of a criminal, left to rot inside gibbet irons — a
lesson to all would-be highwaymen. As a child you
used to take a short cut, away from the winding
road, through the fields on your left. Indeed, at this
time of day you might even find your parents work-
ing there. On the other hand, in this thick mist they
could well be in the village tavern. Will you take the
short cut through the fields in the hope of meeting
your parents (turn to 327) or follow the road, which
means you will have to ride under the hanging
skeleton (turn to 107)?

2
You rush downstairs and come face to face with
Kremper. He scowls menacingly and tries to hit you
with his cosh. You must deal with him swiftly.

KREMPER SKILL 6 STAMINA 5

After one round of fighting, the Orc outside gets
wind of the struggle and departs at speed, whip-
ping his horses cruelly. You carry on fighting.
When Kremper’s STAMINA score is reduced to 2 or
1, turn to 388.
3-4

3
With one mighty sweep of the spade, you hack off
both their heads. Turn to 277.

Hearing your horse’s hoofbeats approaching, the
men turn to face you, their weapons raised — but,
once they see you, they relax. Their leader, a stout,
amiable man, steps forward to greet you. ‘We have
travelled from Oakhill to bury Calbert, a young
scholar who has taken his own life. As you know,
unless a suicide is laid to rest in a special manner
beneath crossed roads, he may rise as a creature of
the night! This we cannot allow. Will you help us?’
You can choose to stay and perform your priestly
functions over this tragic ceremony (turn to 134), or
politely decline and press on with your quest. If you
leave the mourners, you may follow either the road
to Weddonbridge (turn to 249), the one to Colton-
on-the-Marsh (turn to 72), or to Astonbury (turn to

136).

5-8

A pained cry escapes from your lips as the searing
beams scorch your body. Deduct 4 points from your
STAMINA. Will you now flee and head back to the
road leading north (turn to 58) or stay and try to
destroy this evil device (turn to 208)?

6
Your power knocks the Skeleton back a few steps
but fails to damage it. Demonic magic is protecting
the Skeleton. Will you now use the DARK VEIL
Talent, if you have it (turn to 188), or attack the
Skeleton (turn to 329)?

7
The Sorcerer looks at you closely to determine

whether you are telling the truth. Roll two dice; if
the total rolled equals or is less than your EVIL
score, turn to 137; otherwise, turn to 386.

8

Dismounting, you sneak up to the caravan as
quietly as possible. Suddenly the double doors
swing open, revealing a bearded old man, clad in
voluminous robes. Smiling, he beckons you inside
and says, ‘Put away your sword and come in out of
the rain. Maybe you would like some tea?’ If you
want to use the SENSE DEMON Talent, turn to
217. If you cannot or do not want to use it, you may
accept his offer (turn to 42); alternatively, you can
attack him with your sword before he can get up to
any trickery (turn to 174). ;
9

You wake up — to find yourself lying on top of a pile
of unconscious bodies, heaped on the back of a
horse-drawn cart. They are all from the Hanged
Man Inn. Judging by the throbbing of your head,
you reckon that the ale must have been drugged.
The cart is being driven by a cloaked, hunchbacked
Orc. He mutters to himself: ‘Good set, this month.
Nice ’n’ fresh for Magrand’s experiments. Soon be
there.’ This snaps you out of your daze, just as the
cart is passing a sign saying ‘Colton-on-the-Marsh’.
Godsfire is nowhere to be seen, leaving you to fear
the worst, and your sword and all] your gold are
gone (reduce your SKILL score by 1 until you find
another weapon, and cross off any Gold Pieces
remaining on your Adventure Sheet). Because it takes
you all your strength just to lift your head, you
decide that it would be a more sensible plan to try to
escape, rather than attack the Orc. You brace your-
self and then roll off the back of the cart. Test your
Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 19. If you are Un-
lucky, turn to 162,

10-12

10

The ceiling crashes down on top of you. Roll two
dice and deduct the result from your STAMINA
score. If you are still alive, you craw! from the
wreckage and make your way outside. Fire con-
sumes the building within minutes, and you pause
to survey the ruin. Sharleena shall not be forgotten,
nor shall her death go unavenged. After uttering a
prayer for her soul, you painfully mount your horse
and return to the main road. Turn to 142.

11

Some miles on, you come to a fork in the road. A
signpost stands beside an old, broken shrine. If you
possess it and wish to avail yourself of it, you may
stop and use the MEDITATION Talent (turn to
32). Otherwise, do you take the road to Axmoor
(turn to 21), or the road to Stanford (turn to 391)?

12

Without stopping to think, you jump aside, as a
huge, deadly-sharp pendulum blade swings down
from the ceiling. A second slower and you would
undoubtedly have been killed on the spot. Wit-
nessing your narrow escape, the Demons howl in
anger and surge towards you. This is a fight you
cannot hope to win. You hurl yourself from the
duilding and dash out into the night. As you turn
your back, the Moon Demons slash at you. Roll one
die and deduct the number rolled from your
3TAMINA Score. If you are still alive, turn to 312.
13-14

13
This attempt was doomed from the start. A torrent
of heavy blows rains down upon your body; you are
only half-conscious when the angry, frightened
people, in their painful ignorance, execute you.

14

Your vision wavers and you find yourself locking
down on the Crowford of your youth. The Demonic
music can still be heard; it draws you towards the
church where a funeral is taking place. You drift
over the graveyard, through trees and gravestones
- your body has no substance, you have been trans-
formed into a ghostly spectator! Leading the pro-
cession is Branner, the old village priest and your
mentor. Behind the coffin walk your parents and
other relatives, their heads hung in sorrow. Sud-
denly you see yourself as you were all those years
ago when your brother was buried.

As you watch, one of the mourners throws a stone
at a raven perched on the wall of the graveyard. It is
an old tradition that if a raven stands watch over a
funeral, it will steal the soul of the person being
buried. The evil bird caws loudly and flies away.
You feel compelled to do something, otherwise you
will be trapped here. Will you speak to your parents
{turn to 135), speak to Branner the priest (turn to
218), or to yourself (turn to 343)?
15-16

15

Though the room is drab, the warm bed feels lux-
urious, and you are sheltered from the storm which
rages outside. Soon you fall into a deep, refreshing
sleep . . . until you are rudely awakened by a loud
banging noise. Shaking off your tiredness, you sit
up. It is stil! dark, but the rain has stopped. All is
quiet for a montent, then you hear more banging
coming from somewhere downstairs. Then you
hear the sound of hushed voices beneath your
window. If you want to get up and investigate these
odd noises, turn to 180; but if you would rather go
back to sleep, turn to 9.

16

A sharp pain slashes into your right arm. In dis-
belief, you see that Black Jack has come alive and
has bitten you with its needle-like fangs. You are
wasting your time in drawing your sword, though —
no sooner have you done so than the thing falls to
the floor, a lifeless scarecrow once again. Now you
are tainted by odious, life-corrupting Wraith-Blood
coursing through your veins. You must add 1 EVIL
point — be sure to mark this on your Adventure Sheet.
Shaken by this unlucky experience, you ride on
towards the village (turn to 51).

17-18

17

Grumont runs up and watches in horror as Palinn is
sucked down into the rushing waters. The boatman
beats his breast in his sorrow at not being there in
fime to save his son. Your cowardly reluctance to
imperil yourself by not diving in earns you 2 EVIL
points. A depression falls over your travelling com-
panions for the rest of the journey, and your night is
Plagued with guilt-racked dreams of this same
tragic scene, repeated over and over again. Turn to
381.

18
A strong wind clutches at you as you open the door.
You are pulled through and on to a barren plain.
Suddenly the same strange building appears in
front of you from out of nowhere. Will you depart
this place and follow the forest track (turn to 245), or
enter the building once again (turn to 288)?

19-21

19
You land well, and then walk over to a nearby brook
to splash some cold water over your face. The Ore,
oblivious, carries on driving. Revived, you follow
the cart into the village. Turn to 153.

20

You rush across the room and stand behind the
door, just before it swings open and Kremper walks
in, cosh in hand. Before he even knows you're
there, you bring the pommel of your sword down
hard on his head, and he falls to the floor witha cry.
Hearing this, the Orc flees, flogging his horses
mercilessly. Turn to 388.

21

Following the road to Axmoor, you are shocked to
see what has happened to the landscape, for, the
further you travel, the more blasted and desolate it
becomes. Trees, plants, everything has been tram-
pled, burnt, torn, broken or chopped down. Using

22-23

your tracking skills, you can tell that a massive
Demon army has passed this way, heading south. It
seems that you are about to enter Evil-controlled
territory. The sun sets and you grow cold as you
survey the dying earth. [f you have the SENSE
DEMON Talent, and wish to use it, turn to 206. If
you do not have it or do not wish to use it, turn to
221.

22

It is far too late to consider taking such an action.
The dagger crunches through your skull, piercing
your brain. Your adventure is over.

23
You pass through the window and find yourself
falling through space. The tower is just out of reach,
and the ground rushes up quickly towards you. As
you fall, Myurr’s repulsive laughter echoes round
you.

24-25

24

Ringed by low, wooded hills, Stanford is little more
than a smail market area that stands in the middle of
a number of fields and outlying farms. Today the
market is closed, buta few farmers stand on the site,
deep in conversation. One of them sees you and
calls you over. No one else is about and the place is
deathly still. Will you go over to the man (turn to
143), or are you going to ignore him and make your
way round the market area and out of the village
along the road leading north (turn to 362)?

25
Despite the distracting cold and the harsh, stinging
rain on your face, you feel that familiar, yet weird,
feeling of warmth which tells you that you are in
unison with your gods. Without thinking about it,
you raise your hand to an ornamental disc, carved
in the monument’s base, and turn it. There is a
grinding of stone as a small panel slides open to
reveal a secret compartment. You reach in and find
an artefact bearing a sigil of your gods. You were
destined to find this Holy Amulet. You put itin your
pack (add it to your Adventure Sheet), give thanks to
the gods and continue on your journey. Turn to 105.

26-27

26
Before more guards have time to appear, you must
decide which way you want to go. Do you want to
escape into the open, if polluted, air and leave
Axmoor altogether (turn to 374)? Or are you willing
to remain in the building and open the closed door
you saw prior to the fight (turn to 323)?

27

Shouting a phrase of exorcism, you hurl the Cross
into the worm’s fiery depths. There is a small explo-
sion and, when the acrid fumes of the blast clear,
you see that you have sealed the mouth for ever.
Gain 1 LUCK point, make a note of your success and
erase the Cross from your Adventure Sheet, Now you
must face the Death-Stone. Turn to 191.
28-30

28

Though the climb is difficult, you finally reach the
large hole in the side of the old mill and take a look
inside. You see a shadowy, loathsome chamber,
packed with all manner of strange and terrible de-
vices. In the centre of the large room stands
Magrand the Necromancer, performing a horrible
ritual of summoning. Moreover, the denizen of the
dark dimensions he is conjuring up is none other
than Myurr, the Demon Prince: your hated arch-
enemy! They are speaking in the foul tongue of your
nemesis. If you have the SPEAK DEMON Talent,
and wish to use it, turn to 235. But if you do not have
this Talent or do not wish to use it, turn to 48.

29
The poo! glows with a cool, blue light and you feel
yourself drawn into it. The light surrounds you and
bathes you in its glow; it fills your body with new
energy. Restore your Luck to its Inifial score. The
light then fades. Turn to 184.

30
Curiosity has proved to be your downfall; the
thing’s bulk in no way hampers its lightning speed.
You do not stand a chance against this timeless
horror.
31-33

31

You recognize them — they are Blight Demons,
whose very bodies emanate death and decay. For-
tunately, they feel your righteous power and recoil
from you. Turn to 277.

32

You sit crosslegged before the roadside monument
and empty your mind of all thoughts. A warm
sensation fills your body (restore 2 STAMINA
points), and then you see that something is happen-
ing to the sign indicating Stanford. The letters drip
with blood, spelling out ‘Death-on-the-marsh’.
Could this cryptic warning have something to do
with Colton? Whatever the answer, will you now go
to Axmoor (turn to 21), or to Stanford (turn to 391)?

33
You climb on to the back of the wagon, where you

are shown an old peasant woman. She has been
bitten on the arm and the wound has turned septic.
As you heal her injury, one of the peasants says,
‘Moon Demons, it was. They attacked our village,
Weddonbridge. They butchered most of the vil-
lagers, bul we got away. There’s others still trapped
up there, They’lt be all together in the hall in the
main square. It’s the only safe place.’ You finish
healing the old woman and take out your map of
Northern Gallantaria (see the map on the inside of
the front cover). Weddonbridge lies along the west-
erly road. If there are Demons attacking Weddon-
bridge, your parents may be there too. Deciding

34

that you have no time to visit Sharleena, you bid
the peasants farewell, and turn Godsfire’s head
towards the north. Turn to 142.

34
‘The tower and the Eye are your greatest threats.

For you to be safe, they must be destroyed. Say
“Shagrat’ and your way into the tower is assured.
But the true path to your destiny lies in the balance,
the Jeft balance. Seek the pool.’

As you try to make sense of her words, you sud-
denly realize that she is no longer there, You are
standing alone, on the outskirts of Dunningham.
From among a group of buildings on your right
comes the sound of loud, uncouth laughter. The
street before you seems to be empty, and the way to
your left is blocked by a stone wall. Will you walk
down the street (turn to 302) or in the direction of
the laughter (turn to 183)?

35-37

35
From your window you see Kremper and a hooded,

hunchbacked Orc loading bodies on to the back of a
horse-drawn cart. You recognize some of them —
they are people you saw in the bar, earlier this
evening. The Orc cackles, ‘Magrand will pay you
handsomely for this month’s catch.’

‘Good,’ Kremper replies. ‘The Demon-Stalker alone
should fetch me double rate. I’ll see to it now.’ The
landlord steps back into the tavern, presumably to
come and ‘see to’ you, while the Orc continues
piling the bodies on to his cart. You can either draw
your sword and go and face the landlord (turn to 2)
or prepare to ambush him in your room (turn to 29).

36
In this bleak room an icy wind draws the vital
energy from your body. Deduct 6 points from your
STAMINA and, if you are still alive, decide whether
to go through the south door (turn to 300) or the
west door (turn to 177).

37
Your vision grows hazy as you step through the

door. When it clears, you discover that you are
standing outside the strange building once more.
Will you leave this place and follow the track
through the forest (turn to 245), or do you wish to
re-enter the building (turn to 288)?

38-41

38
The villagers hack the Demon to death — but not
before it has sunk its fangs into your back and
whipped its long, rough tongue across your eyes.
Deduct 2 points from your STAMIN Aand, if you are
sll alive, turn to 338.

39
The climb proves harder than you had thought and

you take a nasty fall. Deduct 1 point from your
STAMINAan<d, if you are still alive, you will have to
go back round to the wooden door after all, since the
pile of bricks came crashing down with you. Turn to

173,

4o
You are relieved to see the barge moving at full
speed back down the river, away from this evil
place. Further along the wharf, more tentacles are
sprouting up from the bubbling riverbed. You walk
hurriedly away, determined to find the cause of all
this corruption. Turn to 130.

41
The writing is a wap, which you have activated by
reading it. ‘Welcome to the tower of Myurr. Here
death and decay await you.’ You feel yourself grow-
ing old; your skin wrinkles, and your teeth drop
out. You collapse on to the floor and die.
a

42-43

42

The caravan is packed to overflowing with all sorts
of curios. You sit down on a cushion while the old
man pours out two cups of herbal tea. ‘Drink,’ he
says with a smile. The fragrant herbal preparation is
just the overture to an exotic meal which he serves
you. Though the man is clearly no monster, you
find him infuriating because he refuses to answer
any of your questions, even though you sense that
he knows a great many things. Soon, the cosiness
and warmth of the place send you into a deep sleep
— gain 2 STAMINA points. In the middle of the
night, you have a strange dream in which your host,
holding a set of scales in perfect balance, smiles at
you and asks that you remember his name, Samatz
... before he bids you farewell and fades from
sight.

You awaken to find yourself sleeping on the hard
road where the caravan stood. Itis sunrise, and all is
dry; Godsfire looks equally refreshed — but of
Samatz or the caravan there is no trace. You have no
explanation for these strange events but, as you
take the road north to Astonbury, you sense that
you have passed some kind of test. Turn to 265.

43
Rushing recklessly into a force-wall is like hurling

yourself against the side of a blazing mountain.
Both you and Godsfire perish instantly.

44-45

44
You are amazed when you realize that the ghost is

your friend, Sharleena the Seer, of the Horned
Hills. She speaks in a mournful yet matter-of-fact
manner that fills you with dread: ‘I have been
murdered - . . a Spirit Demon. | have struggled to
come here. We are puppets in the master plan. I
offer you a link in the chain. The pool of Dun-
ningham.” Then she is blown away in the wind

What did she mean? Your mind strives for a solu-
tion, and you feel a tear running down your cheek,
Damn Myurr for all the sorrow he has beset you
with! You go to sleep .. _ Soon into the next day,
you reach Axmoor. Turn to 339.

45
For turning your back on the evil curse that is

afflicting Crowford, you gain 1 EVIL point —be sure
to note this on your Adventure Sheet. Turn to 148.

46-47

46

Leaving all your belongings behind, you turn and
run before the monster has fully emerged from the
ground. You dash along the track, running as fast as
you can and giving thanks that it doesn’t seem to be
following you: Rounding a bend, vou run smack
into something hard and bony. An agonizing pain
nps across your chest as the monster, which has
teleported itself ahead of you, lashes out at you.
Deduct 2 points from your sTaMiNA, There can be
no escape in flight. If you are still alive, will you now
fight it (turn to 331), use the SENSE DEMON
Talent, if you have it (turn to 222), or protect your-
self with the HOLY CIRCLE Talent, if you have it
(turn to 96)?

47
You are in an orange room with three doors, Will

you open the north door (turn to 379), the east door
(turn to 68), or the west door (turn to 300)?

' =
48-49

48

Although Myurr’s booming voice is all too easy to
hear, you cannot understand a word of what is
being said. Abruptly, the dialogue ends and My-
urr’s image vanishes in a cloud of revolting-
smelling smoke. As you are not much higher than
the floor of the chamber, you drop down easily and
surprise the sneering Necromancer before he has a
chance to cast any magical protections.

MAGRAND SKILL 6 STAMINA 6

If you win, turn to 293.

49
Add 1 point to your EVIL total for using the Talent.

The Veil works, and you run away from this hellish
clearing as fast as you possibly can without looking
behind you once. Allowing the Abomination to live
ears you another EVIL point. Much further along
the road, you make camp for the night, and the next
day you come to the village of Stanford. Turn to 24.

50-51

50
Your aim was awry and you have missed the vital
area; you must test your SKILL again. If you suc
ceed, turn to 359. (Don’t forget to deduct any vials
you throw from your Adventure Sheet.) If you miss
with all three vials of Holy Water, turn to 70.

51
[tis not long before you are moving slowly between
the mist-shrouded houses of Crowford. Godsfire
snorts and throws back his head in an effort to avoid
the enveloping fog, but you gently urge him for-
ward. Through the haze you are just able to make
out people fleeing from you. The sound of slam-
ming doors echoes hollowly in the mist as the
villagers lock themselves into their homes. In front
of you, a woman snatches up her child and runs into
a nearby cottage.

Realizing that your premonition is coming true, you
spur Godsfire towards your parents’ home. Once
there, you dismount and rush in through the open
door. You call out to your parents, but no answer

52-53

comes. A quick look around reveals that there is no
one to be found. Will you go to the tavern to look for
them (turn to 166), or would you rather visit the
priest, in the hope that he can shed some light on
your parents’ whereabouts (turn to 353)?

52
You are beginning to pronounce the sixth word
when, with a cold lurch of your heart, you realize
that your protections are inadequate. Your attempts
to continue are too late. You stumble over crucial
syllables, and it is done. Time and space distort
beyond all reckoning and, whatever the outcome is,
you are not on earth to see it.

53
You wade into the deep pool which comes up to

your chest. The heavy footsteps draw closer and an
armoured Ogre appears at the foot of the stairs. It
rushes towards you, swinging an iron-shod club at
your head. You scramble quickly out of the pool and
are greatly relieved when the Ogre’s club swings
harmlessly past you. You try to rush over to the
statue, but the Ogre is in your way. You must fight
it. Its armour is very thick, so, each ime you hit it,
you inflict only 1 point of damage (2 points if you
use LUCK in this battle and are Lucky, buto points if
you are Unlucky).

ARMOURED OGRE _ SKILLQ STAMINA 10

If you win, will you tip the scales to the left (turn to
29) or to the right (turn to 397)?

54-55

54
Though you fight to the very best of your ability,
you find yourself being dragged closer and closer by
the Abomination’s strong tentacles towards its
gaping maw. Then the creature’s mouth snaps over
your head and closes, the top jaw acting like a
guillotine. Your adventure is most horribly over.

You are flung forward to the far side of the bridge,
where you land badly (deduct 3 points from your
STAMINA). If you are still alive, you watch in sil-
ence while the tentacles tear down what is left of the
bridge. Before the tentacles can rise again, you flee
towards the centre of the village, where you hope to
find the cause of all this evil. Turn to 130.

56-58

56

You climb the staircase for what seems like hours;
you reckon that you must have climbed for hun-
dreds of feet. You are starting to think that you are
trapped on a never-ending spiral staircase when
you are confronted by a large Horned Skeleton. It
swings a gigantic axe which swishes harmlessly
over your head. You step back instinctively and,
although the Skeleton makes no move towards you,
it blocks the stairway completely. Will you use the
DARK VEIL Talent, if you have tt, to sneak past
the Skeleton (turn to 188), or destroy it with the
BANISH UNDEAD Talent, if you have it (turn to
6), or attack it (turn to 329)?

57
Miraculously, you crash through a weak barn roof

and come to rest in thick bales of cushioning hay.
You rise with only slight bruising to show for your
mishap. Seeing no one is about, you hurriedly
sneak out of the farmyard and make your way along
a dusty trail towards the nearby village. Turn to 153.

58
Further north, you come to a small roadside cross, a
holy monument where travellers such as yourself
may stop for a moment's divine contemplation.
Here you may dismount and offer prayers to your
gods (turn to 306) or continue in your search for
shelter from the pouring rain (turn to 105).

59

Certain conditions, coupled with the power of
Good over Evil, will determine the success of your
desperate magic. Ignoring the milling chaos around
you, you concentrate and begin to utter the seven
fatal words.

Read through the list of conditions that follows and
total the number of points you are entitled to:

For having a Cross 1 point
For each vial of Holy Water you use 1 point
(deduct any Holy Water you use,
but not the Cross, from your
Adventure Sheet)
For having the SPEAK DEMON

Talent 1 point
For having the HOLY CIRCLE

Talent 2 points
For sealing the worm-like mouth in

this chamber 2 points
For turing a Red Dial in a previous

paragraph 4 points
For turning a Blue Dial in a previous

paragraph 2 points
For turning a Green Dial in a previous

paragraph 1 point

All these conditions are cumulative, so, for exam-
ple, you score a total of 6 points if you have the
HOLY CIRCLE (2 points) and SPEAK DEMON
(1 point) Talents, a Cross (1 point), and have turned
a Blue Dial (2 points).

60

Now roll two dice. If the total rolled is equal to or
less than the number of points you have scored,
turn to 287. lf the number rolled is higher, turn to

52.

60

You raise your hands to show you mean no harm,
but find yourself overwhelmed in a wave of mob-
hatred. It seems that Magrand is despised by the
whole village and is held responsible for all its
misfortunes. Because you asked the way to his
abode, they think you must be one of his servants.
Amid cries of ‘Hang ‘im’ and ‘String ‘im up’, the
enraged folk seize you and drag you into the village
square. There they throw a rope overa tree and drag
vou towards it. Will you try and break free by force
(furn to 13) or attempt to persuade the mob of your
Goodness? If you prefer the latter course, you may
do so either by talking to the villagers (turn to 361),
or, if you have the HEAL Talent and wish to use it,
by offering to cure any who are sick (turn to 97).

61-62

61
Soon you reach the isolated cottage that Sharleena
calls home. As you dismount, the door opens and
Sharleena, dressed in flowing robes, walks out to
greet you. ‘Bad times are upon us, Demon-Stalker.
Your parents are not the only ones to suffer in
Myurr’s plans.’ She beckons you to enter. ‘Come,
warm yourself by the fire.’ Inside, you sip a cup of
hot wine while she explains why now is the best
time to contact the spirits. You know, from past
dealings with Sharleena, that your presence is not
necessary during the summoning, but nor is it
forbidden. Will you ask to be present at the sum-
moning (turn to 214), or will you wait here (turn to

345)?

62
You shout, ‘“Grumont, get away while you still have
time!’ then start to lash out at the coiling grey
tentacles.

TENTACLES SKILL 9

If you win, turn to go.

STAMINAS

63-65

63
Though you travel for miles, you can find no shel-
ter. Exhaustion finally forces you to dismount and
sleep on the waterlogged earth. You are woken in
the middle of the night by the howls of hungry
wolves. Swiftly you snatch up your sword just as
three of the beasts pounce on you. You must fight
them all at the same time.

SKILL STAMINA
FirstWOLF 8 6
Second WOLF 7 5
Third WOLF 6 9

if you manage to defeat them, you return to a more
restful sleep until sunrise. Turn to 265.

64
You utter the name ‘Samatz’ and the Sorcerer looks
at you with renewed interest. After a few moments
he nods and bids you to follow him. Turn to 348.

65
Imbued with Demonic essence, the Abomination is
incredibly powerful. You raise your sword and
charge — with a sense of resignation.

ABOMINATION SKILL 6
After two rounds of combat, turn to 248.

STAMINA 13
66-68

66
The Courthouse is nothing more than a shell. You
are just about to leave when you notice a flight of
dusty steps, hidden by cobwebs, leading down. If
you wish to brush away the cobwebs and descend
the steps, turn to 358. Otherwise, you can go to the
pond (turn to 344) or to the Temple (turn to 380).

67
Harak seems absorbed in cleaning the glass, and he
ignores your request for a drink. When you ask
again for service, he mutters, ‘We only serve decent
folk here,’ Abandoning this option, will you go over
and talk to Darrow (turn to 244) or Jeave the inn and
pay a visit to the priest (turn to 353)?

68

You enter a room that is decorated entirely in red
paint, and realize that you have just walked
through a Door of Teleportation. Accordingly, you
cannot be sure just where the other exits from this
chamber will lead. Four such doors can be seen; will
you go through the north door (turn to 300), the
south door (turn to 199), the east door (turn to 316}
or the west door (turn to 47)?

69-71

69
Sweat pours off your brow as you struggle to resist
the Death-Stone’s warping powers. You are about
to lose consciousness when suddenly the opposi-
tion ends: your inherent Goodness has triumphed.
But now you sober up as you remember the only
thing that can shatter a Death-Stone: the Seven
Words of Akkarra. Using this most dangerous black
art could kill you. Dare you undertake it? If you do,
turn to 59. Otherwise, you will have to flee the
building before the Demonic guards snap out of
their hysteria (turn to 374).

70

The Moon Demons pour through the hole in the
roof. Desperately you try to fight them off, but they
knock you down through the trapdoor, You land
with a sickening crunch on the floor below and,
before you can even stand up again, the Moon
Demons swarm all over you. You will never know
what became of your parents.

71
You ride north-west for some time along a winding
road, before camping for the night in a grassy
clearing. You are awakened by a foul stench in your
nose and, when you open your eyes, are shocked to
find your horse dead and three fetid Zombies feed-
ing on its torn flesh! If you have the BANISH
UNDEAD Talent and wish to use it, turn to 204; if
not, you must draw your sword and deal with them
the hard way (turn to 328)

72

Tes
You ride north for a couple of hours along the road
to Colton. Just as the thunder gives way to heavy
rain, you chance to come across a tavern. It’s an
eerie-looking place with an old, battered sign, de-
picting a hanged man, creaking in the wind. But any
fears about the place are cast aside as you are met by
the welcoming warmth of the bar. Kremper, the
rough-looking half-Orc landlord, calls an ostler to
take care of Godsfitre, while he sees to your needs. A
room for the night costs you 3 Gold Pieces (deduct
them from your Adventure Sheet). While serving you
a bowl of steaming broth and a flagon of ale,
Kremper says, ‘Pay your way, and there'll be no
questions asked — but make any trouble, and Black
Bess’ll see to you.’ He gestures towards a wooden
cosh hanging from his belt. Folk need to be tough in
these parts, so you let the threat pass; instead, you
ask Kremper if he’s noticed anyone like your par-
ents passing through the area. He tells you that he
hasn‘t and then goes to serve another customer.
You eat your food at the bar (restore 4 points of
STAMINA); you decide to find yourself a more
comfortable seat for your drink. There aren’t many
tables in the small room, and most of them are

73

occupied. Still, there are plenty of spare seats by
each. Will you sit:

Alone? Turn to 94
With a ragged old man who gibbers
incessantly? Turn to 115

With a quiet, hooded, young man? Turn to 314
With a scar-faced woman in leather
armour? Turn to 145

Standing on the edge of the hole, you can now see
that it is some sort of semi-organic tube and, as
such, it must be connected to the awful building.
The bottom of the five-foot-wide tube is obscured by
clouds of rising gas which, though it makes your
eyes water, is not the same as the black smog
billowing out of the chimneys. Vein-like growths
that line the sides of the tube afford you hand-
holds, should you decide to climb down. Will you
descend this tube (turn to 186) or go back to the iron
door (turn to 141)?

74-75

74
‘The tower and the Eye are your greatest threats.

For you to be safe, they must be destroyed. Say
“Crakanat’ and your way into the tower is assured.
But the true path to your destiny lies in the balance,
the right balance. Seek the pool.’

As you try to make sense of her words, you sud-
denly realize that she is no longer there. You are
standing, alone, on the outskirts of Dunningham.
From among a group of buildings on your right you
can hear loud, uncouth laughter. The street before
you seems to be empty, and the way to your left is
blocked by a stone wall. Will you walk down the
street (turn to 302) or in the direction of the laughter
(turn to 183)?

75
Though sincere in your oaths and utterances, you

cannot be sure that the mysterious deities have
heard your prayers. You shiver from the cold as
you remount your trusty steed and continue on to
Weddonbridge. Turn to 105.
76-77

76

You spur Godsfire along the road to Colton-on-the-
Marsh just as dawn is breaking. You are confident
that you can catch up with the Ore - until you come
to a narrow rocky pass that is blocked by a ten-foot-
high wall of shimmering black-light. Somehow the
Orc has erected a magical barrier. You can avoid it
by climbing over the rocks on either side of the
gully; but this would mean leaving Godsfire behind
and so the Orc would escape, as you could then
only pursue him on foot. Will you race through the
barrier on horseback (turn to 112) or dismount and
climb past it, in the hope of catching up with the Orc
later on in Colton (turn to 215)?

77
The crystal ball flies across the table and smashes on

the floor. Shards of crystal are flung into the air, but
the ritual goes on. Myurr’s taloned hand slashes
across your arm as you leap back from his attack.
Lose 2 points from your STAMINA and, if you are
still alive, return to 398 to chose your next action

78-80

The coachmen and passengers have all died at the
hands of the Shape-shifter. Disappointed at not
finding any survivors, you search the bodies for
clues, On a large fat man is a letter which identifies
him as the Burgmeister of Dunningham. On an-
other body you find a small glass phial which con-
tains a Potion of Heroism. You may dink this at the
start of any one battle: it restores 2 points of
STAMINA and, for the duration of that battle, it will
increase your SKILE score by 2 points. Will you now
search the coach (turn to 257), or press on towards
Dunningham (turn to 240)?

You have passed through the correct door and
stand within a glowing sphere of light. Before you
floats the Key to Space. As you reach out and take it,
an octagonal door appears before you. The Key
slides easily into the door’s lock and you pass
through it. You have escaped the prison of the
Netherworld Sorcerer, and you now find yourself
standing on a track in the middle of a forest. Turn to

245.

So
You manage to get your fingers on the Cross
through a tear in your backpack, and you place it
against the evil organic substance behind you. The
effect is instantaneous. The tendrils thrash about in
pain and let you go. Seeing this, the guards race
towards you. Turn to 263.
81-82

8x
You leap out of the way of the falling ceiling and
dash outside. As you leave the cottage, it collapses
in a roar-of flames, Beating some sparks off your
robes, you stop to watch the place burn. Sharleena’s
death saddens you, but you promise to make Myutt
pay for it. After saying & prayer for Sharieena, you
mount your horse and return to the main read. Turn

io 142.

§2

You paur oil over the Baleful Eye, causing it to burst
into Hames, The Eye lets out a ternble shriek and
starts to shudder, splashing the burning oil all over
the floor. As the wooden tower rages with fire, you
make your escape down the rope. Turn to 224-

83-84

83
You race off into the night until the mournful Ghost
is left far behind. . . yet, for some reason, you feela
nagging doubt. A few miles on, you camp for the
night, and it is not long after sunrise of the next day
when you reach Axmoor. Turn to 339.

84
Roll two dice. If the total rolled is equal to or less
than the number of Gold Pieces you offered, turn to
209; otherwise, turn to 106.

85-87

85

Anson unbars the church door, hands you a spade
and wishes you luck. When you re-enter the grave-
yard, the screams have grown louder, and when
you are mere feet away from the grave, they rise toa
shriek and the soil covering the grave suddenly
erupts. You are horrified to see two rotting, skeletal
creatures scrambling out of the ground. Flesh dan-
gles from the cadaverous and bony fingers which
are reaching for your throat. If you want to invoke
the BANISH UNDEAD Talent, turn to 31. But if
you cannot or do not want to use it, turn to 232.

86

Tom sighs and tries to conceal his disappointment.
He shrugs and walks listlessly back towards his
farm, to await whatever fate lies in store for him and
his family. With a pang of remorse you realize that
you have condemned him to certain death. You
gain 1 EVIL point. Now turn to 362.

87

These twisted creations of Magrand the Necro-
mancer dissolve on contact with the Goodness of
your special attack; their corpses gurgle and merge
with the murky sludge of the marsh. Now turn to
196.

88—91

88
You present your Cross boldly, but she just laughs
at you. You feel more than a little foolish when she
tells you to put your toy away. Will you now attack
her {turn to 189), talk to her (turn to 347), or ignore
her and walk into the village (turn to 283)?

Myurr has chosen his moment well. You have suc-
cumbed to his Demonic power. ‘Your knowledge of
human landsss shall ssserve me well. You shall
have the honour of leading my Demonsss againssst
Royal Lendle.’ You are completely in the power of
Myurr.

go
An overpowering Demonic presence lurks within

the building. Rather than face it, you rush towards
the itluminated stone building. Turn to 312.

gi
You have ridden a matter of yards only when your
body is pierced by a volley of arrows. Disbelief is
etched upon your features as you fall to the ground,
dead.

92-94

92
Quickly you take hold of the stout rope and throw it
towards the boy whose arms are flailing feebly
against the pull of the river. Roll two dice. If the total
is less than or equal to your sx ttt, turn to 261-if itis
greater than your skILL, turn to 27.

93
The runes mean nothing to you. Will you turn the

Red Dial (turn to 213), the Blue Dial (turn to 239) or
the Green Dial (turn to 315)? Lf you'd rather not
touch any of them, you will have to leave by the
“ame Way you came in, as there are no other exits
(turn to 272).

94
You make your way over to an empty, beer-stained
table, where you relax with your drink, Test your
uk Ifyou are Lucky, turn to 373: if vou are
Unlucky, turn to 251.
95-96

95
A horse-drawn wagon driven by a huge Orc rounds

the corner. Seeing you, the Orc makes the wagon
swerve in an attempt to run you down. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 324; if you are
Unlucky, turn to 155.

96

You quickly create your circle of holy protection as
the fiend leaps towards you. It hits the edge of your
circle and is flung backwards in a shower of blue
sparks. The Demon howls and you see that the skin
on its arms has been seared by your power. Only
slightly deterred, the Demon circles round you and
takes a tentative swipe at your back. Again the blue
sparks burn the Demon’s arms. Screaming in pain
and rage, it tears off through the trees, snapping
trunks and branches in its fury. After a few minutes
all goes quiet, and you continue on your way. Turn
to 98.

97

97
Just as two burly men are fashioning the rope into a

noose and looping it round your neck, you call out
for mercy and shout that the gods of Good protect
you. This makes the villagers pause. An old woman
asks you for proof, a demand which is taken up by
all of them, until you are deafened by the din. When
the noise subsides, you ask that someone be
brought forward for healing. After some time, a sad
couple are led before you and present you with their
baby daughter, who is dying of incurable swamp
fever. You ask for a moment's silence, and then use
all your skills to cure the child. The symptoms of
its infection vanish almost immediately, and the
people cheer and release you. Turn to 321.

98-99

98

A tall, black tower lies before you. Lightning
crackles round it and forks down to scorch the
surrounding ground. Horrid gargoyles leer at you
: from the walls but make no attempt to stop you
from reaching the tower. You pick your way
through the blasts of lightning and arrive at the
ts closed door upon which a mystic sigil has been
se | 3. ; drawn. It might have been placed there to protect
4d MM ha 4 the tower. . . or it could be a trap, designed to lure
the unwary into touching it. Will you open the door
and enter the tower (turn to 336), or rub out the sigil
with your hand and then enter the tower (turn to

266)?

rf .

”.

‘
hs

The water feels oily and unpleasant . . . but that is
the least of your worries, as a sickly green-coloured
mound of sludge rears up over you and crashes
down on top of you. Everything goes black. Your
body is dissolved by the repulsive creature. No one
will ever know what happened to you.

100

100

The creature spirals down towards the large vil-
lage: a collection of farms and unusually well-kept
houses, ringed by a vast and very smelly bog, which
extends for miles around. An abandoned mill
stands, half a mile from the village, on an island in
the fen; it is joined to the mainland by a long,
narrow causeway of compacted earth. You can also
see a network of treacherous paths spreading in all
directions over the marsh. Bracing yourself for
whatever is to come, the one thing you do not
expect is an assassination attempt! But the beast
drops you into a pool of quicksand! Despite the
sucking grip of the bog, you manage to free yourself
and take stock of your surroundings. Before your
very eyes, the paths leading back to the village are
sinking into the mire. The way ahead seems equally
perilous. You must find this Magrand who seems to
have such a personal interest in your affairs. Will
you go deeper into the marsh (turn to 395) or head
for the safer-looking causeway leading to the old
mill (turn to 335)?

101-102

101

The broad corridor continues for quite some dis-
‘ance, twisting and turning, and, the further you go
along it, the hotter it gets. Eventually you come toa
straight stretch which ends at a large, open door-
way. From within come the loud, grating sounds of
Done on bone, and a tremendous wave of heat. Do
vou wish to enter this chamber (turn to 254), or do
vou prefer to retrace your steps back down the
narrow passageway (turn to 272)?

102

The long night gives way to dawn without further
untoward incident. You have successfully de-
tended the family and its home. Add 1 point to your
LucK, As you make ready to leave, Gertrude brings
vou a basket of food containing enough Provisions
ror 3 meals. You may eat some now or add them to
your Adventure Sheet. You make your farewells and
‘eave the farmhouse. Now turn to 187.

103-105

103

Even as the Vampire’s claws are lunging through
the air towards you, you reach into your pack and
deftly pull out your Cross. Calbert snarls in pain as
the pure silver burns its image into his hands and
forces him back down into the ravaged coffin. He
curses and cringes like a beaten cur, wailing terrible
threats of revenge —but you stand firm, holding him
at bay, while one of the peasants drives a wooden
stake deep into his heart. Add 1 point to your LUCK
for quick thinking and turn to 303.

104

You know of no way to stop the Rite other than by
killing the Moon Demon. Shouting the battle-cry of
the Templars, you leap out of cover and move to
smite down your Demonic foe.

MOON DEMON MAGE SKILL6 STAMINAQ
After two rounds of combat, turn to 268.

105

The rain continues to cascade from the sky, turning
the road into a quagmire. Unable to ride any fur-
ther, you dismount and lead Godsfire by the bridle
through the long night. Dawn is but a few hours
away when you reach the outskirts of Weddon-
bridge. A winged creature flits across the road in
front of you, and dark shapes move about in the
trees. A heavy, oppressive atmosphere oozes out of
the village, assailing your nostrils with the stench of
evil. Sensing this, Godsfire bolts off into the woods.

106

Knowing full well you will not be able to find him in
the dark, you stand and survey the village. A light is
shining from a large stone building in the village
square. Next to you, an open doorway leads into a
wooden house. Will you move towards the stone
building (turn to 312) or enter the wooden house
{turn to 394)?

106

The Orc cries out and you hear running footsteps
converging on you. Twenty Orcs and three Ogres
quickly surround you. Knowing that it is useless to
resist, you throw down your sword, only to be hit
across the face by one of the Ogres. Deduct 2 points
from your STAMINA. If you are still alive, the
jeering Orcs tie you up and throw you into a room at
the bottom of the tower. As they leave, one of the
Orcs says, ‘This one’ll make a tasty snack for Old
Beady.’ This must be some kind of joke, as the other
Orcs find it extremely funny. Test your Luck. If you
are Lucky, turn to 290; if you are Unlucky, Test your
fuck again. If you are Unlucky again, turn to 138;
otherwise, turn to 290.

107-108

107

Drawing near the gibbet irons, you see that they are
old and on the point of collapse. The rope linking
the cage with the wooden scaffold is frayed and
rotten; the cage itself is more rust than metal, and
the splintered scaffold is plagued with mould.
Worse still, the festering skeleton held by the iron
bars is laughing! Its bony body judders and thrashes
within the restricting confines of the cage, and its
skull rocks with malevolent glee. Somehow it
knows your name and, in a gruff voice, it mocks
you: “You're too late, fool, Your pathetic powers
cannot aid you now.’ Will you strike at the skeleton,
hanging up in the cage, with your sword (turn to
219), or ignore it and race onwards (turn to 126)?

108
Under the cover of invisibility, you easily slay the
Demonic Servants. Gain 1 EviL point for having
used this Talent. Turn to 280.

109~112

109
You reach the armour and are just about to take it
when dozens of knives slide into you. You fall to the
floor, cursing yourself with your last breath for
being a fool. Myurr has played his final trick upon
you.

410
Quickly you call the villagers over so that they can
all cram into your HOLY CIRCLE. The Moon
Demons attempt to storm the mystical barrier, but
the first ones to reach it are engulfed in bright blue
flames. Seving this, the other Demons hastily back
off and wait for your power fo wane. Turn to 230.

111i

You smash the candles aside, extinguishing them as
they roll across the floor. Myurr leaps upon you and
wounds you in the side; you must deduct 4 points
from your STAMINA. Return to 398 to choose your
next action, if you are still alive.

142
Bravely, you charge headlong into the force-wall.
Test Your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 275; if you
are Unlucky, turn to 43.

113-114

113
Hidden by tangled foliage, you see a cloudy,
elemental-like form in the shape of a huge, winged
beast appear over the rise. It stops and sniffs the air,
then it departs, flying eastwards at a terrific speed.
You are convinced that it must have been the prod-
uct of a powerful magical spell. When it is out of
sight once more, you are on the point of getting up
when you discover a leather package lying on the
ground near by. The watertight wrapping contains
enough Provisions for one meal, and you may keep
them. Then you set off, following the north road
once more.

You are only part of the way to Axmoor when night
falls and you take shelter in a small, ruined tower.
Senses alert, you are starting to build a fire when
you feel an unnatural coldness. Obeying your in-
stincts, you look out into the surrounding woods
and see a glowing shape drift slowly towards you. It
is a Ghost. If you have the BANISH UNDEAD
Talent, you may use it (turn to 165). Otherwise, you
may flee (turn to 282), or wait, crouched on the
stone floor, to see what the Ghost will do (turn to

44).

114
Will you respond by saying, ‘Shut your face and get
out of my way!’ (turn to 170) or ‘I’ve been sent to
check on what is happening here, so you had better
do as [ say’ (turn to 367)?
115-116

£15
You sit down by the peculiar old man. His table isa
swamp of stale beer, and he himself gibbers, sings
to himself and makes other strange noises. But
when he notices you, he tugs at your sleeve: ‘Hey,
friend, buy an old man a drink, and I'l! tell you
stories about this place that’ll have you running
back home.’ If you want to buy him a drink, turn to
202; if you don’t, turn to 234.

116
Slow to react, the guards fight one at a ime. If you
ever score two blows against the same opponent in
two successive Attack Rounds, it is destroyed, irre-
spective of its current STAMINA score,

SKILLSTAMINA
First DEMONIC SERVANT 6 6
Second DEMONIC SERVANT 7 8
Third DEMONIC SERVANT 8 10

If you win, turn to 26.

117-119

117
Roll one die to find out how many Skeletons you
destroy, If any remain, you must fight them all at
the same time. Each has skILt 7, STAMINA 6. If
you win, turn to £29

118
A large crack zig-zags its way across the ceiling. Test
your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 81. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 10.

119

You follow Gerard’s directions, moving carefully
across the wrecked village to avoid the many Orc
patrols. However, the Baleful Eye has sensed your
presence and its gaze sweeps towards you. Choose
a number between 1 and 6, then roll one die a
maximum of six times. If you roll the number you
chose, turn to 369; otherwise, turn to 344.

120-122

120
You feel an overwhelming desire to play the instru-
ment. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, you manage
to tear yourself away and hurriedly leave the room
(turn to 199). If you are Unlucky, you can do
nothing but play the Pandemonium .. . Your ad-
venture is over; you are trapped in Myurr’s tower
until you die.

121
Acting on your well-honed instincts, you dive for
the floor. As you roll forward and then flip up on to
your feet, the beams shoot harmlessly overhead. Do
you want to take flight and return to the road
leading north (turn to 58), or are you prepared to
hold your ground against this dark device (turn to
208)?

122

You sprint after the racing vehicle for all you are
worth and make a jump for the open back. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, you have landed on the cart;
turn to 311. But if you are Unlucky, you miss the cart
altogether and merely fall flat on your face (deduct 1
point from your sTAMINA). If you are still alive,
you have to let the villain go (turn to 357).

123-125

123
Valiantly you rush over to one of the windows,
hoping to stem the onslaught of evil — but you only
succeed in making yourself a target. You are in-
stantly surrounded by countless slavering Moon
Demons which you must try to fight all at once.

MOON DEMONS
After three rounds of combat, turn to 230.

SKILL11 STAMINA 24

tas
You step into a green room with four doors. Will
you go through the north door (turn to 363), the
south door (turn to 152), the east door (turn to 47),
or the west door (turn to 379)?

125
You are flung forward, landing on the far side of the
bridge. Instinctively, you curl into a ball and roll
forward, protecting yourself from the impact of the
fall. Behind you, the tentacles drag the mighty
bridge down into the river, Without pause, you turn
and run into the village, where you hope to confront
the source of all this evil. Turn to 130.
126-127

126

Though the mocking Jaughter continues with in-
creased volume and renewed vigour, you ignore
the skeleton and carry on towards your village,
nervously urging Godsfire to step out beneath the
hanging cage. For a moment, you sense the icy
fingers of evil caress your spine, but nothing
hinders your progress, and soon the skeleton’s
taunting passes out of earshot. Turn to 51.

127
Agreeing to the leader’s desperate request, you turn
your horse’s head around and set off back to the
south. However, once you are out of sight of
the men, you urge Godsfire off the road into the
thickets and then make your way cautiously back
towards the barrier. Progress is slow and difficult,
but you manage to get past the barricade. Unfor-
tunately, in the pitch-black wood, you also manage
to get hopelessly lost. Worse still, as the hours go
by, you see blotches forming on your skin. The
peasants were not exaggerating: the plague is about
— and you have caught it! If you have the HEAL
Talent and wish to use it, turn to 228; otherwise,
turn to 366.

128-129

128
The Orcish clothing smells disgusting and is cov-
ered in a thick layer of grease. Even so, it could
make a useful disguise. You pick up a cloak and find
a helmet with a skull-like visor; if you wear these, it
would be hard to distinguish you from an Orc. If
you put them on, make a note that you have done so
on your Adventure Sheet. You may now search the
barrels (turn to 203) or climb the ladder (turn to 157).

129
You have won, but at what cost? If you have the
HEAL Talent and wish to use it, turn to 318. Other-
wise, turn to 102.

130-131

130

Most of the buildings in the centre of the village
have been levelled, leaving a wide circular clearing.
In the middle of this space stands the cause of
Axmoor’s devastation: a huge and repulsive edifice
constructed out of organic matter, a mixture of bone
and oozing sinew which, on closer inspection, re-
sembles slime-covered, worm-like joints and fi-
brous links. Numerous protruding vents and
chimneys spew out thick, heavy gases which fill the
air, blotting out the sunlight and slowly killing all
life. Quivering roots spread from the factory, twist-
ing and writhing before sinking into the dying
earth, and itis these roots that attacked you on your
arrival. You must find a way to bring this place
down or die in the attempt; it bears all the hallmarks
of Myurr. You can take one of two possible en-
trances: a massive iron doorway (turn to 141) or a
circular hole in the ground from which thin vapours
tise (turn to 73).

131
It isn’t long before you regret going out on to the
marsh; you get stuck twice, fall over once and have
to retrace your steps time and again. Looking back,
you see that the village is still quite close, even
though you are now tired and up to your knees in
mud. You are on the point of returning . . . when
the path behind you sinks into the fen. Do you press
on deeper into the marsh (turn to 395) or change
direction and head for the causeway leading to the
old mill (turn to 335)?
132-134

132

A hiss escapes from the Skeleton’s mouth as it
points triumphantly in your direction. The others
spur their unholy steeds towards you. You consider
running into the forest ~ when the first Skeleton
rider smashes into you, knocking you to the
ground. As you struggle back to your feet, the
Skeletons hack at your body and their horses’ hoofs
pound you into the ground. The last thing you see is
eight grinning skulls staring down at you.

133

Forgetting the horror of your dire predicament, you
enter into a deep trance. Restore 1 point of
STAMINA and 1 point to your LUCK for the experi-
ence. You also see two separate visions: one is of a
glowing cross and the other is of a black heart
beating madly, a heart which you must find and
destroy. Now, will you use the DARK VEIL Talent
~ if you have it and wish to use it— (turn to 149); or
bite one of the tendrils on your face (turn to 332); or
press your Cross against the living wall behind you
(turn to 80)?

134
The downcast villagers stand round as you chant
the solemn burial rites — but you are only halfway
through when you hear scratching sounds coming
from under the coffin lid. The villagers begin to
shuffle nervously and you try to rush through the
remainder of the ceremony. Suddenly the coffin

135-136

disintegrates in a shower of splinters as Calbert the
Vampire claws his way out of the grave. Will you:

Stand and fight this nightmarish

creature? Turn to 337
Fall back and flee? Turn to 200
Try to think of another way to

defeat it? Turn to 103

135

Your parents scream and flee in terror from your
ghostly form. Branner spins around and begins to
chant. Too late you recognize that he is using his
BANISH UNDEAD Talent against you, Roll
two dice and subtract the total rolled from your
STAMINA. If you are still alive, you find yourself
back in the Pandemonium chamber. Not wishing to
listen to the funeral march any longer, you leave the
room. Turn to 199.

136

Following the easterly road to Astonbury for a cou-
ple of hours, you are eventually caught in a heavy
downpour of rain. You will need to find shelter -
and soon. In the dark you make out a comforting
light, shining through the shuttered windows of a
four-wheeled caravan, parked by the roadside. You
note the absence of draft animals — and, even
stranger, there isn’t a single hoofprint to be seen on
the muddy road. How, then, does the caravan
move? If you want to investigate further, turn to 8.
But if you would rather ride on, turn to 63.

137-139

137
You trick the Netherworld Sorcerer into believing
that you are Evil. However, your deception weighs
heavily upon you and you must gain 1 EVIL point.
The Sorcerer says that he will teleport you to
Myurr’s tower. He waves his arms, then points
towards you. Turn to g8.

138

You try to escape, but your bonds are too tight; all
you succeed in doing is chafing your wrists. After
an hour, an Ogre comes in, picks you up and carries
you to the top of the watchtower, where he drops
you in front of the Baleful Eye. Thick tendrils spring
out from the Eye and wrap round your helpless
form. Each time you breathe in, they constrict ever
tighter round your body until you can no longer
draw breath. You will never know what happens
next. Your quest is over.

139
You draw your sword and creep cautiously into the
dark interior of the building. As your eyes grow
accustomed to the gloom, you make out hordes of
small, winged Demons closing in on you. Their eyes
glint evilly and dark liquid drips from their fanged
jaws. Suddenly, you become aware of a faint swish-
ing sound above your head. Test your Luck. If you
are Lucky, turn to 12. If you are Unlucky, turn to
192,

140-141

140

You see a creature that can only be the product of a
powerful magician’s spell: a cloudy, elemental-like
form in the shape of a huge, winged beast. It flies
over the ridge towards you and plucks you up off
the ground with its talons. You’re carried high up
into the sky, and the creature flies eastwards at a
tremendous speed, covering miles in mere seconds.
As it does so, the word ‘Magrand’ enters your head;
you have sensed the name of the magician by com-
ing into contact with the aura of his magic. Soon you
reach a large village encircled by marshland; though
the creature is starting to descend, you are still at
least a hundred feet up in the air. Do you want to
attack the winged shape (turn to 175) or hang on for
dear life, risking whatever awaits you on terra firma
(turn to 100}?

141

Nothing stirs as you edge carefully round the iron
door. Inside, you find yourself in a large porch-like
room whose walls are lined with innumerable
twitching tendrils like insect traps. There is only one
other exit: an open archway giving on to a small,
dark corridor. However, four figures are standing
guard; they resemble animated skeletons clad in
black, hooded robes, and their red eyes blaze with
malevolence. It may just be possible to sneak past
these Demonic Servants in the darkness and make
your way across to the archway. If you want to try
this, turn to 158; but if you would rather slip back
outside and try to gain access via the hole in the
ground, turn to 73.
142-143

142
Menacing clouds blot out the moon, but you are stl]
able to follow the road as it winds northwards.
Thunder rumbles ominously overhead, but you
ignore the growing storm and press on, until you
come to a crossroads. Barely visible beneath their
lanterns, a group of peasants are standing in a tight
circle round a signpost. They carry pitch-forks,
scythes and other unfriendly-looking farm tools. As
you draw near, a sudden flash of lightning enables
you to see that four of them are lowering something
into a freshly dug hole at the foot of the post. If you
wish, you may stop and see what they are up to
(turn to 4). Otherwise, you ignore the strange scene
and gallop swiftly along one of the other three
roads. If you do this, you can go to either Wed-
donbridge (turn to 249), Colton-on-the-Marsh (turn
to 72), or Astonbury (turn to 136).

143

The farmer introduces himself as Tom Hickson. He
looks nervous, and it is obvious from the dark rings
under his eyes that he has not slept for some days,
Tom tells you that a force of Skeleton riders has been
attacking the farms near Stanford. Five farms so far
have been destroyed, and Tom fears that his farm
will be next. He implores you to help defend his
farm. Will you go with him (turn to 156), or continue
on your way (turn to 86)?
144-145

144

Against all the odds, you have defeated Magrand
the Abomination and have thwarted one of Myurr’s
darkest designs. Using the flaming, ritual braziers,
you destroy the Moon Demon’s body and the hor-
rible stone altar before moving on. Further along the
road, you make camp for the night, and the next day
you come io the village of Stanford, Restore 1 LUCK
point and turn to 24

145

Just as you sit down, you see the woman unsheathe
a long dagger. She rises slowly, her mouth turning
to an ugly grin, and you realize that she is about to
attack you. Ina foul, gargling voice she sneers, ‘I’m
surprised you've got this far, Demon-Stalker, but it
looks as if your luck has just run out,’ She lunges
forward and, as you dodge the knife-blade, you
notice a tattoo on her wrist: it is the mark of Myurr
the Demon-Lord — she is a tainted servant of Chaos
and must be destroyed! You draw your sword and
fight.

CHAOS MERCENARY SkKILL8 STAMINA 10

If you kill her, you sit, panting, while many
thoughts race through your head. One thing you
have learnt time and again on your adventures is
never to draw attention to yourself. Having just
done that very thing, you decide to leave the bar
and go up to your room. Turn to 15.

146-147

146
The writing contains a Demonic curse which you
are able to negate. Unfortunately, the inside of the
Temple has been ransacked and nothing remains to
be found. Will you now go to the pond (turn to 344),
or to the Courthouse (turn to 66)?

147

Although shaken momentarily, you manage to stay
on your feet, and it is a matter of moments before
you have opened the door to the cage. The pris-
oners swarm out and kill the Orc driver. They then
give you their heartfelt thanks; they are from Dun-
ningham, which, they tell you, is occupied by the
Orcs, Goblins and Ogres of Myurr’s army. These
foul monsters burned down most of the village and
killed or imprisoned everyone they found. Afraid to
return home, the villagers leave to carry news of the
Demon Prince’s army to the settlements in the
south. Turn to 240.

148-149

148

You have discovered that your parents are not in
Crowford, so you decide to visit your friend
Sharleena the Seer who may be able to advise you.
After a few hours spent trudging along the main
road to the Northlands, you enter the Glaydon
Forest. The sound of birdsong lightens your spirits
and you make good progress. An hour or so later
the sun begins to set and night slowly falls. You are
on the point of leaving the main road and following
the winding track that leads into the Horned Hills
and Sharleena’s cottage, when you hear the sound
of a wagon approaching from the north. Of course,
it may simply be merchants or travellers. . . but you
can never be sure. Will you ride forward to meet the
wagon (turn to 368), or will you leave the main road
and head into the Horned Hills (turn to 61)?

149
For using this Talent, add 1 Evit point. Though you

become invisible, the tendrils do not relax their grip
in the slightest. The guards see your outline in the
clinging strands and wheeze with laughter. Will
you now use the MEDITATION Talent (if you can
and you want to) (turn to 133), bite one of the
tendrils (turn to 332), or press your Cross against
the living wall behind you (turn to 80)?

150-151

150
Though the narrow dirt trail is hidden by thick
undergrowth, you are able to find it by using the
Parchment found near the Blight Demons. You
dismount and lead Godsfire up the difficult hillside
track. Your feet are constantly slipping in the deep
mud, but eventually you come to a cave mouth. A
strange red light glows from within. Leaving your
horse, you creep forward. If you have the DARK
VEIL Talent, you may use it if you wish (turn to

271). If you don’t have it or choose not to use it, turn
to 281.

151
There are plenty of handholds on the side of the
building and you make good progress up to the
nearest window. Just as you are about to peer in,
the structure to which you are clinging shifts. You
reach out to obtain a firmer grip . . . but the wall
moves just out of reach. Mocking laughter echoes
round the building as you fall to the ground. Deduct
1 point from your STAMINA, If you are still alive,
will you leave this place and follow the track
through the forest (turn to 245), or do you wish to
enter through the open door (turn to 288)?

152-153

152
You enter a pink room with two doors leading from
it. Will you go through the north door (turn to 68),
or the west door (turn to 316)?

153

Colton-on-the-Marsh is aptly named, as the collec-
tion of farms and unusually well-preserved houses
is ringed by a vast, mist-shrouded bog which ex-
tends for miles around. A single tower stands,
about a quarter of a mile from the village, on an
island in the fen. It is an abandoned mill, connected
to the mainland by a long, narrow causeway of
compacted earth. As you walk into the village, you
can also discern a network of treacherous paths
criss-crossing one another over the swamp.

The colourful village square is a pleasant change
from some of the grim sights you have witnessed
during your adventure. There are a few people
about; one, a young farmhand, smiles and says,
‘Good day.’ Will you ask him where you can find

154-155

Magrand (turn to 382)? Or would you rather not
involve him, and explore alone either the eerie mill
{turn to 335) or the winding marsh paths (turn to
131)?

154
Ifyou have the SPEAK DEMONTalent, turn to 41.
If you do not have this Talent, turn to 292.

155
You try to dodge, but your foot snags in a rut. The
wagon hits you, bowling you across the road and
into the trees at the side. Roll two dice and deduct as
many points from your STA MINA score as the total
rolled. The Orc leaves you for dead, but if you are
still alive, turn to 240.

te

156

156

You accompany Tom to his farm, where you meet
his wife, Gertrude, and their teenage daughter,
Kate. They all look scared, but they seem relieved
that you have arrived to aid them. Gertrude, a large,
matronly woman, brings you a steaming bowl of
stew which quickly restores your flagging spirits.
Regain 4 points of STAMINA. You quickly formu-
late a plan and explain it to the family. There are six
entrances to the farmhouse; the family members
can each defend one, you can guard another, and
you will hang your Cross over a fifth. That leaves
one entrance unguarded — but you are sure you
are more than a match for any Skeletons that may
succeed in entering the farmhouse. Tom, Gertrude
and Kate all nod in agreement. Tom snatches up an
old axe, Gertrude a large rolling-pin, and Kate a
stout log from beside the fire. The map on the
opposite page shows the layout of the farmhouse.
Deploy Tom, Gertrude, Kate, your Cross and your-
self by marking who (or what) guards each en-
trance.

As night falls all is quiet, except for a slight rustling
of the trees in the breeze. Just as the clock strikes
midnight, the window-shutters fly open and eight
cloaked Skeletons storm the building, wielding
glowing, barbed swords. Roll one die for each Skel-
eton to determine which of the numbered entrances
it attempts to pass through. Your Cross destroys all
Skeletons which pass beneath it; Tom kills one
before being knocked unconscious; Gertrude kills

157

two, and Kate one. (So, if, say, three Skeletons
attack Kate, two of them will succeed in entering the
farmhouse and will have to be dealt with later.) Any
Skeletons you must face, you fight one ata time. As
you are defending a narrow opening, add 1 point to
your SKILL score for the duration of this part of the
combat.

SKELETONS

if you win, you must now face any Skeletons that
have entered the farmhouse (turn to 193). If none
have entered, turn to 129.

SKILL 7 STAMINA 6

157

You climb the ladder and listen at the trapdoor.
Through it you hear rough, Orcish voices and a
dull, clattering sound. Cautiously you push the
trapdoor open and peer in. Three Orcs are hunched
round a table, playing a game of dice. Across the
room is another ladder leading up to the next floor.
You step warily into the room and are halfway
across when you tread on a creaking floorboard. If
you are disguised as an Orc, turn to 170; if you are
dressed in your normal clothes, turn to 334.

158-161

158
You wait until none of the guards is looking and
then run across to the open archway on tiptoe. Test
your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 168; if you are
Unlucky, turn to 220.

159
The villagers swiftly slay the Demon and drag its
scaly carcass from your back. Turn to 338.

160

Not pausing to consider your own safety, you jump
into the river and swim towards the drowning
child. Soon you have a good grip on him and
manage to struggle back to the barge, where Gru-
mont heaves you both out of the water to safety.
The boatman cannot thank you enough, and he
gives you back the 2 Gold Pieces you had tendered
as your fare for the journey. Turn to 317.

161
Before you can do or say anything, the Demon
lurches forward and slashes its taloned hand across
Sharleena’s throat. She falls dead on the floor and
the Demon turns towards you. If you have the
HOLY CIRCLE Talent, you may draw a protective
circle round yourself (turn to 190). If you decide not
to form a HOLY CIRCLE, or are unable to do so,
you must fight the Demon.

SPIRIT DEMON

If you win, turn to 310.

SKILL 8 STAMINA 8S
162-164

162

Though the Ore does not hear you fall, you land
badly and bruise your shoulder (deduct 2 points
from your STAMINA). If you are still alive, you
pause at a nearby brook, where you splash some
refreshingly cold water over your face and head,
before following the cart at a safe distance into the
village. Turn to 153.

163
Although you may be tainted by Evil, your inherent
Goodness overcomes Myurr’s power. You grab the
bone pyramid and smash it against the far wall. It
explodes outwards, sending scorching blasts of
magical power across the chamber. if you have the
Demon-Slaying sword or Branner’s Ring, turn to
400. If you do not have either item, roll two dice and
deduct the total rolled from your sTAMINA. If you
are still alive, turn to 400; if you are dead, turn to

384.

164
Swiftly, you hurl a vial into the heart of the furnace;
cross the vial off your Adventure Sheet. Now roll one
die. If you roll an odd number, the Holy Water has
no effect. If you roll an even number, the mouth
explodes and is sealed for ever; make a note of this,
and go to face the Death-Stone (turn to 191). If the
Holy Water fails in its effect, you may either throw
in another vial, if you have one, following the same
procedure; or you may attack the mouth with your
sword (turn to 305), throw your Cross into it (turn to

165-166

27), or leave it alone and face the Death-Stone (turn
to 191).

165
The glowing, Undead form is almost upon you
when you dispel it with some carefully chosen
arcane gestures and phrases. . . but what’s this? As
it fades, it raises an imploring hand, and wails in
despair. You curse yourself for a novice when you
realize that you have just banished the ghost of
Sharleena the Seer, your friend and fellow Demon-
hunter. To appear thus, she must have had some-
thing of crucial importance to tell you. You curse
your rashness again, before settling down for the
night. In the moming you resume your journey,
and it is not long before you reach Axmoor. Turn to

339-

166
You head towards the tavern; when you reach it,
you can hear loud voices arguing inside. Will you
enter the alehouse at once (turn to 378), or stand and
listen to the argument from outside (turn to 289)?

167-169

167
You have passed through the correct door. Now
choose which door to go through next. Will you
open the Circle (turn to 389), the Heptagon (turn to
333), the Hexagon (turn to 26), the Pentagon (tum to
330), the Square (turn to 201) or the Triangle (turn
to 158)?

168

The guards fail to hear you slip across into the far
corridor. This passage does not go very far before
ending at a closed door. However, there is also a
closed wooden hatch on the floor, a few yards
ahead of you. Suddenly this lid is thrown open. You
duck into a shadowy alcove and watch as six De-
monic Servants climb up through the hatchway,
followed by a chain of morose human captives. The
Servants herd these prisoners through the door,
before closing both the hatch and the door behind
them. Will you follow the grim procession behind
the door (turn to 323) or climb down through the
hatch {turn to 385)?

169

You back out of the room as more knives fly towards
you. Roll one die to see how many knives attack
you. To deflect each knife, you must roll your SKILL
score or less on two dice. Each time you fail, you
lose 2 points from your STAMINA. If you survive,
you slam the door shut just as more knives fhunk
into it. Turn to 199.

170

170

The Orcs snap to attention and salute you. One of
them hurriedly sweeps the dice up from the table
and stuffs them into his pocket. When he realizes
that you are watching him, he shuffles his feet and
stares at the floor. Another picks up a lantern and
walks towards you. “Er. Everyfing’s fine. Nah wor-
ries, boss. ’Ere, ya’ll need this when ya check on Old
Beady.” The Orc hands you a lantern, and then
glances nervously at the other two. Obviously, they
must think that you are an officer; they are afraid
something unpleasant is going to happen to them
for gambling on duty. You look around in what you
hope is a stern and Orcish manner, and then climb
up the ladder. Turn to 253.

171-173

171

You must deduct 2 points from your STAMINA
through this surprise attack. Turning around, you
see that one of the bodies has apparently come to
life: it wields a razor-sharp dagger and its snake-like
face is split by a hideous grin. It is a cold-blooded
Demonic Shape-shifter, which has been lying in
wait for you. You must fight it,

DEMONIC
SHAPE-SHIFTER SKILL 9Q STAMINA 10

If you win, will you search the bodies (turn to 78) or
look inside the coach (turn to 257)?

172
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, tur to 276; if you
are Unlucky, turn to 296.

173
Carefully you turn the handle of the damp wooden
door and... shriek with pain. A mouth with hard,
jagged teeth has formed in the wood and bitten you
(deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA). If you are
still alive, you free your bleeding hand just as the
door swings open of its own accord. Within a dark
chamber, packed with all manner of evil devices,
stands a cadaverous-looking man clad in dark robes
and wearing a crown of bone. It is Magrand the
Necromancer. He sneers and prepares to cast a spell
at you. If youhave the DARK VEIL Talent and you
wish to use it, turn to 243. Otherwise, Test your Luck.
174-176

If you are Lucky, turn to 372; if you are Unlucky,
turn to 304.

174

With sword upraised, you rush forward and cut the
old man down. He offers no resistance — and you are
astonished to see that, as your sword cuts into him,
his robes simply fall to the ground in a heap. There
is no body! Furthermore, the caravan disappears
before your very eyes, and you experience a pecu-
liar draining sensation. You must cross one Talent
of your choice off your Adventure Sheet — you may no
longer use it. Also you must add 2 EVIL points for
your vicious attack. Confused and weary, you con-
tinue on the road north, and you have the strange
and worrying feeling that you have failed some sort
of test, Turn to 63.

175
The conjured creature offers no resistance as you
plunge your sword into its evil form. Your blow
shatters the force binding it together, and it dissi-
pates. You find yourself falling to earth. Test your
Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 57; if you are Un-
lucky, turn to 264.

176
You wait for a short while, counting the seconds so
that you can time the opening and closing of the
valve to perfection. But ail is in vain for, when you
drop into this foul gas-outlet — you die instantly.

177-178

177
You are in a blue room with three doors. Will you go
through the south door (turn to 316), the east door
(turn to 36), or the west door (turn to 247)?

178

The Skeletons peer among the trees but fail to see
you. The one searching along the road remounts its
undead steed, and the riders race towards Stanford.
Wasting no time, you return to the road leading
north. After a few minutes you hear screams. Turn-
ing around, you see that the sky over Stanford is
now glowing with a fierce red light. The Skeletons
have set fire to the village. You continue on your
way and vow to be less selfish in future.

After a short while, you make camp for the night.
However, your sleep is disturbed by troubled
dreams, and you awaken in the morning, still feel-
ing tired. Turn to 187.

179-180

179
You must fight all three Orcs at once.

SKILL STAMINA
First ORC 6 6
Second ORC 5 5
Third ORC 4 7

If you win, you notice a lantern next to the Orcs’
table. If you take it, note this fact on your Adventure
Sheet. As there is nothing else of interest in the
room, you climb up to the next floor, Turn to 253

180

Standing stil] and listening, you hear a voice say, ‘I
don’t understand it. The drug usually kills ’em, not
sends ‘em to sleep.’ Then the voices are lowered
beyond your hearing. You can either go over to your
window and listen more closely (turn to 35) or sneak
downstairs and try to surprise whoever is there

(turn to 399).

|

181-183

181
A strong Demonic presence emanates from the
3rave of your parents. It cannot possibly be your
mother and father who are in there. Will you return
70 the church, so that you can get a spade and open
up the grave {turn to 85), or leave Crowford to seek
your parents elsewhere (turn to 45)?

182
You turn from the ghastly scene of the fallen Un-
dead to see the cart that brought them here speed-
ing away on the nearby road. Its driver is a
hunchbacked Orc. Will you let him escape (turn to
357) or give chase (turn to 122)?

183

Peering over a wall, you see a group of ten Orcs
passing a wineskin around. Just as this one is
drained, an Orc emerges from a derelict building
carrying five more. The Orcs snatch these from their
companion and quickly guzzle them down. Will
you try to sneak past (turn to 172), distract them by
throwing a handful of coins among them (turn to
194}, or fight them (turn to 231)?

184-185

184
You are standing on a path in a barren plain. To the
north is a dense forest into which the track leads.
Suddenly a strange shimmering occurs, and a large
building appears in front of you. A disembodied
voice says, ‘Enter at your peril, Demon-Stalker.’
The door swings open, revealing a wood-panelled
hallway beyond. Will you enter the hall (turn to
288), climb up the outside of the building (turn to
151), or follow the track into the forest (turn to 245)?

185

The road to the north winds through a desolate
landscape which is strangely devoid of animal or
insect life: it is as if every living thing has fled the
area. Disturbed by this, you press on, knowing that
these lands are suffering under an evil blight. Just
after noon you come upon an overturned coach;
human bodies and luggage lie strewn across the
road. If you have the SENSE DEMON Talent and
want to use it, turn to 270; otherwise, turn to 342 to
continue your investigation,

186-188

186

You have to stifle a shudder of revulsion as you
grasp the veiny strands which run down the length
of the tube — they are warm and throbbing. All the
same, they support your weight, and you make
swift progress downwards. As you descend, it
grows darker and the vapours get thicker. Suddenly
a blast of hot, greenish mist rushes upwards over
your face. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to
197; if you are Unlucky, turn to 246.

187

As you make preparations for continuing on your
journey, a burly man calls out to you. ‘Good morn-
ing. Want to go to Axmoor? I'll take you there in my
barge for two Gold Pieces. All being well, we'll be
there by tomorrow morning.’ He explains that he
has stopped off in Stanford to pick up some sup-
plies; on finding the market closed, he has visited a
few farms, but has found them to be in ruins. Will
you accept his offer and follow him south to the
river (deduct 2 Gold Pieces from your Adventure
Sheet and then turn to 389); or do you prefer to take
the northerly road towards Dunningham (turn to
185)?

188
Using your DARK VEIL Talent, you gain 1 EVIL
point. You tread carefully round the Skeleton,
which continues to look down the stairs. Just as you
are passing it, the Skeleton turns and hacks at your
legs. The blow knocks you off balance and you

189-190

cumble down the stairs. Deduct 4 points from your
STAMINA. If youare still alive, you regain your feet
and manage to block a blow aimed at your head.
Obviously, the Skeleton saw you. Will you now use
the BANISH UNDEAD Talent, if you have it (turn
to 6), or attack the Horned Skeleton (turn to 329)?

189

Taking no chances, you attack. However, your
sword passes straight through her and her cloak
drops to the ground! She is gone, but, as you stare in
amazement at the empty cloak, you can hear faint
mocking laughter in the air. If you want to take the
cloak, make a note of this on your Adventure Sheet,
Now turn to 283.

190

The Demon flings itself against the barrier of your
HOLY CIRCLE, only to be repulsed in a shower
of dazzling blue sparks. ‘Your power is strong,
Demon-Stalker, but it will do you no good. My
master will consume your parents’ very being and
they shall exist in torment for all eternity.’ Unable to
harm you directly, the tall and powerful Demon
reaches up and tears a beam down from the ceiling;
then it disappears in a puff of vile black smoke. The
ceiling bulges and creaks as more beams come
crashing down, knocking the burning braziers over
Will you stay inside the HOLY CIRCLE (turn to
118), or flee the burning cottage (turn to 81)?
191-193

191
The Demonic Servants break into a mass panic and
rush about, wailing, ‘The Demon-Stalker is among
us!’ For some reason, the telepathic orders that you
know these creatures should be receiving are ab-
sent. Their master, Myurr, must be preoccupied
with other things. Grateful for this piece of good
fortune, you walk up to the quivering mass of
tangible corruption and find yourself bathed in its
black aura. Ro] one die, and add 1 to the result. If
the total is equal to or lower than your current
EVIL score, turn to 252, If the total is higher than
your EVIL score, turn to 69,

" 192
The lair of the Demons is guarded by a terrible
device: a large swinging pendulum blade, which
even now plunges deep into your forehead. Your
adventure is over.

193
The remaining Skeletons rush to attack you. If you
have the BANISH UNDEAD Talent, and want to
use it, turn to 117; otherwise, turn to 211.

194-197

194
How many Gold Pieces will you throw? Make a note
of the number, then turn to 340.

195

Summoning up all your courage and resolve, you
walk down the corridor as far as a circular chamber
with a purple floor and red walls. You are on the
point of entering the chamber when glowing red
lettering begins to form on the floor in front of you,
and three doors appear in the walls within. Will you
tread the writing on the floor (turn to 154), or care-
tully step over it into the chamber (turn to 292)?

196

The other Zombies are too slow and, once you reach
the island, they actually sink back into the marsh.
Could it be that they anticipate your meeting a
worse fate yet? You shiver nervously and turn to
face the mill. It’s a bleak tower which, built as a
windmill, was once used as a marsh warning-
beacon. It is a miracle that the crumbling, derelict
edifice still stands. . . No, nota miracle. You sense
the presence of magic. A small wooden door seems
to be the only way in. Do you want to go through it
(turn to 173), or do you prefer to look for another
entrance (turn to 349)?

197
You manage to hold your breath just in time. A
moment later, the rush of gas stops and you are able
to continue your descent. At a depth of about
198

twenty feet, you come to the end of the tube, a valve
that opens and closes at regular intervals, spewing
out clouds of foul vapour. In the side of the tube you
notice a small, dark, circular opening which seems
to lead into some kind of tunnel. Will you wait for
the valve to open and then drop down through it
(turn to 176), or crawl into the small opening (turn to
227)?

198
Guided by the light, you sneak over to the clearing
and peer through a gap in the bushes . . . to see

something that will haunt you as long as you live. A
scaly, glowing-eyed creature, adorned in peculiar
trappings, is raising its taloned hands in supplica-
tion, and its large bat-like wings flap slowly in the
cold night air. You recognize it as a Moon Demon
Mage. It stands over a stone altar sculpted with
unspeakably horrible characters. Worse still, lying
on the ornamental slab is the dead body of Magrand
the Necromancer. From the Mage’s words and ges-
tures, and from the unholy fires dripping from its
claws, you know that whatis being performed is the
forbidden Rite of Reanimation. This must not take
place, for, if it does, Magrand will become that most
tare and feared of creatures: an Abomination — no
unthinking Zombie, but a fully sentient, restored
being, fused with energies from the Demonic
Planes. Magrand would be totally indestructible -
and this you cannot allow. If you have the SPEAK‘
DEMON Talent and wish to use it, turn to 387;
otherwise turn to 104.
199-201

199
You return to the circular room. Will you now enter
the room with the weird clattering (turn to 392), the
room with the swishing sounds (turn to 308) or the
silent room (turn to 68)?

200

Dodging Calbert’s claws, you hurriedly leap on to
your horse, While the hissing Vampire rushes into
the terrified peasants, you spur Godsfire away. You
hear the ghastly screams of those unlucky souls
who are providing Calbert with his first unholy
feast. Gain 1 EVIL point for allowing this terrible
thing to happen. Will you now make your way to
Weddonbridge (turn to 249), to Colton-on-the-
Marsh (turn to 72), or to Astonbury (turn to 136)?

201
You have passed through the correct door. Now
choose which door to go through next. Will you
open the Circle (turn to 116), the Heptagon (turn to
385), the Hexagon (turn to 223), the Pentagon (turn
to 396), the Square (turn to 179), or the Triangle
(turn to 187)?

202-203

202
You fish outa gold coin and flip it across the room to
the landlord, who obliges by bringing a tankard
across to the old beggar (deduct 1 Gold Piece from
your Adventure Sheet). For the next half-hour the
ragged-looking miscreant tells you all sorts of wild
tales about the hanged man’s ghost appearing once
a month to spirit travellers away to their doom.
Tonight is the very night when it is due to come
again. You don’t believe any of his drunken bab-
blings, but they do provide some light entertain-
ment until the rascal falls asleep where he sits. You
Inay now go up to your room, if you wish (turn to
15). Otherwise, you may go and talk with either the
quiet youth (turn to 314) or the woman fighter (turn

[Oo 145).

203

The first two barrels you look in are empty. As you
peer into the third, you see a Goblin sitting in the
bottom of it. Rubbing his eyes, the Goblin looks
back at you. You could attack him — but the noise of
the fight would soon alert the other occupants of the
tower. Suddenly the Goblin reaches out and scrapes
some mould from the rim of the barrel. He stuffs it
into his greedy mouth and then settles back in the
bottom of the barrel. ‘Himm! Dinner. Very nice. Me
finish guard duty now.’ The Goblin shuts his eyes
and is soon fast asleep. You decide to leave him
alone. Will you now search the clothing (turn to
128), or climb the ladder (turn to 157)?
204-205

204
Roll one die to determine how many Zombies suc-
cumb. If you have destroyed fewer than three, you
must fight the remainder; turn to 328 and face the
remaining Zombies, starting with the third Zombie
and then, if necessary, the second Zombie. How-
ever, if your Talent banishes all three of them, turn
to 182.

205
Unbelievably, Black Jack comes to life; it leaps up at
you with an evil hiss, dark fire gleaming behind its
slitted eye sockets. Though you are knocked off
your horse by the impact, you manage to dodge the
sharp, needle-like fangs that come snapping at your
arm. However, no sooner are you on your feet, with
sword drawn, than the thing falls, lifeless. You prod
it with your blade, but it is just a scarecrow again.
Alarmed, you remount and continue on your way
towards the village. Turn to 51.

206—207

206
Your instincts serve you well — a gargoyle-like crea-
ture is about to swoop down on you from the lofty
trees above! You wait until this snarling Moon
Demon is close, before lashing out with your sword
and slicing its verminous body in two,

After another night in the wilds, you come to the
outskirts of Axmoor, Turn to 339.

207

In time you start to fear that the corridor will narrow
toa dead end, but eventually it opens out into a dull
area which can only bea dungeon. Itis a slimy room
with pulsating, membranous walls. Dozens of mis-
erable human prisoners are held in cages here,
watched over by two Demonic Servants. You must
free the captives. If you have the DARK VEIL
Talent, and wish to use it in the hope of catching the
Demons unawares, turn to 108. But if you do not
have this Talent or prefer not to use it, you must
fight them. Turn to 263.
208-209

208

You raise your sword and charge. However, the
skull uses its power of levitation to avoid your
sword strokes while it manoeuvres itself into a good
position to blast you repeatedly with its eye beams

This is going to be no ordinary duel. Test your Luck.
If you are Lucky, turn to 371. If you are Unlucky,
deduct 3 points from your STAMINA and either Test
your Luck again or run away from the cave and take
the northerly road once more (turn to 58). As long as
you remain in the cave, keep Testing your Luck until
you are either dead or Lucky.

209
The Orc nods and opens the door for you. Inside is a
filthy storeroom containing three wooden barrels
and a pile of Orcish clothing. A rough, wooden
ladder leads up to a trapdoor in the ceiling. Will you
look in the barrels (turn to 203), search the clothing

(turn to 128) or climb the Jadder (turn to 157)?

210-211

210

You grab the book and shake it frantically, hoping
for a gem to fall out. While you are thus distracted,
Myurr is able to leap upon you and rake your back
with his talons, You struggle with him and manage
to shove the book between his jaws, Myurr pumps
cack and spits the book out. Deduct 4 points from
your STAMINA and, if you are still alive, return to
398 to choose your next action.

231
You must fight all these Undead horrors at the same
ume. Each has skKILL 7, STAMINA 6. If you win,
turn to 12g

212-213

212
Confident that the trapdoor is now secure, you
climb back down the ladder. The villagers are tense
but alert. All is quiet, except for the sound of pour-
ing rain. A crash of thunder echoes round the hall
and, as it dies away, all the doors and windows
suddenly burst in. Endless hordes of frenzied De-
mons pour through the openings, their dripping
fangs eager for blood. Though the villagers fight for
all they are worth, they are soon forced to fall back
in disarray. Will you use the HOLY CIRCLE Talent
(turn to 110) or MEDITATION Talent (turn to
325)? If you cannot use either of these, or would
rather fight the Moon Demons anyway, turn to 123.

213

Having cut off the heart’s feed-supply, you have
made the best possible choice. (Make a note that
vou have turned the Red Dial on your Adventure
Sheet.) The heart judders and lurches, and the
steam-blasts grow more violent. An alarm sounds
and you are shocked to see a mouth-like split appear
in the middle of the wall, giving vent to something
horrible. Your impression is of a pitch-black, glis-
tening skin, myriad eyes and multiple appendages.
Will you wait to see what it is (turn to 30) or escape,
running back the way you came (turn to 272)?

214

214

Sharleena is willing for you to be present; she leads
you into a room decorated with colourful hangings
depicting forest animals. A golden circle is set into
the floor and a small wooden drum hangs ona hook
near by. She lights two charcoal braziers and bids
you stand by the door. Then, taking the drum, she
sits down outside the circle, and starts to tap out a
beat on it, rhythmically chanting at the same time.
After a few minutes, the smoke from the braziers
flows up to the ceiling and then drifts down into the
centre of the circle. There, it assumes the shape of a
nebulous human being with antlers sprouting from
its head. Sharleena raises her hands and asks the
spirit for news of your parents’ fate. Looking from
her to you, it replies in a deep, resonating voice:
‘They have been taken to Myurr’s tower in the
Northlands. The Demon Lord intends to use them
to further his evil plans. He needs their mortal
energies,’ It is as bad as you had feared: you must
find Myurr’s tower and free your parents before it is
too late. You ask Sharleena to find out the where-
abouts of the tower; as she asks the question,
however, the spirit solidifies and dense fumes fill
the room. When they clear, a large, red, fanged
Demon is standing ih the circle. Sharleena steels
herself. ‘Tell us, Icommand you,’ she cries, Racked
by the power of Sharleena’s command, the Demon
answers. If you have the SPEAK DEMON Talent
and wish to use it, turn to 241. But if you cannot, or
will not, turn to 383.

215-217

215
You whisper in Godsfire’s ear, instructing him to
return to the Sacred Citadel of the Templars where,
one day, you will hope to meet him once more.
Then he departs. Knowing that his road is safer
than yours, you turn your attention to the problem
confronting you. The climb is an easy one, and you
are soon back on the road, on the far side of the
force-wall. Now you begin the lengthy trek to
Colton-on-the-Marsh. Turn to 153.

216
You step into the Temple and feel an Evil curse
descend upon you. Gain 1 EVIL point and deduct 1
point from your SKILL score. The Temple has been
ransacked and, although you search it thoroughly,
you find nothing to help you. Will you go now to the
Pond (turn to 344) or to the Courthouse (tur to 66)?

217
You are able to sense that the man is not a Demon.
Indeed, you can tell that he is not evil in nature, yet
nor is he wholly good. Puzzled, you decide to stay
your hand. Turn to 42.

218-219

218

Branner looks at you, then glances behind to your
younger self. He nods and hands you the ring from
his finger (make a note of this on your Adventure
Sheet). ‘The gods protect you, Templar,’ he says.
Then he touches you lightly with his staff. . . and
you find yourself back in the room with the Pan-
demonium. Turn to 199.

219

You lash out at the skeleton with your sword, but
you only manage to rock the cage, causing the weak
rope holding it to snap. Before you know it, you are
on the ground, with the reeking cage lying on top of
you. Deduct 2 points from your STAMINA. The
skull laughs all the more at your misfortune, its mad
grin mere inches away from your face. And the
laughing only grows louder when you scramble out
from under the horrid thing and hack away at the
clattering bones through the bars. You realize then
that this has all been a waste of valuable time. You

220

remount your horse and consider the implications
of this encounter. Does more Evil lie in wait on the
road ahead, or is this just a sign that Evil haunts the
entire area? Do you want to carry on along the road

turn to §1}, or double back and take the short cut
over the fields (turn to 327)?

220
Almost immediately the Demonic Servants catch
sight of you and raise the alarm. Tendrils shoot out
trom the walls on all sides, and wrap themselves
round your body. You struggle against these tough,
veiny strands as a coiling tube oozes out of an
aperture in the wall, twists towards you and clamps
its dripping sucker-like end over your face. A blast
of gas rises from its fetid depths, knocking you
unconscious. Turn to 346.

221-222

221
Without warning, a winged, leathery Moon Demon
dives down on you from the branches high above.
You must stave off its slashing claws with your bare
hands as you have no time to draw your sword
(deduct 1 point from your sKILt for the duration of
this fight only).

MOON DEMON

If you win, you bed down for the night; in the
morning, you arrive at the outskirts of Axmoor.
Turn to 339.

SKILL 7 STAMINA 10

222

Your fears are confirmed: this is a Demon. In the
time it takes you to find this out, the Demon’s
taloned hands have stuffed you into its fang-filled
maw. The Demon has claimed your life.

223-225

223

Progress is swift as your craft rides with the current.
You enter more pleasant lands and, after a day-long
uneventful voyage, arrive at the village of Stanford.
Abandoning the raft once more, you walk into the
village. Turn to 24.

224
You climb down to the bottom of the tower and mun
into the shelter of some nearby ruins. If the tower is
on fire, you can go to the Pond (turn to 344), the
Temple (turn to 380) or the Courthouse (turn to 66).
If the tower is not on fire, you are set upon by
hundreds of Orcs. Although you sell your life
dearly, you are bound to succumb to the attacking
hordes. The forces of Evil have triumphed.

225

In abandoning the village, you have doomed its
inhabitants to a life of torment and misery — gain 2
EVIL points, After a while, you come to a fork in the
toad; you feel strangely compelled to take the road
to Axmoor. You sense that your gods are giving you
a chance to compensate for your hasty desertion of
Colton-on-the-Marsh by pitting you against some-
thing, the like of which you have never seen before!
Turn to 21.

waeye
yak
EN

Bo
£5 &
—™

. = < ms . =A e/ Us 4 =
CP ae i ea i le ; :

—
-

226

226

The Skeleton totters, then falls headlong down the
staircase. As you continue to ascend, you can hear it
clattering all the way down to the bottom. After a
short while the stairs end in a room lit by rows and
rows of candles. There is no exit from the room
other than the way by which you entered. You hear
whispering voices slowly growing in volume; they
all seem to be offering you advice: go through the
window . . . pass through the mirror. . . snuff out
the candles. You know that you must make a deci-
sion soon, as the voices are gnawing away at your
sanity; if you stay here, you will go mad. Then the
ghostly form of your brother floats up out of the
floor. His insubstantial arm points at the window,
as he mouths the words, ‘The window is the way to
Myurr.’ Will you go through the window (turn to
23) or through the mirror (turn to 398); or would you
rather snuff out the candles (turn to 238)?

227-228

227

Ignoring the small size of the tunnel, you climb in
and realize that you have made the right choice
when you hear the valve behind you open to release
a cloud of deadly gas. You crawl along in complete
darkness; the throbbing of the soft, organic tunnel
makes you feel decidedly queasy. After minutes
which seem like hours, you emerge into a corridor
which must be inside the building. When you extri-
cate yourself from the tunnel, you are surprised to
see it seal up so well that you cannot tell it was ever
there.

Now you study the passage you are in. To the nght
it is warm and wide, and to the left itis narrow and
damp. Will you go left (turn to 207) or right (turn to
101)?

228
Godsfire collapses and dies in swift torment but, by
focusing all your efforts on yourself, you are just
able to save yourself before you too collapse. When
you wake up after a deep, recuperative sleep, you
stumble through the woods in a daze until coming
upon a small village. You stagger out on to a dirt-
track and see a sign saying ‘Stanford’. Turn to 24.

229-230

229
After following the pitted and worm road for a few
hours, you hear the sound of an approaching
wagon. The crack of a whip can clearly be heard as
the vehicle rumbles towards you. This may be hon-
est travellers — but you cannot be too careful. Will
you climb a tree and hide while the wagon passes
(turn to 274), or stay where you are (95)?

230
One moment you are surrounded by a multitude of
howling, blood-thirsty Demons — and the next, they
are gone. Bright sunlight shines into the hall as
dawn breaks and the rain stops. Cheers fill the air as
the villagers celebrate the end of the longest night
they have ever known. For this good fortune you
may restore 1 LUCK point.

The villagers gather up their belongings and pre-
pare to head south. Romond asks you to accompany
them, but you refuse; you must travel north in
search of your parents. Now turn to 351.

231-232

231
Some of the Ores are so drunk that they take a few
uncertain steps and then fall flat on their faces. The
others stagger forward and loudly threaten to chop
you into little pieces. Taking advantage of the Orcs’
slowness, you back into the remains of a doorway
where you can fight them one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
First ORC 6 5
Second ORC 5 5
Third ORC 3 7
Fourth ORC iz 6
Fifth ORC 6 6
Sixth ORC 4 5
If you win, turn to 313.

232

Those long hours spent in the libraries of the Citadel
of the Templars have not been in vain. You imme-
diately recognize these two creatures as Blight
Demons: vile servants of Myurr and carriers of
death and decay. Test your Luck, If you are Lucky,
turn to 3. if you are Unfucky, you must fight them,
one af a time.

SKILL STAMINA
First BLIGHT DEMON 9 4
Second BLIGHT DEMON _ 8 6

If you win, turn to 277.

233-235

7
The remaining guards merely look on in shock
From what you know of them, you realize that they
are awaiting telepathic orders from their master.
Quickly now, will you try to destroy the worm-
furnace (turn to 356), or face the Death-Stone (turn
to 191)?

ais
When you refuse, the old wretch showers you with
insults, curses and dribble. You hastily decide that it
would be better if you sat somewhere else, You can
sit down and talk with either the quiet youth (turn
to 314) or the woman fighter (turn to 145). Or, if you
would rather, you can go up to your room (turn to

15).

235

Listening intently, you hear Myurr rasp: ‘T have the
Demon-Ssstalker’sss parentsss in my grasssp, What
better way to fashion my revenge againssst that
nated Templar than to use the old foolsss in the
Corrupt Ritual of Undoing! I shall drain their very
sssoulsss. They lurk beyond the pane, where I
mussst now return.’
236

Then it is over. The image of Myurr disappears ina
mist of repulsive vapours. You drop from your
vantage point into the chamber and surprise
Magrand, striking at him before he has a chance to
conjure up any magical protections.

MAGRAND

If you win, turn to 293.

SKILL6 STAMINA 6

236

Twelve cards are placed in a special pattern on the
table top between you and the old woman, and
there is a tense silence as she interprets their mean-
ing. At last she says: ‘All around you is horror and
danger, You may die, even lose your soul. | can
offer little advice, as my vision is barred by a
stronger power; yet, despite this interference, one
thing is clear: you must look for the Pyramid of
Bone. You will know what this means when the
time is right.’ Grumont hands you a bow! of broth
(restore 2 STAMINA points), After your meal, you
all retire for the night. Turn to 381.

237-239

237
If the name ‘Samatz’ means anything to you, turn
!o 64. Otherwise, you may argue with him (turn to
386), or use the MEDITATION Talent, if you have
it (turn to 297),

238
You quickly extinguish all the candles, plunging the
room into darkness. Not at all sure which way to gO,
you stumble about in the stygian gloom, You trip
over a candelabra and feel yourself falling through
4n opening. Roll one die: if the result is 1-3, turn to
398; if it is 4-6, turn to 23.

239

You have closed the heart’s waste-outlet. Over a
long period of time, this may poison the heart;
already the organ is reacting by beating harder.
(Make a note that you have turned the Blue Dial on
your Adventure Sheet.) An alarm sounds and a sec-
hon of the wall parts, freeing something with black,
wet skin, many eyes and numerous appendages.
Will you wait to see what itis (turn to 30) or escape,
running back the way you came (turn to 272)?

240-241

240

Dark storm clouds boil and writhe over the
Cragrock Peaks as you make your way to Dun-
ningham, Though you are filled with a sense of
foreboding, when you reach it the village looks in
surprisingly good order: the villagers go about their
business wishing you a good day as they pass by. At
the base of a stone cross sits a hooded figure; it
beckons you over. As you walk towards it, the
figure draws back its hood, revealing a strange-
looking face. This is a woman whose face is pitch-
black on one side and deathly white on the other.
Her arms reach out towards you and you can see

glowing symbols of power on her upturned palms.
Will you:

Attack her? Turn to 189
Talk to her? Turn to 347
Hold out your Cross in an attempt
to drive her away? Turn to 88
Ignore her? Turn to 283
241

Although compelled to answer, the Demon tries to
trick you by answering in its own language. For-
tunately, you are conversant with the Demon
tongue. “Lord Myurr’s tower is in the Cragrock
Peaks,’ it says. Turn to 161.
242-244
242
Will you say:
Crakanat? Turn to 209
Kragaz? Turn to 326
Shagrat? Turn to 260
243

Add 1 point to your EVIL category for using this
Talent. Magrand raises his hands to cast a mystic
bolt but then stops, uncertain, and curses: ‘Dark
Veil. Damn you, Demon-Stalker!’ He cannot bring
his magical powers to bear against you, so you
move in to attack him.

MAGRAND SKILL 5

If you win, turn to 293-

STAMINA 6

244
You walk across to Darrow. He looks from you to

the other villagers and then makes quickly for the
door. As he passes you, he whispers: ‘I can’t talk
here. Meet me at the blasted oak in ten minutes,’
Judging from the angry looks some of the villagers
give Darrow, it’s obvious that they have overheard
his message.

As Darrow leaves, one of the villagers smashes a
bottle against a table and strides towards you. Wav-
ing the bottle under your nose, he says, ‘No one’s
going to help you. Your kind’s not wanted here. Get
out before we throw you out.’ Rather than risk a
fight, you leave the tavern— only to find that a group

245

of villagers are following you. Anticipating an at-
tack, you prepare to defend yourself ... but no
attack comes. Instead, one of the villagers spits at
you and then they all hurry off into the mist. What
will you do now: visit the village priest (turn to 353),
or go to meet Darrow at the blasted oak (turn to
262)?

2.45

As you follow the track through the forest, you
catch a glimpse of a tower on a high mountain-range
and you realize that the track is leading you towards
it. Before you reach the tower, night falls with
unnatural swiftness and a chilling breeze springs
up. Tired from your journey, you collect some fire-
wood and build a small fire. The fire warms you and
you fall into a light sleep.

You are suddenly awakened by a deep rumbling
noise. Leaping up, you see a huge, scaled hand
breaking through a fissure in the earth. It is fol-
lowed by another hand, and then a monstrous head
rises from the widening abyss. The stench of sul-
phur is strong in the air as the monster's eyes fix
upon you. Will you:

Flee for your life? Turn to 46

Attack it? Turn to 331

Use the SENSE DEMON Talent,
if you have it?

Use the HOLY CIRCLE Talent to
protect yourself, if you have it? Turn to 96

Turn to 222
246-248

246
Although you try to hold your breath, you inhale
too much of the choking, stinging gas, and you pass
out. Just before total unconsciousness overcomes
you, your grip relaxes and you feel your body start
to fall. Turn to 346.

247
Stepping through the door, you enter an indigo
room with two doors. Will you go through the south

door (turn to 300), or the east door (turn to 316)?

248
Before your very eyes the Abomination mutates: its
skin splits open to reveal dozens of twitching tent-
acles which shoot out towards you, each moving as
if with a mind of its own. Even worse, the jaw of
Magrand’s dead head opens and stretches as if
unjointed or made of elastic. It howls horribly as
tentacles from its wrists wrap round your arms and
start to pull you towards the rows of jagged teeth
lining its repulsive mouth. Now itis even stronger.

ABOMINATION SKILL 10

Its current STAMINA score has not changed. If in
the course of any Attack Round the Abomination’s
Attack Strength is 5 or more points higher than
yours, turn to 54. However, if you defeat it, turn to
285.

STAMINA 13

249-250

249
The road to Weddonbridge heads westwards for
quite some time before eventually bending to the
north. As you travel further northwards, the thun-
derstorm gives way to a torrent of heavy rain. Soon
you are soaked through to the skin, thoroughly
miserable and in need of shelter.

Hills rise to your right and, if you havea parchment,
you will know ofa cave near by which you may wish
to look for (turn to the appropriate paragraph).
Otherwise, you will have to continue along the road
in the hope of finding a refuge. Turn to 58.

250
As you make your way forward, the wagon is
suddenly jolted and you lose your balance. In the
time it takes you io recover your footing, the Orc
snatches up a wicked-looking spiked mace and
attacks you. You must fight him. During any Attack
Round in which your Attack Strength is 5 or more
points higher than the Orc’s, you have succeeded in
knocking him from the cart into the road.

ORC DRIVER SKILL7

If you win the fight, or knock the Orc from the
wagon, turn to 294,

STAMINA 7

251-252

251

Once you finish your drink, you may either go to
your room for a good night’s sleep (turn to 15) or
stay in the bar and talk to some of the other guests. If
you remain in the bar, will you go over to the ragged
old man (turn to 115), the quiet youth (turn to 314),
or the woman fighter (turn to 145)?

252
Though you struggle for all your life is worth, you
succumb to the power of the Death-Stone; within
three months you are serving your Snake Demon
master as a Lieutenant of an Orcish raiding party

253

253

You reach the top floor and slide the bolt across the
trapdoor, barring it to pursuers. It won’t hold for
long against a concerted effort to break it open, but
you are grateful for any time it may gain for you.
You are at the top of the tower. A coiled rope lies
near the trapdoor; it is tied to a ring setinto the floor.
You drop the rope over the side and are pleased to
see that it reaches the ground. Looking over the
edge, you can see the devastated village of Dun-
ningham. A few hundred yards from the tower,
there is a pond with a Temple close by it. Further on
is another building which looks like a ruined Court-
house,

suddenly you hear a whirring sound: something is
moving in the middle of the tower. It is the Baleful
Eye; it has sensed your presence, and its vile gaze is
sweeping around towards you. You know that, ifits
gaze meets yours, you will be doomed. Will you
attack it with your sword (turn to 307), use the oil
from a lantern, if you have one, to set it on fire (turn
to 82}, or escape down the outside of the tower
using the rope (turn to 224)?

254-255

254

You step into a huge cave ... and are almost
deafened by the noise of loud beating. Along the
length of one wall is a bank of levers and dials
connected by two vein-like pipes to a revolting,
giant heart! The pipes, thick with gurgling evil
fluids, are only part of a sprawling mass of pumps
and valves performing unknown functions. The
roof of the cavern is similarly coated with a twisted
collection of organic, bone-bracketed tubes and
hanging tentacles. Fumes rush out of vents in
steam-like gusts, and the entire ramshackle struc-
ture looks as if pressure could make it explode at
any moment. A Demonic Servant, working at the
controls, sees you, rises and attacks. If you score
two blows against it in two successive Attack
Rounds, it is destroyed at once, irrespective of its
current STAMINA score.

DEMONIC SERVANT sKILL7 STAMINA6
If you win, turn to 309.

255
If you show him the woman’s cloak from Dun-

ningham, turn to 137. Otherwise, turn to 7.

256-257

256

As you step into the room, all the knives fly towards
you. Roll one die to determine how many knives
attack you. In order to deflect each knife, you must
Toll your SKILL score or less with two dice. Each
time you fail, you are hit by a knife and lose 2 points
from your STAMINA. If you are still alive, you may
rush over to the armour (turn to 109), or leave the
room (turn to 169).

257

Judging by the bloodstains on the seats, the Shape-
shifter must have disguised itself as one of the
passengers — they never stood a chance. On one of
the seats is a leather purse containing 12 Gold
Pieces. If you take them, add the Gold Pieces to your
Adventure Sheet. Shreds of paper are lying on the
floor. Picking them up, you see that they are pages
from a diary. Piecing them together is difficult, but
you are able to make out the following: ‘Evil stalks
our once proud village of Dunningham, and an
army approaches from the north. I fear the worst.
Many refuse to flee, but I must go. The north is no
place for peaceful folk.’

258-259

This news is depressing, yet you refuse to give up
hope. Your parents — or at least some clue as to their
whereabouts — may be found in Dunningham. Will
you search the bodies by the coach (turn to 78), or
head towards Dunningham (turn to 240)?

258

You explain to Romond that the search for your
parents must take precedence over the fate of the
villagers. Understanding your plight, he opens the
back door for you, and you dart out into the rain.
The mud is slick under your feet, but you are able to
keep your balance ... until a swarm of Moon
Demons descends upon you. As they rip at your
flesh, you flounder in the sludge, and your world
ne with pain and agony. Myurr has claimed your
ife.

239
Before the mob can lay its eager hands on you, you
turn tail and race away and eventually bolt out on to
the marsh. At first the villagers give chase but, once
you set foot on the bog, they come toa standstill and
merely look on with knowing grins. It does not take
you long to realize why they did not come after you:
the trek across the swamp is extremely hazardous.
260-261

You stumble . . . you have to double back repeat-
edly ... you get sucked into mud pits ... and
worse. You are just considering whether to go back,
when the path behind you sinks into the mire! Will
you push on, deeper into the marsh (turn to 395) or
head for the causeway that leads to the abandoned
mill (turn to 335)?

260

The Orc stares at you for a few seconds and then
shakes his head. He looks confused, but you are
sure from the look on his face that you have given
him the wrong password. Will you attempt to bribe
him (turn to 320), or attack him (turn to 106)?

261
Your aim is good. Palinn clutches the rope while
you reel itin. Grumont rushes over to help you, and
the boy is soon reunited with his father. The man
cannot thank you enough, and he gives you back
the 2 Gold Pieces you paid. You may also restore
1 LUCK point. Turn to 317.

262

262

You used to climb the old, blackened oak tree when
you were younger, so finding it in the mist is no
problem. There, you see Darrow; he is being held by
two of the villagers you saw in the tavern. The
sound of shuffling feet in the mist warns you that
there are more of them closing in round you. The
local blacksmith, a huge figure of aman, hands you
the reins of your horse. ‘For Galana’s sake, Demon-
Stalker, leave us in peace. The priest has opened
your parents’ graves; their bodies are not there.
Your parents have been spirited away by Demons.
Go and look for them elsewhere. The villagers here
are scared, and they want blood. Leave while you
can.’ Clutching their pitchforks and scythes, the
villagers step hesitantly towards you. Will you leave
(turn to 148), or will you stand and fight them (turn
to 390)?

263-265

263
The guards use only their amazingly strong hands
for weapons; you must fight them both at the same
time. If you ever score two blows against the same
opponent in two successive Attack Rounds, it is
destroyed, irrespective of its current STAMINA
score.

SKILL STAMINA

First DEMONIC SERVANT 8 -
Second DEMONIC
SERVANT 7 z

If you win, turn to 280.

264
Your fall is broken by the branches ofa tall tree, and
the earth you land on is soft and muddy. Deduct 6
points from your STAMINA, If you are still alive,
you make your way towards the nearby village.
Turn to 153.

265
Enjoying the brisk morning air, you contnue on
your journey. After a while, the dark wood gives
way to flat, grassy fields, and you reach a fork in the
road. One road branches off to the left, and the
other carries on over a log bridge spanning a wide
river. A colourfully painted barge is moored against
the near riverbank. From the boat, a burly man calls
to you: ‘Ho there! For two Gold Pieces you can
board my boat and I'll have you in Axmoor by
sunrise tomorrow. Take my advice and come with

266

me; there’s plague at Astonbury and dark evil in
Colton. You'll travel much faster and more safely by
boat. But you'll have to leave your horse behind.
There’s no room for it on board.’ You can accept his
offer, telling Godsfire to return to Roya! Lendle
(turn to 389 and deduct 2 Gold Pieces from your
Adventure Sheet); or you can refuse and ride over the
bridge (turn to 295) or along the left-hand road (turn
to 7%)

266
You erase the markings on the door, and it swings
open. You enter a black corridor with paintings of
leering Demons on the walls. Turn to 195,

267

267

The door opens and you walk through into a mist-
shrouded room. You feel yourself floating and soon
you rise above the mist into a very peculiar cham-
ber: food is laid out for a banquet but, instead of it
being set on tables, it floats in the air. Across the
room a cheerful man sits on an invisible chair.
‘Greetings, Demon-Stalker, Please make yourself
comfortable. Enjoy the food.’ Not sure what to do,
you accept his offer, but you remain wary lest he try
any tricks on you. The food tastes good and is very
nourishing. Restore 4 points to your STAMINA.

You ask him why you are here. He grins and stares
into your eyes, ‘Many reasons. The Balance is un-
certain and must be restored. Good is on the rise
and so itis time for desperate measures. The powers
of Evil cannot be allowed to wane, or the world will
stagnate and die. It is necessary that Evil be given a
helping hand by my Order, that of the Netherworld
Sorcerers. To that end, Prince Myurr of the Demons
has requested our aid to open a gate between his
plane and this one. This will restore the Balance and
allow life to continue.’

You stare at him in amazement. Everything you
have seen on your journey points the other way:
Evil is growing. The Netherworld Sorcerers must
have been tricked by Myurr!

Your host’s face grows stern and his eyes grow
hard. ‘Your role is uncertain,’ he says. ‘That you are
involved is clear, since Myurr seeks the life-essence
268

of your parents. Where do you stand in all of this,
Demon-Stalker?”’ Will you tell him that you aid the
forces of Evil (turn to 255) or that you are seeking to
destroy Myurr (turn to 386); or will you attempt to
persuade him that he is wrong (turn to 237)?

268
With an unearthly groan, the body of Magrand
lurches upright and slides off the altar. Though the
Rite was not completed, the powers of darkness
have seen fit to intervene, converting the body of
the Necromancer into a terrible Abomination. It
strikes you from behind (deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA). If you still live, you are stunned, allow-
ing the Moon Demon to break off from combat. The
Mage stands aside, cackling at your plight as you
turn to face the full horror of the Abomination. Will
you repel it with your Cross, if you have one (turn to
375); or do you prefer to attack it with your sword
(turn to 65); or, if you have the DARK VEIL Talent
and wish to use it, try to flee while invisible (turn to

49)?

269-271

269
You kick the table and it hurtles into two of the Orcs
As the third Orc looks around, you dash up the
ladder to the next floor. By the time they have
recovered, you have closed the trapdoor on them.
Turn to 253.

270

Your skin prickles as your Talent identifies one of
the dead passengers as a Demonic Shape-shifter.
The Demon leaps up, changing in a flash into its
true reptilian form, its forked tongue darting be-
tween its jagged teeth. Without pausing to think,
you bring your sword down hard on its head and it
sprawis, lifeless, on the road. You have avenged the
passengers, but they may not all be dead. Will you
search the other bodies (turn to 78) or look into the
coach (turn to 257)?

“a
For using this unholy Talent, gain 1 EvIL point. You
step quietly into the cave, where you are amazed to
see a weirdly carved stone skull floating in the air. A
strong red light shining from the skull’s empty eye
sockets darts this way and that as if searching. As it
sweeps across you, for a moment you think that it
has seen you or somehow sensed your presence,
but then it tarns away. The thing is clearly some evil
automaton and, as there are no other exits from the
cave, you can only think that the whole set-up is an
elaborate trap — the Parchment a trick! Your parents
are not here. All the same, do you want to take
272-273

advantage of your invisibility and destroy the magi-
cal skull? If so, turn to 371; but if you would rather
slip away and return to the road leading north, turn
to 58.

272
Walking down the corridor, you come to some steps
cut in the side of the wall. They lead upwards to a
closed wooden hatch. Looking further along the
corridor, you can see that the walls grow in-
creasingly narrow. Will you climb up the ladder
(turn to 364) or continue down the narrow corridor,
if you have not been this way already (turn to 207)?

273
You rush towards the bone pyramid, only to find
Myurr standing between you and it. His slitted eyes
stare deeply into yours, summoning up all the evil
acts you have committed in your life. You feel
pulled towards Myurr as he attempts to corrupt and
consume you with hate. To determine whether or
not you fail under his power, roll two dice and
compare the total rolled with your EVIL score. If the
result is equal to or less than your EVIL score, turn
to 89. If itis higher than yourEVIL score, turn to 163.

274-275

274
You climb the tree and watch in horror as a horse-
drawn wagon rounds the corner. On it is perched a
huge Ore, whipping the lathered horses with sadis-
tic glee. A wooden cage is carried on the back of the
wagon and through the bars you can see a dozen
humans, huddled together for warmth. These must
be unfortunate souls bound for Axmoor. Will you
jump down from the tree and attack the Orc driver
(turn to 250), jump down on to the back of the
wagon and try to free the captives (turn to 354), or
stay hidden until the cart has passed and then
continue your journey to Dunningham (turn to

240)?

275

The impact with the force-wall is terrific. Godsfire
slams to a halt and falls to the ground, dead, while
you are stunned and burned. However, the mo-
mentum of your charge catapults you over the top
of the barrier. You land on the other side in an
antidy heap. Roll one die and lose as many
STAMINA points as the number you have rolled. If
vou are still alive, you may now begin the long trek
<0 Colton. Turn to 153.
276-278

276
Your ploy works, and you soon leave the Orcs
behind. Turn to 313.

277

The Blight Demons fall back into the grave, where
they dissolve into a puddle of green slime. As what
is left of the Demons bubbles and hisses, the mist
clears and, with it, the oppressive atmosphere that
has plagued Crowford. You are about to leave the
graveyard when you notice an iron tube, lying in
the revolting sludge. Carefully you pick it up and
wipe it clean, then you notice a parchment rolled up
inside it. The parchment is a map, on which 1s
marked a cave. Furthermore, by the cave is written
the words: ‘Captives held here’. The cave itself is
situated in the hilly area, east of the road to Wed-
donbridge. (If you travel along this road at some
time in the future, you will be given the option to
look for the cave. You may do this by turning to
paragraph 150. Make a note of this number on your
Adventure Sheet.) For now, you have saved the vil-
lage, but your parents are still missing. You must
look for them elsewhere. Turn to 148.

278
Though you succeed in becoming invisible, you also
contrive to give yourself over to the powers of Evil
for the Jast time. Myurr has no trouble in seeing you;
when he beckons you forward with a mere twitch of
his finger, you find yourself compelled to obev.
Your adventure is over.

279-280

279
You have passed through the correct door. Now
choose which door to go through next. Will you
open the Circle (turn to 242), the Heptagon (turn to
79), the Hexagon (turn to 18), the Pentagon (turn
to 37), the Square (turn to 56) or the Triangle (turn to

327)?

280
The creatures collapse into a pile of mouldering
bones. Searching their robes, you find a set of keys
which you use to open all the cages. However, the
captives make no move to escape. You urge them to
hurry, but they don’t stir. One of them says: ‘You do
not understand. This monstrosity we inhabit is
alive. We’re here to be fed into its furnaces to
increase its power. Its influence holds us here. We
cannot leave until it has been destroyed.’ Despite all
your pleas they will not move, so you leave alone by
the sole exit, determined to put an end to this evil.

You enter a dark and narrow corridor which grows
wider and brighter, the further you go along it.
Shortly, you find steps cut into the side of a wail
leading up toa closed wooden hatch. Will you go up
these steps (turn to 364) or continue along the wide
corridor, if you have not investigated this area al-
ready (turn to 101)?

e
\*su
~

.

or)
r

hs
281-283

281

You step quietly forwards — only to stand before a
flying skull. Strangely sculpted from stone, the
bizarre automaton sees you and darts towards you;
the red glow you saw earlier comes from its eyes
and other gaps in its facial structure. In the brief
instant before it attacks you, you notice that there is
nothing else to be seen in the cave, nor are there any
other exits leading from it. The whole thing has
been a trap — you were meant to follow the Parch-
ment to your doom! You draw your sword just as
two crimson beams blaze at you from out of the
skull’s eye sockets. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 121. If you are Unlucky, turn to 5.

282
You grab your belongings and are just preparing to
bolt when the Ghost calls your name. Will you stop
and wait to see what it wants (turn to 44) or ignore
its unearthly voice and run away (turn to 83)?

283
Not wishing to get involved, you walk on into
Dunningham. As you turn a corner it is as though a
veil has been lifted from your eyes. Dunningham
has been devastated. Smoke rises from ruined
buildings and patrols of Orcs wander the streets. As
you jump back into a doorway, you feel someone
grab your shoulder. You draw your sword and
prepare to fight. ‘Peace, Demon-Stalker, it is L
Gerard. At last you have arrived.’ Once a Templar
like yourself, Gerard retired to take over the priestly

283

duties of this remote northern village. Now he looks
haggard and worn, and bloodstained bandages tes-
tify that he is far from well. Sighing, he continues.
‘Dark times are upon us. | cannot stay long, I have
done all that] can; now itis up to you. There is more
to this than at first appears. Powerful forces are at
work. You must find the pool. There many answers
lie, if only you know where to look. But beware the
Baleful Eye.’

You realize that Gerard must have been deeply
affected by his experiences, yet his words cannot be
mere ramblings. You ask him for more information.
He points to a watchtower in the centre of Dun-
ningham, and then recoils in fear as a baleful Red
Eye sweeps round the top of it and pauses, to stare
in your direction. ‘The Eye is your greatest danger;
to ignore it is to risk death.‘ Then he points west-
wards and says, ‘The pool lies that way. I must
leave.’ Gerard turns and hastens across the ruined
village. Will you follow Gerard’s directions and seek
the pool (turn to 119) or attempt to deal with the Eye
first? If the latter, you must decide whether to head
down the street (turn to 302), or clamber over the
ruins {turn to 183).

284-285

284
The chalice spills its foul contents and falls, clatter-
ing, to the floor, Myurr kicks you, sending you
flying into a wall. Deduct 5 points from your
STAMINA and, if you are still alive, return to 398 to
choose your next action.

285

You put up the fight of your life and- unbelievably
manage to cheat Myurr once more. Either the gods
must be looking kindly on you, or they have real-
zed the threat the Abomination would have posed
to the world. You are victorious and now the Moon
Demon Mage kneels, howling its rage at having
been a witness to the impossible. You seize the
Opportunity and hastily dispatch the foul creature.
Then, using the flaming, ritual braziers, you de-
stroy the Moon Demon's body and the horrible
stone altar before taking to the road once more.
Restore 2 points to your LUCK and 1 point to your
SKILL for this act of great heroism. Some miles on,
you camp for the night, and the next day come to
the village of Stanford. Turn to 24.
286-287

286

The villagers look to you for leadership. Quickly
you position them to defend the barred doors and
windows of the building. Then you settle down to
wait for the dawn to bring an end to this nightmare.
After a short while the sound of scratching can
be heard coming from overhead. Fearing that the
Demons will break in through the roof, you ask
Romond whether there is a way up to it. He points
to a dark corner, where a ladder leads up to a
trapdoor in the ceiling. You climb the ladder and
push open the flimsy trapdoor. To your horror, you
see that the ferocious Moon Demons have already
clawed away some roofing slates; they will soon be
able to smash their way through the trapdoor. You
must seal it with a magical barrier! If you have the
Holy Amulet, you may place it here (turn to 359);
otherwise you must throw a vial of Holy Water in
front of the trapdoor (deduct the vial from your
Adventure Sheet), Roll two dice. If the total is less
than or equal to your SKILL score, turn to 359. If itis
greater than your SKILL score, turn to 50.

287
Your voice is unnaturally loud as it pronounces the
final esoteric word, What happens next is beyond
description, as epic forces ripple time and space.

You wake up, flaton your back, inacircular clearing.
This is the middle of Axmoor village. The demonic
building, its tentacle roots and all the gases have
simply disappeared as if they never existed. In the

288

distance you can hear confused voices and you see
the human prisoners trying to comprehend their
newfound freedom. Myurr must, even now, be
raging at this setback to his plans. Because your
magic touched on the power of the most ancient
dark gods, you may add 2 points to your LUCKand1
point to your s$ KILL—notjust to your current scores,
but also to their Initial values. However, unless you
have the HOLY CIRCLE Talent, you must also add
1 EVIL point.

You take the road leading north and, two miles on,
come across a small stream on which floats an
abandoned raft. It looks capable of bearing you, and
the stream should bring you out to the River Mer-
ton, east of Axmoor. Will you take the raft and
journey downriver towards Stanford (turn to 223),
or follow the road north (turn to 229)?

288
Behind you, doors slam shut asa strong wind buffets
you along the hall and through a door. You find
yourself standing in your room at the Citadel of the
Templars, but somehow things are not quite right.
No matter what objects you try to pick up or touch,
your hand passes straight through them all. Three
doors lead from the room: the door to your left has a
sword marked upon it; the door to your right has a
clock face upon it; and the door in front of you has a
tower drawn upon it. Will you go through the door
with the sword (turn to 267), the door with the clock
(turn to 18) or the door with the tower (turn to 37)?

289

289
You stand outside the door and are shocked to hear
what the people inside are saying: ‘T tell you, this
curse is all the fault of that Demon-Stalker. We
didn’t have any trouble before that meddling
busybody’s parents were buried. Now our crops are
withered and our animals are dead. If you leave
Demons alone, they Jeave you alone — that’s what I
say. But that Templar has brought them upon us.’

Before you can hearany more, you feel a tap on your
shoulder. It’s Hannan, an old friend of your par-
ents. “Welcome back to Crowford — although it’s not
much of a welcome in general you'll be getting,’ he
says. “I daren’t be seen talking to you. I’msorry. .
sorry about everything that’s happened here. Go
and visit the priest. He’ll be glad to see you.’ Then
the old man hobbles off into the mist. ‘I must be
going, take good care, Demon-Stalker.’

Will you visit the priest straight away (turn to 353) or
wait until later, after you have been inside the
tavern (turn to 378)?

290-291

The gods of Luck smile on you as you work your
hands free and wriggle out of your bonds. Looking
around you, you can see three wooden barrels and a
pile of Orcish clothing: you are in a storeroom. The
only exits are the doorway you were thrown
through and a rickety wooden ladder leading up to
& trapdoor in the ceiling. Not wishing to run into
your captors again, you stay well away from the
door. Will you look in the barrels (turn to 203),
search the clothing (turn to 128), or climb the ladder
(turn to 157)?

291

Without pausing for breath, you dash away from
the mass of writhing tentacles, and hasten towards
the centre of this damned village. Glancing behind
you, you see the tentacles wrap round the width of
the barge, break it in two and pull it under the
murky waters. Though the screams of the boat
people tear at your heart, you know that there was
nothing you could do to save them, Turn to 130.

292-293

292
The writing makes no sense, so you step gingerly
over it and are relieved to find that nothing un-
toward happens. Standing in the circular chamber,
you face the three closed doors in turn. From one of
the rooms beyond you hear a weird clattering
sound. Metallic swishing noises come from the
second room, and you can hear nothing at all from
the third. Will you open the door with the clattering
behind it (turn to 392), the door with swishing
sounds (turn to 308), or the door from which you
can hear nothing (turn to 68)?

293
Magrand the Necromancer, Lord of the Undead,
Wielder of Agonies and Servant of Myurr, is dead.
And with him has perished the magic animating all
the Zombies in the swamp; they shall rise no more.
Likewise, the power holding the crumbling old mill
together has gone. The building is falling apart,
leaving you no time to search through all the
strange apparatus. However, you do grab a Potion
of Destiny as you run out through the door. You can
drink this at any time (except during combat) and it

294

will allow you to restore 4 points of Luck. Just
as you reach solid ground, Magrand’s tower, the
island on which it stands and the causeway all sink
down into the swamp with a loud rumble and an
awful sucking sound, Hearing the noise, the vil-
lagers rush out and cheer you, their liberator from
the grip of the tyrant. They ask you to remain fora
celebration, but you politely decline. All the same,
they insist upon giving you a new sword (if you do
not have one already) and 5 Gold Pieces, before
putting you upon the north road out of the village.
Turn to 11.

294

You tug on the reins and bring the horses to a stop;
next you set about freeing the prisoners. After they
have scrambled out of the cage, the grateful vil-
lagers thank you profusely. They tell you that they
are from Dunningham, where the army of the
Demon Prince is camped at present. The town has
been burned down and Ores, Goblins and warse
roam the streets, killing or capturing all the villagers
they find. With their homes destroyed, the former
prisoners decide to head for safety in the south.
Thanking you once again, they smash the hated
cage and drive off in the wagon. Turn to 240.

295-296

295

You thank the man for his offer, which you decline,
before continuing over the wide bridge. You ride
on, through the hours of darkness, into a hilly
region. The lights of a village are barely discernible
on distant high ground, and you thank the gods
that the broad road is easy to follow; were it not so,
you would soon become lost in the deep, dark
forest. Further on, you encounter a barricade of
upturned wagons and crates, built right across the
road. A dozen or so seared-looking men are hiding
behind it; they are armed with clubs and bows, and
wear scarves over their faces. At first you suspect an
ambush but, when you see the red-painted crosses,
the truth of the matter dawns upon you. The leader
steps forward and calls out: ‘Go back, stranger.
There’s plague in Astonbury. We can’t let anybody
in or out of the village. Leave, for your own sake.’
Mindful of the bows trained on you, will you do as
he asks and head back south (turn to 333), politely
refuse and ride through the barrier (turn to 91), or
make a show of leaving, before doubling back
through the surrounding woods in an attempt to
sneak past the blockade (turn to 127)?

296
Despite your efforts, the drunken Orcs catch sight
of you and stumble to the attack. Turn to 231.
297-298

297

You feel the strength of your gods flowing into you
and an aura of power springs up to surround you.
The Sorcerer takes a step back as he appraises the
situation. Unbidden words flow from your lips.
‘This one speaks the truth. The forces of Evil have
tricked you and your fellow sorcerers. Evil is on the
rise; the Northlands already lie under its influence

Unless you aid the Demon-Stalker, the whole world
will fall before the might of Myurr. The Demon
Prince has shrouded your scrying devices and
tricked you into believing that his thirst for power is
merely the righting of the Balance.’ The Sorcerer
slowly shakes his head in wonderment, then
beckons you to follow him. Turn to 348.

298

An evil Spirit Demon stands towering over
Sharleena, who is trying desperately to stem the
flow of blood gushing from her throat. She tries to
speak but only gurgles and gasps come from her
blood-stained lips. The red Demon laughs, showing
its fangs, and kicks her in the ribs. Falling, she
scrawls a crude ‘N’ in her own blood on the floor;
your parents must be to the north. Then her body
slumps, dead, and the Demon comes for you, its
blood-stained talons lunging for your throat. You
must fight it.

SPIRIT DEMON SKILL 8

STAMINA 8

If you win, turn to 310.

299-301

299
Itis fortunate for you that you actually jump into the
side of one of the larger tentacles and rebound back
on to the wharf- if you had gone further, you would
have been caught by the weird strands and killed.
Scrambling back to your feet, will you now attack
the tentacles (turn to 62), or run away (turn to 291)?

300
Two doors lead from this white room. Will you go
through the north door (turn to 247) or the east door
(turn to 47)?

301
Kremper grovels and whines his gratitude as you
sheathe your sword and rush to the stables for
Godsfire. You superintend the landlord packing his
few belongings, before you take the road to Colton-
on-the-Marsh to deal with this Magrand, and per-
haps even catch up with the Orc’s foul cart. Add 1
LUCK point for your generous deed. Turn to 76.

302-303

302
The street is strewn with rubble, allowing you to
move along it surreptitiously with little trouble.
Unfortunately, you soon reach an open square,
which you will have to cross, After watching the
Baleful Eye sweep past, you decide to make a dash
for it. You run across the square and see the Eye
turn in your direction. Choose a number between 1
and 6 and then roll one die a maximum of three
times. If you roll the number you chose, turn to 369;
otherwise, turn to 313.

303
Calbert writhes in vampiric torment as the flesh
melts from his bones, leaving only a dry skeleton
Relieved, the peasants thank you for your help and
effusively wish you well, before they begin filling in
the grave and then turning homewards. You, too,
must continue on your guest. Where will you go
now: to Weddonbridge (turn to 249}, to Colton-on-
the-Marsh (turn to 72), or to Astonbury (turn to
136)?

304-306

304

Before you even have time to raise your sword, a
spherical bolt of black sludge forms round
Magrand’s hands, and then shoots towards you.
Lose 2STAMIN A points and 1 £111 point, and Test
your Luck, Tf you are Untucky, lose 2more STAMINA
points and 1 SKILL point, and Test your Luck again
and so on, until you are either Lucky or dead. If you
are Lucky, turn to 372.

305

You hack and chop at the pallid mouth with your
sword, but to no avail. Meanwhile, the worm’s
sharp teeth bite at you, Roll one die and lose as
any STAMINA points as the number rolled. If you
are sill alive, you may either throw your Cross into
the mouth (turn te 27), throw a vial of Holy Water
Into at (turn to 164), or leave it and face the Death-
stone (turn to 191).

306
lf you possess the MEDITATION Talent and you
want to use it here, turn to 25. But if you do not have
the Talent or do not wish to use it, turn to 75.

307-308

397
You stab at the Baleful Eye with your sword and it

lets out a howl of rage. Slimy, coiled tentacles whip
out fromits base and attack you, You must fight tor
your life.

TENTACLES SKILL 7

At the end of each Attack Round, roll one die. If you
roll a 6, the tentacles wrap themselves round you
and pull you into the Eye's gaze. If this happens,
your life force is sucked out of you, killing vou
instantly, If you manage to kill the Eye, it imme
diately bursts into flames which rapidly spread
across the top of the wooden tower, consuming tin
an instant. Wasting no time, you escape down the
rope. Turn to 224.

STAMINA 10

308
Dozens of sharp knives floatin the room before you.
In the centre of the room isa suit of glowing magical
armour which, you are sure, will protect you from
Demonic enchantments. Will you enter the room
(turn to 256), or explore further (turn to 199)?

399

399
The heart is clearly part of the larger organism that
comprises the entire building. Perhaps you can
effect some harm to it from here? You go over to
study the controls. All the various levers and
switches centre round three main dials, each of
which is connected to a different and major tube.
One of the tubes throbs wildly and contains a red
fluid; another pulsates more gently and holds a blue
fluid; and the last tube, which doesn’t move at all,
holds a sickly green paste. All three go up to the
heart and are lettered in Demonic script. If you have
the SPEAK DEMON Talent, and wish to use it,
turn to 377. If you do not have, or do not wish to
use, this Talent, turn to 93.

310-312

310
As you slay the awesome Spirit Demon, it tears a
beam loose from the ceiling. The beam knocks over
the smoking braziers, scattering their contents
across the floor. The cottage begins to burn as you
rush outside. No sooner are you out of the place
than it collapses in a flurry of sparks. Sharleena’s
death fills you with remorse, and you vow to
avenge her. After saying a prayer for Sharleena’s
departed soul, you mount your horse and return to
the main road. Turn to 142.

311

Angrily seizing the rogue by the scruff of his neck,
you demand to know who he is, where he and his
Undead servants have come from, and why they
attacked you. In reply he gibbers on about his
powerful master, someone called Magrand — before
suddenly whipping out a long knife from under his
robes. The savage blade whistles towards your fore-
head. Will you roll backwards off the cart (turn to
357) or hurriedly draw your sword to try and deflect
the blow (turn to 22)?

312
You are racing through the driving rain towards the
lit building when you glance up — and see winged
creatures sweeping down towards you. From their
leathery, gargoyle-like forms they can only be Moon
Demons, fierce beasts that stalk the night in large
bands. As you knock desperately on the stout
wooden door, one of them lands on your back, and

343

the others splash down into the mud around you.
You swing your sword, but cannot reach the crea-
ture clinging to your back. You pound on the door
and yell to be letin. The door suddenly swings open
and you fall forward. Before hitting the floor, you
see a dozen or more enraged villagers rushing to-
wards you with knives and scythes upraised. Test
your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 159. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 38.

- 333

You pick your way through the ruins and soon
reach the watchtower. The Baleful Eye cannot see
you now, as you are too close to the tower, but a
more immediate threat bars your way. An Orc
stands guard at the only entrance to the watch-
tower. He sees you and shouts a challenge. ‘Hey,
Yooman. What's the password?’ Will you give hima
password (turn to 242), try to bribe him (turn to
320), or fight him (turn to 106)?

314-315

314 :

The sullen young man does not even raise his head
as you take a seat beside him. From his rough
garments, you would say that he is a farmhand. You
ask him if he would like a drink. ‘No, thank you,’ he
replies. ‘f’'m not here to drink. I'm searching for me
brother. He came up this road three months ago an’
never came back. For all I know, he may even be
dead, but I've got to find out.’ He says that a pedlar
told him that his brother had stayed in this very
tavern; however, Kremper denies any knowledge
of such a customer, Depressed, the youth does not
know what to do now. He has no more ideas and,
though you try to offer him comfort, it is clear that
he would rather be left alone. Do you now go up to
your room (turn to 15), go and talk with the old
beggar (turn to 115), or go and sit down at the table
with the woman fighter (turn to 145)?

315

You have choked the heart’s supply of liquid malev-
olence: a foul concoction brewed by Demonic
alchemists. The heart seems to flutter fora moment,
before continuing as normal. (Note the fact that you
have turned the Green Dial on your Adventure
Sheet.) Suddenly there is the wail of an alarm, and
you are horrified to see a crack appear in the wall of
veins and tubes, allowing a nightmarish thing to
ooze out. It has black, slime-covered skin, num-
erous eyes and dozens of tentacles. Will you wait to
see what it does (turn to 30) or run out, going back
the way you came (turn to 272)?

316-319

316
You are in a violet room with three doors. Will you
go through the north door (turn to 177), the east
door (turn to 152), or the west door (turn to 68)?

BL

Night falls, and you all retire to the lantern-lit cabin.
Grunton reheats the stew that you were about to eat
before the accident occurred, and Venghul tells you
some tales of their many adventures on the conti-
nent’s waterways. She then takes out a peculiar
pack of cards, adorned with a variety of impressive
pictures. They are Cards of Divination, and she
offers to peer into your future by way of thanks for
saving the boy — though, she warns you, you may
not like what she sees. Do you accept her offer (turn
to 236), or decline and go to bed for the night (turn to
381)?

318
You use your healing skills on your companions;
they are not badly injured and soon recover under
your care. You also regain 4 points of STAMINA.
Turn to 102,

1
You wait for a few moments Then, without warn-
ing, the door explodes outwards. Flying splinters
of wood cut into you; lose 3 points from your
STAMINA and turn to 298.

320-322

320
How many Gold Pieces will you offer him? Make a
note of the number, then turn to 84.

321

The villagers recognize the almost tragic error of
their ways and do all they can to make amends. You
are given a sumptuous meal (restore 4 points to
your STAMINA). While you are eating, the village
crier tells you about Magrand: ‘He’s a damned
necromancer, and one too powerful for us to deal
with. He performs endless experiments in the evil
arts and even speaks with Demons. He lives in the
old mill on the causeway, guarded by things in the
marsh: Undead creatures he sends out to wander
our streets in the hours of darkness, If onty we could
be rid of him!’ Will you volunteer to help the people
of Colton? If so, you will be given a sword {if you
need one) and taken to the causeway (turn to 335).
Otherwise, you must follow the northerly road out
of the village, much to the sorrow of the people of
Colton (turn to 225).

322

You move among the bodies, searching for any
signs of life. A sound behind you alerts you to the
fact you are not alone. You dive forward in an
attempt to dodge, but you fail to move quickly

enough. A searing pain tears across your leg. Turn
to 171.
323-324

323

You have entered the core of the building: a circular
chamber lined with veins, pipes and grasping tenta-
cles. A few Demonic Servants are attending strange
devices, while others are pushing a train of human
captives into a living furnace, shaped like a worm’s
mouth lined with sharp teeth! There must be some
mind-dulling magic at work here, as no one would
walk quietly, the way these prisoners do, towards
their doom. Mounted on a pedestal in the centre of
the room is a Death-Stone ... now you under-
stand, The building, having literally grown from
this rare and sentient artefact, is a Land-Blight

Powered by the consumption of living beings, its
sole purpose is to produce and emit foul gases
which corrupt wholesome land, in readiness for
Demonic occupation. You have already seen the
signs of a Demon army sweeping south from the
Cragrocks, clearing the way for this obscenity to be
built. Myurr must be planning an invasion—but you
know of no way by which he can import the thou-
sands of Demons, needed to make the occupation
permanent on to the Earthly Plane, Now, will you
destroy the worm-furnace (turn to 352), or ignore
the plight of the prisoners and try to deal with the
Death-Stone (turn to 191)?

324
You throw yourself to the side of the road just in
time. The wagon rumbles over the spot where you
had been standing a moment before; as it passes,
you see that it carries a cage containing at least eight
325-327

people, Their blank faces betray their resignation to
whatever fate awaits them. Although you would
like to help them, the wagon is travelling too fast for
you to catch up with it; all you can do is head for
Dunningham. Turn to 240.

325
You relax your mind and begin to slip into a trance.
However, before you can enter it fully, sharp teeth
tear into your body as the Moon Demons take
advantage of your defenceless state. You try to
shake off the trance, but it’s too late. You die a calm
— if futile — death.

326
The Orc looks confused, and you can almost hear
the mental anguish he’s going through, trying to
remember whether it is the nght password. Before
the Ore comes to a decision, you may attempt to
bribe him (turn to 320), or attack him (turn to 106).

327

Taking a tight grip on the reins, you swing off the
road and make your way across the fields. As you
draw closer to the village, the snaking, curling mist
gets thicker and thicker. A gust of wind briefly
scatters the vapours to reveal a withered landscape:
the crops lie rotting and the ground is littered with
the dead and twisted bodies of fieldmice and birds.
As the fog closes in again, you cast worriedly about,
searching for your parents — but it’s obvious that
nothing is left alive in this blighted land,

328-329

You ride on and shortly come across an old acquain-
tance, the village scarecrow that you and your
friends used to call Black Jack. Test your Luck. If you
are Lucky, turn to 205. But if you are Unlucky, turn
to 16.

328

Before fighting the Zombies, you may throw vials of
Holy Water at them, Because they are so preoc-
cupied in devouring Godsfire, this will be an easy
task to accomplish. Just decide how many vials you
wish to use and cross them off your Adventure Sheet.
Roll one die for each vial and total the numbers
rolled to find the number of STAMINA points that
the creatures must lose. You may divide the
STAMINA loss among the three in any way you like.
Once you have done this, you must fight the re-
mainder one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
First ZOMBIE 6 6
Second ZOMBIE 4 5
Third ZOMBIE 5 7

If you defeat them all, turn to 182.

329
The Skeleton grins at you and aims a blow at your
chest. You block it and then rush in to attack.

HORNED SKELETON sxILL8 STAMINA 14

If you win, turn to 226.
339-332

330
You make a sprint for cover on the side of the road
opposite the muddy ridge and leap into a ditch,
obscured by brambles. Test your Luck, If you are
Lucky, turn to 113; if you are Unlucky, tum to 149.

331
You stand your ground and prepare to do battle,
You raise your sword in defiance as the Demon
slashes at you with its taloned claws. It’s going to be
a tough fight.

GREAT DEMON

If you win, you continue on your way. Turn to 98.

SKILL i1 STAMINA 18

332

Fighting back your nausea, you grasp one of the
veiny tendrils between your teeth and bite. A
steaming liquid pours out of the wound and into
your mouth, and though you spit most of the stuff
out, you must Jose 2 points from your STAMINA. If
you are still alive, you are relieved to see that the
shock of your sudden attack has caused all the
tendrils to relax their grip. You grasp your sword
and attack the guards. Turn to 263.

333-334

333
It takes you some hours to reach the junction by the

large bridge and, as expected, by the time you get
there the barge has gone, leaving only one unex-
plored avenue. You turn off the road you are on and
lake the other route, the one heading north-west.
Turn to 71.

334
The Ores look up in surprise. One steps round the
table and walks menacingly towards you, ‘Who is
you?’ he asks. Will you;

Talk to him? Turn to 114
Attack him? Turn to 179
Kick over the table? Turn to 269

335

335
You have not travelled far along the causeway when

the surface of the swamp is broken by the emerging
heads and hands of flesh-dripping Zombies. They
rise in their dozens and make their way towards
you; some clamber on to the causeway behind you,
blocking off the village, so the only way to go is
forward. You race towards the mill, but two Zom-
bies stumble into your path. They lurch clumsily
forward as if blind, their rotted hands raking the air
before them. If you have the BANISH UNDEAD
Talent and wish to use it, turn to 87. If you do not
have this Talent or do not wish to use it, you must
fight both Zombies at the same time. However,
before fighting, you may throw a vial of Holy Water
over one of them. To do this simply cross a vial off
your Adventure Sheet and fight only the Second
Zombie; the First is destroyed by the Holy Water.

SKILL STAMINA
First ZOMBIE 7 8
Second ZOMBIE 6 7

If you win, turn to 196.

336-338

336
You push open the door and step through into a
black corridor with paintings of leering Demons on
the walls. Invisible hands clutch at your body and
tear your Cross, Holy Water and the Demon-
Slaying sword (if you have it) from your grasp. All
your Provisions are also snatched from you. Turn to

337
Fortunately, being newly undead, Calbert does not
possess the power of hypnotism. All the same, his
vicious fangs and sharp claws make hima terrifying
opponent.

CALBERT SKILL 8 STAMINA 10

If you defeat him, turn to 303.

338
Two villagers hastily bar the door and a small,
weasely-looking man helps you to your feet. For the
moment you are safe, but you cannot tell how long
the door will withstand a concerted Demon attack.

338

The man introduces himself as Romond, the head-
man of the village. ‘For three nights we’ve been
attacked by these foul Moon Demons and they have
slain many of us. Some families managed to flee,
but we do not know whether they have reached
safety or not. At first, we hoped to drive the De-
mons off, but more keep arriving all the time. Now
we have no choice other than to head south when
the morning comes. Until then, we have to survive
what remains of this night.’ You know from your
researches that normally Moon Demons cannot
enter the real world. A great rift between the dimen-
sions must have occurred to let so many through to
this place. You remember that Moon Demons can-
not stand daylight; in the morning they will return
to their own plane. Will you stay and help the
villagers (turn to 286) or continue the search for your
parents by leaving via the back door (turn to 258)?

339-340

339
What you see at Axmoor defies belief: the River

Merton is clogged with all manner of odious pollu-
tants oozing out of the village sewers; the surround-
ing woodland has been blasted beyond recognition,
leaving a barren, smoking landscape; and most of
the village’s buildings are ruined. You start to cross
a high stone bridge spanning the mighty Merton,
when suddenly a number of enormous segmented
tentacles, coated in glistening slime, rise up from
the riverbed, They wrap themselves round the
stonework and pull. You stumble as the bridge
starts to collapse. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 125; if you are Unlucky, turn to 55.

340
Rall two dice. If the total rolled is equal to or less
than the number of Gold Pieces you threw, turn to
276, If itis greater than the number of Gold Pieces,
turn to 296.

341-344

341

The villagers soon realize that they are no match for
your fighting skills, and they all run away, scared
for their very lives. As they flee, it dawns on you
that the two men who attacked you looked familiar
and you realize with horror that you have just
fought two of your childhood friends. Add 2 points
to your EVIL rating (be sure to make a note of this on
your Adventure Sheet). Overcome with remorse at
your hasty action, you decide to leave Crowford in
order to avoid any more unnecessary bloodshed.
Tum to 148.

342
Will you look inside the coach (turn to 376) or
inspect the bodies (turn to 322)?

Your youthful face looks up at you with fear in your
eyes. You have caused a rift in the continuum of
time by meeting yourself in the past. You become
caught up in an endless replay of your brother’s
death and burial.

The pond is brown in colour, and lumps of un-
wholesome sludge float on its surface. Near by is a
ruined Temple, and beyond that an abandoned
Courthouse. Will you wade into the pond (turn
to 99), go to the Temple (turn to 380), or go to the
Courthouse (turn to 66)?
345-346

345
Sharleena tells you to make yourself comfortable

and goes into the next room. Through the closed
door, you hear chanting and the beat of a drum.
After a few minutes, this stops and you can hear the
sound of muffled voices. Suddenly a high-pitched
scream rends the air. Will you wait for Sharleena to
return (turn to 319), or rush in to see what is
happening (turn to 298)?

346

When you wake up, you discover that you are in a
slimy dungeon, again made of living, heaving mat-
ter. You are standing upright against a soft warm
wall, pinned there by a multitude of tiny throbbing
tendrils which cling to your limbs, wrap themselves
across your chest, and sprawl over your face. More
conventional cages hold dozens of dejected, ragged
human prisoners. Only two creatures are standing
guard; they are Demonic Servants, animated skel-
etons in black robes. Rather stupidly, they have left
all your equipment on you. Despite the constant
tugging of the tendrils, you can just free one of your
hands. Do you use the DARK VEIL Talent, if you
possess it and wish to use it (turn to 149); or use the
MEDITATION Talent, if you have and wish to use
it (turn to 133); would you rather bite one of the
tendrils that snakes across your face (turn to 332); or
pull out your Cross and press it against the living
wall behind you (turn to 80)?

347

347
She looks at you closely. ‘Welcome to Dunningham,

Demon-Stalker. You see before you a village that is
not all it seems. However, I sense that you already
know that.’ She waves her hand and your vision
grows cloudy; when it clears, you see smoking ruins
and scenes of devastation. A wooden tower domi-
nates what remains of the village, and from it stares
a baleful Red Eye. As you watch, the gaze of the Eye
passes over the ruins like a searchlight, penetrating
even the deepest shadows. “Behold the true form of
Dunningham, and beware lest you fail again to
pierce the veil of illusion. Before you is the fate
which awaits the world. The forces of Evil are in the
ascendancy — although many would have us believe
that we live in a golden age of Goodness. As a
servant of the Trickster, my aid is never as straight
as you would wish. Listen to my advice, and ponder
it well, for it contains both truth and lies. Which is
truth and which is lie, is for you to decide.’ Roll one
die to see what she tells you. Ona roll of 1-3, turn to
74; on 4-6, turn to 34.

348

348

The Sorcerer leads you down a long, twisting cor-
ridor until you reach an iron door that is covered in
glowing runes. He touches the door and it swings
open. Inside is a glowing sword set into a stone
representation of Myurr in his toad form. The Sor-
cerer motions for you to draw the sword. ‘For
centuries I have guarded this weapon, awaiting the
time when it will be needed to defeat Myurr. My
fellow sorcerers and I have been tricked by Myurr
into aiding his foul schemes. To make amends, I
offer you the sword of Demon-Slaying. Take it and
use it to rescue your parents and defeat the Demon
Prince,’ You draw the sword and feel its power flow
through you. In any fight against Demons, the
sword will increase your SKILL score by 4 points,
even if that takes your SKILL to over 12. The Sor-
cerer now offers to try and teleport you to Myurr’s
tower in the Cragrock Peaks. If you accept, turn to
g8. If you tell him that you prefer to find your own
way to the tower, the Sorcerer grins, then gestures
at you,

You find yourself standing on a track that winds
through a forest. Turn to 245.

349-351

349
Taking all possible care, you circle the tower until

you come across the only other feasible way in, a
large hole in the rear wall. The hole is about twenty
feet above ground level, but it may be reached by
clambering up a pile of bricks that is resting against
the wall beneath it. If you would rather go back and
enter by the wooden door, turn to 173; however, if
you prefer to climb up this dangerous heap of
broken stones, Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn
to 28; if you are Unlucky, turn to 39.

350

You quickly dispatch Kremper— but then feel a pang
of remorse. No matter what evil the landlord has
committed in the past, it is up to you to set exam-
ples. Slaying Kremper is not the way to doit. Gain 1
EVIL point. Then you hurry to the stables, find
Godsfire and speed northwards in pursuit of the
Orc. Turn to 76,

351
Walking north from Weddonbridge, you observe
signs of the Moon Demon army’s passage: carnage,
decay and destruction on a massive scale. There has
to be something behind them, driving them on —
and that something must be destroyed! After a
couple of hours you feel the previous night’s action
begin to take its toll, and you realize that you
haven't slept since before you arrived in Crowford
You stop and huddle beneath a cluster of charred fir
trees. Unsurprisingly, you are also very hungry:

352

unless you eat at least one meal’s worth of Provi-
sions now, you will have to lose 2 points from your
STAMINA.

It is late in the afternoon when you reawaken.
Feeling much better for your slumber, you set out
on the northerly road once more. Two miles on, you
hear a sound like the flapping of giant wings. It
comes from somewhere off the road, obscured by a
ridge to your right. Will you stand and wait for it,
sword drawn (turn to 149) or quickly get off the road
and hide in the undergrowth (turn to 330)?

352
You race over to the captives and set about cutting
them free, but a Demonic Servant intervenes to stop
you. If you score two blows against it in two succes-
sive Attack Rounds, it is destroyed, irrespective of
its current STAMINA score

DEMONIC SERVANT skILL6 STAMINA7

If you win, turn to 233.

353

353
As you approach the church, soul-rending screams

come tearing out of the mist-carpeted graveyard.
You knock at the church door and can hear the
sound of a bar being removed from the inside. The
door opens, to reveal a scared-looking man dressed
in priest’s robes. Hurriedly he beckons for you to
enter the church. “Thank the heavens you’ve ar-
rived. Quick, come inside.’ He quickly bars the door
and, with a great effort, recovers his composure.
‘I’m Anson, the new, priest. I have sad news for you:
your parents were found, dead, in their home three
days ago. At least, at the time we thought they were
your parents — now, I’m not so sure. There was
something very strange about their appearance; the
flesh was stretched tight on their bones, and their
eyes shone with an unholy light. Because of the
suspicions I had, just this morning I opened their
grave, only to find that they had been spirited away
and their places taken by foul Demons. Ever since |
buried those creatures, an evil miasma has hung
over this village, destroying the crops and killing
the wildlife. Now, every night, at sunset, those
screams begin. You have the power to put an end to
this nightmare. You must help. I implore you.’ Will
you:

Open your parents’ grave? Turn to 85
Use SENSE DEMON, if you

can and want to? Turn to 182
Leave the village to search

elsewhere for your parents? Turn to 45

354-357

354
You leap on to the wagon just as one of its wheels

hits a large rock. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 147; if you are Unlucky, turn to 250.

355
You pull the dagger out of the table — and scream

with pain as it burns you. You drop it and kick it
across the floor. Deduct 3 points from your
STAMINA and 1 point from your sKILt because of
the pain. If you are still alive, return to 398 to choose
your next action. Lo og

356
Will you attack the fleshy, slobbering orifice with
your sword (turn to 305), throw your Cross into its
blazing maw (turn to 27), or throw a vial of Holy
Water into it (turn to 164)?

357
Cursing, you watch the cart vanish in the distance.

Then you go back and bury poor Godsfire, before
returning to the road. The Orc went in the same
direction that you were heading, so perhaps you'll
meet again. You set off, running, north-west along
the road; after a short while, you come to some
marshy flatlands and a sign reading ‘Colton-on-the-
Marsh’. Turn to 153.
358-359

358

Cobwebs cling to your hands and face as you de-
scend the steps. The sticky strands peter out after a
few feet, and you soon reach an underground
chamber containing a placid pool. A marble statue
of a woman stands at the pool’s edge. One side of
her face is black and the other white. In her hands
she holds a set of balanced brass scales which move
slightly in the faint breeze blowing down the steps.
Gruff voices and heavy footsteps echo hollowly in
the chamber — someone must have seen you enter.
You have little time. Will you wade into the pool
{turn to 53), tip the scales to the left (turn to 29), or
tip them to the right (tum to 397)?

Just as you manage to seal the trapdoor, a large
Moon Demon spreads its leathery wings and dives
towards you. You must fight it.

MOON DEMON SKILL 7

If you win, turn to 212

STAMINA 6

360~361

360
The writhing grey strands catch you in mid-air,
wrap themselves round and round your body, and
drag you, screaming, under the water, where an
indescribable fate awaits.

361

Two strong men fashion the rope into a noose and
slip it over your head. Despairingly, you beg for an
audience with the village elders. An old woman
steps forward and says: ‘There are no elders in
Colton, but I am called the wise woman. What do
you have to say for yourself?’ In an attempt to prove
that you are nota follower of Evil, you engage her in
a spiritual debate. Roll one die. If the number rolled
is equal to or less than your current EVIL score, turn
to 13; if the roll is higher, turn to 321.

362-364

362

A few miles from Stanford, you hear the sound of
approaching riders. Not wishing to be caught in the
open, you conceal yourself behind a tall oak tree.
Eight ghostly Skeleton riders on undead horses
draw up at the point where you left the highway.
One dismounts and examines the road closely. You
hold your breath and hope they will not pick up
your trail. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to
178; if you are Unlucky, turn to 132.

363
The room before you has a spiral staircase leading
upwards. Will you climb the stairs (turn to 56) or go
back through the door (turn to 68)?

364

You climb up through the hatch, to find yourselfina
short corridor. There is a closed, unguarded door to
your right, and an open archway to your left.
Beyond the arch is another open door, through
which shines sunlight. However, a trio of Demonic
Servants stand between you and this exit, their
sparkling red eyes betraying a telepathic link with
their master, Myurr. Will you turn right and open
the closed door (turn to 323), or attack the guards by
the exit (turn to 116)?
365-368

365
You have passed through the correct door. Now
choose which door to go through next. Will you
open the Circle (turn to 50), the Heptagon (turn to
15), the Hexagon (turn to 196), the Pentagon (turn
to 39), the Square (turn to 11) or the Triangle (turn to
167)?

366
Death by Demon-Plague offers the most agonizing
pains known to mankind, but it is also mercifully
swift.

367
The Orcs look puzzled. Unfortunately for you, it
doesn’t take them long to figure out that you are
bluffing. They pick up their weapons and rush to
the attack. Turn to 179.

368
Sword drawn, you urge Godsfire forward and see
an old wagon, pulled by a shabby horse, creak into
view. Two terrified-looking peasants sit at the front,
and you can hear the groans of someone in pain
coming from the back. The wagon stops and one of
the peasants calls out to you, ‘Let us pass. We have
nothing — Demons have taken all our possessions,
We beg you.’ Sheathing your sword, you ride
slowly over to them. As you get closer, a look of
relief passes over their faces. ‘Our village was at-
tacked by Demons. The north’s full of “em. One of
us is wounded, can you help?’ If you have the

wa

369

HEAL Talent, turn to 33. Otherwise, the peasants
warn you to be careful, and then they head off along
the road due south. Realizing that your parents
must be somewhere to the north, you decide not to
lose precious time visiting Sharleena, and spur
Godsfire onwards. Turn to 142.

369

The Red Eye’s gaze sweeps over you and you feel
the strength being sucked from your body. You fall
to the ground, unable to move. It is not long before
rough, hairy hands pick you up and drag you
towards the watchtower. You are pulled upright
and an ugly Orc punches you in the stomach and
leers into your face. ‘Ha. We got ya now. Yuz’ll be
feeding Old Beady soon.’ Then he throws you intoa
room at the bottom of the tower and takes all your
equipment, leaving only your clothes behind. In
any battle, deduct 1 from your SKILL score until you
find anew weapon. Before he goes, the Orc hits you
again (deduct 2 points from your STAMINA). If you
are still alive, you must try to escape. You attempt to
loosen your bonds. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 290; if you are Unlucky, Test your Luck again.
If you are Unlucky again, turn to 138. Otherwise,
turn to 2990.

370-372

370
Grumont looks on as you take a running jump back
towards the barge. The intervening tentacles grope
upwards all the more frantically. Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, turn to 299, but if you are Unlucky,
turn to 360.

371

With a loud crash your keen blade cleaves the stone
skull in two. Fragments fly in all directions as the
magic energies trapped within it escape. For a few
moments you are bathed ina peculiar glow. When it
disappears, you find yourself in possession of new
knowledge. You gain one extra Talent of your
choice. (Pick a new Talent and tick the appropriate
box on your Adventure Sheet.) Unfortunately, the
same telease of power causes the cave to quake so
violently that it starts to collapse. You cannot shelter
here, so you leave and join the road to Weddon-
bridge once more. Turn to 58.

372
A sphere of black sludge forms round Magrand’s
hands and then shoots towards you; however, you
dodge it at the last second and it splashes into the
wall behind you, splat! You don’t give him time to
cast another such spell!

MAGRAND

If you win, turn to 293.

SKILL6 STAMINA G6

373-374

373
Just as you are sitting down, you glance up and

observe a black-robed figure sneaking through the
tavern door. As Kremper leads the creature into a
back room, you can see that this is a hunchbacked
Orc. If you want to follow them into the back room,
turn to 393. But if you would rather stay and finish
your drink, turn to 251.

374
You run away from the building as fast as you can,

trying to ignore the wailing, tormented souls you
have left behind. You take the road leading north,
not even looking back once. Add 2 EVIL points for
this major defeat which has resulted from your less-
than-noble instinct for self-preservation.

Two miles from the village, you find an abandoned
raft floating on a small stream. The boat looks fit to
sail and this stream should bring you to the River
Merton east of Axmoor, Will you take the raft and
sail downriver to Stanford (turn to 223), or keep on
the north road (turn to 229)?

375-377

375
Valiany you hold the sacred artefact aloft — but

you can only watch in horror as the Abomination
reaches out, snatches the Cross from you and
crushes it to dust (erase it from your Adventure
Sheet). If you have the DARK VEIL Talent and
now wish to use it to try and flee, turn to 49.
Alternatively, if you would rather stand and fight,
turn to 65.

376
You are just pulling open the door to the coach
when you glimpse a sudden movement behind
you. In desperation you spin around, but it’s too
late. A steel blade slices into your arm. Turn to 171.

377
You have no trouble understanding the runes. Over

the Red Dial is written FEED, over the Blue Dial is
DRAIN and over the Green Dial is ADDITIVE. Do
you wish to turn the Red Dial (turn to 213), the Blue
Dial (turn to 239), or the Green Dial (turn to 315)? If
you'd rather not touch any of them, you must leave
the room by the way you came in, as there are no
other exits (turn to 272).

378-380

378
You push open the door and stride into the crowded
tavern. There are about thirty angry villagers in here
— but, when you enter, suddenly they all go quiet,
shift uneasily in their seats and stare into their
drinks. Harak, the landlord, snatches up a cloth and
begins frantically polishing a glass. You are nor-
mally more than welcome here, but today you are
made to feel like an unwanted stranger. Across the
room you notice Darrow, an old friend. While he
appears to be as uncomfortable as the others, at
least he is looking at you. Will you go over and talk
to Darrow (turn to 244) or buy yourself a drink and
try to get some information from Harak (turn to 67)?
Or would you rather leave at once and visit the
village priest (turn to 353)?

379
You have just entered a bright yellow room which

has three doors. Will you go through the south door
(turn to 47), the east door (turn to 124), or the west
door (turn to 152)?

380
The Temple once served the gods of Good and Law,
but now it is defiled by Demonic script over the
doorway. If you have the SPEAK DEMON Talent
and wish to use it, turn to 146. Otherwise, will you
enter the Temple (turn to 216), go to the pond (turn
to 344), or go to the Courthouse (turn to 66)?

381

381

In the morning, you find that the barge has reached
the outskirts of Axmoor. . . but what has happened
here? The river is caked with a green foaming crust,
the woodland has been turned into a barren, fum-
ing landscape, and many of the buildings are
charred ruins. ‘Gods!’ exclaims Grumont. ‘I had
heard rumours of a Demon army marching south
from the Cragrocks, but this . . .” Venghul advises
him not to land, but you must enter the heart of this
evil and destroy it, so you tell Grumont who you are
and something of your mission. He agrees to take
you to the wharf before returning eastwards.
Thanking him, you steel yourself as the boat enters
the smouldering ruin that was Axmoor. All is
deathly silent as you step on to the buckled planks
of the riverside jetty. The once-thriving dock is
dead.

Suddenly, the planks fly up into the air and a
number of thick worm-like tentacles writhe up out
of the water between you and the barge. Will you
race away towards the centre of the village (turn to
291), stand and fight the flailing tentacles (turn to
62), or try to jump between them, back on to the
barge (turn to 370)?

382-383

382
When you mention the word “Magrand’, the cheer-
ful youth recoils in horror. “You seek . . . Magrand?’
he gasps. Before you can think what to do next, he
runs away.

Confused, you wander aimlessly around, then sud-
denly find yourself surrounded by a band of armed
and very angry villagers, led by the youth. He
points at you and shouts: ‘There he is!’ Will you wait
for them to catch up with you, in the hope of
clearing up an apparent misunderstanding (turn to
60) or (as the roads out of the village are blocked)
beat a hasty retreat across one of the dangerous-
looking marsh trails (turn to 259)?

383
The Demon is forced to comply with Sharleena’s
command, but it tricks you and replies in its own
tongue. Unfortunately, you cannot understand
what it says. Turn to 161.

384-385

384

You fall to the floor, mortally wounded. Before you
die, you hear Myurr scream and witness him being
sucked from this plane. At the same time the robes
of the Netherworld Sorcerers drop to the floor; they
too are gone. You may have given your life, but
your sacrifice was not in vain; your actions have
saved the world. Your parents rush to your side and
make your last moments as comfortable as possible.
You tell them not to blame themselves for what has
happened, and then your spirit slips away.

385

Wary of any guards that may be around, you lift the
round hatch-cover and climb swiftly down, using
the carved hand-holds and closing the lid behind
you. You descend a short distance before dropping
to the floor of a corridor. The way to the left is wide
and fairly well-lit, but to the right the way is dark
and cramped. Will you go left (turn to 101), or nght
{turn to 207)?

386

386

The Sorcerer smiles mockingly and then passes his
hand before your eyes. The room vanishes and you
find yourself suspended in an other-worldly dimen-
sion. Before you are six strange portals, floating at
weird angles and linked to bizarre pathways. As
you watch, the portals change their position but
Tetain their shape. As you become more ac-
customed to this strange dimension, you realize
that the portals are geometric shapes: you can see a
circle, a heptagon, a hexagon, a pentagon, a square
and a triangle. In the centre hangs a glowing key,
surrounded by a sphere of energy.

You are in the prison of the Netherworld Sorcerer.
To escape, you must gain the Key to Space and open
the final portal with it. No matter how you try to
approach the glowing key, it always moves away
from you. The way to the key must therefore lie
through one of the doorways. First, make a note of
this paragraph’s number on your Adventure Sheet,
then choose a geometric door and turn to the appro-
priate paragraph number (see below). If you choose
the wrong door, you will find yourself reading a
paragraph from elsewhere in the adventure. In-
stead of following the directions given there, return
to this paragraph and choose another door. On
choosing the correct door you will turn to a para-
graph that allows you to choose the next door in the
sequence. If you choose wrongly at any time, you
must return to this paragraph and start again. You
are allowed two attempts to escape, so if you return
387

to this paragraph for a third time, you will have
failed, and will be trapped here for all eternity.
Good luck!

Will you choose the Circle (turn to 365), the Hep-
tagon (turn to 166), the Hexagon (turn to 341), the
Pentagon (turn to 118), the Square (turn to 58) or the
Triangle (turn to 312)?

387

Though the effort makes you feel physically sick,
you force your lips to pronounce the Demonic
words that will shatter the ritual once and for all
(gain 1 EVIL point). The counter-magic takes effect
instantaneously; the Abomination’s corpse is
sucked up into a magic vortex and vanishes for all
eternity. Fora moment, both you and the Mage are
stunned; you pull yourself together, however, just
as the Moon Demon, screaming pure hatred at you,
attacks with its vicious claws.

MOON DEMON MAGE SKILL6 STAMINA
If you win, tum to 144.

388-389

388

Beaten and desperate, Kremper pleads: ‘Don’t kill
me. I'll tell you everything. There’s this butcher,
this sorcerer in Colton by the name of Magrand.
Every month he pays me te drug my guests, and his
evil Ore servant takes them to be used by him in
horrible rites. He said he’d kill me if 1 didn’t co-
operate. He speaks with Demons. . . I promise I'll
never help him again. I'll move south. Please spare
me.” You may spare him (turn to 301) or put an end
to his ignoble existence (turn to 350).

You board the colourful barge, and Grumont, the
skipper, tells you to treatitas your home. He travels
with two others: his ten-year-old son, Palinn, and
Venghul, a strange old woman who watches over
you with a keen, unnerving eye.

The remainder of the day is spent sailing along the
River Merton towards Axmoor. Not long after
noon, you pass a vast expanse of marshland to the
south-east and, at sundown, Grumont sets about
making a stew. Suddenly there is a cry. Palinn has
fallen over the side of the barge into the deep and
powerfully flowing river. There’s no time for plans.

399

Will you stand and watch from the barge, hoping
that the boy can swim (turn to 17), grab the mooring
rope and throw it towards him (turn fo 92), or dive
into the river and haul him out yourself (turn to
160)?

390
Seeing your reluctance to leave, two of the villagers
make a charge at you. You must fight both of them

at the same time.

SKILL STAMINA
First ANGRY VILLAGER 5 5
Second ANGRY VILLAGER 6 5

After one round of combat, turn to 341

391-392

391

The road to Stanford continues for some miles be-
fore passing over an enormous wooden bridge
spanning the River Merton. You cross this and
continue north. Night falls, but you are still many
miles from Stanford when you see flickering
torchlight in a clearing not far from the road. Gut-
tural chanting comes from the same place, Do you
want to stop and investigate (turn to 198), or ignore
it and look elsewhere for a campsite, before continu-
ing on to Stanford in the morning (turn to 24)?

392

Across the room is a Demonic Pandemonium: a
clattering musical instrument made out of dragons’
bones. It plays-a funeral march, and you can also
hear the distant tolling of a church bell, Strange
lights ithiminate the peculiar device as the bones
pound out a relentiess beat. Will you stay and listen
to the music in the hope that it will provide you with
a clue (turn to 14), go over and inspect the Pan
demonium (turn to 420), or Jeave the room (turn to
199)?

————— ll (iC
393-394

393

You make your way stealthily across the tavern and -

are just about to enter the back room when the
curtain opens and Kremper emerges. Behind him
you can see a small square chamber with neither
doors nor windows. Though you can see kegs of ale
and racks of bottles quite clearly in it, there is no
sign of the Orc. It has vanished into thin air! The
landlord quickly draws the curtain to behind him
and asks you what you want, his finger lightly
tapping the cosh. Thinking quickly, you tell him
that you were looking for some service, but that, as
he’s acted so rudely, you won’t bother asking for
anything, He apologizes with a swarthy grin. You
may now either go up to your room (turn to 15) or
stay in the bar and try to start upa conversation with
some of the other guests. If you remain in the bar,
will you go over to the ragged old man (tum to 115),
the quiet youth (turn to 314), or the woman fighter
(turn to 145)?

394
A rustling noise from inside the house warns you

that something is lurking within. If you wish to use
the SENSE DEMON Talent, turn to go. If you
cannot or do not want to use it, turn to 139.

395-397

A little way further on, your foot catches in a sink
hole which, despite your best efforts, just will not
relax its murky grip. A gas pocket bursts near by and
its noxious fumes wash over you, making you gag
and choke. When your head clears, you find to your
horror that you are being sucked down into the bog.
The marsh has claimed another foolish victim.

396
You have passed through the correct door. Now
choose which door to go through next. Will you
open the Circle (turn to 193), the Heptagon (turn to
211), the Hexagon (turn to 279), the Pentagon (turn
to 342), the Square (turn to 229) or the Triangle (turn
to 302)?

397
The pool glows with a warm, yellow light and you
feel yourself drawn into it. Your wounds heal mag-
ically and you feel refreshed. Restore your
STAMINA to its /mtial score. The light then fades
. .and you are standing on a track ina forest. Turn
to 245.

- ee
398

398

You pass through the mirror. Before you is a scene
which sets your heart pounding. Your parents
stand, bound together, in a magical circle with
burning candles at their feet. Behind them is an oak
fable with three Netherworld Sorcerers sitting at it.
They seem to be concentrating on three items before
them: a crystal ball, a leather-bound book and a
pyramid of bones; and an ornate dagger is thrust
into the table-top. Your parents see you, but their
voices do not sound through the magical circle.

Worse still, you can make out the Demonic form of
Myurr, resting on a massive throne. Drinking from
a blood-filled chalice, Myurr laughs harshly and his
snake-like tongue slithers between his razor-sharp
teeth: ‘Greetingsss, Demon-Ssstalker. Welcome to
the culmination of all my plansss. You have come to
ressscue your parentsss, and ssso have entered my
tower of your own free will. I could not make you do
ssso by force, yet your presssence isss esssential,
ssso | have baited you here. Any sssuccesssesss you
have had on your journey have been due to my
machinationsss. Using the power of the Sssor-
cerersss, the life energiesss of your parentsss and
the power of your sssoul, [ shall open a permanent
gateway between the Demonic and Earthly
Planesss. My armiesss have cleared the way for
thisss to occur. I shall dominate you and all your
worthlesss kind.’

You thought that to open such a gate was imposs-
ible. Myurr must be stopped. To defeat him, you
398

must either slay his earthly form or discover where
he has hidden the magical gem that allows him to
remain on this plane. If you can find the gem and
destroy it, it will explode and banish Myurr, but the
explosion may also kill you.

Now you must fight. In the course of each Attack
Round you may do one — and only one - of three
things: either fight as normal, or throw one vial of
Holy Water at Myurr, or dodge him and attempt to
destroy one of the objects in the room in the hope
that it conceals Myurr’s gem. See below for further
explanation. Alternatively, you may use the DARK
VEIL Talent, if you have it, to attack Myurr under a
cloak of invisibility (turn to 278).

When fighting Myurr, only a magical weapon will
cause him to lose any sTAMINA points. If you
win an Attack Round with a normal weapon, you
neither give nor receive any damage. Moreover,
Myurr’s four arms allow him to attack twice per
round. This is like facing two opponents with the
same SKILL score, and only your first attack can
cause any damage.

MYURR SKILL 14
If you defeat Myurr, turn to 400.

STAMINA 25

If you throw Holy Water at Myurr, you must roll
two dice; if the total rolled is equal to or less than
your SKILL, you score a direct hit. Roll one die and
deduct that number of points from Myurt’s
STAMINA. If you miss, the vial is wasted. Either

399

way, Myurr is held at bay for a round and cannot
make an attack on you.

Finally, if you choose to destroy an item, you risk
being hit by Myurr. Will you attempt to destroy:

The candles? Turn to 111

The chalice? Turn to 284
The crystal ball? Turn to 77

The dagger? Turn to 355
The book? Turn to 210
The pyramid of bones? Turn to 273

399
Quietly you unlatch your door and tiptoe down the

Staircase, You enter the unlit bar, and you are
looking for a way to the back of the building when
suddenly you feel a sharp pain on the back of your
head. As you slip into unconsciousness you hear a
wheezy laugh. ‘Good girl, Bessie, good girl.’ Turn
to 9.

400

400

Myurr screams with rage as he is ripped from this
world. ‘It’sss not over, Demon-Ssstalker, I shall
return and take my revenge.’ The Demon Prince is
gone, his hold on this world broken; he has been
forced back to the Demon Plane. But you know that
this is only a temporary victory: the Demon Prince
has the power to return, and one day he will. All
you can do is remain vigilant and prepare.
However, it is not a hollow victory, for your parents
are free and you have stopped Myurr from opening
his gate to the Demon Plane. You notice that the
Netherworld Sorcerers have also disappeared. All
that remains are their three robes.

Your parents rush over to you. Overjoyed to see
you once more, they join you in giving thanks to the
gods. You have saved the world of Titan and freed
your parents. The road has been hard, but you have
done well. You have lived up to your name,
Demon-Stalker.

Also in Puffin

Steve Jackson's
SORCERY!

J: THE SHAMUTANTI HILLS

Your search for the legendary Crown of Kings takes you to
the Shamutanti Hills. Alive with evil creatures, lawless wan-
derers and bloodthirsty monsters, the land is riddled with
tricks and traps waiting for the unwary traveller. Will you be
able to cross the hills safely and proceed to the second part
of the adventure — or will you perish in the attempt?

2: KHARE — CITYPORT OF TRAPS

As a warrior relying on force of arms, or a wizard trained in
magic, you must brave the terror of a city built to trap the
unwary. You will need all your wits about you to survive the
unimaginable horrors ahead and to make sense of the clues
which may lead to your success — or to your doom!

3- THE SEVEN SERPENTS

Seven deadly and magical serpents speed ahead of you to
warm the evil Archmage of your coming. Will you be able to
catch them before they get there?

4: THE CROWN OF KINGS

At the end of your long trek, you face the unknown terror
m the Mampang Fortress Hidden inside the keep is the
Crown of Kings ~ the ultemate goal of the Sortery! epic. But
beware? For if you have not defeated the Seven Serpents
your urrival has been anticipated

Complete with all the magical spells you will need,
each book can be played either on its own or as part
of the whole epic.
FIGHTING FANTASY
Steve Jackson

The world of Fighting Fantasy, peopled by Orcs, dragons,
zombies and vampires, has captured the imagination of
millions of readers world-wide. Thrilling adventures of
sword and sorcery come to life in the Fighting Fantasy
Gamebooks, where the reader is the hero, dicing with
oo hee demons in search of villains, treasure or free-

Now YOU can create your own Fighting Fantasy adven-
tures and send your friends off on dangerous missions! In
this clearly written handbook, Steve Jackson has put to-
gether everything you need to become a successful
GamesMaster. There are hints on devising challenging
combats, monsters to use, tricks and tactics, as well as
two mini-adventures complete with GamesMaster’s notes
for you to start with. The ideal introduction to the fast-
growing world of role-playing games, and literally count-
less adventures.
THE CRETAN CHRONICLES

BLOODFEUD OF ALTHEUS
AT THE COURT OF KING MINOS
RETUEN OF THE WANDERER

John Butterfield, David Honigmann, Philip Parker

Set in the mythological world of Ancient Greece, this 3-
book epic brings an exciting historical dimension to Ad-
venture Gamebooks. YOU are Altheus, sent to avenge
the death of Theseus, your elder brothez, whose body lies
trapped in the labyrinth of King Minos. The combai sys-
tem has been extended to incorporate the concepts of
honour and shame.

OUT OF THE PIT:
FIGHTING FANTASY MONSTERS

Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone
Edited by Marc Gascoigne

From the darkest corners, from the deepest pools and
from dungeons thought only to exist in nightmares come
the Fighting Fantasy monsters - the downfall of many a
brave warrior, Two hundred and fifty of these loathsome
creatures from the wild and dangerous worlds of Fighting
Fantasy are collected here — some are old adversaries,
many you have yet to meet — each of them described in
minute detail, An indispensable guide for Fighting
Fantasy adventurers!

TITAN:
THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD
Sieve Jackson and lan Livingstone
Edited by Marc Gascoigne

You met the monsters in OUT OF THE PIT— now meet
the rest of the Fighting Fantasy world! No adventarer
should be without this essential guide — it contains every-
thing you need to know, covering the turbulent history of
the world, from its creation and. early. civilizations. —
through the devastating War of the Wizards — to the
present-day wilderness and anarchy where the delicate
balance between Good and Chaos could at any moment
be overtumed

Fantasy titles in Penguin for older readers

THE DRAGONLANCE CHRONICLES
Margaret Weis and Tracy Hickman

From the creators of Dungeons and Dragons now comes
Dragonlance, an exciting new fantasy trilogy about the
creatures of legend who threaten the destruction of the
world of Krynn

A group of long-time friends - knight and barbarian,
warrior and half-elf, dwarf and kender and dark-souled
Mage — are given the power to save the world. Join their
exciting adventures in a quest to find the True Gods and
save Krynn from endless night

1. Dragons of Autumn Twilight

A small band of unlikely heroes set out on their quest
to save Krynn from the dragons’ evil grasp. They have
hope — a blue crystal staff in the hands of a beautiful
woman ~ and they have courage. But the forces of evil
are strong...

2. Dragons of Winter Night
The darkness deepens and the companions begin a
dangerous search for the Dragon Orbs and the legendary
Dragonlance, ancient weapons of the True Gods.

3. Dragons of Spring Dawning
The dread enemy, Takhisis, the Queen of Darkness,
poisons all with her evil. Only Tanis, the leader of the
band of heroes has the will to destroy it, He must summon
all his strength, courage and faith for the ordeal which
lies ahead . .
