’ FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS

Over 12 million copies sold worldwide!

NOSMOVIZATLS

The staf of rulurship must be re

You have nochoice but to take on this mission, The

Maater of Chaos — warned by centuries of evil -

hold a Staff of Power. From his lac in the ¢tnnin

city of Kabesh, he plans to unite the forces df

and chaos and plunye Tien into. a Dark Age:

mist find him and wim na what
it

INOLSONIATINYVICGNY

Part story, part game, this is a- book in which:
beware the hero! Two dice, a pencil and an ef
are all you need. YOU decide which routes to:

which dangers to risk and which foes to figl

SOPY,) JO Tose

Coroner iliparnatanne by Ces Fulovitele

om

A PUFFIN BOOK
ISBN 0-14-034625-.’

Z SZOr'E0
PL O NGSI

PUFFIN BOOKS

MASTER OF CRAOS

Who is the Master of Chaos? He is a necromancer who seeks to
unite the forces of evil and chaos, and so gain domination over
Titan; he is an Undying One whase mind is warped by cen-
turies of evil-doing, All he needs is a Staff of Power... and
now he has one!

Amberon the wizard leaves you no choice. YOU have been
chosen to destroy the evil necromancer and regain the Staff of
Power! Perhaps he’s right— perhaps you are the one. YOU will
find out as you journey to meet the Master of Chaos.

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you need to embark on
this thrilling adventure, complete with its elaborate combat
system and a score sheet to record your gains and losses.

Many dangers lie ahead and your success is by no means
certain. Powerful adversaries are ranged against YOU ~ and
often your only choice is: kill or be killed!

Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks

1 THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP
MOUNTAIN
2 THE CITADEL OF CHAOS
3. THE FOREST OF DOOM
4 STARSHIP TRAVELLER
5. CITY GP THIEVES
6 DEATHTRAP DUNGEON
7 ISLAND OF THE UZARD KING
8B SCORPION SWAMP
9 CAVERNS OF THE SNOW WITCH
10 HOUSE OF HELL
11 TALISMAN OF DEATH
12 SPACE ASSASSIN
13. FREEWAY FIGHTER
14 TEMPLE OF TERROR
15. THE RINGS OF KETHER
16. SEAS OF BLOOD
17. APPOINTMENT WITH FEAR
18. REBEL PLANET
19, DEMONS OF THE DEEP
22. SWORD OF THE SAMURAI
21. TRIAL OF CHAMPIONS
22 ROBOT COMMANDO
23, MASKS OF MAYHEM
24 CREATURE OF HAVOC

Steve Jackson’s SORCER YI
L. THE SHAMUTANTI HILLS
2 KHARE — CITYPORT OF TRAPS

25. BENEATH NIGHTMARE CASTLE
26 CRYPT OF THE SORCERER
27 STAR STRIDER

26 PHANTOMS OF FEAR

29. MIDNIGHT ROGUE

30, CHASMS OF MALICE

31 BATTLEBLADE WARRIOR
32. SLAVES OF THE ABYSS

33, SKY LORD

34 STEALER OF SOULS

35. DAGGERS OF DARKNESS
ARMIES OF DEATH
PORTAL OF EVIL

VAULT GF THE VAMPIRE
FANGS OF FURY

DEAD OF NIGHT

MASTER OF CHAOS
BLACK VEIN PROPHECY
THE KEEP OF THE LICH-LORD
LEGEND OF THE SHADOW
WARRIORS

SPECTRAL STALKERS
TOWER OF DESTRUCTION
THE CRIMSON TIDE

a

eperesgess

5 4 &

3. THE SEVEN SERPENTS
4 THE CROWN OF KINGS

FIGHTING FANTASY — The Introductory Role-Playing Game
THE RIDDLING REAVER - Four thrilling adventures
OUT OF THE PIT - Fighting Fantasy Monsters

TITAN — The Fighting Fantasy World

THE TROLLTOOTH WARS — A Fighting Fantasy Novel
DEMONSTEALER — the second Fighting Fantasy Novel
SHADOWMASTER - the third Fighting Fantasy Novel

The Advanced Fighting Fantasy system

DUNGEONEER — An Introduction to Advanced Fighting Fantasy
BLACKSAND! — More Advanced Fighting Fantasy

Steve Jackson and fan Livingstone
present

MASTER
ot CHAOS

by Keith Martin

Iilustrated by David Gallagher

Puffin Books

PUFFIN BOOKS

Published by the Penguin Group
Penguin Books Lid, 27 Wrights Lane, London W8 5TZ, England
Pengum Books USA Inc , 375 Hudson Streel, New York, New York 10014, USA
Penguin Books Australia Lid, Ringwood, Vicloria, Australia
Penguin Books Canada Ltd, 10 Alcorn Avenue, Toronlo, Ontario, Canada M4¥ 3B2
Penguin Books (NZ) LW, 162~190 Wairau Road, Auckland 10, New Zealand

Penguin Books Lid, Registered Offices: Harmondsworth, Middiesex, England

First published 1990
57910864

Concept copyright ©) Steve Jackson and [an Livingstone, 1990
Text copyright © Keith Martin, 1950
Mlustrations copyright © David Gallagher, 1990
Map copyright © Leo Hartas, 1990
All rights reserved

Printed in England by Clays Ltd, St Ives ple
Filmset in Linotron Palatino

Except in the United States of Amenca, this book is sald subject
to the condition that it shall nol, by way of wade or otherwnse, be leal,
re-soid, hired out, or olherwise circulated without the publisher’s
puior consent in any form of binding or cover other than that in
which il i9 published and without a similar condilion includme this
condition being imposed on the subsequent purchaser

CONTENTS

Introduction
7
Adventure Sheet
22
Background
25
Master of Chaos

33
INTRODUCTION

Before embarking on your adventure, you must first
determine your character’s strengths and weak-
nesses. You use dice to work out your initial SKILL,
STAMINA and LUCK scores. On pages 22-23 there
is an Adventure Sheet which you may use to record
the details of this adventure; on it you will find
boxes for recording your SKILL, STAMINA and
LUCK scores. You are advised either to record your
scores on the Adventure Sheet in pencil, or to make
photocopies of the page for use in this adventure.

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter the
total in the sKILL box on the Adventure Sheet (so
your SKILL will be between 7 and 12).

Roll two dice. Add 12 to the number rolled and enter
the totalin the sTA MTNA box on the Adventure Sheet
(so your STAMINA will lie between 14 and 24
points).

Roll one die, add 6 to this number and enter the total
in the LUCK box on the Adventure Sheet (so your
LUCK score will be between 7 and 12).

For reasons that will be explained below, SKILL,
STAMINA and LUCK scores change constantly
during the adventure. You must keep an accurate

7
dd OO

record of these scores and of the changes to them,
and for this reason you are advised either to write
small in the boxes or keep an eraser handy. But
never rub out your Initial scores. Although you may
be awarded additional SKILL, STAMINA Or LUCK
points, these additions cannot raise any score above
its Initial value — except on rare occasions, and then
you will be instructed accordingly.

Your SKILL score reflects your swordsmanship and
general fighting expertise; the higher the better.
YoursSTAMINA score reflects your general constitu-
tion, your will to survive, your determination and
overall fitness, and your ability to withstand blows
in combats; the higher your srTAMINA score, the
longer you will be able to survive. Your LUCK score
indicates how naturally lucky a person you are.
Luck — and magic — are facts of life in the exciting
fantasy world you are about to explore!

Magic

During your adventure, you will probably find sev-
eral magic items, although you may not realize that
they are magical — and at first you may not even be
certain exactly what they do! You may be able to
purchase magic, if you have enough money to do
so. But you will not use your own spells: you are not
a wizard but a warrior, and memorizing arcane
magic is not one of your abilities!

8

Battles

You will often come across paragraphs in the book
which instruct you to fight a creature of some sort.
An option to flee may be given, but if not — or if you
choose to attack the creature anyway — you must
resolve the battle as described below.

First, record the opponent’s SKILL and STAMINA
scores in the first vacant Monster Encounter Box on
your Adventure Sheet. The scores for each creature
are given in the book each time you have an en-
counter.

The sequence of combat is then:

1. Roll two dice once for the enemy. Add its
SKILL score. This total is the enemy’s Attack
Strength.

2. Roll the two dice once for yourself. Add your
own SKILL score. This total is your Attack
Strength.

3. If your Attack Strength is higher than that of the
enemy, you have wounded it: proceed to step 4.
Hf the enemy’s Attack Strength is higher than
yours, ithas wounded you: proceed to step 5. If
both Attack Strength totals are the same, you
have avoided each other’s blows — start the next
Attack Round from step 1 above.

9

eee eee eee

4. You have wounded your opponent, so subtract
2 points from its STAMINA score. You may use
your LUCK here to do additional damage (see
below). Proceed to step 6.

5. Your opponent has wounded you, so subtract 2
points from your own sTAMINA score. Again
you may use LUCK, this time to reduce the
damage your opponent does to you (see be-
low).

6. Make the appropriate changes either to the
enemy’s or to your ownsSTAMINA score (and to
your LUCK score if you used LUCK- see below).

7. Begin the next Attack Round (repeat steps 1-6).
This sequence continues until the STAMINA
score of either you or the creature you are
fighting has been reduced to zero. (death).

Fighting More Than One Creature

If you come across more than one adversary in a
particular encounter, the instructions on that page
will te you how to handle the battle. Sometimes
you will have to fight them all together; sometimes
you will fight each one in turn.

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either in
battles or when you are in a situation when you
could be either Lucky or Unlucky (details of these
are given on the relevant pages), you may call on
yout LUCK to make the outcome more favourable.

20

But beware! Using Luck is a risky business and if
you are Unlucky, the results could be disastrous.

The procedure for using your LUCK is as follows:
roll two dice, If the number rolled is equal to or less
than your current LU Ck score, you have been Lucky
and the result will go in your favour. If the number
rolled is higher than your current LUCK score, you
have been Unlucky and will be penalized.

This procedure is known as Testing your Luck. Each
time you Test your Luck, you must subtract 1 point
from your current LUCK score, whether the out-
come is successful or unsuccessful! You will soon
come to realize that the more you rely on your
LUCK, the more risky this will be.

If things go so badly that your Luck is reduced to 1
or 0, you will automatically be Unlucky whenever
you are forced to Test your Luck. So, be careful how
you use it!

Using Luck in Battles

On certain pages of the book you will be instructed
to Test your Luck, and you will then be told the
consequences of your being Lucky or Unlucky.
However, in battles you always have the option of
using your LUCK either to inflict a more serious
wound on a creature you have just wounded or to
minimize the effects of a wound the creature has
just inflicted on you.

If you have just wounded the creature you are
fighting, you may Test your Luck as described above.

11
If you are Lucky, you have inflicted a severe wound
and you may subtract an extra 2 points from the
creature’s STAMINA score (so that your blow de-
ducts a total of 4, rather than the usual 2, points).
However, if you are Unlucky, the wound was a
mere praze and you must restore 1 point to the
creature’s STAMINA Score (i.e. instead of the blow
reducing your enemy’s STAMINA by 2 points, it
reduces it by only 1 point).

If your adversary has just wounded you, you may
Test your Luck to try and minimize the wound. If you
are Lucky, you have managed to avoid the full force
of the blow and may restore 1 point to your own
STAMINA (i.e. instead of the creature’s blow
causing 2 points of damage to your STAMINA itis
reduced by only 1 point). If you are Unlucky, then
you have taken a more serious blow and you must
subtract 1 extra point from your STAMINA.

Remember that you must subtract 1 point from your
current LUCK score each time you Test your. Luck.

Restoring Skill, Stamina and Luck

Skill

Your SKILL score will not change much during the
adventure. Occasionally a page may give instruc-
tions to increase or decrease your SKILL score. A
Magic Weapon may increase your SKILL — but re-
member that only one weapon can be used at a time!
You cannot claim two sk1Lv bonuses for carrying
two Magic Swords. Your $KILL score cannot exceed
its Initial value unless you are specifically instructed
to the contrary.

Stamina and Provisions
Your STAMINA score will change a lot during your
adventure as you fight enemies and undertake ar-
duous tasks. As you near your goal, yoursTAMINA
score may get dangerously low and battles may be
particularly risky, so be careful!

A backpack can hold enough Provisions for up to
twelve meals — you cannot carry more than this.
When you begin your adventure, you will not owna
backpack, and you will have to find the money to
buy one, otherwise you will not be able to carry food
for more than four meals with you! You may rest
and eat at any time except when fighting, but you
may eat only one meal at a time. Eating a meal

¥3

restores 4 points to your STAMINA. When you eata
meal, add 4 points to your current STAMINA score
and deduct 1 from your Provisions on your Adven-
ture Sheet. A separate Provisions Remaining Box is
provided on your Adventure Sheet for recording de-
tails of Provisions. Remember that you have a long
way to go, so use your Provisions wisely! Remem-
ber too that your STAMINA Score may never exceed
its Initial value unless you are specifically told so on
a page.

In the course of this adventure you will often be told
that you must eat a meal, either during a long
journey or because you have performed some very
strenuous activity. When you get such an instruc-
hon, you must deduct 1 from your Provisions if you
have any. If you have no Provisions left, you will
have to deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA for
going without food! Eating a meal when you are
told that you must do so does not restore any lost
STAMINA — it merely prevents further STAMINA
loss through hunger and starvation!

Luck

Your LUCK score will go down during the adven-
ture as you Test your Luck, but additions to your
LUCK score will be awarded when you have been
especially fortunate. (Details are given, when they
occur, in the pages of this book.} Remember that, as
with sKILL and STAMINA, your LUCK score may
never exceed its Initial value unless you are specifi-
cally instructed to the contrary.

14

Equipment

This adventure is an unusual one, for you will start
with absolutely nothing beyond the clothing you
stand up in! You have no food, no equipment, no
weapon - only your native wit and Skills (see below)
to help you. You will have to get hold of the equip-
ment you need by cunning and ingenuity during
the adventure! Finding the money to get properly
equipped is an essential part of this adventure, and
you must keep careful] track on your Adventure Sheet
of Treasure spent to buy the items you need so
Dadly — and record these in your Possessions Box.

{f you enter into combat without armour and a
weapon, you will be penalized. If you lack armour
and a shield, you must deduct 2 points from your
SKILL when fighting, for you are an easy target to
hit! Of course, as soon as you obtain a suit of leather
armour and a shield, this penalty no longer applies.
Likewise, without a sword you can only use your
fists to fight with; if you land a punch on an oppo-
nent, you will do only 1 point of damage, as op-
posed to the 2 points you can inflict with a sword; if
you use LUCK to increase the effectiveness of a
punch and you are Lucky, the damage is doubled to
2 points (not to 4, as it would be if you were using a
sword). If you are Unlucky when you Test your Luck
fighting without a weapon, your blow will glance
off and do no damage at all!

15

NO)

Skills

You are a seasoned and accomplished adventurer
and you possess advantages over most warriors —
one of the reasons why you have been asked to
undertake the desperately perilous adventure
ahead of you! Therefore you have certain Skills
which reflect this experience and ability. Do not
confuse Skills with SKILL. SKILL is a measure of
your fighting prowess, as explained earlier. Skills
are the more limited — but still very useful! — abilities
and talents which you have learnt over the years.
You may choose the three Skills you would like your
character to have, out of the six listed below. This is
a totally free choice; pick any three you want — but
no more than that! The Skills are explained briefly
below. (In certain situations you will be asked
whether you have a particular Skill, and you will
soon learn how different Skills affect your chances
of success. However, each description below is
adequate for you to choose which Skills you wish to
select.) Each time you play the adventure, you are,
of course, free to choose any Skills you like, so you
can play heroes with different Skills if you want to!
Now read through the descriptions of the Skills
available and make your choice: when you have
decided on the three you want for your character,
record them in the Skills Box on your Adventure
Sheet.

16

ACUTE HEARING: If you have this Skill, you are
able to pick up faint sounds much more easily than
most people can. You may be able to overhear
fragments of whispered conversation and hear
those sounds behind doors which can give you
valuable clues about what may be lurking behind
them!

ANIMAL WISDOM: This Skill gives you a natural
feeling for, and understanding of, animals. If you
possess it, you will be able to ride common beasts
like horses and camels better than most, and you
may be able to understand why the animals you see
on your travels are behaving in the way they do -
which at times may give you important clues!

BLINDSIGHT: This Skill allows you to fight effec-
ively in darkness (at night, for example), and you
have superior night vision. Usually, if you cannot
see, you will have to fight at a major disadvantage;
but with this Skill you are able to sense your enemy
moving around and can strike at him more effec-
tively than most warriors could!

CLIMBING: With this Skill, you are adept at climb-
ing rock faces and scaling walls and heights. You
have a greater chance of completing such climbs
successfully — and you may be grateful for having
this Skill, should a fast escape across the rooftops
become necessary!

MOVE SILENTLY: If you have this Skill, you are
a veteran at sneaking past people or monsters that
vou might prefer to avoid! This Skill gives you a

17

better chance of getting past guards, of avoiding
alerting distracted or sleeping creatures, and so on.
Of course, it doesn’t always work; for example,
moving silently across sand is not at all tricky, but
moving silently across a glade strewn with thin dry
twigs would be extremely hazardous!

TRACKING; This Skill endows you with the abil-
ity to track creatures and people by following their
footprints (or hoofprints, or whatever), a spoor,
subtle clues, and gives you a dash of some ‘sixth
sense’ which just lets you know where someone or
something has gone. Again, it will not always be
possible for you to track even with this Skill -
tracking a Jarge creature across sand is easy, but
tracking someone in a bustling city is almost im-
possible. With this Skill, however, you will almost
always have a better chance of pursuing a quarry!

18

Notoriety

In order to lay your hands on the equipment you so
badly need for the later stages of your adventure,
you will find yourself getting involved in certain
activities that may alert the militia of the unpleasant
city you will soon be visiting. Since this city, Ash-
kyos, is a vile place where the militia don’t bother
themselves much about minor infringements, you
may get away with this — up to a point. Your
NOTORIETY starts at zero; you are anonymous in
the town you are visiting. However, if you are
caught infringing the law of the land, you will soon
gain NOTORIETY points (you will be instructed
about this in the relevant paragraphs). The auth-
orities in Ashkyos take an unpleasant interest in
foreigners who make themselves conspicuous, so
achons which draw the attention of the public to
you will also increase your NOTORIETY and may
get you into trouble sooner or later.

When your NOTORIETY score totals 8 points or
more, you must leave town and set out on the
dangerous trek ahead of you in pursuit of your
quest; you may not stay in Ashkyos any longer. This
will be a pity: the longer you can stay in the town,

19

the more money you may be able to make, and the
more valuable the equipment you can amass! So
think twice before doing illegal things — but, above
all, don’t get caught! You will be kept fully informed
about NOTORIETY as the story develops, so don’t
worry about the details for now; just bear in mind
that you will need to be careful about the ways you
try to make money in the disreputable place you will
shortly be visiting!

Hints On Play

Your journey will be perilous and you may well fail
in your mission at your first attempt. Make notes
and draw a map as you explore — this map will be
invaluable in future sorties and will enable you to
progress more rapidly to unexplored regions. You
will find it particularly helpful to keep notes of
places visited and people (and perhaps creatures)
you have met on your travels.

Not all areas contain treasure: some merely contain
traps and inhabitants which you will no doubt fall
foul of. You may make wrong turnings during your
quest and, while you may indeed progress through
to your ultimate destination, it is by no means
certain that you will find what you are searching for.

20

Be very cautious about Testing your Luck unless the
page tells you that you must do this! Generally,
when it comes to fights you should Test your Luck
only to keep yourself alive. Don’t Test your Luck for
causing extra damage to your enemy unless this is
really necessary! LUCK points are precious!

The paragraphs of this book make no sense if read in
numerical order. It is essential that you read only
the numbered paragraphs you are instructed to
read; reading other paragraphs will only cause con-
fusion and lessen the surprise and excitement dur-

ing play.

The one true way to success in this adventure
involves minimizing risk - any player, no matter
how weak his or her Inifial dice rolls, should be
able to battle through to final success and glory.

May the luck of the gods go with you on your
adventure ahead!

21

SKILL STAMINA LUCK Bene Skilf= Skill=
Initial lieitial initial Stanitw- Stamina= Stamina=
Skill= Staminee Luck =
>i | Skit. Skill= Skill=
POSSESSIONS TREASURE Stinting= Stamina= Stamina=
/ —i
>
PROVISIONS cine Skill = Skill =
Stomina= Stamina= Siamina=
;
;
NOTORIETY
— sAiti= Skill= Skili=
= —_ | Stuneitta= Stamina= Stamina=
SKILLS NOTES
;
= _

=a

BACKGROUND

A conclave of wizards is a rare event for a warrior —
even one of your talents — to be invited to; but here
you are, intrigued by their summons. Finding them
gathered round the deathbed of a venerable Great
Wizard suggests that matters of great moment must
be afoot!

‘It was an Astral Slayer. The spell to ward it away
takes so long to cast, and we had not expected it
.. ~ The old wizard’s chest convulses with a rack-
ing cough, and he weakly spits blood into the bowl
held out to him by the healers. ‘We have failed. . .’
and his voice fades away into another spasm of
coughing.

The younger wizard puts his hand on the fevered
brow, lined with age, and murmurs words of conso-
lation. ‘It could not have been foreseen. Such a
thing has not been known for scores of years.’

‘Yet the Staff has been taken! If only we had pos-
sessed the power to destroy the infernal thing. Now
it is surely in the hands of someone of great power
and evil — who else could want such a thing?’

— — ~

25

The grey-robed healer holds the old man’s hand
and bids him rest. The effort of talking seems to
have drained the sorcerer for, with a few inaudible
words, his head slumps back on to the pillow and
his eyes slowly close.

You leave the sickroom with the younger wizard,
both silent for a few moments. ‘That man was the
foremost of our fellowship, my greatest teacher,’ he
confides, ‘and his power was as a candle ina strong
wind, pitted against the evil that opposes us. That
Staff has to be regained. It is a Staff of Rulership, one
of the old Staffs of Power; in the wrong hands, it can
be used to unify the forces of evil and chaos that are
usually divided against each other. Any power
strong enough to send an Astral Slayer is also strong
enough to use the Staff to that end. The havoc such
a mage could wreak is unimaginable.’ The wizard’s
manner, and the urgency with which you have been
summoned to the inner council of the wizards, tells
you that he is not exaggerating.

‘But if this is an affair of great magic, why have you
sent for me? I’m only a warrior.’

26

‘Only? Are there not giants who speak of you with
fear?”

‘Well . . . possibly,’ you agree, taken aback by this
outburst.

‘And then, there was also the matter of that fire-
breathing Great Wyrm a few years back, was there
not?’ Amberon the wizard adds tartly. You plead
that you had enjoyed some good fortune in that
tiumph, but Amberon has made his point. ‘We
cannot send a wizard to recover the Staff. The man
who now has it would sense the approach of a
magician long before he could ever get near it. It has
to be a warrior.’

You don’t have a reply ready for that comment, but
at least you do have a query for this wizard who
seems to have everything arranged for you. ‘So you
must know who has it?’

Amberon nods. ‘We know where it is, too.’
‘Well, that’s something,’ you agree.

‘That depends on how you look at it. It’s in Khul.’
The land of Chaos; the Dark Continent, home to
grim-faced men of evil nature, sorcerous horrors,
monstrosities of warped Chaos. This is hardly re-
assuring. ‘In Kabesh, to be exact. A ruined city
swarnung with monsters and the Undead.’

27

‘Oh, wonderful,’ you reply drily, ‘I think I’ve heard
enough.’

But Amberon grabs you by the arm and won't let
you make for the archway which leads to the out-
side. ‘Two scryers nearly died to find out that much.
They aren’t going to have taken that risk for
nothing. And anyway, while the Staff is in Khul,
don’t think for a moment that you or anyone else
will be safe from its power anywhere on Titan.’

His look tells you with complete certainty that he is
not deceiving you. You will not be able to ignore this
problem.

‘Your passage has been arranged. You'll travel on
the Diablo, a nasty little vessel under the command
of Captain Shagrot. He is a criminal, a liar, and a
sadistic bully . . . about the only sort of man who
would set sai] for Khul nowadays. Of course, you
won't be able to travel as a warrior; that would
arouse suspicions at once. You are going to be
press-ganged tonight and shipped out as a galley-
slave on the night tide. We have arranged this.’

You cannot believe your ears. ‘T absolutely refuse,’
you blurt out.

28

—

‘T don’t think so,’ Amberon says coolly. “Take it as a
tribute to your resourcefulness and reputation that
we consider that only you will have a fighting
chance under these circumstances. Surely I have
already made the importance of this task obvious.’
Amberon grips your arm with a greater strength
than you would have believed this slim young man
possessed. ‘The Staff has to be retrieved. If you
refuse, a weaker man will have to go in your place;
and, before long, Shanzikuul will overrun this land.
Then you will be dead in any event.’

The wizard’s remorseless logic and powerful per-
suasion win you over; grimly you agree to accept
this quest. Itis going to be the most challenging one
of your eventful life!

‘When you get to Ashkyos, you'll have to slip away

29

ess... a

from the ship. That shouldn’t be too difficult — by
then the crew will be as drunk as lords. But you'll
have to find a way to equip yourself with armour,
enough food and a weapon, and either have some
gold for a passage by riverboat up the Ashen River,
or make your way to Kabesh some other way.
How you get that money is up to you — but we can
give you a headstart.’ One of the other wizards
hands you over a pair of dilapidated boots. These are
going to help? you think. But Amberon takes them
and deftly twists ‘the bootheels. Inside each is a
small depression containing a single gold piece. He
shows you how to twist the heel to reveal the secret
cavity, and how to seal the bootheel again. ‘These
will buy you enough food to keep you alive, for a
few days at any rate,’ he says. ‘One more thing I can
tell you: about the man — if he is aman-—who has‘the
Staff. We have found out that he is a wizard, as we
feared; his name is Shanzikuul. Oddly enough, at
one time long ago there was a very powerful and
evil wizard of the very same name who allied him-
self with the Dark Elves. He and his warped Elven
followers were captured and slain by a huge band of
wildmen who flayed and quartered the wizard and
then watched as the vultures picked his bones
clean. All that happened some three hundred years
ago ... and our magical scrying leaves us in no
doubt that this is the same man who now has the Staff of
Rulership. A wizard of such powers, and with this
terrible relic to wield! You must overcome him and
return the Staff to us. This will give you some idea of
the gravity of the problem.’

30

After further feeble protestations, you are forced to
fall in with their plans. Hoping desperately that the
meagre amount of money you have in your boot-
heels will be enough to keep you alive when you
land in Khul — if you manage to get that far - you
walk out into the night, down to the docks where,
feigning drunkenness, you await the blackjack blow
on the back of your head, and waking up, a galley-
slave, aboard the Diablo. . .

Turn to paragraph 1.

3

|

wi

| Nh)

—- —————

vy Thy

ayy;

as

1

You have spent untold days as a galley-slave on the
infernal Diablo. You are given only watery slops to
eat, not enough to maintain your strength; deduct 3
points from your STAMINA score. You are kept
chained to the benches of the galleys, and you
cannot move far. The smell of bad food and sweat is
overpowering on the cramped slaver.

This morning, the Second Mate—a repulsively ugly,
warty Orc — is ina filthy temper and is taking it out
on the slave sitting next to you. The Orc is lashing
out with his whip at poor defenceless Ramon, with
whom you have formed a friendship. Will you stay
quiet and ignore this (turn to 375) or try to stop the
Orc’s brutal flogging (turn to 62)?

2
lf you have the Acute Hearing Skill, turn to 96. If
you haven’t, turn to 208.

The man disappears before your very eyes!

Now you must think carefully and act quickly. You
have up to thirty seconds’ respite to perform a
certain number of actions. You could eat a hasty
meal (if you have no Provisions, there is food on the
table) — this will take the full thirty seconds. Alter-
natively, you could drink a Potion if you have one
(each Potion you drink will take ten seconds to
swallow); you could employ a magical Luck ring
if you have one (this too will use up ten seconds);

4

or you could draw a charge from a magic item if
you have one (ten seconds consumed per charge
drawn). If you prefer, you could rush across to the
table and gulp down a goblet of wine; this will take
ten seconds to do, but it will also give you back 4
points of STAMINA. A final option is to leaf through
a magical book if you have one, in the hope of
finding something useful to read; if you do this (and
it will occupy the full thirty seconds), divide the
number in the title of the book by 3, then go to the
paragraph which also has this number. After you
have decided on your course of action and have
spent your free time wisely, turn to 68.

The ruins of Kabesh contain several noteworthy
landmarks; you may care to make a sketchmap of
the area. You may visit each area only once — unless
you are specifically instructed to the contrary in a
later paragraph —so make a note of each of the areas
as you visit them. You will not learn or find any-
thing on a second visit which you haven’t already
discovered first time around, so return visits are
pointless. After selecting one location, you will be

5-6

referred back to this paragraph to select another
place to visit. If after visiting all the locations you
still have not found the entrance to the Chaos Pits of
the Master of Chaos, your mission has failed and
Your adventure ends in disappointment and frus-
‘ration!

The areas within the ruins, with compass notations
ror position, are:

Ruined Senate House (NW) Turn to 42

Ruined houses (W) Turn to 155
Old Temple (SSW) Turn to 321
Mausoleum (5) Turn to 109
Warehouses (SE) Turn to 146
Ruined Coliseum (ESE} Turn to 356
Nomad camp (E and NE) Tum to 398

5
if you've been to the docks before, turn to 262. If this

is your first visit here, turn to 104.

6
Carrying on until nightfall, you finally stumble
upon a hollow where a small pool of fresh water is
fed by an underground spring. You gulp down all
you can; regain 2 STAMINA points. However,
during this day you must eat two meals,

Your next day is uneventful, but the vultures
circling above you in the skies are looking increas-
ingly hopeful. If you have the Ring of Endurance,
the heat will not harm you; but if you do not, you
must deduct 3 points from your STAMINA because

SSS... =
7

of the harsh and oppressive heat. During the day,
you must again eat two meals. You settle down toa
weary sleep. Turn to 341.

You make your purchase, and Jesper immediately
commandeers the eggs and snuggles down, cover-
ing them. ‘Let’s just sit in the sun for a while, shal]
we,’ he says, as if nothing unusual was going on!
What sort of creature is this?

Jesper tells you all about his past, and his many
masters, most of whom were hunters or sages or
nomad chiefs, and you don’t learn anything con-
cerning your present quest from him. But you do
learn that Jesper likes biting the heads off snakes,
and you become quite engrossed in your conversa-
tion with him. People stop and stare at such a weird
sight; add 1 point to your NOTORIETY.

You only realize that time has been passing when
Jesper shifts uncomfortably and then gets up. ‘Not
really my sort of habit, but I think we could make

8-11

some gold here,’ says the mongoose airily, and you
see that his body-warmth has hatched the eggs. Out
of the broken shells emerge two small chicks, al-
ready covered in brilliant multi-coloured plumage
and chirping in glorious, melodic voices! People are
stopping to admire them — and suddenly you are
getting offers for them, as men and women produce
purses and start offering you gold! You sell the
chicks for 10 Gold Pieces the pair. Jesper looks
pleased as you pocket this (add it to your Treasure).
Turn to 193.

8
The grateful mercharit rewards you with 4 Gold
Pieces for your efforts. Turn to 394.

9
if you have fought a Gladiator, turn to 314. If you
haven't, turn to 208.

10
You must Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to
359. If you are Unlucky, turn to 112.

11
An invisible ally is helping you! This is now a three-
way fight. Each Attack Round, roll dice for all three
of you; the combatant with the highest Attack
Strength is the one who will cause damage that ©
Attack Round (your unseen helper has a sKILL of
10). The Necromancer continues to strike only at
you! If the Necromancer is slain, turn to 197.

/
12-15

12

You can’t get away — you are trapped in a back-alley
by two militiamen armed with broadswords and
wearing evil, smiling faces! Fight them one at a
time.

SKILL STAMINA
First GUARD 7 7
Second GUARD 8 6
If you win, turn to 271.
13

You lose 4 STAMINA points on account of the
baking heat of the pitiless sun. If this reduces your
STAMINA to zero or below, the vultures won’t go
hungry tonight! If you are still alive, turn to 329.

14

You feel very out of place here and, just as you are
thinking of getting up to leave, a steward comes up
to you and says politely that one of the guests in the
place has had far too much to drink and needs a
bodyguard to escort him home. You will be paid for
carrying out this little task, of course! ‘You, ah, look
the sort of fellow who might be used to doing this
sort of thing,’ the liveried lackey says with a slightly
contemptuous expression. Will you accept the job
(turn to 184) or decline it (turn to 242)?

15
At the approach of the snake, your camel starts to
rear, but you master it and force it to gallop away,

16-17

leaving the snake to lie in wait for other prey. Witha

sigh of relief, you continue your journey. Turn to
183.

16
You find a pouch containing 5 Gold Pieces on the
body, so you take this. You are very wary of taking
anything else from such a creature, but you never
know, he might have something else of value... .
turn to 179.

17
Looking around, your attention is caught by an ill-
tempered, ugly man kicking a mongoose which he
has on a leash; the little animal is trying to evade his
blows. You move up, hoping to shame the brute
into stopping his abuse of the little creature, which
he does.

18

He turns to you and spils on the ground. ‘Little
swine!’ he says, aiming a half-hearted kick at the
mongoose. ‘Supposed to be trained, innit? Does
tricks, I were told. Won’t do no tricks fer me.’
Suddenly his eyes are full of that ‘could this stranger
be gullible?’ look. ‘Want to buy the little fleabag fer
three Gold Pieces? You could make a big tasty pie
out of ‘im, and ‘is skin could make you a fair pair of
sloves.” If you have the Animal Wisdom Skill, turn
to 144. If you don’t, turn to 249.

18

You return to the house, but there is no one inside
it, However, in the sand outside there do appear to
be footprints which are definitely not your own.
Roll two dice; if you have the Tracking Skill, you
must subtract 2 from the number rolled, but if you
do not have this Skill, you must add 2 to the number
rolled. If the new total is less than or equal to your
SKILL, you may follow the trail to another house:
turn to 30. If the total is greater than your SKILL,
vou cannot follow the trail and must search
elsewhere: turn to 4.

19-20

a9

You are well into the deserted lands south of Ash-
kyos now, travelling through scrubland. The
wretchedly poor soil supports only the hardiest of
plants, and a few garishly coloured insects buzz
round them. You feel sleepy under the hot sun -
and perhaps this explains why you are nearly taken
unawares by the small, yellow-banded green snake
which darts out from a cluster of rocks! Its pearly,
venom-dripping fangs are a deadly menace, belying
its small size. Do you have Jesper with you? If you
do, turn to 283. If you do not, turn to 223.

20
Searching the tunnel is as futile as searching the
arena. There seems to be nothing here — and even if
there was, you’d never find it below all this sand.
The effort of struggling through the deep sand
drains your strength — you must eat a meal now.
After this you leave; turn to 4.

21

21

You mutter a few embarrassed words about not
slaying helpless creatures in cold blood, and the
Dark Elf nods in agreement. Your surprise that an
undoubtedly evil creature should share your opin-
ion is interrupted as he says, ‘I myself am not
without honour in such matters. We follow dif-
ferent paths, Man; I serve Evil, and you do not. But,
by strange circumstance, I find myself in your debt.
Although I may have to kill you in days to come, it
will be by a fair fight. As for now, I owe you this —’
and he takes from a leather pouch a small golden
flask. This is a single Potion of Healing. When you
drink it (which you can do at any time except during
combats), you will regain 5 STAMINA points. The
Dark Elf also points to an intricately decorated
Bronze Bracelet left by one of the men. You may
take both Potion and Bronze Bracelet; add them to
your Possessions. The Dark Elf heads for the door.
‘One last piece of advice. We have an enemy in
common: Vardrath the Necromancer. I shall be
dealing with a couple of his thugs tonight. For your
part, seek out the Gambling Hall. The Gnomes
there are servants of his; they will probably invite

22

you to help them in a little expedition if you show
yourself to be friendly towards them. Go with them,
and you will meet Vardrath. Kill him. That way,
when we meet again, we shall not have that des-
picable carrion-raiser to dea] with afterwards.’

Then the Dark Elf is gone, silent and dark as the
night itself. You can either head for the Gambling
Hall (turn to 311) or decide that it is time to call it a
day and find somewhere to sleep (turn to 27).

22
You back ,away from the giant Kraken, but the
venomous Captain is more than a match for the
monster! With a few swift strokes from his scimitar
he severs the tentacle, then helps his men chop off
the others that are attacking the ship. Soon the
Kraken is dead — but the Captain isn’t finished yet.
Evilly, he eyes you with his one good eye, his black
eyepatch concealing the scarred pit where the other
once lay. His malicious parrot squawks gleefully,
‘Keel-haul the landlubber! Keel-haul the scurvy
scum!’ and the Captain agrees that this would be
suitable punishment for a seaman who wouldn’t
help his Captain. With your wrists and ankles
bound, you are soon gasping for air as you are
dragged under the Diablo’s barnacled keel, every
inch of movement an agony as your exposed flesh
scrapes across the rough surface. Deduct 4 points
from your STAMINA. You are hauled up from the
sea and thrown back in the galleys, in chains. Turn
to 191.

23-25

23

Strolling into the Warehouse district, you see com-
ing towards you a young lad carrying a small sack;
he is running, flat out, away from a red-faced
merchant and two heavily-built labourers who are
pursuing him. ‘Stop, thief!’ screams the perspiring
merchant. The boy certainly looks nimble and quick
enough to elude his pursuers, but you could stop
him. Will you apprehend the thief (turn to 218) or
ignore what is going on as the boy runs right in front
of you (turn to 57)?

24

You search carefully until finally you find what you
have been seeking. There is a trapdoor in the floor
below some packing cases — unfortunately, one of
them falls on you and you must deduct 3 points
from your STAMINA. Opening the trap cautiously,
you can just make out a set of stone steps leading
down; an unmistakable stench of corruption and
Chaos rises up, to catch in your throat and nostrils.
Turn to 290.

25
After a fitful night's sleep, you wake to a grey, wet
day, so you stay, resting, in your cabin. Roll one die.
If you roll 1-3, turn to 221. If you roll 4-6, turn to
254.
Lh ‘ = =
(‘er >

a nO —___________
26-29

26
If you haven’‘t been to the Old Quarter before, turn
to 337. If you have been here before, and you have
met a Necromancer, turn to 101. Otherwise, turn to

i
If you are willing to pay 1 Gold Piece for bed and
breakfast, turn to 220. If you are too mean (or are
unable) to pay this, turn to 175,

28
You sleep peacefully in the nomad camp, safe from
any night horrors which may be prowling the Chaos
Wastes. Regain 3 STAMINA points. Turn to 399.

29

The Zoalinth stops in its tracks as it sees the amulet.
‘Servant, servant,’ its twin heads gurgle. It gestures
you towards a door which it was guarding. It seems
to believe that the amulet proves that you are a
friend! You can decide to attack it anyway, if you
want to (turn ta 296), or you can head for the door
{turn to 382).

30-31

30

You enter the house as quietly as you can. A
shadow seems to be moving down the wall beside a
set of steps that lead down to a cellar. Cautiously
vou follow the steps down. The cellar is cool and
dark, but a small oil-lamp throws a tiny patch of
vellow light in one corner; half-in and half-out of the
circle of light crouches a tall, dark-haired man ina
brown robe. He holds a warhammer in his clenched
hands and hisses at you to be gone if you know
what is good for you. Will you:

Attack the man? Turn to 324
Try to talk with him? Turn to 383
Leave and search elsewhere? Turn to 4

31

You have to leave the city immediately. You cannot
purchase any more items or visit any more loca-
tions, but you can buy Provisions (1 Gold Piece buys
enough for 2 meals) on the way out of Ashkyos.
Turn to 388.

32-33

32
The Necromancer is not swift, nor is he talented in
the use of weapons, but his clawed hands can rake
your flesh and cause as much damage as any edged
weapon would! What is more, he gains extra vitality
from being among the tombs here and can fight for
longer than usual!

NECROMANCER

If your STAMINA is reduced to 4 or below, turn to
372. If you win, turn to 156.

SKILL10 STAMINA15

33
There are many food shops selling small sweet

cakes, good bread, hot slices of peppered beef in
poppy-seed buns, and other delicious foods. They
also sell preserved food for adventurers. 1 Gold
Piece will buy you enough food for 2 meals — but
don’t forget: you cannot carry more than 12 Provi-
sions in a backpack (and only 4 if you don’t have a
backpack!). After buying here — if you do - you can
continue your shopping elsewhere (turn to 384) or
find some other part of town to visit (turn to 229).

|

34

If you have at least 4 Gold Pieces with you, you can
try your luck at buying and selling small items in the
markets, hoping to pick up a bargain and sell it later
at a better price, If you do not have this much
money, or if you do not want to risk this undertak-
ing, turn to 229 and try somewhere else.

If you are willing to trade, roll one die and subtract
the number rolled from 4. This is the number of
Gold Pieces you gain by buying and selling in the
market. If you roll 5, you lose 1 Gold Piece; if you roll
6, you lose 2 Gold Pieces; well, you’re not an expert
trader, after all!

After your foray into trading, a small group of
merchants form a circle round you and tell you in no
uncertain terms to push off: they are the merchants
round here and they don’t like small-timers -
especially foreigners — butting in! Add 1 point to
your NOTORIETY, and you may not return to this
part of town again! Turn to 229 to find somewhere
else to visit.

35

35
A new day brings more heat and discomfort as you

march wearily along. You are past the half-distance
on your journey, but it is a desperately hard grind.
Again, you must eat 2 meals today.

A rare rock outcrop offers blessed relief as you rest
in its shade; but unfortunately it also allows a
cunning enemy to sneak up behind you — which
is exactly what happens. You glimpse a looming
shadow in the brilliant sunshine and stumble to
your feet, in time to see a huge green Troll advanc-
ing on you with raking claws outstretched! Worse
still, this is a Mutant — it has two heads, a scaly tail,
and horrid, hard protuberances all over its body;
and its legs and shoulders are abnormally strongly
muscled, with thick-corded veins and sinews bulg-
ing underneath the livid green skin of the snarling
monster!

Fighting this brute —- which you must do — is not
easy. Each time the Troll hits you, roll one die. Ona
roll of 1 or 2, the Troll has caused double normal
damage — 4 points — because of the sheer weight of
its claws and fangs bearing down on you!

TWO-HEADED TROLL SKILL 8 STAMINA 10

If you win, turn to 124.
ae

36-38

36
You are woken by a faint sound, just in time to see a
River Python slithering across the floor towards
you! You must fight the huge, banded constrictor,
so turn to 162. ,

37
Just as you are getting into the boat, you tread on a

sleeping crewman whose body you couldn’t see in
the darkness! He leaps up, shouting loudly, ‘Mur-
derers! Murderers! The watch! You hit him hard
and push his body into the water; then you lower
the boat after him and start rowing like the blazes
away from the ship. Fortunately most of the crew
are too drunk to respond, but a few of them throw
daggers and even a harpoon at your boat! Before
you can slip into darkness and safety, roll one die
and add 1 to the total. This is the number of points
you must deduct from your STAMINA because of
randomly flung weapons. If you are still alive, turn
to 199.

38

The swarthy man goes to the bar to buy some more
drinks while the young man whispers conspira-
torially to you about a robbery they have planned.
He says that hundreds of gold pieces could be in the
place ... You gulp the tasty rich wine his friend
brings back to your table. Soon you are finding it
hard to concentrate on what the two men are saying
to you. . . but they are smiling, so it must be all
right. . . Turn to 303.

39-42

39
You refuse point blank to carry on and run up the

steps, out of the crypt. But there is a igure waiting
for you here! Turn to 135.

40
You blow the Silver Whistle, and soon your small
friend comes scampering towards you. Do you have
a mark on your forehead? If you do, turn to 226. If
you do not, turn to 366.

41
‘Fine,’ says Vesper the thief, and he gives you a
handful of small coins to buy food and some of the
local hot herbal tea, to keep you refreshed during
the day. You wolf down the food (regain 2
STAMINA points), sip the tea under the warm sun,
and rest, waiting for the night to come around. . .

... And when it does, the little thief arrives with it.
He has a bag containing picklocks, crowbars, jem-
mies, some rope . . . and heaven knows what else
in it. You set off down the dark streets to the
warehouse, and Vesper tells you to keep watch in
the shadows while he slips inside and begins work.
You settle down to keep watch. If you have the
Bindsight Skill, turn to 291. If you haven’t, turn to

362.

42
The Senate House is a tall and beautiful structure —
what remains of it. Above the arched entrance you
can see lettering etched into the stone and some odd

43-45

sculpted design, but you can‘t make out any detail.
You might be able to read it if you could get up to
have a closer look. Do you want to try climbing (turn
to 224) or go straight into the building (turn to 106)?

43
You edge one way round the room; the man, drag-

ging his burden, edges along the opposite wall,
towards the door. Eventually he reaches it— only to
trip over the body of his colleague! He panics, drops
the Dark Elf’s body and rushes down the stairs. He
is very swift and can elude you if you try to follow.

Have you seen a Dark Elf before during this adven-
ture? If you have, turn to 100. [f you have not, turn
to 325.

4
‘Well, I suppose I’d better do a few tricks,’ says
Jesper miserably. Clearly, your smart and helpful
little companion considers this to be beneath his
dignity. If you want to tell him he doesn’t have to do
this, turn to 282, But if you really need the money
and want him to go ahead, turn to 232.

45
You knock the drunken wretch down, and the other

galley-slaves are only too glad to help you strangle
the life out of your hateful oppressor. But the First
Maite of the ship has seen what happened, and now
you are dragged out in chains to walk the plank as
an example for the other slaves! Dumped into the
sea at scimitar-point, you gasp for air as you see the

46-48

triangular fin heading towards you through the
blue waves, and then you scream in agony as your
legs are ripped away by the savage shark. You have
met a tragic and early end in your quest, and your
adventure ends here!

46
You must fight to destroy the poisonous snake.
Even though you will have to take only the usual 2
points of damage from any bite it delivers during
combat, and although it will not strike you easily, its
venom may have delayed effects.

VENOMOUS SNAKE

If you win, turn to 211.

SKILL6 STAMINA6

47
‘Move aside, my good fellow,’ you say with all the
natural authority you can muster, and you claim
that you are meeting someone of importance inside.
Now you must Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn
to 98. If you are Unlucky, turn to196.

48
You settle down somewhat reluctantly on the
bedbug-infested bed, but you are so tired that you
drift off to sleep anyway. Do you have the Acute
Hearing Skill? If you do, turn to 233. If you do not,
turn to 152. ae

49-52

49
Clad in your armour and grasping your sword, you

step into the ring. The crowd roars with bloodlust as
you move around, seeking an advantage of position
and momentum fora first sword-thrust. Among the
crowd, Marshal Lakatos — the corrupt military dicta-
tor of this city - watches with sadistic amusement.

Your life is in your own hands now, for this is a fight
to the death!

GLADIATOR SKILLQ STAMINA 14
If you win, turn to 389.

50
This ring adds 2 to your SKILL! It does allow you
to exceed your Initial sk1LL, and this bonus can
be added to any you may have for possessing
a Magic Sword (if you have one). If your Initial
SKILL was high, with this borius it can even exceed
12! Return to 267 to decide upon another action to
perform.

51
Do you have the Acute Hearing Skill? If you have,
turn to 36. If you haven’t, turn to 132.

52
Out of thin air, a gleaming black-bladed long-
sword strikes at the Necromancer, causing him to
lose 2STA MINA points! If this kills him, turn to 177.
If he is still alive, turn to 11.

53-54

53
Entertainer’s Square is a great open space with

benches and trestles, and with drinking-dens and
stalls selling refreshments. Around you, minstrels,
bards, street poets and animal trainers are enter-
taining the populace and, looming above all, the
Gladiatorial Park dominates the square.

If you have Jesper with you, turn to 44. If you have
been in this district before, turn to g. If this is your
first visit, and Jesper is not with you, turn to 2.

You can buy food in Rahasta from a sullen, dis-
figured old man whose taloned hands grab eagerly
for your money. However, he asks 1 Gold Piece for
each set of Provisions you buy. Double the usual
rate, but you must pay or go without. If you buy,
adjust your Treasure and Provisions accordingly.
Now, will you:

Find somewhere to sleep, if you

haven't slept here yet? Turn to 166
Go to a tavern, if you haven't

done so before? Turn to 272
Try to buy a mount for the

journey ahead? Turn to 186
Leave for Kabesh? Turn to 114

55

The noise of loud shouting comes from the street
below, and you can both see the militia arriving
in force, making for the stairs. The Dark EIf,
amazingly, grins at you. ‘Not the time to finish this,
I think,’ he says, and despite his threat to kill you in
Kabesh you have to agree with this. Whoever won
would only be overpowered by the militia. The
Dark Elf runs to the door, unwinds a rope from
round his middle, whispers a few words in the
language of his people, and — is gone! He simply
holds on to one end of the rope, is jerked upwards —
and disappears into thin air! His final words hang in
the air: ‘We may meet again.’

But what of your own escape? If you have the
Climbing Skill, turn to 281. If you don’t, turn to 365.

56

56
You take the Sacred Sphere of Hazdur to Baalberith
the Savant. His face reflects his delight when he
takes the ball; as he does so, it hums slightly and
radiates a faint blue glow in the hands of the priest.
His devout attendants fall to their knees and
mumble prayers. He puts the Sphere aside on a
velvet cushion, and tells you that you have brought
es people the source of divine wisdom they sought
ere.

Baalberith blesses you; gain 1 LucK point. He will
also reward you; he will gladly give you any or all of
the following which you might need: a lantern with
oil, some rope, a sword, and enough Provisions for
6 meals. He also offers you a magical item: you can
take either a Potion of Stamina (if drunk, it restores
STAMINA equal to one-half your Initial level,
rounding fractions up; you can drink it at any time
except during combats); or you can have a fine
scimitar which is a Magic Sword. This will add 1 to
your SKILL, in combats only. Think carefully before
deciding which item you want!

You may stay with the nomads tonight and rest;
regain 4 STAMINA points. In the morning the
nomads will leave, so you cannot return to their
camp; turn to 4 to find another area in the ruins to
visit.

57-59

The juvenile thief escapes easily, and one of his
pursuers stops and points angrily at you. ‘You
could have stopped him! You’re probably a thief,
like he is!’ People stop and stare at you; add 1 point
to your NOTORIETY. It’s best to leave this district
and try another part of town; turn to 229.

58
A tall, pale, black-cloaked figure appears in an
entranceway. His flesh is shiny, almost scaly, and
there is a charnel smeil about him. The Necro-
mancer will want to replenish his undead retinue if
he can! Do you have a forehead mark? If you have,
turn to 133. If you haven’t, turn to 322.

The fiery missile lands on the deck close to you and
showers you with red-hot debris; deduct 8 points
from your STAMINA for this massive strike. If you
are still alive, turn to 358.

iy

‘ih Hil Hi

VAM

o~ <n

60-61

60

The only hosteiry you can find to sleep in is the
Plague House, a former asylum for the victims of a
festering, dementia-inducing plague, which has
now been converted into a lodging house. The
creature who runs it has a disgusting mutation:
drops of thick yellow mucus drip from his insect-
uke, purple compound eyes on to his cheeks; he
crushes the mucus away with a rubbery paw
covered in thick black bristles. He seems almost to
relish your disgust as he tells you that it will cost you
2 Gold Pieces to rent a room for the night, and offers
you a key. If you have the money, you do need rest
and you should therefore pay and go to sleep in
your dank, foul room: turn to 48. If you have no
money at all, or you refuse to pay, you will have to
sleep out in the open: turn to 152.

61

You sit down with the Gnomes and begin to play
dice; you are fortunate, winning 2 Gold Pieces.
Then two of them leave for the bar, and the other
two edge closer to you. “Big strong warrior, aren't
you?’ one says softly. ‘We could use a man like you.
Want a job for the evening? Not exactly legal, but it
pays well. A word somewhere where the walls
don’t have ears,’ and you get up with them, leave
and walk as far as a quiet and deserted, darkened

62

back-street. ‘All you’ve got to do is keep look-out.
Our master, he’s interested in, like, research. Needs
a few bones and stuff, down at the cemetery. Five
Gold Pieces in it for you. Coming?’ Will you agree to
help the Gnomes (turn to 273) or refuse to do so
(turn to 293)?

62

You shout at the Mate to stop his ill-treatment, but
he turns on you with a snarl and gives you a
flogging every bit as bad as the one he inflicted on
Ramon. Deduct 3 points from your STAMINA. Then
the Orc stamps away, puffing and cursing. Ramon
turns to you and whispers his thanks; had the Orc
gone on with the flogging, he would certainly be
close to death. You see the utter fatigue in Ramon’s
limbs and the despair in his eyes. Will this hell never
end? Turn to 375.

— === oop ieee

63-65

63

Ashrivelled, glowing, mummified hand appears on
your shoulder, squeezing at your sword-arm. You
must fight with a temporary deduction of 1 from
your SKILL unti] you have killed your evil foe.
What's more, each Attack Round you must roll one
die: if you roll 1-3, the pain from this spectral claw is
so great that you must deduct 1 point from your
STAMINA. Return to 32 to finish the fight.

64

Kanstrin’s Guursh Bar is not what you might have
expected! The name is a joke — this is the one high-
class place in the Old Quarter. With your dubious
appearance, it won't be easy to get past the huge
bouncer at the door. He is probably human, but he
looks as if he has some Trollish blood in him! Will
you:

Try to bribe your way in? Turn to 259
Try to bluff your way in? Turn to 47

Try Koyala’s Bar instead? Turn to 360
Try the Gambling Hall instead? Turn to 311

65
You have time to loose off up to 3 crossbow bolts at
one target. For each shot, roll two dice. If the total
rolled is less than or equal to your SKILL, you have
hit the target. If the total rolled is greater than your
SKILL, you have missed. If you hit with at least two
shots, you have killed a deer, and you can get some
meat, and your bolts back; if you did not hit with at
66-68

least two shots, the deer escapes and you will not be
swift enough to track and catch it. Cross off the
crossbow bolts you use from your Possessions. If
you killed a deer, turn to 312. If you did not, turn to
190.

66
if you want to do any last-minute shopping, you can
do so by turning to 384; but then you must turn to
388 (make a note of this paragraph number on your
Adventure Sheet).

67
The dart causes only 1 point of damage to your
5TAMINA-— but itis poisoned, and you feel yourself
keeling over in a dead faint! Turn to 303.

68

Shanzikuul reappears, the neck amulet shimmering
round his pale throat as he materializes in the room.
Continue your fight with him — you must add 6 to
the STAMINA score he had when the earlier fight
was broken off — he has performed some healing on
himself — so return to 289 to complete the fight,
which is now to the death! Make a note that, if you
win, you should turn at once to 349.

69-70

69
When drunk, the Potion of Stamina will restore
STAMINA equal to half your Initial score (rounding
fractions up). If you have, say, an Initial STAMINA
of 19, drinking this Potion will restore up to 10 lost
STAMINA points. You may drink this at any time
except during combats. Return to 275.

70
You round the corner of a small warehouse and
bump right into — Captain Shagrot! There’s no mis-
taking the eyepatch, the wooden leg or the scimitar
in those gnarled, shovel-like hands. ‘Thought you’d
escape, did yer?’ he snarls in fury, drawing his
scimitar. Shagrot’s crew members are beginning to
forma circle round you! You can either fight (turn to
93) or try to make a run for it (turn to 385).

nani

71-74

71
You are face to face with a huge, ten-legged scor-

pion with garish, yellow-green pincers and a black
tail which arches over its back and ends in a forked,
red-tipped, stinging point. The back of the creature
is protected by thick black spines; from them a
sticky, milky fluid oozes, coating the flanks of the
monster with a foul-smelling, dnpping membrane.
You do have the option of running away from here
now without taking any damage, since the monster
is slow to react to your presence. If you wish to
Tun away and search somewhere else, turn to 4.
If you want to stay and fight the scorpion, turn

to 97.

72
What will you try, in order to get out of this threat-
ening situation? Will you:

Fight the locals? Turn to 371
Try to talk your way out of it? Turn to 176
Offer them some money? Turn to 350
Find some item you have to show
to them? Tum to 142
73

If you must leave (because your NOTORIETY is 8 or
more), turn to 31. Otherwise, turn to 66.

74
If you have the Animal Wisdom Skill, turn to 165. If
vou haven’t, turn to 369.

75-78

75
You heave the body on to your shoulder and ascend
the stairs, to find someone waiting outside! Turn to

76
You step on a rock beneath the sand and twist your
foot, bumping into a pillar as you do so, The pillar
falls and gives you a nasty blow in the side as you try
to limp away; deduct 4 points from your STAMIN A.
If you want to continue looking here, turn to 20. If
you want to leave the Coliseum, turn to 4.

At last the hellish voyage is over! The crew are
drinking themselves stupid in celebration at the
lookout’s cnes of ‘Land ahoy’ The Diablo makes her
way down the estuary towards Ashkyos and
anchors close by the town. The crewmen release
you and the other galley-slaves from your chains,
rope you all together, and batten down the hatches
to keep you inside. You are able to slip your bonds
easily enough, but the hatch is a different matter.
You are baffled until, luckily, a few drunken crew-
men come down to have some fun with their whips;
as they do so, you slip past them and climb up on
deck. If you have the Move Silently Skill, turn to
244. If you don’t, turn to 138.

78
Fresh venison would be delicious, but there’s no
way you're going to get any! The vultures seem to
be smirking . . . turn to 190.

79-81

79

Circling around, the cunning Manticore fires some
spikes at you before it lands to fight on the ground.
Roll two dice four times. Each time the total rolled
is greater than your SKILL, you get hit by a spike
and must deduct 2 points of damage from your
STAMINA. After this, the Chaos creature lands and
you can fight back; turn to 102,

80

You advance on the figure — but he is very swift and
guesses your intentions at once. From his robes he
draws a long dagger with a discoloured, curved
blade and advances on you, hissing. Wretchedly,
you have chanced on an Assassin being paid for his
work! You must fight him. If he wins an Attack
Round, each of his first three blows will inflict
4 points of damage to your STAMINA, because
of the poison on his sword; after this, any further
hits will mean only the usual 2 points being
deducted.

ASSASSIN SKILL9Q STAMINA

If you win, turn to 348.

81
Leering, battle-scarred Captain Grotniss spits at
you and utters a curse as he lashes out with his

broadsword!
PIRATE CAPTAIN SKILL8 STAMINA Q

If you defeat him, turn to 201.

Ss =| ee
1 Rae nied ww We E

i i “ai THT

i! si
De *

aP he iN fh Te of 4

§2

B2

After edging your way along the ledge for a few
yards, you come to a door which is very slightly
ajar, so you risk a peek through the crack. You see
an otherwise bare chamber containing some vats
filled with sludge, and large iron ladles and buckets
beside them. The air is warm and the smell is
veasty, but not unpleasant. A Mutant wanders in,
takes a bucket, ladles some sludge into it, and goes
away out of your sight.

A minute or so later, you hear slurping and thrash-
ing sounds coming from the Thing in the pit. If the
Thing feeds on sludge, could you eat some? Will
you:

Enter the room and eat some
sludge? Turn to 339

Head for the portcullis? Turn to 352
Backtrack and go right round the

ledge (if you haven’t taken

that path before)? Turn to 117

83—-84

83

Searching the bodies of the kidnapper and his ac-
complice, you find a total of 4 Gold Pieces; as you
are checking for further treasure, you hear shouts
outside. Peering out of the door, you see a squad of
militiamen already on the scene! It’s impossible to
fight them, there are too many of them. Do you
have the Climbing Skill? If you do, turn to 281. If
you haven’t, turn to 365.

84

You say that you don’t wish to fight, and the man
doesn’t attack. The man, whose name is Kanestin,
says that he is here to find a lost magical tome - and
he knows your purpose, it seems, for he says he has
no interest in trying to overcome the Master of
Chaos! He does know where the entrance to the
Chaos Pits is, though, and he will tell you where
this is — and warn you about a trapped portal there -
if you find the tome for him.

If you already have the book and want to give it to
him, turn to the paragraph with the same number as
the number in the title of the book. If you have it,
but will not give it up, you can either attack him
(turn to 324) or leave and search elsewhere (turn to

85-86

4). If you do not have the book, you may promise
Kanestin help in finding it — if you do, turn to 338; if
you won't help, you leave and find another part of
the ruins: turn to 4.

85

You press on down the stairs and come to a door,
which is easily pushed off its hinges. Beyond lies a
small sanctum with many wall-shelves and the re-
mains of books and scrolls. However, this lair is the
den of a creature that reveals the power of Chaos in
this place! If you have a lantern, turn to 71. If you do
not, turn to 198.

86
You spend the day heaving unwieldy crates in a
warehouse. It’s heavy work, but you are given good
meals to keep you going, and you are paid 4 Gold
Pieces. You also get a place to sleep for the night;
regain 4 STAMINA points.

In the morning, you can stay in this district (turn to
279) or go elsewhere (turn to 229).

87

You sit down and take a closer look at the other
customers, but then a huge, hairy and brutish man
emerges from the other side of the bar and says, ‘Oi,
you! This is a place for drinkers.’ So, will you:

Order some white wine? Turn to 212

Order some red wine? Turn to 113
Leave and go to the Guursh Bar? Turn to 64
Leave and go to the Gambling

Hall? Turn to 311

88-90

88
Your blow strikes the Demon and causes normal
damage when you hit. Return to 302 to finish the
combat.

89
You decide to pay 1 Gold Piece for a decent place to
sleep at the end of the day, well away from the Old
Quarter. But you sleep very badly, and regain no
STAMINA at all! Turn to 287.

go
You run away — and just as you reach the door, a
Dark Elf appears in the room behind you and
snatches the Staff of Power you stupidly left behind!
Laughing, the Dark Elf disappears by clambering
dextrously up a magical rope and vanishing into
thin air! Your cowardice is about to get its due
reward, as a howling group of Mutants comes
racing down the corridor, axes and cleavers at the
ready. Base cowardice has betrayed you at the last!
==

g1

g1
Ali Haji-Sheikh keeps a good range of weapons and
other useful supplies for the seasoned adventurer.
His prices are:

Backpack 2 Gold Pieces
Crossbow 4 Gold Pieces
Crossbow bolts (5) 1 Gold Piece

Lantern (with oil) 4 Gold Pieces
Leather armour (with shield) 8 Gold Pieces
Sword 5 Gold Pieces

Ali is a fair man and will also include a waterskin
with a backpack (or with any purchase over 2 Gold
Pieces). You can have anything you pay for, but you
may carry only one of each item shown (except
for crossbow bolts; you can carry up to 10 of these).
The crossbow is, of course, useless without bolts
to shoot! If you buy a crossbow and bolts, you
must keep track on your Adventure Sheet of
how many bolts you use. Ali is also prepared to buy
certain items from you, should you want to sell for
any reason: he offers 3 Gold Pieces for a sword and
2 Gold Pieces for a lantern, and in this case you
are allowed to carry an extra item of this type if you
find one and want to bring it here for sale.
Certain purchases, however, attract attention! For
buying each of the following items you gain 1
NOTORIETY point: a crossbow, leather armour and
a sword,

If you want to do more shopping, turn to 384;
otherwise turn to 229.

92-93

92

An unsteady pillar suddenly wobbles and falls — but
you have time to jump away before it hits the spot
where you were standing! Gain 1 LucK point for
this piece of good fortune. You wait for the choking
sand and dust to clear, If you want to proceed with
checking the pillars and the entrance passage, turn
to 20. If you want to go elsewhere, turn to 4.

93
The crew look reluctant to intervene directly, They
hate their sadistic Captain as much as you do! But
they hem you in and you must fight!

CAPTAIN SHAGROT SKILLQ STAMINA 11

Unfortunately a demented parakeet takes off from
one of the sailor’s shoulders and tries to fly at your
face and distract you! You have a choice here. You
can ignore the parakeet and attack the Captain; but
if you do this, you must fight with a tem
reduction of 1 to your sKILt until the Captain is
killed. Or you can attack the parakeet — two blows
will kill it, but this gives the Captain time to strike
you twice, for a total of 4 points of damage to your
STAMINA. Decide what you wish to do and finish
the fight! If you win, turn to 278,

94-96

94
If you have the Animal Wisdom Skill, turn to 15. If
you haven't, turn to 171.

ge

95
The Chaos horror smacks wetly into your face; its

thick mucus blocks your sight and tentacles wrap
themselves round your throat. Spines probe for
your jugular vein while throbbing and knotted
veins in the tentacles pulsate wildly at the promise
of rich, warm, red blood. You manage to drag the
nightmare conjuration off, but not before you have
lost 3 points from your sTAMINA. Now you face
Shanzikuul, who stands, smirking, while his hand
tightens on his sword! Turn to 289.

—_—
96
You look around, listening to the musicians and
watching the team of amazing juggling Gnomes
dressed in flamboyant colours, hurling plates and
coloured balls up in the air. Then you catch a
fragment of conversation coming from one side:
‘Tonight at Kanstrin’s, then. We'll take out...
poisoned darts .. . Master says kidnap .. .” You

ee

97-99

look around slowly and see two men in leather
jerkins moving away in opposite directions. In the
crowds, they easily melt away from your sight.
Now, will you:

Spend some more time in

Entertainer’s Square? Turn to 9
Ask people discreetly about

‘Kanstrin’? Turn to 168
Leave here and go elsewhere

in town? Turn to 229

97
You have a tough fight on your hands against the
Mutant Scorpion. Each time it wins an Attack
Round, roll one die. If you roll 1 or 2, you are hit by
the creature's stinger, and the venom from this does
double normal damage (4 points per strike).

MUTANT SCORPION skKILL7Z STAMINA8

If you win, turn to 236.

98
The door’s guardian ushers you in with a grunt;
turn to 148.

99
You feed the ravenous Mutant Ore (deduct 1 meal

from your Provisions). It gives an appreciative
belch, and is now only too happy to tell you what it
knows of Kabesh. While still in its original, Orcish
condition, it was captured by mutant servants of a

100-101

foul Wizard and taken to the Chaos Pits below the
ruins; it was dragged there unconscious, so it does
not know where the entrance is. The Wizard is
spawning mutant abominations of many kinds, and
over some weeks the Orc’s arms and head were
mutated from normal Orcish form. It managed to
escape and has fled north, just trying to get as far
trom Kabesh as possible. The Orc can tell you little
else, but it does know that a party of nomads is
heading for the ruins on some kind of sacred pil-
zrimage, looking for a magic item of some sort.

You have talked so long that now it is nearly dawn.
Deduct 1 point from your sTA MINA through loss of
sleep. You bind the Mutant Orc’s limbs fairly
ioosely so that it can work them free in a while - but
not before you are well away from here! You con-
tinue your journey: turn to 390.

100

Now you can see the Dark Elf’s face, you recognize
him as the one you have seen before. Dark Elves
may be evil by nature, but killing a drugged and
helpless creature — even a Dark Elf — would be a
cowardly, evil act in itself. You get on with search-
ing the bodies of the men you have overcome,
keeping one eye on the Elf. Turn to 325.

101
The Old Quarter is swarming with militiamen; it
seems that the tomb of some local minor nobility
was disturbed recently and a body stolen, and

ee  -  e

102-103

everyone is talking about it! You get the message
and start to backtrack, but a militia captain has seen
you and shouts! You panic and run, but you are
soon caught and left to rot in the town dungeon.
Your adventure ends here!

102

The Chaos Manticore is younger than most of its
race and is not of full adult size, but it is still a
frightening enemy with its razor-sharp, great cat's
claws!

CHAOS MANTICORE sxKILL8 STAMINA 10

If you win, turn to 251.

103

You are fairly certain that the lron Key will open the
portcullis - but what of that trap? You're going to
have to take a risk here: you must open it. But you
can hold one item in the hand not turning the Iron
Key before you do this. Write down which item in
your possession you will have, ready to hand, as
you open the portcullis; then turn to 280.

104

104

The docks are teeming with stevedores and seamen
of a wide and disgusting diversity: there are men,
certainly, but there are also Orcs and even some
Ogres — and one small crew of things which might
once have been men, but now. . . you shudder and
look away.

One group of drunken sea-dogs is brawling and
cursing, and out of the comer of your eye you notice
a figure in a small passageway behind one wharf
handing a package to a hunchbacked Dwarf and
taking a purse in return. It must be money — why,
the brown-robed figure is even counting the coins,
and you can see the glint of gold in the sunshine!
The Dwarf vanishes down the alley.

You could try sidling over and having a go at
stealing the gold (turn to 80); or do you prefer to
ignore the robed figure and continue looking
around (turn to 70)?

aE. EE EEE SS
105-106

105

You snatch the ring from Shanzikuul’s hand, and
the wizard screams in rage and fury! He springs up
from his throne-chair and backs away from you.
Will you attack him at once (turn to 187) or spend a
few precious seconds putting the ring on your own
hand, so giving the wizard time to put more dis-
tance between himself and you (turn to 241)?

106

Inside the building, broken fragments of sculptures
and statues lie scattered, together with the bone-dry
remnants of chairs and tables which have mostly
crumbled away to dust. There are even some book
covers lying around, although the paper has long
since been consumed by the ravages of heat and
insects.

At the far end of the chamber there are stairs leading
down, which you investigate. You will need a lan-
tern here — if you do not have one, you can make
your way down, but you could well have problems
with traps and fighting! Also, you thought you
heard something hard scraping on stone, down

_

107-108

below. If you want to descend the stairs, turn to 85.
If you want to leave and go elsewhere, turn to 4 ~if
you are leaving because you don’t have a lantern,
make a note that you can return to investigate later
on if you manage to find one.

107
Alas, just as you are stuffing the last few feathers
into your mouth, the Captain clambers down into
the galley. Enraged, he draws his scimitar and
brings it down across your neck. Your adventure
ends here!

108
You swoon with the pain and fall unconscious. You
will have to lose an extra 5 STAMINA points from
the horrible poison. If this reduces your STAMINA
to zero or below, you are dead, and your adventure
ends here. Otherwise, you wake eventually, feeling
il but able to continue: turn to 183.

109-110

109

The great stone doors to the Mausoleum take con-
siderable effort to force open ~ deduct 2 points from
your STAMINA for this exertion. Inside, there are
numerous marble tombs and sarcophagi, and wide
stone steps leading down. There are some lanterns
on the walls which have a little oil left—so, if you do
not have a lantern, you may take one of these (add it
to your Possessions). You descend the steps to a
landing, where you see tomb-chambers to the left
and right. It is eerily silent, and your footsteps echo
on the cold, hard stone.

7

J

As you are pondering which way to go, two skeletal
figures, armed with stone axes, slip out of the
shadows on either side of you. You must fight the
two together. Each Attack Round, determine the
Attack Strength of yourself and both the Skeletons.
The combatant with the highest Attack Strength
will inflict a damaging blow in that Attack Round.
When you destroy one Skeleton, of course, you will

\(
ih

1

gif = Nit NN) then be in a one-to-one fight with the other!
SKILL STAMINA
First SKELETON 6 5
Second SKELETON 6 6

If you win, turn at once to 333 without performing
any other actions.

110

You are no wizard, but by sheer good fortune you
open the book at the page containing a weird for-
mula, and you start gibbering it out: it is a Spell of

111-112

Fortifying, and through it you regain up to 10 lost
STAMINA points. Also gain 2 LUCK points for this
fluke success! Now turn to 68.

111

Vesper sits drinking tea with you. ‘I don’t have
long,’ he says quietly, ‘I’ve got a little job to do this
morning. Nothing you could help with, I’m afraid.’
But he does tell you some things about Ashkyos.
You know about the unpleasant miliia and the
brutal city ruler, Marshal Lakatos, but other snip-
pets of information are interesting. First, Vesper
saw a Dark Elf about town yesterday, inquiring
about boats going upriver to Rahasta. Dark Elves
are rare in Khul! Also, if you want further employ-
ment, Vesper knows that a Necromancer has
arrived in town recently. ‘] was offered the chance
to do some grave-robbing for him, but it’s not my
line really. Pays well, though. If you're interested,
try Stavian’s in the Old Quarter — just down the
road, in fact.’

It’s time to leave Vesper now, so will you:

Head for the markets to sell the

saffron? Turn to 240
Go to the Old Quarter? Turn to 26
Go somewhere else in town? Turn to 229

112
You can see nothing down here in the gloom; fearful
of blundering into other monsters that may be lurk-
ing in the dark, you leave. Turn to 4.

113-114

113

You pay 1 Gold Piece for your goblet of red wine and
sit drinking in a corner. After a short while, a
swarthy man in a cloak and a fair-haired youth
wearing a smart grey jacket and blue breeches sidle
over and sit beside you. They murmur to you that
they could use a ‘friend’ to assist with a little job
they have in mind. Illegal, but lucrative! ‘Have a
drink with us and let's discuss it,’ says the younger
man in a smarmy tone of voice. Will you:

Accept their offer of a drink? Turn to 38
Leave and visit the Guursh Bar? Turn to 64
Leave and try the Gambling Hall? Turn to 311

114
Have you slept and rested in Rahasta? If you have,
turn to 327. If you haven't, you have to take the risk
of sleeping in the wilds, because you are desper-
ately tired; turn to 152.

ee ee
115-116

115

You pick up the sword (you can add this to your
Possessions if you do not already have one) and
bind the arms of the whimpering Mutant Orc. Orcs
may be evil and vicious, but it is hard not to feel at
least a little pity for this pathetic creature, once you
have mastered your revulsion at its appearance.
Then, surprisingly, the Ore manages to utter a few
words that you can just about understand. It thanks
you for sparing it and explains that it is starving,
having found no food on its flight from the horrors
of Kabesh. Kabesh! This creature has been there. . .
If you are prepared to give it some food, turn to gg.
Otherwise, turn to 200.

116
If this is the first time you have visited the Market
district, turn to 17. Otherwise you stroll over to
Entertainer’s Square (turn to 53).

117

117

You edge along the path, closer to the open door-
way, and when you reach it you risk a look inside.
You see a chamber which contains many weapons —
swords, cleavers, halberds, bardiches, clubs and
cudgels. You also see a man, clad in leather armour
and wielding a broadsword, wearing an unusual
helm on his head. He is half-turned away from you,
so you duck your head back to avoid being seen.
What will you do now? Will you:

Double back and take the left
side of the ledge (if you haven't

taken that path before)? Turn to §2
Try to sneak past the guard to

the portcullis? Turn to 332
Attack the guard? Turn to 248

—_—>FEFEh™”~““ l—]E———|_ “kn _ _S_-L_=-_——_—
118-119

118

You kick open the door at the head of the stairs and
are greeted by a surprising scene. A small, greasy,
dark-haired man in a leather jerkin stands facing
you, his back against the far wall; he is holding a
dagger across the throat of an unconscious Dark Elf
who is slumped forward so that you cannot see his
face. ‘One move and the Elf gets it,’ the man cries
out nervously. ‘Over there, slow, while I get out the
door,’ and he gestures to one side. Will you attack
him, knowing that the helpless Dark Elf can be slain
in an instant (turn to 210), or do as the man tells you
(turn to 43}?

119
You clamber up the crates and manage to push a
couple down behind you on top of the sailors,
knocking them down. This action enrages the mer-
chant who owns the fragile cargo inside them, and
he screams for the authorities. As you flee, a militia-
man arrives and gets a brief look at you. Add 1 point
to your NOTORIETY, but you do escape. Now find
somewhere else to visit by turning to 229.

——
.

a .

120-121

120

You take Shanzikuul’s amulet — but now it has
grown dull, and you guess that its magic is in
abeyance. Return to 267 to decide which other ac-
tions to perform!

121

You haggle with the little man. ‘Come on, that
beast has seen better days,’ you say authoritatively.
‘Ten Gold Pieces is all I’) offer!’ He feigns shock,
waving his hands and saying what wicked people
foreigners are. But eventually you beat him down to
13 Gold Pieces for the camel. If you buy it now,
Bokhannon will keep it stabled for you until you
need it; if you don’t have the money for it now, you
can come back and buy it later by returning to this
paragraph (make a note of this). For now, you can

continue shopping (turn to 384) or go elsewhere in
town (turn to 229).

122-123

I2z2

A heavy dew falls just before a searing sun rises in
the sky, and you are able to collect enough moisture
to keep going. Tonight should see you in Rahasta,
where you will be able to rest and buy food for
the last leg of the journey to Kabesh. You set off
wearily, squinting into the heat-haze in the
distance.

Your hopes for an undisturbed day are suddenly
dashed: just as you are rounding a ridge, a weird
shape lumbers into the air in front of you. The
Chaos creature has a lion’s body covered in mottled
black fur, huge leathery wings, an almost human
head, and a long, green, scaly tail, covered in knob-
bled spikes. The Chaos Manticore fires a volley of
barbs straight at you! Some of the spikes strike your
camel, which falls to the ground, dead — but you
leap off in time to avoid harm. Do you have a
crossbow and at least 1 bolt? If you have, turn to 192.
lf you haven’t, turn to 79.

123
The Necromancer’s body falls dead at your feet; you
have slain this vile servant of Evil! If he gave you
some money, turn to 179. If he did not, turn to 16.

SS 0059585606020 OEE

124-127

124
If you have the Tracking Skill, turn to 361. If you
haven't, turn to 213.

125
You make a grab for the Staff, but the Master of
Chaos is too swift for you. He spins violently out of
his chair, and the amulet round his neck flashes
briefly with light and —- then the Master stands at the
far end of the table, his Staff raised to strike at you as
you race to attack him! Turn to 163.

126
If you have some saffron you want to sell, turn to
the paragraph with the same number as the weight
of the spice, in grammes, which you possess. If you
do not have any saffron, turn to 116.

127
Roll two dice, then add 2 to the total rolled. If this
new total is less than or equal to your sKILL, you
have managed to grab the helm: turn to 286. If the
total is greater than your SKILL, you have failed —
and the guard will get in a free strike against you for

128-130

2 points of damage to your STAMINA. You can try
up to three times to grab the helm — if you can’t doit
in three tries you won't be able to do it at all! If you
decide after fewer tries to fight normally, or if you
fail three times, turn to 159.

128
You run back round the corner of the building and
get away from the blowgun user. It is late, and you
need to find a place to sleep— somewhere safer than
the Old Quarter! Turn to 27.

129
Clearly, you have strong suicidal tendencies. You
are soon surrounded by a dozen Chaos Mutants,
who are only too delighted to overpower you and
throw you into the blasphemous horror in the Pik, to
have the very marrow sucked from your bones!

130

Breathing heavily with fatigue, you gaze down at
the thick, severed tentacle. Shagrot stares at you out
of his one baleful black eye and mutters his grudg-
ing thanks. He turns around and knocks a seal off
one of the kegs on the deck, thick, treacly grog
begins to run from it. Needing no second invitation,
you cup your hands to gulp some down. Regain 4
STAMINA points. Turn to 215.

nena > a igus

i T

131

131

The Warrior-Savant of the nomads introduces him-
self as Baalberith, Servant of the Lord of the Suns
and the Ways. You have no idea what that implies,
so you decide to bow respectfully, and this seems to
go down quite well. Baalberith explains that his
people are in this defiled land on a sacred quest to
recover a lost icon of great religious and spiritual
mportance to them: the Sacred Sphere of Hazdur,
a golden globe set with moonstones. Obviously
they do not know exactly where it is to be found.
Baalberith says that, should you find this item here,
you will be rewarded for your efforts! (If you find
this object, and you decide to give it to Baalberith,
you can do so by turning to a specific paragraph:
take the numbers for the SKILL and STAMINA of
the monster you fight immediately before finding
the Sphere, multiply them together and this will
give you the number of the paragraph to turn to. For
example, if the monster has a SKILL of 9 and a
STAMINA Of 20, you would turn to paragraph 180.
Make a note of this formula!)

You say that you will do your best to help the
nomads, and Baalberith seems satisfied with this.
He will provide food and shelter for you tonight.
Now, is Jesper with you? If he is, turn to 263.
Otherwise, turn to 28.

132-134

132

You wake to feel a constricting pressure round
your chest — you are being squeezed (and bitten)
by a River Python! Deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA. The long, pink, forked tongue and the
small fangs of the reptile are not a serious threat, but
the bulging muscle of the green-yellow body coiled
about you threatens to squeeze your very life’s
breath out of you! You will have the following
penalities in the fight to come: because of the
squeezing you will have to deduct 1 point from your
STAMINA every Attack Round until the monster is
dead, and you must reduce your SKILL by 2 for the
duration of this combat! Now turn to 162 to fight the
creature.

133
You must Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, tur to
322. If you are Unlucky, turn to 256.

134
You manage to get away from the guards and
they soon give up trying to follow you. You find
a back-alley in which to rest, but you manage
to sleep only fitfully and you don’t regain any
STAMINA.

In the morning, you must eat a meal. You decide to
make for a different part of town, since guards are
already beginning to patrol the Warehouse district,
and one or two look at you with suspicion. Add 1
point to your NOTORIETY: turn to 229.

135-139

135
Outside, in the thickening night mist, stands a pale

figure dressed all in black. The smell of death is
strong about him, and his pale flesh shines slightly,
as if a fine coating of scales covered his skin. He
stretches out a hand to you; it looks like a skeletal
claw, covered in shiny parchment. Are you carrying
a body? If you are, turn to 214. If you are not, turn to
170.

136
The cooked meat will soon spoil. You may carry
enough for 2 meals, to be eaten later today, but no
more than this. Turn to 1go.

137
Do you have a Magic Sword? If you SE turn to 88.
If you haven't, turn to 145.

138

Just as you are dashing across the deck, the alarm is
taised and you have to dive off the side and swim
for it! Daggers are thrown and a harpoon launched
after you, but the crew are too drunk to get a lifeboat
out and give chase. Roll one die and add 1 to the
total. This is the number of points you must deduct
from your STAMINA, caused by hits landing while
you are swimming away. If you are still alive, turn
to 178.

139
You must Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to

304. If you are Unlucky, turn to 202.

140-143

140
The item you have selected will not protect you
from the rain of deadly snakes released from a wire
cage in a concealed shaft overhead as you unlock
and lift the portcullis. The black-skinned mambas
have glowing red eyes and foul, blackened, forked
tongues; they hiss at you as the thick, opaque
venom drips from their yellow fangs! Fight the
snakes as if they were a single creature. If you are
bitten, roll one die; on a roll of 1 or 2, the snake bite
will inflict double the usual damage (4 points) be-
cause of its toxic poison!

SNAKE SWARM SKILL6 STAMINA 7

If you win, you stride along the passage beyond the
portcullis: turn to 228.

141
Fortunately, your delaying action gives the men
with the merchant time to make a grab at the mule
and subdue it. For your brave attempt to deal with
the beast single-handed, the merchant gives you 2
Gold Pieces. Turn to 394.

142
If you have an item of iron (a Key or a Ring), turn to
297. If you have neither, turn to 205.

143
You can use your crossbow here only if you have the
Blindsight Skill. If you do not have this, you head

for the stairs with your sword; turn to 246. If you

144-145

have the Blindsight Skill, you can fight with your
crossbow at a distance against the blowgun user.
Fight as normal, but with one difference. When you
lose an Attack Round, roll one die. If the resultis a 6,
turn to 67; if the result is 1-5, you will have to suffer
1 point of damage deducted from yourst AMINA by
this small missile. Now do your best to shoot down
the footpad you are fighting!

FOOTPAD SKILL 7 STAMINA 6

If you run out of crossbow bolts, or you want to
break off the fight and charge up the stairs brandish-
ing your sword, turn to 374. If you win, you mount
the stairs and go past the footpad’s body to the door;
turn to 118.

144
There is something unusual about the mongoose: it

looks distinctly intelligent, and it snuffles against
your leg, looking up pleadingly at you. Turn to 249.

145
Your weapon is useless against the Demon; only
magical weapons can affect it - and you don’t have
one! You can try to run, but it is hopeless. The
Demon’s blazing whip curls round your waist and

146-148

drags you, screaming, backwards; the Demon grabs
you and immoiates you in its fiery embrace. This is
only the beginning of your torments — but the end of
your adventure!

146

You wander round the old warehouses, looking
through the piles of rubble for any clue. It’s hot
today, and the search is time-consuming and tiring.
You must eat a meal. Finally, you find one building
that is more or less intact, and you peer round the
doors into a huge, musty warehouse filled with
piles of dry and ruined crates and sacking. Enough
sunlight streams in through two holes in the roof for
you to make out something of what is in here.

You enter and take a closer look around. Roll two
dice; if you do not have the Acute Hearing Skill, you
must add 2 to the number rolled; but if you do have
this Skill, you may subtract 2 from the number
rolled. If the total is less than or equal to your SKILL,
turn to 391. If it is greater than your SKILL, turn to

336.

147
You retrieve the Staff of Power, but you have al-
ready used up precious time getting to it, and you
dare not employ the soul-destroying malign powers
within it! Turn to 216.

148
You walk into the plush, carpeted hallway of the
building, and stroll towards the bar. Richly dressed

149-150

merchants, a couple of men in impressive military
uniforms, haughty women in silk, lace and velvet
.. . you are not really at home in such places! You
are fortunate to find an expensive drink standing,
untouched, on a deserted table, so you can sit here
and sip it without having to pay the exorbitant
prices charged for drinks here. After a while a door
behind the bar opens briefly, and you glimpse two
men in leather jerkins dashing out of the kitchen
towards the rear of the building. They are ruffians,
not at all in keeping with the customers or the
liveried staff here! Will you stay where you are,
ignoring this little excitement (turn to 14), or leave
and check the back of the building to see what the
men are up to (turn to 317)?

149
Alas, none of the many incantations you find while
scrabbling desperately through the book are of any
use now! Turn to 216.

150
Bokhannon offers travel services of various kinds.
He can sell you passage on a riverboat heading for
Rahasta, the last town in the wastelands, not very
far from Kabesh. This costs 10 Gold Pieces; after you
have paid you may leave by boat at any time by
turning to 243 (make a note of this paragraph num-
ber). He can also sell you a camel for overland
travel, which could take you all the way to Kabesh.
The camel has the advantage that you can carry an

151-152

extra 12 Provisions in the beast’s saddle-bag (in-
cluded in the price) above your usual maximum of
12 in a backpack. However, Bokhannon wants 18
Gold Pieces for a camel! He is sorry that he cannot
offer you a cheaper animal, say a mule, but these
have been in great demand lately for mule pies. If
you want to buy the camel (and you have the money
to pay for it), turn to 379. If you don’t want to buy
the camel — or if you don’t have enough money for it
— you can either continue shopping (turn to 384) or
go to another part of town (turn to 229).

151
You hear a ferocious snarl and wake up imme-
diately. You see a River Python — a dangerous
predator which can inflict severe damage with its
bite and deadly constrictor coils — being thrashed
about the room by the much smaller mongoose,
which triumphantly rips its head off and prances
about the room with it! Jesper is disappointed when
you dump the python into the river — he wanted to
play with the dead snake. He sulks while you go
back to resting. Turn to 254.

152

A stab of agony shoots through your guts and you
awaken, screaming, to see the gloating, reptilian
head of a four-armed semi-human Mutant; two of
her hands are holding the cruelly serrated blade
which is buried deep in your entrails. ‘Food, food!’
she slobbers as her other hands scrabble at your
throat — and at least your death is swift!

== EELS S a __-_.___->=

a .
nl s —. ~
PO mp al x

—/

153

153

The First Mate comes staggering down below decks
again and looks around, his bloodshot eyes staring
wildly from beneath his mane of matted, greasy
black hair. He grins wildly and mutters something
inaudible; then he screams out, ‘You scum! Two
men for deck cleaning, now! I’ll have you, and ~
pointing at you, ‘— you, you worthless vermin!’ Your
chains are removed, but then your leg is fettered
with a ball and chain when you are hauled up on
deck.

You are occupied scrubbing the decks with a hard
bristle brush and sea water when suddenly pan-
demonium breaks loose as huge suckered tentacles
rise into the air out of the sea and lash out at the men
on the decks! Close by you, the despicable Captain
Shagrot draws his scimitar as a vast limb of the
Kraken attacking the Diablo lunges at him!

You now have a choice. You can either ignore what.
is happening and retreat to safety (turn to 22), or
you can attack the tentacle which is lunging at the
Captain, using your ball and chain as a weapon! If
you elect to fight, turn to 299.

154-156

154

You retreat on Hiptoe round a corner — but the
guards have seen you and give chase! If you want to
stand and fight them, turn to 12. If you prefer to try
and make a run for it, roll two dice and add 2. If this
total is less than or equal to your SKILL, turn to 134;
but ifitis greater than your SKILL you will be forced
to fight, so turn to 12.

155
Many houses here:lie in ruins, and it takes some
time to make even a cursory check. You mtusf eat a
meal. Finally, passing by one of the larger houses,
you think you spot a dark figure moving out of the
shadows, away from your line of sight, inside the
building. Will you:

Enter and investigate? Turn to 30
Search other houses? Turn to 284
Go elsewhere in the ruins? Turn to 4

156

You search the body of the Necromancer. You find
an Iron Key which could be useful (add this to your
Possessions), and - putting aside some grisly
charms best left behind — a book entitled The Three
Hundred and Thirty Incantations of Ssassuzlit, which
radiates both magic and evil. If you decide to keep
this, make a note of it with your other Possessions.
If there is someone you want to give the book to,
you know which paragraph to turn to. Otherwise,
it’s time to leave and go elsewhere in the ruins (turn
to 4).

157-160

157
You struggle through the calf-high sand down the
tunnel which leads into the central arena. You must
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 92. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 76.

158
Although itis hot, because of the Ring you suffer no
ill-effects. Turn to 329.

159
The guard begins to foam at the mouth as he lashes
out at you, black-mottled spittle drooling over his
chin!

INSANE WARRIOR

If you win, turn to 345.

SKILLS STAMINA 10

160

The man hands over the leash as you pay him the
money, and he also gives you a small silver whistle.
‘Supposed to come when ’e’s called wiv that,’ he
snarls, ‘but I never let him off his leash, little var-
mint.’ You pocket the whistle as you stroke the soft
fur of the mongoose. (Add the Silver Whistle to
your Possessions.)

fo your total amazement, the mongoose twists its
head around to look at you and then says, ‘Thanks.
I'm a talking mongoose,’ it adds unnecessarily. ‘He
was a hateful brute, but I've got a feeling that you're
a decent person and will treat me fairly. Shall we go
for a stroll?’ Jesper the mongoose heads off towards

161-162

the market stalls, pulling you along behind him -—
you are too dumbfounded to do anything but fol-
low! Gain 1 LUCK point for finding this companion,
and turn to 181.

161
You cannot unlock this barrier, and it is stmply too
heavy for you ta bend the bars. You can go no
further. If you get out of here alive — and one of the
Chaos Mutants below has just seen you — all you
have to look forward to is the hard grind of the trek
back to Ashkyos. You have failed at the last!

162

The River Python is tired of eating birds and rats; it
fancies human flesh for a change — and it will get
some, unless you can kill it!

RIVER PYTHON SKILL 7 STAMINA 7

If you win, turn to 254.

7

~~

163-165

163

As you run towards him, Shanzikuul! holds his
black skull-tipped Staff of Power aloft and whispers
a few words. Right in your path a Wall of Bones
materializes, and you run straight into a barner of
hard-knobbed, sharp bones. Deduct 4 points from
your STAMINA. You have to spend time getting
round this obstacle, and Shanzikuul is readying
another spell: turn to 316.

164
Soon the crew are drinking and singing; you and
your fellow conspirator quietly sidle over to the
lifeboat. Gently you push the tarpaulin off and
prepare to lower the small boat into the water. If you
have the Blindsight Skill, turn to 368. lf you don’t,
turn to 318.

165
The mule will not be easy to stop, since it is career-
ing about and is a cussed-looking creature at the
best of times — which this isn’t! Roll two dice and
then add 1 to the total rolled. If this new total is less
than or equal to your SKILL, turn to 288. if it is
greater than your SKILL, turn to 369.

166-168

166
Do you have Jesper with you? If you do, turn to 301.
If you don’t, turn to 60.

167
Turn to 32 to fight the Necromancer, but note that
on the first Attack Round, he will try to cast a spell.
If he has the higher Attack Strength, turn to 63. If
sth, you strike him

168
You watch a Sroup of Elven mime artists and ask
some people around the place if they know any-
thing about Kanstrin. ‘T'm lost around here,’ you
Say ingenuously, ‘I was Supposed to meet some-
body . ..’ One of the locals, frowning, Says that
Kanstrin’s is in the Old Quarter, and that itis a high-

|
|
|
|

'

7

169-172

Now you can hang around here a little longer,
taking in the sights (turn to 9), Or visit another
district of town (turn to 229).

169
If you have the Blindsight Skill, turn to 374. If you
haven't, turn to 246.

170
‘Cowardly jackal!’ the sinister figure croaks. ‘It will
be your body I shail use!’ The Gnomes back away in
fear at their master’s anger. You will have to fight
here: turn to 194.

174
The camel rears up and throws you to the ground!
Deduct 2 points from your STAMINA and while you
are on the ground the little snake bites you, inflict-
ing a further 2 points of damage. The camel bolts.
Turn to 46 to finish the fight.

on rum, and he picks on you, You can either
sively suffer his beating (turn to 237) or try knocking
him down with your ch ~he is close enough for
you to attempt this (turn to 45).

s

173

173
You descend the steps slowly and carefully. You
can hear revolting noises coming from below:
squelchings and slurps, with an occasional clang of
metal or nerve-tingling scream of some abomina-
tion down in the depths. It is dark and shadowy
when you reach the bottom of the steps and edge
along a passageway - light enough to see by, but the
shadows may help you remain unobserved. You
edge along, close to the wall by the end of the
passage, and look around at the scene before you.

The passage opens out to become a circular ledge,
several feet wide. To your right, there is a stone
spiral stairway which leads down to a vast open
cavern. In the centre of the cavern is a huge pit filled
with an elemental Chaos which is truly nauseating:
the pit is a seething mass of tentacles, suckers, parts
of half-formed bodies and limb buds, covered in
viscous green slime, with thick knotted cords of
yellow-brown mucus. The churning morass sucks
and splashes at the walls of the pit. Around the pit

173

stand several Chaos Mutants — vaguely human-
shaped things with a variety of loathsome muta-
tions: some have extra heads or suckered tentacles
for limbs, others have some body parts misplaced or
have the body parts of an animal affixed to a human
torso, or are covered in scales or mottled, leprous
flesh. This scene is so disgusting it makes you cower
back, nauseous.

Further round the right-hand side of the ledge, you
see an open doorway set into the wall, and a
shadow inside the room beyond. To the left is a
closed door. Directly opposite you, a metal port-
cullis bars the way to a dark passageway beyond.
What will you do now? Will you:

Go down the spiral stairway? Turn to 129
Step carefully round the ledge

to the right? Turn to 117
Move cautiously round the ledge

to the left? Turn to 82

174-176

174
You follow the Trol]’s tracks for a mile or so until
you reach the entrance to an underground cavern.
Having come so far, you decide to investigate.
Entering, you can see, from the sunlight filtering in
to parts of the cavern, that there is a small Troll here
~it springs to the attack at once!

SMALL TROLL SKILL6

If you win, turn to 245.

STAMINA 5

175
You snatch some sleep among crates behind a ware-
house, but not much; it is a cool night and you feel
the chill. In the morning you must eat a meal. Now
turn to 229 to find another district of town to visit.

176
You try to tell the locals that you mean them no
harm, that you are an enemy of Chaos — but this is
precisely what they don’t want to hear: their muta-
tions are marks of Chaos, and they believe that you
mean to do them harm, no matter what you say!
You’ve got to fight; turn to 371.

177-178

177

Slowly you are able to make out the shimmering

form as it becomes visible. It is Naas, the Dark FIf.
He takes a small flask from a hip pouch and urges
you to take a draught from it; you do so and regain 4
STAMINA points.

‘Thave paid my debt to you,’ Naas says softly, ‘and |
owe you no more. I will not dishonour myself by
slaying you here, for you have helped overcome a
great enemy of mine. But now, warrior, henceforth
we must be enemies. The Staff of Power will leave
Kabesh in my hands, not yours.’ Naas whirls a rope
dextrously into the air, holding one end as the rope
stiffens vertically — and then both rope and Dark
Elf simply disappear upwards into thin air! Your
Dark Elf opponent is going to be a formidable
enemy when finally you have to fight him. Turn
to 156.

178
Wet, tired and weak, you reach land at last. You
Stagger up the shoreline and find a fisherman’s
deserted hut where you can rest. Here you fall into a
deep sleep.

179-180

You awaken in mid-morning, somewhat refreshed
(regain 2 STAMINA points). You emerge into the
bright sunlight and peer around. Why, you can see
Ashkyos, less than a mile away! Striding out, you
are soon at the town gates, and you enter, un-
challenged, to look round the place. Turn to 229.

179
On the corpse of the Necromancer you find some
very evil-looking charms which you certainly don’t
want to have about you, but he also has an Iron Key
which might be useful, so you take this (add it to
your Possessions). It’s time to find somewhere safer
in town to sleep, so turn to 27.

180

Picking up a Demon’s sword is an incredibly foolish
action, deduct 1 point from your Luck. When you
do, the malign, sentient thing bursts into flame,
blue-tinted fire shooting up your sword-arm! You
drop the weapon, screaming with pain; deduct 4
points from your STAMINA and 1 point from your
SKILL as well! If you are still alive, you run like
something crazed out of here; turn to 4.

181-183

181
—— Merchants are buying and selling all kinds of wares
in the markets: everything from food and fabrics to
Basilisk-skin cloaks, kegs of Guursh (the unspeak-
able Orcish brew), and magical pots and pans that
clean themselves after use! The merchants them-
selves are very varied: humans, Dwarfs, one or two
Elves, here and there a furtive Gnome, Man-Orcs,

r") and even a Lizard Man peddling patent medicines
AN Hi | ~—_y"4 and necklaces of shark’s teeth for charms.
~ ced el

Do you have Jesper with you? If you do, turn to 323.
If you don’t, turn to 34.

182
This is a large building and, while no other enemy is
visible, there are plenty of dark corners for others to
be lurking in. Will you take a chance on searching
here thoroughly (turn to 378) or leave and go
elsewhere (turn to 4)?

183
It is time to make camp for the night; again, during
this day you must eat 2 meals. Meals eaten to recover
STAMINA lost through combat do not count to-
wards this total!

You erect a makeshift camp in this uncovered, open
and broken land, and settle down to an uneasy
sleep. If you have Jesper with you, turn to 250. If
you don’t have Jesper, but you do have a camel,
turn to 235. If you are alone, turn to 152.

184-185

184
You help to drag a garrulous, drunk and offensive
young merchant back to his town house, where his
despairing wife gives you 2 Gold Pieces and says
coldly she supposes she ought to thank you, Since if
is very late, she lets you sleep in the servants’
quarters.

You sleep well and next morning eat a hearty break-
fast (regain 4 STAMINA points). Turn to 229 to find
another part of town to visit.

185
If you've met Vesper before, turn to 300. If you've
been in the Warehouse district before, but you
haven't met Vesper, turn to 279. If you haven't been
in this district before, turn to 23.

186-187

186

You try your luck around Rabesh, but the few
animals they have are in wretched condition, half-
Starved and wasted. It’s a miracle they are still
standing up ~ although one parasite-infested camel
drops to the ground, dead, just as its owner is ex-
tolling its virtues to you as a prize-winning racing
animal. At length you give up in despair. Now, will
you:

Buy some food? Turn to 54
Look for an inn, if you haven't

visited one yet? Turn to 272
Look for a place to sleep, if

you haven’t slept here yet? Turn to 166
Leave and head for Kabesh? Turn to 114

187
Removing his ring will reduce Shanzikuul’s sKI1LL
by 2 points. Drawing your sword, you now advance
on him — he has already drawn his! Turn to 289 to
fight him, remembering to subtract 2 from his s KILL

as given in that paragraph!

488-191

188
You will need to stake at least 3 Gold Pieces in order
to gamble; if you don’t have this much, you will
have to call it a day and find somewhere to sleep —
turn to 27. But if you have the money and you’re
willing to gamble, who will you gamble with? Will it
be:

Men? Turn to 397

Dwarfs? Turn to 265

Gnomes? Turn to 61
189

Two dagger-wielding pirates confront you; fight
them one at a time in the mélée. If one of them hits
you, roll one die: if you roll 1-3, you take normal
damage (2 points); if you roll 4-6, you take only 1
point of damage from the daggers the men use.

SKILL STAMINA
First PIRATE 6 5
Second PIRATE 6 6

If you win, the Captain himself bears down upon
you, and you must fight him at once. Turn to 81.

190

Today is very hot indeed, and you sweat heavily
under the baking sun. If you have a Ring of En-
durance, turn to 158. If you don’t, turn to 13.

191

Back in the galley, the Captain increases rations so
as to keep you alive, but by now you are desperately
weak and hungry. You begin to lose track of time

192-193

with the monotony of rowing, but one day the evil
parrot which normally sits on the Captain's
shoulder flies below decks and lands close to you.
Settling, it launches into a diatribe of curses and
oaths. The hateful little pest is close enough to grab;
do you want to strangle the little horror (turn to 266)
or simply ignore it (turn to 393)?

192

Seeing the crossbow, the cunning Manticore real-
izes that it will gain no advantage by staying in the
air, so it lands to fight. You have time to draw a
sword (if you have one) before it gets to you; turn
to 102.

193
‘Look, Tl make a deal with you,’ says the
mongoose. ‘We'll go to Entertainer’s Square now,
and I’ll do some of those dumb little tricks the
tourists like to watch, and that'll earn you some
money, Then you let me go for a while — I’ve got
some business to attend to.’ After quizzing little
Jesper, you get him to admit sheepishly — if a
mongoose can be sheepish — that his business in-
volves paying a visit to a lady mongoose across
town. Jesper says that he will come back to you
when he hears you blow the Silver Whistle, which
only he can hear and which he can hear from miles
away. ‘So when you leave town I'll come with you
and look after you,’ he says. It sounds like a fair
deal, so you set off for Entertainer’s Square. Turn

to 53.

194-195

194
You are close enough to sense the elemental malice
and hatred for life which radiates from this evil
thing that was once human — and you had better
fight well! His iron-clawed hands are as good a
weapon as any blade!

NECROMANCER SKILLQ STAMINA 13

If you reduce the Necromancer’s STAMINA to 5 or
less, turn at once to 342.

195
Hotsalt the Herbalist can sell you any of the follow-
ing items:
Medicinal herbs 2 Gold Pieces per bag
Preservative spices 2 Gold Pieces per bag
Potion of Healing 4 Gold Pieces

MOSS You can buy, and carry, a maximum of two of each

Li ch item. The single Potion of Healing will restore 5
Me ' | YW points of STAMINA when you drink it, and you can
BEES yi a SNS, do this at any time except during combats. Now you
TN eT URNA » can continue shopping (turn to 384) or go elsewhere

’ in town (turn to 229}.

i

uti Ny

196~197

196
‘Oh, yer?’ says the doorman witha sneer. ‘Der boss,
‘e says don’t Jet people like you ~ scruffy — in ‘ere.
Push orf, sonny. Unless yer got a bit of gold about
yer, like.’ A quick haggle, and you learn that this
avaricious brute wants 4 Gold Pieces to let you in!
Will you:

Pay the 4 Gold Pieces? Turn to 344
Refuse and try to push past him? Turn to 295
Head off to check the back of

the building? Turn to 317
Leave and try Koyala’s Bar? Turn to 360
Leave and try the Gambling

Hall? Turn to 311

197
You feel the stinging venom in your veins. The bite
mark is discoloured and puffy, and intensely pain-
ful. If you have some Medicinal Herbs, turn to 370.
If you don’t, turn to 108.

198-199

198
There is a creature of some kind in the room! If you
have the Blindsight Skill, you can make out a little of
it: turn to 71. If you do not have this Skill, turn to

363.

199
Morning comes. You beach the rowing boat on the
estuary of the river which leads to Ashkyos. Search-
ing the boat in daylight, you make some lucky finds:
sharing the good fortune with your friend, you each
get 2 Gold Pieces that you found ina leather pouch,
and a small parcel of hard tack, enough for 2 meals.
You can eat this at once, or save one or both meals
for later (adding them to your Provisions). After a
short rest, you row down into Ashkyos itself and
make fast at a jetty in the docks area. Your friend has
the excellent idea of selling the boat and dividing

200

the proceeds! You don’t get rich from the trans-
action, but your share is 4 Gold Pieces, and that’s a
fair start! ‘May the gods go with you,’ says your
companion, ‘wherever you may head. I’m going to
find a good ship with a berth for an honest sailor,’
and he clasps your hand in farewell!

You are in Ashkyos, and now you have at least
some of the money you need! Turn to 229.

200

The wretched Orc snivels and whimpers all night,
keeping you awake; but just before dawn it stops,
Its body is cooling, and it has died of starvation. It
was very cruel to spare the creature a quick death in
combat and then to let it die slowly and in pain.
Deduct 1 point from your Luck. You must also lose
1 STAMINA point from lack of sleep. Gather your
possessions and travel on: turn to 390.

201-202

201
Your defeat of Captain Grotniss turns the tide of the
battle; his men are demoralized, and they soon
surrender. The riverboat’s crew cheer you and
serenade you with a round of ‘For he’s a jolly good
fellow’; then they ply you with food and drink- you
get enough to recover all lost sTAMINA without
having to use up any of your own Provisions.
What's more, the pirates’ plunder is taken from the
Death's Head and shared out, and you get 15 Gold
Pieces as a large share! The crew of the riverboat
press on and by nightfall you are in Rahasta. Turn
tO 364.

202
You manage to clamber about half-way up the
thirty-foot building when your hands miss a hold
and scrabble at thin air, and you fall. Deduct 4
points from your STAMINA. If you are still alive,
you decide not to risk another attempt. You can
either walk into the building (turn to 106) or go
elsewhere (turn to 4).

203-204

203

You manage to outrun most of the guards, but the
militia captain — a huge, battle-scarred Man-Orce -
chases determinedly after you and corners you ina
dead-end. You have to fight him!

MAN-ORC SKILL 8 STAMINA 8

If you win, you hear other guards coming — you
must flee at once. You’ve been seen now; add 4
points to your NOTORIETY. Turn to 229 to find
another district of town to visit.

204

You duck, avoiding the slobbering abomination
which smacks wetly into the wall behind you and
whimpers as it thrashes mindlessly about. Now you
close with the sword-wielding wizard: turn to 289,

205-207

205

The locals soon run out of patience with you as you
look for something that may deter them from attack-
ing you, and one of them strikes out at you witha
shortsword. Deduct 2 points from your STAMINA,
and now you have to fight. Turn to 371.

206

The strange hard tip of the metal torch bursts into
flame as you will it to do so! Just as you unlock and
open the portcullis, a wire basket of snakes drops
from a concealed overhead shaft and the snakes
spill out on to the ground, but they back away in
fear from the strange, flickering, silent flame of the
torch. You head down the passage beyond the
portcullis; tarn to 228.

207
The Luck Ring can be used just once. When you use
it, roll one die and halve the number rolled (round-
ing fractions up); this is the number of LUCK points
you regain through using the ring. You can perform
this action at any time except during a combat. Turn
back to 275.

208

208

In one corner of Entertainer’s Square a sudden roar
goes up, and you make your way to what looks like
a giant bull-ring to see what's going on. In the
ting, a huge Half-Ogre wielding a metal-studded
wooden club stands in triumph over the bloodied
body of a human warrior. This is gladiatorial combat
— in the depraved city of Ashkyos, this means
combat to the death!

Anyone can challenge the strutting Half-Ogre to
gladiatorial combat. If you wish to proclaim a chal-
lenge, you will be loaned leather armour, shield and
a sword if you do not already have them (loaned only
— you must return them after the fight). You get a
purse of 12 Gold Pieces if you are victorious. If you
lose, you die. The next combat, itis announced, will
be the last one of the current series — so it’s now or
never, if you want to fight the Half-Ogre! If you
want to issue a challenge and fight the Gladiator,
turn to 49. If you don’t fancy the prospect and wish
to go elsewhere in town, turn to 229.

209

209
Shanzikuul eyes you cautiously as you move across
to sit by him. You now see the warped Staff of
Power in his right hand: black wood, shod with
silver and bronze, ensorcelled with runes. It is
topped by a sculpted black skull with bloodstone
eyes and wide-open jaws and the sharp-fanged
teeth are unnaturally long. Just for a moment, you
think you can see a faint wisp of something arise
from it. That something was half-transparent, but it
seemed like a puff of elemental Chaos, twisted and
corrupted, savage and vile.

‘Power, warrior,’ whispers the demented mage,
and his hand tightens on the Staff. ‘Beautiful, raw
power. Let me tell you,’ and his voice rises with an
edge of hysteria to it, ‘all this’ - and he sweeps the
Staff round in an arc to take in the room — ‘this too is
forged from the Staff. It creates what I desire, from
the infinite possibilities of Chaos. It brings great
Chaos into existence, it warps and mutates, but it is
shaped by my will also, for | am power myself! An
Undying One!’ He half-laughs, half-cackles; he is

210

obviously mad, but don’t underestimate his cun-
ning! ‘Did you like my pretties?’ he sneers, pointing
to where the tiger-women have gone. You say
nothing.

You accept Shanzikuul's offer of food and wine, and
you regain 4 STAMINA points by eating the excel-
lent repast. Shanzikuul is offering you power too;
he knows a good right-hand man when he sees one.
He offers you whatever you want from the Staff's
power: might, luxury, hedonistic self-indulgence

.. anything you ask. As he raves on, you notice
that a sheathed sword tests by his left hand; you
also see that on his left hand he wearsa strange ring,
of platinum with gems inset. That ring screams
Magic at you. What are you going to do? Will you:

Accept Shanzikuul'’s offer of

power? Turn to 298
Try to grab the mage’s ring? Turn to 274
Try to knock the Staff from his

hand? Turn to 326

Attack Shanzikuul immediately? Turn to 289

210
The man loses his nerve. Obviously, he must fear
that if he kills the Dark EIFf, this will give you the
chance to strike at him before he can defend him-
self, so he dumps the body and turns to attack you

with a long, curved dagger!
KIDNAPPER SKILL 7 STAMINA

If you win, turn to 83.

211-213

211

If the snake bit you, turn to 197. If it did not manage
to bite you even once, you may continue your
journey: turn to 183.

212
A jug of white wine costs just 1 Gold Piece, and the
drink is light and refreshing - you recover 2
STAMINA points. However, you become slightly
tipsy, So you will have to reduce your sKrL by 1
point if you get involved in combat before you sleep
tonight (make a note of this),

The bar turns out to be a dead-end. The musicians
are terrible, the merchants’ conversation is filled
with talk of buying and selling, and it is growing
late. You decide to try your luck elsewhere; will
you go to Kanstrin’s Guursh Bar (turn to 64) or to
Stavian’s Gambling Hall (turn to 311)?

213
The Troll has no possessions of any kind. Cursing
your illtuck at encountering such a monster, you
struggle on through the extremely hot day. Turn
to 6.

214-215

214
“Your reward,’ the Necromancer says, dropping a
clinking bag into your hand. This contains 5 Gold
Pieces (add it to your Treasure). The Gnomes scuttle
off with the body and the Necromancer slowly
walks away. You can attack him (tum to 194) or
leave without attacking him (turn to 238).

215
Aiding the Captain was a smart move. Now you are
a ‘trusty’ slave, kept on better rations and allowed to
scrub the decks without your hampering chains!

After a few more days, you learn from the crew that
you are approaching land. As dusk descends, an-
other trusty slave sidles up to you and whispers, ‘I
have a plan to escape. Tonight the crew will be as
drunk as judges — they've made land, near enough,
and will be celebrating. We can take one of the
lifeboats and row away.’ His eyes move to a small
tarpaulin-covered rowing boat on the starboard
side. ‘It'll be only a mile or so to shore. Will you
come with me?’ If you agree to this plan, turn to 164.
If you decline to join in with this escape plan, turn
to 77.

216-219

216
Sliding down out of thin air comes Naas the Dark
Elf, clambering down his magical rope and drawing
his thin-bladed, wickedly sharp longsword. This
time he has no words for you, only murderous
hatred in his eyes!

DARK ELF SKILL 10 STAMINA 13

If you win, turn to 400.

217
The spellcaster’s body changes! From a corporeal
being he changes into a wispy, wraith-like appari-
tion and flies up into the air! His panicking helpers
flee, just in time to avoid the militia who can be
. a a heard shouting in the distance. You’ve got to run

Cee PO too, to avoid being arrested for grave-robbing! You
eras me manage to elude them, but your face was seen. Add
- ay 2 points to your NOTORIETY. Now, if you have
some money, turn to 89. If you have none at all, turn

to 377.

218
You make a grasp for the boy, but he swerves dettly
away and ducks down a back-alley, out of sight! If
you have the Tracking Skill, turn to 328. If you do
not, turn to 387.

219

You know enough about the behaviour of deer to be
able to get just close enough to pick up a heavy
stone and throw it at one of them before they all

OE
220-223

scatter. Roll two dice and add 1. If this total is less
than or equal to your SKILL, you bring down a deer:
turn to 312. If the total is greater than your SKILL,
you miss, and the deer run off: turn to 190.

220

You sleep comfortably and next morning eat a fair
meal; regain up to 4 lost STAMINA points. Turn to
229 to find another part of town to visit

221

As you snooze the afternoon away, a grey-green
shape slithers in through the cabin porthole! If
Jesper is with you, turn to 151. If you are alone, turn
to 51.

222

The Boots of Stealth act in the same way as the Move
Silently Skill: they give you the ability to sneak
quietly around in places where you would rather
not be heard! Turn back to 275.

223
If you are riding a camel, turn to 94. If you are not,
turn to 46.

224-227

224
Do you have the Climbing Skill? If you do, turn to
268. If you do not, turn to 380.

225
You must fight the sailors, who are armed with
sharp daggers, together. Roll two dice for the Attack
Strength of each of the three of you. The fighter with
the highest Attack Strength is the one who will land
an effective blow, causing damage, in that Attack
Round.

SKILL STAMINA
First CREWMAN 7 6
Second CREWMAN 6 7

If you win, turn to 252.

226
Jesper runs up to you — and then recoils. He has
sensed the sign of evil, and he runs off into the
distance, never to return. Turn to 73.

227

You are soon made aware that you are not fighting a
normal Dark Elf. Your enemy is very swift and
difficult to hit!

DARK ELF

Fight until either sTa MINA score — yours or that of
the Dark Elf —is reduced to 5 or below. At this point,
turn at once to 55.

SKILL 10 STAMINA 13

Taian “58 _ =

228-229

228

You make haste along the winding passage; per-
haps you are already being followed and hunted by
the wretched Mutants in this ghastly place. The
walls themselves seem to be infested with the forces
of Chaos: strange, eldritch, serpentine forms seem
to twist and writhe in the very stone, and it feels as
if the stone floor is writhing and sucking at your
boots as you speed along. You wonder, just how far
down does this nightmare dungeon descend .

You round a corner and come face to face with one
of Shanzikuul’s most ‘successful’ mutant creations.
Standing some eight feet tall, the Zoalinth’s four
eyes gaze balefully at you, and its taloned, eight-
fingered claws reach out towards you as it lumbers
forward. Twin crocodile heads top the barrel-
chested body of a bear, and powerful legs covered
in fur and feathers support the torso, while a long,
spined, lizard-like tail scrapes along the ground. On
its heads, a weird pattern of black and white bands
aks ah i ae radiates out at odd angles along its scaly skin from
e prs eo on ms 5 the central yellow snouts. Acid drools from its
nt : hoe : AG Ae mouths as it slavers for your flesh!
BONY Do you have a Silver Amulet? If you do, turn to the
Rraike paragraph with the same number as the number of
rays on that amulet. If you don’t possess this item,
you'll have to fight the horror, so turn to 296.

ote ler Te
Bah, Y

229
Ashkyos is divided into districts; these are shown
on the map on the inside front cover of this book.

ee,

229

You are now free to go where you wish. You can
visit:

The shops Turn to 384
The warehouses Turn to 185
Entertainer’s Square Turn to 53
The markets Tumn to 126
The docks Turn to 5
The infamous Old Quarter Turn to 26

When you are ready to leave the city, turn to 243
(make a note of this paragraph number now). If
your NOTORIETY total reaches 8 or higher, you
must leave the city at once to avoid being arrested by
the militia (keep careful track of your NOTORIETY
score, using the box for this on your Adventure Sheet)
so when it reaches 8 or more, turn to 243 imme-
diately!

230-231

230
You have killed a Demon, a feat to boast of if ever
you get back to a civilized land; for now, however,
who knows what enmities you may have aroused
im the dark, extraplanar realms? Setting aside this

dispiriting thought, will you:
Pick up the Demon’s sword? Turn to 180
Take a metal torch (if you don’t
have one)? Turn to 343
Leave and go elsewhere? Turn to 4

231

You descend the tomb stairs with the Gnomes. One
of them lights a torch so you can see your way down
the clean steps; there is little dust and no cobwebs,
but the air is chill, and you feel apprehensive. You
reach a mausoleum lined with family tombs, and
one Gnome takes a small iron bar from a bag he is
holding and hands it to you. ‘Get the lid off that
one,’ he says, pointing to a very fresh-looking cof-
fin. You prise the lid off and find a newly dead
corpse inside staring at you! The Gnomes hiss at
you to get the body out and cary it up. You can
decide that you have had enough of this (turn to 39)
or do as they ask (turn to 75).

232-233

232

Little Jesper does some somersaults and twists,
but his heart isn’t really in it. You get only 2 Gold
Pieces thrown to you by passers-by. Also, some of
the local militia start to give you long, hard looks;
they seem vaguely suspicious. Add 1 point to your
NOTORIETY.

Now it is time to let Jesper go after the object of his
affections, keeping the Silver Whistle to call him
when you leave town. Meanwhile, will you:

Stay in this district?
Go to the shops for supplies?
Go elsewhere in town?

Turn to 2
Turn to 384
Turn to 229

233
You snap into wakefulness as a floorboard creaks in
your room. Grabbing your sword from the side of
your bed, you leap up to confront your attacker. Itis
very dark, and unless you have the Blindsight Skill
you must deduct 2 from your SKILL for the duration
of this combat. Your enemy suffers no such disad-
vantage as he swishes at you with his longsword!

NIGHTPROWLER

If you win, turn to 276.

SKILL 7 STAMINA 7

234-236

234
The small! man looks fearful but ready to do his best
against you, and he shouts to someone behind the
door where he stands guard! If you have already hit
this man with one or more crossbow bolts, reduce
his st AMINA to the correct amount; otherwise, use
the figure given below for him.

FOOTPAD SKILL 8 STAMINA 7

If you win, turn to 118.

235

You awaken suddenly as your camel brays and
kicks. Standing over you, just about to cut your
throat, is a creature you can just make out faintly in
the moonlight — it is some kind of bizarre Orc — but
then you feel the pain of the blade swishing at you
and nicking your leg! Deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA. Turn to 292.

236
If you have a lantern, and/or the Blindsight Skill,
turn to 359. If you have neither, turn to 10.

ne ____E_____ _______._ —_—_

237-239

237
You must deduct 3 points from your STAMINA
because of the brute’s flogging, but finally he
lurches away and picks on someone else. Turn to

153.

238

Deduct 2 points from your LucK for abetting this
ghoulish servant of Evil in his foul work, and —
worse still — you find that you now bear an indelible
mark on your forehead which will increase your
NOTORIETY (make a note of this mark in the Notes
Box on your Adventure Sheet, and add 3 points to
your NOTORIETY}. Now it’s time to find some-
where to sleep for the night: turn to 27.

239
You order some bread and cheese and a pot of ale;
this costs 1 Gold Piece, but you regain up to 4 lost
STAMINA points for the refreshment. Nothing
other than the gambling catches your eye, so tum to
188.

240-241

240
Looking carefully about the market, you find a seller
of fine spices and herbs, and offer him the saffron.
After some haggling, he makes you a final offer of 15
Gold Pieces for the rare and much-prized spice,
which you are only too happy to accept! Now, will
you:

Hang around in the Market

district? Turn to 116
Go and spend some money at the

shops? Turn to 384
Visit some other part of town? Turn to 229

241
You now have Shanzikuul’s sk1Lv ring. This in-
creases yout SKILL by 2 points when worn; it can
increase your SKILL above its Initial level, and you
may add it to the SKILL bonus you already have for
any Magic Sword you may possess. (It is even
possible for your sKILL to exceed 12 with this bonus
if your Initial SKILL was high to begin with.) Whal’s
more, when you fight Shanzikuul in hand-to-hand
combat, you may subtract 2 from the sxILt rating
given for him, since you have taken his magical ring
away — make a note of this! However, the dark mage
has had time to get well away from you, and now he
prepares to cast a spell from his Staff as you head for
him; turn to 163. -

a a

——

nn! eT" ___

242-245

242
You have wasted the opportunities fate has sent you
for finding adventure or fortune here, as you eventu-
ally realize. The self-indulgent, mostly drunken,
pampered and perfumed clientele of this place area
waste of time. You leave in order to find a safe
sleeping-place elsewhere in town. Turn to 27.

243
It is time to leave the city of Ashkyos behind and
face the perils ahead. Lf you have a Silver Whistle,
turn to go. If you do not, turn to 73.

244
You sneak past the half-drunk Watch, clamber
down the ropes and into the sea, swimming away
towards the land to starboard. Turn to 178.

245
Exploring the cavern, you find some Treasure: 5

Gold Pieces scattered about. You also find the half-
dismembered body of a man and, lying close to him,
a hip-flask of strong brandy. This contains two goed
nips; each will restore 4 STAMINA points. If you
want to keep some (or all) of it for later, add it to
your Possessions. You can drink this at any time
except during a combat. You also find a scrap of
parchment which seems to be part of a message or
letter; the legible part reads:

. . . across the wretched land, with the aid I provide. We
shall meet close by the camp of the foolish dervishes,

re

246-247

Beware Naas the Dark One; he too seeks the Staff of
Power. His kind are silent, dangerous, and strike swiftly
and with deadliness. Remember that the Sacred relic is
within the Pilla . .

Clearly several other people are after the Staff which
you have come to take! Shanzikuul has many
enemies, but are they your enemies too? You have
little time to ponder, for you must continue your
journey: turn to 6.

246

You leap on to the stairs — and yelp in pain as your
feet tread on caltrops: evil, star-shaped, metal
spikes with cutting edges that stop you in your
tracks. Deduct 4 points from your STAMINA.
What's more, a dart from your enemy’s blowgun
hits you. Roll one die. If you roll a 6, turn to 67. If
vou roll any other number, turn to 392

247
Too late! You strike home at the vile thing just as it
sprays a veritable cataract of steaming acid, spat-
tered with green blood, all over you. Deduct 4
points from your STAMINA. If you are still alive,
turn to 382.

248-251

248
The guard, who looks half-crazed, is sure to be
strong; apart from his well-kept leather armour and
broadsword, the helm he wears is very strange. It
has a weird pattern of intertwined snakes on it
which seem to swirl and confuse you. You must
deduct 1 from your SKILL temporarily while he is
wearing this helm and you are fighting him. If you
want to try to snatch the helm from his head, turn to
127. If you want to fight without doing this, turn to

159.

249
Do you want to buy the mongoose? The man won’t
haggle, so you will have to pay the asking price of 3
Gold Pieces. If you haven’t got the money, or you
don’t want the mongoose anyway, turn to 181. If
you want to buy it, turn to 160.

250

Your companion wakes you, alerting you to danger.
‘There’s something coming,’ you are warned.
‘Smells like an Orc, but a bit different . . . not sure
what it is.” You grab your weapon in case you need
it! Turn to 292.

251
Panting with exertion after your fight, you look
around. The Manticore was in the middle of eating a
body and must have been angry at being disturbed!
You don’t want to look too closely at its half-eaten
victim, but the corpse might have something of

252

value on it if you search — and anything he has will
be of no further use to him. Checking, you discovera
strange silver amulet: from a central disc asym-
metric rays are set at irregular angles. Counting
these, you find the amulet has twenty-nine rays.
This number means nothing to you. Take the Silver
Amulet and note the number of its rays (add it to
your Possessions). The body also has 3 Gold Pieces
on it (add this to your Treasure).

You trudge on through the wretched heat. If you
were riding a camel until recently, do not forget that
you alone cannot carry more than 12 Provisions,
any more must be left behind. Again, if you do not
have a Ring of Endurance, you must deduct 3 points
from your STAMINA because of the heat; if your
STAMINA falls below 1, you collapse and die from
exhaustion! If you are stil alive, you make it to
Rahasta and enter the town. Turn to 364.

252
As you dispatch the second crewman, you notice
that he is wearing a good silver neck-chain; you
snatch this off. It is worth 5 Gold Pieces in barter,
and you can use it to pay for any goods you want to
buy, so add it to your Treasure.

253

Of course, the ever-present militia are rushing to
the scene. . .and you have just killed two men! You
escape through the back-alleys and side-streets, but
did one of them catch a glimpse of you? Add 1 point
to your NOTORIETY and make for another part of
town; turn to 229.

253
You agree, and the Necromancer tells you that he
has seen his enemy slip into the warehouses not
long ago. ‘He seeks that which you yourself seek; he
gets closer to it,” croaks a voice as dry as the dust of
Kabesh itself. You tum around and ascend the stairs
to seek the Dark EIf.

Fool! A shimmering pattern of spectral darts flies
from the fingertips of the Necromancer. Deduct 6
points from your sTAMiNA through intense chill
and pain; you have trusted an intensely evil and life-
hating creature and you have got the reward you
deserved! Now you are forced to fight; turn to 167.

2547255

254
Today you musi again eat 2 meals. The weather is
unpleasant now, growing increasingly hot and
humid, and all you can manage is to doze during a
desperately unpleasant night. The passengers on
board smell utterly revolting, come the morning. At
least you will be in Rahasta tonight . . .

. . except that you see a boat looming through the
tiver mists when you step up on deck to get some
fresh air. ‘It’s the Death’s Head!’ cries Captain Blint.
‘We're all dead men!’ A few hardy folk on board
draw weapons, but they are no match for the large
ballista which the river pirate carries and from
which a huge bolt comes flying, covered in burning
pitch! Roll two dice. If the total rolled is less than or
equal to your SKILL, turn to 307. If the total is
greater than your SKILL, turn to 59.

255
You knock the Staff of Power from Shanzikuul’s
hands and it flies, spinning, far across the room,
well away from the wizard. He screams in frustra-
tion and draws his sword: turn to 289.

256-257

256
‘My servant,’ croaks the evil one gleefully. Once
you served him of your own free will, and now you
will do so, whether you wish to or not. Your quest
ends in your own Undeath!

257

A cloaked figure moves quietly from the shadows to
sit with you. “Throw away that filth,’ the Dark Elf
says. ‘Drink this,’ and he produces a flask of fine
liquor, which smeils of herbs. Regain 4 STAMINA
points for drinking his sustaining potion. ‘You
saved my life, and Iam not ungrateful,’ he goes on.
‘We may have the same enemies, but at the last the
Staff of Power will leave Kabesh in my hands and
not yours. Do you understand me?’ Your nod of
Teply is unnecessary. ‘Let us not weaken ourselves
by fighting now. And get out of here — the scum in
this place will surely attack you if you don’t.’ The
Dark Elf gets up and is gone.

The locals look surly and are muttering; you decide
to take the Elf’s advice. If you haven’t slept here yet,
you must do so now; turn to 166. Otherwise, will
you:

Buy some food? Turn to 54
Buy a mount? Turn to 186
Leave for Kabesh at once? Turn to 114

258-261

258
You manage to sneak round a corner and the guards
fail to notice you. Turn to 353.

259
Careful discussion, using words of two or fewer
syllables (the creature at the door is unbelievably,
awesomely stupid), leads to the understanding that
payment of 2 Gold Pieces will get you inside. Will
you:

Pay the bribe? Turn to 344
Leave and go to Koyala’s Bar? Turn to 360
Leave and go to the Gambling

Hall? Turn to 311

260
You must deduct 4 points of damage from your
STAMINA, as the flying Manticore aims some tail
spikes at you, and two strike home. If you have a
crossbow and at least 1 bolt, turn to 192. If you do
not have a crossbow and at least 1 bolt for use with
it, turn to 79,

261

You can stalk the deer and sneak up to them,
making a running leap and trying to grab one of the
stragglers — it’s not much of a chance, but it’s better
than none, Roll three dice; if the total rolled is less
than or equal to your sk1LL, you down a deer and
break its neck: turn to 312: if the total is greater than
your SKILL, your attempt fails: turn to 190.

262-263

262
Returning here was very foolhardy after your pre-
vious experience in this part of town! You must Test
your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 305. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 320.

263

‘Ah,’ Baalberith exclaims, ‘it is the Talking Snake-
bane!’ He has heard Jesper mutter something about
having had enough travel for a while. Jesper

up at this grand-sounding title. ‘Little one,’ the
Warrior-Savant continues, ‘my father Qaaniqgatsi
spoke to me of you, and he said you were a prize
among prizes, better than flocks of goats and far
better than many wives!’ The mongoose purrs at
the flattery. ‘He was your father?’ Jesper exclaims,
‘Well! Did he tell you of the time when we . aie!

Silently you slip away, leaving them together in
animated conversation, Something tells you. that
the companionship of your little friend on your
journey has come to an end. However, Baalberith
will not let you go unrewarded for allowing Jesper
to stay with him, as the mongoose wishes; he will
provide sufficient food for 10 meals for you! (Add
these to your Provisions.) Now you head for the
tent that the nomads have set up for you; turn to
399.
264-266

264

Your enemy is surpnsingly swift and deadly — and
repulsive to behold! Maybe it was once human, but
the twin tentacles it has for arms, the beaked maw
full of tiny, razor-sharp teeth, and the scaly legs
ending in clawed eagle-like feet make you wonder
... but you have no time for wonder, only for
fighting to save your life!

CHAOS MUTANT SKILL7 STAMINA 8

If you win, turn to 182.

265
The Dwarfs let you know in no uncertain terms that
they don’t want your company! One of them spits
close by your boots while another picks at his dis-
coloured teeth with a dagger. You back off; will you
now:

Gamble with the men, if you

haven’t done so before? Turn to 397
Gamble with the Gnomes? Turn to 61
Leave and find somewhere to

sleep? Turn to 27

266

You grab the parrot and smother its squawks as you
wring its neck. Ramon, the slave next to you, pulls a
wing off and starts tearing at the stringy flesh with
his teeth! Raw parrot is scarcely a delicacy — but,
mastering your repulsion, you also tear at a few
morsels. Regain 2 STAMINA points. Now roll two

267

dice and add the results together. If the total is less
than or equal to your SKILL, turn to 346. If the total
is greater than your SKILL, turn to 107.

267

You have thirty seconds to carry out certain actions.
You may eat a meal (takes thirty seconds — there is
food on the table if you have no Provisions left),
drink a Potion if you can (ten seconds per Potion
drunk), use a magical Luck ring if you have one
(ten seconds), or draw a charge from a magic item if
you have one with charges (ten seconds per charge
drawn). You have other options; these, with the
time they take, are:

Read a magical book, if you
have one (thirty seconds)

Take a ring from Shanzikuul’s
hand, if you haven’t done so
before (ten seconds)

Turn to 149

Turn to 50

268-269
Run like the wind out of here
(thirty seconds) Turn to go
Retrieve the Staff of Power
(thirty seconds) Turn to 147
Take the amulet from Shanzikuul's
neck (ten seconds) Turn to 120

When you have selected and performed your
actions, turn to 216.

268
Gingerly, you search for handholds in the worn
stone, but the climb is not too tricky and you ascend
safely. Turn to 304.

269

A group of locals begins to edge slowly closer to
your table You get up to leave, but they seem to be
blocking your way. None has drawn a weapon yet,
but they could have blades hidden under their robes
and leather jacks, and there are many of them. Do
you have a mark on your forehead? If you do, turn
to 335. If you do not, turn to 72.

270-271

270
The Mutant Orc drops its weapon and spreads its
arms wide, seemingly surrendering. Can you trust
the monster? If you decide to kill the mutant, turn to
354. If you prefer to spare its life, turn to 115.

271
You examine the bodies of the guards but find
little of value. One has 1 Gold Piece (add it to
your Treasure) — but both possess swords, so, if
you don’t already have one, you can get one here.
You can even take both if you wish! (Record in your
Possessions what you do take.) You don’t have time
to strip them of their armour as well, for you hear
reinforcements approaching in the distance, and as
you flee you cannot be certain that they saw nothing
of you. Now you'd better find somewhere to sleep:
turn to 27.

272

272
The solitary inn in Rahasta is the Scapegoat, and
above it hangs a painted sign showing such an
animal being pursued by cleaver-wielding mutants.
You walk in and order some of the local beer (deduct
1 Gold Piece and add 1 STAMINA point). It tastes
revolting, but after such a hot day you could drink
almost anything. The hunchbacked landlord stares
pointedly at you, and his cat (which actually has
nine tails) tries to bite your hand as it paws in the air
for one of the succulent fat blowflies hovering by the
meat pies. The cat’s baleful green eyes gaze at you in
dislike as its razor-sharp whiskers twitch; its mouth
opens to reveal snagged, vicious fangs when it
hisses and spits at you! Do you have a Bronze
Bracelet? If you have, turn to 257. If you haven't,
turn to 269.

273-274

273

‘Fine,’ one of the Gnomes leers, and they head off
through the maze of back-streets, past wretches
puffing at foul-smelling pipes, freaks with horrid
mutations, and other lowlife sights and smells.
Eventually you reach the cemetery; the Gnomes
head for a big piece of sculpture looming over a
large crypt, and one of them expertly picks the lock
on the gates, opening the way down to the tomb.
The other lets out a morbid chuckle, and they
beckon you down the stairs. ‘Come on, we’re all in
this together,’ they gloat. You can decide to get out
of this (turn to 293) or enter the tomb with them
(turn to 231).

274
This isn‘t going to be easy. Roll two dice and add 2 to
the total rolled. If this new total is less than or equal
to your SKILL, turn to 105. If the total is greater than
your SKILL, turn to 294.

275

275

‘Suki’, as the diminutive female Elf who runs the
magic shop is known by her customers, does not
carry a great range of items, and they are expensive
~ there is huge demand for the artefacts she sells.
The prices she charges for items are listed below. If
you want to discover what a particular article does,
turn to the paragraph next to the item to read about
it.

Luck Ring (turn to 207) 6 Gold Pieces
Potion of Stamina (turn to6g9) 7 Gold Pieces
Ring of Endurance (turn to 340) 9 Gold Pieces
Boots of Stealth (turn to 222) 12 Gold Pieces

If you buy two or more items in one visit, Suki
will knock 2 Gold Pieces off the tofal price. How-
ever, each time you visit Suki’s shop, you gain 1
NOTORIETY point, beginning with this visit! You
can continue shopping after making any purchases
here (turn to 384) or go elsewhere (turn to 229).

a ee

276-278
276

You light the tiny lamp in your room to discover
who your assailant was, and you gaze in horror at a
foully mutated Dwarf. It has spiny suckers instead
of ears, ribbed and crab-like claws for hands, and its
skin is shiny with patches of ulcerated scar-tissue.
You cannot bear to stay in this room with this
stomach-turning corpse, Outside, though, dawn is
beginning to break, and at least you have gained
some sleep. There is nothing on the body besides a
rusty sword and 1 Gold Piece (add this to your
Treasure).

You go outside and sit in the early morning sun as
the squalid hovels disgorge their mutated occu-
pants. Will you now:

Leave immediately for Kabesh? Turn to 114
Try to buy some food first? Turn to 54
Try to buy a mount first? Turn to 186

277
Your former assailant has left a trail of slime drop-
lets from its tentacles which you can follow, and
they lead to a trapdoor cover, which you open; you
reveal a set of stone steps which descend far below
the ground! Tum to 290.

278

The Captain falls to the ground, gasping his last.
His scurvy crew — even the Orcs — cheer! You grab
the Captain’s scimitar and try to stroll away non-
chalantly. But people are pointing you out, and you
279

guess that the militia will get to hear about this —add
2 points to your NOTORIETY.

When you are away from the hubbub you realize
that the scimitar is a magical weapon! You may add
a bonus of 1 to your SKILL when using it — this will
allow you to go above your Initial skILL, provided
that Initial score was below 11 (the sword is not that
powerfully magical). The sword also casts a bright
light in a small radius when you command it to, so
in future you will not need a lantern for light. Gain 1
LUCK point for this excellent find, and try some-
where safer in town: turn to 229.

279
Today there is no work to be had in the Warehouse
district; all the merchants have enough labourers,
it seems. However, just as you are deciding to
try your luck elsewhere, a small, slender figure in
brown robes sidles up to you. You see brown,
ferrety eyes under the cowl, and a tanned, nut-
brown skin over a thin, sharp-featured face.
(Record in the Notes Box of your Adventure Sheet
that you have met Vesper!)

‘Interested in making some easy money?’ he says
casually as he tugs you by the sleeve into the shade

280-282

under the eaves of a building. You say you are; you
can hear him out, at least. ‘Be here at nine tonight.
Between now and then, just sit around, down the
road from Morganstern’s warehouse —’ he points
this out ‘— that’s where I have my little job planned.
[ just need a good look-out man. Plenty of easy
money to be made, my friend.’

It's obvious what he means. Will you:

Agree to his plan? Turn to 41
Decline, and go shopping for

items you need? Turn to 384
Decline, and go elsewhere in

town? Turn to 229

280
If you wrote down ‘metal torch’ turn to 206. If you
wrote down any other item (and no cheating!), turn
to 140.

281
You clamber up a drainpipe to the roof and escape
over the rooftops of the tightly packed buildings. By
the time you get safely away, you are tired and
chilled from the rain which has begun to fall; you
could do with somewhere warm and comfortable to
sleep. Turn to 27.

282
Jesper looks very relieved, and he prepares to set
off on his amorous exploit. ‘Don’t forget the
whistle,’ he reminds you. As he reaches the edge of

283-285

the square, he suddenly twists his head around and
winks at you. Then, without warning, he turns,
sinks his sharp little teeth into the leg of a fat
merchant standing near by, and runs off as his
victim howls with rage and limps after him. Look-
ing on, you catch the glint of metal on the ground
and walk over. There, lying on the ground, are the
coins the fat man dropped in surprise — 5 Gold
Pieces! Hastily you pick them up. Will you now:

Stay in this district? Turn to 2
Go to the shops for supplies? Tum to 384
Go to another district in the

town? Turn to 229

283
Roll two dice. If you roll 2-9, your companion bites
the head off the approaching menace before it can
get near you: turn to 183. If you roll 10-12, the snake
streaks past him: turn to 223.

284

You spend further time searching; you must eat
another meal, You find 2 Gold Pieces in one house,
which you can add to your Treasure — but this is not
really what you are looking for. Do you want to
backtrack to the house where you thought you saw
someone (turn to 18) or try another part of the ruins
(turn to 4)?

285
You are just about to get into the boat when you
realize there is a sleeping crewman in it already! As

286

quietly as you can, you give hima hard knock on the
head to keep him asleep, drag him out and leave his
body tangled up in the ropes at the side of the ship.
You slip away under cover of darkness. Turn to 199.

286

You grab the helm and throw it to the ground. As
you do so, the warrior’s eyes roll back in his head
and he falls to the floor in a swoon. He manages to
utter a few words, before his soul leaves his body
in a ghastly, convulsing fit; he blesses you and
whispers, ‘The Moon Sword.’ Then he is dead,
released from the chaotic, warping control of the
malign helm which was put upon him. Gain 2 LUCK
points for releasing this man from his torment.

You search the room and find a sword with a
moonstone set in the hilt, This is a keen-edged blade
and its balance feels good in your hand. It is a Magic
Sword with very useful powers! First, it will add 1 to
vour SKILL when you use it, and it cam increase your
SKILL above Initial level without restriction (so if

—— ll itll
287-288

your Initial sKILL was 12 and you have not lost any
SKILL points, your SKILL is 13 with this sword).
Secondly, the Moon Sword contains precious magi-
cal revitalizing charges — just three of these. If you
draw a charge from the Moon Sword — you can do
this at any time except during a combat—roll one die
and add 1. This is the number of points of STAMINA
you regain from drawing this magical charge. Re-
member to keep track of how many charges you use
and how many of the original three remain.

You leave the chamber with this excellent find (add
it to your Possessions). You can now head straight
towards the portcullis (turn to 352) or double back
towards the door now opposite you if you have not
been that way round the ledge before (turn to 82).

287
In one of your dreams a Wraith flitted down and
touched your hand with a touch so chill that it felt as
if the very marrow of your bones was freezing. . .
and you awaken to find an Iron Ring on your left
index finger! You cannot remove this; record in your
Notes that you are now wearing this ring. What
evils may it threaten you with? Who can say? Turn
to 229 to find a part of town to visit on this new day.

288
Deftly, you grab the mule round the neck and bring
it stumbling to the ground, subduing it. With a few
words and neck-rubs, you render it docile again.
Turn to 8.

289-291

289
Shanzikuul has lived for centuries, defying death at
the hands of innumerable powerful enemies. You
will have to be brave and very fortunate to over-
come this supernaturally powerful magician!

SHANZIKUUL

If you reduce Shanzikuul’s sTAMINA to 2 or below
without killing him, turn at once to 306.

SKILL 13 STAMINA 16

290
This must surely be the entrance to the Chaos Pits,
and the Mutant was guarding them. You can go
down these steps by turning to 173. If you do not
want to descend immediately, you can find another
part of the ruins to visit by turning instead to 4 —
make a note that, when you are ready to enter the
Chaos Pits, you can do so by turning to paragraph

173.

291
Soon you see some patrolmen making their way
towards you, so you slip round the corner and hide
in the shadows out of the moonlight. Turn to 353.

292~293

292

In the moonlight you see your enemy: a horribly
mutated Orc, with a broadsword clutched in a claw
like a lobster’s. Its other arm looks more like a frilled
tentacle, with suckers adhering to a membrane. Its
head is almost hairless, with just a few clumps of
wire-hard fur on its scalp and face. It snarls at you,
then attacks viciously!

MUTANT ORC SKILL 7 STAMINA

If you reduce the Mutant Orc’s sTAMINA to 2
points or less, turn at once to 270.

293

You decline, saying that this sounds bad, and the
Gnomes look askance at each other. “You said too
much,’ one hisses. “We can’t let him go now. He
could tell the militia,’ and the two lithe little crea-
tures draw long daggers and set about you. You
have to fight both gnomes together. Each Attack
Round, roll dice to determine the Attack Strengths
for all three of you. The combatant with the highest
Attack Strength is the one who will cause damage
that Attack Round. When you have killed one, of
course, you are back to normal one-to-one combat —
if you kill one!

SKILL STAMINA
First GNOME 6 6
Second GNOME 7 5

If you win, turn to 355.

294-296

294
You make a grab for the ring but miss — and then
something awful happens: there is the briefest of
flashes from the amulet encircling Shanzikuul’s
neck, and then he is at the other end of the table
from you; he raises his Staff of Power as you get up
and lunge desperately to get at him! Turn to 163.

295

All you get for your pains is a blow from a fist, the
size of a small ham, landing resoundingly on the
back of your neck. Deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA. You're not going to be able to get in here
now, and you can’t return here. You can
Koyala’s Bar (turn to 360) or the Gambling Hall (turn
to 311).

296
Talons, rows of wickedly snagged teeth and drool-
ing acid come bearing down on you. Even you
can rarely have fought anything as savage as the
mutated, murderous Zoalinth!

ZOALINTH SKILLY

If you reduce the srAMINa of the Zoalinth to 2 or
below, turn immediately to 309.

STAMINA 14

297-298

297
The locals gasp at the sight of the item. “The warrior
has fought the Stealer of Deaths,’ one of them
mutters, and they back away in grudging awe.
Slowly and cautiously, you make your way out,
avoiding their gazes.

Now, if you haven't slept in Rahasta, you must do
so; turn to 166. Otherwise, will you:

Buy some food? Turn to 54
Buy a mount? Turn to 186
Leave for Kabesh immediately? Turn to 114

298
So be it. You become the puppet of the mage, and
you are soon one more warped servant of Chaos.
Corrupted and depraved, before long you will get
your just deserts at the hands of a braver and better
warrior than yourself!
299—300

299
Using the ball and chain as a weapon, you inflict
damage as if you had a sword in your hand, scoring
2 points for a successful hit. But you must deduct 1
point from your sKIL1 for the duration of this fight
because of having to fight with such an unwieldy
weapon.

TENTACLE SKILL?

If your STAMINA is reduced to 3 or less, turn to 357.
If you win, turn to 130.

STAMINA 6

300

Returning here is a definite mistake! You walk
straight into a bunch of guards, who take one look at
you and shout, “That’s one of them! I saw him with
Vesper the thief!’ They chase after you as you flee
into the unfamiliar back-streets. Roll two dice and
add 1. If this total is less than or equal to your SKILL,
turn to 203. If the total is greater than your SKILL,
turn to 310.

301

301
‘Don’t go to the hostelry,’ Jesper tells you, ‘it’s a den
of thieves and brigands. A fonmer master of mine
did a favour for a local family here, and we may be
able to get you a bed for the night with them.’
Taking his advice, you knock on the door he leads
vou to, and, after a few words with the head of the
family, you are taken in. Their eldest son was saved
from a Rock Troll by a warrior whom Jesper once
served, and they are glad to see the mongoose
again. You only get porridge and scraps, but it’s hot
and the pan of porridge seems bottomless. You stuff
yourself before sleeping well in front of the fire;
regain 4 STAMINA points.

You wash off the dust of the Dead Lands, and walk
out into the bleary morning sun. Will you:

Buy some food? Turn to 54
Buy a mount? Turn to 186
Leave for Kabesh at once? Turn to 114

302

302
As you touch the altar, a glimmer of light appears
within it, and suddenly a pillar of flame rises to the
ceiling and a figure forms within it: a bull-like body
with powerfully muscled arms that are bound with
bands of black metal, etched with strange runes,
thick, hooved, black legs and a face which cannot be
seen through the wreath of flame surrounding it,
hissing and dripping yellow-red globules of fire on
the stone floor! The terrifying Demon is wielding a
flaming sword and whip, and breathes fire at you as
well!

You must fight this horror! Each Attack Round, you
must roll one die; if you roll 1-4, the creature’s
breath hits you and you must suffer 2 points of
damage to your STAMINA in addition to any
damage the Demon’s weapons inflict!

FIRE DEMON SKILL 10 STAMINA 10

The first time you land a blow on the Demon, turn at
once to 137. If you win, tum to 230.

393~304

303

You wake up in the morning with a thumping
headache; you have been left, dumped in a back-
street. Any Treasure and magic items you have
bought or found have been taken from you (but not
the 2 Gold Pieces you kept in your bootheeis!), and
you must adjust your Adventure Sheet accordingly. If
you had a sword, this too has been taken from you!
Turn to 229 to find another part of town to visit.

304

After your exertions you crouch on a small ledge
just below the roof of the building, looking intently
at the marks in the stone. You see that some faded
gilt etchings read ‘PILLASTRIUM' - the name of
the building presumably. Below these letters, an
arrow is sculpted; it protrudes from the surface of
the stone and points very slightly east of south. The
arrow has flames etched on the shaft, and it is set
inside a circle from which many asymmetric lines
radiate — a strange and highly unusual design.

You clamber down the building; now you can either
enter it (turn to 106) or go somewhere else in the
ruins (turn to 4).

305-397

305

You just manage to avoid running straight into a
large patrol of militiamen — but they see you, and
two of them fire off crossbow bolts which hit you as
you flee. Deduct 4 points from your sTAMINA, and
add 2 points to your NOTORIETY. If you are still
alive, find some other part of town to visit! Turn to
229.

306
Shanzikuul’s amulet glimmers! Work out the Attack
Strengths for the two of you in this Attack Round. If
you have the higher Attack Strength, tum to 349.
If Shanzikuul has the higher Attack Strength, turn
to 3.

307
The missile narrowly misses you, but streaks past
and crashes into a hapless passenger, who dies
immediately. Turn to 358.

308-310

308

You try to tiptoe past — but the guard turns around
at just the wrong moment, utters a bellow and
comes flying at you, sword in hand. You rush to
meet him inside the doorway so that the monsters
below may not see you fighting, The mad gleam in
the eyes of your opponent warns you he may be
very dangerous! Turn to 248.

309
The Zoalinth rears back and gives a sickening
gargle, as though trying to clear its throat of a mass
of thick phlegm. Roll two dice. If the total rolled is
less than or equal to your SKILL, you may kill it now
(turn to 382). If the total is greater than your sXiL1,
turn to 247.

310
You can try to fight, but there are so many of the
militia present, as reinforcements arrive, that you
are easily overpowered and carted off to prison.
In this harsh land, garrotting is the punishment
for most crimes, and your adventure ends with a
strangled gargle at a public execution!

311-312

311
You stride into Stavian's Gambling Hall, past the
beefy guards at the door who give you intimidating
stares, and into the smoke-filled gambling den
itself. Small groups of men, a sprinkling of Dwarfs,
and a group of four Gnomes sit concentrating on
their cards and dice, and there‘s even a solitary
Half-Ogre sitting with a stack of goid. at the knuckle
bones table (where they use real knuckle-bones to
play the game). Will you sit down at a table and
venture a few Gold Pieces at a game (turn to 188),
head for the bar and order some food and drink
(turn to 239) or, deciding it’s time to find a place to
sleep, leave here (turn to 27)?

312
You now have some delicious raw meat! However,
you may eat it only if you have a lantern with some
oil in it for cooking; if you do, turn to 376. If you do
not possess a lantern with some oil, the meat is
useless to you: turn to 190.
313-314

313
You have overcome a powerful priest of Evil! Gain 1
LUCK point. However, his chainmail is pierced and
of no value to you, although you can take his
warhammer if you have no weapon of your own
(this does the same damage as a sword). He also has
a jade neck-chain worth 10 Gold Pieces which you
may add to your Treasure, but nothing else of value.
Turn to 4 to search further!

314
Entertainer’s Square is packed with sightseers and
the usual assortment of beggars, minstrels, jug-
glers, mime artists and similar folk making their
living; but you see and hear nothing unusual or
particularly interesting here, You head for another
part of town: turn to 229.

315-316

315
‘Let us work together. Help me and I will help you.
In these ruins prowls one of the Dark Elves, an arch-
enemy of mine. Bring me his head and I will give
you a pair of Skeletons to help you in your quest,’
the Necromancer urges. Will you agree to this deal
(turn to 253) or attack him (turn to 167)?

316
You'll get to the wizard soon— but not soon enough!
His Staff conjures a writhing ball of slime-dripping
tentacles, beaks and mucus, and the disgusting
creation flies through the air, straight at your face!
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 204. If you
are Unlucky, turn to 95.

317-319

317
Heading for the back of the building, you notice a
shadowy figure standing at the top of a flight of
stairs leading up to the upstairs rooms. Seeing you,
he raises a long, slim object to his lips, and you hear
a smail dart zip past your head! Will you:

Run away from here? Turn to 128
Run up the stairs to attack? Turn to 169
Fire back at the figure with a
crossbow (if you have one)? Turn to 143
318

Now you must Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn
to 285. If you are Unlucky, turn to 37.

319
The attitude of the nomads is not very friendly to-
wards you, but they do offer you shelter, as their
code of honour demands. Something in their eyes
tells you they do not value gold highly, and you do
not make the mistake of offering them any.

You are ushered into a small tent, but, just as you
are looking fondly at the blanket they have offered
you, a messenger comes over to invite you to the
tent of their leader, who wishes to speak with you.
You cannot refuse; turn to 131.

a

320-321

320

Your first day of travel is peaceful enough, but you
must eat 2 meals during the day. You sleep safely in
the open; turn to 367.

321

The old Temple was clearly built for the worship of
some ancient and long-forgotten deity — but was it
one of Law or Chaos, Good or Evil? You cannot tell,
but you enter, intending to find out.

Inside, you find an intact altar standing in the centre
of a large circle in which flames are etched. Round
the edge of the circle is a ring of ten upright metallic
torches, their ends composed of a hard, incense-like
substance. On the floor, dust and debris made up
of shrivelled cloth and paper and decayed wood
hamper your steps slightly. Above you is a semi-
circular dome of dark-tinted glass in the ceiling; this
allows a little light to enter the room. What will you
do now? Will you:

Investigate the altar? Turn to 302
Take one of the torches? Turn to 343
Leave and go elsewhere? Turn to 4

322-323

322

‘Come, my good warrior, will you not serve me?
Together we can have all we could wish for in this
place,’ the shrivelled figure whispers. If you are
prepared to listen, turn to 315. If you prefer to
attack, turn to 167.

323
‘Buy a couple of those weird-looking eggs on that
stall,” the mongoose advises you sagely. ‘We can
make some money out of them.’ The Man-Orc
merchant wants 1 Gold Piece each for the two large,
brown-veined, yellowish eggs which, he says, are
local delicacies, very tasty indeed. If you want both
the eggs (he won’t sell them singly) you will have to
pay him 2 Gold Pieces for them: turn to 7. If you can’t
pay for them, but want to have them, turn to 193. If
you have the money but won't pay for them, turn to

373:

324-325

324
The robed man mumbles some sorcerous phrases
and touches the flat of his warhammer before strik-
ing at you. You have a tough fight on your hands!

EVIL PRIEST

Each of the first three times the Priest succeeds in
striking you, his blow causes 3 points of damage
rather than the usual 2, due to the spell he has cast
on his weapon; after this, his blows cause the usual
2 points of damage. If you defeat him, turn to 313.

SKILL 10 STAMINA 11

325

You find 4 Gold Pieces on the body of the footpad
(add this to your Treasure) and you are just pocket-
ing this when a soft, keen voice whispers behind
you. ‘I had not expected to be rescued by you,’
murmurs the Dark Elf, who has evidently regained
consciousness very quickly. He is sitting up, and his
hand is resting on the hilt of his sword, although he
has not drawn it. Deep-violet eyes look impassively
at you as he awaits your reply. Will you attack him
(turn to 227) or talk with him (turn to 21)?

326-327

326
Roll two dice and add 1 to the total rolled. If this
new total is less than or equal to yoursKILL, turn to
255- If the total is greater than your SKILL, tum
to 4125.

327

The weather has changed! Cloudy skies and a fresh
wind bring cool weather and respite from the re-
morseless sun. You must eat 2 meals today, but your
journey is safe as you stride out through the blasted
Dead Lands. No creatures seem to exist here: no
birds in the skies, no buzzing insects, no scurrying
lizards on the broken fragments of rock, not even a
straggly plant clinging to life in a rock crevice. At
night, you sleep uneasily but safely below a gibbous
moon which gazes balefully over the broken land,
and you wake to early-morning sunshine that
promises more oppressive heat.

On your second day you are getting close to Kabesh
a5 you press on. Once again, you must eat 2 meals
today. Further, if you do not have the Ring of
Endurance, you must lose 3 points from your
STAMINA due to the baking heat,

— =
328

Wearily you stagger through the last stretch of the
Dead Lands, leading to the ruins. Before you on
your left you can see some tents pitched near a small
pool, where beasts of burden are tethered, and
swarthy, robed nomads are eyeing you sus-
piciously. Do you have a mark on your forehead? If
you do, turn to 395. If you do not, turn to 319.

328

Slalfully pursuing the criminal, you manage to lay
hands on the lad as he is about to disappear into a
crowded bazaar. You grasp the bag, but the little
thief squirms free of your grip and scuttles off. The
merchant and his men arrive soon after, and the fat
man congratulates you on recovering his stolen
wares; as you hand over the bag, he presses 6 Gold
Pieces on you as a reward (add this to your Trea-
sure), ‘Fine fellow!’ he says. ‘Do you need work? |
have a cargo in today and | could use a strong fellow
like you to help unload it. I'll pay you a fair wage.’
Will you:

Accept his offer of a job? Turn to 86
Decline politely and go shopping? Turn to 384
Decline politely and head

elsewhere? Turn to 229

329-330

329
During a long, exhausting day, you must eat 2
meals, before you settle down to sleep. Are you
riding a camel? If you are, turn to 122. If you are on
foot, turn to 35.

330
You hand Patriarch Kanestin the magical folio. His
eyes fill with evil pleasure as he takes it in his
trembling hands, and he cackles at the evils deep
within the later parts of the book. Deduct 1 point
from your LUCK for helping this evil man; but he
does at least tell you where the entrance to the
Chaos Pits is: it is somewhere in the warehouses.
He also knows that there is a trapped portcullis in
the Pits, and the trap can somehow be avoided by
magical fire, but again he can give you no details. ‘Tt
won't make any difference anyway,’ he gloats,
‘Shanzikuul eats people like you for breakfast!’
Then he recites a spell from the book and is gone!

Now you can either head for the warehouses to look
for the entrance to the Chaos Pits, if you haven’t
found them before (turn to 146), or search
elsewhere in the ruins (turn to 4).
331-333

331
You board the riverboat bound for Rahasta. The
Smeraglion is an elderly tramp and doesn’t inspire
confidence in you any more than does River Cap-
tain Blint, a bad-tempered and cowardly oaf.
However, the boat lurches out of Ashkyos, full to
the gunwales with shabby and disreputable people
laden down with crates, bags and sacks — not to
mention the dogs, chickens and goats accompany-
ing them. You go to your cramped quarters and
rest. Food isn’t part of the ticket — you must eat 2
meals from your own Provisions today. Turn to 25.

332
If you have the Move Silently Skill, you get past
safely; turn to 352. If you haven’t, turn to 308.

333
Do you have an Iron Key? If you have, turn to 396. If

you haven’t, turn to 58.

334-336

; 334
You catch only fragments of a conversation, but you

do hear one of the crew curse and say that having a
Dark Elf on board is bad luck. ‘But he seems honest
and decent enough,’ comes the reply. You also
think you hear the name Kabesh mentioned, which
makes you wonder . . . tum to 172.

335
‘The Mark of the Death Stealer!’ one of the locals

spits, and weapons are drawn. You will have to
fight your way out, and it wil] not be easy! Turn to

371.

336
You are taken by surprise as a serrated tentacle
wraps round your throat and begins to squeeze
your windpipe, choking the life out of you! Deduct 3
points from your $T AMINA. Turn to 264 to fight the
thing which is trying to kill you, and you must fight
this combat under special disadvantages. First, you
must deduct 2 points from your skIL1 for the
duration of the fight. Second, you lose 1 point from
your STAMINA @utomatically each Attack Round
from the pressure round your neck! Both these
penalties apply until you have killed your assailant.
337-338

337
The Old Quarter is a seething morass of degeneracy

and moral turpitude. You sit watching leprous beg-
gars, Man-Orcs, hunchbacks and shady-looking
merchants with their brutish bodyguards wander-
ing round the streets. All human life is here — and
quite a lot which isn’t exactly human, too. You are
just looking around to check up on the names of
streets and bars when suddenly a group of men
comes running towards you, chasing a runaway
mule which is heading straight at you! Will you try
to stop the mule (turn to 74) or get out of the way
(turn to 394)?

338

‘The tome is in one of the tombs of the old
mausoleum,’ Kanestin mutters, ‘but the Master of
the Undead may also be in that place.’ He is clearly
fearful of that creature! You can either head for the
mausoleum straight away (turn to 109) or go
elsewhere in the ruins (turn to 4) — if you find the
tome and wish to give it to Kanestin, you can do so
by turning to the paragraph with the same number
as the one in the book’s title.

339-349

339
If you have ever eaten boiled cardboard laced with

pine-needle pulp, you already know what the vis-
cous, gelatinous sludge tastes like. If you haven’t,
this is a new experience for you. Vaguely repellent
it may be, but it is - amazingly enough — highly
nutritious! Regain 6 STAMINA points as you gulp
down as much as you can before the warning foot-
falls you can hear in the distance get too close; you
also have time to tip some sludge into a waterskin
for 2 more meals {add 2 to your Provisions). Now it
is time to move smartly out of the room, so will you
head for the portcullis (turn to 352) or backtrack
round to the right side of the ledge if you haven't
been that way before (turn to 117)?

340
The Ring of Endurance helps you to resist the effects
of extreme cold and also — more importantly in Khul
— extreme heat, which would normally sap your
STAMINA. If you buy this article, later references
will instruct you on the precise effects the ring has.
Return to 275

341-343

341

A heavy dew falls just before a searing sun rises in
the sky, and you are able to collect enough moisture
to keep going. Tonight should see you in Rahasta,
where you will be able to rest and buy food for
the last leg of the journey to Kabesh. You set off
wearily, squinting into the heat-haze in the
distance.

Your hopes for an undisturbed day are suddenly
dashed: just as you are rounding a ridge, a weird
shape lumbers into the air in front of you. The
Chaos creature has a lion’s body covered in mottled
black fur, huge leathery wings, an almost human
head, and a long, green, scaly tail, covered in knob-
bled spines. The Chaos Manticore fires a volley of
spines straight at you! Turn to 260.

342
The Necromancer will now try to cast a spell! If he
has the higher Attack Strength in any Attack Round
from now on, he will be able to cast it: turn to 217. If
you win, turn to 123.

You take one of the metal torches; add this to your
Possessions. Now you can either investigate the
altar, if you haven't done so already (turn to 302), or
leave and go elsewhere (turn to 4).
344-346

344
You hand over the money and in return the ugly

brute gives you a nasty smile, displaying the full
range of blackened stumps of his yellowish-green
teeth. You hope the people inside are more agree-
able! Turn to 148.

345
The warrior falls dead at your feet. You look around

at the large array of weapons here — perhaps some of
them are magic, but you have no way of knowing,
and taking pot luck is pointless, You leave: you can
either make straight for the portcullis (turn to 452) or
double back round the left side of the ledge, if you
haven't been that way before (turn to 82),

346
The Captain comes below in search of his parrot;
clearly he suspects that someone has done away
with it, but he can find no clues, and nobody gives
you away. Fora little while he flails away with a cat-
o’-nine-tails at some of the slaves, but he is drunk
and his blows do little harm. Turn to 77.

347-349

347
You can use the spices to preserve what remains of

the cooked meat, and you may add up to 6 to your
Provisions Box. (You cannot carry more than 12
Provisions in all, of course — unless you are riding
a camel, in which case you can carry up to 24 Pro-
visions.) You journey on: turn to 190.

348

You grab the Assassin’s bag of gold and make a run
for it — but the ever-vigilant militia have just wit-
nessed you killing someone in broad daylight and
set off in pursuit! You manage to get away, but you
must add 3 points to your NOTORIETY. Stil, at least
you've got the 8 Gold Pieces in the Assassin’s bag!
Turn to 229 to find somewhere else to visit.

349
You strike down the Master of Chaos! Bloodied, his

body falls — and as it does, an event of unutterable
horror takes place. The mage’s face, frozen in terror,
twitches briefly, and the eyes roll over in their
sockets, to stare in paralysed horror at the tiny,
malefic fiend that flits towards him. You cannot
bear to watch the fiend consuming Shanzikuul’s
soul, Turn to 267,
350-351

350
The locals hesitate for just long enough to show that
they might be bought off. You reach into your
pocket for some gold. Roll one die, re-rolling any
roll of 1 (to get a number between 2 and 6); this is the
number of Gold Pieces the locals will demand. If
you can’t, or won’t, pay this much, you will have to
fight after all, so turn to 371. If you can buy your way
out, you will still have to leave Rahasta at once: turn
to 114; however, you do have time to buy food, if
you wish to, before you go. You can do this by
turning to 54 (but make a note that you must then
to 114 immediately afterwards).

351
The militia are out in force today; there are rumours
of grave-robbing, murder and thievery — enough to
make even the militia take notice! You don’t want
to be watched too closely by these brutes, so you
decide to find another part of town to visit. Turn to
229.

352-353

352
The portcullis is made of thick iron bars, and a

massive lock prevents you from simply lifting the
barrier. There is also a kind of pulley device on
the opposite side which looks suspiciously like
the trigger for a mechanical trap of some sort. If
you have an Iron Key, turn to 103. If you do not
have this item, turn to 161.

353
After a short wait, Vesper climbs out through a

small window at the back of the warehouse, with
his sack well stuffed. ‘Good man,’ he whispers.
‘Let’s go and share this out!’

Inno time, you are weaving through a maze of small
streets in the Old Quarter of the town, where Ves-
per lives. Rowdy drinking dens, gambling houses
and even more dubious establishments line the
filthy thoroughfares, and drunks and wide-eyed
smokers of suspicious-looking water-pipes reel
around. At last Vesper arrives at his home, unlocks
the door and ushers you in; after feeding his cat, he
sits down with you

354-355

Soon you are feeling refreshed by a meal of cold
jamb and a mug of mulled wine (regain 4 STAMINA
points), and enriched by four bags of saffron. ‘Two
hundred and forty grammes in total,’ Vesper says.
‘You can get a good price for that in the markets.’
(Add this to your Possessions, and be sure to record
the weight!) ‘Don’t go back to the Warehouse dis-
trict, though — I have a feeling we may have been
seen as we ducked past that last bunch of guards,
coming out.’ The thief is happy to let you sleep on
his floor, and in the'morning will you:

Talk further with Vesper? Turn to 111
Head for the markets to sell the
saffron? Turn to 240
Go somewhere else in town? Tur to 229
~ ar
354

You. kill the Mutant Ore (if you don’t have a sword,
you can pick his up and use it to kill him — add the
sword to your Possessions), You settle back to
sleep: turn to 390.

—~

355
Searching the bodies of the Gnomes, you find that

one has a pouch containing 5 Gold Pieces and the
other has a small bag with two crossbow bolts. Each

356-357

is a magical bolt, usable only once {fired from a
crossbow, of course!), and will add 1 point to your
SKILL when you fire it. Add these items to your
Possessions and the money to your Treasure.

Soon you hear the pattering of booted feet and the
clinking of chainmail. The militia! Time to get out of
here and find a place to sleep. Turn to 27.

356

The Old Coliseum is a circular stadium in ruins; it is
formed by concentric rings of stone descending to
an arena which is half-filled with clogging dust and
sand. There is a wide entrance passage leading in,
the roof of which is supported by pillars; some of
them have collapsed to the ground, and others look
distinctly unstable. If you want to investigate this
entrance, turn to 157. If you want to go elsewhere,
turn to 4.

357

Suddenly a lithe figure clad in a dark cloak stands
beside you, severing the tentacle with a black-
bladed, razor-edged longsword! You look up at
your helper — a Dark Elf! Sheathing his sword, he
squints up at the light then turns on his heel — but
not before staring pointedly at you! Does he suspect
something? However, he says curtly to the Captain,
‘Most of your slaves would not have tried to help
you. I didn’t see too many of your crewmen in
evidence either. You should reward this man,’ and
then he clambers down the forecastle steps to his
cabin. Turn to 130.

fe

358-359

358

The Death’s Head is closing rapidly to boarding
range. You have time to perform one quick action —
such as drinking a potion (if you have one) but not
time to eat a meal! — before the pirates swarm on to
the riverboat and set about the hapless passengers
and crew. For a moment, a path is clear to their
leader, the villainous and battle-scarred Captain
Grotniss who is urging on his cut-throat crew with
waves of his broadsword. Will you go straight for
the Captain (turn to 81) or try to pick off one or two
of the other pirates (turn to 189)?

Among the crumbling and useless paper, you can
make out a small wooden casket, the runes and
sigils upon it faded and illegible after so many years.
You open it, and inside you discover a small golden
ball with gem insets and an inscription that you can
read more easily in the light of day outside. The
inscription says, simply, Hazdur. If there is someone
you want to give this to, you already know which
paragraph to turn to. Otherwise, turn to 4 to visit
another area in the ruins.

360-362

360

As you approach the Wine Bar, you observe a
commotion taking place as two men — thieves, prob-
ably — are chased into the place by the militia. You
hear breaking glass and shouts coming from inside!
You decide not to enter after all. You can reconsider
and return to the Guursh Bar instead, getting in by
trying either bribery (turn to 259) or bluff (turn to
47), or make for the Gambling Hal! (turn to 311).

361
The Troll has left visible tracks during its meander-
ings. If you want to follow them, even though this
means taking a diversion westwards, turn to 174. If
you decide not to bother, turn to 6.

362
suddenly a pair of hefty patrolling militia guards
loom up from round the corner; they are already
close to you and are coming closer! Do you have the
Move Silently Skill? If you do, turn to 258. If you
haven’t, turn to 154.

ee Se en ee

363-364

363

You can hear a large creature moving about, but you
can see nothing. The first inkling you get about
where it is is when a lashing blow grazes your leg —
deduct 2 points from your STAMINA. You can run
away if you want to — but the creature will get in
another strike for 2 more points of damage if you do;
if you choose to make a run for it, turn back to 4. If
you stand your ground, you will have to fight with a
temporary reduction of 2 to your SKILL because you
are fighting in the dark; turn to 97 if you want to do
this.

364

Rahasta is a grim place, where the forces of muta-
tion and Chaos are very apparent. The homes of the
locals are hovels, and as for the inhabitants. . . they
seem to be half-human mongrels mostly, some hav-
ing the features of Orcs or Hobgoblins, and some
enduring more dramatic mutations which they sul-
lenly try to keep hidden. You catch glimpses of a
chitinous claw concealed beneath a Jong sleeve, a
woman whose head seems to be writhing under her
turban as if her scalp bore small tentacles, a dog-
faced baby, and worse! Still, you are very tired and
need, if possible, to get supplies here. Will you:

Buy some food? Turn to 54
Try to find somewhere to sleep? Turn to 166
Go to a tavern? Turn to 272
Try to buy a mount for the

journey ahead? Turn to 186

365-367

365
The militia force you to surrender. For them, it is a
tidy solution to pin masterminding the kidnap, and
then murdering your accomplices, on to you. You
have only garrotting to look forward to; your adven-
ture ends here.

-

epee

7
~~

366
Jesper the mongoose trots up behind you, bright-
eyed and frisky. “Time to go! Wheeee!’ he says,
dancing a little pirouette in his excitement. You are
unsure how useful he is going to be. . . turn to 73.

367
Travelling south, the weather grows warmer but
light cloud shields you from direct sunlight. Your
travels are undisturbed, as will be your sleep
tonight, but during the day you must eat 2 meals
Turn to 19.

368-370

368
In the darkness you make out the form of a sleeping
crewman in the boat! He’s probably dead drunk but
you take no chances, hitting him hard to keep him
unconscious. You quietly lower the boat into the
water and start rowing away from the ship; turn to

369

You must try to drag the mule down and stop it
lashing out at you with its hoofs, which isn’t easy.
Treat this action as a combat — one which you have
to fight with a penalty of 2 points temporarily de-
ducted from your SKILL. You are trying to subdue
the mule; it is trying to kick your brains in. The mule
has asKILL of 7. Each time the mule wins an Attack
Round, it delivers a kick at you causing 2 points of
damage to your STAMINA, but when you have the
higher Attack Strength for two consecutrve Attack
Rounds, you subdue the mule. If at any time you
decide to give up trying to restrain the mule, turn to
141. If you manage to subdue it, turn to 288.

370
You apply the herbs to the wound in a poultice, and
this seems to stop the swelling and ease the pain.
You still lose a further 2 STAMINA points, though.
If you are still alive, you can get some rest: turn to

183.
371-373

374
Fight the locals as a group; if you reduce their

collective STAMINA to zero, you will have slain a
couple of them, and this show of strength will force
the others to back away from you, enabling you to
leave.

TAVERN THUGS SKILL 7 STAMINA 9

If you win, you must leave town immediately; turn
to 114.

372
Do you have a Bronze Bracelet? If you have, turn to

52. If you haven't, turn back to 32 to finish your
fight.

373
Jesper looks displeased. ‘What's the point of having

me around if you won’t take my advice? I know
what I’m doing.’ Unfortunately, the merchant has
now sold the eggs to a grimily clad kitchen-maid
who, in her gin-sodden stupor, has dropped and
smashed them. Distracted for a moment, you allow
the mongoose to slip his leash, and he scampers
away. You chase after him, but he eludes you and is
soon lost to sight. You curse your ill-luck! Now, will
you:

Hang around in the Market

Quarter? Turn to 34
Go to the shops for supplies? Tum to 384
Go somewhere else in town? Turn to 229

374-378

374
You see on the stairs some caltrops — viciously

spiked metal discs which could have injured or even
tamed you! You leap over them and attack the man,
who has drawn a sword to fight you. Turn to 234.

375
After the Orc with his bloodied whip has gone, you

hear the sound of muttering coming from the deck
above you. If you have the Acute Hearing Skill, turn
to 334. Otherwise, you can’t make out what's being
said: turn to 172.

376

You pour a little oil over some scrubby brushwood
to start a fire, and soon the fragrant smell of roasting
venison fills the air. You may gobble down all your
stomach can take — which is plenty. Restore your
STAMINA to its Initial level! Do you have any Pre-
servative Spices? If you have, turn to 347. If you
haven't, turn to 136.

377
You get away from the Old Quarter and find a place

where you can sleep rough. Your rest is disturbed
by nightmares and you wake up, sweating, more
than once. Deduct 2 points from your STAMINA.
Turn to 287.

378
If you have the Tracking Skill, turn to 277. If you
don’t, turn to 24.

379-381

379
Do you have the Animal Wisdom Skill? If you do,
turn to 121. If you do not, pay your 18 Gold Pieces
for the camel, and Bokhannon will keep the animal
stabled for you until you need it. Now you can do
more shopping by turning to 384 or go elsewhere in
town by turning to 229.

380
If you have a rope and you want to test out your
inexpert climbing skill using it, turn to 139. If you
decide not to try, or if you do not have a rope, you
cannot do this; you can either go into the building
(turn to 106) or go elsewhere in the ruins (turn to 4).

381
Koyala’s Bar is packed with a raffish, noisy group of
people of all races, shapes and sizes. In one corner a
Lizard Man is belching his appreciation of the house

382

white! In a bar, you will be out of place if you do not
drink, and ale is not on the menu. Drinks will have
to be paid for, of course! Will you:

Order and drink red wine? Turn to 113
Order and drink white wine? Turn to 212
Hang around doing nothing? Turn to 87
Leave and try the Guursh Bar? Turn to 64
Leave and try the Gambling

Hall? Turn to 311

382

You approach the door the Zoalinth was guarding,
and listen carefully, To your ears, the sounds
beyond are strange indeed: you can hear a wailing,
cacophonous music, the sound of gurgling water
perhaps, and carefree laughter resounding from
within. This is hardly what you expected, so you
throw open the door,

This is the Great Hall of the Master of Chaos, the
Cheater of Deaths; you know this as soon as you lay
eyes on the man — even though he is hardly what
you expected either. At the far end of a long table,
laden with food and fruit, wine and sweetmeats,
sits a slim young man swathed in silver-and-black
robes, holding a wooden staff, the design of which
you cannot make out at this distance. In this palatial
chamber hang fine tapestries and paintings, and in
a side-room a fountain of crystal-clear water gushes
into a pool. The young man clicks his fingers care-
lessty, and two bizarre tiger-woman servants beside
him turn and walk away down cool marbled steps,

383-384

through bead-fringed curtains, to chambers be-
yond. Shanzikuul gives you a brilliant, flashing
smile, white teeth gleaming in the pearly light cast
by ornate and embellished wallamps. ‘You are
late,” he admonishes you, ‘but never mind, | have
plenty of time,’ and he smiles mischievously.
‘Come and sit down to dinner. I have a proposal for
you,’ and he gestures to a seat on his left-hand side.

This is all quite astonishing! Will you race to attack
Shanzikuul (turn to 163) or walk across and sit by
him (turn to 209)?

383
Do you have a mark on your forehead? If you have,
you will be torced to fight — the man will not parley
with you: turn to 324. If you do not have a mark,
turn to 44.

384
Whenever you go shopping, you must keep care-
ful track of how much money you spend and
adjust your Treasure accordingly; any purchases
you make should be added to your Possessions.
There are several shops you may care to visit. Do
you wish to try:

Food shops?

Bokhannon’s Stables and Travel
Shop? Turn to 150

Ali Haji-Sheikh’s Weapons Store? Turn to 91

Hotsalt the Herbalist? Turn to 195

Sukifiri’s Magic Shop? Turn to 275

Turn to 33

385-387

385
You run for all you’re worth, to the jeers of the
onlookers. Of course the Captain — with his wooden
leg — can’t chase you, but his crew are hunting you
down. You soon get lost in the unfamiliar docks,
where two of them corner you against a pile of
crates in a blind alley. Do you have the Climbing
Skill? If you do, turn to 119. If you don’t, turn to 225.

386
Several times during the night you awaken with a
start, to hear something scutiling away — perhaps
your keen sense of hearing has saved your life. But
loss of sleep makes you heavy-limbed and fatigued
when morning comes; deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA.

You will not be able to disguise the evil the mark on
your forehead denotes, and you may not enter the
nomad camp — if you do, you will be killed! Still, you
can sneak into the ruins of Kabesh and explore other
areas. Turn to 4.

387

You race after the boy, but he escapes. Fortunately,
in his hurry he dropped something — a small bag of
gems! The merchant and his men soon arrive, and
you hand over the bag. Gratefully the merchant
offers you 4 Gold Pieces as a reward (add this to
your Treasure); he also offers you a job shifting
cargo at his warehouse. The pay is fair, he says. Will
you accept his offer (turn to 86) or decline and go
elsewhere in town (turn to 229)?

388-389

388
In the journey ahead, remember that when you are
instructed that you must eat Provisions, you must
deduct the stated number of Provisions from the
Adventure Sheet, or lose 2 STAMINA points for every
meal you fail to eat.

If you have a riverboat ticket, turn to 331. If you
have bought a camel, turn to 367. Otherwise, you
are leaving on foot: turn to 320.

389

The huge Half-Ogre totters and falls, and the crowd
stands and cheers your triumph! Stewards in chain-
mail usher you away after you have taken your
bows before the foot-stamping, shouting masses.
You get your reward of 12 Gold Pieces, but now you
will be the talk of the town — aad 2 points to your
NOTORIETY.

You are allowed to rest and recuperate in a room
near the stadium, looked after by a friendly inn-
keeper who gives you a meal (regain 4 STAMINA
points). His son had been foolish enough to chal-
lenge the Gladiator, so the manis delighted that you
have beaten the Half-Ogre. Now you must try an-
other part of town: turn to 229.

390-392

390
It is an especially hot day today. Roll one die and
halve the number rolled (rounding fractions up);
this is the number of your Provisions which spoil in
the heat. You must throw them away (reduce your
Provisions by this amount).

However, you notice a group of small deer in the
distance; and you halt and stay still, quietly dis-
mounting if you are not already on foot. Fresh meat
would be a real pleasure, and you need extra food!
If you have a crossbow, turn to 65. If you haven't,
but you do have the Animal Wisdom Skill, turn to
219. If you have neither of these, but you possess
the Move Silently Skill, turn to 261. Ifyou have none
of these, turn to 78.

391
You manage to react just in time and jump out of the
way as a Sharp-spined tentacle flails at you from
behind a pile of crates; but now you must fight this
unexpected enemy! Turn to 264.

392
The dart just nicks you and causes you 1 point of
damage, deducted from your STAMINA. You reach

393-395

the top of the stairs, to find that your enemy has
drawn a sword; turn to 234.

393
Eventually the parrot gets bored with berating you

and flies away. Turn to 77.

394
Settling down in your place again after all the excite-

ment, you continue your observations, keeping one
eye open for any chance to make some money! After
a while, as it grows late, you notice that three places
in particular seem to be attracting many comings
and goings, so you decide to pay a visit to one of
them. Koyala’s Bar is notable for the bottles of wine
in the window, the bunches of grapes over the door,
and the airs and graces affected by the customers
who drift in and out - clearly it isn’t a place where
beer is served! Will you visit:

Koyala’s Bar? Turn to 381
Kanstrin’s Guursh Bar? Turn to 64
Stavian’s Gambling Hall? Turn to 311

395
‘Spawn of Undeath’’ one of the nomads curses, and

they draw their weapons! You flee back north, into
the encroaching night. Their pursuit is fruitless, but
now you are utterly exhausted, and are forced to
seek a place to sleep out in the open. If you have the
Acute Hearing Skill, turn to 386. If you do not have
this Skill, turn to 152.
396-397

396

Having destroyed the skeleton guards, you begin a
search of the Mausoleum. This takes time: it is a
large place and you favour caution! However, even-
tually you find 5 Gold Pieces in one of the tombs
(add this to your Treasure) and a book sealed inside
another. On the spine you read the title: The Three
Hundred and Thirty Incantations of Ssassuzlit. This
book radiates both magic and a faint aura of evil. If
you want to give this book to someone, you know
which paragraph to turn to! Otherwise, you may
take this book with you if you wish (if you do,
record it and its title in your Possessions). In any
event, it is time to go elsewhere; turn to 4.

397
You try your luck gambling with the men: a mixture

of impassive card-sharks, half-drunk sailors throw-
ing their money around, and amateurs whose bluffs
and triumphs can be read in their eyes while they
hold their cards close to their chests. Roll one die: if

398-399

you roll 1, you win 3 Gold Pieces; if you roll 2, you
win 2 Gold Pieces; if 3, 1 Gold Piece; if 4, you neither
win nor lose; if 5, you lose 1 Gold Piece; if 6, you lose
2 Gold Pieces. If you want to try gambling with
either of the other groups, you will need to have at
least 2 Gold Pieces left! Will you:

Gamble with the Dwarfs? Turn to 265
Gamble with the Gnomes? Turn to 61
Leave and find somewhere to

sleep? Turn to 27

398

You wander around in the nomad camp, but all you
see is the devout at prayer, people putting up tents
and tending to their goats and oxen. The one useful
thing you can do here is buy food; 1 Gold Piece will
buy you enough for 2 meals (2 Provisions per Gold
Piece spent), but you cannot buy more than 10
Provisions in total, since the nomads have no more
spare food than this. Keep careful track of how
many Provisions you buy here: you sey return to
buy extra Provisions, but the figure of 10 total pur-
chases must not be exceeded. Now turn to 4 to find
somewhere to visit in the ruins,

399
In the morning, you stretch your limbs in the sun,

then eat the breakfast which the shy, brown-eyed
girls of the camp bring you. For rest and food,
regain 4 STAMINA points. Now turn to q to decide
where next to go.

400

400
Naas lies dead at your feet. You tuck the Staff of
Power under your arm, and then you notice a faint
gleam in Shanzikuul’s amulet. You guess that this is
some sort of teleportation-magic item, and you pray
desperately that it will be powerful enough to trans-
Hage nain port you home, as you hear the screams and howls
‘at Pe TNT Sot is of cleaver-wielding Mutants approaching down the
Be folie a passage beyond the door. You know nothing about
eee) Athy iS WDE SS | the way magic works, so you pray to the Gods of
Net? SUN Law and Good to help you, and you hold the amulet
tight round your neck, trying to conjure up an
image of Amberon and the place you met while still
concentrating fervently on the amulet, as your fin-
gers turn white and you hold on toit for dear life. . .

. .and the magic works! You are standing among a
gathering of cowled wizards, one of whom is read-
ing from an ancient scroll of vellum, browned with
age; and they stand, gazing in astonishment upon
the relic you have brought back to them. Their
bewilderment turns to relief, and smiles spread
over the faces of men whose expressions are usually
so serious, they look as if they have never smiled in
their entire lives.

‘T’m sorry this isn’t a more light-hearted occasion,’
Amberon confides to you at the feast held later in
your honour, ‘but some of the wizards are still
shaken, despite their relief, by what has happened,
And, just between you and me, some of them aren’t
exactly proficient at rejoicing and making merry.’
Looking around at the old wizards, you can believe

400

it, ‘But at least there are the rewards to look forward
to. The older wizards have been scouring the Guild
of Wizardry for objects which might make a fitting
reward. There are a good magical weapon or two
they found lying about, and a magic platter which
provides food whenever you need it —" how good
that sounds! "- and a suit of the finest magical
chainmail the Elven warrior-wizards have made in
years — and one or two other items too. That is, if
you'te interested, of course. . .‘ Amberon smiles as
he sees that you ate very interested indeed, and
then he goes on to enumerate the gold, and the
gems, and the intelligent warhorse . , .

You smile and stretch out in comfort. It’s going to be
a long night, and you’ve deserved it a hundred
times over!

Also in Puffins

Steve Jackson’s
SORCERY!

1: THE SHAMUTANTI HILLS

Your search for the legendary Crown of Kings takes you
to the Shamutanti Hills, Alive with evil creatures, lawless
wanderers and bloodthirsty monsters, the land is riddled
with tricks and traps waiting for the unwary traveller
Will you be able to cross the hills safely and proceed to
the second pact of the adventure — or will you perish in
the atternpt

2: KHARE - CITYPORT OF TRAPS

As 4 warrior relying on force of arms, or a wizard trained
in magic, you must brave the terror of a city built to trap
the unwary, You will need all your wits about you to sur-
vive the unimaginable horrors ahead and to make sense
of the clues which may lead to your success — or to your
doom!

3: THE SEVEN SERPENTS

Seven deadly and magical serpents speed ahead of you to
warn the evil Archmage of your coming. Will you be able
to catch them before they get there?

4: THE CROWN OF KINGS

At the end of your long trek, you face the unknown
terrors of the Mampang Fortress. Hidden inside the hinepy
is the Crown of Kings — the ultimate goal of the Sorcery!
epic. But beware! For if you have not defeated the Seven
Serpents. your arrival has been anticipated . . .

Complete with all the magical spells you will need,
each book can be played either on its own or as part
of the whole epic.

OUT OF THE PIT:
FIGHTING FANTASY MONSTERS
Steve fackson and lan Livingstone
Edited by Marc Gascoigne

From the darkest corners, from the deepest pools and
from dungeons thought only to exist in nightmares come
the Fighting Fantasy monsters — the downfall of many a
brave warrior. Two hundred and fifty of these loathsome
creatures from the wild and dangerous worlds of Fighting
Fantasy are collected here — some are old adversaries,
many you have yet to meet — each of them described
in minute detail. An indispensable guide for Fighting
Fantasy adventurers!

TITAN:
THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD
Steve Jackson and lan Livingstone
Edited by Marc Gascoigne

You met the monsters in OUT OF THE PIT-—now meet
the rest of the Fighting Fantasy world! No adventurer
should be without this essential guide — it contains every-
thing you need to know, covering the turbulent history of
the world, from its creation and early civilizations —~
through the devastating War of the Wizards — to the
present-day wilderness and anarchy where the delicate
balance between Good and Chaos could at any moment
be overturned .

