“The ancient Prophecy must be fulfilled!

Inthe tiyterious (es ofthe Davy anckent forces
uererurming rom the pas, ring chaos and wae

Their snietion ower fin the
‘King and regain rule Hs up to YOU
‘rug peace t ee land once: more

Bint who are your Whiken, it seems fom the
dad yout have oly imnliablo ragments of me
oy tran on. Yin rust discover your own ilentity
elvis the flick Vein (Propheey eats finally he
fulied

Page saory pt game, this i-2 book in which
YOU poeame the bes! Two dice, a pencil andl an
fraser ave all you need, YOU decide which mutes 0
tuk whic dangers o risk and which foes fight

mond ala bo py an

0 FF '

ih
PUFFIN BOOKS

BLACK VEIN PROPHECY

The Black Vein Prophecy was decreed many, many years aga,
in the time of the fiendish ruler, Bezenvial, but its arcane power
reaches across ime to curse the land. Now the Child-King’s
hold over the Isles of the Dawn is crumbling to nothing, as
ancient evil emerges once more to reclaim its birthright.

Awakening inside a dusty sarcophagus, you are plunged into a
bewildering world cursed with the faint of chaos and war. But
for you there is a more pressing need — to discover just who you
are.

The fragments of distant memories provide some clues, and
those you meet on the road may offer others. Ultimately,
though, it will be for YOU to discover just who you are, and
how you can fulfil the ancient prophecy.

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser ate all you need to embark on
this astonishing adventure, which is complete with its elaborate
combat system and a score sheet to record your progress.

Many dangers lie ahead and your success is by no means
certain, Powerful adversaries are ranged against you and il’s up
to YOU to decide which route to follow, which dangers to risk
and which foes to fight

Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks Steve Jackson and Jan Livingstone

1 THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP 25 BENEATH NIGHTMARE CASTLE present:
MOUNTAIN 26 CRYPT OF THE SORCERER
2 THE CITADEL OF CHAOS 27 STAR STRIDER
3 THE FOREST OF DOOM 26 PHANTOMS OF FEAR
4. STARSHIP TRAVELLER 29. MIDNIGHT ROGUE rk 4 LACK
5. CITY OF THIEVES 30 CHASMS OF MALICE
6 DEATHTRAP DUNGEON 31 BATTLEBLADE WARRIOR
7 ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING 32 SLAVES OF THE ABYSS
8 SCORPION SWAMP 33 SKY LORD El i ROP Hi ECY
9, CAVERNS OF THE SNOW WITCH 34 STEALER OF SOULS
10 HOUSE OF HELL 35. DAGGERS OF DARKNESS
11 TALISMAN OF DEATH 36 ARMIES OF DEATH
12 SPACE ASSASSIN . 37 PORTAL OF EVIL
13. FREEWAY FIGHTER 38 VAULT OF THE VAMPIRE
14 TEMPLE OF TERROR 39. FANGS OF FURY
15. THE RINGS OF KETHER 40 DEAD OF NIGHT
16 SEAS OF BLOOD 41 MASTER OF CHAOS
17 APPOINTMENT WITH FEAR 42. BLACK VEIN PROPHECY
18 REBEL PLANET 43. THE KEEP OF THE LICH-LORD
19 DEMONS OF THE DEEP 44 LEGEND OF THE SHADOW
20 SWORD OF THE SAMURAI WARRIORS
21 TRIAL OF CHAMPIONS 45. SPECTRAL STALKERS
22. ROBOT COMMANDO 46 TOWER OF DESTRUCTION
23 MASKS OF MAYHEM 47 THE CRIMSON TIDE

24 CREATURE OF HAVOC

Steve Jackson’s SORCERY!

1 THE SHAMUTANTI HILLS 3. THE SEVEN SERPENTS
2 KHARE — CITYPORT OF TRAPS 4 THE CROWN OF KINGS
FIGHTING FANTASY — The Introductory Role-Playing Game Paul Mason and Steven Williams

THE RIDDLING REAVER ~— Scenarios for the Fighting Fantasy Role-Playing
Game — Four Thrilling Adventures
OUT OF THE PIT — Fighting Fantasy Monsters TI t

ated by Terry Oak
TITAN — The Fighting Fantasy World lus rate by € ry O eS
THE TROLLTOOTH WARS — A Fighting Fantasy Novel
DEMONSTEALER — A Fighting Fantasy Novel

DUNGEONEER -— Advanced Fighting Fantasy ~PUFFIN BOOKS
BLACKSAND! — Advanced Fighting Fantasy
To the staff of the Beijing House, Wandsworth, to
Tim of Shropshire, to Susana, to Poppy, and to the
gods of Perseve...

PUFFIN BOOKS

Pubhshed by the Penguin Group
Penguin Books Ltd, 27 Wrights Lane, London wé 512, England
Penguin Books USA Inc.. 375 Hudson Siret. New York, New York 10014, USA
Penguin Books Australia Lid, Ringwood. Victoria, Australia
Penguin Books Canada Ltd to Akcom Avenue, Toronte. Ontano, Canada M4¥ 3m2
Penguin Books (NZ) Ltd, 182-190 Wairau Road, Auckland 10, New Zealand

Penguin Books Ltd, Registered Offices) Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England

First pubhshed 1990
57910864

Concepl copyright } Steve jackson and lan Livingstone, iggo
Text copyright ©) Paul Mason and Steven Wilhams, 1990
Illustrations copynght @ Terry Oakes, 1990
All nghts reserved

Printed in England by Clays Lid, 5! Tves ple
Filmsei in Linotron Palatino

Except in the United States of America, this book is sold subject
to the condition [hal it shall not, by way of trade or olherwise, be lent,
re-sold, hired out, or otherwise circulated without the publisher's
prior consent in any forn of binding or cover other than thal in
which it is published and wrlhout a sutular condifion induding this
condition being imposed on the subsequent purchaser

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION
7
ADVENTURE SHEET
5-9
BLACK VEIN PROPHECY

11

THE RULES
230

Adventure Sheet

ENCOUNTER BOXES

SKILL STAMINA | | LUCK
Initial Initial Initial
Skill = Stamina = Luck =
TREASURE]! | PROVISIONS
REMAINING
EQUIPMENT NOTES
LIST

Skill Skill Skill
Staming= Stamina= Stamina=
Skill Skill Skill
Stamina= Stamina= Stamina=
Skill Skill Skill
Stamina= Stamina= Stamina=
Skill Skill Skill
Stamina= Stamina= Stamina=

INTRODUCTION

This is an adventure shrouded in darkness. When
you start to play you will be unprepared for what
lies ahead. You will discover your strengths and
weaknesses by trial and error as the story unfolds.
On pages 8-9 you will find an Adventure Sheet,
which you should use to record the details of your
adventure. Do not roll the dice to determine your
SKILL, STAMINA and Luck yet. These will be deter-
mined once the adventure is under way.

It is particularly important to try not to cheat in this
adventure. There is a correct path through it, but
you are unlikely to find it unless you play fair!

If you haven’t played a Fighting Fantasy adventure
before, or if you need a reminder concerning the
tules, turn to the back of the book, where you'll find
them explained. [If you are a seasoned adventurer
and are already familiar with the Fighting Fantasy
system, then you can leap straight into action by
turning to paragraph 1 and starting your adventure.

I
Blackness . . , The sound of marching feet. . . The
musty odour of decay. Somewhere in the void
which envelops you, a voice cries out. The pound-
ing feet fade away and sparks swim before your
eyes. Nausea grips you. You double up; your head
thumps against stone. The numbness retreats from
your limbs and, as your senses return, you feel the
cold stone slabs which entomb you. You panic,
flailing desperately. Your hands strike the slab
above you and a flash sears your vision, As your
sight returns, you see the lid of your sarcophagus
hurtle upwards. It smashes against a high ceiling
and disintegrates, raining stone shards and dust
down upon you. Silence descends,

You drag yourself out and collapse weakly. You are
in a round, high-domed chamber, festooned with
Tich tapestries and glittering ornaments, each care-
fully stacked and ordered. A faint golden radiance
suffuses the treasure, dimly illuminating the cham-
ber. The sumptuous marble floor is shot through
with black veins, but its perfect surface is flawed by
a series of fine cracks. Along one of these a thin
rivulet of crimson seeps across the dust towards
you. You look up. A broken body lies among the
rubble, a trickle of blood oozing from its head. You
back away, scrabbling across the marble to the base
of your tomb. Beyond it is another identical sar-
cophagus, but you are too bewildered to pay any
attention to it, Tracing your hand over the carved
surface of your own tomb, you struggle to make

2

sense of the weird designs covering it. But their
significance eludes you, leaving you with only the
vaguest feeling of recognition. The whole chamber
seems filled with echoes of your past, but their
meaning is lost to you. All you are left with is a terror
which grips your innards and gnaws at your mind.

Something makes a noise. You turn towards the
sound, grasping the lip of the sarcophagus for sup-
port. Just as you are struggling to focus, the crushed
body twitches. Then a silvery snout pokes out from
behind it and a pair of startled eyes meet yours.
Shaken into action, you pull yourself to your feet.
Will you:

Attack the silvery creature? Turn to 65
Approach cautiously? Turn to 142
Retreat to the other sarcophagus? = Turn to 360

You come to the edge of a cliff and peer down into a
green gorge, its far depths delicately veiled by rising
vapour. Some way along the cliff you can see people
lowering themselves down the cliff face on ropes. If
you want to investigate them, turn to 47. If you
ignore them and continue on your way, turn to 29.

3
The king's forces line the foothills about you, wait-
ing nervously for battle. The officer escorts you
through their ranks towards a lavish tent, covered
in royal emblems and banners. The troops who
surround it seem disorganized and chaotic; infan-
trymen wander about aimlessly, while sergeants
bellow orders at them - to little effect. The scene is
one of confusion and apprehension; no one seems
to be in charge. You are ushered into the tent and,
presented to the young king, Poo Ta, whom you
find lounging in a sea of cushions. He is waited on
by at least twenty servants and is being fed grapes
and succulent sweetmeats. The boy points at you
with a jewel-laden finger. ‘Who is this wretch, and
what does he want?’ The king gestures the slaves to
leave, and half listens to your news while sucking
his teeth. ‘Heavens!’, he cries. ‘From the way you
talk, you would think that we were all doomed! I
have the troops, I have the generals, and history is
on my side. I shall take great pleasure in leading

a glorious victory against Bezenvial’s impudent
child!’

‘But, your majesty,’ interjects a worried-looking
officer, ‘we have no plan of attack. I have reports
that Feior’s army far outnumbers our own, we. . .’

‘Silence!’ snaps the king. ‘Iam invincible. My family
line is unbroken. War is in my blood - I have no
need of petty plans!’

The commanders bow their heads respectfully, but
you can sense their apprehension. If you volunteer

4-5

your services as a commander, turn to 61. If you set
out alone, leaving the king to blunder into battle
unaided, turn to 137.

Try as you may, you cannot get a word in edgeways.
Merzei is obviously a master of the art of talking
down opponents. He rants on incomprehensibly
for several minutes, talking about social injustice
and how you and all lickspittle lackeys of the
ruling autarchy will be swept away by a tide of
righteousness.

‘Down with the Tyrant! Up with the Council!’ he
yells, before turning on his heel and stalking off
among the trees. There seems little point in follow-
ing him, so you make your own way out of the
woods. Turn to 239

5
Desperately you try to clear your mind, and you

begin to speak the word. But before you can finish
it, the creature’s poison makes contact with your
hands. Your arms lock rigid. Very soon your entire
body is paralysed. The creature reels in its helpless
prey, and prepares to dine . . .

6-7

The creature stares at you expectantly, then the grin
broadens. It reaches forward slowly and takes the
brooch from your outstretched hand.

‘Thank-k-k-ks,’ it says, then it disappears with
another loud pop. The brooch is lost with it. Turn
back to the paragraph you were at when you
decided to open the brooch.

7
The shimmering Lock spell catches Feior doubled
up in agony. It spreads out around his body, freez-
ing him in position. It seems that you have pre-
vailed. If you abandon him where he is, turn to 219.
If you climb to his perch and free him from the Lock
spell, turn to 159.

ie

Ss

Ne

AA if Laas vp
Ce
SY RY "s

8—10

8

‘Fool!’ Velkos calls back to you as she hurries off.
You follow the screeching to a large wooden door
which blocks the tunnel. The dooris not barred, but
a dislodged chip of stone wedges it shut. As frantic
hands thump on the other side, you kick the stone
away. The door flies open and dozens of young
Cressents pour out, sweeping you along with them.
One of them gestures at you, but you can’t make out
what he is trying to communicate. Behind them
seep tendrils of smoke. Soon light appears ahead of
you, and the Cressents quicken their pace. You
emerge on the mountainside to see traders and
Cressents alike fleeing from an incandescent crea-
ture, its shapeless body surrounded by whip-lashes
of flame. Bolts fly from it, incinerating all they
touch. You notice Velkos among the fleeing traders.
If you run from this creature of wizardry, turn to
354. If you stand and face it, turn to 280.

9
The slash takes you by surprise and slices cleanly
through. Fatally wounded, you slump forward into
blackness. Your adventure ends here.

10
Though scarred and pocked, the sea walls of the city
still stand. Flights of stone steps lead up to their
ramparts, and you begin to ascend. After a short
while you reach a ledge, from which another flight
leads upwards. This time the climb takes a little
longer, and by the time you reach the nextledge you

i1-12

are panting with the effort. Looking up, you see the
top of the wall still rearing far above you. You are
halfway up the next flight of stairs when you notice
that you are only a dozen steps up from the ground.
Below you there is no sign of the ledges on which
you rested. Hurrying back down the steps, you look
up at the wali from a distance. A single flight of
stairs leads up to the top — there is not a ledge to be
seen. Puzzled, you abandon your attempt to scale
the walls. If you turn your attention to the catapults
on the platforms near by, turn to 175. If you return
to the city’s ruins, turn to 97.

11
The first wave of your attack holds well. You dis-
mount and follow your men into battle. Soon you
are in the midst of the fray, fighting for your life.
Two of Feior’s foot soldiers break free and charge
you. You must react instantly and defend yourself.

SKILL STAMINA
First SOLDIER 6 5
Second SOLDIER 5 6

Fight them one at a time. If you win, turn to 169.

12
Sevmiroda, the outlaw leader, whispers at you
threateningly: ‘What are you playing at? You're
supposed to be one of us.’ If you try to persuade
Sevmiroda that you're not cut out for the bandit life,
turn to 356. If you run from the bandits, turn to 182.
If you want to try to defeat them, turn to 258.

13-16

13
Before you can reach the sitting prophet, the
Kreehuls are upon you. They seem reluctant to
attack, but their sheer weight of numbers crushes
down on you. Trampled beneath their webbed feet,
you die swiftly.

14
Velkos refuses to follow you and sets off up the
scrub-covered slopes. You head along the track into
the pine-scented darkness of the wood. Test your
Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 363. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 110.

15
You start to run, but the cloud shoots towards you,
enveloping you in utter blackness. You waver, un-
able to find a safe footing. Suddenly you are struck
violently from behind. You topple and plunge into
the chasm below. The ground hurtles up towards
you, and you lose consciousness. Turn to 165.

16
The tunnel leads down for some way, twisting and
turning. You cannot tell in which direction you are
facing, but soon a glimpse of light ahead leads you
to guess that you are approaching the cliff face. You
enter a chamber, which is full of flickering candles.
At the far end of the cavern, another short tunnel
leads out to the sky, in which birds wheel and dive.

In the chamber stands an old man; he regards you
with an intense gaze. ‘Your name is Maior,’ he says,
17

‘Lam Credas.’ He gestures to you to find a place to
siton the floor. ‘Ican teach you to use the power you
hold, if you are willing. But first we must think of
something to do about those unwelcome intruders.’

He leads you back down the tunnels to where the
outlaws stand mesmerized. ‘If we combine power
we can send them out of here none the wiser,’
Credas tells you.

If you decide to trust him and join in his enchant-
ment, turn to 326. If you refuse, turn to 221.

17
You untie the man from the wheel and support him.

‘Aha!’ a coarse voice says.

You turn to find yourself facing three men in black
lacquered armour made up of many scales, their
swords as broad as hands. You !ook each of them in
the eye and each, in turn, flinches from your gaze.
‘Begone!’ you shout. The warriors disappear among
the buildings.

You help the man from the village into the relative
safety of a nearby copse. But his injuries are too
great, and he dies in your arms. It seems you must
head north if you are to keep away from the raven-
ing army of Feior. If you return to Credas’s cave,
turn to 329. If you search for somewhere safe to stay,
turn to 29.

18-19

18

You crouch just inside the opening, taking comfort
from the dim radiance which seeps through it. But
the pressure inside is mounting again. Ahead of
you, another flare bursts on the chamber floor. You
think you can discern another opening on the far
side of the chamber, so you prepare to make a dash
across the riddied floor. Turn to 390.

You head off alone into unfamiliar countryside,
soon finding a wide dirt road. Continuing along it
for some time, you observe the state of the sur-
rounding fields; vast tracts of millet lie rotting and
unharvested. After an hour, when you have given
up hope of seeing anyone, shouts rise up from
across a muddy field to your left. Cautiously you
advance across the deep mud and spy two peasants,
who seem to be crouched on their hands and knees.

If you answer their cries for help, turn to 158. If you
choose to ignore them and continue along the road,
turn to 361.

20-23

20
At the head of the army stalks a figure that fills you
with queasy recognition. Dressed in the most rid-
iculous finery is a tall, imposing figure, whom you
recognize as your brother, Feior. He approaches
with a jaunty stride and fixes you with a quizzical
grin. ‘Well met, fleshkin,’ he says. ‘Would you care
to join my little band of brothers? I need a lieutenant
[can rely on.’

If you agree to Feior’s offer, turn to 174. If you
refuse, turn to 339.

21
You take the fellow by surprise, landing a stinging
blow that sends him crashing. He is up quickly,
however, and flails about him with a spiked club.

BLINDED BANDIT SKILL 4 STAMINA 6
If you defeat the bandit, turn to 387.

22

‘That is unfortunate, but we may still prevail. You
must unite an army to meet Feior in battle and
destroy his forces. Without soldiers he has no real
power. Go now, and may your fate be kind, for the
sake of the Isles.’ If you have a Bejewelled Box, turn
to 377. Otherwise, turn to 119.

23
The lid of the box flips open of its own accord, and a
shimmering haze of vapour emerges. You leap back
but are too late to avoid a mouthful of the enchanted

24

substance. It burns your throat horribly (lose 2
points from your STAMINA) and you choke badly.
The merchant makes good his escape while you lie
doubled up. Eventually the vapour dispérses and
there, before you in the dirt, lies the bejewelled box,
so you pick it up (note this on your Equipment List).
Turn to 161.

The object is warm to the touch. You roll it away
from the wall and brush off the accumulated dust.
No sooner have you touched it, however, than a
shadow crosses your vision. You look up to see a
mirror image of yourself stepping from the silvery
surface of the wall in front of you. Its face is con-
torted in the same rictus of fear as your own, but it
moves in to attack you.

MIRROR
IMAGE  skILLyourown STAMINA Yyourown

You must fight an exact, but reversed, replica of
yourself. If you win the fight, turn to 272.

25-28

25
The coin lands with Feior’s screaming face upper-
most. The coin swells, then pops, and your
brother's prone form lies at your feet. He is utterly
defeated. Turn to 264.

26

You call the sacred word from your memory and
repeat it aloud. As the last syllable leaves your
tongue, you feel a ball of energy blossom in
your chest. It spreads to your arms and then to
your fingers, finally collecting itself into a ball of
energy, which you fling into the pool. The water
locks solid, trapping the bathers and giving you a
few seconds to dash for the exit. Turn to 202.

27

It feels as if huge bloated worms are gorging them-
selves on your organs. Just as the sensation grows
too much to bear, your power is released in a single
bolt. The Polybleb rears, the air around it warping
and changing. What was already a fearsome magi-
cal creature has now been transformed into an
enormous mound of eye-searing horror. Before
your brain can fully comprehend the extent of the
creature you have created, a gout of plasma erupts
from it and envelops you. Your end is swift.

28
As you charge towards the village and into the heart
of battle, the flying Sturramak notices your fresh
assault. It swoops towards you, releasing a fiery

Le
31

pass through each seal. The corridors tremble spas-
modically the further you progress, and by the time
you approach the seventh seal loose pebbles are
raining down upon you. Breaking into a run, you
make a dash for the sunlight which streams through
the seal ahead of you. Roll one die, note down the
result and turn to 107.

31
You start to generate the same destructive power in
your own body that Feior is producing. Sparks
flicker between your fingers, and you feel the
sorcerous fire building within you. As Feior looses
his bolt of energy, your own bursts forth. The blasts
fly at each other, striking with a thunderous roar.
With a mighty explosion the two spells combine,
and the shock-wave hurls you from your perch on to
the rocks below.

32-33

32

Darkness now surrounds you. By trailing your
fingers against the wall to your left, you make your
way safely along the passage, which meanders for
some time, hopelessly confusing your sense of
direction. A glow appears ahead, and you stumble
into a chamber lit by limpid trails of luminescent
slime. By this ghastly light you can see pile upon
pile of nuts, berries, leaves ... and gemstones.
Sparkling: in the dim light they lie there, beckoning
you with the comforting finger of wealth. As you
stare, a wisp of smoke writhes into the chamber
beside you. You turn. . .and more billows out from
the tunnel. If you make for the opposite tunnel
straight away, turn to 372. If you pick up some gems
first, turn to 262.

33

The Kreehuls have been temporarily thwarted but,
in a forest of such size, it seems likely that more will
arrive soon. The statue of the Sitting Prophet is not
the figurine Credas ted you to believe it was. In vain
you try to shift it, and succeed only in straining your
back. Dejected, you slump down against one of its
chubby legs and stare out into the jungle. Green
eyes stare back at you from the darkness as more
Kreehuls prepare for another assault. Your situation
seems hopeless. If you have the Small Jar, turn to
391. Otherwise, turn to 214.

CUT
29

bolt of energy which smashes into the peasants,
instantly disintegrating those it hits. The beast
nears, and you watch in horror as it releases hun-
dreds of squirming, leech-like creatures from its
underbelly on to the people below. You turn your
gaze towards the village’s river and spy the golden
figure of the Sitting Prophet as he wades into battle,
at his heels a mass of screeching Kreehuls. The
swamp beings spill out on to the banks and attack
Feior’s troops, while their idol waits for the Sturra-
mak to near him. The two magical beings lock in
fierce combat. But the battle has been poorly plan-
ned. Without a strategy, the three factions buckle
under the weight of attacks. You perish, amid
scenes of ternble carnage.

29
You trek through the countryside, past fields
of peasants working away to eke out a lowly exist-
ence. They look at you suspiciously as you pass,
and several make superstitious gestures in your
direction.

30

You arrive at a fair-sized town feeling tired, miser-
able and estranged from those around you. This
town is unlike the one you encountered previously:
its streets are clean and its people, for the most part,
prosperous. You are stopped by guards as you pass
through the gates, and they ask you your business
and your home town. When your reply fails to
satisfy them, they haul you off to a cell. You con-
sider resisting, but there are too many of them,
and they look as if they know how to use their
weaponry.

Several hours later, a young man in fine robes
comes to visit you, flanked by stern-faced soldiers.
It’s Feior!’ he shrieks upon seeing you, ‘I'd recog-
nize that devilspawn anywhere! Slay him before
ne enchants us!’ You have no opportunity to act
vefore the soldiers swing their swords, and your
adventure ends,

30

At the top of the stairs you are confronted by yet
another seal. You scramble through the opening
and find yourself in a low-ceilinged corridor which
snakes off ahead of you. On the floor beside you,
neatly laid out, are a greatsword and a haversack. If
vou wish to take either or both of these, you should
add them to your Equipment List - the haversack
contains fresh food equivalent to 5 Provisions.

You continue along the passage, passing through
another three seals. You notice that the pressure
builds as you advance, then drops again when you

34-36

34
Mortally wounded, your opponent collapses just as

Velkos gets to her feet, grabs a pole and fends off the
second sphere. You shoot a searching glance at her,
then Jook back to the man who emerged from the
floating ball. Velkos explains that, as punishment
for his crimes, the wretch has been cast out upon the
ocean in the inflated bladder of a Shael-beast to live
a short life of seclusion and madness. Exhausted by
your fight, you slump to the deck. If you allow
yourself a restful sleep, turn to 292. If you stay
awake, turn to 247.

You are deep in the forest. A rich smell of decay
wafts from the north, while the road ahead shows
signs of use. Do you follow the smell (turn to 382) or
the road (turn to 361)?

36
The Sturramak feeds off the energy of others. Your
powers simply fuel its own, and you perish.

37-39

You have a refreshing rest (restore 2 points of
STAMINA). You think you can remember in which
direction Velkos fled. If you search for her, turn to
67. If you set off on your own into the lusher
lowlands, turn to 19.

38
Soon you are lost in the heart of the jungle, with no
means of retracing your steps. You are doomed to
roam the hinterland until death finds you and sends
you once more into the blackness from which you
emerged.

39
You pass through the tortured streets. The airis rich

with strange smells, The charred ruins give off
oppressive auras: some fill you with dread, others
draw you to them, while still others stir you to
uneasy laughter. You begin to get the distinct im-
pression that someone or something is moving
among the buildings. The grand arch of the city gate
is carved in the shape of two mighty interlocking
serpents. The wrought-iron portcullis has been

40

blasted through, leaving jagged edges jutting from
it like an old man’s broken teeth. Ail around you the
walls are riddled with fragments of metal, driven
there by the power of the explosion. You approach
the open gate, looking through it to the scorched
fields beyond the city. You step closer, hearing a
faint pattering of hoofs. In an instant you are blown
off your feet as the mouth of the gate erupts in a
sheet of crackling lame. As you back away, you
hear the hoofs pounding closer. The barrier of flame
parts as a rider plunges through and into the square,
before careering off among the buildings. As he
charges away, you gaze at the powerful horse, then
at the naked rider, whose skin is dappled with
blotches of livid colour. It is only as they disappear
that you realize that horse and rider were fused —
their bodies are merged and distorted ina grotesque
parody. Will you:

Follow the rider’s example and leap

through the flame barrier? Turn to 283
Wander back through the city

streets? Turn to 132
Hurry in the direction of the rider? Turn to 379

40
‘So quiet, weakling?’ your father’s voice booms out
across the chasm. You snap out of your trance and
steady yourself on the rocky pinnacle. “To think that
my child would side with the very men who
brought me down. You shame me, son!’ As he
shouts, a fierce blast of wind lifts you off your feet
and carries you upwards. The sky disintegrates into

41

a brilliant white, followed, seconds later, by a rip-
pling crash. Fragments of glass shower down about
you as you plummet to the chasm’s rocky floor.
Your adventure ends here.

41

A sweat rises rapidly on your flesh, and your face
contorts with the effort. Your nose wrinkles, and
your whole body feels as taut as a drumskin. Then
there is release: flame bursts from your nostrils,
feathers flare, and the birds are no more. Behind
you the bandits gasp and mutter wardings, but you
take control of the situation. ‘Forward!’ you call,
striding further into the caverns. You march into a
chamber lit by a thousand candles, to see an old man
gesturing feebly. As he sees you his eyes widen.
“Maior!’ he gasps. Something within you fills you
with certainty that this man is an ancient enemy of
yours. You gesture casually to Sevmiroda; he cuts
the old sorcerer down with a single stylish sweep of
his sword.

You search the cavern complex, but there is no
treasure to be found — only sorcerous knick-knacks, .
books, charms and scrolls. Cursing, you and your
band haul yourselves back up the ropes. Turn to
238.

42-44

42
Men with whips and nets chase behind the crea-

tures. Somehow you know that they are foreigners
to these lands, here to strip it ofits wealth. Up on the
cliff above the cave entrance you see three more,
nets atwirl. The terrified creatures pay you no heed
as they rush headlong into the sanctuary of the
cavemouth. Velkos curses and turns to run. Stones
rain down from above. Will you:

Follow the creatures into the cave? Turn to 285
Evade these foreigners by fleeing

down the mountainside? Turn to 146
Attack them? Turn to 213

43
Before you stands the monastery. No one is about,

so you step through the open gates. Within is a
sparse but neatly tended garden and, in it, several
buildings. You enter the nearest and find a hall
devoid of furniture or decoration of any sort. You
hear a faint sound from above and, after a few
moments, two men enter the hall through a door
opposite. They wear only loincloths, and their
bodies amply demonstrate the physical perfection
these monks are said to aspire to. If you have the
Clay Effigy, turn to 255. Otherwise, turn to 342.

ais you watch the chaos, the locals nearest you
double up, clutching their noses and retching. You
yourself have become quite used to the smell the

45-46

Shael-beast pit has left you with; however, the
villagers take a different view. You are manhandled
out of the shop and across the square, then stripped
of your clothes and booted through the doors of the
local tavern. You hurtle into the steamy chamber
and fall. . . into.a pool of water. Turn to 286.

45
The boat slides up on to a shingle beach and you

leap out with Velkos, who carries a line to make the
boat fast. Then you hurry up the beach to a cave in
the cliff face. Velkos looks around then tums to you,
frowning. ‘Enemies have been here,’ she says. “We
can try to flee from them or we can hunt them out
and get them before they get us. What do you
think?’ Will you:

Flee? Turn to 232

Hunt out the enemies? Turn to 215
Abandon Velkos and strike out on
your own? Turn to 117

46

You begin to prepare your Disruption spell, focus-
ing your power and trying to ignore the heat which
gushes through your body. You are already tired,
though, and concentration comes hard. When you
release your bolt at Feior, he simply cackles and flips
a translucent shape through the air at it. . . and
your bolt evaporates. Another shining sphere flies
from Feior’s hands, and you are frozen where you
stand.

47

Feior has you brought down from the mountain top,
and on the journey he tells you that he will have you
stand in his throne chamber, that you may see how
a true child of Bezenvial should rule.

47
Hiding behind a rotten tree stump you observe the

figures. Two remain looking after the ropes. They
appear to be wood foik or possibly outlaws, as their
clothing is rough and they carry swords and other
weapons. One of them glances in your direction,
and you shrink closer to the tree. Looking inside the
decaying hulk, you see a pool of darkness. A tunnel
leads down! Unable to resist the temptation, you
scramble inside the tree and slither down the nar-
row tunnel. After several yards it widens out, and
you can walk with ease.

A fluttering from up ahead is your only warning.
You are enveloped in a veil of wings. The birds’
flight forms patterns in the air, patterns which tease
your memory. Images flash before your eyes: you
see once more the glyphs on your sarcophagus, and
a feeling of calm descends on you. You have learnt
48~49

the power of Harmonization. Whenever you see the
word “Tiaohe’ as an option, you will be able to use
this power.

You step forward and the birds part before you, as if
they sense your command of their power. Beyond
them lies a chamber, roofless and open to the sky.
The bandits stand here, blank-faced and unmoving.
Another passage leads out of the cavern. If you slay
the bandits while they are enchanted, turn to 138, If
you ignore them and take the other passage, turn to
16.

“You can’t just go orderin’. . .’ The peasant breaks
off his ranting as his eyes meet yours.

His wife prods him. ‘Well, go on then, get on with
it.’ She kicks him off his perch, and they both set
about helping you manhandle the idol on to the
cart. After much heaving and grunting, you succeed
and set off towards Credas’s cliff-top retreat. Turn
to 185.

49
The battered entrance-hall of the ale-house is lit-
tered with piles of filthy, stinking clothes; you

50

notice that the stone floor is slick with water. A
toothless youth sidles up to you and nervously
slobbers, ‘You ain’t from here, are you?’ When you
fail to answer, he asks, ‘Shall I take your clothes and
things ‘fore you get a soakin’? I'll get ’em cleaned
good and proper.’ You are cold and dirty. The
village store is closing up, and only the travellers
remain in the square, camped round their fire. If
you disrobe and enter, turn to 112. If you return to
the square and join the drifters, turn to 197.

50

Another red wax seal bars your progress, but once
again it has been breached. As you squeeze
through, the pressure in your head eases and you
notice that the air has lost its musty tang. Ahead of
you is a small, rough-hewn chamber, dominated by
an imposing flight of stairs which ascend steeply
into darkness. The chamber is illuminated feebly by
two blue-flamed torches, which also give off a deli-
cate scent. The stairs give you hope of escaping this
eerie realm, and you make for them with renewed
vigour.

You are no more than halfway up when a voice
behind you stops you dead. ‘Wait!’ it grates with a
dry, rattling timbre. The voice is familiar and you
are gripped by the same foreboding you felt when
you awoke. lf you ignore the command and con-
Hnue up the stairs, turn to zoo. If you wait, turn to
121.

es a
51-52

51
The black cloud swirls about you. It forms a series of
bizarre patterns, then combines into a crude face
with gaping eyes. Slowly the features sharpen until
you recognize your father. He speaks your name.
‘To think,’ he hisses contemptuously, ‘that one of
my blood should oppose my will. I did not sacrifice
my city and my life to preserve a traitorous misfit.’
The cloud changes, forming the shape of a writhing
snake. ‘When | laid you to rest in the seventh plane I
hoped that I had planted the seeds of a new order
that would return and crush my enemies, not side
with them against me.’ The snake weaves hypnoti-
cally in the air before you, its gaze upon you all the
time.

You are struck violently from behind. You topple
and plunge into the chasm below. The ground
hurtles towards you, and you lose consciousness.
Turn to 165.

52

Framed in the doorway is a short, scrawny fellow.
He eyes the bath’s occupants with deep scorn.
‘Greetings, you worthless hulks of wasted flesh.
How can you wallow in luxury while outside the
people of this land grow weak with hunger? How
LRN. Wc SNe $ can you live with the guilt, knowing the misery your
we eA PNY, slavery has caused to countless families, eh?’

; ‘T manage all right, thank you very much!’ shouts
one bather, sending his friends into howls of
laughter.

53

‘Enough!’ screams the little man. ‘I am Merzei,
Defender of the People, Righter of Wrongs, and
Future Grand Councillor of the Isles.’ He struts
around the edge of the pool brandishing a thick
scroll, which he uses to direct his insults with. ‘T will
ask you once, and once only. Are there any among
you who will join me and fight for justice? Answer
now, before your chance takes flight!’ The laughter
subsides, and Merzei scans the room slowly, wait-
ing for a reply. If you climb out and volunteer to
uphold justice with him, turn to 186. If you prefer to
keep quiet, turn to 302.

53

Delighted with the chaos it has caused, Izkhao dives
into the bath and circles beneath its surface, forming
a swirling vortex. As it picks up speed, the whirl-
pool throws out its victims, sending them crashing
into walls and timbers. The thundering cyclone
finally explodes, showering you with foam and
debris. The brooch slips from your grasp, and
Izkhao pounces on it before you can react. He
hovers momentarily — grinning madly — then shoots
out through a shattered window, clutching his
prize, Turn to 202.

54755

54
‘You are a true agent of the cause,’ Merzei says. ‘I

am almost ready to rouse the people to action, and
this war may prove just the thing to spark them off.’
If you stay to help Merzei raise his peasant army,
turn to 383. If you try to recruit other soldiers and
arrange to rendezvous with him later, turn to 106.

55
The statues are all identical save one — a larger

figure, squatting at the back of the host. As you start
to examine the figures he straightens his legs very
slowly and rises stiffly. He carries a large, serrated
sword and a tough wooden shield, and his frozen
features are stern and daunting. You approach, and
his upper body slowly leans forward in an exag-
gerated mockery of a bow. You wait for him to
straighten, but he is frozen in his gesture. Will you:

Prod him? Turn to 147
Bow to him? Turn to 347
Hurry out of the chamber? Turn to 265

56-57

56

Your face reddens and your breathing comes hard.
Sevmiroda looks at you anxiously, not certain of
what is happening. Red-hot bristles scratch at the
inside of your skin. Then an expanding globe of
flame coalesces around you. It seems to move so
slowly, yet the nearest outlaws have time only to
turn and scream before they are caughtin its searing
path, The rest flee. You notice the merchant staring
at you fearfully, then he spurs his donkey to an
unexpected turn of speed and bounces off towards
the village. Exhausted from your efforts, you follow
the merchant towards the village at a leisurely pace.
Turn to 263.

one

,

-

57
You begin to prepare your Disruption spell, focus-

ing your power and trying to ignore the heat
gushing through your body. You are already tired,
though, and concentration comes hard. Purple ten-
drils stream out from Feior’s hands towards you;
they close the distance slowly but inexorably. In
desperation you force the power from you, The gout
of flame issues from your mouth just as the first

58

questing tendril touches you. Baopo is still a part of
vou, and Feior’s mutation spell fuses you with your
own creation. For a moment you know what agony
itis to be part matter, part energy. Then you know
peace.

58
The man pokes at you and examines you carefully,
before walking off. A few hours later a plate of
rancid slops is brought to you by a miserable-
looking wretch with an iron collar round his throat.
One mouthful, hastily spat out, is enough to
persuade you that it’s not worth trying to eat it.

Night falls. You test all the bars of your cage, finding
them sturdy and unbreakable. The latch is far out of
your reach. How are you to escape? ‘Escape! Escape!
Escape!’ — the word reverberates in your head.
Pressure builds, and your hands start to tremble.
You sob with the pain, but it doesn’t relent. Waves
of blackness sweep across you.

As if from a distance, you hear a sharp crack,
followed by splintering. The pain recedes. The cage
has been smashed apart. Bemused, you stretch your
aching muscles and step out, Your possessions are
nowhere to be seen (cross them all off your Adven-
fure Sheet) but you do pick up a short knife (note this
on your Equipment List). You slip quickly through
the dark streets and out into the countryside. A
mossy dell provides you with a bed for the rest of
the night. Next morning you set off once more. Turn
to 2.

59-60

59
The muddy bank of,a jungle river is not an ideal

resting place, but you manage to find a dry patch to
lie on. A few of the fruits look edible, and you eat
enough to restore some of your strength (add 2
points to your STAMINA). While searching for food,
you discover a small, crudely shaped clay figurine
(note it on your Adventure Sheet). Gathering a few
more handfuls of berries to keep in store, you return
to your boat, only to find an army of tiny red beetles
swarming up its mooring rope. You beat off their
invasion with a stout branch and secure the boat
once more, away from their greedy clutches. If you
set out into the forest, turn to 399. If you return to
your boat and continue downriver, turn to 131.

60
More by luck than by skill, you gain the upper hand.
With a ferocity that surprises you, you drive her to
the stern of the boat and butt her in the midriff.
Without a sound she topples over the side. The
waters close about her with scarcely a ripple. She
does not surface again.

60

Bruised and exhausted, you gaze out at the sea,
wondering how you are going to steer to land
through the mists which are rapidly enveloping
you. After a few hours spent drifting through a
silent, sepulchral shroud, you are glad to see the
mist thin, and a brisk wind fills the sails of your
small craft. You struggle with the sails for a while,
but the wind has other designs. It veers erratically,
throwing you into confusion. The skies darken and
soon you are caught in a violent storm. Forced to
shelter from the gale, you cower under a tarpaulin.
Then, with a sharp crack, the mast crashes down on
top of you and knocks you out.

You regain consciousness, lying in a pool of water,
slumped in the bottom of the boat and with the
sound of waves breaking gently against the hull.
Lifting yourself wearily from the wreck of your boat,
you find that the storm has driven you ashore and
you struggle through the water to the beach. (You
must deduct 2 points from your STAMINA.) After a
brief rest, you set off to find out what this land holds
in store for you. Turn to 19.

Pee

61-63

61
You leave the tent with the officer; outside, he turns
to you and whispers, ‘Do you see what we are up
against? It’s impossible. He’s quite mad. By my
reports we’re outnumbered ten to one. To die in
battle is a glorious thing. But death through the
incompetence of a brat is too much to bear!’

Trumpets sound as scouts spot the dark army
advancing in the north. The king’s troops fall into
ranks, and you are assigned a company to com-
mand. The dejected officers gather to agree a plan of
attack. If you are expecting Merzei, turn to 346.
Otherwise, turn to 250.

62
You advance on him carefully and prepare to strike.
At your approach his eyes widen slightly, and he
seems to look a little afraid.

The next thing you remember is waking up in an
empty clearing, with a raw bruise on your head.
You can remember almost nothing of the fight with
Merzei. You certainly don’t remember him display-
ing any great skill at arms. . . but somehow he has
bested you. You get your bearings from the sun and
make your way out of the still wood. Turn to 239.

63
Eventually you hear shouts from below. Sevmiroda
and the others haul themselves back up the ropes,
cursing and groaning. They explain that the wizard
ensorcelled them for a time, but that they managed
64-65

to break free and slew him, only to find no treasure.
Turn to 238.

64
You get a blow in on Feior, wounding him badly in
the shoulder and interrupting his enchantment. He
draws a gold-bladed knife and faces you once more.

FEIOR SKILLQ STAMINA 14

If you defeat your brother, turn to 219.

Grabbing a sharp fragment of rock, you fling your-
self at the creature. Your feeble swing misses, and
you skid on the slick marble surface. You fall heavily
on to the body — and feel a sharp bite on your
forearm. You pull yourself up, to find a small,
silver-furred creature hanging from you, its teeth
lodged firmly in your flesh, Recoiling, you see that
the creature is tethered to the wrist of its dead
owner. As you step back, it releases its vice-like hold
on your arm and scuttles back to its hiding-place.
The wound on your arm has a silvery sheen and,
though the puncture is deep, little blood flows.

66-68

Make a note of the fact that you have a silvery
wound.

It you leave the chamber now, turn to 217. If you
decide to examine your sarcophagus again, turn to

315.

66

You flip open the brooch and call the name ‘Izkhao’,
The bald-pated creature forms above you and grins
inanely. He draws in and holds a deep breath, and
expands slowly to three times his normal size. With
a sudden exhalation of wind, he breathes out, pro-
pelling himself into the advancing horde. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 289. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 157.

67
Shouts and the clash of metal warn you of a fight
ahead. You edge closer, to find Velkos locked in
combat with three ragged-looking desperadoes. If
vou go to her aid, turn to 305. If you remain hidden
and wait until the fight is over, turn to 209.

68

Nikko’s men move swiftly through the hard terrain
and you find it difficult to keep up with them. After
two days’ march, you enter a region of rolling
hills. Over a crest ride two armoured figures, and
the vanguard of your force charges to attack. Hud-
dled behind rocks for cover, you watch as the
mercenaries make light work of their opponents.

69

One of the men rides back and reports, ‘King’s men
on a scouting mission, sir, but we've silenced their
tongues.°

Nikko turns to you. ‘Ijust hope you know what you
are getting into. You can buy an army, but money
won't protect you from bad planning.’ Looking
ahead, he points to rows of banners advancing over
the hills on both sides. ‘Looks like we've got a fight
on our hands,’

if you charge into battle with the men, turn to 311. If
you decide to flee on your own, leaving the two
sides to fight it out, turn to 335.

69

The sound of jingling metal gets closer, and into the
glade marches a gang of men, carrying heavy sacks,
armed to the teeth and dressed in weather-worn
leather. Their leader wears a pair of golden spurs on
his boots. As soon as he sees Velkos, he lets out a
roar. ‘Breaker of rules! You dared to journey to
Takio?’ Velkos shakes her head and explains that
she has never left the mainland. The bandit leader
turns to you and asks what you have to say. If you
confirm Velkos’s story, turn to 154. If you tell how
Velkos found you on an island, turn to 369.

70-71

79

Huge and intimidating, the wagon looms above
you. Strange runes and emblems have been
scratched into every inch ofits black surface. As you
approach, the driver wakes up. He scrambles down
from his seat and adjusts his tatty uniform hur-
riedly. He seems terrified by your presence and
avoids looking you in the eye as he fumbles open
the carriage door. Out of the inner darkness steps a
tall, dark-clad figure. Turn to 310.

71

‘So quiet, weakling?” Your father’s voice booms out
across the chasm. You snap out of your trance and
steady yourself on the rocky pinnacle. “To think that
my child would side with the very men who
brought me down. You shame me, son!’

The apparition forms into a coiling snake and rears
up at you. You gaze at the vaporous beast, unable to
turn away. But then a child’s voice rings out
through the din. Instinctively you turn to greet it,
only to see the flaming Sturramak tearing towards
you. The creature dives, but you have enough time
to fling yourself away from its grasping talons.

72

Unable to stop, the Sturramak crashes into your
father’s visage and explodes.

You come down from the mountain to greet your
anxious friends. They tell you of King Poo Ta’s
heroic death as he led the last charge, and of the
peasant army’s steadfast defence of the town. Poo
Ta left no heirs; to the victorious army, you are his
natural successor. Without you to pull the land’s
factions together, the battle would never have been
won. Your coronation is conducted on the battle-
field, and your first action is to appoint Merzei
Grand Councillor of the Isles.

Bezenvial’s prophecy has come true. One of his
children now rules the Isles, but black blood no
longer taints your veins. Your absolute success
heralds a new era of peace and harmony for the Isles
of the Dawn.

‘No! Go back! The waters are too high!’ The
anguished shout reaches you as you flail about. The
boat is carried out of sight by a huge wave which
surges into the chamber. It sweeps you up to the
ceiling and you dash your head against the rock.

73-74

You choke on a mouthful of sea water and go under.
The chamber is completely submerged. There is no
escape.

ee ate

73
As you charge towards the village and into the heart

of battle, an enormous dragon-like beast takes to the
air from behind Feior’s lines. It swoops towards
your position, releasing a fiery bolt-blast of energy
which smashes into your men, instantly destroying
those it hits. The beast draws near, and you watchin
horror as it releases hundreds of squirming, leech-
like creatures from its underbelly. These vicious
purple grubs make short work of their victims. You
are caught in this shower of death. Your adventure
ends here.

74
You clamp your free hand over your mouth and

trust to your sense of direction, lowering your head
and squinting through the smoke. Your judgement
is sound and soon you are out of the chamber and
into the relative safety of the exit tunnel. Turn to
312.

79

75
Many of the bathers make it to their weapons, and

your chances of escape seem small, Wondering if
things might have been different if you had been on
the other side, you glance back to see Merzei charg-
ing towards a group of fighters. The situation seems
hopeless, but you prepare to fight a pair of attackers:

SKILL STAMINA
ROBBER 5 6
SLAVER 4 8

You must fight both the men at the same time. Each
will make a separate attack on you during each
Attack Round, but you must choose which of the
two you will fight. Fight your nominated target as in
anormal battle. Against the other opponent, throw
the dice for your Attack Strength in the normal way,
but if your Attack Strength is greater you will not
wound him, you will just have parried his blow. Of
course, if his Attack Strength is greater, he will
wound you in the normal way. If you win, turn to
202.

76-78

76

Thick vegetation clogs both sides of the bank and
walking becomes more difficult. Eventually the
weeds become impenetrable, and you are forced to
come to a halt. Looking around for a means to
continue, you espy a small boat, lodged ina thicket
of reeds on the opposite bank. Strong currents seem
ready to tug it free. If you swim out to it, turn to 324.
If you decide to turn back and follow the river
upstream, turn to 148.

77
Grabbing a horse, you ride off quickly in pursuit of
Feior, while Credas and the Prophet hold off the
monster. Roll three dice. If the result is less than or
equal to your STAMINA, turn to 233. If the result is
greater than your STAMINA, turn to 129.

78

Minutes later, a dark wooden hull looms up ahead
of you. Strong arms reach down and pull you from
the water up into a small boat. Your rescuer is a
woman, dressed practically in leather, and with a
sailor’s long knife at her belt. As you look her over
she stares at you, her brows furrowing, ‘Who in
all the Isles are you?’ she cries. ‘And what has
happened to Thandile?’

If you shrug your shoulders and say you've never
heard of Thandile, turn to 384. If you tell her about
the dead man you found, turn to 189.

79—80

79
Cautiously, you approach the captive. He is a rid-

iculous sight to behold: his visor has slipped down
over his eyes, and the scroll between his teeth
converts his cries into animal grunts. You tug the
parchment from his mouth, only to uncork a tirade
of insults. ‘Hah! | knew there must be two of you.
How could your pathetic accomplice get the better
of one of Feior’s elite officers? Untie me before I
summon my fellow-soldiers and grind you and your
babbling friend into a pulp.’ You explain that you
know nothing of his attacker and untie him. While
accepting your ignorance, he still seems wary of
you, and marches off to collect his clothes, leaving
you alone. You examine the soggy scroll but cannot
decipher its contents. Shrugging, you tuck it into
your pocket and set off towards the village. Turn to
263.

So
‘Excellent, excellent,’ froths the merchant. ‘A deal
well done is a blessing in clover!’ From his palan-
quin he retrieves a small burlap bag, from which he
tips a handful of sparkling diamonds. ‘I think you'll
find this payment is in order.’

The merchant trundles off with the idol, leaving you
to contemplate your new-found riches (don’t forget
to note it on your Adventure Sheet). If you head
north, back towards the isle from which you came,
turn to 29. If you go south, turn to 126.
81

81

You explain how bandits attacked your party on
the outskirts of the village. The commander looks
sceptical. ‘Bandits wiped out a whole company? It
hardly seems possible!’ Angrily, you ask why he
should question your word. ‘Forgive me, Master. I
had no idea the locals were against us. They seemed
greedy for your gold and easy to recruit. How
wrong I was, Your Highness. Let us leave this place
with haste.’

Inside the plush carriage, Tamroth continues to ask
questions about the bandits. You evade them skil-
fully, until finally he gives up his examination, He
pulls out a roll of maps from a compartment and
spreads one on the carriage floor. ‘Here is the battle-
plan you requested.’ He pauses. Pointing to a spot
on a range of mountains, he then asks, ‘Should we
relocate Baelmark’s troops further north, or leave
them where they are?’

If you continue to bluff the commander, turn to 299.
If you attempt to escape, turn to 252.

82-84

§2

Her face betrays no elation as you show her the
treasure. She simply gestures up the corridor, and
glances urgently backwards.

You hurry along for a while, then pause at a junc-
tion. You feel Velkos prod you forward, and you
half-turn to ask the way. You look down, to see
Velkos’s long knife protruding from your side.
Blackness comes. Your adventure ends here.

83
Feior’s pathetic figure has no defence against your
power. For a moment a charred silhouette stands
outlined against the brooding sky. Then it crumbles
away to ashes. Turn to 219.

84
The bandits draw their weapons and encircle you.
The leader speaks. “This fine-plumed bird refuses to
sing for us. What shall we do, compatriots?’ If you
try to battle your way out, turn to 398. If you give in
without a struggle, turn to 173.

35-86

85

Looking up, you get your first clear look at the huge
winged beast. Its stomach is so bloated that it re-
sembles a balloon, while its head and claws appear
to be those of some grotesquely warped fowl. The
blubbery folds of skin sway beneath its beak as it
beats its wings furiously to stay aloft. With surpris-
ing speed, it swoops to attack. You have no option
but to fight.

SHAEL-BEAST SKILL6 STAMINA 14

If you do not have a weapon, you must fight with
your SKILL reduced temporarily by 4. If you defeat
the creature, turn to 218.

86

Itis along walk up the path. You are barely half way
to the top when a black cloud descends upon you

At first you think it must be the shadow of some
giant flying creature — but then you realize that this
shadow has a life of its own. A strange sensation of
well-being comes over you. You feel lighter, and
you hardly notice as several of your possessions
vanish into scintillating specks. Cross off any of the
following that you may possess from your Adventure
Sheet: greatsword, spiked club, axe, shortsword,
knife, jewelled dagger, brooch, Shrivelled Claw.
Remember that if you have to fight without a
weapon at any time, you will fight with your Attack
Strength reduced by 4 points.

Invigorated, despite the loss of your possessions,
you complete your climb to the summit. Turn to 43.

87-88

87

You crane your neck around to trace the source of
the noise. Above you a large droplet of black liquid
plummets towards you. You instinctively dive to
one side, but you are too late to evade the globule. It
explodes on your shoulder with a blinding flash of
colour, and you are dashed to the floor. You crawl to
the far side of the chamber, your shoulder numb
and steaming. When you pick yourself up, you find
that the liquid has seared its way through the ma-
terial of your garment. Fearing the worst, you twist
your shoulder into view, but find it unharmed. A
thin film of multicoloured scales covers the exposed
flesh; it is sensitive to the touch, tingling slightly as
you brush your fingers across it. Turn to 50.

88

As you focus on the Word of Power, the ghastly
image of Bezenvial’s face forms in your mind, cloud-
ing your control. In vain you struggle to intone the
word, but your father’s power has silenced your
inner voice. The spell’s energy races round inside
your skull, unable to escape, building in intensity
until it explodes.

89-91

89

Next morning you set off through the trees. Half an
hour later, you leave the forest and, after another
hour's trek up into the hills, you find yourself on a
cliff edge, overlooking a verdant ravine. The bandits
begin to prepare ropes, and Sevmiroda asks for two
volunteers to guard the top of the cliff. If you
volunteer, turn to 290. If you choose instead to lead
the descent of the cliff, turn to 210.

- 90
Seizing the opportunity, you turn tail and flee back

to your boat. No Kreehuls follow you, but you feel
certain that your magic would not restrain them
from killing you if you tried once more to get to the
Sitting Prophet. You paddle disconsolately back up
the river.

The journey is hard (deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA), but this time you are prepared for the
dangers, and manage to avoid them. Eventually
you escape the jungle. The small boat which has
carried you through so much is finally lost when itis
holed by a jagged rock. Forced to abandon it, you
wade ashore and strike out along the river bank.
Turn to 148.

gt
You stagger about in rising panic, the smoke swirl-
ing and coiling round you like half-glimpsed ser-
pents. Your eyes burn with imagined fires, and the
chamber begins to turn, always in the opposite

92-94

direction to the way you want to go. The floor slides
up beside you and you stare intently at its rock,
inches from your face. Your adventure ends here.

92
Success! You finally punch a hole through Feior’s
lines. Your peasant marauders swarm into the gap
and rout the enemy, who fall back to open ground,
only to be cut down by the waiting archers and
cavalry. Slowly your army forces home its advan-
tage, and the battle seems won. All that remains of
the village centre is charred ruins. The Sitting
Prophet lies fiat, barely moving. Above him, ready
to strike, hovers the Sturramak. If you have the
multicoloured scales, turn to 183, Otherwise, turn

to 259.

93
You now have little choice but to head towards the
sea. Turn to 275.

94
You continue to wander through the hills until a cry
from up ahead sends you scurrying for cover. You
watch from behind a rock as a lone rider gallops over

95

the crest of the hill. tis Merzei. The skinny leader of
men pulls up and grins confidently. “We are ready!
The power of reason has triumphed. See for your-
self.’

As he speaks, thousands of peasants begin to
stream over the hill, brandishing improvised
weapons. “Take us to the enemy!’ You mount up
and lead the rabble towards the enemy in the north.
When you arrive, a day later, the battle is already
raging. The king’s men are all but beaten, and
Feior’s troops surround them. High above the
mélée, spewing bursts of flame into the throng,
hovers a dragon-like creature. Merzei delivers a
defiant speech to the people and orders them to
charge. If you fused Credas with the Sitting
Prophet, turn to 28. Otherwise, turn to 304.

5
You run up in front of the man and gesture for him
to stop. He guesses immediately what your busi-
ness is. “Don’t hurt me,’ he whines pitiably. ‘I’m
only a poor man, but what wealth I have, you may

96-97

take. Only please leave me my memento: it was
given to me by my mother.’ He tosses his saddle-
bags into the dirt at your feet but clutches on to a
small box. If you pick up the saddlebags and return
to the outlaws, turn to 243. If you reach up and
snatch the box from him, turn to 319.

96

You call the sacred word from your memory and
shout it into the jungle’s mists. Pain wells up inside
you, until you force it out from within, directing it at
the advancing horde. A blurred blast of energy
crashes into at least a hundred Kreehuls, transform-
ing them into a contorted mass of limbs. Others
advance to take their place, however, and you can
no longer summon the energy to repel them. They
swarm towards you, and your end is mercifully
quick.

You hurry through the city streets and along a series
of narrow alleyways, while ahead of you hoofbeats
rattle against stone. At a crossroads you catch up
with the horse and its multicoloured rider; the two
are welded together by some bizarre sorcery. The
horse’s mouth opens and a piping voice splutters at
you: ‘Rat trapped in a maze. And how is it going to
get out?’ The rider stares at you, his eyes blank. ‘It
needs a friend, it does. Someone to carry it from the
city, someone who knows.’ If you attempt to be-
fnend the mutant rider, turn to 212. If you leave it
and make for the sea, turn to 175.

98-99

Soothing patterns form in the air about you and
calmness washes over you; Feior’s desperate
puffing and blowing seems ridiculous to you, Atlast
he unleashes a furious bolt of energy; it streaks
towards you, singeing the very air as it passes, You

meet your fate with serenity. The bolt destroys you
instantly, ;

99
Sparks dance in front of you, and your muscles

alternately tense and relax. Waves of panic course
through you. Once in the safety of the exit tunnel,
you hear a chuckling sound, Izkhao stands before
you, the brooch clutched in his stubby fingers. He
winks at you. “B-b-b-bye!’ he says, and vanishes ina
sparkling of diamond dust, Not only have you lost

the brooch, you may no longer call on Izkhao for
aid. Turn to 312.

100-101

100
You hesitate. Despite having doubled your forces,
you are still unsure how to deploy them. As the
minutes tick away, the invading army grows more
threatening. Eventually you decide to send the
peasants into the village below, in order to slow
down Feior’s advance, and you will lead the cavalry
round the edges of the nearby forest to attack his
flanks. You charge down into the valley and veer off
towards the forest. Merzei’s forces pour down to-
wards the village and join the battle. You reach the
tree-line, only to see a volley of arrows shot by
archers hidden within the woods. Before you can
pull up, the hail descends. . . Your adventure ends
here.

101
You turn away, wade back through the mud, and
rejoin the road — leaving the two pathetic souls to
their shouting. Something inside tells you that ex-
tending charity to such lowly beings is beneath your
Station, After a mile or two, you come to a fork
which leads off into the forest. If you take it, turn to
35. Lf you continue on the main road, burn to 361.

102-103

102
Izkhao wastes no time. No sooner is he out of the
brooch than he launches a stinging uppercut to
Feior’s jaw. Your brother goes down like a paper
house in a hurricane. Izkhao turns to you and grins,
‘T’ve always w-w-w-wanted to do that, Master!’

You stare down at your brother’s unconscious form;
obviously, he’s not to be trusted. If you kill him
now, turn to 219. If you wake him up and take him
prisoner, turn to 264.

103

‘Liar!’ she shouts, drawing a sailor’s long knife and
stepping towards you. She starts to rock from side
to side so that the boat heaves beneath your feet.
‘You've killed Thandile and stolen his goods, but
you wor’ t pull the same trick on me,’ she cries, and
lunges for you with her knife. She’s more used than
you to fighting on board ship and your wild dodge
carries you, crashing, into the bobom-deduct 1 point
from your STAMINA, Then you are embroiled with
each other in close combat, reeling and stumbling as
the boat rocks. A sword is useless to you here
amongst the rope and tackle. You fight with your
SKILL reduced temporarily by 4 points.

VELKOS SKILL6 STAMINA 6

If you defeat her, turn to 60.

104-106

104
Just as the blob reaches your grip, you throw out
your arms and dive backwards, grasping for a near-
by vine. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 266.
If you are Unlucky, turn to 316.

105
You know that you cannot afford to be in the way of
one of the creature’s bolts, so you circle warily,
looking for a vulnerable spot. A bolt streaks towards
you and instinctively you hold out your hands to
ward it off ... the bolt stops, inches from your
palms. You push out with your hands and the bolt
streaks back at the Polybleb. There is a flash, and the
creature vaporizes in a fine spray of scintillating
particles. You have learnt the power of Disruption.
This is known to you by the name ‘Baopo’. When-
ever you see this as an option, you may choose to
use it as your new power. Turn to 245.

106
You should choose an option that you have not
already chosen:

Look for mercenaries to recruit? Turn to 191
Try to find Merzei (if you recognize

the name)? Turn to 279
Try to find the king’s army? Turn to 216
Recruit outlaws to the cause? Turn to 349
Follow your instincts? Turn to 261

107-109

107
Add 4 to the number you rolled and write down the
result in the sKILL box of your Adventure Sheet. Roll
two dice. If the result is less than or equal to your
SKILL, turn to 303. If the result is greater than your
SKILL, turn to 204.

108
You grab the thread and twist it round your wrist.
The creature senses your contact and lifts off, jerk-
ing you up into the air, high above river and out of
arrow-shot. Beneath you, the river runs deep into
the jungle, occasionally disappearing beneath the
rich canopy. Just as your arms seem to pop from
their sockets, the dragonfly begins its descent.
When you are no more than five metres from the
ground, your grip finally breaks and you land safely
in a shallow swamp. The creature remains above
you, hovering expectantly. Wading through the
scummy water, you come toa clearing. Turn to 366.

109
The bandits begin to stamp their feet as you divest
yourself of your heavier equipment and prepare to
take on your former travelling companion in com-
bat. She tests the weight and balance of her knife,
then faces you.

VELKOS SKILL 6 STAMINA 6

If you beat her, turn to 267.

110-112

110

You follow the path as it weaves to and fro among
the trees. After a little while there is the sound of
crashing from up ahead. An armoured figure, its
hands clutched to its head, races round the corner.
You are taken by surprise as the fellow careens into
you, knocking you over — deduct 1 point from your
STAMINA. He roars and draws a wicked-looking
spiked club from his belt, then begins to swing
wildly in your direction. His helmet seems to have
been crushed so that he cannot see, but he is still a
dangerous opponent.

BLINDED BANDIT SKILL 4 STAMINA 10
If you defeat the bandit, turn to 387.

111
The Sturramak dives on you before you can escape.

Perhaps sensing your mastery of magic, it slashes at
you with razor-sharp claws.

STURRAMAK
If you defeat the Sturramak, turn to 323.

SKILL 11 STAMINA 25

112
You pass your clothes to the boy, keeping your most
valuable possessions with you, and push open the
tavern door. A thick wall of steam prevents you
seeing into the centre of the room. Carefully you
step inside and notice that there are rows of pegs set
into the wall on which clothes and weapons are
hung. Your suspicions aroused, you swing back

113-114

around — just in time to watch the urchin race away
with your robes. Muttering oaths, you walk outinto
the steamy haze. . . and fall headlong into a pool of
water. Turn to 286.

113
At the end of the chamber is a pair of huge doors,
which you heave open. Just beyond them is a huge,
red wax barrier, sealing the archway. A circular hole
large enough for you to climb through has been
burned through. The familiar pain nags at you once
more. Behind you there is a creaking, rustling
sound. If you turn to see what is making the noise,
turn to 207. If you squeeze through the opening,
turn to 334.

114
‘They attacked from yonder ridge — thousands of
them, swinging evil-looking swords about their
heads.’ The smaller of the two peasants points off
into the darkness with the broken shaft of an arrow.
‘The garrison troops didn’t stand a chance. Boys
they were, didn’t know one end of a halberd from
the other. Reckon we're in for some bad times if
Feior’s lot take over.’ You walk into the firelight and
hail the men, but they leap like startled deer and run
off into the night. Gazing into the fire’s blaze you
notice that it is fuelled by thousands of broken
arrows. You pick up a snapped shaft (note this on
your Adventure Sheet) and return to the Prophet. The
rest of the night passes peacefully. Turn to 393.

415-118

115
You manage to keep your mouth shut as you are
tugged through the intoxicating smoke, Although
you feel nauseous, you retain your wits and, once in
the safety of the tunnel, order Izkhao back into the
brooch. Turn to 312.

116
The last voice you hear as you slide into uncon-
sciousness is your father’s. ‘Your time will come,
child. Make me proud of you, and all that I have will
be yours.’ Turn to 1:

117
Velkos eyes you suspiciously and smirks. Her
silence unsettles you even more. She walks out of
the cave, surveys the beach and points to a neg-
lected path that leads up the cliff. ‘I suggest you
head that way if you're to have a chance,’ she says
‘If they catch you, don’t tell them where you came
from, And don’t mention me, unless you are as
determined to die as you appear to be.”

You thank her tersely and make your way up the
rocky path without looking back. Turn to 19,

118

The birds’ flight forms patterns in the air, patterns
which tease your memory. Images flash before your
eyes; you see once more the glyphs on your sar-
cophagus, and a feeling of calm descends on you.
You have learnt the power of Harmonization.
Whenever you see the word ‘Tiaohe’ as an option,
you will be able to use this power.

119-120

You step forward, and the birds part before you, as
if they sense your command of their power. Turn to
16.

119
You head outinto the countryside. Although time is
short, you have much ground to cover. First you
must decide how you will start to recruit men. Will
you:

Search for Merzei? Turn to 279
Recruit an outlaw band? Turn to 349
Try to hire mercenaries? Turn to 191
Follow your instincts? Turn to 261

ie Z
ee

120

Your stomach lurches dizzily and the smoke around
you glows purple as your power begins to flow. Its
wreaths and coils start to move sluggishly, then take
on more substantial form. Soon the glow of your
own power is all that enables you to see. Around
you the smoke mutates to liquid, a viscous, acrid-
smelling treacle which rises around you. Too late
you realize your mistake. The liquid rises up past
your chest as you flail your arms desperately in its
syrupy embrace, all thought of gemstones and
wealth now gone. Your adventure ends here.

121-123

121

You look down into the chamber below, watching
as the blue torch-flames snake outwards and com-
bine into a glowing sphere. The voice comes again,
tinged with sadness. ‘Too soon, too soon! For the
sake of the Isles, remember all I have taught you.’
As he speaks, you feel the stairs quiver beneath
your feet. The pressure grows, and your feet slip on
the crumbling stone. The stairs are quickly reduced
to a rubble-strewn slope, and you scrabble franti-
cally for purchase. Roll two dice and note down the
result, then turn to 223.

122
You control your heaving stomach and send ghastly
purple shapes groping out towards Feior. He stares
at them in panic, and flails desperately with his
arms. The shapes grip him, and he wails frantically.
Now is your chance to finish the duel. Which power
do you use:

Baopo? Turn to 83

Izkhao? Turn to 396

Tiaohe? Turn to 246

Shangsuo? Tum to 7
123

As he spots your wound, the bandit leader lets outa
shout. ‘Ha! That's a Silverine bite if I know what's
what. You've met Thandile, and I'll wager you’ve
done him no good.’ Turn to 173.

124-126

124
Shaking with fear, you clear your mind, summon
the word and speak it aloud. A warm tingle spreads
through you, collecting in a ball of energy at your
fingertips. You send the spell flying towards the
rampaging Kreehuls, and you watch as it crashes
into the water, instantly freezing its surface. Atleast
a thousand creatures stand trapped by your magic,
croaking in fear and anger. Your feet are free, and
you carefully navigate around the Kreehuls’ flailing
arms. Turn to 33.

125
You leap at the whirling tentacles and strike. The
heat is so intense that you must deduct 2 points
from your STAMINA for each round you are in
combat, even if you have a higher Attack Strength.

POLYBLEB
If you defeat the Polybleb, turn to 245.

SKILL5 STAMINA 7

126
In the first village you stop at, news is rife of trouble
brewing in the south. Fifty years ago, the Isles of the
Dawn were ruled by Bezenvial, a despotic fiend
whose corruption and cruelty earned him the
hatred of all his subjects. He was finally overcome
by the Triurge of Aven, sorcerers of great power,
who destroyed his cityport on the northern island of
Takio and banished him to the shadow realms. Now
his son, Feior, has returned. He is raising an army
and will soon clash with the forces of King Poo Ta.

127-128

His soldiers are foreigners and creatures ofill-omen,
as well as the most despicable mercenaries of the
Isles. They pillage the countryside as they go,
forcing refugees to flee north.

If you have a Bejewelled Box, turn to 377. Other-
wise, if you decide to travel north to avoid the war,
turn to 29. If you try to raise an army to help in the
war against Feior, turn to 119.

127

The huge sphere bounces against the ship, and the
dark shape within it starts scrabbling frantically.
The ball rears up against the rail — it is nearly on the
deck. You pick up the pole and swing it two-handed
at your opponent. It strikes the membrane where
the dark shape is pushing, and the ball rears back,
splashing into the water below. With another prod
of the pole the sphere is sent rolling back into the
mist whence it came. As it disappears, you think
you can hear a pitiful wailing from within the
rubbery prison.

You are very tired now. If you let sleep take its
course, turn to 292. If you struggle to stay awake,
turn to 247.

128
You are toppled by a blow from behind. Then you
feel yourself gripped powerfully by the shoulders
and wrenched up, out from the mud, spluttering
and gasping; you leave the ground and your legs
dangle helplessly. All you can see of the creature

129-130

that is carrying you up is its huge, bloated under-
belly and its scrawny legs. Its foul smell is beyond
description; your eyes water and breathing is almost
impossible. The creature’s flying is dangerously
erratic. You can hear its tiny wings flapping desper-
ately as you lurch across treetops and fields. If you
hang on and wait to see what happens, tur to 358.
If you try to struggle free, Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 227. If you are Unlucky, turn to 322.

129
You drag yourself up the mountainside, barely able
to focus on Feior. By the time you have crawled up,
he has ensconced himself on the top of a pinnacle of
rock. You look up, bleary eyed: Feior is puffing and
gasping, his face red and his arms flailing. Turn to

130

The skittering sound of rocks falling is the only
warning of landslide. Velkos grabs you and throws
you to one side as stones crash down from the rock,
dislodged perhaps by your noisy approach. Your
face stings and, when you wipe it, your hand comes
away red with your own blood. You stare at the
stain, light-headed, not quite realizing that you
were hit (deduct 1 point from your sTAMINA). A
screech! Pounding up the slope towards you are two
bald, baboon-like creatures, each madly waving two
tails. Turn to 42.

131-132

131
You continue on your voyage downriver. The mist
thickens and brings with it a chorus of strange
animal cries. The banks rise up some five metres or
more above you, and dark shapes flit among the
foliage. The noises suddenly stop. A slender arrow
bursts through the undergrowth, arcs lazily to-
wards you and thuds into the prow. You crouch on
the deck as more arrows rain down from the unseen
attackers. If you have the Small Jar, turn to 306. If
you sit tight and wait for the shooting to stop, turn
to 231. If you have the Chang whistle and wish to
use it, turn to 374.

132

The ground between the buildings is scored by
deep, long ruts. You trace these marks to some of
the most violently disfigured houses. The walls
around here have a metallic sheen, and the smell of
sulphur in the air increases. You soon discover the
source of the ruts when you come upon a marrow-
shaped object as thick as your waist. Its husk is
intricately woven from wicker and it lies at the end
of a deep gash, resting at the foot of an undamaged
wall. Will you:

Examine the object? Turn to 351
Ignore it and make your way to the

sea wall? Turn to 10
Continue searching among the

buildings? Turn to 379

133-134

133
You run your fingers across its surface, then tift it
from its hook. A bare wall lies behind it.

‘Unhand me, you impolite youth!’ says a voice from
the canvas. You drop the painting in surprise, and
leap back as the subject of the painting materializes
in front of you. ‘Look to the future before you're too
old to change your ways!’ He points to the window,
then does a backflip into an open chest. The lid
slams down on him. Tentatively, you open the chest
but find it empty. The only way out is through the
window, so you climb on to the ledge. Turn to 344.

134

Velkos shins up the trunk of the tree then reaches
down to give you a helping hand. She climbs further
up the tree as you settle yourself among the lower
branches. The jingling of metal gets closer, and into
the glade marches a gang of men, armed to the teeth
and dressed in weather-worn leather; they carry
heavy sacks. Their leader wears a pair of golden
spurs on his boots. He looks around suspiciously
and then turns his head rapidly in your direction.
‘Climb down,’ he calls. ‘No one hides from me.’
Reluctantly you lower yourself down the tree trunk,
and are at once surrounded by bandits. You realize
that Velkos has not come down. If you tell the
bandit leader that she is hiding in the tree, turn to
234. If you keep quiet about her, turn to 365.

135-136

135
His strike misses, and you knock the dagger from

his right hand. You grab it, in time to parry Tam-
roth’s second thrust. You must fight to the death.

TAMROTH SKILL6 STAMINA 8

If you win, turn to 252.

136
‘I’m a fountain of charity,’ says the man-horse
mutant, ‘ever willing to transport rats to new
realms.’ The human part of the creature gestures
you to climb up on to his back, and soon you are
galloping towards the city gate. As you approach, a
wall of fire springs up to bar your way, but your
mount plunges on regardless. The flames bathe you
with a gentle heat, bringing a feeling of well-being
and happiness. You ride out into the charred
meadowland around the city, your skin vivid and
colourful, your muscles powerful, your hoofs well-
shod, glad of the company. There are now three of
you to leap and gallop and play. It will be a good life.

137-139

137
You leave the king's forces preparing for battle, and
set out into the hills alone, leaving his army behind.
If you are expecting Merzei, turn to 94. Otherwise,
turn to 335.

138
You prepare to strike, but a sharp voice interrupts:
‘No! Come to met’ No one else is in the chamber, but
it seems that the voice came from the passageway
leading out. You feel drawn to this passage; before
you go, however, you may take a weapon from one
of the bandits if you wish: a sword, an axe or a knife

(if you take one, note it on your Equipment List),
Turn to 16.

Live

139
The trader goes down, but you stagger with the
eHort, His blade carried poison! Deduct point from
your SKILL. Somehow you drag yourself into cover
and rest fora few hours before setting offagain. You
make your way down from the hills into the lusher
lowlands. Turn to 19.

140-141

140
You had not realized how tired you are. You black
out briefly as nausea grips you, and the purple glow
you create is weak, compared with the tendrils that
snake towards you from Feior’s outstretched arms.
Your spell is barely half way towards your opponent
when you feel your body begin to warp and stretch.
Summoning all your reserves, you concentrate on
the changes, maintaining your true form. But this

Jeaves you no defence against Feior’s next spell -a
blast which strikes, you full on, incinerating you
instantly.

141

You follow the trail of clothes away from the road
and into some thick gorse. Lying there, tied up like a
pig for roasting, is a helmeted man. A parchment
scroll protrudes from his jet-black visor. He tries to
roll away as you approach, moaning when the
thistles rake his yellow flesh. A broken half-sword
lies by him — further evidence of battle.

Will you:
Unte him? Turn to 330
Remove the scroll from his mouth
first? Turn to 79
Leave him and press on to the
village? Turn to 263

142

142
The silver-furred creature eyes you suspiciously as
you approach. Its long snout twitches at you,
sniffing you out. You observe that a leather cord
attached to its collar tethers it to the wrist of its dead
master. Warily, you examine the corpse. The man is
dressed simply, but his leather jerkin is fitted with
pouches and pockets, all bulging with gems and
small jewellery. A long, blunt, pocket knife is
gripped in one hand; a gem-encrusted tara lies,
centimetres from the other. You realize that he must
have been killed by a vicious blow from behind, his
murderer having caught him by surprise. You flinch
involuntarily and scan the darkness for his killer. If
you want to leave the chamber now, turn to 217. If
you would rather have another look at your sar-
cophagus, turn to 315.

143-145

143

The two peasants abandon their protestations and
lead the cart off the track, avoiding the idol. Then
they trundle off into the distance. You are now stuck
in the middle of the countryside with an enormous
bronze idol. If you decide to abandon it and follow
the trail, turn to 216. If you wait for the next traveller
on the road, turn to 244.

144
The bandits laugh. ‘Well, if you weren’t one before,
you are now"’ says the leader, clapping you on the
shoulder. Turn to 336.

145
The coin lands with Feior’s crowned head upper-
most. Your brother’s form bursts back into exist-
ence. He stoops, picks up the coin at his feet, smiles
and flicks it at you. You reach to catch it.

You stare up at him as he looms above you. He
bends down to pick you up, and you disappear into
the darkness of his pocket.

146

With a leap, you charge off down the slope of the
mountainside. The tall, coarse grass whips against
your legs as you plummet down the steep incline.
From behind you comes a harsh, guttural shout and
you realize that you are an easy target. Pain blos-
soms in your chest. Your legs crumple but your
momentum carries you on, and you fall, rolling
head over heels, down the slope. You come to rest
in a small depression. The steel head of a crossbow
bolt protrudes rudely from your flesh. As you stare
helplessly down at the missile, a consuming resent-
ment flows through your mind and searing beams
of light flare from your eyes, striking the quarrel and
engulfing it in a pale iridescence. When the light
fades, you see that the bolt which impaled you has
also vanished! But the blood that flows thickly from
the wound is real. Your vision fades into welcoming
darkness.

j “4
’ f iN
}

6

147-149

147

The pain in your head grows, and you prod the
white warrior impatiently. He rocks backwards,
then pitches forward and smashes to the floor. The
wreckage of his shattered remains exposes a dusty
skeleton within; apart from this, the warrior was
little more than a hollow vessel. The chamber
shakes, and sparks fly dizzily across your field of
vision. Pausing only to pick up the warrior’s short-
sword and shield (note that you have them on your
Equipment List), you hurry off through the swaying
statues to the far end of the chamber (turn to 113).

148
You follow the course of the stream until its banks
become too treacherous, forcing you up into the
rolling hills. Turn to 216.

149
The two creatures begin to move. You watch as they

find their feet on the pool's slippery floor. Smoke
and steam envelop you. Losing sight of the beasts,
you make for the edge, only to be forced back by
other frightened bathers. Briefly, the smoke clears
and you find yourself face to face with one of
Merzei’s creations. Roughly human in shape, its
clumsy features are only partially formed. Its skin is
covered in a thick slime, which fizzes and crackles.
As it wades towards you, the creature spits out
more of this foul paste, You dodge to avoid the
globules and prepare to defend yourself. If you do

150-152

not have a weapon, you must fight with your SKILL
reduced by 4 points.

SOSEKI SKILL8 STAMINA 8

If you win, turn to 202,

150
With a pop, Izkhao emerges from the brooch. He
smiles at you, then turns to beam at the outlaws.
They back away, making frantic gestures of
superstitious warding. Izkhao leaps at them, and
they flee, screaming. He shrugs, and grins at you.
‘C-c-c-cowards! he says, then disappears back into
the brooch. Turn to 19.

151
You open the door and walk out into the corridor.
The air is filled with shouting and banging. Servants
scurry past without stopping to bow. They all seem
as frightened as you. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 229. If you are Unlucky, turn to 188.

152
You cannot be sure whether you are dreaming or
not. It seems that someone is searching through
your possessions very carefully. You come to your
senses and spring up, to find Velkos clutching a
brooch, which she seems to have retrieved from
your clothing. Sullenly she hands it to you. ‘I was
only trying to find out who you are,’ she says. “You
can’t be too careful nowadays,’ You glare at her,
then turn your attention to the brooch. It is of a

153-154

simple design, decorated with glyphs similar to
those you found on your sarcophagus, and with a
little clasp on it. If you open the brooch now, note
down the number ‘152’ and turn to 343. If you
decide not to, note down the number ‘343’ next to
the brooch on your Adventure Sheel. You may open
the brooch at any time when you are not involved in
combat: make a note of the number of the paragraph
you are at, then turn to 343. Now turn to 45.

153

You wait for a clearing to appear, then ground your
boat. Mooring it to a tree-stump, you step out of it
on ta the jungle floor and gaze into the depths.
Small birds of all shapes and sizes screech above
you, and thick moss has painted everything with its
dull green tones. If you strike out immediately into
the jungle, turn to 399. If you stay in the clearing and
rest, turn to 59.

154
You do your best to look honest and confirm that
you met Velkos some way inland. Velkos recom-
mends to the leader that you be allowed to join the

155

band; after looking you up and down, he agrees.
Velkos next suggests that you bear a tattoo as a sign
of your devotion to the group. There are many
outlaws, all well-armed and grim of feature, so it
seems unwise to argue. The needles are painful, but
the outlaws all assure you that the tattoo pricked
into the small of your back is a work of art. Note
down on your Adventure Sheet that you carry a
bandit tattoo. Turn to 336.

. 155
‘What stinking rabble is this that you drag around
with you like some dead mule?’ says the officer,
turning to the sentries with a smirk.

Merzei rises to his challenge. ‘You look like a
trussed-up duck, ready for roasting. It’s your
pompous posturing on behalf of that inbred nitwit,
Poo Ta, that has let the Dark Son of Bezenvial loose
on us.’

‘How dare you insult the king!’ growls the officer,
leaping towards Merzei.

You dive between them, hoping to cool their tem-
pers. But both men are proud. Merzei refuses to
apologize and calls you a traitor to the cause. ‘This is
ridiculous,’ he says to you. ‘Let these imperialist
oppressors fight their own battles. We will prevail in
the end. Down with the Tyrant! Up with the Coun-
cil!’ He marches back to his army and signals an
about-turn.

Your are left with the king’s army. Turn to 3.

°° © Eee ae

156-157

156

Before you stand row upon row of smooth, white,
motionless figures. Each holds a simple spear but
wears no armour. The low ceiling of the enormous
chamber adds to the feeling of oppression, and you
step cautiously between the serried ranks. The
sensation of pressure increases once more, and the
white statues tremble faintly, producing a hollow
ringing noise. You notice the familiar traceries of
cracks appearing in the marble floor and a haze of
dust wafting down from the ceiling. If you hurry
through the chamber to the far end, turn to 265. If
you stop to examine the white statues more closely,
turn to 55.

157

Izkhao screams at you, ‘I don’t like this g-g-g-g-
game no more, Master,’ and it flies up above the
battle. ‘I thinks I’ll watch you p-p-p-p-p-play now.
That'll be nice, won't it?’ Hardly able to believe
its action, you have just enough time to curse the
beast before the Kreehuls swarm over you. Your
adventure ends here.

es §«— See
158-160

158
Both men appear to be stuck fast in the steaming
mud. Their arms and legs may be only a few inches
below its surface, but the mud has solidifted around
them. They fall silent and eye your robes fearfully.
The younger one whispers to the other, ‘It’s them
again.’

The older of the two swallows and says, ‘We was
only going about our lawful business, we was. We
had no meaning to ‘arm you or your kind. Two days
we've been stuck here, Have pity, sir, and let us be
on our way,’

If you bear multicoloured scales, turn to 281. If you
choose to help the peasants, turn to 341. If you leave
their cries for the ears of others, turn to 101.

159

Feior is as slippery as an eel. As you free him from
the spell, he twists to one side, raises his arms and
begins to prepare a spell. You must react quickly. If
you try to destroy him with a spell, turn to 332. If
you draw a weapon and attack him, turn to 64. Or, if
you still command Izkhao, you may summon him to
help you (turn to 102).

160
More slavers rush to take the place of the men you
have killed. Velkos is nowhere to be seen - she must
have run into the cave. If you decide to fight the rest
of the slavers, turn to 394. If you flee into the tunnel
mouth, turn to 285.

161-162

161

The saddlebag turns out to contain several hundred
coins, which the outlaws gleefully share out (your
portion comes to 25 gold pieces). Their next stop is
an ale shop in the village. They are confident that
the feeble sergeant of the village will not take any
action, even if the merchant complains to him. After
buying a large keg of Xingdao, a potent local brew,
they return to the forest to celebrate, explaining that
the village tavern doesn’t heat the water enough for
their tastes. If you join the bandits’ celebrations,
turn to 378. If you refrain from drinking, turn to 307.

162
Merzei looks you up and down. ‘I see you have one
of my tracts,’ he says, ‘but I am not clear why I
should do this for you.’ Will you:

Tell him that you will reward him

with gold and riches? Turn to 320
Order him to obey you? Turn to 268
Say it will advance the cause? Turn to 54

163-164

163

Just inside the ramparts of the city stand platforms,
topped with powerful catapults, each with its own
supply of pitch-smeared projectiles. Two of the
engines are still winched back, primed for firing.
Beyond them the sea-ramparts rise, and you can
hear the crash of waves against rock. If you make
your way back through the city towards the gate,
turn to 132. If you search the buildings near the sea
wall, turn to 379.

164

The cramped village store is packed with locals.
Instead of the usual food and oddments you might
expect to find, the shelves are lined with swords,
armour and fighting provisions. Villagers haggle
angrily for weapons, thrusting money at the harried
shopkeeper. If you ‘dropped’ into the forest earlier,
turn to 44. Otherwise, turn to 205.

165-166

165

You wake up with a jerk. Huddled within your
silken sheets, you peer out into the bedchamber,
half expecting the evil face in your nightmare to
materialize again. But there is nothing — only the toy
soldiers and the clothes you left scattered the night
before. Feior’s precious wooden sword lies near a
pile of your spell books and practice slates. Nor-
mally, your brother never lets it out of his sight, and
you wonder where he can be. You check the adjoin-
ing chamber and find his bed empty. It is early, but,
outside your door, servants are rushing to and fro.
Then you remember - Father’s trip! All thoughts of
the nightmare disappear as you think of the excur-
sion the king has planned for you and Feior. The
court has been dull without soldiers to play with,
and your last week has been spent confined in the
keep. Someone begins to unlock your door, and you
dive back into bed and under the sheets. If you feign
sleep, turn to 211. Otherwise, turn to 241.

166
The going is rough among the scrub and soft earth,
but you make your way around the wood and head
up into the barren hills. Turn to 352.

167-168

167
You look the man full in the eyes and tell him to let
vou out of the cage, He gives a start, then slowly
pulls back the latch. You shuffle out and tell the
slave master to untie you and return your pos-
sessions to you. He complies, muttering apologies
and bowing. Soon you are free and stand in the
open air once more, stretching your tired limbs to
restore some of the circulation. If you have the
Shrivelled Claw, turn to 187. Otherwise, turn to 263.

168
The bandits back away from you, gesturing and
muttering charms of protection. ‘We have not
harmed you,’ says the leader. ‘Go in peace,’ You
assemble your belongings and make your way out
of the forest. Turn to 19.

=.
- ates
a - ™
~,» , ! ry \ ed

169-171

, Ly ify!" wn rit Vaud :

VEO | ill | | Ue de i
\! D | { \) wit | il Mid) HOt if

WE BAL OLE TMM HITT tte Aud

i) ult }/ ; 7 rh) ,

.) ' i

169

The battle rages on. Your battle plan begins to take
effect: Feior’s men are pradually being divided and
pushed to the outskirts of the village, where wave
after wave of cavalry tears into them, inflicting
heavy losses. Poo Ta’s knights, being heavy and
cumbersome in their armour, fare less well in the
street-fighting. The enemy hold their ground and
even threaten to counter-attack. Meanwhile the
struggle between the Sturramak and the Prophet
reaches a climax, and the golden idol smashes aside
a blast from the catlike dragon. The beast backs off
and retreats to a group of enemy soldiers. Victory is
in the balance, and one final push will tip the scales.
If you hired the mercenaries earlier on, turn to 364.
Otherwise, turn to 92.

170
Add 6 to the number you rolled and note the result
in the LUCK box of your Adventure Sheet.

As you charge across the room there is a fizzing
sound from directly above. Test your Luck (remem-
ber to deduct 1 point). If you are Lucky, turn to 295.
If you are Unlucky, turn to 87.

171
The route you scythed into the jungle is already
partially reclaimed by vines and creepers. Eventu-
ally you find your way back and prepare to leave. If
you have the Clay Effigy, turn to 131. Otherwise,
turn to 300.

172-174

172
‘I don’t know what reason you had for being on the
island, and I don’t care. Just solong as you pull your
weight and manage the ropes. And don’t go the
way of other fools — I’m pretty handy with this.’ She
draws a sailor's long knife, drives it into the hard-
wood of the deck, and seHles back with her hand on
the rudder, keeping her eyes on you the whole time.
‘Better get to work on those sails, hadn’t you,’ she
says. Turn to 220.

173
You are seized from behind and a sword is held at
your throat as the bandits take all your gear. Cross
all items off your Equipment List. The outlaws tie
your hands, blindfold you and lead you for some
distance before abandoning you. It takes you
several hours to free yourself. Turn to 19.

174
Feior’s eyes drift over to the huge idol sitting incon-
gruously in the back of the cart. ‘What is this strange
artefact? It makes me feel ill,’ he says.

You start to tell your brother how you braved the
Zushan Jungle to steal the Sitting Prophet. You lean
over to pat the idol. Then you are falling, falling into
a blackness that leers at you, mocking you for the
evil within your soul. Your adventure is over.

175-176

175

The mighty catapults raise their arms towards the
heavens, giving you an idea: perhaps you can
escape this blighted city using them. The sea will
break your fall and you should be able to swim along
the coast until you find a safe place to beach. Climb-
ing on to a nearby platform, you heave a large,
larsmeared missile into the waiting basket. You
then tug out the wooden pin which frees the cata-
pult bar and watch as the missile soars up and over
the city walls. You haven’t the strength to winch the
arm back, but there is another primed catapult, a
short distance away. Itis the work ofa moment to tie
a string to the wooden pin and then clamber into the
basket. Offering up a silent prayer to any deities
who happen to be listening, you give the string a
sharp tug. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to
236. If you are Unlucky, turn to 340

176
You tell Credas of the battle which took place in the
fields to the south.

He sighs. ‘Before we do what must be done! will tell
you something of your history. You are one of the

177

two children of Bezenvial, who ruled this island
with steel, fire and death until he was cast down.
The Triurge of Aven defeated him in a battle that
lasted many days: his cityport was destroyed and
Bezenvial himself banished to the shadow realms.
Now only one of the Triurge lives: for I am the last.

‘The Sitting Prophet is a potent force for Harmony,
and I sent you to fetch it because I knew that, if you
were a true child of your father, the idol would
destroy you utterly. But somehow you have been
cleansed of your evil heritage. Not so your brother,
Feior, who seeks to fulfil Bezenvial’s prophecy that
one of his children would rule the Isles of the Dawn
once more. He must be defeated, or else the people
will be ground under the iron heel of oppression.
We must use every power at our disposal. Do you
have the power of Mutation?’

If you have, turn to 284. If not, turn to 22.

177
You are blown backwards by the force of the explod-
ing cloud, and a sharp pain sears your face as it
blisters and blackens — deduct 2 points from your

178-179

STAMINA. You lie ina heap, head buried in the dirt,
as about you a whining, crashing and hissing
cacophony rages. It dies down at fast, and you
Stagger to your feet. Around you the walls of the
buildings are charred and disfigured, and a yellow,
sulphurous smoke hangs in the air. If you head for
the sea wails, turn to 10. If you continue to search
among the buildings, turn to 379.

178

You wade up to a large, pock-marked gentleman.
Choking on his ale in between sentences, he tells
you all about his journey across the island to meet
up with old mercenary friends. ‘There’s talk,’ he
says, ‘that one of Feior’s menis arrivin’ from the war
m the south, lookin’ fer men to train his troops.
Now, fightin’s all well and good. But the real
money’s in slaves.’ He is about to continue when
the tavern door bursts open. Turn to 52.

179
Roll one die. If the result is odd, turn to 25. If the
result is even, turn to 145.

180-182

180

From up ahead you hear the sounds of a struggle of
some kind. You approach cautiously and come
upon a strange battle. A short, scrawny fellow
without weapons or armour stands above a hulking
brigand in armour. Two horses crop the grass
nearby — it is clear that these are the horses of the
two riders who overtook you. Though you moved
quietly, the scrawny fellow looks up in surprise at
your approach. If you have a spiked club, turn to
331. If you don’t have one, turn to 269.

te

=
“t.cs

-

oe

~~

. ‘=
—_

4 7 : ei
# ined ipa. sa |
tee a
eis a a sa
: a
= t
j . “' A

‘i
'
% -¥ ~*

con)

—

. —\

as

Ayia Sateen,

att

x

, . ~—
NOT
| Pi -
yl

181

Tears stream down your face, and each breath sears
vour lungs. Unable to focus, you stumble on to the
bank and lash out at the largest tribesman.
Neelget 2 tar | Coughing violently and convulsed with pain, you
Riad y bat ie Gere & Bay hee have to fight doubled up (fight with your sKILL
(oe a if Se sare fe reduced temporarily by 4 points).

"rie , - JUNGLE MAN SKILL5 STAMINA 7

)
,
\
a
ie ties Se
a

If you win, turn to 257.

182
You spin around and run off into the town, casting
an anxious glance back over your shoulder to see
whether the bandits are following. You are in luck,
for you shake them off quickly. The town is dreary
and depressing, and you are tired. Turn to 263.

183-184

183

Your shoulder tingles. The ghostly image of Credas
appears above the Sitting Prophet. ‘Iam lost against
this beast. Do not waste your time saving me.’ He
points toa lone rider, who is galloping away into the
foothills. “Your brother. Go after him, before he
summons the darkness. Be quick!’ The image fades
as the Sturramak dives. If you pursue Feior, turn to
77. If you flee, turn to 327.

« 184

Pushed to their limits, your aching muscles fail you,
and you are swept down by the force of rubble.
Engulfed in the swirling radiance of the thing be-
low, you catch glimpses of a melancholy visage: he
stares balefully at you before being consumed by the
dust, which billows up from the mounting rubble.
The blue flames fragment and dissipate with an
echoing sigh.

The slide has left you partially buried, and you
struggle from the debris bruised and exhausted
(deduct 1 point from your sTAMINA). You wait for
the dust to settle then pick your way back up the
bare slope. Turn to 30.

185-186

185
When Credas sees what you have brought, his face
turns ashen. ‘T.. . ]- but how did you. . . ?’ he
mutters. Then he stares at you intently. ‘I never
guessed such evil could be purged,’ he says to no
one in particular. ‘I have committed a great crime.’

If you have a Broken Arrow Shaft, turn to 176.
Otherwise, turn to 296.

You realize that these fellows are indeed all that he
claims, and that the brave man stands little chance
of escaping alive. You wade past the other aston-
ished bathers, climb out and quickly wrap a towel
round you. Merzei beams at you. ‘I’m glad to see at
least one of you has the good sense to follow me.
Take this.’ He throws you a jewelled dagger, and
you turn to face the cut-throats as they advance.
‘Now, to work! Let’s cleanse the land of this scum’
Will you:

Fight with your dagger? Turn to 75
Say Biantéi? Turn to 270
Call Izkhao? Turn to 333
Name Shangsuo? Turn to 26
Say Baopo? Turn to 313

187-188

187

Among the possessions returned to you is a small
brooch. You don’t recall seeing it before, but, since it
is decorated with the same glyphs that adorned
your sarcophagus, it must be yours. There is a little
clasp on it. If you open the brooch now, note down
the number ‘152’ and turn to 343. If you prefer not
to, make a note of the number ‘343’ next to the
brooch on your Adventure Sheet. At any time, pro-
vided you are not involved in combat, you may
open the brooch: note down the number of the
paragraph you are at, then turn to 343. Now turn to
263.

188

You dash along the corridor, past the tapestries and
emblems of your noble family, along the vast hall-
ways, decked with arms and banners. All around,
courtiers are fleeing, clutching possessions and
gathering objects they come upon. You ignore the
people and run to the winding staircase, straight
into Panurge, your father’s priest.

‘Maior! I have been looking for you.” He smiles
calmly. ‘Take my hand, and I will lead you to your

189

father.’ The hawk-nosed mage extends his arm
impatiently.

If you follow him, turn to 359. If you decide to evade
him, turn to 229.

189

You cast your mind back to your first hours of
consciousness. Her hard features soften as you
describe the body that lay in your tomb chamber. It
is obvious that you guessed correctly. She turns
to look back at the city, her eyes moist. You say
nothing, respecting her moment of private grief. A
moment passes, then another. Finally she sighs and
turns back to you. ‘What are you gawping at?’ she
spits. ‘Get to work on the sails, and thank the gods
that I bothered to save you.’ Turn to 220.

190-191

190
The claws of a beast rake your insides. You retch,
and a purple glow surrounds you. The bandits
writhe in ghastly contortion as their bodies melt and
warp before your eyes. But the horror of it is that
they are still alive. Their distorted forms shamble
towards you. You try escape from them, but two
block your way; you must defeat them quickly.

oN
‘if
1%

"
4 ’
i
a
‘ .

SKILL STAMINA
First MUTATED
BANDIT 7 5
Second MUTATED
BANDIT 6 4

Fight the bandits one at a time. If at any time you roll
two fours for your Attack Strength, turn to 385. _
you defeat the bandits, turn to 29.

191
It doesn’t take you long to find out that a company
of fifty mercenaries is passing close by. You make
your way to their camp and approach their leader.
He introduces himself as Wol Nikko; he strikes you
as a shifty fellow who never seems to make eye
contact, His affected mannerisms suggest that he
has led a pampered early life, though you cannot
guess what led him to become a mercenary. He says
he will work for anyone who pays well, but that the
minimum charge for the hire of his band is 1,000
gold pieces. If you have the money, and wish to pay
hum, turn to 370. If you promise to pay the mercen-
ary the money later, turn to 226. If you abandon the

192-194

idea of recruiting mercenaries and wish to try
another alternative, return to 106 and choose again.

192

‘Quick, the Thaaza smoke is near!’ Velkos’s voice
urges you. She grabs your arm and drags you off,
down another tunnel. A screeching echoes along
the tunnels, and after a while you pass a side-tunnel
from which issue pitiful, half-human screams. You
pause at the tunnel mouth, but Velkos grabs you
roughly. ‘It’s just some Cressent young,’ she hisses.
‘Leave them for the traders.’

If you follow Velkos, turn to 298. If you go down the
side-tunnel, turn to 8.

193
In desperation you summon the word, and the

Kreehuls’ advance slows. But your power cannot
control so many creatures for long — you have
simply bought yourself some extra time. You may
flee (turn to go), try to make off with the idol (turn to
13), or make use of one of the following powers, if
you have them:

Shangsuo Turn to 124
Izkhao Turn to 66
Biantai Turn to 96
Baopo Turn to 235

194
The multicoloured scales on your shoulder tingle as
you reach towards the object. If you handle the

195-197

object, turn to 24. If you leave it where it is and
instead make for the sea walls of the city, turn to 10.

195
You leap to one side as the burst of energy spews
forth from Feior’s mouth and streaks towards you.
The spell finds its target, however; before you can
flee further, you are embraced by the pure heat of
annihilation.

By the gods, this beer is strong! The world lurches
around you, and the distorted faces of the outlaws
leer and grimace. To one side you see Velkos look-
ing at you; she smiles at some private thought,
then turns away. Swirling patterns form before
your eyes. You black out. You do not recover
consciousness,

197
You blink awake and find yourself alone by the
burnt-out fire. Itis early morning, and the village is
strangely silent. No smoke rises from the houses,
and the livestock that roamed the square have
vanished. Standing outside the tavern is a huge

a «=e

198~200

black carriage, twice the size of a normal vehicle.
Two antlered beasts are yoked to it, and the driver
dozes on the roof. If you avoid the battle-wagon and
head out of the village, turn to 2. If you approach the
carriage cautiously, turn to 70.

198
You hurry out of the village, abandoning the poor
wretch to his fate. Looking back, you see three
armoured men staring after you. It seems you have
had a narrow escape. Turn to 29.

199
These vicious creatures have formed into a single,
seething mass of destruction. Frantically you try to
beach your craft — but in an instant your boat is
engulfed with screeching. You perish amid a mass
of snapping teeth.

200
You quicken your stride, taking the steps three at a
time, for your head is pounding once more. The
stairs seem increasingly to be laden with thick dust,
which shifts underfoot. It soon dawns on you that
the stairs are crumbling and you can find little
purchase on the disintegrating surface. Frantically
you claw your way up, flattening yourself against
the slope. Dust fills your lings and eyes; exhaustion
is close. Roll two dice and note down the result,
then turn to 357.

201-202

201
The lid of the box flips open of its own accord, and a
shimmering haze of vapour emerges. You clamp
your mouth shut and stagger backwards, but not
before some of the vapour burns its way into your
windpipe - deduct 1 point from your stamina,
You retch horribly and watch, helpless, as the mer-
chant spurs his donkey towards the safety of the
town. You leave the box where it lies in the dirt, but
Tetrieve the saddlebag. Turn to 161.

202

You dash through the tavern’s exit and out into the
village square, grabbing some filthy clothes as you
go (note this on your Adventure Sheet). Pulling on
the robes, you feel a hard object in one of the
pockets. It proves to be a short length of tube with
several holes drilled in it, and a length of cord
attached; make a note that you have a Chang
whistle. In the square you notice a large black
carriage parked near the storehouse. Two antlered
beasts are yoked to it, and the driver is asleep on the
roof, oblivious to the din coming from the tavern. If
you avoid the battie-wagon and head quickly out of
the village, turn to 2. If, however, you decide to
approach it cautiously, turn to 70.

203-205

203

By the time you fling a glittering Lock spell at Feior,
a purple glow is obscuring his features. Your spell is
cancelled out; as the magical force clears, you see
that Feior has prepared a bolt of energy. It flashes
towards you before you can prepare any defence
and burns you up in an instant.

204

As you squeeze through the opening into the warm
sunlight, a shaft of pain shoots up your right leg as a
chunk of rock glances off it - deduct 1 point from
your sTAMINA, Grabbing the lip of the entrance
steps, you drag yourself painfully through the
mouth out of the underworld. You collapse in a
heap as a gout of dust is forced from the hole: there
is a distant roar of collapsing masonry, then the
hanging cloud of dust is sucked violently back into
the depths, tugging at your clothes as it retreats.
You have escaped. Turn to 242.

205
Your money is as good as the next man’s. Most of
the merchandise is second hand and in bad repair.
However, you do find a serviceable sword, which
will cost you the exorbitant price of 100 gold pieces,
and 2 sets of Provisions for 30 gold pieces each. (If
you buy the weapon or the Provisions, make a note
of the fact on your Adventure Sheet and cross off the
correct amount of money.) The crowd soon strip the
shop bare, and the keeper shuts up shop — a happy
man.

——————— __—______ sees Pr

206-207

You are once again in the square. If you visit the
tavern, go to 49. If you decide to find a place by the
fire, turn to 375.

206

The Dragonflies carry you for many miles, gradually
sinking lower as they begin to tire. You notice,
thankfully, that the jungle is giving way to country-
side, A few of the insects stop beating their wings
and hang limply by their threads. Those which
remain can only just keep you a short distance
above the ground. Then they too begin to tire and
finally give up. The statue thuds to the ground,
sending you tumbling. You find yourself sitting ona
tough dirt track. The light begins to fade, and you
rest for the night.

The sound of crackling wood wakes you while it is
still dark. A fire glows in the darkness some distance
away, and two dark shapes are silhouetted against
the flames. If you go over to investigate, turn to 114.
H you ignore them and go back to sleep, turn to 393.

207

The falling dust begins to thicken until you can
barely see an arm’s length in front of you. The
powdery mist swirls and billows as it gradually
settles. The ranks of statues that once filled the
chamber have been reduced toa chalky-white pow-
der, through which the bones of an army of men
protrude. The pressure builds once more. Turn to
334.

208-210

208
You look the officer in the eye and tell him why you
are here. He drops his arrogant tone and salutes you
with new-found respect. Turn to 3.

209

Velkos fights well, but none save the greatest war-
riors can defeat three opponents at once. One of the
bandits dodges round behind her and his weapon
slices deeply into her side. She goes down with a
last bubbling call. Her three assailants waste no time
in looting her corpse. You wait till they depart then
approach to take a final look at your erstwhile
companion. Turn to 19.

210

Standing well away from the cliff wall, you lower
yourself on a rope. The drop is dizzying, but you
tear your mind away from the consequences of
falling and concentrate on keeping your footing, A
dark hole looms in the cliff face, and you edge over
towards it. With a kick and a swing you are in the
cave.

Its white dust floor leads downwards, deep into
the cliff. Behind you, the other outlaws pitch into

211-212

the cave. A flutter of many wings from within the
cavern is your first warning. Then a cloud of
whirling, chirping birds emerges. You must react
quickly. If you have the power of Baopo and wish to
use it, turn to 41. Otherwise, you had better stand
still and hope to avoid attack by not threatening the
mghtened birds (turn to 118)

211

You hear the distinctive voice of Babbalha, your old
nursemaid, as she bustles into the room. ‘The little
horror!’ she mumbles under her breath, ‘just look at
‘he state of this place.” You blink a look at her as she
ausies herself at her tidying.

A second voice speaks. ‘Please, Babba — they are
ready for the boy downstairs. Shall I get his drink?’

No, He’s sleeping good enough. We'll let the
priests sort him. I'll be glad to get the wretch off my
hands. Nothing but trouble, that one, since the day
he came into this world.’

‘Poor boy. That’s no way to speak of him, specially
where he’s bound for.’

The servants end their gossiping and leave. You
wait for the key to turn, but instead they walk off:
the absent-minded Babbalha has forgotten to lock
you in, Turn to 271

212
The creature continues to splutter in its piping
voice, and you can’t make up your mind whether to

213-214

look it in the blank eyes of its rider or those of the
horse, which are covered with a silvery sheen. Its
talk means very little to you: rats, meadows and
bright lights seem to be all it cares for. As it speaks,
though, you experience a faint trace of memory.
You have an uneasy feeling about this mutant — it
reminds you of something unpleasant. Will you:

Take it up on its offer to transport

you from the city? Turn to 136
Approach cautiously to find out

more about it? Turn to 397
Attack it and take it by surprise? Turn to 228

213
Two of the men charge you, whirling clubs.

SKILL STAMINA
First SLAVER 6 7
Second SLAVER 7 8

You must fight both the slavers at the same time.
Each will make a separate attack on you each Attack
Round, but you may wound only one of them. If
you defeat the slavers, turn to 160.

214

Wave after wave of Kreehuls sweep out from the
jungle’s depths. Summoning all the magical forces
at your disposal, you heroically repel many hun-
dreds, until eventually your energy wanes. Then
they are upon you, and your end is swift . . .

215-217

215

You keep your wits about you as you follow Velkos.
She heads towards a forest of tall, dark pine trees.
Soon you are basking in their sweet scent. You
pause for rest beside the bole of an ancient tree.
Sounds are muted in the forest, but you can hear a
cdinking. Velkos stiffens. ‘Sounds like trouble,’ she
hisses. ‘Reckon you want to face it?’

If you decide to hide in the branches ofa tree, tum to
134. If you stay where you are and wait to see who is
approaching, turn to 69.

216

You advance into the hilly terrain, keeping a careful
watch about you. The land is harsh and unforgiv-
ing; the cold wind bites into your exposed flesh.
Reaching the summit of a modest rise, you see
banners fluttering in the valley below. The regal
crest makes it obvious that these are the king’s men.
If you march down the hill to meet them, turn to
355. If you prefer to avoid them and continue
onward, turn to 137.

217
The only exit from the chamber is through a huge
pair of double doors. One stands open, but a
smooth, red wall seals the portal. At its base a small
round hole has been cut. As you make your way
across to the doors the chamber shakes, and more
shards of rock fall from the ceiling. You feel pressure
building up and your body aches under the strain

218-219

The pressure eases as you force your way through
the circular opening: the red wall is made of thick
wax, and the hole appears to have been burnt
through. From the other side you can see that the
doors have been sealed, and the wax carved with
writhing symbols of warding. Tum to 156.

218

The final blow sinks deep into the creature’s
flesh, releasing a fierce blast of stale air which all
but knocks you over (deduct 1 point from your
STAMINA). As the gas escapes, the beast shrinks,
leaving a rather pathetic corpse swathed in loose
skin. The stench is sickening, and you leave the
clearing, clutching your mouth and stomach. You
soon recover, however, and find a road leading
away from the forest. Turn to 361.

219

You come down from the mountain and are hailed
by Feior’s army as their champion. The rest happens
as ifina dream. You become King of the Isles, ruling
with an iron fist and undoing all the weakling
changes that have been wrought since the usurpers
deprived your father of his rightful throne. It seems,
at times, that your father speaks to you and lives
once more through your actions. Gradually your
whole being is subverted to the forces of darkness

Bezenvial’s prophecy that his child would rule the
Isles is fulfilled. Black blood flows through your
veins.

220-221

220

Despite your lack of seacraft, you soon pick up the
most important skill - avoiding the boom as it
swings back and forth in the wind. Soon the sails are
trimmed and ready to catch the faint sea-breezes.
You make little progress, however. A dense, cling-
ing mist settles about the boat, limiting your vision
to a few metres. The wind finally drops altogether,
and Velkos takes the opportunity to catch up on
some sleep. You remain awake as look-out. After a
while you hear muffled sounds ahead: a slight
splashing like the gentle slap of cloth against water.
Moments later, a large shape appears out of the
mist. It looks like a huge translucent ball with a dark
shape squirming within it. If you have a sword and
wish to use it against the sphere, turn to 392.
Otherwise, the only weapon available to you is a
rough wooden pole lying on deck. Turn to 127.

221

‘They will break out of the enchantment very soon,’
says Credas. ‘If you aren’t prepared to help me,
then we must flee at once.’ He leads you along
winding tunnels, finally emerging through a hole in
a rotten tree. ‘We must part here. If you reconsider,
and wish to gain the power] offer you, then perform
this task for me: fetch the Sitting Prophet from the
middle of the Zushan Jungle to the south. Other-
wise, may fate smile upon you.’ He hurries off. If
you travel south, turn to 240. If you head for the
nearest settlement, turn to 29.

222-224

222

You are footsore from the walking you have done,
yet nowhere do you find rest and peace. You travel
the land for several days, hearing many reports of a
war that is brewing in the south. Heading in that
direction, you pass fleeing villagers who tell tales of
monstrous creatures roaming the country under the
banner of the son of Bezenvial. Finally you come
upon the smoking remains of a village. You search
cautiously among the ruined buildings until you
find a poor villager tied to a wheel. Near by, an
unidentifiable creature roasts on a spit over a fire.
The peasant looks up at you and gasps out some
words. You bend closer to hear what the man has to
say. ‘Flee! If you value your life, flee!’

There is movement among the buildings near by. If
you wait and free the man, turn to 17. If you flee
from the village at once, turn to 198.

223
Add 12 to the number you rolled and write the result
in the STAMINA box of your Adventure Sheet. Next
roll four dice. If the result is less than or equal to
your STAMINA, turn to 30. If the result is greater
than your STAMINA, turn to 184,

224
The first wave of your attack holds weil. You dis-
mount and follow your men into battle. Soon you
are in the midst of the fray, fighting for your life.
One of Feior’s knights cleaves his way past two

225-226

peasants and stops you. ‘Remember me, fool?’ he
cries, lunging at you with his two-handed sword.
‘It's just youand menow. . .’ You recognize him as
the soldier you found, bound and gagged, on your
travels. His humiliation burns deeply, and he is
keen for vengeance.

FEIOR’S OFFICER

If you win, go to 169.

SKILL 11 STAMINA 13

225
The bandit leader looks at you for a moment, then
understanding dawns on his face. He winks. ‘Lost
your memory, have you? Well, there’s several of us
none too good at recalling our past. Still, you’re one
of us now.’ Turn to 336.

226
Nikko agrees to your terms and arranges to meet
you again in a week’s ime. Turn to 106.

227-229

227
You manage to weaken the beast’s hold by twisting
and punching at its warty talons. As it loses height,
you break free and plunge to the forest below. The
trees’ soft canopy gives way to a dense tangle of
thicker branches. You grasp at them as you plum-
met, until finally you catch hold of a thick vine,
which slows your descent painfully but lacerates
your palms deeply (deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA). Bleeding and shaken, you look for a
way out of this place. Turn to 35.

1
Js . Se er
"¢ of ate A

~~: aw

Your surprise attack enables you to land a blow on
the mutant. Though injured, it is still a formidable
opponent. If you do not have a weapon to fight it
with, you will have to fight it with your sKILL
reduced by 4 points.

MAN-HORSE
MUTANT SKILL 8 STAMINA 11

If you defeat the mutant, turn to 93.

229
Panting with fear, you reach the king’s quarters,
only to find them deserted. The many books that
lined his study are now packed into chests. Tiny

230

gems and trinkets are scattered about carelessly
amid the general upheaval. You hear footsteps com-
ing from behind and you dive into an empty chest.
Crouched inside, you hear two men enter. ‘J am
sure Maior came this way, master.’ Itis Panurge, the
priest,

The second voice speaks —itis your father, ‘We have
Feior. Could we not leave the weakling to Fate? It
would be no great loss, and we have httle time to
save ourselves, let alone look for the wretch.’

‘Your words contain reason, but should you risk
your inheritance on one child alone? I think not. We
must find Maior,’

Deeply shocked by your father’s callous words, you
barely manage to stemacry of anguish. If you reveal
yourself to them, turn to 359. If you remain hidden,
turn to 253.

230
Next morning you set off through the trees. Half an
hour later, you leave the forest and after another
hour's trek up into the hills you find yourself on a
cliffoverlooking a verdant ravine. The bandits begin
to prepare ropes, then lower themselves down the
cliff face while you wait at the top with Velkos. The
minutes drag on, and Velkos suggests you take a
look to see whether there’s any sign of the others.
You peer over the edge of the cliff, and Velkos takes
you by surprise, There is no handhold: you are
tumbling, whirling, screaming for long moments
before hitting the ground at the bottom of the gorge.

231-232

231
Eventually the shooting eases off, and the eerie
silence returns. You stay down and let the current
carry you to safety. The boat bumps to a halt and
you straighten up, expecting to be alone by the river
bank. Instead, you find yourself confronted by six
mud-covered Pygmies, frozen in extravagant battle
postures. Simultaneously, they let out a scream and
break from their trance. Instead of charging you,
each produces a small, tear-shaped pod, which he
hurls into the boat. These burst, releasing a choking
cloud of fine powder. If you have the Silken Mask
and wish to use it, turn to 337. Otherwise, turn to
181.

232
You head off on foot, soon coming upon a rough dirt
track that leads inland. A short way ahead you see
the track enter a wide wood of closely spaced coni-
ters. There is the thudding of hoofs on the earth
behind you, and you dive for cover. Two well-
armed men thunder by, heading into the woods.
From where you hide, you can see where the track

ee

233

leaves the wood. Several minutes after the riders
enter the trees, they have still not emerged. Velkos
is anxious and urges you to skirt the wood with her.
Will you:

Follow Velkos? Turn to 166
Follow the track into the wood? Turn to 14
Sneak among the trees away from

the track? Turn to 317

233

Feior makes his way up to a pointing finger of rock,
high up on the mountain. With a great effort you
find an exposed perch of your own and face him.
‘Only one of us can take up the mantle of our dear
father,’ he taunts, ‘and I was always the stronger.’
He raises his hands in the air and begins to tremble,
so strong are the forces he is conjuring. His face
reddens and a trace of smoke seeps from his robe.
You must prepare a counter-spell now. What will
you say:

Biantai? Turn to 368
Baopo? Turn to 31
Tiaohe? Turn to 98
Shangsuo? Turn to 380

Or, if you'd rather try to dodge his spell, turn to 195.

234-235

234
Iwo bandits climb up into the branches and haul
her down, cursing. As soonas the bandit leader sees
Velkos, he lets out a roar. ‘Breaker of rules! You
dared to journey to Takio?’ Velkos shakes her head
and explains that she has never left the mainland.
The bandit leader turns to you and asks what you
say. If you confirm Velkos’s story, turn to 154. If you
tell how Velkos found you on an island, turn to 369.

235

As you speak the word, an unbearable heat rises up
inside you. Close to choking, you beat the spell out
from your chest. It shoots from your mouth in the
form of a flaming bolt and smashes into the first line
of Kreehuls, sending up a blanket of steam. Unable
to see your attackers, you try again but fail to stop
their advance. They attack, and you perish beneath
their webbed feet. Your adventure ends here.

Se Oo eee

236-237

236

The wind is a wall, and you have just been flung into
it. You see a whirl of blue, white and brown, and
then you are dropping, spinning in the air. Below
you, a tiny boat bobs up and down on the water.
The water rushes up to meet you. You suck in as
much air as your lungs can hold and hope you know
how to swim. You fall into the sea feet first, and the
shock stuns you. You see a dimly lit realm of green,
blue and silver, then your arms start to work, pull-
ing you up. You break the surface and draw in a
deep gulp of air, exhilarated. Turn to 78.

237

You grip the Jade Talisman in the hope that it will
lend you strength. A feeling of tranquillity creeps
over you. If you have a weapon, it falls fom your
grasp. Your opponent takes the opportunity to
land a blow on you (deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA). You must fight the rest of the combat
without the aid of a weapon (reduce your SKILL
temporarily by 4 points). Turn back to the para-
graph you came from.

238

238

After a disagreement, you depose Sevmiroda as
leader of the bandit group. In the next few weeks
you lead them on many lucrative raids. You hear
about the king being deposed and replaced by a new
ruler, Feior. According to the tales, Feior is the son
of Bezenvial, the depraved former ruler of the Isles
who was overthrown fifty years ago by battle and
sorcery. But what do you care about such matters?
All governments are alike, and a bandit’s trade
stops for no man.

One day you capture a man wearing the livery of the
new king. With a sword at his throat he tells you
that King Feior is searching for a bandit leader,
Maior. The name seems familiar, but the man is
carrying little treasure so you slay him anyway.

You are unprepared for the assault when it comes.
Soldiers swarm into the wood, and sorcerous blasts
rip apart any resistance. You fight as never before,
but your foe is more powerful. You die in a blaze of
glory, the last of your outlaw band to see the sweet
light of day.

239-241

239
You leave the wood close to the track and hurry
down to it. Soon afterwards Velkos slips out from
behind a nearby bush and asks you what happened
within the wood. You explain as briefly as you can
while the two of you continue along the track. Turn

to 352.

240
After a day spent travelling, you come to a wide
river. Following its course downstream, you see it
disappear into the fringes of a sprawling jungle.
Looking upstream, you watch it meander off to-
wards a distant line of hills. Neither of the routes
lock promising. If you go upstream, turn to 148. If
you follow the bank towards the jungle, turn to 76.

241
‘What are you doing awake?’ Your old nursemaid
bustles into the room, almost tripping over your
collection of lead soldiers. ‘Look at this mess. I’ve a
good mind to put you across my knee!’ Despite her
stern words, you feel that Babbalha is hiding some
sadness. ‘How you goin’ to enjoy your trip if you’s
fallin’ asleep like a baby?’ The large servant sits by
you and wipes the sleep from your eyes. A young
maidservant enters, carrying a glass of milky liquid.
‘Take this and I'll wake you in good time for your
trip.” She pauses, glancing nervously at the girl,
then continues. ‘Your Father’s a wise man, no one
gets the better of him. He wants the best for you and
Feior. Remember that, my little dear. Sometimes

eee

242

things have to be done that’s hard . . .’ Babbalha
breaks off and ushers the servant girl out of the
room. She turns and whispers to you, “’Bye, my
little one. May luck fall on you like rains from
heaven.’

If you take the drink, turn to 293. Otherwise, turn to
271.

242

You bask in the comforting rays of the mid-day sun;
a light wind brings the welcome tang of sea-salt to
your nostrils. After a while your eyes adjust to the
brilliant light and you gaze in wonderment at your
surroundings. Around you is a scene of spectacular
devastation. The remnants of a magnificent city
stand, charred and distorted. Massive archways are
tiddied with clusters of tiny holes, as if consumed
by ravening worms. Towers are contorted, the
stone melted and warped. Houses are stained and
spattered by a myriad colours, their walls jagged
and jumbled. Mighty gashes scar the earth, filled
with bubbling quagmires which give off noxious
fumes. The air itself seems charged with magical
powers. You are alone.

243-244

You are in a large open square surrounded by the
bizarre wreckage of some diabolical battle. To your
right, facing into the sea-breeze, you can see
battered city ramparts and the arms of mighty
catapults. To your left you can make out the
imposing arch of the city gates. Will you:

Head for the gates? Turn to 39
Investigate the sea wall? Turn to 163
Search among the ruined streets? Turn to 132

243
You allow the merchant to retain his treasured

keepsake, and wave him on. Soon the outlaws are
congratulating you. Sevmiroda, their leader, says:
‘You're a smart fellow. That box was probably
trapped.’ Turn to 161.

244
You sit in the sun for an hour, wondering if this trail
is ever used by anyone except the old man and his
wife. Luckily, another cart comes along, driven by
two stocky farm boys. Enthusiastically they help

)
245-246

you manhandle the idol on to the back of the cart,
and are glad to help you take it to Credas’s cliff-top
cave. Turn to 185.

245
Gain 2 points of Lucx. The Polybleb has been
defeated, but now you are alone among the calci-
nated remains of its victims. Before you continue,
you need some rest, If you have the Shrivelled
Claw, turn to 325, Otherwise, turn to 37.

246

Your spell brings a feeling of peace and well-being
It flows gently towards Feior, still struggling against
the effects of the mutation. The dancing patterns
strike him and the purple glow around him changes
to green. He remains doubled up in pain for some
time, however. It is only as he straightens and
faughs madly that you realize he has been preparing
a disruption spell. You have no time to prepare a
defence. The last thing you hear is Feior’s mocking
voice: ‘You always were a weakling!’

247-248

247

Though your eyelids hang heavy, you steel yourself
to remain awake; you talk with Velkos to take your
mind off your exhaustion. She seems reluctant to
talk about the past, but since you can tell her
nothing of yours, you learn that she has been an
adventurer for some years. She reaches into a pouch
at her belt and draws outa shrivelled claw, tied toa
leather thong. ‘It’s a lucky charm,’ she explains. ‘It’s
from a Chestrap Beast that nearly did for me. Maybe
it'll bring you good luck.’ She passes the charm to
you. You accept it with thanks, and you silently
hope it will bring you more luck than the unfortu-
nate beast it was hacked from. Note it down on your
Adventure Sheet.

‘As land looms ahead of you, you realize how tired
you now are. Deduct 2 points from your STAMINA,
then turn to 45.

248

You rummage for the brooch with your free hand
and prise it open with your teeth. In an instant your
vaporous plaything is spinning above your head.
It sees the danger you are in and leaps to your
defence, crashing into the repulsive monster. How-
ever, your familiar cannot be in two places at once,
and the trickling poison reaches your grip. Your
hands and arms lock rigid. Very soon your whole
Dody is paralysed. The creature reels in its catch,
and prepares to dine. . .

249-251

249
You have chosen a suitable resting place. The pres-
sure builds on your skull and mercifully you black
out. You have returned, no wiser, to the slumber
from which you came. You will not wake again.

250

In the few hours before battle, you share tales with
your men, in the hope that this will quell their
nervousness, but as the dark hordes advance into
position, you realize the inevitability of defeat. The
first charge is led by the young king, and you watch
in horror as itis consumed by the dark masses. The
second wave falters then breaks ranks. A shout goes
up from behind, and you turn to see the hills behind
you lined with more foes. Surrounded and outnum-
bered, your troops are massacred. Your adventure
ends here.

251
Delighted with the chaos it has caused, Izkhao dives
into the bath and circles beneath its surface, turning
the water into a swirling vortex. As it picks up

A

252

speed, the whirlpool throws out its victims, sending
them crashing into walls and timbers. The thunder-
mg cyclone finally explodes, showering you with
foam and debris. Through the din you call out
Izkhao’s name, and reluctantly it returns to the
brooch. Turn to 202.

252
Grabbing Tamroth’s hood, you pull it over his eyes,
kick him into the corner of the carriage, and fling
open the door. You snatch up the map and leap
out, landing heavily (deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA). Thick bushes grow by the roadside, and
you tumble into one of them. By the time the driver
has fought the carriage to a halt, you have made
good your escape. Once again you are on the road,
travelling alone. Turn to 2.

ESTEE OT __e

253-254

he oe _ Your father and his aide begin to search the room.
ne = A M « wen b Just as they near you, a thunderous blast rends the
va air. The windows shatter and the screams and

AS)

shouts of battle flood into the chamber. Hearing the
door slam shut above the din, you peer out of the
chest. The room is empty and you clamber out. You
pick your way through the shards of glass as far as
the door, only to find it locked. Turning back to the
windows, you gaze out on to a scene of terrible
destruction. The city is crumbling under the
onslaught of three magical beings which hover
above it, out of arrow-shot, flinging bolts of vivid
colours which crash into buildings and men alike.
The familiar streets and buildings that played host
to your games and adventures have all been
reduced to charred ruins.

lf you search the room for another exit, turn to 301.
If you climb out on to the ledge and cross to an open
window to your left, turn to 344.

254

Stepping carefully, you advance into the middle of
the chamber. From high above you can hear a
fizzing noise, then silence. On an impulse you
cower back as a globule of liquid drops to the
ground ahead of you. It strikes the crystalline floor
and explodes into riotous colour, blinding you.
Once again you are in darkness. The way ahead is
penlous. If you have a shield to protect yourself,
turn to 321. Otherwise turn to 390.

255-257

255
The monk’s eyes sweep over you, and you feel as if
he can see right inside you. “Your fate is woven
tightly with the material. You are a creature of the
physical world, and you will prevail by seeking a
balance between active and passive. We cannot help
you, for we have transcended the physical.’

With a swirl of stars the two monks fade into thin air
and you are left alone in the monastery. You trudge
back down by the way you came and resume your
quest. Turnto106. —

256

A stone skitters down the slope near you. You sense
movement above you and look up, into the blinding
rays of the sun, You perceive a tiny glint of light: a
sword perhaps, or even a crossbow bolt. You spin
around; you feel sure that many eyes are upon you.
A screech! Lolloping up the slope towards you are
two bald, baboon-like creatures, each with two tails
madly waving. Turn to 42.

257

You return hurriedly to your boat before the other
natives come back. The river begins to widen. The
mists lift and you find yourself in a large clearing,
above which a huge Dragonfly hovers. The river has
degenerated into a shallow swamp which the boat is
unable to navigate. You disembark and wade out
into the darkness. Turn to 366.

258-260

258
You may choose to attack the bandits with your
weapons. If you do and you have the bandit tattoo,
turn to 394; otherwise, turn to 173. Alternatively,
you may call on one of the following powers, if you
have them:

Izkhao Tum to 150

Baopo Turn to 56

Biantai Turn to 190
259

Again and again the Sturramak dives, bombarding
the Prophet with fiery blasts. The idol begins to’
tremble and fine cracks appear on its golden skin.
Then it explodes into a thousand molten pieces,
unable to absorb the magical onslaught any longer.
Credas has made the ultimate sacrifice but has failed
to defeat the beast. The Sturramak greedily devours
the remains of the statue, rekindling its power in the
process. Invigorated, the winged beast turns on
you. If you summon magic against it, turn to 36. If
you try to flee, turn to 327.

260

You dive backwards, your face stung by the heat of
the whirling Fire Sprites (deduct 1 point from your
STAMINA). You hide behind a chunk of rubble and
watch as the blizzard of fire sweeps through the
alley. The Sprites fly into walls and erupt into
cascades of sparks, burning and warping every-
thing they touch. Finally the cloud loses energy and
dissipates. If you now head for the sea walls, turn to
to. If you continue to search among the buildings,
turn to 379.

i a TTWVWNTJT_LLLLLL“______~_______

261-262

261

For several days you wander the countryside. Most
of the inhabitants of this region are peasants,
though, and they avoid you whenever you pass
among them. From a chance conversation with a
merchant in an alehouse you learn of a monastery to
the east, whose monks strive for perfection through
physical discipline. Might not monks fight in a
righteous cause?

The monastery stands high on a hillside, a narrow
track wending a tortuous path up to it. You can see
no sign of life among the rounded buildings. If
vou follow the winding path up to the monastery,
turn to 86. If you climb straight up the side of the
mountain, turn to 274.

262
You scoop up an armful of fabulous wealth,
brushing away a few of the nuts and twigs. Make a
note of the fact that you have jewels worth 3,000
gold pieces in the appropriate box on your Adventure
Sheet. The smoke swirls about you and with rising
panic you realize that you can no longer see the exit
tunnel. If you recognize the word ‘Izkhao’ and can
take advantage of this power, turn to 338. If you
recognize the word ‘Biantai’ and wish to use this
power, turn to 120. Otherwise, you must roll two
dice and compare the result with your SKILL score.
[f you roll less than or equal to your SKILL, turn to
74; if your rollis greater than your SKILL, turn toga.

263-264

263

Your hopes for rest and sanctuary fade as you
wander through the village. The few stone build-
ings still standing are dirty and squalid. Ragged
children chase one another across the square, bran-
dishing wooden swords and screaming obscenities.
The adults are no better: drunken revellers stagger
out of the local tavern, aptly named ‘The Aqua
Vitae’, and what trade there is seems to deal ex-
clusively in weaponry. The locals eye you with deep
suspicion. In the ruins of a cottage, a group of
wretched travellers huddle around a large fire. You
are cold, hungry and exhausted. Will you:

Try to enter the local bar? Turn to 49
Buy something to defend yourself
with? Turn to 164
Settle down with the travellers in the
ruin? Turn to 37§
264

You descend from the mountain with your pris-
oner. The battle is won. Merzei rushes to congratu-
late you, but you can think only of poor Credas,
who gave his life in the battle to defeat Feior. Merzei
begins to supervise the remaining forces, so you
return to the top of the mountain to survey the
battlefield, now that you have finally won.

A shriek rends the air and a huge cloud of inky
blackness rises before you. Two burning globes
hang in it and, staring into them, you know: your
father has returned. He cannot harm the people of

265-266

this land, for the Triurge banished him beyond the
physical realm. But part of him lives on in you, and
through you he may still have his revenge. Will you:

Use one of your magical powers? Turn to 88
Flee? Turn to 15
stand your ground? Turn to 51

265
Your head is swimming, but you still have your
sight as you race between the silent white statues, In
your haste, you send half a dozen toppling and they
smash on the marble floor, scattering their bony
contents. Turn to 113.

266
With an acrobatic flourish that would impress the
most agile of monkeys, you flip across to a neigh-
bouring creeper. Trembling with the exertion, you
watch the repulsive insect reel in the sticky vine.
Thanking your good fortune, you drop safely down
and dart back into the jungle. The way ahead looks
formidable: mile upon mile of dense, unforgiving
jungle. If you press on, turn to 38. If you retrace
vour steps, back to the safety of the boat, turn to171.

267-269

267
‘Now,’ says the bandit leader, “you had better be
honest with me. If you are capable and trustworthy,
I may let you join our band. What is your business,
for I gain no clues from your apparel?’ Will you tell
him you are a:

Merchant? Turn to 345
Sorcerer? Turn to 168
Bandit? Turn to 144

Or, if you wish to tell him that you don’t know, turn
to 388.

268
For a moment Merzei wavers. Then his resolve
returns. ‘I am the future Grand Councillor of these
Isles! I take orders only from the people!’

You will gain no help from this man. You must find
another source of soldiers. Turn to 106.

The little man narrows his eyes at you and puffs out
his pigeon-chest. ‘I am Merzei,’ he cries in a voice
surprisingly firm for one so unprepossessing,

270
‘Defender of the People, Righter of Wrongs, and
future Grand Councillor of these Isles.’

If you talk to the fellow, turn to 4. If you attack him,
turn to 62.

270

You utter the word from your dark past. Intense
pain locks your entrails and a wave of nausea
sweeps through you. With a great effort you
straighten up and force the pain away. The bolt of
summoned energy is expelled from your body and
shoots into the pool, where it combines with the
water and the bathers, forming a swirling mass of
limbs and screams. You watch as the powerful spell
melds the men into a single, complete being.
Warped into a human web of confused limbs and
shuddering skin, this pitiful creature rolls towards
you, flailing its many arms and legs. To escape, you
must fight your way past.

POOL BEAST

You may choose to escape after two Attack Rounds if
vou so wish. If you survive, turn to 202.

SKILL 10 STAMINA 15

271-273

271
As you sit, alone, in your chamber, you catch the
distant sound of drums. If you prise open the heavy
shutters, turn to 318. If you venture out into the
hallway, turn to 151.

272
As you deal the final blow to your mirror-image,
there is a blinding flash of light, and a shaft of agony
shoots through you. A moment later, your sight
returns; there is no sign of your opponent, but the
wicker object still lies at your feet. Will you:

Examine it? Turn to 309
Leave it be and head for the sea

wall? Turn to 10
Leave the object but continue to

search through the buildings near

by? Turn to 379

273
These vicious-looking eels form into a single seeth-
ing mass of destruction. Acting quickly, you un-
ravel the whistle and spin it furiously above your
head. A high-pitched whining sound fills the air,
and the creatures stop their thrashing. Calmness
returns. Turn to 294.

274-275

274
It is a rough climb (deduct 1 point from your
STAMINA) but you finally fight your way to the top.
Turn to 43.

275

One of the bandits drunkenly describes his experi-
ences in the jungles of the south. He pulls out a
delicate silken mask from his pouch and puts it on
his head. The other bandits cackle at his bizarre
appearance, but he explains that it was useful to
keep the insects from biting. The mask is passed
around for inspection, reaching you as the fellow
launches into an improbable description of a large,
bluish-green fruit which, he claims, can sustain a
man in the jungle for weeks on end. The drunken
outlaws seem to have forgotten about the mask.
You may keep it if you wish (note it down on your
Adventure Sheet). Finally you bed down on the soft
forest floor, in readiness for the next day’s raid.
Turn to 89.

276-278
276

Tendriis of purple magic stream out from Feior's
hands, but you are prepared. You stand calmly,
concentrating on the faint patterns in the air around
vou. When the spell strikes you, it plays gently up
and down your body, changing colour from purple
toa mild green.

Now is your chance to act. The vast power Feior has
been wielding has singed his finery, and the rock
around him bears the scars of magical force. He
looks tired. Which spell are you going to cast at him:

Shangsuo? Turn to 203

Baopo? Turn to 46

Tiaohe? Turn to 353

Biantai? Turn to 122
277

As the creature regards you expectantly, a word
surfaces In your memory.

‘Izkhao,’ you say. ‘Obey me.’

‘I o-b-b-b-bey,’ replies the smirking homunculus.
With a mocking bow, he disappears back into the
brooch. Turn back to the paragraph you came from
when you decided to open the brooch.

278

Adopting a rough country accent, you humbly ex-
plain to the commander that he has mistaken you
for someone else. He eyes you closely for a while,
then shakes his head and returns to his seat. As the

279-280

carriage pulls out, you see Tamroth staring intently
at you through the window. You turn back on to the
road once more, confused and alone. Turn to 2.

279

Travelling among the villages of this region you
hear tell of a rabble-rouser who has been stirring the
peasants to action. After a day spent searching, you
find the village in which Merzei is staying. True to
form, he is standing in the middle of the street,
haranguing the local populace. ‘Throw off the yoke
of oppression!” he shouts. ‘Resist those who exploit
you! Join with me and bring the Council to power!’

When he has finished his speech, you approach him
and tell him that you need men to fight against
Feior. If you have at any time owned a Spiked Club
or a Jewelled Dagger, turn to 54. If you never had
one of those, but do have a Scroll, turn to 162. If you
have none of these articles, turn to 291.

280
You face the blazing Elemental and compose your-
self for action. If you know the codeword “Biantai’
and wish to make use of this power, turn to 27. If

281-282

you know the codeword ‘Izkhao’ and wish to make
use of this power, turn to 376. If you charge the
creature, turn to 125. If you circle and dodge, wait-
ing for an opportunity, turn to 105.

281

The shimmering scales that cover your shoulder
tingle as you crouch to examine the solidified mud.
The dense vapour which hangs above its surface has
a Strangely pleasant smell and draws you closer.
Involuntarily, you take a deep breath, filling your
lungs with the gas . . . a face from your dim past
flashes in your mind for an instant. Its lips mouth a
single word: ‘Shangsuo.’ The power that Locked the
mud is now at your command. Note it down and
turn to 128.

282

The lone figure is toppled by a blow from the flying
monster, sending them plummeting into the chasm
below.

Hands suddenly grip you firmly by the shoulders
and drag you, screaming, out of the chamber.
‘Quiet now, child,’ whispers Panurge, the King’s
Priest, ‘you are coming with me.’ He mumbles a
wotd and touches your temple . . . Turn to 389.

ee ___________ ES __~_____________________

283-284

283
As you near the flames, their heat seems to dimin-
ish. You bound the last few steps, exulted by the
feeling of deliverance that sweeps through you.
Then you are engulfed by the sweetly caressing
tendrils of magical fire. Your ill-omened journey
ends here.

Credas walks towards the Prophetand holds out his
hands to touch it. “You must use your power now
For the goad of the Isles, I must become one with
this idol.” Nausea washes over you as the power
builds within. You hardly dare watch as Credas’s
form melts and fuses with the bronze idol. When
you have finished, you stagger back to rest,

The mouth of the Prophet opens, and Credas
speaks, his voice resonating with a metallic twang
‘Now you must unite an army to meet Feior in battle
and destroy his forces. Without soldiers he has no
real power, I will rouse the Kreehuls to action: for
too long they have been hunted and slaughtered by
man. Go now, and may your fate be kind, for the
sake of the Isles.’ If you have a Bejewelled Box, turn
to 377. Otherwise, turn to 119.

285

285

You dive for the cave entrance, narrowly avoiding
the net which spins after you. Down the corridor
Velkos follows hard on the heels of the creatures —
the name ‘Cressents’ leaps to mind -and as the light
dims you lose sight of her. Where the tunnel
branches in two directions you pause to catch your
breath. The men have not followed you down the
tunnel, but as you inhale deeply you catch the whiff
of a sweet-scented smoke drifting after you. Two
more tunnels lie ahead. The one to the left slopes
up, while the right-hand path is downward. If you
go left, turn to 32. If you go right, turn to 372.

286-287

286

You surface, spluttering and gasping. Gradually
your eyes become accustomed to the steam rising
off the bubbling surface of the water. You are float-
ing ina huge communal bath, the villagers’ place of
entertainment. Bobbing around its sides are its pat-
rons, guzzling cups of ale served from a network of
pipes that hang over the pool. These characters
must come from every corner of the land, for no two
look alike. Your sudden arrival went unnoticed, and
the bathers are talking and quaffing heartily. You
relax and lie back, appreciating the water’s invigor-
ating qualities (restore 2 points of STAMINA). If you
swim over to your neighbour and talk, turn to 178. If
you take a drink from the ale-pipes, turn to 348.

287
The merchant turns up his nose at you and climbs
back into his palanquin.

You continue on your way. The peasants you meet
avoid you, but you don’t encounier any hostility.
On the third day you see many men approaching
As they draw nearer you see that many of them
aren’t men at all, but foul creatures, some ghastly
pale of feature, others warty and covered with
bristles. All, men and beast alike, are armoured and
carrying Vicious weapons.

If you abandon the Sitting Prophet and flee, turn to
350. If you stand your ground, turn to 20.

288-289

288

Waiting for a spout to subside, you tie the rope
round you, secure the other end, and lower yourself
down the shaft. Descending to the roiling sea be-
low, you begin to tread water: the cave ceiling is
barely an arm’s length above you, and at the far end
of the cave you can make out the open sea upon
which a small boat is bobbing, in and out of view.
You strike out for the entrance, carried up and down
by the swirling tide. Now you can see an anxious
face peering over the boat's side. She waves franti-
cally and you hear a shout but cannot make out the
words over the din of the sea-cave. If you swim out
to the boat, turn to 72. If you return and climb back
up the chute, turn to 371.

289
With your maniacal friend fighting by your side,
you stand a chance of driving these creatures back
Three of their leaders bear down on you, and you
must fight them to the death. .

SKILL STAMINA

First KREEHUL 6 8
Second KREEHUL 5 8
Third KREEHUL 7 7

Fight the Kreehuls one at a time. If you win, turn
to 33.

290-291

290

You wait with an outlaw called Ewenchu, while the
others lower themselves down the cliff face: the
only known entrance to the sorcerer’s lair is through
a cave mouth halfway down the sheer rock face. The
minutes drag on, and Ewenchu annoys you by his
habit of noisily scratching his armpits. You begin to
worry at what may have befallen your comrades;
then you notice a flock of birds rising from the
ground behind a large rock, a short distance down
the slope. You wander over to have a look, and find
a well-hidden hole leading sharply downwards. If
you slither down it to investigate, turn to 16. If you
return to Ewenchu and wait for the bandits’ return,
turn to 63.

291

Merzei looks you up and down. ‘Flee, O lackey of
the forces of tyranny!’ Behind him, several
desperate-looking peasants heft improvised pole-
arms. There’s nothing to be gained by fighting
these folk, so you leave the village as quickly as you
can. Turn to 106.

292-294

292
No sooner have you lain down upon the deck than
you fall into a deep sleep. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 152. If you are Unlucky, turn to 328.

293
You sip your nurse’s comforting drink then slide
gently into a restful sleep. Turn to 389.

294
As you drift down the river, contemplating what
lies ahead, a ftne mist begins to spill out from the
jungle; it hangs above the water and cuts your field
of vision to only a few metres. The river narrows,
forks then narrows again, until you find yourself in
a remote stretch of slow-moving water. Strange
plants crowd in on either side, and the gnarled
limbs of trees glide in and out of view, The tempera-

295-297

ture has risen dramatically and the moist, insect-
laden air clogs your throat. If you would rather
continue on land, turn to 153. If not, turn to 131,

295
Your foot snags in a crater and you tumble forward,
grazing your elbows badly. But behind you a daz-
zling flash of colour bursts from the place where you
tripped. Relieved, you scramble the remaining dis-
tance to the safety of the far door arch. Turn to 50.

296
“You must return the Sitting Prophet to its worship-
pers at once!’ he wails, shaking his head in dismay.
‘Go now, and hope that the damage done can be
repaired.’ With a final shake of his head he dis-
appears back into his cave. If you obediently begin
the long journey back with the Prophet, turn to 362.

If you abandon it where it is, turn to 222.

297

Much to the amazement of the soldiers, you pro-
duce the plans you stole from the envoy: they show
Feior’s plans of attack, including a number of clever
ambushes. Together with the other officers, you
scour them for a weakness. There is one: if you can
reach the village’s central tower and hold it, Feior’s
men will be forced out into the open, where your
archers and cavalry will be able to bear down on
them. It is your only hope, and you must try it. If
you used your powers on Credas, turn to 386.
Otherwise, turn to 73.

298-299

298

A scene of devastation awaits you when you emerge
from the burrows. Flaming gouts leap from the
tentacles of a fiery creature - an Elemental of some
kind — incinerating all they touch. You flee, your
breath rasping hard in your chest. Velkos is just
ahead of you when a bolt strikes her in the back; in
an instant nothing 1s left of her but ash. Just as you
think you have evaded danger, a man leaps up
before you: he is one of the slave traders, and he
grins evilly as he advances on you, wielding a black
metal blade.

SLAVE TRADER SKILL7 STAMINA6

If you incur more than 6 points of damage from the
trader and are still alive, turn to 381. If you defeat
the trader, turn to 139.

299
You pause for thought, then give him your auth-
oritative decision.

‘Since when has your horse commanded troops?’ he
snarls. ‘Impostor! You are not Feior!’ He whips outa

. 300-301

pair of daggers from his robe and lunges for your
throat. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 135.
if you are Unlucky, turn to 9.

300
You clamber into the boat and prepare to set out. As
you cast off, the bottom of your craft disintegrates.
Sinking rapidly, you notice the shards of wood are
riddled with thousands of tiny holes. Something in
the jungle has feasted at your expense. You are
stranded, with no means of escape, doomed to
roam the jungle until death finds you and sends you
once more into the blackness from which you
emerged...

301

You try in vain to find an alternative exit. A large
pile of books has been piled against one wall, and
you knock them over, revealing a framed picture of
a gaudily dressed man. You move closer and peer at
his enigmatic features; his lips are curled into a wry
smile, and his mischievous-looking eyes stare back
at you intently. You turn away and start towards the
door.

‘Children like you should be tucked up in bed!’

You spin around and stare in amazement at the
picture. The man’s expression has changed, and his
hood now sits on his head. If you back away from
the picture and climb on to the window-ledge, turn
to 344. [f you lift the picture to see whetheranyone is
hiding behind it, turn to 133.

—— 8  —OO™=—eeEee— EEE

302-304

302
Merzei waits in vain for people to come forward,
and some of the drinkers begin to chuckle. ‘What
did J expect from scoundrels?’ he shouts. ‘Courage?
Well, you’ve had your chance to repent. Now pre-
pare to pay for your crimes.’ He reaches into his
pockets and pulls out two shrivelled figures, which
he tosses into the water. They land with a splash
and float there harmlessly. By now everyone is
laughing — all except Merzei. He takes a small bottle
from a breast pocket and flings it into the poot: it
sends up a shower of sparks as it sinks, and the
water begins to bubble and churn furiously, throw-
ing up vivid colours. Caught up in the ferment, the
tiny figures begin to expand rapidly in size, until
they reach their full height of over two metres. Just
past them, you can see six burly men rushing for
Merzei, who stands, arms akimbo and with a
confident smile on his face. Turn to 149.

y Ase

a
wea

ee

393
You dive through the opening in a single fluid
motion. As you roll down a short flight of steps, a
gout of dust is forced out of the hole. There is a
distant roar of collapsing masonry, then the hang-
ing cloud of dust is sucked violently back into the
depths, tugging at your clothes as it retreats. You
have escaped. Turn to 242.

394
© ABR As you charge towards the village and into the heart
a of battle, the flying Sturramak spots your fresh

305 ~307

assault. It swoops towards you, releasing a fiery
bolt of energy which smashes into the peasants,
instantly disintegrating those it hits. The beast
nears, and you watch in horror as it releases hun-
dreds of squirming, leech-hke creatures from its
underbelly. You are caught in the shower of death.
Your adventure ends here,

395
At your approach the three bandits run off; Velkos
thanks you for your timely intervention. Together,
you follow the trail down from the mountains into
lusher lowlands. Turn to 215.

306
A low humming fills the air but from your prone
position you can see nothing. The drone grows
louder until it is directly above you. Feeling a light
touch on your back, you twist around to look up.

High above you hovers an immense Dragonfly. Its
diaphanous wings beat furiously, and from its mag-
nificently coloured abdomen trails a thick silken
cord. Arrows fly past, missing it by inches, but the
beast refuses to depart. If you seize the creature’s
thread before it flies away, turn to 108. If you would
rather stay in the shelter of the boat, turn to 231.

307
A premonition of danger deters you from drinking
too much. The others jeer at you for what they see as
faint-heartedness, but you are adamant; a sixth
sense warns you to rely on unknown instincts you

308-309

have never considered before. While they drink
themselves into a jolly stupor, discussing tomor-
row’s raid on a sorcerer’s lair, you sit upright, alert
to any possible threat. Sevmiroda scorns you for
your abstinence and tells you that you’ll lose the
glory of being in the vanguard of the raid. If you
bear the bandit tattoo, turn to 230. Otherwise, turn
to 8g.

308

Tremors wrack your body; you are tired, and a
second Lock spell requires much energy. The pul-
salting globe you create this time is less bright;
Feior’s spell has reached you by the time you un-
leash it at him. He is still bathed in a purple glow,
and as your body contorts and mutates you see your
spell evaporate harmlessly against his warding. Be-
fore you can control the mutations which convulse
you, your mind is wrenched from your body. The
thing which quivers and gurgles on the mountain-
top is no longer you.

309

You roll it away from the wall and brush off the
accumulated dust. It seems quite light, so you pick it
up to examine it more closely. No sooner have you
raised it than it twitches wildly. You fumble for a
moment, then throw it to the ground. As it lands,
there is a hollow pop and the wicker snaps open. A
dense cloud explodes from it, a cloud of fire and
wings and dark, furry bodies. Roll two dice. If the
result is less than or equal to your SKILL, turn to 260.
If the result is greater than your SKILL, turn to 177.

—————————— ee asasaeeS——_— ie

310-311

310
The figure that steps from the carriage is dressed in
military robes of deepest vermilion. He turns to his
driver and snaps, ‘Fool! Why do you wake me? Do
you think I would wish to speak to this filthy
peasant?’ The driver cowers away from his master,
stammering and pointing at you. The soldier turns
to you and shouts, ‘Be off before I take my sword to
yo — He gasps and bows. ‘Forgive me, Your High-
ness. . . Commander Tamroth at your service. . . I
had no idea that you had left Traole so soon. Were
you captured? Where are your guardsmen?’

You must think quickly, If you attempt to bluff him,
turn to 81. If you explain that he has mistaken you
for someone else, turn to 278.

311
The clash of armies is like a wave breaking against a
rocky shore. Your force is outnumbered, four to
one, and you quickly find yourself engulfed in
desperate hand-to-hand fighting with men-at-
arms. Even with the powers at your disposal, you
cannot prevail against so many adversaries.
Bloodied and tattered, Nikko slashes his way
through the ranks which surround you. ‘You’ve
betrayed us!” he bellows, ‘But you'll pay for your
treachery!’ He charges at you, lunging with his
double-handed sword and pinning you through the
vitals. Before your life seeps away, you bring down
a jarring blow on his skull. He dies before you.

=~ ’ " -
one “ ~ es de oot he ~~. —

312~313

312
A dark form rears up ahead of you, and you flinch.
Then Velkos’s voice hisses urgently at you to follow
her, as she has found a possible way out of the
burrows. If you tell her about the gems you have
found, turn to 82. If you keep quiet about them, turn
to 192.

313

You speak the word. A prickly heat rises up through
your skin. Pressure begins to build in your lungs,
and you tremble as the power builds. The bathers
watch you grasp at your throat, your face red-
dening. In desperation you thump your chest with
both fists. The blows finally dislodge a flaming bolt
from within you. The flames fly from your mouth
towards the bathers, who instinctively duck under
the surface of the water. You collapse, exhausted,
and watch the fireball extinguish itself in the pool.
The angry patrons surface and swarm out of the
water towards you. Unable to lift your arms in
defence, you can only cry out as their blows rain
down on you. Your adventure ends here.

314-315

314

Before the Sturramak can strike you with its fiery
breath you leap on the horse of an unfortunate
cavalryman. You spur it past a company of archers,
yelling a warning. The Sturramak turns its attention
to them, just as you spot a lone rider fleeing up the
mountainside. Something about him is familiar and
draws you to him: it is your brother, Feior, fleeing
from battle. Roll three dice. If the result is less than
or equal to your STAMINA, turn to 233. If the result
is greater than your STAMINA, turn to 129.

315

The morbid glyphs on your tomb exert a strange
fascination. Without thinking, you begin to trace
the rough contours of these symbols. With the
numbness gone, you pick up the faintest tremor:
there is meaning and energy in the glyphs, but
despite their familiarity you cannot unlock these
forces. Reluctantly you draw your hand away from
the stone face and turn around, You meet the
reverent gazes of a hundred robed figures. The
chamber is filled with a silent retinue. At their head
a hawk-nosed man fixes you with a penetrating
stare. He opens his mouth to speak.
316

You stagger as the chamber shakes. Chips of rock
rain down and you cower from them, shielding
your face, There is a popping in your ears and a dull
ache builds in your temples. When you look up, you
are alone once more. The chamber shakes again and
at your feet a crack in the marble begins to widen

You dodge fist-sized chunks of stone as they crash
to the ground. Pressure grips you; breathing be-
comes hard and your heart beats wildly. If you
jump back into your sarcophagus, turn to 249. If
you flee the chamber, turn to 367.

316

Unfortunately, the vine you leap for cannot support
your weight. You plummet to the jungle floor,
landing heavily (deduct 3 points from your sTAM-
INA). However, the bruises you now carry are bear-
able when you think of the fate you have escaped
from. Looking back up into the leafy canopy, you
watch the loathsome creature move off, trailing its
sticky tendnls. If you limp on through the forbid-
ding jungle, turn to 38. If you retrace your steps to
the boat, turn to 171.

317-318

oi

You slip between the trees and strain your ears for
any sound from up ahead. After a few minutes you
hear the thud of heavy boots on the soft, pine-
needle-covered ground. You conceal yourself be-
hind a large tree trunk and watch as a heavily
armoured man staggers past, clutching his helmet
in both hands. The heim seems to be badly dented
and, judging by the way the man keeps bumping
into trees, he can’t see very well. If you run out and
attack him, turn to 21. If you wait till he has passed,
and then continue into the wood, turn to 189,

318
You prise the bar free and kick the shutters open
Dawn is breaking and beyond the harbour walls you
see the lights from a multitude of boats; they are all
magnificently decorated with colourful flags. High
above them, burning like fireflies in the mist, are
three glowing spheres, Splashes of coloured light
spark from them as they move towards the city,
skimming across the water. Delighted, you stand
transfixed. The first bolt of colour approaches the
city wall, and it is then you notice that a great many

of your father’s soldiers have collected along the
ramparts. They too stand silent, fascinated by the

+
-~

319-321

display. The bolt smashes into the wall, obliterating
it completely and sending a shock-wave that blows
you backwards into the bedroom. Terrified, you
close the shutters and climb back into bed, hoping
the screams and shouts will go away. If you try to
block out the din with your pillow and go to sleep,
turn to 389. If you go looking for help or comfort,
turn tO 151.

319
You snatch the box from the merchant's quivering
hands. It is intricately bejewelled and is opened by a
tiny clasp, which you unfasten with ease. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 20%. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 23

320

Merzei takes a step back and looks at you as if you
are mad. Then he steps forward until his pasty face
is close to yours. ‘Never, corrupter of the righteous!”
he hisses. Strong hands grip you round the throat.
You flail helplessly but can do nothing to prevent
the life being choked out of you.

321

Hefting the white warrior’s shield above your head,
you weave your way across the room to the opening
on the other side. Metres from safety, you are
knocked flat when a globule explodes on your
shield. You fling it aside and watch it being con-
sumed by flames of many colours. Cross the shield
off your Equipment List. Choking on the sharp

bm _____—__— ___, __ ~—_— _9 _____-

322-323

smoke, you reach the safety of the door arch. Roll
one die, add 6, and enter the result in the LUCK box
of your Adventure Sheet. Then turn to 50.

322

You manage to weaken the beast’s hold by twisting
and punching its warty talons. As it loses height,
you break free and plunge into the forest below. The
trees’ soft canopy gives way to a dense tangle of
thick branches, which you grasp at vainly as you
plummet to your death. Your adventure ends here.

323

Horribly injured, the mighty creature mses into the
air with a majestic swish of its feathered wings. You
take advantage of the moment to flee. Then you
spot a lone rider galloping up the mountainside.
Something about him is familiar, drawing you to
him. It is your brother, Feior, fleeing from battle.
Roll three dice. If the result is less than or equal to
your STAMINA, turn to 233. If the result is greater
than your STAMINA, turn to 129.

324-325

324

You walk back up the bank, slip into the water, and
push out for the opposite side. The current is strong
and carries you swiftly down towards the boat. You
grab its side and begin to haul yourself up into the
craft. Sprawled across the boards are the horrific
remains of its owner, Barely able to set eyes on the
bloody mess, you kick the corpse into the river.
Hurriedly, you push out and steer downriver,
struggling against the cross-currents and floating
vegetation.

A faint rushing sound comes from ahead, and you
brace yourself for rapids. Sure enough, you see a
torrent of water rising up in the distance. As you
approach, you can make out the writhing forms of
thousands of thick, grey eels. If you have the Chang
whistle and wish to use it, turn to 273. Otherwise,
turn to 199.

325

As you rest, you decide to check through your
possessions. You are surprised to discover a brooch
in a small pocket of your robe. It is carved with
glyphs which remind you of your dream-like em-
ergence from your tomb. There is a little clasp on the
brooch. If you open it now, note down the number
‘152’ and turn to 343. Otherwise, note down the
number ‘343’ next to the brooch on your Adventure
Sheet. Atany time, provided you are not involved in
combat, you may open the brooch. Note down the
number of the paragraph you are at, then turn to
343. Now turn to 37.

326

326
Credas traces a symbol in the air, and moments
later you are aware of the symbol hanging before
your eyes. You feel the blood pumping through
your arteries, the sinews tensing and relaxing, your
mind’s unconscious orders to your body speeding
their way along conduits too narrow to imagine.
You sense Credas’s command to the bandits, and
feel a part of it. Silently they turn and make their
way out of Credas’s retreat.

You shake your head. You are back to normal once
more.

Credas speaks. ‘If I am to help you, you must
perform a task for me. Fetch the Sitting Prophet
from the midst of the Zushan Jungle, to the south of
here.’ He passes you a small jar of sharp-smelling
orange syrup. ‘This will sustain you in times of
need.’ Then he leads you down a long tunnel and
out by a hidden exit under a rotting tree stump. He
bids you an abrupt farewell and disappears back
down the tunnel, leaving you wondering if this was
all a dream. If you make your way south, turn to
240. If you abandon your task and head for the
nearest settlement, turn to 2g.

327-339

327
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 314. If you
are Unlucky, turn to 1112.

328
You wake up, much refreshed, to the welcome sight
of cliffs ahead. Velkos makes preparations to land.
Turn to 45.

329
Itis along trudge. Finally you make your weary way
up the hill to Credas’s cavernous retreat. The Sitting
Prophet is still where you left it and Credas is
waiting for you. ‘I was mistaken,’ he says. ‘Events
move in the world. Malignant forces return to play
the eternal game.’ Turn to 176.

330
The fighter puts up little resistance as you untie his
bonds. Once free, he removes the scroll from his
mouth and curses. ‘How in the name of Quel
Damoth and all her sisters did that wretch get the
better of me!’ He stamps out of the gorse, ignoring
the pain the thistles must be causing him, and picks
up his clothes. ‘Eat my words, indeed! Hah!’ He

331

scowls at you and shouts, ‘Would you laugh at me,
clown?’ He makes as if to strike you but then hesi-
tates, finally deciding to leave you alone. You watch
as he limps off towards the village, muttering. You
follow him. Turn to 263.

331

As his eyes alight on the spiked club you are car-
rying, the little man grins, ‘Excellent. You have
dealt with the other. The cause grows ever stronger,
though | confess I do not recall seeing you at any of
my rallies. You had better have one of my tracts.’ He
rumunages in a bulging leather sack lying to one side
and produces a scroll, which he tosses to you. Then
he holds his fist in the air. ‘Down with the Tyrant!
Up with the Council!’ he declaims and hurries off.

You examine the scroll he has given you, only to
find that you are unable to read the squiggles which
cover it. Pausing only to kick the brigand as he
groans his way back to consciousness, you make
your way out of the wood. Turn to 239.

a ee

332-333

332

Your brother’s reserves of power are no match for
yours. Without even having to prepare a spell, a
silvery missile shoots from your outstretched hand.
As it flies towards Feior, it expands until it re-
sembles a huge silver flower, which envelops its
victim. Feior screams weakly as the shining folds
compress him gently, slowly squeezing the life out
of him. Smaller and smaller the fatal parcel be-
comes, until all that is left is a small silvery coin. You
pick it up: on one side, Feior’s screaming face is
embossed; on the other, he smiles confidently, a
crown upon his head. You smile wryly. If you flip
the coin nonchalantly, turn to 479. If you simply
climb back down, turn to 219.

333
You open the clasp on the brooch and call your

plaything’s name. A vaporous being shoots out and
circles above you, calling out, ‘Maior,’ as it darts
about. You point at the advancing men and order it
to attack. With a gleeful yelp, Izkhao thunders into
your assailants, causing them to topple back into the
pool with a splash. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 251. If you are Unlucky, turn to §3.

334-335

334
Beyond the wax seal you find yourself in darkness.

The pain in your temples recedes, and you pause
briefly to catch your breath. Tentatively you edge
forward, arms outstretched. Just as your eyes begin
to accustom themselves, a brilliant flare of colour
bursts from the blackness. It dies away, but in the
fading light you can see that the rough floor is
pockmarked. An acrid smell reaches your nostrils as
the glow dissipates. If you press on into the dark-
ness, turn to 254. If you wait by the entrance, turn
to 18.

335
You climb high into the hills, to a point where you

can see the king’s troops advancing into battle. They
are consumed by the tide of dark figures that spill
into the valley beneath you. Not a single man of Poo
Ta’s forces emerges from the horde; Feior’s army is
totally victorious. The dark child has returned to
claim his inheritance. You survive for a few days,
camped out in the hills, until his men track you
down and slaughter you. Your adventure ends
here.

336-337

336

You accompany the outlaws to the stump of a huge
tree, within which they hide the sacks of treasure
they have captured. Then they decide to visit the
nearby village. You have nearly reached the build-
ings when you are overtaken by a fat fellow,
bouncing up and down on the back of a donkey. The
outlaws nod at him, and nudge you meaningfully.
It’s clear they want you to tackle and rob him. If you
sidle up to the merchant and tell him to hand over
his valuables, turn to 95. If you refuse to rob him,
turn to 12.

337
Tears stream down your face, but you cover your

nose and mouth before the powder can do its worst.
Amazed at your resilience against their bombs, the
savages panic. Only the two strongest stay and
fight. They are upon you instantly.

SKILL STAMINA
First JUNGLE

MAN 5 7
Second JUNGLE
MAN 6 6

You must fight them both at the same time. Each
round you must choose which one you will attack,
and roll dice as normal for yourself and your oppo-
nent. You should also roll at the same time against
the other savage. Whereas he will wound you if his
Attack Strength is the greater, you will not cause

338-339

him any damage if your Attack Strength is greater ~
you will merely parry his blow. If you win, turn to

338

You flip open your brooch and call the name of
Izkhao. The bald-headed magical creature emerges
and grins at you wickedly, Then he tugs at your
hand, pulling you through the choking smoke,
straight towards the dark tunnel exit. Test your Luck.
If you are Lucky, turn to 115. If you are Unlucky,
turn to gg.

339
‘Such a pity,’ says Feior, ‘for I really can’t let you
wander around if you aren’t prepared to take sides
with me.’ He clicks his fingers, and a squad of dour
warriors in bjack lacquered armour approach,

You steel yourself to go down fighting and stand,
ready, on the cart beside the Sitting Prophet. The
soldiers approach, brandishing spiked axes, Sud-
denly you realize that you can no longer see your
brother. You whirl around: he stands behind you,
his face red, his eyes aglow. He beats his chest and a
gout of energy bursts forth. You are incinerated
instantly.

340

340

The wind is a wall, and you have just been flung into
it. You see a whirl of blue, white and brown, and
then you are dropping, spinning and twisting wild-
ly in the air, The water rushes up towards you. Its
surtace feels as hard as granite as you hitit, and pain
shoots through your back. Deduct 1 point from your
STAMINA. Then you are thrashing around wildly
under the water. You gulp in water, but break the
surface before it reaches your lungs. Gasping and
spluttering, you start to swim towards the coast.
Turn to 78.

341-342

341
No amount of chipping and scraping will serve to

free them. A noxious smell suddenly pervades the
air. You spin around to face a small, hooded man,
dressed in a filthy robe. The two peasants are ter-
tified into silence and shake visibly. The air round
you is redolent of the stench of decay. As you start
towards the repulsive figure, he raises his gnarled
stick. Turn to 128.

342
The monk’s voice is gentle as he asks you how he

may help you, You explain that a great evil is
scourging the land, and beg his assistance,

He sucks in his breath and confers briefly with his
companion. ‘A mighty trial faces you. We may not
leave this monastery, but we can be of assistance to
you and help you on your path towards perfection.’
He gestures with his hand, and a small jade plaque
appears init. This he passes to you. ‘Ifever you face
the trial of combat, this talisman will give you the
power to prevail against what is base and human.’

343

Note down the Jade Talisman on your Adventure
Sheet, along with the number ‘237’. If at any time
when you are in combat you wish to use it, make a
note of the number of the paragraph you are at, then
turn to 237,

While the Talisman may be of some use, you still
need soldiers to fight in the looming battle. You
trudge down from the monastery by the way you
came, Turn to 106.

343
You prise open the brooch and find yourself staring

at a grinning face: it looks like that of a malevolent
baby and, as you watch, it winks. There is a crackle,
a sharp tang of ozone. . . and the grinning face sits
before you, attached to a small, smooth body. Test
your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 277. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 6.

344

344
You inch your way across the ledge and climb in

through the neighbouring window. The room is
tiny, and the dark tapestries that drape its walls add
to its air of mystery. The only door is locked, and
you slump against it, exhausted and afraid. In the
middle of the room sits a small table, covered by a
large velvet sheet, and this you pull away, revealing
a small glass sphere which has been set into the
centre of the table. A dingy green glow radiates
from it, and you gaze deep intoit. At first your view
is obscured by swirling mists; then they clear to
teveal a lone figure standing ona pinnacle of rock. A
thick black cloud floats in front of the figure, form-
ing and re-forming, first into a crude face, then into
a twisting vortex. As you watch, thoughts of your
nightmare rush back into your head. Both figures
are familiar, and your mind struggles to name them.
Then, from behind the figure, a winged beast shoots
into view. The dragon-like creature heads straight
for the figure, spitting fire. They seem unaware of
the danger and, as the view shifts, you finally
glimpse their features. They are your own! The
beast is nearly upon them. You must decide. Will
you:

Shout a warning to the figure? Turn to 373
Wait to see what happens? Turn to 282
Smash the globe? Turn to 400
345-347

345
‘Ha!’ cries the leader, ‘Then you won’t mind parting

with your wares!’ You are seized from behind anda
sword is held at your throat as the bandits take all
your gear. Cross every item off your Equipment
List. The outlaws tie your hands, blindfold you, and
lead you some distance before abandoning you. It
takes you several hours to free yourself. Turn to 19.

346
Far off in the distance, beyond a small village in the

middle of the valley, you espy Feior’s army. It is
awesome in size, making your forces look pitifully
inadequate. Your fellow officers are shocked into
silence, and the troops verge on panic. Then you
observe another body of men advancing towards
you from the hills in the east. Taking up a spyglass,
you see an army of peasants, brandishing impro-
vised weapons, and at its head the familiar figure of
Merzei. He calls his people to a halt and waves to
you, smiling, With these extra troops, hope returns
and you resume planning your attack. If you have
the Battleplans, turn to 297. Otherwise, turn to 100

347
You return the white warrior’s gesture and cour-

teously ask him his name. But there is no response;
the figure remains motionless, poised in mid-bow.
Despite the growing pain in your temples, you ate
bathed in a feeling of security, an awareness that
you have known and respected this man in the past
.. But he is lost to you now. Nausea rises up

348-349

through your gorge and takes you by the ears. You
hurry away from the warrior, through the ranks of
his army, to the far end of the chamber. Turn to 113.

348
You take hold of a pipe and nod to the barman to

pump your drink through. A bolt of ale gushes into
your mouth, where it stays for barely a moment.
The inside of your mouth is on fire, and you quickly
spit the liquid back out into the bath. The bitter taste
of the ale refuses to leave you and you vow never to
touch the stuff again.

Suddenly, the tavern door bursts open, Turn to 52.

349
For several days you scour the land, hunting out the

traces of bandits. You pet information from
peasants by posing as a government official; but
each time you think you have cornered a band they
melt away into the countryside. Finally you hit
upon the plan of posing as a merchant. Travelling
down a well-worn path among closely spaced trees,
you are accosted by a gang of brigands, who de-
mand your money, You fling aside your disguise,
and try to persuade them to join your cause, No
sooner have they seen your face, however, than
they take to their heels between the trees.

Recruiting bandits seems to be a dead end. On your
travels through the villages you have heard the
rumour that the king has sent an army to face Feior
in battle, though itis said that the royal forces are far

Fl
359-352

outnumbered by the mercenaries, foreigners and
creatures of ill-omen that have flocked to Feior’s
banner, Events are moving on apace, while you
have achieved nothing. You should now choose an
option that you have not already chosen. Will you:

Look for mercenaries to recruit? Turn to 191
Try to find Merzei (if you recognize

the name)? Turn to 279
Try to find the king’s army? Turn to 216
Scour the countryside for some

other possibility? Turn to 261

a5
You leap from the cart and set off, back the way you
came. Although there are horsemen among their
ranks, none pursue you. Marching rapidly, you
soon lose sight of the army. Turn to 29.

351
You step gingerly up to the object and reach out to
touch it. If you bear multicoloured scales, turn to
194. Otherwise, turn to 24

352

As you walk, the land rises around you, and the
foliage thins till only hardy grasses cling to the dark
rock, Velkos begins to talk of a trove of gemstones
that is said to be hidden in a cavern among these
hills. A dark opening gapes at you from beside a
rock, off to one side. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 256. If you are Unlucky, turn to 130.

353-355

353
The patterns dance delicately in the air about you,

and calmness washes over you, You are hardly
aware of Feior until he unleashes a furious bolt
of energy, which streaks towards you, singeing
the very air as it passes. You meet your fate with
serenity. The bolt destroys you instantly.

354
You sprint down the slope, bolts flashing around

you. You see several others reduced to ashes. A
searing flame shoots through your side and you
crash to the ground. Deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA. When you recover consciousness there
is no one about, so you hurry down the hillside.
Turn to 67.

355
You are soon stopped by sentries, who send for an

officer to interrogate you. A proud warrior in beauti-
fully lacquered armour and a plumed helmet strides
arrogantly up to you and demands to know your
business. If you are at the head of Merzei’s peasant
army, turn to 155. Otherwise, turn to 208.

Aas

356-358

356
Sevmiroda listens with surprising sympathy. ‘We
can't afford to have someone with us who’s lost
their nerve,’ he says. ‘Don’t think you can shop us
to the authorities or dip your fingers into our trea-
sure trove — we'll be moving our store soon.’ If you
have a haversack and a greatsword, the outlaws
take these from you (cross them off your Equipment
List). Then they head into town, so you think it
prudent to travel in the opposite direction. Turn to

19.

357
Add 12 to the number you rolled and write the result

in the STAMINA box of your Adventure Sheet. Then
turn to 30.

358

The beast carries you high above the forest towards
a large clearing; it hovers above a wide pit which has
been dug at its centre. The crater measures at least
twenty metres in circumference; a huge mound of
rubbish lies within it: animal bones, furniture, cart-
wheels, grain sacks, rotting food and other inde-
scribable substances are all mixed together in this
noxious stew. The smell is overpowering; flies mass
in thick clouds above it. The creature releases its
gtip, and you drop, feet first, into the stinking
morass. You emerge from the pit gasping, trying to
beat off dozens of purple leeches that cling to your
clothes. Deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA and
turn to 85.

359-361

359
Panurge grasps your arm tightly and leads you back

up the stairs. Ignoring your cries, he mumbles a
word to himself. He waves his free hand over your
face. . . Turn to 389.

360

You back away, across the chamber, keeping your
eyes on the silver-furred creature. It seems just as
wary of you, and cowers behind the body. The other
sarcophagus is covered with the same strange
hieroglyphs as those which adorn your tomb. It too
has lost its lid, and shattered fragments litter its
interior. Though empty, the tomb exudes the same
warmth as your own. Another wave of panic floods
over you. If you make your way out of the chamber
without delay, turn to 217. If you go to take a closer
look at the corpse, turn to 142.

361
The road begins to widen. Up ahead, smoke rises
from a small settlement. After a few minutes’ walk,
you come across a discarded bundle of clothing
which lies strewn across the road. The garments are
cut from supple leather, stained a deep black, and

es ee

362-263

inset with strange emblems which tease your mem-
ory. If you search about for their owner, turn to 141
Otherwise, you continue east towards the village.
Turn to 263.

362

You have to find another cart to help transport the
statue back to the jungle, but you don’t relish the
river journey. As the statue trundles onits way, you
start to wonder how on earth you are going to return
it to the Kreehuls. It was dangerous enough bring-
ing it here in the first place. Is this Credas a mad-
man? Why did you ever trust him in the first place,
and go on his foolish mission?

The first two days’ trek takes you down among the
rice paddies. While you are pausing for rest, a
palanquin borne by sweating youths pulls up near
by. Out steps a gaudily dressed man, plainly a
merchant. ‘That item is very marketable, honoured
traveller,’ he says. ‘I will offer you the sum of 1,000
gold pieces for it.”

If you accept the man’s offer, turn to 80. If you
refuse, turn to 287.

363
You follow the path as it weaves to and fro among
the trees. After a little while there is a crashing
sound from up ahead. An armoured figure, its
hands clutched to its head, races round the corner.
You have the presence of mind to dodge to one side
and stick out your leg. The fellow crashes to the

364~365

ground with a roar, but quickly leaps to his feet and
starts to swing wildly with a spiked club. You see
that his helmet has been crushed down over his
eyes, so he can’t see. He is still dangerous, though.

BLINDED BANDIT
If you defeat the bandit, turn to 387.

SKILL 4 STAMINA 8

364

A miracle! Just when you needed one last surge of
strength, a battalion of heavily armoured men
bursts from the southern forest and charges to-
wards you. As they near, you recognize them as the
mercenaries you hired earlier. Shouting for joy, you
wave at them as they approach, gesturing them
towards the weakest line of your defence. Swords
raised, they thunder towards you. They do not
stop, however, and you fall beneath their pounding
hoofs. Bloodied and broken, you look up to see the
traitorous soldiers cutting down your own troops,
Blackness descends. Your adventure ends here.

365
You manage to restrain yourself from looking up
into the tree where Velkos hides, and face the bandit
leader. Turn to 267,

366-367

366

A few metres ahead of you, sittin g amid the vines
and creepers, you confront an imposing statue. The
idol’s hands are clasped above its head, and its face
wears an expression of deep serenity. Judging from
its size, you estimate it to be the work of many hands.
As you approach it, a thousand pairs of emerald
eyes flick open around you, peppering the dark-
ness. From out of the shadows and beneath the
water emerge strange, semi-human figures. Dis-
tended eyes sit proud of their flat faces, and spindly
limbs support their large, warty heads. You near the
statue. The massed Kreehuls move closer and emit
deafening croaks from their fleshy throat-sacs. Will
you:

Examine the statue? Turn to 13

Seek aid from Izkhao? Turn to 66

Name Biantai? Turn to 96

Call Tiaohe? Turn to 193

Summon Shangsuo? Turn to 124

Call Baopo? Turn to 235
367

The terrible pressure on your head threatens to
engulf you as you force your way out of the cham-
ber, barely able to keep your eyes open. You pass
through a small opening and the pressure eases, but
you stagger on. You crash into something hard and
clutch your knee in pain. Your sight returns in time
tor you to see a smooth, white, human figure top-
pling over, It hits the ground and cracks open like a

368-369

hollow eggshell. A skull rolls out of itand away into
the chamber. You look up. Turn to 156.

368

Your stomach churns with the effort of the spell; a
purplish glow surrounds you, the only outward
sign of your attempt to warp the fabric of the uni-
verse. You stretch out your arms to Feior, and the
purple cloud oozes sluggishly towards him, taking
on the shapes of fearful, half-glimpsed creatures as
it goes.

Feior looses his blast when the cloud you have
generated has covered half the distance between
you. A bolt of sizzling energy slices through the
purple glow as if it wasn’t there and streaks towards
you. You have no time to prepare a second defence.

369
Velkos shoots you a glance of pure hatred. ‘He lies!’
she shouts. ‘I demand the right of satisfaction!’

several outlaws grin at this, and the leader turns to
you. “Will you fight Velkos to decide the truth of the
matter?’ he asks. If you will, turn to 109. If you
refuse, turn to 84.

370-372

379
You hand over the money and Nikko asks you when
and where his men will be needed. If you tell him
to accompany you straight away, turn to 68. If
you wish to do more recruiting, and arrange to
rendezvous with him in a week’s time, turn to 106.

371
Realizing the danger you are in, you kick back

towards the rope, Before you can reach it, you are
borne up by a swell of water. It dashes you forward
and up the chute. You are tossed up through the
manhole amid a spout of water, landing wet, bat-
tered and bedraggled — but safe, Lose 1 point from
your STAMINA and turn to 97.

372
You dare not mun, lest you bump into something in

the dim light. You hurry along the passageway,
then stop abruptly as a dark form rears up in front of
you

‘Quick, the Thaaza smoke is near!’ Velkas’s voice
urges you on, She grabs your arm and drags you
down another tunnel. A screeching noise echoes
down the tunnels, and after a while you pass a
side-tunnel from which issue pitiful, half-human
screams. As you pause at the tunnel mouth, Velkos
grabs you roughly. ‘It’s just some Cressent young,’
she hisses. ‘Leave them for the traders.’

If you follow Velkos, turn to 298. If you go down the
side-tunnel, turn to 8

373-375

373
You scream a warning into the globe. Your voice

seems to echo back at you from its polished surface
and reverberates in the small room, causing your
ears to ring painfully.

Hands grip you firmly and drag you, screaming,

out of the chamber. ‘Quiet now, child,’ whispers

Panurge, the King’s Priest, ‘you are coming with

me.’ He mumbles a word and touches your temple
Turn to 389.

374
You unravel the whistle’s string and try vainly to

whirl it around from your lying position. Finding
this impossible, you sit up and manage to sound the
note. An arrow thuds into your arm, forcing you
back down (deduct 3 points from your STAMINA).
Turn to 231.

375
Despite your strange appearance, the travellers

honour the code of the road and offer you a place by
the fire and some food. As you settle down and
warm your feet, you hear talk of the war that is
raging throughout the island. You learn of the
young king and his fight against an ancient menace
from across the sea. These hardy folk have learnt
enough to keep well away from the fighting and
laugh at the villagers’ attempts to defend them-
selves. Recover up to 4 points of STAMINA (remem-
ber, it may not exceed its Initial value) and turn to

197.

376-378

376

Izkhao appears out of thin air — but, upon seeing the
creature, his features crease with consternation. He
launches himself into the fray with a keening moan.
Seconds later, there is a blinding flash of light and
your ears are stinging asif froma sound so loud you
couldn't hear it, The Polybleb is gone — but so is
Izkhao, In your hand is a pool of silvery liquid — all
that remains of the brooch. Cross the brooch off
your Adventure Sheet and turn to 245.

377
You set out into the countryside, wondering how

you should go about your task. The air feels remark-
ably humid, and you break into a sweat. Pausing for
rest, you find that you are shaking all over. The
shaking worsens and is followed by dizziness and
nausea. You retch, then clutch at your chest, where
a throbbing pain is spreading.

You die alone, in unfamiliar countryside, from an
unknown disease. Your shallow grave is unmarked,

378

You merrily knock back several horns full of the
foaming rice beer. After the first couple it begins to
taste almost palatable. The bandits discuss tomor-
tow’s raid, which is to be on a sorcerer, a hermit
whose retreat is said to contain many precious
magical artifacts. Do you bear a bandit tattoo? If you
do, turn to 196. If not, turn to 275.

379-380

379
You are close to the seaward-facing part of the city

when you catch sight of a sudden spout of water
among the ruins. As you make your way over toit, it
spurts again, showering you with salty spray. The
source of the geyser is man-made: a circular stone-
clad hole at the bottom of which you can hear the
echoing roar of the sea. By the side of the manhole
lies a metal grating, to which a tightly woven rope is
tied. Wet clothing is strewn about the place.

You deduce that the water spouts at regular in-
tervals as rogue waves pound into a sea cave below
and force their way up. You peer into the
thundering depths.

‘Rats, rats, always the last to leave a sinking ship!’
The voice is behind you. You turn. A magnificent
horse rears up, a multicoloured rider looking down
at you from its back. ‘But there’s plenty of room here
to play —- why leave?’ it whines in shifting tones. But
the rider remains silent, for the words come from
the mouth of the beast. With a parting swish of its
silvery tail, it canters away. Will you:

Chase after it? Turn to 97
Climb down the shaft, using the

rope for secunty? Turn to 288
Make for the sea walls? Turn to 10

380
A gentle heat pricks the tips of your fingers, and a
scintillating ball forms there. Feior looses a gout

381

of cascading flame, which streaks towards you.
Almost casually, you gesture with a finger, and
your spell fhes to meet it. They collide, and the
disruption solidifies, then is blown away in the
wind like streamers of fine rice paper. Feior
screeches in anguish then raises his arms once
more. Even at this distance, you can see his face
contorting with the effort, and two pulsating globes
of purple begin to form around his hands. Which
spell do you use in this clash:

Baopo? Turn to 57

Tiaohe? Turn to 276

Biantai? Turn to 140

Shangsuo? Turn to 308
381

A leaden weight settles about your body. The
trader's blade carried contact poison! Lose 1 point
from your SKILL. You collapse, unconscious.

When you reawaken, all your joints ache. Your
wrists are tied with thick leather thongs, and all
your possessions have been taken. You are cram-
med into a wooden cage among the tumbledown
buildings of some squalid town. Staring down at
you is a sallow-faced man wearing a gaudy hat;
obviously he is the slave master. If you demand to
be released, turn to 167. If you wait till nightfall
before attempting to escape, turn to 58.

A Ea y
RR Wi,

wee
Pe Vi
”

hy

oe
\}
Nyy

iP

Ws

382-383

382

The forest opens out into a clearing. A shallow pit,
more than twenty metres in circumference, has
been dug atits centre. A huge mound of rubbish lies
here: animal bones, furniture, cartwheels, grain
sacks, rotting food and other indescribable sub-
stances are mixed all together in this noxious brew.
The smellis overpowering; thick clouds of flies mass
above it. Hovering high above the pit is an enor-
mous beast. Its stomach is so bloated that it re-
sembles an inflated balloon, while its head and
claws appear to be those of a ridiculously warped
fowl. Its thick, blubbery folds of skin quiver madly
as it pounds with its wings in order to stay aloft. It
swoops to attack. You have no option but to fight.

SHAEL-BEAST SKILL6 STAMINA 14

Don’t forget, if you do not have your sword you
must fight with your sKILL temporarily reduced by
4 points. If you defeat the creature, turn to 218.

383

Merzei sends out his most trusted lieutenants to
rouse the peasants in other villages. You both spend
the next few days travelling up and down the
countryside, your ranks swelling at every rally.
Every moment of your waking hours is spent
organizing, equipping and planning. Finally, after
weeks of labour, the army is assembled and ready to
march. Turn to 216.

384-386

384
The woman frowns suspiciously and casts a search-
ing gaze over you. If you have a greatsword, a
haversack or a silvery wound, turn to 103. If not,
turn to 172.

385
One of the bandits manages to evade your strike
and wrap his arms round your neck. You feel his
mutated flesh begin to fuse with your own, and
then the other bandits are upon you, tearing and
rending and chopping. Your adventure is over.

386

As you charge towards the village and into the heart
of battle, an enormous, dragon-like beast takes to
the air behind Feior’s lines. It swoops towards you,
releasing a fiery bolt of energy which smashes into
your troops, instantly disintegrating those it hits.
The beast nears, and you watch in horror as it
releases hundreds of squirming, leech-like crea-
tures from its underbelly on to the people below,
You turn your gaze towards the village’s river and
spy the golden figure of the Sitting Prophet as he
wades into battle, leading a mass of screeching
Kreehuls. Credas has returned with his force! The
swamp beings spill out on to the banks and attack
Feior’s men, while their idol waits for the Sturramak
to near him. The two magical beings lock in fierce
combat, gradually working their way towards the
tower. If you have the Soggy Scroll turn to 224.
Otherwise, turn to 11.

387-388

. 387
Your opponent crumples and falls. He is still alive,
but some inner compulsion prevents you from
finishing him off. You stoop and pick up his spiked
club, to keep it out of harm’s way. If you hurry out of
the woods now, turn to 239. If you continue to walk
arnong the trees, turn to 180.

388

The bandit leader’s brow creases. ‘What kind of
person doesn’t know what they are?’ he asks. He
looks you up and down. If you have a silvery
wound, turn to 123. Otherwise you can tell him that
you came from an isle over the sea (turn to 168) or
simply explain that you have lost your memory
(turn to 225).

389

389

Slowly you regain consciousness. As the haze lifts,
chanted words drift into your head, growing gradu-
ally louder as sight returns. You stare up at a high
stone ceiling, which is lit by the flames of a thousand
candles. With a great effort you raise your head and
meet the reverential gazes of a hundred robed
figures. At their head stands your father and his
hawk-nosed priest, Panurge. They stare back at you
impassively and continue their slow chant. The
numbness refuses to leave your limbs and forces
your head down on to the pillow. Unable to cry out,
you watch as the figures melt into one, and their
strange intonation eases you back to sleep . . .

If you have a splinter, turn to qo. If your ears ring,
turn to 71. Otherwise, turn to 116.

‘
,

399-394

390
You bound out into the blackness, trying not to
stumble on the rough, cratered floor. Roll one die,

note down the result and turn to 170.

391
You produce the jar and notice that the Dragonfly
you saw earlier is still hovering high above you. As
you remove the lid, you see it fly closer, drawn by
the scent of the sticky orange paste inside. An idea
blossoms in your mind. Acting quickly, you smear

ee

391

the bald head of the Prophet with the sweet goo and
wait. The Kreehuls again begin to advance, sensing
that their sacred idol is in danger. Then suddenly,
amid a din of beating wings, the air is filled with
Dragonflies. Greedily they bear down on the rich
paste, jostling for position and ignoring you com-
pletely. As they eat, you gather the ends of their
silken threads and tie them securely to the prophet’s
arms. Gorged on their meal, the insects lift off, only
to find the idol attached to them. The Kreehuls
croak their battle-cry and attack, sending the
Dragonflies into a frenzy. The statue shifts. Again it
moves, until finally it works free from its muddy
seat. You grab the Sitting Prophet’s arm as it is
carried up and hang on, high above the sea of angry
Kreehuls. As you rise slowly out of the clearing and
above the green canopy, you can hear their dis-
tressed croaking until it is drowned out by the
beating of wings. Turn to 206.

392-394

392
The ball bumps into the side of the ship, and
another rolls up behind it. You leap across, slashing
wildly at the ball, and you feel your blade cutting
into a pliant membrane. There is a gust of fetid
air, and the ball deflates. From it leaps a form of
whirling madness.

MADDENED
CRIMINAL SKILL7 STAMINA5

If you slay the criminal, turn to 34.

393
You are roughly woken up by the slobbering tongue

of a fly-ridden buffalo.

‘Better get that thing out of the way,’ a voice mum-
bles from behind the beast. A haggard old fellow of
many years peers vaguely down at you. Picking
yourself up from the ground, you see that the man
and his pudgy wife are sitting on top of a large
wagon. If you look them in the eye and order them
to help you transport the Sitting Prophet, turn to 48.
If you wait to see what they are going to do, turn to

143-

394
You are seized from behind and a sword is held at

your throat. ‘What shall we do with him?’ asks
Sevmiroda. A woman’s voice replies: ‘Kill him!’ You
don’t even have time to protest. Your adventure
ends here.

Ig re

395-396

395
Three men advance cautiously towards you; having

seen their comrades defeated, they are taking no
chances. Just before they come within striking
range, though, they back off. Too late, you realize
they were simply giving others time to load their
crossbows. The impact of three boits flings you
to the ground, where you writhe briefly before
expiring.

396

Izkhao appears at once. As soonas he sees Feior, his
normally jovial face becomes serious. He shoots
through the air, grasps your opponent by the heel
and drags him back to you, dumping him in an
untidy heap at your feet. Feior has finally conquered
the Mutation spell, but the effort has left him
drained. He is no longer a threat to you; he looks up
at you with eyes that you know are just like yours. If
you finish him off, turn to 21g. If you spare him,
turn to 264.

397-398

While the creature babbles, you edge towards it and
stretch out your hands. As soon as they touch its
flesh, a tingle runs through your fingers, You realize
that you can sense the magic which caused the
creature’s state, And, more, you can understand
that magic. You have acquired the power of Muta-
tion and should write this down on your Adventure
Sheet, together with the code word: Biantai.
Whenever this code word is given as an option, you
will know that you can use your power of Mutation.

You are concentrating so hard on your new knowl-
edge that you hardly notice the mutant creature shy
away in fright and gallop off. Now you are left with
little choice but to head towards the sea. Turn to175.

398
You have no chance to act. As soonas you move, the

bandits overwhelm you and bring their swords
down upon your helpless body. Your adventure
ends here.

nn ___ es. _______a_—_.

399-400

399
The jungle is thick, and hacking your way through

countless vines drains your strength (deduct 2
points from your STAMINA). You brush aside a
thick creeper but find that it sticks to your arm. As
you reach out to free it, the vine shoots upwards,
taking you with it. By the time you can work your
arm free, you are too high to let go. You look up and
follow the trail of the creeper to its source ~ the
multiple mouths of a bloated Hac-quel-rat. The
beast releases a viscous blob from its jaws, which
trickles down the vine towards you. Will you:

Try to leap across to a nearby

creeper? Turn to 104
Summon a word from your
memory? Turn to 5
Call on Izkhao? Turn to 248
400

You grab the edge of the table and heave it over on
end, sending the globe crashing to the floor, As it
explodes, a fragment of glass embeds itself in your
cheek, As you try to pluck it free, a pair of hands
grips you firmly by the shoulders and drags you,
screaming, out of the chamber. ‘Quiet now, child,’
whispers Panurge, the King’s Priest. ‘You are com-
ing with me.’ He mumbles a word and touches your
temple . . . Turn to 389.

THE RULES

Skill, Stamina and Luck

On your Adventure Sheet there are boxes for you
to record your SKILL, STAMINA and Luck. For
reasons that will be explained below, these will
change constantly during the adventure. You must
keep an accurate record of these scores, and for this
reason you are advised either to write smail in the
boxes or to keep an eraser handy, But never rub out
your Initial scores. Although you may be awarded
additional sxILL, STAMINA and LuCx points m the
course of your adventure, these totals may never
exceed your Initial scores, except on very rare occa-
sions and then you will be informed of the fact ina
particular paragraph.

Your SKILL score reflects your swordsmanship and
general fighting expertise; the higher, the better,
Your STAMINA score reflects your general constitu-
tion, your will to survive, your determination and
overall fitness; the higher your STAMINA score, the
longer you will be able to survive. If your STAMINA
score drops to zero, stop reading, close the book and
then start again from the beginning. Your Luck
score indicates how naturally lucky a person you
are. Luck— and magic~ are facts of life in the fantasy
kingdom you are about to explore.

Combat

You will often come across paragraphs in the book
in which you are instructed to fight a creature of
some sort. An option to flee may be given, but if not
~ or if you choose to attack the creature anyway -
you must resolve the battle as described below.

First record your opponent’s sKILL and STAMINA
scores in the first empty Monster Encounter box on
your Adventure Sheet. The scores for each potential
adversary are given every time you have an encoun-
ter which may end in combat. The sequence for
combat is then:

1. Roll two dice for your opponent. Add its
SKILL score. This total is the opponent's Attack
Strength.

2. Rolltwo dice for yourself. Add the number rolled

to your current SKILL score. This total is your
Attack Strength.

3. If your Attack Strength is higher than that of your

opponent, you have wounded it: proceed to step
4. If your opponent's Attack Strength is higher
than yours, it has wounded you: proceed to step
5. If both Attack Strength totals are the same, you
have avoided each other's blows —start the next
Attack Round from step 1, above.

4. You have wounded the creature, so subtract

2 points from its STAMINA score. (You may use
your Luck here to inflict additional damage — see
below.)

5. The creature has wounded you, so subtract 2
points from your own STAMINA score. (Again,
you may use LucKat this stage — see below.)

6. Make the appropriate adjustments either to the
opponent's or to your own STAMINA Score (and
to your LUCK score if you used LUCK - see
below).

7. Begin the next Attack Round by repeating steps
1-6, This sequence continues until the STAMINA
score of either you or your adversary has been
reduced to zero (death),

Escaping

In some paragraphs you will be given the option of
running away from a battle, should things be going
badly for you. However, if you do run away, your
opponent automatically inflicts one wound on you
(deduct 2 points from your STAMINA) as you flee —
such is the price of cowardice. (Note that you may
use LUCK to minimize this wound in the normal
way — see below.) You may escape only if that
option is specifically given to you in the relevant
paragraph.

Fighting More Than One Opponent

If you come across more than one potential adver-
sary in an encounter, there are two possible ways of
fighting them. Sometimes a paragraph will tell you
to fight opponents one at a time. In this case you

conduct the fight as usual, going through steps 1-7
against each opponent in turn.

More often you will have to fight all opponents at
the same time. At the beginning of each Combat
Round, decide which opponent you will be attack-
ing. Then conduct the fight against that opponent as
normal (following steps 1-7, above). Then follow
the same steps against the next opponent. How-
ever, this time you may not wound the second or
later opponent. If your Attack Strength is higher,
this simply means that you have parried your
adversary’s blow.

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either in
battle or when you find yourself in a situation in
which you could be either Lucky or Unlucky (on
such occasions, you are invited to Test your Luck in
the relevant paragraph), you have to call on your
LUCK to make the outcome more favourable. But
beware! Using Lucx is a risky business, and if you
are unlucky, the results could be disastrous.

The procedure for Testing your Luck is as follows: roll
two dice. If the number rolled is less than or equal to
your current LUCK score, you have been Lucky and
the result will go in your favour. If the number
rolled is higher than your current LUCK score, you
have been Unlucky and you will be penalized.

Each time you Test your Luck, you must subtract
1 point from your current LUCK score. You will soon

come to realize that, the more you rely on your
LUCK, the more risky the outcome will be.

Using Luck in Battles

In certain paragraphs you will be told to Test your
Luck and you will then discover the consequences of
being Lucky or Unlucky. However, you always
have the option of using your Luck in battle, either
to inflict a more serious wound on an opponent you
have just wounded or to reduce the effects of a
wound an opponent has just inflicted on you.

If you have just won an Attack Round, you may Test
your Luck, as described above, If you are Lucky, you
have inflicted a severe wound on your opponent
and may subtract 2 extra points from the creature’s
STAMINA score. However, if you are Unlucky, the
wound was a mere graze and you must restore
1 point to its STAMINA (i.e. instead of inflicting the
normal 2 points of damage, you have now scored
only 1).

If you have just lost an Attack Round and been
wounded, you may Test your Luck to try to lessen the
wound. If you are Lucky, you have managed to
avoid the full impact of the blow. Restore 1 point to
your STAMINA (so that, instead of doing 2 points of
damage, it has done only 1). If you are Unlucky, you
have had to take a more seriousblow. Deduct 1 extra
point from your STAMINA.

Remember: you must always subtract 1 point from
your LUCK score every time you Test your Luck.

Restoring Skill, Stamina and Luck

Skill

Your SKILL score will not change much during your
adventure. Occasionally, a paragraph may give the
instruction to increase or decrease your SKILL
score. A special weapon may also increase your
SKILL; but remember that only one weapon can be
used ata time! You cannot claim two sKILL bonuses
for carrying two magic swords

Stamina and Provisions

Your STAMINA Score will change frequently during
your adventure, as you fight monsters and under-
take arduous tasks. As you near your goal, your
STAMINA level may drop to a dangerously low level
and battles may be especially risky, so be careful!

In the course of the adventure, you may acquire
Provisions. You may rest and eat at any time except
when engaged in battle. Eating a meal restores up to
4 STAMINA points. When you eat a meal, you may
add up to 4 points to your STAMINA score and you
have to deduct one of your Provisions, A separate
Provisions Remaining box is provided on the Adven-
ture Sheet for this purpose. Remember that you have
a long way to go, so use your Provisions wisely!
Remember also that your STAMINA score may
never exceed its Initial value.

Luck

Additions to your LUCK score are awarded during
the adventure when you have been particularly
lucky; details of occasions when this occurs are
given in the relevant paragraphs. Remember: as
with STAMINA, your LUCK score may never exceed
its Initial value.

Equipment

You start your adventure with no equipment, but
you will probably acquire items during your travels.
Keep a careful note of any articles you pick up.

Also in Puffin

Steve Jackson’s
SORCERY!

1: THE SHAMUTANTI HILLS

Your search for the legendary Crown of Kings takes you to
the Shamutanti Hills. Alive with evil creatures, lawless
wanderers and bloodthirsty monsters, the land is nddled
with tricks and traps waiting for the unwary traveller,
Will you be able to cross the hills safely and proceed to
the second part of the adventure — or will you perish in
the attempt?

2: KHARE - CITYPORT OF TRAPS

As a warrior relying on force of arms, or a wizard trained
in magic, you must brave the terror of a city built to trap
the unwary. You will need all your wits about you to sur-
vive the unimaginable horrors ahead and to make sense
of the clues which may lead to your success — or to your
doom!

3: THE SEVEN SERPENTS

Seven deadly and magical serpents speed ahead of you to
warn the evil Archmage of your coming, Will you be able
to catch them before they get there?

4: THE CROWN OF KINGS

At the end of your long trek, you face the unknown ter-
rors of the Mampang Fortress. Hidden mside the keep is
the Crown of Kings — the ultimate goal of the Sorcery!
epic. But beware! For if you have not defeated the Seven
Serpents, your arrival has been anticipated .

Complete with all the magical spells you will need,
each book can be played either on its own or as part
of the whole epic.

FIGHTING FANTASY
Steve Jackson

The world of Fighting Fantasy, peopled by Orcs, dragons,
zombies and vampires, has captured the imagination of
millions of readers world-wide. Thrilling adventures of
sword and sorcery come to life in the Fighting Fantasy
Gamebooks, where the reader is the hero, dicing with
death and demons in search of villains, treasure or
freedom

Now YOU can create your own Fighting Fantasy adven-
tures and send your friends off on dangerous missions! In
this clearly written handbook, Steve Jackson has put
together everything you need to become a successful
GamesMaster, There are hints on devising challenging
combats, monsters to use, tricks and tactics, as well as
two mini-adventures complete with GamesMaster’s notes
for you to start with. The ideal introduction to the fast-
growing world of role-playing games, and literally count-
less adventures

OUT OF THE PIT
Fighting Fantasy Monsters
Steve Jackson & lan Livingstone

From the darkest comers, from the deepest pools and
from the dungeons thought only to exist in nightmares
come the Fighting Fantasy monsters - the downfall of
Many a brave warrior, Two hundred and fifty of these
loathsome creatures from the wild and dangerous worlds
of Fighting Fantasy are collected here — some are old
adversaries, many you have yet to meet — each of them
described in minute detail. An indispensable guide for
Fighting Fantasy adventurers!

Advanced Fighting Fantasy

DUNGEONEER
Marc Gascoigne and Pete Tamlyn

Now you and your friends can create your own fantasy
movies! Imagine that you are the director and your friends
are the cast of heroes, Will you send them to battle with the
evil wizard or recover the Dragons’ hoard? The choice is
yours, and Dungeoneer makes the exciting world of fantasy
role-playing accessible in a thoroughly user-friendly manner

BLACKSAND!
Marc Gascoigne and Pete Tamlyn

Sprawling like the corpse of some giant creature, Port Black-
sand is a festering den of pirates and brigands. Unforeseen
dangers lurk around every street corner and in every dark
alleyway, Devious plots and crimes are hatched in every tav-
em. Thieves and assassins slip through the shadows, Ancient
mysteries lurk in the cellars and sewers. But the infamous
City of Thieves is also home to excitement and adventure
beyond compare!

The second volume in the Advanced Fighting Fantasy series
which started with Dungeoneer.

