”

FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS

Over 13 million copies sold worldwide!

ue ont
Awer mh
|e tew meas benl)
vaAW wha

7 "78014

|

ISBN 0-14-034137-4

UST

:
a
e
= |
ca
=
?
Ee
CO
s
S
fu

SNOLSONIATINVI
GNV NOSMOVIFAALIS

se“ JACKSON AND
/ LIVINGSTONE —

SRESEMT

PUFFIN BOOKS

THE KEEP OF THE LICH-LORD

Bloodrise Keep has fallen to a deadly foe. The safety of the
Arrowhead Islands is threatened once more by the forces of
Evil! After two centuries of peace the dark necromancer,
Lord Mortis of Balthor, has returned from the grave to
rekindle the flames of war. In league with the Chaos pirates
of Blood Island, and commanding legions of foul undead
warriors, he threatens to sweep the Varadian Alliance into
the sea

YOU area mercenary, battle hardened and cunning, a man
with a mission. You will need all your skills if you are to
penetrate Bloodrise Keep and destroy the threat to the
Alliance

All you need is two dice, a pencil and an eraser to embark on
this thoroughly engrossing adventure, which is complete
with its own elaborate combat system and a score sheet to
record your progress,

Many dangers lie ahead and your success is by no means
certain. Powerful adversaries are ranged against you, and
it's up to YOU to decide which route to follow, which
dangers to risk and which foes to fight!
Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks

1 THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP
MOUNTAIN
2 THE CITADEL OF CHAOS
3 THE FOREST OF DOOM
4 STARSHIP TRAVELLER
5 CITY OF THIEVES
6 DEATHTRAP DUNGEON
7 ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING
8 SCORPION SWAMP
9 CAVERNS OF THE SNOW WITCH ,
10 HOUSE OF HELL
TL, TALISMAN OF DEATH
12, SPACE ASSASSIN
13, FREEWAY FIGHTER
14 TEMPLE OF TERROR
15, THE RINGS OF KETHER
16, SEAS OF BLOOD
17 APPOINTMENT WITH F.E. A R.
18 REBEL PLANET
19 DEMONS OF THE DEEP
20, SWORD OF THE SAMURAT
21, TRIAL OF CHAMPIONS
22, ROBOT COMMANDO
23, MASKS OF MAYHEM
24, CREATURE OF HAVOC

Steve Jackson's SORCERY!
1 THE SHAMUTANTI HILLS
2. KHARE - CITYPORT OF TRAPS

25. BENEATH NIGHTMARE CASTLE

26 CRYPT OF THE SORCERER

27 STAR STRIDER

28 PHANTOMS OF FEAR

29. MIDNIGHT ROGUE

30. CHASMS OF MALICE

31, BATTLEBLADE WARRIOR

32. SLAVES OF THE ABYSS

33. SKY LORD

34 STEALER OF SOULS

35 DAGGERS OF DARKNESS

36. ARMIES OF DEATH

37. PORTAL OF EVIL

38. VAULT OF THE VAMPIRE

39. FANGS OF FURY

40. DEAD OF NIGHT

41 MASTER OF CHAOS

42 BLACK VEIN PROPHECY

43. THE KEEP OF THE LICH-LORD

44 LEGEND OF THE SHADOW
WARRIORS

3a THE SEVEN SERPENTS
4. THE CROWN OF KINGS

FIGHTING FANTASY - The Introductory Role-Playing Game
THE RIDDLING REAVER - Four thrilling adventures
THE TROLLTOGTH WARS - A Fighting Fantasy Novel

Steve Jackson and Jan Livingstone
present:

PLFA:

Kenn
ORMIVERE
IIOHGE

JEOVRID

by Dave Morris
and Jamie Thomson

Illustrated by David Gallagher

DEMONSTEALER - A Fighting Fantasy Novel

The Advanced Fighting Fantasy System

OUT OF THE PIT: Fighting Fantasy Mfonsters

TITAN: The Fighting Fantasy World

DUNGEONEER - An Introduction to the World of Role-Playing Games
BLACKSAND!: Advanced Fighting Fanlasy

PUFFIN BOOKS

eee Ce
PUFFIN BOOKS

Published by the Penguin Group
Penguin Books Lid, 27 Wrights Lane, London W8 STZ, England
Penguin Books USA Inc , 375 Hudson Street, New York, New York 10014, USA
Penguin Books Australia Lid, Ringwood, Victoria, Australia
Penguin Books Canada Lid, 10 Alcorn Avenue, Toronto, Oniario, Canada M4¥V 3B2
Penguin Books (NZ) Lid, 182-190 Wairau Road, Auckland 10, New Zealand

Penguin Books Ltd, Registered Offices: Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England

First pubhshed 1990
579 1086

Concept copyright © Steve Jackson and Tan Lrvingsione. 1990
Text copynght © Daye Mornis and Jamie Thomson, 1990
Illustration copynght © Dayid Gallagher, 1990
Map copyright ©@ Leo Harias, 1990
Ali rights reserved

The moral nght of the auchor has been asserted

Printed in England by Clays Lid, St Ives ple
Filmset in |1/13pt Linotron Palatino

Except in the United Srates of America. this book is sold subject
to the condition that it shall noc, by way of trade or olherwise, be lent,
re-sold, hired out, or otherwise circulated without the publisher’s
poor consent in any form of binding or cover other Lhan that in
which jt is published and without a similar condition including this
condition being imposed on the subsequent purchaser

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION

6

ADVENTURE SHEET
14

BACKGROUND
16

THE KEEP OF THE LICH-LORD

271
INTRODUCTION

Before embarking on your adventure, you must first
determine your own strengths and weaknesses.
You must work out your initial LUCK, SKILL and
STAMINA scores. You may use the Adventure Sheet
on pages 14-15 to record all the details of an adven-
ture. Here you will find boxes for recording your
SKILL, STAMINA and LUCK scores (as well as your
RESOLVE score — see below). If you can make a
photocopy of these pages, do so. Otherwise record
al] details in pencil.

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter the
total in the skILL box on the Adventure Sheet.

Roll both dice. Add 12 to the total rolled and enter
this number in the STAMINA box,

Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter the
total in the LucK box.

For reasons that will be explained below, sKILt,
STAMINA and LUCK scores change constantly dur-
ing an adventure. You must keep an accurate record
of these scores, and for this reason you are advised
either to write small in the boxes or to keep an eraser
handy. But never rub out your Initial scores.

6

Your SKILL score reflects your swordsmanship and
general fighting expertise; the higher the better.
Your STAMINA Score reflects your general consti-
tution, your will to survive, your determination and
overall fitness; the higher your STAMINA score, the
longer you will be able to survive. Your LUCK score
indicates how naturally tucky a person you are.
Luck — and magic - are facts of life in the fantasy
kingdom you are about to explore.

Resolve

The Undead are creatures which were once living
people but whose life-force has been replaced by
necromantic sorcery. They are neither alive nor
dead, and they hold a special dread for mortals. The
Undead raised by Mortis’s magic are particularly
fearsome, requiring an extra dice-roll to decide if
you will be rooted to the spot in panic when you
have to confront them. This roll is checked against a
new characteristic: your RESOLVE.

Roll one die and add 5. The total is your Initial
RESOLVE score, At various points in your adventure
(when you have to face the Undead) you will be told
to Test your Resolve. The procedure for carrying this
out is exactly the same as for Testing your Luck (see
below), except that you have to deduct 1 from your
RESOLVE only when you fail to make the roll. If you
check your RESOLY# successfully, then you add 1 to
your score. Your RESOLVE can go above its Initial
score — but it cannot drop below 2 or exceed 12.
The effects of either succeeding or failing in your
RESOLVE Will depend on the current encounter. In
general, the more Undead you are facing at a par-
ticular time, the worse it will be for you if you Tesf
your Resolve and fail. This is because it is sometimes
possible to control your fear when you have to deal
with only one or two undead creatures, whereas a
whole host of them can infect even the bravest with
a terrible dread that only very few can withstand.

Battles

You will often come across situations in the book
where you are instructed to fight a creature of some
sort. An option to flee may be given, but if not— or if
you choose to attack the creature anyway — you
must resolve the battle as set out below.

First record the creature’s skILL and STAMINA
scores in the first vacant Encounter Box on your
Adventure Sheet. The scores for each creature are
given in the book each time you have an encounter
The sequence of combat is then:

1. Roll both dice once for the creature. Add its
SKILL score. The total is the creature’s Attack
Strength.

2. Roll both dice once for yourself. Add the number
rolled to your current SKILL score. This total is your
Attack Strength.

3. If your Attack Strength is higher than that of your
opponent, you have wounded it: proceed to step 4.

8

If the creature’s Attack Strength is higher than
yours, it has wounded you: proceed to step 5. If
both Attack Strength totals are the same, you have
avoided each other’s blows — start the next Attack
Round from step 1, above.

4. You have wounded the creature, so subtract 2
points from its STAMINA score. You may use your
Luck here to inflict additional damage (see below).
Now proceed to step 6.

5. The creature has wounded you, so subtract 2
points from your own STAMINA score. Again you
may use LUCK at this stage (see below).

6. Make the appropriate adjustments to the
STAMINA score of either the creature or yourself
(and to your LUCK score if you used LUCK — see
below).

7. Begin the next Attack Round by repeating steps 1
to 6.

This sequence continues until the STAMINA score
of either the creature you are fighting or yourself has
been reduced to zero (death). If you die, you must
begin the adventure again from the start.

Fighting More Than One Opponent

Sometimes you will have to fight more than a single
opponent. If you are told to take them on one at a
time, proceed by fighting them individually in the
order in which they are listed. If you are instructed

9

ee

to fight them all together, at the start of each Attack
Round you must decide which one you are attack-
ing. Next, roll both dice for each of your opponents
to determine their individual Attack Strengths. Re-
solve your personal combat against your chosen
adversary in the usual way for that Attack Round.
Then compare your Attack Strength for that round
with the Attack Strengths of all your other opponents.
Any creature with a higher Attack Strength than
yours has scored a hit against you, and you must
subtract the usual 2 points from your STAMINA,

Luck

At various mes during your adventure, either in
battles or when you find yourself in a situation in
which you could be either Lucky or Unlucky (details
are given on the relevant pages), you may call on
your LUCK to make the outcome more favourable.
But beware! Using LUCK is a risky business, and if
you are Unlucky the results could be disastrous.

The procedure for using your LUCK is as follows:
roll two dice. If the number rolled is less than or
equal to your current LUCK score, then you have
been Lucky and the result will go in your favour. If
the number rolled is higher than your current LUCK
score, you have been Unlucky and you will be
penalized.

This procedure is known as Testing your Luck, Each
time you Test your Luck, you must subtract 1 point
from your current LUCK score. Thus you will soon

10

realize that the more you rely on your LUCK, the
more risky this will become.

Using Luck in Battles

On certain pages of the book you will be told to Test
your Luck and will be informed as to the conse-
quences of your being Lucky or Unlucky, However,
in battles you always have the option of using your
LUCK, either to inflict a more serious wound on a
creature you have just wounded or to minimize the
effects of a wound the creature has just inflicted on
you.

If you have just wounded the creature, you may Test
your Luck as described above. If you are Lucky, you
have inflicted a severe wound and may subtract an
extra 2 points from the creature’s STAMINA score
However, if you are Unlucky, the wound was a
mere graze and you must restore 1 point to the
creature’s STAMINA (i.e. instead of scoring the
normal 2 points of damage, you have now scored
only 1)

If the creature has just wounded you, you may Test
your Luck to try to minimize the wound. If you are
Lucky, you have managed to avoid the full damage
of the blow. Restore 1 point of STAMINA (i.e. in-
stead of doing 2 points of damage it has done only
1). If you are Unlucky, you have received a more
serious blow. Subtract 1 extra STAMINA point (i.e.
instead of doing 2 points of damage it has done 3).

Remember that you must subtract 1 point from your
own LUCK score each time you Test your Luck.

t1
Alarm Value

If you manage to get into Bloodrise Keep, you will
need to avoid Mortis’s undead patrols. Your ability
to escape detection is represented by an Alarm
Value: this denotes the amount of noise and disturb-
ance you are making which could attract the atten-
tion of the undead sentries to you. You must keep
track of your Alarm Value on your Adventure Sheet.
When you first enter the keep, your Alarm Value
stands at o; from that moment, the text will tell you
when to make additions to it or subtractions from
it.

Restoring Skill, Stamina and Luck

Skull

Your $KILL score will not change much during your
adventure. Occasionally a paragraph may give you
instructions to increase or decrease your SKILL
score. Your SKILL score can never exceed its Initial
value unless you are specifically instructed to the
contrary.

Stamina and Provisions

Your STAMINA score will change a lot during your
adventure as you battle enemies and under-
take arduous tasks. As you near your goal, your
STAMINA level may drop dangerously low and
battles may be particularly risky, so be careful!

Your backpack contains enough Provisions for ten

12

meals. You may rest and eat at any time except
when engaged in battle. Eating a meal restores 4
STAMINA points. When you eata meal, add 4 points
to your STAMINA score and deduct 1 point from
your Provisions. A separate Provisions Remaining
box is included on the Adventure Sheet for recording
details of your Provisions. Remember that you have
a long way to go, so use your Provisions wisely!
Remember also that your STAMINA score may
never exceed its Initial value unless you are
specifically instructed otherwise

Luck

Additions to your LUCK score are awarded during
the adventure after you have been particularly
lucky; details are given in the appropriate para-
graphs of the book. Remember that, as with skILL
and STAMINA, your LUCK score may never exceed
its Initial value, unless you are specifically in-
structed otherwise in a paragraph

Equipment

You will start your adventure with a bare minimum
of equipment, but you may acquire other items
during your travels. (You begin this adventure with
a map of part of the area you will be exploring, and
also a rather special ring, details of which are given
you in the Background to the adventure.) You are
armed with a sword and are dressed in leather
armour. You have a backpack to hold Provisions
and any treasures you may come across.

13

ee eee aaa...

Adventure Sheet

ENCOUNTER BOXES

SKILL STAMINA LUCK
Initial Initial Initial
Skill = Stamina = Luck =
TREASURE PROVISIONS
REMAINING
EQUIPMENT NOTES
LIST

Skill Skill Skill
Stamina= Stamind= Stamina=
Skill Skill Skill
Stamina= Stamina= Stamind=
Skill Skill Skill
Stamina= Stamina= Stamina=
Skill Skill Skill
Stamina= Stamina= Stamina=

BACKGROUND

You have voyaged east of Khul to the Arrowhead
Islands. Here you signed on for a short ime as a
mercenary in the famous White Tiger Regiment, but
now your term of service is up. Just as you are
packing your belongings before leaving Port
Vernale, word reaches you that you have been
summoned by the Triumvirs — the Council of Three
who rule the Varadian Alliance. You arrive at the
council chamber to find old General Chaideshu
awaiting your arrival.

He explains the situation as together you wait for
your audience with the Triumvirs. “Even though
you're a foreigner, you've learnt a bit about our
country while you’ve been here,’ he says. ‘You
know that the various city-states of the Varadian
Alliance are the outer bulwark of civilization against
the reavers of Blood Island. Our fleets hold those
chaos-pirates in check, and have done for centuries.
Now, all that could be changing. Our main fortifi-
cation to the east is Bloodrise Keep, on Stayng
Island. However, we've lost contact with the keep
and the outlying villages.’

Before General Chaideshu can tell you any more,
you are called into the counci! chamber. The Trium-
virs are studying a glimmering image that floats
in the centre of the chamber: a V-shaped line of

16

verdant islands set in an azure sea. You realize that
it is a strategic map of the Arrowhead archipelago,
fashioned by means of mirage-spells. One of the
Triumvirs points to a bright red dot on the shore of
the easternmost island. ‘This shows the location of
Bloodrise Keep,’ he says. ‘We have here the last
report filed by Castellan Braxis, and it sheds a rather
sinister light on recent developments there.’ You
take the report and quickly scan it.

Bloodrise Keep will shortly fall. The troops I sent to
investigate the strange lights in the sky above the
village of Menela have now returned. They have
marched back to within sight of the walls but refuse
to answer signals. A runner sent out came back
shivering with dread. He got close enough to see
that the men have grey, mask-like faces and that
their eyes are the staring eyes of Zombies! in place
of their old battle-standards they now carry ragged
black pennants — the symbol of plague. Even as I
write, it is close to dusk and the camp is active.
Troops are massing and people from the villages are
also milling about the camp as though hypnotized, I
can see a man in tarnished silver armour who
appears to be in commahd. Now he has given the
order for his troops to advance, There are too many,
and the small garrison | have left cannot hope to
hold them off for more than a few hours. I will send
this report by messenger pigeon and hope it will not
be shot down by the enemy’s archers. Now it only
remains for me to take up my weapon and go outon
to the battlements for the last stand. I regret having
failed in your service, my lords. | am your dutiful
vassal, Braxis, Castellan of Bloodrise Keep,

a

axe

‘A brave man...’ you say grimly as you return
the report to the Triumvirs. ‘Do you have any
information as to who the silver-armoured warlord
might be, and how he took control of Braxis’s
troops?’

‘It is all too clear,’ says one of the Triumvirs. ‘Black
plague-standards and tarnished silver armour are
the trademarks of Lord Mortis of Balthor; he was
formerly tyrant of Stayng Island and tried to con-
quer the eastern provinces of our nation, It took the
combined strength of all the Varadian armies to
defeat him, for he was a mighty necromancer as well
as a warlord, and itis said that he recruited his army
from the bodies of fallen foes.’

Baffled, you turn to General Chaideshu. ‘How is it
I've never heard of this Mortis?’ you ask. ‘I didn’t
know there’d been any wars within the archipelago
for centuries.’

‘There haven't,’ he says. ‘This all happened two
hundred years ago. Mortis died in battle and was
buried in a black granite tomb near the village of
Menela, Now it seems that he has returned from the
grave to take his revenge.’

The Triumvirs nod in agreement. ‘He is even now
turning the people of Stayng into undead,’ says
one. “His evil will eat into our good empire like a
cancerous wound unless it is excised. For this we
have need of a sharp knife. You.’

18

Your interview over, General Chaideshu takes you
without delay to the harbour, where a ship has
already been prepared for you. Although he is
hardly a young man, even you have difficulty keep-
ing up with the general's brisk stride. On the way he
explains that most of the military strength of the
Varadian Alliance is currently engaged in fighting
the reavers of Blood Island. ‘That means you're on
your own,’ he warns. ‘In any case, since assassinat-
ing Mortis would immediately neutralize his entire
army of Zombies, the Triumvirs fee] that it makes
more sense to send one capable individual than a
large body of troops.’

On arriving at the ship, Chaideshu introduces you
to its captain and then accompanies you to your
cabin for a final briefing. He gives you a map of
Stayng Island and a Ring of Communing, “The ring
will allow you to communicate with us telepathically
for information or advice — but over such a large
distance it will function only a limited number of
times, 50 use it sparingly.’ (Note on your Adventure
Sheet that the Ring of Communing has three
charges.)

A whistle from on deck signals that the ship is ready
to cast off. Chaideshu tums in the doorway of the
cabin for a last word. ‘Don’t forget,’ he says grimly,
‘it’s vital that you stop Mortis before his undead
army can join forces with the reavers. The lives of all
of us are in your hands.’

19

‘Rest assured, General,’ you reply as you slip the
Ring of Communing on to your finger. ‘Tl! return
Lord Mortis to his grave.’

It is only after he has saluted you and left that you
find an inner voice adding: ’... or die in the
attempt.’

Now turn to 1.

20

1
The small boat arrives at Siltport a week or so later.
The journey is uneventful and by the end of it you
are almost looking forward to your coming chal-
lenge. Siltport is a dilapidated old town which was
once prosperous but which has now fallen on the
hardest of times. The harbour is shallow and heavily
silted, making the docking of any large ship imposs-
ible — hence its name and its lack of prosperity.
However, the captain of your small skiff has no
trouble getting you ashore and, witha curt farewell,
he sails away, obviously keen to get home. The
people — what few there are —- eye you suspiciously
but, looking around, it seems that Siltport has suf-
fered more from lack of trade than from the ravages
of Mortis’s undead hordes. Perhaps the town is far
enough away from Bloodrise Keep to remain un-
touched as yet. You notice few shops and fewer
taverns; the place is almost a ghost town. If you
want to go to one of the taverns to try and pick up
some local rumours, turn to 41. If you prefer to leave
Siltport straight away, turn to 21.

2

It is mid-afternoon when you reach the keep. You
had anticipated problems with crossing the moat,
but now you see that a dam of skulls has been built
across the rivermouth, further up the hillside. This
has reduced the stream feeding the moat to a slug-
gish trickle, and as a result the keep is now sur-
rounded by a ditch of muddy swamp. Clouds of
gnats hang in the humid heat of the afternoon sun,
and the reek of stagnant water makes you gag. If
you think now would be a good time to make a
report to General Chaideshu, and if your Ring of
Communing still has any magical energy, turn
to 126. Otherwise, you begin to make your way
towards the gatehouse — turn to 228.

The hills rise up to your left this time as you follow
the dusty trail back to Siltport. The guards at the
gate are surprised to see you. One of them appears
to be cursing, and you see money changing hands.
You move on, following the road leading south.
Turn to 61.

4
You receive the inscription, but the ring fades from

your finger without any effect. You fancy you catch
the faintest whisper of a voice on the evening
breeze: ‘Not against this foe, mortal. Even we fear to face
one such as hel’ You curse the fickle Fays for their
cowardice as Mortis’s first thunderous blow slams
into your side. You feel ribs snap under the impact
and have to struggle against a feeling of nausea and
weakness. Deduct 4 points from your STAMINA
and, if you are still alive, turn back to 250 to defend
yourself.

fa

*.
| i \

* ee 4
a ‘ _ i"
BS

ue

Ww

5
You open the door and step into a snug, well-lit and

cosy room. Delicious smelis of good cooking and
fine ales waft into your nostrils — but the strongest
smell is that of garlic, for the doors and windows are
framed with wreaths of garlic buds. There are about
ten people in the room; each and every one looks up
in horror as you enter, but when they see you are
not undead they appear to calm down. Neverthe-
less it is clear that a few swords have been loosened
in their scabbards. The innkeeper, a large, burly and
red-faced man with a mighty beer-gut, waddles up
to you, a manic grin fixed on his florid features
‘Welcome, stranger, welcome,’ he babbles, ‘ta the
Dead Men Inn - or... ah... the Traveller's
Respite, as I prefer to call it these days, Well, any-
way, take a seat and I'll bring you ale and some
stew. The beer’s free —I‘m trying to get rid of itas 101
be making a run for it myself any day now. One
Gold Piece buys you the meal and a room.’ And
with that, he bustles off

You look around. In a corner a soldier, his uniform
covered by an old jerkin, stares into a mug of ale, He
has a dark, troubled look about him. Three farmers
stare sullenly at you from another table. In a dark-
ened corner sits a cowled figure, clad in black robes

You cannot see the face or hands, but intuition tells
you that this figure has a sinister aura about it.
Finally, nearest to you sits a middle-aged merchant
flanked by two hired bodyguards, northern barbar-
tans by the look of them. The merchant — tall and

6

surprisingly thin for one of his venal profession —
beckons you over to join him.

The innkeeper returns with a mug of ale for you,
and goes back to work behind the bar, Will you go
and talk to the merchant (turn to 64} or to the
farmers (turn to 135), or will you try to pump the
innkeeper for some useful information (turn to 34)?

‘So, one more for my trusty axe,’ growls the Ogre,
an ugly hulking beast, all muscle and fur, and witha
dog-like head. It swings its huge two-handed axe.
The Orc chucktes horribly and hefts its saw-toothed
cutlass. You must fight them both at the same time.

SKILL STAMINA
CHAOS PIRATE OGRE 7 10
CHAOS PIRATE ORC - 7

If you win, turn to 62.

7-9

You are not observed as you steal silently on to the
poop deck of the pirate vessel. Near by, you spot the
ship’s wheel and a gangway leading down, presum-
ably to the captain’s cabin. On the main deck you
see a stairway leading down into the hold. Will you
now look for the captain (turn to 119) or try to get
into the hold and free the prisoners (turn to 314)?

These visions have no power to harm you, and you
cut at them boldly with your sword. With an eerie
wail, they fade away. You step up to the altar. Turn
to 303.

9
You creep through the shadowy darkness under the

wall towards the stables which appear to be in use:
several horses are visible. As you draw near, you
notice someone kneeling on the cobbled stones of
the courtyard by the stable door; the person is
scrubbing feverishly at the floor, apparently trying
to clean blood off the stonework there. A raven caws
in the afternoon sky, a lonely and desolate sound.
The figure looks like a stableboy. Will you walk
straight up to him (turn to 24) or creep up on him
through the shadows (turn to 122)?

es «| Se

10-11

10

The Skull Beast scuttles past without noticing you.
Now you have the chance to leap out and attack it
from the rear (turn to 342) or stay hidden until it has
gone (turn to 217).

11

You see that the bodies are those of two of the
village militiamen, one killed by an arrow, the other
slain in combat. A half-starved dog yaps savagely at
you as you enter the village. The acrid odour of
smoke fills your nostrils, mingled with the heavy,
sickly-sweet smell of death. The place seems de-
serted, but for a few corpses scattered about, Most
are villagers, while others appear to be outlandishly
dressed outlaws, mostly human. One or two are
Orcs or Hobgoblins. On closer inspection it would
appear the bodies are dead pirates; in the service of
Chaos, to judge by their insignia. Keladon has been
sacked in a raid and most of the people have fled or

12

been carried off. From another street you hear the
sound of voices — the pirates have left a few of their
number here! Will you leave the village and invest-
igate the cove (turn to 383); or will you take this
opportunity to search some of the larger houses in
the village (turn to 51), the village hall (turn to 131)
or temple (turn to 171), these being the only build-
ings of interest in the village?

12
‘Yes, we know where it is. It lies up in the hills,
through a tortuous and dangerous ravine,’ says
Belar. ‘You would certainly need a guide to get
there.’

‘Give me one, then,’ you ask him.

‘No one would travel in the hills at this time,’ he
replies. ‘All are terrified — not even for half a
thousand Gold Pieces would one of our guides take
vou there, believe me.’

Sighing resignedly, you decide to ask about the
beast. Turn to 361.

13-14

13

As you draw nearer you see that what you thought
was a rider is in fact a Centaur, a creature half-man,
half-horse. It has the legs and trunk of a horse, but
from the animal’s shoulders sprout the upper torso,
arms and head ofa man. It holds a short spear in one
hand and a small shield in the other and you notice
several more javelins attached to a saddlebag.
However, the poor creature looks close to collapsing
from exhaustion. Three wolves are pursuing it re-
lentlessly, snapping and biting at the Centaur’s
legs. Will you throw some food to the wolves — you
must have at least 3 packs of Provisions to throw —
(turn to 102) or fight the wolves (turn to 263)?

14
You kick the door open, but in doing so you set off a
trap. A small keg of gunpowder goes off at your feet
— deduct 4 points from your sTAMINA. If you sur-
vive, you find yourselfina cluttered cabin. The desk
is littered with papers and nautical instruments;
chests of booty and captured treasures lie scattered
around. Captain Jarmesh is a small, rat-like man in,
gaudy clothes, his eyes beady and cunning. At the
sight of you he gives an oath and shouts, ‘You are
not one of my men!’ Drawing his sword, he comes at
you. Turn to 294.

15-16

15
With a blood-curdling war-cry you charge among
the pirates. A brave but foolish move, for there are
just too many of them. You cut down several pir-
ates, but then the Chaos Knights join in and itis not
long before you succumb to the blows of a score of
enemies. Your adventure ends here.

16
As you step down from the ladder you hear a faint
swishing sound, and some kind of dust hits you in
the face. Coughing and sneezing, you wipe at your
eyes — but then you begin to feel awfully tired. Try as
you may, you cannot resist the urge to close your
eyes, and you sink into a deep slumber.

Later you awaken, to find yourself, quite alone, in
an underground chamber lit by a torch on the wall,
A desk and chair are the only furniture, and lots of
alchemical apparatus is scattered about. At the far
end of the room, three tunnels lead off into dark-
ness. Daylight pours down through the open trap-
door above your head, Will you climb out and leave
Benani (turn to 116) or take the torch and enter the
left-hand tunnel (turn to 162), the middle tunnel
(turn to 323) or the right-hand tunnel (turn to 287)?

17-18

17

Lighting a torch, you clamber in through the black,
vawning fissure. Inside, your torchlight reveals that
vou have entered an ancient building which must
have stood here, buried, for centuries and now
uncovered by a chance rock-fall! You realize that
vou are standing at a huge doorway. Inset in the
floor in letters of red stone are the words: “The
Temple of Lhyss, Goddess of Luck and Fortune’. At
the far end of this huge vaulted chamber you can
ust make out some sort of altar. Five fluted columns
line the walls to either side of you, forming small
cloisters, Ahead, a wide marble corridor leads to the
altar, Something glints on the altar in the flickering
torchlight. Will you walk up the central passageway
turn to 103), take the left colonnade (turn to 74}, or
the right colonnade (turn to 138), or turn your back
on the Temple of Lhyss and continue on your way
iturn to 94}?

18
You say and do nothing as Kandogor slays his
victim without mercy, This turns out to bea woman,
an Elf, in fact. ‘Odd,’ murmurs Kandogor, ‘but I
have heard of certain Elves who have turned to the
service of evil.’

‘Well, what’s done is done,’ you say philo-
sophically

Some hours later, you are woken by the touch of a
cold blade at your throat. You open your eyes just in
time to see Kandogor standing over you with a
sneer on his face. It is the last thing you ever see.

19

19
To reach Whistlestone Tor you will have to pass
through the western edges of Shamdabag Wood, an
area over which the Wood Elves hold no sway. You
set off purposefully but soon you lose your direction
amid the heavy oaks. This costs you time, and night
begins to fall. Soon the wood is in deep darkness
and you are forced to make camp for the night.
Building a small fire, you cook some of your rations
and, having eaten, lie down on a bed of leaves to
sleep...

5

You wake up with a start. A sound has disturbed
your slumber. Itis still the dead of night. You listen,
ears straining to filter the sounds of the forest. A
faint, ghostly wail comes to you through the black-
ness and grows louder and more insistent, until you
recognize the baying of wolves. But this is not quite
the same sound a normal wolf-pack would make. If
possible, it is more bestial, more feral, You realize
with a thrill of horror that the sound is growing
much closer and its timbre is changing. Whatever
they are, the creatures have picked up your scent
and are closing in on you. Will you make a run for it,
hoping to get out of the forest before they reach you
(turn to 55) or quickly build up the fire and make a
stand here (turn to 95)?

= a

~~ -

J——

,

20-21

20

You search the southwest area of the graveyard,
once again to no avail. Time trickles on to the late
afternoon, Now Elindora is becoming visibly agit-
ated. ‘We must find them today -— they will be
alerted tonight and will seek us out. We cannot
afford to wait another day!’ Will you search the
northeast corner (turn to 60) or the northwest (turn
bo 170)?

You arrive at the main gate of Siltport. Worried
suards gaze out at the surrounding countryside as
# they expected a thousand Zombie warriors to
appear and assault the place at any moment.
Perhaps they will, you think grimly to yourself. You
step out on to the main road outside the town. ‘Hah,
we'll never see that one again, I'll wager,’ you
overhear one of them mutter to another. Will you
head north on the road to Menela {turn to 181),
south through the hills (turn to 61) or use your ring
to communicate with General Chaideshu (turn to
101)?

22-23

22

After a long journey you reach Bloodrise Keep
unharmed. However, the place is completely de-
serted, You have taken too long to achieve your
destination, and the Chaos fleet has been and gone.
Even now Mortis’s undead legions are attacking the
Delphic Alliance. Defeat is certain; although you
still live, you have failed in your qitest. Your adven-
ture ends here.

23
‘Excellent! Tomorrow we must search the cemetery
for the crypt of Lady Lotmora and attempt to de-
stroy the Vampires during the hours of daylight ~ if
we attack at night they may well prove too power-
ful. I will meet you downstairs at daybreak.’

You meet Elindora outside the inn just as the sun
rises over the horizon the next morning, rays of rosy

24

light spread like fingers across the sky. She bids you
good day and adds, ‘If you allow me, I will use my
magic to strengthen your power to resist the powers
of the Undead.’ If you allow Elindora to cast a spell
upon you, turn to 108. If you refuse, turn to 129.

24
You stride forward out of the shadows towards the
boy. He turns in shocked surprise at the sight and
sound of you. Without hesitating he leaps to his
feet, his face a picture of total terror, and shrieks an
inarticulate cry of fear. A split second later, he has
fied out of sight before you have a chance to re-
assure him. Exploring inside the stable, you find itis
in use, full of many healthy and well-fed horses.
They seem skittish. There is nothing else here of
interest, so will you now follow the shadows across
the courtyard to the barracks on the other side (turn
to 42) or make for the inner gate to the keep (turn to

379)?

25

25

‘Aha?’ says the voice. “You are not undead — thank
the gods!’ A torch flares up and in the light you can
see where you are —in an underground chamber. A
desk and chair are the only furniture, and lots of
alchemical apparatus is scattered about. At the far
end of the room, three tunnels lead off into the
darkness. A man dressed in a dark-blue robe
covered in strange symbols is seated at the desk. He
is an old greybeard, and looks rather frightened.
‘My name is Hlassamon and I was the village
alchemist here at Benari. When Mortis sent his
Undead to destroy us, I fled to my cellar retreat;
indeed the very sight of the living dead filled me
with dread. Now I have brewed a Potion of Resolve
so that I could get up the courage to try and escape.
But I realize that the Undead must all have left, for
how else could one such as you get here?’

You tell him that this is indeed the case and that he
should be fairly safe now - so long as he heads
straight for Siltport and takes a boat to get him off
theisland. . . if any remain to be had.

‘Thank you for that good advice, my noble friend.’
Then a look of pure greed crosses his features for a
moment, ‘Now that I no longer need it, perhaps you
would be interested in purchasing this potion,’ he
says, reaching into his robe and drawing out a vial
full of a bright blue liquid. ‘I will accept 35 Gold
Pieces and not a piece less. Or some special item, if
you have one that would interest me.’ Will you pay
him the gold for the potion, if you have that much

26-27

(turn to 225), show him the items you have collected
(turn to 173), attack him and try to take the potion
{turn to 200) or decline his offer and leave Benari
(turn to 116)?

26
You manage to slip over the side without being seen
and swim back to shore, further up the beach. No
one notices you. Turn to 186.

27

The Centaur canters over to you and says in a
haughty voice, “Thank you, my friend — I owe you
my life! Those wolves were out to eat me, hoof and
hand! I am Lord Salesh, Elf-friend, and most noble
of the creatures of Shamdabag Wood. I serve the
gods of Good — as do you, clearly. How may I repay
you?’ You tell him about your mission, explaining
that you must get to Bloodrise Keep. ‘Aha! I can help
you in your excellent and most laudable quest, my
friend. I pledge myself as your steed for ever, in
gratitude for your saving my life! With me to carry
you, Bloodrise Keep is but moments away and
Mortis is as good as dead . . . well, anyway, laid to
rest — for, as we all know, he is already dead, ha ha!
Come, comrade, climb up on my back.’ |

You mount up, realizing he will indeed be able to
carry you quickly — but can you put up with his
endless prattle? Salesh gallops along the road
through Shamdabag Wood at a good pace, much
faster than you could travel on foot. He begins to tell

28-29

you his life-story and of his ‘great exploits’, which
soon begin to sound somewhat exaggerated. Turn
to 202.

28
Through the arrow-slits behind him, you see the last
rays of daylight drain out of the sky. ‘Night has
fallen,’ Mortis says in a voice filled with triumph.
“You cannot hope to stand against me now.’ You
must fight him.

LORD MORTIS SKILL 11 STAMINA 20

If you win, turn to 400.

29
You creep cautiously along the gallery, fearing that
at any moment you may step upon a creaky floor-
board. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 44. If
you are Unlucky, turn to 204.

30-31

30

You step through the shattered gates of Borgos: it
seems to be quite a large town with many streets,
shops and houses, but it is deathly still. The place ts
completely deserted and there is no sign of life. It is
starting to get dark now and you will have to make
camp soon. Suddenly you hear a strange noise that
you cannot put a name to, coming from the other
end of town. It is a clicking and clacking sound,
together with curious rasping, Will you hide outina
nearby house in order to make camp (turn to 242) or
go and investigate the noise (turn to 337)?

31
A short distance further on, the corridor opens out
into a vestibule, with ragged banners draped along
the side walls. Three closed doors of wine-dark
mahogany face you. Each has a symbol daubed on it
in scarlet: the first (on your left) shows a picture of a
poisonous serpent, the middle door has a picture of
an upraised sword, and the right-hand door bears a
stylized picture of an oak tree.

As you step forward across the hall, you get a
sudden shock when you notice for the first time the
grotesque figure of a hunchbacked jester sitting,
slumped, against the wall. Instead of being dressed
in the customary multi-coloured motley, his cos-
tume consists of drab patches of black and grey. His
clowning stick ts lying across his knees: on the end
of itis a painted wooden skull with a movable jaw.

32

This macabre fellow must be Mortis’s jester; he
seems to be asleep.

If you want to shake him roughly awake with the
point of your sword at his throat, turn to 77. If you
wake him quietly and ask him for directions from
here, turn to 233. If you think it is wiser to leave him
sleeping, you can press on through either the left-
hand door (turn to 172), the middle door (turn to
376) or the right-hand door (turn to 100).

32
You stare fixedly at the jewelled ring and concen-
trate on the face of the old general. After a moment
or two his craggy face appears in your mind. “What
have you to report?’ he enquires. The sound of his
voice in your head gives you an eerie feeling. You
tell him what has happened. ‘Good, good, you have
done well. The tomb-robber evidently discovered
the body of Mortis with the Spear of Qadarnai
still embedded in his chest. Foolishly, he must
have removed it, thus enabling the necromancer to

33

reanimate his body and escape. Mortis slew the
robber with ease, no doubt, and must have turned
the corpse into a Zombie that the spear kept inactive
until you took it from his dead hand. Keep the Spear
of Qadarnai, for it will prove most harmful to
Mortis. Now, good luck and report back when you
have further news!’ The link with Chaideshu is
broken (remember to subtract 1 from the charges the
Ring of Communing possesses on your Adventure
Sheet). You leave the tomb and make for the road
that leads back to Siltport. Turn to 3.

33
Scarcely believing what you are doing, you find you

are able to pick the shadow up. It is, in fact, a
Shadow Cloak and it will aid you to move quietly.
When you are in the keep and are told to increase
your Alarm Value by a particular number, you may
deduct 1 from that number — but you cannot reduce
it to zero if the number is only 1 in the first place
(i.e., when told to increase your Alarm Value, you
must always increase it by at least 1). Turn to 350.

34-35

34
You turn to the innkeeper behind the bar. He nods

nervously at you. Will you ask him why all the
entrances to the inn are surrounded with garlic
(turn to 360) or why he intends to ‘make a run for it’
(turn to 390)?

35
You uncork the flask containing the Elixir of Lhyss

and swig it down. It tastes pleasant enough, if
slightly bitter, Note the number of this paragraph
on your Adventure Sheet and then roll one die. If you
score a1 or 2, turn to 154. If you score a 3 or 4, turn to
308. If you score a 5 or 6, turn to 275

36-37

36

Running hell for leather, you pursue the boy.
Rounding the corner of the house, you come face to
face with three ugly figures — Chaos pirates. One isa
scarred, bald-headed man, one a hulking great Orc
with a snouted, yellow-tusked face, and the last a
short but evil-looking Goblin. ‘What have we here,
my friends?’ the Orc growls gleefully. ‘More fodder
for our cutlasses!’ They advance on you. You must
fight all three at the same time.

SKILL STAMINA
BALDY 6 8
TUSKER 6 9
SHORTSTUFF 9 6

If you win, turn to 351.

As you near the village hail you hear sounds of
shouting and the hubbub of several voices coming
from inside. You poke your head round the door,
Inside, about a dozen men, Chaos pirates by the
look of them, have formed a circle around two
others. The pirates are a strange-looking bunch,
thoroughly disreputable and evil-looking: they con-
sist of men, Orcs, Goblins, Hobgoblins, Ogres and
the like. They are watching the two men fighting
inside the circle and are laying bets on the outcome —
which in this case would appear to be a foregone
conclusion. One contestant is a huge bear-like man
with a long braided ponytail and large ear-rings; he
is dressed only in loose baggy trousers and a red-

a ee ee

38

and-black sash. He is mightily muscled and looks as
mean as a walking shark. His opponent must be the
village blacksmith — although large and strong, he is
obviously no match for the pirate gorilla. The crowd
are shouting, ‘Baracas, Baracas!’ — obviously the
name of the pirate wrestler. Within seconds the
blacksmith is down, and Baracas is about to break
his neck when a man steps into the circle and
commands him to stop. ‘Don’t kill him—he’ll make a
good galley-slave,’ he says.

‘Aye, aye, bos’n,’ replies Baracas in a sullen voice.

At the back of the hall you can see a pair of double
doors. The pirates are getting ready for another
bout. Will you sneak round the back of the village
hall (turn to 67) or mingle with the pirates, hoping
they won't notice you among the general chaos
(turn to 97)?

38
The strange sound of atonal chanting wafts from the
temple. Its two large oak-bound doors have been
blown open by some powerful force, and from
inside a blackish smoke that smells absolutely dis-
gusting billows out. Over the doors, the embossed
words, ‘Church of the White Queen’, have been
defaced crudely; someone has scrawled above them
in charcoal: ‘Shrine of the Chaos Gods’. Looking
inside, at the far end of the temple you see a robed
figure sweeping the contents of the altar to the
ground and generally desecrating the temple. He
appears to be human and wears dirty-brown robes,

39-40

covered in strange-looking sigils and talismans.
However, when he turns his face you see that his
head resembles nothing human — it is, rather, the
head of some strange beast of your nightmares. It
has the eyes and horns of a goat and vicious-looking
fangs. The creature seems to be reconsecrating the
temple to the Chaos Gods. Will you attack this
shaman (turn to 118) or, deciding that it is none of
your business, turn and leave (turn to 255)?

39
Screaming in terror, you stagger backwards. The

apparitions fly straight into your face, and you fall to
the ground with a crash. Deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA. The ghostly visions fade into nothing-
ness as quickly as they had appeared. Sheepishly
you pick yourself up, realizing they had no real
power to harm you. You step up to the altar, Turn to

393.

40
‘Wait,’ you cry and, leaping up, grab his sword-arm
before he can thrust home. Kandogor looks at you
stonily for a moment and then steps back, muttering
angrily under his breath. Hurriedly, the figure pulls
back the cowl ~ it is a female Wood Elf! Her skin is
like moonlight, her Jarge eyes like liquid emeralds,
and her brown hair is bound in a circlet of white
flowers, a picture of beauty. She says in a lilting
voice, ‘Please, listen to me. My name is Elindora,
and I am one of the few Elves who still live in
Shamdabag Wood. We are worshippers of the god-

40

dess Iatro, She who Heals and Succours. The god-
dess loathes the Undead as abominations, travesties
of life, and has commanded us to help the people to
defeat Mortis. I have been forced to travel in dis-
guise, for Mortis’s spies are everywhere, but when!
saw you I knew your mission was as ours — to
destroy all the Undead. Tell me, is this true?’

You explain patiently that you are not a worshipper
of Iatro and that you have come here only as a
mercenary adventurer to slay Mortis - for the
money, not for the:people.

‘Thank goodness some action is being taken at last.
But there is good in you — I can feel it,” she insists,
You shrug resignedly. ‘I have come to ask your aid,’
she implores. ‘The cemetery holds the tomb of Lady
Lotmora, once the wife of Mortis. Now that Mortis
has returned, he has used his black powers to return
her to the world — as a Vampire. Now she terrorizes
the area; already she has built up a small coven of
Vampires from the local population — or what re-
mains of it. The priestess of Jatro has sent me to
destroy her, but I cannot doit alone. Help me, and!
will aid you in your quest to kill Mortis.’

‘Don’t trust this witch,” says Kandogor reproach-
fully. ‘Elves have no souls, and you must have
heard of the Dark Elves who serve the cause of Evil.
I think she is a spy sent by Mortis to slay us by
treachery.’

Will you agree to help Elindora (turn to 47); or must
you decide that your prime mission is to kill Mortis

41

himself and say that you cannot help her (turn to
70)?

41

You enter an inn called The Sword of the Samurai.
Inside, several ex-sailors and townspeople glance
up at you warily. After buying a round or two of
drinks, you get into conversation with some of
them. One old sailor tells you, ‘Aye, it’s the night-
time that’s dangerous in these parts. As long as ye
be safe inside — behind locked and barred windows
and doors, mark ye- ye kin survive.’ You ask him to
go on, and he tells a frightening tale of foul creatures
stalking the streets, of people disappearing, to re-
turn to their families and friends as hideous walking
corpses — all this since they heard of the sacking of
Bloodrise Keep a month or two past. ‘Anyhow,’
growls the sailor, ‘what be a young warrior like
v'tself doin’ in this forsaken hell-hole?’ Will you tell
the sailor, and those others who are listening, of
your mission on Stayng Island (turn to 121) or say
that you are just passing through on your way to
some islands to the west of here (turn to 81)?

42

42

Reaching the barracks door, you pass through it into
the cool gloom of a long hall. Even as your eyes are
adjusting from the bright afternoon sunlight out-
side, the very air in front of your face vibrates with a
rumbling, growling sound, and the next instant a
huge hairy arm crashes into you; at the same time,
you are overwhelmed by a disgusting stench that
rolls over you from the creature confronting you.
Deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA. This is a
Werewight — a beast fashioned by necromantic sor-
cery, a thing neither living nor undead, but, for all
that, a fighting fury.

WEREWIGHT SKILL7

If you defeat it in seven Attack Rounds or less, turn
to 226. If it takes you between eight and ten Rounds,
turn to 284. If you are still fighting it after ten
Rounds, turn to 178.

STAMINA 12

43

He tells you that, according to legend, the Charm is
a powerful spell used by the priestesses of the White
Queen, a goddess of healing whom the Elves pro-
pitiate under another name. This Charm works on
any dead thing, such as bone or unliving flesh,
turning it instantly to dust, ‘The White Queen's
followers used it in ancient times,’ he adds, ‘to lay
some of Mortis’s undead followers to rest, Regret-
fully, the Charm is but rarely given to mortals, and
there were too few priestesses to make any real
impression on Mortis’s legions. But that is always
the way, as the epics demonstrate time and again: it
is not men and women of peace who overcome the
world’s evils, but brave warriors who are not afraid
to shed blood and risk lives!’

44

Looking at Garond, silently you doubt that he has
ever shed blood or risked his own life. Rather than
press the point, however, you ask whether he
knows the Charm.

‘No,’ he says. ‘The only person who might is Lady
Iola, the mother of Braxis. She reveres the goddess,
and having met her I can attest to her holiness. But
since Bloodrise Keep has fallen to Mortis, it is prob-
able that Lady Iola and her son have been slain.
Even if they have not, you have no way to reach
them,’ he adds sadly.

Will you now ask him about the Spear of Qadarnai
(turn to 280), or the Finger of Lhyss (turn to 300)?
Alternatively, you may think it is time to take your
leave of Garond and make your way towards
Keladon (turn to 165)

44
Hardly daring to draw breath, you finally reach the
far end of the gallery. Your fingers find the door-
latch in the gloom and you slowly edge it open.
Turn to 184.

45

Taking a fisherman’s oilskins lying near by, you
wrap them over your weapons and equipment and
stumble down the hill path, to attach yourself as
unobtrusively as possible to the end of the column
of unfortunate villagers. The pirates bully and
shove everyone cruelly, and you are whipped
savagely for no reason; deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA. As you are led on to the Merciless, the
two Chaos Knights are watching impassively
through their horned helmets. To the [eft, a door
leads, you guess, to the captain’s cabin; to the right,
a ladder descends below decks. You are led down
towards the hold, presumably to be chained to one
of the oars. You are nearing the lower decks when
you arrive opposite a low door in the corridor. Will
you dart through the door, hoping that a guard
won't spot you (tur to 174), or wait for a better
opportunity (turn to 53)?

46-47

46

You travel all the next day along the featureless road
to Borgos. After a while you notice many black birds
wheeling in the sky ahead of you. Soon you come to
a crossroads and a gibbet standing by the side of the
toad. Hanging from it is a cage in which some poor
unfortunate is trapped. You observe the livery of
Bloodrise Keep — the victim is an ex-soldier in the
service of the castellan. As you draw nearer, he stirs
and lifts a bedraggled hand towards you. He looks
more than half starved, burnt by the sun, and he is
filthy dirty with blood-stained, tattered clothes. The
black birds overhead are crows, their cries filling the
sky with despair. The road forks here, south to-
wards Benani village and east to Port Borgos. Will
vou try to get the cage down in order to release the
man (turn to 142) or carry on, either towards Borgos
(turn to 85) or to the village of Benari (tum to 223)?

47
‘Excellent! Tomorrow we must search through the

cemetery for the crypt of Lady Lotmora and then
attempt to destroy the Vampires during daylight
hours — if we attack at night they may prove too
powerful for us. I will meet you downstairs at
daybreak.’

Kandogor is plainly unimpressed and advises you
to watch out for treachery. You tell him that it is
your turn to stand watch. Scowling, he goes to bed.

Next morning, you and Kandogor meet Elindora
outside the inn just as the sun is rising over the

48

horizon, rays of rosy light spreading like fingers
across the land. She bids you good day and then
suggests, ‘If you will allow me, I can use my magic
to strengthen your power to resist the powers of the
Undead.’

‘Do not agree to such evil sorcery,’ Kandogor pro-
tests loudly. ‘It is too obviously an attempt to
weaken your power — | advise against it strongly,
my friend.’ He eyes the Elf suspiciously.

Elindora gives a haughty shrug. ‘I speak only the
truth,’ she replies.

If you are willing to allow Elindora to cast a spell
upon you, turn to 214. lf you refuse, turn to 244.

48

You burst into the apartment —- to discover Lord
Mortis sitting on an ornate throne awaiting night-
fall. He is clad in tarnished silver armour of a style
not worn for many centuries, and in his hand he
balances a heavy flanged mace. If you have the
Ivory Spear of the hero Qadarnai, you can either
hurlit at him or use itin mélée. Should you decide to
throw it, roll two dice. If the total rolled is less than
or equal to your SKILL, your spear missile hits him —
turn to 208. If the total rolled is greater than your
SKILL, you miss. In this event, or if you do nat have
the Ivory Spear or choose not to throw it, you must
do battle with him hand to hand — turn to 28.

ao

———l

49-51

49
‘The barracks are crawling with the Undead,’ the

boy whispers fearfully. ‘The entire garrison is now
Zombies, and Mortis has also brought strange living
dead from an ancient battle-site near here. Dead
souls in outlandish armour and wielding bizarre
weapons roam the barracks at will and are released
at set times in order to patrol the castle. There must
be two hundred and fifty or more in the barracks. To
go there is certain death.’ Turn to 68.

50
You remember the words of Morlak: how normal
weapons did not stop this creature from destroying
his village. If you have an iron mace, turn to 182. If
you do not, then you have no suitable weapon and
will have to fight with what you do have. Turn to
115. '

51
If you have already searched all the places of interest
in Keladon, turn to 91. If you have not yet searched
all these places, turn to 211.

52-53

52

Belar smiles and utters a sigh of relief; then he
passes the word on to the villagers. Their faces are
no longer set in fear and despair but begin to show
glimmerings of hope. They all give you a resound-
ing cheer. To them you will always be a hero -
provided you come back. The blacksmith, a large,
burly man, offers to sharpen your sword-in ex-
change for two packs of Provisions. ‘Special dis-
count rate,’ he claims. If you agree to pay and have
your sword sharpened, turn to 392. If you want to
get on with your task, turn to 192.

53
You decide to wait. Unfortunately, the prisoners’

hold is only just round the next corner and, even
mow, the villagers are being chained to low benches
beside the oars — you have no choice but to act at
ence, before you find yourself chained up. You
throw off your oilskins and ready your weapon,
catching the few pirates who are present completely
by surprise. You cut them down, but not before one
wf them has run on deck and given the alarm. You

54755

race up after him, to find the whole crew alerted and
closing on you. You can do nothing now but try te
gel away — you leap over the side and swim to the
shore. Racing up the beach, you are still pursued by
several pirates, some armed with bows. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to go. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 59.

54
You deal him a painful blow on the chest and his

eyes widen in fear. Dropping to his knees, he
babbles, ‘Spare me, noble warrior, spare me.’ As
you menace him with your weapon, amazed at his
cowardice, he cowers down and says, “Wait, | can
pay you weil — take these Gold Pieces — more thana
hundred" He reaches into his coat and, taking outa
box, offers it to you. If you accept it, turn to 345. If
you refuse it, turn to 240.

55
With a rising feeling of panic, you sprint towards
the west through the woods. But it is almost pitch
black, and you are soon stumbling through the
trees, branches whipping at your face and roots
seeming to grab for your legs with malicious intent
Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 75. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 136.

56-57

56

Mortis is ready for you. Even as you wrench the
door open, he has already summoned a spell of
deathly sorcery with which to slay you. A rolling
cloud of grave-gas billows forth to engulf you; in the
depths of it you feel phantom hands clawing at your
flesh. You open your mouth to scream, but all you
take into your lungs is the ghastly poisonous vapour
that your enemy’s magic has invoked. Your life
ends here.

You manage to control the terror that threatens to
everwhelm your mind. The Spirits draw near, and
then you can hear their voices in your head, speak-
ing to you. You realize they are trying to tell you
something:

‘Like one, that on a lonesame road

Doth walk in fear and dread,

And having once turned round walks on,
And turns no more his head;

Because he knows, a frightful fiend

Doth close behind him tread.’

Having relayed their strange message, the Spirits
Degin to drift slowly out to sea once more. Will you
walk on (turn to 89), turn round (turn to 109) or wait
‘turn to 179)?

58-60
58
You must fight.
CHAOS SHAMAN SKILL 8 STAMINAQ

During each round of combat, the shaman’s staff
pulses with a dark light that seems to drain your
strength. Win or lose, each round you must deduct
1 extra point from your STAMINA because the
shaman’s sorcery is draining you. You must kill him
quickly or die! If you win, turn to 305,

59
An arrow thuds into your thigh and you fall, help-
less, to the sand, Several pirates race up to you and
run you through before you can act. Your adventure
ends here.

60
It is almost dusk by the time you find the crypt of
Lady Lotmora. ‘Hurry,’ hisses Elindora, reaching
into her pack for a hammer and a wooden stake,
‘they could awaken at any moment.’ Grimly, you
dash down the stairs into a dimly lit tomb.

‘Too late,’ screeches a voice, a voice resonant with
such evil that it curdles your blood. From behind a
large tombstone, a figure steps forward to block
your view. It is a woman with pale skin and aristo-
cratic features. Her eyes are like twin orbs of bloody
nightmare and her mouth opens to reveal fangs that
glitter in the rising moonlight.

‘Lady Lotmora!’ exclaims Elindora. ‘We are undone!

61-62

Xo, wait! Look — she is weak, it is still too early for
ne rise!’ She could be right, you think to yourself.
Lotmora does appear somewhat unsure on her feet.

‘ou poor fools,’ snarls the Vampiress, ‘to imagine
you could destroy me!’ She laughs maniacally and
sestures to her left; four figures shamble into sight;
they are Vampires — three obviously had once been
farmers, the fourth is a former soldier of Bloodrise
Keep. Their faces are a mask of bloodlust, ali reason
tost. Lady Lotmora stares at you both and you feel a
terrible desire to surrender flooding over you. Test
wour Resolve. If you succeed, turn to 150. If you fail,
surn fo 420

61
The road takes you south for some way, then it
suns east, rising up into the rocky hills. Soon you
and yourself walking through a shallow pass be-
sween two peaks. If you have the word ‘PIRATE’
on your Adventure Sheet, turn to 201. If not, turn to

141,

62
You find 10 Gold Pieces and a pack containing one
«ot of Provisions on the body of the Ogre, but
nothing else (note them on your Adventure Sheet).
Now you may search the large house (turn to 251) or
the bungalow (turn to 71), if you have not already
done so. Alternatively, if you decide you have done
with searching the houses, you can investigate the
temple (turn to 171) or the village hall (turn to 131);

63-64

oryou can leave the village and go to the cove where
the fishing boats should be (turn to 311).

63
You hurry back to the cellar belonging to the
alchemist. It is still empty. Will you now climb out
through the trapdoor and leave Benari (turn to 116),
enter the left-hand tunnel (turn to 162), or the
middle tunnel (turn to 323)?

64

‘Sit down, sit down,’ says the merchant as you
approach his table. ‘I see you are an adventurer - |
have some items for sale that would be of interest to
one such as you. I’m heading for Siltport as . . . ah

. Tecent circumstances force me to flee Stayng,
and so I am able to offer my stock at remarkable
cut-price rates.’ Provided you have enough gold,
you may buy whatever you wish from the
merchant.

A Puffball (explodes when thrown)

— 45 Gold Pieces

Two Potions of Healing (restores all lost

STAMINA) — 30 Gold Pieces each
A Ring of Skill (adds 1 tO SKILL)

— 70 Gold Pieces

A suit of fine armour (subtracts 1 from all damage

you take) — 65 Gold Pieces

When you have concluded your dealings with the
merchant you may talk to the innkeeper (turn to 34)

65-66

or to the farmers (turn to 135). If you have finished
salking, turn to 273.

65
kf you have the Spear of Qadarnai, turn to 22. If not,
furn to 353.

You remain calm, your mind racing frantically for
some plan that might save you. Unfortunately, the
skeletons have no intention of giving you time to
think. Fingers like dry twigs close on a dozen an-
tique triggers, and a volley of bolts shoots towards
you. Twisting as you throw yourself flat, you are
stil] struck by a couple of the missiles; lose 3 points
from your STAMINA. Even as you are rolling to-
wards the door, one of the Undead draws its sword
and slices down at you — a wild swing that cleaves
mto your thigh, causing the loss of another 1 point
of STAMINA.

If you are still alive, you manage to hurl yourself
through the door, pulling it shut behind you. As
vour foes scrabble to get the door open, you are
already bounding down the spiral stairs. Knowing
they will be hot on your trail in moments, you reach
the landing and open the door leading to the battle-
ments. Add 3 to your Alarm Value and turn to 302.

67-68

67

You creep round to the back of the hall, avoiding the
nest of pirates inside. Keeping a sharp lookout from
round the corner, you see a couple of pirates loading
a mule with booty taken during their recent raid on
the village. They lead the mule away in the direction
of the cove where the fishing boats are usually kept.
Now you may search some of the larger houses in
the village (turn to 51), if you have notalready done
so; alternatively, you can investigate the village
temple (turn to 171); or you can leave the village and
go to the cove where the fishing boats should be
(turn to 311).

68

A sound echoes across the empty bailey, coming
from the area of the barracks. The boy starts in alarm
and hisses, ‘It is dangerous to speak here, even in
daylight! If we are found, it will be death —-and then
only a temporary one!’ He turns tail and flees in
terror back to the safety of the stables. For you, there
is no option of flight. You must go on to complete
your quest or die trying! Will you now investigate
the barracks (turn to 42) or go to the great gate of the
keep (turn to 379)?

69-70

69

You see the leering grin of the nearest skeleton. Its
thin fingers reach in a leisurely way for the crossbow
trigger, confident thal you have no means of escape,
Your thoughts are a blur as you try desperately to
summon up a plan. Then, remembering your en-
counter with the castellan’s mother, you recite the
Charm of Disruption she taught you. The words
sound like a death-knell, and you watch as the
skeletons crumble before your eyes. Their ancient
mould-clumped armour clangs hollowly on the
floor as your foes turn to piles of fine grey dust. Your
hasty search of the room reveals nothing of interest,
On the other side of the room, a narrow flight of
steps winds up to the roof, If you go that way, turn
to 279. If you decide instead to return to the landing
and go through the door leading to the battlements,
turn to 302.

70
She is disconsolate at your refusal. Kandogor smiles
triumphantly and ushers her out. You return to bed,

71-72

Some hours later, you are woken by the sensation of
cold steel at your throat. You open your eyes just in
time to glimpse Kandogor standing over you with a
sneering smile on his face. It is the last thing you
ever see.

71
Searching the bungalow proves fruitless. You find
nothing except the body of a poor murdered fisher-
man. Cursing Mortis and his pirate allies, you leave
You may now make your way to the large house
(turn to 251) or the stables (turn to 291), if you have
not already searched these two places. Alterna-
tively, if you have not done so, you can investigate
the temple (turn to 171) or the village hall (turn to
131); if you would rather, you can leave the village
and go to the cove where the fishing boats should be
(turn to 311).

72

You make camp for the night ona tree-lined hillside.
You are awoken in the early morning by a loud
roaring noise. Leaping up, you see that you have
made camp too near a cave and its inhabitants: a
grizzly bear and her young cubs. After the brief fight
that ensues you manage to escape, but not before a
vicious paw-swipe has laid open your thigh. Deduct
2 points from your STAMINA. You wander on. Turn
to 132.

73-74

73
The Elves look you up and down suspiciously as

you greet them. If you have the Ring of Fays, turn to
153. If not, turn to 243.

74
You edge your way along the left-hand colonnade

You are just passing the third column when a blood-
chilling wail assaults your ears. Out of the darkness
ahead of you ghostly apparitions streak towards
you like nightmarish visions from hell itself. Test
your Resolve, subtracting 1 from the total rolled. If
you succeed, turn to 8. If you fail, turn to 39.

75

75
You drive yourself onward, panting for breath.

Mbraculously, the sounds of pursuit begin to fade —
and then suddenly you burst out of the forest and
on to a starlit meadow. You hear the sound of
enraged snarling from the edge of the wood, but
whatever it is that was chasing you seems unpre-
pared to leave the trees. Heaving a sigh of relief, you
examine yourself. You have been badly lacerated by
vour headlong flight through the wood — lose 1
point from your STAMINA. If you are still alive, you
make a fresh camp some way from the wood. This
time your sleep is undisturbed, and you wake in the
morning to see the tor, pointing like a finger at the
sky, a short distance away. Turn to 216.

76

76

You have made too much noise in getting here, and
vour present whereabouts are known to Mortis; he
nas therefore sent a strong patrol to find and kill
vou. Two Wights appear behind you, and now you
must fight them before you can do anything else.
these undead beings fight without armour or
sveapons, but their taloned hands are as sharp as
swords and they relish the taste of human flesh.
You have to fight them both at the same time.

SKILL STAMINA
rirst WIGHT 8 10
Second WIGHT 9 3)

if you win, add 3 to your Alarm Value and turn to
a5:

77-78

He wakes without a sound and watches you with
eyes like glassy pebbles. ‘Well, you cur,’ you say,
glancing at the three doors, ‘which way to the lair of
your vile master?’

Fora moment he still says nothing. Then his purple-
stained lips break into a ghastly, maniacal grin and
he raises his clowning stick. You think he is about to
use ventriloguism and make the skull-head reply,
but he is not so subtle. Uttering a bleak peal of
laughter, he clouts you sharply across the face and
runs off, leaving you alone, blinded by tears of pain

You must now decide which door to take. Will it be:

The door with the snake-symbol? = Turnto172
The door with the sword-symbol? Turn to 376
The door with the tree-symbol? Turn to 100

78

You start to gather up the White Queen’s holy
objects which belong on the altar. The staff con-
tinues to drain your strength: lose 2 STAMINA
points. [f you still live, to your relief the staff stops
pulsing after a moment or two, leaving you free to
clean up the temple. As you leave, you receive the
blessing of the Goddess; add 1 to your RESOLVE.

You may now search some of the larger houses in
the village (turn to 51), if you have not already done
so. Alternatively, you can investigate the village hall
(turn to 131) or leave the village and go to the cove
where the fishing boats should be (turn to 311)

79-80

79
The village blacksmith offers his services. He looks a

little battered but seems to be the largest and most
determined of the villagers. You and he rush to the
armoury and you use the captain’s keys to unlock it.
Grabbing as many weapons as you can, you head
back and arm the villagers, Leading them up on
deck, you take the pirates completely by surprise.
The villagers fight with a ferocity born of a desire
for revenge, and soon all the pirates are killed or
captured.

The villagers treat you like a hero and the black-
smith promises they will administer ‘justice’ to the
remaining pirates. If you have met a boy called Paz
and left him in the cellar of his house, turn to 348. If
not, turn to 398.

80

The trapdoor lifts up easily. A ladder descends into
darkness. As you climb down, a voice addresses
you from the shadows below. ‘Who are you, and
what do you want?’ someone demands. Will you
give your name and assure the unknown speaker
that you come in peace (turn to 25) or carry on down
the ladder without replying (turn to 16)?

81-83

81
They nod, uninterested. There is nothing else here
for you and it is time to get on with your mission.
You decide to leave Siltport, Turn to 21.

82
Terrified out of your wits, you run for your life. Test
your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 357. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 393.

, 83

You climb still further until the stairs end at a
doorway. You reckon you cannot be much more
than two-thirds of the way up the tower — so what-
ever it is that lies beyond, it cannot be the roof. If
you open the door, turn to 245. If you go back down,
you can either go out on to the battlements (turn to
302) or retrace your steps as far as the entrance to the
inner keep (turn to 313).

Your opponents falter, heads lolling horribly to and
fro. Their jaws clack frenziedly as they recognize the
iate you have inflicted upon them; but they have no
voices with which to rail against you — nor, you are
relieved to think, with which to raise the alarm. As
their yellow bones blacken, cracks appear and a fine
erey dust pours from their gaping mouths and
empty eye-sockets. A stench of decay fills the room
momentarily, then the ash into which they have
decomposed falls softly to the floor.

Now it is time for you to be on your way. If you
decide to go up the stairs, turn to 163. If you want to
investigate the locked door first, turn to 343.

85
By the time you reach the outskirts of Port Borgos it
is late afternoon. It is unnaturally quiet here and no
smoke rises from the chimneys of the dwellings.
Not a soul stirs. There is a pathway down to the
beach near by. Ahead, the gates of Borgos lie splin-
tered and broken. To the east, the road winds on,
following the River Scort up into the hills and thence
to Bloodrise Keep. Will you now enter Borgos (turn
to 30), take the path to the beach (turn to 193), or
camp out here and head for Bloodrise Keep tomor-
row morning (turn to 329)?

86-88

86

Downstairs, you find a cellar where the boy must
have been hiding, but nothing else of interest. You
may now search the bungalow (turn to 71) or the
stables (turn to 291), if you have not already done
so. Alternatively you can investigate the temple
(turn to 171) or the village hall (turn to 131}; or you
can leave the village and go to the cove where the
lishing boats should be (turn to 311),

87
‘You have nothing to trade. It's simple then: 35 Gold
Pieces or the deal’s off,’ he says rudely. Will you pay
Over the gold for the potion, if you have that much
(turn to 225), attack him and try to take the potion
from him (turn to 200) or decline his offer and leave
Benari (turn to 116)?

88
Mortis gives vent to a.shout of rage as he recognizes
the weapon that held him helpless for so many long
centuries past. Then his cry turns into a groan of
despair as the ivory spear slices through his breast-
plate, transfixing him atthe very moment of sunset.
Clouds of noxious vapour flood from his cape,
making you choke. Shielding your face, you are
forced to turn away, and so you never see what fate
you have meted out to the Lich-Lord, You catch
only a single glimpse of his face at the moment of his
final, true death — a look of such terror and loneli-
ness that you will carry it to your own grave. When
you look back, there is only a wisp of grey mist anda

89

pervading stench of corruption to show where your
enemy fell. Even the spear has gone.

You return to the castle, to find it littered with
dodies already in a state of advanced decay: the
wgions of Mortis have died with their tyrannical
master. When you free the castellan from the
dungeons below the keep, he looks at you and
knows at once that you have faced and defeated a
monstrous evil, for your hair has turned stark
white. Turn to 400.

89

You have scarcely taken a couple of steps before
something smashes into your back, something
sharp and tearing. Deduct 4 points from your
STAMINA. If you are still alive, you turn to face
whatever has attacked you - and your heart nearly
stops. An unutterably hideous thing stands there,
all scales and claws; you barely have time to make
out its body, however, for its face is so horrifying
that it almost drives you insane. Screaming, you
turn to flee

After a while you manage to recover, but now you
are always glancing over your shoulder, forever
unsure whether you are still being stalked. Lose 2

g0—92

RESOLVE points permanently. You find yourself
back at the gates of Borgos. Will you enter Port
Borgos (turn to 30), or camp out here for the night
and make for Bloodrise Keep tomorrow morning
(turn to 329)?

go
You manage to escape under a hail of arrows, but
not before one of them has grazed your leg. Deduct
1 point from your STAMINA. If you survive, you are
forced to flee Keladon, and you watch helplessly as
the Merciless puts out to sea with its cargo of inno-
cent villagers. Cursing the pirate scum, you turn
away dejectedly, Turn to 186.

g1
As you are walking through the village, you notice a
dash of colour on the horizon. You look out to sea, A
large galley, sleek and low, with many banks of oars
and black sails with a crimson skull embossed upon
them, is passing by the headland where what re-
mains of Keladon stands. You recognize a ship of
the Chaos fleet. You can even make out its name,
painted in large red letters on the bow — the Merci-
less. Its prow is a huge iron ram, fashioned to look
like a scimitar, You decide to go down to the cove
where the fishing boats should be. Turn to 391.

g2
The Thrasher falls at last. After a brief rest, you take
its head as a trophy and to prove to the villagers that
you have carried out your task. The villagers are

92

overjoyed to see you, and their expressions of
astonishment and joy are quite comical; clearly,
most had not expected you to return. Belar thanks
vou gravely and hands over the promised 50 Gold
Pieces (note the sum on your Adventure Sheet}. He
declares the morrow to be a day of feasting and
celebration and invites you to attend as guest of
honour, But you have a mission to complete,
Politely declining their offer, you request that a
guide be found to lead you to the tomb of Mortis.
The villagers look away, shuffling their feet, and
some of them whistle absent-mindedly. |

Fortunately, Belar berates them as ungrateful cow-
ards and eventually a thin, wiry man steps forward,
‘All right, I’ lead you to the tomb,’ he says. Belar

93-94

tells you his name is Khiro, and that he is their best
hunter. To you, however, he looks a really shady
character ~ still, he’s all you’ve got. After a quick
meal at the headman’s table (you may restore up to 2
lost STAMINA points) Khiro leads you up into the
hills. Turn to 352.

93
You activate the ring and Chaideshu’s grizzled face

appears in your mind, You relate recent events to
him. “You have done well,’ he says, ‘and J am glad
you have reported in, for I have important news for
you. Through our spy network we have heard thata
pirate ship has recently left Bloodrise Keep with
some important papers. Apparently it is to report
back to the Chaos fleet, but not before it has raided
the shores of Stayng. We guess that it will attack
Keladon. If you have the time, go there and see
what you can do to help the villagers. You may also
be able to pick up some information that will prove
useful in completing your mission. Thank you, and
good luck.’ Your mental connection with the gen-
eral is cut off. Cross off a charge of the ring on your
Adventure Sheet. Will you now set off northwards on
the road to Port Borgos (turn to 46) or go southeast
towards Shamdabag Wood and then on to the
village of Keladon (turn to 325)?

94
Darkness falls. You make camp just off the road

in readiness for any trouble. However, the night
passes uneventfully and you get a good rest (restore

94

slost STAMINA points). The next day you leave the
‘ls behind you, heading for the inn that is marked
o your map.

is late afternoon by the time you arrive at a
Sree-way crossroads. Aninn stands at the junction
@ the roads. As you near it, you see that it is called
= Down among the Dead Men - doubtless in-
tended as a wry joke in times gone by, for the inn
wrerlooks the cemetery. Nowadays, the name is
#so a horrible irony, a constant reminder of the
errible events which have befallen the people of
Stayng-. As you near the inn, you see a sign outside
the cemetery: ‘STAYNG CEMETERY’ — but the
word ‘Stayng’ has been crossed out and ‘Vampire’
substituted in a barely legible scrawl. Graffiti have
Seen daubed in a rust-coloured substance over the
seremonial granite portal of the cemetery. You can
make out ‘Bloodfang Rules OK’ in another spidery
scrawl. But for the lonesome cawing of some bird far
everhead and the faint sounds of activity inside the
man, it is very quiet here. Untended fields of corn
Stretch out behind the inn and the sun beats
sown... ,

onsulting your map again, you now have a choice
© routes: will you enter the inn first (turn to 5), or
set off and follow the road south towards Shamda-
bag Wood and thence on to the village of Keladon
@turn to 325), or take the road west towards Port
Sergos (turn to 46)?

=

95

95
A few dry branches set the fire well and truly ablaze

You plant a couple of flaming torches to either side
of you and stand, your back to the fire and sword
drawn, awaiting whatever is coming at you out of
the night, The howling stops. In the darkness ahead
you can make out several glowing pinpricks of
reddish light: your would-be assailants. Then,
snarling, they burst out of the shadows and pause,
unsure about the flames. There are three of them,
and at first glance they look like over-large timber
wolves. But they have long, lash-like tails lined with
wicked-looking blades of horn, and their eyes are
bright with cunning. They are Whipperwolves and
you must fight them. Because of the position you
have taken up by the fire, they have to come at you
one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA

First WHIPPERWOLF 7 8
Second WHIPPERWOLF 8 7
Third WHIPPERWOLF 8 9

If you roll 11 or 12 for a Whipperwolf’s Attack
Round, whether or not you beat its score, it lashes
you with its tail for 1 point of damage,

If you win, turn to 196

96-97

96

Holding up the ring, you think of the general

Presently his grizzled face appears in your mind’s
eye. “You wish to report?’ he says, his voice a tickle
in your brain, You tell him about recent events and
ask what he knows of the Finger. ‘Never heard of it,’
he growls. ‘Now get on with your mission and stop
wasting my time — and, more importantly, stop
using up the charges of the ring!’ His face abruptly
disappears from your mind. Remember to cross off
one of the ring’s charges on your Adventure Sheet

There is nothing more to be done, so you leave the
temple. Turn to 382.

97

The unfortunate blacksmith is dragged out. ‘And
now for our next bout, lads,’ bellows the bos’n, ‘the
one you have all been waiting for since we left home
~ Baracas versus Grom the Ogre!’ A hulking great
brute, larger than Baracas and witha foully ugly face
and arms like tree trunks, lumbers out through the
doors at the back. Although bigger and heavier, the
Ogre is fatter and less fit-looking, All around you
pirates are laying bets on the bout. If you wish to
place a bet, turn to 137. If not, turn to 277.

98-100

98

The knights falter when they hear the words of the
charm, Dropping their swords, they press their
skeletal hands to their heads as wispy smoke curls
from their dry, cobweb-thin flesh, heads lolling
horribly to and fro. As their yellow bones tum black,
cracks appear and a fine grey dust pours from their
gaping mouths and empty eye-sockets. A stench of
decay billows along the gallery; then the ash into
which they have decomposed falls softly to the
floor. Turn to 385

99
This evil pirate must have slain many innocents

before without displaying a glimmer of mercy or
remorse. He deserves to die, you think to yourself,
One blow makes the world a safer place. Turn to

194.

100
The door opens without setting off any traps. You
have made the right choice, it seems. If this was the
tirst door you tried, regain 1 LUCK point.

Beyond the door, a passage disappears into cob-
webby gloom. Steeling your nerves, you set off
along it. Turn to 330.

101-103

101
You concentrate on the ring, holding the image of
the general in your mind. Cross off one of the ring’s
three charges on your Adventure Sheet. A flickering
image of the old veteran’s grizzled visage appears in
your mind and a voice speaks inside your head.
‘Ah, a report. Where are you and what have you
found, young warrior?’ he asks.

You tell him that you have arrived safely and are
now outside Siltport ready to undertake the quest.

‘What?’ bellows Chaideshu. “You wasted a charge
of the ring just to tell me you have arrived? You
imbecile! Well, since you're here, so to speak, you
must travel north and try to find the tomb of Mortis.
There you may also find the ancient weapon that
slew him. Now get on with it - and don’t waste my
time with trifling reports!” Then contact is broken.
Will you head north towards Menela (turn to 181) or
south through the hills (turn to 61)?

102
You hurl some of your rations into the middle of the
running wolfpack. Instantly they halt and begin
tearing at the food and at one another in their haste
to gorge themselves. The Centaur comes to a stop,
panting. Turn to 27.

103
When you are about half-way across, the floor be-
neath your feet suddenly gives way. A pit trap! Test
your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 238. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 207.

104-106

104
Your skeletal opponents fought without uttering
any of the sanguine oaths and battle-cries beloved of
ving warriors. Nevertheless, each time your
swords met, a harsh clang echoed in the shadow-
draped upper reaches of the tower. Add 5 to your
Alarm Value. Now you can either head up the stairs
{turn to 163) or go down to the padlocked door you
noticed earlier (turn to 343)

105
The merchant has two things which may be of
mterest to you: a pack of three Provisions, which he
will sell you for 15 Gold Pieces, and a Potion of .
Skill (which will increase your SKILL by 1 point
permanently) costing 50 Gold Pieces. You may
purchase one or both if you have enough gold.

The merchant then points at a man who has moved
to the centre of the clearing by the fire. ‘Ah, Garond
is to sing for us.’ The man holds a lute and is clearly a
bard. Will you stay to listen to his song (turn to 333)
or, if you think you have already wasted enough
time, do you prefer to leave the clearing and carry
on towards Keladon (turn to 165)?

106
The door slams behind you, an instant before the
undead crossbowmen release their bolts. You
hear their volley tear into the wood, and several
lethal metal tips protrude from the door — having
penetrated oak three finger widths thick!

107~108

You race down the stairs before your foes can get the
door open. Knowing they will be hot on your trail,
you reach the landing and fling open the door
leading to the battlements. Add 3 to your Alarm
Value and turn to 302.

107
She smiles sadly. ‘I had thought you a warrior of
greater metUe. Still, I will pray you succeed in your
mission.’ She turns and leaves.

The next day dawns and you go downstairs. The
same crowd are there, packing and readying them-
selves for the day’s journey. The innkeeper says
that the person in black left at dawn. You notice that
one of the farmers is missing; the other two look
downcast and frightened. You decide to get on with
your journey. Will you head northeast towards Port
Borgos (turn to 46) or south towards Shamdabag
Wood (turn to 325)?

108
Elindora stares deeply into your eyes, and you feeia
hypnotic trance creeping over you. You snap out
of it, moments later, with no memory of what
happened. However, now you feel more deter-
mined and vigorous, Add 1 to your RESOLVE
permanently.

The cemetery divides up into roughly four main
areas which you can search, Will you go to the
northwest corner (turn to 26g), the southwest cor-
ner (turn to 249), the northeast corner (turn to 1491
or the southeast corner (turn to 209)?

109

109
You turn round - and your heart nearly stops. An
unutterably hideous thing stands there, all scales
and claws; you barely have time to make out its
body, however, for its face is so demonic, so horrify-
ing, that you are driven almost insane. Screaming,
you turn and flee. Aftera while you recover, but you
are always glancing over your shoulder, forever
worried that you are still being stalked. Lose 2
RESOLVE points permanently.

You find yourself back at the gates of Port Borgos at
last. Will you enter Borgos (turn to 30), or spend
the night out here and head for Bloodrise Keep
tomorrow morning (turn to 329)?

110-113

110

You have only one chance. You draw back the spear
and hurl it with all your might, Roll two dice — you
need to score less than or equal to your SKILL in
order to hit Kandogor. If you succeed, turn to 304. If
you miss, turn to 155.

111
A burning timber strikes you a glancing blow just as
vou reach the door; deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA, If youare still alive, you have the misfor-
tune to run into the two pirates as you leap out of the
stable. They step back in surprise for a moment
before snarling unpleasantly, Turn to 6.

112
You climb up into the hills. They rise steeply sky-
ward, a jumble of rocky crags and treacherous
ravines. Soon you are hopelessly lost. Test your Luck.
If you are Lucky, turn to 132. If you are Unlucky,
turn to 72

113
You search the northwest part of the graveyard,
once again to no avail. Time trickles on and now it is
late afternoon. Elindora is becoming visibly agit-
ated. ‘We must find them today — tonight they will
be alerted and will seek us out. We cannot afford to
delay until another day!’ Will you search the north-
east corner (turn to 60) or the southwest (turn to
170)?

114-117

114

You unlock all the prisoners’ chains and lead them
on deck. But without weapons the villagers are
easily overwhelmed by the armed and experienced
pirates. In the ensuing struggle you decide you have
no choice but to leave the prisoners to their fate. You
can do nothing now but try to get away — you leap
over the side and swim to the shore. Racing up the
beach, you are pursued by several pirates, some
armed with bows. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to go. [f you are Unlucky, turn to 59.

115
You must fight the Skull Beast.

SKULL BEAST SKILLQ

The bony outer shell of the Skuil Beast is so hard that
you do only 1 point of damage to its STAMINA when
you hit it, and you cannot use LUCK to increase
damage. Even if you are able to use the Spear of
Qadarnai, it will not do double damage to the Skull
Beast. If you win, turn to 267.

STAMINA 10

116
From Benari you can head northeast to Port Borgos
(turn to 85) or eastwards across country to the site of
the ancient battle marked on your map (turn to 370).

117
Forcing your rising panic down, you manage to
resist the urge to flee blindly. Breaking the Zombie’s
gnp is not difficult, for it has been exposed to wind,

118-119

rain and, more importantly, sunlight. By now it is
very weak and you are able to dispatch it quickly.
All that you find lying on the floor of the cage is a
heavy iron mace (note it on your Adventure Sheet if
you take it). Will you continue on towards Borgos
(turn to 85) or visit the village of Benari first (turn to
223)?

118
Screaming a war-cry, you charge towards the sha-
man. He whirls in horror but just has time to reach
into his pouch, pull out a small ball and throw it at
you. Roll 2 dice. Lf the total rolled is less than or
equal to your SKILL, turn to 215. Ifit is greater than
your SKILL, turn to 158.

119

Getting across the poop deck unseen, you find a
cabin door with a plaque above it saying: ‘Captain
Jarmesh — disturb only with good reason’. You can
hear someone mumbling on the other side, but you
cannot detect a second voice. It appears that the
captain is talking to himself. Will you burst in and
try to surprise him (turn to 14) or knock on the door
and say, ‘Captain, a message from the two Chaos
Knights’ (turn to 187)?

120

120

You fall under a strange spell, a kind of mental
haziness. Lotmora is not yet strong enough to en-
slave your will, but you find yourself sluggish and
indecisive. Deduct 2 SKILL points (you may how-
ever restore them if you survive the battle), Outside
the sun is setting, yet its faint rays still caress the
cemetery and night has not quite fallen. Lady Lot-
mora’s powers are not at their height ~ but you will
have to be quick, for each minute that passes in-
creases her strength. She screams in animal rage.
She and her coven advance to the attack, fangs
bared and hands that end in blackened talons ready
to tear at you. Elindora takes on two of the Vampires
— you must fight Lady Lotmora and the other two

They come at you all together

SKILL STAMINA

First VAMPIRE 5 5
second VAMPIRE 5 5
LADY LOTMORA 9 11

Remember: if you have the Spear of Qadarnai, it will
do double damage against them. Whenever Lot-
mora hits you, roll another die; on a result of 1 or 2,
her fangs pierce your skin and you must lose 1
SKILL point (you may however restore any lost
SKILL points after you win), You have nine Attack
Rounds in which to defeat them. If any are left after
nine Rounds, turn to 363. If you manage to defeat
them all, turn to 386.

121-122

121
Ina low whisper, you tell the sailor of your intention
to slay Mortis, free the island of the Undead who
terrorize it, and thus rob the Chaos pirates of the ally
they need to destroy the Delphic Islands. He is
overjoyed at this news, and promptly tells everyone
present about your mission, Soon they are all
buying you drinks and wishing you luck, You
spend a pleasant evening quaffing ale and impress-
ing the locals. You do notice a shifty-looking indi-
vidual leaving surreptitiously, but you soon forget
him as another round of drinks is brought, Note
down the word ‘PIRATE’ on your Adventure Sheet

The next day, you decide to get on with your
mission and leave Siltport. Turn to 21.

122

The young boy looks up in surprise as you step out
of the shadows before him. For a moment, his face
grimaces in fear but then he smiles. “You’re not one
of those living dead creatures, are you?’ he asks ina
voice filled with hope and fear.

‘I certainly am not,’ you reply. ‘In fact I have come
here to destroy all the Undead, including their evil
master, Lord Mortis.’ ‘

You wonder how the boy has managed to survive in
this terrible place. He looks around and, beckoning
furtively, ushers you into the stable. ‘We can talk
safely in here,’ he says. “The castle is crawling with
Mortis’s minions. When the castle fell, he put most

123-124

of his captives to death and then brought them back
from the grave as Zombies. Just a few he kept alive
for duties during the day — since Zombies have no
minds for anything other than killing. I was spared
so as to groom and feed these horses, which will be
provided for the Chaos pirates when their ships
drop anchor here next month; Mortis has made a
pact with them, He’ll leave me unharmed for as long
as he needs a stableboy, but my days are numbered.
AtnightI have to lock myself in here, and the horses
and I sleep a sleep of living nightmares. I will do
everything I can to help you destroy Mortis and his
Zombie slaves.’ Will you ask the boy about the
barracks on the other side of the courtyard (turn to
49) or about the Great Keep itself (turn to 210)?

323
You now have the Charm of Disruption. As Iola told
you, you can use it once and only once, so choose
your moment wisely. When you decide to invoke
the Charm, note the number of the paragraph you
are reading at the time, then turn to 253, Now turn
to 31

124
You walk the length of the battlements, enjoying
the momentary respite from thoughts of nightmare
and death that a warm late-afternoon breeze gives
you. About half-way along, you come across a
battered siege-tower that has been left leaning
against the wall. Obviously it was used by Mortis‘s
soldiers in the final assault on the keep and, so

125

confident is the Lich-Lord of his impregnability,
that he has not yet ordered it removed. You eye it
dubiously. It is a makeshift structure of green-
stained wooden beams, held together with thongs
of rotting hide. Perhaps it was adequate for the
skeletal troops of Mortis’s legion to climb up, but
you are far from sure that it could support your own
weight.

If you decide to risk it, you can climb down to
the ground outside the castle walls (turn to 358).
Alternatively, you can go through the door to the
east tower and ascend still further (turn to 377).

125
This time he drops his sword and grovels on the
ground before you. Snivelling, he begs for mercy.
Will you finish him off now (turn to 99) or spare his
hfe (turn to 254)?

126-127

126

You see the general's leathery old features in your
mind’s eye. He listens to your report and then
ponders for a moment. ‘The stream that fills the
moat has been blocked off because Mortis’s undead
legions would have difficulty crossing running
water,’ you hear him say. ‘If enough of the castel-
lan’s men are still alive and if you can find and free
them, they may be able to help you destroy the dam
and trap the Undead in the keep. Act quickly,
however. Daylight inhibits our enemy’s powers,
but itis only a few hours till nightfall.’

The sensation of his presence departs from your
mind. Cross off one charge from the Ring of Com-
muning (if you have now used it three times, it is
useless and must be discarded), You make your way
to the gatehouse. Turn to 228.

127
Garond acknowledges your compliments to him on
his singing and he seems quite happy to chat with
you. Will you ask him about the Charm of Unbind-
ing (turn to 43}, the Finger of Lhyss (turn to 268), or
the ivory spear wielded by the hero Qadarnai (turn
to 218)?

128-129

128
The left-hand door leads into a corridor running
through the wall. Several doors line each side of the
cool, dusty passageway ahead of you. At the farend
it fades into gloom — but at least it appears to be
deserted, Will you walk on (turn te 203) or head
back to the entrance (turn to 313)?

129

‘As you wish,” she says, and shrugs her shoulders,
seemingly indifferent. ‘It is time to begin. We must
start Our search for the crypt of Lady Lotmora.’
There are roughly four main areas of the cemetery
that you can search. Will you investigate the narth-
west comer (turn to 269), the southwest corner (turn
te 249}, the northeast corner (turn to 149) or the
southeast corner (turn to 209)?

130-132

130
His eyes light up. ‘I'll take either the amulet or the
gold,’ he says. ‘Believe me, this potion is well worth
having!’

Will you give him the amulet (turn to 307), pay him

35 Gold Pieces for the potion, if you have that much
‘urn to 225), attack him and try to take the potion
turn to 200) or decline his offer and leave Benari
turn to 116)?

131
if vou have already searched all the places of interest
m Keladon, turn to 91. If you have not yet searched
all these places, turn to 37.

132
After a day or two of fruitless wandering, you
emerge from the hills on to the road, just south of
Menela, You cannot go back into the hills, for it is
so dangerous —and the village won't welcome you.
you have no choice but to go back past Siltport, and
then follow the road south, Turn to 3.

133-134

133

You go to the end of the gallery and see that it ts
open along one side; it overlooks a great high-
raftered hall where once the soldiers who defended
the castle would have gathered. Now, huddled on
the benches below, are a host of undead knights
sitting in macabre silence, coal-black cloaks
wrapped round them like bats’ wings, tarnished
goblets clutched in their pale hands. You reckon
there must be two hundred of them at least. These
must be the Knights of Alptraum, Lord Mortis’s
reared veteran guards. Doubtless they are shelter-
ing here from the sunlight, awaiting the kiss of the
night wind to restore their dark energies.

At the far end of the gallery you can just make outa
doorway, barely visible in the gloom. You can walk
along the gallery to it, but you run the risk of making
2 noise that will attract the attention of the grisly
creatures seated in the hall below. If you decide to
risk it, turn to 29. Otherwise, you must climb further
up the spiral] stairs towards the top of the tower;
turn to 377.

134
From your adventure at the altar to Lyhss, you

know that you have to blow the whistle at the Finger
of Lhyss ‘to gain great power’. If, as seems likely,
Whistlestone Tor is indeed the Finger of Lhyss, then
it might be worth a detour. If you set off for the tor,
turn to 1g. If you decide to go straight to Keladon,
turn to 165.

135-138

135
You walk over and sit at the farmers’ table. They
welcome you grudgingly — and suspiciously. Will
you ask them about the graffiti at the cemetery (turn
to 183) or about the black-robed figure who sits in
the corner (turn to 213)?

136

You run on, but the source of the howling is gaining
on you. Something smashes into your shin and you
fall, face down, on to the forest floor with a crash,
momentarily stunned, There is a sudden snarling
sound and a creature of some sort slams on to your
back with bone-crushing force, biting and ripping at
your defenceless back. Your adventure ends here.

137
The odds are evens on both Baracas and Grom - that
is, you will get back twice what you bet if you win
Decide how many Gold Pieces you wish to bet, and
cross them off your Adventure Sheet. Turn to 387 if
you bet on Grom. Turn to 248 if you bet on Baracas.

138
Gingerly, you edge along the right-hand wall. As
you pass each column, you set off a trap, so that you
are assailed by various mechanical sword-, axe- and
spear-thrusts. You must parry them all successfully
in order to reach the altar. Roll two dice. If the result
is less than or equal to your SKILL, turn to 189. If the
total is greater than your SKILL, turn to 166.

139-141
139
Which of the following will you use?
The Ivory Spear of Qadarnai? Turn to 110
A puffbalt Turn to 346
The Ring of Fays Turn to 270

lf you don’t have any of these, you stand for a
moment in dangerous indecision ~ turn to 155.

140
You pace quietly down the long, dark and dank
corridor. Soon it begins to bend around to the left.
Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 164, If you
are Unlucky, turn to 288.

141
The road leads you past an old quarry, long disused,
which has been dug out of the foothills. You notice
that part of one of the quarry rock-faces has
crumbled away, revealing a fissure-like cave en-
trance. If you wish to enter this cave, turn to 17. To
ignore the distraction and press on, turn to 94.

142

142
As you step forward to cut the cage down, the crows
shriek madly and swoop down to peck and claw at
you with razor-sharp beaks and talons. You must
fight them off; treat them as one opponent

A MURDER OF CROWS © skILL7 STAMINAG

If you win, turn to 237.

143

143

You hare off down the left-hand tunnel. After only a
minute or so, you see a light bobbing at the end and,
2p ahead, Hlassamon hobbling along as fast as he
can. You catch up with him easily, and he falls to his
xnees. ‘Take it, take it,’ he stutters. Just spare my
afe!’ You take the vial of potion and, drinking it, find
yourself now more determined, able to face any
horror. Note that on the next two occasions when
you are asked to Test your Resolve you will automati-
cally succeed and need not roll the dice (however,
your RESOLVE will not be increased on these two
occasions). Hlassamon smiles weakly at you, but
you assure him you have no intention of killing him;
it’s just that you had to have the potion to aid you in
your quest. While you are explaining this to him, he
is already walking backwards, away from you, and
then he turns and flees. Pressing on, you come
eventually to a small hole, hidden by a bush, that
leads into the open air. You emerge on a small hill
just outside the village. Thanking the Goddess of
Luck, you decide itis high time you left Benari. Turn
to 116.

144-145

144

You stand by the gatehouse and look across the
Dailey towards the walls enclosing the inner keep,
where twin towers stand like grim granite sentinels
against the cloudless blue sky. Smouldering in the
sultry heat of the afternoon, the packed earth of the
courtyard throws back a fierce glare from the sun
that makes you squint. The outer wall casts a block
of shadow along the southern perimeter of the
courtyard. If you want to use the shadows as cover
70 reach the stables to your left, turn to g. If you
prefer to make for the barracks to your right, turn to
42. If you are prepared to stride across the middle of
the courtyard and enter the inner keep, turn to 379.

445
Will you use:
The lvory Spear of Qadarnai? Turn to 234
The Ring of Fays? Turn to 4
The Charm of Disruption? Turn to 338

if you have none of these, indecision makes you
nesitate —- and Mortis smites you a splintering blow
with his flanged mace, Deduct 3 points from your
STAMINA and (if you are still alive) return to 250 to
zive battle.

146-147

146

- As you depart, the castellan calls after you ina voice
made whisper-faint by fatigue and pain: ‘Mortis has
built a dam to block the stream feeding the moat and
make it stagnant; he boasted of his plans to me. His
undead troops can cross water that is stagnant. If
you can smash the dam, fresh water will once again
flow down around the castle - running water that
will wash away the infection of necromantic magic—
and his legion will be trapped within ’

Looking up the spiral well of the stairs, you see that
the beam of sunlight above is now slanting up,
indicating that the sun must be sinking close to the
horizon. Pausing only to reassure the castellan that
you will return, you hurry back up the stairs. You
can now either ascend the tower (turn to 163) or, if
you think you have any means of destroying the
dam, you can head back outside the castle (turn to

396).

147
Stark horror rises like bile in your gorge, but you

manage to retain an icy, rigid calm as you prepare
to fight the three grisly figures. Add 1 to your
RESOLVE.

While you are engaged in close combat with one of
the undead archers, the others will try to shoot
arrows at you. To determine whether an arrow hits
or not, each Attack Round roll two dice for each
archer shooting. A roll of 7 or below means that you
have been hit: deduct 1 point from your STAMINA.

148

However, a roll of 8 or above means that the shot
has hit the undead creature that you are fighting,
and it loses 1 STAMINA point

SKILL STAMINA
First
UNDEAD ARCHER 7 5
Second
UNDEAD ARCHER 7 4
Third
UNDEAD ARCHER 7 4

If you defeat them all within eight Attack Rounds,
turn to 365. If you are still fighting after this time,
turn to 247.

148

You manage to break out of the clutches of the
Werewight before Mortis’s servants can encircle
you. Scrambling backwards, you throw open the
door and retreat into the courtyard. The Vampires
cannot pursue you there, for the sun would shrivel
their stolen beauty and they would become the dead
things they truly are. The Werewight also seems to
shun the daylight — though perhaps it simply has no
wish to feel the bite of your sword again. It burks just
at the threshold of the barracks, giving vent to
spine-chilling howls that resound eerily across the
empty, sunlit courtyard. Add 4 to your Alarm Value.
You must hurry away from here before Mortis sends
his guards to investigate; you race across the court-
yard towards the huge doorway that leads to the
inner keep, Turn to 379.

“4

149
You stumble across the entrance to an ornate crypt
in the northeast corner of the cemetery. Elated.
Elindora tells you it is the tomb of Lady Lotmora

and, full of trepidation, you both descend into the

yawning darkness of the portal. Below, you find

five open coffins and, further back, a large stone

sarcophagus. All are open and seem to be inhabited
by sleeping people — or so you think until you see
their deathly white faces, their pointed white fangs
jutting over ruby-red lips, and their taloned hands
crossed over cold, unmoving breasts. Vampires!

With a grim face you set about the unwelcome task

of driving wooden stakes through their hearts. In
full daylight these creatures of evil are helpless -

even Lady Lotmora, though at the last moment her

eyes flick open. Elindora is satisfied: you have de-
stroyed all the Vampires. Gain 1 RESOLVE and tum
to 386

150

150

The Vampires’ powers of hypnosis seem strangely
meffective; outside, the sun is setting, yet its faint
rays still caress the cemetery and it is not yet quite

dusk. Lady Lotmora’s powers are not at their full
strength, but you will have to be quick, for each

minute that passes increases her strength. She
screams in bloody rage as she and her coven ad-

varce to the attack, fangs bared and hands that end

m blackened talons ready to rend you. Elindora
takes on two of the Vampires; you must fight Lady

Lotmora and the other two. They come at you all at

the same time.

SKILL STAMINA
First VAMPIRE 5 5
Second VAMPIRE 5 5
LADY LOTMORA ) 11

Remember: if you have the Spear of Qadarnai, it will
«teak double damage against them. Whenever Lot-
mora hits you, roll another die; on a result of 1 or 2,
she bites you and you lose 1 SKILL point (you may
however restore any lost SKILL points after you
win). You have nine Attack Rounds in which to
defeat them all. If any are left after nme Rounds,
turn to 363. If you manage to defeat them in time,
turn to 386.

151-152

151

You lead Paz out of the cellar and into the open. Just
as you round the corner of the house you spot a
patrol and dodge back out of sight. However, Paz’s
nerve breaks at once; he gives a scream of fear and
runs for his life towards the village gate. The two
pirates give a whoop of delight and set off after him,
but then they see you, stop and draw ther
weapons. One is a wiry whippet of a man, scabby
and vicious-looking, the other a grinning, ember-
eyed Hobgoblin. They wield scimitars and carry
light wooden bucklers. Gnmly they advance to-
wards you. You must fight them both at the same
time.

SKILL STAMINA
First

CHAOS PIRATE 6 7
Second

CHAOS PIRATE 8 6

If you win, turn to 231

152
The Thrasher has swept you off your feet with its
mace-like tail. Deduct 2 points from your STAMINA.
You may use LUCK in the normal way to try and
reduce this. If you are still alive, return to 192 and
continue the fight. os

253

153

One of the Elves recognizes the Ring of Fays on your
finger. ‘Ah, you must be the one Elindora told us of!"
exclaims the Elf. “Welcome to Shamdabag Wood,
ourhome. [am Pelagon the Speaker. You have done
us a great service, for Elindora could not have
completed her task without your aid. We are in your
debt.’

You mumble something like ‘It was the least I could
do.’

“You acted nobly, and we feel you should be re-
warded further,’ says Pelagon. He motions to one of
his companions, who takes a round shield that had
been slung on his back. It is of polished silver and is
highly reflective. ‘This may prove useful in your
quest. It is of vital importance to us all that you
succeed. Please take it as a gift.” He hands you the
shield (note that you have the Polished Shield on
your Adventure Sheet). As the Undead hate to see
themselves reflected, whenever you are in combat
with an undead creature and you have this Shield,
deduct 1 from your opponent’s SKILL. However,
you may perform this action on only one Undead at
atime.

Then one of the Elves points to a man who has
moved to the centre of the clearing and is standing
beside the fire. ‘Ah, Garond is to sing for us,’ says
Pelagon. The man holds a lute and is clearly a bard.
Will you stay to listen to his song (turn to 333) or, if
you think you have already wasted enough time, do

154-156

you leave the clearing and carry on towards
Keladon (turn to 165)?

154
You cough and gag as the liquid burns your throat.
You have been poisoned; deduct 4 points from your
STAMINA. If you are still alive, return to the
paragraph whose number you noted.

155
Kandogor utters a mad shriek of laughter as he
releases the catch on the ballista. You are overcome
with raw hatred for the traitor: you'll soon wipe that
grin —

The thought is cut off as the bolt strikes you in the
chest. You stare at itin astonishment for an instant.
then clutch feebly at the shaft and pitch forward inte
darkness. Your adventure ends in failure.

156

The first farmer snatches up the pieces of gold (cross
them off your Adventure Sheet) and leans forward te
whisper conspiratonially in your ear. The other twe
farmers look plainly terrified. ‘Bloodfang is the
name we give to the hideous creature that stalks the
living from its lair in the cemetery. Some of us have
been disappearing lately,’ mumbles the farmer.
Now will you talk to the innkeeper (turn to 34) or to
the merchant (turn to 64) or, if you have done all the
talking you wish to do, turn to 273.

157-159

457
tou grip the spear and turn to smite whatever is
Sehind you. Turn to 109.

158
You try to knock the ball out of the air but miss by a

mule. The ball strikes you on the chest and then

explodes with aloud bang, hurling you through the
ar. Deduct 4 points from your STAMINA. If you are
snll alive, you stagger to your feet, to find the
shaman standing before you; he is wielding an
wonshod staff covered in strange runes. Turn to 58.

159
Managing to break away from the battle before one
of the skeletons can circle around and attack you

trom behind, you race up the stairs two ata time.

Reaching a landing at the top of the next flight, you
spy a rack full of polearms standing beside the
stairs. You glance back to see your pursuers not far
Sehind you, clambering up the stairs with their
antique swords raised to strike. Though only a dim
glimmer of reason serves them, they can see that

you are tired and lack the strength to flee any
further...

You do not have to. Putting your shoulder against
the rack of weapons, you heave and push it over. As
K falls, the skeletons come to a halt and start to
retreat, but they are too slow. A dozen heavy-
bladed polearms crash into them, snapping their

160-162

old bones like twigs and carrying them down the
stairs, to land in a broken tangle at the bottom. The
crash echoes up the tower, and you fight downs
surge of panic as you realize this has almost cer
tainly alerted more of Mortis’s guards. Add 7 t
your Alarm Value and turn to 239.

160
You leap out, screaming a war-cry. The Skull Beast
shrieks in rage and comes at you, flailing its
tentacle-like tongues, If you have been to Benarm
and spoken with its chief, Morlak, turn to 5
Otherwise, turn to 115.

161
You charge off at full speed down the pass, The
ambushers yell in rage, but by the time they have
made it down to the path, you are long gone.
‘Discretion is the better part of valour,’ you think
smugly to yourself.

Soon the road leads downwards, east and out of the
hills. Turn to 141.

162

Holding the torch aloft, you set off down the left-
hand tunnel. After only a few minutes you can
make out light at the end of the tunnel. Running on,
you find a small hole, hidden by a bush, that leads
into the open air. You emerge on a small hill just
outside the village. Thanking the Goddess of Luck,
you decide it is time you left Benari. Turn to 116

163-165

163
You climb the stairs as far as a landing. From here,
through an arch you can see a long gallery, and the
spiral stairway continues up into the topmost cham-
bers of the tower. As you take a step back, debating
which route to take, you stumble into a rack of
weapons at the side of the landing, Several of the
polearms are dislodged and, though you manage to
catch them all, the disturbance sends a clatter
echoing up the bare walls of the tower. Turn to 239.

164

The sound of slow, shuffling feet reaches your ears
You quickly wriggle into a narrow recess in the side
of the corridor and conceal yourself in the shadows.
A patrol of two Undead pass by; they reek of death,
their flesh is a scabrous grey colour and their eyes
are twin orbs of blank nothingness. Reduce your
Alarm Value by 1. When they are out of sight, you
come out of hiding and continue along the corridor.
Turn to 324.

165
At last you can see the village of Keladon ahead.
However, everything seems strangely quiet, save
for the occasional faint sound of shouting. Plumes
of black smoke spiral skyward from some areas of
the village: it appears to be on fire. Black crow-like
birds circle in the air, cawing desolately. As you
draw nearer, no one comes out to challenge you and
then you notice a couple of bodies by the wooden
gate, slumped on the ground. The road branches

166-167

here: one way leads to the village, the other down ta
the cove where Keladon’s fishing vessels are usually
tethered, Will you enter the village (turn to 11), or
head for the cove to see if there is anyone at the
quayside (turn to 383)?

166
Unfortunately you suffer a sword-cut, and one of
the spears grazes your side. Deduct 3 points from
your STAMINA. If you are still alive, you step up to
the altar. Turn to, 303.

167
‘I will take up the challenge,’ you say in the most
self-assured tones you can muster. The spectators
go mad with excitement at the prospect of another
fight, though several of them are looking at you as
though you are quite mad. You step into the circle

Baracas looks you up and down contemptuously. ‘1
will take you in three minutes,’ he says. You must
wrestle Baracas.

BARACAS

The fight is not to the death—any loss of STAMINA is
temporary ‘stun damage’ and may be restored after
the fight. You are not using weapons, so any SKILL
bonuses you get from magic swords, etc., do not
count, Wrestling combat is different. Each round,
first roll two dice for Baracas; if the total scores less
than or equal to his skri1, he has you in a hold.
Next, roil two dice for yourself; if you roll less than

SKILL 10 STAMINA 15

168

or equal to your SKILL, you have broken his hold. If
vour score is higher than your SKILL, you must lose
3 points from your STAMINA. If Baracas rolls higher
than his sKILL and you succeed in your roll, you
have him in a lock, and he has to deduct 5 points
trom his STAMINA. When the STAMINA Of either of
you reaches zero or less, that competitor loses the
pout. If you win, turn to 227. If you lose, turn to 347.

168
You make your way through the trees and into a
large clearing, filled with a motley collection of
people. There are peasants, farmers, merchants,
one or two soldiers and several Wood Elves. A large
fire has been lit, and several roasts are turning on
spits. Music is being played and jugglers are jug-
gling, dancers dancing and storytellers telling stor-
ies. A man armed with a halberd approaches you.
He says nothing, merely scrutinizes you closely and
then nods, as if satisfied. “You can pass,’ he says.
You ask him what's going on, and he tells you that

169-170

these people are refugees from the villages which
have been overrun by the Undead and that ther
have come here because elfin sorcery is preventing
Mortis’s legions from entering the wood — so far.
Near by a man in once-rich robes is hawking goods
from the back of a cart. Further on, a small group of
Wood Elves are conversing in low tones. Will you
see what the merchant has for sale (turn to 105) or go
over to the Elves (turn to 73)?

_ 169
Kandogor takes the first watch, and you lie down ta
rest. Just as youare on the point of falling asleep, the
door flies open and the black-robed figure you saw
in the room downstairs bursts in. Acting with com-
mendable speed, Kandogor trips up the intruder
with a deft kick. A moment later, his sword is at the
throat of the sprawling night prowler. Will you stop
him killing the unknown person (turn to 40) or let
him finish the job (turn to 18)?

170
Your search proves fruitless yet again, and now the
sun is setting. ‘We must get out,’ screams Elindora,
‘and try to reach the safety of the inn!’ As you make
your way to the cemetery’s entrance, evening
shadows fall like a curtain descending upon your
life. Just as the exit comes in sight, ahead of youa
chilling laugh rings out, and from behind a large
tombstone a figure steps forward to block your way.
It is a woman with pale skin and aristocratic
features. Her eyes are like twin orbs of bloody

171-172

nightmare and her mouth opens to reveal fangs
that glitter in the brightening moonlight. ‘Lady
Lotmora!’ exclaims Elindora. ‘We are undone!”

“You poor fools,’ snarls the Vampiress, ‘to imagine
vou could destroy me!’ She laughs maniacally and
beckons to her left. Four more figures shamble into
sight, They are Vampires — three obviously once
farmers, the other a soldier from Bloodrise Keep;
their faces are masks of bloodlust, all reason lost.
Lady Lotmora stares fixedly at you both, and you
begin to feel a terrible desire to surrender seize you.
Test your Resolve, but add 2 to the dice-roll. If you
succeed, turn to 1go. If you fail, turn to 220,

171
If you have already searched all the places of interest
in Keladon, turn to 91. If you have not yet searched
all these places, turn to 38.

172
As you grasp the door-handle, a needle concealed in
it pricks your skin and a virulent poison is injected
into your bloodstream. Roll one die: you must lose
the number of STAMINA points the die-roll de-

173-175

mands. If you are still alive, you soon find out that
this is a false door leading nowhere. You must
choose one of the others — the one marked with
either the sword (turn to 376) or the tree (turn to
100).

173
He is not interested in the slightest in anything you
may have - except an Amulet of Ages. If you have
one, turn to 130; otherwise, turn to 87.

174
Fortunately the door is not locked, and you slip
inside, to find yourself in a small storeroom which is
stacked with barrels of water, rope and so on.

You wait a few hours for ail the noise to die down
and then step silently out into the corridor. There is
no one else about. Will you try to get to the captain’s
cabin (turn to 119) or go where the prisoners are
held and try to free them (turn to 314)?

175

One of the skeletons opens its mouth in a dire
hissing laugh, and your nerve snaps. Uttering a
scream of uncontrolled terror, you drop your
weapon (note this on your Adventure Sheet) and
throw yourself backwards, fingers frantically
searching for the handle to pull the door shut be-
hind you. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to
106. If you are Unlucky, turn to 195.

176-177

176

You enter a small! storeroom, full of jars of wine and
rotting food. The Undead have no use for this kind
of nourishment any more, so no one has been here
for some time. You may stay and hide here for a
short while (turn to 318); or you can leave and open
the door opposite (turn to 199) or make your way
down the corridor (turn to 140).

177

Your battle-honed instincts take over and you throw
yourself into action almost before you are aware of
having formulated a plan. Tilting the shield, you
reflect the bright glare of the afternoon sun straight
into Kandogor'’s face and he is forced to shoot blind.
You hurl yourself to one side and the ballista bolt
whistles past you, grazing your arm. Deduct 2
points from your STAMINA. If you are still alive,
you ignore the pain and race forward to attack
Kandogor before he can ready another bolt. Turn to
366.

178-181

178

Terror threatens to engulf you like an icy wave
when you see three beautiful but corpse-pale faces
loom out of the darkness behind the snarling Were-
wight. Red lips part hungrily to reveal pointed
fangs. Obviously these are the Vampire concubines
of dread Mortis, attracted by war-cries and the smell
of fresh blood as moths are attracted to a flame. Test
your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 148. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 364,

179
You feel a tingling sensation between your
shoulder-blades: something is close behind you
Will you turn round (turn to 109) or (if you have one)
use an item: either the Spear of Qadarnai (turn to
157), the polished shield (turn to 283), or an iron
mace (turn to 375)?

180
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 258. If you
are Unlucky, turn to 155.

181,
You travel north on a dusty, unmade road. To your
right, a column of rocky crags and low hills marches
alongside you. After a while you spot the smoke of
a village up ahead. As you near it, you notice that
part of the outer stockade has been destroyed and
that some of the buildings are damaged, as if struck
by a giant flail. At the makeshift wooden gate stand
several guards, weapons at the ready. They are

182-184

dearly desperate — and desperate men are danger-
ous men. Curtly one of them demands your busi-
ness at the village of Menela. Will you look down
your nose at them and tell them to mind their own
business (turn to 221) or tell them you are on a
mission for General Chaideshu that concerns the
welfare of the whole island and its inhabitants (turn
to 281)?

182
Wielding the mace, you defend yourself

SKULL BEAST

Because you are using the mace, you are able to do
normal damage to the Skull Beast — its outer shell of
bone may be tough, butit is brittle and vulnerable to
smashing forces. If you win, turn to 267.

SKILL STAMINA 10

183
‘Don’t know anything ‘bout that,’ says one gruffly.
The other two look scared when you mention it
Will you offer two pieces of gold for more informa-
tion (turn to 156) or go and talk to the innkeeper
(turn to 34) or to the merchant (turn to 64) or, if you
have done all the talking you wish to do, turn to 273?

184
You step through the doorway and have to feel your
way along, as very little light penetrates the closed
casements in the outer wall and you dare not risk
kindling a torch. As your eyes adjust to the dark-
ness, you discern a door and a narrow flight of steps
184

that must wind down to the great hall. Briefly you
consider your chances of defeating all two hundred
Knights of Alptraum, should you goad them into
attacking you up the narrow stairs. Were there only
fifty, you might manage it, fighting them one at a
time and with the advantage of height. But the sheer
weight of numbers, coupled with their tireless
sinews, would prevail against you in the end. In-
stead, you turn your attention to the door directly
ahead of you which, you discover, leads on to the
east battlements.

If you go out on to the battlements, turn to 124. If
you return to the east tower and climb further up the
staircase, turn to 377.

You search the northwest of the graveyard, once
again to no avail. Time trickles on and now it is late
afternoon. Elindora is becoming visibly agitated.
“We must find them today - they will be alerted
tonight and seek us out. We cannot afford to wait
another day!’ Will you search in the northeast cor-
ner (turn to 60) or the southeast (turn to 170)?

186

Leaving Keladon behind, you set out on the road
north again, heading for the crossroads at the inn,
and then eastwards towards Bloodrise Keep. After a
short while you notice a commotion off the road to
the south. You can make out what looks like a
horseman riding hard, apparently pursued by a
pack of wolves, but the dust they are raising makes
tt hard for you to be sure. Will you press on (turn to
65) or run towards them and see if you can help the
rider (turn to 13)?

187-188

187
\\ \ ‘- Tou knock and give your story.
'\)\ Vy vi ’ 'j f hy 1 “ ?
| \\) WRAP SF if @ hp Wait while I deactivate the trap,’ you hear a voice
Wh) ’ \ } WW ALi! i | ) ae i es P y
Me \\" RT A TEAS Me Say; then, ‘Come in.’
Mi, vil H j y ,
\\? V{ \ \ My | EY AY, | hh fy tou open the door and step into a cluttered cabin:
’ \ / ! ; "

1 \

Se desk is littered with papers and nautical instru-
ments; chests of booty and captured treasures lie
wound in disorder. Captain Jarmesh is a small,
Eat-like man dressed in gaudy clothes, his eyes
beady and cunning. At the sight of you he gives an
sath and shouts, ‘You are not one of my men’
Drawing his sword, he comes towards you. Turn to

294.

x C0
ee
hhh! | , ie

x

188

The fight is hard and protracted. You make a lot of
poise in slaying the undead guards, Add 2 to your
larm Value. Will you now go out into the courtyard
surn to 286), go through the door to your right (turn
© 230) or through the door to the left (turn to 128)?

189-190

189
Incredibly, you manage to parry all the attacks. You
step up to the altar. Turn to 303.

190

You manage to throw off the effects of her hypnosis
Lady Lotmora shrieks in rage as she and her cover
advance to the attack, fangs bared and hands thet
end in blackened talons outstretched to rend you
Elindora takes on two of the Vampires; you must
fight Lady Lotmora and the other two. They all
come at you at the same time.

SKILL STAMINA
First VAMPIRE 7 9
Second VAMPIRE 6 8
LADY LOTMORA Bt 18

Remember: if you have the Spear of Qadarnai, it wil
inflict double damage upon them. Whenever Lot-

191

mora hits you, roll another die; on a roll of 1 or 2, she
mtes you and you lose 1 SKILL point (you may
=owever restore any lost SKILL points if you win). Lf
yOu Manage to defeat them, turn to 386.

191
“hile examining an upstairs room that has already
seen thoroughly ransacked, you hear a door slam
<sownstairs and then the sound of running feet, as
sameone dashes out of the house. Sticking your

_xead out of the window, you see a small boy, clearly

xrrified, running for his life away from the house.
Se darts round the corner. Will you run after him
curn to 36) or carry on searching the house (turn to
M6)?

192

= 192
The villagers instruct you to follow a mountain trail
which is marked by the unmistakable path of the
Thrasher: large footprints, smashed trees and shat-
tered rocks. Nobody will come with you to guide
rou. As you set off the villagers wish you good luck.
He'll need it,’ you hear one of them mutter. Belar
cuffs him round the head, before turning to you
with a warm smile: ‘I’m sure it'll be an easy job for
one such as you — no doubt we'll soon see you!”

an hour or so later, while you are following the trail
of the Thrasher, you hear a loud crashing and
grinding noise up ahead. Round a corner on the
mountain trail a raging beast appears, rampaging
through the trees. It is the Thrasher. It has a large,
tad-like body with two small forelimbs and two
huge back legs, obviously for leaping. The body is
heavily furred with black, matted bristles, Its head
resembles that of a hyena, save for the gaping
mouth lined with small, sharp teeth. The tail is long
and massive, ending ina solid ball of cartilage which
Buses to pulverize its prey. With one boundit leaps
at vou, swinging its tail ominously. You must fight
x

THRASHER SKILL 7 STAMINA 13

if the dice-roll for the Thrasher totals 11 or 12 for its
Attack Strength, before adding its skILL score, turn
& 152. If you win, turn to 92.

193-194

193

&s you follow the path to the seashore, you have an
anny feeling that you are being followed. You
arn to look behind you, but there is nothing there.
eusk is falling: in the failing light you notice some
mi shapes that seem to be floating on the surface
tthe roaring breakers of the sea that crash on to the
gach. The sound of the rolling waves and the sharp
ail of a seagull seem to pierce your heart with a
mse of lonely desolation. Fora moment you feel as
you were the last person left alive, But then your
art begins to pound and an adrenalin rush of fear
ms your blood, for the faint shapes are gliding
wards you, and you can see them more clearly
w: they are the spectral shadows of the drowned.
mostly forms, pallid white and wreathed in sea-
eed, fill your mind with dread. The Spirits of the
Sowned are calling to you with whispered words
e the surging sea. Test your Resolve. If you suc-
med, turn to 57. If you fail, turn to 82.

194

eptain Jarmesh is dead. Searching his desk, in one
the drawers you find a scroll and some keys. One
the keys is labelled ‘armoury’; others are for
srerooms, the brig and the locks to the fetters that
mnd the galley-slaves. The scroll is more interest-
=. It bears a message from Mortis to Jarmesh.
Reading it, you learn that Jarmesh is the first Chaos
@rate to have arrived, and that a whole fleet is on
way; their mission is to pick up Mortis’s undead
ions and then sail to attack the Delphic Alliance.

195 196-197

Mortis reports that he has full control of Bloodrise
Keep and has built a dam of bodies and bones on the
River Scort. This has rendered the moat round the
castle stagnant and still. Quite why he has done this
is unclear, although Mortis mentions that he and his
Undead are ‘free and unfettered’. You also find
orders from Lord Kashu of Vorodu, the Grand
Admiral of Chaos himself, ordering the Merciless te
terrorize those areas of Stayng Island that are still
free of Undead and to take as many slaves as poss
ible to man the slaveships of the Chaos fleet. Wil
you try to escape from the boat now and leave
Keladon to pursue your quest (turn to 26) or try te
rescue the villagers from the hold (turn to 354)?

196
The last Whipperwolf lies dead at your feet. You are
25le to pass the rest of the night in undisturbed
sleep. Next day, you leave Shamdabag Wood with-
cut any further trouble, and you soon spot the tor,
pointing like a finger at the sky, a short distance to
the west. Turn to 216.

195

While still fumbling with the door-handle, you are
struck glancing blows from several crossbow bolts.
Since you were dodging, they inflict the loss of only
3 points of STAMINA. If you are still alive, you
manage to slam the door behind you in time to block
the rest of the volley, which tears into the thick oak
as though it were balsa wood. As your foes scrabble
to get the door open, you are already bounding’
down the spiral stairs. Knowing they will be hot on
your trail in moments, you reach the landing and
open the door leading to the battlements. Add 3 te
your Alann Value and turn to 302.

197

Amazed at your remarkable fighting skills, the rest
ef the pirates turn tail and flee. Just as you step out
the back of the village hall, you observe a couple of
pirates loading a mule up with plunder taken from
their recent raid on the village. They lead the muile
away in the direction of the cove where the fishing
Doats are usually kept. Now you may search some of
the large houses in the village if you have not
already done so (turn to §1). Alternatively, you can

Investigate the village temple (turn to 171) or leave
= the village and go to the cove where the fishing

s
—

- boats should be (turn to 311).

—— = a ees

=
——- ss

a

198

198

You begin your search of the cemetery. The rows of
graves, tombstones and small crypts seem endless,
and after an hour or two of searching you begin to
feel like some forsaken traveller lost in hell. Broken
headstones and untended graves lend a sense of
desolation to the grim and bleak landscape. Some
graves have been opened and defiled; others look as
if the occupants have dug their own way out.

It is well past midday now. Elindora sighs with
frustration but Kandogor leads you to another area
‘This way, this way, I am sure of it,’ he says. You
begin to suspect that he is leading you in the wrong
direction. Once again your search proves fruitless,
and now the sun is setting. “We must get out,’ urges
Elindora, ‘if we are to reach the safety of the inn!’ As
you make your way to the cemetery entrance, even-
ing shadows fall like a shroud. As the exit comes in
sight, a chilling laugh sounds ahead of you. A figure
steps out from behind a large tombstone to block
your escape; it is a woman with pale skin and
aristocratic features. Her eyes are like twin orbs of
bloody nightmare and her mouth opens to reveal
fangs that glitter in a pool of moonlight. ‘Lady
Lotmora!’ screams Elindora. ‘We are undone!’

‘You poor fools,’ snarls the Vampiress, ‘to imagine
you could destroy me!’ She laughs maniacally and
gestures to her left. Four figures shamble into sight.
They are Vampires, three obviously once farmers,
the other once a soldier at Bloodrise Keep. Their
faces are masks of bloodlust, all reason gone, Lady

199-200

Lotmora stares hard at you both, and you feel a
terrible wish to surrender welling up inside you.
Test your Resolve, but add 2 to the dice-roll. If you
succeed, turn to 309. If you fail, turn to 399.

199
The door opens into a room overlooking the gate.
Arrow slits allow thin streams of dust-filled sunlight
into the room, creating a latticework of light on the
cold stone floor. Suddenly the sound of shuffling
and an incoherent bellowing fill you with fear, and
from the dark corner of the room three rotting forms
stumble towards you! Your nostrils are filled with
the smell of the grave and your eyes widen at the
hideous sight of living putrefaction, as three
undead warriors advance towards you. Test your
Resolve. If you succeed, turn to 147. If you fail, turn

to 397.

200
You give a war-cry and charge at Hlassamon, intent
on forcing him to hand over the potion to you, He
leaps to his feet, howling in abject cowardice. But at
the last moment he hurls a handful of dust into your
face and, while you are doubled up, coughing and
sneezing, he runs off in the direction of the three
tunnels at the far end of the room. When your eyes
finally stop watering, he has gone. Will you aban
don him to his fate and leave Benari (turn to 116), or
do you prefer to try and catch up with him by
grabbing the torch and racing down the left-hand

tunnel (turn to 143), the middle tunnel (turn to 323))

or the right-hand tunnel (turn to 287)?

201-202

201

Suddenly an arrow thuds into the ground beside
your foot! You look up to see three figures with
bows shooting at you from behind a boulder, a little
way up the side of the pass. You recognize one of
them as the shady-looking man you saw leaving the
Sword of the Samurai inn at Siltport; the other two
ook like buccaneers or Chaos pirates. An arrow
grazes your shoulder — deduct 1 point from your
STAMINA. Will you charge up the hill at the pirates
trurn to 261) or try to make a run for it down the pass
tturn to £61)?

202
After a while Salesh begins to complain of your
weight, saying, ‘Bah, it is not right that a great lord
ike myself should have to serve as a mere beast of
burden!’ You remind him of his promise recently
made, and he groans in annoyance. He leads you
across country and on to the road that leads to
Borgos, a short-cut that avoids the inn. Then he
stops. ‘I must rest, my friend — but only for a short
time.” You dismount, eyeing the Centaur sus-
piciously. He looks at you. Then he slaps a hand to
his forehead, as if a thought has just struck him. ‘Ye
gods,’ he exclaims, ‘the council meet! I must be
there — and it had all but slipped my mind.’ It is
transparently obvious to you that Salesh is lying
through his teeth. ‘Forgive me, noble friend, mat-
ters of state —I must return to Shamdabag Wood.’

What of my vital mission to kill Mortis,’ you say
wivly, ‘which after all in the long run is probably
more important to you than it is to me?’

203

‘Ah, yes, well. . . I’m sure that a great warrior like
yourself will have no trouble — in fact I would only
be a hindrance. Well, my thanks, and good luck.’
With that, he turns tail and canters off southwards.
Shrugging your shoulders, you set off on foot on the
road to Port Borgos. Turn to 46.

203

At the far end of the corridor you find an armoury.
Swords and polearms must once have filled the
wooden racks along the walls, but now the room
has been ransackéd by the undead army and most of
the better weapons are gone. However, your atten-
tion is caught by a broad-bladed halberd, which
looks as if it may have been fashioned in the Jand of
Hachiman, where the weaponsmith’s art is su-
preme. You test it; it is quite heavy, but you could
carry it if you first discarded your current weapon.
Decide whether you are going to do that (note the
halberd on your Adventure Sheet and delete your
current weapon, if you decide to) and then plan
your next move. From here, you can retrace your
steps and head east (turn to 313), or you can ascend
the stairs to the west tower (turn to 362).

204-205

204

You are within a few steps of the door when sud-
denly it swings open and you are confronted by two
of the Knights of Alptraum. Sheer surprise makes
you stand still, frozen into immobility. They are
ghastly to look upon: angular, bony frames on
which the scant flesh clings like a issue of ragged
parchment, in their eyes a glimmer like that of stars
on a cold winter’s night, and their guttural, voice-
less cries as they draw their greatswords. You must
kill them quickly or run the risk of alerting the other
undead knights seated below

SKILL STAMINA
First KNIGHT OF
ALPTRAUM 10 9
Second KNIGHT OF
ALPTRAUM 10 9

if you win, turn to 385.

205

You turn the body over: it is that of a man, middle-
aged, balding and with a thick black beard. He holds
a chipped sword in one hand. Then, to your sur-
prise, his eyes flick open — he still lives! ‘Water,
water,’ he croaks. You give him a drink from your
canteen. He is covered in blood and is obviously
dying. Pulling you closer, he whispers in your ear.
‘Listen to me. My name is Morlak and J was the chief
of Benari,’ he rasps. ‘Mortis sent his hordes to
destroy us. The Undead were led by some foul thing
summoned by Mortis to this plane from the Lands

206

of the Dead. It was like a giant skull on a myriad
skeletal legs. From its grinning maw it flung owt
tentacled tongues that pulled its victims into i
clacking, stiapping jaws. We tried to fight it but own
swords and arrows barely seemed to harm its bor
form. I think it must be vulnerable only to heavy
smashing weapons, such as clubs or maces. Re
member this, if you should have the misfortune te
meet it.’ These are his last words, for he coughs
spasmodically and the light of life leaves his eyes fae
ever.

Sparing a brief moment of time to mourn the brave
chief, you bury him beside the shrine, swearing that
Mortis will pay for his evil. Will you now leave
Benari (turn to 116) or investigate the ruined builé-
ings (turn to 335)?

206
With only seconds to spare, you manage to leap
from the raging inferno that was the stable, just as
flaming timber crashes to the ground behind you.
Unfortunately you run straight into the two pirates
they step back in surprise for a moment before
snarling unpleasantly. Turn to 6.

207-208

207

With acry, you fall into the pit, impaling yourself on
wooden spikes on the floor. Deduct 3 points from
sour STAMINA. If you are still alive, you haul
yourself out of the pit, gasping in pain. After a few
muiments’ rest spent binding your wounds, you
sep up to the altar. Turn to 303.

208

“Mortis gives vent to a snarl of rage as he recognizes
fhe weapon that held him helpless for long cen-
turies past. Then his cry becomes a wail of despair as
the ivory spear slices through his breastplate,
smpaling him through his dead heart. Clouds of
moxious vapour flood from his cape and choke you.
Shielding your face, you are forced to turn away, so
you never see what fate you have meted out to the
Aich-Lord. You catch one glimpse of his face at the
moment of his true death —a look of such final terror
ana loneliness that you will carry it to your grave.
When you look back, only a wisp of grey mist and a
pervading stench of corruption show where your
enemy fell; even the spear has gone. You go back
gown the stairs, to find the castle strewn with
bodies already in an advanced state of decay. The
gions of Mortis died with their tyrannical master.

You go to free the castellan from the dungeons
selow the keep. When he looks at you, he knows at
ence that you have faced and defeated a monstrous
evil: your hair has become stark white. Turn to goo.

209-210

209
You search the southeast area of the cemetery. The
graves, tombstones and small crypts seem endless
and after an hour or two of searching you begin 7
feel like some forsaken traveller, lost in hell, Broke>
headstones and untended graves lend a sense o
desolation to the bleak and grim landscape. Some
graves have been opened and defiled; others look as
if the occupants have dug their own way out.

It is past midday now. Elindora sighs with fru=
tration. Now will you search the northwest cornez
(turn to 113), the southwest (turn to 20) or the
northeast (turn to 60)?

| ps os et
— & tae
210

‘The keep is a terrible place,’ says the boy. ‘I’m ne
allowed to enter it, but I know that Mortis himsez
resides there. The former castellan, Braxis, is held iz
one of the dungeons at the bottom of the east towez

I know. He was shill alive, the last I heard, for the
black-hearted Lich-Lord loves to torment him -
although it wor’ t be long before he tires of this game
and turns Braxis into a Zombie. There are mam
undead patrols; but some servants have been ker
alive to carry out those tasks that the Zombie:
cannot do-in much the same way that ! have bee>
left alive and with ali my senses. You may be able
get some help from one of these, as we all live in fear
for our lives,’ Turn to 68.

211-213

211

Most of the buildings are simple huts, now empty or
on fire. However, there are larger houses {other
chan the temple and town hall) that may be worth
investigation; one is a large thatched bungalow, one
a two-storeyed brick house, and the fast is the
smithy with a large stable attached. Will you search
che bungalow (turn to 71), the house (turn to 251) or
‘he stables (291)?

212
As you step through the doorway, the skull symbol
seems to give off a pulse of eerie light. A wave of
terror sweeps over you. Test your Resolve, but sub-
tract 2 from the dice-roll. If you succeed, turn to 312.
If you fail, turn to 292

213
Don’t know — never seen him before,’ says one.

‘Probably one of them agents of that Mortis feller,’
says another.

‘Well, | certainly don’t intend to find out,’ says the
third. Will you now ask about the graffiti at the
cemetery (turn to 183), or have you asked all the
questions you want for now (turn to 273)?

214-216

214

Elindora stares deeply into your eyes, and you feel
the effect of a hypnotic trance stealing over you.
Moments later, you snap out of it with no memory
of what has happened; however, you do feel more
determined and vigorous. Add 1 to your RESOLVE
permanently. You assure Kandogor you are all
right, but he merely glowers, muttering under his
breath. ‘It is time to begin searching the cemetery for
the crypt of Lady Lotmora,’ says Elindora. Turn to
198.

215
With a deft flick of the wrist you manage to hit the
ball to the ground with your weapon. It rolls into a
corner and then, to your surprise, explodes with a
foud bang. Snarling in frustration, the shaman pulls
an ironshod staff from across his back as you close
with him. The staff is covered in strange-looking
tunes. Turn to 58.

216
The craggy rock, over five metres high, stands
motionless before you like some _ primordial
leviathan of stone. It is heavily eroded, pitted and
scarred by wind and rain. You stand at its base and
gaze up at the brooding, lifeless tock: it seems to
exude an atmosphere of foreboding. Raising the
whistle to your lips, you blow one short, shrill blast.
Fora momenta deathly silence falls across the land —-
and then suddenly everything changes. You find
yourself standing on a broad, flat expanse of black

217

and featureless sand. The sky is dark and threaten-
ing, filled with storm clouds. Lightning crashes and
thunder booms. A deluge of rain lashes your face.
You are alone, save for the towering rock. A bolt of
lightning strikes the rock with a flash and it begins
to creak and sway ominously. Stepping back, you
watch with growing panic as it starts to change
before your eyes, The stone begins to move, and
rocky limbs like crystal form round it. The shape
resolves itself into a giant, four-armed, two-legged
Rock Golem with eyes of coruscating blue plasma. A
nimbus of crackling azure energy plays about its
body like fire. You must fight it,

ROCK GOLEM

Each time you hit the Golem, deduct damage in the
normal way and then roll another die. Ona roll of 1,
turn to 276. Otherwise, fight on. If you defeat the
Rock Golem, turn to 316

SKILL 9 STAMINA 17

217
When itis gone, you climb out of the well. Realizing
that Borgos is nota safe place to linger in, you decide
to camp outside of the town. Turn to 329.

218

218

Garond’s eyes light up with enthusiasm as he re-
lates the story to you. ‘Legend tells of the great
battle fought between Mortis’s legions and the true
men of Stayng. In the thick of the fighting Qadarnai
sought out Mortis himself, and the two of them
clashed like Titans. Interestingly, although the
wory spear Qadarnai fought with had been
wrought specifically to slay the Undead, it had been
fashioned by Elves and lacked magical properties
when wielded by the hand of a mortal human being.
Knowing this, Qadarnai was able to slay Mortis only
by throwing the spear through the air, so that when
it struck the evil Lich it was not at that moment in a
mortal’s hands. Perhaps you recall the lines of the
poem:

Aware that his war-spear,

Elf-wrought ivory, rune-graven and gilt,

Was woven with a secret spell

That made it treacherous in his hands,

Qadarnai cast it from him

And across the space between them it flew,

Then found its rest in the Lich’s heart

And with a sere sigh Mortis was gone from this world.’

Will you now ask Garond about the Charm of
Unbinding (turn to 320) or the Finger of Lhyss (turn
to 300)?

219-221

219
When you are half-way along the hall, you are
gripped by an abrupt sense of chilling unease. Test
your Resolve. If you succeed, turn to 262. If you fail,
turn to 282.

220

You cannot resist the urge to give yourself up, and
you sink to your knees. Elindora, though un-
affected, is unable to defeat the Vampires alone.
You watch helplessly as she is slain, and is then
brought back from death as a Vampire. Soon it will
be your tum. . , Your adventure ends here.

221

As you growl at them contemptuously they step
back in fear and level their spears at you. One of
them shouts a command and several archers stick
their heads up from behind the wooden palisade
that surrounds the village. Before you can protest,
they draw their bows, and you are forced to flee.
Fortunately they are not good shots and you are hit
by only one arrow. Deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA. Obviously you cannot go back there.

You spend the rest of the day searching the hills, but
to no avail. You have no choice but to head south.
Turn to 3.

222-223

222
You have given away your position and Mortis is
sending out more patrols of Undead. Now you have
been discovered by one — a patrol of four rotting
Zombies. You must fight them one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA

First

UNDEAD GUARD 6 5
second

UNDEAD GUARD 5 7
Third

UNDEAD GUARD 6 6
Fourth

UNDEAD GUARD 6 6

If you win, add 2 to your Alarm Value, then turn to
133.

223
Plumes of black smoke rise skyward as you near
Benari. When you finally reach it, your worst fears
are confirmed: the whole place has been burnt to the
ground; all that remains are the smoking hulks of
homes and buildings. Several bodies lie scattered
about, but not as many as you would expect from
the destruction of the whole village. A few dogs
slink away at the sight of you, and vultures go about
their grisly business. Will you examine the bodies
(turn to 369), investigate the ruined buildings (turn
to 335) or leave the smoking village (turn to 116)?

224-225

224

You rub the Ring of Fays and call upon its power.
You feel a faint nausea and the air shimmers around
you for a moment. Looking down you cannot see
your body! It has rendered you invisible — but for
how long? Cross the Ring of Fays off your Adventure
Sheet. Unseen, you are able to walk on to the Mere:
less without being spotted. To the left is a door set
into the wall of the poop deck; presumably it leads
to the Captain’s cabin. To the right is a gangway that
leads down below decks. You can feel the invisi-
bility beginning to wear off now. Will you go in
search of the Captain (turn to 119) or go down below
and try to free the villagers (turn to 314)?

225
You hand over the Gold Pieces (cross them off your
Adventure Sheet), ‘Thank you,’ he mutters politely
and passes you the potion, ‘You had better drink it
straight away,’ he suggests.

You do so and find yourself at once more deter-
mined, able to face any horror. Note that on the next
two occasions when you are asked to Test your
Resolve, you will succeed automatically, and need
not roll any dice (however, your RESOLVE will not
be increased on these two occasions). The alchemist
bids you good day, and you climb out of the cellar
and leave Benari, Turn to 116,

~~ \ i. >.
‘
— ‘

226-227

226

With a final bestial cry, the shambling man-thing
crashes to the floor. Hurriedly you wipe its blood
‘rom your sword before it can tarnish the metal.
Desperation has lent you great strength, and you
were able to kill it quickly before its bellows of
nsensate bloodlust could attract the attention of
Mortis’s sentries. Restore 1 point of Luck, but also
2dd 2 to your Alarm Value, since the creature’s death
will not go unnoticed for long. You can now either
zo along the hall to an archway at the far end (turn to
219) or go back out into the courtyard and make for
the inner keep (turn to 379).

229
After a mighty tussle you finally have Baracas in a
stranglehold. He will not submit but slides into
unconsciousness. The crowd cannot believe its eyes
as his prone body is dragged out; many of them
nave lost money, betting on Baracas. You collect
vour 25 Gold Pieces. Now the excitement dies
down, and you are just sidling to the back door
when the bos’n says, ‘Wait amoment-— who the hell
2re you anyway?’ The pirates turn to stare. ‘Never
seen his like before,’ says one, ‘Get him, lads!’ cries
another, and several rush towards you, drawing
cheir sabres. Turn to 297.

228-229

228

As you approach, you notice a mechanism like #
giant crossbow on top of the gatehouse. It is «
ballista, a device capable of hurling lethal stee-
tipped bolts a distance of up to 400 metres. Doubt-
less in the past it has been deployed against many
besiegers of the keep, but you are sure it would have
been of minimal effect against the relentless troops

of Mortis’s Zombie army. If you have a copper coin

with the head of Mortis stamped on both sides, tury

to 285. Otherwise, turn to 388.

229

You scream out a war-cry and slash at the black

robed figure, who promptly turns tail and flees. A
bit easy, you think to yourself doubtfully, but you
are not disturbed further that night.

The next day dawns and you go downstairs, The
same crowd are there as before, packing and
readying themselves for the day’s journey. The
innkeeper tells you that the person in black left first

thing in the morning, You notice that one of the

farmers is missing; the other two look downcast and
frightened. You decide to press on with your jour-
ney. Will you head northeast towards Port Bargos
(turn to 46) or south towards Shamdabag Wood
(turn to 325)?

230-232

230
e right-hand door opens on to a corridor running

the length of the outer wall; it is lit by torches set in
trackets on either side, There is a wooden door to
@ither side of you, and ahead the corridor dis-
appears into gloomy darkness. Will you go through
the left-hand door (turn to 176) or the right-hand
oor (turn to 199), or go straight ahead (turn to 140)?

231
At least the boy seems to have escaped, you think to
yourself as you search the bodies, You find nothing.
You may now search the bungalow (turn to 71) or
the stables (turn to 291), if you have not already
visited these two places. Alternatively you can in-
vestigate the temple (turn to 171) or the village halk
{turn to 131); otherwise, you leave the village and
make your way to the cove where the pirate ship
should be (turn to 311).

}|

Leaving the tomb behind, you set off down the
hillside.

The villagers give you a good send-off and you
stride out down the road towards Siltport once
more. Turn to 3.

233

233
The jester’s eyes snap open and he gets to his feet
without a sound. You watch him warily, and he
stares back with dull eyes set in a livid white face.
His painted smile looks eerie and insincere. At last
you break the silence: ‘Which door must I take to
reach Mortis’s sanctum?’

He bares his mouldering teeth in a crooked, crafty
smile, ‘Ah,’ he says, ‘it depends on whether you
know how to get two things out of one, and how to
make sense out of a mix-up.’ You stare at him as
though he were mad, which he probably is. ‘Pass-
word! Password!’ he snaps at you suddenly. ‘Are
you a dullard? Password, I say!’

You don’t know any password, so you snarl at him
in frustration and draw your sword before turning
to inspect the three doors. One of them presumably
leads to the tower where Mortis has his lair—but you
have no way of knowing what traps might lie be-
hind the other two, nor how to distinguish them

from the correct door, Or do you... ? Choose
which door you will take:
The door with the snake-symbol?  Turnto172
The door with the sword-symbol? Turn to 376
The door with the tree-symbol? Turn to 100

234-236

234

« dying sun is in your eyes, and all you can see of
Mortis is an onrushing shadow against the blood-
Sained twilight sky. You raise your arm and hurl
¢ spear towards him. Roll two dice and compare
total to your SKILL. [f the total rolled is greater
whan your SKILL, your aim was askew; the spear has
missed and you must fight him without a weapon
turn to 250). If the total is less than or equal to

your SKILL, you have hit him (turn to 88),

235
ou say goodbye to the innkeeper and make as if to
ave. He stares at you in astonishment, ‘You can-
t leave now, sir!’ he exclaims in a high thin voice
enged with panic. ‘You'll get yourself killed! And
en you'll come back . . .’

Vhat do you mean, you oaf?’ you demand rudely,
@nnoyed that none of these people will speak
plainly,

‘Tcannot say,’ replies the innkeeper. ‘But do not
ive this night, or your life will be in grave peril,

Believe me.’

‘il you laugh scornfully and leave anyway (turn to
g) or take the fat innkeeper’s advice and go up to
sur room (turn to 298)?

236
t the last moment you dodge to one side and the
Dolts of plasma crash into the sand behind you,
using it into a sheet of glass. Return to 216 and fight

237-239 240-243

240
‘Lurse you then, you swine,’ he snarls and comes at
you again with his sword.

SAPTAINJARMESH © skitt& = STAMINA4

237
You drive the last few crows away, and they
away eastwards. Carefully you lower the cage tot
ground, then you lift the bar and open it, reaching”
inside for the poor man. Suddenly he locks }
hands round your throat in an iron grip. Startled.
you look into his eyes and, with a thrill of horror,

gaze into milky white orbs, staring and dead. Hs 241
flesh is rotting, and you see a deep wound in his ™ © CUrsory search of the bodies reveals a pouch on

chest. The man is a Zombie! Mortis must have me =v Delt of one of the pirates. Inside you find 25 Gold
imprisoned him and watched him die, then brought Fieces (note them on your Adventure Sheet), You
him back as oné of the Undead! You are caught § “°"tinue down the road, which leads east out of the
completely unawares — Test your Resolve. If yo tills. Turn to 141.

succeed, turn to 127. If you fail, turn to 322.

you wound him again, turn to 125.

242
238 You find a suitable house, small and cosy, to spend
You leap for the other side of the pit as the floes J *e night in. Will you light a fire and cook yourself
crumbles away beneath you. Your fingers grab the § Sme food {turn to 310) or make do with cold snacks
lip of the pit just in time, permitting you to haul § *¢ a chilly night without a fire (turn to 373)?
yourself out, unhurt. You step up to the altar. Tu

to 303. 243

They greet you cordially enough. However, when
you try to engage them in conversation, you get no
turther than an exchange of bland pleasantries.
Apparently they do not wish to talk with you but are
®o polite to say so to your face. Then one of them
points toa man who has moved to the middle of the
Searing and is standing beside the fire, He holds a
‘ate and is clearly a bard. ‘Ah, Garond is going to
ang for us,’ says an Elf. Will you stay to listen to the
song (turn to 333) or, if you think you have already
wasted too much time, leave the clearing and walk
towards Keladon (turn to 165)?

239
Your Alarm Value indicates how much attention yow

have drawn to yourself while penetrating the
castle’s defences. If you have made too much nois
or stayed in one place too long, the patrols of
undead sentries may be alerted. To see if this has
happened, roll two dice and add 3 to the total rolled.
If the new total is less than or equal to your Alar
Value, you hear someone approaching — turn to 222.
If it is greater than your Alarm Value, you haw
escaped detection as yet, and must now turn to 133

244~246

244
‘As you wish,’ she says, shrugging her shoulders
indifferently. Now it is ime to begin. ‘We must
search for the crypt of Lady Lotmora,’ says Elin-
dora. Turn to 198.

245

You walk straight into a guardroom, A dozen
skeletons are standing round the walls, facing out
through the tower windows in untiring vigilance
and with cocked crossbows in their bony hands. Ne
sooner have you éntered than they whirl around. A
| dozen deadly sharp quarrels are levelled at your

chest and you know that at least one would find
| your heart before you could back out through the

door. Test your Resolve. If you succeed, turn to 66. E

you fail, turn to 175.

246
You find a bunch of iron keys on the traitor’s belt.
Take these if you wish to (note them on your Adver-
ture Sheet). After rolling the body down into the
gatehouse and hiding itin a place where you hope #%
will not be found, you hurry on into the outers
bailey. Turn to 144.

247-248

247
However many opponents are left turn and lope out
sirough the door before you can kil] them. Cursing,
vou realize the survivors will warn the others of
wour presence. Add 4 ta your Alarm Value. A closer
<\amination of the room reveals nothing of interest,
Sut one of the dead Zombies is carrying a pouch.
inside are 10 Gold Pieces and an iron key (note them
en your Adventure Sheet). Leaving the room, you

‘sontinue on your way down the corridor into the

depths of the keep. Turn to 140.

248

The combatants go at each other hammer and tongs,
using smashes, head-butts, kicks, gouges, throws
2nd holds. There don’t appear to be any rules —
except that weapons aren’t allowed. For a while the
Upgre’s superior size and weight seem to be winning
fim the fight, but soon Baracas gets the measure of
tus opponent and his superior skill begins to show
through. He manages to trip Grom - and suddenly
Saracas has him, face down on the ground, in a
punishing stranglehold. Grom is forced to submit.
You have won! Collect your winnings — twice what
vou bet — and add them to your Adventure Sheet. The
excitement dies down now, and you are just sidling
to the back door when the bos’n points at you and
says, ‘Wait a moment — who the hell are you any-
way?’

The pirates turn to stare. ‘Never seen his like be-
‘ore,’ says one. ‘Get him, lads!’ cries another, and
several of them rush you, drawing their sabres.
Turn to 297.

249-250

249

s= search the southwest area of the cemetery. The
mves, tombstones and small crypts seem to go on
ever, and after an hour or two of searching you
ein to feel as if you were some forsaken traveller,
* in hell. Broken headstones and untended
ves lend a sense of desolation to the bleak and
mn landscape. Some graves have been opened
si defiled; others look as if the occupants have dug
mr own way out.

is past midday now. Elindora sighs with frus-
etion. Will you now search the northwest corner
to 185), the southeast (turn to 374) or the
etheast (turn to 149)?

250

we continue to climb towards the top of the dam of
es while Mortis rides closer. As he dismounts
places his gauntlets on the dam, preparatory
climbing up it after you, the whole structure
vers. You almost lose your grip; but you do
snage to scramble the last few metres until you are
top of the dam, With your boots planted squarely
the faces of men long dead, you peer down in the
pening twilight: Mortis is climbing towards you,
xing like a great black bat, ragged cape fluttering
the salt breeze, eyes flashing behind his visor as
y catch a last scarlet blaze of sunset. Now you
est do battle with him. Test your Resolve. If you
meeed, you have to deduct only 1 point from your
ILL owing to the fear you feel, but you can fight
m normally. If you fail, you are not only shaking

251-253

so much that you must lose a point of SKILL; t
draws all strength from your limbs, so any blow |
do land will inflict only 1 point of damage to ¥
adversary’Ss STAMINA (3 if you successfully
LUCK). If you wish to use an item against the Li
Lord, turn to 145.

LORD MORTIS
If you succeed in killing him, turn to goo.

SKILL 10 STAMINA

251
The front door of the house is hanging brokenly
its hinges. Stepping inside, you find yourself i
simple hallway, with stairs leading up and doors
either side. Will you first search the ground
(turn to 331) or the upstairs (turn to 191)?

252
The undead creature collapses in a heap, truly d
this time. Will you use the Ring of Communing
report back to General Chaideshu (tum to 32)
leave the hills and take the road to Siltport (
to 3)?

253
You hastily recite the words taught you by
castellan’s mother. Even as you do, it occurs to y
that you may have chosen the wrong moment —
now that you have spoken the Charm, it is s
and cannot work again.

254

If the paragraph you have just turned from is listed
below, the Charm will have some effect:

If you have turned from 66, turn to 69

If you have turned from 204, turn to 98
If you have turned from 245, turn to 69
If you have turned from 250, turn to 338
If you have turned from 293, turn to 84
If you have turned from 358, turn to 338

If the paragraph you turned from is not listed here,
you have used up the Charm to no purpose; turn
back to the paragraph you noted and continue your
adventure.

254

This evil pirate must have slain many innocents
before without showing mercy orremorse, Still, you
cannot bring yourself to kill someone who has sur-
rendered. You lower your sword and step back.
With a snarl of contempt, Jarmesh plucks a dagger
from his boot and hurls it at you. Deduct 3 points
from your STAMINA. If you survive, he shouts,
‘You naive fool — now I will kill you,’ and comes at
you again.

CAPTAIN JARMESH
If you kill him, turn to 194.

SKILL8 STAMINA 2

255-258

255
As you leave the temple you feel behind you the
rage of the White Queen; she curses you for aban-
doning her chapel. Lose 1 point from your LUCK.
You may now search some of the larger houses in
the village if you have not already done so (turn to
51). Alternatively you can investigate the village hall
{turn to 131), or you can leave the village and go to
the cove where the fishing boats should be (turn to

314).

‘256
You try to dodge, but one of the searing bolts of
plasma catches you a glancing blow. Lose 5 points
from your STAMINA, If you are still alive, return to
216 and fight on.

257
You slay the last Vampire and see that Elindora has

dispatched her opponents using swordplay and
sorcery. Kandogor is astonished and promptly
turns tail to flee. If you have the Spear of Qadarnai,
turn to 326. Otherwise, turn to 296.

258
The ballista bolt whizzes over your head and buries
itself in the swampy ground a few paces behind
you. Kandogor tries desperately to winch the bal-
lista back for a second shot, but you reach him long
before he can reload. Turn to 366,

259-261

259

Rounding a bend in the tunnel, you find yourself at
the entrance to a huge chamber. Hundreds of Giant
Ants are crawling about everywhere, many tending
football-sized eggs constructed of a soft white mem-
brane. As you appear, fifty or more warrior Giant
Ants catch your scent and scurry towards you. They
are inhumanly fast and, though you try to flee, they
catch up with you easily, You cannot fight so many
and soon, overwhelmed, you are food for their
voung. Your adventure ends here.

260

After several hours of aimless wandering, you
finally see a pinprick of light at the end of a tunnel.
Running on, you find a small hole, hidden by a
bush, that leads into the open air. Wrggling
through, you come out on the side of a small hill,
just outside the village. Thanking the Goddess of
Luck for rescuing you, however belatedly, you
decide it is time you left Benari. Turn to 116.

261
Shouting a war-cry, you charge straight up at your
ambushers. Their eyes widen in surprise; desper-
ately they try to shoot you before you can reach
them. Instinctively, you dodge and weave to avoid
their arrows. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to
341. If you are Unlucky, turn to 301.

262-263

262

Panic wells up inside you, but you manage to fight it
down, Add 1 to your RESOLVE, You realize that you
are in great danger here: the barracks must be the
base for Mortis’s undead troops, and it is only a
heaven-sent premonition that has warned you to
get away before they return and find you. With your
jangling nerves still on a tight rein, you quickly
retrace your steps and go out again into the court-
yard. The sunlight does something to restore your
spirits after that harrowing sense of foreboding you
experienced, but you now realize that there are onlv
a couple of hours until nightfall. You hurry across to
the inner keep; turn to 379.

263
You charge the wolfpack and they come at you,
snarling. The Centaur stops running and turns to
throw its spears at them from a safe distance. You
must fight (treat the pack as a single opponent).

WOLFPACK

Roll 1 additional die at the end of each round of
combat. On a throw of 1, the Centaur has
accidentally hit you with a javelin, causing 2 points
of damage to your STAMINA. Ona throw of 4-6, he
hits the wolves for 2 points of damge . Ona roll of 2
or 3, he misses completely. If you win, turn to 27.

SKILL 8 STAMINA 13

264

264
To your relief the key fits and you are able to remove
the padlock. Gently swinging the door open, you
are greeted by a stench of filth and stale air. You
grimace as you step into the blackness beyond.

As your eyes adjust, you can make out a heavy
bronze grating covering a pit in the floor.

You step over to it and the sound of your tread
awakens its occupant. He calls out in a weak voice.
Peering down through the bars of the grating, you
see it is Braxis, the young castellan, The dank,
cramped confines of this shallow cell foree him to
squat, bent almost double in his own filth. The
marks of a brand across his face and the congealed
blood staining his tattered tunic tell you that he has
been cruelly tortured. His eyelids flutter weakly as
he tries to speak. If you unlock the grating and haul
him out, turn to 278. If you first give him time to
speak, turn to 336.

265-266

265

You slip into the well, then poke your head out
over the top as a hideous-looking creature scuttles
around the corner into the plaza. More than any-
thing else, it looks like a giant skull above a myriad
insect-like legs, but instead of chitin these legs are
made of skeletal bone. Several long, sinuous
tentacle-tongues rasp and writhe from the grinning
jaws reaching for you, trying to grab you and draw
you towards its snapping jaws. You recognize the
legendary Skull Beast, a creature that lives in the
Lands of the Dead, and which comes to Titan only
when summoned by an evil and powerful necro-
mancer like Mortis. Will you stay hidden for the
time being (turn to 10) or show yourself and attack
the Beast (turn to 160)?

266
Stepping into the chapel you are struck immediately
by the scent of the place: clean and wholesome and
without that rotting smell of decay that permeates
the rest of Bloodrise Keep. The chapel is small: just a
few pews and, at the far end, an altar draped in
gold-edged white linen. On it rests a beautiful ivory
statuette of the White Queen. Someone dressed in
rich black robes is sitting in front of the altar. It is a
middle-aged woman, noble and beautiful. For a
moment you stare at each other in fear, until you
both realize that neither of you is undead. You tell
her of your mission, and she says, ‘I am Iola, the
mother of Braxis, the casteHan. He has been taken
prisoner and is held in the east tower. Please release

267-268

him — if you do he may be able to help you destroy
the evil Mortis.” You express concern over her
safety. ‘As long as I remain in the chapel I am
completely safe. No Undead can enter here, not
even Mortis himself; the power of the White Queen
keeps them out. I will aid you in your noble quest,
for I know a magic charm that I can teach you: it will
disrupt all Undead within hearing, causing their
bones to dissolve and their flesh to rot to dust. Use it
wisely, however, for it can work once and once
only. Now go,’ she says. ‘I will pray for you and for
my son.’ She turns to kneel at the altar of the White
Queen.

You leave the chapel and continue along the cor-
ridor towards the east tower. Turn to 123.

267
The Skull Beast explodes in a cloud of bone-dust and
disappears ina rush of foul air and energy. Regain 1
point of Luck. Then you notice something very
strange: its shadow has remained behind, a dark
shape on the floor. Will you take it (turn to 33) or
leave it (turn to 350)?

268
Garond says, ‘Many stories abound. One relates
that the Finger of Lhyss is some ancient artefact
fashioned by the goddess for a reason now long lost
in the mists of myth and legend. According to this
story, it lies on this very island and is, in fact, the
feature now known as Whistlestone Tor, which isa

269

short way west of here. Who can say whether this is
true or not? But it makes for a good tale,” You can
now ask about the Charm of Unbinding (turn to 340)
or the Spear of Qadarnai (turn to 380). If you feel,
however, that you have spent enough time here
already, you can continue towards the village of
Keladon (turn to 165).

269

You search the northwest area of the cemetery. The
rows of graves, tombstones and small crypts seem
endless, and after an hour or two of searching you
begin to feel the way some forsaken traveller must,
Jost in hell. Broken headstones and untended
graves lend a sense of desolation to the bleak and
grim landscape. Some graves have been opened
and defiled; others look as if the occupants have dug
their own way out.

It is past midday now. Elindora sighs with frustra-
tion. Will you search the southeast corner (turn to
289), the southwest (turn to 359) or the northeast
(turn to 149)?

270

270

You hastily invoke the power of the Ring of Fays.
Instantly it vanishes from your finger (cross it off
your Adventure Sheet), but the next moment you
sense a tall, shadowy figure flanking you on either
side. Even in the bright sunlight, the Fays seem
surrounded by a cold green shadow as they step
forward and hold up great shields to protect you.
You are not sure whether or not Kandogor can see
them. He releases the ballista bolt but is astonished
when it drops in mid-flight and falls harmlessly at
your feet. You race to the gatehouse, reaching it
long before he has managed to get another bolt
ready. Only then do you notice that the Fays have
vanished as silently as they came. Turn to 366.

271

=F bs

He says he is starving and you leave some food for
him (cross off one Provision from your Adventure
Sheet —if you have none, you cannot help him). You
reassure the boy that you will be as quick as you can
and you tell him firmly not to leave the cellar under
any circumstances, for itis very dangerous. He begs
you to come back as soon as possible. You promise
to do so and to bring those scum of the sea, the
Chaos pirates, to justice. You may now search the
bungalow (turn to 71) or the stables (turn to 291), if
you have not already done so, Alternatively, you
can investigate the temple (turn to 171) or the village
hall (turn to 131); or, if you prefer, you can leave the
village and go to the cove where the pirate ship
should be (turn to 311).

272-273

272
You pick up the spear; it feels good in your hands, as
if imbued with a powerful force of its own. The
spear is useful in combat against the Undead.
Whenever you fight undead foes with the spear,
vou may double all the damage you inflict. It has no
other properties you know of — yet. Note the Spear
of Qadarnai on your Adventure Sheet, Then your
gaze flicks to the corpse of the adventurer — you
could have sworn it twitched! To your horror, its
eyes snap open and it sits up with a jerk. Its milky-
white, dead eyes stare at you hungrily. It comes at
you with its sword. You must fight the creature.

UNDEAD
TOMB-ROBBER SKILL6 STAMINA 8

If you win, turn to 252.

273
Outside, as the sun sinks, darkness is creeping over
the land like a fog. The patrons of the inn smile
nervously and put on a false air of joviality. The
innkeeper starts to fidget and fiddle with the garlic
buds. The soldier looks up from his mug and nods at
you in a comradely fashion — although something
about his eyes disturbs you. Will you leave the inn
now and carry on with your journey (turn to 235) or
decide to go up to your room and get some sleep
(turn to 298)? ,

274-277

274
Unobserved, you make your way further up the
beach to a spot out of sight of the pirate guards. You
swim out and around to the aft side of the Merciless.
Reaching the anchor-chain, you begin to climb up it.
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 7. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 394.

| 275
The Elixir acts as a Potion of Skill. Add 1 to your
Initial and current SKILL. Return to the paragraph
whose number you noted.

276
The Golem gives a deafening bellow of rage and
twin bolts of lightning leap from its eyes towards
you. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 236. If
you are Unlucky, turn to 256.

277

The combatants go at each other hammer and tongs,
using smashes, kicks, throws and holds. The only
rule seems to be that weapons aren’t allowed. Fora
while the Ogre’s superior size and weight seem to
be winning him the fight, but Baracas soon gets the
measure of his opponent and his superior skill
begins to tell. He manages to trip Grom - and
suddenly Baracas has him, face down on the
ground, in a punishing stranglehold. Grom is
forced to submit. The pirates shout excitedly,
‘Another, another!’

278

The Ogre is dragged out, and Baracas gets to his
feet, saying, ‘I will fight any who challenges me.
Come on, you seadogs, twenty-five Gold Pieces
says I can beat any man-jack of you!’ The rest of
them fall silent, shuffling their feet and looking
shifty. No one steps forward. Will you take up the
challenge (turn to 167) or decide that discretion is
the better part of valour and leave (turn to 328)?

278

Braxis seemed to be on the verge of fainting when
you were unlocking the grating, but now he utters a
terrible groan as you lift him out of the pit. For
several seconds he is unable to control the spasms of
pain, as circulation creeps tortuously back into his
cramped limbs; despite his great bravery, he cannot
stifle a cry of agony. Add 2 to your Alarm Value.

‘Come,’ you say, ‘we must find Mortis before the
sun sets.’

Braxis, curled on the floor, shakes his head. ‘No,’ he
gasps. ‘I’m too weak to stand unaided, and if you
burden yourself with me you'll just jeopardize your
mission. Find and kill the evil lord, then you can
come back for me.’

279-280

It grieves you to leave this brave man here in this
foul dungeon, but you are forced to admit that he is
right. ‘Rest then, castellan,’ you say, touching his
shoulder as you turn to leave. Turn to 146.

279

You emerge on to the tower roof. Mortis’s black
pennant flies from the top of a pole here — but it is
the creature chained to that pole which concerns
you most of all. You have the impression of great
bulk, of a face like that of a giant rat silhouetted
against the sinking sun, of eyes of red fire and wings
like the shutters of night. You are already backing
off as it makes a lunge towards you. You must kill it
as quickly as you can, since it is loudly rattling the
chain that tethers it and uttering horrifying shrieks
all the while.

NYCTERIN SKILL STAMINA 15

Note the number of Attack Rounds you spend
fighting it, then add that number to your Alarm
Value. If you killit, you can return to the first landing
and take the door to the battlements; turn to 302.

280
‘Legend tells of the great battle fought between
Mortis’s legions and the true mem of Stayng,’
Garond declaims. “There Qadarnai sought out
Mortis himself and closed with him in a struggle to
the death. Although Qadarnai’s spear was wrought
specifically to slay the Undead, nevertheless its
power was weakened by contact with the blood-

281

soaked earth, where so many had fallen, both the
dead and dying. Thus it was that Qadarnai, realiz-
ing this, was able to slay Mortis only by throwing
the spear with the last of his strength as he fell,
dying, from a charring blast of sorcerous energy. In
flight, the thrown spear’s power was undimin-
Shed, and it struck the unlife from Mortis’s foul
corpse as it pierced him through his shrivelled black
heart.’ You begin another question, but he says,
"Well, it has been pleasant talking to you — but now
there are other matters claiming my attention.’ You
see a comely young girl waving to him from across
the clearing. ‘Farewell, young warrior.’ He leaves.
You decide it is time to press on to the village of
Keladon; turn io 165.

281

“Yeah? And my aunt's the queen of all Khul,’ mocks
the guard. ‘Be off with you!’ The other guard looks
you over, then whispers to his companion. They
both look at you again, carefully this time, then the
first guard says, ‘Weill, I suppose we'd better take
you to see Belar, just in case. Come on.’ He motions
you to enter the village. Turn to 321

282-283

You cannot control a sudden access of overwhelm
ing terror. Phantasms claw up from the darkest
corners of your imagination; as you whirl around
in panic, you seem to glimpse movements and
scurryings in the deep shadows against the wall
Suddenly an uncontrollable shriek flies from your
lips like a gleeful spectre, echoing along the halls
and deserted corridors of the castle, You turn to run,
but it is too late. You blunder over an outstretched
pike and pitch headlong against a spiked breast-
plate. Gaunt, grey hands seize you. Your adventure
ends here.

283
You raise the polished shield in front of your face
and, using it as a mirror, look over your shoulder.
Your heart nearly stops, for some unutterably
hideous thing stands behind you, ail claws and
scales, its face a mask of horror. However, the

284

reflection of its face is blurred — but you know that if
you were to gaze upon it directly, it would drive you
mad. The creature sees its own reflection in the
shield and gives a moan of despair. Then it howls in
tage and madness and runs away, Regain 1 LucK
pomt.

Musing on these strange events, you leave the
beach. Will you now enter Port Borgos (turn to 30) or
camp outside it for the night and make for Bloodrise
Keep in the morning (turn to 329)?

Your struggle with the bellowing man-beast goes on
and on, until you seem to be trapped in an unending
nightmare in which you rain blow after blow upon
it, to no effect. At last, it flails a final desperate time,
then staggers back and crashes to the floor, at the
same trme knocking heraldic shields from the wall.
The noise echoes leadenly in the low-ceilinged hall.
Add 4 to your Alarm Value, for one of Mortis’s
undead sentries will surely have heard the noise
and may come to investigate at any minute. You can
now either go along the hall to an archway at the far
end (turn to 219) or go back out into the courtyard
and head towards the inner keep (turn to 379).

Wh ri

ae i

1 Wa

{a NK

tt

ih
if 1)

hy

ra

ae hi i

285-287

285
While you are still thirty paces from the main gate
and are just wading out of the mire that is the moat,
a sudden movement makes you freeze: Kandogor
appears on the roof of the gatehouse and watches
you with a sneer as he levels the ballista. ‘So,’ he
says, ‘you thought to take my master unawares. Did
you believe it would be easy to creep up on him
while the sunlight forces him to remain entombed in
his lair? Fortunately he has loyal servants, mortals
like myself, to protect him.’

You spit on the ground. ‘Loyalty? You cur — you
don’t know the meaning of the word!’ If you have
the Polished Shield, turn to 177; if not, and you wish
to use an item, turn to 139. Otherwise, you decide to
make a rush forward (turn to 317).

286

You step through the archway and cross the inner
courtyard. Ahead is the main gate of the keep,
flanked by a tower on either side. Suddenly a loud
banging alerts you to danger. Dozens of wooden
shutters are flung open in all the walls and a torrent
of arrows rains down. There is no time to react. Your
adventure ends here.

287
Holding the torch aloft, you set off down the right-
hand tunnel. You follow a twisting passage that has
been hewn out of the solid rock by pickaxes and
chisels; it looks like an old mine-working. After a

291

the other direction, the stairs descend to a pad
locked door of stout mahogany. In the wan light
filtering down, the dark wood seems the colour ofa
bloodstain.

If you go up the tower, turn to 163. If you go down to
the locked door, turn to 343. If you decide to lie low
here for a while in case Mortis’s undead patrols are
scouring the castle for you, turn to 293.

291
The stable and smithy prove rather uninteresting
You do find 6 Gold Pieces in an old leather poucta
under a pile of straw on the upper level of the stable,
however. You are just pocketing it when you hear
some noise outside. Looking cautiously out througia
a window, you spot two pirates, one an Orc and the
other a large Ogre, laughing evilly outside and
sharing a gourd of wine. One has a burning torch im
his hand, and to your consternation he suddenty
throws it into the stable. Within seconds the dry
straw goes up in flames, much to the merriment af
the cut-throats. Desperately you make a run for the
door, but the wooden building is rapidly catching
fire. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 206. IF
you are Unlucky, turn to 121.

292-293

292

You flee in absolute terror, overcome by a super-
natural fear. This fright has taken root in the very
depths of your being — you can never return here
again without losing your mind. After a short while
you regain your senses, but now you are hopelessly
lost in the hills. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn
to 432. If you are Unlucky, turn to 72.

493

You could not have chosen a worse place to hide:
right in the stairwell of the tower leading up to
Mortis’s personal apartments! After a few minutes,
you hear a noise like the clattering of hollow sticks,
followed by the scrape of a rusted sword leaving its
scabbard. Whirling, you see that two skeletal war-
riors of the Lich-Lord’s élite Battalion of Millennial
Bones have entered through one of the archways
behind you. They advance noiselessly, their hard
white faces set eternally in grins of unholy glee.

SKILL STAMINA

First

SKELETON WARRIOR g 8
Second

SKELETON WARRIOR | 9 9

If you defeat them both in six Attack Rounds or less,
turn to 355. If it takes you longer than six Rounds,
turn to 104. If you wish to escape and flee up the
Stairs, turn to 159.

294-296

294
You must fight Jarmesh.

CAPTAINJARMESH  skILL8 STAMINA11

If you reduce Jarmesh’s STAMINA to 5 or less, turn
to 54.

295
It is no good: you are hopelessly lost; soon you fall
exhausted. The torch goes out, and when that
happens there is no hope for you. Your adventure
ends here. .

296

You are much too tired to pursue the traitor after
your monumental battle, and Elindora is equally
exhausted. However, in his haste to flee, Kandogor
drops a pouch of coins, which you take. Note on
your Adventure Sheet you have 10 Gold Pieces and a
copper coin with the head of Mortis on both sides.
Elindora curses Kandogor for a treacherous viper.
‘No wonder he was so keen to discredit me,’ she
adds. Turn to 386.

297-298

297
You have a tough fight on your hands: more than
ten pirates are rushing you. However, you do have
your back to the wall and only two can get to you ata
time.

SKILL STAMINA

First PIRATE 6 8
Second PIRATE 7 7
Third PIRATE 8 6
Fourth PIRATE 7 9

If you defeat all the pirates, turn to 197.

298
As you are walking past the table where the black-
cowled figure sits, he grabs your wrist in a vice-like
grip and leans forward as if to speak or to stab you.
Just then, the soldier appears and pushes him to
the floor. ‘Get out,’ he screams at the figure lying
sprawled on the ground. The unknown gets up and
slinks away without a sound, save fora light cough.

The soldier smiles then and motions to you to sit.
“You can’t trust anyone in these parts — there are
servants of Mortis everywhere,’ he comments in a
surprisingly cultured voice. ‘Well met, my friend.
My name is Kandogor, former soldier of Bloodrise
Keep.’ He unfastens his studded leather jerkin to
display his uniform hidden underneath; its livery
shows the falcon symbol of Castellan Braxis of
Bloodrise Keep. ‘I managed to escape when Mortis
attacked and took the keep. He still holds Braxis

299-300

prisoner for his own ends, but most of the soldiers
were slain. Well, that is to say, slain for a spell—and
then brought back. You know - as Zombies.’
Kandogor looks you over and adds, ‘I judge you to
be no friend of Mortis — tell me who you are.’

Will you tell Kandogor the truth about your mission
(turn to 327), or pass yourself off as an adventurer
who made the mistake of coming to Stayng at the
wrong time and who now just seeks to get off it as
soon as possible (turn to 367)?

299

The Giant Ant lies before you, unmoving. You walk
on a short distance until you become aware of a
great deal of noise up ahead, hissing and buzzing
sounds and a loud clicking as of a thousand crickets.
You recognize the sound made by the Giant Ant —
but now multiplied many times. Will you make your
way back to the chamber you came from (turn to 63)
or press on towards the noise (turn to 259)?

300
He tells you that various tales exist concerning the
Finger of Lhyss. “One is of local interest,’ he says,
‘because it claims that this ancient artefact now lies
on Stayng Island - indeed, that the Finger of Lhyss
is what we now call Whistlestone Tor, just a short
walk to the west of here. But personally I believe this
to be an over-literal story; my personal view is that
references to the Finger of Lhyss were intended by
the ancient poets as representing the immanence of

301-302

Luck in our lives. Stil, as ever, the truth is unknow-
able . .-.’

Before he can launch into a monologue on the
features of epic poetry, you make an excuse and
leave. You have wasted enough time already, after
all. If you have a whistle from the Temple of Lhyss,
turn to 134. Otherwise, you decide it is time to
hasten to the village of Keladon — turn to 165.

301

An arrow thuds into your chest. Fortunately your
armour takes most of the impact, but the head of the
arrow digs into your flesh. Deduct 2 points from
your STAMINA. Witha snarl you pull the arrow out
and run at them, brandishing your sword. Curs-
ing, the pirates drop their bows and draw their
cutlasses. Turn to 381.

302
You stand upon the battlements of Bloodrise Keep.
The sun still has an hour or more to go before
setting, and its slanting rays bathe the east tower,
directly ahead of you at the far end of the wall, ina
lustrous amber glow. The sunlight will prevent
most of the more powerful Undead from coming out
here. Reduce your Alarm Value by 1, and turn to 124.

393-397

303
The altar is a block of black stone draped in red
velvet, tattered and decayed. On it are laid a scroll
case, an ornate golden whistle and a potion labelled
‘Elixir of Lhyss’. You may take one of these from the
altar (turn to 334) or leave the temple without taking
anything (turn to 382).

304
The ivory spear streaks through the air and buries
itself in the traitor’s throat. His cry of dismay dies
away. However, his hand is already on the ballista
catch as he falls forward. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 319. If you are Unlucky, turn to 344.

305
The shaman breathes his last. His staff clatters to the
ground, but it is still draining your life force! Will
you leave immediately (turn to 356) or stay and take
the time to restore the altar of the White Queen to its
original state (turn to 78)?

306
You have destroyed the patrol without undue
noise. Turn to 324.

397
You give him the amulet. Cross it off your Adventure
Sheet. ‘Thank you,’ he mutters politely and hands
you the potion. “Drink it straight away,’ he
suggests. You do so, and now you find yourself
more determined, able to face any horror: Note that

308-309

on the next two occasions when you are asked to
Test your Resolve you will automatically succeed, and
need not roll the dice (however, your RESOLVE will
not increase on these two occasions).

He bids you good day and you climb out and leave
Benari. Turn to 116.

308
The Elixir is in fact a Potion of Healing: you may
regain up to 6 lost STAMINA points. Return to the
paragraph whose number you noted.

309

You manage to throw off the effects of Lady Lot-
mora’s hypnosis, and she screams in rage. She and
her coven advance to the attack with fangs bared
and hands that end in blackened talons ready to tear
at you. To your horror, Kandogor runs towards the
Vampiress; you try to shout a warning to him, but
Lady Lotmora does nothing. Instead, Kandogor
turns to sneer at you: ‘You fool, I have sworn to
serve Mortis. You and your pitiful Elven friend are
doomed!’

Lady Lotmora smiles evilly. “Thank you, Kandogor,
you have done well,’ she says. Slowly the group
advances on you. Elindora takes on two of the

7 “
ae PL Tet ft

;

moe

‘es ’ a) OT OR?
Oe
“*

313-314

to rob this tomb, Will you examine the contents of
the tomb (turn to 372) or take the spear from the
dead body (turn to 272)?

313

As you make your way back, you observe a patrol of
skeletal guards standing at the entrance to the inner
keep, Stepping back irito the shadows before you
can be spotted, you watch to see what the skeletons
will do, They hesitate at the doorway for a moment,
milling about as if reluctant to venture into the open
sunlight, Then, with a clatter of antique arms and
armour, they shuffle outside and the great door
creaks shut behind them. This gives you heart, for
you know that the main search forintruders must be
concentrated in the outer keep — you have already
got past the first line of the enemy’s defences. Add 1
to your LUCK and RESOLVE and reduce your Alarm
Value by 2. From here, your only untried route lies
through a door in the right-hand wall of the porch.
Turn to 230

314
Reaching the hold where the prisoners are presents
no problems. When you arrive, the villagers are still
being chained to low benches beside the oars by
three pirates. You take out your weapon, catching
the pirates completely by surprise. You cut two of
them down, but not before the third has run on deck
and given the alarm. You race after him, only to find
the whole crew alerted and coming for you. Youcan
do nothing but try to get away now. You leap over
315-316

the side and swim to the shore. Racing up the beach,
you are pursued by several pirates, some armed
with bows. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to
go. If you are Unlucky, turn to 59,

315

You edge forward into the space beyond the door
and find yourself in a vestibule hung with musty
black drapes. Double doors lead to a chamber
beyond this. As your eyes get accustomed to the
darkness, you see that a forbidding emblem has
been etched like a bloodstain across the doors: the
outline of a horned skull. If you wish to flee back
down the stairs and out of the castle, turn to 396. If
you have the courage to throw open the doors, turn
to 378.

316
The Golem totters and falls to the sand with an
earth-shaking crash; you have defeated it. . . Then
you are back at Stayng Island. Beside you, the tor is
nothing but a heap of shattered rubble, Suddenly
and without any warning a cloud of blue energy

SS —————-_ = se a oS

317-319

rises from its remains and arcs towards you. Before
you can do anything about it, you are bathed in an
electrifying aura of energy. There is a moment of
utter agony ... and then it is gone, leaving you
feeling stronger and mightier than before. Lhyss,
the Goddess of Luck, has favoured you. Add 3 to
your Initial and current LUCK, 1 to your SKILL and 4
to your STAMINA. You decide to continue with your
trip to Keladon. Turn to 165.

317

The ballista is designed to be operated by a team,
and you know that Kandogor will not be able to
work it easily single-handed. He will get the chance
for just a single shot in the time it will take you to
reach the gatehouse. If you charge straight forward,
turn to 155. If you decide to run in a zig-zag as you
advance, turn to 180.

318
You crouch down behind some jars in the corner of
the room and wait for things to quieten down a bit.
Reduce your Alarm Value by 2, After a short while
you decide it is now safe to go on. Will you go
through the right-hand door (turn to 199) or straight
ahead (turn to 140)?

319
Kandogor falls right across the device, preventing
the bolt from being released. You breathe a sigh of
relief and go up to the gatehouse roof to retrieve the
spear. You are not sure even now whether it was
320

luck or magic that guided your aim, but you are
heartened by having escaped the fate Kandogor
intended for you, Many more perils await you in the
keep, but for now you may regain 1 LUCK point
Turn to 246.

320
‘According to legend,’ says Garond, ‘the Charm
was taught to certain wise women of old by their
goddess, the White Queen, a deity of succour and
solace whom the Elves worship under another
name. This Charm works on any dead thing, such
as bone or unliving flesh, turning it instantly to
dust. In the lay, as you will recall, the White
Queen's followers used it to destroy the skeletal
swordsmen whom Mortis sent to assassinate
Qadarnai in his tent on the night before the battle.’
You ask if he himself knows the Charm, but he
explains that he does not. ‘The only person who
might know itis Lady Iola, the mother of Braxis. She
reveres the White Queen, and since [ have met her I
can attest to her holiness. But now that Bloodrise
Keep has failen to Mortis, it is probable that Lady
lola and her son have been slain,’ he adds sadly.

:

321

You begin another question, but he interrupts:
‘Now I must take my leave of you, for I have
developed quite a thirst with all my singing, and I
fully intend to make serious inroads on yonder
barrel of ale! Goodbye, young warrior; I hope that
one day I will sing a song in praise of your own
triumphs...’ He leaves, Having wasted enough
time already, you decide it is time to leave and make
your way to the village of Keladon. Turn to 165.

321
You are taken to see Belar, the village headman. You
tell him that you are on a mission for Chaideshu, to
find out what has happened to Braxis and to kill
Mortis.

Belar is suitably impressed. ‘We haven’t had so bad
a time of it around here,’ he explains, ‘at least as far
as Mortis and his Undead go. It was a sad blow to
hear of Braxis’s defeat, for he was a just and fair
lord. However, our food situation is worsening, for
the other villages — especially those nearest Blood-
rise Keep — have been very badly hit by the ravages
of marauding Undead, It is difficult to carry on
trading, and we are forced to turn refugees away
and to fortify ourselves against Mortis’s raiders. The
villagers here live in constant fear. And now
another terror has come to plague us: some hideous
monster has made its lair in the hills and is attacking
the village from time to time, destroying our stores
and buildings and carrying off people to eat. This is
a simple village - we have no heroes. But now that
322-323

you have come along, you could free us from this
thing! We will pay you well, no less than fifty Gold
Pieces, a princely sum for humble folks like us. Kill
the beast for us!’

Will you ask for more information concerning this
beast (turn to 361) or ask Belar if he knows the
whereabouts of Mortis’s tomb (turn to 12)?

322

The sudden shock of finding yourself face to face
with one of the living dead is too much for you.
Breaking the creature’s grip with superhuman
strength, you turn and flee for your life ~ and you
don’t stop until you have regained your senses . ,
and put a good distance between yourself and the
monstrosity. Nor will anything convince you to
return. You may flee either towards Borgos (turn to
85) or to Benari village (turn to 223).

323

Holding the torch aloft, you set off down the middle
tunnel; it has been hewn from the solid rock with
pickaxe and chisel and looks like a gallery in an old
mine. You follow a series of twisting passages, but
they seem to lead nowhere. You try to retrace your
steps, but you are soon hopelessly lost. Test your
Luck. lf you are Lucky, turn to 260. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 295.

324-325

324
You continue along the corridor. After walking a
short distance, you notice a door on your left
marked ‘Chapel of the White Queen’, The White
Queen is a local goddess of love and life. Will you
enter the chapel (turn to 266) or keep going along
the corridor (turn to 31)?

325

You set off on the road that leads to the village of
Keladon, through Shamdabag Wood, Aftera while,
the trees of the forest loom ahead of you; the road
snakes among the thick and ancient oaks, dimly lit
by a sun that struggles to penetrate their heavy
branches. By late afternoon you are well into the
wood, when you hear sounds coming from your
left. Through the trees you can just make out some
kind of a clearmg with, in its centre, a large fire,
Voices, some singing, waft towards you, together
with the smell of roasting food, Will you investigate
the clearing (turn to 168) or continue on towards
Keladon (turn to 165)?

326-327

326
You hurl the spear at the running figure. Roll two
dice: if the total rolled is greater than your SKILL,
you have missed him —turn to 296, If the total is less
than or equal to your SKILL, your aim is true and
you hit the fleeing traitor, killing him instantly.

Elindora sighs with relief. ‘No wonder he was so
keen to discredit me,’ she says. When you go to
retrieve your spear, you notice a bunch of iron keys
attached to the dead traitor’s belt and you decide to
take them (make a note of them on your Adventure
Sheet). Now turn to 386.

327
You tell him about your mission to destroy Mortis
and rescue Braxis, if at all possible. He nods ex-
citedly. ‘Good news,’ he says, ‘for 1am a veteran of
Braxis’s garrison, and am eager to avenge my lord
and serve my country.’ He looks keenly at you. “Let
me accompany you; I will make you an invaluable
companion. As for the strange behaviour of the
people at this inn — a coven of Vampires have taken
over the cemetery and are terrorizing the area; but

328

we should travel on to Bloodrise Keep as soon as
possible and destroy Mortis. When that is done, all
the Undead on this island will be equally destroyed.
Come, let us take a room for the night, and be on our
way tomorrow. Together we can succeed, where
one alone would be defeated!’

It feels good, having a companion to help you on
your lonely quest. You decide to share a room, so
that one of you can remain awake at all times in case
of attack during the night from Vampires. Turn to
169.

328

The excitement has died down now, and you are
just sidling to the back door when the bos’n says,
‘Wait a moment — who the hell are you anyway?’
The pirates turn to stare. “Never seen his like be-
fore,’ says one. “Get him, lads!’ cries another, and
several make a rush at you, drawing their sabres.
Turn to 297.

334-335

334
You are about to pick up one of the items when a

disturbance of the air distracts you. Looking up, you
see an Opaque crimson gas swirling and coalescing
into human shape before your very eyes. Seconds
later, a tall being stands where moments ago there
was but empty air: it is covered from head to toe in
armour fashioned out of scarlet metal, antique in
style but uncorroded. Two pinpricks of ruby light
sparkle behind the visored helm. A deep voice
resonates from within: ‘lam the Temple Guardian.
The Gifts of Lhyss are not so easily won, mortal
adventurer. First you must defeat me!’ Its hollow
laughter echoes through the vaulted chamber as it
brandishes its weapons — a long thin sword in each
hand. You must fight.

TEMPLE GUARDIAN — SKILLg9 STAMINA10

Each time you succeed in wounding the Guardian,
roll another die. On a roll of 1-4, your blow is
slightly deflected by some ludicrously unlucky
event, and you must subtract 1 point from the
damage you do. On a roll of 5 or 6, your blow is
rendered more effective by some equally pre-
posterous stroke of fortune: add 1 to the damage
you inflict. If you win, turn to 368.

335
Most are just ashes and embers, revealing nothing

of interest. However, in the remains of one building
you spot a trapdoor set into the floor. Will you lift it
and go down (turn to 80) or decide to leave the
village (turn to 116)?

336-338

336
‘Don't touch the grating,’ Braxis gasps. ‘Mortis
sealed it with his own black-gloved hand, and there
1s no doubt that a sorcerer such as himself would
know if anyone were to disturb it. You can come
back for me later if your mission is successful.’

You grudgingly admit that he is right. ‘Endure this
humiliation but a few hours more, then, castellan,’
you mutter, turning to go. ‘By nightfall, if the gods
smile on us, Lord Mortis will have died another
death.’ Turn to 146.,

337
Making your way through the town you come at last

to an open courtyard with a well in the middle. The
clacking noise is much closer now, just round the
corner of a building near by, you judge. Will you
climb down the well and hide (turn to 265) or head
straight for the noise (turn to 389)?

338

Fora moment you panic— you cannot remember the
words — then they come back to you and you recite
them in a spirit of uncanny calm. Immediately a
crackling sound comes from the dam of bones: it
reminds you of the sound of a frozen pond melting
in the morning sun. The whole structure shifts
alarmingly; you have to jump for your life on to a
spur of rock just as the dam gives way and a torrent
of water surges down towards the keep. Lord Mor-
tis himself is engulfed, and almost at once you lose
sight of his flailing limbs amid the debris of bone
and shrouds that is swept down from the hills.

338

You make your way back to the keep, to find the
castellan and his mother safe outside it. ‘I was able
to free my son while the evil one’s attention was
elsewhere,’ she explains.

You look towards the castle, now once more sur-
rounded by a moat of fresh water which Mortis’s
undead troops cannot cross. They cluster on the
walls, blind faces staring out hopelessly for some
sight of their lost lord. Then a terrible soft moan
nses into the night sky from a thousand unliving
throats, and you see the glimmer of torches. Sud-
denly sparks shoot up the sides of the great east
tower. ‘They're setting fire to the keep!” you say,
‘Why?’

‘Perhaps they prefer destruction to remaining as
they are,’ mutters the castellan. ‘Who would not”

The three of you stand and watch all through the
night as a great conflagration spreads through the
castle, casting a hot red light like spilled blood
across the hills. By morning all that remains of
Bloodrise Keep is the hollow, smouldering shell of
the walls. Then you behold a miraculous sight; a
flock of white birds, perhaps a thousand or more,
nses up from the ruins and soars into the silvery
morning sky.

‘The souls of those whom Mortis made undead,’
says Lady lola. ‘Thank the Goddess, his destruction
has liberated them at last.’

Turn to 400.

339-340

339
You leave the inn just as night is falling. The lights

from the inn cast a ghostly pallor over the cemetery,
Curling mists wreathe the tombstones, an ow]
hoots, and a flapping sound as of bat-like wings
disturbs the blackness near by, You are just turning
towards the road when suddenly you find yourself
face to face with a woman of great beauty who
stands before you, her skin pale as the moon. But
the shocking thing about her is that her eyes are
twin orbs of bloody nightmare, and, when she
smiles, fangs glint in the dim light. Behind you,
several more figures close in for the kill. That is your
last memory; your adventure ends here.

340
He tells you that, according to legend, the Charm is
a powerful enchantment used by the priestesses of
the White Queen, the goddess of healing whom the
Wood Elves worship under another name. This
Charm works on any dead thing, such as bone or
unliving flesh, turning it instantly to dust. ‘The
White Queen’s followers used it in ancient times,’
he adds, ‘to undo the necromancy that animates the
Undead, laying them instantly to rest, for the twilit
hell of Undeath is abhorrent to that sweet goddess.’
You ask whether he himself knows the Charm, but
he admits that he does not. “The only person who
might know itis Lady Iola, the mother of Braxis, She
reveres the goddess; having met her, I can attest to
her holiness. But since Bloodrise Keep has fallen to
Mortis, itis probable that Lady Iola and her son have

341-343

been slain,’ he adds sadly. You start to ask another
question, but he says, ‘Now I must take my leave of
you, for I have a pressing engagement involving
some boisterous friends, a full wineskin, and a
game of dice! Farewell, young warrior.’

He leaves. Do you have a whistle from the Temple
of Lhyss? If so, turn to 134. Otherwise, you can
conlinue on your way to Keladon; turn to 165

341
Incredibly, you manage to reach them unscathed
Cursing, they drop their bows, and draw their
cutlasses. Turn to 381.

342
You catch the Skull Beast completely by surprise:
note that you will automatically win the first two
rounds of combat when you fight it. First, however,
if you have been to Benari and spoken with its chief,
Morlak, turn to go. If you have not, turn to 115.

343
You test the padlock and find the door securely

locked. If you have an iron key (whether a single key
or a bunch), turn to 264. If you haven’t, you are
unable to open the door and must go up the tower
instead — turn to 163.

Ul
{
me?
I
t
|

—-*

344-346

344
The ballista moves to one side as the traitor falls, but

still he manages to free the weapon with the last of
his strength. You try to leap aside, but you are too
slow: the bolt hits you in the shoulder, gashing you
severely, even though it was only a glancing blow;
deduct 3 points from your STAMINA. If yousurvive,
you stagger up to the gatehouse roof and recover
your spear. Turn to 246.

345
You take the box and open it. Immediately, it ex-

plodes in your face. Deduct 4 points from your
STAMINA. If you are still alive, Jarmesh cackles in
tnumph and comes at you again with his sword.

CAPTAIN JARMESH _— sxi1.18
If you wound him again, turn to 125.

STAMINA 4

346

You grab the puffball from your backpack. ‘Hah!’
snorts the despicable Kandogor. ‘How do you think
that’s going to save you?’ However, his derisory
laughter changes to a gasp of alarm when you throw
the puffball to the ground and it immediately
releases a cloud of purple ‘smoke’ - actually
thousands of microscopic spores — which give you
cover while you race forward into the gatehouse.
Cross the puffball off your Adventure Sheet and turn
to 366.

347-350

347
You are knocked unconscious by Baracas. When

you come to, you find yourself chained to an oaras a
galley-slave in a pirate ship. There will be no escape
for many years, if ever. You have failed in your
mission and your adventure ends here,

348

You ask among the villagers for Farmer Jervas and
his wife Mrynie to step forward. They do, and you
tell them that their son is safe in the cellar of their
house. They are overjoyed at the news and cannot
thank you enough. ‘Here, take this,’ says Farmer
Jervas. ‘It is an old family heirloom and is the only
thing of value we have to give.’ He hands you a ruby
gem, set in gold and hanging on a chain. It is the
Amulet of Ages; note it on your Adventure Sheet.
Turn to 398.

349
Before you can catch it, the second Zombie guard

escapes, no doubt to report back to its superiors.
Add 3 to your Alarm Value. Turn to 324.

350
The rest of the night passes without incident and
you sleep well. The next morning you are ready for
the keep. You follow the road that skirts the River
Scort up into the hills until you can see the keep
ahead. Tur to 2.

ee

351-352

351
The last pirate falls dead. On their bodies you find 7

Gold Pieces in loot. You may now search the bunga-
low (turn to 71) or the stables (turn to 291), if you
have not already done so. Alternatively you can
investigate the temple (turn to 171) or the village hall
(turn to 131), or you can leave the village and go to
the-cove where the fishing boats should be (turn to

311)

352

Khiro leads you over rough ground and along a
tortuous mountain trail that you could never have
found on your own. Eventually you are confronted
by a set of double doors setin a broad rock-face. The
doors are jet black and are adorned with a large
skull, imprinted into the wood in silver, You turn to
thank Khiro for guiding you here, but he has
already turned tail and fled, Quickly you check your
gold pouch — it is still there, to your relief. You
approach the doors. On a lintel above the portal are
these words:

Herein lies the body of the necromancer Mortis, slain in
battle by the sun-bright spear of the hero Qadarnat
Thrice-cursed is Mortis for his many evils. May he remain
here for all time

You notice that one of the doors is slightly ajar. Faint
tracks still mark the passage of a person or persons
through the doors. Steeling yourself, you step into
the shadowy darkness beyond. Turn to 212.

353-355

353
Passing through Shamdabag Wood without incid-

ent, you head across country, avoiding the inn,
until you strike the road heading east. Turn to 46.

354
Hastily putting on some of Jarmesh’s clothing, you

are able to cross the deck to the hold without being
stopped. Only one pirate is guarding the villagers,
who are all chained to their oars. It is an easy matter
to take the pirate by surprise, and soon he is uncon-
scious and bound. The prisoners can hardly believe
their eyes — at last they have reason to hope. How-
ever, you don’t have much time before someone
will come to check up on them. Will you use the
captain’s keys to free them all now (turn to 114) or
free one of them and go with him to get weapons
from the armoury (turn to 79)?

355
Even though your battle was conducted in eerie

silence, without the usual exchange of oaths and
war-cries, there is still a chance that the sound of
clashing swords will have carried up the stairwell.
Roll one die twice, subtracting the second number
rolled from the first. If the resultis greater than zero,
add that number to your Alarm Value. Now you can
either head up the stairs (turn to 163) or go down to
the padlocked door you noticed earlier (turn to 343).
356-358

356
You run out before you can suffer any more dam-
age. You may now Search some of the larger houses
in the village (turn to 51), if you have not already
done so. Alternatively, you can investigate the vil-
lage hall (turn to 131) or Jeave the village and go to
the cove where the fishing boats should be (turn to

311)

357
Terrified, you race back up the path to Borgos in

panic. You re-enter the town, where you come to
your senses once more. Turn to 30.

358

You head up into the hills above Bloodrise Keep,
guided by the muddy ditch which now takes the
place of the stream that used to feed into the moat.
Gnats swarm in the last warmth of the setting sun;
lulled by the sound of crickets and of seagulls
wheeling overhead, you could almost forget the
horror of the last few hours. Then you catch sight of
the most gruesome sight of all, and your blood
thickens like cold quicksilver. Ahead, blocking the
mouth of the stream, is a dam built entirely of
human bones: skulls, spines, pelvic bones, rib-
cages and the bones that once were limbs are all
piled up, tangled together in an awful, grisly heap,
the gaps filled in with grave-dirt and decaying
shrouds. Water, turned black and unwholesome by
its passage, seeps slowly through this nightmarish
wall.

359

You begin to clamber up the dam, oblivious of the
sharp splinters of bone that pierce your hands. All
you can think of is that you must find a way to
smash the dam, release the pent-up water so it can
flow cleanly once more in the moat round the keep.
Then you catch sight of a tall figure clad all in
tarnished silver, riding out from the castle on a
pallid charger. He has a couched lance of sere black
wood, and the pennant he flies is the symbol of
plague. Lord Mortis himself! He is venturing out
before the sun has set, so you must present a real
threat to him. A phalanx of skeletal spearmen march
behind him, but they falter at the castle gates and
seem fearful of venturing out. Mortis glances back
and acknowledges their cowardice with a guttural
snarl that cracks across the hills like thunder. It
makes your heart quail to think that such a sound
could come from any human throat. Turn to 250.

359
You search in the southwest of the graveyard, once

again to no avail. Time trickles on into the late
afternoon. Elindora is becoming visibly agitated.
‘We must find them today — they will be alerted
tonight and will surely seek us out. We cannot
afford to delay until another day!’ Will you search
the northeast corner (turn to 60) or the southeast
(turn to 170)?

360-363

360
His face blanches. ‘Protection,’ he mutters under his
breath, before hurrying off into the kitchen, plainly
terrified. You may now talk to the farmers (turn to
135} or to the merchant (turn to 64) or, if you have
finished talking, turn to 273.

361
‘No one has seen it clearly,’ Belar stutters. ‘It seems
toad-like, but it is furry. What we do know for sure
is that it has a powerful tail that it can use to smash
down walls. For this reason we call it the Thrasher.
Please, will you accept the mission?’ If you accept,
turn to 52. If you decline, turn to 332.

362
You climb the spiral stairs until you reach a landing.
In the wall opposite you see a narrow door, which
probably leads out on to the battlements. If you
wish to go through it, turn to 302. Alternatively, you
can continue up the stairs to the top of the tower
(turn to 83).

363

The sun sinks and black night claims the cemetery
forits own, The surviving Vampires howl exultantly
and actually seem to grow in stature and power
before your very eyes — even their wounds seem to
heal over. Elindora curses. You must fight on, but
now add 5 STAMINA and 2 SKILL points to each
Vampire. Go to the last paragraph of 120 and fight to
a finish.

364-366

364

Before you can break away from your struggle with
the Werewight, the Vampire women have flitted
around behind you. You feel slender, dead-white
fingers touch your shoulder; in that instant, it is as
though your veins have been emptied of blood and
have then been refilled with icy water. Driving the
frenzied Werewight away with luminous glares,
they turn you round and lower their ruby lips to
your warm flesh. Theirs is the kiss that damns a
mortal to unliving hell, and you are powerless to
resist. From now ort, you will skulk tn Mortis’s
vaults like a grave-worm, fearing the daylight and
wanly exulting in the soulless evil of your dread
lord. Your adventure ends here.

365

You kill the three Zombies quickly and efficiently,
but in doing so you have made some noise. Add 1 to
your Alarm Value. Close examination of the room
reveals nothing of interest, but one of the Zombies is
carrying a pouch. Inside are 10 Gold Pieces and an
iron key (note them on your Adventure Sheet). Leav-
ing the room, you contmue on your way down the
corridor into the depths of the keep. Turn to 140.

366
Kandogor is waiting for you with his sword drawn
as you mount the gatehouse steps. He gives a
scream of frustrated rage as you parry his first blow.
He can see from the look in your eyes that his time is
numbered.

367-368

KANDOGOR SKILL8
If you defeat him, turn to 246.

STAMINAS

367
For a moment he looks suspicious . . . and then he
seems to accept your story. ‘Well, good luck,’ he
says before leaving.

You retire to your roomand bed down for the night.
You notice that your window is already barred and
surrounded by a wreath of wild garlic flowers; so is
the door, both inside and out. Puzzled, you lie
down. You are just drifting off to sleep when a
sound coming from outside your door alerts you.
You Jeap up and draw your sword just as the door
slowly opens, revealing the black-cowled figure,
who starts in surprise to see you ready and waiting.
Will you attack immediately (turn to 229) or wait a
few seconds to see what will happen (turn to 395)?

368

Your last blow seems to cut through thin air as the
Temple Guardian dissipates into nothingness. You
pick up the Golden Whistle from the altar (note it on
your Adventure Sheet). The scroll reads: ‘Blow the
whistle at the Finger of Lhyss to win great power.’
You may also take the Elixir of Lhyss. Whenever
you wish to drink the potion, note the number of the
paragraph you are currently reading, then turn to
35, Once you have finished, return to the paragraph
you have noted and read on. You also find a pouch
containing 25 Gold Pieces.
369-370

To leave the temple, turn to 382. If you wish to use
the Ring of Communing and ask General
Chaideshu what he knows about the Finger of
Lhyss, turn to 96.

369

On closer inspection, you become aware that the
bodies are all those of destroyed Zombies or
Skeletons, the soldiers of Mortis; at least the in-
habitants of Benari put up a fight. Presumably the
villagers themselves are now Zombies in the service
of Mortis. In one corner of the village you find a
shrine to some local deity, At the foot of the rough
stone altar lies a body which does not appear to have
been one of the Undead, Will you investigate this
body (turn to 205), leave Benari (turn to 116), or look
over the ruined buildings (turn to 335)?

370

The cross-country walk to the old battle-site is
almost pleasant. You arrive at last in a wide green
meadow with an old standing stone near by, in-
scribed with the history of this ancient battle. Look-
ing around, you see that in all directions the earth is
churned up as if by hundreds of labourers digging
for treasure. The few named graves that you find are
all open and empty. It is as if the dead had woken
from their sleep to do battle once more. You ex-
amine the plaque on the standing stone. It reads.

Here was fought a great battle between the hero
Qadarnai and his knights against the necromancer

371

Mortis and his undead servants Amongst the ser-
vants of Mortis were the Battalion of Ancient Bones,
skeletal warriors without number, and the dreaded
Knights of Alptraum, the honour guard of Mortis,
summoned to him from other worlds. Terrible in
battle are they, for they can never be fully laid to
rest. Their power is great and the fear of them is
all-encompassing. Yet the great hero, aided by the
White Queen, did overcome them and their master,
although he lost his own life in doing so

There is nothing else of interest here on the old site.
Will you now head north for Port Borgos (turn to 85)
or northeast into the hills and thence to Bloodrise
Keep (turn to 2)?

371
The door splinters in two after a single powerful
kick. Lighting a torch you descend into the gloom of
the cellar. A low ceiling forces you to stoop slightly
as you make your way among several barrels of
dried fish and poor-quality wine. You hear someone
whimpering fearfully, and huddled in the corner
you find a fat boy, about six or seven years old and
clearly terrified. He thinks you must be a pirate. It
takes you some time to reassure him that he is safe
and then he blurts out his tearful story. It seems a
pirate ship arrived without warning at the cove, and
fifty or more buccaneers stormed the village,
marching off most of the villagers to the hold of their
ship, to be sold as slaves. Those who resisted were
brutally slain. The boy tells you that his name is Paz
and that his father is Farmer Jervas, and his mother
372-374

Mistress Mrynie, both of whom he thinks were
taken away. ‘Please help me,’ he pleads pitifully as
he wipes his eyes on your cloak. Will you tell him to
stay hidden here while you try to find his parents
(turn to 271) or leave the house and take him with
you (turn to 151)?

372
You find nothing else of interest. Will you take the

spear (turn to 272) or leave this desolate place and
return to Siltport (turn to 232)?

373
The night passes without incident— but the house is

cold and you do not sleep particularly well. In the
morning you set off up the Scort River towards
Bloodrise Keep. Turn to 2.

374
You explore the southeast part of the graveyard, but

again to no avail. Time trickles on into the late
afternoon. Elindora is becoming visibly agitated.
‘We must find them today — they will be alerted
tonight and will certainly seek us out. We cannot
afford to wait for another day!’ Will you now search
in the northeast corner (turn to 60) or the northwest
(turn to 170)?

375-376

375
Hefting the iron mace, you tum to strike whatever is

behind you. Turn to 109.

376
The back of the door-handle is as sharp as a razor,

but you do not notice this until you try to open it —
and then you succeed in gashing your right hand
badly. You tear strips from your tunic to staunch the
flow of blood; but you must fight with your other
hand for the rest of the adventure: deduct 1 point
from your SKILL. Cursing this ill-luck, you manage
to prise the door open without touching the handle
again — only to reveal a blank wall. You will have to
choose one of the other two doors: either the one
with the picture of a serpent (turn to 172) or the one
with the picture of a tree (turn to 100).

377-378

377

You reach the door leading to the apartments at the
top of the tower, This door has Mortis’s seal upon it,
and it is with some trepidation that you swing it
open. As you do so, an ominous creaking sound
comes from its hinges, carrying into the dark still-
ness beyond. Roll two dice and add 4 to the total
rolled. If this number is less than or equal to your
Alarm Value, turn to 76. If it is greater, turn to 315,

378
If your Alarm Value ig 9 or more, turn to 56. Ifitis 8 or

less, turn to 48

379

379
You sprint across the courtyard, the afternoon sun

warming your bones. You haven't much time: soon
twilight’s shadows will ight your way, dread night
will fall across the castle like a shroud and the living
dead will stalk these walls. The gate looms above
you, a huge edifice of crenellated stone. The two
doors are of iron-bound oak, carved with the in-
signia of the Triumvirate. They are not even closed,
so sure is Mortis of his invulnerability. All is quiet.
Stepping in, you find yourself in an arched en-
tranceway. Ahead of you, a raised portcullis leads to
the inner bailey of the castle. As your eyes grow
accustomed to the gloom, you see a door set into the
wall on either side. Suddenly, out of the shadows
two figures emerge. They are dressed in ragged
armour, grimed with rust, and they wield strange,
ornately barbed swords, equally rusty but none the
less deadly. Their eyes stare blankly at you, their
faces ghastly masks of worm-eaten decay. Zombies!
The sight of these undead things fills you with
terror. First, add 1 to your Alarm Value; next, Test
your Resolve. If you fail to make the roll, you are
trembling with fear while fighting them — subtract 1
from your sKILt for the duration of this fight only. If
you succeed in the roll, fight on normally. You must
fight them one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
First
UNDEAD GUARD 7 i)
Second
UNDEAD GUARD 6 10
380

If you kitl them and are yourself wounded twice or
more, turn to 188. If you kill them but take only one
wound or none, turn to 384.

380

‘Legend tells of the great battle fought between
Mortis’s legions and the true men of Stayng,’
Garond intones. ‘It was at this battle that Qadarna:
sought out Mortis himself and clashed with him ina
dreadful death-duel. Although Qadarnai’s spear
was wrought specifically to slay the Undead, its
power was weakened by contact with living flesh
Thus it was that Qadarnai, knowing this, was able
to slay Mortis only by throwing the spear with the
last of his strength as he fell, dying, from a charring
blast of sorcerous energy. Untouched by living
hands, the spear’s power was at its height and
struck Mortis dead in an instant. But it was a victory
won by Qadarnai, as I have said, at the cost of his
own life.’ You are about to begin another question
when he says, ‘Ah well, it has been good talking to
you, but now other matters are claiming my atten-
tion. , .’ You observe a comely young girl waving
to him from across the clearing. He smiles and
waves back. ‘Farewell, young warrior,’ he says,
shaking you by the hand and turning away before
you can say a word. Do you have a whistle from the
Temple of Lhyss? If so, turn to 134. If you do not,
you decide to resume your journey to Keladon —
turn to 165.

381-382

381
You must fight the pirates.

SKILL STAMINA

First

CHAOS PIRATE 6 6
Second

CHAOS PIRATE 7 5
Third

CHAOS PIRATE 8 7

You must fight the first two together — the third
awaits the outcome and will then fight you singly. If
you win, turn to 241.

382
As you step through the doors of the Temple of
Lhyss into bright sunshine, you suddenly feel a
warm glow inside. Add 1 to your Initial and current
LUCK. Smiling happily, you continue onward. Turn

to 94.

383

383

Following the path from the village, you walk down
a rocky hillside that leads to the beach. There is a
wooden quay here and several burning fishing
boats are moored to it. At the end of the quay is a
large warship equipped with several banks of oars
and large black sails, adorned with a crimson skull
symbol, the mark of the Chaos pirates. The ship’s
name is painted on her sides: the Merciless. You seea
column of prisoners — the villagers of Keladon —
being led in chains on to the pirate ship. Several
pirates —- men, Orcs, Hobgoblins and the like — are
brutally whipping them aboard. At the gangway,
you see two figures overseeing the operation. They
wear full black armour that covers them from head
to foot, inlaid with weird patterns of red tracery.
You recognize them as dreaded Chaos Knights. Will
you decide there is nothing you can do here and
leave Keladon (tur to 186); or will you try and get
on board, either by attacking now (turn to 45), by
disguising yourself as a prisoner and joining the
column of would-be slaves (turn to 45), by swim-
ming out to sea a short distance and approaching
the ship from the other side (turn to 274) or by using
the Ring of Fays, if you have it (turn to 224)?

384~386

384
You defeat the Zombies quickly and with minimal
noise. Will you now go out into the courtyard (turn
to 286), go through the door to the right (turn to 230)
or through the door to the left (turn to 128)?

385

You stare down anxiously, your body pressed into
the shadows behind the balustrade in case any of
the knights in the hall below should look up.
However, it seems that the noise of your fight did
not carry down to them — or perhaps they are sunk
in deathly torpor until nightfall. You have escaped
their immediate attention, but the disappearance of
the two Undead you have destroyed will not go
unnoticed; add 2 to your Alarm Value. If you now
want to see what is on the other side of the door
where the knights came from, turn to 184. If you
want to go back along the gallery and up the main
stairs to the top of the tower, turn to 377.

386
After burning the bodies to make sure that they are
properly destroyed, you and Elindora leave the
cemetery. Elindora says that it is time for you to
part, as she must report back to the Elves. She
thanks you solemnly, saying that she could not
have succeeded without you. She then gives you a
ring of pale silver, with a strange pattern cut into it
‘This is the Ring of Fays; itis rich with Elven sorcery
and will aid you according to your needs at the time
you summon forth its power. You may call upon it

387

once only, so use it wisely. Farewell, brave warrior.’
She waves once and leaves.

You also have a mission to complete, Will you go
northeastwards on the road to Port Borgos (turn to
46), southeast towards Shamdabag Wood and then
on to the village of Keladon (turn to 325), or is this
time to use the Ring of Communing to consult with
General Chaideshu (turn to 93)?

387
The combatants go at each other hammerand tongs,
using head-butts, smashes, kicks, gouges, throws
and holds. There don’t appear to be any rules: only
weapons aren’t allowed. For a while the Ogre’s
superior size and weight seem to be winning him
the fight; but soon Baracas gets the measure of his
opponent and his superior skill shows through. He
manages to trip Grom — and suddenly Baracas has
him, face down on the ground, in a punishing
stranglehold. Grom is forced to submit. You have
lost. The excitement has died down now and you
are just sidling dejectedly to the back door when the
bos’n points at you and says, ‘Wait a moment — who
the hell are you anyway?’ The pirates turn to stare.
‘Never seen his like before,’ says one. ‘Get him,
lads!’ cries another, and several rush. you, drawing
their sabres. Turn to 297

a>
392-393

392
Cross off two Provisions from your Adventure Sheet.

The blacksmith happily takes both your sword and
the Provisions. He soon returns and, to your relief,
you find he has done a good job. You may add 1 to
the damge you inflict whenever you use this sword
in combat from now on. Turn to 192.

393
In a blind, mindless panic, not knowing what you

are doing, you dash straight into the sea. Desper-
ately you begin to swim, but you are assailed by the
ghostly dead and fear drives you under water. You
have become one with the Spirits of the Drowned
Your adventure ends here.

394

394
Half-way up the anchor-chain, a pirate on the shore

spots you and gives the alarm. You clamber up the
chain, but a couple of archers appear at the rail
above you and loose off half a dozen arrows.
You are hit and must deduct 3 points from your
STAMINA. If you are still alive, you fall back into the
sea. Under a hail of arrows you manage to dive
beneath the surface and swim away as fast as you
can. The pirates are alerted now, and you are forced
to flee Keladon and watch helplessly as the Merciless
puts out to sea with its cargo of innocent villagers.
Cursing the pirate scum, you turn away dejectedly.
Turn to 186.

395

395

Hurriedly, the figure pulls back the cow] — it is a
female Elf! Her skin is like moonlight, her large eyes
like liquid emeralds, and her brown hair is bound in
a circlet of white flowers, a picture of beauty. In a
lilting voice she says, ‘Please, listen tome. My name
is Elindora, and I am one of the few Elves who still
live in Shamdabag Wood. We are worshippers of
the goddess Iatro, She who Heals and Succours
The goddess loathes the Undead as abominable
travesties of life and has commanded us to help the
people to defeat Mortis. I have been forced to travel
in disguise, for his spies are everywhere, but when ]
saw youl knew your mission was as ours, to destroy
the Undead. Tell me, is this true?’

You expiain patiently that you are not a worshipper
of latro and that you have come here as a mercenary
adventurer to slay Mortis — for the money, not for
the people.

‘Thank the heavens some action is being taken at
last. But there is good in you — I can feel it,’ she
insists. You shrug resignedly. ‘I have come to beg
for your aid,’ she implores. ‘The cemetery holds the
tomb of Lady Lotmora, once the wife of Mortis.
Now that Mortis has returned, he has used his foul
necromancy to return her to the world — as a Vam-
pire. Now she terrorizes the area; she has already
built up a small coven of Vampires out of the local
population - or what remains of it. The priestess of
Iatro has sent me to destroy her, but I cannot
succeed alone. Help me, and I will aid you in your
quest to kill Mortis.’

396-397

Will you agree to help her (turn to 23); or do you
decide that your prime mission is to kill Mortis
himself and say that you cannot help (turn to 107)?

396

Hastily you cross the deserted courtyard and trudge
back through the rank mire that was once the
castle’s moat. From far off in the hills a wolf howls
into the sky — a sky which is now the colour of
rose-petals, with clouds like a wash of gold against
it. Has so much time passed since you arrived here,
then? Some fiendish sorcery must pervade the
keep, dulling the wits, so that you have barely
noticed the passage of time. Turn to 358.

397
Stark horror rises like a haze across your mind, and

you cannot prevent yourself from flinching as you
look upon the Zombie archers’ puffed, clammy
flesh and blank expressions. As you recover your
nerve to attack, the nearest Zombie crouches down
and the other two unleash black-fletched arrows
that rip into your shoulder; deduct 2 points from
your STAMINA. While you are engaged in hand-to-
hand combat with one of the undead archers, the
others will try to hit you with their arrows. To
determine whether an arrow hits, each Attack
Round roll two dice for each archer shooting. A
roll of 7 or below means that you have been hit:
lose 1 STAMINA point. However, a roll of 8 or
higher means that the arrow has hit the undead
creature you are fighting, and if loses 1 STAMINA
point.

398-399
SKILL STAMINA

First

UNDEAD ARCHER 7 5
Second

UNDEAD ARCHER 7 4
Third

UNDEAD ARCHER 7 4

If you defeat all three of them within eight Attack
Rounds, turn to 365. If you are shill fighting after
eight Rounds, turn to 247.

398
The blacksmith gives you 10 Gold Pieces and some
healing herbs, saying ruefully that this is all they
have left to give you (note these on your Adventure
Sheet). ‘You will always have a home here,’ he adds.
You may use the healing herbs just once to restore
up to 6 lost STAMINA points, You wave goodbye to
everyone, for they have all come to see you off. Your
quest beckons, Turn to 186.

399
You cannot resist the urge to give yourself up and

you sink to your knees. Horrified, you witness
Kandogor chuckling evilly as he walks over, to
stand beside Lady Lotmora. The Vampiress thanks
him for leading you to her. Elindora is unaffected,
but she is unable to defeat the Vampires alone. You
watch helplessly as she is hacked down and then is
brought back as a Vampire. Soon it will be your turn
.. . Your adventure ends here.

400

400
Your Ring of Communing crackles into life, even
though you believed you had used up all its energy.
Against the backdrop of your imagination you can
see General Chaideshu’s gruff, battle-scarred fea-
tures suspended in a void. ‘You have the thanks of
us all,” says his voice in your mind. ‘Without Mortis
at their head, the Chaos pirates will soon scatter
before our fleets. But the linchpin of our victory has
been the battle you fought today.’

You feel pride at his words — but you don’t let him
sense it. ‘Fine,’ you imagine yourself replying.
‘Now, how about sending a ship to get us off this
godforsaken island!’ You can look forward to a
hero’s welcome in Port Kanthos.

388-389

388

As you approach the gatehouse, the ballista seems
to be watching you like an ominous giant insect. It is
only your imagination, of course; without anyone to
operate it, the potentially lethal weapon is just a
harmless piece of machinery. Then again, what if
Mortis has left spells on it that could make it shoot of
its own accord? You try not to think of that pos-
sibility! it is with considerable relief that you reach
the gatehouse safely and pass on into the outer
bailey. Turn to 144.

389

You walk purposefully towards the noise. A foul-
looking creature scuttles round the corner — and it
looks intent on tearing you limb from limb. Most of
all it resembles a giant skull supported by a myriad
insect-like legs; but instead of chitin these legs are
made of skeletal bone. Several long, sinuous
tentacle-tongues rasp and writhe from the grinning
jaws, reaching for you, trying to grab you and draw
you to its snapping jaws. You recognize the legend-
ary Skull! Beast, a creature that lives in the Lands of
the Dead and which comes to Titan only when
summoned by some evil and powerful necromancer
like Mortis. Now you must defend yourself. If you
have been to Benari and have spoken with its head-
man, Morlak, turn to 50. If not, turn to 115.

390-391

390
‘Hah,’ he says, ‘is that not obvious? The return of
Mortis has ruined my trade! And the return of Lady
Lotmora, his hellish consort . . .” He blanches at the

very thought.

‘Who is this lady?’ you ask, but he just gives an
inarticulate cry of terror and runs off to the kitchen
You may now talk to the farmers (turn to 135) or to
the merchant (turn to 64) or, if you have finished
talking, turn to 273.

391

Following the path from the village, you walk down
a rocky hillside that leads to the beach. There is a
wooden quay here, with the huiks of several burn-
ing fishing boats moored to it. The sand has been
churned up by the passage of many booted feet, and
various objects litter the ground: a broken sandal, a
girl's small doll, an empty wineskin, and the like.
Other than this, the place is deserted. Looking out
to sea, you can just make out a sail in the far
distance. It looks like a Chaos pirate warship to you.
Evidently the whole population of Keladon has
been carried off into slavery by the pirates. De-
jected, you turn and leave Keladon to continue your
mission, Turn to 186.

5SEM 552

331

You discover nothing of interest until you come to a
cellar door that seems to be barred from the inside. It
is only of light construction and you could smash it
down easily tf you wished. If you want to go into the
cellar, turn to 371. If you want to search upstairs,
turn to 191. Alternatively, you can leave here and
search elsewhere. You may enter the bungalow
(turn to 71) or the stables (turn to 291), if you have
not already searched through these two buildings.
If you decide you have finished searching the
houses, you can investigate the temple (turn to 171)
or the village hall (turn to 131); alternatively, you
can leave the village and go to the cove where the
fishing boats should be (turn to 311).

332

You refuse to help, declaring that your mission is
more important than some joyride in the hills. The
villagers decide you are a coward, and glare at you
and spit when you pass by. The atmosphere is bad;
when you ask about the tomb of Mortis, which is in
these parts, you are met with stony silence. You are
left with no choice but to depart. Will you therefore
head south, back towards Siltport (turn to 3), or try
to find the tomb of Mortis yourself and set off for the
hills (turn to 112)?

333

333
The minstrel introduces himself and begins a ram-

bling introduction to what he is going to sing to-
night. He opens with some ballads and then recites
an epic poem about the ancient heroes. These are all
entertaining ~ but are of little interest to you. Just as
you are on the point of leaving, he begins a song
which at once draws and holds your attention. The
audience too seems particularly interested in this
song, which Garond calls ‘The Lay of Mortis and
Qadarnai’. It is a tale of the great warrior Qadarnai,
called the ‘War-Spear of the Sun’, who defeated
Mortis in his previous incarnation. Some parts of
the lay are most intriguing: Garond sings of a
charm, known by certain wise women, that unbinds
the sorcery which Mortis used to raise his armies
from the dead. Jn his song Garond also tells how
Qadarnai used his ivory spear to slay the necro-
mancer. Ina mythic interlude dealing with the gods’
overwatching of the battle, something called the
Finger of Lhyss is also mentioned — Lhyss being
the Goddess of Luck, who often intervened on
Qadarnai’s behalf.

When Garond’s song is finished, the crowd ap-
plauds and he bows, obviously satisfied with his
performance. You can talk to him now (turn to 127)
or, if you think you have spent enough time here,
you can leave and press on to the village of Keladon
(turn to 165).
310

Vampires while you must fight Lady Lotmora,
Kandogor and the other two. They come at you all at
once.

SKILL STAMINA

First VAMPIRE 7 9
Second VAMPIRE 6 8
LADY LOTMORA 12 18
KANDOGOR 7 7

Remember: if you have the Spear of Qadarnai, it will
do double damage against the Vampires (but not
against Kandogor). Whenever Lotmora hits you,
roll another die; on a roll of 1 or 2, she manages to
bite you and you lose 1 SKILL point (you may
however restore any lost SKILL points when you
win). If you reduce Kandogor’s sraMINA to 3 or
less, he will stop fighting and step back to watch,
just like the hopeless coward he really is. If you
manage to defeat them all, turn to 257.

310
You light a fire in the grate and soon smoke is
writhing up through the chimney, You bed down
for the night and are just dozing off when a loud
rattling noise awakens you. Without warning, the
door and half the wall are smashed to rubble and
a hideous creature Jumbers in towards you: it re-
sembles a giant skull perched on a myriad insect-
like legs made of skeletal bone. Several long,
sinuous tentacle-tongues rasp and writhe from the
grinning jaws, reaching for you, trying to grab you
and draw you into its snapping jaws. You recognize

311-312

the legendary Skull Beast, a creature that lives in the
Lands of the Dead and which comes to Titan only
when summoned by some evil and powerful necro-
mancer like Mortis. Now you must defend yourself.
If you have been to Benari and spoken with Morlak,
its headman, turn to 50. If not, turn to 115.

311
If you have already searched the village hall, the
temple and the larger houses of the village, turn to
391. If you have not searched all three of these areas,
turn to 383.

312
You manage to resist the awful fear that threatens to
overwhelm your mind. You open the doors wide to
let light into the tomb. Inside, you see a simple
square room, with symbols of the Good Gods
adoming the walls. in the centre is a large black
sarcophagus; its heavy stone lid is shattered and lies
around in pieces. Slumped to one side at the base of
the sarcophagus is the dead body of a man, clearly
an adventurer. You judge him to have died about
three weeks ago; his face is frozen in a fearfully
grinning mask of dread, and in his right hand he still
gups an old sword. His other hand holds a rune-
carved ivory spear. You step across and look inside
the sarcophagus, where the body of Mortis right-
fully belongs. Ali that is inside are some broken
chains, the links of which appear to have been tom
asunder. It looks as though the would-be tomb-
robber got more than he bargained for when he tried
329-330

329
You settle down and make a small fire, a few hun-
dred metres outside the town of Borgos. Fortu-
nately your night is undisturbed, and when dawn
comes you feel refreshed and ready for your coming
ordeal at the keep. You set off into the hills towards
the castle. Turn to 2.

oo
The corridor runs for a short distance, then opens
out into the stairwell of the east tower. A spiral
staircase leads up and down. Beside it stands a
Zombie guard; it turns its ravaged, dead face to you
and its dead-fish eyes glitter menacingly in the
torchlight. To your horror, you recognize an old
friend and veteran of the White Tiger Legion,
Davmori, who joined the border guards for a quiet
life. He staggers towards you, spear in hand. He
must have been killed by a blow to the body before
he was brought back as undead, for a wound in his
chest gapes horribly. A vile stench wafts over you,
making you gag in disgust. You call out his name,
but all intelligence has left this mindless thing.
Revulsion and horror course through your veins
like fire, Test your Resolve, If you fail, you scream in
horror and must add 2 to your Alarm Value. If you
succeed, you manage to stifle your fear. Whatever
the result, you must fight your old friend, Davmori.

DAVMORI
THE UNDEAD SKILL7 STAMINA8

If you win, turn to 290.
288

while, the tunnel widens, and now it appears to
have been dug out by some other kind of instru-
ment, something that has taken great gouges out of
the rock. A sound ahead of you causes you to pull
up short. Then from around a corner emerges a
strange-looking creature, resembling a Giant Ant.
Its antennae wave in the air in your direction
and the thing scuttles towards you, mandibles
twitching. You must fight it to survive.

GIANT ANT

If you win, turn to 299.

288

You round the corner and walk straight into two of
the living dead. Their flesh is a hideous scabrous
grey and their eyes are blank and lifeless. The smell
of the grave assails your nostrils and you are filled
with horror. Add 2 to your Alarm Value, then Test
your Resolve. If you succeed, fight them normally. If
you fail, for the first Attack Round you are paralysed
with fear and will have to deduct 4 points from your
STAMINA because your opponents get in a free hit
against you. Now fight them both at the same time

SKILL 7 STAMINAS8

SKILL STAMINA
First
UNDEAD GUARD 6 7
Second
UNDEAD GUARD 7 6

If you have still not killed one of the guards after
four Attack Rounds, turn to 349. If you have, and
then succeed in killing the other guard, turn to 306

289-290

289

You search the southeast part of the graveyard, yet
again to no avail. Time trickles on until the late
afternoon. Elindora is becoming visibly agitated.
‘We must find them today — tonight they will be
alerted and seek us out. We cannot afford to wait for
another day!’ Will you now search in the northeast
corner (turn to 60) or the southwest (turn to 170)?

2g0
You stand over the fallen body of your former
iriend, cursing Mortis’s perverted mind for trans-
forming Davmori into such a hideous unliving
vavesty. Wiping tears of rage from your eyes, you
scan the stairwell for exits. A short distance along
the wall, another archway leads out, but when you
‘ook down it you see it gives on to a long stretch of
empty corridor. Squinting up the stairs, you see a
zolden shaft of sunlight, which must be shining
through one of the arrowslits high in the wall,
ransforming the dust in the upper levels of the
tower. From the angle of the beam of light, you
vudge there to be perhaps an hour of daylight left. In
