-

Over 10 million copies sold worldwide!

A legend has come to life!

FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS |
i

A strange madness is abroad in Gallantaria.,
Villagers are being put to the sword by five |
ghostiv figures. The Shadow Warriors are .
mysterious beings from an anctent legend .
who have somehow returned to life, But are
they all that they seem?
YOU are the battie-searred veteran hired to .
solve the mystery, Bur even YOU have
never faced a challenye like the Shadow
Warriors, for the whole of the Old World is ;
threatened by their terrible secret!

Part story, part game, this is.a hook in which
YOU become the hero! Two dice; a pencil
and an eraser-are all you need, YOU decide
which routes to take, which dangers torisk 9
and which foes to net

ANOLSONIALINYV!
MOPEYS 243 JO PUI39T equiv NOSMDVIAAAIS

y yer Oly ras
“<3 B.
=
=
mle
: i
=
3}
A PUFFIN BOOK 1 . 44
| : Viti’
4\p i Ba ge
UK, Oa | os if Fs iE |
a2 80.05 | | ¥! M,
(ieel GT } ee HGH HFG HANTS
CAN, 94.08 VTA TALE She r i a
PUFFIN BOOKS
LEGEND OF THE SHADOW WARRIORS

In the uftermath of the War of the Four Kingdoms, Gallantaria is
a please land celebrating a new ruler. For the inhabitants of the
remote village of Karnstein, however, it is a place of soul-rending
fearl Five ghostly figures have stepped out of an ancient legend
and into the light of day. The Shadow Warriors are tiding,
hunting down human beings and putting them to the sword. But
why?

YOU are a veteran of the wars, wandering the land in search of
adventure, when you are hired to solve the mystery of the Shadow
Warriors. What you discover will affect the life of everyone in the Old
World, not least your own.

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you need to embark on
this heart-stopping adventure, which is complete with its own
elaborate combat system and a score sheet to record your
progress.

Many dangers lie ahead of you, and your success is by no
means certain. Adyersaries from your darkest nightmares are
ranged against you, and it's up to YOU to decide which route to
follow, which dangers to risk and which foes to fight!
Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks

|. TEE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP
MOUNTAIN
2 TILE CITADEL OF CITAOS
3. THE FOREST OF DGOM
4 STARSHIP TRAVELLER
5 CITY OF THIEVES
6 DEATHTRAP DUNGEON
7 ISLAND OF THE LIZARID KING
¥ SCORPION SWAMI?
9 CAVERNS O1 THE SNOW WITCH
10 HOUSE OF HELL
IL TALISMAN OF DEATH
12 SPACE ASSASSIN
13 FREEWAY FIGHTER
14 TEMPLE OF TERROR
15 THE RINGS OF KETHER
16. SEAS OF BLOOD
17 APPOINTMENT WITH FE. A R
18 REBEL PLANET
19. DEMONS OF THE DEEP
20 SWORD OF THE SAMURAI
21 TRIAL OF CHAMPIONS
22 ROBOT COMMANDO

Steve Jackson‘s SORCERY!
1 THE SHAMLUTANTI HILLS
2 KHARE - CITYPORT OF TRAPS

23: MASKS OF MAYI1EM

24, CREATURE OF ELAYOC

25 BENEATH NIGHTMARE CASTLE

26 CRYPT OF THE SORCEKFR

27 STAR STRIDER

28 PHANTOMS OF FEAL

29. MIDNIGHT ROGUE

30 CHASMS OF MALICE

31. BATTLEBLADE WARRIOR

32. SLAVES OF THE ABYSS

33. SKY LORD

34 STEALER OF SOULS

35. DAGGERS OF DARKNESS

36. ARMIES OF IIEATH

37, PORTAL OF EVIL

38 VAULT OF THE VAMPIRE

39. FANGS OF FURY

40. DEAD OF NIGHT

41 MASTER OF CHAOS

42 ALACK VEIN PROPHECY

43 THE KEEP OF THE LICH-LORD

44 LEGEND OF THE SHADOW
WARRIORS

3. THE SEVEN SERPENTS
4 THE CROWN OF KINGS

FIGHTING FANTASY — The Introductory Role Tlaying Game
THE RIDDLING REAVER — Four thrilling adventures
THE TROLLTOOTH WARS - A Fighting Fantasy Novel

The Advanced Fighting Fantasy Sysiem

OUT OF THE PIT: Fighting Fantasy Monsters

TITAN: The Fighting Fantasy World

DUNGEONEER - An Introduction to the World of Role-Playing Games

BLACKSAND! — More Advanced Fighting Fantasy

Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone
present

LEGS) ID Fic
SHADOW
WARRIORS

Stephen Hand

Illustrated by Martin McKenna

PUFFIN BOOKS
PUFFIN BOOKS

Published by the Penguin Group
a7 Wrights Lane, London W8 5TZ, England
Viking Penguin Inc, 40 West 23rd Street, New York, New York 10010, USA
Penguin Books Australia Ltd, Ringwood, Victoris, Australis
Penguin Books Canada Ltd, 28017 John Street, Markham, Ontario, Canada L3R 1B4
Penguin Books (NZ) Ltd, 182-190 Wairau Road, Auckland 20, New Zealand

Penguin Booke Ltd, Registered Offices Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England

First published 2991
13579108642

Concepl copyright © Steve Jackson and Jan Livingstone 1991
Text copyright © Stephen Hand, 1991
Illustrations copyright © Martin McKenna, 1991
Map copynght © Leo Hartas, 1991
All rights reserved

The moral right of the author has been asserted

Filmset in 11/13 pt Monophoto Palatino
Printed in England by Clays Ltd, St Ives plc

Except m the United States of America, Hus book is sald subject
Io the condition that it shal] not, by way of trade or otherwise, be lent.
re-sold hired out, of otherwise circulated wilhout the publisher's
pnor consent in any form of binding or cover other than that in which
it is published and without a similar conditian induding this condition
being imposed on the subsequent purchayer

CONTENTS

HOW TO FIGHT THE CREATURES OF THE OLD
WORLD
7

ADVENTURE SHEET
18

BACKGROUND

al

LEGEND OF THE SHADOW WARRIORS
27
To Josef Hawel whose great kindness
showed me that there are at least
two sides to every big story.

HOW TO FIGHT THE CREATURES OF
THE OLD WORLD

Before embarking on your perilous adventure, you
must work out your own strengths and weaknesses;
use the Adventure Sheet on pages 18-19 to record all
the details of your adventure. It will be sensible to
make copies of the Adventure Sheet for further sorties
into this adventure. As well as a copy of the Adventure
Sheet, you will also need two dice, a pencil and an
eraser,

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one die. Add 6 to the number rolled and enter the
total in the skit box on the Adventure Sheet.

Roll two dice. Add 12 to the number rolled and enter
the total in the STAMINA box.

Roll one die, add 6 and enter the total in the Luck box.

For reasons that will be explained below all your scores
will change during the adventure. You must keep an
accurate record of these scores, and for this reason you
are advised to write small in the boxes or to keep an
eraser handy. But never rub out your Initial scores. As
in other Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks, although you may
be awarded additional sxitt, STAMINA and Luck
points, their totals may never exceed their Initial scores,

-

except on those very rare occasions when the text
specifically tells you so.

Your SKILL score reflects your expertise in combat,
your dexterity and agility. Your sTAMINA score reflects
how healthy and physically fit you are. Your LucK
score indicates how lucky you are. In all these cases, the
higher your score, the better!

Battles

During your adventure you will often encounter hostile
creatures which will attack you, and on other occasions
you yourself may choose to draw your sword against
an enemy you chance across. In some situations you
may be given a special option, allowing you to deal
with the encounter in an unusual manner; but in most
cases you will have to resolve battles as described
below

You will be told your opponent's skiLt and STAMINA
scores in the paragraph where you first meet it; enter
them in the first vacant Encounter Box on your Adven-
ture Sheet. You should also make a note of any special
abilities or instructions which are unique to that par-
ticular opponent, Then follow this sequence:

1. Roll both dice for your opponent. Add its sKILL
score to the total rolled, to find its Attack Strength.

2. Roll both dice for yourself, then add your current
SKILL score to find your Attack Strength

3. If your Attack Strength is higher than your op-

ponent’s, you have wounded it: proceed to step 4.
If your opponent's Attack Strength is higher than
yours, it has wounded you: proceed to step 5. If
both Attack Strength totals are the same, you have
avoided or parried each other's blows: start a new
Attack Round from step 1, above.

4. You have wounded your opponent: subtract 2 points
from its STAMINA score. You may use LUCK here to
do additional damage to it (see below). Now proceed
to step 6.

5. Your opponent has wounded you: subtract 2 points
from your STAMINA score, You may use Luck here
to minimize the amount of STAMINA lost (see
below).

6. Begin the next Attack Round, starting again at
step 1.

This sequence continues until the sTAMINA score of
either you or your opponent reaches zero, which means
death, If your opponent dies, you are free to continue
with your adventure. If you die, your quest ends and
you must start the adventure all over again by rolling
the dice to create a new character

Special Equipment

During the course of your adventure you may be
fortunate enough to get your hands on special weapons
and protective armour. If you wield a special weapon in
combat, any blows you land on your opponent will do
greater damage — your foe will lose more sTAMINA

9

than normal; if you enter battle wearing armour, you
will be more or less protected from any blows which
your opponent lands on you ~ you will lose fewer
points of STAMINA than normal. Instructions covering
all these cases are given in the paragraphs where the
special equipment is to be found. Any rules concerning
special weapons that you read there always take prece-
dence over the rules given in the Battles section, above.

Fighting More Than One Opponent

In some situations you may find yourself facing more
than one enemy. Sometimes you will treat them as a
single opponent; sometimes you will be able to fight
each in turn; and sometimes you will have to fight
them all at the sarne time! If they are treated as a single
opponent, the combat is resolved normaliy. When you
are instructed to fight your opponents one at a time,
the combat is again resolved normally — except that

Io

once you defeat a creature, the next steps forward to
fight you! When you find yourself under attack from
more than one opponent at the same time, each adver-
sary will make a separate attack on you in the course of
each Attack Round, but you can choose which one to
fight. Attack your chosen target as in a normal battle.
Against any additional opponents you throw for your
Attack Strength in the normal way; if your Attack
Strength is greater than your opponent's, however, you
will not inflict a wound in this instance; you can regard
it as if you have parried an incoming blow. If your
Altack Strength is lower than your enemy’s, however,
you will be wounded in the normal way. Of course,
you wil! have to settle the outcome against each addi-
tional adversary separately.

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either in battles
or when you come across other situations in which you
could be either Lucky or Unlucky (details of these are
given in the paragraphs themselves), you may use
LUCK to make the outcome more favourable to you.
But beware! Using tuck is a risky business and, if you
are Unlucky, the results could be disastrous.

The procedure, called Testing your Luck, works in the
following way: roll two dice. If the number rolled is
equal to or less than your current LUCK score, you have
been Lucky and the outcome will be in your favour. If
the number rolled is higher than your current Luck
score, you have been Unlucky and will be penalized.

i ¢
Each time you Test your Luck, you must subtract 1 point
from your current Luck score, Thus you will soon
realize that, the more you rely on your Luck, the more
risky will this procedure become.

Using Luck in Battles

In certain paragraphs you will be told to Test your Luck,
and you will then find out the consequences of being
Lucky or Unlucky. However, in battles, you always
have the option of using your Luck, either to inflict
more serious damage on an opponent you have just
wounded, or to minimize the effects of a wound you
have just received.

If you have just wounded an opponent, you may Test
your Luck as described above. If you are Lucky, you
have inflicted a severe wound; deduct 2 extra points
from your opponent’s STAMINA score. If you are Un-
lucky, however, your blow only scratches your oppo-
nent; and you deduct only z point from your opponent's
STAMINA (ie., instead of scoring the normal 2 points of
damage, you now score only 2).

Whenever you yourself are wounded in combat, you
may Test your Luck to try to minimize the wound. If
you are Lucky, your opponent’s blow only grazes you;
deduct only z point from your sTAMINA. If you are
Unlucky, your wound is a sertous one and you must
deduct 1 extra STAMINA point (i.e, deduct a total of 3
points from your own STAMINA).

Remember: you must subtract 1 point from your LUCK
score each time you Test your Luck.

I2

More About Your Attributes

Skill

Your SKILL score will not change much during the
course of your adventure. Occasionally, a paragraph
may give instructions to increase or decrease your
SKILL score, but it may not exceed its Initial value
unless you are specifically instructed to the contrary. If
you ever have to fight a battle with your bare hands
(that is to say, you do not have a weapon to fight
with), you must temporarily subtract 1 from your cur-
rent SKILL score for the duration of the combat.

At various times during your adventure, you will be
told to Test your Skill. The procedure for this is exactly
the same as that for Testing your Luck: roll two dice. If
the number rolled is equal to or less than your current
SKILL score, you have succeeded in your test and the
result will go in your favour, If the number rolled is
higher than your current SKILL score, you will have
failed the test and will have to suffer the consequences
However, unlike Testing your Luck, do not subtract 1
point from your SKILL each time you Test your Skill.

13

Stamina
Your STAMINA score will change a lot during your
adventure. It will drop as a result of wounds gained
through combat, or by falling foul of traps and pitfalls,
and it will also drop after you perform any particularly
arduous task. If your STAMINA score ever falls to zero,
you have been killed and should stop reading the book
immediately, Brave adventurers who wish to pursue
their quest must roll up a new character and start all

over again.

You can restore lost stamina by eating meals or
Provisions, You start the game with no Provisions, but
you will be given the opportunity to obtain food during
your adventure. You must keep track of how many
meals’ worth of Provisions you have by filling in the
details in the Provisions box of your Adventure Sheet.
Each time you eat a meal you may restore up to 4
points of sTAMINA, and you must deduct one meal from
your Provisions box. You may stop and eat Provisions
at any time except when you are engaged in a battle.

Remember, your sTAMINA score may never exceed its
Initial value, so there’s no point in eating meals if your
STAMINA is already at its maximum.

Luck
Additions to your Luck score may be awarded in the
course of the adventure when you have been par-
ticularly lucky or have created your own luck by some
action. Details are given in the relevant paragraphs of
the book. Remember that, as with skit and STAMINA,

14

your LUCK score may never exceed its Initia! value —
unless you are specifically told that it can.

Equipment and Gold

At the beginning of your adventure you have very
little equipment that is suitable for a journey of any
kind; but you will be given a chance to visit the market
at Royal Lendle before embarking on your dangerous
quest. During your travels you may also find other
useful items which you can take. For now, though, you
have only a sword, a backpack and a pouch holding a
few Gold Pieces, To find out how many Gold Pieces
you have, roll two dice and add 12 to the total rolled
Then note the following items on your Adventure Sheet:
your sword (in the Weapon box) and your money (in
the Gold Pieces box). If later on you should come
across any items which you want to take with you,
make a note of them in the Equipment box (they are
kept in your pack) unless the paragraph tells you other-
wise,

Weapons
Though you start the adventure witha sword of gleam-
ing steel, you may get the chance to acquire another
weapon. If you take another weapon, you must discard
your old one, as you can only ever carry one weapon
at a time, To discard a weapon, just erase it from the
Weapon box of your Adventure Sheet, and then enter
the name of the newly acquired weapon in the same
box, with a note as to any special instructions that BO
with it, Once a weapon is discarded, it is lost for ever

15

Remember: if you ever have to fight without a weapon,
subtract 2 point from your current sxKiLL score for the
duration of the entire battle.

Armour

You start the adventure wearing no armour, but you
may be lucky enough to obtain some later on. If you do
get your hands on some armour, note it in the Armour
box of your Adventure Sheet — the paragraph where you
find the armour will tell you the type of armour it is. Of
course you can wear only one type of armour at any
particular time; if you find more and wish to keep it,
you will have to discard the armour you are currently
wearing. Just erase the old armour from the Armour
box of your Adventure Sheet, and then enter the name of
the new armour, along with any instructions that go
with it. Once armour has been discarded, it is gone for
ever. You may also discard armour if you quite simply
no longer wish to wear it. In such cases, just erase the
armour from your Adventure Sheet. You may carry out
this action at any time, except during a battle.

16

The various types of armour all work in the same way:
they give you some form of protection in battles
but only for a certain length of time — even the finest
Dwarven plate can take only a certain amount of
hammering before it starts to buckle, Due to its bulk,
armour also hinders your movements, unfortunately

In the paragraph where you find the armour you will
also be told both the total number of hits that the
armour can take before it is ruined and exactly how the
armour will protect you. Whenever you lose an Attack
Round while you are wearing armour, the armour will
automatically protect you — whether you want it to or
not! As a result, you will lose fewer stTAMINA points
than normal, and you may even not have to lose any
STAMINA at all! However, because the armour will have
protected you, you must add 1 to the number of hits
that the armour has taken, As soon as the number of
hits taken by the armour reaches the total number of
hits that it can take, it becomes useless straight away
You may no longer receive the armour’s protection and

must erase it from the Armour box of your Adventure
Sheet.

The paragraph in which you find the armour will also
tell you to add at least 1 to your dice-rolls whenever
you have to Test your Skill, thus reducing your chance
of success in the test. This penalty is because of the
armour’s bulk, and it affects you for as long as the
armour is included on your Adventure Sheet. Wearing
armour has no other effect on your SKILL score,

17
VENTURE SHEET

MONSTER ENCOUNTER BOXES

ll

—_a

Skill. STAMINA | JLUCK
initial Initial Initial
Skill= Stamina= Luck=
WEAPON PROVISIONS
ARMOUR
EQUIPMENT
GOLD
PIECES
NOTES

ee
——

Stemon= Stamina= Shiv
Skilf= Siji= » Skill=
Stim Slawuista= Stamminr=
Skille Shiti= Skift=
Sait Shivninn= Stianrtie=
Skit= Shih Sciit—
Svat SMS SoM

BACKGROUND

Shadow Warriors Gallantaria was once the most civilized land on the
OREN ISTTEL, face of Titan. Its history began when Orjan the
Riding ever faster, Builder halted the great roaming of his tribe, to build
Uprooting tree and breaking stone, a village which he called Lendle. From there, his
Searching for their Master . people spread, building ever more villages, and
: Lendle itself evolved into a walled city. Orjan’s son,

Regulus, led the people into a new age of wealth,

and forged the eight largest towns into the nation of

Gallantaria, with Royal Lendle as its capital.

Gallantaria continued to expand and could well have

covered the entire Old World, were it not for the

fact that it bordered other nations whose peoples

also had thoughts of expansion . . .

Directly south lay the nation of Femphrey, and to
the east the country of Brice. Though initially
relations were cordial, the people of Brice grew
jealous of Gallantaria’s wealth and prepared an
invasion. Next, Gallantarian colonies in the
Northlands rebelled and sent an army down into
their parent country to win their independence, and
it did not take long before the nearby nations of
Femphrey and Lendleland got caught up in these
terrible events, Thus began the War of the Four
Kingdoms.

extracts from Life on Titan
by Ernst Kandermann

21
20
The treacherous Baron Tag led his own monarch
into an ambush, he himself plunging a poisoned
dagger into King Constain’s back. War-torn and
leaderless, Gallantaria fell into despair. Fortunately
help was at hand in the form of Tantalon, the court
magician, who seized the throne ‘in the name of the
people’. Using a mixture of cunning, wizardry and
brilliant strategy, Tantalon brought the war to an
end single-handed. Yet, though he exercised the
authority of kingship, he did not keep the crown for
himself; he was saving it for another.

excerpt from Court Essays and Observations:
two decades of royal decorum
by Hugo Montpeilier

Aged and weary, Tantalon killed two birds with one
stone: at one and the same time he found Constain’s
successor and righted twelve wrongs by declaring
the latter to be tasks which the former had to
complete to win the crown. Thus a new blood-line
began to rule Gallantaria, Orjan’s lineage having
ended with the betrayed Constain. Law and order
were restored and an unlikely hero became king.
Strangely enough, the coronation coincided with
Tantalon’s passing away; but the wizard’s death and
the start of a fresh royal dynasty signalled a new era
for the nation.

However, Gallantaria was no longer the centre of
the Old World. That position had passed to
Femphrey, the realm of King Chalanna, who ruled
with his magical ‘crown of kings’, Chalanna lent this

22

‘a

great artefact to the rulers of the other countries, on
condition that they join his now mighty Alliance.
Indeed, Chalanna’s wise and generous leadership has
proved to be the sole guiding light, leading us into
the next Age of Humanity.

extract from Chalanna the Reformer, Vol, HI:
The Fruitful Years

by Matra Sanscreer

Sword For Hire

You are a veteran adventurer, lending your sword-arm
to (almost) anybody who makes you the right offer —
though it must be said you have no great love for gold,
requiring only enough to get by. You seek adventure
and excitement for their own sake and look to correct
the world’s many injustices. Over the years you have
‘ought for many armies and have joined many expedi-
tions into unknown lands. During the War of the Four
Mingdoms you fought on the side of Gallantaria, your
homeland. Your courage, skill and leadership earned
you many decorations and, though you never felt
comfortable with it, the rank of captain. When the war
ended, you spurned the fame you had’ gained and took
to the road in search of fresh adventures.

ah
Five years on, you are now back in Royal Lendle; but
the people who once sang your praises have forgotten
you, It’s taken only four days for you to become bored
with the city so, hopeful of bumping into someone
interesting, you decide to take yourself to a tavern
named the First Step to slake your thirst. It is highly
likely that someone in here will be looking for a person
with your particular talents. Indeed, you are on the
point of draining your second tankard of Lendale when
you feel a frantic tapping on your shoulder and you
turn to face a worried-looking man.

Judging by his appearance, you would say that he is a
farmer living on the country’s borderland. His words
tumble out in hurried anxiety. ‘Please, Captain, you
must help us in Karnstein, Our homes are being ravaged
by an unstoppable foe and our people are being cut
down like dead wheat. Three of us — that’s me, Men-
dokan, and two of my fellow villagers — have come to
the city seeking help, but the authorities won't listen to
us. They think we’re making it all up. They don’t
believe that we're being attacked by the Shadow
Warriors.’

It cannot be! The Shadow Warriors are merely bogey-
men, used by mothers to make their naughty children
behave; every Gallantarian child knows the short
nursery-rhyme that tells of them.

Before you have time to respond, Mendokan continues.
‘No one will help us, Even mercenaries we approached
have laughed in our faces. Then, when we heard you
were here ... You're our last hope. Will you help us?’

24

While his words have hardly been a glowing tribute to
your skills, you can see that the man is terrified and in
dire need of help. You're very doubtful about this
Shadow Warrior business, though. It is much more
likely that the people of Karnstein are being terrorized
by a gang of brigands got up in frightening costumes
Still) you have heard of Karnstein; it’s a mere speck of
dust on the maps, there’s virtually nothing there. What
could raiders possibly want from such a place? Perhaps
they just enjoy picking on scared, helpless peasants?
Whatever the reason, it enrages you to hear of such
wanton viciousness. You make up your mind to go to
Karnstein on the spot: you'll defend the village and
teach these ‘Shadow Warriors’ a lesson they'll never
forget.

Tum tor
I-2

I

Though he is relieved that you have agreed to help his
village, Mendokan now begins to look embarrassed. He
says, ‘We are only a poor and simple people. All we can
pay you is two hundred Gold Pieces and, what is more,
the village elders have decreed that you are to be paid
after the job is done.’ Heigh-ho, such are the times! Still,
you won't go back on your word, so you agree to his
terms and Mendokan smiles once more in relief. Now
he must go and find his friends so that they can prepare
to leave for Karnstein; you yourself will have to buy
Provisions and other equipment necessary for the jour-
ney and your adventure. You shake hands with Men-
dokan and arrange to meet his party on the Main Trade
Route, south of the city, in two hours’ time. The farmer
then hurries out of the tavern —just as a gaudily dressed
fellow strolls in and elbows his way towards you.

This is Bartolph, an infamous gambler; he struts through
even the most dangerous parts of the city wearing
expensive silks, as a sign of his success at countless
gaming tables. ‘I haven't seen you in here for some
time,’ he says with a sly grin. ‘Care to try your luck?”

Although you shouldn’t be wasting any time here, a
win would enable you to buy more equipment and thus
prepare you for the road ahead. If you accept Bartolph’s
challenge, turn to 86. If you would rather leave, tum
to 30.

2
The leap is not going to be an easy one. Test your Skill)
If you succeed, turn to 24; but if you fail, turn to 131.

To say that an uneasy silence descends on the bar
would be an understatement, but you do your best to
ignore the group. If you want to buy a tankard of ale, it
will cost you a Gold Piece (cross 1 Gold Piece off your
Adventure Sheet) and as it goes down you can feel it
doing you good (restore 2 STAMINA points). You stand
by the bar, listening in on the motley group’s conversa-
tion. The veterans believe that the Orc is a monk from
Femphrey! Hither they have been drugged or else the
Ore is using a magical disguise. Just then, the Man-Orc
walks up to the bar, orders a pint of ale — and then
throws it in your face! Anger sends the blood rushing
to your cheeks and you tum to face the Orc, who
shouts, ‘Did you just spill my pint?’ Will you attack the
Ore (turn to 132), or try to prove to the others that he
is an Ore and not a Femphreyan monk (turn to 350)?

4-5

4

Though your evil foe has fallen, he has struck you with
a cruel-blade, a magical dagger that inflicts cuts which
continue to deepen even after the weapon itself has
been withdrawn. The wounds grow and worsen, result-
ing in a slow and painful death. Fortunately you know
the proper treatment for such ill: you must seal the
cruel-wounds with heat; only then will they heal
normally. if you have a lantern (and oil), you must light
it and press its hot glass against your injured flesh
(deduct one skin of oil from your Adventure Sheet).
However, this cure is so painful that it may kill you
(deduct 6 points from your sTAMINA). If you do not
have a lantern (oil alone is no good), you will surely
die. If you survive the desperate remedy, turn to go.

Successive bursts of sheet lightning enable you to see
that, all across the marsh, creatures resembling
pumpkin-headed scarecrows are stirring, They are the
Haggwort, formed of the earth and roused by the
growing corruption in the land. Groaning, the mindless
hulks rise and make their sluggish way towards Hust-
ings, their paws gripping a variety of murderous wea-
pons. They are great fighters, but they suffer one
weakness: they are animated by mystic hres which are
held under pressure within their heads; any cut to the
head, no matter how tiny, will free the energy, and the
sudden release will cause the Haggwort’s head to ex-
plode! Hustings must be warned of the imminent attack,
but a Haggwort stands on the road, in your way, Will
you:
6-7
Attack it? Turn to 36
Head out on to the moors in a bid to sneak round it?
Turn to 108
Put on a Chameleon Cloak — if you have one?
Turn to 260

6
The mystic bolt shoots past your head and crashes into
the woman, turning her into a warty, croaking frog! It
seems that one of the very sorcerers she had been
objecting to was watching over the proceedings and
decided to end them, To your dismay, the onlookers
fall about with laughter, while the frog hops away to
begin a new life. Will you now go and listen to the old
beggar (turn to 21g) or to the man in black (tum to

137)?

-
You open a small vial of Metal Rot and empty its
contents all over the square iron panel which houses
the lock to your cage (cross the vial off your Adventure
Sheet). The thick gurgling fluid does its work in seconds,
and the lack dissolves into thin air, Not having heard a
thing, the jailer is caught unawares when you sneak up
behind him and knock him unconscious. You step over
his mountainous body and slip out of the jail. Now you
will have to leave Royal Lendle before you are caught
again, Will you leave the city by the South Gate, which
opens straight out on to the Main Trade Route (tum to
272), or by the nearer East Gate (turn to 60)?

The Shadow Warrior you face carries no weapon; it is a
master of the martial arts, and its deadly, rotted hands
move with blurring speed. Each Attack Round, the
Warrior has two attacks, Treat this combat as if you are
fighting two opponents with identical ratings at the
same time,

First SHADOW WARRIOR skittg sTAMINAQ
If you defeat the Warrior, turn to 335.

You watch as the convoy of wagons disappears in the
distance, before you follow in its wake. Progress is
slow and you spend a restless night, knowing that if
you had gone with the circus you would be in Shattuck
by now. In the moming you wake (restore 3 STAMINA
points) and continue on your journey.

Io

Another day passes before you reach a large stone
bridge on the northern outskirts of Shattuck. The Circus
of Dreams stands near by, its evening show in full
swing. The clown in charge of the circus steps out from
behind a wagory she bows to you — as four more
performers step out from the shadows behind her.
They are all Mandrakes and they are coming for youl
To stand and fight would be sheer folly, and they will
probably catch you if you stay on the road. Neverthe-
less, will you nun along the road to Shattuck (tum to
g1) or take a most desperate gamble and dive off the
bridge into the deep river, many feet below (turn to
104)?

Io

Sweat pours down your face and you fall backwards,
tearing your mind free from this most hazardous device,
an Orb of Mind-snaring. While it may not be the safest
thing to carry around, perhaps it will have its uses. If
you want to take it with you, add it to your Adventure
Sheet. If you have not already done so, will you now
study the sarcophagus (tum to 193) or Hegmar's desk
(tum to 147), or do you ignore them both and leave
(turn to 216)?

rt

11

You make geod progress southwards, but you are still
many miles north of Gornt when you are brought to a
halt by the sight of a peculiar, grinning face that is
watching you from within the deep grass which borders
the roadside. Looking more closely, you see that the
face is adorned with leaves and is part of the grass
itselft It darts about, moving here and there as if blown
by the wind; and it speaks in a spry and mischievous
voice: °"Tis Jack-in-the-Green, the ancient king, here to
offer you guidance, The world is dying, the soil corrupt
and the trees astir with violence. Warriors five seek
their lord, the one whe must not be freed. Earth-mother
seeks : healing hand, but ‘tis proof of your worth she
needs.’ If you have a Green Leaf Brooch, turn to 398.
Otherwise, Jack-in-the-Green will offer you a chance to
prove your worth. If you will accept his task, turn to
382. If you do not, turn to 398.

12

12

There’s no time to rest. Night turns into day as you
leave Hustings far behind and get your first view of
the Witchtooth Line: a sprawling mass of unscalable
mountain peaks, monster-filled caves and treacherous
narrow passes, Adventurers who can say that they've
‘crossed the Line’ are the most respected of their kind.
Eventually, you come to a bridge and, later, to a fork in
the road. Will you go to the left (turn to 393) or to the
right (turn to 334)?

13-15

I

Write down how many Gold Pieces you wish to
gamble, then roll one die. On a roll of 2-6, turn to §4;
if you roll a z, turn to 175.

14

Because of the poor conditions, you spend much of
your time concentrating on not falling over. The Crom-
bane, however, have no such fears, Their howls rise and
fall on the wind, and their revolting feet drum the earth
behind you. lf you have a set of Calthrops, you may
throw them down in the Crombanes’ path. The spiked
metal balls will rip into their foul flesh and give you the
time you so desperately need. If you wish to do this,
cross the Calthrops off your Adventure Sheet and either
make for the copse (turn to 63), or run back north-
westwards, to the road (turn to 160). If you do not
have — or do not wish to use — any Calthrops, you
must fight (turn to 290)

15

The old man calmly lifts a finger and points at a wall. In
response, there is a loud click, and a secret panel slides
open. ‘That way lies freedom, but back south lies
knowledge, while north lies the greatest reward and the
greatest danger, It is ever my duty to set the tasks.’
Who is this man and why does he keep on about tasks?
Surely it can’t be... no! You look back at the old man,
but he has gone. Where will you go now: through the
secret door (tum to 278), or back out into the hall and
then through the south door (tum to 68), the north
door (turn to 374) or the west door (turn to 56)?
—

VC WLTZE5

7.07 2564

0 upon -the_ world ot Zan aL 4
he * {

"Wisthg Pertrapy

rs

——

aid » a)
Sheath: stihshe “wets eel % |

4A 2T.9 sy

PE+H ton! gouty, Crurtly dnd he rs} |
Wing L tebe. .
thy. tribes af Wtegirente thee” ©)

;
it

16

16

In your hands is a page from the Astrakkaans Numeris,
as laid down by Parcleasus, the numerologist. Though
bom blind, he has a mystic sight which has given him
the gift of prophecy and the ability to chart the complex,
unexplored realm of numbers. He has combined both
gifts in the creation of this rare book, which predicts
the return of Voivod and provides the numerological
knowledge required to defeat him. Filled with horror,
you read tales of Voivod’s first existence on Titan; but
you are relieved to see that the numerology is easy to
understand. Basically, the system instructs you on how
to turn words into numbers of mystical significance.
You can turn any word into its numerological equiva-
lent by converting each individual letter into a number,
using the key below, and then by adding all the numbers
thus found to create a mystical total.

123 4 5 6 7 8 g
A B C DE F GH I
J K LMN OP QR
S T UVwWX Y Z

For example, Royal Lendle is converted thus:

R O Y AL L EN DL E
9 6 9 1t 3 3 5 5 4 3 §

Add up all the numbers thus obtained, and you get 51.
So 51 is the mystical number of Royal Lendle. As you
will see later, this knowledge is vital to the completion
of your quest.
17

17
There’s no time to waste. You race forward and kick or
push or grab and hurl any of the circus people who
come within your reach to do whatever you can to
send their bodies falling on to the campfire. Roll one
die and add 2. The total rolled equals the number of
Mandrakes you manage to destroy out of the original
nine, Next, if you have any skins of oil, you may light
them and throw them at the remaining Mandrakes; for
each skin of oil you cross off your Adventure Sheef, you
may destroy two Mandrakes. Any Mandrakes you
destroy come from the bottom of the list, below, You
must fight all the remaining ones at the same time.
Though Mandrakes are not killed by normal combat,
any you beat will be stunned for a few precious
moments, allowing you to throw their bodies on to the
fire,

SKILL STAMINA

CLOWN
First MANDRAKE
Second MANDRAKE
Third MANDRAKE
Fourth MANDRAKE
Fifth MANDRAKE
Sixth MANDRAKE
Seventh MANDRAKE
Eighth MANDRAKE

al
a)

NN OO GO Bn wn SG
SY omWwW& @ AN

If you win, turn to 197,

18-19

18
Thanking Osmani, God of Mercenaries, for your escape,
you scramble up the ladder, push open the manhole
cover with your hard head (deduct z point from your
STAMINA) and haul yourself up into the open air, You
roll over and shove the lid back in place, Restore 1
LUCK point for making a successful escape.

Resting briefly, you look around and see that you are in
a short alley which leads into a busy square. And you
are not alone. An impoverished jester has been watching
your behaviour with a perplexed expression on her
face. Her red-and-green outfit is in tatters, yet she
manages a glib smile and walks towards you as you
climb to your feet. ‘Have you heard the one about the
pig in a frenzy .. .’ she begins. You place the palm of
your hand over her face and push her out of your way
on to the floor, You're in no mood for jokes! Turn
to 225.

19

‘Troubled times are ahead,’ continues the enigmatic
figure, “To help you, the Horned God sends a gesture
of goodwill: find the man of numbers, or his book.
Without either, you will fail.’ Then the face is gone. It
seems that Jack-in-the-Green is a messenger for power-
ful elernental forces, forces which you decide to join.
You will strive to be the Earth-mother’s champion,
against the evil of the Shadow Warriors.

Squinting through the blinding rain, you can just make
out the lights and rooftops of Hustings. To the right of
the town is a slender column of earth which has been
20

forced up out of the ground by magic. Atop this
hundred-foot-high pinnacle is a tower made of oozing,
living sludge. You hear a slushing sound coming from
somewhere just off the road and just as you look a flash
of lightning reveals a man rising up out of the bog — at
least it looks like a man. If you want to walk the few
yards over to the figure, tum to 3go. If you would
rather stay on the road, tum to $.

20
Two guards face you, but more are coming. You don’t
want to kill the men — after all, they are only doing
their job ~ so you will have to use all your skill in a bid
to disarm them. Without their swords, they will soon
surrender and let you go. You must fight both of them
at the same time, but if you win a round against the one
you choose to fight, you do not injure him (because of
this, the guards are not given STAMINA scores). But if
your score in any Attack Round is 3 or more points
higher than your opponent's, you have disarmed him
and he no longer takes any part in the battle. Of course,
the guards are trying to kill you and will cause damage
to your STAMINA in the usual way if they wound you
in any Attack Round.

SKILL
First CITY GUARD 7
Second CITY GUARD 6

If you disarm both guards in six rounds of combat or
less, you may leave the alleyway and flee into the
temple grounds you saw earlier (turn to 164); but if

21-23

you do not manage to disarm them within this time,
more guards appear and you are captured (tum to

199),

21

Though you turn on your heel with lightning speed,
you still catch the merest glimpse of the Gorgon’s
hideous face: the hag’s skin is lined with evil and is
itamed by a writhing mass of vipers. A cry escapes
your lips as you fall back and spin dizzily away. She
steps after you, eager for your fall, but you stumble on,
never looking back. You go on and on, until at last you
are out of the caves altogether.

A stagnant pond lies just outside; you peer into it and
are shocked by the sight of your reflection — your hair
has turned grey, and your skin is stretched taut over
your bones! And it is only now that you feel a slight
stiffening in your muscles. Deduct 4 points from your
STAMINA and, if you are still alive, turn to 80.

22
Further up the street you come across a tattoo shop. A
tasteless sign over the entrance reads: ‘Roggmondo’s —
No Design Too Difficult, No Bit Of Skin Too Small’.
Will you enter Roggmondo’s (turn to 33) or continue
up the street, which seems to open out into some sort
of crowded area (turn to 118)?

23
Leaving the lady, you carry on searching through the
dark streets of the town, starting with a hovel on your

— Gee
24-26

Tight. You walk in through the open doorway and wait
for your eyes to adjust to the darkness. Test your Luck.
If you are Lucky, turn to 226. If you are Unlucky, tum

to 53.

24

Against all the odds, you have made it to the far path,
Seeing your miraculous leap, the Warriors howl in
frustration. They themselves cannot make the jump,
since the far path offers too narrow a landing area for
their horses. You fear that the riders will now split up
and wait for you at both ends of the pass, but no. They
screech and all race southwards. You sense that time is
against them; perhaps they fear the oncoming dawn.
Whatever the reason, you breathe a long, long sigh of
relief. Tum to roz.

25

The town of Hustings has been devastated by the
Hagewort assault, and though you feel that you have
done your best to help, your best may not have been
good enough. Following the downcast Hustings
refugees, you make your way along the south-bound
road. If you have a Green Leaf Brooch, or if you have
an iron band and the word ‘Cerunnos’ means something
to you, turn to 397. Otherwise, turn to 12.

26
After unleashing a stream of abuse which has no effect,
you finally shout, “Your father is the son of a lute-
player and your mother has a face like a bucket of
frogspawn.’ At this, the jailer leaps to his feet and,

27

despite his bulk, rushes swiftly towards you. Foam
Gribbles from his mouth as he unlocks the cage and
lumbers in, fists at the ready. He won’t accept any
apologies,

JAILER SKILL 8

If you win, you will have to leave the city before the
alarm is raised. Will you leave by the South Gate,
which opens out on to the Main Trade Route (tum to
272), or by the nearer East Gate (turn to 60)?

STAMINA 7

27

The town square is a cobbled area with, in its centre, an
old cross. It is a hive of activity as wool-spinners,
farmers, masons, artisans, merchants, drunkards, travel-
lers, simple peasants and a whole variety of other folk
go about, minding one another's business. After draw-
ing a few blanks, you meet a local priestess who knows
who you are speaking of. ‘Ah,’ she murmurs wisely,
you mean Parcleasus, the numerologist who once lived
here. Sadly, you are wasting your time. He went to the
Forbidden Caves, home of the dreaded Gorgon, three
years ago and, alas, never returned. He must have been
turned to stone.’ Though this news is all bad, you thank
the priestess and walk away. But you have gone only a
couple of steps when a begear tugs at your sleeve and
asks you for a Gold Piece, if you are willing to pay the
beggar, cross off the Gold Piece from your Adventure
Sheet and tum to rox. If you can’t or won't pay the
beggar, turn to 159.
28-29

28

Realizing that you are no match for the might of all five
Warriors combined, you run back to the north. Your
lungs burn as you try to put some distance between
yourself and the shrieking phantoms. Fortunately, you
come at last to a narrowing of the path which forces
the Warriors to ride in single file. But one of them has
sped ahead of the others in a bid to delay you. You
must fight and destroy it before the rest catch up. Roll
one die to see which of the five you must face. If you
roll a 6, ignore the result and roll again. When you are
told to continue your adventure, after defeating the
Warrior, turn to 72 (note this on your Adventure Sheet).
Now, if you roll:

Turn to 8
Turn to 394
Turn to 259
Turn to 183
Turn to 245
Roll again

amp WN BR

29
You feel lightheaded and are just on the verge of
agreeing to help with the dig — when you come to
your senses, get a grip on yourself and politely refuse.
However, rather than express any regrets or concern at
your dizzy spell, Guignol raises his pick-axe and rushes,
screaming, towards you. There is no reasoning with

this man possessed.
GUIGNOL SKILL 7 STAMINA 12

If you win, roll four dice and add the numbers together

40

If the total is equal to or less than your current STAMINA
score, turn to 62. If the total is higher than your current
STAMINA score, turn to 385.

40

Leaving the tavern behind, you walk towards the sprawl-
ing market area in the centre of the city. Ironically, the
market stands next to Royal Lendle’s poorest district, a
warren of dilapidated buildings housing beggars and
thieves. All in all, it is a sad and dangerous place

The sort of things you want would normally cost you a
small fortune; luckily, you have a good many merchant
friends, who will sell you their wares for next to
nothing. The eastern side of the market is where you
will find all the hardware you may need: weapons,
basic equipment and so on. On the western side, more
unusual items are to be found. Which side will you visit
first, the eastern (turn to 82) or the western (turn to

66)?
:

re

31

A number of incredibly strong hands grab you from
behind and pull you down on to the ground. Lying flat
on your back, you look up to see Ennian, the Burgomeis-
ter of Gort, standing over you. He smiles and says,
‘Don’t worry, you won't feel a thing. You'll soon be
one of us.’ Then he bends down and puts out his hand.
It turns into a slimy, organic suction pad; he clamps it
over your face and sends you into a sleep from which
you never awaken.

32

Pushing yourself to the limit, you almost miss the low
wire that is stretched across the passageway. You will
have to jump, to avoid tripping over it, Test your Skill.
If you succeed, turn to 278. If you fail, turn to 297.

33-34

Casting a swift glance over your shoulder, you turn the
omately carved door-knob of the tattoo parlour and
enter, A tiny bell clinks overhead, shaking a drab little
man out of his daydream, It is Roggmondo. He looks at
you with a bored expression and asks, ‘Tattoo, friend?’
Do you reply ‘Yes’ (turn to 143), or ‘No’ (turn to 270)?

34
Hearing the gentle footsteps and the swishing of her
sown, you try to avert your gaze — but too late! You
ook into the face of the Gorgon and must pay the
ultimate price, Now there are seven statues in the cave
again!
35-38

35
Running this way and that, you try to evade the

hunting Orcs, but there are too many of them, and they
soon have you trapped in a narrow gully. Even by Orc
standards, this is a particularly mangy and ferocious
bunch. Some train their bows and spears on you as
their leader steps forward and grunts, ‘We're the Orcs
of the Black Scorpion, the toughest tribe in all the
Witchteef. Surrender or die!’ The tribal shaman, a gross
hag, whispers words of counsel in her leader's ear;
judging by her expression, her advice is evil in intent. If
you agree to surrender, turn to 288. If you would
rather fight, turn to 377.

36
Getting in a strike at the Haggwort’s head will not be
the easiest of things to do,

HAGGWORT SKILL 11 STAMINA 2

If you win, you may go either to the town (turn to
367), to the tower on the pinnacle (turn to 142), or on
to the treacherous moorlands (turn to 69).

Caught in the open, you cannot hope to outrun the
Warriors’ horses or prevent yourself being cut down
by the Warriors’ vicious attack, Your adventure is over.

38
You opt for the oldest trick in the book. Groaning
aloud, you chatch your side and fall to your knees in an
39

act of epic agony. The jailer glances over his shoulder
to see what all the fuss is about. Test your Luck. If you
are Lucky, turn to 74; if you are Unlucky, turn to 123.

39

After a day of hard but swift travel, the circus stops on
the north side of a huge stone bridge, on the outskirts
of Shattuck. The menacing range of mountains known
as the Witchtooth Line is clearly in sight, running
before you like the teeth of a loathsome Earth-dragon.
You stretch your stiff legs as the troupe unload the
wagons and start to put up the tents and stalls; they
intend to perform this very evening. When all is
finished, three of the performers ride on into Shattuck
to drum up custom. The remaining nine gather in a
circle round a campfire. There, they eat and discuss the
coming performance. For some reason, you are excluded
from both the meal and the discussion. You walk about
the encampment in a nervous and restless mood. You
have a number of vague suspicions and feel that you
must do something about these circus folk before the
people from Shattuck arrive. If the name ‘Korin’ means
anything to you, turn to 51. If it does not, turn to 255.

40-41

4o

The Man-Orc fought with great ferocity, but you have
defeated him. Such creatures usually dwell in isolated
areas so, for him to be here in the city, your assailant
must have been driven either by the promise of great
rewards or by fear of a terrible punishment. Searching
the swiftly decaying carcass, you find a small Black
Key, which you may take if you want to (don’t forget
co add it to your Adventure Sheet if you do take it).

Soon you are walking through the South Gate, out of
Royal Lendle and away from the scene of the assassina-
cion attempt. Turn to 145

AI

‘Vell done, you have chosen correctly. An ancient
cattle was once fought here, hence the name, and the

-nousands of bodies of the fallen still lie beneath the
earth. What better place for Voivod to raise an army of

42-44

the dead? You race to the Battle Plains and see him —
the Voivod himself — an incredible force of timeless
decay, ringed by his five lieutenants, the Shadow War-
tiors, who dance in darkest ecstasy. Beside the Voivod
is an Iron Bell of Summoning. If Voivod strikes this
magic artefact, the dead will rise to do his bidding. He
must be stopped, but how? Just looking at Voivod is a
shattering experience. If you arrived here early, turn to
189. Otherwise, turn to 364.

42
Seeing how well you handle yourself in a fight, the
chief of the Big Boulder Orcs sends his mean-looking
champion over to clobber you

ORC CHAMPION SKILL 8

If you win, you realize that if the Orcs of the Big
Boulder are victorious they will kill you; and if the Orcs
of the Black Scorpion triumph, Uggamonggo will
expect you to stay with his tribe for years. So you flee.
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, tum to 350. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 119.

STAMINA 7

43
‘Tut tut tut! Not your day, is it? Bartolph smirks

condescendingly as he reaches out for your stake. Will
you let him take the gold (tum to 15x) or grab his
wrist and call him a cheat (turn to 140)?

44
Your search for the hermit has used up a good deal of

precious time. Unless you can find some way to make it

45-47

up, you may very well reach Karnstein too late to save
it, Eventually you rejoin the Weirtown road. If you
wish to follow it back west, turn to 160. If you would
rather cut across country and head directly southwards
(remembering that roads usually offer greater safety for
the traveller), turn to 247.

If you have read either Hegmar’s Warning or the Circus
Journal, turn to 17. If you have read neither, turn to

315;

46
It does not take long for the eager foot-soldier to reach
you. Much as you dislike doing it, you will have to kill
him before reinforcements arrive.

CITY GUARD SKILL 8 STAMINA 8

If you defeat the guard in five or fewer rounds, you
escape and may either rush out of the alley and up the
street (turn to 360), or down into the sewers (turn to
375). If the guard is still alive after five rounds, you are
captured by reinforcements and taken to the jail (turn

to 199).

47

It is with a growing sense of urgency that you cross the
fields of heather and the windswept landscape which
lies between Narbury and Shattuck. After a while you
come to a rough-and-ready shelter: a ramshackle
wooden door built across a rocky alcove. If you wish to
investigate this shelter, tum to 178. If you would

48-49

rather carry on towards the Main Trade Route, tum
to 399.

48

Your path takes you higher and higher into the moun-
tains, where it’s not only the Shadow Warriors you'll
have to be wary of but all the other unwholesome
denizens of the region. But for now, you have only the
plaintive crying of the mountain winds to keep you
company. After a while, your path descends to ground
level, petering out near a large cavemouth which reeks
of grim foreboding. Dare you enter the Forbidden
Caves? If so, turn to 395. If you would rather be on
your way to Karmstein, turn to 80.

49

Looking up, you see that the drapes have been lifted, to
reveal a vampire-like creature rising from her throne.
Her ghastly countenance is haggard with age. At her
side is a living ‘fireplace’ which looks like the head of a
Haggwort, only larger and more malevolent. {t watches
both you and the creature as she walks towards you
and says, ‘Iam Urtha. Many years ago, when I was but
a vampire, the peasants of this region destroyed me
with the same wooden stake that now lies on that table.
Though destroyed as an Undead, I was, like the ancient
Haggwort, expelled from the grave. Now I am beyond
undeath. I am a Wamphyr!

‘Times are changing, the old regimes are being swept
away. We are entering a twilight existence of which 1
shall be queen! And with this ...’ she lifts her wrist to

5°-$2

display an iron band ‘... | can command the mindless
Haggwort. Guided by my experience of centuries, they
will make an unstoppable army!

It is time to act. If you have a vial of Metal Rot, you
may throw it at her iron band (turn to 83). If you do
not, will you attack her (turn to 305) or ask her to
prove her power (turn to 251)?

5°

Too late! Smegg is the. veteran of a thousand betrayals;
his spider-jaw blade cuts deep into your shoulder
(deduct 2 points from your stamina}. You must fight
the wretch.

SMEGG SKILL 8 STAMINA 3

If you win, tum to 71.

I

The clues all add up: Korin said that ‘they’, who had
been the cause of the troubles in Gomt, had left the
very day you arrived, having been in Gornt for the
previous seven days. According to the hand-out you
found, the cireus had been there for the same period
and length of time, Following your hunch, you sneak
close to the campfire and then pull the mirror out of
your pack. Though half-prepared, you still have to stifle
a cry of surprise when you see that each and every one
of the cireus performers is a disgusting Mandrake! You
must protect the people of Shattuck from this spreading
contagion of evil, If you have read Hegmar's Warning,
turn to 17. If you haven't, tum to 255.

52-55

52

You take a deep breath and then start running towards
the gate. Test your Skill, If you succeed, you make the
jump and head towards the East Gate (tum to 301). If
you fail, deduct 1 point from your sTAMINA for bounc-
ing off the hard gate; it is too high for you. You will
now have to face any guards who have come after you
along the narrow passage (turn to 20),

53
Before you know it, you are enveloped in a cloying

mist which sends you into a deep sleep; turn to 186.

54

Your smile turns into a look of mute disbelief as the die
suddenly flips over: your roll has become a 1. ‘Too
bad,’ says Bartolph, reaching for your gold. The die he
gave you is obviously loaded, and he is a trickster! If
you want to grab his wrist and accuse him of cheating,
turn to 115, However, if you would rather avoid any
trouble and let him have the money, deduct the Gold
Pieces you have fost from your Adventure Sheet and
leave the tavern; turn to 30.

As soon as he sees you, the guard raises the alarm. You
nad better get this Aght over and done with quickly.

MANDRAKE SKILL 8 STAMINA 7

if you win in four rounds or fewer, you escape; turn to
300. If, however, the Mandrake is still alive after the
end of the fourth round, turn to 31,

61

cart standing unattended, A few citizens are wealthy
and cultured enough not to throw their litter out of the
window; instead, they save it for the Lendle rubbish
collectors, who take it to a large quarry just beyond the
city wall. Gate Wardens always stand watch over the
four city gates as a matter of course, but now they
could also be on the lookout for you. Therefore, you
teckon it may be a good idea to sneak aboard the
tubbish cart and hide among all the garbage, That way,
you might just be able to slip through the gate unseen,
If you decide to climb‘aboard the cart, turn to 126; but
if you would rather approach the East Gate in a more
noble manner, on foot, turn to 301.

61
Reluctantly you put some of the junk into your mouth
— and immediately spit it out. It’s alive! In fact, it’s a

62

Slod-Kedbolm, whose skin is toxic. The sloppy black
thing emits a high-pitched whine then slithers away. Its
taste still has you heaving (deduct 2 points from your
5TAMINA). ‘Ts our food not to your liking, then?’ a voice
enquires. Turn to 49.

62
Ashamed by what has happened, you wipe Guignol’s
blood off your hands. Why did he attack you? After all,
he didn’t seem to be evil! You feel sure that your
unnatural dizziness was a part of what's going on here.
Maybe you can find some clue in the campsite. Will
you:

Search the site Turn to 271
Try to destroy the skeleton? Turn to 294
Leave the camp at once and continue

your journey? Turn to 282

Pas
he :
ci:

63-04

63

The weirdness shows no sign of abating as you enter
the copse; nor do the twisted trees offer you any
protection from the rain. Suddenly, a fork of lightning
cuts down through the darkness and blasts a tree right
in front of you, You take another path. . . but find your
way blocked by another fork of lightning, and another
and another! You run, but no matter which way you
turn, you come close to being incinerated. It is only
after several minutes of this deadly cat-and-mouse game
that you realize you are being herded into the heart of
the copse; there, you are confronted by a Mahogadon,
a long-dormant tree monster that has been stirred into
wakefulness by the changes in the earth. One of its
boughs swoops down and lifts you up, its leafless
branches wrapping round your waist. You cry out as
the woody tentacle begins to squeeze the life out of
you. If you have a vial of Sleeping Draught, turn to
200. If you do not, you will have to fight; turn to 357.

64

You leap aside just in time as the door swings wide
open and slams into the wall with a loud bang. Dusting
yourself down, you step inside the dark shelter, The
place smells of Ore and is bare, save for some black
robes and a torn map of Royal Lendle. Hidden under
one of the robes is a metal casket. You try to open it,
but it is locked. Do you have a Black Key or a vial of
Metal Rot? If so, you may use either to open the casket
(turn to 354 — and cross off Metal Rot from your
Adventure Sheet if you use that); otherwise, or if you
would rather leave the casket alone, turn to 248

65-66

65

Preparing a cauldron of cockroach and rat-droppings
stew is-a revolting, tedious and unappreciated chore —
and Bonesquagg Grogmaker, the Ore chef, is only too
quick to belabour you, should you make even the
slightest mistake in preparation. Even worse punishment
comes when you are forced to eat a bowl! The stuff
makes you feel sick in the stomach, but it is still a crude
form of nourishment (restore 2 points of STAMINA).
Just as you are finishing your stew, the tribe’s shaman
has four Ores seize you and manacle you to a blood.
stained stretch rack! Then the sly, sniggering shaman
defers respectfully to Uggamonggo, who says, ‘My

yer on a secret mishun ta try an‘ find
out our war planz. Now yoo'd better tell uzx what yer
up to, or yoo'll gain a few inches.’ Will you talk (turn to

198) or keep quiet (turn to 269)?

66

It does not take you long to find most of the things
which may be of use to you during your adventure.
Look at the list opposite and, if you buy any of the
items described there, add it to your Adventure Sheet,
deducting the appropriate number of Gold Picces.
Except for Provisions and the Amulet of Luck (which
may be used at any time except during a battle} and the
Ring of Agility (which may be used whenever you Test
Your Skill}, you may use items only when instructed to
do so by the text. Finally, unless the list tells you
otherwise, you may buy only one of each item.

Amulet of Luck

Chameleon Cloak

Fire-crackers

Provisions

Ring of Agility

Sleeping Draught

66

You may use this talisman once only, after
which it is useless. Using it restores your
LUCK score to its Jnifial level,

Cost: 4 Gold Pieces

Woven by Elven caftenen. this fine cape
lakes on the hue of any natural backwrund, It
® not so effective against man-made
such at brick walls, and 4 works

best in the hours of darkness
Cost: 3 Gold Pieces

Thrown at a hard surface. these tiny magical
devices explode with « loud tise and a
blinding flash of light. Though harness, they
can frighten or shock opponents. You may
buy any eumber of them

Cost: 2 Gold Pieces each

Although seemingly useless, in the past
mirrors have proved useful time and again in
the course of your many adventures.

Cost: 1 Gold Piece

You may buy any number of meals.
Cost: 1 Gold Piece per meal

Whenever you are told to Test your SG, you
may draw on the power of this magic ring. If
you do so, deduct 2 from the die-roll You
must decide whether of not to use the ring
before you make the roll: if you choose to une
iH, one use of the ring is spent, whether you
succeed in the test or not. The ring may be
used three times only, alter which it (4 useless,

Cost: 4 Gold Pieces

One vial of this potent brew will knock even a
Manticore out for days. You may buy any
number of vials,

Cost: 3 Gold Pieces each
67-69

If you have not yet visited the eastern side of the
market, turn to 188; if you have, turn to 321.

67
One by one, the balls fall to the ground. Then you get
a stinging kick on your backside and fall flat on your
face. The circus folk roar with laughter as you pull off
the ridiculous horse’s head. The clown stands over you
with a dry look and shakes her head. ‘You're clearly no
performer. For 3 Gold Pieces, you can buy your way.’ If
you pay the clown, cross the gold off your Adventure
Sheet and turn to 77. If you can’t or won’t pay, turn
to g.

68
You enter a room packed with books and wax-sealed
tubes containing ancient scrolls. The two Dark Elves
who passed you in the hallway earlier sit at a large
table reading magnificent tomes. But as soon as you
enter, they look up and shout, ‘Our temple has been
profaned! Death to the outsider!’ They draw long dag-
gers from beneath their robes and lunge at you. You
must fight them both at the same time

SKILL STAMINA
First DARK ELF 7 5
Second DARK ELF a 6

If you win, you may search the library {turn to 192), or
go back into the hall and enter the north door {turn to
374), the east door (turn to 8g), or the west door (tum
to 56).

Shunning the safety of the road, you head deeper and
deeper into the marsh. The Haggwort are all over the

7oO—71
moors but they are too slow to bother you. However,
the Haggwort are not the only source of danger on
Hustings Moor. Almost too late, you see that you are
about to tread on a rune-carved obsidian disc. It is
some sort of mystic man-trap. Test your Luck, If you are
Lucky, turn to 182. If you are Unlucky, turn to 234.

JO

In the darkness of the sewers you cannot make out the
Slygore’s form at all clearly; all you know is that the
creature is dark and malevolent. When you strike the
Slygore, its ‘skin’ hisses and steams. It is acidic to the
touch and it has dissolved your weapon (cross it off
your Adventure Sheet). Worse still, a black maggoty
slime has twitched its way up on to your hand, burning
it. You howl and must deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA. Then the Slygore gives vent to another
unearthly moan and lifts its bulk, as if to come down on
you and crush you. Will you flee (turn to 456) or
rummage swiftly through your pack for something
which may defeat it (tur to 230)?

I
Stepping over Smege’s repulsive little body, you retum
to the brightly lit chamber and the archway. Because
the walls are emitting a faint glow, you decide to put
out your lantern. Then you cross the room, pass through
the arch and descend the long, wide staircase. The steps
end at a corridor, which you follow until you come to a
crossroads. Will you go north, back the way you came
(turn to 106), south (tum to 114), east (turn to 122) or
west (turn to 144)? |
72-74

72

Made wary by your victory, the other Warriors rein
their horses to a halt. As one, the four hiss with fear
and hatred. But you don’t stay to watch this display of
evil: you run round a bend, putting yourself out of their
sight. Then you hear the pounding of hoofs as the
Warriors take up the pursuit once more. You won't be
so lucky a second time: you need to find a way to shake
them off, Will you attempt to hide in one of the many
Tuts in the rocky path (tum to 346), hurriedly put on
a Chameleon Cloak, if you have one, and hug the
shadowy side of the looming rock-face (him to 324),
or attempt a running jump across the deep ravine to
the path on the other side of the pass (turn to 2)?

“
All that stands between you and the Voivod are the
Shadow Warriors, You must fight each of the
Warriors (except any you have already banished by
special means) one after the other. if you possess the
Ring of Rabbam, remember to ignore the Warriors’
special abilities, The paragraph for each Warrior is: 8,
394, 259, 183 and 245. If you defeat all the Warriors,
you may then face Voivod. If you do so carrying the
Spear of Doom, turn to 171. If you do so without the
Spear, turn to 249.

Concerned, the jailer walks over to your cage, unlocks
it and rushes in to help you. You spring forward, snatch
the keys from his pudgy hand and leap out of the cage.

75-76

You slam the door shut and lock it before the jailer has
time to do a single thing. Then you throw away the
key and leave the jail. The imprisoned man’s cries echo
behind you as you make your way out of the city, Will
you leave by the South Gate, which opens out on to
the Main Trade Route (turn to 272), or by the nearer
East Gate (turn to 60)?

75
Putting the eerie ghost-town far behind you, you head
roughly south-west until you come to a sheltered glade.
There you lie down and catch a few hours’ sleep
(restore 2 STAMINA points).

When you wake up, it is to the dawn of a sunny day.
Will you cut westwards and join the road to Shattuck
(turn to 334), or take the southbound road, which leads
straight to the perilous Witchtooth Line (turn to 386)?

76
Just when you think the hermit is about to go berserk,
he falls to his knees, sobbing. Outside, the pleas grow
more persistent, but Hammicus just presses his hands
over his ears and weeps, ‘Leave me in peace. You
cannot be my son. My son is dead.’ At this, the voice
screams and fades into oblivion. The ordeal is over.

Rising, the hermit smiles through his tears and says, ‘I
owe you my life. In return I offer you knowledge. The
Shadow Warriors are vessels of their master’s will.
They can be destroyed only when he is destroyed, But
they can be banished. If you best a Warrior in combat,
tear the facemask off its dissolving form. Separated

77-78

from its talisman, the Warrior will be doomed to limbo
for a hundred years.’

If, in future, you defeat a Shadow Warrior, turn to 223
and not to 345 as instructed (make a note of this on
your Adventure Sheet). Restore 1 Luck point for obtain-
ing this priceless information. Resting for the night,
you leave the cottage next day at dawn and make your
way back south. Turn to 44.

The clown curtsies and declaims, ‘Welcome to the
Dream Circus; it brings fantasies to some and nightmares
to others. You may ride with us to Shattuck.’ You
assume you are to ride inside the clown’s wagon, but,
when you go to open the door, her hand reaches out and
grips your own. ‘Don’t!’ she snaps. You tum angrily but
are disarmed by her smile. ‘] thought you would prefer
to ride up front with me and my mute driver, Petulengro.
Besides, my living-quarters are in such a mess.’

Keeping a tight rein on your suspicions, you follow the
clown to the front of the wagon and take your seat as
the wheels start to roll. The convoy makes excellent
time, While you ride, will you ask the clown about the
madness at Gornt (turn to 116), about the Circus of
Dreams (turn to 165), about events at Karnstein (turn
to 130), or would you rather sit the ride out in silence
(turn to 39)?

78
With the guards in hot pursuit, you rush up the lane
but pause when you notice a manhole in the middle of

79

the roadway, Suddenly it occurs to you: possibly you
could lose the guards by sneaking down into the sewers
You are considering what to do when a fist-sized metal
ball bounces in front of you then comes to a halt on the
cobbles. It came from somewhere to your right. You
look in that direction and see a mysterious figure, clad
head to foot in black robes, scurrying away up a
narrow alley between two buildings. Will you pick up
the metal sphere (turn to 211), leave it and go down
into the sewers (turn to 375), or ignore both options
and keep on running up the street (turn to 22)?

79
The book ts a collection of ‘Myths and Legends of the
Old World’. On the off-chance, you look up Karnstein
and discover two things of interest. First, it is said that

79

the area was once called Assur-Na-Menes, the site of a
massive battle in which ten thousand men died, The
task of burial was so great that the victors merely
turned the soil of the battle plain over, covering the
bodies where they lay. It is said that the bodies lie there
still, beneath a layer of dry earth on which nothing
grows, Another legend speaks of the Waster, a cruel
tyrant whose very tread could despoill the earth, After
seven days of this, the suffering soil arose arid trapped
the Waster, imprisoning him ata place now called
the Zarrikiz Shrine.

You close the book, just as a secret panel slides open in
the far wall. Do you have a Chameleon Cloak? If so,
turn to 427; if not, turn to x50.

80

80
Putting the caves behind you, you follow the edge of
<ne Witchtooth Line eastwards until you come to the
‘fain Trade Route once more, You cross a bridge and
take a mountain trail, which should bring you to Karn-
sein. You walk for quite some time and ... wait a
minute! Where are you? Somehow you have left the
road and now, in your daydreaming, you have come to
2 rocky clearing, in which stands a most spectacular
sight. A man is standing here, sweating in the bright
sun. He has been trying to dig a skeleton out of the
ock-face — but what a skeleton! It is huge and belongs
=o a creature, the like of which you have never seen
cefore, Seeing you, the man calls out, ‘Ho, there! I am
Suignol, an archaeologist from Chalannabrad, and | am
on an excavation of vital academic import. I plan to
czke this unique specimen back to Femphrey. Unfortun-
ztely, I came on this venture alone, and now | find
myself in need of aid. If you help me free the specimen,
‘it pay you a hundred Gold Pieces.’ While this sum is
cempting beyond belief, you know that it will take
sours to free the skeleton, If you accept the offer, turn
20 385. If, on the other hand, you would rather be on
your way, turn to 210.
81-82

81
Do you have a vial of Sleeping Draught? IF you have,
turn to 244; if you haven't, turn to 65.

82

It does not take you long to find most of the articles
which you hope will be of use to you during your
adventure. Read through the list below and, if you buy
any of the items described there add it to your Audven-
ture Sheet, remembering to deduct the stated number of
Gold Pieces. Except for the battle-axe and the armour,
you may use items only when you are instructed to do
so by the text. Unless it is stated otherwise, you may
buy only one of any article.

Battle-axe Each time you hit your opponent in combat,
you cause it to lose 4 STAMINA points (6 points
if you Tesf your Luck and are Lucky; 2 if
Unlucky), However, because of the axe’s weight,
you have to suffer a penalty: deduct 7 from your
Attack Strength rolls whenever you use it. If
you buy the battle-axe, enter it in the Weapon
box of your Adventure Sheet

Cost: 3 Gold Pieces

Calthreps These spiked metal balls are thrown to the
ground in order to deter pursuit. You may buy

any number of sets .
Cost 1 Gold Piece per set

Chainmail armour Each hme you are hit in combat, you lose only 1
STAMINA point (o points if you Test your Luck
and are Lucky; 2 if Uniucky). However, due to
the armour's bulk, you must add 1 every time
you are called upon to Test your Ski! The
armour protects you only from damage gained
in battles and is useless after it has taken 10 hits.

Cosi: 3 Gold Pieces

83-84

Useful in dark places

Cost: 1 Gold Piece for a lantern plus one skin of
oil

Each use of the lantern consumes one skin of oil
You may buy any number of additional skins
(buk not lanterns).

Lantern and ail

Cost: 1 Gold Piece per skin

“Manacles These chains can bind most humanoid creatures.
Cost: 2 Gald Pieces

Metal Rot This alchemical solution dissolves most known
metals but leaves Hesh unharmed You may buy
any number of vials.

Cost: 4 Gold Pieces per vial

About twenty metres of thin, lightweight rope,
with a small metal hook affixed to one end
Cost: 4 Gold Pieces

Rope and grapple

If you have not already visited the western side of the
market, turn to 188; if you have, turn to 321.

83
Shrugging off the strong grip of your guards, you grab
a vial of Metal Rot and hurl it at the iron band. If your
aim is good, the glass vial will break and spill its
contents ail over the band. Cross the vial off your
Adventure Sheet, and then Test your Skill. If you succeed,
turn to 331. If you fail, turn to 305.

84
When you rush out into the street at the far end of the
alley, there is no sign of the woman. But you can hear
footsteps coming up the alley behind you, so you keep
on running. Wherever you go, you see more and more
85

examples of chaos, all caused by the strange smiling
people the woman called ‘Mandrakes’: they are power-
ful fighters who bleed green blood but never seem to
die. Their opponents, the real inhabitants of Gornt, are
totally outclassed. But the Mandrakes don’t kill their
human foes unless they have to; they prefer to render
their victims unconscious so that they can drag them
off, who knows where, You wish that there was some-
thing you could do to help the oppressed townsfolk,
but the shouting and the footsteps dogging your heels
remind you only too‘clearly that you yourself are still
in peril, Now you can either keep heading the way you
are going, towards the South Gate (turn to 184), or
you can veer off and head for the nearest portion of the
town wall (turn to 207)

85
The coil of veins crawls further up your arm, before
suddenly falling away. You feel no ill-effects and are
just wondering what all this has been about — when
you see that the thing on the stone slab is changing
shape; moreover, it is taking on your likeness!

The Mandrake replica rises from the slab and attacks
you. If it kills you, it will take your place in society and
no one will ever be the wiser. The Mandrake does not
possess any armour or special equipment, but it does
have the same weapon as you. It also has current SKILL
and sTAMINA scores identical to your own. Mandrakes
are usually well-nigh indestructible, but if you defeat it
now, while it is still newly formed, it will return to its
pod-like shape

86

If you win, you will have to Test your Luck to see
whether the noise of your fight has alerted the others.
If you are Lucky, return to 255 and choose an option
you have not had before. If you are Unlucky, turn

to 31§,

86

Rubbing his well-manicured hands in unresirained glee,
Bartolph sits beside you and hands you a die. ‘Put some
gold on the table as a stake,’ he says, ‘and roll the die. If
you roll 4 or above, you win: you keep your stake-
money and you take an amount equal to your stake
from my own purse. If you roll less than 4 you lose,
and 1 keep your stake, Easy, eh?’ Yes, you think, almost
too easy. A small crowd, drawn by the exaggerated
loudness of Bartolph’s voice, gathers round to watch.
Decide how many Gold Pieces you wish to gamble and
note the amount on your Adventure Sheet. Roll one die:
ona roll of 4-6, turn to 54; on 1-3, turn to 43.
87

87

In the struggle, a torch is knocked over on to some
highly inflammable chemicals, and soon the lab is ablaze,
You make a hurried dash for the exit; on the way out,
you may grab one of the following items which are
lying about the place: a sword, a pack holding 2 Pro-
visions, a ceramic mongoose paperweight, or a lantern
and one skin of oil. Then you race down the staircase,
turning a deaf ear to Kauderwelsch’s screams, Only
when you reach the road to the south of Cumbleside
do you stop to look back. The entire tower is engulfed
in flames. Then you look away, and continue south-
west, into a sheltered glade where you sleep for a few
hours (restore 2 points of sTAMINA)

88-89

When you wake up, it is to the dawn of a sunny day.
Will you cut westwards and join the road to Shattuck
(turn to 334), or take the southern road which leads
straight to the Witchtooth Line (turn to 386)?

88

You don’t let anything distract you as you run over the
slick, quaking ground. However, the way ahead is
blocked by the huge mound. Will you approach the
screaming face (turn to 378), make for the copse which
is off to your right, in the hope of veering back south
later (turn to 63), or retreat and head back north-west,
towards the road (turn to 160)?

You have entered the cultists’ dormitory, a small room
containing bunk beds and basic washing facilities. At
trst the place appears to be empty, but then an old man
steps out from the shadows. Though clad in the robes
of a cultist, he is human. He fixes you with a penetrating
stare, his lined face displaying wisdom beyond years. ‘I
was wondering when you'd get here. You shun the
casks, yet take on a quest as dangerous as fhis!’ He steps
rorward, Will you strike him (turn to 1§6) or wait to
see what he does next (tum to 15)?

"

ida

go

go
Once your dizziness clears, you find yourself standing
at the foot of a grassy hill crowned by a circle of
ancient standing stones. You have been transported to
Cauldon Ring, heartland of the elemental gods, An
awe-inspiring vision of the Horned God fills the skies,
while the ghostly Sisters of Time dance within the
circle. They are the past, present and future manifesta-
tions of the Earth-mother, and they guard the Spear of
Doom. The Horned God speaks to you with a voice
like the crashing of waves: ‘You have been chosen to
face Voivod, Lord of the Shadow Warriors, We once
made the error of trying to burn out his fire, but could
only imprison him, In the millennia which have passed,
we have made good our error and have forged the
Spear of Doom, which gives death to the living, and
life to the dead. Take it, and use it wisely.’

All at once you discover the Spear in your hands, and
you start to feel dizzy once more. Enter the Spear in the
Equipment box of your Adventure Sheet, together with
its Life-force, which you find by rolling one die and
adding 5. The Spear is nof a normal weapon: you may
use it instead of normal combat (you must decide
whether or not to do so before you start any fight) and tt
will automatically defeat your foe — but you must also
deduct one point from the Spear’s Life-force. If its Life-
force drops to zero, the Spear becomes useless, Now,
restore 6 points to your STAMINA and, if you came here
frém Hustings, turn to 12; otherwise, turn to 399.
91-93

gI
Your bid for freedom ends in failure. The Mandrakes
seize you and take you into one of the wagons, where
a disgusting sight awaits. They press you up against a
throbbing, man-sized vegetable pod, The thing starts
changing shape. It is taking on your likeness! You die
here, but other people will later insist that they have
met you, only you've changed in some way. In fact,
they'd swear that you no longer seem to be yourself!

gz
You hear a loud snapping sound — the highwayman has
fired his crossbow! Fortunately, his aim is none too
steady. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, the shot misses
you; if you are Unlucky, however, the shot finds its
mark and you must deduct 3 points from your STAMINA.
If you survive the attack, you must fend off the highway-
man, who has now drawn his shortsword.

HIGHWAYMAN SKILL 7 STAMINA 6

If you win, turn to 274

93
You can think of many things you'd like to do in your
lifetime, but scrubbing the filth off forty Orcish boots
isn’t one of them. Just as you finish scrubbing your last
boat, the tribe’s shaman orders four Orcs to seize you.
She has them manacle you to a blood-stained stretch
rack. Then she dutifully steps aside as Uggamonggo
walks forward. He grunts, ‘My shaman reckonz yer on
a secret mishun ta try an’ find out our war planz. Now
yoo’d better tell uzz what yer up to, or yoo'll gain a

94-95

few inches.’ Will you talk (turn to 198) or keep quiet
cum to 269)?

94
Note on your Adventure Sheet how many Gold Pieces

‘ou wish to risk and then roll one die. On a roll of 3-4,
cum to 54; on aroll of 1 or 2, turn to 162

You stand dead still as Smegg waves grandly about
aim and says, ‘We on the door of Elfie temple. No go.
No safe. Me Smegg of the secret ways, Past the Elfies.
Got rope for climb down safe hole. Smeggies route, it
‘s. Can take you. Must take you. Must come or die.
Eifies kill. Go any place by Smeggies route.’ He walks
over to you and shows you the long coils of stout rope
ne is carrying over his shoulder. ‘Smeggies rope,’ he
says proudly. If you ask Smegg to take you south, tum
0 224. If you would rather make your way alone, turn
70 §0.

96-97
96

After some time, you arrive once more at the bridge
you crossed earlier, only now it is guarded. Silhouetted
against the sky is the brooding, mounted form of a
Shadow Warrior! It sees you almost at once and shouts
out its terrifying cry. Roll one die to see which of the
five Warriors you must fight. If you roll a 6, ignore the
result and roll again. When, after defeating the Warrior,
you are told to continue your adventure, turn to 11
(note this on your Adventure Sheet). If you roll:

Turn to 8
Tur to 394
Tur to 2§9
Tum to 183
Turn to 245
Roll again

Ow & Wb R

97
You hurry across to the old armourer, who soon has

you outfitted to your requirements: you may take a
sword and a suit of Plate Armour. The Plate can take
five hits before it becomes useless. If you are hit while
wearing the Plate, you lose no sTAMINA points. How-
ever, if you have to Test your Skill while wearing it, you
must add 2 to your roll. Make a note of anything you
wish to take in the appropriate boxes of your Adventure
Sheet (remembering to cross off any weapons or armour
you may already have). You are just about finished
when you hear Wulf shout, “Duck!” Test your Luck.
If you are Lucky, turn to 323; if you are Unlucky, turn
to 241.

98—ro1

98

The moment you touch the sphere, its sides flick open.
Vicious blades, piercing spikes and slicing razors spring
out in all directions. Roll one die to see how many of
the projections injure you, For each wound, rol] another
die and deduct that many points from your STAMINA. If
you are still alive, you may attack the Man-Orc {turn to
132), try to expose him for what he really is (turn to
310), or ignore him and go to the bar (turn to 4).

99

The lady looks at you as you look dubiously at a boiled
potato. ‘Is something wrong?’ she asks coyly. ‘I wouldn't
have thought someone with as marvellous a brain as
yours would be so suspicious.’ Will you apologize and
eat the food she has kindly prepared for you (turn to
235). ignore the food and try to engage her in conversa-
tion (turn to 173), or leave the tower and go out to
search through the menace-laden streets of Cumbleside
(turn to 23)?

100

You cross your fingers and step over the edge, Test
your Skill, If you succeed, turn to 238; if you fail, tum
to 204

101

‘Don’t take no notice of ‘er,’ says the beggar, waving a
dismissive hand at the priestess. ‘She don’t know nuffin’
wiv all ‘er books, she’s ficker’n a frog in a fog. Da man
o’ numbers ain’t stone. E couldn't ‘ave seen no Gorgon,

102

cause ‘e’s blind.’ You don’t even have time to thank the
beggar for this valuable tip before he’s heading in the
direction of the nearest tavern, clutching his Gold
Piece. Sadly you shake your head. Turn to 159.

102

The 200 Gold Pieces you have been promised as pay-
ment is no longer important. Mendokan and his people
were under your protection and you have failed them.
The Shadow Warriors’ power is awesome, unlike any-
thing you have ever seen before; but you shall defeat
these dark riders, you shall avenge all the innocent folk
whom they have slain. For surviving the ambush, you
may add 2 points to your LUCK.

It is dawn when you reach the southern exit of the
Magyaar Pass, a place you will always remember as the
scene of your greatest defeat. You stop to rest and
consider your next move. The road to Karnstein leads
straight to the south. Until you get there, more villagers
will suffer or die each night. To the east, however, lives
an all-knowing hermit; maybe you should learn all
there is to know about these seemingly indestructible
Warriors before you go rushing into battle. The hermit,
alone, may possess such esoteric knowledge. Will you
head south to Karnstein (turn to 11) or east in search of
the hermit (turn to 113)?

103-104

103
As casually as you can, you reply, ‘No, I’m needed
elsewhere.” The clown glowers at you for an instant.
Then she smiles, and the moment passes. Restore 1
LUCK point and turn to 39.

104

Seizing your chance, you leap off the edge of the
bridge and dive down, down, down, into the murky
waters below. Though you have thwarted the Man-
drakes, you have leapt out of the frying pan into the
fire. You are barely able to stay afloat, as you find
yourself caught in the famous Tass rapids. If you are
wearing any armour, you will have to drag it off before
it pulls you under (cross it off your Adventure Sheet).
Your body is carried downstream at amazing speed.
But as the river races through a mountain valley, you
fear you will be smashed against the increasing number
of boulders littering the middle of the river. Test your
Skill six times, in order to avoid the rocks, Each time
you fail a test, deduct 3 points from your sTAMINA,. If
you survive this battering, you are washed up on the
river's edge — on the south side of the Witchtooth
Mountains! Dazed, bruised and exhausted, you fall
asleep.

When you wake up, it is to a new day. You continue on
your way, following the perimeter of the mountains,
south-eastwards. In time you come to a large cavemouth.
If you wish to enter the cave, tum to 395; but if you
would rather pass it by and continue eastwards, turn
to Bo.
105—I07

105
You soon arrive at the wood-and-glass door of
‘Hegmar’s Sanctum’. Within, all is dark and nothing
stirs; the magician is nowhere to be seen. However, the
door is open, so you slip inside and close it behind you.
Hiding in the shadows, you watch as your pursuers
rush right past. You wait for the sound of their steps to
recede before coming out of cover. You are in Hegmar’s
showroom, a small place cluttered with objects of all
kinds. lt is strange that Hegmar should leave his ex-
pensive wares unattended, but you don’t give this fact
much thought as you study your surroundings. Only
three things seem to be of any particular interest. Will
you go over to the magician’s desk (turn to 147), hide
in an ancient sarcophagus (turn to 193) or study a
smooth crystal sphere mounted on an ivory pedestal
(turn to 312); or do you prefer to leave thern all alone
and hurry out of the sanctum, to continue your flight
from the guards (turn to 216)?

106
Descending a long, wide staircase, you come to a
crossroads. Will you go:

North? Turn to 169

South? Turn to 114

East? Turn to 122

West? Turn to 144
107

A handful of the Burgomeister’s ghoulish servants are
coming down the alley to his aid and are almost upon
you. Desperate, you shove Ennian away and run off up
I08—1I0

the alley. But this action will achieve nothing unless
you can exploit it. If you have a Fire-cracker, turn to
347- Otherwise, turn to 31.

108

Dodging the menacing form of the Haggwort, you
strike out across the moors — only to fall into a sinkhole.
Soon you are waist deep in quicksand ... and sinking
fast. If you have a rope and grapple, you swiftly throw
the hook round the branch of a tree and pull yourself
oul; tum to 168, If you do not have a rope, you will
have to climb out. Test your Skill twice. If you succeed
in both tests, turn to 168; but if you fail in either or
both of them, tum to 117

I

Guignol cries, ‘We've done it. The skeleton is now
ready for transportation,’ But you are not interested in
any of this, as you have been suddenly overcome by a
strange dizzy feeling A red haze has descended over
your vision, and when you next look at Guignol it is
with uncontrollable hatred. Terror crosses his face as
you dive, snarling, towards him.

GUIGNOL SKILL 7 STAMINA 12

IF you win, turn to 1865.

110
Some of the barrows can be flipped over with a nudge
of the shoulder; other stalls are large affairs requiring a
hefty shove, Whatever the method, the result is the
same: chaos. The guards get caught up in a tangle of

III-1I12

vegetables and angry traders, hurling abuse in their
distinctive accent. Smiling, you grab some food {add
‘wo meals’ worth of Provisions to your Adventure
Sheet) and are about to head up the narrow street when
you trip over a pile of spilt mangoes. Test your Skill. If
you succeed, you may continue on your way (turn to
78); but if you fail, you stumble and are captured by the
guards (turn to 199).

IItl

Most of the Shadow Warriors ride on, out of sight, but
one of them wheels his horse round and thunders
towards you! You run back into the darkest corner of
the shelter and wait. Tense seconds pass in silence, and
then the Shadow Warrior appears in the doorway,
screeching its fury. Roll one die to see which of the five
you must face. When, after defeating the Warrior, you
are told to continue your adventure, you flee eastwards
and must turn to 399 (note this on your Adventure
Sheet). If you roll:

I Turn to 8
2 Turn to 394
3 Turn to 259
4 Turn to 183
7 Turn to 245
6 Roll again

112
You have the door open in no time at all, revealing a
squalid cell. A ragged old man steps out and gasps,
Free at last! You have the heartfelt thanks of Parcleasus
the numerologist. Believing the Gorgon to be dead, I
113

came to these Forbidden Caves on a quest for know-
ledge. Little did I think that she had been revived by an
evil necromancer, who also set about filling her caves
with such tricks as the illusory sound of snakes. She
was unable to freeze me because my eyes are blind, I
use mystic sight. But what of you?’ Sensing Parcleasus’s
goodness, you tell him everything. When you have
finished he says, ‘This must be more than coincidence.
You cannot hope to defeat Voivod without this.’ He
pulls a crumpled piece of paper out of his tunic and
gives it to you, ‘This is the most vital page of my
Science of Numbers. Take it; it will reveal all.’

You can study the page now or at any time in the
future by turning to 16 (make a note of this number on
your Adventure Sheet). Your work here completed, you
lead Parcleasus out of the cave. He clasps your hand in
fellowship and bids you farewell. Then he makes for
Shattuck, while you must go to Karnstein; turn to 80.

113
You make straight towards the east and soon come to a
large bridge. You cross it and join the Weirtown road,
which you follow until you reach the region of low,
wooded hills where the hermit is said to live — an area
also renowned for its highwaymen! The sun is sinking
when you leave the road and take a winding tail
northwards, up on to the high ground. There, you find
a famous landmark, the Wizard's Well. An old wizardly
face, carved in a low overhang of moss-covered rock,
looks down on a magic spring. Only good can come
from partaking of this fluid. Will you pause to drink

114-117

trom the Wizard’s Well (turn to 194), or continue on
your way (turn to 349)?

114
Descending a long, wide staircase, you come to a
crossroads. Will you go:

North? Turn to 106

South? Turn to 187

East? Tum to 232

West? Turn to 144
I1§

Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 222; if you are
Unlucky, turn to 140.

116

‘Gornt?’ she asks lightly. Yes, we were there until
yesterday when everything seemed to go insane.
Indeed it was the barbaric, crazy behaviour of the
townsfolk that led to our premature and hurried depar-
ture. We were frightened for our very lives. My magi-
cian, Monty Caphisto, reckons that it must have been
something in the water.’ You notice a hint of a smirk
pass fleetingly over the clown’s lips. ‘But what about
you?’ she asks lightly. ‘Would you care to join the
Circus of Dreams permanently?’ Will you answer yes
turn to 148) or no (turn to 103)?

I17
Soon the only sign of your ever having been on the
marsh is the rapid flow of air-bubbles that break the
surface of the quicksand ~ before trailing to a halt.
118-119

118
The street opens out on to a round court, which is
jammed solid with people; it is the famous Ranters’
Corner. Here people stand on boxes and make speeches
on any subject they like. In return, the crowds often
heckle the ‘ranters’, as the speakers are called. You rush
into the sea of bodies and momentarily shake off all
pursuit. The guards find it hard to push through the
crowds, who are not slow in voicing their resentment
at being shoved about. In the event of any public
unrest, some guards always occupy the comer; the
marshal of these men is now making his way over to
the guards following you, no doubt to demand an
explanation. Despite your peril, you cannot resist hang-
ing around and listening to the various ranters. Will
you listen to an earnest young lady (turn to 289}, a
ragged old man (turn to 219), or a man in black who
raves and shouts at his browbeaten audience (turn to

137)?

119
Your excitement at having escaped from the tribe fades
when you see dozens of small arrows fly over you.
However, the arrows aren’t coming from the Orcs of
the Black Scorpion but are going towards them. Their
rivals, the Orcs of the Big Boulder, are launching a
surprise attack. One of the arrows hits you in the side
(deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA). Will you forgive
this slight error in their aim and offer your services to
the Orcs of the Big Boulder, hoping to avenge your
earlier captivity (turn to 377}, or are you content to let
I20-I2]

the Orcs get on with their own fighting, and head
southwards before you are seen (turn to 282)?

120
You snatch the amulet from the Man-Ore’s neck, drop
it on the floor and crush it underfoot. The effect is
instantaneous: the veterans realize the deceit played
upon them at once, and their fury at being duped is
beyond compare. Once they have finished with the
Orc, the oldest of the veterans turns to face you.
‘Accept my apologies, he says, ‘we were foolish. Maybe
we have been living in the past for too long. Let us put
all this behind us, and may a real peace between the
nations start here, in this humble tavern.’ In no time at
all it is as if the four of you have always been the best
of friends, and it is with some reluctance that you rise
to continue on your journey.

When you step outside the door, however, you find
yourself staring into the playful eyes of Jack-in-the-
Green. ‘Peace in Narbury-is yours, he says. ‘Now a
token and advice. Go straight to the ring which is too
big for your finger.’ Then he is gone. If you do not
already have a Green Leaf Brooch, you find one in your
pocket — add it to your Adventure Sheet. Now, will you
head back east towards the Main Trade Route (turn to
267), or cut across country so that you can rejoin the
Trade Route much further south (turn to 47)?

121
‘There is too much corruption in the world,’ says Jack-
in-the-Green. ‘The sleepers who should not be disturbed

122-124

have been aroused. Your task is to lay Hustings to rest.
Let the earth reclaim its own — but be warned! Violence
can never be the final answer. Evil must be left to
consume itself, Your duty is to help, not to beget
further chaos. When you think you have succeeded, say
the word “Cerunnos” in your mind and we will see
what unfolds.’ Make a note on your Adventure Sheet of
this word, and turn to 19.

122
Descending a long, wide staircase, you come to a
crossroads. Will you go:

North? Turn to 169

South? Turn to 114

East? Turn to 232

West? Turn to 253
123

The jailer bellows with laughter at your terrible perform-
ance; he just cannot believe that you have tried to pull
such an ancient stunt. Then he returns to his book,
giggling now and then at your atrocious acting. You
will have to try something else, Will you pour Metal
Rot, if you have any, on to the lock of the cage (tum to
7), hurl an insult ot the jailer in the hope that he will
come into your cell to punish you, giving you a chance
to overpower him (turn to 26), or abandon all hope and
wait for the dungeon-wagon (turn to 208)?

124
Though the walls of the pit are sheer, you use your
rope and hook to climb up and make an easy escape.
I25§

You put the rope back in your pack and walk on. Soon
you come to a junction. Will you go:

Left? Turn to 296
Right? Turn to 217
Straight on? Tum to 139
Back the way you came, and out of

the caves? Turn to 80

12
You hurl the Fire-cracker to cm floor (cross it off your
Adventure Sheet). BANG!!! Both Kauderwelsch and her
monster are stunned, giving you time to unbuckle the
straps that are holding you down. If you have a weapon,
you may hastily snatch it up before fighting the mon-
ster

KAUDERWELSCH MONSTER
SKILL 8 STAMINA 14

If you win, turn to 87.

126-128

126

It can hardly be said that you are travelling in luxury.
The stench of the rubbish strewn over your body is
truly revolting. Worse still, a contagious, turquoise
mould has started to creep across your belongings.
While it will not harm you, it does make your food
unfit to eat. If you are carrying any Provisions, cross
two meals off your Adventure Sheet, After much pitching
and tossing, the vehicle reaches the East Gate. Turn
tO 301

127
Two cultists step out of the secret passage. Before they
can see you, you drop to the floor and throw the
Chameleon Cloak over yourself. The Dark Elves sit
down and talk. Behind them, the secret door starts to
slide shut. Now, if you want to, you may hurry through
the secret door before it shuts (turn to 295). Otherwise,
you will have to go back out into the hal! and choose
either the north door (turn to 374), the east door (turn
to 89) or the west door (turn to 56). Whichever way
you go, you take off the Chameleon Cloak and return it
to your pack once you have left the library. Because the
Dark Elves remain inside the library, you dare not risk
retuming here again. Note on your Adventure Sheet that
you may not choose 68 again.

128
Casually averting your gaze, you take the sphere from
your pack and hand it over to the highwayman. His
eves open wide with pleasure — he cannot believe that
ne has earned such a prize. Yet as the crystal starts to
.-

129-130

glow, his smile fades into a gaze of dull stupor. The orb
has stolen his mind! Carefully you return the sphere to
your pack, then prod the bedy of the highwayman,
Though still alive, he falls to the ground, mindless. You
consider searching the body, but can’t bring yourself to
do it. Will you now drink at the Wizard's Well (turn to
58), go north in search of the hermit, whom the high,
wayman claimed to have killed (turn to 349), or leave
the area altogether and head back south (turn to 44)?

129

You shake off your unseen assailant’s hand and spin
around, Though you can’t see the woman at all well,
you can clearly hear her begging you to stay your
hand, If you now do as she asks, turn to 1§8; but if you
reckon that it's just a trap, press on with your attack,

ASSAILANT SKILL 6 STAMINA 8

If you win, turn to 31.

130
‘T know only that Karnstein is a boring little village in
the middle of nowhere, and that it was once the site of
some ancient battle. Why do you ask?’

Deliberately avoiding any details, you reply, ‘I've heard
rumours of trouble there, fighting with strange crea-
tures. Someone will want a sword for hire.’

She murmurs thoughtfully, ‘Strange creatures, eh?
Good, We could do with some competition.’ Then she
snaps out of her daze and says, ‘If it’s money you want,
forget Karnstein, Why don’t you join our circus ...

131-132

permanently?’ The offer takes you by surprise, Do you
answer yes (turn to 148) or no (turn to 103)?

131

Your fingertips barely scrape the edge of the far path,
and it is with a lurching sense of horror that you realize
you are falling into the deep crevice. The rocky ground
rises to meet you. Your quest is over,

132
Stars and swirling fog cloud your vision as you lunge
for the Man-Orc — the landlord has coshed you (deduct
2 points from your STAMINA)

When you wake up, miles back east on the road you
came along, you see that the veterans have looted your
body: cross off all your gold, your weapon and armour
from your Adventure Sheet, It would be suicidal to go
back to the Burning Balrog Inn, so you decide to
continue towards Karnstein. If you wish to keep going
to the east, back to the Main Trade Route, turn to 267,
If you would rather cut across country and rejoin the
Main Trade Route much further south, turn to 47.

133-135

133

Voivod strikes at you, and your body is cut into many
pieces before it hits the ground again. The Earth-mother
and the Homed God shall weep at your failure, for
your failure means the end of all life.

134
Woad’s shrieks ring in your ears as you spring up the
broad street — only to see more guards ahead of you!
Alerted by the shouts of your pursuers, these men draw
their swords and attempt to block your route. The only
way out of this trap is through a house standing to
your right. Without a moment's hesitation, you open
the door to this ramshackle place and enter. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, tum to 277; if you are Unlucky,
tum to 166.

135
All is dark and a storm rages overhead as you make

your way towards Hustings. The road is little more than
a track that winds its way across the infamous Hustings
moors and, because of the downpour, is submerged in
places, becoming part of the mire. Wary of encroaching
quicksand, you press on, your efforts aided by the
occasional lightning flashes of the storm. Suddenly you
catch sight of a peculiar, grinning face. At first you
think that someone must be hiding in the reeds, but
then you realize that the leafy face is the reeds, moving
from clump to clump as if blown by the wind. It speaks
in a spry and mischievous voice: ‘ “Tis Jack-in-the-Green,
the ancient king, here to offer you guidance. The world
is dying, the soil corrupt and the trees astir with

136-137

violence. Warriors five seek their lord, the one who
must not be freed. Earth-mother seeks a healing hand,
but ‘tis proof of your worth she needs.’ If you have a
Green Leaf Brooch, tum to 19. Otherwise, Jack-in-the-
Green will offer you a chance to prove your worth. If
you will accept his task, turn to 121. If not, turn to 19.

136
‘Yoo don’t expect uzz ta believe that rubbish, do yoo?’
sneers the shaman. Uggamonggo doesn’t believe a
word of it either. The next thing you know, you are
being stretched again (deduct 3 points from your sTAM-
INA). Now will you tell them the truth (tum to 256) or
claim to be a military spy (turn to 363)?

137

The man wearing close-fitting black garments has a
young yet leathery face and close-cropped hair. He
shouts with a consuming anger: ‘We waste too much
time trying to appease our neighbours. It was they who
started the War of the Four Kingdoms, yet it is we who
must go crawling to them for trade. We should seize
what is rightfully ours. Now our great nation is eclipsed
by the barbaric Femphrey. We are clearly superior and
would have won the war, were it not for that old fool
Tantalon who sold us, his people, down the river.
Traitor! We must demand recompense or take it for
ourselves from Brice, Femphrey and those rats in the
north. Northlanders and sorcerers! Pah! The enemy
within. We want to be proud of Gallantaria again. We
want war!’

138-139

This agitator is cruel and narrow-minded — and yet,
unbelievably, some of the people seem to be nodding
at his words of blind hatred. Someone must take a
stand against him. Will you argue with the agitator
(turn to 205) or silence him with your fists (turn to

149)?

138
Feeling smug, you challenge the clown to a friendly
game of dice, She agrees, and a small crowd gathers to
watch you thrash the living daylights out of her.
Though she manages to maintain her smile, you sense
her anger. She pushes, prods and twists the loaded die
in a bid to discover its mechanism, but fails.

Eventually, she concedes, ‘An obvious trick, but the
punters should be deceived by it.’ Turn to 77.

139
If this is your first time here, turn to 308. If it is not

your first time here, things are as you feft them, and
you will have to retrace your steps back to the junction.
There, you may turn either to the left {turn to 217) or
to the right (turn to 296), or continue straight on, out
of the caves (turn to 80).

1490

140
Bartolph squirms in fear as you crush his wrist in a grip
of iron; but when you call him a cheat, he reacts with
outrage. Although you're not sure whether or not this
anger’ is merely the art of a practised con-man, the
performance seems to work.

A number of onlookers step forward, “You lost fair ‘n’
square,’ snarls one.

‘No place for bad losers in ere,’ grunts another.

Before you know it, you are seized by a dozen strong
hands and thrown out into the street. You land flat on
your face, hitting the dirty cobbles with a painful thud
(deduct 1 sTAMINA point and cross off from your
Adventure Sheet the gold you lost).

Overcome with anger, you consider drawing your
sword and going back into the inn to deal with the lot
of them, But then again... Turn to 30

141-143

141

The tower is cracked and worm with age, its once bright
colours faded and peeled. There is only a single en-
trance, a door on which a brass plaque is fixed, engraved
with the following words: ‘Dr Kauderwelsch -- Diseases
of the Mind’. You try to open the door but it is locked.
Hanging at one side is a small bell-pull. Will you ring
the bell (turn to 281) or leave the tower and head into
town (turn to 212)?

142

Sounds of battle come from the town as the people of
Hustings defend their homes against the slaughtering
Haggwort fiends. You ignore the din as you reach the
foot of the pinnacle — and walk right into an ambush. A
door opens in the side of the pinnacle and six Haggwort
appear. They seize you and drag you up a long spiral
stairway which ends in a small room at the top of the
tower, One end of the room is closed off by heavy
drapes,

If you have a weapon, cross it off your Adventure Sheet
— the Haggwort have just broken it! They force you to
sit down at a table, on which rest a sharpened wooden
stake and a plate. The Haggwort mutely motion you to
eat the ‘food’ on the plate: a mound of wet sludge.
Will you eat the food (tum to 61) or refuse (turn to

359)

143
Roggmondo’s face is impassive as he gestures towards
a big leather chair in the middle of the room. Fixed to

144

one of the arms of the chair is a small tray holding all
the pins and dyes that Roggmondo uses in his work.
You settle down in the seat and Rogemondo shows a
book: filled with stylish pictures and designs which
range from the everyday to the exotic, Suddenly the
door bursis open and five city guards rush in, swords
drawn. You are caught sitting down. The captain shouts
triumphantly through his helmet, ‘Gotcha’ Turn to
199.

144
Descending a long, wide staircase, you come to a
crossroads. A strange fire burns you (deduct z point

from your STAMINA). Will you go:

North? Turn to 106
South? Turn to 187
East? Turn to 122

West? Turn to 253
145

14
You run to the meeting place and are pleased to find
Mendokan and his two friends waiting for you. One of
them is very old, making the ensuing journey painfully
slow. To make up for this, you have to walk long into
the night and are all very tired when you reach the
Magyaar Pass, This, the narrowest stretch of the Trade
Route, is little more than a rocky path. On the left
looms a sheer rock-face, and on the right runs a deep
crevice, about six metres wide and five times that deep.
On the far side of the crevice is another path, By
common agreement, all traffic from Lendle uses the
path you are on, while all traffic going to Lendle uses
the far path. As you walk through the pass, the Magyaar
Walls blot out the moonlight and the shining stars

above.

Suddenly, a dreadful cry pierces the air, followed by
another, and another. The villagers cringe in terror,
while you prepare for combat. Then you see them,
coming along the path towards you: five riders on
hellish steeds whose hoofs make the very earth quake,
and who race to crush you underfoot. Their robes
billow and their long hair flows in the wind. Even
though they wear strange metallic masks, you can see
that their skin is decayed and their eyes are black
bottomless pits of death Mendokan wails, ‘We are
doomed, The Shadow Warriors are upon us! The others
run, but their flight is a futile one; they are swiftly put
to the sword, But the Warriors, they are real after all!
Will you stand and fight them (tum to 1go) or admit
that you cannot hope to fend off all five united, and flee
(turn to 28)?
146-147

146

You maintain a dignified yet stubborn silence, The
shaman laughs and dances as the torturer cranks the
handle on the stretch rack yet again (deduct 3 more
points from your sTAMINA). ‘Are you stoopid or
summat?’ asks Uggamonggo. ‘If yoo wanna see tomor-
ter, yoo'd better talk fast (turn to 198), but if yoo
wanna die, just carry on keepin’ yer gob shut (turn to
269).’

147
Lying on the desk you find a freshly written document
— the ink on the vellum page is still wet. You read the
text: it is copied in a hand which grows increasingly
spidery and fraught:

The Dream Circus has come to Royal Lendle. This
innocuous-seeming little troupe has spread its evil for
over @ year now, passing from village to village across
Gallantaria unaware that I have been keeping a watch
on its movements, awaiting the moment to act. The
plan is clever. I can only hope to uncover its architect
before matters come to a head. Wait! My door apens
and three Circus people enter. They know, they know!
The Mandrakes, Must conjure fire to destr

The letter ends suddenly. Now the mystery is less so.
These Mandrakes, whatever they are, must have taken
or destroyed the magician — but, to do that, they must
be incredibly powerful. You have stumbled on the
edges of a vast plot. Add Hegmar’s Warning to your

148-149

Adventure Sheet. Now you can either examine the sarco-
phagus (turn to 193) or the crystal sphere (tum to
312), if you have not already done so; or you can leave

the building (turn to 216).

148

‘Well, that can easily be arranged,’ she snarls as she
kicks you off your high seat. You fall down on to the
dusty road, twisting your ankle (deduct 2 points from
your STAMINA). When you look up, you see that all the
circus performers have climbed down from their
wagons and are coming after you! The clown smiles as
you run for your life. If you have a set of Calthrops,
you throw them in the performers’ way. They will soon
give up the chase and continue on their journey south.
Erase the Calthrops from your Adventure Sheet and tum
to g. If you don’t have any Calthrops (or do not wish to
use them), turn to gi.

149

Sickened by the blackguard’s venom, you step forward
and lay him flat with a single punch. While many of the
onlookers gasp in surprise, four of them shout, ‘Brice-
ioving dogf' You realize that they must be followers of
the man you have just hit, trouble-making agitators
who are skilled at whipping up crowds into outbursts
of senseless violence. Indeed, it takes the men only a
minute to begin a mass brawl The unrest is growing
ugly and the city guards are hard pressed to restore
order. Will you join in and help them defeat the
trouble-makers (turn to 181), or use the confusion to
slip away towards the city’s East Gate (turn to 301)?
150-151

150

You hurry back out into the hall before the cultists,
coming out of the secret passage, see you. Back in the
hall, will you now go north (tum to 374), east (turn to
8g), or west (turn to 56)? Whichever way you go, you
dare not risk returning here again — because of the
Dark Elves. Note on your Adventure Sheet that you
may not choose 68 again.

I§k

Your money disappears into the gambler’s pocket via a
hand that looks like a vulture’s claw (deduct the gold
from your Adventure Sheet) Bartolph beams and says,
‘You played well, but Sindla was against you. However,
lest you start crying into your beer, the ever fair and
selfless Bartolph will give you a chance to win your
money back, and more besides — provided you can
afford a stake high enough to cover your losses. What's
more, this time I'll make it even easier for you. The
rules are as before, but now you need roll only 3 or
above to win Are you game?’ If you want to play
again, turn to 94; but if you would rather leave, turn
to 30,

152

152
Clouds of dust and fragments of sandstone fly through
the air, obscuring the skeleton as it stretches out to
destroy you. You will need Osmani, god of mercenaries,
on your side for this fight. If you have already put
manacles on the hands of the skeleton, you may subtract
2 from its SKILL score,

PAN-TERRIC BEHEMOTH SKILL 12

Your blows will not harm the creature; you need to
smash its skull, so, at the end of each round (whether
you win the round or not), roll one die, If you roll a 6,
you succeed and should turn at once to 329, If you roll
any other number, you miss the skull and must fight
another round as normal.

153-155

I
You watch in horrified fascination as the weird device
shakes the ground more violently. A building behind
you collapses, showering you with bricks. Roll one die
to see how many bricks hit you, Each hit means you
have to lose 2 points from your sTAMINA — though
armour will take the hits rst.

Wulf hurries over and frees you from the rubble. Tt’s no
use,’ he says grimly. ‘It’s the witch! She has powers we
cannot hope to understand. We must flee, along the
southern road’ Will you go with Wulf (kun to 25), or
leave him and go to settle the score with this ‘witch’
(turn to 142)?

154

You have not gone more than two metres when the
Slygore spits a gout of black pus at you, The gel
splashes, gurgling, on your back, where it burns and
hisses. Despite yourself, you scream and fall to your
knees (deduct 3 points from your sTAMINA). The Sly-
gore lurches towards your pain-racked form. You must
ignore the agony you are in and leap aside before the
monstrosity smothers you. Test your Skill. If you
succeed, turn to 2§0; if you fail, turn to 365

155
Ignoring the terrifying hissing sounds, you go quickly
through all the things lying scattered about the room
The only item of interest is a Copper Key, which you
may take. Then, finally, panic overtakes you and you
rush back to the junction. An inexplicable fear stops

156-157

you from entering this room ever again (note on your
Adventure Sheet that you may not turn to 296 again).

Back at the junction, you may either go to the left (turn
to 539), go to the tight, which will take you back out
of the caves (turn to 8o), or go straight ahead (turn to
237),

156
Disappointing.’ is all the old man says as he disappears
into thin air, ‘There is nothing for you bo do but retum
to the hallway, and then go through cither the south
Goor (turn to 68), the north door (hum to 374), or the
west door (tum to ¢6).

157
Reluctant to step into the dank chamber, you lean over
the gilt-edged mirror-frame and lash out at the parts of
the pod that are within your reach.

Your blows have no effect, however. ff you want to
risk touching the extended mesh of veins, turn to 371
Otherwise, you will have to leave return to a§§ and
pick an option you have not already chosen

158-159

158

Relieved, the woman leads you further down the alley.
When your eyes get used to the darkness, you can
make out that the woman is in a sorry state indeed; her
clothes are filthy and tattered, and there is a madness in
her eyes. She mumbles, “They came seven days ago,
and they left this morning. You're a stranger. You're
strong. They're taking over. You can’t kill them, Soon
they'll come for me. And for you too, unless you do
something. Perhaps you can beat them, the Mandrakes.
Taking our places,’ Her words tumble out in a repetitive,
almost insane babble. Then she stops.

She is looking over your shoulder, back up to the
entrance to the alley where a finely attired young man
is standing. He smiles and extends his hand, ‘Welcome,
stranger. | am Ennian, the Burgomeister. Ah, | see
you've been forced to listen to the ramblings of the
town idiot, The old fool’s been hopelessly insane for
years,” You look back towards the wretched woman.
Seeing the doubt growing in your eyes, she gasps, ‘A
mirror, ,, do you have a mirror?’ If you have a mirror,
turn to 362. If you do not, turn to 174.

1§9
At the far side of the square a commotion suddenly
breaks out: folk are screaming and running in all direc-
tions and, cutting a bloody path through them and
towards you, is a mounted Shadow Warrior! You must
defend yourself. Roll one die to see which of the
Warriors you must face. When you are told to continue
your adventure after defeating the Warrior, you will
160-161

have to leave Shattuck before the other Warriors arrive.
They are coming up the Main Trade Route, so you will
either have to cross a bridge to the east (turn to 334),
or take a little-used path which leads south-westwards
through the mountains (turn to 48). Now roll:

Turn to 8
Turn to 394
Turn to 259
Turn to 183
Turn to 245
Roll again

Ay OU NR

160
After some time, you come to a fork in the road. If you
wish to keep going westwards, tum to 96. If you
take the branch to the south-east, tum to 135.

164

What follows next is too horrific to contemplate, Urtha
just laughs as you follow the ritual laid down by the
folklore of ages. She even tells one of the Haggwort to
obey your commands. You order it to decapitate her
and then to throw both her head and her body out of
the open arch window. In seconds the dreadful deed is
done and Urtha’s remains are consigned to the stormy
skies. Pausing for a moment to regain your wits, you
turn to leave — only to find Urtha standing in your
way! ‘I told you, I am beyond undeath. | suppose it was
expecting too much for you to understand. Now,
enough of these games.’

162-164

It looks as if your time is up. Will you attack her (turn
to 305), throw a vial of Metal Rot — if you have one —
at her iron band (turn to 83) or try to escape (turn to
221)?

162

‘| don’t believe it’ Bartolph gasps in an irritating display
of mock surprise. Even at such odds, you've lost again.’
Once more, your stake is pocketed with amazing speed
(deduct the gold from your Adventure Sheet). Then, with
feigned concern, Bartolph says, ‘Oh, now | feel truly
guilty. Look, I'll give you one last chance. Rules as
before, but now all you have to do is roll a 2 or higher.
What d’you say?’

Will you accept Bartolph’s final challenge (turn to 13)
or leave the tavern feeling bitter, impoverished and out
of luck (turn to 30)?

163
The words of the merchant who sold you the cloak
spring to mind: ‘Fine though the garment may be, ‘tis
best used in the hours of darkness.’ At this very moment
you are trying to hide in an exposed place, beneath the
all-revealing light of a blazing sun. Test your Luck. If you
are Lucky, turn to 176; if you are Unlucky, turn to 35.

164
Rather than climb over the low wall, you hurry through
a wrought-iron gate which is decorated with shapes
like falling leaves. Inside, the grass is luscious and the
trees still fruitful, even though harvest-time was two
165

months ago. Outside the gate, the guards have stopped
their pursuit; they stand and watch you escape with
fear and frustration Ahead of you is a small, plain
building: this is the Temple of Geomancers, the earth-
priesthood who worship Titan. The Geomancers respect
nature in all its forms; they are a powerful and mysteri-
ous force in Royal Lendle, much resented for their
independence from the law of the land. Your plan is to
reach the streets beyond the temple grounds; but you
are dismayed to see that your way is blocked by a tall
fence dividing the estate into two halves, The only way
through this fence is via another wrought-iron gate. lts
two handles are fixed on to orate plaques, one plaque
representing the sun, the other the moon. Words have
been worked into the top of the gate, forming a riddle;
they read: ‘Reflector and reflected, one obscures the
other for entry,’ Will you turn the handle in the sun
(turn to 254) or the handle in the moon (turn to 264)?

165
Tm flattered by your interest in our humble little
entourage,’ she smiles “The Circus of Dreams has been
in existence for three years, spending the first two in
unappreciated poverty. But last year we had a change
of ownership, and with it came an improvement in
quality. The last twelve months have been most success-
ful, with the circus spreading its own particular brand of
entertainment across Gallantaria Having played the
villages, we are now moving on to the towns. One
day, we hope to play the Court in Royal Lendle itself.’
The clown’s itinerary sounds more like a war-plan than
a touring schedule to you. ‘We could use someone like

166-167

you,’ she muses. ‘Maybe you'd like to join the circus
permanently?’ Will you answer yes (turn to 148) or no
(turn to 103)?

166

Balanced on the top of the door was an anti-theft
device: a full chamber pot, which has just emptied its
reeking contents all over you! The tin bowl itself hits
you on the head, Deduct 1 point from your sTAMINA
and z point from your tuck for this mishap. You
recover, look around and discover that you are in an
old lady’s living-room. She jumps up from her rocking-
chair and screams, ‘Burglars! Robbers! Help, help!’

The city guards will not be slow in answering her cries.
Will you go on through a closed door leading to the
rear of the house (turn to 328), or up a rickety staircase,
leading to the first floor {turn to 292)?

167

The creature’s body thrashes wildly as you bind two of
its immensely strong wrists together. Then it is fully
awake. Each Attack Round, all four of its unfettered
arms attack you at the same time {each with a sKILL
score of 8), but you may strike back against only one of
them, as if fighting four separate opponents. If you win
against any of its other arms, your blows have no
effect, serving only as parries. Your work is cut out for
you as you face one of the ancient Kalundai.

KALUNDAI SKILL 8 STAMINA 20

If you win, turn to 320.

168-170

168
It takes you all your strength to escape the grip of the
mire, but at last you are free. Your already sodden
clothes are now caked with swamp mud. But dirt is the
least of your troubles; the Haggwort are converging on
the beleaguered town. Will you make for Hustings
(turn to 367) or the strange tower (turn to 142); or do
you prefer to continue across the moorland (turn to

69)?

169
Descending a long, wide staircase, you come to a
crossroads, A strange fre burns you (deduct i point
from your STAMINA), Will you go:

North? Turn to 106
South? Turn to 266
East? Tum to 122
West? Turn to 144

170

You reach into your pack and take out a skin of oil
(cross it off your Adventure Sheef), You are still trying to
set the oil alight when the Slygore spits a quivering
gout of liquid black mess at you. The sticky, gurgling
sludge hits your side and burns you (deduct 3 points
from your STAMINA), You scream, but manage to throw
the now-blazing oil all over the abominable creature
Though the fire causes Slygore’s bubbling skin to gurgle
more rapidly, it seems to have no adverse effect; it
does, however, make the creature pause in its tracks.
You seize the opportunity to turn tail and flee. Turn
to 180,

17

171

Holding the Spear of Doom up high, you shout your
war-cry and charge. The Spear is not meant to kill
Voivod; as the Horned God said, it returns life to the
dead. But Voivod is death itself, so the Spear may not
have enough Life-force to affect him_ Fight each Attack
Round of combat as normal; but once, at the end of
each round (whether you win the round or not), you
can attempt to give Voivod life. Roll two dice: if the
total rolled is equal to or less than the Spear’s current
Life-force, turn to 4oo; but if the number you rall is
higher, you have failed. If you fail, deduct z point from
the Spear’s Life-force, then fight another round of
combat, and so on, Because you are trying to wield the
Spear, you fight Voivod only in defence: if you win a
round, he loses no sTAMINA; on the other hand, Voived
thrives on your death, so if you /ose a round, you must
add any points of sTAMINA that you lose to Voivod’s
current total. If the Spear expends its Life-force, you
must try to defeat the Voivod in normal combat — only
then will your telling blows cause him to lose sTAMINA
points.

VOIVOD SKILL 10 STAMINA 10

Should it be that you win in normal combat, turn
tQ 303
172-173

172

At last you are free from this accursed nightmare — for
nightmare it was! You walked down the staircase only
once before being sent into a deep sleep by the Night-
mare Master, the true Guardian of the Gateway. Since
then, everything has been a dream, with you repeatedly
walking down the same staircase. You would have
done so for all eternity, had you not had the strength
of will to escape. When you wake up, at the foot of the
stairs, you see that you are actually inside a hellish
chamber, And in it stands your foe, the Nightmare
Master, surrounded by the tormented wails of the
many souls still lost in his evil dreamworld. The Guard-
ian attacks you without mercy, and his mystic weapons
have the power to blight your fate, Each time you lose
an Altack Round, you must deduct 1 point from your
LUCK, whether you lose sTAMINA or not.

NIGHTMARE MASTER _ skiLLg STAMINA O

If you win, turn to 361.

173
You ask the lady who she is. She replies, ‘Is it important?’
You reply that it is. At this, she stares at you intently
and asks, ‘And how long have you had this need to
identify things?’ You have had enough of this stupidity.
You strongly advise her to tell you who she is, but she
just rushes out of the room.

You follow her up a short staircase and into the highest
room in the tower: a laboratory packed with all sorts of
chilling apparatus. The lady dabbles in the worst sorcer-
ies, and her latest project is lumbering towards you. It
174-175

is a mish-mash of surgically joined body-parts. The
woman laughs at your horrified face and rants, ‘My
creation may not be a pretty sight, but it is highly
functional. All it needs now is an excellent brain. . . your
brain! Yes I am Doktor Kauderwelsch.’ The monster
steps forward to kill you.

KAUDERWELSCH MONSTER

SKILL 8 STAMINA 14

If you win, turn to 87.

174

You don’t understand the woman's odd request and
don’t have a mirror anyway, so you just shrug your
shoulders in uncertainty. Frustrated and no longer able
Eo contain her fears, the woman runs off towards the far
end of the alleyway. The Burgomeister calls over his
shoulder for some help, then laughs, ‘Not the best
company for a stranger to keep! It must all seem a tad
peculiar, but everything will make perfect sense if you'll
just come with me.’ All your instincts scream that there
is something terribly wrong here. Will you attack the
Burgomeister (turn to 252), make for the other end of
the alley after the woman (turn to 84), or comply with
Ennian’s wishes and go with him (turn to 31)?

175
Your skin prickles and it feels as if a knife is being
twisted in your gut when Bartolph leans forward and
thrusts his ruddy, laughing face mere inches away from
your own. ‘I'm sorry, but that’s it now. | won't play
with losers — after all, I do have to sleep at nights. The

176-177

game is over.’ Deduct the gold you have lost from
your Adventure Sheet — Bartolph has added it to his
already considerable winnings. Feeling somehow as if
you've been taken for a ride, you get up and walk out
of the First Step, Turn to 30.

176
Hugging the ground, you cannot help but think that,
for once, a trader at Royal Lendle has sold his mer-
chandise short. The Chameleon Cloak works its won-
ders as you sneak away beneath the smelly Orcs’ very
noses and escape.

However, you are now forced to leave the road and cut
south over the difficult mountain terrain, where pro-
gress is slow. After a few hours of hard slog, you find a
small mine shaft. [t goes down fifteen metres or so
before ending in an illuminated chamber of some sort.
The narrowness of the shaft prevents you from seeing
the nature of the place. If you have a rope and grapple,
you may use it to climb down the shaft (turn to 383). If
you do not have, or do not wish to use, any rope you
will have to continue your journey over the mountains
(turn to 282),

177
While you are looking in your pack for something to
give the scoundrel, it suddenly occurs to you that you
may be able to give him something which could prove
his undoing. If you want to give the highwayman a
Chameleon Cloak, tum to 220. If you would rather
give him an Orb of Mind-snaring, turn to 128. But if
178-180

you have neither of these things, you will either have
to offer him some gold (turn to 373) or attack him
(turn to 92).

178
You step quietly up to the shelter and reach for the
door handle. As soon as you touch it, the door swings
outwards, propelled by three powerful springs. Test
your Luck, If you are Lucky, tum to 64; if you are
Unlucky, turn to 342.

179

The big top is lantern-lit and lined with rows of seats in
readiness for tonight's performance. As you look at the
circus ring, the main pole, the trapeze, the tightrope,
you feel a mild headache rising behind your eyes. If
you have a mirror, turn to 268, If you do not, there is
nothing more for you to do here. It does occur to you,
however, that the secret of the circus is most likely to
be found in the Hall of Dreams. Return to 255 and
choose an option you have not picked before.

180
As you turn away from the Slygore, it spits a blob of
acidic black pus at your face. You manage to duck just
in time. The squeaking lump of muck flies over your
head and embeds itself in a sewer wall, turning brick
into dripping clay. Not waiting to see what the creature
will do next, you run for your life. With a great splash,
the Slygore drops its awesome body into the foul
waters and rushes after you. Soon, with sinking heart
you come to a dead end — and then you spot a ladder

181-182

leading back up to the surface! From above come the
faint voices of city guards looking for you. Behind you,
the Slygore raises itself up once more, its foul mass
now revealed by the light coming through an overhead
grid .., The sight is one you will never forget, Will
you now clamber up out of the sewer (turn to 18), or
turn and embrace the creature in close combat (turn to

365)?

181

You see that you can do most good by defeating the
toughest of the agitators, This huge brute is cutting a
swath of blood through bystanders and city guards
alike. There is no room for mercy with such villains!

AGITATOR SKILL 8 STAMINA 7

If you win, turn to 370.
182

Your foot lands jess than a finger’s width away from
the insidious artefact. What with the quicksand, the
183-184

Hagewort and now these evil traps, the moors are just
too dangerous. You decide to leave them at once. If
you want to go to the town, turn to 367, If you would
rather investigate the mysterious tower, turn to 142.

183

This Shadow Warrior wields a mighty, multi-headed
mace: each of its steel faces is covered with pyramid-
shaped spikes. In the Warrior's hands, the mace is a
devastating weapon. At the start of the battle, Test your
Luck, If you are Lucky, nothing untoward happens; if
you are Unlucky, however, the mace smashes your
weapon and you must fight without it (cross the
weapon off your Adventure Sheet). If you have no
weapon, the mace crashes into your body and you
must deduct 6 points from your STAMINA and 1 point
from your skiLL. Armour or Testing your Luck may not
be used to reduce this damage.

Fourth SHADOW WARRIOR skILLg STAMINA 9
If you defeat the Warrior, turn to 335.

184
You put on a final spurt so that you will reach the
South Gate well ahead of the mob. Just as you thought:
a Mandrake stands guard. From what you have already
seen, these creatures are good fighters and are im-
possible to kill. Though you could stun the guard, a
fight would be time-consuming, giving the mob a
chance to catch up with you. It would be far better if
you could sneak up on the guard and somehow render
him harmless without having to resort to combat. If

185

you have some manacles and would like to try to bind
the guard with them, turn to 319. If you don’t have any
manacles or would rather risk combat anyway, tum
to §5.

185

The skeleton stirs and drags itself free from the layers
of rock. And a nightmarish roar rises from its rib-cage -
as new flesh appears and starts to crawl back over its
bones! The beast is re-forming before your very eyes.
Only one creature could possibly do this, a thing which
also has the power of mind-control! Now you know
why you strayed off the road to Kamstein, now you
know why Guignol’s expedition found exactly what it
was looking for in the endless wilderness, now you
understand the reason for everything that has happened
here. You were all drawn here and controlled by a
fierce intelligence that plotted its own release. Only
now do you realize that you are facing a creature from
mythology: a Pan-Terric Behemoth! You must destroy
it before it is whole again. The only way to do so is by
smashing its skull. If you have a rope and grapple, you
may try to snare the creature; Test your Skill. If you
succeed, turn to 329. But if you fail, or if you do not
have a rope and grapple, turn to 152.

186-187

186

You wake up, bound to a table in a laboratory, in the
topmost room of the Cumbleside tower. The lady you
met earlier walks into view, clutching a scalpel! Her skin
is peeling, revealing an underlayer of scales. As if in
answer to your questioning stare, she says, ‘I am Doktor
Kauderwelsch. In my quest for immortality, | made the
mistake of experimenting with lizard organisms which,
even now, are taking me over, I will die unless I find a
way to transfer my mind into another body. And you
are a vital part in my most crucial experiment to date
Behold!’ She waves an arm and a horrible monster
lumbers forward. ‘1 have created this being from the
hnest parts of many creatures. All it needs now is a
brain — your brain!’ Kauderwelsch cackles madly, scalpel
raised, and the mindless monster looks as if it’s about to
strangle you. You quickly free one of your arms, but
you have time to reach for only one item; will it be
your weapon (turn to 242), a mirror (turn to 318) or a
Fire-cracker (turn to 125)? If you have none of these
things, your adventure ends here, in the advancement
of science!

187
Descending a long, wide staircase, you come to a
crossroads. A strange fire bums you (deduct 2 points
from your sTAMINA). Will you go:

North? Tum to 106
South? Tum to 114
East? Turn to 232

West? Turn to 253
188-190

188
If you allowed yourself to be diverted and gambled
with Bartolph in the First Step tavern, turn to 321. If
you did not, you may continue on your way. If you are

heading east, turn to 82; if you are heading west, turn
to 66

189
Voivod is about to toll the Iron Bell. If you have a vial
of Metal Rot and want to throw it at the bell, turn to
263. If you haven't ahy Metal Rot, but are willing to
try a desperate leap, in a bid to knock Voivod away
from the bell, turn to 348 If, however, you wish to do
neither of these things, turn to 364.

190

Though you attack with all your might, you are defence-
less against the onslaught of the malevolent riders.
They cut you and knock you fiercely to the ground
(deduct 4 points from your stamina) Lying on the
cold earth, it seems that you have three options: to stay
where you are and pretend to be dead (turn to 306), to
rise and fight them again (turn to 346) or to jump to
your feet and flee (turn to 28).

IQI-IQ3

191
The floor drops away beneath your feet, and you go
tumbling down into a deep pit (deduct 1 point from
your STAMINA). If you have a rope and grapple, turn to
124; otherwise, turn to 336.

192

You hide the Dark Elves’ bodies under the table, then
pause for thought, It would take hours just to find out
what all the different scrolls and books are about, and
time is short. So you content yourself with a brief look
at those texts which the cultists were perusing. Will
you read the Numeris Astrakkaans (turn to 366) or the
Ur-Mythalia (turn to 79)?

193
The burial casket is old beyond reckoning, and its

wood is primitively carved in the shape of a bestial
warrior, You pull open the cover of the sarcophagus
with great care and step in, It is only when the lid clicks
shut that the trap is sprung, however! Two sharp blades
flick inwards from the sides of the casket, cutting into
your calves and ankles (deduct 1 point from your
STAMINA and i point from your sKILL). In pain, you
free yourself and kick the lid open; you stumble out of
this wretched thing, which was taken, no doubt, from
the tomb of some king who had anticipated the coming
of treasure-seeking grave-robbers. To add insult to
injury, you now see, too late, that the carving on the lid
has no feet, You curse yourself for missing this sickly
humorous clue Now will you examine the crystal orb
(turn to 312) or Hegmar’s desk (turn to 147), if you
194-196

have not done so already; or will you leave this place
before worse befalls you {turn to 216)?

194

You walk over to the cool waters and are about to
drink when you hear a stern voice call, ‘Stand and
deliver’ You turn around and find yourself facing a
masked highwayman; he is aiming a crossbow at your
heart, The villain laughs. ‘No doubt you're another fool
in search of the hermit. Well, forget it. He’s dead, and ]
killed him. And I'll do the same to you unless you can
buy your freedom.’ His finger tightens on the trigger of
the crossbow.

Will you attack the knave (tum to 92), offer him some
gold (turn to 373), or look in your pack for something
else to give him (turn to 177)?

195
‘You're quite right,’ you reply to the Man-Orc with a

sickly smile. ‘It is none of my business, and I apologize.’
The Orc is astonished by this sudden turn of events,
and he doesn’t know what is going on when you pat
him on the shoulder with one hand and slip the Sleeping
Draught into his drink with the other. The bewildered
Orc takes a big gulp from his tankard , .. then falls flat
on his face! Tur to 120.

196
Your prospects of reaching the East Gate are soon
dashed when you see that the pathway ends in a high,
locked door. This door is too strong to be knocked

197

down and too smocth to be climbed, so you will have
to try and jump over it. If you wish to attempt such a
difficult feat, turn to §2. Otherwise, you will have to
go back up the alley and face any guards who may
have followed you down it; turn to 20.

197
The whole circus becomes one great funeral pyre. You

stand and watch as the flames leap high into the sky.
The stench of Mandrakes buming is indescribable! As
you look on, Jack-in-the-Green appears by your side,
‘Earth-mother is pleased with her champion. She sends
two gifts, The first is this...’ He hands you a Ring of
Destiny. From now on, whenever you are Lucky at
Testing your Luck, you do not have to subtract a Luck
point. As long as you have the ring, you need only
ever lose LUCK points if you are Unlucky, or if you are
instructed to do so by the text. ‘The second gift is
knowledge, The man of numbers is a native of Shattuck.’
Then the ever elusive figure is gone.

Grateful for the Earth-mother’s help, you move further
on and rest for the night in a quiet field. When you
wake up (restore 2 STAMINA points) you make your
way into Shattuck. The small town is refreshingly quiet
and untroubled. You need to find this ‘man of numbers’,
and the only way to do so is by asking around, Will
you start your search in:

The stores? Turn to 391
The taverns? Turn to 209
The town square? Turn to 27

}

;
fh
) “

i
‘ A
aii .

. '
y/ bMS
~<a

as ,

198-200

198
Will you tell Uggamonggo the truth, that you are a
mercenary on your way to Karnstein (tum to 256); that
youTe spying on the Orcs, on behalf of the king of
Gallantaria (turn to 363), or that you're not on any

mission at all, that you're just a simple adventurer (turn
to 136)?

199

The city guards take you to a nearby jail, where you
are to be held until dawn tomorrow. At that time, an
armoured wagon will come to take you to the city
dungeon — a grim complex from which very few ever
return. The guards take your weapon (cross it off your
Adventure Sheet) and lock you in a dirty cage. Then they
depart, leaving you in the care of the jailer. This brute
sits by a table, sucking on a bottle of grog and reading
a book called Confessions of a Rat-Catcher. Since there is
only one cage in the jail, no other prisoners and only
the single jailer, your thoughts turn to escape. Luckily,
none of your other possessions have been taken from
you. Will you pour some Metal Rot, if you have any,
on the lock and slip out (turn to 7); shout an insult at
the jailer, in the hope that he will come to punish you,
thus giving you a chance to overpower him (tum to
26}; think of a way to trick the jailer into setting you
tree (turn to 38), ar do nothing and await the morrow’s
dungeon-wagon (turn to 208)?

200
Rain pours down your face as you reach into your pack
for a vial of the precious potion. The Mahogadon

201

squeezes ever tighter and starts to pull you towards its
gaping, gnashing maw. Mere inches away from certain
death, you open the vial and fling its contents down
into the pool of sludge that surrounds the monster's
roots. Almost immediately, the Mahogadon sags, limp
and unconscious. Its branches unwind and roll you
away, down on to the muddy earth. The lightning no
longer hounds you as you make your way out of the
capse to freedom. If you now wish to continue south
wards, across more open country, towards Hustings,
turn to 135. If you would prefer to head back to the
safety of the road, turn to 160.

201

Urtha smirks, then orders the Haggwort to release you.
You rise from your chair and pick up the stake. Urtha
rips open her costume, revealing a disgusting black
hole over her heart. 1 told you,’ she says. ‘1 have
already been destroyed by the stake. By all the old laws
of nature, I should not be. Your stake destroys the
Undead. | am beyond undeath.’

202-203

If you have a vial of Metal Rot, you can now try
throwing it at her iron band (turn to 83). Otherwise
you will either have to attack her (turn to 305) or flee
(turn to 221).

202
There is no way that you can cross the chasm at this
point. But to your left is a narrow passageway, plunged
in total darkness. If you dare enter this corridor, turn to
283. If you would rather go back the way you came,
towards the shrieking cultists, turn to 297.

20

Only when you hit the hard ground do you realize that
you have seriously misjudged the exact location of the
horse, Roll one die and deduct the number rolled from
your STAMINA. Shocked by your sudden arrival from
the sky, the horse bolts, leaving you in a cloud of dust
Coughing, you get up and limp out of the alley. You
force your aching legs along a wide street, lined on
both sides by crumbling terraced houses. A door to one
of these jerks open, and an emaciated old man pops his
head out. ‘Psst. Oi, you! Sanctuary. [ll hide you for a
Gold Piece.’

204-205

Looking ahead you can see that the street ends in a
large, packed square. Will you accept the offer of refuge
(turn to 344) or ignore the beggar and head towards
the busy square (tun to 225)?

204
Was it luck or fate that guided you to that vita! page in
Hegmar’s Sanctum? Whatever the answer, you thank
Hegmar (wherever he may be) for his warning; then
you take down one of the flaming torches that are fixed
to the wall and use it to set the nascent Mandrake
alight. A revolting smell fills the air as the pod shrivels
and sizzles to its doom. You may restore 1 LUCK point
for your narrow escape. There is nothing else to be
done here, so return to 2§§ and choose an option you

have not picked before.

205
You step forward and declare, We are at peace with
the other nations of the Old World. Relations are good,
trade is mutually beneficial, we learn much from one
another. There is no place for such primitive ideas. In
war nobody wins, but you don’t care about the blood-
shed as long as your malice is satisfied.’

The Ranter’s surprise at being challenged turns to dis-
gust. ‘So ... a Brice-lover, eh? Or maybe you're one of
them. We don’t need foreigners coming into our cities
telling us how to live our lives, do we, boys?’

You notice four thugs standing near you. Though
dressed in rags, they are clearly agitators. They draw

206-207

their swords and come at you. Simultaneously, their
leader spurs the crowd into a frenzy of hatred, and a
huge brawl breaks out. Because of the crowded condi-
tions, the agitators have to fight you one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
First AGITATOR 7 4
Second AGITATOR 8 7
Third AGITATOR 6 6
Fourth AGITATOR 5 5

If you defeat them all, turn to 370.

206
Trying not to think about the possible consequences,
you sprint towards the gaping cavemouth — and run
slap bang into the hulking body of a Mountain Ogre!

MOUNTAIN OGRE SKILL 9 STAMINA 11

If you win, you see that the cave is in fact the entrance
to a pitch-black tunnel which leads deep into the moun-
tains. You really do need a lantern to go any further
If you enter the tunnel with a lantern, cross one skin of
oil off your Adventure Sheet and turn to 240. If you are
foolish enough to enter the tunnel without a lantern,
turn to 369. If you would rather go back outside and
take your chances with the Ores, turn to 35.

207
Shaking off Ennian’s mob, you come to the ten-metre-
high wall. If you have a rope and grapple, you may use
it to scale the wall (tum to 300). Once on the other
side, you will be able to tug the rope free quite easily. If
208-209

you do not have a rope, you will have to head for the
South Gate after all (turn to 184).

208

The night passes with unbearable slowness and, thanks
to your jailer’s grog-drenched snores, you don’t get a
minute’s sleep. At dawn, four city guards strip you of
all your belongings, then escort you to a large, metal-
walled wagon. Along with an assortment of rogues,
you are then driven to the city dungeon. In this laby-
rinth of dank and murky chambers you are chained to
a stone post and left to brood among a multitude of
miserable forgotten souls. You fear that you will never
see the light of day again, Even if you do, it will be far
too late for you to help the people of Kamstein.

209
No one in any of the inns or taverns you call at knows
anything about this ‘man of numbers’, However, in the
last place you enter, you may buy any number of
Provisions at a cost of 2 Gold Pieces per meal, Where
will you ask about the ‘man of numbers’ next: in the
stores (turn to 391) or the square (turn to 27)?

2IG—212

2EO
Roll four dice and add up the numbers rolled. If the
total is equal to or less than your current STAMINA
score, turn to 29. If the total is higher than your current
STAMINA score, turn to 385.

211
No sooner do you pick the object up when its sides
flick open: vicious blades, piercing spikes and slicing
razors spring out in all directions. Test your Luck. If you
are Lucky, you drop the sphere before it can injure you.
If you are Unlucky, roll one die to see how many of the
device's deadly projections injure you. For each injury
sustained, roll another die and lose that many STAMINA
points,

I€ you are still alive, you may go either down the
manhole (turn to 375) or along the street (turn to 22).

212
All the buildings of Cumbleside are in a poor state,
their human occupants long gone, driven away by the
encroaching evil of the mountains. You can’t help but
shiver as you walk through the dark, neglected streets.
And your imagination seems to be playing tricks on
you, because you keep seeing things. One minute it's a
pair of mysterious eyes, the next it’s a fleeting shadow.
lf the creatures were real, they would have no reason
not to attack you. Unless they were waiting for some-
thing —

‘Aiiiieeeeeeee!!!’ A Shadow Warrior springs out of the
shadows in front of you. Will you stand and fight (turn

213-214

to 311) or run back to the possible safety of the tower
(turn to 141)?

213

Looking over the front line, you can see that six
Haggwort are bringing up the rear with some sort of
living device; it looks like a twitching, black tree-trunk
~ possibly a battering ram, You turn to ask Wulf if he
knows what the thing is — and see to your horror that
he is on the brink of death. The Haggwort are concen-
trating all their efforts against him, and he cannot bring
his heavy longsword to bear in time to fend off their
many blows, Mindful of the looming Haggwort device,
will you:

Use this opportunity to flee? Turn to 25

Go in search of the witch? Turn to 142

Try to save your friend’s |ife? Turn to 285
214

You say to the clown, ‘Although I don’t have much
experience as a performer, I'm willing to learn. I'll have
a go at anything once.’

The clown beams, her eyes displaying malicious glee.
‘Will you, indeed?’ Then she breaks off, and everyone
gathers around while she goes to fetch some props

She places the head of a pantomime horse over your
head; you can hardly see a thing through the holes cut
‘x it. Then she puts three juggling balls in your hand
and tells you to juggle with them. You have only just
started when she grabs hold of you and starts spinning
215-216

you around. As she does so, someone kicks you in the
legs. Despite this obvious attempt to humiliate you,
you must not drop a single ball. Test your Skill, If you
succeed, turn to 77, If you fail, turn to 67,

215
Your mind races as you study the dead man’s map.
With a degree of common sense, you should be able to
work out where Voivod is right now. Once you have
done so, you will have to convert the place-name into
numbers. If you know how to do this, get started
straight away. When you think you have found the
number, turn to it. If the entry you turn to does not
make sense, you have chosen wrongly. If the entry
does make sense, carry on with the adventure. Because
Voivod is still making his initial preparations, you will
have time to visit two places. If the first place you turn
to happens to be the right one, you reach Voivod early
(note this on your Adventure Sheet). If neither of the
entries you turn to makes sense, or if you just don’t
know how to find Voivod in the first place, turn to
229.
216

For a moment all is quiet, but the lull proves deceptive
By chance a guard catches sight of you and raises the
alarm once more. After yet another sprint, you unwit-
tingly enter a cul-de-sac. Ahead of you, bordered by a
low wall, are the green and pleasant grounds of a small
temple. To your left is the entrance to a narrow alley-
way; this dingy path, lined on either side by lofty walls,
heads in the general direction of the city’s East Gate.

217-219

Will you enter the temple grounds (turn to 164) or the
pathway (tum to 196)?

217
The murky, cramped corridor twists and turns for quite
some way, before ending at a stout dungeon door.
From behind this heavy portal comes the sound of
hissing! If you wish to open the door, turn to 368. If
not, you must return to the junction and go either to
the left, out of the caves (turn to 80), to the right (burn
to 139), or straight on (turn to 296).

218
Seeing you start to run, the shaman hurries forward and
rips the pack from your back. She opens it and scatters
your belongings all over the ground. You rush angrily
towards her, but she flees. You won't have time to
chase her, nor will you have time to recover all your
things before your escape attempt is thwarted. You
may recover any five items (in addition to any armour
you are already wearing). All your Provisions count as
one item, as do all your Gold Pieces. Once you have
chosen which five things you want to keep, cross all
the others off your Adventure Sheet. Worried that you
may nok escape, you waste no more time and start
Tunning. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, tum to 350,
but if you are Unlucky, turn to 119.

219
Hands flying in all directions, Zekareh, the beggar-
prophet, proclaims the Doom of Titan: ‘Woe is me, the
end of the world is nigh. The very earth itself is dying,

220—221

poisoned by the buried canker within, whose release is
nigh. For when the five free the one, the very air itself
shall vent decay and the dead shall walk Only the
Spear and the defender of the meek can save us’

You find all these profound ramblings a little confusing
and repetitive, so you move on. As you go, Zekareh’s
eye stares at you. If you have not already done so, will
you now approach the young woman (turn to 289) or
the man in black (turn to 137)?

220

‘My, my, Such a fine garment. It should make my job
all the easier,’ laughs the robber as he snatches the
cloak from you. He puts it on and becomes all but
invisible in the shady clearing. You curse your own
stupidity, as his voice starts to come at you from all
directions: ‘Begone, you miserable coward, before I lose
my patience!’ Try as you may, you cannot see your evil
opponent, so you hurry out of the glade, away from
the Wizard’s Well and the highwayman’s taunting. If
you wish to continue northwards in search of the ‘dead’
hermit, turn to 349. If you feel that you have wasted
too much time already and would be better off heading
back south, turn to 44

221
The Haggwort are blocking the stairway, so you will
have to leap through the open window. A thirty-metre
drop awaits you on the other side, but it is either that
or certain death. If you are having second thoughts and
would rather risk combat, tum to 305. Otherwise, Test

222-223

your Luck and Test your Skill. If you fail either test, you
plummet to your death. If you pass both tests, however,
you miraculously survive, with only a loss of 2 sTAM-
INA points,

Rushing through the town, you see that the Haggwort
are laying it to waste and butchering those of its
inhabitants who have not already fled. You too escape
along the road leading south. Turn to 25.

222
‘What! I? A cheat? How dare yout!’ Despite the pain
caused by your tight grip on his puny wrist, Bartolph is
still able to put on a show of offended outrage that
seems a little too well practised. As far as the onlookers
can tell, you lost fair and square. When you pick up the
die and roll 1 seven times in a row, however, they make
it quite clear that they like cheats even less than they
like bad losers. They grab Bartolph and prepare to drag
him inte the back yard. Before the rogue disappears
altogether, you search him for any gold which you
have already lost to him; in addition you take 6 Gold
Pieces belonging to him. Satisfied that justice is about
to be done, you close your ears to Bartolph’s whining
and leave the tavern, taking his die with you. Add the
Gold Pieces and the Loaded Die to your Adventure
Sheet, and turn to 30

223
As the defeated Shadow Warrior falls, groaning in an
untidy heap, you reach forward and snatch its weird
mask away from its face. The Warrior's scream slices
224-225

through the air; its body dissolves in a whirlwind of
crimson energy, which spins and spins until it burns out
and simply fades away. Though not destroyed, the
Shadow Warrior will not be seen again for a hundred
years, Note on your Adventure Sheet which Warrior you
have just banished; you will not have to face this
Warrior again. If you are told that you will have to,
ignore the instructions — you face nothing. If in future
you roll this Warrior when you roll to see which of the
five you must face, roll again until you get a different
one. Now continue your adventure.

224
Smegg leads you away from the bright chamber and
takes you down many a cramped and winding pas-
sageway. A short while later, you come to a small cave
with a hole in the floor. ‘Smeggies pit,’ declares Smegg
as he takes the stout rope from his shoulder. He ties a
loop round his waist and then offers you the other end
‘Pul rope round you, Smegg lower you down. Tunnel
at bottom. Goes under Elfies.’ If you want to continue
along ‘Smeggies route’, turn to 313. If, however, the
thought of climbing down a shaft at Smegg’s mercy
gives you second thoughts, turn to §0.

225
You have just entered one of Royal Lendle’s major
tourist attractions, Masonic Square. Filled with traders’
and merchants’ stalls, the major feature of its buildings
is their fine stonework and the statues depicting the life
of Orjan the Builder. Some say that the measurements,
angles and proportions of the square hold some deep

226

mystical significance. You, however, are more con-
cerned with the number of city guards watching all the
exits leading from it. At the moment they are not
looking for you, but they soon will be, once those
guards dogging your footsteps arrive. You need a
diversion. If chaos were to reign — however briefly —
over the hundreds of people crammed into the square,
you would have no trouble slipping away. There is
only one thing that could possibly cause such an uproar:
gold. If you have any Gold Pieces, decide how many
you wish to throw, then deduct them from your Adzen-
fure Sheet. Then roll one die. If the number rolled is
higher than the number of Gold Pieces you have
thrown, turn to 389; if the number rolled is equal to or
lower than the number of Gold Pieces you have thrown,
turn to §7. If you don’t have any Gold, or choose not
to waste any, you must surrender to the guards (turn to

199).

226
Obeying your finely honed instincts, you drop to the
ground and roll forward just as a cloud of knock-out
gas floats through the air to where you were standing.
Made wary by this trap, you leave the place and make
your way around more stealthily: walking on rooftops,
sneaking through backyards, never once entering a
place by obvious means. In doing so, you come to learn
that the whole town is just one big maze of traps. It is a
miracle that you have got this far without further
mishap. You decide not to push your luck too far and
make your way out of tawn, If you want to head south,
turn to 7§. If you would rather skart back round the
227—228

town and investigate the tower you saw earlier, tum
to 14.

227

With only a brief interval for some much-needed sleep
(restore 2 STAMINA points), you continue westwards
until you come to the Burning Balrog Inn. The place is
empty but for the landlord and three Femphrey war-
riors, veterans of the War of the Four Kingdoms. Judg-
ing by the noise they are making, the veterans have
already had too much to drink. And if this isn’t bad
enough, they are sitting with a Man-Orc assassin who,
seeing you, shouts, ‘I fawt I cud smell sumfink. It’s a Gal-
lantreean.’

One of the veterans drawls, ‘Pah, lezz kick the backstab-

bin’ worm outta here.’

The oldest of the veterans stares at you intently, then
growls, ‘It is you! We fought in the Battle of Mallagash,
and you gave me this!’ He lifts up his left arm; in place
of his hand is a metal hook. Now you remember. he
was a sergeant-at-arms who would have killed you, but
for the severe wound you inflicted on him. Stirred by
the troublesome Man-Orc, the veterans are growing
angrier by the second. Will you ignore them and go to
the bar (turn to 3), ask the veterans why they are witha
Man-Orc (tum to 287), or attack the assassin, before he
goads the veterans on to violence (turn to 265)?

228
Not a single one of the circus folk hears or sees you as
you imitate a desert lizard and wriggle towards them.

229

Predictably, it is the clown who is doing most of the
talking. ‘... as before, but not as sloppily as at Gornt.
This time, we'll control the intake by keeping the circus
out of town. Though Gort will ultimately be a success,
it was messy. The operation must be carried out with
greater stealth, so that we can attain the monthly target
figure through careful management rather than by
hurried processing.’

You're not at all sure what this all means, and you don’t
receive any enlightenment when the conversation
moves on to normal circus business. You sneak away to
reconsider your options. Return to 255 and choose an
option you have not selected already.

229
Your journey has taken too long. Perhaps you failed to
take the threat of Voivod seriously enough, but the
Warlord is no paltry dictator. He has already raised an
army, ten thousand strong, of shambling Undead and,
through his Shadow Warrior lieutenants, is mastermind-
ing an invasion of the living world. The ground writhes

230-232

beneath your feet as the Earth-mother and the Horned
God realize that all is lost.

230
If you have a Fire-cracker, turn to 317. If you have a
skin of oil (the lantern is not needed), turn to 170. (If
you have both, you may choose either.) If you have
neither, you will have to flee: turn to 356.

231

The further you go into the town, the more you see of
its madness. Brother fighting brother, the town militia
divided, houses being burned down and worse besides.
Yet while half of the people seem frightened, the others
seem relaxed; they smile while they fight and try to
persuade their more worried opponents that they are
being foolish. You decide it would be best to remain
unseen, so you move about using whatever cover is
available. It is while you are tiptoeing between buildings
that a hand clamps over your mouth and an arm pulls
you back into an alley. A woman's voice whispers,
‘Hush, be still’ If you do as the woman commands, turn
to 158. If you strike out at her, turn to 129.

232
Descending a long, wide staircase, you come to a
crossroads. A strange fire burns you (deduct 3 points
from your sTAMINA). Will you go:

North? Turn to 169
South? Turn to 187
East? Turn to 122
West? Turn to 144
233-234

233

Quinsberry Woad snecrs vindictively as his men strip
you of practically all your belongings ‘Someone with
your particular talents should have no trouble in recoup-
ing his losses. Failing gainful employment, you can
always fall back on robbing old women.’ He allows
himself a petty chuckle before leading his men away
with your things. ‘Dan’t forget” he calls, ‘seven Gays!’

This is a moxt annoying and anfortunate start to your
édventure. You can enly hope that you will not let the
people of Karnstein down any further. With nothing
else to do, you make your way out of the city. Cross
off everything except your weapon fram your Ardven-
ture Sheet, and turn to 145.

234
You try to throw yourself aside, but too late! The
moment your foot touches the disc, there is an im-
plosion of Darklight.

235

A moment later, when you regain consciousness, you
feel nauseous but seem to be still in one piece (deduct :
point from your STAMINA). However, the mystic snare
has made some of your equipment disappear! Erase any
two items of equipment from your Adventure Sheet. You
may choose which items to cross off, but all your

Provisions count as one item, as do all your Gold
Pieces.

You no longer feel that crossing the moors is a gocd
idea: there are too many dangers. If you want to head
for the town, turn to 367. If you would rather go and
investigate the strange tower, tum to r42.

235
Casting your doubts aside, you tuck into the meal ~—
and soon succumb to the sleeping draught which has
been sprinkled all over your food. Turn to 186

236-237

236
‘What?’ he gasps. ‘Cleanliness? In Lendle? There’s no
such thing.’ He swiftly pulls back a curtain, separating
the parlour from his living quarters, and calls, ‘Bransellt
In response, his pet appears: a ferocious wolf-sized rat!
Before you know it, the rodent is upon you, its grasping
talons clawing at your skin.

BRANSELL SKILL 6

If you win, as you leave the parlour you grab 4 Gold
Pieces from Roggmondo’s till and leave the tattooist to
weep over the carcass of his fallen guard-rat. Out in the
street, you see a large crowd seething ahead of you,
and an angry guard patrol behind. Turn to 118.

STAMINA 9

237
You step up to the statue and pour the precious drops

between its petrified lips. In moments, the old scholar is
flesh again. ‘It cannot be . . . but it is!’ he quavers. Then
he pushes past you and makes his way out of the cave
His fear of being caught again is stronger than his
gratitude. But his shouts have already drawn unwanted

238-239

attention. Something is moving in the shadows behind
the six remaining statues. If you have a mirror, turn to
322. If you haven't, Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 21; but if you are Unlucky, turn to 34

238

To your amazement, you land squarely on the horse’s
back. However, the impact proves to be quite painful
(deduct 1 point from your sTAMINA). Up on the roof,
the city guards watch dumbfounded as you urge the
horse out of the alley and away. You stop for nothing,
speeding through crowded squares and alleyways to-
wards the city’s North Gate. There, you dismount and
send the horse home with a good slap. You cannot
Tesist a quiet chuckle as you walk past the gate wardens
who, ignorant of your misdemeanours, merely stand by
as you exit the city. Turn to 145,

239
You unhook the lanterns and spill oil on the seats, over
the canvas, down the ropes, everywhere. Then you
fling the flaming lanterns on to the ground and soon
the whole tent is aflame. You hurry outside and almost
run into the circus folk, standing before you, Mandrakes
hissing their hatred, For a moment you think you are
done for, but no. The Mandrakes merely stand their
ground. Then you notice the nervous look on the
clown’s face. Her eyes glance over your shoulder, look-
ing behind you at the tent, at the fire, That’s it — the
Mandrakes’ one weakness must be frre! Will you use
this special knowledge to attack the Mandrakes (turn to
17) or use the fire as a diversion and flee (turn to 104)?
240-241

240
You follow endless kilometres of underground passages,
your intemal sense of direction ensuring that you are
always heading roughly southwards. The corridor you
are currently following seems to end in a room with
phosphorescent walls. Facing you, at the far end of this
room, is an open arch, beyond which is a descending
staircase. A strange-shaped metal plate hangs over the
archway. You are still approaching the room when you
see something stir in the darkness on the very threshold
of the chamber. In a high voice, the silhouette calls out,
‘Halt! Me Smegg, Guardian of the Gate.’ As you draw
closer to the figure, you see that it is a small humanoid,
clad in the skin of his latest conquest — a giant spider!
Suppressing your revulsion, will you do as Smegg
commands and stay where you are (turn to 95), or do
you attack him (turn to 50)?

241

Years of separation have made your partnership with
your old friend a little rusty; you move too slowly to
dodge the deadly sharp machete which sinks into your
shoulder (deduct 3 points from your sTAMINA). If you
are still alive, you straighten up as Villgran pulls the
weapon out and throws it aside. Thanking the old man,
you turn to see Wulf kill the very Haggwort who just
threw the machete at you. Will you:

Rush over to the barricade? Turn to 298
Go to confront the witch? Turn to 142
Flee from Hustings before worse

befalls you? Turn to 25
242-244 245

2.42 of Orcish snoring. Restore 1 point of tuck for your
It is difficult, but not impossible, to defend yourself clever planning, Rummaging through the Ores’ belong-
from the monster while unbuckling the straps which ings, you find a sword and two (barely edible) meals of
bind you to the table. However, you must subtract Provisions, which you may take, Then you flee along a
1 point from your Attack Strength for the first five rugged mountain track. Test your Luck, If you are Lucky,
rounds of combat — the time it takes you to free turn to 350. If you are Unlucky, turn to E19.

yourself, Kauderwelsch stands back, cackling insanely.

KAUDERWELSCH MONSTER
SKILL 8 STAMINA 14

If you win, turn to 87. °

243
Your hasty search turns up 1 Gold Piece on the corpse
of one of the thugs — the measly sum Bartolph paid
them to kill you! You may take this coin in the brief
second that passes before the guards appear and throw
a weighted net at you. You will have to leap aside

before you are snared like a cornered rat, Test your Skill a)
if you succeed, you dodge the net and may run up the ___ This Shadow Warrior carries a number of deadly throw-

street (turn to 360) or further down the alley (turn to ing stars which are cast in a magical substance called

262). If you fail, you are entangled and captured (turn Cruel-metal. Any wounds caused by the metal keep

to 199). growing — tearing and splitting the body until the

victim suffers a slow and painful death. At the start of

244 your battle, the Warrior will have time to spin one such

While Bonesquagg Grogmaker’s not looking, you take missile in your direction. Test your Skill. If you succeed,

a vial of the potent draught and pour it into the you dodge the star and begin combat as normal; but if

bubbling cauldron of cockroach and rat-droppings stew! you fail, the star embeds itself deep within your body,
Knowing humans’ fussy tastes, none of the Orcs is and you die in seconds.

suspicious when you politely decline a bowl of the Fifth SHADOW WARRIOR sxittg sTAMINAG

stuff, and it only takes ten minutes for the draught to
do its work. Soon the whole area echoes to the rumble If you defeat the Warrior, turn to 335.
246-248

246
Roll one die: the number you roll tells you the number
of attempts you may make to cut the ropes before the
Dark Elves will reach you. You must roll 9 or above
with two dice, in order to succeed. If you don’t have a
weapon, you must subtract i from your rolls. If you
succeed in cutting the ropes inside the allotted number
of tries, tum to 261. If you don’t manage it, turn to

309.

247

A few hours pass; you find yourself in a wide, open
field when the overcast sky breaks to the sound of
thunder and is torn apart by jagged lightning. Soon
you are drenched in torrents of rain. In the near distance,
to your right, is a copse which may offer some shelter.
Straight ahead are more open fields. You are just won-
dering which would be the best route to follow when
the earth starts to shake. The wet grass ahead of you
bulges upwards, forming a mound ~ and the side of the
mound contorts into a face! An impossibly wide mouth
opens and howls with deafening force. The very earth
is screaming, and its cries are accompanied by the most
violent quake yet. You will have to try very hard not
to lose your footing as you run across the slippery
grass. Test your Skill. If you succeed, turn to 88. If you
fail, turn to 378.

248
Leaving the casket where it lies, you are about to depart
when you hear the sound of horses’ hoofs. Could it be?
Your heart pounds as you move over to the door. It is!

-

249

The Shadow Warriors are storming across the fields.
Will you stay inside the cave in the hope that they'll
ride past (turn to 111), or make a run for it, lest they
trap you here (turn to 37)?

249
You stand little chance of beating your omnipotent foe
— but you must do your best, for the sake of the world.
Each time you lose an Attack Round of combat, any
STAMINA points you lose must be added to Voivod’'s
current total — he thrives on your death!

VOIVOD SKILL 10 STAMINA i0

If you win, tum to 303.
250-251

250

Using almost all your remaining reserves of energy,
you dive to one side, just as the Slygore drops down
on the stone where, moments earlier, you lay. Pressed
hard against the curved sewer-wall and a mere metre
away from the creature, you ignore the pain and stagger
to your feet. But your fading vision is filled with
images of the Slygore rising. You must flee, Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 180; if you are Unlucky,
turn to 365.

251

‘Very persuasive,’ you say mockingly, ‘but your new
regime will be one of death, Take a look at yourself. By
your own admission, you should be mere ashes in a
grave — but no: the earth has spat you out, And
although you cling desperately to this “life”, it torments
you. Your body is stretched beyond its limits. Your
Wamphyri existence is a mockery of life.’

With each passing word, Urtha grows more and more
enraged until — ‘Enough!’ she cries. ‘I will show you
what it is to be immortal. Name your challenge.’ Will
you:

252-253
Put her to the stake? Turn to 201
Tell her to free the Haggwort? Turn to 331

Have her submit to the time-honoured method
of destroying Undead: decapitation? Turn to 161

252
Ennian fights like a crazed animal, and his blood, which
is green, is enough to distract you from the business in
hand. But you must finish the Burgomeister before his

reinforcements arrive
ENNIAN SKILL 9 STAMINA 7

If you defeat him in five rounds or fewer, turn to 84. But
if Ennian is alive after five Attack Rounds, turn to 107.

253
Descending a long, wide staircase, you come to a
crossroads, Will you go:

North? Turn to 266
South? Tum to 291
East? Tum to 232

West? Tum to 144
254

254

You have chosen wrongly. A mystic force shoots pain-
fully up your arm and stuns you (deduct 2 points from
your STAMINA). The force also alerts those who dwell
within the temple Three sickle-wielding Geomancers
arrive and drag you into the temple’s anteroom, beyond
which no outsider may go. They hold you there until
their master, the Arch-druid, appears. Like them, he is
clad in robes of shimmering white, but is more aged
and splendid. He declares through his massive silver
beard, “Though your coming has been foretold, you
have trespassed on forbidden lawns. You must accept
the Challenge of the wise Earth-mother, The reward is
freedom, the penalty is death’ Before you know it, the
three Geomancers force you to your knees and interlock
their sickle blades to form a razor-sharp triangle around
your neck. The aged master continues, ‘I call up the
Challenge of the Earth-mother. On your head be under-
standing. Equal length between, yet unequal in length.
What are we, the equinox or the solstice?’ If you think
the answer to his conundrum is ‘the equinox’, turn to
380; if you think the correct answer is ‘the solstice’,
turn to 332

255-256

255
As all the performers are tied up at the campfire meet-

ing, now seems like a good time to investigate the
circus. Will you:

Search the clown’s wagon? Tur to 333
Search the big top? Turn to 179
Search the Hall of Dreams wagon? Turn to 387

Try and hear what's being said around the
campfire? Turn to 302
Rush all nine of them in,a surprise attack? Turn to 45

256

Realizing that there is nothing to be gained by lying,
you come clean and tell the Orcs something of your
mission. ‘Hah! See!’ spits Uggamonggo at his shaman
‘Spy, my gul! It’s a mercenree, a good solid fighter like
wot we are, Free the mercenree!’ The Orcs release you,
while the shaman hobbles off in disgrace, having lost
another round in the continuing power struggle with
her own leader. Uggamonggo suddenly takes 5 Gold
Pieces out of a pouch hanging at his waist and gives
them to you. ‘We cud do wiv someone like yoo in our
battle. This iz yer payment, mercenree.’ You are just
putting the gold away — as refusing the offer would
mean certain death — when a volley of arrow-fire comes
flying through the air. Uggamonggo shouts, ‘It’s a
surprise attack!’ Indeed, you see the Orcs of the Big
Boulder charging the encampment, Will you use the
confusion to try and slip away (turn to 218), or honour
your — albeit forced ~ contract and stand your ground
alongside Uggamonggo (turn to 42)?

257-259

257
Only the foolhardy peer into an Orb of Mind-snaring.
You have lost your will to the crystal, where it will stay
until Hegmar returns to free it ... Unfortunately the
magician is dead, so you will be lost in this limbo for all
eternity,

258

The door refuses to open, but your sattling of the
handle has alerted someone on the other side, The
hissing noise stops abruptly and a weary, aged voice
calls out, ‘Who's there? If you've come to torment me
again, begone. Is it not enough to keep me locked up
all these years? If you really mean to free me, find the
Copper Key. And a word of advice: go wherever you
think she is.’ You raise your voice, trying to press the
inmate for more information, but your questions are
met with silence. There’s nothing left for you to do but
go back to the junction. There, will you now go
straight on (turn to 296), to the right (turn to 139), or
to the left, out of the caves, (turn to 80)?

259
This Shadow Warrior is a master swordsman, wielding
with consummate ease a pair of razor-edged broad-
swords, one in each hand. Each time you Jose an Attack
Round against this foe, you must deduct 4 points from
your STAMINA instead of the usual 2. Armour or Testing
your Luck may not be used to reduce this damage

Third SHADOW WARRIOR skit_9 sTAMINAQ
If you defeat the Warrior, turn to 335
260-263

260

The Chameleon Cloak works like a dream: the Hagg-
wort does not see you as you slip past it and press on
along the road. Further on, you remove the cloak and
study your surroundings. The moors look too danger-
ous, so you decide to keep to the road, Will you now
go to the town (tum to 367) or towards the strange
tower (turn to 142)?

261
There is a loud twanging sound as the ropes snap, The
bridge swings down into the chasm, and the Dark Elves
fall, screaming, to their doom. Your joy fades, however,
when you hear more cultists arriving, on your side of
the chasm! Quickly, will you go to the left (turn to 32)
or to the right (turn to 278)?

262

After a few promising turns, the alley comes to a dead
end. The only way out is back towards the street; but
even now you can see a city guard coming towards
you from that direction. You are bracing yourself for
combat when you hear a metallic clang; you have
stepped on a manhole cover. Will you lift the cover and
descend into the city sewers (tum to 375), or stand
your ground and face the solitary city guard (turn to
46)?

263
Your heroic action stops the tolling of the Iron Bell —
the dead shall not walk just yet. But as long as Voivod
exists, the evils will continue to multiply; it is the task

264—266

of such objects as the Iron Bell to summon and guide
these evils; turn to 73.

264

You have chosen correctly: the moon reflects the light
of the sun and it obscures the sun in an eclipse; the sun
cannot eclipse the moon and its light is its own. As the
gates open before you, however, you cannot help but
sense that you have lost something in your success.
Hurriedly you make your way round to the back of the
temple and soon you come to another gate, leading out
of the grounds. You open it and enter a narrow street.
Will you now go to the left (turn to 30x) or to the right
(turn to 118)?

265

You have had enough of the Ore’s insults, and you
decide to teach him a lesson — but all the veterans get
up and stand in your way; even the landlord hovering
in the background, ready to hit you from behind. The
assassin just laughs, “Typicull Gallantree scum.’ Will
you press on with your attack (turn to 132), back down
and ask the men why they're spending their time with
such a foul creature (turn to 287), or turn your back on
them and buy yourself a drink (turn to 3)?

266
An eldritch fire courses through your veins and destroys
you in a blaze of agony ... or so it seems, for your
body lies sleeping at the foot of the wide staircase. You
came down the steps just the once, before being put to
sleep by the frue Guardian of the Gate. Your repeated
267-269

descent, since then, has all been part of a never-ending
nightmare from which you shall never escape.

267
Though you are fit to drop with tiredness, you persist
in your journey southwards. It is mid-afternoon when
you first spy an oddly shaped hill to the east. As you
look at the hill, you start to feel dizzy. If you have
a Green Leaf Brooch, turn to go. If you do not, turn

to 399

268

Just as you thought — there is more Mandrake magic at
work here! Looking into the mirror, you can see that
the tent is plastered with bizarre messages, which all
add up to some form of mind control! Though your
eyes don’t see the words, your mind does — and the
clash is what is causing your headache. This is magic at
its most loathsome! If you want to, you may use the
lanterns hanging on the main pole to set fire to the tent
and all its evil messages (turn to 239). Otherwise, there
is nothing more you can do here; retum to 255 and
choose an option you have not picked before.

269

‘So, yoo don’t wanna tell uzz, eh?’ Uggamonggo nods
and the grinning Orc torturer turns the handle of the
stretch rack. The frame extends, pulling on your bones,
and rows of little spikes dig into your flesh (deduct 2
points from your sTAMINA), Uggamonggo shouts,
‘Now, are yoo gonna talk (turn to 198), or am ! gonna
nave ta keep dis up (turn to 146)”
270-272

270
The tattooist’s expression betrays a mixture of puzzle-
ment and vexation. Well, what are you doing in here,
then?’ he asks angrily. Will you tell him that you are
hiding from Woad’s men (tum to 396) or that you are
a city hygiene inspector who has come to check on the
cleanliness of his tattoo parlour (turn to 236)?

271

The more closely you inspect the encampment, the
more horrifying the situation becomes. Guignol told
you that he was alone: he lied. Searching through the
tents, you find the belongings of seven other people —
his colleagues; and then you find their bodies, tossed
into a hastily dug trench. Guignol must have murdered
each and every one of them. Surely, this could not have
been the result of an academic dispute, however heated!
If you wish, you may take a sword that you find in one
of the tents. Then roll four dice and add together the
numbers rolled. If the total is equal to or lower than
your current STAMINA score, you may either leave the
dig (turn to 282) or try to destroy the skeleton (turn
to 294). But if the total is higher than your current
STAMINA score, turn to 385.

272
You have wasted much precious time in Royal Lendle,
but the South Gate is in sight at last. lt is a massive,
counterbalanced, two-door structure made of heavily
reinforced steel, and is set in the awesome city wall
which is so thick as to have tunnels and defensive posts
built into it. There is not much traffic passing through

273

the exit and the gate wardens there are concerned with
searching a trader's caravan, so no one notices when
you are pulled into a derelict shack by a figure, clad
head to foot in black robes. Though he is veiled, you
recognize the swarthy face of a Man-Orc, He wields an
evil-looking blade with manic ferocity, and hisses with
hatred: ‘Die, fool. Neither you nor your peasant friends
shall reach Karstein alive. My masters’ will be done!’
Then he is upon you,

MAN-ORC ASSASSIN SKILL 8 STAMINA 8&

If you win without losing any sTAMINA points, turn to
40; if you win but have been wounded, turn to 4.

273
The corridor is narrow and dark, so dark that it is only
luck that stops you from putting a foot out over a
bottomless chasm, The chasm is too wide to jump
across. If you have a rope and grapple, turn to 355. If
you haven't, turn to 202.

274-276

274
The struggle over, you search the bady of your fallen
adversary and find 2 Gold Pieces and Provisions enough
for 1 meal. Now you have time either to drink from the
Wizard’s Well (tum to 58), continue northwards in
search of the ‘dead’ hermit (turn to 349), or leave the
area altogether and head back south (turn to 44).

275 .
You bowl the glowing crystal along the ground so that
it comes to a stop right in the middle of the Haggwort
— but they have no minds of their own to lose! One of
the Haggwort picks up the sphere and tosses it aside
into the quicksand (cross it off your Adventure Sheet).
Now will you:

Attack the Haggwort in the hope of

destroying their device? Turn to 379
Wait to see what their device does next? Tum to 153
Go and find the witch? Turn to 142
Leave the town while you still can? Turn to 25

276

You wet the petrified lips of the young scholar with the
antidote, and in less than a minute he is moving again
‘Thank the gods!’ he cries. Then he looks nervously
around the room and flees into the darkness fearing
another meeting with the Gorgon. But his shouted
exclamation has already drawn unwanted attention
There’s a scuffling in the shadows behind the six remain-
ing statues. If you have a mirror, turn to 322; if not,
Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 21. But if you
are Unlucky, turn to 34.

277

277

just as you pass through the door, a full chamber pot
falls from above, narrowly missing you, and lands with
a thud, spilling its stinking contents all over the carpet.
You have entered a cosy little room, occupied by a nice
old granny who has just risen to her feet and started to
scream, ‘Burglars! Thieves! Help, help!’ The city guards
will be only too quick to hear her cries. You may take
one of two exits from the room: a closed door leading
to the rear of the building (turn to 328), or a narrow
flight of stairs, which goes up to the first floor (turn to
292),

278—280

278
Entering a dark passageway, you run round a corner,
then along a seemingly interminable corridor. At first
you think that your eyes are playing tricks on you, but
no. There is daylight at the end of the tunnel! However,
a Dark EIf cultist stands guard,

DARK ELF CULTIST SKILL 7 STAMINA 10

{f you win, turn to 316

ai
One of the Warriors thrusts a sharp blade into your leg
while carefully watching your reaction. Despite the
agony caused by the wounding, you don’t even bat an
eyelid. Deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA It is with
unbelievable relief that you see the Warriors turn and
head back to the south, out of the pass. Turn to 102

280

Gritting your teeth, you raise your weapon and let it
fall, You stumble backwards, clutching your wiist in
agony. Deduct 4 points from your sTAMINA and
point from both your Initial sKILL score and your
current SKILL score Tearing a strip of cloth from your
tunic, you manage to stanch the wound. Wait, what's
that skittering sound? You look down on the floor and
see your severed hand, moving on its fingertips, like a
big spider! It tenses so that it can spring up at you. You
will have to fight it off.

POSSESSED HAND SKILL 5 STAMINA 2
If you win, you stagger out of the Hall of Dreams.

281-282

Return to 255 and choose an option you have not
picked before.

281

You tug on the fine metal cord and hear a feeble
tinkling sound within, A minule or to passes before the
door opens. A young woman, holding a candle, silently
ushers you in, Having barred the door behind you, she
leads you up a long spiral staircase and into.a cosy
itudy. Plush furniture, bookcases and expensive ora
ments are arranged round a comforting log fire. The
lady asks: you to sit down, then fetches you a goblet of
fine wine and a tray of roasted meats and vegetables If
you are keen to tackle this hearty repast, turn to 235. If
you would rather leave it until you know a litte more
about your host, turn to gg.

282
At last ~ Kamstein! Nestling beneath the mountains of
the Witchtooth Line, the once pleasant village has been
razed to the ground. Tears fill your eyes as you walk
through streets that are littered with corpses. You must
avenge the villagers, you must stop _., Voivod! Have

283

the Shadow Warriors already found the ancient War-
lord? Despairing, you fall to your knees and beg the
people of Karnstein for forgiveness.

‘Not too late,’ gasps a voice. A man, close to death, lies
nearby, Voivod... gone... to raise army , . . from the
dead .,. take thisssss ._.’ then he is dead. A piece of
paper flaps in his hand. You take it and see that it is a
map of the local area. You must use it in some way to
find Voivod — note this paragraph number on your
Adventure Sheet, as you will have to refer to the map
again later.

Now think back over your adventure. If you have either
visited the Burning Balrog Tavern or searched for the
Hermit, turn to 388. If you have visited both these
places, turn to 229. If you have been to neither, or have
been to either or both of them but have also travelled
with the Circus of Dreams, or have been a captive of
the Ores of the Black Scorpion, turn to 215.

283
The corridor opens out into a vast natural cavern,
which is rent in half by a bottomless chasm. A slender
rope-bridge offers the only way across, Your pursuers
are more used to these caves than you are, and four of
them have almost caught up with you. If you have any’
Calthrops, you may throw a set down before you cross
the bridge. If you do so, crass the Calthrops off your
Adventure Sheet and roll one die. The number rolled
gives you the number of cultists you shake off. Those
you manage to lose in this way should come from the
284-285

bottom of the list, below. You must fight any who
continue the chase, one after the other.

SKILL STAMINA
First CULTIST Vd 7
Second CULTIST 8 5
Third CULTIST 6 6
Fourth CULTIST 9 7

If you win — or if you lose them all — burn to 343.

284
Deciding to forgo any formalities, you rap the woman's
hand. She yelps and lets go of her husband, who runs
away, terrified. Perplexed, you ask the woman what's
wrong. She answers by making claws of her hands and
attacking you.

SMILING WOMAN SKILL 7 STAMINA 9

if you win, turn to 376.

285
Possessed by a sudden rage, you charge the Haggwort
which are bent over Wulf’s helpless form, and vent
your fury. Haggwort head after Haggwort head
explodes (restore 1 LUCK point for your bravery). Then
the threat passes. Wulf clasps your forearm and forces a
grim smile. ‘Just like old times, eh?’

Beyond the barricade, the six Haggwort plunge their
device into the earth, where it starts to emit a low hum
...ahum which builds up into a deafening earthquake!
The ground splits beneath your feet, the barricade falls
apart, and bricks start to fall from nearby houses. The

286

townsfolk flee in a blind panic, the Haggwort close
behind them. If things go on as they are, the whole
town could be shaken apart. Will you:

Attack the six Haggwort so that you can
disable their device?

Wait and see what happens?

Roll an Orb of Mind-snaring — if you have

Tum to 379
Tum to 153

one — into the middle of the six? Turn to 275
Go and deal with the witch? Tum to 142
Flee Hustings altogether? Tum to 25

286

Suddenly, a grimy hand reaches out and yanks you into
an alley. There, you find yourself standing face to face
with Bartolph the gambler and two thugs, one of
whom blocks your way back to the street. The gambler
sports a number of fresh cuts and bruises, no doubt
given to him by the patrons of the First Step. ‘Care for
more sport?’ he sneers. You will have to fight all your
assailants at the same time

SKILL STAMINA
BARTOLPH 6 7
First THUG 7 6
Second THUG 5 7

If you win, you may either search the bodies of your
enemies (turn to 243), leave them, run out of the alley
and up the street before any guards, drawn by the
noise of the fight, arrive {turn to 360), or rush further
on down the alley, in the hope of finding a hiding place
(turn to 262).
287-288

287
Confused, you ask, ‘What are three reputable warriors
like yourselves doing, listening to a villainous Man-Orc
assassin?’

Your question meets with instant outrage, The fighter
in the wide-brimmed hat strides forward and shouts,
‘Are you calling my mate an Orc? That's no way to
address a Femphreyan monk.’

Monk? What is he on about? Either the veterans have
been drugged, or the-assassin is using some sort of
magical disguise The Man-Orc sniggers and says,
‘Catch. He lobs towards you the black sphere he's been
tossing in his hand. If you catch the sphere, tum to 98.
If you let it fall, turn to 326,

288
The leader, Uggamonggo, orders two of his men to
seize you. They refuse. You groan, then watch as a
scrap breaks out. Two cracked skulls later, the leader
has reasserted his authority, He tells two more of his
Orcs to seize you. There is a tense moment and a
shared intake of breath ... until the Ores step forward,
one of them sniggering wheezily. They strip you of
beth your armour and your weapon (if you have either.
cross it off your Adventure Sheet), then He you by the
wrists and ankles to a pole, which they carry over their
shoulders. Uggamonggo grunts, ‘Right, we're off to
bash the Ores ov the Big Boulder ta prove who's the
boss tribe in this place. Dunna fret, I'll keep yoo safe.
‘cuz I wanna pick yer brain about pol-it-i-kul matterz’
Then the Orcs move out. They travel incredibly fast.

289

stopping for nothing. Strange as it may seem, they are
doing you a favour, taking you over the mountains in
half the time it would have taken you alone. Sundown
comes and the Orcs stop to make camp. Uggamonggo
severs your bonds and offers you one of two chores:
you can either clean their boots (tum to 93) or help
make the evening meal (turn to 82).

289

Sadly, the well-dressed woman is the most abused of
the day’s ranters, and she has already added a few
mouldy fruit to her personal jewellery. Nevertheless
she labours on, and you discover that her cause is one
that is quite close to your own heart: ‘Nobody wants
these meddling magicians who claim to be so important
tor the defence of the world. They are too powerful.
They already possess enough force to destroy every
living creature on Titan five times over, Does anybody
ask ws whether or not we want this kind of protection?
No! It’s only a matter of time before Titan is destroyed,
either by war or by accident. Common people must
unite to bring an end to this insanity. Abolish all High
Magicks. Nowf

Just then, a whooshing sound is heard in the air, and
everyone looks up to see a vermilion fireball arcing
down through the sky towards the woman. Since you
yourself are near her, you may shield the woman by
throwing yourself into the path of the fireball. Will you
do this (turn to 342), or do you stand well back (turn
to 6)?
2GO—292

290
You must fight the horrible Crombane all at the same
time. Their mouths spit a mild acid which ruins armour.
if you are wearing armour and are hit by a Crombane
in an Attack Round, you must deduct 2 hits from the
armour’s total, instead of the normal 1. If you are not
wearing any armour, the acid does not affect you.

SKILL STAMINA
First CROMBANE 6 6
Second CROMBANE 7 6
Third CROMBANE - 6 5
Fourth CROMBANE 5 7

If you win, you may either head for the copse (tum to
63), run directly to the south, towards Hustings (tum
to 135), or go back northwestwards, to the safety of
the road (turn to 160).

291
Descending a long, wide staircase, you come to a
crossroads. Will you go:

North? Tur to 169
South? Tur to 114
East? Tur to 304
West? Turn to 266

292
The creaking wooden steps end in a low, musty bed-
room, dimly lit by the light coming from a single
window. There are no other doors leading out of the
room, so you make for the window. After an easy
climb, you find yourself standing on the flat roof of the

293-294

house, two storeys high, with a commanding view of
the area. The streets are crawling with Quinsberry’s
lackeys. Any thoughts of escape by running from roof-
top to rooftop are shattered when you see that all the
neighbouring buildings are set at a distance from the
one you are on. However, an alley runs down one side
of the house, and in this alley stands an unattended
horse. Behind you, a huffing and puffing guard has just
managed to follow you up on to the roof. You will
either have to fight this guard (tum to 392) or do
something you've always dreamed of: jump down on
to the horse’s back and ride off into the distance (turn
to 100).

293

Just inside the doorway stands a jack-in-the-box — only
this ‘jack’ is a boxing glove on the end of a spring. You
manage to duck just in time, and the glove punches a
few splinters out of the door-frame. Stepping round the
box, you search the wagon. Only two items seem
worthy of further investigation. Which will you look at
first: the safe (turn to §9) or a large book that is lying
on the clown’s desk (turn to 325)?

294
You cannot help but think that this monstrous-looking
skeleton is in some way responsible for the macabre
events which have overtaken the site. As you climb the
flimsy wooden scaffold that has been erected over the
thing, you feel instinctively drawn to its immense skull.
You lift a pick-axe, ready to smash the cranium into
tiny pieces. Roll four dice and add the numbers together,
295-296

If the total of the four dice is equal to or less than your
current STAMINA score, turn to 329. If the total is
higher than your current STAMINA score, turn to 385.

295
The long and winding staircase brings you to the cult’s

innermost sanctum: the secret chamber where the cruel
and misguided Dark Elves keep their ‘god’ a prisoner!
Across the room is another staircase, leading upwards
this time. But before this exit is a treasure mound, and
on this mound lies something totally beyond the range
of your experience. It looks like a cross between a
cobra, a goat and a man, and it has six sword-wielding
arms. Fortunately the creature is asleep at the moment,
and it is bound to the wall by a strand of magic. You
are sneaking across to the other staircase when you
catch sight of a magic ring lying on the floor. You are
about to pick it up when the creature's arms start
waving their swords at you. The thing is waking up! If
you have some manacles, you can use them to bind the
creature while you either attack it or make good your
escape. If you wish to bind two of its arms together,
turn to 167. If you wish to bind its ankles together,
turn to 337. But if you have no manacles, turn to 307.

296
The corndor you take looks fairly wide and promising,
but it takes just one noise to bring you to a dead halt.
From round the corer, just ahead of you, comes the
hissing of a dozen snakes. If you wish to continue
round this corner, turn to 352. Otherwise, you must go
back to the junction and go either to the left (turn to

297-299

139), to the right, which will take you out of the caves
(turn to 80), or straight ahead (turn to 217).

297
In the darkness you don’t even see the dozens of hands

that reach out and seize you, You are powerless to
resist, as the cultists drag you to their sacrificial altar!

298
The conflict at the barricade is furious: though the
townsfolk are fighting a losing battle, they make the
Haggwort fight every step of the way, Seeing that the
townsfolk don’t seem to know of the Haggwort’s weak-
ness, you cry out, ‘Strike for their heads!’ Three Hage-
wort heads explode in quick succession.

‘Tonight is their greatest assault yet,’ gasps Wulf, who
once more fights at your side.

Quick! A Haggwort has broken through the barricade
and is coming for you.

HAGGWORT SKILL 9 STAMINA 5

If you win, turn to 213.

299
Taking Quinsberry aside for a moment, you suggest
that it might be more beneficial for him, personally, if
you can come to some sort of an agreement between
you. Sure enough the dry-faced official proves to be
amenable to your bribe. Making no attempt to quieten
his voice, he declares, These are the terms: you give

300

mé all the gold that you do have, together with any
equipment — save for your weapon which, | appreciate,
is the main tool of your trade. In exchange, | will give
you another week. seven more days in which to find
the money or make yourself scarce. OF course. if you
opt for the latter action | shall have no choice but to
declare you an outlaw. These terms are not open to
negotiation.’ Will you accept this rough deal (turn to
233), decline and surrender to Gallantarian law (turn to
199), or turn and flee (turn to 338)?

300

Lungs almost bursting, you flee from the mad town —
and are flung to the ground by a massive explosion!
Gomt has become an inferno. Huge clouds of amoke
billow up into the air, bringing with them the strong
smell of explosive powder. Is this the work of the
Mandrakes, or an act of brave suicide? Rubble lands all
around you as you slowly get to your feet and 4 singed
piece of paper floats gently down before you, It isa
brightly coloured leaflet promoting the ‘Circus of
Dreams’ You look at the dates onthe paper. The circus
Was due to be in Gornt for seven days, and sas leaving
this very moringt Throwing the hand-out aside, you
take up the Main Trade Route once more

Though weary, you walk through the nisht, and it is
sunrise when you come boa fork in the road. Will you
stay on the Main Trade Route (turn to 267) or head
south-west (turn to.227)7
501-303

301

Royal Lendle’s East Gate towers before you. Two
enormous, counterbalanced doors, constructed from
heavily reinforced steel, are set into an awesome city
wall which is so thick that it has defensive posts and
tunnels built into it. You are shocked to discover Quins-
berry Woad, waiting there for you with five of his men.
If you either have a Scroll of Civic Pardon or are hiding
in a rubbish cart, you may pass through the gate
unhindered (turn to 145). Otherwise, you will have to
try and rush through; this will be made easier if you can
create a diversion.

Test your Luck, subtracting 1 from the roll for each set
of Fire-crackers which you choose to throw {always
assuming you have any), to distract the guards (don’t
forget to cross them off your Adventure Sheet). If you
are Lucky, your bid for freedom succeeds (turn to 145).
If you are Unlucky, you are captured by the guards
(turn to 208).

302
Though it is dark, the campfire is bright — and the
circus performers are sitting in a circle, which means
that at least one of them may catch sight of you,
whichever way you approach. But approach you must,
for they are speaking in whispers. Test your Luck. If you
are Lucky, turn to 228; if you are Unlucky, tum to

Je

393
Guided by a misplaced and hopeless sense of valour,

304-306

you defy the odds and beat the armoured Warlord into
the ground But Voived is death, and death cannot be
killed. Frantic and panic-stricken, you look up to see
the shambling Undead marching towards you, their
weapons raised in an ever-tightening noose of death.
At journey's end comes horror. True horror. You fook
all about you and scream!

304
Descending a long, wide staircase, you come to a
crossroads. Will you go:

North? Turn to 172
South? Turn to 187
East? Turn to 266
West? ‘ Turn to 144

395

Urtha laughs at your feeble efforts: "A predictably
mortal thing to do,’ Then she commands the Haggwort
to restrain you. ‘We'll have no more of your pathetic
tricky,’ she snarls, The Haggwort hold you in a grip of
iron and the Wamphyr drifts towards you, A thunder-
clap booms as Urtha bares her rotted fangs, When
next you rise from the chair, it will be as a vampiric
servant of Urtha, Wamphyri Queen of the Twilight
Realm.

306
Beneath the scrutiny of five sets of undying eyes, you
try not to prevent even a muscle twitching. Test your
Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 279; if you are Unlucky,
turn to 346.
307-308

397
The creature blinks once, twice, then it is upon you. Its
mighty hoofs shake the very stone beneath your feet as
it powers towards you. Each Attack Round, all six of its
arms attack you at the same time (each with a SKILL
score of 8), but you may strike back against only one of
them, as if fighting six separate opponents. If you win
against any of its other arms, your blows have no
effect, serving only as parries. You will be fortunate
to survive this encounter with one of the ancient

Kalundai,
KALUNDAI SKILL 8 STAMINA 20
If you win, turn to 320.

308

Though your footsteps echo between the cavern walls,
the atmosphere of the place hangs heavy, with an eerie
silence. Ahead, the corridor opens out into a large and
decorous chamber in which stand seven statues; you
recognize them as the victims of a Gorgor’s stare.
Right in front of you, a vial of antidote rests on a stone
column, Unfortunately, there is enough antidote to
restore only one of the victims. You look at the statues;
all of them deserve freedom, but not all of them can
help you. And, right now, it isn’t a sword arm you need,
it's knowledge — a precious commodity these days.
You narrow your choice down to two scholarly-looking
figures. Look at the picture opposite and make your
choice. Will you give the antidote to the old man (tum
to 237) or to the young man (turn to 276)?
309-310

309
Your efforts come to nothing, for, though the rope is
damaged, it is strong enough to hold up the bridge.
One of the cultists attacks you with a sacrificial dagger,
while others ready their bows. You must defeat your
foe before it is too late.

DARK ELF CULTIST SKILL 7 STAMINA 8

If you win, you may either return to cutting the ropes
(tum to 261) or leave them alone and flee (turn to

327)

310
Making your appeal to the veterans, you say, ‘For
pity’s sake, my friends, our nations are at peace, | mean
you no ill-will. But what of your friend? Are his hateful
insults the words of a true monk?’ You point at the Orc.
‘Tell me, Orc, which gods do you worship?’

In reply, the Orc merely belches and grunts, ‘None o’
yer bizness, yer fat barrel of hogswillf And that’s all it
takes to convince the veterans that you are wrong
There has to be magic at work here, there has to ..

Hanging round the Ore’s neck is an amulet covered in
runes; this is what is responsible for both the Orc’s

311

disguise and his persuasive abilities. If you have a vial
of Sleeping Draught, turn to 195. If you do not, you
will have to try and snatch the amulet from round his
neck, Test your Skill. If you succeed, turn to 120; but if
you fail, tum to 132

311
Roll one die to see which of the Shadow Warriors has
ambushed you. When, after defeating the Warrior, you
are told to continue your adventure, you may return to
the tower (turn to rq), search further in the town
(turn to 340) or take the southbound road out of
Cumbleside (turn to 75). If you roll:

4 Turn to 8
2 Turn to 394
3 Turn to 259
Ss Turn to 183
? Turn to 245
6 Roll again

ee |e
312-314

312

You go over and gaze into the depths of the perfectly
smooth crystal; and as you do so, it begins to glow as if
lit by eldritch fires from within, Soon you find that you
have no interest in anything save the seductive dazzle
of the sphere. Fortunately a remote part of your mind
realizes what is happening and urges you to resist. A
superhuman effort of will is called for to free you from
the crystal’s lure. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn
to ro; if you are Unlucky, turn to 257,

313

Soon you have the rope tied firmly round your body
and are climbing over the lip of the dark hole. Smegg
plays out more and more rope, as you go down and
down, deeper into the shaft. ‘Now you know why
Smeggies pit! snarls Smegg up above. You look up,
worried, but can only spin helplessly as Smegg uses his
spider-jaw blade to sever the rope. You fall, screaming,
to your doom. Smegg will climb down later and take
his pickings...

314

No sooner does Hammicus unbar the door than it is
flung wide open by the foul, undead corpse of his son!
The creature strides in and grabs Hammicus by the
throat. The hermit, unable to defend himself, falls to his
knees, choking. You rush to help him, but the undead
creature ignores your strongest blows as, single-
mindedly, it concentrates on strangling the life out of
the hermit.

315-316

Soon it is all over. Hammicus lies dead, and his son falls
on top of him, lifeless once more. The moment Ham-
micus opened the door, there was nothing you could
have done to save him. It is with a heavy heart that
you bury both the hermit and his son in the woodland
near by, then make your way back south, Tragedy
seems to be dogging your every move. Deduct 1 point
from your LUCK and turn to 44.

315

You hear the clown shout, ‘We have a spy in our midst.
It is the mercenary. Quick! Catch the spy at once!’
Obeying their leader's command, the circus folk come
after you. Realizing that the game is up and that you
cannot hope to defeat them all without having surprise
on your side, you make a run for it. But it does look as
if you're not going to be swift enough. If you have a
set of Calthrops, turn to 104. If you don’t , turn to gx.

316

Glad to be free of the cultists, you make for the bright
light of the open arch. Because you have spent almost a
day skulking around in dark corridors, the sun blinds
your eyes, but you race on. The Dark Elves, however,
stop dead in their tracks. After countless years of living
in the catacombs, they have come to fear the sun. They
heap curses on you as you make good your escape.
And when you open your eyes properly, you are
amazed to find yourself on a low hilltop, overlooking
Karnstein! You have come through the Witchtooth
Line and lived to tell the tale. Turn to 282

317-318

317

You hurl the Fire-cracker down on to the stone floor. In
the confining darkness of the sewer, the flash is all the
more blinding, the explosion ali the more deafening
The Slygore moans with fear and drops into the water,
splashing its sewage all over you. Ears ringing and half-
blind, you flee before the creature can recover its
unearthly composure. Eventually you find a ladder
leading back up to the surface. You scramble out of the
sewers and are pleased to see that Quinsberry’s men
have apparently given up the chase

If you still want to visit the east side of the market, turn
to 82; if you want to visit the west side, turn to 66.
You may not return to an area you have already
visited, When you have finished any excursions, you
must leave the city. Do not follow the instructions
given on the market pages; tum, instead, either to 272,
if you wish to leave by the city’s South Gate, or to 60,
if you wish to leave by the nearer East Gate. (Note
these paragraph numbers on yout Adventure Sheet.)

318
Following a hunch, you grab the mirror and hold it up
to the face of the Kauderwelsch monster. To date, it has
only ever seen the Doktor and her victims, and how
they have looked. Now it sees the reflection of its own
unnatural ugliness — and it holds the Doktor responsible!
A solitary tear rolls down the monster's face before it
goes berserk, Kauderwelsch shouts, ‘No! Back Conggo.
Nooo!’ But it is no use: the monster grabs her and they
stagger about the chamber, locked in deadly combat

319-320

Glass containers crash to the floor, racks tumble in all
directions and the monster's mournful wailing fills the
air. Seizing the opportunity, you hastily free yourself,
Restore z point of Luck for your quick thinking and
turn to 87,

319
Manacles at the ready, you sneak up on the careless
guard and pounce! The Mandrake’s struggles are in
vain — you soon have his wrists firmly locked behind
his back (cross the manacles off your Adventure Sheet).
Then you push him down to the floor and slip out
through the gate. Turn to 300.

320

You hear shouting coming from the top of the staircase
by which you entered: ‘After the intrudert’ The Dark EIf
cultists have discovered your presence, and a dozen of
them are rushing down the stairs to search for you.
You quickly pick up the magic ring from the floor and
make for the other staircase. You have found the Ring
of Rabbam, it weakens necromantic beings such as the
Shadow Warriors, Whenever you fight a Shadow War-
rior in future, ignore its special combat instructions.
Treat it as a normal creature with one attack per round
causing normal damage, and ignore its special attack
tules. Now you must go, before the cultists catch you ~
you will have to leave behind any manacles you used
here (cross them off your Adventure Sheet). You run up
the second staircase and along a long, dark corridor
which ends in a fork. Will you go to the left (turn to
283) or to the right (tum to 273)?

321-322

321

Turing away from an annoying shyster who’s trying
to sell you a mongoose paperweight made of plaster,
you find your way blocked by six men dressed in
heavy armour; they are city guards. Once you see the
gnarled old weasel who is leading them, you understand
what all this is about: it is Quinsberry Woad, Gal-
lantaria’s chief tax collector, with his personal retinue.
Woad produces a scroll from the depths of his over-
large robes and says, ‘Captain, I am hereby authorized
to serve you with this Bill of Taxes, which must be paid
forthwith. In lieu of satisfactory fiscal settlement, I have
an open warrant for your arrest.’ He presents you with
the scroll and continues, “The original balance, charged
at compound interest, half-yearly and at a fixed annual
percentage rate for five years, comes to 568 Gold
Pieces precisely. Do you have the money?’

You clearly have not got and cannot afford to pay such
a vast sum; now you regret ever returning to the
capital, But what will you do? You could plead poverty
and let the guards arrest you (turn to 199), try to bribe
Quinsberry Woad (turn to 299), or turn on your heels
and make a run for it (turn to 338).

322
You snatch the mirror from your pack and brandish it
in the face of the Gorgon — who falls victim to her own
dark forces. But even when she herself has been turned
to stone, you still avoid her repulsive gaze. There is
nothing more to see or do in her lair, so you hurry back
to the junction. Will you now go te the left (turn to

323-324

217), to the right (turn to 296), or straight on, out of
the caves (turn to 80)?

323

Lightning-swift reflexes and total trust in your old
friend enable you to drop prone as a razor-sharp mach-
ete goes flying over your head; it just misses Villgran
and embeds itself in a tree trunk. One of the Haggwort
threw it at you, the same Haggwort that Wulf has just
killed. Will you now rush over to the barricade (turn to
298), go in search of the witch (tum to 142), or leave
the town (turn to 25)?

324
You will never regret buying the wondrous cape; the
Wantiors race blindly past. Leaving a cloud of dust in
their wake, they sweep out of Magyaar Pass and speed
northwards, Turn to 102.

325

325

You have found the clown’s Circus Journal. You don’t
have time to read all of it, but, in the few minutes you
do spend on the book, you learn a couple of important
things: the circus was taken over by force, a year ago,
by a sorcerer named Skarros; he it was who replaced
the performers with plant-like creatures called Man-
drakes. These Mandrakes can take on the appearance of
any one person they touch: they then kill their victim
so that they can adopt his or her identity. The circus is
the ideal cover for the Mandrakes, as they travel from
place to place, spreading their evil plague. Fortunately,
the journal also mentions the Mandrakes’ only weakness
— fire! Suddenly you hear a noise outside. You had
better get out before your presence here is discovered.
Return to 2§§ and pick an option you have not chosen
before.
326-328

326

Convinced that the sphere is not meant to be a goodwill
gift, you step aside. The moment it hits the floorboards,
it bursts open into a multitude of spring-loaded spikes,
blades and razor-sharp edges. You dread to think what
would have happened if you had actually grasped the
thing! The Man-Orc, the veterans and the landlord all
laugh at your ‘chicken dance’, Will you now attack the
Man-Orc (turn to 132), try to expose him for what he
really is (turn to 310), or ignore them all and go to the
bar (turn to 3)?

27

You turn and run, but the Dark Elf archers are ready for
you, Roll one die and deduct 1 fom the total to see
how many arrows hit you — deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA for each arrow that hits. If you are still alive,
you keep on running, pulling the arrows out of your
back as you go! But the cultists continue the chase
Worse, you can hear the shouts of more cultists coming
from this side of the chasm. Will you now go to the left
(turn to 32), or to the right (turn to 278)?

328
Beyond the door is a cramped kitchen, where you see a
large kennel housing a labrador who lies flat, with her
chin flopped on the tiled floor, As you tiptoe past, she
lifts her eyebrows to peer at you, cocks an ear, yawns
and then goes back to sleep. You nip out through the
back door and find yourself in a narrow street, Turning
right would take you back towards Quinsberry, so you
turn left, and laugh when you hear the labrador growl

329-331

menacingly at your pursuers, whose clattering armour
and loud shouts have disturbed her rest. Turn to 22.

329

There is a tremendously loud crunch as you shatter the
ages-old skull. You sense the creature's feelings of frustra-
tion, disbelief and anger as its whole frame turns rapidly
into dust. In a very short time, there is nothing left of
the Pan-Terric Behemoth to prove that it ever existed.
Restore 2 Luce point for your great achievement
Glancing at the tents, the tools, the remnanty of Guig:
nol's dream, you can see nothing but tragedy. You
leave the camp without disturbing it and make your
way back to the road to Kamstein. Turn to 282

330
You rush to the hermit and restrain him. The voice
outside wails, ‘Father, please. You must let me in. If you
don't 1 will diet’ Overcome with emotion, Hammicus
finds renewed strength and breaks free of your grasp.
The only way te stop him now is by the use of
regrettable force.

HAMMICUS SKILL 5 STAMINA 7

If, after one round of combat, you decide to let the
hermit open the door, turn to 314. But if you are still
determined to stop him, turn to 76.

33%
Freed from Urtha’s cruel domination, the Haggwort
become wild and uncontrollable, They grab the tyrant
and throw her on to the mystic fire — the real power in

332

Hustings; the magic inside the Haggwort heads stems
from this fiery source. It was the same magic that
reanimated Urtha, and it was the only thing that could
have destroyed her. She perishes instantly, Events have
come full circle, the corrupted earth-magic has run its
course, Something clatters at your feet; it is Urtha’s
Iron Band. Though you have no wish to control the
Haggwort, you feel compelled to pick it up (add it to
your Adventure Sheet). You look once more at the
fireplace. The eyes and the mouth have closed, and the
whole thing is starting to sink back down into the
marsh — taking the tower and the pinnacle with it. You
hurry out of the place before it collapses altogether,
and make for the southerly road out of town. You see
the Haggwort wading back into the moors, returning
to their resting places once more. Tun to 25.

332
As the Geomancers remove their sickles from around
your neck, the Arch-druid raises his arms and says, ‘In
accordance with the ancient laws of the Horned God,
you have passed the test and are free to roam the
power lines of Titan. We have enacted our destinies
and can do nothing more. Take this’ He pins a small
brooch in the shape of a green leaf on you, ‘It is a token
of the Earth-mother’s goodwill. Times are changing and
the Mother is threatened. You are the one who will
help. This has been foreseen, Now go! Look for help
from Titan, for only if has the strength to guide you on
your hopeless task.’ Add the Green Leaf Brooch to
your Adventure Sheet. The Arch-druid’s servants lead
you to a gate at the back of the grounds, Passing

Gf

333-334

through it, you come to a narrow street. Will you go to
the left (turn to 301) or to the right (turn to 118)?

333
Making sure that no one is watching, you creep round

to the back of the cown's wagon and open the door
You sneak into the dark cabin and... Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, turn to 293. IF you are Unlucky, tum to
345.

334

Sweat pours off you as you walk for hour after hour
beneath the blazing sun. You are resting in a shady
hollow when you hear the tramp of marching feet and
the grunting of countless voices coming from over a
rise, These are the tell-tale noises of a roaming Orc
tribe. You crouch down, hoping to remain hidden in
the hollow, but the Ores see you and start scampering
down the slopes on either side of you to cut off your
way of escape. You search for an exit out of this
tightening cordon and gasp with relief when you see a
cave near by, Then again, you are in the Witchtooth
Line, where caves are never simply caves. If you want
to hide inside the dark cave, turn to 206. If you would
rather try to outrun the Ores, tum to 35. If on the
other hand, you have a Chameleon Cloak and wish to
use if to try and sneak unseen through the Orc ranks,
turn to 163
335-337

335
Though the struggle was hard, you have defeated your
foe. The Shadow Warrior falls, wailing, in an untidy
heap. Yet no sooner does the evil fiend hit the ground
than dark vapours start to rise from its body. You stand
back and watch as the foul fumes enshroud the corpse,
obscuring it from sight. When they clear, the body is
no longer there. Only a scorch on the earth remains.
You may have beaten the Warrior, but you have not
destroyed it, It will take more than the weapons of
mortal man to lay such creatures to rest: it is more than
likely that you will meet one another again before this
tale is told. Rue the day! Now continue your adventure.

336

The sides of the pit are sheer and your numerous
atternpts to climb out all end in miserable failure. Hours
pass before you hear a female voice whisper, ‘Don’t
worry, I'm coming. Just a second longer.’ It is with
renewed hope that you look up — into the face of a
Gorgon! You turn to stone beneath her cruel gaze

337

You clamp the creature’s ankles together just in time. lt
tries to get up but falls flat on its face. Its eyes glare
with hatred and it hisses with rage as its arms scrape
along the floor towards you. You step nimbly round
the creature, keeping out of the reach of its swords, It is
one of the ancient Kalundai, But look! The chain of the
manacles is already starting to weaken. Tum to 320.

338-339

338

You give Quinsberry a shove so that he totters back
into his guards, and they all fall over in an untidy heap
The troops raise the alarm and the taxman squawks
with rage; never has he been so humiliated in his entire
life. Rather than restrain you, however, the bystanders
just stand there, laughing loud and long at the pompous
official’s plight. Before the guards can regain their feet,
you flee. A few metres ahead, you come to a junction.
Will you go left (turn to 351), right (turn to 384), or
straight ahead (turn to £34)?

339

Eager to lend a hand, you rush over to the gallant
warrior and introduce yourself. ‘I don’t believe it,’ he
gasps. “Of all the people I could’ve hoped for in this
hour of need!’ It is Wulf, your old friend and fighting
companion from the War of the Four Kingdoms. You
return your comrade’s embrace, then listen intently as
he explains. ‘It started a few days ago, with the coming
of the witch. Her tower just rose up out of the earth
Every night since then she’s been sending the Haggwort
to destroy everything in their path. Everyone’s too
scared to face the witch. I tried once but got nowhere.
But come, the Haggwort have reached the barricade,’
He points out an old man. ‘That’s Villgran. He has
armour and swords, should you need them.’

Will you go over to Villgran (turn to 97), accompany
Wulf to the barricade (turn to 298), or go to cut the
evil off at its source, the witch’s tower (turn to 142)?

340-341

349

Leaving the body of the fallen Warrior, you begin a
more thorough search of the place and encounter a fair
maiden, Clutching a robe tightly round herself. she
whispers. ‘It is not wise to dally in these parts at nigsht,
Come, The only safe place is the tower yonder.’ She
points towards the tower you passed earlier, then
hurries away in that direction, If you wish to follow
her, turn to 372. If you would rather continue your
search, turn to 23

41

Though meant for the ‘roman, the fiery spell has
descended upon you. From afar, a wizard has been
watching the ranter's dialogue with increasing irritation
and has now decided to shut her up with a simple
conjuration. Unfortunately, instead of her, it is you
who have been turned into a warty frog. Kamstein,
Warriors and words in general quickly lose their mean-
ing. Now where can you find some tasty flies?

ee: =e

342-344

342

All the wind is knocked out of you as you are sand-
wiched between the door and the hard rock wall (deduct
3 points from your sTAMINA). If you are still alive, you
enter the dark shelter. Though heavy with the stench of
Orc, the cave is well nigh bare and is uninhabited at
present. Black robes and a torn map of Royal Lendle lie
on the floor. The only other thing of interest is a small
metal casket. It is locked — but if you have a Black Key
or a vial of Metal Rot you may open it (turn to 354 —
and cross off Metal Rot from your Adventure Sheet if
you use that). But if you don’t have either of these
things, or would rather leave the casket alone, turn
to 248,

343

You sprint across the bridge and soon reach the far
side. There, you see that it is suspended by strong
ropes tied to wooden posts. More fleet-footed cultists
are crossing the bridge after you. If you want to try
and cut the ropes so that the bridge and all the howling
cultists on it fall into the chasm, tum to 246. [f you
would rather keep on running, turn to 327.

344
You nip into the gibbering wretch’s hovel and let him
guide you into a back room from which there is no
other exit. He tells you to wait in here until he gives
you the ‘all clear’. You do so, and some tense minutes
pass before the door is thrown open — by seven city
guards! Behind them, the old rascal gleefully toys with

345-348

a second Gold Piece — the things some folk will do for
money! Turn to 199.

Just inside the doorway stands a small box. As you
walk in, the lid of the box flips open, releasing a boxing
glove on the end of a spring. It flies up and punches
you on the nose (deduct 1 point from your STAMINA).
Kicking the thing aside, you search the wagon. Only
two items draw your attention. Which of the two do
you want to look at first: the safe (turn to §9) or a large
book, lying on the clown’s desk (turn to 325)?

346
Your actions are totally futile, and your corpse soon
joins those of Mendokan and the others butchered in
Magyaar Pass.

347
The circumstances are perfect. You grab a Fire-cracker

and hurl it to the ground in front of Ennian’s mob. In
the total darkness of the narrow brick-lined alley, the
echoing explosion is most effective. Your enemies fall
back, clutching their eyes and ears, while you, having
taken the trouble to close both, make good your escape.
Turn to 84.

348
You run, in order to gain speed, then jump. Hugging
your knees, you roll over and over through the air and
then let go, so that your legs shoot out and catch
Voivod in the chest, kicking him away from the bell.

349

Test your Skill. If you succeed, turn to 263; but if you
fail, tun to 133

349

Night has fallen by the time you reach the hermit’s
cottage. Hammicus the hermit is a friendly old man and
he wastes no time in providing you with a hot meal
(restore 2 STAMINA points). As you eat, you risk total
honesty and tell Hammicus all about your quest, Frown-
ing, he goes over to consult a book at his desk, then
says, ‘Over two thousand years ago, there existed one
Voivod, whose very name was a byword for cruelty.
His power threatened life itself; but the world took
shape in the form of the Earth-mother and the Horned
God; together, they fought Voivod and defeated him
They were not able to kill death itself but could only
imprison him in a secret place Voivod’s five lieutenants
disappeared, never to be seen again — or so it seemed
For now we can understand the old nursery-rhyme,
The Shadow Warriors have been seeking Voivod’s
prison in the hope of freeing him, so that he may
embark on a new reign of terror, It is said that a book,
the Astrakkaans Numeris, predicts Voivod’s return and
provides the means whereby he can be defeated. I don’t
know if the book truly exists, but I do know that
Voivod is about to walk Titan again!’

Suddenly, there comes a heavy pounding on the door:
three slow, booming knocks that almost shatter the
wood, They are followed by a low, mournful voice
‘Father, it is I, your son. Please, let me in. It is so cold
out here,’

35°

Hearing this, Hammicus falls back and cries in sorrow
and terror, ‘It cannot be. My son died seven years ago!
But he overcomes his fears and makes for the door.

Unless you stop him, the hermit will admit his long-
dead son, Will you try to stop the hermit (turn to 330),
or let him unbar the door (furn to 414)?

35°
Your joy at escaping vanishes when a shower of arrows

comes flying overhead — not from the Ores of the Black
Scorpion, but towards them! The Orcs of the Big
Boulder have arrived, planning to take their rivals by
surprise. Luckily, none of the arrows hits you as you
throw yourself to the ground, Will you offer your
services to the Orcs of the Big Boulder, so that you can
take your revenge on your captors (turn to 377), or just
let them get on with their own fighting and flee south-
wards (tur to 282)?

351-353

351

The road you have taken leads into the beggars’ quarter,
a maze of narrow streets strewn with rubbish, layabouts
and pickpockets. As you wind your cautious way to-
wards its centre, you hear the shouts of your pursuers
fade in the distance. However, it is certain that Quins-
berry’s men will not give up the chase, so you keep on
running. If you are carrying a Loaded Die, tum to 286;
otherwise, turn to 360.

352

Rounding the comer, you enter a large room which is
strewn with clothes, personal belongings, caskets, jewel-
lery and musical instruments, all from various periods
of time. But there is no sign of what is causing the
hissing — a sound which keeps getting louder! If you
want to risk searching through all the things scattered
about here, turn to 1§§, If you do not, you will have to
return to the junction and either go left (turn to 139),
right, which will take you out of the caves (turn to 80),
or straight ahead (turn to 217).

353
Just as things are starting to look bad for you, Wulf and

three brave townsfolk come to your aid. The five of
you just finish off the remaining Haggwort, but you
have no such luck with their evil device. Nothing you
do can dislodge or damage the earth-shaker in any
way. You can only watch as the nearby houses start to
fall, shaken apart by the vibrations in the earth. ‘All is
lost!’ cries Wulf. ‘It’s the witch's doing. We must take
the south road and flee.’ Will you do as Wulf suggests

354-355

(turn to 25), or leave him and go in search of the
‘witch’ (turn to 142)?

354

Inside the casket is a weapon much favoured by assas-
sins: it is a Murder Sphere, a small metal ball which you
throw at your enemy. On impact, the ball turns itself
inside out as spikes, razors, barbs and saws spring out
in all directions, You may use the sphere in the first
Attack Round of any one combat against any one
opponent. When you throw it, roll one die to see how
many of the spheres protrusions hit your foe, Then roll
another die for each wound inflicted, to see how many
STAMINA points your foe must deduct. If your foe is
still alive, you must then fight as normal,

You are just putting the sphere in your pack when you
hear a noise that you have come to dread: the pounding
of horses’ hoofs, Rushing to the open doorway, you
see the Shadow Warriors tearing across the open
country, If you want to stay where you are and hide in
the cave, turn to rx, If you would rather make a run
for it, before you find yourself trapped in this small
place, turn to 37.

355
You throw the hook so that it catches among, the

stalactites hanging down from the roof of the cave, you
tug on the rope, then swing! Even you are amazed
when you reach the far side of the chasm without
mishap, Bul you will have to leave the rope behind
you, as the hook is caught. On the other side of the

356-357

chasm the thwarted cultists catch sight of you and
shout their hatred. And you can hear more cultists,
somewhere on your side of the chasm, Will you now go
to the left (tum to 32) or to the right (turn to 278)?

356
Realizing the futility of combat against the Slygore,
you stagger away in a bid to escape, Test your Luck. If

you are Lucky, turn to 180; but if you are Unlucky,
turn to 154.

357

With its strong limbs and tough coating of bark, the
Mahogadon is a daunting opponent. If you wish, you
may try to weaken your foe by burning it. Cross off a
skin of oil from your Adventure Sheet, and then Test your
Skill, If you succeed, you bum and weaken the creature.
IF you fail the creature's unyielding grip forces you to
drop the oil on the ground, wasting it. Whatever the
outcome, you must now fight the Mahogadon as
normal. If you have succeeded in burning it, deduct >
points from its sxitt score and 4 points from its
STAMINA score before beginning, combat.

MAHOGADON SKILL 10

STAMINA 12
358-359

If you win, you may either continue to the south,
across More open country, towards Hustings (turn to
135) or go back to the road you left earlier (turn to
160).

358

Drawing nearer to the circus, you see that the dozen
performers are an odd mix of acrobats, tumblers, animal

trainers and so on; each is busy dealing with his or her

own props. One figure seems to be in charge: it is a
clown, a lithe woman: already dressed in her show
costume, her face covered with grease-paint depicting a
fixed smile that looks almost sinister. You walk over to
the clown and ask her where the circus is going and if
the wagons have room for an extra passenger, Her face
breaks into an even wider smile as she replies, ‘We are
going to Shattuck. As for passage, you will have to
eam your way. Are you amusing? Can you mm a
sideshow? Perhaps you know a trick or two?’ If you
have Bartolph’s die, turn to 138. If you don’t, will you
ask her to give you a chance to prove your worth (turn
to 214), or admit that there’s nothing you can do that
would be of use to the circus, and turn away, to
continue your journey alone and on foot (turn to 9)?

You ignore the black slop — and wisely so, as the thing
is alive. It is a Slod-Kedbolm, whose skin is poisonous
Bored with waiting around, the Slod-Kedbolm slithers
away. You keep your eyes on the creature, until you
are distracted by silken tones: ‘It is illmannered to
refuse hospitality,’ Turn to 49.

360-361

360

You hare up the street, with six sword-waving city
guards in your wake. Not far ahead, round the corner,
is a magician’s shop; maybe you can shake off your
hunters by hiding in there. However, experience has
taught ‘you that such places are perilous, if full of
possibilities. Will you enter the magician’s abode (turn
to 105), or pass it by (turn to 216)?

361
You wake up — even the Nightmare Master’s attack
took place in your dreams! But now your ordeal is
finally over, and you feel your strength returning (re-
store 3 points of STAMINA). Then you hear a low,
echoing voice: “Though I murder sleep, I can never die.’
It is the Nightmare Master. Beaten for now, he departs.

Climbing to your feet, you see that you are in a small,
dimly lit hallway, Four doors lead out of it, One of
them opens and two figures walk out: Dark Elves, clad
in monastic robes, You dodge back and hide in a
shadowy alcove as they walk silently across the hall
and pass through one of the other doors. They are
cultists, and this is their temple. If your sacrilegious
presence is detected here, you will most certainly be
killed. Will you go through the north door (turn to
374), the south door, after the two Dark Elf cultists
(turn to 68), the east door (turn to 89), or the west
door (turn to 56)?

ee
362-363

362

‘Look at his reflection,’ she says. ‘Korin may be scared,
but she’s not stupid.’ You angle the mirror so that the
Burgomeister is reflected in it. Nothing could have
prepared you for such a shock as this: there, in the
silvered pane, stands the Burgomeister, exposed as a
vegetable-like humanoid. You use the mirror to look at
yourself and at Korin; you both look normal. But the
Burgomeister! You try looking at him again in the
mirror — and the result is the same. ‘He’s a Mandrake,’
spits the woman.

Ennian just smiles and calls over his shoulder for some
help. Then he turns back to you. ‘You shouldn't have
done that, it was most impolite,’ he sighs. ‘Still, there’s
no reason why we can’t sort out our differences peace-
fully. If you'll just hand over the mirror and come
quietly...’

Behind you, Korin runs off towards the far end of the
alley. Will you follow her (tum to 84) or attack the
Mandrake Burgomeister (turn to 252)?

363

Telling the Orcs what you think they want to hear, you
admit to being a spy, sent by the Court at Royal Lendle
to discover enemy movements. ‘Hah! See, I told yerz,’
snaps the shaman triumphantly. ‘A spy. The ainshunt
lawz tell uzz wot ta do ta spies, don’t they?’ Having
lost another round in his power struggle with the
shaman, Uggamonggo shrugs and, with an air of some-
thing approaching sadness, draws his long knife. Your
adventure ends here.
364-366

364

Once, twice, three times the low sonorous chiming of
the bell rings in your ears. Then the very ground cracks
open as the bodies of the fallen rise up from their
unmarked graves. Their expressionless, rotted faces
await command. So far, you can see only a few hundred
of them scattered about the arid landscape, but soon
they will all be free — all ten thousand of them! The
Voivod strikes the bell again and again. Now you rush
forward to stop him, but the shambling Undead obey
their master and bar your way. Roll two dice to see
how many of the shambling Undead strike you as you
fight your way through them. For each hit, deduct 2
points from your STAMINA. Armour and Testing your
Luck may be used to reduce the amount of damage
done to you. If you survive this battering, tum to 73.

365
No one hears the drawn-out screams as they echo
round and round the sewers. The Slygore has dropped
down on top of you, and it is with a strange feeling of
detachment that you realize the screams are your own.

366

You have found the vital book of numbers, written by
Parcleasus the numerologist. You leaf through it until
you find the most important page and tear it out of the
book. You can study the page now or at any time in
the future by turning to 16 (note this number on your
Adventure Sheet). Just as you close the book, a secret
panel in the far wall slides open! If you have a Chame-
leon Cloak, turn to 127; otherwise, turn to 1§0.

367-369

367

The people of the small town are already preparing for
war, collecting whatever weapons they can lay their
hands on. Uptumed wagons, wooden boxes and bits of
fencing form a pitiful makeshift barricade between the
town and the moors. Seeing that you are human, and a
stout fighter to boot, the townsfolk hurry you through
the blockade, But they have no time for pleasantries;
they turn their attention back to the dark silhouettes
stalking the moors. Inside the barricade an armoured
figure rallies his people with a call to arms: ‘Stand fast
We must not fall. The witch and her devilry be damned!
To arms! To arms! The Haggwort are upon us!’ Will
you:

Use the confusion of the battle to flee

southwards, out of the town? Turn to 25
Make yourself known to the brave

warrior and offer your services? Turn to 339
Slip away and investigate the strange |

tower on the pinnacle? Tum to 142

368
The door is locked. If you have a Copper Key, or a vial
of Metal Rot (which you may pour into the lock — cross
it off your Adventure Sheet), turn to 112. If you have
neither, turn to 258.

Whether you fall victim to an unseen trap or to a
lurking creature is unimportant. You were foolish to
enter such a dangerous place without something to
379-371

light the way, and you have paid the ultimate price for
your folly,

370

The fight is a long and hard one, but the city guards
eventually regain control. Many people have been
injured and some, including all the agitators, have been
killed. The guard marshal tears the dead leader's black
tunic open, exposing the mark of Chaos branded on his
chest! Moreover the corpse is wearing a magic pendant
which made all but the strongest-willed of listeners
susceptible to his foul utterances. He was just one of
the many servants of Evil who are being sent to upset
the uneasy alliance between the four kingdoms. Satis-
fied, the marshal turns to you. ‘It is fortunate that you
were here, mercenary,’ he says, ‘the struggle may other-
wise have gone differently. Before this disgrace
occurred, I had the chance to learn something of your
plight. Therefore, as a reward for your efforts here, I
grant you a Scroll of Civic Pardon. From now on, you
are free of your debt to the City.’ Restore 1 Luck point,
and add the Scroll of Civic Pardon to your Adventure
Sheet.

After all this commotion, you decide that you had best
be on your way to meet Mendokan’s party. If you want
to leave the city by the South Gate, turn to 272. If you
would rather leave by the nearer East Gate, turn to 60.

371
You reach forward to touch the disgusting object, It is

warm and slippery, and it pulsates nauseatingly

; |

372-374

Suddenly the mesh of tubes wraps round your hand in
an iron grip. Small barbs grow out of the veins and the
whole mess starts crawling up your hand. The only
way to stop it going any further is by cutting off your
own hand at the wrist! If you have a weapon and you
want to take this drastic step, turn to 280. If you would
rather wait and see what happens, or if you don’t have
a weapon, tum to 85

372
You follow the mysterious lady back towards the old
tower. She opens the single, heavy door and beckons
you inside. You do so. .. and see stars. She has hit you
hard on the back of your head with a cosh! You fall to
the floor, unconscious; turn to 186.

. - 2 See

Decide how many Gold Pieces you wish to give the
highwayman, then rol] one die. If you roll less than or
equal to the number of Gold Pieces you have chosen,
the highwayman accepts your payment and lets you go
unharmed (deduct the gold from your Adventure Sheet).
In this case, you may either continue in a northerly
direction in search of the hermit who, the highwayman
claims, is dead (turn to 349); if you feel you have
wasted too much time here already, you may head back
south (turn to 44). If, however, you roll higher than the
number of Gold Pieces you have offered, turn to g2.

You open the north door and enter what must be the
cult’s chamber of worship. One side of the room is
375

taken up by a long altar, resplendent with sacred para-
phernalia. Behind the altar is a huge statue of a Dark Elf
with six arms, and behind the statue is an open archway,
through which you can see a descending staircase.
Suddenly a loud gong resounds and the room is plunged
into darkness — the glow from the walls now gone. The
hall door opens behind you, and you hear a rush of
footsteps come into the room. If you wish to slip down
the staircase, turn to 295. Jf you would rather stay
where you are, turn to 297

375
You lift the circular lid and climb down a set of mungs
into the dark sewers. Though no guards follow, you
hurry on, your path running alongside a stomach-
turning river of sewage. Soon, however, you are hope-
lessly lost in the meandering underground complex and
cannot find a way back up to ground level. Things get
even worse when you hear an awful moan arise from
the depths of the sludge. It is with a sense of despair
that your worst fears are confirmed for, lifting high out
of the water to tower above you, is a dread Slygore. It
is said that these creatures are unwittingly created by
the city’s many alchemists and sorcerers who, despite
376-378

public protests, are forever polluting the city sewers
with the potent by-products of their esoteric experi-
ments. Such wastes react with the effluent to form
Slygore, shambling mounds of murderous filth. Wilf
you:

Attack the creature? Turn to 70
Look in your pack for something which
may defeat it? Turn to 230

Flee from it? Turn to 356

376

Your victory was a hard-earned one. The woman fought
like an animal, and when you struck her you saw that
her blood was green! There is clearly some great evil at
work here. You turn to go, but just then you hear
something that freezes you to the spot a quiet. teasing
laugh coming from the woman you haye just slain! You
quickly tur around. Her body has gone. It is only
when you hear her sly laugh again that you hurry
away; turn to 231

377

A shower of stubby Orc arrows rains down on you.
Your adventure ends here.

378
Running at full speed. your right heel catches in the
wet grass at an angle and slips forward, You slam into
the earth, the shock of the impact coursing painfully up
your spine (deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA). You
climb back on to your feet and watch as the ever-
shifting face spews four repulsive abominations out of

379

its cavernous green mouth. In some ways the creatures
resemble giant flies, but they have human heads, and
bits and pieces from a variety of other plants, animals
and insects. They are Crombane, spawn of the dying
earth, and, though they are too heavy to fly, they are
powerful runners. They charge towards you, yowling
like demented wolves, their disgusting legs throwing
up clods of sodden earth. Will you stand and fight (tum
to 290), or flee (turn to 14)?

379
You must fight all six Haggwort at once but, because
you are in a battle-rage and because you know of their
weakness, you inflict sTAMINA loss on each and every
one you hit.

SKILL STAMINA
First HAGGWORT 10 1
Second HAGGWORT 9 3
Third HAGGWORT 11 2
Fourth HAGGWORT 8 1
Fifth HAGGWORT Lo 4
Sixth HAGGWORT 9 2

After two rounds of combat, turn to 353.

380-383

380
The three fine-honed blades swish together and close.
Your adventure ends here

381
When you hear a sharp click come from the floor, you
don’t waste any time thinking. You leap forward, just
as the floor gives way beneath your feet. You have
avoided falling into a deep pit. Moving on from the
trap, you come to a junction. Will you go:

Left? Turn to 296
Right? Turn to 217
Straight ahead? Turn to 139
Back the way you came and out of
the caves altogether? Turn to 80
382

‘All is chaos and confusion,’ says Jack-in-the-Green
‘Anger comes too swiftly in these troubled times and,
where there is anger, death is sure to follow. Your task
is to heal old wounds, to find peace in Narbury. But be
warmed! Violence can never be the final answer, Evil
must defeat itself. Your duty is to help, not to spread
further anger. When you think you have succeeded, say
the word “Cerunnos” in your mind and we will see what
unfolds.’ Turn to 398

383
When you reach the bottom of the rough shaft, you
discover that it is not wide enough for you to tug your
grappling hook free. You will have to leave the rope
behind (cross it off your Adventure Sheet). Looking

384-386

around, you see that you have descended in the very
middle of a crossroads and that the walls of the four
smooth passages emit a faint glow. Will you now go:

North? Turn to 106

South? Turn to 114

East? Turn to 122

Wesi? Turn to 144
384

Your road brings you to a small courtyard filled with
fruit and vegetable stalls. The only way not barred by
city guards is to take a sharp left up a narrow street.
Before going round this turning, you may try and delay
your pursuers by tipping over some of the stalls. If you
want to do this, turn to rro. If you would rather keep
on running, turn to 78. However, if you would like to
stop and give yourself up before things get too serious,
turn to 199.

385

Though you don’t really know why, you take a pick-
axe and start digging. And in only a matter of hours,
you have managed to cut most of the skeleton free of
the sandstone. It is only then that the hands of the
skeleton start moving! If you have some manacles, you
may use them to bind its bony hands together. Is
Guignol still alive? If so, turn to rog. If not, turn to
185,

386
After a few uneventful hours you reach the foothills
of the mountain range. There is no way over these
387

treacherous peaks. Instead, your road ends at a massive,
pitch-black cavemouth. This is the much-used entrance
into the infamous honeycomb of tunnels which is said
to permeate the entire Line. It might well be considered
foolish to enter these caves af all, but it would be
suicidal to enter them without a lantern. If you have a
lantern and you wish to enter the cave, deduct one skin
of oil from your Adventure Sheet and turn to 240. If you
are foolish enough to enter the cave without a lantern,
turn to 369, But if you would rather avoid the caves
altogether, you will have to make your way back to the
Shattuck road; turn to 334.

387
It is with a sense of anticlimax that you discover that
the Hall of Dreams is just a room full of bending,
curving mirrors which ripple and distort your reflection
in a supposedly humorous way. You're not laughing
... And you're still not laughing when one of the
mirrors disappears, right before your very eyes, reveal-
ing a small stone chamber beyond — a chamber which
cannot possibly be real since there is no way it could fit
inside the wagon. You lift your hand and move it
slowly through the ‘mirror’ frame. The room is real!
Looking inside, you see a man-sized shape leaning
against a stone slab. It is alive with all sorts of fearsome
growths and a mesh of revolting veins hangs down
from it to the floor, where they are wrapped round the
withered carcass of a badger. The veins have sucked all
the life-juices out of the poor animal, Without warning,
another mesh of veins shoots out towards you, but falls
short. If you have read Hegmar’s Warming, turn to 204.
388

If you have not, you may either touch the mesh of
veins (turn to 371), attack the foul creature (turn to 1§7),
or leave the place altogether. If you decide to leave,
return to 2§§ and pick an option you have not chosen
before,

388

Looking at the map, you need to know two things: the
first is where you think Voivod will be right now — you
will need a degree of common sense to work this out.
Once you have decided where, on the map, Voivod is,
you will have to turn that place-name into numbers, If
you have this knowledge, set to work immediately.
When you think you have found the right number, turn
to it. If the entry you turn to does not make sense, you
have chosen wrongly. If the entry does make sense,
carry on with the adventure. Because you have taken
so long to reach the village, you get only one shot at
this. If you choose wrongly, or if you just don’t know
how to find Voivod in the first place, turn to 229

389-391

389

Your ploy works like a dream: dozens of people all
round you scramble in a mad hunt for the few pitiful
coins you have scattered among them. The city guards
rush forward to quell the chaos, leaving the exits from
the square unguarded. Are you tempted by the sight of
the green and pleasant grounds of a small temple,
bordered by a low wall (tum to 164), or do you steal
away down a narrow lane (turn to 118)?

39°
Only when you reach the ‘man’ do you realize that ‘he’

is far from human, Darkness prevents you from seeing
just what the creature is, but you have no trouble
hearing its swamp-gurgled snarls, or in catching the
glint of the vicious blade it swings towards you!

HAGGWORT SKILL 10 STAMINA 4

If you win, turn to §

391
While at the stores, you cast an eye over the equipment
for sale there. You may buy a sword for 2 Gold Pieces,
or a mace for 4 Gold Pieces; the mace costs foes 3
points of sTAMINA each time they are hit (4 points if
you Test your Luck successfully, but no points if you are
unsuccessful). For 5 Gold Pieces you may also buy a
suit of leather armour. Though the armour is not built
to last, it’s incredibly tough. It can take a total of 5 hits
before it becomes useless. If you are hit while wearing
leather armour, you lose only 1 point of STAMINA
instead of 2 (no points of srAMINA if you Test your
392-393

Luck successfully, but 4 points if you are unsuccessful).
You must also add 1 to any Test your Skill rolls you
make while wearing the armour, If you buy anything
here, add it to your Adventure Sheet and deduct the gold
you spend. Unfortunately, no one in the stores has
heard of any ‘man of numbers’, so you will have to
continue your search in either the taverns (turn to 209)
or the town square (turn to 27).

392
You do not want to kill the guard — but you won't

have to if you can disarm him, Being a professional, he
will surrender once he loses his sword. Fight the guard
as normal but, if you hit him, you do not injure him (for
that reason the guard does not have a STAMINA score).
Nothing happens unless your score in any Attack
Round is at least 3 points higher than the guard’s, in
which case you disarm him and the combat ends. Note
that he has no qualms about injuring you.

CITY GUARD SKILL 8

More guards are climbing up on to the roof even as
you are fighting. If you have not disarmed your foe
after four rounds, you will be captured (turn to 199). If
you do win, you will have to jump down on to the
horse after all (turn to 100).

393
Moonlight paints the night-time landscape with an

eerie silvery glow, illuminating your first view of
Cumbleside. This town was abandoned long ago, its
residents weary of having to guard themselves against

394

the constant stream of malice which descended on them
from the Witchtooth Line: Ogres, Demons, Goblin
raiding-parties and worse. You are passing through the
outskirts of the town when you come to a tall tower,
standing alone like a needle in the darkness. A light
shines in the uppermost window. If you want to stop at
the tower, turn to 141. IF you would rather press on
into town, turn to 212.

394
This Shadow Warrior carries a multitude of finely

crafted daggers, slung in bandoliers across its chest. At
the start of each round of combat, the Warrior throws a
blade at you. Roll one die: if you roll 1-4, the dagger
misses; but if you roll 5 or 6, it thuds into your flesh
and you must deduct 2 points from your STAMINA
Armour or Testing your Luck will not reduce this
damage. Whether the dagger hits you or not, you must
then fight a normal Attack Round of combat

Second SHADOW WARRIOR skKILL 9g STAMINA Q
If you defeat the Warrior, turn to 335.

395-396

395
Inside the large cavemouth, the sunlight gives way to a
gentle glow — the walls are luminous. Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, tum to 381. If you are Unlucky, turn to

1gI.

396

Roggmondo hesitates, then relaxes and says, ‘All right,
I believe you. I’ve no love for that money-grabbing ball
of grease and greed either. I’ll hide you — but if this is a
trick and you're really working for that swine, I'll make
sure you don’t see the year out. If I don’t get you, the
Tattooists’ Guild will’ He takes you to a back room,
where another room is located, hidden behind a secret
panel

You spend at least an hour in here before Roggmondo
tells you you can come out. Some guards did search the
place, he tells you, but they never once suspected your
presence. You thank Roggmondo and promise to return
the favour one day. When you leave the tattoo parlour,
Woad’s men are nowhere to be seen.

397

If you still want to visit the east side of the market, turn
to 82; if you want to visit the west side, turn to 66.
You may not revisit a side you have already been to.
When you have finished any visits, you must leave the
city. Do not follow the instructions given on the market
pages; instead, you must leave by either the South Gate
(turn to 272) or the nearer East Gate (tum to 60).
(Note these numbers on your Adventure Sheet.)

397
For a moment you stand, lost in thought, but your

reverie is disturbed by a familiar voice. Though no one
else seems to see it, the grass on either side of the road
rustles with impressions of Jack-in-the-Green. ‘This is
the reward for fooling with nature. The elements have
no faith in man the builder, man the user, man the
destroyer, yet you carry tokens of worth. You are not
the one to light fires, to chop down trees, to level

398

mountains. You are good. The Earth-mother and the
Homed God await you’ You are suddenly overcome
by a strange dizziness, Turn to go

* 398

‘Troubled times await you,’ the enigmatic figure con-
tinues, ‘but the Horned God sends a gesture of good-
will: nd the man of numbers, or his book, Without either,
you will fail.” Then the face is gone. You decide to ally
yourself with the elemental forces whom Jack-in-the-
Green serves as a messenger, You will be the Earth-
mother’s champion against the evil Shadow Warriors,

Gornt is actually much further south than it appears on
your map, and it is night-time when you finally reach
the high town wall. Passing through the North Gate,
you hear noises of unrest and catch the smell of smoke,
yet you don’t see any town guards, no gate wardens,
no one at all. You are wondering what to do when you
see a young man come running out of his home. He
shouts, ‘Go away! You're not my wife’

A young woman comes after him. Smiling, she tugs
at his wrist and says, ‘But of course I’m your wife,
silly. Who else could I be? Now stop being foolish and
come back inside’ The man refuses, and they struggle
violently,

399

If you want to try and put a stop to their fight, turn to
284. If you would rather leave them alone, and make
for the town centre, turn to 231.

399

You find yourself on the Main Trade Route, far
south of Cauldon Ring. Ahead, you see a number of
gaily coloured carts and caravans, and a group of odd-
looking folk. This is “The Circus of Dreams’, and the
troupe is about to move on It occurs to you that you
could save some time on your journey by riding with
them; it would also give you a chance to follow up any
suspicions you may have about the circus’s recent visit
to Gornt. Do you want to hurry along and ask the
troupe for a lift (turn to 358) or keep your distance and
continue walking alone (turn to 9)?
400

400

You dodge Voivod’s bone-crushing gauntlets and thrust
the Spear of Doom deep into his armoured body. He
cries aloud with shock, and you are flung back by an
explosion of Life-force. Astonishment numbs your mind
as you lie there in the dirt and witness events almost
beyond your comprehension. The shambling Undead
fall back into their graves, and all five Shadow Warriors
reappear, only to be pulled skywards in a whirl of Life-
force. The five fleeting shadows are scattered, howling
on the wind, never to return. You look back towards
Voivod and see that his armour has dissolved, revealing
an emaciated old man. He stumbles forward crying,
‘Life! ] had forgotten .., The smell of the flowers, the
feel of the breeze. ]...1...’

The Sisters of Time, the Homed God and Jack-in-the-
Green all appear before you. As one, they say, ‘You
have done well, forsaking the hand of vengeful death
for that of forgiving life, By this act you have righted
all the wrongs and made whole all the corruptions.
Voivod, Warlord of the Apocalypse, is human once
more. Take him and reacquaint him with the ways of
life.’ Then they are gone.

You stand there on the windswept battle plains, and
put your arm round the old man who is crying with the
simple joy of being alive.
LZ & th
ae ot ;
lef er

(Fs i }
\a b é'
y

MONTAG FRATRS

he

iS Sy

i ‘i

yt

ao J

i
idea

’ ’

ut
c if

Ay

4 i;

ia

a,

’ i-
ala
, /

‘a
| af)

¥ \@
wv” fan

i”

i
aa)
a
, i‘ ‘4
My
, Ar

, j hy
f 4
ar :
/
'
” we

cor =a THE BEST IN PAPERBACKS, LOOK FOR THE E((
———

~~

every Corer of the world. on avery subject under the sun Peony

acerts quality Am d variety « the very best in | ablishiag today

In
eat
bout Hooks availble from Pengain—inciuc

~¢ complete mformation a
_ und buw to-order then, wriic to

ins, Pemguat' ‘lassics ue! Arkansas
ppropriate address beiow Please pote thut for copyrigh

Pr af
ghe
selection of books varies from country to country

the

it rene

ie United Kingdon: Picoee wee 10 rueot EF. Penpors Goce |

a ,
ware snudowert, Middiars, UB? ODy
uf ye oc have =
™m

af fal
ao ine Linited Statee:

vy diffcally a1 O&tarnnig a title, please sond your order wAh He Cor
er gilus few pres Cure fev primiuge und gackuperg, to Ot Mow Neil, Wen Dm

fleses
Neate wote iy Mepr TA. Poaewo, 20 Meera M1 Wy Parks

foptle wil, New lerrev 6
t Mosleerfarit, ive? 1c
bs oS
in c gruidla: Pewee erie i Pynpuin Mooks C nae Lod, M01 Jott Sirect Va
apne! LAR if

Ayetreta: Pycuer * ite to the MuvAcung Depart Maio Niwas Au

ne, Mee 297, Wir 1 , Try,
eo rt on 257) Aogwoo ewrhe 317
“ws New Zealand: Moats write ite Markus Leparameiil, Mengam Aavis |
i id. Prive Hus i php, AveohAard 9

Omwnew Lat WH &nu Apurivs

tedis: Micuse eric to Pony
New Methi, PONY

i” =
sf wel Plas

te Netherinods: Sicase write! 1) Penge Books Netheriavaly Ft P yy nate
pet
wt shoal Weer
Weet Germany: Mice wtiic oo Porguin flogas Lid: Priedeiefiatr '
i
p Ane! Fre torts Adaie t
“ Sopeilal ier . writ m dante ed] Evaqun faile Ser NN
E may. te i Midnw
gm Pialy! | max MTILO te) Penguin fy ' rt ' iJ OWA}
gui Frewe) Vieuse weile | Peon fh fod, 10 iy Alou
g-7M fart
an Jagan: Piers write | i onveuee Penguii Japan tal }
SP, Kerndu lida, Chuyowe-A lates 10!

-
—
- =

FOR THE BEST IN PAPERBACKS, LOOK FOR THE (a

—
— od

In every corner of the world, on every subject under the sun, Penguin
represents quality and variety — the very best in publishing today

For complete information about books available from Penguin - including
Pulfins, Penguin Classics and Arkana— and how Lo order them, wrile lo us
at the appropriate address below. Please note that for copyright reasons
the selection of books varies from country to country-

In the United Kingdom: Please write to Depr E.P., Penguin Books Ltd,
Harmondsworth, Middlesex, UB7 GDA

Tf you have any difficulty m obtaining a title, please send your order with the correct
money, plus ten per cent for postage and packaging, PO Box Noli, West Drayton,
Middlesex

In the United States: Picase write to Dept BA, Penguin, 299 Murray Hilf Parkway,
East Rutherford, New Jersey 07073

In Canada: Please wrile to Penguin Books Canada Lid, 2807 John Street, Markham,
Ontario L3R IBF

In Australia: Please wrile to the Marketing Department, Penguin Books Australia
Lid, PO Sox 257, Ringwood, Vicreria 3134

In New Zealand: Please woile to the Markenng Department, Penguin Hooks (NZ}
Lid, Private Bag, Takapuna, Auckland 9

In India; Please wrote to Penguin Overseas Lid, 706 Eros Apariments,
56 Nehru Place, New Defhi, 110019

In the Netherlands: Please write 10 Penguin Books Netherlands B V., Postbus 195,
NL-1380A D Weesp

in West Germany: Please write to Penguin Books Lid, Friedrichstrasse 20-72
D-6000 FrankfurtiMain I

In Spain: Please wrile to Longiman Penguin Espafia, Calle San Nicolas 15,
£-28013 Madrid

In Italy: Please write to Penguin ftalias ri, Vie Como 4, £-20006 Pinttello (Milano)

In France: Please write co Penguin Books Lid, 39 Rue de Monimorency,
F-75003 Parts

In Japan: Please write to Longman Penguin Japan Co Lid, Yamaguchi Burldmeg,
2-12-9 Kanda Jtmbocho, Chiyoda-Ku, Tokyo £07

227-228

town and investigate the tower you saw earlier, turn
to 14I.

227
With only a brief interval for some much-needed sleep
(restore 2 STAMINA points), you continue westwards
until you come to the Burning Balrog Inn. The place is
empty but far the landlord and three Femphrey war-
fiors, veterans of the War of the Four Kingdoms, judg-
ing by the noise they are making, the veterans have
already had too much to drink. And if this isn’t bad
enough, they are sitting with a Man-Orc assassin who,
seeing you, shouts, ‘I fawt I cud smell sumfink. It’s a Gal-

lantreean,’
One of the veterans drawls, ‘Pah, lezz kick the backstab-

bin’ worm outta here.’

The oldest of the veterans stares at you intently, then
growls. ‘It is you! We fought in the Battle of Mallagash,
and you gave me this!’ He lifts up his left arm; in place
of his hand is a metal hook Now you remember; he
was 4 sergeant-at-arms who would have killed you, but
tor the severe wound you inflicted on him. Stirred by
the troublesome Man-Orc, the veterans are growing
angrier by the second, Will you ignore them and Zo to
the bar (turn to 3), ask the veterans why they are with a
Man-Ore (turn to 287), or attack the assassin, before he
goads the veterans on to violence (tum to 265)?

\,
pts | oo

>

ss

228
Not a single one of the circus folk hears or sees you as
you imitate a desert lizard and wriggle towards them.

56-57
56

The door opens into a small storage room. Among the
earthenware and bric-a-brac, you find two meals of
Provisions, which you may take. Restore 1 LUCK point
for this chance find. Now you will have to go back into
the hall and choose another route. Will you go north
(turn to 374), south (turn to 68), or east (turn to 89)?

57

The crowd's reaction to your gamble is good — in fact
it is too good, and you find yourself in the middle of a
ereed-crazed crush. City guards race forward to break up
the stampede, a stampede which threatens to squash
you, If you like, you can call out to the guards for help
and give yourself up (turn to 199). Otherwise, you will
have to take your chances among a heap of clawing
and grasping bodies. If you choose the latter course,
rol! one die and deduct from your sTAMINA that many
points

If you survive, you may sneak out through one of the
square’s now unguarded exits. Will you escape over the
green and pleasant grounds of a small temple, bordered
by a low wall (turn to 164), or run down a narrow lane
(turn to 118)?

58-60

58
Cupping your hands, you scoop the water up to your
lips. The magical liquid makes your head spin as it takes
immediate effect, Roll one die and follow the instruc-
tions in the table below.

Roll Effects
1 Nothing happens
2 Restore 2 STAMINA points
3 Restore 1 LUCK and 2 STAMINA points
4 Restore 1 LuCK and 4 STAMINA points
5 Restore 2 LUCK and 4 STAMINA points
6 Restore 1 SKILL, 2 LUCK and 4 STAMINA points

You may drink from the well only once before moving
on, either northwards (tum to 349) or back to the
south (turn to 44).

59

You open the safe and find 10 Gold Pieces, which you
may take (add them to your hoard on your Adventure
Sheet), You are about to go over to examine the book
when you hear a noise outside. You decide you had
better leave the wagon before you are discovered,
Return to 2§5 and choose an option you have not
picked before

60
Mere streets away from the huge East Gate, you come
upon a rarity on the streets of Royal Lendle: a rubbish
