* FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS

Over 13 million copies sold worldwide!

Hunted across Time and Space!

The:Aleph is a prize beyond all measure, amys-
terious slobe fram another dimension which
can be used to harness all the forces of the
Universe — und it has been entrusted co YOU
for safekeeping. YOU must use its unearthly
powers 80 transport you through the many
Spheres of the Multiverse and return it to its
rightful pwner Bue beware — the nightmarish
Spectral Stalkers also want the Aleph, and they
are on your trail!

Part story, part game, this is a book in which

YOU become the hero! Two dice, a pencil and

an eraser are all you need, YOU decide which

routes to take, which dungers to risk andl which
foes to fight

: yer (lasteenin boy fps Mill,

————_——

J

Bie JACKSON AND
i@LIVINGSTONE |

NOSMOVI JAALS

ANOLSONIAIT NVI AGNY

SIIY[EIS [eIIDadS
PUFFIN BOOKS

SPECTRAL STALKERS

The Aleph is a prize beyond all measure, a mysterious artefact from
another dimension which can be used to harness all the forces of the
Universe, Within the swirling globe one may gaze at an exact copy of all
the planes of existence — or perhaps at existence itself!

Now, whether by fate or fortune, the Aleph has arrived in Khul and
been entrusted to YOU for safekeeping. YOU must use its unearthly
powers to transport you through the dimensions and overcome the
many obstacles in your way until you can retum it to its rightful owner,
But beware, for others also seek to own the Aleph — especially the
terrifying Spectral Stalkers!

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you need to embark on this
astonishing adventure, which is complete with its elaborate combat
system and a score sheet to record your progress.

Many dangers lie ahead and your success is by no means certain,
Powerful adversaries are ranged against you, and it's up to YOU to
decide which route to follow, which dangers to risk and which foes to
fight. Nothing has prepared you for an adventure like this!

Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks

1, THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP
MOUNTAIN
2 THE CITADEL OF CHAOS
3. THE FOREST OF DOOM
4 STARSHIP TRAVELLER
5. CITY OF THIEVES
6 DEATHTRAP DUNGEON
7. LAND OF THE LIZARD KING
& SCORPION SWAMP
9 CAVERNS OF THE SNOW WITCH
10. HOUSE OF HELL
11. TALISMAN OF DEATH
12. SPACE ASSASSIN
13. FREEWAY FIGHTER
14. TEMPLE OF TERROR
15. THE RINGS OF KETHER
16, SEAS OF BLOOD
17, APPOINTMENT WITH FE. A.
18 REBEL PLANET
19, DEMONS OF THE DEEP
20, SWORD OF THE SAMURAI
21 TRIAL OF CHAMPIONS
22. ROBOT COMMANDO
23 MASKS OF MAYHEM
24 CREATURE OF HAVOC
25 BENEATH NIGHTMARE CASTLE
26, CRYPT OF THE SORCERER
27 STAR STRIDER
28 PHANTOMS OF FEAR
29 MIDNIGHT ROGUE
30. CHASMS OF MALICE

Steve Jackson's SORCERY!
1 THE SHAMUTANTI HILLS
2. KHARE - CITYPORT OF TRAPS

31 BATTLEBLADE WARRIOR

22 SLAVES OF THE ABYSS

33. SKY LORD

34 STEALER OF SOULS

35 DAGGERS OF DARKNESS

36 ARMIES OF DEATH

37. PORTAL OF EVIL

33. VAULT OF THE YAMPIRE

39. RANGS OF FURY

40, DEAD OF NIGHT

41. MASTER OF CHAOS

42. BLACK VEIN PROPHECY

43 THE KFEP OF THE LICH-LORD

44, LEGEND OF THE SHADOW
WARRIORS

45, SPECTRAL STALKERS

46 TOWER OF DESTRUCTION

47, THE CRIMSON TIDE

48 MOONRUNNER

49. STEGE OF SARDATH

50. RETURN TO FIRETOP MOUNTAIN

51 PLAGUE OF THE UNDEAD

3. THE SEVEN SERPENTS
4. THE CROWN OF KINGS

FIGHTING FANTASY — The Lntroductory Role-Playing Game
THE RIDDLING REAVER - Four Thrilling Adventures

Fighting Fantasy Novels
THE TROLLTOOTH WARS
DEMONSTEALER
SHADOWMASTER

The Advanced Fightmg Fantasy System

TITAN - The Fighting Fantasy World

DUNGEONEER - An Introductian to the World of Role-Playing Games

Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone

present

RAL
ae 1m

by Peter Darvill-Evans
Illustrated by Tony Hough

a

PUFFIN BOOKS

PUFFIN HOOKS

Pultlished by the Panguin Groep
Penguit Rooks Lad 27 Wrights Late. bLamdon Wk STZ, linglast
Merguitt Gocvks USA feet 995 Hudson Strept, Mee York. Now York HOt, LSA
Pengule Hooks Australie Led, Ringwied, Victor, Avstralia
Penge looks Canada Lad, 10 Akeorn Avénur, Toroeta, Geter, Curade MAY tHe
Punguis Hooks (NZ) Lud, {e3-190 Wromtt Rowil, Aghlaod 10 New Zralasetl

Penguin Books Lid, Registered Offices: Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England

First published 199]
3579 1086

Concept copyright © Steve Jackson and Lan Livingstone, 199]
Text copynght © Peter Darvill-Evans, 1991
illustrations copyright © Tony Hough, 1991

Map copyrighi © Leo Hartas, 199]
All rights reserved

The moral right of the auihor has heen asserted

Printed in England by Clays Ltd. Si Ives plc
Filmsel in 12713 Palauing

Escopt iui (he Usted Sustes of Amerios. this Sook js world mutyoct
te the conudinmn thet It shall oc ty ery oF trode oe pitherwise, de bent,
ro-mokd, Mhierd imal, ox octetrwine circulited miikowt the publisher's
Delne Gotvernt 1 amy fom of Pisuallity ait Corer withers (eum hat ee
whicd it ie pubtlahed and wittiul 4 emeky cOnMisoe mtadiog thre
COUdi teow Beung tinpused on ihe auhwequent purchaser

CONTENTS

ADVENTURING AMONG THE SPHERES
7

ADVENTURE SHEET
14

BACKGROUND
16

SPECTRAL STALKERS
18

bey amust ylleck

Vs
i
‘

ADVENTURING AMONG THE
SPHERES

You are a warrior, a hardy adventurer with remarkable
skills. You will use dice to determine your exact attri-
butes, and on pages 14-15 there is an Adventure Sheet
on which you will record your scores and the incidents
of your adventure. Use a pencil, or make photocopies
of the Adventure Sheet, as you will almost certainly need
to make more than one attempt to escape the relentless
Spectral Stalkers and prevent the enslavement of the
Universe

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one die. Add 6 to the score and enter the total! in
the sKitL box on the Adventure Sheet.

Roll two dice. Add 12 to the score and enter the total
in the STAMINA box

Roll one die. Add 6 to the score and enter the total in
the Luck box,

These are your Inifial scores and you must keep a
permanent record of them, All of your scores may
change during your adventure, but they will exceed
your fittiai amounts only on very rare occasions. You
must keep a record of all changes to your scores — so
write small or use a rubber

Your SKILL score reflects your expertise in combat,
your ability with weapons and your dexterity. Your
STAMINA is your health, fitness, and ability to survive
wounds and physical hardship. Your tuck score shows
how lucky you are.

Combat

During your adventure you will meet other people and
creatures. Some of them will attack you; others you will
decide to fight. The procedure for resolving battles is
described below,

SKILL and STAMINA scores are given in the text for
each opponent that you meet. Write these scores in the
first vacant Encounter Box on your Adventure Sheet.
Record also any special abilities or instructions that are
unique to this particular opponent. The sequence is
then:

t. Roll two dice for your opponent. Add the total to
his skILt score. This is his Attack Strength.

2. Roll two dice and add the total to your current
SKILL score. This is your Attack Strength.

3. If your Attack Strength is the higher, you have
wounded your opponent. Go to step 4. If your
opponent’s Attack Strength is higher, he has
wounded you. Go to step 5. If the Attack Strength
totals are the sare, you have avoided each other's
blows — start a new Combat Round from step 1.

4. Subtract 2 points from your opponent’s STAMINA.

You may be able to deduct additional points if you
use your LUCK (see below) or if you have a special
weapon

5. Subtract 2 points from your STAMINA. You may
use your Luck here to reduce the amount you lose
(see below).

6. Make sure you have recorded on the Adventure Sheet
all adjustments to STAMINA and LUCK scores.

7. Begin the next Combat Round, starting again at step
1. This sequence continues until either you or your
opponent has a STAMINA score of zero. If your
opponent's STAMINA score reaches zero, you have
killed him and can continue with your adventure. If
your STAMINA score reaches zero, you are dead;
you must start the adventure again from the begin-
ning, having rolled dice to create a new character,

Often you will have to fight more than one opponent
at the same time. Sometimes you will treat them as a
single opponent; sometimes you will be able to fight
them one at a time; and sometimes all of them will be
able to attack you while you defend yourself and attack
only one of them. Specific instructions will be given at
the appropriate point whenever you meet more than
one opponent.

Luck

There will be times when the success or failure of your
exploits will depend entirely on your tuck. You will be
instructed to Test your Luck, the procedure for which is

9
as follows: roll two dice. If the total score is equal to or
less than your Luck score, you are Lucky and the
outcome will be in your favour. If the total is higher
than your Luck score, you are Unlucky. Whatever the
outcome, you must deduct 1 point from your Luck
score. As you will see, the more you use your LUCK,
the less likely you are to be Lucky. There will be
occasions when you are able to recover some points of
LUCK, but unless specifically stated your score cannot
exceed its Initial value.

Using Luck in Combat

You can use your LucK in combat to inflict a particularly
serious wound, or to minimize a wound that has been
inflicted on you.

Whenever you wound an opponent, you may Test your
Luck: roll two dice; if the total score is equal to or less
than your Luck score, you have been Lucky. If the total
is higher than your LucK score, you are Unlucky.
Whatever the result, you must deduct 1 point from
your current Luck score. If you are Lucky, you have
inflicted a severe wound: deduct an extra 2 points from
your opponent’s sTAMINA. If you are Unlucky, you
have merely grazed him, and you deduct 1 /ess point of
STAMINA than normal.

If you have been wounded, you can Test your Luck in
exactly the same way. Remember to deduct 1 point from
your LUCK whatever the result. If you are Lucky, the
wound was only a glancing blow, and you can deduct 1
less point of sTAMINA than usual. If you are Unlucky,
the wound is serious: deduct 1 extra STAMINA point,

10

Restoring Skill and Stamina
Skill

Your skiLt will not change much during your adven-
ture, and you should change it only if given specific
instructions in the text. As SKILL is a measure of combat
prowess, it can be reduced by losing your weapon or
by the effects of poison, for instance; acquiring a magical
weapon could increase your sk1LL — but remember that
you can use only one weapon at a time!

Stamina —s -

Your sTAMINA will change frequently during your
adventure as you suffer wounds and then recover. At
various times you will be given opportunities to eat
meals and to acquire Provisions. Eating a meal normally
restores up to 4 points of STAMINA, although there
may be times, indicated in the text, when you get so
hungry you will need to eat a meal simply to avoid
losing STAMINA, You may eat only one meal at a time,
even though you may have more in your backpack.
Unless specifically stated, your sTAMINA may never
exceed its Initial score.

Leaving a Trail

Spectral Stalkers can detect the traces of psychic energy
that you leave in your wake as you travel between the
Spheres of the Macrocosmos. Each time that you pay
more than a flying visit to a location — if you stay long
enough to become involved in a fight, for instance —

It
you will leave a disturbance in the ether that will attract
the Spectral Stalkers. The more times you do this, the
easier it is for your shadowy pursuers to home in on
you.

Your TRAIL score shows how easy it is for the Spectral
Stalkers to find you. At the start of your adventure
your TRAIL score is zero — the Spectral Stalkers do not
even know of your existence, and have no chance of
finding you. At various points in your adventure, how-
ever, you will be instructed to add TRAIL points to your
score. Thus, the longer you spend on your travels, the
greater the risk that the Spectral Stalkers will find you.

At other times you will be instructed to Test your Trail
Score. The procedure for this is: roll three dice. If the
total rolled is equal to or more than your TRAIL score,
you remain undetected; if the total rolled is less than
your TRAIL score, you have been detected by the
Spectral Stalkers.

Often you will be told to add a point to your TRAIL
score and then to Test your Trail Score immediately after-
wards.

Getting Started

You start this adventure with no inkling of the heavy
task that is about to fall to you, and no premonition
that in the days to come you will be pursued by a pack
of nightmarish creatures more inexorable than Blood-
hounds and more vicious than Wolves. Instead, you are
carefree: you have no employment and your backpack

12

contains Provisions for only two more meals, but your
purse is full and you have the world to go adventuring
in. Your trusty sword is, as ever, at your side.

It is recommended that you make notes and draw a
map as you explore. There is a way to succeed that
involves little risk, even if you start with low Inifial
scores. There are many more routes that lead to failure
and unpleasant fates.

Start with the Background section; then go on to the
section headed 'with the number 1. After that go to
whichever numbered section you are instructed to

a5
ADVENTURE SHEET ENCOUNTER BOXES

SKILL STAMINA LUCK Skill= Skitl= Skilf=
Initial Initial Initial
Skilf= Stamina= Luck= Stamina= Stamina= Stamina=
WEAPONS TRAIL Skill= Skitl= Shitfi=
Initial
Trait=0 Stamina= Stamine= Stamina=
POTIONS AND MAGICAL ITEMS GOLD Skilt= Skilf= Skill=
Stantina= Stamina= Stamina=
OTHER OBJECTS AND PROVISIONS Skilf= Skill= Skill=
EQUIPMENT REMAINING ; . ;
Stamina= Stamina= Stamina=

BACKGROUND

‘Signs and portents,’ wheezes the old fortune-teller in a
voice that seems to rumble from within the folds of his
moth-eaten cloak. ‘There are signs and portents here. The
cards will speak the truth for you, young warrior. I
feel it.’

You are beginning to wish that you had never ventured
into this dark and smelly tent. The raucous shrieks and
music and laughter of the fairground sound dim and
distant, even though the grubby canvas of the fortune-
teller’s tent is the only thing that separates you from
the merry-making crowds. You could be outside in the
sunshine enjoying the Midsurnmer Fair instead of wait-
ing in half-darkness for this ancient half-Elven charlatan
to start his card-reading act.

A gust of cold wind swirls around you without disturb-
ing the smoke that clogs the air. Suddenly apprehensive,
you shiver. The fortune-teller seems momentarily
alarmed, but then clears his throat and begins to turn
over the cards, one by one.

Each disc of thick parchment bears a faded picture. The
first few are familiar — a shining gemstone, a tramp with
his meagre belongings: tied in a bundle, a skeleton
wielding a scythe. The fortune-teller’s explanation is
equally ordinary — the usual patter about a great trea-
sure and going on a long and difficult journey, and the

16

threat of terrible danger. Since when did your life as an
adventurer contain anything but treasure, travel and
danger? You regret giving the old half-Elf a Gold Piece;
you now have only 8 Gold Pieces left in your purse
and there are many more stalls to visit before nightfall

Then you notice that the fortune-teller has stopped
mumbling. He is staring at the card he has just tured
over. His hands are shaking. The face of the new card is
completely blank and slightly luminous. At last he
manages to stutter: ‘Tt — it isn’t possible! None of these
cards is blank! But if this is so... This card represents
your destination, soldier. ] fear for you.

‘Why? What does it mean? Where is my destination?’

‘Not in Khul,’ wails the fortune-teller. ‘Nor anywhere in
this world. You will travel further than any man can
imagine, with a perilous burden and a dreadful pursuit
at your heels Go from here. A storm approaches.
Prepare yourself: you will be plucked from this world
ere long.’

You step outside to find dark clouds racing across the
sky. The crowds are dispersing and the fairground folk
are struggling to secure their tents against a rising gale.
The paths across the fields to Neuburg are thronged
with townspeople scurrying home. You decide to
shelter from the storm in the forest, and you set out
alone towards the dark line of trees . . .

Turn to 1

17
I
You hurry towards the forest beneath the billowing
black clouds that have turned daylight into dusk. There
is a sudden flash of blinding light. You expect a crash of
thunder, but instead there is an eerie silence, Then you
see something falling out of the sky, tumbling and
fluttering like an autumn leaf. It lands with a thump on
the path ahead and you run towards it.

It is a winged creature unlike any that you have seen
before, and it is badly hurt. Its silver, gossamer-thin
wings and its bright robes have been torn into tattered
shreds; its small humanoid body bears grievous wounds.
It stirs as you approach, and stares at you with huge
round eyes. With its last reserves of strength it holds
out to you the bundle that it carries, and tries to speak:
‘Stranger! I am dying ... I have failed. Take this burden
from me! Take it! Archmage Globus ... he must ...
Too late! [ am dying. Take it! ... and beware the
Spectral Stalkers! . ..’

The creature dies. You pick up the bundle. It seems to
be a hard ball wrapped in a cloth. Will you put the
bundle in your backpack and continue on your way
(tum to 207), or unwrap the cloth and look at its
contents (turn to 316)?

2
You pull the Aleph from your backpack, but you are
appailed to see that, instead of containing an infinite
array of glowing images, it is grey and cloudy. As you
stare into the sphere, the shifting forms congeal into
the indistinct likeness of a face - and a voice thrusts

3

itself into your mind. ‘Ah! So you are here!’ gloats the
voice. “You have brought the prize to me. How consider-
ate. Now you cannot escape!’ Add 1 point to your
TRAIL score, Hurriedly you stuff the Aleph back into
your pack; it seems that your travels will end, one way
or another, on this world. You decide to keep moving;
will you walk towards the water (tum to 92) or the
plains {turn to 116)?

You cannot hope to prevail against all the citizens of
this city. You fight with all your strength, but this only
increases the determination of the Elves to capture you
alive for sacrifice to their deity Vacavon. It also increases
your TRAIL score by 1 point. Eventually you are sur-
rounded, subdued, and given several sharp kicks as a
reward for causing so much trouble. Deduct 2 points of
STAMINA, and hun to 301

4-5

4

Apart from a few Silica Serpents writhing in glittering
coils high in the turquoise sky, you don’t see a single
creature during your long trek to the curtain of cliffs
that supports the highest level of the Ziggurat World.
The path becomes steeper and steeper until it is zig-
zagging up the precipitous wall of rock — and finally it
peters out altogether. You stop to rest. If you have
Provisions, you can eat one meal and restore up to 4
points of sTAMINA. Then you resume the ascent; from
here onwards you will be rock-climbing. If you are
wearing Ophidian armour, turn to 321; if not, turn to
254.

5
The Spectral Stalker has failed to find you. You heave a
sigh of relief as the hideous creature shakes its great
head in frustration and begins to dissolve into the air.
Night is falling, and a cold wind is blowing across the
wild countryside. There is nowhere except the inn to
shelter for the night; if you decide to go in, turn to
222. If you would rather use the Aleph to transport
you elsewhere, turn to 283.

CO OQ), OO ee ——————————eeare
6-8

STS he eae 3) :
a ¥. ie ny F . The tinkling of the bell is lost in the oppressive silence.
Ay E f Bey etalkda =p los: You wait but nothing happens. You are about to walk

away when a figure rises behind the desk and huffs a
cloud of smoke. You jump back in surprise and alarm; a
female Dragon is glaring down at you over a pair of

wire-framed spectacles.

‘Yes? Well, what do you want? This is the Library in
Limbo, you know, and no place for warriors and other
troublemakers.’

* “A Aan)

=e =

" 7

——-

Will you show the Dragon the sphere, and ask her
what it is (turn to 395), or ask her if she has heard of
Globus and the Spectral Stalkers (tum to 93)? Or will
you attack her (turn to 340)?

fh ORncnalag ff
Lo 4'. a
“ tt eee | itl

“

S| éemace-=

hs]

7

You heave a sigh of relief as the Spectral Stalker
dissolves into the air, but you have little time to reflect
on your good fortune. The Black Shadows return, in
greater numbers than ever. With no energy to resist
their attack, you are soon overwhelmed, and you feel
sharp fangs piercing your flesh. The venom works
quickly and you drift into unconsciousness. Turn to
2gI.

Nene

8
You strike the harp from the Minstrel’s hands. Jt con-
tinues to sing; but as the Minstrel turns to confront
you, his face contorted with rage, the harp’s melody
falters. The Zwinians begin to recover their wits, but
you have little time to notice them. Your attention is
fixed on the sword-wielding Minstrel, whose appear-

9

ance is changing even as he attacks you. His human
appearance was an illusion: he is really Barogkaz, a
large, powerfully-built Zwinian, and a formidable
swordsman,

BAROGKAZ SKILL 9

If you survive three rounds of combat, the citadel
guards join the fray and quickly subdue Barogkaz.
Frampa, Lord of the Citadel, is grateful for your help
but is still suspicious of you. He orders you to take the
Minstrel’s harp and leave his domain. You find a
secluded hollow outside the town walls and decide to
abandon the harp there before using the Aleph. Then,
to your surprise, the harp speaks: ‘Do not forsake me,
warrior, for I am no ordinary harp. I am the living spirit
of the Minstrel Cerod, whose form the foul beast
Barogkaz usurped. Even if you have no skill in music,
can help you.’ The harp will halve the skit of any
humanoid opponent you fight; but, because it will not
fit inside your pack, you must reduce your skILL by
one point while you have it. If you decide to keep the
harp, record it on your Adventure Sheet; whether or not
you keep it, your next step is to use the Aleph — turn to

gI.

STAMINA 13

Necromon’s eyes begin to glint with a manic light.
‘You promised to help me, he whispers. “You gave
your word, I need your life force. You must let me
have it!’ He advances on you, pulling a massive cleaver

from the rack of knives beside his butcher's block. You
try to retreat towards the door, but the white-coated

Io

madman lunges past you and blocks your escape You
decide to make for the other door — the one through
which Necromon entered the room — but while you are
backing towards it you will have to fight.

NECROMON SKILL 7

This should be an easy fight to win, particularly as
Necromon seems not to be concentrating on using his
cleaver; but than is because he is concentrating on you.
After each Attack Round, roll two dice; if the total is
greater than your SKILL, you find your eyes inexplicably
drawn to his — and you are suddenly convinced that
you should agree to whatever he asks you to do. Turn
to 249. If you evade his gaze, and survive the fight,
you find that after two rounds of combat you can
retreat through the door. As you do so, Necromon’s
cleaver gashes your shoulder — deduct 2 points of
STAMINA, and, if you are still alive, turn to 366.

STAMINA ©

10
The clouds part; sunlight floods the field. Drawenna’s
laughter fills the sky. ‘That's it!’ she shouts, That, my
brave pawn, my clever pawn, is exactly the right move.
Hold! Do not attack. Burud! Do you see the position?
My three warviors are in a triangle — and three of yours
are at their mercy. Victory is mine. Concede, and I'll
spare your wretched pawns.’

‘What do I care for mere pawns?’ Burud’s voice is
choked with anger. ‘Kill them or not, as you see fit. I
won't remain to watch. I'll find other ways to get you,
Drawenna!’ A gale swirls the clouds across the sky and

EEE e.g. mm
II

into the distance. You find that you can release your
hold on the pike; the metal armour slips from your
back. With the other surviving warriors you wander to
the edge of the field, where you find your backpack,
your clothes, and a purse containing 10 Gold Pieces
(note this on your Adventure Sheet).

Drawenna’s voice addresses you again. ‘1 would ask
you to stay, brave warrior,’ she says, ‘but I sense you

1) f Ww, vz os eae nie hose et ror} Se a ve are on a perilous quest and cannot linger. Take this!’ A
oer - golden ring falls out of the sky and lands at your feet;
aoe Ww igh th f x f se? you pick it up and marvel at the large blue gemstone

set into it. “The jewel is not only decorative,’ says
Drawenna’s voice. ‘If you are weary, or sorely wounded,
swallow the blue gem. It will restore your strength.’
You can use this item at any time, but only once;
swallowing the gem will restore up to 6 points of
STAMINA. Record it on your Adventure Sheet. Drawenna
is right: you have to move on. Tum to 124.

II

You step into a square room with walls lined with
sagging bookshelves. Precarious piles of books also
cover the floor and several tables. Seated at a desk is a
small humanoid in grey robes; two others are frantically
examining one of the piles of books and writing notes
on parchment scrolls. As you enter they all stop work-
ing and stare at you. The seated one squeaks at you:
‘Are you Admittance?’

‘No,’ you reply. ‘Of course not.’

‘Well come in, then, and we'll classify you.’ You

I2

approach his desk, and ask him what he and his
companions are doing. ‘We are Ranganathans,’ he
announces. ‘And we're classifying, of course. The ques-
tion is: what are you?’ You say you are a human, and a
warrior. ‘Well, which is it? Human or Warrior? You
can't be two things at once. You're obviously a difficult
case. And what do we do with difficult cases, boys?’

‘Take them to pieces! That’s the way to find out!’
chorus the other two Ranganathans, creeping towards
you and flexing their sharp fingers. Will you fight them
off (turn to 328), or look for a way out (turn to 74)?

12
You begin the ascent of the cliff, doggedly trudging up
the rocky path that winds back and forth across the
sheer face. Eventually, you have to pause to rest, Look-
ing down, you are almost overcome with vertigo when
you see how small and distant the landscape below you
has become. Looking upward, you see that you are
only a little more that half-way up the cliff-face. You
shrink against the rocks as a couple of glittering Silica
Serpents swoop past, then continue climbing, passing
through a layer of white clouds that leave droplets of
cold water all over you, before reaching a ledge where
you take another rest. If you have Provisions, you can
eat one meal and restore up to 4 points of STAMINA.
Two paths lead upwards from the ledge: one, to your
right as you face the cliff, zig-zags towards a craggy
part of the clifftop that is dotted with tall cylindrical
towers; the other climbs slowly to a distant and rela-

13-14

tively flat part of the clifftop. Will you take the path to
the right (turn to 130), or the left (turn to 146)?

13
As you run down the avenue you can hear the Golem
pounding after you, each stride shaking the ground.
With angry swipes of its mallet the monster destroys
the clay statues as it passes them. The Golem is
catching up with you; you veer off the path and on to
the bare hillside, hoping that as the hot sun dries the
monster's body it will begin to slow down. But now
the Golem is right behind you, its mallet smashing
boulders to your right and left as you dodge the blows.

Roll one die. The result is the number of times that you
have to dodge the mallet-blows. For each dodge, roll
two dice; each time that the result is higher than your
SKILL you are struck by shards of rock and must deduct
2 points of sTAMINA. However, because the Golem is
at last beginning to slow, you may deduct one point
from the second dice-roll, two from the third, three
from the fourth, and so or* If you survive the mallet-
blows, you are rewarded by the sight of the Golem
slowing down as the sun’s rays dry its body. After a
few minutes, it is completely motionless: a clay statue
that will remain lifeless on the hillside until the next
rainstorm. You make your way back to the cave in the
cliff-face; turn to 263.

e |
The descent is difficult, and by the time you reach the
base of the tower nearly every one of your little group

eee

T5

of ex-prisoners has almost slipped from the narrow
stairway at least once. Now, huddled in the darkness at
the bottom of the ravine, you discuss your next move.
All of the Elves, Vaskind and Mantirs want to return to
their homes, and that entails taking the long zig-zag
path down the cliff to the lower level of the Ziggurat
World, You agree to accompany them to the top of the
cliff. Turn to 333.

15

You walk for some distance along a roughly-hewn
tunnel, and then, after stooping under an arch, you find
that the tunnel divides. You are standing between three
doorways; in the dim light you can see that only one of
them has the circle and triangle symbol carved into its
lintel. You face this doorway and, looking through it,
you can see daylight at the end of a long tunnel; the
other two tunnels, with unmarked doorways, are to
your right and left. Will you go straight on, towards
the daylight (turn te 30); to your right (tum to 367);
or to your left (turn to 206)?

16-17

16

You are too slow. The Tyrant plucks the Aleph from
your fingers and immediately begins to disappear into
it. You can only watch in horror as the sphere expands,
and then contracts to a point — and disappears. You
have lost the Aleph. You are stranded on this barren
world where, year after year, the dwindling Feliti bring
offerings to your castle and perform half-forgotten
rituals in their overgrown garden. You are the new
Tyrant. Perhaps, after a few centuries, a new Champion
will appear on the stone table in the Feliti garden . . .

17 ;
Although there is no sound — even the flowers have
stopped tinkling throughout the Crystal Garden — you
can hear the Spectral Stalker's scream of rage reverberate
inside your mind as it dissolves into the air. It knew
that it had almost found you, and you know it too. You
step over the Silica Serpent and hurry towards the
Vitreous Citadel. Turn to 436.

ee
18-19

18

Grondel convinces the priest that you have proof of
the existence of other worlds. The two Elves watch in
fascination as you unwrap the glowing sphere and
reveal its vista of multitudinous lands and planets.
Grondel stares open-mouthed in amazement; the priest
reels backwards, overwhelmed by this shock to the
foundations of his beliefs. You cover the Aleph and
pack it away, but a little damage has already been done
— add 1 point to your TRAIL score. Grondel promises to
reward you for your help, and he leads you to his
house. As you eat the meal he provides for you — it has
almost no taste, but it restores up to 4 points of
STAMINA — Grondel rummages in chests and cupboards
until] he finds a silver ring with a small stone in a
cumbersome setting. “This is not the most attractive of
jewels,’ he chuckles, ‘but it is very useful. If you twist
the setting — like this ~ the Ring of Light will provide
illumination. Such items are valuable here in the dark-
ness, but I hope that you will find it of some worth in
your travels,’ You assure Grondel that the ring will
indeed be very useful, and you slip it on to a finger.
The old Elf starts to busy himself with plans for an
expedition to leave the cave and you take your leave,
Turn to 377

19
Your pulse pounds in your head as the water crushes
you. A trickle of precious air escapes from your clenched
lips as you fight to remain conscious, your body rising
slowly through the icy waters. Roll four dice; if the
total is less than your current STAMINA, turn to 194; if

20

the total is equal to, or greater than, your sTAMINA,
turn to 84.

20
There is nothing else of interest in the courtyard and
you consider which of its four doorways you will leave
through. There is a portal in each of the four walls; you
tum to face the doorway which has the circle and
triangle symbol carved above it. Which way will you

go:

Through the door you are facing? Turn to 2§7
The door behind you? Turn to 329
The door to your right? Tum to 335
The door to your left? Tum to 78

See
|
21-22

21

You are in an unlit tunnel. You can see nothing, and can
feel only the cool, smooth stones on both sides. You
grope towards the indistinct sound of chanting voices.
The chanting becomes louder, urgent and frenzied. You
take one more step, the floor gives way beneath your
feet, and you are sliding helplessly down a chute and
into flickering light. You fand on a dais of rune-carved
flagstones and, as you pick yourself up, you see that
you have emerged from the mouth of a gigantic stone
skull that forms one wall of the torchlit hall. The voices
are suddenly silent. You turn to find yourself looking
up into the fiery eye-sockets of another skull — but this
one is the living face of a giant warrior-priest, who
howls with joy as he thanks his grim deity.

‘As I foretold, mighty Glund, you have given us an
omen. This creature will be our victory sacrifice. [,
Syzuk the Devastator, will shed its lifeblood at the
battle’s end on an altar of a thousand vanquished foes.
Warriors! Can you now doubt our victory? To arms!’

Two soldiers begin to climb on to the platform. Will
you fight them (turn to 139), wait for them to capture
you (turn to 85), or try to escape by re-entering the
mouth of the stone skull (turn to 348)?

LG Py By the time you reach the foot of the rock face, the
Ophidians are already little more than black dots in the
distance and their captive Silica Serpent is a shimmering
sliver of light hanging in the air beside them. You are
relieved to find that the surface of the rock is not as

eS | Sn

{fs

=

aoe ANN WOLCPRS,

23

smooth as it first appeared: there are crevices and
outcrops for your feet and hands. You begin the long
ascent, pulling yourself upwards centimetre by precari-
ous and painful centimetre. This climb will test both
your strength and your endurance. Roll six dice. If the
total is equal to, or less than, the sum of your sxILL and
STAMINA, turn to 218; if the total is greater than the
sum of your SKILL and STAMINA, turn to 86.

23

As Semeion leads you back to his courtyard gardens he
gives you some last words of advice. ‘Go to the Zig-
gurat World of the Archmage Globus,’ he says thought-
fully. ‘Whether danger or good fortune await you
there, the Ziggurat World is the place where your
travelling must end. The Aleph will take you there. Be
on your guard at all times.’ You thank the old man, and
ask him if he can provide you with more substantial
assistance — food, for instance. Semeion shakes his
head, ‘I do not require sustenance such as your body
needs,’ he says, ‘for this shape in which you see me is
but one of many forms. From my storehouse of wisdom,
however, I offer these two further thoughts: catch the
fisher in his own nets; and set the hunter's hounds upon
the hunter.’ You manage to sound grateful for these
homilies as you take the Aleph from your backpack. If
you have no weapon you can ask Semeion if he can
provide one — turn to 182; otherwise, you lose yourself
in the Aleph’s swarming worlds — tum to 234.

24-25

a4

The cramped cabin at the back of the wagon is full of
magician’s props and theatrical costumes, jumbled boxes
and crates — and, imprisoned in a cage suspended from
the ceiling, a young woman who must be the Baron’s
missing daughter. You hear the crack of a whip and the
whinnying of horses, and with a jolt the wagon begins
to move, accelerating rapidly over the cobblestones as
the Conjuror and his assistant make good their escape
from the town. You unstrap your backpack and search
for something to help you force open the cage’s sturdy
lock, but without success. ‘The Conjurer has the key,’
the Baron’s daughter says in an excited voice, ‘and I
expect he'll come soon to check that I’m still a prisoner!’
You fear she is correct. Will you wait for the Conjuror’s
entrance (turn to 137), or use the Aleph to transport
you away from this place (turn to 63)?

25

‘Why do you hesitate?’ the Archmage demands, his
voice growing dark and cold. ‘Do you dare to defy me?
You do not know the extent of my powers. I have
servants, demons from beyond this plane of existence,
who will destroy you. The Spectral Stalkers will come
at my bidding. Give me the Aleph — or prepare to die!’
You have no doubt that you would be powerless
against the otherworldly might of the Spectral Stalkers.
If you decide that you have no choice but to hand the
Aleph to Globus, turn to 338; if you insist on keeping
it, turn to 172,

es

26

26

After walking in the darkness of the tunnel for some
time, you grope your way round a comer and see light
beyond a doorway ahead. Ducking through the stone
portal you find yourself in a small, square chamber with
a doorway set in each of the four walls. A shaft of
brilliant sunlight streams from high above on to a
glowing boulder set into the tiled Moor, The boulder
emanates a fierce heat and within seconds you find the
temperature unbearable. You decide to leave quickly,
but you have time to read the words which are carved
above the doorways:

Symbols can reveal that which has been
And that which is.

Only you know what you intend.

No man knows what will happen.

You face the circle and triangle symbol, and must
choose which doorway you will leave through:

The door you are facing? Turn to 224
The door behind you? Tur to 101
The door to your left? Turn to 367
The door to your right? Turn to 187

27-29

27

You turn and stare in surprise. In front of you there is a
doorway which you are sure was not there a minute
ago, It looks solid enough; on its stone lintel is engraved
the word EXIT. It seems that you have found the way
out — or perhaps it has found you! Anything would be
better than these endless corridors, you decide, and
walk into the black shadow in the doorway. Turn to
185.

28

You press yourself against the wall while you reach for
the silver dagger, feeling drops of the Black Shadow’s
foul-smelling venom fall on to your shoulders. When
the monster's fangs are only centimetres above your
head you thrust the dagger upwards. Although your
blow misses its target, the Black Shadow hisses in alarm
and tries to scuttle backwards. You thrust a second time
and the creature screeches as it loses its grip on the
stones and flutters downwards like a torn rag in a gust
of wind. Restore 1 point of Luck. Treading as quickly
as you dare, you continue up the crumbling steps. Tum
to 318.

29
You breathe a sigh of relief as the awful shape dissolves
into the air. Add 1 point to your TRAIL score. You
look about you. The landscape of woodland and mea-
dows is dominated by a wall of impossibly tall, sheer
cliffs that extend across half the horizon, and thin,
cylindrical towers dot the crags atop the cliffs. In the
hazy distance, far beyond and above the clifftops, you

eo SL ll
30-31

can just make out an even higher flat-topped mountain.
Beyond a few floating fluffy clouds, and a few winged
creatures that swoop amongst them, the sky is sharply
divided into two parts: an area of absolute darkness and
a turquoise area that glows with golden light. There is
no sun. You are on the Ziggurat World, a planet of
terraces enclosed within a half-dark, half-light sphere.
You hear the sound of approaching voices and re-
cognize the lilting note of a Wood Elf dialect. Will you
wait to see who is coming (turn to 370), or walk
towards the cliffs and take advantage of the rising land
to gain an overview of this level of the world (turn to
190)?

30

You take the Aleph from your backpack and hold it in
your hands. The countless vistas that swarm within the
shining sphere, tiny yet perfect in every detail, entrance
you immediately. Strange creatures, alien peoples,
towns, continents, planets, swirling stars and cloudy
galaxies swim before your eyes. You feel yourself being
enveloped by the Aleph, and transported within it. Roll
one die. If you roll an even number, turn to 135; if you
roll an odd number, turn to 145.

31

The doorway says nothing more, but after a moment of
ominous calm, the stone slab suddenly starts to vibrate
furiously, while at the same time lashing from side to
side and rocking up and down. You realize that you
will be shaken from the bridge and into the moat
within seconds: your only hope is to jump to safety.

32-33

Will you try to leap back to the bank (turn to 279), or
forwards, into the mouth of the doorway (turn to 311)?

32

Now it is the turn of Burud’s black warriors. They do
not even bother to consult each other: you hear a noise
and turn to see the black pawn on E3 move to F3. You
are caught between two black warriors and no matter
how much you turn and tum again, your armour cannot
protect you against altack from two opposite sides.
You lose the game.

The silence does not last. You hear the sound of many
feet coming through the grass. At first you fear a
stampede of Colepods, but the strange beings that
canter through the grass to surround you are Mantirs,
the owners and shepherds of the Colepod herds. Like a
Colepod, a Mantir resembles a giant insect, with a
shell-like carapace and antennae waving from his fore-
head; but he walks upright, on only four legs, his
foremost pair of limbs serving as arms. Each Mantir
carries a spear and wears headgear as protection from
the heat that beats upon the shadeless plains, and each
has fashioned the knob of bone at the end of his tail
into a spiked weapon of devastating effect. The Mantir
herdsmen are as astounded by your appearance as they
are grateful for the safe recovery of their rogue Colepod.
Their leader silences their endless twittering comments
and presents you with a reward — a large slice of
delicious honeycake which can restore up to 4 STAMINA
points. He then addresses you, speaking in a fluting

34

voice that you can barely understand. He asks what
you are doing here on the plains; and, more importantly,
whether you are a friend or an enemy of Globus the
Archmage who, says the Mantir, is the ruler of all the
peoples on this world. Will you say that you are
Globus’s friend (turn to 266), or his enemy (turn to

304)?

34
You have no time to select any special item from your

backpack; you must fight with the weapon you have at
hand. The figures advance, making no attempt to avoid
your blows — and you realize quickly that your attack is
having no effect. The man and the woman are as
insubstantial as ghosts, but it seems they can harm you:
any weapon you are using becomes too cold to hold on
to, and you are obliged to drop it — delete it from your
Adventure Sheet and reduce your ski. by 2 points until
you find another weapon. If you are attacking with
your bare hands, your fist suffers frostbite as it passes
through the apparitions — lose 3 points from your
STAMINA. You furn and run. Turn to 262,

35

The Ophidians are momentarily confused: they can see
that their comrade has fallen and that you are now
unguarded, but they are reluctant to abandon the Silica
Serpent before it has been completely secured. In this
moment of uncertainty you make your escape. Leaping
from boulder to boulder you make for the high ground
above the gully in which the Ophidians trapped the
Serpent. You take a last look down into the ravine, and
note with satisfaction that the Ophidians have not set
off in pursuit. You make for the vast cliffs in the
distance. Turn to 4.

36-37

36

The Aleph’s floating images condense into the glowing
sphere that you hold cupped in your hands. You replace
it in your backpack and look up. You are standing on a
weathered stone table in the middle of an overgrown
garden. You know at once that you are not on your
home world of Titan: the sky shimmers like purple
velvet, and floating in it are a vast pale sun and clouds
like goose-down. The garden’s plants are like rambling
roses, but with dark leaves and aromatic magenta
blooms; they have invaded the lawns, climbed the crumb-
ling walls and embraced the carved figures of fabulous
beasts that sit scowling on pedestals. There is a gate of
wrought iron set into the wall and through it you see
sharp-peaked mountains and a grim fortress. The gate
opens; a procession enters the garden, The people are
humanoid: small, with pale green skin, and green hair
that rises in stiff spiral curls. They are wearing torn and
dirty rags, but their leader has a fur-trimmed robe. With
heads lowered they approach the stone table, and the
leader begins a solemn prayer for the return of his
people’s champion. At the end of the incantation, he
looks up — and his jaw drops in astonishment as he sees
you. Will you greet these people (turn to 251), or jump
from the table and run out of the garden (tur to 323)?

You hack away the remains of the net and scoop the
feebly-protesting being into your arms. He is very light
and you run quickly into the cover of the trees. No
Wood Elves or Silica Serpents see you: restore 1 point
of Luck. ‘You are as brave as you are foolhardy,’ says

a eee

38

the wounded creature as you lay him carefully on soft
grasses, ‘but I thank you once again. Had I been taken
by the Silica Serpents 1 would have had to leave this
body and I have many tasks to perform while | inhabit
it. I see you are curious about me. I am a Mercurial, one
of many messengers of — well, of those who guard the
ways between the many worlds of the Macrocosmos.
You have the Aleph, I know, And you must leave this
place immediatelyl You have walked into a trap: this
world is the home of Globus the Archmage. Globus has
been consumed by his desire for knowledge and power.
He is all evil now and will stop at nothing to acquire
the Aleph. Flee before the Silica Serpents arrive to
search for me, and flee from this world before Globus
learns that you are here.’ Spurred on by the Mercurial’s
words, you leave the trees and head towards the tower-
ing cliffs. Turn to 190.

38
You sit on the bed. As the light fades, the open doors
of the toy cupboards seem dark and threatening, like
the gaping mouths of monsters or the cave lairs of
ferocious beasts, The rocking-horse appears to be watch-
ing you with its glass eye; the stuffed bear looks a little
too realistic. Hanging on a hook is a jester’s outfit that
looks too large for a child; a goblin mask leers down at
you from a shelf; an almost life-size ballerina doll has a
smirk on her face; the little metal soldiers are holding
sharp-pointed spears. On a table next to the bed a
jointed clown doll sits inside a small glass sphere that
seems to rock gently from side to side. Your feeling of
relief is replaced by a sense of foreboding. If you have a

39-40

Glowcandle or a Ring of Light, turn to 87; if not, tum
fo 241.

You start to move cautiously towards the door at the
other end of the room, but the monster shuffles side-
ways to block your path, holding out its various limbs
as if demanding something from you. The sheer size of
the creature deters you from attacking it; you have the
impression that even if you succeeded in hacking off
whole sections of its motley body it would scarcely
notice the loss. You will have to make a dash for the
door and hope that the monster's flailing limbs fail to
strike you. Roll a die and add the result to your sKILL;
then roll three dice for the monster. If the monster's
total is higher than yours, the difference is the number
of points of STAMINA you lose as an assortment of fists
and claws batter and tear you during your lunge to-
wards the door, If you survive this onslaught you
succeed in reaching the door and slamming it behind
you. Turn to 258.

40
In the morning you throw open the shutters of your
room. The wind seems even colder now, carrying with
it flurries of sleet and hail, You collect your belongings
and wander downstairs. The inn is deserted. You search
the cupboards and cellars, and find a sword that seems
sharp and well-balanced. You can keep it if you need a
weapon. It is not until you are about to leave the inn
that you find the most interesting item: pinned to the
back of the door is the innkeeper’s licence, granted by

41

the Margrave of Neuburg — and dated four hundred
years after the date when you found the Aleph.

Shaking your head in disbelief, you step out into the
freezing rain. The door slams behind you and, shaken
from its bracket, the inn sign falls from the outside wall
and barely misses your head. You jump backwards and
look down at the crude painting of two ghostly figures.
The sign is circular, which seems unusual for an inn sign
and uncannily reminiscent of the shape of the Aleph. It
is small enough to fit into your backpack; perhaps you
should pick it up and take it with you (record it on your
Adventure Sheet if you do so). Khul, four hundred years
in your future, seems an unwelcoming place. You bid it
farewell and use the Aleph to go elsewhere. Turn to
283.

4l
The sound of the Colepod’s pounding hooves fades
into the distance, but the silence does not last. You hear
the sound of many feet coming through the grass. At
first you fear a stampede of Colepods, but the strange
beings that canter through the grass to surround you
are Mantirs, the owners and shepherds of the Colepod
herds. Like a Colepod, a Mantir resembles a giant
insect, with a shell-like carapace and antennae waving
from his forehead; but he walks upright, on only four
legs, his foremost pair of limbs serving as arms. Every
Mantir carries a spear and each has fashioned the knob
of bone at the end of his tail into a spiked weapon of
devastating effect. The Mantir herdsmen are so astound-
ed by your appearance that they forget all about their

42-43

rogue Colepod. Their leader silences their endless twit-
tering comments and addresses you in a fluting voice
that you can barely understand. He asks what you are
doing here on the plains and, more importantly, whether
you are a friend or an enemy of Globus the Archmage
who, he says, is the ruler of all the peoples on this
world, Will you say you are Globus’s friend (turn to
88), or his enemy (turn to 304)?

42

As soon as you step into the chamber at the heart of
the machine, the rods that surround you begin to pulse
with light and the room begins to fade. Then the
pulsing lights themselves grow dim and, although your
limbs are stationary and there is no sensation of speed,
you feel yourself being transported to another place.
Roll one die; if you roll:

1 or 2 Turn to 156
3 OT 4 Tur to 354
5 or 6 Turn to 234

43

After only a few steps along the tunnel, you tum a
comer and stumble down a flight of steep stairs. You
fall into a vast cavern illuminated by bonfires and full of
tethered Silica Serpents. Each Serpent is guarded by
several Ophidians and within seconds you are sur-
rounded by a dozen of the black-armoured beings. You
cannot hope to fight your way out so you surrender.
The Ophidians produce several lengths of strong rope
and bind your limbs securely. Turn to §3.

44745

44

You run beneath the canopy of branches, push through
the undergrowth and throw yourself into a leafy dell.
When you lift your head cautiously above the edge of
the hollow and look back towards the path, you see
that the monstrous shape has solidified and that a
second is beginning to condense out of the air beside it.
You watch with horrified fascination. These monsters
must be the Spectral Stalkers that the winged creature
spoke of; they are more hideous than the worst creations
of your most sinister dreams. Each has four long, spindly
legs, like those of a spider; a body, that is no more than
scaly skin drawn over sharp bones; a multitude of claw-
tipped arms; and, for a head, a mass of writhing tentacles
surmounted by two bulbous, faceted eyes like those of
insects. You cannot hope to defeat them in combat and
you dare not move, for fear that they will see you. You
slide back to the bottom of the dell — and remember the
bundle that the winged creature entrusted to you. Tum
to 316.

You tum to face the doorway which has a triangle
surmounted by a circle engraved on its lintel. Through
which of the doorways will you leave this room:

The door in front of you? Turn to 122
The door behind you? Turn to 224
The door to your right? Turn to 187
The door to your left? Turn to 247

46-47

46

The first blaring note is enough to terrify the creatures
that were about to attack you, scattering them like
‘eaves in a gust of wind. Although you have exhausted
the breath in your lungs, the noise from the Horn
continues, becoming even louder, its strident note
spreading across the barren landscape like a ripple
across a pond. With your hands pressed to your ears to
shut out the din, you see swarms of Black Shadows
issuing from towers in frantic confusion. At last the
Hom’s blast fades. There are no Black Shadows to be
seen — regain 1 point of Luck. You run from the tower
and scramble into the safety and darkness of the ravines,
Turn to 214.

47
The curtain is pulled aside and the Conjuror rushes past
you, grabbing the Were-cat and pulling her along
>ehind him. You join the crowd chasing the Conjuror
along the passage and on to the front platform of the
wagon, from which he and his assistant leap to the
cobbles of the town square. You watch as they make
off among the old houses of the town, pursued by the
more enthusiastic elements of the crowd. The Baron’s
daughter is found locked in a cage suspended from the
ceiling of the cabin at the back of the wagon, and is
quickly freed. The Baron, grateful for your intervention,
chrusts a purse into your hands: add 5 Gold Pieces to
your Adventure Sheet. When you leave the wagon,
however, you find that the townspeople are scattering
m terror — your exertions in fighting the Were-cat have
attracted the attention of your demonic pursuers. The

48

hideous shape of a Spectral Stalker is forming in the air
above the town square! Add 1 point to your TRAIL
score. There seems to be no choice but to use the
Aleph to leave this place. Turn to 63.

48

The thick folds of fungus are much less solid than they
looked, and your sword slices through them with ease.
You hack energetically at the repellent stuff and the
door is soon uncovered. In your haste, you fai] to
notice the clouds of tiny spores that are released from
the fungus by your frenzied attack and you have no
idea that the spores have landed all over your body
until your skin starts to itch maddeningly. You must
reduce your $k1Lt by 1 point because of the distraction
caused by this irritation. Scratching yourself, you pull
open the door, step through it, close it behind you and
set off along the passage beyond. Turn to 148.

49-50

49

Metron places the clay ball on a workbench. For many
minutes the Mapmaker is busy with rulers, protractors,
tubes of coloured fluids, and instruments with flashing
lights and glowing numbers. Then he consults books
from his library, draws a diagram of the ball and writes
pages of notes. ‘This is not a very interesting object,’
Metron says at last. ‘Tt is a hollow spheroid made from
a mixture of substances that one might find in ordinary
soil — full of impurities. It has been manufactured very
inexactly: the diameter varies by as much as three
sixty-fourths of a dronk. It cannot possibly serve any
useful function. Shall I dispose of it for you?’ You
hurriedly pick up the clay ball; when you shake it, it no
longer rattles. Metron has somehow removed the magic
that Mayrek the Potter gave to the ball (note this on
your Adventure Sheet). The ball still resembles the Aleph,
however, and you decide to keep it. You complain
bitterly to the Mapmaker that he has destroyed a
magical item. Turn to 375.

50
You begin to despair of defeating the Silica Serpent.
Add 1 point to your TRAIL score. You disengage from
the struggle and see that the Elves are returning and
more Silica Serpents are wheeling down from the skies.
You realize that you cannot hope to defeat this many
opponents and take to your heels. Under cover of the
trees, you turn to see that you are not being pursued:
the Elves and the Serpents are concerned only with the
captive in the net. You make your way towards the
towering cliffs — turn to 190.

51-52

51
You have arrived home — the continent of Khul. The
itees, the landscape, the very air is familiar You re-
cognize the countryside: you are standing on a road
along which you have marched many times. But every-
tning has changed. The fields are a wilderness of heath
and bracken, farm buildings ruined and almost smoth-
ered under brambles, The road has deteriorated into a
muddy, rutted track. You walk along it until you can
see the bridge over the River Gibelvatter — but the
bridge is broken, and only a stump of stonework re-
mains perched above the Mowing waters. On this out-
atop stands a new building, grim and battlemented.
However, you see a circular inn sign swinging from a
bracket on the wall and lights flicker behind the arrow-
slits in the upper storey. A heavily-built man is standing
outside the only door; as you approach he draws his
sword. Will you prepare to fight him (turn to 278), or
will you raise your open hands in a gesture of peace
iturn to 319)?

52
As the Feliti leader finishes his incantation, the heap of
soft petals begins to glow. ‘Now we must wait until
night,’ he says, ‘and then I will explain our plight. If I
may say so, Lord, you look weary. May we refresh
you?’ Without waiting for your reply, he orders several
of the Feliti to bring you sweetmeats and wine. You
taste the food: it seems wholesome. ‘We will leave you
now, Lord,’ says the robed Feliti, ‘and I will return after
dark to speak with you. Have no fear. The eyes of the
Tyrant cannot penetrate the thickets of the Etemal

53

Garden.’ You decide to follow this advice and concen-
trate on eating (restore up to 4 points of sTAMINA).
When you look up from your meal, the sky is darkening
— and in the place where there was a heap of flowers
there is now only a glittering gem. The Jewel of Sleep
has been created. You pick it up and see that it is a
hollow crystal containing a purple liquid. If you want
to take it and then use the Aleph to travel away from
this world, note the Jewel on your Adventure Sheet and
turn to 365. If you wait in the garden, turn to 334.

53
The Ophidians dump you on the floor of the cavern
between two Silica Serpents who are as tightly bound
as you are. Each has a chain round its neck which leads
to an iron ring set into the cave wall, its wings held
against its sinuous body by straps of leather and a
muzzle enclosing most of its huge, scaly head. You
endure the discomfort of your ropes as patiently as you
can, and at last the Ophidians cease to watch over you
and instead congregate at the far end of the cavern. As
you are now unguarded, and neaf the entrance of the
cavern, you think you could creep'away undetected — if
only you could break free of your bonds. You notice
that the muzzles of the Silica Serpents are designed to
avoid the creatures’ corrosive venom — with the result
that drops of it fall freely from the Serpents’ jaws and
burn hollows in the stone floor of the cavern. You
wriggle across the rocks until you are lying beneath one
of the Serpents’ heads. Drops of venom fall on to your
body; the liquid burns through the ropes, but it also
burns you! Lose 3 points of STAMINA. If you survive,

54-55

you can shrug off your bonds; and, taking with you a
long coil of rope, you creep from the cavern. At the
cave mouth, you have a choice: will you explore the
right-hand tunnel (turn to 152), or will you use the rope
<0 help you climb down to the foot of the rock wall and
then continue towards the vast cliffs in the distance
turn to 4)?

54
Roll three dice and deduct the total from your sTAM-
ina. If, by some miracle, you are still alive, you regain
your senses, groaning, your body racked with pain.
You have survived the onslaught of the Spectral Stalkers
~ but where have they taken you? Turn to 392

55
The Grappler’s limbs hang limply at its sides; the lights
in its transparent dome flash more slowly, then fade. As
the last light dies, the all-pervasive hum suddenly
ceases, the room lurches drunkenly — and in the huge
hall of cages every door flies open, releasing the menag-
erie of bizarre life-forms. Soon hundreds of indescrib-
able creatures are milling together in the hall; some are
fighting, others are hunting or fleeing from predators,
and all are creating a cacophony of discordant cries.
Some of the fiercest-looking animals see you in the
Transporter Bay and begin to prowl towards you; then,
inexplicably, they turn tail and flee. You look behind
you: the hideous shape of a Spectral Stalker is forming
in the air! Add iz point to your TRAIL score. You
decide to use the Aleph to escape from this place and,
feverishly, you pull the glowing sphere from your

56-57

backpack and cup it in your hands. You feel yourself
being enveloped by the Aleph, and transported within
it. Roll one die. If you roll an even number, turn to 105;
if you roll an odd number, turn to 126.

56

Something is moving inside your backpack. You nudge
it with your foot: the glass ball is rocking from side to
side — and inside it the little clown puppet is jumping
up and down and hammering against the glass with his
tiny fists. You stretch your leg and extricate the ball
with your foot; then, with one swift blow of your
booted heel, you shatter the glass. With the jerky
movements of a marionette the little clown dances for
joy before stooping to pick up a sliver of glass. He
clambers laboriously up your clothing and along your
arm, where he starts to slice through the ropes securing
you to the pillar. As the last strands fall away from
your body, the little puppet begins to change ~- and
lying at your feet is the frail figure of a wizened old
man. ‘At last,’ he wheezes with a smile. ‘I have rescued
a hero, and thus atoned for my dreadful deeds all those
centuries ago. The curse is lifted from me, and at last ]
can die in peace!’ With that, the old man expires. Delete
the clown puppet from your Adventure Sheet. You look
up to see the other prisoners staring at you in amaze-
ment. Turn to 296.

The Minstrel and his harp remain silent as you ac-
company them along the road, which winds through
the forest and eventually begins to rise into rockier

terrain. At last you reach the summit as the road passes
through a neck between two crags and you stop along-
side the Minstrel to survey the wooded plateau in front
of you. In the distance there is a walled citadel, its
granite keep dominating the highest point. Two more
Zwinian soldiers emerge from a small watchtower near
the road. The Minstre] thumps the harp slung across his
back and the instrument starts to sing. Enthralled by
the eerie melody, the Zwinian guards seem befuddled
and clumsy. The Minstrel draws his sword and runs at
them, and in the ensuing mélée succeeds in killing both
of them. ‘It is so sweet to dispose of these traitors,’ he
says, wiping his sword on a clump of grass, ‘and this is
but the beginning of my revenge. Shall we continue to
the citadel? I promise you a wealth of entertainment
there.’ If you find the Minstrel's attitude too blood-
thirsty you can decline his offer and walk away - tum
to 342. If you decide to accompany him to the citadel,
tum to 213.

58

The liguid is tasteless and you have gulped down
several mouthfuls before you start to feel sharp pains in
your stomach. You have swallowed embalming fluid, a
poisonous substance used for preserving dead bodies!
You writhe on the floor, retching helplessly. Deduct 3
points of sTAMINA. If you survive the effects of the
poison, the pain subsides and you recover gradually,
until you feel strong enough to totter up the stairs and
through the door. Turn to 189.

59

‘fil-mannered lout!’ roars Wayland as you rush towards
him. ‘Can’t you take a joke? Be off with you!’ You
suddenly notice that a doorway has appeared between
you and your opponent. The stone pillars look solid
and permanent, but you are sure it was not there a
moment ago. Through the doorway you see Wayland
grinning at you, and as you step under the lintel you
catch sight of the word EXIT engraved in the stone.
Tum to 585.

60-61

60

You heave a sigh of relief as the Spectral Stalker
dissolves into the air; it had almost found you and you
could feel the tendrils of its malevolent will licking at
the edges of your mind. The Vaskind have all fled
beneath the waves; you are alone on the beach, You
wander back and forth, but can find nothing of interest,
and you decide to climb the path that zig-zags up the
tace of the cliff. Tur to 12.

6x

You pull the glowing sphere from your backpack and
gaze into it. The endless vista of numberless worlds
spreads itself before you; wherever you look new
marvels unfold before your eyes. The Aleph seems to
be everywhere, surrounding you, carrying you away
among, the swirling spheres; with an effort you try to
concentrate on your destination. If you are hoping to
find someone who can explain the significance of the
objects you have collected in your travels, turn to 354;
if you are keen to reach the conclusion of your quest,
hum to 234.

66-67

66

The villagers are overjoyed that a brave warrior is
prepared to help them, but they call tell you no more
than the way to Mayrek’s cave. You set off and after a
long trudge across the dunes you find yourself climbing
a wooded hillside. When you come to an avenue of
clay statues you know you are nearing your goal. You
walk up the winding path, marvelling at the skill of the
artist who has modelled these fantastical creatures of
clay. You turn the last corner and find that the avenue
ends at a cave in the face of a cliff. The mouth of the.
cave has been blocked with boulders and rubble. The
largest of the clay statues, shaped in the likeness of a
misshapen, slab-faced giant, stands astride the cave-
mouth. As you approach, the statue growls like thunder
and begins to move! A voice from within the cave can
be heard shouting: ‘Stay clear! 1 am Mayrek, and I know
what my Clay Golem can do. Run for your life’ With
slow, lumbering strides, the Golem steps towards a
waterfall that cascades down the cliff-face. For a few
seconds it stands under the pouring water — and then,
slick and glistening, it is rushing towards you. If you
have a vial of Siccator, and wish to use it, tum to 204.
If you stand and fight, turn to 13x. If you choose to
Tun away, turn to 3.

iy
- ue

FS a >,
te 1 SERS
_* td -.
‘ ota

Pewee

+
¥
. ; . -
7
wr

)
:
'
;
4
.
:
|

67
The doorway does not say another word; the bridge
stops swaying. You step forward gingerly. The stone
slab is as firm and stable as when you first stepped on
to it. You conclude that you gave the correct answer,
and a glance upwards at the ornate carvings over the

68-69

doorway confirms this conclusion. You hurry across
the bridge and through the doorway. You have suc-
ceeded in entering the Vitreous Citadel. Turn to 189

68
As you advance, the Feliti back away, baring their
fangs and yelping. Individually the creatures are no
match for you, but it will be difficult to drive off the
entire pack of them. In the fading light the swaying of
the tall grass shows that they are circling you — and
then the three largest of them come for you.

SKILL STAMINA
First FELITI 5 3
Second FELITI 4 5
Third FELIT! 6 5

Fight them one at a time. Before each Attack Round, roll
one die. If you roll a 1 or 2, the first Feliti attacks you;
on a 3 or 4, the second; a § or 6, the third. If you kill
one of them, turn to 109; if not, at the end of four
Attack Rounds turn to 169.

69
You break free of the sticky filaments before the Spider
can reach you. The monstrous creature retreats into its
web as you make for a corner of the courtyard out of
range of the Spider's trailing strands. Now you have
time to consider your next move: there are four exits
from the courtyard — a doorway in the middle of each
wall, You are sure that if you move quickly you can
reach one before the Spider can trap you. Only one of
the doorways has the circle and triangle symbol above

70

it; you face towards that doorway and make your
decision. You can go through the doorway you are
facing (turn to 317); the doorway behind you (turn to
15); the doorway to your right (tum to 285); or the
doorway to your left (turn to 367).

7o

You feel as visible as a fly on a whitewashed wall as
you climb up the blank face of the tower. The stairway
seems to spiral upwards for ever, and its weatherbeaten
steps of crumbling stone make you all too aware of the
drop below you. In the distance you see, swooping in
and out of other towers, the inhabitants of this part of
the Ziggurat World. They are known as Black Shadows,
because they fly silently, their wiry bodies supported
by a membrane of black skin that connects their long
tails, legs, arms and ears. You are just thinking how
lucky you are none of them are close enough to see
you when you hear a rushing of air and a flapping of
membranous skin — a Black Shadow is descending on
you. The creature lands above you, then, clinging to
the stones with its talons, it scuttles down towards you,

fangs bared. Unlike the Black Shadow, you have no

7i-72

way to secure yourself on to the stonework and if you
fight the creature you will certainly be dislodged from
the stairway. You will have to deliver a single well-
aimed blow. If you have a silver dagger, it might be
particularly effective against this monster — turn to 28:
if not, you must use your sword — tum to 106.

71
You uncork the little bottle and pass it to Grondel,
telling him to drink half of the liquid. You consume the
remainder. You cannot detect any change in your body;
all you can do is wait, and hope that the Siccator will be
able to protect you from the effects of the poison. On
the dais above you the Elven priest's incantations reach
a loud climax. There are a few seconds of silence, then
you hear the gurgling rumble of water rushing through
old pipes, and a sheet of liquid splashes all round you.
You grit your teeth in the expectation of pain — but
you don’t even feel wet. The water runs off your skin
as if you had a second, invisible skin, and when the
flow from the spout ceases you and Grondel are both
completely dry and completely undamaged. Tum to

245.

72
‘Wrong!’ barks the Logic Dog. ‘I'm going to attack!
You guessed incorrectly, and therefore I will attack.’
With that, the huge beast launches itself towards you
Turn to 163.

73-74

7 . 5

As the small voice in the back of your mind becomes
more and more insistent, the beautiful visions dis-
integrate and fade. You blink, become fully alert and
realize that you are lying on Necromon’s bloodstained
table, The white-coated figure has his back to you,
sharpening a long knife on a grindstone. You use this
opportunity to rise quietly, pick up your backpack and
“ptoe away. The nearest door is the one through which
Necromon entered the room earlier, You slip through
= tum to 366,

74
The Ranganathans are between you and the door, You
charge towards them and knock them aside, but their
razor-sharp fingers lacerate you as you flee. Lose 4
STAMINA points. You jump over heaps of books and
through the doorway, slamming the door shut behind
you. As you retrace your steps along the corridor the
Ranganathans open the door of their room and poke
their heads out, giggling and squealing at your ignomini-
ous retreat, You arrive back at the crossroads and begin
the long hike along another corridor; turn to either
164, 243 Or 373.

75-77

75

You have very little time in which to judge which way
you should jump and, having decided, you will have to
jump well and with alacrity in order to avoid the crazed
Colepod’s charge. Roll two dice and add 2 to the result:
if the total is less than your SKILL, turn to 349; if the
total is equal to, or more than, your SKILL, turn to
242.

76

You stand in the path of the massive and grotesque
war-beasts and wave your arms. The gigantic riders seem
to stare straight through you and remain oblivious to
you even as their steeds bear down on you. Although
the beasts’ hoofbeats are still unnervingly noiseless,
you can see from their imprints in the turf that their
hooves are as heavy and powerful as they look. You
are about to be trampled; you cannot stay where you
are, so you decide to attempt to grab the harness of
one of the animals and pull yourself to safety. Roll two
dice, If the total is less than your sKILL score, turn to
161; if the total is equal to or more than your SKILL
score, turn to 387.

As you step towards the multicoloured clusters of glass
flowers you are entranced by their sparkling brightness
and by the musical tinkling they make as they sway in
the breeze — and then you realize that there is not a
breath of wind. It is your presence that is exciting the
flowers, and they become a storm-tossed sea of poly-
chrome scintillation as you stand before the bell-shaped

78

blooms. Suddenly a jet of fluid shoots from the mouth
of one of the flowers, You throw yourself backwards
rust in time as the whole bank of blooms releases a
battery of liquid spray. You dip a corner of cloth into a
puddle of the stuff, and the material shrivels and smokes.
As you suspected, the flowers are deadly: they spray
corrosive acid. However, unless you want to return to
the path to face a Silica Serpent (turn to 162), you have
no choice but to try to force a passage through the
flowers, cutting a swathe with your sword as you go
tum to 390). This might prove less dangerous if you
have an Umbrella (turn to 208), or if you are wearing a
suit of Ophidian armour (tun to 62).

78

You walk for only a short time before you reach
another portal. Through it you find a small rectangular
chamber, on the floor of which are the remains of a
camp fire. The ashes are cold, but the very thought that
someone could be lost in this maze long enough to
make camp for at least one night is enough to worry
you. You decide to press on with all speed. There are
cour doorways, one in each of the walls, and as usual
one of them is marked with the symbol of a tnangle
surmounted by a circle. You face towards it and choose
which of the doorways you will leave through:

The door facing you Turn to 285
The door behind you Turn to 122
The door to your right Turn to 2§7
The door to your left Turn to 247

79-81

79
Fate decrees that you are going to drink water, You are
a little disgruntled, but Fate has been kind to you (the
ale is drugged!), You finish your meal. wash it down
with the water and relax on the mattress. Lulled by the
lapping of the river water below your room, you drift
into sleep. Turn to 196.

80
You put the Horm to your lips and blow, If this is the
first time you have tried to deter Black Shadows by
sounding the Hunting-Horn, tum to 46; if you have

tried this before, turn to 38x.

81
‘You are the last pawn to be placed on the field,” you
hear Drawenna say, ‘and now the rules of battle change.
The winning side — white or black — is the one with
more surviving warriors when no more can be killed in
battle. Each side plays in turn, and in one tum only a
single pawn may move, but all pawns from that side
may attack. A pawn may move one square ahead or
either side; you may not move backwards, or diagon-
ally, or into a square occupied by another living warrior
of either side. During one side's turn. the other side's
Pawns cannot attack; they can only defend themselves
by turning their backs on their attackers — an effective
defence because of the armour. Attacking pawns can
attack all enemy pawns on all adjacent squares, includ.
ing these diagonally adjacent. Therefore, as you can
see, @ pawn attacked from one side is invulnerable, but
# pawn attacked from two opposite sides is doomed to

8r

we bh oe

oo

EXAMPLES OF PLAY

Black pawn, showing legal moves,

White pawn, showing legal moves,

In this position, the white pawn has only one legal

move, as shown.
- ft is white’s turn. He moves his pawn A as shown and
can now attack. Black pawns X and Y ate killed, because
they are directly between white pawns. Black pawn Z is
safe.
81

The situation immediately after Drawenna (white) has
placed her last pawn on the board. You — marked with an
X, on square F4 — are Drawenna’s last pawn

Now it is white’s tum to move one pawn, and then
attack, Can white win?

81-82

die. Now: to battle, my white pawns! We can yet win
this game!"

The positions of the pawns are shown on the diagram
opposite. You are the white pawn, marked with a cross,
on the square numbered F4 on the diagram. Your white
comrades appeal to you for guidance. ‘Only one of us
can move in each turn,’ says the warrior on square G6,
and it will have to be me. I am almost surrounded; my
only possible move is to my left [to Gs}. If I don’t
move, the black warrior next to you will move along-
side me, and I'll be slaughtered!’

Nol’ says the warrior on square E6. ‘I should be the one
to move. If | move forward {to Dé], we'll have one of
these black swine diagonally between us. Or,’ he con-
<inues, more thoughtfully, ‘if you move to your left {fo
£3], to keep out of danger, we can still finish off the one
Dlack warrior between me and the other fellow.’

They are waiting for your decision. If you decide that
the white warrior on square G6 should move to Gs,
tum to 398. If you agree that the warrior on Eé should
move forward to Dé, turn to 303. If you think that you
should be the one to move, turn to 326, (Make a note
of this reference number (81); it may be helpful to refer
to the diagram again.)

82
You batter the glowing surface of the Prism, but your
>lows are futile. Your weapon rebounds from the crystal
of light as if you were striking solid steel. As the
Spectral Stalkers Iurch in your direction, you become
crantic with fear, clawing at the transparent Prism with

83

your bare hands, but only inanimate objects, moving
slowly, can penetrate the force field. As the tentacles of
a Spectral Stalker seize your legs, your last sight is of
the Archmage’s gloating face. You have failed, and
Globus has gained the Aleph.

83
You emerge on to a steep and rocky path that meanders
down a mountainside. At the foot of the mountain you
come upon a small town. It is market day, and the
narrow main street is crowded with townsfolk and
farmers. The stalls are selling farm produce — vegetables,
honey, oil and chickens — and you can see nothing that
seems significant to you. The last stall in the street,
however, has a display of earthenware and metal goods.
In pride of place is a finely-crafted, circular bronze
plate, which somehow reminds you of the Aleph. The

84-86

scene engraved across it is a depiction of the Hunt of
the Gods that is an exact portrayal of the giants and the
war-beasts that you encountered. The stallholder wants 3
Gold Pieces for the plate and is not prepared to haggle.
= you have enough money, and want to buy the plate,
record the transaction on your Adventure Sheet. You
nave now reached the end of the town; there is nothing
to do but wander into the countryside and use the
Aleph to travel elsewhere. Turn to 30.

84
Even the pain in your bursting lungs cannot prevent
you from slipping away. Bubbles of air foam your
mouth; almost unconscious, you breathe in again — and
all your chest with cold sea water. Your adventure
ends here.

85

You offer no resistance as one of the soldiers lurches
Dehind you and brings the haft of his battle-axe down
on your head. For a moment the grinning face of the
gigantic warlord Syzuk seems to spin about you. As
you drop into unconsciousness you are dimly aware of
sony hands grasping you and carrying you away. Turn
20 215.

86
You can climb no further. Your limbs are shaking, your
Sngers and toes are lacerated and numb and your
muscles are screaming at you to rest. You look up: the
cave-mouth is still many metres above you. You look
down: there is a dizzying drop to the foot of the wall of

87-88

rock. You cannot move, but you cannot hope to cling
to the bare stone much longer. Your only hope is to
call for help. You fill your lungs and start to shout. Test
your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 299; if you are
Unlucky, tum to 399.

87

The continuous glow of light banishes your fears and
makes the toys look completely ordinary. You relax on
the bed; if you have Provisions, you can eat one meal if
you wish, and restore up to 4 points of sTAMINA. In
the morning, you wake to find sunlight strearning into
the room. As you prepare to leave, you glance at the
little clown in his glass sphere. You can take him with
you if you want to ~ he reminds you of the Aleph.
which you decide to use immediately to take you away
from this haunted castle, Tun to 6r.

88

Tf you are a friend of the tyrant Globus,’ shrills the
Mantir, while his comrades shake their spears angrily,
‘you are no friend of the people of the plains. We pay
our tribute, which grows more onerous each year, We
will offer no more to Globus, or give aid to his spies
and other agents such as you. I intend to find out what
you are, and why you are trespassing here on our
lands; but we must return now to our herd. You will
come with us; I will interrogate you later.’ Four of the
Mantirs close round you — but at that moment one of
the others shrieks in alarm, and points skywards, Tum
to 388.

89-92

89
The Spectral Stalker has failed to find you. You heave a
sigh of relief as the hideous creature shakes its great
read in frustration and begins to dissolve into the air
once more. Shivering with fear, you lie awake until the
grey light of dawn appears in the cracks between the
snutters. Turnto qo.

°

+A: last the door is free Of fungus and the latch is
ancovered — but you cannot see it, Drowning in a sea
x black, viscous smog, your eyes blinded by tears of
pain and your lungs filled with poisonous fumes, you
scrabble weakly at the wooden door — but you fail to

snd the latch before you are overcome. Your adventure
ends here.

gI

Taking the Aleph from your backpack you cup jt in
your hands and gaze into it. The infinite display of
<istant worlds and alien landscapes has lost none of its
power to fascinate you. The shifting visions extend
mio the distance in all directions — you are surrounded
zy the Aleph, and you feel yourself being transported
within it. Roll one die. If you roll an even number,
=<n to r45; if you roll an odd number, turn to 156.

92
Avoiding occasional Wood EIf settlements you walk
eewnhill, through the forest, for many hours. You find
a ew wild berries to eat, but they merely prevent your
S7aMINA being reduced by your exertions. At last
93

the trees thin out, and you emerge from the woodlands
and start across a bleak moor. The soil becomes in-
creasingly sandy and, eventually, you see the sea, On
your right, the sheer cliffs are, if anything, closer now
You see no living thing, but soon you come upon a
ruined town and the footprints of several large crea-
tures. Out at sea a cluster of huge bubbles rests on the
water's surface, The beach peters out between the sea
and the cliff. You see that there is a path which zig-zags
up the face of the cliff. Will you take the path (tum to
12), or walk down to the shore to look at the vast
bubbles (turn to 230)?

93

‘Globus?’ barks the Dragon. ‘Spectral Stalkers? Never
heard of them. But that’s not surprising, you know
There are more books in the Library in Limbo than
there are grains of sand on all the beaches in the
Macrocosmos. We have at least one copy of every
book ever written, and even | can’t be expected to read
them all. What sort of thing is a Globus? Or a Spectral
Stalker?’ You confess that you don’t know what a
Spectral Stalker is, but that Globus is an Archmage. ‘An
Archmage? If he’s of any note at all he'll warrant an
entry in the Directory of Wizards. You'll find a copy a
couple of kilometres along that corridor there. You
can’t miss it, it’s a big black book with the word
Wizards on the spine. Well, run along then.’ Will you
follow the Dragon’s pointing finger (tum to 373), or
would you rather set off in another direction to explore
the corridors of the Library (turn to 275)?

94-95

You throw yourself to the ground and the jet of fluid
only just misses you. As you roll away from the Silica
Serpent you hear a strange hissing noise, and you look
up to see that the rocks that have been sprayed by the
Silica Serpent’s venom are bubbling, steaming and dis-
solving into smoke. You pick yourself up, step back —
and immediately collide with the leader of a troop of
soldiers. They are tall, thin humanoids, totally encased
m plate armour made entirely of black glass. Each
carries a spear and has a set of pipes hanging from his
Delt. You are trapped between the soldiers and the
Silica Serpent; you have no choice but to surrender.
Tum to 306.

Suddenly there is no floor beneath your feet. The
whole base of the tunnel has dropped into a pit — and
vou are falling after it! The vast stone slab lands with a
stinding crash and a second |ater, with a relatively
<mimpressive thud, you land on top of it. Roll one die
and deduct the result from your sTAMINA. If you
96

are still alive, you can see that you and the stone floor
nave fallen several metres, and you cannot see any way
of climbing up. Then you feel the floor move again,
wd you realize that the entire slab is rising, lifting you
upwards. After several minutes of slow, juddering
ascent the floor returns to its original position and you
are once again facing the strange design carved into the
wall at the tunnel’s end. This time, will you press the
tight ‘eye’ (turn to 290), or the left one (tum to 216)?
Or will you decide instead to retrace your steps along
the tunnel (turn to 122)?

A whining noise fills the air, and one of the room's
metallic walls slides upwards to reveal a vast vaulted
nall, ribbed with girders of shining steel and lined with
metal cages, Trudging towards you between the lines
of cages is a nightmarish monster. It is twice as tall as
you, with legs that look like part of a giant’s suit of
amour, and instead of feet it has, at the end of each jeg,
2 row of wheels that turn a band of metal plates. Its
nead is a transparent dome within which lights flash
and wheels turn and, worst of all. from its torso sprouts
= mass of long steel limbs, some flexible and no thicker
San a ship's hawser, others jointed and terminating in
pincers, “Grappler reporting from Transporter Bay,’ the
monster says in a monotone. ‘Intruder focated’ It
advances towards you; you have no choice but to fight.
= you have a weapon named Extinguisher, and wish to
ase it, turn to 280; otherwise tur to 489.
97-99

97
You stand, breathless, over the innkeeper’s body. If you

need a new weapon you may take his sword. You look
towards the last red glimmer of the sunset — and freeze
in horror. The hideous shape of a Spectral Stalker is
forming in the air, towering above you on four fleshless
legs. The glittering orbs of its eyes search back and
forth and below them the writhing mass of tentacles
seems to be sensing your scent on the air, Add one
point to your TRAIL score, and then Test your Trail
score. Roll three dite. If the total is equal to or more
than your TRAIL score, turn to §; if the total is less
than your TRAIL score, turn to 307.

98

Holding your breath at every step, you climb upwards
You reach the sixteenth step without feeling the slight-
est tremor. With great care, you leap over the seven-
teenth without touching it and land on the eighteenth
step. Nothing happens and you advance confidently -
but only as far as the twentieth step, where an electrical
charge as powerful as a bolt of lightning fries you in an
instant, The adventure ends here for warriors who fail
to calculate correctly.

99
Semeion pulls the helmet from his head, and indicates
that you should do likewise. Then he crosses the cham-
ber and takes from a shelf two large glass jars. Each jar
contains what looks like a gigantic red slug. “These are
Energy Leeches,’ Semeion says, plunging his hand into
one of the jars and extracting its writhing occupant

Ioo—-IoF

They suck vital resources from the body,’ he adds,
coiling fine wire around one Leech and then the other,
but the salts can be restored by drinking sea water.’
When both are cocooned in wire, he places the mouth
of one of them against his bared arm and grimaces in
distaste as its teeth sink into his flesh. He fastens the
other Leech to your arm in the same way. Then,
sogether, you and he place the helmets over your
heads. Immediately you feel the strength draining from
your body. Roll one die; make a note of the result, and
deduct it from your STAMINA. These lost points can be
restored only by a drink of sea water. If you now have
no remaining STAMINA points turn to 203; otherwise,
cum to 250.

100
A wise choice, Mayrek says, handing you the little
20x, ‘Gold is always of use. This particular jtem has a
‘ttle of my skill worked into it the pattem of the
decoration on the box has powers to assist you in
difficulties,” Add 1 point to your current Luck score,
and 1 point to your Imifial cucx as well; and don't
torget to add 5 Gold Pieces to your Adventure Sheet,
You thank Mayrek and depart along the avenue of
statues. When you are out of sight of the cave, you
wonder where to go next. There seems to be no choice
but to use the Aleph to leave this place, Turn to 211

IdoI
After walking only a short distance you step through a
doorway, beyond which you find two more open door-
ways, with a tunnel beyond each. By the half-light that
102

creeps in through a fissure high above, you can see that
one of the three doorways has the circle and triangle
symbol inscribed above it, Facing this doorway, you
have to choose whether to go through the portal in
front of you (turn to 367); the one behind you (turn to
317); or the one to your right (turn to 26).

102

You are exhausted. Your limbs are trembling, every
muscle in your body aches and your fingers and toes
are numb, Worse, you are scarcely more than half-way
to the top of the cliff. Dizzy and weak, you pull
yourself on to a ledge that is just wide enough for you
to stand on; and there you remain, clinging to the cliff
and incapable of movement, your face pressed against
the cold stone. After what seems like hours you hear a
noise: a flapping, as of the wings of giant birds. You
turn your head and find yourself staring into the malev-
olent red eyes of a Black Shadow, one of the bloodsuck-
ing, membrane-winged creatures that inhabit part of
the second level of this world, You have no strength to
resist as it plucks you from the ledge and carries you
into the sky, You lose consciousness — and wake as you
are being flung to the floor of a gloomy circular crypt.
As you pick yourself up you hear the sound of the door
being locked and barred. You are a prisoner; but, as you
idly kick the straw that is scattered across the floor, you
find a trapdoor set into the flagstones. This seems to be
your only escape route ~ turn to 140.

103-104

103

‘You're from Khul?’ says Wayland. ‘Khul, on the world
of Titan? I know of it, of course. Primitive technology,
compared to some worlds I could name, but an interest-
ing place all the same. You are wet, aren’t you? Sorry
about that ~ I just can’t resist a joke. Have a swig of
this; it'll dry you out in no time.’ Wayland’s hand
dwarfs the bottle that he offers you. If you accept this
offer, tum to 356. If you decline to drink from the
bottle, Wayland is not offended — turn to 175.

104
The largest of the Vaskind advances on you, his sword
whistling through the air as he thrashes it from side to
side. ‘Single combat,’ he grunts. ‘If you live, you go
Tee.”

VASKIND SKILL 7

if you are stil] alive after two rounds of combat, add
i point to your TRraii score. The five Vaskind who
nave been watching your fight in solemn silence
suddenly cry out and mm into the sea. Their leader
backs away from you with a look of horror on his frog-
like face. The hideous shape of a Spectral Stalker is
torming in the air, towering above you on four fleshless
legs. As it materializes the glittering orbs of its eyes
search back and forth, and its tentacles seem to be
sensing your scent on the air. Test your Trail score. Roll
three dice. If the total is equal to or more than your
TRAIL score, turn to 60; if the total is less than your
TRAIL score, turn to 300.

STAMINA 9
To§

105
Gasps of astonishment; then laughter, cheers and finally
applause! You have appeared on stage, in front of an
audience, inside an open-fronted cabinet like a sentry-
box. You step forward and are greeted with another
burst of applause. The stage is in fact a roofed wagon,
open along one side. Standing next to you is the
Conjuror, a tall, satumine figure in a black cloak, and his
assistant, a young woman dressed as a cat. Before you
is the audience, a crowd of peasants still open-mouthed
m amazement at your appearance. At the back of the
throng stands an open carriage containing a plump
nobleman who is staring, not at you, but at the empty
seat beside him. Even the Conjuror seems surprised to
see you, but he recovers and addresses his audience:
‘Ladies and gentlemen! A double miracle! Not only
have I spirited the Baron’s beautiful daughter from her
seat in his coach; | have also caused this warrior to
appear in the magic cabinet! Have no fear, my Lord,
your daughter will be restored to you in just a few
moments, Meanwhile my assistant will escort this war-
nor backstage — Felice, take our visitor away!’ His
assistant, as graceful as the animal she resembles, draws
aside the curtain at the rear of the stage and beckons to
you — and in that moment you glimpse her long furry
tail, and realize that it is not part of her costume! Felice
iB not a woman — perhaps she is a Were-cat. Will you
accompany her backstage (turn to 310), or will you
pimp from the stage and try to escape into the cowd
{turn to 177)?
106—108

106
Bracing yourself as securely as you can on the precari-
ous steps, you make ready to strike as soon as the Black
Shadow is within range. Roll four dice. If the result is
less than the sum of your skiLL and tuck, tum
to 64; if the result is equal to, or greater than, the sum
of your sxILt and LUCK, turn to 394

107

Anticipating an easy victory over the frail-looking Map-
maker, you charge across the study towards him — only
to be met by crackling lines of sparks that shoot from
his metal fingers. The power of Science can easily be
turned into a force for destruction!’ Metron announces
grimly as he wheels his thin frame towards you. Howl-
ing in pain each time one of the sparks strikes your
body, you back towards the glowing chamber from
which you emerged. Roll one die and subtract the
result from your sTAMINA. Also add 1 point to your
TRAIL score. The chamber is behind you; you step
backwards into it and hope that it will transport you
elsewhere. Turn to 42.

108
‘All I ask,’ says Necromon, ‘is a little of your life-force.
Don’t be alarmed! A strong warrior like you has energy
to spare; you won't even notice the difference. Nor is
the extraction of the life-force painful or in any way
unpleasant. On the contrary! The potion that I will use
to free your spirit, so that I can trap a little of it in my
glass, has the power to bring enlightenment. Visions,
dreams, bliss — all these will be yours, my friend.

TOQ—III

Simply drink this potion and then keep the flask firmly
to your lips, so that I may hold there a little portion of
your essential spirit.’ If you are willing to agree to this
procedure, turn to 249; if you insist that you must
leave, turn to 9.

109
There is a moment of silence as the lean body of the
dead Feliti slumps to the ground. The whistle of the
wind in the tall grass sounds like the keening of a
multitude of lost souls. Then, with a chorus of enraged
baying, the entire pack of Feliti hurl themselves at you.
You cannot kill them all; your adventure ends here.

110
In this round of combat you decide to let fate take its
course. Test your Luck. If you are Unlucky, your sword
slides uselessly along the Silica Serpent's scaly flank —
return to 287 and continue your fight with the creature
if you are Lucky, turn to 238.

111
The old woman tosses the coins into the air and they
disappear. You hear a distant metallic tinkle, as if the
coins had reappeared and landed in a nearby cavern.
Listen to the words of the Oracle!’ the crone intones.
You, warrior, have been within a dream. And no
ordinary mortal’s dream, but the dream of a god. Which
god? That I know not, for there are many gods in the
Macrocosmos. But } hazard that he is a god of hunting!
While inside his dream you acquired his Horn — not the
most potent of items to steal from a god, but perhaps it
IIz

will be useful. Sound it when you are faced with
danger; it will deter those opponents who fear loud
noises, at least And now you must depart, for your
pursuers are ever vigilant. Before you leave, accept this
charm.’ The old woman traces a pattern in the air;
regain 1 point of Luck. ‘I know,’ she continues, ‘that
you have your own means of travelling, so I will refrain
from advising you; but if, as I suspect, you are collecting
signs and portents that have to do with your burden, I
suggest that the market in the town below my cave
might be of interest” The fires flare up, then die — and
the old woman has gone. The exit from the cave is
revealed by a distant glimmer of daylight; you can
leave through it (turn to 83), or use the Aleph to travel
elsewhere (turn to 30).

112
You pull the Aleph from your backpack and cup it in
your hands, but all you see within it are dull grey
clouds. The Black Shadows are all about you, but they
seem to recognize the Aleph, for they retreat. You are
still hemmed in, however, and, after chattering amongst
themselves for a few seconds, the Black Shadows ad-
vance on you again. This time they are careful not to
damage you too severely with their talons, as if deter-

IL3-114

mined to take you alive; restore 1 point of Lucx. In the
end, however, although you slaughter many of them in
your heroic stand at the base of the tower, their in-
exhaustible supply of reinforcements ensures that there
can be only one outcome. You are overwhelmed,
swamped beneath black folds of skin and you feel sharp
tangs pierce your flesh. The venom works quickly and
you drift into unconsciousness, Turn to 291.

113
Sitting at the table, you grab a hunk of bread and a slice
of meat and stuff them into your mouth. The food is
very tasty {you may restore up to 4 points of
STAMINA). Now you need something to drink. The
ale is very tempting, but you know that to keep a clear
head you should drink only a little water. You spy a
small copper coin on the floor and decide to let fate
choose your beverage. On one side of the coin is the
mead of a queen. Heads I drink the ale, you say to
yourself, and toss the coin into the air. Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, the coin lands head down; tum to 79. If
you are Unlucky, the coin lands head up; turn to 312.

114

The Spectral Stalker's tentacles writhe in frustration as
tt dissolves into the air. As you recover from the shock
of seeing the ghostly demon, so do the Ophidians and
¥ou are once again surrounded, Now, however, the
black-armoured beings seem to treat you with wary
respect, and are no longer inclined to take revenge for
your assault on their comrade. Four of them stand
guard on you while the rest return to the trapped Silica
Serpent. Tum to 133.

115-116

115
By the light of a hundred flickering torches you see that
you are in a city of crumbling stone buildings. The
courtyard is full of the city’s Elven inhabitants. You
look up to the dark sky, but you can see only the
distant crags and folds of a rocky vault. The entire city
is enclosed within a huge cavern and the Elves are all
staring at you with saucer-shaped eyes that are adapted
to life underground. You are standing at the foot of the
dais on which sits the huge, moss-encrusted stone head
of a grotesque idol; an Elven priest stands beside it. The
mouth of the deity is carved into the shape of a spout;
below it, next to you, there is a shallow pool. Standing
‘n the pool, chained by the ankles so he cannot move
irom beneath the spout, is an aged EIf.

The priest stares at you, and then begins to laugh. ‘So,
Grondel,’ he sneers down at the chained Elf, ‘this is
your so-called proof of your heretical doctrine of other
worlds, This looks like a pitiful creature to me and is no
evidence of other realms beyond our Cave. But no
coubt if it is a powerful being, it will protect you from
the wrath of Vacavon. Guards! Seize this creature!
Chain him with Grondel beneath the mouth of Vaca-
yon!’ Guards with spears advance towards you. If you
have a rune-inscribed wheel-hub, and you want to
produce it, tum to 331. Otherwise, you will have to
fght (tum to 3) or surrender (tum to 301).

x16
Keeping close to the base of the enormous cliff, you
walk for hours through gradually thinning woodland.
1t7

You manage to find a few edible roots to stave off your
hunger, but they are insufficient to restore any
STAMINA. At last you leave the trees, and finally you
can see a way up the cliff: a path starts nearby and zig-
zags up the face. With the cliff behind you, you look
out across a vast plain of grass, its flat expanse broken
only by a few gently rolling hills and an occasional low
tree, Some distance away, herds of grazing animals are
being shepherded by strange creatures.

There is a disturbance in the nearest herd: an animal
panics, breaks away, and begins to mun straight towards
you. Will you advance on to the grassland to intercept
the stray animal (turn to 276); or will you tum and take
the cliff-face path (turn to 12)?

117

You trudge for hours across the dunes. There is less
and less vegetation, and eventually you are walking
through an arid desert. There is no shelter, and the sun
is unbearably hot. You sit down to rest in a hollow
between dunes — and the sand beneath you begins to

118-119

=ove. You have disturbed a Sandsnake: a gigantic
serpent that basks under a light covering of sand. As
vou struggle to stand, its body coils around your legs
and its head rears up in front of you. You must fight it.
& has two attacks in each Attack Round: the first attack
s the twining of its scaly body, and unless you wound
= it will coil itself about you, reducing your sKILL
zy 2 points. Its second attack is with its venomous
=angs, and if it wounds you you must deduct 4 points
ot STAMINA.

s>ANDSNAKE SKILL 6 STAMINA 10

= you defeat it, you find that any Glowcandles you
say have purchased have been broken in the struggle
delete them from your Adventure Sheet), With a sigh,
+ou climb a dune to survey the empty desert, There
seems to be no choice but to use the Aleph to leave
=us place. Turn to 211,

118

‘tou walk through the doorway into utter darkness,
“rou take a few more steps forward — only to hear the

coor slam shut behind you. You are trapped. Lights
>egin to glow feebly. Turn to 392.

19g
The Minstrel slaps the strings of his harp and the
mythmic chant issuing from the instrument's carved
mouth rises in pitch, Flailing their limbs in time with
‘ne song and bellowing with fear and frustration, the
Zwinian courtiers and townsfolk are forced to form a

120

long line and dance up to the battlements. At the front
of the line Frampa is trembling with the effort of trying
to resist the harp’s enchantment; but he cannot prevent
himself leading his people on to the narrow ledge that
overlooks an almost vertical drop at the edge of the
plateau. The Minstrel strikes his hand across the strings
of the harp, creating a loud jangling discord. With cries
of despair Frampa and his people find themselves leap-
ing from the battlements and into the void. Smiling, the
Minstrel listens to the fading cries. Then there is silence,
and you are alone with the Minstrel. ‘My thanks for
your assistance, stranger,’ he says, ‘but I no longer need
you.’ As he draws his sword, he speaks the words that
undo his spell and you see your opponent for the first
time: Barogkaz the Enchanter, a gigantic Zwinian. His
snout wrinkles in a sneer, and he attacks.

BAROGKAZ SKILL 9 STAMINA 13

If you are still alive after hve rounds of combat, turn to
193.

120

A flock of Black Shadows descends on you, flapping
around you like animated sheets. They seem reluctant
to rend you with their talons and, whirling and slashing
at them, you are able to fend them off for a while. But
at last you are overwhelmed, smothered in dark folds
of skin, and you feel sharp fangs plunging into your
flesh. The venom in their bites starts to work at once
and you drift into unconsciousness, Turn to 291.

i2I

I21

As you step into the blackness of the tunnel you realize
your mistake: the rough floor slopes downwards! You
stumble, slide and fall into a doorless chamber that
smells of smoke and ash, losing 2 points of sTAMINA.
You hear a faint echo of Syzuk’s triumphant shout:
‘Advance no further, my warriors. The foolish creature
has fallen into the fire-pit. He is in the belly of mighty
Glund. Let him be sacrificed forthwith! Our victory is
assured!’

You jump to reach the tunnel entrance, but it is high in
the wall of the chamber and you cannot reach it. Syzuk
and his Skeletal Warriors continue chanting. You
become aware that the chamber is uncomfortably warm.
Spirals of smoke issue from cracks in the walls and the
soles of your boots are becoming unbearably hot. You
are about to be baked inside a god! For a moment you
panic, and then you remember the Aleph. You retrieve
it from your pack: in the darkness of the chamber its
minute moving landscapes shine with brilliant light. As
you look into it, the Aleph expands to surround you
and the breathless heat fades. Roll one die: if you roll an
even number, turn to 51. If you roll an odd number,
turn to 36.
122—124

122

Once again you find yourself walking in near-darkness
along a seemingly endless tunnel. At last you see light
ahead and step out of the end of the tunnel into a
square courtyard, Sunlight streams down the shaft made
by the four walls and sparkles on the spouting waters
of the fountain at the centre of the courtyard. The
fountain is a statue carved in the likeness of a muscular
man with the horned head of a bull; the clear liquid
shoots from his uplifted mouth, splashes down his
athletic torso and collects in the stone basin in which he
stands, You approach the fountain: the liquid is trans.
parent, colourless and odourless — it seems to be pure
water. If you want to drink from the basin, turn to 277:
if not, turn to 20,

123
Your sword strikes one of the Silica Serpent's eyes,
which shatters into a thousand shards. A fountain of
black fluid jets from the creature’s eye-socket as it dies.
You wipe your sword and continue along the path
towards the Vitreous Citadel. Turn to 336.

124
You take the Aleph from your backpack. Cupping it
between your hands, you are instantly mesmerized by
the countless tiny visions which swarm within its infin-
ite depths. The longer you gaze, the more you can see:
farmlands and deserts, monstrous creatures and vast
gleaming machines, rainbow-ringed planets and spirall-
ing galaxies of stars. You feel yourself being enveloped
by the Aleph, and transported within it. Roll one die. If

125

you roll an even number, turn to 180; if you roll an
odd number, turn to 105.

125

You approach the net cautiously, expecting it to contain
a savage animal. As you begin to cut through the
ropes, however, you are astonished to find that the
captive is akin to the winged humanoid which dropped
out of the sky above Khul and died at your feet — the
one who entrusted the Aleph to your care and started
you on your travels between worlds. He has the bright
robes and wide eyes of his fellow, but his wings are
made of long white feathers like a swan’s. One of his
legs is bent at an unnatural angle beneath his prone
body, and you guess that it is broken. ‘My thanks for
aiding me, warrior,’ he whispers, ‘but you must not
remain here, I know who you are, and I know the
burden you carry. Flocks of Silica Serpents will be here
ere long and you must not be discovered, still less
taken by them. Leave me, hide yourself — quickly!’

If you want to ignore his advice and carry him to the
shelter of the woods, turn to 37; if you leave him, you
run from the clearing and make for the higher ground
nearer the cliffs — turn to 1go,

126-127

126

Under a cloudless blue sky, the park extends to the
horizon in every direction. The lush grass is dotted
with spinneys of oaks and elms and there are larger
matches of woodland that cover the gently rolling hills.
Not a branch stirs; no bird’s song disturbs the silence.
As you approach the edge of the wood, the under-
growth is thrown into a turmoil of movement as a
Dizarre assortment of wildlife bursts from the cover of
the trees. Deer, rabbits, hares, foxes, badgers, boar and
even brown bears, and with them are homed goat-
egged Satyrs, green-skinned Nymphs, Centaurs and a
Unicorn. All are running, fleeing from the wood, scatter-
mg in panic across the park, open-mouthed with fear
out as silent as shadows. They run past, barely noticing
you in their headlong flight. You look again towards
che wood and see their terrible pursuers. Armoured
giants on horned war-beasts emerge from between the
aees, galloping relentlessly but as silently as their prey.
The giants, noble and cruel-featured, are clothed in
omate bejewelled costumes, their weapons sparkling in
the sunlight. Their red-eyed steeds seem to skim the
grass, If you want to stand in the path of these hunters
and try to attract their attention, tun to 76; if you
decide to stand well clear, tum to 358.

12
As you descend the stairs, you hear a rhythmic clanking.
You stop in amazement as you see what appears to be
a moving suit of armour with a square head and flashing
zyes climbing the steps towards you. It stops, elevates
its metal head, and speaks in a voice like iron rubbing
128

against stone, “You're lucky you caught me,’ it drones.
‘| was just going out on my rounds, Are you lost?
You've come to the right place Ha ha ha, Follow me.
This way.’

The metal man turns and leads you into a cellar full of
junk. At a glance you see hats, cloaks, boxes, parcels,
weapons, scrolls, purses and hundreds of unrecognizable
objects, all jumbled together in a heap. Black things like
bats on sticks hang from hooks in the ceiling There are
caged antmals, statues, chairs, a clock and a doorway on
whose lintel is engraved the word EXIT.

‘My name’s Lost Property,’ the metal man continues.
‘Seeing as that’s what I am. Where I come from | was
Domestic Robot Number 45B, but there’s no call for
Domestic Robots here in Limbo. So J live down here
and keep the Library tidy. Look at all this stuff I've
collected! Do you need anything? Maybe we could do
some business.’ If you want to trade with the Robot,
tum to 225. If you decide to go through the EXIT
doorway, turn to 185

528

The liquid is tasteless and you have gulped down
several mouthfuls before you become aware of a grow-
ing sensation of well-being. Your wounds hurt less and
the burden of fatigue is lifted from your shoulders. You
drink more of the liquid, which is clearly some kind of
concentrated food in fluid form, and you soon feel
completely satiated. You may restore up to 6 points of
STAMINA. Then, with renewed vigour, you stride up
the stairs and through the door. Turn to 189,

129-130

129

The outline of the tall shape becomes clearer, but as
you stare aghast at its nightmarish appearance, it senses
your presence and bounds towards you on impossibly
‘ong, thin legs. You see its twitching limbs and the
glittering facets of its eyes, and then it is upon you.
snatching your sword from your scabbard you try to
gefend yourself against its claws, but you are too slow,
<nife-sharp talons clutch you and throw you to the
ground, Lose 4 STAMINA points.

You despair of escaping with your life, but the thing
draws back, as if to enjoy the sight of you reeling with
pain, You hear its voice like an icy whisper in your
drain: ‘We have the scent of your blood, human. We
will find you again.’ When you look up the monster has
disappeared, Add 1 point to your TRAIL score.

Nursing your wounds you trudge towards the frees. It
:s as well that you cast a wary eye behind you from
sume to time: the monster, or another like it, is beginning
<0 reappear. This time you decide not to wait and nm
cor the shelter of the forest. Turn to 44.

130
=ventually you reach the top of the cliff, but crossing
she terrain ahead of you looks even more difficult than
climbing the cliff. The path peters out in a landscape of
Dare crags, shadowed ravines and jagged rocks. There
= no vegetation; the only features are the cylindrical
sowers that are perched on the tallest of the rocky
ceaks. One of the towers, some distance away, is much
larger than the others. Beyond the towers you see

135

another wall of rock — another impossibly tall cliff, atop
which is the third level of this strange world. If you
want to investigate the towers, there is one rising from
a nearby pinnacle of rock; turn to 353. If you would
rather make for the distant cliff, turn to 214.

131

As the Golem pounds towards you, you dart between
the thick clay legs and deliver a powerful blow to its
thigh. Nothing happens; the monster is undamaged
You have no time to think: the mallet is rushing down-
wards again, and you have to dodge, This will not be a
fight: all you can do is dodge the mallet-blows until the
sun begins to dry the Golem’s body and cause the
monster to slow down. Roll one die and add three: this
is the number of times you must dodge before the
Golem slows. Each time you dodge, roll two dice; if the
total is more than your SKILL score, you are struck a
glancing blow that reduces your sTAMINA by 2
points, If you survive, you are rewarded by the sight of
the sun-dried Golem becoming motionless; but behind
the Golem you see something much worse. The hideous
shape of a Spectral Stalker is forming in the air, towering
above you on four fleshless legs. Add 1 point to your
TRAIL score, then Test your Trail score. Roll three dice. If
the total is equal to or more than your TRAIL score,
turn, to 255; if the total is less than your TRAIL score,
turn to 307,

132

132

A golden radiance surrounds the seven objects on the
table as Semeion seems to drift into a trance. The
Spectral Stalkers have been summoned by the evil
wizard Globus,’ he intones in a voice that echoes as if

drawn from a great distance. ‘Globus has set them to
find the Aleph.’

As Semeion’s voice fades, a seven-pointed star appears
in the midst of the objects on the table. Semeion blinks,
shakes his head and smiles. “You are indeed fortunate,’
he says. “You know now that Globus is your enemy
and this Talisman has been granted to you — wear it
always about your neck, for it will help to protect you
against his sorcery.’ Restore 1 point of Lucx and reduce
your TRAIL score by 2 points while you possess the
Talisman. You thank Semeion and ask him if he can
give you any information about Globus. Turn to 308.
133

133

Having muzzled the Silica Serpent and bound up its
diaphanous wings, the Ophidians tum their attentions
to you. Soon you are cocooned in ropes and slung from
a pole which two Ophidians carry between them with
ease. You see little of your journey except for the
boulders that pass beneath you, but you are aware that
the Ophidians are bringing the Silica Serpent with
them. The Ophidians stop at the foot of a sheer wall of
rock which they intend to climb. A concerted burst of
music from their pipes is sufficient to make the Silica
Serpent temporarily docile, and they release its wings
so that it can hover alongside them as they climb
upwards. As you have no wings they are obliged to
carry you. As you are still bound in ropes you can do
nothing to prevent yourself being dashed against out-
crops of rock — lose 2 points of sTAMINA, Within
minutes the foot of the escarpment is far beneath you
and then you are dragged over a stone lip and into the
mouth of a cave. Two tunnels lead away into the
darkness; you are carried along the left-hand passage
and into a cavern full of tethered Silica Serpents, each
one guarded by several Ophidians, Turn to 54.

134

134
ou succeed in snatching the Aleph from the Tyrant’s
=zasping hands and run from the chamber and down
zark spiral stairs. You hear the old creature blundering
2ter you, muttering curses, and from the bottom of the
"ower you hear the echoes of doors slamming shut. The
snly way to escape is to use the Aleph: turn to 365.

135-136

135
You are in a thick forest. The canopy of trees shuts out

mast of the daylight; the undergrowth hampers your
movements. You start walking and are soon approach-
img a rough road that runs through the forest. You have
almost reached the road when you hear footsteps.
(Crouching behind a bush, you see a lone figure trudging
abong the road — a young man with a small harp slung
an his back. You assume he is a Minstrel. Before you
can greet him, you hear heavy footfalls. Striding along
ie road from the other direction comes a gigantic,
ungainly, two-legged lizard, ridden by a brutish warrior
with the face of a boar. When the boar-face spies the
Bfinstrel, he urges his mount inte a charge. Instead of
moaning away or defending himself, the Minstrel un-
skngs his harp — which starts to play and sing by itself!
The effect on the boar-face is instant: he sways in his
saddle and almost falls. The Minstrel draws his sword
finish off his helpless attacker, but another boar-face
approaches on another giant lizard and you can hear
the heavy tread of a third. Will you remain hidden (turn
ip 233) or come to the Minstrels aid (turn to 265)?

136
Wrong! roars the doorway. ‘Utterly wrong! Why,
_fpolish intruder, you have only to look at the beautiful
_ wed intricately-worked carvings that adom the apex of
ary framework! There you will see my crowns. Regard
them now: this will be the last sight your eyes will see!’
Tum to 41.

137-138

137

A nervous squeal from the Baron’s daughter alerts you
to the silent opening of the cabin’s inner door. The
black-cloaked Conjuror stands on the threshold, his
malevolent grin revealing a set of sharp teeth. His
sibilant words confirm your fear that he is a Vampire
‘A very successful expedition,’ he whispers, ‘Not only
have I captured the Baron’s daughter — you, my dear,
will come to my castle and become one of the loveliest
of my undead brides — but I have snared an intruder
whose blood will sustain me on my journey. Approach
me, warrior. Look into my eyes!

You are in a desperate plight. If you want to throw
open the exterior door of the cabin and leap from the
careering wagon, tum to 289. If you have a silver
dagger in your backpack, you may use it to attack the
Vampire — turn to 231. Otherwise, you will have to
defend yourself as best you can — turn to 382.

138

‘So,’ growls the robed Vaskind, ‘you are a friend of the
cruel dictator Globus. One of his spies, no doubt, sent
to the lower levels to check that his subjects are cowed
and subservient. We should kill you; but we are a race
of warriors and we remember the honourable codes of
our distant homeland. We will expel you from the
dome; if you survive and reach the surface, take this
message to your master: We do not fear you, Globus, and
when our Queen returns she will lead us to our revenge
against you! Now, guards — take this creature away!’

You are carried, struggling, to the edge of the dome

139-140

As you are forced through the clinging membrane, you
take a last gulp of warm air before you are plunged into
the icy waters. If you have any Siccator, and think it
might be useful now, turn to 357; if not, tun to 19.

139

You retreat towards the gaping mouth of the stone
skull as the two soldiers clamber on to the dais and
advance towards you. They are emaciated, almost like
skeletons, with pale skin stretched tightly over their
bones and eyes that gleam like their leader's. They
move slowly, but wield their black battle-axes with
unnatural ease, One of them is almost upon you: you
must fight,

SKELETAL WARRIOR

As you fight, you are too preoccupied to heed the
strange disturbance in the air above you. The Spectral
Stalkers are beginning to recognize the patterns of your
mental energy: add 1 point to your TRAIL score. If
you defeat the first Skeletal Warrior, there is no respite:
the second is facing you, and more are climbing on to
the stone ledge. You cannot fight them all. You must
surrender (turn to 85), or try to escape by running into
the mouth of the stone skull (turn to 348).

SKILL 9 STAMINA 4

140
When you drop through the trapdoor you find yourself
a the end of a tunnel. Following the tunnel round a
comer, you find that it ends at a wooden door. You
Push it open to reveal a small, empty room whose walls
glow with an eerie light. You step into the room, and

14I-142

the door closes behind you. Nothing else happens,
though, so you decide to study the glowing walls, The
walls and ceiling of the room are covered with 2
revolting fungus: thick folds of sickly white lumps tha?
give off a pallid luminescence and a stench of rotting
food. The door you entered through is covered with
the stuff, so much so that you can hardly make it oui
There is another door, equally blanketed with fungus
in the opposite wall, You will have to clear at leas:
some of the fungus from this door, Will you peel of
the disgusting stuff with your bare hands (turn to 347

hack at it with your sword (turn to 48); or, if you have
a Heatsword, will you try to burn the fungus from the
door (turn to 181)?

141
Dodging the first boulder-breaking blow of the Golem’s
mallet, you sprinkle the Siccator in a wide arc (cross it
from your Adventure Sheet), The drops of liquid sparkle
in the air — and fall to the ground between the Golem’s
massive feet, You missed, and the Golem, still slick
with water, attacks you again. One blow from his hand
sends you sprawling in the dust — lose 2 STAMINA
paints. You stagger to your feet, You have only twe
options: run (turn to 13) or fight (turn to 131),

142
The iridescent monster is a Silica Serpent. It raises its
head and utters a piercing screech, whereupon the
Wood Elves approach and kneel in a row before it, In
turn, each EIf reaches forward hesitantly and plucks one
of the Serpent's glittering scales from the top of its

143-144

>ead; then all four nim off, capering and joking as they
cisplay the hard-won scales tike trophies in their hats.
“fore Silica Serpents wheel down from the skies to
aspect the netted captive, then two of them lift the net
=to the air and the others escort them aloft. You watch
entil the flock of Serpents is no more than a speck in
=ne sky, then head towards the towering cliffs. Turn to
=90,

143

the Talisman, hanging on its chain around your neck,
segins to pulse with a light that is almost as bright as
te dazzling beam which is crushing you. The pain
seems to recede a little, as if the Talisman were absorb-
=g some of the beam’s strength. Although you can feel
yourself beginning to slip away into unconsciousness,
vou cling to the hope that the Talisman will enable you
70 survive the inexorable pressure. Roll three dice. If
=e total is less than your sTAMINA, turn to 212; if
=e total is equal to, or greater than, your STAMINA,
cam to 372.

144
‘ou pull the furled Umbrella from your backpack.
Grondel asks you what it is, but you merely smile and
“2!| him to shuffle as close to you as his shackles will
slow. The large-eyed Elves in the courtyard stare in
wonder at the strange device. On the dais above you,
=e Elven priest’s incantations reach a loud climax,
Tnere are a few seconds of silence before you hear the
sagling rumble of water rushing through old pipes.
“oth one swift movement you put up the Umbrella and

145

Bold it aloft. As the sheet of liquid splashes all round
you, you manage to remain dry, though a few drops
solash on to your legs, and a little of the water seeps
through your boots. The merest touch of the liquid
turns skin and flesh rotten, and there is no cure. Roll
ome die, and deduct the result from your current and
your Initial STAMINA. If you are still alive, you wait
ontil the last drops of water have dripped from the
spout, then you take down the Umbrella and grin
victoriously to the amazed crowd. Tum to 245.

14

You find yourself in a small chamber made entirely of
gowing, interconnected rods. Through them you can
see that the chamber is inside a complicated mechanism
ot whirring cogs and humming bulbs of light. One side
«x the chamber is open, and beyond the opening you
can see a room crammed with other mechanical devices.
Tae walls are covered with bookshelves and complex
quarts. A bizarre figure trundles into view — a humanoid,
wou decide, but only just. Riding on a self-propelled
cart with four wheels, the robed being is extremely
nin, so that his torso looks too small and weak to
support his huge bald head. Long metal fingers protrude
Tom the sleeves of the robe, wire meshes bulge from
me sides of his head where you would expect ears to
ze and round glass lenses sit in his eye-sockets. ‘A
wsitor!’ he cies in a piping voice. ‘Tt is such a long time
smice | last had a visitor. Quickly, step from the machine
wnile you may!’ Will you emerge from the chamber
‘him to 253), or stay inside it (turn to 42)?
146-147

146

The path winds for hours along the face of the cliff
before it finally takes you upward again. At last you
reach the top of the cliff, and look across a barren
landscape of rocks and gullies that rise in a series of
escarpments and culminate, in the distance, in another
dizzying cliff. As you set off towards this distant goal,
you notice a few Silica Serpents wriggling across the
turquoise sky and as you walk further into the heart of
this desolate land more appear. You begin to fear that
this part of the Ziggurat World is their home and that
they are bound to detect your presence. Sure enough,
one of the scaly creatures undulates from above and
Jands on the path in a gully ahead of you. You hesitate,
uncertain of what to do next and realize that the Silica
Serpent is in difficulties. Its wings have been snagged
by something and it cannot take off again. Will you
approach it (turn to 184), or conceal yourself and wait
to see what happens next (turn to 229)?

147

The door swings open and you step across the threshold
into the room. Without warning, a bucket of water falls
from the top of the door: you are drenched and the
bucket strikes your head as it falls. Lose 1 STAMINA
point. You shake the water out of your eyes and see
that you are in a small room full of half-dismantled
machines. A big man, so tall that he almost has to stoop
in this low-ceilinged room, is leaning against a high
backed chair and laughing so much that his eyes are as
full of water as yours,

148-149

‘Oh dear, oh dear, he guffaws. ‘I didn’t think anybody
fell for that old bucket above the door trick these days.
That's cheered me up no end! You look like a drowned
rat! I’m Wayland, in case you're wondering, and you're
obviously a visitor. Where do you hail from?’ Will you
attack this sniggering practical joker (turn to §9), or
will you restrain your anger and reply to his question
turn to 103)?

148

The tunnel is almost completely dark but you can see a
glimmer of light in the distance. You head towards it
and finally arrive at a small chamber with two closed
doors. Round one of the doors there is a crack of light
— the glimmer that you saw from afar — suggesting that
the room beyond is occupied; beyond the other door
there seerns to be only darkness. Will you choose to try
the door with light beyond it (turn to 324), or the door
to darkness (turn to 202)?

149

The sheer cliff towers above you. The rays of the
morning sun penetrate only a little distance into the
tunnel beyond the portal, but once you have plunged
into the gloom you are relieved to find that the darkness
ss alleviated at intervals by thin beams of grey light
that emanate from chimneys and fissures in the roof of
the tunnel You tum to take a last look at the distant
mountains and, shielding your eyes against the sunlight,
you make out a symbol - a triangle surmounted by a
arcle — carved into the lintel above the inside of the
portal. You turn again and press on into the near-
darkness. Turn to 15.

150-151

1§0

The Wood Elves jabber amongst themselves as you try
to explain your unexpected appearance. It seems that
they have never seen a human being before — or at
least not here — and they come to the conclusion that
your story is unbelievable and that you are a spy.
Although they all agree that you must be disposed of,
they are reluctant fighters, but in the end two of them
step forward, drawing their shortswords as they ad-
vance. You can fight them one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
First WOOD ELF 8 6
Second WOOD ELF 7 7

Add 1 point to your TRAIL score. If you defeat them
both, the two survivors run off into the woods. You
ignore them and tum your attention to the captive in
the net. Turn to 125.

151
As soon as you touch one of the coloured switches a
shrill bell starts to ring. “Unauthorized use of transporter!
the voice in the air shrieks again. ‘Transporter settings
altered’ You flick a few more switches, press some
illuminated buttons and jump on the platform, which
immediately begins to glow. A cloud of light envelops
you, but you are able to see one of the room’s metallic
walls sliding upwards to reveal a nightmarish monster
of steel and glass; and then the scene fades as you feel
yourself being transported. Roll one die. If you roll:

1§2

1 Turn to 105
2 Turn to 115
3 Turn to 126
4 Turn to 135
5 Turn to 14§
6 Turn to 234

152
The tunnel ends at a wooden door. Cautiously you pull
it open to reveal a small cave which is clearly a store
cupboard for the Ophidians’ equipment. Spears are
stacked against the wall and coils of rope and several
suits of glassy black armour hang from hooks. You take
down the shortest suit of armour and try it on. Although
you manage to fasten the plates of black glass round
your limbs and torso you find that your movements are
restricted. However, you do discover the secret of the
Ophidians’ prodigious ability to climb sheer surfaces:
the gauntlets of the armour are fitted with retractable
metal hooks. If you think Ophidian armour will be
useful you can wear it from now on; deduct 1 point
fom your sKILL because of your hampered move-
ments (and if you have Cerod the Harp you must
abandon him here as you cannot carry him while wear-
ing the armour). Whether you wear the armour or not,
you can take the set of pipes that hangs from the belt, if
you wish. (Record these changes on your Adventure
Sheet) You take a coil of rope to the mouth of the cave
and tie one end to a boulder, throwing the rest down
the escarpment to assist your descent. If you are wear-
mg Ophidian armour you find the rope unnecessary, as
the retractable hooks make climbing simple; but which-
ever way you do it, you reach the foot of the rock face
153

without incident. Restore 1 point of Luck, You set off
towards the vast cliffs that rise from this level of the
Ziggurat World to the next. Turn to 4.

153
You manage to free yourself from the sticky filaments —

but too late. Even as you turn to flee, the Spider's
mandibles meet in the flesh of your thigh, releasing
their venom into your veins. Spurred on by the pain,
you dash through the first exit from the courtyard that
you can see. It is only as you stagger through the dark
tunnels that you begin to feel the effects of the poison:
roll one die, add three to the result and deduct the total
from your STAMINA. If you are still alive, it is worth
finding out where you are going. Roll one die; if the
result is:

1 Tum to 1§
2 Turn to 367
3 Turn to 317
4 Turn to 285
5 or 6 Roll again

T$4-155

154

A perfectly aimed throw! The ball flies into the Lith-
ogen’s throat and stays there, firmly jammed in place,
in spite of the monster’s great coughs. You see its
‘uminous eyes widen in shock and outrage — and then
chey slowly close, as the creature’s brain is overcome
oy the noxious fumes that are emanating from its great
stomach and can no longer escape through its throat.
You stick your sword into the fleshy tongue to which
your feet are stuck: there is no reaction from the
Lithogen. You cut yourself free, and continue on your
way — turn to 272

155

The chariot is pulled by two black horses with red eyes
and bronze armour. They are whinnying in confusion,
pulling the chariot in circles and trampling the wounded
under their hooves. Several Elves fight their way to-
wards you, but they cannot reach the chariot; the
wheels, glowing with a pale luminescence, seem to
certify them. You can do nothing but cower in the
chariot as the horses career across the moorland.
suddenly a wheel hits a boulder. The axle snaps, you
and the broken wheel are thrown clear and the horses
drag the wreckage into the distance.

You recover your breath, and inspect the wheel: its
luminosity comes from the circular, rune-engraved
oronze cover of the hub, The metal roundel is appar-
ently dangerous to Elves, but it causes you no harm. (If
you keep it, make a note on your Adventure Sheet.) You
scan the landscape: you are alone. You take the Aleph
156

from your pack and lose yourself in studying its myriad
moving pictures. It seems to expand and surround you.
Roll one die: if you roll an even number, tum to 51; if
you roll an odd number, turn to 36.

156

You are staring down into a steep-sided gorge, Hun-
| dreds of metres below you, in the cleft between the
____ thickly-wooded cliffs, you make out the silver ribbon of

a fast-flowing stream. You look up: the cliffs rise above

you and on the far side of the gorge, the sky a thin strip

of blue between the craggy cliff-tops. You are on a
____ narrow path that meanders precariously along the mid-

point of one of the sides of the gorge. You have no

choice but to walk — carefully — along it.

You walk for hours. You meet no one, and see no sign

| of habitation. Dusk is falling, and the bottom of the
gorge is already hidden in inky darkness, when you
round a bend and see that your way is blocked by a
grim fortress. The path ends at a doorway beneath a
turetted gatehouse. Approaching cautiously, you see

; that the castle is derelict and apparently deserted. There
are gaps in the battlements, and fallen blocks of stone
lie scattered across the path. Then, suddenly, flickering
lights spring into life behind the arrow-slits. A moving

; shape — the silhouette of a child — appears on the
battlements and the silence is broken by an eerie scream.
If you want to follow the path through the forbidding
castle doorway, turn to 391. If not, you must use the
Aleph to take you away — tum to 61

ee )|=6e

1§7-159

157

As you crash through the undergrowth you can heaz
the music of the harp calling to you. With your hands
pressed to your ears, you ignore the brambles tha?
catch your legs and the branches that whip across your
face, and eventually the insidious melody fades, You
have escaped the Minstrel’s enchantment — but now
you are lost in the depths of a trackless forest. You
have no choice but to use the Aleph to transport you
elsewhere. Turn to gt.

158

You hold the gem between your fingers and slowly
raise it before the monster’s face. It begins to mew:
piteously and edges towards you, You put up ne
resistance when, with a growl, it lashes out with one o!
its clumsy, ill-fitted limbs and snatches the jewel from
your grasp. It shuffles away from you and drops in 2
tangle of arms and legs on to its bedding. It only has
eyes for its bright new plaything (cross the gem from:
your Adventure Sheet). The hybrid creature does no?
notice as you leave through the door at the far end o:
the room. Turn to 258.

159
As hungry as you are, you dare not risk eating the
innkeeper’s food. If you have Provisions of your own in
your backpack, you can eat a meal and restore up to 4
points of STAMINA, You lie down on the mattress anc
drift into sleep, lulled by the soft lapping of the river
beneath your room. Turn to 195.

160-162

160
s<anding squarely in the path of the charging Colepod,
you wait until it is almost upon you before aiming your
sword-blow at a point above the creature’s snapping
mandibles and between its waving antennae. Test your
Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 374; if you are Unlucky,
Tum to 210.

161

‘You catch hold of the harness of the leading war-beast
and pull yourself clear of the ground, hanging on
srimly as the hunt races across the parkland. You are
close to the armoured knee of the beast’s giant rider
and expect him to try to dislodge you from your
Precatious position, but you look up to find that his
race is as unmoving as a statue’s. Next to you, hanging
2y a strap, is the giant’s hunting-horn, fashioned from
cae spiral horn of an animal and decorated with bands
of silver. The hunt has spread out now and you can
<rop to the ground without fear of being trampled. As
you release your hold on the hamess, you grab the
som, You hit the grass, roll forward, and then jump to
wour feet to inspect your new acquisition. It looks
valuable (note it on your Adventure Sheet), If you want
“0 sound the horn, to find out what noise it makes, turn
*0 209; if not, you stow it in your backpack and turn to
358.

162
ou choose the path that leads directly towards the
+ itreous Citadel. On this route there is just one Silica
Serpent between you and your goal. As you approach
163-164

the monster you see that it is tied, by means of a chain
round its neck leading to an iron hoop set into the
centre of the path, but it is otherwise free to rend you,
bite you and spray you with its acidic venom. It will
not be easy to pass this sentry. If you have a set of
Ophidian pipes, turn to 288; if not, turn to 343.

163
The Logic Dog cannot be defeated. Not only is it
stronger and faster than any fighting-dog you have
encountered, but if you are skilful enough to strike it, it
disappears into the air a second before your blow lands
— only to reappear, a second later, behind you. But you
cannot escape, so you fight on hopelessly.

LOGIC DOG

After three Attack Rounds, during which you have
been unable to hit the Logic Dog even once, you are
becoming resigned — if you are still alive — to the fact
that your death is imminent. At that moment a voice
calls from above: ‘Enough, Logic! Hold back now! Our
uninvited visitor has learnt that the garden is well
guarded. [ will come down and find out what this
warrior wants.’ The Logic Dog disappears and this time
does not reappear. Add 1 point to your TRAIL score,
and turn to 282.

SKILL 10

164
You walk for hours between the never-ending book-
shelves. In the distance you see a notice, hanging from
chains that disappear into the darkness of the ceiling.
As you approach, you can make out the words Lost

;

165

Property and the symbol of a hand pointing downwards.
When you reach the notice, you see that in a gap
between the bookshelves a narrow staircase descends
from the corridor. If you decide to walk down the
stairs, turn to 127. If you decide to continue along the
corridor, turn to 373

165

The ball misses the Lithogen’s throat and hits the
creature somewhere below its eyes — on its nose,
perhaps, although in the darkness you cannot see
whether it actually has one. With a convulsive cough,
the Lithogen vomits a second gush of digestive fluid,
which begins to eat away your clothing and exposed
skin. Lose 2 points of STAMINA. If you are still alive,
you have no choice but to try to cut your way out.
Turn to 341.

166-167

166

On the dais above you the Elven priest's incantations
reach a loud climax. You hear the gurgling rumble of
water rushing through old pipes, and a sheet of liquid
splashes all round you. The poisoned water soaks
through your clothes and into your skin, then you, and
Grondel beside you, are screaming in horror as you feel
your flesh and muscle begin to disintegrate, Your adven-
ture ends here.

167

The rustling and twittering noises are closing in all
round you. Your imagination conjures up all kinds of
horrors as you feel scores of fangs nipping your flesh.
In this complete darkness, you dare not mm, but you
must make what speed you can — but in which direction?
If you decide to continue onwards into the cave, hoping
to stumble across an exit at the far end, tum to 293; if
you tum back, and try to retrace your steps to the
door, turn to 244.

168

168

Your probing fingers encounter a carving in the centre
of the wall that blocks the tunnel. Peering in the dim
light you make out a curious figure, something like an
abstract representation of a face that is also a small
maze (see the diagram). The ‘mouth’ of the design
contains the word WELCOME, while each of the two
‘eyes’ consists of a depression within which there is a
button that can be pressed inwards.

Will you press the button in the right ‘eye’ (tum to
290), the one in the left ‘eye’ {turn to 216), or will you
do nothing and wait for something to happen (turn to

95)?
169

169
You spin around to face your next opponent, but the
Feliti are slinking away through the grass, yowling and
casting fearful glances at the dark sky. You look up, and
stare in horror at the ghostly image that is spreading
across the firmament — a Spectral Stalker! Its faceted
eyes glint as it turns its tentacled head this way and
that, tirelessly searching for you and the Aleph. Then,
like smoke in a gust of wind, the image dissolves and
you are alone on the plain once more. Add 1 point to
your TRAIL score, and decide what to do next:
retum to the walled garden (turn to 334); make for the
fortress that you saw from the garden (turn to 379); or
use the Aleph to take you away from this strange
world (turn to 365).

170

170

You hear the sound of many feet and at first you fear a
stampede of Colepods, but the strange beings that
canter through the grass to surround you are Mantirs,
the owners and shepherds of the Colepod herds. Like a
Colepod, a Mantir resembles a giant insect, with a
shell-like carapace and antennae waving from his fore-
head; but he walks upright, on only four legs, his
foremost pair of limbs serving as arms. Each Mantir
calTies a spear and wears headgear as protection from
the heat that beats upon the shadeless plains, and each
has fashioned the knob of bone at the end of his tail
into a spiked weapon of devastating effect. The Mantir
herdsmen are as astounded by your appearance as they
are impressed by the fact that you have slaughtered
their rogue Colepod with a single blow. Their leader
addresses you in a fluting voice that you can barely
understand. He says that although you are a valiant
warrior with whom the Mantir people have no guarrel,
nonetheless a Colepod is a valuable beast. As you have
killed one of the largest in the herd you must make
restitution. If you will not pay for the Colepod, the
Mantir says that his tribal law will oblige him to
challenge you to a duel. Will you pay the Mantir (tum
to 270) or accept the duel (turn to 223)?

; Ter

Sot tt

171

171
You are standing in a flat meadow divided by lines of
flags into forty-nine squares. Most of the squares are
empty, but six contain the bodies of slain warriors. You
are holding a long, steel-pointed pike — and you quickly
find that you cannot loosen your grip on the weapon.
At your back, extending from your heels to the crown
of your head, you feel the weight of a plate of iron,
held in place by straps across your shoulders, chest and
thighs. The font of your body is unprotected: your
only garment is a white tunic. You see that four of the
bodies are wearing identical tunics; the other two bodies
wear black tunics. Apart from you, there are two other
surviving warriors in white tunics; they look dispirited
and battle-weary. Five warriors in black tunics appear
ferocious and jubilant. Each warrior is standing, as you
are, in a separate square, and each wears a plate of solid
metal on his back.

‘You have placed your last pawn, Drawenna,’ a male
voice booms across the sky, ‘and still my forces out-
Tumber yours. Are you beginning to regret that you
those this method of resolving our dispute? Soon I will
win; and you, and all your lands, will be mine. Resign
yourself to it, my soon-to-be-wife!’

A woman's voice echoes somewhere above the clouds.
‘Never, Burud!’ she says in a voice quivering with rage.
1 still have a chance to win!’

“You deceive yourself, Drawenna’ the male voice
drawls, ‘but I will humour you. Let us play on. One of
your pawns must move.’
172-173

‘Do not be impatient, Burud,’ the woman’s voice replies
‘I have first to teach my latest recruit the rules of battle.
The clouds part and a ray of sunlight illuminates the
square that you occupy. Drawenna’s voice explains tc
you the rules of this strange game. Turn to 81,

172
‘Stubbom imbecile!’ Globus bellows. ‘If you will noi
give me the Aleph, I have the power to take it. Have
you forgotten my demonic hunters? I have only te
summon the Spectral Stalkers and they will destroy
you. Their task done, they will be free; you will be deac
and I will have the Aleph. Is that the end you seek’
Give me the Aleph, and live.’

You make no reply. Globus continues to plead with
you, but at last realizes he has no alternative but to
summon his nightmarish servants. He traces a pattern
in the air and looks on with trepidation in his face as
four hideous shapes begin to materialize. Will you try
to break into the Prism of Power by using your weapon
(turn to 82); throw the Aleph at the Prism in the hope
that the marvellous sphere can counter Globus’s power
(turn to 268); or will you, at last, agree to the Arch-
mage’s demand and pass the Aleph to him through the
wall of the Prism (turn to 396)?

173
Metron takes the Hunting-Horn and fixes it into a
clamp on a workbench, Many minutes pass while the
Mapmaker busies himself with rulers, protractors, tubes
of coloured fluids and instruments with flashing lights

174-175

and glowing numbers. He consults books from his
“brary, draws a diagram of the hom and writes pages
of notes. ‘An inefficient instrument,’ Metron says as he
returns the horn to you. ‘The basic material is organic,
probably from an animal life-form, and very heavy. It
measures five and one-eighth dronks in length, which is
very wasteful — a more consistent tone could be
oroduced from a simpler instrument less than half that
size” You look suspiciously at the horn. It looks un-
changed, and yet... You put it to your lips and blow
cautiously. A reedy noise emerges and fades when you
stop blowing. The god’s Hunting Horn is now no more
than an ordinary horn — it has no special powers (cross
it from your Adventure Sheet). You complain bitterly to
the Mapmaker that he has destroyed a magical item.
Turn to 375,

174

After several bone-jolting minutes, the Colepod tosses
its head and swerves wildly. You cannot keep your grip
and find yourself flying through the air to land heavily
on the trampled grass. Lose 2 STAMINA points. If you
are still alive, you see the Colepod disappear into the
‘ong grass, After recovering your breath, you stand up.
Turn to 41

175
Well, sit yourself down!’ says Wayland. ‘No! Not
there! That’s the Automatic Impaler, Sit over here.
That’s right. Now then: what can I be doing for you?’

You unwind the cloth that covers the small ball. Grey
176

clouds are covering the ever-changing landscapes in
the sphere, but Wayland recognizes it instantly — and
for several moments he sits open-mouthed in amaze-
ment. ‘By my hammer and anvil!’ he mutters at last.
‘And by all the microparticles in the Macrocosmos! It’s
the Aleph. The one and only sphere of all the spheres!
There in your hand, warrior, you hold everything -
everything that exists, everywhere. Except here in
Limbo, of course. But everything else, everywhere else.
Wise men have hunted this object since the birth of the
universe. You should take it away from here; the Aleph
cannot reside in Limbo. But I beg you, tell me how you
came by it.

If you want to leave the Library in Limbo, Wayland
allows you to return to the book-lined corridor — turn
to 27. If you tell Wayland how you received the
Aleph, tur to 267.

176
The energy you are expending as you fight the Silica
Serpent is attracting the attention of your demonic
pursuers. Add 1 point to your TRAIL score. The Serpent
senses something amiss; its huge black eyes tum this
way and that and it shuffles backwards on its myriad
legs. You seize your opportunity and deliver it a fatal
blow. But as you watch the Serpent's dying convulsions,
a shadow darkens the Crystal Garden. You look up.
The hideous shape of a Spectral Stalker is forming in
the air! As it materializes, its eyes search back and forth,
and its tentacles seem to be sensing your scent on the
air. Test your Trail score. Roll three dice. If the total is

177-178

equal to, or more than, your TRAIL score, tum to 17; if
the total is less than your TRAIL score, turn to 400.

177

You jump from the stage and the crowd parts in front
of you. Behind you, the Conjuror is shouting. ‘Stop that
warrior!’ he orders. ‘Without the stranger I cannot bring
back the Baron’s daughter!’ With a roar, the crowd
tums to pursue you. The Baron’s coachman whips his
horses and sets off in pursuit too. You are in a small
town; old buildings and marrow streets surround you.
Hounded by the mob, and increasingly desperate (add
1 point to your TRAIL score), you race across the
cobbles and double-back along dark alleys. At last you
manage to put some distance between yourself and
your pursuers and you find yourself back in the town
square. The Conjuror’s wagon is in front of you and
Felice is holding the reins and urging on the team of
black stallions. If you want to run and jump on to the
back of the wagon, tum to 24. Otherwise, with the
sounds of pursuit approaching, you have no choice but
to use the Aleph to leave this place and go elsewhere —
turn to 63.

178
You cannot hope to win this fight but you know that
you can expect no mercy from the Black Shadows.
Soon a pile of black corpses lies at your feet, but they
have inexhaustible reinforcements, while your sTAM-
iNA is all too finite, and you are engulfed by a wall of
flapping, leathery bodies. If you have more than 4

points of sTAMINA, you manage to keep struggling
179-180

for a while; but eventually your sTAMINA is reduced
to 4 and you begin to falter. Then — add 1 point to
your TRAIL score — the Black Shadows begin to
screech in fear, and back away from you As they fall
back you see the hideous shape of a Spectral Stalker
forming in the air. As it materializes its eyes search
back and forth, and its writhing mass of tentacles seems
to be sensing your scent on the air. Test your Trail score.
Roll three dice. If the total is equal to, or greater than.
your TRAIL score, turn to 7; if the total is less than
your TRAIL score, tum to 300.

179

Semeion gazes perplexedly at the objects on the table.
‘These signs have a meaning,’ he says at last, ‘but all
they tell me is that the Spectral Stalkers have been
summoned and set on a quest by a powerful and evil
sorcerer. We could have guessed as much. I can advise
you only to be on your guard against wizards — and }
am sure you do not need me to tell you thatt’

‘Globus is presumably a wizard of some sort,’ you
reply. ‘Can you tell me more about him?’ Semeion
readily agrees to try. Turn to 308.

180
Sand dunes stretch in every direction. Scrubby bushes
grow in the hollows, tough grass waves in clumps on
the rounded summits. At the edge of a distant pool of
water stands a village; the huts, on wooden stilts, are
made of reeds and leaves. On the edge of the village
you pass through an abandoned market, its rickety

181

stalls empty and covered with dust. Then you see that
one stall is still in use: only a few items are on display,
but they are quite remarkable. They look like roughly-
made candles, apparently formed out of clay, but each
has a tip that glows brightly enough to be visible in full
daylight. The old woman behind the stall begs you to
buy one; and if you have a Gold Piece to spare, you
may do so. (Record the transaction on your Adventure
Sneet.) She tells you that these few Glowcandles are all
that remains of her village’s wealth and possessions.
Mayrek the Potter, the hermit who makes the Glow-
candles and other wonderful things, has not been seen
for months. Men from the village have gone to look for
him — but they have not returned. Will you go to the
village and offer to help the villagers (turn to 66)? Or
will you turn away and set off across the dunes in the
opposite direction (turn to 117)?

181
You pull the Heatsword from its scabbard and apply
the blade to the folds of fungus. The sword looks just
lke an ordinary weapon but the blade must be as hot as
a furnace, for the fungus blackens and shrivels all round
& Soon you can see wooden panels behind the smould-
eting fungus and within minutes you think you will be
able to clear the whole door. However, you are becom-
mg engulfed in the clouds of black smoke given off by
the incinerated fungus. You cannot breathe; you stagger
and fall to your knees. Your only hope is to find a way
Srough the door before the smoke poisons you. Roll
tour dice. If the total is less than, or equal to, your

182-184

STAMINA, turn to 274; if the total is more than your
STAMINA, turn to go.

182
‘A weapon?’ Semeion asks in astonishment. ‘I am a
reader of signs, not an armourer, But let me think — I
had a visitor once, long ago, who left a sword behind
when he left. | will see if I can find it.’ You wait in the
garden for a long time, listening to crashes and thumps
come from all sides of the courtyard as Semeion searches
every room. At last he emerges carrying a plain sword
in a scabbard, ‘Found it!’ he says. ‘It’s a very ordinary
sword, as far as I can tell. But if you think it will help
you, by all means take it.’ If you have no weapon you
can take the sword and restore 2 points of SKILL.
You then decide that you must take your leave of
Semeion and, gazing into the Aleph, you allow yourself
to become lost within its teeming worlds. Turn to 234.

183

Lying in the grass at your feet is a large Hunting-Horn,
fashioned from the spiral hom of an animal and decor-
ated with silver bands. You must have pulled it from
the harness of the leading war-beast. It is an impressive
item, and looks valuable (if you decide to keep it,
record it on your Adventure Sheet). If you want to sound
the horn, turn to 209; if not, you stow it in your
backpack and turn to 358.

184
As you approach the Silica Serpent you see that the
creature has become entangled in a web of fine wires

185

that seems to have been set in the gulley for this very
purpose. The creature’s desperate contortions are wind-
ing the wires ever more tightly about its long, glittering
body. It is so preoccupied that it fails to notice you
until you are only a few paces away. The Serpent stops
moving. You see yourself reflected in its huge black
eves. Then its head darts forward and it spits a jet of
liquid at you. Roll two dice: if the total is less than your
SKILL, turn to 94; if the total is equal to or more than
yOur SKILL, tum to 240.

185

On the other side of the doorway you stumble down a
step and into a vaulted corridor. At the other end is a
doorway identical to the one you have just stepped
through. A counter runs along one side of the corridor,
and behind it is a room containing rows of empty
hatstands. Asleep on the counter is an old Dwarf. He
opens one eye as you approach.

‘Good day, I suppose,’ he grumbles. ‘And I hope you
had a fruitful visit to the Library in Limbo. Don’t bother
to tell me, I don’t really care. If you left a cloak or a hat
on your way in, don't try asking me for it. This is the
way out, and I haven’t got anything of anybody’s.
There’s the door from Nowhere to Somewhere.’

‘But to where, exactly?’ you ask.

‘Exactly anywhere you like. Of course, if you want to
go somewhere particular, it helps to think about it
while you're walking through the door.’

You stride to the doorway and step across the thresh-
186—187

ald. Do you fill your mind with thoughts of your home
world, Khul (turn to §1); do you try to imagine the
Zigeurat World (tum to 234); or do you think about
your mysterious burden, the Aleph, and rely on its
influence to choose your destination (turn to 21)?

186

Atter only a few minutes of following the twists and
curs of this passage, you realize that it is unlike any
that you have so far encountered in the maze. For one
ching, it seems to be sloping downwards; for another, it
is completely dark — there is not a single crack of light
‘0 be seen. Feeling your way with outstretched hands,
you grope round yet another corner — and almost cry
cut in fear as you come face to face with a glowing
skeleton, It stands in front of you, barring the tunnel
with the spear it clutches in its bony hands. It is dressed
2s a warrior and you wonder whether it is the ghost of
3n adventurer who died while lost in the maze. Apart
om the occasional shake of its spear, it makes no
move against you. You decide to step forward, but as
soon as you move the skeleton speaks, in a slurred
monotone. ‘Come not this way!’ it orders. "This way
danger lies, and certain death. Turn back! Begone’

Will you turn back (turn to 257), or will you advance
cowards the skeleton (turn to 385)?

187
You step over a threshold and find yourself in a small
chamber with a doorway in each of its four walls. One,
2s usual, is marked with the circle and triangle symbol.

188189

The doorway opposite it is marked with an arrow
pointing downwards; through this doorway you can
see a stairway leading down into the ground. You face
the usual symbol and decide which doorway to take:

The door before you Tum to 224
The door behind you Turn to 297
The door to your right Turn to 329
The door to your left Turn to 26

188
Squatting beside the path, you pick up a small pebble
and tap the clay ball. Nothing happens. You tap harder
and the ball disintegrates into tiny fragments of baked
clay. You search among the pieces for the object that
was inside the ball, but you find nothing except for a
handful of grey dust, which is soon blown away by the
breeze. You sense that you have lost something of the
utmost importance; lose 1 point of Luck. You look
around at the hills and the landscape of dunes below.
There seems to be no choice but to use the Aleph to
leave this place. Turn to arr.

189

You are in the entrance hall of the Vitreous Citadel.
You stand and stare in confused wonderment at the
cavernous chamber which, with mirrored walls and
bumished ceiling, seems to extend into infinite distance
in all directions. Through one of the many doorways
you see the strange turquoise sky of the Ziggurat
World, and you assume that if you walk through a
doorway that leads in the opposite direction you will

190

reach the centre of the Citadel. You set off along
corridors of marble and glass whose only inhabitants
are angular crysta] statues, and at last you reach a
Grcular antechamber. Facing you ate two doorways
Beyond one all is darkness; through the other, you can
see the edge of a huge, semi-transparent cube bathed in
dim green light Will you go through the dark doorway
turn to 118), or into the room containing the huge
cube (turn to 302)?

190

You walk towards the cliffs for hours, but they seem to
draw no closer. However, the terrain is much hillier
now and covered with trees. You head for an isolated
peak that is higher than the other hills and, when you
reach the summit, proceed to climb up into the branches
of a tall tree. From this position you have a panoramic
view of the landscape. Behind you is the wall of cliffs,
its foot still some distance away. To your right, the hills
drop suddenly to a sandy coastline, beyond which an
expanse of water stretches to the horizon. In front of
you are the woods through which you have been
walking. And to your left the woodland clears, and
beyond the trees you can see a vast extent of grassy
plains. You can see no way of ascending the cliff-face;
therefore, to explore new territory you will have to
walk towards the water (turn to 92) or towards the
plains (turn to 116). Alternatively, you may use the
Aleph to take you elsewhere (turn to 2).

IQI—19g2

Igl

Grasping the arrow-shaft with both hands, you brace
your feet against Syzuk’s ribcage and pull with all your
might. The arrow springs from the warlord’s shoulder-
joint and you fall on to your back. Syzuk picks up his
sword and gives you a ghastly grin. “Thank you, fool
he snarls. “Your act of kindness will not save you. Now
nothing can save my enemies on this battlefield. On.
my warriors! Destroy them all! Let none live! We will
perform Glund’s sacrificial ritual at the summit of a
mountain of corpses!’ Your only chance is to attack
Syzuk while he is still weak from his wound. You
launch yourself at his back.

SYZUK

If you defeat him, you hear a chorus of despairing cries
from the ranks of Skeletal Warriors. The battle becomes
fiercer as their opponents counter-attack and the chariot
is caught in a ferocious skirmish. You kick Syzuk’s body
out of it and try to control the war-horses. Turn to

SKILL 8 STAMINA 10

192

You lift the trapdoor and lead the way into the gloomy
interior of the tower. The room below the turret is
unguarded and contains the belongings of the captives
— including their weapons. Armed with Elven bows,
Vaskind swords and Mantir spears, your little army
makes short work of the few Black Shadows it meets as
you lead it down through the chambers of the tower.
At last you reach the base of the tower. There are only
two exits from the vaulted crypt, a door which leads to

193-194

the outside and a trapdoor in the floor that must lead to
cellars — or perhaps an underground passage. The Elves,
Mantirs and Vaskind are desperate to return home and
are determined to leave the tower through the door to
the outside. Will you accompany them (turn to 333), or
will you bid ther farewell, and set off alone through
the trapdoor (turn to 140)?

I

Barogkaz stops fighting and stares upwards in amaze-
ment and fear. The hideous shape of a Spectral Stalker
is forming in the air above the courtyard. The Zwinian
lees, and you run in the opposite direction, seeking
shelter from the questing eyes of the Spectral Stalker
You crouch in the doorway of a tower and decide that
you have to use the Aleph to escape. Turn to g1.

194
Your head pounds, your chest seems about to burst and
your limbs are numb with cold. As you feel yourself
slipping into unconsciousness, you clamp a hand over
your face in an attempt to prevent yourself drawing sea
water into your lungs, and pray that you will drift to
the surface of the sea before you pass out. Little by
little, as the murky waters around you become lighter,
the precious air trickles from your lips. You suck in a
gulp of water and in that instant you know you must
drown — and then your head breaks through the waves!
Coughing and spluttering, you drag yourself on to the
beach. You lie there for several minutes, recovering
your breath, but no one comes. You decide, at last, to
195-197

climb the path that zig-zags up the face of the cliff.
Turn to rz.

195
You wake up. Everything is dark: the candle has blown

out and there is no hint of daylight in the chinks of the
shutters. A cold wind, carrying with it the smell of the
river, makes you shiver and you sit up. Then you see
them. A pair of luminous eyes is staring at you from
the middle of the floor. You remember the name of the
inn: the Ghostly Visitors, Are you being watched by a
ghost? For several seconds you remain as still as the
watching eyes; but you have to decide what to do. Will
you throw yourself at the intruder, whatever it is (tum
to 241)? Or will you keep still and watch silently (tum

to 344)?

196

The tunnel spirals downwards becoming ever steeper,
until you can no longer keep your footing. A foul
stench assails your nostrils as you slide helplessly into a
pit of tiny, squirming bodies. You have no way of
knowing that you have fallen into a Shadowlings hat-
chery; but you are soon aware that the little creatures
have an insatiable appetite for blood. You cannot
escape.

197
Stepping backwards, you speak hurriedly as the Logic
Dog advances on you. ‘You're wrong,’ you tell the
dog. ‘1 guessed that you would attack me. If you attack
me now, that will prove that I guessed correctly. And

198-199

you promised that if ] guessed correctly, you would let
me pass. Therefore, now that you have announced that
you are going to attack, you must let me pass.’

The Logic Dog stops in its tracks and its two heads
‘urn to regard each other with dazed expressions. After
a few moments of thought, both heads let out a howl
of frustration ~ and the Dog disappears. A voice hails
you from above: ‘Bravo, stranger! You have done well:
not only have you found the path through my labyrinth,
but you have also defeated my faithful Logic Dog with
its own weapon. I will come down and greet you.’ Turn
tO 282.

198

The knocker raps loudly on the heavy wooden door.
You wait for a reply; nothing happens but the sudden
appearance of a light behind the little glass circle. Then,
in a gravelly voice, the door itself speaks to you! ‘You
are a human warrior. You possess eight coins of gold.
Please insert four coins into the slot and enter.’

Will you follow these instructions and put 4 Gold
Pieces into the slot in the door, before going through
the doorway (tum to 147)? Will you ignore the voice
and push open the door immediately (turn to 286)? Or
will you abandon the idea of going through this door,
and instead look for a way out of the Library (turn to
27)?

199
The door swings inwards when you push it. You peer
into the tower and see, beyond the short corridor
200

formed by the thickness of the wall, a small, dark and
apparently empty chamber. You step forward into the
room and are startled by a crash from behind you. You
barely have time to realize that a portcullis has de-
scended to block your exit, however, because you are
attacked by the creatures that were roosting near the
ceiling. You have no more than a fleeting impression oz
black membranous wings, malevolent red eyes and
cruelly-curved talons. You feel a brief pang of pain as
sharp teeth penetrate your flesh; then the creatures
venom starts to work, and you drift into unconscious-
ness. Turn to 291.

200
You stand underneath the dangling bundle. It is larger
than a man and seems to be a sort of cocoon of sticky
fibres. It twitches suddenly and then speaks. ‘Is — is
there anybody there? Anybody? Please, if you can, help
me out of this thing! I'm trapped, ] can’t escape! I've
been here for months! Please help me!’

Will you try to release whoever is inside the cocoon? E
so, turn to 339. If you would rather leave this room
turn to 4§

201-202

201

The door flies open, revealing a cupboard packed with
xores, There is no room for you to hide inside so you
sxart inspecting the contents of the shelves for anything
=at might be a weapon. All of the items are unfamiliar
2» you: they are made of unnaturally smooth materials,
ad most are either completely featureless or covered
Tr. indecipherable symbols. One object, however, looks
tke it might be a weapon: it has a hand-grip, a trigger
and a tube, ending in a nozzle, that can be aimed. It is
Gearly labelled Extinguisher, which sounds to you like
a eminently suitable name for a weapon. You are
aout to test its power when you hear the sound of
seavy footsteps approaching. Will you wait for what-
ever is about to confront you (tum to 96)? Alter-
saiively, you could throw some of the switches on the
central console and leap on to the platform in the hope
Sat you will be taken elsewhere (tum to 151).

202

You push open the door, and step into utter blackness;
+ closes behind you. You hear the echo of your foot-
seps, suggesting that you are in a large hall or cavern;
acd then you hear other noises — a gradual crescendo
* twittering, rustling and squeaking. You take a few
more steps forward, wondering whether you have
antered a cave full of bats. Something brushes against
vour body. Teeth nip your ankle and you jerk your
xt away. The darkness is oppressive; if you have a
source of light — a Glowcandle, a Colepod Lantern or a
ang of Light — you can use it to illuminate your
surroundings; turn to 351. If you have no means of
creating light, turn to 167.

203

As clouds of darkness roll over your mind, your last
thought is that you are dying, but you recover your
senses to find that Semeion has torn the Energy Leech
from your arm, You are weak and nauseous and you
have only 1 point of srAmiNa, but you are alive. You
are too exhausted to make another attempt to penetrate
the sorcerous defences within which Globus has cloaked
his citadel. Instead, you weakly agree to Semeion’s
suggestion that you should try to use the Telopticon to
see the Spectral Stalkers. Turn to 380.

204
You retrieve the bottle of Siccator from your backpack
and uncork it. You assume that if water makes the
Golem fast and strong, the drying effect of the Siccator
will slow the monster. But first you have to succeed in
sprinkling the liquid over its body. You know you wik
have only one chance. You stand ready, feeling the
ground shake under your feet as the Golem pounds
towards you, swinging its mallet. Roll two dice. If the
total is less than your sKILL score, turn to 337. lf the
total is equal to, or higher than, your sKILL score
turn to 141.

205
No matter how much you struggle you cannot escape.
Eventually, like the other prisoners, you simply hang

206

imply in your bonds, your head drooping and your
nbs numb. The sound of loud flapping alerts you to
>e return of the Black Shadows. Without pausing to
zerch on the parapet the slavering creatures fly straight
rio the belvedere, their red eyes glinting greedily as
Sey cluster round the writhing, moaning prisoners.
You watch in horror as the loathsome creatures begin
2 flap towards you. Soon you are overwhelmed by
cverlapping blankets of foetid blackness, and you feel
venomous fangs piercing your flesh. As your blood is
sucked from your body you weaken — reduce your
STAMINA to 2 points — and the venom begins to
work. You are dimly aware of being untied, your pack
>eing strapped to your back and of being carried sky-
wards; then you lose consciousness. Turn to 392.

206
You trudge for what seems like endless hours along a
cocky passage, until you feel weak from exhaustion.
Deduct one point of stamina. At last you see a
zummer of light ahead, and you turn a corner to find
sourself in a square courtyard with a flagstone floor
tne dim light that filters down the shaft formed by the
seer walls of the courtyard is dimmed by a vast web
shat is floating down the shaft, and long strands of it
ate almost touching you. From the web a gigantic
Svider begins to scuttle down a silvery thread. One of
she strands touches you and sticks to your clothing.
“ithin seconds you are struggling to free yourself
=om a mass of finger-thick filaments. Roll two dice. If
= total is less than your sKILL, tum to 69; if the

207-208

total is equal to, or more than, your sKILL, tum to

207

The wind howls around you with renewed fury as you
make for the protection of the trees. Something makes
you look back and you see a disturbance in the ai:
above the body of the creature that fell out of the sky.
A dark figure, twice as tall as a man, is solidifying out
of the air as you watch. Its outline is still indistinct, but
it is moving, twisting and turning, as if searching the
landscape.

Will you stand and watch it arrive {turn to 129), or will
you run to find a hiding-place in the edge of the forest
(turn to 44)?

208
Holding the Umbrella before you like a shield, you
crouch low and charge into the midst of the glass
flowers, striking to right and left as you run. The air is
filled with the sound of splintering glass and the shrieks
released by the flowers as they are cut down; but there
are many more blooms that remain, on all sides of you
squirting acid from within their petals. Roll two dice. If
the total is greater than your skILt, you are wounded
by the flowers’ corrosive spray; the difference between
the two figures is the number of sTAMINA points
you lose. If you survive, you emerge on the other side
of the flower bed holding an Umbrella that is no more
than a smoking framework of wire (delete it from your

209-210

Adventure Sheet), but you are able to continue towards
se Vitreous Citadel. Turn to 336.

209

tou put the Hunting-Hom to your lips and blow. A deep
zote, like the bellow of a bull, issues forth. What's more,
“hen you stop blowing the sound continues — and
>egins to swell! The noise is deafening; the ground itself
3 resonating with the deep tone of the Horn. The war-
>easts rear and buck in confusion and their gigantic
sders, shaken from their indifference at last, turn in their
saddles to stare at you in amazement. Struggling to keep
vour balance as the ground vibrates, you see in the
=stance a group of nymphs and satyrs, the prey of the
Sunt, jumping with glee at the giants’ discomfiture. You
cear that this disturbance will attract the attention of
‘ose that are hunting you — add 1 point to your
TAIL score. The faces of the giants continue to display
sutrage as they fade, become transparent, and disappear
vom the park, At last the sound of the Hom begins to
cmninish, As the noise quietens, the landscape around
you darkens, and you feel yourself falling into a pit of
sackness. You blink your eyes and find yourself in a
ave, standing within a circle of fires. Also within the
<rcle is an old crone, who watches you silently. Will you
stack her (turn to 273), or question her (turn to 314)?

210
‘our sword plunges into the Colepod and remains
=xed there, jammed between two scaly plates. The
ceature rears in pain and your sword is snatched from
your hand. The wounded and maddened Colepod races

211-212

away into the grass. If you have no other weapon you
must reduce your skitt by 2 points when in combat,
until you acquire another one. Turn to 41.

211
Pulling the Aleph from your backpack, you hold it
between your hands. You stare wonderingly into its
infinite depths, entranced by the ever-changing visions
that swarm before your eyes. Strange creatures, alien
peoples, towns, continents, planets and swirling stars
meet your gaze wherever you look. Roll one die. If you
roll an even number, tum to 105; if you roll an odd

number, turn to 248.

212
Only your will-power keeps you clinging to life. The
brilliant beam of light will crush you like an insect at
any moment. Then the light flickers and begins to fade.
Suddenly you are free: you have survived the onslaught
You are once again alone in the dim light of the long
hallway. Turn to 386.

213

213
Having passed the forest guards and the watch-tower,
the Minstrel is not challenged again, even at the gate of
the citadel. Within the walls the streets are decked with
flags; the taverns are full of boar-faced Zwinians making
merry. You and the Minstrel attract stares but a few
notes from the Minstrel’s harp ensure a hearty welcome.
You ask the Minstrel about the celebrations. ‘It is seven
years to the day since | was banished,’ he replies. ‘No
doubt the usurper Frampa has declared a day of revell-
ing. He will rue it.’

The Minstrel leads you up to the inner bailey of the
Keep where the court, in finest robes, are seated at a
banquet watched by a throng of townspeople. Frampa,
Lord of the Citadel, calls for entertainment. His jester
speaks up: ‘There is talk of a stranger in the town, sire,’
he shouts for the benefit of the whole assembly. ‘Call
forth the minstrell”

Frampa, snout gaping in shock, clutches the arms of his
throne. ‘Nof he yells. Tt is Barogkaz in disguise! The
seers warned of a minstrel! Do not Jet him play!’ But it
is too late, Wary of your sword, the guards dare not
approach the Minstrel as his harp begins to play. The
crowd, the courtiers and the guards are struck dumb,
Then, as the Minstrel wrests different tunes from the
harp, the Zwinians start to laugh uncontrollably and
the Minstrel mocks their helpless mirth. He makes them
weep, then stand up and dance like marionettes, You
are beginning to find the situation threatening; will you
continue to watch the Minstrel’s tricks (turn to 119), or
will you try to stop him (tum to 8)?

214

214
You keep to the shadows,, scrambling up and down
gulleys and stumbling along dark ravines. In a channel
between two walls of rock you stub your feet against
upthrust pointed boulders. You step over them — and
your feet are stuck to the ground, Two round eyes
suddenly appear before you. You have stumbled into
the extended jaw of a Lithogen, a huge predator that,
once adult, never moves; it merely lies in wait for
incautious animals. A Lithogen has only a small throat,
and cannot eat solid matter; its prey has to be pre-
digested and it remains stuck to the Lithogen’s tongue,
in the lower jaw, until it has rotted down to a pulp that
the Lithogen can ingest. To assist the rotting process,
the Lithogen’s funnel-shaped throat squirts a caustic
liquid on to the trapped prey. The first foul-smelling
spray catches you unawares, and burns where it splashes
your exposed flesh; lose 1 point of sTAMINA. You
cannot pull your feet free, so you will have to cut
yourself free with your sword. Then it occurs to you
that with a well-aimed throw you could close the
creature’s throat — a ball would completely block the
funnel-shaped orifice. The Aleph would be the right size
_.. but no, you cannot afford to lose it here. If you
have a spherical map, however, and want to try to use
it for this purpose, turn to 281; otherwise, you will
have to try to cut through the Lithogen’s tongue — tum

to 341.

215

21

Your head feels like an overripe melon and your body
‘s being shaken like a sapling in a gale. You come to
your senses and realize that you are lying on the floor
of a moving vehicle. You open your eyes: towering
above you is Syzuk the Devastator, his eye-sockets
alazing like beacons as he cracks a whip in one bony
anand and brandishes a flaming longsword in the other.
You are in his war-chariot, in the thick of a bloody
oattle. The day is Syzuk’s; his Skeletal Warriors, march-
ig forward in endless ranks, cover the land like a flood.
Like storm-battered islands, small bands of Syzuk’s
2nemies — humans, mainly, and some Elves — die fight-
mg to hold back the tide. A solitary, desperate Elven
arrow ares across the sky and lands in Syzuk’s shoulder.
He falls alongside you. The Elven arrowhead is poison
co him and he pleads with you to help him. If you
decide to do so, and you have a bottle of Corrective
cluid, turn to 384. If you want to help but have no
Sluid, turn to rgx. If you finish off Syzuk and bundle
nim out of the chariot, turn to 1§5.

.
Pe ee Se ee

ee te

216-217

216

‘ou press the button on the left-hand side of the
design and the wall starts to move. The huge slab of
rock rises slowly to reveal another square courtyard,
Sut this one is much larger than any you have encoun-
zered in the maze so far. It is a garden, the lawns and
=ees separated by paths that appear as Labyrinthine as
sme tunnels of the maze. The four sheer walls are
covered, as far upwards as you can see, with balconies,
windows and belvederes, all of them interconnected by
airways and ramps that baffle your sight and defy
comprehension, Standing in front of you, its muscles
siivering with suppressed energy, is a gigantic two-
neaded dog. You prepare to defend yourself, for the
ceature is clearly ready to pounce; but instead, from
20th of its fang-filled mouths, it speaks

7 am the Logic Dog,’ it growls, ‘and my task is to
crotect the garden of my master Semeion from in-
=uders. I could attack you; or I could let you pass.
Which do you think I will do? Will I attack, or will I let
wou pass? For you see, if you guess correctly, I will let
you pass; but if you guess wrongly, I will attack.” Will
vou tell the Logic Dog that you think it will attack you
turn to 320); or will you guess that the Dog will let
vou pass (turn to 72)?

217
You pull the glowing sphere from your backpack and
cup it in your hands. Instantly you are mesmerized by
=e myriad visions, so tiny and yet so detailed, that
swarm within the Aleph. The longer you gaze, the

218~219

more you can see: strange creatures, alien peoples,
towns, continents, planets, swirling stars. You feel your-
self being enveloped by the Aleph; but what thoughts
pass through your mind as you are transported? If you
are anxious to find someone who can explain the
meaning of the objects that you have collected since
you were given the Aleph, tum to 354. If you are keen
to continue on your travels, hoping to find more signif-
cant items of booty, turn to 156. If, however, your
only concern is to hurry on to the end of your quest,
turn to 234.

218

Stones crumble beneath your feet, your fingernails splin-
ter against barely-accessible handholds and a hundred
times you think you are about to plummet to your
death. But at last you pull yourself over a lip of rock
and find yourself at the entrance of a cave. The Oph-
idians, confident that they alone of unwinged creatures
can reach this eyrie, have left the place unguarded. You
are able to rest undisturbed until your limbs stop
shaking and your muscles no longer ache. You peer
into the cave: two tunnels lead away into the darkness
From the one to your left you hear the shrieks of Silica
Serpents, and see leaping shadows cast by fires; the
tunnel to your right is silent, but illuminated by torches
in brackets set into the wall. Will you explore the left
tunnel (turn to 43), or the right (turn to 152)?

219
You offer no resistance as the Feliti converge on you,
their fangs bared. The pack surrounds you, the largest

220

of the creatures at your heels. They nip your legs to
encourage you to move and despite your exhaustion
you force yourself to run. You are in a sea of green
bodies surging across the evening landscape. When
you stagger, you are bitten: when you fall, your limbs
are grasped between fang-filled jaws and you are
dragged across the rocks until you pull yourself upright.
When you trip and fall for the third time you are too
tired and battered to bother about your fate. You lie on
the hard ground and wait to be tom apart — but
nothing happens. You lift your head: the Feliti are
running on without you, disappearing into the darkness
towards the garden. Night has fallen. You have lost 4
points of sTAMINA. You manage to stand; where will
you go now: back to the garden (turn to 334), towards
the fortress that you saw from the garden (tum to
379), or will you use the Aleph to escape from this
strange world (turn to 365)?

220

Semeion gazes perplexedly at the objects on the table.
These signs contain a meaning,’ he says at last, ‘but it is
difficult to read. They seem to suggest that the Spectral
Stalkers have been summoned by Globus, but I cannot
tell for what purpose. Perhaps they escaped his control
and are pursuing the Aleph because it calls to them.
Perhaps Globus was over-eager to recover the

and unleashed the Stalkers by mistake. Or maybe he is
not the Aleph’s rightful owner, and has summoned the
Stalkers to find it for him. I cannot tell. But it would be
unwise to trust Globus, I think. Be on your guard.’

221-223

You thank Semeion for this rather superfluous advice
and ask if he can tell you more about Globus. Turn to
408.

221
Holding your breath at every step, you climb upwards.
You reach the eighteenth step without feeling the
slightest tremor. With great care, you leap over the
nineteenth without touching it and land on the twen-
tieth step — where an electric charge as powerful as a
bolt of lightning fries you in an instant! The adventure
ends here for warriors who fail to calculate correctly.

222
You duck through the low doorway and enter the inn
A gust of wind slams the door behind you. In the
darkness you can just make out tables and chairs; the
room seems to be deserted and there is no sound to be
heard. You climb a staircase until you reach a landing lit
by a candle. There are several doors; all but one are
locked. You open the unlocked door and find yourself
in a pleasant bedroom with a balcony overhanging the
river, Clean blankets have been laid on the nash mattress
and there is a basin of fresh water. Supper is waiting on
the table: bread, cold meat, cheese and a flagon of ale.
The food looks wholesome; will you eat it (tum to
113), or are you too suspicious to try it (tun to 159)?

223
A Mantir duel is not a fight to the death. The two
combatants are armed with spears, which have to be
used only as staves. One of the Mantirs gives you his

224

spear. The object is to knock your opponent to the
ground; in this the Mantir has an advantage over a
human opponent, because he stands on four legs and
nas an additional weapon — the spiked ball on the end
of his tail. Because of this, the Mantir attacks twice in
each Attack Round, but you can strike him only in the
frst of the two attacks — if your Attack Strength is
higher than his in the second attack, this merely indi-
cates that you have avoided the swipe of his bristling
tail, The duel ends when one of you has lost 4 or more
STAMINA points.

MANTIR SKILL 8 STAMINA 10

if you survive the duel, you realize that the Mantirs
nave lost all interest in the result of the contest between
you and their Jeader. They are staring into the sky and
shrieking in alarm — turn to 388,

224
Wearily you trudge along the seemingly endless pass-
age. At last you see a patch of light ahead and step
through a portal at the end of the passage into a square
courtyard, The flagstones are littered with pebbles and
small boulders, and only a little grey light seeps into
‘ne courtyard, You suspect that the shaft above you
has been partially blocked by a rockfall. You stand in
the centre of the floor, facing the one doorway which
sas the circle and triangle symbol above it, and ponder
which way you should go next. A noise disturbs you
and, looking down, you see that the stones on the floor
are beginning to vibrate. You decide to leave quickly,
out even as you take your first step, some of the stones
225

start to explode, Sharp shards of flint fly across the
courtyard, lacerating your legs as you run. You must
reach the shelter of a doorway quickly, or you will be
cut down and stoned to death, Roll two dice; if the
total is more than your SKILL, you do not reach a
haven unscathed — deduct the difference between the
two scores from your STAMINA. If you are still alive,
you hobble through the doorway you have chosen; did
you make for the one you were facing (turn to 26), the
one behind you (turn to 329), the one to your right
(turn to 247), or the.one to your left (turn to 187)?

225
‘Tm not interested in weapons,’ intones the Robot. ‘I've
got more swords than I know what to do with. Money's
no use to me, either. What else have you got?’ You
bring out your two portions of Provisions; and, with
some reluctance, you uncover the small sphere, its
surface now dull and cloudy. The Robot merely glances
at it. ‘So you're the bearer of the Aleph,’ he says
‘You'll find there’s powerful people searching for that.
Food — that’s of interest. Not for myself, of course —
never touch the stuff — but for my hungry little pets.’

If you have lost your sword, the Robot gives you a
replacement; deduct one portion of your Provisions
and restore your skILt to its Initial value. He also
produces a glass disc with a handle and one of the
hanging constructions of wire and cloth; he calls them a
Magnifying Glass and an Umbrella and explains how
they work. He will exchange them for one portion of
Provisions each. You then ask the Robot how you can

226-227

leave the Library, and he points to the EXIT doorway.
You step through it. Turn to 18s.

226
Wrong!’ roars the doorway. ‘Utterly wrong! Why,
foolish intruder, you have only to look at the beautiful
and intricately-worked carvings that adorn the apex of
my framework! There you will see my crowns. Regard
them now: this will be the last sight your eyes will see!’
Turn to 31.

227
the picture moves closer, until the image of the Spectral
Stalkers fills the Telopticon’s metal hoop. The aura that
surrounds the nightmarish creatures seems to be
moving, as if it were being tugged and prodded.
Semeion’s mental energy is reaching out to touch the
very stuff of the spell that binds the Stalkers. This is a
potent enchantment, Semeion's thoughts interrupt yours.
8 took many minutes to cast, and will take longer ts undo.
Charms have been woven into it to ensure that only he who
mule the spell can unmake it, Apart from the spellmaker
wmnaking the spell, the only way it can be ended is by
sdlilfing its purpose: the Spectral Stalkers must destroy the
bearer of the Aleph and carry the Aleph to the spellmaker,
Only then will they be free to return to the unknown plane
whence they came, As one the Spectral Stalkers turn their
wast heads, and you feel their hate-filled yearning reach-
mg out to you. They have detected you: add 2 points
® your TRAIL score. In my opinion, Semeion’s
thoughts flash through your mind, it’s time you were on

228-229

your tay! He pulls the helmet from your head and
hurries you from the chamber. Turn to 23.

228

One of the black warriors moves to the white end of
the field. The white warrior on square Gé is surrounded
and killed by the combined attacks of the three black
warriors around him. Burud has won. The sky echoes
with his harsh laughter, and you can also hear Draw-
enna’s sobs of despair. You find that you can at last
release your hold on the pike and the heavy armour
slips from your back. You wander to the edge of the
field, where you find your backpack and your clothes
Soon you are ready to depart, and you decide to use
the Aleph to travel elsewhere. Turn to 124.

. 229

You crouch behind a boulder and watch the struggles
of the trapped Silica Serpent. After a while, a band of
strange soldiers arrives. They are humanoid but very
tall and thin, with Jong spidery arms and legs, and they
are encased in gleaming armour of black glass. Each
carries a spear and has a set of pipes hanging at his belt.
They are Ophidians and, as they demonstrate, they
have the skill to control Silica Serpents.

They surround the Serpent which, although trapped, is
not harmless: it spits jets of liquid at the Ophidians, and
the liquid is clearly corrosive, as the rocks on which it
splashes begin to crumble and smoke. The acid has no
effect on the Ophidians, however; it runs off their glass
armour, and they pay almost no attention to the crea-

230

ture’s angry splutters. Instead, one of them takes the
pipes from his belt and begins to play upon them.
There is no recognizable tune, but the Silica Serpent
seems to find the music very relaxing. It stops spitting
and struggling, and the Ophidians move in to muzzle
its scaly jaws, bind up its diaphanous wings and lead it
away on a leash. If you want to follow them, turn to
369; if you would rather wait until they are out of
sight, and then continue along the path to the distant
diff, turn to 4.

230
You walk along the shore, allowing the cool water to
lp over your tired feet. If you need to drink sea water
to restore STAMINA drained by an Energy Leech, you
can do so now. You notice that the damp sand is
covered with the tracks of large webbed feet. You pray
that the creatures who made the tracks have now gone
elsewhere; but when you turn round you come face to
face with them. Standing inside a huge bubble that
seems to have just emerged from the sea are six amphibi-
ous beings. They are man-sized, but look more like
giant frogs than humans, From wide, lipless, tooth-filled
mouths their long tongues flicker threateningly. They
wear necklaces made of shells and coral, and carry
swords edged with sharks’ teeth. They are Vaskind.
The bubble dissolves, and the creatures advance with
raised swords. Will you surrender (turn to 261) or
defend yourself (turn to 104)?
231

231
The Conjuror snarls as you produce the silver blade.
This weapon can harm him; he will have to fight you.

VAMPIRE SKILL 9 STAMINA 13

If you win, a large bat flies from the Vampire’s corpse
which then crumbles to dust. In the dust is the key te
the hanging cage. You release the Baron’s daughter
and, despite her urging, you decide not to tackle the
Were-cat who is driving the wagon. Instead you open the
door, grab your backpack in one hand and the girl's
wrist in the other, and jump from the wagon.

You crawl into the shade of a hedge to inspect your
pack, Amazingly, nothing is broken — restore 1 point ct
Luck — and you find that you have collected one o:
the Conjuror’s circular calling-cards. It displays the
words Marvip the Magician above a picture of a tad
figure with a black cloak and a glowing wand. The
shape of the card reminds you of the Aleph and you
decide to keep it.

The Baron's daughter has been watching you for some
time. ‘Are you going to sit there all day?’ she complains
‘That Magician was much more exciting than you. He
was going to take me to his castle. Now I suppose If
have to go home to boring old Daddy, Goodbye ane
good riddance!’ With that she strides off towards the
town. You decide to use the Aleph to go elsewhere
Turn to 63.

232-233

232

‘rou step tentatively on to the bridge. The stone slab is
=m and stable. You take a few more steps — and the
siab begins to move. Like a tongue withdrawing into a
south, the bridge is being pulled into the doorway
while simultaneously rocking from side to side; it is all
vou can do to keep your balance. When you are half-
way across the moat and poised perilously above the
>cight blue smoking liquid, the slab stops moving to-
wards the doorway but continues to sway from side to
=de. A voice comes from the black marble face: “You
re no Ophidian,’ it says, ‘and you are certainly not a
Siack Shadow. No others are permitted to cross, and if
vou were here on the business of the Archmage Globus
vou would have known to say the password before
=epping on to my tongue. Now, stranger, I have you
=t my mercy. I should toss you into the moat. But I
suppose I could spare you — and J do so love to hear a
>roud warrior plead for mercy. Plead with me, stranger;
reg for your life!’ If you want to compose a speech
-ploring the doorway to spare you, turn to 362; if
vou remain stubbornly silent, turn to 31.

233
Tne Minstrel stands his harp on the road so that he can
=ght more easily, but the instrament continues to make
Susic, You can see the strings vibrating and the keening
voice seems to emanate from the front of the harp,
wnich is carved in the likeness of a human head. The
second boar-faced soldier seems to be dazed by the
=usic and the Minstrel is about to deliver an unopposed
zeath-blow to the first when the third arrives on the

234

scene. He, too, is held in thrall by the haunting melody,
but his mount, rearing out of control, treads on the
harp and breaks it. The Minstrel kills the first boar-face
but the other two recover, dismount, and press home
their attack. The Minstrel kills another boar-face before
he finally receives a mortal stroke. With his dying
effort he despatches the last of the boar-faces, and the
road is silent but for an occasional discordant note from
the damaged harp. If you want to look more closely at
this scene of carnage, turn to 363; if you would rather
use the Aleph, in the hope of travelling to somewhere
more welcoming, turn to 91

234

You materialize in the air a litte way above a meadow
and fall awkwardly into the long grass. You feel that
you are being watched, and glance up to see the
hideous shape of a Spectral Stalker forming in the air.
Its eyes search back and forth, and below them the
writhing mass of tentacles seems to be sensing your
scent on the air, Test your Trail score. Roll three dice. If
the total is equal to or more than your TRAIL score, turn
to 29; if the total is less than your TRAIL score, turn to
300.

235

235

One by one, you take all the items from your backpack
and place them on the table. Semeion studies them
ntently, arranging them into groups and then rearrang-
ing them. Not all of them are of interest. He insists that
chere should be seven significant signs to produce a
Sear meaning — round objects, he stresses, objects that
-ecall the shape of the Aleph. He is interested in any of
ze following, if you have them;

A circular inn sign

A plate engraved with a hunting scene
A hollow ball of clay

A toy clown in a glass sphere

A rune-inscribed wheel-hub

A round picture of a conjuror

A map drawn on a wooden ball

= you have all seven items, turn to 132. If you have
chem all except for the spherical map, turn to 179. If
you have six of them including the spherical map, turn
to 220. If you have only five items, or less, turn to

360.

236-237

236

Even as you turn towards the Conjuror’s assistant you
see that she is changing. She is a Were-cat: talons are
emerging from the tips of her fur-covered fingers and
the pointed ears that seemed to be part of her costume
are flicking angrily as she snarls at you. As you lunge
and parry in the narrow passage behind the stage, you
hear the Conjuror attempting to placate the crowd,
which is becoming increasingly impatient and noisy in
its calls for the return of the Baron’s daughter. Dodging
the murderous swipes of the Were-cat’s claws, you hear
the Conjuror shouting orders to Felice to start the
wagon — but she is occupied in fighting you.

WERE-CAT

If you are stil! alive after four Attack Rounds, you hear
the crowd storm on to the stage — turn to 47.

SKILL 8§ STAMINA 10

237

Transfixed as much by pain as by the force of the
brilliant beam of light, you barely hear Baratcha’s words.
‘You are the bearer of the Aleph,’ she growls, ‘and you
must survive to accomplish your destiny.’ The Vaskind
Queen steps into the deadly beam, shielding you in her
massive shadow. Instantly you are free You stagger
aside, turning to see the Vaskind’s face contorted in
agony as the pressure of the light squeezes the life from
her body. ‘I am dying, warrior,’ she croaks, ‘but the
sacrifice will be worthwhile if you can defeat the tyrant!’
The light flickers and then fades, and Baratcha’s lifeless
body falls to the floor. You are alone in the silence and
gloom of the long hallway. Turn to 386.

238-240

238

Your sword strikes one of the Silica Serpent's eyes,
which shatters into a thousand shards. A fountain of
black fluid jets from the creature’s eye-socket as it dies.
As you turn away from the carcass, the Wood Elves
who have been watching your fight flee from you in
fear. You ignore them and turn your attention to the
captive in the net. Tum to 125.

23

The Goblin that you have wounded begins to gibber in
terror. His comrade tums, looks up, and screams. The
hideous shape of a Spectral Stalker is forming in the air
above you. The glittering orbs of its eyes search back and
forth, and below them the writhing mass of tentacles
seems to be sensing your scent on the air. Add 1 point
to your TRAIL score. The Goblins fling themselves
through the trapdoor; you hear a splash as they land in the
river. The Spectral Stalker becomes more solid with every
moment that passes. Test your Trail score. Roll three dice. If
the total is equal to or more than your TRAIL score, burn to
Bo. If the total is less than your TRAIL score, turn to 307.

240
You throw yourself from the path of the jet of fluid —
but not quickly enough! A spray of liquid splashes
across you and as you hit the ground and roll away
from the Silica Serpent you feel pain explode all over
your body, as if red-hot knives were being pressed into
your flesh. The Silica Serpent’s venom is a powerful
acid: roll one die and deduct the result from your
STAMINA. If you are still alive, you pick yourself up,

241-242

step back — and collide with the leader of a troop o:
soldiers. They are tall, thin humanoids, totally encasec
in plate armour made of black glass. Each carries a spear
and has a set of pipes hanging from his belt. You are
trapped between the soldiers and the Silica Serpent
you have no choice but to surrender. Turn to 306

241
You can find nothing in your backpack to lighten the
gloom, and decide to use the Aleph to leave. You loox
up to find that the last daylight has died — and the
ballerina is staring at you! ‘We're coming to play wits
you, she says, and starts dancing towards you. Unsees
things are moving in the cupboards; the metal soldier:
are marching across the floor towards you; the rocking-
horse bares its teeth and rocks in your direction; the
jester’s costume is jerking on its hook; and the door o2
the room is beginning to creak open!

You are hemmed in by moving toys, You are beginning
to feel panic — add 1 point to your TRAIL score. The
only way out is through the window. Will you throv.
open the casement and climb out (turn to 322)? Or
would you rather make a stand against this army o:
toys and ghosts (turn to 350)?

242
You jump and in the same moment the Colepod veer:
towards you and you are struck by one of its six horny
knees. As the creature thunders away into the lonz
grass you hit the ground and tumble head over hee!
several times before you come to rest. Roll one die ane

243-244

zabtract the result from your sTAMINA, If you are
sall alive, you lie in the trampled grass for several
=inutes recovering your breath. Then, painfully, you
scand. Turn to 41.

24
Tou walk for hours between towering shelves laden
with dusty volumes. No matter how far you go, the

corridor extends, without end, as far as the eye can see.

+2 last, however, in a gap between two sets of shelves,
yeu find a door. It is slightly ajar, and the notice on it
=xmiounces: Office of the Artefacts Specialist. Please knock

oat wait Below the notice is a heavy brass knocker and

cxlow that, set into the wooden beams of the door, are
= circular piece of glass and a brass plate with a narrow
sit, Will you push the door open and walk through the
aoorway (turn to 147), lift the knocker and knock on
zane door (turn to 198), or turn away and look for a way

ext of the Library (turn to 27)?

244
Soll a die, The result is the number of minutes that you
ssend in your increasingly frantic search for the door
During all this time dozens of little Shadowlings, hidden
= the darkness, are hounding you, leaping on to your
sody and sucking your blood. You lose sTAMINA at
“ne rate of one point each minute. Jf you survive until
you find the door, you pull it open with a sob of relief
zn slam it shut behind you. You make for your only
2maining route -- through the door with light showing
ssund its edges. Turn to 324.

245-246

245

The priest howls accusations of trickery and dark magic,
but the congregation of Elves is impressed by your
escape from certain death. The guards release you and
Grondel, and you say farewell to the old Elf. You want
to leave the underground city and wander away into
the darkness between the decrepit buildings, looking
tor a secluded place in which to unpack the Aleph.
Grondel calls you back, begging you to produce some
piece of evidence for his theory that there are worlds
beyond the confines of the Elves’ cavern. A glimpse of
the Aleph, with its teeming display of the infinite
worlds of the Macrocosmos, would be enough to con-
vince anyone that other worlds exist. If you agree to
show it to Grondel and the priest, turn to 18; if you
hurry into the shadows to use it to travel elsewhere,
turn to 377

246
The Wood Elves wait, gazing up into the sky; you
wait, watching the Wood Elves. Then one of them
gives a shout and you see something descending out of
the turquoise distance. The Wood Elves scatter, retreat-
ing from their netted captive, as an iridescent serpentine
form spirals downwards on gossamer wings. It is some-
what like a slim Dragon crossed with a giant winged
Centipede. Its scales glitter as it undulates through the
air; its head is an armoured mask of silvered glass
plates. Jt floats to the ground and scuttles to the
boulder, cutting the ropes that secure the net with
fangs like splinters of glass. Its huge eyes, like black
pools under glass domes, inspect the contents of the
247-248

net. Will you continue to watch and wait (turn to 142),
or will you attack the creature while the Elves are
absent (turn to 287)?

247
After walking along the passage for some time you
eventually reach a small chamber which has doorways
in three of its walls. On the fourth wall, opposite the
doorway engraved with the circle and triangle symbol,
a plaque has been set into the stone, and on the plaque
are inscribed the words The End, There seems to be
nothing else remarkable about this room, however, and
turning to face the doorway with the symbol you
choose through which portal you will leave: the one in
front of you (turn to 329), the one to your right (tum
to 224), or the one to your left (tum to 78).

248
You find yourself standing on a smooth platform that
glows but gives out no heat. You are in a chamber
lined with walls of opaque glass and polished metal
Rows of coloured lights wink at you and a barely-
audible hum and a slight vibration pervade the room.
You step off the platform and its glow fades. Suddenly
a voice speaks out of the air: ‘Unauthorized use of
transporter — investigate!’ A second voice asks: ‘Is if
another specimen?’ Insufficient data,’ replies the first voice
‘Sending the Grappler’ You step backwards and bump
into a table whose surface is covered with flashing
lights and coloured switches. You wonder what would
happen if you were to flick some of the switches at
random and then jump back on to the platform; if you

249-250

want to do this, turn to 151. Alternatively, you could
search for a place to hide — turn to 3§2. If you would
rather just wait for something to happen, turn to 96.

249

You do exactly as Necromon asks, You drink the sweet
liquid and hold the empty flask to your lips, until you
are suddenly overwhelmed by a feeling of faintness.
Deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA. If you are still
alive, the last thing you remember is Necromon hur-
riedly corking the flask while suggesting that you lie
down and rest. Then the potion goes to work on your
mind. Your thoughts dissolve into patterns of coloured
lights mingled with visions of ineffable beauty and
significance. Throughout this wonderful display, a small
voice in the back of your mind, like a child shouting to
be heard in the midst of a Neuburg harvest-time car-
nival, is trying to tell you to come to your senses. Roll
four dice. Jf the total is less than, or equal to, your
STAMINA, tum to 73; if the total is greater than your
STAMINA, turn to 284.

250
Boosted by the power drawn from you and Semeion
by the Energy Leeches, the Telopticon’s screen clears
once more, and you find yourself looking at the inside
of Globus’s Citadel. You can see a long, shadowy hall
and, at the end of it, a many-faceted dome that glitters
like an enormous gem. This must be Globus’s audience
chamber, says Semeion’s voice inside your mind, and
that shimmering structure is a Prism of Power, an artefact of
high magic. Only ifs creator, Globus himself, can pass
251

through it. No other living thing can penetrate those glowing
facets ~ although non-living beings, such as the Spectral
Stalkers, can pass through unhindered, I fear that even such
a@ Prism would be inadequate to shield you from your
relentless pursuers. I sense you are thinking of weapons — of
swordblades and arrows; and while if is true that such
inanimate objects can pass through the Prism, they can do so
only if moving very slowly — so banish any thoughts of
trying to throw a spear or a dagger at Globus while he sits
within his Prism of Power. The Aleph? Why, yes — the
Aleph is beyond most physical and magical laws, and it
would pass through the Prism as if it did not exist. The
Energy Leeches can supply no more power: the picture
dissolves into swirling colours. Turn to 380

251
The robed being interrupts your greeting, “You are
confused, Lord,’ he says. ‘That is not surprising. We,
the few remaining Feliti — the last of your people —
have waited long ages for your return. Now we will
prepare the Jewel of Sleep with which you will defeat
our evil ruler.’ The Feliti busy themselves plucking the
purple blooms from the garden plants, while their
leader, in a mystical trance, begins another incantation,
his hands outstretched over the growing heap of
blooms brought to his feet by his people. You are sure
that he is reciting a magical formula, but you are not so
sure you want to find out what it does. If you decide to
take out the Aleph and use its power to travel elsewhere
in the Macrocosmos, tum to 365; if you would rather
wail until the spell is cast, turn to 52.

252-253

252

Clouds of Black Shadows are descending on the piains,
so you make off in the opposite direction, towards the
foot of the vast cliff. As you scramble on to higher
ground you look back to see the grasslands littered
with dark flapping shapes. As you watch, groups of
them start to fly upwards carrying the lifeless bodies of
Colepods, You reach a place where a path begins its
zig-zag ascent of the cliff-face and, as you have no desire
fo return to the plains, you decide to climb upwards
Turn to 12,

253

Don’t be alarmed by my appearance,’ says the strange
wheeled being as you step from the machine into his
study. ‘I realize that you barbarians don’t comprehend
the advances of science, but [ am quite harmless, I] am
Metron, the Mapmaker.’ You gaze in wonderment at
the maps and charts that cover the walls and desks, and,
perhaps because they remind you of the Aleph, you are
particularly intrigued by a collection of maps that are
painted on the surfaces of wooden balls. ‘I see you are
surprised to see spherical maps,’ Metron squeaks. ‘No
doubt you think the world is flat — or built on terraces,
as the fabled Ziggurat World is supposed to be. I can
tell you, my friend, that I have studied worlds through-
out the Macrocosmos; and whatever shape they are
supposed to be, after | have measured and mapped
them they are round. But tell me: have you brought
anything with you? I am always looking for new objects
to measure.’

254

You wonder which of your items you should ask
Metron to examine. If you possess them, you could
offer him Cerod the Harp (turn to 346), a clay ball that
rattles (tum to 49) or a god’s Hunting Hor (turn to
173). If you refuse to allow Metron to see any of your
possessions, tum to 375.

254

Rock-climbing tests both strength and endurance and
this wall of rock is as high as the mightiest of the
Cloudhigh Mountains of Khul. There are few ledges on
which to rest, no gullies or chimneys to provide a
change from the relentless necessity of clinging to the
bare stone, often carrying all your weight on one
tenuous finger-hold, while you search for the next
outcrop of rock which will support you. Roll seven
dice. If the total is equal to, or Jess than, the sum of
your SKILL and STAMINA, tum to 321; if the total
is greater than the sum of your SKILL and
STAMINA, turn to 102.

255-256

255

The Spectral Stalker has failed to find you. You heave a
sigh of relief as the hideous creature shakes its great
nead in frustration and begins to dissolve into the air.
The Golem is completely still now; it will be nothing
more than a clay statue until the next rainstorm. Now
ou can make your way to the cave in the cliff-face.
Turn to 263.

256

After several bone-jolting minutes, the Colepod begins
-o slow its heedless charge, It tosses its head wildly in
an attempt to dislodge you; but you hang on grimly,
and eventually, defeated, the Colepod comes to a halt.
You release your hold only cautiously, but the creature
nas apparently forgotten its panic already and has
resumed the occupation with which it fills nearly all of
4s waking existence: munching grass. You lean against
ts flank and recover your breath. Turn to 33.

257

257

After walking for some time you see daylight ahead,
and step through a doorway to find yourself in a square
courtyard with an undulating floor of burnished metal
Bright sunlight streams down the shaft formed by the
walls and is reflected off the floor to illuminate the
metal statues that stand on the peaks of the uneven
floor, Each statue is of a heroic warrior holding a
weapon and a brilliantly polished shield. There are
doorways leading from the courtyard, one in each o!
the four wails; as usual, one of the doorways bears the
circle and triangle symbol. As you decide which door-
way to take, you notice that the statues are slowly,
mechanically, pivoting towards you, metal arms moving
to adjust the angle of their shields. The sun’s rays,
concentrated in the hollows of the metal floor, are
being reflected on to the soldiers’ shields — and then
back at you! As the beams coincide, you are almost
struck blind by the dazzling light, and a wall of heat
drives you to your knees.

Roll three dice. If the total is equal to or more than
your STAMINA, you do not have the strength and
will to rise to your feet and run — crushed by the
overpowering heat, you slowly roast. Your adventure
ends here. If the total is less than your STAMINA,
you somehow find the energy to stand and run, Lose 5
points from your STAMINA, Do you run to the
doorway you were facing, marked with the symbol
(turn to 78); the one behind you (turn to 122); the one
to your left (turn to 186); or the one to your right (turn
to 285)?

258

258

4. tunnel slopes upward before you. After following it
‘or some time you reach a junction from which a
cassage leads downwards and a stairway leads up.
Your route lies upwards, you are sure, towards the
highest level of this strange tiered world, so you take
che stairs. You step on to the first stair, and a shiver
>asses through your body. You move on to the second
step: this time you definitely feel a momentary shudder.
You advance gingerly to the third step; but feel nothing.
The fourth step, however, gives you a jolt that leaves
you cold and trembling. You summon up all your
courage to tread on the fifth step; but it does nothing
zo you, and nor does the sixth. The seventh step
catches you unawares with a shock that almost brings
ou to your knees. However, steps eight, nine, ten and
zleven are all harmless, so that by the time you reach
che twelfth step you are unprepared for the agonizing
spasm that doubles you up in pain. Lose 2 points of
STAMINA. It is clear that each jolt is more powerful than
che last; the next could be enough to finish you. But
how can you tell which steps to avoid? You think you
can detect a pattern in the steps that give shocks; and
you try to calculate it before continuing the ascent.
Which is the next step you should avoid:

The seventeenth step? Tun to 98
The nineteenth step? Turn to 22%
Or the twentieth step? Turn to 315

259-260

259
You grip the massive tome with both hands and tug it
from its shelf. You study the ornate script and realize
that the book is an alphabetical list of all types of
magicians. The book has fallen open at a page of
wizards whose names begin with the letter G — and
there, in front of your nose, is the name Globus. You
tead the following description:

GLOBUS. Rank: Archmage.

Residence: The Ziggurat World.

Comments: One of the most
powerful images in Macrocosmos, but concen-
trates on research and experimentation. Specia-
lities include summonings and transportation
between the various Spheres of the Macro-
cosmos. Also theoretical studies of the Aleph,
the One Sphere believed to contain all that
exists.

You ponder these words. You must assume that the
ball you are carrying is the Aleph, Perhaps the flying
creature that gave it to you was caught by the Spectral
Stalkers while trying to take it to Globus? What will
you look for now — a way out of this Library (turn to
27), Or someone who can tell you more about the
Aleph (turn to 243)?

260
You step through a doorway into the dark interior of
the rock wall and climb the steep stairs. Turning a
comer, you climb towards a window — and looking out

260

>: it you find that you are walking sideways: where the
sxy should be there is instead one of the inner walls of
“se courtyard! You stagger, seized with vertigo, but
sorce yourself to continue up the stairs; turning another
comer, you find that although you are still trudging
s»wards, when you lift your head you are walking
sawards the maze-like gardens. You round another
comer, and are once again climbing into the dark
Sierior of the rock. You tum another corner, into
Zaylight, to find that the world has righted itself, and
wou are stepping up to the balcony where Semeion is
seated at a stone table. ‘The staircases in my house can
>= confusing at first,’ he says with a smile, ‘but here you
are at last, Please be seated. After your difficult journey
so reach me, the least | can do is try to answer any
suestions you may have.’ You sit opposite Semeion
Sor some reason, you are sure that you can trust the
wtse old man, Without a word you withdraw the Aleph
=om your backpack and place it on the stone table.
Tum to 65.

261-262

261

Within seconds you are surrounded, and cannot hope
ro escape. The largest of the Vaskind uses his splay-
sngered hands to rend the surface of the huge bubble
and pull it over you and his warriors. The bubble
descends through clear, green, fish-filled water, before
coming to rest against a vast transparent dome resting
on a shelf of rock. Within the dome is a settlement of
some sort: irregular structures of coral, shell and stone
nse from a network of pools and canals, The bubble
sides down the surface of the dome, merging into it as
xou approach the sea bed. The air inside the dome is
camp and malodorous, but breathable; you are given
ttle chance to examine your surroundings as the Vask-
and hurry you to the centre of the underwater city. You
ae placed on a low pedestal in the middle of a large,
square pool; in front of you rises a throne, empty
except for a gold crown. A Vaskind in decorated robes
addresses you from the steps of the throne. ‘We mean
you no harm, stranger,’ he croaks, ‘but we have not
seen your like before. Globus, the Archmage, rules the
zeoples of this world; are you his friend or his foe?’

E you say that you are Globus’s friend, turn to 138; if
you say that you are his enemy, turn to 345.

262
tne ghostly figures pursue you through the castle. You
aare not stop to look behind you, but you can feel their
culling presence at your back. You race along dusty
corridors, across a small yard, through a doorway, and
ap a spiral staircase, As you climb, you become aware
263

that your pursuers are no longer behind you, but you
continue to climb. At last you reach the top of the stairs
and find a door standing ajar. Stepping through it, you
find yourself at the top of a tower, in a room illuminated
with the dying rays of the setting sun. It is a child’s
bedroom, crowded with toys. There is only one door,
which you close behind you as you enter. The ghostly
couple can be neither seen nor heard, and you seem to
be safe at last. But nightfall is upon you — will you stay
in this room (turn to 38), or use the Aleph to travel
elsewhere (turn to 6)?

263
Pulling at the jumble of boulders in the cave entrance,
you manage to clear a path into the cave, which is
illuminated by large glowing bowls. Mayrek the Potter
greets you and thanks you effusively, He looks very
tired and thin, and explains that the Golem was one of
his experiments that went awry. The creature was
intended to be a servant, but it developed a will of its
own and imprisoned its creator in the cave which
serves as Mayrek’s home and workshop. By way of a
reward for rescuing him, he tells you that you can take
any item from his workshop. You wander among racks
of statuary and pottery, each object a fine work of art,
but in the end two items attract your attention. One
seems very useful; a small porcelain box containing 5
Gold Pieces. The other, a plain ball of glazed clay,
intrigues you because its shape and size remind you of
the Aleph. Will you choose to take the box {turn to
100) or the ball (turn to 368)?

264-265

264
In this Attack Round you decide to let fate take its
course. Test your Luck. lf you are Unlucky, your sword
slides uselessly along the Silica Serpent's scaly flank —
return to 343 and continue your fight with the creature.
If you are Lucky, turn to 123.

265
You rush from the forest and fend off the attack of the
second boar-faced soldier. Meanwhile, the Minstrel des-
patches the dazed soldier who began the attack. The
soldier facing you reins back his mount and turns to
See just as a third soldier, riding another gigantic lizard,
arrives on the scene and quickly decides that he, too,
will retreat. The Minstrel has other ideas, however, and
ne plucks savagely at the strings of his harp, whose
song rises to a painful crescendo. The {wo boar-faced
soldiers cannot resist the music of the harp; with glazed
eyes they dismount and trudge back to the Minstrel,
who swiftly despatches them. ‘A warrior!’ he says,
surning to you. ‘And disguised as I am. A remarkable
coincidence. My thanks to you, anyway, stranger.’ He
points to the bodies of the boar-faced saldiers. They
ze Zwinians. Wretched beings, but they are mine. | am

266—267

returning to reclaim my birthright from Frampa the
Usurper, These scum were clearly loyal to their new
master. Will you come with me? Another sword-ar=
would be useful.’ He strums the strings of his harp anz
produces a sound that seems to call to your very sou
If you do not want to accompany the Minstrel, you ca=
either rin away into the forest (turn to 1§7) or walt
away along the road (turn to 342); if you agree to ge
with him, turn to §7.

266

‘If you are a friend of the tyrant Globus,’ shrills the
Mantir, while his comrades shake their spears angrily.
‘you are no friend of the people of the plains. We pay
our tribute, which grows more onerous each year. W=
will offer no more to Globus, or to spies such as you
But you have shown bravery, and you have saved ore
of our animals so we will let you go in peace, But kees
off the plains, stranger!’

Four of the Mantirs guard you closely as you retrace
your steps back towards the higher ground at the foot
of the cliff, You have nowhere to go but up the path
that climbs in a zig-zag up the face of the cliff. Turn te
12,

267
Wayland listens to your story, then ponders silently for
some time. ‘I'm an Artefacts expert,’ he says at last
‘And, strictly speaking, the Aleph isn’t an Artefact. It's
not anything, really, on account of it being everything
if you see what I] mean. Be that as it may, your rea

268—269

sroolem is the Spectral Stalkers. This fellow Globus
tay be anxious to take delivery of this here Aleph, but
sever folk have been looking for this item for more
=<ars than there are books in this library, and waiting a
wale longer won't hurt anybody. But those Spectral
stzlkers, they don’t sound as if they're inclined to wait.

=ce you're away from Limbo, use the Aleph to travel.
: wl take you where it wants to go, Keep moving and
Se Stalkers won't find you. Also, look for Signs and
Fortents. Round, the signs will be, like the Aleph itself.
<ad if you don’t understand them, let the Aleph take
mou to the sage Semeion Cryptoglyphos: he'll explain
Sem. But keep moving to avoid danger. And now, you
sust leave Limbo.’ Wayland points to a doorway
engraved with the word EXIT. Dazed by his words,
wou step through it. Turn to 185.

268

‘You hurl the Aleph at the glowing crystal but objects
can pass through the transparent walls of light only if
‘hey are moving very slowly — and the Aleph merely
>ounces off the Prism and falls to the floor. As the
Scectral Stalkers lurch in your direction, you become
=antic with fear, clawing at the transparent Prism with
your bare hands. Tentacles seize your legs and your
last sight is of the Archmage’s gloating face.

269
‘rou exchange 2 Gold Pieces for the spherical map of
Titan, Metron also insists that you take several sheets
at paper and a strange writing implement called a
rencil, saying that you never know when you might
270

need to make a map of your own (record this trans-
action on your Adventure Sheet). The Mapmaker then
busies himself at a desk, making calculations and scrib-
bling notes and papers. After a few minutes he turns,
and seems surprised to see you. ‘Are you still here?’ he
says. ‘Run along now. Can't you see ]'m busy? Be off
with you!’

If you want to return to the small chamber from which
you arrived in the Mapmaker’s study, turn to 42; if you
would rather use the Aleph to take you elsewhere, turn
to 247.

270

The Mantir tells you that he wants 8 Gold Pieces in
compensation for the Colepod you have killed. If you
do not have such a large sum, or are unwilling to pay it.
the Mantir says that he will accept a jewel or a finely-
worked object of precious metal instead; if you have a
Ring of Light, a Jewel of Sleep, a Seven-Pointed Star
Talisman, or a Silver Dagger, any one of these items
will be acceptable. If you cannot, or will not, offer
either the money or one of these items, you will have
to fight the duel — turn to 223.

271-272

I you are willing to pay, remember to cross the Gold
Pieces or the object from your Adventure Sheet. Pleased
with this transaction, the Mantirs are making ready to
depart, when one of them looks skyward and shrieks in
alarm — tum to 388.

271

Restore 1 point of Luck. You have awoken and
acted just in time to save your life. As you leap across
the room you realize that the eyes are watching you
from a crack in the floorboards — a concealed trapdoor,
which begins to open, revealing a Goblin with a knife.
But you are already in position to grasp the trapdoor
and slam it shut, knocking the Goblin backwards. You
stand on the trapdoor and listen in amusement to the
confused and angry Goblin voices below. You hear the
voices recede, and then the sound of oars paddling
through the water as the Goblins return home empty-
handed. The Goblin leader dropped his knife inside
your room when you slammed the trapdoor on his
head. You pick it up; it is a dagger with a carved
wooden handle and a blade of pure silver. You may
keep it if you want to. As there is no means of securing
the trapdoor from inside your room, you stay awake
until dawn. Turn to 4o.

272
You make slow progress along the dark, rock-strewn
valleys. The walls of the ravine are now too high for
you to climb, but you feel more secure in the unlit
depths. If you have Provisions, you may stop to eat a
meal and restore up to 4 points of sTAMINA. You

273

stumble on for some time until the steep-sided valley
ends at a stone wall. You look up to see that you are at
the base of an enormous tower. Stone steps rise from
the floor of the canyon and lead to an open stairway
that curves upwards round the outside of the tower.
You pace cautiously up the stairs until you are on the
far side of the tower, You are already far above the
ravine, and you feel exposed to view from all sides, but
you are still far from the top of the tower. In front of
you, set into the massive stonework, is a wooden door
that you presume gives access to the interior of the
tower. Will you continue up the stairs (turn to 70); or
will you try to open the door (turn to 199)?

273
Suddenly the old woman is no longer within the circle
of fires, which leap up to form a wall of flames around
you. Through the flickering tongues of fire you can see
her glaring at you, her hands moving in the air to trace
the pattern of a witch’s curse. Reduce your Luck by
t point You do not want to risk jumping through
the Hames; ner do you intend to stay in the cave while
the crone casts another spell. You use the Aleph to
leave. Turn to 30.

274-275

274

At last the door is free of fungus and the latch is
uncovered, but you cannot see it. Drowning in a sea of
black, viscous smog, your eyes are blinded by tears of
pain and your lungs are filled with poisonous fumes.
You scrabble weakly at the wooden door — and, just as
you are about to collapse, your hand finds the latch.
You pull open the door, fall through it, slam it shut
behind you and sink gratefully to the floor of the
corridor beyond. The air in these tunnels is not the
teshest, but to you it smells as sweet and pure as a
mountain breeze. After resting a while, you pick your-
self up and continue along the passage. Turn to 148.

275
The Library seems to extend limitlessly in all directions.
No matter how far you march along any corridor, it
mill stretches away ahead of you as far as you can see,
The only interruptions in the endless lines of books are
Se sporadic gaps between the shelves where cross-
passages and stairways lead to other corridors. Occa-
Sonally the silence is broken by the distant echoes of
voices or footsteps, but you meet no one. Sometimes
you pause to examine the volumes on the shelves, but
enly very rarely do you find one that is written in a
=nguage you understand. Eventually you plod down a

Sarcase and find yourself at a point where four cor-

mdors meet. You have lost all sense of direction, but
Sus crossroads looks very similar to the place where
you arrived in the Library, although there is now no
Szquiries desk, You choose one of the four corridors:
turn Eo either 164, 243, 298 or 373.

276-278

276

The grass is taller than you expected and the tallest
dumps, towering high above your head, consist of
dlades as thick and tough as saplings. As you cut a path
with your sword, you hear the. sound of pounding
nooves and crashing vegetation — and suddenly an
animal appears, charging straight at you through the
arass! [t is a Colepod; it resembles a gigantic insect in
cnat it has six legs and a domed carapace, though in
size and behaviour it is more like a maddened bull. In a
=zenzy of fear it bears down on you heedlessly, Will
you attempt to thrust your sword into it (turn to 160),
seize it with your bare hands and try to grapple it to
ne ground (turn to 364), or jump out of its path (turn
2075)?

277

You cup your hands and plunge them into the basin;
you withdraw them and drink. The liquid is water; in
cact it is possibly the most refreshing water you have
ever tasted, and you realize that it is doing more than
merely quenching your thirst. Soon you feel fully fit
and ready for anything. Restore your sTAMINA to its
ZsiHal score, and turn to 20.

278
the innkeeper’s sword is a doughty weapon, but the
mnkeeper himself is out of condition. You fight him in
ne fading light of dusk

INNKEEPER SKILL 6 STAMINA 5

= you defeat him, turn to 97.
279-280

279

To jump the distance from the middle of the moat to
the bank would be difficult under the best of circum
stances; to attempt it from a swaying, rocking slab of
stone is almost impossible. To make matters worse, just
as you exert all the strength in your legs to propel you
towards your target, the doorway jerks its ‘tongue’
towards its ‘mouth’. The result is that you suddenly
have no base from which to jump and you topple
inelegantly into the moat. For a few moments you flail
helplessly, before sinking beneath the bright blue ripples
for ever

280

The Grappler is in charge of this survey ship’s wildlife
collection. lt is programmed to tend the various life-
forms that are kept in the cages, and to capture any that
escape. As far as jt is concerned, you are an escaped
animal and must be recaptured. Manoeuvering swiftly,
it blocks your attempts to sidestep and, extending its
telescopic limbs, it closes in on you.

You point Extinguisher’s nozzle at the Grappler’s head
and pull the trigger. Instead of a gout of flame or a
blast of explosive pellets, all that emerges from the
weapon is a stream of creamy liquid that coats the
Grappler’s dome but does nothing to slow its attack
Cursing, you dodge its flailing limbs, but as you do so
you realize that the creature’s movements are becoming
less co-ordinated. You scramble over to one side of the
room and watch as the viscous fluid, seeping into the
Grappler’s mechanical innards, makes it run out of

281-282

control. It collides with the metal cupboard, its arms
windmill wildly for a few seconds, and then, in a
shower of sparks, it stops moving. Restore 1 point of
Luck. Turn to §5.

281

Expecting another shower of digestive juices at any
moment, you scrabble in your backpack for the spherical
map. Your eyes are now accustomed to the deep gloom,
and you are able to take careful aim before you hurl the
ball into the Lithogen’s throat. Cross the map from
your Adventure Sheet then roll two dice. If the total is
equal to, or less than, your sxiti, turn to 154; if the
total is greater than your SKILL, tum to 165.

282

Across the courtyard an old man is leaning from a
balcony. He waves to you. ‘Greetings!’ he calls. 1 am
Semeion, known as Cryptoglyphos because I read the
meanings of signs and symbols. You have done well to
ind my innermost courtyard. If you would speak with
me, ascend the staircase below this balcony. The way is
bonger than it looks, for the stairs twist strangely, but I
will await you here.’ If you accept this invitation, turn
to 260. If you decide instead that you have had enough
of Semeion’s labyrinthine dwelling, you can use the
Aleph to take you elsewhere: you take the sphere from
your backpack, and lose yourself in its swirling images
~ turn to 234.

283—285

283

Taking the glowing sphere from your backpack, you
gaze into its infinite depths. Instantly you are enthralled
by the numberless panoramas that swirl within the
Aleph, each scene impossibly small and yet perfectly
real. The longer you gaze, the more you can see: men
and monsters, humble villages and glittering cities,
rolling landscapes and shimmering planets. You feel
yourself being enveloped by the Aleph and transported
within it, Roll one die. If you roll an even number, turn
to 180. If you roll an.odd number, turn to 171,

284

The small voice in the back of your mind cannot make
itself heard. You continue to see the drug-induced
parade of visions, even while Necromon is tightening
the leather straps that secure you to his table. You die
without even the small satisfaction that no part of you
will be wasted: Necromon needs strong limbs and
organs such as yours to augment the powers of the
monster he is creating in his other room.

285
It seems you will walk forever in these shadow-filled
corridors that turn to right and left with bewildering
frequency — until at last you turn yet another comer
and see daylight ahead of you. Ducking through the
doorway at the end of the passage, you find yourself in
a square courtyard. Sunlight filters down the shaft
made by the courtyard’s walls to illuminate the tree
that grows in the centre of the floor. You circle the tree

286

suspiciously, but it seems to harbour no dangerous
creatures. You sit on the bench next to it and read the
notice nailed to its trunk:

Of Semeion’s six outer courts

Two have been made for ease:

Beneath these branches gather thoughts;
The fountain's waters please.

Aft Semeion's gate there is a block.
Recall then fount and free;

Their pleasant settings will unlock

The secret of the key,

There is no sign of a fountain in this courtyard; you
assume it must be in another. You rest here and, if you
have Provisions, you can eat a meal and restore up to 4
points of STAMINA. Then you decide to move on.
Facing the doorway engraved with the circle and trian-
gle symbol, you choose through which doorway you
will leave: the one in front of you (turn to 153), the one
behind you (turn to 2§7), the one to your right (turn to
317), or the one to your left (turn to 78).

286
You place your hand on the door and push, but it will
not budge. Determined to move it, you put your
shoulder against the centre of the door — and as you do
so the brass knocker descends on your head! Lose 2
points of sTAMINA. As you fall to the ground,
dutching your throbbing cranium, you hear the low
voice saying: "You are a human warrior. You possess
eight coins of gold. Please insert four coins into the slot
and enter.’ Will you pay the door its entrance fee of 4

287-288

Gold Pieces and then push it again (turn to 147); or
will you abandon this painful door and look for a way
out of the Library {tum to 27)?

287

Leaping from the cover of the bush, you are able to
strike before the creature is aware of you. But although
your sword shatters several of its scintillating scales,
the creature seems to be unharmed, and twists round to
face you. It is a Silica Serpent, a dangerous adversary
Glassy scales protect its head and body, it moves very
quickly, snapping at you with its fang-filled mouth and
each time it attacks it squirts from its face a jet of acid
that corrodes anything it touches.

SILICA SERPENT SKILL 7 STAMINA 11

Each combat round, after you have resolved the combat
between your sword and the Serpent's fangs, compare
Attack Strengths a second time. If you win, or the
scores are the same, you have avoided the jet of acid:
but if you lose, you are splashed with the liquid and
must lose 2 points of sTAMINA, Keep a note of the
number of Attack Rounds you fight. If at any time you
decide to use your Luck in combat, tum to ruo. If
you are still alive after four Attack Rounds, tum to 50

288
You put the pipes to your lips and blow softly into
them. Strange, discordant notes float into the air and
the effect on the Silica Serpent is immediate. The crea-
ture cocks its great head on one side, like a dog
listening to its master’s voice. As you continue to play

289-290

i curls its long body into a circle and goes to sleep,
Not daring to cease piping, you tiptoe past the scaly
monster ~ and then continue on your way towards the
Vitreous Citadel. Tum to 336.

289

You fling open the door, grab your backpack and jump
‘rom the wagon, landing on the pitted surface of the
stony road. Roll one die and subtract half the result
from your STAMINA {round fractions up). IF you are
still alive, you crawl painfully into the shade of a
hedgerow and inspect the contents of your pack, Amaz-
mgly, nothing has been broken — restore « point of
cuck — and you find that somehow you have collec-
ted one of the Conjuror’s small, circular calling-cards. It
displays the words Marvip the Magician above a picture
of a tall figure with a black cloak and a glowing wand.
The shape of the card reminds you of the Aleph, so you
keep it. As you are alone on the road and can see no
travellers or settlements, you decide to use the Aleph
to go elsewhere. Turn to 63.

290
You press the button on the right-hand part of the
design. Nothing happens ~ except that you are sure the
oor shudders slightly. If you want to remain here in
she hope of trying the other button, tum to 95; if you
decide to return along the tunnel turn to 122.
291

291
‘ou are aware of feeling sick and weary. Your limbs
zche. You can feel ropes tied tight around your wrists
znd your torso. You force your eyes to open.

ou are tied to a stone pillar at the top of a round
sower. The pillar is one of many that rise from the
zerimeter of the flagstone floor to support the tower's
-2of, and there are prisoners tied to most of the other
>llars. You seem to be the only human; among the
hers are an Elf woman, an amphibious Vaskind and
=ne of the four-legged, insect-like Mantirs. Perched on
‘ne parapet that surrounds this topmost level of the
sawer are several Black Shadows; two more are
=ouched at your feet, investigating the contents of
sour backpack. Your heart sinks as they find the Aleph
ind begin to chatter excitedly. However, it seems they
szre not keep it, for they leave it, with your other
=longings, at the foot of your pillar. Then, after ensur-
°g that all the prisoners are securely roped, all the
Sack Shadows take to the air and flap upwards, speed-
og urgently towards the top of the cliff that overlooks
ven this soaring tower-top. Once they are out of
=sht, you begin to struggle in your bonds; but despite
your efforts you cannot escape, nor can you reach your
ssord or your pack. You look hopelessly at your
=ossessions, scattered at your feet. If, among them, you
szve a clown puppet in a glass ball, turn to §6; if not,
vn to 2065.
292-293

292

You follow the twisting tunnel, aware of side-passages
and junctions, and soon you are blundering about in a
black Jabyrinth of subterranean paths. At Jast you see
light; the shape of a door outlined by a yellow gleam
You step through into a small room furnished as 4
study. Avoiding an area of the floor on which arcane
symbols have been chalked, you move towards the log
fire that is blazing in the fireplace, only to awaken the
red-robed old woman who is dozing in an armchair. She
stares at you in horror before stammering that you
should not be here in her workroom. You try to assure
her that you mean no harm, and she begins to relax.
You explain that you are trying to escape from Syzuk
the Devastator, and she smiles at you. ‘Drink this,’ she
says, pouring a thick brown liquid from a bottle into a
pewter flagon. ‘Tt will restore your strength and calm
your nerves.’ You sniff the liquid: it smells wholesome,
like a good vegetable soup, and you drink it. The old
woman — Glund’s Chief Priestess — told no lies; the
drink restores up to 4 points of sTAMINA. It also
relaxes you, and within a minute you are completely
paralyzed! She summons a squad of Skeletal Warriors,
who knock you unconscious and carry you away. Tum
to 215.

293
Roll one die. The result is the number of minutes that
you spend in your increasingly frantic search for an exit
from this benighted cave. During all this time dozens of
little Shadowlings, hidden in the darkness, are hounding
you, leaping on to your body and sucking your blood.

294-296

You lose stamina at the rate of one point for each
minute you remain in the room. If you survive, your
Eailing arms discover, not one, but two tunnels leading
from the cave. Feeling your way with your hands, you
take a few steps along each of them before deciding
which one to use. Both tunnels are narrow, but seem
passable; will you take the one that leads downward
(turn to 196), or the one that leads upward (turn to
258)?

204

You emerge from your hiding place and the Wood

ives turn to stare at you in amazement. If you have
the rune-inscribed hub of a war-chariot wheel, you
mow that Elves fear it; if you decide to produce it from
your backpack tum to 313. Otherwise, hoping that
they are friendly, you speak to them in greeting — turn
to 1§0,

295

This move saves your own life, but it loses the game
for Drawenna. You can attack the black warrior in front
of you, but he can defend himself simply by turning his
well-armoured back on you. Your two white comrades
succeed in killing the black warrior caught between
them — but then it is the turn of the black side to make
a move and attack. Turn to 228.

296
An Elf Woman is tied to the nearest column. 1 cannot
tell who or what you are, stranger,’ she says in a weak
voice, ‘but please release us and help us to escape from
297-298

here if you can.’ As you cut through her bonds, you ask
her why she and the other captives are kept here. “The
Black Shadows keep prisoners at the top of each of
their towers,’ she replies. “They suck our blood for
food. This turret is a larder for the Black Shadows — and
they will return soon to feed. Release the others,
quickly!’ Soon you have released a motley troop of
captives, all of them anxious to leave the tower. Will
you lead them down the staircase that spirals precari-
ously round the outside of the tower (turn to 14); or
through the trapdoor in the centre of the flagstone
floor (turn to 192)?

297
The doorway is real, but the stairs are an illusion that
conceals a wide crevasse in the rocks — into which you
fall. Your adventure ends here.

298
You have been walking for what feels like hours be-
tween the towering shelves of books, when you stop ir
amazement: you have found a door at last, set into the
side of one of the bookcases. The door is ajar, and you
can hear the murmur of voices beyond it. A large sign
on the door announces:

CLASSIFICATION DEPARTMENT
NO ADMITTANCE

Will you enter (turn to 11)? Or would you rather returr,
to the crossroads and try one of the other corridors

(164, 373 or 243)?

299-301

299

You are indeed in luck. Something is falling towards
you: a rope, unrolling as it drops. You grab it, wind it
about your arm and cling to it helplessly. Several
Ophidians scuttle down the sheer wall of rock with the
agility of insects, and half drag, half carry you upwards.
At the entrance to the cave, they use the rope to bind
you tightly. Two tunnels lead away into the darkness;
you are carried along the left-hand passage and into a
cavern full of tethered Silica Serpents, each one guarded
by several Ophidians. Turn to 53.

300

The Spectral Stalkers have found you! As the frst
monstrosity turns towards you, and you see yourself
reflected a thousand times in the facets of its huge eyes,
:wo others are rapidly taking shape. You try to flee but
with an insect-like bound one of them jumps in front of
you. You are surrounded. Jn desperation you strike out,
out your blows have no effect on these unnatural
creatures. Their talons rake your body; their tentacles
rope about your limbs. Screaming in fear, you lose
consciousness. Your final thought is that both your
guest and your life are over

‘r you have a clay ball that rattles, turn to 325; if not,
Tum to §4

301
30on you are standing alongside the EIf Grondel, your
ankles shackled. ‘I’m sorry,’ the old Elf says, ‘t didn’t
mean to involve you in this dispute. Now we are both
301

doomed.’ You point out that as he was able to summon
you to this underground city, surely he has the power
to free himself. ‘My powers were exhausted in bringing
you here,’ he sighs, casting a worried glance up to the
huge mouth-spout that looms over you, ‘and now
Vacavon will rain death upon us. The water that flows
from yonder spout is poisoned: when it falls upon us, it
will instantly rot our flesh. Nothing can save us from
the downpour.’

If you have a bottle of Siccator, and want to share it
with Grondel, tum to 73; if you have an Umbrella, tum
to 144; if you want to abandon Grondel to his fate,
and use the Aleph to escape, turn to 377; but if you
decide to do nothing but wait patiently in your chains,
turn to 166

9945593

302

You start to shiver as soon as you cross the threshold.
The room is as cold as a winter night — and the huge
cube is a solid block of ice. You peer into the centre of
che block: embedded at the heart of the ice is a dark,
numanoid shape. You notice an ironic sign: Here is
mreserved an enemy of Globus — behold her Power and
Majesty! You notice that the surface of the ice-block is
running with water and when you touch the block,
shards of ice fall away, The entire cube is only just
sozen, and would melt easily if you could provide a
source of heat. If you have a Glowcandle or a Heat-
sword, and want to try to melt the ice, turn to 376;
otherwise, you leave this room and, crossing the ante-
chamber, you step through the dark doorway — tum
to 118

393
Your white comrade on square F6 accepts your decision
and moves forward to Dé. He turns to face you. The
alack warrior on square Es suddenly realizes that he is
between you and your white comrade, and he tums
sack and forth in a futile attempt to use his armour to
shield himself from attack from two opposite sides, As
+t it has a life of its own, your pike descends to a
norizontal position and lunges repeatedly at the black
wartior; your comrade’s weapon does the same. In an
mstant the black warrior is dead, There are no more
attacks that can successfully be made by the white side;
now it is the turn of the black side to make a move and
attack. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 228; if
you are Unlucky, turn to 32.
394-395

304

‘We are subjects of Globus,’ shrills the Mantir leader,
‘but we hate him. He demands tributes which are more
onerous with each passing year; his foul pets terrorize
our herds and the peoples of our tribes. We can do
nothing against him — for we cannot hope to scale the
cliffs to reach him. All [ can do is to offer you some
information which might help you. At the top of yonder
cliffs is the second tier of this world. Avoid the towers
of the Black Shadows, and go instead towards the caves
of the Ophidians, the keepers of the Silica Serpents.
They will not welcome you — they, too, are Globus’s
creatures — but they are less dangerous than the Black
Shadows. Steal, if you can, a set of Ophidian pipes: the
music of this instrument controls Silica Serpents.
Beyond, on the third tier, is the Crystal Garden, as
deadly as it is beautiful, and guarded by more Silica
Serpents: and in the midst of the Garden is the Vitreous
Citadel, where Globus sits and plots, That place must
be your goal.’

As he finishes his speech, one of the Mantirs looks
skyward and gives a shriek of alarm. Tum to 388.

305
You walk towards the daylight and, ducking under a
lintel engraved with the circle and triangle motif, you
find yourself back at the entrance to the maze, You
wander across the rocky ledge, but can find no path
either up or down the face of the cliff. It is then that
you notice that the large flat-topped boulder near the
portal has something etched into its surface — a map of

395

the maze. (The diagram and the words that accompany
it are reproduced on the inside front cover of this book.
You may study this and, if you accepted pencil and
paper from Metron the Mapmaker, you may make a
copy of it — in other words you may refer to the
diagram at any time during your travels in the maze.)
Also on the boulder is a package: you open it and find a
meal which, if you eat it, can restore up to 4 points of
STAMINA. Written on the package is the message:
Senizion’s abode is not easy to discover: try again, traveller,
f vou seek enlighteroment.

The sun is high in the sky, and you feel in need of a rest
m the warmth. You doze and fall into a deep sleep
which lasts through the night. You wake at dawn to see
the sun rising above the highest of the distant moun-
tains. If you decide to make another attempt to enter
Semeion’s maze, turn to 149) if you prefer to use the
Aleph to travel elsewhere, you pull the glowing sphere
from your pack and stare into it, allowing yourself to
de enveloped by the teeming images — turn to 234,

306-307

306

The soldiers are Ophidians, a people who, as you are
about to witness, have the skills to control the Silica
Serpents. Two of the Ophidians guard you; the others
surround the Serpent which, although trapped, is any-
thing but harmless: it spits jets of corrosive liquid at the
Ophidians. The acid has no effect on the Ophidians,
however, as it merely runs off their glassy plates of
armour, and they pay almost no attention to the crea-
ture’s angry splutters. Instead, one takes the pipes from
nis belt and begins to play upon them; there is no
recognizable tune but the Silica Serpent seems to find
the music very relaxing, It stops spitting and struggling,
and the Ophidians move in to muzzle its scaly jaws and
pind up its diaphanous wings. At this point one of your
guards goes to assist his comrades, leaving only one
Ophidian watching over you. It seems that now is the
dest moment for you to escape, If you want to make a
oreak for it you must first vanquish the one remaining
guard — tum to 327; if you would rather remain a
prisoner of the Ophidians, turn to 133.

397
The Spectral Stalkers have found you! As the first
monstrosity turns towards you, and you see yourself
reflected a thousand times in the facets of its huge eyes,
<wo others are rapidly taking shape. You try to flee but
with an insect-like bound one of them jumps in front of
you. You are surrounded. In desperation you strike out,
out your blows have no effect on these unnatural
creatures, Their talons rake your body; their tentacles
rope about your limbs, Screaming in fear, you lose
308 309-310
consciousness. Your final thought is that both yous

Do you want to attempt to use the Telopticon (tum to
quest and your life are over.

332)? Or are you becoming impatient with Semeion’s

Rol] three dice and deduct the total from your sTam- vague words, and anxious to leave (tum to 23)?

INA. If, by some miracle, you are still alive, you regain
your senses, groaning, your body racked with pain
You have survived the onslaught of the Spectral Stalk-
ers; but where have they taken you? Turn to 392.

309

You put the Hom to your lips and blow. The first
blaring note is enough to terrify the creatures that were
=out to attack you, scattering them like leaves in a
=ust of wind; then, although you have exhausted the
Sreath in your lungs, the noise from the Horn continues,
Secoming ever louder, Swarms of Black Shadows rise
mto the air in frantic confusion and soon the whole
mass of them is disappearing skywards. At last the
Sorn’s blast fades. The Mantirs pick themselves up
mom the ground and, once they have regained their
=nses, they overwhelm you with thanks. They depart
® gather the scattered herds of Colepods, but the
wader asks you to remain here, promising to return
with a reward for your help, A little later he canters
sack to you, bearing a gift of honeycake (which you
can eat; if restores up to 4 points of STAMINA) and a
weapon in a brightly-decorated scabbard. He explains
that the weapon is a Heatsword; when unsheathed, the
Made becomes hot without losing the keenness of its
edge. When you strike an opponent, it will cause the
boss of 1 additional point of stamina. After thank-
wg the Mantir, you make your way back to the place
where a path begins its ascent of the vast cliff. Turn to
¥2.

308
Semeion escorts you.up another of his curious staircases
and into a long room lined with shelves. He tells you
the room is his library, but you can see no books, The
shelves are full of smooth metal cylinders, one of which
Semeion takes and places at the centre of a disc which
is set into the top of a tall thin cabinet. The disc is a
turntable that Semeions operates with his foot; and as
the cylinder rotates with the disc, Semeion brushes it
lightly with his fingers. He stops the disc and turns to
you. ‘I know only a little about Globus,’ he says. ‘He is
an Archmage, a senior magician of great power. His
home is the Ziggurat World; he lives on the topmost
tier, in a well-guarded Citadel. Surrounding the Citadel
is the Crystal Garden, of which I know only that it is
beautiful but deadly. There is a secret passage that runs
to the Citadel from the level below the Crystal Garden.
One more thing: by a lucky chance, the Ziggurat
World is one of the realms that is ethereally connected
to the Telopticon — a device which enables me to see
afar without leaving here. Would you like to try to see
Globus’s home world? Or perhaps we could spy on the -
Spectral Stalkers?’

310
You step through the curtain and into a dark, narrow

311

passage that runs along the length of the wagon, Yo
overhear the Conjuror, on the other side of the curtair.
whispering instructions to his assistant. ‘Felice!’ he
hisses. ‘Put the warrior in the back room with the gir!,
then get to the front. I'll keep this bunch of peasants
guessing with some spiel or other. Then, when I shou:
lash the horses and we'll make a break for it.’ The cat-
woman purrs in agreement, and brushes aside the cur-
tain to join you in the passage, She points to a door 2

one end, and pushes you towards it. If you decide to le*

yourself be shoved into the back room, turn to 24. E

you stand your ground and defend yourself against the
cat-woman, turn to 236, If you want to try to escape by
running through the curtain, across the stage and ints
the crowd, turn to 361,

311
To jump the distance from the middle of the moat to
the bank would be difficult under the best of circum-
stances; to attempt it from a swaying, rocking slab oc:
stone is almost impossible. However, just as you aré
exerting all the strength in your legs to propel you
towards the doorway, the doorway itself helps you bx
jerking its ‘tongue’ into its ‘mouth’. Although this
sudden movement was intended to finish you off, ©
provides extra momentum for your jump and you lane
on the end of the stone slab just as it is disappearing
into the doorway. You stumble, fall and almost slip ints
the moat; then you recover, scrabble for the slab anc
somehow manage to hold on. You have succeeded 9
entering the Vitreous Citadel. Tur to 189.

312-314

312
Gratefully, you drain the flagon of ale. Shortly after-
wards you fall into a drugged stupor and fail to wake
=p even when the Goblins enter your room through
zne secret trapdoor. The local gossip about the inn is

correct; the innkeeper sells his guests to the man-eating

Goblins. Your adventure ends here

I
tou pull the wheel-hub from your backpack and reveal
= runic inscription to the Wood Elves, One glance at it
's enough to send them running into the woods, wailing
- terror, You turn your attention to the captive in the

aet. Turn to 125,

14
lam the Oracle, the old woman cackles, ‘and you are a
warrior on a perilous quest. I sense that you carry a
zreat burden and are hunted by fell and remorseless

creatures. But all this you know, and all too well, |

suspect, Tell me something that you do not yet under-
s:and and | will unravel it for you.’

You are almost speechless with shock after the events
= the sunlit parkland and your sudden arval in this
cave, but you manage to stammer an account of your
recent experiences. You show the crone the Hunting-
Horn. ‘I can explain these things,’ she says. ‘But first,
zive me gold! Two pieces of gold to hear the words of
=ae Oracle!’ This demand takes you by surprise. If you
sive her 2 Gold Pieces, deduct them from your Adven-
sare Sheet and tum to 111; if you are unwilling or
wnable to pay, turn to 273.

315-316

515

Holding your breath at every step, you climb upwards.
You reach the nineteenth step without feeling the
slightest tremor. Carefully, you leap over the twentieth
without touching it, and land on the twenty-first step.
Nothing happens and you advance confidently up the
rest of the stairway. You have no way of knowing how
many more steps are booby-trapped, of course, so to be
safe you avoid the thirty-third, the fifty-fourth, the
eighty-eighth, and so on. There are many hundreds of
stairs, and your brain reels with the mental arithmetic
required to work out the next step you have to miss.
Eventually, though, you reach the top and push through
a trapdoor to find yourself in a cellar. Dim light filters
through metal grilles in the ceiling. An open staircase
climbs up one of the walls and leads to a door that, you
presume, gives on to an upper storey. The walls of the
cellar are lined with storage jars, each one almost as tall
as you. Will you climb the stairs and go through the
door (turn to 189), or investigate the contents of the
jars (turn to 35§)?

316
You place the bundle on your knees and unfold the
cloth to reveal a glowing sphere not much larger tham
your fist. At first you think it is made of glass, andl
transparent; but you peer into it and realize that it is
made of nothing — or, rather, of many things, countless
things. You see oceans, deserts and cities; suns, moons
and stars; animals and people; and many things that
you cannot recognize. You look and look, and te
sphere seems to expand until it is surrounding you.

317

Then it shrinks to its former size — and you are no
longer in the countryside near Neuburg.

You are in a vast building. On all sides, corridors
stretch away as far as your eyes can see. Every wall is
ined from floor to ceiling with shelves, and every shelf
is full of books. In front of you is a desk, over which
hang two signs. One says SILENCE/, and is completely
unnecessary as there is not a sound to be heard. The
other says ENQUIRIES. There is a little brass bell on
the desk. You cover the strange sphere again and put it
m your backpack. Will you now set off to search this
strange building (turn to 275) or ring the bell (turn to
6)?

517
Your walk along the winding passage is uneventful
wntil you reach a junction between tunnels. You are in a
fimy square chamber, its vaulted ceiling supported by
wallars set in its four corners. Three of the walls consist
= open doorways; the other is of finished stone, and

318-319

bears an inscription: So near to Semeion, and yet so far to
travel. You face the one doorway that has the circle and
triangle symbol above it, and choose which doorway
you will leave through:

The doorway before you Turn to 101
The doorway behind you Turn to 285
The left doorway Turn to 153

318

At last you reach the top of the stairway where a gap
in the parapet allows you to enter the flagstone-floored
turret that is the tower's top storey. Stone pillars rise
from the perimeter of the floor to support the tower's
roof; there are prisoners tied to most of the pillars
None of the prisoners is human; you can see an Elf
woman, an amphibious Vaskind and one of the four-
legged, insect-like Mantirs. As you step cautiously
across the floor the prisoners raise their heads to stare
at you in amazement. Turn to 296.

319
The big man is jovial, but retains his grip on his sword.
‘Welcome, stranger!’ he booms, ‘to the Inn of the
Ghostly Visitors. Don’t be alarmed by the name of my
fine establishment — il’s just my little joke! You know
this part of the world? Then you'll have heard the
stories. Folk say this place is haunted — that people
disappear mysteriously in the night. A load of old
wives’ tales. Don’t believe a word of it. Anyway, this is
the only inn for leagues around, so you don’t have
much choice. You can take the ferry across the river im

320

the morning. Now get inside, and go upstairs — I've a
room ready for you.’ He points his sword at you
threateningly. It is true that you need somewhere to
stay for the night, but the innkeeper’s attitude makes
you suspicious and angry. If you decide to fight him
after all, turn to 278; if you accept his offer of accommo-
dation, turn to 222.

320
‘So you think I'll attack you, do you?’ snarls the Logic
Dog. ‘Well, you're quite right; and therefore, because
you have guessed correctly, I should let you pass. But if
I let you pass, your guess will be wrong; and if your
guess is wrong, as I have already promised, | will attack
you. Therefore I have no choice but to attack!’ With
that, the huge beast prepares to launch itself at you. If
you think there is a flaw in the Logic Dog's reasoning,
and want to argue with it, hum to 197; otherwise,
prepare to defend yourself — turn to 163.

=
= at
5G

‘ . ay .

>

e

yess
i , ee ; sa See
; ete 2 - wL-

321-322

321

At last you reach the top of the cliff and stand upon the
topmost tier of the Ziggurat World. You clamber over
a stone parapet, drop down the other side — and are
greeted by a sight that could scarcely be a greater
contrast with the bleak aridity of the rocky wasteland
below. In front of you stretches the Crystal Garden, a
vista of vivid colours and unnatural beauty. Jade flag-
stones surround azure fountains, full not of water but of
tinkling crystal shards; marble trees stand stiffly above
vibrant flowers of coloured glass. Through the lifeless,
scintillating vegetation you can see the shimmering
domes and towers of the Vitreous Citadel, home of the
Archmage Globus. Paths paved with opalescent frag-
ments criss-cross the Garden — but each is guarded by a
Silica Serpent, tethered to the spot but otherwise free
to attack any passer-by. To reach the Citadel you will
have to confront at least one Silica Serpent (bum to
162) ~ unless you leave the paths and try to force a
way through the beds of glass flowers (turn to 77).

322
You have clambered through the window and started
to climb downwards before you think to look where
you are. You are hanging by one hand from the sill of
the highest window in the castle, at the top of one of
che towers, overhanging the gorge which appears as a
dlack gulf below you. You start to pull yourself back
upward, but the rocking-horse bites your hand. You cry
out, let go of the windowsill — and your fading scream
's cut off by a distant thud as your body lands in the
323-324

gorge. The haunted Nursery Tower has claimed an-
other victim.

323
The crowd of green-skinned people draws back as you
run across the garden and out of the gates. ‘Stop!
shouts the robed leader, but you have gone. ‘We must
stop him! After him, Feliti brothers and sisters! Bring
back our Champion!’ There is a village outside the
garden; the dwellings are old and dilapidated, but you
assume they are inhabited and you tum away, racing
across a desolate landscape of craggy hillocks and
shrubby thickets. You turn to look at your pursuers,
and see the Feliti people running from the walled
garden — and as they emerge they change! Each one
drops to all fours and with a wailing cry is transformed
into a long, low hunting beast — like a Giant Weasel,
with green fur and a snout full of sharp teeth. You run
on, into endless grassy plains in which your pursuers
are perfectly camouflaged. The gigantic sun is setting;
you run until you are exhausted, and as you stop you
are immediately surrounded by a circle of Feliti crea-
tures. You can run no further: you must fight (tum to
68), or surrender to the Feliti (turn to 219).

324
You push open the door and step into a room illumi-
nated by torches, The first thing that strikes you is the
rank odour that fills the room; you begin to understand
its origin when you see the bloodstained butcher's
table standing in the centre of the room, and the large
jars containing limbs and internal organs preserved in

524

fluids of various colours. Anatomical diagrams of
several sorts of creatures are nailed to the walls. As you
close the door behind you, another opens in the oppo-
site wall and a small man in a bloodstained white coat
enters, and stops in surprise on seeing you. ‘A warrior!’
he exclaims. ‘A live being! This is most unusual. The
only people I ever see are the few lifeless husks that I
can beg from those beastly Black Shadows — for my
research, you understand. I am Necromon, by the way;
perhaps you've heard of me? No? Well, I’m not sur-
prised. I’ve been down here for many years. I used to
be apprenticed to the Archmage Globus, you see, but
we had a falling out. Now I live wretchedly here in this
macabre dungeon, spending all my time building the
tool with which I intend to take my revenge on Globus.
Will you assist me, warrior?

If you agree to hear Necromon’s proposal, turn to 108;
if you decline, and say you want to continue on your
way, turn to 383.

325-327

525

You regain consciousness to find yourself lying on a
marble floor. You know that you should be dead but by
some miracle you are alive, and unharmed. Your next
thought is for the Aleph, and you rummage frantically
in your backpack; the glowing sphere is there, and
undamaged, but the clay ball has crumbled into dust
You marvel at your good fortune and at the life-preserv-
ing skill of Mayrek the Potter. But perhaps your luck is
not so good: you have survived the onslaught of the
Spectral Stalkers, but where have they brought you?
Turn to 392.

326
You have only two possible moves. Will you move to
the square on your left (square F3)? If so, turn to 295.
Or will you move forward (to square £4)? Tum to ro

327
You throw yourself at the Ophidian guard. He has only
a split second in which to block your attack with his
spear. He throws a glance towards his comrades, clus-
tered round the trapped Silica Serpent, but you are
upon him again, The two of you fall to the ground
together, locked in close combat.

OPHIDIAN SKILL 7

Add 1 point to your TRAIL score. After three
Attack Rounds of combat, if you are still alive, the
other Ophidians are beginning to realize that your
opponent needs their assistance. If you have by now
killed the Ophidian guard, turn to 35; if he is still alive.
tum to 359.

STAMINA 7

328-330

328
The Ranganathans have eight fingers on each hand,
and each fingernail is as sharp as a razor. They advance,
squealing excitedly. You retreat into a corner so you
can fight them one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA

First RANGANATHAN 5 6
second RANGANATHAN 5 5
Third RANGANATHAN 4 7

lf you defeat them all, you spend some Hime searching
their room. All of the beoks you find are unintelligible,
but in a drawer of the desk you find a jar of clear liquid
dearing the label Corrective Fluid, which you may take
with you. You then return to the crossroads and begin
another long hike down one of the other corridors; turn
to either 164, 243 or 373.

329

The tunnel ends at a doorway. You step through and
find yourself in a small rectangular room with a door-
way set in each of the walls, Hanging in the shadows
close to the ceiling is a large bundle, which you ignore
until you hear a piteous moan and see that the bundle
has started to move feebly. Will you investigate (turn
to ao or concentrate on choosing your exit (turn to
45

a 330
The invisible force presses into you like bands of steel
closing about you. The pain is becoming unbearable;

331-332

consciousness is slipping away. Roll six dice, If the total
is less than your STAMINA, turn to 212; if the total is
equal to, or greater than, your STAMINA, turn to

372.

331

The runic inscription on the wheel-hub strikes terror
into the hearts of the Elves and they scatter in all
directions. You turn towards the captive, Grondel, and
he almost faints from fear until you remember to put
away the terrifying ebject. The courtyard is empty
now, and you have time to unshackle the old Elf, who
thanks you profusely. You want to leave the under-
ground city and wander away into the darkness be-
tween the decrepit buildings, looking for a secluded
place in which to unpack the Aleph. Grondel calls you
back, begging you to produce some piece of evidence
for his theory that there are worlds beyond the confines
of the Elves’ cavern, A glimpse of the Aleph, with its
teeming display of the infinite worlds of the Macro-
cosmos, would be enough to convince anyone that
other worlds exist. If you agree to show it to Grondel
and the priest, turn to 18; if you hurry into the shadows
to use it to travel elsewhere, turn to 377.

332
Semeion takes you to a chamber, deep within his
strange home, which houses his Telopticon. The strange
device consists of a hoop of metal within which bright
colours ceaselessly swirl; connected to the hoop with
bundles of wires like knotted vines are two helmets
Semeion dons a helmet; you do likewise, and immedi-

332

ately see that the colours in the hoop are clearing, to be
replaced by a picture of a world hanging in space. The
picture moves closer; the world is the Ziggurat World,
Bat tiers of land enclosed within a sphere that is half
dark, half light. Closer: you see Globus’s Citadel, its
shining domes and spires rising from the sparkling
brilliance of the Crystal Garden — and then the scene
dissolves into swirling colours once more. You hear
Semeion’s voice inside your mind: Globus has protected
his Citadel with enchantments. I can try to penetrate his
defences, but the effort will absorb certain essential salts
from our bodies, I know I can withstand the drain of
strength — but can you, warrior?

If you are determined to see inside Globus’s Citadel,
whatever the cost, turn to gg. If you would rather try
to use the Telopticon to see the Spectral Stalkers, turn

to 380. If you are anxious to continue your travels,
turn to 23.

333-334

333
You lead the little army of ex-captives through the

maze of rocky ravines, heading for the point at which
you emerged on this level from the cliff-face path.
Eventually your group arrives at the edge of the cliff
and you begin the long descent that will take the Elves,
Vaskind and Mantirs to their homes — taking with
them, perhaps, the seeds of a new spirit of co-operation
between the various peoples of the Ziggurat World. A
little way down the cliff, however, you bid farewell to
the motley group; they no longer need your guidance
and you have arrived at the point where the cliff-face
path forks. Although you are tempted to return to the
hero’s welcome that will greet you if you return home
with the prisoners you have rescued, you know that
you must explore more of this strange world, You set
off up the left-hand path; turn to 146.

334
In the dark the garden is an eerie place. The statues

seem to be watching you; the fragrance of the flowers
is overwhelming. You decide to leave, but at that
moment the robed Feliti appears at the gate. ‘We were
once a proud and populous people,’ he says as he walks
into the garden, ‘with many fine cities and palaces anc
parks, Now all is waste, and only this garden survives
But the centuries of watching and waiting were not
wasted — because you have arrived to save us. Go now,
in darkness: my poor accursed people hunt in their
animal forms only in daylight, so you will be safe from

335

them until dawn. Go to the Tyrant’s castle, find him
and kill him, and release the Feliti from his curse,’

Will you go to the Tyrant’s castle (turn to 379), or use
the Aleph to leave this world (turn to 365)?

335
This tunnel is very dark, You creep forwards, using

your hands more than your eyes, and at last you reach
~ a dead end! There is a wall of rock in front of you
Then you hear a noise, an ominous sound of grinding
rocks, and you feel the floor move slightly under your
feet If there is a way forward, the door must be
concealed; but perhaps this cul-de-sac is simply a
booby-trap for unwary explorers. If you want to remain
here to search the walls, turn to 168; if you would
rather return along the tunnel, turn to 122.

-_——

==

;

—

TS

;
3
a

336-337

336

Having reached the centre of the Crystal Garden, you
stand gazing up at the shimmering windowless walls of
the Vitreous Citadel. It is a collection of marvellous
structures, each vying with the others to amaze the
mind and dazzle the eye: towers of amber and jet,
canopies of faceted crystal, domes like enormous pearls,
walls that seem to be cataracts frozen while in motion —
all reflected in each other's glazed surfaces. The entire
edifice is surrounded by a wide moat filled with a
bright blue liquid; spirals of smoke rise ominously from
its surface, You walk around the Citadel and find that
there is only one bridge across the moat: a slab of
stone, with one end resting on the bank at your feet,
extends across the moat and disappears into the only
doorway through the Citadel’s curtain wall. The door-
way is surrounded by a frame of black marble, carved
into an abstract representation of a face, the doorway
itself being the mouth, and the stone bridge being the
tongue. To reach the Citadel you must either cross the
bridge (turn to 232), or try to wade across the moat
(turn to 378).

337
Dodging the first boulder-breaking blow of the Golem’s
mallet, you sprinkle the Siccator in a wide arc. (Cross
the Siccator from your Adventure Sheet.) The drops of
liquid sparkle in the air and splash across the Golem’s
clay torso. The effect is instantaneous: the Golem halts
in mid-stride as the slick surface of water evaporates
‘rom its body, Cracks appear as the monster attempts

338-339

to move, and as the Siccator extracts every drop of
moisture from the clay the Golem’s extremities begin
to crumble. After one final shudder, the Golem is
motionless, nothing more than a clay statue, rapidly
crumbling into a large heap of fine brown dust. You
turn away and head for the cave in the cliff. Turn to
263.

338

You advance towards the Prism of Power, shielding
your eyes from the incandescent tracery that pulses
across its facets. You press the Aleph against one of the
surfaces, After some resistance, the sphere slowly enters
the Prism and drops into the waiting hands of the
Archmage. For several seconds he gazes at it in wonder-
ment; then a ferocious scowl disfigures his noble coun-
tenance.

‘At last I have it!’ he says. ‘At last the Aleph is in my
hands. You foolish mortal! You have slaved and suffered
to bring me the one too! I need to become Lord of ali
the Macrocosmos. Every being will bow down before
me,’ Nothing can save you. You have failed in your
quest,

339

As you reach up to grasp the huge cocoon, it drops
towards you, splitting open along its underside te
reveal a moist, fetid interior ringed with fang-like spines
There is nobody inside. You are being attacked by
Karanth, a cunning creature that has the ability to use
some of the intelligence of the prey that it consumes

340

The Karanth falls on top of you. attempting to enfold
and smother you, Before you can reach a weapon, you
find yourself gripped within the Karanth’s spines, your
skin already being corroded by its digestive juices. You
will die unless you can survive without breathing until
the Karanth loosens its grip.

Roll! four dice; if the total is equal to or more than your
STAMINA, you gasp for air but breathe in only the
Karanth’s mucus secretions — your adventure ends here.
If however, the total is less than your sTAMINA, you
are still conscious when the Karanth, assuming you to
be dead, briefly relaxes. Pushing with all your might,
you burst from the Karanth’s hold and stagger away
from the creature. Breathing heavily, you take stock of
yourself, and are pleased to find that you have no
substantial wounds. The Karanth closes its body and
hoists itself up to the ceiling; you have to decide
through which doorway to leave — tum to 45.

340
You draw your sword and advance towards the Dragon.
She growls and flames flicker from her snout. ‘Typical!’
she splutters. “You young hooligan; no respect for
erudition and literature. Weapons are not pemmitted in
the Library in Limbo, so I'm just going to have to
confiscate that nasty thing.’

As your sword descends on her, she catches the blade
in her claw, snatches it out of your hand and disappears
in a puff of smoke. You are alone again. Deduct 2
points from your skrut until you can find a replace-
341

ment weapon. You have no choice but to explore this
vast Library on your own. Turn to 275,

341
You grip your sword-hilt in both hands and thrust the
blade downwards, blindly, near your trapped feet. You
feel the tip plunge into something spongy and after a
second’s pause the Lithogen reacts to this assault on its
tongue. You are lifted into the air as the tongue lashes
wildly from side to side and you can do nothing to
stop yourself being slammed against the rough walls of
the ravine as the Lithogen’s tongue convulses in agony
Lose 2 points of sTAMINA. If you are still alive, the
tongue comes to rest again — and you are stil] stuck to
it To escape, you will have to keep slicing into the
creature’s tongue and each time you do so you will be
lashed against the walls of the ravine, Roll one die; the
result is the number of further points of STAMINA you
must lose while cutting yourself free, If you survive the
attempt, you grope your way unsteadily past the un-
happy Lithogen, only to find that an unearthly lumin-
escence is growing in the shadows of the ravine; 2
Spectral Stalker has sensed your presence, and is begin-
ning to materialize. Add 1 point to your TRAIL score
then Test your Trail score, Roll three dice. If the total is
less than your TRAIL score, turn to 300, If the total is
egual to, or more than, your TRAIL score, the hideous
shape slowly dissolves — you have escaped detectio
this time, and may continue on your way. Turn to 272

342-343

42
You thank the Minstrel for his offer, but you politely
decline it and bid him farewell. As you walk away
along the road, you hear the harp begin a plaintive
melody, The sound is so beautiful that you stop to
listen; you tum, and find yourself being irresistibly
drawn back towards the harp. The Minstrel, sword in
hand, is waiting for you. ‘If you're not on my side,’ he
says, ‘you are my enemy. Come here and die.’

Somewhere in the back of your mind a small voice is
telling you that you must break away, you must run
into the forest and escape. You grit your teeth and try
to force your legs to carry you off the road and into the
shelter of the trees. Roll four dice. If the total is less
than your current sTAMINA, tum to 157; if the total
is equal to or more than your current sTAMINA, turn

to 393.

343

A Silica Serpent is a dangerous adversary. Glassy scales
protect its head and body, it moves very quickly,
snapping at you with its fang-filled mouth and each
time it attacks it squirts from its face a jet of acid that
corrodes anything it touches, But if you want to pass it,
you must defeat i.

SILICA SERPENT SKILL 7 STAMINA 11

In each Attack Round, after you have resolved the
combat between your sword and the Serpent's fangs,
compare Attack Strengths a second time. If you win, or
the scores are the same, you have avoided the jet of
3447345

acid; but if you lose, you are splashed with the liquid
and must lose 2 points of srAMINA. Keep a note of
the number of Attack Rounds you fight, If at any time
you decide to use your Luck in combat, turn to 264
After four Attack Rounds, if you are still alive, turn to
176.

344
A second pair of green eyes appears, also at floor level,

As your sight adjusts to the gloom, you can see that
both pairs of eyes are watching you from a crack in the
floorboards — or a concealed trapdoor! As you move to
defend yourself, the trapdoor is thrown open and two
Goblins jump into the room. ‘The innkeeper said the
traveller would be drugged!’ hisses one. They draw
sharp blades and advance towards you. You stand in a
corner so that you can fight them one at a time. Your
night vision is worse than theirs: temporarily reduce
your SKILL by z point for the duration of this fight.

SKILL STAMINA
First GOBLIN 5 4
Second GOBLIN 6 5

If you are still alive after three Attack Rounds, turn to
239

445
‘| have no reason to believe you,’ grunts the robed

Vaskind, ‘but you are obviously not of this world, and
perhaps you are the warrior who, according to pro-
phecy, will come to our aid against those who oppress
the Vaskind, I have expected someone rather more

346

impressive, but perhaps you'll do. We are prevented
from rising against the tyrant Globus: he has captured
and imprisoned our Queen. We used to live above, on
the shore, but we have been driven beneath the waves
by Globus's pets, the Silica Serpents and the Black
Shadows Globus's. Vitreous Citadel, which you must
reach if you are to confront him, lies on the topmost
tier of the world; around it is the Crystal Garden,
beautiful but deadly — it is guarded by Silica Serpents,
and full of dangerous blooms. Between this lowest
level and the Garden is the tier that is the home of both
the Silica Serpents and the Black Shadows; the Shadows
are the more deadly, but beneath their Grand Tower
there is a tunnel which leads straight to the Vitreous
Citadel. If you are truly an enemy of Globus, this
information might assist your quest.’

You thank the Vaskind. Restore 1 point of tuck and
add 2 Provisions for the food that you are given. Two
Vaskind escort you to the edge of the dome and create
a bubble for you to ride in; it takes you swiftly to the
surface. You wade on to the beach and head for the
path that zig-zags up the face of the cliff. Turn to 22.

346
Cerod’s strings jangle angrily as Metron places the
harp in a vice on a workbench, For many minutes the
Mapmaker is busy with rulers, protractors, tubes of
coloured fluids and instruments with flashing lights and
glowing numbers. He consults books from his library,
draws a diagram of the harp and writes pages of notes
‘A well-constructed object,’ Metron says, returning the

347-348

harp to you. ‘The strings are arranged in order of
length and the lengths are determined by a strict mathe-
matical ratio. Quite fascinating, but 1 cannot imagine
what it is for. It measures twelve and five-eighths
dronks from extremity to extremity and is made from
gubis wood. The decorations serve no function and
should be removed.’ Cerod is silent. You pluck the
strings. It sounds like an ordinary harp; it no longer has
any special properties (delete it from your Adventure
Sheet). Metron has destroyed the harp’s magical powers,
and you complain bitterly, Tum to 375.

347

Grimacing with distaste, you pull at the fleshy folds of
pallid fungus that cover the doorway. The stuff comes
away in long strips and soon you have cleared the
door. The noxious smell, you notice, seems to emanate
from the mottled skin of the fungus; the flesh inside 1s
white, looks wholesome and has a pleasant odour, You
nibble a small piece: it tastes as good as it looks. You
go on to eat several large pieces, The fungus is whole-
some: restore up to 4 points of STAMINA, You continue
peeling the fungus from the door and soon you uncover
the latch. You pull open the door, step through it and
set off along the corndor beyond. Tur to 148.

348
You flee beneath the pointed slabs of stone that are the
upper teeth of the enormous skull, and find yourself in
the dark cavern of its mouth. Looking back you see the
dull glow of the bony warriors’ eyes: they seem to be
reluctant to follow you into the mouth of their god

349-350

Glund. You breathe a sigh of relief, but you are not safe
yet. As you become accustomed to the gloom, you see
that the chute down which you slid is above you and
out of reach, and both of the two tunnels at the back of
the cavern look dark and dangerous. Your pursuers,
urged on by their leader Syzuk, are advancing hesitantly
behind you. You choose one of the tunnels and trust to
your good fortune: Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 292. If you are Unlucky, turn to raz,

You jump, The Colepod’s six heavy legs just miss you
as the creature thunders away into the long grass.
Unhurt, you pick yourself up from the ground. Tum to
41

3590
The toys move no closer to the bed, but continue to

watch you with malevolent eyes, You sit upright on
the bed, determined to stay awake all night. If you have
Provisions, you can eat one meal — but because of your
anxious state it restores only 2 points of STAMINA.
Eventually, just before dawn, you drift into sleep — and
wake to find sunlight streaming into the room and on
to the toys, which are of course ordinary and lifeless.
Wearily you shake your head, and catch sight of the
little clown in his glass sphere. You can keep him if you
want to — he reminds you of the Aleph, which you
decide to use to take you away from this haunted
castle, Turn to 61

351-352

351

In the deep darkness, the sudden appearance of your
light has a blinding brilliance. You are momentarily
dazzled; then you see that you are in a vast cavem —
and then you see the caverm’s inhabitants. Thousands
of Shadowlings — the young of the Black Shadows —
are carpeting the rocky floor, transfixed by your light.
They are somehow even more hideous than their elder
kin: their limbs are tiny, so they seem to consist only of
claws, flaps of black skin and heads with gaping mouths.
A few still cling to your body but they are stunned by
the light and easily dislodged. As soon as you move,
the others scramble away and hide behind boulders,
terrified by the light you are carrying. You make your
way to the end of the cave, where you find two
tunnels, One of them, however, appears to fall away
steeply into a noisesome pit; and you take the other,
which leads upwards. Turn to 258.

352

The curved walls are featureless and the consoles of
flashing lights are sealed units. The only enclosed space
big enough to conceal you is a tall metal cupboard —
and it is locked. You will have to try to break the lock.
Roll two dice. If the total is less than, or equal to, your
SKILL score, turn to 201. If the total is higher than
your SKILL score you cannot break the lock; you
must either wait in this strange metallic room (tum to
96), or adjust some switches and step back on to the
platform in the hope that it will transport you elsewhere
{turn to 1§1).

353-354

353

This tower is small compared to some of the others, but
it is still as wide as the keep of a castle, and much taller.
As you struggle across the rocky ground you become
aware of a commotion in the air above you; looking up,
you see a swarm of flying creatures flapping towards
you like black sheets tumbling out of the sky. They are
Black Shadows, the inhabitants of these cylindrical
towers, As they swoop closer you see that each one is
a humanoid creature, with long arms, legs, ears and tail,
all of which are connected by the membrane of black
skin that allows it to fly. You notice, too, the malevolent
red eyes, the long sharp fangs and the talons which tip
all four limbs. You hasten to the base of the tower, a
solid circular wall of black stone blocks, There is no
entrance, not so much as an arrow-slit. You put your
back to the wall and prepare to defend yourself. if you
have a Hunting-Hom tum to 80. You can try to use the
Aleph to escape from this predicament — tum to 112
Otherwise, you will have to stand and fight — turn to
178.

354
You are standing at the foot of a sheer cliff. Behind

you, in the distance, dawn is breaking behind a range of
mountains and the first rays of the morning sun are
shining directly into a portal hewn into the face of the
cliff immediately in front of where you are standing.

Will you enter the dark doorway (tur to 149) or
explore the area at the foot of the cliff (tum to 397)? If
you would rather use the Aleph to travel elsewhere,

355-356

you take the glowing sphere from your backpack and
stare into it, allowing its multitude of images to sur-
round you — tur to 234.

355
Although the jars are all the same size and shape, they

seem to be of two different sorts. Some are marked
with a roughly-stencilled diagram of a human being,
while others show a human figure enclosed within a
square. All the jars are lidded and sealed with wax. You
break open several jars and find that they all contain a
clear, odourless liquid. If you want to drink some, you
can cup your hands and drink either from one of the
jars marked with a plain figure (turn to 128), or from a
jar marked with a fgure in a square (turn to 58), If you
would rather not drink from either sort of jar, you make

your way up the stairs and leave through the door
turn to 189).

356
You put the bottle to your lips and take a mouthful of
ditter liquid. Before you can spit it out, Wayland slaps
vou between the shoulder-blades and you swallow it
Wonderful stuff!’ exclaims Wayland, ‘See? You're dry

357

as a bone already.’ He is right: somehow, the drink has
evaporated the water that had been soaked into your
clothes and hair. ‘Keep the bottle; there’s plenty more
where that came from. It’s called Siccator and one
swig Il keep any liquid off your person. Might come ip
very handy if you come across any more practica:
jokers like me.’ If you decide to keep the bottle, re-
member to note it on your Adventure Sheet. Turn te

175.

357

Your pulse pounds in your head as the pressure of the
water crushes you. Fighting to stay conscious, you
struggle with the straps of your backpack as the preci-
ous air trickles from your clenched lips. At last you
manage to find the little bottle of Siccator, lift if to your
mouth and empty the liquid down your throat. (Delete
the Siccator from your Adventure Sheet.) Your body
tingles all over; you can no Jonger feel the cold water
against your skin. Suddenly you find yourself rushing
upwards through the sea water, Siccator and wate:
simply do not mix and the sea is ejecting you like 2
stomach ejecting undigested food, You crash through
the waves in a fountain of spume and are spat out on to
the beach. You are winded and spend several minutes
recovering your breath, but otherwise you are unhurt
There is no one on the beach, and you find nothing o:
interest. You decide to climb the path that zig-zags up
the face of the cliff. Turn to 12.

358-359
358

The hunters exchange neither a glance nor a shout as
they glide swiftly in pursuit of the scattered woodland
creatures, Within a moment, they have all swept past
you; within a few seconds, they are disappearing behind
a thick clump of trees. The park is peaceful again, silent
and apparently empty of life under a cloudless sky. You
wander aimlessly for a while, but encounter no one.
There seems to be no choice but to use the Aleph to
leave this place. Turn to 30,

359

You try to disentangle yourself from the fray, but your
opponent clings to your legs. Within seconds other
Ophidians have surrounded you and you are at the
centre of a circle of spear-points. You have no doubt
that you are about to be killed. Then a shadow darkens
the air and, as they gaze upwards, the Ophidians cower
and tremble. A Spectral Stalker is forming in the air,
towering above you on four fleshless legs, Test your
Trail score, Roll three dice. If the total is equal to, or
more than, your Trait score, turn to rq; if the total
is less than your TRAIL score, tum to 300.

360-361

360

Semeion stares long and hard at the collection of objects
on the table, and then shakes his head. ‘It is no use,’ he
says, T can read nothing from these few signs. They are
like a jumbled sentence with the mast important words
mussing. | am sorry, but | need more signs.’ You have
nothing else to offer, so instead you ask Semeion if he
can give you any information about Globus. Turn to
308.

361

Even as you push her aside to force your way through
the curtain, Felice begins to change, for she is a Were-
cat, and as you struggle with the folds of heavy cloth
she rakes you with the talons that are extending from
her fur-covered hands: Roll one die and halve the result
(round fractions up); the result is the number of stam-
INA points that you lose. If you survive this attack
you manage to disentangle yourself from the curtain
and flee across the stage. Turn to 177.

362

362
As you struggle to remain upright on the s i
bridge, you rack your brains for words that sight
persuade the doorway to let you live. ‘Please!’ you
shout. ‘Please spare my life, | beg you, oh most bounti-
ful, mast finely-carved, most black and gleaming door-
way of the Citadel!’

The doorway remains silent, but the stone slab contin-
ues to rock dangerously. At last the voice speaks again.
‘That was a pretty speech,” it says, ‘and | will be
merciful. | will give you a chance to enter within my
portal. You must answer me this riddle:

Archduke Gateway am I
King of the Bridge,
Emperor of the Moat:
How many crotwons have I?’

Will you answer:

One? Turn to 136
Two? Turn to 67
Three? Turn to 226

363-364

363

Cautiously, you approach the scene of the skirmish
The Minstrel and the three boar-faced soldiers are all
dead. The harp appears to be beyond repair, although it
sounds the occasional note and calls plaintively for
help. You pick up the Minstrel’s sword and feel a surge
of strength rise up your arm. It is an enchanted sword,
and if you keep it — remember, you can use only one
weapon at a time — you may add 1 point to your SKILL
when fighting with it in combat

As you walk away into the forest, the harp rallies the
last of its energy to call after you. ‘Coward!’ it sings.
‘Traitorous dog! You could have aided me, you could
have saved my life. Now | will never resume my
rightful form, never again will I see the green hills of
my home. A thousand curses on you, cowardly travel-
ler: Cerod the Minstrel’s dying song condemns you!’ A
weight seems to settle about your heart; lose 2
points of Luck. Disconsolate, you wander into the
forest and use the Aleph to transport you elsewhere
Turn to 91,

364
Wrestling wild bulls is one of the most dangerous
entertainments demonstrated at the summer fair at Neu-
burg, but you always thought of yourself as an expert.
Grappling with a rogue Colepod is similar, but perhaps
even more difficult, It is a test of strength, agility and
endurance. As it charges at you, you duck aside at the
last minute, The creature careers past and you leap for
its neck. Locking your wrists together with your arms

365

clenched around its neck. you allow yourself to be
swept along in the Colepod’s mad gallop. Roll seven
dice: if the result is less than, or equal to, the sum of
you S$Kitt and sTAMINA, turn to 256; if the result

is greater than the sum of your skitt and
STAMINA, turn to 174,

365
You gaze into the depths of the Aleph. The glowing
sphere, small enough to lie cupped between your hands,
seems also to be infinitely large. Uncountable swarms
of visions swirl before your eyes: strange creatures,
alien peoples, towns, continents, planets, stars and
galaxies, Wherever you look there is an ever-changing
panorama of tiny yet infinitely detailed scenes. The
Aleph seems to be all around you; you are enveloped
by the Aleph, and transported within it. Roll one die. If

you roll an even number, turn to 51; if an odd number,
cum to 189.
366-367

366

You close the door behind you, turn — and find yourself
face to face with a creature from a nightmare! It is a
patchwork monster, a living being created from assorted
pieces of the bodies that Necromon begged from the
Black Shadows. More horrifying than the higgledy-pig-
gledy structure of the monster’s body is the look of
blank evil on its gigantic, misshapen head: no glimmer
of intelligence lurks in its eyes; instead, it stares at you
with a concentrated malevolence that is far worse than
mere animal savagery. It drools as it tries to mouth a
few words of challenge. You notice that a little pile of
cheap trinkets has been arranged neatly beside the
monster's otherwise jumbled bedding and possessions;
perhaps it might be distracted by jewellery. If you have
a Ring of Light, Drawenna’s blue-gemmed ring, a Jewel
of Sleep or a Seven-pointed Talisman, you may try to
distract the creature — turn to 158. If not, you will have
to try to dash past — turn to 39.

;

\

3

=

‘

:
F

367
You trudge for what seem like endless hours along a
rocky passage, until you feel weak from exhaustion.
Deduct 1 point of sTAMINA. You want to rest, but
it seems unwise to do so in the almost complete
darkness of the tunnel. At last you turn a corner to find
yourself in a square courtyard with a flagstone floor.
High above, you spy sunlight touching craggy rocks
and dim light filters down the chimney formed by the
sheer walls of the courtyard. A plume of smoke issues
from a crack near the top of the shaft — but as it spirals
downwards you realize that it is not smoke, but a

FF

368

swarm of bats! Soon they fill the courtyard, fluttering
all around you and trying to bite any area of exposed
flesh. You try to keep them at bay while working out
how to leave the courtyard, Roll three dice. If the total
is higher than your sxiLt, deduct the difference be-
tween the two scores from your sTAMINA. If you
survive the bats’ attack, you manage to see that there
are four exits from the courtyard: a doorway in the
middle of each wall. One has the circle and triangle
symbol carved above it; you face it and decide whether
to escape from the bats by going through the doorway
you are facing (tum to 26); the one behind you (turn to
206); the one to your right (turn to ror); or the one to
your left (tum to 15).

368

‘Fate has guided your hand,’ Mayrek says. ‘This ball of
clay is one of my most valuable possessions. It contains
pure life-force, and it will perhaps save you from death
one day. It will not protect you from physical harm, but
if your adversaries use magical means to drain the life
from your body the contents of this ball, if it is near
your body, will restore you. Take it, with my thanks.’

369

You depart along the avenue of statues. When you are
out of sight of the cave, you stop to examine the clay
ball. It weighs almost nothing and seems very fragile.
You shake it; it rattles. You wonder what a life-force
looks like and why it rattles. If you want to crack the
ball to inspect its contents, turn to 188. If you decide
to place it carefully in your backpack, record it on your
Adventure Sheet; and then use the Aleph to leave this
place ~ turn to 211,

369
The tall, black-garbed Ophidians and their sinuous cap-
tive, all of them glittering like glass, are easy to follow.
After leading you through steep-sided canyons and
over sharp rocky ridges, they stop finally at the foot of
4 sheer escarpment. It is clear that the Ophidians intend
to take the Silica Serpent to a cave that you can see
half-way up the wall of rock. As half of the group of
soldiers begin to scuttle up the rock face like huge black
spiders, you see that Ophidians can climb almost as
easily as they can walk. Some of the Ophidians left at
the foot of the cliff begin to play haunting, discordant
music on their pipes; others, with great caution, untie
the Silica Serpent’s wings. It seems that the music of the
pipes has made the creature docile: rising into the air, it
meekly follows the Ophidians who lead it up the cliff
towards the cave. Soon all the Ophidians, with the
Silica Serpent undulating in the air next to them, are
swarming up the sheer wall of rock, Will you try to
follow them (tum to 22); or will you stay on solid
ground and make your way towards the vast cliffs that
370-372

rise between this level of the Ziggurat World and the
next (turn to 4)?

379

You conceal yourself behind a bush and watch as four
excited Wood Elves emerge from a copse of trees
They are carrying a net within which something strug-
gles. They stop close to your hiding place, in an area
that is clear of large trees. One of them Hes the net and
its still-struggling contents to a large boulder, while
another lifts his head and gives a long, loud, wavering
cry. The others scan the skies as if waiting for something
to fall from the heavens. If you decide to make yourself
known to the Wood Elves, turn to 294; if you would
rather stay hidden and continue to watch, turn to 246

372

Struggling proves useless: the Grappler’s limbs hug
you in their metallic embrace and lift you effortlessly
into the air. Sharp pincers converge on you, and you
are sure your life is about to end. The robot strips your
clothing and possessions and you are deposited, naked,
in a cage. Perhaps, at the end of this survey ship's
expedition, you will be able to convince its owners that
you are an intelligent life-form; but this adventure is
over,

372
You are too weak to survive the pressure of the light-
beam. You remain rigid, held upright by the force of
the beam, until the last breath has been squeezed from
your body and your brain ceases to function. When the

373-375

light snaps off, your lifeless body falls to the floor in
the darkness,

373
You have been walking for what seems like hours, and

still the corridor extends before you as far as the eye
can see. As you walk, you scan the endless rows of
books, and at last one attracts your attention. Ik is as
tall as a spear and bound in fine black leather. The title,
embossed in gold down the spine, is in your language-
Weards. Will you heave the book from its place and
open it (tum to 2§9)? Or are you so weary of searching
this Library that you can think only of looking for a
way to leave it {turn to 27)?

374

Your well-aimed blow almost cleaves the Colepod’s
skull in two and the creature falls dead at your feet.
You notice that there is a chain round the animal’s neck,
hanging from which is a small metal box, inset with a
panel of glass, Upon investigation, this proves to be a
lantern, presumably with magical properties, that causes
a beam of light to issue from the glass panel whenever
the switch on the top of the box is twisted. If you want
to keep this item, note that you have a Colepod Lantern
on your Adventure Sheet. Now turn to 170.

375
The Mapmaker is amused at your attitude. “You barbar-

ians,’ He chuckles, shaking his domed head, ‘you're
always so protective about your belongings. I expect
you believe that everything you own has a lucky
376

charm in it. It’s all mumbo-jumbo, my friend, In all my
years of research I’ve not found a single magical item.
It’s all superstitious nonsense; it dissolves in the face of
Science. But let me offer you something. Your home
world is Titan, you say? Here, inscribed on a wooden
sphere, is an exact map of your world, You may have it
for only two Gold Pieces.’ You are infuriated by
Metron’s words, but fascinated by the finely-detailed
round map that he is offering to you; its size and shape
are reminiscent of the Aleph. If you decide to stifle
your anger and buy the map, tum to 269. If, however,
you cannot contain your rage, and attack the Map-
maker, turn to 107.

376

The ice melts surprisingly quickly. Soon rivulets of
water are cascading down the sides of the block and
flooding the floor. With a crash like falling masonry, a
shower of ice shards erupts from the centre of the
block, and the long-frozen body is free at last. A
terrifying figure rises above you Half again as tall as
you, with a mottled, warty skin and a wide, frog-like
face, the creature raises its huge splay-fingered hands
and roars its defiant joy at finding itself freed. ‘I am
Baratcha, Queen of the Vaskind, ruler of the sea-people
of the first level of this accursed World, and prisoner of
Globus no longer — thanks to you,’ she adds, looking
down at you for the first time. ‘What are you? Why
have you come to free me?’

As quickly as you can, you explain how you come to
be here, far from your home and stranded with the
377-379

Aleph on the topmost tier of Globus’s strange world.
Baratcha tells you that Globus himself dwells in the
room beyond the dark doorway that leads from the
antechamber. If you intend to confront him, she will
gladly accompany you. Together you cross the ante-
chamber and step through the dark doorway. Turn to
118.

377
You pull the Aleph from your backpack and as soon as

you hold the glowing sphere in your hands you are
transfixed by the teeming multitude of scenes that
seems to draw you ever more deeply into the Aleph’s
heart. Visions of bustling cities, heaving oceans and
silently rotating planets surround you on all sides. You
feel yourself being pulled amongst them. Roll one die.
If you roll an even number, turn to 145; if you roll an
odd number, turn to 126.

378
You step into the blue liquid. The Hoor of the moat
slopes steeply, and you cannot prevent yourself sliding
in until the liquid is up to your neck. And, of course, it
is acid — a fiercely corrosive vitriol that strips your
skeleton within minutes.

379
One lonely light shines in the castle’s tallest tower. As
you approach the chasm which separates the mountain
road from the sheer crag on which the castle rises, you
ensure that your footsteps are silent. But as you reach

379

the lip of the precipice a drawbridge descends from the
opposite side; candlelight flickers in the archway of the
gatehouse and a voice invites you to enter. The castle
is empty, its richly-furnished rooms thick with dust.
You make your way to the topmost chamber and there
you find the Tyrant: an aged creature, with the scaly
skin of a lizard, clutching a broken staff.

‘Do not fear me, Champion,’ he says. ‘My power is
long since spent. I have been waiting here for centuries
and | welcome the end of my boredom. | beg just one
boon before you strike me down: show me, I pray, the
means by which you came here.’ The Tyrant kneels
before you on creaking legs, and bows his head in
submission. You take the Aleph from your pack and
hold it in front of him; his eyes flash silver light. ‘At
last! Escape from this dreary place!’ — and he lunges for
the glowing sphere. Roll three dice. If the total is less
than, or equal to, your sKiLt, tum to 134. If the total
is greater than your SKILL score, turn to 16.

—_ is 7
380

380

This is your chance to stalk the Stalkers! Semeion’s thought
appears in your mind as the Telopticon’s metal hoop
clears to reveal the star-spangled blackness of the night
sky. Something is moving against the background of
pinprick lights and smudges of distant galaxies, The
picture moves closer, and you can see them: several
hideous shapes, almost incorporeal in the cold emptiness
of space — but definitely Spectral Stalkers, There are
three of them and you know that their malevolent
energy is bent upon. just one purpose: finding the
bearer of the Aleph — you.

Notice, say Semeion’s thoughts, that they are surrounded
by a halo of light ~ a faint glow that I imagine is visible
only here in the darkness between worlds. The aura is the
vistble sien of the enchantment that binds them to their
purpose. If we move closer, I can attempt to analyze the
nature of the spell, but they will probably detect our presence
Can you afford to let them see you? If you wish to
investigate the Stalkers, tum to 227; if, on the other
hand, you decide that you cannot risk gaining any
more TRAIL points, you tel! Semeion that you would
rather start on your travels again — tum to 23,

381-382

381

The sound of the Horn is less strident than when you
used it last, as if it had not yet recovered the strength it
needs to produce its deafening clamour. Not only that:
the Black Shadows seem less frightened of the noise,
and merely retreat to form a circle to prevent you
escaping. As the Hom’s blare dies away, the Black
Shadows advance again; and this time you have no
choice but to fight them. Turn to 178.

482

You should have jumped from the wagon. A Vampire
is invulnerable to ordinary weapons and the Conjuror
merely laughs as you strike him. The wounds that you
inflict heal immediately. There is no escape; the bony
fingers seize your head and pull your face to within a
centimetre of the Vampire's blazing eyes. You look up
for a second — and you are mesmerized. You are the
Conjuror’s picnic lunch as he returns home with his
new bride!
383-384

383

‘Such a pity,’ Necromon mutters. ‘I’m sure you could
have been a great help to me. I insist, at any rate, that
you follow the route which runs through my abode. If
you step through this door, and then through the door
beyond, you will find yourself on the path that leads up
to the cellars of the Archmage’s Vitreous Citadel. And
on the way I hope you will pause to admire the
weapon | am constructing to destroy Globus.’ You
think Necromon and step through the door through
which he came earlier..Turn to 366.

384
You uncork the bottle of Corrective Fluid and manage
to dribble a little of it between Syzuk’s grimacing teeth.
He chokes, splutters, shakes violently and suddenly sits
up with a look of astonishment in the depths of his
eyes. He stares at you for a moment before gravely
thanking you for saving his life; then he snatches the
arrow from his shoulder as if it were no more than a
splinter and jumps to his feet. ‘Warriors!’ he yells; and
the noise of battle is suddenly stilled. Stop fighting!
This is_all a mistake. We really shouldn't spend all our
time killing people. Let's go home and do something
less destructive, shall we?’ As one, the Skeletal Warriors
turn and begin to march away from the battle! ‘I don’t
know what was in that stuff you gave me,’ says Syzuk
‘But it’s made me feel like a new person. Devastation
and carnage just don’t have the appeal they used to.
Sorry about calling off your sacrifice at such short
notice. Can I give you a lift anywhere?’ You decline the
offer and step down from the chariot. The battlefield is

385

already almost deserted. You take the Aleph from your
pack and stare into its myriad moving pictures. It seems
to expand and surround you. Roll one die: if you roll an
even number, tum to §1; if you roll an odd number,
turn to 36,

385

Step by trembling step, you approach the skeleton. It
repeats its warning, but it does not move. At last you
are close enough to touch it, and as your fingers close
round solid bones, you laugh aloud with relief. You
withdraw your hand, and see that your palm and
fingers are glowing — the bones have been painted to
make them shine in the dark. The skeleton is real, but it
is just a lifeless collection of old bones, Ils ‘voice’
emanates from a little machine you find lodged in its
skull. Confident that you can ignore the skeleton's
doom-laden warnings, you continue to edge forward
into the darkness. Rounding the next corner, you fall
into a chasm, Your body is broken against racks long
before you finally reach the bottom of the pit.
386-387

386

You walk steadily across the marble floor of the cham-
ber. Suddenly a blaze of light flares in front of you,
illuminating the end of the room. You see before you a
vast, faceted crystal that glows with energy, a crystal
that seems to be made of nothing but light itself
Standing within it is a tall figure in white robes. Power-
ful and imposing, the being turns towards you and you
feel his eyes boring into your mind. You feel drawn
towards the crystal; and for some reason, almost with-
out noticing that you are doing it, you take the Aleph
from your backpack and hold it in your outstretched
hands. ‘I am Globus,’ says the tall figure, in a gentle
voice, ‘Archmage, and ruler of this world. Forgive me
for greeting you from within this Prism of Power but,
since I began to search for my lost bauble — which you
hold there in your hands — terrible enemies have
besieged me. My thanks for returning the little sphere
to me. You will be richly rewarded. I know your jour-
ney has been long and perilous, but now the burden will
be lifted from you. Approach, my friend, and hand the
sphere to me; it will pass through the walls of the Prisrn
if you move it slowly. Approach, and have no fear,’

If you wish to give the Aleph to Globus, turn to 338; if
not, turn to 25

387
You throw yourself at the harness of the leading war-
beast, clutching at the decorations that hang from the
plates of shining armour — but your grip fails and you
fall to the ground beneath the flailing hooves of the tall
388-389

creatures. Roll one die and lose that much sTAMINA.
If you are still alive, you jump to your feet as soon as
the hunt has passed. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 183. If you are Unlucky, turn to 358.

388

A swarm of black shapes, looking like hundreds of
scraps of cloth, is dropping out of the sky. ‘Black
Shadows!’ screams the Mantir leader. ‘Black Shadows
are coming, and the herds are unprotected. We have
been distracted from our duty by this stranger. Curse
Globus! His pets will feed on our Colepods — and on us
if we remain unprepared! Mantirs, defend yourselves'’

The sky is alive with the flapping, flailing creatures the
Mantir called Black Shadows. As they drop closer to
the ground, you see that each one is in fact a humanoid
creature, with long arms, legs, ears and tail, all of which
are connected by the membrane of black skin that
allows it to fly. You notice also the malevolent red
eyes, the long sharp fangs, and the talons at the end of
all four limbs. The Mantirs are huddled together face-
down on the ground, spears and spiked tails thrust into
the air. The Black Shadows are swooping closer; will
you min from them (turn to 2§2), or stand and fight
(turn to 120)? If you have a Hunting-Hormn, you may
blow it by turning to 309

389
The Grappler is the robot that is in charge of this
survey's ship’s wildlife collection. As far as it is con-
cerned, you are an escaped animal and must be recap-

39°

tured. Manoeuvring swiftly on its moving tracks, it
blocks your attempts to sidestep and, extending its
telescopic limbs, it closes in on you.

The Grappler has 10 points of skitt. You fight it in
the normal way, except that whenever it succeeds in
hitting you, it does not affect your sTAMENA; in-
stead, it wraps a metal tentacle around you, reducing
your SKILL by 2 points, Whenever you succeed in
hitting it, roll a die: if you roll a 5 or a 6, you have
managed to strike near a vital electronic circuit, and the
Grappler’s skit is reduced by 3 points. If you
succeed in reducing the Grappler’s sxiLL to zero,
turn to §§; if the Grappler reduces your skILt to
zero, turn to 371.

399

You draw your sword and charge into the midst of the
glass flowers, striking to right and left as you run. The
air is filled with the noise of splintering glass and the
wailing shrieks of the flowers but there are many more
blooms that remain, on all sides of you, squirting acid
from within their petals. You cannot avoid being hit;
the amount of damage you suffer depends entirely on
the speed with which you can cut your way through
the flowers. Roll three dice, and compare the total to
your skitt. If the total is greater than your SKILL,
you are wounded by the flowers’ corrosive spray: the
difference between the two figures is the number of
STAMINA points you lose. If you survive, you emerge
on the other side of the flowerbed with your clothes in
smoking tatters; but you are able to continue towards
the Vitreous Citadel. Tum to 336.
39T~392

I
The gatehouse is undefended, The portcullis is raised
and the heavy wooden doors have fallen from their
hinges. You continue across a rubble-strewn courtyard
and into a large hall which contains nothing but worm-
eaten furniture, rotting tapestries, dust and cobwebs
And then you hear voices. You are rooted to the spot,
unable to tell where the sounds are coming from. The
voices are charged with emotion, shouting, sobbing
and shrieking, and seem to be involved in a bitter
argument about the Nursery Tower. Then all is silent
again ~ until you hear once more the eerie scream, loud
at first, then fading, and finally cut off by a distant
thump. All is quiet again, but the silence is more
oppressive than the noises. You turn to leave, only to
find your way blocked by two figures, a man and a
woman, who advance on you with outstretched arms.
You cannot run back into the courtyard — will you flee
into the castle (turn to 262), or will you attack the
couple (turn to 34)?

392
You have reached the innermost chamber of the Vitre-
ous Citadel. This was the throne room and workshop
of the Archmage Globus; now, as dim lights begin to
glow along the walls, you see that the room is bare.
The hall is so long that, in the poor light, you cannot
see the far end. You turn to the door behind you but
find that it is locked, and you can see no other exit. The
silence is oppressive and you sense that your long
journey is about to reach its final conflict. You prepare
yourself for a confrontation with Globus, but suddenly

393-395

a dazzling beam of light, thrown from the far end of the
hall, catches you — and holds you fast. An invisible
force prevents you from moving; you can feel bands of
pressure about your body, gripping you, and squeezing
you more and more tightly. You cannot breathe, and
the pressure increases relentlessly. If Baratcha is with
you, turn to 237; if you are alone, but have a seven-
pointed Talisman, turn to 143. Otherwise, turn to 330.

393
You are unable to resist the cali of the Ministrel’s harp.
On unsteady legs you stagger towards the Minstrel,
but he merely smiles as he raises his sword. Your
adventure ends here.

394

As your sword-blade arcs through the air, the Black
Shadow releases its hold on the wall and leaps towards
you. The creature screeches as your weapon slices
through its membranous folds of skin, but it drops on
te you and rakes you with its talons. Preparing another
blow, you step back — into the empty air, For a second
you stand with one foot on the stairway, arms flailing,
then one final blow of the Black Shadow’s claw sends
you plummeting from the side of the tower to your
death on the rocks below.

395
You unwrap the bundle and lift up the sphere. It is no
longer shining and its moving landscapes are obscured
by grey clouds. The Dragon peers at it through her
spectacles, and frowns,

396

‘Oh dear me,’ she mutters. ‘I really don’t think that
ought to be here at all. It’s a very un-Limbo-like thing,
if you see what I mean. I advise you to take it to our
Artefacts Specialist. [f anyone knows what it is, he
does. His name is Wayland, and his office is a few
minutes’ walk along that corrider. But do be careful:
he’s a bit of a practical joker. I shouldn’t touch the
knocker on his door if | were you. Now be off with
you!’

Will you follow the Dragon’s pointing finger (turn to
243), or set off in another direction to explore the
corridors of the Library (turn to 275)?

396

You advance towards the Prism, shielding your eyes
from the incandescence that pulses across its facets.
You press the Aleph against the surface and, after
meeting some resistance, the sphere drops into the
waiting hands of the Archmage. For several seconds he
gazes at it in wonderment; then his face twists with
scom, ‘At last you have seen reason,’ he spits, ‘but
sadly for you it is too late. The Spectral Stalkers are
here, and while under my charm they must seek and
destroy the holder of the Aleph — no!!’

Globus’s face is transformed into a mask of terror as he
realizes that he is now the bearer of the Aleph. You
look up and freeze in horror as the four monstrous
demons lurch and spring towards the Prism. You back
away, but the nightmarish creatures pay no attention to
you, Their glittering eyes are fixed on the Aleph; their
wriggling tentacles are hungry only for Globus’s
397

blood. In desperation he hurls the Aleph away, but it
bounces off the inside of the Prism and returns to his
hands, Then towering skeletal legs shatter the bright
planes of the Prism, and the Spectral Stalkers are upon
him. You turn away as they snatch him into the air and
begin to rend his body. When you look back, he is
dead. One of the Spectral Stalkers retrieves the Aleph
and places it carefully next to the Archmage’s tom
corpse. Then, free at last, the Spectral Stalkers fade into
the air. Turn to 400,

397

Walking away from the cliff you find that you are not,
as you first thought, at its foot. You are on a ledge,
below which the cliff drops precipitously to a green
valley. You can find no path leading up or down the
face of the cliff, but a little way from the portal there is
a large flat-topped boulder on which you sit to watch
the sunrise. If you have some Provisions you can eat a
meal and restore up to 4 points of STAMINA.

As the sun clears the peak of the highest of the distant
mountains, its light touches the surface of the boulder -
and a pattern appears, etched in the stone. It is a
diagram of a maze surrounding a large central area; the
maze has only one entrance, and next to it is engraved
a symbol — a triangle surmounted by a circle. Above
the maze is an inscription: THE SEVEN COURTYARDS
OF SEMEION CRYPTOGLYPHOS, and below it are
three rhyming verses. You assume that the portal in the
cliff-face is the entrance to the maze.

398

(The diagram and the verses are reproduced on the
inside front cover of this book, If you accepted paper
and pencil fom Metron the Mapmaker you can make a
copy of the stone diagram to take with you into the
maze — in other words, you can refer to the inside front
cover of this book at any time in your travels. If you
have no paper and pencil, you may study the diagram
now — but once you enter the maze you must not
consult it again.)

Now you must decide: will you venture through the
portal (turn to 149), or will you take the Aleph from
your pack and, losing yourself in its myriad images,
allow it to take you elsewhere (turn to 234)?

398
The white pawn on square Gé accepts your decision
gratefully, and makes his only available move — side-
ways to square Gs. There is not a single black warrior

399-400

in a square that is directly in between any two white
warriors, so you cannot kill any of them. Now it is the
turn of Burud’s black warriors. They do not even bother
to consult each other: you hear a noise, and turn to see
that the black pawn on £3 is moving to F3. You are in
between two black warriors; and no matter how much
you tum and tum again, your armour cannot protect
you against attack from two opposite sides. Burud wins
the game and your adventure ends here.

399
You shout until your voice is as weak and exhausted as

your limbs, but no one hears you. Your legs are shaking
uncontrollably, your arms blaze with the pain of suppart-
ing your body, and your fingers, completely without
feeling, refuse to obey you. It is with a feeling almost of
relief that you let go.

400
Dazed, you sit in a corner of the hallway for some time.
Then you pick up the Aleph and make your way out of
the Vitreous Citadel. Cracks are appearing in the marble
and glass; you hear echoes of thunderous crashes as
spires and domes collapse. The Crystal Garden is now a
wildemess of shattered glass. As you make the long
descent through the levels of the Ziggurat World you
find that the Silica Serpents have been reduced to
glittering, insubstantial husks and the Black Shadows
have shrivelled into dry flaps of skin. On the lowest
level of the world the Wood Elves, Mantirs and Vaskind
receive you as a conquering hero and, during several
days of feasting and rejoicing, they load you with gifts

400

and precious gems. At last you decide that you must
try to return home; retreating to a secluded glade in the
forest, you unpack the Aleph and gaze once again into
its teeming depths, all the while thinking of Khul

You open your eyes. You are sitting in a cornfield, on a
slope overlooking the red roofs and majestic castle of a
small town. You instantly recognize Neuburg — you are
home. Your backpack is still stuffed with jewels but the
Aleph, to your disappointment, is nowhere to be seen
Perhaps it is for the best: no one has the right to
possess the Aleph; it should always remain lost some:
where amongst the myriad worlds of the Macro-

COSMOS.

More Fighting Fantasy

THE TROLLTOOTH WARS
Steve Jackson

It started with an ambush. When Balthus Dire’s bloodlusting Hill
Goblins mount their raid on the Strongarm caravan, little do they
realize what dramatic consequences their actions will have. For that
caravan carries Cunnelwort, a mystical herb from Eastern Allansia,
destined for none other than the evil sorceror, Zharradan Marr! War
— between two forces well-matched for evil — is soon to ensure .. ,
Will Balthus Dire’s chaotics or Zharradan Marr's undead prove vic-
torious? The answer is here, in the first Fighting Fantasy novel

DEMONSTEALER
Marc Gascoigne

It started with a burglary. Borne aloft on the back of an immense
bat, a sinister thief breaks into the tower of the sorcerer Yaztromo
Guided by long-dead voices, he manages to make off with an
ancient scroll whose secrets could speil doom and destruction for all
Allansiat

Chadda Darkmane is soon on the trail of the thief. But as the quest
grows ever longer, his nagging doubts about the power of sorcery
tum into nightmares. The trail leads far beyond northem Allansia, to
the Pirate Coast and the twisting alleyways of Rimon, where
Darkmane’s nightmares become flesh! For the thief has used the
ancient scroll to surumon others to help him in his sorcerous task,
Demons who are not bound by the constraints of earthly forms —
wha feast on the human spirit

A few brave companions accompany Darkmane, but will they be
enough — and in time — to stop the thief from unlocking the final
secret of Yaztromo’s scroll? Demonstealer, the second Fighting
Fantasy novel in a series that began with The Trolltooth Wars, holds
all the answers

Steve Jackson’s
SORCERY

1. The Shamufantr Hills

Your search for the legendary Crown of Kings take you to the
Shamutanti Hills. Alive with evil creatures, lawless wanderers and
bloodthirsty monsters, the land is riddled with tricks and traps wait-
ing for the unwary traveller. Will you be able to cross the hills
safely and proceed to the second part of the adventure — or will you
perish in the atternpt?

2 Kharé — Cityport of Traps
As a warrior relying on force of arms, or a wizard trained in magic,
you must brave the terror of a city built to trap the unwary. You
will need all your wits about you to survive the unimaginable hor-
rors ahead and to make sense of the clues which may lead to your
success — or to your doom!

3. The Seven Serpents

Seven deadly and magical serpents speed ahead of you to warn the
evil Archmage of your coming. Will you be able to catch them
before they get there?

A. The Croton of Kings

At the end of your long trek, you face the unknown terrors of the
Mamang Fortress, Hidden inside the keep is the Crown of Kings —
the ultimate goal of the Sorcery! epic But beware! For if you have
not defeated the Seven Serpents your arrival has been antici-
pated .

Complete with all the magical spells you will need, each book can
be played either on its awn or as part of the whole epic,

More Fighting Fantasy

THE TROLLTOOTH WARS
Steve Jackson

It started with an ambush When Balthus Dire’s bloodlusting Hill
Goblins mount their raid on the Strongarm caravan, litle do they
realize what dramatic consequences their actions will have For that
caravan carries Cunnelwort, a mystical herb from Eastern Allansia,
destined for none other than the evil sorceror, Zharradan Marr! War
— between two forces well-matched for evil — is soon to ensure . -.
Will Balthus Dire’s chaotics or Zharradan Marr's undead prove vic-
torious? The answer is here, in the first Fighting Fantasy novel

DEMONSTEALER
Marc Gascoigne

It started with a burglary. Borne aloft on the back of an immense
bat, a sinister thief breaks into the tower of the sorcerer Yaztromo
Guided by long-dead voices, he manages to make off with an
ancient scroll whose secrets could spell doom and destruction for all!

Allansia!

Chadda Darkmane is soon on the trail of the thief. But as the quest
grows ever longer, his nagging doubts about the power of sorcery
tum into mghtmares. The trail leads far beyond northern Allansia, to
the Pirate Coast and the twisting alleyways of Rimon, where
Darkmane’s nightmares become flesh! For the thief has used the
ancient scroll to summon others to help him in his sorcerous task,
Demons who are not bound by the constraints of earthly forms —
who feast on the human spirit.

A few brave companions accompany Darkmane, but will they be
enough — and in time — to stop the thief from unlocking the final
secret of Yaztromo’s scroll? Demonstealer, the second Fighting
Fantasy novel in a series that began with The Trafltooth Wars, holds
all the answers
62-63

62

You charge into the midst of the glass flowers, striking
to the right and left of you as you run, The air is filled
with the noise of splintering glass and the wailing
shrieks released by the flowers as they are cut down
On all sides of you there are many more blooms that
survive, squirting jets of acid from within their bell-
shaped clusters of petals. However, the black glass of
Ophidian armour is unaffected by the corrosive fluid
and barely a drop penetrates between the plates to
sting your flesh. You emerge unscathed on the other
side of the flower bed. Now there is nothing to stop
you making for the Vitreous Citadel. Turn to 336.

63
You pull the glowing sphere from your backpack and
cup it in your hands. Instantly you are mesmerized by
the myriad visions, so tiny and yet so detailed, that
swarm within the Aleph. The longer you gaze, the
more you can see: strange creatures, alien peoples,
towns, continents, planets, swirling stars. You feel your-

64-65

self being enveloped by the Aleph and transported
within it. Roll one die. If you roll an even number, turn
to 11§; if you roll an odd number, turn to 126.

64

Just as the Black Shadow is about to drop on to you,
your sword-blade arcs through the air and splits the
creature’s skull. You press yourself back against the
stone wall and watch the monster’s body flutter down
the side of the tower like a torn rag. Restore 1 point of
tuck. Treading carefully on the worn steps, you
continue upwards. Turn to 318

65

Semeion stares in amazement at the teeming visions in
she glowing sphere. ‘It is the Aleph!’ he whispers after a
.ong silence. ‘I have never known whether it was real or
merely a legend. But this is undeniably it. It is beyond
my powers to explain. It is, quite simply, everything —
the entire Macrocosmos in this small ball. 1 have heard
that its bearer can move into it and thus travel between
worlds — but of course you know this. You carry a
great burden, my friend.’ You explain how you came
oy the Aleph: that the previous bearer entrusted it to
you; that with his dying breath he mentioned the name
of Globus, whom you take to be the Aleph’s owner;
that the Spectral Stalkers are pursuing you. If you have
collected some objects during your travels, you can ask
Semeion if any of them have any special meaning —
cum to 235. Alternatively, you can ask instead for
mformation about Globus ~ turn to 308.

