iE FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS
Over 12 million copies sold worldwide!

H ea pil

| of your northern hame is Ser a blazing
Seis Of deuaht th cote iytns anes | through
winter sk des in a maelstrom si es vi

Ea / " joLIVINGSTONE

ge fe) PRESENT

iv sdeseellicr Aftarmat 0
rtst ei ad co eb
| pee cial av dice, a pencil and an eraser

oS iets IU decide which routes to take,
which dangers to risk and which foes to fight.
Dare YOU rae up the challenge?

 Covnr illtearan Iyy Terry aha

ISON D~-14-70008) #

Wil

Puffin Books

TOWER OF DESTRUCTION

in the snowy northem wilderness of Allansia life is
hard, and so are the people. While you are on an
expedition, the calm of your home village is shattered
by a blazing sphere of death which comes screaming
down through wintry skies in a maelstrom of fire and
lightning. to rain destruction upon your village. You
return: to find only ashes and bodies.

Thirsting for justice, you must set out on the trail of
the bizarre device. But where did it come from, who
made it — and can it be stopped? YOU must see your
quest through to its astonishing conclusion to find the
answers to all these questions. But beware — the sphere
is the key to a far greater danger that threatens all
Allansia!

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you need to
embark on this remarkable adventure, which comes
complete with its elaborate combat system and a score
sheet to record your progress.

Many fearsome dangers lie ahead and success is by no
means certain. Powerful adversaries are ranged against
you, enemies who will stop at nothing to foil you in
your quest. It’s up to YOU to decide which route to
follow, which dangers to risk and which foes to fight.
Dare you take up the challenge?
Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks

1 THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP
MOUNTAIN
z THECITADEL OF CHAOS
3 THE FOREST OF DOOM
4, STARSHIP TRAVELLER
5 CITY OF THIEVES
6 DEATHTRAP DUNGEON
7 ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING
8 SCORPION SWAMP
¢. CAVERNS OF THE SNOW WITCH
10, HOUSE OF HELL
1x TALISMAN OF DEATH
12 SPACE ASSASSIN
13 FREEWAY FIGHTER
14 TEMPLE OF TERROR
a5 THE RINGS OF KETHER
16 SEAS OF BLOOD
iz APPOINTMENT WITH FEAR
1B REBEL PLANET
19 DEMONS OF THE DEEP
20. SWORD OF THE SAMURAI
21 TRIAL OF CHAMPIONS
22 ROBOT COMMANDO
23 MASKS OF MAYHEM

Steve Jackson's SORCERY!
a THE SHAMUTANTI HILLS
2 KHARE - CITYPORT OF TRAPS

24 CREATURE OF HAVOC

25 BENEATH NIGHTMARE CASTLE

26 CRYPT OF THE SORCERER

27. STAR STRIDER

28, PHANTOMS OF FEAR

29 MIDNIGHT ROGUE

30. CHASMS OF MALICE

32. BATTLEBLADE WARRIOR

32- SLAVES OF THE ABYSS

33 SKY LORD

34 STEALER OF SOULS

35 DAGGERS OF DARKNESS

36 ARMIES OF DEATH

37 PORTAL OF EVIL

36 VAULT OF THE VAMPIRE

39. FANGS OF FURY

40. DEAD OF NIGHT

41 MASTER OF CHAOS

42 BLACK VEIN PROPHECY

43 THE KEEP OF THE LICH-LORD

44 LEGEND OF THE SHADOW
WARRIORS

45 SPECTRAL STALKERS

45. TOWER OF DESTRUCTION

3 THE SEVEN SERPENTS
4 THE CROWN OF KINGS

FIGHTING FANTASY -— The Introductory Role-Playing Game
THE RIDDLING REAVER -— Four thrilling adventures

The Advanced Fighting Fantasy Syslem

DUNGEONEER -— An Intreduction te Advanced Fighting Fantasy
BLACKSANDI — More Advanced Fighting Fantasy
‘OUT OF THE PIT — Fighting Fantasy Monsters

TITAN — The Fighting Fantasy orld

The Fighting Fantasy Novels

THE TROLLTOOTH WARS — Chaos Invades Allansia
DEMONSTEALER — Chadda Darkmane Retums

Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone
present

Tower of

Destruction

Keith Martin

Illustrated by Pete Knifton

Puffin Books

PUFFIN BOOKS

Published by the Penguin Group
Penguin Books Ltd, 27 Wrights Lane, London w8 51z, England
Penguin Books USA Inc, 375 Hudson Street, New York, New York 10014, USA
Penguin Books Australia Ltd, Ringwood, Victoria, Australia
Pengun Books Canada Ltd, 10 Alcorn Avenue, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M4¥ 382
Penguin Books (NZ) Ltd, 182-190 Wairau Road, Auckland to, New Zealand

Penguin Books Ltd, Registered Offices: Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England

First published rog1
13579 10664 2

Concept copyright © Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone, 1991
Text copyright © Keith Martin, 1991
Illustrations copyright €} Pete Knifton, 1992
Map copyright © Leo Hartas, 1991
All nghts reserved

The moral right of the author has been asserted

Printed in England by Clays Ltd, St Ives ple
Filmset in Monophoto Palatino

Except in the United States of Amenca, this book is sold subject
to the condition that it shall not, by way of trade or otherwise, be lent,
re-sold_ hired out, or otherwise circulated without the publisher's
prior consent :n any form of binding or cover other than that in
which it is published and without a simular condition including this
condition bemg imposed on the subsequent purchaser

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION
7

ADVENTURE SHEET
18-19

BACKGROUND
20

TOWER OF DESTRUCTION
23
INTRODUCTION

Before embarking on this adventure, you must first find out
what your strengths and weaknesses are. You use dice to
discover your initial skILL, STAMINA and LUCK scores. On
pages 18-109 there is an Adventure Sheet which you may use
to record the details of your adventure, On it you will find
boxes where you can write down your SKILL, STAMINA and
LUCK scores,

You are advised either to write your scores on the Adventure
Sheet in pencil or to make photocopies of the page for use
in future attempts to complete this adventure.

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one dice. Add 6 to this number and enter the total in
the sk1LL box on the Adventure Sheet (the total will be
between 7 and 12). This is your Inifial sxtut score

Roil both dice. Add 12 to the number rolled and enter this
total in the STAMINA box on the Adventure Sheef (the total
will be between 14 and 24). This is your Initial sTAMINA
score

Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter the total in
the tuck box on the Adventure Sheet (the total will be
between 7 and 12). This is your Initial tuck score.

For reasons that will be explained below, skILL, STAMINA

and Luck scores change constantly during the adventure.
You must keep an accurate record of these scores and of
the changes to them: for this reason you are advised either
to write small in the boxes or to keep an eraser handy. But
never rub out your Initial scores. Although you may be
awarded additional skit, STAMINA and Luck points, these
additions cannot raise any score above its Iniial figure,
except on rare occasions when you will be instructed
accordingly in a particular paragraph.

Your skiLi score reflects, your swordsmanship and overall
fighting expertise; the higher the better. Your sTAMINA
score reflects your general constitution, your will to survive,
your determination and physical fitness, and your ability to
take blows in battle; the higher your sTAMINA score, the
longer you will be able to survive. Your Luck score
indicates how naturally lucky a person you are. Luck, and
magic, are facts of life in the exciting fantasy world you are
about to explore.

Magic

During your adventure you may come across some magic
items, although at first you may not realize that they are
magica] or even know what they can do! Such items may
give you the ability to cast a magic spell or create a
magical effect; if you find such an object, you will be
instructed in its use in the relevant paragraph. To begin
with, however, you are not a mage but a brave warrior, and
you must overcome your enemies by your wits and courage
and by your prowess with your sword!

Battles

You will often find yourself reading paragraphs in the book
which instruct you to fight a creature of some sort. An
option to flee may be given, but if not — or if you choose
to attack the creature anyway — you must resolve the battle
as described below

First record your opponent's SKILL and STAMINA Scores in
the first empty Monster Encounter Box on your Adventure
Sheet. The scores for each creature are given every time
you encounter one. The sequence for combat is then:

1. Roll two dice for the opponent. Add its sxitt score, This
total is the creature’s Attack Strength.

z. Roll] two dice for yourself, Add your own SKILL score to
the number rolled. This total is your Attack Strength.

3. If your Attack Strength is higher than that of your
opponent, you have wounded it; proceed to step 4. If
your opponent’s Attack Strength is higher than yours, it
has wounded you; proceed to step 5. If both Attack
Strengths are the same, you have managed to avoid each
other’s blows; start the next Attack Round from step 1,
above.

4. If you have wounded your opponent: subtract 2 points
from its STAMINA Score, (You may use your LUCK here
to do additional damage — see below.) Proceed to step 6.

5. Your opponent has wounded you; subtract 2 points from
your Own STAMINA score. (Again, you may use your
LUCK here, this time to reduce the damage your opponent
does to you — see below.) Proceed to step 6.

6. Make the appropriate change to the sTAMINA score of
either your opponent or yourself on the Adventure Sheet
(and to your Lucx score if you used Luck — see below)

7. Begin the next Attack Round (repeat steps 1—6). The
sequence continues until the sTAMINA of either you or
your opponent has been reduced to zero (death).

Fighting More Than One Creature

If you come across more‘than one opponent in any encoun-
ter, the instructions in the relevant paragraph will tell you
how to handle the battle Sometimes you will have to fight
them all together; sometimes you will be able to tackle
them one after the other

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either in battles or
when you find yourself in a situation when you could be
either Lucky or Unlucky (details of these are given in the
relevant paragraphs), you may call on your Luck to make
the outcome more favourable to you. But beware! Using
LUCK is a risky business and, if you are Unlucky, the result
could be unfortunate or even disastrous!

The procedure for using your Luck is as follows: roll two dice.
If the number rolled is less than or equal to your current Luck
score, you have been Lucky and the result will go in your
favour. If the number rolled is higher than your current Luck
score, you have been Unlucky and you will be penalized.

This procedure is known as Testing your Luck. Each time you

1a

Test your Luck, you must deduct 1 point from your current
LUCK score, whether the outcome is successful or unsuccess-
ful! You will soon come to realize that, the more you rely
on your Luck, the more risky this will become.

If things go so badly that your Luck is reduced to 1 or less,
you will automatically be Unlucky whenever you are forced
to Test your Luck. So don’t start out by squandering your
supply of Luck frivolously

Lising Luck in Battles

In certain paragraphs of the book you will be instructed to
Test your Luck; you will then be told the consequences of
your being Lucky or Unlucky, However, during a battle
you always have the option of using your Luck, either to
inflict a more serious wound on a creature you have just
wounded or to reduce the effects of a wound that the
creature has just inflicted on you.

If you have just wounded an opponent you are fighting,
you may Test your Luck as described above, If you are
Lucky, you have inflicted a severe wound and may deduct
2 extra points from your opponent's STAMINA score (so
that your blow reduces its sTAMINA by 4 points, rather
than the usual 2 points). However, if you are Unlucky, the
wound was a mere graze and you must restore 1 point to
your opponent’s STAMINA score {instead of your blow
causing the usual 2 points of damage to its sTAMINA, it is
reduced to only 1 point).

If your opponent has just wounded you, you may Test your
Luck to try to minimize this wound, If you are Lucky, you
have managed to avoid the full impact of the blow and

il

I

may restore z point to your own STAMINA (instead of your
opponent’s blow causing 2 points of damage to your
STAMINA, it is reduced to only 1 point), But if you are
Unlucky, then you have taken a more serious blow, and
you must deduct 1 ezfra STAMINA point (so that your
opponent's blow causes damage worth 3 sTAMINA points
rather than the usual 2 points)

Honour

There is also a box on your Adventure Sheet for recording
HONOUR. Your HONOUR is your sense of decency, fairness,
compassion and justice, and it has a further meaning of
special importance to this adventure: respect for the dead
Your Initial HONOUR score is 6, so you do not need to roll
any dice to find this out but you can simply record this
score in the box on the Adventure Sheet. Honour will be
affected by the nature of the deeds you both perform and
avoid performing during your adventure

Restoring Skill, Stamina, Luck and Honour

Skill

Your skiLt score will not change much during your adven-
ture. Occasionally, a paragraph may instruct you to increase
or decrease your sxitt score. A Magic Weapon may
increase your SKILL ~ but remember that you can use only
one weapon at a time! You cannot claim two sKILL bonuses
for carrying two Magic Swords. Your sKILL score cannot
exceed its Initial score unless you are specifically instructed
to the contrary,

12

Stamina and Provisions
Your STAMINA score will go up and down a Jot during
your adventure as you fight enemies and undertake arduous
tasks. As you near your goal, your STAMINA score may
drop dangerously low and battles may become particularly
risky, so be careful!

Your backpack contains enough Provisions for ten meals.
You may rest and eat at any time except when fighting, but
you may eat only one meal at a time. Eating a meal restores
up to 4 STAMINA points, When you eat a meal, add 4
points to your current sTAMINA score (making sure that the
new total does not exceed the Initial score of your STAMINA)
and deduct z point from your Provisions on your Adventure
Sheet. A separate Provisions Remaining box is included on
the Adventure Sheet for recording details of Provisions.
Remember that you have a long way to go, so use your
Provisions wisely! Remember also that your STAMINA score
may never exceed its Initial value unless a paragraph specifi-
cally instrucis you otherwise.

There will be times during your adventure when you will
be told that you must eat a meal. When you are told to do
this, you must deduct 1 of your Provisions on your Adven-
ture Sheet, but you do not regain any lost sTAMINA for
doing this. If you are told that you have to eat a meal but
you don’t have any Provisions left, you must deduct 2
points from your current sTAMINA score on the Adventure

Sheet

During your adventure, however, you should be able to
acquire at least a few extra Provisions to add to the store
you begin with; these will enable you to maintain your

13

eeeeeEeEeEeEeEeeeerer_ ee

STAMINA throughout the adventure. However, you cannot
carry more than ten Provisions at any time!

Luck

Your Luck score will also change during the adventure as
you Test your Luck Additions to your tucx score may also
be awarded when you have been especially fortunate:
likewise, you may be told to reduce your LUCK score when
you have made an important mistake: details of such events
are given in the appropriate paragraphs of the book, Remem-
ber that, as with sxitt and sTAMINA scores, your LUCK
may never exceed its Initial value unless you are specifically
told to the contrary.

Honour

Your HONOUR score will change during the adventure as
you perform honourable acts, or refrain from selfish and
dishonourable ones. There are certain advantages to having
a high Honour score, as you will discover during your
adventure. However, there are occasions when you may
have to behave selfishly in order to gain some important
tem or clue! You will have to tread a fine line between
being overly grasping and thus losing Honour, and failing
to take what you need on key occasions.

Equipment

You will start your adventure with a bare minimum of
equipment, but you should find other items during your
travels. You are armed with a sword and protected by-a
shield and a set of leather armour, trimmed and padded
with furs — where you are going you will need the protec-

14

Ss Se

tion the fur offers against the cold! You have a backpack to
hold your Provisions and any treasures at other items you
may find; in it you carry a thick fur blanket which you will
need to keep out the cold at night You also carry a lantern
to light your way when necessary.

You may acquire a crossbow and some crossbow bally
during your travels. If you do, you must keep a recond of
how many crossbow bolts you fire from it and how many
you have left. When you have no bolts left to fire, the
crossbow is useless as a weapon unless and until you find
more bolts.

Time

In the first pert of this adventure — findings the Ice Palace — it
is vital that you don’t take too long getting there. On the
Adventure Sheet you will find « Time Elapsed box, and here
you must record the number of days that pass between the
start of the adventure and your arriving at the Palace, Each
time you stop for the night to sleep. 1 day has elapsed, so
all you have to do is to add a further day to the total time
tlapsed whenever you stop to sleep, Fortunately for you,
hime is important only during this first part of the adventure!

Hints on Play

Your journey will be perilous, and you may well fail on
your first attempt. Make notes and draw a map as you
explore — this map will prove invaluable in later forays into
this adventure, and it will enable you to progress more
rapidly to unexplored sections later on.

15

Not all areas contain treasure or useful information; many
contain traps and unfriendly creatures — and you will
doubtless fall foul of them. You may take many a wrong
tuming during your quest and, while you may indeed
eventually reach your ultimate destination, it is by no
means certain that you will find what you are searching for.

While you need to make haste during the first part of the
adventure, you will certainly overlook help and assistance if
you rush ahead too fast. You have to decide carefully when
you can afford to tarry and when you must press on as fast
as you can!

Be very wary about Testing your Luck unless a paragraph
tells you that you must do this! Generally, when it comes
to fights, you should Test your Luck only to keep yourself
alive when an opponent's blow would otherwise kill you
(so far as reducing your STAMINA loss from your opponent's
blows is concerned). Don’t Test your Luck in order to try to
do extra damage to your enemy unless this is really
necessary! LUCK points are precious!

You will quickly realize that paragraphs make no sense if
read in numerical order. It is essential that you read only
the paragraphs you are instructed to go to, Reading other
paragraphs lessens the excitement and surprise while you
are playing the adventure.

The only certain way to success involves minimizing risk;
any player, no matter how weak his or her initial dice-rolls,
should be able to struggle through and achieve ultimate

success and glory

May the luck of the gods go with you on the adventure
ahead!

:

ADVENTURE SHEET

ENCOUNTER BOXES

SKILL

Initial Skitl=

STAMINA

Initial Stamtita=

LUCK

Initial Luck=

HONOUR TIME ELAPSED ENEMY
ENCOUNTER
EQUIPMENT LIST POSSESSIONS

PROVISIONS REMAINING

Skitl= Skill= Skill=
Stattina= Stamina= Stamina=
Skill= Skitl= Skill=
Stamina= Stamina= Stamina=
Skill= Skills Skill=
Stamina= Stamtina= Stamina=
Skill= Skili= Skitl=
Stamina= Staimina= Stamina=

BACKGROUND

It has been a long, hard trek from market in the city of
Zengis, but you are almost home now. Within the hour
you should be back at the family hearth, a tankard of warm
mead in your hand and your furred leathers hanging in the
comer of the hut. Doubtless your friends will come around
to talk of their exploits while hunting when you were away
at the market, and they will probably mock you gently for
not having gone hunting with them. Well, someone had to
haggle to get a good price for the furs and, as the chieftain
pointed out, it might as well be someone with a few brains
and a little sense. So you had gat the job,

Perhaps, you imagine, life would be easier in one of the
southern lands of Allansia you have heard of: wicked Port
Blacksand, to the south and west; the endless Flatlands with
their proud, wild horses and prouder riders; even Arantis,
so far away, with its Overpriest and teeming pirate ships.
Anywhere might be better than this bitingly cold region
where you have spent your life, in the shadow of the
[cefinger Mountains. Perhaps, when the next caravan sets
out from Zengis to the Flatlands, you may find a merchant
who needs a strong and honest bodyguard. But that’s a
fantasy, and what is real now is the cold...

Except that now it isn’t as cold as it seemed to be a minute
ago. It should be, because the sky is darkening as dusk
descends, so it should strike chill indeed, But why is the sky
darkening? You realize that it is not long since the watery

20

autumnal sun was at its zenith! And what is the horrible
screeching and booming sound coming out of the sky
towards you?

You spin round and face the direction from which the ever
louder sound is coming — and throw yourself down to the
ground in abject terror. With a great wailing like a thousand
screaming demons, the black sphere of rock shoots past
overhead, fire and smoke trailing in its wake. A chunk of
molten rock plummets and crashes into the ground close to
you, hissing and spitting as it embeds itself in snow and
ice-hardened ground. You get up, shake the snow off your
clothes and run forward to the head of the valley, Peering
down, you see that the valley is shrouded in smoke, and
you can make out tongues of flame rising from the place
where you know your home is. You nish on down to find
out what terrible fate has befallen your home and
People...

Now turn to paragraph 1.

m Miho ens en

I

You gasp for breath as you run, flat out, to your home;
even as you race down the snow-covered slope, you can
hear the screams and wails of the dying. Thick, black,
reeking smoke is mercifully beginning to disperse, only to
reveal burned corpses and still alive, but injured, villagers.
Huts and cabins are either aflame or completely flattened
by the passage of the Sphere. To your horror, you find
your mother and father, dead, in the ruins of their home.
You rage with fury and swear an oath to track the progress
of the killing Sphere and find out what has brought this
terrible carnage upon your people! What will you do now?
Will you:

Leave and follow the trail of the Sphere

at once? Turn to 111
Look around for things that will be of

help to you on your trek after the

Sphere? Turn to 41
Look for the village wise man? Turn to 366
Do what you can to help the injured? Tur to 268

2

The workshops of the Ice Elves form a warren of homes,
studios, small towers and follies in unbounded variety, Most
have fantastic or beautiful decorations sculpted into the ice,
carved balconies with railings as slender as gossamer threads,
plaques and arabesques and rosettes ... these homes and
workplaces are still strangely lovely, so many years after
their occupants perished, Most are empty and bare but,
looking through frosty windows, you can see three possible
exceptions. Which one will you explore first? Will it be:

3-§
An armourer’s workshop? Tum to 30
A jeweller’s workshop? Turn to 218
A weaponmaker’s workshop? Turn to 342

3
You stand at the middle of the crossroads, Which part of

the crypts which you haven't yet visited will you visit
now? Will you go:

Down the ice steps? Turn to 64

Down the left-hand passage? Turn to 148

Down the right-hand passage? Tum to 88

Up and out of the Ice Crypts? Tum to 309
4

Approaching the gatehouse, you force the huge ice gates
slightly apart, when you spot a figure on top of the
gatehouse, and you duck just as a crossbow bolt whizzes
past your head. If you have a crossbow and bolts and you
wish to fire back, Furn to 160. If you want to draw your
sword and try to get closer to the archer, turn to 292,

5
You stand before the huge, white ice doors of the grand Ice

Cathedral. Etched into them is a bird with wings out-
stretched, flying up to the skies, Do you have an Ice Bird
which sings? If you do, turn to the paragraph with the same
number as the number of arcs of colour the bird has in its
wings. If you don’t have the Ice Bird, you cannot enter the
Cathedral; the massive doors weigh many tonnes and you
cannot hope to open them. Make a note of this paragraph
number: if you do find an Ice Bird which sings, you will be

6-7

able to return here and open the doors by turning to this
paragraph. For now, you must find somewhere else to
search if you cannot enter here; turn to 23

G
Do you have an Ice Sword? If you have, turn to 2g. If you
haven’t, turn to 43,

7
Cobrun the merchant is a bit of a swindler, and a whining

little fellow, but eventually you pin him down to the
following prices. If you want to buy a potion for him, turn
to 146 to check the effects of the potion.

5 Gold Pieces
5 Gold Pieces
6 Gold pieces

Potion of Stamina
Potion of Skill
Potion of Luck

Other items you could buy are:

Provisions 2 meals for 1 Gold Piece
Crowbar 1 Gold Piece

Crossbow and 10 bolts 4 Gold Pieces

Heavy mace 4 Gold Pieces

Bag of salt 1 Gold Piece

Climbing gear 3 Gold Pieces

The climbing gear consists of arope, some ice picks, and asmall
hammer. If you buy a crossbow, you must keep track of how
many bolts you use and how many you have left. You must
pay for everything here, and no cheating! Items bought can be
added to your Possessions, and money spent must be
deducted from your Treasure. When you have finished making
your purchases, you can either reconsider selling something to
Cobrun (turn to 369) or settle down to sleep (hun to 280).

8—11

8
Finish your fight with the Man-Orc. Each Attack Round,
the wizard will fire another dart and you will lose another 2
points from your sTAMINA You can’t get at the wizard
while the Man-Orc lives. If you manage to defeat the Man-
Orc, turn to 199,

9
You manage to prevent the Dark EIf from casting a spell to

aid himself. Make a note that you have reduced his
STAMINA by 2 points. Now the Dark EIf is flying down to
attack you with his dagger, so tum to 292: you may subtract
1 point from his sxitz score as given in that paragraph
_because you have ruined his sxitt-enhancing spell!

10
The Ice Golem isn’t fooled as you mince up to it and say
something in a squeaky voice. It hits you with its spear
and, if Golems could look contemptuous, this one just did.
Deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA. You are forced to
fight; turn to 333.

Il

You look at the massive ice organ. You have no idea how
to play it, of course; on closer investigation, however, you
notice that the angel is holding a tablet of ice which has
some music on it. The form of this puzzles you — you know
enough about music to see that this isn’t regular musical
notation and, even though Elves do have some strange
ideas about music, this seems peculiar to you Can you
puzzle out some deeper meaning to it?

i2

4

-
He

-

When you are ready to do something else here, will you:

Take the Ice Keys, if you don’t have

thern? Turn to 83
Look over the tombs, if you haven't
done so already? Turn to ror
Leave here and search elsewhere in the
Ice Palace? Tum to 23
12

You edge round towards a circular chamber beyond the
darkness, and you can see dimly flashing lights in that
chamber. However, you can’t make out any detail because
the entrance is barred by a thick mat of sticky webs, some
two metres deep, which seem to envelop the room beyond.
From the lights and humming sound coming from that
chamber, you guess that you will have to get into it, but
there doesn’t seem to be any other way in except through
the webs. If you want to try to use magic to get past the
webs, turn to gg. If you just want to wade in and force
your way through, turn to 18.

13-14

13
Now the door is open you can see and smell your enemy: a
filthy, diseased thing, reeking of bumt flesh and brimstone,
fluid oozing from reddened welts on its torso. A misty
coating of blue foetid smoke surrounds its body, choking
and foul. The Smoke Demon is not one of the strongest of
demonkind, but it may still be a match for you!

You must temporarily deduct 1 point from your SKILL
when fighting the Smoke Demon because of the effect the
smoke has on you; this is only temporary, and you don't
suffer any permanent SKILL loss

SMOKE DEMON SKILL 9 STAMINA 12

If you win, you hear a choking, guttural sound coming
from the room beyond. Another monster? You can go in
and investigate (turn to 233), or you can be cautious and
leave this place, finding a more wholesome place to sleep at
the end of the day (turn to 154)

14

You suddenly find yourself back on the floor below the
gallery; hanging in the air is a small item of jewellery that
you can’t make out properly from here. Below it is a
monolith of ice, which has appeared in the room, on which
eight clock-faces are etched. The first seven have a hand
chiselled on them, but the eighth is bare. The first seven
run in the following sequence:

ae. Sea

15

SIGIETS
OOVO

You have to work out the eighth and final symbol which
would compiete the sequence correctly. ‘I do not help those
without wits and skill,” Mealin's voice echoes one last time.

If you solve the puzzle, you will know which position on
the clock-face the hand should be pointing to, and how
many arrow-heads there will be on the hand Multiply
these two numbers together, and then tum to the paragraph
with that number, If you can’t solve the puzzle, and want
to give up, turn to 300. If you have a Potion of Flying and
want to use that to get to the jewellery, turn to 238.

15

You stand in a large, dimly lit basement chamber. There are
some light beams here, and nothing else — until, starting
you, 4 tiny creature apparently made of ice pops up out of
the foor and grabs something you are carrying! The little
thing only comes up to your knee and looks like a wizened
gnome or gremlin. But the pest has stolen one of your
Possessions! You take a swing at the Ice Mite as it scuttles
off into the shadows. Roll two dice for each of you and add
yOur SKILL scores to find your Attack Strengths (the Ice
Mite has a sit of 8), If you have the higher Attack
Strength, tum to arr, If the Ice Mite has the higher Attack
Strength, turn to rog.

16-18

16
From your vantage point, you can see a Frost Giant
skulking behind some rocks down below. If you want to go
back down to the valley and meet the Giant, tum to 40. If
you prefer to press on along the high path, turn to 1 32.

a7

As you duck and run past him, the old Elf-guardiun fires a
number of small, glowing, pearly.white spheres at you with
his wand. These spheres explode on you, inflicting unpleas-
ant magical damage. Roll one die and add 1: this is the
number of points of staMiNA you must lose. But the
crossroads is out of the wand’s range and the Elf-guardian
moves far too slowly to catch up with you (if you're still
alive!), At the crossroads, will you take:

Ice steps directly ahead, leading down? Tum to 64

The path to your left? Tum to 148

The path to your right? Tum to 189
18

Hidden very cleverly in one of the walls is a secret sliding
panel, Do you want to:

Open this secret door? Turn to 365
Retur to the junction and take the
right-hand turning? Tum to 118

Return to the junction and follow the
passage straight ahead of you? Turn to 279

1g~22

19
You rush down the passage, only to see that the steps
leading back opposite the Golem room are obstructed by
falling stone and you can’t go that way. You've lost more
precious time, and a chunk of wall comes away and crashes
into your side. Deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA. You
will have to backtrack and take the other passage; turn to 38

20
Too late, you remember that Polar Worms are almost
completely blind and hunt by smell, so hiding behind a
snowdrift isn’t likely to work! The ravenous monster strikes
at your back and you must deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA. You will have to fight; turn to 382.

21
Eventually you place the last frail shrouded body in its
sarcophagus, There is a sudden, deeply aching sigh all
around in the vastness of the vault, and you feel a sudden
chill on your forehead, Putting your hand to your face, you
tee! a mark on your forehead which wasn’t there before — a
star-shape, as you see by gazing into a shard of reflective
ice. ft doesn’t hurt, but you’re a little troubled by it never-
theless. Now you return to the crossroads, so turn to 3.

22
You take your Potion of Flying and rise into the air — not
very gracefully, but then you haven’t done this very oftent
Once in the air, it is a simple matter for you to unhook the
incense-burner from its chain. You take it with you, so add
it to your list of Possessions. Then you glide out and down
the stairs before your Potion runs out. Tum to 57

23

23

The Ice Palace is huge, a majestic structure composed in a
myriad forms and colours of ice Looking around as you
stand before the gatehouse, to your right is a tower with a
heraldic shield above its entrance: the Tower of Shielding.
To your left is a tower covered on all surfaces with
beautiful, multicoloured icicles: the Tower of Rainbow Ice.
In the distance, to your left, is a Tower of Black Ice, and
opposite is a tower which looks only half real, impossibly
light and delicate: the Tower of Airy Light, Directly oppo-
site you, in the distance, is a huge central tower, the Great
Tower. All the towers have ice doors at their bases but no
other obvious portals, Within the ice walls and towers
surrounding the Palace are a number of buildings. There are
homes, workshops, stores and warehouses, varied and splen-
did in design; dominating them stands the glory of the
domed Ice Cathedral with its silent, sealed ice doors

You can only enter each location once in your sojourn here,
unless the text specifically states otherwise, $0 you must

24

keep a careful record of where you have been within the Ice
Palace. If you don’t find what you're looking for the first
time, a return visit won't help. However, if you try to enter
a location and for some reason cannot do so (you have no
keys and it is locked, for example), you may return if you
find the correct method of entry. So, now, will you go to:

The Tower of Shielding? Turn to 84
The Ice Cathedral? Turn to 5
The Tower of Black Ice? Tum to 287
The Tower of Airy Light? Tum to 381
The Tower of Rainbow Ice? Turn to 320
The Great Tower? Turn to 278
The workshops? Turn to 2
The stores? Turn to 163
The homes? Tum to 371

24

Tassaskil takes the Ice Sword and passes his hand along the
blade. Sparks of magical light crackle and fly around his
fingers as he does this, and the hilt and pommel come alive
with a deep, sky-blue light inside the very structure of the
ice, He hands it to you: it is as hard as steel, the edge
keener than any sword of metal. The ice is cool to your
grip, but not chilling, and it does not melt or slip in your
hand. This is a fabulous weapon, one which exceeds your
wildest dreams. It adds a bonus of 2 to your ski1Lt when
you use it, and this bonus does allow you to exceed your
Initial sxitt (for example, skitt 13 or 14 is possible with
this sword if your Initial ski. is 11 or 12).

‘There is a little magic left,’ Tassaskil says with a real effort
‘l can put a minor enchantment into the weapon to help

25-26

against a wizard, or against a Demon, if you prefer.’ What
will you ask for?

Ask for help against a wizard? Turn to 136
Ask for help against a Demon? Turn to 173
Thank Tassaski] for his help, ask for no

more, and leave? Tum to 94

25
Unfortunately, you don’t manage to evade the keen hearing
of the guards in the open room as you tip-toe past. Turn to

376.

26

The passageway slopes slightly downwards and then opens
into a huge gallery. You look down at a massive circle of
cherry-red, bumingly hot floating spheres of rock which are
hanging in mid-air below you. Beneath them are stone
chutes and vents, and you guess that somehow these rocks
provide the power for the Sphere’s devastating fiery trial.
There’s no way you can possibly deal with these: some-
where else there must be a control which you could tamper
with and so destroy the Sphere. Unfortunately, your tarry-
img here has alerted a guardian, as you see from the pillar of
fire roaring through the air to attack you — a Fire Elemental!

Do you have a ring? If you do, you know the name of the
person who possessed it before you. Convert the letters of
his name into number values (using the code A= 1, B=2,
C=3..,Z=26) and add them together. Then turn to the
paragraph with the same number as that total. If you don’t
have such a ring, turn to 194.

LN fab 7 wil re 27-28

wi
i l a The landscape here is still hilly, but in the distance a plateau
~ Vi / is clearly visible ahead of you. The wind is whirling little
: flurries of snow about The sky is as blue and as clear as
you have ever seen in your life, and the rays of the winter
sun, lacking warmth, reflect from the snow and ice and half
blind you. This may be why you don’t see the Skyriders
until the flapping of their mounts’ wings are close by.
You look around, startled, to see two barbarians of a
kind you don’t know clambering down from what look
like large, thick-haired Pegasi to see who is entering their
land. They say they are Skyriders of the Frostwind tribe:
they are carrying large axes and knives and they look
strong and fierce. You don’t want to fight such powerful
warriors unless you have to! Do you have a bronze medal-
lion? If you have, tum to 152. [f you haven’t, hum to

28

You fire off the Wand of Cold at the wizard, who screams
in agony as a cone of frosted snowflakes streams through
the air and freezes him. The damage to him exceeds the
norm, because Zeverin has a special susceptibility to cold,
the result of a magical curse laid on him. He loses 8 points
from his STAMINA! [f you have already inflicted at least 5
points of damage to his staMINA (from crossbow fire), he
is dead, so turn to 325. Otherwise, he’s still alive but in bad
shape (make a note on your Adventure Sheet of his STAMINA
loss for when you have to fight him). Now what will you
do, having expended your Wand (which you must now
cross off your list of Possessions}? Will you:

ae eee

29-30

Use a Potion of Flying, if you have one? Turn to 339

Use a crossbow, if you have one? Turn to 139
Cast a Coidwarding spell to protect
yourself? Turn to 85
Grip your sword and wait for a chance
to fight? Tur to 372
29

You are hit by a falling rock. Deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA, and you don’t have time to stop and eat a meal
(but you can drink a potion or some brandy or akvavit if
you have this). You move on down to the end of the
passageway and peer cautiously into the chamber beyond.
Tum to 134.

30
The armourer’s workshop has many unfinished items hang-
ing on ice pegs or lying on worktables, but no complete
suits of the very fine chain mail the Ice Elves normally
used, You find nothing magical here either, despite a
prolonged search, What will you do now? Will you:

Continue searching here? Turn to 352
Search the jeweller’s workshop, if you

haven't already done so? Turn to 218
Search the weaponmaker's workshop, if

you haven't already done so? Tum to 342
Leave this area and search elsewhere in

the Ice Palace? Turn to 23

31-33

31
Inching along, you make your way carefully down, but soon
you see that the drop leads over a fairly steep rock
overhang. Do you have climbing gear? If you have, turn to
190. If you haven't, tum to 322.

32
If you have an Ice Bird, you also have a book with you
Turn to the paragraph with the same number as the number
of pages in the book, If you don’t really have an Ice Bird,
burn to 23.

33
All at once you are surrounded by Elven spirits and ghosts

‘He has taken from the dead, he has slain one of the last
messengers, one of the Elves says angrily. They point to
the silver brooch which, you remember, you took from a
giant — the one who probably killed the Elf who had wern it
many years ago. Too late you try to protest your innocence;
lose 1 Luck point. The Elven spirits are gathering round
you and preparing to rain blows down on your body. You
can risk running to get the Ice Keys (hum to 195) before
leaving, or you can be prudent and run out now, finding
somewhere else to search in the Ice Palace before the Elf-
spirit attacks cause you serious injury (turn to 23).

34-37

34
Roll two dice. If the total is less than or equal to your

SKILL, turn to 76. If the total is greater than your SKILL,
turn to 429,

35
The Dark Elf pulls a sword from its scabbard with some

speed. While he may lack bulging muscles, his speed and
agility make up for that!

DARK ELF SPELLCASTER SKILL 9 STAMINA 7

If you win, turn to 70

36
This form of the Luck spell can be cast at any time, except
during combat. Roll one die and divide the number rolled
by 2, rounding fractions up; this is the number of Luck
points you gain {that is to say, 1-3), Your Luck cannot
exceed its Initial level, of course. Turn back to 360.

37
You make your way along a winding, featureless passage

which opens into a bare, spherical chamber, a very odd
design. You are about to enter it when a smoky shape
starts to take form within the room, and drifts soundlessly
towards youl If you've been here before and fought this
enemy, another has appeared in its place. If you want to
stay and see what happens, turn to 237. If you want to flee
and return to the main junction you came from, tum to

379-

38-39

38
Racing down the long passage, there doesn’t seem to be
any evidence of an exit in front of you, as blocks of stone
begin to shake and fall. You are in a truly desperate race
against time, Roil two dice and add 1. If the total is less
than or equal to your skILL, tum to gr. If the total is
greater than your SKILL, turn to 62.

39

You are fortunate indeed, for you crouch down as you
open the door and a volley of fiery darts hurtles just over
your head! Unfortunately for you, they're the least of the
perils in this hot, dank chamber; tum to 286

40-42

qo
Walking along the valley floor, you soon see a very large
figure step out from behind some rocks; he approaches with
an unpleasant, lopsided grin on his ugly face and wielding a
hefty club in his gnarled hands. From his white hair and
beard, the furs he wears, and the fact that he is five metres
tall, you hazard a shrewd guess that he may be a Frost
Giant. ‘Got any treasure, stranger?’ he asks with a leer,
fingering his club meaningfully. Will you:

Attack the Frost Giant? Turn to 226

Give the Frost Giant some treasure? Turn to 174

Try talking to the Frost Giant? Tum to 373
41

Searching quickly through a couple of half-demolished huts,
you find a few items that should help on a mountain tek:
some ice picks, a small mallet, and a good length of rope.
These all count as one item together, so add Climbing Gear
to your list of Possessions on the Adventure Sheet. You also
find and pocket 2 Gold Pieces; add these to your Treasure.
By now the villagers have done what they can for their
injured fellows, and they don’t take kindly to your searching
for things for yourself without helping the badly wounded
and dying first. Now you can look for the village wise man
(turn to 366) or set off after the Sphere immediately (turn
to 111).

42
‘You must have that sword enchanted for you; find the one
who must help you. Go back up the stairs and turn right there,’
Elokinan commands. You follow his instructions. Turn to 148.

43-45

43
If you do not have the Ice Sword, Tassaskil cannot help

you. You wander sadly back to the crossroads, wondering
what to do next. Tum to 3.

44
Using the Ice Keys, you open the gates to the Ice Crypts

and set off underground. However, the entranceway is a
ramp, covered in a thin layer of absolutely sheer ice. If you
have a bag of salt, turn to 261. If you have a Potion of Fire
Breath and wish to use. it here, turn to 315. If you have
neither, turn to 395.

45
You make your way down to the basement and open the

door there. Beyond is a small set of rooms, all empty save
for the one the Dark Elf leader obviously used as his rest
room. Rummaging through bedding, spare clothes and the
like, you find some items which may prove of use to you:
there are sufficient Provisions for 4 meals which you can
take if you wish; there are also 3 packets of Elven weybread,
each of which is equivalent to a full meal, but these are so
light they do not count towards your limit of 10 Provisions
which can be carried in a backpack Add them to your
Possessions, and be sure to cross them off when you
consume them. You also find a green ceramic bottle labelled

46-48

‘Potion of Flying’, which may come in useful later. Add this
to your Possessions too. Now Test your Luck lf you are
Lucky, turn to 380. If you are Unlucky, turn to 120.

46
You gain the illusory appearance of an EIf, and this com-
pletely deceives the old guardian who waves you forward
with his hand. At the crossroads ahead will you take:

The path leading to some steps directly

ahead? Turn to 64
The path to your left? Tum to 148
The path to your right? Tum to 189

47

Your opponent has a skit. of 8, When you first win an
Attack Round, turn to 256. When the Dark EIf first wins an
Attack Round, turn to 316. if you run out of bolts and you
haven't killed the Dark EIf (or if you decide you want to
use a sword anyway), you will have to head for the door at
the base of the Tower, so turn to rg6. If you hit him three
times, he ducks out of sight, so now you must get into the
Tower to finish him; turn to 196.

48
Behind the heavy door is a cell and a man in chams and
manacled to the smooth, black, stone walls. You could get the
keys dangling from the Man-Orc’s belt, and then you could
release the semi-conscious prisoner, but all this would take
time and could mean you both getting buried alive inside the
collapsing Sphere! Will you free the man and drag him out with
you (turn to 184) or turn tail and save yourself (turn to 121)?

49-50

49
Using your lantern to light your way, you enter the dark

chamber beyond. You see a fallen pile of heavy equipment,
made from meta} and shattered ice, and below it the shape
of a hand reaches out to you. The hand is that of a spirit —
it has no flesh or bone — but there is no mistaking the
groan of misery and pain that comes from below the mass
of twisted metal and chunks of ice. To reach out to the
hand could be very hazardous; some ghosts can drain life-
energy, and you could even pull down pieces of ice and
metal on yourself, Will you:

Reach for the hand, to help if you can? Turn to 142
Leave and search the armourer’s

workshop, if you haven't already done

this? Turn to 30
Leave and search the jeweller’s workshop,

if you havent been there before? Turn to 218
Leave and search some other part of the
Ice Palace ? Turn to 23

50

You throw some food to the bear; subtract 2 meals from
your Provisions total. You head off somewhere else to find
a place to sleep, but the bear just follows your scent — it
knows a free lunch when it smells one! It wants more food;
ideally, it would like to eat you! Will you try:

Throwing the bear more food? Tum to 393
Attacking the bear? Turn to 244
Climbing up a tree to hide? Turn to 96

51-52

51

To your own eyes, your appearance changes somewhat:
you look less substantial somehow, a little shimmery round
the edges, and you feel lighter (all these changes also affect
your Pegasus, if you are riding one) You hope the magic
will work to get you past the Tower guards. You soon find
out, because you fly right past a two-headed Giant, on
lookout close by one entrance door, and he doesn’t react to
you at all. You think that this invisibility is pretty strong
magic ... Now you're at the entrance. If you're with a
Pegasus, he flies off after setting you down. You summon
all your courage, grip your sword, and walk into the Tower
of Destruction. Turn to 266.

52

As you strike the killing blow, the Spectre’s appearance
changes. From the husk of the wizened spectral form, the
apparition of a young EIf, bright-eyed and smiling, appears;
you are reminded of a butterfly emerging from an ugly
cocoon. The madness which imprisoned the wretched EIf in
a warped, evil form has been sundered. A curse, perhaps .
in any case, you have released the Elf from his torment.
Gain 1 HONOUR point and z Luck point

You look around at the tombs, but there is nothing special
about any of them that catches your eye. You climb back
up, and you notice that the black ice of the tower is
beginning to lose its oppressiveness. The darkness is lifting,
and a concealed ice door in one wall has swung open to
reveal stairs of marbled ice leading upwards to the top of
the tower. You can make your way up these stairs (turn to
82) or leave this tower and search elsewhere in the Ice
Palace (turn to 23).

53

53
You must eat a meal at the end of the day, and you

manage to find somewhere secure to sleep, In the morning,
when you must eat another meal, you find that you are on
a clifftop, overlooking the valley. The smoke is clearing,
and in the valley lies the large rocky Sphere, still spitting
forth gouts of fire and plumes of filthy black smoke. There
are a few, small, human-sized figures around the Sphere.
You are going to have a tricky climb down from here. Roll
two dice and add 2 to the total rolled, unless you have
Climbing Gear; if you do have Climbing Gear, you may
subtract 2 from the total rolled If the adjusted total is
greater than your sKILL, you will stumble, graze your limbs,
and suffer various knocks and scrapes; deduct 4 points from
your STAMINA, If the total rolled is less than or equal to
YOUFr SKILL, you get down safely enough.

Now you stand a few hundred metres from the Sphere,
aeeping forward through burt and blackened tree-stumps
and rocks. Unfortunately, you have little cover, and you are
soon spotted by two guards. They look like animated
corpses, but they are blue-skinned, the water in their bodies
is solid ice, and what seems to be breath is frosting on the
air before them Their eyes are vacant and their faces
expressionless. You have to fight the two Ice Ghosts here,
together, Each Attack Round you must roll dice to deter-
mine the Attack Strengths for yourself and both your
opponents. The combatant with the highest Attack Strength
1s the one who gets in a damaging blow that round.

SKILL STAMINA
First ICE GHOST 7 7
Second ICE GHOST 7 6

54-56

When you first strike one of the Ice Ghosts, turn to 106. If
you kill one of the Ice Ghosts, tum to 165. if you win, turn

to 207

54
Your horrified glance changes to one of relief as you realize

that the ceiling collapse is nothing more than a triggered
illusion and cannot harm you. Where will you go now?
Will you:

Enter the passage opposite, if you

haven't been there before? Turn to 200
Leave the Tower and search elsewhere? Turn to 23
Follow the stairs leading up? Turn to 242

5$
This is a stunningly bad move. You find yourself flying

downwards into a huge ring of superheated burning rock
spheres and, after a few moments of intense agony, you are
just a large cinder. Your adventure ends here.

56

The Ice Bird sings once more, and the Elves raise their
voices in harmony, the echoes of their polyphony cascading
away into the far nooks and crannies of the Ice Cathedral.
The spirits begin to fade into their own realm once more,
and the magical bird’s song slowly finishes. When the last
of the Elves has departed, the bird rests its head beneath its
wing again, The spirits are at peace here. You bow your
head in a few moments of silence, but now you must press
on with your vital quest, Will you:

S7-59

Take a closer look at the organ? Tur to 14

Take the Ice Keys beside the organ? Tum to 83

Look at the tombs here? Tur to Lor
Leave here and search elsewhere in the

Ice Palace? Tum to 23

57
You descend some stairs and stand at a landing with

passageways to the left and the right. The stairs carry on
down. Do you want to;

Take the left-hand passage, if you

haven't before? Turn to 35x
Take the right-hand passage, if you

haven't before? Tum to 200
Take the stairs down, leave the Tower,

and search elsewhere? Turn to 23

58
if you have a Blue Potion, and want to drink it, turn to 260.
If you want to try any other Potion, it will have its usual
effect (restoring STAMINA, etc.) but it won't help you
against the Golem. You must either fight (turn to 333) or
run off and search elsewhere (turn to 23).

59
Rol] dice to determine Attack Strengths for yourself and

the Dark Elf as normal (the Dark EIf has a sxiit of zo). If
you have the higher Attack Strength, turn to 202. If the
Dark Elf has the higher Attack Strength, turn to 448.

60-64

60

You rummage through the Frost Giant's possessions and
find some articles you may be able to use. He has some
cooked walrus blubber wrapped in cloth: disgusting but
edible (just) and nutritious (add 3 to your Provisions). He
has 4 Gold Pieces in a pouch {add this to your Treasure),
and a silver brooch of strange, very intricate design. If you
want to take this, add the silver brooch to your Possessions
Now you can continue along the valley floor (tum to 155)
or you may want to retrace your steps and go along the
elevated mountain pathway instead (turn to 132)

61

The clouds begin to disperse as you stride out in search of
the trail the Sphere left. It takes you most of the day to get
back to it, but soon the wide wake of debris left by the
fiery Sphere is clearly visible ahead: singed and blackened
trees and pools of iced-over water formed by the melted
snow. Carefully watching your footing on such slippery
and treacherous surfaces, you walk along on one side of the
trail for safety. Turn to 378

62
You can’t find a way out. Your lungs are almost bursting
with the effort of forcing yourself to run, and your legs are
turning to jelly. Your futile efforts are laid to rest as a massive
block of stone drops from the ceiling and crushes you. You
have saved Allansia, but you could not save yourself!

63
Coward! A crossbow bolt strikes you in the back. It is
coated with venom, and you must deduct 4 points from

64-65

your STAMINA. After this stinging wound, you can tum
back and attack the Dark Elf after all (turn to 196) or run
away and find another part of the Ice Palace to search (turn
to 23).

64

Not far down the steps is a pair of arched gates which
reach from the ceilmg to floor. They have no handles,
latches or any other obvious way of opening. There is just
one word etched into them ‘Call’ If you know how many
times to call, turn to the paragraph with the same number.
If you don’t know how many times to call, you cannot
enter here; turn to 3.

65
You see the flying robed figure clearly before you, darting
‘rom behind a smoky hiding place. And you recognize him:
Zeverin! His hands move in the gestures of the spellcaster’s
craft as he prepares a spell to cast at you. How are you
going to deal with this? Will you:

Use a Potion of Flying, if you have one? Turn to 339
Use a crossbow, if you can? Turn to 139
Fire a Wand of Cold at Zeverin, if you

have this? Tur to 28
Cast a Coldwarding spell to protect

yourself? Tur to 85
Grip your sword and wait for a chance

to fight? Turn to 372

66

Torsten leads you some distance to the west, where his
tribe have pitched their tents and tethered their livestock.
His story of your kindness brings murmurs of approval, and
you are plied with hot food and akvavit, the throat-scarring
iced clear spirit, flavoured with caraway seed, which the
barbarians favour. You ask about Ice Ghosts and the Sphere,
and the mood grows sombre. The tribe's chieftain speaks
softly, with barely controlled anger

‘The Sphere brings fire and death because of a wizard, the
spirits say. The wizard has lived many lives in the past,
each more evil than the one before. He is within the
Sphere, and yet not there. He consorts with things of the
Pit, with Demons and stalkers in the night, He creates Ice
Ghosts from the bodies of the slain to be his servants. They
are flesh and ice, blood and snow, bone and frost. The
wizard has brought the Sphere forth by a song of blood
and nightmares, a song with a deeper and darker harmony
which has the cadences of destruction within it.’ The chief-
tain’s voice is strangely altered; these are not the words of
a simple barbarian. You remember that this tribe believes in
communicating with the spirits of the dead, and surely a
spirit is speaking through the mouth of the chieftain now.
‘We are headed to our Spirit Grounds, to talk with our
forefathers, to learn what must be done,’ the chieftain says,
to murmurs of affirmation from his fellows, This sounds
fine, except that you have the nagging feeling that, by the
time they’ve done this, it may be too late ... Tum to 262.

67-69

67
By your failure to help you have abandoned many souls to
distress and denied them fair rest. Lose 1 HONOUR point, If
you want to reconsider, go back and help, turn to 213. If
you still want to go somewhere else, turn to 23.

68

At night-time, a huge white owl flies down to the place
where you have made a shelter for the night. It looks
dolefully down at you “The wizard escaped, it says re-
proachfully, ‘and you left a man to die in there.’ You say
nothing, shame-faced. ‘Now you have to redeem yourself
and regain your honour. Only in one place can a way to
defeat the wizard and his Tower be found; Elokinan’s Ice
Palace. It lies some eighty kilometres to the north-east from
here. You will have to go there and find the magical
treasures which will protect you against the dread Lord of
the Tower. If you don’t, you will perish under the fiery rain
of death the Tower will bring to all. Including you.’ The
bird looks at you, awaiting an answer,

A wave of anger bursts fom you. You cry that you will
travel anywhere and do anything to get your revenge on
the wizard who sneered and laughed at you, and who killed
your family and friends. Whatever it takes, you will do it.
The owl looks satisfied; it spends the night watching over
you In the morning you awaken with a new purpose and a
new destination; turn to 246.

69
‘There are many items of magic located in the Ice Palace,
but two are of especial note. One is the Sword of Tassaskil,

7o-7 I

which lies in the Ice Cathedral. Its power is great, but latent,
and Tassaskil himself would have to regenerate its enchant-
ment for you; you have to take it to him. The other is
Elokinan’s Chalice, which can pour out a draught capable of
raising a mortal’s STAMINA to extraordinary levels; and it
can give other blessings. This lies with Elokinan’s ghost, in
the Ice Crypts themselves. But you cannot get in without the
keys, and . . .’ Tragically the spirit’s voice fades into nothing-
ness and its last few words are Jost to you! Turn to 355.

7o
You take the jewellery the Dark Elf has gathered together;
this is worth 12 Gold Pieces (add this to your Treasure),
Further searching doesn’t uncover anything else; the Dark
Elf had clearly looted the Jot. Gem-cutting and soft-metal-
working tools crafted from magical ice are mounted on the
tables here, and there are tiny prisms of ice which store
magical light, used for detailed work by the craftsmen who
once worked here. You can only marvel at such remarkable
artefacts, and feel sorrow for the passing of the gifted Elves
who no longer practise their crafts here. Now, will you:

Search the armourer’s workshop, if you
haven't already done so? Turn to 30
Search the weapormaker’s workshop, if

you haven't already? Turn to 342
Leave this area and search elsewhere in
the Ice Palace? Turn to 23

71
The chamber appears to be featureless and bare, but will
you be able to find anything here? Roll two dice. If the

72-74

total is less than or equal to your sKILt, turn to 18. If the
total is greater than your SKILL, return to the three-way
junction; turn to 379.

72
You now stand in a spacious chamber at the top of the Tower
of Airy Light For a moment as you entered, you thought you
were in a huge auditorium, like a theatre; you could see a
stage, huge red curtains, the familiar laughing and crying
mask-faces to either side .. then the apparition is gone
Instead, in this high-robfed and grand chamber stand ice
sculptures and busts of Elves, the sculptures animated and
expressive, almost lifelike in appearance. There are many more
sculptures running round a gallery which you could reach by
climbing a balustrade of blue ice, or you could go elsewhere
by entering one of the light beams in this chamber. Will you:

Roam around the gallery upstairs, if you

haven't already done this? Turn to 150
Enter the red light beam here? Turn to 274
Enter the blue light beam here? Turn to 167
Enter the white light beam here? Turn to 252

73
You find 1 Gold Piece in the worm’s guts, but you also

manage to splash some digestive acid on your bare skin
Deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA. Clean up and press
onwards; turn to 282.

74
If you have a Blue Potion and wish to drink it, turn to 46. If

you drink any other potion, it will have its usual effect

75-78

(restoring lost sTAMINA, etc.), but it will not directly help
you here, so return to 370 to choose another course of
action

75
Before you can get to the wizard, he manages to fire off

another spell at you. This time a glittering rain of golden
motes of light dances round you, chill and cool and draining
energy from you, Deduct 3 points from your STAMINA, and
now you must Tes! your Luck. If you are Lucky, you suffer
no additional effect. if you are Unlucky, you must subtract 2
point from your skit for the rest of your combat with
Zeverin — and that's in addition to any other skit penalty
you may have incurred for this combat! Now do your best
as you close in on the wizard, Turn to 27r.

76

You manage to bring down the moose with a single shot
straight through its neck. Gain 1 Luck point for such a
fluke! You can cut some joints of meat from the carcass, up
to the maximum for your Provisions, but you must record
the meat separately, because it won’t be edible until you
can cook it. Turn to 291

The Spectre has drained some of your life-energy — you
must deduct 1 point from your sxkILt score! Tur to 52

78
Roll two dice and add 1 to the total rolled — bareback
Pegasus flying isn’t easy to learn! If the total is less than or
equal to your SkILL, turn to 182. If the total is greater than
your SKILL, turn to 9§.

yA

‘ee aaa.

j , pias
‘4 iil Lill

——

|

7 i aa
PRPABUILERAAYIIORN

79

79
Beyond the heavy door a startling scene confronts you:

the chamber you have entered is large, measuring twenty
metres across. It has black walls. and a large wall-screen
pulsing red and orange stands at the far end. Otherwise the
room is largely bare, but you can make out several stone
thrones in the distance; they are set out before what looks
like a huge black sarcophagus. On top of the sarcophagus is
a sculpted figure of a Demon, and this stone figure holds a
metal lever in one hand and a whip constructed of glowing
metal links in the other. Glowing gems are set into the eye
sockets and fingers of the statue.

Two figures are standing behind the thrones: one is a
massively muscled Man-Ore, clad in heavy, banded armour
and wielding a powerful-looking curved scimitar; the other
is a slender, wiry, dark-haired man in wizardly robes, not
tall and slightly stooped. Neither appears to be bothered at
your entry; the wizard looks at you and then at the Man-
Orc. ‘Kill him will you, Dazrakk? I’ve got more important
things to do,’ the wizard says contemptuously and hums
away. Your blood boils at this insult to your ability, and
you charge to fight the Man-Orc. You soon discover that
he is no ordinary Man-Orc: he is very powerful and nimble
on his feet despite his considerable size; his eyes burn with
a malign intelligence rare among his people. He’s not going
to be easy to defeat!

MAN-ORC CHAMPION SKILL 40 STAMINA 10

After three Attack Rounds have passed, make a note of the
Man-Orc’s skILL and current STAMINA scores and turn to

149.

80-82

Te)
You etch the correct symbol on to the clock-face and the
silver amulet falls into your hand. Gain 1 Luck point. Add
the silver amulet to your Possessions, and make a note of
the name of the Elf who, in some sense, has given it to you:
Mealin. Now it’s time to leave by entering one of the light
beams. Will you enter:

The green beam? Tum to 252
The blue beam? Tum to 167
The red beam? Tum to 274

Br

The magical ring flares light along your arm and down
over your sword-hand and you feel that your humble
sword may be able to affect this Elemental without being
destroyed, as non-magical weapons are when they touch
such a magical, fearsome opponent. If you want to flee, you
can do so; you will suffer 4 points of damage to your
STAMINA from the Fire Elemental’s attacks as you flee up
the stairs; burn to 324. If you prefer to stand and fight, then
do your best!

SMALL FIRE ELEMENTAL — SKILL 10 = STAMINA 22

If you win, you can climb up the stairs to the next level
(turn to 324) or up two flights of stairs to the top level
(turn to 183)

82
You ascend the stairs into a domed chamber filled with ice
pillars that lead down to a series of concentric half-circle ice
steps. The ice here has changed from black to white, and

83-84

the light seems to be shining from the middle of the
ceiling. There are very faint echoes of song here. If you
have an Ice Bird with you, turn to 32. If you don't, the
music fades and you leave here and search elsewhere, so
turn to 23.

83
You take the Ice Keys, on their ring of ice, from the peg
beside the organ. There are numerous small and a few large
keys, forty-four in total — but they are light and will not be
troublesome to carry. Add forty-four Ice Keys to your
Possessions. Now, will you:

Look at the ice organ, if you haven't

done so? Turn to 11
Look over the tombs, if you haven't
done so? Turn to 101
Leave here and search elsewhere in the
Ice Palace? Turn to 23
84

Your boots crunch across the permafrost as you stride past
the homes of the Ice Elves, heading for the well-built
Tower of Shielding with its crenellated outline. As you get
close to it, a crossbow bolt goes whizzing past your head;
you look up and see another Dark Elf archer on top of the
Tower letting fly at you. Why won't these cowards fight
hand-to-hand like an honourable warrior? What will you do
now?

Return missile fire with a crossbow , if
you can? Turn to 47

85-86

Head for the door at the base of the

Tower? Turn to 196
Run away and search elsewhere in the
Ice Palace? Tum to 63
BS

Unfortunately you aren't as quick at casting speils as a
wizard is. Zeverin manages to get in a nasty little spell
which fires whirling darts at you before you can complete
the Coldwarding spell. Deduct 2 points from your STAMINA
and the Coldwarding speli is ruined (and won't give you
any protection). Now what will you do? Will you:

Use a Potion of Flying, if you have one? Turn to 339
Use a crossbow if you have one? Turn to 139
Fire a Wand of Cold at Zeverin, if you
have one? Tum to 28
Grip your sword and wait for a chance
to fight? Turn to 372
86

Soon after you manage to rescue the child the whole hut
collapses. Your rescue was in the nick of time! Gain 1
HONOUR point. The other villagers have done what they
can for the other wounded; now you sit down with them
to discuss what happened. Their story adds nothing to
what you know already: the huge fiery Sphere passed by
overhead, but seemed to dip as it flew over the village, as if
to cause as much damage and distress as possible. Then it
flew off northwards. No one among the villagers can
pursue the murderous Sphere: many are injured anid, of the
fit, some must tend the wounded and the rest are already

87

preparing to hurry to distant Zengis to buy healing and
herbal] medicines. They are proud of you for going on alone
in pursuit of the Sphere; they cannot accompany you. They
do give you some climbing gear, though: ice picks, some
rope and a small hammer (note this down as Climbing Gear
on your list of Possessions). They also give you a flask of
brandy: there are two large swigs of brandy here, each of
which will restore 4 lost staAMINA points when drunk
Make a note of this and add the brandy to your Possessions.
Finally, if you have lost any stTAMINA, you can now eat
enough food to raise your current sTAMINA back to its
Inihal level.

It’s too dark to continue now, so you spend the night
asleep in one of the few dwellings left standing in the
village. In the moming you set off northwards, with the
good wishes of your fellows ringing in your ears. Turn to
282

You struggle up a steeply raked set of steps, working
against the heat and your aching muscles. How high can
this hellish tower be? At least the steps end but, as you
drag yourself up the last few metres towards the archway

88-8y

in the distance, there’s only darkness ahead. A side passage
runs off from the landing you are on, but you can’t see any
exits from it. You think you might have heard footfalls
echoing in the far distance in that direction, though Will
you:

Step into the darkness? Turn to 319

Explore the side passage? Turn to 191

Cast a spell here? Turn to 103
; 88

You follow the long, dank passageway as it winds down
and round a long, curving comer and then opens into a
vast, snow-misted graveyard. The scene is atrocious: some
warped horror has run amok, smashing open the resting-
places of the Elves, leaving long shards of shattered blue ice
and shrouded Elven bodies behind in a wake of senseless
destruction. There is a strange and disturbing atmosphere
here too, as if some angry spirits were still watching over
this terrible scene. What will you do here? Will you return
to the crossroads (turn to 67) or enter, in order to put the
disturbed dead back to rest (tum to 213)?

89
How much do you know about controlling this magical

Sphere? You try tinkering with one or two gems, and then
decide to risk a sharp tug on the metal-chain whip that the
statue holds. You regret this immediately: a violent electrical
shock hammers up your arm, and you must deduct 5 points
from your sTAMINA, If you are still alive, the entire Sphere
suddenly begins to shudder and a ghastly rumbling noise
fills the chamber. You know it’s time to get out, that

go-O1

something awful is about to happen. But another groan
comes from behind the door; will you open it (turn to 48)
or just run from the imminent catastrophe (turn to 386)?

go
Slowly the barbarian recovers and gulps the water you
offer him from his flask. He looks at you suspiciously at
first, but then he discovers that you have patched up his
head-wound and he understands that you are friendly. His
name is Torsten, he confides; after thanking you for your
help, he says he was pursued by Ice Ghosts, terrible creatures
made by evil wizardry from the remains of human bodies.
You wonder whether this is true: barbarians have vivid
imaginations about spirits and suchlike — but on the other
hand, it takes a lot to make one run! You help Torsten back
up the slope, taking a lengthier route than before. He wants
you to come back with him to his tribe’s camp, to thank
you properly for rescuing him, This means staying over-
night and having a thundering hangover in the morning,
but it would give offence to refuse. Will you accompany
Torsten (hum to 66) or say goodbye and head off towards
the Sphere (turn to 235)?

gI
You see a very narrow side passage to your left, leading
into a chamber where people in leather armour are putting
on harnesses of some kind. It looks like an evacuation!
You've got to take this chance, so you race down the
passage towards the chamber. Test your Luck. lf you are
Lucky, you make it to the chamber; turn to 134. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 29 ;

92-93

92

The rooms are obviously those of a herbalist and alchemist.
His herbs, spices and rare compounds are frozen into
uselessness and, bizarrely, his instruments, flasks and retorts
appear to be made of ice! The burners he used have
rainbow-swirled ice stems, and one of them still crackles
with a little feeble Coldfire after all these years. A determined
search here takes some time, so you must eat a meal while
you are here. You find only one item of real use, 2a Blue
Potion in a translucent ice flask. The liquid is very oily and
hasn’t frozen; oddly, the flask has a pair of pointed ears
etched on it. If you take the Blue Potion, add it to your
Possessions. Now, will you:

Enter the red light beam here? Turn to 397

Enter the yellow light beam here? Tum to 167

Enter the purple light beam here? Turn to 252
93

You manage to force open the secret door with your hands
— and a spring-loaded spear comes flying out! You just
manage to evade a lethal direct hit, but the wound it gives
you as it grazes your rib-cage stings badly and weakens
you. Deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA. Worse still, the
small chamber behind the door is empty save for a fine
coating of dust, and maybe it was just your imagination or
perhaps there really was the sound of laughter just then. . .
If you are still alive, will you:

94-97
Take the steps up one flight? Tum to 324
Take the steps up two flights? Tum to 183

Follow the passage leading away fromhere?. = Turn to 26

94
You make your way down to the crossroads with your

superb sword, feeling strengthened and strong. Turn to 3.

95
You have a few seconds to contemplate your tragic end as

you fall from the back of the Pegasus. You will never know
what it would have been like to face the ultimate challenge.
Your adventure ends here.

96
The bear snuffles hungrily about for the prey it smells, and
it even shakes the tree you're in; it doesn’t go away until
dawn! You get no sleep and your muscles ache abominably.
Deduct 2 points from your stAMINA. When the coast is
clear, you clamber down the tree; turn to 289.

97
Black, dead eyes stare from sunken sockets in the face of

the wizened EIf. Its breathing comes as a rasp, its voice a
guttural intonation of pure hatred and madness. “You made
me defile my own people,’ it croaks, ‘you drove me insane.
I will drain your life away, wretch.’ Although you realize
this poor insane spirit must be talking to someone in its
twisted memory, this doesn’t alter the fact that it’s heading
straight for you. You are forced to fight!

SPECTRE SKILL 10 STAMINA 14

98-99

If you win, and the Spectre didn’t hit you at all, turn to 52.
If you win but the Spectre did hit you, you must now roll
one die. If you roll a 6, turn to 52. If you rol] any other
number, turn to 77.

98

Rattling or pushing at the gates, even striking them, won't
get you past them. Clearly, they are magically strengthened.
You can only get in here if you have the Ice Keys. If you
do, you know how many keys there are; tum to the
paragraph with the same number as the number of Ice Keys
you have. If you don’t have the Ice Keys you can’t get in,
but if you manage to find the Ice Keys you can return to
this location and open the doors by retuming to this
paragraph after you have completed your searches else-
where (so make a note of this paragraph number on your
Adventure Sheet). You must also make a note of the fact
that, if you search the Ice Palace and don’t find any Ice
Keys, you must turn to 309. But for now, if you don’t have
any Ice Keys, you can go on to explore the stores and
warehouses (turn to 187) or find somewhere else to search
in the Ice Palace (turn to 23).

99
If you want to use a Potion of Fire Breath, you can burn a

way through the webs. If you want to use a Wand of Cold,
you can freeze the webs and break their brittle strands with
no ill-effects, to yourself. In either case, tum to 334, but
remember to cross the item you use off your Possessions.
Other items won't help here. If you don’t have such magic,
or you have it but don’t want to use it here, turn to
185.

1900-101

100
The great ice gates open, and you are almost blinded by
the brilliant blue-white light which streams out and up the
steps behind you. Squinting through the light, you cannot
see how large this chamber is, but you can see a tall, fair,
slender Elf-spirit, clad all in white, and you are almost
shaking in awe of him. The spirit of Elokinan, the Mage-
Architect, chieftain and last of his race, stands resplendent
and majestic before you. His noble face and centuries-sad-
dened eyes turn to face you. Elokinan looks directly into
your soul, What happens now depends on your HONOUR
score. If your HONOUR is:

4 or less Turn to 119

5-8 Turn to 327

9 or 10 Turn to 251

exactly 12 Turn to 207

12 or higher Tum to 343
1oL

The four tombs are of solid, completely transparent ice,
and within them are the bodies of Elves wrapped in
shrouds, each holding an object. One tomb has an adult
male Elf holding a sword, seemingly made of ice, and an
angel is etched into the ice of the tomb One tomb has
an adult female Elf holding a wand, with the image of an
Elf-queen etched into the ice. One has a young female Elf
holding a jewelled amulet; and the last tomb has a very
young male Elf-child holding some intricate wooden
puzzle or toy, It would not be difficult for you to break
into the tombs if you wished. What will you do here?
Will you:

102-104

Open the tomb of the adult male EIF? Turn to 201
Open the tomb of the adult female EIf? Tum to 228
Open the tomb of the young female Elf? Turn to 337

Open the tomb of the Elf-child? Turn to 112
Leave the tombs sealed and perform
some other action? Tur to 137
102

The door at the bottom of the steps is firmly locked and
there’s nothing you can do to open it. You have to make
your way up the spiral staircase instead. Turn to 295.

103
Make your choice of spell to cast, then you must either
enter the darkness (turn to 319) or explore the side passage
(turn to rgX).

104
Standing to one side, you force open the secret door with
your crowbar — and you avoid the hefty spear which comes
flying straight out! You avoid a nasty wound, but there’s
nothing in the chamber behind the door, only some dirt
and the spring mechanism for the spear trap. Cursing your
ill-tuck, will you:

Take the steps up one flight? Turn to 324
Take the steps up Ewo flights? Tum to 183
Follow the passageway leading away

from here? Turn to 26

105-106

105

You press on without incident for the rest of the day, and
then you must eat another meal. You sleep safely, and in
the moming you must eat another meal in order to keep
going You guess that now you're only a day or so away
from your destination, but the terrain is hard and this day
isn’t going to be peaceful.

Right at the end of the day, when you are looking for a
safe place to rest in the fading light, a swirling flurry of
snow whirls away from a drift nearby and begins to take
on a much more solid form. Snow and ice coalesce to form
a huge, horned monster of white ice, Someone, or some-
thing, has sent an Ice Demon to confront you! You must
fight this evil, enchanted horror.

ICE DEMON SKILL 9 STAMINA 11

At the beginning of each Attack Round, roll one die. If the
roll is 1-3, the Ice Demon has breathed on you and you
must deduct 1 point from your sTAMINA, regardless of the

) i ih \ !

( il Hl eS = SS A hi outcome of that Attack Round and any blow which may

Faith have struck you! If you win, turn to 306,

Ni

106
Unfortunately swords don’t do as much damage as you
would expect. The bodies of the Ice Ghosts are frozen
solid, and a piercing weapon doesn’t work as well as
normal. Roll one die. If you roll 1-3, your blow causes only
1 point of damage to the target’s stamina. If you roll 4-6,
your blow does the usual 2 points of damage

If you have a heavy mace, you may now switch to this

nn ___ EE _____
107-108

weapon, Doing this takes a whole Attack Round (during
which time one of the Ice Ghosts will strike you, so you
must deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA). The heavy
mace always causes 2 points of damage when it strikes an
Ice Ghost, Return to §3 to finish the combat

ee
At the end of the passage there is a sharp right-hand tum,
then the passage ends in a set of steps which lead upwards
and another set leading down, Will you go up (hun to 388)
or down (turn to 126) here?

108

As you near the far door, a body on one of the slabs jerks
upright. Blue-veined, grey-skinned and radiating a deep
chill and malice, the dead eyes of the animated horror roll
back in its eye sockets, but still it senses your presence and
wants to kill you! You must fight the Iee Ghost here. If you
have only a sword or a spear, your weapon will do only 1
point of damage on a roll of 1-3 on a single die after you
win an Attack Round. If you roll 4-6, then you inflict the
usual 2 points of damage. If you have a heavy mace, the
weapon always causes 2 points of damage when you hit
because a blunt weapon crunches into the frozen tissues of
the Ice Ghost, causing more damage!

ICE GHOST SKILL 7

If you win, something awful happens to the Ice Ghost. Its
head appears to crack open, and its spirit hangs in the air in
a tiny cloud of frosted fog before seeping away and a
ghastly moan issues from its throat while this is happening.
Repulsed by this sight and eager to get away, you rush to
the door beyond and fling it open; turn to 79.

STAMINA &

109-110

109
The little horror runs to one of the ice walls, blends right
into it, and is gone before you can strike at it! It has run off
with one of your Possessions. Roll one die and add 2; then
laok down your list of Possessions and the item in the
same position on the list (3rd to 8th) as the total rolled has
been taken. If you roll a number that is higher than the
number of Possessions you have, the Mite got away
empty-handed after all. The Ice Mite isn’t large enough to
take a weapon or your backpack, however, Cursing the
thieving Mite and finding to your annoyance that there is
nothing here of any use to you, there’s only one thing to
do — leave by entering a light beam, Will you enter:

The red beam? Turn to 252
The blue beam? Turn to 274
The green beam? Tum to 364
The beam of pure darkness? Tum to 72

110
You can command the Stone Jaguar to fight for you at the
very start of a combat, whereupon it will animate and fight to
the death on your behalf. The Stone Jaguar has siti 8 and
STAMINA 8. It can be activated once and once only, so you
must make a note of when you use it. You can’t use it once a
combat has started, unless you are specifically instructed that
you can do so. It makes best sense to have the Stone Jaguar
fight alone, since it lasts for only one combat and you should
use it to minimize risk and damage to yourself! Add the Stone
Jaguar to your Possessions. Now, will you head up the stairs
to see what is on the top floor of the Great Tower (turn to 164)
or leave and search elsewhere in the Ice Palace (turn to 23)?

I1lI—-1i2

It
Your behaviour has been shameful: the injured and pain-
racked people of your own village needed your help at
once! Lose 1 point from your HoNouR. With their sullen
glares still piercing your back, you leave your people
behind. Turn to 224

Pe 4

The child’s toy has become brittle and fragile in the cold
and damp, and the tomb of a child is surely no place for a
warrior to seek help for a quest. Lose z point from your
HONOuR for tomb-robbing and 1 point from your Lucx for
making such a bad choice. You can now choose to open
another tomb (return to 101 to make a selection of one you
haven't opened yet) or perform some other action (turn to

137).

113-114

113
Towards the end of the day, you see a young moose near by,
nibbling at some lichens on a rock. If you have a crossbow and
bolts, turn to 34. If you don’t have this weapon, turn to 311

114
You are in the middle of complimenting yourself on having
destroyed the thing which took the lives of your people
when the wizard you just ‘killed’ appears right in front of
you! You reach for the scimitar, but the wizard waves to
you not to bother, “You can’t hurt me, you fool,’ he sneers,
There is an unshakeable confidence in his voice and you
know that, this time at least, he’s right. Tm not actually
here, Projection magic, you know. Very simple incantation
for a Supreme Mage.’ He pauses for your accolade; you
don’t give him one. ‘This Sphere was only a practice, a little
test-run. The real thing — the Tower — will be ready very
soon, and then the whole of this stinking !and of Allansia
will be cleansed by fire within weeks,’ There’s a slight edge
of hysteria and a hint of insanity in that remark . . . ‘I'd like
you to think about that, you snivelling failure’ Then the
projection has gone, vanished in an instant

What can you do? You spend the rest of the day with your
head in your hands, wondering where to go, what to

ON eee

115-116

attempt. You must eat a meal at this time. Afterwards, if
you have met a talking owl on your travels, tum to 68, IF
you haven't, turn to 335.

IIS

As you walk forward, you feel your energy being sapped
by the extreme cold, Deduct 2 points from your STAMINA.
Then a slender, spectral Ice Elf with spinning knives in his
hands appears before you in the archway leading to the
bright chamber, ‘Who do you seek?’ he asks suspiciously. ‘Is
it Elokinan, Tuinarel!, Tassaskil or Meloniel?’ What will you
say in reply?

Elokinan? Turn to 198
Tuinare!? Tum to 239
Tassaskil? Tur to 305
Meloniel? Tum to 2543
Will you attack the EIf instead? Turn to 359

116

The air gets hotter as you descend the stairs, and they end
in a circular, plain chamber with a single passageway
leading off it. The heat feels even greater in that direction,
and the smokiness of the air makes your eyes water. If you
have to fight down here (before taking the stairs back up),

117

you will have to subtract 1 from your current skILt for as
long as you remain. So will you:

Climb the stairs back up to where you

came from? Turn to 324
Climb the stairs up two flights, if you
haven't been there before? Turn to 183
Follow the passageway here? Tum to 26
Search this plain chamber? Tum to 303
117

You kill the poor barbarian, who is unable to resist, You
rifle through his possessions and take a pouch with 3 Gold
Pieces, 2 Provisions, and any of the following you may
wish to take (add what you can to your Possessions): a
stone axe, an ivory-handled dagger, and a crude spear. You
lose 2 points of HONOUR for this cowardly and evil act
You return to the trail; turn to 235

———“=CS SS SS Sree

}

|

| - =
z=
a

>
M)

bi
:

¢

'

118-119

118

You walk on tiptoe along a narrow passageway which
slopes downwards, and soon you come to a door which has
an iron grille set into it. In the chamber beyond is a very
odd sight A human-shaped pillar of rough, coarse stone
holds in its ‘hands’ a globe of very hot, glowing rock, on to
which it is blowing a yellow dusty breath As the creature
blows, the rock grows redder and redder; then, finally, the
stone monster throws the rock in an arc across the room
and into an aperture in the wall, The strange, swirling
darkness of the hole swallows up the flaming rock sphere,
and it whistles away into the distance, leaving only a faint
glow behind. Meanwhile the stone creature has picked up a
dully glowing rock from a pile at its feet and is beginning
to blow on it, starting the process once again, This is all
very strange! But it may have something to do with how
the great Sphere is powered, so perhaps you will want to
stop it. On the other hand, the stone monster looks pretty
formidable. What will you do? Will you:

Open the door and attack? Turn to 219
Return to the T-junction, and take the
middle path? Turn to 279
Return to the T-junction, and take the
left-hand path? Turn to 37
11g

Elokinan dismisses you with a wave of his hand You are
unworthy; deduct 2 points from your tuck. You find
yourself outside in the snow. Turn to 309.

120-123

120
You gather up your new acquisitions and start back up the
steps, and then you notice that the stone jaguar statuette is
glowing with a faint, magical aura. If you want to pick it
up and take it with you, turn to 110. If you want to make
your way up to the top floor of the Great Tower and open
the door there, turn to 164. If you want to search elsewhere
in the Ice Palace, turn to 23.

121
You flee down the stairs and along the passage to save
yourself, leaving a human being — an enemy of the evil
wizard who controlled the Sphere — behind you to die as
the Sphere explodes in a vast ball of flaming rock. Deduct 1
point from your HONOUR and 1 point from your Luck.
Turn to r1rq.

122
Fortunately for you, this isn’t really a dragon — it’s an Ice
Drake, a close relative of the White Dragon, but not quite so
tough. However, it has razor-sharp teeth the size of daggers
and cruelly barbed talons, and a thundering mass of eagerly
hungry reptile hurtling towards you will not be easy to defeat!

ICE DRAKE SKILL 10 STAMINA 13

If you win, you carry on towards the last step of your
journey, but first you can recover any gold you gave the
dragon! Turn to 331.

123
You find nothing in the ice rubble. This part of the Palace
buildings seems rather everyday, but then these are prob-

124-125

ably the homes of the ordinary Ice Elves — if there is such a
thing as an ordinary Ice EIf, that is Do you want to
continue searching through the homes (tum to 263) or
retrace your steps and search elsewhere in the Ice Palace
(turn to 23)?

124
The beast turns into stone once more and lies, lifeless and
harmless, on the ground! There is only the very faintest
trace of magic left within it, so you leave it where it is. Will
you now take the steps down (tum to 102) or the spiral
staircase up (turn to 29§)?

125
The unblinking eyes of the huge owl bore into you.
Following the hellfire, are you?’ it asks You nod slowly,
wondering what you should say to a talking owL ‘Tt will be
easy to find, but very hard to deal with. Already the
creatures the barbarians ‘all Ice Ghosts walk the world
around it,’ the owl says sadly. Before you can ask about Ice
Ghosts, the bird continues, ‘Unless you are looking for
death, you should talk with Tasrin the Sage; he can tell you
more about it than I can. He lives in Broad Dale Valley, a
day's walk over there’ — the owl points a wing to the east —
‘go and see him tomorrow. I'll keep watch here tonight.
you can sleep safely.’ The ow! glides into the air, patrolling
the skies around you, before you can even thank it for
undertaking sentry duty. You settle down to a peaceful sleep.

In the moming there is no sign of the owl. The trail of the
Sphere still leads north; making a detour to visit the sage
will cost you precious time. Will you visit Tasrin {turn to
314) or press on northwards (tum to 289)?

126-129

126

The stairs terminate on a landing with no obviaus exits. As
you wonder where to go and whether to search for a secret
door, you suddenly realize that it might have been very
stupid to take the stairs leading down when you entered sa
close to the base ,,. too late! A clawed hand has already
pulled a lever, and you have just a few seconds spinning
through the air in which to lament your foolishness before
you become a spreading stain on the ground. Your adven-
ture ends here,

127
You climb down the slippery steps, taking care to avoid
falling and set foot in the cellars of the Tower of Black Ice
Your breath tums to frost in the air, and the chill is not
coming simply from the icy cold. Your furs don’t protect
you from the marrow-freezing evil here. You can see only a
honeycomb of tomb chambers before you, but slowly a
form is coalescing in the air, It appears to be an Elf of some
sort, but it is spectral, and is hunched as if twisted by its
own malice and hatred of life. You have time to mun and
search elsewhere (turn to 23) or you can prepare to fight
this creature, whatever it is (turn to 97).

128
‘You are brave and good,’ Elokinan pronounces, ‘and you
are worthy to drink from the chalice’ Turn to 257

129
A blizzard begins to descend. You have to run back to
Tasnn’s cabin; pressing on in this weather would be mad-
ness. You find enough food left in the cabin for today’s

130

meals, but you lose another day, having to spend another
night in the cabin until the weather clears. In the morning
you set off again, hoping for better luck. Turn to 6x.

130
The rest of the magical bolts fire into your body, cutting
and wounding you, Deduct 4 points from your STAMINA.
Relem, pleased with your pain, prepares to come down and
attack; turn to 147.

131-134

131

You're not the only scavenger here. You walk round the
comer and find yourself face to face with a huge snow
tiger, coiled and ready to pounce! The hungry predator
smelled you coming, and it is drooling over its massive
sharp fangs at the prospect of fresh meat!

SNOW TIGER SKILL 8 STAMINA 10

If you win, you continue your search: turn to 347.

132
The light snow covering here makes it easier to travel
quickly, but there is also a major hazard here, After noon,
you hear a rumbling sound far above, and you look up to
see a cloud of snow beginning to move down the mountain-
side! You must Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, bum to
345. If you are Unlucky, tum to 203.

133
It won't be easy to get an accurate strike at the gem: roll
two dice and add 1 to the number rolled. If the total is less
than or equal to your SKILL, tum to 220. If the total rolled
is greater than your SKILL, tum to 267.

134
In the chamber, you can see people putting on harnesses
and jumping out through an archway into the sky, under
the direction of a robed figure. The escaping people carry
weapons and armour, and you guess that they would have
been used as a ground force to attack any survivors of the

135-136

Tower’s awesome magical assaults. What will you do now?
Will you move straight in and attack thern (turn to 230) or
wait briefly to see what happens in the chamber (turn to

363)?

135

You look into a round chamber in which a black stone
circular staircase leads up into a gloom where nothing is
discernible. There is a strong humming sound coming from
the top of the stairs. You pluck up courage and climb the
stairs, then you come to a door which you force open
inside is a long, narrow, chilly room — very different from
the rest of the Sphere — with many marble slabs lying along
its sides. You can clearly make out the shapes of bodies
beneath dirty shrouds on the slabs. At the far end of the
chamber is another door, and the humming sound is coming
from that direction.

Instinctively you know that what lies beyond the door in
the distance will give you the clue to the mysteries of the
murderous Sphere, so you press on. Now, if you have spent
5 days or more getting to the Sphere, turn to ro8. If you
have spent 4 or fewer days getting to the Sphere, turn to

136
Tassaskil places a final enchantment which allows you to
disregard ONE (and only one!) spell which a wizard will
cast at you in a later combat. You can ignore any STAMINA
loss or special effect which that one spell would otherwise
inflict. You get to use this power just once, when you so
choose. Now Tassaskil’s work is done; turn to 94.

137-139

137
When you have finished with the tombs, will you:

Look at the ice organ, if you haven't

already done so? Tum to 12
Take the Ice Keys, if you don’t already
have them? Turn to 83
Leave here and search elsewhere in the
Ice Palace? Tum to 23
138

As you push against the door of the Great Tower, the
illusion disappears — there is no door! The Ice Elves did not
want unexpected (and possibly hostile) guests trying to
sneak in and avoid the guards at the gatehouse. Suddenly a
cage of ice spears materializes around you and begins to
radiate extreme cold! You have to hack your way out of
the cage. If you have a mace, this will take you 4 rounds. If
you use some other weapon, it will take 6 rounds. Each
round, you lose either 1 or 2 points from your STAMINA
(roll one die each round: 1-3, you lose 1 point; 4-6 you
lose 2 points). If you are still alive, it’s obvious you will
have to head for the gatehouse; turn to 4.

If you have any magical crossbow bolts, turn to 283. If you
don’t have any, tum to 178.

140-142

140

The bird sings sweetly, and the huge ice doors swing open
You enter and walk down the central aisle of the massive
cathedral, its vaulted ceiling almost impossibly high above
you, with a sense of awe at the sheer scale and beauty of
this place. As you walk forward to the chancel and nave,
you are heading towards a huge organ made of fluted
icicles and spiralled pipes of ice; a massive angel sculpted
out of ice stands above its strange keyboard. Hanging on
the wall to one side of this instrument is a large ring of Ice
Keys and an intricate basket of ice filigree, and on the other
side of it is a group of four ice sarcophagi arranged in a
cross pattern. If you have a silver brooch, turn to 33. If you
haven't, turn to 288.

14x

Extraordinarily, the beautiful bird has survived in the
wretched, humid heat of this hellish place; it spreads its
wings and rises into the air. For a few moments Relem’s
faces are transfixed with confusion, then filled with hatred
and he flings magic into the air which smashes the bird into
a thousand fragments. But this has bought you time. You
can do one thing while Relem hesitates. You may nof eat a
meal, but you may drink a potion, cast a spell, use a magic
item or get a free strike at Relem (inflicting the usual 2
points of damage to his sTAMINA, or more if your Magic
Sword has received a special power against Demons from
Tagsaskil). Turn to 275

142
The hand reaches out eagerly for the warmth of life and
grabs your outstretched hand. You feel an intense chill

143-146

drain you of strength, Deduct 2 points from your STAMINA.
A faint, desperate cry for help now accompanies the moan,
You can stay and keep on holding the spirit’s hand (turn to
192) or give this up and flee, finding somewhere else to
search in the Ice Palace (tum to 23)

143
You must now roll two dice. If the total is less than or
equal to your SKILL, turn to 107. If the total is greater than
yYOUr SKILL, turn to 25.

144

You flee from the blows of the Elf-Ghost, and it does not
follow you outside the Tower of Shielding. But it does
strike you twice in the back. You must deduct 4 points
from your sTAMINA and 2 points from your sKILL. This
lost skiLt will come back in time: you may regain 1 SKILL
point after each of the next two combats (make a note of
this on your Adventure Sheet), Now you need to find
somewhere else to search; turn to 23,

145
“You are not careful to protect your honour,’ Elokinan says in
a tone of clear admonition, He pauses for a moment while
you have the decency to hang your head. ‘But you have done
a good service for my people in returning them to their rest. ]
judge you worthy to drink from the chalice.” Tum to 257

146
A Potion of Stamina, when drunk, allows you to regain lost
STAMINA up to one-half of your Jnitial sTAMINA total,

rounding all fractions up. A Potion of Skill, when drunk,

147-149

restores your SKILL to its Initia! level, A Potion of Luck,
when drunk, restores your LUCK to its Initial level, Any of
these potions can be drunk at any time except during a
combat. Turn back to 7.

147

Vast bolts of flame come shooting through the air from the
palms of Relem’s hands and hammering into the ground
around you. [f you have a magical ring, you know the
name of the person who last owned it. Take the letters of
that name, convert them to number values {A = 1, B = 2,
C = 3... Z = 26) and add up the total. Multiply that
total by 3, then turn to the paragraph which has the same
number, otherwise, turn to 269.

148
You stride along a narrowing passage which is intricately
carved and sculpted with motifs of Elven bowmen and
swordsmen: Ice Elves being drilled and marshalled. As you
step out, roll two dice and add their numbers. If the total
rolled is less than or equal to your skILL, turn to 281. If the
total is greater than your SKILL, turn to 161,

149

Suddenly something odd occurs. The outline of the wizard
appears to glow slightly with energy and he points both
hands at you. A blue dart spins through the air, screaming
as it moves, and strikes you. Deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA. The wizard laughs and prepares to cast another
spell. You can’t get to him because the huge Man-Orc
blocks your path. Fighting both of these enemies at once is
a desperately dangerous outlook, Think carefully! Will you:

;
150

Look quickly at the wizard to search for

a clue? Tum to 208
Look carefully at the Demon statue and

check for any clue? Turn to 350
Continue fighting the Man-Orc? Turn to §

150
Whoever crafted the sculptures in the gallery was a master
of his art, and you linger for a moment, appreciating his
work. You stand before the largest, with the name Mealin
etched below the noble face, admiring it especially and
wondering if this was the craftsmen himself

‘I was indeed the craftsman,’ the bust says to you. You step
back, startled. ‘Do not fear, I, who am speaking to you
now, am long dead. My spirit will be at peace, although
others here will lie uneasy in their cold tombs. They have
old sins to pay for, or errors which cost them dear. Zeverin’s
apprentice lies, entombed in an undying madness, in the
Black Tower; bringing him death would be an act of
charity, He is just one of the imprisoned souls unhappy in
death. Down in Elokinan’s catacombs, where only holders

IgI—152

of the Ice Keys can enter now, good spirits still dwell; but
there are others whose spirits have become twisted into
bitter, terrible forms, If you have any pity, stranger, that is
where you must look. For myself, I confess that I cared not;
] had my own concerns. But I might have something of use
to you, something to help you distinguish what is real and
what is illusion, If you are intelligent enough to be worthy
of it, that is.’ Turn to 14.

151

Zeverin needs just one spell. The fury of the frustrated
wizard is expended in a massive ball of energy which chars
the flesh from your bones, Your quest was successful, but
you have fallen af last.

152
The men are staring hard at the medallion. You decide to tell
the truth about finding it beside the bodies of some barbarians
killed by the Sphere, and you say that you are on a quest to
find and destroy the wizard who created the Sphere, You add
that the Sphere killed your own family, too, The barbarians
look at each other and decide that you are being truthful.
They indicate that they would like to have the medallion,

“95 55

since it is a token worn by their holy men, and you see no
reason to refuse. In return, they will give you either some
Provisions (add 4 to your Provisions) or a large brandy flask,
containing 2 doses, each of which will allow you to regain 4
lost STAMINA points, You may choose either gift, but you
can't have both. The barbarians also have a smail pot of
heated oil with them and a little Fuel with which they can make
a fire, so you can cook any raw meat you may have (and can
eat it now or keep it as Provisions). Finally, as the barbarians
leave on their superb flying mounts, one says that a trapper
was seen yesterday, heading north with his dogs and sled, and
that he should cross your path later today. Perhaps you
will be able to trade with him or ask him about local
landmarks and events. Then the barbarians fly off; turn to
240

153
You are very fortunate. You manage to find an open
entrance at the base of the Tower without any guards
spotting you — as far as you can tell! Tum to 266.

154
You walk away, retracing your footsteps; you then strike
out to the north-west to rejoin the trail left by the Sphere
You must eat a meal now. You find nowhere really secure
to sleep, and you have to rig up some shelter beside a rock
outcrop. You are too tense to relax and sleep well; deduct 2
points from your sTAMINA for having had inadequate rest,
and now you must eat another meal. Turn to 289.

>)
The problem with the valley is that here the snow is very

156-157

deep, and you often have to make detours around smow-
drifts, dig yourself out of snow-holes you have fallen into,
and generally lose time, You haven't gone far by the end of
the day; now you must eat another meak but at least 4
secure igloo can be made for sleeping in. In the morning,
you must eat another meal then set off yet again after
massaging your weary, cramp-afflicted leg-muscles. Turn to
113

156

The Dark Elf sniggers at you and throws a handful of Ice
Darts through the air at you. Roll one die and add 1 to the
number rolled. The total is the number of stTAMINa points
you must lose as the Ice Darts find their target. Now you
can either run and abandon the Great Tower (turn to 436)
or shout again to the Dark EIf to come down and fight
(turn to 234)

157
Nothing you do will fool the Ice Golem. lt knows you
aren't an Elf, and it attacks you. You must fight (tum to
333) or you can flee, deducting 2 points from your STAMINA
for taking a hit in the back, and search elsewhere (turn to

23)

158-160

158

It is upon you! The great evil within the Tower is revealed
to you The four-metre-tall winged figure hangs in mid-air
before you, tantalizingly out of sword reach, Its two black,
dragon’s heads are huge, dominating even its powerfully
muscled coppery-red body. The Night Demon, Relem, has
come for you! You are half paralysed with fear in the aura
of power and evil which radiates from this terrible monster.
Relem smiles savagely and flings its arms open wide; from
its massively muscled arms and claws magical bolts spray
out and circle around at your sides, Do you have a magical
Ice Sword? If you have, turn to 302. If you haven't, tum to
223

159
‘Leave the brooch here. There are spirits in the Palace who

will think you are an Elf-killer to have come by it, and they
will attack you. The brooch has no usefulness to you
anyway.’ You drop the brooch; turn to 355.

160

You draw your crossbow and loose off a bolt at the archer,
who you can now see is a Dark Elft Conduct combat as
normal; your enemy has a SKILL score of 8. After three
Attack Rounds and the expenditure of three of your cross-
bow bolts, however, the EIf will duck out of sight and you
will have to draw a sword and try to meet him in hand-to-
hand combat. No time to drink or eat anything either!
Make a note of how much damage to his stamina the
Dark EIf has suffered, then turn to 292.

161—164

161

You are so interested in the wall etchings that you walk
straight into a nasty magical trap. Three Elven swordsmen
etched into the ice momentarily come to life and strike at
you, one at your head, one at your legs, one at the small of
your back, The combined blows wind you and force you,
gasping, to the icy ground. Deduct 6 points fom your
STAMINA, If you want to continue, turn to 385, but if you
think better of it and prefer to retrace your steps, turn to 3.

162
The magical ring glows and protects you from the worst of
the fiery damage, but you stil] lose 2 points from your
STAMINA. Turn to 286

163

Heading towards the warehouses and stores, you see a set
of pearly-white ice steps cut into the ground, leading down
into a subterranean realm of frosted mists which obscure
visibility. The way down is barred by a pair of gates crafted
fram rods of ice This was obscured by a very strong
concealing illusion until you got within a few metres of it!
If you want to try to get past the gates and down the
steps, turn to 98. If you want to go on and explore some of
the stores and buildings, turn to 187.

164
You push open the doors leading to the highest level of the
Great Tower. The vaulted arches of the ceiling, the ringed
ice pillars, the light streaming in through coloured arcs of
thin ice in the roof ... all this impresses you greatly. It
seems as if the light is swirling here, creating strange

165-166

patterns on the floor and walls. You realize with astonish-
ment that the walls are covered with panels inscribed with
runes, as if the place was a library with every page of Elven
script engraved into the Tower itself! You are standing in
awe when a polite cough behind you disturbs your reverie.
The spirit form of a very old EIf, his hair as white as the ice
here, stands, looking at you politely. ‘We haven't long,’ he
says quietly, ‘and you've got a lot to learn, I’m afraid.’ If
you have a book, you know how many pages it has; if you
want to offer this book to the old EIf, tum to the paragraph
with the number that is the same as twice the number of
pages in the book, If you don’t have a book, or if you don't
want to hand it over, turn to 209.

165

The peculiar, Undead creature slumps forward. From its
gulping throat the spirit imprisoned within rises into the air
in a frosted wisp, a faint moan of torment left hanging in
the air by its passage. The Ice Ghost clutches at your legs
in a final convulsion and its filthy claws rake at your legs;
deduct 2 points from your stamina. If you are still alive,
return to §3 to finish fighting the other Ice Ghost.

166
You walk up to the spirit and try to speak in Elf-like tones,
mentioning the spirits you have seen and praising the
wondrous Ice Cathedral and the sights and glories of the
Ice Palace. The spirit seems confused and uncertain. Roll
two dice and add 1 to the total. If the adjusted total is less
than or equal to your sKILL, you fool the old Elf, and you
can walk past him to the crossroads: from here you can go
straight on (turn to 64), turn to the left (tum to 148), or to

167-168

the right (turn to 189). If the adjusted total is greater than
your SKILL, the spirit is not deceived and grows angry: you
must either run past him (turn to r7) or attack him; if you
choose to attack, turn to 341, but now you do not have to
lose the HONOUR as instructed in that paragraph

167

You ate in the dimly lit basement of the Tower of Airy
Light. Before you have time to do anything, a tiny creature,
looking like a miniature gnome or gremlin, has snaffled ane
of the items you were carrying! Chuckling with glee, the
cackling pest dives for the cover of the shadows Roll two
dice for yourself and the Ice Mite, and add your SKILL
scores (as if you were in combat; the Ice Mite has a SKILL
of 8). If you have the higher score, turn to arr. If the Ice
Mite has the higher score, turn to rog.

168

Having defeated your adversaries, you slump into one of
the throne chairs, gasping for breath. Then you look down
at the Man-Orc and decide you like the look of his
scimitar, so you take it. This is a Magic Sword, and you
may add xz to your sxitu when using it. This does permit
you to exceed your Initial skitt, unless your score was 12!
Now you examine the lever, the glowing gems and the
metal-chained whip, and you guess that these must fonn
some kind of control system for operating the Sphere
What on earth to do?

As you reach out, uncertainly, for the controls you hear a
muffled groan coming from your right. In the heat of battle
you hadn't noticed a heavy door there. But the groan

169-170

sounded as much like that of an animal as of a human; dare
you risk opening the door to see what is beyond (turn to
358), or will you ignore it and try tinkering with the
controls (turn to 89)?

169
‘That medallion is useful to you. When you see the Tower
appear outside, if you rub on the medallion gently, then the
mount shown upon it will come and take you to the
Tower. But you should also have some cover of invisibility,
if you can find it.” Now, if you have a silver brooch, tum to
159. If you don’t have this, turn to 355.

170
Falling slabs of ice strike you, injuring you, and you escape
just before a massive block falls and seals off the entrance
behind you. Deduct 4 points from your stamina. If you
are still alive, will you now:

Enter the passage opposite, if you

haven't been that way before? Turn to 200
Leave the Tower and search elsewhere? Tur to 23
Follow the stairs that lead upwards? Turn to 242

171-172

I7I
This is a very bad move. You open the door to a guardroom
where two bizarre creatures from the Demonic realms react
immediately to your intrusion. Their faces are completely
smooth, black and blank, and their cloaked and cowled
bodies shine black as ebony. The Nightgaunts scream for
help as they Aly at you to fight!

SKILL STAMINA
First NIGHTGAUNT 8 8
Second NIGHTGAUNT 8 8

The problem is that two more of these horrors appear from
the open doorway and attack from the opposite direction!

SKILL STAMINA
Third NIGHTGAUNT 8 8
Fourth NIGHTGAUNT 8 8

You have to fight four opponents! Mercifully, only two at a
time can attack you in this narrow passage, Each Attack
Round, roll two dice for yourself and for two of your
opponents; the combatant with the highest Attack Strength
wins that round (and inflicts damage to the stamina of the
opponent). When you kill one Nightgaunt, another takes its
place. When you kill a second, yet another takes ifs place
When you kill a third, you are left fighting one enemy
only. If you manage to survive all this, you decide to get
down the passageway and away from here fast, so hun to
LOT

172
Roll two dice and add 2. If the total is less than or equal to
your SkILL, tum to 1go. If the total is greater than your

173-174

SKILL, you fall part of the way and hurt yourself by
crashing into a rock; deduct 2 points from your STAMINA,
You soon see that you're not the only one to have fallen
down here! Turn to 248

173
Tassasla! places a last spell on the sword and says with
exhausted satisfaction, ‘Any Demon will fear this sword in
your hands!’ Note that you gain an extra bonus of 1 point
to your skILt when fighting any Demon. This adds to the
basic bonus from the Magic Sword, and makes it a very
powerful weapon against Demons! In addition, the sword
inflicts an extra point of damage on a Demon — your hits
reduce the Demon's sTAMINA by 3 points rather than the
usual 2 points, You are delighted, and thank Tassaskil for
his work, It’s time to leave and think about putting this
sword to good use. Turn to 94.

174
The Frost Giant will accept no less than 5 Gold Pieces as a
bribe to leave you alone. If you can pay this, you may
continue on your way along the valley (turn to 1§$) or cut
back up to the path above (tum to 132). If you cant, or
won't, pay the Frost Giant, you'll have to fight; turn to 226.

175-177

175

“You are not a man of honour, Elokinan says ina brusque tone
which brooks no contradiction. ‘I give you but the smallest
sip from the chalice; it will help you, but you will also learn
what you missed through your selfishness and lack of concern,
He dips his fingers into an amazingly complex silver and
quartz chalice on the table, then sprinkles just a few drops
aver you. You may regain up to 4 lost STAMINA points and
1 LUCK point, and you know it could have been so very, very
much more ... now Elokinan dismisses you and suddenly
you find yourself outside in the snow and ice. Turn to 309.

176
Coldwarding is a spell which protects you from magical
cold attacks. If you take this spell, you will be offered the
opportunity to use it later in the adventure, at appropriate
times, Return to 360

177
The barbarians don’t threaten you, but they don’t seem to
be favourably disposed when you speak of being on a

178

quest, ‘Another one on a quest,’ mutters one of them, ‘like
the one last week. Trampled by a mammoth, he was. Don’t
expect any different for you.’ Clearly he is unimpressed by
you, But at least they aren’t hostile, and they are prepared
to sell you food: 1 Gold Piece will buy enough for 2 meals,
and they will seli up to 3 Gold Pieces’ worth. If you buy,
adjust your Treasure and Provisions accordingly. Then the
barbarians fly off; turn to 240.

178
Your crossbow bolt is useless; Zeverin has a spell which
protects him against such missiles, deflecting them away
harmlessly, He gets a spell off at you while you're loading and
firing your bow. Another Lightning Bolt streams from his
fingertips, weaker than the first but stil] strong enough to drain
you of 3 points of STAMINA, Now what will you do? Will you:

Use a Potion of Flying, if you have one? Turn to 339
Fire your Wand of Cold at Zeverin (if

you have this)? Turn to 28
Cast a Coldwarding spell to protect

yourself, if you can? Turn to 85
Gnp your sword and wait for a chance

to fight? Turn to 372

179-180

179

You continue your work until your back and arms ache
with the effort. Gain 2 HONOUR point, but now you must
sit and eat a meal. Just as you get up to finish repairing the
last few tombs, you espy another Elf-Ghost flying to the
attack! You try to point to your work, but this wretched
spectre must be half-crazed too, for it will not listen. Its
pale, wasted form strikes out implacably at you. Again, you
are forced to ight

ELF-GHOST SKILL 8 STAMINA 9

If you win, you may complete your work here ., . but how
many more times will you be attacked? Can you endure
such assaults? You could not be blamed for heading off
elsewhere now. If you want to do this, turn to 3. If you are
content to go on toiling here, turn fo 21.

180
The Ice Bird’s head lifts from under its wing and the
creature bursts into song! It trills a few bars, beautifully, and
then tucks its head back under its wing again. You are
mystified by this; but this magical bird obviously has some
purpose in the Ice Palace. Another curious fact: its wings
are now resplendent with rainbow patterns in its ice feathers

18r

—there are ten ramnbow arcs, each of seven coloured rays, in
either wing (make a note of this), Taking the Ice Bird with
you, you leave this tower and search elsewhere. Turn to 23.

181

Zeverin hurls a glowing blue ball of magical power at you
You know for certain that it’s going to kill you, so you just
pray that death will be swift and that you will feel little
pain. You grip your sword, not because you can fight —
Zeverin is too far away — but simply as a reflex And from
the sword the magic drains, forming into a shimmering
pool of light between you and Zeverin. An Elven figure
forms within this pool, tall and bright with light; and a
wave of his hand dissipates Zeverin’s spell into nothingness
If you have met Elokinan, you recognize the great Elven
lord. If you have not met him before, you know you are in
the presence of a spirit of great power and charisma!

Elokinan’s hands open gently and a cage of yellow bars of
light forms round Zeverin, who howls in rage and frustra-
tion. ‘Begone, the Elf-Lord whispers softly. ‘There is a
prison for you for all eternity,’ and the cage and the wizard
fade into nothingness. Tum to 400,

182-183

182
You land and attack the skeletal creature, which rends at
you with its powerful claws!

DEMONIC SERVANT SKILL 8 STAMINA 7

If you manage to win two Attack Rounds in a row, the
Demonic Servant will collapse into a pile of mouldering
bones! If you win, turn to 266.

183
You climb up the black stone steps to a Janding, where you
find a heavy door on one side and no other exits. You
listen at the door, but can hear nothing. You decide to
open it, Test your Luck: if you are Lucky, turn to 39; if you
are Unlucky, turn to 313.

184-187

184

‘Bless you, friend, the man croaks, and he does his best to
keep up with you, limping along at your side as the Sphere
begins to shake itself apart. You get outside just as the
Sphere begins to rumble and crack, and as you run you can
feel the heat of the reddening Sphere on your back. You are
only half-way to safety when the Sphere explodes. Your
weakened friend is lucky — but you get struck on the head
by a lump of rock; deduct 4 points from your STAMINA. If
you are still alive, turn to 321

185
You wade through the sticky strands, which have an
insidious effect on you: they seem to sap your strength and
weaken you. You must reduce your skILL temporarily by 1
point until after your next combat (make a note of this on
your Adventure Sheet), But you do force your way through
to the inner chamber. Turn to 334.

186
The Dark EIf laughs as he casts a spell upon himself,
dodges your missile, and flies down to attack you with his
dagger. Turn to 272.

187
You glance inside some deserted and empty warehouses
and storage buildings. There’s nothing of any value or
interest to you inside the first few you come to, but you
persist with your search Roll one die. If you roll z or 2,
tur to 131. If you roll any other number, tum to 347

188-190

188

Suddenly, and without any warning, a heavy boulder rolls
down and pinions your arm, haif crushing it. You bite back
a cry of pain; luckily the arm isn‘t broken, but it’s badly
bruised and very painful. Deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA, and 1 point from your sxIuL. The loss of sxILL is
temporary: lost sx1it will retum after 4 days of adventuring
(make a note of this on your Adventure Sheet). Turn to 86.

189
Do you have a silver amulet? If you have, you know the
name of its original owner, Convert the letters in his name
into numbers (A = 1,B = 2,C = 3...Z = 26) and add
them together. Multiply the total by 5, and tum to the
paragraph with that number. If you don’t have the silver
amulet, turn to 88.

- 190
You scramble easily down the slope and observe a semi-
conscious figure spread awkwardly on the ground You go
over to see how he is; turn to 248.

I9I=192

1gI
You edge along the side passage, looking for an alternative
route, You see that, beyond an archway hidden in a tuming
in the passage, it is possible to walk round the edge of the
circle of darkness, so you may be able to skirt round it
However, you must Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, tum
to 42. If you are Unlucky, turn to 210.

192

The hand holds on to you for 3 rounds, so you must
deduct 6 points from your stamina. If you are still alive,
the hand suddenly loosens its grip with a sigh of pleasure
at the release. The spirit form of an EIf floats up gently
from the mass of twisted steel and ice and blesses you for
releasing it from its torment. It explains that it had crafted a
great magical sword for one of the mightiest Ice Elf warriors;
so, when Zeverin struck at the Ice Elves, he imprisoned this
Elf here in punishment. The spirit does not know why it
should have incurred such wrath, but perhaps Zeverin fears
the sword in some way. The sword is in the ice Cathedral,
and the spirit is about to tell you more when it begins to
fade. Bowing its head, it blesses you for releasing it. Gain 1
HONOUR point and a Luck point, Now, will you:

Leave and search the armourer’s

workshop? Tur to 30
Leave and search the jeweller’s workshop,
if you haven't done this already? Tum to 218

Leave and search some other part of the
Ice Palace? Turn to 23

1937195

193
The final blow has been struck, and the demonic fonn is

banished, with an ear-piercing scream of fury and frustra-
tion. You are dizzy from the heat and your own exhaustion;
you can hardly stand, and blood is welling up from foul
claw-rakes on your body, But you have slain and banished
the earthly form of a Night Demon, an act which very few
of the greatest warriors Titan has ever known could boast of!

Yet you still cannot relax, The fires of the Tower are
beginning to cool: the huge central pillar of fame suddenly
alters shape most dramatically, Instead of pouring down
into the vortex, it cascades out from within the magical
swirl and forms a complete ring round the room. There is
no way out! What will you do now? If you want to study
the magical vortex for any clues or help, turn to 346. If you
want to run out through the ring of fire, and you have a
magical ring, turn to 293. If you want to run out through the
ring of fire, and you don’t have a magical ring, turn to 247.

194

You know that a Fire Elemental can destroy at once any
weapon you may have, so there’s nothing you can do but
flee, Roll one die and subtract 1; this is the number of
blows you will suffer from the Elemental as it chases you
out of here and back up the steps. Each blow inflicts 2
points of damage to your sTAMINA, If you are still alive,
turn to 324.

195
You're going to be lucky to get out of here alive. Roll two dice
and add their scores, The total is the number of blows you

suffer before you can escape, each one causing 2 points of

196

damage to your STAMINA, If you are still alive, you can add
the Ice Keys — there are forty-four of them, so make a note of
this number — to your possessions as you manage to slam the
doors of the great Cathedral behind you, You cannot return
here! Find somewhere else to visit in the Ice Palace (turn to 23)

196

You burst open the door of the Tower and race up the
stairs to where the Dark Elf sniper is lurking. You have to
push open a trapdoor at the top of the winding stairs to
get into the open air, and the Dark Elf is able to fire one
bolt at you at point-blank range; you lose 4 points from
your STAMINA. He draws a sword and flies at you, grinning
madly, his ebony skin and dark leather armour a stark
contrast to the whiteness of the ice and the cloudy, snow-
filled sky overhead. If you have already inflicted any
damage on the Dark Elf with a crossbow, you can subtract
this from his sTAMINA score given below.

DARK ELF SKILL & STAMINA 7

If you win, tur to 229.

197-200

197

Standing, at the anvil is an Elf-spirit who positively radiates
power. Stronger of build than most of his kin, the spirit
seems to wear the exquisitely fine chainmail he wore in life.
He stands straight and tall, and his ghostly eyes gaze
deeply into yours. If your HONOUR score is 6 or less, turn
to 217. If it is between 7 and 11 inclusive, turn to 6. If it is
12 or higher, turn to 343.

198
The Elf-spirit dispatches his whirring, flying butterfly knives
at you. Deduct 2 points from your sTAM!INA. Now you
must fight; turn to 359.

199
The Man-Orc collapses in a bloodied heap at your feet —
but there’s still the hateful wizard to defeat! He pulls out

a dagger to stab you.
WIZARD SKILL 8 STAMINA &

If you win, something very odd happens: the wizard has no
body to fall to the ground with a satisfying thud .. . his
form simply fades away — he wasn’t real Turn to 168.

200
At the threshold of this chamber you see a huge number of
multicoloured ice stalactites hanging from a ceiling, partly
obscured by a floating icy mist. There are dim resonances
of music within the chamber, faint echoes of long-dead
voices and song. On a platform inside the chamber, in the
very middle, is a beautifully sculpted bird, motionless, its
head tucked under one of its ice wings. Its claws hold a

nC ______
200

book bound in brown leather. You want to enter here, but
you step forward into an unyielding magical barvier: nothing
you do can penetrate it. Then you notice several symbols
etched into one side of the doorway, and you quickly
decipher them into a series of numbers. This sequence is:
zero, 1, 10, 35, 84, 205; below this sequence is a seventh
row — empty. If you can work out the last number correctly,
you may be able to gain entrance to this chamber. If you
know the final number in the sequence, you can carve that
number into the ice and enter the chamber: tum to the
paragraph with the same,number as the final number in this
sequence. If you can’t work this out, you can:

Leave here and enter the left-hand
passage, if you haven’t done so

before Turn to 351
Leave the Rainbow Tower and search

somewhere else. Turn to 23
Climb the stairs, Turn to 242

201-203

201

You open the tomb and take the Ice Sword from the hands
of the EIf. It isn’t magical, but you have a strong intuition
that it has great latent power, Add it to your Possessions
(and note that it isn’t magical). You must lose 1 HONOUR
point for tomb-robbing, however, Now you can choose to
open another tomb (turn to rox) or perform some other
action (turn to 137). XA

202

Your bolt strikes home and ruins the Dark Elf’s spell. Make
a note that you have struck the Dark Elf with one of your
crossbow bolts. Now the hateful Elf is casting a further
spell, and you have to roll dice for your Attack Strength
and his once more. If you have the higher Attack Strength,
turn to g, If he has the higher Attack Strength, turn to 186,

You are swept off the mountain by the avalanche and
crushed to death on the rocks below. A tragic end to a
promising adventure!

204-206

204

The stranger comes closer and begins to weave an enchant-
ment. You stare at the figure both in recognition and in
utter disbelief, Zeverin! How many times do you have to
kill this monster? Twice now he has cheated you, with
illusions and clones of himself, but now the real wizard is
upon you. His power is tangible even at some distance.
You know that he’s going to kill you and that you don’t
stand a chance. Do you have a magical Ice Sword? [f you
have, turn to 181. If you haven’t, turn to 151,

205

The dragon keeps on flying for an hour or so until it
reaches the steep valley where the Sphere lies, still smoking
and spurting fire. Your ‘mount’ lands, a little way from the
Sphere, and two strange and evil creatures stumble towards
you; they look like blue-skinned, frozen Zombies, and they
horrify you. The dragon likes them a lot, though. It rises
into the air, swoops down, bites their heads off, and picks
them up in its claws. ‘Two frozen dinners, thanks a lot!’ it
says. It looks at you meaningfully for a moment, and then
shakes its head. ‘No, I mustn’t have any more, I'll get fat.
The dragon disappears into the distance with its prizes.
Tum to 297.

206
You scout round the back of the cabin, past a toolshed and
an outhouse, looking out for anything unusual, You ap-
proach the back door on tiptoe, and there is an unmistak-
able smell of buming: a sulphurous stench which catches in
your throat and makes your eyes water. You take a chance
and fling open the door, lunging with your sword at the

207-209

Smoke Demon which you now see is behind it. Your
weapon strikes home; turn to 13 to finish the fight, and you
may subtract 2 points from the sTAMINA given for the
monster in that paragraph.

207
‘You are not wise, although your heart is good,’ Elokinan
says sadly. “You passed by opportunities which should
have been grasped, for the need was great enough But
drink of the draught you need,’ He raises his hands; turn to

257

208
The wizard seems to be only partly real, but there’s nothing
about him to indicate why, The Man-Orc misses a swing at
you while you're looking, but the wizard sends another
dart your way; lose 2 more points from your STAMINA.
Turn back to 149 to decide what to do!

209
The old EI£ Lefarel, is beginning to fade. He is weak with
age, even as a spirit, but his will shines brightly in his spirit
form, and he still has a fittle time with you, He can tell you
what he knows about one — and only one — of the
following topics. Make your choice from the list below, and
read the paragraph indicated

Zeverin and his weakness. Turn to 323
Control of the Tower of Destruction, Tum to 231
Elven magic in the Ice Palace Tum to 69

nee

ZIO—211

210

Unfortunately, your somewhat leaden steps or heavy in-
drawing of breath must have alerted a guard here, From
further along the passage a great, black, bat-like creature is
swooping down towards you. Its claws are extended as if
on forearms jutting from its wings, and the teeth in its
broad mouth are savagely sharp and backwards-pointing,
the better to rend flesh. The Demonbat’s hot, foetid breath
is an your back as you whirl around to fight the monster!

DEMONBAT SKILL 8 STAMINA 10

If you win, you can backtrack and enter the darkness (turn
to 4149) or move cautiously round the edge of the circle of
darkness {burn to 12)

211
You take a swipe at the Ice Mite and smear the little horror
all over the floor. It disintegrates into ice crystals — but,
even as you look down at them, they slowly begin to
reassemble themselves! You take back the item the Mite
stole from you. (However, if you met the Ice Mite earlier
and it took something of yours, you do not recover the first
item you lost!) This gloomy basement clearly has nothing
of interest in it, so will you now enter:

The red beam? Turn to 252
The blue beam? Turn to 274
The beam of pure darkness? Turn to 72
The green beam? Tum to 364

212~213

212
You set off in a northerly direction, hoping that the creature
flying around behind you won't notice you. Now you must
Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, you can press on north-
wards; tum to §3. If you are Unlucky, the creature flies
down to investigate you, so turn to 250.

213

You begin the laborious work of laying the Elven bodies to
rest and repairing their graves as best you can, But soon
after you begin you feel a cold presence behind you, and
you tum around to see a grey, wispy Elf-Ghost flying
towards you, its arms extended to strike at your face, You
sense the Elf-Ghost is quite insane, perhaps driven mad by
whatever destroyed the resting-place of its physical body
So you are farce to fight it.

ELF-GHOST SKILL 8 STAMINA 9

If you win, what will you do? You've done a fair bit of
repair work here: you could Jeave and go elsewhere without
being dishonourable, If you want to do this, turn to 3. If
you prefer fo continue here, turn to 179.

214-216

214
After fighting the guardian, you look around and inspect
the serried ranks of dead young Elves in their frozen
resting-places. There isn’t anything of value here, and you're
not sure whether you'd want to take anything from the icy
tombs of these sad-looking young Elves anyway. You leave
and search elsewhere in the Ice Palace. Tum to 23,

215
Perhaps the Tower of Destruction will pass you by... but
someone aboard the Tower seems to have other ideas.
Snaking down from the sky comes a whirring lasso of
burning magical flame which wraps round you and drags
you upwards to a tower entrance, where a cloaked skeletal
form with burning red eyes waits to rend you with iron-
hard hands. You must deduct 4 points from your sTAMINA
because of the pain of the fire, untess you have a magical
ring (in which case you suffer no damage from the frre)
Turn to 182

216
Unrolling your fur blanket, you settle down to sleep in the
deserted clump of pines. Roll one die. If you roll 1 or 2,
turn to 340. If you roll any other number, you enjoy a
peaceful and uneventful night's sleep, so turn to 289.

217-218

217
The spirit turns away from you, 1 will give you no help.
Elokinan will be your judge, and, ignoring anything you
may say, Tassaskil fades back into the spirit realm from
which he was drawn by your approach. There is nothing
for you here. Turn to 3,

A fin)

218

You stride into the jeweller’s workshop — and just manage
to avoid bumping into a Dark Elf rummaging through some
boxes and cloths in the far corner of the room! The evil Elf
at once waves his hands and mutters the words of an
incantation: he is no ordinary Dark Elf! Roll dice to deter-
mine the Attack Strength scores of both of you as usual in
combat (this Dark Elf has skttt 9). If you have the higher
Attack Strength, turn to 389. If the Dark Elf has the higher
Attack Strength, turn to 245.

219-220

219

You open the door as quickly as you can but you don’t
outwit the fast-reacting monster. In a trice it hurls the
glowing rock it is holding right at you! You duck, but
you're off balance and the monster is able to get a free hit
at you Deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA. Now you
have to hope you're good enough to fight this strange
enemy.

BRIMSTONE GOLEM SKILL 8 STAMINA 11

If you win, the Golem shatters into chunks of stone which
fly everywhere. Roll two dice; if the total is less than or
equal to your skILL, you dodge the flying shards. If the
total is greater than your skILL, you get hit by a Flint;
deduct 2 points from your STAMINA. If you're still alive, a
quick search reveals only one item of interest: a gold
nugget from one rock, worth 5 Gold Pieces (add this ta
your Treasure}

The aperture in the wail suddenly flares brightly and begins
to pulsate. You wonder if the Golem stopping work has
been noticed somewhere; time to get a move on! Will you:

Try clambering into the wall aperture? Turn to §§
Leave, return to the junction, and take
the middle path? Turn to 279
Leave, return to the junction, and take
the left-hand path? Tum to 37
220

While you are distracted, the Man-Orc hits you and you
lose 2 points from your STAMINA, If you are still alive, you
are now able to smash the gem ... and the wizard begins

221

to fade away! You realize that he cannot have been fully
real, His expression changes to one of fury, and the Man-
Orc redoubles his efforts to all you. You must fight to the
death with the Man-Orc, but you don’t have to worry
about the wizard any more, If you defeat the Man-Orc,
turn to 168

221
In the dark chamber are a number of ice-crystal sculptures,
too delicate and too bulky to carry, and also some wind
instruments made of glazed and etched ice, These bear a
sheen, as if lacquered in some way, and strike you as very
odd. There is also a black robe on a peg; protruding from
one of the pockets of the robe is a slender tube of grey
metal. You decide to take this and look at it. As you do so,
the robe flies te attack you! You have to fight it, When it
has hit you twice, it will wrap itself round your face and
choke you! This has two effects: first, you will automatically
lose 1 point of sTAMINA every Attack Round until you can
destroy the robe; second, you must subtract 4 point from
your SKILL score until you have destroyed the robe. In fact,
this is no robe but a Cloak Haunt, a magical monster which
camouflages itself to surprise and prey on the unsuspecting
Your body warmth has stirred it from hibernation and may
yet warm its guts for a rich meal!

CLOAK HAUNT SKILL 8 STAMINA 9

If you win, you take the tube. When you open it, you find
a length of slender wood inside. This is a Wand of Cold,
and you may use it in combat. It has only 1 charge left, but
if you attack an enemy using this wand instead of a sword,
it will inflict 5 points of damage on that enemy! Add it to

222-223

your list of Possessions. Now you continue along the
passageway outside this chamber; turn to 88

222

As you are scrabbling away, a large bundle of very hostile
fur and claws comes snuffling round the corner The battle-
scarred wolverine is hungry and savage, and is known as a
maniacal attacker with razor-sharp claws and teeth. Worse
still, the horror at once sprays musk over you: filthy,
reeking, skunk-like stuff. You must subtract 1 point from
your skitt for the duration of this combat only, nauseated
by the stench as you are. The powerful wolverine closes in
for the kill, frothing at the mouth and eager for the taste of
your blood!

GIANT WOLVERINE SKILL 10 STAMINA Q

If you win, you can continue searching through the homes
of the Ice Elves (turn to 263) or go back and find somewhere
else to search in the Ice Palace (turn to 23}.

223
The bolts cut and lacerate one side of your body; deduct 4
points from your STAMINA. Now, do you have a Shield of
Warding? If you have, turn to 236. If you haven't, turn to
130.

224-226

224
You struggle through snow at half shin-height; it is hard
work, physically draining. By late aftemoon, you must eat a
meal. After brushing the last crumbs of bread from your
frost-rimed furs, you press on again. Suddenly, from your
left, you hear a deep rambling coming from a snowdrift.
You half panic: it cannot be an avalanche, it's too far from
the mountains ._. It isn’t an avalanche. Erupting from the
snow is a monstrous, grey-furred Polar Worm, a hungry
and aggressive predator, The power of its massive jaws is
said to be great enough to rip a horse in two! But if isnt
locking directly at you, #9 maybe you can run and hide
behind some heavy drifts near by. Will you attack the

monster (turn to 382) or run for cover (turn to 20)?

225

You've no idea what to say, so you say something ludicrous
No one in their right mind would think a White Dragon
would like fire in any form, and maybe this creature is a pet
of the evil wizard! It’s really foolish to continue by saying,
‘There are much better meals than me along this trail to the
smoky valley — I can show you lots of people to eat!’
Unbelievably, the dragon falls for it. ‘Really? Let's go and
have a look then,’ it says, wagging its tail and inviting you
to climb aboard, A mixture of disbelief and relief floods
through you, and you clamber on to the dragon and fly up
and away. Gain 1 Luck point! Turn to 205,

226
The sneering Frost Giant clearly thinks you will be easy
meat. It is up to you to teach him otherwise!
2297-229
FROST GIANT SKILL 10 STAMINA 10
If you win, burn to 60.

227
You rise into the air, just out of range of the Great Golem’s
massive fists. You could try one of several options now.

Will you:

Try to fly past the Golem to the stairs

opposite? . Turn to 367
Let fly at the Golem with some crossbow
bolts, if you can? Turn to 241
Leave a Stone Jaguar on the ground to
fight for you, if you have one? Turn to 353
228

You open the tomb and reach in for the wand, but the
wood had turned brittle and rotted in the cold and damp,
and it snaps in your hand. It is useless to you. Lose 1
HONOUR point for tomb-robbing. You can choose to open
another tomb (retum to 1oz to select one you haven't
opened yet) or perform some other action (tum to 137).

229
The Dark Elf has something which you decide to take; a
beautifully decorated Shield of Warding, a magical shield,
This will often deflect missiles — crossbow bolts, rocks,
thrown spears and the like — away from the user of the
shield so that these attacks cause no damage. This applies
even to magical missiles conjured by spells which have the
word ‘bolt’ in their name — you should make a note of this

230

in case you get hit by one at some time in the future! If you
use the shield, you may roll two dice when such an attack
is used against you. If you roll 2-8, the shield will deflect
the attack and you will suffer no damage. If you roll 9 or
above, the shield will not deflect the attack and you will
suffer damage as instructed in the relevant paragraph.

You find that the rooms in the Tower itself have obviously
been looted. Doors are knocked down. and ice decorations
and sculptures smashed and defaced. Searching the Tower,
you discover a sealed ice door at the base of the Tower
which bears some Elven runes you cannot read. This seems
to be the only part of the place that hasn’t been desecrated;
there is a periodic groaning sound coming from the other
side of the door. Do you want to try opening this door
(turn to 277) or do you think better of it and find some-
where else to search (turn to 23)?

230
Most of the dark-skinned servants of Zeverin simply want
to make good their escape, but the slim, robed figure turns
on you with a snarl and draws his sword. After everything
you have endured, to be forced to fight again ... Fortu-
nately, the man doesn’t look strong, but he is swift and you
must avoid the cutting edge of his weapon!

TOWER SERVANT SKILL 8 STAMINA 7

If you win, you take one of the magical harnesses, put it on,
and jump through the archway into space. Now you must
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, tum to 330. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 259.

231-232

231

‘| have leamt something of the Tower from servants of our
spirits far, far away. The heart of the Tower is beyond the
Blackwall in its centre, and here its demonic controller
organizes the forces which propel it and cause destruction
below it. The controller is a great Demon of immortal
power and force; a mortal opponent must have the most
powerful magic created here to have any hope of banishing
him! The Tower is already heading for Allansia and will not
be delayed long. You will not need to walk from this spot
to find it; it is the place, Zeverin wishes to destroy first
You will need to be able to fly to reach the Tower,
however.’ Tum to 255

232

You know better than to pick up a whip or sword of a
Demon: among the rubble and mibbish in this chamber,
however, you find a meta! chest, warm to the touch but
which you can open safely, While you are doing so you
hear sounds coming from one of the walls, a humming and
throbbing, and what sounds like the crunch of metal striking
metal and a shouted curse. The control room, or the
leaders, of this contraption must be on this level! If only
there were a door here ~ but there isn’t, only the one you
came in by.

Returning to the chest, you grab 6 Gold Pieces and a flask
of dark fiquid; this is a Potion of Fire Breath, You can drink
this at any time (except during combats) and, in the first
combat you come to afterwards, for three Attack Rounds
you will be able to breath fire at the same time as using a
weapon. Each AHack Round, you must roll one die; on a

233

roll of 1-4 your breath wil] strike your enemy and cause 2
points of damage to its stAMINA (on a roll of 5 or 6, you
missl). This must be done in the first combat you have after
drinking this potion Fire Breath won't hurt Fire Elementals
or Demons, though! If you want to take this potion, add it
to your list of Possessions

You leave here and take the stairs down to the next floor.
You decide that there’s no point in heading further down —
you want to find a way back up. You head along the
corridor to the point where you first came to the main
junction, Standing facing in the same direction as when you
entered, do you want to try the Jeft-hand turning (tum to
37) or the right-hand turning (turn to 118)?

233

In the smashed-up and scorched main room of the log cabin
an old man lies, gasping for breath, his singed robes half
covering his clawed and wounded frail body. He is clearly
beyond your help, but he beckons you to him. ‘Deron,’ he
gasps, ‘servant of Zeverin. Madman, bringing the Hells to
this world .,. fiery Sphere his. Servants ... mindless.
Demons, spawn of life-in-death Terrible, pitiless ... Ice
Palace. The answer is in the Ice Palace.’ His eyes stare
wildly at you; his death is upon him. ‘Bottom drawer of
desk ... magic, help ...’ He is about to say more, clawing
at your arm with his right hand, when he slumps back in
your arms, dead.

Tasrin is wearing a simple silver ring; it is of no further use
to him now, so you take it {add Tasrin’s Ring to your
Possessions). Laying his body down, you go over to the

234

desk and find the key to open the bottom drawer. Inside is
a potion bottle — this contains a single Potion of Stamina
When you drink it, you recover sTAMINA points equal to
half your Initial total, rounding fractions up (so that, if your
Initial STAMINA was 19, drinking this potion could give
you back up to 10 points of lost stamina), You cannot
exceed your Initial sTAMINA by drinking this pation. You
may drink this at any time except during combat, A pouch
of 3 Gold Pieces is here too (add this to your Treasure).
You also find sufficient Provisions for 4 meals in the
kitchen here.

It's now late in the day; after you have buried the sage’s
body as best you can, you lock the doors, bolt the windows,
and sleep here. Next moming you head off northwestwards
to get back on the trail of the Sphere. Turn to 354.

234
The Dark EIf casts two more spells, the first upon himself,
then a Lightning Bolt which causes 5 points of damage to
your STAMINA! If you’re still alive, it’s too Jate to run. He's
flying down and he aims to kill you with his dagger! Turn
to 272.

235-236

235

The afternoon passes slowly; you soon work up a sweat as
you stumble along paths littered with treacherous rocks half
hidden under a blanket of snow. The smoky, hazy valley of
the Sphere seems never to get any closer, and you haven't
made much progress by nightfall. But you do manage to
find a cave, and within it is a little dry wood, a flint and
some tinder. You bless the traveller who left this here for
others to find, and soon you have a small fire cheering you
with its warmth. You can even warm the Provisions you
use for the mea] you must eat here, Soon the warmth of the
fire makes you doze off, and you get a good night's rest.
Turn to 308.

236
The other arc of magical bolts spreads out around the
shield, which flares brightly; then the bolts disintegrate into
nothingness! Relem looks furious and prepares to dive at
you; turn to 147

es =
237-240

237
The wisps of smoke form into vaguely humanoid form, and
the creature radiates hatred and malice. It glides over
towards you and tries to choke the life out of yout!

SMOKE WRAITH SKILL 8 STAMINA 9

If you win, you may enter the spherical chamber and search
it thoroughly (tum to 7x) or return to the original three-
way junction (tum to 379).

238
Unfortunately the small silver object seems to be repelled
from you and moves away through the air. No matter how
fast you fly, you can’t get at it. You'll either have to solve
the puzzle (turn back to 14 if you want to see the clock-
faces again) or enter one of the light beams (turn to 300).

239
The Elf-spirit flings the whirring, buzzing blades at you,
causing 2 points of damage to your STAMINA, You are
forced to fight. Turn to 359

240
After a further two hours or so, you hear some howling
and snarling, and a scream echoes from behind some rocks
to your south. Obviously, an unpleasant fight is going on
there, with a lot of creatures — which sound as if they could
be wolves — involved. Will you dash off and enter the fray
(turn to 36x) or sneak quietly past and keep going on your
way {turn to 10)?

241-242

241
Only magical bolts are of any use against the Great Golem
If you have any of these, you must still roll two dice and
add 2 each time you fre one. If the total you roll is less
than or equal to your sxILt, you hit the Golem and inflict
damage to its staMINA. If the total you roll is greater than
your SKILL, you miss the swerving Golem. You can fire all
the magical bolts you have without the Golem being able
to retaliate. Make a note of how many points of damage to
its STAMINA you inflict on it. Jf you manage to inflict 16 or
more points of damage, you have destroyed it; tum to 87.
Otherwise, when you've finished firing at the Golem, will

you:

Go down to fight, hand-to-hand? Tum to 296
Try to fly past it to the stairs opposite? Tum to 367
Place a Stone Jaguar on the ground to

finish the Golem off, if you have one? Tum to 353

242
You clamber on to the last icy step, carefully minding how
you go all the way up, and find yourself in the airy ceiling
dome of the Tower of Rainbow Ice. Above you, the roof is
lost in what appear to be clouds and sky, which must surely
be a magical illusion of some kind, The floor and walls are
of frosted ice, and there is little of interest here — save for a
single object hanging from the ceiling. From the ‘clouds’
hangs a metal chain, on the end of which is a bronze
incense-burner, hanging some seven metres up in the air
There is, you now notice, a faint smell of incense in this
chamber. If you don’t want to get the incense and burner,
you set off back down the stairs; tum to 57. If you want

243-244

the incense, there are various possibilities for lowering the
incense-bumer to a point where you can get it. Will you

try:

Using a crossbow bolt (if you have one)

to sever the chain? Turn to 394
Using a Potion of Flying (if you have

one) to get at the incense-bumer? Turn to 22
Using a Linkcut spell (if you know one)

to sever the chain? Turn to 249

If you have none of the above, there’s nothing you can do
here, so you have to leave and take the stairs back down:
turn to §7.

243
The ring protects you from the worst of Relem’s fiery
onslaught, but against Demon Magic the ring can’t wholly
save you. Roll one die; this is the number of points of
STAMINA you lose. Relem is on you now, and you must
draw your sword and fight for your life and soul! If you
have an Ice Bird, turn to 141. If you haven't, turn to 275.

244
The grizzly is a large, battle-scarred bear, some three
metres tall on its treetrunk-thick hind legs. It has seen off

the vicious, snarling timber wolves of these lands many

245-247

times, and this shaggy monster pits its raking talons and
brute power fearlessly against youl

GRIZZLY BEAR SKILL 9 STAMINA 12

If you win, you go back to sleep. You awaken to a fresh,
cold morning; turn to 289.

245
A small cloud of stinking, noxious yellow gas flies out of
the Dark Elf’s hands across the room, and catches you full
in the face. Your eyes stream with tears and, coughing and
spluttering, you are weakened. You must fight the first four
rounds of the combat with your sKILL reduced by 2 points!
Turn to 35.

246

You set off into the increasingly mountainous terrain of the
Icefinger Mountains. This is not hard work, and you must
stop and eat two meals during the day. But no hazards or
enemies beset you, and that night you sleep peacefully in a
rock gully. Next day, you must eat another meal at breakfast
time, Then your trek continues, and by mid-morming you
are faced with a choice of two routes to your destination:
will you take the safe, broad, valley route (turn to 40) or go
along a rocky path which winds its way higher up the rock
face {turn to 16)?

247
The superhot fire sears your skin and inflicts terrible damage
on you. Deduct 10 points from your sTAMINA! If you are
still alive, you rush out through the chamber where the
chilling webs are melting away, round the edge of the

248-249

sphere of darkness, and find yourself at the junction of two
passages. One leads back and down to the Golem room,
the other into a part of the Tower you haven't visited yet.
The shaking of the Tower tells you you must hurry! Will you
head for the Golem room (tum to 19) or take the other

passage (turn to 38)?

248
The half-conscious man lying here is a focal, a fur-clad
barbarian, Judging by the bloodied feathers at his belt, he’s
a clansman of the Bloodied Eagle tribe, one not noted for
its friendly attitude to outsiders. But he is in pain, concussed
and with an ugly wound to his head. He’s very shaky and
vulnerable. Will you:

Dress his wound and then leave him,

climbing back up to the trail? Turn to 235
Clean his wound and stay with him to
make sure he’s all right? Turn to go
Kill him and steal his belongings? Turn to 117
249

You cast your spell and the heavy metal chain snaps with a
loud noise. You hurry forward to catch the falling {and
heavy!) incense-burner. Now you must roll two dice: if the
total is less than or equal to your sKILL, you catch it safely;
if the total is greater than your sKiL, you catch the
incense-burner safely — but it hits you hard in the chest,
and you must deduct 2 points from your stamina. Either
way, add the incense-burner to your Possessions. Now you
leave and descend the stairs; turn to 57.

250-254

250
Circling around to land in front of you is a small White
Dragon — small by dragon standards, but very, very big by
yours. It eyes you disdainfully. ‘Can you think of a good
reason why I shouldn’t have some nice iced human for tea?’
it asks laconically. What will you do in this situation?

Offer the dragon Gold Pieces (if you

have some)? Turn to 276
Attack the dragon? Turn to 122
Try some brilliant conversational gambit? Tur to 362

251
Do you have a mark on your forehead? If you have, turn to
264. If you haven't, turn to 128.

252
The beam chills you as you enter it, and it hurts like crazy!
Deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA for the pain and shack.
The beam has dumped you outside the Tower of Airy Light.
You can re-enter at ground-floor level (turn to 381) or find
somewhere else to search in the Ice Palace (turn to 23).

253
The Eif-spirit dexterously flings the whirring butterfly

knives through the air at you. Deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA, and you must fight, so tum to 359.

254
The creator of the Sphere has had extra time in which to
create guardians and monsters here; one of them lunges at
you as soon as you open the secret door. It takes you by

Ye _ _ ee ee ______—"

2§ 5-256

surprise, SO you must deduct 2 points from your STAMINA
because of its unexpected attack. The expressionless face of
a Zombie stares at you; since its body, that of a northern
barbarian, has not yet decomposed, it is tougher than most
Zombies!

BARBARIAN ZOMBIE SKILL 7 STAMINA 9
If you win, turn to 135.

255
Lefarel is trying hard to tell you more before his spirit

fades. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 298. If you
are Unlucky, turn to 355

256
Roll two dice. If you roll 8 or below, turn to 338. If you
roll 9 or above, your bolt does 2 points of damage to the
STAMINA of the Dark EIf, so turn back to 47.

257-258

i)

You drink deeply from the chalice Elokinan holds in his hands;
a beautiful, sumptuously crafted vessel, the light dancing in its
chalcedony, silver filigree and moonstones, The draught is
powerful magic and works its way through al! your muscles
and sinews, blood and bone. [t raises both your Initial and
current STAMINA to 23 (unless your Initial score was already
24 anyway!), and you also gain 1 Luck point. Elokinan
draws back the chalice, and he has yet more to give you;
turn to 285

258
There is definitely something wrong here There is only a
faint wisp of woodsmoke coming from the chimney, and
there is a definite aura of evil about the place — weak, yet
discernible. So will you:

Back off and head away from this place? Turn to 154
Sneak carefully around, looking for clues? Tum to 206
Walk up to the front door and open it? Tum to 13

259-262

259
Unfortunately, a crossbow shot, from one of a group of
Tower servants who are running in to get the harnesses,
hits you in the back as you're jumping out of the Tower.
Deduct 2 points from your sTaMINA, If you are still alive,
turn to 330.

260
You at once assume the appearance of an Elf, if for but a
few minutes. Even to your own eyes, you shrink in stature,
you look more slender, your limbs are slim and lithe and, if
you could see them, your ears would look pointed. The
illusion is very complete, Unfortunately, Ice Golems, being
mindless, are not fooled by illusions. You walk up to it and
it hits you; deduct 2 points from your STAMINA, You've
wasted a good potion for nothing: lose 1 Luck point. You
now have to fight (turn to 333) or flee and search elsewhere
(turn to 23).

261
Sprinkling salt as you go melts some of the ice for a minute
or Ewo and exposes the stone below, so that you can walk
safely — if very slowly — down the slope. Cross the bag of
salt off your Possessions. Turn to 470.

262
The mood of the barbarians relaxes as the chieftain emerges
from his trance. They reach for the hollow walrus tusks
which hold the akvavit, and start talking and joking again.
A cheer goes up as a figure approaches: not a barbarian, but
a merchant with the familiar patter of a man of Zengis
selling his wares. He is making a goodly sum selling

ay

akvavit, for sure! But he does have some other items you
may want to buy, if you have the cash. If you have .
anything you think you could sell him, turn to 369. If you
want to consider buying something, turn to 7. If you’re not
in the mood for buying and selling, and just to settle down
for a night's sleep, turn to 280.

263

Further searching tums up nothing of interest or value; just
as you have decided to give up and search somewhere else,
however, a very pale spectral! figure drifts from a doorway
and calls out to you in a pitifully faint voice. The face of
the Elf-spirit is filled with sadness, and his hands are held
out in supplication. ‘My father,’ he whispers, ‘buried under
the machines in the workshops, punished by Zeverin ... he
needs life-energy to rescue him ... don’t leave him in
eternal agony, I beg you.’ The spirit is already fading away,
its image dissolving before your eyes. ‘Help him, help him.
And beware the evil one in the Great Tower ...’ The last
few words drift away into the silence of the chill air. What
will you do now? Will you:

Make straight for the workshops? Tum to 2
Head for the Great Tower? Turn to 278
Set off for some other part of the Ice

Palace? Turn to 357

259-262

259
Unfortunately, a crossbow shot, from one of a group of
Tower servants who are running in to get the harnesses
hits you in the back as you're jumping out of the Tower
Deduct 2 points from your STAMINA, If you are still alive
tum to 330.

260

You at once assume the appearance of an Elf, if for but a
few minutes, Even to your own eyes. you shrink in stature.
you look more shender, your limbs are slim and lithe and. if
you could sce them, your ears would look pointed. The
usion is very complete, Unfortunately, Ice Golema, being
mindless, are not fooled by illusians, You walk up to it and
tt hits you: deduct > points from your stamiwa. You've
wasted a good potion for nothing: lose 1 LUcx point. You
now have to fight (turn to 333) or flee and search elsewhere
(turn to 23),

261
Sprinkling salt as you 8° meits some of the ice for a minute
or two and exposes the stone below, so that you can walk
safely —if very slowly ~ down the slope. Cross the bag of
salt off your Possessions. Turn te 370.

262
The mood of the barbarians relaxes as the chieftain emerges
fom his trance. They reach for the hollow walrus tusks
which hold the akvavit. and start talking and joking again,
A cheer goes up as a figure approaches: not a barbarian, but
4 merchant with the familiar patter of a man of Zengis
selling his wares. He is making a goodly sur selling

263

akvavit, for suret But he does have same other items you
may want to buy, if you have the cash. If you have

265

Further searching turns up nothing of interest or value: just
a you have decided to give up and search somewhere else
however, a very pale spectral figure drifts from a doorway
and calls out to you in a pitifully faint voice, The face of
the Elf-spirit is filled with sadness and his hands are held
out in supplication. "My father,’ he whispers. ‘buried under
the machines in the workshops, punished by Zeverin ... he
needs life-energy to rescue him ... don’t leave him in
eternal agony, f beg you.’ The spirit is already fading away,
its image dissolving before your eyes. "Help him, help him.
And beware the evil one in the Great Tower ...' The last
few words drift away into the silence of the chill air. What
will you do now? Will you:

Make straight for the workshops? Tum to 2
Head for the Great Tower? Tum to 278
Set off for some other part of the Ice

Palace? Tum to 357

264-266

264

Elokinan holds out his arms in greeting. ‘Come, my friend,
you are good of heart and you have suffered to retum my
people to peace. ] give you a gift of greatness,’ and
between his hands is a great chalice of silver, chalcedony
and moonstones, brimming over with a nectar so sweet and
intoxicating to the senses you long to drink it. He holds
the chalice as you drink deeply from its draught

You almost reel back as the superhuman power of the
magical liquid courses through your entire body. You feel
almost impossibly strong and enduring. This draught raises
both your Inifial and current STAMINA scores to 25, and
grants you 2 LUCK points as welll Elokinan looks delighted
and pleased, and he has yet more for you. Turn to 285.

265
Walking round the Ice Palace, you find that it is rectangular,
with a tower at each of the four corners, the gatehouse in
the middle of one of the long walls, and a huge tower in the
middle of the other long wall. There appears to be a door
at the base of that big central tower, so you can enter there
(turn to 138) or go in through the gatehouse (turn to 4).

266
On tiptoe, you move quietly down a smoothly sculpted
passageway of black stone, lit only by a dull red glow
which emanates from within the stone itself — as does the
oppressive heat in this place. Above you, infernal engines
whir and hum. You move cautiously towards a bend in the
passage leading to the left. There’s a closed door to your

267-269

right facing down the passageway, and an open doorway,
just visible in the gloom, half-way down in the distance.
Will you:

Open the closed door? Turn to 171
Walk on and look through the open
doorway? Turn to 376
Walk on past the open doorway? Turn to 143
267

Not only does your blow, manage to miss the gem, but the
Man-Orc strikes you with his scimitar and you must deduct
2 points from your stamina, The wizard, mercifully, misses
you with the magical dart he flings this round. You can
either Jash out at the gem again (turn to 133) or give up and
concentrate your attack on the Man-Orc instead (turn to 8)

268

You help, bandaging the injured and comforting the survi-
vors, and then you hear a feeble cry coming from a pile of
rubble — a child’s ery for help. You scrabble frantically at
the rocks and manage to get a cowering girl out from a
cellar after an hour of hard work. But the brickwork and
stones are very loose, and now you must Test your Luck If
you are Lucky, tum to 86. If you are Unlucky, tum to"188.

269
Roll two dice and total them; this is the number of points
of STAMINA you lose as a result of Relem’s furious on-
slaught. Now Relem’s massive iron-hard claws are within
attack range and you must fight! If you have an Ice Bird,
turn to 141. If you don’t have this, turn to 275.

270-272

270
On your left-hand side you see that part of the wall along
this ice passageway is an illusion, concealing an arched
entrance into a dark chamber beyond. [f you want to enter
this chamber, turn to 221. If you would rather continue
along this passageway, turn to 88

271

You are now in hand-to-hand combat with the wizard,
Zeverin, who draws a short but wickedly curved sword to
fight you. He’s lean and wiry, and at close range you can
see that the muscles in his sword-arm are taut and stronger
than you'd expect from a wizard. He’s going to be no
pushover, so don’t forget to subtract any sTAMINA from
the total given below if you've been able to do any
damage to him before now!

ZEVERIN SKILL 20 STAMINA 13

lf you win, turn to 325.

272
The wiry Dark Elf leader is lithe and swift, and you have a
very dangerous opponent on your hands! If you have
struck him with any crossbow bolts, you may reduce the
number of points from the sTAMINA given for him below
(2 points for each normal bolt hit, some extra if you have
used one or more Magic Bolts).

DARK ELF LEADER SKILL 10 STAMINA 9

When the Dark Elf’s stamina score falls to 2 or 1, he will
throw down his dagger and plead with you not to kill him.
If you are determined to kill him anyway, turn to 384 If you

273

are prepared to spare his life, turn to 356, If the blow which
reduces his STAMINA below 3 actually kills him, turn to 310,

273
You are woken at dawn by a tottery Aliades, His breath is

coming in ragged gasps and he can barely stand, yet he has
just finished casting a spel! on you, and he thrusts a vial,
labelled ‘Potion of Stamina’, into your hand, This single
potion can be drunk at any time, except during a combat,
and it will restore sTAMINA points equal to one-half of
your Initial STAMINA score, rounding fractions up. Then the
mage falls to the ground

You get out of bed and light a lamp. Aliades is dead, his
body afflicted by a terrible withering disease. You know
somehow that Zeverin has had his revenge — and you can
only be thankful that, for some reason, he hasn’t been able

274-275

to strike at you too. You gather your gear together and say
a quiet prayer for poor Aliades. Then you fill your backpack
with the Provisions he put out for you up to its full
carrying capacity (10 meals), You step outside — and again
you are somewhere else, this time in the middle of an ice
tundra, Remembering the map Aliades showed you, you
guess you are about half way to the Ice Palace; this must be
the effect of Aliades’ final spell, you surmise. Turn to 27.

274
You find yourself outside the Tower of Airy Light. You can
re-enter it (turn to 381) or find somewhere else to search in
the Ice Palace {hirn to 23)

275
At the final count, it is your heart, courage and sword
against the inhuman, monstrous strength of the Night
Demon. Lose this battle and physical death will be the least
of your worries. On a successful hit, Relem will inflict 3
points of damage to your STAMINA!

es «=| eee

276

RELEM SKILL 14 STAMINA 25

If your staMina falls to 6 or below and you have struck
Relem at least twice with an Ice Sword, turn to 312. If you
win, turn fo 193.

276
You offer the dragon all the Gold Pieces you have, and it
accepts them Then it looks you over with complete con-
tempt and breathes frosted ice breath all over you; deduct 3
points from your stTaMiNA. You have to fight it, so tum to
122

277

277

You push the door, and it gives way — but not because of
your pushing, you realize too Jate! Beyond is a series of
smail tombs of translucent ice, with tiny Elven forms visible
within them The air is full of hanging snowflakes, sus-
pended in mid-air, gently swirling round a central stalactite
shrouded in icicles, The guardian of this mausoleum has
opened the door to admit you, and his aim js to kill you for
entering this burial place, The Elf-Ghost, appearing as an Elf
of great age in a shroud which falls away into nothingness,
reaches out for you with its spectral hands, You must fight
it here.

ELF-GHOST SKILL 8 STAMINA 9

Each time the Elf-Ghost strikes you, you must roll one die
If you roll 1-3, the blow drains you of the usual 2 points of
STAMINA, If you roll 4-6, the blow also drains you of 1
SKILL point! An Elf-Ghost is a very dangerous enemy
indeed! If you want to flee from this combat, you can do
so; turn to 144, If you win, tum to 214

278-279

278

You walk along the broad promenade of ice which leads to
the massive Great Tower. A high, spired roof reaches far
into the bright sky, and the many decorations along the
walls don’t detract from the impression of robustness and
strength this strong Tower gives. There are heavy doors of
green-veined ice facing you, which you push open with
surprising ease. You step into the ground-floor level of the
Tower

Ice furnishings decorate this huge chamber, and the roof is
supported by huge pillars of ice. Stone steps lead down to a
door in a basement, and a spiral ice staircase winds upwards
to another door above. You begin to take in the details of
this chamber, and your eye is caught by a small stone
statuette perched on one of the ice tables. It is a black jet
model of a jaguar, and its head has turned to look at you!
The Tower's magical guardian transforms instantly into a
great stone cat and leaps towards you. You must fight it

STONE JAGUAR SKILL 8 STAMINA 8

If you win, turn to 124.

279
You hurry on down a very long, meandering passageway,
which eventually opens into a circular chamber of black
rock. Around the smooth walls are bronze rails, and a
circular stone staircase cut into both floor and ceiling leads
up and down. Will you take the steps leading up (turn to
183) or those leading down (turn to 116)?

280-282

280
You sleep peacefully in the barbarian camp, and next day
they generously give you up to 3 portions of Provisions to
help you on your way. They also give you a flask of
akvavit (add this to your Possessions). This is stunning
stuff and it has the following effects: you regain up to 5
points of lost stamina, and drinking it gives you such
amazing confidence in your own prowess that you can add
1 to your SKILL for the first combat after drinking it, but for
this combat only! You can empty the flask at any time
except during a combat,. Thanking the barbarians for their
gifts, you make your way back to the trail leading to the
valley of the Sphere and, soon after midday, you find
yourself back on it. Turn to 235,

281
You spot that some Elven figures are oddly carved, and
you just manage to spring back before they magically
animate for an instant and strike at you. If you want to
continue, turn to 385, but if you think better of it and
choose to retrace your steps, tum to 3,

282
Further north, the Sphere has left a trail of melted snaw and ice
which is already freezing over again; as you plough ahead, the
sun sets at the end of the day and a biting wind springs up
from the north. You look around, hoping you may find shelter
in the straggly clumps of pine trees dotted around, These
trees look only slightly singed: the Sphere must have been
flying a little higher here. You hear what sounds like the
hooting of a Snow Owl on your right; you could try the trees
on that side (turn to 299) or the ones on your left (turn to 216)

283-284

283

You fire your bolts at Zeverin, who fires off spells in reply.
Work out Attack Strengths for both of you as normal
(Zeverin has sx1tt 10). If you have the higher Attack
Strength, your bolt causes the usual damage (4 points), If
Zeverin has the higher Attack Strength, he fires magical
spheres at you which cause you to lose 3 points from your
STAMINA, Make a note of how many points of darnage you
have inflicted on the STAMINA of Zeverin for when you
fight him later! You can kill Zeverin with four successful
magical bolt hits, and, if you do, turn to 325; but if you mm
out of magical bolts or wish to change strategy, will you:

Use a Potion of Flying, if you have one? Turn to 339
Fire your Wand of Cold at Zeverin (if

you have this)? Turn to 28
Cast a Coldwarding spell to protect
yourself, if you can? Turn to 85
Grip your sword and wait for a chance
to Fight? Turn to 372
284

Suddenly, you hear a faint moan coming from a chamber
beyond the one you are searching. It is very dark in there,
and the moaning sounds truly fearful; a chill rans down
your spine. What will you do now? Will you:

Enter the darkened chamber? Turn to 49
Search the jeweller’s workshop, if you

haven't done so already? Turn to 218
Search the armourer’s workshop? Turn to 30
Leave this area and search elsewhere in

the Ice Palace? Turn to 23

nn ______ __ _— ___ EE _________c_

285-287

285

Elokinan draws off a draught from the chalice into a small
vial. “Many are its magics,’ he says softly, hglding up the
vial of golden liquid in front of your eyes. The liquid
dances with motes of blue light, and Elokinan tells you the
magic within is that of invisibility. ‘Drink this before you
ascend to the Tower,’ he murmurs, ‘it will conceal your
flight, and even that of any flying mount you may have.’

Now, if you have a magical Ice Sword, if is time for
Elokinan to return you to the outside, to wait for the
Tower; turn to 309. If you don’t have a magical Ice Sword,
but you have a sword of ice you found in the Ice Cathedral,
turn to 42. If you have neither, again it's time to return to
the surface; turn to 309.

286
Within the gloomy recesses of the room, a pillar of fire
suddenly bursts into prominence. A black-winged humanoid
figure, with the hors and hoofs of a great goat and
bearing a huge whip and sword, snarls fury at you. You
have chanced upon a Fire Demon! Turn to 375

287

You enter the forbidding Tower of Black Ice, lightless and
oppressive, using your lantern for light. Looking upwards,
there appears to be no way of ascending: above you all is
blackness and chill, A narrow set of steps, leading down-
wards, is cut into the icy floor. Even from where you stand,
a powerful sense of evil rises from that staircase. You are
sure that some dread evil lurks down there! Will you:

288-291

Leave here and search elsewhere in the
Ice Palace? Turn to 23
Search this chamber thoroughly? Tum to 317
Go down the steps? Turn to 127

288
If you have an incense-burner, tum to 383. If you don’t
have this, turn to 56,

289
The trail continues northwards, with no sign of the Sphere
itself, But there are plentiful signals of its passing in the
blackened trees, the frozen pools and slush, and in the smell
of burning here. The grimness of the scene matches the
grimness of your face as you doggedly follow the trail,
Tum to 378

290
You swallow your Potion of Flying and rise into the air,
heading for the Tower. Now, if you have a Potion of
Invisibility, turn to 51. If you don’t have this, turn to 391.

291
At the end of the day you find a small, dry cave to shelter
in, and now you must eat another meal. This night you
sleep fitfully, dreaming of icy spires and towers, a castle of
pure ice which lies, snow-capped, on a plain of bone-numb-
ing coldness and lifelessness, You wake up suddenly, feeling
rather apprehensive, and now you must eat another meal to
keep your strength up. Then you set off, hoping your goal
cannot be far off; turn to 27.

2902-293

292

You enter the gatehouse proper and race up the steps. At
their top you meet not just one enemy, but two — Dark
Elves! You must fight them one after the other as they
stand at the top of the stairs. If you wounded one earlier
with bowfire, he will be the second Dark Elf, and you
should alter his stAMINA score accordingly

SKILL STAMINA
First DARK ELF 8 6
Second DARK ELF 8 7

If you win, you can search the Dark Elves and the rest of
the gatehouse, but there is nothing of value here save for a
little food (add 1 to your Provisions), Dark Elf crossbows
are too light for you to use effectively, There is no clue as
to what Dark Elves are doing here, so far from their usual
homes. You head outside and into the main courtyard of
the Ice Palace. Turn to 23

293

The superhot fire sears your skin and inflicts damage on
you, although your ring saves you from the worst, Deduct
4 points from your sTAMINA. If you are still alive, you rush
out through the chamber where the chilling webs are
melting away, round the edge of the sphere of darkness,
and find yourself at the junction of two passages. One
leads back and down to the Golem room, the other into a
part of the Tower you haven't been into yet. The shaking
of the Tower tells you you must hurry! Will you head for
the Golem room (turn to 19) or take the other passage (furn
to 38)?

294

294

Your surroundings change very suddenly, as does the
temperature. Instead of being out of doors in frozen terrain
under a slate-grey sky, you And yourself in a pleasant
study. “Brrr, cold in here,’ says Aliades and snaps his
fingers: a fire bursts into life in the formerly empty grate.
Another wave of the hand, a pitcher of mulled wine is on
the table, together with bread and cheese and cold meat.
You can eat as much as you wish while you rest here,
enough to return your STAMINA to its full Initial level,

Aliades finds 2 map and sits down to pore over it with you.
‘I can think of only one way to stop Zeverin in the time
you have left. You'll have to go to the Ice Palace, It’s
nearly eighty kilometres, to the north-east.’ You look over
the map and memorize its contents. ‘It’s the resting place of
the Ice Elves, their last great mausoleum, sculpted from
pure ice by Elokinan, There were always three great Elves
in their numbers: the Clan Chief, the High Mage and the
Architect, the sculptor of their homes and lives. Elokinan
played alt three roles, and he was among the very last of
his people

‘There is magic in the Ice Palace which you will have to
find and take, There may be clues too, for Zeverin studied
under Elokinan in one of his past lives, You'll need what
you may find in the tombs there — but you'll have to be
wary of offending the spirits of their dead,’ Aliades suddenly
looks very hred. ‘Time to rest now,’ he says; you're half
asleep yourself, At least you can sleep safely tonight, Turn
to 273

295-296

295

You climb the staircase and open the door at the top. It
swings open into a room covered with wall-to-wall ice
etchings and sculptures of breathtaking quality. Pillars of
delicately coloured, veined ice reach to the ceiling in sweep-
ing lines, and what seems to be an organ made of massive
icicles stands at one side of the room There is a spiral
staircase opposite you, again leading upwards. Unfortunately.
you're not alone here, Hovering in mid-air, well out of your
sward range, is a Dark Elf wearing a vicious and most
unnerving grin. Clad in fine deep-blue robes and with a silver
dagger at his belt, the Dark Elf is about to cast a speil. He is a
highly superior Dark Elf! What will you do now? Will you:

Run from here and flee from the Great

Tower? Turn to 336
Draw a crossbow (if you have one) and
fire at the Dark Elf? Turn to 326
Issue a challenge to him to come down
and fight? Turn to 156
296

In this chamber, you are unsure of your footing on the
curved floor: you must temporarily subtract 1 from your
SKILL for the duration of this combat. The Great Golem has
no such problems, of course, and it is more agile and much
faster than you. Trying to defeat this huge thing isn’t going
to be easy! If you have a Stone Jaguar and want it to help
you in combat, turn to 353, Otherwise, fight alone!

GREAT GOLEM SKILL 11 STAMINA 10

When the Great Golem hits you, roll one die; if you roll 5

294

294

Your surroundings change very suddenly, as does the
temperature, Instead of being out of doors in frozen terrain
under a slate-grey sky, you find yourself in a pleasant
study. ‘Brrr, cold in here,’ says Aliades and snaps his
fingers; a fire bursts into life in the formerly empty grate,
Another wave of the hand, a pitcher of mulled wine is on
the table, together with bread and cheese and cold meat
You can eat as much as you wish while you rest here,
enough to return your sTAMINA to its full Initial level

Aliades finds a map and sits down to pore over it with you
‘T can think of only one way to stop Zeverin in the time
you have left. You'll have to go to the Ice Palace, It’s
nearly eighty kilometres, to the north-east.’ You look over
the map and memorize its contents. It’s the resting place of
the Ice Elves, their last great mausoleum, sculpted from
pure ice by Elokinan. There were always three great Elves
in their numbers: the Clan Chief, the High Mage and the
Architect, the sculptor of their homes and lives. Elokinan
played al! three roles, and he was among the very last of
his people.

‘There is magic in the Ice Palace which you will have to
find and take. There may be clues too, for Zeverin studied
under Elokinan in one of his past lives. You'll need what
you may find in the tombs there — but you'll have to be
wary of offending the spirits of their dead,’ Aliades suddenly
looks very tired. ‘Time to rest now, he says; you're half
asleep yourself. At least you can sleep safely tonight. Turn

to 273

295-296

295

You climb the staircase and open the door at the top. It
swings open into a toom covered with wall-to-wall ice
etchings and sculptures of breathtaking quality. Pillars of
delicately coloured, veined ice reach to the ceiling in sweep-
ing lines, and what seems to be an organ made of massive
icicles stands at one side of the room There is a spiral
staircase opposite you, again leading upwards. Unfortunately,
you're not alone here. Hovering in mid-air, well out of your
sword range, is a Dark Elf wearing a vicious and most
unnerving grin. Clad in fine deep-blue robes and with a silver
dagger at his belt, the Dark Elf is about to cast a spell. He is a
highly superior Dark Elff What will you do now? Will you:

Run from here and flee from the Great

Tower? Turn to 336
Draw a crossbow (if you have one) and
fire at the Dark Elf? Turn to 326
Issue a challenge to him to come down
and fight? Tum to 156
296

In this chamber, you are unsure of your footing on the
curved floor: you must temporarily subtract 1 fom your
SKILL for the duration of this combat The Great Golem has
na such problems, of course, and it is more agile and much
faster than you. Trying to defeat this huge thing isn’t going
to be easy! If you have a Stone Jaguar and want it to help
you in combat, turn to 353, Otherwise, fight alone!

GREAT GOLEM SKILL 11 STAMINA 10

When the Great Golem hits you, roll one die; if you roll 5

297-300

or 6, it inflicts 3 points of srAMINA damage to you, rather
than the usual 2, due to its great strength. If you win, you
cross to the far side of the chamber and leave by the far
stairs, Turn to 87,

a97
You are now heading straight towards the Sphere, and
there isn’t a great deal of cover directly ahead. You can
continue in the sarne way (turn to 344) or sweep around to
approach the Sphere from the other side, where there
appears to be better concealment for an approach (turn to

398),

298
If you have a bronze medallion, tum to 169. If you don't
have a bronze medallion, but you do have a silver brooch,
turn to £9. If you have neither, turn to 355

a9
Entering the group of pines, you see a huge, ghostly-white
Snow Owl perched on a tall tree straight ahead, Its amber
eyes glimmer in the shadows of dusk. These great birds are
very territorial, so you may want to back away and make
for the other group of pines (tum to 216), or you can move
ahead regardless (turn to 125).

300
Which beam wil! you enter now? Will it be:

The green beam? Turn to 252
The blue bearn? Tur to 167
The red bear? Turn to 274

JOIM305

301
This form of the Healing spell allows you to recover
between 2 and 7 points of lost srAMINA: when you cast it,
roll one die and add 1 to the number rolled. Retum to 360.

302
Your sword sweeps in an arc, as if independent of your
command, and slices one spray of bolts into nothingness!
But the others are circling in If you have a Shield of
Warding, turn to 236, If you don’t have this, turn to 130

393
Roll two dice, If the total is less than or equal to your
SKILL, turn to 349. If the total is greater than your SKILL,
you find nothing here, so turn back to 116 and choose
another action

304
Through diligent searching you at last tum up a small box
with four crossbow bolts made of blue ice sealed inside thin
glass tubes. If you want to take these weapons (which are
no use to you if you don’t have a crassbow!) you may; add
them to your Possessions. Each bolt is enchanted so that it
causes 4 points of damage to the sTAMINA of an enemy
when it hits successfully. You must make a note of the fact
when you use one of these boits, and cross off used ones
from your Possessions when you fire them. Turn to 284 to
continue your search here

395
The Elf-spirit bows towards you, ushers you into the main
chamber, and fades into nothingness. A little apprehen-
sively, you step forward into the light. Turn to 197.

306

306

At the end of the day you finally find somewhere to lay
down your blanket and get some sleep. Sleepy as you are,
however, your eyes are drawn to the plateau, which is now
below you. For a moment you believe you saw the Ice
Palace itself, a huge building of astonishing beauty — and
sinister atmosphere, It wasn’t just the cold which caused a
shiver to run along your spine. But then it was gone; was it
just a mirage? In the pit of your stomach you know it was
teal but must be hidden by illusion, so that you cannot see
it if you look for it.

You must eat a meal before you sleep, and anather in the
morning. If you have dogs with you, they will not go any
further; they whine and cringe away from the plateau
ahead, so you must leave them (and the sled) behind. You
begin the descent on to the plateau of ice

You walk for most of the day until you are tired and your
eyes are stinging from the glare of the sun on snow You
can hardly think straight because of fatigue and the bitter
cold, which is perhaps why you finally see the Ice Palace
looming up only a few score metres in front of you. It takes
your breath away: magnificent spire-shaped towers rise into
the azure sky, a dome of rainbow-swirled ice rises into the
air behind the ice walls, and intricate guttering, roofwork
and sculpted details everywhere catch the eye. Before you
is a stout gatehouse with gates of ice; will you try to gain
entry here (burn to 138) or scout around, looking for
another way to get in (hun to 265)?

307-308

397
You think that you have managed to find an open entrance,
close to the base of the Tower, which has no guard — but
you are surprised by a cloaked and cowled, skeletal creature
with sparkling red eyes which flings a spear at you as you
fly closer. Deduct 2 points from your stAMiNA If you are
riding on a Pegasus, turn to 78, If you aren't, turn to 182,

308

In the morning, you must eat a meal, Then you go outside
to stretch your legs — and the first thing that catches your
eye is a winged shape in the sky, just to the south, It looks
sizeable and, if it's a White Dragon, then it’s a formidable
beast indeed. You decide to wait for an hour and then look
again; but when you venture outside once more, the creature
is still there, circling in the sky. What are you going to do?
You can set off outside and head north (tum to 212) or stay
inside the cave (turn to 387)

309

309

You are standing just outside the gates of the Ice Palace,
looking up into a cloudy blue sky. As you are getting your
bearings, the sky turns ominously dark to the north: the
clouds seer almost to be boiling, and a shape is beginning
to materialize over the horizon. Gradually the black mono-
lith glides into view, and you are transfixed by how huge
the Tower of Destruction is, It dwarfs the Ice Palace; even
so far up in the sky, the Tower is immense: a gigantic,
flying, buttressed, black horror. Suddenly, from its base a
wide pillar of fire cascades to the ground, and a thick black
cloud of smoke arises from the base of the flame as a
village is incinerated. The massive gouts of flame sputter
and are gone; the Tower glides onwards towards you on its
atrocious mission

Jf you have a Potion of Flying, turn to 2go, If you don't,
but you do have a bronze medallion (or if you'd rather use
the medallion), turn to 328. If you have neither, turn to
215,

vv
Sry
},

ANA)
iy \ ) OP
Uy hi

(a5 ‘ y
y J
hr. if
+ . es oO te
\ ee Win

me i

eae: = (plnenenn nena

310-312

310

The room has clearly been stripped of everything of value
and note; but the Dark Elf has a bunch of small keys, plus
his dagger and robe. If you want to take his keys and open
the doors at the top of the stairs here, turn to 164. If you
want to take his keys and open the door in the basement.
fun to 45. If you want to take his robe and dagger, tum to
392.

311
You can’t take a shot at the moose, worse luck, so you
have to watch a potential source of fresh meat dinners
happily grazing away. Turn to 29x.

312
Suddenly you become aware of a presence at your side, and
an arm takes hold of your sword-arm. His strength pours
into you at your time of desperation, Regain 2 lost staMINA
points, and you receive a temporary banus of 1 to your
SKILL for the next three Attack Rounds only. You had the
briefest glimpse of the helper who infused new strength
into you: a tall and regal male Elf... now return to 275 and
fight to the death!

313-315

313

As you open the door, a swirling mass of fiery darts flies at
your head! If you have a ring, you know the name of the
person who last owned it. Take the letters of that name,
convert them to number values (A=1, B=2, C=3, etc.)
and add them up to find a total, then multiply that total by
z, Turn to the paragraph with this number. If you don’t
have the ring, you must lose 5 points from your STAMINA
Turn to 286.

314

You must eat a meal at the start of the day. You strike out
eastwards and, by the middle of the day, find yourself
walking along a shallow escarpment overlooking a wide,
shallow valley. In the far distance a herd of elk run off
northwards; a watery sun shines down on you out of a
pale-blue sky but there is no heat in its rays, no warmth at
all. Your breath turns to frost in the chill, clear air, You see
a single, imposing log house at the far end of the valley
and set off towards it. By late afternoon you are nearly
there: all you need to do is skirt round a fenced-off corral
and some snow-carpeted lumber piles and you will be at
the front door, As you approach the entrance, roll two dice
then subtract 1 from the number rolled. If the total is less
than or equal to your skiLL, turn to 28. If the total is
greater than your sKILt, turn to 13,

315
[f you decide to use your Potion of Fire Breath here, you
will certainly vaporize all the ice and be able to walk down
the stone ramp safely! If you want to do this. turn to 370;
but the potion must be crossed off your list of Possessions

316

If you don’t want to use the Potion for this purpose, tum
to 395

The bolt fired by the hateful Dark Elf has a discoloured tip,
and its venom burns your flesh as it strikes home. You stifle
a cry of pain, but you must deduct 4 points from your
STAMINA. He is firing poisoned arrows — and all hits on
you will inflict this much damage! Will you:

Continue to trade crossbow fire? Turn to 47
Head for the door of the Tower of
Shielding? Turn to 196

Run away and find somewhere else to
search? Tum to 23

317-319

317
On a wall opposite you find a small carved portal, but
there’s no way you can open it, tn frustration, you'll either
have to leave and search elsewhere (turn to 23) or head
down the icy steps here (turn fo 127).

318

In a flash you remember that dragons, being very vain, are
supposed to love flattery. You start with a rapid volley of
comments on the dragon’s size, strength, impressive demean-
our, and so on; but the dragon just says, ‘Pooh, that won't
work on me, I’m much too clever,’ and breathes all over
you, Deduci 3 points from your sTAMINA. It's time to
fight; turn to 4122.

319
The darkness is bitterly cold, chilling you to the bone.
Deduct 3 points from your sTAMINA, unless you cast the
Coldwarding spell before you entered here, in which case
you take no damage. You blunder out of the darkness on
the far side of the Sphere; tum to 12

320-321

320
You stride confidently across to the Rainbow Tower. On
the way, you realize that you are growing hungry; time has
passed, and you must eat a meal now, You settle down to
eat your chilly food then get up and approach the arched
door of the glorious south-western tower, its colours re-
splendent in the rays of the winter sun. You push open the
door and enter a chamber of magnificent, swirling ice
sculptures, Standing in the distance is a staircase of crystal-
line ice leading upwards. Before it, barring your way as you
advance, is the sculpture of an EIf, made of opaque ice ~
magical, surely, since it moves and raises the point of an ice
spear at your chest. ‘Only Elves may pass,’ the lce Golem
Says in an expressionless voice. What will you do here?

Will you:
Back off and try searching somewhere
else? Turn to 23
| Fight the Ice Golem? Turn to 333
Try to pass yourself off as an Elf? Tum to 368
421

Aliades, the man you have helped from the Sphere, says he
can tell you a great deal about Zeverin, the wizard who
created it, and his purpose. ‘He’s a very powerful wizard
He’s hundreds of years old, and he has reincarnated himself
through many lives of power and evil. Jk would not have
been him inside the Sphere in person, only an illusion, and
he will be alive yet and scheming. The knowledge he has
gained over centuries he has put to work in the service of
Demonkind. The Sphere was built to test whether his ideas
would work, and it’s clear that they do. The great Tower

a eee ———

321

he plans to make by magic will be a much more terrible
artefact.

‘The Tower will fly as the Sphere does, but it will rain fire,
choking smoke and acid for kilometres around. But that will
be the least of its powers of destruction. As the Tower
gains in strength and power, it will cut a swathe of death,
which will allow Zeverin to open up a great necromantic
highway to the plane of the Demon Lords. The hordes of
the hells will pour forth and utterly annihilate every living
thing in Allansia.’ Aliades is silent, to let this sink in. ‘Then
the Old World, then Khul, then all of Titan. Zeverin is mad;
he thinks Sith and her henchman, Relem, will reward him
for this service, They will just leave him until last, that’s all.’

‘How do you know all this?’ you ask Aliades quietly. His
eyes are cast down, looking away from you

‘I was fooled into becoming his apprentice. I didn’t realize
what his experiments with flying structures and buildings
really meant and by the time 1 did, it was too late. But it
isn’t too late to stop him altogether,’ Painfully he struggles
to his feet. ‘Time is very short. Zeverin will soon fearn that
I'm not dead, We must go,’ and he mutters the syllables
and phrases of a spell as his hand grips your arm. Turn to
294.

322-324

322
Without climbing gear this descent wil! be very tricky. If
you want to try it anyway, turn to 172, If you think better
of it and turn back, turn to 235

323
‘Zeverin studied here for many years, under Elokinan and
athers, including myself. His work was secretive, but he
had a glib tongue, and Elves are not suspicious folk. He was
banished by Elokinan when the magnitude of his evil was
discovered, but by then he had conspired with infernal
powers to bring a terrible curse down upon us, Elokinan
tumed this Palace into a mausoleum, to protect our spirits
from the worst of Zeverin’s summoned evils, There are
fates worse than death .,, What Zeverin does now | do not
know, but | do know that he has one great weakness; he is
immune to fire and lightning, but he is very vulnerable to
magical cold, which causes him great pain and severe
wounding. I think this weakness is a curse laid on him by a
vengeful priest of good, or it is a mark of his demonic
alliances,’ Turn to 255

324
After your unproductive investigations in the depths of the
Sphere, will you now:

Take the steps leading up? Turn to 183
Return to the main junction and take the
left-hand turning? Turn to 37

Return to the main junction and take the
right-hand turning? Turn to 118

325-327

525

The wizard’s slender body lies at your feet, devoid of life
Yet the roaring pillar of fire stil] burns, the blood still pours
from the bowls the statues hold, the Tower still moves on
its way. And you sense that there is more to be done
Zeverin was not the master here, or maybe this is only a
simulacrum of Zeverin you have slain. You have a little
time here: to be precise, you have time to cast a spell, drink
some brandy, or use a magical item, but you can’t use all
three actions to eat (you just can’t wolf food down that
fast). Make up your mind,what you are going to do in the
free time you have left to you, then tum to 158,

326
You draw a crossbow and nock a bolt, but this gives the
Dark Elf time to let fly with his Ice Darts spell. A handful
of icy darts leap from his fingers, spinning in the air, and
strike you. Rall one die; its total is the number of points of
STAMINA you lose through this magical attack, Now you
have your crossbow readied, however! Turn to §9.

327
Do you have a mark on your forehead? If you have, turn to
145. If you haven't, tum to 175

328-330

328

You rub gently on the medallion and very soon a white
shape streaks across the horizan towards you: a Pegasus, a
superb, white, winged stallion; it lands close by you and
whinnies impatiently. You're going to have to take a
bareback aerial ride. so hang on tight! Now, if you have a
Potion of Invisibility, turn to 51. If you don't have this,
turn Co 391.

oo
Your bowshot misses the animal, which immediately races
away out of range. There’s no chance of getting fresh meat
now and, what's worse, you cannot find the bolt you fired

Tum to 291.

330
You drop through the air like a stone as the Tower hurtles
crazily away out of control and careers downwards inexor-
ably, rather like you ... Luckily, just when you're about
to give way to panic, the magic of the harness takes effect
and you find yourself gliding, floating gently down.

You land in a heap, exhausted and weak. Fortunately, the
two servants of Zeverin who have floated down in the
same area are too busy running away to trouble you. And,
looking up, you see the huge Tower fall precipitously
towards the Frozen Plateau and explode there in an enor-
mous ball of flame and molten rock. Unbelievably, against
all odds, you have succeeded in your mission ... haven't
you? You see, in the distance, a cowled and robed figure
striding purposefully towards you. This doesn’t look good
You've got time for 3 actions before the stranger gets close
to you. Eating a meal (you can’t use all your actions for

;

531-332

eating meals!), drinking a pation, casting a spell, or using a
magic item all count as an action. Decide what you are
going to do, then turn to 204.

331

Not far ahead, you see the trail the Sphere has left widening
and blackening. Rounding a rock outcrop you see the
reason why — the remains of a barbarian camp, burned to
cinders by the Sphere, Charred bodies of people and their
animals lie scattered around the still-smoking ruins of their
tents and belongings. It'is obvious that the Sphere was
guided low to destroy these poor people, You realize there
is no doubt that something very deeply evil controls the
Sphere. There’s no one here you can help, but your eye
catches on a strange bronze medallion lying in the blackened
snow. It has a winged horse engraved on it, and you may
take this if you wish (add the bronze medallion to your
Possessions), Now you continue your trek; turn to 53

332

If you use a Coldwarding spell here, you do not have to
suffer any loss of points from your stTAMINA through the
cold as instructed in following paragraphs, The spell expires
when you go outside, however, Any other spell wil! operate
normally, but it won‘t help you against the cald here. Turn
fo 115.

333

333

The Ice Golem is more powerful than its stature suggests,
and it is strongly enchanted. Each time it hits you, you
must roll one die: tf you roll 1—3, the blow inflicts 3 points
of damage to your STAMINA, rather than the usual 2 points!

ICE GOLEM SKILL 9 STAMINA 9

if you win, you climb the staircase and arrive at a landing.
From here, passages lead into chambers to your left and
right, and the stairs also continue upwards to a large, airy
chamber at the top of the Tower. Will you:

Take the left-hand passage? Turn to 351
Take the right-hand passage? Turn to 200
Head on up the stairs? Tum to 242

334-336

334
In this inner hollowed sphere of a chamber, the heat is

tremendous and almost knocks you backwards. In the centre
of the huge Sphere, four large black stone figures stand;
they are bearing great copper bowls from which they
empty a liquid into a central swirling vortex of heat, light
and whirling stones. From the ceiling a pillar of roaring fire
slams down into that vortex, where it mixes, hissing, with
the liquid from the bowls. The flame at the base of the
pillar is clearly transformed in some magical way: sparks
and motes of light appear within it, and its colour changes
to a darker, coppery red, In a stomach-turning moment,
you realize that this may have something to do with the
fact that the liquid mixing with the flame is blood ... a
very great deal of blood

Roll two dice and add 2. If the total is less than or equal to
your sxiLt, turn to 65. If the total is greater than your
SKILL, turn to 399.

335
You have failed. You don’t know how, or where, to oppose

Zeverin the wizard; before long you will die, as will
thousands of others when the huge Tower of Destruction
appears over the lands of Allansia!

336
You turn tail and flee as the Dark Elf fires a fistful of
magical Ice Darts at you. Roll one die. The total is the
number of points of sTAMINA you lose as you run away. If
you are still alive, you escape and must find somewhere
else to search. Turn to 23.

337-349

337
You open the tomb and take the jewelled amulet from the

hands of the Elf-maiden. There is no magic in it, although it
is valuable (it is worth 15 Gold pieces, so you can add it to
your Treasure if you wish). Lose 1 HONOUR point for
tomb-robbing. You can choose to open another tomb
(return to rox to select one you haven't opened yet} or
perform some other action (turn to 263),

338
Your bolt whirs through the air towards the Dark Elf — and

then is deflected harmlessly to one side of him! He suffers
no damage at all. Will you:

Continue to trade crossbow fire? Turn to 47
Head for the door of the Tower of
Shielding? Turn to 196
Run away and find somewhere else to
search? Turn to 23
339

You drink your potion quickly and fly into the air to
confront the magician, Roll two dice and add 1. If the total
rolled is less than or equal to your skILL, tum to 271. If the
total is greater than your SKILL, turn to 75.

340
You are awoken by the snuffling of a grizzly bear in the
wood! Grizzlies are hungry brutes and have a nasty temper
Will you:

Attack the bear? Turn to 244

341-342

Clamber up a tree and hide? Tum to 96
Lay down some food to delay the bear
and sneak off elsewhere? Tum to §o
341

You fight the old Elf Spirit, who uses his wand to strike you
with chilling missiles of glowing magical light. Each time he
wins an Attack Round, you are going to lose 4 points from
your STAMINA as a result of his magical attack, so you had
better win swiftly!

ELF SPIRIT SKILL 7 STAMINA 7

If you win, the Elf’s spirit-form dissolves, and his wand
disappears with him. You must lose 1 point of HoNouR for
choosing to attack the old, confused spirit as a first option
here! Now you may proceed; which path will you take at
the crossroads ahead?

The path directly ahead? Turn to 64

The path to your left? Turn to 148

The path to your right? Turn to 189
342

The weaponmaker’s workshop seems to be devoid of fin-
ished work. There are roughly worked steel blades, unfixed
cross-girths for swords, half-completed morningstars and
other items of the same sort. There is nothing either
magical or even completed here as far as you can see, as
you look through the objects laid out on the tables and
benches. You wonder how the ice anvil and strange ice
brazier could have been used to work metal! Roll two dice
and add the scores. If the total is less than or equal to your

Z

343-346

SKILL, tum to 304. If the total is greater than your SKILL,
turn to 284

343
Cheat! You can’t have an HONOUR score this high, it isn’t

possible, Turn to 309

344
You edge forward behind what little rock cover there is,

and you manage to get to within a few metres of the
Sphere. It now seems smaller than you remembered; maybe
only ten or twelve metres across. But it lies in an area of
shattered rock and melted snow and ice, and it radiates evil
as well as heat and stench. You can see what could be an
entrance to ane side of it: it looks like a wedge cut into the
surface of the Sphere, but all is blackness inside, So you
wait for cover of darkness, and at dusk you creep forward
towards the Sphere, right up to the entrance; then, with a
deep breath and a prayer to the Gods of Good, you step
inside Turn to 379

345
You press your body hard against the rock face and

mercifully the avalanche passes by on one side, just missing
you. Gain 1 LUCK point; now you can continue safely on
your way. Turn to 113,

346
You don’t know anything about magic, and trying to study
the swirling mass of magical energies and forces gets you
nowhere, But it does lose you time. You are hit by a falling
chunk of rock from the clearly disintegrating Tower, Deduct

347

2 points from your sTAMINA, and from now until you
escape the Tower you will have no time to eat any meals
(although you can drink a potion if you have one) You've
got to brave the ring of magical fire and flee from the
room, If you have a magical ring, turn to 293. If you don’t
have this, turn to 247

347
You have a lot of ground to cover and many curiously

decorated ice buildings to explore. However, in the course
of your explorations you do manage to find the following
items: some climbing gear (rope, ice picks, a small hammer),
oil to replenish your lantern, and some frozen food which
the heat of your lantern can thaw out for you. There is
enough food for 8 meals here; if you want to take some,
you can add to your Provisions total. You must also stop
and eat a meal here. After the warmth of your meal, you
unroll a blanket and settle down for some sleep. Your
search here was lengthy, and you need rest. In the morning,
you must eat another meal and resume your investigations
elsewhere in the Ice Palace Turn to 23

348-350

The Dark Elf hurls a Lightning Bolt at you! you must
deduct 5 points from your sTAMINA If you are still alive,
you see the Dark EIf casting yet another spell! Roll dice for
the Attack Strengths of yourself and the Dark EIf once
more. If you have the higher Attack Strength, turn to 9. If
the Dark Elf has the higher Attack Strength, tum to 186

349
You find a sturdy door hidden in one corner of the room,

but it will take some effort to open You also have a
sneaking feeling that it may be booby-trapped in some
way. What will you do? Will you:

Open the secret door anyway? Tum to 93
Open the secret door with a crowbar, if
you have one? Turn to 104
Take the steps up one flight? Turn to 324
Take the steps up two flights? Turn to 183
Follow the passage leading from here? Turn to 26
359

As the wizard claps his hands and casts another spell, you
notice the gem in the feft eye socket of the Stone Demon
glow blue — the same colour as the dart which flies at you,
inflicting another 2 points of damage to your STAMINA. ~
Maybe the Demon is aiding the wizard in some way! Do
you want to:

351
Look carefully at the wizard to try and
find a clue? Tum to 208
Try striking at the gem you saw glow? Tum to 133
Continue fighting the Man-Orc? Tur to 8

351

You walk into a large, empty chamber, devoid of decoration;
it looks as if it was thoroughly emptied before the Ice Elves
met their doom here. You tum on your heel and are about
to walk out when, to your horror, you hear a sudden loud
cracking noise. You look up to see that the ceiling of the
chamber is collapsing and that you are about to be buried
under blocks of ice! If you have found an amulet in the Ice
Palace, you know who gave it to you. Convert his name
into a number using the formula: A=1, B=2, C =3..,
2 = 26; then total the numerical values of the letters in his
name. Turn to the paragraph with the same number. If you
don’t have this amulet, turn to 170

352-353

352

You manage to uncover a ledger, tucked under some links
of chain on one of the worktables. You can’t read the Elven
script, but there is a name at the bottom: Filandre. There are
two runes by the name, and you think that one of them
signifies magic. The other you're unsure about — perhaps it
means armour? Still, you can’t find any magic armour here.
What will you do now? Will you:

Search the jeweller’s workshop, if you

haven‘t done so already? Tum to 218
Search the weaponmaker’s workshop, if
you haven't done so already? Turn to 342
Leave this area and search elsewhere in
the Ice Palace? Turn to 23
353

Unfortunately, the Stone Jaguar — being made of stone —
is very vulnerable to the attacks of the Golem, As it springs
to full size, the Golem simply crushes it with a single
horrertdousty powerful blow. You need a better atralegy
here. Will you try:

Fighting the Golem? Turn to 296
Taking a Potion of Flying, if you have

one, and flying past to the steps

opposite? Tum to 367
Taking a Potion of Flying and using

crossbow fire, if this is possible for

you? Turn to 241

er

354-355

354
It’s a long way back to the main trail, but cutting across flat

countryside enables you to make up some lost time. Soon,
however, grey clouds are gathering and the weather looks
uncertain, Roll one die; if you roll 1-3, turn to 129, If you
roll 4—6, turn to 61, If you want to, you can add 2 to this
die-roll by ‘spending’ a point of Lucx, but then you must
deduct 1 from your current LUCK score

355
Lefarel has gone; his spirit faded and disappeared with the

last few words he spoke to you. If you gave him a book, it
has gone with him; but you see that new words are
beginning to appear in a blank panel on a far wall, being
etched on the ice even as you look! No mortal hands are
recording the knowledge of the book, and you leave
whatever is there to its task,

You head down the stairs, Now you can go down to the
basement, if you haven't been there before (turn to 45), or
you may leave and search elsewhere in the Ice Palace (turn
to 23).

356

356
You keep your sword pointing at the Dark Elf’s throat

Tl make a deal with you: I'll tell you what I’m doing here,
and about my master, if you will spare my life,’ the Dark Elf
whines. You motion him to continue. ‘I serve Zeverin the
Mighty,’ he says. ‘] was sent to pillage the place with the
other Dark Elves and to prevent any help being taken from
here to oppose my master when the Black Tower is ready
to destroy this land, When it does, my folk will rule below
the earth and Zeverin will rule upon it. If his masters allow
him, that is.” The Dark EIf looks at you conspiratonally
‘Zeverin made a pact with a great Demon, who has given
him the power to build a flying structure as great and
strong as the Tower. I think Zeverin is too subservient to
the Demon, personally. But as long as my people can wreck
places like this, I'm happy. I can’t say any more. ] don’t
know who or what the Demon is — but I do know it is one
of great power, No mortal could withstand it without truly
unique magical help. Not you, for sure!’

The Dark EIf is treading on thin ice! Having heard his story,
will you renege on your bargain and kil! him anyway (turn to
384) or bind and gag him and leave him here {turn to 310)?

357-358

357
Shame on you for refusing help to one in such obvious

distress! Lose 1 HONOUR point, Turn to 23.

358

You open the door of a cell: a chained and manacled man is
slumped against a wall inside, groaning. With keys taken
from the Man-Ore’s corpse, you free him and help him over
to one of the stone seats, He is feeble but is not badly hurt,
and he thanks you for your courage in rescuing him. Gain 1
HONOUR point and 1 Luck point for your deeds. He
doesn’t even have time to tell you his name, though, before
he says, ‘Let’s make sure we've all seen the end of this,’ and
his hands manipulate rapidly the lever, the chain-whip and
the gems. The screen at the end of the room starts to glow
redly, “Time to go,’ says the man — and then a sudden
tremor runs through the room, causing him to fall heavily to
the floor. ‘I've miscalculated, he sighs, picking himself up,
‘it’s all going to blow up at any moment!’ Will you help
him to get out of the Sphere, taking a risk on getting blown
to pieces yourself (tum fo 184) or — since it’s his fault
you're in danger — will you run off and save your own skin,
leaving him to try to get out unaided (tum to 121)?

359-360

359
The Elf-spirit is very dextrous, and hard to hit. He is not

strong, but his blows sting and he is not the weak enemy
his willowy, wispy and ghostly figure suggests!

ELF-SPIRIT SKILL 10 STAMINA 7

If you win, you step past the fast-vanishing ghostly body
of the EIf and into the chamber beyond. Turn to 197.

360

You offer the old EIf the brown book, He clutches at it
eagerly and almost seems to draw strength from it, ‘This
gladdens my heart,’ he says softly, ‘and renews my strength.
We have a little extra time — time for me to teach you a
spell or two, perhaps,’ The old EIf will be able to teach you
two of the spells from the list below. He apologizes for the
fact that more complex and powerful Elven spells can’t be
taught to you — they take too long, and you wouldn't be
able to understand them anyway (he is polite about this’).
Decide which two spells you will learn, and then turn to
the paragraphs indicated below and make a note of the
effects of the spells you have chosen, You can only use
each spell you leam once, so make your choice wisely!

Luck spell Turn to 36
Linkcut Tum to 377
Healing spell Turn to 301
Coldwarding Turn to 176

After learning each spell, you will be referred back to this
paragraph; when you have selected two spells, turn to z09,

,

Sa, ‘ ee

361-364

361
You round the comer just in time to see a huge polar bear's
claws giving the final blow to an unfortunate trapper, while
a bunch of snarling huskies remains at a safe distance,
snarling and yapping. The enormous bear looks round at
you and comes loping across the snow, blood dripping
from its massive paws. You can’t outrun it, so you have to

fight.

POLAR BEAR SKILL 9 STAMINA 14

If you win, turn to 396

362
Can you think of something clever enough in this pressure
situation? Roll two dice and add 1; if the total is less than
or equal to your skiL1, turn to 318. If the total is greater
than your SKILL, turn to 225.

363
You are unfortunate. The robed man goes last, but a small
pile of the magical harnesses is left behind. You rush in and
grab one, just avoiding a huge pile of rock which would
have smashed you into the floor with it if you'd been
undemeath it. You put on the harnesg and jump through
the archway into space. Now you must Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, turn to 330. If you are Unlucky, turn to 259.

364
You find yourself standing on what you guess must be the

middle floor, since there is a very light ice ceiling above
and a dimmer light coming from the floor below. From this
small chamber a passageway leads into a series of intercon-

365-367
necting rooms which have some kind of equipment in them,
You could search these, or you could enter one of the three

teleport beams here. Will you:

Search the rooms you see, unless you

have already done so? Turn to 92
Enter the red light beam here? Turn to 397
Enter the yellow light beam here? Tum to 167
Enter the purple light beam here? Turn to 274

365

The number of days you have taken on your joumey now
becomes important. If you have spent 4 or fewer days on
your journey here, tum to 135. If 5 or more days have
elapsed, turn to 254

366

You spend some time looking for the old village shaman.
Some people mutter that they have seen him, but they
seem confused and rambling, You waste more time looking
for the old man; finally, you find his half-charred body lying
outside a smal] hut. By now, most of the other people have
done what they can to help their fellows, so you can either
look around for something to help you during your trek
after the Sphere if you haven't already done so (turn to 41)
or press on straight away (turn to 224).

367
You fly past the Golem ~ straight into a wall of force
which the thing conjures into existence with a wave of its
fist. You fall, stunned, to the ground and the Great Golem
gives you a hefty thump as you are getting up. Deduct 4

368-370

points from your STAMINA, and you have to fight, Tum to
296,

368
What approach are you going to employ against the Ice
Golem? Will you:

Try speaking with an Elf-like voice? Turn to ro

Drink a potion? Turn to 58

Try some other approach? Turn to 157
369

The merchant will buy a flask of brandy, if you have one,
for 2 Gold Pieces. He’s also keen to buy a Silver Fox if you
have that; if you want to sell the pelt, he'll give you 4 Gold
Pieces for it. If you want to buy something from him, tum
to 7; if you want to tum in for the night, turn to 280.

379°
You have reached the bottom af the ramp and are walking
slowly along a tunnel coated with ice, heading gently
downwards. Small alcoves, chiselled into the ice and stone
at regular intervals, are occupied by small sculptures and
arabesques in the ice showing Elves, polar-dwelling crea-
tures, stylized birds, and similar creatures. There is a faint,
blue-green, magical light coming from the ice itself, and the
silence — save for the crunching of your boots on the ice —
is absolute. Then, as you turn a comer, you see a crossroads
looming in the distance, quite some way ahead. Also in the
tunnel, not far ahead of you, is an Elven spirit, an old man
holding a rod or wand of some kind which is pointing
directly at you. ‘Elves only may pass, are you friend or foe?’

nn ___________

371-372

he asks uncertainly in a quavering voice, You claim to be a
friend, Elves only,’ he repeats. ‘Come closer, I cannot see
you, friend.’ He squints shortsightedly, trying to get a
good look at you. What will you do now? Will you:

Drink a potion? Turn to 74
Run past the Elf (there is enough space

to do this)? Tum to 17
Attack the Elf? Turn to 341

Try to pretend that you are an Elf? Turn to 166

371
The homes of the Ice Elves are cleaned out, devoid of any

internal decorations or possessions, as if the Elves knew
about their coming fate and had removed everything belong-
ing to them before the end. At some junctions of small
avenues there are piles of ice rubble and, since there isn’t
anything in the igloo-like houses, you rummage idly in
some of this rubble. Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to
123. If you are Unlucky, turn to 222.

572

Zeverin laughs evilly. ‘Poor, snivelling fighter, what use are
your skills here?’ and he fires off a handful of magical darts
which fly at you and lash at your armour and skin. Deduct
3 points from your stTAMINa. ‘You are a dead man, your
blood will fuel the fire.’ He fires off another set of darts —
but these do just 2 points of damage to your sTAMINA, and
you suspect he’s running out of magical energy. Indeed, as
he drops to the ground, he draws a weapon with the clear
intention of finishing you off. So perhaps you have some
chance. Turn to 271.

373-374

373
You try to bluff or to parley, but the Giant isn’t having any

of it. He gets bored and smacks you with his club, Deduct
2 points from your sTAMINA, and you are forced to fight;
turn to 226.

374
As you carve the correct number into the ice, it disappears

and a spectral voice whispers, You may enter,’ so you step
forward into the chamber. The distant chiming of song and
polyphony of choirs is achingly beautiful. You would love
to stay and listen to it, but you do have a quest here! If you
want to take either the brown book or the Ice Bird, you
can’t separate them: the bird retains its clawhold on the
book's spine. Looking inside the book, you see that it is
written in Elvish, so it means nothing to you. It does,
however, have exactly 180 pages and, if you take the Ice
Bird and the brown book, you should make a note of this
fact! Now you leave this chamber; will you:

Enter the passageway opposite, if you

haven't done so before? Turn to 351
Leave the Tower of Rainbow Ice and

search elsewhere in the Ice Palace? Turn to 23
Head on up the stairs? Tum to 242

375-376

375
Fortunately for you, the Fire Demon isn’t fully formed on

this plane, away from its natural abode. It can be struck and
hurt with magical weapons, and it isn’t as powerful as usual
However, if you have taken 5 or 6 days to get to the
Sphere, you must add 1 to both its sxitt and STAMINA
scores given below; if you've taken 7 days or more, you
must add z to its skILL and 2 to its sTAMINA score; it has
grown closer to full power with the passing of time!

FIRE DEMON SKILL 8 STAMINA 8

Each Attack Round, the Fire Demon wiil shoot a stream of
fire from its nostrils. This will cause 1 extra point of
damage to your STAMINA on a die roll of z—4 (and 2 extra
points if you have spent 5 days getting here). The Fire
Demon is not an easy enemy to defeat! If you win, you
may search this dismal chamber; turn to 232.

376

There are two cowled creatures here with jet-black smooth
skins and featureless faces; they come flying at you, scratch-
ing at your face with their black talons, You must fight
them together, Each Attack Round, roll dice to determine
the Attack Strengths for yourself and for each of your two
enemies; the combatant with the highest Attack Strength
will be the one who inflicts damage that Attack Round. If
you manage to kill one of the Nightgaunts, of course, you
will be in one-to-one combat with the remaining survivor.

SKILL STAMINA
First NIGHTGAUNT 8 8
Second NIGHTGAUNT 8 8

377-378

If you win, there’s nothing for you in this bare chamber, so
you leave and make your way down to the end of the
passageway. Turn to 107.

377
The Linkcut spell can be used to sever a link in a chain, or a

buckle, cut a rope or any similar action. You will be asked if
you wish to cast this spell at appropriate times later in the
adventure. Return to 360.

| 378

At the end of the day you find a dead Snow Fox in a
snare. The animal died only recently; the body is stil] warm
but will swiftly chill. You can take the Snow Fox with you if
you want to; add it to your Possessions. You scoop out a snow-
hole in a drift and snuggle up inside it: an old barbarian
trick, but one worth knowing, You must eat a meal before
you go to sleep, but your night's rest is undisturbed.

In the morning, you must eat another meal. Then you set
off into the increasingly steep, rocky slopes ahead, following
the fire-blasted path of the fiery killer from the sky, Walking
is hard work, and your calves ache with the pain; you have
to stop and rub your protesting leg muscles several times
during the day. At last, at the top of one peak, looking
down you see a valley a good few kilometres ahead — and
a thick carpet of smoke. You know that the Sphere must
have come to rest there; the trail leads right up to it. It will
take over a day to get there, so you redouble your efforts,
Struggling along, you see footprints ahead of you: a trail
leading towards you and then slipping away in an obvious
fall, descending into some pine scrub below. If you want to

379-380

detour and investigate — losing time — turn to 31. If you
want to press ahead, turn to 245,

379
You walk a few stealthy paces down a dimly lit passageway

with smooth black walls, looking out for guards — but you
see none. You soon come to a three-way junction within
the gently humming, warm and slightly smoky body of the
Sphere. It’s obvious that each of these passages continues for
some distance; the interior of the Sphere is clearly bigger
than the outside size would seem to indicate was possible
This is obviously a very magical creation! Will you:

Take the right-hand passage? Tum to 118

Take the left-hand passage? Tum to 37

Head straight on? Turn to 279
380

Luck is on your side. There is a secret compartment at the
bottom of the smal! box the Dark EIf kept his weybread in.
He obviously didn’t have time to get this to prepare
himself for fighting you. Opening it, you find a small vial
of purple liquid. This is a Potion of Speed. You can drink it
at any time, except during a combat. Its effects will Jast for
just one combat ~ the first one which takes place after you
have drunk it. For the first three rounds of that combat, you are
empowered to strike twice at your enemy. Your first attack is
resolved normally; for your second attack, you roll dice to
determine Attack Strength as normal. If you have the higher
Attack Strength, your second attack inflicts damage. If your
opponent has the higher Attack Strength, he manages to
parry or dodge your second attack, but he can’t himself
attack you. A valuable potion — use it well! Now tum to 120
381-383

381
The Tower of Airy Light has wonderful ice gargoyle
omamentation, superb baroque guttering and comices, a
delight to the eye! Beams of colour flicker inside — which
makes you a little apprehensive ~ but you open the door
and peer inside, The simple chamber you enter is roomy,
and the chill of the wind blowing outside does not penetrate
here, You see that there are beams of light of various
colours here, but there are no doors or stairs; so you guess
that they must be teleporting bears. If you want to explore
this Tower, you're going to have to try them out. Will you:

Enter the blue light beam here? Turn to 364
Enter the green light beam here? Tum to 15
Think better of it and search another part
of the Ice Palace? Turn to 23
382

With foul breath reeking from its gaping maw, the mon-
strous worm is only too glad to find a creature so eager to
be its dinner! Fight it normally.

POLAR WORM SKILL 9 STAMINA 11

If you win, you can spend some time cutting up the corpse
in order to look for unexpected treasure in its guts (turn to
73) or continue your journey {turn to 282).

383
You place the incense-bumer on an ice ledge near the
organ, and the incense within it begins to smoke gently.
Perfumed, cleansing, blue-white vapours rise gently into the
air, and the Elven spirits are greatly pleased. They murmur
gently to one another about the resanctifying of their

384-387

cathedral, and the High Priest of the group comes forward
and pronounces a blessing upon you, Gain 1 tuck point,
and you can regain 1 SKILL point if you have lost any SKILL
points during your adventure, Tum to 56.

384
You kill the Dark Elf, who slumps to the floor, a dark pool
of blood spreading across the ice. Killing a surrendering
creature in cold blood like this is an evil act. Lose 1 point of
HONOuR and turn to 310

385
You enter an antechamber leading into a larger, brighter
chamber beyond. You can dimly make out an ice anvil and
tools in the distance but, before you are able to move in
that direction, a wave of intense cold hits you, It is very,
very cold indeed in here. If you want to use a spell, turn to
332, If you don’t want to, or can’t, use a spell here, tum to 115.

386
You flee down the stairs and passages and make your
escape, running as far as you can, and then hiding behind a
cover of rocks. The Sphere glows a brilliant orange and
then explodes in a ball of flaming rock. You have succeeded!
Or so you think, anyway; turn to 114.

387
The wretched creature hangs around all moming; by after-
noon, snow is beginning to fall, lightly at first but then
much more heavily. Your excessive caution has cost you a
full day; you must eat another meal and spend another
night in this cave. Tum to 308.

388-389

388

You walk up the wide stone stairs as quietly as possible,
ducking into an alcove and hiding just in time as a snake-
headed Demon and a gibbering frog-like underling come
slithering past. You don’t want any trouble with minions,
you're after the main targets here. You sweat in the heat,
which gets worse with every breath you raggedly draw as
you clamber up the interminable steps. The heat and noise
seem to grow ever greater as you teach a heavily banded
and reinforced blackwood door. You force the door and
rush in, hoping to achieve surprise on the occupant. You
aren't going to be lucky on that score at least.

Beyond the door lies a chamber shaped like the inside of a
sphere, the only exit from which is another set of steps
across the room, leading upwards. In the middle of the
room stands a three-metre-tall, jet-black stone colossus,
with huge fists capable of smashing a man in half. The
Golem’s trunk-like legs of veined black stone end in smooth
spheres, which allow it to glide around in this chamber
You can hardly hope to do the same, You've got two
realistic choices here, Will you use a Potion of Flying, if
you have one, to try and get past the Golem to the
opposite steps and then use some other strategy (turn to
227)? If you don’t have a Potion of Flying, you will have to
fight the Golem (turn to 296).

389
You strike the Dark Elf with your weapon and distract him
from his spell. Turn to 35 to complete this combat, and you
may subtract 2 points from the sTAMINA score given for
your opponent in that paragraph.

399-393

390
You sneak past the corpses lying on the slabs, blue-grey

with the cold, and reach the far door without mishap. You
fling it open; turn to 79.

i De
Without any magical cover you fly upwards towards the
Tower. Now you must Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 153. If you are Unlucky, turn to 309,

392

The Dark Eif’s robe is an ordinary one, worthless to you.
His dagger, unfortunately, has a grip designed for Elven
hands. Yours wont fit it, and a needle slides from its hilt
and burns acid into your hand. You yelp in pain and drop
the hateful thing. Deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA.
What will you do, now that you can take the Dark Elf’s
keys? Will you:

Open the door at the top of the stairs? Turn to 164
Open the doar in the basement? Tum to 45
Leave and search somewhere else in the
Ice Palace? Tum to 23
393

Deduct 2 more meals from your Provisions, and you realize
this is pointless. The bear has a huge appetite and it gulps
down your rations in less than a minute, and then it’s
following you again! You're either going to have to fight
the bear (turn to 244) or evade it by climbing a tree (turn to

96).

394-396

394
You waste a crossbow bolt firing at the chain — but your

chances of hitting a chain jess than 2 centimetres thick at
this range is minimal and, even if you do hit it, you can’t
possibly sever a metal chaint You can try using a Potion of
Flying, if you have one (tum to 22), or a Linkcut spell if
you know one (turn to 249); or you can abandon this effort
and take the stairs back down (turn to $7).

39§
Roll two dice and add 1. If the total is less than or equal to

your SKILL, you stip and slide down the ramp, but safely. If
the total is greater than your skit, you lose your footing
and fall, banging your hip on hard stone and winding
yourself at the same time. Deduct 3 points from your
STAMINA. Turn to 370

396
When you kill the bear, the carcass slowly changes back
into the form of a barbarian! Cursed with were-bear form,
the poor wretch was a victim of a form of lycanthropy.
What other curses may these lands hold?

You check through the trapper’s possessions. He has a pile
of furs, which you scarcely need, a pouch with 6 Gold
Pieces, which you may take if you wish, enough food for 3
meals, which you may carry on his sled as extra Provisions,
and a pile of snares and traps, ugly, cruel things. There is
also a heavy bag of salt, which you can carry on the sled
for now; but if you leave the sled, you must carry this as a
Possession if you want to take it with you. You harness the
dogs and set off, glad to have some help on your journey
at last. Turn to 306.

397-400

397
You are back at the ground-floor chamber of the Tower of

Airy Light. Will you:

Enter the blue beam here? Turn to 364
Enter the green beam here? Turn to 15
Think better of it and search another part
of the Ice Palace? Turn to 23
398

You move around to the far side of the Sphere, doing what
any sensible person trying to sneak up unobserved would
do ~ which is precisely why there is a guard here, of
course. Suddenly a pair of skeletal talons tear at your back;
deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA. If you are still alive,
you tum to face a grinning, robed, skeletal figure rending at
you, and you must fight it.

DEMONIC SERVANT SKILL 8 STAMINA 7

if you win, turn to 344.

399
You just didn’t see the cowled, robed figure poised in mid-

air quickly enough; he was obscured by a puff of smoke,
and he fires a Lightning Bolt spell at you You are struck
by a crackling forked bolt which burns you and racks you
with agony for a few seconds. Deduct 5 points from your
STAMINA. If you are still alive, turn to 65,

400
The Elf-spirit turns to you. Elokinan is so radiant with light
that you can only just make out the features of his wise and

400

kindly face. He whispers softly to you as you manage to
get to your feet. “You have saved Allansia from that
wretch, and probably most of Titan, There’s a Demon who
may come looking for you, but I believe I may be able to
do something about that. I owe you this, for, by your
destroying Zeverin and his evil, the last of the strands of
Fate holding me in this world are broken. | am free,’ and
the spirit’s voice breaks with emotion at his release, Elokinan
is beginning to fade into the spirit world, but his last act is
to place his hands on your forehead for a few seconds.
They are coal, and you seem to feel a spring breeze round
you, carrying scents of green shoots and earth and new life
‘Relem will never find you,’ Elokinan smiles, ‘not in a
thousand years.’ And then he is gone.

Not far away you see a thin plume of smoke; a few score
stumbled steps takes you to a trapper’s hut in the near
distance. You smell food cooking: maybe some will be spare
and there will be a bed for the night for you, You take a
last look at the cloud of smoke rising from the debris of the
Tower; you think back over your completed quest and tum
on your heel, to find a friendly smile on the face of the man
standing outside the hut. ‘You look done in,’ he says
‘Could you do with some hot food?’ The prospect has
never seemed so good... ,

