~ a me “ane
a

4 ot"YACKSON*© |
_ ge LIVINGSTONE |

” FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS

Over 13 million copies sold worldwide!

Ny

“
+
i
i

NOSMDV¥! JAGLS

() PRESENT |.

ANOLSONIATT NVI GNY

OPLL WOSUITED OYL

,
. 70450

uu

CAN $a %0 PAOTAO SAS

8 Soor'co
yl O NGS)

<

e
—

37

able to find one that isn’t too dangerous — provided
you can pay. How much money do you have? If you
have:

None Turn to 340
Only copper coins Turn to 228
Gold coins Turn to 168

The young fellow called Suiyuan is cut down even as
you are raising the sword aloft. There is a moment of
stillness, followed by cries of, ‘The sacred sword is with
us!’ The revolutionaries start to fight back and, simply
by force of numbers, oust the Dragon Guards; but more
than half the revolutionaries have fallen in the bitter
fighting. Their leader addresses you: ‘Now that Suiyuan
is dead, you must carry his torch. Take the sacred sword
to the capital. Appeal directly to Councillor Merzei — he
must listen to us!’ You protest that you know nothing
of the cause, but your words fall on deaf ears. You hurry
out of the city and head south. Turn to go.

38-39

38

The current sweeps you down the fissure, dashing you
against walls that have been worn smooth by the
gushing water. Lose 1 point of Temporary sTAMINA.
Water fills your ears and your nose and you gulp
down several mouthfuls by accident. Your head is
filled by a monstrous roaring sound. Jn an instant the
darkness gives way to blinding light and you tumble
through air filled with spray, before plunging into a
deep, dark pool. Summoning the last reserves of your
strength you splash out, finally dragging yourself from
the pool to slump on the bank like a wet rag. You
have escaped from the prison mine! Tum to 263.

39
‘Well, a sage once wrote that no man may live under the

same sky as the killer of his father,’ Yao says. ‘But
another sage wrote that nothing justifies murder. For
myself, the only sage I believe in is the herb which goes
into my cooking pot,’ He stares deeply into his bowl,
then continues. ‘I may be able to help you, but first you
must do mea small favour. A month ago, an eager young
fellow called Suiyuan came to me and asked if I would
help him in his cause — something to do with restoring
justice to the land. said I’d help him, but I must confess
Puffin Books

THE CRIMSON TIDE

In the Isles of the Dawn, far to the east, mighty forces strive to
gain power over the land. Wandering bands of mercenaries act
as they please, looting, burning and pillaging the once-peaceful
countryside

YOU are the child of a rice-farming family, unskilled in combat
but filled with dreams of heroism and glory. When mercenaries
ative in your village you are flung into an adventure which
tests your courage to the limits. Your father’s dying wish is for
you to learn the martial arts of the Baochou Monastery. But is
this the best way to bring his killer to justice?

As you grow and learn, you must face the horrors of the wide
world beyond the village - a world of strange customs and
malignant creatures. Many encounters await you: with sorcerers,
monks, samurai and malevolent spirits. Many fates could befall
you: slavery, betrayal, imprisonment or death. But in the end it
will be your courage, skill and knowledge that will help you win
the ultimate battle: to conquer the crimson tide of revenge!

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you need to embark on
this fabulous adventure, which is complete with its elaborate
combat system and a score sheet to record your progress.

Many fearsome dangers lie ahead and your success is by no
means certain, Powerful adversaries are ranged against you and
it’s up to YOU to decide which route to follow, which dangers
to risk and which foes to fight

Fighting Fantasy Gamebaoks

1 THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP
MOUNTAIN

2, THE CITADEL OF CHAOS

3 THE FOREST OF DOOM

4 STARSHIP TRAVELLER

5 CITY OF THIEVES

6. DEATHTRAP DUNGEON

7 ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING
& SCORPION SWAMP

9. CAVERNS OF THE SNOW WITCH
{0 HOUSE OF HELL
11 TALISMAN OF DEATH
12, SPACE ASSASSIN
13, FREEWAY FIGHTER

14 TEMPLE OF TERROR
15 THE RINGS OF KETHER

16. SEAS OF BLOOD

17 APPOINTMENT WITH FEAR.
18, REBEL, PLANET

19 DEMONS OF THE DEEP
20 SWORD OF THE SAMURAI
21 TRIAL OF CHAMPIONS
2z. ROBOT COMMANDO
23 MASKS OF MAYHEM
24. CREATURE OF HAVOC

25 BENEATH NIGHTMARE CASTLE
26 CRYPT OF THE SORCERER

Steve Jackson’s SORCERYI
1. THE SHAMUTANTI HILLS

2 KHARE — CITYPORT OF TRAPS

27 STAR STRIDER

26 PHANTOMS OF FEAR

29 MIDNIGHT ROGUE

30. CHASMS OF MALICE

31. BATTLEBLADE WARRIOR

32 SLAVES OF THE ABYSS

33 SKY LORD

34 STEALER OF SOULS

35 DAGGERS OF DARKNESS

36 ARMIES OF DEATH

37, PORTAL OF EVIL

38, VAULT OF THE VAMPIRE

39. FANGS OF FURY

40, DEAD OF NIGHT

41, MASTER OF CHAOS

42, BLACK VEIN PROPHECY

43, THE KEEP OF THE LICH-LORD

44 LEGEND OF THE SHADOW
WARRIORS

45, SPECIAL STALKERS

46. TOWER OF DESTRUCTION

4? THE CRIMSON TIDE

48. MOONRUNNER

49. SIEGE OF SARDATH

$0. RETURN TO FIRETOP MOUNTAIN

51, PLAGUE OF THE UNDEAD

3, THE SEVEN SERPENTS
4. THE CROWN OF KINGS

FiGHTING FANTASY — The Introductory Role-Playing Game
THE RIDDLING REAVER — Four Thrilting Adventures

Fighting Fantasy Novels
THE TROLLTOOTH WARS
DEMONSTEALER
SHADOWMASTER

The Advanced Fighting Fantasy System

OUT OF THE PIT — Fighting Fantasy Monsters

TITAN — The Fighting Fantasy World

DUNGEONEER — An Introduction to the World of Role-Playing Games

e° ‘The

ALIN

Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone

AS

present

Paul Mason

Hlustrated by Terry Oakes

Puffin Books

Dedicated to Keiko, Ambassador of Ai

PUFFIN BOOKS

Published by the Penguin Group
Penguin Books Ltd, 27 Wrights Lanc, London W8 STZ, England
Penguin Books USA Inc., 375 Hudson Sireel, New York, New York 10014, USA
Penguin Books Australis Lid, Ringwood, Victoria, Australia
Penguin Books Canada Ltd, 10 Alcorn Avenue, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M4V 3B2
Penguin Books (NZ) Lid, 182-190 Wairau Road, Auckland 10, New Zealand

Penguin Books Lid, Registered Offices: Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England

First published 1992
3579 10864

Concept copyright @ Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone, 1992
Texl copyright © Paul Mason, 1992
Illustrations copyright © Terry Oakes, 1992
All rights reserved

The mora! right of the author bas been asserted

Printed in England by Clays Lid, St Ives ple
Filmset in Monophoto Palatino

Except in the United States of America, this book ts sold subject
lo the condition that it shell nol, by way of trade or otherwise, be lent,
re-sold, hired out, or otherwise circulaled withoul (be publisher's
prior consent in any form of binding or cover other than thai in
which il is published and without a similar condition including this
condition being imposed on the subsequent purchaser

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION
7

ADVENTURE SHEET
16

BACKGROUND
18

THE CRIMSON TIDE
20
INTRODUCTION

You begin this adventure as a teenager, the child of a
poor peasant family in the Isles of the Dawn. Before
embarking on your adventure, you must first determine
your own strengths and weaknesses. Use dice to find
out your initial scores. As you grow older in the
course of the adventure you will find that these will
increase quite rapidly. On pages 16-17 there is an
Adventure Sheet which you may use to record the
details of your adventure. On it you will find boxes
for recording your SKILL, STAMINA, FEROCITY and
LUCK scores, as well as your Age.

You are advised either to record your scores on the
Adventure Sheet in pencil, or make photocopies of the
sheet for use in future adventures.

Skill, Stamina, Ferocity and Luck

Roll 1 die and enter this total in the sxitzt box on the
Adventure Sheet.

Roll 2 dice and enter this total in the sTAMINA box.

Roll 1 die, add 6 to this number and enter the total in
the Luck box.

There is also a FEROCITY box. Roll 1 die, add half of
your STAMINA fo this number (halves round up), and
enter the total in the FERociTY box.
For reasons that will be explained below, your scores
in SKILL, STAMINA, LUCK and FeROcITY will change
constantly during the adventure. You must keep an
accurate record of these scores, and for this reason you
are advised either to wnite small in the boxes or to
keep an eraser handy. Unlike other Fighting Fantasy
gamebooks, The Crimson Tide begins with you as a
child. For this reason your SKILL, STAMINA and FEROC-
ITy may eventually exceed the number you roll at the
start. For sKILL and FEROCITY you should simply keep
track of their current levels until you reach the age of
18. So far as STAMINA is concerned, you should keep
track of both your Permanent sTAMINA and your
Temporary STAMINA. The paragraphs will make it
clear whether it is Permanent or Temporary STAMINA
that is affected, but you must remember that combat
always affects Temporary STAMINA. Your LUCK score,
untike all the above, may not exceed its Initial score,
and you should never erase this.

Your sxkILt score reflects your swordsmanship and
general fighting expertise; the higher the better. Your
STAMINA score reflects your general constitution, your
will to survive, your determination and overall fimess;
the higher your sTAMINA score, the longer you will be
able to survive. If your sTAMINA score drops to zero,
your character is dead: stop reading, close the book
and then start again from the beginning. Your Luck
score indicates how naturally lucky a person you are.
Luck — and magic — are facts of life in the fantasy
kingdom you are about to explore. Your FEROCITY is
a measure of your thirst for vengeance. Being ferocious

is useful in battle, but you are less able to control
yourself. If your FEROCITY score drops to zero or less,
make a note of the paragraph number you are at and
turn at once to paragraph 200,

Age

You begin the book as a thirteen-year-old. Months
and years may pass in the course of your adventure,
however, and you should keep track of your Age in
the box provided. Only amend your Age when told
to do so in a paragraph. Whenever your Age increases,
you should do two things: reduce your FEROcITY by
2, and return your Temporary sTAMINA to its Perma-
nent value, for time is a great healer. As soon as you
reach the age of eighteen, you will no longer be able
to increase either your sktLL or your Permanent
STAMINA.

Combat

You will often come across paragraphs in the book in
which you are instructed to fight a creature of some
sort. An option to flee may be given, but if not — or if
you choose to attack the creature anyway — you must
resolve the battle as described below.

First record your opponent’s SKILL and STAMINA scores
in the first empty Monster Encounter Box on your
Adventure Sheet. The scores for every potential adver-
sary are given each time you have an encounter which
may end in combat. The sequence for combat is then:

. Roll 2 dice for your opponent, Add its sxiLL score.
This total is the opponent's Attack Strength,

. Roll 2 dice for yourself, Add the number rolled to
your current skILL score, This total is your Attack
Strength.

If your Attack Strength is higher than that of your
opponent, you have wounded it: proceed to step 4
If your opponent's Attack Strength is higher than
yours, it has wounded you: proceed to step 5. If
both Attack Strength totals are the same, you have
avoided each other’s blows — start the next Attack
Round from step 1, above,

. You have wounded the creature, so deduct 2 points
from its STAMINA score. (You may use your LUCK
here to do additional damage — see below.) Now
proceed to step 6,

. This creature has wounded you, so deduct 2 points
from your own STAMINA score, (Again you may
use LUCK at this stage — see below.)

Make the appropriate adjustments either to the
opponent's or to your own STAMINA score (and to
your LUCK score if you used Luck — see below)

7, Begin the next Attack Round by repeating steps 1—
6, This sequence continues until the sTaMINA score
of either you or your adversary has been reduced to
zero (death)

Escaping

In some paragraphs you will be given the option of
escaping from a fight should things be going badly for
you. However, if you do run away, your opponent
automatically gets in one free attack on you (deduct 2
STAMINA points) as you flee — such is the price of
cowardice. (Note that you may use LUCK to minimize
this wound in the normal way — see below.) You may
Escape only if this option is specifically given to you
in the relevant paragraph.

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either in battle
or when you find yourself in a situation in which you
could be either lucky or unlucky (on each occasion you
are invited to Test your Luck in the relevant paragraph),

you have to call on your Luck to make the outcome more

favourable. But beware! Using Lucx is a risky business,
and if you are unlucky, the results could be disastrous.
The procedure for Testing your Luck is as follows: roll 2
dice, If the number rolled is equal to or less than your
current LUCK score, you have been Lucky and the
result will go in your favour. If the number rolled is
higher than your current LUCK score, you have been
Unlucky and you will be penalized.
Each time you Test your Luck, you must subtract 1
point from your current Luck score. You will soon
come to realize that the more you rely on your Luck,
the more risky this will become.

Using Luck in Battles

In certain paragraphs you will be told to Test your Luck
and will then discover the consequences of being
Lucky or Unlucky. However, you always have the
option of using your Lucx in battle, either to inflict a
more damaging wound on an opponent you have just
wounded or to reduce the seriousness of a wound
your opponent has just inflicted on you.

If you have just won an Attack Round, you may Test
your Luck as described above. If you are Lucky, you
have inflicted a severe wound on your opponent and
may deduct 2 extra points from the creature’s STAMINA
score. However, if you are Unlucky, the wound was a
mere graze and you must restore 1 point to its
STAMINA (so that, instead of inflicting the usual 2
points of damage, you have now caused only 1).

If you have just lost an Attack Round and have been
wounded, you may Test your Luck to try to lessen the
effect of the wound. If you are Lucky, you have
managed to avoid the full impact of the blow; restore
1 point of STAMINA (so that, instead of causing 2
points of damage on you, it has done only 1). If you
are Unlucky, you have had to take a more serious
blow; deduct 1 extra STAMINA point.

Remember: you must subtract 1 point from your LUCK
score every time you Test your Luck regardless of the
outcome,

Restoring Skill, Stamina, Ferocity and Luck

Skill

As you grow and learn, your skILLt score should
increase. However, there will come a point when you
can learn no more — when you reach the age of
eighteen, At this point, write down your Initial sxiLi
value on your Adventure Sheet to indicate that it may
increase no further. From this time on, only a special
weapon will allow you to increase your sKILL; but
remember that only one weapon can be used at a time!
You cannot claim two skit bonuses for carrying two
magic swords.

Stamina and Provisions
Your Permanent sTAMINA score will increase as you
train your body. However, when you reach the age of
eighteen, it can increase no more. At this point, your
STAMINA has reached its Initial value and you should
draw a circle round the number of your Permanent
STAMINA on your Adventure Sheet

Your Temporary sTAMINA score will change a lot
during your adventure as you fight monsters and
undertake arduous tasks. As you near your goal, your
STAMINA level may become dangerously low and
battles may be particularly risky, so be careful!

In the course of the adventure you may acquire Provi-
sions. You may rest and eat at any time except when
engaged in battle. Eating a meal restores up to 4
STAMINA points. When you eat a meal, add up to 4

points to your STAMINA score and deduct 1 of your
Provisions. (A separate Provisions Remaining Box is
provided on the Adventure Sheet for this purpose.)
Remember that you have a long way to go, so use
your Provisions wisely! Remember also that Provisions
and potions may never restore your STAMINA score to
a number higher than its permanent value.

Ferocity
As you are affected by the events of your adventure,
SO your FEROCITY may increase or decrease. Full details
will be given in the appropriate paragraphs.

Luck
Additions to your LUCK score are awarded during the
adventure when you have been particularly lucky;
when this occurs, details will be given in the relevant
paragraphs. Your LUCK score may never exceed its
Initial value. Unlike the other three scores, the number
you roll for Luck is its Initial value.

Equipment

You start your adventure with no equipment apart from
the clothes you stand up in and a wooden sword, but
you will probably acquire various items during your
travels. Keep a careful note of anything you may pick up.

Notes

In the course of this adventure you will have to make
notes in the appropriate box of your Adventure Sheet.
You should make sure that you copy the words down
correctly, and that you list them in the order in which
you come across them. Since you may have to make
several notes, try to write small.
“ADVENTURE SHEET excounrsr soxes

mae sraMiNa Tuck ae sae Sie
Tonpoary Temporary Teorey

Peat Permanent Pennie

FEROCTY a MONEY sae

FQUEMENT ST Se

PROVISIONS REMAINING

za ae

BACKGROUND

Your world is a world of mud and water. Ever since
you were a baby, all you've known are the simple
baked-mud houses of your village and the vast watéry
expanses of rice paddies, interspersed here and there
by pastures, Although you have not yet entered your
fourteenth summer, You are used to working in the
fields. You are lucky to have been bom strong and
hardy — at the end of a day spent planting tender
shoots in the mud you still have some energy left for
play and for practice. You fancy yourself a mighty
warrior, like those who occasionally ride by, so you
have carved a sharp stick for your sword and swing it
in circles above your head. At first the other children
laughed at you but, after you killed a giant Mudworm,
they learned new respect for you.

The events of the outside world rarely concern you.
Even when you hear that there is civil war in the land,
your only concern is that the soldiers won’t harm your
rice crops. Rice is a luxury; a good rice crop means
wealth ... and most goes in taxes to the tribunal. No,
you care little for the great events of the kingdom.
After all, one king is much like another, Poo Ta has
never done you any favours, so what do you care if he
is replaced by some other ‘divine’ ruler?

Then one day the foreign mercenaries arrive in your
village The gleam of their black lacquered armour

makes them look like horribly distended beetles. Their
gimlet eyes shine with evil intensity. The villagers who
stand in their way are ruthlessly hacked down, They
collect all the rice and round up all the women,
including your mother, Your father protests and, as
you watch, the leader of the mercenaries cuts him
down with his narrow, slashing, curved blade. ‘The
new king seeks slaves,’ says the coarse-tongued bar-
barian, ‘and you scum aren’t going to get in my way,’

You stare at the man, fixing his appearance in your
mind. His armour is composed of scales, laced together,
with occasional plates and spikes covering vulnerable
areas, His helmet is wide and his face is covered by a
fierce, bestial mask; it is a scowling parody of a man,
with bulging brows and wickedly curved horns. Through
large holes the evil brown eyes of your father’s attacker
return your stare with what could almost be amusement.

Then, with a yell, the mercenaries mount their horses
and leave, driving their captives before them with
whips, The horses make slow progress through the
flooded fields, and it seems to take an eternity before
the killers disappear from sight.

Your father dies in your arms. His last words are, ‘Go
to the Baochou Monastery. Avenge me and save your
mother!’

Now turn to paragraph 1.

eee ee —

I

You leave your village with several other youngsters,
all determined to seek revenge. You carry with you
your wooden sword (make a note of it on your
Equipment List) and some food {note down that you
have 2 Provisions). The paddy fields lie all about you,
with the sun sparkling on the still, muddy water, You
make your way along a path on the top of a polder —
the low earth-barrier separating one rice field from the
next. Several kilometres distant is the local town of
Yenshu, in which the magistrate of your district holds
his tribunal. You have never been there yourself, but
your cousin Quan visited Yenshu’s temple two years
ago and so he knows the way. Not much is said on
the journey until you arrive at the road which leads to
Yenshu. Here, where the polder tracks join the wider
thoroughfare, a small settlement is to be found: an inn
and the huts of several artisans. The foreign mercen-
aries have been here, too, The buildings are scorched
and blackened from fires, and broken pottery lies
strewn all around. Suddenly little Hani lets out a shriek
and points: the bloodied corpse of another victim
sprawls amid the wreckage of the horse trough.

‘We must have vengeance upon these murderers,’ says
Sunai, the eldest of you, clenching her fist,

‘The magistrate in Yenshu will deal with them,’ replies
Quan, who already has the bearing of a monk, though
he is not yet even a novice.

You stand among the wreckage, discussing the fate
which you hope will befall the mercenaries, while
2

Sunai counts the slain. Quan says he believes the
invaders are from far across the seas — from the land
of Hachiman, where the men are savage and primitive,
and accustomed to mistreating women. ‘Barbarians
such as these,’ he points out, ‘have a crude religion
reflecting only a fragment of Arn, and so have no
foundation upon which to build a civilization. Their
land is ruled by warriors who are constantly warring
with one another,’

Sunai finishes her unpleasant task and reports that six
men lie dead here Now you must hurry to the
magistrate to report the matter and set the wheels of
justice in motion, But the barbarians may still be stalking
the land. If you hurry along the road to Yenshu, you
may catch up with them. On the other hand, if you
travel to Yenshu along the polder-paths, the journey
will take much longer, and it will be more arduous for
the younger children. You have the wooden sword in
your hand. It seems that you are the leader. If you decide
to travel along the road, tum to g2. If you would
prefer to make your way among the rice paddies, tum
to 288.

2
As you crawl out through the opening, you slip on a
patch of slime and tumble head first into the river below.
A current grips you, sweeping you along past the river
wall; it is all you can do to keep your head above water.
Ahead of you a smal] sailing boat drifts into your path. If
you try to get a handhold on it as you pass, turn to 83. If
you concentrate on staying afloat, turn to 175

3-6

You move forward to step between the doors, but
you are blocked by an invisible barrier. A bell begins
to toll and shouts come from within. The monk who
escorted you here backs off, making frantic gestures,
then tums and runs away. If you now hurry down the
mountain, turn to 213. If you stay to see what all the
fuss is about, turn to 388.

4
You retum to the junction of passages by the double

doors, Meng looks at them thoughtfully, but says
nothing. Now do you:

Return through the double doors? Turn to 230

Go down the left-hand passage? Turn to 58
Go down the right-hand passage? Turn to 193
Go down the tunnel ahead? Turn to 158

Since you didn’t have any success with the magistrate
in Yenshu, Sunai suggests that she should approach
the prefect. She sets out next morning, promising that
she won't rest until she has persuaded someone to
take action. While she’s gone, you may wander the
city in search of information (turn to 119) or await her
return in the safety of Bofu’s house (turn to 239).

6
Before the man’s body hits the ground, you are scamp-
ering after the farmers. A few arrows swish past your

7-9

head, but the lumbering, armour-clad mercenaries are
too weighed-down to pursue you, and their horses are
scattering, away from the fire. Tum to 89.

You have to pay 1 Gold Piece to obtain a space on
the floor of the boarding house’s main room, but the
proprietor also promises you food. He is true to his
word and a hot stew with pickled vegetables does
much to revive you. In the morning you are forced to
consider your next move. Will you:

Search for employment? Turn to 328
Visit the tribunal and attempt to bribe

the constables to take action? Turn to 292
Risk making enquiries about the

mercenaries in the shadiest inns of

the town? Turn to 210
Leave the town and travel north? Turn to 18

8
The priests look at you with long faces and sad eyes.
‘You are a parasite upon humanity,’ their spokesman
says. “You understand that we cannot allow you to
live?’ The priests close in. Your adventure ends here.

9
You creep along the foul-smelling tunnel. Side-passages
lead off, but all of them are too small for you to enter,
After a while you hear faint voices coming from
ahead. You make your way stealthily to where a flight
of steps leads up from the sewer. The voices come

IO—13

ftom a chamber at the top of the stairs. If you continue
along the tunnel, turn to 63. If you sneak up the stairs
and eavesdrop, turn to 116. If you call out, tum to 392.

Io
Glumly, you bow to the magistrate and make your
way from his tribunal. You dare not disobey his orders
~ his constables are fierce and well armed — so you
head straight for the gate. Note down the word ‘king’
on your Adventure Sheet and turn to 115.

II
The alarm is raised by shouting and the crashing of
gongs. Before you can react, Royal Guards surround
vou, close in and strike. Your adventure ends here.

12
in a flurry of whirling wood the staves beat down
upon you. A spike of pain shoots through your head,
and you black out.

When you come round, you are lying in a dirty back-
alley. All your possessions are missing (cross them off
your Adventure Sheet), and you have lost 2 points of
Temporary stamina. Translucent shapes dance before
your eyes, testimony to the damage inflicted by the
constables’ staves. You find it hard to concentrate, but
somehow you manage to haul yourself to your feet
and stagger off. Turn to 251.

13
Although there are still pockets of resistance, the civil

SSS aa a ss SS

14-16

war is over. The God-King Poo Ta died in the last
great battle and, in the absence of any legitimate heir,
the hero of the hour, Maior, was installed as the new
king. Some say that Maior used sorcery to seize the
throne, but your drinking companion believes that a
good strong ruler will do the isles a power of good,
no matter how he came by his crown. Tur to 156.

14

It is a Jong journey through unfamiliar countryside.
The locals are suspicious, so only occasionally do you
find one who is prepared to put you up for a night.
Add 1 year to your Age. In one village you hear tell
of a band of warriors from Hachiman who are said to
be roaming the countryside to the east. The other
children are scared, for they believe these may be the
mercenaries who sacked your village. If you digress in
order to encounter the warriors, you will have to bid
your friends goodbye; tum to 349. If you continue on
to the capital, Shoudu, turn to 289

15
The barbarians look you up and down as you enter
their camp. You notice that one of them is staring at
you intently. ‘I know that face,’ he grates. ‘He’s a
young whippersnapper from one of the villages we
demolished near Yenshu.’ Turn to 206.

16
You pretend to be asleep and, as the warder puts
down the bowl of gruel, you leap on him. Roll 3 dice.
If the total of the dice is less than the sum of your

17-18

SKILL and FEROCITY, turn to 311. If the dice roll is
equal to or greater than your sKILL plus FEROCITY,
turn to 143.

17

The demonic fish-man transforms itself back into water
and splashes into the stream once more. You stand
motionless for a moment, panting with the exertion
and half expecting Yuemo to reappear. Instead, a tiny
fish leaps up out of the water and into your waiting
hand. Its scales are golden, and it stares up at you with
a look akin to intelligence in its eye. Pocketing your
strange catch (note it down on your Equipment List),
you wade out of the stream. If you carry on in the
direction you were originally going, turn to 380. If
you turn round and retrace your footsteps back the
way you came, turn to 129.

18

You walk for days, sometimes resting in the huts of
fiendly farmers but more often sleeping rough. You
are used to hard work, but now you drive yourself to
spend every waking hour on the march. Add 2 points
to your Permanent sTAMINA. Eventually you are climb-
ing through vine-covered hills to overlook the city of
Traole, provincial capital of this region. If you enter
the city, turn to 377. If you continue past it, towards
the mountains which loom on the horizon, note down
the word ‘offers’ on your Adventure Sheet and turn to
Br.

I)~21

19
Meng points to the double doors at the far end of the
chamber. Each of the elegantly designed doors has a
handle. If you open the left-hand door, turn to 8s. If
you open the right-hand door, turn to 363. If you
push both handles together, turn to 307

20
Merzei pulls aside a hanging drape and indicates a
bare passageway. “This leads to the king’s private
quarters. Good fortune be with you,’ he says.

At the end of the passage is a wooden panel. It takes a
zew moments for you to work out how to slide the
panel to one side, then you step cautiously into the
chamber beyond. The king is sitting at a simple reading
desk; he is a large man with strangely curled hair and a
proud nose. When he looks up, his dark-brown eyes
seern to bore into your soul, but he betrays neither
surprise nor fear, Even though he is dressed simply,
Xing Maior’s regal bearing is overwhelming. You fall
:o your knees and avert your gaze. “You are here
seeking justice,’ says Maior. ‘Speak your case.’

Once again you tell your story, complaining that the
authorities allow mercenaries to do what they like, and
describing how your mother was enslaved by the
zarbarians who killed your father. If you have the
golden sword, turn to 218. Otherwise turn to 107

21
You join the mercenaries in their orgy of destruction
as they smash up the village. They yell and shriek as

22

they chase after the poor farmers. If a farmer puts up
any kind of resistance, the mercenaries surround him
and cut him to pieces, Although the bloodlust sickens
you, you go along with it, even setting fire to a
couple of huts to make it look as though you are
joining in. Then it is over. You heft bags of grain on

to the backs of some packhorses and herd together a —

few captive farmers. Your hopes of finding out where
the mercenaries send their captives are dashed, how-
ever. The leader sends them off with a guard of only
two men, both trusted lieutenants.

You continue to ride southwards. After a few days the
two lieutenants rejoin the group, bringing with them
bulging bags of money, and the gold is distributed. As
a new recruit, your share is just 1 Gold Piece.

Several days later, you ambush a small party of samurai
— warriors from the land of Hachiman — escorting a
covered litter. For the attack, you find yourself in the
front rank, facing one of the deadly fighters.

SAMURAI
If you defeat the Samurai, turn to 98

SKILL 11 STAMINA 12

22
Most of your spells take time to cast, but you know
one that is perfect for this situation. You fling out
your hand and a bolt of forked lightning leaps from it
full into the chest of the mercenary leader. A normal
person would simply be shaken, but he is encased in
metal. The power of the spell is amplified a hundred-
fold and, with a blinding flash, a roar and the acrid

%3~25

scent of charred flesh, the hulking figure falls. Turn to
305.

23

You charge down the darkened slope, trying to
avoid the loose rocks which threaten to trip you at
every step. Behind you, the howls die away and
you check your headlong descent. From directly
ahead you can hear the rushing of a stream, so you
veer off to the left and press on into the valley.
Tum to 129.

24

You talk to an old barber who is plying his trade in
the streets. He is friendly towards you and, when
you guide the conversation round to the subject of
the rebels, he makes it clear that he knows something
about them. He agrees to arrange for you to meet
them later that night, inside a deserted building full
of machinery. He warns you that, if you go along,
you have to consider yourself as one of them.
Several hours later, you follow the barber’s directions
to the building and soon find yourself in the middle
of a gathering of desperate revolutionaries. Turn to

290.

25
After a short walk, you find yourself outside the
boarding house in which the others spent the night.
They have slept late; as they rub the sleep from their
eyes, you tell them of your conversation with your
mncle. Turn to 296.

eee

26—28

26
The prisoners pour out of their cell; they hug you and
pat you on the back, then set about releasing ali the
other prisoners, including your friends. Sunai protests
that it is wrong to go against the authorities, but
nothing she can say will dissuade you as you make
your way to the door at the end of the corridor, You
burst out, overpowering the guards, and try to get out
of the tribunal building. Constables bar your way, but
there are too many of you. You charge out into the
courtyard and make for the gates. There, a small
detachment of constables prepare to hold off your
attack. You face one of them.

CONSTABLE
If you defeat the constable, turn to 110.

SKILL 5 STAMINA 6

27
The other figure is wearing robes similar to yours, but
his face is painted bone white. As soon as he sees you,
he crouches. If you have the word ‘wood’ on your
Adventure Sheet, turn to 373; otherwise, tum to 132.

28
You find several silver ingots in a pouch on the belt of
one of your attackers. You are just turning your
attention to the other body when the constables arrive
Your protestations of innocence fall on deaf ears. You
are dragged before the magistrate, who is told how
you were caught red-handed looting the bodies of
your victims. The evidence is stacked against you —
even the bloodstained weapon proclaims you the

29~32

murderer. The magistrate is not a lenient man. He
sentences you to death by a hundred and one cuts,

29
Write down the golden sword on your Egurpment
List: Whenever you use this weapon in combat, you
may add 2 to your Attack Strength. Although it’s
quite dark now, you resume your journey. Turn to
295.

You can search for an inn, in the hope of tracing the
mercenaries (turn to 36), or go to the temple in search
of divine guidance (turn to 258).

31
Write down the word ‘never’ on your Adventure Sheet.

-itHe Hani’s shrieks fade away as you splash through
the paddy field.

After some time you catch up with Sunai, Quan and
the others, but Hani is not with them. Downcast, you
Prepare to make your way to Yenshu along the
polder-paths. Tum to 288.

You take up a stance as Zhanshi approaches. ‘You're a
monk’ the leader exclaims. Turn to 206,

33-36

You make a small offering at the Altar of Earnest
Entreaty, then file out into the courtyard, where a
priest is addressing a respectful crowd of worshippers
He is complaining about the increasing drift away
from the worship of Am and blaming it on the
increasing presence in the isles of foreigners. He says
that the delegation from Hachiman, who were in the
city recently, were no more than ignorant barbarians
and he hopes that they have no success in the capital
city, whither they are now headed, If you decide to
nead south towards Shoudu yourself, turn to gg. If,
‘nstead, you set off northwards, turn to 81,

34

in a quiet corner of the pool you waylay one of the
inn’s less unpleasant inhabitants. In between gulps of
neated wine he tells you that he recently saw a body
of soldiers from Hachiman passing through the town
on their way south. They seemed to be guarding
someone important, As he begins a long explanation
as to why the curved swords of Hachiman are stronger
than straight swords, you take your leave. Turn to
362.

_
>
oe
a
+
’
’
°
>
‘
A
“~
:
?
4

~\

~th4 beadew osestiil.
} Sanat 1B Lanse
a

35
You scoop up a handful of the papers and hurry out
into the night. Write on your Equipment List that you
fave paper talismans. Turn to 295,

36
There are plenty of inns in Traole, and you should be

errr lc eC CCC.

37

able to find one that isn’t too dangerous — provided
you can pay. How much money do you have? If you
have:

None Turn to 340
Only copper coins Turn to 228
Gold coins Turn to 168

The young fellow called Suiyuan is cut down even as
you are raising the sword aloft. There is a moment of
stillness, followed by cries of, ‘The sacred sword is with
us!’ The revolutionaries start to fight back and, simply
by force of numbers, oust the Dragon Guards; but more
than half the revolutionaries have fallen in the bitter
ichting. Their leader addresses you: ‘Now that Suiyuan
is dead, you must carry his torch. Take the sacred sword
to the capital. Appeal directly to Councillor Merzei — he
must listen to as!’ You protest that you know nothing
of the cause, but your words fall on deaf ears. You hurry
out of the city and head south. Turn to 99.

a

38-39

38

The current sweeps you down the fissure, dashing you
against walls that have been wom smooth by the
gushing water. Lose 1 point of Temporary STAMINA.
Water fills your ears and your nose and you gulp
down several mouthfuls by accident. Your head is
filled by a monstrous roaring sound. In an instant the
darkness gives way to blinding light and you tumble
through air filled with spray, before plunging into a
deep, dark pool. Summoning the last reserves of your
strength you splash out, finally dragging yourself from
the pool to slump on the bank like a wet rag. You
have escaped from the prison mine! Turn to 263.

39

‘Well, a sage once wrote that no man may live under the
same sky as the killer of his father, Yao says. ‘But
another sage wrote that nothing justifies murder. For
myself, the only sage I believe in is the herb which goes
into my cooking pot,’ He stares deeply into his bowl,
then continues. ‘I may be able to help you, but first you
must do mea small favour. A month ago, an eager young
fellow called Suiyuan came to me and asked if I would
help him in his cause — something to do with restoring
justice to the land. J said I’d help him, but I must confess
qo

that it has slipped my mind until now. I really don’t want
to get involved in politics, but I do have an article that
you could take to aid the young man.’ He hands you his
sword. This is the Sacred Sword of Tsui. Guard it
carefully and take it to Suiyuan in Traole. Do this for me
and I will help you in your quest.’ Note down the Golden
Sword on your Equipment List. If you use it in combat, it
will add 2 to your Attack Strength.

You stay a night with Master Yao, then set off back to
Traole. Turn to 235.

40
You bow to the magistrate and make your way out of
the tribunal, If you have the word ‘art’ on your

Adventure Sheet, tum to 351. Otherwise, tur to 2§1.

es — a

41-45

41
You are set to work, cleaning the monks’ practice hall.
They use a variety of weapons, and it is also your task
to clean these. Days pass and you wonder when you
are going to be taught the martial arts yourself. Even
though you clean the practice hall, you are always told
to leave whenever the monks come there to practise. If
you watch the monks practise and train yourself in
secret, turn to 231. If you carry on as you are, turn to

343,

You reach the pool at the bottom of the tunnel where
you slid down and you can hear voices at the top.
Even if you could shin back up there, you would not
escape. You must press on down the tunnel. Turn to

2$5

You make your way to your uncle’s house near the
North Gate. If you have 10 Gold Pieces, turn to 118.
if you haven't, turn to 381.

44
Meng shakes his head sadly. The mercenary leader
takes a step closer and raises his sword. If you stand
your ground, tum to 369. If you attack him, turn to
352.

Do you have a circular brooch? If you have, turn to
140. If you haven't, turn to 81,

46—48

46

There is hardly any moon to shed light on the fields
around you. Occasional gurgling noises and the whis-
per of the wind suggest that fierce monsters lie in
wait, hiding in the darkness until you lie, asleep and
defenceless. You stare this way and that, straining to
make out what horrors may be lurking in the night.
You look up at the stars, but their faint gleam is cold
comfort.

Suddenly the sounds die down. Walking across the
fields towards you is a skeleton, gleaming with un-
earthly light. Fires burn in its empty eye-sockets, and
it carries a huge, broad-bladed sword. You leap to
your feet and draw your wooden sword. A tremor of
fear runs through your body as the ghastly spectre
closes in for the kill

DEATHS MESSENGER SKILL 6 STAMINA ©

If you defeat the apparition, turn to 170. If you are
defeated by it, do not begin your adventure again
from the beginning, but turn instead to 246.

47
The guards escort you back to your cell, where they

find the warder you overcame. You are dragged before
the magistrate and given a severe beating. If you have
a cudgel, turn to £85. Otherwise turn to 330.

45
You snatch up the bowl, but nothing happens. Write
down on your Equipment List that you have a clay
49-59

bowl. Meng chuckles. ‘Easy when you know how,’ he
comments, ‘but how do you depart? Think hard. Use
your head.’ You go back up the passage. Now, do you:

Return through the double doors? Turn to 230
Go along the tunnel opposite? Turn to 276
Go down the passage to your right? Turn to 158

49
In the streets of Traole the mood is tense. You pass a
squad of Dragon Guards heading towards the building
you have just left. If you leave the city now, travelling
south, turn to gg. If you try to obtain a job here, tum
to 237.

oO
The old man leads you along the path, through a
ravine and into a narrow valley. You follow him into a
small hut, sparsely furnished, where he lights a fire and
starts to brew some tea in a battered old kettle. Only
when you are seated, with a steaming bow! of tea
before you, does he speak. Turn to ro.

51-53

51
From a side-alley you watch fearfully as a crowd of
protesters are driven back by a relentless line of heavily
armoured soldiers. If you have the word ‘never’ on
your Adventure Sheet, turn to 353. Otherwise turn to
IVI,

52

Maior smiles, He turns to the fat official and explains
to him that your village was destroyed by mercenaries
You must help to sort this matter out, Pantu. My land
s more troubled than you make out.’ Pantu bows and
casts a sour look in your direction. Then the king
dismisses you both, instructing you to follow Pantu,
Turn to 400.

53
Abbot Dry Jade smiles. ‘You are a good monk’ he
Says. You resume your duties in the kitchen. Add 1
year to your Age, 2 points to your Permanent
STAMINA and 1 point to your sxitt. Deduct 2 points
from your FEROCITY.

Another year goes by, and Dry Jade visits you once
more. He gives you a monk’s knife (note it down on
your Equipment List) and asks you how you are doing
now, If you tell him you are still satistied with your
hosert career, turn to 199. If you ask to be taught the
martial arts, turn to 278, If you feel that the time is
pe for you to leave the monastery and resume your
quest, turn to 236.

ome ww

- — = .
fe ram a, :
ae 1ABR Re a
Pn 4 wortigon a i
HIT
“+

“2 ag x“
2 — tee a
a a - ~ ac a. we
gripe —  < D ~_-
# — ke, “Sam mee =

54

You let out a blood-curdling yell as you swing your
wooden sword at the barbarian, Taken by surprise, he
staggers back, grunting in pain. You follow up with a
thrust to the stomach, but he is too quick for you.
Grabbing the end of your sword, he tugs sharply, un-
balancing you. Before you can dodge away he is upon
you, pinning your arm behind your back. ‘Ha! You fight
like a sabre-tooth,’ he snarls. ‘Perfect for the arena,’
Somehow he manages to tie your hands together and
throw you across the back of his horse. The jolting ride
that follows bruises every bone in your body

Eventually you arrive in a town and clatter through its
streets. You are delivered to the arena, where you are
put into training under the master swordsman Jian, a
muscular fellow with a strangely curved right eyebrow.
Closely guarded by day and by night, you are taught
the use of the sword, spear, halberd, bow and axe,

Jian teaches you well. After two years you are nearly
his match and are ready to face your first opponent in
the arena. Throughout all this time, you never forget
your parents, and the fire of vengeance in your heart
is fuelled with each passing day. Add 2 years to your
Age, 6 points to your SKILL, 10 points to your
Permanent STAMINA, and 10 points to your FEROCITY

Finally the day of your debut dawns. Jian has told you
that your first battle is the most important You are
led out before a howling crowd and face .. . a ravening
Arena Beast, a leathery nightmare with soul-draining

eyes.
55-58
ARENA BEAST

Each time the Arena Beast injures you, roll 2 dice. If
the total you roll is less than your sKILL, you have
avoided looking into the eyes of the beast. If your roll
is equal to or greater than your SKILL, you have gazed
into the eyes of the Arena Beast and must lose an
additional 1 point from both your skit and FEROCITY.

SKILL 8 STAMINA 13

If you defeat the Arena Beast, turn to 274.

55

If you are tattooed, turn to 187. Otherwise, turn to
294.

56
You ready yourself and clench your fists. Roll 2 dice.
If the result is less than your FEROCITY turn to 122. If
the result is equal to or greater than your FEROCITY,
turn to 385.

‘You are wrong,’ he replies. ‘Now be on your way.’ He
indicates the path that leads straight ahead, If you
obey him, turn to 295. If you walk past him along the
left-hand fork, turn to 271.

58
The passage carries straight on for a while, then bends
to the right. You follow it and enter a strangely
shaped chamber. In the wall opposite are five short
passages, each less than two metres high. In the centre
of the room, a large clay bowl sits on the block of

59-60

stone. Around it are strewn the bones of a dozen
skeletons. Meng says, ‘Many have tried to take the
cup: do you dare?’ Do you:

Grab the bowl from the stone? Turn to 48
Approach warily and touch the bowl? Turn to 257
Go back the way you came? Turn to 4

59

You hurry along the corridor, finding a locked door at
the far end. You open it with the warder’s keys, and
peer cautiously out. Two guards are sitting sleepily
outside. There’s no chance of escaping this way with-
out disturbing them. Gently you pull the door closed,
but just as you are locking it you hear a shout from
the other side. The guard must have heard you. You
race back the way you came, looking for another exit.
There’s no way out — except a stinking tunnel, covered
by a grille in the floor. You unfasten the grille and
peer into the darkness. If you snatch an unlit torch
from a wall bracket near by, note it down on your
Adventure Sheet. Then you slide down the tunnel. Roll!
2 dice. If the result is less than your Permanent
STAMINA, turn to 136. If the result is equal to or
greater than your Permanent sTAMINA, turn to 232.

60
The fragrance of mulberry leaves fills the air. Sounds
become muted as you look down on the mercenaries:
they are frantically drawing their weapons and gawp-
ing up at you in horror. Their expressions become
blank and their heads begin to droop. Then their

6x

leader shouts out harshly and they start to retreat.
Soon you are alone in the deserted camp. You drowse

and wake up to find yourself staring into the
narrowed eyes of an old man. ‘A curse is upon you,’
he says. ‘I can lift it if you wish.’ Do you:

Tum to r79
Turn to 279
Turn to 339

Tell him you want the curse lifted?
Attack him?
Refuse his offer and leave?

. 61

Luckily Sunai has some copper coins, which are enough
to pay for you all to sleep in the draughty dormitory of
Yenshu's most disreputable boarding house. There is
not enough money for food, however, so you must
make do with what you have brought from your
village. The talk in the dormitory is of the civil war that
rages in the north of the lands. It is said that Maior and
Feior, twin sons of Bezenvial, have returned to the isles
and are waging war on the God-King, Poo Ta. Bezen-
vial, the Dark Master, was once the ruler of the Isles of
the Dawn, and you have heard the old folk telling
stories about that terrible time. Now the Twins of Evil
are using their magic to destroy the loyal legions of the
isles and are employing mercenaries from the savage
lands across the sea. It is even said that they have
brought to the isles some of the creatures known as
Orcs — horrible, stunted animals with little intelligence
but with much cruelty and cunning

You fall asleep with images of bestial snarling faces
whirling in your mind. Next moming, you wake late
and eat a frugal breakfast. Turn to 296.

62-63

62

You come to, and find yourself standing in front of
your Superior. In your hands is the clay bowl, which
the Superior silently takes from you and places rever-
ently on a plinth (cross it off your Adventure Sheet).
You are congratulated on your success. Write down
the word ‘monk’ on your Adventure Sheet. If you
choose to remain with the sect, turn to 155. Otherwise
you must wash the white paint off your face (cross it
off your Adventure Sheet) and leave. If you make
enquiries in the town, tum to 375. If you head north,
turn to 81.

63
The stench gets worse as you make your way along
the tunnel. After some time you reach a junction. From
the passage leading off to your right you can hear the
faint splash of water. If you go to the left, tum to 146,
If you follow the passage to your right, turn to 284

64-66

64
The creature rears up before you to its full height, and
you see for the first time the tiny legs, running all the
way down its belly. Before it can act, you leap in and
deliver it a stinging blow. The shriek in your inner ear
almost knocks you off your feet, but you recover and
charge the thing once more.

CANGU}) SKILL 6 STAMINA &

If you defeat the creature, turn to 148.

65
You start to swing a blow against the old man, but he
catches your eye and all the energy leaves your limbs,
He raises his arms and a blast of fire engulfs you. Your
adventure ends here.

66

Your enemy doesn’t even bother to raise his sword.
You launch your best blow but it fails to penetrate the
black lacquered armour. The mercenary merely laughs.
You are seized from behind, bound and hung from a
pole, For hours the mercenaries make sport of you;
add 2 points to your FeRociTy. Eventually they tire of
their sport; they pack up camp and depart, leaving you
where you are.

It takes you two days to work yourself free, by which
time you are faint from hunger. Deduct 2 points from
your STAMINA. The mercenaries have set off riding
towards the south. You could try to follow them on
foot (turn to 273) or head in a northerly direction

[, a ——$ a

67-68

towards the coast and try to obtain passage on a ship
(turn to 142).

67
You explain to the others that you must act alone.
Quan nods in agreement when you mention the monas-

tery, but Sunai seems more doubtful.

‘Give up and become a monk, then,’ she says. ‘I intend
to make something of myself here in Yenshu.’

After a tearful farewell, you leave the town by the
north gate and trudge off alone. Turn to 115.

68
Your companion smiles and tells you that, as it hap-
pens, he does know something about mercenaries, but
he wonders why you are asking. Do you tell hirn that:

69-72
You wish to become a mercenary? Turn to 189
You're seeking revenge against a
mercenary?
You have no special interest?

Turn to 252
Turn to 350

69
You are back at your temple. One of your fellow
monks conducts you to the Superior, who chides you
tor your failure and sends you back to your monk’s
cell. From now on you live the spartan life of a monk.
Your requests to leave the order are politely declined.
Your quest for revenge ends here.

Fe
Add 2 points to your FERocITy. The monk picks
himself up from where he fell and dusts himself off.
“You are a good fighter,’ he says. ‘Proceed!’ Although
you could have swom that your last blow killed him,
he looks barely out of breath as he sits himself down
and resumes his meditation. Turn to 338.

71
You bray in triumph at your victory, but five Dragon
Guards take the place of the one you have just
defeated. You are quickly overpowered, dragged off
and thrown in prison. Five days later, you are informed
that, as a menace to public order, you are to be
executed, Your adventure ends here

72
You tear the mask from the man’s head. Beneath it

73-75

there is no face — just a swollen mass of raw, red flesh
You put on the mask and raise your arms. The merce-
naries kneel before you, their new leader, The red haze
still dances before your eyes; the haze of hatred and
death, the crimson tide of revenge, never leaves you,
and the mask never comes off your face until your
dying day.

73
The months pass and turn into years, You come to

realize that the slave master controls his workforce by
building up false hopes in them. Though you may
improve your lot slightly, you will never be free. By
the time this realization dawns, your body is too wom
out for action. Even if you were to find a way of
escaping from the mines, you couldn’t hope to rescue
your mother or bring bloody vengeance upon the
foreign mercenaries. Your adventure ends here.

You concentrate hard on releasing the old man; after a
while he shakes his head and looks around him, puz-
zled. You kneel before him, bowing your head, and
apologize for your attack upon him. Gruffly he forgives
you and tells you to follow him. You make your way
along a path to a sheltered valley, and come upon the
hut in which Master Yao lives. Turn to 360

You make your way down the path from the monas-
tery after thanking Dry Jade for his hospitality. Turn
to 295.

76-77

76
Roll 2 dice. If the total rolled is less than your sKILL,
turn to 376 If the result is equal to or greater than
your SKILL, turn to 318.

Maior sends for a horse from the stables. Since you
have never ridden in your life, you ride behind him
You travel for several days, camping rough at night.
You are surprised to discover that Maior is quite
accustomed to the hard life of a traveller, As you
journey, he tells you something of his history: how he
came to power as his father, Bezenvial, had decreed in
the Black Vein Prophecy, but how he rejected his
father’s legacy of evil, At long last you arrive at a
country mansion — from the size of it, the residence of
an important official. Maior tells you that your mother
is here. He explains that all children are connected to
their parents, whether they like it or not, and percep-
Live eyes can follow the connection — this is how he
found his way here. He strides in, brushing aside the
protesting guardian of the door. You follow him all
the way into the main hall, where a large gathering is

|
78-79

enjoying a banquet. Your eyes immediately alight on
your mother. As you run to embrace her, Maior’s
voice rings out, filling the hall: ‘1 am the king. This
woman is now free.’ The banquet guests sit dumb-
founded; none dares protest.

You leave the house with the king and your mother.
She is overjoyed to see you and weeps for several
hours. You travel to the nearest town with your
mother riding beside your. Maior takes her to the tribunal
and informs the magistrate that he is to take care of her as
if she was royalty. Then you are riding once again.

Thanks to Maior’s uncanny gift, less than a week
passes before you arrive at the mercenary camp. As
you walk among the tents the mercenaries take one
look at Maior and back away. He pauses before the
largest tent and raises the hammer to strike the small
drum which hangs there. Before he can do this, the
tent-flaps part and your enemy emerges, fully ar-
moured and with the accursed demon mask in place.
He reaches for his sword, but Maior makes a gesture,
and patterns of light form in the air. Your enemy stands,
mesmerized, If you draw the golden sword and strike him
down, turn to 174. If you tell Maior that you want the
man to be allowed to live, tum to 393.

. 78
Your life is uneventful, but at least you have food to
eat and clothes to wear. Your adventure ends here.

79
Before you leave, Yao gives you some paper talismans

§o-82

which he says may come in useful. You thank him for
his courtesy, bid him farewell and press on northwards.
Turn to 295.
80

You look back on the scene of carnage and destruction,
reminded of what happened to your own village. You
promise yourself that you will have your revenge,
ignoring the shouts hurled in your direction by the
mercenaries. After riding for several hours, you rid
yourself of the mercenary gear and make a present of
the horse to a farmer, in return for a good meal and a
pair of stout walking sandals. Turn to 166.

81

You trudge along the road, passed by the occasional
merchant. After bwo days of marching you find your-
self among the foothills. The road is now no better
than a track, climbing steadily up the sandy slopes. To
your left you can see the highest peak of the mountain;
another track branches off to the right. lf you press on
ahead, turn to 97. If you take the branching path, turn
to 253.

82

You set off after the mercenaries as they trek eastwards,
then turn towards the south. It is easy to follow them
at a distance — you simply keep an eye open for the
plumes of smoke as they burn and ransack villages in
their path. After several months’ travel you realize you
are only a few kilometres from Traole. If you persist in
following the mercenaries, turn to 310. If you make
your way to Traole instead, turn to 235.

See =
=>

——— =
— 2

nea el

= } eas
Soh
ess een —

“\ Mamas pa) tied) Ghia nk

83-84

85
As the boat passes, you manage to grab its steering
oar and haul yourself painfully up, finally dragging
yourself over the rail, You collapse, panting, on deck,
scarcely aware of the curses of the surprised steers-
man.

When you recover, a well-bred face is studying you
intently. ‘The wretch can join the crew. You were
telling me this morning that we were short handed,’ it
remarks to a stocky fellow. The captain puts you to
work swabbing the deck, as the craft sets sail down
river towards the coast. Its ultimate goal is the capital.
Zhenguei, the powerful man whose boat this is, plans to
rejoin his ministry there. You are given plenty of work
on the coast-hugging journey, and any complaints are
met with a sound thrashing from the bos’n. Add 1 year
to your Age and 3 points to your Permanent sTAMINA.

When you reach Shoudu you are dismissed. The cap-
tain gives you a sailor's scarf before you disembark
and tells you that, if you're ever short of a job, you
should think about becoming a sailor. When you leave
the boat you find yourself in Shoudu’s docks. If you
make for the palace in order to bring a complaint
before the king, turn to 202. Otherwise turn to 195.

84
With a roar that would turn a young man’s hair grey,
you frighten away the spectators and race up the
arena stairs. A guard faces you at the top, but you
bowl him aside and leap into space. Luck is with you,
for your fall is broken by the stall of a meat vendor.

85-86

You pick yourself up from the wreckage of his tent,
snatch up a piece of roasted meat on a stick, and leap
upon a nearby horse. Then you are riding like the
wind, howling your defiance at your captors and
whirling your sword about your head. Note down
that you have a sword and the roasted-meat stick
(which counts as 1 Provision) on your Equipment List.
Apart from these you have no possessions, Write
down the word ‘arena’ on your Adventure Sheet

You ride for hours, until the sparkling blue expanse of
the sea opens up on your right. Turning inland, you
ride through rice country similar to your home district.
Time passes and mountains loom up on the horizon.
Then all at once the horse stumbles. You land with a
splash, unhurt, but the horse has fared worse; you have
driven the poor beast too hard, and it cannot continue.
You have to abandon it here and continue on foot,
into the lower slopes of the mountains. Turn to 264.

85
You push open the black door and step through. You
are in the great hall of a temple — a huge statue of Am
dominates the wall opposite. If you have a white face,
turn to 320. If you are wearing a red robe, turn to 139.

86
Traole is enormous. You can hardly believe how many
houses and people are crowded within its walls. You
wander along the streets, ignored by the bustling city
folk. As you stand admiring the fruit for sale on a
sidestreet stall, you hear a commotion from further

87

along the road. A great cloud of dust is being kicked
up, and il’s moving towards you. If you go to see
what's happening, turn to 322. If you hurry away from
the clamour, turn to 51

87
A kilometre ahead, the highway passes through an
area of dense, high reeds before crossing a river via
an ancient stone bridge. This is the perfect place for an
ambush. The warmiors are travelling slowly so you
have plenty of time to sneak ahead of them and hide
yourself, You let them pass your hiding place until all
but one of them are on the bridge, then you charge. You

a Ci,

88—g0

catch the rear guard by surprise — he topples into the
river — but the next whirls round and attacks.

SAMURAI SKILL11 STAMINA 12

If you defeat the samurai, turn to 323. You may escape
at any time by tuming to 214.

88

Your head spins horribly as you leap to your feet, but
you manage to keep your balance, and you charge out
of the hut, You seé the man making his way along a
rough path into woodland, so you turn in the opposite
direction and plunge among the trees, running for
hours before exhaustion forces you to rest. Regain 1
point of tuck. Turn to 263.

Once you are all safe, the farmers kneel down before
you. ‘Young Deliverer,’ one of them says, ‘we are for
ever in your debt. If ever you need our help, we will
provide it.’ You take them up on their offer by
returning with them to their village. The other villagers
are overjoyed and, although the mercenaries had stolen
most of the food, there is enough for you to have a
light meal, before you lie down to rest on a comfort-
able mat. Recover 2 points of stamina. After you
have rested, it is time to consider the situation. Turn
to 131.

If you have the word ‘green’ written on your Adventure
Sheet, turn to 248; otherwise, turn to 348.

gI-g2

gI
Your surprise attack works like a dream. He cries in
sudden pain, lets go of your arm and clutches his
bloody nose. ‘You . . .’ he begins, then stops and recon-
siders. ‘Good, good,’ he says. ‘I asked for that, |
suppose.’ As he mops the blood off his face, he tells
you that tomorrow he'll take you to the mercenary
band. Note down the number ‘336’ on your Adventure
Sheet, At any time when you are given the option to
leave by the North Gate, you may tur instead to 336
to wait for your companion. Turn to 197.

92
The roads in your district are frequently used by
merchants who come to buy surplus rice from the
peasants, Strangely, there are no merchants in sight on
this road and, after walking for an hour, you discover
the reason. A small cloud of dust appears ahead of

93-95

you, then resolves itself into the shape of a fiercely
armoured, mounted warrior — perhaps one of the
mercenaries who attacked your village. He will be on
you in moments. The rest of the children flee into the
rice fields. If you run after them, turn to 133. If you
wait and try to ambush the mercenary, turn to 325.

93

You wake up to see the concerned face of Dry Jade
looking down at you. Your sTAMINA is restored to its
permanent level. Now that you have failed in the test,
you face a choice. If you stay at the monastery and
give up your quest for revenge, turn to 199. If you
decide to leave, turn to 281.

94
It is pitch dark among the rice paddies and, as you file

along a polder, you pause to wonder where all the
leaves are coming from. There are no trees with leaves
like these within many kilometres of your village. Test
your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 347. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 163

The priests start their chanting. Tremors wrack your
body, your vision swims and you feel as if some large
reptile is thrashing around in your stomach. You hear
a shriek of agony from far away — then you realize it
is your own voice. Deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA. Finally the ordeal is over. Cross the word
‘silk’ off your Adventure Sheet. Even though you are so
weak you can hardly stand, you thank the priests and

96

fotter out into the streets. Your head whirls. Where to

go now? What to do? Do you:
Travel northwards? Turn to 45
Travel southwards? Turn to 99
Look for work in Traole? Turn to 375

96

The fellow doesn’t return your greeting but keeps the
grin fixed on his face. He advances with arms out-
stretched and throws them round you to hug you.
Surprised at his friendly gesture, you are defenceless
against the shock of his attack. Pain smears your chest
and you look down and catch a glimpse of something
black and skittering, covered with blood ... your
blood. Your adventure ends here.

mm ry

iN cy

.~

Pa

97-98

The path winds upwards and you squint up at the
looming majesty of the chief of the Golden Crane
Mountains, You can’t see any buildings or signs of life
at the summit. Ahead, a sandy path forks off to the
left, At the junction sits a shaven-headed fellow in the
red robes of a monk. Will you:

Ignore him and carry straight on? Turn to 295
Bow to him? Turn to 229
Ignore him and take the left fork? Tum to 338
Ask him if Baochou Monastery lies
at the summit of the mountain? Turn to 161
98

Mercenaries stream past you as your opponent falls;
the battle is won. But there is one surprise: from the
covered litter, which the samurai died to protect,
comes a high, pure note. The wooden frame starts to
shake then splinters. A flapping white object shoots up
vertically from the wreckage of the litter and disap-
pears into the sky, The mercenary leader searches
among the rubble and unearths a wooden plaque. ‘A
useful find,’ he comments, tucking it into his belt. The
mercenaries loot the bodies of the samurai, whooping
cheerfully over the quality of their blades and armour.

Over the next few days, as the band travels, you look
for an opportunity to attack the mercenary leader, but
none presents itself: he is much too careful and sus-
picious to allow anyone near him. Finally you are
forced to give up this plan. You are starting to acquire

gg-1al

some of the habits of the mercenaries — if you stay
with them any longer you will truly become one of
them. One night you slip away from them, discard all
your mercenary gear, and continue southwards, now
alone and on foot. Tum to 289.

99

You make good time back to your village. There is
less evidence of the destruction here — indeed, it seems
possible that the village could be rebuilt. With renewed
hope you stride out again towards Yenshu. You are so
used to sleeping rough that you don’t even consider
spending hard-earned money to stay in the town.
Turn to 166.

100
You edge closer to the camp. If you have the word
‘magic’ written on your Adventure Sheet, turn to 396.
Otherwise roll 2 dice. If the result is less than your
SKILL, turn to 312. If the result is equal to or greater
than your SKILL, turn to 261.

101
In the cave, the other slaves greet you without interest.
They give you a pick and show you the rock face at
which they work. There are no guards, but you soon
discover that if one slave attempts to escape, al! the
slaves in the escapees’ work detail are punished. The
members of your work detail are all resigned to thei
fate and give you dire warnings as to the consequences
of making trouble for them. The work is back-breaking,
and you soon Jose track of time (add 1 year to your

102

Age). Now and again you dream of your father being
killed by the foreign mercenary and of your mother
being dragged off into a slavery no doubt as soul-
destroying as your own.

One day the slave master, Kuangong, informs you
that you have worked hard and as a reward are to join
a different work detail; here you will have better food
and will work slightly shorter hours, Also, you realize,
you may now have an opportunity to escape and gain
your revenge on those who brought this tragedy
upon your family. If you make a plan to escape, turn
to 216. If you decide to wait in the mines, hoping to
earn your freedom through hard work, tum to 73.

102
Abbot Dry Jade smiles. ‘You are a good monk,’ he
says. You resume your duties in the laundry. Add 1
year to your Age, 2 points to your Permanent
STAMINA and 1 point to your sxitt. Deduct 2 points
fom your FEROcITY. Another year goes by, and Dry
Jade visits you once more, He gives you a monk's staff
note it down on your Equipment List — it may be

103-104

used as a weapon) and asks how you are doing. If you
tell him you are still satisfied with your lot, turn to
199. If you ask to be taught the martial arts, turn to
278. If you feel the time has come for you to leave the
monastery and resume your quest, turn to 236.

103

Your enemy is bearing down upon one of the villagers.
You intercept him and swing your sword at his head,
but it seems to bounce ineffectually off his demon
mask. ‘Scum!’ he grates

MERCENARY LEADER skiLL 12 STAMINAIS5

You may escape this combat at any time by turning to
80. If you are still fighting the leader after 5 Attack
Rounds, turn to 206.

104
The tunnel lurches as you strike a flint and ignite the
torch. There is a deep gurgle and a blast of foul-
smelling air, then a huge tongue lashes out at you
from the darkness. You parry it with the torch, raising
a blister on the pink obscenity. With a deafening
shriek another blast of air strikes you, blowing you
clear out of the creature’s mouth, You see the vast
jaws close and the reptilian thing slithers away into
the darkness. Then there is a flash: your torch has
ignited the gas that collects in these sewers. You have
only moments to escape the inferno, so you fling the
torch to one side and run (cross the torch off your
Equipment List). The flames lick at you, singeing

105-107

your hair. Lose 1 point of Temporary sTAMINA. Turn
to 42.

105

Blows rain down on you, shredding your rough peas-
ant tunic and making a bloody ruin of your back. You
crawl out of the magistrate’s chamber and collapse in
the road outside the tribunal. Deduct 2 points from
your Temporary sTAMINA. No one moves to help
you, so eventually you manage to haul yourself to
your feet and stagger off down the street. If you have
the word ‘art’ on your Adventure Sheet, turn to 351
Otherwise, turn to 251.

106

You struggle to resist the creature, but your legs are
stuck in sweet-smelling mud, Summoning all your
determination, you swing at the Cangui and succeed
in wounding it. A shriek resounds in your head and
the worm rears up, revealing tiny legs running down
its underside, It looms above you for a moment then
plunges down, crushing the life out of you.

107

‘This is a most serious matter,’ says the king. He
strikes a tiny gong on his reading desk. ‘I will have the
matter dealt with by my personal adviser.’ Into the
room glides a fat figure dressed in finery a hundred
times more extravagant than the king’s simple robe.
Maior informs him that he is to deal with your case as
a matter of urgency. You bow low before the king and
leave with Pantu. Turn to goo.

108-110

108
You hear a young man in a tavern cursing the rulers of
the isles. As he leaves the tavern, you sidle up to him
and broach the subject of the rebels, He stares at you
with eyes bleary from drink, and takes a swing at you.

DRUNK
Ef you defeat the drunk, turn to 315

SKILL 4 STAMINA 10

10g
The abbot shows you round the monastery, where
some two hundred monks study, meditate and train.
You are given a red robe (note it down on your
Equipment List) and are assigned a mat in the dormi-
tory. The abbot asks which task you would prefer: you
may work in the kitchen, help with the laundry, or
dean the martial arts practice chamber. Which do you
choose:

The kitchen? Turn to 374
The laundry? Tum to 186
Cleaning duties? Turn to 41

IIo
You smash through the ranks of constables and run
mto the streets. Following the lead of one of the other
prisoners, you race through the dark streets until you
are sure you haven't been pursued, She leads you to a
deserted building full of machinery, explaining that
this is a water clock. Marvelling at the clever mecha-
ism, you pick your way through the clock and gather
by the central wheel, Turn to 2go.

IIJ—II2

III
The samurai take up positions of readiness as you
approach, but they are not threatening. One of them
points to the covered litter and grunts at you in his
guttural language. The covering is moved aside and
you find yourself face to face with the occupant. The
Ambassador Keiko speaks your language perfectly; she
explains that she is visiting the isles in order to
negotiate a trade agreement. The initial talks were
going well when the king’s new adviser, Pantu,
abruptly cancelled them and ordered Keiko to leave
the palace. Rather than return empty-handed to Ojin
as she calls Hachiman), she is travelling the land,
hoping that the palace authorities will have a change
of heart, i

You tell her your story; she listens with evident
sympathy. She tells you that the men who destroyed
your village were not from Ojin, since samurai never
hire themselves out to foreigners. They must have
been from the southern Isles of the Dawn, where a
different dialect is spoken. She also promises to help
you, She gives you a wooden plaque (note this down
on your Adventure Sheet) which will enable you to
enter the palace. Once you are in there, you must do
everything you can to see the king in person. Perhaps
you will even be able to help Keiko by finding out if
the king knows about the trade mission, she wonders.
You bow to Keiko then depart and continue your
pourney. Tum to 289.

112
‘You are wrong,’ he replies. ‘Now be on your way.’ He

113

indicates the path that leads straight ahead. If you
obey him, tur to 295. If you walk past him along the
left-hand fork, turn to 271.

113
You crawl out through the opening and slip on the
slime but regain your balance. There are plenty of
handholds on the river wall, so you quickly scramble
up and over. You're free, and back among the streets
of Traole! Now do you:

Head north? Turn to 85
Head south? Turn to 99
Investigate the inns for mercenaries? Turn to 36
Head for the temple in search of

divine assistance? Turn to 258

|

114-115

114

The old man starts telling you about charms and
enchantments, but then his voice begins to falter. You
realize that your control over him is slipping and that,
# you are to learn all there is to know about magic,
you must trick him. You tell him that when you clap
your hands he will be free from your control, but that
he will believe you to be a friend to whom he has
promised to pass on his magical arts. Sure enough,
when you clap your hands together, Yao takes your
am and leads you back to the sheltered valley in
which his rush hut stands. Tum to 247.

115
You find your way back to your village without much
difficulty, The little settlement is deserted now, and
fears spring to your eyes at the sight of the world you
have known lying in ruins. As you kneel silently at
your father’s grave, in your mind you see once more
the glaring mask of the butcher who cut him down.

The danger you have already faced on your way to
Yenshu has forewarned you against setting off unpre-
pared. Now you are on your own, so you scavenge
wound for anything that may be of use. You find
one of the pronged spears used against Mudworms
m the paddy fields, 30 copper coins on a string, a
wide-brimmed hat to protect you from the sun and
some sturdy walking sandals. (Add these to your
Equipment List.) You head off alone. If you travel
south, towards Yenshu, turn to 371. If you head north,
furn to 18.

116-117

116
There are three voices talking within the chamber. ‘Se
it is decided, one rasps. We have no choice but to
side with Maior. The prophecy says he will prevail
Thus may darkness be brought upon the land.’ The
other two grunt their assent.

If you creep away quietly and continue along the
tunnel, turn to 63. If you burst in and attack the
conspirators, turn to 226.

117
You leap to the attack. Before your disbelieving eyes,
your father is transformed into a creature from yout
own worst nightmares, a monster of writhing tentacles
and venomous fangs.

MENGEMO
If you defeat the Mengemo, turn to 19.

SKILL 9 STAMINA tO

118-119

118
Your uncle is surprised to see you back so soon. When
Yubei sees you, her features darken and she explodes
with anger: ‘What are you doing back here? I should
never have been so generous. Get out of this houset'
Zhonggao remonstrates with her, but to no avail, and
Fou are cast out into the street.

As the shadows lengthen, you wander forlornly
through Yenshu, heading for the boarding house. You
humm a corner, preoccupied with your own thoughts,
amd find yourself face to face with a stout fellow
sporting close-cropped hair and a tattooed torso.
‘Peasant scum,’ he snarls. ‘There’s no place for you in
this town.’ He steps forward and launches a swift

punch.

TOWN THUG SKILL 6 STAMINA 7

E you beat him, tum to 7.

11g
You keep a wary eye open for signs of trouble as you

roam the city. Twice you see squads of soldiers in
dragon-crested helmets patrolling the streets. By
making careful enquiries of street vendors you leam
that warriors from Hachiman passed through Traole
quite recently. They left the city by the South Gate,
heading for the capital, Shoudu. Also, the rumour
goes, a rabble-rouser by the name of Merzei visited
the city in order to recruit converts to his peasant
uprising. He too left by the South Gate, pursued by a
squad of Dragon Guards! You return to Bofu’s house

eS
IZ0—121

to find that Sunai has not returned. She finally tums
up two days later. It’s obvious from her expression
that her mission has failed. Her face is pale, her hair is
dishevelled and her hands shake as she takes the cup
you pass her, She refuses to say what happened but
insists that she is going back to Yenshu the very next
morning. The others are frightened by her present
mood and agree to go with her. It seems you will be
on your own from now on. Next moming you thank
Bofu for his hospitality and bid your friends farewell.
Jf you travel north, turn to 81. If you stay in Traole,
turn to 30.

120
Brandishing your weapon, you charge into the camp.
Roll 3 dice. If the total rolled is less than your
FEROCITY, turn to 224. If the result is equal to or
greater than your FEROCITY, turn to 206.

121
The mighty tower of Yenshu stands before you once

122-123

more. You pass through the gates of the town and
find yourself in streets that are almost deserted. Your
first priority is to find somewhere to bed down for the
night. If you visit your uncle, tum to 43. If you opt for
a boarding house, turn to 238.

122
Your opponent moves closer, staring fixedly into your
eyes. At the last moment you tear your gaze away as
his jerkin opens and ravening insectoid jaws leap from
within.
CHONGGUI

SKILL & STAMINA 10

If you defeat the Chonggui, turn to 331.

123
The demon mask thrusts right into your face. At this
dose range you can make out the glint of human eyes
through the circular eye-holes. ‘If you're a member of
my band, you obey my word without question —
understand?’ the leader of the mercenaries hisses. You
are surprised to find yourself listening carefully to the
man’s accent: although it is rough, you can’t help but
feel that he is speaking his native tongue. Perhaps
Quan was wrong to suggest that these barbarians are
from across the seas. I said: do you understand?’
demands the leader. You nod energetically. One of the
mercenaries, Shasi, leads you away and fits you up
with some armour, weapons and a horse. The band
packs up camp and sets off southwards.

Over the next few days your suspicions are confirmed:

124-126

you discover that the mercenaries are from Tura, the
southernmost of the Isles of the Dawn. When you
reach the next village, the leader shouts, ‘Rich pickings,’
and the mercenaries charge in. Do you:

Join in with their pillaging? Turn to 21
Ride off? Turn to 8a
Attack the leader? Turn to 103

124
‘That will be your first task,’ says Maior. The king
offers the sword once more. Unless you know another
option, you may now take the sword (turn to 52) or
say that you are not worthy (turn to 370)

125
As soon as you release your friends they start shouting.
Guards rush in, overpower you, drag you before the
magistrate and give you a severe beating. If you have
a cudgel, turn to 185; otherwise, turn to 330

126
The next day you are brought before the tribunal. The

127-128

aty magistrate accuses you of attempting to overthrow
fhe authorities. He points to the constables with their
pomted staves and urges you to confess your crimes,
for no criminal may be sentenced without first confess-
mg. If you confess, turn to 330. If you deny everything,
teen to 379.

12
You tie the scabbard to Four waistband and turn to
Save the chamber. Meng is gone: Everything that was
Gk is now light. You stand in the palm of a giant
whose face is your own. His fingers bend; he closes his
ai upon you, crushing you... Your adventure ends

128
There is another fearsome howl, and then an enormous,
shagey shape rears up in front of you. If you are
Prepared to trust in your good fortune and walk on up
the path, turn to 313. If you ready your weapon and
take up a defensive stance, turn to 285.

L2Q-131

129

*valking through the night gloom, you almost bump
=ito what — at first sight — looks like a tree-stump.
‘vith a jolt you realize that in fact this is the stationary
=gure of a man, He raises his head to gaze at you, and
sou catch the glint of sharp eyes from beneath bushy
white brows. The old man reaches up to stroke his
-ang white beard. Then he mutters something incom-
szehensible and beckons to you with his finger. You
sotice that he has a sword at his belt. If you faunch a
surprise attack on him, tur to 211. If you show him
respect and follow him warily, turn to §0.

130
‘rou select a nearby shrine, light an incense stick and
zegin to pray. The circular design of the shrine reminds
ou of the brooch the Abbot gave you, It seems to
revolve, and a gentle voice says, ‘South, south, to the
capital. That way lies release.’ You look around. A
criest is standing near by, but you can’t be sure
whether or not it was he who spoke. If you leave the
-emple and travel south, turn to g9. Otherwise, tum to

131
= would be far too dangerous to approach the camp,
sow that the mercenaries are alerted. If you wish to
xzep close to the mercenaries, shadowing them and
2yaiting an opportunity for action, turn to 82. If you
cecide to travel back south, in search of something or
someone to help you in your quest for revenge, turn

HO 273.
132-134

132
The monk sidles towards you, moving with the fatal
grace of a hunting spider. You are calm as he attacks,
mentally back at your menial tasks in the monastery.
As quick as lightning, he launches a kick to your body.
Your arm sweeps down, just as it did during countless
hours of work, effortlessly brushing his kick aside. His
next attack is more careful

WHITE-FACED MONK SKILL 6 STAMINA 6

If you defeat the monk, turn to 267. if he defeats you,
turn to 93.

133
The children scatter and flee, but in his haste poor

Hani slips and falls, sprawling across the polder. The
horseman comes to a halt, sending up a cloud of dust.
If you continue to flee into the rice paddies, turn to
31. If you turn and try to distract the horseman’s
attention away from Hani, turn to 157.

134

A short distance from the camp you come upon a low
tise and you watch the mercenaries from this vantage
point. Sure enough, these are the very barbarians who
destroyed your village. As you watch, a group of
farmers is driven into the camp by mercenaries wield-
ing whips. Some are tied up and are then suspended,
upside down, from poles, while others are pegged out
on the ground. Their plaintive cries rise up to you. If
you try to help them, turn to 270. If you stay where
you are, turn to 329.

1357136

135
You make a move to step forward between the doors,

fut an invisible barrier blocks your passage. A bell
begins to toll and shouts echo from within, If you turn
and hurry down the mountain, turn to 213. If you wait
to see what all the fuss is about, turn to 388.

136
Your landing is soft but revolting. You hold your
breath and stagger from the muddy pool which broke
your fall. The walls here give off a faint glow, and you
can see that you are in a low tunnel. If you set off to
the left, turn to 326, If you go right, turn to 255.

Zs = | ee ee
137-138

137
*¥ao leans over, deep in thought, He stays like this,

<nmoving, for long moments, as you await his words
x insight, Yao’s head sinks lower on his chest and a
contended sigh escapes his lips ,.. then he begins to
snore! Whatever wisdom you may learn, it is unlikely
you'll obtain it from this old man, You make your way
out of his hut, Turn to 144

E you decide to travel north, towards Traole, turn to
18. If you determine to travel south, towards Shoudu,
the capital of the isles, turn to 166

277 o 1g Wee chia its oy

139-140

ss
When the monk Black Cauldron steps into the hall

you realize that you are in the monastery at Baochou
He commiserates with you on your failure in the test
If you stay at the monastery and give up your quest
for revenge, turn to 19g. If you resolve to continue,
turn to 281.

140
You travel for several days, watching as the approach-
ing mountains rise ahead of you. You make your way
along the track until it meets the path up to Baochou
Looking up at the mountain, you see no sign of the
monastery, so you carry on along the path. Turn to

7

14I—142

141

The wind whips up around you, blowing leaves into
your eyes. You become aware of a glow approaching
‘arough the darkness and resolving itself into a huge,
sightless worm. With a start you realize that you are
not dreaming. Your scream wakes the others and they
stagger to their feet as if drunk. The worm slithers
-owards you, and a gentle whispering noise caresses
your ears, sapping your resistance. If you are prepared
:o fight the creature, turn to 64. If you'd rather flee
‘rom it, turn to 163.

142

\ few days later you reach a coastal port and persuade
a friendly merchant to take you on board. You sail the
next day, keeping the coastline hard by the port side.

1437144

Although there is much talk about the troubled state
of the land, the merchant is cheerful and optimistic,
and the journey passes pleasantly. After only a few
weeks you arrive at the docks in Shoudu. The merchant
has advised you to try to bring your case before the
king, while the ship’s captain says he’s prepared to
offer you a job as a cabin boy if you fancy the life of a
sailor. Turn to 195.

143
You knock the warder over, but he rolls upright in an
instant and draws a cudgel. He circles warily, waiting
for the right moment to strike.

WARDER STAMINA 6

If you defeat the warder, turn to 366.

SKILL 5

144
You follow the path until you are out of the valley. As
it’s dark now, you decide you had better rest for the
night. Luckily you find a sheltered spot in a grove of
trees. While you sleep you may recover 2 points of
Temporary sTAMINA. Next morning you retum to the
path and press on. Turn to 295.

145

145

The people you meet in the street treat you with sus-
ptcion, but when you ask for directions to your uncle’s
house they become friendlier. You are directed to a
peasant little dwelling close by Yenshu’s North Gate.
When you strike the gong which hangs outside the door,
a slender woman answers; she leads you into the main
ball where your uncle Zhonggao waits. When he
mses to greet you the similarity to your father in
voice and appearance is striking. Zhonggao must have
deen your father’s brother, though he had always been
sescribed to you as if he were only distantly related.
Your uncle smiles to welcome you and you tell him
the fate of his brother. A shadow passes across his
face as you speak of the foreign barbarian’s foul deed.

The spirit of the land is weak once more,’ he muses.
4s Bezenvial’s clammy grasp stil] at our throat”

The child must be given money,’ says Zhonggao's wife.
Yubei, the woman who answered the door. Shelter too,
and any other help we can render, They may have
spumed you because of me, but they are still your
family, and you must help avenge your brother's death,’
You sleep well, and in the morming you hungrily
devour a delicious bowl of rice porridge with pickled
vegetables, While you eat, Zhonggao ponders upon
your best course of action, “The magistrate is busy,
and perhaps too callow to take action. It may be
wisest to make for Baochou, there to learn the fighting
ats. so that you can take revenge yourself’ If you
aecide to visit the magistrate, turn to 39. If you start
the journey to Baochou, turn to 365.

146-148

146

A figure looms out of the darkness of the tunnel, It is a
man, dressed in the rough leathers of an artisan. His
beady eyes stare at you and his teeth are bared in a
fxed grin. As he walks towards you he spreads his arms
wide to show you that he is unarmed. If you run back
the way you came, tum to 284, If you greet him with
friendship, turn to 96. If you attack him, turn to 56.

147

The palace is surrounded by many high walls; however,
you are fit enough to climb them, and by good
fortune it is a moonless night, In pitch darkness you
slither over the outer walls and creep along the roof of
an outbuilding. A dim light glows from the balcony
above your head, so you haul yourself up and over.
You make your way noiselessly through a lattice-wood
door to an ornately decorated corridor. You pause for
2 quick rest but have no time to catch your breath. A
Royal Guard rounds the corner and, on seeing you,
draws his sword and rushes to challenge you.

ROYAL GUARD SKILL 8 STAMINA 12

F you defeat the guard in 10 rounds or less, turn to
250; otherwise, tur to 11.

148
The bloated body of the Cangui lies before you. As
you watch, the spongy flesh peels away until al) that
& left is the emaciated body of an old man with
silvery-grey hair and beard. His face is composed and
at peace. Gain z point of Luck (this may not increase

549-150

your Luck score above its Initial value) and 1 point of
SKILL. The others congratulate you on your victory
and help you dig a grave in the sodden earth for the
old man, Next momuing there is no sign of the leaves
which swirled around you last night. Turn to 368

149
The current sweeps you down the fissure, dashing you
against the rock walls. Your head strikes stone and
roaring blackness overwhelms you. Deduct 2 points
from your Temporary STAMINA

You regain consciousness with a thousand tiny demons
stabbing at your head with firebrands. Sparks swim
before your eyes, but you can make out the interior of
a peasant hut. A'face looms before you, full of concern.
Through the haze which clouds your mind you hear
the word ‘mine’. A damp cloth, scented with pungent
herbs, is pressed to your forehead, restoring some of
your shattered senses, A peasant woman is tending to
you and behind her a man is making his way out of
the hut. If you leap up and try to escape, turn to 303.
If you wait here a while, turn to 245.

1§0
‘My family name is Yao,’ he begins, ‘though I seem to
have forgotten my other names...’ He pauses to sip

his tea. ‘I don’t have many visitors here; I’m in retreat
from the world — all that hustle and bustle, it’s not for
me. I just look for a simple existence in which | can
practise my little tricks and try to stop thinking about
things.’ He peers at you. ‘What brings you here?’

151-152

If you tell him that you are seeking the murderer of
your father, tum to 39. If you tell him you seek to
learn his wisdom, turn to 367.

151
You make your way timidly into the inn and gulp at
the motley collection of cut-throats and ne’er-do-wells
who splash about in the pool, guzzling all manner of
peculiar concoctions. You pluck up the nerve to talk to
a nearby drinker but he curses colourfully and tells
you to get out. Reluctantly, you leave the inn. It’s the
same story at the other taverns you visit. Turn to 362.

152
The world goes black, Deduct 2 points from your
FEROCITY. Check your Adventure Sheet. Do you have:

A clay bowl and a white face? Turn to 62
A clay bowl and red robes? Tum to 257
Just a white face? Turn to 69
Just red robes? Turn to 93

153-156

153
The monks explain that there is a religious artefact
they require, and that you have the unique qualities
needed to retrieve it from its resting place under-
ground. They train you in their Spider-style martial
arts until you are ready for your expedition (write
down the word ‘spider’ on your Adventure Sheet). Add
I year to your Age, 3 points to your skiLL and 3
points to your Permanent staMINA. Before you de-
scend into the Underworld, your face is painted white
in the fashion of their order (note this on your Adventure
Sheet}, Finally, you pass through the gilded gates
which mark the entrance to the realm below. Turn to

399,

154
You adopt a firm stance, concentrating on raising
sufficient energy to knock over your enemy. He
launches a surprise swing at you with his sword:
almost without effort, you deflect its force and pull the
murderer towards you. Caught off balance, he topples
and crashes to the ground. You kick his sword from
his grasp, then crouch down beside him. Too late you
remember the other mercenaries! Turn to 206.

$5
For the remainder of your days you live the hard life
of a monk. Your quest for revenge is over.

156
You may question your drinking companion on another
subject if you wish, but you must pay another 2 Gold

1$7

Pieces for drinks. If you have no more money or if
you simply don’t wish to ask more questions, turn to
197. Otherwise, you may ask him about:

The civil war Turn to 208
A band of mercenaries Tur to 68
Warriors from Hachiman Turn to 268

1§7
‘Hoi! Hoi!’ you call, gesticulating wildly with your
arms. ‘Foulbreath! Mudworm! Savage!’

The mercenary curses back at you, leaping off his
horse and advancing. You back away, making sure
that the barbarian can’t see Hani dragging himself to
his feet and struggling over the polder. Luckily the
man’s heavy armour slows him and you evade him
easily. Finally he remounts, spits in your direction,
then tugs hard at the reins and kicks his feet into the
horse's flanks. The horse leaps towards you. Too [ate
you dodge to one side. A steel-shod hoof cracks you
across the head and you topple backwards into muddy
water, losing consciousness. Lose 2 points of Tempo-
lary STAMINA. Gain 1 point of FEROCITY

You come to, alone and soaked to the skin. There is
no sign of Quan and the others. If you head back to
your village, tum to 115. Alternatively you can try to
carry on and reach Yenshu. The road may be danger-
ous, but you're not familiar with the polder-paths. If
you decide to stick to the road, turn to 384. If you
travel along the polders, turn to 332.

158-161

158

The tunnel is short and wide and gives on to a
roughly circular chamber. The room is lit by thousands
of tiny lights dancing in the air, some darting about,
others staying still, In the middle of the room stands a
tall, dark shape: a figure etched permanently in your
memory, its demon mask mocking you. Beside you
Meng gestures urgently. If you wait to see what
Meng has to say, turn to 233. If the Fear is upon you,
turn to 212; otherwise, you may attack the figure (turn
to 352).

159
The guard raises his sword to strike you down. The

last thing you see is the sword-hilt crashing down at

You,

You wake up in a pile of rotting straw. Your head
teels like a pounded rice-husk but at least being uncon-
sdous has helped you recover somewhat. Regain 2
points of Temporary STAMINA, Turn to 243

160
You turn to attack the man who betrayed you, but he
has a sword readied and is backing away from you, a
mocking smile twisting his face in cruel delight. You
charge towards the leader of the mercenaries, the man
who slew your father — but against so many men you
nave no chance. Your adventure ends here.

161
The monk looks up at you and smiles. ‘No,’ he replies.

162-164

Then he lowers his head and withdraws once more
into his private world of meditation. Will you:

Carry on along your original path?

Pass the monk and take the left-hand
path? Turn to 338

Question the monk further? Turn to 221

Tur to 295

162
The doors of the building fly open and a squad of Dragon
Guards swarms in, hacking indiscriminately at the un-
trained townspeople, If you have the golden sword and
wish to use it, tum to 37. Otherwise turn to 442.

163
You haven't gone far before you realize that you have
got lost among the muddy fields. There is no light
anywhere now and the stars are blotted out by clouds.
You stop where you are, passing an uncomfortable
night stretched out along the polder. Deduct 1 point
from your Temporary STAMINA.

164~165

Next morning you look out over an unfamiliar expanse
of paddy fields. It takes you several hours to find a
rough track, and you are not even sure that it is the
same one you were using yesterday. Turn to 368.

164

You start to swing a blow against the old man, but he
catches your eye with a powerful gaze. Time seems to
hold its breath as you stare at each other, You look
deeply into his eyes and have the strangesl feeling, as
if you were flying through a tunnel, finally emerging
in a cavernous chamber. The image fades. The old man
stands stock still, mesmerized. If you take his fine
sword and leave him where he is, turn to 29. IF you
question him, turn to 398.

165
Once the agreement has been reached, Sunai takes
over, organizing preparations for the journey, From
somewhere you obtain some food and some scraps of
wood to reinforce your sandals for the walk.

You set off in the crisp morning air, making good time
along the roads. Soon you pass the deserted settlement
which you encountered on your way to Yenshu. None
of you can bear to return to your village, so you pass
on. Dusk falls around you; shadows grow long. Leaves
flutter past, blown in the wind. Despite the darkness,
the road lies clear before you, glowing in wanm light.
If you press on in the dark, turn to 319. If you decide
to make camp here, turn to 277. If you move off the
road, turn to 94.

166-167

166
The next few weeks merge into one another in a blur
® you settle into a routine of travel. Although you
pass many farmers working in the fields, there are few
wevellers on the roads. One day you meet a fellow
dressed in rather tattered scholar’s robes. You recog-
mize him as an itinerant puzzler. Scholars who fail the

_Sereaucratic examinations often find it hard to secure

exployment, and many opt for the life of a puzzler.
According to tradition, a puzzler may ask a question
ef anyone he meets on the road. If he does not receive
Se correct answer, custom dictates that the puzzler is
eetitied to charity — at the very least, the price of a
meal. This puzzler is barely older than you are and
Geesn‘t seem entirely sure of himself. He asks: ‘One
sy | bought a tree. The next day it grew by a half of
® height. They day after, it grew by a third of its new
height. The day after that it grew by a quarter of its
eight, and so on ... How many days did it take the
eee to grow to a hundred times its original height?’ If

Fou think you have worked out the correct answer,
mote it down on your Adventure Sheet and turn to 275

E you can’t solve the puzzle, make a note of what you

_ ae giving the puzzler and then tum to 378.

167
You ready your weapon as Zhanshi circles in towards
wou. He swings wildly and you try to block . . . but it
was a feint. With a nimble flick of his sword Zhanshi
d@sarms you. ‘Get out of here,’ he roars. “You're just a
inow-nothing peasant.’ As you make your way de-
Fctedly from the camp, you can feel the eyes of the

168-169

mercenary leader following you all the way. You fee
safe only when you are out of sight of the camp. Turn
to 131

168
You find a decent-looking tavern in the better-off part
of the city. You pick out a cheerful young man and offer
him a drink. He is soon chatting merrily away and you
guide him carefully on to the subjects that interest you.
The first drink costs you 2 Gold Pieces (cross them off
your Adventure Sheet). Will you try to find out about:

The civil war? Turn to 208
A band of mercenaries? Turn to 68
Warriors from Hachiman? Turn to 268

169
You approach the central tent in the camp and beat
upon the little drum which hangs by the flap. There is
a grunt from within. The fearsome figure of the merce-
nary leader emerges — his face hidden by the demon
mask. If you attack him immediately, turn to 346. If
you choose to talk to him first, tum to 240.

1yo-I71

170

With a bold sweep of your sword, you chop through
the skeleton’s neck. Its skull topples and a moment
later the ghastly vision disappears into thin air. Write
down the word ‘when’ on your Adventure Sheet. Your
STAMINA is restored to its permanent level. Add 1
point to your skILL but deduct 2 points fom your
FEROcITY. Now turn to 345.

171
You notice Hani staring about him, wide-eyed. Then
his face lights up in a big grin and he points to a small
house at the far end of the alley. ‘Uncle Bofu!’ he says
happily. You make your way to the house and knock
hesitantly. After a while the door opens a crack and a
worried face peers out at you. When it alights on
Hani, however, the door is flung wide open and you
are all ushered in.

Bofu is not a rich man but he offers you all the hospitality
he can, He suggests that you abandon your quest for
vengeance and settle down in Traole. Sunai, however,
reminds you that you did decide to bring your case before
the prefect. If you decide to stay in Traole fora while, turn
to 5. Or you may prefer to leave the others to approach
the prefect, while you travel north (turn to 386).

172-173

172
You don’t have long to wait; an old man with a
golden sword at his. belt soon comes shuffling into the
hut. He doesn’t seem surprised by your presence,
while you kneel before him and apologize for presum-
ing upon his hospitality. Instead, he seats himselt.
takes the cup of tea you offer and sniffs its vapour
before speaking. Turn to r§0.

173
‘You are wrong,’ he replies. ‘Now be on your way.’ He
indicates the path that leads straight ahead. If you
obey him, tur to 295. If you walk past him along the
left-hand fork, turn to 271

174-175

174
*Nith a yell of exultation you swing the sword and it
strikes your enemy on his left shoulder, cleaving
xraight through his armour and piercing his heart. For
2 moment the figure stays upright, blank eyes staring
2 you from the demon mask, then it collapses. You
reach down to remove the mask and look upon the
face of the man you have hated for so long. It comes
ot easily and you stare at a face ... your own face!
The mask slips easily over your head, and you look
out at the world through its eye-holes. Maior looms
<2 in front of you and his features are twisted with
contempt. He gestures and ... your adventure ends
here,

175
ou dog-paddle desperately, narrowly missing the

<eering oar of the sailing boat as it passes. The
current drags you along for many hundreds of metres,
sntil the buildings of Traole are no longer rising on
ziher side, The river widens and the current slows;
“ou struggle to the bank, pull yourself from the water
=nd collapse, exhausted. When you recover, you see
Sat you are some way from the city, on the north
cank of the river. If you decide to return to Traole,
=am to 262. If you prefer to head north now, turn to
I

rr

ii a
eres

= se

-<>

aes i ae ON

©
= = 2

176

176

The tribunal is a distinctive building with a bell-tower,
it dominates the town. Its magnificent gates are
wrought of black wood, with beaten copper inlays,
and above them is a huge sign. For the first time in
your life you wish you could read. Inside the courtyard
you join a queue of petitioners, all waiting to bring
their cases before the magistrate. It is mid-afternoon
by the time your tum comes and you have been lulled
by the warmth of the sun. You stifle a yawn as the
constables usher you into a large circular chamber
Around its walls stand grim-faced guards with jointed
staves and, at the wall opposite, the magistrate reclines
on a large marble throne. Behind him hangs a drape
depicting the golden fist, symbol of the God-King’s
authority. The magistrate of Yenshu is a fat man. He
peers at you through bored and bleary eyes and
waves his hand vaguely in the air as if trying to catch
a fly. You stand forlornly in the middle of the chamber,
unsure of your next move.

Kneel, dog, and speak your piece,’ growls the con-
stable who ushered you in. His staff whacks you behind
the knees, and you collapse to the floor.

In a few minutes you have stammered out your story
to the local representative of divine justice. He doesn’t
seem very impressed, ‘This tribunal has no funds for
compensation and insufficient resources to follow and
capture the bandits, who no doubt are many kilometres
away by now. Begone, and exercise greater care in
tuture!’

177-178

if you protest at the magistrate’s judgment, turn to
316. If you leave the chamber, turn to 40.

177
The other figure is wearing robes similar to yours, but
his face is not white. As soon as he sees you, he drops
into a crouch. He sidles close to you, poised for action,
then attacks.

MONK SKILL 10 STAMINA 12

If you defeat the monk, turn to 267.

178

You are in a long corridor, full of cells, and most of
them are occupied. In one, six people are gathered in a
huddle, talking in low voices. They look up as you
appear at the grille and stare at you for a moment.
Then one says, ‘Quickly, free us! We can let out the
other prisoners in the name of justice!’ If you unlock
the door, turn to 26. If you ignore their pleas and
continue to search for your friends, turn to 293.

179-180

179

The old man leads you along a path deep into the
mountains, where his rush hut nestles in a shady
valley. He ushers you into his sparsely furnished dwell-
ng and prepares you a cup of smoky-flavoured tea.
Then he begins his magic. A paper talisman is stuck to
your forehead and the Master pricks you with long
reedles, all the time chanting in a voice that is surpris-
mgly sonorous for one of his advanced years. On and
on the spell goes; you lose track of time but are
prevented from going to sleep by the old sorcerers
constant activity, After a long time you feel a sick
sensation welling up in your stomach and you retch
Then a stubby white caterpillar is writhing on the hard
zarth floor in front of you; it is crushed by the heel of
she old man. ‘I am tired now,’ he says. ‘My energy is
‘ow, | must rest, and you must go now.’ He gestures
zo the door

“rou bow and thank him for his help, but he just waves
you away. As you leave his hut he winks at you,
smiling a secret smile. Cross the word ‘silk’ off your
Adventure Sheet and turn to 144.

180

The proprietor of the boarding house spreads his arms
wide and bares his teeth. ‘No money, no room. This is
=e way the world works. Anything else would not be
sarmonious.’ These townsfolk may be wealthy, but
zenerosity doesn’t seem to accompany their good
sartune. You find a deserted back-street and sleep on a
=<e of stinking rags.
181

You are woken by a kick in the ribs. Through bleary
eyes you look up into the scarred faces of two roughly
dressed ruffians One spits at you, and the other draws
his sword, You roll to one side, but the blade nicks
you in the arm, causing a flesh wound. Deduct 1 point
from your STAMINA. Then you are in a desperate fight
for life.

SKILL STAMINA
First RUFFIAN 10 12
Second RUFFIAN ° 10 12

The second ruffian will take some time to draw his
knife. Fight 3 Attack Rounds against the first ruffian
alone. At the end of this time the second ruffian will
join in, If the first ruffian is still alive, you should
choose which opponent you are going to attack at this
time. Against the other, roll your Attack Strength as
normal, but if successful, you may not injure him —
you are merely parrying his blow. Of course, if his
Attack Strength is greater than yours, he will inflict
the usual amount of damage on you. If you defeat the
tuffians, turn to 282

181
Mischievous eyes glint from a childlike face. ‘Greetings,
fellow monk,’ says the strange fellow. ‘My name’s
Merzei — you may have heard of me. What's your
business here?’ Something about the man’s open
manner makes you trust him instinctively, so you tell
him that you are here to petition the king to do
something about the destruction of your village. ‘The

182-183

king is merciful,’ says Merzei, ‘and I'm sure he will
help you if you put your case to him. | cannot lead
you to him myself, for I am out of favour, but I can
show you the way.’ If you have a wooden plaque, turn
to 20; otherwise, turn to 358.

x82
You charge up the stairs, but the red figure is ready
With movements as precise as a spider's, he crouches
then launches a kick which strikes you with the force
of a battering ram. You fly backwards and crash on to
the stone floor below. Your adventure ends here

183
Such a criminal waste of money,’ says the slave
master, ignoring your outburst. ‘And I thought you
looked quite promising.’ He waves his hand casually
and the four guards let fly their crossbow bolts. You
dip into blackness before you hit the ground. Your
adventure ends here.

184-186

184

Yao agrees to lift the curse on you and quickly begins
his magic. A paper talisman is stuck to your forehead
and the Master pricks you with long needles, all the
time chanting in a voice that is surprisingly sonorous
for one of his advanced years. On and on the spell
goes and you lose track of time but are prevented
from falling asleep by the old sorcerer’s constant
activity. At last you feel a sick sensation well up in
your stomach and you retch. A stubby white caterpillar
lies writhing on the hard earth floor, before it is
crushed by the old man. Cross the word ‘silk’ off your
Adventure Sheet. ‘1 am tired now,’ says Yao. ‘My
energy is low. I must rest,’ He slumps on to a rush mat
and is quickly snoring. You seize the opportunity to
catch up on some sleep yourself.

You wake up, refreshed, in the morning; Master Yao is
already up and about, preparing a simple breakfast of
mountain mushrooms. Over the food, Yao asks you
what you intend to do. If you reply that you are
seeking the man who murdered your father, turn to
39. If you ask the seer to teach you his magical arts,
turn to 247.

185
You are found guilty of the murder of the warder and
are sentenced to the death of one hundred and one
cuts. Your adventure ends here.

186
You start work the next day, cleaning the monks’

187-188

robes; your main task is to dash the wet robes against
a large stone. Days pass and you begin to wonder
when you are going to be taught these ‘martial arts’
for which the monks are famous. The monastery is a
tranquil place, however, and the hard work builds you
up. Add 1 year to your Age and 2 points to your
Permanent STAMINA.

At the end of the year, the abbot visits you and
aks you how you are progressing. If you tell him
you are doing fine and are well satisfied, tum to
102. If you ask to be taught the martial arts, turn to
278.

187
‘Why is it we always seem to attract the criminal
element?’ he asks with a laugh. ‘Let’s see how well you
Beht — if you're any good, we'll accept you.’ He
gestures to a mercenary who’s loitering near by. ‘Beat
Zhanshi here.” Do you fight the mercenary:

With martial arts? (You must have
‘crane’, ‘wood, ‘spider’ or ‘sword’

written on your Adventure Sheet) Tum to 32
With the Sacred Sword of Tsui? Tum to 317
With Arena skills? (You must have

the word ‘arena’ on your Adoenture

Sheet) Turn to 244
With anything else? Tum to 167

188
When you wake up, you are in a different chamber,

189-190

lying on a comfortable rush mat. You feel much better
(your STAMINA is fully restored to its permanent level)
and you find a tasty cold meal that has been left for
you. As you are finishing it, a monk in red robes
enters the chamber. You recognize him from your
encounter in the sewers, though his face is no longer so
pale. ‘I apologize for the distress you have been
caused,’ he says. ‘We have tried to make amends by
whatever means we could. Now you may choose to
go your way if you wish or ... you may help us ina
little matter,’ If you wish to leave, turn to 304. If you
agree to help the monk, turn to 154

189
He peers into your eyes. ‘D’you reckon you've got
what it takes?’ he asks. Quick as a flash, his hand
shoots out and grabs your arm, twisting it painfully.
Do you:

Turn with the blow to lessen its

force? Turn to 444
Match your opponent, strength for

strength? Turn to 308
Headbutt him in the face? Turn to 91

igo
Your head spins and you lose your balance. Sparks are
flying before your eyes — the blow you took on your
head was worse than you thought. You crawl towards
the door, but the effort is too much for you. You
collapse, panting. Tum to 245.

191-193

191

With the slight ghost of a smile playing about his
features, Master Yao says he can free you of the curse
and begins chanting. You realize that, if you are freed
of the Cangui, Yao will be released from your control.
You bark at him to stop chanting, and consider how
to work things out. Finally, you tell Yao that when
you clap your hands he will be released from your
power, but that he will consider you a friend whom he
has promised to rid of a curse. Hoping that this trick
will work, you clap your hands together, Turn to 179.

192
Sunai and the other children prepare to enter Traole.
You wish them luck; they tell you that their prayers
go with you. You watch them until they pass through
the gates of the city and out of sight, not knowing
whether you will ever see them again. Turn to 81.

193
The tunnel goes on straight ahead for thirty metres,

then bears to the left; it continues for another thirty
metres, leading finally into a chamber. Five small
tunnels lead from the wall opposite but, as you enter
the room, you can see that each is only five metres
long and all are empty. In the middle of the chamber, a
scabbarded sword rests on a block of stone. The
sword’s hilt is golden and the scabbard is beautifully
decorated. Meng says, ‘This is the Sacred Sword of
Tsui. To draw it requires strength, to use it requires
wisdom. It is not a sword for the greedy or small-
minded.’ Do you:

194
Pull the sword from its scabbard? Turn to 341
Take the sword in its scabbard? Tur to 127
Leave the chamber and go back the

way you came? Turn to 4

194

You awaken. Your body is suffused with a comforting
warmth, You reach up to wipe the sleep from your
eyes, but find that your arms are pinioned: you are
wrapped in folds of silky smoothness. You drift back
to sleep, your head full of dreams of mulberry leaves
fluttering in the breeze. Who knows how long you
remain like this? You are only dimly aware of what is
going on around you.

Finally your bindings become dry and brittle. Flexing
your limbs, you push outwards. The cocoon sloughs
away, and you unfurl yourself in the blinding warm
sunlight, There is no sign of the others or of the
sweet-scented trees but, a short distance away, a road
wends its way into the mist-laden distance. Write
down the word ‘silk’ on your Adventure Sheet and turn
to 18,

1957197

195

Shoudu is so large that you cannot take in its size.
You see more people in one day here than you have
seen throughout the rest of your life, for this mighty
metropolis is the earthly resting-place of the God-
Aing. By ancient tradition, he may be petitioned in
cases of great injustice ... but if the injustice stems
som his own servants, will he help? If you go to the
palace after all, turn to 202. If you try to break into
the palace, turn to 147, If you decide bo take up the
ship captain's offer of employment as a sailor, tum to
314.

196
The crowd round you is: howling pressing in and

Mocking your escape. Their bloodlust is greater even

yours and slowly, inexorably, you are pushed

back into the pit.

han strides over to you, smiling thinly. ‘A bold at-
‘empt, my young tiger, but for such as you and me,
=e only escape is death.’ Jian speaks the truth. Like
you, he is a prisoner of the arena, You live out the rest
ie short life here, killing for the pleasure of
ethers.

. 197
tou take your leave of the inn and ponder your next
ove, Do you:

Leave the city, making for the north?
Visit the temple?
Leave the city and head south?

Turn to 45
Turn to 258
Turn to 99
198-199

198

You reach out for the sword, and the hairs on the nape
of your neck rise. You pause and glance round the
room, The fat official returns your gaze. You take the
sword and the sense of danger grows. Suddenly a
venomous snake rears beside you, fangs dripping,
ready to strike. You sweep the sword round in a lazy
arc, slicing the serpent’s head from its body, It writhes
cor several seconds, sloughing off its official’s robes.
Ming Maior stares at the body, then at you.

‘Tt seems 1 owe you a great debt,’ he says. He walks
over to a small lacquered box, unlocks it, and takes a
2tooch from it. ‘For too long I have allowed others to
Se my eyes and ears. Merzei tried to tell me this, but I
was too proud to listen to him,’ he says; then, tossing
2 cloak across his shoulders, he strides out of the
cnamber, gesturing for you to follow. As Maior passes
trough the palace, servants prostrate themselves
Sefore him You pass through the mighty jade gates
znd out into the courtyard. Maior asks: “Which first —
rescue your mother or avenge your father?’ If you
noose the former, turn to 77. If you choose the latter,
sum to 327

199
Abbot Dry Jade is delighted. He tells you that you
pave conquered the attraction of the dull material
world and are well on the path to enlightenment. You
remain in the monastery, working hard. Your father’s
<eath will remain unavenged

200—203

200

You have attained inner peace — your desire for
revenge no longer clouds your mind. Add 2 to your
SKILL. If you ever have to roll the dice and compare
the result to your FEROCITY, you may now always
choose not to be ferocious if you wish; that is, you
may choose the ‘greater than’ option. Now turn back
to the paragraph you came from.

201

There is uproar, with shouts of ‘Murder!’ and ‘Call the
constables!’ However, no one gets in your way as you
leave the inn, Turn to 197.

202

At the palace you join the queue of townspeople
waiting to bring their pleas before the king, Eventually
you come before an official who writes down the details
of your case, He tells you to come back in a week’s time
for an audience with a high dignitary, who will decide
whether you are fit to plead before the king, If you come
back in a week, turn to 297. If you cannot wait that long
and break into the palace in the meantime, turn to 147.

203
You are filled with the calm of Baochou Monastery.
Once more you are back there, performing the meniai
tasks that occupied you for so many days. Your body
moves calmly and naturally and you are mildly sur-
prised to observe that the wild swings of your adver-
sary’s sword fail to touch you, You close in, using
your opponent’s force against himself. He howls wits

CC

204~206

=ustration and launches a double-handed swing at
vou. You intercept the blow in mid-flight and turn to
void the blade, twisting his hands downwards. There
* a sharp crack as the bones of his arm break and he
crashes to the ground. You toss his sword away and
<eliver a blow into his back, penetrating through his
=mour as far as his black heart. Turn to 305.

204
‘tou get little sleep. The wind whispers conspiratorially,
and occasional sucking and gurgling noises from the
=elds suggest that vile Mudwomns are lurking near by.
The moon is slight, and directly above you the constel-
ation they call Death’s Messenger is glittering balefully
= the night sky. Is this an omen? The whispering of
=e wind grows louder and for a moment you fancy
you can see Death’s Messenger striding across the
=eld towards you, his skeletal figure gleaming with an
~nearthly light. You leap to your feet, grasping your
sword, and the apparition vanishes, It must have been
= illusion, brought on by your tiredness. Turn to 345

205
+s soon as the officials see your tattoos, they summon
zuards. You are beaten (deduct 2 points from your
Temporary STAMINA) and thrown out of the city. If
~ou now head north, turn to 81. If you set off
southwards, turn to gg.

206
S:ack-armoured barbarians move in to surround you.
Tne last sight your eyes will ever behold in this world
207-212

is the glittering steel of their raised swords Your
adventure is over,

207
You flee down the path in the darkness. Behind you the
howling takes on a mocking tone. Test your Luck. lf you
are Lucky, turn to 23. If you are Unlucky, turn to 256

208
If your Age is less than 15, turn to 372, Otherwise
turn to 13.

209
The image of your father freezes while you are in mic
move, then it fades away, Turn to 19.

210

You steel yourself, then head for the Red Water Inn
the most dangerous drinking house in town. It is saic
that the pool in which the inn’s denizens drink ‘
coloured red so that it won’t be so obvious whe=
bload is spilt. Roll 3 dice. If the result is less than your
PEROCITY, turn to 34. If the result is equal to o:
greater than your FEROCITY, turn to 151.

211
If you have the word ‘silk’ written on your Adventurz
Sheet, turn to 164. Otherwise, turn to 6$.

212
The dancing lights merge into one; they form a giant
white image of your enemy’s demon mask, its soulless

213-214

eyes staring blankly at you, its features twisted with
hatred. You shriek and run from the chamber, Behind
you, Meng calls: “You’re out of your mind!’ but you
ignore him. You race along the tunnel for many
minutes, before remembering that it was only a few
metres long, You stop and try to pull yourself together
>efore proceeding. Turn to 276

213

You make your way down the track in the increasing
gloom of evening, and soon the clamour behind you
fades. When you reach the main path, there is no sign
of the monk who was there earlier. You press on into
che valley, following the course of a mountain stream.
Turn to 129,

214
You just manage to evade two simultaneous attacks
=om warriors on either side of you by plunging into
se reeds, Arrows whiz after you, but you keep your
Sead low and finally put a safe distance between
yourself and the samurai. Tum to 289.

— rr
245217

215
You race off down the tunnel. A coarse voice calls
after you: ‘May the Fear be upon you!’ You run on,
until you are certain there is no pursuit. Turn to 63.

216
The other slaves don’t seem to realize that they could
escape at any time if only they would collaborate with
one another. Perhaps they just deserve to live out
their lives working for Kuangong. But you are destined
for greater things. Your opportunity comes when you
smash through the rock face and come upon an under-
ground stream. Its first spout drenches you, but it
gives you an idea: the stream must surface somewhere,
so, if you can only swim along it, you will be free.
Wasting no time, you grab the secret cache of food
which you have been storing for just such a moment
(note that you have 1 Provision on your Adventure
Sheet), then widen the hole in the rock face and plunge
into the wet blackness of the stream. Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, turn to 38, If you are Unlucky, tum to

149.

217
You come to, standing in front of Dry Jade. In your
hands is the clay bowl, which the Abbot takes from
you, He turns to another monk standing near by, a
monk with a white face, and with a smile, he flings the
bowl to the floor, where it breaks into a thousand
shards (cross the clay bowl off your Equipment List?.
Note down the word ‘turn’ on your Adventure Sheet
Dry Jade turns to you. “The true prize of the Deep

—

218

Land is in your heart,’ he declares, “You have nothing
more to learn from us, so return to the world.’ Your
STAMINA is restored to its permanent level. Turn to
281.

218

Maior notices the Sacred Sword of Tsui at your belt.
He points to it and asks if he may examine it, so you
hand it over reverently, Maior passes his hand over
the blade; there is a light crackling sound like static from
dne cloth. ‘A good blade for a hero,’ says the king. He
strikes a tiny gong on the reading desk. ‘There is discord
in the land, that I know, but I am too distant from my
people to know what to do. I need an agent.’ Into the
room glides a fat figure dressed in extravagant robes
Maior rises to his feet and offers you the sword back,
Take this and you will become my agent.’ Do you:

Take the sword and swear loyalty7 Turn to §2
Refuse, insisting that you are not
worthy? Turn to 370

Say that you will take the sword if
the mercenary leader is to be

brought to justice? Turn to 124

Or you may know of another option.

219-222

219
You all travel back to the wreckage that once was
your village and try to rebuild as best you can.
Eventually you make something of a life for yourself,
but you never avenge the death of your father,

220
The barbarians look you up and down as you enter
their camp, but not one of them lifts a weapon against
you, If you have the word ‘never’ written on your
Adventure Sheet, tum to 354; otherwise, turn to 169.

221
‘You are disturbing the peace of the mountain,’ says
the monk. ‘Either tell me this, or leave me in peace: what
is wide at its feet, narrow at its head?’ Will you reply:

Heaven? Turn to 173
A pine tree? Turn to 112
A mountain? Tur to 397
A giant? Turn to §7

Alternatively, you may carry on along your original
path (turn to 29§) or ignore the monk and take the
left-hand fork (turn to 271).

222
The temple you are in is unfamiliar, After some time a
white-faced monk enters and, seeing you, hurries off
to fetch others. They escort you out of the temple and
into the streets of Traole. If you head north from here
turn to 140. If you go south, turn to gg. If you stay ir
the town and make enquiries, turn to 375.

223-224

223
You split up and wander through the town, asking
about the mercenaries. Whenever you mention them,
nowever, the townspeople become suspicious and
refuse to talk to you. When you rejoin the others, you
discover that they have had the same experience,
although Quan learned from a priest at the temple that
most of the fighting is in the south, near the capital. If
you leave the town and travel south, turn to 14. If you
‘eave the town and head north, turn to 165. If you
stay in Yenshu in order to make more enquiries, turn

EO 335

224
With a roar, you leap past the surprised guards and
sprint towards the large tent in the middle of the
encampment. As you approach, the fearsome figure of
your father’s killer emerges. Turn to 346

w
hd

—

—

ai
5)
wnt y

- -?
’

,
at a
wr NS he At
Tt.)
m ~~
. 7

pr
<->? ‘

»

225-227

225

You charge up the last few steps and leap into the
chamber. Three red-robed figures get to their feet in
surprise and stare at you with dark eyes that glint
trom white faces. Their movements are controlled and
they have the poise of hunting spiders. Another flight
of stairs leads up, out of the chamber. If you press
home your attack, turn to 318. If you try to flee from
the chamber, turn to 76.

226
Soon the gaudily painted houses of Yenshu come into
sight, dominated by the grey tower which, you pre-
sume, rises from the magistrate’s tribunal. Few people
are about as you enter the town, and those you do
pass regard you warily before hurrying by. You remem-
ber that a distant uncle of your family lives in Yenshu.
He was always regarded as the black sheep of the
ramily, but he might give you a welcome. Tum to

145.

227

You bid the children farewell and head off northwards
Over the next few days of travel you discover that
Yao is more powerful than he lets on. One night, you
wake up to see him talking to an eagle, and you are
never sure where the food he invariably produces
comes from. Eventually you reach the Golden Crane
Mountains and Yao leads you along the treacherous
paths to his sheltered hut. If you ask him to teach you
nis magical arts, turn to 247. If you stay with him for a
short time, then carry on northwards, turn to 79

ee |
228-229

228

Your meagre finances are enough to buy a few drinks
in one of the rougher inns of the city. You pick out a
fellow with care and offer him a drink. He is soon
chattering away merrily and you craftily guide him on
to the subjects that interest you. He says that a bunch
of mercenaries in black lacquered armour passed
through the city recently, making themselves unpopu-
lar with everybody because of their foul manners and
habit of brawling. Eventually an officer of the Dragon
Guards told them to: leave. They apparently headed
northwards. If you leave the inn at once and make
your way to the North Gate, turn to 45. If you visit
the temple before leaving, tum to 258.

229
You bow respectfully to the monk. For a moment you
think he hasn't seen you, but then he looks up with 2
smile and says, ‘Answer me this: | have roots deep in

230

the ground, and | loom up, up, up above your head,
yet never grow, What am I?’ What will you reply:

A pine tree? Turn to 112

The heavens? Turn to 173
A mountain? Turn to 397
A giant? Turn to §7

Or, if you’d rather carry straight on down the path,
turn to 295.

230
With a start you awaken from a nightmare in which
mercenaries had laid waste your village. You look
around — your hut is safe, your father and mother are
sleeping soundly, Cross all Equipment and Notes off
vour Adventure Sheet

Next morning you get up and set out for the fields.
On the horizon you spot a cloud of dust approaching
and a sense of grim foreboding settles in the pit of
your stomach. Even before you can see the black
armour, you know. You run back to the village, shout-
‘ng to everyone to flee, but they ignore you. Then the
mercenaries arrive, Just as in your dream, the demon-
masked leader hacks down your father before your
appalled gaze. The other mercenaries round up villag-
ers to sell as slaves; you hide as your mother is
cragged, screaming, away from the corpse of her
husband, The barbarians fling burning torches into the
muts and leave. You cradle your father in your arms,
Sut it is too late. Perhaps you can learn from your
aream. Was there a message there for you? Turn to 1.

if fh i]

‘

« OVINTT TE as

it
7
i ’

'
’
.

231-234

231

Every day, just before the monks begin their practice,
you hide yourself in a cupboard overlooking the prac-
Fice hall. You observe the monks carefully and each
night you repeat their moves yourself. Write the word
‘crane’ on your Adventure Sheet. Add 1 year to your
Age, 2 points to your SKILL and 3 points to your
Permanent sTAMINA. Turn to 300.

232
Your landing is soft, but you almost black out from
nausea as the smell hits you. You stagger out of the
muddy pool in which you landed and run off down
the tunnel. When your head clears, you find yourself
travelling along a low tunnel, its stone walls lit by a
faint green luminescence. Tum to 326.

2353
Tf you can say where you are, you may leave this
place now,’ says Meng, Do you:

Ignore him and attack your enemy? Turn to 352

Say: ‘The Land of Roots’? Turn to 44

Say: ‘My mind’? Turn to 152

Say: The Demon Plane’? Turn to 333
234

As you rush him, the mercenary seems not to be
prepared for your attack. Then at the last moment he
dodges to one side and clouts you across the back of
your head. The world swims around you sickeningly,
but you are vaguely aware of having your hands tied

234

and being flung across the back of a horse. A Jong and
bumpy journey ensues, but it is painful for you to turn
your head, so you see little more than the horse’s
flank, Finally you are pitched to the ground. The
mercenary calls out: ‘Hey! Another worker for you!
You'll get a few years’ digging out of this one.’

Around you are dirty grey cliffs nddled with gaping
black holes. Clinking, as of metal on stone, echoes
faintly all around and you see a gang of slaves pushing
a trolley laden with stones out of one of the cave
mouths. Footsteps approach. Above you looms a short
fellow, dressed in fine purple clothes. He flicks a speck
of dust off his brocaded coat, and wrinkles his mous-
tache delicately as he examines you critically. TIl give
you fifty scrip,’ he says after a while.

‘Gold only,’ grates the mercenary.

235-236

With a sigh, the purple-clad fellow tosses a small
clinking bag to the barbarian, who tips its contents on
to his palm and slowly starts to count the tiny coins.
Your heart leaps as you realize that the rope round
your arms is loosening. As the mercenary counts his
payment you begin to ease yourself free, Finally, the
barbarian nods, satisfied, and rides off. Cross off any
Provisions you may have on your Adventure Sheet and
cross the wooden sword off your Equipment List; add
2 points to your FEROcITY. As the man dressed in
purple tums, you slip your hands out of their bonds. If
you attack him, turn to 306. If you wait to see what he
is going to do next, turn to 266

235
You pass through the gates into the bustling town. A
wave of confidence sweeps over you as you look
around. It’s time to make a few enquiries here. Turn to

375-

236
When you tell Dry Jade of your decision, he shrugs. ‘J
expected this; however, before you go, let me show
you something.’ He puts a wooden practice block —
the kind the monks use in their training — on the table
and tells you to relax. Once you are fully relaxed he
cells you to hit the block. Without thinking, you chop
at it, using the same gesture you have used in your
work since you entered the monastery. The block
shatters, “You are a good pupil,’ says Dry Jade, ‘Some
‘earn their martial arts the long way, but your hard
work and dedication have taught you the secret of our

237-238

style — to relax, and make all your movements as
natural as a crane in flight.’ Note down the word
‘sword’ on your Adventure Sheet. "You may leave now
with my blessing,’ says Dry Jade, ‘or you may stay a
little longer and help us in a small matter.’ If you
decide to stay, turn to 300. If you prefer to leave, turn
to 281.

237

By chance you bump into a merchant whose cart has a
broken wheel and he offers you employment as his
assistant. He is planning a trading mission out to the
lake-hut villages of the Shenglai people, far to the east
of Traole. As it is an arduous journey, he would be
glad of someone to help with the cart; he is even prepared
to pay you a share of the profits, A few days later, your
cart rattles out through the East Gate. You never return
to Traole and never avenge the death of your father. You
have adventures, true, but this one ends here.

238
It is easy to find a boarding house with a draughty
dormitory in which you can bed down. However, the
proprietor demands payment in cash, in advance. ff you
have any money, turn to 7. If you haver't, turn to 180.

239-240

239

After Sunai has been absent for three days, you become
very worried. You are just discussing going to the
tribunal to find out what has happened to her when
she tums up again. It’s obvious from her expression
that she has failed. Her face is pale, her hair is dishev-
elled and her hands shake as she takes the cup you
pass to her. She refuses to say what happened, but
msists that she is returning to Yenshu the very next
morning. The others are frightened by her reaction
and agree to go with her. It seems you will be on your
own from now on. Next morming, you thank Bofu for
his hospitality, bid your friends farewell, and, as they
head south, you leave by the North Gate. Turn to 81.

240
You look up into the impassive mask of your father’s
murderer. ‘Well, what is it?’ he demands. If you accuse
him of murder, turn to 32x. If you ask to join his
mercenary band, turn to §5.

241-243

241

You step through the doors into a massive chamber.
There is a clunk! as the doors close behind you, and
echoes dance about. Facing you is a large statue of
Am, god of the Isles of the Dawn. At his feet, a small
metal bowl gives off a thick green smoke. From a side
passage steps a monk. 1 am Dry Jade, Abbot of
Baochou Monastery,’ he says. “You are welcome.’ If
you tell him that you wish to become a monk, tum to
10g. If you ask him for assistance in your quest, turn

tO 355

242

The interior of the hut is sparsely furnished, with an
ash-filled fireplace in the middle of the room. A bat-
tered old kettle sits beside the fireplace, with an open
pat of leaves next to it. Against the far wall is a low
desk, on which bnishes hang from a rack and small
pieces of yellow paper are stacked in a neat pile
Drawn by curiosity, you look at the papers, on which
complicated characters are written in red ink If you
take some of the papers and leave the hut, turn to 35.
If you brew up some tea and wait for the hut’s
occupant to return, turn to 172.

243
After a few hours a prison warder brings you some
food. You can’t help noticing how frightened he is.
With a little more rest you will probably be well
enough to overpower him. You have no idea how
long the authorities intend to keep you here, or what
they will do with you when you are finally summoned

244~245

before them. Regain 2 points of Temporary STAMINA.
If you attack the guard on his next appearance, turn to
16. lf you wait for your summons, turn to 126

244
You draw your sword and, remembering the lessons
Jian taught you, prepare to confront Zhanshi,

ZHANSHI SKILL 7 STAMINA 10

If you defeat Zhanshi; turn to 123.

245

It isn’t long before Kuangong strides into the hut,
followed by his four guards. He looks you up and
down. ‘You see, it really isn’t worth while trying to
escape,” he chides,

The four guards tie your hands and feet, drag you
from the hut and sling you over the back of a mule.
As soon as you reach the mine, irons are fitted to your
feet. You are assigned to the escapees detail and all
hope deserts you. Your adventure ends here.

246-247

246
The skeleton dashes the sword from your hand, hurls
its own blade aside and grasps your neck in its bony
fingers. The bleached white skull presses against your
tace and a hissing voice sounds in your head. ‘Now
you are mine, you will do my bidding?’

You are woken by the first bright rays of the sun
across your face. Once again you are wet and caked
with mud, Your sTAMINA is restored to its permanent
level. Add 2 points to your FEROCITY. Tum to 345.

247

‘If you wish to learn magic,’ says Yao, ‘the first thing
to understand is that everything you see, hear and
touch is an illusion, created by your own mind, You
should think of yourself as a character in a story
created by your own imagination. Then you will find
that anything is possible, All the chants, talismans and
gestures that I will teach you are no more than
window dressing.’

But teach you he does. Soon you have dozens of
spells at your disposal. Note down the word ‘magic’
on your Adventure Sheet. Several days later, you say
farewell to Master Yao, and continue on your way.
Turn to 295.

248-249

248
The figure pauses half-way down the stairs, its foot
poised above a step. Its eyes widen as it stares at you
Then it whirls round and races back up the stairs,
uttering a guttural cry of ‘Ghost!’ A flurry of footsteps
patters away.

You cautiously follow the steps up. At the top is an
empty chamber, with another flight of stairs leading
up out of it. You ascend them with great care, but
your way is blocked by a wooden door which you
cannot open, You have no option but to go back
down and carry on along the tunnel. Turn to 63

249
Before you leave, Dry Jade bids you farewell. ‘May
Arn bless your path and protect you from harm.’ He
hands you a brooch decorated with the circular symbol
of Arn. (Make a note of this circular brooch on your
Equipment List.)

You set off back the way you came, this time heading
south, and trudge all the way back to Traole. If you
have the word ‘offers’ on your Adventure Sheet, turn to
377. Otherwise, turn to 235.

250-251

250

You drag the guard’s body out on to the balcony,
then make your way back in and along the corridor,
This section of the palace seems to provide living
quarters for courtiers. Sneaking into a chamber, you
and some clothes with which to disguise yourself.
Feeling safer in your disguise, you start searching
through the maze of corridors and chambers for the
sing’s personal quarters. Turn to 383,

251

Now that your attempt to gain help from the magis-
trate has failed, your thoughts turn to your father’s
last words: ‘Go to Baochou Monastery.’ The monks
there teach fighting arts that enable one person to
defeat many. But they are proud of their skills, and do
not teach them lightly. You know that the monastery
lies to the north, beyond your village and in the
direction of the provincia! capital, Traole. Leaving
Yenshu behind, you start to retrace your steps. Make a
note of the word ‘king’ and tum to 1165.

252-254

252

He nods sympathetically as you tell him of your quest.
Then he says simply: ‘I know who you're searching for
~] can find them.’ He agrees to meet you at the North
Gate the next morning. Make a note of the number
356 on your Adventure Sheef. At any time when you
are given the option to leave by the North Gate, turn
instead to paragraph 356 to wait for your companion.
Tur to 197.

253

As darkness falls, you follow the path down into the
valley, encountering a bubbling stream splashing over
rocks. Spray fills the air with moisture, and out of the
stream rises an ominous shape: part man, part fish,
with razor-sharp fins instead of hands. Water laps
round your feet, preventing you from moving, and the
Yuemo approaches, its mouth opening and closing
rhythmically.

YUEMO SKILL 7 STAMINA 8

if you have a pronged spear, add 2 to your Attack
Strength while fighting the Yuemo. If you win this
dattle, turn to 17.

254
You stare back at him. He seems disconcerted that you
hold your ground and his eyes drop, faced by your
fearless gaze. He gestures to his men, however, and
they seize your arms from behind before you can
move. ‘I'll give you something to remember me by,’
says your enemy, striding over to the fire and drawing

255

a flaming brand from it. He waves it before your eyes,
then presses it against your chest Agony grips your
whole body. A searing, blinding pain shoots through
your limbs. You lose consciousness. Deduct 2 points
from your Temporary STAMINA.

When you awaken, you are alone; the mercenaries
have struck camp and left. You are terribly thirsty, so
you crawl over to a nearby stream and take great
gulps of cool water. As you wash, you realize that an
ugly scar now marks your chest. The wound is still
tender — the mere touch of cloth bringing waves of
pain. You must find some way of wreaking your
revenge on the mercenary leader. Turn to 273

2
There is only a faint light coming from the walls of
the tunnel. If you have a torch and wish to light it
before proceeding, turn to 301; otherwise, turn to 9.

256-258

256

You charge down the darkened slope, leaping over
rocks. Faster and faster you race, until your feet splash
into water and you tumble head first. Deduct 1 point
from your sTAMINA. Dragging yourself to your feet,
you find yourself face to face with the ghastly appari-
tion of a Yuemo: part fish, part man, with razor-sharp
ins which slash at you.

YUEMO SKILL 7 STAMINA 8

lf you defeat the Yuemo, turn to 17.

257
You touch the bowl. Its surface feels smooth, cool
then white hot. You try to pull your hand away, but it
is too late. You are incinerated. Your dream of revenge

iS OVET.

258
The main temple in Traole is a huge building, a
complex of shrines and altars. If you have a circular
arooch, turn to 130. If you have the word ‘silk’ on
your Adventure Sheet, turn to 334, Otherwise, turn to

33

259-262

259
You hurry back, stepping gingerly over the body of

the Chonggui’s host. Finally you reach the junction
and make your way along the other passage. Turn to
284.

260

The gaudily painted houses of Yenshu soon come into
sight. Quan eagerly points out the large sloping roof
of the temple, which he has visited, and the tower
tising from the magjistrate’s tribunal. Few people are
about as you wander the streets and those you do
pass regard you warily before hurrying past. The sun
is low in the sky, so you must find somewhere to bed
down for the night. You remember that a distant uncle
of your family lives in Yenshu ~ but he was always
regarded as something of a black sheep, so you have
no idea what kind of welcome he may give you. Write
the word ‘art’ on your Adventure Sheet. If you go off on
your own to try to find your uncle, turn to 145. If you
stay with the others in a boarding house, turn to 61.

261
You attract the mercenaries’ attention by yelling insults
at them and waving your arms, then you run away
from their camp. A few arrows whine into the ground
near you, but you get away safely. Unfortunately, none
of the farmers seems to have been able to escape, and
now the mercenaries are on their guard. Turn to 131.

262
You re-enter the bustling city, avoiding the constables

ee |

263-264

and Dragon Guard patrols. If now you look for an inn,
turn to 36. If you go to the temple, tum to 258. If you
head out through the South Gate, turn to 99.

263

You drift off into sleep and when you reawaken it is
dark, You thread your way through the trees during
the night, and when the dawn comes you find yourself
looking out over the countryside from a high vantage
point, safe in the knowledge that you have escaped a
life of slavery. You set off, sure it won't take long to
work out where in the isles you are. Turn to 18.

264
A plume of smoke rises from an encampment a few
kilometres away and, even from this distance, you
think you can make out the distinctive black armour of the
mercenaries. If you creep up close, remaining hidden, turn
to 134. lf you march boldly into the camp, turn to 390.

265-266

265

It is a long corridor with cells on both sides, and you
peer into them in the hope of finding your friends. By
the time you do find them, however, you can hear
shouts coming from the other end of the comidor.
Guards charge along it towards you, Feverishly you
cast about for a way of escape, but there is nowhere to
go. The guards rush towards you and attack with their
jointed staves. Your adventure ends here

266
The man gestures to you to rise. ‘I am Kuangong,’ he
says, ‘and I own this mine. If you behave yourself, you
will find life here tolerable and productive. Now go
and join your work detail — you will find them resting
in their living cave, yonder.’ He points to one of the
dark entrances in the cliff face As you make your way
to the cave, you take the opportunity to scan the area,
noting that the mine is enclosed on three sides by
sheer cliff faces which are riddled with cave workings
Behind Kuangong is an ornate house, next to a pretty
lake with decorated walkways

Within the cave you are greeted without enthusiasm
by a gang of slaves. They explain to you that if you
work hard you will get decent food and conditions.
but that, if you make trouble, everyone will suffer.
Soon a gong sounds and you make your way over to
one of the mine tunnels. Your job is to chip away at
the rock face with a pick, while others carry the debris
to a waiting trolley, After a day’s work you are too
tired to think of anything but getting a good night's

|

267

rest. The same happens the next day, and the next. By
the time you have grown accustomed to the work you
will have lost track of how many days have passed

Add 1 year to your Age, 2 points to your Permanent
STAMINA and 2 points to your FEerocitTy. If you
cetermine to escape, turn to 216, If you wait in the
mines, hoping to earn your freedom through hard
work, turn to 73.

207

The monk's body lies still. As you watch, it gradually
‘ades until nothing is left. You notice Meng standing
near by. “The way lies ahead,’ he says, pointing to a
wide corridor leading out of the chamber. This in turn
leads to a similar chamber. The first sight to greet you
ere is your father, holding out his hands to you. ‘He
can be freed if you will but give him your most prized
possession, Meng says, Do you:

Give him your most prized
possession (underline the itern on

your Equipment List)? Turn to 387
Attack him? Turn to 117
Ignore him and walk on? Turn to 209
268-269

268

The young man tells you that the Isles of the Dawn
can learn much about arms and warfare from the
warriors of Hachiman. He says that when there were
samurai in the city recently, he watched them practising
and marvelled at their control and self-discipline. When
you enquire further, he tells you that the Hachiman
samurai Jeft a week ago, but he doesn’t know where
they were heading for next. Turn to 156

269

Once agreement has been reached, Sunai takes over,
organizing preparations for the journey, Somehow
you obtain some food and scraps of wood to reinforce
your sandals for the walk. You set off in the crisp
morning air, making good time along the roads. Soon
you are passing the deserted settlement which you
encountered on your way to Yenshu. None of you can
bear to return to your village, so you hurry on. Dusk
falls around you; the shadows are growing long when
you almost bump into an old man who is standing in
the middle of the path. After a few moments of
huffing, fidgeting and tugging at his beard, he returns
your bows. Then he turns on his heel and strides
away, pausing only to beckon to you to follow him.

You travel with Master Yao for several days, learning
little about him but finding out plenty of trivial facts
Quan confides to you that he thinks Yao is a little
mad — he is certainly forgetful, but he seerns harmless
Add 1 year to your Age. Eventually you reach the
hills overlooking Traole, the capital of your province

270-271

Yao says that he is walking on to the mountains
beyond, but the children are eager to enter the huge
city, If you decide to accompany Yao, turn to 227. If

you bid him a good journey and enter the city, turn to
86

270

You sidle down the slope towards the encampment.
The shrieks of agony grow louder. If you charge in to
attack the mercenaries, turn to 120. If you try to
distract their attention, in the hope that some of the
villagers will be able to get away, turn to roo.

271
As you try to pass the monk, he gets to his feet and
bars your way. He raises his hands in the way a crane

prepares for flight, and attacks
MONK SKILL 7 STAMINA 12

If you defeat the monk, turn to 7o

272-275

272
4 monstrous tongue licks out of the darkness to attack
Ou.

CESUOSHE’S TONGUE © sxiLL6 = =S$TAMINA 12

= you're fighting without a weapon, you must reduce
sour Attack Strength by 4 points. If you defeat the
-ongue, turn to 337.

273
‘You turn back southwards, through the mountains
Although you are impatient to deal with your enemy,
you must find a way of ensuring that he will receive
nis just deserts. Note down the word ‘to’ on your
Auventure Sheet. If you have a red robe, tum to 129;
otherwise, turn to 235.

274
‘Vith the Arena Beast slain, you recognize an opportu-
nity to escape. If you can leap up into the crowd, you
may be able to lose yourself in the crush. You disguise
your intention by walking round the arena, your
sword raised in triumph. Then you nimbly vault over
‘ne barrier into the tiers of spectators. Chaos erupts
around you, Roll 3 dice. If the result is less than your
FSROCITY, turn to 84. If the result is equal to or
ercater than your FEROCITY, turn to 196

275

At your confident answer, the puzzler looks taken
3oack. He peers at you suspiciously, scratches his
sead, mumbles, ‘Umm, yes,’ and shuffles off. The
276-278

thought crosses your mind: I wonder whether he knew
the correct answer himselff You resume your journey.
Add z year to your Age and 1 point to your Perma-
nent STAMINA.

You reckon you have covered over half the distance
to Shoudu when you hear about a band of warriors
from Hachiman that is said to be roaming the country-
side to the east. If you make a diversion to seek out
the warriors, turn to 349, If you push on to the capital,
turn fo 289.

276
As you walk along the tunnel, you are hit by a sudden
feeling of dizziness. It passes, however, and you
emerge into a large hall — the hall of a temple. If you
have a white face, turn to 69, Otherwise, turn to 139.

277
The fragrance of the leaves lulls you. Quan says they

are from the mulberry tree and are used to make a fine
fabric. You light a small fire and settle down for the
night. If you stay on guard, turn to rqxr. If you rest
your weary limbs and go to sleep, turn to 194.

278
The abbot sucks in his breath. ‘It is a shame that you
cannot control your emotion,’ he says. Nevertheless
he allows you to begin training. Your tutor is Flying
Turtle, a short, bald fellow. Every day he takes you
out into the woods behind the monastery, shows you 2
pile of wood, and tells you to stamp on every piece

279-280

until it is broken, You then carry the broken wood
pack to the monastery, where it is used to fuel the
sitchen fires. You don’t seem to be learning much self-
defence but, when you protest, Flying Turtle just
shouts at you

Weeks and months pass. Add 1 year to your Age, 4
Doints to your Permanent STAMINA and 2 points to
your SKILL. Write the word ‘wood’ on your Adventure
Sheet, Turn to 300

279

You start to sit up, preparing to leap at the old man,
Dut he seems to guess what you're up to. He flicks a
paper talisman at you and gestures with his hands
The paper sticks to your forehead and starts to burn,
Unbearable pain shoots through your body and the
‘ast sound you hear is a high, keening wail. This is the
end of your adventure.

280
The magistrate cuts off your protests with an imperious
gesture. Reaching into a cup placed before him, he
takes out several coins and tosses them to the floor
Straight away, the ring of constables closes in on you,
whirling their staves. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
‘urn to 105. If you are Unlucky, turn to 12,

é

281-284

281
If you plan to travel to the south, turn to 249. If you
would rather head northwards, turn to 295

282

The second thug lets out a screech as he slumps down:
against a wall, twitches, then lies still. In one of the
houses near by a bamboo screen scrapes as it is pulled
back. A ruddy light across the rooftops foreshadows
the imminent arrival of dawn. If you stay to examine
the bodies of the ruffians, turn to 28. If you flee from
the alleyway and leave town as quickly as you can
turn to 18.

283

You crouch, remembering the lessons Jian taught you:
no fancy flourishes, no wasted energy — just look for
an opening and exploit it. But your opponent is
skilled, too. You cross swords a dozen times, with
neither of you gaining an advantage, As he is wearing
armour, you realize you'll have to try something
special if you are to win. You feint to his head, ther
try a leg sweep. He falls but grabs your leg and pulls
you down with him. Then you are wrestling on the
black soil. He rolls on top of you, the devilish mask
staring ferociously down at you. The sun glints on the
horns of his helmet, and he brings his head down
sharply ., . Your adventure ends here,

284
Smaller tunnels feed into the main one, and soon you
are wading through a foul-smelling stream. A glimmer

285

‘rom up ahead grows — it’s the end of the tunnel. You
nurry towards it and peer out over the river which flows
shrough the middle of the city, Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 113. If you are Unlucky, turn to 2,

285

Your eyes strain into the darkness and then the hairs
on your neck stand up straight. The creature you face
— which may be a bear but may be something worse —
snuffles and grunts, turning its head this way and that
Finally it shuffles off. You move on warily, casting
anxious glances into the darkness. The path leads to a
tuge gate set into the mountain. A pair of black
wooden doors stand slightly ajar, IF you have the
word ‘silk’ written on your Adventure Sheet, turn to
135; otherwise, turn to 24x
286-288

286

As you tum to leave, you can’t help but notice a glint
of gold on the sword at Master Yao’s belt. When you
ask him about it, he tells you that it is the Sacred
Sword of Tsui, a bane of demons. Your father’s mur-
derer wore the mask of a demon, so it seems only just
that you should take this weapon. You clip it to your
belt and stride off. Note that you have the golden
sword on your Adventure Sheet Whenever you use it
in combat, you may add 2 points to your Attack
Strength. Turn to 29§.

287
One of the officials recognizes you from your previous
appearance at the tribunal. Before you can escape you
are surrounded and beaten, then hurled into a cell. Next
morming you are summarily executed. Your adventure
ends here.

288
You tnidge along the polders, checking with Quan
every now and again to make sure he knows the
proper route. Soon, you begin to see a range of hills
which rises abruptly out of the plane ahead of you
The steep slopes are lush with rich, green foliage.

Quan points excitedly towards them. ‘Yenshu lies jus:
south of those hills!’ he cries. No sooner has he spokes
than there is a dreadful sucking noise from the field te
your left and a slime-covered Mudworm, fully as lonz
as a man, rears up, its blind snout questing towarcs

289

Quan. It will be on him in moments, unless you can
intercept it and fight it off.

GIANT MUDWORM SKILL 12 STAMINA ©

if you defeat the Mudworm, turn to 357.

289

The rest of the journey passes uneventfully. Eventually
Shoudu rises before you, sprawling along the banks of
the mighty Red River, At first you don’t take in its
size, but as you approach the city you begin to realize
chat your home district, fields, woods, hills and all,
would fit comfortably within its walls. You pass
through the enormous North Gate and look around,
Although there is the bustle of everyday business,
there are signs that the civil war has scarred the
capital. On one side the charred remnants of a building
dear silent testimony while, on another, a pair of flint-
reatured Dragon Guards survey the citizens with barely
disguised contempt. Nevertheless Shoudu is the seat
af the God-King and by ancient tradition he may be
Petitioned in cases of great injustice If you have a
“ooden plaque and wish to use it, turn to 302, If you
seek to petition the king, turn to 202, Or you may try
-0 break into the palace: turn to 147.
290-292

ad } 3

P j ‘ ref

290

There must be almost fifty people crammed into the
strange building. [ntricate machinery stands idle, wait-
ing for the combination of knowledge and motive
power that will set it going. The imposing figure of
the rebel leader climbs on to a squat cylinder. Although
quite old, she plainly has plenty of energy. Most of
her speech makes little sense to you, with its references
to ‘Merzei’s great vision’ and ‘government by council’;
but there’s no doubting the enthusiasm of the assem-
bled group. You push your way towards the front as
the leader introduces Suiyuan, a young man who
urges the assembled crowd to arm for the struggle
Then everybody is chanting: ‘Down with the tyrant!’
The atmosphere is electric. You can feel the violence
hanging in the air like a heat-haze before a storm. If
you leave the building before the storm breaks, turn to
49. If you join in the chanting, turn to 162.

i

291
At your last blow, your enemy simply dissolves into
splinters of light, A shaft of pain shoots through your
head, If you have a clay bowl written down on your
Adventure Sheet, crass it off. Add 4 points to your
FEROCITY. If you have a white face, turn to 69. If you
are wearing a red robe, tum to 93.

292
The constables faugh at you when they see the paltry
sum you are offering. Unfortunately, bribery is a
serious offence, even of such a small amount, and you
are sentenced to slavery. All your possessions are

2935-295

taken from you {cross them off your Adventure Sheef)
Four constables escort you on a week-long journey to
the mine where you will work.

Here, dirty grey cliffs are riddled with gaping black
holes. The clinking of metal on stone echoes faintly all
around, and you see a gang of slaves pushing a trolley
laden with stones out of one of the cave mouths, The
constables throw you to the ground and leave.

Footsteps approach. Above you looms a short fellow,
dressed in fine purple clothes. He flicks a speck of dust
off his brocaded coat and wrinkles his moustache in
disapproval as he examines you critically. Turn to 266

293
The prisoners curse you as you abandon them. After a
while you find the cells in which your friends are held,
If you free them, turn to 125. If you spend a little time
talking to them first, turn to 389.

294
He laughs in your face, hissing like a snake. ‘Take yourself
out of here, brat, before I teach you what it means to bea
mercenary.” If you attack him now, turn to 346. If you
hurry out of the camp and make new plans, turn to 131

295
Eventually you come through the mountains and look
out across an expanse of rice fields which stretch all
the way to a glistening silver tibbon on the far
horizon: the sea! If you have the word ‘to’ on your
Adventure Sheet, turn to 395, Otherwise, turn to 264.

296-297

296
The others think that you should be the one to go and
present the case to Yenshu’s magistrate. Only one
person is allowed to petition the tribunal over any
particular case and Sunai insists that you are the best
speaker, You can’t really refuse, so you are soon on
the streets, heading for the imposing official residence
of the magistrate. Turn to 176.

297

On reporting to the palace the following week, you
are shown into a large, circular audience-chamber and
told to kneel before the throne at one end. Into the
room glides a corpulent figure, swathed from head to
foot in the most elegant silks and fine brocade. He
seats himself on the throne and tells you that he is
Pantu, official Adviser to His Majesty. After listening
impassively to your case, he nods his head and gestures
to a guard. Then he leaves the chamber without a
word, The guard escorts you down a corridor and
pushes you roughly into a small cell, slamming the
door behind you and hurrying away. Over the next
tew days you learn altogether too much about the
sadistic appetites of Pantu, the king’s Adviser. Your
fate is not a pleasant one.
298—299

298
The other figure is dressed in the red robes of a monk
As soon as he sees you, he crouches then, faster than
thought, lashes out. Your mind goes blank

You awaken to see the concerned faces of two monks
looking down at you. You are no longer in the
tunnels. ‘I am Dry Jade,’ says one of the monks
‘Welcome to Baochou Monastery.” Dry Jade explains
that you were accidentally involved in a contest be-
tween their monastery and another. If you thank Dry
Jade for his kindness and leave the monastery, turn to
249. If you ask him about becoming a monk, tum to

109

299
You point out to the others that the best future you
can hope for is to build a new life in this town
Reluctantly, they agree with you; you all split up and
search through the town for places to stay and work
Turn to 328

300-401

300
You are summoned before a council of the highest-
ranking monks in Baochou Monastery. Dry Jade tells
you that, because of your special qualities, you have
been selected to represent the monastery in a quest to
recover a sacred relic, a drinking vessel said to have
belonged to Shazi, a prophet of Am in ancient times.
The relic is hidden in the realm below, a mysterious
underworld full of hidden dangers. You are led to the
black marble gates which mark the entrance to the
underworld, where the monks bid you farewell. Turn

tO 399

301

By the guttering torchlighl you can see several tunnels
‘eading in different directions, but they are all too
narrow to squeeze through, After a short distance, a
set of stone steps to your left leads up. Peering up it,
you see a red-robed figure at the top, black eyes
-egarding you from a chalk-white face. Then the figure
>egins to descend the stairs. If you turn and flee along
sne tunnel, tum to 215. If you wait to see what is
soing to happen, turn to go. If you attack this appari-
10n, turn to 182
302-303

302
You present yourself at the palace and show the
wooden plaque. The official eyes you suspiciously but
when you proudly declare that you are the personal
agent of Ambassador Keiko, he grudgingly lets you in
You stride across the courtyard to the main palace
building, then step between the enormous jade doors
of the Great Hall. Check your Adventure Sheet: if you
have either of the words ‘magic’ or ‘silk’ written there,
or if you possess paper talismans, turn to 11 Other-
wise, turn to 383,

303
Roll 2 dice. If the result is less than your sTAMINA
turn to 88. If the result is equal to or greater than your
STAMINA, tur fo Igo,

394-395

304
Soon you find yourself on the streets of Traole Add
1 point to your LUCK and 1 point to your SKILL. Since
you have just escaped from prison, you decide you
had better leave as quickly as possible. If you want to
travel north, turn to 8x. If you decide to travel south,
turn to gg,

305
A red haze fills your mind as you stand over the body
of your defeated enemy, The mercenaries are waiting,
watching to see what your next move will be, If you
spit on the body and walk away, tum to 206. If you
wish to don your enemy's mask and helmet and take
command of the mercenaries, turn to 72.
306-307

306

As the man reaches out with his hand to make some
gesture you grab his outstretched arm and yank
sharply. An almost comical expression of surprise
crosses his face and he tumbles to the ground. You
leap up, looking for a way out. An ornate building
stands near by, beside a lake crossed by prettily
decorated walkways. Beyond it loom the grey, cave-
riddled cliffs, surrounding you on all sides but one. In
that direction the mercenary is riding off along a dusty
road, You turn to see four men walking calmly out of
the building and levelling their crossbows at you.

The man you threw to the ground picks himself up
and starts to brush the dust from his clothes. He seems
very calm. ‘A bad start, slave. It doesn’t do to behave
with such discourtesy towards Kuangong, your host
Now go and join your work detail in yonder cave.’ He
points to one of the dark holes high up in the cliff,
into which a gang of sweating slaves has just disap-
peared, pushing an empty trolley. Add 2 points to
your FEROCITY. If you go up to the cave, turn to ror,
lf you stay and argue, turn to 183.

 & 507
“if ee The doors open smoothly, revealing dimly lit corridors
menage one beyond. Here, flaming sconces burn on the walls, and
in their guttering light you can see passages leading
both left and right; a tunnel continues straight on. ‘A
weight is upon your shoulders,’ says Meng. ‘Do you
yet know where you are?’ Which passage do you
follow:

308-309

The left-hand one? Turn to 58
The right-hand one? Turn to 193
The middle one? Turn to 158

308
You strain with the effort, but your opponent is too
strong. He twists your arm until your eyes fill with
tears, then he lets go. “You aren’t strong enough yet
to be a mercenary,’ he says. “You're still a child’ He
leaves you rubbing some life back into your arm. Turn

to 197.

399
The tribunal is easy to find and soon you stand within
its courtyard, waiting to bring your case. If you have a
tattooed face, turn to 205. If you have the word ‘staff
on your Adventure Sheet, turn to 287. Otherwise turn
to 361,

410-3 It

310

The mercenaries push on southwards; you continue to
track them at a safe distance, After several weeks you
see a horseman ride into the camp and spend some
minutes in the leader’s tent. When he emerges, you
notice his livery — the symbo! of the golden fist is
embroidered on his equipment. Soon afterwards the
mercenaries pack up and start travelling; now, however,
they are riding at a brisk pace and soon leave you
behind. For two days you follow in their wake, tracking
them by making enquiries of local farmers. Then the
trail goes cold. Alone in unfamiliar country, you can
do little but head for the nearest large town. Farmers
give you directions that will take you to Shoudu, the
magnificent capital of the Isles of the Dawn. Add 1
year to your Age and 1 point to your Permanent
STAMINA, {um to 289

311
The warder is unprepared for your attack and you
knock him out easily. You take his keys (note them
down on your Equipment List) and leave your cell. [f
you make a break for it straight away, turn to 59. If
you inspect the other cells first, turn to 178.
512-313

312

You untether the horses, then you set light to one of
the outlying tents and sneak round to the back of
another, When the mercenaries spot the fire, they all
rush across to put it out and in the confusion you
manage to untie the farmers. As you are leading them
out of the camp, however, a sleepy figure emerges
from the tent right in front of you

MERCENARY SKILL 7 STAMINA 10

If you defeat the mercenary in fewer than 10 Attack
Rounds, turn to 6, Otherwise, turn to 206,

313
You catch a glimpse of flaring nostrils and eyes shot
with yellow before a claw swats you. You sense the
stench of animal fur close by, then you black out, Add
2 points to your FEROCITY

When you wake up, it is dawn. You stare longingly up
the path, but fear presses hard upon you. You stretch
your aching body and set off down the track. There is
no sign of the monk you saw last night. Turn to 295

314-3°7

314
You rejoin the ship before it leaves the harbour, It sails
out into the vastness of the sea, Adventures aplenty
await you on the high seas, but this one is over. You
have failed to avenge your father.

315
You leave the drunk’s body lying in the gutter, where
it belongs. If you seek out some other way of contact-
ing the rebels, turn to 24. Or you could set off north:
turn to 1490

316

You point out to the magistrate that the despoilers of
your village were mercenaries, not bandits, and that
they will prevent the peasants from paying their rice
tax to his tribunal, He rubs his eyes and glares at you
‘Less impertinence from you! Return to your village
immediately!’ he croaks. If you follow his instructions,
turn to xo. If you refuse, turn to 280

S17
You draw the sacred sword, and a gasp goes up from
the mercenaries. ‘Wait!’ calls the leader. ‘Let me see
that sword!’ He strides up to you and wrenches the
sword from your grip before you can react. ‘Far too
good for the likes of you,’ he says. Turn to 206.

J

318-319

318
You leap forward but, with a deft movement, one of
the figures grabs your arm and pulls you to the
ground. You try to defend yourself, but a hand darts
out and raps you on the head _.. you black out. Turn
to 188.

319

The road glows brighter and the rich scent of the
leaves makes you feel that the whole world about you
is living and breathing, an extension of your own
body. Shapes loom up in the darkness on either side of
the path, twisted shapes from which leaves flutter, and
a musky sibilance glides towards you. Ahead, the light
grows brighter. A huge, slithering shape rears its head,
like an impossibly beautiful Mudworm. Sightless eyes
quest for you, and a melodious, wordless voice speaks
soothingly in your head. If you wish to resist the
creature, roll 2 dice: if the result is less than your
FEROCITY, turn to 64 If the result is equal to or
greater than your FEROCITY, tum to 106, If you
abandon yourself to the ecstatic aura of the creature
turn to 194,

420-321

320

A monk enters. Unlike yours, his face is not painted
white, but it registers surprise when he sees you. He
leaves without speaking, returning a few minutes later
with the Abbot, Dry Jade. “You must have returned
from the Land of Roots,’ he says. “This is Baochou
Monastery. Although you are not of our sect, we can
offer you hospitality.’ If you stay for only a few days
before leaving and heading back to Traole, tum to
249, If you wish to join the monastery, you must wash
the white paint off your face (cross it off your Adven-
ture Sheet) and turn to 109.

321
He laughs mirthlessly. ‘I admire your presumption,’ he
hisses, ‘but I advise you to come back and face me
when you have the skill and the wits to succeed’
Anger wells up in you at his contemptuous words
Roll 3 dice, If the result is less than your FEROCITY,
turn to 346, If the result is equal to or greater than
your FEROCITY, turn to 254

WAS A a
‘ ~ , AN »\, ' WN L Wale ! iI 322
Y \\N DA / i | Within the cloud of dust people are gesticulating

_ frantically and shouting wildly and, beyond them, you
can see a wall of advancing soldiers. Then the dust
cloud is upon you and you are caught within a
teeming confusion of bodies. You look around for the
others, but all you can make out is vague shapes.

_ Hands grab you and a moment Jater you are grappling
with an armoured figure.

DRAGON GUARD SKILL STAMINA 10

If you beat the guard, turn to 71. If your sTAMINA
_ drops to 1 exactly, turn to 159

323
_ Before you can react, two warriors strike out at you,
one from each side. Against their perfectly timed
simultaneous attack you can do nothing. Mercifully,
their blades are razor sharp; your end is swift.

324

He moves too quickly for you to be sure what happens
next. You ward off one blow but feel a sharp pain in
your neck that makes your limbs go limp. You remem-
ber hearing about a technique called the Striking Cobra
which requires such skill that only a handful of experts
are said to possess it, One of these experts is Merzei,
the former monk and revolutionary who helped bring
King Maior to power. As Royal Guards drag your
1 oe fg ee” 7° a: paralysed body to the dungeon, you curse the bad

' . dN , fortune which led to your defeat by a mank of Baachou,
Your adventure ends here.
325-327

325

You crouch behind a polder and hold your breath as
the horseman comes to a halt, sending up a cloud of
dust. He shouts in a harsh accent: You, ratlings! Come
here!’ His harness jingles as he dismounts. Now is
your chance. You leap out from your hiding place and
charge him, brandishing your trusty wooden sword.
Roll 2 dice. If the total is less than your FEROCITY,
turn to §4. If the total is equal to or greater than your
FEROCITY, turn to 234.

326

The tunnel narrows and the glow from the walls
lessens. The ground beneath your feet becomes soft
and spongy, and you can hear a throbbing noise
coming from up ahead. Then the whole tunnel moves!
The ceiling lowers and you realize that you are walking
down the gullet of some huge monster! If you attack
the creature, turn to 272. If you have a torch, and you
wish to use it, turn to rog. If you turn tail and flee,
turn to 359

32

‘First you must find the culprit’ says Maior. ‘I hesitate
to use my father’s techniques, but I suppose the
situation calls for it. Picture the man!’ You concentrate
hard on the demon mask of your enemy, while Maior
stares at you, softly humming a single note. The mask
becomes larger and larger, consuming your whole
mind until. . .

You stand in the mercenaries’ camp, Your enemy steps

328-329

out of the tent in front of you. ‘Who in the seven hells
are you?’ he says

‘Your nemesis,’ you reply. His hand leaps to his sword
hilt but the golden sword moves faster. The demon
mask looks down at the bloody stump of its sword
hand. It lets out a bestial growl, then its left hand
reaches down to its belt. You raise your sword for the
killing blow but, before you can strike, a flash of metal
from the mercenary’s belt Aies true to your heart. For
a few seconds you stare at the dagger hilt, dimly
aware of your enemy’s lifeless body collapsing to the
blood-soaked ground. You have found your revenge,
but have paid the ultimate price.

328
As luck would have it, you soon find an opportunity at
a nearby basket weaver’s shop. The man’s son has gone
off to join the army and he needs someone to help him
with his craft. You settle in easily and soon pick up
enough ability to be of some use to the basket weaver.
Add i year to your Age and 3 points to your
Permanent sTAMINA. Over months of work you
manage to save up 10 Gold Pieces. When the news
comes that the basket weaver’s son has been killed, you
realize that you must now choose between staying on
as an apprentice (turn to 78) or pursuing your quest to
avenge your father and find your mother (tum to 138).

329
After a while, the agonized shrieking stops. Their
sport over, the mercenaries return to their activities:
330-331

polishing their weapons and armour, cooking food and
practising their warlike skills. Several of them take up
positions on guard at the edge of the encampment. If
you creep silently away and plan your next move,
tur to 134, If you try to make your way into the
enemy's camp, turn to 206.

330
You break down, sobbing, and admit your guilt. The

magistrate questions you about the details of your
plot, but of course you can tell him nothing. You are
sentenced to slavery. All your possessions are taken
(cross them off your Adventure Sheet}. Make a note of
the word ‘staff’ on your Adventure Sheet

Four constables escort you on a week-long journey to
the mine where you will work. Here, dirty grey cliffs
are riddled with gaping black holes. Clinking, as of
metal on stone, echoes faintly all around, and you see
a gang of slaves pushing a trolley laden with stones
out of one of the cave mouths, The constables throw
you to the ground and leave

Footsteps approach. Above you looms a short fellow,
dressed in fine purple clothes. Idly he flicks a speck of
dust off his brocaded coat and wrinkles his moustache
as he examines you with some distaste. Turn to 266.

331

The creature twitches several times, then rapidly melts
away until all that is left is the corpse of an ordinary
man, You leave it where it lies and continue your
journey.

332-333

After several minutes’ walk, the tunnel starts to widen,
then opens into a circular chamber Around the edge
of the chamber runs a walkway. On the opposite side
of the room a wide stairway leads down, If you decide
to go back the way you came, turn to 2§9, If you go
down the stairway, turn to 399.

332

You have only a vague idea of the direction you
ought to take, and the sun is already low in the sky
.. you must have lain unconscious for over an hour,
When night falls you are still among the paddy fields.
A range of hills rises out of the plain some kilometres
away and you believe that Yenshu must be near them,
but travelling at night along polder-paths is too danger-
ous. Choosing a spot that is not too muddy, you
prepare for an uncomfortable night out in the open
Roll 2 dice If the result is less than your FEROCITY,
turn to 204. If the result is equal to or greater than
your FEROCITY, turn to 46,

333
Meng shakes his head sadly. The mercenary leader
takes a step closer and raises his sword. If you stand
your ground, turn to 369. If you attack him, turn to
334-335

334
As you step into the temple, your head starts to throb

The world starts to spin and some red-clad priests
stare at you strangely. They surround you and escort
you from the temple to a nearby place of rest. As your
head clears they examine you, burning incense and
chanting. Finally, one of them explains: “You have
been afflicted with a terrible curse. Your body now
plays host to the spirit of a silkworm — a Cangui. The
creature will slowly take you over, until eventually all
you will be able to do is feed its insatiable hunger. We
can exorcize the Cangui, but you must want it to be
removed — and furthermore you may not live for very
long once the spirit is removed: it has been sapping
your strength and contaminating your vital functions.
If you agree to the exorcism, turn to 95. If you do not,
turn to 8.

335
After a week spent scouring the town for leads, you

are all tired. You have heard plenty about the civil

336-337

war, but little that may be of practical use. No one is
sure whether to back the king or the usurpers, but you
know that the mercenaries you seek were probably in
the pay of Bezenvial’s children. Do you:

Head north, away from the fighting? Turn to 269
Head south, towards the fighting? Tum to 14
Look for a job here? Tum to 299
Go back to your village? Tum to 219

336
You wait for several hours before the man you met in
the tavern turns up. He is dressed for travelling and
carries a sword at his side

You march north for several days, into the Golden
Crane Mountains. Your companion talks little, and
you make good time. One day, when you are looking
out over the rice paddies beyond the mountains, you
spot the sea glistening on the horizon. Closer to hand,
a plume of smoke is rising from an encampment; your
companion tells you that this is the camp of the
mercenaries. You approach the tents and the young
rellow hails them. Your heart leaps when, from a
central tent, the hated figure of the mercenary leader,
complete with demon’s head mask, emerges. You've
‘ound the right mercenaries! Your companion intro-
duces you as a new recruit. Turn to 123.

337
roul liquid sprays out of the writhing tongue as it

withdraws into the darkness, and a great gout of
338-340

stinking air blows you clear of the creature’s mouth.
The Cesuoshe’s jaws close and it retreats along the
tunnel. You wipe some of the stinging slime off
yourself, and make your way down the tunnel, back
the way you came Regain 1 point of Luck. Note
down the word ‘green’ on your Adventure Sheet and
turn to 42.

338

The monk ignores you, and you make your way along
the path. As you trudge along, the shadows lengthen
and, before you have gone very far, the darkness of
night envelops you. Clouds mask the sliver of moon
and you can make out the path ahead only with
difficulty. There is a rustling noise from up ahead,
followed by a bestial shriek. If you steel yourself and
carry on, turn to 128. If you run back down the path,
turn to 207,

339
The old man shakes his head sadly as you pick yourself
up and leave, but he doesn’t try to stop you. After
making your way south through the mountains, you find
yourself outside Traole once more. If you ignore it and
head south, turn to gg. If you enter the city, turn to 235.

340
You are quickly expelled from the first inn you come to
when they find you have no money. It seems these city
tolk are more interested in cash than in people. If you
now decide to go to the temple, turn to 258. IF you
prefer to leave the city by the North Gate, turn to 45.

341-343

341
You draw the sword and hold it aloft. Meng claps his
hands admiringly. ‘The sword is woven into your fate,’
he cries. ‘See how it glows.’ Sure enough, the blade
grows bright gold. Then it fades, and with that the
sword evaporates. Its scabbard is nowhere to be seen
either. You follow Meng back up the passage. Do you:

Retur through the double doors? Turn to 230
Go along the tunnel opposite? Turn to 58
Go down the passage to your right? Turn to 158

342
There is widespread panic and in the confusion you
are pinned beneath one of the large wooden cogs of
the strange machinery. One of the Dragon Guards
pulls a lever and the machinery starts up. The cog
drags you in towards its centre; you struggle, but . . .

343
Days pass as you accustom yourself to a never-chang-

ing ritual. Add 1 year to your Age and 2 points to
your STAMINA. Deduct 2 point from your FerociTy.

At the end of a year, the abbot visits you and asks
how you are progressing. If you tell him you are
doing fine, tum to 199. If you tell him you want to
learn the martial arts, turn to 278

344-346

You move swiftly and, by turning easily, you slip out
of the man’s grasp. He sneers at you. ‘You fight like a
monk — you've got some axe to grind.’ He draws a
knife from his robe and closes in.

YOUNG RUFFIAN SKILL 6 STAMINA 5

If you don’t have a weapon, you must reduce your
Attack Strength by 4 points. If you defeat the muffian,
furn to 201.

You set off once more along the polder-paths, heading
for the range of hills. The warmth of the sun on your
face restores some of your spirit, although your
limbs still ache from your uncomfortable night. Tum
to 226.

346
Choose how you wish to attack the mercenary leader.
You may choose an option only if you possess the
appropriate item or have the word already written on
your Adventure Sheet.

With ‘magic’? Turn to 22
With Arena skills (‘arena’)? Tum to 283
With martial arts (‘crane’, ‘wood’ or

‘spider’)? Tum to 154
With a wooden sword, pronged spear

or cudgel? Turn to 66
With the Sacred Sword of Tsui? Turn to 382

With a monk’s staff or knife? Turn to 203
347-348

347
After a short while, you find a dry patch that’s large

enough for all of you, so you settle down for the
night. Next morning you resume your journey, There
is no longer any sign of the leaves you saw last night.

nor of the trees they might have come from. Turn to
368.

348
It is a man, dressed in the red robes of a monk. He
moves with the agility of a spider as he approaches
you. Then, with blinding speed, his hand lashes ou:

and raps you on the head
188,

you black out. Turn to

349-351

349
It doesn’t take you long to find the warriors — word of

their presence has spread through the local community,
and several peasants give you directions. From a
sheltered spot in a copse you survey a small band of
well-armoured warriors as they make their way along
the highway. There are half a dozen of them, escorting
a covered palanquin — a travelling chair. Do you:

Approach them peacefully? Turn to 111

Ambush them and use force (you
must have the golden sword, or
one of the following words written
down on your Adventure Sheet:
‘arena’, ‘crane’, ‘spider’, ‘sword’,
‘wood’)?

Ambush them by magic (you must
have ‘magic’?

Ignore them and carry on to Shoudu?

Turn to 87

Turn to 394
Turn to 289

359

He explains that mercenaries have appeared in the
isles only in the last few years; most are former
militiamen who hire themselves out to officials in
order to deal with the increasing bandit problem, Then
he changes the subject. Turn to 156.

35%
Back at the boarding house, the others are waiting for
you. They look up expectantly as you enter, but your
downcast features stifle their hope. Over the next few
Aours you all discuss the possibilities. Sunai believes
352

that the next step is to travel to Traole, the provincial
capital, and appeal to the authorities there. Quan, who
once had such faith in the magistrate, counsels against
her plan, arguing that it is clear that nothing can be
done, so the correct course of action is to do nothing.
You remember that the monastery of Baochou, which
your father mentioned with his dying breath, is said to
lie to the north, beyond Traole

Once again, the children look to you for a decision.
Will you:

Travel to Traole alone? Turn to 67
Travel to Traole with the others? Turn to 165
Attempt to pick up the trail of the

mercenaries? Turn to 223

352
With a yell of hatred, you charge the armour-clad
figure.

MERCENARY LEADER

If you defeat him, turn to 291

STAMINA 18

SKILL 12

353-355

5
The streets quickly empty of people. You wander in
search of somewhere to stay, but no one is even
prepared to listen to your entreaties, In the end you
have to rest in a dirty side-street.

You are woken by guards kicking you in the ribs.
They drag you off down the street, shouting at you all
the way, You are separated from your friends and
flung into a foul prison cell. Tum to 243

354
Just then a familiar figure emerges from a tent, laden

down with bowls and drinking cups His eyes light on
you; he drops what he is carrying and calls out your
name, But as Hani runs towards you the mercenaries
react. Turn to 206,

355
‘Your goals are clouded by a crimson tide,’ Dry Jade

replies. ‘We cannot help one such as you until you
have purged yourself of your pain, and by then you
may no longer wish for our help.’ Despite his refusal,
Dry Jade offers you a surprisingly hearty meal of
beans and pickled radish, and a bed mat for the night.

Next morning you wake up, refreshed and clear-
headed, Will you:

Change your mind and ask to become
a monk?

Set off back to Traole?

Continue your journey northwards?

Turn to 109
Tum to 249
Turn to 75
356-358

356

You wait for several hours before the man you met in
the tavern turns up, He is dressed for travelling and
carries a sword at his side. You march north for
several days, into the Golden Crane Mountains. Your
companion talks little, and you make good time. One
day you are looking out over the rice paddies beyond
che mountains when you spot the sea, glistening on
the horizon. Nearer to hand, a plume of smoke is
rising from an encampment, and your companion tells
you the camp belongs to the mercenaries. That night
you creep up for a closer look. Sure enough, the
soldiers are wearing black lacquered armour and, when
a tall figure with a glaring death-mask helm emerges
‘rom a tent, you know you have the right mercenaries.
Before you can act, however, your companion starts
yelling. Lanterns are shone in your direction. If you
nave the word ‘silk’ written on your Adventure Sheet,
cum to 60, Otherwise, turn to 160

357

The creature falls with a splash, chopped in two by
your ferocious attack. Though panting with the exer-
aon, you feel exhilarated by the battle. Add 1 point to
your SKILL. The children congratulate you on your
victory, though Sunai points out that it was a mistake
sot to have brought along one of the pronged spears
mat are used to fight off Mudworms while working in
me fields. Turn to 260.

358
“ferzei is just pulling aside a hanging drape when a
359-360

shout of ‘Murder!’ comes from the corridor. Royal
Guards rush into the chamber, their swords drawn
Merzei tums to face you, Turn to 324.

359
The whole tunnel lurches, hurling you to the floor

The slime burns your hands and exposed flesh, but
worse is to come. A huge tongue lashes out from the
depths of the creature, wraps round you and drags
you down, to be digested at leisure, Your adventure
ends messily

360

Over a cup of tea, Master Yao asks why you are
travelling in the mountains. If you tell him that you
are seeking the man who murdered your father, turr
to 39. If you tell him that you're searching after
wisdom, turn to 367. If you tell him you are trying te
rid yourself of the strange curse which is upon you
tum to 184

361-362

361

Eventually you find yourself before a clerk to whom
you describe the attack that took place on your village
He carefully notes down all the details as you speak.
When you finish, he asks if you can provide any
means of identifying the mercenaries. Apart from a
description of their appearance, you can’t. He sucks
in his breath. “You must understand that these are
troubled times and we are very busy,’ he tells you
apologetically. ‘If you can identify the culprits, we
may be able to commence proceedings.’ Dejected, you
leave the tribunal. If you go to an inn to search out
rumours concerning the mercenaries, turn to 36. If you
seek divine assistance at the temple, turn to 258.

362
If you leave the town by the North Gate, turn to 18 If
you make your way south, turn to 166, If you go in
search of employment here, turn to 328
363-365

363
You push open the white door and step through. You
find yourself in the precincts of a temple. The door
clicks shut behind you; Meng has not followed you in.
If you have a white face, turn to 69, If you wear a red
robe, turn to 222.

364
Out in the streets, people are carrying on their lives as
normal, shouting, smiling, shopping. You feel that you
are apart from them. The loss of your parents is
painful, and you realize that you must seek forgetful-
ness in action. If you look for work in Traole, turn to
375. If you set off to the north, turn to 140.

365
Zhonggao warns you about the strictness of the
monks. ‘They will test you to see whether you are
suitable. You must show determination or they will
never allow you in’

Yubei presses a small bag into your hand as you leave.
Inside are 10 Gold Pieces: more money than you've
seen in your life. You thank her for her kindness and
promise your uncle that you will not fail.

Zhonggao instructs you to travel north, back to your
village, and then to continue past Traole until you
reach the Golden Crane Mountains. The monastery is
to be found at the summit of the highest peak. Note
down the word ‘king’ on your Adventure Sheet and
turn to 115

366-368

366
You take the warder’s keys and his cudgel (note them
down on your Equipment List) and leave the cell. If
you make a break for it straight away, turn to §9. If
you inspect the other cells first, turn to 265.

367
‘Wisdom is knowing what you can eat and what you
can’t, says Yao. ‘All this philosophy gets you no-
where. Mind you, there’s a few things I’ve learnt
which may be of use to you...’ Test your Luck. If you
are Unlucky, tum to 137, If you are Lucky, tum to

247

368
The journey to Traole is a long one: you cannot travel
too fast because of the younger children, and you
often have to repay the farmers in whose huts you
shelter by doing a week’s work for them. Add 2 year
to your Age.

Eventually you climb through vine-covered hills that
overlook the city of Traole, provincial capital of this
region. You have heard tell of this place — stories of
expensive houses and wide streets full of garishly clad
merchants, thieves, entertainers and scholars. In Traole,
it is said, you can make a fortune in a day . . . and Jose it
in a minute. If you enter the city, turn to 86. If you
continue past it and towards the mountains which
loom on the horizon, turn to 192
369-370

369
Your enemy swings his sword down upon you. Every-
thing dissolves into blackness. Deduct 4 points from
your FEROCITY. If you have clay bowl written down
on your Adventure Sheet, cross it off. If you have a
white face, turn to 6g. If you have a red robe, turn to

93.

379

Maior frowns. ‘Worth comes from the heart, not from
one’s position in society. Nevertheless f will do what I
can to help you.’ He turns to the fat official and
explains how mercenaries have destroyed your village.
‘Have this loyal citizen escorted to reasonable lodgings,
then deal with the matter of these mercenaries, Pantu.’
The official bows and leads you from the chamber.
Turn to 400,

371-372

371
Now that you are better prepared, you make good time
to Yenshu. If you have the word ‘king’ written on your
Adventure Sheet, turn to 121. Otherwise, turn to 226.

372

The battle for control of the isles still rages to the
south, The God-King’s faction includes a peasant army
led by the rabble-rouser Merzei and the sorcerous
talents of Bezenvial’s son, Maior. Ranged against them
are various disaffected officials and their followers:
bandits, mercenaries and even foul creatures, united by
Bezenvial’s other son, Feior. The fate of the isles still
hangs in the balance, but either way it looks as if one
of Bezenvial’s evil progeny will be on the winning
side. Turn to 156

373-375

373
The figure sidles towards you, moving like an insect.

As fast as a praying mantis, his leg sweeps at you
Instinctively, you stamp down, the way you broke
wood for Flying Turtle, Your opponent screams in
pain, His next approach is more wary.

WHITE-FACED MONK SKILL 8 STAMINA 8

If you defeat the monk, turn to 267. If he defeats you,
tum to 93.

374
You are put to work in the kitchen, chopping up the

monks’ food with a cleaver, Days pass and you wonder
when you are going to be taught these ‘martial arts’
for which the monks are famous. The monastery is a
tranquil place, however, and since you work in the
kitchen you are never short of food. Add 1 year to
your Age and 2 points to your Permanent sTAMINA

At the end of the year, the abbot visits you and asks
how you are progressing, If you tell him you are well
pleased with your lot, turn to 53. If you ask to be
taught the martial arts, turn to 278.

375

You are treated with suspicion by everyone you ap-
proach. You soon learn that there have been attacks
on prominent citizens and officials; a band of revolution-
aries is active, and the Dragon Guards are using bnute
force in their attempts to bring the rebels to justice
Somehow you sense that you share some of the goals
376-378

of the rebels, but it’s hard to find out how to contact
them. If you are to locate the rebels, you must put
your trust in someone. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 24, If you are Unlucky, tum to ro8.

376

Before the red robes have a chance to react, you leap
past them and up the far steps. They give chase, but
you reach the door at the top before they do and you
slam it in their faces, slipping a bar into place. The
chamber you are in is unmistakably part of a temple.
You find your way through a maze of deserted tunnels
before ascending another flight of stairs up to a court-
yard, Here, red-robed monks stare at you guizzically
as you emerge. You bow nonchalantly to them and
make your way over to the gate. Turn to 304.

377
As you approach the city, you begin to take in its size.

It is exormous. Soon you are lost amid its busy streets
Do you:

Try to find the tribunal, so as to
bring your case before the prefect? Tum to 309
Search for an inn in the hope of

tracing the mercenaries? Turn to 36
Go to the temple in search of divine
assistance? Turn to 258

378
Cross the item or items off your Adventure Sheet. The

puzzler looks almost surprised, but he is certainly

379-380

grateful. He hurries off in the direction of the nearest
village. You continue your journey towards Shoudu
Add 1 year to your Age and 1 point to your Perma-
nent STAMINA.

You reckon you must be more than half-way to the
capital when you hear about a band of warriors from
Hachiman; they are said to be roaming the countryside
to the east. If you veer off to encounter the warriors,
turn to 349. If you press on to the capital, Shoudu,
turn to 289,

The magistrate shakes his head and summons forth the
instruments of torture. For hours, your body is wracked
with intense pain, but still you can tell him nothing.
Finally he frees you and cautions you against ever
returning to the city. He has a tattoo etched upon
your face (note this on your Adventure Sheet) and you
are ejected from Traole through the North Gate. Add
2 points to your FEROCITY. If you set off northwards
from here, turn to 8r. If you make your way south,
turn to gg.

380
The path wends its way through a ravine and into a
sheltered valley. It leads past a small hut which huddles
beneath a hulking rocky overhang, If you pause to
inspect the hut, turn to 242. If you push on out of the
valley, turn to 144

ery,

»

3
=
=
’.
Ope
et

‘af,
‘J+ Vis
nee Jae) -

. ee we oe
it Oe J .
s)

381-383

381

Your uncle Zhonggao and his wife Yubei are pleased
to see you. You tell them all about the murder of your
father and your plans to avenge him and rescue your
mother. They feed you and give you a comfortable
mat for the night. Next morning, before you take your
leave, Yubei gives you a pouch containing 5 Gold
Pieces. You thank your relatives and set off through
the North Gate. Turn to 18.

382

The sword leaps into your hands as if it had a will of
its own. Your opponent parries its first blow, his
sword quivering with the shock of the impact. Your
second blow is too fast for him and it slices through
the black scales of his abdominal annour, His sword
swings weakly, but you bnush it aside and hack off his
head, Turn to 305.

383
After passing through the enormous Great Hall you
ignore the many side-passages and make for the doors
at the far end, above which hangs an enormous golden
fist. Slipping through, you find yourself in a corridor,
decorated with the portraits of previous god-kings and
lit by small lanterns. By the way the paint has faded,
some of these paintings must be over a thousand years
old! The corridor leads to a gloomy dark chamber with
a table in the middle. You start to cross the chamber
when a slight figure slips out of the shadows near by
and bars your way. If you are wearing a red robe, turn
to 18x; otherwise, turn to 324,

384

384

You keep your eyes peeled as you make your way
along the road. Once, you spot a cloud of dust
approaching you from ahead, but you hide behind a
polder and the horseman doesn’t catch sight of you.
The bright sun dries your wet clothes and bakes the
mud on to your face. You notice a range of hills rising
out of the plain ahead of you, and you believe you can
make out a tower at their foot. You are nearing your
goal,

A shout from the fields to your right catches your
attention. It is Quan, waving frantically; behind him
are the others. You splash across a field to meet them
and tell them what happened to you. Sunai explains
that they had given you up for lost, assuming that the
mercenary had killed you. Turn to 260.

385-387

385
Your opponent moves closer and fixes your eyes with
his. You stand, paralysed, as his jerkin opens and
slavering insectoid jaws leap from within. Your adven-
ture ends here

386
You make your farewells and Sunai wishes you good
luck in your quest. Before you leave, Bofu gives you a
bag of food (it contains 2 Provisions), You make your
way out through the North Gate and set your sights
on the mountains which rise to the north, Turn to 81

387
Your father smiles. He passes the item back to you in
silence, then his image slowly fades away. Deduct 2
points from your FEROCITY. Tur fo 19.
-

—
eatin

~ye

('*

q
ee
# saw,
Ser

py.

La ey

Bip » Mine
naa |
md

Hoy [Pt thS aE =
of sr = te. ‘ .
- Ve
; M y-e
¥ » >> - wi. i
’ "ph | i
40 SSL hb eof
ia & : te : -
+! Cott Fa . ; Fan
~ lane —"
‘ *b : 5 i
he thee ;
. 7 |
- ad 1
ef
" 1 ot ie, ¥ BY 4. !
J a) n 1 rey
’ y ~ f , 2S
' - - war | f
None 4 PA

Po

'

+ =
ait pede UP *1
- oe] .
rE or
=

f

74

ShWEN de ple

st pes
—_—

A wre =

=a
J
i=

at
»
—mee ee

‘ oF

i" 74
ms = |
—
ved
——
~“~—-
8 prem Beh
—— Pay =

i>
as

leas
De’ ' ——
l=

8
de

~~ Ww

—

ee

a

Sree
a ee

.* ec"
wens s
a Pate bait:
<1 fe)
wer
iE
J.
1—_—

su
=f
2
,

tm
;

ren
tt

5 te

as See

Lr % »
ite ta!

Precis pan
» Yj

|
“
=>
=te4

—
—
a
is
i=} 7
re

"7 —
= a)
ee a et rae

~~

_ a =
Son ra -5 otnnen
<A
C=
sa

o2
- al

388-390

388

The doors to the monastery burst open and five
monks rush out, Each of them is carrying a golden
sword and they point them at you. In unison they
chant: ‘Pao-Yeh-Pao-Lo-Mi.’ Golden shafts stream from
the swords and stab agonizingly at you, Deduct 2
points from your Temporary sTAMINA. The monks
advance, forcing you down the path. Finally you have
no option but to turn and run. The slope is very steep,
though, and you find you can’t stop yourself. Finally,
your legs give way, you trip over a rock, roll several
metres down the slope, then black out.

When you wake up, you are staring into the narrowed
eyes of an old man. ‘A curse is upon you,’ he says. 7
can lift it if you wish.’ Do you:

Tell him you want the curse lifted? Turn to 179
Attack him? Turn to 279
Refuse his offer and leave? Turn to 339

389
The other children, especially Sunai, are shocked that
you attempted to go against the authorities by trying
to escape and they urge you to give yourself up. If
you free them, turn to 125. If you give yourself up,
turn to 47. If you try to escape on your own, burn to

59-

390
The sun is shining brightly overhead as you stride
confidently into the camp. Sure enough, these are the
barbarians who destroyed the tranquillity of your
391-393

village life. If your Age is 15 or over, turn to 220. If
your Age if less than 15, turn to 15

391
You thank your uncle and aunt for their help. Before
you leave, Yubei presses a small pouch into your
hands. ‘If you are to succeed, you will need this. May
Arn bless your path,’ she says, In the bag are 10 Gold
Pieces, more money than you've seen in your life.
Note them down on your Adventure Sheet.

You promise Zhonggao and Yubei that you will not
fail them, and you stride out into the streets of
Yenshu, If you have the word ‘art’ on your Adventure
Sheel, turn to 25. Otherwise, turn to 176.

392
A figure, dressed in red robes, appears at the top of
the stairs. Black eyes peer down at you from a deathly
pale face. The figure begins to descend the steps, If
you flee, tum to 21g. If you wait to see what is going
to happen, turn to go.

393
Maior smiles. He reaches out towards the demon

mask. A scintillating globe surrounds the man’s head,
then Maior grasps the mask and tosses it aside, For a
moment it hisses and spits as if alive, then flares up
and bums to ashes. You gaze upon the face of the
mercenary, a face curiously similar to yours. He looks
confused — he can remember nothing of the events of
the last few years.

394

With Maior, you rejoin your mother, then retum to
the capital. On the way you tell him of Keiko’s trade
mission. Thanks to the treacherous adviser, Pantu, he
had heard nothing of it, Back in the capital, Maior sets
about repairing some of the wrongs caused by the
serpent creature’s deceptions. Merzei is reinstated as
the Grand Councillor, with special responsibilities for
controlling and curbing the excesses of the Dragon
Guards — using them to disband by force any merce-
nary bands still roaming the countryside. You are
given the honorary title ‘Eyes and Ears of the God-
King’. Your duty is to travel the land, ensuring that
justice always prevails over corruption. You carry the
Sacred Sword of Tsui to ensure that you can fight for
a just cause. Maior gives you a golden gauntlet with
which to wield it and as a symbol of the God-King’s
power. Before you leave the capital, you introduce
Ambassador Keiko to the king. They are soon deep in
discussions, and you begin to wonder whether there
may soon be more than just a trade bond between
the nations. From your personal tragedy you have
forged a new chance for the peoples of the isles. You
can hold your head up high at last and call yourself
heroic.

394

You begin to chant, preparing a spell which will charm
the samurai and place them in your power. By the
time the warriors are approaching along the highway,
your spell is ready. You step out in front of them and
gesture at each in turn, all the time keeping up the
chant, They try to draw their swords but, one by one,
395-396

they fall under your control. You approach the litter to
find out what it is the samurai are guarding. From it
peers a beautiful white face. On seeing you it gasps,
then lets out a cry — a pure note which reverberates
right through your skull! Beside you, the samurai stir
Tum to 323.

395

You make your way down the lower slopes of the
mountain to a small village. This shows all the signs of
having been visited by the mercenaries: several of the
huts are burnt out, and the villagers look haggard and
frightened. Sure enough, when you ask them, they Fell
you that the mercenaries were here, but that they rode
off to the south-east. Your path obviously lies to the
south — but you are on foot, while the mercenaries
ride. A wheeling seagull in the sky above your head
gives you an idea — you should travel north to the sea
and take a ship southward along the coast. Turn to
142.

396

You begin to chant as loudly as you dare, smearing
your fingertips with earth and your eyelids with blood
Soon a cloud begins to billow up from the ground
round the mercenaries and the farmers. You move into
it, clearly able to see the shapes of the barbarians as
they stagger around. One of them stumbles forward,
close to you, but you touch him lightly on the shoulder
and the earth-power sends him sprawling. You free the
farmers from their bonds and lead them out of the
camp. Turn to 89.

397-399

397

‘You are correct, in so far as:any question has an
answer,’ he replies. ‘Follow me.’ He tums and makes

his way along the left-hand path

As night falls, you ascend the mountain, finally reach-
ing what seems to be a huge gateway into the moun-
tainside. Your escort indicates a narrow gap between
the colossal doors. ‘Enter!’ he says. If you have the
word ‘silk’ written on your Adventure Sheet, turn to 3
Otherwise, turn to 241.

398

You learn that the man you have entranced is Master
Yao, a reclusive sorcerer of these parts. He knows
nothing of politics, preferring to spend his time perfect-
ing his magical arts. You have managed to mesmerize
him through the spirit of the Cangui which inhabits
your body. Will you:

Free Master Yao from the

enchantment? Turn to 74
Force him to teach you magic? Turn to 114
Force him to free you of the Cangui?) = Turn to 191
Leave him where he is and proceed? Turn to 286

399
You start down the steps. Visibility is limited: the
tunnel is lit only by a faint luminescence from the
walls. Your body feels light and your mood is euphoric.
After a while the steps reach a platform, a small square
chamber. Out of the shadows emerges an old man, his

400

face familiar but not identifiable. 1 am Meng Zhidao. |
will guide you through these tunnels. In everything
there is a pattern, and you will understand only if you
observe the pattern. Balance, balance and progress —
concentrate on these. Now follow me.’ He turns and
starts to descend another flight of steps. As if in a
dream, you follow. At the bottom of the stairs another
tunnel leads off into the gloom. Without hesitation
you follow Meng Zhidao along it. You emerge into a
foul-smelling cavern, but you have no time to take in
its contents before you become aware of another
figure, which has just emerged from a parallel tunnel
to your right. If you have a red robe, turn to 27. If
you have a white face, turn to 177. Otherwise, tum to
z98.

400

He leads you through the labyrinthine corridors of the
palace until you come to an area of dusty stonework.
He gestures you through a doorway, then tugs a
lever. The floor gives way; you are plunged into a
deep, bone-filled pit, Pantu cackles: an unnerving,
high-pitched sound. There is no way out of the pit;
you are trapped. Your adventure is over

Also in Puffirs

FIGHTING FANTASY
The Introductory Role-playing Game

Steve Jackson

Thrilling adventures of sword and sorcery come to life in the
Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks, where the reader is the hero, dicing
with death and demons in search of villains, treasure or freedom.
Now YOU can create your own Fighting Fantasy adventures and
send your friends off on dangerous missions! In this clearly written
handbook there are hints on devising combats, monsters to use,
tricks and tactics, as well as two mini-adventures

THE RIDDLING REAVER
Steve Jackson

Four Fighting, Fantasy episodes to be played as separate adven-
tures or as stages in an epic adventure. The Riddling Reaver is a
rival worthy of the most daring adventurers His mand is in-
sctutable — but there is no doubt about the chaos he plans to
unleash on the world He must be stopped, despite the hazards of
the task!

A follow-up to Fighting Fantasy: The Introductory Role-playing
Came, it contains imstructions and scenarios so that you can
conjure up adventures for your friends and send them on their
most dangerous and puzzling mission yet

OUT OF THE PIT
Fighting Fantasy Monsters

Steve Jackson and lan Livingstone

From the darkest comers, from the deepest pools and from the
dungeons thought only to exist in nightmares come the Fighting
Fantasy monsters — the downfall of many a brave warrior. Two
hundred and fifty of these loathsome creatures from the wild and
dangerous worlds of Fighting Fantasy are collected here — some
are old adversaries, many you have yet to meet — each of them
described in minute detail, An indispensable guide for Fighting
Fantasy adventurers!

&

TITAN
The Fighting Fantasy World

Steve Jackson and Jan Livingstone
edifed by Marc Gascoigne

You met the monsters in Out of The Pit — now meet the rest of the
Fighting Fantasy world! No adventurer should be without this
essential guide It contains everything you need to know, cover-
ing the turbulent history of the world, from its creation and early
civilizations ~ through the devastating War of the Wizards — to
the present-day wilderness and anarchy where the delicate balance
between Good and Chaos could at any moment be overturned.

THE TROLLTOOTH WARS
Steve Jackson

It started with an ambush. When Balthus Dire’s blood-lusting Hill
Goblins mount their raid on the Strongarm caravan, little do they
realize what dramatic consequences their actions will have. For
that caravan carries Cunnelwort, a mystical herb from Eastern
Allansia, destined for none other than the evil sorceror, Zharradan
Marr! War — between two forces well-matched for evil — is soon
ta ensue ,. Will Balthus Dire’s chaotics or Zharradan Marr's un-
dead prove victorious? The answer is here, in the first Fighting
Fantasy novel.

DEMONSTEALER
Marc Gascoigne

It started with a burglary. Borne aloft on the back of an immense
bat, a sinister thief breaks into the tower of the sorcerer Yaztromo
Guided by long-dead voices, he manages to make off with an
ancient scroll whose secrets could spell doom and destruction for

all Allansia!

Chadda Darkmane is soon on the trail of the thief. But as the quest
grows ever longer, his nagging doubts about the power of sorcery
turn into nightmares, The trail leads far beyond northern Allansia,
to the Pirate Coast and the twisting alleyways of Rimon, where
Darkmane’s nightmares become flesh! For the thief has used the
ancient scro!] to summon others to help him in his sorcerous task,
Demons who are not bound by the constraints of earthly forms —
who feast on the human spirit

A few brave companions accompany Darkmane, but will they be
enough — and in time — to stop the thief from unlocking the final
secret of Yaztromo’s scroll? Demtonstealer, the second Fighting
Fantasy novel in a series that began with The Trolltooth Wars,
helds all the answers
Advanced Fighting Fantasy

DUNGEONEER
Marc Gascoigne and Pete Tamlyn

Now you and your friends can create your own fantasy movies!
Imagine that you are the director and your friends are the cast of
heroes. Will you send them to battle with the evil wizard or
recover the Dragons’ hoard? The choice is yours, and Dungeoneer
makes the exciting world of fantasy role-playing accessible in a
thoroughly user-friendly manner

*“ BLACKSAND!
Mare Gascoigne and Pete Tamlyn

Sprawling like the corpse of some giant creature, Port Blacksand 1s
a festering den of pirates and brigands Unforeseen dangers lurk
around every street corner and in every dark alleyway. Devious
plots and crimes are hatched in every tavern Thieves and assas-
sins slip through the shadows. Ancient mysteries lurk in the cellars
and sewers But the infamous City of Thieves is also home to
excitement and adventure beyond compare!

The second volume in the Advanced Fighting Fantasy series
which started with Dungeoneer.
