—#

FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS ag
= Over 13 million copies sold worldwide! >

—_ — = Sal

|
|

‘The war between the kingdoms is over, but there ts ie

still much so be done, The evil generals who went to jor he i VI NGSTONE

ground in the Badlands heyond Galluntaria have PRESENT Saree
been tracked down by bounty huncets. The feared eae ,

‘Tnguisiter General, Karam Gruul, has cluded capture
for so King, however, that many believe him dead,

“You alone know different, Gruul is very much alive, S

and plotting to rekindle the flames of War once more. ;

YOU must use your skills os a bounty hunter to 3)

tack him down and bring him, finally, to justice, =

| _- Partstory, part gamé, thisisabook in which YOU are =F
the hero! Two dice; a pencil and an eraser are all you \ “fi

need YOU decide which roures to take, whiel)
dangers to risk and which foes to fight, Dare YOU
face the terrors that await you in the Badlands!

' Covar Htistrasion by Terry Qakew |

tonhnw u

ll

Antenne

Puffin Books

MOONRUNNER

In the Old World, the War of the Four Kingdoms is over, but
there is still much to be done. Some of the evil generals and
their minions escaped and have gone to ground in the wilderness
beyond Gallantaria, the area known as the Badlands. One above
all has eluded all efforts to track him down and bring him to
justice Karam Gruul, the terrifying Inquisitor General, was
thought dead However, this was merely a ruse to allow him to
escape,

Now Gruul has reappeared and is hiding out somewhere in the
lawless city of Blackhaven Someone is needed to find his
whereabouts and bring him to justice... someone adept at more
than just swordplay, someone with an inquisitive mind and a

nose for danger. In short, a Bounty Hunter - a Bounty Hunter
like YOU.

The perils which await you are many and deadly; this time, even
your skills may mot overcome them. Gnul is evil beyond
comprehension, and he wiil not give up without a fight to the
death, Is your war really over — or has it only just begun?

Two dice, a pencil] and an eraser are all you need to embark
upon your most challenging adventure yet, which comes com-
plete with its own elaborate combat system and a score sheet to
record your progress

Many spine-chilling dangers lie ahead and your success is by no
means certain. Horrifying enemies are ranged against you and
it's up to YOU to decide which route to follow, which dangers
to risk and which foes to fight.

Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks

1 THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP
MOUNTAIN
2 TIE CITADEL O1 CHAOS
3. [HE FOREST OF DOOM
4 STARSHIP TRAVELLER
5 CITY OF THIEVES
& DVATHTRAP DUNGEON
7 ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING
& SCORPION SWAMP
9 CAVERNS OF TLEIE SNOW WITCH
10 LIOUSE OF HELL
11 TALISMAN OF DEATH
12_SPACE ASSASSIN
15 (REEWAY FIGHTER
14 TEMPLE OF TERROR
15 TLIE RINGS OF KETHER
16 SEAS OF BLOOD
17 APPOINTMENT WITLIF.E A R
18 REBEL PLANET
19 DEMONS OF TIIE DEEP
2) SWORD OF THE SAMURAL
21 TRIAL OF Cl LAMPIONS
2 ROBOT COMMANDO
23: MASKS OF MAYHEM
24 CREATURE OF IIAVOC
23 BENBATEI NIGHTMARE CASTLE
26 CRYPT OF THE SORCERER
27. STAR STRIDER
24 PHANTOMS OF FEAR
29 MIDNIGHT ROGUE
30 CILASMS OF MALICE

Sleve Jackson's SORCERY!
I THR SELAMUTANTI HILLS
2 KHARE - Cl] YPORT OF TRAPS

31 BATTLEBLADE WARRIOR

32 SLAVES OF THE ABYSS

33 SKY LORD

34 STEALER OF SOULS

35 DAGGERS OF DARKNESS

36 ARMIES OF DEATH

37. PORTAL OF EVIL

38 VAULT OF TLIE VAMPIRE

39 FANGS OF FURY

40 DEAD OF NIGIIT

47. MASTER OF CHAOS

42 BLACK VEIN PROPHECY

43 TH) KEEP OF THE LIC]I-LORD

4d LEGEND OF THE SHADOW
WARRIORS

45 SPECTRAL STALKERS

46 TOWER OF DESTRUCTION

47 THE CRIMSON TIDE

48 MOONRUNNER

49 SIEGE OF SARDATII

50 RETURN TO FIRETOP MOLUNTALN

51 PLAGUE OF THE UNDEAD

52 NIGHT DRAGON

53 SPELLBREAKER

3 THE SEVEN SERPENTS
4 THE CROWN OF KINGS

FIGHTING FANTASY - The Introductory Role-Playing Game
THE RIDDLING REAVER - Four Thrilling Adventires

Fighting Fantasy Novels
THE TROLLTOOTH WARS
DEMONSTEALER
SHADOWMASTER

The Advanced Fighling Fanlasy System
OUT OF THE PI't - Fightng Fantasy Monsters

TITAN - The Fighting Fantasy World

DUNGEONEER - An Introduction to the World of Role-Playing Games

Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone
present

MOONRUNNER

by Stephen Hand

Illustrated by Martin McKenna

Puffin Books
For Peter Cushing. whose dramalic exploils convinced one
young boy thal vampires, msane monsters and crumbling
Gothic ruins reaily do exist if you want them to

PUFFIN ROOKS

Published by the Penguin Group
Penguin Books Lud, 27 Wrights Lane, London W8 5TZ, England
Penguin Books USA Inc , 375 Hudson Street, New York, New York 10014, USA
Penguin Books Ausiralia Lid, Ringwood. Victoria, Australia
Penguin Books Canada Lid, 10 Alcorn Avenue, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M4¥ 3B2
Penguin Books (NZ) Lid. 182--190 Wairau Road, Auckland 10, New Zealand

Penguin Books Lid, Registered Offices: Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England

First published 1992
3379108 64

Concept copyright (€) Steve Jackson and Jan Livingstone, |992
Text copyright © Stephen Hand 1992
Illustrations copyright @ Marlin McKenna, 1992
Map copyright © Leo Harias, 1992
All nights reserved

The moral right of the author has been asserted

Printed in England by Clays Lid, SL Ives ple
Filmsei in Menophoto Palatino

Except in the United States of America, Lhis book 15 sold subject
Lo the condition that it shali not. by way of trade or otherwise, be Ient,
re-sold, hired oul, or othensise circulaied without the publisher's
priot consent in any form of binding or cover other than thatin
which id 1s published and withoul a similar condtiion including this
condition being imposed on the subsequenl purchaser

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION
7

ADVENTURE SHEET
18-19

WELCOME TO THE BADLANDS
21

MOONRUNNER
ao
| BLACKHAVEN |i

| eS ees |

INTRODUCTION

Exploring the Lacynthian Caves, striking beyond Or-
chelm enemy-lines, rediscovering the Forgotten
Temple of Daemos, defying the monstrous Vampire
Lords of Vannan — most adventurers would be proud
to have achieved but:one of these feats, but you have
done them all and many more besides. What is more,
all these death-defying exploits were accomplished as
part of your apprenticeship! For you have joined the
few whose very lives are a byword for danger: you
have become a Bounty Hunter.

As a Bounty Hunter, you are a grim, experienced and
fearless survivor who lives off the rewards offered by
the civilized nations of the Old World for the capture
of wanted criminals, Unlike most of your sort, who are
ruthless, money-gmubbing scum, you don’t waste your
time arresting petty thieves, however. You strive for
the return of justice to the Old World: you Jook to
hunt down the handful of arch-villains who you know
are behind the many foul wars and cruel mishaps that
have recently threatened to bring your native land of
Gallantaria to her knees, You will not rest until you
have uncovered and arrested each and every one of
these evil fiends

Before embarking on your latest and most hazardous
mission, you must work out your own strengths and
weaknesses; use the Adventure Sheet on pages 18-19

7

to record your attribute scores, as well as all the other
details of your adventure. Since you are unlikely to
succeed at the first attempt, it would be sensible to
make copies of the Adventure Sheet for later forays into
this adventure. As well as a copy of the Adventure
Sheet, you will also need two dice, a pencil and an
eraser.

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one die. Add 6 to the number rolled and enter the
total in the sxitz box on the Adventure Sheet.

Roll two dice. Add 12 to the number rolled and enter
the total in the sTAMINA box.

Roll one die, add 6 and enter the total in the tuck
box.

These are the Initial scores for your three main at-
tributes, For reasons that will be explained below, all
these scores will change during the adventure. You
must keep an accurate record of them, and for this
reason you are advised to write small in the boxes or
to keep an eraser handy. But never rub out your Initial
scores, Although you may be awarded additional sx11t,
STAMINA and Luck points, their totals may never
exceed their Initial scores, except on some very rare
occasions when the text specifically tells you so.

Your SKILL score reflects your expertise in combat,
your dexterity and your agility. Your sTAMINA score
reflects how healthy and physically fit you are. Your

8

LUCK score indicates how lucky you are. In all these
cases, the higher your score, the better!

Battles

During your adventure you will often encounter hostile
creatures which will attack you; on other occasions,
you yourself may choose to draw your sward agains?
an enemy you chance across, In some situations you
may be given a speciat option allowing you to deal
with the encounter in an unusual manner; but in mast
eases you will have to resolve battles as described
elow

You will be told your opponent's skILL and STAMINA
scores in the paragraph where you first meet him, her
or it; enter these details in the first vacant Encounter
Box on your Adventure Sheet. You should also make a
note of any special abilities or instructions which are
unique to that particular opponent. Then follow this
sequence:

i. Roll both dice for your opponent. Add its sKrLL
score to the total rolled, to find its Attack Strength.

2. Roll both dice for yourself, then add your current
SKILL score to find your Attack Strength.

3. If your Attack Strength is higher than your oppo-
nent’s, you have wounded it: proceed to step 4. If
your opponent's Attack Strength is higher than
yours, it has wounded you: proceed to step 5. If
both Attack Strength totals are the same. you have
avoided or partied each other's blows: start a new
Attack Round from Step 1, above.

—_
4. You have wounded your opponent: subtract 2
points from its sTAMINA score. You may use LUCK
here to do additional damage to it (see below),
Now proceed to step 6.

5. Your opponent has wounded you: subtract 2 points
from your STAMINA score. You may use LUCK here
to minimize the amount of sTAMINA lost (see
below).

6. Begin the next Attack Round, starting again at step
1. This sequence continues until the sTAMINA score
of either you or your opponent reaches zero, which
means death. If your opponent dies, you are free to
continue with your adventure. If you die, your
quest has ended and you must start the adventure
all over again by rolling the dice to create a new
character.

Fighting More Than One Opponent

In some situations you may find yourself facing more
than one enemy. Sometimes you will treat them as a
single opponent; at other times you will be able to
fight each in turn; and sometimes you will have to
fight them all at the same time! If they are treated as a
single opponent, the combat is resolved normally.
When you are instructed to fight several creatures one
at a time, the combat is again resolved normally —
except that, once you defeat one opponent, the next
steps forward to fight you!

When you find yourself under attack from more than
one adversary at the same time, each will make a

to

separate attack on you in the course of each Attack
Round, but you cin choose which one to fight (unless
you have the Combat Special Skill - see Special
Skills. below}. Attack your chosen target as in a norma!
dattle, Against any additional opponents you roll for
the Attack Strength of yourself and each opponent in
the normal way, If your Attack Strength is greater than
your adversary’s, however, in this instance you will not
inflict a wound: you can regard it as having parried an
incoming blow, if your Attack Strength is lower than
your enemy's, you will be wounded in the normal way.

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either in
pattle or when you find yourself in another situation
when you could be either Lucky or Unlucky (such
eventualities are detailed in the paragraphs themselves),
you may use LucK to make the outcome more favour-
able. But beware! Using Luck is a risky business and, if
you are Unlucky, the results could be disastrous.

The procedure, called Testing your Luck, works in the
‘ollowing way: roll two dice. If the number rolled is
equal to or less than your current LUCK score, you
nave been Lucky and the result will be in your favour.
i? the number rolled is higher than your current cuck
score, you have been Unlucky and will be penalized.

=ach time you Test your Luck, you must subtract 1

Ii
point from your current LucK score. Thus you will
soon come to realize that, the more you rely on your
Luck, the more risky this procedure will become,

Using Luck in Battles

In certain paragraphs you will be told to Test your
Luck, and you will then find out the consequences of
being Lucky or Unlucky. However, in battles, you
always have the option of using your Luck, either to
inflict greater damage on an opponent you have just
wounded or ta minimize the effects of a wound you
have just received

If you have just wounded an opponent, you may Test
your Luck as described above. [f you are Lucky, you
have inflicted a severe wound; deduct 2 extra points
from your opponent’s sTAMINA score. If you are
Unlucky, however, your blow merely scratches your
opponent; deduct only 1 point from your opponent's
STAMINA (i.e., instead of inflicting the normal 2 points
of damage, you may now score only 1).

Whenever you yourself are wounded in combat, you
may Test your Luck to try to minimize the wound. If
you are Lucky, your opponent's blow only grazes you;
deduct only 1 point from your sTAMINA, If you are
Unlucky, your wound is a serious one and you must
deduct 1 extra STAMINA point {ie., deduct a total of 3
points from your Own STAMINA).

Remember: you must subtract 1 point from your LUCK
score each time you Test your Luck, whether you are
successful or not

Iz

More About Your Attributes
Skill

Your SKILL score will not change much during the
course of your adventure. Occasionally a paragraph
may give instructions to increase or decrease your
SKILL score, but it may not exceed its Initial value
unless you are specifically instructed to the contrary. If
you ever have to fight a battle with your bare hands
‘that is to say, you do not have a weapon to fight
with), you must temporarily subtract 1 from your
SKILL score for the duration of the combat.

At various times during your adventure you will be
told to Test your Skill. The procedure for this is exactly
the same as that for Testing your Luck. Roll two dice: if
the number rolled is equal to or less than your current
SKILL score, you have succeeded in your test and the
result will go in your favour; if the number rolled is
higher than your current SKILL score, you have failed
the test and will have to suffer the consequences.
However, unlike Testing your Luck, do not subtract 1
point from your skiLL each time you are told to Test
vour Skill,

Stamina
Your STAMINA score will change a lot during your
adventure. It will drop as a result of wounds gained
through combat, or by falling foul of traps and pitfalls,
and it will also drop after you perform any particularly
arduous task. If your STAMINA score ever falls to zero,
vou have been killed and must start again. Brave

13

7 , ee
adventurers who wish to pursue their quest must roll
up a new character and start all over again.

You can restore lost sTAMINA by eating meals, known
as Provisions. You start the game with Provisions
equivalent to 5 meals, and you will be given the
opportunity to obtain more during your adventure.
You must keep track of how many meals’ worth of
Provisions you have left by filling in the details in the
Provisions box of your Adventure Sheet. Each time
you eat a meal you may restore up to 4 points of
STAMINA, but you must remember to deduct 1 meal
from your Provisions box. You may stop and eat
Provisions at any time except when you are engaged
in a battle.

Luck

Additions to your LUCK score may be awarded in the
adventure when you have been particularly lucky or
created your own luck by some action. Details are
given, where appropriate, in the paragraphs of the
book. Remember that, as with sktLt and sTAMINA,
your LUCK score may never exceed its Initial value —
unless you are specifically told that it can.

Special Skills

Over the years, you have acquired a number of Special
Skills which have served you time and again on

your many bounty hunting ventures. Choose four.

from the following list and mark them in the Special
Skills box on your Adventure Sheet. The Special Skills
are:

14

Acrobahs

Climb

Combat

Disguise

You have a remarkable sense of
balance, coupled with the ability
to attempt a variety of physical
feats which most people would find
impossible.

You are able to climb with ease up
almost any surface, even those which
offer you only the slightest of hand-
holds.

You are a master in the art of man-
to-man combat, If ever you are told
to fight more than one opponent at
the same time, you may strike back at
each one of them, wounding all oppo-
nents whose Attack Strength is lower
than yours.

This skill calls for fast thinking, a
modicum of acting ability, and the gift
of being able to keep a straight face
while telling the most outrageous lies.
If it is possible for you to get what
you want out of a situation through
words alone, you'll manage it.

You have the talent to alter your
appearance so radically that you may
seek to pass almost anywhere unno-
ticed. Obviously, the longer you spend
on preparing your disguise and the
more materials you have to hand, the
more effective your disguise will be;
you should remember, however, that
disguises mask only your appearance.

15
Lock Picking

Sleight of Hand

Sneak

Tracking

10

There’s hardly a lock made that can
keep you out — and all you need to
open one is the small hooked piece of
metal which you carry, concealed on
your person, at all times,

Your nimble fingers are adept in the
art of trickery, and your joints can be
popped at the mere flexing of a
tendon. You can make small objects
seem to appear and disappear before
a person’s very eyes; you can plant
items on that person or simply pick
that person’s pockets. Another in-
valuable aspect of this skill lies in
using it to extricate yourself from
bonds or to slip through the thinnest
of gaps.

If you so choose, you can hide from
others or use your incredibly light
tread to get past them, unheard and
unseen. Though happiest when there
are plenty of hiding places around or
during the hours of darkness, you can
always make the best use of whatever
cover is available when trying to
evade detection.

Equally as good in the city as in the
wilds, you are able to follow human-
oid or beast anywhere — provided
your prey has left a trail for you to
follow. How well you are able to
pick up the trail depends on where

eee

the trail is, what it is, and how
old it is. All the same, you have
often used this skill to spectacular
effect.

At various times in your adventure, you will be asked
whether or not you possess a certain Special Skill
including Combat). If you do, you will be given the
option to use it, and you should then follow the
appropriate instructions, Sometimes you may find that
a paragraph lists more than one Special Skill; even if
vou have all the skills listed, you may use only one of
them.

Equipment

Used to travelling light, you set out on your mission
with a minimum of equipment — though you will
almost certainly find other useful items during the
quest. You carry a sword of finest steel and wear
simple, but durable, clothing; not for you the cumber-
some leather armour so beloved of arnateurs! Your
concealed purse holds some Gold Pieces — to find out
now many, roll two dice and add 12 to the total
ralled. Finally, you have a backpack which you can use
10 carry any items you come across and may want to
xeep (enter them, along with your sword, in the
=quipment box of your Adventure Sheet). Any Gold
Pieces you acquire are kept in your purse and should
se entered in the Gold Pieces box of your Adventure
Set,

17
{ ADVENTURE SHEET <scounree noxes

Froviscns | feoumrmces

TNT

WELCOME TO THE BADLANDS

In response to an urgent message, it has taken you just
three days to reach the delta where the lands of
Gallantaria, Brice and Mauristatia meet — three days to
reach that lawless and unruly part of Gallantaria com-
monly known as the Badlands. At the heart of this
notorious region, standing on the Border River, is the
sprawling city of Blackhaven, a place so dangerous
that the City Guards have to go around in groups of
ten. Yet it is to this city’s solitary, beleaguered guard
post that you have been summoned.

It is the dead of night, and no one sees you as you slip
in through a secret door in a side wall of the small
stone keep. Inside, you are met by Guard Marshal
Bennet, who quietly leads you up a spiral staircase and
into his candle-lit room. There, the aged Marshal
wastes no time in explaining why you have been
summoned: The War of the Four Kingdoms — Gal-
lantaria, Femphrey, Brice and the Northlands — almost
tore the Old World apart, but the four sides tumed
away from the abyss and made a fragile peace which
has lasted up to the present day. Yet this peace is
constantly being eroded by the many agents of Chaos
who seek to aggravate old rivalries. The Old World
can never know tmie peace until its barbaric past is
finally laid to rest.’ He pauses to sit down at his desk,
then adds, ‘High in the Brician ranks was Karam Gruul
— the Inquisitor General.’

21
You cannot help but shudder in fear and loathing at
the mere mention of this name

‘Gruul,’ Bennet continues, ‘was swift in urging Brice to
war, and his was the guiding intellect and the dark
magics which lay behind many of Brice’s military
successes. It was he who prepared the murderous fire-
traps along Brice’s borders; he who had thousands of
war prisoners dragged, screaming, into his Tower of
Inquisition, where horrific deeds were perpetrated; he
who tortured and killed peaceful Bricians with his
“traitor-hunts”; he who assassinated his fellow generals
when they spoke out against him; and, finally, it was
he who remained unseen and unknown while his men
died on foreign soil. Not for nothing was Gruul
nicknamed “the Hand of Death”.

‘When peace finally came, a condition of the armistice
was that Gruul should be made to stand trial for his
crimes against humanity. But the warmongering Brician
king claimed that Gruul had died in the Last Battle and
that his body was but one of thousands ploughed
under the earth. Moreover, the king denied any know-
ledge of Gruul's atrocities and he ordered that all
mention of Gruul be erased from his country’s histories
and monuments. Most believed that Gruul — whose
face was known to so very few — had not died; and so
began the Great Manhunt. But no sign of Gruul was
found; it was as if he had never existed. His darned
Tower of Inquisition was razed to the ground, but the
villain himself escaped us. Since then, a constant vigil
has been maintained for signs of Gruul's inevitable
return. And now, at the cost of many gallant lives, we

22

>ave at last obtained news as to his whereabouts!

Gruul is in Blackhaven, and his presence here can only
mean that he is planning something terrible, some plot
-mportant enough to make him risk exposure after
years of hiding. However, we don’t know exactly
where he is, or in what guise; only that he is here. We
care not use the City Guards or any other band of
men to fetch him; Gruul would soon learn of their
coming and would go into hiding once more. But if
someone worked alone — someone with stealth, cun-
sing and resourcefulness the equal of Gruul's, someone
who could move efficiently and quietly through the
ceadly streets of Blackhaven — then we just might
catch him. You are that someone. Find Gmuul for us
and take him to face justice at the High Court in Royal
Lendle, capital of Gallantaria. If you do, the reward . , .’

‘rou have been listening to Bennet’s words with rising
Dassion, and now you feel compelled to interrupt:
Save your gold! For years I have been looking for
seven arch-fiends in the service of Chaos; six are now
cehind bars; but Gruul, the seventh and most evil, has
2iways eluded me. No, seeing Gruul made to account
‘or his wrongdoings will be reward enough. And... I
save a personal debt to settle!’

Tum to paragraph 1.

43
I
Bennet sighs with relief and thanks you before continu-
ing: “There are rumours that Blackhaven is in the grip
of a secret society called the Cabal of the Werewolf.
All we know about this organization is that its mem-
bers are said to bear “the Werewolf’s Mark”, and that
it is supposed to have connections with a powerful
clique of Brician nobles who are hell-bent on starting a
second War of the Four Kingdoms. If this is fre, then
Karam Gruul must have dealings with the Cabal.
Word has reached me that an inmate of Craven
Asylum, Matra Ouspenskaya, is claiming that she was
a member — but is now a victim — of the Cabal, This
could be the break we seek; you must go and question
her to find out if there is any truth in her wild ravings.
Next, it is said that Cabal members meet in a docklands
tavern, the Last Octopus, which you should also investi-
gate. Finally, it might be worth your while to visit
Silas Entador, a useful wretch who is one of our paid
informers and who lives in Malt Lane, If Gruul has
made contact with this Cabal — or, indeed, with any
part of Blackhaven’s underworld — then Entador will
know about it.’

The Marshal stands up behind his desk. ‘Though
mystic shields hide our walls from serying eyes, I fear
that one of my own men may be a traitor, so only I
and the Ruling Council in Royal Lendle, to whom
Gruul must be taken, know of your mission. In my
drawer I have some gold to cover your expenses, and
a Letter of Introduction to Craven Asy—

A stifled cry escapes the old man’s lips as he falls

2-3

forward on to the desk, a dagger protruding from his
back! The knife can onty have been thrown through
the tall, open window behind Bennet’s chair, a window
which is twelve metres above the ground, Will you
try to help Bennet (turn to 12), go round the desk to
his drawer so that you may take the gold and the
letter (turn to 33), or rush over to the window (turn to
80)?

2

The addle-brained beggar snatches the coin from your
hand (cross the Gold Piece off your Adventure Sheet),
and babbles in gratitude: “Yeah, I seen ‘em, I did A
boat wiv lots o’ people. Orcs and pointy-ears, unloadin’
fings. A tall, fin bloke in a cloff mask told ‘em what to
do. Said somefink about the river bein’ ‘is ‘ighway, and
about ‘ow the Bents ‘ave ‘ired a Bounty ‘unter. ‘E
laughs. Says the ‘unter’s been taken care of. Then ’e
drops a bottle an’ gets upset. They searched, but no
use ‘cause it fell near me an’ | took it. Ignored me, they
did. Fink I’m stupid, but I got their bottle, didn’t I?
You can ‘ave it fer five shinies.’

If you wish to buy the bottle, cross 5 Gold Pieces off
your Adventure Sheet and turn to 205. If you can’t or
won't pay the beggar, turn to 44.

3
Do you have the Disguise Special Skill? If you do, turn
to 291; but if you do not, tum to 339.

LLY

4-5

Your tense vigil is a brief one; the moment Conrad's
aead rises above the floor of the loft, you thrust your
“weapon towards his face. But he reaches out with
amazing swiftness, seizes the pole in one hand and
snaps it like a twig! His other hand holds the machete.

CONRAD,
tne Maniac Guard

SKILL 10

STAMINA [2

you win, turn to 293.

-ushing yourself to the limit, you soon come to within
29 arm's length of the fleeing figure — but what is he
= to? If you have the Combat Special Skill, turn to
=35: if not, tun to 236.

6

You watch as the water rises, centimetre by centimetre.
Suddenly, something taps you on the back. You turn
and see that it is one of the bodies, floating in the
water! You yourself are now chest deep in the murky
stuff, yet the flood shows no sign of abating. Will you
continue to wait (turn to 170), climb up the rungs
(turn to 140) or reach for the beam (turn to 391)?

~
Scared by the fight, the other inmates huddle together
at the far end of the vault — all, that is, except for one
man who steps forward and gives you a locket. The
locket contains two miniature portraits: one of the
man, looking handsome and splendid, and the other of
a beautiful woman. The man speaks with surprising
clarity: ‘Please, find my lady and give her this locket.
She must know.’

You promise to do as the man asks, then hurry out of
the room (add the Inmate’s Locket to your Adventure
Sheet). It occurs to you that you could free the inmates
by leaving this door open. If you wish to do so, note
that you have freed the inmates on your Adventure
Sheet, then return to the hall and pick a door you
haven't already tried. Will you enter Nosh (tum to
275), Big Trubbull (tum to 287), Fat Maggots (turn to
117) or Wipefeet (turn to 58)?

8
You were advised to carry out your investigations
stealthily, but you have chosen to disregard that advice

g-10

and in doing so have inawred the full wrath of your
omnipotent foe. When you reach the Last Octopus,
you find the Jai-Hulud, Karam Gruul‘s sorcerer-assassins,
waiting for you. They easily overpower you, and soon
there is no sign of either them or you on the wharf.

there are only a few more steps to go before you
reach the top floor. If you have the Sneak Special Skill,
sum to 398. If you do not, Test your Luck, If you are
Lucky, turn to 398; if you are Unlucky, turn to 46.

10
the Cross Keys area of Blackhaven is also known as
she ‘square of delights’, for it is richly populated with
dubious places of ‘entertainment’. None of these dens
of vice is more disreputable than Gustav Hollmann’s
Chamber of Horrors, an ever-popular waxworks de-
woted to the macabre. According to Van Heldenghast,
most of Hollmann’s exhibits are simple models; but
ame, the Angevin Shroud, is the Ward you seek. At
oresent, the entrance to the Chamber of Horrors is
rammed with eager sightseers, all fighting to get in
=rough the double doors at the same time. If you
wish to use this confusion to try and sneak into the
waxworks without paying, turn to 341. Jf you would
rather wait your turn in the queue, cross 3 Gold Pieces
ot your Adventure Sheet and turn to 130. But if you
mave gone off the idea of entering this ghoulish place,
add z Hour and return to 200.
II-I3

Ii

Steadman’s ale is the most disgusting drink you have
ever tasted, but you gulp it down — and fall uncon-
scious! When you wake up on the tavern floor some
time later, you can see no sign of the two of them
Nor do you see any sign of your belongings — the
rogues have taken the lot! The other drunkards in the
tavern laugh at your plight and throw you out on to
the street. If you have the Tracking Special Skill, turn
to 85; if you do not, cross everything off your Adventure
Sheet, add 1 Hour,and return to 200.

12
Bennet is already beyond help: not only is the knife-
wound deep, it is also dripping with poison! The
distinctive knife itself, however, offers you a valuable
clue in that it can only have come from the forge of
Alcham Lugosh — a local armourer renowned for the
craftsmanship he brings to vile and unusual weaponry.
Sadly, this profession has made Lugosh a rich man. If, in
future, you are given a chance to call on Lugosh at his
forge in Priestsgate, you may do so by tuming to 64
(make a note of this paragraph number on your Adven-
ture Sheet). Now, will you examine Bennet’s drawer
(turn to 149), or go over to the window (turn to 80)?

r3
‘The Shocker?’ Eviron grunts. ‘What's there to say?
Nobody knows who or what it is, but it’s claimed
eight people within just two weeks, The most recent
was a few hours ago — frozen with fear like the rest of
‘em. Worst thing is, it’s affecting my trade.’ Her trade!

I4-1§

Is that all she cares about? If you wish to continue
your conversation, return to 387 and choose another
topic. But if you have had enough of this selfish
money-grubber, you may join in the gambling game,
if you haven't tried your luck already (turn to 70), or
go and stand by yourself (turn to 361).

14
You call across to the brutish Provosts: ‘Come, my
itiends, take your hands off that wretched unfortunate,
and let us do business.” The Man-Orcs are not amused,
but the beggar nods in gratitude and nips off down an

alley.

‘Wotcha want, gimp?’ snarls one of the hooded rogues.
You choose not to mince words and offer the Provosts
gold if they will tum a blind eye to the gallows for
‘ust a moment, Make a note of the total number of
Gold Pieces you wish to pay the Man-Ores, then turn

to 37.

15

Realizing that you are hopelessly outclassed, you turn
your back on the gleaming killer. But the Obisian
Predator is too fast and lashes out with its jagged
wrist blades, Roll one die and deduct the number
rolled from your sTAMINA. Despite the pain of your
wounds, you carry on running, only to see the creature
drop to the ground in front of you — it has jumped
over your head! Confident of making its kill, the
hunter reaches out for you. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 138; if you are Unlucky, tum to 182.
16-17

16

Thunder rumbles ominously as Conrad pitches over
the edge of the loft and falls to his death on the mill
workings, below. Then one, two, three bolts of light-
ning crash through the roof of the mill and strike
Zaar’s body, causing it to glow and then ... to rise! In
complete silence, Conrad climbs to his feet, dons an
armoured face-plate, then reaches for a machete. Then,
‘ust as silently, he comes climbing up the ladder to the
‘oft after you! His slow, precise movements indicate
verrific strength, No longer is he simply Conrad Zaar;
now, he is Conrad, the Maniac Guard! You try to push
the ladder away from the loft, but it is fixed firmly in
place. Will you:

Stand and fight? Turn to 350
Flee Conrad’s clutches? Turn to 165
Try to think of another way
to defeat him? Turn to 308
X7

The moment you touch the door handle, the squeak-
ing noise stops, But, undeterred, you open the door
and step into a small dark room. Something crunches
under your foot; you look down and discover that the
door is littered with the skeletons of rats! Suddenly
the squeaking begins again. You strain to see where
it is coming from, but your ears tell you that it is
coming from above your head. Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, turn to 45. If you are Unlucky, tum to
368.
18

r8

You drag the Troll into the alley and change into his
stinking outsize uniform, stuffing your own clothes
into your backpack. This done, you approach the door
of the asylum and are admitted by another Troll
‘Getta move on, scum!’ he growls. ‘Yoo’re late!’ Saying
nothing, you pass through into the grim dungeon
corridors. Soon you come to a hall off which lead five
doors, On each of these doors is a crude sign painted
by an Orcish hand. Which door will you open:

Big Laffs? Turn to 220
Nosh? Tum to 275
Big Trubbull? Turn to 287
Fat Maggots? Turn to 117
Wipefeet? Tum to §8

Ig-20

19
= comes as no surprise to learn that Gruul is at Hope’s
rnd, for it is there that the few broken walls, all that
remains of his Tower of Inquisition, stand — the villain
sas returned to the scene of his greatest infamies! Why
ne should do so, however, is another matter; Hope's
=nd is little more than a rocky desert scarred with
coals of steaming brown sludge, and Gallantarian
soldiers patrol there regularly

awn breaks, and you are less than a kilometre away
=om the ruin when you hear the rumbling sound of at
east a hundred horses skirting a hill behind you. Will
you dive for cover in one of the sludge pits (turn to
164), run up the hillside and hide behind some rocks
-um to 21§), or wait by the roadside (turn to 280)?

20
Setermined to halt the flight of your prey, you step
nto the mist... and scream! The luminescent gas is an
achemical corrosive which even now is melting the
Sesh from your bones. There is nothing you can do
zut hope that the end comes soon.

2I~22

21

Fogwalkers pour into the square and shamble towards
you, Quickly you grab a flaming log and wave it at
the mindless creatures, but their plague-ravaged skin is
not bothered by the fire! You must make a dash for
safety before you are completely surrounded. Roll one
die to see how many Fogwalkers stand in your way.
As the creatures are straggling along your route, you
must fight them one at a time. Each Fogwalker has the
following attributes:

FOGWALKER SKILL 7 STAMINA &

After you defeat a Fogwalker, roll one die, If you roll
a 6, you catch the plague and die horribly. If you
survive all your opponents, you may make for either
the bell-tower (tum to 397), the door with the red
cross (turn to 48), the door with the rose-shaped
handle (turn to 158), or the door beneath the wooden
sign (turn to 286).

22

Unsure as to the wisdom of your action, you tug on)

the chain, and then you marvel as it simply falls away
from the Demothrax’s body. Unfettered, Argolis rises
trom her seat of torment and bellows: ‘Free! Now all
Blackhaven shall know my wrath ... beginning with
YOU! The Demothrax plainly intends to crush the life
out of you. If you have the Acrobatics Special Skill
turn to 322. If you do not, you may either stand and
fight (turn to 66), try to use the chain to bind Argolis
once more (turn to 254) or turn and flee (turn to 81).

23-24

23

The Last Octopus stands in the heart of Blackhaven’s
docklands, a sprawl! of wharfs and warehouses infested
with merchants, sailors, travellers, beggars, sots and
thieves! Boats of all kinds are moored up on the
Border River, which itself is impressive to the eye, yet
zepellent to the nose! You have heard that the docks
are currently being terrorized by an unknown fiend,
nicknamed the Shocker, who frightens victims to death
defore escaping into the night. And now you are alone

. in the fiend’s domain . .. at night. It comes as no
surprise then, when you feel someone tap you on the
shoulder, that you should react a little hastily. But
your ‘fiend’ is only a pathetic beggar. ‘Give us a
shiny,’ she drawls, ‘an’ I'll tell yer wot I seen last
night.’ If you give the beggar a Gold Piece, tur to 2.
+ you refuse, turn to 44,

24
Undead once more, the Vampire reaches out towards
vou with his taloned hands — his is a centuries-old
thirst which he must slake! But you are too quick for
nim; you quickly take out your Silver Cross and use it

25

to repel him. Milescu recoils with a feral snarl. ‘Your
puny symbol may prevent my powers of bewitchment,
but I am no petty vampire to be thwarted at the sight
of a sweetheart’s jewellery!’ Then he attacks, driven by
his need for fresh blood, which is stronger than any
fear of the Cross.

BARON MILESCU SKILL 9 STAMINA 15

If you win and have a stake, turn to 352; if you win
but do not have a stake, turn to 312.

25

Just as the sword sphere is about to glow once more,
you smash jt to smithereens. Then, if you haven't
already done so, you do the same to the lock crystal,
The door to the disused temple swings open — there is
no evil here any more. Restore 1 Luck point. If you
wish to search the temple, now that it is safe, turn to
125. If not, you had better retum to the Last Octopus:
if the word ‘Cainam’ is written on your Adventure
Sheet, turn to 2§1; otherwise, tum to 277.

26-28

26
The Provosts are not impressed. In a matter of fact
manner they unhook the cudgels from their belts and
stand ready to crack your skull open. You must fight
them both at the same time.

SKILL STAMINA
First PROVOST 8 7
Second PROVOST 7 6

If you win, turn to rro,

27
Huge chunks of masonry crash down on your head
and knock you senseless. You do not get up again.

28

Not wishing to give Hogg the wrong impression, you
tell him, slowly and distinctly, that you wouldn’t trust
him as far as you can spit! He'll get the money after
the job is done, and not a penny before, ‘I’m gravely
hurt by yer lack of faith in Mister Kilmarney,) Hogg
replies, ‘but a deal’s a deal. We'll go do the necessary,
then meet you outside the graveyard in half an hour,’
You agree, then hurry out of the Three Broken Fingers,
surprised to find yourself still in good health.

You reach the tall gates of Meinster Cemetery with
minutes to spare. If you wish, and only if you have the
proper costume and Special Skill) you may use the
time to disguise yourself as a Vampire; tum to 364.
Otherwise, turn to 38.

29-30

Fg 29

When you finally reach Hope’s End, you can see no
neha” sign of the Cabal, but you do see something else,
which shocks you to the core: Zombie slaves are
everywhere, hard at work in their task of rebuilding
the Tower of Inquisition! And some of the Zombies
wear Gallantarian uniforms . . .

vv

To reach the loathsome edifice, you will have to cross
half a kilometre of desert which is swarming not only
with Zombies but also with Orcish overseers, wielding
their whips with relish. That said, the plain is broken
by lines of trenches and by work posts which may
offer you some shelter. If you wish, and only if you
have the proper costume and Special Skill, you may
disguise yourself as an Orc rogue (turn to 349). Other-
wise, if you have the Disguise Special Skill, turn to 298;
if you have the Sneak Special Skill, turn to §9; if you
have neither, turn to 153.

30

Exhausted, Gruul tries to kill you with the Ethereal
Projector, but you push him aside and tum the device
on the Cabal. Most of your enemies perish beneath
the deadly rays, but some flee, leaving the way clear
for you to drag Gruul out to a small courtyard. There,
you tie him over the back of a horse, then ride at full
speed across the desert. Zombie slaves and Cabal
members are everywhere, but they are in disarray and
can do nothing to prevent your escape.

As you ride, you tell Gruul just who you are: ‘1 first

31

came here as a prisoner-of-war. Because I was an
officer in the Gallantarian army, you turned me into
some kind of nocturnal creature with strange powers.
But I had no will of my own and you forced me to
betray my comrades. I found a cure for my body soon
after the war ended, but | still haven’t found a cure for
my nightmares.’

‘So. A Moonrunner, eh?’ Gruul purrs. He closes his
eyes and you start to feel a little dizzy. If the word
‘Rennur’ is written on your Adventure Sheet, turn to
147. If it is not, roll two dice and add the numbers
tolled together. If the total is less than or equal to
your current STAMINA score, tum to 16g, If the total is
higher than your current STAMINA Score, turn to 147

31
The moment you take hold of the mask, it changes
into an exact copy of your own face! Its eyes open
and fix you to the spot, while its mouth utters a
solemn pronouncement: ‘Belthegor’s Gift is the second
life; Belthegor’s Curse is the second death.’ Then
everything tums black.

Feeling weak and weary (deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA), you wake up near Newham Market, where
your roving gaze is met by the sunken eyes of a pale,
skeletal wretch who looks more dead than alive. Then
you realize that you are actually looking at a reflection
of yourself in a window! This is Belthegor’s Curse. Not
only do you look like death, you are also compelled to
seek it. Whenever you meet the option to fight, .you

32-34

must Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, you may choose
your action as normal. If you are Unlucky, you must
fight. Now add 3 Hours and return to 200.

32
The Corpse Master brandishes his notched blade in
sickly triumph. ‘Whom serve, prying eye?’ he grates,
the evil in his voice matched only by the chaos of
the music. You will need your wits about you if you
are to survive this terrifying encounter. Will you

reply:

The City Guard? Turn to 225
The Cabal of the Werewolf? Turn to 133
No one? Turn to 271

To reach the desk drawer, you must first move
Bennet’s slumped body out of the way. But this
unpleasant task is the least of your problems, as the
drawer is a locked Kharian puzzle-drawer which will
open only when pressure is applied to a precise point
on its plain wooden surface. Do you have the Lock
Picking Special Skill? If you do, turn to 189; otherwise,
turn to §§.

You shrug wearily and admit that, yes, you are tired
of futilely struggling against superior odds, and that
you would do anything for such a generous sum as
that now being offered, While you are speaking the
man remains motionless, his hand still extended; when

35-36,

you finish, he replies, ‘Good. Now let us seal your
allegiance with a fraternal handshake.’ Will you take
the masked man’s hand {tum to 185) or politely
decline (turn to 250)?

35

A sudden mystic fog sends you into a deep sleep
When you wake up, you find yourself lying in a
coffin-like cage. Two removable panels, one above
your knees and the other below your neck, divide the
cage into three sections, ‘Ah, awake at last. You have
been brought here by my Magus, Radu.’ You look up
into the face of Karam Gruul! He nods to a hooded
figure at his side then continues, ‘Connected to the
foot of the cage is a box holding six starving rats.
When I open the cage, the rats will rush in, eager to
devour your flesh. If | remove the two panels inside
the cage, the rats will feed on your stomach, and then
your face. Now talk!’

Will you surrender to Gruul's evil devices (turn to
234), or tell him that you'd rather die (turn to 118)?

36

Crabb rings a bell and waits in beatific silence for a
human warden who brings in two servings of thick
stew. You tuck into the stew ,.. until you notice that
Crabb isn't eating. ‘Yes,’ he confirms, ‘T’'ve poisoned
you.’ A twisted grin stretches across his thin lips. ‘I’m
only following orders, you understand — Doktor's
orders! Hee, Hee, heeeeee!’ Crabb’s insane gibbering
taunts you to your doom.

37-38

You show the greedy ruffians the colour of your
money, but have you offered them enough? If there
are fourteen or more Gold Pieces in your hand, turn to
329; anything less, turn to 26

38

The bodysnatchers prove to be true to their word:
they appear, some time later, bearing spades. Hogg
greets you, then leads you through the gloomy cem-
etery to an unmarked grave: ‘Yer skull is hidden in a
tomb, built, so legend has it, by an ancient warrior
who returns every hundred years, The door to the
tomb lies beneath this mound — but I warn yer, we'll
not go down there with yer. We've heard some fearful
noises comin’ from that place,’

They set to work and soon dig quite a good-sized
hole. ‘Gah!’ pants Hogg. ‘I can’t go any further. Me
sinews are bulgin’ with exertion. We need rest, but
there'll be no delay if yer help us out.’ If you pick up a
spade, turn to 98; but if you are content to wait until
they get their strength back, turn to 202.
terre aa | fat ee Pon * "Bac

Sees sie peed ng- these temeath she

best gatrcwe eget te ttpwellidee bree a tre
theres Maw Huse Blew eed Gere
wu mare, ‘iced nd de ot Ande

Crepllaal” sm Aeareiig the: Fane Spmat, «Ame

39-41

39

Besides the mill workings, the hay and the farming
tools (including an axe, which you may take if you do
not already have a weapon), you find a meal of
Provisions and a curious printed leaflet, both of which
you take. You may study the leaflet now, or at any
cime in the future, by looking at the picture opposite
this paragraph. Everyone in Blackhaven has seen simi-
larly cryptic leaflets, issued by the Eternal Fraternity of
the Rosy Chalice, posted all over the city; but no one
nas ever encountered the Fraternity itself, leading some
to believe that the whole affair is a hoax. What
concerns you, though, is the leaflet’s mention of the
Last Octopus. Could this Fraternity be linked in some
way to the Cabal of the Werewolf? The portcullis still
bars the exit, so will you go down into the cellar (tum
to 389) or up to the loft (turn to 201)?

40

It seems that every time the sword glows orange,
you have to suffer the agonies of a magical attack, so
you decide to put the thing out of action once and for
all But when you hit the sword, the shield crystal
glows brighter and your attack bounces off the pol-
ished orb to no avail, In response, the sword glows
orange ~— lose 2 STAMINA points. Which orb will you
hit out at next: the lock (turn to 306) or the shield
(turn to 366)?

4I
Your prey is clearly skilled in the art of evasion, but
you are more so, and soon you have the cunning devil
42

under constant surveillance. Will you call out to the
assassin, to stop him from going any further (turn to
236), rush forward and attack him (turn to 5) or keep
your distance, in the hope of following him to his
ultimate destination (turn to 195)?

42
The sharp talons are but centimetres from your face
when they turn sharply away. You heave a sigh of
relief and wipe the sweat off your brow. However,
your ordeal is not over yet. Baphet uses its claws to
take its own chest. The foul flesh erupts in lines of
weeping wounds which drip a fetid liquid. The Impera-
tor steps forward, a golden chalice cupped in her
hands. She uses the receptacle to collect some of the
gurgling ichor, then offers it to you. ‘Drink!’ Will you
do as she commands (turn to 63), or follow the dictate
of your senses and refuse (turn to 333)?

43-44

43
The ruthless manhunter gives no quarter, It knocks

you on to your back and swings its twin blades at
your throat. Death seems but a moment away when a
aolt of lightning shoots down from the heavens and
clasts the Obisian Predator into fiery oblivion. So high
above the ground, the metal-skinned beast makes the
verfect lightning-conductor! The gods are smiling on
you this day — gain 1 Luck point for this good
rortune. Now, if you haven't been there already, you
may go to the Shrine of Belthegor (turn to 248);
atherwise, add 3 Hours and return to 200.

Gertcha!’ the woman snarls, her mood taking a sudden
curn for the worse. Fink I’m scum, do yer? she spits,
chen staggers drunkenly away You make for the Last
Octopus, which you realize must be somewhere near
ay. Indeed it is, but at this ungodly hour it is also
closed, If you are given the chance, you may return to
tne tavern later, even though you may not normally
revisit a location you have already been to
45-46

Suddenly a chilling scream shatters the stillness of the
night. The beggarwoman! You run back along the
wharf, to find that she has become the latest victim of
the Shocker! Her hair is grey and her body is frozen in
a grip of terror. You turn and catch sight of something
fleeing down an alleyway ahead of you. If you wish to
give chase, turn to 357. If you are daunted by the
prospect of tackling the Shocker alone, you had best
leave and continue your manhunt at either Craven
Asylum (turn to 393), Malt Lane (turn to 207) or, if
you have reason to go there, at Priestsgate or Weath-
ern Mill,

45
A large bat is hovering over you! It screeches, then

spits out a trickle of steaming blood, which drips
down towards your face. You manage to dodge the
blood but you see that the bat itself is flying towards
the open door. Will you attack the bat before it goes
free (turn to 347) or fet it be (turn to 255)?

46
The top step creaks beneath your tread, activating a
most heinous device. A needle on the end of a coiled
metal tube shoots up through a hole in the step, jabs
you in the neck and injects you with a mind-numbing
fluid. You pull the needle out, but the liquid is already
coursing like ice through your veins. The fluid ts the
result of some dire alchemy, and it erases part of your
mind. Cross one Special Skill of your choice off your
Adventure Sheet — you may no longer use it. As the

47-48

pain subsides, you stagger up the stairs, lurch over to
Entador’s room and stumble in through the door; turn
to 87.

47
Minutes later, a couple of Troll wardens are strolling

along the corridor when one of them trips over your
body. It is only when they both stop laughing that
they pick you up and carry you off to the asylum’s
laboratory, where ... No, it is best if we simply say
that your quest ends here.

b ; i \y ‘
witht - y OY ae

TP ’
Ww As 4) &
‘

48
Traditionally, a red cross is painted on doors to warn
folk against entering houses infected with the plague
You go into the hut, and soon you find yourself
gasping for air. Your skin erupts in boils and your
eyes roll as you drift into the painful delirium of
death.
hi ; wil! PIRICA
i ‘ ite Pays, ir BY aN
esi | |e MAUI

49-51

49
‘our fight over, you take a moment to ,.. wait,

what's that hissing sound? You look at your feet and
ze horrified to see shards of glass scattered about on
mie ground The glass phial holding Baron Milescu’s
stood has accidentally been broken during the battle.
‘Worse, the blood of you and your opponent has
mixed with the Baron’s powdery remains, imbuing
stem with life! Mist folds upon mist as the vapours
swiftly merge and solidify into the form of Baron
Milescu, Vampire Lord of Vannan! If you have a Silver
Cross, turn to 24; if you do not, turn to 136.

50

Curse the skull! You leave the wretched thing in your
zack and clamber up on the base of the guillotine,
However, no sooner do your feet leave the ground
chan the skull cries out: ‘The shroud! The shroud!’
Hearing this, the doorman hurries over to see what is
zoing on. Will you try to rejoin the party, so that you
may offer to buy the shroud from Hollmann (turn to
78), or flee the place before the doorman catches sight
at you? If you wish to leave at once, and the word
Cainam’ is written on your Adventure Sheet, turn to
295; if it is not, add 1 Hour and return to 200.

51
The phantom prowls back and forth across the stage,
considering your words. ‘Gruul warmbody also. Lies
dawn vanity inside, Gruul must run red by full moon.
Corpse Master gravetongue.’
52-53

You cannot believe your luck: the Corpse Master has
swom an oath to destroy Karam Gruul! Restore 1
LUCK point for your masterful deceit, and write down
the word ‘Esproc’ on your Adventure Sheet. You look
back to the phantom, but he is gone, and in his place
is a great fire! You hurry out of the hall, past an office
in which you observe a wooden strongbox. Disregard-
ing the raging fire, will you stop to take a look at the
strongbox (turn to 84), or keep on running for the exit
(turn to 383)?

52
Conrad lies beaten — but for how long? Fearing the
worst, you bind him with some heavy chains which
you find in the fallen hut, then push him over into the
Border River. The Maniac Guard hits the water with a
loud splash, then sinks down to the murky depths
below. No bubbles rise to the surface. Could Conrad
Zaar finally be at rest?

You resume your watch over the Last Octopus, and
night descends. A distant bell tolls eleven, but you still
haven't seen... Murder! Murder! Help! The Shocker!
Murder!’ The shouts come from some men who must
be in one of the nearby streets. If you wish to go and
see what has happened, turn to 86. If you would
rather continue your watch on the tavern, turn to 253.

53
Just when you begin to think that you are wasting

your time, the quivering door swings open of its own
accord. You step warily forward ... and find yourself

54-56

standing in Dexter Street, some two kilometres away!
Mawn Pretoragus has denied you entry to his sanctum.
Add 3 Hours and return to 200

54
The sorcerer assassin crashes to the ground with a

Dlercing screarn, Desperate for clues, you search
through his robes and find a small Trephen Jewel and
a map. You may use the magic jewel any number of
cimes by Testing your Luck. If you are Lucky, you may
restore 2 points to your STAMINA; if you are Unlucky,
the jewel disappears and you must cross it off your
Adventure Sheet, You may use the Trephen Jewel at
any time except during a battle.

The map is of the Blackhaven area You sce that the
Mark of the Werewolf has been drawn over the
village of Penkhull, along with the words: ‘The Secret
Chiefs’, It is to Penkhull, then, that you shall go. Turn
to 369.

55
Push and prod as you may, the drawer simply will not

open. If you wish to use your sword to try and break
it open, turn to 319. If you would rather let the
troublesome thing be, you may either go and help
Bennet (turn to 12) or make for the open window (turn
to 8a),

56
The door opens into a small room, full of decomposing
bodies: skeletons, that look as if they've been down
57-58

here for hundreds of years Fortunately, you are spared
the stench from them by an air-shaft which runs up
from the ceiling Suddenly, the door slams shut behind
you. You try to open it, but it is locked Satished that
you have seen enough of this dreadful place, you pick
the lock a second time and leave. If you haven’t done
so already, will you now try the east door (tum to
141) or the west door (turn to 17)?

57
By the time you reach Blackhaven’s docklands, the sun
is rising over the eastern horizon, and the place is alive
with merchants, sailors and ne’er-do-wells going about
their business, Yet at night these same wharfs and
warehouses are shunned, for fear of meeting the infa-
mous Shocker — an unknown fiend who frightens
victims to death before vanishing into the darkness.
It's been a long night for you, but maybe you'll get
some well-earned rest in the Last Octopus. If any of
the words ‘Darnoc’, ‘Kehsil’, ‘Retsam’ or ‘Rotkod’ are
written on your Adventure Sheet, count the number of
words noted and if you have:

None of the words? Turn to 399
One or two of the words? Turn to 343
Three or four of the words? Turn to 8

58
You pass through the door marked ‘Wipefeet’ and
enter a long corridor which ends in two separate
doors No one is about, so you walk up to the first
door on which the legend ‘Deputy Director’ is written

wii, ae

59—-6o

in gilt paint. You open the door and step into a
luxurious office! A foppish man, sitting behind a desk,
looks up at you, If you are disguised as a warden, turn
to 318; if you are not, turn to 348,

59
Despite the available cover, reaching the tower unno-

ticed will be a challenge even for you; the sun is high
and Zombie slaves are all over the place. Still, you
must try. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, tum to 103;
if you are Unlucky, turn to 153

60

Queer mist or no queer mist, you are not about to let
the blackguard escape you! Sword drawn, you hurry
forward into the fumes. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 143; if you are Unlucky, tim to 20
61-62

6x

Anyone entering the Three Broken Fingers had better
watch his or her back but, thanks to Van Heldenghast,
enter you must: ‘The most powerful Ward is the Skull
of Mora Tao. I know very little about the skull, only
that it is buried somewhere in Meinster Cemetery. Go
to the Three Broken Fingers and seek out Kilmamey
and Hogg. These two body-snatchers are the most
untrustworthy people you are ever likely to meet, but
only they know how to find the skull.’

Once inside the rancid hovel, you approach a roly-
poly little man standing by the bar, and you ask him if
he can point out the grave-robbers. “Well, mercy me!’
he gasps, ‘if I'm not that very Mister Hogg yer be
after! An’ this,’ he nods to a veritable scarecrow at his
side, ‘is my business partner, Mister Kilmamey.’ You
tell Hogg why you wish to hire them both. When you
finish, he replies, ‘It’s most kind of yer to tink of
employin’ two lowly vagrants, but as yer undertakin’
is a most perilous one, we'll have to beg the outrageous
fee of three shinies per head. Just to show yer it’s
not’in’ personal, yer can have me pint of Steadman’s
Dark Horse.’ He thrusts a flagon of scummy ale under
your nose, Will you drink the brew (tum to r1) or
politely decline (turn to 390)?

AR! , i) 62
cadhiilibeade i ot You take the sphere out of your pack and hurl it at the
\ in , Obisian Predator’s metal chest. The glass shatters and

wn
= :
—_— ~~ comes! Bubbling, hissing, evaporating, the manhunter

releases its deadly vapours — yet still the creature

63-64

tries to grab hold of you, to pull you into the acidic
mist; but it tries in vain, and soon its death roar is
heard echoing over Sanger’s Beacon. Restore 1 LUCK
point for your narrow escape. If you haven’‘t been
there already, you may now go to the Shrine of
Belthegor (turn to 248); otherwise, add 3 Hours and
return to 200,

63

Baphet's ichor smells truly stomach-tuming, but you
raise the chalice to your lips and swallow. A few
tormented seconds pass before you realize that the
chalice is empty! Baphet vanishes and the Imperator
removes the chalice from your hands. ‘Your courage in
the face of illusion is proof of the strength and wisdom
needed to become an Adept of the Outer Order of the
Rosy Chalice. Later, you will be given robes and a
Fraternal name. But now, I ask you, do you wish to
penetrate the veil of the Inner Order of the Rosy
Chalice? Dare you present yourself to the Secret Chiefs
whose will is reality?’

The assembly reacts to the mention of the Secret
Chiefs with undisguised fear, and a devious glint is in
the Imperator’s eye. If you tell her that you dare join
the Inner Order, turn to 142. But if you excuse
yourself, saying that you stil! have much to learn
about the Outer Order, turn to 276.

64
Alcham Lugosh, deviser of a thousand vile deaths,
lives behind a magically protected door, at the end of

65

a nondescript alley in the Priestsgate part of the city. You
knock on this door — and fall through a trapdoor! You
land, some eight metres down, on the cold stone floor of
a cylindrical pit; deduct 3 points from your STAMINA, A
set of rusty iron rungs runs up the wall, passing a wooden
beam which spans the pit about a metre above your head.
Scattered around on the floor of the pit are the remains of
twelve bodies, each has three fingers missing from their
right hand! Suddenly, the trapdoor closes above you and
a duct opens at your feet, to admit tidal waters from the
nearby Border River. The icy wash floods around your
ankles. Whoever has trapped you down here intends you
to drown! And drown you must unless you find some
means of escape. Will you reach for the wooden beam
{turn to 391), climb up the rungs (turn to 140), or ignore
them both and wait (turn to 6)?

65
The lock clicks and the door swings open. If you
opened the door using a Red Key and the word

66-67

‘Rednel’ is written on your Adventure Sheet, turn to
272, Otherwise, Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, fun
to 272; if you are Unlucky, turn to ror

66

Before you know it, Argolis crashes into you. But it is
not only your death she is interested in; she is also
tempted by the freedom of the open cell door. If you
lose two successive Attack Rounds, she will escape.
Also, as Argolis is so powerful, you must deduct 4
points from your sTAMINA each time you lose an
Attack Round. Now fight!

ARGOLIS SKILL 8 STAMINA 13

If you win, turn to 222, but if Argolis escapes, turn to
8x.

67

Gruul’s eyes ... they’re piercing the depths of your
very soul. You waver on your feet as strange words
filter insidiously into your mind. Deduct 5 points from
Gruul’s Notura, If you do not have the Hand of Glory,
make a note of the word ‘Rennur’ on your Adventure
Sheet. If you do have the hand, but the word ‘Q’yann’
is not written on your Adventure Sheet, turn to 217. If
you have both the Hand of Glory and the word ‘Q’y-
ann’ on your Adventure Sheet, you are protected from
Gruul’s magic. Whatever the outcome, your mind
suddenly becomes clear again. If the word ‘Esproc’ is
written on your Adventure Sheet, turn to 188; otherwise,
retum to 300.

68-69

68
Still running, you raise your head and bark, ‘Stop the
carriage at once!’ But no one is more surprised than
you when the vehicle comes to a halt straight away
The driver has done nothing whatsoever to slow the
carriage and now he sits perfectly still, facing forward,
while his horses paw impatiently with their hoofs. Will
you attack the driver (turn to 115), open the carriage
door (turn to 437), or walk away from this unnatural
scene and go back in pursuit of the Man-Orc (turn to

41)?

69

Gazing dumbly into space, you turn away from the
Ore. ‘Hey!’ he barks. ‘Zombies do everyfin’ [ tell ‘em.’
Then he turns and orders a band of Zombies to seize
you. But you are too quick for the dull-witted creatures,
You make a break for the tower — only to find more
Zombies ahead of you. To your right, however, is a
fenced-off area where supplies are kept. A gate at the
far side of this enclosure opens near the foot of the
tower, There are no Zombies inside the enclosure, but
four of them guard the gate leading into it If you
have the Hexalpha, turn to 90. If you do not, you
must fight all the Zombies at the same time

SKILL STAMINA
First ZOMBIE SLAVE 6 6
Second ZOMBIE SLAVE 5 7
Third ZOMBIE SLAVE 6 5
Fourth ZOMBIE SLAVE 7 8

If you defeat them all, turn to go.

yO-7I

Jo
A small crowd is gathered round a table at which sits
a scruffy old thimblerigger. ‘It’s easy-peasy,’ he laughs,
‘I, Jubar DeMonto, put this Gold Piece under one of
me three thimbles, move ‘em round a bit, then you
guess which one the shiny’s under. But I won't waste
your time playing for just one poxy piece. No, lazies
and grunts, you pay two shinies to play and then, if
you win, you get your Ewo back plus another ten
Why, I’m almost throwing me money away!’

If you wish to prove that your eye is faster than
Jubar’s hand, make a note of the stakes you bet on
your Adventure Sheet and turn to 330, Otherwise, you
had better head back to the bar and either stand alone
(turn to 361), or try to engage Eviron in conversation
(turn to 387)

71
You can tell at a glance that the drainpipe will be too
weak to support your weight, so you climb up to the
window using tiny cracks in the wall as fingerholds.

72

Your ascent done, you scramble through the window
into a room which is a confusion of theatrical props
Paper moons and waxen hogs hold no interest for
you, but you do take a Stage Knife, You never know
when such a trick, with its retractable blade and con-
cealed phial of fake blood, may come in handy

You are still toying with the prop when you hear a
scream and the discordant boom of a pipe organ
coming from somewhere within the theatre. Will you
follow the music to its source (turn to 260) or climb
back out of the window and leave the Rohmer while
you still can (turn to 383)?

72
You accept the tankard but do not drink from it
Instead, you sneakily swap it for Kilmarney’s. The
unsuspecting rogue takes a sip, and falls flat on his
face! Just as you thought, the ale was drugged —
regain 1 LUCK point. ‘Erm, beggin’ yer pardon,’ stam-
mers Hoge as you grab him by the seruff of his neck,
‘it was Kilmarney’s doin’. He likes a bit of jiggery-
pokery. I had not'in’ to do with it, honest. Look, I'll
drop the fee to two gold each, as settlement.’

You accept his apology but warn Hogg that if they
try anything like that again, they'll regret it. ‘T’ank yer
very much,’ he grovels. ‘Bul now we've arrangements
to make, bribes to pay, an’ the like. So, pay us the fee,
an’ we'll meet at the cemetery in half an hour.’ If you
pay Hogg, cross 4 Gold Pieces off your Adventure
Sheet and tum to 374. But if you cannot or will not
pay him just yet, turn to 28.
73774

73

Carter Street, Fisherman’s Wharf, Dog Lane, Wayland
Court — you search high and low through these places
but find nothing. ‘I’ve had enough,’ moans an inkeeper.
‘It’s been nearly an hour. Let’s face it, the Shocker’s
vanished.’ The others mumble similar admissions of
defeat, then move off on their separate ways; the hunt
for the Shocker is over. A balding fellow shakes your
hand and bids you goodnight. Your eyes fix on his
ring: it is engraved with the Mark of the Werewolf!
The man coughs nervously, then walks away. Will
you follow him and try to question him about the
Cabal (turn to 13x) or return to the Last Octopus to
resume your watch (turn to 362)?

You enter the derelict temple and find the sinister
figure waiting for you. Only now the hood has failen
back to reveal the face of something not quite human,
‘You have troubled the Cabal for too long!’ snaps the
creature. ‘But now I, Radu, Magus of the Master, have
lured you to your doom!’

As Radu speaks, he rotates three crystal balls in the
palm of his hand. The orbs circle in and out of one
another, and continue to do so as they rise up into the
air and float towards you! One of the spheres glows
bright orange and a strange fire burns you — deduct 2
points from your STAMINA. Radu laughs, then vanishes
in a puff of smoke. Will you search the temple (turn to
178), study the crystal spheres (turn to 231) or flee
(turn to 95)?
75-76

It is eleven at night when you return to Harbour Row.
Professor Van Heldenghast greets you warmly and
serves you a splendid supper; restore up to 4 STAMINA
points. As you eat, she says, ‘At midnight tonight, the
Eternal Fraternity of the Rosy Chalice — a mystical
secret society — is meeting at the Last Octopus. The
Fraternity is a front for the Cabal. You must watch the
tavern and see what you can do. ] myself am leaving
Blackhaven, as 1 have now done all 1 can to help you.
Maybe we will meet again,’

You thank Van Heldenghast for all her help, then you
leave for the tavern; but as you arrive ... ‘Murder!
Help! The Shocker! Murder!’ The cries are coming
from some men in a street near by. Will you go and
see what has happened (tum to 86) or stay and keep
an eye on the tavern (tum to 253)?

76

You lift the drapes aside just in time to see Radu pull a
lever in the wall. A door opens before him, and the
roof of the chamber caves in! You watch as Gruul is
crushed beneath a block of stone. But his blood . . . it's
green! This is because it is not Karam Gruul who lies
there on the floor, it is a plant-like replica, a Mandrake!
For choosing to follow the Magus, add 1 point to
your Luck. The Magus! You turn back to the door,
only to see that he has gone. Quickly you run after
him, to observe him escaping along the Border River
in a boat rowed by Zombie slaves! Radu is bound for
the place ‘Gruul’ mentioned earlier: Hope’s End — a
desolate spot six kilometres away. Tum to 1g.

77-78

77
You carefully unlock and open the door. Something

rolls out and comes to a stop against your foot. You
look down and see that it is a vial of Restorative Fluid
You may drink the fluid at any time, except during a
battle; just cross the fluid off your Adventure Sheet, and
add 1 point to both your current and your Initial sKILL
scores.

You enter the room and close the door behind you,
lest anyone detect your intrusion. Once inside, how-
ever, you see that the room is pitch black. Worse, you
can hear someone — or something — shuffling through
the darkness towards you! Turn to 172.

78

The tour drags on and on: more monsters, more
legends, more ‘genuine’ artefacts — accompanied all the
while by the boasting of the tourist who's seen it all,
done it all, killed it allf Finally, however, the show
comes to an end, and Hollmann bows and makes a
dramatic exit, bustling off to lead the next group
around his waxworks. You rush after him and tell him
that you wish to buy the Angevin Shroud. He stops
dead in his tracks. ‘What, you mean, you actually want
to buy that worthless piece of tat? Well, my friend, it’s
practically yours!’

To find out how many Gold Pieces Hollmann wants
for the shroud, roll one die and add 1 to the number
rolled. If you are willing to meet his price, deduct the
Gold Pieces from your Adventure Sheet and turn to
198. But if you cannot or will not pay, then there is

79-80

nothing else to do here but leave. If the word ‘Cainam’
is written down on your Adventure Sheet, turn to 295;
otherwise, add 1 Hour and return to 200.

Skull in hand, the ancient warrior slips past you and
hurries out of the room. “You fool, he calls out over
his shoulder, ‘you spineless fool!’ You rush after him,
but when you reach the corridor you discover that he
has vanished! Just then, cracks start to appear in the
ceiling and the walls of the corridor begin to quake.
The tomb is collapsing! You hurry back up the stairs
and run clear of the underground crypt. When you are
safe, you look back and see that what was once the
ground above the tomb is now a sunken pit. If you
have noted the word ‘Daednuw’ on your Adventure
Sheet, turn to 315; otherwise, add 3 Hours and return
to 200.

80
Hooked to the sill of the window is a thin cord which
trails down to the street below. And at the end of this
cord is a Man-Ore assassin! Clad entirely in black, the
assassin drops safely to the ground and scampers
away. You are about to follow him when the cord
disintegrates before your very eyes! If you want to
keep the creature in sight, you will have to jump
down after him. If you wish to do this and you have
the Acrobatics Special Skill, tum to 377; otherwise, Test
your Skill. If you succeed, tum to 377, but if you fail,
turn to 252. Then again, if the idea of a twelve-metre
drop doesn’t appeal to you, turn to 149.

81-82

81

‘He who touches the chain while it binds another must
release and then destroy the other, or be bound in place
himself’ — this is the chain’s unwritten law, and it has
been broken. With incredible speed, the chain wraps
itself round your body then drags you, screaming, back
on to the prison chair. Argolis howls in darkest ecstasy:
‘Free! Free! Now know the horror of the pit! You
struggle in vain as the chair sinks down into the earth —
unlike Argolis, you will not survive being buried alive.

82
The thimblerigger is good, but not that good. You
make your choice the moment the thimbles are station-
ery. ‘Are you sure?’ asks Jubar, no longer smiling. In
reply, you tum the thimble over. Beneath it is the
Gold Piece. Jumping Kakhabadf he shouts, ‘I don’t
believe it’ But whether he believes it or not is irrel-
evant, A great cheer goes up among the onlookers,
and the old man is made to count out your winnings,
Then he grumpily declares the game over and storms
out of the tavern in a huff. Add the gold you have
won to your Adventure Sheet. Now, will you try to

83-85

have words with Eviron (turn to 387) or go and stand
on your own by the bar (turn to 361)?

83

As Radu outlines his programmes for world domina-
tion, you make your way across to two ornate columns
which support the balcony, some thirty metres above
the ground. ‘Look!’ cries a woman. ‘The Bounty
Hunter!’ It is Eviron from the Last Octopus, and she
has seen through your disguise. Shouts of hatred fill
the hall and four hundred weapons are drawn in anger.
If you have the Lock Picking Special Skill, turn to 208;
if you have the Climb Special Skill, turn to 249; but if
you have neither of these skills, turn to 122

84

Undeterred by the rising inferno, you hurry over to
the strongbox and are astonished to find it unlocked.
You open it and feast your eyes on a thousand Gold
Pieces! Unfortunately, you won't be able to spend a
single one of them, for when you hurry back out into
the corridor, dragging the box behind you, you find
that you have been trapped by the flames. The Gold
Pieces lie untamished while you shrivel and blacken!

85
It takes every bit of know-how you possess to pick up
the trail of the body-snatchers, but you track them to
a slum on Queen Street and kick down the door,
‘Bejamers!’ shouts Hogg in astonishment. ‘We've been
rumbled! Too right they have. You take back everything
they’ve stolen from you, plus 5 Gold Pieces of their

86

own. Hogg snivels, ‘Don’t hurt us, it was just a bit o’
fun. We can still help yer get the skull. We just need
time to make some arrangements.’ You advise Hogg
that if he isn’t at the cemetery in half an hour, his life
won't be worth living.

You yourself reach the tall gates of Meinster Cemetery
with time to spare. If you wish — and only if you have
the proper costume and Special Skill — you may
disguise yourself as a Vampire. If you do this, tum to
364; if not, turn to 38.

86

You race along unti] you come to Hook Lane, where
you find a crowd gathering; traders, fishermen and
other folk have all come to witness the Shocker’s latest
outrage. A cooper named Channing quickly takes
charge of the situation. ‘I've sent for the City Guard
but we must all look for the Shocker now, before it
vanishes. We'll split up into groups and comb the
entire docklands. We've lived in fear of that fiend for
too long!’ The people shout in agreement, and Chan-
ning sets about organizing them into search-parties.
You kneel down beside the Shocker’s latest victim: a
young man whose body is contorted in terror and
who wears a ring engraved with the Mark of the
Werewolf, ‘Leave the body for the guards! snaps
Channing. Then he sends the search-parties on their
way. Will you offer to help in the hunt (turn to 34§),
wait until Channing is busy and then search the body
(tum to 473), or do you prefer to head back to the
Octopus to continue your watch (turn to 253)?
87-88

87

Your enemies are one step ahead of you yet again —
the body of Silas Entador lies on the bare floorboards
of his airless attic room! You hurry over to examine
the body and discover two small punctures, wet with
some kind of venom or poison, in his neck, You also
see that his left hand is closed tightly round a scrap of
paper. As for the room itself: what few items of
furniture Silas possessed have been smashed or torn
apart — in the rubble lie 4 Gold Pieces which you may
take — and on his mantelpiece sits a sickly-scented
envelope addressed to you! Will you look at the paper
in Entador’s hand (turn to 167) or the sealed envelope
(turn to 379), or leave them both and make your way
back downstairs (tum to 268)?

88

You tum on Gruul and .,. he is transforming into
something green and repulsive! Roots sprout from his
hands, veins spread across his face in a pulsating web,
and his cries mutate into the ululations of a Mandrake!
These plant-like creatures can take on the likeness of
any human. They also have an intense fear of fie,
their only weakness, Wielding the torch, you leap in to
attack.

MANDRAKE SKILL 7 STAMINA 8

if you win, you set off in pursuit of Radu, whom you
see escaping along the Border River in a boat rowed
by Zombie slaves! He is going to the place ‘Gruul’
spoke of earlier: Hope’s End — a desolate spot six
kilometres away. Turn to 19.
89-91

89
As the water pours inside the carriage, you hammer
on the windows with your fists and kick out at both
the doors, but all your efforts are in vain. You can
only watch in horror as the water rises higher and
higher . . .

go
Pushing yet another Zombie out of the way, you
hurry into the enclosure and slam the gate behind you.
But the overseers are not done yet. They whip the
undead hordes into line, then send them after you. If
you have the Lock Picking Special Skill, turn to 325; if
you do not, turn to 153.

91
You slip past your foe and, using the eroded handholds,
skilfully ascend the obelisk. You hope that the predator
will not follow you, but it springs up after you and
rejoins the attack. Its metal skin is almost indestructible,
so any Attack Rounds you win serve only to save you
from injury (because of this, the creature is not given a
STAMINA score). On the other hand, if you lose a
round of combat, you must deduct 3 points from your
STAMINA because of the awful damage done by the
predator's wrist blades. If you have the Combat Special
Skill, you can turn the narrow arena of the obelisk to
your advantage: add 2 points to your sxiLL for the
duration of the battle. Now fight!

OBISIAN PREDATOR
After two rounds of combat, turn to 43.

SKILL 11

92-93

92
Outside, an eccentrically dressed woman steps forward
and grabs your sleeve. She peers at you through a
monocle. ‘Do you realize what you've done by going
m there?’ she grumbles. ‘We're both in danger now.
Still, together we'll have a greater chance of escaping
Gruul’s lackeys. Now come on!’ She points her walking
stick in the direction of Harbour Row. If you wish to
go with the strange woman, turn to 200. If, fearing she
may be yet another of Gmuul’s agents, you prefer to
attack her, tum to 392.

93
in time, you arrive at Weathern Mill, an impressive

tower which stands alone on a low hill, above a
shanty town on the southem edge of the city. Save for
the vanes creaking in the night-time breeze, the mill
seems quite dead. You step up to the front door and
tty the handle; the door opens, so you let yourself in.

Inside, the tower is a single open room, cluttered with
bales of hay, farming tools and mill machinery. A
ladder runs all the way up one wall, to a loft near the
roof of the mill, and near by is a closed hatch which

94-95

leads down into the cellar. The place is dimly lit by a
lantern up in the loft, but you can see no sign of
Conrad Zaar. CLANGGG/!! You spin on your heels
and see that a portcullis has descended across the
doorway — you are trapped! Nevertheless you are
determined to find out if Zaar is a traitor and, if so, for
whom, So will you begin your search here, on the
ground floor (turn to 39), up in the loft (turn to 201)
or down in the cellar (turn to 389)?

94

Hoping to shed some light on Bennet’s death, you go
through the assassin’s filthy robes, Your search tums
up 3 Gold Pieces and an Alchemical Sphere: once
thrown, this small glass ball will shatter, to release a
deadly cloud of corrosive mist which you yourself
may be unable to avoid, should you break the sphere
in a confined space. You may take both the gold and
the Alchemical Sphere (don’t forget to add them to
your Adventure Sheet). If you would like to search the
rest of the theatre, turn to 3. If you would rather leave
at once, turn to 383.

95

When you entered the temple, the door opened quite
freely; now, however, it remains firmly shut — even
though there is no sign of any lock. You try to kick
the door down, but the rotten wood is unyielding. It
would seem that you are trapped. You are wondering
what to do next when a strange fire blazes through
you — lose 2 STAMINA points. If you want to search
the temple, tum to 178. If you would rather study the
floating orbs, turn to 231.

96-98

You nip across to the tavern and gently open the door
— the place is empty! Suddenly, out of the comer of
your eye you notice a secret panel sliding shut in one
of the walls and a lantern bracket next to the panel
jerks upwards with a loud click. You go over to the
bracket and pull it down. In response, the panel slides
open again, revealing a long, dark corridor. You wait a
second, then creep forward. The panel closes behind
you. If you have the Sneak Special Skill, tum to 230. If
you do not, Test your Luck: if you are Lucky, turn to
230; if you are Unlucky, turn to 35.

97

Glad to be alive, you climb out of the vile pit and kick
Lugosh’s door down. Unfortunately, it would seem
that the bird has flown: Lugosh’s abode is completely
empty — it has all been a trap. Thus thwarted, you
must now continue the hunt elsewhere. If you haven't
been there already, will you go to Craven Asylum
(turn to 393), to the Last Octopus (turn to §7), or to
Malt Lane (turn to 207)?

98

You take your eyes off the rogues for just a second
and — SPANG!!! — Hogg hits you across the back of
vour head with his spade. You fall over into the grave
Roll one die and deduct the number rolled from your
STAMINA. Then roll three dice If the total rolled is
equal to or less than your current STAMINA score, turn
to 123; otherwise, turn to 338.

gg—i00

Three days pass — three days of constant travel, three
days of Gruul’s enmity, three days of hunger and
tiredness — but finally you come to the East Gate of
Royal Lendle, capital of Gallantaria. The City Guard
there rush out to welcome you; you fall into their
arms, exhausted,

Over the next month, Karam Gruul has to stand trial
before the Ruling Council and the leaders of Femphrey,
Brice and the Northlands. The list of Gruul’s crimes is
almost without end, and the verdict is unanimous:
guilty! Gruul is sentenced to imprisonment for the rest
of his unnatural life. People must never be allowed to
think that such evil acts will go unpunished, no matter
how long ago they occurred. As Gruul is led from the
Council Chamber, he glowers at you a final time. You
shrug. You cannot make good the wrongs he forced
you to commit as a Moonrunner, but you have stopped
him from ruining the lives of thousands of others. The
King of Gallantaria turns to you and asks you whether
you will be willing to lead an army back to Hope’s
End. You refuse: the Cabal is already beaten, the tower
is but an empty dungeon, and you have seen enough
bloodshed of late to last you a lifetime, That night,
you leave the city to rejoin your family in Narbury.
For you, the war is finally over.

100
You hurry back out into the corridor to see the bat
flying at full speed towards the north door. At first it
looks as if the creature must surely brain itself, but no:
IOI~1IG2

the door swings open and the bat flies straight through
You follow ... and find yourself in a room packed
with human skeletons! The door closes behind you,
and the bat escapes through an air shaft cut into the
ceiling. You try to open the strong door, but it is
locked, You have fallen into a simple trap, sprung by
the Devil Bat and compounded by your own curiosity!
Suddenly you hear footsteps outside in the corridor
Someone is opening the east door! If you have the
Lock Picking Special Skill, you may open the locked
door and give chase (turn to 238). If you have the
Climb Special Skill, turn to 226. If you have neither,
you are doomed to the slow death of starvation; your
adventure ends here.

Io1I

Without warning, the floor beneath your feet opens
and you pitch forward into a vat of alchemical reactant.
The trapdoor closes above your head, sealing you in
total darkness. But the reactant! What is it doing to
you? Your fingers, your hands, theyre bulging, expand-
ing, And your head! Unbelievably, you grow and
grow, until your body explodes!

102
Round and round the thimbles go. You are trying in
vain to follow Jubar’s dizzy hands when they come to
a sudden halt. The thimblerigger sits back and prompts,
‘Come on then, Which one is it?’

You tap one of the thimbles. He turns it over, to
. nothing. Cross any gold you lost off your

reveal

103-104

Adventure Sheet. ‘Never mind,’ grins Jubar encourag-
eely. ‘Give it another go. You might get lucky.” If
you wish to act on his dubious advice, return to 330
wd follow the instructions as before. Otherwise, you
‘ad best head back to the bar and either keep to
ourself (tur to 361) or try to talk to Eviron (turn to

387)

1034

The trenches and piles of rock offer you plenty of shelter
® you sneak forward, but eventually they give out and
you must brave the open plains, To your right, however,
=a fenced-off area where tools are stored. A gate at the
ar side of this enclosure opens by the foot of the tower.
There are no Zombies inside the enclosure, but there is
me standing right in front of you! If you have the
+exalpha, tum to go. If you do not, defend yourself.

ZOMBIE SLAVE

© you defeat your foe in three or fewer rounds of
combat, turn to go; but if you do not manage to
defeat it within this time, turn to 153.

SKILL 6 STAMINA 6

104
Wielding his dagger of bone, the Corpse Master urges
his rodent servants to swarm all over the two of you
as you fight, and soon you are weighed down beneath
countless warm bodies. Because of this horrid distrac-
tion, you must subtract 1 point from your SKILL score
for the duration of the battle. Moreover, the rats take
every opportunity to bite at you with their slavering
jaws; at the start of each Attack Round, deduct 1 point

10§-1lo7

from your STAMINA, Finally, the gaze of the Corps=
Master conveys a curse; each time you choose to Tes
your Luck during the battle, you must add 1 to the
number rolled. Now fight!

CORPSE MASTER SKILL Q STAMINA 73

If you beat your diabolical foe, turn to 175

105
When you reach the far wall, you observe that the
balcony stands some thirty metres above the grounc
on two ornate columns. How can you hope to reach
the Magus before the furious Cabal reaches you? I:
you have the Lock Picking Special Skill, turn to 208; i:
you have the Climb Special Skill, turn to 249; but i;
you have neither of these skills, turn to 122

106
Suddenly an unearthly voice echoes inside your heac
‘Neeeeed foooood ... neeeeed foooood.’ The Skull o:
Mora Tao is hungry again! To satisfy the accursec
artefect, you will have to take it out of your pack and let iz
suck some of your spirit. If you do not accede to the skull’s
demands, turn to 50. If you carry out the vile operation
upen your own life-blood, deduct 3 points from you:

STAMINA. Then, if you have the Climb Special Skill, turp

to 198. Otherwise, Test your Skill, adding 2 to yourroll IF

you succeed, turn to 198; if you fail, turn to 314

107
You raise a supplicatory hand and beg Furneaux tc
listen to your tale. But the guards continue advancing

108

towards you. So far as they can see, events are only
too obvious, Worse, Bennet’s words return to haunt
you; not one of the guards knows who you are or
why you are here. To them, you can only be an
intruder. If you have the Con Special Skill, turn to 360;
if you do not, turn to 223

108

Oblivious to the noises of the busy wharf, you drift
off into a deep sleep; restore up to 4 STAMINA points,
You wake up early in the afternoon — just in time to
observe a sinister figure leaving the Last Octopus and
walking hurriedly away. The stranger wears a grey-
hooded cloak, the back of which is embroidered with
the Mark of the Werewolft If you wish to follow the
hooded figure, turn to 139. If not, is the word ‘Cainam’
written on your Adventure Sheef? If it is, turn to 257;
otherwise, turn to 277
Iog—1i0

I
Kiennar is adamant: ‘Either pay, or get out.’ If you
have the Sleight of Hand Special Skill and the Skull of
Mora Tao, turn to 288; if you have Sleight of Hand but
do not have the skull, turn to 235. If you do not have
this Special Skill at all. you may either try to take the
blood by force (turn to 367), or simply leave the shop
If you leave, add 1 Hour and return to 200.

ba { Ye
Af : ' P
wel ~ UL
a ———,

a »

f

qs
4

1190

You quickly set about your unwholesome business
and have no trouble finding the wooden hand; it is
strapped securely to the wrist of one of the dead men.
You untie the leather straps and tuck the hand away in
your backpack. According to Van Heldenghast, you
must now take it to Mawn Pretoragus for some kind
of magical treatment. But time is short; perhaps the
hand itself will suffice to fend off Gruul’s magic. If you
want to go to the Necromancer’s abode, turn to 344.
If you would rather get on with collecting the other
Wards, add 1 Hour and return to 200.

III-113

III
Groaning with the exertion, you push one of the
heavy bundles of tightly packed hay over the top of
the ladder. The bale falls and hits Conrad squarely on
the head and shoulders but he doesn’t even falter in
his menacing ascent. You must act before your grow-
ing panic overwhelms you. Will you:

Throw a lantern down on to his head? Turn to 214

Strike at him with a pitchfork? Turn to 4

Stand your ground and fight when
he reaches you?

Try to escape?

Turn to 350
Turn to 165

112
You rush in to the attack, but the Obisian Predator
leaps aside and reaches out for you with its strong
hands. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 138. If
you are Unlucky, turn to 182.

113
Mister Hogg lifts his spade in a menacing fashion,
shakes his head and murmurs, ‘Now I do not t’ink yer
wanted to say that.’ He steps forward, while Mister
Kilmarney picks up his spade and runs round behind
you. You must fight them both at the same time:

SKILL STAMINA
MISTER HOGG 6 9
MISTER KILMARNEY 7 sae)

After two rounds of combat, turn to 285.
f

r 4 7

& TTY bn Pe Yes 4d iN
i i i 4)

et gs |

xy
’
“at
2

”

IX4-I1§

114
The gate opens into a vast hall, where you discover
Radu addressing the entire Cabal! The Magus is speak-
ing from a high balcony at the far end of the chamber,
sO no one notices you listening to his words at the
back of the hall. “You are here to witness the fruition
of the Grand Design. Using the mystic art of Notura,
our master has created the Ethereal Projector,’ He
indicates a bizarre contraption by his side, ‘With
this, we can rain death on any area we choose And
we will start straight away by killing every living
being in Royal Lendle” The Cabal roars its approval
You must find some way to stop Radu before he
can activate the Ethereal Projector! If you are dis-
guised as either an Orc rogue or a Zombie, turn
to 83; if you have an Alchemical Sphere, turn to
304; but if none of these situations apply to you, tum

tO 237

115
Drawing your sword, you hurry round to the front of
the carriage and strike out! The driver offers no resist-
ance, and it is only when his ‘body’ falls to the ground
that you begin to understand, For there, beneath the
black hat and cape, is the unmoving form of a manne-
quin, a straw and sack-cloth dummy in the shape of a
man! You are still reeling with shock when the carri-
age sets off once more. Will you take the driver's
seat and grab the reins {turn to 211), quickly climb
inside (turn to 137), or leave the mysterious carriage
alone and head back in pursuit of the assassin (turn to

328)?
116-117

116
Defiantly you cry out, ‘You'll never take me alive’
Then you plunge the Stage Knife into your chest and
fall to the floor in a torrent of fake blood.

Your deception succeeds! The Imperator has two men
carry you back up to the tavern. As they go, one of
the men whispers, ‘The Imperator will speak of this
farce to the Secret Chiefs.’

‘Let hert’ hisses the other. ‘You wouldn’t catch me
going to Penkhull, not with what’s happening there.
They say, all you have to do is ring the bell. Well, let
them ring it! I'll stay in Blackhaven, thanks.’

Confident that no one is about, the men haul you out
of the tavern and dump your body in an alley. You
wait until they are gone, then get up. Thanks to the
loose-lipped Rosichalcians, you now know that you
must go to the village of Penkhull; turn to 369.

117
Beyond the door is an open, grassy plot where most

of the inmates end their days: the asylum graveyard.
Like everything else you have seen here, the graveyard
is in a dreadful state. Worse still, hovering over one of
the graves is a ghost! Sensing that the ghost means
you no harm, you stand fast and listen as it moans
in a voice which chills you to the marrow: ‘Avennnge
the deaaad ... freee the insaaane.’ Then it is gone,
vanished. Regain z point of Luck for this fateful
encounter.

118119

If you already know where the inmates are, you may
go back and free them without further ado (make a
note that you have freed them on your Adventure
Sheet). Then, whether you free them or not, you must
return to the hall and choose a door you have not
opened before. Will you go through Big Laffs (turn to
220), Nosh (turn to 275), Big Trubbull (turn to 287), or
Wipefeet (turn to 58)?

118

‘Your wish is my command,’ Gruul chuckles. Then he
removes the first of the two panels. You scream as the
rats scamper up on to your chest. Deduct 3 points
from your STAMINA. Gruul turns to his aide. ‘Radu,
note the fool’s stubborn refusal to accept reality’ Then
he turns to you once more, his eyes aglow with cruel
satisfaction. ‘Will you show Radu that I have erred in
my observations (turn to 234), or must ] remove the
final panel (turn to 129)?’

IIg
You are almost upon the figure when it explodes in a
fury of sparks. The silken gown and mask burn away,
to reveal a metal dummy beneath! If you used the
Combat Special Skill, your instincts warn you to drop
short of the dummy entirely. If you used the Acrobatics
Special Skill, you realize the nature of the trap too late,
and now you can only hope to twist out of the
figure’s destructive reach; roll one die and deduct that
many points from your STAMINA. If you were Lucky,
you crash into the effigy, then fall back on to the
ground; roll two dice and deduct that many points
120

from your STAMINA. Karam Gruul's evil voice screeches
out through the dummy’s unmoving lips: ‘Die, fool,
Dieeee!’ Shaken by this astonishing attempt on your
life, you hurry back out of the alley; turn to 399.

120
Once they see that you have no intention of moving,
the thugs close in on you: then they rough you up
ideduct 2 points from your stamina), steal your gold
(cross any gold you have off your Adoenture Sheet),
and sling you out of the alehouse.

[21-122

An oddly dressed woman hurries up to you and helps
you to your feet. She examines you through a monocle.
‘Hmmm, no harm done. Well, come on, fool. More of
the Cabal will already be on their way. We'll have to
escape together.’ She points her walking stick in the
direction of Harbour Row. Will you go with her (turn
to 200) or attack her, before she can lead you into any
possible trap (turn to 392)?

121

As you turn tail and run, the Corpse Master cries,
Fly, children! Swarm red-run fleshcarrier!’ The rats
sweep down from the stage and come, gnashing, at
your heels. Roll one die to find out how many rats
succeed in biting you before you reach safety outside
the theatre: for every rat bite you sustain, deduct 2
points from your STAMINA. Also, note down the word
‘Retsam’ on your Adventure Sheet. Once outside the
Rohmer, you run and keep on running, vowing never
to return to the evil phantoms lair.

Now you musf begin your manhunt. So where will
you go first: to Craven Asylum (turn to 393), to the
Last Octopus (turn to §7), to Malt Lane (turn to 207),
or, if you have reason to go there, to Priestsgate or
Weathern Mill?

122
Too latet Your enemies are upon you! The Cabal
members pick you up and carry you to the balcony,
where you are granted the dubious privilege of becom-
ing the first victim of the Ethereal Projector.
123

123
The body-snatchers realize that you're still ready to
put up a fight, so they make a run for it, You consider
giving chase but stop when you notice a stone hatch
at the bottom of the grave — the rogues had finished
the job! The hatch opens on to a descending stairway,
and a reek of decay wafts up from the tomb to meet
you; however, you ignore it and follow the steps
down to a short corridor. Light from the open grave
reveals that the corridor ends at three doors, A draught
blows under the north door, while a quiet squeaking
sound comes from behind the west door, Which door
will you open:

The north door? Turn to 386
The east door? Turn to 141
The west door? Turn to 17

124-126

124

Having regrettably dispatched Furneaux and his men,
you hurry back down the spiral staircase and out of
the tower. Now, with the City Guard seeking to arrest
you, you are truly on your own. Outside the tower,
you see no sign of any assassin, so you decide to
begin your manhunt immediately. It being so late, the
cobblestoned streets of the city are deathly still. Where
will you go first: to Craven Asylum (turn to 393), to
the Last Octopus {turn to 23) or to Malt Lane (turn to
207), or, if you have reason to go there, to Priestsgate
or Weathern Mill?

125

There is nothing to be found in the temple itself, but
you do discover a secret door near where Radu van-
ished in his puff of smoke — so much for the power of
the Magus! The door opens on to a muddy path at the
rear of the temple. Footprints in the mud lead you
along the path to the cobblestones of nearby Berman
Street, where the prints become much harder to see, If
you have the Tracking Special Skill and wish to follow
the trail, turn to 35. If you do not have this Special
Skill you can do nothing but return to the Last
Octopus: if the word ‘Cainam’ is written on your
Adventure Sheet, turn to 251; otherwise, turn to 277.

126
Breaking off from the cut and thrust of combat, the
woman raises an imploring hand. ‘Don’t be a fool!’ she
barks. ‘t quite understand your fears, but I assure you

— ee
127

that I have nothing whatsoever to do with the Cabal
Indeed, they fear me more than they fear you. Now
let’s put an end to this stuff and nonsense before it
gets out of hand!’

If you wish to do as she says and go with her in the
direction of Harbour Row, turn to 200. If you would
rather press home your attack, turn to 282

127

Wary of the hungry. maggots that are writhing all
over Argolis, you drag her decayed bulk to the edge
of the hellish pit, then push her over. Almost immedi-
ately, clouds of smoke billow up into the room and
the entire floor quakes as the pit grinds shut. The
Demothrax is no more

Add the Chain of Argolis to your Adventure Sheet At
the start of any battle, you may use the chain to bind
any one opponent other than Gruul; just cross the
chain off your Adventure Sheet and continue as if you
had won the battle Now, add 2 Hours and return to
200

128-129

128
You stammer nervously, ‘I, er, was wondering if you
wanted anything doing, sir.’

Crabb jurnps to his feet and shouts, ‘Guards!’ Before
you can do anything, four Troll wardens rush in and
seize you. They drag you away and lock you inside a
pitch-black room, At first you think you are alone, but
then you hear the sound of ungainly footsteps drag-
ging towards you; turn to 172

129
Gritting your teeth, you snarl, “You fiend! I’m surprised
you're not in here, feeding alongside your kin.’

Gruul stiffens noticeably. ‘Radu!’ he barks. “The Bounty
Hunter seeks death Show the fool where to find it!
The Secret Chiefs are expected in the village” The
Magus removes the final panel, then both he and his
master leave the room. The next thing you see is the
slavering jaws of a rat, scurrying towards your face. If
you have the Sleight of Hand Special Skill, turn to £81,
Otherwise, there is no escape from Gruul's evil death-
trap, Your adventure ends here,

130-131

130
inside, you join a guided tour of the exhibits, conducted
oy Gustav Hollmann himself. Sadly, the proprietor
proves to be something of a disappointment: his patter
isn’t up to much. His exhibits, though liberally daubed
with red paint, have all seen better days, too, Still,
everyone cise seems happy. One tourist in particular is
keen to impress his lady: ‘See that vampire? Nothing!
Me, I'd just shove a pair of corks on his fangs.’

Then you come to the Angevin Shroud. This white
cloth hangs down from the top of a guillotine some
six metres tall. Even Hollmann seems unimpressed
with this exhibit, as he gives a brief history: ‘A once-
normal shroud — used to wrap the beheaded body of a
Necrophage, at the fallen city of Angevin — now
possessed of miraculous powers. Let us move on,’ Will
you follow Hollmann and attempt to buy the shroud
from him, once the tour is completed (turn to 78), or
hang back and try to steal the shroud (turn to 154)?

141
You follow the man into a deserted street, then you
catch up with him, slam him against a wall, and
demand that he tell you everything he knows about
the Cabal. ‘Don’t hurt me,’ he snivels. ‘The leader is
going to attend a meeting at the Last Octopus, three
hours from now. Go any sooner and they'll know
They'll call it off, and the leader won't show. The .. .’
He looks over your shoulder. Two City Guards are
strolling along the street towards you. The man calls
out, ‘A fine evening, gentlemen!’ Then he slips out of
132-134

your grasp and rushes to join them, Curses! You can
only look on as the Cabal member is escorted to
safety. It is clear now that you must return to the Last
Octopus, but will you go at once (turn to 362), or in
three hours’ time (turn to 8)?

132
You cannot help but notice the mass of fresh hoofprints
which lead up to and through the left-hand gate; this
is the way the Cabal must have gone. If you wish to
follow them, turn to 514. If you would rather enter the
gate on the right, turn to 199.

133

A daring plan springs into your mind. Experience has
taught you that it is often wiser to turn an enemy’s
evil against himself, so you declare that you have been
sent by the Cabal to watch over the Corpse Master,
You also tell him that Guard Marshal Bennet still lives,
and that both you and the dead Man-Ore worked for
Karam Gruul alone. You continue: ‘Gruul has come to
fear you so much that he has his men tell you lies
while he desperately seeks a way to destroy you’

‘Dust Corpse Master?’ growls the fiend. Like all servants
of Chaos, he is only too willing to believe in the back-
stab of betrayal; yet he is also no fool. If you have the
Con Special Skill, turn to §1; if not, turn to 225.

134
Is it because you distrust Mawn Pretoragus that you
follow him through the Door Beyond? If so, then your

135~136

trust is misplaced, for his warning was well-meant. He
sought to protect your mortal mind from the unimagi-
nable horrors of that other-wordly dimension which is
reached through the portal and where he must perform
his dark rites. The moment you enter the Necrotic
Wilderness of Q’yann, your mind snaps and you
become irrevocably insane

135
Someone taps you on the shoulder. You tum and see

that it is a Dark ENF — will the wonders of this city
never cease? These creatures are usually to be found in
remote underground cities. They hate all surface dwell-
ers; yet one of them stands here before you, in a
common alehouse. The gaunt figure, with his long hair
and skin like midnight, is clad in armour engraved
with Elvish nines and a long dagger hangs by his side.
Uncaring who should hear him, he says, ‘Let me buy
you a drink, We must talk about Karam Gruul.’ Will
you:

Talk to him? Tur to 1§7
Ask to be left alone? Tum to 192
Attack him? Tum to 212

136
The omnipotent Vampire Lord is hungry for blood
and has no time to waste on foolish combat, He fixes
you with his wolf-like eyes and seeks to enthral
you with a simple bewitchment. Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, turn to 187, If you are Unlucky, turn to
209,

7 :
137

137
No sooner are you inside the dark and empty cabin
than the door slams shut behind you, and a disembod-
ied voice speaks gloatingly. ‘I hope you are enjoying
the short excursion I have arranged for you. I had
expected more of Bennet’s choice. It is a pity that the
game must end so soon. Farewell, brave fool.’

Your bumpy, frantic journey comes to a sudden end
with a splashing of water: the carriage has ploughed
straight into a deep river! You rush from one door to
the other, but neither will open, and the dark windows

138-139

are indestructible. One of the windows can be lowered
a short way — but that only admits torrents of dirty
water, Unless you can find a way out of the cabin, you
will surely drown! If you have the Sleight of Hand
Special Skill, turn to 180; if not, turn to 89

138

You half dodge and half fall out of the Obisian
Predator’s grasp; as the creature has now practically
tallen over you, you have no choice now but to fight
tt off. If your opponent's wrist blades catch you, they
will cause devastating injury, so each time you lose an
Attack Round you must deduct 3 points from your
STAMINA, Now defend yourself:

OBISJIAN PREDATOR SKILL 121i STAMINA 10

If you win one Attack Round, turn to 299.

139

The hooded figure leads you through the maddening
crowds of Muddslamp Fishmarket, to a disused temple
within sight of Angmellyn Bridge. The windows of
the small temple are all bricked up, but the sole
entrance — a rickety wooden door — seems to be open,
The cloaked stranger pushes the door aside and enters,
You are about to follow suit when you feel a prickling
sensation on the back of your neck. If you still wish to
enter the temple, turn to 74, Otherwise you must
retum to the Last Octopus: if the word ‘Cainam’ is
written on your Adventure Sheet, turn to 2§1; if it is
not, turn to 277.

—
Iqo-141

140
No sooner do you touch the rungs than they pull
loose from the wall and fall with a splash into the
water. You check the other rungs, and you discover
that all the lower ones have been rigged to do the
same. Those above the wooden beam, however, look
quite sate. If you have the Clin Special Skill, turn to
256. If you do not, you may either pull yourself up on
to the beam, so thal you can reach the higher cungs
(tur te 391), or do nothing and wait while the water
continues to pour in {turn to 170)

141
You enter a large vault to find the Skull of Mora Tao,
resting on a black marble pedestal. You shiver. The
horned skull has teeth like the edge of a saw, its
bottom jaw is missing and its eye-sockets are the very
vision of death You dread to think what manner of
creature the skull must once have been part of! Roll
four dice and add the numbers rolled together. If the
total is equal to or less than your current sTAMINA
score, turn to r7z. If the total is higher than your
current STAMINA Score, turn to 196.

142-143

142
the assembly is shocked by your audacity, but the
tmperator merely smiles. ‘Know then, brave Adept,
chat the Secret Chiefs are to be found at the village of
Penkhu!l Toll the bell and take this token to Kriswell
che Moneylender.” She hands you a small figurine: an
amethyst icon of Baphet-as-Werewolf! (Add the icon
<o your Adventure Sheet.) “Now go, she says “The
secret Chiefs await you.’

You thank the Imperator, then hurry back up to the
cavern. For deceiving the Rosichalcians, add 1 point to
your tucx. The moon lights your way as you head
north out of the city; turn to 369.

143

Heeding your uncanny instincts, you stop short of the
creeping mist and watch in horror as it melts the road
in front of your feet! You step backwards, away from
the outward-spreading fumes which are dissolving
everything in their path. Only the twisted genius
of Karam Gruul could have fashioned such an evil
device!

When the mist finally clears, the assassin is gone. If
you have the Tracking Special Skill, turn to 30r. If not,
you must give up the chase and, despite the lateness
of the hour, begin your manhunt. Will you begin your
investigations at Craven Asylum (turn to 393), the
Last Octopus (turn to 23), Malt Lane (turn to 207), or,
if you have reason to go there, at Priestsgate or
Weathern Mill?

144-145

144
With only a handful of followers remaining, you stifle
an urge to panic and set off along the right-hand side
of the tunnel, You shudder — the unnatural fear is
growing stronger by the second. ‘Look!’ cries a woman,
She raises her flickering torch and you see the Shocker
haunting the very darkness about you. The creature is
a thing beyond comprehension, perceivable only as a
sentient nightmare. But that eye! That eye!

Roll one die and add 1 The total rolled equals the
number of shocks to assail your party. Each shock
frightens one of your companions to death, If any
shocks remain, they cause you to lose 1 point of Luck
and 3 points of STAMINA per shock. If you are still
alive, you must fight. Add 1 point to your sKILL score
for each surviving companion, for the duration of the
battle

THE SHOCKER SKILL 9 STAMINA 13

If you win, turn to 156.

145
You try to word your reply most carefully, but when
you finish the landlady snarls, ‘I know what your
game is. You and your snooping — get out of here!
You hear the scraping of chairs and turn to see that all
the other patrons have got to their feet, their weapons
held ready. Will you stay right where you are and
press Eviron further (tum to 120), or do as she says
and beat a hasty retreat out of the tavern (turn to

92)?

146-148

146

Just when you least expect it, the Xen-Viper retracts
her fangs and pleads with you in a sibilant, reptilian
voice, ‘Mercccy, warm-blooded one. Ssspare me and I
can sssave your life.’ You try to force her to explain
what she means, but she is resolute: ‘Only if you
promissse me my freedom’ Will you promise not to
harm the Xen-Viper, in return for her information (turn
to 297), or finish her off while her guard is lowered
(turn to 239)?

147

‘Thank you,’ smiles Gruul. ‘Now that I know you are a
Moonrunner, I can trigger a hypnotic implant stored
deep inside your mind. It will restore you to your
bestial form.’ No! This cannot be! This ... your will is
not your will, your thoughts are not your thoughts,
and only when it is too late do you realize that this is
enchantment, You revert to the horrible form of a
Moonrunner and escort Karam Gruul back to the
Tower of Inquisition. Obeying his commands, it is you
who turns the Ethereal Projector on Royal Lendle.
Gruul laughs — your failure is complete.

148
You stroll over to the two Man-Ores and distract their
attention from the poor beggar — who wastes no time in
slipping off down an alley. ‘Oi! ‘oo d’yer fink yoo flamin’
are?’ barks one of the Provosts. Both of them have been
angered by you putting an end to their cruel sport, so
your story had better be a good one. If you have the
Con Special Skill, tum to 359; if you do not, turn to 26.

149

149
Before you have time to do anything else, three City
Guards burst into the room, their swords drawn. ‘Zaar’s
warming has come too late,’ shouts Guard Captain
Furneaux, ‘The assassin is here before us!’

Warning? Assassin? Here? It is with a sinking feeling
that you realize you have been framed! The guards
advance towards you, blocking off the doorway, but
the open window is just over your shoulder. Will you:

Attack the guards? Turn to 223
Try to tell Furneaux whai really
happened here? Tum to 107
Escape through the window? Turn to 278
‘ ag ee ‘fv
yi age
<— a) r an In ; . wits
/ iy! Xl ee ‘ h é . ;
y d : / te, ee &
~ » 4 oh ,

yy

150-152

150

You reach out for one of the tuming vanes = and find
yourself clutching at thin air! You bounce once. twice
off the sails, before crashing, with bone-breaking force
to the ground. Roll one die, add 6 to the number
rolled, and deduct that many points from your
STAMINA. If you are still alive, regain 1 Luck point for
your narrow escape. Also, make a note of the word
‘Cainam’ on your Adventure Sheet. Holding your ribs,
you stagger away from the mill, mere seconds before
it collapses. You leave the blazing ruin, to continue
your hunt for Karam Gruul. If you haven't done so
already, will you now go to Craven Asylum (turn to
393). to the Last Octopus (turn to $7) or to Malt Lane
(tum to 207)7

151

Though you give a good account of yourself, you are
hopelessly outnumbered and are-soon overpowered.
Four men grab your arms while a fifth tears your tunic
open. A sixth man walks forward, holding a stake! You
protest your innocence, but it's to no avail. Mister
Hogg watches over the proceedings, ‘Yer'd better look
away, Mister Kilmarney. This isn’t goin’ to be a pretty
sight. No, not very pleasant at all. Ooooo, | felt that

152
You curtly inform Crabb that you would prefer to see
Ouspenskaya right away, “But of course,’ he replies
obsequiously, ‘However, before you see her, you must
understand that she is quite insane. Her head iy filled
with all sorts of paranoid delusions and fantasies

1§3

Unfortunately I am too busy to accompany you, but if
you follow the “Nosh” signs you should find her
without any problem,’

Relieved at being able to see Ouspenskaya alone, you
thank the deputy, then leave his office. You walk into
a hall, off which lead five doors. On each of these
doors is a crude sign painted by an Orcish hand,
Which door will you open:

Big, Laffs? Turn to 220
Nosh? Turn to 27§
Big Trubbull? Turn to 287
Fat Maggots? Turn to 117
Wipefeet {you have just come
through here)? Turn to 58
153

Before you can take another step, a number of Zom-
bies grab you and hold you while their overseer
knocks you unconscious. You awaken to find yourself
dangling at the end of a rope, over a spike-filled pit!
Rope has also been used to tie your hands and feet
together. Wait a minute ... what’s that smell? Smoke!
You look up — and see that the rope from which you
are dangling over the pit is on fire! Unless you have
the Sleight of Hand Special Skill, Tes! your Luck twice,
If you are Unlucky in either test, the rope snaps and
you drop and die upon the spikes. But if you are
Lucky in both tests, or if you have the Sleight of Hand
Special Skill you miraculously untie your bonds and
leave the torture chamber through a large gate. Turn

to 114.

Fe ——™
154-156

154

Hollmann leads the sightseers on to the next gory
tableau, while you remain surreptitiously in the shad-
ows, As the party shuffles out of sight, you begin to
contemplate a rather difficult climb up the guillotine. |{
you have the Skull of Mora Tao, tum to 106. If you
do not, but you do have the Climb Special Skill, tum
to 198. If you do not have this Special Skill, Test your
Skill, adding a to your roll. If you succeed, tum to
198; if you fail, turn to 314.

15§
The assassin is about to reach into his tunic, doubtless

for some diabolical weapon, when you dive forward
and knock him to the ground. You must press the
attack while your formidable foe is empty-handed.

MAN-ORC ASSASSIN SKILL 9

If you defeat this veteran killer, tum to 281

STAMINA 7

156

Dazed, you stagger away from the dissolving horror of
the Shocker and try to recover some of your shattered
wits. But your fascination with the monstrous eye is
undeniable; you peer into its watery depths and behold a
series of fleeting images: memories! Memories of an
abominable spawning, of Karam Gruul’s Notura ritual
gone wrong; memories of an escape to Blackhaven;
memories of a hellish reign within the sewers; and,
more than all this, memories of Gruul's headquarters!
The Hand of Death is to be found at that place called
Hope’s End!

157

This is the break you have been hoping for. Confused
and terrified, you clamber up out of the sewers and
begin your fleet-footed journey north; restore 1 LUCK
point and turn to rg.

157

Suddenly the Dark Elf steps behind you and loops a
rope round your neck. He is trying to strangle you!
You quickly shove your hand inside the cord to stop it
from throttling you. Though you save your life in this
way, the rope cuts into your hand; deduct 2 points
from your STAMINA. Your first concern in this deadly
combat is to escape the tightening cord. Test your Skill
If you succeed, turn to 274; if you fail, turn to 177

1§8-160

158
vust when you thought you had given the Fogwalkers

“ne slip, one of them steps out of the shadows to
confront you.

>OGWALKER SKILL ¥ STAMINA &

= you win, roll one dic. if you roll a 6, you are
tected with the plague and your quest ends here. If
rou survive, you find that the door j« locked. If you
have a Red Key or the Loct Picking Special Skill, turn
' 65. If you do not. will you tun to the bonfire (turn
*? 21), to the belltower (turn to 397). to the door

with the red cross (turn to 48), or to the door beneath
the wooden sign (bum to 286)?

$y

P satistied that you are alone, you follow Professor Van

»\. aa Heldenghast’s advice and set to studying the slab that
ee % WH ee 5 me
owns vegan pile HL bears the Mask of Belthegor, (Take 3 look at the

", m. “UO WE wardi £9 & illustration Opposite this paragraph.) The runes an the

fil! , woe Ce a ann | sone are a complete mystery = yet one which you

f i | must solve if you are to claim Belthegor's Gif. If you
Nf sit ye ye , ?” can decipher the ancient runes, you will know where
wy) i iti Belt ' 2. he ‘o turn to next. But if you, like <o many others before
Bee Tis Ma TAS Sse ah oe) you, are not up to the task you may either try to

Wh BRN Wee x”) TAN ite remove the mask by force (tum to 31), go to meet
your unknown contact al Sanger’s Beacon (turn to
380) or simply abandon this part of your quest by
adding 2 Hours and returning to 200.

160
Spurned, the devious skull becomes silent in your

161

mind ,.. but not in your ears. It emits a shriek so
deafening that the tranquillity of the square is shattered
into hundreds of tiny pieces! But the shrieking lasts
only as long as is necessary to draw the Provosts’
attention to you. This is not very long at all, ‘Oi! Get
over ‘ere, yer noisy slob!’ You no longer stand any
chance of being able to reach the gallows unnoticed
Will you attack the Provosts now (turn to 26), try to
bribe them (turn to 14), or seek to fool them (tum to
148)?

161

‘Gah!’ Hogg cries, dragging Kilmarney to his feet
‘Our employer is possessed of the divil!’ You tell the
panic-stricken rogues to take you to the skull, and
they lead you to an unmarked grave which they then
praceed to dig up. At the bottom of the grave is a
stone hatch! You lift the hatch and see a stairway
descending into the darkness. While you are distracted,
the body-snatchers turn tail and flee — make a note of
the word ‘Daednu’ on your Adventure Sheet

You remove your vampire costume and step down
into the musty atmosphere of the underground tomb
Light from the open grave enables you to follow a
short corridor which ends at three doors. A draught
blows under the north door, while a faint squeaking
noise comes from behind the one to the west. Which
door will you go through:

The north door?
The east door?
The west door?

Turn to 386
Turn to 141
Turn to 17

162-163

162
A poison-tipped needle springs out of the door-handle
and stabs your thumb. Do you have a bottle of Poison
Antidote? If you do, turn to 193; if you don’t, turn to

47

a
OG

/

163

The driver neither moves nor speaks as the carriage
rolls into Blackhaven’s infamous docklands — he cer-
tainly doesn’t notice you crouched behind him. Soon
the Border River is in sight. Indeed, if the vehicle’s
terrific speed is anything to go by, the Border River
may well be your destination! Will you continue to
wait (tum to 346), attack the driver (turn to 266),
climb down and into the carriage (turn to 137), or
drop off the vehicle and head back to the Guard
Post, in the vague hope of finding the assassin (turn to
328)?
164-166

164
Karam Gruul experiments in the darkest alchemies as
part of his delving into the mystic art of Notura. One
such experiment involves the creation of Ashvaal, a
poisonous sludge which blights the desert for kilo-
metres around. You leap into the pool of Ashvaal and
are sucked down to a stagnant doom!

165
If any part of the windmill has caught fre, turn to 370;
otherwise, turn to 350.

166

You quickly learn that the way to escape the net is not
to struggle against it but to move slowly with it as it
tightens, using the increasing rigidity of the wire to
climb up and out through the open neck. But you
don’t have much time to congratulate yourself upon
your ingenuity before you hear a scream echoing from
deep within the building. As the scream dies, the
terrifying sound of a pipe organ begins, Will you

167

follow the evil dirge to its source (turn to 260), or turn
and run straight out of the theatre (turn to 383)?

167
You cautiously remove the crumpled note from the
dead man’s hand. On it are some words, obviously
scribbled by Entador in his last moments: he wrote the
words with his fingertip, using his own blood as ink!
The note reads: ‘Rosy Chalice Last Octopus’. You
have forged another puzzling link in the chain which
may well lead to the sinister Karam Gruul. Now, will
168~169

you open the letter addressed to you (tum to 379).
or leave it where it is and head downstairs (turn to
268)?

168
You have no trouble convincing the landlady that you
are an important Brician noble of ancient stock, and
that you have an interest in contacting the Eternal
Fraternity of the Rosy Chalice with a view to joining
its august and most secret ranks. What you don’t tell
her is that you suspect the fraternity of being a front
for the Cabal of the Werewolf. She places a small
brooch in your hand: it depicts a golden chalice resting
on a stylized rose of red enamel. Bring this token as
proof,’ she whispers. ‘Here. Tonight. Midnight. Now
you'd better leave.” Add the Rosy Chalice brooch to
your Adventure Sheet. Pleased at the success of your
deception, you nod your thanks and leave; turn to

gz

169

Gruul is trying to hypnotize you! But your will is too
strong. You strike him and warn him not to try it
again. Perhaps he won't have to — his extra weight is
slowing you down, and the remnants of the Cabal
have rallied and are coming after you. But wait! Just
over the next rise you encounter a Gallantarian patrol,
Their captain rides forward to greet you. ‘We came to
escort you back to Royal Lendle, but we had better
make a stand against the Cabal here and now. There’s
around thirty of them and only ten of us. Will you
stay and help?’

;

170-171

‘Yes,’ mocks Gruul, ‘will you waste time here, playing
soldiers with your friends (tum to 388), or will you
desert them, so as to get me to Royal Lendle that little
bit sooner (turn to 99)?’

170
As the water rises, you relax and lie back, allowing
yourself to be buoyed upwards and occasionally rais-
ing your head to snatch a mouthful of air. All goes
well until two of the bodies snare your Jegs and drag
you down, You must free yourself from the corpses’
unfeeling grasp before your {ungs fill with water. Roll
four dice and add all the numbers rolled together. If
their total is higher than your current STAMINA Score,
you become the thirteenth body in the pit! If the total
is less than or equal to your current STAMINA score,
you manage to free yourself without harm and float up to
the top of the pit. The trapdoor is unlocked, so you push it
open and ease yourself through; turn to 97.

17
You step forward and pick up the skull, but just as you
turn and are about to leave the vault you find your
way barred by an ageing warrior! ‘Give me the skull)’
he wheezes hysterically. ‘I must have it. J built this
tomb to protect it, and I have returned every hundred
years to feed it, in return for life. If I am to stay alive, I
must have the skull now!”

If you give the skull to the ancient warrior, turn to 79;
but if you refuse, turn to 216

f
‘
3
é
’
;
;
“
‘
¢
;
ve
’

172-173

172

The dragging feet come ever closer — when suddenly
there is light. A man carrying a lantern has entered from
an adjacent room. ‘Welcome to my laboratory,’ he
proclaims. ‘I hope you have wiped your feet.’ You can
now see that you are indeed inside a vast laboratory. ‘I
am the director of Craven Asylum, and this . ..” he lifts
the lantern to illuminate the figure you heard in the
darkness, ‘is my mother!’ His ‘mother’ is a bizarre hulk of a
creature, a hotch-potch composed of various beings. The
fanatical director looks on with pride: ‘My mother,
Doktor Kauderwelsch, created life, and they destroyed
her for it, 1 removed her brain and came here. Her gold I
used to buy the institute, and her notes to build her a new
body made from bits and pieces of the inmates. Though
people know me by the name of Doktor Welsch, Iam Son
of Kauderwelsch! And now [ shall move my mother’s
brain into your fine body,’ The monster shambles step by
sluggish step towards you. If you have freed the inmates
of the asylum, turn to 183; if you haven't, turn to 302.

173

The cooper is no fool, so you move away from the
body in response to his command. But there seems to
be some confusion among two of the search-parties;
each group thinks that if is meant to cover the Harbour
Row area, An innkeeper calls Channing over to sort
things out, thus providing you with the ideal opportu-
nity to make a quick search of the body unnoticed, If
you have the Sleight of Hand Special Skill, turn to 307.
If you do not, Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to
307; but if you are Unlucky, turn to 331
174

174

Though you try your best not to offend the grave
robbers, Hogg takes your refusal to drink as an insult.
‘Suit yourself,’ he snaps, ‘but I can see that this is not
goin’ to be a particularly harmonious partnership.
Therefore, I'm obliged to charge yer another two
shinies, fer wear and tear on Mister Kilmarney’s sensi-
bilities. Now, we have some arrangements to make,
palms to grease an’ the like. So, if yer'll just give us
our money, we'll meet yer at the cemetery in half an
hour.’

If you pay the fee, cross & Gold Pieces off your
Adventure Sheet and turn to 374. But if you cannot or
will not pay Hogg just yet, turn to 28.

175-176

175
The Corpse Master has no defence against the blow

which ends his evil retgn. His black robes fall to the
ground as his body collapses into dust. The pipe organ
no longer plays its dirge, and the rats are already
scampering back to their sewer domain. For defeating
the Corpse Master, gain 1 point of tuck. Now, will
you inspect the body of the Man-Ore {turn to 94),
look through the other rooms of the Rohmer (turn to
3), or leave the theatre immediately (turn to 383)?

176

Fearful of the possible consequences, you tum the
gruesomely styled handle and .. . nothing. The door is
locked. If you have the Lock Picking Special Skil! and
wish to use it, turn to 284. If you do not have this
Special Skill but would like to try to prise the door
open, Test your Skill. If you succeed, turn to 284; but if
you fail, turn to 53, Then again, if you'd rather just
leave this strange house in Divil’s Lane alone, add 2
Hours and return to 200,

177-178

177
The Dark Elf tightens the rope round your neck yet
again, Deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA and Test
your Skill, Keep on Testing your Skill until you either
succced (turn to 274) or die most horribly.

178

Maybe there is another way out of the temple, or
perhaps the place is not quite as empty as it seems to
be. Whatever the reason, you start to search the room.
But you don’t get very far before a blazing pain burns
through your body — deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA. The pain makes it impossible for you to
continue your search, so will you now hurry out of
the temple (turn to 95) or risk taking a closer look at
the strange crystals (turn to 241)?

179-181

179
Only the finest of fighters could hope to defeat such
odds. If you do not have the Combat Special Skill, you fall
beneath the long knives and your adventure is over. If
you do have the Combat Special Skill, you run this way
and that, to prevent yourself from being hemmed in and
overwhelmed by sheer numbers. [n time, only five
Rosichalcians are left guarding the way out of the temple.
You charge forward and fight them ail at the same time

SKILL STAMINA
First ROSICHALCIAN 7 ”
Second ROSICHALCIAN 6 8
Third ROSICHALCIAN 3) 4
Fourth ROSICHALCIAN 7 9
Fifth ROSICHALCIAN 5 41

After two rounds of combat, turn to 35

180

Suppressing the urge to panic, you press against the
inrushing water and force your shoulders into the
narrow gap at the top of the window, until you are
jammed solid. Then you use your unique training to
snake forward through the gap. You are struggling on
painfully when your body is seized by the current of
the river and you are pulled out through the window
like a cork out of a bottle. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 363. If you are Unlucky, turn to 309

181
The rats continue to bite as you reach through to the
simple bolt that fastens the cage — deduct 3 more
points from your STAMINA. Popping your elbow back
182-183

into place, you rise to your feet and stagger out of the
stone hut in which you have been held prisoner,
Outside, you see that it is night. A familiar village,
Penkhull, lies in the near distance. There is no sign of
Gruul or his Magus, but you remember Gruul saying,
‘The Secret Chiefs are expected in the village.’ He
must mean Penkhull; turn to 369

182
The manhunter seizes you and, with a single hand, lifts
you high above its. head in triumph, It pauses to
savour your feeble struggles before casually tossing
you into the path of a lightning bolt! Your scorched
body will be a priceless addition to the Obisian Preda-
tor’s trophy collection.

183

You are engaged in a life-or-death struggle for your
cranial capacity when the door behind you is knocked
off its hinges. Dozens of inmates storm into the
laboratory. They pull the monster away from you, and
proceed to undo the mad Doktor’s handiwork! Welsch
snatches an assortment of stray pieces, crying out,
‘Mother! ] love youl’ You have seen enough. You
hurry through the devastated asylum and do not stop
until you are out in the open air once more, Write
down the word ‘Rotkod’ on your Adventure Sheet. If
you are disguised as a warden, you change back into
your own clothes. Now, if you have not done so
already, will you make for the Last Octopus (turn to
$7) or Malt Lane (turn to 207), or, if you have reason
to do so, Priestsgate or Weathern Mill?

184

184

That was no old lady you just passed. Your skill
enables you to see that beneath the dress and shawl of
an old pauper is the deliberately bent form of a Xen-
Viper! This breed of snake people is rare among the
evil lizard races, in that it can survive the colder
northern regions of Titan. Because of this, Xen-Vipers
are sent in small cadres to infiltrate the cities of those
regions, to become an enemy within. If you attack the
Xen-Viper, turn to 453. If you hurry on up to Entadar’s
lodgings, turn to 9

185-187

i Ba A The instant you touch the figure, it explodes in a fury

a a ale of sparks! The silken gown and mask burn away, to
reveal a bizarre mannequin made of metal! And now
you too start to bur, your body held fast to the
dummy by a powerful force. Karam Gruul speaks
through the unmoving lips of his effigy a final time:
‘Enjoy your gold — fool's gold’ Your muscles are
locked in place by the mannequin’s power, but your

mind escapes into merciful oblivion

186

Meinster Cemetery is a big place, and one rich in
hiding places, You quickly lose the mob among the
shadowy sprawl of crooked headstones and family
burial chambers, then circle back in a wide arc, The
fearless vampire-hunters are still rooting in the further
parts of the graveyard when you tiptoe out through
the cemetery gates. Add 3 Hours and return to 200

187
At first you feel as if you are about to succumb to the
Baron’s influence, but then you start to draw upon
reserves of strength you didn’t even know you pos-
sessed. You stagger back, momentarily dazed but free
from Milescu’s power. He snarls angrily and rushes
forward to rend you with his bare hands.

BARON MILESCU SKILL 9 STAMINA 15

If you win and you have a stake, turn to 3§2. If you
do not have a stake, turn to 312.

188

188
‘Slice and dice, little red-bag!’ That voice! It can only
be ... The Corpse Master materializes out of thin air

and plunges his bony dagger into Gruul's back. Believ-
ing Gruul to have betrayed him, the skeletal fiend has
come to fulfil his oath of revenge. But Gruul is not
done yet. He draws on his magic to heal the wound,
then embraces his old lieutenant in mortal combat.
What follows can only be described as the clash of the
century; but soon only one of the duellists is left
standing — the Corpse Master dissolves into dust
Rather than bask in triumph, however, Gruul seems
afraid and he no longer casts his spells. He must have
used all his energy to defeat the Corpse Master! Cross
Gruul's remaining Notura off your Adventure Sheet and
turn to 30,

189-190

189

Inside the tricky drawer you find 25 Gold Pieces and a
letter of introduction, addressed to Doktor Welsch,
director of Craven Asylum (add both the letter and
the Gold Pieces to your Adventure Sheet), The letter
says that you are a relative of Ouspenskaya and that
you must be permitted to see her. You put the
hello, what’s this? Also lying in the drawer is a page
torn from Bennet’s diary. It reads:

Now I know how the rogues of Blackhaven elude us
Entador says that one of my men, Conrad Zaar of
Weathern Mill, is a spy for the Cabal. Bul I must have
proof before making any accusations.

If, in future, you are given a chance to visit Conrad
Zaar at Weathern Mill, you may do so by turning to
93 (make a note of this paragraph number on your
Adventure Sheet). Now, will you attend to Bennet (turn
to 149) or go straight to the window (turn to 80)?

190
Every part of your subconscious self begs you not to
enter the Door Beyond, so you hold back and spend
one of the most fearful hours of your life, waiting in
that haunted chamber of darkness. You are beginning
to fear for your sanity when Mawn Pretoragus returns
Looking aged and weary, he says, ‘Take the settlement
and begone.’ The front door opens — you are only too
glad to make use of it.

You hurry out of Divil’s Lane, hoping you will never
have cause to go there again. Make a note of the
word ‘Q’yann’ and add the Hand of Glory to your

ee | ee
Ig!

Adventure Sheet. As well as being useful against Gruul,
this Ward emits a constant aura of sleep. If you fight a
battle while carrying the hand (you may get rid of it at
any time by crossing it off your Adventure Sheet), you
must deduct 1 point from your opponent's sKILL score
for the duration of the battle, but you also have to
deduct 1 point from your own sTAmina at the start of
the battle. If fighting more than one opponent, you
need deduct only the 1 sTAMINA point, Now add 3
Hours and retum to 200.

Igt
There ts a brief lull before the skull cries out, ‘Sneak on
the stairs! Stealer in the night! Listener at the door!
Sneak! Sneak! Sneak!’ The voice is no longer in your
mind; it echoes loudly back and forth between the
stone walls of the underground corridor. Turn to 35

192-194

192

Before you know it, the Dark Elf has a thin rope round
your neck, He is trying to strangle you! You wriggle
your hand inside the noose, to stop it throttling you
Instead, the cord cuts into your hand; deduct 2 points
from your sTAMINA. Your first concern now must be
to escape. Test your Skill If you succeed, turn to 274;
but if you fail, turn to 177.

193
Fingers trembling, you uncork the bottle of Poison
Antidote and pour the life-saving fluid down your
throat; cross the antidote off your Adventure Sheet. The
door itself is locked. If you later find a Brass Key, you
may, contrary to normal instructions, come here again
Now you must return to the hall and choose a door
you haven't tried already. Will you enter Big Laffs
(turn to 220), Nosh (turn to 275), Fat Maggots (turn to
117) or Wipefeet (turn to 58)?

194
Fortunately your wits are equal to this difficult situ-
ation, You face Channing and say, ‘I was looking for
clues. There may be something on the body which’ll
help us find the Shocker.’

Channing considers your explanation for a moment,
then tells his men to release you. ‘The guards’ll do
that,’ he says. ‘You just leave the body be.’ Will you
now offer to join the hunt for the Shocker (turn to
345), stay here and await developments (turn to 290),
or make your way back to the Last Octopus (turn to

253)?
195-197

195
Following this master of the clandestine arts undetected
will be no easy task. Make but a single sound and the
game will be up. If you have the Sneak Special Skill,
turn to 302. If you do not, tum to 236,

196

A grating voice echoes inside your mind: ‘Neeeced .. .
foooood,’ and you stumble forward in a daze. When
you reach the skull you roll up your sleeve. The
skull’s teeth touch your arm and although the skin is
not broken, you feel it suck out your spirit— deduct 2
points from your STAMINA, Suddenly, your mind clears
and the full. revolting impact of what you have done
hits you: turn to 172.

197
The meeting of the Fraternity isn’t due to take place until
midnight, but as you don't have. any other strong leads to
follow up you devide to spend the day keeping a quicteye
on the Last Octopus. To this end you nestle dawn inside
an old rowing boat which sits, facing the tavern, across

—————_—— eS

198-I99

the whart. When you lie down, however, you realize just
how tired you are. As it ix still very early in the day, you

could risk taking a nap now, lf you do, turn to 108: If you
would rather save sleeping for later, tim to 354

198

The Angevin Shroud is yours! And now that you have
the grimy burial-cloth in your hands you feel that it is
vibrant to the touch. This is because the shroud has
absorbed some of the death-consuming power of the
Necrophage who was once buried in it. That said. the
shroud has only one more wave of power remaining,
use it and the shroud will become completely useless.
You may drape the shroud over yourself at any. time,
except during a battle: simply cross the shroud off
your Adiwnture Sheet and restore your svAmina to its
Initial! score.

Pleased with your sain, you make for the exit of the
waxworks, If the word ‘Cainam’ |s noted on your
Anlventire Sheet, tum -to ags; if it is not, add + Hour
and retum to 200.

199

The gate swings open and you pass throuph it into a
small courtyard. There seems to be no way out of the
courtyard, which has-a magic circle engraved on the
Hagstone floor. Suddenly, something picks you up and
hurls you into the centre: of the circle — jase =
STAMINA points. If you have a Hexalpha, tum to goo.
IF you do not, you are crushed by a powerful and
invisible foe you cannot hope to defeat
200

200
The woman takes you to the safety of her lodgings in
Harbour Row, where she insists that you get some
much-needed rest. Placing your trust in her, you fall
fast asleep {restore 4 STAMINA points). When you
wake up, she gives you Provisions worth 2 meals, 30
Gold Pieces and, if you need one, a sword, Then she
answels your questions.

'l, Professor Van Heldenghast, have also spent years
trying to find Karam Gruul — a being of indeterminate
origin whose foul Life-force has been sustained for
over three hundred years by a mystic art of his own
devising: Nofura. If Gruul learns to master this perverse
mixture of magic, alchemy and physiology, he will
conquer the world, Yet Nofura may well be his undo-
ing. After the war, many artefacts were found in the
ruins of Gruul’s Tower of Inquisition Six of these —
the unique Wards of Notura — I have been able to
trace to Blackhaven. Obtain these six, and you will
have some protection against Gruul’s dark powers.’
Van Heldenghast then tells you exactly where the
Wards are, but she also says that you have only nine
hours in which to find them. ‘There are other urgent
matters we must attend to tonight.’

When you leave one of the Ward locations, you will
be told how many hours you have spent there, Make
a note of these hours; as soon as they total nine or

| more, turn to 75, Whenever you leave a location, you
will be returned here so that you may choose another
location from the list below. You may not visit the
same location twice

ee
20.

Time is short, so you thank the Professor, promise fo
return to Harbour Row at the appointed hour, then set
off once more on to the streets of Blackhaven. Which
of the six Ward locations will you visit:

Kiennar’s Curiosity Shop? Turn to 340
The Three Broken Fingers Tavern? Turn to 61
The Shrine of Belthegor? Turn to 334
Gustav Hollman’s Chamber of

Horrors? Turn to 10
The Olde Gaol? Turn to 385
Gallows Square? Tum to 245

20%
You climb up and up the ladder until you reach the
loft. Much of the cramped attic is taken up by mill
machinery; the rest is occupied by Zaar's meagre
cffects, You sec a possible escape route: a smal] door
tucked away beneath the heavy, rotating mill-shaft
You open the door and step out on to a tiny balcony,
past which the sails of the windmill swish, and look
down to the ground, some twenty metres below, Also
on the balcony is Conrad Zaar! The treacherous guard
is a tall, imposing character whose brutish features
suggest Orcish lineage. ‘I knew you'd be here sooner
or later,’ he sncers, sword in hand. ‘Now die!’ Dodging
Zaar’s surprise attack, you fal] back into the loft. Zaar

charges in after you
CONRAD ZAAR SKILL 7 STAMINA 6

If you win, turn to 16,

202-203

202
Hogg frowns, ‘Now, look! Seein’ as yer refusin’ to lend
a friendly hand to the venture, I feel £ should remind
yer that we only agreed to help yer find the skull. We
didn’t enter into any agreement specifyin’ that we
should fetch it fer yer as well. Therefore, I t/ink it only
fair, given Mister Kilmarney’s delicate constitution,
that I should charge yer two extra shinies fer labour
costs. Indeed, we won't go any further unless yer pay
us right now!’ -

Will you agree to settle your account with the grave
robbers (turn to 98), or simply tell Hogg to get back
to work (turn to 113)?

203
The inmates see the grey of your uniform and retreat in
fear. One man, however, rushes forward and presses a
locket into your hand. You open the locket, to discover
that it contains two miniature portraits: one of the man,
204-205

looking handsome and splendid, and the other of a
beautiful woman. ‘Stranger,’ says the man with startling
lucidity, ‘find my lady and give her the locket. She must
know.’ You promise the man that you will do as he asks,
then you head back out of the room (add the Inmate’s
Locket to your Adventure Sheet), It occurs to you that
you could free the inmates by leaving this door open; if
you wish to do so, note that you have freed the inmates
on your Adventure Sheet, then return to the hall and
choose a door you haven't tried before. Will you enter
Nosh (turn to 275}, Big Trubbull (turn to 287), Fat
Maggots (turn to 117) or Wipefeet (turn to 58)?

204

Keeping one eye fixed on the Provosts and the other
on the gallows, you step forward, ‘Oi! You sigh in
frustration. The Man-Orcs have seen you and are now
wondering what in Slangg’s name you are up to,
tiptoeing across the cobblestones like that. Will you
attack the Provosts (turn to 26), try to bribe them
(turn to 14) or seek to fool them (tum to 148)?

205

The beggar secretes the gold in some inner region of
her clothing, then hands you a small bottle: ‘Masky
said it was poison antydote, or sumfink. Said it was
the only cure fer ‘is deadly serum. | drank some, but it
didn’t do anyfin’ fer me cockles.’

A label on the bottle does indeed read ‘Antidote’. It’s a
pity then that the beggar has left enough of the stuff
for only one use. She carries on talking while you put

gs Mess

206-207

the bottle away. ‘Masky went on an’ on about ‘ow the
Octypus is ‘is cover fer these parts. Ever likely ’e goes
droppin’ ‘is antydotes if ’e spends all ‘is time in a
tavern.’ You cannot help but laugh with the old
woman; turn to 44.

206

Another couple of steps and you'll be able to make
out what’s being said. You listen more closely and
hear, ‘Neeeeed foooood _,. neeeeed foooood’ Only
this voice is inside your head! It is the Skull of Mora
Tao, and it wants to feed on your spirit. To feed the
foul thing, you will have to take it out of your pack
and allow it to feed on your arm. If you refuse to do
this, turn to 191; but if you are willing to satisfy the
skull’s appetite, deduct 4 points from your STAMINA
and turn to 296.

207

Silas Entador lives in poverty-stricken Malt Lane,
where whole families and complete strangers are
crammed into over-priced tenements. Crime and dis-
ease are no strangers in these godforsaken conditions,
so it is with great caution that you approach the hovel
Entador calls ‘home’. A man, reeking of Lendale, lies
sprawled in the open doorway. You step carefully
over the snoring drunkard and make for the staircase
just inside the building’s squalid hallway. Entador’s
chamber is on the top floor; you are almost there
when an old lady brushes past you on her way
downstairs. If you have the Disguise Special Slall, tum
to 184; if not, turn to 9.
208~—209

208

Panic threatens to overwhelm you, but you stay calm
long enough to see that the plain wall between the
two columns is actually a secret door! You push
against the door and it swivels open, to reveal a spiral
staircase which leads up to the balcony. Unfortunately,
there is no way of locking this door — it swivels round
and round as the Cabal members come rushing up the
stairs behind you, You must retain a sure foot if you
are to escape their clutches. Test your Skill, If you
succeed, turn to 300; if you fail, turn to 122,

20

You fall deeper and deeper into the Baron’s crimson
gaze until you are left with no will of your own, That
done, you are cursed with an all too vivid awareness
as the Vampire feeds on your blood! When Milescu is
sated, he changes into a huge bat and flies up into the
sky, free to roam the Old World after years of non-
existence, This is a sorry day for all of Titan! Released
from the Vampire's spell, you fall, dazed, to the ground
Roll two dice and deduct the total rolled from your
STAMINA. If you are still alive, return to the paragraph
you came from and continue your adventure

210-211

210

To the untrained eye, the Wayside Shrine of Belthegor
is little more than a pile of overgrown bricks with a
rew ‘funny’ carvings on them; to you, however, the
Shrine is a window into a distant past when savage
mutant beings gave sacrifice to the god of second life
lust as Van Heldenghast had described it, the Mask of
Belthegor is set in a huge slab of worked stone and is
easy to find. If you have the Tracking Special Skill, turn
<0 358; if you do not, turn to 1§9,

21IT

Careful not to fall from the moving vehicle, you sit
down in the vacated seat, take hold of the reins and

‘Aaghhht’ The leather straps are coated with an
evil slime which burns your skin; deduct 2 points from
your STAMINA. You are still hugging your blistered
hands when the horses set off at a breakneck pace. The
powerful beasts froth and neigh as they pull the
212-213

carriage faster and faster into the city’s infamous dock-
lands. There, they thunder along the banks of the
Border River, before swerving off towards the river
itself! Will you try to slow the horses (turn to 346),
climb inside the carriage (turn to 137). or leap off the
vehicle and hurry back to the Guard Post, in the
slender hope of finding the Man-Orc (turn to 328)?

212
Your rash decision has just saved your life, for the
Dark Elf is an assassin sent to kill you. Had you
lowered your guard for but an instant, he would
have attacked you with a deadly garrotte! The other
drinkers stand well back to watch the mortal
combat

DARK ELF ASSASSIN SKILL 8 STAMINA 7

If you win, turn to 243,

213
Having scouted all around the Rohmer, you can find
only one other means of entry: an unbarred second-
floor window at the rear of the building. It might
just be possible to reach this window by climbing
up an old drainpipe which runs near it. If you want
to try this and you have the Climb Special Skill,
turn to 71; if you wish to attempt the climb without
the Special Skill, tum to 247. If you would rather
not try for the window at all, you may either return
to the side door (turn to 394), or leave the Rohmer
and continue your investigations elsewhere (turn to

383).

214-215

214
The lantern shatters and spills most of its burning oil
all over Conrad's bald, scarred head. However, he just
ignores the enveloping flames and continues upwards
i silence. The lantern falls to the ground and sets fire
to several bales of hay. In moments, the entire mill is
ablaze. (Make a note on your Adventure Sheet that the
mill has caught fire.) But what about Conrad? Will you
stand and fight him (turn to 350), or seek to escape the
cut of his gleaming machete (turn to 165)?

215
You barely have time to reach the cover of the rocks
when the rumble becomes a roar and four hundred
riders thunder into view! Orcs, Trolls, Werebeasts,
Brician nobles — a veritable rogues’ gallery of war
criminals passes in front of you, and their ranks are
thick with banners and armbands bearing the emblem
of the Cabal of the Werewolf! The entire organization
is here, going to meet its leader at Hope’s End. You
wait for the dust to settle, then set off in pursuit. Turn
to 29.

wat

re 4 BS me

Sy ET ie

216-218

216

Clutching his face, the warrior drops to his knees:
Please ... the skull!’ But you keep a firm grip on the
artefact and merely step out of the man’s way. When
ne next looks up at you, his skin is taut, his eyes are
rheumy, and his jaw is trembling uncontrollably. He
calls forward and his flesh withers away, until all that
remains is dust, The skull is yours. Somehow, you
xnow the cursed Ward will give you eternal life in
return for feeding on your spirit. If, in future, you are
‘old that the skull wants your spirit, follow the instruc-
tions; but note that you may not eat any Provisions
until affer you have fed the skull. You may throw the
skull away at any time by simply crossing it off your
Adventure Street. Now, you must make your way back
up to the graveyard. If the word ‘Daednw’ is written
on your Adventure Sheet, tum to 31§; otherwise, add 3
Hours and return to 200

217

You should have followed Professor Van Helden-
ghast’s instructions to the letter, for, without the
Necromancer's operations, all you have in your pack is
a wooden hand! The useless prosthesis does nothing to
stop Gruul's magic — make a note of the word ‘Rennur’
on your Adventure Sheet. Suddenly, you come out of
vour stupor. If the word ‘Esproc’ is written on your
Adventure Sheet, turn to 188; if it ts not, return to 300,

218
Only now in the cold light of day does the desperate
nature of your situation dawn on you — your investiga-
239

tions so far have drawn a complete blank! Yet at the
same time, you feel so close to breaking the wall of
secrecy which Gruul has built so effectively round
himself, Part of the answer must lie in the Last Octopus,
so you decide to spend the day keeping a watch over
the place, To this end, you nestle down inside an old
rowing boat which is ideally placed just across the
wharf, Once you lie down, however, you realize just
how tired you are; you have been hunting Gruul all
night. It is still early in the day, so if you wish to risk
taking a nap now, tum to 108, If you would rather
sleep later, turn to 384.

219

With a shock, you realize that it is tis woman whose
portrait is inside the locket given to you by the man at
Craven Asylum! You remember the inmate’s words:
‘Find my lady and give her the locket. She must
know.’ Despite the risks, you rush over to the woman
and present her with the locket, You tell her exactly
where and how you found it As you speak, the
woman's haughty demeanour gives way to sadness
‘Karl said the Cabal was being misled, but I didn’t
believe him,’ she murmurs. ‘Now I know he spoke the
truth. They told me he was dead. We have all been
betrayed. If you want Gruul, go to Hope’s End. You'll
find him skulking in the ruins of his Tower of Inquisi-
tion. Now I must go to free my husband.’

You thank the lady for her priceless information, then
begin your long trek northwards, Restore 1 point of
LUCK and turn to 19.

220~222

220

The door opens into a vestibule, across which is a
second, barred door. You unbar this door and step
into the cavernous vault which is home to the asylum’s
two hundred inmates, No attempt has been made to
care for these lost and forgotten souls, some of whom
babble in maddened fury at the sound of your intru-
sion. Are you disguised as a warden? If so, turn to
203; if not, turn to 264,

221

Ignoring the insistent relic, you ask Kiennar to tell you
about a few of the other curios in the shop. The portly
man warms to his task and soon forgets all about the phial
of vampire blood, which he leaves, carelessly unattended,
onthe counter. You are about to palm the glass tube when
the haunted skull wails, ‘Thief! Thief! Trying to steal the
blood! Thief’ Kiennar sees through your ruse at once; he
snatches up the phial and cries out for help. Knowing that
the City Guard cannot be far away, you hurry out of the
shop without the blood. Happy now, the skull grows
silent once more, Add 1 hour and return to 200.

222

Your fight with the Demothrax will remain with you
for ever — never have you encountered such ferocity!
And your battle may not be over yet, for your blows
seem only to have stunned the creature. Already she
seeks to rise to her feet. So, quickly now, what will
you do: flee (turn to 81), use the chain to bind Argolis
once more (turn to 294), or grab her and throw her
back down into the pit (turn to 127)?
223-224

223
Without warning, the guards try to take you by
surprise. You must fight all three at once.

SKILL STAMINA
FURNEAUX 7 8
First GUARD 6 6
Second GUARD y 5

If you defeat them all, turn to 124

224
‘| dunno,’ mutters the Orc doubtfully, He pulls a
pickled rat out of his pocket and chews on it to help

225-226

him concentrate. Then he offers you a bite of this
Orcish delicacy, Though the tangy rodent tastes truly
revolting, it is quite nutritious; restore 2 points of
STAMINA. At length, the Ore says, ‘Ah, get on with
yer!’ You thank him then hurry across to the tower
which, even in its unfinished state, is already the size
af a small mountain There are mary ways into the
tower, but two gates seem the most promising. If you
have the Trarking Special Skill, tum to 232. If you do
not, will you enter the gate on the left (turn to £24),
or the one on the right (turn to 1997

225
Mastering your nerves in the face of such malignity
you calmly give your reply, But the Corpse Master
spits with disdain, “Your speak sunlighten darkbond
Infect not my bones. Gallantarjan dawn through you’
Slowly, he raises his. repulsive knife and leers:. ‘Slice
and dice, little red-bag!’ Turn to roq.

226

Breaching. the heavy door is out of the question, so
you pull yourself up inte the chimney and begin a
dow climb upwards, Tired and aching, you emerge in
a broken sarcophagus, some ten metres from the en-
trance lo the crypt. You step aut of the stone casket
and run clear, as the underground tomb — and all the
earth above it — starts to: sink! You cannot even begin
to guess why or how this is happening. but you do
know that the Skull of Mora ‘Tao is now beyond
reach. [f the word ‘Daednw' is written on your Adven-
lure Sheet, turn ta 315. If it is not, add + hours and
return to 200.
227-229

227
Standing well back, you take the sphere out of your
pack and hurl it at the figure. However, it is no
ordinary man who is caught in the deadly corrosive
mist; the silken robes fizzle away, to reveal that ‘he’ is
actually a metal dummy! A snarl escapes the effigy’s
frozen lips, “You may have won this round, Bounty
Hunter, but, from this moment on, you shall walk for
ever under the shadow of Karam Gruul, And when |
finally have you in my talons, you will be begging for
death. Beggirig’

In seconds, the bizarre effigy and the fool’s gold at its
feet are reduced to a puddle of molten metal. For
winning this round in your war of nerves, restore i
point of Luck. Now you had better leave the alley,
lest the acidic tendrils tum on you; tum to 399.

228
Even though the room is pitch black, the Door Beyond
gleams like a psychic beacon in your mind’s eye. You
ignore the creeping shadows and hurry forward. Test
your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 190. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 134.

229
Though chunks of stonework land all around you,
somehow you manage to survive the blast without
injury. The cellar, however, is now on fire — it won't
be long before the entire mill is ablaze! (Make a note
on your Adventure Sheet that the windmill has caught
fire; also, if the word ‘Darnoc’ is written on your

230-231

Adventure Sheet, cross it off.) You hurry out of the
cellar, only to find the portcullis still in place. But
where is Zaar? You may look for him on the ground
floor, if you haven't done so already (bum to 39). or
up in the loft (turn to 202).

230
You creep along the dusty corridor as far as a staircase,
which descends to an open doorway and well-lit room
of some kind. From the top of the stairs you can just
make out the sound of voices. Slowly, you take the
tirst few steps; the voices grow louder. If you have the
Skull of Mora Tao, turn to 206. If you do not, turn to
296.

231
The three crystal balls spin in and out of one another
in eccentric orbits, while swiftly rotating on their own
axes at about shoulder height. Each sphere is about ten
centimetres in diameter, and each contains a tiny
picture. Inside one is the image of a lock, inside the
second is the image of a shield, and inside the third is
the image of a sword. Both the lock and the shield
emit a faint blue glow, but the sword is quite dull ,
at least at first, for the sword suddenly glows bright
orange and a magical fire courses through your veins;
lose 2 STAMINA points. You must destroy the crystals
if you wish to escape from this place alive. Which
crystal will you strike first:

The lock? Turn to 306
The shield? Turn to 366
The sword? Turn to 40
232-233

232
You are met at the door by one of the grey-uniformed
wardens ~ a Troll! ‘Wot d’yer want?’ he snaps. You
present the creature with Bennet’s Letter of Introduc-
tion, which he pretends to read before sniffing, ‘S'pose
yer'd better cum in.’

You step into the gloomy hallway and look on ruefully
as the Troll locks the door behind you. Then he takes
you to the study of Maxillon Crabb, the asylum‘s
deputy director. Smiling, Crabb offers you a plush
armchair, while he studies your letter. Finally he says,
‘My superior, Doktor Welsch, would have greeted
you himself, but he is busy at present. He has come all
the way from Cumbleside, Seems to have been some
trouble there of late,” You reply that this is all very
well, but you really would like to see your ‘sister’.
Crabb nods understandingly, ‘Indeed, but perhaps
you'd care for some refreshments first?’ If you accept
Crabb’s hospitality, tum to 36; otherwise, turn to r52

233
‘The Hand of Death?’ shouts the landlady. ‘What in
| Slangg’s name has he got to do with my tavern? Look,
folk round here are sick to death of interfering busybod-
ies coming from Royal Lendle and stirring up the past.
Now, if you don’t mind, I’ve work to be getting on
with.’ You try to explain, but Eviron doesn’t listen.
She nods to someone over your shoulder, then walks
away. You turn and find yourself face to face with a
Dark EIff The presence of such an evil creature in a
Gallantarian alehouse is unusual, to say the least. Clad

| meee
234-235

in armour covered with Elvish runes, the gaunt mid-
night creature murmurs, ‘We must talk about your
Karam Gruul over a drink,’ Will you:

Talk to him? Turn to 1§7
Ask to be left alone? Turn to 192
Attack him? Turn to 212

234
Tl talk!’ you wail Then you tell Gruul everything:
about your mission, your adventures in Blackhaven,
your knowledge of the Cabal, everything! When you
finish, Gruul turns to leave the room. ‘Radu,’ he says
flatly, ‘remove the final panel, The Secret Chiefs are
expected in the village.” The Magus eagerly obeys,
then follows his master out of the room. For giving in
to Gruul, deduct 1 point from your Luck. Soon, you
feel the matted fur of the rats brushing against your
lips. Deduct 3 points from your sTAMINA, If you have
the Sleight of Hand Special Skill, turn to 181; if you do
not, your adventure ends here

235
Artfully changing the subject, you ask Kiennar about

some of the other curios in his store, and in no time at
all the portly shopkeeper has forgotten all about the
phial of blood. Indeed, he casually leaves it lying on
the counter while he explains to you the workings of
an Elven ortery. He is none the wiser, then, when you
deftly slip the phial into your pack and casually take
your leave. You walk out of the curiosity shop with a
quiet smile on your face, Add the Blood of Baron

236

Milescu to your Adventure Sheet. Also, note that from
now on you must Test your Luck after each battle you
win. If you are Lucky, read on as normal; but if you are
Unlucky, make a note of the paragraph you have come
from, then turn to paragraph 49. Do not deduct the
normal 1 point from your Luck when making these
special checks. Now add 1 Hour and retum to 200, -

236
The moment he hears you, the assassin turns and lobs a
small glass sphere in your path. The sphere shatters,
releasing a cloud of green luminescent mist which rises
like a curtain between you and the Man-Orc, who
keeps on running. If you wish to mun through the
strange mist in pursuit of the assassin, turn to 60, If you
would rather hold back and let him escape, turn to 143.

237-238

237

The last thing the Cabal would expect is for their arch-
enemy to come strolling through their ranks, so this is
precisely what you do! However, even you are sur-
prised by how far you get before Radu shouts, ‘I don’t
believe itf The Bounty Hunter!’ While everyone is
shocked rigid by your audacity, you sprint forward
Roll one die to discover how many Cabal members
stand in your way. You must fight them one after
another, starting from the top of the following list:

SKILL STAMINA

EVIRON THE LANDLADY 7 a
RAT MAN 5 6
BRICIAN WARLORD 6 5
ORC STOAT-STRANGLER 8 6
DARK ELF WARRIOR 7 6
LIZARD MAN 8 8

If you win, turn to 105,

238
You enter a large vault and find the Skull of Mora Tao
resting on a black marble pedestal. Although the
skull’s bottom jaw is missing, its remaining teeth are
cruelly sharp and its eye-sockets are like black jewels
of death. Pleased as you are to find the skull, it would
seem that someone has beaten you to it already! An
ageing warrior, whose footsteps you heard earlier,
shouts, ‘Too late, the skull is mine!’ Then he snatches
the skull up and presses it to his forearm. ‘At last!’ he
cries. As you watch, the warrior grows younger! ‘]
return each century,’ he gasps, ‘to give the skull sore

239-240

of my human spirit in exchange for immortality, Now
chat ] have it, no one shall take it away from me!’ Now
in the prime of life, the warrior pushes past you in a
trantic effort to reach the door. If you have the
Acrobatics Special Skil], tum to 270; if you do not, turn

to 79

239
You grant the sly reptile no quarter. Leaving her body
on the staircase, you hurry to the top floor. If you
have either the Sneak Special Skill or Lishek’s Warning,
turn to 398. Otherwise, Test your Luck, If you are
Lucky, turn to 398; but if you are Unlucky, turn to 46.

240
You spot Gruul tiptoeing away down the hill! But you
run after him and bring him down with a flying tackle
‘You have failed, he snarls ‘My servants are already
at work within the tower.’ You ask him what he means
by this, but he says no more. Just then, some of the
horses start to neigh, and a few of the soldiers break

241-242

out in shivers. 7 don’t like it,’ mutters the captain.
‘There’s something in the air, I can feel it.’ You tell him
to get his men moving, but, when he tries, they throw
themselves to the ground in blind panic. Will you
seize Gruul and ride on (turn to 99), or wait here with
the terrified soldiers (turn to 3°72)?

241

You turn your back on the gargoyle and start to
retrace your footsteps upstairs, The harsh voice calls
after you, ‘I sense your presence. Zaar! Is it you?’ You
begin to doubt your course of action. Would it be
better to try to assure the voice that all is well, or to
let it brood in ignorance? Write down the word
‘Darnoc’ on your Adventure Sheet. If you change your
mind and wish to ‘report’, turn to 262. Otherwise, you
will have to leave the cellar and search either the
ground floor, if you haven’t done so already (tum to
39), or the loft (tum to zor).

242

You try to hide from Gruul’s magic, but he traps you
inside the powerful time-winds of a Skein of Undoing.
Deduct 4 points from Gruul’s Notura. If you do not
have the Blood of Baron Milescu, you forget haw to
use your Special Skills and must cross them all off
your Adventure Sheet. If you have the Blood of Baron
Milescu but the word ‘Ranneik’ is written on your
Adventure Sheet, tum to 321. If you have the blood
alone, the Skein of Undoing dissipates without causing
harm. If the word ‘Esproc’ is written on your Adventure
Sheet, turn to 188; if it is not, return to 300,

243-244

243

You spend a moment attending to your wounds, then
set about searching the body of the assassin. On his
wrist is a silver tattoo depicting a werewolf’s head! He
also carries 11 Gold Pieces and a flask of Curative
Potion. You may drink the potion at any tirne, except
during a battle; when you drink it, cross the potion off
your Adventure Sheet and restore 3 points to your
STAMINA and 1 point to your Luck. When you finish,
you see that all the other tavern folk have gathered
round you in a circle, their weapons drawn. “You've
caused enough trouble here, already,’ warns Eviron, I
think you’d better leave.’ Will you stand your ground
and try to reason with the landlady (turn to 120), or
do as she says and leave the Last Octopus (turn
to 92)?

244

It has always been Kararn Gruul you sought, not any
of his lackeys, so you seize him and force him to lead
you safely out of the building. Gruul scowls but does
as he is told; after all the perils you have faced during
your quest, Gruul himself is almost an anticlimax
Outside, the fog has become so thick that you can
barely see where you are going, so you drag Gruul
across to the funeral pyre and pick up a flaming torch.
‘No!’ raves Gruul, “Throw it away!’ You look at your
foe and see that he is frantic with fear. He struggles
with all his might to get away from you and the fire. If
you do as Gruul asks and risk the fog without a light
to guide your way, turn to 34z. If you refuse and tell
him to be quiet, turn to 88,

245-246

2.45

The few criminals who are actually brought to justice
in Blackhaven meet their fate in Gallows Square where,
on market days, crowds gather to watch grisly public
hangings. Between one hanging day and the next, the
bodies of those last executed are left, suspended from
the gibbet, as a warning to all would-be villains. As
you reach the square, you recall the Professor's words:
‘Go to Gallows Square. One of the thieves hanging
there wears a wooden hand in place of one of his own,
which he Jost the first time he was caught stealing, No
one knows that the hand is actually one of the six
Wards. At present the Ward lies dormant, but take it
to Mawn Pretoragus, the Necromancer, and he will
make of it a Hand of Glory.’

Rows of empty seats line the square and three bodies
swing from the gallows, However, idling near by are
two hooded Man-Orcs. These are Provosts of the City
Executioner, and it is their job to keep watch over the
corpses. At the moment, though, they seem more
interested in teasing a beggar, Will you:

Attack the Provosts? Turn to 26
Seek to bribe them? Turn to 14
Attempt to fool them into simply
giving you the hand? Turn to 148
Try to steal the hand while the
Provosts are otherwise engaged? Turn to 395
246

Tilting your face downwards, you mutter, ‘Come ask
wot yer want doin’, haven't I?’
247-248

Crabb regards you with the utmost contempt. ‘Well,
you waste of oxygen, you can start by cleaning the
Doktor’s laboratory.’ He pauses as if expecting some
kind of reaction from you, but you remain impassive.
So it is with an air of perplexed disappointment that
Crabb hands you a Brass Key. ‘Well,’ he snaps, ‘what
are you waiting for?’ You grunt and head back to the
hall. There, you may open any door you haven’t
opened before. Will you pick Big Laffs (turn to 220),
Nosh (turn to 275), Big Trubbull (turn to 287) or Fat
Maggots (turn to 147)?

247
Hand over hand, you climb up the rickety drainpipe,
until disaster strikes — the pipe comes away from the
wall and breaks! You are still clinging to the hollow
tube when it clatters noisily on the street below;
deduct 1 point from your stTAmiNA. Now that your
‘ladder’ is no longer usable, you will either have to
take the side door after all (turn to 394) or leave the
theatre and get on with the hunt for Gruul (turn to

383).

248
When you reach the Wayside Shrine of Belthegor, you
find that the legendary mask is gone! An indentation
in the fallen masonry is all that remains to show you
where it used to be, Suddenly you hear a voice
coming from behind you: ‘While you have been enjoy-
ing my little diversion, 1 have applied my superior
intellect to the puzzle of the nines The Mask of
Belthegor is mine!’ You turn, but there is no one there

249-250

The voice fades on a mocking laugh — Karam Gruul
has beaten you again. Add 3 Hours and retum to 200

249
There is only one thing for it: you swarm up one of
the broad stone columns, using the decorative carvings
as fingerholds. At first your enemies look on in frustra-
tion, but then Radu directs some of them to a concealed
staircase that leads up to the balcony. Turn to 300.

250
You assure the man that your word is your bond, but
he just stands there, hand extended, waiting, Will you:

Change your mind and shake his
hand? Turn to 185

Leap to the attack? Turn to 375
Throw an Alchemical Sphere at him,
if you have one? Turn to 227

Withdraw your offer and walk away? ‘Turn to 399

251-252

251

The hours drag by as you maintain your watch on the
Last Octopus, but you see nothing of interest Eventu-
ally, the sun sets and, with the onset of evening, the
wharf transforms from a place of trade into a backdrop
for skulduggery. Suddenly you hear the sound of
splintering wood. There it is again, to your left. Chop!
Chop! Chop! You turn and see a wooden hut collapse
as Conrad, the Maniac Guard, breaks out through the
walls! His machete has waited a long time for this
moment,

CONRAD,

The Maniac Guard SKILL 10 STAMINA 12

If you win, turn to §2.

252

You fall head over heels and hit the unyielding cobbles
of the street with a dull thud. Deduct 5 points from
your STAMINA. You get back to your feet and try to
find the Man-Ore in the darkness ... There! Surpris-
ingly, the assassin is standing quite still beside a
carriage. For a few seconds the creature talks to some-
one through the carriage window, then turns and
hurries off down an alley, If you wish to follow the
assassin, turn to 41; but if you would rather approach
the carriage, turn to 292. Then again, perhaps you
would prefer to let them both be, and start your
manhunt proper, If so, will you go to Craven Asylum
(turn to 393), to the Last Octopus (turn to 23) or to
Malt Lane (turn to 207), or, if you have reason to do
so, to Priestsgate or Weathem Mill?

2535-255

253

All roads, it seems, lead to the Last Octopus — and-not
only for you. From a safe hiding place, you see a
number of horse-drawn coaches pull up outside the
tavern; they unload a variety of passengers, then drive
away. Another carriage arrives, the door opens and a
proud-looking woman steps out. If you have the
Inmate’s Locket, turn to 219; if you don’t, turn to 376

254
You hold the chain ready, but you have to keep your
cool in the face of a berserk Demothrax. Test your Skill,

If you succeed, turn to 294; if you fail, turn to 66.

255
The hellish bat wings its way out of the room, leaving
you alone. You expect the creature to make for the
staircase and the open sky, but it flies off, making for
somewhere else inside the tomb. Will you follow the
bat to see where it goes {turn to 100); stay where you
are and search the room more thoroughly (turn to
326); or leave both the bat and the room, and try

256-258

either the north door (turn to 386) or the east door
(turn to 141)?

256

Ever resourceful, you pull all the loosened rungs out of
their sockets, then, using the now empty holes as
fingerholds, climb up to the secure rungs above. From
there you glance back down into the pit, and see that
slotted into the top edge of the wooden beam is a
long razor. Had you reached up for the beam, you
would have lost some of your fingers — if indeed your
haven't done so already! Shuddering at the thought of
this devious trap, you scramble up the rungs, to the
trapdoor. The hatch isn’t locked, so you push it open
and squirm through; turn to 97

257

Disdainful of physical combat, Gruul seeks to disable
you with a bolt of dazzling energy. Deduct 3 points
from Gruul’s Notura. If you have the Angevin Shroud,
the lightning turns away from you; but if you don’t,
you must deduct 3 points from your sTAMINA. Now, is
the word ‘Esproc’ written on your Adventure Sheet? If it
is, turn to 188; if it is not, return to 300,

258
Kiennar seems both frightened and relieved as he takes
your money. ‘Before you leave,’ he says, ‘might |
suggest some protection? I can do you a Silver Cross
for three Gold, a wooden stake for eight Gold, or the
pair for ten. You won’t get a better deal than that.’ If
you wish to buy either or both of these things, add it,

259

along with the Blood of Baron Milescu, to your
Adventure Sheet, also crossing off the Gold Pieces you
spend. Also, make a note: after each battle you win in
future, you must Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, read
on as normal; but if you are Unlucky, make a note of
the paragraph you have come from then tum to
paragraph 49. Do not deduct the normal 1 point from
your LUCK when making these special checks. Now
that you have finished here, add 1 Hour and return to
200,

259

Inside the moneylender’s desk are 10 Gold Pieces and
a Hexalpha. The Hexalpha is a jagged, six-pointed
star, composed of interlaced triangles cast in solid
silver. It is about ten centimetres high and is a Rosichal-
cian artefact of great power. No Zombie will attack
you while you carry the Hexalpha; they may obstruct
you, they may hold you, but they will not cause you
any direct harm. Note, however, that this does not
apply to the Zombie-like Fogwalkers. Finally, you find
1 meal’s worth of Provisions in Kriswell’s kitchen. You
also find a Fogwalker waiting in ambush!

FOGWALKER SKILL 7 STAMINA 8

If you win, roll one die. If you roll a 6, you have
contracted the plague from your opponent and never
leave the moneylender’s abode. If you survive, you
may run to either the bonfire {turn to 21), the bell-
tower (turn to 397), the door with the red cross (tum
to 48), or the door with the rose-shaped handle (turn
to 158).
260-261

260

The fragmented chords lure you into the main hall, where
you are confronted by a nightmarish tableau. Swathed in
coils of mist, the assassin lies dead on the stage, and over
~s body stands the phantom ~ a cloaked skeleton whose
ves, raging with intense evil, stare out from beneath a
vide-brimmed hat. The skeleton laughs insanely as it
-2moves its dagger of bone from the assassin’s back,
x¢companied all the while by the cacophony of the pipe
organ, which plays all by itself! Hundreds of sewer rats
swarm across the stage, forming an undulating black
carpet. They scamper about the skeleton’s feet and crawl
=.1 over the Man-Orc’s body. The ‘phantom’ is, in fact, a

eutenant of evil which has been conjured from a
¢i:mension beyond the grave. He is a Corpse Master and
=ne rats are his children in death! Will you:

o- a

~~

_*

Safer

J '

?
rs iy
if

| Flee from this evil place? Tum to 12x

e Attack the Corpse Master? Turn to 104

“4 Hold your ground? Turn to 32
| 261

4s the assassin lands on your back, you shift your
weight and throw him to the floor. The rope goes
“ying out of his hand, so he decides to improvise with
: serrated dagger. Because you are still reeling from
she pain of the throttling, you must deduct 1 point
‘om your SKILL score for the remainder of the battle,
oiless you have the Combat Special Skill. Now fight!

SARK ELF ASSASSIN SKILL 8 STAMINA 7
_ © you defeat the Dark Elf, turn to 243

262-264

262
Taking a deep breath, you say, ‘Zaar reporting, master.
The Marshal and the Bounty Hunter are dead. What
are your orders?’

At first the voice says nothing, then it chuckles menac-
ingly. “Yes, fool, the Bounty Hunter is dead.’ Before you
know it, the gargoyle explodes! Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 229; but if you are Unlucky, tum to 27,

; 263

Before you can even think of making a move, a
familiar voice enters your head: ‘Neeeeed foooood
neeeeed foooood.’ You are beginning to regret ever
bothering with the irksome Skull of Mora Tao. But
now you must decide whether or not you are going to
remove it from your pack and allow it to feed on your
spirit. If you refuse to serve the parasite, tur to 160
But if you do as it demands, deduct 2 points from
your STAMINA and then, if you have the Sneak Special
Skill, turn to 371; otherwise, turn to 204.

264
You are considering leaving the vault when four of
the inmates suddenly rush at you in a maniacal rage
You must fight all of them at the same time,

SKILL STAMINA
First INMATE 6 9
Second INMATE 5 8
Third INMATE 7 5
Fourth INMATE 6 4

If you manage to defeat them all, turn to 7

eee

265-266

265

Maintaining a Zombie-like silence, you lift the rock
and struggle with it towards the tower. It is a com-
monly known fact that Zombies do not feel pain;
people disguised as Zombies, however, certainly do!
Your legs ache, your arms ache, everything aches, and
soon you are being driven by sheer willpower alone —
deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA. When you reach
the tower, you drop the stone on a pile of rocks and
pause to catch your breath. As your strength returns,
you look up at the vast structure, Of all the many
ways into the place, two gates look especially promis-
ing. If you have the Tracking Special Skill, turn to 132.
if you do not, will you enter the gate on the left (turn
to 114) or the gate on the right (turn to 199)?

266
You creep forward, place your foot in the small of the
driver's back and push! The caped figure doesn’t even
cry out as he goes hurtling down from his perch and,
moments later, his spreadeagled form is lost from
view. Will you now step into the driver’s seat and

267-269

take the reins {turn to 211), scramble down the side of
the carriage and climb inside (turn to 137), or jump
down from the vehicle, while it is still safe to do so,
and hurry back in pursuit of the assassin (turn to 328)?

267

You cannot believe that you have come this far, only
to fail! Gruul rallies the survivors of the battle and
returns to his Tower of Inquisition. You and the soldiers
give chase, but you are too late — Gruul activates the
Ethereal Projector! His first target was to have been
Royal Lendle, but now ... Words cannot describe the
sense of satisfaction he derives from wiping both you
and the patrol off the face of the planet

268
All that you have seen here adds up to yet another
display of Karam Gruul's devilry. You swear that he will
be made to atone for his many wrongdoings! Now, if you
have not done so already, will you go to Craven Asylum
(turn to 393) or to the Last Octopus (turn to §7), or, if you
have reason to do so, to Priestsgate or Weathern Mill?

269
A dozen or so sightseers rush into the room. Some of
them praise your skill, some call for the City Guard,
and one, a braggart you saw earlier, says, ‘Rubbish! I’d
have done it meself with a lump of wood.’ A look of
surprise suddenly crosses his face and he falls forward
with a machete in his back. Conrad lives again! Out-
raged, the mob turns on Conrad and the killer is soon
lost beneath a heap of fighting bodies. You consider

270-271

helping the brave folk but you know that Conrad is
unstoppable; the only way to defeat him is to avoid
him. You run at full speed out of what is now truly a
Chamber of Horrors. Add 1 Hour and return to 200

270
The warrior is almost through the door when you
dive forward and pull him to the ground. You are not
sure whether you are right or wrong to deny him his
‘immortality’; but your quest is paramount, and you
need the skull. The warrior responds to your interfer-
ence with an insane sweep of his double-headed axe!
At present, the newly rejuvenated warrior is still fairly
weak, but if the skull is fed more of his spirit he wil
grow stronger. Each time you lose an Attack Round,
add 2 point to the wartior’s SKILL score.

ANCIENT WARRIOR SKILL 6

If you win, turn to 216,

STAMINA 9

271
Boldly you step forward and announce that you serve
no one. In reply, the Corpse Master arches an eye-
socket and rasps, ‘Red-pact to be present! No thing in
void! Flesh to dust, worm to soil, prying eye to... 7’

Though you are unfamiliar with the Corpse Master's
strange way of talking, his meaning is clear: he doesn’t
believe you. So will you tell him that you serve the
City Guard (turn to 225) or the Cabal of the Werewolf
(turn to 133)? Then again, if you feel that the time for
talking is over, you may attack the Corpse Master
(turn fo 104) or flee (turn to 121)
272-273

272

Had you crossed the threshold of the featureless room,
you would have fallen through a trapdoor placed just
inside the doorway! Instead, you hold back and wait
tor the hatch to close. As the trap rises, a secret panel
opens in the far wall. You hurry through this opening
and enter a magnificent chamber bedecked with strange
symbols. One wall of the chamber is covered by an
enormous flag — the flag of the Cabal — while in the
centre of the room stands a large table covered with
maps and charts. Poring over these papers are Karam
Gruul and his Magus, Radu! ‘I have only to return to
Hope's End,’ says Gruul, ‘for the grand design to. . .’

Suddenly Radu cries out ~ he has seen you! You hurry
forward, but Radu pushes Gruul in your way, then
runs round behind the flag. Will you seize Gruul (turn
to 244) or ignore him and go after the Magus (turn to
76)?

273

just when you think you may be able to lay a hand on
Gruul, he closes his eyes and conjures up a Force Wall.
Your hands crash into the barrier and start to burn.
Deduct 1 point from Gruul's Notura. If you have the
Mask of Belthegor, you pull your hands away and the
burning stops without doing you any harm. But if you
do not have the mask, you clutch your hands in
agony; deduct 1 point from your skitt. Have you
made a note of the word Esproc’ on your Adventure
Sheef? If you have, turn to 188; if you haven't, return
to 300
274-275

274
You use your free hand to jab your foe in the neck,
forcing him to relax his grip, then you duck your head
under the rope and stagger forward in a red haze -
just as the Dark Elf advances to throttle you again. In
your weakened state, you can only hope to twist your
body so that he goes hurtling over your shoulder, If
you have the Combat Special Skill, tum to 261. Other-
wise, Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 261; but
if you are Unlucky, turn to 177.

275
Beyond the door is a torch-lit, spiral staircase which
takes you down to a barred door, You open this door
and find yourself looking into a cramped cell. Piled
against the far wall are .,. surely it cannot be! At your
feet lies the haggard form of Matra Ouspenskaya. She

276

is still alive, but only just. While trying to ease her
pains, you quickly tell Matra who you are. When you
finish, she croaks: ‘Cabal ... all war criminals ..
Bricians ... Gruul leads .., Fraternity ... front for
Cabal tavern.’ Then with a final gasp, Matra
Ouspenskaya passes away.

‘I knew there was something fishy about you!’ You
turn and see Maxillon Crabb, deputy director of the
asylum, and seven armed wardens standing over you.
The Trolls seize you, drag you back upstairs and lock
you in a darkened room. What's that sound? You can
hear someone — or something — shuffling through the
darkness towards you; tum to 172.

276
‘And much there is to learn,’ smiles the Imperator.
‘Now, you must leave. The rest of this meeting is not
for the ears of an Adept.’ Four Rosichalcians escort
you up to the wharf, then go back inside the tavern,
You turn to leave — when a Jai-Hulud sorcerer assassin
drops to the ground in front of you! The Jai-Hulud’s
incredible acrobatic prowess is enhanced by his magical
abilities. If you have the Acrobatics Special Skill, fight
your foe as normal; otherwise, roll three dice for your
opponent each Attack Round, and use the two highest
numbers rolled to find his Attack Strength. The Jai-
Hulud laughs aloud, draws his twin swords, then leaps

to the attack,
JAI-HULUD SKILL 9 STAMINA 8

If you win, turn to §4.

277-278

27

Night falls over the dockside and still you wait. The
Last Octopus is a popular tavern, who knows what
might yet happen there? A distant bell tolls eleven
The tavern now is not quite so full and... ‘Murder!
Murder! Help! The Shocker! Murder!’ The shouts come
from a couple of men who must be somewhere in one
of the neighbouring streets. If you want to hurry
along to see what has happened, tum to 86. If you
would rather stay where you are, turn to 253.

278

No sooner do you turn your back on the guards than
you hear Furneaux shout a Word of Wyrding. Almost
immediately, a transparent sheen of energy rises to fll
the window-frame. Flashes of mystical power clash to
form a monstrous face which growls in noiseless wrath
If you wish to continue towards the window, tum to
336, But if you would rather not risk contact with the
Wyrding, you must turn back and either attack the
guards (turn to 223) or try to talk your way out of the
situation (turn to 107)

ee

279-280

279

Gleaming in the lightning-crossed sky, the manhunter
moves in to kill you. If you have an Alchemical
Sphere, turn to 62; if you have the Climb Special Skill,
tum to gt, If you have neither, you will have to fight,
Your foe’s metal skin is well nigh indestructible, so, if
you win a round of combat, you merely parry the
creature’s blows (because of this, the creature is not
given a STAMINA score). The predator's wrist blades,
however, inflict terrible damage; if you lose a round of
combat, deduct 3 points from your stTAMINA, Finally,
at the end of each round, Test your Luck, If you are
Unlucky, continue the battle. If you are Lucky, turn to
43. Now fight!

OBISIAN PREDATOR SKILL 11

280

Shielding your eyes from the sun, you stand stock still
and watch as four hundred riders come tearing round
the hillside. Oh no! They’re carrying banners embla-
zoned with the emblem of the Cabal] of the Werewolf!
Orcs, Trolls, Werebeasts, Brician nobles — the war
criminals veer off the road and race towards you.
Unless you have the Acrobatics Special Skill, Test your
Luck. If you are Unlucky, the horses trample you to
death, But if you are Lucky, or if you have the
Acrobatics Special Skill, you leap aside just in time
and then can only look on as the Cabal speeds away
in the direction of Hope’s End. Dusting yourself
down, you climb to your feet and give chase, Turn
to 29
281-282

281

Though the assassin fought determinedly, it is he who
falls dead; restore 1 LUCK point. A quick search of his
body turns up 3 Gold Pieces and an Alchemical Sphere;
once thrown, this small glass ball will shatter, releasing
a deadly cloud of corrosive mist which you yourself
may take trouble to avoid, should you break the
sphere in a confined area. If you wish to take either of
these items, add them to your Adventure Sheet. Now,
despite the lateness of the hour, it is time to begin
your manhunt. Will you make for Craven Asylum
(turn to 393), for the Last Octopus (turn to 23) or for
Malt Lane {turn to 207), or, if you have reason to do
so, for Priestsgate or Weathern Mill?

282
You lunge at the woman, but she anticipates your move
and sidesteps neatly out of danger. Then she raises a
hand to her monocle and mutters a few eldritch syllables.

283

Almost immediately you are overwhelmed by a mystic
force, and you fall to your knees, stunned (deduct 2
points from your STAMINA and 1 point from your
LUCK), The woman uses your incapacity to slip away,

When you get to your feet, some minutes later, there
is no sign of her. Do you have a Rosy Chalice brooch?
If you do, turn to 197; if you don’t, turn to 218.

283

You smash the crystal into shards of useless glass. The
image of the lock disappears and the temple door flies
open. However, the sword burns you one more time
and you must deduct another 2 points from your
STAMINA. Now you may either strike the sword (turn
to 25), or head out through the open door and hurry
back to the Last Octopus: if the word ‘Cainam’ is
written on your Adventure Sheet, turn to 251; if it is
nok, turn to 277
284-285

284
The rapidly undulating door proves easier to open
‘an you expect, and in mere seconds you find yourself
crossing the threshold of the Necromancer’s abode -
crossing into total darkness

| accept proof of your intent, and admit you to the
Sanctum,’ intones a ghastly voice. The door closes
sehind you and a faint glow illuminates the emaciated
sody of Mawn Pretoragus. You cannot see much of
the room about you, but it seems alive with the
suggestion of things best left unseen. Pretoragus contin-
ues, ‘Van Heldenghast has proffered knowledge as
account in your stead Give me the hand and do not
rollow me through the Door Beyond.’ You look into
,our pack but what's this? The Necromancer al-
ready has the wooden hand in his grasp! He pays you
no heed as he inserts five burning candle-wicks, one
oy one, into the ends of the wooden fingers. Then he
turns and steps through the Door Beyond, leaving
you in darkness once more, Will you follow Pretoragus
through the Door Beyond (turn to 228) or wait for
him in the unyielding blackness of the room (turn to
rgo)?

285
Slipping a drug into somebody's drink or coshing
them from behind is something the graverobbers
are used to; a fair fight is something they're defi-
nitely not! You only have to put up the slightest
resistance before the body-snatchers break off the
attack

286—288

“Who would’a tought that our amicable partnership
would’a fallen to this?’ puffs Hogg. “Yer can’t trust
nobody these days, nobody. Show some mercy, yer
swine! Mister Kilmarney is fit to drop.’ Will you let
the rogues be (turn to 98) or deal with them once and
for all (turn to 123)?

286
When you reach the building with the wooden sign,
you see that beneath the picture of the balances is a
small nameplate. It reads: ‘Kriswell — Moneylender’.
And beneath the nameplate stands a Fogwalker!

FOGWALKER SKILL 7 STAMINA &

If you win, roll one die. If you roll a 6, you have
contracted the plague from your opponent and die in
torment. If you survive, you enter the moneylender’s
place of business — and find it a mess: papers and books
are scattered everywhere, and a sobbing man is slumped
over his desk. Do you have a Baphet-as-Werewolf
icon? If you do, turn to 317; if you do not, turn to 327.

287
‘Big Trubbull for whom?’ you wonder as you turn the
handle of the door. If you have either the Lock Picking
Special Skill or a Brass Key, turn to 77. If you have
neither, Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, tum to 365; if
you are Unlucky, turn to 162.

288
You are still considering the best way to get your
hands on the phial when a voice enters your mind:

289-290

‘Neeeeed foooood ... neeeeed foooood.’ It is the
accursed Skull of Mora Tao, and it wants feeding now!
All you have to do to feed the skull, without Kiennar
noticing, is to shove your hand inside your pack; the
skull will suck your spirit from your fingers! If you
wish to satisfy the skull, deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA and turn to 235. But if you refuse to comply
with the skull’s repulsive demands, turn to 2217.

289
Clad in your Brician finery, you do not have to wait
long before the landlady comes over to you and
whispers in your ear, ‘Welcome, friend. ‘Tis seldom
my humble tavern is attended by such nobility. You
may have whatever you like ... on the house.’ You
thank the landlady, then step back to avoid her rank
breath. But she just leans even closer, ‘And would you
perchance be interested in matters, er, how shall I put
it ... political and mystical?’ It would seem that
Eviron’s servility has all been leading up to this one
crucial, if cryptic, question, Will you answer ‘Yes’ (turn
to 168), or ‘No’ (turn to 14§)?

290
About ten minutes later the City Guard arrive and
Guard Captain Thurtell takes charge. Channing informs
the Captain that the search for the Shocker has met
with no success, ‘No success?’ beams the gruff-voiced
Captain. ‘No success? Why, you've only gone and
captured the murderer of Guard Marshal Bennet.’ Then
he orders his men to seize you! As the guards drag
you away, you cry out that you are on a secret

291-292

mission, but your claim is met with derision. The hunt
for Karam Gruul has been brought to a humiliating
end.

291

Picking up a lantern from the floor, you head backstage
and eventually come to a number of doors. The first
leads to a kitchen, where you find 2 packs of Provi-
sions, which you may take. Next, you come to a room
full of theatrical costumes. Three of these costumes —
those of a Brician noble, or Orc rogue and a Vampire
— could make excellent disguises, However, you have
room in your pack for only one of them, so choose
which of the three you would like, then add it to your
Adventure Sheet. Moving on, you find an office in
which sits a strongbox. You are about to walk over to
the box when you catch a whiff of smoke — the
corridor ahead of you is ablaze, and the fire is spreading
in your direction! If you still wish to examine the
strongbox, turn to 84; but if you would rather hurry
out of the building, turn to 383.

292
You are but a few metres short of the carriage when
its wheels start to roll, The person inside is hidden
from view, but you can see the driver sitting up in
front. Though your footsteps echo loudly in the
narrow street, this strange figure in black cape and tall
black hat never once looks back at you. Soon you are
running alongside the slow-moving vehicle. Only now
do you see that the carriage windows are of black
opaque glass. Will you shout to the driver to stop

293-295

‘turn to 68) or stealthily jump up on to the rear of the
carriage (turn to 396)?

293

The Maniac Guard goes hurtling down from the loft
yet again. And though he utters no cry, his body hits
the ground with a sickening thud. Fearing the worst,
you look down — only to see Conrad sit up and,
machete in hand, reach for the ladder! This is a fight
you cannot hope to win. Will you flee (turn to 165) or
look for another way to defeat your unearthly foe
turn to 308)?

294
You thrust the chain forward, only to see it pull back
and wrap itself round your body. as if possessed of a
will of its own! You have fallen victim of the chain's
unwritten law, that ‘he who touches the chain while it
binds another must release and then destroy the other,
or be bound in place himself’,

As the chain drags you over to the high-back prison
chair, Argolis roars with satisfaction: ‘Free at last! Now
mow the unending midnight of the grave!’ You try to
break free of the chair but can only cry out as it
descends into the pit. You are not a Demothrax; you
will not survive being buried alive.

295
Something is wrong! Walking through the corridors of
the waxworks towards the entrance, you hear a chilling
scream; worse, you then catch the revolting smell of

296-297

charred flesh! Wondering whether this has anything to
do with you and the shroud, you enter the foyer and
come upon a chamel house! The place is littered with
the bodies of slain tourists, and ... no... it can’t be!
Standing in the middle of the room, is Conrad, the
Maniac Guard! The windmill, the fire, the smell of burning
flesh, the REVENGE!

CONRAD,
The Maniac Guard

if you win, turn to 269.

SKILL 10 STAMINA 12

296

You daren’t go to the very bottom of the staircase for
fear of being seen by those in the room below, but
you do go far enough to hear what is being said.
Some kind of ntual is taking place. Most of the words
are mystical gibberish, but the meaning of one speech
is quite clear: The Fraternity of the Rosy Chalice is in
harmony with the Cabal of the Werewolf. I shall go to
the Secret Chiefs at Penkhull to affirm this truth.
Penkhull is a small village, north of the city. You have
heard enough: you tiptoe back up the stairs. If you
have the Sneak Special Skill, turn to 369. If you do not
Test your Luck: if you are Lucky, tum to 369; but if you
are Unlucky, turn to 35.

297
Tightening your grip on the reptile’s necklace, you
give her the promise she seeks. She wheezes with
laughter, her forked tongue flicking in and out of her
mouth: “You are wissse for a warm blood. The top

298-299

ssstep isss a trap. Make noissse and you sssuffer.
Entador isss dead. You should leave asss well. Thisss
Lishek sssaysss,’ Make a note of Lishek’s Warning on
your Adventure Sheet. Now that you have been wamed
about the trap, will you go back on your word and
slay the Xen-Viper (turn to 239), or will you honour
your pledge and let her escape (turn to 324)?

298

The best thing you can think of at such short notice is
to disguise yourself as a Zombie slave, so you tear
your clothing, powder your face with some whitish
sand, then shamble on to the plain with your mouth
hanging open ... CRACK#!! You feel a stinging whip-
lash across your back — deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA ‘Yoo lazy moront’ shouts an overseer, stand-
ing behind you. “Yoo're in the wrong place. Now get
that rock lifted and take it to the tower,’ He points to
a huge block of uncut stone which must weigh a ton!
Nevertheless, the Ore is waiting, Will you do as he
says (tum to 26) or pretend that you don’t understand
(turn to 69)?

299

Just when you think you finally have the creature,
your blow glances off it in a shower of sparks! The
Obisian Predator laughs at your pathetic assault, then
comes at you again. Can you make some use of the
short distance that there now is between you and the
creature? If you wish to leap back to the attack, turn to
182. If you would rather try to concoct another course
of action, tun to 279.
i ; :
ah ;
; ity }
) *
- 4 *
’ ©
’ S, § ; ’
am My
4 ‘
a
’ . {4
a .
Wy AM ‘

300

300
The Cabal are still only half-way up the stairs when
you seize Radu and demand that he tell you where
you will find his master. “You wish to face Karam
Gruul?’ he sneers. Then, to your astonishment, he
grows and grows until his body bursts. His skin splits
from head to foot, and out of the discarded carapace
steps Karam Gruul! ‘There was never any such person
as Radu the Magus,’ he laughs. ‘And now I shall
destroy you.’

It has come to this: you must suffer the effects of
Gruul’s magic until he is too tired to use any more.
You may not eat any Provisions, or do anything else
to restore your attribute scores, until Gruul is done.
To find out how many Notura points Gruul has, roll
one die and add 6 to the number rolled (make a note
of this total on your Adventure Sheef). Then roll one
die to see which spell Gruul casts first. Turn to the
appropriate paragraph, following the instructions, then
retum here and roll again to find out which spell
Gruul casts next. Keep doing this until either you are
dead or Gruul has no Notura points left. If Gruul’s last
spell costs him more Notura points than he has left, the
speil still works. Now, if you roll:

Tum to 335

Tum to 67
Turn to 242
Turn to 257
Turn to 356
Turn to 273

“ gu kw ny »

If

ou survive Gruul's mystic onslaught, turn to 30
301-302

30%
Unwiittingly, the fleeing Man-Orc leads you into the
Cross Keys area of the city, an area commonly known
as the ‘square of delights’, for it proliferates with
taverns, gambling dens, bawdy theatres and parlours
of ill-repute, At this hour, however, the square is
deserted, the houses of pleasure but quiet facades. So
it is with overconfidence that the assassin sneaks
through a side door and into the Rohmer Theatre. You
groan! Rumour has it that this place is haunted by a
phantom who stalks the boards after midnight, and
whose other-wordly dirges on the pipe organ can
drive a man insane with fear. Will you follow the
assassin in through the side door (turn to 394), search
the Rohmer for another entrance (turn to 213), or
Jeave the hall to its legendary phantom and follow
up any other leads you may have {turn to
383)?

302

Urged on by her son, the Kauderwelsch monster will
not rest until you are lying on the bad Doktor’s table.
If at any time during the battle you roll a double for
the monster’s Attack Strength, it uses its great strength
to break your weapon. If you have a weapon and
this occurs, remember to deduct 1 point from your
SKILL,

KAUDERWELSCH

MONSTER SKILL 11 STAMINA 14

If you reduce the monster’s sTAMINA score to 4 or
less, turn to 183,

5037304

393

Pulling the Vampire costume out of your pack, you
stride forward, waving it, and say, ‘This is your vam-
dire, a simple disguise,’ But the people are not at all
convinced; they seize you and tie you to the cemetery
gates, ‘We'll decide if yer a vampire, by special tests,’
crows Hogg. ‘Fer example, it’s said that if yer stick a
dagger in a vampire, it'll cry out!’

At the end of the day, however, you are able to prove
=o everyone’s satisfaction that you are no more a
vampire than the King of Gallantaria: you eat garlic,
vou hold a cross, you jump over a puddle, you stroke
a horse and so on, until at last the mob sets you free...
nut not before a disappointed Hogg has pocketed ail
your money as ‘expenses’. Cross any gold you have off
your Adventure Sheet, add 4 Hours and return to 200.

304

Despite the risks of unleashing the deadly gas in a
closed environment, you take the Alchemical Sphere
out of your pack and lob it into the middle of the
villainous assembly. Chaos erupts immediately; some
Cabal members dissolve in the mist, while others flee
in all directions. You use the confusion to reach the
two ornate pillars which support the balcony, some
chirty metres above the ground. Radu sees you and
shouts, ‘The Bounty Hunter!’ A good many of your
‘oe still have enough presence of mind to come after
you. If you have the Lock Picking Special Skill, turn to
208; if you have the Climb Special Skill, tum to 249; if
vou have neither of these skills, turn to 122,
3°$—397

305

Even your strongest blows fail to penetrate an invisible
barrier, formed round the Demothrax by the magic
chain. Argolis revels in the futility of your attack:
‘Now that you have touched the chain, there is no
turning back!’ As she speaks, some large maggots fall
on to you; deduct 2 points from your STAMINA. If you
remove the chain from Argolis, turn to 22; if you
would rather flee than risk unleashing such evil, turn
to 8x.

306

You wait for the lock to spin round before you, then
you strike, But even as your arm descends, the shield
crystal glows brighter. Your blow glances off the lock,
the shield grows dim again and both spheres continue
along their uncanny path; the sword, however, blazes
orange once more. You cry out in pain — deduct 2
points from your sTAMiNA. Which crystal will you
strike at next: the sword (turn to 4o) or the shield (tum
to 366)?

3°7

While the barrel-maker is occupied, you search through
the pockets of the dead man’s tunic and find a snack
(enough for 1 meal), a brooch depicting a golden
chalice resting on a stylized rose of red enamel, and a
small handwritten note which reads: ‘Eternal Fraternity
of the Rosy Chalice — midnight — the Last Octopus’.
Regain 1 Luck point and, if you wish to take the meal
or the Rosy Chalice brooch or both, add them to your
Adventure Sheet.

308

Channing is finished, so you quickly get back to your
feet. Will you now offer to help look for the Shocker
(turn to 345), stay here and await developments (turn
to 290) or return to the Last Octopus (turn to 253)?

308

You reckon that your best bet would be to strike
Conrad while he is still on the ladder, so you cast
about the loft for a suitable weapon. You may drop a
large bale of hay on him (tum to 111), take the oil
lantern and throw it down at his head (turn to 214), or
snatch up a long pitchfork and use it to impale him
when he reaches the top of the ladder (turn to 4)

ee «ee
309-511

309
It is only when you regain the riverbank that you
tealize you may have lost some of your belongings in
the water. For each item on your Adventure Sheet (treat
all your Provisions as one item and your gold likewise)
roll one die. If you roll a 5 or 6, you have lost the item
and must cross it off your Adventure Sheet.

You are still checking to see what you have lost when
you remember that this area is said to be the haunt of
the Shocker — an unknown fiend which frightens
victims to death before vanishing into the night. But it
is not the Shocker who slurs, ‘Oi! Give us a shiny, an’
V'll tell yer wot ‘appened ‘ere last night,’ The voice
belongs to an old woman, clad in rags. If you wish to
give the beggar a Gold Piece, turn to 2; if not, turn to

44.

310
All but a handful of the Cabal lie dead; the rest have
fled. A great cheer is taken up by the soldiers and by
their captain; the latter thanks you for your help. You,
however, have little to smile about, for when you turn
to fetch Gruul, you see that he has escaped! Unnoticed
amid the confusion of battle, he managed to untie his
bonds and slip away. If you have the Tracking Special
Skill, turn to 240; if you do not, turn to 267.

311
Jubar brings the thimbles to a halt You look at all
three in feigned worry, then deliberately point to one
which does not cover the Gold Piece. DeMonto reveals
your choice with a self-satisfied smile. Please,’ you

412

beg, ‘another go. I need that money. I’ve no more
gold, but if 1 lose I'll give you all my belongings.’

The old man’s eyes widen with greed; they take in
even the shirt on your back, ‘Sure thing, my friend.
And just to keep it fair, if you win, I'll give you your
two shinies back plus fwenty of my own, Deal?’

It sure is! Make a note of the stakes on your Adventure
Sheet, then turn to 82.

312

You have beaten Baron Milescu in mortal combat, but
you lack the means to end his Undead existence. Even
as you watch, the Vampire Lord’s fallen body turns
into mist and floats away. You can do nothing to
prevent his escape and are forced to admit that, while
you may be safe, you are ultimately responsible for
the victims the Baron will surely claim when he makes
good his complete recovery elsewhere. Cross the blood
off your Adventure Sheef, return to the paragraph
you came from and continue your adventure

ee
S .

313-314

anS

“Midnight: time for the meeting of the Fraternity of the
nosy Chalice. You enter the tavern and show your
srooch to a man, who leads you — via a secret door
and a flight of stairs — to an elaborate temple. There,
you see forty cultists, Rosichalcians, wearing robes of
curple silk. Their Imperator, the haughty woman you
saw earlier, raises her arms and announces, ‘The gather-
ng will commence with the initiation of a new Adept.’
She points to you, ‘Initiate, you must pass the ritual of
Baphet or die.’ You don’t like the sound of this, but
what can you do? The woman chants, ‘Baphet, Baphet,
come to me!’ A pool of green slime wells up through
‘ne marble floor at your feet. In seconds, the stuff
-hickens, solidifies, then starts to rise! The Rosichalcians
zasp in awe as a Monstrous apparition takes shape and
reaches out for you with its talons, Will you attack the
creature (turn to 333) or do nothing and await the
nevitable (turn to 42)?

314
You step up on to the black of the guillotine a little
too heavily, The woodwork shakes and the old rope,
nolding the blade at the top of the guillotine, snaps.
The deadly razor’s edge comes hurtling down towards
vou! Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, you manage to
rump off the block without injury; but if you are
Unlucky, the falling blade catches you and you must
deduct 4 points from your sTAMINA. Rising to your feet,
vou see that the doorman is heading towards you, If you
wish to rejoin the party now, in the hope of buying the
shroud from Hollmann, turn to 78, Otherwise, you had
415-316

better leave the Chamber of Horrors while you still can,
If the word ‘Cainam’ is written on your Adventure Sheet,
turn to 29§; otherwise, add 1 Hour and return to 200.

3¥5

When you reach the gates of the cemetery, you find
Kilmarney and Hogg waiting for you, and they are
not alone. They are at the head of a band of two
dozen men, carrying torches, crosses and sharp wooden
stakes. ‘There it be!’ shouts Hogg, ‘just as T was tellin’
yer. A biloomin’ great vampire! Tried to drag me
business partner into an early grave, it did!’

A roar rises from the menfolk, and they storm into the
graveyard. If you have the Sneak Special Skill, turn to
186. If you do not, will you fight your way out of the
cemetery (turn to 15x) or submit to the perilous
vagaries of mob justice (turn te 303)?

316

Blindly you fumble your way through corridor after
corridor until you hear a horrible scream, followed by
a manic dirge played on the theatre's pipe organ! If
you wish to follow the sound of the crazed music back
to its player, turn to 260. If you would rather hurry
back out through the side door and leave the Rohmer
while you still can, turn to 383.

317-320

317
Kriswell sits up, his face streaked with tears, Before he
can say anything, however, you show him the icon
and tell him that you have come to join the Rosichal
can Inner Order. A bitter smile crosses his face. “Well,
Adept, you won't get far in the frie Inner Order if
your political interests are as Gallantarian as your
accent. Still, the Secret Chiefs are your problem. I no
longer care.’ He hands you a Red Key, ‘Open the door
with the rose handle, but count to ten before you
enter. Add the key to your Adventure Sheet and also
make a note of the word ‘Rednel’. You ask Kriswell
why he has been crying, but he cannot answer; turn to

327.

418
‘Well?’ snaps Maxillon Crabb, deputy director of the
asylum. ‘What do you want, you stained receptacle of
Ore’s phlegm?’ If you have the Con Special Skill, turn
to 246, Otherwise, Test yowr Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 246. If you are Unlucky, turn to 128

319
The drawer is made of strong oak, so prising it open
will require finesse rather than brute force. Test your
Skill but, as this task is a particularly difficult one, add
1 to your roll. If you succeed, turn to 18g. If you fail,
turn to 149

320
You reach out with both hands and make a grab for
one of the vanes, then you cling on for dear life as it

32r

turns slowly round and down. When the blade comes
to its lowest point, some five metres above the ground,
you let go and fall, landing on your feet with almost
cat-like grace. For escaping death at the hands of the
Maniac Guard, regain 1 Luck point. Also, make a note
of the word ‘Cainam’ on your Adventure Sheet.

It is only when you have reached the safety of the
shanty town that you pause to watch the collapse of
Weathern Mill; soon the tower is but a smoking ruin.
You will have to continue your hunt for Karam Graul
elsewhere. If you haven't done so already, will you go
to Craven Asylum (turn to 393), to the Last Octopus
(turn to §7) or to Malt Lane (turn to 207)?

321
The shopkeeper, Kiennar, isn’t quite the browbeaten
coward you took him to be. When you robbed him,

mor ‘ y
oe eg

nes
-

322

he sneakily managed to exchange the phial of dried
blood for one filled with red food-colouring! The
useless powder offers you no protection against the
Skein of Undoing; cross all the Special Skills off your
Adventure Sheet. Perhaps this will teach you to deal
more honestly with good folk in future — that is, if
you have a future! If the word ‘Esproc’ is written on
your Adventure Sheet, tam to 188; otherwise, return to
300,

322

Part of Van Heldenghast’s Rime springs to mind:
‘Return to ifs place’. Following a hunch, you throw one
end of the chain over a candelabra which hangs above
the centre of the room. Then you grab both ends of
the chain, heave yourself up and swing forward. The
Demothrax is almost upon you when your feet catch
her squarely in the chest and send her flying back into
the pit from which she came. Clouds of smoke billow
up into the room, and the whole floor quakes as the
pit clases for one last time, Argolis is no more
323-324

Add the Chain of Argolis to your Adventure Sheet. At
the start of any battle you may use the chain to bind
any single opponent, except Gruul: just cross the chain
off your Adventure Sheet and continue as if you had
won the battle. Now, add 2 Hours and return to 200,

323

Congratulations! The moment you finish translating
the runes, the Mask of Belthegor falls into your hands.
You may wear the mask and claim Belthegor’s Gift at
any time, except during a battle. If you decide to do
so, you will gain one extn Special Skill af your choice
pick a new Special Skill and tick the appropriate box
on your Aidventire Sheet, However, once you claim
Belthegor’s Gift. the mask will disappear and you must
cross it aff your Adcenture Sheet, Now add = Hours
and return to 200.

324

Hissing with seor, Lishek slips out of your grasp and
slinks away into the night ‘The Massster will deal
with you. The Massster. Ss ss sssss." You begin to
wonder if you have done the right thing in allowing
the deceitful reptile to escape. Write down the word
‘Kehsil’ on your Adventure Sheet. Now, you may either
continue up the stairs to Entadar's lodgings (turn to
398) of, if you are having second thoughts, leave Mal!
Lane and continue your investigations elsewhere: If
you haven't already done so, you may 0 to either
Craven Asylum (turn to 393} or the Last Octopus
ihurn to-§7), or, if -you have reason to do so, Priestspate
or Weathern Mill,

oR (i lg

325-326

325
Just as things are starting to look bleak, you notice
that there’s a keyhole in the gate, enabling you to lock
the gate in the face of the undead host. Then, while
the Zombies are still mindlessly walking into the
locked barrier, you hurry across to the far side of the
enclosure and find two gates leading into the tower. If
you have the Tracking Special Skill, turn to 132. If you
do not, will you enter the tower by the gate on the
left (turn to 114) or the gate on the right (turn to 199)?

326

Other than the tiny bones your search tums up noth-
ing Suddenly, you hear footsteps approaching Some-
one is creeping along the short corridor outside. Could
it be Kilmarney and Hogg, back to plague you with
their distinctive brand of treachery? You rush back out
of the room and see ... no one; the comidor is quite
empty. Will you look through the north door (turn to
386) or the east door (turn to 238)?
327-328

527
The man is suddenly overcome by a coughing fit.
‘They said it was important,’ he splutters, ‘said it had
to be me, or the plans of the Cabal would come to
nothing. But why me?’ He lifts his face ~ it is covered
with weeping sores! ‘Help me,’ he whines, ‘Help .
meee!’

What then follows is a deadly game of cat and mouse
as Kriswell Iurches towards you for help. If the money-
lender touches you, you too will catch the plague and
die. Unless you have the Acrobatics Special Skill, Test
your Luck twice. If you fail in either test, Kriswell
clutches you with his infected hands and drags your
adventure to a ghastly finish. But if you are Lucky
both times — or if you have the Acrabatics Special Skill
— you manage to avoid the moneylender until at last
he falls to the floor and dies. If you do not already
have one, you find a Red Key lying on the floor — add
it to your Adventure Sheet

Will you now search Kriswell’s home (turn to 259) or
leave it and run to the bonfire (turn to 21), to the bell-
tower (tur to 397), to the door with the red cross
(turn to 48), or to the door with the rose-shaped
handle (turn to 158)?

328
By the time you have returned to the vicinity of the
Guard Post, the Man-Orc assassin is long gone. If you
have the Tracking Special Skill, turn to 4x. Otherwise,
you have no choice but to start your hunt for Karam
Gruul, despite the lateness of the hour. Where will you
329

go first. to Craven Asylum (turn to 393), the Last
Octopus {tum to 23) or to Malt Lane (turn to 207), or,

if you have reason to go there, to Priestsgate or
Weathern Mill?

329

‘Fank yer very kindly, boss,’ croaks one of the Provasts
as he snatches up the bribe in one of his grubby hands
(cross the Gold Pieces off your Adventure Sheet). But
what happens next takes even you by surprise: the
wretch refuses to split the money with his colleague!
So whichever way the Provosts look now is no longer
the issue — they are far too busy fighting each other
over the cash to be bothered with you and your
‘stupid’ request; turn to rro.

Ww %, ri % 7 q L ‘f %
or. a, ig Y ’ Ae Ss 79 |) ut
nin: . 2 a ’ ? zt lis Me . i i
ot Ps ' =) ew +f

330-332

330
Jubar takes your gold with a smile that displays

tobacco-stained teeth, places a coin under one of the
thimbles, then sets to work. The three thimbles circle
in and out of one another with incredible speed and
DeMonto seeks to distract you with his patter: ‘Ten
for two, that’s all you have to do. Keep your eyes on
the money pot, choose aright and you've won the lot.’

If you have the Sleight of Hand Special Skill and wish
to win the game, turn to 82; if you have that same
Special Skill and want to /ose, in the hope of fooling
DeMonto into playing a second game for higher
stakes, turn to 311, But if you do not have the Special
Skill, Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 82; if
you are Unlucky, turn to 102.

331
‘I don’t know what you think you're up to, but in my

book it’s called robbing the dead.’ Channing levels his
sword at your throat. ‘Get up" It would be foolish to
do anything other than what the barrel-maker de-
mands, so you rise slowly to your feet. Two men rush
up and pin your arms behind your back. ‘The City
Guard will be here soon,’ says Channing sternly.
‘They'll know what to do with you.’ The City Guard!
You could soon be in big trouble. If you have the Con
Special Skill, turn to 194; if you do not, turn to 299.

332
It is common knowledge that no one could ever hope
to enter or leave Craven Asylum without the consent

of its keepers, so you simply walk up to the door and

Be
333-334

knock. The door opens and a warden steps out — it is
an armed and ugly Troll! ‘Clear off’ he barks. ‘No
rooms, no callers, no nuffink!’ Then he stamps back
inside and closes the door. You knock again but there
is no reply, It is with a heavy heart that you realize
you must simply walk away from the plight of Matra
Ouspenskaya and from a possible lead in the hunt for
Karam Gruul. Now, if you haven't done so already,
you may visit either the Last Octopus (turn to 57) or
Malt Lane (turn to 207), or, if you have reason to go
there, Priestsgate or Weather Mill.

333

You pull back from the thing that is Baphet and it is
gone! The Imperator makes some strange passes with
her hands, then says, “The creature was but an illusion
Nevertheless, you have shown us that you lack the
inner fortitude necessary for the mantle of Adept. You
may not join the august and most secret Fraternity of
the Rosy Chalice. Nor may you divulge its ordered se-
crets.’

As one, the Rosichalcians pull out long knives from
under their robes. Gulp! If you havea Stage Knife,
turn to 116. If you do not, will you surrender to the
Imperator (turn to 35) or try to fight your way out of
the place (turn to 179)?

334
You run through the Professor's words a final time:

‘At the Wayside Shrine of Belthegor — an ancient
deity associated with the power of second life — you

e——eee

334

will find a marble mask set prominently in one of the
walls. It is said that he who removes and wears the
mask will receive Belthegor’s Gift, but therein lies the
problem. All attempts to free the mask have ended in
disastrous failure, ] believe that the answer lies in the
odd runes which adorn the Shrine. Understand these
forgotten symbols, and the mask will be yours.’

When you reach the crowded Southgate Bridge, you
feel someone press a note into your hand; who, it is
impossible to tell in the shuffling masses, The note
reads: ‘Gruul. The Cabal. Sanger’s Beacon, Now. Make
sure you are not followed.’ Will you continue on your
way to the Shrine of Belthegor (turn to 210) or go to
meet your mysterious contact at Sanger's Beacon (turn
to 380)?

435-337

335
Gruul has had enough of your tiresome meddling; he

conjures up a murderous sac of black gel that comes
twitching and wobbling through the air towards you
Deduct 6 points from Gruul’s Nofura. If you do not
have the Skull of Mora Tao, the giant amoeboid jerks
forward and absorbs you into its amorphous depths —
your adventure ends here. But if you do have the
skull, the apparition backs off at the last moment and
disappears. If the word ‘Esproc’ is written on your
Adventure Sheet, turn to 188; if it is not, return to 300,

336

Only when your shoulder slams into the bestial face
do you hear the Wyrding’s roar. An agonizing pain
grips you and flings you back into the room. You
have foolishly clashed with a powerful Minor Magic
and must now pay the price, Deduct 2 points from
your STAMINA and i point from both your current
and Initial Luck and sxitt scores. The Wyrding ripples
and contorts in victory, while the guards gather round
your shivering body. Will you now try and tell
Furneaux the truth about Bennet’s death (turn to 107),
or will you attack the Captain and his men (turn to
223)?

337
Wh ... what? You catch yourself dozing and jump up

out of the rowing boat. Across the way, the tavern
door opens and a sinister-looking figure emerges, Clad
from head to foot in a grey hooded cloak, the shady
character hurries out on to the street and walks briskly

338-339

away. Embroidered on the back of the stranger’s cloak
is the Mark of the Werewolf! If you wish to tail the
hooded figure, turn to 139. If not, is the word ‘Cainam’
written on your Adventure Sheef? If it is, turn to 251;
otherwise, turn to 297,

338

You are unconscious before you even hit the ground.
Hogg tut-tuts in disappointment, ‘Yer would’a t'ought
the hero would’a been made o’ sterner stuff than that,
wouldn’t yer, Mister Kilmarney? Never mind. A fresh
body should fetch us a good market price ~ enough
fer a week’s Dark Horse, eh?’ Then he drops down
into the grave beside you. Kilmamey passes him a
rope. Later that day, Mervyn Tillinghast, doctor in
experimental anatomy, examines your body, Satisfied
that you are quite dead, he pays the body-snatchers
the usual price — no questions asked!

339
Picking up a lantern from the floor, you head backstage

and along a corridor, which has five other doors
leading off it The first leads to a kitchen, where you
find 2 meals’ worth of Provisions, which you may
take. The second door opens into an office in which
sits a wooden strongbox, You are about to enter this
room when you catch the smell of smoke. The corridor
ahead of you is on fire, and the fire seems to be
spreading with unnatural swiftness towards you! If,
despite this danger, you wish to take a look at the
strongbox, turn to 84. If you would rather hurry out
of the building, turn to 383.
~ sees hate Litt |

At
&

~<

340-341

340
Kiennar’s Curiosity Shop stands in a quiet alley near
busy Newham Market. As you step up to the half-
hidden doorway, you recall the Professor’s words: ‘Go
to Kiennar and tell him I sent you. He will do the rest.’

A tiny bell tinkles overhead as you enter a forgotten
world of arcane antiquity. ‘Can I help you?’ Kiennar
asks from behind his counter. Wasting no time, you
tell him why you are here. As you speak, he breaks
out in a cold sweat; when you finish, he asks, ‘Did Van
Heldenghast tell you what it is you're supposed to be
buying?’ Fingers trembling, he reaches beneath the
counter and produces a glass phial filled with an iron-
red powder. ‘Did she tell you that you were to buy
this dried blood? Not just any blood, mind you, but
the blood of Baron Milescu, Vampire Lord of Vannan!’
A shocked gasp escapes your lips. ‘Still want to buy?’
Kiennar smirks, ‘If you do, itll cost you forty Gold.’ If
you wish to pay, cross the 40 Gold Pieces off your
Adventure Sheet and turn to 258. If you want the blood
but cannot or will not pay so much money, turn to
reg But if you would rather leave the blood with
Kiennar, add 1 Hour and return to 200

34%
You plunge into the middle of the heaving mass of

bodies and wait until the flustered doorman is busy
with someone else, then you make your move. If you
have the Sneak Special Skill, you manage to worm
your way inside without a hitch (turn to 130). But if
you do not have this Special Skill, you find yourself
342

being collared by the doorman. ‘Now, now. That'll be
three shinies,’ he barks. If you pay the admission fee,
cross 3 Gold Pieces off your Adventure Sheet and turn
to 130. If you refuse, you will have to leave — add 1
Hour and return to 200,

342

Gruul seems to be on the brink of an uncontrollable
madness when you drop the torch, and then he calms
down. He leads you out of the village — the mist and
the Fogwalkers posing no obstacle to him — so that you
may both begin the long trek back to Royal Lendle
Gruul is resigned to defeat, so you make good progress.
Indeed, you cover ten kilometres before disaster strikes!
Bolts of death descend from the sky, and your prisoner
gloats, ‘Gruul has succeeded! He has conquered the
power of Notura.’ Before your very eyes, the Mandrake
replica of Karam Gruul reverts to its natural, plant-like
form! The bitter taste of defeat sticks in your craw as a
devastating bolt of Notura turns your body inside out!

343

343

As you are walking towards the Last Octopus, you
hear someone call out to you from an alleyway. In the
half-dark, you can just make out a fall thin man, clad in
silken robes and with a veil hiding his face. His left
hand is extended in welcome. ‘Your continued interfer-
ence in my plans has proven your worth. Look to my
feet’ You do so and see that the man is standing on a
small mound of Gold Pieces. ‘Join my organization,
and all this gold, more than the Ruling Council could
ever hope to pay you, is yours,’ Will you:

Pretend to accept the masked man’s
offer? Turn to 34

Leap to the attack? Turn to 375
Throw an Alchemical Sphere at him,

if you have one? Turn to 227
Refuse and simply walk away? Turn to 399

34474345

344
Mawn Pretoragus resides in Divil’s Lane, an unfre-

quented avenue that lurks in unbroken seclusion be-
neath a permanent veil of mist. You shiver as you step
into the mist and make your way along to Pretoragus’s
abode, There, you are afflicted by a feeling of nausea,
for the Necromancer’s sanctum is composed of con-
stantly shifting angles! But you suppress your doubts
and knock on the queerly undulating door. Once .
twice .. your knocks resound through the fog but are
met with no answer. Dare you try the door handle? If
so, turn to 176. If you prefer not to, there is no reason
to remain here; add 2 Hours and return to 200

345
You approach Channing and tell him that you would

like to lead one of the search-parties. He nods and puts
you in charge of a particularly hardy-looking bunch
The folk are eager to be on their way, so you waste
no time in setting off down Carter Street. If you have
some clue as to where the Shocker might be, turn tc
the paragraph whose number you know. But if you
aren't quite sure where to look for the fend, turn te

73:

346-348

346
What strange madness is at work here? You can only

watch in disbelief as the wild horses pull the carriage
over into the filthy waters of the deep river. Harnessed
to the heavy coach, the animals struggle in vain
against the drowning tide; but you suffer no such
restraints and are able to swim free of the sinking
carriage, Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 363;
if you are Unlucky, turn to 309.

347
You leap forward and grab the bat by its leathery

wings, As you pull the creature back into the room, it
snaps at you with its needle-like fangs.

BLOOD BAT SKILL 5 STAMINA 6

If you win, you may search the room more thoroughly
(turn to 326); or you may leave it and try either the
north door (tum to 386) or the east door (turn to
141).

348

Initially it looks as if Deputy Director Crabb is going
to explode with rage, but when he sees that it is you
he stands up and bows. ‘Changed your mind about
taking some refreshment? he asks. If you say ‘Yes’,
turn to 36. Otherwise, you tell Crabb that you have
lost your way, apologize for the intrusion, then head
back into the hall. There, if you have not done so
already, you may enter Big Laffs (turn to 220), Nosh
(tur to 275), Big Trubbull (turn to 287) or Fat Maggots
{tum to 117).
349-359

349
Khaki-coloured greasepaint, false tusks, a coarse wig, a

flea-bitten tunic — you make the perfect Orc rogue! All
you have to do to complete the illusion is hunch your
back and spit every five seconds. You practise this for
a moment, then you feel the tip of a dagger pressed
up against your throat. One of the overseers has
caught you by surprise. ‘Who d’yoo fink yoo iz, pal?’
he grunts. In reply, you say that you have an urgent
message which you will only give to one of the
‘bigwigs’. If you have the Con Special Skill, turn to
224. If you do not, Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 224; but if you are Unlucky, turn to 153,

350
Before you know it, Conrad is upon you With his
gleaming machete, the Maniac Guard is stalking, relent-
less death on two legs.

CONRAD,

The Maniac Guard SKILL 10 STAMINA 12

If you win, turn to 293.

351-352

351
Your request intrigues the landlady. She leans forward

and regards you with a conspiratorial eye. “The Frater-
nity?’ she whispers in wafts of vile breath ‘Who wants
to know?’ If you are disguised as a Brician noble or if
you have the Con Special Skill, tum to 168; otherwise,
turn to 145

352

Overcome by your desperate defence, the bloodthirsty
Baron falls to the ground. Before his mortal wounds
have time to heal, you press down on him with your
sharpened stake and plunge it deep into his heart. The
Baron's gargled cries drift away on a supernal wind,
and soon he is dust once more. The dark powder is
blown away by the gale, destroying the Baron for all
eternity. Cross the Blood of Baron Milescu and the
stake off your Adventure Sheef, but restore 1 LUCK
point for your great victory. Now return to the para-
graph you came from and continue your adventure.

, ere

353-354

353
The instant you lunge at the glistening serpent, she

sheds her disguise and turns to face you. Two long
fangs sprout from her gums; luckily for you, it looks as
if she has recently discharged all her venom. All the
same, the Xen-Viper is a slippery opponent who has
escape in mind. At the start of each Attack Round,
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, fight the round as
normal; but if you are Unlucky, the Xen-Viper escapes.
When Testing your Luck in this way, do not deduct the
usual 1 point from your LUCK

XEN-VIPER SKILL 8 STAMINA 7

If the Xen-Viper escapes, turn to 9. But if you reduce
her STAMINA to 3 points or less, tum to 146.

354
Hogg gasps in relief. ‘Oh, it’s youl Yer had us goin’
there fer a moment with yer grand fine jest. If it wasn’t
fer yer touchin’ the cross, I’d have t’ought yer were a
vampire!’ Then he bursts into laughter. Feeling rather
stupid, you take off your disguise and help bring
Kilmarney out of his swoon. This done, the body-
snatchers lead you to an unmarked grave, deep within
the eerie cemetery. ‘Down here,’ Hogg says, ‘is the
door to a hidden crypt. That’s where yer'll find yer
skull.’

Then the rogues pick up their spades and start to dig.
They are waist deep in the grave when Hogg pants,
‘Mercy! I canna dig no more. Me lungs are creakin’
with the strain. Yer better help, if yer wannit done
355-357

quickly.’ If you are willing to start digging, turn to 08,
but if you are quite happy to wait while the men have
a rest, turn to 202

355
The moment your foot touches the ground, you are

swept up in a net and left dangling in the air. This is
no ordinary net, however, for it is made of sharp, thin
wire — wire which starts to constrict! You have but
minutes to free yourself, before the tightening net
slices through you! If you have the Sleight of Hand
Special Skill, turn to 166. If you do not, Test your Skill
adding 2 to the roll to reflect the unique difficulty of
your present situation. If you succeed, turn to 166; i
you fail, turn to 373.

356
‘A curse on your luck, Bounty Hunter,’ Gruul spits
Then he waves his fingers before you in a sign of the
Evil Eye. Deduct 2 points from Gruul's Nofura. If you
have the Chain of Argolis, Gruul’s quaint gesture has
no effect; but if you do not have the chain, you musi
deduct 1 point from your Luck. Now, if the word
‘Esproc’ is written on your Adventure Sheet, turn to
188; otherwise, return to 300,

357
When you reach the alley, you see that it leads

nowhere. Nor do you see any sign of the Shocker, it
has lived up to its reputation and vanished. Or so ii
seems for, upon turning to walk away, you [rip over
the edge of a raised manhole cover. The creature musi

ae

358

have ‘vanished’ down into the sewers! Given the
fiend’s head start, you would never be able to find it
down in that malodorous labryinth now. But if your
paths should ever cross again, you may get a chance
to use your knowledge. If so, turn to 378 (make a note
of this paragraph number on your Adventure Sheet),
regain 1 LucK point for your discovery. Now you
must leave the docklands and continue your hunt, Will
you head for Craven Asylum (turn to 393), Malt Lane
(turn to 207) or, if you have reason to do so, for
Priestsgate or Weathern Mill?

Glancing downwards, you notice five sets of footprints
leading up to the mask. Judging by the state of the
prints, you would guess that they had been made
within the last hour. You also see fresh cracks in the
stonework surrounding the mask and . . . wait a minute!
There are no footprints leading away from the mask
Turn to 1§9.

359-360

359

‘L’ you announce, drawing yourself to your full height,
‘am the City Physician, and I've come to collect a
specimen of vital anatomical interest. One of the
hands of the men you have hanging there is riddled
with Bone-Rot, a degenerative disease of the. , .’

‘All right, all right! Stuff a hose in it, yer stinkin’ gas-
bag! We don’t want yer stinkin’ Bone-Rot. Take yer
fingerz an’ clear off!’ The Provost won't tell you twice,
so turn to 110,

360
Words tumble hurriedly from between your lips, but
even now you dare not reveal your secret mission: ‘I
came here in pursuit of a Vampiric Shapeshifter. It
killed the Marshal and is now free inside this tower
We _.. wait a minute, Did you three come here to-
gether?’

Your ploy has an immediate effect; each of the guards
pauses to consider whether either of his fellows could
possibly be the ‘Shapeshifter’. You use their distrac-
tion to push your way through them and make for
the door. You hurry down the spiral staircase and, in
no time at all, are back out on the cobblestoned
streets of Blackhaven. There is no sign of any assassin
so, despite the lateness of the hour, you decide to
press on with your manhunt, Will you now go to
Craven Asylum {tum to 393), to the Last Octopus
(turn to 23) or to Malt Lane (turn to 209), or, if you
have reason to do so, to Priestsgate or Weathern
Mill?

361

361

Making sure that you are in clear view of everyone
else in the tavern, you stand alone in a comer at the
end of the long, L-shaped bar. Pinned to the wall there
is a printed sheet extolling the virtues of something
called the Eternal Fraternity of the Rosy Chalice. You
may read this sheet now, but not in future, by turning
to the illustration opposite paragraph 39 — do not read
the paragraph itself. Once you have read the sheet,
return here

if you are disguised as a Brician noble, turn to 289;
otherwise, turn to 136.

362-363

362
The Border River is calm tonight, but what of the Last
Octopus? You cannot help but wonder what might be
going on within that miserable place A bird flies
overhead. No, nota bird. .

The Jai-Hulud sorcerer assassin rolls through the air
then drops to his feet behind you, The Jai-Hulud’s
incredible acrobatic prowess is enhanced by his magical
ability. If you have the Acrobatics Special Skill, fight
your foe as normal; if you do not, each Attack Round
roll three dice for your opponent and use the two
highest numbers rolled to find his Attack Strength
The assassin laughs villainously, spreads his twin
blades, then springs forward

JAI-HULUD SKILL 9 STAMINA 8

If you win, turn to §4.

363

The swim back to the wharf is a short one, and soon
you are gasping for air in the shadow of a derelict
warehouse. Cold and alone, you suddenly recall that
this area is shunned during the hours of darkness,
because it is the domain of the Shocker! This unknown
fiend is said to frighten its victims to death before
disappearing into the night, You are still thinking
about this hair-raising topic when a tap on your
shoulder nearly makes you jump out of your skin. It is
with relief that you turn to face a harmless old beggar
‘Give us a shiny,’ she coughs, ‘an I'll tell yer wot I seen
last night’ If you wish to give the beggar a Gold
Piece, turn to 2. If you prefer not to, turn to 44

364

364

The cape and fangs are a perfect fit And once you
have applied some black powder to your eyes and
some red stuff to your lips, the illusion is complete. A
short while later, you see Kilmarney and Hogg heading
your way; they are each carrying a spade. Stifling the
urge to snigger, you step out and bare your fangs,
Both of them fling their tools aside in terror, then
Hogg screams and Kilmamey faints.

‘Silence!’ you shout, ‘Now that you are near my
graveyard domain, you will do my bidding or suffer
the bite of the Undead.’

But Hogg has recovered his wits. He whips a cross out
from under his tunic and cries, ‘Back, yer unholy var-
mint!’

Without thinking, you teach forward and knock the
cross out of his hand. Tesf your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 161; if you are Unlucky, turn to 354.

365-366

365

The handle turns, releasing a poison-tipped needle
which misses your thumb by a hair's breadth. The
door itself is locked; if you later find a Brass Key, you
may choose to come this way again, even though you
may not normally choose a door you have already
been through. Now retum to the hall and choose a
door you haven’t already been through. Will you try
Big Laffs (turn to 220), Nosh (turn to 275), Fat Maggots
(turn to 117) or Wipefeet (turn to 58)?

367-368

367

Though you feel a little guilty about committing such
a blatant act of robbery, you advise Kiennar that it
would be better for his health if he simply gave you
the blood. ‘All right, all right,’ he stammers, ‘take it
and may the gods have mercy on you.’ You snatch the
phial from his trembling hands and hurry out of the
shop. Make a note of the word ‘Ranneik’ on your
Adventure Sheet, add 1 Hour and return to 200,

The protective power of the shield crystal works for
the other two globes, but not for itself. lt explodes
into powdery fragments and the image of the shield
fades away. Already the atmosphere of the temple
seems less oppressive — add 1 point to your Lucx
The sword crystal spins before your eyes, glowing
orange. Your body arches in pain yet again; deduct 2
points from your sTAMINA, Will you now strike at the
sword (turn to 2§) or the lock (turn to 283)?

368

You look up and a gobbet of steaming blood trickles
into your eyes! Deduct 2 points from your STAMINA.
As you stumble round the room in blind agony, you
are only marginally aware of the large bat that spat
the stuff into your face. But when you wipe the
stinging dribbles away, you see that the bat is making
for the open door. Will you attack it before it can
escape (furn to 347) or let it go free (turn to 255)?
369-370

369

Dawn is still a few hours away when you complete
the four-kilometre journey to Penkhull. This tiny vil-
lage is dominated by a lofty bell-tower, standing in
the main square — where you also find a man heaping
bodies on to a bonfire! The man growls, ‘Don’t you
know there be plague in Penkhull? Fogwalkers bring
it with ‘em. Look!’

You turn and see that a wall of fog has descended on
the outskirts of the village. The man’s eyes widen with
terror: ‘They come!’ Out of the fog shuffle dozens of
Zombie-like creatures, The man tries to flee, but the
Fogwalkers have him. Three buildings are within run-
ning distance: the door of one is daubed with a red
cross; the doorknob of another is carved in the shape
of a rose; over the third door hangs a wooden sign
depicting a set of balances. Will you:

Make your stand by the bonfire? Turn to 2z
Climb up the bell-tower? Turn to 397
Enter the door with the red cross? Turn to 48
Enter the door with the rose

doorknob? Turn to 158
Enter the door beneath the wooden

sign? Turn to 286

37°

Conrad is about to lumber in to your path for the last,
and probably fatal, time when a gust of fiery air roars
up from the floor of the mill and shakes him off the
ladder. Arms flailing, he falls down into the billowing
infemo. You rush over to see if he is truly dead this
371-373

time, but his bulky form is lost in the conflagration.
Fearing that you too may perish in the fire, you rush
out on to the tiny balcony. From there, you can see
only one safe way down: you wil] have to leap out
and grab one of the windmill sails on its way down to
the ground. If you have the Acrobatics Special Skill,
turn to 320. If you do not, Test your Luck, If you
are Lucky, turn to 320; if you are Unlucky, tum to
150

. 371
Though the sun is high in the sky and there is not a
single distraction to hide your movements, you ad-
vance so silently that the Provosts fail to notice you.
Their coarse laughter fills the air as they trip the
beggar over for the tenth time! Turn to r1o.

2
Your first priority should have been to take Gruul on
to Royal Lendle. Instead, you remain to watch the
soldiers as one by one they die, their hearts bursting
in the grip of an unnatural fear. Gruul laughs in
triumph, You must kill him before it is too late. Then
you feel it ~ fhump thump —your heart is beating faster
— thump thump — you stagger forward — thump thump
— chest pains — thump thump — Gruul laughing -—- thump
thump — you must — thump th...

You have jearned the hard way that there is no escape
from Karam Gruul's infamous wire tunic. Your hunt
for the fiend ends in a most grisly fashion,

374-376

374
You count the last coin into Hogeg’s eager fingers, and

say that you look forward to meeting him at the
graveyard in half an hour. ‘Aye, we'll be seein’ yer
then, Won't we, Mister Kilmamey?’ The other man
yawns in assent then drags himself out through the
tavem door. You are glad to leave the Three Broken
Fingers and can only hope that the body-snatchers will
conclude their secret arrangements swiftly. Ten min-
utes later, you reach the gates of Meinster Cemetery,
where you wait ... and wait ,., and wait. The rogues
have tricked you! They already have your gold, so
why should they turn up for work? If you have the
Tracking Special Skill, turn to 85; if not, add 2 Hours
and return to 200.

375
Hoping to take your enemy by surprise, you spring
forward and aim a devastating kick at his chest. If you
have either the Acrobatics or Combat Special Skill, turn
to 119. Otherwise, Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 119; if you are Unlucky, turn to 185.

376
Like all those who arrived before her, the woman
strides into the tavern and closes the door. Only now
the lights of the alehouse are extinguished, plunging
the main room into complete darkness. But what of
the meeting of the Fraternity? A distant bell tolls
midnight, IF you have a Rosy Chalice brooch, turn to
313. If you do not, will you try to sneak into the
tavern, to see what is going on (turn to 96), or

377-378

maintain your watch from the safety of your hiding
place on the wharf (turn to 362)?

377
Without hesitation, you vault through the open

window and drop down to the hard street below, If
you used the Acrobatics Special Skill, you land without
injury, But if you succeeded in Testing your Skill, you
collect some bruises and must deduct z points from
your STAMINA. Getting up, yeu see that the assassin is
standing beside a sinister-looking carriage; he speaks
to someone sitting inside the vehicle, then runs down
an alleyway. If you wish to pursue the assassin, turn to
41; but if you would rather approach the carriage, turn
to 292. Then again, despite the lateness of the hour,
you may prefer to start your manhunt proper. If so,
where will you go first: to Craven Asylum (turn to
393), the Last Octopus (turn to 23), Malt Lane (turn to
207) or, if you have reason to go there, to Priestsgate
or Weathern Mill?

378
Using knowledge gained from your previous encounter

with the Shocker, you lead your party down a manhole
and into a stinking sewage tunnel which runs from left
to right. The way to the right is laced with the essence
of fear. ‘I ain’t goin’ down there,’ moans an inkeeper,
scared out of his wits. ‘I don’t reckon the Shocker
came down here at all.’

A good many people agree with him, clamber up out
of the sewers and set off along the street. Roll four

379-380

dice and add the numbers together. If the total is
higher than your current STAMINA score, you heartily
concur with the inkeeper and foilow his party (turn to
73). If the total is equal to or less than your current
STAMINA score, you master your fear and decide to
turn right and follow the tunnel; roll one die to see
how many brave townsfolk go with you, Note the
number on your Adventure Sheet and turn to 144.

379
Intrigued, you open the exotically perfumed envelope,

and read the page contained within:

Greetings, Bounty Hunter. I had hoped that we would
meet before this necessary termination of your meddling,
buf you have proved fo be too disruptive. For that, I
congratulate you. For this letter, coated in deadly contact
poison, however, YOU must congratulate ME. In the
end, only I, Karam Gruul, could win. Now go fo your
gods,

You curse your own stupidity at falling into such an
obvious trap. If you have a bottle of Poison Antidote,
you must drink it now (cross it off your Adventure
Sheet). Then, if you haven't done so already, you may
look at the note in Entador’s hand (turn to 167).
Otherwise, there is nothing left for you to do but leave
(turn to 268). If you do not have the Poison Antidote,
you join Silas Entador in death. Your adventure is over.

380
Sanger’s Beacon, the highest part of Blackhaven, is a
grassy hill, topped by a crude gritstone obelisk. In

381

times of great danger, a bonfire is lit atop the obelisk,
to send out a warning to all Gallantaria A storm
breaks as you mount the hill, and soon you are soaked
to the skin. Worse, you are in danger of being hit by
lightning, which commences to rage all around you as
you make your way up to the obelisk. This stone
block is ten metres high and four metres wide, and one
side of it is rutted with weathered handholds. Standing
at the foot of the obelisk is an Obisian Predator. These
incredibly strong and rare killing machines are encased
in a skin of living metal! You have fallen into yet
another trap. Will you attack the creature (turn to
112), flee (turn to rg), or try to think of something
else to do (turn to 279)?

381

When you reach the platform at the top of the tower, you
gaze down upon the village and see that the Fogwalkers
are everywhere! Of more interest to you, however, is the
reason why the ladder should have been broken in the
first place. The only thing anyone can do up here is...
ring the bell! When the iron bell tolls over Penkhull, the
Fogwalkers moan in fear and make their way to the
outskirts of the village, where they stop and wait. As
long as you do not try to leave the village, you will be
safe from the Fogwalkers; if, in future, you are told to face
one, ignore the instructions: you face nothing. You still
have to find the Secret Chiefs, so, when you climb back
down the tower, will you go to the bonfire (turn to 21),
to the door with the red cross (turn to 48), to the door
with the rose-shaped handle (turn to 158), or to the door
beneath the wooden sign (turn to 286)?

382-384

382
It occurs to you that it might be a far smarter idea if
you could enter the asylum disguised as one of its
wardens. So you hurry away from the door and take
up a position in a nearby alley.

Ten minutes later one of the grey-suited wardens
walks past your hiding place, on his way to the
asylum. Overpower him, and the perfect disguise will
be yours. You leap out ... and find yourself staring
into the ugly face of a Troll!

TROLL WARDEN SKILL 9 STAMINA O

If you win, turn to 18.

383
You are but a stone’s throw from the Rohmer when it
erupts in flames behind you. Your enemies leave noth-
ing to chance! Soon the whole building is ablaze, and
the cry of ‘ire!’ is taken up throughout Cross Keys.
You had best be on your way before the City Guard
arrive. Will you make for Craven Asylum (turn to

393), the Last Octopus (turn to 57), Malt Lane (tum to

207) or, if you have reason to do so, for Priestsgate or
Weathern Mill?

384
You keep a sharp eye on .., on the Last Octopus
on the tavem ... Where did that cart come from? You
didn't see it arrive. You yawn, your co seem as
heavy as lead. But you keep a sharp eye on... on,
you yawn! Deduct 2 points from your STAMINA aa
385~386

Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 337. If you are

TUS ees i Woy
v fay) 5 ’)
iealyar any) ‘
‘ . “ty lA

i of Unlucky, and the word ‘Cainam’ is written on your

Adventure Sheet, turn to 251; otherwise, turn to 277.

385

As you enter the ruins of the Olde Gaol, you recall
the Professor’s instructions: “Three years ago, an invin-
cible Demothrax named Argolis was bound with a
magic chain and buried alive beneath the prison. Seven
days later, the gaol collapsed in an earthquake. It has
been shunned ever since, but Argolis lies there still,
buried and forgotten. You must retrieve the Chain of
Argolis, even though it is this alone which keeps her
entombed. A little-known Rime may help:

Argolis unchained,
Tum not your face,
Nor bind, nor strike,
Return fo its place,’

You find the chain lying partly buried in the earthen
floor of a dank cell. You try to pull it free — and the
whole floor erupts with fury! Soil flies in all directions
as a high-backed chair bursts up into the room. Bound
to the chair by the chain is the rotted Argolis! Waves
of barely checked evil flow from her as she struggles
against her bonds. ‘Release me! she howls, Will you
attack Argolis (turn to 305), flee (turn to 81x) or do as
she commands (turn to 22)?

386
As you approach the north door, the draught blowing
through the gap beneath grows stronger. The door

387~388

itself is made from reinforced oak and is locked. If you
have the Lack Picking Special Skill, turn to 56; otherwise
you may, if you haven't already done so, try the east
door (turn to 141) or the west door (turn to 17)

387
You sidle up to where Eviron stands behind the bar,
then say, ‘From what I’ve heard, this area has quite a
reputation’

The landlady looks up from her constitutional flagon
‘Oh ahh?’ she rumbles.

‘Yes,’ you reply, T’ve heard quite a few interesting
tales about this place, Know anything about them?’

Eviron frowns. ‘About what, exactly?’

Do you say:
The Shocker? Turn to 13
The Cabal of the Werewolf? Tum to 145
The Eternal Fraternity of the Rosy
Chalice? Turn to 3§1
Karam Gruul? Tum to 233

388

You tie Gruul to a nearby tree, then you join the men
who have dismounted and taken up positions at the
crest of the hill The atmosphere is tense. It is no
motley crew that is racing to destroy you; it is a
vicious band of seasoned fighters. You steel yourself
as the Cabal riders come charging up the hill. During
the ensuing skirmish, you must fight three opponents
at the same time:

389-390

SKILL STAMINA
RAVEN LORD 6 8
ORC ASSASSIN 7 6
TROLL TORTURER 8 9

If you win, you look around and see that, despite the
odds, your companions have put up a valiant fight and
victory is yours, Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn
to 240. If you are Unlucky, tur to 310

389

You lift the circular hatch and clamber down into the
cramped cellar of the mill. The low-ceilinged room is
bare, save for the large statue that stands against the
opposite wall: it is a stone gargoyle whose fierce,
open mouth is sealed by some sort of metal grille —
and whose bejewelled eyes flare up like two emerald
torches in the gloom. You shield your eyes, as a voice
booms out through the statue’s unmoving mouth:
‘Report!’ The gargoyle must be some kind of mystical
conveyor of tidings. But what of the guttural voice?
Could it be that of Karam Gruul? It barks once more,
‘Zaar! Report!’ The green eyes of the gargoyle glow
even more brightly. If you wish to ‘report’, turn to
262; but if you would prefer to remain silent, turn to
241

390
‘Now that’s not very gentlemanly of yer,’ moans
Hogg, ‘not very sportin’ at all. Mister Kilmarney an’
my good self will be most upset if yer refuse to seal
our buddin’ agreement with a cup o’ goodwill. Now
391

come on, there. Sink the flagon and we'll consign this
misunderstandin’ to the annals of history,’

if you have the Sleight of Hand Special Skill, turn to 72.
If you do not, will you now drink the ale, in order to
keep the body-snatchers happy (turn to 11), or remain
steadfast in your refusal (turn to 174)?

391

You reach up, grab the wooden beam ~ and how! in
pain as three of your fingers go splashing into the
water! Inserted in the top of the beam is a razor-sharp
blade. It was only natural that you should reach for
the beam — as did the twelve men who fell into the pit
before you. Deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA and
1 point from both your current and Initial s«1Lt scores
You clutch your maimed hand as the water continues
to rise. If you haven't done so already, you may now
climb up the rungs (turn to 140). Otherwise, all that
remains for you to do is to offer a silent prayer to
your gods (tum to 170).

392-394

392
The moment you make as if to strike at the woman,
she steps back and unsheathes her swordstick! Despite
her age, you will find her a most worthy opponent.

MONOCLED WOMAN - SKILL 7 ~~ STAMINA 10

After one round of combat, turn to 126.

393

For reasons you cannot fathom, Craven Asylum for
the chronically insane is the most popular of Black-
haven’s tourist attractions. Decadent folk actually pay
to enter what must be the city’s most wretched hell-
hole! Tales from the asylum speak of countless dark
deeds, one rumour being that sane folk can be locked
away in there on payment of the right price! Such may
well be the case with Matra Ouspenskaya. The asylum
itself is a squat, grey stone block, its blank face broken
here and there by a few barred windows; so it is
with some trepidation that you approach the fortified
doorway. If you have a Letter of Introduction, turn
to 232. If you do not, but you do have the Disguise
Special Skill, turn to 382. If you have neither, turn
to 332.

394

Exercising the utmost caution, you ease the side door
open and slip inside. Within, it is so dark that you can
barely see your hand in front of your face. You close
the door behind you and step forward. Test your Luck.
If you are Lucky, turn to 316; if you are Unlucky, turn

tO 355.
395-396

395
The cruel Provosts have their backs turned to you as

they force the beggar to eat a dung pie, so you
carefully tiptoe across to the gibbet, If you have the
Sneak Special Skill and the Skull of Mora Tao, tum to
263; if you have the Sneak Special Skill only, burn to
371; otherwise, turn to 204.

396
Ore step ... two... then you spring forward and

grab hold of the rear of the vehicle. As the carriage
gains speed, you haul yourself up on to the roof
Although he is holding the reins, the driver is saying
and doing nothing. From your position, it would be
equally easy to attack him (turn to 266), to dimb
down inside the carriage (turn to 4 37) or simply to
stay just where you are and wait to see where the
carriage is going (turn to 163)

397-399

397
The beli-tower is a high wooden scaffold surmounted

by a belfry, access to which is gained by means of a
long ladder. When you get to the bottom of the
tower, however, you see that the ladder has been
hacked to pieces! A Fogwalker looms up out of the
must

FOGWALKER

If you win, roll one die; if you roll a 6, you contract
the plague from your opponent and die. If you survive
and you have the Climb Special Skill you may clamber
up the wooden scaffold (turn to 381}. Otherwise, you
had better make for either the bonfire (turn to 21), the
door with the red cross (tum to 48), the door with the
rose-shaped handle (turn to 158), or the door beneath
the wooden sign (turn to 286).

SKILL 7 STAMINA 8

398
Taking the utmost care, you skip nimbly up the stairs
and follow the landing round to Entador’s front door.
Without knocking, you open the door and step inside;
turn to 87.

399
The Last Octopus has already opened its doors to
those in need of early morning refreshment. If you
wish, and only if you have the proper costume and
Special Skill, you may take the time to disguise yourself
as a Brician noble before entering the tavern. Inside,
you may buy yourself a heart-warming measure of
Koszak; if you do, cross 2 Gold Pieces off your
400

Adventure Sheet and restore 4 STAMINA points. From
the bar, you can see that most of the tables are already
taken. A game of some sort seems to be going on at
one of them; maybe there’s money to be won there
Or perhaps you should try talking to Eviron, the surly
landlady; if the Cabal does meet here, she must know
about it. Then again, there could be someone among
this scurvy lot who would like to talk to you; they
certainly won't approach you unless you're on your
own. So will you:

Talk with the landlady? Turn to 387

Stand alone at the bar? Turn to 361

Go and join in the game? Turn to 70
400

Without thinking, you throw the Hexalpha up into the
air. The silver star shoots forward then flies round in a
wide circle, encompassing the entire courtyard, before
returning to your hand. As the orbit is made, your
invisible foe materializes before you. It is an Ecto-
plasmic Lurker, whose death will release Nofura, the
same mystic energy used to power the Hexalpha.
Each time you win a round of combat, add the same
number of points to your STAMINA that your foe
loses.

ECTOPLASMIC
LURKER SKILL 10 STAMINA 8

If you win, there is nothing for you to do other
than to go back out and try the left-hand gate. Turn
fo 114.

More Fighting Fantasy in Puffin

Advanced Fighting Fantasy
DUNGEONEER
Marc Gascoigne and Pete Tamlyn

Now you and your friends can create your own fantasy movies!
Imagine that you are the director and your friends are the cast of
heroes. Will you send them to battle with the evil wizard or recover
the Dragons’ hoard? The choice 1s yours, and Dungeaneer makes the
exciting world of fantasy role-playing accessible in a thoroughly
user-friendly manner

BLACKSAND!
Mare Gascoigne and Pete Tamlyn

Sprawling like the corpse of some giant creature, Port Blacksand is a
festering den of pirates and bneands. Unforeseen dangers lurk
around every street comer and in every dark alleyway. Devious
plots and crimes are hatched in every tavern Thieves and assassins
slip through the shadows. Ancient mysteries lurk in the cellars and
sewers, But the infamous City of Thieves is also home to excitement
and adventure beyond compare!

The second volume in the Advanced Fighting Fantasy series which
started with Durigeoneer,

OUT OF THE PIT
Fighting Fantasy Monsters
Steve Jackson and lan Livingstone

From the darkest corners, from the deepest pools and from the
dungeons thought only to exist in nightmares come the Fighting
Fantasy monsters — the downfall of many a brave warnor Two
hundred and fifty of these loathsome creatures from the wild and
dangerous worlds of Fighting Fantasy are collected here — some are
old adversaries, many you have yet to meet — each of them de-
scribed in minute detail An indispensable guide for Fighting
Fantasy adventurers!

TITAN

The Fighting Fantasy World

Steve Jackson and lan Livingstone
Edited by Marc Gascoigne

You met the monsters in Out of the Pit — now meet the rest of the
Fighting Fantasy world! No adventurer should be without this
essential guide, It contains everything you need to know, cover-
ing the turbulent history of the world, from its creation and carly civil-
izations — through the devastating War of the Wizards — to the
present-day wildemess and anarchy where the deltcate balance be-
tween Good and Chaos could at any moment be overturned

FIGHTING FANTASY
The Introductory Role-playing Game

Sleve Jackson

Thrilling adventures of sword and sorcery come tu ble in the Fighl-
ing Fanlasy Gamebooks, where the reader is the kero, dicing with
death and demons in search of villains. treasure or freedom Now
YOU can create your own Mghting Fantasy adventures and send
your Ficmils olf on dangerous mismons! In this clealy written hand-
book there are hints on devising combats, monsters Lo use, tricks

and taclics, as well as two minvadventures

THE RIDDLING REAVER

bye yl acre) el
ee Jacksov

Four Firhting Fantasy episedes to be played ay separale adventures
or a5 stapes in an epic adventure, The Rididling Ruiver is a rival
worthy of the most daring, adventurers. His mind ts inscrutable —
but there is no doubt about ihe chaos he plans to unleash on the
world. He sist be stopped, despite the nazards ol the task!

5 Lm lias rt Wee | RS, pg 4 a ee ps) a -
A tolion Ba [fo Fioeting Fantasy fae larroductan: Rates slave

it contains anslrections and scenanos so that wou can conjure up
adventures for your fnends and send them on their mas! dangerous

and puzzJing: mission yet

