FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS

Over 12 million copies sold worldwide!

Dor of on tf Furest of S

For centuries the balance of the Forest of Night hus
been orcserved by mankind anid narum alike, Now «
dark enemy has appeared to threaten the uneasy
peace, Terrible creatires stalk the forest and the
ancient Ell paths are closed. No néws has coine
from the distance ciry of Sardarh tor weeks.

fiche isolated town ot Grimmiind, on the very edpe
at the loaning furest, the cownsialk can Bear ii
no boner. Same brave adventurer — YOU! — must
lotumey inte the Forest of Night. and beyond, to find
the source of the evi) and the wiry to detest it!

Partstory, part game, thisis a book in which YOU ar
the hero! Two dice, a penell and un craset are all you
neek YOU decide which routes to take, which
dangers (risk and which foes to tight. Dune YOU
fate the perils vou must Gvercame to froe Sardath

Csi si firetentiven dru Jen Fodiwiente

158%

ti

Ui
LAN

Puffin Books

SIEGE OF SARDATH

The Forest of Night in the wild north-east of Allansia is a place
where mankind and nature live in fragile harmony, But now a
new and unknown enemy has appeared to threaten the whole
balance of the region, Strange and terrible creatures stalk the
forest and the ancient Elf paths are now closed to travellers. No
news of events in the distant city of Sardath has come through
the Forest of Night for weeks.

In the isolated town of Grimmund, on the very edge of the
looming forest, the townspeople can bear it no longer. The
Council has met and the decision has been taken, Some brave
adventurer — YOU! — must journey into the Forest of Night,
and beyond, to find the source of the evil and how to defeat it!

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you need to embark
upon the most challenging adventure yet, which comes complete
with its own elaborate combat system and a score sheet to
record your progress.

Many dangers lie ahead and your success is by no means
certain. Sinister enemies are ranged against you, and it’s up to
YOU to decide which route to follow, which dangers to risk
and which foes to fight.
Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks

i THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP
MOUNTAIN

2 THE CITADEL OF CHAOS

3 THE FOREST OF DOOM

4 STARSHIP TRAVELLER

5 CITY OF THIEVES

6 DEATHTRAP DUNGEON

7 ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING

8 SCORPION SWAMP

9 CAVERNS OF THE SNOW WITCH

10 HOUSE OF HELL

14 TALISMAN OF DEATH

12 SPACE ASSASSIN

13 FREEWAY FIGHTER .

14 TEMPLE OF TERROR

15 THE RINGS OF KETHER

16, SEAS OF BLOOD

17 APPOINTMENT WITH FEAR.

18 REBEL PLANET

19. DEMONS OF THE DEEP

20 SWORD OF THE SAMURAI

ait TRIAL OF CHAMPIONS

22 ROBOT COMMANDO

23, MASKS OF MAYHEM

24. CREATURE OF HAVOC

Steve Jackson’s SORCERY!
« THE SHAMUTANT]I HILLS
2 KHARE — CITYPORT OF TRAPS

as BENEATH NIGHTMARE CASTLE

26 CRYPT OF THE SORCERER

27 STAR STRIDER

28 PHANTOMS OF FEAR

ag. MIDNIGHT ROGUE

30 CHASMS OF MALICE

31 BATTLEBLADE WARRIOR

ja SLAVES OF THE ABYSS

33 SKY LORD

34 STEALER OF SOULS

35 DAGGERS OF DARKNESS

36. ARMIES OF DEATH

37, PORTAL OF EVIL

38, VAULT OF THE VAMPIRE

39 FANGS OF FURY

40 DEAD OF NIGHT

41 MASTER OF CHAOS

aa_ BLACK VEIN PROPHECY

43 THE KEEP OF THE LICH-LORD

44 LEGEND OF THE SHADOW
WARRIORS

4s SPECTRAL STALKERS

46, TOWER OF DESTRUCTION

47, THE CRIMSON TIDE

48 MOONRUNNER

3. THE SEVEN SERPENTS
4. THE CROWN OF KINGS

FIGHTING FANTASY — The Introductory Role-playing Game
THE RIDDLING REAVER — Four Thrilling Adventures

The Advanced Fighting Fantasy System

DUNGEONEER — An Introduction to Advanced Fighting Fantasy
BLACKSAND! — More Advanced Fighting Fantasy
OUT OF THE PIT — Fighbng Fantasy Monsters

TITAN — The Fighting Fantasy World

The Fighting Fantasy Novela

THE TROLLTOOTH WARS — Chaos Invades Allansia
DEMONSTEALER — Chadda Darkrnane Returns

Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone

present

SIEGE O
SARDAT

by Keith P. Phillips
Illustrated by Pete Knifton

PUFFIN BOOKS

PUFFIN BOOKS

Published by the Penguin Group
Penguin Books Ltd, 27 Wrights Lane, London w8 572, England
Penguin Books USA Inc, 375 Hudson Street, New York, New York 10014, USA
Penguin Books Australia Ltd Ringwood, Victoria, Australia
Penguin Books Canada Lid, 16 Aleom Avenue, Toronto Onlano, Canada m4v 362
Penguin Books (NZ) Ltd 782-190 Wausau Road, Auckland 10 New Zealand

Penguin Books Ltd, Registered Olfces, Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England

First published 1992
ID57 90108 Gq 2

Concept copynghl @ Steve Jackson and Jan Livingstorie, 1902
Text copyright ©: Keith P Phillips, 1992
Mlustrations copyright © Pete Knifton ro92
Map copyright ((3) Leo Harias, 1992
All nghts reserved

The moral right of the author has been asserted

Printed in England by Clays Ltd, Si Ives ple
Filmsel in Monaphoto Palatino

Except in the United Stales of America this book 1s sald subject
to the condition that it shall nat, by way of trade or otherwise, be lent,
re-sold, tured out, or otherwise circulated without the pubhsher's
Prior consent in any form of binding or cover other than that in
which it is published and without a similar condition mcluding this
condihon being imposed on the subsequent purchaser

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION
7

ADVENTURE SHEET
18

BACKGROUND
20

SIEGE OF SARDATH
“4

INTRODUCTION

As an adventurer in the Forest of Night in north-east
Allansia you are renowned for your skill with sword
and bow, and for your knowledge of the Forest. In
fact, the people of Grimmund rely on you to protect
them from the many dangers that exist in this wild
region.

The danger which now threatens Grimmund, and per-
haps the whole Forest, is greater than any you have so
far encountered. Before you can begin the quest to
destroy it, however, you must first find out exactly
how good an adventurer you are. You will use dice to
determine your attributes, which you will then record
on the Adventure Sheet on pages 18-19. You will also
use the Adventure Sheet to record the progress of your
adventure. Either use a pencil and an eraser, or make
photocopies of the Adventure Sheet, for it will certainly
take more than one attempt for you to save the Forest
of Night.

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one die. Add 6 to the number rolled and enter the
total in the sxitt box on the Adventure Sheet.

Roll two dice. Add 12 to the total and enter the result
in the STAMINA box.

Roll one die. Add 6 to the number rolled and enter the
total in the Luck box

These are your Initial scores, and you must keep a
permanent record of them. Any of your scores may
change during your adventure, but they will exceed
your Initial scores only if you are given specific instruc-
tions to that effect.

Your SKILL score represents your ability as a warrior
and adventurer; it says how well you fight, how well
you track, and how well you know the Forest. Your
STAMINA is your health and fitness, and your ability
to survive wounds and physical hardship. Your Luck
represents how in tune you are with your world and
your gods; a high tuck score means that these forces
will be with you and will come to your aid from time
to time.

Restoring Skill, Stamina and Luck

Skill

Your skit score will not change much during your
adventure. If this does happen, however, it will usually
be because of some temporary effect, like losing your
weapon. If you do permanently lose points of sKILL,
there are potions that will help: one of these is the
Potion of Skill, which will restore your skit. to its
Initial value. Remember, your skILt cannot be raised
above its Initial value unless you are specifically told.

8

Stamina

Your STAMINA will change frequently, since you will
undoubtedly suffer many wounds and much exhaustion
as your adventure proceeds. You will then be able to
heal these ills using your Herb Lore — the art of
healing with herbs and mosses. Each Bundle of Herbs
restores up to 4 STAMINA points. However, there is
another way in which you may recover STAMINA:
should you manage to get hold of one, a Potion of
Strength will restore your STAMINA to its Initial level.
Remember, your STAMINA cannot be raised above its
Initial value. If your sTAMINA ever reaches zero, then
you are dead: stop reading immediately. This is not
the end, of course, for you may create another character
and start the adventure again from the beginning,

Luck

One reason for your being such a great adventurer is
because you are naturally attuned to the Forest and
travel under the watchful eyes of its gods. This at-
tribute is measured by your LuCK score. There have
been many times when your Luck has turned the tide
of a battle or made an arrow hit that would otherwise
have missed. However, as your LucK runs out it be-
comes less and less effective. Therefore, you should be
careful not to squander it, for it is difficult to restore.
In fact, one of the few sure methods of regaining it is
to drink a Potion of Fortune. Not only will this restore
your LUCK to its Initial level, it will also add 1 point to
its Inifial level before it is restored. You should note,
however, that in general other additions to your Luck
will not raise it above its Initial value

Combat

During your adventure you will meet many different
people and creatures. Some of them will attack you;
with others you will take the initiative. When this
occurs, the first thing you should do is to record your
adversary’s SKILL and STAMINA scores in the first
vacant Monster Encounter Box on the Adventure Sheet.
Make a note also of any special abilities or instructions
that are unique to this particular opponent. It is impor-
tant that these records are made carefully, for an
encounter may last over several numbered paragraphs
Once you have done this, you may begin the battle,
either at a distance or hand-to-hand.

Using Your Bow
You have been shown how to make and use a bow by
Sorrel, one of the Elves of Ash Cleeve. Your bow even
bears Sorrel’s emblem: a small carving of an owl.

You will be informed whenever there is an opportunity
for you to use your bow. You will also be told how
many arrows you may fire before something occurs to
stop you. This will usually be the onset of hand-to-
hand combat, in which a bow is useless. For ranged
combat, use the following sequence:

1. Roll two dice and compare the total with your
current SKILL score.

2. If the total is less than or equal to your skILL, you have
hit your opponent, inflicting damage; deduct 2 points
from your opponent's STAMINA. Go to step 4.

3. If the total rolled is higher than your sk, your

10

arrow has missed and so does no damage. At this
point, you may use your Luck to change the
outcome (see below).

4. If your opponent now has a STAMINA score of zero
or less, it is dead. You have won the battle and
should continue with the adventure

5. If you have not fired the permitted number of
arrows and have some left, you may fire another —
return to step 1. If you have fired all the arrows you
were allowed, or if you have run out of arrows, you
should go on to the next stage of the battle as
detailed in the numbered paragraph.

Hand-fo-hand Combat

For close-quarter, hand-to-hand combat, most often
you will use your sword; this is the normal weapon of
Allansian adventurers and most people know how to
use one. But you are not most people: you have gained
much valuable experience in the use of this weapon
and so you are of above-average ability, For hand-to-
hand combat, follow this sequence:

1. Roll two dice and add the total to your opponent's
SKILL score. This is its Attack Strength.

2. Roll two dice and add the total to your own sKILL.
This is your Attack Strength.

3. lf your Attack Strength is the higher, you have
wounded your opponent; go to step 4. If your
opponent’s Attack Strength is the higher, it has
wounded you; go to step 5. If the Attack Strengths
are the same, you have avoided each other's blows
— start a new Attack Round from step 1

11

4. Deduct 2 points from your opponent’s sTAMINA
You may use your LUCK here to do more damage
(see below). Go to step 6.

5, Deduct 2 points from your own sTAMINA. You
may use your LucK here so that you are less
seriously wounded (see below).

6. Make sure you have recorded on your Adventure
Sheet all adjustments to the sTAMINA score of
yourself or your opponent, and to your Lucx score.

7. If either you or your opponent has a STAMINA
score of zero or less, go to step 8. Otherwise, you
both fight on; begin the next Attack Round, starting
again at step 1.

8. If your opponent's sTAMINA score has reached zero,
you have killed it and can continue with the adven-
ture. If your own stAMINA has reached zero, you
are dead; you must start the adventure again from
the beginning, first rolling the dice to create a new
character.

Using Luck

Testing your Luck
To find out whether Dame Luck has been favourable
to you, you should Test your Luck. In battles, you may
sometimes do this without being given the option; the
procedure for this is given below. However, most of
the time you may Test your Luck only when you are
specifically instructed to do so.

To Test your Luck, roll two dice, If the total is less than

12

or equal to your current tuck score, you have been
Lucky, and the outcome will be in your favour, If the
total is higher than your current LUCK score, you have
been Unlucky and will be penalized.

Each time you Test your Luck, you must subtract 1
point from your current Luck score. Thus you will
soon realize that, the more you rely on your LUCK the
more risky this procedure will become,

Using Luck in Combat
When you are fighting with your sword or a similar
weapon, you may use your Luck either to inflict
greater damage on your opponent or to minimize the
damage your enemy does to you.

Whenever you wound an opponent, you may Test
vour Luck. If you are Lucky, you have inflicted a graver
wound than usual — deduct an extra 2 points from
your opponent’s sTAMINA. If you are Unlucky, you
nave inflicted a lighter wound than normal — deduct
only 4 point from your opponent's sTAMINA instead
of the usual 2,

Whenever you are wounded, you may Test your Luck,
if you are Lucky, the wound inflicted on you was only
a glancing blow — deduct 1 point from your STAMINA
instead of the usual 2. If you are Unlucky, the wound
's more serious — deduct 1 extra point from your
STAMINA.

You may also use your LUCK to improve your accuracy
with the bow, If the dice roll indicates that an arrow

13

has missed, you may Test your Luck to reverse the
result. If you are Lucky, the arrow will veer at the last
moment and hit your opponent. If you are Unlucky,
not only will the arrow miss — the bow-string will
snap, and you won't be able to repair it until after
your opponent is dead . . . if you survive that long!

Fighting More Than One Opponent

If you come across more than one creature in a
particular encounter, you may be instructed to fight
them in turn. In this case, fight each one singly as
detailed above. If there are no instructions as to the
order to fight them in, fight them in the order in
which they are listed.

If you are not instructed to fight your opponents one
at a time, then you must fight them all simultaneously.
Follow this sequence:

1. Decide which of your opponents you are attacking
this Attack Round. This will be your Chosen
Adversary.

2. Roll two dice and work out your Attack Strength.

3. Roll two dice for each of your opponents and work
out the Attack Strength of each of them.

4. Resolve this Attack Round’s combat against your
Chosen Adversary in the usual way.

5. Compare your Attack Strength with that of each of
your other opponents. Any opponent who has a
higher Attack Strength has hit you, inflicting the
usual damage upon you; any opponent who has an

14

equal or lower Attack Strength has missed you.
Remember: you cannot hit any of them, since you
can only fight one creature at a time.

6. Deduct 2 points from your sTAMUNA for each hit
you have sustained from these other opponents.
You may use your Luck here so that the wounds
inflicted upon you do you less damage; you must
make a separate tuck roll for each hit (see above).

7. If you are still alive but have not yet won the
battle, begin the next Attack Round, starting again
at step 1.

It may happen in the course of your adventures that
you find an ally. If you do, the procedure for combat
is the same as above, except that now it will be your
opponent (or opponents) who has to choose whom to
attack, Whenever this occurs, you will be instructed
how to determine which of you your opponent or
opponents attacks.

Equipment

In the Forest you are able to find herbs and other
things you may need, so you generally travel light
You wear a suit of light and supple leather armour
that Sorrel gave you and carry the bow he helped you
make. Slung over your shoulder you have a quiver
which at present contains the greatest number of
arrows it can ever hold: 6 arrows. Your sword is a hne
weapon, forged by the Dwarven smiths in Sardath;
should you ever lose it, you must deduct 2 points
from your Attack Strength, unless you can find another

15
weapon. You also have a backpack for your herbs,
gold and anything else you may find on your journey.
When you begin this adventure, your pack contains
15 Gold Pieces and 5 Bundles of Herbs.

As well as being an adventurer, you are also a member
of the Grimmund Council; probably your most im-
portant possession is your Council Signet Ring which
gives you the rights, privileges and responsibilities of
a Councillor. On it is your seal, made with such magic
that it is almost impossible to copy.

* Time

The Allansian week has seven days, as listed on your
Adventure Sheet. For various reasons, time is crucial to
your mission; therefore, at the beginning of each day,
you should note which day it is by putting » tick in
the new day's box. Your adventure begins in the
middle of Highday night, so the first day you tick off
will be Stormsday .., if you make it through to the
momning.

Notes on Play

First, make sure you have read through the above
tules. Even if you have played Fighting Fantasy before,
there are some new facts which you should know: a
description of yourself as an adventurer; descriptions
of three potions; and rules for Herb Lore and firing
your bow.

16

Secondly, concerning geography: the Forest of Night
is known territory. There is a map of the area on page
6 of the book; this represents your intimate knowl-
edge of the Forest, so you should be able to travel
around without getting lost. However, should you
stray into the Freezeblood Mountains, you will be in
unknown territory, so it is advisable to make a careful
map as you go along.

Thirdly, you should make careful notes about every-
thing you find in the course of your adventures. It is
possible to complete your mission by trial and error,
but it is more rewarding to do so through good

thinking.

17
ADVENTURE SHEET

SKILL

Initial Skill=

GOLD

STAMINA

Initial Stamina=

tac heceessasagers
LUCK

Initial Luck=

ARROWS
(MAX. 6)

DAY OF THE
WEEK

BUNDLES OF
HERBS

EQUIPMENT

STORMSDAY

MOONSDAY

FIREDAY

EARTHDAY

WINDSDAY

SEADAY

HIGHDAY

MONSTER ENCOUNTER BOXES

Skill=

Sfamina=

Skill=

oe

fy

Skilf=

Stamina Stamina=

Skill=

stamina=

Skill=

Sranmtina=

=

Shi}l= i

TH iwa=

ere
HL.

Skill= Skill=

Staminn=

Stamina=

Skill= Skifl= i
Stamina= Stamina=

Skitf= Skitf=

Stamina= Stamina=

A'CURIOUS MESSENGER

The cold air stings your throat as you desperately
draw it into your lungs; the forest trail streaks past
beneath your thundering feet. When you look over
your shoulder, all you can see are the malevolent fir
trees and the dark forest closing in behind you, so you
run even harder to get away.

Suddenly the trees are gone, and you find yourself
standing before a huge, isolated mountain. As you
watch, a great fissure opens up in its side, and darkness
pours from within, staining the snow with its evil.
Slowly, the gloom forms itself into an army of jet-
black soldiers who surge towards you. In the blinking
of an eye, you are engulfed.

You awaken with a start, dispelling the nightmare. A
Council messenger is standing over you. ‘I am sorry to
have woken you up,’ he says. ‘A traveller has just
arrived, and Grissa has called an emergency Council
meeting.’

A short time later, you take your place in the Council
Chamber of the Grimmund Town Hall. Grissa, the
Council Leader, stands up. ‘This,’ she says, indicating a
rather travel-worn man sitting beside her, ‘is Morn
Preeler, an adventurer from Zengis. He has informed
me that our fears are true ~ it is the Forest which has
cut us off from Sardath, All those trying to get

20

through have either been forced to turn back or have
died in the attempt,’ And with that, Grissa sits down

Mom Preeler rises to explain, ‘The Wood Elves have
had to abandon the Elf-paths because they have been
invaded by trees and spanned by the webs of Giant
Spiders. And, due to the spawning of all manner of
horrific monsters and the rising of Slykk armies, kill-
ing indiscriminately, the river has become impass-

able.’

Grissa stands up again. ‘I think it is clear that the only
way to protect ourselves is to fight this evil in any
way we can. Even if it means burning some of the
Forest.’

‘You cannot do this!’ you shout in sudden anger
Everybody looks at you in surprise. ‘I have travelled
the Forest all my life, It is a dark and fearsome
place; the paths are kept open by hard work and
diligence alone. But it is a place in balance. It is no
good declaring war on the Forest, Have you forgot-
ten that it supplies you with your livelihoods? You
should regard it as your friend,’ Berend, one of the
older Councillors, looks at you bitterly, his mouth
twisted from the after-effects of Spider poison. You
remain undaunted. Even the Giant Spiders and the
troublesome Slykk are a part of that balance, Do
you think for one moment that the Slykk would cut
off the river when our trading boats are their primary
source of weapons and luxuries from the west?’

‘What do you say has happened, then?’ shouts
Tharborn

21
‘It is a mew and much darker enemy that threatens us. I
am not yet sure what it is, but I do know that it is
neither the Forest nor any of its inhabitants. We have
lived in the Forest for centuries and have ourselves
become part of the balance. The Wood Elves and
people like Colrhyn and myself have made sure of
that.’ You pause. ‘No. Something alien to this part of
Allansia is doing this.’

‘Tt think you are deluding yourself with these ideas of a
dark enemy,’ says Grissa. ‘We all know how much you
love the Forest. Perhaps this love is clouding your
judgement. If you had heard Mom’s story, you would
understand.’ :

‘If I may,’ says Morn Preeler to Grissa, I think it
would be fruitful for me to tell my story to the
Honourable Councillor. As a fellow adventurer, | be-
lieve he will understand what I have seen.’ When
Grissa hesitates, he continues, ‘Perhaps it would save
the Council time if I were to brief the Councillor in
another room?’

‘An excellent idea,’ says Grissa. She looks at you and
gestures towards the door.

Somewhat sullenly you ask Morn to follow you. He
picks up his pack, slings it across his back, and respect-
fully takes his leave of the Council. You lead him
along the empty corridors and up two flights of stairs
to the Council Recess Chamber. Opposite the door is
a large window. It is dark outside and, when Morn
sees his reflection, he flinches. You shrug inwardly and
sit down on one of the comfortable chairs. Your pack

a2.

is virtually empty, so you don’t bother to take it off
Your bow and arrows are a little bulky, however, so
you unsling them and put them down beside the chair.
‘Now then, Mom,’ you say, ‘Jet’s hear your story,”

‘It’s quite simple,’ he says, sidling across to you. ‘When
I was travelling through the Forest, | was accosted and
killed by a powerful creature. He then assumed my
form and came here in order to kill the only person
left in the Forest who had any chance of thwarting the
plans of his people!’

Tum to 1,
1-3

I
You sit there for a moment, stunned and bewildered
by what Morn has just said. It is only when he grabs
your left wrist and tears the Council Ring from your
finger that you realize you are in danger. You leap to
your feet, but Mom jumps backwards out of your way.

‘And now that I have your Council Ring,’ he says, ‘I will
be able to impersonate you and persuade the Grimmund
Council to take their people into the Forest, where they
will surely die.’ You edge towards him cautiously, not
sure what magic he is armed with. As you do so, a sinister
transformation takes place. The back of his tunic bulges,
then tears as two huge, bat-like wings burst forth. He
stretches them wide and takes a step forward, holding up
his arms as if calling on a great power; slowly they
change to a jet-black colour, his hands becoming fierce
talons, ‘On your own you might have made it through
the Forest alive, armed as you are with knowledge and
wit. But now it is too late.’ He reaches out to attack you.
Will you draw your sword and fight him (turn to 381) or
dodge out of his way and run (turn to 398)?

2
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 225. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 248.

You follow the walkway until it comes to a wide
staircase. This is less unnerving to climb than the other
stairway, but you are glad when the archway at the
top leads to an enclosed tunnel. However, this tunnel

4

is decorated with shadowy wall-paintings whose grue-
some effect is made worse by the unnatural light
coming from the surrounding fungi. With this sickness
as a spur, you hurry through into the next cavern.

Half expecting some unknown horror, you take a
tentative glance at your surroundings. You are stand-
ing at the beginning of a long walkway in a huge
cavern. On your right there are some tall buildings of
a bizarre construction; to your left, a row of impossibly
slender pillars rises up beside the cavern wall. You go
along the walkway for some distance until you come
to a stairway which soars up towards the ceiling on
the pillars you saw before; it ends at a balcony high
above the archway through which you came. If you
continue along the walkway, turn to 369. If you climb
the stairway, you eventually reach the balcony; you
walk to the edge and look out (turn to 135).

As your watch comes to an end, Roxsir appears from
below. The others tell him about the impostor, and he
thanks you profusely (regain 1 Luck point). ‘Lokimur
is sleeping, but I will make sure that he knows how
brave you have all been. Now I will escort you
through the tunnels back to the surface.’

‘Goodbye, then,’ he says when you get to the bottom
of the mine shaft, ‘and many thanks for what you have
done for our people.’ You wish him good luck, then
get into the cage and haul yourself back to the surface.
Once there, you leave the cave and soon you are

5-7

standing once again on the top of the mountain pass.
if you go down the north-west side, turn to 51. If you
go down the south-east side, you eventually get back
to the mountain path. Will you now go north-east
towards the spire-shaped mountain (turn to 323) or
south-west towards the river (turn to 101)?

5

The track leads you north-east up a gently rising
valley, with the north side of the ridge on one side
and some very steep mountains on the other, After
some time, you come to a junction where the track
meets another going north-west up a steep slope to a
mountain pass. It doesn’t look like an easy route, but it
is not beyond your capabilities. In the far distance to
the north-east is a spire-shaped mountain, so high that
its peak is hidden in the clouds. A massive storm is
raging in these clouds, with bright lightning flashes
and rumbles of thunder. Will you go north-west (tum
to 108), or carry on north-east (turn to 323)?

6
The Mirror Demon’s long, cruel nails grasp your flesh
fiercely. But instead of trying to destroy you, she
drags you towards the shield and you are unable to
stop her from pulling you into her dimension. Your
adventure ends here.

=

You wait for some time, desperately trying to come
up with a plan to get you out of this situation.
8-9

Suddenly you feel strange — the transformation potion
is wearing off! When he sees what is happening to
you, one of the Guards screams, ‘Human!’ and they all
attack. You fight as best you can, but there are just
too many of them. Your adventure is over.

8
As you walk along the path, the trees loom ominously
overhead. Many of the Giant Spider webs have been
woven much closer to the trail than usual — some
threads are even stretched across the path. Fortunately,
the Spiders in this area are trappers, not hunters, so
you are safe as long as you don’t get caught in one of
their webs. You walk for many hours, wondering how
the Elves could have let the path get so overgrown.
You keep the pace brisk to prevent the cold getting to
you, but some subtler chill still penetrates, As the sun
is setting, you reach the place where some of your
questions may be answered: the fork in the road
where the Elf village is hidden among, the trees. Turn

to 332.

The trees loom overhead as you walk along Colrhyn’s
Track; it grows darker and darker, until you can hardly
tell what time of day it is. In the absence of sunlight,
the cold penetrates your bones, dampening your spint,
If the path is in this state, something dreadful must
have happened to Colrhyn. A sudden thundering noise
alerts you and you turn, In an instant, a Giant Wolf
Spider appears, a webless predator much fiercer than
the wolf it is named after. It moves towards you on its

9

immense legs, its huge mandibles clicking hungrily.
There is just time to fire one arrow if you want to

GIANT WOLF SPIDER SKILL 8

If you win, you leave the body of the unfortunate
Spider behind you and keep on walking. Some time in
the late afternoon you arrive at an even narrower and
darker track running south-east. Do you choose to go
down this track (turn to 192) or carry on north-east
along the main trail (turn to 394)?

STAMINA 8

i
ea

ey i}

Age

Io-1I2

ro
Having gained the advantage, you roll and twist,
grasping Morn round the neck in an effort to get him
in a firm hold. He struggles to free himself. Roll two
dice to determine the Attack Strength of yourself and
the impostor. If the result is a draw, you both struggle,
but no advantage is gained — roll again If you
win the Attack Round, turn to 69. If Morn wins the
Attack Round, he twists out of your grip and you are
back on level terms — return to 212 and continue the

fight.

o
‘L would suggest that you leave now,’ he says. “You
are not really of sufficiently exalted standing to be
here.’

You hesitate for a moment — there may be information
still to be gleaned from this room or some item that
will help you complete your mission. However, one of
the other Dark Elves raises his hand and twists his
fingers into a weird contortion, possibly a gesture for
a spell. ‘Didn't you hear him? Or would you like me to
use force?’ Several Dark Elves turn and stare at you
malevolently. There are far too many of them for you
to fight, so you leave. Turn to 29.

12
You tum away from the crumbling body, approach the
door, and strike it three times with your sword. There
is a loud click, and you watch thankfully as the door
slides into the wall. As you step out into the cold
night air, the door closes behind you. Turn to 349.

13-14

13

You walk for some distance until you reach a narrow
tunnel in the cavern wall. But something about the
tunnel feels wrong, somehow. The world begins to
spin, and you lose all sense of where you are. Test your
Luck. If you are Unlucky, you feel an intense dizziness
and start staggering from one side of the walkway to
the other. Unable to stop yourself, you stumble and
fall over the side — your adventure is over. If you are
Lucky, you recover at the last moment and find your-
self gazing into what looks like an infinite abyss. If this
is the first time you have experienced this effect, you
will still be disorientated for some days (lose 1 SKILL
point). If you've undergone this trial before, the symp-
toms are not worsened. When you finally come to,
you can’t quite work out where you are, except that
you are on a walkway. Roll one die; if you roll:

1-2 Turn to 177

3-4 Tum to 324

5-6 Tum to 370
fa

At that moment a young Dark EIf comes running in,
holding a piece of paper. ‘Archduke Awlenion?’ he
asks.

One of the elite Guards saunters up to him and takes
the message. Just a few Wood Elves,’ he comments
laconically. Tt will only take a couple of cohorts.’ Some
of the warriors prepare themselves and hurry away
excitedly to battle. However, a lot of them have
stayed behind — obviously they don’t see the Wood

1§-16

Elves as much of a threat. Suddenly you feel strange —
the transformation potion is wearing offf When he
sees what is happening to you, one of the elite Guards
screams, ‘Humant’ and they all attack. You fight as
well as you can, but there are just too many of them.
Your adventure is over,

15
You walk up the dark, narrow track for an hour or so,
until you come to the main Forest trail, You look
south-west down the trail into the Forest, wondering
whether you should go back in, But then you remem-
ber your dream of the black army coming out of the
mountain, so you turn north-east. Tum to 394.

16

You leave the road at once and head north-west
towards the western edge of the Freezeblood wall,
keeping your eyes fixed on the Black Flyers. Once
they have gathered together into a flying formation,
they circle once, before heading north-west. You chase
them as fast as you can, but the Black Flyers gain
speed very quickly and you soon lose sight of them
completely. You sit down for a moment, wondering
despondently what to do next. After a while the
slowly rising sun warms you a little, restoring your
will to go on. Will you return to the road and follow
it into Sardath {turn to 293} or carry on into the
mountains, either north {turn to 17§) or north-west
(turn to 104)?

17-18

17

Holding your bow high, you fire an arrow at the
approaching Giant Eagle. It is not frightened by your
attack and, whether you hit it or not, it keeps on
diving towards you. There is now no time to do
anything but draw your sword. Tum to 8g and fight
the creature, remembering first to deduct 2 points
from its STAMINA if your arrow hit it.

18

You slap your hand over your mouth and pinch your
nostrils closed with your thumb and forefinger. Thus
protected against the spores, you run down the tunnel
until you are past the fungus. However, after just a
few metres, the floor suddenly gives way and you
tumble into a pit, hundreds of metres deep, with only
old Dark Elf bones and your death waiting for you at
the bottom.

Nii i)

a ‘is

irl

‘

19-21

19

During the night there is a noise near by and you
wake up instinctively. Cautiously you open your eyes
and slowly turn your head. Several metres away stands
a Giant Spider, its bulbous body sagging down be-
tween its mottled red legs. It leers at you with its
myriad eyes, obviously intent on attacking. Will you
leap up and charge at it (turn to 156) or draw your
bow swiftly and fire an arrow (turn to 219)?

20
As you walk along the riverbank, you begin to see
just how strong your dark enemy must be. Even
though the canopy of trees is now so dense that
hardly any light shines through, the river is completely
choked with unnatural weeds swirling around, some
seemingly feeding on others, Lazing in the shadows
are grossly bloated fish, nibbling at one another. When
you finally emerge from the Forest, you are relieved
to see the sun shining on the Freezeblood Mountains.
However, as you walk north to Gwinir's Bridge, you
begin to realize that the nightmare is not over, for
there is a terrible darkness hanging over Sardath. With
some trepidation, you walk towards the town. Turn to

21
You take great care as you walk through the Forest,
Even though there are no giant webs to look out for,
there is still the threat of attack by Giant Pirate
Spiders. These creatures drop from trees on a single
thread, injecting their victims with poison before they

22

have a chance to react. Several hours pass, without
any sign of danger, and in the late aftemoon you
arrive at the foot of the South Guard Mountains
unhindered. These are the last obstacle between you
and Sardath. Since you are not a mountaineer, you
cannot climb over them, so you decide to trek round
their western edge. However, as you walk north to the
Zengis Road, you gradually realize that your problems
are only just beginning, for there is a terrible blackness
hanging over Lake Sardmere. Will you carry on north
into the mountains (turn to 104) or travel along the
road towards Sardath (turn to 293)?

22

As the ghostly form of Khornu Wych drifts apart, an
icy wind blows through the tomb and there is a
distant scream, then all is stil]. With renewed confi-
dence, you step up to the empty sarcophagus to take a
closer look. At the back, you can just make out the
faint outline of a door, You push it ... and it opens.
As you step through into the next chamber, a rumbling
sound begins and the ceiling starts to cave in. Luckily
the destruction is only in the area of the doorway —
opening it must have weakened the ages-old building.

23-45

However, when you look around, you realize that you
have not been as lucky as you thought, for there is no
other exit from this chamber! If you have been hit by
the Ghost, turn to 44. Otherwise, turn to 92.

23

Being out at night this close to the mountains is a new
experience for you and you are a little unnerved by
their immense, brooding presence, especially as you
can see them only in dark outline against the night
sky. After you have been walking for several hours,
you distinguish another dark shape. This one is some
way ahead, moving along the road towards you. You
stop and peer into the darkness. The creature coming
towards you is like nothing you have ever seen: a
huge Black Mammoth, its trunk armed with spikes and
its tusks unnaturaliy twisted. Will you draw your bow
and shoot at it (turn to 319), try to hide from it (turn
<0 379), or draw your sword and stand your ground
‘turn to 253)?

24
Test your Luck twice. If you are Lucky both times, turn
to 124, If you are Unlucky either time, turn to 395.

_
Despite your efforts to stop him, Morn locks an inky-
black arm round your throat and squeezes. ‘Now then,’
he says, ‘stand up without struggling and I'll let you
live,” You have no choice but to comply. Once you
are both on your feet, Morn tightens his grip even
curther. ‘In a moment, we are going to run and dive

——k——————E——— eee eee
26

out of the Recess Chamber window. If you want to go
on living, you'll hang on to me.’ Again you have no
choice. Suddenly you are nmning; there is a crash of
glass, a whoosh of air, and you are soaring up into the
dark sky. [n a few moments you are flying out of the
village towards the River Sardath. If you prefer to do
nothing, turn to 373; but if you want to get free, you
will have to struggle against the impostor’s grip. Roll
two dice and work out your Attack Strength, Do the
same for Mom, but deduct 2 points from his Attack
Strength since he is flying as well as trying to hold
you. If the result isa draw or if you win the Attack
Round, you loosen his arms from your neck and let
yourself drop just as you get above the water (turn to
310). If you lose the Attack Round, you are unable to
escape (turn to 3°73).

26
Your mind gives a little mental push and the great
white wings grow out of your back. You spread them
wide and leap from the balcony. For a moment or two,
you are totally absorbed by the exhilaration of flying,
but a shout from below brings you back to your
senses and you see many Dark Elves running to look
at you. It is obvious that you are not a Black Flyer, for
your wings are white and not at all bat-like, Bows are

27-29

drawn, and arrows fired; many of them strike home
and you tumble down towards the Dark Elves, Your
adventure is over.

47
You step up to the door and hammer out the sequence
on the iron knocker. From nowhere a huge, booming
voice echoes round the tunnel: ‘What is the password?’
What will you say:

‘Faegh’? Turn to 91

‘Chaugh’? Turn to 199

‘Elath’? Turn to 343
28

During the night, a Dwarf hand reaches out towards
your neck. As it surrounds your throat, the hand
transforms into a black claw, with long talons that
clutch at your windpipe. The pain wrenches you from
sleep, but you are unable to move or cry out. Your
adventure is over

29
You walk back to the huge door and wait as it opens
for you. You step through and go back down the
stairway to the junction. Some distance along the
walkway, to the left, the warriors are still training, so
you decide to take one of the other options. If you go
straight ahead and down the stairway, turn to 391. If
you go right, you soon reach a junction where a
stairway goes off to the right. Will you go up these
stairs to the balcony and look out (turn to 135) or

30-35

continue along the walkway to an archway in the wall
of the cavern (tum to 228)?

30

If you decide to shoot at them, the Black Flyers, being
creatures of darkness, will easily pick you out as soon
as you have fired two arrows. The first Black Flyer will
then run to attack you and you will have to draw your
sword to defend yourself against it while the other
goes on trying to open the stone door. If you decide
to charge at them without using your bow, you may
make a free attack on one of them (choose your victim
and deduct 2 points from his sTAMINA), This adversary
will then turn to fight you while the other attempts to
open the door. If you kill your first adversary, the
other will leave the door and come to avenge his com-
panion.

SKILL STAMINA
First BLACK FLYER 10 5
Second BLACK FLYER 7 7

If you win, turn to 262.

31

As the Dark Elf turns his back on you, you realize you
have the perfect opportunity to take him by surprise.
You draw your sword swiftly and strike him on the
back of the neck. Roll two dice. If the total is less than
or equal to your sxiLL, you kill him instantly. If the
total is greater than your SKILL, you get in a good hit,
stunning him momentarily. However, his armour saves
his life and he is able to turn and defend himself.

352

ELITE DARK ELF SKILL 9 STAMINA 6

If you defeat the Dark EIf, you drag his body on to
the walkway and drop it over the side. Then you walk
back to the archway and go through the door. Turn to
103.

32
The trader looks anxious. ‘I beg you to reconsider,’ he
whines. ‘I’ve been waiting just outside the village for
ages for someone like you to come along. I hoped I
could fool you into thinking that I had just arrived
with fresh stock, The truth is, { haven't sold anything
for days. If it wasn’t for the danger, I would have left a
long time ago and headed west for Zengis. But, alas
... He pauses for a moment, then grins. ‘Tell you
what, I'll give you a mystery free gift if you agree to
buy something.” You ask him what kind of ‘mystery
gift’. ‘A potion, he says. You narrow your eyes —
you'd guessed that much. ‘Honestly, I don’t know
what it is. That’s why it’s a mystery!’ He laughs
nervously. Will you now agree to buy some of his
potions (turn to 105), or will you decline the trader's
offer and continue on your way (turn to 130)?

Pe ec lee
33-35

33
Since there is no path up the mountain, you are forced

to scramble up its ridges and scree slopes as best you
can. Your hands and feet gradually become numb with
the cold and you flinch every time you have to push
your hand through a patch of snow to find a hold.
Suddenly there is a flash of lightning and a terrible
explosion of sound. For an instant all you can see is a
bright whiteness; then, as your sight gradually retums,
you see a figure in a black robe standing in front of
you. If you have met Thyra, turn to 8o. If you have
not, will you attack the figure (turn to 2§9), kneel
before it (turn to 315), or try to talk to it (tum to 117)?

As you approach, you recognize the flowers as those
of the Death Dripper, a highly dangerous carnivorous
plant. If you were to touch its roots, the Aowers
would drip a fast-acting contact poison on to you — a
tisk you cannot afford to take. You turn your back on
the plant and keep on walking north-west, thanking
the teachings of Sorrel for saving your life. Obviously
the former owner of the sword was not so fortunate,
Some hours later, as the sun is beginning to set, you
approach the fork in the road where the Elf village is
hidden among the trees. Turn to 332,

35
You walk all night without finding any landmark to
tell you where you are. Sometimes you go uphill, at
other times down. As the night wears on you become
increasingly tired (deduct 2 point from your STAMINA).

36

Eventually, the night draws to an end {tick off the next
day on your Adventure Sheet), and in the dawn light
you make out a road a short distance away. As you
walk towards it, the sun comes up and you can see
that you are still on the Fangthane Road, about half a
kilometre from where you started. You also see a
merchant wagon coming towards you from the east.
The traveller is a Dwarf, obviously a trader from
Fangthane. ‘Good day to you, adventurer,’ he says in
his lilting north-eastem accent. You greet him, and ask
him if he’s going to Sardath. ‘I am,’ he replies. ‘Can I
give you a lift?’ Will you accept his offer (turn to 220)
or warn him that there is danger in Sardath and that
he should turn back (tum to 266)?

36

Using the same route as you did before, you find your
way back to the Dwarfs’ sanctuary. The search for
Lokimur takes some time but eventually you find him,
surrounded by chaos and frantically giving orders to
these round him. ‘Have you retumed to fight with us
against the Toa-Suo?’ he asks when he finally notices
you. If you say that you have, turn to 74. If you say
that you want to speak with him again, he becomes
embarrassed; clearly he is far too busy. ‘It pains me to
have to be so discourteous to so brave an adventurer,’
he says, ‘but I am responsible for many lives.’ You tel!
him that you understand, and leave him to continue
his work.

A Dwarf guard then escorts you out of the mine, and
leads you to the south-east side of the pass. ‘It is not

37

safe to go down on the other side,’ he says, ‘unless
you would like to fight the Toa-Suo single-handed.’
You thank him for his advice and begin your descent.
Some time later, you get back to the mountain trail in
the valley, Will you now go north-east towards the
spire-shaped mountain (turn to 323), or south-west
towards the river (turn to 240)?

37

You immediately think of Bistort, the Forest Wood EIf
who gave you the Snake Ring. When you say his
name, his image appears on the surface of the pool.
You speak to him, but he looks confused: he can hear
you but cannot see you. Once you have explained to
him what is going on, you tell him where you are and
what has happened

Excellent,’ he says, ‘Do what you can. We are already
in the mountains and will be with you soon.’ You
warn him of the Black Flyers. ‘Wood Elves do not fear
Dark Elves, whether they have wings or not. Try to
get inside and free the slaves. With us fighting from
the outside and you fighting from the inside, we will
have them.’ You say that you will do what you can
‘You have already done more than we could have
hoped, We are grateful and our thoughts are with
you. As he says this, your Snake Ring doubles its
length to fourteen coils and you tell Bistort that his
energy is reaching you. ‘Yes,’ he says, Elf rings are
sensitive in that way.’

You bid him farewell and tell him that you will see
him soon. Before he has a chance to reply, his image

38-39

fades; the smooth, cultured voice comes into your
head: ‘To whom do you wish to speak?’ Turn back to
99 and make another choice.

38

The only weapon you have to hand is your sword, so
you draw if as swiftly as you can and lunge at the
Sorcerer. His eyes flash bright yellow and the air
between you crackles with energy, Before you have
covered half the distance between you, you are para-
lysed, standing as still as a statue with your sword out-
stretched.

‘So it was just foolishness, after all.’ He shakes his
head, apparently saddened by your weakness. ‘Good-
bye.’ His eyes flash once more and your mind goes
blank. Your adventure is over.

39

‘Thyra Migurn is a powerful demi-god who lives on
the spire-shaped mountain, some way east of here.
Storm Mountain, we call it in your language. I would
not recommend you seeing her, for she seems to
despise us all. She used to send storms to stop our
mining activities, but we promised her that in due
course we would refill all the tunnels we had made.
For a while she was appeased, but we still need to
send regular delegations to speak to her. It is a difficult
job and many of them come back injured by the
lightning she wields,’

If this is the second question that you have asked

40-41

Lokimur, turn to 274. If it is only the first, you may
ask another. What will it be about:

What's happened to Sardath? Turn to 97
Corianthus (if you know of him)? Tur to 181
The Black Flyers? Turn to 368
The Toa-Suo? Turn to 385

40
There are many boats idling in the river. As you hurtle
towards the water, you see a small empty rowing boat
lying directly beneath you. A second later you crash
into it, wrecking it completely (roll one die and deduct
that many points from your sTAMINA). If you survive,
you glance upwards to see whether Morn is still there.
He is circling around, so you take a deep breath and
float, face down, in the water. You move downriver a
little way, then lift your head for a moment to take
another breath. Then you put your face back in the
water, After ten minutes of this, you cautiously turn
your head and look up into the sky again. It is difficult
to tell in the darkness, but you’re fairly sure that Morn
has flown away. Relieved to have escaped, but glad
because of what you have learned from the encounter,
you swim to the bank of the river and climb out, Wet
and cold, you make your way back to the Council
Hall. Turn to 291.

41
Roll two dice and deduct 1 from the total. If this value
is less than or equa! to your SKILL, turn to 213. If it is
greater than your SKILL, turn to 386,

SO
¥

Mb bhne bb

4243

42

The laboratory is filled with a vast array of complex
chemical apparatus. In the far corner, to your left, there
is a gaping hole in the wall, leading to a dim, torch-lit
tunnel. Against the wall next to this hole is a huge
potion-making apparatus, with three funnels on top. If
you have any magical components (not including any
potions like the Mystery Potion or any of the Love
Potions), you may climb on to the enormous bench
and try to make a potion from them. Put one ingredient
in each funnel, and then pull the lever to set the
apparatus in motion. If you write the number of each
of the components on the funnels (in pencil so that
you can rub them out later), you will get a three-figure
number; turn to that paragraph. If you manage to
make a potion, you will be told immediately. However,
if the paragraph makes no sense, turn to 190.

If you decide not to tamper with the apparatus, you
search the room but find nothing else of any use, so
you decide to leave. Will you go back through the
door into the Library (turn back to 166) or enter the
tunnel {turn to 102)?

43
With incredible bravery that is bordering on the fool-
hardy, you leap back towards the wagon to attack the
monster before it can devour Fangnir.

CHTHONIAN TRAPPER  sKILL io STAMINA 14

If you manage to kill this fearsome creature, you drag
Fangnir, unharmed, out of the wreckage of his wagon.

44

But all his goods are lost and his poor horses are dead.
All Fangnir can do for a few minutes is moan about his
loss but, once he understands what has happened, he
thanks you profusely for saving his life (regain 1 Luck
point); now, though, there is nothing for him to do
but make his way back to Fangthane. You bid him
farewell and watch as he trudges off east, mumbling to
himself. You too must continue on foot. Will you
travel west towards Sardath (turn to 232) or turn
north and head into the mountains (turn to 357)?

44

A sudden subtle pain grips your body, and a great
weakness afflicts your spirit; the touch of a Ghost can
prove deadly. Your abilities as an adventurer and a
warrior have been reduced; deduct points from your
SKILL, STAMINA and LUCK scores as listed in the
following table:

NUMBER SKILL STAMINA LUCK
OF HITS LOST LOST LOST
t2, 1 2 1
3-4 2 4 2
5-6 4 8 3
7-8 7 14 4
9-10 11 22 5

If you have been hit more than 10 times, you are

dead

If you survive this seizure, you will be relieved to
learn that its effects are not permanent. Potions, Herbs
and so on will all cure you in the normal way,

|
|

a

‘
'

45

testoring your life-force in the process. Now turn to
g2 to find out what manner of place it is that you are
trapped in.

45

You walk along the badly overgrown path for several
hours, keeping a look out for Giant Spiders. Suddenly
... Test your Luck. If you are Unlucky, you feel a rush
of air and are pushed to the ground by a hot, sticky
body and a mass of legs. There is a sharp pain in your
neck as a Giant Pirate Spider injects you with its
poison. In just a few moments you are paralysed and
you will be eaten at the Spider's leisure. If you are
Lucky, you see the Spider before it drops and just
have time to dodge out of its way. It hangs over the
path on a single thread, its myriad eyes staring at you
and its huge jaws clicking. When you draw your
sword, however, it scuttles nervously back up into the
tree, You skirt round it and walk on. Many hours later,
as evening is approaching, you decide to stop and
make camp, so you shake out your blankets, eat a little
food, and settle down to sleep. Turn to 82.

pe —(
46-47

46
Just as the Bectle reaches you, you leap out of its way.
Unable to change direction, it goes thundering past
you, straight into the web of a Giant Spider. With
lightning speed, the Spider scuttles down its web and
attacks the writhing creature, Within seconds it is still.
The Spider clamps its jaws round the body and hauls it
high up in the tree, where you can see it wrapping the
Beetle in silk to be hung for eating later on, Tum to 308.

47
You walk east between the ridge and the river until

you come to a junction where the river is joined by a
tributary coming down from the north: it is a raging
torrent of water, flowing just past the eastern edge of
the ridge. Since it is unfordable, you are forced to turn
and walk north along its bank. When you reach the
north side of the ridge, you see that the stream
descends from a fascinating, spire-shaped mountain, so
high that you can get only an occasional glimpse of its
sharp peak through the clouds. A massive storm is
raging in these clouds, with bright lightning flashes

48-49

and rumbles of thunder. Will you follow the stream
towards the mountain (tum to 182) or avoid it by
rurning north-west (turn to 145)?

48

Beyond the archway is a short corridor, an enclosed
space whose walls and ceiling shield you from having
to look at the insane nature of the bottomless cavern,
Tentatively at first, but then more confidently, you
take in your surroundings. The corridor is roughly
carved, with strange fungi growing on the damp walls,
and the dim torches hiss and spit when drips of water
fall on them from the ceiling. About ten metres away
there is an archway on the left; a few metres further
on, the corridor ends at a door, Carefully avoiding any
contact with the fungi, you walk along to the archway
which, you can now see, leads back out into the
bottomless cavern. Will you go through the archway
(tum to 236) or carry on along the corridor and go
through the door (turn to 205)?

49
In the middle of the night you wake up, only to find
yourself bound by a mass of thick, sticky spider webs.
A Giant Spider, rearing up on its four hind legs, is
spitting threads at you from some distance away. As
you struggle to free yourself, the Spider skitters to-
wards you, its bloated, yellow-spotted body pulsating
with excitement. Roll two dice. If the total is greater
than your SkILL, you are unable to free yourself and
the Spider will fall on you before you can retaliate
Though in no way a fighter, since it has you in its web

$O-51

the Giant Spitting Spider can drop its loathsome body
on top of you and inject you with its paralysing
poison, putting an untimely end to both your life and
your mission. However, if the total rolled is less than
or equal to your SKILL, you escape from the webs just
as the Spider falls on you. Turn to 320,

50
The whole sky is black with thick clouds; there is
absolutely no sign of the sun. You can see a faint
glimmer of light on the horizon, but Sardath and the
mountains and forest that surround it are shrouded in
darkness. Not only that: the skies are filled with Black
Flyers. Having suppressed the peoples of this area for
many days, they have bought their Sorcerer enough
time for him to create this transformation. The area
now belongs to them, You have failed,

51
This side of the pass is something like an amphitheatre:
a beautiful blue-green lake, surrounded on all sides by
steep cliffs On the north side of the lake there is
another pass, where the cliffs are lower and slope at a
safe angle for walking. On the south side, the water
from the lake flows into a stream, a raging torrent
which surges through a gap in the cliffs. The several
hundred metres of descent are much worse than the
climbing was: every step sends a jolt through your
legs. By the time you reach the bottom, you are
desperate for a rest and a long, icy-cold drink from the
lake. Having rested, will you now go round to the
north side of the lake and start climbing the scree

52

slope up to the north pass (tum to 285) or follow a
rough track to a bridge at the head of the stream (tum
tO 224)?

52
The chief of the Slykk stabs his sword into the clump
of reeds in front of him and the warriors lower their
spears. The Slykk on his jeft steps forward. ‘Rurkk,’ he
says, pointing to himself and rattling the chain of
dried fish-heads round his neck, ‘Skykk magic.’ In stilted
Allansian and improvised sign language, you parley,
with Rurkk translating for his chief. After several
minutes of this, the chief croaks at Rurkk and makes a
strange facial gesture. ‘Must know where boats,’ Rurkk
says to you.

You tell Rurkk in some detail about your mission and
the events that led you to undertake it

Know this creature!’ says Rurkk when you fell him
about Morn Preeler. He then describes an Elf-like
creature, but with jet-black skin, who magically imper-
sonated a Slykk and mixed with the tribe — until Rurkk

53

exposed him, ‘Elf carry this,’ Rurkk says and hands you
a small bundle wrapped in a piece of leather (which
you may examine at any time by tuming to paragraph
278). Rurkk says ‘Will now go.’ You look up, but the
Slykk have vanished into the reeds. You must move
on: will you now sail on up the river (tum to 397), sail
to the east bank and walk north into the forest (turn to
267), or sail to the west bank and walk south-west into
the marsh (turn to 64)?

, 53

As you leave the other two Black Flyers behind, you
try to get Iulien to tell you more of his people’s plans,
but every question you ask is met with silence, so you
abandon this tack and concentrate on working out
where you are. A long way beneath you, the forest is
still streaking past; ahead you can see a small group of
mountains. It must be the South Guard.

A couple of hours later, when you have flown over
the South Guard to Lake Sardmere, you finally see
why no one has come from Sardath; the bridge has
been destroyed and a huge army of Black Flyers is
attacking the town, Nevertheless the citizens of
Sardath, led by Ydys Tinner’s army, are managing
somehow to keep them at bay. Now that you are over
the lake, there is a chance for you to escape. If you
don’t want to take it, turn to 352. If you do, you will
have to wrestle free of lulien’s grip. Roll two dice and
work out your Attack Strength. Do the same for Iulien
(skiLL 7), but deduct 2 points from his Attack Strength
since he is flying as well as trying to keep hold of you.

54

If the result is a draw or if you win the Attack Round,
you tear his arms from you and drop into the lake
(turn to 255). If you lose the Attack Round, you may
make two further attempts. If you still can’t escape,
turn to 35%,

54
‘Is no matter,’ he says, clutching the bundle to his

chest. He mutters something else in his own language,
then turns away. He doesn’t seem to expect a reply, so
you just stand there for a moment, watching him walk
back along the street, When he disappears round a
corner, you turn back the way you were going and
walk on down the main road. Turn to 354

55—-$7

55
Suddenly a great quantity of Slykk rise up out of the
river and advance towards you, spears raised. Instinc-
tively you gesture with your bow in a threatening
manner towards the Slykk in front of you. The tribe
stops, then one of them moves forward a little way-
Being heavily laden with jewellery and other plunder,
you reckon he must be the tribe's chief. If you wish to
use your advantage in order to escape, you may back
off into the Forest and head north (turn to 267) — they
will not attack. If you try to talk to the Slykk, turn to

355-

56

When several of the Dark Elves look at you suspi-
dously, you realize you have made a mistake. The one
who spoke to you says something else in his strange
language, but you have no idea how to reply. Instead,
you just turn and run. With so many warriors on your
tail, however, you have no chance of escape. Your
adventure ends here.

57
As you stride out, the first few kilometres are bright
and pleasant and the air clean and crisp. The forest on
the opposite side of the river looks as dark as ever, but
the farmland on this side is open and airy. As your
journey progresses, the tall pines encroach on the
track. You, of course, don’t fear the forest’s shadowy
atmosphere, but there do seem to be more eyes
peering at you from the dark spaces between the trees
than you remember, and the background noise of

58

unknown creatures is closer. You suppress your misgiv-
ings and press on,

Towards midday you arrive at the point where the
track crosses the river. You curse as you approach, for
the ropes have been torn down from the trees on this
side. You would never dare to swim the river since it
is icy cold and infested with predatory fish. However,
you could try swinging across on one of the tree
creepers (turn to 85). Otherwise, you will have to
carry on along the riverbank into the dark, pathless
forest (turn to 342).

‘It’s my duty to check everybody,’ he says. ‘I am one
of the Sorcerer's Personal Guard. You know we're the
toughest warriors in these caverns, so don’t try to
cross me.’

‘But you recognized me,’ you insist. ‘Surely you don’t
need to waste your time on formalities for someone
you know both by name and by face?’

59-60

‘Obviously you know nothing about security,’ he
replies loftily. “You only get in if you're on the list.’
Will you let him tum to go (turn to 31) or attack him
(turn to 250)?

You follow the track for some distance, walking gently
downhill between the immense mountain to the north
and the long, sharp ridge to the south. Eventually you
come to another track which goes north-west up a
steep slope to a mountain pass. Will you go north-
west (turn to ro8) or carry on south-west (turn to
240)?

60
In order to dodge the Beetle, your timing must be
perfect. Write down a number between 1 and 6 on
your Adventure Sheet; this represents the time at which
you decide to jump. Now roll one die; this represents
the time at which the Beetle would hit you. If your
guess is exactly right or is only z lower or higher than
the Beetle’s number, turn to 46. If your guess is 2 or

a OOO
61-62

more less than the Beetle’s number, you jumped too
early. The Beetle swerves and is able to deliver a
glancing blow (deduct 1 point from your stAMINa) If
your guess is 2 or more higher than the Beetle’s
number, you jumped too late, and the Beetle hits you
squarely in the middle (deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA), Alter hitting you, the giant insect skids to
a halt and tums to charge. If you try to dodge again,
retum to the beginning of this paragraph Otherwise,
you will have to fight it with your sword (turn to
283).

61
The Black Mammoth lumbers to the opposite side of
the road and, for a minute or so, peers into the
vegetation. Then it turns round and walks towards
you. It stops, looking straight at you, but you keep
perfectly still, A few agonizingly tense moments pass,
then the creature tums away, resuming its journey
east. After about a hundred metres, it turns off the
toad and heads north into the mountains When it is
out of sight, you climb out of your hiding place, walk
back to the road, and resume your own journey
towards Sardath. Turn to 165.

62
Holding your breath against the spores, you walk into
the tunnel. Before you even get close to the Dark Elf,
however, several of the Elf Bane puffballs burst and
you are enveloped in a cloud of spores. Remarkably,
though, none of them settles on your skin: they
burrowed into Liethif’s body almost as soon as he

63

entered, so humans must be immune to them. Even so,
you hold your breath as you search through the Dark
Elf's belongings. Since he was dressed in ceremonial
tobes, he has little in the way of equipment, although
you do find a huge set of jailer’s keys hanging from
his belt (if ever you are asked ‘What is it?’, add 10 to
the number of the paragraph you are reading at the
time and turn immediately to the paragraph with that
number). By now, your lungs feel as if they are going
to burst, so you run out of the tunnel. From what you
have seen, you are sure that the slavers’ camp has
nothing else to offer you, so you decide to leave. Turn
to 123,

63
‘As soon as you slide the key into the lock, the huge
stone door grinds open, revealing a long walkway
back in the bottomless cavern. You lower your gaze to
avoid the sight of the insane Dark Elf architecture, and
step out, The door closes behind you. There is a
staircase at the end of the walkway, leading downwards
to an archway. The corridor is filled with yet more
madness. The subjects of the wall paintings aren’t too
dad; a Dark Elf sorcerer hypnotizing Dwarfs, conjuring
strange monsters and annihilating dragons with floating
spheres of blackness. But if is all in such an inhuman
style that the depth of the Sorcerer’s evil is made very
plain. Half-way along the corridor there are two doors,
one on each side, and you can see a set of Iron Keys
hanging on the wall next to the door on the left. You
decide to take the keys (note them on your Adventure
Sheet). Now, will you go through the door on the left

64-65

{tum to 128), carry straight on and go through the
door at the end of the corridor (turn to 164), or go
through the door on the right (turn to 109)?

64
Walking through the marsh is difficult and uncomfortable
and, no matter how hard you try, you cannot keep your
feet dry. You see no sign of any Slykk, though you are
sure they are watching you. Some time later, you Seave
the marsh and make your way back to the dry forest you
prefer. After a kilometre or so, you come to a small grove
of rowan trees, with some fine healing herbs growing
round their roots (add 2 to your Herbs). For the rest of the
day, you walk through the ever-darkening forest, carefully
avoiding the webs of Giant Spiders. Towards evening
you arrive at the Elf-path near Ash Cleeve. Turn to 332.

65

As you approach the table, one of the Dark Elves
looks up from his food and shouts, ‘Hey, soldier. Fetch
me some wine.’ You hesitate, ‘Don’t you understand
Allansian?’ he demands. ‘I thought all your lot were
learning it. Or perhaps you think that serving is
beneath you? You may be a Warrior Lord, but that
means nothing here. We are High Nobility.’

Unsure as to the appropriate response, you agree to
do what he asks, but in a tone which implies that you
feel insulted. This seems to satisfy the Dark Elf and he
goes back to stuffing his face with small pieces of
strange-looking meat. They are all laughing and drink-
ing, paying no attention to you, so you could spike

66

the Dark Elfs wine while you are pouring it. If you
have a Love Potion and you pour it into his goblet,
turn to 176. If you have a Sleeping Draught and pour
this into his goblet, turn to 311. If you have neither of
these, or if you don’t want to use them, the Dark Elf
snatches the goblet from you and drains the wine in a
single swallow (turn to rr),

66
The Eagle spreads its wings in order to slow itself
down, then lands gently. It takes a few hopping steps
towards you, then flies up a few metres before landing
again. It repeats this action several times, until you
realize what it is trying to say: if you wish, it will
carry you up the mountain. When you tell the Eagle
that you understand, it flies into the air, banks, turns,
then swoops down and plucks you from the ground.
Its claws bite a tittle way into your shoulders, but you
can sense that it is trying not to hurt you. As soon as
you are in the air, it screeches loudly and begins to
circle. It must be waiting for your instructions. Will
you ask it to take you to where the Black Flyers come
from (turn to 221) or to Corianthus’s Castle (turn to

141)?

67-69

67

One of them moves forward slightly. Being heavily
laden with jewellery and other plunder, he must be the
tribe’s chief. He makes a gesture to the rest of the
Slykk and they hold their fire. Then he gestures and
croaks at you. He doesn’t look threatening, but he
doesn’t look particularly friendly, either He hands his
spear to the Slykk nearest him and draws his sword.
He points it at the ground and makes some more
croaking noises. Then he points first at you, then at
himself, This is a very delicate situation, requiring a
careful response. Will you lay your sword in the
bottom of your boat and sail towards him (turn to §2)
or draw your sword and hold it in front of you in the
salute for single combat (turn to 147)?

= Si
o -=he Va

_.—)
——

=

68

You ask Jonnan about Corianthus, the Storm Giant. 1
have heard the legend,’ he replies, ‘but I’ve no idea
whether it’s true or not. It’s said that he lives in a
castle on a mountain somewhere to the north of here,
but I don’t know where. Some of the Dwarfs probably
know about it, but none of them has ever told me.’ It
is clear that Corianthus values his privacy, so you
decide not to te]l Jonnan about Colrhyn and the Brass
Key. Turn to 305.

Even though the impostor struggles furiously, you
manage to lock your arms round his neck. He struggles
again, but you simply tighten your hold. In one swift
movement, you take one of your hands from round

ANAL {

7O-7FI

Morm’s neck, grab your sword and hold it at his
throat. You tell him that you won't hesitate to kill him
if he tries to escape.

‘You'll get nothing out of me,’ he says and, before you
can move your blade, he twists his head and slumps
forward. Tum to 249.

79

As your final blow hits the Mirror Demon, a network of
cracks appears on her face and body, With an ear-
splitting crash, she shatters into a million pieces of
glass. The shield from which she emerged falls to the
floor and shatters, revealing a narrow tunnel sloping
upwards. As the noise of breaking glass dies down,
another takes its place: a deep rumbling sound. Realizing
that the whole place is beginning to break up, you
clamber into the tunnel and set off on all fours for the
surface. After a few metres the tunnel ends at a stone
slab in the ceiling. You push, but it won’t budge. Then
you remember the Sign of Summoning; you tap the slab
three times with your sword and it slides open. All that
stands between you and freedom are a few centimetres
of soil and grass roots and you break through easily. As
you drag yourself out on to the top of the mound, an
icy wind springs up, and the ground begins to shake,
You leap off the mound just as the entire crypt caves in.
Khomu’s tomb is sealed for ever. Turn to 349.

71
The tunnel twists and turns, leaving dark shadows in
the corners, and you proceed very warily, half expect-

72-73

ing something sinister to leap out at any moment.
After several hundred metres, you reach a heavy stone
door with a huge iron knocker set in the centre. If Istu
is with you, turn immediately to 256. If you are alone,
you push at the door but it is as firm as the rock all
around you. lf you know the knocking sequence, add
the nurnbers together and turn to the paragraph with
that number. If you do not, turn to 374

72

As you go west, the ridge slopes gradually downwards
until it reaches the level of the river, Here you find a
landing-stage and a track leading north-east into the
mountains. A number of rafts are moored here, but
most of them are no better than wrecks. One of them,
however, is still in good enough condition to carry
you, although it would probably sink if you tried to
load it up. Will you get on this raft and punt it west
‘turn to 326), or follow the track north-east (turn to
5)?

73
You take out a sprig of Quagwart (deduct 1 from your
Herbs), and give half to each monster, They swallow it
down hungrily and gaze at you, begging for more,
their eyes growing fiercer all the time. Then they stop
looking fierce, cock their heads to one side and a
questioning expression crosses their faces. One of
them starts to whimper. After a few seconds, they sag
to their knees and crawl back to their respective
roadsides. They both lie there, wallowing in self-pity.
and you are able to walk confidently past. As you go

74-75

down the road, you hope, despite yourself, that they
won't become too ill. Turn to 399.

74
Lokirnur thanks you and assures you that your special
skills will be greatly appreciated. He Jeads you through
several tunnels bustling with Dwarfs running to their
battle stations. ‘Ah,’ says Lokimur as you encounter an
older, battle-wom Dwarf, ‘Roxsir, take care of our
newest recruit.” Before Roxsir has a chance to reply,
Lokimur has gone striding off down the tunnel.

Right then, youngster,” says Roxsir, 'l understand that
you're quite a warrior.” You reply that you have seen
plenty of action in your time, Roxsir «miles, ‘Dwarf
and human have fought together on many an occasion
— always on the side of Good, and often on the side of
victory, We shall make some tales today.” You agree
and add that you hope they will have a happy ending.
There's no doubt about it, he says. ‘Now, where can
we fit you in? Will you join the few archers on the
highest rampart (turn to 158), the boulder throwers on
the lower rampatt (turn to 284), or the rampart axe
warriors (turn to ars)?

75
You search the doorway very thoroughly, examining
the edges, feeling for hinges and secret locks. Roll two
dice. If the tota! is less than or equal to your SKILL,
turn to 303. If the total is greater than your sxi1t, turn
to 364,

~h & =

76-77

76
As you stand there plotting their downfall, a group of
about fifteen Dark Elves emerge from one of the side
streets. The artisan is with them. “Valethion, Chaugh,’
he says. ‘Frithign na crogchan Camcarneyar.’

Realizing that you should have been more forceful
when you met him before, you glare at him. ‘I have
already told about speaking Allansian,’ you tell him.
‘Now | must —

‘It’s too late for that,’ says another Dark EIf, stepping
forward and drawing his sword. ‘He just said that you
are not worthy to be a Camcarneyar, The real Lord
Chaugh would have killed him for that.’ Against so
many you have no chance. Your adventure is over.

You follow the walkway for some distance until it is
met by another coming from the left Will you now
go left (turn to 146) or carry straight on (turn to 358)?

78-79

78

As you open the door, sunlight streams into the room
A figure runs into the shadows. ‘Valethion, human,’
says the Dark Elf. You draw your sword, warning him
to be quiet. ‘It’s just a greeting. You should say,
alt Thional” in reply’ You tell him that you are not in
oe che mood to be polite. ‘No matter, says the Dark EIf,
MO Rey t and he throws a smalf wooden box at the door,
‘cy snocking it closed. With the sunlight blocked out, he
mw iyy d Hi ‘eaps forward to attack you. There is no time to use

oR ba your bow
DARK ELF SKILL 8 STAMINA 6

i i MA

WIEN, yy

you win, you find that there are many games in this
room and a table with several puzzles on it, Of
mterest is a square grid, filled with numbered tiles
except for one empty square. If you manage to
complete the puzzle, multiply your answer by 10 and
turn to that paragraph. If it is correct you will be told
so immediately. If the paragraph you turn to does not
make sense, turn to 304.

if you decide not to touch the puzzle, you leave the
Games Room and returm to the Observatory. Will you
go through the door on your left into the Library
‘turn to 166) or go straight on through the unmarked
door (turn to 110)?

79
He smiles. “You must think me very foolish if you

2 _ Ss expect me to fall for that trick. 1 suppose you have
a a : sess some kind of shield against physical magic to comple-

80-81

ment the mental defences of the amulet.’ He pauses,
frowning. ‘But what?’

Will you tell him that the magic that protects you is
so strong that he will not even be able to detect its
presence, let alone penetrate it {turn to 239), suddenly
look panic-stricken and say that the amulet’s power is
waning (turn to 121), or tell him that, since you are
defended against physical magic, his best option might
be to attack your mind (turn to 312)?

80

Thyra throws back the cowl of her robe, revealing a
ball of ery plasma where her head should be. ‘So,
brave adventurer, you have retumed. The plasma
shimmers and changes colour as she speaks. ‘Although
1 should say “foolish” rather than “brave”. I told you
of my wrath, and you did not heed my warning,’ For a
few seconds, all you know is heat and light ... and
then it is over,

81
The Freezeblood Wall is too steep and treacherous a
set of mountains for you to climb, so you must skirt
round its eastern edge. After travelling for some dis-
tance, you observe a black shape at the foot of one of
the numerous rocky crags. It is not far away, so you
climb up to investigate. When you get there, you find
that the shape is, in fact, the corpse of a Dark EIf
which has been dead for at least a week. The creature
seems to have been stripped of its weapons and
armour, and it was not carrying a pack. Nevertheless a

82

thorough investigation is always worth while. Rol]
two dice. Add together the numbers rolled, then
modify the result, depending on what day it is, accord-
ing to the following table:

Moonday deduct 4
Fireday deduct 2
Earthday no modification
Windsday add 2
Seaday add 4

If the result is less than or equal to your sKILL, turn to
152, If the result is greater than your sxiLz, you find
nothing on the Dark EIf's body, so you decide to leave
it where it is and carry on north into the mountains
turn to 17§).

82
Neither the track nor the Forest has any ground cover,
so your bed is rough and cold, and you don’t get
much sleep (deduct 1 point from your sTAMINA).

In the blue pre-dawn (tick off the next day on your
Adventure Sheet), you are woken by the sound of
something coming through the trees. When it appears,
you instantly recognize the Giant Wolf Spider, a
webless predator much fiercer than the wolf it is
named after. It moves towards you on its long, thin
legs, its huge mandibles clicking hungrily. There is just
time to fire one arrow at it if you want to.

GIANT WOLF SPIDER SKILL 9 STAMINA 8

If you win, you break camp and set off, eating a little

83-84

breakfast as you go. The trees loom large over the Elf-
path, and it grows ever darker until you can hardly see
the sun. Towards midday, the path leaves the Forest
and you are relieved to follow it. However, as you
walk north to the Zengis Road, you gradually realize
that the nightmare is far from over, for there is a
terrible blackness hanging over Lake Sardmere. Will
you carry on northwards into the mountains (tum to
286) or travel along the road to Sardath (turn to 293)?

\

83
Although the Vampyric Mould has done you no
physical damage, it has managed to crawl up your legs
and now covers a large portion of your torso. There is
nothing you can do to stop it making its way to your
brain and turning you into another Mould Zombie
Your adventure is over.

B4
Test your Luck, deducting 1 from the dice roll for each
hit you have taken from the Mammoth. If you are
Lucky, the monster nudges you with its spiked trunk

?

*
~~

85-86

and you flop over on to your back, giving the most
atelike impression of being dead that you can, and the
Mammoth is convinced. If you are Unlucky, the Mam-
moth suspects that you are feigning death and is
snally convinced only after it has whacked you a
couple of times with its spiked trunk as you lie on the
zround {deduct 4 points from your sTAMINA). Having
seen fooled into thinking that you are dead; the
‘{ammoth loses interest in you, turns northwards and
znunders off into the mountains. Once it is out of
sight, you get to your feet and resume your journey
towards Sardath {tum to 166).

85
You climb up one of the trees and reach out for the
nearest creeper. Roll two dice. If the total is less than
or equal to your skiLL, turn to 174. If the total is
greater than your SKILL, turn to 210.

86
Try as you may, you can find no way to open the
stone door. You race around the now deserted quarters

87

of the elite Guard but are unable to find a route to the
Sorcerer, so you return to the bottomless cavern. When
you get there you hear chanting coming from some-
where above you. You dare not look up, for the insane
architecture would destroy your mind. But you don't
need to, for the effect of the spell is obvious: the Dark
Elves have become enveloped by auras of dark power,
and each warrior fights like ten. The surface dwellers
are going to lose, and your adventure ends here.

There are many boats in the river, lying idle now that
the town has been cut off. For a moment, you think
you are going to hit one, but fortune prevails and you
land in the water (deduct 1 point fom your sTAMINA).
[If you survive, you glance upwards to see whether
Morn is still there. He is circling around, so you take a
deep breath and lie, face down, in the water. You float
down river for a little way, then lift your head a
fraction, taking another breath. Not wanting to take

88-89

any chances, you put your face back in the water.
After ten minutes of this, you cautiously turn your
nead and look up into the sky. It is difficult to tell in
the darkness, but you're sure that Mom has gone.
Relieved to have escaped, but glad of what you have
learned from the encounter, you swim to the bank of
the river and climb out. Wet and cold, you make your
way back to the Council Hall. Turn to 2gr.

88
One of the Slykk is lighter and faster than the other,
and he soon races ahead of his companion. You decide
to fire at him.

First SLYKK

i## you hit him, turn to 297, If you miss him, there is
still time to loose another arrow, If this hits him, turn
to 297. If you miss again, you have now run out of
time. You quickly sling your bow over your shoulder
and draw your sword (turn to 207),

SKILL 8 STAMINA 2

89
The Giant Eagle swoops in at great speed, raking a
gouge in your shoulder before you can react (deduct 2
points from your STAMINA). The bird banks and turns,
then swoops again. This time you are ready for it.

GIANT EAGLE

If the Eagle wins two Attack Rounds in a row, turn
immediately to 339. If you win the fight, did you
follow the runnel up the mountain (turn to 296), or did
you come up by some other route (turn to 388)?

SKILL 8 STAMINA 12

90-91

go

As you tum to fire, the eyes vanish beneath the water.
You loose an arrow at the clump of weeds and wait. A
few bubbles come up, but you cannot tell whether az
not you hit anything. That is the last you see of the
strange eyes, but you somehow feel that some of the
darkness that has been infesting the Forest has crep:
inside you (lose 1 Luck point), Some time towards
midday, you ready your bow again, for you are
entering Siykk territory. The reeds here are denser
than ever and it is difficult to keep your boat in clear
water, While you are manoeuvring through a particu-
larly narrow channel, a number of the slimy frog-
people rise out of the reeds on either side of you
spears raised, croaking with anticipation. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 67. If you are Unlucky
turn to 147,

gI
Using a calmer tone the voice says, “You may enter,
and the stone door opens, seemingly by itself. At the
far side of the door there is a narrow tunnel, whic
you follow for about fifty metres, lt emerges at las:
into a seemingly bottomless cavern, and you are
seized by an unexpected attack of vertigo. Once you
have recovered, you see that a long, narrow walkway
extends from where you are standing, and you glance
across the cavern to see where it goes. You are
shocked by a terrifying glimpse of the Dark EIf lair,
which is of such a wild geometry and architecture that
it makes you flinch and avert your gaze. Will you
force yourself to look at the lair (turn to 24) or go

Qz

ziong the walkway, keeping your eyes down (turn to
288)?

92
You have found Khomu Wych’s secret treasure hoard.
There isn’t a vast amount, but what there is looks
valuable and some of it may even be magical. At first
you ignore the treasure and concentrate on searching
ror a way out. After a while it becomes apparent that,
= there is any hope of escape, it lies with one of the

oojects here. There are two goblets on a marble slab:

one is made of silver and contains a thick black liquid;
cne other is golden and contains a deep red liquid.
Above these, hanging on the wall, are a beautifully
rashioned silver shield and a golden amulet. The shield
ras a smooth, shiny surface, and the amulet has an
engraving of a tall, powerful-looking humanoid with
=ne head of an octopus. Will you:

Take the golden amulet? Turn to 235
Take the silver shield? Turn to 275
Drink from the silver goblet? Turn to 377
Drink from the golden goblet? Turn to 393

i
Gs
en

93-94

93
The mountains are not a pleasant place to have to camp

x. but you are exhausted from the day’s walking, so
wou soon fall asleep. In the middle of the night you
ze woken by the squelching noise of a shapeless,
vellow blob heaving itself out of the faintly glowing
steam. This horrific parody of life must have been
created by the stream’s pollutants. Moved by a mixture
ot disgust and pity, you decide to put the creature out
a its misery. It is slow, so you may fire up to three
Erows at it.

XKANTHIC HORROR SKILL 6 STAMINA 14

f you win, you crawl back under your blankets and
settle down to sleep. Your dreams are haunted by the
Horror, and in the morning you wake up with a start
tick off the next day on your Adventure Sheet). If
today is Highday, turn to 50. If it is not, you follow
che stream until you come to another, smaller stream —
a tunnel tumbling down the side of a huge, isolated
mountain to the west. It has the same yellowish tint of
the main stream, which to the north of here is clear
Will you follow the runnel (turn to 318) or leap across
x and carry on north (turn to 119)?

94
What a sad piece of acting,’ he says. “You should

snow better than to try to fool me. Your earlier panic
iwas clearly genuine. And the second I doubted the
amulet was fading, you jumped on it, trying to correct
your mistake, Well, it didn’t work.’ He pauses. ‘Now
vou have no protection for your mind and whatever
95-97

physical protection you may have is a waste of time.
His eyes flash bright yellow, and the air between you
crackles with energy. Add 300 to the number of the
Brain Slayer Amulet, then turn to the paragraph with
that number.

95
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 197, If you are
Unlucky, turn to 258.

96

Instead of firing your bow, you reach quickly into
your pack and take out the large bottle of Mystern
Potion that the trader gave you. Carefully you take
aim at your opponent, then let fly. Roll two dice. lf
the toial is greater than your sKILL, the phial misses
and smashes harmlessly on the floor. If the total is less
than or equal to your skiLL, you hit your target, and
the powerful acid which was in the phial splashes all
over your opponent. Roll one die and deduct that
many points from your opponent’s stamina. Now
turn back to the paragraph you came from,

97
‘Sardath has been isolated by a terrible storm which
rages over the whole lake. What causes it I don’t
know. The only creature 1 know who can evoke such
weather is Corianthus, the legendary Storm Giant, but
the stories about him suggest that he is a friend to the
land rather than a ravager of tt.’

You suggest that somebody might be forcing him to
do it.

fe

98-99

‘I cannot believe that is so. ] am sure that Corianthus,
if he does exist, would rather die than blight such a
beautiful place as Lake Sardmere.’ He shrugs apologeti-
cally. ‘I'm sorry that I can be of no more help with this
problem,’ he says, You assure him that every clue is
useful, if only to eliminate possibilities,

If this is the second question that you have asked
Lokimur, turn to 274. If it is only the first, you may
ask another. What will it be about:

Thyra Migurn (if you know of her)? Turn to 39
Corianthus? Turn to 181
The Black Flyers? Turn to 368
The Toa-Suo? Turn to 385

98

‘You do that,’ he says. Tl even give you somewhere
comfortable to eat it.’ You ask him what he means,
and he smiles. ‘I like you, and [ think [tl keep you.’
The Dark Elf wants you to be his personal servant
You try various excuses to wriggle out of this situation
but he is insistent and, when you tum to run, several
Dark Elves leap to their feet and draw their swords.
You cannot escape

When you first look into the pool, all you can see is
your own reflection. But then it shimmers and fades,
leaving only darkness. Gradually a pair of bright
yellow eyes form on the surface and a smooth, cultured
voice appears in your head: “To whom do you wish to
speak?’ If you have a Snake Ring, add 30 to its number
IGO-IO!I

and turn immediately to that paragraph. If you do not,
whose name will you give:

Liam Astromonius of Grimmund? Turn to 126
Colrhyn of the Forest of Night? Turn to 185
Sorrel of the Forest Wood Elves? Turn to 260

Ydys Tinner, Commander of Sardath’s
Army? Turn to 327
Corianthus, the Storm Giant? Turn to 352

If you don’t want to speak to anyone, you say so; the
eyes then vanish, and you move on (turn back to 166
and make another choice).

100
The Dark Elves snap to attention. ‘Lord Chaugh,’ one
of them says, ‘we were ...’ His voice trails off. ‘How
did you get past the sunlight?’ he asks. You rack your
brains for a plausible reply but, before you get a
chance to tel] your story, he starts to gabble at you in
some unintelligible language — probably Dark EIf. You
try to answer in Allansian, but he is not convinced
‘Take the impostor,’ he shouts, You fight the Dark
Elves with great fury, bringing all your resources to
bear, but there are just too many of them. Your
adventure is over.

IOI
You walk south-west for some time, heading towards
the western edge of a long, sharp ridge. As you round
the edge of the ridge, you see a river — the Sardath,
wide and slow. There is a landing-stage here, and
many wrecked barges. One of them is just about fit for

102—103

you to sail, although it would probably sink if you
were to try loading it up, Feeling that you have
exhausted all the possibilities of these eastern ranges,
you decide to sail west. Turn to 326.

102

You walk down the torch-lit tunnel, tensely excited at
the possibility of encountering a Dark Elf in this
gloom. After a few hundred metres, you come to a
junction, with one tunnel] going up to the right and
another going down to the left. While you are standing
here, trying to decide which way to go, you hear two
sets of footsteps, one approaching from each direction.
You could run back to the Laboratory, but they might
follow you, However, there is a small, dark niche on
the opposite side of the tunnel, where even Dark Elves
may not be able to see you. If you decide to hide in
here, turn to 335. If you would prefer to stand and
face the Dark Elves, turn to 287

103
A long corridor runs from here and it has just one
exit: a closed door at the other end. When you walk
down the corridor, you are relieved to see that this
door has a handle, so you open it and walk through.
And then you stop — the room is full of Dark Elves,
and they are elite warriors, all wearing the same
type of armour as the guard. For a few seconds you
hesitate to take any action at all — this is a very
dangerous situation. One of the Dark Elves then
walks up to you and looks at you with disdain.
‘Name?’
104

‘Lord Chaugh,’ you say, ‘from the Giant's castle.’

‘Sit there,’ he says, pointing to a chair by a stone door
Wary of making the Dark Elves suspicious, you do as
you are told) The door has the word ‘’SAUCRIERE
carved on it and, as you sit there, you wonder what it
means, The Dark Elf turns to the others and murmurs
something in a strange language — probably a secret
battle language, for it doesn’t sound at all like normal
Dark EIf. Whatever he said, it must have been sarcastic,
for the others laugh. Add up the value of the rings
you have, then turn.to the paragraph with the same
number. If you have no rings with values, tum to 203.

104
You travel all day through the Freezeblood Mountains,
following the same route up a long, gently rising
valley. There is no path here, so the going is very
difficult. You can see a huge, isolated mountain at the
end of the valley, but it is impossible to tell how far
away it is; you walk for many hours, but it doesn’t
seem to get any closer. To make matters worse, the
valley floor is damp and marshy, and you can only
make any progress by leaping between clumps of
springy turf, Each mis-step threatens to break your
ankle; but you are not easily beaten, and you keep
going, ignoring the sweat which is almost freezing
against your skin. By the time night begins to fall the
mountain still doesn’t look any nearer. But everything
you have discovered indicates that this is the way you
must go, so there is no point in tuming back now.
Indeed, you may even decide to press on through the

105-107

night. If you do so, turn to 25x. If you wish to camp
for the night, you notice a small crag near by where
you can shelter and some dry rocks on which you may
sleep (turn to 286).

105

‘Excellent.’ He is obviously very pleased and hands
you a large bottle containing about half a litre of a
thick, clear liquid. ‘What I said before wasn’t quite true:
it’s not really a potion at all — at least, not a potion for
drinking. All I know about it is that it’s very dangerous,
so don’t even open the bottle, let alone pour it down
your throat, What I suggest you do is throw it at
something nasty and hope that it does some damage.’
You may use Mystery Potion X at any time when you
are allowed to fire your bow, in place of one arrow.
When you decide to use it, make a note of the number
of the paragraph you are reading at the time and then
turn to paragraph 96 to find out what happens. ‘Now,
then,’ says the trader, ‘down to business.’ Tur to 263,
and remember: you are obliged to buy at least one
potion.

106
Before the Elves have time to react, you draw your
bow and fire an arrow at Sorrel. If it hits, turn to 272.
If it misses, turn to 204.

107
You walk all night without finding any landmark to
tell you where you are. Sometimes you go up hill, at
other times down. As the night wears on, you grow

108-109

more and more tired (deduct 1 point from your
STAMINA). Eventually, the night draws to an end (tick
off the next day on your Adventure Sheet) and gradually
you are able to make out the various mountains, The
one you were heading towards last night is still a long
way off — you have wandered around so much that you
have covered Jess than half the distance you should
have done. Cursing your stupidity, you press on north-
wards, trying to make up for lost time. Turn to 357.

108

Although the slope up to the mountain pass is steep, it is
not dangerous. It is a hard slog to get to the top, but you
accomplish it more quickly than you might have ex-
pected. While you are trying to take in the incredible
grandeur of the mountains, you notice a small cave on
the eastern side of the pass and you walk cautiously
across to investigate. You can’t see anything in the cave,
but there are several tracks on the ground outside,
possibly those of Dwarfs, though it does seem as if
inexperienced hands have tried to cover them up. If you
follow the tracks into the cave, tum to 252, Otherwise,
since the mountains on either side of the pass are too
difficult for you to climb, you will have to descend again.
If you go down the north-west side of the pass, turn to
133. If you go back down the south-east side of the pass,
you eventually regain the main trail; will you now go
north-east (turn to 323) or south-west (turn to 240)?

10g
As soon as you go through the door, you are assailed
by a hypnotic, rhythmic chanting. You are high up on

TiIo—1it

a balcony in a massive circular room, so you step
closer to the edge and look down to see what it is
making the noise. The room below you is filled with
Dark EIf sorcerers wearing ornate robes and holding
twisted, black wands in the air. They are standing in
three groups of thirteen round strangely ungeometric
magical diagrams, swaying and loudly reciting their
invocations, The air above each group is heavy with
baleful power, and thick globules of blackness hang
over their heads.

If you have a Lightning Sphere, it begins to crackle, so
you take it out of your pack. As you hold it in your
hand, it glows with a bright, white light, and small
flashes of energy arc out over the sorcerers, dying
against the coagulation of black power. If you hurl the
Sphere at the Dark Elves, turn to 233. If you don’t
have a Sphere, or if you don’t want to use it, tum to

IQ

IIo
When you open the door, you suddenly realize your
terrible mistake: there are at least ten Dark Elf warriors
in here and they are still furious at being tricked by
the Eagle. Because you are human, they attack without
hesitation. You defend yourself with great fury, bring-
ing all your resources to bear, but there are just too
many of them. Your adventure is over.

Itt
Since the Ghost is a creature of the Spirit Plane,
normal weapons won't harm it. Only silver, which has
I12—114

a partial existence on the Spirit Plane, can touch it. It is
lucky that you possess such a weapon, for otherwise
you would have been powerless against the creature.

GHOST SKILL O

The Ghost doesn’t wound you in the normal way
Every time it hits you, it drains your life-force; there-
fore, instead of deducting sTAMINA, just count how
many times it hits you and keep a note for future
reference. You may attempt to run back the way you
came at any time, by turning to 150. If you destroy
the Ghost, turn to 22.’

STAMINA 8

112
You follow the walkway for some distance, keeping
your eyes down while still trying to walk as naturally
as possible. Eventually you come to a junction; will
you go left (turn to 193) or carry straight on (tum to

358)?

113

You throw the bone into the middle of the road where
the two creatures can reach it, They each grab an end
and shake their heads fiercely. For a few moments they
growl and tug, but then the bone snaps in two, and
they retire to their respective roadsides to enjoy their
feast. Somewhat hesitantly you walk between them,
increasing your pace once you are past, Turn to 399.

114
Suddenly you feel something crawling up your leg: it
is the Mould. It doesn’t seem to be hurting you, but it

II§

is clear that its intentions are not good. If you have
the Mystery Potion and wish to use it, add 220 to its
number and turn to the paragraph with that number.
Otherwise, you must try to scrape the Mould off your
body before it covers you completely.

VAMPYRIC SLIME MOULD SKILL 9

Since the Mould is not a single creature but a colony
of microscopic beings bound together and driven by
an evil sentience, you cannot do it any real harm.
Equally, it can do you no harm. Instead, this combat
represents the race to find out whether you can fend it
off before it covers your body; therefore do not
deduct any sTAMINA points. If the Mould wins two
Attack Rounds in a row, turn to 83. If you win two
Attack Rounds in a row, turn to 134

115
The morning arrives {regain 1 STAMINA point and tick
off the next day on your Adventure Sheet) and you
climb out from under your thick, frost-covered blan-
kets, the chill morning air reviving you and making
you eager to go on. You shoulder your pack and set
off. As the morning wears on, the river becomes more
and more choked with reeds, for you are entering
Slykk territory. You keep your eyes open for any sign
of the slimy frog-people, but you see nothing for over
an hour. Then, without warning, two Slykk leap up
out of the reeds and on to the bank. One of them
shouts at you in his croaking speech and brandishes a
spear. He gestures with it northwards, seeming almost
to point. He croaks again, more threateningly. If you

Po eee

116

comply with the gesture and head north into the
Forest, they will let you go (turn to 267). If you stand
your ground, they will begin to advance on you, Will
you make some sign of friendship and say who you
are (turn to r2§), draw your bow and loose an arrow
at one of them (turn to 88), or draw your sword and
wait for them to reach you (turn to 207)?

116
As you get deeper into the mountain, the bright light
of day is replaced by an eerie yellow glow from the
stream, making the stalactites cast strange shadows on
the ceiling. Sometimes they even look as if they are
moving. After you have been walking for about half
an hour, you become convinced that some of the
stalactites really are moving. You look up, but it is too
late — they are already raining down on you. You run.
Roll one die to find out how many hit you, and deduct
2 STAMINA points for each hit

ff you survive, you reach the end of the Mimic
Stalactites’ territory and find yourself at a junction
where the stream splits off to the right and the path
heads left. The tunnel where the stream goes is impass-
able, so you follow the path, Gradually the tunnel
levels out, then turns to begin a gentle descent. You
come to a couple of turnings to the left, but there are
many alien voices echoing from these tunnels so you
avoid them and carry straight on. The tunnel twists
and turns, going downwards for a few hundred metres,
until you reach a heavy stone door with a huge iron
knocker in the centre. If Istu is with you, turn to 256.
If you are alone, turn to 374

117-119

117
You start to speak, but the figure interrupts. ‘How
dare you speak to Thyra Migurn without kneeling
before her!’ A glowing light appears in the cowl, then
a burst of lightning shoots out, hitting you in the chest.
Roll one die and deduct that many points from your
STAMINA. If you survive this blast, will you now kneel
before Thyra (turn to 315), or do you refuse (turn to

350)%

118

Somehow Morn manages to get you into a position
where you are out of balance. With this advantage, he
twists, trying to tum you on to your stomach and get
you in a strangle hold. You fight to stop him. Roll two
dice to determine the Attack Strength for both yourself
and the impostor (skILt 7). If the result is a draw or if
you win the Attack Round, you manage to twist
yourself out of Morn’s grasp, thwarting his efforts to
hold you — return to 212 and continue the fight. If you
lose the Attack Round, turn to 25.

119

You follow the stream for some distance until you see
a beautiful blue-green Jake at its head, nestling within
a natural amphitheatre formed by the surrounding
cliffs. Suddenly you are knocked to the ground by a
massive, white-furred body. You strike out, but several
more of the Hobgoblin-like humanoids join the attack.
Your adventure is over.

eee
1Z0~-1 22

120
The Mirror Demon comes to a halt and looks in the
direction of your Veiled Guardian; being a Demon
herself, she can see him. ‘Istu,’ she says, ‘free yourself
from the bondage of this human and side with me.
After all, we are both Demons; this pathetic creature is
but a mortal.’

Istu laughs. “You cannot tempt me, Lix Tetrax. You
must know that my service to this human is the final
stage of my release from the Ivory Cube. Once my
earthly form has been destroyed in honest service, my
exile will be over.’ He leaps at her, talons flashing.

MIRROR DEMON SKILL 8

You decide to stand well back and await the outcome.
Play out the battle between Lix Tetrax and Istu,
remembering to deduct points from Istu’s sTAMINA
since he is in direct combat. If Istu wins, turn to 7o. If
the Mirror Demon wins, you will have to finish her
off. If she wins an Attack Round against you, turn
immediately to 6. If you destroy her, turn to 7o.

STAMINA 10

I2I
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 173. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 246.

122
You walk for many hours, following the stream up an
ever-steepening valley. There is no trail here and the
ground is very rocky, so your progress is slow and
tiring. Eventually night falls, but you still haven't

123

found the source of this strangely polluted water. It is
cold and windy in this valley, but there seems to be a
good shelter under some fallen boulders by the stream.
Will you stop here and make camp for the night (tum
to 93) or press on north (turn to 251)?

123

Just as you are leaving the camp, a young Dark EIf,
breathless from running, comes up to you. “Thank the
Whisperer I have found you, Lord Chaugh. Duke Pilea
wants you to return to the castle immediately.’ Several
other Dark Elves have overheard him, so you have no
choice but to go along with this order. As you walk
away from the slavers’ camp, you try to act as naturally
‘Dark Elven’ as you can, praying that you won't say
the wrong thing. However, if you return to the castle,
you are bound to give yourself away sooner or later,
so you have got to get rid of this Dark Elf. Once you
are out of sight of the camp, you attack him.

YOUNG DARK ELF SKILL § STAMINA 4

[F you win, you hide his body, then carry on down the
track. If you weren’t forced to kill them on your way
in, the Obligaths just let you past — they are there to
keep the wrong people out, not to keep anyone in.
When you get back to the main track, you turn right,
heading further into the city. Turn to 237.

124-125

124

The architecture is more than wild — it is completely
illogical! The elements of the lair are as you might
expect; walkways, stairs: and archways; but the way
they are put together is insane; it seems to defy all the
laws of nature. Perhaps what you see is not the reality
of the place but the only way in which your logical
mind can interpret it, You stand there for a moment,
entranced by its strangeness, feeling yourself becoming
lost, your mind chasing through endless paths of
unreason, But your will is strong and you are able to
draw yourself away at last. Convinced that it would
be too dangerous to look again, you decide to rely on
what you have seen already to guide you through this
alien world, so you walk tentatively along the walk-
way, keeping your eyes on the path just in front of
you, If is unnerving not knowing where you are
going, but you force yourself to walk on. Eventually
the walkway meets another. Will you go left (tum to
3§8) or right (tum to 112)?

125
You raise your hands to show that you are not hostile.
The Slykk stop and look at you enquiringly, so you
shout your name and say that you are from Grimmund.
The Slykk look at each other and make croaking
sounds and strange facial gestures. Then, without warn-
ing, they shout, ‘Arrark!’ a noise which is something
more than a croak but not quite a word. Then they
charge at you again. If you flee northwards they will
stop and let you go (tum to 267). If you stand your
ground, they will continue charging, the smaller, faster
126-128

one pulling away from the other. Will you draw your
bow and loose an arrow at one of them (turn to 138)
or draw your sword and wait for them to reach you
(turn to 207)?

126
If you have your Council Ring and a Four-Leaf Clover,
turn to 15x. If you have only the Clover, turn to 227.
If you have neither, turn to 392.

127

But there is still cause for hope: a small sailing boat
struggling desperately against the weather. Its lone
sailor, dashing frantically from sail to tiller and back
again, may not make it. You look around for a means
to aid him, but the only thing you find that will
actually float is a small rowing boat, moored to the
wrecked bridge. Will you row out to help the sailor
(turn to 242) or wait and hope that he makes it on his
own (turn to 313)?

128

As soon as you open the door, you are stopped dead
by the sight that greets your eyes. There are scores of
Dwarfs in here, shackled to the walls and floor with
manacles and chains, and to each other with neck-
bands and steel rods. When they see you, many of
them widen their eyes in delight but keep their mouths
firmly closed. You go to the one nearest you, quickly
unhook the Iron Keys from your belt and unlock him.
Now that he is freed, the Dwarf grabs the keys from
you and begins to release the others.

E29-130

‘Go back into the corridor and through the door
opposite,’ he hisses at you over his shoulder. ‘I presume
you are well enough armed to fight the Sorcerer. We'll
go to the dormitory on the left and take out the
acolytes,’ He looks at some of the others. ‘Revenge at
last!’ he shouts, and the Dwarfs let out a cheer,
unconcerned at the noise they are making. Following
the Dwarf’s instructions, you return to the corridor
and go straight through the door opposite. Turn to
Tog.

129

You walk towards the cage but are repulsed by some
great power. No matter what you do, you cannot get
close to the Giant. Perhaps if you were able to speak
to him, he could tell you what to do. You call to him,
but he shows no sign of hearing you. Whatever is
binding the Giant, it has cut him off from the outside
world completely, and there is no way you can get to
him so, reluctantly, you give up. If you decide to leave
the oval building, turn to 29. If you want to stay and
investigate further, will you edge round the Giant to
the left (turn to 238) or to the right (turn to 337)?

130
You walk on down the road until you come to the last
outpost of the village — the harbour, where all the
trading boats are kept. It has a look of dereliction
about it: all the sails are furled, and the food in the
warehouses is beginning to rot. This scene drives
home to you the importance of your mission and the
urgency with which it must be completed. There is not

OS e—s—‘“‘—i—i<—i—itstststststststi‘(‘ia eeeeesesi—(i‘“‘<‘<‘its
141-132

much for you to go on yet, but nevertheless you must
now decide how you will proceed, Will you travel
north-east on the Grimway (turn to §7), take your
boat and sail up the river (turn to 269), or cross the
river and head north-west through the forest (turn to

325)?

131
In the middle of the battle, just when the Ghost is
beginning to weaken, you make a dash for the secret
door in the sarcophagus. The Ghost is still strong
enough to keep up its defence, however. A ghostly
arm flails out and delivers a life-draining hit. Add 1 to
the number of times the Ghost has hit you, then return
to 111 to continue the battle.

132
You draw your sword and lean over the stern of the
boat. A few deft strokes destroy the Bloodweed, and
the rudder is freed. You sail on. However, since Blood-
weed is dangerous only until it becomes gorged,
killing it was unnecessary — this one had already had
its fill of your blood, which you should have realized
from its dull-red colour. As a result of this gratuitous
act the natural luck that follows you through the
Forest ebbs a little (lose 1 Luck point). An hour or so
later, you spot another pair of amphibian eyes looking
at you. This time, instead of looking back at them
directly, you keep on looking forward but watch the
eyes at the edge of your field of vision, Not realizing
that you have seen it, the creature stays in full view.
Will you quickly grab your bow and shoot an arrow

133-134

at it (turn to go), or just wait to see what it does (tum
to 294)?

133

Because of the shape of the north-west descent, you
don’t see the bottom until you have made your way
down for some distance. The beautiful lake and the
sheer cliffs to the north quite soon become visible —
but you don’t see the huge army of white, thickly
furred humanoids until! it is too late. These are Toa-
Suo: resembling overgrown Hobgoblins, they have
two tusk-like lower teeth protruding from their mouths.
They see you straight away and a group breaks off to
attack you. You mun, but they are in their element and
catch up with you easily. Your adventure ends here

134
You are much quicker than the Mould and so are able
to drive it from your body. The relief is only tempo-
rary, however, for it slimes back across the ground
towards you, ready to resume its attack. Unfortunately,
it is not alone now — the Zombie has come to its aid.
There is no way that you'll be able to fend off the
Mould and fight the Zombie, so you run north-west
(since the Zombie is blocking the other way), slowing
down to a walk when the creatures are out of sight.
Tum to 1§,

ee ee
135-136

135
The sight that meets you as you look out across the

immense cavern fills you with dismay: the Dark Elves
have nearly finished building the small city which
will be the base for their evil machinations. Beneath
you and to your left it is complete; further out, Dark
Elf artisans are stil] building their strange houses
and decorating them with hideous gargoyles and bas-
reliefs. Over to the far right, you are saddened to see
scores of Dwarf slaves quarrying the rock from the
cavern wall and ferrying it to the artisans in huge
carts. Behind you, at the back of the balcony, is an
archway, which you may go through into the short
tunnel beyond (turn to 281).

All your other options lead further into the city. If you
have a pair of Pegasus Wings, the most direct route is
by flying (tum to 26). If you do not, you will have to
walk. On each side of the balcony a stairway leads
downwards. Will you go down the left stairway to a
walkway some distance above the floor of the cavern
(turn to 160) or down the right stairway, which goes
all the way to the bottom (tum to 389)?

136
The door reverberates with a dull thud but does not
give; the stone is not even chipped. Will you:

Search for an opening mechanism? Turn to 75
Try saying a password? Turn to 2
Hit the door again? Tum to 321

Give up? Turn to 349
137-138

137
Sailing round the wrecked bridge is easier than you

thought, and you are soon sailing on up the river. The
increasing darkness of the Forest bears out your theory
that something evil is taking place, that the coldness
you feel is not just the result of the weather. Even the
river is beginning to look abnormal. Several times you
see a pair of large amphibian eyes pop up in the reeds,
only to disappear just as quickly. Many hours pass,
and the Forest's darkness turns into the chill blackness
of night. There is a small clearing on the east bank, so
you land the boat and set up camp. As you sit, eating
cold rations and gazing over the trees on the west
bank, you notice two black shapes silhouetted against
the starry sky. They are some distance to the west,
flying southwards; after a while, they land. If you
decide to sail over to the west bank and track the
creatures into the Forest, turn to 168. Otherwise (write
the number 178 in a circle on your Adventure Sheet),
will you settle straight down to sleep (turn to 19) or
make a fire first (turn to 188)?

138
Since the First Slykk is a lot closer than the other, you
fire at him.

First SLYKK SKILL 8 STAMINA 2

If you hit him, turn to 297. If you miss him, he is too
close for a second shot, so you quickly sling your bow
over your shoulder and draw your sword (tum to
207).

ae

139-141

139

Holding your sword up to his face, you shout at him

chat you are the one who deserves the most respect.
You say that you are a warrior, risking your life for
=he spread of Dark EIf civilization. He begins to tremble
and drops his bundle. A small, beautifully carved
statue of a Gargoyle’s head falls out of the sackcloth.
We both noble, in own ways,’ he says, obviously
concerned by your superior strength, but still trying to
salvage some honour. ‘No need violence,’ he says.
Take Gargoyle,’ You sneer, but you pick up the figure
and march off down the main road. ‘Many ways of
>ower,’ he shouts after you. ‘See when you need noble
iving place.’ You ignore his taunts and carry on. Turn

0 354

140
Roll two dice. If the total is less than or equal to your
skiLL, turn to 34. If the total is greater than your
SKILL, turn to g§.

14
The Eagle carries you up the mountain at a pace so
swift that the icy air rushes past your face and chills
your skin. You begin to shiver; but nevertheless you
are glad that you no longer have to make the effort of
climbing — especially when you see the sheer walls of
the castle, seemingly carved out of the actual rock of
the mountain. After the Eagle has landed on the roof
and you are safely on firm ground once more, it starts
scraping at the stone with its talons, screeching all the
while, When you take a closer look, you see that there
142

is « huge, stone trapdoor here, and you can hear
shouts coming from beneath it. “Scatter, you evil
creature, Come back and tempt us in the darkness.
Then you will receive the same treatment as your
master’ Of course, you think, these creatures of the
night cannot bear direct sunlight. Suddenly the trap-
door begins to slide open, and you jump off it. The
movernents and the noises of the Eagle must have
been a magic code, There are many screarns from
beneath you — apparently caused by the sunlight
pouring in through the aperture, Will you go to the
edge and ook over (tum to 245) or wait until the
noise dies down (turn to 365)?

142

You follow the river steadily south until night falls.
You are not far from Sardath now, so you press on.
When you are about half way round the eastern edge
of the Freezeblood Wall, you hear a strange noise like

142

« thousand giant-birds flying overhead, Quickly, you
dive behind a large boulder and peer out to see 3
horde of dark shapes silhouetted against the night sky.
it is an army of Black Flyers, fying towards Sardath.
Relieved that you are hidden from their view, you
decide to huddle into the side of the boulder and get

what sleep you can.

You sleep: fitfully all night and wake in the morning
hardly refreshed at all (tick off the next day on your
Adoenture Sheet). If today ts Mighday, hun to 50. The
sky is only just beginning to lighten into the pale blue
of the pre-dawn when you see the army of Black
Flyers leaving Sardath and flying north over the Freezt>
blood Wall. Will you follow them (turn to t6) or
continue south to the Fangthane Road and follow it
into Sardath (turn to 293)?

<
ee

re it
-

AG

~

=
~~,
,

143-144

143

‘That, of course, is your privilege — though I think you
are being unwise.’ You follow Liam into the spell
chamber. In the centre of the room stands an enormous
crystal mirror, shrouded in coloured mists. Liam picks
up a silver sceptre from its stand. ‘All that remains is
for me to perform the Sign of Summoning.’ He raps on
the crystal three times.

Without waming, a vision appears. It is a Suma, a
messenger from the gods and answerer of desperate
prayers. His voice echoes round the spell chamber, as
if the room were too tiny to contain it. ‘Seek out the
tomb of Khornu Wych in the Forest of Night Look
for the Flyers and remember what you have seen here
today. Without the amulet you are lost.’ The mists
swirl around, enveloping the mirror. When they sub-
side, the Suma has gone.

‘Well, says Liam, ‘you have survived. I have no idea
what the Suma’s advice means, but I’m sure that all
will become clear in the fullness of time.’ It is now
time to leave; Liam comes to the door to wish you
luck and watches as you walk down the main road.
Tur to 399.

144
You apologize, mumbling that you can’t help them
with their ritual because you have urgent business
with the diners at the other side of the room. Test your
Luck. If you are Unlucky, they don’t believe you and
draw long, curved daggers. When they move towards
you, eyes burning with bloodlust, you realize that
145-147

fighting them would be futile and decide to do what
they ask (turn to 268). If you are Lucky, the Dark
Elves are inclined to believe you; however, they are
not totally convinced and watch closely as you walk
towards the diners (turn to 65),

145

The ground to the north-west rises gradually for
several kilometres until it arrives at the foot of an
immense mountain. However, before you reach the
mountain, you are confronted by a path; in one direc-
tion it goes north-east towards the spire-shaped moun-
tain and in the other it goes south-west. Will you now
go north-east (turn to 323) or south-west {turn to 59)?

146

You continue along the walkway until you reach a
narrow tunnel in the cavern wall. You are just about to
go through it when you realize that this is the way
you came in. You turn and glance across the cavern,
once again catching a terrifying glimpse of that wild
architecture, You have no choice but to turn around
and try to complete your mission. Will you force
yourself to look at the city before you go {turn to 24)
or walk back across the walkway, keeping your eyes
down (turn to 288)?

147
The Slykk launch a sudden volley of spears. Roll one
die to find out how many strike you, and deduct 2
STAMINA points for each hit, If you survive, you try
desperately to sail away from the line of fire, but

148

another group of the frog creatures rise up alongside
the boat and begin to rock it. There are too many to
fight, so you must simply try to keep the boat afloat.
Roll two dice. If the total is greater than your SKILL,
you are upended into the icy water. Fighting in their
own environment, the Slykk will have no trouble in
defeating you, putting an end to your quest. If the
total is less than or equal to your sKILL, you manage
to keep the boat upright until you break out into
clearer water and are able to let the boat run. The
Slykk could probably keep up with you if they wanted
to, but when they see that you are on the retreat they
let you go. Turn to 397.

148

‘Come out, you puny creature,’ the Black Mammoth
bellows, to your great surprise! It is looking straight at
you. I can see you, hiding beneath that heather. |
haven't yet killed in this form, and I would like my
first blood to come from a fair fight.’ You remain
completely still — it may be bluffing — but then it takes
a step towards you. I don’t think you would enjoy
being trampled to death,’ it says. Whether it’s bluffing
or not, you don’t want to end your adventure by
being crushed to death, so you leap out into the road
and draw your sword.

BLACK MAMMOTH SKILL 12

Since this is such a fearsome adversary, you may, at
any time, collapse on to the ground and pretend to be
dead (turn to 84). If you kill the monster, you may
resume your journey towards Sardath (turn to 165).

STAMINA 15
149-151

149

The fungi in this tunnel are pale green, with green
tops and small spikes round their bases. They look
fairly harmless, so you set off down the tunnel quite
confidently. Once you have gone several metres into
the tunnel, however, many of the Green Cap start
dropping spores from their undersides. Even though
most of them fall on the walls and the floor, some of
the spores waft towards your face. Roll two dice. If
the total is less than or equal to your sxiLL, turn to 18.
If the total is greater than your sKILL, turn to 189

150
You turn away from the Ghost and run back to the
door. You try the Sign of Summoning, but the door
remains shut. From behind you, you hear the ghostly
voice of Khomu Wych: ‘You do not think I would leE
you escape that easily, do you?’ The Ghost floats out
of its sarcophagus and begins to move towards you.
Surely there must be some escape... surely... sur...

151
As soon as you make contact, Liam seems to know
what is happening. ‘Tt is truly fortuitous that you have
contacted me,’ he says. ‘Since you left, I have been
researching the Brain Slayer Amulet showri me by the
Suma. it was created by an ancient seer called Khornu
Wych ...’ He rambles on for some time about the
history of this amulet but eventually says; ‘It has a
symbol carved on the back. At the moment, this
means that it will absorb any mental attacks made on
the wearer. However, if two X’s are scratched in front

152

of the existing symbol, the amulet will not only
absorb any attack made on the wearer's mind but will
reflect it back on the attacker. I hope this proves
useful Goodbye and good luck’ Before you get a
chance to say anything, the image fades.

If you already have a Brain Slayer Amulet, you scratch
the new symbol on it as instructed. If you do not, you
should make a note of what to do for future reference.
You then look back into the poo! ‘To whom do you
wish to speak?’ asks the smooth, cultured voice. Turn
back to gg and make another choice.

1§2
Even though you find nothing on the Dark EIf’s body,
you do discover a number of footprints near by. You
follow them eastwards for a short distance until you
come to an area containing several other tracks, all
leading north-west up a long valley. These prints were
made over a week ago, and by large numbers — a Dark
Elf army, perhaps. The presence of such a force, no
matter how long ago, is a vital clue to your mission,
so you waste no time in following it up. Turn to 104.

T53—155

1§3

You raise your head and force yourself to gaze upon
the wild architecture of the Dark EIf lair. It makes your
mind reel and you begin to lose all sense of who and
where you are. Test your Luck. If you are Unlucky, you
feel an intense dizziness and start staggering from one
side of the walkway to the other. Unable to prevent it,
you stumble and fall over the side — your adventure is
over. If you are Lucky, you recover at the last moment
and find yourself gazing into what looks like an
infinite abyss. If this is the first time you have experi-
enced this effect, you will be disorientated for some
days (lose 1 SKILL point). If you've suffered from this
before, the symptoms are not worsened. Now tum
back to the paragraph you came from and continue
your adventure,

154
But there is stil] cause for hope — a small sailing boat is
struggling desperately against the weather Its lone
sailor clings single-mindedly to the tiller but lets the
sails flap wildly in the wind. You look around for a
way to help, but the only thing you can find that will
actually float is a small rowing boat, moored to the
wrecked bridge. Will you row out and help the sailor
(turn to 41) or wait and hope that he makes it on his
own (tum to 313)?

155
Your sword slashes into Morn’s side, sending him

staggering backwards. You advance on him, but now,
instead of fighting back, he makes a run for the Recess

156

Chamber window, If you let him escape, turn to 271,
If you dive after him in an attempt to bring him to the
ground, turn to 340. If you swipe at him with your
sword, you will easily hit him since he is not defending
himself — deduct 2 points from his STAMINA (you may
use your LUCK to try to increase this). If this hit kills
him, turn to 249. If it doesn’t, he will escape (turn to

271).

156

As you charge towards the Spider, it ejects a thin stream
of sticky silk in your direction. You are closer than it
would ideally like, so the thread arcs over your head,
missing you completely. This is a Giant Spitting Spider,
not one of the more ferocious hunting varieties, so,
before you can reach it, it turns and scuttles off into the
trees. You walk back to your camp, feeling good about
resolving this encounter so well (regain 1 Luck point).
You lie down, wrap your blankets around you, and
settle back down to sleep. Turn to the paragraph whose
number you wrote in a circle on your Adventure Sheet.

157-158

157

You fit the ivory squares together into a cube so that
all the carved lines are aligned. As you turn it round in
your hands, you see that the shapes form a word:
ISTU, ‘Istu,’ you say out loud. You feel a great power
flow through you {regain 1 LUCK point) and by your
side appears an immense demon with fiery eyes and
great talons that are as potent as the finest silver
sword. 1 am Istu, the Twelfth and Last of the Veiled
Guardians, I am invisible to all except you and other
Demons. I will remain with you and fight by your side
until I am destroyed: I will fight any adversary that |
can rend with these claws — unless you command me
otherwise.’ This means that Istu fights only when you
yourself are actually in hand-to-hand combat; he does
not fight if you are still firing your bow, for example.
Since he is invisible, your opponents will still attack
you, so you will take all the damage from the fight,
However, even though Istu does not take any damage
directly, he does lose 3 stamina points for each fight
he takes part in and he cannot be healed; once his
wordly form is killed, he will be dispelled back to his
own magical plane.

VEILED GUARDIAN SKILL 12
Now turn back to the paragraph you came from.

STAMINA 15

158
Roxsir leads you through many tunnels and out on toa
ledge above a north-facing cliff. You lean over the
parapet and see the huge army of Toa-Suo. You can also
see another ledge below you, where many Dwarfs are

T$9

throwing boulders down as the Toa-Suo climb up. Some
of the enemy are able to dodge the boulders and get up
to the ledge, but the axe warriors are there to fend them
off. You step back from the edge and prepare to join the
fight. There are plenty of arrows but only a few archers;
with your superior skill, you are more than welcome. If
you don’t have your own bow, the Dwarfs give you
one. It is smaller than your own and of inferior
craftsmanship (deduct z sKILL point when you use it).
With it, you fare little better than any of the others. If
you do have your own bow, you have an excellent day,
slaying many Toa-Suo {regain 1 Luck point). As the
day draws to an end, the Toa-Suo retreat. Hellura, the
leader of the Dwarven archers, tells you to refill your
quiver and follow her back into the tunnels. Turn to 322.

159

You mention something that only you and he know,
some secret from your time together. Instead of the
expected flicker of recognition, he gives you a blank
look, followed by one of grim determination.

‘Shoot,’ he orders, and four arrows fly from the Elves.
Test your Luck. If you are Unlucky, at least one of the
arrows pierces your heart, killing you instantly. If you
are Lucky, the Elves have some doubt about Sorrel’s
verdict conceming your identity; they cannot disobey
an order, but they can aim their shots at less vulnerable
parts of your body (roll one die and lose that many
STAMINA points). If you survive, will you now nin
(turn to 204) or quickly draw your bow and shoot
Sorrel (turn to 106)?

160-162

160

This stairway is wider and less unnerving to walk on
than those in the bottomless cavern, especially since
you can see where you are going. As you descend, the
stairway spirals to the right, ending at the walkway
you saw below you when you were on the balcony.
Will you turn left and head further into the city (tum
to 369) or turn right and walk towards an archway in
the wall of the cavern (turn to 228)?

161
‘And how will you achieve that?’ he asks.

Will you just smile and say nothing (turn to 366) or
tell him that you learned the secret of the amulet’s
destruction in Khomu’s tomb (tum to 270)?

162

Before you reach the cavern wall and the Dwarf slaves
who are quarrying there, you arrive at a junction
where a narrow path leads off to your right. It must
finish up somewhere in the city, but you can see
neither where it ends nor any turnings off it. There are
high fences along its sides — so presumably it is a
pathway for slaves, the fence being there to prevent
them straying into the city. Will you leave the main
road and go down this path (turn to 280) or carry
straight on (turn to 237)?

t

163-165

163
Normal weapons cannot touch this creature, let alone
destroy it. Without a silver weapon you have no
hope but to try to mun back the way you came. Turn
to 1§0.

164

This room is a huge dormitory, equipped with some
forty four-poster beds. Most of them have their cur-
tains drawn back, but ten or so at the back of the
room have their curtains drawn closed, and you can
hear a gentle snoring. If you have a Lightning
Sphere, it begins to crackle, so you take it out of
your pack As you hold it in your hand, it glows
with a bright, white light, and small flashes of energy
arc across to some of the statues standing between
the beds. Carved in a style similar to the paintings
in the corridor, they are of other Dark Elf sorcerers,
so there is no doubting what the Sphere desires. If
you hurl it at the sleeping Dark Elves, turn to 26r.

lf you don’t have a Lightning Sphere, or if you don't
want to use it, you decide that there are too many
Dark Elves here to risk a fight, so you tiptoe out of
the room and go back along the corridor to the two
doors. Will you now go through the one on your left
‘turn to 109) or the one on your right (turn to 128)?

165
You have already been travelling all day, so you grow
quite weary as you trudge along the Fangthane Road
m the darkness (deduct 1 point from your sTAMINA).
lf you don’t collapse on the road and expire from
166

exhaustion, you eventually make it to Gwinir’s Bridge
By this time the sky is just starting to lighten, although
the sun won't rise yet for an hour or two (tick off the
next day on your Adventure Sheet). Nevertheless there
is enough light for you to make out a deep, unnatural
darkness clinging to the sky above Sardath, As you
cross the bridge, you see a small, black cloud emerge
from the gloom. When it rises above the Freezeblood
Wall and begins to fly northwards, you realize that it
is an army of Black Flyers. Will you follow them into
the Freezeblood Mountains (turn to 16) or carry on
into Sardath (turn td 293)?

166

As soon as you insert the Brass Key in the lock, the
door opens on its own. When you remove your key
and step in, the door closes behind you. In front of
you are masses of bookshelves and books beyond
number. Although this room is vast, there are only
two doors: one marked ‘Laboratory’ and the other
‘Observatory’, Just inside the Library, there is a massive
desk, over three metres high, with a chair to match. If
you climb up and stand on the huge chair in front of
the desk, you are able to reach what is there; you find
a book, a sheet of paper and a shallow dish containing
mercury. Will you look at the book (turn to 279), read
what is written on the sheet of paper (tum to 37§), or
look at the dish of mercury (turn to 99)?

If you go through the Laboratory door, turn to 42. If
you go through the Observatory door, you find that
the Eagle has flown away, but the trapdoor is still

167

open and sunlight is streaming through. Will you go
through the door on your nght into the Games Room
(turn to 78), or through the unmarked door on your
left (turn to 120)?

167

When the astrologer finally emerges, it is with a look
of puzzlement on his face, Eagerly you ask him what
happened, ‘I was visited by a Suma, a messenger from
the gods. He had a message for you,’ He frowns in
concentration. “You are to look for the tomb of Khornu
Wych in the Forest of Night. You must look for the
flyers. Without the amulet, you are lost.’ You look at
him questioningly, ‘I’m afraid I have no idea what the
Suma’s advice means, but I’m sure it will become clear
in the fullness of time.’ He smiles. ‘Anyway, it’s time
you were off. At the door Liam wishes you luck and
waves as you walk down the main road. Turn to 390.

168-169

168

You walk through the Forest for several hours, trying
<0 follow a straight line to where you saw the creatures
land, It is difficult to find your way in the dark
without getting caught in a Giant Spider web, but you
are used to the Forest and so make unfaltering
progress, Some time in the middle of the night, when
you estimate that you must be getting near, you hear
a sound: two voices, talking in a language you have
never heard before. You creep up close and hide
Dehind a stand of young trees, In the darkness it is
difficult to be sure but they seem to be the same sort
of creature as the impostor who tried to kill you in
Grimmund. Beside them is a small mound, in which is
set a huge, stone door, covered with lichen. They are
ying to open it, but are not having much success.
Will you try a surprise attack on them with bow or
sword (turn to 30) or wait to see what will happen
tum to 241)?

169

The Dark EIf stops and glares at you in amazement,
acting as if he were royalty and you were a beggar
He demands something of you in Dark Elf, even
though you cannot tell what he is saying, his scornful
cone upsets your natural sense of honour and fairness,
your temper snaps. You are far too close to use your
20w, so you draw your sword and unleash your indig-
nation.

OARK ELF NOBLE SKILL 7 STAMINA 5
if you win, you quickly search the body, then throw it
IJO-171

over the right-hand side of the stairway. There is a
dark area by the cavern wall here, where he should
remain undiscovered for some time. You look around
furtively, but it appears that no one saw you. The only
thing you found on the Dark EIf, apart from his sword,
was a small belt pouch containing three diamonds and
a key with an ornate ‘S’ engraved on it. You put these
articles in your pack, then carry on down the stairway
to a rough track. You follow this for about fifty metres
until it comes to a junction that turns right. Will you
carry on along the track (tum to 237) or turn right and
head towards what’ looks like a military camp (tum to
362)?

170
Now that the Ghost has moved out of its sarcophagus,
you will be able to get through the secret door. As the
Ghost approaches, you set off; you swerve past it, leap
into the sarcophagus and push at the door. It opens
and you step through into the small chamber
beyond. Suddenly there is a rumbling sound and the
ceiling begins to cave in. Luckily it is only in the area
of the doorway — opening it must have weakened the
age-old constnuction. However, when you look around,
you realize that you have not been as lucky as you
thought, for there is no other exit from this chamber!
If you have been hit by the Ghost, turn to 44.
Otherwise, turn to 92.

I7I
As you walk along the riverbank, you notice that the
river is becoming more and more clogged with weeds

172

and that the forest insects are increasingly troublesome.
However, you do find a small patch of Haemwort,
which is excellent for staunching the flow of blood
‘add 1 to your Herbs). As evening approaches, you
arrive at the second rope-bridge. You shrug off your
pack and set up a camp on the edge of the trail near
the bridge. This site is often used by traders, and even
though the Forest is becoming darker it still seems
safe. You settle down to sleep,

The morning arrives (tick off the next day on your
Adventure Sheet} and you shoulder your pack and
prepare to go on. Will you continue to follow the
river {tum to 20) or walk north-east along the trail
(turn to 9)?

172
You walk over to the newcomer and ask the guards to
wait a moment. Affecting total confidence, you con-
front the Dwarf with your knowledge that he is an
impostor. Then you stand, impassive, waiting to see
what his reaction will be. Without waming he grabs a
dagger from inside his tunic. Test your Luck. If you are
Unlucky, you don’t see the dagger in time, and the
assassin ends your adventure right here. If you are
Lucky, you do see the dagger — but only in time to
deflect it to a less vulnerable part of your body
(deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA). If you survive
this, the other guards leap on the impostor while you
stagger away to tend your wound.

Once it is all over, one of the Dwarfs approaches you.
173-174

‘We owe you a great debt, adventurer, in addition to
what you have already done.’ You tell him that you
fight on behalf of all the good people of the Forest
and the mountains. ‘Well said. | am sure that you will
become known as a great Dwarf-friend, even as far as
Fangthane — if we survive.’ For a while you are all
quiet as you watch the black sky slowly turn to the
pale blue of the pre-dawn (tick off the next day on
your Adventure Sheet) If today is Highday, turn to 50.
If it is not, turn to 4,

173

The Sorcerer begins to laugh. ‘And now it doesn’t
matter what clever defences you came armed with, for
your principal weapon is losing its power,’ He shakes
his head in disbelief. ‘And the cruellest joke is that this
turn of events suits my purpose perfectly. I don’t want
the amulet for protection myself — I hardly need it
No; I want to learn its secrets and to turn them, so
that I may break Corianthus’s defences once and for
all. Once the amulet is dead, that job will be child's
play.” He looks at you with a disdainful glare. ‘And
now I will wipe your mind blank and take what is
mine.’ His eyes flash bright yellow, and the air between
you crackles with energy. Add 300 to the number of
the Brain Slayer Amulet and tur to the paragraph
with that number.

174
Just before your fingers close round the creeper, you
realize that it is not a normal plant at all, but Strangle
Weed: it will crush the life out of you if any of its

175

tendrils get a hold. Without wasting a second, you
leap out of the tree and on to the ground, Roll two
dice. If the total is less than or equal to your sxIut,
you have landed without mishap. If the total is greater
than your sxiLt, then you fall badly (deduct 2 points
‘Tom your STAMINA). Now that you know what to
avoid, you are easily able to find a tree with non-
carnivorous creepers, and you swing safely across the
river,

As you walk along the path, the trees loom ominously
overhead, Many of the Giant Spider webs have been
woven much closer than usual — some threads are
even stretched across the trail. Fortunately the Spiders
in this area are trappers, not hunters, so you will be
safe as long as you don’t get caught in one of their
webs. You walk for many hours, wondering how the
Elves could have let the path get so overgrown. As
the sun is beginning to set, you approach the place
where some of your questions may be answered: the
fork in the road where the EIf village is hidden among
the trees. Turn to 332.

175
After walking northwards for several hours, you reach
a stream descending from the mountains. It is a raging
torrent of water with a strange, yellowish tint; it must
be a tributary of the Sardath, so it may be what is
polluting the Forest. You follow it north up an ever-
steepening valley. There is no trai] here and the
ground is very rocky, so your progress is slow and
tiring. Eventually night falls. It is cold and windy in
176

this valley, but there seems to be a good shelter under
some fallen boulders by the stream, Will you stop here
and make camp for the night (turn to 93) or press on
north (turn to 251)?

176

The Dark EIf snatches the goblet from you and drains
it in a single swallow. Then he grabs a large, meaty
Orc bone from the table and thrusts it in your face. 1
quite like you,’ he says. ‘Have something to eat.’ You
take the bone and put it in your pack, telling him that
youll save it to énjoy later. Roll one die If the
number rolled is less than or equal to the number of
the potion, turn to 98. If it is higher than the number
of the potion, turn to rz,

177-178

177
After some distance, the walkway reaches another
cunction. Will you now go left (turn to 13) or carry
straight on (turn to 324)?

178

ihe morning arrives (regain 1 STAMINA point and tick
off the next day on your Adventure Sheet), and you
climb out from under your thick, frost-covered blan-
sets, the chill morning air reviving you and making
vou eager for the day’s adventures. You climb into the
doat, and sail on, The Forest is as dark as ever, and the
reeds seem to be encroaching more and more on the
river, Twice more you see amphibian eyes watching
+ou, but again they disappear as soon as you look at
chem. It is soon after the second of these sightings
cnat the boat lurches to a sudden halt. You let go of
che tiller and look over the stern. Some reeds have
tangled round the rudder; cursing, you reach over and
cry to pull them free, but they swirl in the water and
«tap themselves round your wrist. As the tiny,
aeedie-like hairs pierce your skin, sucking the blood
om your arm (deduct 4 sTAMINA points), you realize
cnat the plant is River Bloodweed. You jerk your arm
zack and the Weed flops back into the water, now a
sull red colour. If you have the Mystery Potion, you
could pour it over the Weed (turn to 371), If you don’t
xave it, or if you don’t wish to use it, will you hack at
me Weed with your sword (tum to 132) or reach back
mto the water to remove the plant by hand (turn to
201)?
179-181

179

The Zombie slumps to the ground. Its body bloats and
the skin begins to erupt. Before you can react, the
thing bursts, showering you with red mould spores,
which immediately start burrowing into your skin,
attacking your nerves. You feel a sudden pain, and
then nothing. You are now a Mould Zombie, com-
pletely in the power of the Vampyric Slime Mould

180

The Dark EIf, obviously satisfied by your reply, turns
his head away and’ goes on with what he was doing.
Without wasting a second, you back out through the
door and close it firmly. You slump against the wall,
breathing out a heavy sigh, That was very close. Once
your heart rate is under control once more, you walk
back down the corridor to an archway on the right. At
the end of the corridor, about ten metres further on
there is another archway. Both of these lead back into
the bottomless cavern. If you go right, turn to 236, If
you carry straight on, turn to 348.

181

‘Legends have it that Corianthus has a store of know-
ledge more vast, and more ancient, than anything in

18k

northern Allansia. It is said that he lives in a castle on
the top of a mountain called Harn Cloud, but I know
of no one who has ever climbed the mountain, let
alone seen the castle,’

You ask him how to get to this mountain

‘When you leave here, go down the north-western
side of the pass into a large corrie with a lake. Go
around the south side of the lake and across the
bridge, then follow the river southwards. Eventually
you will come to a munnel going up the side of a huge,
isolated mountain to the west. That is Harn Cloud,’
You're not quite sure about some of his technical
terms, but you think you can follow what he means,

If this is the second question that you have asked
Lokimur, turn to 274. If it is only the first, you may
ask another. What will it be about:

Thyra Migurn (if you know of her)? Turn to 39
What's happened to Sardath? Turn to 97
The Black Flyers? Turn to 368
The Toa-Suo? Turn to 385

BN

182-184

182

As you follow the stream, the ground becomes increas-
ingly steep and you find the going quite hard. But you
are no stranger to hardship and eventually you reach
the foot of the mountain. Unfortunately the stream is
tumbling down a steep gully which is much too hard
for you to climb, so you wander around on the
mountain's lowest slopes to see if there is an easier
way up. A little way around, you find a path coming
from the south-west. You follow it up the mountain-
side, but it ends abruptly after only fifty metres or so.
Will you press on, trying to find your own way up
{turn fo 33), or go back down to the foot of the
mountain (turn to 298)?

183

You are desperate now, for you have no way of
defending yourself. You make a run for the secret door
in the sarcophagus — but the Ghost still hasn’t moved,
so there is no room for you to squeeze past. A ghostly
arm flails out and delivers a life-draining hit. On your
Adventure Sheet, make a note that the Ghost has hit
you once. You now have no choice but to try to run
back the way you came in. Turn to 150.

184
If only you could get across the lake to Sardath and
talk to some of its people, many of your questions
might be answered. You search among the wrecks to
see if any are fit to sail, but the only thing you find
that will actually float is a small rowing boat. Will you
take this and row across to Sardath (turn to 345) or

185-186

leave the town and head north into the mountains
(turn to 8x)?

18s
‘This person is unconscious,’ says the voice. ‘So deep
is he, that he cannot be roused.’ There is a pause, then
the voice says, ‘To whom do you wish to speak?’ Turn
back to 99 and make another choice.

186

As you burst into the Council Chamber, you shout at
the other Councillors to grab the impostor, Tharbom,
Yerika and Toth dive on him and pin him to the
ground. While he is being held. you retrieve your
Council Ring, then search through his belongings. His
pack contains 5 Gold Pieces and three small bottles,
They are labelled: ‘1: Dried Chameleonite Blood’, ‘2:
Condensed Mist from the Mithrir Forest’, and ‘7:
Pickled Whole Shapechanger Brain’. They are clearly
components of some magical process, but you don’t
know what, Without consulting the other Councillors,
you put these articles in your own pack. While Morn
is being held, you try to interrogate the strange crea-
ture.

1 would rather die than tell you anything,” he says.
Grissa, who has moved to watch you at work says
that she believes him. You agree, then suggest that he
be locked up in the town prison. Morn is taken away,

‘He looked like a Dark EIf’ says Grissa, ‘but they don’t
have wings and talons. Still, it looks as though your
dark enemy theory was right.’ Tum to 291.

. ee
187-188

187

You walk all night without finding any landmark to
tell you where you are. Sometimes you go up hill, at
other times down. Filled with uncertainty, you don’t
dare make camp. As the night wears on, you become
increasingly fatigued (deduct iz point from your
STAMINA). Eventually the night draws to an end (tick
off the next day on your Adventure Sheet), As the
blackness of night fades into the pale blue of the pre-
dawn, you make out a bridge near by. You immediately
recognize it as Gwinir’s Bridge — you really did lose
your way! As you cross the bridge and walk towards
Sardath, you notice that the lake is enveloped in a
deep darkness, which is unaffected by the increasing
light. When a dark shape emerges from the gloom,
you think at first that it is a cloud — but to your horror
you realize that it’s a mass of Black Flyers, flying at
great speed over the Freezeblood Wall. Will you try
to follow them (tum to 16) or carry on into Sardath
(turn to 293)?

188
You are not some fearful Dwarf who would be more
happy tunnelling beneath the mountains than spending
a night in the Forest; you have ways of protecting
yourself from the attentions of nocturnal predators
other than lighting a fire and leaving it dangerously
unattended all night (lose 1 Luck point). Moreover,
you should know that many of the creatures that live
in the Forest are not afraid of fire. Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, tum to 19. If you are Unlucky, turn to

49.

18Q—191

189

You try to hold your breath, but you are not quick
enough, and some of the spores get into your lungs,
burning them and making you cough. But you survive
the ordeal, and walk on confidently. However, after
just a few metres, the floor suddenly gives way and
you tumble into a pit, hundreds of metres deep, with
only old Dark Elf bones and your death awaiting you
at the bottom.

Igo
The apparatus bubbles and smokes for a few minutes,
then glugs to a halt. Perhaps you used the wrong
ingredients or put them in the wrong places. Which-
ever it may be, you have blocked the apparatus or
damaged it in some way. You try to clear it, but you
don’t have any knowledge of these things and so are
unsuccessful. Since there is no way for you to try
making any other potions, turn back to 42, and take
one of the other options.

IQI

One of the covens of sorcerers turns in unison, their
wands aimed in your direction. You back away from
the edge of the balcony, out of their line of fire; but
the power they wield does not depend on sight, and a
huge black sphere rises over the balcony. You run
back into the corridor, slamming the door behind you,
but the sphere passes through as if it wasn’t there and
follows you, accelerating all the time. In seconds it is
upon you, engulfing you in its life-sapping blackness.
Your adventure is over.
I92—-IG4

192
You walk down the badly overgrown trail, thinking
about your old friend, Colrhyn, who usually keeps this
path open. Even though this hugely built and heavily
bearded man spends a lot of his time in the mountains,
he is the only human whose knowledge of the Forest
comes close to your own. You are brought up short
by a strange sight: a red log is lying by the side of the
path; when you look more closely, you see that the
colour is caused by a covering of deep red mould. A
sudden hissing from behind startles you and you spin
around. A huge, red, Zombie-like creature is lumbering
awkwardly along the path. You may escape by running
north-east (the Zombie is blocking the other way);
after a few minutes you leave the Zombie far behind
you, so you slow down to a walk (turn to 15). If you
don’t run, the Mould Zombie lurches towards you, its
arms outstretched, hissing unnaturally, It is already too
close for you to use your bow

MOULD ZOMBIE SKILL 6 STAMINA 60

Fight this battle for two Attack Rounds only. At the
end of that time, if the Zombie is still alive, turn to
114. If you have managed to destroy it, turn to 179.

193

This walkway leads almost immediately to a stairway,
which you climb up carefully until you come to a

oN small landing. Straight ahead there is an archway and

\ “7 th ‘ ' : :

onan. to your right is another walkway, Will you go straight
Wk
SSF ft, on (turn to 48) or tum right (tum to 3)?

; 4
—_
eM, =¥

SN
et SS a

194-195

194
The road itself is far too hard and cold to sleep on, so

you find a patch of dry heather and press it down into
a mattress, lie down and curl up in your blankets. It’s
not the best camp you've ever been in, but at least it’s
not snowing.

In the moming (tick off the next day on your Adventure
Sheet), you are shocked out of sleep by noisy clattering.
You open your eyes to see a merchant wagon coming
towards you. As you stand up, the driver hails you
and stops. You see that he is a Dwarf, obviously a
trader from Fangthane.

‘Good day to you,’ he says in his lilting north-eastern
accent. You greet him, then ask him if he’s going to
Sardath. ‘I am,’ he replies. ‘Can I offer you a lift?’ Will
you accept his offer {turn to 220) or warn him that
there is danger in Sardath and advise him to tum back
{tum to 266)?

195
You ask her if she has heard of Corianthus, the Storm
Giant. ‘Indeed, I have,’ she says, but she seerns sus-
picious. ‘What do you know of him?’ You show her
the Brass Key and explain about Colrhyn, ‘In that
case,’ she says, ‘I will tell you what I know. I have
visited Corianthus many times to bring news from
distant lands. I am a sailor, you see, and I have
travelled to many places. If you wish to consult with
Corianthus, you should go north from here, following
the river until you reach a small stream leading up the
side of a huge, isolated mountain. Persevere, and you

196—197

will reach the castle.’ You thank Neya again. She
smiles. ‘I will see you when I come back to Sardath to
celebrate the success of your mission.’ You laugh at
her bravado, then you watch as she heads towards
Gwinir's Bridge. Once Neya is out of sight, you turn
towards the north, following her advice, and begin the
trek into the mountains. Turn to 81.

196

Your sword slices into Mom’s side and he staggers
backwards. You move towards him and raise your
sword to strike him again, However, instead of slashing
at you with his talons, he makes a dive for you. Roll
two dice. If the total ts greater than your sxitt, he
grabs you round the waist, bringing you to the ground
with a thud and forcing you to let go of your sword
(turn to 212). If the total is less than or equal to your
SKILL, then you see the attack coming and manage to
dodge nimbly out of his way. He turns and raises his
talons, Turn back to 381 and continue the fight.

197
Even though it is completely tangled up in the piant’s
roots, you manage at last to draw the sword out. Just
as you pull your hand back, a drip of honey-like fluid
drops from one of the flowers on to the ground. You
curse yourself for a fool as you realize that this is a
Death Dripper. You were lucky: if that drip had
touched you, you would now be dead, food for the
plant, You breathe a sigh of relief and examine the
sword, With a shock, you recognize it as Sorrel’s. This
is strange, for he was a Wood-Elf and a better woods-
198-200

man than you'll ever be. Whatever has happened here,
he didn’t fall into the Death Dripper by accident, The
sword, being silver, is much better than your own, so
you take it and swear that you will use it to avenge
Sorrel's death, You then say a few words of farewell
to your old friend, and walk on. Some hours later, as
the sun is beginning to set, you approach the fork in
the road where the Elf village is hidden among the
trees. Turn fo 332.

198
If you wrote something like ‘Hold up the Brass Key’,
turn to 66. If you didn’t, the Eagle takes no notice of
your action, whatever it was, and you have only just
enough time to draw your sword. Tum to 89.

199
The voice booms out even louder. “You foolish mortal.
| asked you for the password, not your name. Now
give it me before I become angry.’ Will you say
‘Faegh’ (turn to 91) or ‘Elath’ (tum to 343)?

200
As you lay the tiles on the prid, a click comes from
the direction of the wall and a secret door opens,
revealing a small room beyond. It was probably a safe
storeroom, although it couldn't have been very secure,
for there is a hole in the wall where the Dark Elves
broke in. However, there has been a rock fall since
then, and the tunnel is now completely blocked, But
the damage has been done: everything has either been
smashed or taken ... everything, that is, except for

_= >

.
|

201

one small bottle, lying on its side under a pile of broken
glass. It is labelled ‘5: Lycanthrope Saliva’. There is
nothing else in here, so you leave the storeroom and go
back to the numbers puzzle. Even though the storeroom
has been thoroughly ransacked, you remove the ‘2’ and
the ‘o' from the board and watch as the secret door
closes, vanishing as if it had never been there.

For a while, you tinker around with some of the other
games and puzzles, but no further secrets are revealed
so you leave the Games Room and go back into the
Observatory, Will you go through the door on your
left into the Library (tum to 166) or go straight ahead
through the unmarked door (tum to 110)?

201

Realizing that the Bloodweed has gorged itself on your
blood and so is no longer dangerous, you plunge your
hand back into the icy water. The Weed lets you untangle
it fom your rudder without fighting back (regain 1 Luck
point). With your boat now free, you can sail on. An hour
or so later, you spot another pair of amphibian eyes
202

gazing at you. This time, instead of looking back at them
directly, you keep on looking forward but you watch the
eyes at the edge of your feld of vision. Not realizing that
you have seen it, the creature stays in view. Will you
quickly grab your bow and shoot an arrow at it (turn to
go), or wait to see what it does (turn to 294)?

202
‘So, you are a friend of those destructive Dwarfs, are
you? I despise them, delving all the time into the
secrets of the mountains.’ There is a sudden blinding
flash and you clasp your hands over your eyes. ‘Go to
them and tell them that Thyra Migurn laughs at their
misfortunes.’

When you muster enough courage to lower your
hands and open your eyes, you see a vast creature
standing before you, almost a mountain in itself. It is
vaguely humanoid, although its body is a constantly
changing mass of energy. Lightning arcs into the sky
from its head and torso, and huge balls of fiery plasma
are crashing into the mountainside all round you.
None of it is aimed directly at you, but there is so
much power flying about that you could be wounded
by accident. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, none of
it hits you. If you are Unlucky, you are painfully
burned by some plasma (roll one die and deduct that
many points from your STAMINA). If you survive, you
race down the mountain to escape Thyra’s fury. As
you are clambering over the rocks, you throw a glance
over your shoulder: a pulse of light is coming from
Thyra’s body as she arcs up into the clouds

203-204

A short time later, you are at the path at the foot of
the mountain, relieved to have made it back alive.
Turn fo 298.

203
You wait for some time, desperately trying to come
up with a plan to extricate you from this situation
Suddenly you begin to feel strange: the transformation
potion is wearing off, and there is nothing you can do
about it. When he sees what is happening to you, one
of the Guards screams, ‘Human!’ and they all attack.
You fight as well as you can, but there are far too
many of them. Your adventure is over.

204
Your action proves you to be an impostor, so Sorrel
gives the order: Fire!’ A volley of arrows from the
Elves flies across the clearing, Your adventure ends
here.

205-206

205

You open the door cautiously and Jook in. This room
is full of Dark Elves, all of them armed but most are
just sitting around, either playing games, cleaning their
weapons, or eating and drinking. Realizing that you
must do something in order not to arouse their suspi-
cion, you glance round the room, pretending to be
looking for someone. You are on the point of turning
and leaving when one of the Dark Elves looks up
casually and says in greeting, ‘Valethion, Chaugh.’ He
gazes at you, clearly éxpecting a reply. What will you
say:

‘Valethion? Turn to 56

‘Chaugh’? Turn to 359

‘Thionel’? Turn to 180
206

After making a bivouac out of wood tom from the
wrecks, you settle down to sleep. Being in the dry and
out of the icy wind, you spend a very comfortable
night (regain 3 STAMINA points).

In the morning (tick off the next day on your Adventure
Sheet), you wake up, bright and refreshed. If today is
Highday, turn to 50. If it is not, you set off without
delay, punting the barge with a long pole, Once it has
got up a good speed, you let the current take it so
that you can rest further (regain 2 sTAMINA points).
As you lie on the raft, half dozing, you begin to
wonder: how is it that the water here is so clear, when
in the Forest the river is so overgrown.

207

Some hours [ater you reach the point where the river
turns south and this puzzle is solved. There is a
tributary here with a strange yellowish tinge. Down-
stream of the point where it joins the river, the
polluted water has caused the river to become over-
grown with weeds. The tributary itself is clear, prob-
ably because it is flooding so fast. Since you are not
able to travel any further in the barge, you bring it to
land on the west bank, just past the junction of the
two rivers, then you jump off and prepare to continue
your adventure on foot. Will you follow the tributary
north (turn to 122) or follow the river south towards
Sardath (tum to 142)?

207

Since the first Slykk is faster than his companion, he
arrives ahead of him, and immediately goes into a
fury, screaming something unintelligible in his strange
croaking language. Fight him for two Attack rounds
At the start of the third Attack round, the second
Slykk arrives, and you must carry on the battle against
them both simultaneously,

SKILL STAMINA
First SLYKK 8 2
Second SLYKK 6 5

If you win, a lot more Slykk rise up out of the river
and advance towards you. You are forced to back
away into the Forest. After a few metres, they halt and
watch you, You are impossibly outnumbered, so you

208-209

decide to leave the land of the Slykk and head north
Turn to 267.

208

The fungi in this tunnel look like giant black puffballs.
They are ominous-looking things, so you walk along
trying not to touch them, However, when you have
progressed only a few metres, several of them explode,
engulfing you in a cloud of choking black spores. Roll
two dice, If the total is less than or equal to your
SKILL, turn to 223. If the total is greater than your
SKILL, turn to 264.

209
The Sorcerer becomes suddenly firm. ‘I know I’m right.
The amulet cannot possibly have faded.’ A look of
recognition crosses his face. “You are trying to fool me
— you want me to attack you. So my attempts to
obscure the efforts of that cursed astrologer weren't
enough, and you have implemented Khornu’s Attenua-
tion, turning the amulet from a mere shield to a
reflector.’ He smiles. ‘But it is of no matter, for now |
know of your achievement,’ He pauses, ‘And I also
know that you don’t possess any secret magic.’

Even if you have no idea what he is talking about, it is
too late to try to dissuade him; you can tell he is
going to attack. So you draw your sword as swiftly as
you can,

Faeleom rath mardex’
210

When you run at him, you crash into a wall of
impenetrable force and stumble backwards, stunned.
The Sorcerer raises his staff, spraying you with a
viscous jet of life-sapping darkness. Your adventure is
over.

210
As your fingers close around the creeper, the creeper
curls up round your fingers! You struggle to pull
away, but several other creepers have already wrapped
themselves around you. It is too late to use your bow,
but you just manage to draw your sword.

STRANGLE WEED SKILL & STAMINA 12

Even though you may attack the Strangle Weed, it
doesn’t fight back in the normal way; it simply crushes
1 point of sTAMINA out of you every Attack Round
If you defeat the Weed, you extricate yourself from
the dead tendrils and climb down the tree, Now that
you know what to avoid, you find a tree with non-
camivorous creepers and swing safely across the river

As you walk along, you notice that many of the Giant
Spider webs have been woven much closer than usual
to the trail — some threads even stretch across the
path. But the Spiders in this area are trappers, not
hunters, so you are safe as long as you don’t stumble
into one of their webs. After many hours of walking,
just as the sun is beginning to set you reach the fork
in the road where the EIf village is hidden among the
trees, Turn to 332.

211-212

211
Roxsir leads you through many tunnels and out on to
a ledge above a north-facing cliff. You lean over the
parapet and see the huge army of Toa-Suo trying to
climb up. The Dwarfs are trying to repel them by
throwing down rocks which have been brought up
from the tunnels below. Nevertheless some Toa-Suo
still make it as far as the ledge; the axe warriors are
there to finish them off.

During the course of the day, three Toa-Suo succeed
in clambering up on the ledge in your area. They don’t
all get there at once, of course, so you can fight them
one at a time. There is no room to use your bow.

SKILL STAMINA
First TOA-SUO 6 11
Second TOA-SUO 5 12
Third TOA-SUO 7 $

If you defeat them all, the end of the day finally
arrives and the Toa-Suo retreat. When the order is
given to stand down, you follow the Dwarfs as they
traipse into the tunnels, exhausted by the day’s fight-
ing. Turn to 322.

212
You roll around on the ground, arms and legs flailing,
each trying to get a grip on the other, Even though
you are not using your sword, don’t deduct any points
from your SKILL since you are on equal footing with
the impostor, Also, since you are not hitting each
other, neither of you takes any damage — conduct the
fight as detailed below, but don’t deduct any points
2143

from the sTAMINA score of either of you. (If you have
already fought Morn with your sword, his sTAMINA
score may be less than that given.)

MORN PREELER SKILL 7

Roll two dice to determine the Attack Strength for
both yourself and Morn. If the result is a draw, you
fight on with neither gaining the advantage — roll
again. If you win the Attack Round, you gain the
advantage and have the choice of what to do next.
Will you leap away from him, grab your sword and
attack him (turn to 384), leap away from him, and then
run (turn to 398), or try to get him in a firm hold (turn
to ro)? If Mom wins the Attack Round, he gets the
advantage (turn to 118).

STAMINA 8

213
Trying to row in this weather is a terrible ordeal, and
you nearly don’t make it, With a titanic effort, you
manage to pull alongside the sailing boat. You see that
the sailor is just sitting there in blind panic, so you
shout at him in a commanding voice to come and help
you, and he is shaken out of his stupor, Once aboard,
you take over command of the boat and eventually
you both make it ashore. Once there, the man intro-
duces himself as Jonnan; he thanks you for saving his
life (regain 1 Luck point). ‘Tam no sailor,’ he says, ‘but
when I saw Neya drown yesterday, I realized that
someone had to try to escape.’ You tell him that he
might well have died. ‘The storm has got steadily
worse over the last few days,’ he says, ‘tomorrow you
probably won't even be able to get in a boat, let alone

21 4=215

sail it. This was the last chance.’ You tell him you are
surprised that the storm never lets up. ‘It does,’ he
says, ‘at nightfall, when the Black Flyers come. It is to
defend the town from them that most folk remain in
Sardath.’ You explain about your mission, and his dour
expression lifts a little. Then you ask him if he knows
where the Black Flyers come from. ‘All I know is that,
about an hour after the sun has gone down, a dark
army appears from over the Freezeblood Wall.’ If you
have a Brass Key, turn to 68, Otherwise, turn to 305

214

As the Ghost emerges, you observe behind it the faint
outline of a door in the sarcophagus, a secret opening
that it must be trying to defend. At the moment,
however, this is inaccessible since the Ghost is in the
way. If you ever want to make a run for the secret
door, add 20 to the number of the paragraph that you
are reading at the time, then turn to the paragraph
with that number. For now, turn to 316.

215
‘Die, human!’

You snap your head around and look up at the
balcony. Another coven of Dark Elves is there, point-
ing at you with their black wands. You run towards
the part of the balcony where they are standing and
dive for its shelter, but the power they wield does not
depend on sight; a huge black sphere floats down
towards you, By the time you see it, it is too late; you
are engulfed in its dark, life-sapping power. Your
adventure is over,
216-217

216

At the top of the stairway is an immense door, about
ten metres high and three metres wide. It opens as
you walk towards it, closing behind you once you
have stepped through. This room is roughly the same
shape as the building, except that it is about half the
size, In front of you, there is an immense cylindrical
cage with some sort of magical energy oscillating
between its bars. Standing inside the cage, almost
filling it, is a Storm Giant, apparently in some kind of
tortured trance. Behind the Giant are two groups of
Dark Elves. The ones on the left are seated round a
table, eating and drinking, laughing and screaming,
oblivious to the torment of the Giant. The others, on
the Giant’s right, are standing in a circle round a
magical diagram on the floor, chanting and swaying,
performing some dark ritual. If you have a Lightning
Sphere, it begins to crackle, indicating an urgent desire
to be used. If you throw it between the two groups of
Dark Elves, tum to 382. If you don’t have a Lightning
Sphere, or if you don’t want to use it, no one has
noticed you yet, so you may leave (turn to 29). If you
decide to stay, will you go up to the Storm Giant
(turn to 129), walk round him to the left (turn to 238),
or walk round him to the right (turn to 337)?

217
The apparatus bubbles and smokes for a few minutes,
then a clear liquid drips out of the end into a small
phial. There is no use in making a potion and not
using it, so you pick up the phial and drink its
contents, For a moment or two nothing happens, but
218

then you feel your body changing, becoming lighter.
Soon you are nothing but a creature of mist, and all
your equipment clatters uselessly to the floor. You can
move about and see and hear, but there is nothing you
can do. Your adventure is over; a new one has begun.

218

You pass within metres of the Black Flyer but not close
enough to grab him. As you hurtle towards the trees,
you pray that they will break your fall. For a moment
there is just pain and noise as your falling body is
battered by branches ‘and scratched by twigs (roll two
dice and deduct the total from your stamina), If you are
hardy enough to have survived this horrific ordeal, you
find yourself lying in the wreckage of a clump of young
trees, You still have your pack containing your Herbs
and gold, and your sword, if you didn’t drop it when
you were fighting Tulien. But your bow and arrows are
back in the Council Recess Chamber in Grimmund, You
haul yourself painfully to your feet. Before you is a small
mound, in the front of which is set a stone door, covered
with lichen. However, there is no time to investigate
now for the two Black Flyers are landing in front of you;
they draw long black swords and walk malevolently
towards you. You must fight them simultaneously.
Remember: if you don’t have your sword, you mus!
deduct 2 points from your Attack Strength.

SKILL STAMINA
First BLACK FLYER 10 5
Second BLACK FLYER 4 7

If you win, tum to 262.

219-220

219
You nock an arrow and roll sideways to face the
Spider, firing from where you lie in order to take it by
surprise, As your arrow arcs through the air, the Giant
Spider spits several jets of thick, sticky thread towards
sou, binding you and fixing you to the ground, Roll
<wo dice to see whether your arrow hits. If it does,
make a note to deduct 2 points from the Spider's
STAMINA if you survive to fight it. Whether or not the
atow hits, you must now attempt to break free of the
webs before the Spider gets to you. Roll two dice. If
she total is greater than your SKILL, you are unable to
tee yourself and the spider will fall on you before you
can retaliate, It is in no way a fighter but, since it has
you in its webs, the Giant Spitting Spider can drop its
loathsome body on top of you and inject you with its
paralysing poison, putting an untimely end to both
your life and your mission. However, if the total is less
than or equal to your SKILL, you escape from the webs
‘ust as the Spider falls on you, Turn to 320.

220
You climb up on to the wagon, glad to have a rest
trom walking. The Dwarf, who is called Fangnir, starts
grumbling about the people of Sardath: they are always
trying to do him out of his ‘honest’ profit. You smile
to yourself and let him ramble on, glad not to have to
put much effort into your side of the conversation.
After about a quarter of an hour, you hear a strange
rumbling sound coming from the road beneath you.
You tell Fangnir to stop talking and then listen care-
tully, The sound is growing louder, like an earthquake
221-222

approaching. Suddenly the road itself cracks, and you
shout at Fangnir to spur his horses into a gallop. He
lashes at them with the reins but it is too late. The
whole wagon is lifted up on the erupting road-surface
You shout at Fangnir to jump from the wagon, but he
is frozen with fear, You cannot leave him, so you grab
him and try to drag him off with you as you jump
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 341. If you
are Unlucky, turn to ago.

221
The Giant Eagle flies you to a rocky crag on the
east side of the mountain. There is a strange yellow
stream flowing out of a small cave in the crag, and
the Eagle lands you here. You rub your shoulders
and stretch your arms, pleased to discover that no
serious damage has been done. While you are doing
this, the Eagle screeches at you and spreads its
wings, Guessing that it is going now, you wave an
arm at it in thanks. The Eagle screeches at you once
more, then flies off. When you turn and look into
the cave, you see that it leads to a narrow tunnel
going deep into the mountain. A path runs along
this tunnel, with the stream flowing beside it. Will
you follow the tunnel (tur to 116) or leave this
place and carry on walking up the mountain (tum to
388)?

222
‘Ah’ he says in an almost friendly tone, ‘now I see
what it is that is making you so confident.’ He pauses,
looking thoughtful. ‘So it was you who destroyed my

:
|
|
|

222

two Flyers. And you managed to get into the tomb
and retrieve the amulet.’ He smiles. ‘Well done’ Having
no desire to take part in this bizarre conversation, you
stand there impassively, Unperturbed, the Sorcerer
goes on. ‘When the last pair of Flyers reported that
che tomb had been destroyed, I thought I had lost the
amulet.’ He laughs quietly. ‘But now I see that you
aave brought it for me. Please accept my humble
thanks.’

The Brain Slayer Amulet is the only object you have
cnat you can use against him. But how? For the
moment, all you have is talk, so you are forced to say
something. Will you tell him to go ahead and kill you
2 he wants the amulet (turn to 79), tell him that, if he
makes any move against you, you will destroy the
amulet (turn to 16x), or tell him that, if he makes a
move against you, you will use the amulet against him
‘urn to 383)?

223-224

223
You slap your hand over your mouth and pinch your
nostrils closed with your thumb and forefinger. Thus
protected against the spores, you run down the tunnel.
The fungus comes to an end after a short distance and
you reach an area lit by torches. Two tough-looking
Dwarf guards are standing here, but they don’t seem
at all aggressive. ‘Welcome, human,’ one of them says
‘Would you please follow us. You are the first human
we have seen for many days, so Lokimur is sure to
want to see you immediately.’

The Dwarfs lead you through the convoluted tunnels
of what looks more like an underground settlement
than a mine, eventually bringing you to a chamber
where an important-looking Dwarf is sitting behind a
large stone desk. ‘] am Lokimur, son of Bakulor, leader
of this band of refugee Dwarfs in these dangerous and
hasty times.’ He hands you a beautifully fashioned Red
Gem. ‘A gift, he says, ‘to thank you for braving the
mountains to come to us — whoever you are.’ Will
you tell him only that you are an adventurer seeking
help in finding and destroying the Black Flyers (turn to
306), or are you prepared to give him your name and
tell him that you hail from Grimmund in the Forest of
Night, travelling under orders from the Grimmund
Council (turn to 331)?

224
The bridge is a sturdy affair, evidently of Dwarven
construction. You cross it, then follow the track as it
leads you southwards along the bank of the stream
For a while you are able to forget the desperate nature

.

225-226

of your mission and enjoy the beautiful scenery. But
the illusion of calm is soon shattered when you come
to another, smaller stream — a runnel tumbling down
the side of a huge, isolated mountain to the west. Its
water has a strange yellowish tint. Where it joins the
main stream, there are ribbons of yellow snaking
erratically southwards; further down, the whole stream
is tainted. Will you turn west and follow the runnel up
the side of the mountain (turn to 318) or leap across it
and continue following the track south (turn to 276)?

225
Seemingly from nowhere, a name leaps into your
mind: ‘Krystal Erlho.’ The gods must really be with
you, for this is the name of the secret love of Khornu
Wych ... This is not the actual password, however,
since there isn’t one; it is but a key to a key. A voice
emanates from the door — the seer speaking from ages
past: ‘Krystal, my love, I prayed that one day you
might come and join me, Now we shall be together
for eternity. Give the Sign of Summoning, and enter.’
The voice is then silent. Will you:

Search for an opening mechanism? Turn to 75
Smash the door with your sword (if

you have one)? Turn to 136
Give up? Turn to 349

226
As you strike the final blow, a blinding light flares out
from the woman’s armour; the whole thing turns into
a crackling ball of lightning, and a huge voice crashes

227

out over the mountains. ‘So you dare to defeat Thyra
Migurn in combat. For that there must be a prize.’

A bolt of lightning bursts from the blazing sphere,
arcing into your sword. Instead of electrocuting you,
however, the power stays within the weapon. From
now on, every time you draw your sword against a
Black Flyer or a Dark Elf, it will blaze with lightning
power (deduct 3 points per hit from their sTAMINA
instead of the usual 2). However, make a note that
there is enough power in your sword for four such
battles, after which it wil revert to normal.

‘But now,’ says Thyra, ‘either you will show proper
obeisance or be forced to behold me in my true form,’
Will you kneel before her (turn to 315), or do you
refuse (turn to 350)?

227

‘So you have appeared, finally,’ says Liam when you
contact him. He looks terribly tired and is streaked
with blood and grime. You ask him what happened.
“You came back,’ he says. ‘Well, not the real you, an
impostor, He had your Council Ring, so Grissa be-
lieved it was you. Anyway, the impostor told them
what they wanted to hear. No one asked me, so I had
no chance to find out the truth,’ He pauses and shakes
his head in apparent disbelief, ‘And then the war
began, As soon as we hit the Forest, it hit back.’ He
breaks off suddenly and looks to one side, ‘Curse them
all! They're here already,’ There is a crash, and you see
a Giant Spider scuttling towards Liam. ‘Goodbye,
Councillor,’ he says, and the image disappears.

;

228-230

Desperate to find out what is happening, you call up
-he astrologer again. But the smooth, cultured voice
aust says: ‘There is no one of that. name living in
Grimmund,’ After a moment, it asks dispassionately,
To whom do you wish to speak?’ Turn back to gg and
make another choice.

228

The archway leads into a short tunnel which is both
wide and high and is decorated with shadowy wall-
paintings whose gruesome effect is worsened by the
unnatural-looking light emanating from the surround-
ing fungi. However, you are soon through the tunnel
and away from its sickness, You are now back in the
bottomless cavern, so you lower your gaze at once to
avoid its insanity. Nevertheless you can still see the
stairway that leads down from here, so you follow it
to a small platform, On the right of the platform is an
archway; to its left, a stairway leads downwards, Will
vou go right (turn to 48), or left (turn to 302)?

229
The monster resumes its charge, and soon you are in
combat. The fight is hard and you are hopeful that
you are going to win. However, when a flight of Black
Flyers arrives, there can be no doubt about the out-
come, Your adventure is over.

230
The only object you have that might harm the Mould
is the Mystery Potion the trader gave you, so you pull
out the bottle and smash it on the monster. In an
231

instant a large area of the Mould withers away into
nothing. The colony is decimated and virtually power-
less; forced to retreat, it slithers off you and slimes its
way back into the forest. Amazingly, it also slithers off
the Zombie, revealing the true shape of the man
beneath. [t is Colrhyn. He sits on one of the logs,
obviously exhausted by his ordeal. I'm sorry | attacked
you,’ he says, ‘but the Vampyric Slime Mould domi-
nated my will.’ You console him and give him one of
your Herbs. Once he has recovered a little, you help
him to walk back along the path to his cabin. He lies
down on his bed, -still cramped and weak, and you
give him some more Herbs from his own supplies.
While he is eating them, you make sure that plenty
more are within easy reach of his bed. Once you feel
certain that he is going to recover, you tell him briefly
about your mission and its urgency. ‘Now I under-
stand,’ he says, but his eyes are drooping — he is in
desperate need of rest. Will you press him for informa-
tion (turn to 384) or, leaving him to sleep, go north-
west up the trail from his cottage (turn to 15)?

231
Even though he is quite old, Liam Astromonius, the
astrologer, is a friend of yours, haying helped you in
many of your adventures, When Liam opens his oaken
door to your knocking, he smiles, ‘1 thought you
would be paying me a visit. Come in.’ Once inside, the
astrologer asks you to sit down. He sits opposite you
and indicates his star charts. ‘I've been working on this
all night but I am still unable fo tell you anything
about this mission. | have studied the charts as closely

232

as 1 can, but there is some cloud hanging over your
future. Either that,’ a flicker of self-doubt passes across
his face, ‘or there is some power interfering with my
activities’ Then he smiles strangely. ‘But there is still
something | haven't tried. It is a powerful but danger-
ous ritual, especially if the gods are not with you. No
non-magician has ever seen it and lived’ Do you insist
that you must witness the ritual (turn to 143), or will
you take the astrologer’s advice and let him enter his
spell chamber alone (turn to 167)?

232
You walk along the road for many hours, wondering
what you are going to find in Sardath, The mountains
to the north look cold and forbidding; the Forest to
the south looks dark and evil. It seems as if your
whole world has been darkened. Later in the day, as
you are crossing Gwinir's Bridge, you see your fears
for Sardath justified: the whole lake is enveloped in a
deep, unnatural darkness. Your heart sinks and you
come to a halt, very nearly giving up, But if the people
of Sardath are trapped by this darkness, you may be
their only hope; you must go on. With this thought in
mind, you press on towards the town. Turn to 293,

233
233

One of the covens of sorcerers tums and glares at
you, but the Lightning Sphere is already falling towards
chem. An instant later it hits the ground, exploding
into a mass of lighting and fire. For a second you feel
intense heat on your face, and you close your eyes in
shock. And then it is gone, You walk back to the edge
and look down, All that remains is a thick layer of
grey dust covering the ground.

On the other side of the balcony there are some steps
leading down to the floor below. In a state of mild
shock, you walk over to them and go down to inspect
the damage you have wrought, hoping to find some
remains of the Sorcerer himself. [f you have a set of
Iron Keys, turn immediately to 215. If you do not, you
spend a few minutes looking around but finding noth-
ing. Suddenly a part of the wall slides to one side and
a robed figure steps out — the Sorcerer. You stand
before him, triumphant among the havoc you have
caused, but he is unimpressed. ‘T still have the power
to tum the tide You have brought the Wood Elves
and freed the slaves, but J have a greater power than
you can imagine. You have destroyed my acolytes,
but they can easily be replaced. And I] have plumbed
so many of the depths of Corianthus’s mind that | will
soon be able to force him to cover this whole land
with darkness,’ The Sorcerer looks at you through
narrowed eyes. ‘And yet you stand there, apparently
unafraid. Is this bravery, or mere foolishness?’ lf you
are wearing a Brain Slayer Amulet, turn to 222. If you
are not, turn to 48.
2347255

234
The instant he is close enough for hand-to-hand

combat, the Slykk goes into a fury and attacks you,
screaming something unintelligible in his strange, croak-
ing language.

Second SLYKK SKILL 6

If you win, a mass of other Slykk rise up out of the
river and advance towards you. You are forced to
back away into the forest. After a few metres they
stop and watch you. You are impossibly outnumbered,
so you decide to leave the territory of the Slykk and
head north. Turn to 267.

STAMINA 5

235
Both the amulet and its chain are made of solid gold
and are very heavy. The octopoidal humanoid en-
graved on the front of the amulet is a Brain Slayer, a
creature renowned for feeding on the mental energy
of its victims. It is writhing in flaming torment. On the
back of the amulet is carved the symbol ‘1X’. When
you put the amulet on, you can feel its magic, though
you can only guess at its function. Unfortunately the
amulet is so big and cumbersome that it is difficult for
you to do anything like fight or move stealthily
(deduct 2 points from your skILL; this penalty can be
relieved only by taking off the amulet). If you remove
the amulet and put it in your pack, you will not suffer
its debilitating effects; you may put it back on again at
any time when you are not engaged in combat or any
other restrictive activity. (If you are asked whether
you are wearing the amulet, it will already be too late

236-237

for you to put it on.) Make a note on your Adventure
Sheet that you have the Brain Slayer Amulet and keep
a record of whether you are wearing it or carrying it in
your pack. Now turn back to 92 and select another item.

236

As you step through the archway on to yet another
walkway, you quickly lower your gaze to avoid the
insane architecture. This walkway feels even higher
than the others you have been on, although you
daren’t look down to find out whether your presenti-
ment is accurate. You meet no junctions as you walk
along, just another archway at the end, leading to a
short tunnel. This tunnel is lit only by the weak light
that filters in from either end, so you feel at something
of a disadvantage; but it soon emerges into the dim
light, high up the wall of a vast cavern. The glimpse
you catch of the cavern as you step through reveals
that you are standing on a long platform, very near its
ceiling. From what you can hear, some sort of activity
seems to be going ona long way below you. With some
misgivings you walk towards the sound, When you reach
the edge of the platform, you tentatively look down,
ready to throw yourself back against the wall should this
cavern be full of the same mind-wrenching architecture as
the bottomless cavern. But the buildings on this side are
just sane enough for you to be able to look at them
without having your mind unbalanced. Turn to 135.

237
After walking several hundred metres more, you reach
the side of the cavem; it is like a huge cliff, with

ay hrrtrr—C(RTNNRRNNN—§-_——_ ss i esis
437

tunnels and caves where it has been quarried by the
Dwarfs. As you watch, an open cart creaks towards
you, fully laden with blocks of dressed stone. With a
mixture of sadness and joy, you recognize one of the
two Dwarfs pushing the cart: it is Arneggur Thugfist,
a hard, experienced officer in Sardath’s Fifth Hammer
and Axe. You shout at them to stop and walk up to
Ameggur.

‘What is it?’ he says in an exasperated tone. In a
hushed voice you tell him who you are and the reason
you are here. He is delighted that you have come but
quickly turns the conversation to escape and retribu-
tion. “You will have to go to the slavers’ camp and
steal a set of keys,’ he says, pointing along a rocky
road. “Go down that way, but, before you reach the
stairway which goes up to the balcony, turn left. The
camp is along this track When you have the keys,
bring them straight to me. This lot are spoiling for a
fight and, with me to lead them, nothing will stand in
our path,’ If you have already been to the slaver camp,

238-239

turn to 295. If you have not, you leave the quarry and
tollow the road for a kilometre or two, then turn left,
heading towards what looks like a temporary military
camp, Turn to 362.

238

You walk round the side of the room until you are
level with the archway. When you look through here,
you are amazed by the splendour of what you see. In
the centre of a large hall, with great staircases going
up and down to other floors, is a long table, with at
least thirty Dark Elves sitting round it. They are
feasting but are showing no signs of enjoyment; they
are just leering over their gruesome food like fastidious,
demonic gourmets.

One of them turns around. ‘Would you like to come in
for dinner?’ he says.

Will you accept the invitation and go through the
archway (tum to 396) or say that you have other
business to attend to, then quickly move away? If you
choose the latter course of action, will you go towards
the diners (turn to 6§) or towards the ritual (turn to

337)?

239
He looks at you with mock sadness. ‘Oh, that is a
shame,’ he says. ‘And you were doing so well’ Sud-
denly his facia] muscles become tense with fury. ‘But
now you have pushed me too far with your weak
deceptions.’ Realizing he is going to attack, you draw
your sword as swiftly as you can.
240-241

‘Faeleorn rath mardex.’

When you mun at him, you crash into a wall of
impenetrable force and stumble backwards, stunned.
The Sorcerer raises his staff, spraying you with a
viscous jet of life-sapping darkness, Your adventure is
over.

240

You walk along the trail between the sheer mountains
to the north and the long, sharp ridge to the south
After you have travelled a few kilometres, you reach
the western edge of the ridge. The trail turns south
here, and you follow it as far as the river. On the
riverbank there is a landing-stage and several barges
Most of the boats have been wrecked, although there
is one that would just about bear your weight. If you
embark straight away and start punting down the
river, tum to 347. However, it is now getting quite
late, so you could make camp and sail tomorrow (tum
to 206).

241
After a few moments they abandon whatever it was
that they were doing and step back. One of them
holds up a small phial; when the other nods, he throws
it at the door. There is a loud explosion and a cloud of
smoke and you duck down to shield yourself from the
blast. When you look up again, the smoke has cleared
and you can see that the door is completely untouched.
The two black creatures, however, have been blown to
pieces! You walk across to the mound and examine the

242

door, It is just as it was when you saw it from a
distance — cold, heavy stone, covered with lichen —
except now you can see something engraved on its
surface: ‘Here within lie the remains of Khornu Wych,
Seer and Visionary. Whosoever desecrates this tomb
shall be haunted by my spirit and destroyed.’ This is
quite a threat. Nevertheless, there must be something
vital in this tomb, or your secret enemy wouldn't be
so desperate for it. You decide that it is up to you to
break into the tomb and get this thing before they do.
If you think you might know the password and wish
to try it, turn to 2. Otherwise, will you search for an
opening mechanism (turn to 7§) or, if you have one,
break down the door with your sword (turn to 136)?

242
Roll two dice and deduct 3 from the total, If this value
is less than or equal to your skILL, turn to 334, If it is
greater than your SKILL, turn to 386,

243~244

243
DANGEROUS FUNGI

Many fungi are saprophytic, which means that they
feed on the decaying matter of other organisms. How-
ever, some species are more pernicious even than that.
These species actually spray a cloud of spores which
kill their prey. The spores then grow into new individu-
als, which feed on the decaying corpse.

Ect Bane: This is a black fungus, much like the giant
puftball, It is only slightly harmful to surface-dwelling
Elves, but is lethal to Dark Elves. This specialism has
developed into something of a bizarre symbiosis; for
Dark Elves have been known to send individuals of
their own kind into patches of the fungus for sport or
as punishment.

Green Cap: This is a pale-green fungus, much like the
oyster mushroom but with a green top and small
spikes round the base. It is harmful only to Rock
Grubs and Giant Spiders, and so is an excellent species
for protecting mines.

Now turn back to the paragraph you came from.

244
The Dwarf nods his head very slightly and stands up.
He walks over to the newcomer quite casually and
asks the guards to wait a moment. He asks the Dwarf
a few questions and then turns away, apparently satis-
fied. Suddenly he swings around, drawing a heavy
war-hammer. The impostor Dwarf, realizing that he
has been discovered, tries to defend himself, but he is
245

on his own and is armed with only a dagger. Once it
is all over, the Dwarfs come over to you, “We owe
you a great debt, adventurer, in addition to what you
have already done.’ You tell them that you fight on
behalf of all the good people of the Forest and the
mountains. ‘Well said I am sure that you will become
known as a great Dwarf-friend, even as far as Fang-
thane — if we survive.’

For a while you all fall quiet as you watch the black
sky slowly turn to the pale blue of the pre-dawn (tick
off the next day on your Adventure Sheet). If today is
Highday, turn to §0. If it is not, turn to 4.

245

Since the creatures inside are averse to sunlight, there
is no chance of them looking up and seeing you. As
you watch, you see a Dark Elf running out of view to
your left, and several others going to your right. You
hear doors slam and what sound like Dark EIf curses,
but they die down after a few minutes. This castle was
built for a Giant, so there is a ten-metre drop to the
floor of the room below. If you have a rope, you loop
it round one of the battlements and use it to abseil
down, Once you have landed, you tug on the rope’s
end and pull it down behind you. If you do not, you
have no choice but to jump. No matter how agile you
may be, such a long drop means that you are bound
to suffer some injury (roll one die and deduct that
many STAMINA points).

The room you have entered is not just a means of

246-247

access for the Eagle, it is also an observatory. There
are star charts on the walls and a huge telescope
pointing up through the trapdoor But there is nothing
else in here, so you decide to leave through one of the
immense doors. Will you go through the one on your
left, marked ‘Games Room’ {turn to 78), or the one in
front of you, marked ‘Library’ (turn to 166), or will
you go through the unmarked door on your right
(furn to 110)?

246
The Sorcerer begins to laugh. ‘And now it doesn’t
matter what clever defences you came armed with, for
your principal weapon is losing its power,’ Suddenly
he stops and thinks, ‘But how can this be? Nothing I
have learned would indicate that this is possible — it is
just an absorber, a conduit for the power of others,’

Will you now change your look to one of confidence,
telling the Sorcerer that he is right and that you
should have known better than to try fooling him
(turn to 4), or carry on looking nervous, but say
nothing (turn to 209)?

247
‘It’s me,’ you say, and give him your name. You then
hand him the keys and tell him he can now take his
revenge on the Dark Elves (regain 1 Luck point).

‘It will be a pleasure,’ he says grimly, then he smiles. ‘It
is an old Dwarf custom to give a rescuer a gem ora
piece of jewellery, but this Ring of Three Centuries is
248-249

all the Dark Elves left me with.’ He removes a silver band
fom round his finger and gives it to you. ‘May I suggest
that you now seek out and destroy the Sorcerer who
leads the Dark Elves. Unless he is removed from the
arena, | fear that we will not be able to defeat them.’ He
points along the road towards the part of the city where
most of the building work is going on. ‘Go down there a
good distance until you come to a fenced pathway on
your left. Follow this to an archway in the cavern wall.
Once you are through, keep your eyes down and fallow
the walkway, avoiding all turns until you come to
another archway. Through there is the Sorcerer.’

You promise Arneggur that you will do what is
needed or die in the attempt. Then you leave him and
walk along the road. When you get to the fenced
pathway, you turn and follow it. Turn to 280

248
You make a wild guess at the password, You speak
the word in a clear voice and wait. A few moments
pass; nothing happens. If you wish to guess again,
turn back to 2. Otherwise, will you:

Search for an opening mechanism? Turn to 7§
Smash the door with your sword (if

you have one)? Turn to 136
Give up? Turn to 349

249
Now that he is dead, you look at the body of the
mutated impostor. In some ways, it is familiar: like a

250-251

Dark EIf, perhaps; in others it is like nothing you have
ever seen. You retrieve your Council Ring and then
search through his belongings. His pack contains 5
Gold Pieces and three small bottles. They are labelled:
‘1: Dried Chameleonite Blood’, ‘2: Condensed Mist
from the Méithrir Forest’, and ‘7: Pickled Whole
Shapechanger Brain’. They are clearly components of
some magical process, but you don’t know what. You
pick up your bow and arrows and return to the
Council Chamber. Turn to 291,

250

You draw your sword and leap forward to attack the
Dark EIf, hoping to take him by surprise. But he is one
of the Sorcerer’s elite Personal Guard and has lightning
reactions.

ELITE DARK ELF SKILL 10 STAMINA 8

lf you win, you drag his body on to the walkway and
drop it over the side. Then you walk back up to the
archway and go through the door. Turn to 103.

251

After you have been walking for an hour or so you
notice several black shapes silhouetted against the
night sky, some way ahead. You realize almost immedi-
ately that they are Black Flyers. There is nowhere for
you to run to: but they are creatures of the night and
saw you long before you saw them. As they swoop
down towards you, you realize that your adventure is
OveT
«(Peers

Do MOT ENTER

252-253

252

There are more roughly erased tracks in here, although
they are more difficult to make out in the darkness.
You follow them to the back of the cave, where you
find a mine shaft descending deep into the ground.
There are also several lanterns hanging on hooks on
the wall, so you take one and light it. With the extra
light you can now see a rickety wooden cage sus-
pended above the shaft; a rope, used to pull it down
into the mine, is probably attached to a counterweight.
You step into the cage and pull on the rope.

At the bottom of the mine shaft, the trail heads off
down a large tunnel, leading eventually to a shallow
pool of still water, where the footprints end. There are
three tunnels on the far side of the pool, two of which
are full of strange fungi. The third tunnel, which is
empty, has more footprints, presumably the continua-
tion of the trail. Which tunnel will you take:

The left-hand one? Turn to 149

The middle one? Turn to 208

The right-hand one? Turn to 292
253

As the monster charges at you and the ground trembles
beneath its feet, you draw your sword and prepare to
do battle. It probably weighs several tonnes, and you
are but a puny human, waiting to be crushed beneath

its bulk.
BLACK MAMMOTH SKILL 12 STAMINA 15

At any time during this combat you may collapse on
254-256

to the ground and pretend to be dead (turn to 84), If
you kill the monster, you slide your sword back into
its scabbard and resume your journey towards Sardath
(turn to 165).

254
Since the Giant Stag Beetle is a huge, lumbering
creature, you can get in three shots before it reaches
you. If all three arrows hit, the Beetle crashes to the
ground, dead (turn to 308). Otherwise, make a note of
how many do, so that you will be able to deduct the
appropriate number’ of points from the Beetle’s
STAMINA if you fight it. For now, the Beetle is still
alive and thundering towards you — you must act
Wilk you use your last second to dodge out of its way
(turn to 60) or draw your sword and prepare to fight
(turn to 283)?

255
You plummet towards the icy water of Lake Sardmere

and the impact knocks all the breath out of you.
Suddenly you see six or seven Black Flyers diving
towards you. You try diving and swimming away;
after they have swooped past you a few times, slashing
at you with their swords, you cannot prevent yourself
from sinking Your adventure is over,

256
A huge booming voice comes from nowhere: ‘Istu! So
you are released, You were to remain in your puzzle
until I was returned to the Abyss.’ Istu roars and raises
his talons, ‘If you want to fight,’ says the voice, ‘so be

257-259

t! I, Pnea, the Eleventh Veiled Guardian, will destroy
you and damn you to another period of imprisonment

wn the mortal world.’ Istu lashes out; the two demons
aight

PNEA SKILL 11 STAMINA 17

Resolve the battle, remembering to deduct points from
istu’S STAMINA score since he is directly engaged in
combat If Istu wins the battle, turn to 363. If Pnea
wins, he will turn on you, rending you to pieces in
seconds since you do not have a magic weapon,

257
Now that you know your natural fitness and strength

will carry you up the steep slope, you actually enjoy
che exercise. Nevertheless, when you get to the top of
che pass, the mountains on either side look as formida-
ole as ever, and there is still no way you could climb
them. Will you go back into the Dwarf mine (turn to
36) or carry on north-west down the other side of the
pass (turn to 133)?

258
As you fumble for the sword in the roots of the plant,
a thick, honey-like substance drips on to your hand. You
curse your stupidity as you realize that this is a Death
Dripper and the fluid which has landed on your hand is a
fast-acting contact poison, Your adventure is over,

259
You lunge forward with your sword, and its blade
strikes deeply into the black robe, Instead of the figure
260—261

falling or fighting back, however, the robe collapses
and falls to the ground, empty. A voice comes from
behind you: ‘Let us fight then, adventurer.” You tum.
Standing before you is a tall woman in bright silver
armour. She has long silver hair and her silver sword is
sheathed in lightning. ‘I am Thyra Migurn, Mistress of
Sukh’s Tower, and I welcome your challenge.’ With
that, she attacks you

THYRA MIGURN SKILL 10 STAMINA 12

You may yield to her at any time by turning to 315. If
you beat her, turn to '226.

260

‘There is no one of that name living anywhere within
my range, says the voice. For a moment you are
puzzled, but then you remember that Sorrel was called
Eledom Falestien among his own people, so you try
that. When the voice gives precisely the same reply as
before, you have no choice but to assume that Sorrel
is dead. While you are recovering from this terrible
shock, the smooth, cultured voice says dispassionately,
‘To whom do you wish to speak?’ Turn back to 99 and
make another choice.

261
You draw your arm back and throw the Sphere into
the middle of the group. For one heart-stopping
second, nothing happens, then it erupts into a deafen-
ing storm of fire and lightning. You clap your hands
over your eyes and leap out into the corridor. After
just a second or two, the storm is over and you re-

LY ees—i‘isSsCSRH

262

enter the room. Everything has been destroyed: the
beds, the statues and the Dark Elves. All that is left is
2 line grey powder covering the floor, There are no
other exits from here and nothing remains for you to
search, so you go back down the corridor to the two
doors. After a few seconds’ thought, you go through
she one on your left (tun to 109),

262

As the last Black Flyer hits the ground, you hear glass
smashing. When you see smoke pouring from some-
thing on his belt, you dive for cover. There is a loud
explosion and a cloud of smoke. When you look up,
the bodies of the two black creatures have been blown
'O pieces, so that even their swords are destroyed.
You get up and walk across to the mound and examine
the door. It is just as you saw it from a distance — cold,
neavy stone, covered with lichen — only now you can
see that something is engraved on its surface: ‘Here
within lie the remains of Khornu Wych, Seer and
Visionary. Whosoever desecrates this tomb shall be
naunted by my spirit and destroyed.’ This is quite a
threat. Nevertheless something vital must be inside
this tomb, otherwise your secret enemy wouldn’t be
so desperate for it; it is up to you to break into the
tomb and get this thing before they do.

if you think you may know the password and wish
to try it, turn to 2. Otherwise, will you search for
an opening mechanism (turn to 7§) or, if you have
one, break down the door with your sword (turn to
136)?

263-264

263

‘l have a great range of potions,’ he tells you, ‘although
some are in limited supply.’ He reaches into the wagon
and produces a placard with a list of the prices. ‘The
Love Potions are excellent value, and very effective,
though J don’t suppose you are in need of such things.
The Sleeping Draught is potent, but it does tend to
make you a bit hyperactive once it has worn off, And
then there are my special commodities, I'm afraid that
the last four items on the list are very rare, so I only
have one of each. I suppose I ought to apologize for
their cost as well — but, as I said, they are very
special.’ Buy what you wish from the list and deduct
the appropriate number of Gold Pieces from your
Adventure Sheet, After making your purchases, you bid
the man farewell and carry on down the road. Turn to
130.

264

You hold your breath to keep out the spores, but you
are not quick enough and they get into your throat,
burning your lungs as you run down the tunnel
(deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA). The fungus
comes to an end after a little way and you reach an
area illuminated by torches, There are two tough-look-
ing Dwarfs standing guard here, but they don’t seem
to be at all aggressive. ‘Welcome, human,’ one of them
says. ‘Would you please follow us, You are the first
human we have seen for many days, so Lokimur is
sure to want to see you immediately,’

The Dwarfs lead you through the convoluted tunnels

265

of what looks more like an underground settlement
than a mine, eventually bringing you to a chamber
where an important-looking Dwarf sits behind a large
stone desk. ‘I am Lokimur, son of Bakulor, leader of
this band of refugee Dwarfs in these dangerous and
hasty times.’ He hands you a beautifully fashioned Red
Gem, ‘A gift,’ he says, “To thank you for braving the
mountains to come to us — whoever you are.’ Will
you tell him briefly that you are an adventurer seeking
help in finding and destroying the Black Flyers (turn to
306) or give him your name and say that you are an
adventurer from Grinimund in the Forest of the Night,
travelling under orders from the Grimmund Council
(turn to 331)?

265
Roll two dice. Add together the numbers rolled, and
then modify the result depending on what day it is:

Moonday deduct 5
Windsday add 1
Seaday add 3

If the result is greater than your sKILL, tum to 386. If
the result is less than or equal to your sk1LL, the boat
bobs about on the waves like a cork but you fight as
hard as you know how to control it. Several times you
nearly capsize, then, gradually, the storm lessens and
you finally make it back in one piece. It is clearly
useless trying to get to Sardath so, with some reluc-
tance, you tum your back on the town. Following
either your dream or some other clue, you head north
into the mountains. Turn to 81,

266

266
He sees that you are deadly serious in your warning
and thanks you for the advice (regain 1 Luck point).
You tell him what happened to you in Grimmund and
all about the mission it has led you to undertake.

He is clearly impressed. ‘Merchants like me owe much
to adventurers like you,’ he comments. He reaches
back into his wagon and takes from it a thick book,
‘Since you are likely to go underground, you may
need this.’ The book is called Fangnir's Encyclopasstia of
Subterranean Flora. \t contains a lot of very detailed
information about the fungi and moulds which grow
underground, As far as your mission is converned, the
most important page is that entitled ‘Dangerous Fungi’.
If ever you wish to read it, make a note of the
paragraph you are reading at the time, then turn to
paragraph 243

You thank Fangnir for his generosity; you are sure the
book will be invaluable. He bids you farewell and
trundles away

You are now forced to continue on foot. Sure that the
enemy cannot lie any further to the east, will you head
north into the mountains (turn to 357), or west towards
Sardath (turn to 232)?

267=268

267

You take great care as you walk through the Forest
Even though there are no giant webs to look out for,
there is still the threat of attack by a Giant Wolf
Spider, After a couple of hours you find a patch of
anaesthetic moss. You collect as much as you can
without destroying the plant (add 2 Herbs) and then
set off again.

In the late afternoon, you arrive at Colrhyn’s cottage
having seen no sign of any Giant Spiders. You go up
to the front door and knock. There is no answer, so
you go in. You search the whole place, but Colrhyn is
nowhere to be found and there are no clues as to
where he might be, You decide to press on with your
mission, setting off north-west up the track which
leads from his cottage. Turn to 192.

4

268

You take the torch and walk to the centre of the
magical diagram. As you stand there, holding the
torch high above your head, the chanting grows louder
and the flame turns cold and blue, When the chant
gets faster and more frenzied, you gradually feel your
life force beginning to flow into the torch where the
Dark Elves can direct its power, and then you lose
consciousness. Your adventure is over.

269-270

269

You walk down to the harbour and find your boat. It
takes only a few minutes to set sail, and then your
quest begins. With the sun shining across the fields,
the first few kilometres make a pleasant — if somewhat
chilly — start to the day. As your joumey progresses,
however, the tall pines close in on the Grimway. Of
course, you don’t fear the Forest’s shadowy atmos-
phere, but there do seem to be more eyes peering at
you than you remember, and the background noise of
unknown creatures is closer to the river.

Towards midday, you reach the point where the rope-
bridge should be, but it has been torn down from the
east bank and is lying in the river. Will you try to
Manoeuvre round it (fun to 137), land on the west
bank and walk along the forest trail which goes north-
west (turn to 8), or land on the east bank and walk
north-east through the pathless forest beside the river
(turn to 342)?

270
He laughs. ‘A nice bluff, adventurer, But you forget: I
have made a lifelong study of these things.’ He sighs,
‘l weary of this futile conversation.’

Realizing that he is going to attack, you draw your
sword as swiftly as you can
271-272

‘Faeleorn rath mardex.’

When you run at him, you crash into a wall of
impenetrable force and stumble backwards, stunned.
The Sorcerer raises his staff, spraying you with a
viscous jet of life-sapping darkness. Your adventure is
over,

271
Morn charges towards the window and takes a flying
leap. He crashes through the glass, spreads his huge
black wings and flies off into the night sky. You run
after him, grabbing your bow on the way, but he is
already too far away for you to stand any chance of
hitting him. You curse — he still has your Council
Ring, There’s nothing you can do about that now, so
you return to the Council Chamber to tell the rest of
the Council what you have learned. Turn to 2gr.

272
The very instant your arrow hits Sorrel, he lets out a
horrific, piercing scream. His scar vanishes and his skin
darkens to an inky black colour. One of the Elves
shouts, ‘Dark EIfl’ and they all attack him. In seconds,
the creature is dead.

272

When the excitement has died down, Bistort, an Elf
Commander, explains. ‘Dark Elves have somehow ac-
quired the ability to assume any form they wish I am
afraid that, rather than looking after the paths, we
have spend all our energies in seeking them out and
destroying them, Dark Elves are our oldest and most
despised enemy.’ He laughs hollowly. ‘We nearly killed
you because we thought you were one.’ Bistort hands
you a Seven-coiled Snake Ring, ‘Please accept this
token with our apologies for misjudging you!’

Suddenly a shout comes from the tall look-out tree
above you, and you both climb up, From above the
Forest treetops, you can make out two black shapes
silhouetted against the night sky, flying south-west.
Eventually, they swoop down somewhere to the east
of the village

‘Sorrel was in charge of tracking the Black Flyers,’
Bistort informs you, ‘He said he had seen them and
that they were not Dark Elves. That was clearly a lie, I
will dispatch a tracking party at once.’ If you decide to
track them yourself, you tell Bistort of your intentions,
climb down the tree, and set off into the Forest (turn
to 168). Otherwise, you decide to stay in Ash Cleeve
for the night {turn to 360).

~

273-274

273

When you get closer, the two Obligaths seem to
recognize you and start sniffing at your clothes. The
transformation potion must have given you the right
smell, because their spines relax against their scales
and they start nuzzling up against you. You are
nervous of them at first, but they don’t seem to mean
you any harm, so you pat them. However, they are
still showing no sign of letting you through. Will you
push past them (turn to 378), feed them some Herbs
(turn to 73), or try to beat your way through with
your sword (tum to 333)?

274
At that moment, a Dwarf guard comes into the room

and hurries over to Lokimur. Begging your pardon,
Leader, I realize that you are giving counsel, but |
believe your presence is urgently required. We are
again under attack from the Toa-Suo.’

Lokimur tells the Dwarf that he will be there in a
moment and then turns to you, ‘Will you stay and
help us?’ If you reply that you would be honoured,
turn to 74

If you say that your mission is too urgent, Lokimur
says that he quite understands and he wishes you
good luck. Once he has left to attend to the Toa-Suo
attack, the Dwarf guard escorts you out of the mine,
warning you to hold your breath before you go
through the fungus tunnel. When you arrive back at
the surface, he leads you to the south-east side of the
pass. ‘Go down this way,’ he says, ‘for the Toa-Suo

275-276

army are on the north side of the mountain,’ You
thank him for his advice and begin the descent. You
soon reach the bottom of the slope and find yourself
back on the main path. Will you now go north-east
towards the spire-shaped mountain {tum to 323) or
south-west towards the river (turn to 240)?

275
As you reach out for the shield, a wild, horrific

screaming fills the cavern and you see a creature
forming in its silvery metallic surface: it’s a screaming,
slashing woman with four arms and four heads. You
smash your sword into the shield in an attempt to stop
her getting through but only succeed in denting it. Soon
the form is complete and her long nails are slashing at
you, barely missing your face, before you realize that
she has materialized into the treasure chamber. If Istu is
with you, multiply his number by 10, then turn to the
paragraph with that number. Otherwise you must fight
the Mirror Demon. She is too close for you to use your
bow, so you attack her with your sword.

MIRROR DEMON

If she wins an Attack Round, tum immediately to 6. If
you defeat her, turn to 7o.

SKILL 8 STAMINA 10

276
You follow the stream south until it meets a wide
slow-moving river. Where the river comes in from the
east, the water is clear and clean. But after the junction
with the stream, where the river turns south, the plant
276

life has grown out of all control, completely choking
the water with weeds. You press on, following the
river south, until night falls. You are not far from
Sardath now, so you do not rest. When you are about
half way round the eastem edge of the Freezeblood
Wall, you hear a strange noise like a thousand giant
birds flying overhead. You dive for cover behind a
large boulder, then peer out to see what is causing all
the noise. After a few moments an army of Black
Fiyers appears over the mountains, silhouetted against
the night sky. They are flying towards Sardath. Re-
lieved that you are hidden from their view, you decide
to huddle into the side of the boulder and get what
sleep you can.

You sleep fitfully all night, and you wake up in the
moming hardly refreshed at all {tick off the next day
on your Adventure Sheef). If today is Highday, turn to
50. If it is not, the sky is only just beginning to lighten
into the blue of the pre-dawn when you see the Black
Flyers leaving Sardath and flying north over the Freeze-
blood Wall. Will you go after them (tum to 16) or
carry on south to the Fangthane road and follow it
into Sardath (turn to 293)7

277

277
When the Dark Elf coming up from the right reaches
the junction, he stops and salutes you, You copy his
action. ‘Valethion, Chaugh,’ he says, but then stops
himself, ‘I apologize,’ he says. ‘I forgot we must speak
Allansian,’

Quite severely, you tell him that a slip like that could
cost him his life, and that it is not enough to look
human, you must also act and speak like one. By this
time the other Dark EIf has arrived. ‘Lord Chaugh,’ he
says, saluting you. You return the gesture. ‘How did
you get out of the Games Room?’ he asks. Thinking
very quickly, you tell him that you discovered a secret
door into the Laboratory by manipulating one of the
puzzles,

‘We should report back with this information,’ says the
first Dark EIf ‘I nearly forgot, the knocking sequence
has been changed. It’s now six, one, five, seven, eight.’
They both salute you and set off up the tunnel to the
right. It sounds as if there are a lot of Dark Elf warriors
in the tunnel to the right and you can’t afford to take
part in any unnecessary combat, so you decide to go
to the left. Turn to 7x.

278-279

278
Inside the bundle are six ivory squares; each is of
beautifully smooth workmanship, with delicate carving
The engraved fines are filled with a black pigment,
which makes them stand out vividly. From the strange
shapes that the lines form, you can tell that this is
some kind of puzzle, but there is no indication of how
to solve it. While you still have the ivory squares, you
may unlock their secret at any time. Whenever you
want to re-examine them, return to this paragraph,
first making a note of the paragraph you have come
from. Once you have solved the puzzle, it should
become clear how to proceed,

279
The book is a huge volume entitled The Researches of
Thalion Lorasse. It is far too large for you to read now;
anyway, most of it would be useless to a warrior Sike
yourself. However, one of the pages is marked. You
open the book and begin to read. One section in
particular catches your attention:

THE APPARATUS: The Triplex Potion Concocter
is used for making potions which require two solid
components and one liquid, The liquid component
is always poured into the first thistle furnel, and the
powder into the second funnel. The third compo-
nent, which will be a solid in a larger form, should
be put into the third, much larger funnel

You may have some items which could be used in the
making of potions, so you memorize these instructions
Should you find such a machine later in your adventure,

280

you may be able to concoct something useful. Tum
back to 166 and make another choice,

280
The fenced pathway carries you right through the
weirdly constructed city, past enclosed squares with
towers standing at strange angles and streets whose
only purpose is to confuse. Everything is carved with
images of malevolent-looking Dark Elves. The fence is
unbroken for the entire length of the pathway, so you

281

have no access to the city — but you realize with some
relief that this also means that the bizarre city has no
access to you! Eventually you reach the wall of the
cavern, some way beneath the balcony. There is an
archway here, leading to a short tunnel. It is very low
and narrow, and you have to stoop to get through,
However, it soon emerges into the bottomless cavern,
and you lower your gaze to avoid the wild architecture
The flimsy walkway you are now on is slippery with
moss, so you walk very carefully; but it soon widens
and becomes dry again, After a few more metres, you
come to a junction. Will you go right (turn to 370) or
carry straight on (turn to 477)?

281
The tunnel soon emerges on to a walkway, lit by the
dim light of the bottomless cavern, and you lower
your gaze to avoid the insane architecture The walk-
way feels even higher than the others you have been
on, although you don’t dare look down to see if your
feeling is accurate. Another archway at the end leads
to a corridor. Now that you are in a more enclosed

282

space, you feel shielded from the insane character of
the bottomless cavern, Tentatively at first, but then
more confidently, you look around at your surround-
ings. A few metres to your left, there is a door at the
end of the corridor, On your right, the corridor goes
for about ten metres to an archway. Will you go left
and through the door (tum to 205) or right and
through the archway (turn to 348)?

282
‘Dark Elves?’ screams Thyra, her voice echoing round
the mountain. There is a bright flash, followed by a crack
of thunder, and you are momentarily blinded. T loathe
and detest these sorcerous delvers into the ground’

Test your Luck. lf you are Unlucky, a bolt of lightning
hits you (roll one die and deduct that many points
from your STAMINA). If you are Lucky, it all misses
Once the fury has died down and your vision is
restored, you see that everything she was wearing has
been annihilated. Her body is now cloaked in a blaze
of light; sparks fly from her, causing licks of lightning
in the sky. She looks at you with menace.

‘What do you want with Dark Eives?’ she asks. You
tell her about your mission. “You will need power,’ she
says, and a small silver sphere appears in her hand; she
gives it to you, “You may use the Lightning Sphere
only against the darkest of Dark Elves; the ball itself
will tell you when.’ You open your mouth to thank
her, but she holds up a fiery hand, ‘Go,’ she says, ‘for
my temper is not to be trusted.’ Having seen her in
full fury, you leave without delay.

283

A short time later, you find yourself at the path at the
foot of the mountain, relieved to have made it back
alive. Turn to 298.

283
As the Beetle’s huge bulk comes thundering towards
you, its antler-shaped jaws twitching, you plant your
feet squarely and prepare yourself for battle.

GIANT STAG BEETLE SKILL 9 STAMINA 6
If you win, turn to 308.
) -)

~~

——
me
2

— a “.-
_—s a]
= SS

hte

“

we

a
J

‘
i

i

i)

h lps J {

284-285

284

Roxsir leads you through many tunnels and you even-
tually come out on a ledge above a north-facing cliff.
You lean over the parapet and see the huge army of
Toa-Suo climbing up. The Dwarfs are trying to repel
them by hurling rocks at them. Without delay, you
join in. You may be larger than the Dwarfs, but they
have the advantage of a lifetime of mine work, so they
are much stronger than you are, and you have to work
yourself to the limit. Even then, you are not able to
keep up; so many Toa-Suo manage to get up the cliff
that the axe warriors cannot handle them and you are
forced to fight one.

TOA-SUO SKILL 6 STAMINA 9

If you win, you return to the arduous job of rock
hurling. Towards the end of the day, the Toa-Suo
retreat to the north, having failed to breach the mine's
defences. As you watch them go, a terrible exhaustion
grips you (deduct 4 STAMINA points). If you don’t
collapse and expire from overexertion, you follow the
other Dwarfs as they traipse back into the tunnels.
Turn to 322.

285
After an hour or so of hard scrambling, you stop for a
rest. Above you, the top of the pass is capped by a
thick covering of snow; nevertheless, you must press
on. Once you reach the snowline you find that it is
almost knee deep and gets deeper the further you go.
Just as you are getting to the top, there is movement
in the snow all round you, and a whole tribe of
286-287

Toa-Suo rise from their hiding places. They are all over
two metres tall and nearly as wide, with thick coats of
white fur. Against one or two of them you might have
stood a chance, but not against an army. Your adven-
ture is over

286

Not long after nightfall and just after you have settled
yourself down, you spot an army of Black Flyers
coming down the valley from the north-west, heading
towards Sardath. Glad that you have stopped and
hidden yourself, you pull your blankets close around
you and try to get some sleep. Your camp is not
exactly comfortable but it is dry and out of the icy
wind, so you should be able to rest quite well.

Next morning you wake up cold and stiff (tick off the
next day on your Adventure Sheet). If today is Highday.
turn to §0. If it is not, you drag yourself to your feet
and do a few vigorous exercises to get your body
going, Then, after some breakfast, you set off, As the
morning wears on, the huge, isolated mountain actually
looks as if it is getting nearer; this is a boost to your
morale, but it also means that the ground will soon be
getting steeper. Towards midday, you begin to climb
the mountain itself, Turn to 318.

287
Because you are human, the Dark Elf coming up from
the left shouts a warning as soon as he reaches the
junction. You both draw your swords, and a fierce
battle ensues. This Dark Elf is a strong and skilful

:

288-289

warrior and, by the time you have gained the upper
nand ten or eleven more Dark EIf warriors have
arrived. You fight valiantly but there are just too many.
Your adventure is over.

288

ir you ever change your mind and decide to take a
look at your surroundings, make a note of the number
of the paragraph you are reading at the time, then turn
to 153 (make a note of this number for future refer-
ence). For now, you walk tentatively along the walkway,
keeping your eyes on the path just in front of you. It
is unnerving not knowing where you are going, but
you force yourself to walk on. Eventually the walkway
meets another, Will you go left (turn to 358) or right
turn to 112)?

289
As soon as you lift the amulet from around Khornu’s
neck, the body begins to crack and crumble as several
centuries of decay catch up with it. If you decide to
make your escape from the crypt before the process
has finished, turn to 12. If you do not, a few moments
pass and then there is nothing left but a fine layer of
dust on the floor. Suddenly an icy wind blows up out
of nowhere, penetrating through to your very bones,
A faint light appears inside the sarcophagus, and an
awe-inspiring figure forms within: it is the Ghost of
Khornu Wych. Rol] two dice, If the total is less than or
equal to your sKILL, tum to 214. If the total is greater
than your SKILL, tum to 316
290-291

290

You reach over to grab Fangnir’s tunic, but the ground
rocks again and you are thrown into the back of the
wagon, Fangnir slumps forward out of your reach, and
you are forced to leap off without him. You hit the
ground heavily, roll, and turn to look to the wagon.
The monster which caused the eruption is a many-
armed, writhing creature with hard, shiny scales. Its
massive tentacles have burst through the road and are
now dragging the Dwarf, his wagon and all his goods
into its cavernous mouth. Suddenly Fangnir comes to
his senses; he screafns for help. Will you leap up to
fight the Chthonian Trapper (turn to 43) or leave the
Dwarf to his fate (turn to 376)?

291

Grissa reconvenes the Council to discuss what you are
going to do. The Councillors listen in respectful silence
while you tell them about the imposter. ‘Now you
have no choice but to believe in my dark enemy. I
would love to march through the Forest with an army
and wipe this enemy out, but Mom told me himself
that this is precisely what he came here to achieve.
The Forest is now so contaminated with evil that we
would never make it through.’ The Council members
accept your plan to go alone but insist that you wait
for daylight and use the few remaining hours of
darkness to recuperate. Grissa sends you some food
and a Healer to tend any wounds you may have
(regain up to 6 STAMINA points).

Once the sun is up (tick off the first day on your

292

Adventure Sheet), you gather together your equipment
and leave the Council Hall. Most of the Councillors
have gone to their beds after all-night discussions,
but Grissa is there to see you off. She gives you a
tour-leaf clover, ‘For luck,’ she says. You thank her and
say farewell. If you visit the town astrologer before
leaving Grimmund, turn to 231. Otherwise, turn to

390.

292

The tunnel goes on for a long way, twisting and
turning, and eventually you lose all sense of direction,
but still the trail of footprints leads you on. At last the
tunnel comes to an end in a small cavern, The trail
peters out here, but you enter anyway. Once in, you
stop and stare, momentarily confused: you are back at
the bottom of the mine shaft where you came in. If
you want to retrace your footsteps to the cavern with
the pool and the three tunnels, turn back to 252 and
choose another option. If you give up looking around
and leave the mine, you step into the cage and haul
yourself up the shaft.

You are standing once again on the top of the moun-
tain pass. Since the mountains on either side of the
pass are too sheer for you to climb, you will have to
descend again. If you go down the north-west side of
the pass, turn to 133. If you go back down the south-
east side, you eventually get back to the main track.
Will you now go north-east (turn to 323) or south-
west (turn to 240)?
Ay

gy
oh

wih

ute _ $ pry
‘ Neen Nees ey . ya ete

sie sie

iQ HELPS Ny i

2937295

293
Sardath, built on stilts over Lake Sardmere, is the

sading centre of the Freezeblood Mountains and the
Forest of Night, Built centuries ago by the rough men
and Dwarfs who came to this region to exploit its
many resources, Sardath has become an important
outpost in the spread of civilization throughout north-
em Allansia. As you walk along the road, it looks as if
all this might come to nothing. The whole of Lake
Sardmere is shrouded by a strange swirling storm,
with the town at its centre; from what you can see,
Sardath itself looks completely dead. The bridge that
crosses the lake has been destroyed and most of the
doats have been wrecked. If today is Fireday, turn to
127. If it is Earthday, turn to 154. Otherwise, turn to
184

294

After a few minutes, the eyes vanish beneath the
water, You look around but can see no sign of where
she creature went, Towards midday, you ready your
Dow again, for you are entering Slykk territory. The
reeds here are denser than ever and it is difficult to
xeep your boat in clear water. While you are manoeuv-
ring through a particularly narrow channel, a group
of the slimy frog-people rise out of the reeds on either
side of you, spears raised. Turn to 67.

295
I've already been there, you tell Arneggur, ‘And |

can’t return, because they think I have gone up to
Corianthus’s castle to join someone called Duke Pilea.
296

If I were to go there again, they would become
suspicious. 1 understand how much you desire your
freedom, but if I am killed many more will become
slaves.’

‘You are right, of course,’ he says. Tt's just that we
could do so much, Still, all is not lost. If you can destroy
the Sorcerer, the resulting disorder might give us a
chance to rise up and free ourselves.’ He points along
the road towards the part of the city where most of the
building work is going on. ‘Go down there for several
hundred metres until you come to a fenced pathway on
your left. Follow this to an archway in the cavern wall.
Once you are through, keep your eyes down and
follow the walkway, avoiding all turns until you come
to another archway. Through there is the Sorcerer.’

You promise Ameggur that you will do what is
needed or die in the attempt. He smiles, slaps you on
the back, and stands, watching, as you set off along
the road. When you get to the fenced pathway, you
turn and follow it. Tur to 280.

206

You leave the Eagle's body behind and carry on up
the mountain beside the rushing, yellow stream. After
an hour or so, you reach a rocky crag and a small cave
out of which the stream is flowing. When you look
into the cave, you see that in fact it is a narrow tunne!
going deep into the mountain. A path runs along, this
tunnel, and the stream flows beside it. Will you follow
the tunnel (turn to 126) or leave this place and keep
on walking up the mountain (turn to 388)7

297-299

297

seeing his companion felled by a single arrow, the
second Slykk stops dead in his tracks. This gives you
ame — if you want to and if you have one — to nock
znother arrow and point it at him (turn to 380). If you
aon’t have another arrow, or if you don’t wish to do
cnis, you sling your bow over your shoulder and draw
your sword. Seeing this, the Slykk’s courage returns
and he resumes his charge. Turn to 234.

298

Nothing you have learned so far points either to the
south or to the east, and the mountains lying to the
north of here are impassable to someone of your
mexperience, so you decide to follow the mountain
srail south-west, This leads you down a gently descend-
‘ng valley, with the sheer mountains to the north and
a long ridge to the south. After a long walk, your
path crosses a track going north-west up a steep slope
cowards a mountain pass. It doesn’t look like an easy
route, but it is not beyond your capabilities. If you
carry on south-west, turn to 240. If you go north-west
up to the pass, do you have a Red Gem (turn to 257)
or not (turn to 108)?

299
Your renowned luck saves you again as you land on
the back of one of the Black Flyers, though with such
force that he is knocked out of control. You both
dlummet. For a moment there is a rush of noise as you
crash through the trees; then you hit the ground, The
impact kills the Black Flyer outright, but his body
cushions your fall. Roll one die and deduct that many
400

points from your sTAMINA. Before you is a small
mound, in the front of which is a stone door, covered
with lichen. This must be the place the creatures were
making for. Suddenly you remember that two of them
are still in the sky above you. You look up and can
just see their silhouettes against the stars. lulien is
flying back to his Sorcerer to tell him of his success,
but the other one is descending. In seconds he lands
and walks towards you, drawing his sword. Even
though you still have your pack with your Herbs and
gold, you may have dropped your sword when you
were fighting with lulien in Grimmund. If you did so,
you must deduct 2 points from your Attack Strength.
Your bow and arrows are back in the Council Recess
Chamber,

BLACK FLYER
If you win, turn to 262,

SKILL 7 STAMINA 7

300
At that moment, a young Dark Elf comes running in,
holding a piece of paper. ‘Archduke Awlenion?’ he
asks.

One of the elite Guards saunters up to him and takes
the message ‘The slaves have broken free,’ he states
‘Tt will take only a couple of cohorts.’ For a few
minutes there is a lot of bustle as the warriors prepare
themselves and exit hastily to do battle. However, a
lot of them have stayed behind — obviously they don’t
see the Dwarfs as that much of a threat. Suddenly you
feel strange — the transformation potion is wearing off!

lc —“— eC

301~393

When he sees what is happening, one of the elite
Guards screams, ‘Human!’ and they all attack, You
right as best you can, but there are just too many of
them. Your adventure is over.

301
Walking in the mountains at night can be extremely
hazardous, even if you are an experienced mountaineer.
You know very little about the Freezeblood Moun-
‘ains, so you are almost sure to get lost. Roll one die.
If you roll:

sid Turn to 35

3-4 Turn to 107

5-6 Tum to 187
302

This stairway is as narrow and treacherous as any of
the previous walkways you have been on: you descend
it with an uneasy compromise between caution and a
desire not to arouse suspicion. At the bottom of the
stairway there is another walkway. Will you now go
right (turn to 77) or left (turn to 458)?

303
You examine the door very carefully, feeling across its
surface and round its edges, After a while, you work
out that it should slide to the left. When you try to
move the door sideways, however, it won't budge.
You search around again but are unable to find any
way of opening it. Will you:
394-305
Strike it with your sword (if you
have one)? Turn to 136
Try saying a password? Turn to 2
Give up? Turn to 349

304
You place the numbers on the puzzle and step back,
waiting to see what will happen. There is a sudden
flash and the whole table crumbles to dust. Whatever
the puzzle was for, you will never find out.

You look around for a while, experimenting with some
of the giant-sized games and puzzles, but nothing
happens, either good or bad, so you leave the Games
Room and retum to the Observatory. (Note: having
exhausted all the possibilities in this room, you may
not return here unless you are specifically instructed
to.) Will you now go through the door on your left
into the Library (turn to 166) or go straight on
through the unmarked door (turn to 110)?

395

You thank Jonnan for his help and ask him what he
intends to do now. ‘I am only a trader,’ he says, ‘so |
would be a hindrance to you. Anyway, I promised
that I would go to Fangthane to summon help. It’s a
long way, and we've already lost a day because Neya
was drowned. But at least it’s something.” You tell
Jonnan that indeed it is. Should your mission fail, there
is now a small hope that all may not be lost. Jonnan
sets off towards Gwinir's Bridge and you too must be
on your way; turn to 81.

306-307

306

A lock of anger clouds Lokimur’s face. ‘I understand
your urgency, young human, but there can be no
reason for completely abandoning common courtesy. |
know that humans are by their nature a hasty folk, but
I would have thought that anybody arriving at a new
place would introduce themselves with the appropriate
... Your mind wanders as Lokimur proceeds to give
you a lengthy lecture on the etiquette of getting
counsel from Dwarfs. When his tone begins to mellow,
you start paying more attention. ‘Therefore,’ he says, ‘I
will relent from what would be my normal, somewhat
violent course of action, and give you whatever help I
can, Now then...” Turn to 274,

307
At that moment, a young Dark Elf comes running in,
holding a piece of paper. ‘Archduke Awlenion?’ he
asks.

One of the elite Guards saunters up to him and takes
the message. “The slaves have broken free. It will only
take a couple of cohorts,’ he says. For a few minutes
there is a lot of bustle as the warriors prepare them-
selves, and run excitedly to battle. However, a lot of
them have stayed behind — obviously they don’t see
the Dwarfs as that much of a threat. Suddenly you feel
strange — the transformation potion is wearing off!
When he sees what is happening, one of the elite
Guards screams, ‘Human!’ and they all attack, You
fight as best you can, but there are just too many of
them. Your adventure is over
308-310

308

You rest for a few moments, perhaps ireating yourself
with some of your Herbs. Then you set off again.
After a couple of hours’ steady walking, you catch a
glint of light coming from the trees ahead. As you
approach, you can see that the sun is striking some-
thing at the base of a strange shrub, which is about
three metres tall with a wide, thick-barked trunk and
palm-like fronds, interspersed with yellow star-shaped
flowers, As you get closer, you see that it is a sword,
entangled in its roots, that is glinting. If you try to get
the weapon out, turn to 140. If you prefer not to, you
leave it and carry on north-west. Some hours later, as
the sun is beginning to set, you approach the fork in
the road where the Elf village is hidden among the
trees, Turn to 332.

309

In the instant that the Sorcerer is waiting for you to
succumb to his attack, you draw your sword and
lunge at him. But he is too quick for you: ‘Faeleorn
rath mardex.’

Before you reach him, you crash into a wall of impen-
etrable force and stumble backwards, stunned. The
Sorcerer raises his staff, spraying you with a viscous
‘et of life-sapping darkness. Your adventure is over.

it ay

310
You plummet down towards the river, screaming tn a
as Sie me Kee “ .4\ >, ca PNY Af mixture of fear and elation, Test your Luck. If you are
f ‘ oy We UR! Lucky, tum to 84. If you are Unlucky, turn to 4o,

311-312

311
The Dark Elf snatches the goblet from you and drains
it in a single swallow. Then he carries on laughing and
stuffing bits of meat into his face for a few minutes,
but soon his eyelids begins to droop and he collapses
into what looks like a drunken stupor. The Elf on your
right looks at the sleeping Dark EIf in disgust. ‘And he
always boasted that he could hold his drink.’ He
laughs and turns to you. “Take him over there and
throw him on one of the couches.’

After lifting the Elf across your shoulder, you carry
him away from the table and lay him down. Once the
other Dark Elves have forgotten about you and have
gone back to their gorging, you take the opportunity
to search through his belongings. You find 14 gold
coins and a large key with an ornate ‘S’ engraved on
it While you are putting these iterns in your pack, the
Dark EIf grunts — the Sleeping Draught is wearing off
You decide to leave before he wakes up. Tum to 29,

312
‘I see it now,’ he says. “You want me to make a mental
attack. But what possible reason could you have for
doing that?’ He ponders. ‘Of course — Khornu’s Attenu-
ation, turning the amulet from a mere shield to a
reflector, Then my attempts to obscure the efforts of
that cursed astrologer weren’t enough.’ He smiles. ‘But
it is of no matter, for now | know of your achievement.’
He pauses. ‘And I[ also know that you don’t possess
any secret magic’ You can tell he is going to attack,
so you draw your sword as swiftly as you can.

“4

313-314
‘Faeleorm rath mardex,’

When you run at him, you crash into a wail of
impenetrable force and stumble backwards, stunned.
The Sorcerer raises his staff, spraying you with a
viscous jet of life-sapping darkness. Your adventure is
over.

313
You watch and wait, willing the sailor to succeed but
not wanting to take any risk yourself. Suddenly a huge
gust of wind races across the water. The sails fill, and
the boat heels over; then a huge wave capsizes it. You
scan the raging surface of the lake for several minutes
but no one emerges. The sailor is lost.

You can see no other sign of life from Sardath, and
you realize that, if you want to make contact, you are
going to have to row all the way across in the boat
you found {tum to 345). If you decide against this
course of action, there is nothing more you can do
here: you decide to leave Sardath and head north into
the mountains, following your dream of the dark
army, and maybe other clues (turn to 81),

314
At that moment, a young Dark Elf comes running in,
holding a piece of paper. ‘Archduke Awlenion?’ he
asks

One of the elite Guards saunters up to him and takes
the message. When he reads it, he looks worried, ‘The
315

slaves have broken free, and we are being attacked by
Wood Elves, [ will need all four cohorts.’ The warriors
prepare themselves and run excitedly to battle. In just
a few minutes they are gone, except for one guard,

Suddenly you feel strange — the transformation potion
is wearing offf When he sees what is happening to
you, the elite Guard screams, ‘Human!’ and then at-
tacks, He is too quick for you to use your bow

ELITE DARK ELF SKILL 10 STAMINA 8

If you win, you hurry over to the door that has
‘SAUCRIERE’ carved on it. If you have an ‘S’ Key,
turn to 63. If you do not, turn to 86.

315
Reluctantly you lower yourself to your knees.

‘Now then, mortal,’ the creature says, ‘who are you
and what do you want with Thyra Migurn?’

You tell her that you are an adventurer from Grim-
mund in the Forest of Night.

‘You should have stayed in the Forest where you
belong.’ You can hear great fury in her voice, although
clearly she is trying to suppress it. If you apologize for
trespassing on her mountain and leave immediately,
she allows you to get back down to the path unharmed
(turn to 298). If you persist in talking to her, will you
ask her if there are any Dwarfs left alive in the
mountains (tur to 202) or ask her if she knows where
the Black Flyers come from (turn to 282)?

316-317

316
if you have a silver weapon of some kind, turn to 111
Otherwise, turn to 163

317
The apparatus bubbles furiously for a few minutes and
some parts of its complex tubing rattle and shake.
Eventually a clear liquid drips out of the end into a
small phial, Feeling some trepidation, you drink the
potion. You immediately experience an itching sensa-
tion and a tightness in your muscles. Various parts of
your body warp and twist, as if trying to transform
into something else, but no definite shape takes hold
Perhaps this is the very magic that the Dark Elves
have been using to impersonate other species, Sud-
denly you have an idea. Without wasting another
second, you min back through the Library and Observa-
tory into the Games Room, As soon as you see the
body of the Dark Elf, you feel a great pressure being
released. You are now one of them (whenever you
come to the phrase ‘because you are human’ do not
tead on: deduct 10 from the number of the paragraph
you are reading and turn immediately to the paragraph
with that number). However, for your disguise to
work, you will have to hide your twin’s bady, so you
decide to leave it in the Library If the Dark Elves
haven't got in there so far, it must be impregnable. As
you leave the Games Room and enter the Observatory,
the sunlight feels very hot on your skin, but you are

still essentially a human, so you reach the Library door
unharmed. Turn to 166,
318-320

318

You ascend the steepening mountainside for some
time, losing pace as the climbing gets harder until,
eventually, you are forced to rest. As you are gazing
up towards the mountain’s peak to see how far away
it still is, you become aware of a shadowy form in the
sky above you. Your thoughts tum immediately to the
Black Flyers. As the shape draws closer, however, you
realize that it is a Giant Eagle, flying straight towards
you. If you do something to show that you are
friendly, write down on your Adventure Sheet what
that is, then tum to 198. Otherwise, will you draw
your bow and shoot at it (turn to 17) or draw your
sword and attack it as it drops down to land (turn to
89)?

319

As soon as the Black Mammoth gets within range,
you loose an arrow at it. The monster stops in its
tracks, raises its trunk, and lets out a terrible bellow.
Test your Luck, adding 2 to the dice roll if your arrow
hit. If you are Unlucky, turn to 229 If you are Lucky,
the call is not answered, and the creature resumes its
charge; tum to 253, remembering to deduct 2 points
trom its STAMINA if your shot was successful,

420
Still a little sticky from the webs, you draw your
sword and thrust it towards the Spider's bulbous
oody.

GIANT SPITTING SPIDER skitto sTAMINA6

320

The Giant Spitting Spider is not as aggressive a hunter
as, say, the Giant Wolf Spider, so it will run away into
the trees if you survive long enough to reduce its
STAMINA to 2 points. If you do manage to drive it off,
there is nothing to be gained from following it, so you
lie down, curl up in your blankets, and drift back to
sleep. Turn to the paragraph whose number you wrote
in a circle on your Adventure Sheet.

ov

Bi

lef

ae CEE tf ‘

eae

321~322

321
Once again you hear a dull thud but the door does
not give; the stone is still not chipped. Will you:

Search for an opening mechanism? Turn to 75
Try saying a password? Tum to 2
Hit the door again? Tum to 387
Give up? Turn to 349

322

On the way down into the mine, you bump into
Roxsir, who is coming up to meet you. ‘Lokimur told
me to convey his apologies for not meeting you
personally, My orders are to find you decent quarters
and to show you some good old-fashioned Dwarf
hospitality.’ Some time later you are sat at a long
table, replete with a large meal and a quantity of
Owarfish ale. Despite a feeling of deep relaxation, you
tell your new friends that your mission is pressing and
that you must leave.

1 don’t think that would be very wise,’ says one of
them. ‘The Black Flyers rule the mountains at night.

=

323-324

There are patrols in the air continuously, and they
usually send a force to attack the mine — although
they are conducting a terror campaign rather than a
proper military assault.’

By this time everybody is getting ready to sleep, to
recover from the day’s fighting. You, too, are ex-
hausted, and the Dwarf’s advice is good, so you find
yourself an empty pallet to sleep on. Will you go up
to the duty officer and volunteer to take a watch
during the night (turn to 344) or settle straight down
to sleep (turn to 28)? .

323

As you walk towards the spire-shaped mountain, you
gaze up at its prodigious height and its peak, shrouded
by dark mist, From within these clouds come bright
lightning flashes and rumbles of thunder. It is an
awesome sight. By the time you reach the foot of the
mountain, you are beginning to realize just how fierce
the storm is. Surely nothing could live within that
unbridled fury? You continue up the steepening path,
but it ends abrupily after only some fifty metres. Will
you press on, trying to find your own way up (tum to
33), or go back down to the foot of the mountain (turn
to 298)?

324
Eventually the walkway leads you to an archway.
Unlike the other archways you have seen, this one has
a door in it — but one without any lock or handle to
open it. With a shrug, you give the door a push, but it

325

doesn’t budge. Instead, a small hole opens at about
head height. When the guard on the other side sees
you, he mutters something to himself, and you hear
the sound of bolts being drawn. Having opened the
door, he just stands there, leaning arrogantly against
the frame. ‘1 know you, he says, ‘It’s Lord Chaugh,
isn’t it? Oh yes, I remember now. You're stationed up
in the Giant’s castle with the other scum.’ He laughs.
Til just go and see if your name is on the list,” Will
you let him tur to go (turn to 31), ask him why he
has to check (turn to 58), or attack him (tum to 250)?

325
The river acts as a defence against the Giant Orb-Web
Spiders that live in the Forest to the west. They are
the reason that the Grimway takes such a roundabout
route. Having decided to brave the more direct route,
where there is no bridge, you untie your small boat
and row across the river, Once across, you set it adrift
— Spiders can’t row, but you don’t yet know what
other dangers have arisen. As you walk through the
Forest, more eyes seem to be peering at you from the
dark spaces between the trees than you remember and
the background noise of unknown creatures is louder.
Everywhere there are the webs of Giant Spiders. Fortu-
nately this species is a trapper rather than a hunter, so
you are safe as long as you apply all your skills to
avoiding the almost invisible webs. After you have
been walking for several hours, you hear something
running towards you. It is large and has many legs —
but it can’t be a Giant Spider, for they seldom leave
their webs. Then you see it, charging through the

326-327

trees: a Giant Stag Beetle with an enormous, black
armoured body and hugely overgrown jaws like a
stag’s antlers — but it’s much more ferocious than any
stag. Will you dodge out of its way (tum to 40), shoot
at it (turn to 2§4), or fight it with your sword (tum to
283)?

326
You punt the barge until you have got it up to a good
speed, then you let the current take it so that you can
rest (regain 2 STAMINA points). As you lie on the raft,
half dozing, you begin to wonder: how is it that the
water here is so clear, when in the Forest the river is
sO Overgrown?

Some hours later you reach the point where the river
turns south and this puzzle is answered for you. At this
point a tributary with a strange yellowish tint joins the
river from the north. Whatever may have caused this
discoloration, it seems to be affecting the river, for the
water downstream is choked with weeds. The tributary
itself is clear, probably because it is flowing so fast.
There is no way you are going to get any further in
the barge, so you land it on the west bank, just past
the junction of the two rivers, then you jump ashore
and prepare to continue your adventure on foot. Will
you follow the tributary north (tum to 122) or follow
the river south towards Sardath (turn to 142)?

327
‘lam so relieved to hear an outside voice,’ says the warrior
when you contact him, ‘even if it is inside my head.’

328-329

You talk for some time about what has happened, and
of your plans to stop it.

‘By day, there are terrible storms,’ he says, ‘so that the
Lake is unnavigable, Anyway, only a very few would
leave Sardath voluntarily. Most elected to stay and
defend the town from the Black Flyers. They are fierce
fighters and have considerable measure of advantage,
attacking from the air. But we are also a strong people
and so far have held them off. But we cannot last
forever, We are relying on you, Councillor, to turn the
tables in our favour.’

You wish Ydys good luck, but his image has already
faded, and the yellow eyes are appearing. "To whom
do you wish to speak?’ says the smooth, cultured
voice. Turn back to 99 and make another choice.

328
The Dark EIf looks at you in horror and screams:
‘Human!’ The shout echoes off the cavern walls and
reverberates all over the city. You run, but scores of
Dark Elves leave their homes to pursue you, You
cannot escape.

329
The amulet hums with power as it absorbs the Sor-
cerer’s attack, and flashes yellow, There is another
crackle of magical energy and the Sorcerer is left
staring ahead through pure white eyes. He is alive, but
mindless. You tell him to lie down on the floor, and he
obeys you. But when you tell him to use his magic to
levitate himself, he just lies there dumbly. With his
530-331

mind destroyed, all his magical abilities have gone.
You draw your sword and leave the Sorcerer’s domain,
striding out on to the walkway in the bottomless
cavern. Turn to 400.

330
As you plummet down through the sky, you spread
your arms wide in a desperate attempt to steer yourself
towards one of the descending Black Flyers. You have
seen Wraith Apes attacking adventurers with gliding
leaps; without their wing-like skin-flaps, however, you
cannot hope to control your descent. You will just
have to trust that your gods are with you. Test your
Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 299, If you are Unlucky,
turn to 218

331
You introduce yourself in the most Dwarf-like manner

you know. Lokimur smiles. “You are a very courteous
and unhasty human,’ he says, “but these are hasty
times, so I think we should discuss the situation
without delay.” You agree, and explain to him the
nature of your mission and what has befallen you so
far, In his tum, Lokimur explains how he gathered

331

together all the mining folk into this one mine for
their mutual protection. You congratulate him on his
work and ask him if they have suffered many attacks
from the Black Flyers. “Yes, he replies, ‘but only by
night, of course. By day they send packs of Toa-Suo,’
You were going to ask him for his help, but now you
realize that he has other concerns. You ask him instead
if he can give you any information that might be of
help to you. ‘Of course,’ he says, ‘but sadly there is
very little time for proper counsel, What do you need
to know?’ Will you ask him about:

Thyra Migurn (if you know of her)? Turn to 39
What's happened to Sardath? Turn to 97
Corianthus (if you know of him)? Turn to 181
The Black Flyers? Turn to 368
The Toa-Suo? Turn to 385

332-333

332
You stop and wait, knowing that the Elves must be

aware of your presence and that they will come to
greet you in their own good time. Very few humans
have had much contact with the EIf village and you
are the only one ever to have been trained by an EIf.
When you, and adventurers like you, were trying to
open up the Elf-paths, Sorrel, whose Elven name is
Eledorn Falestien, befriended you and taught you not
to fear the Forest but to understand and respect it. He
also showed you how to use a bow, how best to track,
and how to heal yourself using herbs and mosses. In
return, you taught him swordplay. A scar across his
right eye is testimony to this. As you stand there,
thinking of your old friend, a small band of Elves steps
out of the trees with Sorrel at their head. You raise
your hand in greeting and move to approach.

‘Hold,’ shouts Sorrel. ‘Go no further, impostor, we
know what you are.’ You stand there for a second,
baffled. Sorrel lifts his hand and the Elves raise their
bows. You must act quickly or die. Will you shoot
Sorrel (turn to 106), try to prove who you are (tum to
1§9), or tum and run (turn to 204)?

333

When you draw your sword, the creatures start leaping
into the air, making a noise like the barking of dogs.
ry a You slash at one of them, but it snatches at your
sword with its gleaming teeth, tugging on it and
shaking its head. When you pull the weapon free, the
blade is twisted and covered with teeth-marks. An

. el u \
Ly ‘ NO WVialarte

j \

334

instant later, the other monster leaps up and grabs
sword, wrenching it out of your hands. The

334

The waves crash areund you, and the wind and rain
lash into your face; you are only just able to reach the
sailing boat. ‘Brave help!’ comes a shout from above.
When you look up, you see a woman throwing you a
rope, so you grab it and haul the rowing boat along:
side. Once you are aboard, the woman starts giving
you orders, Realizing that she is an experienced sailor,
you jump to it, and with your help she is able to get
the boat to shore.

‘Tam Neya,’ she reveals, once you are both safe. ‘1 owe
you my life.” You try to shrug off her thanks but
cannot suppress a good feeling about what you did
{regain 1 LUCK point). ‘They all said that 1 was foolish
to try to escape from the town, especially now that
the storm has grown so bad. Perhaps | should have
tried to get away earlier, but we all wanted to stay, to
defend Sardath from the Black Flyers.” When you tell
her that they are the very enemy you have come to
destroy, her face lights up with hope. Then you must
travel north into the mountains, for that is where they

335

come trom. Strangely, though, on the first night of the
siege, it was a Dark ELF army that destroyed the bridge
and sank our boats. There is a connection between
these two forces, but it iy too frightening to contem-
plate.” If you have a Brass Key, turn to 195; otherwise,

turn to 472.

335
When he reaches the junction. the Dark Elf coming
from the left stops, waiting for the other to arrive.
Thankfully he doesn’t see you. "Valethion, Clasyar,’ he
says when the ather reaches him,

‘Hello, Dernath,’ the other answers. ‘We were ordered
to practise our Allansian, remember.’

Yes,’ says Dernath. ‘I forgot’ Then he looks puzzled.
‘But where are you going? I was just coming to join
the Cohort.’

That self-righteous Eagle has opened the Observatory
roof again, and Lord Chaugh got himself trapped in
the Games Room. | was sent to try and get him out.
Why don’t you come with me? It’s a futile assignment,
so we can forget it and play Wrist-Dagger;

That suits me,’ says Dernath, and they both set off up
the tunnel,

You wait for a few minutes, then climb out of the
niche. It sounds as if there are a lot of Dark EIf
warriors in the tunnel to the right, and you can't
afford any unnecessary combat, so you decide to go
to the left. Turn to 71.
336-338

336
You dodge to one side, trying to find a way past the
Ghost. To have made your move early and surprised
it would have been a good idea — if the Ghost wasn’t
actually standing right in front of the secret door! As
it is, there is no way you can get through. If you have
a silver weapon of some kind, turn to 111. Otherwise,
turn to 163,

337
Slowly and cautiously you make your way towards the

strange ritual, wary of what you might encounter, One of
the Dark Elves suddenly spins round and glares at you
with demonic eyes. You flinch, and he laughs softly

‘Excellent,’ he says. ‘Take this torch and stand in the centre
of the diagram.’ You hesitate for a moment, and the Dark
EIf bares his cruelly sharpened teeth. Will you do as you
are asked (turn to 268) or make some excuse (turn to 144)?

338
From your experiences in the oval room, you know that
a large number of Dark Elves are in there and that they
are exceptionally strange and dangerous. There may still

339-349

be things you would like to accomplish in this room, but
the risk of returning to that grisly place would be very
great. With these thoughts in mind, you decide to avoid
the oval building, so you take the turning to the right
and go down the stairway. Tum to 391.

339
The Eagle swoops down and its talons take a deep

grip on your flesh. Even though you struggle to free
yourself, it lifts you into the sky, its enormous wings
struggling to overcome the extra weight. When it has
climbed several hundred metres, it hovers for a moment
and screeches, as if calling to somebody. Then it drops
you, and you plummet towards the rocks below — a
fall which you will not survive.

340
Dropping your sword, you take a few running steps,
and then leap at the retreating impostor. Roll one die.
If you roll 1-2, Mom is just that little bit too quick for
you and you miss him, collapsing to the floor (turn to
271). If you roll 3-6, you manage to grab him and
oring him crashing to the ground (turn to 212).
341-342

341
Fangnir’s body goes limp as you tug at him, and he
hits the ground with a thud. You quickly pull him to
the side of the road, drop him, and then turn back to
the wagon. The monster that caused the eruption is a
many-armed, writhing creature with hard, shiny scales.
Its massive tentacles have burst through the road and
are now dragging the wagon into its cavernous mouth.
You think about fighting the Chthonian Trapper, but
it seems to want only the wagon, so you decide it is
not worth the risk. Once the creature has done its
worst, it disappears back into the ground, leaving
devastation in its wake. When you return to the
Dwarf, he is bewailing the loss of all his goods but,
once he fully realizes what has happened, he thanks
you profusely for saving his life (regain 1 Luck point).
‘Nevertheless,’ he moans, ‘this trip has been wasted,
and I shall have to walk all the way back to Fangthane.’
He hardly seers to hear you bidding him farewell as
he trudges back along the Fangthane Road, grumbling
and moaning to himself. You too must continue on
foot. Will you carry on west towards Sardath (turn to
242) or turn north and go into the mountains (turn to

357)?

342
You walk along the riverbank for several hours. There
are no webs here — but that only increases the possibility
of there being other and greater dangers. Nevertheless,
these rermoter parts of the Forest do have their rewards:
rare healing tubers growing at the river’s edge. You dig
up a few and put them in your pack {add 2 to your Herbs).
343-344

Many hours pass and the Forest's darkness descends
into the chill blackness of night. There is a small
clearing near the riverbank, so you set up camp, As
you sit, eating cold rations and gazing over the trees
on the west bank, you notice two black shapes silhouet-
ted against the star-filled sky; they are some distance
to the west and are flying southwards. After a while,
they land. You would like to investigate them further,
but this is impossible since the river lies between you
and them. There are no tree creepers hereabouts, and
it would be foolhardy to risk swimming across, so
close to Slykk territory. (Write the number 115 in a
circle on your Adventure Sheet). Will you settle straight
down to sleep (turn to 19) or make a fire first (turn to
188)?

343
The voice reaches the limits of human hearing. ‘Impos-

tor!’ Suddenly you are assailed by a flurry of blows
from invisible talons. You try to strike back but it is
almost impossible, Even when you do, it has no effect,
for this guardian is a Demon, impervious to anything
but magical weapons. Your adventure is over.

344
The officer thanks you and explains that he operates

an overlapping rota. ‘Go to sleep now,’ he says, ‘and
the Dwarf you are to relieve will wake you when it is
your turn.’ You wish him a good night, and go back
to your pallet. Some time during the night, you are
woken by a very tired-looking Dwarf. Even though it
is not yet morning, you are fairly refreshed (regain 1

345-346

STAMINA point). “You are to replace me on the lower
ledge of the north cliff,” he says. ‘Everything should be
quiet now. We were attacked by a small flight of Black
Flyers earlier on but were able to fight them off.’

When you get to the ledge, you find the other guards
hauling someone up on a rope. ‘A refugee,’ one of
them says. ‘He’s almost dead from exhaustion,’

When the Dwarf is finally brought on to the ledge, he
collapses. ‘I thought I’d never find sanctuary,’ he gasps.
Two of the guards drape his arms over their shoulders
and walk with him back into the mine. You are
suddenly struck by recollections of Morn Preeler and
other impostors you have seen or heard of: this could
so easily be a trap, Will you challenge the Dwarf (turn
to 172) or whisper your suspicions to the guard
nearest you (turn to 244)?

345
The storm is terrible. It is difficult even to get into the

boat, but you manage it and set out across the lake, It
is a desperate struggle, and the town is some distance
away. With every metre you row, the wind and waves
get worse. Will you press on (tum to 386) or tum
back (turn to 265)?

346
You walk along the overgrown path for several hours,
watching for Giant Spiders, Suddenly ... Test your
Luck. If you are Unlucky, you feel a rush of air and are
bowled over by a hot, sticky body and a mass of legs.
You feel a sharp pain in your neck as the Giant Pirate

ee |=
347-348

Spider injects you with its poison. In just a few
moments you are paralysed and will be eaten at the
Spider's leisure. If you are Lucky, you see the Spider
just before it drops, and you manage to dodge out of
its way. When you draw your sword, it scuttles back
up into the tree, You skirt round it, and walk on,

Many hours later, as evening is approaching, you
arrive at the second rope-bridge and set up a camp
near by. This site is often used by traders and, even
though the Forest is becoming darker, it still seerns
safe. You settle down to sleep.

The moming arrives (regain 2 STAMINA points and
tick off the next day on your Adventure Sheet). After a
quick breakfast, you prepare to leave. Will you carry
on along the trail (turn to 9) or follow the river (turn
to 20)?

347

You punt the barge until it has got up a good speed,
then you let the current take it so that you can rest.
After a while, darkness falls. You lie down and listen
to the gentle lapping of the water. You have travelled
so far and undergone such hardships that you are
unable to stop yourself falling asleep. Strange, dark
creatures with bat-like wings patrol these mountains at
night, and they have perfect night vision. You never
wake up.

348
When you step through the archway and on to the
small platform beyond, you realize at once that you

349

are back in the bottomless cavern, so you lower your
gaze to avoid the wild geometry of its construction.
Nevertheless you can just see that, straight ahead, the
platform leads to a stairway going down while, to
your left, it leads to a walkway. Will you go left (tum
to 3) or straight on (turn to 302)?

349
It is the middle of the night. You are very tired and a

little stiff from the cold, so you make camp at the base
of the mound and settle down to sleep.

Later the next day (regain 1 STAMINA point and tick
off the next day on your Adventure Sheet} you wake
up, hardly refreshed at all. You have dreamt of Col-
thyn, and now you are sure he is in some kind of
danger, so you decide to travel north as quickly as
possible. The Forest is as dark and as cold as ever but,
as you march further north, the Giant Spider webs get
fewer and further between, Towards the end of the
day, you arrive at the second rope-bridge and set up a
camp near by. This site is often used by traders and,
even though the Forest is becoming darker, it still
seems safe,

The morning arrives (regain 2 STAMINA points and
tick off the next day on your Adventure Sheet}, and you
feel refreshed by your sleep on a soft bed of trampled
ferns. This time you didn’t dream — perhaps the
dreams of last night were just some sort of strange
after-effect of Khornu’s tomb, and not a true warning
at all, Will you now continue along the trail (turn to 9}
or follaw the river (turn to 20)?
350-352

50
Suddenly there are bolts of lightning flashing every-
where and such noise that you are deafened. You have
aroused the great fury of Thyra Migurn, Mistress of
Sukh’s Tower; this is something that no mortal can
survive. Your adventure is over.

cp Se

Julien carries you across the lake and over the Freeze-
blood Wall into the Freezeblood Mountains. Eventually
you come to a castle on the top of an isolated peak,
with many Dark Elves stationed on the ramparts. As
soon as you land, several of these creatures surround
you. Your adventure ends here.

352
As soon as you speak his name, Corianthus’s face
appears in the pool, contorted by pain,

‘Cannot speak,’ he says, as if through clenched teeth
But his lips are not moving — he is obviously using the
pool to communicate telepathically. ‘Must devote all
energy to resistance. Destroy the Sorcerer before my
will is broken. You cannot free me,’

You ask the Giant if he has any advice on how to
defeat the Sorcerer, but he doesn’t seem to hear you
His image fades and the pool clears. After a few
seconds, the yellow eyes appear, and the smooth,
cultured voice asks its question. “To whom do you
wish to speak?” Turn back to 99 and make another
choice.

Po ——i—issi—i‘“‘iai‘iameee

353-355

353

You follow the tunnel for about fifty metres until it
emerges into a seemingly bottomless cavern, For a
moment, you are seized by an unexpected attack of
vertigo, but if soon passes and you see that you are
standing on a long narrow walkway. You glance
across the cavern to find out where it goes, and you
catch a terrifying glimpse of the Dark EIE lair. It is of
such a wild geometry and architecture that it makes
you flinch and avert your gaze. Will you force yourself
to look at the lair (turn to 24) or go along the
walkway, keeping your eyes down (turn to 288)?

354
The further down the road you go, the more unfinished

the buildings become and the greater the proportion
of slaves doing the work, carrying materials and build-
ing walls and pillars. But there are also more slave-
drivers, and other Dark Elves are on the scaffolds,
inspecting the work and whipping those Dwarfs who
deliberately make mistakes — Dwarfs never build badly
by accident. Some distance ahead, you can see the
cavern wall and hundreds of slaves swarming round it,
all chained. If only you could release them, all these
Dwarfs would make an excellent army — as long as
they were directed by a good military leader. If you
have a Small Gargoyle, turn to 162, Otherwise turn to
76

355
The Slykk on the Chief's right steps forward. ‘Rurkk,’
he says, pointing to himself and rattling the chain of
356

dried fish heads round his neck, ‘Slykk magic,’ In
stilted Allansian and improvised sign language, you
parley, persuading him that you mean no harm, Rurkk
translates for his chief, who croaks at him and makes
several strange facial gestures. ‘Lower bow,’ Rurkk
says to you. You comply immediately, and at another
gesture from the Chief the Slykk lower their spears
‘What you want?’ says Rurkk.

In some detail, you tell him about your mission and
the events that led you to undertake it.

‘Know this creature!’ ‘says Rurkk when you tell him
about Morn Preeler. He then tells you that something
like an EIf, but with jet-black skin, magically imperson-
ated a Slykk and mixed with the tribe ~ until Rurkk
exposed him. Once he has finished his story, Rurkk
shows you a small bundle. ‘Elf had this,’ he says,
handing it to you. (You may inspect the bundle at any
time by turning to 278.) Rurkk says, ‘Will now go.’
You look up, but the Slykk have vanished into the
reeds, You must move on. Will you now sail on up
the river (turn to 497), sail to the east bank and walk
north into the Forest (turn to 267) or sail to the west
bank and walk south-west into the marsh (turn to 64)?

356
You draw your sword and lunge at the man as his
wagon draws alongside you. With unexpected agility
he ducks out of the way of your blade. He’s spent a
lifetime dodging unsatisfied customers and has devel-
oped lightning-fast reflexes. Before you can attack
again, he leaps to the other side of the cart and draws

357-358

a glass phial from inside his cloak: it has a white fog
swirling around inside it. "You dare attack an honest
trader!’ he snarls. ‘I took you to be an honourable
adventurer, not a cowardly thug. Let this be a lesson.’
He throws the phial on to the ground, where it
smashes; you are enveloped by a choking mist. The
mist dissipates quite quickly, but not before you have
suffered its ill-effects. Roll four dice. If the total is
higher than your sTAMINA, then the poisonous mist
has hurt you. Roll one die and deduct that many
points from your sTAMINA. If the total is less than or
equal to your sTAMINA, then you are strong enough
to fight off the effects of the mist and so take no
damage. If you manage to survive the poisonous fog,
you look up and down the road, but the trader has
gone. There is no point in pursuing the incident, so
you press on with your mission. Tum to 130.

357
You walk north for some time over the springy, marshy

turf, following a gentle incline. Eventually, you come to
a wide but fairly shallow river — the Sardath. It is not
flowing very fast, so you are able to wade across without
any difficulty. On the far side, however, the terrain
steepens sharply to a rocky, snow-capped ridge and you
are forced to make a detour. Colrhyn probably could
have climbed the ridge, but you don’t have the expertise.
Will you go west (turn to 72) or east (turn to 47)?

358
You follow the walkway as far as an archway in a
plain stone wall. But something about this archway is

_ ee

359-360

wrong, as if you would have to cross a great gulf to
reach it. The world begins to spin and you lose all
sense of where you are. Test your Luck. If you are
Unlucky, you feel an intense dizziness and begin to
stagger from one side of the walkway to the other,
Unable to control yourself, you fall to your knees and
pitch over the side — your adventure ends here. If you
are Lucky, you recover at the last moment and find
yourself gazing down into what looks like an infinite
abyss. If this is the first time you have experienced
this effect, you will be disorientated for days (lose 1
SKILL point). If you’ve' suffered from this effect before,
the symptoms are not worsened. When you finally
come to your senses, you can’t quite make out where
you are, except that you are on a walkway. Roll one
die. If you roll:

I—2 Turn to 77

3-4 Turn to 112

5-6 Turn to 146
359

When several of the Dark Elves stare at you suspi-
ciously, you realize you have made a mistake. The one
who spoke to you says something else in his strange
language, but you have no idea what to say now;
instead, you turn and run. But with so many warriors
on your fail, you have no chance of escape.

360
Bistort arranges for you to be lodged in the guard
house in the look-out tree and, after an excellent

361

supper of Elven delicacies, you settle down to sleep. In
the morning (regain 2 STAMINA points and tick off the
next day on your Adventure Sheet), Bistort returns to
wake you. He tells you that his confidence is high,
although the tracking party hasn’t retuned yet. ‘Even
though they are a problem to everybody,’ he says,
‘the Dark Elves are our responsibility, especially in the
Forest, We are searching for the entrance to their
underground city, although it may not be here. It
could be beneath the lake or the mountains, so |
suggest you leave the Forest to us and continue your
search northwards.’

You tell him about your strange nightmare, saying
that it seems to point to the city being beneath the
mountains.

‘| am not sure that it is safe to trust dreams in these
strange times,’ he says, ‘unless you know what their
source is. Nevertheless, it is a possibility.” Before you
leave, Bistort replenishes your supply of arrows, and
gives you 3 Bundles of Herbs. Will you now go north-
west on the Elf-path (turn to 45), north through the
Forest (turn to 2x) or north-east along the other EIf-
path (turn to 346)?

361
As you sail on, the weeds gradually grow thicker and
more unnatural-looking. After about an hour, the river
becomes impassable, so you manoeuvre the boat to
the north-east bank and disembark. You then continue
on foot, following the river. Tum to 20.
362-363

362

About thirty metres along the road and still some
distance outside the camp, two huge, dog-like monsters
are chained up, one on either side of the track. These
are Obligaths: they have immensely powerful limbs,
teeth that gleam metallically, and shiny, pointed scales
which rise like hackles as you approach. If you have an
Orc Bone and wish to give it to them, turn to 113.
Otherwise, turn to 273.

363

You walk towards the stone door, but Istu stops you,
‘There is a Warding,’ he says, ‘Written in a magical
form that only Demons can see is a symbol which
prevents me from passing through, but you may go
on.’ He walks up to the door and heaves it open, using
his supernatural strength. ‘I will stay here and pretend
to be the door’s Guardian. Since no one can see me,
they will think that the voice is Pnea’s.’ You thank the
Demon for his help, then step through the door into a
narrow tunnel.

Because you are human, the Dark Elves’ lair will
become very dangerous. The first time you are spoken
to by a Dark EIf, you should ignore what the text says
and turn immediately to 328 (make a note of this on
your Adventure Sheet). You follow the tunnel for about
fifty metres until it emerges into a seemingly bottom-
less cavern, For a moment, you are seized by an
unexpected attack of vertigo, but it soon passes and
you see that you are standing on a long, narrow
walkway. You glance across the cavern to find out
364-365

where it goes, and you catch a terrifying glimpse of
the Dark EIf lair. It is of such a wild geometry and
architecture that it makes you flinch and avert your
gaze. Will you force yourself to look at the lair (turn
to 24) or go along the walkway, keeping your eyes
down (turn to 288)?

You examine the door very carefully, feeling across its
surface and round its edges, You spend several minutes
at this, but find nothing. Will you:

Strike the door with your sword (if

you have one)? Tum to 136
Try saying a password? Turn to 2
Give up? Turn to 349

365

You hear doors slamming and what sound like curses
in some strange language, but they die down after a
few minutes. Cautiously, you walk to the edge of the
opening and peer over, Whatever creatures were in
this room have now gone, so you decide to go in.
This castle was built for a Giant, so there is a ten.
metre drop to the floor of the room below. If you
have a rope, you loop it round one of the battlements
abseil in, then pull the rope down behind you. If you
do not, you have no choice but to jump. No matter
how agile you are, you will sustain some injury (rol!
one die and deduct that many STAMINA paints),

The room you have entered is not just a means of

366-367

access for the Eagle, it is also an observatory. There
are star charts on the walls and a huge telescope
pointing up through the trapdoor. But there is nothing
else in here, so you decide to leave through one of the
immense doors. Will you go through the one on your
left, marked ‘Games Room’ (turn to 78), or the one in
front of you, marked ‘Library’ (tum to 166), or will
you go through the unmarked door on your right
(turn to r10)?

366
The Sorcerer's eyes narrow. ‘Is it possible that Khornu
Wych had even more secrets than I have discovered?’

if you teil him that you found instructions in Khornu’s
tomb which would endow the amulet with awesome
self-destructive power, tum to 239.

If you just stand there impassively, letting his doubts
grow, he suddenly has a flash of inspiration. Tt is not
impossible for there to be some way of making the
amulet absorb a physical attack, That would overload
tt and nullify its powers. Of course, it would function
normally if I attacked your mind.’ Will you tell him
that, if he believes that, he should try such an attack
(turn to 312), or suddenly look panic-stricken and say
that the amulet’s power is waning (turn to 121)?

367
The apparatus bubbles gently and a white liquid
quickly forms, dripping out of the end of the apparatus
into a small phial. Your heart thumps as you drink the
liquid — for all you know, it may be poisonous, But
368

nothing terrible happens, just a strange tingling sensa-
tion running down your spine. When you push your
hand inside your shirt to find out what is happening,
you feel a soft, feathery ridge on either side of your
back: the beginnings of wings, perhaps. To test this
theory, you give a little mental push and a huge pair
of white, Pegasus Wings bursts through your clothes
You stretch them wide and flap them. With ease, you
rise until you can touch the ten-metre-high ceiling, You
hover for a few minutes and then land — for the mo-
ment there is no advantage to be gained from flying,
When you give a little mental pull, the Pegasus Wings
withdraw, Return to 42 and make another choice.

368

‘As you probably know, the Black Flyers are, in fact,
mutated Dark Elves. It is my belief that they are
building an underground city somewhere in these
mountains. I have no idea how to find it, but ] do know
that some Dark Elf architecture can drive you insane if
you look at it too closely.’ He reaches into a leather
belt-pouch and takes out a small crystal ball. ‘My great-
grandfather was an expert on Dark EIf architecture. He
said this would protect the mind of anyone looking at
it, though only from a distance, Just hold it in front of
your eyes.” He hands this family heizloom to you with
great ceremony, saying that he will expect you to
return it to him if you survive. Make a note on your
Adventure Sheet that, if you ever take the option to look
at the Dark EIf Jair and are asked to Test your Luck, you
don’t have to: just follow the Lucky option, without
deducting any points from your LUCK score.

369-370

If this is the second question that you have asked
Lokimur, turn to 274. If it is only the first, you may
ask another. What will it be about:

Thyra Migurn (if you know of her)? Turn to 39
What's happened to Sardath? Turn to 97
Corianthus (if you know of him)? Tum to 181
The Toa-Suo? Tum to 385

369

After going along the walkway for some distance, you
reach a junction. Straight ahead of you are many Dark
Elf warriors, apparently engaged in training or some
other military activity, They haven’t taken any notice
of you so far, but it would be foolish to tempt
providence, so you decide to keep well clear of that
direction, To your left a stairway leads up to a huge
oval building; to your right, there is another stairway,
this time leading down to the floor of the cavem,
where you can see a lot of building work in progress.
If you have already spoken with any of the Dark Elves
in the oval building, turn to 338. If you have not, will
you go left (turn to 216) or right (turn to 391)?

37°
The walkway is met almost immediately by a stairway
going downwards. You follow this to a platform
where another walkway goes off to the right and an
archway leads straight ahead. But when you look at
the archway, something about it is wrong, as if you
would have to cross a great gulf to reach it, The world
begins to spin and you lose all sense of where you are.
371

Test your Luck, if you are Unlucky, you feel an intense
giddiness and begin to stagger from one side of the
platform to the other. Unable to help yourself, you fall
sideways off the walkway — your adventure is over. If
you are Lucky, you recover at the last moment and
find yourself gazing down into what looks like an
infinite abyss. If this is the first time you have experi-
enced this effect, you will be disorientated for days
(lose 1 sxitt point). If you've had this sensation
before, the symptoms are not worsened, When you
finally come to, you can’t quite work out where you
are, except that you are on a walkway. Roll one die. If
you roll;

1-2 Turn to 13
3-4 Turn to 177
5-6 Tum to 324

371
You take the bottle from your pack and reach over the
stern of the boat. You pull out the stopper very
carefully and pour the liquid on to the Weed. It hisses
and smokes as the powerful acid burns up the dull-red
leaves. The rudder is freed, and you sail on However,
since Bloodweed is dangerous only until it is gorg
killing it was unnecessary — this one had already had
its All of your blood, which you should have realized
from its dull-red colour. For such a gratuitous act, the
natural luck that follows you through the Forest ebbs
a little (lose 2 Lucx point). An hour or so later, you
spot another pair of amphibian eyes gazing at you
This time, instead of looking back at them directly,

374

you keep on looking forward but you keep a watch on
the eyes out of the corner of your own eyes, Not

realizing that it has been spotted, the creature stays in
view, Will you quickly grab your bow and shoot an
arrow at it (turn to go) or just wait to see what it does
(turn to 294)?

372
‘Corianthus should know what is going on,’ she says.
‘He knows much of what goes on in these mountains.’
You ask her who he is. ‘Corianthus is the Storm Giant
who lives in the castle on Harn Cloud,’ She reaches
inside her tunic and produces a large Brass Key. This
is one of the keys to his library, a sign of his special
trust, Take it to Corianthus and ask for his help in my
name.” You thank her and ask her how you can get to
the Giant. ‘Go north,’ she says, ‘following the river
until you reach a small stream leading up the side of a
huge, isolated mountain. Persevere, and you will reach
the castle.’ You thank Neya again. 1 would like to
travel with you," she says, ‘but J have already promised
to go to Fangthane, the Dwarven capital, to tell them
of our plight. Sardath has a huge Dwarven population,
so they are sure to came to our aid — if it's not too
late.” You wish her luck. She smiles, 1 will see you
when I come back to Sardath to celebrate the success

of your mission.’

You laugh at her bravado, and watch as she heads
towards Gwinir’s Bridge. Once Neya is out of sight,
you tum north and begin the trek into the mountains.
Tum to 82,

zh
373-374

Once you are flying over the shadowy forest, you ask
Mom who he really is. ‘1 am Tulien, a Dark EIf
Lieutenant — although now I should receive a promo-
tion for capturing you, as now your people are sure to
go into the Forest to their deaths’ You realize that he
is right and that in part you have already failed
(deduct 2 points from your Luck). You ask him what
will happen to your people. ‘The Sorcerer has made
the Giant Spiders come out of their hiding places and
invade the Elf-paths, and the Wood Elves have too
many of their own problems to do anything about it.’
You ask him what he means, but he won’t answer. He
beats his wings even faster, carrying you through the
dark sky at an incredible speed. After a while, you see
two black figures flying towards you. Before they
reach you, they start to spiral downwards. If you do
nothing, turn to §3. If you try to break free in order to
land on the back of one as you fly over it, you will
have to wrestle free of Iulien’s grip. Roll two dice and
work out your Attack Strength. Do the same for
lulien, but deduct 2 points from his Attack Strength
since he is flying as well as trying to keep hold of you.
If the result is a draw or if you win the Attack Round,
you manage to tear his arms from you and let yourself
drop towards one of the dark creatures (turn to 330). If
you lose the Attack Round, you are unable to escape
in time and are forced to stop struggling (turn to 53).

374

A huge voice booms out in the language of the Dark
Elves. At first its tone is questioning, but you have no
375-376

idea how to answer it, Gradually the tone becomes more
angry, until it suddenly switches to Allansian:

to die, human.’ Before you have time to think, you are
being assailed by a flurry of blows from invisible talons,
You try to fight back but the odds are almost insuperable.
Even when you think your sword has hit, it does no
good, for this guardian is a Demon, impervious to
anything but magical weapons, Your adventure is over.

375
Dear Archelantes,

Next time you want me to do some tesearch for you,
kindly write. You know how to call my hawks, and so
shouldn't find any difficulty, I detest communicating
over the Mercury Pool: it’s an invasion of privacy, and
| would rather it was only used in cases of emergency.

Having said that, | have found out most of what
you wanted to know about transformation magic.
{ set up an apparatus to try a few potions, but |
couldn't get them to work. You know how inept
Lam at these things, Still...

Excuse me a moment. There’s a noise in the labora-
tory. I'll just go and check.

And that is where it ends. Whatever Corianthus found
in the laboratory, he never returned to finish his letter,
Turn back to 166 and choose another option.

376
You feel a terrible pang at having to let the Dwarf die
(lose z Luck point), but the Chthonian Trapper is just

377-378

too powerful for you. You watch, sickened, as the
creature drags its prey under the ground, leaving the
road in a devastated state. After a few moments’
silence for the passing of poor Fangnir, you haul
yourself to your feet and prepare to go on, Will you
KO west towards Sardath (turn to 232) or turn north
and go into the mountains (tum to 35707

377
This goblet contains s spicy, black liquid known as
Mead of Great Power. It tastes very strong but has a
Piquancy that induces you to drain the whole cup

than you have ever been. You may regain any points
of SxiLL and stamina that you have lost. In addition,
you may add 1 point to your Initia! skit. as long as
this does not take your score above 12. Now tum
back to g2 and select another item

378

The two Obligaths take great exception to your rough
treatment and their hackles rise. You try to placate
them, but they bare their razor-sharp teeth and begin
to growl. Despite your confidence in your ability as a
warrior, you reel a tremor of fear. When the Obligatihs
sense this, they attack at once. There is no time to use
your bow.

SKILL STAMINA
First OBLIGATH 10 5
Second OBLIGATH 11 4

|
379-380

If you win, you arrange the two bodies to look as if
they killed each other, then you carry on down the
road, Turn to 399.

7
There are some boulders and a large patch of heather for
cover by the side of the road. You quickly get behind
them and lie still, keeping your breath shallow. After afew
minutes; thundering sound comes towards you, growing
lowder and louder, then it stops. Through a small gap in
the heather you cansee the creature looking all around—it
must have spotted you before you hid, Roll two dice. If
the total is less than or equal to your sKILL, tum to 61,
If the total is greater than your skiLL, turn to 148.

380
The Slykk stares at you apprehensively, then glances
behind him. If you decide to hold your fire, tum to 55.
If you prefer to shoot him, roll two dice and check the
total against your skILL to see whether you hit. If you

381-382

do, make a note of the fact and deduct 2 points from
his stamina when you Aight him. Whether you hit of
not, the Slykk resumes his charze before you can nock
another arrow, so you must sling your bow over your
shoulder arid draw your sword. Turn to 234.

381
Die, then, human,’ says the mutating creature. ‘and
seal the fete for all your race,’ (If you have already
fought Morn with your sword, his stAMINA score
may be less than that given.)

MORN PREELER SKILL 7 STAMINA 8

Whenever Mom foses.an Altack Round, roll’ tyo dice,
If the total is less than or equal to his sTAMINA.
continue the fight. If it is preater, roll one die. [f bhis
number too is greater than his sTAMINA. turn to IS.
[Fit is less than or equal to his stamina, tum to 196,
If you win the fight, turn to 240.

382
You take out Thyra's Lightning Sphere and hold it in
your hand, It sparks and crackles, and you can feel its
restless power almost willing you to throw it You

— eee
383

draw your arm slowly back, then launch the Sphere
past the Storm Giant, to a point between the two
groups of Dark Elves, For one heart-stopping second,
nothing happens. Then there is a sudden blaze of light
and you clap your hands over your eyes. A volley of
deafening explosions follows, and then nothing. When
you look again, all that remains of the Dark Elves is a
cloud of fine grey powder. Fortunately the Storm
Giant is unaffected; whether the cage protected him,
or he is immune to Thyra’s power, you don’t know
You are just glad that he is unharmed. You walk
towards him to see whether you can free him, but you
are repulsed by some great power. No matter what
you try to do, you cannot get close to him.

‘What has happened here?’ demands a Dark Elf voice
from the archway. For a second you are taken by
surprise, but then you explain that a terrible power
flashed out from the Giant and killed them all. ‘Oh,
well, he says, ‘they were all drunken scum anyway.
But you had better go and inform the Sorcerer.’ You
hesitate. ‘Gol’ he shouts. By now, other Dark Elves
have joined him, so you are forced to leave. Turn to

29.

383
‘You fool,’ he replies. “You obviously know nothing
about the amulet. It is merely a defence against magic
of the mind.’ He shakes his head. ‘I weary of this futile
conversation’

Realizing that he is going to attack, you draw your
sword as swiftly as you can.

384
‘Faeleorn rath mardex.’

When you run at him, you crash into a wall of
impenetrable force and stumble backwards, stunned.
The Sorcerer raises his staff, spraying you with a
viscous jet of life-sapping darkness. Your adventure is
Over,

384
Even though he has suffered a great deal, Colrhyn is
not one to give up. He is finding it difficult to stay
awake, but he is determined to tell you as much as he
can. ‘If anyone knows what is going on, it is Corian-
thus.’ This is a name you have not heard before
‘Corianthus is a Storm Giant who lives in a castle on
the top of Harn Cloud. He is the greatest scholar in
north-east Allansia. His libraries contain vast amounts
of ancient knowledge, and his hawks gather news for
him from the farthest lands. His greatest friend is the
Giant Eagle.’ With some difficulty, Colrhyn reaches
down to his belt and unhooks a great Brass Key, ‘I am
one of the few to whom he has entrusted a key to his
library. Show it to Corianthus and he will know that !
sent you.’ You take the key and put it in your pack.
‘There is much I could tell you about the mountains,
but I am too weak.’ He sighs and closes his eyes. You
tell him that you will have to rely on your wits. ‘At
least take some equipment and Herbs,’ he says, and
then his head sinks into the pillow; in seconds he is in
a deep sleep. You take his climbing rope and 4
Bundles of Herbs, and you refill your quiver with
arrows, You may also replace any weapons you have
385

lost. Now feeling much better prepared and more
positive about your quest {add 1 Luck point), you
creep out of his cabin and set off north-east up the
trail. Turn to 1g.

385

‘The Toa-Suo are not native to this area. They normally
live in the icy wastes to the north of the Icefinger
Mountains, but the Black Flyers seem to have recruited
some of their number to fight for them during the
day.’ You ask him what their weaknesses are. ‘It is
more profitable to talk about their strengths. Alone,
they are not much stronger than a Hobgoblin The
problem is that they fight in large groups, working as
a perfect unit with no thought for individual safety.
Even one such as you would stand no chance. Your
best defence is to avoid them.’ You thank him for
this grim advice and ask him how you may achieve
this. ‘We believe that they come in from the north,
so you should be safe as long as you don’t go too
far in that direction. I'm sorry that I can’t help you
more.’

386

If this is the second question that you have asked
Lokimur, turn to 274. If it is only the first, you may
ask another. What will it be about-

Thyra Migum (if you know of her)? Turn to 39
What's happened to Sardath? Tum to 97
Corianthus (if you know of him)? Tum to 181
The Black Flyers? Tum to 368

386
The waves crash around you; the driving wind and
rain lash into your face.’ You fight the thrashing water
but it is just too much. Suddenly there is a swell. You
try to keep the boat upright, but it flips over and you
are plunged into the icy water. As you go under for
the last time, you realize that you have failed.

387-389

387

Since you have already struck the door twice without
pause, this third strike completes the Sign of Summon-
ing, the secret code of Khomu Wych’s tomb. There is
a loud click, and the door slides open. When you step
inside, the door closes behind you and you gaze upon
the dead seer’s richly adored crypt. At the back of
the chamber, leaning against the wall, is a beautifully
carved sarcophagus. There is no front to it, so you can
see the mummified body of Khornu standing inside,
As well as the life-preserving bandages, the body is
draped in robes bearing astrological symbols and it
wears a large golden amulet. There are no exits from
this room. You walk up to the body of the seer and
examine it very carefully. The robe is clearly of no
special interest, but the amulet might be. If you reach
into the sarcophagus and take it, tun to 289. Other-
wise you will have to leave (turn to 12).

388
Climbing is very hard work because, for every two
metres you ascend, you slide back one. The day passes
in what seems like an eternal torment and you are
hardly aware of the terrible cold or the falling of night.
Suddenly a shout comes from above you and you look
up. Gliding towards you is a whole flight of Black
Flyers. They swoop down on you with murder in their
eyes, Your adventure is over.

389
When you are about half-way down the stairway, you
observe a Dark Elf coming towards you, sauntering

39°

along as if he had nothing but contempt for the world.
He is tall and slender and is dressed in tight yellow
trousers, with carefully sited holes that expose the
smooth, dark skin of his calf and thigh. A sword hangs
from the black belt round his waist, but it looks more
ornamental than functional. His jacket is of a very
strange design, with a long sleeve on one side and a
high, capped shoulder on the other. But the arm that
protrudes from this is unmuscled and delicate. His face
also has a delicate look, especially since it is covered in
an intricate make-up, As he approaches you, he says
something to you in a disdainful tone. It’s in Dark EIf,
so you don’t know what he is saying. However, he
doesn’t seem to expect an answer — he just pushes
past you, oblivious of your obvious greater strength.
It yuu reach out an arm to stop him, turn to 169. If
you let him go past, you carry on down the stairway
to a rough track. You follow this for about fifty metres
until it comes to a junction turning right. Wil! you
carry on along the track (turn to 237) or turn right and
head towards what looks like a military camp (turn to
362)?

390
You walk towards the outskirts of the village, trying
to decide which route to take into the Forest. Even
though you have seen the enemy, you still know
neither what it is nor where it comes fom. As you
come to the beginning of the forest trail, your reverie
is broken by the clattering wheels of a wagon rattling
along the road towards you. This is curious — you
thought the Forest had become impassable. As he

391

approaches, the driver of the wagon shouts to you:
‘Good morning, traveller, Are you interested in buying
any of my potions and magical cure-alls?’ If you are
suspicious of the trader, it might be wise to try a
surprise attack on him (turn to 356). Otherwise, you
must make some reply, Will you say that you're not
really interested in buying potions (turn to 32), or will
you ask him what he’s got and how much it costs
(turn to 263)?

I
At the foot of the stairway is a long road: it is well
constructed but is littered with rubble from the building
work which is going on, When you get on to the
road, you follow it, ignoring the many side turnings
which lead into the heart of the city. In these streets
there are dozens of Dark Elves on high scaffolds,
building twisted houses and passageways or carving
hideous statues and gargoyles. They are attended by
Dwarf slaves, who are being whipped and made to
work by Dark EIf slave-drivers.

As you walk along, a Dark FIf artisan emerges from
one of these streets, holding a small bundle wrapped
in sackcloth. He stops you and starts gabbling in his
own language. Since you have no idea what he is
saying, you demand that he speak Allansian.

‘Why am | have to speak this low tongue?’ he says,
looking angry and insulted. ‘I am stonemason, high-
born artist. Not warrior. It is lower than me.’ Will you
apologize to him (turn to 54) or pretend to be angry
and threaten him with your sword (tum to 139)?

oo

392

‘So you are not dead?’ says Liam when you contact
him. ‘The whole Council thought that you must be
and decided to go ahead with their own ideas.’ He
sighs. ‘And that’s how the war began.’ Knowing the
Forest as you do, and what it has become recently,
you are dismayed at this news. You ask Liam what
happened. ‘As we hit the Forest, he says, ‘so it hit
back.’ He breaks off and looks to one side. ‘Curse them
alll They’re here already.’ There is a crash, and you see
a Giant Spider scuttling towards Liam. ‘Goodbye,
Councillor, he says, and the image disappears.

Desperate to know what's happening, you call up the
astrologer again. But the voice just says: ‘There is no
one of that name living in Grimmund.’ After a
moment, it says dispassionately, “To whom do you
wish to speak? Turn back to 99 and make another
choice.

393-394

393

This goblet is filled with the blood of a Red Dragon.
Substances such as this are often used by seers to see
into far lands: using their mental powers, they can
nullify its poison and harness its strength. You, how-
ever, have no such abilities, and so you suffer its full
effects. You double over in intense agony, moaning
and retching {roll one die and deduct that many
points from your STAMINA). Once you have got the
red poison out of your system, the pain eases and you
can go on. Now turn back to gz and select another
item.

394
You follow Colrhyn’s Track as it leads you out of the

oppressive Forest and into the welcome openness of
the gently rising heather slopes. You are saddened to
feel this way about the Forest but are even more
determined to put things right, By the time you reach
the road, night is beginning to fall and the mountains
to the north look cold and forbidding as the sun's last
rays reflect off their snowy peaks. If you decide to
make camp by the side of the road for the night, tum
to 194. If you press on, will you go along the Fang-
thane Road towards Sardath (turn to 23) or north into
the mountains (tum to 301)?

395-396

You raise your head and force yourself to gaze at the
wild architecture of the Dark EIf lair; it makes your
mind reel, and you begin to lose all sense of who and
where you are, Test your Luck. lf you are Unlucky, you
feel an intense dizziness and start to stagger from one
side of the walkway to the other. Unable to stop
yourself, you stumble and pitch over the side — your
adventure is ended, If you are Lucky, you recover at
the last moment and find yourself gazing into what
looks like a bottomless abyss. Even though you have
survived this terrifyirig experience, you will still feel
disorientated for days (lose 1 skILL point). Obviously,
the only way you are going to get through this place
is by avoiding looking at your surroundings and
keeping your gaze firmly fixed on the ground immedi-
ately in front of you. If you ever change your mind
and decide to take a close look at the Dark EIE lair,
make a note of the number of the paragraph you are
treading at the time, then turn to 153 (make a note of
this number for future reference),

For now, you walk tentatively along the walkway,
keeping your eyes on the path just in front of you. lk
is unnerving not knowing where you are going but
you force yourself to walk ahead, Eventually the walk-
way you are on meets another. Will you go left (turn
to 358) or right (turn to r12)?

396
A place is made for you and you sit down. However,
as soon as you have settled, a mass of tentacles burst

397

out of the chair and writhe round your body. You
struggle, but they just get tighter. One of the Dark
Elves leans towards you

‘Il am not a warrior,’ he says, ‘so I'm afraid I haven't
learnt as much Allansian as you. Perhaps you misunder-
stood my invitation. I believe ] should have asked if
you would like to come as dinner.’ He smiles at you
mirthlessly, and begins to sharpen a long knife . .

397
You sail your boat carefully, negotiating the difficult

marshy waters of the Slykk territory. Once you are
clear of the marsh, you begin to relax, As you progress,
the river grows more and more choked with
unnatural-looking weeds, and strange eyes peer out
from the depths — not Slykk eyes, but other, stranger
things. It’s a good job that you are in a small boat, for
a larger merchant vessel would not be able to get
through. As evening approaches, you arrive at the
second rope-bridge You land the boat and set up
camp near by. This site is often used by traders and,
even though the Forest is becoming darker, it still
seems safe. You settle down to sleep.

The morning arrives {regain 2 STAMINA points and
tick off the next day on your Adventure Sheef), and
you are ready to start off again. Will you get back
in the boat and sail on up the river (tum to 361) or
leave the boat and walk north-east along the trail
{turn to 9)?

398-399

398

Foiled by your swift thinking, Morn screarns in some
unrecognizable language and charges after you. Roll
two dice for yourself, and two dice for Morn. If
Mom’s total is the higher, he catches you in the
coridor, diving on you and bringing you to the
ground (turn to 212). If the result is a draw, or your
total is the higher, you manage to get down the stairs
and into the Council Chamber (turn to 186)

As you walk into the slavers’ camp, you become very
aware of the large number of Dark Elves wandering
around. When one of them comes up and salutes you,
you have no option but to speak to him. You ask him
what he wants.

‘My Lord Chaugh, I am Baliel, the Chief Slaver. I am
conducting a sacrificial ceremony, and I need someone
of high rank to witness it.’ It would arouse Baliel’s
suspicion if you were to refuse, so you follow him into
a short tunnel in the wall of the cavern. There is
another Dark Elf here, staring at the strange, dark balls
of fungus that are growing on the walls and floor of
the tunnel. ‘As you see,’ says Baliel, ‘the Elf Bane is
growing weak and needs sustenance. Liethif has volun-
teered to sacrifice himself.’ He turns to the strange
martyr. ‘Liethif, your name will now carry the title of
Thane as witnessed by Lord Chaugh.’ Liethif bows to
the Dark Elf and walks into the middle of the fungus.
When he has taken just a few steps, many of the
fungal balls burst, ejecting huge clouds of spores.

399

Liethif breathes them in deeply, then lies down to
expire. Baliel salutes him and you copy his gesture.

Once it is all over, Baliel thanks you curtly for your
help, then leaves, If you enter the fungus tunnel to
search Liethif’s body, turn to 62. Otherwise, from what
you have seen, you are sure that the slavers’ camp has
nothing to offer you, so you decide to leave. Turn to
123.

—
‘
uv wa
s Ce Se
Se A
~ =
=
“«-
a.
(=
-_—s
ra
ny
&
—
=>"
=> 4
~~
| oe
=
Ss,
“

AB YAY,
ee es

a

400

400

Everywhere, Wood Elves and Dwarfs are fighting
Dark Elves. They have torn down a lot of the architec-
ture and you find you can now look around in comfort.
You walk along the walkways, striding through the
battle, delighting in what you have achieved. A grave
threat has been lifted from the peoples of north-east
Allansia, and it is unlikely that the Dark Elves will
return for some time.

All at once you see a massive form squeezing itself
through one of the archways that lead to the main
city, When he rises to his full eight metres, you
realize that this must be Corianthus, He edges towards
you on what to him must be a knife-edge. ‘Are you
the adventurer from Grimmund?’ he asks in a deep
booming voice, When you admit that you are, he
picks you up and holds you at eye level, ‘Thank you,
he says. “You have released me from a fate so terrible
that I had wished for death for many days. Now J am
glad to be alive. We are certain to win the battle, so
let’s you and I go up to my castle and celebrate.’
More Fighting Farttasy in Puffin

THE TROLLTOOTH WARS

Steve Jackson

It started with an ambush When Balthus Dire's bloodlusting Hill
Goblins mount their raid on the Strongarm caravan, little do they
realize what dramatic consequences their actions will have. For that
caravan carries Cunnelwort, a mystical herb from Eastern Allansia,
destined for none other than the evil sorceror, Zharradan Marr! War
— between two forces well-matched for evil — ls soon to ensue .
Will Balthus Dire’s chaotics or Zharradan Marr's undead prove vic-
torious? The answer is here, mn the first Fighting Fantasy novel.

DEMONSTEALER
Marc Gascoigne

It started with a burglary Bore aloft on the back of an immense
bat, a sinister thief breaks into the tower of the sorcerer Yaztromo.
Guided by long-dead voices, he manages to make off with an an-
cient scroll whose secrets could spell doom and destruction for all
Allansiat

Chadda Darkmane is soon on the trail of the thief, But as the quest
grows ever longer, his nagging doubts about the power of sorcery
turn into nightmares The trail leads far beyond northern Allansia, to
the Pirate Coast and the twisting alleyways of Rimon, where
Darkmane’s nightmares become flesh| For the thief has used the
ancient scrol] to summon others to help him in his sorcerous task,
Demons who are not bound by the constraints of earthly forms —
who feast on the human spirit

A few brave companions accompany Darkmane, but will they be
enough — and in time — to stop the thief from unlocking the final
secret of Yaztromo’s scroll? Demonstealer, the second Fighting
Fantasy novel in a series that began with The Troiltooth Wars, holds
all the answers
DUNGEONEER
Mare Gascoigne and Pete Tamlyn

Now you and your friends can create your own fantasy movies!
Imagine that you are the director and your friends are the cast of
heroes. Will you send them to battle with the evil wizard or recover
the Dragons’ hoard? The choice is yours, and Dungeoreer makes the
exciting world of fantasy role-playing accessible in a thoroughly
user-friendly manner

BLACKSAND!
Mare Gascoigne and Pete Tamlyn

Sprawling like the corpse of some giant creature, Port Blacksand is a
festering den of pirates and brigands Unforeseen dangers lurk
around every street corner and in every dark alleyway Devious
plots and crimes are hatched in every tavern, Thieves and assassins
slip through the shadows Ancient mysteries lurk in the cellars and
sewers. But the infamous City of Thieves is also home to excitement
and adventure beyond compare!

The second volume in the Advanced Fighting Fantasy series which
started with Dungeoneer.
FIGHTING FANTASY
The Introductory Role-playing Game
Steve Jackson

Thrilling adventures of sword and sorcery come ta life in the Fight-
ing Fantasy Gamebooks, where the reader is the hero, dicing with
death and demons in search of villains, treasure or freedom. Now
YOU can create your own Fighting Fantasy adventures and send
your friends off on dangerous missions! In this clearly written hand-
book there are hints on devising combats, monsters to use, tricks
and tactics, as well as two mini-adventures,

THE RIDDLING REAVER
Steve Jackson

Four Fighting Fantasy episodes to be played as separate adventures
or as stages in an epic adventure, The Riddling Reaver is a rival
worthy of the most daring adventurers, His mind is inscrutable —
but there is no doubt about the chaos he plans to unleash on the
world. He must be stopped, despite the hazards of the task!

A follow-up to Fighting Fantasy: The Introductory Role-playing Game,
it contains instructions and scenarios so that you can conjure up
adventures for your friends and send them on their most dangerous
and puzzling mission yet. ‘

OUT OF THE PIT
Fighting Fantasy Monsters

Steve Jackson and lan Livingstone

From the darkest corners, from the deepest pools and from the
dungeons thought only to exist in nightmares come the Fighting
Fantasy monsters — the downfall of many a brave warnor. Two
hundred and fifty of these loathsome creatures from the wild and
dangerous worlds of Fighting Fantasy are collected here — some are
ald adversaries, many you have yet to meet — each of them de-
scribed in minute detail An indispensable guide for Fighting
Fantasy adventurers?

TITAN
The Fighting Fantasy World

Steve Jackson and lan Livingstone
edited by Mare Gascoigne

You met the monsters m Oxt of the Pit ~ now meet the rest of the
Fighting Fantasy world! No adventurer should be without this es-
sential guide. It contains everything you need to know, covering
the turbulent history of the world, from its creation and early civiliz-
ations ~ through the devastating War of the Wizards — to the
present-day wilderness and anarchy where the delicate balance be-
tween Good and Chaos could at any moment be overtumed
