“+¢

)

a4:

FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS

Over 12 million copies sold worldwide!

— —

fen years on and Zagor lives!

The diabolical reign of the evil sorcerer,

-Zagor, was ended ten years ago by a heroic

adventurer who braved the countless perils al
Firetop Mountain. By the power of dark
sorcery, the erazed wizard has returned trom
the dead and intends to wreak his revenge
upon all Allansia. Some brave adventurer —
YOU! — must enter the forbidding labyrinth
and bring justice once more to the master of
Firetop Mountam!

Part story, part game, this 1s a book in which

YOU are the hero! Two dice, a pencil and an

eraser are ull you need. YOU decide whieh

routes ta take, which dangers to risk
and which foes to fight.

Dare YOU return to Firetop Mountais!

Cwevn iinet Py be Reteeitel

A PUFFIN BOOK cone it

un 09 |
CAN Ve ‘ 4

Puffin Books

RETURN TO FIRETOP MOUNTAIN

Firetop Mountain, the forbidding peak whose dark shadow once
cast gloom over the whole of Northern Allansia, has been quiet
for ten years. It has been that long since the diabolical reign of
the evil sorcerer, Zagor, was ended by a heroic adventurer who
braved the countless perils of the dungeons beneath the mountain
and succeeded where so many had failed before.

But now, resurrected by the power of dark sorcery, Zagor has
risen from the dead! More evil than before, the crazed wizard is
intent upon wreaking his revenge upon all Allansia. He must be
stopped, and for good this time. Some brave adventurer —
YOU! — must enter the forbidding labyrinth and bring justice
once more to the lord of Firetop Mountain!

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you need to embark on
this thrilling adventure, which comes complete with its own
elaborate combat system and a score sheet to record your
progress.

Many dangers lie ahead and your success is anything but
certain. Sinister enemies are ranged against you; it’s up to YOU
to decide which route to follow, which dangers to risk and
which foes to fight. Beware: Zagor will not be so easy to defeat
a second time!

lan Livingstone is the co-founder, with Steve Jackson, of Games
Workshop, the hugely successful chain which specializes in
fantasy games of all kinds.

Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks

1. THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP
MOUNTAIN
2. THE CITADEL OF CHAOS
3. THE FOREST OF DOOM
4. STARSHIP TRAVELLER
5. CITY OF THIEVES
6 DEATHTRAP DUNGEON
7 ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING
& SCORPION SWAMP
g. CAVERNS OF THE SNOW
WITCH
ao. HOUSE OF HELL
11 TALISMAN OF DEATH
12, 5PACE ASSASSIN
13, FREEWAY FIGHTER
14. TEMPLE OF TERROR
15. THE RINGS OF KETHER ~“
16. SEAS OF BLOOD
17 APPOINTMENT WITH FEAR
18 REBEL PLANET
1g. DEMONS OF THE DEEP
zo. SWORD OF THE SAMURAI
22 TRIAL OF CHAMPIONS
22, ROBOT COMMANDO
23. MASKS OF MAYHEM
24 CREATURE OF HAVOC
25. BENEATH NIGHTMARE
CASTLE

Steve Jackson's SORCERY!
1. THE SHAMUTANTI HILLS
2. KHARE - CITYPORT OF TRAPS

26, CRYPT OF THE SORCERER

27.5TAR STRIDER

28. PHANTOMS OF FEAR

29, MIDNIGHT ROGUE

30, CHASMS OF MALICE

4t. BATTLEBLADE WARRIOR

32, SLAVES OF THE ABYSS

33. SKY LORD

34. STEALER OF SOULS

35. DAGGERS OF DARKNESS

36. ARMIES OF DEATH

37. PORTAL OF EVIL

38. VAULT OF THE VAMPIRES

39. FANGS OF FURY

40, DEAD OF NIGHT

41, MASTER OF CHAOS

42. BLACK VEIN PROPHECY

43. THE KEEP OF THE LICH-LORD

44. LEGEND OF THE SHADOW
WARRIORS

45. SPECTRAL STALKERS

46. TOWER OF DESTRUCTION

ae THE CRIMSON TIDE

48. MOONRUNNER

40 SIEGE OF SARDATH

«o RETURN TO FIRETO?
MOUNTAIN

3. THE SEVEN SERPENTS
4, THE CROWN OF KINGS

FIGHTING FANTASY — The Introductory Role-playing Game
THE RIDDLING REAVER — Four Thrilling Adventures

The Advanced Fighting Fantasy System

DUNGEONEER = An Introduction to Advanced Fighting Fantasy
BLACKSANDI — More Advanced Fighting Fantasy
OUT OF THE PIT - Fighting Fantasy Monsters

TITAN — The Fighting Fantasy World

The Fighting Fantasy Novels

THE TROLLTOOTH WARS — Chaos Invades Allansia
DEMONSTEALER — Chadda Darkmane Returns
SHADOWMASTER — Chadda Darkmane and Death

RETURN TO

FIRETOP MOUNTAIN

Ian Livingstone

Illustrated by Martin McKenna

PUFFIN BOOKS

To all members of my Ultra 30 Race Team
without whom
this book would not have been necessary!

PUFFIN BOOKS

Published by the Penguin Group
Penguin Books Ltd, 27 Wrights Lane, London w8 572, England
Pengutn Books USA Inc., 375 Hudeon Street, New York, New York 10014, USA
Penguin Books Australia Ltd Ringwood, Vicloria, Australia
Penguin Books Canada Ltd. 10 Alcom Avenue, Toronic, Ontario, Canada magy 502
Penguin Books (NZ) Ltd, 262-190 Waireu Road, Auckland 10, New Zealand

Penguin Books Ltd Registered Offices: Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England

First published 1992
t3579%10B64 2

Text copyright @° lan Livingstone, 1992
(llustrations copyngh! ¢} Marhn McKenna, 1992
Map copyright (> Leo Harlas, zap
All nghts reserved

The moral nght of the author has been asserted

Printed in England by Clays Ltd, Si Ives ple
Filmset in Monopheto Palatino

Except in the United States of Amenra, this book ts sold subyect
to the condition that it shall nok, by way of trade or otherwise, be lent,
te-sold, hired out, or olherwise circulated wilhout the publisher's
prior consent in any form of binding or cover other than that In
which it is published and without a similar condilion including this
condilion being imposed on the subsequent purchaser

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION
7)

ADVENTURE SHEET
14

BACKGROUND
16

RETURN TO FIRETOP MOUNTAIN
20
INTRODUCTION

Before embarking on your adventure, you must first
determine your own strengths and weaknesses. Use dice
to determine your initial scores. On pages 14—15 there is
an Adventure Sheet which you may use to record the
details of an adventure. On it you will find boxes for
recording your SKILL, STAMINA and LUCK scores.

You are advised either to record your scores on the
Adventure Sheet in pencil or to make photocopies of
the sheet for use in future adventures.

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter this total
in the skKILt box on the Adventure Sheet.

Roll two dice. Add 12 to the number rolled and enter
this total in the sTAMINA box.

There is also a tuck box. Roll one die, add 6 to this
number and enter this total in the Luck box.

For reasons that will be explained below, skILL,
STAMINA and Luck scores change constantly during an
adventure. You must keep an accurate record of these
scores and for this reason you are advised either to
write small in the boxes or to keep an eraser handy.
But never rub out your Jnitial scores,

“I

Although you may be awarded additional sxitt,
STAMINA and LUCK points, these totals may never
exceed your Inifial scores, except on very rare occa-
sions, when you will be instructed on a particular

page.

Your sKILL score reflects your swordsmanship and
general fighting expertise; the higher the better. Your
STAMINA score Teflects your general constitution, your
will to survive, your determination and overall fitness;
the higher your STAMINA score, the longer you will be
able to survive. Your LucK score indicates how natu-
rally lucky a person you are. Luck — and magic — are
facts of life in the fantasy kingdom you are about to ex-
plore.

Battles

You will often come across pages in the book which
instruct you to fight a creature of some sort, An
option to flee may be given, but if not — or if you
choose to attack the creature anyway — you must
resolve the battle as described below.

First record the creature’s SKILL and STAMINA scores
in the first vacant Monster Encounter Box on
your Adventure Sheet. The scores for each creature
are given in the book each time you have an encoun-
ter.

The sequence of combat is then:
1. Roll both dice once for the creature. Add its

8

SKILL score. This total is the creature’s Attack
Strength.

2. Roll both dice once for yourself. Add the number
rolled to your current skitl score. This total is
your Attack Strength.

3. If your Attack Strength is higher than that of your
opponent, you have wounded it. Proceed to step 4.
If the creature's Attack Strength is higher than
yours, it has wounded you, Proceed to step 5. If
both Attack Strength totals are the same, you have
avoided each other's blows —~ start the next Attack
Round from step 1 above.

4. You have wounded the creature, so subtract 2
points from its sTAMINA score. You may use your
LucK here to do additional damage (see over).
Proceed to step 6.

5. The creature has wounded you, so subtract 2 points
from your own STAMINA score. Again you may
use LUCK at this stage (see over).

6. Make the appropriate adjustments to either the
creature's or your Own STAMINA score (and to your
LUCK score if you used LUCK — see over).

7. Begin the next Attack Round by returning to step
1. This sequence continues until the sTAMINA score
of either you or the creature you are fighting has
been reduced to zero (death).

Fighting More Than One Creature

If you come across more than one creature in a
particular encounter, the instructions on that page will

9

——EeEEE——————————————————— SESS
tell you how to handle the battle. Sometimes you will
treat them as a single monster; sometimes you will
fight each one in turn.

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either in
battles or when you come across situations in which
you could either be lucky or unlucky (details of these
are given on the pages themselves), you may call on
your luck to make the outcome more favourable. But
beware! Using luck is a risky business and if you are
unlucky, the results could be disastrous.

The procedure for using your luck is as follows: roll
two dice. If the number rolled is less than or equal to
your current LUCK score, you have been Lucky and
the result will go in your favour. If the number rolled
is higher than your current LUCK score, you have been
Unlucky and you will be penalized.

This procedure is known as Testing your Luck. Each
time you Test your Luck, you must subtract 1 point
from your current Luck score. Thus you will soon
realize that the more you rely on your luck, the more
risky this will become.

Using Luck in Battles
In certain paragraphs of the book you will be told to
Test your Luck and will be told the consequences of
your being Lucky or Unlucky. However, in battles you
always have the option of using your luck either to
inflict a more serious wound on a creature you have

10

just wounded, or to minimize the effects of a wound
your opponent has just inflicted on you.

If you have just wounded the creature, you may
Test your Luck as described above. If you are Lucky,
you have inflicted a severe wound and may sub-
tract an extra 2 points from the creature’s STAMINA
score. However, if you are Unlucky, the wound was
a mere graze and you must restore 1 point to the
creature’s STAMINA (ie., instead of scoring the
normal 2 points of damage, you have now scored
only 1).

If the creature has just wounded you, you may Test
your Luck to try to minimize the wound. If you are
Lucky, you have managed to avoid the full damage of
the blow; restore 1 point of STAMINA {ie., instead of
doing 2 points of damage, it has done only 1). If you

Ii
are Unlucky, you have taken a more serious blow.
Subtract 1 extra STAMINA point,

Remember that you must subtract 1 point from your
OWN LUCK score each time you Test your Luck.

Restoring Skill, Stamina and Luck

Skill

Your sxilt score will not change much during your
adventure. Occasionally, a paragraph may give instruc-
tions to increase or decrease your skit, score. A
Magic Weapon may increase your skitt — but remem-
ber that only one weapon can be used at a time! You
cannot claim 2 sxitt bonuses for carrying 2 Magic
Swords. Your SK1Lt score can never exceed its Initia!
value unless you are specifically instructed otherwise.

Stamina
Your STAMINA score will change a lot during your
adventure as you fight monsters and undertake arduous
tasks “As you near your goal, your STAMINA level
may become dangerously low and battles may be
particularly risky, so be careful!

Unlike other Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks, in this
adventure you do not begin with any Provisions.
However, during the course of the adventure, you will
have opportunities to regain stamina points in vari-
ous ways,

Tz

Remember also that your stAMINA score may never
exceed its Initial value unless you are instructed to the
contrary in a specific paragraph,

Luck
Additions to your Luck score are awarded during
the adventure when you have been particularly lucky,
Details are given in the paragraphs of the book.
Remember that, as with seine and STAMINA, your
LUCK score may never exceed its Initial value unless
you are specifically instructed otherwise.

Equipment
Your start your adventure with the basic tools of your
trade: a fine sword: clothes suitable for travelling: a

backpack to hold your Provisions and any treasure
you may come across; and a lantern to light your way,

ADVENTURE SHEET

Se

MONSTER ENCOUNTER BOXES

—_
STAMINA LUCK Skill=
Initial lattial

Stamina= Luck= Slamina=

WEAPONS:

i EQUIPMENT:

ARMOUR

TREASURE:

saAil=

sianina=

Skilt=

Stamina

Skill=

Stamina=

Skilt=

Stamina=

B Skitl=

Stattina=

—_———

Seill=

siamina=

Skil=

Stamina=

Skills

Stamina=

Skall=

Stamina=

Skitl=

Stamina=

Skill=

Stamina=

1

BACKGROUND

Ten years is not a long time in a wizard’s life — some
live for over two hundred years, keeping themselves
alive by their own magic and potions. There is a well-
known saying among wizards which goes: ‘You're a
long time dead, so let’s live insteadt' Some wizards
even went one step further: they cast a spell on
themselves so that, in the event of their being slain or
assassinated, they were able to raise themselves after a
predetermined time when their assailant was long
gone, The wizards who chose to come back from the
dead were, however, always aligned to evil, for it was
dark magic that was needed to cheat death. One of
those wizards was known (and feared) by the name of
Zagor, the infamous Warlock of Firetop Mountain.
Ten years have passed since the day when he was
killed by a brave adventurer who risked the guards
and deadly traps deep inside Firetop Mountain to save
Allansia from his evil magic. But killing Zagor is one
thing; keeping him dead is another. Nobody knew that
Zagor had cast the Raise Dead Spell on himself,
otherwise the adventurer who killed him would have
sealed him inside his mountain tomb.

But all that was ten years ago. In the last six months,
sinister events have begun to happen around Firetop
Mountain. First, the top of the mountain, which was
famous for its red-coloured bracken, has turned deathly

16

black. Livestock which have grazed on and around the
mountain for decades have started to die a sickening
death, and recently people have even disappeared,
dragged inside the mountain (it is said) by hideous
creatures of the night. Those good people who remain
are terrified, for it is rumoured that Zagor has risen
and is building himself a new body, bit by bit, from
the unfortunate villagers of Anvil!

You are an adventurer, a sword for hire, wandering
through the lands. Coming to the village of Anvil, you
decide to stop for a rest after your week-long march.
However, as soon as you enter the village you sense
that all is not well. The villagers look frightened and
women quickly push their children indoors as you
walk along the main street. You decide that the local
tavern would be the best place to find out what is
troubling the villagers, so you enter the Two Moons.
The chatter inside dies down quickly to a low munmur
and the customers eye you as you walk up to the bar.
The barman stares at you sternly, and you can see by
the look in his eyes that he is a proud man trying to
hide his fear.

‘Yes?’ he grunts in a low voice.

You tell him that you are an adventurer seeking a new
quest that will end in riches and honour. He frowns,
not knowing whether to trust you.

‘Does the name Zagor mean anything to you?’ he asks
softly, watching you closely for a reaction.

‘Zagor, you reply confidently, ‘was the Warlock of
Firetop Mountain until he was slain, ten years ago.’

17
‘Is the Warlock of Firetop Mountain,’ the barman says
dramatically. ‘He’s come back to life! He is building
himself a new body and is sending his evil servants to
Anvil to take back live donors!’

The barman seems to accept you as a friend and
quickly goes on to tell you about the doom that has
befallen Anvil, thanks to Zagor

‘We need help, stranger!’ he says desperately. ‘None of
us here has the power to defeat Zagor ... but maybe
you do. We are poor and cannot pay you what you
deserve to take on such a task, but we do know that
there are chests full of gold inside Firetop Mountain.
Will you help us?’

By now the tavern is silent. All eyes are upon you.
How can you let them down? Slowly you smile and
nod your head.

‘On one condition,’ you say.
‘Name it,’ the barman replies.

‘That I get a hot bath and a room for the night!’ you
laugh.

‘Done?’

Everyone in the tavern lets out a cheer, and they all
gather round to slap you on the back and offer to buy
you some ale,

In the morning you find the barman, whose name you
learn is Moose, cooking a large breakfast for you.

‘You must set off south immediately to visit the grand

18

wizard Yaztromo. He alone can prepare you for such
an adversary as Zagor. Don’t even think about tackling
Zagor on your own. He is stronger than ever and his
magic is deadly,’ Moose says eamestly.

You thank him for his advice and bid him farewell.
Now tum to paragraph r.
I-24

I
Leaving Anvil and its villagers behind, you set off east
deep in thought. Firetop Mountain is only a short
distance from Anvil, but to go all the way to Yaz-
tromo’s Tower first would mean losing many days’
valuable time. How could Yaztromo help? Ever since
he single-handedly defeated eight ghoulish Dark Elves
on the edge of Darkwood Forest, the place where he
built his famous tower, his reputation has grown.
Wise, good, powerful, philanthropic and many other
words were used to describe the great Yaztromo.
Many sought his help against evil and none were
turned away. Suddenly there is a shout from behind
you. You spin around, to see Moose running towards
you. You notice that his sword is drawn and there is a
look of alarm on his face.

‘Zagor will know of your plan unless we can catch the
two Trackers I saw running from Anvil, a few minutes
ago. They must have overheard us and are running
back to inform Zagor. Quick, follow me, we must
catch them,’ Moose says hurriedly, still panting. He
runs off into the undergrowth, shouting at you to
follow him. If you wish to do so, turn to 341. If you
would rather continue to walk along the path alone,
turn to 161.

2
Now the undead Chaos Warrior can be defeated only by
piercing its heart. As it lumbers towards you with its
great sword outstretched, you try an upward thrust with
your sword in order to strike under its breastplate,

3-5

UNDEAD
CHAOS WARRIOR SKILL 10

If you win an Attack Round, the Chaos Warrior does
not lose sTAMINA points. Instead, you must roll! one
die: a roll of 1-4 means that you missed its heart; a
roll of 5 or 6 means that your blow pierced its heart
and kills it. If you win, turn to 88.

STAMINA O

3
On turning the corner, you come across an old wooden

bench above which there is a sign, but the painted
words on the sign have all but flaked off. All you can
make out is the first word, which is ‘Rest’. If you want
to sit down on the bench, turn to 211. If you would
tather walk on, turn to 162.

4
It is not long before you arrive at a great iron door in

the right-hand wall. The door is firmly locked, but
there is a large keyhole in the door. If you have an
iron key, turn to the paragraph number that is inscribed
on the key. If you do not have an iron key, you will
have to walk on (turn to 172).

As you lean over the rack and reach for the skeleton’s |

finger, you hear a smothered laugh coming from
above. Looking up, you see a weighted net dropping
down on top of you. Roll two dice. If the total is less
than or equal to your skILL, turn to 339. if the total is
greater than your SKILL, fur to 2§2.

&

Not wishing to draw attention to yourself, you tell the
Barbarian that you will be back later to deal with him.
You gulp down a mug of water to get rid of the taste
of the eyeballs and now, although you are bloated, at
least you have eaten. Regain 1 STAMINA point. You
walk past the Lizard Men guards and turn right into
the tunnel (turn to 304).

You wait for a gap to appear between the worms on
the floor, then you jump. The Sucker Worms show no
interest in you, preferring to feast on the dead flesh of
the dog. However, one of the worms has roiled over
on top of the box. Will you wait for it to slide off the
box (tum to 307) or hack at it with your sword

straight away (turn to 396)?

8
As soon as you touch the wizard’s hand, he starts to
laugh out loud. His body starts to shimmer and soon

9

you are able to see right through him; this is because you
are shaking the hand of a doppelganger, not the hand of
Yaztromo. The ghost-like figure has the ability to drain
you of your life; when you look down, you see that your
own body is tuning transparent too. You try to pull
your hand away but it is too late. You are doomed to
live in a twilight world forever. Your adventure is over.

9
Coming from above you hear the sound of hands
clapping, and look up to see the Pitmaster smiling. He
drops a rope down to you and you climb up out of
the pit. He leads you over to the second pit, saying,
‘Your next opponent has cunning and deception as
well as strength. The Metallix is not what it seems.’

You look down into the pit and discover a sinewy-
looking creature, no more than a metre tall. With its
large, soulful eyes and drooping mouth it looks
almost harmless. Remembering the Pitmaster’s warn-
ing, however, you jump down into the pit, sword in
hand. The Metallix does not flinch and appears almost
unconcerned by your arrival. You walk towards the
Metallix — and still it doesn’t move. You raise your
sword above your head, ready to strike. But then it
crosses your mind that perhaps the Metallix wants you

10-13

to strike it. If you want to try to cut off its head, turn
to 195. If you would rather pick a rock up off the floor
and throw it at the beast to get it to move, turn to

279.

10

You know you will have only a few minutes to escape
before the Mummies come back to life. Spying the door at
the end of the hallway, you make a quick exit {turn to 102).

II
As the morning wears on, dark clouds appear overhead
and the wind quickly picks up. The unstable boat is
caught by a sudden gust and tilts disconcertingly over
to one side. If the crew consists of five or fewer
members (including yourself), turn to 54. If there are
more than five crew left on board, turn to 312.

12

You place your treasure in your backpack, unaware
that one of the diamonds has been treated with evil
magic; it is likely that sooner or later you will meet an
untimely death. For now, you must choose which way
to go: if you want to enter the left-hand tunnel, turn
to 124; if you prefer to enter the right-hand tunnel,
turn to 38.

13
You soon come to another door, but this time there is
no window to look through. You press your ear to the
door and hear what sounds like somebody moaning in
pain. If you want to open the door, tum to 118. If you
would rather walk on, turn to 387.

14-15

T4

You whip the dagger out of your boot and throw it at
the rat. At such short range you can hardly miss, and
you skewer it to the floor. The piece of tooth rolls on
to the floor just in time to reléase the Fire Elemental,
as the massive Earth Elemental is descending on you.
The Fire Elemental wraps its fiery arm round the waist
of the Earth Elemental and tries to lift it off the
ground; at the same time it is being pounded by
gigantic stone fists. The battle rages for some minutes,
until finally the Earth Elemental crumbles into a heap
of broken boulders and scorched earth. The flame dies
and you look up to the throne where Zagor sits,
looking ill-at-ease.

He begins to chant again. He has decided to copy you,
and suddenly a jet of flarne shoots out of the floor at the
bottom of the steps. Another fiery humanoid has been
summoned, a Fire Elemental, the last of his Elementals
of Chaos. If you have one more golden dragon’s tooth,
you must throw it on the floor to defend yourself
against the demon fire. If you have the right tooth, tum
to the paragraph which has the same number as the one
on the tooth. If you do not have the tooth, turn to 365.

TS
With not a moment to spare, you take the garlic out
of your backpack and thrust it out in front of you to
halt the Gorgon ... but garlic is useful only against
the Undead; it is useless against a creature like a
Gorgon. Transfixed by fear, you stare blankly at the
monster towering above you. Turn to 265.

16-18

16
The acid continues to burn — but there is nothing you
can do about it. It burns right through your cheek
enters your mouth and starts to trickle down your
throat, No amount of coughing and spitting can save
you. Your adventure is over.

17

With lightning speed you clutch at your throat and
manage to tear the rat away before it is able to wound
you. You fling it té the floor then bring the heel of
your boot down hard on top of it, crushing it out of
shape. Cursing the Goblins, you leave the cellar and
walk back to the path in order to continue south (tum
to 238).

18

You discover many strange titles on the book shelves:
Casket of Souls, Transmutation, The Dark Light and
Vampire Blood are just a few, but the one that catches
your attention is a tiny leather-bound book entitled
Eye of the Dragon. You open it at random, but the
print is too small to read. If you have a magnifying
glass and wish to read the book, turn to 53. If you
would rather read Vampire Blood, turn to 290.

Ig-21

19
Among boulders set back some thirty metres from the
path, you see a drawing roughly daubed in white
paint on a small rock. If you want to take a closer look
at the drawing, tum to 171, If you would rather press
on towards Firetop Mountain, turn to 64.

20
The staff is made of polished hawthorn. with a skull
carved from bone fixed on top; you decide to take it
with you. If you haven't done so already, you may
take the lid off the basket (turn to 107), Otherwise,

there is nothing for you to do except fo pursue the
Death Lords (turn to 219).

21
You fill the bucket with straw from the bed and set it
on fire, using the torch that is set in the wall. As the
smoke begins to fill the cell and stream out between
the cell door bars, you start shouting. You hear the
Goblin curse and stand by the side of the door, ready
to leap on the Goblin if it falls for your trick. To find
out how stupid the Goblin is, roll two dice. If the total
rolied is 7 or less, turn to 207. If the total is &~r2, turn

to 343

22-23

22
You quickly take the bell out of your backpack and
shake it vigorously. A magical note rings out and the
witch covers her ears, trying to shut out the pure
sound. She staggers backwards and starts to scream,
before collapsing to the floor, unconscious. The Dog
Beast appears unharmed by the bell’s ringing. It drops
the bowl it is carrying and charges at you, swinging a
ball and chain.

MUTANT DOG BEAST _ sxkiL_8
If you win, turn to 282.

STAMINA §

23
You come to the end of the tunnel, where it joins a

cross-tunnel, An iron portcullis blocks your way and
it is far too heavy to lift. On the wall to your right
are two levers. On closer inspection you see that
the left-hand one is a dummy made out of old black
wax — a trap laid many years ago. You decide to
pull the other lever. Slowly and noisily the portcullis
rises into the ceiling and you walk safely under it.
Looking to the left, you see that the tunnel ends at
the mass of rubble of a cave-in. Looking right, the tun-
nel continues for thirty metres before bearing left.
If you want to go to the left to the end of the tunnel,
burn to 308. If you want to go right, turn to 3.

24

24
The box contains bits and pieces that the Chaos
Warrior must have collected over the years. Among
the items you find a rat’s skull, a copper bracelet, 3 Gold
Pieces, 2 Silver Pieces, a page from a tiny book, a
horseshoe, a calling horn, and a silver pendant on a
beaded cord. You put them all inte your backpack
except the page from the book, the copper bracelet
and the silver pendant. Will you now:

Read the page from the book?
Put the copper bracelet on your

wrist? Turn to 62
Hang the pendant round your neck? Turn to 105
Put the bracelet and the pendant in

Tum to 322

your backpack? Turn to 313
Take a look at the weapons, if you

have not done so already? Turn to 206
Leave the room and walk on up the

tunnel? Turn to 1§1

25-27

25 ;
Although in pain, you fight blindly on, swinging your
sword from side to side.

GORGON

Each time you lose an Attack Round, you will also
suffer bites from the Gorgon’s snakes. Roll one die and
deduct that number of points fom your sTAMINA. If
you win, tum to 79.

SKILL 10 STAMINA 8

26

You take the article out of your backpack and hand it
to the Troglodyte, who examines it with a smile on
his face. (Remove the item from your Equipment List.)
You explain to the Troglodyte that, regrettably, you
do not have time to stay and watch the compettion,
but he is too engrossed in admiration of the’ prize to
hear you as you slip quietly out of the room and turn
right along the tunnel (turn to 304).

27
‘You drop the tooth on the floor and watch it break in
two. A fountain of water shoots up out of the floor

27

and rises, forming into the shape of a liquid Titan.
Suddenly it flows forward and crashes down on top of
the Fire Elemental in a giant cloud of steam. The
Water Elemental hisses loudly as it battles with the
flames. For a moment it looks as if the Water Elemental
will boil away to nothing, but gradually the flares die
down and go out. Quiet returns to the hall as the
Water Elemental retreats to the tooth. When the steam
clears, you see Zagor standing at the base of the steps.
He looks shaken and stands with his head a little
down. Perhaps his magic power is all but spent?

‘We will finish this battle with a duel,’ he says sol-
emnly. ‘We will fight with long knives and wearing no
armour. Accept this challenge or with my last energies
I will crush you with a thunderbolt. We are equals,
you and I, and we must fight on equal terms. It is the
struggle between Chaos and Order we must decide. If
1 win, Chaos will swallow Allansia, If I lose, Order will
return. Prepare to die! Chaos awaits Allansial’ Zagor
removes his robes and stands, bare chested, before
you. Ugly red scars cover his body as a result of the
many transplants he has recently received. The skeletal
stump that is his left arm protrudes awkwardly from
his shoulder. You shudder at the sight of him; you
know you must accept his challenge, so you remove
your armour. Zagor throws you a knife and walks
slowly towards you. The fate of Allansia rests on this

final battle.

ZAGOR SKILL 11 STAMINA 18

If you win, turn to 400.
28—29

28

After gathering some wood, you soon have a fire
buming. You settle back against the boulder and are
soon fast asleep. Unknown to you, however, the wood
has been left there on purpose by one of Zagor’s
servants. The flames start to jump about and then take
on the shape of a small, human-shaped being. The Fire
Sprite leaps out of the fre and grabs your outstretched
arms. Deduct 3 points from your STAMINA, You awake
in pain, trying desperately to shake the Fire Sprite off
your arm, but it does not loosen its flaming grip. Will
you attack it with your sword (turn to 193) or try to
smother it with your blanket (turn to 98)?

29

‘So!’ shouts the hunchback, ‘you are in the employ of
Zagor, are you? Well, any servant of Zagor is an
enemy of mine.’ Before you have time to explain, the
old man hits you across the back with his crooked
stick. This is no ordinary stick, however, but a wither-
ing stick! The blow in itself is not too painful, but your
back seems to bend and contract, quickly stiffening
and locking in its new position, and you find yourself
unable to stand up straight. Deduct 2 points from your
SKILL. You draw your sword and shout at the old man
to undo the damage he has done you.

‘Come another step closer and I'll whack you again,
you evil leech!’ the hunchback shouts back, If you wish
to attack the old man, tum to 205. If you would rather
try to reason with him again, tum to 301.
50-31

30
The ring you are wearing allows you to see through
illusions. The image of the woman and the young boy
slowly fade away, revealing their true identities. In
front of you stands a hideous-looking hunchbacked
witch. Her wiry, bent and hairy fingers end in long,
dirty nails. Her eyes are dark and hollow and her
clothes are tattered rags. Her servant is a mutant beast
with a human torso and a dog’s head. All at once you
hear a voice inside your head, a warning from the ring,
crying out, ‘Ring the bell! Ring the bell!’

If you are carrying a silver bell, turn to 22. If you are
not carrying a bell, turn to 228.

31
You turn your head away before the hideous creature
can look you in the eyes, knowing that catching her
glance for just a second wil] be enough to turn you to

32-34

stone. You must act quickly to defeat her. Will you
attack her with your sword, with your free hand
covering your eyes (tum to 393), or search your
backpack for an itern to use against her (turn to 66)?

32
You soon arrive at another door, this time in the right-
hand wall of the tunnel. If you want to open the door,
turn to 144. If you would rather walk on, tum to 97.

33

You prise the lid off the box with the tip of your
sword, and you discover a small leather pouch inside.
The pouch contains a small wooden ball and a small
wooden brick. Deciding to keep them, you put them
in your pocket. If you have not done so already, you
may now examine the clay pots (turn to 386) or go to
sleep (turn to 9§). If you would rather find somewhere
else to sleep, turn to 180.

34
You whip the dagger out of your boot and throw it at
the Goblin. Roll two dice. If the total is less than or
equal to your SKILL, turn to 371. If the total is greater
than your SKILL, turn to 130.
35-36

35
The daggers held in the tight grip of the Death Head
stop glowing and turn black. You decide against pick-
ing them up. If you have not done so already, you
may now smash the red pot (turn to 41). Otherwise,
there is nothing for you to do except walk over to the
new door in the other room (turn to 347).

36

‘So, you must indeed be a Friend,’ Zoot says excitedly.
‘Alas, I will not be able to recognize you. While I was
flying back to Kaad on my giant eagle, a Fire Dragon
attacked. I was blinded and my beautiful eagle was
badly burnt. We crash-landed in some trees. The eagle
in her last heroic moment saved my life but gave up
her own, trying to shield me. An Orc patrol picked me
up and brought me here, gleefully telling me that my
left arm was to be sewn on to Zagor in place of his
own rotten bones. Set me free and I'll help you defeat
this evil warlock.’ You prise open his iron shackles and
help him to his feet. ‘I may be blind but I'm still a Half-
EIf. My sense of touch may well prove useful in this
trap-infested hell-hole. Let’s go.’

You lead Zoot out of the room and turn right along
the tunnel which ends, however, at a stone wall. There
are footprints on the floor, which all point towards the
end wall, You tell Zoot that you think there may be a
secret door in the wall. He runs his fingers slowly over
the wall, searching for hairline cracks, He soon finds a
loose stone and carefully pulls it out. There is an iron
handle in the recess.

36

This handle will open the secret door, but I think
there’s a hidden trap attached to it. There may be
another way of opening the door.’ At the foot of the
wall he finds another loose stone with another handle
behind it. ‘This will be the one, I’m sure. Hello, I've
found something else. Here, take a look and tell me
what it is.’

It is a large tooth made of solid gold which has the
number ‘186’ stamped on it. Add 1 point to your
LUCK,

Zoot smiles when you describe it to him. ‘Stand back
while I turn this handle. You never know, I’ve been
wrong before.’

He turns the handle and you hear a click. The secret
door swings open inwards — but at the same time the
floor stone on which Zoot is standing drops away
beneath him. You hear his loud scream fade away as
he falls to his death at the bottom of a spiked pit
Spurred on by sudden anger, you leap across the pit
and through the doorway, landing safely in a cross-
tunnel. The secret door swings slowly back and slams
shut, and now you cannot even tell that it is there.

Looking to the left, you see an iron portcullis in the
left-hand wall of the tunnel which goes on for another
twenty metres before ending at the mass of rubble of
a cave-in. Looking right, the tunnel continues for
twenty metres before turning left. If you want to take
a look at the portcullis, tum to 253. If you would
rather go to the right, turn to 3.
37-39

37
A few metres up the tunnel you see three doors in the
right-hand wall. You walk up to the first door and
press your ear against it, but you can hear nothing.
The handle turns in your hand. Will you open the
door (turn to 389) or walk on to the second door (turn
to 56)?

38

You step warily into the torchlit tunnel. In the distance
you can see that the tunnel opens out into another
cavern, lined with bookshelves that are crammed with
hundreds of books. Standing in the middle of the cavern
is a black-robed person whose folded arms are con-
cealed in baggy sleeves which almost touch the floor.
A large black hood completely covers the figure’s
head.

‘Enter, stranger,’ a deep voice calls. ‘You have chosen
the path of the Puzzles. I am the Inquisitor. It is your
task to prove to me that you are worthy to pass
through my domain, and only by the power of your
mind shall you do so. Fail, and you shall die. Step
forward and listen carefully, your test begins.’

If you want to obey the Inquisitor, turn to 262. If you
would rather attack him, turn to 141.

39

There is just a single sentence on the page; it reads:
The Water Elemental of Light is numbered 27 and destroys
the Fire Elemental of Chaos. You memorize the words
while you walk on up the tunnel (turn to 97).

40-41

40

A white dove circles then lands on the deck, and you
notice that a small pouch is attached to its leg. The bird
appears to be unconcerned as you untie the pouch from
its leg. Inside you find a message from Moose: ‘Zagor
has sent a doppelganger, a ghost-like impostor of
Yaztromo, to trap you when you reach Kaad. But, as
you know, doppelgangers always have green eyes and
Yaztromo’s eyes are blue. Beware!’ Wondering how
Zagor has found out about your mission, you throw the
message into the river. The dove flies off as the boat
continues its rapid journey downstream. Tum to 11

41

You drop the pot on the floor and watch it shatter
into dozens of pieces. Lying among the debris of the
shattered pot you see a round, black stone. If you
want to pick it up, tum to 154. Alternatively, if you
have not done so already, you may smash the brown
pot (turn to 397). If both pots are broken, you will
have to return to the room containing the statues and
try the new door there (turn to 347).

42-43

42
One of the diamonds in your hand has been coated
with a magic potion of Zagor’s creation. The diamond
immediately transforms into a large warrior con-
structed of diamonds. It raises its crystal sword and
strikes at you.

DIAMOND SENTINEL  skitt1t = STAMINAQ

The Sentinel cannot be harmed by edged weapons, so
your sword is useless against it. Unless you have a
hammer, you will soon be defeated and your adventure
will be over. If you win using a hammer, turn to 63.

43
You are conducted to a table, set up in the middle of a

large room, around which three contestants are sitting,
each with a plate of sheep’s eyeballs piled high in front
of him. You sit down to join them and gulp at the
sight of the eyeballs in front of you. You look at the
others and try to raise a smile. Your opponent to the
left is an old Barbarian wearing furs and a leather
headband. The one to your right is a neanderthal-
looking caveman and the one sitting opposite you is
another Troglodyte who, although of small build, has
a pot belly . . . and everybody knows that sheep's eyes
are a Troglodyte delicacy. The Barbarian looks at you
fercely and asks in a gruff voice, Do you want a side
bet on this?’

If you want to have a bet with the Barbarian on the
outcome of the competition, turn to 268. If you don’t
want to bet, turn to 380,
44-46

44
Ignoring the boy’s request, you try the door of the
store but find that it is locked. Thinking that you may
come back later, you set off to find Zoot Zimmer.
Turn to 309.

45
As you creep over towards the sleeping Troglodyte, you

stumble and trip over the rough floor. Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, turn to 7o. If you are Unlucky, turn to 191.

46
The chasm is only a metre wide, but you are unable to
jump across it: you hit an invisible wall in mid-air and
tumble headlong down into the black void. You land on
your back with a thump on a stone floor. Slowly the
chasm above you closes up and you are left in total
darkness. It is not long before you lose consciousness.

47-48

When you reawaken, you find yourself on a marble table
and two Death Lords are hovering over you with sharp
knives. ‘Begin!’ a voice shouts. In less than an hour Zagor
will have a new limb — yours! Your adventure is over.

47

You take a couple of steps back, then run forward and
jump as far as you can over the skulls, Roll two dice. If
the total is less than or equal to your skit, tum to
168. If the total is greater than your skiLt, tum to 261.

48

The tunnel ends at a wooden door with many strange
symbols carved on it. Various objects are nailed to the
door, including old coins, a rabbit's foot, various small
skulls, a copper triangle and a shrivelled ear, You listen
at the door and hear a woman’s voice ordering some-
one to bring her a bowl of crushed maggots. If you
want to open the door, turn to 305. If you want to
turn back and go past the last junction, turn to 4.

49-54

49
Reacting swiftly you fling your shield up to block the
steel dagger, which clatters off the shield and falls
harmlessly to the ground. You pick it up then charge
into the bushes, brandishing your sword. Turn to 72.

°
The sword and dagger disappear from the Inquisitor’s
hands. He folds his arms again slowly and says, ‘Cor-
rect. Now for the second puzzle. You must tell me my
age from the information I shall give you. I first went
to the School of Evil Magic when I was 44 years of
age and | stayed there for a sixth of my life. Then I
went to the School of Demonic Sorcery for a fifth of
my life. I then studied under the great necromancer
Helimoon for a quarter of my life and, since then, for a
third of my life 1 have been in the service of Zagor.’

If you can work out the Inquisitor’s age, turn to the
paragraph with that number. If you do not know the
answer, furn to 127.

51
You climb up through the hole in the ceiling into a
small, candelit room with stone walls and a low roof,
too low to allow you to stand upright. There is a
narrow tunnel in one of the walls. A large sword
hangs on the wall next to the tunnel entrance; its
blade is made of a dark, almost black metal. If you
wish to take the sword, turn to 355. If you would
rather squeeze through the narrow tunnel, turn to 68.

52-54

$2

‘Very good,’ the old man says calmly. ‘You will make
an excellent spy for Zagor, after | have made a few
alterations to your mind. Il is a simple task to alter
the human brain for a Mindbender such as 1 Now.
should | change you into a servant of Chaos or
make you just plain evil?” While the Mindbender is
chuckling to himself, you decide to strike. Will you
use:

A whip (if you have one)? Turn to 382
Garlic? Turn to 224
Your sword? Tum to 174

$3

You turn to the chapter called ‘Dragons’ Teeth’ and
scan the page with the magnifying glass until you
reach a section on The Elementals of Light and Chaos’,
You read that there are four of each, the Supreme
Elementals of Light appearing in the form of golden
dragons’ teeth. Each one is numbered. The Air Elemental
of Light is number 186 and destroys a Water Elemental of
Chaos, The Earth Elemental of Light is... But the next
three pages are missing from the book and you do not
learn the secrets of the other Elementals. You memorize
the information about the Air Elemental before walking
through the cavern and into the tunnel at the far end
(turn to 337).

The crew try frantically to ease the sails and balance
the boat, but the wind is too strong. The boat flips
5557

over on to its side, spilling you and the crew into
the cold water. Roll one die; this is the number of
Razorfish that converge and attack you without warn-
ing. If there are as many (or more) Razorfish as
there are crew, including yourself, turn to rox. If
there are fewer Razorfish than there are crew, turn
[oO 325.

55
The dragons’ teeth in the palm of your hand begin to

feel warm, raising your spirits, as the Air Elemental
starts to envelop you. The noise of the wind is
deafening. You must cast one of the teeth on the floor
immediately. If you know which one to use, turn to
the paragraph which has the same number as the
number on the tooth. If you do not have the tooth or
do not have the right one to counter the Air Elemental,
turn to 365.

56
You listen intently at the door, but you can hear no
sounds coming from the other side. You turn the
handle and find that the door is unlocked. If you want
to enter the room, tum to 226. If you would rather
walk on to the third door, turn to 273.

‘That is indeed my name, stranger, but how did you
know it? Have we met somewhere before? Before J can
trust you, I need to be convinced that you do know
me. Can you tell me the number of my house in
Hobnail Street?’ If you know the number of the house,

58-59

turn to the paragraph with that number. If you do noi,
tum to 176.

58

You examine the dragon game pieces and find that
they are carved out of wood and have been painted
gold and silver. A search of the Skeletons yields 1
Gold Piece and a hollow glass ball which contains
white smoke that swirls around inside as you rotate
che ball, If you wish to smash the glass ball on the
ground, tum to 392. If you prefer to leave the bail in
che room and re-enter the tunnel, turn to 373.

Unknown to you, the silver rat is a charm which was
made by Zagor — and contact with the human skin
activates it! As soon as you put it raund your neck, the
small rat comes to life and starts to gnaw frantically at
vour throat. Roll two dice. If the total is less than or
equal to your sKILL score, turn to 17. If the total is
zreater than your SKILL score, turn to 276.
60-62

60

Opening the door, you see a hunched, pock-marked
creature wearing tattered grey rags and staggering
under the weight of a dragon’s skull which it is
carrying across a filthy room. One of the teeth in the
dragon's jaw sparkles; it could be made of gold. There
is a large wooden crate at the back of the room, filled
with straw, towards which the creature is walking. If
you want to attack this creature, turn to 212. If you
would rather close the door and walk further up the
tunnel, turn to 32.

61

You are surrounded by a pile of broken bones which
you have to brush aside with your sword in order to
make a path. You search the cupboards in the room
but find only crude bowls, plates and spoons. But
under the serving hatch you discover a thin leather
case, half a metre long. If you want to open this case,
turn to 119. If you would rather leave it unopened,
walk back down the tunnel and turn right at the fast
Junction, turn to 37.

62

The copper bracelet is a magic healing band. Your
wounds are healed and a sudden feeling of strength
surges through your body. Regain 4 sTAMINA points.
If you want to hang the pendant round your neck,
tum to 105. Otherwise, if you have not done so
already, you may take a look at the weapons (turn to
206) or leave the room and walk further up the tunnel
(tum to 1§X).
63-66

63
The Sentinel collapses to the ground in a myriad
pieces, broken like a shattered window. If you now
want to enter the left-hand tunnel, turn to 124. If you
prefer to enter the right-hand tunnel, turn to 38.

64
The day rolls by without incident until you make out the
sound of somebody running towards you. You tum
around to see a tall, ugly humanoid whose face is lumpy
and beast-like. From its mouth it is drooling spittle all
over itself as it strives to catch up with you. Its clothing
is primitive, no more than loincloth made of animal skins.
It is an Ogre and it is armed with a spear and a heavy
club, If you want to stand your ground and fight, turn to
395. If you prefer to try to outrun the Ogre, turn to 126.

65

You tap the ground twice with the staff — and as quickly
as the chasm had opened up, the ground closes again. The
Death Lords look suddenly nervous as you walk towards
them with the skull staff in your hand. One of them calls
out and they all throw their razor-sharp spheres at you.
Roll ane die, then add 1 to the number rolled for each of
the.following pieces of armour you may be wearing or
carrying: a shield, a helmet or a breastplate. If the total is
1-4, turn to 285. If the total is 5 or more, turn to 335.

66
If you:are carrying any of the following items, you
have time to: grab just one before the advancing
Gorgon is upon you. Will you choose:

67

Garlic? Turn to 15
A mirror? Turn to 231
A whistle? Turn to 334

If you have none of these articles, you will have to
attack the Gorgon with your sword after all (turn to

393).

The slime flies past your head, only just missing you.
The blind worm starts to writhe around and falls off
the box. You seize your opportunity, grab the box
and scramble up out of the pit. Back in the tunnel you
shake the box but can hear nothing rattling inside it.
You lift the lid gently, only to find that all the box
contains is a page from a tiny book. You turn the box
over and see that the word ‘Fire’ is scratched on the
base. The box is quite large and, if you wish to fit it in
your backpack and take it with you, you will have to
leave two other items behind (remove them from your
Equipment Lisf). After making up your mind about: the
68-70

box, you may now either read the page from the book
(turn to 230) or walk further up the tunnel (tum to 97).

68
The tunnel is dark and you are forced to use your
hands to grope along the floor ahead of you to avoid
the chance of falling down an unseen shaft. About
twenty metres further ahead, your hand encounters an
iron spike that has been driven into the stone floor,
Beyond the spike, the floor disappears and becomes a
total black void, You are fairly sure that the tunnel
ends at the far side of the shaft, since you can just
make out a wall — a certain dead-end. Just as you are
wondering how far down it is to the bottom of the
shaft, you hear the unnerving sound of metal grating
on stone coming, along the tunnel behind you. You feel
trapped — perhaps it’s the Goblin, but how could he be
behind you, since you did not find him in his room? If
you want to turn around and crawl back along the
tunnel, turn to r14. If you’d rather attempt to climb
down the shaft, turn to 383.

69
You stride confidently over to the guard. What will
you do to get it to open the door?

Offer it 10 Gold Pieces? Turn to 214
Tell it that you are the relief guard? Turn to 385
Offer it Darkblade Skullbiter’s sword? Turn to 202

0
Regaining your balance you bend over the sleeping

Fi

Troglodyte and pick up its throwing dagger and
pouch. Inside the pouch you find a piece of slate with
the word ‘arrow’ scratched on it. You put this in your
pocket and slip the dagger down the side of your
boot. Seeing nothing else of interest, you tiptoe quietly
over to the far door (turn to £58),

I
The giant eagle appears to be completely unperturbed
when Zoot fixes a harness and a two-man saddle
across its back When he has finished the job, Zoot
turns to you and says, ‘Don’t even think about offering
me payment for this trip. 1 just want my mother to be
avenged, as 1 am convinced that this terrible plague
which is destroying Kaad is of Zagor’s doing. Come
on, climb aboard!’ You do as Zoot asks and, with a
flutter of its massive wings, the eagle carries you high

into the sky.

Kaad is soon left behind and it becomes just another
small feature of the landscape beneath you. The sensa-
tion of flying is exhilarating and for a moment you
forget the dangerous task that awaits you. Zoot steers
the great bird northeastwards, high above the Pagan
Plains.

For half an hour you see no other creatures in the sky,
but then your luck mins out. Zoot suddenly points
towards the distant horizon, where another fying
creature is coming into view. If you want to instruct
him to land, turn to 240. If you would rather order
him to fly on towards Firetop Mountain, tum to
131.
You leap into the bushes, your sword cutting through
the air. To your right is Moose and in front of you are
the two servants of Zagor: they crouch, daggers drawn,
and growl, foamy spittle dripping from their dog-like
jaws. Half Dark EIf and half Goblin, Trackers are
perfect hunters and messengers. Always armed with a
coss-belt of throwing daggers across their chest, they
wil] not usually fight openly unless cornered. Suddenly
they throw their daggers at you and Moose and draw
their short swords. But you are ready and duck below
the flying dagger. Wasting not a second more, you
charge at the nearest Tracker.

TRACKER SKILL 7 STAMINA 6
If you win, turn to 306.

’ j 2
: ; " Se A

73

If your current Luck score is 9 or above, turn to 167.
If it is 8 or less, turn to 320.

74
Your outstretched hand grasps the door handle at the
same moment as three spears thump into your back.
You stumble forward, fall against the door and slide
down to the floor. Your adventure is over.

7S
The key turns in the door and you walk through, with
the feeling that you may be nearing the end of your
quest {turn to 169).

76

76

You look up to see the Pitmaster throwing the rope
down into the pit. After retrieving your sword you
swarm up the rope and await his judgement. ‘You
have eared the right to enter the inner sanctum of
Firetop Mountain, where the harmony of the spheres
aligns itself to Chaos, the Pitmaster announces sol-
emnly. “You may now go,’

As you make your way to the far end of the cavern
and a new tunnel, you wonder if the Pitmaster knows
of your quest. Surely he must be a servant of Zagor?
Why didn’t he try to kill you? You resist the tempta-
tion to look back over your shoulder and enter the
tunnel (turn to 437).

77-79

77
With her sails hoisted and trimmed, the boat is quickly
underway and the war canoes are soon left far behind.

‘No more stops until Kaad,’ snarls Lorrie, pulling hard
at the helm. Feeling guilty, you sit alone on the rack,
watching the vivid landscape speed by. Test your Luck.
If you are Lucky, turn to qo. If you are Unlucky, turn
to 258.

78
The garlic fumes activate an ancient spell that, unknown
to you, has been cast on the pendant. The pendant
changes shape and turns into a stiletto blade which
thrusts itself through your backpack and shirt. Its
deadly tip pierces your heart. Your adventure is over.

You uncover your eyes and see the hideous creature
lying in a pool of green slime which oozes from its
wounds. Bathed in sweat, you slump against a wall to
recover, not daring to take your eyes off the Gorgon
and the snakes on her head, which continue to writhe
around. A minute or so later, you feel you are ready
to move on. If you want to open the new door, turn
to 347. If you would rather look inside the adjoining
80-82

chamber from where the Gorgon emerged, turn to
352.

80
Lighting your lantern, you find yourself in a small,
empty chamber which has a tunnel leading from its far
wall. There appears to be a message on this wall,
written in yellow chalk. If you want to read the
message, turn to 323. If you would rather walk straight
along the tunnel, turn to 372.

Br
There is just a single sentence on the page; it reads:
The Fire Elemental of Light is numbered 315 and destroys
an Earth Elemental of Chaos. You memorize these words
and decide what to do next. If you want to take the
dragon's head, tum to 73. If you would rather leave
the room as it is and turn left into the tunnel, turn to

32,

82
You find a round, polished shield, half buried in the
dirt. Take it if you wish and turn to 267.

83-86

83
Zagor? That was last week’s password. Now be off
with you or I'll call the guard,’ the doorman says
angrily. You decide against pushing your luck too far
and set off along the tunnel (turn to 304).

84
You place a Gold Piece on the palm of your hand and
shove your arm through the cell bars, urging the Goblin
‘o approach and communicate with you. With
Zagor’s coins you hope to convince him that you are an
ally, a fellow-servant of Zagor. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 164. If you are Unlucky, turn to 327.

85

The Mummies become aware of your presence and
shuffle towards you, their arms outstretched. You
xnow that, while they are not savage fighters, they are
difficult to defeat since they cannot be properly killed
by normal weapons, The only sure way of defeating
them is by fre. If you have a lantem, turn to 288. If
you do not have a lantern, turn to 239.

86

A few hours later it is beginning to get dark and, with
Firetop Mountain now plainly visible in the distance,
you wonder whether to settle down and sleep out on
‘he open plain or to press on. A group of large boulders,
-wo hundred metres to your left, offer some sort of
orotection, but you can see nowhere else to take shelter
[f you wish to go over to the boulders, turn to 263. If
you would rather walk on in darkness, turn to 3§7.
87-89

87
You enter a derelict room that was once a torture
chamber. All manner of instruments of pain are strewn
about; branding irons, knives, chains, thumbscrews,
ropes, whips and an iron maiden, all long since aban-
doned, lie covered in dust and cobwebs on the stone
floor. In the middle of the chamber you see a rack, the
most feared torture instrument known, The skeleton of
an unfortunate victim is still tied to the rack; the
skeleton’s jaw hangs open, as though screaming in
agony. On closer inspection you notice a gold ring on
one of the fingers of the skeleton. If you wish to take
this ring, turn to 5, If you would rather leave the
torture chamber and carry on up the tunnel, turn to

23

88
Not waiting to see whether the Chaos Warrior will
rise again, you leave the room, slamming the door
behind you, and turn right up the tunnel (turn to 1§1).

You swim to the northern bank of the river and
scramble up it, panting in exhaustion. You look back
and see the boat drifting off downstream, but no crew
members are left alive, just the thrashing waters as
more Razorfish swim in to feed. If you wish to rest
for a while, turn to 155. If you would rather set off to
the west towards Kaad, turn to 379.
9°94

go
‘Correct,’ says the Inquisitor. ‘You have earned the right
to enter the inner sanctum of Firetop Mountain, where
the harmony of the spheres aligns itself to Chaos. If you
wish, you may avail yourself of my library before yougo.’

If you want to peruse some of his books, turn to 18. If
you would rather walk through the cavern and into
the tunnel at the far end, turn to 337.

I
‘Good!’ says the Troglodyte. ‘I‘d forgotten about the
prize for the runner-up. Is it gold or silver this time?’ In
order to avoid suspicion, you must give the Troglodyte
one item which is made of either gold or silver. If youhave
such an item to give him, turn to 26. If you do not have
either a gold or a silver item to give away, turn to 122.

2
You reach down into the compartment until your
hand touches a jelly-like substance at the bottom. If
you are wearing leather gloves, tum to 178. If you do
not have a pair of gloves on, turn to 377.

93
The box is empty, apart from a ball of string. You put
the string in your backpack and leave the room through
the door in the far wall (turn to 12:).

94
The tooth bounces up off the floor and breaks in two;
a massive stone humanoid rises up out of the ground

94

between you and the Air Elemental. It is an Earth
Elemental that you have summoned. A great battle
ensues as the Earth Elemental, its head down, slowly
pushes back the raging whirlwind until its evil forces
are spent. Quiet suddenly returns to the hall as the
wind drops. The Air Elemental is defeated and the
Earth Elemental shrinks back into the tooth on the
floor.

Zagor looks surprised, then frowns while he concen-
trates on his next summoning. A fountain of water
suddenly spurts out from the base of the steps and
takes on the shape of a watery giant. Like a tidal wave
it streams down the hall to engulf you. You need to
cast another gold tooth on the floor to halt the Water
Elemental. If you know which one to use, tum to the

P

4' “av: i ee is

=,
i:

95-97

paragraph which has the same number as the one on
the tooth. If you do not have the right tooth to
counter the Water Elemental, turn to 365.

You make a bed out of ivy tendrils, covered with an
old sack. After eating some bread and cheese, you
close the trapdoor and settle down to sleep. In the
pitch-black darkness you can hear scratching sounds as
the insects come out of hiding, but soon you are fast
asleep. In the morning, you wake to the sound of
footsteps crossing the floor above you. You grope
slowly for your sword, trying not to make a sound.
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 352. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 370.

96
The Gorgon catches sight of her own deadly gaze in
the mirror and lets out a brutal, ear-piercing scream.

_ Suddenly motionless, she begins to tremble and her

scaly skin slowly lightens until it is the colour of sand.
In a few seconds she tums to stone, to become a

statue in her own lair. You allow yourself a grim smile

while wondering what other hideous creatures still lie
in wait inside Zagor’s mountain labyrinth. If you want
to open the door in the far wall, tum to 347. If you
would rather investigate the adjoining chambers from

which the Gorgon emerged, turn to 209.

cer

The tunnel: contittzes straight ahead, and you soon
arrive at yet another door in the right-hand wall. You

98

press your ear against the door but can hear nothing.
If you wish to open the door, tum to 222. If you
would rather walk on, turn to 373.

You snatch up your blanket and wrap it round yourself
and the Fire Sprite. An eerie sound comes from under
the blanket, as though the Fire Sprite were gasping for
air. Suddenly the blanket goes limp and drops to the
ground in a smouldering heap; the Fire Sprite has been
banished back to the Plane of Fire. After bandaging
your wounds, you spend a painful and uncomfortable
night, hardly able to sleep at all.

At crack of dawn you set off determinedly towards
Firetop Mountain which, in the morning light, appears
to rise menacingly out of the plain. With luck, you
estimate that you will reach it by midday. Tum. to
221,
99-100

99
The Barbarian swings his furs back over his shoulder
and faces you, a two-handed battleaxe at the ready; he
will be a fierce opponent. The others in the room start
to cheer at the prospect of watching a good fight.

BARBARIAN SKILL 10
If you win, turn to 135.

STAMINA 10

roo

As soon as the ear-ring is hanging from your ear, it
starts to move of its own accord. The metal earwig
frees itself from the clasp and wriggles into your ear.
Its many legs are as sharp as needles, causing you
sudden pain. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to
274. If you are Unlucky, turn to 299.

ror

IOX

Protected by thick silver scales, Razorfish attack by
viciously ripping at their victims’ flesh with rows of
razor-sharp teeth. The river is soon red with the blood
of the crew as two fish swim to attack you.

SKILL STAMINA
First RAZORFISH 7 8
Second RAZORFISH 7 8

Fight both Razorfish at the same time. Each Attack
Round you must choose which assailant you will
attack, then fight it as normal — but both Razorfish will
make a separate attack on you! You must throw for
your Attack Strength in the normal way against the
other Razorfish, but you will not wound it, even if
your Attack Strength is greater; just consider this as
blocking its attack. If its Attack Strength is greater,
however, it will wound you in the normal way. If you
win, turn to 89.

102-104

102
The door opens into a small antechamber, the main
teature of which is an incredibly ornate door in the far
wall. A huge letter ‘Z’ stands in relief on the door,
which is embossed with gold leaf. Guarding the door
is a brutal-looking beast, its outstretched arms resting
on the handle of a large, spiked club. The beast has
leather crossbelts looped across its hairy torso and
sports two spiked shoulder-pads. While its head is
wolf-like, it also has homs and is far more gruesome
Wilt you try to bluff your way past the guard (turn to
69) or waste no time but attack (tum to 198)?

103
The Pitmaster raises his arms and points his fingers
towards you as you run to attack him; in a cruel voice,
he says, “Time to die!’ Wisps of smoke seem to dance
on his fingertips as ten tiny red darts that you thought
were his nails fly straight towards you. They strike
you with devastating force. Your adventure is over.

104

You lower yourself over the edge of the shaft, hanging
on to the iron spike. Your feet do not touch solid
ground, so you take a deep breath, let go of the tron
spike and drop down into the dark depths below. You
land heavily on the stone floor, a few metres below,
and twist your ankle badly. Deduct 1 point from your
SKILL and 1 point from your sTAMINA. If you are
carrying a lantern, turn to 80. If you do not have a
lantern, turn to 278.
105-108

105

As soon as you place the pendant round your neck,
the Chaos Warrior's body starts to twitch, With its
head tilted horribly to one side, revealing the gaping
wound of your fatal blow, it climbs back to its feet.
You tear the pendant from your neck and throw it on
the floor, frantically wondering how to deal with the
undead warrior. If you want to fight it, turn to 2. If
you would rather make a run for the door and escape
up the tunnel, turn to 388.

106
You walk back to the path with Moose, deep in
discussion about Zagor.

‘Mission accomplished anyway,’ Moose says cheer-
fully. ‘At least Zagor doesn’t know you're coming.’

Eventually you shake hands and say goodbye. Moose
sets off on the return journey to Anvil, while you
follow the path in the opposite direction. Turn to r6r.

107

As soon as you remove the lid, a large snake rears up
and tries to bite you with its venomous fangs. Test
Your Luck. If you are Lucky, tur to 275. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 302.

. 108
Resolving not to go down the sewer after all, you
now have to decide whether to sit on the oak chair
(turn to 269) or open the door in the far wall (turn to
283).

109-142

109

You walk along the tunnel, following it round a long
right-hand bend, until you come to a door in the left-
hand wall. You can hear a noise like the flapping of
small wings coming from inside. If you want to open
the door, tum to 360. If you would rather walk on,
turn to 172.

ILO

You snatch up the spear and steady yourself to throw
it at the advancing Ogre. Roll two dice. If the total is
less than or equal to your SKILL score, turn to 185. If
the total is greater than your sKILL score, turn to 199.

1X1
The spear thumps into your back and bowls you over.
In seconds the Lizard Men are upon you. ‘Keep this
intruder alive for another hour in case Zagor asks for a
new arm or something,’ one of the Lizard Men growls
in a deep, gurgling voice.

You are carried off in chains and thrown into a dark cell.
Less than thirty minutes later, a white-robed man enters
the cell holding a long, sharp knife. He has come to take
a part of your body for Zagor. Your adventure is over.

112

The axe thuds into the back of Fyll, who topples over
into the river, dead even before he hits the water. The
boat sails on, her crew silenced by the unexpected loss
of one of their number. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to go. If you are Unlucky, turn to 258.

113-114

113
You take the dragons’ teeth out of your pocket just
before the Air Elemental is upon you. You must
activate one immediately! If you know the magic word
that releases the magic in these teeth, you may say it
now. Will you shout ‘Zabaron!’ (turn to 344) or ‘Ca-
chondol’ (turn to §5)?

Your worst suspicions are confirmed: the tunnel is
blocked by a solid iron portcullis which you cannot
possibly move. Suddenly the floor beneath you gives
way and you fall a few metres on to a stone floor,
landing painfully. Deduct 1 point from your
STAMINA. You find yourself in a small, dimly lit
room, which is bare except for a straw-covered wooden
bed and an iron bucket. There is a wooden door in
one wall and a small, barred window. Through the
bars you observe the smiling face of the Goblin! You
are trapped in his cell. You stand up and go across to
the door; peering through, you see that the Goblin is
standing in his torture chamber; you hadn’t spotted
this door when you first entered — it was tucked away
in a dark corner. The Goblin lopes over to the rack
and gleefully starts to get it ready for you. Then it
starts to sing, an awful, repetitive chant, gurgled out
of key by a sadistic little creature from whom you still
hope to escape. But how? You think hard. Will your
escape plan make use of:

115-116

The bucket? Turn to 21
A Gold Piece with the letter ‘Z’

stamped on it? Turn to 84
A silver key? Turn to 203
An iron key? Tum to 363

ITs

The Witch is not carrying anything of any interest to
you. However, when you look behind the drapes, you
find a metal panel with a handle set in the wail, and a
slot above it. ‘Silver Coins Only’ a sign on the wall
wars. If you have 2 Silver Pieces to put in the slot,
turn to 264 . If you would like to try two other coins,
turn to 362.

116

The boy’s face lights up when you give him the
wooden brick. He jumps up and muns off, returning in
a few minutes with a rather tubby old man who is
chewing on a chicken leg; he is wearing a white apron
and seems to be a jolly old soul. ‘Shop’s closed this
afternoon,’ he says with a smile, ‘but seeing as you
gave a present to Deep Sea Junior here, I don’t mind
opening up specially for you.’ He opens the door and
you follow him into the rather dingy shop; obviously
many of the objects have stood here fort years, as they
are thickly coated with dust. There’s a stuffed bear,
some juggling clubs, hoops, large vases, shields, jan-
terns, boxes, carvings, statues, paintings, bottles, urns,
jars, books, maps, clocks, wigs, games; boots and hanks
and hanks of different-coloured rope.
116

‘Excuse the mess,’ says Deep Sea, ‘I must get around
to clearing the place up one day. But people usually
find what they are after in Deep Sea’s Store, that
they do. The King of String, they call me! Now, how
much have you got to spend and what do you
want?’

You open Yaztromo’s pouch and empty the contents
on to the counter top. You count out 15 Gold Pieces,
and you decide to keep back five and spend ten. You
ask what might be useful for dungeon exploration and
Deep Sea replies, ‘Here’s my list of equipment for that
kind of foolhardiness. Everything costs 2 Gold Pieces.
Choose what you like.’

He shows you a slate on which the following items
are listed in chalk:

Lantern

Rope

Harnmer and Iron Spikes
Garlic

Mirror

Axe

Water Bottle
Magnifying Glass
Quill, Ink and Paper
Silver Dagger
Leather Gloves
Healing Balm

You choose five items (make a note of your selection
on your Adventure Sheet) and hand over 10 Gold
Pieces to Deep Sea. He thanks you for your custom

117

and you leave the store with directions on how to find
Zoot Zimmer. Turn to 309.

117
On seeing your blood flow, the Chaos Beast Man
froths at the mouth; its body trembles and suddenly
starts to expand, bursting its leather crossbelts. It
grows another metre in height and its head expands
grotesquely: its jaw extends and two tusks sprout
forth. You must continue your fight against the warped
Beast Man.

MUTANT BEAST LORD sxkILL14 STAMINA 14
E you win, turn to 331.

1y8—121

118

The door opens into a dingy cell. Two rats scurry
across the dirty, straw-covered floor as you enter. On
the far wall you see a thin man wearing red trousers;
he is sitting on the floor and his hands are chained to
the wall; a bandage covers his eyes. The man panics as
he hears your footsteps. He presses himself against the
wall and cries, ‘No! No more pain! No more pain!’ You
think you recognize his voice and try to think of his
name. Is it Zoot Zimmer (tum to 57) or Fergus Finn
(turn to 287)?

ia mh
-
ge
—
.

IIg
The case opens quite easily, but you find nothing

inside. An inscription inside the lid of the case says:
The giver of sleep to those who never can.’ Disap-
pointed at not having found anything useful, you walk
back down the tunnel and turn right at the junction.
Turn to 37.

120
An hour or so later, you hear a cry for help coming
from a wood in the middle of the scrubland to your
right. If you want to investigate, turn to 318. If you
prefer to keep on walking, turn to 250.

121
The door opens into a short corridor which ends, a
few metres ahead, at another wooden door. You listen
but hear nothing. You try the handle and it tums, and
you walk into a room which is richly decorated. The
floor is of polished marble and the walls are painted

i 0ti“‘ CSS

122-123

white, although: grown dull and faded over the years.
There are four paler square patches, one on each wall,
where, you guess, paintings used to hang. There is a
door in the far wall which suddenly opens, and a tall,
muscular creature with long arms enters the room. It
stops in its tracks when it sees you and starts to drool.
Its long, tusk-like teeth protrude menacingly from its
bottom jaw. Armed with a spiked club, the savage
Cave Troll runs forward to attack.

CAVE TROLL ; SKILL 9
IE you win, turn to 284.

STAMINA 9

122
You try to explain that Zagor has taken all the available
gold and silver for a new experiment in sorcery.

‘T don’t believe that for a second,’ the Troglodyte
sneers, ‘Guards! Arrest this impostor!’

You push the Troglodyte out of the way and min out
through the door, turning right. The Lizard Men chase
after you, their spears raised. The first one into the
tunnel urls his spear after you as you race away. Roll
one die. If the number rolled is 1-3, turn to 234. If the
number is 4-6, turn to 111. =

123

Smiling at the old man’s audacity, you take a coin
from your pocket and spin it towards him. One sinewy
hand snatches it out of the air, and he puts it in his
mouth to bite down on it. He grunts with satisfaction
then screws up his eyes to examine it more closely.

124

‘Is that the letter “Z” I see embossed on this Gold
Piece I have here between my fingers?’ the hunchback
asks slowly. If you choose to reply that it is the letter
‘Z’, turn to 29. If you prefer to say that it is the letter
‘N’, tum to 2§5.

124

You step warily into a torchlit tunnel. In the distance
you can see that the tunnel opens out into another
cavern in which there are two pits. From where you
are standing you cannot see into the pits, but you can
hear growling noises coming from one of them. Stand-
ing in the middle of the cavern is a bald man wearing
a chainmail coat. You notice that the nails on his
hands are all filed to a sharp point and are painted red.
Enter, stranger,’ his calm voice calls out “You have
chosen the path of the Pits. I am the Pitmaster. You
must prove to me that you are worthy of passing
through my domain, and only by the skill of your
sword shall you do so. Fail, and you‘ shall die. Step
forward to ready’ yourself for the ordeal, your test
begins.’
125-127

If you want to obey the Pitmaster, turn to 29x. If you
would rather attack him, turn to 103.

125
The room is very small: it contains two stools, a small
table on which lie two bowls of steaming soup, a staff
and a wicker basket. A small, clawed foot protrudes
from one of the bowls of soup, putting off any
thoughts you may have had of drinking it. Will you:

Look at the staff? - Turn to 20
Take the lid off the basket? Turn to 107
Leave the room and chase after the

Death Lords? Turn to 219

126
Your legs are fresh and you soon begin to pull away
from the tired Ogre, Realizing that he cannot catch
you, he stops and hurls his spear at you. Roll one die.
If you roll 1-4, tum to 157. If you roll 5 or 6, turn to

519.

I27
The Inquisitor raises his arms above his head and says
in a cold voice, “You are forbidden entry into the inner
sanctum of Firetop Mountain, By the will of my lord
and master, the warlock Zagor, for you if is time to
die!’

There is a blinding flash and suddenly the floor beneath

you opens up and swallows you. You scream as you :

fall through the black void, Your adventure is over.

128-130

128

The Troglodyte hands the Barbarian a small trophy. It
is a bust of Zagor! The Barbarian then turns to you
and holds out his hand. You give him a golden object,
as you deem it unwise to refuse. (Remove the gold
article from your Equipment List.) Although you are
bloated, the eyeballs are still a source of nutrition. Add
1 point to your STAMINA. After drinking a mug of
water, you make your excuses and leave the room,
turning right into the tunnel (turn to 304).

129
A search of the Goblins’ bodies reveals nothing, other
than a silver amulet of a small rat, which is hanging
round the neck of one of the Goblins. If you want to
piace the silver rat round your own neck by its leather
cord, turn to §9, If you would rather leave the silver
rat with its owner and make your way back to the
oath and then head southwards, turn to 238,

130
The Goblin ducks and the dagger flies past his head.
Turn to 184.

ee SS
131-132

13

As the creature becomes recognizable, a shiver runs
down your spine. Cawing and screeching and gliding
down on huge leathery wings is a hideous creature
with a long sinewy body and a grotesquely over-large
head. Its bird-like feet are armed with long curved
talons, Looking like a human bat, there is no mistaking
the Harpy; it attacks the giant eagle, which is burdened
by your weight.

SKILL STAMINA
HARPY 7 6
GIANT EAGLE 6 11

Resolve the combat between the two flying creatures.
If you have a steel dagger, you may throw it at the
Harpy. Roll one die: if you roll 1-3, you will miss; if
you roll 4-6, you will hit the Harpy and reduce its
STAMINA by 2 points. If the Harpy wins the combat
against the giant eagle, you will fall to your death. If
the giant eagle wins, turn to 166.

132

You find yourself in a small kitchen. Everything is
filthy: a wooden bowl is stacked high with cracked
plates of rotting food; a pot of vile-looking soup
bubbles away on top of a wood-fired stove — it smells
about as appetizing as the smell of rotten eggs. There
are a few jars of herbs on a rack above the stove and a
jug of water stands on the floor. You also notice a box
of cutlery; sorting through it, you find a gold spoon,

133-135

which you pop into your backpack; then you walk
back into the room where the Orc and Dwarf lie
motionless. Stepping over their bodies, you leave the
room, turning right into the tunnel (turn to 13).

133
The text on the page is too small to read. If you have
a magnifying glass, turn to 81. If you do not have a
magnifying glass, you may either take the dragon's
head (tum to 73) or leave the room and tum left into
the tunnel (turn to 32).

| 134
The green smoke continues to escape from the canister,
but it does not do you any harm; it soon disperses and
drifts away. Inside the canister you find a dragon’s
tooth made of gold and with the symbol of a heart
inside a flaming circle stamped on its base. After
examining it, you place it carefully in your pocket.
Add 1 Luck point. If you have not done so already,
you may now rummage around in the dirt (tum to
242). Otherwise, you are left with no choice but to go
out of this room and walk on to the second door (turn

to 56).

13§
You explain to the others that the Barbarian had
reneged on the bet. You rummage through the Barbar-
ian’s furs and find a cloth pouch. Breaking the string
which tied the pouch to his belt, you open it and find a
large tooth, made of gold, inside; it has the number
‘27° stamped on it. Add 1 Luck point. You put this in
your pocket and calmly drink a mug of water to wash

136—138

away the taste of eyeballs: Although you are feeling
bloated, the eyeballs are quite nutritional. Add 2 point
to your STAMINA. As the others start to argue over
who will have the Barbarian's axe, you slip out of the
room and tum right into the tunnel (turn to 304).

136
As your boat speeds by the Ore, he snarls and hurls a
throwing axe at it. Roll two dice. If the total rolled is
between 2 and 9, tum to 112. If the total is 10 or
more, turn to 188.

137
The Lizard Men are tough and skilful fighters. You are
lucky that in the narrow tunnel only one can fight you
at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
First LIZARD MAN 8 8
Second LIZARD MAN 8 7
Third LIZARD MAN 8 6

If you win, you mun off up the tunnel before any more
Lizard Men appear (turn to 304).

138
You run over to the door in the far wall while the
creature is slithering into the room, but the door is
firmly locked. You glance over at the creature and
discover that it is not just a giant snake. Standing
upright on its huge, coiled tail, you see the large, scaly
torso of a fearsome woman, brandishing a silver sword.

139-141

Small snakes writhe on top of her head in place of hair.
Her burning red eyes with their deadly stare slowly
search the room for the intruder. You are trapped in
the Gorgon’s lair. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn
to 31. If you are Unlucky, turn to 265.

139
Remembering Dan’s words, you chew the mushroom

as quickly as you can, swallowing the last piece just as
you feel yourself losing consciousness. You wake up
again less than a minute later, feeling perfectly normal
once more. Add i point to your sTAMINA. You stand
up, shake yourself and walk on (tum to 373).

140
The tunnel soon ends at a wooden door which looks
as if it was boarded up many years ago. You listen at
the door but can hear nothing. You are just on the
point of turning around and walking back to the
junction when you catch sight of a bottle, tucked
away in the corner of the tunnel by the wooden door.
On picking it up, you see that it is made of dark-blue
glass and is stoppered. There is a metallic object inside
which rattles when you handle the bottle. You uncork
the bottle, but the metal object will not come out
through the narrow neck. If you want to break the
bottle, turn to 321. JE you would rather put it back on
the floor, walk back past the junction and go on down
the tunnel, turn to 281.

14!
As you run to attack him the Inquisitor raises his arms

142-143

above his head and says in a cold voice, ‘Time to die!’
There is a blinding flash and suddenly the floor opens
beneath you and swallows you up. Your adventure is
over.

142
The huge door swings slowly inwards, creaking on its
old hinges. You find yourself in a short corridor which
leads into a large room. At the end of the corridor you
spot a Goblin, At the same moment the Goblin sees
you and reaches across to a lever, set in the wall. If
you have a throwing dagger tucked down your boot,
turn to 34. If you do not have a throwing dagger, turn
to 184.

143

As night gradually closes in, you find that walking
along the path becomes increasingly difficult. Before
long you can hardly see the path at all and, as you are
still a long way from Stonebridge, it seems pointless
to go on any further in virtual darkness. Just as you
are wondering where you will find a safe place to
sleep, you hear the almost silent flapping of wings
above you, Drawing your sword, you strain your eyes
towards the dark sky and catch sight of the predatory
creature that is swooping down to attack. It is a
Vampire Bat and it wants to suck your blood!

VAMPIRE BAT SKILL 5 STAMINA 4

During this fight you must temporarily reduce your
skILLt by 2 because you are fighting at a disadvantage
in near darkness. If you win, turn to 350.

si‘ ir
hk) Lan

:

.
:

}

;
4)

!
Ly
:

ayy

it

iw |

144-147

144
As you open the door, a terrible stench assails you. The
door opens into a room with a sunken floor. Looking
down, you see three bloated worms, each four metres
long, slithering over the carcass of a dead dog. They
are yellowish-white and have large, oval, suckered
mouths, with which they are blindly trying to grip the
dog in order to suck out its juices. There are several
rotting carcasses in the pit, and these are the cause of
the nauseating stench. As one of the Sucker Worms
tolls to one side, you notice an ornately made brass
box lying on the floor of the pit. If you want to jump
down into the pit to retrieve the box, turn to 7. If you
would rather close the door behind you and carry on
up the tunnel, turn to 97.

145
The pain from the snake bites is so great that you
lower you arm momentarily. Aware that the Gorgon
is about to strike with her sword, you are unable to
resist looking up at her. Turn to 265.

146
If you want to enter the room, tum to 295. If you
would rather slam the door shut, hurry back along the
tunnel and go past the junction, turn to 4.

147
Your sword slashes through the air in an attempt to
fend off the attacking weapons. The sharp noise of
steel clashing upon steel rings through the air. For a
few moments you manage to hold your own, but the

148-149

sheer number of blades chopping at you through the
air is too great. Silence quickly returns to the room,
and the weapons pull themselves from your body and
fly back to their racks, Your adventure is over.

148
The key does not fit the lock. A sudden jolting pain
shoots up your arm, as if you had been struck by
lightning. Deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA. Will
you now try the iron key (turn to 259) or the brass
key (turn to 75)?

149
You open the door and walk along a narrow tunnel. It
turns briefly to the right and then to the left, where
there is a small alcove. Walking on, you arrive at
another wooden door with a carved bone handle.

1§O-I§1

Hearing no sound coming from the other side of the
door, you turn the handle. You enter a strange, pear-
shaped room with a rough stone floor; there is another
door in the far wall and on one side of the room there
is a pile of rubble. You suddenly spot a small creature
lying asleep on the rubble pile; it has large ears and a
long nose, and is wearing only a loincloth. A dagger
and a pouch lie by the Troglodyte’s head. If you want
to tiptoe over to the next door, tur to 330. If you
prefer to sneak up to the Troglodyte and take its
dagger and pouch, turn to 45.

150

You wake up the next morning feeling as though you
have slept for a hundred years. Regain 2 STAMINA
points. Still yawning, you walk back to the path and
continue southwards (turn to 238).

1§1
You arrive at a wooden door in the left-hand wall.
Listening at the door, you hear the sound of feet
shuffling slowly across a stone floor. If you want to
open the door, turn to 60. If you would rather walk
on, turn to 32.

el e——‘(‘“‘“‘iésOCS
152-154

152
The tunnel ends at a solid wooden door with metal
hinges; it does not appear to be locked. You listen at
the door and hear a noise like that of clinking bones. If
you want to open the door, tum to 2ro. If you would
rather retrace your steps back to the last junction and
turn right, turn to 37.

153
You rummage hastily through your backpack; finding
the egg, you throw it at once down the yawning
chasm. You hear the sound of it landing, some distance
below, but without any magical effect. The island has
all but disappeared and you are forced to jump (turn
to 46).

154
As soon as you touch the stone, your hand stiffens
and locks up, Try as you may, you cannot move any
of your fingers, You have picked up the Gorgon’s
gallstone, which contains low-strength transmutation

|
|

4

155-157

properties. Your usual fighting arm is now useless and
you must hold any weapons in your other hand.
Deduct 2 points from your sxitt. If you have not
done so already, you may now smash the brown pot
(turn to 397). Otherwise you have no option but to
walk over to the new door in the other room (turn to

347).

155
Exhausted by your struggles in the river, you decide

that a short nap will do you good. Regain 1 sTAMINA
point. Some time later you awaken with a start as you
feel something long and smooth slithering over your
body. It is a poisonous snake! Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 223, If you are Unlucky, turn to 336.

156

‘l thought as much,’ the Troglodyte says. My friend
Zonk was supposed to turn up. No doubt he’s fallen
asleep somewhere on the way here. This is the only
day in the year when we are allowed to enjoy our-
selves, and Zonk has to miss it. Well, if you didn’t
want to enter the competition, what do you want?’ If
you reply that you have brought a prize for the
competition winner, turn to gx. If you reply that you
have been sent to referee the contest, turn to 272.

1$7
The spear flies over your head, only just missing you.
If you wish to stop and throw it back at the Ogre,
turn to 110. If you would rather keep on running, tum

to 353.

ee Oo Sa
1§8-159

158

The door leads into a tunnel which has been roughly
cut into the mountain. [It widens out, until you find
yourself in a large sand-covered cavern through which
a river flows. On the nearside bank of the river a few
stumps of wood sticking out of the water look like the
remains of a bridge. To their left, an old cracked bell
hangs from a post. A sign is nailed to the post but it is
too faded to read anything except the word ‘Ferry’.
The river is fast-flowing and looks too deep and
treacherous for you to try swimming across, so you
decide to ring the bell, hoping to attract a ferryman.
The bell gives out a dul! clang, and a few moments
later a withered old man in a small wooden boat
approaches the riverbank.

‘Jump in,’ he says gruffly ‘Two Gold Zagors to cross,
payment in advance.’ You assume that inside the
mountain Zagor must enforce the use of his gold
coins. If you have two Gold Pieces with the letter ’Z’
stamped on them and wish to pay the ferryman, turn
to 399. If you do not have the coins or do not wish to
pay, turn to 260

159
You sense danger. Something is not as it should be.

The old man is being too friendly, not the way
grumpy old Yaztromo behaves at all. Suddenly you
have it! His eyes are green, whereas Yaztromo’s eyes
are blue! The impostor in front of you must be a
doppelganger, a ghost-like assassin sent to slay you.
You must pierce its ethereal heart with your sword

160-161

before its flesh touches yours, or you will be doomed
to immaterial existence in a twilight world, To resolve
this combat, roll dice as normal, but do not deduct
STAMINA points. The winner of an Attack Round rolls
both dice again: if a double is rolled, then either the
Doppelganger’s heart is pierced or it touches your
flesh, depending on who won the Attack Round,

DOPPELGANGER SKILL 9 STAMINA O

If you win, turn to 316.

160
The Warrior's outstretched hands just fail to catch you
as you swerve past him. You slam the door behind
you and run up the tunnel {tum to 11).

161

By midday the sun overhead is shining brightly and it
is uncomfortably hot as you walk along the dusty
path. You hear the sound of someone whistling, then
in the distance you see an old man, leading a donkey.
Two large wicker baskets, piled high with mushrooms,
are strapped to the donkey's back. As you approach
the man, he comes to a halt and, standing boldly in
front of his donkey with his arms folded across his
chest, he says,

Tm Dungheap Dan
the mushroom man
I'd rather be a poet
than a man who has to hoe it.’

He smiles and bows, as if waiting for applause. If you

162-164

want to talk with Dan, turn to 286. If you would
rather ignore him and keep on walking, turn to 237.

162

You soon arrive at a junction in the tunnel. There is
another cave-in in the left-hand tunnel, some thirty
metres further on. The roof of the tunnel to your right
has also caved in, but there is a new branch in the left-
hand wall just before the cave-in. You decide to make
a quick right-left tum and make you way up the new
branch. The new tunnel soon ends at a sturdy wooden
door; you try the handle and it tums. You peer round
the door and see a human skeleton lying on the floor
of a dust-covered room. There is a fine-looking sword
in the skeleton’s hand. If you need a sword, tum to
225. Otherwise, you may either open an old box that
is in one comer of the room (tum to 93) or leave the
room through the door in the far wall (turn to 121).

163
The Death Lords turn and run through an archway at
the back of the chamber, screaming at the top of their
voices. If you wish to chase after them, tum to 219. If
you would rather enter the side room from which the
Goblins had appeared, turn to 125,

164
The Goblin grunts his acceptance of your proof of
loyalty to Zagor, and unbolts the cell door. You nod
your head at the Goblin as you calmly walk through
the torture chamber, tuming right into the tunnel (turn
to 23).

165-166

165
There are two small objects inside the skull: one is a
tiny dragon's head carved out of bone, no bigger than
a button, and the other is a page from a tiny book. If
you wish to take the dragon’s head, tum to 73. If you
wish to read the page, turn to 133. If you would rather
leave everything where it is, exit the room and turn
left into the tunnel, turn to 32.

166

It is late in the afternoon when Firetop Mountain at
last comes into view, its former fiery-red peak now a
deathly black. You tell Zoot to make the eagle land as
close as possible to the cave entrance which lies at the
foot of the south face of the mountain. The giant bird
glides down and lands in a clearing. From the ground,
Firetop Mountain looks menacing: the steep face in
front of you looks as if it has been savaged by the
claws of some gargantuan beast. Across the clearing is
the dark cave entrance that you hope will lead you to
Zagor. Few words are spoken as Zoot holds out his
hand to bid you farewell. Soon he is in the air again,
turning west for Kaad. You walk up to the cave

167-168

entrance and peer into the gloom. At the back of the
cave there is a tunnel which is lit by burning torches.
The walls of the cave are dripping with water and
there are stagnant pools on the floor. The air is cold
and dank. You hear the sound of tiny feet scurrying
across the floor. You take a deep breath, enter the
cave and walk on into a tunnel, soon coming to a
junction. If you want to turn left here, turn to 281. If
you want to turn right, tum to 140.

167

The object in your hand is the original lucky charm. It
was made by the wizard Probabus who held strange
beliefs as to what things in the universe were important
and what were unimportant. He held that ]uck was the
all-important force, and that some people and creatures
were bor with it; he did not believe that good or bad
luck happened to people as the result of random
occurrences. Probabus liked lucky people and disliked
unlucky ones, condemning them as worthless if they
had not received their measure of luck. You are a lucky
person, and Probabus wants you to be rewarded for
possessing that quality. The lucky charm detects your
high luck factor and rewards you: restore either your
SKILL or your STAMINA back to its Initial score. You
put the lucky charm back inside the skull and leave the
room, turning left into the tunnel (turn to 32).

168
You just manage to clear the skulls and, without
stopping to look around, you mm on into the new
tunnel (turn to 314).

erect
169-171

169

You enter a large chamber which is brightly lit by
glowing domes on the walls and ceiling. You observe
two black-robed men with black skullcaps; between
them they are carrying a body towards a marble table,
where two men in white robes and white skullcaps are
waiting with gleaming knives in their hands. The
Death Lords are Zagor’s personal physicians. On
seeing you, one of the Death Lords raises his knife and
calls out. Two Goblins, armed with bows and arrows,
suddenly appear from a side room. They both take aim
and fire at you. If you are carrying a shield, tum to
340. If you are not carrying a shield, turn to 18g,

i Ce The door opens into another tunnel, and after twenty
; | metres you come to a door in the right-hand wall. You

can hear great gusts of laughter coming from the other
side of the door. You try the handle but it will not
turn. If you want to knock on the door, turn to 187. If
you would rather walk on, turn to 304.

17I
You recognize the drawing as that of a Gargoyle,
perhaps representing the Gargoyle Constellation of
the northern skies. In any case, it does not make much
sense to you. You walk around to the other side of the
| boulder and see the number ‘92’, also painted in the
same white paint. Finding nothing else of interest, you
set off again towards Firetop Mountain (turn to 64).

eee

172-175

172
Eventually you come to a bend in the tunnel. As you
turn the corner, you hear a loud click and the floor
gives way beneath you. You fall through a trapdoor
on to a bed of iron spikes, some ten metres below.
Your adventure is over,

173

As soon as you step among the skulls, they start to
close in on you. Their jaws start to click open and shut
repeatedly, sending an eerie snapping sound echoing
round the room. Suddenly one bites your ankle, tearing
away a lump of skin with its sharpened teeth. Another
bites your other leg, and the others all try to do
likewise. Deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA. You
kick out at the skulls, sending them flying in all
directions. You pull two skulls off your calf and run
into the tunnel ahead (turn to 314).

174
As soon as you touch the hilt of your sword, the
Mindbender becomes grim-faced, but then he laughs
out loud. If you still intend to strike him with your
sword, tum to 232. Otherwise, if you have them, you
can use either your whip (turn to 382) or some garlic
(turn to 224).

175
Crook slips as he is pulling on the rope to hoist the
mainsail and the rope flies out of his hand; the sail
comes crashing down on the deck. Another hail of
arrows hits the boat; roll one die and reduce the number

176

of the crew remaining by the amount rolled. If any
crew are left alive, turn to 292. If none are left alive,
turn to 201.

176
‘| thought as much. You are just another servant of
Zagor. You won't get any information out of me. Kill
me if you like, but I won’t utter another word,’

You try to convince Zoot that you are not his enemy,
but he remains completely silent — maybe his injuries
have sent him mad. You try to undo his chains, but he
waves his arms about wildly to stop you. You realize
you cannot help him and leave the room, to walk
further up the tunnel (turn to 387).

177-179

177
Without any golden teeth, you are defenceless against
the raging wind which envelops you. You are sucked
up into the air and thrown against one of the columns.
Your head slams against the marble and you lose
consciousness. Turn to 208,

178

Your fingers feel their way through the jelly at the
bottom of the compartment and come into contact
with a small cylindrical canister. You lift it out and are
surprised to see that your glove is now smouldering —
the jelly must have been acidic, you deduce, and it was
fortunate that you were wearing gloves. Add 1 Luck
point. You see that the canister is made of iron and
that the lid will unscrew. You decide to unscrew the
top slowly; as you do so, green smoke starts to creep
out. If you want to throw the canister back through
the hole in the wall, tum to 235. If you would rather
continue unscrewing the top, turn to 134.

179
The Troglodyte hands you a small trophy: it is a

bronze bust of Zagor! You pretend to be grateful.
Although you are bloated and revolted at having to
eat all those eyeballs, they are still a source of nutrition.

180—181

Regain 1 STAMINA point. You tum to the Barbarian
and remind him of the bet. He grunts and slaps a cloth
purse into your hand. You open it and find in it a
large tooth made of gold. It has the number ‘27’
stamped on it. Add 1 Lucx point. After drinking a
mug of water, you make your excuses and leave the
room, turning right into the tunnel (turn to 304).

180
You leave the ruined hut and walk over to some rocks,
hoping to find a safe place in which to sleep. To reach
the rocks, you have to walk through a patch of plants
that are red in colour, the same fiery red that made
Firetop Mountain famous. On brushing the plants’
long leaves with your leg, you become aware of a
very sweet smell in the air. You immediately feel
relaxed and very tired ... so tired, in fact, that you
cannot keep your eyes open a moment longer. You
topple to the ground in the middle of the Sleeping
Grass, and you fall into a deep sleep full of vivid
dreams. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, tum to 150, If
you are Unlucky, turn to 366.

181

The red-eyed Vampire shrieks at the sight of the garlic
and backs against the wall, hissing with fear and
hatred. With the garlic held out in front of you, you
step slowly into the room and pick up the small box,
then you walk backwards out of the room and slam
the door behind you. Inside the box you find a quill
and an ink bottle full of blood! You decide to abandon
your find and walk on up the tunnel (tum to 172).

:
,
%
.

Pinte Re Oe eet ae,
- .

182-183

182

You soon arrive at the outskirts of the town, and all
about you you sense an atmosphere of despair. The
occasional person you meet looks either ill or scared,
and there is a slight whiff of decay in the air. A cart
track runs from the tributary to the town gates, and
you see an old man walking along it towards you. He
is dressed in long. flowing, scarlet robes and his hair
and beard are long and white. From twenty metres
away he calls out to you, saying, ‘Welcome stranger. I
am Yaztromo, the wizard you are seeking, I believe.’
On reaching you, he puts out his hand in greeting. His
face is suddenly lit up by the sun as the cloud passes
by, and his green eyes sparkle. If you wish to shake
his hand, turn to 8. If you prefer not to shake his hand,
turn to 1§9.

183

The creature suddenly leaps on top of you, scratching
and biting viciously. Deduct 1 point from your
STAMINA. You manage to shake it off and are about to
strike with your sword when suddenly you remember
that the Metallix cannot be harmed by any weapons
made of metal. You must use the rocks and stones
scattered around on the floor of the pit to defeat it.

METALLIX SKILL 8 STAMINA 12

During this combat you must reduce your sKILL tem-
porarily by 2 points, as you cannot use your sword. If
you win, turn to 76.

184-185

184
The Goblin hauls on the lever, and a metal plate
comes crashing down from the ceiling to block the
corridor between you and the Goblin. No amount of
pushing can move this barrier and it is far too heavy
to lift. You have no option now but to go back down
the corridor and turn right into the tunnel (turn to

172).

185

The spear finds its mark, thumping into the chest of
the advancing Ogre, whose face betrays a bewildered
look as the large beast sways back and forth, before
toppling to the ground. When you have satisfied
yourself that the Ogre is dead, you begin a search of
its body. A leather pouch on its belt contains a silver
key and a Jump of cheese. You decide to eat the
cheese (regain 1 STAMINA point) and keep the silver
key. You wrench the spear free, thinking that it may
prove useful later on, and set off once more for Firetop
Mountain. Turn to 86.

186-187

186

The tooth bounces up off the floor and breaks in two.
A jet of air shoots up from the floor where the tooth
hit and starts to spin faster and faster. It increases in
size until it develops into the raging whirlwind that is
an Air Elemental, As the torrent of water roars down
the hall, it is halted by the invisible hand of the Air
Elemental. The wall of water climbs up to the ceiling
as it battles to push past the raging cyclone that
blocks its path. But the Air Elemental is stronger and
pushes the wall of water back down the hall until it
subsides into a harmless pool. The Water Elemental is
defeated, and the Air Elemental shrinks back into the
tooth on the floor

Zagor, now angry, curses and shouts, his good arm
gesticulating madly in the air as he summons yet
another Elemental of Chaos. The ground in front of
the steps suddenly erupts as boulders, marble and
earth rise up and fuse together into a gargantuan stone
humanoid — an Earth Elemental. Another dragon’s
tooth is needed to defeat it. If you have one and know
how to use it, turn to the paragraph which has the
same number as the one on the tooth. If you do not
have the tooth that can defeat the Earth Elemental,
turn to 365,

187
A small hatch slides open in the middle of the door
and you see a pair of big eyes staring at you. ‘What's
the password?’ a voice demands. Will you answer:

a
188-190

Zagor? Tum to 83

Arrow? Turn to 204

Chaos? Tum to 300
188

The axe sails over the boat, missing all on board. The
crew jeer at the Orc, shaking their fists angrily. Soon
the Ore is left far behind as you speed on through the
green landscape. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn
to 40. If you are Unlucky, turn to 258,

189
The Goblins are highly skilled archers, and their accu-
racy is great. Roll one die twice, one for each arrow. If
you roll a 1, a 2, or a 3 on either throw, turn to 236.
Otherwise, turn to 358.

Igo
If you are at present without a sword, you may take the
Goblin’s. After a search of the Goblin’s pockets reveals
nothing more than a stale crust of bread, you decide to
search the torture chamber for hidden treasure. Nailed
to the underside of a wooden chair you find a leather
pouch; it contains a bronze medal with a burning spear
embossed on it. You slip this into your pocket and walk
out into the tunnel once again and turn right (turn to 23).

IgI—I93

1gI
The noise you make is enough to awaken the sharp-
eared Troglodyte. It leaps up, grabs its dagger and
pounces on you.

TROGLODYTE SKILL 5

If you win, tum to 220.

STAMINA 4

192
The ring has lost its charge, and you remain completely
visible. You must think of another way to esape from
the Mummies. Turn to 85.

193
The Fire Sprite is invulnerable to your sword: its blade
cuts through the fiery creature, but the flames join up
again immediately, and another burning hand grabs
your leg. Deduct 3 points from your sTAMINA. Reeling
around in agony, it dawns on you that you must try
to smother the evil fire with your blanket. Turn to 98.

194-195

194

The door handle turns and you walk in on a sight to
chill the blood: a fearsome-looking warrior practising
his swordplay on a human-shaped block of wood that
is suspended from the ceiling. Splinters of wood fly in
all directions as the warrior’s heavy two-handed sword
crunches into the wooden dummy, The warrior is
wearing thick metal armour with spiked shoulders; his
helmet is horned and covered with demonic symbols —
there is no mistaking a Chaos Warrior. On seeing you,
the Warrior raises his sword and lets out a war cry.

CHAOS WARRIOR SKILL 10 STAMINA 10

If you win, turn to 356

195

You bring your sword down hard on the Metallix’s
neck and, although the blade sinks in deep, the strange
beast doesn’t appear to be harmed in any way — not a
drop of blood is drawn You try to extricate your
sword but cannot. Laconically the Metallix raises one
arm and slowly pulls your sword out of its neck. It
wields the weapon above its head and steps forward
to attack. The Metallix cannot be harmed by any
weapons made of metal, a fact you suddenly recollect.
You will have to do your best by throwing rocks and
tones at this adversary. During combat you must
temporarily reduce your SkILL by 2 points, as you
have lost the use of your sword.

METALLIX SKILL 8 STAMINA 12

If you win, turn to 76.

mmemmmmnennemenmemensresmmi

196-198

196
The dagger thuds painfully into your left arm, catching
you by surprise. Deduct 2 points from your STAMINA.
You wrench the dagger out of your arm and charge
into the bushes, brandishing your sword in one hand
and the dagger in your bloodied left hand. Turn to 72

197
Though very weak you know what you have to do,

even if the thought of it makes you feel even worse.
You comb through the Orc’s hairy legs and pick out
some fat fleas. You pop them into your mouth one
by one until gradually the sickness and fatigue leave
you. At last Zagor’s curse is lifted. Regain 4 STAMINA
points, Feeling fortified, will you now:

Leave the room and tum right into

the tunnel? Turn to 13
Open the wooden crate? Turn to 375
Enter the back room? Turn to 132

198
The guard is a Chaos Beast Man, a fanatical fighter
which, if in a state of fighting frenzy, can sometimes
go berserk and mutate into an even more formidable
opponent.

CHAOS BEAST MAN - skitL12 = STAMINA 13

If you lose more than one Attack Round, turn immedi-
ately to 117. If you win the fight without losing more
than one Attack Round, turn to 33r.

199-200

199
The spear misses the Ogre and lands harmlessly behind
it. You hardly have time to draw your sword as the
enraged beast lets out a blood-curdling howl and
launches a ferocious attack on you with its club.

OGRE SKILL 8
If you win, turn to 248.

STAMINA IL

200
You quickly make your escape, leaving the Skeleton
Warriors behind in the room. In the light of the tunnel,
you see that the ‘dragon’ is simply carved out of
wood that has been painted gold. You put it in your
backpack and continue up the tunnel (turn to 373).

ia Uh eer ee

201-203

201
Unable to sail the boat on your own, you are left
helpless in the middle of the river. You dive off the
side of the boat, but three arrows hit you in mid-air.
Your body surfaces, to the cheering delight of the
Orcs. You are another victim whose blood has helped
keep Red River’s name notorious.

202

The guard snarls but appears to be interested in the
sword. You hold out the weapon and the guard
snatches it from your hand. The beast looks closely at
the blade and even sniffs it. Satisfied that what it has
got is worth having, it takes one of the keys on its
belt and unlocks the great door. You waste no time

walking through the door (tum to 169).

203
The key is far too small for the large lock of the cell

204-205

door. Frantically you try to tum the key in the lock
but succeed only in snapping the key in half. You
throw the broken key on the floor and wonder what
to do next. If you want to use the bucket to escape,
turn to 21. Otherwise, if you have a Gold Piece with
the letter ‘Z’ stamped on it, turn to 84,

204

The door opens and you are greeted by a small
creature with large ears and a long nose; it’s another
Troglodyte. He is flanked by two Lizard Men guards.
He looks you up and down appraisingly and says, ‘No
one told me any humans were entering the sheep's
eye eating competition, Anyway, no matter; follow
me.’

If you wish to tell the Troglodyte that there has been
some mistake and that you are not entered for the
sheep’s eye eating competition, tum to 156. If you
prefer to follow the Troglodyte in silence, turn to 43

205
Seeking revenge, you raise your sword and attack.
HUNCHBACK SKILL 6 STAMINA 6

Every time you lose an Attack Round during combat,
you must deduct 2 points from your skKILL as a result

206-207

of being hit by the withering stick, instead of losing
STAMINA points. As soon as you win your first Attack
Round, turn to 39%.

206

The weapons are all fairly ordinary and are probably
those taken from the victims of the Chaos Warrior.
There is a leather whip, which you decide to take. Will
you now leave the room and walk on up the tunnel
(turn to 151)? Or, if you have not done so already, will
you now take a look at the contents of the box (turn
to 24)?

207
The Goblin may be stupid but it is not fhat stupid. It
walks over to the cell door and laughs at you. Through
the smoke you catch sight of a bamboo tube pointing
at you through the bars. You feel a sudden sting on
your neck. You have been hit by a poisoned dart from
the Goblin’s blowpipe. The poison takes effect at once,
sending you into a deep coma. When you wake up

208-209

some time later, you find your hands and feet tied to
the rack; you are doomed to a slow and painful death.
Your adventure is over.

208
You wake to find yourself strapped down on a marble
slab. Your head rings and your vision is blurred and
distorted, but you can hear the unmistakable sound of
a knife being sharpened. Your adventure is over.

209
Although it has a high ceiling, the chamber is surpris-
ingly small; there is nothing inside it apart from two
clay pots, standing in a domed recess in the far wall.
A buming candle separates the two pots, filling the
recess with a warm glow. You shake the stoppered
pots but can hear nothing moving inside the red pot,
whereas the brown pot rattles as though a stone were
rolling around inside it. If you want to smash open the
red pot, turn to 41. If you would rather smash open
the brown pot, turn to 397.

210-212

210

The door opens into a large room which has plainly
not been cleaned in years. There is rubbish all over the
floor and everything is thick with dust. The smell in
the room is unbelievably bad: a mixture of rotten eggs
and an Orc’s armpit! The room may once have been a
dining room, judging by the crockery, cutlery, pots
and pans that are strewn all over the place. There is a
large table in the middle of the room, around which
five seated skeletons are squabbling over some rat
bones they have found in a cauldron. Your presence
has not yet been detected by them. If you want to
enter the room, turn to 296. If you would rather close
the door, walk back to the last junction and turn right,
turn to 37

211

After sitting down on the bench, you begin to feel
relaxed. Your aches and pains are slowly soothed
away by the healing properties of the enchanted bench,
Regain 2 STAMINA points and 2 sxILL point. With
renewed energy and determination, you set off down
the tunnel {turn to 162).

212
The creature is a Plague Bearer and, although it is not
strong, a single touch of its hand up on your skin will
turn you too into a Plague Bearer, to live for ever in a
twilight world of servitude.

PLAGUE BEARER SKILL 6 STAMINA 4
If you lose even a single Attack Round, you will

213-216

become a Plague Bearer and your adventure will be
over. If you win, turn to 241.

213

The green tea has a distinctive peppermint flavour, and
a warn glow runs through your body. It also has secret
healing properties. Regain 2 sTAMINA points. After
drinking up your tea, you follow Zoot into a courtyard
at the back of the house. You watch him crane his neck
into the sky and let out a high-pitched whistle. Mo-
ments later you make: out a speck in the sky; it grows
bigger as it glides down effortlessly towards you. Ik is
a huge, beautiful eagle, its feathers magnificent shades
of golden brown. With its wings still outstretched, it
lands unconcernedly in the courtyard. Turn to 7x.

214
The guard snarls and kicks the Gold Pieces out of your

hand. Swinging its spiked club above its head, it
lunges forward and attacks you. Turn to 198.

215
The gold ring is stamped with the number ‘30’ and
inscribed with the words ‘Seeing Is Believing’. If you want
to place the ring on your finger, turn to 384. If you would
rather leave it with the skeleton, you can now either climb
up the rope in pursuit of the Goblin (turn to 51) or leave
the room and go further up the tunnel (turn to 23).

216
In the Wererat’s pocket you find a Gold Piece with the
letter ‘Z’ stamped on it. However, there is nothing else

217

of use, so you jump into the boat and row yourself
across the river. You are about half-way across when
suddenly the boat turns of its own accord and starts to
float downriver and no amount of work on the oars
by you can alter its course. The river narrows as the
walls of the cavern close in. The roof of the cavern
lowers until you have to keep below the gunwale of
the boat to avoid bumping it. Thankfully, the narrow
tunnel soon opens out into another large cavern; this
one is filled with giant crystals, all sparkling and
glinting in the light of many torches. The boat veers
to the left and slides up on to a stony bank. You climb
out and stand facing two tunnels, The word ‘PITS’ is
chiselled into the stone above the left-hand tunnel, and
the word ‘PUZZLES’ is chiselled above the right-
hand one. Will you now:

Examine the giant crystals? Turn to 247
Enter the left-hand tunnel? Tum to 124
Enter the right-hand tunnel? Turn to 38

217

Gasping for breath, you reach down and pull out the
dagger. Forcing it under the warrior’s breastplate, you
plunge it into his chest, hoping that a pierced heart
may halt the undead assassin. Your desperate action is
rewarded with success. Once again, the Chaos Warrior
falls to the floor. Not waiting to see him rise again,
you leave the room, slamming the door behind you,
and turn right into the tunnel (turn to 1§1).

218—219

218

The folded paper is damp with sweat and an unsavoury
smell wafts up from it. Holding it gingerly by the
comers, you shake out the folds. A pair of blood-red
eyes are drawn on the paper. Suddenly they burst into
flame and your hands start to tremble uncontrollably.
You have been cursed! Deduct 2 points from your
SKILL. You drop the paper to the ground and the
trembling stops. Moose apologizes at great length,
blaming himself for your misfortune.

‘Forget it,’ you say reassuringly. ‘At least Zagor doesn’t
know I’m coming.’ You walk back to the path together
and there bid farewell once more; then you set off east
alone (turn to 16x).

219
You run through the archway into a circular room
with a marble floor. At the back of the room, marble
steps lead up to another archway, above which is a
single stone with the letter ‘Z’ embossed on it in gold.
But between you and the steps stand the four Death
Lords, huddled together on a gold crescent inlaid in
the marble floor; they are holding small metal spheres
above their heads, as though they are about to throw
them at you. They look at you coldly and start to
murmur an incantation. The floor starts to tremble as
their voices grow louder. Suddenly the floor all round
you opens up and you are left teetering on the edge
of a deep chasm. Will you try to jump across this
chasm (tum to 46) or use a magic item to halt the
earthquake (turn to 354)?

220-221

220
You empty out the Troglodyte’s pouch and find a
piece of slate with the word ‘arrow’ scratched on it.
You put this in your pocket and slide the throwing
dagger down the inside of your boot. Satisfied that
there is nothing else of interest in the room, you walk
over to the far door, Turn to 158.

221
As you draw closer to Firetop Mountain, you are
amazed at the sight of the once red peak, now coloured
a deathly black. When you reach the foot of the
mountain at fast, you can see how menacing it looks:
the steep face looks as if it has been savaged by the
claws of some gargantuan beast. You soon find the
dark cave entrance that you hope will take you to
Zagor. You peer into the gloom and see that the walls
are dripping with water which has formed into pools
on the stone floor. At the back of the cave is a tunnel,
lit by burning torches. The air here is cold and dank
and you can hear the sound of tiny feet scurrying
across the floor. Taking a last deep breath of fresh air,
you step into the cave and walk on into a tunnel,
almost at once coming to a junction. If you want to
turn left, turn fo 281. If you prefer to turn right, turn
to 140.

222-224

222
The door opens into a room which appears to have
been long forgotten: the floor is thick with dust and
debris, and there are cobwebs everywhere. The only
light comes through the open door. At the far end of
the room sit two skeletons, slumped in old oak chairs
opposite each other and with a table between them.
Both are wearing armour and appear to have been
playing some kind of board game before meeting
sudden death years ago. You notice that the game
pieces are all miniature dragons, half of them coloured
silver and half coloured gold. If you want to inspect
the game more closely, turn to 333. If you would
rather close the door and walk on up the tunnel, turn

to 373-

223
You lie completely motionless while the snake slides
across your body and slithers away into the under-
growth. You spring to your feet and set off for Kaad
without further delay. Turn to 379.

224
The Mindbender watches as you hold the garlic out in
front of you, then bursts out laughing.

‘I'm not one of the Undead,’ he says mockingly, ‘I am
very much alive. But you won't be for much longer.
The only thing you are good for is as spare parts in
our body pool.’ A mere flick of his fingers freezes your
limbs. You are carried off by Orc Guards to a busy

225-227

room where Zagor’s surgeons set to work on you.
Your adventure is over.

225

Before touching the sword, you make sure that it is
not wired up to a trap. When you are quite happy that
this is not a trap, you take the sword. If you were
previously without a sword, regain 2 SKILL points; if
you are already carrying a sword, you now have a
spare, which you tuck into your belt. If you wish to
open the old box, turn to 93. If you would rather
leave the room through the door in the far wall, turn
to 12K.

226
The door opens into a small room which appears to
have been an armoury a long time ago: there are three
broken swords standing in a rack, some broken spears
leaning against the wall in the far corner, and various
pieces of dented and rusty armour lying on shelves.
The floor is covered with a thick layer of dust and you
notice that there are footprints in the dust leading
over to the far wall. If you wish to walk over to the
far wall yourself, tum to 289. If you would rather
close the door and walk on to the third door, turn to

273.

227
On seeing you barge into the room, the Orc immedi-
ately kicks over the table, sending its stew bowl
flying. Grabbing its sword, the Orc leaps at you while
the Dwarf runs into the back room.

228-230

ORC SKILL 6

If you win, you take the Orc’s sword; however, you
hardly have time to catch your breath before the
Dwarf runs back into the room, swinging a warham-
mer,

DWARF SKILL 6
If you win, turn to 243.

STAMINA 5

STAMINA 4

228

The Witch walks slowly round the glass table and
points her crooked right index finger at you. A jagged
beam of white light shoots out from it and hits you on
the forehead, You are stunned momentarily and find
you cannot move; you can only watch helplessly as
she picks up another silver headband from the table and
places it round your forehead, In seconds your memory is
gone, never to return. Your adventure is over.

229

Three glass marbles are all that you find of interest in
the pockets of the Hobgoblin: one is purple, one is
green and the third is transparent. You put them in
your pocket, hoping they may be of use later. The
Hobgoblin was also wearing a helmet which looks as
if it may fit you, If you wish to try it on, turn to 298.
If you would rather return to the path and continue
south, tun to 238

230
The text on the page is too small to read. If you have
a magnifying glass, tum to 39, If you do not have a

231-233

magnifying glass, you will have to forget about the
page and set off along the hunnel (turn to 97).

231
You butriedly take the mirror out of your backpack
and, with eyes tight shut, hold it out in front of you,
hoping to reflect the Gorgon’s deadly gaze back at
her. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 96. If you
are Unlucky, turn to 256.

232

‘Alas, you have an inferior mind. Your observational
powers are useless, All you are good for is to supply
spare parts in our body pool," he says nonchalantly,
You draw your sword and make to strike at him but
find yourself unable to move: a mere flick of the
Mindbender's fingers freezes your limbs, Later you are
carried off by Ore Guards to a busy room where
Zagor’s surgeons set to work on you. Your adventure
is over.

233
You say hello to the little boy, but he doesn’t look up
from his toys. ‘If you're looking for Deep Sea, he's not
here,” the boy suys sulkily, ‘but if you give me a
wooden brick for my set, I'l go and fetch himf You
are amazed by the boy's cheek and feel like clipping
him round the ear. If you have-a wooden brick and are
willing to give it to the bay, tum to 136. If you do
not have a wooden brick or do not wish to give it to
the boy, turn to 44.

234-237

234
The spear flies past your head and clatters to the floor.

With the canister submerged in the acid jelly, the
wisps of green smoke disperse and disappear, causing
you no harm. If you have not done so already, you
may now rummage around in the dirt (tum to 242).
Otherwise, you have no choice but to leave the room
and walk on to the second door (turn to $6).

236
An arrow strikes you in the throat with deadly
accuracy and you topple to the ground. Your last
vision is of six heads in a circle above you, looking
down with smiling faces. Your adventure is over.

237
Half an hour later you come to a place where the path
splits. If you wish to keep walking east towards
Firetop Mountain, turn to 19. If you would rather tum
south towards Darkwood Forest and Yaztromo’s
Tower, tum to 120,

238

238

A brisk three-hour march brings you to the outskirts
of Stonebridge. You walk into the village and are
met by two Dwarfs. News travels fast in Allansia, for
one of them says, Welcome, stranger. We have been
expecting you.’ Seeing your puzzled look, he continues:
‘A messenger bird brought us the news from Anvil and
we wish to help you so that you can meet Yaztromo. It is
your good fortune that you came to visit us, because
Yaztromo is noi at his tower at present. He has gone to
the town of Kaad, which is far to the west of Stonebridge,
down the Red River. Plague has broken out there and he
has gone to help, but we are not sure if this is of Zagor’s
doing. We have a fast sailing boat that can get you there
in half a day; it is manned and ready to sail immediately.
Come now, follow us, we have no time to lose.’

You follow the two Dwarfs through the village to the
banks of the Red River, where a strange-looking sailing
vessel is moored: it is about ten metres long and is
narrow, but with canvassed racks sticking out on both
sides, A five-metre pole pokes threateningly out of the
bow, doubtless a ramming weapon, The mast is tall
and curved, somewhat resembling an enlarged long-
bow. The massive sails flap noisily in the wind, waiting
for someone to harness their power. Nine men stand
in line before the boat, their faces brown and lined,
as all seasoned sailors’ faces are. The Dwarf points
to the men and says, “These men are good friends
of the Dwarfs of Stonebridge. They will take you to
Kaad.’ Pointing at the shortest man, who is standing
at the head of the line, he continues, “This is Sach,
239-240

he’s in charge. The helmsman’s name is Lorrie. The
others are Fyll, Eeyun, Stooy, Crook, Maak, Neel
and Ndroo.’

You greet the crew and climb aboard, The vessel feels
very unstable, being so narrow, and starts to rock
from side to side, ‘We're out of here!’ shouts Lorrie,
jumping aboard, The two Dwarfs untie the boat as the
rest of the crew also jump on board. They rush about
their various tasks: pulling on ropes, balancing the
boat, trimming the huge sails. The boat pulls away
immediately, ploughing through the water at an alarm-
ing rate. Ahead, you notice a rowing boat lying upside-
down and bobbing along downstream. An Orc is
clinging to the upturned hull. If you want to tell Lorrie
to slow the boat in order to pick up the Orc, turn to
398. If you would rather sail on, turn to 136.

239
There is nothing you can do to escape the circle of
Mummies, so you will have to fight them with your
sword, Fight the six Mummies one at a time; each has
SKILL g and STAMINA 12, If somehow you manage to
win, um to Io.

240

The big bird glides down to earth and lands on top of
a large boulder that stands alone on the open plain.
Meanwhile the flying creature passes by overhead,
seemingly not interested in what is happening on the
ground, After five minutes you judge it safe to con-
tinue and recommence your flight to Firetop Mountain.
Turn to 166

241-242

241
You prise the gold tooth out of the dragon's jaw and
inspect it closely. It is plain and has no markings. You
put it in your pocket and inspect the dirty room.
Against one wall stands a small table on which there is
a human skull with a candle burning on top of it. You
notice that the top of the skull has been cut through. If
you wish to lift the top of the skull, turn to 165. If you
would rather leave this room and turn left into the
tunnel, turn to 32.

242
After five minutes spent poking around in the dirt
with your sword, you come up with 1 Gold Piece, a
tin whistle and an onyx egg, You pack away your
findings and decide what to do next. If you have not
done so already, you may tug on the chain which is
bolted to the wal] (tur to 332). Otherwise, there is
nothing for you to do but leave the room and walk to
the second door (tur to 56).

a: lee

243-246

243
If you are suffering from Zagor’s Curse of the Demon's

Breath, tum to x97. Otherwise will you:
Leave the room and turn right into

the tunnel? Tum to 13
Open the wooden crate? Turn to 375
Enter the back room? Turn to 132

244
There is only half a sentence on the page; it reads;
numbered 94 and destroys an Ait Elemental of Chaos. You
memorize the words and decide what next to do. Will
you:

Put the copper bracelet on your
wrist? Tum to 62

Hang the pendant round your neck? Turn to 105

Put the bracelet and the pendant in
your backpack?

Take a look at the weapons, if you
have not already done so?

Leave the room and walk on up the
tunnel? Tum to rg1

Turn to 313

Tur to 206

You ignore the old man’s plea and walk on towards
Kaad, leaving him spluttering and cursing behind you.
Turn to 271.

246
The poisonous smoke is lethal. You sink to your knees
and soon lose consciousness. Your adventure is over.

247-248

247
Walking among the giant crystals, you come across a
treasure chest which is filled with gems. If you wish to
take a handful of diamonds, tum to 342. If you wish to
leave the treasure, you may enter either the left-hand
tunnel (turn to 124) or the right-hand tunnel (turn to
38).

: 248
After the fight you are exhausted, so you sit down on
the ground for a few moments to recover. A leather
pouch on the Ogre’s belt contains a silver key and a
lump of cheese. You decide to eat the cheese (regain 1
STAMINA point) and keep the silver key. You also
decide to take the Ogre’s spear; you haul yourself to
your feet and set off again for Firetop Mountain. Turn
to 86.

249-251

249

The door opens into another corridor; this, you see,
leads into a long, marble-floored hallway which is
roughly twice the width of the corridor and is lined
with what appear to be statues, three on either side.
But in fact the statues are all Mummies, their shrivelled
bodies wrapped in stained hessian. You enter the
hallway on tiptoe, looking around as you go; at the far
end of the hallway there is a door. A clock suddenly
chimes and the Mummies all move and begin to climb
down from their columns, Not one of them is aware of
your presence . ,. yet. If you have a Ring of Invisibility,
turn to 328. if you do not have a Ring of Invisibility,
turn to 85.

250

The rest of the day passes without incident and, as the
light starts to fade, you begin to think about finding a
place to sleep for the night. You know the Dwarf
village of Stonebridge is not far away, although you
do wonder whether you will be able to reach it before
nightfall. Will you find somewhere to sleep while it’s
still light (turn to 329) or keep walking towards Stone-
bridge (turn to 143)?

251
The slime shoots out and a large gobbet splashes on
your cheek: it is acidic and starts to bum. Deduct 1
point from your STAMINA. You wipe the mess off as
fast as you can, but the acid continues to burn. If you
have a water bottle, turn to 293. If you do not have a
water bottle, turn to 16.

252-254

252

You try to dive to one side, out of the way of the net,
but your reactions are too slow. The large net pins
you to the ground and, before you can untangle
yourself, the point of a blade is being pressed against
your throat and a heavy boot is pressing your head to
the floor. Out of the corner of your eye you see a
Goblin standing over you with an evil grin on its face.
Your adventure is over.

253

The portcullis bars your entry to another tunnel; it is
too heavy to lift. On the wall on the other side of the
portcullis there are two levers, just out of reach. You
walk on to the place where the tunnel ends and poke
around in the rubble. Here you find a small metal
canister which contains a large bronze tooth with the
number ‘280’ stamped on it. You put the tooth in your
pocket and walk back down the tunnel. Turn to 3.

254
The Vampire leaps at you with its mouth wide open,
intent on sucking your blood.

VAMPIRE SKILL 10 STAMINA 15

You will be able to kill the Vampire only if you are
fighting with a silver dagger. If you do not have a
silver dagger, you will soon discover that your sword
cannot harm it. As soon as you win an Attack Round,
you may escape by running out of the room and up
the tunnel (tum to 172). If you win, using the silver
dagger, turn to 390.

255-256

255

The old man stares at the coin for a few seconds
longer, then looks up and says, ‘I don’t know of
anybody with the initial “N” who coins his own Gold
Pieces. But who am I to complain? A Gold Piece is a
Gold Piece. Thanks a lot, stranger. 1 wish you luck.
Goodbye.’ The old man walks away; but he was a
shaman, and wishing you good luck will bring you
luck. Regain 2 Luck points. For a moment you watch
him walking slowly down the track, before you turn
towards Kaan (tum to 271).

Your shaking hands fail to hold the mirror at the

256
correct angle to reflect the Gorgon’s gaze back at her.
The towering monster is almost on top of you, and
now you will have to defend yourself with your
sword (turn to 393).

eS
257-260

257
The Warrior’s outstretched hands manage to clutch

the collar of your tunic. You feel his vice-like grip on
your throat as the undead Warrior blindly tries to
strangle you. As you struggle to free yourself, you are
forced to drop your sword. If you have a dagger in
your boot, tum to 217. If you do not have one, turn
to 311.

258

Casually looking up:into the sky, you see a white
dove flying towards the boat. Before it can land,
however, a large, jet-black, predatory bird swoops
down on the dove, clutching it in its long, sharp
talons. The dove flutters its wings in resistance but is
carried off by the sleek Blood Hawk to some distant
nest to be fed to its young. Turn to 11.

259
The key does not fit the lock — and a sudden pain
shoots up your arm, as if you had been hit by a
lightning bolt. Deduct 2 points from your STAMINA.
Will you now try the bronze key (turn to 148) or the
brass key (turn to 75)?

260
The old man becomes angry and steps out of the boat.
‘You'll pay for wasting my time!’ he says in a voice
that sounds almost animal. He starts to expand in size:
a bulging torso replaces his hollow chest, his jaw
elongates and his bared teeth are sharp and pointed.
Thick hair sprouts all over his body. The old man has

261

transformed himself into a Wererat! With claws out-
stretched he attacks.

WERERAT SKILL 8 STAMINA 5

If you win, turn to 216.

261

You don’t manage to jump over all the skulls but land
on top of one. It rolls away under your foot and you
turn your ankle, losing your balance and falling to the
floor, sending skulls flying in all directions. For an
instant you are stunned, and you open your eyes to
find yourself face to face with a wall of skulls shuffling
towards you, their jaws snapping open and shut repeat-
edly and making an eerie clacking sound which echoes
round the room. One suddenly shoots forward and
bites painfully into your left ear, Twenty more skulls
follow suit, each trying to find an exposed area of
flesh to nip. Roll one die and deduct the number rolled
from your STAMINA. If you are still alive, you jump up
and run into the new tunnel (turn to 314).

eS — i
262-265

262

You tell the Inquisitor that you are ready. ‘Good,’ he
replies. ‘There are two puzzles that you have to solve.’
He holds out his arms in front of him and suddenly a
sword appears in his right hand and a dagger appears
in his left hand. ‘The sword and dagger that you see
are together worth 300 Copper Pieces. The sword is
worth 200 Copper Pieces more than the dagger. How
much is the dagger worth?’ If you can work out the
answer, tum to the paragraph with that number. If you
do not know the answer, turn to 127.

263
With your back pressed firmly against a large boulder,
you think about the creatures of the night that stalk
the plain. There is some wood close by, enough to
build a fire. If you wish to make a fire, tum to 28. If
you would rather go to sleep, turn to 359.

264

You hear a metallic ‘click’ and the panel drops down a
centimetre. You grip the handle and pull out a metal
drawer. Inside the drawer you find a large dragon's
tooth made of gold; it has the number ‘94’ scratched
on it Add 1 tuck point. You leave the chamber with
renewed determination and walk back down the tunnel
and on past the junction (turn to 4).

265
The Gorgon casts her gaze down at you and your
eyes meet. You are caught by her deadly stare and
transfixed by it. Terrible pain creeps through your

266-269

limbs as they start to stiffen and turn to stone. A
fourth statue will soon adom the Gorgon’s lair. Your
adventure is over.

266
Your quick thinking saves your life. The blood flows
freely from your self-inflicted wound and the poison
drips out with it. It may be a painful way to save your
life, but it works. Will you now take a look at the staff
(turn to 20) or leave the room and pursue the Death
Lords (turn to 219)? -

267
You have to run hard to keep up with Moose. He zig-
zags through the undergrowth, glancing down at the
ground occasionally for prints. All at once he stops
and puts his arm up for you to stop running too. You
hear a rustle of branches to your left, followed by a
piercing howl. Will you charge into the bushes towards
the noise (turn to 72) or stand your ground (tum to

374)?

268
‘I only bet gold against gold,’ the Barbarian continues
‘No gold, no bet,’ If you have something made of gold
that you are willing to bet with, turn to 326. If you do not
have a golden object to bet with, you mu:* tell the
Barbarian that you don’t want to bet after all (turn to 380).

269
Sitting down on the smooth, polished chair, you imme-
diately feel very relaxed and drowsy. You cannot stop

270-271

yourself from falling into a long, deep sleep. You
eventually wake up — after how long you don’t know
— but when you try to stand up you find you cannot
move. You start to panic and try frantically to move,
but you find it’s impossible. You have fallen victim to
the Sap Chair. In time you will shrink to a height of no
more than ten centimetres and will form part of the
ornate detail on the chair. Your adventure is over.

270
Just in time, you dive sideways out of the way of the
falling cage. It crashes to the floor with a loud clang.
The cage is locked in place and now you cannot move
it and reach the panel. You decide there is nothing else
for you to do here, so you leave the room and walk
down the tunnel and on past the last junction (turn to

4).

271
Hours later, you arrive at a jetty on the riverbank
where a tributary runs into the Red River, and, judging

272-273

by the number of people milling around, you deduce
that you cannot be too far from Kaad. The people are
dressed in tattered clothing. They all look downcast
with their chins on their chests, and hardly any of
them are talking. Most are carrying small bundles and
sacks. You decide to approach one of them, a tal! man
with a black beard, and ask him what is happening. He
tells you solemnly that he is waiting for a boat to take
him upriver to Silverton, in order to escape the plague
which is devastating Kaad. You ask him if he knows
the whereabouts of Yaztromo, and he replies that he
last saw the wizard, mixing potions to give the sick
people, in the town square. The man tells you to
follow the narrow tributary north for a short distance,
and you will come to Kaad. Tum to 182. .

272
‘We already have a referee,’ says the Troglodyte with
a frown. ‘Who sent you?’ Unable to think of a name,
you decide to make a run for it to the door. You push
the Troglodyte out of the way and race out of the
door, turning right. The Lizard Men immediately give
chase, with their spears raised. The first one in the
tunnel hurls his spear after you as you run away. Roll
one die. If the number rolled is 1-3, turn to 234. If the
number is 4—6, turn to 141,

273
The next door in the tunnel is made of solid iron. You
press your ear against the cold metal but hear nothing.
If you want to open the door, tun to 87. If you would
rather walk further up the tunnel, turn to 23.

274-276

274

You manage to grab the tail of the earwig between your
forefinger and thumb just as it is disappearing inside
your ear. The tiny needle-like legs dig into your ear as
you carefully pull the earwig out. By now it is covered
with your blood and wriggles around madly between
your finger and thumb. You have saved yourself from a
gruesome death by a Brainbiter, one of Zagor’s favourite
enchanted assassins. You crush the Brainbiter underfoot,
then walk to the door before you (turn to 149).

275
The snake’s fangs strike at your armour rather than
your exposed flesh. Having failed to bite you, it
recoils into its basket, its venom spent. You slam the
lid back on the basket to keep the snake inside. Will
you now take a look at the staff (turn to 20) or leave
the room and pursue the Death Lords (tum to 219)?

276

Before you have time to react, the rat’s sharp teeth
make an incision in your throat. The cut may only be
small — but it is big enough to allow Zagor's poison to
be injected into you from the rat's teeth. Roll one die
and deduct the number rolled from your stTAMINA
score. Groggy from the poison, you finally manage to
tear the rat away from your throat and crush it under
the heel of your boot, Cursing the Goblins, you leave
the cellar and walk back to the path to continue south
(turn to 238).

‘a4

c
-
-

277-279

277

Unknown to you, you have placed a Ring of Undead
Calling on your finger. There is a sudden blinding
flash, out of which appears a dark figure wearing a
long, hooded cloak; it walks slowly towards you,
brandishing two shimmering daggers. You catch a
glimpse of the creature’s face and the sight turns your
stomach: the face is drawn and lifeless with decaying
skin stretched so tightly across it that it is torn and
festering. A maggot suddenly wriggles out of one of
the creature’s eye sockets and drops to the floor. You
have summoned a Death Head, whose sole purpose is
to burn your flesh with its white-hot knives.

DEATH HEAD SKILL 9 STAMINA 9

Unless you have a silver dagger, the Death Head will
lose only 1 sTAMINA point if it loses an Attack Round
If you win, turn to 35.

278
You grope around on your hands and knees and discover
that you are in a small, stone-walled chamber which you
believe is empty. You find a large hole in one of the
walls, and you deduce that this must be the entrance to
another tunnel, Seeing no sense in staying in the dark
chamber, you crawl along the new tunnel (turn to 372).

229
The rock hits the Metallix’s shoulder and it lets out a
yelp of pain. If you wish to catry on throwing rocks at
the Metallix, turn to 183. If you prefer to attack it
with your sword now, tum to 195.
280-281

280
You throw the dragon’s tooth on the floor, but nothing
happens. It is made of silver and has no Elemental
powers. You are doomed, as Zagor’s Elemental bears
down on you. Turn to 365.

281
You soon arrive at a stretch of the tunnel where it
curves to the right, and you come across a short,
humanoid skeleton propped up in a recess in the wall.
The skeleton is wearing leather armour which is dusty
and cracked; there are cobwebs over its face and its
jaw hangs open. It must have stood here, undisturbed,
for years. You walk on round the comer and see three
doors in a row along the left-hand wall. All three
doors are heavily padlocked and iron bars are bolted

282

across them; they do not appear to have been opened
for years. You soon come to a junction. Looking left,
you see that in a further ten metres the tunnel ends at
a wall. You turn right and come to another junction. If
you wish to turn left here, turn to 37. If you prefer to
keep going straight on, turn to 1§2.

282
You look around and observe that the Witch is still
lying, unconscious, on the floor. Looking back down
at the lifeless Dog Beast, you see the sparkling jewel
in its headband. If you want to wear the headband,
turn to 338. If you would rather search the chamber,
furn to 115.

283

283
| The door opens into a large room with a domed
ceiling. The floor is made of polished marble on which
three statues stand facing you, each mounted on a
marble plinth. The statues are of warriors, and they all
look as though their faces were set in stone at the
very moment of a horrible death. Their open mouths
and screwed-up eyes give the impression of sudden
and intense pain. A fourth plinth stands on the floor,
but with no statue mounted on it, and there is another
door in the wall opposite. As you enter the room to
. take a closer look at the statues, the door behind you

t slams shut; at the same time, a wide section of one
a wall starts to rise up. You can see the tail of a huge
bE snake flick out from under the rising wall and you hear
gi loud hissing sounds. Will you:
Rai Try to open the new door? Turn to 138
| Av) Try to open the door you came
Ne through? Turn to 381
me Get ready to fight? Turn to 294
i

284-285

284

A pouch on the Cave Troll’s belt holds 3 Copper
Pieces, some garlic, a crude metal ear-ring in the shape
of an earwig, and a piece of paper with the word ‘Leg’
written on it, Perhaps the Cave Troll was on a mission
to find Zagor a leg for his new body. You may take
any or all of the Copper Pieces, the garlic and the
piece of paper, and decide what to do with the ear-
ring. If you want to wear it, tum to 100. Otherwise,
you walk up to the door ahead (turn to 149).

285

One of the polished steel spheres slices into your
forearm and lodges there. Strangely, no blood appears
but, when you try to pull the missile out, you find it
impossible to do so. Your vision begins to blur and
seconds later you pass out. When you reawaken, you
find yourself on a marble table and two Death Lords
are hovering above you wielding sharp knives. In less
than an hour Zagor will have a new arm — yours! Your
adventure is over.

> U8 Cos

286—287

286
You open your mouth to speak, but Dan immediately
interrupts with another rhyme.

‘Take a mushroom, I won't tell;
When you’re ilf, it will make you well.’

You realize that talking to Dan would be a waste of time;
you accept his gift gratefully, putting the mushroom in
your backpack. Dan then sets off with his donkey
towards Anvil, leaving you to continue east (turn to 237),

‘Do not try to trick me by pretending to be friendly
For a start my name is not Fergus Finn. | was going to
tell you my secrets, but I’ve changed my mind. Kill me
if you like, but you won't get another word out of
me,’ the man declares confidently. You try an assort-
ment of other names and do your best to convince the
man that he can trust you, but you get no response:
he remains completely silent. You even try to free him
frorn his chains, but he waves his arms about frantically,
trying to keep you away. You decide that the poor
man has gone mad and decide to leave the room and
walk further up the tunnel (turn to 387)
288-289

288

Smashing your lantern with the butt of your sword,
you twirl it round your head, hoping to spray the
advancing Mummies with burning oil. Roll one die:
the number you roll is the number of Mummies you
set on fire, their bone-dry bandages igniting like tinder.
The remaining Mummies (if there are any) you must
fight with your sword. Fight them one at a time; each
has SKILL 9 and sTAMINA 12. If you win, you know
you will have a few minutes to escape before they
come back to life. Running towards the door at the
end of the hallway, you make your exit (turn to 102).

289
While you are walking across the dusty floor, the door
swings shut behind you. The moment the door closes,
some of the broken weapons start to move of their
own accord: the swords rise from their rack and the
spears move out of the corner. You find yourself

<2.

ee

290

surrounded by a circle of hovering weapons. Will you:

Make a run for the door? Turn to 74
Fight the weapons? Tum to 147
Drop your own sword? Turn to 348

290

You scan through a couple of chapters and learn that
lizard’s blood is the main ingredient in many potions
of evil magic. ‘Disease’, ‘Create Zombie’, Blood Eye’
and ‘Drain Life’ are just a few of the potions that
require Vampire's blood. You memorize the informa-
tion and walk through the cavem and into the tunnel
at the far end {turn to 337).

291-292

I
You tell the Pitmaster that you are ready to fight.

‘Good,’ he replies. ‘There are two fights that you must
win.’ He leads you over to the smaller of the two pits.
Looking down, you see a bloated creature three metres
tall and almost two wide; it looks a little like a giant
toad. It has green horned skin on its back and a soft,
yellowish underbelly, covered with red spots. Its head
is large and its main feature is a wide mouth with two
rows of long, spiked teeth, while two bulbous red
eyes protrude above slimy nostrils, It has powerful
arms and sharp-clawed hands the size of dragon’s feet.
Drool runs down its bottom jaw as it catches sight of
you, and the creature starts to work itself into a
fighting frenzy. You breathe in deeply before jumping
into the pit to face the Chaos Slime Beast

CHAOS SLIME BEAST skitL12 STAMINA 12

After each Attack Round, roll one die to determine
whether the Slime Beast's acidic drool that it spits at
you touches your flesh. On a roll of 1-3 the Slime
Beast misses, but a roll of 4-6 means that it hits you
and inflicts damage involving the loss of an additional
1 STAMINA point. If you win, turn to g.

292
With your help the skeleton crew manage to hoist the
sails and the boat is quickly under way, leaving the war
canoes far behind.

‘Lean out, you lot, and hike! No more stops until

293

Kaad,’ snarls Lorrie, pulling hard at the helm. You
ignore him, lost in the thought that you were respons-
ible for the death of so many of the crew, and you sit
huddled in a cloud of despondency. Nobody speaks
for an hour. Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, tum to
40. If you are Unlucky, turn to 258.

293
You pour water over your burning skin. The water
quickly neutralizes the acid and the buming stops. The
wounded Sucker Worm is writhing around and flops
off the box on to the floor. Seizing your opportunity,
you grab the box and scramble up out of the pit. Back
in the tunnel, you shake the box but no sound comes
from it, Gently you lift the lid and find that the box
contains nothing other than a page from a tiny book.
You turn the box over and see that the word ‘ire’ is
scratched on its base. The box is quite large and, if
you wish to put it in your backpack and take it with
you, you will have to leave two other items behind
(remove them from your Equipment List). Now you
may either read the page from the book (turn to 230)
or walk further up the tunnel (turn to 97).

294-296

294
Will you fight your new adversary with your eyes
open (turn to 265) or closed {turn to 31)?

295
As you enter the room, the woman’s appearance
changes and in front of you now stands a hideous-
looking, hunchbacked Witch. Her wiry, bent and hairy
fingers end in long, dirty nails. Her eyes are dark and
hollow and her clothes are tattered rags. With her
illusion dropped she can now concentrate on other
types of magic. Tum to 228.

296
The Skeletons suddenly break off their argument and
turn to face the common foe — you! Standing in a line,
they attack you one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
First SKELETON 6 5
Second SKELETON 6 4
Third SKELETON 5 5
Fourth SKELETON 5 4
Fifth SKELETON 6 4

If you win, turn to 6r1.

297-299

297
The rat scurries off with half of the dragon’s tooth in
its jaws, leaving the Fire Elemental! stuck to the floor,
flickering harmlessly. Seconds later, the massive Earth
Elemental is upon you (turn to 365).

298

As soon as you put the helmet on your head you get
a terrible headache; the pain increases and becomes
unbearable. Then you.take off the helmet and the pain
stops. But something awful has taken place: you can
no longer see anything in its real perspective. The
Helmet of Confusion has made everything appear
distorted, as though you were looking at a convex
mirror. Deduct 3 points from your sKILt and 2 points
from your Luck. All the trees and plants that surround
you now look short and bulbous. Feeling extraordi-
narily sad and confused, you return to the path and
head south, trying to adjust to the new environment
you are seeing (turn to 238).

299
You try to grab the tail of the earwig as it disappears
inside your ear, but you are too slow. The pain
increases as it starts to gnaw its way inside your head
with its sharp, metal teeth. You have fallen victim to a

SE —— —— Se =

300—~401

Brainbiter, one of Zagor’s favourite enchanted assas-
sins, Your adventure is over.

300
‘Guard! Call the guard! We have an intruder,’ shouts
the doorman. The door is flung open and three green-
skinned Lizard Men barge through the doorway, each
wearing spiked leather armour and wielding a spear.
You step back, sword drawn. Do you wish to turn and
mun up the tunnel (tum to 367) or stand and fight the
Lizard Men {tum to 137)?

301
You explain at great length how you obtained the gold
and why you are now on a mission to slay Zagor.

‘Why didn’t you say so in the first place?’ the hunch-
back retorts.

‘You didn’t ask,’ you reply sarcastically. ‘And now, if
you don’t mind, how about straightening my back?’

‘Ah, slight problem there, I'm afraid,’ the hunchback
mutters, looking a little sheepish. Tm not quite up to

301

that sort of hocus-pocus. However, since you are on
your way to see Yaztromo, I suggest you get him to
straighten you out; he’s good at that kind of thing. Or
maybe someone in Kaad can fix you up. Now I| must
be on my way. Sorry about the confusion, but you
just can’t trust anybody these days. Cheerio and good
huck!’

Hardly believing what is happening, you watch the
old man shuffle off, leaving you to walk to Kaad,
burdened by a not insignificant stoop. But the old man
was a shaman, and wishing you good luck will bring
you good luck. Regain 2 tuck points and turn to 271.

302-304

302

The snake’s fangs sink deep into your forearm, injecting
you with deadly poison. Deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA. You make a cut in your arm where the
snake bite is and hope that the poison will bleed out.
But have you done it quickly enough? Roll one die
and keep rolling until you have a total of 20 points. If
this takes you 5 rolls or fewer, turn to 266. If it takes
you 6 rolls or more, turn to 378.

393
You loop the rope round the metal spike and lower
yourself slowly down into the inky blackness of the
shaft. You reach the bottom, a few metres below, and
retrieve your rope. If you are carrying a lantern, turn
to 80. If you do not have a lantern, tur to 278.

304
The tunnel seems to be never-ending, but finally you
arrive at a T-junction. If you want to go to the left,
tum to rog. If you prefer to go right, turn to 449.

305-306

305

The door opens and you behold a lavishly furnished
chamber: the walls are covered with red and purple
silk drapes and there are large, brightly coloured cush-
ions lying on the floor. There is an alcove in the far
wall out of which a young boy appears, carrying a
bowl; he is wearing a silver headband with a large
jewel set in the centre. He carries the bow! over to a
glass table where a beautiful woman is grinding compo-
nents with a mortar and pestle. She too is wearing a
headband, but hers is made of tiny flowers. Her
gossamer-thin robes billow in the draught from the
tunnel and she looks up and smiles at you.

‘Come in and close the door, she says in an alluring
voice. If you are wearing a gold ring with the words
‘Seeing Is Believing’ inscribed on it, turn to the para-
graph with the number that is the same as that on the
ring. If you are not wearing this ring, turn to 146.

306
You pull your sword free from the Tracker’s chest and,
looking round, see that Moose has also been victorious,
despite a deep gash in his left arm. A search of the
Trackers’ bodies reveals 6 Gold Pieces, each stamped
with the letter ‘Z’. You agree to keep three each, and
you also take two steel daggers. Not content with
emptying pockets, Moose pulls the boots off the
Trackers and gives them a shake. A folded piece of
brown-stained paper falls to the ground. ‘’m not
touching that smelly thing,’ laughs Moose. ‘If you
want it, you can have it.’ If you do as Moose suggests,

EE Se | -—O OS CF Ct—~<“~S~;3Z;C Chm
39°7

turn to 218. If you would rather leave the paper on
the ground, turn to 106.

- 307

The worm slips off the box almost immediately. You
seize your opportunity, grab the box and scramble out
of the pit. Back in the tunnel, you shake the box but
can hear no rattling coming from it. You cautiously lift
the lid, only to discover that the box contains nothing
more than a page from a tiny book. You tum the box
over and see that the word Fire’ is scratched on its
underside. The box is quite large and, if you wish to
put it in your backpack and take it with you, you will
have to leave two other items behind (cross them off
your Eguipment List}. After deciding what to do, you
may now either read the page from the book (tum to
230) or walk further up the tunnel (tun to 97).

308-309

308
You walk to the end of the tunnel and have a poke
around in the rubble. You find a small metal canister
containing a large bronze tooth with the number ‘280’
stamped on it. You put the tooth in your pocket and
walk back down the tunnel (turn to 3).

309
You find Hobnail Street without much difficulty. Your
knock on the door of Number 36 is answered by a tall,
thin max hose ears are slightly pointed and who is
wearing bri ht red trousers.

‘Hello, he -.ys in a slow, calm voice. ‘My name is
Zoot Zimmer and you must be the person who wants
to get to Firetop Mountain in a hurry. I can see by
your expression that you are wondering how | know
that. Well, I heard you talking to Yaztromo — I’ve got
rather good hearing, you see. I'm a Half-Elf. Please
come in.’

310-312

You follow Zoot into his house, the rooms of which
are decorated to resemble a forest. All the walls have
trees, bushes, plants, small animals and insects painted
all over them from floor to ceiling and all in incredible
detail, giving a very realistic effect. ‘T's the Elf in me!’
laughs Zoot. ‘My mother was from the Vale of Willow;
she lived with me here until she died of the plague.
The decorations made her feel at home. She never did
like living in a town.’ His face suddenly loses its
happiness and a deep frown takes over. Would you
like some of my special herbal tea before we set off,’
Zoot asks.

If you would like some tea to drink, turn to 213. If
you prefer to decline his offer and demand that you
set off immediately, turn to 361.

310
At least one crossbow bolt finds its mark and sinks into
your neck. You are dead before you hit the water.
Your adventure is over.

311
Gasping for breath, your strength ebbs as the warrior’s
grip tightens. His own strength is monumental and he
lifts you off the ground by your neck. You quickly
lose consciousness and death soon follows. Your adven-
ture is over.

312
The crew react by easing the sails and balancing the
boat quickly and without undue effort, their long

—[ _

312

experience making the task look easy. The boat contin-
ues its speedy voyage downriver, until at last it
glides to a halt at a jetty on the riverbank, where a
narrow tributary from the north joins the river. You
jump off the boat and thank the crew; as they turn the
boat around to sail back upriver, you approach the
people standing on the jetty. There are quite a number
milling around, most of them poor and dressed in
tattered clothing. They are carrying small bundles and
sacks, and all appear sad and downcast. You start a
conversation with a tall man wearing a black beard
and learn that he is waiting for a boat to take him
uptiver to Silverton, so as to escape the plague which
is devastating Kaad. You ask him if'he knows the
whereabouts of Yaztromo; he replies that he last saw
the wizard in the town square, mixing potions to give
to sick people. The man tells you that if you follow
the narrow tributary north for a short distance, you
will come to Kaad. Tur to 182.

| Rl

313—315

513
If you have any garlic in your backpack, turn to 78.
Otherwise, you may, if you have not already done so,
take a look at the weapons (turn to 206) or leave the
room and walk further up the tunnel (turn to 151).

314

The tunnel ends at a solid wooden door. You try the
handle and it turns. The door opens into another
small, stone-walled room with a door in the wall
opposite. There is ‘a trapdoor in the floor in the
middle of the room, which is empty — apart from an
omate oak chair, carved with figures, standing in one
corner. Will you:

Open the door opposite? Turn to 283
Open the trapdoor? Turn to 368
Sit on the oak chair? Turn to 269

315

You drop the third golden tooth on the floor and
watch it break in Ewo, A jet of flame shoots up from
the floor and forms into a huge, fiery humanoid: a Fire
Elemental, The Earth Elemental strides down the hall -
but, strangely, the Fire Elemental does not move to
defend you. As Zagor’s Elemental gets closer you start
to worry; then you notice that a rat has picked up one
half of the dragon’s tooth and is on the point of
running off with it. Unless both halves are touching
the ground, the Elemental cannot be fully released. If
you have a throwing dagger, turn to 14. If you do not
have a throwing dagger, tum to 297.

316

316

The Doppelganger screams, then disintegrates and
drifts away like smoke on the wind. You sheathe your
sword and breathe a deep sigh of relief, You walk
quickly into town and make straight for the town
square; there you find a crowd of people huddled
round a lone figure: an old man with long white hair
and a white beard and wearing scarlet robes, Yaztromo!
You call out his name and are able to hear his stern
reply above the noise of the crowd: ‘Who in the world
wants me now at a time like this?’ You are so reassured
by his grumpy tone that it almost bringx a-smile to
your face — except for the fact that he is surrounded
by very sick townsfolk. You tell him your name and
ask him to spare you a few minutes to help you
prepare for your coming ordeal with Zagor.

‘Zagor!’ he shouts. Tf I hear another person utter that
infernal warlock’s name once moze, I'll turn ther into
toads!’ Yaztromo waves his arms around and indulges
in some unwizardly cursing, until finally he calms

316

down and says, ‘Now, my good people of Kaad, pass
this potion of mine among you and you'll soon be as
fit as firefoxes, | must go and see to this young
whippersnapper who has just barged in unannounced.’

You walk away from the crowd with Yaztromo, telling
him of your quest and asking for his help.

‘Well, as you can see, my help is needed here, so I am
unable to accompany you. You will have to face
Zagor alone and, since he is stronger now than he was
ten years ago, you will need to call upon superhuman
forces to combat his extraordinary magical powers.
You must find the Elementals! Only the Elementals can
save you from certain death when facing Zagor. Their
material form is that of dragons’ teeth cast in gold,
each stamped with a number. Each tooth has a special
power, but you must learn the magic word that releases
their elemental powers, Then it will simply be a matter
of throwing the teeth on the floor in order to activate
them. Curiously enough, you will find the dragons’
teeth inside the labyrinths of Firetop Mountain. It is
part of the price for invoking the Raise Dead spell that
its user must offer the chance of his own demise. But,
as you would expect, Zagor has hidden the dragons’
teeth carefully, You'll need at least two — but the more
the merrier, as they say. Now, I must return to my
patients.” Yaztromo gives you a hearty slap on the
back then returns to the sick people of Kaad, He stops
for a moment, looks back at you and says, ‘Go and see
Zoot Zimmer in Hobnail Street. He’s got a giant eagle
that could fly you to Firetop Mountain. And it might
be worth paying a visit to Deep Sea Dowland’s store

517

in Pudding Street. He’s got some useful items in there.
Here’s some gold to spend.’ Yaztromo hurls a leather
pouch in your direction, then turns to his ailing towns-
folk without waiting for you to thank him.

You set off without further delay, heading for Pudding
Street. You find Deep Sea’s store at the end of a row
of shops. Sitting outside the shop is a smal] boy who
is playing with some wooden bricks. [f you want to
talk to the boy, turn to 233. If you would rather enter
the store without delay, turn to 445.

317
You examine the breastplate carefully, ever mindful of
traps and evil magic, but it looks perfectly normal so
you put it on. It is extremely well crafted and will help
to protect you. Regain i sxttL point and 1 Luck
point. Seeing nothing else of interest, you open the
door in the far wall (turn to 170).
318-320

318

You soon come upon a man who is lying, stripped to
the waist and staked out on the ground, Somebody
has spread honey over his chest and face and he is
being stung by hundreds of red ants that are crawling
all over him. You hasten to cut him free, then roll him
in the dirt to get the ants off him. Although he is in
great pain from the angry red bite marks that cover
his body, he is not in mortal danger. ‘Bandits ambushed
me while I was riding along the path. Before taking off
with my horse, they decided to make me pay for
killing their leader in the fight. Thanks to you, their
plan has failed. Here, take this as a reward, stranger;
it’s a Ring of Invisibility. | suppose I should have used
it to hide from the bandits, but it is a very old ring
and has only one more charge left. Off you go now.
Don’t worry about me. As soon as my horse is left
alone for even a second by those infernal bandits, he'll
come galloping back to me.’ After making sure the
man is fit enough to be left on his own, you head
south along the path (turn to 250)

319
The Ogre’s throw is accurate; the spear thuds into
your back, sending you sprawling to the ground in a
cloud of dust. The Ogre reaches you quickly and
wastes no time in finishing you off, his mission for
Zagor completed. Your adventure is over.

320
The object in your hand is the original lucky charm. It
was made by the wizard Probabus who heid strange
321-322

ideas as to what things in the universe were important.
He believed that luck was the all-important force, and
that some people and creatures were born with it; he
did not believe that people were lucky or unlucky as
the result of random occurrences. Probabus liked lucky
people and disliked unlucky ones, considering as worth-
less anyone who did not possess plenty of good luck
... You are down on your luck. The lucky charm
detects your want of good luck and punishes you.
Deduct 2 points from your sKILL and 4 points from
your STAMINA. If you are still alive, you throw the
lucky charm to the floor, leave the room and turn left
into the tunnel (turn to 32)

321
The noise of breaking glass echoes down the tunnel,
and you grip your sword in case the noise attracts the
attention of someone you do not want to meet. On
the floor you find a small brass egg. You put it in your
pocket, then walk back past the junction and march on
down the tunnel. Turn to 28r,

322
The text on the page is too small to read. If you have
a magnifying glass, turn to 244. If you do not have a
magnifying glass, will you now:

Put the copper bracelet on your
wrist? Turn to 62
' Hang the pendant round your neck? Turn to ro5
Put the bracelet and pendant in your

backpack? Turn to 313

323-325

Take a look at the weapons, if you
have not already done so?

Leave the room and walk on up the
tunnel? Turn to 151

Turn to 206

323

The message reads: ‘Demon's breath, slow death:
Unless you eat some Orc fleas, you will die by this
curse! Zagor’. A short blast of warm, stinking air
envelops you; this is demon’s breath you have in-
haled, and it will slowly poison you. From now on,
each time you tum to a new paragraph you must
reduce your STAMINA by 1 point. If you fail to eat
any Orc fleas before your STAMINA is reduced to zero,
you will die. You waste no time entering the tunnel
{turn to 372).

324

You try to dive to one side, out of the way of the
falling cage, but your reactions are too slow. The cage
ctushes down on the floor with a loud clang, trapping
you inside. You try to lift the cage, but it is firmly
locked in place. It won't be long before you are
discovered by an Orc guard and are taken in chains to
Zagor's surgeons. Your adventure is over

525
Sleek and protected by thick, silver scales, Razorfish
attack viciously by ripping at thier victims’ flesh with
their rows of razor-sharp teeth. The river is soon red
with the blood of the crew. The water stirs near you
as one of the Razorfish turns to attack you.
321-322

ideas as to what things in the universe were important.
He believed that luck was the all-important force, and
that some people and creatures were born with it; he
did not believe that people were lucky or unlucky as
the result of random occurrences. Probabus liked lucky
people and disliked unlucky ones, considering as worth-
less anyone who did not possess plenty of good luck
... You are down on your luck. The lucky charm
detects your want of good luck and punishes you.
Deduct 2 points from your sKiLL and 4 points from
your STAMINA, If you are still alive, you throw the
lucky charm to the floor, leave the room and tum left
into the tunnel (turn to 32).

321
The noise of breaking glass echoes down the tunnel,
and you grip your sword in case the noise attracts the
attention of someone you do not want to meet. On
the floor you find a small brass egg. You put it in your
pocket, then walk back past the junction and march on
down the tunnel. Tum to 281.

422
The text on the page is too small to read. If you have
a magnifying glass, turn to 244. If you do not have a
magnifying glass, will you now:

Put the copper bracelet on your

wrist? Turn to 62
Hang the pendant round your neck? Turn to 105
Put the bracelet and pendant in your

backpack? Tum to 313

323-325

Take a look at the weapons, if you
have not already done so?

Leave the room and walk on up the
tunnel?

Turn to 206

Turn to 151

323

The message reads: Demon’s breath, slow death.
Unless you eat some Orc fleas, you will die by this
curse! Zagor’. A short blast of warm, stinking air
envelops you; this is demon’s breath you have in-
haled, and it will slowly poison you. From now on,
each time you tum to a new paragraph you must
reduce your STAMINA by 1 point. If you fail to eat
any Orc fleas before your STAMINA is reduced to zero,
you will die. You waste no time entering the tunnel
(turn to 372).

324

You try to dive to one side, out of the way of the
falling cage, but your reactions are too slow. The cage
crushes down on the floor with a loud clang, trapping
you inside. You try to lift the cage, but it is firmly
locked in place. It won't be long before you are
discovered by an Orc guard and are taken in chains to
Zagor’s surgeons. Your adventure is over.

325
Sleek and protected by thick, silver scales, Razorfish
attack viciously by ripping at thier victims’ flesh with
their rows of razor-sharp teeth. The river is soon red
with the blood of the crew. The water stirs near you
as one of the Razorfish turns to attack you.
326

RAZORFISH SKILL 7 STAMINA &

If you win, tum to 89.

326

You are instructed that on the count of three you
must start eating, the winner being the contestant to
eat the greatest number of eyeballs in five minutes.
You pick one up, ready to begin, but the cold and
slimy texture of a raw eyeball makes you feel quite
sick. Then you hear the countdown: ‘One, two, three
— go!’ You shut your eyes and pop the eyeball in your
mouth.

To decide who eats the most eyeballs, roll one die five
times for each of the contestants including yourself,
adding up the totals for each

CONTESTANT | 1| 2) 3] 4] 5 | TOTAL
YOU

BARBARIAN
CAVEMAN
TROGLODYTE |

If there is a tie for the highest score, roll the die again
between the joint winners until a clear winner is
found. If you win the competition, turn to 179. If the
Barbarian either wins the competition or eats more
eyeballs than you, turn to 128. If you don’t win the

327-329

competition but manage to eat more eyeballs than the
Barbarian, turn to 351.

327

The Goblin is not won over by your ruse and hurls a
chair at your cell door. You withdraw your arm and
step back. A bamboo pipe suddenly appears through
the bars and you feel an immediate sharp pain in your
neck: you have been hit by a poisoned dart from the
Goblin’s blowpipe. The poison works instantly. Your
adventure is over.

328
You tub the old ring, hoping its magic is still there.
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, tum to 346. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 1g2.

529
You leave the path and wander into the undergrowth;
eventually you come across the ruin of a wooden hut
which looks as if it was burnt down years ago. Ivy
covers what's left of the walls and floor, and the
people who once lived here have long since moved
on. You decide to poke around the floor of the hut
with your sword. After several stabs into the ivy, you
hear a dull ‘clunk’ as your sword makes contact with
something metallic. You cut away the tvy and uncover
an iron ring which is attached to a trapdoor. Lifting it
up makes a loud creaking noise, and as you peer into
the gloom you hear insects and small creatures flutter-
ing and scurrying below. On the top step of the stairs
leading down you see a candle and a flint. You soon
350-332

have the candle lit and climb down into the darkness.
You find yourself standing in a small cellar with just
enough headroom to stand up in. Cobwebs are every-
where. There are two clay pots on a shelf and a wooden
box lies under a rickety old table. Despite the profusion
of insect life and small rodents, it seems to be a safe
enough place in which to spend the night. Will you:

Go to sleep? Turn to 95
Examine the clay pots? Turn to 386
Examine the wooden box? Turn to 33
Find somewhere else to sleep? Turn to 180

30
Stepping as lightly as possible, you cross the room
and reach the far door (turn to 158).

331
The fearsome beast finally slumps to the floor You are

exhausted and covered in sweat after such a gruelling
battle. You quickly take the keyring from the guard's
belt; there are three keys on it. You have to decide
now which key to try in the door. Will you:

Try the iron key? Turn to 259
Try the bronze key? Tum to 148
Try the brass key? Turn to 75

332
The stone to which the chain is attached starts to

move. You pull even harder and the stone comes
flying out of the wall, almost knocking you off your

433-334

feet. You inspect the hole and realize that you have
opened up a secret compartment. You try to fit your
head through the hole in the wall to see inside the
compartment, but your head is too big. Will you:

Put your arm into the compartment? Turn to 92
Rummage around in the dirt, if you

have not done so already? Tum to 242
Leave the room and walk on to the
second door? Turn to 56

333
As soon as you pick up one of the gold dragons, the
Skeletons jolt forward in their chairs, stand up and
draw their swords. If you wish to run out of the room
with the dragon in your hand, turn to 200. If you
would rather stand and fight, turn to 369.

334

With trembling hands you take the whistle out of your
backpack and blow a few high-pitched notes on it,
hoping that some unknown magic will halt the Gorgon.
But the whistle is not magical and the Gorgon slithers
ever closer towards you. You are suddenly transfixed
by fear and stare blankly at the monster towering
above you. Turn to 265.

335

335
The four spheres fly past you, lodging in the wall

behind you. As each sphere hits the wall, one of the
Death Lords vaporizes, leaving only his robes behind
in a crumpled heap on the floor.

Seeing the letter ‘Z’ above the archway at the top of
the steps spurs you into action, You bound up the
steps and run through the archway; you now find
yourself in a palatial hall: a row of columns runs its
length and at the end there are more steps, leading up
to a plinth. Seated calmly there on an omate throne is
the most evil-looking man you have ever seen in your
life. The skin on his face is drawn taut across his skull
and is held by stitches down both sides of his face. His
robes are a combination of purple, black and white and
a large red ‘Z’ is emblazoned across his chest. You are
face to face with Zagor himself!

‘Welcome, fool,’ he says slowly and menacingly. 1
have been expecting you, although | didn’t think you
would get this far. But now your reward is a slow and
painful death! It was considerate of you to bring me
the last limb I need to rebuild my body. Your left arm
looks strong — I'll take itt’

He thrusts his own left arm out of his robes, and you
see that it is a skeletal stump. His right arm is also
visible and you can see stitches all round his wrist
where an outsize hand has been sewn on to a strong
arm, This giant hand holds a crystal which sparkles in
the yellow light from the domes. Without warming he
tosses the crystal into the air and utters some unintelli-
336-337

gible words, before catching it again. The air in the
hall starts to stir and soon builds to a howling gale.
Zagor calmly remains seated on his throne as a whirl-
wind howls down the hal) towards you. Its vaguely
human shape means that it can be only one thing: an
Air Elemental. But the Elementals that Zagor can
summon are the Demon Elementals from the Plane of
Chaos. No weapons can affect them. They can be
destroyed only by Supreme Elementals from the Plane
of Light. Their material forms are golden dragons’
teeth. If you have any golden dragons’ teeth, turn to
113. If you do not have any, tum to 177.

336
Without thinking, you move your hand towards your

sword hilt. The snake senses danger and its venomous
fangs strike at your hand. The bite is painful — but not
as harmful as the poison that now runs through your
veins. Deduct 4 points from your sTAMINA. You brush
the snake off your body and roll away from it as
quickly as possible. You jump up to defend yourself,
but the snake has slithered away into the undergrowth.
Summoning all your reserves of strength, you set off
immediately for Kaad. Turn to 379.

337
The tunnel ends at the solid wall — which, however,
slides to one side as you approach it! You enter a large
room, and the wall slides back into place behind you
The room is lit by four candles standing at the four
comers of a wooden table in the middle of the room
A polished breastplate lies on the table. If you wish to

338-340

put the breastplate on, tum to 317. If you would
rather open the door in the opposite wall, turn to 170.

338
The jewel in the headband is filled with dark sorcery.
In seconds your memory has vanished, never to return.
You wonder why you are standing in the chamber ...
but you have no idea. Your adventure is over.

You jump back just in time as the heavy net crashes
down on top of the skeleton. Looking up, you see a
hole in the ceiling. A green, warty face with pointed
nose, ears and chin is staring down at you It’s a Goblin
and it is angry that it has failed to capture you. The
Goblin shakes its fist at you and spits, then disappears.
If you want to climb up the rope that is hanging down
from the ceiling and attached to the net, and chase after
the Goblin, turn to 51. If you would rather take the
skeleton’s gold ring, turn to 215, If you want to leave
the room and press on up the tunnel, turn to 23.

340
You turn your shield in the direction of the Goblins at
the very moment when they release their arrows and
you hear the missiles thud into the shield. The Goblins
run forward to attack you with their clubs, urged on
by the Death Lords.

SKILL STAMINA
First GOBLIN 5 4
Second GOBLIN 5 5
541-344

Fight the Goblins one ata time. If you do not havea sword
at the moment, you must temporarily reduce your SKILL
by 2 points during this combat. If you win, turn to 163.

341
You mun after Moose, keeping your head down to
avoid the many outstretched branches. You catch sight
of something sparkling in the bushes. If you want to
stop briefly to find out what it is, turn to 82. If you do
not wish to stop, tum to 267.

342
One of the diamonds in your hand has been coated
with a magic potion which reacts when touched by
human flesh. If you are wearing leather gloves, turn to
12. If you are not wearing leather gloves, turn to 42.

343
The Goblin is very stupid and unbolts the cell door. As

soon as the handle turns, you charge it, knocking the
Goblin over. Springing quickly to its feet, the Goblin
draws its sword.

GOBLIN SKILL 5 STAMINA 5

If you do not have a sword, you must fight the Goblin
with your skILt reduced by 2 points. If you win, turn
to 190.

344
Your knowledge of magic is insufficient to control the

power of the Supreme Elementals of Light. Your magic

345-346

word is wrong! You are suddenly sucked up into the
air and thrown against one of the columns. Your head
slams against the marble and you Jose consciousness.
Turn to 208.

345
You try the door but find it locked; the store is closed.
Thinking that you may come back later, you set off to
find Zoot Zimmer. Turn to 309.

346
The old ring has just enough magic left in it to make
you invisible, but only for a minute or two, While the
Mummies are walking around as though exercising
their stiff limbs, you escape through the door at the
end of the hallway, just as the magic is wearing off
(turn to 102).

ns a;
—

-

4
.
.
7.

347-348

347

The door is chained and padlocked; but, using a spear
taken from one of the statues, you soon force the lock
open. The door looks as if it has been closed for years
and you have to tug hard on the handle. Slowly you
manage to drag the door open while its rusty hinges
creak noisily; beyond, you see a torchlit tunnel. About
ten metres ahead there is a door with a barred window
in it. You tiptoe quietly along the tunnel and peep
through the window.

Sitting at a rough wooden table, an Orc is being
served what looks like rat stew by a grisly-looking
hunchbacked Dwarf. An ugly purple scar runs down
the Dwarf’s face from his left eyebrow to his chin.
The Orc is as ugly and brutal-looking as they come.
You keep watching as the Orc pulls a rat carcass out
of the stew with his fingers and eats it, head and all.
Under the table you spot a wooden crate. If you wish
to open the door and attack the Ore, turn to 227. If
you would rather walk on down the tunnel, turn to 13.

348
As soon as your sword hits the floor, the jagged

weapons encircling you also drop to the floor. You
realize it is too risky to pick up your sword again and
are forced to leave the room without it. You must
reduce your SKILL by 2 points until you find another
sword, Lose i point from your Luck. Feeling defence-
less, you make your way to the third door (tum to

273).

349-352

349
You walk along the tunnel, following it round a long

left-hand bend until you come to a door in the right-
hand wall. Listening intently, you hear what sounds
like somebody chopping wood. If you want to open
the door, turn to 194. If you would rather walk on,
turn to 1§1.

350
Still reeling from the unexpected attack, you step
warily off the path in search of some cover under
which to sleep. You stumble across a fallen tree and
decide to sleep beneath its branches. The night passes
without incident and, not long after first light, you
return to the path and head south (turn to 238).

35%
While the trophy is being handed to the winner, you
turn to the Barbarian and ask him to pay up on his bet.

What bet?’ The Barbarian asks, an ugly smile on his
face. Will you simply avoid confrontation and leave
the room (turn to 6) or challenge the Barbarian to a
fight (turn to 99)?

352
You feel like a trapped animal, with the blood pumping
through your veins, until your hand encounters the
reassuring cold steel of your sword. At any moment
you expect the trapdoor to be thrown open. You can
hear muffled voices, but they do not sound human
The sound of a horn suddenly blasts out and the

353-355

creatures above you run off. You wait five minutes,
before slowly raising the trapdoor. Peering out, you
cannot see a living soul. You climb out of the cellar,
make your way back to the path and head south (turn
to 238).

353
The Ogre finally gives up its chase and you are able
to relax once more and resume a walking pace. Glanc-
ing back occasionally to make sure you are not being
followed, you press on towards Firetop Mountain
(turn to 86).

354

The small stone island on which you are standing
starts to crumble away and grow smaller. You must act
quickly — you will have time to try only one item. If
you have any of the following objects, will you:

Drop an onyx egg down the chasm? Turn to 153
Drop a glass marble down the

chasm? Turn to 394
Tap the floor with a skull staff? Turn to 65

If you do not have any of the articles named above,
you will have to jump across the chasm (turn to 46)

355
Scratched on the hilt of the sword is the name ‘Dark-
blade Skullbiter’. The name sends a shiver down your
spine when you remember that it belonged to one of
the fiercest Chaos Champions who ever lived. You

356-357

wonder why Darkblade’s legendary sword is hanging
on a Goblin’s wall deep inside Firetop Mountain — but,
for the time being, your question must remain unan-
swered. With the Chaos Champion’s sword in hand,
you squeeze yourself along the narrow tunnel. Turn to
68.

356
You reason that the room is the living quarters of the

Chaos Warrior. There is a straw-covered bed in one
corner, a table witha half-eaten bowl of gruel in
another corner, and a box of assorted objects on a wail
shelf. Numerous weapons are standing in a rack,
propped against one of the walls. Will you:

Take a look at the box?

Take a look at the weapons?

Leave the room and walk on up the
tunnel? Turn to 1§1

Turn to 24
Turn to 206

357
Clouds slowly fill the sky, covering the weak glow

from the moon so completely that soon you cannot see
your hand in front of you. You have no option but to
wrap your blanket round you, hope for the best, and
sleep out on the open plain. Turn to 359.

358-359

358
The arrows fly past your head and thump into the
door behind you. You run foward to attack the Goblin
archers before they have time to reload their bows.
The Death Lords scream at them to smash you to the
ground with their clubs,

SKILL STAMINA
First GOBLIN 5 4
Second GOBLIN 5 5

Fight the Goblins one at a time. If you do not have a
sword at the moment, you must temporarily reduce’
your SKILL by 2 points during this combat. If you win,
turn to 163.

359
Although you sleep uneasily and are awake just after

dawn, the night passes without incident. You look
eastwards at the imposing sight of Firetop Mountain
in the shadow of the rising sun and estimate that you
should reach it by midday. Turn to 22x

360-362

360

You enter a dark room which has the smell of death
about it. A solitary candle is burning on top of a skull,
which stands on a small table against the far wall.
There is a small box under the table and next to the
table is an open coffin. In the murky shadows in the
far corner of the room you make out the vague outline
of a dark-caped figure. The cape suddenly flickers,
displaying its scarlet lining. The figure slowly steps
forward and, as its face comes into the candlelight,
you see two long fangs protruding from its upper jaw.
It is a Vampire! If you have some garlic, turn to 181. If
you do not have any garlic, you may either fight the
Vampire (tum to 254) or close the door behind you
and walk further up the tunnel (turn to 172).

361

‘As you wish,’ says Zoot unconcernedly. You follow
him outside into a courtyard at the back of the house;
there he looks up into the sky and lets out a high-
pitched whistle. Moments later, you see a speck in the
sky which grows bigger as it glides down effortlessly
towards you. It is a huge, beautiful eagle, its feathers
magnificent shades of golden brown. With its wings
outstretched, it lands in the courtyard. Turn to 71.

362
You hear a metallic click, followed by a rumbling noise
coming from above. You look up — to see an iron cage
falling on top of you. Roll two dice. If the total is less
than or equal to your sKILL, turn to 270, If the total is
greater than your SKILL, turn to 324.

363-364

363
The key is too big for the keyhole. No matter how
hard you push and wiggle the key, it won’t fit in the
lock. You must think of another way to escape. Deduct
1 point from your Luck. If you want to use the bucket
in your escape, turn to 21. Otherwise, if you have a
Gold Piece with the letter ‘Z’ stamped on it, tum to

84.

364

The crossbow bolts fly over your head as you dive into
the river. You swim downstream under water until your
lungs feel about to burst. When you finally surface, you
find yourself in another large cavern; this one is filled
with giant crystals, all sparkling and glinting in the light
of torches. You swim over to the bank on your left and
wade out of the river. You stand facing two tunnels.
The word ‘PITS’ is chiselled into the stone above the
left-hand tunnel and the word ‘PUZZLES’ is chiselled
above the right-hand one. Will you:

Examine the giant crystals? Turn to 247
Enter the left-hand tunnel? Turn to 124
Enter the right-hand tunnel? Tum to 38

365-366

365
The Elemental crashes down on top of you, then picks
you up by your foot and dangles you upside down.
The pain in your foot is unbearable and you scream
out. For a few seconds you can hear Zagor’'s evil
laughter, before you are hurled against a wall and
knocked unconscious. Turn to 208.

366
You wake up the next morning, feeling as if you
have slept for a hundred years. Regain 2 STAMINA
points. Sitting up, you are startled to see an ugly,
warty-skinned creature in ramshackle armour lying
near you; it too is stirring back to life. This is a
Hobgoblin and it was going to rob you while you
slept, but it became a victim of the Sleeping Grass as
well. It sits up and grunts, then suddenly remembers
that it was on the point of attacking you. It grabs its
spiked club and turns to face you. You must fight the

Hobgoblin.
HOBGOBLIN SKILL 6 STAMINA 7

If you win, turn to 229.

367-369

367
As you run away, the leading Lizard Man hurls his
spear after you. Roll one die. If the number rolled is
1-3, turn to 234, If the number is 4-6, tum to 111.

368
You raise the iron ring on the trapdoor and lift it up.
At once you can hear high-pitched squealing, and a
terrible smell wafts up from below. Suddenly a huge
rat leaps into the room and you let the trapdoor fall
Roll one die to determine how many Giant Sewer Rats
clamber up into the room before the trapdoor slams
down. Fight them one at a time. Each Sewer Rat has a
SKILL of 5 and a STAMINA OF 3. If you win, turn to ro8.

369
In a series of jerky movements the Skeleton Warriors
lurch forward together to attack.

SKILL STAMINA
Firsts SKELETON WARRIOR 8 6
Second SKELETON WARRIOR s7 6

Each Skeleton Warrior will make a separate attack on
you every Attack Round, but you must choose which
of the two you will fight. Attack your chosen opponent
in the normal way. Roll again against your second
opponent. This time, a successful roll means you have
defended yourself against its blow, but you do not
hurt it, If your Attack Strength is lower, your opponent
wounds you as normal. If you win, turn to 58.

37°

°

Your hand touches your sword but succeeds only in
knocking it off the step on which it is lying. It clatters
to the ground and you snatch it up quickly. Your
pulse races as you stand in the darkness, feeling like a
trapped animal. Suddenly the trapdoor above you is
thrown open and light pours into the cellar, almost
blinding you. You can make out the heads of two
creatures above you, partially blocking out the sun.
They both start shouting loudly while jabbing their
spears down the stairway, but you cannot understand
a word they are saying. They are Goblins and you will
have to fight them. They descend the stairs into the
cellar one at a time, so you are able to fight them sepa-
rately.

SKILL STAMINA
First GOBLIN 5 5
Second GOBLIN 5 4

If you win, turn to 129.

371-372

371

The dagger finds its mark, hitting the Goblin squarely
in the chest, and it slumps forward on its face. After
retrieving your dagger, you walk down the corridor
and enter what appears to be a meeting room. In the
centre of the room is a long table surrounded by eight
chairs; the walls are lined with shelves full of books,
manuscripts, scrolls and maps. There are several piles
of gold coins on the table and odd coins lie scattered
about the room, A door in the far wall suddenly opens
and an old man enters; he is wearing a long purple
gown with a raised collar and a purple headband.
‘Intruder,’ he says grimly, ‘you have no right to be
here. But if you are smart enough, you may be of use
to me. Answer my question and live — fail, and you
die. Tell me, how many gold coins are there in this
room?’

Look at the illustration and count them up. If you
know how many there are, turn to the paragraph with
that number. If you get the answer wrong, remember
to turn to 232.

572
The tunnel leads into a candlelit room; it is littered
with many skulls, human and animal alike. Two candles,
both of which are burning in their brass holders, are
mounted on wooden pedestals on either side of the
tunnel’s entrance. In the opposite wall the tunnel
continues into the distance, lit by a long line of
torches. You step into the room and, as you do so, the
skulls start to shuffle towards you, making the floor by

=
2.

i
~~ =
=
——
ll ra
—_+—
4

373-375

the tunnels entrance look like a cobbled path. If you
try to leap over the skulls, tum to 47. If you would
rather brave walking through them, turn to 173.

373
The tunnel eventually ends at a T-junction. If you

wish to go to the left, turn to 4. If you wish to go to
the right, turn to 48.

374
A dagger flies out of the bushes, straight at you. If

you are holding a shield, tum to 49, If you do not
have a shield, turn to 196.

375

You soon prise the lid off the crate and find that it is
filled with cabbage leaves, most of which are rotten;
the smell rising up from the crate is horrible. You
rummage distastefully through the leaves and find a
small silver bell: you put it in your backpack and
consider what to do next. If you want to leave the
toom and turn right into the tunnel, turn to 13. If you
want to enter the back room and have not done so
already, turn to 132.

376-377

376

After picking up and stuffing into your pockets as
many Gold Pieces as you can carry, you take a look at
the various books, charts and scrolls. Most of them are
on the subject of the human and non-human brain.
The charts are mainly of Allansia, in particular the
areas surrounding Firetop Mountain. The scrolls are
written mostly in symbols, but you do find one written
in your own language: it is headed The Elementals. You
read it and learn that, in order to create an Elemental
from a golden dragon’s tooth, the holder of the
dragon’s tooth must cast it on the floor and say the
word ‘Cachondo’. Repeating the word over and over
in your mind, you pass through the door from which
the Mindbender appeared. Turn to 249.

377
At first the jelly feels cold and slimy to the touch. But
suddenly your hand is gripped by pain as though the
flesh were melting. You pull out your arm and are

378-379

horrified to see that your hand is smoking and blisters
are forming. The acid jelly is deadly. Deduct 2 points
from your SKILL and 3 points from your STAMINA.
You bandage your hand as best as you can and, if you
possess Healing Balm, you can restore 1 SKILL point
and 2 STAMINA points. If you have not done so
already, you may now rummage around in the dirt
(turn to 242). Otherwise, you have no choice but to
leave the room and walk on to the second door. Turn
to 56.

378
The poison runs quickly through your veins, long before
your remedy can work, You lose consciousness and fall
backwards on to the floor. Your adventure is over.

379

Following the track west along the bank of the Red
River, you observe a lone figure in the distance walking
towards you. Wary of Goblins and other loathsome
creatures, you drop your hand to the hilt of your
sword. But the figure turns out to be just an old,
hunchbacked man, hobbling along slowly and leaning
heavily on his crooked stick, Staring at the ground, he
takes no notice of you until, drawing level with you,
he suddenly turns his head towards you and says with
surprising menace, ‘Give me a Gold Piece’ If you have
a Gold Piece, and want to give it to the old man, turn
to 123. If you do not have a Gold Piece or do not
wish to give the old man one, turn to 245.

380-381

380
‘Everybody bets on the eyeball game,’ the Barbarian
says menacingly. ‘Maybe you ought not to be here.
Guards! Arrest this impostor!’

You push back your chair, get up and race out of the
room, turning right into the tunnel. The Lizard Men
chase after you, their spears raised. The leading one
hurls his spear after you as you run away. Roll one
die, If the number rolled is 1-3, turn to 234. If the
number is 4—6, turn to 111.

381

You run over to the door, only to find that somehow
it is securely locked. Looking behind you, you see
now that the creature is more than just a giant snake.
Standing upright on its huge, coiled tail, you see the
large, scaly torso of a fearsome humanoid female,
brandishing a silver sword. In place of hair, small
snakes are writhing on top of her head. Her burning
red eyes with their deadly stare slowly scan the room
for the intruder. You are trapped in the Gorgon’s lair.
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 41. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 265.

382-386

382

Removing your whip from your belt, you lash out at
the Mindbender. Your aim is perfect and the thin
leather cord coils round his neck. With a quick jerk,
you pull him to the ground. Then you jam a wooden
ball in his mouth, cover his head with a cloth bag and
bind his arms with the whip to stop him from trying
any sorcery. If you wish to search the room, turn to
376. If you would rather walk through the door from
which the Mindbender appeared, turn to 249.

383
If you are carrying some rope, turn to 303. If you do
not have any rope, turn to 104.

3

Nervously you slip the ring over your forefinger.
Nothing happens — except that a warm glow spreads
slowly through your whole body. The strange feeling
subsides, and now it is time to decide your next
action, If you want to climb up the rope to pursue the
Goblin, turn to 51. If you would rather leave the room
and go further up the tunnel, turn to 23.

385
The guard snarls disdainfully and leaps to attack you,
swinging its great spiked club. Tum to 198.

386
The first pot is empty, but the second contains a large
iron key with the number ‘142’ stamped on its barrel.

387

You decide to keep the key, and you make a mental
note of the number, If you have not done so already,
you may New examine the wooden box (tum to 33) or
g° to sleep (turn to 9s). If you would rather find
somewhere else to sleep, turn to 180.

387

The tunnel ends at a stone wall, You notice some
footprints an the floor which all point towards the end
wail. You deduce that you are in a secret passageway
and that there must be a secret door in the wall. You
run your fingers slowly over the wall searching for a
tell-tale hairline crack or a hidden latch. Then you
discover loose stone, about half-way down the wall,
Carefully pulling the stone out of the wall you see an
iron handle. You twist it to one side and hear a click
Your feeling of triumph is shortlived as a poisoned
dart flies from above the handle and pierces your
throat. The poison is deadly and acts quickly. Your
adventure is over.

388-390

388
As you tun past the Warrior, he lunges at you and
makes a grab for your neck. Roll two dice. If the total
is less than or equal to your sKILL, turn to 160. If the
total is greater than your SKILL, turn to 257.

389
The room is quite small and its floor is covered in
bones, debris and dirt. In the far corner you see a chain
which is bolted to the wall. Will you:

Rummage around in the dirt? Turn to 242
Pull on the chain? Tum to 332
Walk on to the second door? Tum to 56

39°
You watch as the Vampire’s body crumbles to dust; in
seconds only his cape remains. Suddenly a bat emerges
from the cape and flies out of the room. You walk
over to the box and find a quill and an ink bottle full
of blood inside. You decide to abandon your find and

391-393

leave the room, turning left into the tunnel (turn to
172).

391
The hunchback drops his stick, staring almost disbeliev-
ingly at the wound on his arm. Then he looks up at
you and says, ‘Go on then, finish me off’ You sheathe
your sword, attempting to convince the old man that
you are Zagor’s enemy, not his friend. Tum to 301.

392

The glass ball shatters on the stone floor and you are
immediately engulfed in the white smoke. Hacking
and coughing, you stagger out of the room, pulling
the door shut behind you. Your head spins, and you
feel completely disorientated and quite sick. If you
have one of Dungheap Dan’s mushrooms, turn to 139.
If you do not have a mushroom, tum to 246.

393

Hampered by having to cover your eyes, you must
temporarily reduce your skit by 2 while fighting the
Gorgon. As you stand your ground before the advanc-
ing monstrosity, her frenzied snakes lash out and try
to bite you. Roll one die to find out how many snakes
bite the hand covering your eyes, then reduce your
STAMINA by this number. If you are stil! alive and the
number you rolled is 1-3, turn to 25. If the number is
4—6, turn to 145.
394-395

394
You rummage through your backpack and find the
glass marble; then you throw it down the yawning
chasm without delay. You hear it land, some distance
below, but without any magical effect resulting. The
island has all but disappeared and you are forced to
jump (tum to 46).

395

The Ogre is a ferocious beast and it lets out a blood-
curdling howl as it swings its club at you.

OGRE SKILL 8 STAMINA 10

If you win, turn to 248.

396-397

396

Your blade slices into the huge worm with ease,
sending thick yellow slime everywhere. Test your Luck.
If you are Lucky, turn to 67. lf you are Unlucky, tum
to 251.

397
You throw the pot on the floor and watch it shatter. A

small ball of straw tied with string lies among the
broken pieces. You cut the string and open up the
straw ball. Hidden in the middle of the straw ball you
find a silver ring with the number ‘69 stamped on it. If
you want to put the ring on one of your fingers, turn
to 277. If you would rather leave it on the floor you
may now smash the red pot, if you have not done so
already (turn to 41); otherwise you will have to walk
across to the new door in the room of statues (turn to

347).

398-399

AE =

f

‘

398
The crew quickly bring down the sails and the boat
“a glides to a halt alongside the uptumed rowing boat.
Ndroo throws a rope to the Orc, but the Orc turns
and dives into the river

i’
- a.

vf

eS
a)
>

‘Ambush’ cries Fyll. Looking behind you, you see two
Orc war canoes, that had been hidden beneath the
branches of trees along the river, coming towards you,
A hail of arrows is loosed at your boat. Roll one die and
reduce your crew (ten men, including yourself} by this
number, Stooy clutches at an arrow that has gone
right through his neck, then gurgles a dying breath
and slumps forward on to the deck, his legs twitching
in spasms. Ignoring him, the remainder of the crew
scrambles to hoist the sails as the war canoes draw
closer. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 77, If
you are Unlucky, turn to 175.

pt

You climb into the boat and the old man rows you
slowly across the river. As soon as you get out of the
boat on the other side, however, the old man raises his
head and howls like an animal and from out of the
shadows step four Lizard Men, each armed with a
loaded crossbow. Swiftly they take aim and fire as you
dive into the murky water. Roll one die. If the number
rolled is 1-4, turn to 3x0. If the number is 5 or 6, tum
to 464.

400

400

The Warlock of Firetop Mountain is defeated. Still
panting heavily from exhaustion following the battle,
you stand over the body of Zagor. Many of his
stitches have burst open grotesquely. But at least
Allansia is saved! You walk up the steps to Zagor’s
throne, which is made of solid gold, set with hundreds
of jewels. Your fortune is there for the taking. You fill
your backpack with treasure and eventually find your
way out of the mountain labyrinth. |

In just over a day you are back in Anvil, recounting
your quest to the cheering villagers. ‘Zagor is dead!
Long live Allansia!’ they all chant. Filled with excite-
ment, they ask you to lead them back to Firetop
Mountain so they can witness Zagor’s demise for
themselves and help themselves to some of his treas-
ure. You finally agree but put a limit of ten on the
party to accompany you. The twisting labyrinth of
passages appears deserted; Zagor’s guards and servants
have all fled. When you finally reach Zagor’s hall, you
find his body still lying, face down, where it had
fallen, The villagers crowd round it laughing, comment-
ing and arguing. You walk over and roll the body
over with your foot. A sudden gasp comes from the
villagers; there is a big smile on Zagor’s face and his
eyes are wide open, although he is undoubtedly dead.
But the thing that worries you most is that his skeletal
left arm is missing, and that was the only bit of Zagor
that was truly his own. Could that bony stump grow
into another incarnation of Zagor? Surely not ..

Also in Puffin

SHADOWMASTER

lan Livingstone and Marc Gascoigne

Chaos stalks the wild lands of northern Allansia. Cruel bandits raid
the villages, ransacking and looting as they go. Now, though, the
attackers are in search of a treasure far more valuable than gold
Driven by their inhuman leader, they are in pursuit of the key that
will unlock the very mysteries of life and death itself

The sorcerer Yaztromo, for sc long the self-appointed guardian of
the lands around Darkwood Forest, cannot stand idly by while his
countrymen are put to the sword. With Chadda Darkmane close at
hand, Yaztromo embarks on a quest to discover the source of the
raids and the sinister reason behind them

What they discover is that when Chaos rules, nothing can ever be
as it seems. Fair hides foul, insanity hides inner order, and darkness
lurks deep within the light. Can Yaztromo and Darkmane defeat
these illusions to discover the real master of the shadows? Only
Shadowmaster, the third Fighting Fantasy novel, can tell you!
THE TROLLTOOTH WARS
Steve Jackson

It started with an ambush. When Balthus Dire’s bloodlusting Hill
Goblins mount their raid on the Strongarm caravan, little do they
realize what dramatic consequences their actions will have. For that
cafavan carries Cunnelwort, a mystical herb from Eastern Allansia,
destined for none other than the evil sorceror, Zharradan Marr! War
— between two forces well-matched for evil — is soon to ensue ...
Will Balthus Dire’s chaotics or Zharradan Marr's undead prove vic-
torious? The answer is here, in the first Fighting Fantasy novel.

DEMONSTEALER
Matc Gascoigne

It started with a burglary. Borne aloft on the back of an immense
bat, a sinister thief breaks into the tower of the sorcerer Yaztromo
Guided by long-dead voices, he manages to make off with an
ancient scroll whose secrets could spell doom and destruction for all
Allansia!

Chadda Darkmane is soon on the trail of the thief. But as the quest
grows ever longer, his nagging doubts about the power of sorcery
turn into nightmares. The trail leads far beyond northern Allansia, to
the Pirate Coast and the twisting alleyways of Rimon, where
Darkmane’s nightmares become flesh! For the thief has used the
ancient scroll to summon others to help him in his sorcerous task,
Demons who are not bound by the constraints of earthly forms —
who feast on the human spirit

A few brave companions accompany Darkmane, but will they be
enough — and in time — to stop the thief from unlocking the final
secret of Yaztromo’s scroll? Demonstealer, the second Fighting
Fantasy novel in a series that began with The Trolliooth Wars, holds
all the answers

OUT OF THE PIT

Fighting Fantasy Monsters
Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone

From the darkest comers, from the deepest pools and from the
dungeons thought only to exist in nightmares come the Fighting
Fantasy monsters — the downfall of many a brave warrior Two
hundred and fifty of these loathsome creatures from the wild and
dangerous worlds of Fighting Fantasy are collected here — some are
old adversaries, many you have yet to meet — each of them de-
scribed in minute detail. An indispensable guide for Fighting
Fantasy adventurers!

TITAN
The Fighting Fantasy World

Steve Jackson and Jan Livingstone
Edited by Marc Gascoigne

You met the monsters in Out of the Pit — now meet the rest of the
Fighting Fantasy world! No adventurer should be without this es-
sential guide It contains everything you need to know, covering
the turbulent history of the world, from its creation and early civiliz-
ations — through the devastating War of the Wizards — to the
present-day wilderness and anarchy where the delicate balance be-
tween Good and Chaos could at any moment be overtumed
347-348

347
The door is chained and padlocked; but, using a spear

taken from one of the statues, you soon force the lock
open. The door looks as if it has been closed for years
and you have to tug hard on the handle. Slowly you
manage to drag the door open while its rusty hinges
creak noisily; beyond, you see a torchlit tunnel. About
ten metres ahead there is a door with a barred window
in it. You tiptoe quietly along the tunnel and peep
through the window.

Sitting at a rough wooden table, an Orc is being
served what looks like rat stew by a grisly-looking
hunchbacked Dwarf. An ugly purple scar runs down
the Dwarf’s face from his left eyebrow to his chin
The Orc is as ugly and brutal-looking as they come.
You keep watching as the Orc pulls a rat carcass out
of the stew with his fingers and eats it, head and all.
Under the table you spot a wooden crate. If you wish
to open the door and attack the Orc, tur to 227. If
you would rather walk on down the tunnel, turn to 13.

348
As soon as your sword hits the floor, the jagged
weapons encircling you also drop to the floor. You
realize it is too risky to pick up your sword again and
are forced to Jeave the room without it. You must
reduce your skit by 2 points until you find another
sword, Lose 1 point from your Luck. Feeling defence-
less, you make your way to the third door (turn to

273).

