Puffin Books

ISLAND OF THE UNDEAD

The storm-wracked Strait of Knives in south-east Allansia has
long been under the protection of the mysterious sorcerers of
Solani Island. For many years their magic has protected the local
people from the ravages of the seas, but now, it seems, their
power has been usurped, An evil force holds sway across the
land, an evil that seems to have power over life and death itselft

A heroic adventurer is urgently needed to journey to Solani
Island and discover what has happened to the wizards. Dare
YOU be that adventurer? Who knows what terrible fate awaits
you on the island where death holds dominion . there is only
one way to find out!

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you need fo embark on
this awesome adventure, which comes complete with its own
elaborate combat system and a score sheet to record your
progress.

Many dangers lie ahead, and your success is anything but
certain. Powerful sorcerous enemies are ranged against you, and
it’s up to YOU to decide which route to follaw, which dangers
to risk and which foes to fight. The mystery of Solani Island
must be solved!
S

Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks

1 THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP
MOUNTAIN
2 THE CITADEL OF CHAOS
3 THE FOREST OF DOOM
4 STARSHIP TRAVELLER
5. CITY OF THIEVES
6. DEATHTRAP DUNGEON
¢ ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING
8 SCORPION SWAMP
9. CAVERNS OF THE SNOW
WITCH
10. HOUSE OF HELL
11. TALISMAN OF DEATH
12 SPACE ASSASSIN
13, FREEWAY FIGHTER
14. TEMPLE OF TERROR
15 THE RINGS OF KETHER
16 SEAS OF BLOOD
17 APPOINTMENT WITH FEAR
18 REBEL PLANET
19, DEMONS OF THE DEEP
20. SWORD OF THE SAMURAI
21 TRIAL OF CHAMPIONS
22, ROBOT COMMANDO
23. MASKS OF MAYHEM
24. CREATURE OF HAVOC
25 BENEATH NIGHTMARE
CASTLE

26 CRYPT OF THE SORCERER

27. STAR STRIDER

28 PHANTOMS OF FEAR

29 MIDNIGHT ROGUE

30, CHASMS OF MALICE

312 BATTLEBLADE WARRIOR

32. SLAVES OF THE ABYSS

33. SKY LORD

34 STEALER OF SOULS

35. DAGGERS OF DARKNESS

36. ARMIES OF DEATH

37. PORTAL OF EVIL

38 VAULT OF THE VAMPIRES

39 FANGS OF FURY

40. DEAD OF NIGHT

41. MASTER OF CHAOS

42 BLACK VEIN PROPHECY

43. THE KEEP OF THE LICH-LORD

44 LEGEND OF THE SHADOW
WARRIORS

45 SPECTRAL STALKERS

46. TOWER OF DESTRUCTION

47. THE CRIMSON TIDE

438, MOONRUNNER

49 SIEGE OF SARDATH

50 RETURN TO FIRETOP
MOUNTAIN

Steve Jackson's SORCERY!

1 THESHAMUTANTI HILLS
2 KHARE-CITYPORT OF TRAPS

3. THE SEVEN SERPENTS
4 THE CROWN OF KINGS

FIGHTING FANTASY — The Introductory Role-playing Game
THE RIDDLING REAVER ~ Four Thrilling Adventures

The Advanced Fighting Fantasy System
DUNGEONEER — An Introduction to Advanced Fighting Fantasy
BLACKSAND! — More Advanced Fighting Fantasy
OUT OF THE PIT ~ Fighting Fantasy Monsters
TITAN — The Fighting Fantasy World

The Fighting Fantasy Novels
THE TROLLTOOTH WARS — Chaos Invades Allansia
DEMONSTEALER — Chadda Darkmane Returns
SHADOWMASTER — Chadda Darkmane and Death

Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone
presents

by Keith Martin
Illustrated by Russ Nicholson

L

PUFFIN BOOKS
PUFFIN BOOKS

Published by the Penguin Group
Penguin Books Ltd, 27 Wrights Lane, London wé 572, England
Penguin Books USA Inc, 375 Hudson Street, New York, New York toot4, USA
Penguin Books Australia Ltd, Ringwood, Victona, Australia
Penguin Books Canada J.td, 19 Aloom Avenue, Toronto, Ontario, Canada mqv 302
Penguin Books {NZ) Ltd, 182—190 Warrau Road Auckland to, New Zealand

Penguin Books Ltd, Registered Offees: Hannondswerth, Middlesex, England

First published 2992
3579103 64%

Concept copyright ©) Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone
Text copynght © Keith Martin, 1992
Sustrations copyright © Russ Nicholson, 1992
All rights reserved

The moral nght of the author has been asserled

Prinled in England by Clays Ltd, St Ives plc
Filmset in Monophoto Palatino

Except in the Umted States of Amenica, this book 1s sald subject
to the conditian that it shall net, by way of trade or otherwise, be lent,
te-sald, hired out, or otherwise circulated without the publisher s
prior consent in any form of binding or cover other than that in
which it is published and without a similar condition inclucing ths
condition being imposed on the subsequent purchaser

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION
7

ADVENTURE SHEET
20

BACKGROUND
22,

ISLAND OF THE UNDEAD
27
INTRODUCTION

Before embarking on this adventure, you must first
determine your strengths and weaknesses. You use
dice to determine your initial skILL, STAMINA and
LUCK scores. On pages 20-21 there is an Adventure
Sheet on which you may keep the details of your
adventure, There you will find boxes to record your
SKILL, STAMINA and LUCK scores.

You are advised either to record your scores on the
Adventure Sheet in pencil or to make photocopies of
the page for use in your future attempts to complete
this adventure.

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Role one die. Add 6 to this number and enter the total
thus obtained in the sxitt box on the Adventure Sheet
(so your SKILL will be between 7 and 12)

Roll two dice. Add 12 to the number rolled and enter
this total in the sTAMINA box on the Adventure Sheet
(so your STAMINA will be between 14 and 24).

Roll one die, Add 6 to this number and enter the total
in the tuck box on the Adventure Sheet (so your LUCK
will be between 7 and 12)

For reasons that will be explained below, skILL,
STAMINA and Luck scores change constantly during
your adventure. You must keep an accurate record
both of these scores and of the changes to them: for
this reason you are advised either to write small in the
boxes of to keep an eraser handy. Never rub out your
Initial scores, however. Although you may be awarded
additional sKILL, STAMINA or LUCK points, these bo-
nuses cannot raise any score above its Initial figure
except very rarely, and you will then be instructed to
that effect in a particular paragraph.

Your skILL score reflects your swordsmanship and
general fighting expertise; the higher the better. Your
STAMINA score reflects your general constitution, your
will to survive, your determination and your overall
fitness, and your ability to absorb blows in battle; the
higher your sTAMINA score, the longer you will be
able to survive. Your LucK score indicates how natu-
rally lucky a person you are. Luck and magic are facts
of life in the exciting fantasy world you are about to ex-
plore.

Magic

During your adventure you may find some magic
artefacts, although at first you will probably not realize
that they are magic nor even be sure what they do!
Such objects may give you the ability to cast a magic
spell or to create a magical effect; if you find such an
item, you will be instructed in its use in the paragraph
in which you first come across it. To begin with,
however, you are not a mage but a brave warrior, and

8

you must overcome your enemies by your wits and
courage and by the use of your sword!

Battles

You will often find yourself reading paragraphs in the
book which instruct you to fight a creature of some
sort. An option to flee may be given, but if not ~ or if
you choose to attack the creature anyway — you must
resolve the battle as described below.

First record your opponent's SKILL score and STAMINA
score in the first vacant Monster Encounter Box on
your Adventure Sheet. The scores for each creature are
given every time you have an encounter. The sequence
for combat is then:

1. Roll two dice for the opponent. Add its skILL
score. This total is the creature’s Attack Strength

2. Roll two dice for yourself. Add your own sKILL
score to the number rolled This total is your
Attack Strength.

3. If your Attack Strength is higher than that of your
opponent, you have wounded it: proceed to step 4.
If your opponent’s Attack Strength is higher than
yours, it has wounded you: proceed to step 5. If
both Attack Strengths are the same, you have
avoided each other's blows; start the next Attack
Round from step 1, above.

4. You have wounded your opponent, so subtract 2
points from its STAMINA score. (You may use your

9
Luck here to do additional damage — see below.)
Proceed to step 6

5. Your opponent has wounded you, so subtract 2
points from your own STAMINA score, (Again, you
may use your Luck here to reduce the amount of
damage your opponent does to you — see below.)
Proceed to step 6.

6. Make the appropriate deduction either to your
opponent's or to your own STAMINA score (and to
your LUCK score if you used Luck — see below.)

7, Begin the next Attack Round (repeat steps 1—®).
The sequence continues until the stamina of either
you or your opponent has been reduced to zero
(death).

Fighting More Than One Creature

If you come across more than one opponent in a
particular encounter, the instructions in the relevant
paragraph will tell you how to handle the battle.
Sometimes you will have to fight them all together;
sometimes you will be able to fight them one after the
other.

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either in
battles or when you are faced by situations in which
you could be either Lucky or Unlucky (details of these

are given in the relevant paragraphs), you may call on

Io

your Luck to make the outcome more favourable to
you. But beware! Using tucx is a risky business, and if
you are Unlucky, the results could be unfortunate or
even disastrous!

The procedure for using your Luck is as follows: roll
two dice. If the number rolled is less than or equal to
your current LucK score, you have been Lucky and
the outcome will be helpful to you If the number
rolled is higher than your current LUCK score, you
have been Unlucky and will have to pay the penalty
for being Unlucky.

This action is known as Testing your Luck. Each time
you Test your Luck, you must subtract 1 point from
your current Luck score, whether the outcome is
successful or unsuccessful! Thus you will soon come to
realize that, the more you rely on your Luck, the
more risky this procedure will become.

If things go so badly that your Luck is reduced to 1
or zero, you will automatically be Unlucky whenever
you are forced to Test your Luck. So, be cautious out
there!

Using Luck in Battles

Periodically throughout your adventure you will be
instructed to Test your Luck; you will then be told the
consequences of your being Lucky or Unlucky, However,
in battles you always have the option of using your
Luck, either to inflict more serious damage on a creature
you have just wounded or to reduce the seriousness of a
wound the creature has just inflicted on you.

It
If you have just wounded an opponent you are fight-
ing, you may Test your Luck as described above. If you
are Lucky, you have inflicted a severe wound and may
deduct 2 extra points from your opponent’s STAMINA
score (so that your blow reduces its sTAMINA by 4
points rather than the usual 2 points). However, if you
are Unlucky, the wound was a mere graze and you
must restore 1 point to your opponent’s STAMINA
score so that, instead of your blow reducing your
opponent's STAMINA by the usual 2 points, you may
deduct only 2 point from its stAMINA).

If your opponent has just wounded you, you may Test
your Luck to try to reduce the effect of this wound. If
you are Lucky, you have managed to avoid the full
impact of the blow and may restore 1 point to your
own STAMINA (instead of your opponent's blow caus-
ing 2 points of damage to your STAMINA, it is reduced
to only 1 point). But if you are Unlucky, then you
have suffered a more serious blow and must deduct 1
extra STAMINA point (so that your opponent's blow
causes damage worth 3 STAMINA points rather than
the usual 2 points).

Testing Your Skill

Sometimes you will be instructed to Test your Skill.
This happens when you try to achieve something and
are uncertain of success; how skilful you are will affect
the outcome. You Test your Skill by rolling two dice
and adding the scores together. If the total rolled is
less than or equal to your SKILL, you are successful, If

IZ

the total rolled is greater than your SKILL, you have
failed. The appropriate paragraph will tell you what
the results of success and failure are when you have
had to Test your Skill. However, do not subtract any
points from your skILL score for Testing your Skill in
this way; this is the crucial difference between Testing
your Skill and Testing your Luck!

Presence

There is also a box on your Adventure Sheet for
recording your PRESENCE score. PRESENCE is a measure
of your force of personality and your will to survive
in the tough struggles that lie ahead. If your PRESENCE
score is high, you will create a favourable impression
with some of the people and creatures you may meet
— but you may also be more likely to attract the
enmity and the unwanted attention of evil, life-hating
creatures and monsters.

Roll one die then halve the number rolled, rounding
fractions up. Add 4 to this new number and enter the
total in the PRESENCE box on your Adoenture Sheet {so
this score will be between 5 and 7).

Restoring Skill, Stamina, Luck and Presence

Skill
Your skiL_ score will not change much during your
adventure. Occasionally a paragraph may give an
instruction to increase or decrease your SKILL score. A

13
Magic Weapon may increase your skILL — but remem-
ber that only one weapon can be used at a time! You
cannot claim two sxitt bonuses for carrying two
Magic Swords. Your skILL score cannot exceed its
Initial score unless you are specifically instructed to
the contrary,

Stamina and Provisions
Your STAMINA score will go up and down a lot during
your adventure as you fight enemies and undertake
arduous tasks. As you near your goal, your STAMINA
score may fall dangerously low, and battles may
become particularly risky, so be careful!

Your backpack contains enough Provisions for 12
meals. You may rest and have something to eat at any
time except when fighting, but you may eat only one
meal at a time. Eating a meal restores 4 STAMINA
points. When you eat a meal, add 4 points to your
current STAMINA score and deduct 1 point from your
Provisions on the Adventure Sheet. Remember that you
have a long way to go, so use your Provisions wisely!
Remember also that your sTAMINA score may never
exceed its Initial value unless you are specifically
instructed otherwise in a paragraph.

There will be times during your adventure when you
will be instructed that you must eat a meal, When you
are told to do this, deduct 1 point from your Provisions
on your Adventure Sheet, but you do not regain any
lost STAMINA this time. If you have to eat a meal but
you don’t have any Provisions left, you must deduct 2
points from your cwrent STAMINA score.

14

During your adventure, however, you should be able
to acquire at least some extra Provisions to add to the
store you begin with. This will enable you to keep
STAMINA up during your adventure. However, you
cannot carry more than 12 Provisions at any one time!

Luck

Your Luck score will also change during the adventure
as you Test your Luck. Additions to your LUCK score
may also be awarded when you have been especially
fortunate; likewise, you may be told to reduce your
LUCK score when you have made a particularly crucial
mistake; details of such events are given in the appropri-
ate paragraphs of the book. Remember that, as with
SKILL and STAMINA scores, your LUCK may never
exceed its Initial value unless you are specifically told
this.

Presence

Your PRESENCE score may well change several times
during the adventure: it may be drained by particular
attacks you will undergo or it may be replenished or
even raised in places by special encounters or through
powerful magic. Your PRESENCE score may well exceed
its Inifial value if you are very fortunate, although it
must never exceed a value of 12.

Equipment

You will start your adventure with very little equip-
ment indeed. All you have is a simple knife, a waterskin
and enough Provisions for 12 meals in your backpack.

15
and some simple fisherman's clothes — fortunately,
these are well made to keep you warm and safe from
the elements and, with your stout leather jerkin. are as
good as leather armour.

You do not possess either of the following at the very
beginning of your adventure: a sword or a shield for
self-protection. You should try to get hold of these
items as quickly as possible! You will suffer important
combat penalties if you do not possess them, If you
do not have a sword, just the knife you begin your
adventure with. you must roll one die each time you
manage to hit an enemy in combat, If you roll a 5 or a
6, you have been fortunate and may deduct the usual
2 points from your opponent's stamina. If you roll
1-4, however, you inflict only 1 point of stamina
loss on your enemy. A knife simply isn't as good a
weapon a3 4 sword, If you do not have a shield, you
must deduct 1 point from your skit. when fighting.

You will sometimes find treasure in the form of Gold
Pieces or valuable objects; you should record ary
items you find in the Treasure box on your Adventure
Sheet. Your opportunities for trading Treasure for help
and information will be very limited in the course of
this adventure, but you should still be honest about
keeping an accurate record of how much Treasure you
obtaint

A special feature of this adventure is that you should

always keep empty potion bottles (if you manage to
find magic potions) after you have drunk their contents,
because the bottles may come in handy as containers

16

later on! Make sure, when you drink a magic potion,
that you cross the potion off your Possessions list on
your Adventure Sheet; then record ‘empty potion bottle’
elsewhere on the Adventure Sheet.

Hints on Play

Your journey will be perilous and you may well fai] on
your first attempt, Make notes and draw a map as you
explore ~ this map will prove invaluable in later forays
in the adventure, and it will enable you to progress
more rapidly to unexplored regions,

Not all areas contain treasure or useful information:
many contain traps and wild creatures which you will
no doubt fall foul of. You may take wrong turnings
during your quest and, while you may indeed progress
through to your ultimate destination, it is by no means
certain that you will find what you are searching for.
However, the more areas you explore, the better the
chance you have for success in the adventure ahead.

Be very wary about Testing your Luck unless you are
told that you must do this! Generally, when it comes
to fights you should Test your Luck only to keep
yourself alive when an opponent's blow would other-
wise kill you (so far as reducing your sTAMINA loss
from your opponent's blows is concerned), Don’t Test
your Luck in order to try and do extra damage to your
enemy unless this is really necessary! Luck points are
precious.

You will quickly realize that paragraphs make no sense

17
if read in numerical order. It is essential that you read
only the paragraphs you are instructed to go to.
Reading other paragraphs lessens the excitement and
surprise during play.

The only true way to success in the adventure involves
minimizing risk; any player, no matter how weak his
or her initial dice-rolls, should be able to struggle
through to final success and glory.

May the luck of the gods go with you on the adven-
ture ahead! .

18
i re

ADVENTURE SHEET — excouwrer soxes

SKILL STAMINA LUCK Skill= Skifl= Skill=

Initial Skill=

Initial Stamina=

Initial Luck= Stamina= Stamina= Stamina=

HONOUR * TIME ELAPSED ENEMY Skill= Skill= Skilf=
ENCOUNTER
Stantina= Stamina= Stamtna=

EQUIPMENT LIST POSSESSIONS Skill= Skill= Skill=

Stamina= Stamina= Stamima=

PROVISIONS REMAINING

Skill= Skill= Skill=

Staming= Stamina= Stamina=

BACKGROUND

Life isn’t easy in the small fishing towns along the
coast facing the Strait of Knives in Allansia. The poor
soil of the land, together with the heat and droughts,
doesn’t yield much in the way of crops to sustain life.
Still, it’s better than living on the far side of the
Glimmering Sea and having to suffer the predations of
marauding Lizard Men from the swamplands of Silur
Cha. And the fishing here is good; it’s how most
people make a living. In the past, howling winds
whipped the sea into massive waves and whirlpools
along the coastline, and violent storms could brew up

in an hour or less, until the wizards came to Solani
Island

Why the magicians chose Solani as their home, no one
is certain. Perhaps they jiked the solitude, since they
had to share their island with just a small community
of monks, who didn’t bother them, The wizards were
specialists, using the magic of the elements in their
studies. They soon came to an arrangement with the
folk of the fishing villages which benefited everyone
The fisherfolk left the wizards alone and kept them
regularly supplied with food, wine, cloth, tools — and
with those raw materials for their magical experiments
which couldn't be found on the island: balls of sulphur,
vials of quicksilver, pure silver and bronze. The villag-
ers are poor people and normally cannot afford such

22

rarities, but the wizards’ part of the bargain more than
recompensed them for their offerings: in return, the
wizards used their power to calm the elements. Storms
and gales no longer afflicted the coast and the waters
now were calm and offered excellent fishing. With
such rich pickings available to them, and able to fish
every day, the villagers could sell their excess catch to
passing ships, to sell on to others along the coast who
could not rely on such good harvests from the sea.
The wizards let it be known that they would not take
kindly to others coming in and stealing the fish from
your home waters, and other folk were wise enough
not to incur the wrath of the wizards! The wizards
were held in high esteem; why, they even set up a
magical beacon of light in the old lighthouse on
Solani, to protect ships approaching from the open
sea.

Recently, though, something has clearly gone wrong.
A bad storm a week ago drowned all the men on
board one fishing vessel, the first loss of people to the
seas for some years. There have been rumours of a
dead man being washed ashore from the wreck; they
said that the corpse walked on the sands and killed
two goatherds before it was destroyed by fishermen.
Then, just last night, a freak wave swept in along the
shoreline and overwhelmed two more fishing boats,
killing a dozen men.

Something is wrong in Solani, and the livelihoods of
many hundreds of people are threatened. That includes
you! Although you have listened to seamen’s tales and
you have longed for a life of adventure in the strange

23
and wonderful lands they speak of, you still support
your family by fishing with your father and brothers.

The elders of the villages met and decided that a
group of men must go to Solani in the strongest,
stoutest boat the village can muster. The morning
weather looked set fair, sunny and calm, a beautiful
summer's morning with the gulls crying and swooping
over the azure waters, Everyone aboard took a weapon
and strapped on leather armour, uncertain what men-
aces Solani Island miight present. The boat made it
half-way across the strait before 2 wave rose almost
vertically upwards from a placid sea and smashed
down over it. Men were swept overboard; two were
crushed as the single mast broke across their backs,
and the boat keeled over and soon sank.

You were swept into the raging current of the now-
boiling sea, desperately holding your breath to stop
yourself from drowning. You struggled against an
inexorable force that was dragging you down, and
your eyes saw only red before them as your heartbeat
thumped in your ears. You couldn’t hold your breath
any longer, as you passed out you knew you were
going to die .., and you woke up lying on the shore
and coughing brine from your sodden lungs. Merci-
fully, most of what you carried seems to be with you,
and your food, wrapped in waterproof cloth, still looks
fit to eat Checking by the sun, you guess that you
have been washed up on the western coast of Solani
Island. You can’t see anyone else along the beach.
Perhaps you are the only survivor of the wreck. Now

24

it is up to you alone to solve the mystery of Solani
and discover what terrible fate has befallen the “wiz-
ards.

Now turn to paragraph 1.

25
I

Summoning what strength you have left, you get
painfully to your feet and walk along the shoreline,
looking for anything washed ashore from your ship.
You're almost ready to abandon the effort when you
spot a ragged figure lying, face down, in the sand.
You rush over to see if you can help the man and turn
over his body. You recognize him: he was the naviga-
tor. Suddenly his muscles twitch, the dead eyes open
and his hands claw at your throat! His corpse has been
animated by some fell magic, and you will have to
fight for your life!

SEA ZOMBIE SKILL 6 STAMINA 7

7%
oh
“ee " a

: rw4
4 =a 7
erate eet 8 7

f

» Vi
BS
ay
AN .

If you win, you clamber up the sandy incline in order
to get a better view around you. You notice some
driftwood and planks being washed up by the tide
from the north-east, although you saw no wreck when
your boat sailed towards the bay. To your east is an
expanse of barren, high moorland with jagged rocky
outcrops scattered here and there. To the south, a fair
expanse of woodland, starting in the near distance,
extends well into the centre of the island and towards
a western promontory. On the eastern edge of the
woods a hillock rises; it would certainly make a good
vantage-point for looking round the island. Lastly, just
to the north of east, across the moorland, you can

make out the white tower of a lighthouse. Will you
head:

North-east along the coastline? Turn to 3§1
South towards the woodland? Turn to §7

me,
East into the moorland? Turn to go
South-east towards the hillock? Tum to 186
Towards the lighthouse? Turn to 333

2

At the foot of the stairs you open a door and find
yourself looking into a long passageway which is lit
by magical glowing globes, set into wall-sconces. To
your left, the passageway ends at a glowing screen of
blue light beyond which you cannot see, and there is a
door on the wall opposite, a few paces to your left
Looking to your right, there is a door at the end of the
passage; a set of chiselled stone steps leading down
are set into the wall opposite, again a few paces to
your right. Will you:

Open the door to your left? Turn to 15
Open the door at the far right of the

passage? Tum to 385
Descend the steps? Turn to 56
Try to pass through the screen of light? Tum to 37

3

You can attempt to erase the pentagram by pouring
some liquid into the magical diagram to dissolve the
markings, If you have any of the following you can
use it here: olive oil, grog or Monks’ Herbal Liqueur (a
whole bottle of liqueur will be needed). Decide which
liquid to use, remove it from your Possessions, and
turn to 1x6. If you don’t have any of these liquids, or
if you prefer not to use any here, return to 302 and
choose another course of action.

47§

4
Smashing the Brass Orb at your feet cloaks you in an
aura of magical force. The Master of Fire flings a
handful of white magical missiles at you, but they
strike the aura and are dissipated, causing no damage!
You can completely ignore the effects of the next two
(and only two!) spells cast at you (this includes the
effects of running through magical fire, if this would
otherwise damage you). Regain 1 iuck point for your
wise action. Now rush the wizard; turn to 364.

5
Trying to climb the rigging when a storm is in full
spate is simply suicidal. You manage to climb 10
metres up before a vicious, gale-force gust tears you
from the boat and into the sea, breaking you on the
sharp rocks below. Your adventure ends here,

6-7
6

You enter the scrub margin of the marshland which
leads into the denser swamp to the south. There is a
track you can follow which keeps your feet out of the
inky pools and channels of brackish water that periodi-
cally release stinking bubbles of marsh gas. Clouds of
insects buzz and drone over the filthy water and the
plant life is mottled with a yellow blight. Fronds of
mangarel trees blot out the sunlight above you and
the swamp has an aura of sickness and disease about it.
If you have a vial of Green Cream, smear this on
yourself to keep the insects away, otherwise you must
deduct 3 points from your sTAMINA because of their
bites during your trek through the swamp. [f you have
Lung Rot, turn to 315. If you don’t have this disease,
turn to 384,

Fight the Homunculus normally, but with one excep-
tion: due to your adversary’s small size and its ability
to dodge and duck as it flies, your Attack Strength is
reduced by 1 point whenever you strike at it.

HOMUNCULUS SKILL 8

After three Attack Rounds (this includes any free hit
the Homunculus had if you tried parleying with it), the
far door in this room flies open and a bedraggled
young man in tattered robes peers round the door, He
takes in the situation and prepares to cast a spell at
you. If the Homunculus is still alive, you must continue

STAMINA 5

8-9

fighting it; turn to 184. If you have already killed the
Homunculus, you can attack the young man (tum to
395) or try to parley with him (tum to 262).

8

The trail grows narrower and finally emerges into a
circular clearing with no obvious route for further
exploration. However, you notice a patch of very
unusual purple fungi here. Their caps have strange,
thick, pink tendrils hanging down, looking for all the
world like rats’ tails. If you have a book which tells
you about the plants of Solani Island, tum to the
paragraph with the same number as that on the page
on which the Rats’ Tail Fungus is described. Otherwise
you must backtrack and take the southern route
through the woods, so turn to 345.

Test your Skill. If you are successful, you manage to
seal the manikin inside the chest before it can escape.
Now you can examine the swords, if you haven't
already (turn to 103), or leave and search elsewhere
(turn to 79). If you fail, the manikin bursts out of the
chest and grows to full human size, and you are forced
to fight it; turn to 268.
IO-12

0

The diamond pulses and glows, absorbing the energies
of the Dire Spectre’s attacks into itself. Regain 5 points
of STAMINA, and you also gain 1 point of PRESENCE!
You may now drink a Blue Potion if you have one
(tum to 147), move to attack the Spectre (turn to 242),
or coat your sword with Spectrebane, if you have any
(turn to E74)

II

As you run back along the passageway, you are hit by
a buffet of wind which batters you to the ground.
Deduct 3 points from your sTAMINA. You pick yourself
up and keep running. Tum to 23 to choose another
area to search, but make a note that you can return
here from the main passage by turning to 340.

Your weapon is useless against the Elemental, which
lashes out at you with a hard blow. Deduct 2 points
from your STAMINA. You are forced to flee; turn to

379-

13

13

It takes quite some time to make even a cursory
examination of the shelves, there are so many of them;
you must eat a meal during your search. The books
themselves are indecipherable to a non-magical person
such as yourself, but you do find a scrap of paper
covered in very crabbed and angry handwriting. You
read, ‘He’s a FOOL! Stupid! It’s obvious to a moron
that progress will depend upon getting the Earth
element correctly infused. The Airy element can be
wholly ignored at this stage.’ The note continues, full
of invective and abuse, with a bitter diatribe against
the Master of Air. The tone of the jottings is wild and
furious, and you feel sure that the wizard who wrote
so angrily must have been half crazy at the time. Now
return to 110 and select an option you haven't chosen
before.

nl
i)

‘ ; J |

} eee The Pocket Dragon continues its telepathic messages.
I'm a wizard's familiar, it explains. Belonged to Shantizair,
Great Wizard of Gallantaria; I suppose you've heard of
him, hmmm? You have no reply. Oh well, anyway, he’s
dead now. Drowned in the wreck down there. He was
trying fo investigate the wizards of Solani. They'd been
dredging up the dead from the sea, playing with animating
them by magic, then there was some kind of argument —
Shantizair wasn't certain about that, but if was something
to do with a stone circle in the woods as I recall. The
monks at the monastery along the coast, one of them
had found out something. He hid some crystals, left some
secret with the hermit of the woodlands, and went to the

shr...

i |
Vi ' ,

The Pocket Dragon’s message stops abruptly as a
_ stony fist smashes down on the tiny fluttering crea-
ture.

| You stare in horror at the creature which seems to
have appeared spontaneously in the lighthouse cupola.

| The bestial, inhuman thing has wild hair, mad eyes and
clawed fingers, and is dressed in rotting rags. Its skin
is covered in stony nodules and plates, and its undead
claws rake at your flesh. You must fight the Stonewight
for your life.

STONEWIGHT SKILL 9 STAMINA 10

lf you win and you were struck twice at most by the
Stonewight, turn to 135. If you win, but you were
struck three times or more, turn to 190.

15-17

I

You open the door into a storeroom which has been
almost emptied of its contents. Empty jars, sacks with
but a handful of stale grain, scattered empty bottles
and the like litter the shelves here. It looks fairly
barren; if you want to make a prolonged search, tum
to 65. Alternatively, going back to the passage, will
you:

Open the door at the far end of the
passage, if you haven't already

done so? Turn to 385
Descend the steps? Turn to 56
Try to pass through the screen of

light? Turn to 37

16

The hermit evades your blow with staggering agility
and ease by leaping up into a tree. From there he
empties the contents of a small bag of spores over
your head, You can’t avoid breathing in the fungal
spores; they irritate your throat and eyes and make
you cough horribly. After you’ve rubbed the tears
from your eyes, the hermit is gone — and you have
contracted the disease, Lung Rot (make a note of this
on your Adventure Sheet). Turn to 168.

17
The Master of Fire suddenly stands upright beside his
throne and begins to cast a spell. You cannot see him
clearly through the heat haze, but he looks a powerful,
tall and commanding figure in his red-and-black robes,

18-19

and you are in no doubt that he is about to unleash
something very unpleasant upon you. What will you
do now? Will you:

Run down the left-hand stairs
towards the Black Skeleton?

Run down the right-hand stairs?

Throw acid at the Master of Fire, if
you have some?

‘Tum to 131
Turn to 239

Turn to 120

18

A stone monastery stands behind a thicket of heavy
tanglebriar in front of you. As you approach the
tunnel-like passage through the forbidding plant bar-
rier, the thorned and heavily barked branches of the
plants lash out to strike at you. If you have some
Green Cream and wish to use it here, tum to the
paragraph with the number that is twice that of the
paragraph where you found the Green Cream. If you
have no cream, you can risk forcing a way through the
vegetation {turn to 33) or leave and find somewhere
else on the island to investigate (turn to 281).

19
The thin-faced young fellow lowers his hands, realizing
that you have no intention of killing him. Clearly he’s
desperately afraid, though, and he is shaking and
trembling as he speaks. He doesn’t know who you are
and won't give you his name; he says he is a wizard’s
apprentice and is imprisoned here. You sense that
threatening him won’t get you anywhere, so you must
make some gesture of friendship. You can offer him
20-23

food (deduct 1 from your Provisions), a Potion of
Stamina, some grog or a dose of Monks’ Herbal
Liqueur. If you do this, remove the appropriate item
from your Adventure Sheet and turn to 48. If you won't
give him anything, he won't trust you — so you can
either attack him (turn to 30) or leave him here and go
elsewhere (turn to 76).

20
As you leave the great central barrow, the moon’s
light is beginning tb fade and the last of its rays are
illuminating the central arch. You decide that you may
find yourself trapped in whatever realm this magical
terrain is sunken in during the day if you do not get
away swiftly; who knows if the living can survive here
as the dead do? You climb a tree to get some sleep;
turn to 276.

21
A powerful feeling of well-being surges through your
body. If you had any disease, it is now cured. Restore your
STAMINA to its Inifial Level, and you may add 1 point to
that Initia! value (to a maximum of 24). Turn to 245.

22
The final strike by the undead creature paralyses you!
Unfortunately you can still feel pain as the monster
begins to feed on your flesh...

a3
Standing in the main passageway, choose an area to
explore which you have not yet investigated. Will you:

24-26

Open the brown door? Turn to 21§

Open the black door? Turn to 381

Descend the stairs? Tum to 322

Open the rosewood door? Turn to 71
Head for the hazy yellow light in

the distance? Turn to 340

24
Searching along the clifftop a little way from the
tower, you find a path leading down, so you investi-
gate it. Hidden behind a screen of windblown shrubs
half-way along, you discover a hidden tunnel leading
towards the base of the black tower. You can enter
this lightless passage if you wish (tum to 399); other-
wise, you return to the tower (turn to 128).

25

Whatever you may choose to do with the crystals will
achieve nothing here. Roll one die; from the fingers of
the Master of Fire fly the same number of white
magical darts and they all strike you in the chest and
arms; deduct 1 point from your sTAMINA for each
dart. If you are still alive, you decide to run straight at
the wizard, so turn to 364.

26
You jump as an owl hoots close by. You had nodded
off to sleep! Rubbing your tired eyes, you see that the
scene in the clearing is quite different now that moon-
light is shining softly down on the area. The crescent
moon above the stone arch radiates a soft white light
and within the clearing stands a circle of standing
27-28

stones. Enclosed within the ring are three barrows of
earth, each with a darkened entrance, one to either
side of you and one with its entrance directly in front
of you.

If you want to enter a barrow, you need a lantem in
order to see properly. If you don’t have a lantern, you
must deduct 2 from your Attack Strength during any
combats in any of the barrows, and you will be very
vulnerable to traps. What will you do now?

Climb a tree and ‘get some sleep? Turn to 276
Enter the right-hand barrow? Turn to 38
Enter the left-hand barrow? Turn to 160
Enter the large central barrow? Turn to 59

27
Attacking the Lizard Man is a serious tactical error
You saw only one, but there are nearly a dozen of
them here, armed with spears, tridents and nets. You
are swiftly overwhelmed and netted, then they carry
you off for lunch. Your adventure ends here.

28
‘Molander was the first life-meddler. He played with
simple forms of life: algae, plant life, amoebae and the
like, using them as simple substrates for his later
experiments, creating hybrids and mutants and the
like. Few of his creations ever survived. Beware the
monster in the pool room; try to lure it out to attack
you out of the water. There are valuable things in his
alchemical laboratory — good magic there, but the
door is dangerously trapped. There is a magical box in

29-41

his study which creates food, too.’ The spirits are
fading and can say no more; tum to 167.

29
The gross, filthy horror advances towards you with a
disgusting undulation, squelching in its own acidic
slime, eager to devour you!

SLIMEWORM SKILL 8 STAMINA 10
If you win, will you:
Climb the stairs? Turn to 376
Open the trapdoor? Turn to 261
Leave and make for the wreck? Turn to 291
Leave and find somewhere else to
visit? Tum to 7o

30
You strike out and slay the newly trusting young man,
a shameful act. Lose 1 point each of PRESENCE and
Luck. Turn to 76.

31

As you make your way back to the landing, you
notice that a strange change has taken place in the
pentagram. It seems to have expanded and now is
pulsing slightly with a dim yellow light; it almost
seems to be growing across the woodwork even as
you look at it. It’s impossible to bypass it, and you
take your courage in both hands as you step into it
and cross to the stairs below. Turn to 392.
52-33

32

The Spectre glides across the burnt-out ruins of his
study, intent on throttling the life out of you. He will
fight with his life-draining spectral hands in the second
and subsequent Attack Rounds of this combat, but in
the first Attack Round he will cast a spell at you. If
you have the higher Attack Strength in this first
round, you wound him and ruin his spell-casting. If he
has the higher Attack Strength, he will encircle you
with a whirling radius of ice and superchilled hail, and
you will lose 5 stAMINA points!

MASTER OF WATERS — SKILL 10 ~=STAMINA 14

If you win, and the Spectre struck you at least once,
roli one die. If you roll any number other than a 6,
you must deduct 1 point fom your skILL because of
the life-draining chill caused by the Spectre’s strikes.
However, you gain 1 point of PRESENCE for dispelling
this awful undead creature. You can see clearly that
nothing in this room is of any use to you. You can
now open the left-hand door (turn to 317) or the
right-hand door (turn to 263).

33
You do your best to fend off the attacks of the
tanglebriar as you push your way through to the
monastery. You must lose 3 STAMINA points through
scratches and lashes, but then you succeed in getting
close to the front door of the monastery, which is
slightly ajar. There doesn’t appear to be any other
entrance to the building. Roll two dice and add the
numbers rolled. If the total is less than, or equal to,
34-35

your PRESENCE, turn to 206. If the total is greater than
your PRESENCE, turn to 222.

34
Where will you go now? Pick an area which you have

not previously investigated to explore next:

The lighthouse (north-east) Turn to 333
The stone building (north-east) Turn to 18
The woodlands (west) Tum to 57
The marshlands (south) Tum to 6

35
Roll two dice. If the total is less than, or equal to, your
PRESENCE, turn to 148. If the total is higher than your
PRESENCE, turn to 341.

36=37

36

You place the Tiger Eye inside the pentagram, and a
soft, golden-brown glow emanates from its centre.
You step back as a solid pillar of rock rises at the far
margin of the pentagram, but still within it. A great
fisted Earth Elemental stands before youl! It makes no
motion but simply waits. What will you do here? Will
You:

Ask the Elemental for material aid? = Turn to 247
Ask the Elemental to travel with you

in order to help you? Turn to 304
Ask the Elemental for magical aid? Turn to 238
Attack the Elemental? Turn to 358

37
You touch the screen of blue light and recoil with a
yelp of pain as a sharp shock rushes up your arm and
numbs it. Lose 2 points from your sTAMINA. Because
your arm has been weakened for a time, you must
deduct 1 point from your Attack Strength during your
next combat. Now, will you:

Open the door at the far end of the
passage, if you haven't done so
before? Turn to 385

Open the door along the passage, if
you haven't already done so?

Descend the stone steps?

Tum to 15
Turn to §6
38-39

38

If you don’t have a lantern, you fail to see the crude
pit a couple of metres inside the entrance; you fall
down on top of sharp stones and broken bones. Lose
3 STAMINA points, but at least you can drag yourself
out of it. Inside the barrow is a stench of decay, caused
partly by the leaves which have blown in and rotted
away, and partly by other things you don’t want to
investigate. Yellowed bones break the crude earthen
surface; this must have been a mass grave. You really
don’t want to disturb the dead here, do you? If you
do, turn to 87. If you prefer not to, will you instead:

Climb a tree and get some sleep? Turn to 276
Enter the left-hand barrow, if you

haven't already? Turn to 160
Enter the large central barrow? Turn to §9

You have to overcome a final barrier before you can
attack the Master of Fire: his magical wall of fire. If
you have a Fire Ruby, you know how many facets it
has; multiply that number by two and add thirty, then
turn to the paragraph with that number. If you don’t
have this item, turn to 308.

40

40

You tap gently the indicated number of times and the
door swings open. The cabin behind the door is clean
and tidy. A small book lies open on a desk, a half-
eaten meal some days old rests on a table and a set of
robes is laid out on the bunk bed A small wooden
coffer is wedged under the bunk bed. There is no sign
of the person who occupied this cabin. Checking
carefully first, you then drag the coffer out from under
the bunk. You force it open and find a small Gold Key
(make a note of this paragraph number as the one
where you found this key} and a Potion of Stamina.
This Potion can be drunk at any time, except during
combat, and will restore lost stTAMINA points up to
one-half of your Initial stamina (round fractions up).
You also find a vellum scroll secured with a black
ribbon; you untie it and read with interest:

Dear Shantizair,

Your Work in tracking down the Elementalists is
much appreciated. Take great Care if you plan more
direct Investigations! Consult Brother Kendris at the
Monastery of Hamaskis before you contemplate
entering the Circle of Summoning itself — if you can
reach it! Indeed, a Spirit there might serve you, but
practise Caution! Kendris may have found a
Truename which will give you Power over one of
the Wizards, And he will have the Crystals which
will protect you against their Magic. Almost cer-
tainly the Shrine will be used to safeguard at least
some of them. Old Father Honorton has a Key to
the old Crypt below the Tower, which might also be
41

important if you decide to investigate the Wizards
directly.

The scrawled signature is illegible. Pondering the mean-
ing of the information in the note, it’s time for you to
go elsewhere. Tur to 356.

41
You look down over the chalky cliffs at the foam-
flecked breakers rushing in upon the jagged rocks
along the shore, and you see at once that there is
more violence afoot than that of sea clashing on stone.
Down in the bay, a massed group of Mermen, some
riding great Sea Horses, are battling furiously with an
equally large band of Shark-Kin, creatures with the
torsos and fang-filled jaws of sharks yet with the arms
and legs of humans, allowing them to use tridents as
well as their Jethal bites, What will you do here?

Look for a way down the cliffs?

Head south-westwards through the
plains? Turn to 201

Travel east to the black tower? Turn to 124

Turn to §§

42

42

As soon as you enter this room, you discover the
source of the strange sounds you heard coming from
it; this chamber is a natural grotto, filled with stalactites
and stalagmites of exceptional beauty and size, striated
limestone columns and deep pools of water, milky
with salts and minerals that have been dissolved from
the rocks around. The pools bubble and seethe, and
the noise is coming from them. As you look around,
fascinated by all this, one pool starts to bubble very
violently and a creature comes to the surface and
emerges from it. You have never seen anything like
this — it looks for all of Titan like a vast blancmange,
with huge, round, brown eyes and with pseudopods
and suckers dotted over its surface, and even the
remains of a limb or two. You're not sure whether it
intends to attack you — and now your senses register
another unfortunate surprise: the door to this chamber
has slammed shut behind you. A hard tug on it tells
you that it isn’t going to open easily. In the meanwhile,
the amoeba-like beast is undulating excitedly before
you. What are you going to do now? Will you try:

Communicating with the beast? Turn to 60
Tugging at the door to open it? Turn to 112
Feeding the monster? Tum to 130
Searching for another way out? Tum to 169
Attacking the monster? Turn to 189

43-44

43

As you imidge along, a thin, reedy voice greets you
from behind some trees. ‘What do you want here?’
pipes a scrawny and ragged old man. You see that he
is sitting in a peculiarly twisted tree. The wild-eyed
hermit nervously peels a fruit of some sort with his
filthy-nailed, gnarled old hands and you wonder what
to say to him. If you don’t know the hermit’s name,
turn to 73. If you know his name, convert it into a
number using the formula A = 1, B = 2, C =3..,
Z = 26. Add up the numbers corresponding to the
individual letters of his name, and then turn to the
paragraph of the same number as this total. If that
paragraph doesn’t begin ’’Well met... .”’, you got it
wrong, so you will have to turn to 73 instead.

44
You must have a magic sword to be able to harm him.

If you don’t have a magic sword you are forced to flee;
turn to 134. If you do have a magic sword, you can
fight it normally, but the wizard’s attacks on the first
two Attack Rounds will be special ones. In the first
Attack Round, if he has the higher Attack Strength he
will blast you with a hail of flying rocks and stones,
and you will have to lose 5 sTAMINA points. In the
second Attack Round, if he has the higher Attack
Strength he will drench you with a vicious jet of
acid, and you must deduct 5 points from your
STAMINA. Thereafter, the wizard strikes with his hands,
which will damage you by chilling and numbing your
vitality; you will lose 2 stamina points for each
successful strike he makes. You cannot flee from the
combat now!
45-46

MASTER OF EARTH

If you win, you search this chamber, but you find
nothing of value to you. You return to the main
passage; turn to 23.

SKILL 10 STAMINA 14

45
Pushing open the door at the bottom of the stairs, you

stumble into the extensive cellars of the monastery.
They're dark, but fortunately there is a lantern with
plenty of oil here, so you take this to light your way
(add it to your Possessions). You also take two small
bottles of Monks’ Herbal Liqueur; each half-bottle
dose is a wonderful stimulant, restoring 4 points of
STAMINA when drunk, which you can do at any time
except during combat. You can’t carry more than two
small bottles, Now, if you want to make an extended
search of the cellars by prodding around in dark and
dingy corners, turn to 313. Alternatively, you can
leave the kitchens and go back to the passage, either
opening the door opposite if you haven’t done this
before (turn to 398) or heading down the passage to
the T-junction further into the building (turn to 1§4)

46
You fun and mn while the manikin continues to
expand in size until it measures some two metres in
height. You slam the door just as one of its fists
punches you in the back; deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA, It batters at the door as you close it, and
you need something to wedge the door shut. You can
use a wooden pole to do this, or you can wedge a

47

stone axe under the door; you must have the item you
wish to use, of course, and you must leave it behind, If
you are able to wedge the door shut, turn to 7g. If
you have neither of these iterns, the manikin will break
through the door and you must fight it; turn to 268,

47
You hold out your empty hands trying to show that

you mean no harm. The Lizard Man eyes you carefully,
as do about a dozen others who appear here and there
on the trail. The Lizard Man knows a few halting
words of your language, and you get by with a few
gestures in reply. The Lizard Man makes it plain that
he expects some offering from you, a goodwill gift.
You can give him any one of the following, and it will
satisfy him: 5 Gold Pieces, a Gold Chain, a Gold Key
or a Silver Skeleton Key. If you will not or cannot
give him any of these, you must backtrack and choose
another route through the swamp: either the south-
western trail (tum to 69) or the rope-bridge of vines
(turn to 84).
48

if you give him one of these objects, he smiles and
gives you a flask of fresh water in return, which you
greedily gulp down. To your parched throat it tastes
like nectar (regain 4 points of lost stamina), Finally,
he gives you a waming: there are renegade and hostile
Lizard Men further along, this trail; they are somehow
altered or different from ordinary Lizard Men. The
Lizard Men round you all look either angry or sad-
dened at this reference; there is much swishing of tails
and poking of spears! After this warning, you might
want to return to the south-western trail (turn to 69)
or to the rope-bridge (turn to 84). If you prefer to
press on along this route, turn to 2qr. If you prefer to
try to get some rest among the Lizard Men, turn
to 214.

48
The young man gratefully accepts what you offer him.
He says his name is Vesperen; he served one of the
tour wizards who lived in the tower and dungeons. He
is afraid to leave because of the guards outside the
tower; they may attack him. His supplies have run
very low and he doesn’t know where to get any more
tood or water, You may tell him how he can pet out
of the tower (if you have killed the guards or smuggled
yourself in through the cliffs, for example), and he’s
desperate to Jeave. But first he will give you some
information. He'll tell you about two and only two of
the subjects listed below: when you consult one of the
paragraphs, you will be referred back here; but after
you have learned about the two subjects of your

49

choice, Vesperen will have his bags packed ready to
leave, and you haven't the heart to stop him. So, will
you ask about:

What happened to the wizards?

Dangerous traps in the dungeons?

What is in the upper levels of the
tower? Tum to 138

Turn to 386
Turn to 293

Elementals in the dungeons? Turn to 161
Undead in the dungeons? Turn to 213
How to get past the blue screen of

light, and what's behind it? Turn to 246

After you have made your two choices and got your
information, turn to 76.

49
The plain wooden door opens to reveal a square
chamber beyond. The floor here is clearly sunken,
because the room is filled with water. If you want to
teach the door on the far side of this chamber, you'll
have to wade through the water. What will you do
here? Will you?

Wade into the water to cross the
room? Tum to 133

Try to test the depth of the water? Turn to 64
Try to find out if there’s something

in the pool? Turn to 83
Leave and open the other door along

this side-passage? Turn to 366
Leave and search elsewhere? Tum to 106
JO-$2

50
You grip the sapphire in your hand and push on the
plaque to open the door. The shifting face of the
gargoyle sinks its teeth into your wrist and you shriek
at the ferocious pain which rips along your arm.
Deduct 4 points from your sTAMINA, but you make it
into the room beyond. Turn to 383.

51
If you decided to use a pearl which you had, turn to
207. If you used ariy other item, it has not affected the
slimy liquid at all, so you can either break the glass of
the tank (turn to 176) or find somewhere else to
search, leaving this chamber (turn to 106).

-——

52

Below decks you see a door swinging loose. It opens
into the seamen’s mess where hammocks swing wildly
as the boat rocks in the water; there’s no one there,
and nothing to catch your eye. However, there are
also two closed cabin doors and one of them has a
strange magical symbol etched on it. Beyond them is a
double door, which you guess may open into a large
hold at the bow of the ship. Will you:

Open the double door? Turn to 8§
Check the magical symbol on one of

the cabin doors? Turn to 97
Open the other cabin door? Tum to 114

53-$S

53
Parraine lets you know that he senses that his bones

are not far away, to your left. You gather them up and
place them beneath a cairn of stones you have col-
lected, saying a few prayers to the good gods of Titan
to protect your helper and friend. Of course, now you
have no services left to call on from the Spirit, but you
gain 1 LUCK point and 1 point of PRESENCE for your
good deed. Now you can either make straight for the
black tower (turn to 128) or search along the cliffs
(turn to 24).

54 ;
You move across the etheric terrain determinedly but

slowly, given your unfamiliarity with it. The hateful
undead creature before you croaks with a venomous,
guttural voice and its very speech crystallizes in the
ether into black, spiked motes of magical force which
fly at you and strike you. Roll one die; you are struck
by as many motes as the number rolled, each of which
inflicts 1 point of damage to your sTAMINA. But you
close doggedly in on your final assailant; tum to 242.

55
You find a hazardous descent to the bay and clamber
down, lucky not to tum an ankle or plummet headlong
on to the rocks. You wade into the battle . .. but will
you help the Shark-Kin (tum to 139) or the Mermen
(turn to 173)?
at a

56-57

56
One step at a time, you make your way carefully
down the stone stairway, looking for traps. Test your
Skill; if you don't have a wooden pole with you to test
the steps ahead, you must add 2 to the total rolled. If
you are successful, turn to 144. If you fail, turn to ror.

57

Striding out into the deciduous woodland, your acute
hearing picks up the sound of quiet birdsong and the
scurrying of small creatures in the thick undergrowth.
Your nerves are on edge here; every snapping twig,
every rustle or sudden whirring of a startled bird
taking flight preys on your mind. You edge forward
cautiously; and soon your path diverges within the
woods. Will you take the southern fork (turn to 345)
or the northern fork (turn to 8)?

58

58
You decide to investigate something which you
haven't already examined in the laboratory. Will you
inspect:

The green glass globes? Turn to 72
The red glass globes? Turn to B8
The potions and bottles? Turn to 140
The oils and unguents? Turn to 259
The val? Tum to 273
The chest? Tum to 284

When you're ready to leave this laboratory, return to
the main passage and find somewhere else to search
by turning to 106.

59-61

59

Your heart is pumping frantically as you enter the
large barrow mound. Uneasy dead do not rest quietly
here. You inch forward into the supernatural chill of
the barrow, and you think you can hear mutters and
murmurs coming from the gloom around you. You
imagine the terrors dwelling in deep tombs and you
imagine foetid breath on your face, rank and foul. But
it’s no imagining! Before you stands a ghastly shrouded
corpse, its decaying body weakly phosphorescent.
Lumps of flesh hang from its skeletal arms, and its
sightless eye-sockets writhe with maggots. It extends
its bony hands to embrace you with the paralysing
touch of the grave. You strike at it blindly with your
sword. The thing, whatever it is, has a sxiLt of 8;
work out which of you has the higher Attack Strength
for this first Attack Round. If yours is the higher, you
hit the thing for 2 points of damage to its STAMINA;
tum to 137 and deduct 2 points from its STAMINA as
given in that paragraph. If your undead enemy has the
higher Attack Strength, turn to 102

60
There’s no way you can communicate with a five-
metre-wide mutated amoeba in a state of wobbling
excitement! It’s growing a little angry now ... you
guess that it wants food. Turn to 130.

61
The door here. opens into a once-splendid chamber in
which someone — or something — has clearly gone
berserk. Furnishings have been smashed, a fine rug is
62

ripped in ribbons, and some of the teak panels have
been gouged away from the walls. This room is an
utter shambles. If you want to search it, you will have
to Test your Luck to see whether you can find anything
at all. If you are prepared to do this, turn to ro4.
Otherwise, you leave this room; will you:

Leave the monastery? Turn to 281
Head along the passage to the other

door, if you haven't already

opened it? * Turn to 255
Climb the stairs? Turn to 302

62

You get half-way along the passage and the Skeletons
are all standing still — then suddenly one of them
extends a bony leg and sends you flying with a well-
timed trip. As the Red Skeletons swarm round you,
you fall heavily (deduct 1 point from your sTAMINA)
and you are winded, so you must subtract 1 from your
Attack Strength for the first three Attack Rounds of
the combat you cannot now avoid. Turn to 275.

63-65

63

You take the brass orb in your hands. It seems magical
even to one such as yourself who is unschooled in
arcane matters, and you are glad to have it, even
though you do not know what help it may give you.
Make a note of this paragraph number as the one
where you found the orb. Now it’s time to leave the
barrow; turn to 20.

64
If you don’t have a wooden pole, you can’t really be
sure about the depth, so retum to 49 and choose
another course of action.

If you do have a wooden pole, you poke it into the
water until it touches the bottom. You estimate that
the water must be nearly two metres deep. Just as you
are about to withdraw the pole, something in the pool
snatches it from your hand and you lose it! Return to
49 to decide what to do next.

You must eat a meal during your search here. You
don’t find any useful articles here but you do find a
secret door in one of the walls. If you have a Silver
Skeleton Key, you can, if you wish, open this door; if
you don’t have that key, you cannot open it Will you:
66

Open the secret door?

Open the door at the far end of the
passage, if you haven't done so
before? Tum to 385

Descend the steps? Turn to 56

Try to pass through the screen of
light? Turn to 37

Tum to 89

66

As you examine the charred corpse, just for an instant
its melted eye-sockets glow with a terrible, infernal,
inner light. Its blackened hands clutch at your arm and
its finger-bones rake your flesh, even as they crumble
to ash; deduct 2 points from your STAMINA. Horrified,
you step back from the thing as it collapses to the
floor. You now have an indelible black mark on your
arm from its touch; make a note of this. You flee from
the room; turn to 106,

The Red Skeletons do not react to your presence and
you can hardly believe your good fortune as you walk
cautiously past them. Gain 1 Lucx point. You reach
the red door at last; turn to 260.

68

The Orb lands harmlessly at the Master's feet; this
action has achieved nothing, except that you have
thrown away something which might otherwise have
protected you. Roll one die; that many white magical
darts fly from the fingers of the Master of Fire. They
strike you in the chest and arms; deduct 1 point from
your STAMINA for each dart, If you're still alive, you
decide to make a run for the wizard, so turn to 364.
69-71
69

The trail winds among some heavy clumps of vegeta-
tion, and suddenly you miss your footing and slide
down into a pool of disgusting swamp water. You
accidentally swallow some of the filth and come out,
coughing, spluttering and nauseous; deduct 3 points
from your STAMINA. Something has taken an interest
in your strenuous activity: sliding through the swamp
waters comes a huge swamp alligator! Its massive
jaws open to fasten on your legs and you must fight
the thing. You're half in the swamp, so you cannot
flee.

SWAMP ALLIGATOR SKILL 8 STAMINA 10

If at any time the alligator has an Attack Strength of
20, turn to 162. If you win, turn to 188.

70

You head back across the moorland towards the centre
of the island and eventually find shelter below a rocky
outcrop. It’s beginning to grow late; you need rest,
sleep and food. You must eat a meal here. Drawing
your blanket over you, you manage some restless
sleep during a warm night. Regain 2 lost sTAMINA
points, but in the morning you must eat a meal. Roll
one die; if you roll an odd number, turn to rrx1. If you
roll an even number, turn to 212.

71
The rosewood door is simply a trap. It is a false door
and, as you try to push it open, the door handle
72-75

springs out and hits you hard in the midriff, You
double up in pain; lose 2 points from your sTAMINA.
Try somewhere else! Turn to 23.

72
As soon as you touch one of the green globes it
explodes, showering you with fragments of glass at
point-blank range; lose 4 points from your STAMINA.
Return to §8 and choose something else to check!

*

73
Roll two dice and add them together. If the total rolled is
less than, or equal to, your PRESENCE, turn to 204. If the
total rolled is greater than your PRESENCE, turn to 118

74
This is a terrible mistake. As the body jerks into life,
the clawed hand grasps the crystals and crushes them,
while a ghastly cackle of glee accompanies the gesture.
You've just thrown away a source of power, and your
combat here will be hard indeed. Turn to 17.

75
You must Test your Skill. If you do not succeed, you
fail to spot a pit trap and fall heavily, losing 3 points
from your STAMINA. If you are successful, you observe
the pit in time and edge past it without harm. Now
you can see that the passage terminates at a door,
which you push open to reveal the chamber beyond.
This room has smoothed stone walls, and a magical
pentagram has been etched into the floor here. The
design of a golden-swirled Tiger Eye stone is promi-

76

nent in the centre of the pentagram. If you have a
Tiger Eye stone and you wish to use it to activate the
magical pentagram, then you also have a ruby: turn to
the paragraph with the same number of facets as the
ruby. Otherwise, you must leave the chamber and
follow the passage in the opposite direction if you
haven’t explored there yet (turn to 320) or go back to
the chute and climb out (turn to 334).

76

Leaving the apprentice’s chambers, will you:

Open the door along the passageway,

if you haven’t done so before? Turn to 15
Descend the stairs? Turn to §6
Try to get through the blue light

screen? Turn to 37

77-78

77
The Squirting Octopus lashes at your face and limbs
with its adhesive, grey-green-suckered tentacles ~ and,
while the teeth in its beak may be small they are razor
sharp . . . and there are scores of them!

SQUIRTING OCTOPUS

If you win, you may retrieve your fishing net. If you
have acquired a chest from your diving, turn to 202. If
you have no chest, but you managed to bring up a
bottle, turn to 279. If you obtained neither, turn to 387,

SKILL 7  STAMINAQ

78
Looking along the side-passage at the far right of the
main tunnel, you can see one door half-way along and.
at the end of the tunnel, a heavy door with a brass
plaque. Even from where you stand, odd whooshing
and slurping sounds can be heard coming from behind
the nearer door. Will you:

Open the nearer door? Tum to 42
Open the far door with the brass

plaque? Turn to 328
Search elsewhere? Turn to 106

79-80

79
Standing in the middle of this strange chamber with
your back to the door you entered by, you must open
a door you haven't tried yet. Will it be:

The door to your left? Turn to 211
The door to your right? Turn to 46
The door straight ahead of you? Tum to 310

You use the Gold Key to open the door; then you
reach into the alcove below and lift out a heavy tract
bound in red feather. Clearly, a monk managed to
hide this prized book before the monastery was ut-
terly ravaged: it is a herbiary, describing the medicinal
uses of plants. You are no scholar, but three of the
entries have been dog-eared and annotated. Make a
note of the three dog-eared pages and their contents:
page 311 on the Rat-tailed Fungus, page 175 on the
Pitcher Plant, and page 266 on the vicious-looking
Axeplant. After this brief literary excursion, will you:

Leave the monastery? Tum to 281
Go along the passage to the other

door, if you haven’t already

opened it? Tum to 6%
Set off up the stairs? Turn to 302
81-82 83

81 8
The Master's fingers flicker and move through the air, The best way to discover svhether anything is living
and a chunk of the ceiling above you comes crashing in the water is to throw in some food. If you wish to
down. A heavy stone block strikes you a glancing do this, you can either toss ordinary food into the
blow on the shoulder, ruining your aim just as you are water (subtract 2 from your Provisions) or you can use
trying to throw the acid. Lose 4 points from your a flask or a bottle containing slime instead {if you have
STAMINA. If you are still alive, you can make a dash some). Will you:
for the left-hand set of stairs (turn to 98) or the right- 7...
hand set of stairs (turn to 248). Throw some food or slime into the
water? Turn to 9§
Spread some slime round the edge of
the pool? Tum to 254
Wade through the water? Turn to 133
Leave this room and open the other
door? Turn to 366
Leave and search elsewhere? Turn to 106

82
You whisper the name, ‘Molander’, and the gargoyle-
face hesitates, sinking back into the plaque as you
push the door open. You move hastily through into
the room beyond, Turn to 383.

84-85

84

You clamber up towards the vines and, when you get
there, you find that the network of creepers and
branches forming the rope-bridge makes quite a safe
footing. Mercifully it’s cooler up here, and you make
good headway along your airy route — until suddenly
the bridge gives way and you plunge six metres down
into a pool of slime-clogged, bug-infested swamp
water! Deduct 2 points from your STAMINA as you
emerge, gasping for air. Swarming down on top of
you are several creatures unlike any you‘ve seen before:
they are a metre tall, half amphibian and half human in
appearance, with yellow-green, frog-like skin and bulg-
ing eyes. They carry sharp wooden spears, and one or
two even have stone knives. Fight the Grupplers as a
single opponent here.

GRUPPLERS SKILL 7 STAMINA 10

If you win, you see a horde of the little horrors
heading towards the spot where they deliberately cut
the rope-bridge; they are armed with the same weap-
ons. You are forced to run for your life, returning to
the area where you think the trail is. Now you must
Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 147. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 327.

85
Se The forward hold is partly waterlogged and the tim-
ae Reaage Sy fen oe a bers are pierced by a sharp rock. You can hear the
hate aa i De gh. grinding of wood on stone but, even though the

: AX J *~
vy i nt 7 Care —— ba .

aM ~~ ch
y . } a Sade

vessel is shipping water, you don’t think it’s about to
go down just yet. You can see some useful items here,

a ae

86

so you set about gathering them up. You must Test
your Skill, if you are successful, tur to 445; but if you
fail, turn to 396.

86
What will you do now? Will you:

Start running down the left-hand

steps? Turn to 98
Start running down the right-hand

steps? Turn to 248
Throw acid at the body, if you have

some? Turn to 199

Throw the Elemental Crystals you

have at the body? Turn to 74
Throw your diamond at the body? Tur to 136
Throw a Brass Orb at the body, if

you have one? Tum to 187
Throw a red glass globe at the body,

if you have one? Tum to 113

87-89

87
You find a single Gold Piece and a sword which,
although rusty, looks as if it won't fall apart too
readily, so add it to your Possessions if you aren‘t
carrying one already. This search takes some time,
though, so you must eat a meal here. Fortunately, the
dead don’t attack you here. Now, will you:

Climb a tree and get some sleep? Turn to 276
Enter the Seft-hand barrow, if you

haven't already? Turn to 160
Enter the large central barrow? Tum to §9

88
When you touch one of the red glass globes, you feel
warmth emanating from it, but you really can’t tell
what effect it might have. If you want to smash one as
am experiment, turn to 108. If you want to take one
(only one — they are bulky!), you may do so; return to
58 to choose something else to examine.

Beyond the secret door a long tunnel stretches into
the distance; it is very dark here. Peering into the
gloom, you see a crypt chamber in the distance; the air
is dank and foul. Entering here is hardly a pleasant
go-g1

prospect; if you wish to do so, turn to 178. Alterna-
tively, you can leave this place and search elsewhere
on this dungeon level by turning to 277.

go
The moorland is very heavy underfoot, and you must
stop and eat a meal during your leg-wearying march
As you make your way further into the heart of the
island, you see that a large stone building lies to the
south-east, apparently surrounded by a thick hedge of
dark-green vegetation that is utterly unlike anything
else you’ve seen on the island so far. You also notice
that, while woodland lies to the south, it doesn’t cover
the whole width of the island and that on the far side
of the central hillock the eastern half of the southern
area seems to be swamp or marsh. So will you now

head:

North-east to the lighthouse? Turn to 333
South-east to the stone building? Turn to 18
South-west to the woodland? Turn to §7
South to the hillock? Turn to 186
For the swamp? Turn to 6

gt
The howling of the wind suddenly stops; stones and
rocks rain down on the ground and are still, The
storm is over and the spirits of the wizards are no
longer battling each other; they both look very pen-
sive. ‘A Vortex of Discord,’ Caltarelair mutters, ‘that’s
how he made us quarrel. Created an endless strife

92-93

between air and earth right in the middle of us. No
wonder we came to blows, and finally to killing.’

‘We couldn’t enter before because we were too angry
with each other ever to join and pass the portal,’
Remishaz explains. ‘As Masters of our own Elements,
we could have done so, but the discord was sown
well. And this means that the Master of Fire has
become Master of all the Elements now — or, at least,
he has mastered Air and Earth to create this Discord.
He put us at each other's throats as he murdered
Molander, Master of the Waters. Yet it was Molander
who first started playing with the forces of life, claim-
ing that water was the basic sustainer of life. It was he
who led...’ Remishaz is unable to continue and the
eyes of the spirit widen in surprise. ‘I cannot speak his
name, the Master of Fire. He has put a command on
me, and I cannot speak it.’ Turn to 179.

g2
You trigger a trap by dislodging a pile of wood; a set
of darts flies out of a wall-alcove and strikes home.
Lose 3 points from your stAMINA. Now, you can take
the staircase up (turn to 316) or down (turn to 2),

93
Rubbing the Brass Orb achieves absolutely nothing.
Roll one die; that many white magical darts fly from
the fingers of the Master of Fire. They strike you in
the chest and arms; deduct 1 point from your STAMINA
for each dart. If you are still alive, you decide to make
a dash for the wizard, so turn to 364.
94-95

‘Well met, Ralsteen,’ you say with as much friendliness
as you can muster, and the unpredictable, wild old
man springs down from the tree and shakes you
warmly by the hand.

‘My dear friend!’ he shrieks as he jumps up and down.
‘Let .me give you a gift!’ He reaches into his filthy
beard and draws forth a small pearl. ‘Purifies the
waters, you know,’ he mutters rather vacantly. You
don’t know exactly what he means by this, but you
accept his offering (add the pearl to your Possessions),
Now Ralsteen’s demeanour changes suddenly. ‘Do
you have a gift for me in return for the priceless
information I am about to impart?’ he pleads in a
whining voice. Turn to 204.

95
You throw the stuff into the water, It floats in the
middle of the inky expanse of water for a few moments,
then there is a sudden explosion of bubbles and foam,
and you see a reptilian monster of some kind snatch
the food into its toothy maw before diving back as
suddenly as it appeared! All is quiet. Will you:

Spread some slime round the edge of
the pool?

Wade through the water?

Leave this room and open the other
door? Turn to 366

Leave and search elsewhere? Turn to 106

Turn to 254
Tum to 133

96

96

The Merman leader sees the Gold Chain you are
carrying. “That was to be brought to us by our friend,
Shantizair the Wizard. He knew all about the wrongs
perpetrated by the wizards of this island and he
wished to put them right. We know his ship was lost
and that he is dead, I do not believe you obtained that
chain by killing him, and I would have it for my
people. It possesses a magic that, while useless to you,
is of value to us. May we have il?’ If you are willing
to let the Mermen have the Gold Chain, turn to 216. If
you will not give up the Gold Chain, the Mermen
swim sorrowfully away. You climb the cliffs, and now
you can head south-west to the building in the far
distance (turn to 201) or east to the black tower (turn
to 124).

97-99

97
Study the symbol carefully. Unless you can decode the
number concealed within it you won't be able to enter
the room beyond. If you think you know what the
number is, turn to the paragraph with that number. If
you can’t decipher the number, you must find some-
where else to go, so turn to 356.

98
You rush down the stairs towards the Black Skeleton.
If you drank a Blue Potion when you entered this
room, turn to 105. Otherwise, the horror is ready to
fight you as the body begins to stir on its throne; tum
to 224.

99

‘Master of Air,’ you plead, Remishaz, do not be angry
with me, I am not your enemy. I have spoken with your
apprentice, Vesperen, and he has told me that you were
not evil in life. | do not seek to harm you.’ The spirit
looks troubled, uncertain what to do. ‘T seek only to
destroy the evil here; storms and the undead have come
to my home and people, men and women have died.’

The spirit looks down at the floor, ashamed, but
Remishaz replies, ‘It was not my doing. It was the
Master of Earth, rot his guts! I will drive him down to
a final death! The spirit is almost raving, and the
suddenness of his change of mood startles you.

1 know not of him,’ you reply swiftly, 1 only know
you are not at peace. Nor will you be while evil
remains here. Help me.’
100

Remishaz looks wary and suspicious. Slowly and softly,
after thinking long and hard, he replies, ‘Then give me
something to show I can trust you, A spirit such as
myself has little I can take from you, but you must
sacrifice something to gain my trust.’ In order to
satisfy the spirit, you must give some of your own life
force to him; you must give up 1 point of both your
current and Initial SKILL, LUCK or PRESENCE. If you are
unwilling to do this, you must leave and search else-
where; turn to 23, If you are willing, make the appropri-
ate changes on your Adventure Sheet and turn to 314,

Id00

At the top of the lighthouse you fling the Magic
Stone in the air and recite the incantation on the scroll;
the yellow globe flashes into brilliant radiance. The
Magic Stone disappears in a tiny flash of its own light
{remove it from your Possessions), Once again, seamen
will be protected by this beacon from the hazards of
the rocks. Gain 1 LucK point and 1 point of PRESENCE.
You head down the stairs to ground level _.. and
there’s something awaiting you. ]t looks like a small,
spiny-backed dragon with a forked tail and very fine,
rainbow-coloured wings. It’s about 20 centimetres long
from its pert little snout to the tip of its tail. Buzzing
in the air, the tiny Pocket Dragon plants a message
telepathically into your mind. You fool, it says, now
you've announced to the necromancers that there’s someone
on their island. It buzzes angrily for a minute, then it
calms down. Oh well, I suppose you're going to need all
the help you can get, it continues. Let me tell you a bit
about the place... Will you:

101-102
Listen to the Pocket Dragon? Turn to 14
Leave and investigate the wreck in
the bay? Tum to 291
Go down and investigate the
trapdoor, if you haven’t already? Tum to 261
Leave and find somewhere else on
the island to visit? Tum to 7o

IOI
The stairs suddenly incline at an angle to create a
smooth slope. You slip and go clattering down the
stairs, falling heavily on the hard surface of the passage-
way below; deduct 3 points from your sTAMINA.
What's worse, the noise of your untimely arrival has
alerted the guardian, From your right a creature comes
whistling along the passage; it seems to be nothing
more than a whirling vortex of air and dust, but it
begins to buffet you with blows and wind pressure —
and, what’s worse, it crackles with static electricity!
Though not as strong as an Air Elemental, this creature
is still a dangerous opponent. If the Pneumozone has an
Attack Strength of 21 in any round when you fight it, it
knocks you down so that you cannot attack it in the
next Attack Round (it automatically attacks you success-
fully and inflicts 2 points of sTAMINA damage on you).

PNEUMOZONE SKILL 9 STAMINA 9

If you win, tum to 144
102

The monster's claws extend and stretch outwards,
sweeping an arc in the air, and, on the ground, skeletal
103-104

hands rise to claw at your legs, hampering your
movement and making it hard for you to keep your
balance. You must deduct 2 points from your sxILt for
the duration of the combat you now face. Turn to 137.

103

Removing the sword from the clips which hold it in
place causes a sealing plug in the wall to be prised
loose, and a stream of black powder flows out, pouring
over the mantel and into the fire. It explodes very
noisily on impact, and you get a faceful of smoke,
ashes and flame. Deduct 3 points from your STAMINA
(4 points if you have the disease, Lung Rot). You think
you can hear a gloating laugh coming from somewhere
.., The sword looks very well crafted but, alas, it’s
just an ordinary sword. Now you can force open the
chest if you haven't already done so (turn to 115) or
leave this room and search elsewhere (turn to 79).

104
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 230. If you are
Unlucky, you find nothing and you leave this room,
so will you:

Leave the monastery? Turn to 281

Head along the passage to the other
door, if you haven't already been
there?

Head on up the stairs?

Tum to 25§§
Tum to 302

105-108

105
You speed past the Black Skeleton, managing to avoid
its blow; astonishingly, once you are past it, the horror
does not follow you but becomes inert once more!
The effects of the Blue Potion are wearing off now
and you will not be able to gain the combat bonuses
from your potion in the fight to come, but at least
you're closing in on the Master of Fire, Turn to 364

”

106
Choose somewhere else to search (where you have
not been before) in this dungeon level, Will you try:

The central door in the main passage? Turn to 371
The left-hand door in the main

passage? Turn to 452
The right-hand door in the main

passage? Turn to 289
The right-hand side-passage? Turn to 78
The left-hand side-passage? Turn to 219

107
‘There should be healing magic at the shrine, It’s on
the south-westem tip of the island. You have to go
through the marshes, and the Swordplatns, to get
there.’ Return to 394.

108
When you throw the globe on the ground, it breaks
and the heavy red gas sinks on to the stone, forming a
circular puddle of red, gelatinous slime that sticks to
the floor like glue. If you want to take the other red
109-110

globe, you may do so. Retum to 58 to choose some-

thing else to check.

Tog

You find a small rosewood cabinet at the far end of
the room and open its panelled doors. Inside stands an
array or crystal glasses, a decanter of brandy, and a
full bottle of rich, heavy, port wine. Looking at them,
the word ‘poison’ rises unbidden to your mind, but the
drinks may be fortifying and refreshing ... What will
you do? Will you:

Drink some brandy? Tum to £23
Drink some port? Turn to 203
Bum the painting if you haven't

already done so? Turn to 33§
Leave and try elsewhere? Turn to 79

110
You utter the word, ‘Elementarae’, and the door opens
You step into a blue, hazy light and feel a momentary
ringing sensation in your ears and a slight disorientation.
You half fall; regaining your balance, you look around
to find yourself in a library, standing just outside a
magic circle. The room is full of shelves, groaning under
the weight of leather-bound tomes; a comfortable
armchair and a pair of ornate writing desks complete
the furnishings. Beside the armchair is a small table
bearing a decanter of red wine. The far end of the
room has no wall, simply a screen of blue light. Will
you:

Investigate the screen of light? Turn to 3§7

TII~113

Sit down, take a rest and drink some
wine? Turn to 306

Search through the desks? Turn to 377
Examine some of the bookcases? Turn to 13
Walk back into the magic circle? Turn to 337

III
You are fortunate; as you get up and shake the grass
off your blanket, you spot a nest of large eggs near
by. Raw eggs may not be ideal as a food, but they‘re
nutritious and there are enough here for 2 meals (add
2 to your Provisions). Gain 1 Luck point for this
fortunate find. Tum to 212

112
If you have oil of any kind (olive oil, Ethereal Oil or oil
in your lantern) you can squirt some into the lock (the
oil must be removed from your Possessions); if you
have a bag of metal spikes and rods, you can jemmy
the door open. But you must still Test your Skill, If
you're successful, you get out and slam the door
behind you, wedging it shut with whatever comes to
hand; find somewhere else to search by turning to 231
If you fail, the amoeba advances quickly on you and
forces you to fight, so turn to 189. If you don’t have
any oil or spikes, you'll have to fight anyway!

113
The red globe explodes and covers the body in a
hligree of red, sticky strands. When you come to fight
the Master of Fire, you may subtract 1 point from his
Attack Strength. Turn to 17,
a

er,
— ~
- pp rs
= “4
“ 1 whi ON ‘ - » = . !
~ ~ .

“ ; > “s _ :
- ~ be» - a .

‘ > . 5 é, a4 <> re
> wee. = E | ai ur I ~ >

T1g—11§

114

You have opened the door to the Captain’s cabin. It
has teak-lined walls, a magnificent mahogany desk and
chair, a globe of the world of Titan, navigational
charts on the walls, and ornaments and items you
want to start inspecting ... except that the remains of
the Captain bar your way! Foaming at the mouth and
snarling with fury, his decaying form lunges towards
you in the ragged remains of his once-resplendent
uniform. You can avoid this combat by slamming the
door and fastening it shut; if you wish to do this, turn
to 3§6.

GREATER GHOUL SKILL 9 STAMINA 11

If the Greater Ghoul hits you three times, turn to 22; if
you win before the Greater Ghoul has managed to hit
you three times, turn to 236,

115

You insert a knife into the chest and prise it open, half
surprised that no poison darts come flying out at you,
but the surprise inside might be worse. Lying in the
chest is a tiny bronze manikin; it is crafted in the shape
of a faceless human form and begins to increase in size
as soon as you open the lid. As it grows, its metal
hands reach out towards you. If you want to try to
close the chest before the thing can get out, turn to 9.
If you want to attack the manikin straight away, turn
to 268. If you want to let the manikin out and just
wait and see what happens, turn to 369. If you want
to run away, turn to 46,
116-120

116
Unfortunately your action triggers the summoning
spell that has been cast on the pentagram, Lose 1
LUCK point and turn to 392.

117
You drink the Blue Potion before the Sceptre can
summon up its magical forces, then you race across
the ether and prepare to strike at it! Turn to 257, and
you will be able to gain the full combat benefits that
come from drinking tHe potion.

118
The hermit does not seem to react too kindly to you
as he springs down from his lofty perch. 1 require
some wonderful gifts in return for the help I have to
give,’ he snivels. Turn to 204, and you must offer the
hermit TWO items from the list there in return for any
information he may give.

11g
As you push open the door, the magical ward here
discharges an immense force of magical cold, Quite
literally it turns your blood to ice and your body-
tissues to frozen slush, No one can stand such a shock
and live. Your adventure ends here

120
The wizard is busy casting a spell; you are in the
middle of throwing some acid at him. Work out
Attack Strengths for yourself and the Master of Fire
(who has sxizt 11). If you have the higher Attack

L2I-123

Strength, turn to 271. If he has the higher Attack
Strength, turn to 8x.

121

Within the crystalline chamber beyond the door is a
howling whirlwind of chaos. Rocks and stones are
being whipped around like a great, fragmented
spinning-top within a hurricane of airy force. As the
spirits of the wizards gaze into this flux of magical
energies, they grow angry again and you can see that
they are preparing to attack each other You have to
get in and somehow deal with the mayhem in this
room. If you have both a Tiger Eye stone and a Topaz
gem, you know how many facets the Topaz has.
Multiply that number by ten, and tum to the paragraph
with the same number. If you don’t have both these
items, turn to 378.

122
Carefully examining the trees, shrubs, grasses and
flowers, you find absolutely nothing at all. Unfortu-
nately, you do manage to overlook a rabbit hole ...
and you twist your ankle as you step into it. You fall
heavily and it’s a nasty sprain. Deduct 2 points from
your STAMINA. Now you can leave the woodlands
after all this time-wasting (tum to 363) or just hang
around in the area to see if anything happens (turn to

249).

123
You made the wrong choice. The brandy feels fiery in
your throat, but you begin to gag and choke as the
124-125

Poison it contains seeps into your entrails. Your adven-
ture ends here

124

The dark tower is now clearly visible in the distance and
it will not take you more than an hour or so to reach it,
However, to your right you notice that the ground has
given way and opens into a rough and rock-strewn
chute, leading down to a darkened tunnel below ground
level. You may clamber down if you wish, although it
would be safer if you Had a rope. Will you:

Climb down the chute? Tum to 458
Use a rope to descend the chute? Turn to 210
Ignore the chute and continue

eastwards? Turn to 334

125

You draw your sword and approach the mutated
monster. It spits at you and the gobbet of corrosive
acid hits you on the bare flesh; deduct 2 points from
your STAMINA. As you slit its throat, the monster
groans in relief at being released from its torment and
pain. Gain 1 point of PRESENCE, Now you can search
the room, if you haven't before (turn to 1§1); other-
wise, you return to the main passageway and search
somewhere else (turn to 106)

126—127

126
You can rub the Brass Orb (turn to 93), throw it at the
Master of Fire (turn to 68) or smash the Orb at your
own feet (turn to 4).

. 127
You are driven forward by sheer force of will, and you
realize with a cry of triumph that the Spectre has
descended to using a cheap trick — an illusion! Your
mind is not fooled. You rush through the ring of
illusion as the Spectre wails its frustration and rage;
turn to 2§7

~, ie “S44 = =
ana LOVES PFET eres terer4nIT Tee i errater rs ree

128-129

128

You creep towards the black tower and observe it
carefully from behind rock cover. There is a main door
before which stand a pair of two-headed, mutated
Lizard Men, bearing great clubs. They are ugly crea-
tures, with oversized arms and shoulders and knobbed
ridges of bone along their backs and heads — they
would make dangerous combat opponents! Sneaking
round the perimeter, you notice that there is a smaller
door at the back of the tower which you might be
able to approach unseen — if the creature flying over
the tawer doesn’t spot you and dive to attack, of
course. Will you:

Make for the large front door? Turn to 226

Go round to the small back door? Turn to 270

Back away and search the cliffs? Turn to 24
129

‘There were five of them altogether. Very secretive, never
seen around the island. Their sniffling little apprentice did
their legwork for them, got the food and clothes from the
boats that came here with that air spirit, can’t remember
its name now. Mischievous and difficult thing, but it’s
trapped at the Circle and it would serve you if you
overcame it. Used to be a wizard itself, 1 believe. The
wizards stuck to their dungeons below their black tower.
Guarded with magical traps, of course. Mind you, they're
all dead now, one way or another, although there’s not
one of them at peace. One of them drew down the Great
Undead, as I said. Don’t want to think about what
happened to him.’ The hermit shudders. Retum to 394.
130
If you have a container of slime to give to the
creature, it will happily engulf it and reward you with
a glutinous belch. Anything else you may offer it will
be unacceptable, and it will attack you (tum to 189). If
you manage to distract the amoeba’s attention with
food, you can now try to open the door in order to
get out; fur to 112.

131
A gout of thick, glutitous acid spurts from the wizard’s
fingertips and comes flying towards you. Test your
Skill. If you are successful, you manage to mun so fast
that only a splash of the stuff hits you; deduct point
from your sTAMINA, If you fail, you are hit across the
chest and arms by a great gobbet, and you must lose 4
STAMINA points, Turn to 98.

132
You whisper the name, ‘Molander’, and you hold the
sapphire in the hand which you put on the plaque. The
gargoyle-face breaks into a leering smile and a haze of
magical energies plays about it, bathing your hand in
glowing warmth; regain 2 sTAMINA points, The door
opens, revealing the large room beyond; turn to 383.

133
Wading cautiously, you get about half-way across

when a large, bony head breaks the surface of the
water and a seemingly endless reptilian neck rears up
and coils above you, ready to strike. The Great Eel is a
tough, evil thing, its mottled body pure muscle and its

134-135

jaws capable of snapping one of your limbs in half
with the power of its bite. Up to your chest in water,
youre at a real disadvantage here; you must subtract 2
from your Attack Strength during this combat.

GREAT MORAY EEL SKILL 8 STAMINA 11

If you win, you wade through the water and try to
open the door on the far side of the room; turn to 153.

134

As you turn to mun, a hail of flying stones and rocks
slams into your body. Deduct 5 points from your
STAMINA as you slam the brown door shut behind
you. You must now return to the main passage and
choose somewhere else to search, so tum to 23. If you
want to return here, you will be able to do so, but in
the mean time the Bone Golem will have become
enchanted and reanimated, and you will have to face it
again!

135
You pick up from the ground a small gold chain that
the Pocket Dragon has on its crushed body. It is
divided by beads into eight sections, each of a dozen
links (make a note of this). Now will you:

Investigate the wreck in the bay, if

you haven't already? Tum to 291
Open the trapdoor on the way out,

if you haven't before? Tum to 261
Leave and find another area of the

island to visit? Turn to 7o
136-139

136
The diamond shatters as it passes over the ring of
magical fire and shards fly into the body. Make a note
that the Master of Fire must lose 3 points from his
STAMINA because of this action, then turn to 17.

137

You dodge and weave to avoid the flailing, razor-
sharp claws of the undead monstrosity before you,
and to keep away from its noxious, stinking breath.
Fight this horror nornially, but with one exception: if
when you roll the dice for the thing’s Attack Strength
you roll 10 or higher (before you add its sxtcx), its
foul breath weakens you and you must deduct 1 from
your Attack Strength for the rest of the combat.

BARROW GUARDIAN © skILLQ ~— STAMINA 12

If you win, you still have a prcblem: the Guardian's
breath has infected you with Lung Rot (record this on
your Adventure Sheet), Turn to 307.

138
‘Don’t waste your time up there — there are only
guards and there’s absolutely nothing of value to you.’
Return to 48.

139
You help the evil, brutal Shark-Kin kill the Mermen,

and the monsters prevail. They feast on Merfolk flesh
and they feast on human flesh, too! Your adventure
ends here.

140

140
Most of the potions and bottles are unlabelled, and
the contents of several have evaporated or decayed.
You don’t much fancy trying them, and the glassware
here is too filthy for you to use. There are two
exceptions, however. One is a Potion of Luck; you can
drink this at any time, except during a combat, and it
will restore 1-3 lost Luck points (roll one die and
divide by 2, rounding fractions up). The other is a vial,
still clamped within a complex construction of glass-
ware and metal; it contains a syrupy blue liquid from
which drifts a pleasing smell of coriander, turmeric and
lemongrass. If you want to take the Blue Potion, you
will have to Test your Skill. If you are successful, turn
to 157. If you fail, tum to 182. If you would rather not
attempt this, turn to 58.
141-143

141

You amble through the woodland for an hour or two,
so you must eat another meal. You find yourself
walking into an almost perfectly circular clearing in the
woods, where only lush green grass and some wood-
land flowers grow. Before you stands a simple stone
archway. Filled with anticipation, you walk through
the archway ... but nothing special happens and you
find yourself standing on the verdant, lush grass on
the other side of it. Walking around and exploring the
clearing doesn’t reveal anything interesting either.
What will you do now?

Leave the woodland? Tum to 363

Explore the clearing very thoroughly? Tum to 122

Just wait? Tum to 249
142

The wizard is in the middle of casting a spell; you are
preparing to throw some acid at him. Work out Attack
Strengths for yourself and the Master of Fire (who has
SKILL 14). If you have the higher Attack Strength, turn
to 391. If he has the higher Attack Strength, turn
to 332.

14
Searching thoroughly, you find nothing of obvious
value, but this action takes time and you must eat a
meal here. If you want to try to clean up the shrine,
turn to 195. If you would rather leave and set off to
the east, turn to 390.
144-145

Tan]

You are standing in the middle of another long passage-
way which is magically illuminated. To your left, the
stone of the walls is brown-tinged; this brown stone
continues until it disappears in a vaporous yellow haze
in the far distance. The wall facing you has two doors
in it: straight ahead of you there is a black wooden
door with iron hinges and lock; to the left, between
you and the yellow haze, there is a door made of
reddish wood, not unlike rosewood. To your right, the
passage ends at yet another door, this time of brownish
wood. Diagonally across from you, stone steps lead
downwards. Will you:

Open the black door? Tum to 381
Open the brown door? Turn to 215
Open the rosewood door? Tum to 71
Descend the stairs? Turn to 322
Head for the yellow haze in the

distance? Tum to 340

145
You salvage a glass bottle, a rope and a sealed vial
containing some gunky green cream (make a note of
this paragraph number as the one where you found it).
Now, will you:

Check the magical symbol, if you

haven't already? Tum to 97
Open the other cabin door, if you

haven't already? Turn to 114
Leave the ship? Tur to 272

146=149

146

The plain wooden door here has a spider's web pattern
traced across it in a fine silvery metal; the tracery
appears to be growing on the wood like mould on
stale bread. You cannot be certain, but you think that
it is glowing faintly and you suspect a magical trap
may be laid upon this door. If you wish to open it
anyway, tum to 349. If you want to open the door
opposite you instead, if you have not done so before,
turn to 2x1. If you prefer to open the door opposite
the one through which you entered, turn to 3x0.

147
Fortunately you chance upon the fork in the trail.
Now, will you take the south-western route (tum to
69) or the south-eastern fork (turn to 372)?

148

As you are striding across the room, a large hump
suddenly appears in the pile of sacking — something
undemeath it is getting to its feet! You dash towards
the wooden staircase; Test your Skill. If you are success-
ful, you make it to the staircase before the animating
Skeleton Warrior guard can get to you, and you force
open the trapdoor; tum to 341. If you fail (or if you
choose to fight the Warrior anyway), the Skeleton
Warrior cuts you off; tum to 171.

149
Unfortunately for your plans, when you fling the acid
it simply floats in mid-air, travelling far too slowly
ever to catch the Dire Spectre unawares. The shrivelled
150-152

form gloats and a terrible ball of blackness rises from
its shrunken chest into its hands, and is flung across
the ether towards you. If you have a Diamond, total
the individual digits that comprise the number of
carats within it (so that, if it has 132 carats, add 1 +
3 + 2 = 6) and hum to the paragraph whose number
is the same as that total. Otherwise, turn to 217.

150
The flames do not harm you; the Fire Ruby glows and
draws the magical strength of the flames into itself. A
wave of powerful magical energy seems to be transmit-
ted from the Fire Ruby into your own body; regain 3
points of STAMINA and gain 1 point of PRESENCE too!
Now turn to 196.

msi

Searching through the room, you notice various small
items that were left over when the restraints were
installed: some lengths of leather strapping, a few
metal bolts and the like. The only article that looks
useful, though, is a bag full of metal spikes and rods,
so you take these. Now you can either kill the creature
in this room, if you haven't done so already (turn to
125), or leave this chamber and search elsewhere in
the dungeon (turn to 106).

152
You are just coming back to the surface after your last
dive when a pair of rubbery tentacles rises from the
water and a jet of filthy blue-black gunk is squirted

towards your face by a Squirting Octopus! You must

153-154

Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, the gunk misses you.
If you are Unlucky, you are splashed and partially
blinded by the foul, inky mess, and you must deduct 1
point from your Attack Strength when you fight the
Octopus. If you have a fishing net and want to use it
here, tum to 305. Otherwise, turn to 77.

153
You touch the door to push it open. If you have a
sapphire, multiply the number of facets the gem has
by seven, then tum to the paragraph with that number.
Otherwise, turn to 191.

154
You reach the T-junction. Looking around, you see
that there is a door along both the right-hand and the
left-hand passage; before you, a short hall leads to a
staircase which ascends to a landing. Will you:

Go to and open the right-hand door? Turn to 255
Make for and open the left-hand

door? Tum to 61
Climb the staircase? Turn to 302
155-156

155
You begin to poke through what you now see is a

nest and get a quick glimpse of shiny objects and the
glint of glass. Suddenly you hear the beating wings
above you and look up to see a massive bird swooping
through one of the arches, down towards you! It must
have a wing-span of at least six metres and its talons
are cruelly curved and barbed. The Giant Roc fights
viciously to protect its nest, and the draught from the
downbeat of its wings is so strong that it threatens to
knock you off balance; subtract 1 fom your Attack
Strength during this combat.

| GIANT ROC SKILL 9 STAMINA 14

If you win, you may search the nest. There is a single
large egg in it, which you can take for food (add 3 to
your Provisions). You also find 3 Gold Pieces and a
glass bottle; much of the glinting and gleaming you
saw came from shiny pebbles the Roc had collected, so
you discard them. Now you descend the tower and
make for the dungeons. Turn to 2.

156
‘Old Father Honorton and his monks were simple
souls. They looked after the lighthouse the wizards set
up with an Earth Elemental lifting stone, and they
installed a magical light which the monks maintained.
Most of the time the monks just tended their plants

dN <a , P, dy ae and studied ... oh, whatever it is monks study, |
epee Pas a STG ° ET suppose. The mad wizards slaughtered the lot of them,
YEN fe 7. ae” of course. But one of them desperately wanted some-

thing the monks had. I don’t know what it was, or
t57—159

whether he managed to get it from them. Retum
to 394.

157

You manage to extricate the Blue Potion from the
apparatus without breaking its container. You can
drink this potion at any time, even at the very begin-
ning of a combat. You don’t know what it does, so you
will have to take pot luck with it. If and when you
decide to drink it, you can find out its effects by
noting the paragraph you are on at the time and
turing to 237 (make a note of this). For now, turn
to §8.

158
You must Test your Skill. If you are successful, you
descend safely. If you fail, you lose your footing and
fall part of the way; deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA. Turn to 210.

159
The manikin is struck by a couple of fiery missiles
from the room, and it jolts into action, striking out
with its metallic fists to attack you! You have to
destroy it while simultaneously trying to avoid the
spitting missiles that are showering down from the
ceiling — and it isn’t easy. You may choose a strategy
to employ. You can fight all-out against the manikin;
in this case, if it rolls 18 or higher for its Attack
Strength, you get hit by a fiery missile and have to
lose 1 STAMINA point. If you try to dodge the missiles
you will not be harmed by them, but you must

160

subtract 1 from your Attack Strength when fighting
the manikin. Choose your strategy and fight your
enemy! Each time the manikin strikes you, roll one die.
If you roll a 5 or 6, the manikin will inflict 3 points of
STAMINA damage upon you, rather than the usual 2.

BRONZE MANIKIN SKILL 8 STAMINA 9

If you win, tum to 194.

160

There must be a gap somewhere in the earthen roof of
the barrow, because a little moonlight glints through
into it, and even without a lantem you can make out
some gleaming silvery metal at the far end of the
barrow. You stride forward to investigate further ~
but, as you do so, a pillar of flame roars up directly in
front of you and attacks you! This attack is very
sudden and takes you completely by surprise. Test
your Skill. If you fail, the Fire Elemental hits you before
you can react; lose 2 points fom your STAMINA. If
you succeed, you react swiftly enough to avoid this
sudden attack. Now, do you have a Magic Sword? If
you have, turn to 269. If you haven't, turn to 330.
161=165

rox
‘All the wizards could command Elementals, but only
the Master of Fire now has a physical body which
allows him to-do so. But there may still be Elementals
in the lower dungeons, roaming in bounded areas,
Avoid them if you can. They don't guard anything
you could use.’ Return to 48,

The alligator sinks its sharply pointed teeth into your
thigh! You scream in agony and faint from shock.
Your adventure ends here.

163
If one of your chosen actions was coating yourself
with Ethereal Oil, tum to 312. If this was not one of
your actions, turn to 278.

164-166

164

The Giant Skeleton turns to fight you with its great
sword. Its face is an expressionless grin and its bony
claws grip the weapon tightly. The other Giant Skel-
eton is rushing to help its fellow, but you fight just
one opponent for the first four Attack Rounds. There-
after you must fight both together (unless by then you
have destroyed the first one already), rolling dice for
separate Attack Strengths for all three combatants,
with only the highest Attack Strength resulting in a
damaging blow.

SKILL STAMINA
First GIANT SKELETON 8 9
Second GIANT SKELETON 8 8

If you win, you open the unlocked door to the
building and enter. Turn to 286.

165
You don’t have a focus of magic from the force of
Elemental Water and you don’t know the name of the
wizard who lived here. The gargoyle-face turns into
that of a monstrous demon and its fangs rip into your
arm. You roll, screaming, on the floor. Your adventure
ends here,

166
The storm breaks directly overhead. A jagsed bolt of
lightning, arcs down from the black clouds filling the
angry sky and smashes into the ground close to the
lighthouse. It would obviously be very unwise to seek
167-169

shelter there! You are forced to ignore the storm and
set off into the open moorland to the south-west.
From here you can make your way to a part of the
island you haven't previously visited. Will you head
for:

A stone building to the east? Turn to 18
Woodland to the south-west? Turn to §7
A hillock due south? Turn to 186
Marshland further south? Tum to 6

167
You gain 1 point of PRESENCE and 1 point of Luck for
freeing the spirits; this LucK point increases both your
current and Initial Luck (to a maximum of 12). Now it
is time to seek Molander’s realm; turn to 322.

168
Leaving the hermit behind, you can now either try
exploring the woodlands further (turn to 141) or leave
them altogether (turn to 363)

169

The monster follows you as you search desperately
for some other exit ... there isn’t one. You have never
received any training in the habits of amoebae, but
you ate getting a very definite feeling, from the way
it’s beginning to undulate more and more violently,
that it just may be growing hostile. You can try
feeding it (turn to 130) or attacking it (turn to 189).

17O-I71

170
What the monster was looking for in the chest surely
can’t have been there, since the contents have been
strewn around everywhere and are now disfigured
through being splattered with acid. The chest is
empty, but you spot that its base looks a little higher
than it should be — it has a false bottom! Eagerly you
prise up the panel in the bottom of the chest and
find a secret compartment sunk into the solid wood
surround. There is a small purple cloth here and
wrapped within it are two crystals. Gain 1 Luck
point and 2 point of presence for this important
find. You sense that these crystals are magical, but
you know nothing yet as to their purpose or powers.
One is a Sapphire, a fine blue gem with exactly so
facets. The other is a Topaz. elegantly cut and with
24 facets (make a note of the number of facets each
crystal has). You also find a small, glowing stone,
with a hundred speckles of light on its surface, and
with it a magical scroll on which is inscribed ‘Incanta-
tion of Light’; you also find a silver key fashioned in
the shape of a bone (add the Skeleton Key to your
Possessions),

You sense that the crystals are important, and you
must find out how to use them. Excitedly, you head
off down the stairs. If you have fought an Elemental,
turn to 281. If you haven't, turn to 31.

IFI
The Skeleton Warrior has been enchanted to be resist-
ant to edged weapons. A sword (or a Magic Sword)
172

will cause only 1 point of damage to it for each hit
inflicted. If you have a good, blunt stone axe, this will
cause normal damage {deduct 2 points from your
opponent's STAMINA per hit),

SKELETON WARRIOR SKILE 8 STAMINA 6

If you win, you can either continue upwards, opening the
trapdoor (turn to 341), or return to the ground floor,
then descend the staircase to the dungeons (turn to 2),

172
Some of the wizard’s magical scrawlings you cannot
decipher, of course, but you are able to make out
several things of interest. The name of the Master of
Fire is Ziraphelis, and the diarist notes that he had
been summoning very powerful Ethereal Undead
which might threaten the minds and souls of all the
wizards here. You learn that the Master of Waters
himself recorded many experiments with simple,
watery life-forms — slimes, algae and amoebae — and
also with mutations created magically and by grafting
operations. You feel no sorrow for the Master of
Water's death at the hands of the Master of Fire; the
writer records cruel and wicked experiments without
any concern for the fate of the wretched creatures
upon whom he inflicted so much suffering. Final para-
graphs in the notebooks record increasing paranoia
about Ziraphelis, stating that the Master of Fire is no
longer seen by the other wizards and that they all fear
what his research may have uncovered. There is also a
specific reference to a Brass Orb, which the Master of
Air has hidden somewhere on the island with a guard-

172

ian spirit. Apparently the Orb is capable of creating a
barrier against magic if it is smashed on the ground.
There is much here to think about — but also much to
do. Will you open the door across the study, if you
haven't already done so (tum to 317), leave the study
and open the door just beyond the water-filled room
(turn to 366) or leave this area and search elsewhere
(turn to 106)?

173-175

173
You set about attacking one of the Shark-Kin, and it
turns to rend you with its viciously serrated teeth and
sharp-pronged trident! Because you are fighting, waist
deep, in the water, you must subtract 1 point from
your Attack Strength during this combat.

SHARK-KIN SKILL 9 STAMINA 9

If you win, the fight is practically over; the Mermen
are driving the few remaining Shark-Kin away, having
slain most of them. Roll two dice; if the total is less
than, or equal to, your PRESENCE, turn to 2§3. If the
total is greater than your PRESENCE, turn to 347.

174

You coat your sword with the venom which possesses
a strange, blue-white glow in the ether. The Dire
Spectre stares at you mutely; even in the deeply
sunken recesses of its eye-sockets, you believe you can
detect a flicker of apprehension in its gaze! Now you
may drink a Blue Potion, if you have one (tum to 117),
or run at the Dire Spectre to attack it with a weapon
(turn to 54),

175
The book tells you to look for a particular Pitcher
Plant with golden fluid in its flower-vase; most of
these plants contain a stinking liquid with dead insects
floating in it, but one has a clear golden fluid which
you could drain off into a bottle or flask by cutting a
small notch in the base of the flower. The book tells
you that the liquid helps protect you from magical fire,
176-177

so there’s not much point in drinking it; you should
bottle it. If you have an empty glass bottle, you can
use this. If you have Monks’ Herbal Liqueur or olive
oil, you can pour the liquid out of its container and
use that bottle, but you must remove the liquid first
(drinking it if you wish). Add Pitcher Plant Liquid to
your Possessions if you decide to collect this; you can
use it at any time (except during a combat) by pouring
it over your body, when it will completely neutralize
any damage to your sTAMINA from the first attack,
spell or trap by fire which you subsequently face. Turn
to 283.

176

You cautiously tap a pane of glass in the tank, creating a
crack; the glass quickly ruptures and gallons of foul-
smelling algal residues begin to pour into the room. The
stink is truly disgusting and you stagger away, com-
pletely nauseated. You must deduct 1 point from your
Attack Strength in the first combat in which you are
involved after leaving here. You reel out of the room,
just able to keep your last meal down. Tum to 106.

177
You draw your weapon to attack the Spirit, If you do
not have a magic sword, you cannot affect it and you
must flee after it has struck you and you have lost 2
points from your STAMINA; turn to 20. Otherwise, do
your best to vanquish this strange opponent.

BARROW SPIRIT SKILL 10 STAMINA 8

If you win, turn to 36r.

178-179

178

There is a strong sense of psychic disturbance in the
crypt, an atmosphere of unease among the tombs. You
notice that something has scratched at one of them:
there are claw marks on the tomb’s stone lid, which is
slightly askew. Symbols of the good gods of Titan are
etched on its surface. The other tombs are all sealed.
Will you:

Prise open the lid of the tomb before

you? Turn to 223
Open one of the other tombs? Turn to 353
Leave the crypt? Turn to 277

E79

The spirits are silent for a moment. 1 think we can
leave this place now,’ Caltarelair whispers. ‘I am not
held prisoner here any longer.’ Remishaz nods his
agreement, ‘Our spirits will fade, friend. Go down the
steps to Molander’s dungeons if you seek to destroy
the evils here. There is much of his alchemy there, I
think. Beware the mutated and wretched things he left
behind, beware his own Spectre...’ The spirits are
fading now. You can keep them here a little longer, to
tell you more, if you are prepared to sacrifice a point
of your PRESENCE to do so. If you are not, it’s time to
go down to the next dungeon level; turn to 322. If
you are willing to sacrifice a point of presENce, decide
whether you want the spirits to tell you more about
Molander {tum to 28) or about the Master of Fire
himself (turn to 192).
180—182

180

You enter the spartan kitchens of the monastery. If
you need food, you can cut the rind off some mouldy
cheeses and take same jars of bottled fruit to replenish
your supplies (add up to 4 to your Provisions total).
There are steps leading down to a door opposite you;
if you want to go down the stairs, turn to 45. Alterna-
tively you can leave, re-enter the passage and open
the door opposite if you haven't done this before (turn
to 398) or set off down the passage towards the T-
junction (turn to 154).

181
A great surge of energy runs through your body! You
may add i to your Attack Strength during combats
for the rest of this adventure! Turn to 245.

182

At a crucial moment you fumble and break a connect-
ing length of glass tubing; the apparatus tips over and
liquid splashes everywhere. Unfortunately, this mix is
flammable, and a line of fire shoots out along the full
length of the table and spreads rapidly across the
floor! You will have to get out soon; turn to 58, but
now you may investigate only one more previously
unexplored possibility from the list there before smoke
and fire force you out of this chamber!

183

183

‘You have to pass through them if you want to go
south, the bay to the west isn’t navigable. The wizards
left it like that, they didn’t change the currents, they
wanted to keep unwanted intruders out. The people
from the mainland knew not to try to land there. The
marshes are dangerous. There’s poison and _ nasty,
creeping snakes and insects which bite and make you
sick, hostile monkey-like things, and Lizard Men —-
don’t anger them! But watch out for the plants like
vases, you might be surprised...’ The hermit giggles
feebly. ‘Oh, the mists, the mists!’ Return to 394.

~ BO) err rrreveetrerrrrer

184-185

184

As you continue fighting the Homunculus, the young
apprentice casts a spell. He conjures three magical
darts which streak through the air towards you; each
inflicts 1 point of damage to your STAMINA. If you are
still alive, you continue fighting the Homunculus,
which prevents you attacking its master. The appren-
tice hovers nervously in the doorway, preparing to
cast another spell. When you have slain the Homuncu-
lus, you can attack the young man (tum to 395) or
you may try talking to him (turn to 262).

185

This door is very strong and you have to push hard to
force it open. Within is a bare-walled, stone chamber: a
pillar of stone stands inside a magical circle which
stretches as wide as the room itself. At the far side of
the circle is a large cupboard. You will have to step
inside the circle to reach the contents of the cupboard,
if you wish to search there. As you inch into the
room, the pillar of stone animates and a great, two-
fisted Earth Elemental stands before you, poised aggres-
sively for action, should you enter the circle. Now will
you:

Step into the magical circle? Turn to 205
Leave here and open the door along

the left-hand passage, if you

haven't already? Turn to 252
Return to the main passageway and

search somewhere else? Tum to 23
186

186

You tramp across the moorland, and after an hour or
so you come to the base of a grassy hillock which
stands in almost the exact centre of the island. You
climb it in order to get a good look around; you can
see almost all of Solani from here. To the north there
is much open woodland, and to the north-east you can
see a lighthouse tower. Also to the north-east, but
much closer, is a stone building not far from a small
bay. To the west is woodland; you can see a couple of
areas where the treeline thins out, suggesting a clear-
ing, perhaps even a building. To the south you see
that marshland covers the island virtually from the
west to the east, with a small rivulet meandering from
a bay to the south-west. Slightly to the east of south
and far in the distance there seems to be a tower of
some kind, but you can make out no detail of it from
here. On the western side of the southern half of the
island, a large expanse of bare and blasted ground
with scrubby plant growth extends, and there may be
some kind of building on the very south-westem tip
of the island, but it’s too far away for you to be sure.

187-188

Your spying out of the land is rudely interrupted! In a
ring surrounding you, bones begin to thrust up out of
the ground, and skeletons start to assemble, Bony
hands link up with skeletal arms, while ribs and limbs
crawl jerkily towards spines and skulls. Will you stay
and fight these undead creatures (turn to 389) or make
a run for it (turn to 370)?

187
The Orb sails through the air, strikes the chair and
shatters. A ring of multicoloured magical energy
springs up round the Master of Fire’s body, which
jerks into life. You have just thrown away one of your
mast powerful protections. Turn to £7,

188

The humidity on this journey is exhausting; deduct 4
points from your sTAMINA due to dehydration. You
manage to avoid a hissing, yellow-and-green snake
which darts at you from a clump of ferns, so gain 1
LUCK point! Then you spot a cluster of Pitcher Plants:
tall, exotic, thick-stemmed plants with a large encircling
Hower that resembles a vase or pitcher. If you possess
a book which refers to Pitcher Plants, tum to the
paragraph with the same number as the page referring
to them. If you don’t have this book, turn to 283.

189-190

189

The Amoeba is a very unusual enemy. Slicing into its
body with a knife or a sword causes only 1 point of
damage to its srAMINA per blow, since its membrane
swiftly covers up such wounds. Even an axe is no
more effective than this. If you have a shield, you can
use this as a weapon, sandwiching the Amoeba be-
tween the metal of the shield and the stone of the
floor and inflicting 2 points of damage to its STAMINA
per hit (but you must deduct 1 from your Attack
Strength if you choose to use the shield as a weapon).
However, the Amoeba itself has so many pseudopods
and suckers that it can inflict serious damage on you.
If the Amoeba has the higher Attack Strength in any
Attack Round, roll one die and divide the number
rolled by two, rounding fractions up; that is the
number of points you lose from your STAMINA
through the Amoeba’s attacks. If you roll 6 on this
dice roll, the Amoeba inflicts a startling 4 points of
damage to your STAMINA during its attack!
MUTANT AMOEBA SKILL 8 STAMINA 11
If you win, you can search this chamber (turn to 209),
or you eventually force the door open, leave and
search elsewhere (turn to 231).

1g0
For every three times the Stonewight hit you, you
must lose 1 point from your sKILt permanently, unless
you can find some cure! Now turn to 135.

IQI—192

IQ

As you touch the door, the water in the room behind
you surges up in a wave and batters you down,
knocking you through the doorway and into the
blackened ruins of the room beyond. Deduct 2 points
from your sTAMINA, and you must subtract 2 from
your Attack Strength in the first Attack Round of the
combat you're about to face. Inside the fire-blasted
remains of his study stands the ghostly form of the
Master of Waters, ready to drain the life from you.
The Spectre here will attack you instantly. If you do
not have a magic sword, you cannot harm him; he will
hunt you down and kill you, so your adventure ends
here, If you do have a magic sword, do you also have
a black mark on your arm? If you do have, turn to 235.
If you haven't, turn to 32.

192

The spirits hang their heads. ‘He must have become
very powerful. He was the first of us to meddle with
the undead, claiming that by doing so we could learn
more about how elemental magic fuels the very forces
of life itself. If only the Crystals were collected, to
oppose him...’ If you have a Sapphire, a Topaz, a
Tiger Eye and a Ruby, add together the number of
facets in them all and multiply that number by two;
turn to the paragraph with that number. If you do not
have them, the spirits can give you no more help, so
tum to 167.
193-195

193

You must Test your Skill, adding 2 to the total rolled
on the dice. If you succeed, you execute a wonderful
vault across the landing to the upper stairs, where you
face one slightly open door and one closed one. If you
want to open the closed door, turn to 325; if you
prefer to push open the door which is slightly ajar,
turn to 336. If you fail, you land on your rump inside
the pentagram; tum to 492.

194

You have to force the door open as fiery missiles
begin to rain down in earnest from the glowing,
sparking protrusions all over the ceiling and floor. It’s
like being in the middle of a firework display, and
every bit as dangerous. You must Test your Skill,
adding 2 to the dice roll. If you are successful, you
force open the door; if you fail, you are struck by a
missile and must lose 1 point from your STAMINA, so
you have to try again (Testing your Skill as before).
When you manage to open the door, tum to 355.

195
In order to clean the shrine, you can use some rags
from the old wall-hangings, and you will also need
some liquid to clean up the mess — a potion, olive oil,
grog or Monks’ Herbal Liqueur {a full bottle) will help
get rid of the bloodstains and the other unpleasant
marks. To repair the statues, you need some glue. If
you have a pot of glue and one of the liquids, tum to
274. If you don’t have what is needed, or if you prefer

196-197

not to use it, you won't find anything by searching, so
you leave and head eastwards; turn to 390.

196

You finally confront the Master of Fire as you strike
out with your weapon and he raises his sword.
[hrough his weapon he is able to channel one final
magical assault upon you. Roll dice for Attack
Strengths of both yourself and the Master of Fire (he
has sxitt 12), If you have the higher Attack Strength,
turn to 295. If he has the higher Attack Strength, turn
to 229.

19
After all your efforts you find only a shield and 2
Gold Pieces, and you must eat a meal here. Now you
can set off again and follow the tunnel in the opposite
direction (tum to 75) or ascend the chute and travel
eastwards (turn to 334).

198

198

You have entered a very luxurious and well-appointed
study. The plush tapestries, the carpets and furniture
are all valuable — but you’re not here to admire their
beauty and worth. An everlasting magical fire burns in
a large fireplace and above it two excellent swords are
mounted on the wall; they may be worth looking at.
A swift inspection of the bookcase reveals some arcane
works which aren’t going to be of any use to anyone
but a wizard. Tucked away under a mahogany lable
you spot a small locked chest; this too may be worth
investigating. Will you:

Take down a sword in order to
examine it closely?

Force open the chest?

Leave and search elsewhere?

Tur to 103
Turn to 13§
Tum to 79

199-200

199
You must Test your Skill If you are successful, the acid

splashes over the body (you may subtract 4 points
from the sTAMINA of the Master of Fire when you
come to fight him, so make a note of this!). If you fail,
the acid misses, causing no damage. Tum to 17.

200

‘Caltarelair,’ you call out, ‘do not attack! I am not your
enemy! The spirit wavers, halting his incantation and
waiting to hear what you have to say. There is only
one thing that will prevent him from attacking you:
your mentioning the Chamber of Elements. If you
know about that chamber, you know also how many
Tunes are on the door of the chamber, so turn to the
paragraph with the same number. If not, you must
fieht; turn to 44.
201

201

The Plain of Swords is utterly desolate. Yellowed
bones, smoothed by wind and dust, stick up through
the dusty ground; here and there a rough caim of
stones has been erected to mark a grave. Broken and
long-rusted blades litter the ground, You wonder who
died in battle here for surely many must have fallen,
judging by the number of bones strewn around. You
have no time to reflect further, though, for the dust in
front of you is suddenly writhing and undulating, and
a great black serpent-form rises up before you! the
scaly-backed reptile has two heads, both with rows of
serrated teeth, and it lunges at you with them both.

You must fight the Hydra-Snake here, Your enemy
gains two attacks each Attack Round, so roll dice for
the Attack Strength of each head separately, The
highest of the three sets of rolls (one for you, two for
the Hydra-Snake) is the only one that inflicts damage.
If you wish, you can strike repeatedly at one of the
thing’s heads; when you have inflicted 6 points of
damage to the stAMiNA of one head, you have severed
it and the Hydra-Snake will have one attack per Attack
Round thereafter. However, these 6 points do not
reduce the total sTaMINA score of the monster! Alterna-
tively, you can strike at the body and seek to reduce
the monster’s overall sTAMINA total, reducing that
with each successful hit; but in this case the monster
continues to have two attacks per Attack Round until
you have killed it.

HYDRA-SNAKE _ SKILL 8 STAMINA 11
202-204

I€ you win, you will press on towards the building in
the distance (turn to 365) or backtrack to the east
towards the black tower (turn to 124)?

202
You force open the lid of the black wooden chest, It
contains no mountains of pearls or piles of gold
doubloons ... but what it has may be more valuable
to you. You find a pot of thick glue, a sword and a
small pouch with a few Gold Pieces in — 6, to be
exact. Now, if you also salvaged a bottle, tun to 279.
If you didn’t, turn to 387.

203
You crack open the bottle by breaking it at the neck,
trusting that its undrawn cork will guarantee it hasn’t
been interfered with. You swallow quite a lot before
realizing how much you've drunk. It will not be wise
to drink more, but now you are refreshed (regain 4
STAMINA points) and your slight feeling of euphoria
will give you courage in battle (add 1 to your Attack
Strength for the next two combats). Now, will you:

Drink some brandy?

Burn the painting, if you haven't done
so already?

Leave and try elsewhere?

Turn to 124

Tum to 335
Tur to 79

204
‘I could tell you much about this island in return for
something to help me eke out my days here,’ the
hermit chuckles. He'll give you information in return

205-206

for any one item from the following list: a full bottle
of Monks’ Herbal Liqueur, any magical potion, a Gold
Key, a bottle of grog, or a Gold Chain. If you want to
hear what he has to say, you must give him one of
these; turn to 394. If you'd prefer to give him nothing,
or if you have none of these items, turn to 168. If you
want to attack the old lunatic, turn to 16,

205
The Earth Elemental attacks you the moment you enter
its domain. [f you do not have a magic sword, you
cannot harm the Elemental and you are forced to flee.
You lose 4 points from your stamina from its blows
as you flee the room and return to the main passage-
way; turn to 23. If you do have a magic sword, you
can fight, but you have picked an almost unconquerable
opponent! The blows of an Earth Elemental cause 4
points of stamina damage if they strike home, and
any blow you inflict will cause only 1 point of damage
to the STAMINA of the Elemental here! If you choose to
flee at any time, you may do so, but you will have to
deduct 4 points from your STAMINA caused by a blow
to your back as you run (tum to 23 if you’re still alive).

EARTH ELEMENTAL

If you win, turn to 227.

SKILL 14 STAMINA 22

206
You sense something evil lurking behind the door. If
you want to leave the monastery and head elsewhere,
turn to 28r. If you prefer to attack whatever is behind
the door, you can surprise it by slamming the door
207-208

into its body and then fighting it; turn to 222, and you
can subtract 2 points from the sTAMINA score of the
creature as given in that paragraph.

207

A few brief moments of activity take place inside the
tank, as if air was being forced into it under pressure;
then the rotting gunk inside becomes fresh, green and
healthy. Replacing the evil stench you can now smell
the scent of clean and fresh brine, seaweed and algae.
Whatever the wizard who was meddling with this
very simple form of life was doing, you seem to have
converted his handiwork into a more pleasant form
than when you first encountered it.

It suddenly strikes you that this stuff may actually be
edible; it’s almost certainly highly nutritious. You con-
template breaking the glass of the tank, but first you
want to be sure that you can collect up as much of the
stuff as possible. If you want to break the glass of the
tank straight away, turn to 359. If you would rather
go away and find more utensils in which to collect
extra effluvium from the tank, or if you want to ignore
this altogether, you leave here; tum to 106, but make
a note that you can return heré later from another
location in this dungeon level by turning to 289.

208
Edging past the corpse of the Guardian, you miss your
footing and tumble down some stairs into inky black-
ness. Deduct 3 points from your sTAMINA; if you are
still alive, turn to 218.

209-211

209
The chamber is very beautiful but contains nothing of
value to you. Your search takes some time, so you
must eat a meal here. Afterwards, you eventually
manage to force the locked door open and you escape;
turn to 231.

210
At the bottom of the chute the tunnel is dark, and you
can see little. If you do not have a lantern, your SKILL
is 2 points lower than normal here, and you risk
blundering into traps. The tunnel extends as far as you
can see to your right and to your left. Will you:

Take the right-hand passage? Turn to 320

Take the left-hand passage? Tum to 7§
Climb out again and set off
eastwards? Turn to 334

211
The door of this small, cosy room swings open easily.
Inside, a large oval table almost fills the room and four
throne-like chairs are placed round it. One chair is
upholstered in red material, one in brown, grey and
gilt, one in blue and one in yellow. Above each chair
hangs a portrait of one of the wizards. Three of the
chairs and three of the pictures have been attacked and
slashed; only the red chair, with its portrait of the
Master of Fire hanging above, remains intact. The last
wizard’s picture glowers back at you: the face is
saturnine, heavy-eyed and clean-shaven, but with an
unmistakable glint of evil in his cruel smile and unflinch-
212

ing gaze. If you have a lantern and some oil, you may
destroy this portrait by burning it if you want to; turn
to 335. Alternatively, you can search through the
room (turn to 10g) or leave and try somewhere else
(turn to 79).

212
The weather is worsening: the skies are a leaden grey
and the sea is getting choppy as a wind begins to
build, coming in from the eastern seaboard. Where will
you go now? Will you head:

East towards the stone building, if

you haven’‘t been there before? Tum to £8
South-west towards the woodlands? Turn to §7
South towards the central hillock? Turn to 186
Back to the lighthouse, if you haven't

already entered it? Turn to 333

213-214

213
‘There are some guards and guardians, but nothing you
couldn’t handle.’ The apprentice grins, but then his
expression becomes serious. “The exceptions are the
Spectres, should you meet them. You need powerful
magic to harm them. There is some tomb dust in the old
crypt beyond the storeroom; take it from the guardian
tomb there and mix it with the ethereal oil in the alchemy
labs. Anoint your sword with it and you'll be better able
to fight those things.’ If you have already been into the
crypt beyond the storeroom but did not take any Tomb
Dust, make a note that you can do this by turning to 15
after you leave the apprentice. For now, return to 48.

214
You make a gesture signifying ‘sleep’ with your hands
and closed eyes, and the Lizard Men understand that
you are tired and need rest. Roll two dice. If the total
is less than, or equal to, your PRESENCE, turn to 258. If
the total is greater than your PRESENCE, the Lizard
Men don’t trust you enough to take you into their
confidence, so you must go on your way; turn to 241.
215-216

215

You force open the brown door and find yourself
looking into an antechamber which has very striking,
and strange, quartz formations running along and
down the walls. There is a brown crystalline door
opposite you — but there is also a guardian standing
before it. The creature looks like a skeleton, but its
limbs are covered with an array of overlapping, stony
plates which give it very effective armouring, and
there is a dull, green glow in its eye-sockets. It
holds a large, mme-inscribed sword in its bony

hands.

lt makes no move to attack you, but you guess that, if
you want to get to the door beyond, you will be
forced to fight it. Will you attack this creature (turn to
348) or return to the main passage and explore some-
where else in the dungeon {turn to 23)?

216
The Merman leader accepts the chain with a sign of
thanks, and his people murmur their gratitude. In
return, the leader gives you a silver flask. He tells you
that this contains a Potion of Stamina which can affect
only humans and thus is useless to his folk. You may
drink this potion at any time, except during combat,
and it will restore lost stamMINA points up to a half of
your Initial sTAMINA (rounding fractions up). The
Mermen also give you some fish to eat — raw fish may
not be to your taste, but it’s good for you (add 3 to
your Provisions). Turn to 285.
217-219

217
You are struck by the chilling, life-draining magic of
the Dire Spectre; deduct 5 points from your sTAMINA!
If you survive, you can now drink a Blue Potion, if
you have one (tum to 117), move to attack the
Spectre (turn to 242), or coat your sword with Spec-
trebane, if you have any (turn to 174).

218

You descend some stone steps and find yourself in a
deep antechamber, There is a very faint glow here
which is coming from a smal] globe of golden metal
placed on top of a stone slab in the middle of the
chamber, and you can dimly make out arcane runes
and symbols etched on calcified plaques round the
walls. Hovering above the globe is a very faint blue
form, almost human in shape; it advances a little way
towards you. In a tinkling, almost musical voice, the
form addresses you. ‘I am charged to protect this
place. Do not advance, for 1 must attack you, yet ]
would be free of this bondage if you are strong
enough to master me.’ What will you do here? Will
you try to talk with this spirit, if such it is (turn to
232), attack it (turn to 177), or leave this barrow (turn
to 20)?

219
The passageway tums right here and leads down until
it comes to a door at the end, with a second door
about half-way along on the left. Will you open the
door that is nearer to you (turn to 366) or try the door
at the end of the passage (turn to 49)?

220-221

220
The spirits gaze, wide-eyed, at the gems you place
before them. They lay their hands upon yours as you
hold the four stones, and an aura of magical light
plays about them. You find yourself holding a fifth
stone which has become manifested with the others: a
magnificent, 280-carat diamond. The spirits look satis-
fied, but they are fading and can speak no more. Turn
to 167.

221
Clambering down the precipitous path then wading
and swimming out to the wreck, while avoiding get-
ting snagged by sharp rocks, takes some ability! Test
your Slall If you are successful, you negotiate these
obstacles without harm. If you fail. you must deduct 2
points from your sTAMINA because you gashed your
leg on the rocks during your descent. You do make it
to the wreck, however. The little boat has been broken
by some rocks that jut above the gentle waves of the
incoming tide. The water is so clear that you can see
some objects lying, scattered, on the sand, some eight
metres or so below; you can see a stnall chest a

fishing net and a large glass bottle.

If you decide not to dive from the wreck, tum to 387.
If you want to dive, decide which object or objects
you want to dive for, and in what order. You get only
one chance per item (chest, net, bottle), Determine
whether your dives are successful or not as follows:
each time you dive, roll your dice and total the
numbers rolled. If the total is less than, or equal to,
222

your current STAMINA, you have been successful and
you may retrieve the item you dived for. If the total
exceeds your current STAMINA, you have failed and
don’t get the object you dived for. For your second
dive, you must add 2 to the number rolled by the four
dice, and for your third and final dive you must add 4
to the total rolled. After determining the success or
failure of your diving exploit, tum to 1§2.

222

In the doorway crouches the residue of a monk, still
dressed in the simple brown robe of his monastic
order, while the slack-jawed grin and mouldering flesh
tell that you are facing a Zombie. This creature retains
some of the weaponless combat discipline the monk
trained with during his years of life; an agility and
strength unknown in ordinary Zombies confronts you,
as purple-yellow, atrophying hands flash through the
air to strike you down!

ZOMBIE MONK

If you win, you step over the remains of your enemy
and stare into the darkened corridor beyond. There are
doors to your left and right, and the corridor leads
past them to a junction with another passage. Will
you:

SKILL 9 STAMINA 7

Open the left-hand door? Turn to 180
Open the right-hand door? Turn to 398
Continue as far as the passageway

junction? Turn to 154

223-224

223

Disturbing the tomb of a good priest, which is what
you have done, costs you the loss of 1 point of Luck
and 1 point of preseNcE. The tomb itself contains
only dust and the bones of the priest. You may take
some Tomb Dust if you wish (add it to your Posses-
sions if you do). Now, will you open another tomb
{turn to 353) or leave the crypt (turn to 277)?

224
The Black Skeleton blocks your way so that you are
unable to reach the Master of Fire. The thing is more
magical than most skeletons; it can breathe fire, as
you're about to find out. In addition, its magical nature
means that a magic sword will cause normal damage
(of 2 STAMINA points) to it, as will a stone axe, if you
have one. An ordinary sword, however, will cause
only 1 point of damage if you manage to hit.

Each Attack Round, whether the Black Skeleton has
the higher Attack Strength or not, it will breathe fire
over you. Roll one die. If you roll 1-3 the fire
envelops you and you must deduct 2 points from
your STAMINA. If you roll 4-6, you manage to evade
the fiery breath and you sustain no damage, If you
have a Fire Ruby, you can add 1 to the dice roll. If you
are in serious trouble, you can ‘spend’ i point of Luck
each round (for as long as you have any left), and this
will add 2 to the dice roll.

BLACK SKELETON SKILL 9 STAMINA 9

When you have reduced the Black Skeleton to 3
225-227

STAMINA points or less, turn to 308. If you destroy it
outright when it had 4 or more sTAMINA points left at
the end of the last Attack Round, turn to 346.

2265
The legion of severed limbs overturns your boat,
tipping you into the water. You cannot fight off scores
of these horrors. You are dragged down to drown!

226

You stride out towards the Lizard Men, who ready
their weapons and prepare for combat. They hiss with
rage and thick, corded veins stand out on their necks
and forelimbs. You must fight them both together,
rolling separate dice for all three Attack Strengths
each Attack Round; only the highest Attack Strength
of the three causes damage that round.

SKILL STAMINA
First TWO-HEADED
LIZARD MAN 8 9
Second TWO-HEADED
LIZARD MAN 8 10

If you win, you open the front door to the tower and
enter, The tower is circular, and this chamber occupies
half of its interior space. It is quite bare, and there is a
single door on the left-hand side of the straight divid-
ing wall ahead of you, so you make for it and open it.
Tur to 380,

227
Eagerly you search through the cabinet across the

——— ee eee

228-229

room, and find... nothing! It is clear that the cabinet’s
contents have been removed; there is hardly any dust
in it, but there are a couple of rings of liquid residue
which suggest that bottles, potions maybe, have been
taken from it. For overcoming an Elemental, you gain
no reward! You can now return to the main passage
and reconsider your options (turn to 23) or investigate
what lies behind the door in front of you as you
emerge from this room, along the short passage (tum
to 2§2).

228
Unfortunately you slip in a pool of the horror’s slime
as you make a dash for the stairs. You fall heavily and
the Slimeworm sprays filthy acidic liquid over you;
deduct 3 points from your sTAMINA. Now will you:

Attack the Slimeworm? Turn to 29
Flee from here and run down to the

wreck? Turn to 293
Run away from here and find

somewhere else to visit? Turn to 7o

229
A small cone of blue-white light radiates out from the
tip of the wizard’s sword and strikes you in the chest.
You feel as if every sinew and tendon in your ribcage
had been torn asunder, and you cry out in pain.
Deduct 3 points from your sTAMINA. Your own lunge
at the Master of Fire misses completely. If you are still
alive, turn to 375.
230
You find a torn-up diary with, on its broken spine, a
name: Brother Kendris. You try to match the scraps of
paper to make a coherent message out of what is
written here! After puzzling over what you can make
out of this, will you:

Leave the monastery? Turn to 281
Head along the passage to the other

door, if you haven’t already

opened it? Turn to 255
Go up the stairs? Turn to 302

231
If you haven't opened the door with the brass plaque
on it and you want to do so now, turn to 328. If you
prefer to search somewhere else, turn to 106.

232
You begin to mutter something, but the spirit waves
you away with a dismissive gesture. ‘Fool,’ it hisses, ‘I
warned you.’ The atmosphere in this deep antechamber
grows suddenly chill; deduct 1 point from your
STAMINA. Now, you can either attack the spirit (turn
to £77) or leave the barrow (turn to 20).

= 233
You put your shoulder against the heavy door, using
plenty of force. The door suddenly flies open, and-you
are catapulted forward so that you slip and fall on the
stone floor of the room beyond: deduct 2 points from
your STAMINA What your horrified eyes see next is
234

clear proof that the wizards here have sought to
tamper with the basic forces of life. A single creature is
restrained in a ghastly chair-and-harness apparatus,
moaning piteously. It might once have been human,
but now it has scaly green skin which is badly inflamed
in places and from which an acrid-smelling, oily fluid
oozes. The creature has no hair and its eyes are
bulbous and staring. The six fingers on each of its
shaking hands are joined together by webbed skin,
and a tail like that of a monkey hangs limply down
from its back. The pitiful creature draws back its lips
and snarls at you, spitting defiance and hatred. Will
you:

Kill the restrained creature?
Search the rest of this charnber?
Leave and search elsewhere?

Turn to 125
Turn fo 1§1
Tum to 106

234
As soon as you start running, the Skeletons turn as
one and make for the point towards which you are
heading. They cut you off and you must fight both of
them together. Turn to 164, but in the combat there
you must fight both of them together from the very
first Attack Round!

235-236

23
Your arm aches and throbs with pain from the grip of
the burned body of the Master of Waters. You must
subtract 1 from your Attack Strength during the first
four Attack Rounds of the combat (in addition to any
other penalty you may incur!), Turn to 32.

236

The Captain slumps to the ground in a writhing heap.
Swiftly searching his cabin, you come across some
valuable acquisitions. A flask of grog on the desk can
be drunk at any time except during combat, and it will
restore 4 lost STAMINA points; it also adds a temporary
bonus of 1 to your Attack Strength for the first
combat after you drink it. The Captain’s excellent
ship’s biscuits, still in a sealed tin, are fresh and
wholesome and there are enough for 4 meals (add 4 to
your Possessions). You also find the stout treasure
chest the Captain hoarded; it has a well-constructed
brass lock. If you want to try to prise this open with
your knife, turn to 382. If you don’t want to chance
this, turn to 356.
237-238

237
The Blue Potion has wonderful effects if you are just
about to engage in combat. Drinking it, you feel energy
and adrenalin racing through your body and you move
very swiftly. For the next four Attack Rounds, you may
strike twice at an enemy in hand-to-hand combat; roll
two sets of dice for Attack Strengths for yourself; each
total that is higher than your opponent's will allow you
to give a damaging blow. The potion may help you in
non-combat situations, in which case you will be asked
if you want to use it in later paragraphs. Now return to
the paragraph you came from.

238
The Elemental whirls round the edges of the pentagram
and the etchings in the floor disappear. Then it touches
your head with its great granite fists and you feel your

239-240

skin toughening. Looking down at your hands and
arms, you see that they have a fine veneer of stone all
over them, pliable but tough. Your stony skin will
benefit you in future combats; the first successful blow
any opponent makes against you with any weapon
will cause no damage. This effect will last until] any
opponent rolls 21 or higher for its Attack Strength, at
which time the stoneskin magic will be dispelled (make
a note of this). The Elemental sinks into the floor and
you suppose that it is released from its service. You
make your way back to the chute, ascend it, and set
off eastwards. Turn to 334.

239

A gout of thick, glutinous acid spurts from the fingertips
of the wizard and comes flying towards you. Test your
Skill. If you are successful, you manage to mun so fast
that a splash of it only hits you; deduct 1 point from
your STAMINA. If you fail, you are hit across the chest
and arms by a great gobbet glob of the stuff, and
you must lose 4 points from your STAMINA. Turn
to 248.

240

The whirling vortex is momentarily stilled! The spirits
look shocked, stunned into a sudden awareness of
something they had forgotten or had not understood;
swiflly they join hands and cast a spell. You may add
2 points to your sKILL and 4 points to your STAMINA
(these bonuses can increase SKILL or STAMINA or both
above Initial levels) for the combat to come, as the
vortex begins to spin once more. Turn to 378.
241

241

You try creeping along the trail quietly in order to
evade detection; after some hours you are just nearing
the edge of the swamp when a huge Lizard Man
comes charging at you from out of some scrub cover
to your left. The poor wretch is hideously altered: its
hands are little more than stubby knobs of bone, and a
pair of vestigial, green-veined, leathery wings flap
uselessly on its back. The monster howls in fury at its
own pain, and you'd feel sorry for it — if it didn’t
obviously intend to batter your skull into tiny frag-
ments. You have to kill it; it may even be a mercy to
the poor creature.

MUTANT LIZARD MAN — skILL7 = STAMINAOQ

If you win, your troubles are not over yet! Before you
can take any action, such as eating a meal or drinking
a potion, a second creature, even more horribly mu-
tated than the first, comes charging at you!

Second MUTATED
LIZARD MAN SKILL 9 STAMINA 9

If you manage to survive this second combat, you
splash through the last few metres of the swamp then
fall in a heap, gasping for breath; you have emerged at
the south-eastern side of the swamp. Before you bother
to look around, however, you find a sheltered bower
and fall into a deep sleep; you're totally exhausted.
Turn to 393,
242-244

242

The Dire Spectre has one last defence, which it sum-
mons now. Between your oncoming rush and its own
form it conjures a wall of brittle, calcified bone, forming
a ting all the way round itself. Roll two dice, then add
2 to the total rolled. If this total is less than, or equal
to, your PRESENCE, tum to 127. If the final total is
greater than your PRESENCE, turn to 319.

243
Your time spent searching is wasted: the cells contain
nothing of interest or value. You find yourself yawn-
ing, and you settle down for a badly needed nap on
one of the beds

When you wake, a couple of hours later, you are
ravenously hungry. You must eat a meal. Now will
You:

Return to the main passage and leave
the building?

Return to the main passage and open
the door opposite, if you haven't
done so before?

Head along the main passage towards
the T-junction?

Turn to 281

Turn to 180

Turn to 154

244
If you know the name of the Master of Air, convert
his name to a number as follows: use the code A = 1,
B = 2, C = 3 and so on to Z = 26. Add together
the numbers which correspond to the letters in his
name. Turn to the paragraph of the same number and,

245-247

if the paragraph begins ‘“Master of Air...’, you are
correct and should read that paragraph. If it does not,
your guess as to his name is wrong, and you must
turn to 265 and fight him after all!

245

The light fades from all the statues as the crystal
statue cracks and breaks. At the feet of the statue lie a
ruby with 36 facets and a brown Tiger Eye stone with
golden swirls, set within a fragment of quartz. You
take these (make a note of how many facets the ruby
has). At the start of this new day you must eat a meal.
Then you set off to the east across the Plain of
Swords, towards the forbidding black tower of the
wizards. Turn to 390.

246

‘There is a library beyond the barrier, I don’t know
how to get past the screen. It’s trapped: touch it and
you get badly burnt. I think the wizards used to get
into the library through a magical teleport down in
the dungeons, but they never told me where it was. I
wasn’t allowed to read the books there. But I do know
that there is a magical password to a door without a
lock or handle somewhere below; the word is “elemen-
tarae”.” Return to 48.

247
The Elemental listens to your command impassively. It
sinks back into the pentagram, and you experience a
rumbling and a vibration under your feet. Then the
great stony form rises again inside the pentagram and
248

places a number of items at your feet. The Elemental
has brought you from below the earth a stone axe, a
shield and a pile of food — tuber and roots, hardly
exotic fare, but enough for 5 meals (add 5 to your
Provisions). The Elemental does not await your further
commands but simply sinks below the ground again.
The rumbling continues and dust falls in a fine haze
from the ceiling, You decide that it’s time to leave this
underground area; so you retrieve the Tiger Eye and
clamber safely up the chute. Turn to 334

248
As you run down the stairs, they suddenly flatten out,
leaving you on a chute; you slide down this and hit
the floor hard at the bottom; deduct 2 points from
your STAMINA. By the time you get up, the Black
Skeleton is upon you as the body of the Master of Fire
is stirring into life; turn to 224 to fight the monster.

249-250

249
More time passes; it grows dark and there is no sign
of anything happening here. You must eat a meal at
the end of the day. You're beginning to get sleepy.
Will you go and find a safe place to sleep (turn to 276)
or wait here even longer, risking an attack from some
prowling animal of the night (turn to 26)?

250

You force the door open and enter a lighted chamber
which is furnished with workbenches, a small bookcase,
a trunk and a rough armchair; there is a solitary door
on the left-hand wall. The room doesn’t seem to have
any occupant — but objects are suddenly being thrown
at you by an invisible creature: stones, paperweights
and suchlike! You screw up your eyes looking for the
creature who is throwing the objects, and eventually
you can discern it as it becomes visible. First, however,
the missiles may harm you, One missile is thrown for
each time you tried forcing the door in order to enter.
For each missile, Test your Skill, if you are successful,
you duck the object, but if you fail, you are hit and
must lose 1 point from your STAMINA.

The creature slowly becoming visible is a small,
winged, imp-like being with a large head and long
forearms: a Homunculus, a magically created compan-
ion of wizards. It buzzes about angrily and attacks you
with its sharp claws. If you want to fight the Homuncu-
lus, turn to 7. If you want to fend it off and try to
negotiate with it, turn to 288
251

251

You say that you accept Parraine’s service and you
make him an oath that you will do your best to find
his bones and bury them on the Plain of Swords. The
Spirit condenses into a funnel of light and vanishes
into your sword. Parraine will now do you a service
three times before you bury his bones. You must
record the fact on your Adventure Sheet when you
make use of a service. The Spirit can perform any of
the following acts at any time as one service: he can
cure one disease you may have, he can strengthen
your sword so that it inflicts 6 points of damage to
the STAMINA of an enemy as the result of a successful
hit in combat (you can choose this service after you
hit your enemy), and he can heal you so that you
regain up to 8 points of lost sTAMINA (but this last
service cannot be carried out during a combat). You
gain 1 point of PRESENCE for accepting the spirit, but
you must know that you have made a pact with him —
and you had better not break it! Now turn to 63

252-253

252
As you stand in front of this door, you see that it has
neither a lock nor any handle. You can open this door
only by saying a password. If you know the password,
multiply the number of letters in the password by ten
and turn to the paragraph with that number If you
don’t know the password, you can either go back to
the door at the bend in this passage and open that
(turn to 185) or return to the main passage and search
elsewhere (turn to 23).

253

The Mermen are uncertain of you, despite the help
you gave them in battle. Some of them mutter and
point their weapons aggressively at you, until their
leader waves them to silence from the back of his
pink-veined, silver Sea Horse. ‘Forgive my brothers,’
he says to you. “They have good reason not to trust
dryfolk. We have all had family slain by harpoons and
the cutlasses of pirates of your kind.” You remain silent
at this rebuke. Now, if you have a Gold Chain, turn to
the paragraph that has the same number as the chain
has links. If you do not possess this item, turn to 285.
Ses ait
C —— San

254-255

254

Having spread your bait, you stand back and await
developments, weapon at the ready. As the slime slips
down into the water, a black, eel-like head slowly rises
from the water at the edge of the pool, its thick black
tongue licking at the slime; more coils of its scaly,
reptilian body begin to slide out of the water and on
to the stone of the passageway. This eel is a really
evillooking beast, with a dark-brown, mottled body
and a thick, bony head, bulging eyes and a powerful,
muscular jaw. Its teeth are not large or numerous, but
the power of its jaws will compensate for that if it bites
you! Still, you must have an advantage, fighting this
thing when it’s partly on dry land, so you strike at
once!

GREAT MORAY EEL SKILL 8 STAMINA 11

If you win, you wade through the water and try to
open the door at the far side of the room; turn to 153.

255
You push open the unlocked door. Inside is what was
once a study — before it was utterly despoiled. Furni-
ture and books, specimens and samples of plants and
fruits and seeds have all been overturned, thrown
around and trampled underfoot. You make a careful
search, and find, below a carpet piled up in one corner
of the room, that there is a tiny trapdoor. It’s not
possible to lift it by force, and you can open it only if
you have a Gold Key. If you have a Gold Key, you
know the number of the paragraph where you obtained
it. Double that number and turn to the paragraph with
256

the same number. If you don’t have the Gold Key, you
leave the room and return to the passage; now will
you:
Leave the monastery? Turn to 281
Set off down the passage to the other
door, if you haven't already
opened it?
Climb the stairs?

Turn to 61
Turn to 302

256

‘Caltarelair, it has all been the doing of the Master of
Fire. He affected your mind and destroyed your body,
and now your spirit cannot be at rest. He placed some
magic in the Chamber of Elements, which is the root
of your furious quarrel with Remishaz. Please come
with me, and let us be done with what lies beyond its
door. I need your help to do this, I want you to be at
peace,’

The spirit wavers and the old man looks uncertain, still
angry and untrusting but now unsure of himself. He
lowers his hands. ‘I will come, he whispers at last, ‘but
I will destroy you if this is lies or trickery.’

You walk with Caltarelair to the door of the Chamber
of Elements. Remishaz is already standing beside it,
and the spirits of the two wizards immediately react to
each other's presence and become enraged. You beg
them to put aside their differences, just for a few
moments, and let you inside the charnber. You tell
them that they can slay each other afterwards if they
really want to, and that a few moments won't make

257-258

much difference. The spirits glower balefully at each
other, but they comply and they both touch the door
with its myriad runes, It flies open; turn to 121,

257

The Dire Spectre will use its talons to rake at your
body and face. Each time it strikes you, you lose the
usual 2 STAMINA points, but the horror also drains
you of 2 point of PRESENCE with each hit and, if your
PRESENCE is reduced to zero, you will die, your very
soul extinguished by this terrible undead lord. If you
do not have a magic sword, you cannot harm your
enemy, and you will perish here. If you do have a
Magic sword, make sure you are aware of the advan-
tages to be gained from the use of Blade Venom and
Spectrebane and any Potion you've taken which may
help. You need all the assets you can muster in this
final, dread battle!

DIRE SPECTRE SKILL 11 STAMINA 19

If you win, turn to 400.

258

The Lizard Men will not admit you to their village,
but they show you a safe place on the fringe where
you can sleep and their night patrols will guard you.
They even give you some snake meat for supper. It’s
raw and it’s not easy to force down, but you can’t
refuse their hospitality, and it’s nutritious stuff. Regain
4 lost STAMINA points.

In the morning, bearing in mind their warning about
259

hostile Lizard Men along the trail, will you:

Continue along the trail anyway?
Backtrack and take the south-western

Turn to 241

trail? Tum to 69
Backtrack and use the rope-bridge
route? Turn to 84

259

Many of the jars and vials here contain ointments and
creams which you have no way of identifying: some
are probably poisonous, some maybe corrosive, and
you can’t afford to take any chances. The one exception
is a vial of a blue-tinged oil so light that it seems to be
almost insubstantial. It is labelled ‘Ethereal Oil’, and
there are two doses in this vial, Ethereal Oil has two
special qualities you must make a note of First, if you
have some Tomb Dust, you can mix it with this oil to
create Spectrebane. One dose of Spectrebane, when
placed on your sword (you can do this before a
combat), will allow you to inflict 1 extra point of
damage to the sTAMINA of any Spectre you manage
to hit during the first five Attack Rounds of any
combat. Second, one dose of Ethereal Oil can be
rubbed on your skin to allow you to become ethereal
yourself; you will be instructed whenever this may be
an important option. Use this oil wisely! Now return
to 58 to choose something else to examine.

260

260

The door swings open and you hurriedly close it
behind you and stand with it at your back to protect
you, while you try to take in the sheer scale and
majesty of the huge chamber which spreads out before
you. You are standing on a stone balcony overlooking
a great, circular chamber with a vast, arched ceiling
which must be thirty metres above the floor. A swirling
arch of steps leads down to the floor on each side of
you; at the bottom of the left-hand flight of stairs
stands a motionless Black Skeleton, armed with a two-
handed sword, and even in the heat haze here you can
see wisps of flame flickering from its jaws, In the
middle of the room there is an unbroken circle of
flame, within which something is beginning to material-
ize in the air above a slumped body that is seated on a
throne-like chair. You can perform a single action
(such as drinking a potion, putting venom on your
sword, drinking grog or some Monks’ Herbal Liqueur
or cramming a very fast meal down your throat)
before the Master of Fire’s body is possessed by the
manifesting entity and is ready to fight. If you want to
forgo any preparatory step and take offensive action
immediately, turn to 86. Otherwise, turn to 17,

261-263

261
The trapdoor opens to reveal a set of stone steps
leading down to a cellar. Here, some stored items may
be of value to you. There is a rope, a wooden pole
and enough food for 4 meals. You return to the main
room in the lighthouse; will you:

Climb the stairs, if you haven’t done

so before? Turn to 376
Leave and make for the wreck? Turn to 291
Leave and find somewhere else to

visit? Turn to 7o

262
Clearly the young man is desperately fearful and he is
frantically preparing to cast another spell. Roll two
dice then add 2 to the total rolled, If the final total is
less than, or equal to, your PRESENCE, turn to 19. If the
total is greater than your PRESENCE, turn to 303.

The door here is charred and damaged, but the portal
and its frame are bathed in a magical glow, and you
guess that a barrier or trap is Jocated here and that the
wizard who destroyed the Master of Waters couldn’t
eliminate it — and perhaps didn’t even want to risk
facing it. You don’t know how to get rid of this trap,

264-265

and it could be severely damaging. If you're willing to
tisk suffering the effects of the trap, turn to 342.
Otherwise, you can investigate the door opposite you
across the room, if you haven't already done so (turn
to 327), leave the study and open the door just
beyond the water-filled room (turn to 366) or search
somewhere else in this dungeon level (turn to 106).

264
If you have a magic sword, turn to 368. If you haven't,
turn to 12.

265
You are fighting the spirit of the Master of Air. If you
do not have a magic sword, you cannot harm him and
you are forced to flee, so turn to 11, Otherwise, fight
him normally. He has special spell attacks which he
tries to use in the first two Attack Rounds; these are
successful only if he has the higher Attack Strength
during these Attack Rounds. In the first Attack Round,
if he has the higher Attack Strength he will buffet you
with a Wind Wall, and you must deduct 3 points from
your STAMINA. In the second Attack Round, he will
create a magical bola of airy force which wraps round
your legs and batters at your body; deduct 2 points
from your STAMINA; and in the next Attack Round,
you must subtract 2 points from your Attack Strength
as you struggle to regain your balance. Thereafter, he
strikes at you with the numbing chill of a spirit’s

power, and you lose 2 STAMINA points for each blow
he lands,
266

MASTER OF AIR

If you win, there is no treasure or magic to reward
you here. You retum to the main passage and search
elsewhere; turn to 23.

SKILL 10 STAMINA Ii

266

In order to make use of the Axeplant, you need a
pestle and mortar to grind the very hard spikes, and
you need a few drops of oil from the supply in your
lantern (if you have one) or a few drops of olive oil. If
you do not have these items, you continue east, so
turn to 124.

If you do have these items, you can make a small
quantity of Blade Venom, enough for one combat. The
Blade Venom will enhance the damage your sword
does; it will inflict an additional poimt of sTAMINA
damage against an opponent after each successful hit.
This effect lasts for one combat only before the Venom
wears off the blade; you must apply it to your blade
before a combat, not during it. If you have a glass
bottle (or an empty potion vial) you can keep this

267

Venom and apply it at any later time during this
adventure, before a combat. If you have nothing to
keep the Venom in, you must smear it on your sword
now, and it will work during the next combat you
engage in. Now turn to 124.

267
The bell has nothing of interest on or in it, but you
can make good use of the length of rope that is
attached to it, so you take this. Now do you want to
search the straw and branches here (turn to 155) or
descend the stairs to the dungeons (turn to 2)?

— f 4 =< a F)
= = a ————

a Se nee esate

268—269
268
The manikin attacks with its heavy metal fists now
that it is grown to its full two-metre height. Its blows
are very powertul: if it hits you, roll one die; if you
roll 5 or 6, the manikin will inflict 3 points of damage
to your STAMINA rather than the usual 2 points.

BRONZE MANIKIN SKILL 8 STAMINA 9

If you win, you can examine the swords here, if you
haven't done so before (turn to 103), or leave this
room and search elsewhere (turn to 79).

269
Because the magic of its summoners is weaker away
from their dungeons, this Fire Elemental is less strong
than most of its kind. Its heat is powerful but not as
intense as usual, and your Magic Sword will not be
melted by it. However, the metal does get very hot. In
each Attack Round after the fifth, you lose 1 point
automatically from your STAMINA, thanks to the burns
you get from trying to hold on to the heated metal!
So kill this enemy swiftly; fortunately, you will not
suffer any combat penalties if you don’t have a lantern
here: the Fire Elemental is so bright in the darkness
that you can see just where to attack with your sword.

FIRE ELEMENTAL SKILL 9 STAMINA 12

If you want to abandon combat because you are
suffering too much damage from your overheated
sword, you may flee, You throw your Magic Sword
outside the barrow so that you can pick it up when it
has cooled down, and you run away, but you must
270-272

lose 2 STAMINA points when the Fire Elemental strikes
you in the back on your way out. If you choose to
flee, turn to 374. If you defeat the Elemental, tum to
287.

270
The hinges and lock of the small back door are very
rusty; even putting all your weight against the door,
you can’t force it open. Battering it risks alerting the
guards at the main door. If you have olive oil, you can
use this to oil the hinges and lock and get in. If you
don’t have any but you do have a lantern, you can use
the oil from the lantern in the same way, but now you
will not be able to light your lantern until you find
some more oil for it. If you have some olive oil or
lantern oil and wish to use it, turn to 380. If you don’t,
you can make for the large front door (turn to 226) or
back away and search the cliffs (turn to 24).

271
The Master of Fire screams as you catch him in the
middle of his chest with searing acid. He loses 4 points
from his STAMINA (make a note of this), and you ruin
his spell-casting. Now it’s time to close in on him. You
can dive down the left-hand stairs (turn to 98) or the
tight-hand stairs (turn to 248).

272
You leave the ship and drop down into the rowing
boat, which bobs up and down crazily in the big
waves. The storm is blowing up to terifying propor-
tions, and it takes all the strength you possess to force

273-274

a way clear of the rocks and back towards the shore.
Lose 3 points from your STAMINA due to fatigue. Then,
just a few metres away from the shore, your boat gets
tangled in the dense seaweed. The resistance is surpris-
ingly strong, you think — until you peer down and see
to your horror that a veritable underwater forest of
skeletal arms is grabbing at your boat, trying to pull it
over ... and the odd limb is even dragging itself into
your boat, to claw at your legs! If you have a fishing
net, turn to 298. Otherwise, will you try to fight off
this bizarre attack (turn to 318) or jump into the
shallow water and try to fight your way ashore (tum
to 225)?

273

Lifting the lid off the great vat, you both see and smell a
syrupy deposit of acid lying in the bottom. If you want to
take some acid, you can do so in any spare containers you
may have (empty potion vials or glass bottles). None of
the glassware here is clean enough for you to add acid to
it — you don’t want to think about the alchemical
reactions that might occur! If you want to take acid for
use, make a note of how many vessels you fill with it (toa
maximum of four), In combats, you can now throw
bottles of acid; if you hit successfully, the corrosive fluid
will inflict 4 points of damage to the STAMINA of an
opponent. You will be told when you may do this. Acid
may also have other uses, of course! Return to 58.

274
You piece together the shattered statues as best you
can, an operation which takes many hours, so you

274

must eat a meal here. Finally, you step back and
admire your completed handiwork. The statues were
busts of humans, it seems, although the features are
worn and you can make out little detail; some leftover
pieces form simple crystal vases, one red and one a
gold-tinged brown, They don’t have any particular
significance to you. You suddenly feel very tired after
all your work; it’s very late in the day, so you pull
together some of the heavy wall-hanging fragments,
make up a bed of sorts, and fall asleep.

You rise at dawn, very refreshed; regain 4 sTAMINA
points. You become aware that a soft glow within the
shrine is mirroring the dawn outside; the rebuilt statues
have changed quite dramatically overnight! The two
crystal vases have fused into a single, strong human
figure, and the other statues have become busts of
some of the gods of Titan whom you think you
recognize. You can see Cheelah, goddess of luck;

275

Hamasksis, god of learning; Telak the lion-god of
courage; and Galana, goddess of health and fertility.
Along this row of statues a light is passing from one
end to the other then back again in endless repetition.
You have a sudden intuition that, if you place your
hands on one of the statues while it is suffused with
light, you may receive aid or some kind of blessing.
After all, you have restored the shrine. Which statue
will you place your hands on? Will it be:

Cheelah, goddess of luck?
Hamasksis, god of learning? Turn to 309
Telak, god of courage? Turn to 181
Galana, goddess of health and fertility? Turn to 21
The faceless crystal statue? Tum to 245

Turn to 329

275

You swing your weapon against the ranks of Red
Skeletons as they become animated. You fight them as
a group. Not all of them animate; how many do so
depends on your PRESENCE: for each two points of
PRESENCE you have, you must add z to the basic
STAMINA score of the group as shown below. Also, if
you do not have a stone axe, your weapon will inflict
only 1 point of damage to the sTAMINA of the
Skeleton group when you strike (even if you have a
Magic Sword).

RED SKELETON GROUP — skILL8 STAMINA 10

lf you win, you fight your way to the red door at the
end of the passage. Turn to 260.
276-277

276

You clamber up a tree to relative safety and pass the
night very peacefully. When you wake up, you regain
2 STAMINA points, but you must eat a meal for
breakfast. It’s a bright new day, the birds are singing
far too loudly to greet the dawn, and there is just an
ordinary stone arch in the clearing in front of you. But
time grows short and you must find somewhere else
to visit. Turn to 363

277
Leaving the crypt and the storeroom, you return to
the main passage. Will you now:

Open the door at the far end of the

passage, if you haven't done so

before? Turn to 385
Descend the steps? Turn to 56
Try to pass though the screen of

light? Turn to 37

278-279

278
You feel your mind being affected as the Dire Spectre
forms before you and stretches out its misty claws
towards your face. You are helpless — paralysed — as
the horror takes over your mind and your self-control.
You will become a helpless shell as it dominates you;
your adventure ends here.

279
The bottle contains almost half a litre of best-quality

olive oil. You've no immediate use for it, but you have
a sneaking feeling that it may come in useful at some
time in the future . .. turn to 387.

280—282

280

As you feel the door begin to give against your
onslaught, the room you are standing in starts to react
to your efforts, The bony protuberances all round it
begin to sparkle and spit small fiery fragments at you,
and it’s going to take you a little while yet to open
the door. If you have a Bronze Manikin with you, turn
to 159. If you haven't, turn to 194

281

You are outside the monastery; looking around, there
are several locations which you could explore. If you
have acquired a Magic Stone, you reckon that it may
be used to re-light the lighthouse beacon. If you have
already been there and you know where to use the
Magic Stone, you will know which paragraph to tum
to in order to do this; but you will have to eat a meal
en route, Alternatively, will you head:

North-east to the lighthouse? Turn to 333
West to the woodlands, if you
haven't been there before? Turn to §7
South-west to a grassy hillock? Turn to 186
Southwards to some marshland in
the distance? Turn to 6
282

As you put your weight against the door, the metal of
the web turns cherry-red and explodes into flame. You
manage to open the door, but you are badly burned in
the process; deduct 4 points from your sTAMINA, Turn
to 198.

Seer

sm
283

283
You finally emerge from the swamp at its south-west-
ern border. You're exhausted and you clamber up into
a tree to sleep.

When you wake up, you must eat a meal. Taking a
look around, to the west you ‘can see a bay with a
sharply descending cliff leading to it, and to the south
a broad and forbidding expanse of barren land, all
brown and black rock and dust. Beyond the plain, on
the far south-western, edge of the island, is a building
of some kind, though you can make out little detail
from here. Almost due east of you, on the far side of
the island, stands a forbidding black tower. So where
will you go now?

Towards the cliffs? Turn to 41
Across the plain towards the building

in the west? Turn to 20%
Across the plain towards the black

tower? Tum to 124

284-285

284
The chest is locked, and you have a gut feeling that it
is somehow trapped. You can prise open the lock with
a knife, but doing so will risk activating the trap. If
you want to hazard opening the chest, turn to 297. If
you would rather not, tum to 58,

285

The leader of the Mermen has some information for
you: ‘The wizards whom Shantizair sought are in the
black towers to the west ~ or, rather, in the dungeons
below it, to be precise. They are dead, but are no less
dangerous for that. There is a secret entrance to those
dungeons in the cliffs below the tower; if you can
enter there, you may be able to avoid some of the
traps they placed to protect themselves. Farewell; I
wish you the blessings of the gods.’ The Mermen
swim off to their homes below the waves. As for you,
when you have ascended the cliffs, will you head
south-west towards the distant building (turn to 201)
or east to the black tower (tum to 124)?
286—287

286

From the inside, the building appears to be a shrine of
some kind — or at least it was until it was wrecked.
Broken pieces of stafuary are scattered about the floor,
books have been ripped up and shredded, vases and
ornaments have been flung about mindlessly and shat-
tered. Wall-hangings have been torn apart, alcoves are
strewn with debris and fragments of bone. Livid old
bloodstains are spattered along the east wall. What
will you do here? Will you:

Try to repair and clean the shrine? Turn to 195
Search through the debris

thoroughly? Turn to 143
Leave the shrine and set off

eastwards? Turn to 390

287
All you get for your pains is a shield, which you find
on the far side of the barrow; you can add this to your
Possessions if you don’t already have one. A poor

288

haul for fighting such a tough opponent. Now will you:

Climb a tree and get some sleep? Turn to 276
Enter the right-hand barrow if you

haven't already? Turn to 38
Enter the large central barrow? Turn to §9

288
The little creature is a guardian and is protecting its
master, so it doesn’t listen to your words. It strikes
you as you speak; lose 2 points from your STAMINA.
You have to fight, so turn to 7.

; — = — Ff
Se Son tuelliiit so |) ett
289-290

289

You slide open the door, to find yourself in a large
chamber. Almost all the available space is taken up by
a huge tank, which is made of glass, with iron hinges
and joinery, and which is sealed save for a single inlet
valve, Cut channels run across the floor; their purpose
would be to drain away liquid. The tank is filled with a
mass of green slime which looks like liquefied seaweed;
it appears to be rotting, and a repulsive smell wafts
across to your offended nostrils despite the sealing of
the tank, You could easily put something small into
the tank if you wanted to, although you cannot see
how to get anything out of it without smashing the
glass. If you wish to put something into the inlet
valve of the tank, decide which item you will introduce
into it and turn to 51x. If you want to break the glass
of the tank, turn to 176. If you would rather leave
this chamber and find somewhere else to search, turn
to 106,

>

Smearing the slimy Cream on your skin repels the
twisting tendrils of the plant and you can pass safely
through. You arrive at the front door of the monastery,
which is slightly ajar; there doesn’t appear to be any
other entrance to the building. Roll two dice. If the
total is less than, or equal to, your PRESENCE, turn to
206. If the total is greater than your PRESENCE, turn
to 222
291-292

291
You descend to the shoreline and discover a small
rowing boat, bobbing up and down in the seaweed-
choked waters near the shore. You could reach the
wreck of the sailing ship, which is already breaking up,
using this boat. This venture would certainly be hazard-
ous: the wind is whipping in from the sea and the
waves are growing, higher. But the wreck may have
supplies aboard which you could use, and possibly
even some information about what has been happening
on the island. lf you'decide to row out to the wreck,
turn to 367. If you think better of it and wish to
explore elsewhere, turn to 70.

292
You walk half-way along the corridor and none of the
Red Skeletons is animating. If you have a Sapphire, a
Topaz, a Fire Ruby and a Tiger Eye, add up the facets
in this group of gems and divide the total by 2; turn
to the paragraph with that number, Otherwise, a
skeleton suddenly strikes out at you with its sword;
lose 2 points from your STAMINA. You're forced to
fight as the undead surround you. Tum to 275.

293-294

293

‘I wasn’t allowed to go into many areas, but I do
know of one or two traps. Don’t take the swords from
above the fireplace if you get as far as the rooms of
the Master of Fire in the deepest dungeon. Be careful
of the steps leading down to the next dungeon level —
there is a trap set on them now, so search carefully for
any pits or other traps there. I don’t know exactly
what the trap is. ] know there are magical traps in the
alchemy laboratories of the Master of Waters — don’t
touch the green globes there. Don’t touch the blue light
screen down the passage, either. There will be other
traps too, but I don’t know of them’ Return to 48.

294
Tume passes, and you must eat a meal. You've been
walking all day and it’s clear this trail is somehow
magically warped or distorted; it simply can’t be as
long as the distance your weary feet have walked. At
any rate, now the light is failing and you must sleep.
You clamber up into a tree and get some very uncom-
fortable rest, save from predatory animals. —

Dawn breaks at last and you haul your stiff body to
the ground. Back to the trail; return to 343.
295-297 298

295 still, clouds of choking gas from the chest are now
Your sword strikes the Master of Fire and ruins his filling the room. You have a choice here; you can flee
concentration, so his magical attack is nullified. Your the room immediately (turn to 106), or you can try to
weapon's blow inflicts the usual damage, so turn to close the lid of the chest, which will mean inhaling
375 and finish the wizard off! more of these toxic furnes (turn to 324).

298
You throw out the net, and the mindlessly grasping
limbs clutch at it and are enfolded. You manage to
scramble ashore without being harmed, but you must
now cross the net off your list of Possessions, Turn
to 166.

296
You make it safely to the door of the grey stone
building and find, to your surprise, that it is not
locked! You open the door and enter; turn to 286.

297
Sure enough, you spring a dart trap which skewers

your hand; deduct 1 point from your sTAMINA. Worse

WITT Za

Ch

=

299-300

299

You peer through the open door into the circular
room at the base of the lighthouse. Fortunately, just
enough light is filtering down from the dome into the
gloom to make general outlines just visible. Simple,
plain stone steps cut in a spiral staircase lead upwards,
while a wooden trapdoor shows that there is some-
thing below ground level. There is also a repulsive
monster slobbering and drooling in the half-dark here!
It looks like an obese, slime-dribbling giant maggot
with several sets of human arms protruding from its
segmented body, and its head has the vestiges of
human features, With a vile shudder the Slimeworm
expels a great gobbet of evil-smelling muck at you;
then it squirms towards you, lunging with its surpris-
ingly hard nails outstretched and extending the suck-
ered, bony plates of its slobbering mouth. You may be
able to evade combat here; will you:

Aitack the Slimeworm? Turn to 29
Try to dodge the monster and run
up the stairs? Tum to 228

Run away and descend to the wreck? Turn to 291
Run away and find somewhere else
to visit? Turn to 7o

300
The magical ward chills you as you force open the
door; you think you've never experienced such awful,
numbing cold. Deduct 5 points from your sTAMINA,
but you succeed in getting into the bedroom of the
Master of Waters. Searching here will take some time,
301-302

so you must eat a meal. You check through the
furnishings of the small bedroom and swiftly ascertain
that the articles of greatest interest here are some
notebooks, hidden in a locked coffer which you force
open with your knife. Turn to 172.

301
So far, the Master of Fire has simply been observing
you battling his guardian; now he unleashes one of his
minor spells at you. A ball of flame erupts from his
fingertips and roars across the room. Roll one die; you
must deduct this number of points from your STAMINA.
The Black Skeleton is unaffected. If you are still alive,
continue fighting it to the death, then tum to 346.

302
The single staircase with its wooden banister rails
leads upwards to a landing from which separate sets of
stairs then lead off, left and right. Stepping gingerly
up the stairs while checking for any tripwires or other
traps, you are almost up to the landing when you see
that a magical pentagram has been inscribed on the
floor here. You have no idea what may happen if you
step into it in order to cross to the stairs beyond. You
could try to vault over it, using the banister rails as
supports, but this could well be very tricky! Will you:

303-304
Leave the monastery? Tum to 281
Walk into the pentagram? Tum to 392
Try to remove the peritagram
somehow? Tum to 3
Attempt to vault over the
pentagram? Turn to 193

5°3
The apprentice doesn’t listen but flings another burst
of magical missiles at you; deduct 3 points from your
STAMINA. If you want to fight him, turn to 395. If you
want to keep parleying, roll two dice. If the total is
less than, or equal to, your PRESENCE, the young man
finally calms down and you can talk; turn to 19. If the
total rolled is greater than your PRESENCE, turn to 395.

304
The Elemental does not respond in any way. You
suppose that it is unable to leave its bonded area and

so cannot accompany you. Will you now:

Ask the Elemental for material aid? = Tum to 247
Ask the Elemental for magical aid? Turn to 238
Attack the Elemental? Turn to 358
Leave here, climb the chute, and set

off eastwards? Tum to 334

3°$~30°7

395

lf you have not been strack in the face by the gunk
squirted at you, you can throw the net and partially
snare the Octopus; subtract 2 points from its Attack
Strength when you have to fight it. If you were
splashed by the gunk, your vision isn’t good enough
to throw the net effectively, and you automatically
miss. In either case, turn to 77 to fight the monster,

306
The armchair is very comfortable, and you sink into it
with some relief. You reach out an arm, draw the
decanter to you, and sip the rich liquid. It tastes
excellent — so good, you guzzle the lot. You sink into
a very comfortable sleep . _.

You wake up feeling very refreshed (restore your
STAMINA to its Initial level). You may take the decanter
with you if you like; perhaps you will find something:
to put in it later. Now return to 110 and select an
option you haven’t chosen before.

5°7
If you want to leave the barrow after this vicious
combat, turn to 20. If you want to explore further, do
you have a lantern? If you have, turn to 218. If you
don’t have one, turn to 208.

308-309

308
The fame sears and burns you as you grit your teeth
and run through it. You lose 5 points from your
STAMINA (2 points if you have a Ruby), Turn to 196,

You have a vision of a yellow-robed, white-haired
wizard suddenly struck down by a deluge of smoking,
viscous liquid, leaving a charred body behind: you
believe that the attack was with acid. Then the spirit
form of the wizard floats up from the body and looks
around; it projects a small circle of magical energy
from its hand, looks surprised that it can still use
magic, and wanders away, You have a strong belief
that this wizard was not entirely evil and that his spirit
is searching for something in its wanderings. You also
feel strongly that this spirit has to be allied with
another to give you something you desperately need
to achieve success in your quest. Lasily, you see
yourself opening the tomb of a person you know to
have been a good man; normally this would be desecra-
tion, but you know that you must do this in order to
aid you. Now turn to 245.

310-311

310

The door before you is sealed and it resists all your
attempts to force it open. You will be able to brave
the terrors which lie beyond it only if you have a
diamond. If you do have one, you will know how
many carats the gem has; tum to the paragraph with
that number. If you do not have a diamond, you will
not be able to progress; you have failed and your
adventure ends here,

311

You read the entry for the Rat’s Tail Fungus; it tells
you that the active ingredient in the fungus has to be
extracted with olive oil. If you have no olive oil, you
cannot make this potion. If you do have some olive
oil, you can crush some of the fungi and insert them
into the bottle of oil. If you have a spare glass bottle,
you can use just a little of the oil and keep the rest;
otherwise you will have to remove the olive oil from
your list of Possessions. The resulting mixture looks
utterly disgusting and it smells like something a horse
might leave behind it; but, incredibly, it acts as a
Potion of Stamina. You can drink this at any time,
except during a combat, and it will restore lost
STAMINA points up to one-half of your Initial sTAMINA
(round Fractions up). Now you backtrack and take the
southern route through the woods; turn to 345.

312

312

Your body becomes insubstantial, ghostly, almost trans-
parent. The hideous Dire Spectre which has risen from
the wizard’s corpse stares at you in hatred and fear! Its
face is lined, its shrivelled eyes are sunk back into their
sockets and its clawed talons end in wisps and tendrils
of acrid smoke. It is a little distance away from you, in
a world which seems strange and only half real; you
can make out the material world, including the wizard’s
chamber, but only as through a hazy fog; this Ethereal
Plane has an elusive, fluid nature of its own. But you
have to get accustomed to it quickly as the undead
monster is waving its hands, and you guess that it
possesses some magic of its own. Will you:

Throw acid at the Dire Spectre, if
you have some?

Drink a Blue Potion, if you have
one? Turn to 117

Turn to 149

Move to attack the Dire Spectre? Tum to 54
Coat your sword with Spectrebane, if
you have any? Turn to 174

313-314

313

The cellars are extensive and a search is time-consum-
ing; you must eat a meal. But you find a pestle and
mortar here (you may take them, if you wish) and,
scrawled on a wall in a far corner of the cellar, you
find what seems to be some kind of map. Below, on
the floor, is the broken flint the unknown cartographer
used to scratch the map with. All that remains of him
is a large, smeared, dark-red bloodstain on the floor.

After your search, you return to the passage; here, you
can open the door opposite if you haven’t done this
already (turn to 398 if you do this), leave the monas-
tery (turn to 28x), or go further into the building
towards the T-junction (turn to 154).

314
The spirit looks satisfied with your sacrifice. ‘There is a
magical force, sealed and hidden not far away, which
must be laid to rest. Come with me.’ You accompany
the spirit as he drifts along the strange, hazy passage
to its indeterminate border with the stone beyond.
The spirit passes his hand over one wall and reveals a
hidden door, glowing with runes. The number of runes
on the door is equal to the number of elements raised
to its own power; the number 4 to the fourth power is
256, of course. ‘This is the Chamber of Elements.
Something within causes strife and struggle, and there
can be no respite from the evil the Master of Fire has
brought here without dealing with this. Alone, I cannot
give you leave to enter, You have to bring that abject
wretch, the Master of Earth, here to open it. His

31§—317

domain is directly opposite mine. I cannot bring myself
to speak his vile name.’ Remishaz remains by the door
and speaks no more. Tur to 23.

315
You cough in the foul, unhealthy atmosphere, and this
weakens you as you spend time in this unhealthy
atmosphere. Every time you encounter a creature of
any kind (even if you don’t fight it), you must deduct
2 points from your STAMINA owing to the weakening
effects of the disease. Turn to 384.

316

You climb the staircase for some ten metres until it ends in
a large, bare chamber with fire-blasted stone walls across
the whole of the tower, Opposite you, on the other side of
the room, is a wooden staircase rising up to ceiling height
and terminating at a wooden trapdoor. On the floor is a
pile of sacking which is clearly covering something,
although you have no idea what it may be. Will you walk
across the room to the wooden staircase (turn to 3§) or
descend the staircase to the dungeons (turn to 2)?

317
You are fortunate that the Master of Waters liked to
indulge himself in the matter of food and drink. This
small storeroom contains plenty of preserved food:
fruits, salted and smoked meats, wrapped rye bread
and much else. You can eat enough here to restore
your STAMINA to its Initial level, and you can fill your
backpack with as much food as you can carry (increase
your Provisions total to its maximum of 12). Now you

318-320

can open the door opposite you across the study, if
you haven't already done so (tum to 263), leave the
study and open the other door just down the passage-
way beyond the water-filled room (tum to 366), or
search elsewhere in this dungeon level (turn to 106).

318
You have to fight for six Attack Rounds — the time it
takes you to force your way to the safety of the shore.
The mass of arms, far too large for you to destroy, has a
collective skit of 8. In every Attack Round when you
have the lower Attack Strength you must deduct 2
points from your sTAMINA because of the tearing and
gouging wounds inflicted by the undead mass. In every
Attack Round when you have the higher Attack
Strength, you manage to hack off some limbs; this makes
no difference, however, as there are dozens ready to take
the place of any you destroy — but at least you lose no
STAMINA points. If you are still alive after six Attack
Rounds, you manage to stagger ashore, so turn to 166,

319 |
You have to force your way through the barrier
composed of cruel shards of bone, registering the pain
in your mind. You lose 3 points from your STAMINA,
yet strangely your movement isn’t impeded much by
this defence, and your legs show no signs of injury. At
last you confront your final enemy. Turn to 257.

320
The tunnel opens out into a dark cavern containing a
large number of skeletons and rusted armour and

ee See
321

equipment. The cavern is dank and the air stale; there
may be some equipment here which might still be
usable, but searching would take valuable time. Will
you:

Search this chamber? Turn to 197
Leave, and follow the tunnel ahead? Tum to 75
Return, climb back up the chute, and

set off eastwards? Tum to 334

| 321
The trail seems to be meandering around in a twisted,
recursive path; time passes, and you must eat a meal.
Return to 34.

322

322
You descend a long flight of stone steps into an
atmosphere that grows increasingly damp and cold. A
faint phosphorescent glow comes from the stone, but
it is still gloomy as the steps descend to a half-open
door; if you do not have a working lantern, you must
subtract 1 point from your Attack Strength during all
combats in this dungeon level (until you find another
set of steps leading down). You push open the door
and it almost falls off its hinges; the other side of it is
blackened and charred. An almost circular fireball pat-
tern is blasted into the stone of the passage which lies
beyond the door. Peering cautiously around, you see
three doors on the wall opposite the door you've
entered by; to both your left and right the passage
ends in an L-junction, the distant passage leading
away from you, Will you:

Turn to 371

Open the door opposite you?

Open the left-hand door? Turn to 352
Open the right-hand door? Turn to 289
Follow the passage to your right? Turn to 78
Follow the passage to your left? Turn to 219
323-324

323
‘T accept your decision,’ the spirit says rather mourn-
fully, and it disappears. You are left alone in the
darkness of the deep barrow, but there is still some-
thing here which may be of use to you. Turn to 63.

3

The lid of the chest is wedged open with a spring
device. You must Test your Skill, adding 2 to the dice
roll. If you're successful, you manage to close the lid
of the chest and may continue searching (turn to 58). If
you fail, you must lose 2 points from your sTAMINA,
caused by inhaling the gas. You can try again to close
the chest, but each time you fail you must lose another
2 STAMINA points, and if you fail three times the gas
is so unpleasant you will be forced to flee from the
room; turn to 106

345

325

You push the door open cautiously; beyond it is a
large dormitory room with hard beds, some robes and
monks’ habits on pegs, and a few small cupboards and
tables. A search here reveals nothing but is time-con-
suming, so you must eat a meal here Now you can go
down the corridor to the open door and enter the
room beyond it if you wish (turn to 336). If you prefer
to leave the monastery and have already fought an
Elemental, turn to 28x; if you want to leave but
haven't encountered an Elemental here, turn to 31.

326-327

326

At last the Master of Fire falls to the ground, his body
lifeless and inert, and it slips into the ring of magical
fire surrounding his throne. The body chars and begins
to burn; the element he commanded will consume him
at the end. Gain i point of PRESENCE. You begin to
tum away, to seek a way out of this terrible place, or
to search for treasures you can take home with you;
but then the hair at the nape of your neck begins to
tise. You spin round ... to see that something is
emerging from the charring body of the dead wizard.
A spectral form is dragging itself out of the corpse,
unharmed by the flames, and as you swing at it with
your weapon you slice right through it, doing it no
harm. Foo/, a thought implants itself in your mind, you
cannot harm me! I will find another body to possess, just as
I fook over this mortal who summoned me. Perhaps I will
possess yours .

You now have a limited time in which you can carry
out up to five actions. Eating a meal counts as one
action {and you can’t gobble down more than two
meals). So does drinking a potion, coating a weapon
with venom or bane if you have one, guzzling some
Monks’ Herbal Liqueur or grog, or coating yourself
with oil {if you can). Decide which five actions you
want to perform, then turn to 163.

327
You wade through the swamp, desperately looking for
a trail, but you can find none. Your efforts attract the
attention of several large alligators, and as you tire

328

they drag you down to a watery death. Your adventure
ends here.

328

Clearly, the door at the end of the passage is designed
to keep intruders out: the wood is solid and strong,
the hinges and fixtures are of brass and iron, and the
brass plaque is plainly magical. Just looking at it causes
a shiver to run down your spine. The face of a
gargoyle is peering at you from out of the plaque; but
it seems to be shifting and changing even as you look,
although it always communicates disdain and a leering,
evil quality. You’re no wizard, but you can sense the
crackle of magic about it. You are fairly sure that some
powerful magical trap must be attached to this door.

If you have a sapphire and you don’t know the name
of the Master of Waters, turn to the paragraph with
the same number as that gem has facets. If you know
the wizard’s name, convert it into a number, using the
following code: A = 1, B = 2, C = 3 and so on to

= 26, then add up the numbers which correspond
to the letters of the name. If you know the wizard’s
name but do not have a sapphire, turn to the paragraph
with the number of the wizard’s name. If you know
the name and you have a sapphire, add the number of
the wizard’s name and the number of facets in the gem
together, then tum to the paragraph with fhaf number.
In both these cases, if you are wrong about the
wizard’s name and you find that the paragraph you
have turned to is inappropriate, you should turn to
165 instead. If you don’t know the wizard’s name and

529-330

don’t have a sapphire but you want to open the door,
turn to 165. If you decide to back off and search
elsewhere, turn to 106.

329
The hairs on the nape of your neck rise, as you feel
the gaze of Lady Luck tum upon you! Increase your
Initial Luck score by 1 (to a maximum of 12), and
your current LUCK score is increased to that new Initial
level. Turn to 245.

330

You cannot harm a Fire Elemental without a magic
sword. You are forced to flee, and you have to deduct
4 points from your STAMINA due to attacks made
upon your back as you run. As soon as you leave, the
flares are immediately extinguished. Safe once more
outside, if you are still alive, will you:

Climb a tree and get some sleep? Tum to 276
Enter the right-hand barrow, if you

haven't already? Turn to 38
Enter the large central barrow? Turn to 59

ee
331-332

332

The hermit laughs incredulously at the notion that a
madman like himself could give you advice. ‘Why,
you're a bigger fool than I am’ he cackles with glee,
and he skips away through the woods before you can
stop him. He won't answer any more questions now,
but a piping voice floating through the woods gives
you a final, cryptic piece of information: ‘If you get to
the shrine, the faceless one is your best friend, but
don’t choose it, oh no!’ Tum to 168,

332

A ball of freezing fog forms and hurtles at astonishing
speed from the Master’s hands across the room to-
wards you. You cannot aim the acid properly now, but
you yourself are chilled and numbed when the fog
envelops you; deduct 2 points from your STAMINA
and you must subtract 1 from your Attack Strength in
your next hand-to-hand combat. Turn to 39.

333

333

You set off towards the lighthouse and soon find
yourself standing before a sturdy door, slightly open,
at the base of a white stone tower with a glass cupola
on the top of it. No light is visible within the glass,
and everything behind the door is pitch dark. Now
youre close to the clifftop, you can see that a small
sailing ship has been wrecked down in the bay, just to
the east of you; the disappearance of the magical light
from the lighthouse has already claimed a victim. A
rowing boat has been smashed on the rocks a short
distance from the main vessel. Angry waves break
over the headland below and spray is whipped in by a
fierce east wind. The door of the lighthouse is hanging
open and it periodically bangs in the breeze; drawing
closer, you gain a distinct impression of cold and evil
lurking in the darkness beyond. Will you:

Open the door and enter the

lighthouse? Turn to 299
Descend and investigate the wreck? Turn to 291
Leave the area and find somewhere

else to visit? Tum to 7o

334-336

You are less than a kilometre from the tall black tower
which stands on the cliffs overlooking the Ocean of
Tempests. The spire of the tower reaches far into the
sky, and there is a flying creature of some kind
spiralling above it — it seems very large, and does not
look like any seabird you have ever seen. If vou have
the Spirit, Parraine, with you, turn to 53. If you do
not, you can make straight for the tower (turn to 128);
alternatively, you can go to the top of the cliffs, a little
way from the tower (tum to 24).

335
You douse the picture in oil and set fire to it. However,

applying fire to a painting of the Master of Fire is not
a wise action: the visage of the wizard spits fire over
you as his portrait goes up in flames; lose 4 points
from your stamina. Now you may search the room
(turn to 109) or leave and try elsewhere (turn to 79)

The large room behind this door may have been a
meditation chamber or an inner sanctum for the senior
monks here. The kneeling cushions, mats, tapestries,
ceremonial bowls and tables here have been smashed
with a primeval fury; from behind a curtained-off part
of the room you hear something scrabbling and pant-
ing. Whatever the thing making these disgusting noises

337-338

is, it doesn’t seem to have noticed you yet. If you
prefer not to confront this monster and would like to
leave the monastery, and if you've encountered an
Elemental here, turn to a8r. If you want to leave but
haven't fought an Elemental here, turn to 31, If you
want to attack the creature here, turn to 354. If you
want to go along the corridor and open the other
door and you haven't done this already, turn to 325.

337
You step back into the magic circle ... and find
yourself outside the door with no lock and no handle
by which you entered You can open the door at the
junction passage, just along from here (tum to 18s), or
you can return to the long, main passageway and
search somewhere else (turn to 23).

338
You wait until the Skeletons are well away from the
door, break from cover and run, full pelt; to the door.
Roll two dice. If the total is less than, or equal to, your
PRESENCE, turn to 234. If the total is greater than your
PRESENCE, turn to 296,

Ine ee

-~
o.

339-341

339

You find the charred and unrecognizable remains of a
human-like creature in what was once a large, throne-
like chair in the room, but nothing else of obvious
value or interest. If you want to inspect the body
more closely, turn to 66, If you'd rather leave here and
try elsewhere in the dungeon, turn to 106,

340

You set off down the passage to the yellow haze and,
as you walk, the passage seems to change substance,
to become a semi-solid vapour, and your feet are
sinking shin-deep into a thick, yellow fog on the floor.
The passageway opens into a seemingly roofless cham-
ber with a spinning vortex of air in the centre and
gentle breezes blowing about it. Sitting at the base of
the vortex is a yellow-robed man; he looks semi-sub-
stantial, as if his body were made of wisps of air, and
his robes and floating white hair dissipate into cloudy
wisps and plumes. His azure eyes turn to you as you
gaze at him, and his nimble fingers fly and flicker as he
begins a magical incantation. If you want to attack
him, turn to 265. If you want to flee from his spell,
turn to 13, If you think you know his name and want
to converse with him, turn to 244

. 341

The belfry of the tower has a vast cupola ceiling
towering many metres above you and great, high
arches that open to the outside world well above the
level of your head. A shattered brass bell lies on the
stone in the middle of this chamber and there are piles

342-344

of what look like straw and branches opposite you, on
the other side of this great chamber. So, will you:

Examine the broken bell? Turn to 267
Search the straw and branches? Turn to 1§§
Descend the staircase to the

dungeons? Turn to 2

342
Hf you have a sapphire, multiply the number of facets

in that gem by six, then turn to the paragraph with
that number. If you don’t have this gem, turn to 119.

343
Drawing back the tarpaulin, you see that the hold is

awash with seawater; the few goods stored there must
be ruined. But there is something lurking here which you
don’t see until it rakes you with a claw; deduct 2 points
from your STAMINA. This Sea Zombie, strong and
heavily muscled, had been the first mate of the ship and
it is more powerful than most. You must fight it here.

SEA ZOMBIE SKILL 8 STAMINA QO
If you win, will you:
Climb to the crow’s nest? Turn to §
Go down the steps below deck? Turn to §2

Get off the ship and leave this area? Turn to 272

344
You swallow the potion and make a run for the door.

Your pumping legs carry you along with incredible

345-347

swiftness and the animating skeletons are too slow to
stop you. However, by the time you get to the door
the effects of the potion have wom off. You try to
open the red door, and you must do this at once
without carrying out any other actions first (such as
eating a meal or drinking a potion); turn to 260,

345
The southern trail twists and turns and continues a fair

distance. Roll one die. If you roll 1, turn to 321. If you
rol] 2 or 3, turn to 294. If you roll 4, § or 6, turn to 43.

346
With the remnants of the Black Skeleton lying at your

feet, the Master of Fire is now ready for you, his
hands weaving another spell as he stands behind his
protective ring of fire. What will you do now? If you
have a Brass Orb and want to try using it, you know
the number of the paragraph where you found it.
Double that number, then turn to the paragraph with
the same number in order to decide what to do with
the Orb. If not, wil you:

Throw acid at him, if you have

some? Turn to 142
Run at him with a weapon? Turn to 364
Use a crystal or diamond here? Tum to 25

347
_ Although you have helped them, the Mermen are still

nervous and distrustful, and they swim away. Looking
about dejectedly, you find some reward: lying on a

EEO sss...
348-350

rock beside one of the dead Shark-Kin is a fish-skin
purse containing 3 Gold Pieces. You climb back up the
cliffs, and now you can head south-west to the building
in the distance (turn to 201) or east to the black tower
(turn to 124).

348
You step forward to attack the Bone Golem. When
fighting it, any blow from its runesword will inflict 3
points of damage to your STAMINA, so you must
defeat it quickly!

BONE GOLEM SKILL B STAMINA 9

If you win, your intuitions tell you that a dangerous
combat lies behind the door beyond the guardian.
Make your preparations, then open the door! Tum to
388.

349
If you have a ruby, multiply the number of facets on

that gem by ten then tum to the paragraph with that
number. If you do not possess a ruby, turn to 282.

359

The door opens into what was once a study chamber,
but it is fire-blasted inside and the furnishings of the
place are a charred wreck; there are doors on the right-
and left-hand sides of the chamber. As you step
forward, a ghostly form materializes before you: the
Master of Waters may be dead, but his spirit has not
left his lair. The raven-haired, grim-faced Spectre will
not be placated by anything you may do or say; it is

551-352

driven by desire for revenge, and the spirit is half
crazy. If you do not have a magic sword, you will not
be able to harm the Spectre, and it will hunt you down
and slay you; your adventure ends here. If you have a
magic sword, you can fight normally. If you have a
black mark on your arm, turn to 23§. If you haven't,
turn to 32.

351

You stride along the slowly ascending line of the cliff,
through scrub grass and thick-leaved plants that are
hardy enough to resist the heat and the salt spray
which whips in from the bay. Soon you can see the
wreck of a middling-sized rowing boat, lying on some
rocks just off the shoreline, some distance below you.
You guess it may have come from your ship and could
well have some supplies in it. A steep pebbled path
leads down the cliff-face here. Will you:

Walk down the path to get to the
wreck? Turn to 221

Veer off to the east and into the
main moorland?

Head towards the lighthouse?

Turn to go

Turn to 333

352
The door, which is locked, is decorated with a large
rune; you aren’t sure, but you think you may have
seen something like this used as a warning tune. If you
want to force the door open, you'll have to put some
real effort into it — and you may well trigger a trap or
make a noise which could alert any guards or guardians

a
353

about. If you decide to try anyway, turn to 233. If you
think better of it, turn to 106

Opening any other tomb will yield you no treasure,
only misfortune! A cloud of foul gas escapes from the
tomb; you now have the disease, Lung Rot. Simultane-
ously the skeleton within the tomb animates to attack
you. If you do not have a lantern with oil, you are
fighting in the dark and must subtract 2 from your
Attack Strength during this combat. Additionally, a
sword will inflict only 1 point of damage to the
Skeleton, even if it is a Magic Sword; a stone axe, if
you have one, will inflict the usual 2 points of damage.

SKELETON SKILL 6 STAMINA 6

If you win, you can either open the first tomb you
examined, if you haven't done so already (turn to
223), or leave the crypt (turn to 277).

354

354

You draw back the black curtains and confront a
creature warped almost beyond recognition. This thing
was once a human monk: the fine quality of its now-
shredded and filthy robe suggests that he may have
been the senior monk in the monastery. Now the
creature’s body is covered in mottled and calcified
nodules, and it oozes a thick, acidic secretion which
drips on to the wooden floor and hisses as wisps of
acrid smoke rise from the blackening woodwork. The
eyes are blackened and opaque, and its face is an
impassive, stony mask. It has just wrenched open a
wooden chest and has flung the contents — papers and
maps — to the floor, where they are dissolving in the
acid. The monster reacts swiftly to your presence. You
have no idea what gross mutated thing the monk —
once Father Honorton himself — has become, but it’s
too fast for you to evade. You've got to fight!

FATHER HONORTON © skILL 10. }3=—s STAMINA 12.

If you win, turn to 170.

355-357

355

A long corridor stretches before you as far as a red
door in the distance. There is a heat haze here, and
sweat drips from your brow as you take a cautious
step along the passageway. You see that large alcoves
are cut into both sides of the passageway between
you and the door, and in each stands a red-boned
skeleton, armed with a broadsword, If they become
animated, and you are sure that they will, they will be
a formidable gauntlet for you to have to mun. If you
possess a Blue Potion and wish to use it here, burn to
344. If you want to mun full pelt for the door in the
distance, turn to 62. If you decide to attack the Red
Skeleton in the first alcove, turn to 275. If you decide
to walk along the corridor quietly and hope that the
Skeletons won’t animate, turn to 292.

356
Where will you go now? Will you:

Search the forward hold, if you

haven't done so before? Turn to 85
Study the magical symbol, if you

haven't done this already? Tum to 97
Open the other cabin door, if you

haven't before? Turn to r14

Leave the ship and return to shore? Tum to 272

357
You touch the screen — and receive a heavy jolt of

electrical energy which numbs your arm. You must
deduct 2 points from your stAMINA and you must

358-360

subtract 1 from your sKILL during the first combat you
find yourself in after you leave the library. Return to
10 and pick an option you haven't chosen before

358
Attacking this great Elemental is not a good move
Without a magic sword, you cannot harm the Elemen-
tal; if you don’t possess one, it destroys you and your
adventure ends here. If you do have a magic sword,
you may fight the immense creature. Any blow from
it causes 4 points of sTAMINA damage

EARTH ELEMENTAL SKILL 14 STAMINA 22

If you win, reduce your Luck by 1 point before you
leave the tunnels and set off eastwards; turn to 334.

359
You tap the glass gently, hoping to make a small crack

in the tank, but the weight of liquid inside is enough
to fracture the pane completely and it pours out in a
torrent. Frantically you try to collect as much of it as
possible. Each empty glass bottle, decanter or potion
bottle that you have can be filled with the nutritious
slime; each will hold sufficient for one meal. When
you've filled all the empty vessels you possess, and
have avoided slipping over and falling flat on your
face in the rivulets of slime that are strearning across
the floor, leave the room and turn to 106

360
As you force open the door, the metal of the web
‘ums a dull red; at the same time the ruby you are

oo EE——EOEOEOEO————e—n

361

holding starts to glow, as if absorbing something into
itself. This gern is now transformed into a Fire Ruby; it
has expanded greatly in size, with a full 60 facets
(make a note of this!). You step into the room beyond
the door, Turn to 198.

461
As you strike the final blow, the Spirit sinks down and
its faint light is extinguished; then it shimmers and re-
forms before your eyes! Fearing you may never be
able to defeat it, you prepare to strike it again, but it
bids you stay your sword, ‘1 am freed,’ it whispers,
‘although not as I would wish. Hear me, stranger.” You
sheathe your sword; the Spirit does not advance or
threaten you in any way. ‘ft am named Parraine,’ the
Spirit continues. ‘1 was commanded by the wizard
whom I cannot name to guard this place. The wizards
drew some of their power over the elements from
here, and the brass orb you see still contains some of
that power. I was once a wizard myself, many decades
ago, and | fell in a great battle on the Plain of Swords
beyond the marshlands. I was not buried properly; my
bones still lie there and I was uneasy in death, The
wizards enslaved me as their servant. Now I am free of
that, but I need to have my bones buried on the plain
of battle. Because ] am free, I willingly offer you my
service. If you choose to accept me into an object you
possess, I will serve you — if you will make me an oath
that you will seek out my bones and bury them. But
as some sages say, and as you may know, to invite a
Spirit into yourself is hazardous, This is a test of your
faith. If you desire my service, say so. If you do not, |

3458-360

subtract 1 from your sKILL during the first combat you
find yourself in after you leave the library. Return to
110 and pick an option you haven't chosen before,

358
Attacking this great Elemental is not a good move
Without a magic sword, you cannot harm the Elemen-
tal; if you don’t possess one, it destroys you and your
adventure ends here. If you do have a magic sword,
you may fight the immense creature. Any blow from
it causes 4 points of STAMINA damage.

EARTH ELEMENTAL SKILL 14 STAMINA 22

If you win, reduce your Luck by 1 point before you
leave the tunnels and set off eastwards; turn to 334.

359
You tap the glass gently, hoping to make a small crack

in the tank, but the weight of liquid inside is enough
to fracture the pane completely and it pours out in a
torrent. Frantically you try to collect as much of it as
possible. Each empty glass bottle, decanter or potion
bottle that you have can be filled with the nutritious
slime; each will hold sufficient for one meal. When
you've filled all the empty vessels you possess, and
have avoided slipping over and falling flat on your
face in the rivulets of slime that are streaming across
the floor, leave the room and tum to 106.

360
As you force open the door, the metal of the web
turns a dull red; at the same time the ruby you are

361

holding starts to glow, as if absorbing something into
itself. This gern is now transformed into a Fire Ruby; it
has expanded greatly in size, with a full 60 facets
{make a note of this!), You step into the room beyond
the door. Turn to 198.

361
As you strike the final blow, the Spirit sinks down and
its faint light is extinguished; then it shimmers and re-
forms before your eyes! Fearing you may never be
able to defeat it, you prepare to strike it again, but it
bids you stay your sword. ‘I am freed,’ it whispers,
‘although not as 1 would wish. Hear me, stranger.’ You
sheathe your sword; the Spirit does not advance or
threaten you in any way. ‘I am named Parraine, the
Spint continues. ‘1 was commanded by the wizard
whom | cannot name to guard this place. The wizards
drew some of their power over the elements from
here, and the brass orb you see still contains some of
that power. I was once a wizard myself, many decades
ago, and J fell in a great battle on the Plain of Swords
beyond the marshlands. I was not buried properly; my
bones still lie there and I was uneasy in death. The
wizards enslaved me as their servant, Now I[ am free of
that, but I need to have my bones buried on the plain
of battle. Because I am free, | willingly offer you my
service. If you choose to accept me into an object you
possess, I will serve you — if you will make me an oath
that you will seek out my bones and bury them. But
as some sages say, and as you may know, to invite a
Spirit into yourself is hazardous, This is a test of your
faith. If you desire my service, say so. If you do not, I

—_ ——eeeeeeaneraereors- Srl
362-364

will be gone.’ What will you do? Will you accept
Parraine’s service (tum to 251) or refuse it (turn to

323)?

362
Convert the wizard’s name into a number using the
following code: A = 1, B = 2, C = 3 and so on to
= 26. Total the numbers which correspond to the
letters in his name, then multiply the total by two.
Turn to the paragraph with that number; if the wizard’s
Name is the first word you read, you have been
correct. Otherwise, the wizard is going to attack you,

so make a note to turn to 134.

363
Leaving the woodlands, you make for an area of the

island which you haven't been to previously. Will you
head:

North along the coastline where you

were washed up? Turn to 351
North-east into the moorland? Tum to go
East to a central hillock? Tum to 186
Southwards into the marshlands? Turn to 6

364
The Master of Fire casts a spell at you as you race
towards him, but fear is beginning to show in his
wide, possessed eyes. He flings a bolt of lightning at
you, but it almost misses its mark and only just
catches you; if you are prepared to lose 1 point of
LUCK, you can dodge it altogether, otherwise you lose

365

2 points from your sTAMINA. Now you're closing in
on your target, so turn to 39.

365

Clambering over the increasingly rocky ground, you
approach the building on the south-western tip of
Solani Island. It is a modestly sized affair, built of grey
stone and with a green-tinged, tiled roof and a solid
door of reddish-brown wood. lt has windows, but
they are quite opaque. Prowling round the building
are a pair of outsize Skeletons, armed with two-handed
swords; they walk mindlessly in fixed patterns, round
and round. After observing them for a while, you
come to the conclusion that you may be able to rush
past them while their patrol is drawing them away
from the door, You don’t know whether the door is
locked, of course, but you may be able to avoid
combat if you run fast enough. Alternatively, you
could attack one of the Skeletons while the other one
is still a considerable distance away. What do you
want to do here? Will you:

Make a dash to the door? Turn to 338
Attack one of the Skeletons? Turn to 164
Back off and make your way east to

the black tower? Tum to 390

366

366

Surprisingly enough, this door opens readily to your
touch, and you stand at the top of a flight of stone
steps that lead down. A dim red glow is reflected
along the walls of this staircase and a blast of heat
strikes you in the face even from this distance. You
guess that this must be the correct route to reach your
final destination, a confrontation with the Master of
Fire. If you are ready to descend now and face him,
turn to 397. If you would rather close this door and
try the one at the end of the passage, turn to 4g. If
you wish to search elsewhere in the dungeon, tum to
106; make a note that, when you are ready to go
down to the deepest dungeon level, you can do so by
turning to 397.

367

367

Through the squalls and choppy grey waters you
struggle to reach the creaking timbers of the sailing
ship, its back broken on rocks that you manage to
avoid. You grab some ropes hanging down the ship’s
side, fasten your own rowing boat safely, and haul
yourself up on deck. You see a half-smashed lifeboat
lying partly over the railing of the ship, an empty
berth from which another lifeboat must have been
launched, a large hold with flapping tarpaulin covers,
and a set of wooden steps, close to the wheelhouse,
leading down below decks. On the main mast, a
crow’s nest seems to have a slumped figure of some
kind in it. Will you:

Investigate the hold? Turn to 343
Climb to the crow’s nest? Turn to §
Descend the steps below decks? Turn to 52

Mn ee ny
; -_ >
tet a

~ yt itn

ae
Peet

hii
td iy)
i yh) yy) Y

YY}

368-369

368
Fortunately for you, the bound Elemental here is
weaker than most of its kind, which means that you
may be able to survive if you're very lucky!

EARTH ELEMENTAL SKILL 10 STAMINA 14

If you win, you may leave the monastery if you
choose; turn to 281. If you haven't been upstairs yet,
you continue upwards. The two sets of stairs rejoin at
the top and open out on to a single corridor. There are
two doors here, one at either end of the corridor. One
door is slightly open, and from the room beyond it
you can hear a horrid, guttural growling and gargling
sound, The other door is closed. Will you:

Make for the closed door and open
it? Turn to 325
Go to the slightly open door and

enter the room beyond? Tur to 336
Go back downstairs and leave the
monastery? Turn to 281

369
The manikin expands until it is the same size as you;
then it simply stands impassively beside you. If you
try to command it in some way, it doesn’t respond,
but if you start to walk away it will follow you. Now,
will you take down the swords here in order to
examine them, if you haven’t already done so (turn to
103), or leave this room and search elsewhere (turn to

79)?

370-372

379°

As you run off you are caught by some blows from
skeletons. Test your Luck. lf you are Lucky, you must
lose 2 points from your sTAMINA through the blows;
if you are Unlucky, you have to lose 6 STAMINA
points from attacks. However, if you're still alive, you
get away and the undead don’t follow you away from
the hillock. Turn to 34.

371

You push open the door easily and it opens into a fire-
blasted room. The smell of burning lingers on the
charred remains of furniture and tapestries here. It
doesn’t look promising; but if you wish to search here,
tum to 339. If you want to go back to the main
passage and choose somewhere else to search, turn
to 106,

372
The humidity is beginning to sap your strength and
your clothing is sodden with sweat. As you stumble
along the trail, your vision is blurred by sweat and
you feel very tired; deduct 3 points from your
STAMINA, caused by your exhaustion. You rub your
eyes and look around, and you are sure that you can
see faces gazing at you from behind the swathes of
swamp fern. The green, reptilian head of a tall and
muscular Lizard Man regards you curiously out of its
yellow, slanted eyes. The Lizard Man doesn’t seem to
be making any move to attack you. What will you do?

373-374
Ignore the Lizard Man and walk on? ~=Tum to 241
Greet the Lizard Man? Tum to 47
Attack the Lizard Man? Tum to 27
Backtrack and take the other fork of
the trail? Turn to 69
Backtrack and take the rope-bridge
route? Turn to 84
373

On the far side of the door that the apprentice emerged
from is his bedroom cum study with a spartan pallet
bed, a couple of simple chairs and a few basic furnish-
ings. You make a thorough search of both rooms, and
of the apprentice’s body. You come up with some
scraps of food (enough for 2 meals), 3 Gold Pieces and
an empty potion bottle. The bookcase holds some
arcane tomes which you can't decipher, and anyway
they’re too heavy to carry. Disappointed at this
meagre find, you return to the main passage. Now
will you:

Open the other door along the
passage if you haven't done so
before? Turn to 1§

Descend the stone steps? Turn to 56
Try to get through the screen of blue
light? Turn to 37

374
You retrieve your sword when it has cooled down and

consider what to do next. Will you:

375-376

Climb a tree and get some sleep? Turn to 276
Enter the right-hand barrow, if you

haven't already? Turn to 38
Enter the large central barrow? Turn to 59

375 —
Now you are battling the Master of Fire in hand-to-

hand combat, with an end to sorcerous meddling! You
should now deduct from the Master's STAMINA Score
any damage you have dlready inflicted upon him.

MASTER OF FIRE SKILL 11 STAMINA 17

If you win, tum to 326.

376

You drag your weary legs up what seems like an
endless procession of steps leading to the very top of
the lighthouse tower. In a bright, airy chamber at the
top there is a spinning glass globe close to the roof,
but no light radiates out from it. If you know an
Incantation of Light, turn to the paragraph with the
same number as the flecks of light in the Magic Stone
you carry, If you don’t have a Magic Stone, you may
be able to return here if you find it later. For now,
though, there's nothing you can do here, so you leave;
you can descend to the wreck in the bay below if you
haven't already done so (turn to 291), investigate the
trapdoor downstairs if you haven’t done so already
(turn to 261), or leave here and find somewhere else
on the island to visit (turn to 70).

377-379

377

The writing desks have been tidied up very conscien-
tiously, Unblemished vellum, vials of rare inks and
guills are there aplenty, but no writing or notes, nor
any clues as to what has been happening to the
wizards. Rifling through one of the desks. however,
you must Test your Skill. lf you fail, your hand is
slashed by a blade trap; deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA. If you are successful, you manage to avoid
the trap. Now return to r1o and choose an option you
haven't selected before,

378
You hit out as best you can against this force of
magical energies. Your sword glints and gleams within
the barrier of howling wind and stone. and you try to
strike against the core of magical force within the

room,
ELEMENTAL VORTEX SKILL 9 STAMINA 14

This is a perilous combat. If the Vortex has an Attack
Strength of a1 in an Attack Round, you will be swept
off your feet, and you will struggle to get in a telling
blow in the next Attack Round {you must subtract 2
from your Attack Strength in that following round). If
you win, turn to Qt.

379
You run out of the monastery. Roll one die and halve
the number rolled, rounding fractions up: this is the
number of hits you take from the Elemental as you
flee. Each hit drains your stamina of 2 points. If you

KN

380-381

are still alive, the magical guardian doesn’t pursue you
outside the building. Will you now head:

North-eastwards to the lighthouse, if

you haven't been there before? Turn to 333
West to the woodlands, if you

haven't been there? Turn to 57
South-west to a grassy hillock? Turn to 186
South-west towards some marshland

in the distance? Turn to 6

380

You are standing inside a small, bare chamber which
you guess must be a quadrant within the circular
tower. In one wall there is a door which is slightly
ajar, and in the chamber beyond you can see a circular
stone staircase, leading both up the tower and down
to the dungeons. In that chamber some sacks, rags,
scraps of wood and other debris lie scattered about.
Entering the chamber, wil] you:

Search through the debris? Turn to 92
Take the staircase up? Tum to 316
Take the staircase down? Turn to 2

381
Without your having to force it, the black door opens
easily into a passageway, along which you set out,
treading carefully to avoid traps, There is a door in
front of you, at the point where the passage curves to
the left, and you can just make out that this passage-
way ends at another door. Will you:

382

Leave this passage and check
elsewhere in the dungeon?
Open the door directly ahead of

you? Turn to 185
Open the door along the left-hand
section of passage?

Turn to 23

Tum to 252

382
In forcing the chest open, you also trigger a vicious
trap: a cutting blade springs out from below the lock
and slices deeply into your forearm and wrist. Yelping
with pain, you clasp your bleeding swordarm: lose 3
points from your STAMINA.

Inside the chest is the Captain’s cutlass; this Magic
sword will add z to your Attack Strength when it is
used during combats. There is also a pouch containing
7 Gold Pieces, and a shield. Now will you:

Search the forward hold, if you

haven't done so before? Turn to 85
Study the magical symbol, if you
haven't done this already? Turn to 97

Leave the ship and return to shore? Turn to 272

383-384

383

You have entered the Master of Water's massive
alchemical laboratory. It is a truly amazing sight! The
room must measure hundreds of square meires in size,
with a ceiling at least eight metres above your head.
There are several workbenches, shelves upon shelves,
jars and alchemical equipment, a huge sealed vat, a
chest and much else. You make a cautious inventory
of the range of materials here and decide that the
following objects may be worth closer scrutiny: four
floating glass globes with coloured gases inside, two
green and two red; the vat, which gives off an acrid,
foul smell; a central work-table with many sealed vials
and potions; a small table with oils and unguents; and
a chest. Among the otherwise dirty apparatus there
are also two clean glass bottles which you can take,
should you want them. You must consume a meal
here during your extensive search. If you want to
explore further, turn to §8. If you think better of it
and decide to search elsewhere in this dungeon level,
turn to 106.

384
The trail now splits, forking south-west and south-
east. Overhead, you notice a series of interwoven
vines in the leaf canopy forming a rope-bridge of sorts
and leading directly south. It would be a lot cooler up
there than it is down here, and the sweat mmning off
your body lets you know that the heat and humidity
are already beginning to weaken you. Which route
will you take now? Will you:

385-386

Take the south-western trail? Turn to 69
Take the south-eastern trail? Turn to 372
Climb up tu the rope-bridge? Tur to 84

385

This door is locked. You can try to force it open if
you wish, To do so, roll two dice then add 2 to the
total. If the resulting number is less than, or equal to,
your SKILL, you succeed in opening the door. If that
number is greater than your skILL, you don’t open it,
but you can try again: You can repeat this procedure
as many times as you like, but note down how many
attempts you have to make before you succeed. If you
open the door, turn to 250. If you prefer not to force
the door open, will you:

Open the other door along the passage,
if you haven't already done so? Tum to 15

Descend the steps? Turn to 56
Try to get past the screen of blue
light? Turn to 37

386
‘Their leader was the Master of Waters. It was he who
began tampering with undead creatures at first, but
only in an idle way. His deputy, the Master of Fire,
was the one who brought down the great spirit into
the dungeons. It has possessed him now. He slew the
Master of Waters. I cannot speak their names, magic
cast over me forbids it. My own master, Remishaz,
Master of Air, was not evil, but he was intrigued by
spirits and undead from the Magical Planes, especially

387-388

the Ethereal Plane, and I'm afraid he did dabble a little
He argued with the Master of Earth, who animated
undead from the ground, and they slew each other
They still live on as spirits, warring down there in the
dungeons, I still don’t understand why their disagree-
ment became so violent in the end. Until they’re at
peace, the great spirit possessing the Master of Fire
cannot be destroyed. Looking back, it was meddling
with the undead that brought them all to disaster. . ’
Return to 48.

387
After wading back to land, where will you go? Will
you head for:

The barren moortand to the east? Turn to go
The distant lighthouse? Turn to 333
The southern woodland? Tum to §7

The hill in the middle of the island? Tum to 186

388
You throw open the door to a wizard’s lair. The room
is decorated in greys and browns and has a stony, cold
atmosphere. The furnishings are basic in the extreme,
only a granite statue of a wizard providing any decora-
tion. You feel a sudden chill along your spine as the
room seems to grow colder, and you see the ghostly
figure of a grey-haired old man manifesting at the
other end of the room. He is robed and shrouded, and
his piercing eyes look right into yours as his lips draw
back in a snarl. He raises his wraith-like hands and
begins to chant — he may be a spirit, but he can still

389-490

cast spells! If you think you know his name and want
to talk to him, turn to 362. If you wish to attack him,
turn to 44. If you prefer to flee from the spirit, turn

to 134.

Staying to fight is not a wise decision. You are
surrounded by a whole group of Skeletons, and a
second wave is assembling to attack even as you are
engaged in fighting the first. Because of the imperfec-
tions in their creation, your weapon will do full damage
to these Skeletons, but you have to fight each group
as if it were a single monster here, and there are
enough of them to make this a really tough combat.
Fight the first group and, if you survive, fight the
second group afterwards.

SKILL STAMINA
First SKELETON GROUP 9 10
Second SKELETON GROUP 7 9

If you win, turn to 34.

390
You press on towards your final destination on Solani
Island under a threatening grey sky. You pass whorled
mounds of cracked, dry, white ash which are whipped
up by the wind and blow in your face. If you have
Lung Rot, you must lose 2 points from your STAMINA
for breathing in some of this ash. Then you notice
several clumps of a very odd succulent plant with victous
axehead-shaped spiked leaves. If you have a herbiary
which tells you about the Axeplant, tum to the para-

391-393

graph with the same number as the page in the book
which describes it. f you don’t have this book, tum to
124.

391

The acid splashes all over the body of the wizard, and
he shneks as it burns into his flesh; he loses 4 points
from his STAMINA (make a note of this). Now, as he
marshals himself for a final spell-casting effort, you can
run at him with a weapon (turn to 39) or use a crystal
or diamond in some way (tum to 25). Alternatively, if
you have a Brass Orb and wish to use it, you may do
so; you know the number of the paragraph where you
found the Orb, so double it and turn to the paragraph
with the same number.

392
As soon as the pentagram is disturbed, an ominous
gtinding sound comes from beneath the landing, and a
pillar of earth and stones erupts through the wood-
work, smashing it into splinters and flying fragments.
Lose 1 point from your STAMINA because of the cuts
and abrasions you suffer from sharp splinters of wood
and flying stones. You are faced with a hostile Earth
Elemental here! If you want to fight it, tum to 264. If
you prefer to flee, turn to 379.

393

You wake up and look about you; you're ravenous,
and you must eat a meal now. You see before you an
expanse of blasted and barren plain, dust and rock; to
the south a black tower rises, stark and forbidding. In
394

the far west, across the plain, there is a bay, and that
just might be a building of some kind far to the west
across the plain, although you cannot be sure from
here. Will you make for the black tower (turn to 334)
or set off westwards across the plain (turn to 20x)?

You ask the hermit about the undead on the island.
‘Those blasted wizards,’ he cries. ‘All their doing!
Played with the forces of life, you see, so they thought
they could play with dead things. They’d changed the
life forces and bodies of things in the swamps, but
altering wasn’t enough, oh no. They dredged up the
dead from the sea bed. They just used them as slave
labour at first — cheap, economical to use, never
needed sleep, didn’t complain about poor wages or
being worked too hard, But then one of them started
experimenting with other undead, not just mindless
things, and he got his elementalist and necromantic
magic mixed up, and played with souls and spirits and
evil things with minds, cunning and guile. Oh yes, I
know I'm as mad as a hatter, but I’m not thaf insane.
The Master of Fire dabbled with summonings beyond
even his power, He drew down one of the Great
Undead, the immortal spirits of darkness, and then the
full horror began...’ The hermit falls sitent. Now you
can ask him about two (and only two) other topics
before he grows too distracted and crazy to talk
coherently and runs off into the forest. Turn to two of
the paragraphs from the list below which will tell you
about the subjects you want to know more about (you
will be sent back to this paragraph to make your

395-396

second choice). When you've made two choices, tum
to 168.

Curing diseases. Turn to 107

More about the wizards. Turn to 129
Other people on the island. Turn to 156
The marshlands, Tum to 183
General help and advice. Turn to 331

395
The apprentice is not skilled with a weapon, but he

can use a few spells effectively. For the first two
Attack Rounds, if he has the higher Attack Strength he
will cast a magical dart spell which inflicts 3 points of
damage to your STAMINA. After that, he will fight
with his dagger, which inflicts only x point of damage
if he hits you.

WIZARD'S APPRENTICE = skitt8 = STAMINA 9

If you win, turn to 373.

You put your foot through o rotted part of the timbers
and fall heavily, twisting an ankle; deduct 2 points
from your STAMINA, At the same time your backpack
gets soaked and some dirty seawater, contaminated by
wood-vamish, gets into your food; lose 2 Provisions.
Cursing your ill-fortune, you wander around to see
what you can find. Turn to 145.

397

You descend the stairs for what seems an eternity,
sweating in the increasing heat of the air that rises
towards you from the dungeons of the Master of Fire.
Your hair sticks to your scalp and your hand resting
on the hilt of your sword. grows moist: but at last you
see before you a single door on the landing at which
the stairs terminate. You have no choice but to fling it
open, and you stand in the doorway, gazing open-
mouthed at a bizarre chamber beyond. The floor is
slightly concave, as is the ceiling, and a forest of red-
veined, stony, rib-like protrusions litter them both.
The walls glow red, and in the centre of the chamber
stands a motionless undead creature which looks like
the skeletal result of some dreadful splicing-together
of various creatures. A human torso and arms are
topped by a Lizard Man’s head and neck; but the
powerful legs the thing stands on look like those of a
great horse, and the skeletal tail of the monster ends in
a bony spike. The monstrosity is armed with a barbed
bone hook which it is holding in front of it, and now it
is moving towards you, cutting an are through the air
as if with a scythe. You must fight the Skeletal Mutant
before you can progress any further.

SKELETAL MUTANT SKILL 9 STAMINA 12

If you win, you can see doors on either side of the
room, in addition to the one you entered by, Will you
open:

The door to your right? Turn to 146
The door to your left? Turn to 211

398-399

The door ahead of you?

Turn to 410

398
Going through the doorway, you set off down a
passage into a warren of rooms where the junior
monks lived. Each room is tiny and contains only a
hard pallet bed, a simple chair and one or two small
omaments. Will you:

Spend some time searching the
individual rooms?"

Return to the main passage and leave
the building?

Return to the main passage and open
the door opposite, if you haven't

Turn to 243

Turn to 28x

done so before? Tum to 180
Head along the main passage towards
the T-junction? Tum to 1§4

You find a secret door, very carefully concealed, at the
end of the tunnel; you push it open, to discover a long
passageway lit by magical light. At the far end is a
door which opens, revealing a stone staircase leading
up into the tower itself; but you have a strong intuition
that what you seek lies in the dungeons, not upwards.
Directly to your right is another door, this one closed;
the passage ends in a screen of blue light you can’t see
through. To your left the passage ends in a doorway
and alongside you is a set of stone steps which leads
downwards. Will you:

4oo
Open the door to your right? Tum to 15
Open the door at the end of the
passageway? Turn to 385
Descend the steps? Turn to §6
Try to pass the screen of light? Tum to 37
400

At the final, fatal lunge of your sword, the Dire
Spectre shrieks its dismay and its form dissipates into
nothingness. You scarcely have time to assemble your
thoughts before the Ethereal Oil wears off and you
find yourself standing once more in the chamber of
the Master of Fire. The magical fre has gone out now,
the Black Skeleton is but a pile of bones, and across
the room you can see a treasure chest, which may well
possess gold, magical artefacts and perhaps more still.
lt remains for you to get out of these dungeons, and
the way home may well be hazardous indeed, but,
after what you've been through, you think you are
going to make it.

More Fighting Fantasy in Puffin

THE TROLLTOOTH WARS

Steve Jackson

It started with an ambush, When Balthus Dire’s bloodlusting Hill
Goblins mount their raid on the Strongarm caravan, little do they
realize what dramatic consequences their actions will have. For that
caravan carries Cunnelwort, a mystical herb fom Eastern Allansia,
destined for none other than the evil sorceror, Zharradan Marr! War
— between two forces well-matched for evil — is soon to ensue .. -
Will Balthus Dire’s chaotics or Zharradan Marr's undead prove vic-
torious? The answer is here, in the first Fighting Fantasy novel.

DEMONSTEALER
Mare Gascoigne

It started with a burglary. Borne aloft on the back of an immense
bat, a sinister thief breaks into the tower of the sorcerer Yaztromo,
Guided by long-dead voices, he manages to make off with an
ancient scroll whose secrets could spel! doom and destruction for all
Allansia!

Chadda Darkmane is soon on the trail of the thief. But as the quest
grows ever longer, his nagging doubts about the power of sorcery
turn into nightmares. The trail leads far beyond northern Allansia, to
the Pirate Coast and the twisting alleyways of Rimon, where
Darkmane’s nightmares become flesh! For the thief has used the
ancient scroll to summon others to help him in his sorcerous task,
Demons who are not bound by the constraints of earthly forms ~
who feast on the human spirit

A few brave companions accompany Darkmane, but will they be
enough — and in time — to stop the thief from unlocking the final
secret of Yaztromo’s scroll? Derionstealer, the second Fighting
Fantasy novel in a series that began with The Trofltooth Wars, holds
all the answers

OUT OF THE PIT
Fighting Fantasy Monsters

Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone

From the darkest comers, from the deepest pools and from the
dungeons thought only to exist in nightmares come the Fighting
Fantasy monsters — the downfall of many a brave warnor Two
hundred and fifty of these loathsome creatures from the wild and
dangerous worlds of Fighting Fantasy are collected here — some are
old adversaries, many you have yet to meet — each of them de-
scribed in minute detail An indispensable guide for Fighting
Fantasy adventurers!

TITAN
The Fighting Fantasy World

You met the monsters in Ouf of the Pit - now meet the rest of the
Fighting Fantasy world! No adventurer should be without this es-
senhal guide. [t contains everything you need to know, covering
the turbulent history of the world, from its creation and early civiliz-
ations — through the devastating War of the Wizards — to the
present-day wilderness and anarchy where the delicate balance be-
twen Good and Chaos could at any moment be overturned

Advanced Fighting Fantasy

DUNGEONEER
Mare Gascofgne and Peter Tamlyn

Now you and your friends can create your own fantasy movies!
Imagine that you are the director and your friends are the cast of
heroes, Will you send them to battle with the evil wizerd or recover
the Dragons’ hoard? The chalce Is yours, and Dungeoneer makes the
exciting world of fantasy role-playing accessible in a thoroughly
user-friendly manner.

BLACKSAND!
Marc Gascoigne and Pete Tamlyn

Sprawling like the corpse of some glant creature, Port Blacksand is a
festering den of pirates and brigands. Unforeseen dangers lurk
around every street comer and in every dark alleyway. Devious
plots and crimes and hatched in every tavern. Thieves and assassins
slip through the shadows. Ancient mysteries lurk in the cellars and
sewers. But the infamous City of Thieves is also home to excitement
and adventure beyond compare!

The secand yolume at the Advanced Fyhting Fantasy serles wich
started with Dwrgeoneer,

FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS

Over 13 million copies sold worldwide!

Ancient evil has come to Solani Ist: ind!

The mysterious sorecrers of Solani Island have

protected the local poople from danger for many

years, Now, it s¢ems, their power has been

usurped. An evil force halds sway across thé

land, an evil that seems to hold the
power over life and death itself!

A hero is urgently needed to journey to Solant

Island and discover what has happened to the

wizards, Dare YOU he that adventurer? Wha

knows what terrible fate awaits -you on the

island where death rules? There is only one way

to find aut Are YOU brave enough to solve
the mystery of Solani Island?

FIGHTING FANTASY —THE WORLD'S MOST”
POPULAR ADVENTURE GAMEBOOK SERIES:

!

Cover Wustraiin In) Terry Oke

ISBN G-14- eee é

780140 56257 ¢ |

a JACKSON *:
LIVINGSTONE

